
Wednesday, September 6, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 13 Tl IE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
We Want You! 
The League of Black Business Students (LBBS) here introduces itself to a likely new member at Activites Night last night. 
Event urges biking to campus 
Organizers stress environmental, health benefits 
By AMY SIEGEL 
News Writer 
If you thought the bike racks at DeBartolo were crowded al­ready, things are about to get a lot more interesting. That is if the Pedestrian and Bikeways Committee of the Faculty Senate finds success with its inaugural event, Bike-to-Cam­pus. 
Held this morning, Bike-to­Campus was an event planned by this committee, in con­junction with Notre Dame Se­curity, Human Resources, Food Services and the RecSports Department, to encourage the staff and faculty of Notre Dame to trade their cars in for bicy­cles to make the daily com­mute. 
The event is intended as an experiment in the health and environmental benefits of low­tech travel. 
"We're looking for the casual rider who will try it, and then turn into a serious rider," said committee member Pete Shaw, of the Office of University Computing. 
This morning participants found convenient and safe bike parking in a special bike corral set-up in South Quad, as well as a chance to freshen-up at the Rockne Memorial and Joyce Center shower facilities. A breakfast of bagels and juice, as well as a drawing for a free bike helmet also highlighted the event. 
The Pedestrian and Bikeways Committee was formed two years ago, with the mission to promote cycling as a non-mo­torized, non-polluting, means of recreation and transportation for the general public. 
The committee hopes to pro­mote an understanding of cycling as a viable alternative in travel and, thereby, educate the non-cycling community to the legitimacy of such travel. 
Another challenge will come as the group looks to contact city and county officials, as well as University administration, regarding the need to increase safety and convenience for bicyclists along major routes of travel and on campus itself. It is with these goals in mind that the committee first began plan­ning this event back in March. 
Inspired by the National Bike­to-Work event held annually in March and April, the committee felt such an event could show real benefits for the Notre Dame community, as well. 

This experiment will provide important data for the com­mittee and give them ammuni­tion when they approach the local government officials and University administration re­garding bicycle travel around Notre Dame. 
The first step is demonstrat­ing to the local government and University officials that faculty and staff truly want reliable ways to campus by bicycle . 
If it can find this type of sup­port from the Notre Dame com­munity, the committee can then encourage government officials to widen road shoulders, mark bicycle lanes, as well as other safety measures needed for safe cycling, said Shaw. 
This support would also give the group legitimacy as they ask Notre Dame itself to pro­vide safe parking for bikes and convenient shower facilities located near academic build­ings and offices. 
"Cycling is an activity l enjoy so much, I am very excited that our committee has the chance to promote it to the University 
see BIKE I page 6 

• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Council aims for affordable graduate student health care 
By KEVIN DEWAN and tives from each of the graduate year's council discussed a list of health care value by September another major concern for the MAITHEW LOUGHRAN departments. goals at last night's meeting. 25. The suggestions will con­GSU. Travel grants are grants News Writers This year's council features a First and foremost, it wants tain a variety of options for the that are half paid by the gradu­new administration. Serving as to pass a more affordable graduate students to consider. ate schools and half paid by the 
The Graduate Student Council president this year is Joseph health care program for gradu­The issue of living conditions GSU. They are used for ex­(GSC), the representative body Manak, a sixth year graduate ate students. Presently, each of thw married graduate stu­penses incurred by graduate that governs the actions of the student in Physics. Aiding student pays $4000 for general dents was also discussed at the students when traveling to con­Graduate Student Union (GSU), Manak this year is his vice coverage and $1200 more for meeting. According to the ferences across the country. ushered in the new school year president Beth Caniglia, a sec­coverage of their spouse or Manak/Caniglia platform, The GSC is attempting this with their first official meeting ond year graduate in the child. But the end result is that "University Village married stu­year to obtain more money for last night. Sociology department. most of these spouses and chil­dent housing is in a state of dis­these grants. The deadline for 
Meeting once a month to re­Aiming to improve the quality dren are not covered in an repair and neglect." The coun­student Travel Grant applica­solve issues pertinent to the of life for Notre Dame graduate effort to save money. cil debated heavily for improve­tions for the fall semester is graduate community, the students and to increase in­The GSC plans to release ments to the community. Council contains representa-volvement in the GSU, this their suggestions of improved The Travel Grant Program is see GSU I page 6 
Off-cantpus transition made easy 
"He basically told us, on the spot, that if we wanted it, it was ours. He was really relaxed about the whole thing. He never discouraged us to have parties because that is his biggest form of advertisement." 
Ironically, all six of the women, who signed the lease in October of last year, had al­ready been at one party or an­other in what was formally called the "Zep House." 
Their new home has six bed­rooms, two bathrooms, a living room, a dining room, a base­ment, not to mention their own personal volleyball court. 
"We each have are own bed­room, which is key," said Weppner. "Of course, the house is harder to maintain than the dorm, but if you pick up things every day it works out for itself." 

Each member of the house pays 180 dollars a month plus utilities, which, by most college The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 
These six Saint Mary's women, who have moved to the former "Zep 
see HOUSE/ page 6 

House," enjoy their new, off-campus living situation. 

Six SMC seniors find a home away from dorm 
BY JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
Katie Weppner, Kali Loester, Erin O'Donnell, Jenny Bass, Al­lison Casciari, and Sheila Roth decided to move off campus their senior year. Since Cam­pus View, Turtle Creek and College Park could not accom­modate six people living to­gether in a single apartment, the Saint Mary's students knew they wanted a house, but they did not know how to approach this venture. 
After their experience in re­cent months, these women can oiTer advice on what it means to lease a house off-campus. 
According to Weppner, knowing a person who lives in the house you like is a good reference in leasing the house the following year. 
Weppner did not know any­one she could depend on, so she and her friends used the renter's page in the phone book and contacted a landlord. 
He directed Weppner to another landlord who even­tually leased the six women their house. 
At least three other students interviewed for their house, ac­cording to O'Donnell, who along with the other five women, met with the landlord in order to become acquainted. In the interview, the landlord asked simple questions such as, "What is your major?" and "Where are you from?." 
"I don't remember being ner­vous," said O'Donnell. "We dressed appropriately, like we would have if we were in a job interview. Then we just acted like ourselves." 
The landlord must have ap­proved of their standards, Weppner said. 
-----, 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 6, 1995 
• WOIU.D AT A GLANCE
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Dude, I can feel the music 
Dangerous hurricane roars into Caribbean 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico 

Howling "like a million ghosts," a monstrous hurricane roared into the Caribbean today, killing a French tourist and bending palm trees double even before it hit land. 
Frightened tourists and islanders crowded airports and overwhelmed air charter companies. But several airports closed Monday evening. 
As Hurricane Luis zeroed in on Puerto Rico today, the governor of the 
U.S. territory went on television to tell island residents not to panic and that they could seek refuge in schools, which were closed for the day. 
"Be calm, but be prepared," Gov. Pedro Rossello said. 
The National Weather Service said the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico "will feel the full force of the hurricane" today and Wednesday. The National Guard was on alert in both U.S. territories. 
In Guadeloupe, waves as high as nine feet swept a 29-year-old French tourist from a jetty where he was try­ing to photograph the sea. He drowned while the edge of the hurri-
Hurricane Luis 
Luis
Atlantic 
Conditions as ofOcean Tuesday 8 a.m. EDT 
cane was more than 100 miles away. 
With confirmed wind gusts up to 160 mph, and a 60-mile-wide eye that is bigger than any of the islands it is lashing, Hurricane Luis threatens even more devastation than Hurricane Hugo in 1989. 
As the storm bore down today on Barbuda, a tiny island of 1,400 peo­ple, wind gusts of at least 146 mph knocked out U.S. wind measuring instruments on neighboring Antigua, 25 miles to the south. There was an unofficial report of gusts up to 17 5 mph on Antigua. 
"It's like a million ghosts howling outside," said Jackie Butler, a Briton who teaches in Davie, in South Florida. 
Butler, 35, got caught while vaca­tioning with her husband and five children, including their 2-month-old daughter. 
The 700-mile-wide Luis is following in Hugo's path, according to meteo­rologist Scott Stripling. At 9 mph, it was lumbering west, menacing islands from Dominica in the east to Puerto Rico. 


Music has the power to unite even the oddest of all crowds. I had always known this ­just look who generally attended the Grateful Dead concerts (RIP Jerry). However, I real­ly only came to experi­


ence this phenomena Margee Hwemann 
this summer. 

Associate Viewpoint I've always been pas-Editor sionate about my music,-------­but this past summer I did something that is exceptionally odd for me. I attended, not one, but two concerts. For a person who last found a worthy concert to be Bryan Adams at Xavier University, my trips to Columbus and Chicago for concerts, was an eclectic experi­ence. You see, I'm not exactly a member of the sect of people who goes to a concert at the drop of a pin, much less one that I have barely heard. Nevertheless, I, with my best friend, made the trek to Newport Music Hall two days before my return to ND. We were going to see the Foo Fighters, a relatively unknown band fronted by former Nirvana drummer, Dave Grohl. I had only heard one song by the group, but the concert was only $10, and I figured that it would be a great way to end the summer. The hall was filled with an a wide array of people -preppy frat boys and scary women could pass for the leader of a coven. There was even this guy who believed that my friend and I were 25 and had been following the band for three years. The band had two opening bands who were · relatively decent, but, when the Foo Fighters came on, the night became truly exquisite. Truly, Dave and Pat (whose last name I will not mention for personal purposes), men I would usually find repulsive, became beauti­ful as they played (this also, I suppose, explains how Tom Petty could ever really make it big in a society based on beauty). I guess the music was even more amazing because of the small venue. Being less than ten yards away from the musicians, you could feel the energy coming in waves. It was almost as deafening as being that close to the speakers. I also attended, or, rather, experienced the Live concert last Thursday. I am a fan of Live, not one of those avid fans who believe that the band travels by foot and clears large bodies of water by walking across them, but one of those fans who thinks that "I Alone" is a really cool song and fun to dance to. The night in all of its coolness and waning light gave the concert an almost ethereal air. I was almost as far from the stage as PE is from Pangborn, but the music radiated all across the lawn. All of the people there ­from the. punks with safety pins in their noses and tattoos in designs I would never imagine to the punks who look like they still sported Huggies Pull-ups-moved back and forth in time. Even I had rhythm. When "Lightning Crashes," Live's song which has developed a coltish following, began to sound, the crowd became a vast field of stars as the entire assemblage flicked their Bics. It was an awesome sight. I guess I've been broken of that timidity to attend concerts. The experience of live music is unbelievable, as is the unlikely coalitions which bond in the common esperience. My future in concerts will probably be bound more by opportunity and fmances than by interest and drive. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Kennedy center honors King, others 
WASHINGTON 

B.B. King and Neil Simon, masters at capturing the emotions of everyday Americans on Broadway and in the blues, will receive Kennedy Center Honors for their contributions to the nation's culture. A fellow honoree is actor Sidney Poitier, known for some of the first popular film roles to explore seriously the lives of American 


blacks. Opera singer Marilyn Horne and ballet dancer Jacques d'Amboise complete the 18th group of artists honored by the Keimedy Center. Their lifetime work will be celebrated with a gala performance at the Kennedy Center on Dec. 3. It will be taped for broadcast early next year on CBS-TV. President Clinton plans to attend the show, and the honorees are invited to a White House re­ception earlier that evening. For the honorees, the fuss began quietly just over a week ago, with an express letter asking whether they would accept the award. "It's much like the Pulitzer Prize, a little telegram out of nowhere, and you never had a feeling it was coming," Simon, who won a Pulitzer for "Lost in Yonkers," said in a telephone interview from Los Angeles. 
Geneticists strive for a perfect steak 
VAN, Texas 

The Aggies are at work on the perfect cow. Texas A&M University is one of a handful of major labs con­ducting bovine genetic research that ultimately could create faultless beef filets. Researchers at the school are using Brahman and Angus cattle to identify genes associ­ated with beef quality, genetics Professor Jerry Taylor said. The work is similar to research done on human genes. But instead of the diseases commonly targeted in people, these geneticists are focusing on bovine traits such as coat color and marbling. Working with families of cattle produced at a ranch in Angleton, Taylor said sci­entists in the four-year-old program are using the DNA from about 500 cattle to construct genetic maps. "We take the map information on each animal, and it allows us to go into each chromosome and work out exactly the genetic architecture," he said. 
'Frisco' nets more time for escapees 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

If you want to walk the walk, you've got to talk the talk. Two escapees from a Utah prison blew their cover by breaking an unwritten local law on acceptable nick­names for San Francisco. Anthony Scott Bailey and Eric Neil Fischbeck both said they were from "Frisco" when questioned by University of California officers who found them sleeping on campus Monday. Use of the name ­loved by tourists but loathed by residents -set off the alarm bells that their prison break didn't. "No one from here ever says that," campus police Sgt. David Eubanks said. Pressed further about which schools they attended, one said he couldn't remember and the other said he never went to school. When one provided two alternate spellings for his purported last name, officers took them in, fingerprinted them and discovered their true, fugitive status. Bailey, 27, and Fischbeck, 21, had escaped Satur­day by crawling under a fence at a minimum-security prison in Bluffdale, about 20 miles south of Salt Lake City, authorities said. Four months away from parole, they now face up to 15 more years for escape, authorities said. "Anybody who escapes with that little time left can't be very smart," Utah corrections spokesman Jack Ford said. 
PC maker offers new fall colors 
NEW YORK 

Visit a computer store this fall and you'll see row after row of beige machines. Acer, a Taiwanese company, has become the first maker of personal computers to com­pletely forsake beige for the black that is popular in stere­os and TVs and a dark emerald that will blend into a den or breakfast nook. "I think it's probably the hottest story of the season," said Richard Zwetchkenbaum, personal computer analyst at International Data Corp., a research firm in Framingham, Mass. While PC makers say they are making their computers more like other consumer electronic equipment, none has gone as far as Acer in get­ting rid of the bland office look. "These products repre­sent what we see as our first step in an aligning of the personal computer and consumer electronics planets," said Marlene Williamson, vice president of marketing for Acer America, the company's U.S. subsidiary. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Wedne<iday, Sept. 6 Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 6. 

............... _._._ _,..a...­

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
ti...."i a ISS! 0 IZ3 E3 {) b u
[r!l 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T--S10RMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V"-..u.odat.ed Pres. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Jenny Kellogg  
Mark Huffman  Michael O'Hara  
Sports  Production  
Joe Villinski  Krisit Kolski  
Mike Day  Allison Fashek  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Angie Kelver  Brandon Candura  
Grant Epstein  Graphics  
Zoe Marin  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta 64 64 Dallas 64 61 New O~eans 64 68 Baltimore 88 60 Denver 76 56 New York 54 39 Boston 80 60 Los Angeles 96 72 Philadelphia 88 67 Chicago 73 65 Miami 90 79 Phoenix 106 64 Columbus 86 59 Minneapolis 62 54 St. Louis 83 69 
Wednesday, September 6, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Haggar renovated 
By LORI ALLEN 
News Writer 
Haggar College Center, known to many on the Saint Mary's campus as the "snack bar," will soon undergo renova­tions to make the center much more appealing to students, ac­cording to Sarah Sullivan, stu­dent body president. 
The well-known, yet often va­cant, snack bar will be redone in navy, green and plaid with brand new carpet and match­ing drapes. 
Structurally, however, no changes other than the reposi­tioning of tables and chairs will be made. A large screen televi­sion with ·cable was installed last semester and was received favorably by the students. 
"Traffic in and out of Haggar heavily increased once cable was installed," said Georgeanna Rosenbush, direc­tor of Student Activities. 
With an intent to include campus culture, Sullivan and her staff are currently working with the Board of Goverance to determine whether the atmo­sphere of the college center should be historical. 
This project, Sullivan pointed out, is a carryover from the previous administration. The new "Snack Bar" will be equipped with a more diverse dining menu thanks to the posi­tive response the Marriott food chain representatives gave to students' suggestions. 
"I definitely think that this is a good idea," said Saint Mary's Junior Leecia Anderson. "Haggar should be more like LaFortune at Notre Dame where people can hang out and feel comfortable," 
Sullivan and her staff antici­pate the changes to be made during Fall Break, and they are looking into contractors for that week. 
"After the changes, I feel like Haggar will be our real student union. It won't just be a place to grab a snack before class, but it will be a place where stu­dents can meet and talk or study," said Leslie Field, Board of Governance Notre Dame stu­dent representative. 
"We're hoping that Saint Mary's students will see Haggar as their own-a place to relax and hang out in," Sullivan said. "We want this to be a place where people can go to be together and have fun." 
Send your lunch abroad! 
FAST TO END HUNGER 

Join the 800+ students who fast every Wed. to help fight world hunger. Over $7000 raised last semester!! Sign up in the dining hall today (9/6) or co morrow (9/7) or call Amy 4-2992. Leave your name and ID number. 

Re~~Y t~ hit the hardware? 
TheObseNeriBrandoocandura 
At Act1v1t1es N1ght yesterday, the Notre Dame Computing Club's booth explained to potential members what role the club plays in the Notre Dame community. 
• HALL PRESIDENTS CouNCIL 
''Coaches'' enliven Council 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
In an attempt to increase ticket sales, the actors from "Coaches" gave a surprise sneak preview to the Hall Presidents' Council at their weekly meeting last evening. 
"Coaches" is a play by Buddy Farmer and will raise money for the Ara Parseghian Memo­rial Research Foundation. 
Knute Rockne, portrayed by Herb Mitchell, ran into the room screaming, "Get up! We have to go out and play foot­ball." He then continued with a short monologue about the infamous speeches he used to give to his team before a game. 
The other characters of Vince Lombardi, Paul "the Bear" Bryan and Priscilla Smith also made appearances to HPC by performing excerpts from the play. 
Mitchell asked the HPC at the end of the skit to spread the word about the sale of tick­ets. 
"This is for a definite good 



7:15PM 
STANFORD -KEENAN 
CHAPEL 

ALL WELCOME 
cause because all the proceed­ings go to the medical founda­tion, and we are not selling as many tickets as we would like to. So please tell people to come to the play. We would love to see you there," said Mitchell. 
The play runs from Thurs­day, September 7 through Sat­urday, September 9 at Wash­ington Hall. Tickets are $10 for students and can be pur­chased at LaFortune Student Center. For more information contact Tom Barkus. 
Samantha Mangiaforte, the representative for Saint Mary's, spoke at HPC about the continuing efforts of Saint Mary's to instill a system of big brother/sister dorms between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
"We have been doing our side of things. Dorm representatives should be con­tacting you to come to your hall meetings. We are doing our part, so hopefully you are too," Mangiaforte said. 
Kristin Beary, co-president of HPC, announced that a cam­pus improvement committee and a budget committee are the two committees HPC will have for the 1995-96 year. 
Matt Schlatter, co-president of HPC, demanded that possi­ble dates for upcoming SYRs and formals be turned in last night so that Beary and Schlatter can determine a schedule for all dances. 
In an attempt to limit dances to six SYRs per night, Beary and Schlatter wanted the dates early to avoid scheduling prob­lems. The hall presidents will be informed today about their dorm's dates. 
Depending on the activities they plan, each dorm will have the opportunity to win the monthly "Rockne Award." 
This month's judging period lasts from the beginning of the school year through September 30. The hall presi­dents of each dorm submit information chartering the dorm's activities, and then HPC votes to decide the winner of the award. 



The Department ofMusic University Artist Series 
presents 

atherine 
. . k . mezzo-soprano
testns 1 
with {jjerald f5teichen piano 
2:00p.m. Sunday, 10 September Annenberg Auditorium 
Tickets available at tile door or call (219) 631-6201. $5 general admission $2 for students/senior citizens. 
Register in Advance at RecSports The fee is $8.00 and Space is Limited Helmets are Required Depart Library Circle at 10:00 Return to Library Circle at 5:00 
R-.~ 
Wednesday, September 6, 1995 
page4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

Notre Dame football game with you? 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students will now be able to trade thei student football admissiontickets lor GENERAL ADMISSION tickets during the I995 season. 
Bring a friend to watch 
the Irish VICTORY over The Irish TROUNCE 

Texas
~~ 
1ACTION 10 m 
the Irish UPSET and the Irish NIX
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
" 
. . .


USC Nav.y
'·""' >• "h.( ,.,.:,!> 

~~-/ TO EXCHANGE A TICKET: 
*The student exchanging a ticket must visit the Joyce Center Ticket Office during business hours on Monday through Wednesday the week of the game for which the student requires a GENERAL ADMISSION ticket. 
*The student must present their own personal student ticket signed in ink in the designated area and a corresponding Notre Dame or St. Mary's student identification card. 
*The .ticket for that week's game will then be removed from the booklet and the sudent will be presented with a replacement GENERAL ADMISSION ticket for the same seat. 
*The student will then be charged the difference between the face values of the 
tickets ( an additional 50%) . 
*Since there is a limit to the number of student tickets which can be exhanged for each game, the ticket office will exhange tickets on a first come-first served basis. 
*Restrictions regarding the resale of either student tickets or the exchanged 
tickets remain the same as in the past. 
If you have absolutely any questions or comments about how this works or what you need to do, please call Stu­dent Government at 631-7668, or contact Student Gov­ernment by e-mail at studegov.1 @ nd.edu. 



~-------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~ 
Wednesday, September 6, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Man posed as woman SMC showcases activities 
pleads guilty to fraud 
By ERIN MARTIN members. News Writer "This is the best time to get new club members because the 
Designed to provide a chance night is well-attended. If even for students to talk and meet half of the people who signed with members of over seventy up for a club actually end up clubs and organizations, the participating within the year, Saint Mary's Activities Night the night can be considered a will be held tonight in Angela success," said Leslie Field, a Athletic Facility from 8 p.m. to Board of Governance represen­10'p.m. tative. 
Organizations from the South "Those organizations that Bend community will also be make the effort and take the present, allowing both Saint time to set up tables for this Mary's and Notre Dame stu­night are serious about recruit­dents to see where they can ing," she added. help in the community. The night is also designed for 
"Activities Night is a chance upperclassmen interested in to introduce students to what is getting involved on campus and out there and gives them a in the community. chance to pick and choose," Juniors Ashley Denniston and said Mary Udovich, the coordi­Cara Calcagno plan to attend in nator for the Student Activities order to find some volunteer Board. work to supplement their ma­
The night is primarily de­jors. signed for students, but it is Calcagno said that Activities also helpful for students in Night is also a great night to leadership positions. Leaders meet new people wandering of campus clubs and organiza­around. "My freshman year I tions can also look forward to met some friends at the Activi­Activities Night because it gives ties Night, and we joined the them a chance to recruit new ballroom dancing club. During those meetings, we met even more people," she said, adding that "It's important to do your schoolwork, but it's also impor­tant to get involved." 
The atmosphere at Activities Night is "low-pressure," according to Field. Students can get as involved as they wish. 
Students who are interested and who sign up for an activity are not obligated to participate in that club, but they will defi­nitely be called back if they leave their phone number, because in doing so, they showed that they were interest­ed and took the initiative to find out about the club. 
The variety of clubs repre­sented range from Adopt-A­Nun to the Italian Club to Shenanigans. The world of sports, science, multicultural affairs, and more is there for the taking. 
A host of chairpersons will be present to answer questions about club requirements, time commitments, and club poli­cies. 
By HilARY GROUTAGE 
Associated Press 
FARMINGTON, Utah 
A man who posed as a woman during a 3 1/2-year marriage pleaded guilty Tues­day to defrauding the unsus­pecting husband. 
Felix Urioste, 34, entered guilty pleas to one count of communications fraud and one count of forgery. 
He faces up to five years in prison and a $5,000 fine on each count at sentencing Oct. 
24. Judge Rodney Page ordered Urioste, free on $5,000 bail, to undergo a full psychological evaluation. 
Urioste, posing as a woman named Leasa, married Bruce Jensen in 1991. He was ar­rested in Las Vegas earlier this year after using credit cards is­sued in the name of Leasa Jensen. 
At the time, he was traveling as a man, and police had to break the news of his sexual identity to Jensen. 
Jensen, a 39-year-old medical lab technician who is described by authorities as naive, is seek­ing an annulment. Urioste has urged the judge to grant it. 
Prosecutors claim Urioste de­frauded Jensen of more than $40,000 in credit card and other expenses. 


The At Work Program® is coming to The University of Notre Dame! Enjoy all the convenience and benefits of the Weight Watchers program right on campus! 
Attend a FREE information meeting to find out more: 
Thursday, September 7 

12:00 ~  12:45 pm  Join us in a little  
Foster Room  healthy competition!  
LaFortune  

Faculty, Staff & Students are invited to participate! Contact Jessica Kapsa at 631~5829 for details! 
\01995 Weight Watchers and The AI Work Program are registered trade­marks of Weight Watchers International, Inc. All rights reserved 
Irish withdraw from summit 
Government asks for time to settle differences 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN, Ireland Pleading for a few days to settle differences with Britain, 





BREAKFAST CLUB 
Pre.-Game Party at Molly's! 

The Breakfast Club 
Saturday, September 9th, at 7:00 a.m. 
The kitchen will be open, as always. 
Business Hours Saturday: 7:00a.m.-3:00a.m. Sunday: Noon-!2:30a.m. 
306 West State Street 
746--5700 


the Irish government on Tuesday withdrew from a sum­mit intended to pave the way for Northern Ireland peace talks. 
The key issue was Britain's insistence that the Irish Republican Army make some commitment on disarmament before its allies in the Sinn Fein party could join all-party nego­tiations. Sinn Fein has rejected the demand. 

British Prime Minister John Major had planned to meet Irish Premier John Bruton at Chequers, Major's official coun­try residence near London. 
Those plans collapsed as civil servants from both govern­ments deadlocked on the pre­cise terms for talks and the Irish Cabinet agreed in Dublin that the summit would have to be postponed. 
"The purpose is to allow some more time to attempt to resolve outstanding differ­ences," said a statement from Bruton's office. 
Irish officials said they hoped the impasse could be resolved in a matter of days. 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Associate Accent Editor 
Those interested please submit two page personal personal statement and clips to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune. by Sunday at 2PM. Journalistic experience is required. 


-----~---~----~---~ ~---~~-­
Wednesday, September 6, 1995

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
House 
continued from page 1 
students' standards, is consid­ered affordable. 
If this is the case, then why do so many students live on campus? 
Some students may view a house as requiring more re­sponsibility. However, in this house, each person has agreed to pick up after herself and keep the additional room clean. The women also have to tilke car~ .of the lawn and shovel the driveway during the winter. 
And unlike the dorms, their are no other students living around them. "At first I was a little nervous about being alone," said O'Donnell. "But the more I stay, the more it feels like home." 
Not having a car is also a in­convenience. 
Only three out of the six have cars, but four out of the six are nursing majors and have similar schedules. 
Although a car may not be necessary, it is very practical. 
"I think there are things that students miss out on when moving off-campus," said Susie Orr, Director of Residence Life at Saint Mary's. "They are more likely to skip evening events, and they have to worry about such things as parking." 
O'Donnell uses the distance 
of her off-campus house to her 
advantage. "It's fun because 
you have the option of driving 
away from campus, and if you 
need to go back, you just hop 
in your car, and you are five 
minutes away." 
Living in a house most defi­
nitely has its perks, according 
to these women, who admit to 
only occasionally missing the 
convenience of campus life. 
"I think living off-campus 
your senior year is preparing 
yourself for the 'real world,'" 
O'Donnell said. 
But Orr disagreed. "When 
some people move off-campus 
it's really not the 'real world' 
because of the academic fea­
tures," she said. 
The majority of the women 
"Ohur Lady on 
t e Dome" As the river called "St. joseph" flows softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. Sarin founded a 
university 
or the glory of God's reign lie named it for "Our Mother" Notre Dame-Notre Dame 
...So begins a beautiful eight sta~za poem that belongs in every fan s home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed-makes a cher­ished gift. 
Send personal check or money order to: Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, LaGrange, IL 60525 
~ .!'~".:~!..o_~_z:_r£ !_ ~ee_ks for delivery.
iName ---------,
I ------------1 
lAddress l
I ----------------1 
•Ciry _______state __z·1p 1I 
I ---1 lNumber of poems@ 12.95* each I 
I --~ 
: Total -----!
! $2.50 Total S&H _____ : : Grand Total ____ -! L*$1.00 from each saie wiU be donated to l LI the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund I 1 
----------------------~ 
interviewed expressed the only reasons why they did not live off-campus was because of fi­nances and parental approval. 
According to Weppner, all of the women in her house had to talk their parents into letting them live in the house, but they were excited to show their parents how much they had done with it. 
"We painted, cleaned and scrubbed everything," said Weppner. "We were the first 
women  to  ever  rent  the  
house."  
The six  women  said that  

moving off-campus was worth the stress during the first months of school. Thinking about where you are going to live next year 12 months in advance seems a little eccen­tric. But, at least you do not have to deal with the frustra­tions of room picks in the spring. 
While few Saint Mary's stu­dents venture off and rent a house, these six women did. And now their on-campus friends are equally as happy because they have a place to go to at all times. 
"We feel unique," said Weppner. "I don't think any of us miss our dorms. We have no regrets about leasing a 

NASA prepares shuttle for possible retreat 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. 
Worried that Hurricane Luis could head this way, NASA prepared space shuttle Endeavour for a possible retreat from the launch pad that could cause another delay in the mission. 
With the countdown clock ticking toward a Thursday liftoff, the space agency will decide Wednesday whether to move the shuttle to the hangar for protection against Luis' damaging wind. That could delay the flight as much as a week. 
Even if the powerful hurri­cane avoids Florida's east coast, the chances of accept­able weather for the 11:09 
a.m. launch were put at only 40 percent. 
Endeavour had to be moved off its pad in early August for protection against the much weaker Hurricane Erin. 
The mission to release a pair of science satellites already is more than a month late because of repairs to 0­ring joints on the solid rocket boosters and because of an overheated power generator that forced NASA to scrub a launch attempt hours before liftoff last week. 
Rough seas from Hurricane Luis could also delay the flight. 
It's uncertain whether NASA would launch Endeavour if the shuttle's two solid rocket boosters could not be retrieved promptly from the Atlantic, said shuttle test director Bill Dowdell. 
Engineers want Endeavour's boosters back as soon as possible to analyze the repairs. 
The boosters peel away from the shuttle two minutes into flight and drop into the ocean. 
A leak in a booster joint caused Challenger to explode in 1986, killing all seven astronauts aboard. 
Bike 
continued from page 1 
as a whole," remarked Shaw. He also added that the commit­tee is planning another Bike­to-Campus event for April. 
In the interim, the committee will work to fulfill its goals and promote general bike aware­ness on campus. 
GSU 
continued from page 1 
September 15. Any late appli­cations will not be processed until January 15, 1996. 
The last item on the platform was the idea of increasing par­ticipation in GSU. 
Currently only half of the graduate students attend GSU functions. 
Some of the graduate departments have not had a representative for years. 
The GSC hopes to meet these goals over the course of the coming year, to be discussed again at their next meeting on October 3. 

e Dame Club 
hValley & Irish Sg present 
Mail to: 'Co:achm( Ticlcals • Washlnglon Hall, Univorsity of Noltt Damo, Notre D11me, IN 4655&. Mako ~backs payabla lo: Univarsity of Notre Dame 
:.:::1 Villa U Mastan:ard Card # ----~ 

~ ~·--•••··----~----···-· ••w••~M·-••···~~~-~···--~··--F.x-p. data---------­
mo 
City/Stale/Zip 

# --of tickets x $50 each = $.___total Performance: 0 Friday, Sepl 8 0 Saturday, Sept. 9 
Wednesday, September 6, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Whitewater charge thrown out
Top press officials ·indicted for conspiracy 
By E. SCOTT RECKARD news cable TV network. 
Assodated Press Brian and Berentson are ac~ cused of falsifying FNN's LOS ANGELES books to deceive banks, regu­
Two former top otllclals of lators and investors, using United Press International miUions of dollars from fraud· and Financial News Network ulent lease trans~ctions · were indicted Tuesday on keep the companies , ..ruru1uuv 1 charges of conspiring to con­and lying to their ceal the companies' poor accountant financial condition In the late scams.·· 1980s. 
Former UPI and FNN Chair· man Earl Brian and his chief operating officer, John the . Berentson, were accused in ;;,,comment. RA.1•An'tj;lm the 24-count indictment of ·ney,.. 'Mark ·.1wB 
lying to obtain $56 million in Berentson will ...,. ,...... . bank loans in 1989. charges. · . · > ...•· 
Brian headed In 1993. Brian settled lnfotechnology Inc., a New Securities and Exchange York company with control· Commission charges of inflat· ling interests in UPI. the Inter-ing FNN's revenues by mil~ 11ational wire service; and lions of dollars, with no 
FNN, a business and financial admission ofguilt. 
By JAMES JEFFERSON Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
A federal judge threw out a fraud indictment Tuesday against Gov. Jim Guy Tucker, ruling that the Whitewater prosecutor exceeded his au­thority in bringing the charges. Tucker still faces a more seri­ous set of charges brought by the prosecutor. 
Tucker, a Democrat, had been accused of obtaining a federally backed loan under false pretenses and trying to avoid taxes on the sale of a ca­ble television business. The loan was used by the cable business. · 
U.S. District Judge Henry Woods said the charges bore no resemblance to the matters Whitewater special prosecutor Kenneth Starr was assigned to investigate. 
Starr, appointed by a panel of federal appeals judges for the 
District of Columbia, had con-cable TV company in a bank­tended that Woods had no au-· ruptcy proceeding. thority to restrict the scope of Tucker still faces an 11-count his investigation, and Attorney indictment issued by the General Janet Reno had Whitewater grand jury Aug. 17. agreed. In that case, the governor, 
But the judge ruled other-James McDougal and Me-wise. Dougal's ex-wife, Susan, are 
"I cannot accept the proposi-accused of falsifying documents tion that a citizen can be put on to inflate property values. trial in my'court for a loss of his McDougal, former owner of liberty, and that no court has Madison Guaranty Savings and the power to determine Loan, and his former wife were whether there is jurisdiction to partners with President and proceed in the matter," the Hillary Rodham Clinton in the judge said. Whitewater Development Corp. 
from 1978-1992. 
Woods also threw out the Tucker has not yet challenged June 7 indictments of two those charges, which carry a Tucker co-defendants -his total of 55 years in prison and personal lawyer, John Haley, $2.75 million in fines. Neither and his business partner indictment directly involved the William Marks Sr. Whitewater land development 
In the June indictment, venture. Tucker and Marks are accused "The U.S. court said today of lying to get a $300,000 loan, clearly and explicitly that the and all three men are charged independent counsel was with conspiring to hide the wrong to do what he did. Just profits from the 1987 sale of a wrong," Tucker said. 












Rankinp each nation's ability to generate 
wealth 1n international markets. 
1 U.S.A. 2 Singapore 3 HongKong 

Fall Break Seminars 
October 15-20, 1995 Experiential/ Service Learning 
4 Japan 
5 Switzerland 6 Germany 7 Netherlands 8 New Zealand
Center for Social Concerns 
9 Denmark 10 Norway 11 Taiwan .:..<·•, 12 Canada 
.. . 
~·

13 Austria 
14 Australia 
15 Sweden
APPALACBITASEN.nNAR 

16 Finland 17 France 18 U.K. 19 Belgium/Lux.
Service learning at one of fifteen 

20 Chile 21 Malasla
sites in the Appalachian region 

22 Ireland 23 Israel 24 Korea 25 Iceland 26 Thailand 
Analysis of rural concerns 
One-credit Theology 

27 ElWPt 
28 Spain 28 Argenlln& 30 Italy 31 Portugal 
32 Peru 
33 lndoneelil 34 China 3& Phlllpplnaa 36 Colombia 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 

37 Brazil ;gy:;:t;_:;,~
Explore the cultural richness of Chicago 

: Czechf~.~
Examines issues of diversity and related concerns 
40 Turkey­41 Jordan .¥'? 775 
42 South Africa ­
One-credit Theology or Sociology 

43 Graece -:.";:~.:m~ 
44 Mexico-
Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs 
45 Poland-;~· ·.,:,,.fii~ 
46 Hungary­47 Venezuela -· · ,· .Y:.~.;i!l<.J 48 Russia • 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 

Please Recycle The Observer 
Theme: Welfare: Public or Private Responsibility? Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government 
Applications Due: Tomorrow Sept. 7, 1995 
All Seminars Return by Friday Evening, Oct. 20th 


page 8 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, September 6, 1995 
Drought threatens farmers in Northeast 
By KATHARINE WEBSTER 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
The leaves are falling from the trees without turning their usual brilliant reds and golds. Pumpkins are already turning orange -or withering on the vine. 
One of the worst droughts the Northeast has ever seen is wor­rying farmers and firefighters from Maine to New Jersey and leading to water restrictions in some communities. 
"Every day it doesn't rain we lose a pile of money. And look­ing at the weather reports, it may not rain for another week," said Scott Ellis, who has 750 acres of soybeans in New Jersey, where the drought is most severe. 
The dry July and August are tbreatening the eye-popping fo­liage changes and roadside farm stands that draw thou­sands of "leaf peepers" and other tourists to New England. 
"They're ripening very early," said pumpkin farmer Peter Gibney, of Danvers, Mass. "They're showing a lot of color right now that normally they don't." Farmers in New Jersey said pumpkins there were too small to sell. 
Rainfall throughout the Northeast is 8 to 16 inches be­low average this year. In some areas, the drought is setting records. Belfast, Maine, didn't have a drop of rain for 31 days. 
"It's probably the worst I've ever seen it, and I've been farming 40 years," said Roger Richardson, who farms 2,400 acres on Maryland's Eastern Shore. "We just haven't had any rain in August. The soy­beans are really taking it. In many spots they're drying in the field." 
In New Jersey, rainfall has been 30 percent to 40 percent below normal for the past 12 months, making it the second­driest September through Au­gust since 1896. 
In the Connecticut River Val­ley, where many farmers rely on rain rather than irrigation, "they'll lose some of their crops. They'll be done early. They'll be out of peppers, out of tomatoes," said Richard Bo­nanno, a farmer who heads the New England Vegetable and Berry Growers Association. 
"Even if you have the water, you're just fighting all the time to irrigate, irrigate, irrigate," he said. 
Betty Miller of Miller's Plant Farms in York, Pa., said irriga­tion saved her fruit from dehy­dration but not thirsty animals. "The crows and pheasants pick at the watermelons and can­taloupe to get the water," she said. 
Suburban gardeners are suf­fering, too. Many communities are imposing water restric­tions, and once-prized lawns look like twine-fodder. 
"I mowed once in three weeks, and when I mowed the whole lawn was full of dust be­cause the lawn was so dry," said Bob Sanborn, 42, of West Nyack, N.Y., where outdoor watering and car washing are forbidden. 
The six wells that supply Mount Savage, Md., have dropped to one-third their nor­mal level. "People will probably have to go out of town to do their laundry" by next week, said Dan Williams, president of the town's water company. 
In Delaware, Gov. Thomas Carper declare a drought state of emergency on Monday that will force most state residents to use less water. Newark, N.J., has threatened fines or cutoffs for people who violate water restrictions. 
Drinking water supplies aren't threatened in most areas because many large reservoirs were replenished by early sum­mer and spring rains. 
Streams and rivers are low, however, threatening wildlife. The reduced flow of fresh water into the Hudson and Delaware rivers has allowed ocean water to penetrate far­ther inland, exposing fish and other wildlife to dangerous lev­els of salty water. 
~·············································~ 
• 
The 1st 

7 p.m. September 11, 1995 
• 

Room 120 
Law School 
W) 
• 
~ 
All Juniors & Seniors Should Attend 
Everyone Welcome ! 
'-·············································-' 



Students overrun rival city 
Associated Press 
PESHAWAR, Pakistan 
Taliban, the student-led mili­tia that grew out of disgust with the way rival Mghan fac­tions were tearing the country apart, overran the western Afghan city of Herat on Tuesday. 
Government troops and provincial leaders fled the Tal­iban forces without a fight, 
U.N. workers reported. Taliban quickly established a new local government and declared a three-day holiday. 
"We entered Herat this morning and are in full con­trol," said Abdul Rahman Za­hid, a Taliban spokesman in northwest Pakistan. "The peo­ple greeted us by cheering and waving as we entered the city." 
Gov. Ismail Khan fled the city before dawn in a 50-vehicle caravan carrying government officials and their families, Za­hid said. 
David Lockwood, representa­tive for the U.N. Development Program in Kabul, confirmed that Taliban forces were in Herat, saying his information came from seven U.N. workers who left the city Tuesday after­noon. 
"They decided that rumors that the government would put up some resistance was strong enough that they left the city," Lockwood told the Associated Press, speaking from Islam­abad, Pakistan. "We didn't want to say anything until they had safely reached Islam Ghala," some 60 miles to the west. 
The Afghan Embassy in Is­lamabad, however, denied that Taliban fighters had entered Herat. 
Afghanistan's 10 main Is­lamic groups fought side-by­side during the Soviet occupa­tion of their country in the 1980s, but they have waged a bitter power struggle since dri­ving out the Communist gov­ernment in 1992. Their re­lentless battles have reduced much of Kabul, the Afghan capital, to rubble. 
U.N. aid workers, evacuated from Kabul a year ago, had set up base in Herat because of the relative peace there. 
Taliban, made up of former Islamic religious students, stormed into the fray last year when they captured one-third of the country and threatened to topple the government in Kabul. 
They launched an offensive in western Mghanistan several days ago, capturing a major government military base at Shindand before marching northwest to Herat, 60 miles away. 
In March, President Burhanuddin Rabbani's troops pushed the Taliban out of firing range of Kabul. 


Ifyou're into computer sciences, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law... 

get in touch with State Farm. 
Our career opportunities are many and varied for qualified grads. If you're selected, you'll enjoy the advantages of working with a respected leader in the insurance industry. Expert training. State­of-the-art equipment. Excellent pay and benefits. Plenty of room to grow. And you'll enjoy Bloomington, Illinois, too. It's a thriving community with the social, cultural and recreational activities afforded by two universities. 
Contact your Placement Director, or write Mary Holman, Assistant Director Home Office Personnel Relations, One State Farm Plaza, Bloomington, Illinois 61710. 
State Farm Insurance Companies •Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois· An Equal Opportunity Employer 



VIEWPOINT 
page 9 Wednesday, September 6, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 

New! Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Porter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ..................... .]en Mackowiak Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Aa:ent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary' a Erutor .................... Patti Carson Controller ................ , ............................ Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, SportS Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day EditorI Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 

Drinking: Is alcohol consumption an ND problem? 
C
rackhead, dope fiend, junkie, basehead, loser, crack-ho. That's what we tend to think when we call people who are under the foot of controlled substances. The Iiithy-dirty, homeless, nasty, stinky. punk who'd rob his mama just to get the next fix. As you might already know by now, I've been here for three years and working on the fourth. I can honestly say I've been in and around the campus pretty ~uch and. know all the things one should know in said time about Notre Dame and blaming Notre Dame for this prob­lem, I am blaming those who par­take in it. 
I don't care what anybody says, alcoholism is not a disease. There is no alcoholism bacteria flying around in the air, waiting for the perfect opportunity for a unknowing person to suck it in then take over. No, I don't think so. Alcoholism is an addiction that feeds off lack of self­control and a person's perceived 
reliance  on  it,  and  people get  
trapped in it.  It kills, it ruins lives,  
marriages,  


it's people. relationships, 
But there is families, one thing I don't careers, and quite under­dreams.
Cristiane 

stand and it's There has been bugging been many a me more than time that I
Likely

ever because it have walked they aren't the passed thor­only ones. We oughly 
tend to associ­ate such bad things like drugs and the like to poor members of ethnic groups, but such is not the case. What we don't readily recognize are the crackheads and dope fiends of a diiTerent variety. Those who smoke crack and inject heroin aren't any better off than those who saturate their bodies with various kinds of alcohol and liquors. 
T
Just as easily as you saw Nancy Reagan say No! to drugs, you should emphatically say No! to alcohol. You didn't see Nancy saying no to alco­hol, because homegirl probably had a flask of rum in her purse. he alcohol well is pretty deep here at Notre Dame without any doubt. Most people here drink, and a lot can't exert any reasonable force to stop themselves from divulging this urge on a regular basis and it's plain stupid. Notre Dame will keep graduating alco­holics by the hundreds, year after year. Don't get me wrong, I am not 
drunken indi­viduals trying quite unsuccessfully to get from point A to point B. They can't even form a complete sen­tence, let alone be in the right frame of mind to be conscious of their sur­roundings.. 
T
It would be so easy for some psy­chopath (like the famed Blue Jogger) to bop someone on the head and for that person to never be seen again. God only knows. We have to be smarter than that. My mother tells me all the time "You have to be smarter than that if you want to keep yourself out of trouble". hat's all alcohol is, trouble. When you convince yourself that the only way you can have fun on the weekends is to get crazy. stupid, nasty drunk you're asking for trou­ble. When you drink so much you pass out then wake up in a pool of vomit, you're asking for trouble. When you reek of vodka and being a general danger to yourself and other is "cool", you're asking for trouble. 

Alcohol and somebody stupid is killing somebody right now. We've all heard horror stories about people who'd "had a little too much to drink" and how they ended up killing somebody or themselves. We all know about the hazing tragedies that occur every year at colleges and universities nationwide. And it's so sad to see otherwise intelligent, competent young people destroy their minds and bodies for a few hours of what they call fun. 
S
I figure if you need to consume anything to have a good time, then there's something wrong with you. I don't want to hear all this "it's not a big deal" stuff, cuz it very much is. You don't need it and it's not doing a darn thing for you but slowing and surely bringing you down. Look at Mickey Mantle. He was on top of the world but all that came crashing down when his body couldn't hold up to the effects of his alcoholism and that's what killed him. o one has to wonder how does the average Joe Schmoe become a slave to the brown beer bottle? I don't have those answers and prob­ably never will. I do believe howev­er there are a lot of factors like fam­ily life, peer pressure, depression, destructive behavior, who knows? 
I have never had any alcohol and I consider myself blessed. I mean with all the horrible things in the world the last thing I need to do is have a drink or get wasted. I got things to do and people to see. Nowadays you have to be on your toes, and on top of things or life will pass you right by. I plan to be awake and alert at everything life is gonna throw at me. You know how that goes. 
Cristiane J. Likely is a senior liv­ing in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin. helios. nd. edu 

GARRY TRUDEAU

• DDONESBURY 
J J., I f}()N'T KNOtt/ I ovv7seu&ve You IVHifT YOU THIN!< tuOUWRUNOUTON PWR, YOU'RE W!N6 1 5W£8T, A{}()RAE31.& MI!<E JlET 7D 88tu!TH 50M& ... I 50M&... 
IS THATHIM OV&R. TH&R/3 ~ 
I 

ACTUAU},' 
H&/5 
PR&TTY HOT. 
I 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Two great European nar­cotics, alcohol and Christianity." 
-Friedrich Nietzsche 
ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, September 6, 1995 



Xofre Vame anddainl!J7rary's sludenls experience !he mayic of Iida 
~a-(y 's classicalcufiure 
By ANGELA CATALDO train and being in another country with­Accent Writer in a few hours," noted Junior Lisa Schroeder, one of last year's Rome pro­
One barely needs to spend an evening gram participants. of conversation or a chat on the phone When reflecting on their experiences, with any of the members of the Saint students tend to focus upon more than Mary's College Rome program to under­classes, traveling expeditions, and stand that this semester or year abroad Italian cuisine. They all talk about was not about travel or attractions or change, how they are different now than classes, but about personal growth and they were before they left. Some are character development. The program specific, able to point out what is differ­follows a humanities based curriculum ent about them while others note larger, requiring a minimum G.P.A. of 2.5 and a less-definable changes. Lisa noted her year of Italian, although exceptions can ability to accept and understand dif­be made by the enrollment of a six cred­ferent peoples and cultures. For her, it intensive course while in Rome. The the reverse culture shock she felt in program is open to not Saint Mary's and other countries outweighed her own Notre Dame students, but other univer­reactions to Italian culture. sities as well. Many students feel guilty about their 
The experience of studying abroad in opportunity to participate in the Rome Rome is enriching scholastically as it program. Brandon Nappi spoke of guilt offers a .unique way of teaching Art as a barrier, one which makes it difficult History. What better way to learn about to relay what he is feeling when fellow the greatest art in history than to actual­students who have not had the experi­
ly see it firsthand? ence ask him, "How was your year in 

The program is located within walking Rome?" Julie Hackett and Christine distance of the Forum while the Riesenberger, two Juniors from Saint Pantheon and the Vatican are only Mary's who met in Rome and are now twenty minutes away. The women stay roommates, concentrated on the "bond" College in Rome as an important ele­Students also speak about their feel­in the Hotel Tiziano, while the men are that they now feel with other Rome pro­ment in her Rome experience. ings of fear, as they are now afraid to be located nearby in the Hotel Arenula. gram participants and how difficult it is According to Schroeder and Nappi, back at Saint Mary's or Notre Dame Classes are scheduled for Monday, now to be away from them. They both these men made their experiences even after spending the year abroad. Tuesday, and Thursday with a lecture agree that this dependence upon one more enriching. All three returned Many are frustrated, wanting to show 
and tours class on Wednesday. Long another, from not only sharing the same with a renewal of faith and excitement everyone a million snap shots, tell a weekends encourage students to travel experiences of living in another culture about the future of Catholicism. "We so thousand stories and share their general and explore the neighboring peoples but also from days of travel, classes and often have this preconceived notion experiences, but they do not feel as 
and countries. dining together, is a bond that will never about the hierarchy of the Church as though people are concerned. However, 
"The concept of travel is so different break. being cold and established, but these only in sharing in Rome program memo­and you don't understand it until you Catherine Marciano noted the semi­men showed us that Catholicism is any­ries will one understand the true lure of have had the experience of hopping on a narians from the North American thing but that," Nappi said. Rome. 

Semester Around the World 

safety on their journey. The list hers of the program stay in a of hypodermics contains ap­hotel, live similarly to dor­proximately six total shots, one mitory life one mile away from of which Doug McKenna, an the school, to which they walk English major at Notre Dame, daily. At the end of the jour­revealed is eight inches long. ney, students fly to London McKenna described the experi­where from which they are free ence as "an exciting time before to go anywhere. you even leave the country." "Hanging out with Mother The students are also requested Theresa," McKenna explained, to take malaria and vitamin was his fondest memory of the pills everyday and advised not journey. "We prayed in her to drink the water! Weight loss house with her; she is an in­and sickness are common, but credible woman and a role are still a part of the adventure model to me. To be in the place overseas. But, as far as these where she started was an in­drawbacks are concerned, the credible experience." positives far outweigh the nega­Tim Dunn, a senior at Notre tives. Any hardship is well Dame who was in the same worth the exciting and amazing group as McKenna, stated, visit to a totally different cul­"Being able to talk to people ture. was the most interesting expe­
According to McKenna, the rience. We talked to a bellboy culture in India is mind who had three college degrees, expanding, "you are challenged which shows the state of the by what you see." economy in India. We dis­
The academics are demand­cussed our feelings about his ing as well. Studies begin to­country, and he told us how he wards the end of September felt about America." and are completed at the end of The Semester Around the November. School is five to six World program is run through 
By KATHLEEN LANCASTER By the time you get home you Once every two years, thirty days a week including field Saint Mary's College, but all are Accent Writer have experienced Indian phi­students, consisting mainly of trips to various cultural sights invited to apply. The director, losophy, religion, art, politics, sophomores and juniors and a and events. The school is Dr. Pullapilly, is presently away 
Imagine yourself at the Taj history, literature, dance, and few seniors, get the unique op­taught in and surrounded by with this semester's world trav­Mahal watching the sunrise music. You have been to the portunity to embark upon this English speaking people so no elers, but will return in surrounded by 30 other stu­Himalayan mountains white journey. Students must go knowledge of a foreign lan­December, looking for adven­dents who, like you, are swept water rafting, and you met through a rigorous application guage is required. turous applicants. Brochures away by the beauty and mys­Mother Theresa during the process, consisting of extensive Although the classmates are are available in the History de­tery of this foreign place. This evening prayer. You even min­interviews with Dr. Pullapilly, friends from America, students partment at Saint Mary's. So, if mystery, however, is every day gled with the natives and saw the head of the Semester are highly encouraged to get you want to see roaming, sa­becoming more and more of a the sights in Tokyo, Shanghai, Around the World program at involved with their host family cred cows in the streets, make reality. You are taught by Beijing, Hong Kong, Singapore, Saint Mary's. Once accepted, members as to become life-long friends, and simply Indians who aren't just special­Thailand, Bangkok, and Indian the newly inducted students immersed in the culture. have the experience of living in ists in their field, but practice it Proper. You have done all this have a few rites of passage they Students do not live with the a culture that is completely dif­everyday. Meanwhile you are and still managed to attain must endure before their de­host families so it is up to them ferent and foreign to your own, being exposed to Hinduism, credit that will benefit your parture. Several shots are ad­to put into it as much as they then this is the program for Daoism, and Islamic religions. G.P.A. ministered in order to ensure want to get out of it. The mem-you. 
ACCENT
Wednesday, September 6, 1995 page 11 


Students returning from abroad readjust 
to Alllerican culture -... 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
T
he woman in your History class looks vaguely famil­iar. You stare at her for awhile. She appears somewhat disoriented, but sits very confi­dently. She does not look like a freshman, plus it is a 300 level course. Wait a second. I remember that girl. we walked to the graffiti dance together freshman year. I thought she transferred? Then you notice her pencil has a miniature Irish flag attached to the eraser. You approach her, "Where you, like, abroad last year?" 
"Yes, I went to Ireland," she smiles proudly. 
"How was it?" You ask, walk­ing out the door. Her face glows as she reminisces about the emerald isle, "Incredible," she responds. 
"Well glad to have you back. Give me a call some time," your voice trails. She is left in a daze as you rush off to your busy routine. 
The envious many, who, for some reason or another, are not able to study abroad, or do not chose to go abroad, are aware that studying abroad is "the best time of your life." But, what we seem to forget is the adjustment period when re­turning to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Twenty-three out of twenty­six students in the Saint Mary's Ireland program, and the ma­jority of the student in the Saint Mary's Rome program left col­lege as a freshmen and re­turned as an upper-classmen. 
"At first, I felt like a freshman all over again," said junior Ireland student, Kathleen McGurk. "But as I settled in, I realized how much I have grown in the last year. I don't have the same anxieties as I did freshman year because I al­ready established my group of friends. It was just blending my new with old friends-that's what worried me." 
As the students prepared themselves for their return to campus, they expressed mixed emotions. "The social trans­formation has been easier than I had expected," said junior Rome student, Carmen LaPiana,"I visualized my whole freshman year all over again. Then I came back and realized everyone has grown up as much as I have." 
Junior Ireland student Collin Shaughnessey stated, "Coming back to school has been harder then I thought. I had so much time to myself, nothing was ever rushed. I completely miss the relaxed atmosphere. In Ireland there was no concept of time." 

Not all students had to adjust from freshman status to junior status overnight. The Notre Dame programs consist pre­dominantly of juniors. 
Regardless of the different abroad programs, the students missed the culture and the peo­ple the most. 
"Because I was in Ireland, the counter culture shock was deeper than if I had studied in another culture," said senior Allison Lambert. "I had the op­portunity to get to know the people, and I fell in love with them. That would not have hap­pened if we didn't speak the same language." 
Junior Rome student, Brandon Nappi, noted his diffi­culty with returning to the United States,"It is difficult to return to American culture and find that in many ways that it is as ignorant as it is said to be, and this is sad." 
The students truly felt at­tached to the countries they vis­ited. The walls of their dorm rooms are now filled with col­ored photos, tube station tick­ets, and Irish flags while their minds are congested with mem­ories of ancient cities. 
"Ireland is a part of me," said junior Ireland student Ashley McCardle. "It's just something that I will always take with 
me." 
Coming home from studying abroad has a bittersweet twist. "I don't want people to think I am sad," said LaPiana. "It's not about being sad, I am happy here with my friends. It's a search for the culture that I miss. You get use to seeing the monuments (in Rome) and they just become a part of your life." 
Students' main concerns about returning to school were becoming reacquainted with old friends, balancing time with new friends, and academic ex­pectations. 
"I did not want to offend the friends I made freshman year by constantly talking about Rome, and bringing up private jokes," said junior Rome stu­dent Courtney McEvers. "But, it's very difficult because I learned so much more last year abroad than I could have learned in four years on cam­pus." 
Despite rumors that the aca­demics are easier abroad, Mary Kane argued, "The classes are not more difficult at Saint Mary's . In Ireland, you work more at your own pace. There is ho daily homework or weekly quizzes. You have more inde­pendence." 

As if getting used to the dif­ferent academic systems, re­uniting with old friends, and moving back into your "four by four" dorm room was not enough change, imagine the frustration of using your ex­pired fake ID and being denied at Bridget's after having the lib­erty of enjoying a beer with friends for an entire year. 
"The social scene was ex­tremely different (in Ireland)," said Kane. 
"The parties here are packed with people crowding around kegs, only to slam down their beers to get another one. And parties are the only places I can go now because I am not twen­ty-one, "she said. 
Some students were lucky enough to have reached the le­gal drinking age while over­seas. "It would have been so much harder to adjust if I was not twenty-one," said Lambert. "I don't think I could have done 
it... The abroad students could rattle on for days about their experiences, but no words could capture their travels. McCardle spoke for most of the abroad students when she said, "I know this sounds cheesy and all, but you just had to be there." 

Feed

Books•.r!ttd 




ROBERT 
JAA~ES 


WALLER 

Robert James Waller's 
..

Border Music hits sour note 
By LAUREN AIMONETTE under her decorated G-string. Jack, even a bit more substance, Waller Accent Literary Critic a temporary worker just passing fails to follow through. Characters through the area, comess to her aid. and plot become too quickly intro­As Chester Cheetah explains, "It's Together the two begin a journey to duced and twisted. Failing to recog­not easy being cheesy." Maybe Jack's home and a touching rela­nize that his greatest talent is his that's a lesson Robert James Waller tionship full of hard decisions and simplicity, Waller attempts a multi­needs to review. difficult questions quickly ensues. layered style he cannot handle, and 
"Border Music," the newest book Soon the reader settles into the ends up with a awkward flip-flop­by the author of the New York fairy-tale story and eagerly turns ping of plots reminiscent of the Times' bestseller "Bridges of the page, wondering if Linda will "Choose Your Own Adventure" Madison County," fails to even accept Jack's offer of a new home series. achieve an appealing sense of with him in West Texas. Reading "Border Music," one "cheesiness" and, instead, simply She should have stayed in Iowa wonders if Waller is simply at­provides a volume of jumbled and with her mother. tempting to fling out another book confusing text. Once Linda accepts and the cou­while his name is hot. The only 
"Border Music" is a hastily thrown ple heads south, Waller begins to bright spot of the entire 250-page together piece with a wild story line tread on unfamiliar ground. Adding tale is the small sub-plot story of and poorly developed characters. a set of confusing and unnecessary Mr. Vaughn Rhomer, which is clev­Perhaps excited by his earlier suc­sub-plots and characters, Waller erly written and entertaining. The cesses and deciding to use his gets in over his head. well-written chapters describing recent popularity to try out other He includes overly explicit Linda and Jack's trip and the hap­literary techniques, Waller clumsily descriptions in inconsequential pas­hazard style of the book seem to adopts several different styles of sages and fails to give enough infor­suggest that Waller had a few old story-telling in his new book. mation in other passages for the short stories back in his writer's file Danielle Steele-like poetry, awk­reader to even minimally un­of ideas which he drew out and ward song lyrics, and inept textual derstand the strange twists and hastily threw together to create a constructions plague his novel and turns of the plot. new book. only obscure its message. Waller's talent for writing in this Perhaps attempting to capitalize 
The story begins with the flight of fairy tale style is clear. But the on his success in this way, or maybe Linda "Lobo" and "Texas Jack" reader, excited to enjoy a new sam­just wanting to try out new tech­Carmine from a bar in Northern ple of Waller's skill, is sadly niques, Waller has produced a new Minnesota. Linda has just lost her deprived of such a chance in novel which makes one thing cer­job as a tassel-twirling stripper "Border Music." While the first few tain: sometimes the country boy after an overexcited customer chapters seem to promise a story of just isn't ready to explore new bor­decided to try and take a peek "cheesy" perfection and perhaps ders. 

The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds 

Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 1995 

Pontiac Sunbird 2000, 1984, 4 Dr,  Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call  $$$ NEED UT, USC, AND BC  I NEED 2 BC GA'SIII  Ill George and the Freaks Ill  
NOTICES  automatic, air, tape deck. Very good condition. Recent Goodyear  Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m.  GA'S, WILL PAY BIG CASH OR TRADE VANDY GA'S CALL ERIC  CALL KELLY x4801  Thursday Night, Sept. 7 at the Alumni Senior Club, 1 0:30. Bring  
tires, brakes, exhaust system.  NEED NO-TEXAS GA  OR NICK@ 232-1726$$$  your cup and party with the Freaks.  
28 mpg. 90,000 mi. $1,350.  OR STUDENT TIX.  I NEED 2 BC TICKETS!  
SAVE THIS AD  291-3125, message or after 5.  CALL DAVE 609-779-3876.  I have $$$, Navy GAs, and USC  
WEEKEND ROOMS FOR  STU. TIX 4 SALE  tix. Please· sell or trade. x3887.  Dan Dittler wishes he were a PLS  
N.DJS.M.C. VISITORS.  Entertainment center, big, black &  NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC &  GOOD SEAT(S)  major  
5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES  cool! Great shape, $180 new. $75.  PURDUE GA'S.  CALLX0516  Did somebody say Deal???? ..... .  
219-277-2388  Cindy 1-5022.  219-422-6088.  Desperately seeking 1Texas +/or  
I NEED one PURDUE ticket.  B.C. GA or student ticket. Willing to  
SONY CFD470 MEGABASS Dual  STUDENT OR GA NEEDED FOR  Contact Greg at (634) 4-3889.  swap Vandy +lor USC ticket.  EXPERIENCED CHILD CARE  
You can make a difference in the  Tape/CO/ AM-FM boombox  BC ... WILL PAY LOTS$$$$  Call273-4389 or leave message.  Full time, Mon.-Fri.,ND/SMC area  
life of another prospective student!  15mo old/used rarely  CALL 4-4828  References available  
To find out how you can join  $186/obo call 289-8917  NEEDED: Tickets to TEXA$, U$C  ????TRADE????  Call287-0116  
V.I.S.A. see us at Activities Night  or any other home game. Please  Seeking to trade 2 Vandy GA's  
tonight, 8-10 p.m., Angela Athletic  1111@11@ @!@!@@ @!#$#@$$%$@  call 273-9710.  for 2 Texas GA's  
Facility or call Bobbi at x4587  call Jim/Stacie (614) 261-0056  Interested in news broadcasting?  
PURDUE TICKET FOR SALE  l-arry needs youll  Join the WVFI news department  
273-4689  He needs your tickets tool  WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817­ and keep others from being clue­ 
ILOST & FOUND I  Looking for Navy G.A.s and VAndy GAs or student tix.  738-5109  Need 2 GA's for the Texas game. Will pay $$$$'s. Call Tom X-1105.  less. Call Joe at x2036  
Call 634-3593 if you can help him  Need 2 Vanderbilt GA's  RESIGN RESIGN  
Lost Precious Gold Chain from  Does it seem like the problem is  out.  Call Ali x4541  WANTED 5 BC GA'slll PLEASE  
Parents :( If found, PLEASE return  very deep?  !#@#$@$%#@ @#@@##@@@#I  CALL JENI271-1850.  Hey LOU-ser:  
It to MARII X2969  'Cause everytime you go to sleep  Do Notre Dame, your players, asst.  
you have nightmares?  Need 3 GA's for Vandy and 4 for  coaches, the fans and college foot­ 
I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI  UT-call Jeff X1828  Desparately need 1-2 TEXAS tkts  ball a favor:  
If so, you're not alone! There are  PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729.  (stud. or GA). Call Mary Kay  
FOUND: A gold ring with other fea­ still tickets left for the Violent  Need 2-4tix for Texas. John 631­ X4421.  RESIGN RESIGN  
tures. Found last week. about  Femmes show tonight so get to the  Need Student Booklets and GAs for  7204; 233-3412  
August 29th between Stanford and  LaFortune Info Desk before 6:00  every game.  
St. Michael's parking lot, by the  tonight or buy them at the door at  Call277-4755  NEED STUDENT TIXIII  Need 4 G.A.s  Send your lunch abroad I Sign up  
Infirmary. Call Francie at X4205 to  Stepan at 7:00.  VANDY, OSU, and NAVY  for any home game.  for Weds. Lunch Fast today in the  
identify.  233-2289  Call Alison X2511.  dining hall! or call Amy x2992 with  
$14 students/$18 non-students  NEEDED: 2 GA's for USC  your ID#  
WANTED  Violent Femmes, 16 Horsepower,  call 4x4876  Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas game -Reggie x4297  Student ticket bookets for sale.  
and Tacklebox tonight 8:00 p.m.  Good seats. Leave message  
BRIDGETS IS LOOKING FOR  Stepan Center  Student needs  @ 273-4372.  WSND WSND WSND WSND  
CAMPUS BANDS TO PLAY-DROP  2 tickets for USC game  
QFF DEMOTAPE TUES-SAT 8:00  for DOMESICK parents  TRADE ­2 BCNandblt GAs for 2  All returning DJ's and news staff as  
TO 3:00A.M. GIVE TO RICH OR  please call Bonnie at 634-3397  USC/Texas GAs-Call 219·273­ Needed: Air Force Academy Tix,  well as those interested in joining  
CHRISTY  with your tickets.  8379  Texas Tix, USC Tlx, Vanderbilt Tix,  our classical, tine arts and alterna­ 
1986 Red Mustang, Standard,  Call x1721 or x0642. Ask for John.  tive station are asked to attend a  
AMIFM Cassette. In good condition.  4 GAs need for Vanderbilt, 273­ meeting tonight (Wed. Sept. 6th) at  
Part time work for graduate student  $2,000. Call 287-7928.  3016  I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890  I have 2 BC GA's.Need 2 USC  7 PM in 138 DeBartolo. All are  
in electrical engineering. For more  GA's. Trade with mel x1362  encouraged to attend.  
info. call Dennis Cooper 237-9665.  Will trade 2 BC GA's for 2 Texas  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  
1986 Red Mustang, Standard,  GA's. 815·282·9503  Need WASHINGTON GAs badly,  Hope to see you there!  
AMIFM Cassette. In good condition.  GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Big$, call Mike x1208  
Sitter needed $4.50/hr. Must drive.  $2,000. Call287·7928.  Need GA's & Student Tx for USC.  CALL 2719464 OR 2887162  WSND WSND WSND WSND  
Non-smoker. Mon. 12-5:30 + 1 Fall  Call Rich at 277-4755  
weekend. Kids ages 6,8,& 14. 277­ '85 Shadow 500  NEED 1 PURDUE TX. CALL CARY  
9661  ding in tank  $$$$$$$$  @ 4-0993  
runs great  HELP WANTED:  I NEED NAVY GA'SI  
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  $800  My mom decided she loves me  
Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best  233-5288  I will do anything for USC GAs.  after she sold her parents weekend  "There is a tide in the affairs of  TN R Pretty Cool! I  
Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun,  Money no object.  tickets. Yes, its a tough life with a  men, Which, taken at the flood,  
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break  mom like mine so make It all better  leads on to fortune; Omitted, all the  
Travel! 1-800-678-6386  Brian x3692  and sell me your GAs. Your folks  voyage of their life Is bound in shal·  
NEED FEMMES TIX?  don't want to come out, we SUCK!  lows and in miseries.·  
Call Megan at 4x4807.  My tide is in Columbus, Ohio on  I was not the only person last night  
WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR  I HAVE TWO LEFT  NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS·  $$$$$$$$  Sept. 30. If you have 1 ticket for  to miss the demonic mistake in the  
PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS­ CALL NORM @ 232-2954  NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL­ the ND-OSU game, I'll give you a  headline. Demons, Devils,  
SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN.  OR 631-5313 FOR  LAR. (610)995-9671  fortune. (219) 634-3322 Brian  Dorks...lts all the same! Why don't  
219-462-8943  you bug Treacy, too ... l'm so abused  
2FEMMESTIX  Need BC GAs 232-9784  DESPERATELY NEED 3 G.A.  around here!  
Lead Guitarist Looking for Band  TICKETS TO ANY HOME GAME  1 Purdue Tix lor Sale Call Rob  
Call Flynn x-1007  FOR SALE TICKETSIIII  FOR MY FAMIL VIII  x1581  Hey Guertin, How's this for a point­ 
~-F_o_R_RE__N_T__~I  ~~__T__Ic_KE__T_s__~  G.A. S ALL GAMES ••••••• 272-72331111111111  $$$$$ PLEASE CALL LIZ x2776  Want to see NO take out some frus­ less message? I can't go too long, I guess, but that's your jobl I'm just too cool for message boards any­ 
2 GAs4 Sale:  tration on Purdue? WE HAVE 2  more ... this Is far bigger than yours!  
NIGEL Y DECORATED ROOMS  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  ALUM • needs 2 or 4 ND/TEX •  NW,Vandy,UT,Navy  PURDUE TICKETS FOR SATUR­ Alright lax stud, as usual I have  
FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS,  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  GA's. Will trade 2 ND/NW plus $50  271-2837.  DAY! call Jed or Rob -1177  nothing to say, just wanted to bug  
REASON.RATES,GREAT  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  for 2 or will pay $100 each. Call JC  ya, VA girl.  
ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2  219·232-0061, 24 HAS.  or Barry 815-633-7193  
MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM  Just need 2 PURDUE tickets, call  
277-8340.  Texan Domer needs 2 Texas GA's  I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS,  Mark at x3360  What position is next?  
TICKET-MART, INC.  for family. Call Jeff @ 233-2460  VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU  
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  WANTED  HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND  Hey Mark- 
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  WANT TO MAKE A TRADE .....  NEED 2 USC GA'S AND 4 TEXAS  Hope you get well soon.  
•  272-6306  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. BUY* SELL *TRADE  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Former NO student needs SIX  Call Tom at: 4-3893  GA'S: CALL KEVIN 234-3468  Section 3-west  
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  (219) 232-0058 • 24 HAS.  Texas GAs. Name your price.  Need 1 GA or stud. tix for my little  Why can't I get just one car?  
232-2595  Call Ryan at (608) 849-7702  bro to BC. Willing to pay$$$$$$  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  2 navy GAs needed  Call Mike, x3459  What a great time was had at 202  
-tina 273-3174  Campus View.  
Affordable, clean, student apts.  Help!! need a total of 8 GAs plus  
Furnished studio, $235  BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4  1st. tix lor Vanderbilt, Matt X-3931  Uly I hope you are not feeling  
Furnished 1 bedrm, $270  NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR  WILL TRADE 4 USC GA + PRKG  Help! I need 2 or 3 Texas GA'sl  lonely. Big Orange can sometimes  
heat & water included  ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST.  FOR 4 TX GA. 708-948-8293  Kevin x1883  be wet and cold, but Slopey Joe will  
755 South Bend Ave -1 block from N.D. Ave  andWASHINGTON A MUST PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ...... ..  WILL TRADE GA TICKETS TO  HEY  PERSONAL  always be there during the times you aren't feeling so fresh and  
deposit, references 1-800-582-9320  2771659  VANDY, TX, OR BC FOR USC/NO  I Need Vandy and Texas tickets  flowery.  
TIX. WILL ALSO PAY TOP $ FOR  call239-7959 ask for Mike  JAZZERCISE  
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  USC/NO TIX. CALL BOB 818-793­ Hey man, you got any bud?  
Need a place to stay tor the sum­ GAMES.272-6306  0412  ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT  
mer? We are subletting for Mid­ Need 2 Vandy GA's  & STAY THAT WAY.  
May 96 through August 96 at  NEED TEXAS GA'S.  BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE  Please call Jon @ X11 03  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Kermie-You are always welcome  
College Park Condominiums. Call  CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010,  CALL KATIE@ 219-271·9856.  CALL 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO.  in myrooml  
Sarah, Nicole, or Jen for details @  EXT. 8796.  THANK YOU!  NEED TICKETS AND PRAYERS.  
273-1738.  TEXAS GA'S CALL SARAH X4916  Trapezoid woman rules!  
USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­ 
Desperately need USC tickelslll  DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT  Hey, you!. I know you're interested  Hello 3N Lewis ...  
Lafayette Square: Sub-lease, 200  3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student  219-271-9856. THANK YOU!  TRADE • 2 Navy GA'S for 2  in Notre Dame Student Players.  
a mon. Call Bryce@ 287-8863  Please call Chris at 288-7843.  Vandblt. Ga'S call4-2744  Our first meeting of the year Is com·  Christiane is the best archie everl  
ing up soon, Mark your calendars:  
Need 2 Texas GAs.  Need 1 GA or Student for Texas  NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$  I love Space Moose.  
HOUSE FOR RENT  Desperate and Wealthy!  Gamel! II! Will pay lots of$$$$$$$  please call Charlie x2243  (9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame  
1 mile from campus  Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370  Please call x4928 Anna  Room, LaFortune).  
$450 per month  $$$$$$  NEED TICKETS??? 4 SALE 1  We WILL win milkshakes today, if  
nm x1059 or Nick x0546  Need 2 Vandy GA's  stud & 1 married stud booklet X4­ All are welcome. Keep the faith  my partner can avoid hitting my  
need vanderbilt tickets  x0652  3144  and love alive. Be a part of the  butt.  
FOR SALE  GA's or married student tix call Dan @ 273-4780  !!@VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@!!  action. I'll see you there.  Hi BPI  
NO student needs 6 Texas and 2  
USED TEXTBOOKS-UP TO 40%  Navy tickets for family driving  Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt!  hey kim-thanks lor the show-do you  watch out for exploding  
OFF-2 DAY SERVICE • NO­ need TEXAS, USC, BC tkts  REALLY far to get here - GAs are ideal. Help her out and  want to borrow a skirt?! where the  toilets.  
HOWARD STREET-233-2342.  call Mike x4429  PLEASE call Kerry @ 634-2925  she will pay you the big bucks!  hell were you? love, your fan club  
OPEN7DAYS  Call her at 219-634-4203 and make  who says binoculars aren't for  
PANDORA'S BOOKS  Need 4 GA 's for Texas Game  her an offer.  drinking, too.  
I HAVE USC TIX  need GOOD seats.  Needed: 2-3 more people lor fall  
Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­ Call Kristen 277-3019  "&*%%$@#(Go Irish!)#@$%%*&"  break rafting/camping trip.  Suz, we'll start the mobile tonite,  
Awesome Tailgaterslll NO FIGHT­ ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs.  1 day raft. down Gauley River,  after we buy a new "stinkin" pen.  
ING IRISH conversion van! Runs  Call Matt W(312)704-7704  NEED8TEXGA  I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI  W.Va.-5day camp TN. If interested,  
Great, $1995, Call to seel232-9784  H(312)549-0825  BILLY 273-4212  CALL JOHN @ 234-5771  call277-9682 ext. 635.  

Wednesday, September 6, 1995' The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• BASEBALL 

-
. 

Yankees discuss relocating Jones' deal with 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

In another threat to leave the Bronx, the New York Yankees said Tuesday they are consider­ing moving to a new ballpark. 
"After exhaustive review of the city's many plans to reno­vate Yankee Stadium, we believe it is necessary to broad­en our exploration of sites for a new stadium," said David Sussman, the Yankees' execu­tive vice president and general counsel. 
Sussman said plans for reno­vation of Yankee Stadium would aggravate existing traffic and parking problems at the ballpark.· 
"Under that plan when the parking lots were at capacity, it would take between two and three hours for all of the cars to leave garages after a game," he said. "Clearly, this is unaccept­able." 
The Yankees hired Vollmer Associates to analyze the city's proposal, and the company found several obstacles to the plan. The team said it voiced its objections to the city in July. 
"As a result, there are serious questions whether the plan could ever be implemented," Sussman said. "And it is highly unlikely that the plan in its entirety could be implemented within the time and cost para­meters provided by the city." 
The team's lease with New York City city expires in 2002, and Sussman said "it is time to 
Tan All Yoy Can 
Mlnutntromcampus 
for one month :j;35.00 ~.~~::;:rro~~ 
Cloud Sun. & Mon.
272-0312 

consider all available al­ternatives." The Yankees have mulled possible moves to New Jersey and Manhattan. 
"However, we are not sug­gesting that a decision has been made to leave the Bronx," he said. 
"We are sorry that the Yankee organization did not find the administration's plan for a new Yankee Stadium ac­ceptable," said John Dyson, New York City's deputy mayor. 
"We are willing, however, to go back to the table and contin­ue discussions, including exploring alternative sites for the stadium in New York City. We are pleased, though, that they have not ruled out the South Bronx as a possibility." 
Sussman said the Yankees must act promptly because of the time required for a ballpark project. 
"Consequently, the Yankees anticipate that we will expedite the site selection process and proceed to the planning and design phases as soon as possi­ble." 
Yankee Stadium opened April 18, 1923, and in the inaugural game, Babe Ruth hit the first home run. Since then, the park has undergone several renova­tions -the Yankees even played at the Mets' Shea Stadium from 1974-75-but never been moved. 
Take Kaplan and get a higher score••• 

•••or your money back!* 
We have the great teachers and powerful test-taking strategies you need. 
get a higherscore 
1-800-KAP-TEST 





KAPLAN 
E-mail: info@kaplan.com America Online: keyword "Kaplan· Internet home page: http:/ /www.kaplan.com 
'Offer limited to selected test dales. May nol be valid outside of South Bend. Restrictions apply. Calf for details. 

Nike offends owners 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
While Jerry Jones delighted in his Nike caper Tuesday, the rest of the NFL fumed. 
"He enjoys the maverick im­age," said Carmen Policy, pres­ident of the 49ers and the Dallas owner's favorite jousting partner. "But the man's gone too far, he's out of control. There is money and there is class and the two aren't syn­onymous." 
Jones pulled his latest raid on what the league and its union consider their private province Monday by announcing his own deal with Nike in a press release headed "Cowboys' Owner Bucks NFL Again." 
It not only upstaged his team's 35-0 demolition of the Giants, but again alienated the league establishment by attacking the revenue-sharing concept that's made them rich. And it again set off an anti­Jones reaction. 
Jones showed he can step outside league guidelines and strike his own deal at the expense of the other 29 teams. The Nike deal could help Jones in his attempt to sign Deion Sanders, a major client of the sports apparel giant. 
Jones and Policy are battling for Sanders, the baseball play­er-cornerback who helped San Francisco win the Super Bowl last season. That became more urgent Monday night when Kevin Smith, the Cowboys' best corner, went down with an Achilles injury that's expected to put him out for the season. 
But there was a general sense around the league that Jones is biting the hand that feeds him by trying to separate the Cow­boys' revenue from NFL Prop­erties, the league's licensing arm. During Monday night's game, the Dallas coaches and staff members wore no logos on their plain white shirts, not even anything that said "Cowboys." 

Jones already has bucked the league by selling Pepsi rather than the league sanctioned Coca-Cola at Texas Stadium. 
"Jerry doesn't have the con­cept of what it means to be a team and what it means to work in concert with your asso­ciates," said the Giants' Wellington Mara, the league's senior owner. 
"I see where he said that he thinks we should continue rev­enue-sharing in television and gate receipts. To me that trans­lates that he would like to share in other people's rev­enues without them sharing his." 
Team equipment licensing goes through NFL Properties, run by all 30 teams. No more than a couple have any sympa­thy for Jones -perhaps New England's Robert Kraft and Oakland's AI Davis, the eternal maverick. Policy called Jones "an AI Davis wannabe." 
The rest are likely to vote against any private deal. They object not only to his substance but also his style, as when he paraded on the field during Monday night's game with ten­nis star Monica Seles, among others, in tow.He's also buck­ing the players union. 
Player licensing must go through Players Inc., the li­censing arm of the NFL Players Association. 
"Jerry didn't invent sports marketing and is not the only person capable of exploiting it," said Doug Allen, the assis­tant executive director of the NFLPA and the president of Players Inc. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the followin unpaid positions: 
Accent Literary Critic Accent Music Critic Accent Film Critic Accent Theatre Critic 
Experience a plus. bring a one page sample to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune by 2 PM Sunday. 
come a g way baby! Our Very Best on' Your Bi r t h d ay. 
All Our Love Always, 
~, Z'ad, 


page 14

Wednesday, September 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
-
• U.S. OPEN 

Courier returns to old form, upsets Muster 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Jim Courier wandered out of his strange wilderness and into contention at the U.S. Open on Tuesday, thumping foot-sore French Open champion Thomas Muster in straight sets on a day when upsets reigned. 
.There was. no indifference by Courier this time, none of the haphazard stretches or moody moments that have marked his descent in the rankings. 
This time, for the better part of two hours, he was the Courier of old, drilling 10 aces, 

., drumming baseline winners and reaching the quarterfinals with a 6-3, 6-0, 7-6 (7-4) romp over the No. 3 Muster, a clay court specialist who ripped up his feet on these hot hard­courts. Courier, No. 14, will find out just how far back he's come when he plays his next match against No. 5 Michael Chang, a 6-2, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3 winner over Michael Tebbutt. Reaching tP,e women's semi­finals were top-seeded Steffi Graf and No. 9 Gabriela Saba­tini. Graf beat Amy Frazier 6-2, 6·3. and Sabatini downed Mary Joe Fernandez 6-1, 6-3, two days after Fernandez ousted defending champion Arantxa Sanchez Vicario. "I've really progressed from match to match," said Graf, who played a three-setter in the opening round and won every 
other match in straight sets. "My back is holding up really well." 
Graf has dominated Sabatini of late, but remembered losing to her in the fmal at the Open in 1990 when Sabatini won her only Grand Slam title. 
"Her game keeps you ofT a lit­tle bit so you don't get the rhythm," Graf said . 
Muster never got his rhythm against Courier. Muster's bleed­ing blisters were covered with a yard of tape, but for all it mat­tered he might as well have played barefoot the way little Byron Black of Zimbabwe used to do. Black, who's grown up to all of 5-foot-9, pulled the first upset of the afternoon by send­ing 6-foot-4, 1994 runner-up Michael Stich packing, 6-4, 6-4, 3-6. 2-6, 6-3. 
"I played a lot of barefoot," 
Black said of his youth on the 
grass courts his father, once a 
player at Wimbledon, installed 
back home. "I have very high 
arches. I started getting a very 
bad heel, and then I had to play 
in shoes, although my dad 
didn't like me tearing up his 
court too much." 
Black tpre up Stich with a va­
riety of two-fisted forehands 
and backhands, and the net­
charging Stich accommodated 
him with 79 unforced errors. 
"I know how he plays, and I 
just think I got ofT to a very bad 
start," said Stich, the No. 8 
seed. "He didn't make any un­
forced errors. From the third 
set on, I was just in charge. I changed my style. I went for more. I had my chance in the fifth set, that break-point for 2­1, but I just gave it away. I played a poor game, made a double-fault and missed an easy volley." 

Courier and Muster waged a fierce baseline duel, slugging hard all the way, but Courier took more chances and put away far more winners -42 to 14 -while out-acing Muster 10-0. 
"Personally, I feel good going out against Thomas on any sur­face, even clay," Courier said. "He's had a phenomenal year, and he deserves all the credit he's gotten. We're going to play the same match on any surface. We're going to play power vs. power, even on clay." 
Once the best player in the 
game, the winner of four Grand 
Slam titles from 1991 to 1993, 
Courier lost in the second 
round of the Open a year ago 
and drifted in this year with 
few of the other players giving 
him a chance of winning. 
But Courier said he started to 
feel good about his tennis a few 
days before the Open started. 
"When I feel good," he said, 
"I always play well." 
The problem for Courier has 
been that his tennis shifts with 
his mood, going from unbeat­
able one day to vulnerable an­
other. 

"Sometimes you have to take 
some steps backward to take 
some more steps forward," 
Courier said. "I really haven't pinpointed it. All I know is that's the way it is. Today I am playing well, and I am going to try to keep playing well for a good long time. 
"I learned I hate losing. I have always known that, but you really fmd it out when you lose a lot." 
Beating Muster so easily should help Courier against 

Chang. 
"I go in confident," Courier said, "knowing that I played a very good match. It is a good time for it, but I don't want to go outside and start doing cheerleading exercises or any­thing like that. It is one match." 
Muster had his blister wrapped twice during the match, the second time when he took an injury timeout at 6-5 in the fmal set. 
~~s~ ~TH DAY MEETING  
ALL WELCOME TO ATIEND.  
Wednesday 7:30PM Stanford -Keenan Chapel  

"There's Still Time to Radicalize Your Life!" COLMAN McCARTHY Columnist for the Washington Post Lafortune BallroomMonday, September 11, 7:00PM FREE Admission Reception to follow  

~, 
Wednesday, September 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Sophomore sensation Smith sits Saturday 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Alex Smith, whose total of 1,4 7 5 yards rushing last year was the third best by a fresh­man in NCAA history, may be­gin his sophomore season a lit­tle late. 
In his weekly teleconference Tuesday, coach Bill Mallory S!lid Smith.'s availability for Sat­urday's opening game was doubtful because of a pulled hamstring. 
"He's been in for a couple of treatments," Mallory said of Smith, who averaged 5.6 yards per carry and 134.1 yards per game on the ground and led the team in scoring with 10 touch­downs. 
"He's doing better, but it still hasn't gotten to the point where he's been given the green light to come out and practice," Mallory said. "We're not going to hurry it. I would say he would be very questionable for this Saturday. 
Sean Glover and Michael Batts are likely to see most of the work at tailback in place of Smith against Western Michi­gan on Saturday. Glover rushed for 130 yards on 28 carries last 

-. Co~og ~p~m~er tW~; ·...·. · .:.;~~ reso~rce for_coHe~ students~,.,.,.... ~·­
. .. ~ . .. . _· . ~ . ~-~ '~ .. ~. . .. . : . ~;'~,"' .. 
~>:'~~~. AtiJ~exP.t:ess:rtavet Aot.at~ 
~-.:.... ·~ ~-~ .. ~ . ' --. ; -""~ . -~ .'"{ . : .-._ ··; ·::~ __ ... ­
year. while Batts had only two carries and one reception in 1994 before he tore the anteri­or cruciate ligament in his left knee and was lost for the sea­son. 
"They'll interchange there on Saturday. They've both had good preseason practice. Glover is just a good all-around back. He's a good hard runner and has good catching skills ... And he's going to do a good job blocking for you," Mallory said. "Batts has come off that knee operation, and for the most part he's getting his game back in grove." 
The Hoosiers open their sea­son Saturday night in Memorial Stadium with Mallory needing a victory to become the win­ningest coach in Indiana foot­ball history. Mallory is 63-61-2 in 11 seasons at Indiana, tying the record for victories set by Bo McMillin from 1934-4 7. 
"We're most anxious to get the season underway. After a point you get a little tired of going against each other," Mallory said. "For the most part, it's been a good presea­son. On the negative side, we've had some people hurt that probably hurt the progress of 
our team." 
..>. "'>.'~ ...... 

for an ~nary alclt;' . 
.... ~ .. . . ... ~ ' . 
c~rd?.Dedariyo.Ai~ ·:,·~·::.··· 
" ': .. --~--... 
page 15 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Shorln-Ryu Karate Semester-long course that meets in Rockne 219 M1W 4:30-6:30 starting Wednesday, Sept. 14. Register in advance, and the fee $15. Call RecSports for information. 
Horseback Riding -An informational meeting will ~e held on Thursday, Sept. 7 at 6 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom. Class begins Sept. 14, and more information is avail­able at 1"'6100. 
Men's Club Volleyball ­Tryouts will be held on Sept. 10~12 in the JACC Auxiliary Gym. For more information come to activi­ties night or contact Josh at 4-3413 or Gregg at 4-1650. 
RecSports lntramurals ~ RecSports is offering a campus 2·person golf scramble. inter-hall and Grad/Faculty/Staff soccer, campus outdoor volleyball and inter-hall cross coun­
try. . The entry deadline is Sept. 6. The sign-ups for ..· the golf scramble are at the golf course pro shop and all others are at the _RecSports office. Please ' call RecSports at 1·6100 ·. for date and time of cap­tains' meetings. 
Pounce Purdue Volleyball Tournament -Register a team in advance in the RecSports office for this one~night event. The event is scheduled for Friday, Sept. 8, at the Stepan courts. 
: It is a co-ree 6-on-6 tour­
. nament requiring a mini­mum of two females on the court at all times. There will also be music and refreshments. The dead­line to enter a team is Thursday, Sept. 7. For more information, call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Bike Ride • RecSports will be sponsoring a hike ride from New Buffalo to the Dunes (approximately 25 miles round trip) on Sunday, Sept. 17. A picnic lunch at the Dunes is included along with trans­portation for you and your bike. 
The fee is $8 and space is limited. Helmets are required and you must reg­ister in advance at the RecSports office. The bus departs the Library Circle at 10 and returns at 5. Por more information call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Weight Room Dem~mstration -RecSports is sponsoring free demon­strations Sunday Sept. 10 at noon in the fieldhouse weight room, Monday, Sept. 11 at noon in the Rockne weight room, and Thursday, Sept. 14 at noon in the Rockne weight room. Sigh in when you get there. 
Mandatory Track Meeting -The meeting will be held Wednesday, Sept. 13 at 4 
-pm in Loftus Auditorium. Questions? Call Ken at 239·7959. 

-

I • 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 1995
I 
-
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Spurrier blasts fans for booing during Gators' win 
ByPAULNEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Steve Spurrier blasted Florida fans on Tuesday for booing the team in its season-opening vic­tory and even suggested he may have worn out his wel­come as the Gators coach. 
In a stunning start to his weekly media luncheon, Spurrier related how he had spoken before the previous day's practice with freshman punter Robby Stevenson, a prime target of jeers after he averaged only 21.5 yards on two kicks. 
"I put my arm around him and said, 'Robby, one good thing about this game this week is nobody will boo you because we'll be on the road," said Spurrier, whose fifth-ranked team plays at Kentucky on Saturday night. "I didn't think I would ever be in a position to say those sort of things coach­ing the Gators." 
Florida fans let their team 
have it last Saturday night when they struggled in the first half against Houston, a team that was 1-10 last year and en­tered the game as a 45-point underdog. , 
The Gators didn't take their frrst lead until midway through the first half and even though they pulled away for a 45-21 victory, the defense was derid­ed for allowing 421 yards to the Cougars. 
Spurrier, who has presided over an era of unparalled suc­cess at Florida, suggested that the fans were starting to expect perfection after watching the Gators win three of the last four Southeastern Conference titles, including two in a row. 
"Everytime they boo when anything happens out there, basically they're booing me," he said. "If they want to keep booing, maybe they want some new coaches around here. I don't know." 
Spurrier pointed out that the Gators have a 30-2 record at Florida Field since he became 
Lack of celebration hinders Hurricanes 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
Well behaved but badly beat­en, the Miami Hurricanes say they were too concerned about minding their manners at UCLA. 
The Hurricanes say they lacked emotion in Saturday's 3·1-8 loss,. and they blame the recent NCAA crackdown on excessive celebrations. 
"We were too worried about what was going to happen if we made a big play," defensive end Kenard Lang said Tuesday. "There was no enthusiasm, no excitement on the field. We're not that type of team. 
"We practice a certain way. In the game we didn't show the same emotion. It was like hav­ing two personalities. You can't have that." 
For many years at Miami, winning has meant not just blocking and tackling, but boasting and taunting. Some refer to the new 15-yard penal­ty for excessive celebrations as the Miami rule. 
"People want choir boys instead of football players," quarterback Ryan Collins said. 
The Hurricanes note that show-boating is still accepted in the NFL. Several players saw Dallas Cowboys running back Emmitt Smith remove his hel­met and pose for photogra­phers in the end zone after scoring a touchdown Monday night. 
"People love Dallas," Collins said. "When Dallas does it, it's all right. When we do it, it's a problem." 
New Miami coach Butch Davis 
wants his players to curb their 
behavior and improve their 
bad-boy image. He wants them 
to take a businesslike approach 
to games. 
But Davis admits the 
Hurricanes lacked intensity in 
the opener. 
"We have to play with 
tremendously more passion and emotion," he said. "We have to play a lot more aggres­sively. We were way too pas­sive in every phase of the game. I didn't think we were nasty and tough enough." 
Rather than blaming the NCAA crackdown, Davis point­ed to the youth of his players. 
"I think they had stage fright," he said. 
Only seven position players are seniors, and two -fullback Kevin Brinkworth and guard Ricky Perry -were injured at UCLA. Both may miss the rest of the season. 
UCLA gave Miami little reason to celebrate, but even when the score was close and the Hurricanes made a big play, they showed little emotion. 
"We just got up and walked back to the huddle," middle linebacker Ray Lewis said. 

coach in 1990 and an overall Spurrier said he doesn't believe mark of 50-12-1. ticket-buying fans have a right 
"But hey, that's part of to boo college players even human behavior," he said. when their team is putting out "After five or six years a coach a half-hearted effort. has been somewhere, they con­''I'm not saying the play tinue to want perfection. wasn't very, very bad," Sometimes, that's when people Spurrier said. ''I'll admit that. make changes. You wear out The play was probably bad your welcome. You're not per­enough that in the pro arena, if fect. The fans want perfection, we were a pro team, yeah, boo but that doesn't always happen, all you want. They're getting now does it? paid, they're supposed to play. 
"We're trying our best. But college sports, in my opin­Hopefully, the fans will under­ion, you':r:e not supposed to boo stand that (booing) does noth­college sports. ing but hurt our team." "Hopefully, our fans will real­
Responding to a question, ize that some of these young freshmen are not professionals, they're not going to be perfect. At Florida Field, the 'Swamp,' we don't need to be booing our players." 
Spurrier said none of the fans he had talked to would fess up to heckling the Gators, saying the jeers must have been com­ing from the student section. But the coach said most of the boos he heard were directed from the seats behind the Florida bench, which are reserved mostly for alumni. 
"That's the frrst time it's hap­pened in the six years I've been here," Spurrier said. 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-


ND FINANCE CLUB--­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

FIRST MEETING --­
-
....... -
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

Thursday, Sept. 7 --­
-
-

7:00PM ---­
-
-



The ~ordan Auditorium --­
-
-
-

(in the new College of Business --­
-
-
-


Administration Building) ­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

All Club members and interested students are -­
-
-

welcome. Important information about Career Night --­
-
-


and upcoming Club actiuities. Please bring $5 dues. ----­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-


Remember: Career Night on September 26. --­
.......
-


Top 30 Finance clubs attending. --­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

-Available for $10 at LAF info desk, includes: ticket, and bus ride 

to and from the game. 
-Bus leaves 3:30 (tentative) from the JACC parking lot-gate 10. 
5 e pt 1 2 -c u 
v 6. Dodg era 

0.fy1PUS t\111NISTRY 
P.S. You'll find out fast--you're not the only one with questions. 
-~------------------· -~~-~ ~--~-----­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 6, 1995 
• BASEBAll 
Irish 
continued from page 20

Orioles' 'Iron Man' equals Gehrig's feat 
to get him in there and see." 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE Even for Cal Ripken, the moment was overwhelming. 
Surrounded by players, umpires and fans who would not stop cheering, baseball's reluctant hero took his place in the history book Tuesday night, tying Lou Gehrig's hallowed record of playing 2,130 consec­utive games. 
He even punctuated the night by hitting a home run and mak­ing a play for the final out in the Baltimore Orioles' 8-0 win over the California Angels. 
"I don't know how everyone

.. 
else feels, but I'm exhausted. I'm even considering taking a few weeks off," Ripken told the fans after the game, drawing laughs. "You know I'll be here tomorrow." 
"Ripken had asked in advance that the game not be stopped in his honor. That was about the only thing that did not go his way all evening at Camden 
Colletto 
continued from page 20 
off receivers way too much. 
"There are things we're trying to do to improve ourselves," Colletto continued. "Notre Dame's Derrick Mayes is a tremendous talent, but we're not going to do anything special for him." 
But lest you think Colletto is dismissing the Irish all to­gether, he does acknowledge 
certain  individuals  on  the  
squad  that might give  the  
Boilermakers problems.  

·"They have a lot of fast, younger players on defense; I know they started a freshman at outside linebacker (Kory Mi­nor) and he played well," Col­letta said. "They have a lot of talent at running back, they have a good quarterback, and a lot of speed in Derrick Mayes. 
"We're getting ready to play a good team," Colletto contin­ued. "But if we play up to our Yards. 
The standing ovations began even before the first pitch. And when the game became official in the fifth inning and Ripken reached a record once consid­ered beyond approach, it was a chilling scene as the spotlighted 10-foot numbers on the B&O Warehouse beyond right field were flipped over to read 2130. 
The ceremony brought the loudest cheer yet, a 5-minute, 20-second standing ovation that included every player from the Orioles and Angels, and all four umpires. 
Ripken appeared to dab away tears from the corner of his eyes, and even three curtain calls could not quiet the crowd of 46,804, including many who have seen him grow up in the area. 
As if to prove he deserved such attention, Ripken went out reer home run leader Hank Aaron, Baltimore Colts Hall of Farner Johnny Unitas, baseball Hall of Farner Ernie Banks, ten­nis star Pam Shriver -an Orioles investor -basketball stars David Robinson and Joe Smith, Olympic speedskater Bonnie Blair and rock singer Joan Jett, a Maryland native. 

The whole event, meanwhile, was merely a prelude to what's coming Wednesday night. 
Rlpken was set to pass Gehrig's mark that evening when the Orioles again played California. When Ripken reach­es that mighty place, he will hold a mark that many thought was so unattainable that Gehrig's plaque at Yankee Stadium, erected shortly after he died in 1941, praises him as a man "whose amazing record of 2130 consecutive games should stand for all time." 
hand-written signs fans brought, and Ripken acknowl­edged the prolonged cheers by waving to all parts of the park. He got another standing ova­tion when he trotted out to his position at shortstop to start the sixth, and shook hands with second base umpire Greg Kosc. 
"He's never asked any acco­lades," said former teammate and current Angels infielder Rene Gonzales, who took part in the ceremonies. "It was very emotional." 
While Ripken contends the streak that started May 30, 1982, is merely a product of showing up every day to work -and some luck, since Ripken never broke a bone in his life ­others clearly recognized its significance. 
President Clinton and Vice President Gore were set to see the record-breaker; never 
Holtz seemed equally eager to see Rosenthal, who already stands 6'7" and weighs 305 pounds. 
"Mike Rosenthal has definite­ly shown a lot of maturity and he needs to have an opportu­nity, there's no doubt about it," Holtz said. "He's tough, physical, and he's a competi­tor. He has a little bit of men­tal toughness and the guys count on him." 
The Irish may need to rely on him quicker than expected if left tackle Chris Clevenger continues to struggle. 
"Our offensive line individu­ally plays well but they lack that mental toughness," Holtz noted. 
Clevenger particularly, has yet to live up to his vast poten­tial. Last week, the junior was beaten routinely and appears to be the man most likely to sit in favor of Rosenthal. 

and hit a home run the next Ripken matched the mark before have the nation's top inning, one of his three hits. when Tuesday's game became two executives attended the 
Most of the fans stayed in official, and a flood of black and same game outside Washing­their seats for a postgame cere­orange balloons was unleashed ton. mony, held in front of the pitch­as soon as the Angels were They were to be joined by er's mound with Orioles retired in the top of the fifth another sellout crowd that has announcer Jon Miller and Rip­inning. known of Ripken since he grew ken's wife, Kelly. A cartoon of Ripken and up about a half-hour away, and 
The festivities included a Top Gehrig was shown on the cen­has seen time turn his hair Ten list taped by David ter-field scoreboard, ac­from floppy and brown to thin Letterman and visits from ca-companying the dozens of and gray. 
Please Recycle The Observer 



Friday, September 8 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
Stepan Courts 
GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF
Co-Ree 6 on 6* 
An opportunity, In dialogue with other~, to deepen your understanding of youratlf, your values, your
*Mi.ni.mum of Two Females on the Court at all Ti.mes 
relationship with Chrlat. your experience of Christian 
community and aervlce. 
Music &Refreshments 
RETREAT

Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
OCTOBER 6-8,1995 
DATIES:

Deadline is Thursday, September 7 at 6:00 PM Sponsored By: 
Offi.ce of 
FORMS

ability, it makes no difference ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~l~co~h~o~l~&~~~~~~~~ September 4-8
AVAILABLE:
who's coming in here to play." = 

SIGN UP DEA.DLINE: Sept 8 -BEFORE 4:00 p.m. 
COM! JOIN TH! M;. WliAn~ T!AM 
• Encourage South Bend girls to take an interest in math, science, and other higher levels of education. 

CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 
• Informational Meeting: 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800
Thursday, Sept. 7 

Montgomery Theater 6:15 PM COST: $25.00 
• Or Call Lauren @ 4-2520 or Anne @ 4-1250. 


MEN'S SOCCER WEEKEND 
SIGHT YOUR OWN SUB. 

s• Party Sub As low as $37.95. DON'T GET SHUTOUT. 
FREE admission with your NDISMC Student ID. 
~----------------------------------~--------------­

Wednesday, September 6, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-


u.h 111o... f 1NE/{ W"I\TE.'iEitll, II WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1995 fY\AI.\IIE \JlomE"' \:>or<T .. (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own
I::J:'M~'t..'­
date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 cents a minute.) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE Caution now will prevent problems '1/EXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: later on. Check your bank balance to \1aking constructive changes will make sure you are not overdrawn. hoost your income. Include your Your mind may be on other things mate or business partner in your than money. You are lucky in love! decision-making. Look to outsiders Build nurturing relationships. lor financial backing; family LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Con­mvolvement will not be in your best centrate on taking better care of interest. An ill-advised romance yourself and your resources. Stand could set you on a collision course up for your principles. Those in pro­with an old friend. Consider the con­motional work can score big gains ,equences! this month. Be more affectionate 
~ CELEBRITIES BORN ON with your loved ones. Forget old I'HIS DAY: actress Swoosie Kurtz, grievances.
CALVIN AND HOBBES BILL WATTERSON 
comedian JoAnne Worley, country SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): ,inger David Allan Coe, basketball The written word could be your
io\J ll.t-~l:l r II. tki\L ?.' 

'{OO \)ON\-Gl\lE Mt. ANY PLUS, 'IO'J Gt.\ \tl STI'.'{ UP player Kevin Willis. passport to financial security. You A'Kt. GO\t-IG 10 W\-\i\1 KIN\) OF 
1ROJBlt. Th!-\\Q-1\, i\ND Hi\ll' 1'\N. 1-\0\JR Pf>..'S\ YOOR ARIES (March 21-April 19): communicate well -cash in on Mf'¥E II. DEAL . D~L?P II-\ 
~E\.L Pli\'i /'\ GII.ME. BED\\ME. You may want to ignore something your talents. Pay bills promptly 

1'\Cl\ MP..K\1'\G 
N'-1'1 DEJ\L! l 
, . 

DILBERT 
YOU'I\E. NOT WE.LCOME.I-\ERE, r-'\Y WORK HERE. 15 NOT DONE UNTIL I HAVE. POUNCED ON 1"\Y NATURAl E.NE.r-'\Y 
insurance policies carefully. social event is forthcoming. Express CANCER (June 2l-Ju1y 22): A your heartfelt appreciation. 
Wl-\0 ARE.. YOU, ANO good day to negotiate advantageous AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): deals for your business and yourself. A change of routine could be exact­
WI-\AT ARE YOU DOING 
Your instincts about people and situ­ly what you need. Others look to ations are almost uncanny! Push you for leadership. Follow your .1head with money projects. Ask the intuition in an affair of the heart.\ hank to raise your credit line. You know what you want and how 
ON MY K.EYI30ARD? 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be glad to get it. 1f a delay arises at work. You can PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): use the extra time to explore new You may be eager to bet on a "sure Jirections. Look for ways to thing." Your reputation, as well as mcrease your income. Deal with any your assets, is at stake. Be careful. personal problems in an upbeat way Others may be envious of your good tonight. fortune. Keep a low profile. Show 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): humility. 
. 1¢4C .···· s aDirector c>t Remotes who ls responsible I)J .!>ervice at SYR's and other functions. cast.ets are also needed to compile E}w~ reports. A position is also available 
for 
t~ l)ir~qtor \Vith tile duties of producing football · all games, and a. talk show. i · ·· e station on the 2nd floor o N~gh~~ . 
South 
Fettuccine Alfredo 
Grilled Pork Chops •• Arroz Con Pollo 
Have something to say? Use 
..

Observer classifieds. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 2&Chimney 52 50's White channel House name
1 The year 1 006 27 Carp 5419904 Hardware items Newman­30 Imagined 
10 Kenya's Daniel Woodward film -Moi 32 Guitarist Paul 
58 Emilia's 14Crib 33 "The Most 
husband Happy-" 

15 Bird with a 59 1904 Physiology fanlike crest 35 Brown Nobelist 
16lsraeli P.M. 60 Bother
seaweeds Golda 36 1984 Diane 
62 Stair part 11 Cartoon dog Keaton film 
63 Comfortable sound 38 Flaubert story 
64 Kind of dye18 Measure of 

41 Egg producer 
65 Roll-call current 42Acid response19 Unit of real 45 Cops' cry at the 68 Smell and taste, estate 

door e.g.

20 1939 Robert 47 Before 67 Soak up
Donat film 23 Cores 48 In --parentis 
24 Vote for 49 Kitten's sound DOWN 25 Elec. day 50 Siesta 1 Wharton degree 
2 Slash 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 3 Clearly viewable 4 Window cover 

5 Harvesting 
Punta by Christopher Hurt machines 

2&Too 39 Be at the 48 Slangy hat & Viscous 29 Mitt controls 51 Babble7 Dueling blade 31 Electric--40 Holist, perhaps 53 Henry VIII sextet a Like bad apples 42 Open galleries 55 Informal refusal 33German9 Be furious 
philologist 43 Playful musical sa Bergman10 Nanjing nanny 
Wilhelm passage collaborator 11 Solo musicale 44 Period Nykvist
34 "It's --cry ..." 12 Service station 57"Gil--"
K2 Abb 46 Gauchos roam
36 
'e.g.: r. these

feature 61 Film policeman 
37 Country music 13 Gets the VCR giant of the 40's ready 

and 50's Get answers to any three clues 38 Michael Chiklis by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­22 Starter of a sort TV series, with 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
23 Super Bowl org. "The" 
1 ou hear today. A critical remark 'trikes a responsive nerve. Change your attitude toward people who can help you. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): I!ave the courage of your convic­tions as you strive to reach a coveted goal. Hang in there, even when progress seems to be at a standstill. r:amily affairs deserve more of your time and attention. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ask ,1 doctor important questions. The answers you receive will relieve ten­'ion. Pay more attention to financial matters. Look over investments and while searching for ways to increase your assets. Consult experts before making investments. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A request may confuse you. If restless in your job, check out new employment opportunities. Postpone making a final decision until the lat­est facts and figures are available. Make a difference in a teen-ager's life. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): The financial picture brightens. A long-term commitment may be in order. Get advice on the best way to proceed. A gift or invitation to a 
-






SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, September 6,1995 
Holtz remains optimistic with shaken Irish 
.. 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sporn Editor 
Usually the week following a win against Northwestern brings out the ultimate pes­simist in Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz. This week, following a stunning 17-15 loss to the Wildcats, quite the opposite has occurred, as Holtz has made a con­scious effort of putting every ounce of his opti­mism into the shaken Irish. 
"We are not a bad team," Holtz said. 
""Had ·'we won that 
football game I would have said this week that we have a pretty good chance of being a good football team." 
And even though plenty of weaknesses were apparent last Saturday, Holtz was still able to point out a number of positives, especially on the defense. 
"I think our linebackers will be solid football players and as far as the defensive line is concerned, I was pleased, even though we were not very big. I think we have some pretty good athleticism." 
Holtz may get a better indi­cator of his defense this week 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sporn Writer 
Jim Colletto does not care about Notre Dame. 
That's right. The Purdue head coach just isn't interested in the Notre Dame football team. 
"I couldn't care less about Notre Dame," Colletto said yes­terday in his weekly press con­ference. "They're of no con­cern to us." 
Colletto is concerned about the play of his own Boilermakers, who knocked off then 23rd-ranked West Virginia 26-24 last Saturday. The fact their long-time inter-state rivals fell.to Northwestern the same day does not factor into Colletto's game-plan. 
"I have no concern for Notre Dame and no sympathy for Notre Dame," Colletto said. "They have to play their game, at Purdue. The Boilermakers boast a Reisman Trophy can­didate in Mike Alstott running behind a mammoth offensive line. 

"We don't match up with them particularly well," Holtz noted. "They're awful big in the offensive line." 
Another area that Holtz was pleased with were his special teams. 
"I think our kicking game will be pretty solid," Holtz said. 
Other than on special teams, the only true freshman to see time last week was linebacker Kory Minor. Minor's 
impressive outing apparently convinced Holtz that it was right time to give more frosh a chance. Tailback Autry Denson and tackle Mike Rosenthal are the two most likely candidates to see action against the Boilermakers. 
"Denson is the one guy capa­ble of being a big play ball carrier," Holtz said of the 5'10", 175-pound Florida native. "He's not particularly large but he has very, very good quickness. If he can pro­tect the football, we will get him in there some to run the football on occasion. We need 




Courtesy of Purdue Sports Information Purdue head coach Jim Colletto says he "couldn't care less about Notre Dame" as he prepares the Boilermakers to face the Irish on Saturday. 
see IRISH I page 18 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Colletta projects indifferent air to"'rard Notre Dame 
at the half I thought we could have had more points," Col­letto said. "But then we went to sleep after the half, didn't play well, and they were able to come back." 
The Mountaineers scored 14 unanswered points in the third quarter, and added another ten in the fourth. Purdue scored again to take a two point lead, and held on to win thanks to a missed 26-yard field goal at­tempt by West Virginia's Bryan Baumann . 
Colletto also sees some weak­nesses in his defense, but stresses that he is doing noth­ing different in preparation for the Irish. 
"We need to improve our sec­ondary play as we move toward the Big Ten," Colletto said. "We had some problems Satur­day with run support. We laid 
see COLLETTO I page 18 



and we have to play ours. We're more concerned about our problems than Notre 
Football 
vs. Northwestern September 2, 1:30 EST 
Volleyball 
vs. Northwestern September 1, 8 p.m. vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 
Cross Country 
at Ohio State September 15 

Dame." throughout the game. 
Of major concern to Colletto is "We were off to a great start keeping up his squad's intensity Saturday. Even winning 19-0 
• 
Ripken ties Gehrig's streak see page 18 

• 
Miami makes more excuses see page 16 

• 
Cowboys sign deal with Nike see page 13 


Women's Soccer 
vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Valparaiso September 8, 7:30p.m. vs. Syracuse September 10, 1 p.m. 





