r-----------------------------------~~~-~.~-~0~.~~~..~.-----------------­
• I; I' I I • • I • • I I I' I If' 1 • ~ 

Friday, September 29, 1 995• Vol. XXVII No. 30 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Debate continues over support staff salaries 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
News Writer 
The issues raised during last Thursday's Gender Studies fac­ulty forum concerning support staff salaries continue to be discussed this week, with pan­elists Jean Porter and Teresa Ghilarducci having to defend the data used to substantiate their points. 
"I think the information dis­tributed at the forum was in­complete," said director of Hu­man Resources Roger Mullins. "Some of the comparisons drawn were not made cor­rectly; it's not comparing apples to apples." 
The main bone of contention for administrators was the charge that Notre Dame secre­taries make less than others in the South Bend area. Univer­sity President Rev. Edward Malloy called the figures into question during a homily Sun­day in Siegfried Hall. 
According to Mullins, the av­erage secretary at Notre Dame makes $20,696. The St. Joseph's county average is $19,932. The 1995 survey, conducted by Project Future, found the University to be around the market mean in most classifications. 
However, Ghilarducci would like a more careful look at the 
see STAFF Ipage 4 

Flood appointed new WVFI station manager 
By KRISTI KOLSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
Campus AM radio station WVFI has named Michael Flood the new station manager for the 1995-96 academic school year. 
The station officially returned to "on-air" status Sept. 25 after a three week hiatus. 
"WVFI has the potential to be an outstanding entertainment and informational source. I can only hope that my efforts advance its standing in the Notre Dame community," said Flood. 
Flood assumes his position after former station manager ~en Maverick resigned earlier this month, citing outside time commitments and "philosophi­cal differences" with how the station was operated. 
Flood was nominated to re­place Maverick from outside the station rather than from the current staff. 
''I'm sure they weren't pleased when someone from the station was not chosen," said Flood. "But I am willing to learn and I share my ideas in a forum. I don't dictate what I want done and so far the board has responded." 
According to WVFI's Chief Announcer Justin Cole, Flood's appointment is indicative of the administration's poor percep­tion of the station. 
"I have nothing against Mike Flood," said Cole, "But we have an entire plan for filling the station manager position. Yet, the administration has passed the assistant manager over 
see WVFI Ipage 4 


By KRISTI KOLSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
A rabbi, a priest and a nun were walking down the street. Stop me if you've heard this 
one before. 
So the rabbi holds a chair in the theology department. 
No, real­ly... 
N o t r e 


Dame has Signer long been regarded as a bastion of Catholicism. Some might be surprised to learn that Rabbi Michael Signer holds the Abrams Chair in Theology and is one of only two rabbis in this country that works in a Catholic institution. 
Although Signer, a member of South Bend's Temple Bethel, fmds himself in the minority he is not intimidated about being at such a renowned Catholic university. 
"At Notre Dame there is cer­tainly no apologetics about making religion a central part of contemporary culture," said Signer. "One does not have to be embarrassed to speak about matters religiously. That was captivating for me. To see whether or not I could live as part of a minority culture while being respected." 
A member of the Reform sect of Judaism, Rabbi Signer was appointed to the Abrams Chair in Theology in 1991. Although there have been other profes­sors of the Jewish faith teach­ing at Notre Dame, Signer is the first rabbi and the first to hold a chaired position. 
"Rabbi Signer was offered the appointment to endorse the long-standing Jewish and Christian relations and to foster 
see RABBI Ipage 8 


Miracle at Medjugolje? 
Theologians debate authenticity of visions ofMary 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 

It has been the destination of choice for thousands of Catholics on pilgrimage. It has captured the hearts of its visitors, who have left with their faith reaffirmed, their souls uplifted. 
But is the miracle at Medjugorje all it's made out to be? 
On June 24, 1981, six youths from the Croatian mountain town of Medjugorje claimed receiving near­ly daily apparitions of the Virgin Mary. The reports, said to still con­tinue today, spurred a mass of pilgrimages by hopeful Catholics world-wide, and until the conflict in Bosnia made travel to that part of Europe dangerous, the visits contin­ued years after the initial sighting. 
The lore of Medjugorje comes to Notre Dame this weekend, when Sister Emmanuel of Medjugorje hosts a retreat open to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
According to the six youths, the messages of the Madonna include calls for a more resolute faith in God and in Jesus Christ, a greater devotion to prayer, a strict fast in reparation for sin, and a plea for personal peace in every individual, among other calls. 
These messages remain con­sistent with the teachings of the Catholic Church, but to this day the Vatican has made no official judg­ment on the visions. 
According to Father Ed O'Connor, a member of the theology depart­ment and an avowed believer in the visions, the reason is a matter of prudence. 
"The Church has to be extremely careful, because if it openly sup­ported the visions at Medjugorje and they turned out to be false, the Church would be in a difficult posi­tion," he said. 
"But I suspect that the Church will eventually come out in favor of them," O'Connor added. "The Pope has shown a lot of support for them. 
"I myself am strongly convinced in their authenticity. The truthful­ness of the youths' visions is astounding. They have never erred in reporting the teachings of the Church, and they come from a Muslim family whose parents had no exposure. to Catholicism." 
O'Connor's support of the ap­paritions, however, is not shared by a number of his colleagues in the theology department. Kern Trembath, assistant chairman of the department and an Episcopalian, cites two reasons for his skepticism. 
"If Mary should appear to anyone, why doesn't she appear to non­Catholics?" Trembath said. "It would seem to me that her mes­sages would be more effective on those who do not yet believe. 
"Secondly, the messages affirm fairly traditional, even conservative, teachings," Trembath continued. "Why don't the messages speak on matters of social justice, for ex­ample?" 
The bishop of the diocese in which Medjugorje is located also is 
see MIRACLE Ipage 4 

o 1 • I I I' I\ I o • I 1, '1 1 I • I • 
Friday, September 29, i995

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Africa's Comoros Islands overrun by mercenaries
The Question of a lifetime 
I keep running into them. -those people who ask, "So what do you want to do with the rest of your life?" It's like now that we're in college, we're prime tar­gets for this question: "What do you want to do with your life?" 
And I was content with declaring my ma­jors, but that's no good. -------­It's not good enough to state your majors anymore, these people want to know all of the details about the rest of your life. The rest of your life. That's a long time. It is such a perplexing question, isn't it? 
I mean, it's great if you know what you want to do with the rest of your life. It's great if you can say, "I'm gonna be a doctor or an architect." You've got definite plans. Congratulations. 
But what if you don't know? What if you can't say for sure? Well, join the club. And so if you don't know how to respond to this question, maybe you could rattle off snappy sarcastic retorts like: 
•"Well 
I was going to fmish college and pursue a career in journalism, but I just signed up for a 15 year psychology study on the long range effects of apathy ... So I guess nothin' ... Why?" 

•"Did 
my mother pay you to ask me that? Did she? ANSWER ME, DAMNIT!" 

•Say 
nothing, but pretend there is a big bug on your shoulder and flail at it hysterically. 

•"I'm 
not real sure, but I am playing the lottery just in case. Gotta play to win, you know." 

•"I'm 
waiting for divine intervention. Until then, I'm trying not to think about it." 

•"Well, 
I'm really not sure. What are you planning on doing? Maybe we can work something between the two of us. Got any special talents?" 

•"I 
was thinking of applying for a position with Publisher's Clearing house. You know that lady who· drives around in the Prize Patrol van and distributes the checks? I wouldn't mind doing that with the rest of my life." 

•"That's 
a startling question. So much so that I've just soiled myself. You'll have to excuse me." 


But I look at it like this: As long as you're doing something positive today, it's okay if you don't have a definite answer to the ques­tion. I think the future is all about what you're doing today. Because, actually, you can only have a handle on right now­today. 
You can plan all you want about what you'll do someday, but unless you're doing something right now, it's all a dream. And the fact that we're all here-and working hard and studying hard-I think that counts for a lot. 
So I think it's okay to not have some defi­nite impressive plan. And I think it's okay to be comfortable with that. It just takes some of us longer than others. 
So the next time someone asks about your plans for your life, tell them not to worry )lecause.you have got it all under control. And you can walk away knowing that the joke is really on them. And, besides, some­body has gotta drive the prize patrol van. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer.  
• Tootw's STAFF  
News Jamie Heisler Tom Moran Sports Andy Cabiness Graphics Brian Blank Viewpoint Michael O'Hara  Accent Kristin Trabucco Joey Crawford Krista Nannery Production Allison Fashek David Diaz Lab Tech David Murphy  



Dole holds fundraising lead 
WASHINGTON 
Bob Dole increased his fund-raising lead in the Republican presidential sweepstakes during the most recent quarter with earnings of over $5 mil­lion. He has earned over $18 million so far. President Clinton expected his quarter earnings to equal or exceed the $9 million he raised during the first three months of his campaign. 

Texas Sen. Phil Gramm will report quarterly contribu­tions of about $2.4 million, and has about $4.5 million in remaining cash. Former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, meanwhile, raised about $1 million for the quarter and has just under $1 million remaining. Among the other GOP hopefuls, Pat Buchanan expects to raise about $2 million in the quarter. However, the campaign has only about $350,000 in remaining cash. Indiana's Richard Lugar is expected to report raising about $900,000 in the quarter, and has cash on hand of about $400,000. Sen. Arlen Specter, meanwhile, will probably raise less than $500,000 for the quarter. 
New obesity drug being evaluated 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 
Scientists debated Thursday whether the government 
should approve the nation's first new obesity drug since 
1973, a compound that makes people believe they are 
full even though they have eaten less. But the drug, 
dexfenfluramine, has been shown to cause brain damage 
at very high doses in animals, prompting concern about 
how it would affect humans. The manufacturer, 
Interneuron Pharmaceutical Inc., told a Food and Drug 
Administration panel that the levels it would suggest are 
too low to hurt anyone, and maintained that the need for 
a better drug to treat the 78 million obese Americans is 
vital. "We are literally in the midst of an obesity epidem­
ic," said Judith Stern, vice president of the American 
Obesity Associationt: this drug would be "a valuable 
tool." The panel of scientists will recommend whether 
the FDA should approve the drug. 
Monkeys on the loose in Texas 
DILLEY, Texas 

Hundreds of escaped Japanese snow monkeys are roaming the mesquite-covered range in these parts. This being Texas, animals rights advocates fear the friendly­faced monkeys may wind up seriously dead. For the last five years, the animals have been free to roam by climb­ing over or through the broken-down electric fence that used to keep them confmed to a 58-acre animal-behavior laboratory. Some landowners are annoyed that the mon­keys are raiding their deer feeders, and rummaging through hunting blinds and ranch houses, state officials said. An internal Texas Parks and Wildlife Department memo on controlling the Japanese macaque population of about 600 set off alarms among animal-rights activists. The memo, which became public over the sum­mer, said there is nothing in state or federal law to pre­vent people from killing the monkeys. "We're not advo­cating people go out and shoot monkeys, but we do need to tell landowners ... it's legal to do so if they wish," said. Matt Wagner, the agency's non-game program leader. 
Gambling in southwestern Michigan? 
INDIANAPOLIS 

An Indian tribe is one step closer to opening a land­based casino just across the Michigan border. The Pok­agon Band of Potawatomi Indians was among three tribes that signed a gambling compact this week with Michigan Gov. John Engler. The compact calls for rev­enue sharing between the tribes and the state. The Michigan legislature must approve the compact before it can go to federal officials for final approval. The compact would clear the way for casino gaming on tribal lands. Donna Helinski, a Pokagon spokeswoman, said she expected little opposition from the legislature. Pokagon tribal leaders have said the casino will be located some­where in southwestern Michigan. First, tribal lands must be acquired and placed into trust. The tribe is headquar­tered in Dowagiac, Mich., just north of South Bend. The Pokagons earlier this month signed a five-year develop­ment agreement with Harrah's Entertainment Inc. to run the operation. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Friday, Sept. 29 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Sept. 29. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
·~~~·-~ ~a£&
S~~;e~ T-~t~;,;;s Rain ~~~;;;e~ ·i~df ~~-=. Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Aberdeen, SO  69  48  Columbus  80  56  Minneapolis 72  56  
Atlanta  76  56  Dallas  92  72  New 011eans89  68  
Baltimore  73  50  Denver  72  40  NewYork  68  56  
Boston  59  50  los Angeles81  63  Phi~lpllia74  55  
Chicago  80  59  Mlami  91  79  Phoenix  92  68  

• • t 1 j I I I 

Friday, September 29, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
SMC Multicultural Week promotes awareness 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's Office of Multi­cultural Affairs will stage its third annual Multicultural week from September 30-0ctober 6. Maricella Ramirez, Director of the Office of Multicultural Af­fairs, is coordinating the week's activities. 
According to Ramirez, the week "is an excellent opportu­nity for students to experience other cultures."A lecture and colloquium with Latin ttmerican Writer Carlos Fuentes highlights the week. According to Ramirez, the lec­ture will be a positive experi­ence because Fuentes' "whole philosophy is multicultural." 
The objective behind Multicultural Week is "to pro­mote different cultures in order to provide avenues to be exposed to different cultures," said Ramirez. "If we don't give students an opportunity to learn of other cultures, how will our students function in a multicultural society?" 
The Office is planning events throughout the year that will highlight different cultures. 
The Office is also sponsoring a poster contest in order to in­crease student participation. The deadline will be Monday, October 2. 
A workshop entitled "Roots of Latin American Music" will be held on Tuesday, Oct. 3rd at 
3:00 in Haggar Parlor, and the Boston-based band Sol Y Canto will play later on Tuesday evening at 7:00 in the Little Theatre. 
On Thursday October 5, there will be A Night of International Music and Food in Haggar Par­lor at 7:00 p.m. 
The Medical Scientist Training Program at the 
Medical College of Wisconsin offers a combined M.D.-Ph.D. degree program. Trainees receive full tuition scholarships and stipends throughout their studies. Highly qualified students with a background in research are encouraged to apply. The medical school and training program application deadline 
is November 15. 


MEDICAL COLLEGE OF WISCONSIN 
Write or call: Medical Scientist Training Program Medical College of Wisconsin 8701 Watertown Plank Road Milwaukee, WI 53226-0509 Phone: (414) 456-8641 
1-800-457-2775 E-mail: mstp@post.its.mcw.edu 
Provost search nears finish 
Board to complete the initial selection process by October 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor 
Sources close to University President Father Edward Mal­loy say that a candidate to replace retir­


ing Provost Cullinan Timothy O'Meara may be presented to the Board of Trustees at the body's October meeting. 
"We hope to complete the ini­tial (selection) process by the end of October," said Matt Cul­linan, assistant to the presi­dent. "Once we receive the in­put from all those involved, we plan on taking a candidate to the October meeting of the Board of Trustees." 
"This is all tentative," Culli­nan noted. 
In a letter written to the fac­ulty on Aug. 3, Malloy, who heads the Provost Search Committee, discussed the steps that have been taken by the committee. The group consists of five elected members of the faculty and one student repre­sentative. 
He reported that initial dis­cussions concerned criteria the committee believed the new provost should meet: "A distin­guished scholar-teacher with significant administrative ex­perience who demonstrated the ability to lead Notre Dame's ongoing academic development, and to appreciate and preserve Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter." 
The next step in the process, Malloy said, involved the com­mittee's solicitation of nomina­tions for the position. This was done through various means. 
The committee placed adver­tisements in the "Chronicle of Higher Education," "Black Is­sues in Higher Education" and "Hispanic Outlook," and it sent letters to presidents and chan­cellors at "peer institutions" and all faculty members. Ac­cording to section one article II of the Academic Articles writ­ten in the University of Notre Dame Faculty Handbook, the committee accepts nominations "both within and without" the University. 
"We were pleased with the size and quality of the pool (of candidates)," Malloy said in his letter. 
Once this pool was estab­lished, each candidate was evaluated, and it was decided whether or not he or she should advance to further "rounds of competition." 
The candidate pool as of Aug. 31 of this year consisted of four finalists and two semi-finalists whose qualifications for finalist status are currently being con­sidered. Once deliberations over the semi-finalists have been completed, Malloy said, "We will officially enter the final stage of the search for a new provost." 
Upon completion of this pro­cedure, the President consults with the elected faculty mem­bers of the Academic Council about all serious candidates. 
A,ccording to Malloy's letter, the members of the Provost Search Committee and the elected faculty on the Academic Council, as well as the Chair of the Faculty Senate and student leaders, will have an opportu­nity to meet with each remain­ing candidate. After the inter­views are complete, everyone involved in the process will be asked to provide "written feed­back" to the committee. With this input, the committee will forward a slate of acceptable candidates to the president. 
Later, according to the Aca­demic Articles, the President reports the complete results of this consultation to the Board of Trustees, along with a personal recommendation. 
According to the Academic Articles, the Provost "has re­sponsibility, under the Presi­dent, for the administration, coordination, and development of all the academic activities and functions of the Univer­sity." The Provost is elected by the Board of Trustees "for an indefinite period upon recom­mendation of the President," and the appointment is subject to formal review every five years. 
Members of the committee other than Malloy, who were elected by the Academic Council, include Hafiz Atassi, professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering, Carolyn Callahan, associate professor of accountancy, Cornelius De­laney, professor of philosophy, Fernand Dutile, associate dean and professor of law, Andrew Sommese, Professor of math­ematics and Stacey Kielbasa, a senior student representative majoring in government a~d international studies. 
4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 
r-----------,
$5 DEAL
I I 
Any Large I4" Pizza Only $5 
I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price Call 1-6902
I -1I COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
1----------­
$10 DEAL
I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas 
I I
and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 Call 1-6902
I I 
L COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
.J 

r-----------,
$4 DEAL
I I 
Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 
I I
Now, That's a Deal! Call 1-6902
I -1I COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
1----------­
DOUBLE DEAL
I I 
You get 2 Large 14" 1 item 
I I
Pizzas for Only $9 Call 1-6902
I I 
L COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
.J 

CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
--------· ----~------....,.."I'"T""1""!"'1"T''!-"''I"""'""~~............~~--"!""\"'"'""''"'!""'"'-----------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 29; 1995 
Genetics panel to hold forum 
Special to the Observer 
An international panel of more than 30 scholars will make an interdisciplinary ex­amination of the Human Genome Project in a confer­ence Oct. 5-8 {Thursday­Sunday) at the Center for Continuing Education. 
Titled "Controlling Our Des­tinies: Historical, Philosophical, Social and Ethical Perspectives on the Human Genome Pro­ject," the conference will be held under the joint sponsor­ship of the U.S. Department of Energy and Notre Dame's Reilly Center for Science, Tech­n,.ology aQ.!l Values. 
Initiated in 1991 by a world­wide network of research cen­ters, the Human Genome Pro­ject is attempting to define a primary locator map and even­tually to specify the complete code sequencing of the entire human genetic structure by 2004. 
A genetic map could lead to the identification and potential treatment of a wide variety of diseases. However, that kind of information also could cre­ate an equally wide variety of problems. 
Panelists at the Notre Dame conference will provide back­ground on • the scientific aspects of the project and explore in detail the complex social, ethical, cultural, reli­gious and legal issues associat­ed with it. 
For more information, call 
{219) 631-6691. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Shaldee Vitamins &Herb 
Roseland 
272-0606 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books • 25, 000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$1.00 

• 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday tbrougb Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 [2191 232-8444 
WVFI 
continued from page 1 
twice. It is as ifthe administra­tion thinks we are too dumb to handle ourselves." 
Although WVFI has made its way back onto the airwaves, questions of professionalism, image and student support still surround the AM station's quest for FM status. 
Mter working in commercial radio for five years, Flood hopes that his prior experi­ences will help bring structure to WVFI's AM, non-commer­cial environment and bring new life to the station's dream of going FM. 
"I want to give WVFI struc­ture," said Flood. "Free-fall is fine, but it could really hurt the station's image." 
Flood said his experience at commercial radio stations taught him about the necessity of organization among board members and staff. 
"One thing I want to start is board and staff meetings once a week," he said. "We also plan to hold announcers responsible for their shifts. Failure to be prompt will result in schedule changes." 
With these modifications, Flood hopes that there will be an improvement in the final product that goes out over the airwaves. 
"We want to focus all our at­tention in improving announc­er air performance," said Flood. "I plan to install equip­ment in the room that would record the DJ's voice. Those tapes would then be reviewed by myself and the Chief Announcer." 
Cole is skeptical about some of Flood's ideas for change. 
"[Flood] has a lot of good ideas but he has a lot to learn about college radio. It is not like commercial radio," said Cole. 
Since WVFI is non-commer­cial, it does not have to worry about selling air time to adver­tisers. 
"This allows for a great free­dom of expression," said Cole. "We are not here to play Hootie and the Blowfish and MTV buzz clips so that we can feed the corporate media. We want to be about discovery." 
Although Flood said he plans to stay true to WVFI's mission of promoting music that does not receive much airplay, he indicated that there is opening for more mainstream music. 
"An 80's show in the dining hall is my first step at showing people we are here for the en­tire campus," said Flood. 
Beyond music, Flood said that one of the other keys to radio is the delivery of infor­mation. 
"We hope to join the AP wire, or work with a commer­cial station in South Bend to provide state and national news," he said. "We also have a long-term goal of including campus news." 
In addition, Flood said the new opportunities will improve the station's image around campus. 
"We want a responsible voice of. student representa­tion. This has been good in the past, but we really want to enhance it this year." 
The new station manager also hopes to reverse the image that WVFI is a small clique. 
According to Flood, there are over 115 announcers on staff. 
"The people that work down here are the same people that you sit next to at the football games or in the dining hall or your 4.0ers. We are not a radical fringe." 

~ ~eJd,-u,-S~ A~ 
•Vintage Levis •Over 40 Styles of Hats,t •Urban Outfitters •Belts • Socks • Tights ..t •Coats/Jackets •Handbags/Purses , THE •Handcrafted Beaded •Petites 
& Silver Jewelry 1912 s. 11th (u.s. 31133) 
2 'h miles north of state line Hours: M-F 10-8, Sat. 1()-6 
STYLE 

Layaway & Belle Plaza, Ni!Ss 
Open Sun. 12-4

Co., INC• Alterations Available 687-9123 begiMing Sept. 1st 
Staff 
continued from page 1 
survey. "What we need to see is the median salary, where fifty percent of the employees fall behind," she stated. "To compare averages skewers the numbers toward the high end." 
More important than a sheer numbers comparison for Ghi­larducci is an equality issue. The starting salary for Notre Dame support staff is $6.70, lower than that ·of service­maintenance staffs. According to Ghilarducci, Notre Dame is the only institution in the area where that disparity exists. 
"If around the community av­erage is good enough for our secretaries, why is it not good enough for the service-mainte­nance staff, who make more than the local average?" Ghi­larducci asks. 
However, human resources would like to prevent a debate of worth between support staff and service maintenance. 
"We shouldn't diminish the importance of service mainte­nance," Mullins said. "The work they do is critical, and it is often a work environment that is less than ideal. I want to avoid sending a message that either group is less impor­tant than the other." 
Mullins agrees that a dispari­ty exists, but defends the pay structure. 
"What people fail to realize is that for most service-mainte­nance positions, there is a set rate of pay," Mullins said. 
"The wages may start higher for those in service positions, but there is not as much room for advancement as in the sup­port staff ranks." 
However, these advancement structures are also a major concern among staff and facul­ty. 
"The single most frustrating thing is when you have a secre­tary who is excellent in every way," Theology Department chair Larry Cunningham said. "But she can't better herself and earn a higher salary be­cause of the rigidity of her job description." 
University secretaries are placed in one of five categories, according to human resources. The job descriptions determine what level secretary one be­longs to, and pay is determined by those levels. However, ac­cording to Porter and Ghilar­ducci, these job descriptions lack flexibility to recognize new skills or responsibilities of the staff. 
"I would like to see sub-cate­gories within the classifica­tions," Cunningham said. "That way a person can see tangible rewards for taking courses or learning new skills." 
"It is my understanding that a lot of secretaries are not satisfied with the job classifica­tions available, that they are overly rigid," says Arts and Letters Dean Harold Attridge. "However, I believe there is sympathy in Human Resources for this issue." 
Mullins says his department is responding to the question of classification with a study to be 

'The Best Tan Under The Sun" 
• Beds, Booths & Euros 
• 
Open 7 Days A Week 

• 
Convenient Hours 

• 
Student Discounts 


Guaranteed Satisfaction! 
256-9656 
GRAft &: MdUNuY NI!AIK·M.m 

IRISH ARE STILL NO.I/ 
COifE EH]OY OUR RWRRD-WIHHIHG PIUR liND LISTEN TO THE IIREIIS BEST BLUES BIIHDI 

Friday, September 29, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Alywin: Continued economic growth saved Chile 
Former president outlined path following dictatorship 
By JOSHUA NELSON 
News Writer 
The continuation of economic growth and improvement of the status of the poor in Chile posed an important challenge while the country recovered (rom a military dictatorship. according to Patricio Alywin, the former President o( Chile. 
The Keenan Hall Lecture Se­ries featured Alywin Thursday night in a speech on the eco­nomic status of Chile. The pre­sentation focused on the reduc­tion of the number of poor peo­ple and how the democratic party was able to come to power. 
He offered a brief history of the fall of the military dictator­ship in Chile that allowed the Christian Democratic Party to take over the government and return it to a state of social normalcy. 
"The challenge of the gov­ernment was to keep and main­tain economic growth in an open market economy and at­tend to the policy of the poor through a plan called Growth With Equity," Aylwin said. 
The policy stressed two points based on a free market economy and foreign invest­ment. 
By focusing on the poor and working classes of his commu­nity, Aylwin was able increase investment while reducing the number of poor people from 
5.3 million to 4 million people. 
The democratic party was able to re-establish itself with a plebiscite to deny the extension of the dictatorship for another eight years. 
After elections in 1989, Aylwin was chosen to continue the policies that had benefited the country under the military 

The Observer/ David Murphy Patricio Alywin, former president of Chile, speaks to students about the economic status of his country. 
regime and improve on the social problems that oppressed many citizens. 
"The north (the United States and European countries) must be loyal to the rules of the game and not become discrimi­natory in the trading world," he said in regards to outside help in restructuring trade relations. 
Before being elected presi­dent, Alywin was an attorney in Chile. 
He often held meetings to dis­cuss democratic ideas and Chile's future prior to his elec­tion. 
His election brought an end to sixteen years of military dic­tatorship under General Pinochet and he served from 1990-1994. 
Saturday, Sept. 30 Two bands • REVEREND FUNK • • TACKLE Box • 
Monday, Oct. 2 
It's the kickoff of: 
MONDAY NIGHT LIVE AMATEUR STAR SEARCH AUDITION NIGHT 
plus 

introducing Trash Can Night live musical entertainment: Five groups from the Chicago areal 
• DA-BOMB • CHI-TWINK • STRAIGHT GIN • 
• E-JACK-U-LATION • FLOSH • 
plus other guest acts 
A Night of Entertainment You would Have to go to NY or LA to seel SHOW STARTS AT 7:00PM 

Thank You: 
To all of those Winoski's in 812 who helped bail me out of a tight situation 
To everyone who lent a shoulder, or an ear. To everybody who listened, offered to help, or just stood by me. To everybody who helped me focus on my studies, or just helped me study. 
To my therapist in P.W. who took more than her share, and fought to the bitter end to help me. 
You are all the greatest. You don't know what its like to have so much support, so much care, and so much love. I am forever indebted to all of you. 
Love and Friendship, Scott 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry 
{7) Mi<hianAi Fint Registry ofPrivau ;:JJ Homesfor ND-SMC P~Zm~ll and Frimds 

Try the OPTION! 
Graduation, Football, JPW, Freshman Orientation, etc. 

WilmA L &lmlu (219) 291-7153 

$2300 

FLAT MONTHLY FEE! 
for long distance calls to: ELKHART • WAKARUSA BRISTOL • DUN LAP Ml DDLEBURY • GOSH EN 


If you're spending more than $23.00 per month for calls, 
YOU'RE PAYING TOO MUCH! 
We can start your service today ... START SAVING NOW! NO SPECIAL LINE OR INSTALLATION REQUIRED 


CALLUSAT 1-800-360-4990 Mon.-Fri. 'til 6 p.m. 




--,-,~r;~, ,~-,-,-,...,.,-,....,-,...--.-:'\-,.-,,....--:--.-:,-;-,I~,-..-,-,---­
page6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 29, 1995 
Workshop to focus on Latin American poverty 
By SAMANTHA SNYDER America. News Writer A public policy forum will be held on the final day of the 
The Kellogg Institute for In­workshop from 9:00 a.m. to ternational Studies is sponsor­3:00p.m. at the Auditorium in ing an academic workshop and the Center for Continuing Edu­forum entitled "Poverty in Latin cation. High-ranking govern­America: Issues and New Re­ment officials as well as leaders sponses" from September 30-in business and labor will take 0ctober 2. part in open dialogue in order 
According to Joetta to share their experiences in Schlabach, acting academic co­dealing with the issues pre­ordinator for the Kellogg Insti­sented at the workshop. The tute, the workshop will focus forum will be headed by Victor mainly on employment issues Tokman of the National Labor and social policies that affect Organization. the poor in Latin America as "We hope that the neutral well as the challenges of glob­and supportive environment of alization and restructuring of Notre Dame will make it possi­Latin American society. All ble for people from many sec­sessions of the workshop are tors of Latin American soci­free and open to the public. ety ... to engage in the kind of 
The first two days of the free exchange it will take to workshop will be held in the achieve a better understanding Auditorium of the Hesburgh of the issues of poverty, equity Center for International Studies and unemployment," com­and will feature speakers from mented Rev. Ernest Bartell, p"romineri.t Latin Ainerican la­C.S.C., Executive Director of the bor and economic organiza­Kellogg Institute. tions. Several academics, in­This year's workshop is part cluding the Kellogg Institute's of a five-year program entitled own Guillermo O'Donnell, will Project Latin America 2000. present papers at the work­The program's goal is to ad­shop. O'Donnell will speak on dress the various issues and the political aspects of poverty challenges facing Latin Ameri­and inequality in Latin can society. 
Catholic without believing in it. Cunningham cites a lack of
Miracle 

evidence as a reason for not accepting the apparitions. 
continued from page 1 "There is a fundamental core
concerned about the amount of of Catholic beliefs that I believe
publicity that the visions 
in. I am not required to believe
receive, according to 
every single report of appari­Trembath. 
tions," he said. "I see no com­pelling reason why I should be­
"The bishop thinks, and I 
lieve in the visions at Medju­agree, that way too much at­gorje."
tention is being paid to the Nevertheless, VISIOns,Marian appearances," 
whether unsubstantiated or ac­Trembath said. "I'll take that cepted, can be useful, accord­one step further and say that ing to Cunningham, provided because·of the appearances, that the visions do not produce
attention is unfairly being 
a cult of followers who inadver­deflected from problems closer tently neglect the main tenetsto home that we need to rectify of Catholicism as a result of 
-racism and reduction in 
their devotion. 

funds for homeless shelters, for "The visions are a matter ofexample." 
taste -some like them; some
Lawrence Cunningham, 
don't. A lot of intelligent peo­chairman of the department of ple who have made the pilgrim­theology and a Catholic, agrees age have said it's a very mov­that the great amount of atten­ing experience," Cunninghamtion given to the apparitions is 
said. "We need to make
unnecessary. 

allowances for different
"The vision isn't my spiritual expressions of faith within thecup of tea," Cunningham said. 
standard Catholic beliefs." 

"You can be a perfectly good 
"I'm Sorry I Have to Work All Weekend, Honey" 
The Life of Graduate Students and their Spouses and Partners 
A presentation on the stresses graduate students experience and the way thls affects their partners and families. The presentation will focus on the typical ways graduate students and their partners deal with the guilt, tension, and resentment which often result from the demands of graduate study. It will also present some ways couples can successfully deal with these issues. An open 
discussion will follow the presentation. 
Presented by: 
Dominic 0. Vachon Ph.D. 
Staff Psychologist University Counseling Center 
4:00 to 5:30pm Sunday, October 1, 1995 Untversity Village Community Center (222 East Cripe Street) 
A Pizza Dinner will be provided afterward. Please call John and Sylvia Dillon at Campus Ministry if you plan to attend: 631-5242 
Childcare Provided 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry and the University Counseling Center 
Professor joins top scientists 
By BRIAN IAUDEMAN 
News Writer 

Notre Dame physics professor Bruce Bunker has joined a team of top scientists to begin major research at Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois. The team has been established to study atomic structure by means of powerful X-ray beams. 
The team is made up of scien­tists from Northwestern Uni­versity, the Illinois Institute of Technology, the University of Florida, the Amoco Corp., and 
. from Argonne itself, as well as from Notre Dame. The experi­menters will produce X-rays by rapidly accelerating positrons to almost the speed of light, then forcing them into a mag­netic field. The magnetic field forces the positrons to undu­late, which causes them to emit powerful X-rays. 
By bombarding substances 
with the X-rays, which are over 
one million times more power­
ful than their medical counter­
parts, the scientists will be bet-
If you see news happening, call The Obseruer 
at 1-5323. 

ter able to investigate atomic structure. Bunker's function includes research that may lead to a better understanding of semi-conductors. 
The scientists involved with the project hope to accomplish a number of scientific goals. Many are simply looking for scientific data, whereas others hope for more pragmatic results from the research. The Amoco Corp. hopes to use the knowledge gained to develop better polymers of plastic. Medical and environmental developments are also on the scientists' agenda . 
"The strength of this consor­tium lies in the fact that its di­verse membership is interested in the same techniques and sys­tems from different points of view," Bunker said. 
Bunker is currently the only Notre Dame scientist actively involved in the development of the laboratory. Several profes­sors from Notre Dame's physi­cal and chemical engineering departments will eventually join Bunker in his research. 
Research is on hold until the massive Argonne Laboratory is completed. By the time exper­iments begin in 1996, the facil­ity will be over two-thirds of a mile in circumference. Funding for the $467 million project has come mainly from the De­partment of Energy, but also from various private invest­ments and federal grants. Notre Dame has contributed some funds. 
His research will take at least the next five years to complete, perhaps "another ten at the current rate," according to Bunker. His class schedule should remain full, however, as he maintains his primary obli­gation to Notre Dame. 
Both the research and collab­oration with some of the na­tion's top scientists are exCiting for him. "The participation of these scientists in developing, building, and operating a single facility will result in much clos­er collaboration thaB inves­tigators working on their own equipment at their own institu­tions," Bunker stated. 


September 29 7:00 &. 9:30 -f!i­October 1 1:00 &. 3:15 SAINT Carroll Auditorium MARY'S 
COLLEGE

$2 Admission NOTRE DAME, IN 
r--------------------------------------------,
I I I I 
1
! I EP\~WC3ill ~~ I 
I HOURS: Monday • Thurwday 1 -tit10 pm • Friday 1 am 1D 1 pm • Salun!ay 9 am 10 7 pm • Sunday 9 am \0 5 pm 
21 Tans For $2 
NOTRE. DAME 
277-1166 
,...........a..,._
...............................'\..,.....

---~---­---~ ~-­ 1 , I • I , < / I I I I I I I I • , 1 1 1 I I I 1 1 1 • I 1 I I I I I, I I  
Friday, September 29, 1995  The Observer • NEWS  page 7  


Columbus billboards remove ND monogram 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Associate News Editor 
Although the athletic contest has yet to be decided, Notre Dame has won a legal battle with Ohio State, or at least some its supporters. 
Since early this month, Columbus radio station WLVQ has been displaying eight bill­bbards de}licting the station's logo, a giant screw, and the Notre Dame monogram. Within a week, the monogram was re­placed with the words "The team from South Bend." 
The University had been noti­fied by local Notre Dame alum­ni and fans within a two days after the signs were built. Mter learning of the monogram be­ing used without a license (and in such a context), University officials faxed a cease-and-de­sist order from Notre Dame's general counsel. 
"Legally, they were using a registered trademark of the University. Not only is it inap­propriate and classless, but you're really in violation of the Law," said Executive Director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association Charles Lennon, Jr. 
"You get these two institu­tions together every 59 years. It's time to make hay. This is a big, big football game," said WLVQ general manager Tom Thon. 
Columbus also does not seem to have missed Notre Dame too much. 
"The message that we were trying to deliver is, 'Screw Notre Dame,"' Thon said. 
The station did receive some local protest from parents and alumni who alleged the sign conveyed an anti-Catholic mes­sage. But Thon says they were merely trying to rally support for the hometown team. 
"It's important that you make note that it's in reference to a football team and not a reli­gion." 
'Globalization' leads to decay 

Well, N·o\\l y·ou can do it for oc~~:-~s:~~l"~~<.c¥:tJ~trt::tl:~w~·····~-~--. .. ,S tud.e:nt Gov e r n e n t 
--,_,·_Y_,,.,•··.·.·.,.,..._.,, ..._ 
-:t~::iitkw,~>t-$
·nuslN·.•:ss 

!\'lust be able to \VOrk '~rith several different 
By GILLIAN BRADY 
News Writer 
Most Notre Dame students do not lie awake at night ponder­ing what will happen if a South Bend steel industry moves its operations to China in order to reduce labor costs. But for many Americans, this relatively new phenomenon of industrial relocation, often called "global­ization," is a very serious con­cern. 
Jeremy Brecher, Humanities Scholar-in-Residence at Con­necticut Public Radio and Tele­vision, delivered the 18th an­nual Joseph P. Molony Memo­rial Lecture yesterday evening. Brecher spoke to a gathering of students and faculty about eco­nomic ·globalization and its ef­fects on American labor. In his lecture, Brecher stressed the importance of individual action. 
"Globalization is not a ques­tion of people in Iceland catch­ing fish and trading with people in Jamaica," he said. "The main competition going on is a competition over the lowest la­bor and environmental costs, and we all need to ask what or­dinary citizens can do." 
Many economists believe that globalization is a good thing, but Brecher offered a different view, claiming that the result of globalization is "a race to the bottom." 
"Labor conditions for the world are set by the poorest and most desperate," Brecher noted. He gave various exam­ples of companies who have moved out of the United States because of the lower labor costs and lack of environmental restrictions that exist in third world and underdeveloped na­tions. 

Industrial movement and its search for the cheapest means of production has had a tremendous impact on the . American way of life, especially among the working classes, ac­cording to B_recher. 
"The wealthiest 400 families in America have nearly tripled their worth in the last few years, while over one quarter of infants and toddlers today 

BUS DEPARTS RETURN LIBRARY CIRCLE Rli2E TO CAMPUS 10/1 10:15 11:00 12:30 10/1 11:45 12:30 2:00 10/8 10::15 11:00 1:30 10/8 12:15 1:00 2:30 
REGISTER& PAY IN ADVANCE MAXIMUM NUMBER PER RIDE IS 5 ~ f(JU MOUE INFO C'\LL UECSPOUTS.\Tr..H-611111 
live in poverty," he said. 
Brecher believes that this has been the main cause of "decay of community life, rise in crime and the decay of the environ­ment" because America is los­ing industry to countries like Mexico whose low labor and environmental costs are ex­tremely attractive to busi­nesses. 
Brecher is a noted historian and the author of eight books which address such issues as Roe v. Wade, segregation of schools, and most recently, in his book "Global Village or Global Pillage," the destruction of the American working class due to global competitivene~s. 

a
... 


'I 
------~----~-----­
pageS The Observer • NEWS Friday, September 29, 1995 
Shrine envokes feeling of identity for Cubans 
of God, concerns about work­and talking about our experi­ing for justice, helping other ence through time together"
Rabbi 

people, helping the poor and could also facilitate a greater the downtrodden," said Signer. understanding between thecontinued from page 1 "One of the very important faiths, according to Signer. themes within Judaism as I Signer exposes what is
Jewish studies in a Christian 

understand it is: Remember known as the "dark side ofenvironment," said Father 
you were strangers in the land Christianity."
Richard McBrien, a fellow of Egypt. The stranger shall "In many ways it played into 

chair in the Theology depart­be with you as the home the persecution of Jews andment. 

born." did not promote what I would 
It was, however, Signer's in­It is these ideas that both Ju­consider a very Christian agen­

terest in the interaction be­

daism and Christianity share. da," said Signer. "The two
tween Jews and Christians in "We just act on them out of great commandments are love

the 11th and 12th centuries 

different particularities," said of God and love of neighbor.
during his doctoral candidacy Signer. · But until 1965, the Catholicat the University of Toronto Instead of focusing on differ­Church accused the Jews ofand his work at Hebrew Union ences, however, Signer hopes deicide, the killing of Christ,College in Los Angeles that 

to educate his students by and therefore being con­
formed the basis to accept the allowing them to encounter demned to wander for all time. 

invitation to teach at Notre Judaism and reduce stereo­The church also prayed for ourDame. 

types. conversion during Friday ser­"I saw the appointment as an "We can increase vices on Holy Week."
opportunity where I could understanding by talking so With the world seemingly

carry on the agenda of inter­that people would be much getting smaller, universal ac­religious dialogue and explo­more careful about making ceptance must now extend be­ration," said Signer. "I wanted statements like Jews are, or yond Judaism. 

to see whether one could carry that Jews ought to be," said "What do we do as the world out a further understanding of 

Signer. grows larger? We must learn
Judaism and the Jewish 

Signer hopes to achieve this to incorporate Muslims, Hin­
experience in a non-Jewish 

agenda by looking at the nega­duism, and Buddhists and dealenvironment." 
tive and positive experiences with all of the cultures in the
Many people associated with in an historical context. global community," saidthe University point to Notre 

"Digging back into history Signer.
Dame's Catholic character as the strong union of faith. But 

this faith, as Signer points out, is not exclusive. Come Experience
"If the Catholic character of this University, means homo­The Aveda geneity then that would be a great tragedy and this would Concept! no longer be a great Catholic university,'' said Signer. Enjoy $5 off any Full 
The Catholic character of 
Service with this
this University is so much more than just faculty or stu­dents. 
"We are talking about resi­dence halls, students in their liturgies, social concerns and social justice pursuits," said Signer. 
Most importantly, it is some­thing universal. "I share a lot of the Kingdom 

Where: Meet at Library Circle, then to Macri's for dinner, finally to see the movie of your choice at University Park Theaters (transporta­tion provided). 
Cost: You pay your own way. 
Brought to you by ";tip Sute, the group that provides something other than the usual social scene. 
By KELLY FITZPATRICK News Wrirer 
The sixth largest Catholic pil­grimage site in the United States is a shrine founded by Cuban-Americans and dedi-· cated to Our Lady of Charity, according to Thomas A. Tweed, an expert in the area. 
Besides being a holy place for exiled Cubans to worship, the shrine has become a sym­bol of their homeland, Tweed said. 
Following the 1959 takeover of Havana by Fidel Castro's army, the 29,500 Cuban immi­grants in Miami made up only 3% of the local population. By 1990, the more than 561,000 Cubans that ·had migrated con­stituted about 30% of the Miami population. As political exiles, Tweed stated, Cubans have remained passionate about their native land. 
"As Cuban-Americans boast, . . . the diaspora tenaciously holds to the Cuban past and continually plans its future," he writes in his essay entitled, "Diaspora Nationalism and Ur­ban Landscape: Cuban Immi­grants at a Catholic Shrine in Miarm.. " 
Diaspora Nationalism, as Tweed defines it, refers to the distinct detachment of groups who see themselves as involun­tary immigrants. The term di­aspora "entails 'geopiety,' or an attachment to the natal land­scape," continued Tweed. 
Tweed, who has been re­searching the relationship be-

Fuentes lecture promotes SMC Multicultural Week 
Special to the Observer 

Author, statesman and schol­ar Carlos Fuentes will speak at Saint Mary's College tomorrow night at 7:30 p.m. in the O'Laughlin Auditorium. The title of his presentation, kicking off multicultural week, is "The United States and Latin America: A Shared Continent." 
His prolific fiction ranges from spy thrillers, such as "The Hydra Head," to the ghost sto­ries of "Aura" to the caustic in­dictments of the Mexican revo­lution in "The Death of Artemio tween the Cuban immigrants and the symbols associated with the shrine, wrote that "The symbols bridge the water that separates exiles from their homeland and transport the di­aspora to the Cuba of memory and desire. " He contends that "exiles map the landscape and history of the homeland onto the new urban environment through architecture and rit­ual." 
Through the symbols and artifacts at the shrine, the dias­pora create their collective identity, he said. Though Tweed reports that only half of Cuban rural heads of families identified themselves as Catholics in a 1957 survey, 88.8% of those surveyed never attended services, and only 4% attended three of more times a year. Yet, the Cubans driven from the land of their birth still fmd religious satisfaction in just visiting the 22-year old shrine, Tweed said . 
R. Scott Appleby, director of the sponsoring Cushwa Center, said it was important that the seminar be held at Notre Dame to show that "the core symbols and teachings of the Catholic Church find so many different expressions -in different con­crete social standards in this country." The Cushwa Center seeks to foster an awareness of the diversity of Catholics in America; Appleby noted that the increasing influence of Latino Catholics in this country makes Tweed's talk especially necessary. 


Cruz." 
Fuentes' political influence as an international statesman is nearly as great as his literary fame. Born in 1928, Fuentes spent his youth in Washington, D.C., where his father served as a Mexican diplomatic repre­sentative. 
He has served as Mexico's ambassador to France, and was an active participant in the quest for peace in Central America. He is currently a member of Mexico's National Commission on Human Rights. 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
TI-IE I~1A GINARY INVALID 
. ..: . . 
TRANSLATED AND DIRECTED BY _REV. DAVID GARRICK, C.S.C. 
WEDNESDAY, Ocr. 4 ... 8:00 P.M. FRIDAY, Ocr. 6 .•......•.. 8:00 P.M. THURSDAY, OCT. 5 ......8:00P.M. SATURDAY, OCT. 7 ...... 8:00P.M. SUNDAY, OCT. 8 ......... 2:30P.M. 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL • RESERVED SEATS $8 STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS 
TICKETS A.E AYAilAilE AT THE DDD. o• IN ADVANCE AT THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTE• TICKET OFFICE. MASTUCA•D AND VISA o•DEU CALL 631-8128 
I I I I I 'I' If' 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, September 29, 1995 
page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Bwiness Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Vu:wpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti C..arson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the indef"'ndent newspaf"'r published by rhe srudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of cit.htr institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represn~t the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Ediror, Phoro Editor, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notte Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Pax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.eduGeneral Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• EDITORIAL 
The big, plaid ticket-eating monster 
A
s many students pack up and head out to Columbus to sup· 
port the Irish during this weekend's big face-off against 
the Buckeyes, many will find themselves cheering on the team 
from the stadium parking lot or from some of OStrs finest 
watering holes. Some have even reconciled themselves to .remaining in South Bend despite the fact that Saturday's game could be huge and Columbus is only five hours away. 
Without the right connections, a significant amount of cash 
(nearly $400,) or an extremely fortunate number in the stu• 
dent ticket lottery, most students are out of luck. Only 200 of 
the 2000'tickets allotted to the University for this week's game 
were designated specifically for students. What happened to 
the other 1800? You guessed it-alumni. 
The appearance of the big plaid ticket eating monster isn't a 
new phenomenon. Remember the stunning 1993 win over 
Michigan? Most students watched the game on television from 
South Bend. Sure, Ann Arbor is a perfect roadtrip distance, 
but only a couple hundred of the 104,000 plus seats in 
Michigan Stadium were slated for Notre Dame students. 
According to director of ticketing and marketing, Bill Scholl, 
alumni always get first priority for tickets at away games 
because students are guaranteed seats at every game in Notre 
Dame Stadium. 
But shouldn't students take priority regardless of the where· 
abouts of the game? Time and time again, players and coach· 
es have cited the positive influence of the fabled "12th Man," 
(provided courtesy of the Notre Dame student body.) So why 
won't they let us travel? 
Once again, the university is thinking with its wallet rather 
than it's heart. 
Students have been put on the back burner so that alumni {read: potential donors) can have a chance to break out the ·plaid pants. sing the fight song and see their obligatory game 
each season. 
E
It Is understandable that alums want to see a few games­after all, we'll be in the same boat in a few years-but the fact remains, students are the heart and soul of the university, and we should have an equal opportunity to score seats. ntering Interested students in the alumni lottery for away 
games would be a constructive solution to the problem. 
Granted, students would have to make road-tripping plans 
months earlier than they are accustomed in order to enter any 
large-scale lottery. But the planned expansion of the stadium 
In 1997 should help alleviate the alumni ticket crunch. 
Following the current policy's logic, more road seats should 
open up for students. 
Whether or not that happens remains to be s~en. 
Dear Editor: 1 A Thile talking to a 
V V friend recently, the topic of conversa­tion turned to Cal Ripken. My friend asked me how many days of work my father had missed as a Chicago fireman. In thinking about it I recalled that at his retirement party the captain had mentioned that my dad had been on the department for 30 years and had not missed a single day of work. In his early days as a fireman he worked "24 on/24 off shifts." This meant that he worked 84 hours per week. With the intro­duction of "Kelly Days," he cut back to 60 hours a week -at which point he took another half-time job. 
Thinking back still 
further, I recalled that my maternal grandfather, Patrick Murphy, was a Chicago policeman for about 35 years. My moth· er once told me that he had missed two days of work during those years. He missed a day when he had broken his foot and could not get his uni­form on over the cast. He was able to return to work by filing down the cast to get in through his pant leg. He missed another day when he had pneumonia and collapsed at work. He was put in the hospital. Against his doctor's orders he checked himself out and returned to work the following day. 
So I salute Cal, particularly knowing that those who are pursuing his record of 2100 plus straight games, have played in 250 straight games! There are two things about this that strike me. The first is that the athletic world seems to find so many ways to congratulate itself. Only Hollywood matches them in this area. We have all-city, all-county, all-state, there is the player of the week, player of the game and per­
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Work ethic of a common man 

S
haps soon we will have player of the inning. The look on Cal's face for much of this seemed to be saying, "Wasn't I being paid to play these games? What's all the fuss?" I don't know if we should all find more ways to congratulate ourselves (it sure looks like fun) or if we should realize that doing our job on a daily basis is the standard rather than something worthy of national attention. econdly. I find the use of language and choice of metaphors to be very interesting in the athletic world. For the last 10 years we have heard about a players "work ethic." Actually the notion of a work ethic is based on Calvinistic teaching and suggests that one believes that in working 

hard we are fulfilling God's expectations for us. I have known many people with a genuine work ethic -I think my father and grandfather had one. I am not sure that individuals who work half the year for five or six hours a day would be viewed as endorsing a work ethic. 
Returning to my father. I note that he worked on the day that he died. That evening he began having chest pains and he knew that his blood pressure was elevated -he was 70 at that time and still working six days a week. At his wake, his boss came to me and said that he was proba­bly the last person to talk to my father. l asked him what he had said·. My dad had called about 9 
p.m. and said that he had not been feeling well but the pain was gone. "I'll be there in the morn­ing" were his last words 
PATRICK UTZ, PH.D. Director University Counseling Center 

•  000NESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
TH8 rACT/5, I WA~ !J&~P&R­JtT&! 1'1? 1XJ ANYTHIN6 FOR. 7HE-5eKIPS, IJ.k:ti.JI:rAf3 6C¥J.K3 7lJJAit.-f 7He5eAR&MY Kl/?!3 -ALMOSTt/KeA Jlii?K'/ teU/15 7111/lk5-7HIIT/NTC/II'!!i3.  7HR£&-/?AY HeAl? tfiTAI<T %13M FAIR?  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The immoral exploitation 
of the earth cannot cease while the immoral exploitation of women contin­ues." 
-Vladimir Solovyev 

----~----------. -. ­
, , I\ I I\',' I I I' 
l 1 \I I' • I I 1 I 1 1 1 '1 I\ 1 • • 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, September 29, 1995 
• CAPITOL CoMMENTS 
Republican reformers shake down the system 
. 

R
emember the last election featuring himself legislatively -most freshmen measure to allow oil refineries and American cartoon hand containing four the "Contract with America" where do not during their first term. However chemical manufacturers to release more fingers -which in Japan is a very bad Republicans portrayed themselves as he has made a mark for himself mone­pollution into our air and water; and omen. reformers? Well welcome to the real tarily by ranking first in his class in col­legislation to expand such "corporate By the end of the next election cycle world of politics. Republicans are doing lecting big campaign contributors from welfare" as the $100 million-a-year pro­we will be able to calculate just how • exactly what they vilified the Democrats the big special interests. He hauled in gram to pay huge corporations like much each of those corporations gave to for doing. The freshmen members are $196,854 in nine months on the job. McDonald's to adver-Republicans to pre­uncharacteristically sticking together in That is almost $22,000 a month since he tise their products serve their majority, a show of loyalty for Speaker Newt took office in January. overseas. Several cor-thus preserving corpo­Gingrich and providing the sometimes Ensign is not alone in the age-old porations take advan­rate programs.
''IThat disturbs 
slim margins of victory on several mat­money chase. Common Cause recently tage of this "advertising Multiply that by other ters from special interests aligned to released a report covering the first six subsidy" including Y Y many observers Republican favors to months of the new Hershey, Jim Beam, the banking industry,
their philosophies. 
of Congress is the bla­
Most importantly, Republican Campbell Soup, Fruit­trucking industry, Wall they are raking in "incumbents." It of-the-Loom, M&M tant use of corporate Street and on and on. special interest con­seems that they Candies, Pillsbury, lobbyists when Then we can foresee tributions in record have been practic­Gallo and other hugely­obscene totals that will
Gary Republican members 
numbers. ing business-more­profitable food con­break several contri­In the days of than-usual by solic­glomerates. write legislative mea­bution categories. Democratic control, iting about four­These profitable cor­Money talks in poli­
Caruso sures. The new crowd
cprporations )mew and-a-half million porations need an tics, unless of course they had to deal dollars from corpo­advertising subsidy like is unabashed about the majority of work­with a Congress run rate political action Monk Malloy needs a ing Americans say,
passing bills written by 
by those who were committees. That tuxedo. Not only do we "Enough of this corpo­not sympathetic to makes them more taxpayers pay pro~ and for corporate inter­rate welfare. I want them. Nonetheless, they contributed to indebted to special interest PACs than itable companies to lower student loan
ests. They are just as 
those who controlled the committees the "bad ole Democratic Congress" they advertise abroad, we costs, a reduced while also contributing to the were sent to replace. let them do really stu­brazen about cashing deficit, a preservation Republican minority in a effort to soften l AThat disturbs many observers of pid advertising as well. in with those compa­of Medicare, a higher what they considered anti-business leg­V V Congress is the blatant use of cor­The California Raisin minimum wage along
nies. As Indiana's Mark 
islation. Now these corporations are porate lobbyists when Republican mem­Board got $3 million with better working contributing huge amounts to all bers write legislative measures. The from this program to Souder put it, "It's just conditions, and I vote." 
Republicans, especially freshmen who new crowd is unabashed about passing advertise in Japan. 
stupid if they don't give 
can be the most vulnerable in next bills written by and for corporate inter­Their first mistake was year's election, in an effort to maintain ests. They are just as brazen about to advertise in English me money.' 
their friendly Republican control. cashing in with those companies. As (maybe so the company Gary Caruso, ND '73, 
John Ensign is one of the 73 new Indiana's Mark Souder put it, "It's just could use the ads in the worked at the U.S. Republican members elected last fall on stupid if they don't give me money." U.S. as well). House of Representatives for eighteen a promise of changing "business-as­Sadly, he is right. The votes of these Secondly, they were advertising an years and is now a publicist with the usual" politics in Washington. He has first-term Republicans have been unknown product in Japan. The International Union of Electronics been extremely busy during his first Gingrich's margin of victory in such key Japanese thought the dancing charac­Workers {/UE) in Washington. D.C. His year not shaking up the system but battles this year as: the one to give a ters were potatoes. But they really blew column appears every other Friday and shaking it down. The Nevada retroactive tax break worth $22 billion it when they created those cute animat­his Internet address is: Republican has not made a name for to America's biggest corporations; the ed characters with the traditional hottline@aol. com 
• LOCAL COLOR 
Understanding dying with dignity 

T
he closest thing to a premonition I've ever had is this: I was talking to my friend Judy about her mother at church one Sunday, and she was telling me that her mother was ready to die, and that Mrs. Dutchess couldn't understand why God was taking so long about it. I had a sensation as if someone had shoved me in the back, and I found myself saying to Judy, "I'd like to drive down to Kokomo and meet your mother." 
We did drive down, and I met Mrs. Dutchess and heard this story, a story that I've thought since wanted to be told and called me in to do the job. 
The story was this: Mrs. Dutchess nearly died in the spring, and when she returned to the world, she told everyone she'd 
seen God. She'd looked down a long tunnel, with light at the end of it, and saw people she knew were already dead. They looked Carol at her, and they turned their backs on her. 
Then she saw her husband, 
Bradley

d1Jad twepty,y~ars. and he turned his back on her and walked away, but she wasn't frightened. There 
was a nice field, and people she thought she knew, and then God was there. 
Her granddaughter Karen, an ordained Lutheran pastor, asked her later, "What did God look like Grandma?" 
"Oh he was big," she said, "and he had lots and lots of hair. But he was so-ooo kind." He took her up in his lap, and shook his fmger at her, and said, "You're in too much of a hurry, it's not time for you to come yet." 
Afterwards, Mrs. Dutchess said, she'd thought of a lot of questions she could have asked God, but it just hadn't occurred to her at the time. 
Several years earlier, Judy had gone upstairs to wake her mother and found her lapsed into a c.oma. Judy had wrestled with it since, she said, whether or not she should have waited to call an ambulance. 
"Mother wanted to die, she was ready to die. But 
I couldn't do it. I couldn't decide, yes it's now time." Judy called 911, and watched her carried unconscious from the house. Her mother spent the next three years in a nursing home, and over those three years Judy watched her die by inches. 
Degenerative arthritis crumbled the bones of her spine to the point that her-vertebrae, in X-rays, looked like matchsticks. There were times when her mother was in such terrible pain, Judy said, that if there'd been a plug to pull, she'd have pulled it. But after her near-death experience, Mrs. Dutchess seemed more accepting of her circumstances. 
When God told her it wasn't time, she figured maybe there was some plan, some reason she hadn't died yet. "Although," she told us, her voice wry, her ges­ture encompassing both her broken body and the nursing home, "I can't imagine what it might be." 
A few weeks after our visit her condition deteriorat­ed. Judy was with her mother when she went into a grand mal seizure. "It's all over," the nurses told her, "she isn't in any pain." Then they found a pulse. During the night Mrs. Dutchess had five more seizures, but each time her heart kept beating, and 
she slept. 


"Hi," she said. "I hear the 
J
udy held the phone, and Mrs. Dutchess talked for a few seconds to her granddaughter Karen, Judy's daughter. 
"I understand you've been real sick," Karen said. 
"That's what they say." 
"Are you feeling sick now?" 
"Oh no, not so much," Mrs. Dutchess said. "I'm OK, but I think your mother's tired." 
She died early in the morning of the second day. If, at the moment of her death, she saw her friends and family approach, this time she didn't turn away. Her last words, they said, were Oh, they're coming for me. 
Her body was cremated, as she'd requested, and her ashes buried next to her husband. Her granddaugh­ter Karen picked the verses for the memorial service, including the Old Testament reading from the Book of Job, that expert on suffering. For I know that my Redeemer lives, and that at the last he will stand upon the earth; and after my skin has been thus destroyed, then in my flesh I shall see God. 
Writer and photographer Carol Bradley teaches magazine writing at Saint Mary's and can be reached via e-mail at: carol.c. bradley. 7@nd. edu 
When Judy came in the next morning, one of the aides met her. "You're not going to believe what you see," she said. "Your mother woke up this morning, and the first thing she wanted to know was who'd won the World Series!" 
Judy went in and said "Hi mom." 
1 • I I 1 1 'I I' I I I I I I I I I 1 '' • I I I I 1 1 1 I 1 I 1' f I •' • 
ACCENT 
Friday, September 29, 1995 page 11 

150 BANNED BOOKS 
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn• Adventures of Sherlock Holmes•The Adventures of Tom Sawyer-Against All Odds•Allred Hitchcock's Witches Brew•AIIce's Adventures In Wonderland-All Quiet on the Western Front•Anlmal Farm•Are You There God, It's Me Margaret• The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklln•The Awakening• The Barber of Seville-Being Born-Being There-The Bible-Billy Budd-Blubber-The Boy Who Drank Too Much• The Call of the Wlld•Camllre•The Canterbury TalesoCarrieoCatch-22-Gatcher In the Rye•The Cathollc•Charlle and the Chocolate Factory•Chocolate Fever•Chocolate WaroChrlstlneoCinderella•A Clockwork Orange-The Color Purple-conception and Contraception-coney Island of the Mlnd•Crosslngs•The Cruclble•Cujo•Curses, Hexes and Spells•Cuttlng Edge•Death Be Not Proud•Death of a Salesman•Dellverance•The Diary of Anne Frank•The Divine Comedy•Doctor Z h Iva go• Doll's House •D on Qulxote•Dragonwings•Dubliners•East of Eden•Encyclopedla Brltannlca•Endless Love•Everythlng You Wanted to Know About Sex, But Were to Afraid to Ask•Ewoks Join the Flght•The Exorclst•Fahrenhelt 451•Fallen Angels•A Farewell to Arms•Father Chrlstmas•Faust•FirestarteroFiowers lor Algernon•Fiowers In the Attlc•For Whom the Bell Tolls•From Here to Eternlty•The' Glass Menagerle•God, the Universe and Hot Fudge Sundaes•The Godlather•Gone With the Wlnd•Grapes of Wrath•Great Expectallons•The Great Gatsby•Grendei•Hamlet•Hansel and Gretei•Home Free•l, Claudlus•l Know Why the Caged Bird Sings•lnvlsible Man•Jaws•King LearoKookanoo and the Kangaroo•Lady Chatterley's Lover-Last Exit to Brooklyn•The Last Temptation of Chrlst•Les Mlserables•Light In the Attic-The Lion, the Witch and the WardrobeoLollta•Lord of the Flies•Lost Horlzon•Macbeth•The Man Who Came to Dinner-The Merchant of Venice•Le Morte D'ArthuroThe Naked Ape-Naked Lunch•NightShllt•1984•Notre Damede Parls•The Odyssey•Oedipus Rex•OI Mice and Men•The Old Man and the Sea•Oiiver Twist•One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest•Ordlnary People•Paradise Lost•The Peari•The Phantom Tollbooth•Pigman•The Prince and the Pauper-The Prince of Tides•The Red Badge or CourageoRed Pony•Rosemary's BabyoRumpelstlltskin•Salem's Lot•The Scarlet Letter•Separate Peace•The Shlnlng•Siaughterhouse-Five•Sons and Lovers•Sophle's Choice•The Stand•The Sun Also Rlses•Superludge•The Talmud•Tarzan•Tess of the D'Urbervllles•Then Again, Maybe I Won't•Three Billy Goats Gruii•Tiny Tim•To Kill A Mocklngbird•Tom Jones•Twellth Night•Uiysses•Uncle Tom's Cabln•VIsion Quest•Watership DownooWebster's Dlctionary•Where's Waldo?•WIId Palms•The Wizard of Oz•A Wrinkle In Time•Wutherlng Heights•You and Your Health•Zork: The Malllestro Quest• 
L------------1 classics. For example, in 1992 "The Adventures of 

Huckleberry Finn" was challenged in nearby Portage, Michigan. The availability of Steinbeck's "Of Mice and Men "and Salinger's "Catcher in the Rye" continues to be threat­ened. Don't be misled, censorship is not the work of only fanatic right-wingers. An atheist from Minnesota tried to get the Bible banned in an effort to "turn the tables on the reli­gious right." 
In a 1985 effort to ban Shel Silverstein's "A Light in the Attic," a book of children's poetry, a Beloit, Wisconsin res­ident claimed the book "encourages children to break dishes so they won't have to dry them." Imagine losing every copy of "The Diary of Anne Frank" because it is "a real downer." Most disturbing was the explanation a district administrator gave for removing "Bury my Heart at Wounded Knee" by Dee Brown. He thought it was "slanted" and with tragic 
Book Burning --· in the Modern World cl c:
·­


ignorance offered, "If there is a possibility that something might be controversial. then why not eliminate it?" If the frightening consequences of book banning are not 
cs

already apparent, a look back at the history of censorship can offer valuable insight. Many of the thinkers regarded as 
c:

integral to modern society were silenced. Socrates was ex­ecuted for the expression of his ideals. An examination of an old edition of the Roman Index of Forbidden Books reveals 
c:u revolutionary works that were ofT-limits for Catholics with­out a papal dispensation. It includes books thought to be against the faith, against morals, or religious books that had U)not been censored by the church before publication. The 1925 version includes the writings of Rousseau, Locke, 
I

Voltaire, Descartes, and Victor Hugo's "Les Miserables." These works were controversial because they presented ideas that ran counter to contemporary beliefs. They were probably banned along side many worthless works, but had they been squelched completely the progress of humanity 

Q) 
I 
c:u 
I 

·­
c­0 
the market." 

A common misconception by those in favor of banning books is that immoral ideas will incite immoral action. In fact, this is rarely the case and the price of freedom is much more costly. "To suppress minority thinking and minority expression would tend to freeze society and prevent progress ... Now more than ever we must keep in the fore­front of our minds the fact that whenever we take away the liberties of those whom we hate, we are opening the way to loss of liberty for those we love." (Wendell' Lewis Willkie, "One World") 
Granted, smut can be offensive. Some books are little more than a bound pack of lies. So don't read them. That is the right of every American citizen. Americans also have the right to check them out, maybe even let others know that they think Joe Author does not know what he is talking about and could not write his way out of a paper bag. However. no one has the right to keep others from exploring even if they think these others are wading through sewer mire. Herbert H. Humphrey wisely quipped, "The right to be heard does not automatically include the right to be taken seriously." 


The Office of Intellectual Freedom puts out the "Library Bill of Rights" which outlines the true purpose and Q)responsibilities of American libraries. A number of the trea­tises are particularly important. First, it emphasizes that 
CIS>

books purchased with public funds must indiscriminately represent all views, regardless of the racial, political, or religious standpoints of the writers. Second, it affirms the c:u responsibility of parents and not the library to restrict the reading of children. Kids have rights too, and, to quote Clare 
a 

Booth Luce, "censorship, like charity, should begin at home; but unlike charity, it should end there." 
Finally, the Bill reiterates that libraries have a re­sponsibility to combat censorship and it provides a detailed Q) guide for librarians that encounter it. "Intellllctual freedom, the essence of equitable library services, promotes no cause, c-furthers no movements, and favors no viewpoints. It only provides for free access to all expressions of ideas through 1 which any and all sides of a question, cause, or movement may be explored. Toleration is meaningless without toler­ance for what some may consider detestable." 
To find out what you can do about censorship, contact: Office for Intellectual Freedom American Library Association 50 East Huron Street Chicago, Illinois 60611 



~---,...,_----------:-~.:-:,-;-,-;-,;-;-:,I ' I \ I ~~-,'-,-,' > 
, • 0 I l '1 I If I I\\\ l I 1' • 
page 12 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, September 29, 1995 

Ohio State Totally Nuts! 



What is a Buckeye anyhow? 
buck' eye, n. [buck (male deer), and eye: from the appearance of the seed.] 

1. any one of several species of American 
trees and shrubs of the genus AEsculus, including the horse chest­nut; as, the Ohio or fetid buckeye, AEsculus glabra. 
2. a native or inhabitant of Ohio. 
VVIIIV\.1.] 

Buckeye State; Ohio: so named because of the many buckeye trees growing there. 

Where to sleep, eat, hang 
HOTELS 
•Best Western OSU, 3232 Olentangy River Rd. (614)261-7141 
•Cross 
Country Inn (OSU North), 3246 Olentangy River Rd. (800)621-1429 

•Cross 
Country Inn (OSU South), 1445 Olentangy River Rd.((800)621-1429 •Days Inn/Fairgrounds, 1700 Clara St. (800) 325-2525 •Days Inn/University, 3160 Olentangy River Rd. (614)251-0523 


•Holiday Inn on the Lane, 328 W. Lane Ave. (800)HOLIDAY •Hojo Inn, 1070 Dublin Rd.(614) 486-4554 •The OSU Fawcett Center (614) 292-1342 •Parke University Hotel, 3025 Olentangy River Rd. (614)267-1111 •Ramada University Hotel, 3110 Olentangy River Rd. (800)228-2828 •Red Roof Inn OSU, 441 Ackerman Rd. (800)THE-ROOF 
RESTAURANTS AND BARS 
•Papa 
Joe's Pizza and more, 1573 North High St., 614-421-1200 

•Varsity 
Club, 278 West Lane Ave, 614-299-6269 (tavern/pub) 


•The Outer End, 20 East Frambeys, 614-294-9183 (tavern/college crowd) •NotAl's, 614-291-7909 
SIGHTS 
•Columbus 
Museum of Art, 480 E. Broad St at Washington Ave., Fri. 11-4, Sat. 10-5, Sun. 11-5. Parking $3. 614-221-6801 

•Columbus 
Zoo, ofT I-270, Sawmill Rd. exit, follow signs. 9-5. $5. 614-645­3400. 

•Cosi, 
Ohio's Center of Science and Industry, 280 E. Broad St. Fri. and Sat. 10-5, Sun. noon-5:30. Students $3. 614-228-2674. 

•Franklin 
Park Conservatory, Franklin Park at 1777 E. Broad St. Fri. 10-a, Sat. 10-6, Sun. 11-5. Students $2.50. 614-645-8733. 

•Ohio 
Historical Center, jet. 1-71 and 17th Ave., Fri. and Sat. 9-5, Sun. 10-5. $4. 614-297-2300. 

•Olentangy 
Indian Caverns, 6 mi. North ofjet. US 23 and I-270, then 2 mi. West to 1779 Home Rd., following signs. Daily 9:30-5. $7.25. 614-548-7917. 

•Anheuser-Busch 
Brewery, 700 E. Schrock Rd., Fri. and Sat. 9-4. Free. 614­847-6465. 


Getting there 
Take 80/90 east to Toledo. Take 1­75 south until you hit US-23 South. This road, which becomes North High Street when you reach Columbus, will take you almost directly to the sta­dium. Watch for Lane Ave. There will be signs. The University is locat­ed between Lane Ave. and 11th. The trip is approxi­mately 300 miles and could take as long as 5 hours. If you need help, try the Columbus Visitors Bureau at 1-800-345-4FUN. 
>\I I I I 

Friday, September 29, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 13 
.. 

The Battle Resumes ... 
...60 years of anticipation ends 
By JOEY CRAWFORD 
As.sislant Accent Editor 
W
e have all heard the rumors of people purchas­ing Ohio State tickets for large sums of cash. Four tickets for twenty thousand dollars! This seems completely absurd. Some people are willing to pay almost any price to see the game that has been anticipated for 60 years. The large amount of hype surrounding the game is incredible. But what makes this game so different? Why does this game mean so much to the Ohio State fans? 
"Revenge," explains one eager Buckeye fan. 
David Fong, the sports e4J.tor at the Lantern (Ohio State's student run newspaper), attempts to explain the hype, "In the words of coach John Cooper, 'Most of us were Catholics before we were Buckeyes.' I went to a parochial school when I was growing up. My family and I would pray for Notre Dame on weekends. It was part of my life. Now it is interesting to see two perennially great football teams square off against ono another. People either love Notre Dame or hate them. There are no in-betweens. So people are anxious to see what hap­pens Saturday afternoon." 
Founded in 1870, The Ohio State University has be­come one of the largest universities in the world. It is widely recognized as one of America's most distin­guished and prestigious universities. The Buckeye foot­ball program is highly touted as well. The football team has managed to ac.cumulate four National Championships and 26 Big Ten Championships. The fact 

Affiliation: 
All-Time Attendance: 
--30,144,6262__ 
'All-Time Average 
72 289 
that Notre Dame handed Ohio State a pair of devastat­ing losses in the 1930's scars the minds of many Buckeye aficionados. These were losses that would con­tinue to haunt the program for the remainder of the century. Ohio State fans have patiently waited for sixty years for a chance to see their Buckeyes defeat the mighty Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. 
On a cool, windy day, there was "an air of anticipa­tion" in Columbus, the capital city of Ohio. The date was November 2, 1935-All Souls' Day. The Fighting Irish were scheduled to play the feared Crimson Buckeyes of Ohio State. Many expected the Buckeyes to win both the Big 10 and National Championship, ousting their Big 10 rival Minnesota. The 4-0 Buckeyes were favored over Notre Dame despite the Irish's 5-0 record. This game has been imprinted in the hearts of millions of sports fans as an all time classic. 
The Irish overcame a 13 point deficit in the final quar­ter to push them over the top of the Buckeyes. The Buckeyes saw their dreams of a championship come to a startling halt when Irish quarterback Bill Shakespeare threw Wayne Millner a 19 yard touchdown pass with 32 seconds remaining in the game. The hearts of Buckeye fans dropped as the Irish took a 18-13 lead. 
Ohio State suffered a similar fate the following year, when Notre Dame defeated the Buckeyes 7-2. That was the last time these two teams have met on the football field. 
Larry Petroff, Director of Ohio State Football Operations, believes that this is just another game. "The media has created the hype. The players just want to get out there and play. It is just another game and just another win." ­
Former Ohio State standout and back-to-hack Heisman Trophy winner Archie Griffith, also comment­ed on the hype buildup, "It is an exciting week, especial­ly since we haven't played Notre Dame for a very long time. People have been looking forward to this game for about a half of a century. If I were still playing, I would be excited to play Notre Dame. These two schools have a fine history and are loaded with tra­dition." 
Irish fans view the game as an opportunity to lay some doubts to rest. "We are obviously a better all-time football team," explains sophomore Noel Chakkalakal. "Maybe Ohio State will realize that after we beat them for the third time." Junior Ronan Byrne feels "that Ohio State is going to come out with a great deal of emotion, so it is important to score early." Sophomore John Polhemus maintains, "This is the biggest game for Ohio State in sixty years. For Notre Dame it is just another notch in the win column." 
Sixty years later, the fifteenth ranked Fighting Irish of Notre Dame finally square off against the seventh ranked Ohio State Buckeyes Saturday, September 30 at 
2:30 EST in Columbus Ohio. So grab your friends and make the hike to Ohio State. Everyone loves to road trip anyhow. It is just one more excuse to drink. Or if you can not make the excursion, watch the game on televi­sion. At any rate, just sit back, relax, and watch the game, because it promises to be a classic. These are the things that legends are made from. 

~--­ ----------------------,-,-,-,-,--,-,--~.~~~~-,-.----~L----------------------~--~  
'1 • I I 1 I  
page 14  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, September 29, 1995  

.., •NBA 
Dawkins off to slow start in comeback with Celtics 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 

WALTHAM, Mass. 
Darryl Dawkins, that old rim-quaking, quote-making interstellar traveler, has landed in Boston. And the man known as "Chocolate Thunder" might even stay awhile if he can lay ofT the chocolate. 
He showed up at the Celtics camp Thursday, overweight, two days late, and determined Jo control his own fate as he seeks, at age 38, to return to the 
NBA. 

Dawkins, who called his homeland "Planet Lovetron," says he's mellowed after five seasons playing in Italy and one with the Harlem Globetrotters. He's not as fluent in trash-talking -perhaps because European referees couldn't un­derstand him. 
''I'm naming layups now," the 6-foot­11 center says. 
He was with Philadelphia on Nov. 13, 1979 when he shattered a backboard in Kansas City, a dunk he rhythmically christened "Chocolate Thunder Flying, Robinzine Crying, Teeth Shaking, Glass Breaking, Rump Roasting, Bun Toasting, Wham, Bam, I Am Jam." 
But he hasn't lost his sense of humor, even as he declares that he's not simply following an unattainable dream in try­ing to rejoin a league short on backup centers. He figures he can get in shape to do 20 minutes of relief work. 
Boston coach M.L. Carr remembered one night when he was with the Celtics and nearly got into a fight with the taller, stronger Dawkins, then with the 76ers. 
"M.L. was a lightweight," Dawkins said, smiling, about the man who con­trols his immediate future. 
Dawkins, on the other hand, showed up at the rookie-free agent camp as a super-heavyweight, although he wouldn't say how far the scale tipped when he stepped on it. 
"He's not in shape," Carr said. "If he wants an opportunity, he's got to be in shape. I said that to him." 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

* * • FREE TRIPS & CASH • * *  Need 1-2 tix to SC game.  Ice Skating lansl I have an extra  STEPAN COURT TIME:  
NOTICES  Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS  Mel x1286  ticket lor a great seat lor the Oct. 4 show at theJACC. Call Nikki at  I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR  Any group requesting weekly court time at Stepan for basketball or vol­ 
and LOTS OF CASH with  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  X3878.  USC STUDENT TICKETS.  leyball must attend a meeting- 
BED&BFST  America's #1 Spring Break compa­ GA'S TO ANY/ALL  If you have USC tix, call  Thursday, Oct. 5  
LOVELY ROOM WITH PRIVATE  ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  Tom atx3893  4pm-Montgomery Theatre  
BATH. SLEEPS 2 • SMC & NO  Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  219-232-0061,24 HAS.  LaFortune  
PARENTS & FRIENDS. 272-5989  Mazallan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  For more information call Student  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ CALL 2719464 OR 2887162  Sale  Activities, 631-7308.  
ND @ WASHINGTON -2 Dbl Rms  EL (800)95-BREAKI  TICKET-MART,INC.  USCSTUDTIX  
Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch for  WANTED  REMEMBER THE GAME IS  SOME MARRIED  
4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise  RIDE NEEDED  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  DURING FALL BREAK.  2718154  Attention all Londomers Halloween  
to/from game. No game tk!S. $600.  to Indiana University  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  CALL DOUG@X-3686  is last approaching and we need to  
Mike (206)575-0711.  Oct6. Call ADAM 4-1767  BUY*SELL'TRADE  WILL PAY$$  8 USCGA'S  have all R.S.V.P. and contribution  
(219) 232-0058 -24 HAS.  NEEDED  in by Sept. 30 Please contact  
* * SPRING BREAK * *  Seeking In home child care lor an  Need 1 USC Ticket Student or  2718154  Nicole Cook at 273-2780 or Emily  
MAZATLAN, MEXICO  adorable baby. 1-4 dayslwk  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  GA. Call Anne x4896.  Mily at 273-9840 your promptness  
Best Prices. Best Parties. Organize  M-Th. 631-6561.  GAMES.272-6306  NEED TICKETS FOR WASHING­ will greatly be appreciated  
& eam free Spring Break Trip  CA family needs 3 BC GAs..  TON GAME, CALL KRISTINA @  thankslllllll  
and/or cash. Call Ron at 800-288­ GEAR UP WITH DUNHAM'S!  NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud  Please!  (503)220-8958.  
0328  DUNHAM'S, the leading discount  tic to sell X2620  Call Clara x4826  Please Help Melli  
retailer of sports apparel and equip­ NEED 1 BC ST or GA  I need a ride to Boston and back  
LITTLE FLOWER HOME DAY­ ment, is seeking outgoing, ener­ Need USC GA'S  Wanted two to lour home game  Will trade 1 USC ST or pay $$  lrorn Boston lor Fall Break! Will pay  
CARE. LOVING, STIMULATIVE  getic individuals to gear up and join  1 USC stud. needed  tickets. Call or write.  Melissa x1255  $$$ lor gas, and help drive. Please  
ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER, EDU­ Its winning team at our Mishawaka  Matt 288-3823  314-731-7604  give me a call if you can help ­ 
CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS.  store as:  Gary Goehl  Thanksll 4-2364, Una.  
LICENSED. 284-0708.  Full & Part Time  Help Wanted:  PO Box4152  HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  
SALES ASSOCIATE  Need GAs lor USC-money no  Hazelwood MO 63042  I NEED USC AND BC TIX  I wore blue yesterday!  
ILOST&FOUNDI  Field & Stream Apparel  object. Brian x3692  Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home  as many as possible, students or GAs  Thank You Mary lor favors granted  
Footwear  games. Call Tom at (312)280­ please call NORM @ 232-2955  
Found: Student ticket booklet. Call  Camping/Ski  Wanted: 4 tickets together -any  2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or  Thanks for your Support!  We're looking for a lew good  
Jenny S. at X4210.  General Athletics  home game  Greg at (708)253-7997  Mikesll Call x0826 or x0827  
& Exercise  Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC  
LOST: Keys on white surfboard  Dunham's offers competitive wages  Call 1-800-922-BEAR day  Need GA's to any game  Need Tickets For Army.  
keyring lost between  and benefits including employee  1-502-354-8826 collect in evening  Call Katie X1093  Call Jay at 4-1787.  TACKLEBOX  
Stanford/Keenan and dining hall. If  discount within a fast-paced envi­ and  
found please call X2061.  ronment. For immediate considera­ USCGATIX  WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC  THE REVEREND FUNK  
tion, apply in person at:  NEEDED  GA/STDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR  I have the USC tickets you need.  Live at JAZZMAN'S  
Fgund: Set o! ~eys on Stepan Field  DUNHAM'S  2718154  2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990­ call Gretchen@ 284-5166 with your  This Saturday @ 1 0 pm.  
on Wed. Call4-1432 to identify.  McKinley Town& Country Center  0890.  offer.  Gauranteed Good Times  
2572 Miracle Lane  I need 5 USC tix. Stud. or GA  
LOST: gold necklace with cross and  Mishawaka  Please call Margaret x2286 $$  NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$  
heart charm inscripted "Andy" on  (Or call (219)255-6600 lor more  CALL JAMIE 271-8662.  This Sunday, head to Chicago to  Thank you St.Jude lor prayers  
back. Please call 0930 if foundll  info)  NEED USC TIXI  see the American Ballet Theater  answered.  
CALL FRED AT 4364  I NEED TEXAS, USC & OHIO ST  perform, Romeo and Juliet.  
FOUND: gold ring with features. In parking lot next to Infirmary  FOR RENT  NEED B.C. Ticket-G.A. or S.A.  GA TIXS.CONFIDENTIAL 272­6306  Tickets are only $15.00 and include transportation, admission  BRIAN BOITANO & DEBI THOMAS head a cast of world-class skaters  
between Stanford and St. Michaels  Please call Anne 634-3445.  and refreshments. Bus leaves  coming to South Bend in SKATE  
Laundry. Last week in August. Call  2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  Stepan Center at 1 0:45 am.  FOR LIFE on OCTOBER 4 at 7:30  
x4205 to describe and claim.  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  NEED 2 BC TIX! I I ! I ! I  Limited number of tickets  PM at the Notre Dame Joyce  
272-6306  Please give me a call, my dad will  available at LaFortune Info desk,  Center. Tickets are on sale at the  
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION GLASS­ pay($$$) for the tix. Kevin -1177  I NEED TICKETS FOR THE  so hurry!  Notre Dame Box Office or call  
ES IN ST. MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  WASHINGTON GAME.  TicketMaster at (219) 272-7979.  
DISTRIBUTION CENTER.  232-2595  NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE  CALL CHRIS 4-4204  
CLAIM BETWEEN 8 AM & 4:30 PM  TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE  WILL TRADE CHGO BEAR, CHGO  Band ready to play out looking lor  
MON-FRI.  Sub lease available @ Turtle Cr.  OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE  BULL, CHGO SYMPHONY, OR  bass player. call Dan 3549  
for Spring sem. Call Jeff 273.4546  X4905  LYRIC OPERA TIX FOR GA USC  
Found: Reebok FB shoes 9/28 dur­ OR BC TIX. 708-330-3155  StJoe:  
- ing lunch. You drove off with them on your car. Call X3486  2 bedroomed apartment lor rent. One mile from Notre Dame.  HELPINeed USC tickets, will pay lots,call Michelle,634-2497  Buying OSU stud. tix $100 please call Brian @ 634-3322  Help me sell 110 Garrett I JAT  
Possibilify of keeping animal includ­ 2 OSUIND GA's  
Lost: Gold bracelet with colored  ing horse, covered arena. 631-5118  FOR SALE 2 BC GAs.  $250 OR B/0 BY 3:00pm  23rd ANNUAL SMC-ND  
stones. Reward. Call Lucy 4-4853  or277-5828  708-328-3019  $$ PLEASE HELP $$  x4335  SUMMER PROGRAMS IN  
'94 NO ALUM NEEDS  LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 24)  
WANTED  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  NO ALUM NEEDS OHIO ST/ARMY TIX CALL MIKE 212-574-1071  BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX CALL 516-326-2659  NIN I BOWIE Lawn Ticket Sun 10/1 CHICAGO X1467  and ROME (JUNE 16-JULY 15). TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT. FR.  
lor football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ GER. SWITZ, AND ITALY.  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING· Eam up to $2,000+/month on  vate baths. Located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 8­ Fall Break Plans? Sell me your stu­dent converted to GA tickets. Katie  4 USC Tickets lor Sale. Call4-4831.  PERSONAL  COURSES IN PHOTO, BIO, BUEC, HIST, ITALIAN AND SOC.  
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­ 9487  X4088  MEETING-CARROLL HALL  
nies. World travel Seasonal & lull­ 11111111111111111111111  (SMC) OCT 3, 7:00 PM.  
time employment available. No  ZEP HOUSE '96-97  I have 2 Ohio St. GAs lor sale.  AAA House Partyll!  FACULTY, STUDENTS, PIZZA,  
experience necessary. For more  6 bedrms. Beach V-ball ct.  **********PLEASE HELP!****'*******  Asking $500 lor both or best offerl  AAA House Party@ I#$#%  ETC. INFO-CALL PROF. A.  
information call1-206-634-0468  273-0482, 234-3831  *NEED 1 NAVY GAl'  Call Matt atX-3931  -This SATURDAY­ BLACK, 284-4460 OR 272-3726  
ext. C55841  *CALL COLLEEN AT X2191*  When?  
HELP WANTED  FOR SALE  NEED 2 USC GA TIX  Need 6 NAVY GAs Chris x4010  9:30pm-2 am Where?  Head to Chicago this Sunday and see a ballet performance of  
10-30 hrs./flx schedule  Jason 4478  LaFortune Ballroom  Romeo & Juliet. Tickets are only  
All majors/scholarships Available  FOR SALE: 89 T-BIRD. 67000  usc usc usc usc  --This SATURDAY-­ $15.00 and include transportation,  
$10.25  MILES. AFTER 5 CALL 234-0676  WILL TRADE 2 OSU TIX 4 2 USC  Four USC Tix needed  AAA House Party!@##$%  admission and refreshments. The  
282-2357  GAsX2855  stud. orGA  AAA House Party!@#$%  bus will leave Sunday, from  
86 Honda CRX Red Exclnt in and  Call Tom x3410  /1/llllllllllllllllll/11  Stepan at10:45 am. There are  
NO MBA WIFE STUD.  out71k $2200 Jim 234 0985  CALIFORNIA GIRLS NEED  usc usc usc usc  only a lew tickets are left, inquire  
will babysit luiVpart time in your/  2 USC TICKETS  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  at the LaFortune Info desk.  
my place SANDRA 2878640  !@#$#"%*"&%#@ @#$$%  GA'S OR STUDENT  2 OSU TIX for SALE  LaFortune Student Center  
II you like BASS, you'll like this  CALLX2089  x3254  We're open lor your conveniencelll  What's an Eva?  
Flexible work sched.: about 1­ 150 watt 15"  ASK FOR PETE  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  
2hr/day Sat am. about 10-15/wk.  SUBWOOFER  Desperate alumni needs tix to Ohio  Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm  Kiddo,  
Need responsible, energetic, friend­ Call4-1668  State. Call Tom at708-848-7992.  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  100173, yup I still remember.  
ly person to help keep store  #@ $%&"*(()"&"%#$#$  I Need 3 tickets lor ARMYI  Sun.: Noon -Midnight  OK so this stuff took awhile to get to  
clean/prepare classrooms. Call  Call Mike at 3258.  Desperate Alumni needs tix to  (closed home football Saturdays)  you, but here it is. Thanks lor the  
Erica's  Brand New 25 Gal. Fishtank  Boston College. Call Tom at708­ call and say hi to the little beepers.  
233-3120 M W F 9-2 or Cathy 277­ All Accesories included  848-7992.  0o0c0c0c0c0o0c0b0o0c0  -An lllinios Farmer  
9661. Outdoor help needed also.  Call Philip 273 -6540  NEED 4 USC GAs Katie 4015  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLYIII  
COLUMBUS NATIVE WANTS TO  THE COPY SHOP  Aren't you a little short lor a  
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  Need 2 USC GA's  SEE HOME TOWN TEAM GET  LaFortune Student Center  stormtrooper?  
Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Best  NIN I BOWIE ticket  Will Pay For Them  KILLED BY NO. EMILY @ 273­ Phone 631-COPY  
Trips & Prices I Bahamas, Cancun,  Sun 10/1 Chicago x1467  Call Rusty x-0993  9840  0c0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0c0c0  Katie-I'm keeping my secret, can  
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break  you wait that long?  
Travell1-800-678-6386  1993 Tercel, 2 door, stick, AC,  $$$$$ NEED TWO USC STDT  Notre Dame alum coming home for  Student Activities is accepting  
AMIFM tape, 24,000 miles.  TIX. CALL JESSE 234-3952 $$$$  the USC game, tickets desperately  applications for a Ballroom  Nelanie,  
Guitarist and Singer looking lor  $8,600.00 Call287-0146  needed. Call 818-792-2882  Monitor and 24Hr. Lounge Monitor.  You are still the cutest thing  
di'Ummer and bassist to put togeth­ I need tickets lor BC, USC, and  Pick up applications at315  ever. I miss ya lots.  
er an Alternative Band Call Ricky at4-124B  TICKETS  Navy. Please call Bryan. 272-4249  STUD TIX BOOKLET 4 SALE, call Ben 273-4226  LaFortune. Deadline Monday, Ocl.2.  Your pal, D  

....------------"'-!'r:"."':'."':'.~. ~."""':"":"'7"-:-:"':"".""--;""-:-:-"-:--:-:--~. \-;-~ ..-;--­
"':'."':'. 

Friday, September 29, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Mariners move closer to Western crown 
Associated Press (1 0-1 0) for his eighth career Minnesota's leadoff hitter, and grand slam. Luis Sojo walked two batters later shattered 
Ken Griffey Jr. broke an with one out, Dan Wilson sin­Puckett's upper jaw with a wild eighth-inning tie with a grand gled and Vince Coleman walked fastball. slam as the Seattle Mariners before Griffey's drive into the He overcame the bad start to beat the Texas Rangers 6-2 right-field stands, his 17th work six strong innings, and Thursday night and moved to­homer of the season. the Indians got a homer from ward their first AL West title. Pavlik retired 12 consecutive Eddie Murray for the third time 
Seattle, which began the day hitters before Edgar Martinez in two games and only the sec­with a two-game lead over sec­led off the fifth with a double ond of the season from Alvaro ond-place California, was in down the left-field line. Jay Espinoza in a 12-4 victory over position to clinch a tie if the An­Buhner then hit a 420-foot the Minnesota Twins. gels lost to Oakland later homer over the left-field fence. "I felt so bad, I almost took Thursday night. It was his 39th homer of the myself out of the game," Mar­
Randy Johnson (17 -2) gave up season and his club-record 13th tinez said. "I tried to go inside nine hits in 8 1-3 innings, strik­during September. and jam him. He might have ing out seven and walking two. thought it was going outside. He allowed a two-run homer to Indians 12, Twins 4 He never had a chance to move. Mickey Tettleton in the second. "It hurt so much to know I sat 
Norm Charlton finished for Dennis Martinez almost down one of my best friends in his 13th save. couldn't go on after he hit Kirby baseball.... It's the worst feel­
Texas was eliminated with Puckett in the face Thursday. ing I've ever had in my life." the loss, dropping four games He did, though, and so did the "I thought the Twins handled behind the New York Yankees Cleveland Indians' overpower­it very well," Cleveland man­in the wild-card race with three ing season. ager Mike Hargrove said. "They games to go. Known for throwing inside, did what they had to do, and 
With the score tied 2-2, Grif­Martinez hit Chuck Knoblauch, then we played baseball." 
fey connected off Roger Pavlik Puckett appeared to be ready to stride for an outside pitch when the ball hit him in the left cheek. He went down for sev­eral minutes, blood pouring from his nose and mouth. He was helped from the field with a blood-spattered towel cover­ing his mouth. 

Finished for the final three games of the season, Puckett is expected to need four to six weeks to recover. 
Knoblauch, hit in the left shoulder leading off the Twins' first, was among the first play­ers to reach Puckett after he was hit. In the Twins' somber clubhouse, Knoblauch de­scribed a scene he said made 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Eucharistic Minister Hour of Recollection 
Sunday, 
October1, 1995 2:30p.m. 
ItisrequiredbyBishopJohn D'Arcy thateveryone involvedinEucharistic Ministrymustparticipateinan annual service ofprayerandreflection in ordertobe commissioned.
0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
him feel faint. 
"I ran up there and he kind of tried to roll over and he was bleeding quite a lot," Knoblauch said. "I couldn't be­lieve how much he was bleed­ing. There was a pile of it in the dirt. I'm still a little bit shaken by it." 
Red Sox 11, Brewers 6 
Reggie Jefferson, Dwayne Hosey, John Valentin and Tim Naehring and Mike Macfatlane homered as the Boston Red Sox beat the Milwaukee Brewers 11-6 Thursday night. 
Roger Clemens (10-5), mak­ing his final start before the playoffs, allowed four runs and five hits in five innings with seven strikeouts and two walks. 
Bob Scanlan ( 4-7) allowed 11 of his 15 batters to reach base. He was tagged for nine runs and eight hits in 1 2-3 innings. 
Boston took a 4-0 lead in the first on Mike Greenwell's two­run single and Jefferson's two­run homer off the left-field foul pole, then chased Scanlan in a six-run second. 
Luis Alicea was hit in the left ankle by a pitch, prompting a brief standoff between the teams, and Hosey hit the next pitch for a 6-2 lead. Three pitches later, Valentin hit his 27th homer of the season. Jef­ferson's RBI single chased Scanlan and Naehring hit Joe 
~/2S!II@~c~0%1U~-------=~~------~-----,• 
Career Fair 
October 6, 1995 
OLDE, America's Full Service Discount Broker5M, is looking for motivated people to establish a career in the stock brokerage business. 
OLDE offers: 4-12 month paid training program Potential six-figure income Excellent benefits 
If you possess excellent communication skills, gen­eral market knowledge and the desire to excel, see us at the Career Fair on October 6, 1995. 
If you are unable to attend the Career Fair call: 
. 

1 800 937-0606 
or send resume to: OLDE Discount Stockbrokers National Recruiting 751 Griswold Street 
.. 
Detroit, MI 48226 



Slusarski's second pitch for a two-run homer. 
Macfarlane homered off Mark Kiefer in the ninth. B.J. Surhoff drove in a pair of runs for the Brewers. 
Royals 4, White Sox 0 

Mark Gubicza pitched a four­hitter as the Kansas City Royals stopped a 23-inning scoreless streak and beat the Chicago White Sox 4-0 Thursday night. 
Gubicza, 1-3 with an 8.39 ERA in his previous five starts, pitched his 15th career shutout, his third of the season. It marked the first time since 1989 that he pitched more than one complete game in a year. 
Gubicza (12-14) struck out three and walked one. 
Johnny Damon singled in a run in the third and tripled in another in a three-run fifth as Kansas City clinched second place in the AL Central. The Royals, playing their final home game of the season, averaged 17,614 fans per game, their lowest since averaging 14,959 in 1975. 
Wilson Alvarez (8-11) pitched his second complete game, allowing eight hits, striking out five and walking one. 
Kansas City, 14-27 against lefthanded starters, hadn't scored since the fifth inning Sunday before Damon's RBI single in the third. 
Pet GB 
.536 .529 1 .507 3 
Pet. GB 
.539 .529 1 1/2 .514 4 
game 

-


I 

I page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 29, 1995 
• NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Cubs keep playoff hopes alive with win 
Associated Press 
Randy Myers brawled on the field with a fan and the Chicago Cubs repeatedly battled back in the game to stay alive in the NL wild-card race Thursday with a wild 12-11 victory over the Houston Astros .• 
The Cubs fell behind in the sixth, seventh, eighth and lOth innings and rallied to tie each time. Pinch-hitter Mike Brum­ley's first home run since 1989 gave Houston an 11-10 lead in the 11th, but Chicago got RBI singles from Scott Bullett and Mike Parent to win it. 
.ChicagQ .h~d. to sweep the re­maining three games in this series and needed Colorado to lose its four games to San Francisco to force a tie for the playoff spot. The Rockies' series opener was later Thursday. 
Houston entered the day trail­ing Colorado by a game. · _ Myers, the NL saves leader, entered a 7-7 game with one on and one out in the eighth. After James Mouton's two-out pinch­hit homer put Houston ahead 9­7, a man identified as John Murray of Riverside, Ill., ran onto the field toward Myers. 
Myers saw Murray coming, threw down his glove and land­ed some punches before the two wrestled on the ground near the infield. Several other Chicago players broke up the fight and security personnel removed Murray, who was ar­rested by police and charged with misdemeanor assault and disorderly .conduct. 
After order was restored, the 

Cubs tied the game in their half 
of the eighth on Howard John­
son's RBI single and Mark 
Grace's run-scoring double. 
Mouton's sacrifice fly put 

Houston up 10-9 in the lOth, 
but the Cubs tied it on Sammy Sosa's sac fly. 
Shawon Dunston led off the Cubs' 11th with a single off Todd Jones (6-5). After a passed ball on Tony Eusebio, Bullett fouled off six two-strike pitches before delivering an RBI single to right field. Bullett went to second on Jose Her­nandez's sacrifice and scored when Parent singled on a 3-2 pitch. 
Anthony Young (3-4) was the winning pitcher. 
Giants 12, Rockies 4 

Barry Bonds and Matt Williams hit three-run homers, powering the San Francisco Gi­ants past Colorado 12-4 Thurs­day night and preventing the Rockies from tying Los Angeles for the NL West lead. 
The idle Dodgers lead the Rockies by one game, with each team having three games left. Despite the defeat, Colorado remained one game ahead of Houston in the wild-card race. The Astros lost 12-11 to Chicago in 11 innings. 
Bonds hit his 33rd home run in the first inning, giving him 102 RBis. He singled home a run during a five-run fifth that made it 9-0. 
San Francisco tied a season­high with 18 hits in ending a four-game losing streak. Rich Aurilia, who had been hitless in his previous four major league at-bats, was 4-for-5 with a solo home run. 
The Rockies got to Jamie 
Brewington (6-4) for a run in 
the fifth on three straight sin­
gles and Mike Kingery's sacri­
fice fly. In the sixth, Joe Gi­
rardi's RBI single and pinch­
hitter Harvey Pulliam's two-run 
double made it 9-4. 
Bonds homered off Bryan 
Rekar (4-6) after singles by 

GREAT \YALL 
Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 and 19931 Szechuan •Cantonese •American Chinese Resta1rrant &Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch· Every Sunday S8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children under 10 

Cleveland Signstage 
Theatre's national touring 
production of Mark Medoff's 
Tony-Award winning drama 
Children 
ofa 

Lesser 
God 
, 
One Show Only! 
Friday • Sept. 29 8:00P.M. 
For ticket information, call 219/284-4626 Mon.-Fri. 9p.m.-5p.m. 
Marvin Benard and Steve Scar­sone. Benard singled off third baseman Vinny Castilla's glove for another run in the second. 
Benard began the fifth with a ground-rule double, Scarsone bunted for a hit and Bonds fol­lowed with an RBI single. Williams greeted reliever Roger Bailey with a three-run homer, his 22nd. 
Brewington, who pitched six shutout innings in a 2-0 win over Colorado last Saturday, benefitted from two double plays to avoid trouble in the first and third. The Rockies threatened again in the fourth when Andres Galarraga singled and Castilla doubled, but Brewington retired Girardi on a ground out. 
Reds 9, Expos 7 

Greg Harris became the first player to pitch with both hands in a game in modern major league history, working a scoreless ninth inning Thursday night for the Montreal Expos in a 9-7 loss to Cincinnati. 
Using a special six-finger glove, Harris became the first ambidextrous pitcher in the majors since Elton "Ice Box" Chamberlain of the Louisville Colonels of the American Asso­ciation in 1888. 
Bert Campaneris was the last pitcher to use both hands in a professional game, doing it in 1962 for Daytona Beach in the Florida State League. Cam­paneris went on to become an All-Star shortstop in the ma­jors, and once played all nine positions in a game. 
Harris, the NL's oldest pitcher at 39, entered the game in the ninth. Pitching right-handed, he got the right-handed Reggie Sanders to ground out. 
Harris then switched his glove and pitched left-handed to lefty Hal Morris. Harris' first pitch as a lefty went to the backstop, and he walked Morris on four pitches. 
But Harris did better as a left­hander against lefty Eddie Taubensee, getting him to ground out. 
Harris then went back to be­ing a righty and retired the right-hand hitting Bret Boone on another grounder. 
Montreal manager Felipe Alou said before the game he intended to let Harris make his­tory, "but it won't be in a situa­tion with the game on the line." Harris entered with the Expos losing 9-3. 
Harris entered in a mopup roll after Cincinnati starter Pete Schourek (18-7) worked six in­nings. Jerome Walton hit a three-run homer in the eighth for a 9-3 lead as the Reds ended a three-game losing streak. 
Schourek allowed three runs on seven hits. He struck out six and hit two batters, including Montreal starter Pedro Mar­tinez, which drew a warning from plate umpire Gerry Davis. 
Schourek, 5-0 in his last seven starts, has the second­most victories among NL pitch­ers behind Atlanta's Greg Maddux, who has 19. 

The Prelaw Society presents: 
How to 

Write an Effective Personal Statement Dean Jack Pratt 
Notre Dame Law School 

Thesday October 3, 1995 7 p.m. 
101 Notre Dame Law School 
~ §fltfj(lf VllCJZtfjS at 
"Stylesfor all Walks ofLife" 
1811 South Bend Ave. • South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 271-7674 

Come In Before Break & Get A 2oz. Paul Mitehell Produet To Take On Vacation! 
• Formerly "WE CARE HAIR", in the Campus Shoppes. Same talented staff, with additional stylists to serve you. 
Hours: 
Mon.-Fri. 
9a.m. -8p.m. Sat. 9a.m. -Sp.m. 
Sun. 
11 a.m.-4p.m. 
Walk-ins Welcome 
r---~)r~{;-~-4[)~:---, 
Paul Mitchell Product 
1With Any Service. 1 
I I 
L-----~!'!.ir.!'~ !1.!'~ ~~._I_?~~-----J 
-

Friday, September 29, 1995 • The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
have to face some friends and previous teammates. 
"I'm excited to play Cincin­natti. It'll be interesting to play against girls I've played with be for(},~ sne explained. 
Ohio State is expected to play an emotional game on Sunday. 
"This will be a very big game for them. They are playing at home, and will look to draw emotions from the (football) game on Saturday," predicted Petrucelli. 
Another physical team, the Buckeyes literally will look to knock the Irish out of their game. The key to avoiding the pressure will be quick passing and effective ball control, trademarks for the Irish attack. 
Coach Petrucelli noted that the Irish have not had their projected starting line-up to­gether in a game for very long. 
"We haven't fielded our best 11 players yet. As soon as Cindy (Daws) came back, we lost Ashley. We've yet to play our best," Petrucelli explained. 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
man middle blocker Melissa Tytko. Youngblood ranks fourth in the Big East witli an average of 10.28 assists per game, while Tytko enters the weekend with 
a .355 hitting percentage. 
"We can't afford to take any Big East team too lightly," said Brown. "We will have to exe­cute the fundamentals well against both teams. We are a good offensive team, and when we pass and serve well, we are tough to beat." 
Notre Dame will battle Vil­lanova on Sunday in the first meeting ever between the two private schools. The Wildcats enter the weekend with a record of 6-6, but they are com­ing off a strong 1994 season in which they finished 19-12. 
To have any chance of upset­ting the Irish, both the Hoyas and the Wildcats will have to slow down Notre Dame's red hot quartet of Lee, Angie Harris, Carey May, and Jenny Birkner. The group exploded against the Buffaloes last weekend after struggling late against the Longhorns. 
Outside hitters Harris and Lee rank 1-2 in the Big East in kills per game with respective aver­ages of 4.58 and 4.55. Harris, who has already been named the conference's Player of the Week twice, also ranks second in the league in serving with an average of .63 aces per game. 
"The Texas loss was tough, but we're fully recovered," said Harris. "We've been playing really good lately and we've started executing our game. As long as we're playing our best, we know we're going to win." 
As it turns out, the Irish's lone loss of the season may just prove to be a blessing in dis­guise. 

-
-~---~---~ 
'''.' '' ' ' ·r~c-t ' ' 
, , , o,, t , f I I o 
assist. The Irish capped ofT the scoring just under three min­
Men 
utes later, when Capasso netted 


continued from page 24 
and had a few great chances 
when David ·cutler hit the 
crossbar and Tony Capasso put 
a direct kick wide right of the 
net. 
Notre Dame's patience paid 
off about 15 minutes into the 
half, when reserve forward 
Peter Gansler made the score 
2-0 with his first ever goal in an 
Irish uniform. Gansler got a 
great pass from Konstantin 
Koloskov and frred the ball past 
Loyola goalie Chris Walter. 
The Irish struck again just four minutes later, when mid­fielder Chris Mathis took a pass from Ben Bocklage and buried the goal in the upper left corner to push the Irish lead to 3-0. The goal was Mathis' fourth of the season, and appeared to ·crush the Lions' collective 
heart. 
The game's fourth goal came 
at the 73:10 mark, when Kon­
stantin Koloskov scored his ftfth 
gpal of the. sea.son, and third in 
two games ofT a Tony Capasso his second goal of the game when he beat Walter from about 20 yards out. 
The Irish were able to neu­tralize Loyola's attack all game, led by solid goaltending from freshman Greg Velho, who recorded his first career shutout on the night. The Irish offense, in outshooting Loyola 27-13, looked great considering the absence of star forward Bill Lanza. 
"This was obviously an im­portant win for us," said Notre Dame head coach Mike Berti­celli. "We've had such bad luck with the injuries, and some close losses. Peter Gansler scored a great goal for us in fill­ing in up front, and I though Greg Velho had a good game for us in the net. This win is good for us heading into Sun­day's game against Northwest­ern." 
The Irish hope to continue the winning trend when they meet the Wildcats in Evanston on Sunday for another non-con­ference match. 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Maryland ranking short-lived 
By ED SHEARER Associated Press 
C.J. Williams scored on runs of 37 and 14 yards and Georgia Tech's defense had a night filled with big plays as the Yel­low Jackets snapped a 13-game losing streak against Division I­A foes with a 31-3 upset of No. 17 Maryland Thursday night. 
The Jackets (2-2, 1-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) had_six sacks and an interception against Scott Milanovich, making his first appearance for the Terrapins (4-1, 2-1) after an NCAA-imposed four-game sus­pension for gambling. 
'Tech also· snapped its ACC losing streak at nine games dat­ing back to its last 1-A victory, 38-28 over Wake Forest on Nov. 13, 1993. It was the Jackets' first victory over a ranked team since beating No. 23 North Carolina State 16-13 on Oct. 3, 1992. 
Besides the sacks for 51 yards, Tech's pass rush also deflected two of Milanovich's passes at the line of scrimmage. The Jackets defense also stopped three fourth-down gambles by the' Terps in the 

0 F AMERICA 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
Do.n't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend's dance! 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46635 
(219) 288--3995 
, 
• 
M,F 7:30,7 Sat 8,6 -Sun JQ,5 

Edison 

"All major credit cards accepted" CHARGE BY PHoNE 

second half, at the Tech 34, 40 and 35. 
Linebacker Jimmy Clements had three of the sacks for the Jackets and Ralph Hughes, Jerrnaine Miles and Patrick Bradford one each. 
Tech's other scoring came on a 25-yard pass from Donnie Davis to Cedric Zachery, who made a twisting catch in the end zone, a 19-yard run by Charles Wiley with 1:23 to play and a 37-yard field goal by Dave Frakes. 
Maryland cut Tech's lead to 10-3 on a 22-yard field goal by Joe O'Donnell with 3:12 left in the second quarter, capping a 77-yard drive in which Mi­lanovich was 7-of-8 for 84 yards. 
Helped by a 15-yard pass in­terference infaction, Tech moved 44 yards on its frrst pos­session to take a 3-0 lead on Frakes' field goal, then went 91 yards in 11 plays as Davis passed for 40 yards to set up Williams' 37 -yard run. 
The Terps were riding their frrst 4-0 start since winning its first eight in 1978, these com­ing with sophomore Brian Cummings at quarterback. 
The Observer/ Mike Ruma 

Freshman goaltender Greg Vehlo recorded his first career shu.tout as the Irish defeated Loyola of Chicago 5·0 to end a four-game losing streak Thursday. 
Cummings saw no action in Thursday night's game. 
Williams, who had 166 yards on 27 carries, set up Wiley's late touchdown with a 30-yard scamper to the Maryland 35. 
Tech drew a 15-yard penalty when students threw seat cush­ions into the end zone for the second time following its second touchdown. 
. -~~~~-­
Engagement Rings . , 
10%-15% OFF! 
Official Wholesale Price List! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. llbshington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page Color CDtalog 
ToU-Fnt (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977..0248 Internet C4/olog lll hllp: llwww.upul.com/sapeck 


. PANCAKE BREAKFAST , . ' : 
. . 
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE & $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-6W 



Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Jerome Bettis and the undefeated St. Louis Rams are one of only three remaining undefeated teams in the National Footballleague. 
In-Line , Skating Clinic 

.... 
Monday, October 9 5:15-6:30 PM Parking Lot South of the Joyce Center 
E ui ment Provided 
Advance Registration at RecSports Required $5.00Fee AllLevels Welcome 
631.0100 

CIHE.IA\ AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 


~~.·.·.···.··· .. 

.7' .· 

.-(J}ou'JI never 
'-" ~Ul-<i:o. the ~urprisc 
ar the heart of... 
·' 

muRiel's~dlng 
.t.e·~ 1101 1ust fG>ttott mar.1oo. shcl'1 ge«mg ~. "-l•"JII. ·i. .. "*~~:<~~-..~.~.~~ .... ~~.:.tf .... .., 
• u·o ifrl.~i,,HJtA,•IIIIU'Iil!a!t:,.~·~··.,...wo•a><:-...::.-. ~ ~:.1:*=1 ~-$ -· "!'tHf~ ,·,•••n .. ,.,,,~~ ;Mijrj:•Wl~Etn 
M•"'.,.,..].,l.'.-'*-•·:· :<·:.:-~.,M~' . :+..-1¥ ~ 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
-------------------------------------------· ~ 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• NFL 
Rams look to remain perfect 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

The St. Louis Rams can set an NFL record on Sunday with the Indianapolis Colts standing in the way. 
St. Louis is the only NFL team that has not turned over the ball, a significant reason for the team's 4-0 start. If the Rams don't have a turnover against Indianapolis (1-2) on Sunday, they'll become the first team in league history to go five con­secutive games without a turnover. 
"It's going to be real unfortu­nate for the first person to turn the football over, because they're going to take a whole lot of flak," said St. Louis run­ning back Jerome Bettis. "People are going to take it a little bit out of perspective, say 'What happened?' and make a really big deal out of it. Usually it's part of the game." 
The Rams, who won only four .games all last year, travel to Indianapolis alone atop the NFC West standings for the first ;ime since 1989. They're plus­14 in the takeaway-giveaway statistics, with nine intercep­tions and five fumble recover­ies. Four of the turnovers have been returned for touchdowns and 44 of the team's 99 points have come after a turnover. 
Bettis leads the team with 228 yards rushing and has had more than half the team's 117 carries. 
"Who doesn't want the foot­ball more? When you ask the wide receivers, they want the ball more," Bettis said. "In terms of our offense, I think I'm getting it an awful lot for the system. I think once we under­stand the philosophy, in terms of blocking a little better, I think you'll see me have some bigger games. I don't think you need more than 20-25 carries to be effective. If you've got the guys in front of you blocking good, then that's all you nMd." 
The Rams will be facing the only team in the league without an interception and Indianapo­lis also has a league-low one sack. 
"Defensively, we do have to get some turnovers. We do have to get some pressure on the quarterback. I think that's finally going to happen," said Colts cornerback Ray Buchanan, who had a team­high eight interceptions last year. 
''I'm not discouraged at all. We have 13 games. People say we haven't had an interception yet. That really doesn't bother me," Buchanan said. "Last year I went seven games with­out an interception, and then I finally started to come around. I'm not going to go out there looking for an interception, but. when they do come, when my opportunity. comes to get the ball, I will make the play." 
The Colts are coming off a bye week as they head into their toughest stretch of the schedule. Undefeated Miami, defending Super Bowl champi­on San Francisco and Oakland are the next opponents for an Indianapolis team that has struggled for an identity early in the season. 
Harbaugh, expected to make his second straight start for the Colts after replacing a Craig Erickson at quarterback in each of the season's first two weeks, goes into the game with the league's highest quarter­back rating at 106.3. He's com­pleted 39 of 62 passes (62.9) for 450 yards and four touchdowns without an interception. 
"They've earned all the turnovers they've gotten," Harbaugh said of the Rams. "They haven't gotten anything cheap. They play a defense where they really drQp into their zones, they react on the quarterback's eyes, and the throw. They tip passes and they hit the receiver once he touches the ball. They're a very solid team defensively." 
Pittsburgh looks for revenge 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associat~d Press 
PITTSBURGH 

It's the rematch-Chargers vs. Steelers, the AFC champi­onship game revisited. Will it be a replay? Hardly. 
Flash back to last Jan. 15, with the underdog Chargers, only 1-9 in Three Rivers Sta­dium, leading 17-13 with barely a minute left. The Pittsburgh Steelers, so confident of victory that were already rehearsing their Super Bowl rap video, were down to fourth-and-goal at the 3. 
One play to the Super Bowl, or one play left in the season? 
Neil O'Donnell, given· the play seconds before by a smiling, confident coach Bill Cowher, drops back to pass. But, instead of going to tight end Eric Green, who had made four catches for 80 yards, O'Donnell is looking over the middle -looking all the way for running back Barry Foster. 
Foster is momentarily open but, as he sprawls for the ball, linebacker Dennis Gibson dives in front to swipe it away with his hand. 
It is the play of the season, 
The Department of Music Faculty Artist Series P"""''  ~ ~111\.Q\ 
~u• .....§.~~  
The Songs ofHenri Duparc  
(1848-1933)  performed by  

Rev. Patrick Maloney, c.s.c., tenor and Katherine Glaser, piano 
2:00 p.m., Sunday, 1 October Annenberg Auditorium 
at the Snite Museum of Art Admission is Free and Open to the Public. 
and one that ends the Steelers' season five points and three yards short. 
"In terms of professional foot­ball, it's ancient history," Gibson said. "But I'll tell you, I've gotten a hell of a lot of mileage out of it. I wish I could get royalties for it." 
Now, just 8 1/2 months later, none of the Steelers' principles in that defining play of 1994 will be involved in Sunday's rematch. O'Donnell (broken fin­ger) probably won't play for another week. Green has signed with Miami. Foster was traded to Carolina and cut. 
The Chargers (3-1), cognizant of the evolution the Steelers have undergone, remain wary of an unfriendly stadium where they are winless (0-9) in the regular season. 
"The Steelers still run, still hit, are still very physical, and are very physical at the line of scrimmage," Chargers coach Bobby Ross said. "All of those things are still there." 
The Steelers, the NFL leaders in turnover ratio last year but now last, wish they could bury all those interceptions (13), fumbles (4) and a league-high 41 penalties. 
.&Jlli~ml~ll@l]l IFir~~IlurDID~mlq ~CIDIPiluCIDrDiilCID~~ &ml<dl IT1ID.mlrrem~ 
Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of the world outside of Canada and Western Europe. Applicable to most foreign study abroad programs. 
Come to the informational meeting with Professor Jennifer Warlick on Monday evening, October 2, 1995 at 7:00p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo. 
... 
-
'I •,'' 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 29, 1995 
• INTERHAll fOOTBALl 
Late score wins for Walsh 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sporn Writer 
Fans of women's interhall football witnessed two easy vic­tories and a thrilling come­from-behind win last night at Cartier Field. 
Walsh saved the best for last by scoring in th~ fmal minute of regulation to defeat Badin 12-8. 
Badin lit up the scoreboard first with a 5-yard touchdown pass. After the 2-point conver­sion, Badin led by a score of 8­0. 
Walsh countered on the next possession when Uz Rodriguez outraced Badin's cornerback. Quarterback Carolyn Parnell spotted her receiver and threw a touchdown pass to make the score 8-6. 
Walsh began the second half with continued success by throwing a 20-yard pass to an outstretched Rodriguez. Badin defense halted the drive, how­ever, with their second inter­ception of the game. 
Walsh was faced with one last chance to take the lead late in the fourth quarter. On a key third down play, Nicholas kept the snap and ran up the middle to keep the drive alive. A few plays later, she sneaked past the defensive line for another key first down. Finally, with less than one minute remain­ing, Nicholas found an open receiver in the end zone for the winning touchdown. 
After Badin regained posses­sion on the kickoff, Walsh sealed the victory with an in­terception that ended the game. 

We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great price ...Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or stop by today and y,e'll show you 
how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 
rHlCKORlJ 
DlLLAC3Ef! 
Mon.·Fri. 8·6, Sat. 10·4 & Sun. 12-4 

Lyons second touchdown oc­Lyons 19, Cavanaugh 0 curred when Julie Byrd slashed 
Defending champion Lyons through the defense to make 
rebounded from their tough the score 13-0. 
loss to Pangborn by dominating The score remained the same 
Cavanaugh on both sides of the until late in the second half ball. 
when Lyons put the game away with a touchdown reception by receiver Kerry Callahan. 
Pangborn 19, Howard 0 

Top-ranked Pangborn dis­played their incredible speed by scoring three touchdowns to defeat Howard. 
Pangborn reached the end zone for the first time on their second possession of the game. Quarterback MT Craft threw a 
well early by sacking the quar­terback on fourth down of Lyons' first possession. On of­fense, running back Carrie Gulick ran for several long gains. 
Lyons quickly took control of the game when Cathy Tschanz caught a strike from quarter­back Julie Byrd to make the score 6-0. 
Defensively, Lyons kept pres­sure on the quarterback the entire game and made the big plays when necessary. 

long bomb to her receiver who raced past defenders for the score. 
On their first possession of the second half, MT Craft did an excellent job evading defenders and ran 50 yards for another touchdown. 
Pangborn capped off their impressive performance when running back Trish Sorensen ran the ball into the end zone from the 5-yard line late in the game. 
OCTOBER 1 
A benefit for the South Bend Center for the Homeless 
an all day extravaganza 
over 30 artists inel-........................... readings, musie, and art exhibits. Perforrner·s inelude: lntintate Stt~ange..~ John \V. Taylor·~ Reve..end Funk, Geo..ge and the Ft-eeks, T\v~_,ak. X-Ray Roger Jbnnty, emiLy, taeklebox~ ltaee frio and ntany more \Vith speeial 4AD recording artists oriee 
Beginning at NOON and running until around 1oPM edison plaza ~ 1631 edison road ~ south bend, In 46637 (219) 273-6216 

DISMAS, luG. 
~841 SOUTH~~'"ME. SOUTH BEND~·-U837 
OFFICE OF ALCOHOL &DRUG EDUCATION 
(219) m-1331 !219) 273·f!058 (F"X) the eSTaTe art collective
NOTRE DAME
lmncstp lnttrnational South Bend, Chicago, New Jeney 
..----------~.'•....-r.,-;-;-,' ........ ;-;-r,. ""!'"";".~.
'oooo:-:.,--..,....---r'!"'!'"!""P""!"---------------------.
0 

' o I 1° \I : ,' • I I I I ' 0 ' 
Friday, September 29, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
...... 



'15 

POW~'R 
Mu(ticu(tura£ 'E:(ecutive Council 
MULTICULTURHL FHLL FESTIUHL 
CULTURE 

ON THE QUAD October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club Greek Club Filipino Club 
TroopND 

Fireside Chats 
October 2-6 .. Women in the Hrts.. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 12:15-1 : 1 5 p.m. Monday: Professor Lyonga Tuesday: Professor Rlice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus Friday: Jill 6odmillow 
TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Entertainment by Sabor Latino 
SPECIAL 
EUENTS 

October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00p.m. Eun-Sook Lee 
-
OctoberS BallRoom 7:00p.m. John Ole Tome 
-· 


~---------.., 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, September 29, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S VOllEYBAll 
Chicago falls in three straight 
By KATHLEEN N. POLICY Sports Writer 
The University of Chicago was a much easier test Thursday night for the Saint Mary's vol­leyball team than their last con­test at Albion College. The Belles were victorious in three straight games (f5-8, 15-10,15­1). The match was a good con­test and the Belles record is now 6-5. 
.Saint Mary's coach .Julie Schroeder-Biek was happy with her team's performance in this contest. She was glad that some players that normally do not receive playing time into this game. 
"The game was a team effort. I was proud that players like (sophomore) Meg Winkler and (freshman) Kelli Lovell did such a good job. Kelli rarely gets playing time, but she served two game points in the match," said Schroeder-Biek. 
One of the team's major prob­lems in the game against Albion was finishing off games, but in this game Schroeder-Biek felt they showed improvement in this area. 
"The last game the team re­ally took control of the game and ran with it. The weren't going to let the game go," said Schroeder-Biek. 
The players saw a similar turn-around from the last game. They felt that this change was a result of the tougher practices after Mon­day's loss. In practice they ran drills centered on pressured fo­cus. The object of these drills was for the players to keep their concentration while they were tired. 
" The practices were very dif­ficult, and we worked very hard 

• MEN'S TENNIS 
Fallon invitational set 
ByB.J. HOOD Sports Writer 
The sixteenth-ranked Notre Dame men's tennis team will host the Tom Fallon Invitational this weekend. I<ourteen· teams will be partici­pating, including Colorado, Kentucky, Michigan, Michigan State, Miami, and Purdue. 
Notre Dame is coming off a big 4-3 win over Texas, a top ten team the last four years. The win pleased head coach Bob Bayliss. 
"Our problems are fixable things," Bayliss said. "I think we're going to be pretty good. We're going to be fun to watch." 
However, the Irish will be without the services of Ryan Simme, Mike Sprouse, and Ja­son Pun, who are playing the National Clay Courts in Balti­more, Maryland. 
Playing the A flight this week­
~1 7:ll\l t $FAf~ lll:fO~E 6 Pl.l*110 PAS~b ~UPUl,I.Vti1S II(.CEPTE() 
end are John J. O'Brien and Jakub Pietrowski. Pietrowski helped secure the doubles point against Texas and played num­ber three singles. John J. O'Brien started out his match 2-2, but did not lose another game en route to an impressive victory. 
"O'Brien broke (the oppo­nent) down the first four games, and didn't lose another game," Bayliss noted. "He showed a lot of heart." 
Brian Harris, Ron Mencias, Brian Patterson, and Dan Roth­schild will compete B flight. 
Play begins at nine a.m. Fri­day through Sunday. Bayliss thinks fanS will like what they see from the Irish. 
"We'd like to make a great showing. We'd love to see peo­ple come out and watch some great tennis." 

lllii'EIIZ::Z::::z:m:Z::Z:::r.I!ZIQ 
"Clockers" 
2:30, 5:30, 8:30 
"Desperado" (R) 
1:30,4:15, 7:15,9:40 
"Apollo 13" 
1:45, 4:45, 8:00 

on coming out tough and trying to reach our goal," said senior Ann Lawrence. 
The key player in the match was sophomore Kelly Meyer. She served for 22 of the Belles 45 points and had 30 assists. 
"The key was our communi­cation. We talked a lot and just played our positions," said Meyer. 
Aggressiveness and commu­nication were stressed in this morning's practice. It was im­proved in this game, but Schroeder-Biek still was not happy with it. 
The Belles' next match is a triangular match at North Cen­tral College versus both North Central and Carroll College. 
"These are both very com­petitive teams, and I expect them both to be very good match-ups," said Schroeder­Biek. 


' ' ...it is about tapping an ocean 
of creativity, passion and energy that, as far as we can see, has no bottom and no shores. 

Jack Welch, CEO 

How would you describe GE's work environment? Open, inspiring, 
charged, fast-paced, non-bureaucratic, apolitical. We think you'll 
agree these are particularly appealing adjectives. 
We believe in being ''boundaryless." We've taken down walls that divide people, eliminated hierarchies and stripped out bureaucratic processes company-wide. And it's worked. We are a 60 billion dollar global enterprise whose extremely diverse range of businesses are number one or number two in their markets. Others look to us for management best practices and our financial results have shareholders cheering. 
We want to hear from Bachelor's and Master's degree candidates. If you are bright, creative, passionate about your work and determined to make things happen, we want you to know we find these to be particularly appealing qualities. 
We'llbe on campus this Fall. Please check with the Placement Office for more details. 
Find out more. Contact GE University Recruiting, P.O. Box 55250, Bridgeport, Cf 06610. Or visit us on the World Wide Web at: http:/ /www.careermosaic.com/ em/ge 

An Environment Without Boundaries 
An equal opportunity employer 

I\ I~~-1, 
Friday, September 29, 2995 
The Observer· TODAY page 23 
~.ooToToo-~--~----~~~~------------------------------------------·--------------------------------------------------~ 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
Ljou Ev...a. No1"1C.C 1-\.... m.... '-1 "PoS\161ciTII!.S TMEil£ A11.a. Wrn1 Tt~£ WoP." "m.~• • > 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
... If ~ou puT IN AN "s;' ~ou 
~li.-r•me:-ss'.' ... IF you Pu..­IN Ar< ·•o" you 61e... "mou~ .. 
I 

I \'1\SI-\ SC.\-\OOL WO\JLJ} 
D\5API'£AR FoRE'IER. 
R\G\-\1 No\'-1.1 
\ 

WE.LCOI"\E. Tb TI-lt 
DOGBERT SHOW. TODAY 1 TALK ABOUT GETTING GOVERN/'\ENT OFF OUR BA0\5. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~ 1. 01\EAI"\ OF A WORLD Wl-\ER't.. 
0 

6 501"\EDAY 't'OU CAN BUY 
i LIQUOR, CIGARETTES 
~ AND FIREARM5 AT A 
~ DRIVE.-THRU WINDOW 
0 

~ AND USE THEM ALL BHDRE. 
't'OU GET f-IOME. 
55 Govt. disaster agency 
57 Inn drink 
58 Excessive contraction of the pupil 
59 Boys Town figure 61 Draws out 62 --glycol (antifreeze) 63 Stucco backing 
64 Had a setback 
DOWN 
1 Liar in old car ads 
2 Release. redundantly 
3 Follows a stream's path 
4 Cattle genus 
5 Knowing about 
6 Horizontal 

Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 

DAVE KELLETI YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
... Ar< "A" ~ETS l.jou "!nll"S'S: "U" C:IE.-r!. l.jou "IYius'!. ·: .. h-s Ff.r<.,-A~TIC. !! 
l 



scorr ADAMS 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A new professional role will bring fame and fortune. Joining forces with a special group or talented indi­vidual points you in the right direc­tion. The year 1996 finds you ready to break with the past. Let loved ones know if your priorities have changed! A real estate deal will be signed next June. Let your home reflect your love for beauty and art. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: "Today" show co-host Bryant Gumbel, cowboy actor Gene Autry, actress Anita Ekberg, actress Greer Garson. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Avoid taking your pent-up frustra­tions out on people who do not deserve it. Creative work is the best therapy for those feeling glum. A late-afternoon call brings good financial news. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A lack of rest could affect your out­look on life. Heed the advice of old friends. Postpone signing contracts or agreements. Heated arguments over partnership funds should be avoided. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An early-morning business appointment starts the day on a productive note. Ignore workplace distractions and concentrate on doing a thorough job. Join a fun gathering tonight. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Adding some touches of bright color 
to your home or attire will boost
~==========~o~~========~l 
~ 
. 
.~ 
u. 

Although you are open to new ideas, a practical streak makes you shoot down pie-in-the-sky proposals. A neighbor makes a special request. Finn up travel plans without further delay. Pack lightly. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Meetings with your professional colleagues should go well. You dis­cover mutual interests that go beyond work. A fonner co-worker returns to town and asks a favor. Try to be obliging. Dine out this evening. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): New friends can quickly become close pals as old ties fade away. A lost item resurfaces under odd cir­cumstances. Dressing for success is not "selling out." Shop carefully for classic styles. Volunteer work proves enlightening. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A complex work assignment requires patience and persistence. An expert's guidance helps you get a handle on a technical matter. A new hobby reawakens your creativi­ty. Spend time with people who appreciate the arts. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Heart-to-heart chats lead to some interesting insight~. A child helps you discover the kind of person you want to be. A cozy dinner at home could set the stage for blissful romance. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be willing to compromise in a busi­ness matter. A commitment to excellence will produce the results you want. Do not be hasty when deciding on a financial strategy. Give some thought to various alter­natives. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look your best when attending an important business function. Make sure your written and verbal com­munications convey your sentiments exactly. Someone you find unap­pealing could make a pass; you are not flattered. Keep your distance. 
BASICALLY1 AN'(THING TI--\~T GE.T~ RID Of 
PE.OPLE IS OKAY WITH 
t'\E. BUT BEFORE YOU GO, BUY MY NEW BOOK .. 
your spirits. Something that has been mislaid will turn up shortly. Try not to fret about things that no one can change. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You start today with a real sense of adventure. Unfortunately, someone may throw cold water on your enthusiasm around lunch time. Take care of business before turning your · attention to outside activities. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
39 Hurried up 47 Friends 
Seallo~ed Potatoes Sugru:. Snap Peas 
41 Office 48 Having a employee model's 43 Beat body 44 One of the Five 52 Menotti Nations character 
··::;~{j :''~"::;:+A+?::~ 
45 Exhale 56 Author Seton 
$;Unt Mary's. 
46 Art museum 60 Monte Rosa. rejects? e.g. 
Catfish Chicken Stir Fry
Get answers to any three clues 
: Parsley Potatoes 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
·'·1:tji~~\~V~i ~ :·:: 
i:'l)p .INTEREST 
The Good Shepherd Volunteers will have representatives focusing on post-graduate servjce opportunities with family and youth services in the Ne:w York area today from 10:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The songs of Henri Duparc (1848-1933) will be performed by Rev. Patrick Maloney C.S.C., tenor, and Katherine Glaser, piano, at 2:00p.m. this Sunday in the Annenherg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art. Admission is free. 
Freshman or sophomore Notre Dame students interested in working with the student athletic trainer program please contact the Notre Dame sports medi­cine !iepartment at 631·7100. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North South Mexican Beef Pizza Shrimp Poppers Pork Fried Rice Grilled Reuben 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 747. e.g. 9 Hotel posting 14 Basketball game 15 Follower of Santa 
16 Pant waist inserts 17 "1. Robot" 
author 18 It can have pluses or minuses 19 Granada 
grizzlies 20 Twinkle-toed 21 Baking-­~3 One past due 24 More costly 
-
• 
• 
25 Ultimate buyers 27 Perfect 29 Converge (on) 31 Feel sick 32 Tart 34 Early biblical 
commentary 40 Aurora's 
counterpart 42 Mal de mer 43 Fabric design 49 Southwestern 
sights 50 "Strange Interlude" playwright 51 Actress 
Gardner 53 Boss: Abbr. 54 Courage 

beam 7 Rerun of a 
telecast a Inlaid piece 9 More optimistic 
10 Kind of cracker 
11 Sound quality 
12 Where 
professeurs profess 
13 People of some account 
15 Troubadour's instrument 
22 Aligned, with 
"in~~ 
26 "Sprechen -­Deutsch?" 28 Lip 30 Like a lot of worry 33Aswell 35 Flood control 36 Is contrite 37 Pacifies 38 Alaskan transport 
-· 

I I I I I' 
.-~ 
SPORTS 

The Obseover/Brent Tadsen 
Notre Dame's outside hitters: Angie Harris (left) and Jenny Birkner (right) The pair, along with Jaimie Lee, account for the majority of Notre 
Dame's offensive firepower. 

Conference schedule a mere molehill in light of national competition 
-
By MIKE DAY 
Spons Writer 
Sometimes, in order to take . a step .fprw~d. one must take a step backwards. 
A case in point was last Friday when the No. 17 Texas Longhorn volleyball team came into town and delivered a blow that still lingers with the Irish. The Longhorns handed Notre Dame their first loss of the season. 
However, in the week since that forgettable moment, the Irish have played like a team possessed. Colorado, owners of a 7-1 record and the No. 15 ranking, were completely overmatched by Notre Dame last weekend. The Buffaloes could not even manage to win one game in the two matches against the pumped-up Irish. 
It only got worse for DePaul on Tuesday night. The Blue Demons, who happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time, were ousted in a record time of 40 minutes, scoring just five points in the 15-2, 15-1, 15-2 defeat. 
"I would defmitely say it (the Texas loss) was a good learn­ing experience," said head coach Debbie Brown. "It helped us see what things we need to work on to be success­ful. It's never good to lose, but an experience like that can help the team in the future." 
Added sophomore outside hitter Jaimie Lee, "We learned a lot against Texas. We now knows what it takes to beat a team like them. We have to fmish games to 15 and not let teams climb back when they are down." 

Big East rivals Georgetown and Villanova are slated to be Notre Dame's next victims. 
The Irish travel to Washing­ton D.C. on Saturday to take on the Hoyas in the first conference game of the sea­son. Georgetown has been a bit of a dilemma so far this year. The Hoyas have com­piled an impressive 13-5 record, but they lost their opener to DePaul. 
Leading the way for George­town are sophomore setter Katy Youngblood and fresh-
see BIG EAST I page 17 
Friday, September 29, 1995 
• MEl'S SocCER 
Irish get back on track with 5-0 victory 
By DYLAN BARMMER Spons Writer 
The bleeding has stopped. 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team put an end to a four game losing skid, their longest in five seasons, with a convinc­ing 5-0 win over the Lions of Loyola Marymount. The win moved the Irish to 4-4 on the year, and came at a crucial time for the young Irish squad, which has been beset with in­juries of late . 
"I think this was a huge win for us," said Irish captain Tony Capasso, who had two goals and an assist on the night. "This game was important for us in terms of getting back the momentum which we had lost over the past few weeks." 
The Irish hope that this mo­mentum will carry them into their next several games, as they seek to regain the form they showcased during the first 3 games of the season. The Irish had climbed to #6 in the ISAA poll before a rash of in­juries and a tough schedule helped drop them to 3-4 com­ing into last night's game. 
Capasso got the Irish started early with the customary early Notre Dame goal, when he scored on a direct kick just 
1:43 into the game. 
After taking the lead, the Irish continued to pressure the Lions, but were unable to net a second goal in the first half. 
The Irish continued to attack in the second half of the game, 
see MEN I page18 

• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Pressure's on Scharff-less defense 
By DAVE TREACY ing no scores against them. The Irish have not Spons Writer been defeated in their last 34 regular-season contests, and have set a school record for con­
Emotions will run high this weekend in the secutive shut-outs. highly anticipated match-up between Ohio State With the injury of senior sweeper Ashley and Notre Dame. Scharff, the defense has lost a key starter for the 
Cincinnatti will be a pretty good game, too. weekend. For other teams, the loss of a starter 
The women's soccer program is heading to might be a problem. Not so for the Irish. Ohio this weekend, facing the Bearcats of Stepping in to replace Scharff is freshman phe­Gi.ncinnatti this afternoon and Ohio State on nom Shannon Boxx. Boxx played in place of Sunday. Interestingly enough, the first of the two Scharff last weekend against Seton Hall, and rose
.. 
games is the more competitive match-up. to the challenge, scoring a goal in the contest 
"Cincinnatti was a tournament team last year," with a header assisted by Cindy Daws and Holly recalled Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. Manthei. "They've been in and out of the top twenty this "Losing Ashley is really only a minor setback. season." She's our anchor and we need her on the field, 
A tough team at home, Cincinnatti has been but Shannon has done and will do a great job," known to provide many problems for visitors. predicted Kate Fisher, another defensive main­They also have some talent in the middle. stay. 
"Paulette Angelechia is a very strong player, a "Last week, Ashley took control, and was very good midfielder. They're a solid team, especially confident. Her confidence helped our play,"
• in the midfield," Petrucelli added. Fisher added. 
Of course, the same could be said about the Incidentally, Fisher is from Cincinnatti, and will Irish. They have proven to be a team without a weakness, dominating all opponents and allow-
see IRISH I page 17 


The Obseover!Brent Tadsen With Ashley Scharff's abscence, Kate Sobrero will be looked upon to carry more of the load for the Irish defense. 
Football Women's Soccer 
• SMG Volleyball victorious 
at Ohio State 

at Cincinnati September 29, 7 p.m. September 30, 2:30 EST see page 22at Ohio State October I, 2 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Volleyball Cross Country • Women's Interhall football action 

at Georgetown September 30, 3 p.m. 

Notre Dame Invitational October 6 ' at Villanova October 1, 2 p.m. 
at a 
see page 20

·-~·.' . ·..• ..· ... _.·_ :_· __·.·.;! 
SMCSports
' .· .. . ' " " 
Men's Soccer • Baseball races tighten

Volleyball at Nonh Central Sept. 30 ' . ' ~ . at Northwestern October 1, 2 p.m. 
. .· =·· . ,.. . . .. ! Soccer vs. St. Ambrose Sept. 30, 2 p.m. 
see page 15

GLANCE
• • '-•· ·'---"' -·-.-: 'll, .. -··no•> 





Friday, September 22, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page2 
IRISH ON THE OfFENSIVE••• 
Irish need to overcome hostile atmosphere 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The "Game of the Century" against Florida State in 1993 will have been the last time Notre Dame has played in a game with such anticipation surrounding it. 
Most of the Irish, including quarterback Ron Powlus, didn't play in that Irish victory. How will this young Irish offense h_andle t~e; pressure? . Will Powlus' eyes be glued to receiv­er Derrick Mayes again? 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz understands the situation fac­ing his team. 
"The crowd is going to be so loud and the environment very hostile. I would probably com­pare it to the Miami environ­ment in 1989, which I definitely underestimated there." 
He won't underestimate the environment this time and the Irish will be ready. 
The Irish. offense has been dominant recently. Ron Powlus is fmally playing with the poise and skill that people thought he possessed. Since the Northwestern game he has con­nected on 65 percent of his passes for 725 yards and 6 touchdowns. 

A main reason for his success is the resurgence of the offen­sive line. They have held teams to only three sacks over the past three games, while con­trolling the trenches to ignite the running attack of Randy Kinder and freshman Autry Denson. 
Kinder is on pace for a 1200 yard season after gaining 449 yards on a 6.2 yards per carry average. Presently he ranks fifth all-time among Notre Dame running backs with nine games of at least 100 yards. 
This weekend the offensive line will face its toughest chal­lenge. Ohio St. enters the game with arguably the best tandem of defensive ends in the country in juniors Matt Finkes and Mike Vrabel. Both were first team AU-Big Ten last season. Finkes led the Buckeyes' defensive line with 71 tackles, while Vrabel established a school single-sea­son record with 12 sacks. Both are on pace to break the Buckeye career sack record of 
27.5 by the end of their season year. 
Behind the defensive line the Buckeyes are talented, but in­experienced. They lost three starting defensive backs and two star linebackers, Lorenzo Styles and Craig Powell. Linebacker Greg Bellisari has filled in nicely at the middle linebacker position for the Buckeyes and leads the team with 26 tackles. 
In the defensive backfield the Buckeyes are led by Thorpe Award candidate Shawn Springs. He leds the team with two interceptions, and ran a 
The Observer/Kevin Kleu 

kickoff back 97 yards for a Junior Randy Kinder is on pace to break Allen Pinkett's career 100 yard touchdown. games record of 21. 
BUCKEYES ON THE OFFENSIVE • •• 
Balanced offense poses problems for Irish 

By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Last season it was Penn State, this year Ohio State. Once again, the Big Ten can claim the nation's most dangerous offense. 
Senior quarterback Bobby Hoying has keyed a fast start for the Buckeye offense. In three games, two against top 25 teams, he has connected on 68 percent of this passes for 757 yards and eight touchdowns. 
Much of his success has come from the emergence of Terry Glenn as a game breaking receiver. Glenn has used his amazing speed and sure hands to grab 19 receptions for 449 yards. He is among the top in the collegiate ranks with 23.6 yards per reception. 
"We want to get the ball to our receivers eight-to-ten yards down the field and then let them run with it," Ohio State head coach John Cooper explained. 
Balancing out the passing attack is Heisman candi­date running back Eddie George. After rushing for 1477 yards last season. he is off to another fast start this season with 448 yards in only three games. 
Paving the way for George is a Buckeye offensive line 
In the 
By Thomas Schlidt 
Trenches 
led by sophomore phenom Orlando Pace. At 6-6 320 pounds, Pace was the Big Ten's freshman of the year last year after he started every game at tackle. 
"I worry about how we stand up in front of them," Irish head coach Lou Holtz said. "Then I worry about tackling George in the secondary. and how are you going to cover Glenn?" 
Defensively the Irish are anything but great, yet they get the job done when needed. 
The defensive line will be drastically undersized compared to the Buckeye offensive line. Ohio State averages 6-4 297 pounds to the Irish's 6-2 267. Players like 240 pound Corey Bennett will need to use their speed and quickness to get around that offensive line, and the inside linebackers Lyron Cobbins and Kinnon Tatum will need to fill in the holes, to stop the run. Else George will be running all day. 
The Irish secondary will need a repeat performance of the Texas game. Glenn will eventually burn them, so Allen Rossum, Shawn Wooden, LaRon Moore and Brian Magee will need to come up with some key inter­ceptions. The Irish will be missing nickel back Jarvis Edison who is out with an injury. 
D
espite the stars at the skill positions for Notre Dame and Ohio State, this game will be won in the trenches. 
6-6 320 pound sophomore tackle Orlando Pace leads a towering Buckeye offensive line that will, on average, outweigh the Irish front three by over 30 pounds. Irish defensive end Corey Bennett will give up 80 pounds when he battles Pace. The Irish will need to utilize 
The Observer/Kevin Klau 
their speed and quickness if they expect to establish any pass rush or neutralize the Buckeye ground game. 
While the Irish offensive line has been strong recently. they may have lost their cohesiveness when tackle Mike Doughty went down with an ankle injury. Freshman Mike Rosenthal is slated to make his first start against the best tan­dem of defensive ends in the coun­try in juniors Mike Vradel and Matt Finkes. Both are on their 
way to breaking the Buckeye Photo oourteey oiOhlo State Sporta Information 
Buckeye defensive end Matt Finkes. 
career sack record. 
E=reshman .tackle Mike Rosenthal. 

-~-~ ·----­
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, Septmber 22, 1995 
Photo courtesy of Ohio State Sports Information 
Y
ou can tell a lot That might be a pretty about someone by cool award, but George what they study, may have his eyes on a especially their likes slightly more presti­and dislikes. Eddie gious honor, like the George is a case in Heisman Trophy. point. "In Eddie George, Ohio State's senior they maybe have the tailback majors in best back in the coun­Landscape Architecture, try," Irish coach Lou so accordingly he enjoys Holtz appraised. spending his free time This week's nationally surveying open 
televised game areas of green. against lie's pretty America's most good at it. recognizble team As a matter may be a make of fact, he cov· or break game. ered enough At 6-foot-3, 230 grass last sea­pounds, he has .son to give him great size for a the highest George tailback , but his total since forte is speed. Buckeye Keith Byars. A state track champi­This season, the on in high school, Philadelphia native has George hits the corner been just as eager to quicker than anyone in study various types of the country. That may surfaces. spell trouble for an Irish To open the season, secondary which lacks he got a feel for the art­great speed. ficial turf of the In addition, his formi­Meadowlands by rush­dable offensive line may ing for over one hun­pose problems for Notre dred yards for the ninth Dame. time in thirteen games "I worry whether we against Boston College. can stand up front, and Next, it was back to then I worry about tack­the familar turf of Ohio ling George in the sec­Stadium, where he ondary; he's going to found the Prescription get some(big runs)." Athletic Turf much to said Holtz. his liking. He traversed Just how many may 219 yards of it on 36 very well determine the carries in OSU's 30-20 outcome of the colossal victory over the Huskies clash in Columbus. of Washington. In ad­Count on George to ·dition, ·he· tallied two· get his hundred yards. touchdowns and was It's his hobby. named ABC's Player of the Game. --TIM SHERMAN 
Beefy and brash, .mm.ovs rt the ball. Notre Dame)s Iine ha.S a:massed n'''"' ··~flU yardage games so farj howtvel'. 
Ol)efensJve~,&A.II·~ ~~~,....l·· 
·This.·is ·ntita••4ifij~~~···.all. has been ~ti9n~~ ~eryopeside. Ohio State has the · . 
~~s~~~·....·.10<·~~..., ·~,.,..,.,.,.,.-.,~;•• 
Special teams have come throJlgh . the kicking game still struggles. OSU r.•e.~tut·nec.t..a kickofffor a TD earlier rh~ year~-.[Look
• 

··~ 
Lou Holtz maldng the trip and. his being ~ble to see trOJl.l 
(dp.John ~per never IDil$ to 
Aclose.call~.but theBuckey~s home field. Butlook for an . 
B
reaking school Dan "Big Daddy" records is always Wilkinson come to 
something to be mind. Not bad compa­proud of. It tells you ny. that you may very well This season, Vrabel is 
be the best to play at off to a bit of slow start. your particular position But when you consider in school history. that start consists of 
However, in certain two sacks and three circumstances. a feat tackles for losses in may not be noticed, or three games, you know even deserved to be the guy can play. 
noticed. For Simply, he's a example, 
playmaker. breaking the Complicating 
school record this for the Irish 
for most PAT's ·is Vrable's line­attempted is mate, Matt not awe-inspir­Finkes. ing. Finkes, him­
There are self is hard to those marks handle, prevent­
Vrabel
that are quite ing the Irish from impressive, especially focusing on Vrabel. when you consider the The 6-foot-4, 255 quality of the program pound Vrabel garnered 
and players who pre­honorable mention All­ceded you. American recognition 
Taking this into last season and first account, the fact that team all Big Ten. Ohio State junior Matt Another concern for Vrabel set the all-time the Irish should be mark for both sacks Vrabels' ability to knock 
(12) and tackles-for­passes down at the line losses (20) in a single of the scrimmage. Last season last year is quite season, he did such on 
notable. four occasions. With the 
Not only is the fact tendency of the Irish that he was a sopho­offensive line to favor a more when he accom­collapsible type pocket, plished the feat rather he could wreak havoc. 
eye-opening, the pro­After just two season, gram in which he did it he already ranks third is even more telling. on the all-time OSU 
Consider Ohio State's sack list. It will be the tradition. Further, just job of Joe Moore's boys think of a few of the to make sure he stays 
players who Vrabel there following tomor­topped in 1994. Names row's contest. such as Chris Spielman, Alonzo Spellman and --TIM SHERMAN 

----~-------------~--------------------­
BUCKEYES  
3  4  Tot  PASSING  Comp  Att  Pet  Yda  TD  lnt  Lg  FIELD GOALS  D-29  30-39  40-49  511+  Tot  
38  20  122  B. Hoying  50  76  65.8  757 8  3  75  Jo. Jackson  3-3  1-1  o-o  0.{)  4-4  
3  13  40  S. Jackson  9  12  75.0  141  1  0  31  
PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
Opp  RECEIVING  Rec  Yda  Avg  TD  Lg  Bartholomew  7  34.4  0  53  
46  Glenn  19  449  23.8  5  75  
965  Dudley  7  76  10.9  1  18  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TD  Lg  
321.7  Stanley  6  84  14.0  2  25  Springs  5  30.4  1  97  
178  George  6  67  11.2  0  16  Glenn  3  19.7  0  29  
6.6  Pearson  4  51  12.8  0  31  
358  Tillman  4  45  11.3  0  18  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TD  Lg  
119.3  Miller  4  41  10.3  0  13  Glenn  5  5.6  ·0  16  
88  Sualua  3  33  11.0  2  22  
607  Je. Jackson  3  27  9.0  0  15  INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yds  TO  
202.3  Houser  3  22  7.3  0  10  Springs  2  0  0  
52  Moore  1  22  0  
90  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rae  Ret  Tot  Avg  Miller  1  18  0  
8  Glenn  17  449  77  543  181.0  Howard  1  15  0  
9/4  George  443  67  0  510  170.0  
18-168  Springs  0  0  0  152  50.7  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sec  
10.35  Pearson  62  51  0  113  37.7  Belli sari  15  11  26  0  0  0  0  
28.6  Je. Jackson  64  27  0  91  30.3  Miller  7  16  23  0  0  0  0  
2-5  Springs  12  7  19  0  0  1  0  
SCORING  TD  2XP  1XP  FG  Sel  Pta  Kelly  4  10  14  1  1  1  0  
Avg  TD  Lg  Glenn  5  0  0-0  0  0  32  Fickell  6  6  12  0  0  0  
5.8  4  51  George  4  0  0-0  0  0  24  K. Johnson  4  8  12  1  0  0  
3.6  0  26  Je. Jackson  0  0  12-15  4  0  24  Vmbel  6  5  11  0  1  2  
3.3  0  12  Stanley  2  0  0.{)  0  0  12  Finkes  8  3  0  0  0  
7.0  0  15  Sualua  2  0  0.{)  0  0  12  Howard  7  4  0  0  0  
27.0  0  27  Dudley  1  0  0.{)  0  0  8  Winfield  6  4  0  0  0  
2.4  0  7  Shavers  1  0  0.{)  0  0  6  Shavers  3  4  0  0  0  
17.0  0  17  Springs  1  0  0.{)  0  0  6  Gwinn  2  0  0  0  
• • •  
JOHN COOPER  
Eighth season at Ohio State  
Career Record: 139-66-6  
Against Opponent: 0-0  
Highlights: Has the best overall record  
in the Big Ten over the past three years,  
but has yet to guide the Buckeyes to the  
Rose Bowl. At Arizona State was voted  
National Coach of the Year in 1986.  


FULLBACK 37-Sualua
-. 
~ 
ll! 
• " 

1 2 30 34 14 10 
osu 
First downs 81 
Total yards 1575 Total yards per game 525.0 Total offensive plays 238 Avg. yards per play 5.4 
Rushing yards 658 Rushing yards per game 219.3 Rushing plays 147 
Passing yards 917 Passing yards per game 305.7 

Passes completed  61  
Passes attempted  91  
Passes Intercepted  3  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  5/3  
Penalties-Penalty yards  14-128  
Third down conversions  26-43  
Percentage  60.5  
Fourth down conversions  3-8  
Ydii/Gm  No  Yda  
147.7  77  443  
21.3  18  84  
20.7  19  62  
11.7  5  35  
.27.0  1  27  
5.7  7  17  
5.7  1  17  
II  • •  
No.Nerne  Poa.  HL  WL  YR  
1  DeWayne Carter  WR  6-1  192 SA  
2  Ty Howard  CB  5-9  181  SA  
3  Dimitrlous Stanley  WR  5-10  181  JR  
4  Josh Jackson  K  5-11  173 SA  
5  Dan Colson  s  8-0  190 SA  
6  Jimmy Redmond  WR  8.{)  165  FA  
7  Joe Gennaine  QB  6-2  196 so  
8  Stanley Jackson  QB  8-1  203  JA  
9  Steve Baird  DB  6-1  190 so  
10 Tom Hoying  QB  6-4  221  JA  
1 1 Antoine Winfield  DB  5-9  178  FA  
12 Buster Tillman  WR  6-1  188 SA  
13 Damon Moore  s  5-11  195 so  
14 Bobby Hoying  QB  6-4  223  SA  
15 Dee Miller  WR  8-1  190 so  
16 Andre Hatcher  RB  5-10  196  JR  
17 Percy King  DB  6-4  200  FA  
18 Che Bryant  s  6-1  160 so  
19 Heath Knisley  s  6-3  180 SA  
20 Central McCielllon  CB  5-11  180 so  
21  Charlie Sanders  RB  5-9  215  FA  
22 Colonel Sanders  CHK  5-5  110 SA  
23 Matt Keller  RB  8-0  200  FA  
24 Shawn Sptings  CB  8.{)  185  JR  
25 Jennon Jackson  RB  5-11  198 so  
26 Anthony Gwinn  s  8-0  200  JA  
27 Eddie George  AB  6-3  227  SA  
27 Curious George  APE  3.{)  45  SA  
28JasonLouls  s  6-1  192  SA  
29 Pepe Pearson  RB  5-10  193 so  
29 Pepe lePew  SK  1-6  45  FA  
30 Greg Balllsari  LB  6-1  230  JR  
32 Oble Stillwell  LB  6-1  220  SA  
33 Joe Montgomery  RB  5-11  225 so  
34 Rob Kelly  s  6-2  200  SA  
35 Jerry Rudzinski  LB  6-1  220 so  
36 Randy Homa  LB  6-2  250  FA  
37 Nicky Sualua  RB  5-11  245  JR  
38 MlkeMallatt  K  6-3  205  JR  
39 Matt Calhoun  RB  6.{)  237  SA  
41  Patrick Doyle  K  8-0  185 so  
41  Brent Bartholomew  p  6-2  198  FA  
42 Kevin Griffin  CB  5-10  183 so  
43 Ryan Miller  LB  6-2  220 SA  
44 Josh Jenkins  RB  6-1  220  SR  
44 Chris Klr1<  LB  6-3  235  FA  
45 James T. Kir1<  CAP  6.{)  180 SA  
46 MarcWIIIis  s  6-3  215  JR  
48 Matt LaVrar  LB  6-3  220 SA  
50 Eric Gohlstin  OT  6-3  295 so  
51  Roedell Duprea  LB  6-3  240 so  
52 Kevin Johnson  LB  6-2  220  JR  
53 Darren Hestar  LB  6-1  230  FA  
54 Brian Stoughton  DE,  6-2  240  SA  
55 Will Connery  LB  6-1  240  SA  
56 Rob Murphy  OL  6-5  252  FA  
57 LaShun Daniels  OG  6-2  285  SA  
58 James Ross  DE  6-3  230  JR  
59 Joe Ross  esc  5-11  175  JR  
60 Ray Harr18  OG  6-3  320  JR  
81  MattBaker  LB  6-1  220 so  
62 Shane Ctar1<  NG  6-2  270 SA  
62 Jason Kozar  c  8-0  270 so  
63 Jason Cook  LB  6-2  220  SA  
85 Juan Porter  c  6-4  285  SA  
66 Dan Gibbons  NG  6-4  300 so  
67 Brooks Bums  OT  6-6  295 so  
68 Winfield Garnett  DT  6-6  310 so  
89 Dave Winfield  DH  6-4  210  SA  
70 Matt Bonhaus  DT  6-5  285  SA  
72 Jamie Sumner  OG  6-4  290  SA  
7 4 Greg Kuszmaul  OG  6-4  295  SA  
75 Oriando Pace  OT  6-6  320 so  
75 Pace Picante  MLD  6.{)  220  FA  
76 Dean Kreuzer  c  6-2  240  SA  
76 ErlcSmtth  OL  6-5  300  FA  
78 Andrew EHord  OL  6-4  277  FA  
79 Larry Waldon  OT  6-6  330  JR  
80 Rickey Dudley  TE  6-7  240  SA  
81  Matt Jacobs  WR  6-1  200  SA  
83 Terry Glenn  WR  5-11  185 SA  
84 Steve Wisniewski  TE  6-5  230  FA  
85 John Lumpkin  TE  6-9  260 so  
87 Robbie Davis  WR  6.{)  184 SA  
88 Bob Houser  TE  6-4  240  JR  
89 Doogie Howser  MD  5-8  140  FA  
91  Jell Wilson  DE  6-3  250 so  
92 Matt Flnkes  DE  6-2  258  JR  
93 Rick Huntzinger  DE  6-3  242  SA  
84 Mike Vrabel  DE  6-4  255  JR  
95 Jim Ball  DE  6-5  251  JR  
95 Ring Yurbell  DE  6-4  220  SA  
96 Tony Eisenhart!  DT  6-7  220  FA  
97 John Day  DE  6-3  245  JR  
97 Brian Heinen  WR  6-2  200  JA  
98 Marcus Spriggs  NG  6-4  295 so  
98 Alonzo Shavers  WR  6-0  170 SA  
99 Luke Flckell  NG  6-4  260 SA  

The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 29, 1995 
FIGHTING IRISH
Sf 
• •••  
1  2  3  4  Tot  PASSING  Camp  All  Pet  Yda  TO  lnt  Lg  FIELD GOALS  Tot  
17  52  29  48  148  Powlus  63  97  64.9  900 6  3  53  Kopka  4-7  
21  12  17  22  72  
RECEIVING  Rec  Yda  Avg  TD  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
NO  Opp  Mayes  24  381  15.9  2  53  H. Smith  13  38.8  0  58  
Flrstdowna  102  70  Edwards  14  172  12.3  1  30  Palumbo  1  16.0  0  16  
Total yards  1877  1325  Kinder  7  71  10.1  1  30  
Total.y~rd' per game Total offensive playa  469.3 307  331.3 263  Mosley Wallace  6 4  135 52  22.5 13.0  1 0  51 35  KICKOFF RETURNS Mosley  No 5  Avg 32.4  TO 0  Lg 48  
Avg. yards par play  6.1  5.0  Chryplewlcz  4  42  10.5  0  19  Farmer  2  21.0  0  26  
Rushlna yards  977  583  Farmer  2  23  11.5  0  17  Stafford  2  12.5  0  18  
Rushing yards par game  244  146  
Rushing playa Paaalng yards  210 900  149 742  ALL-PURPOSE Kinder  Rush 449  Rec 71  Rat 0  Tot 525  Avg 131.3  PUNT RETURNS Mosley  No 2  Avg 38.5  TO 1  Lg 64  
Passing yards par game  225  186  Mayea  5  381  0  386  96.5  Sollmann  7  6.1  0  24  
Passes completed  83  55  Mosley  3  135  239  377  94.3  
Paasea attempted  97  114  Edwards  155  172  0  327  81.8  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
Passes Intercepted  3  7  Farmer  148  23  42  213  71.0  Wooden  3  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  10/3  8/6  Danson  171  9  14  194  48.5  Monahan, Magee, Moore, Rosaum  1  
Penantes-Penany yards  22-194  23-196  Thome  34  0  0  34  17.0  
Third down conversions  24-55  21-58  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
Percentage  44  38  SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pta  Cobbins  31  12  43  0  0  1  0.0  
Fourth down conversions  4-8  3-4  Edwards  5  1  0-0  0  0  32  Berry  19  10  29  1  0  2  0.0  
Kinder  5  0  0-0  0  0  30  Moore  17  7  24  0  1  2  0.0  
Yda/Gm  No  Yda  Avg  TO  Lg  Kopka  0  0  18-17  4  0  28  Magee  14  8  22  1  0  3  0.0  
112.3  72  449  6.2  4  52  Mayes  2  0-0  0  0  12  Grasmanis  10  21  0  2  1  3.0  
49.3  33  148  4.5  22  Mosley  2  0-0  0  0  12  Tatum  10  21  0  0  1  0.5  
42.8  31  171  5.5  19  Rosaum  1  0-0  0  0  8  Bennett  7  18  0  0  0  0.0  
38.8  33  155  4.7  27  Denson  1  o-o  0  0  6  Wynn  4  17  1  0  0  1.5  
17.0  2  34  17.0  30  Edison  1  0-0  0  0  6  Wooden  4  16  0  0  1  0.0  
7.0  8  28  3.5  11  1  0-0  0  0  8  Minor  5  14  0  0  0  3.0  
3.7  2  11  5.5  7  1  0-0  0  0  6  Rosaum  4  13  0  0  0  0.0  
• • •  
Poe.  Hl  .WI.  
LOU HOLTZ  
Derrick Mayes  WR  6-1  204  SA  
Kinnon Tatum  LB  6-0  216  JR  
Tenth season at Notre Dame.  Ron Powlua Kory Minor  QB LB  6-2 6-2  217 225  JR FA  
Career Record: 203-90-7  5 6  Emmett Mosley Lyron Cobbins  WR LB  5-9 6-0  180 241  JR JR  
Against Ohio State: 0-2 Highlights: Reached 200-win milestone against Purdue. Guided the Irish to a National Championship in 1988 and runner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993.  7 9 1 0 11 12 12 13 13 14 15 16  Jarloua Jackson LaRon Moore Mike Perona TomKrug Scott Cengle Mario Strayhorn Bert Berry John Bishop Ivory Covington Allen Rosaum Jerry Maloney  QB S QB QB K DB LB CB CB CB K  6-2 5-9 6-1 8-4 5-9 6-2 6-3 5-11 5-9 5-7 5-11  215 190 190 206 179 205 230 170 161 176 174  FA SA JR JR SO FA JR JR SO SO JR  
17  Brian Magee  S  5-10  204  SA  
17  Marl< McKenna  QB  5-11  182  JR  
18  Clkal Champion  WR  5-10  191  JR  
19  Marcus Thome  RB  6-0  224  SA  
20  Kevin Kopka  K  5-8  175  FA  
21  Shannon Stephana  RB  5-10  175  FA  
22  Shawn Wooden  CB  5-11  188  SA  
I  I  I  23  Bill Gibbs  S  5-10  179  JR  
23  Autry Denson  RB  5-10  175  FA  
BOB DAVIE  DAVE ROBERTS  24 25  TyGoode Randy Kinder  CB RB  5-11 6-1  183 206  SO JR  
26  Marl< Monahan  CB  5-11  184  SA  
26  Chris McCarthy  K  5-11  194  SO  
The 40 year-old defen­ The Irish offensive  27 28  Bobble Howard Ken Berry  LB RB  5-11 6-0  210 214  FA SO  
sive coordinator will  coordinator will be  29 29  Ronl Enlate A' Jan I Sanders  DB DB  6-0 5-11  180 175  JR FA  
be making the defen­ in contact with Holtz  30 31  Jarvis Edison Robert Farmer  s RB  8-4 5-10  213 208  so JR  
sive calls from the  in the press box over  32 33  Clement Stokes John Mclaughlin  RB LB  6-0 8-4  203 222  SO SO  
field.  Davie, in his  a headset. A cre­ 34 35  Jamie Spencer Scott Palumbo  RB P  6-1 5-11  245 187  FA SA  
second year at ND,  ative offensive mind,  35 36  Robert Phelps Chlrs Wachtel  CB P  6-0 5-11  185 211  JR JR  
was the architect of  Roberts also excels  37 38  Jeff Kramer Slm Stokes  LB CB  6-2 6-0  218 185  SO JR  
Texas A&M's famous  in recruiting. He  39 40  Benny Guilbeaux Kevin Carretta  DB TE  8-4 6-1  210 230  FA SA  
"Wrecking Crew"  coached NE La. until  41 42  Joe Babey Mike Fraacogna  LB WR  6-1 5-8  227 184  SO SA  
defense.  1993.  43 44  Bill Wagasy Marc Edwards  LB RB  6-3 6-0  224 227  SA JR  
45  Hunter Sm~h  P  6-3  195  FA  
46  James Jackson  RB  5-10  205  FA  
Bill Mitoulas  LB  6-1  217  SO  
Renaldo Wynn  DE  6-3  280  SA  
Joe Thomas  LB  6-3  205  FA  
Alex Mueller  OL  6-8  280  FA  
Lamont Bryant  DE  8-4  235  FA  
Luke Patltgout  OG  6-8  282  SO  
ShaKen Jorden  LB  8-4  230  FA  
Kurt Belisle  LB  6-2  220  SO  
Riel< Kaczenskl  C  8-4  283  JR  
Mike Burgdorf  TE  6-0  205  JR  
Matthew Kunz  s  6-0  209  so  
Sean Rogers  OT  5-10  280  JR  
Mike McCullough  NG  6-2  298  SA  
Matt Griesbach  OG  6-0  283  SO  
FULLBACK 4Hdwanll  Jeff Kilburg John Wagner  OG OL  8-4 6-8  278 300  JR FA  
David Quist  NG  6-8  281  SA  
,.~  Tim Ridder Jerry Wlsne  OL OL  6-7 6-7  280 282  FA FA  
' 72  Ryan Leahy  00  8-4  288  SA  
73  Mike Doughty  OT  6-7  291  JR  
75  Chris Clevenger  OT  6-8  285  JR  
Jeremy Akers  00  6-5  288  SA  
Dusty Zeigler  C  6-8  292  SA  
RIGHT GUARD 72-Ltahy511-Pelllgout  Jon Splcl<elmler Mike Rosenthal Malcolm Johnson  c OL WR  6-2 6-7 8-4  285 290 206  so FA SO  
Chariea Stafford  WR  5-9  187  SA  
Bobby Brown  WR  6-3  175  FA  
Scott Sotlmann  WR  5-8  180  JR  
Dan McConnell  WR  5-8  181  SA  
Antwon Jones  DL  8-4  237  FA  
Jimmy Friday  LB  6-3  230  FA  
Leon Wallace  TE  6-3  285  SA  
Mike Denvtr  TE  6-3  231  JR  
John Ceraaanl  TE  8-4  245  FA  
Ben Fooa  DE  8-4  250  SA  
DameiiSmlth  DE  6-5  2n  JR  
Paul Grasmanls  NG  6-2  279  SA  
Justin Orr  WR  8-0  190  JR  
Corey Bennett  DE  6-1  228  SO  
Corey Radder  LB  6-1  220  SO  
Pete Chryplewlcz  TE  6-5  257  SO  
Cliff Stroud  DE  6-3  285  SA  


-

~-----~------~------------------~ 
Friday, September 29, 1995 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 

page6 "Andy had just completed a where I would like to be. I need 
pass, and I just ran it in," he the seniors to help stress the said. "It wasn't the greatest run importance of this game to the continued from page 1 since sliced bread or anything. younger players." 
But I scored, and that's all that It's true that this is a big fairy tale. matters." game, the biggest for Ohio It's the stories that keep them Pilney was the hero of the State. T-shirts and bumper engrossed ·in the mystical game with a touchdown pass, a stickers have been on the mar­
matchup. caused fumble that gave Notre ket since last year. They've 
"While I was walking off the Dame the ball with a minute to been talking about it for a field after the game, some guy play, and a 30-yard run that set decade, when they first discov­came up to me and handed me up the winning score. ered Notre Dame was on the a ten dollar bill," fullback and "Catholics Go Home" signs schedule. Class of '37 graduate Steve quickly dissipated when the Perhaps it is the biggest game Miller said. "That was a lot of game came to an end. But they of the year for Notre Dame, but money back then." didn't bother the players, who you really wouldn't be able to 
Notre Dame's quarterback, weren't paying attention any­tell by listening to the players. Andy Pilney, remembers not be­how. "We get everybody's biggest ing able to see the end of the "We never saw any of that," game," receiver Derrick Mayes game. Miller said. "Coach (Elmer) said. "A lot of teams base their 
"I was being carried off in a Layden kept us away from all of whole season on their game stretcher," he said. "I had hurt it. We stayed at a seminary, with us." my left knee just a couple of went over to the field and "It's going to be a drag-em­plays before, and I was trying to played. That's it." out, punch-it-in type of football 
see, but I was in the tunnel Ironically, the Irish returned game," quarterback Ron when he caught the pass. home the following week with Powlus said. "But we have a lot "The trainer told me we won. national championship hopes more games to win. Ohio State Then I passed out from the riding high, but they fell to is just our opponent this week." pain." Northwestern, 14-7. "It is not just another game The 15-yard pass, from Bill "They were good back then, around here, regardless of what "The Bard" Shakespeare to though," Miller contested. people might tell you," Wayne Millner gave the Irish an Buckeyes head coach John 18-13lead with just seconds re­Irish head coach Lou Holtz Cooper said. "Some Notre Dame ~aining t~ play. Shakepeare watched the game films players were quoted as saying had entered the game just two from the 1935 game. He it's just another game for them. 
Rivalry 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Archives
them be

plays beforehand, and nearly found to quite I hope it's not another game for Irish quarterback Andy Pilney could not see the final touchdown threw an interception on his impressive. our players. It's not another because he was being carted off with a 'bum' knee, as he put it. first attempt. The ball hit "I'm a history fanatic," he game for me, I can tell you that Buckeye defender Dick Beltz in said. "It's really interesting if right now." tige of the Big Ten. Teams that Archie Griffith. Rockne vs. the hands, but fell harmlessly you study it. The irony of it was About the only Irish players are tops in the conference may Hayes. Catholics vs. 
one of the Columbus papers at

incomplete. who place a lot of importance not necessarily be tops in the Farmhands. It's all here, just
"That's the thing," Miller said. the time went to print and on this game are those from the Midwest. There's always Notre waiting to be fulfilled. "If he had gotten that intercep­made the headline, 'Ohio State Buckeye state, which total only Dame. "1935's game was one hellu­tion, we wouldn't have have wins 13-12."' four. "If I was Big Ten people, I'd va ball game," Pilney said. "I 
won the game. But if I hadn't Holtz has a vested interest in ''I'm looking forward to this tell Notre Dame, 'Hey, if you 
betcha this one's gonna be 

have fumbled, we wouldn't the game. As an Ohio State game personally," fullback and want to play us, come in the quite a donnybrook."have needed it anyhow. It prob­assistant under Woody Hayes, 1992 Ohio High School Player of conference,"' Cooper said. If it's anything like "The ably never would have been the he has had plenty of experience the Year Marc Edwards said. "I "Why play them? They're on Game of the Century," fans 
'Game of the Century' then." with the Buckeye tradition. But have a lot of friends that go to NBC, they recruit from coast to won't have to worry about it. Miller lost a fumble on the it's. hard to instill this into his Ohio State. They've been talk­coast, they get their pick of top "We're all really pumped for 
goal line with the Irish down players. ing to me a lot. ever since we players, and at our expense." this game," Buckeye linebacker 
13-6 in the second half. But all "One of the things I truly found out about this game." But besides jealousy, there's Greg Bellisari said. "This is the that's remembered is the touch­regret is I don't think I am Part of the deep-seated ani­the tradition. Over 200 years of type of game we'll remember down he scored to get them on going to be able to be on the mosity for the Irish comes from football between the two pro­for the rest of our lives." the board. sideline," he said. "That's really recruiting wars and the pres-grams. The Four Horsemen vs. Or for at least 60 years. 
October 3 is the Fall 1995 deadline for submissions to the 
I 
I 
Bring your poetry, prose and any other form of writing
I 
r 
to 356 O'Shag!!!
I I I 
Including your name, campus address and phone number, please. 
I I I I 
We will be accepting art submissions later in the semester. CALL JESSICA AT X3755 WITH ANY QUESTIONS! 
..,

I 
..-~-~. ~~~
41« 
~ .. 
. ~tJP t6 ttl ~tJP t6 ttl ~tJP t6 ttl ~~ t6 ttl ~~ t6 ttl ~tJP t6 ttl ~~ t6 ttl 



The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 29, 1995 

art starte 


Alumni clubs in Ohio go crazy in preparation for Notre Dames Saturday showdown with Ohio State ByMEGANMcGRATH 
I
t's a party that's been years this." in the making. Five years Mannix agrees, saying, "I ago, Notre Dame 
think we're so excited because 
of the chance to have Notreannounced that it would 
play a home-and-home series Dame come here." says the '83 with Ohio State for the first grad of Saint Mary's and '86 time in sixty years. As the date grad of NO's law school. "It 
got closer, the members of the might be the only time this will 
Ohio Notre Dame Alumni Clubs happen in my, or my children's, began planning for Saturday's lives." clash in Columbus. 
The Columbus Alumni Club "We starting meeting about has been the epi-center of about game activities about two Notre Dame activities for the 
years ago," says Aggie Mannix, weekend. The club's headquar­president of the Columbus ters will be at the Hyatt 
Regency,

Alumni Club. "But 
and the in the past festivies 
year it's being this gotten morning. really "Friday 
c r a z y morning 
we ' r e

around here, espe~ hosting cially since an educa­football 
t i o n season." forum F o r 
with Allen Mannix Page that 
we ' r e "Page is a great person to
and other 
v e r y have because not only was he a
Alumni 
great football player, but he's
Club mem­excited 
about," done a lot more with his life." 
bers in 
Mannix Page will join Notre Dame's
0 h i 0 • 
Rev. William Beauchamp, ath­
Saturday's said. 
letic director Michael
g a m e Page, a 
Wadsworth and master of cere­
looms as an opportunity for the former Notre Dame All­
state to host the Irish. American, NFL All-Star and monies Regis Philbin for a Kick­"In the past, Notre Dame has current associate justice of the off Luncheon at noon, also at played regional teams like Minnesota state supreme court, the Hyatt. Michigan and Penn State on a will talk to a group of local stu­Allen will recieve his 
Collegiate Hall of Fame ring at
regular basis," says William dents, educators and communi­
ty leaders. the luncheon. 
Koval, class of 1980, of the 
Cleveland Alumni Club. "It's an effort on our part to The Columbus club's festivi­
engage in community outreach ties continue with an evening
"It's exciting for a place like 
pep rally and Celtic Music
Ohio, a state that's so into foot­and continuing education," 
Festival at the Columbus
ball, to host a big game like Mannix said. 


It's only fitting that the nation's oldest marching band, the band of the Fighting Irish, will be on hand to cele­brate an old football rivalry. Promoting school spirit is one of the main functions of alumni clubs. 

Convention Center. The rally will feature performances by the Notre Dame band, cheer­leaders and glee club, and will also showcase local Celtic music performers and the Aloia family singers. 
Hosting the rally will be for­mer All-American John Krimm and Kevin Griffith, both Columbus Alumni Club mem­bers. 
Former players such as D'Juan Francisco, Bob Golick and Jim Tinsely will be present. 
The rally begins at six p.m. and is six dollars at the door, but only two for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with their IDs. 
O
n game day, the club will host•a pre-game tailgate party at the Fawcett Ceter on the OSU campus. The $15 entrance fee includes soft drinks and food, and there will be a cash bar. For those students and alumni without tickets, the club will have two big screen televi­sions set up to watch the game. 
The festivities conclude Sunday with a mass at the Hyatt at 10:30 and the Notre Dame-OSU women's soccer game at two. 
Gary Muture coordinated the Columbus club's effort along with Mannix. In addition to the game week-end preparations, the club sold t-shirts and hats to raise money for the local scholarship fund. The t-shirts, which feature the Ohio Stadium and the slogan, "A Rivalry Renewed," were also sold by the Cleveland and Springfield clubs. 
Other clubs across Ohio coor­dinated with the Columbus club for game-day and pep rally activities. 
Cincinatti is sponsoring a bus trip up to the game, and most cities are sponsoring watch parties. 
The Springfield club had the most elaborate local plans, according to Richard Kerry, '80. Wednesday night the club hosted a pep-rally in conjunc­tion with the local OSU alumni club. 
Former All-American Tim Foley of Notre Dame and his brother, Dave, an OSU grad and former Buffalo Bill, were speak­ers. 
"We've been talking about this all year," Judge Kerry said. 
"We wanted to do something local Wednesday before every­one turned their attention to Columbus this weekend." 
Alumni clubs ~cross Ohio were alotted a number of tick­ets, which many chose to raffie off in fundraisers for the clubs. The clubs saw their member­ship skyrocket at the prospect of winning tickets. 
In Canton, membership near­ly doubled, according to Mark Fisher. Fisher, an '83 grad who a two-year starter at center for the Irish, said. "Before we were allocated 20 tickets for the game, we had a member­
-

ship in the upper 90s, but we jumped to about 200 before the first raffie." 
In Columbus, pre-lottery membership was close to 280 people. Mannix now claims a membership of 540 in her club. 
Cincinatti Alumni Club con­tant Mike Geurin estimates his club's membership is up 20 percent, including some OSU grads who bought associate memberships in order to buy tickets. 
"It's not surprising the lengths people will go to get tickets," Geurin said. The alumni club contacts said tick­ets in their areas were selling for anywhere from 250 to 2000 dollars. 
"People are just going crazy around here," Mannix said. "People have been talking about this for a long time, and this is a really big deal for the OSU people and for Notre Dame alumni in Ohio." 

-~ ---. 

Friday, September 29, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA pageS 
''The Most Popular # on Campus'' Notre Dame Saint Mary's I University Villa~Je 271-1177 271-7272 
''We're Proud ofthe Irish ... BEAT THE BUCKEYES!'' 
-
# 
Saint Mary's·

Notre Dame 
It:s t,'i •.. 
Store Hours Store Hours* 
1tne 
Mon-Th Moo-Sat
I lam-lam 

to caJJ 
I lam-lam
Fri-Sat llam-3am 
SundaySun Noon-lam

.~Your Pa"~'
Noon-lam 
,...l;.f;. 

r -----, r -7J8r1Y7'aCG-, r iate'Nilespeclar , r Large noiipmg, r -Luncnp"eclai, I Large I I 4Large I I Large I I Bread Stix I I 1Small 2Topping I I 1Topping Pizza I I 1Topping Pizzas I I 1Topping Pizza I I 2 Cokes I I 2Cokes I 

Is II s II s II s II s I 
·w ·w
I 695 I I 2295·w I I 5~!-c~:7e I I 1ooo ·w I I 695 I L-----.J L-----.J L-----~ L-----.J L-----.J 
*From 1:OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 

•JOCK STRIP 
A present day for01ula for success 
H

istory has they are there. been the Second Quarter ­preeminent After being stopped 
focus for this week­on another drive, end's matchup. Notre Dame reaches Scrapbooks dating deep into its bag of back to the tricks. On fourth down, punter/quar­been dusted off, as terback Hunter Smith 
Associate
alumni of the two throws his first pass Sports Editor for the Irish out of a
schools remember 
when football results 
mirrored baseball boxscores. 
OSU faithful also point to a day ten years ago when their football lives were irre­versibly altered: Notre Dame was back on the schedule. 
It is recent history that should be more disturbing to Notre Dame. Three years ago, despite a mediocre sea­son, last second heroics ·against ·Penn· State rekindled 
the Irish spirit. No one needs 
to be reminded of the Florida 
State drama-turned-triumph. 
That was a mere two years 
ago. But the absence of a big 

win since makes the time 
grow exponentially. Saturday 
is a chance for redemption. 
The perfect scenario: 
First Quarter -Irish jitters 
show in the hostile environ­
ment. Hoying marches the 
Buckeyes on a time consum­
ing drive that ends in an 
Eddie George touchdown 
plunge. Irish fans in the 
parking lot start to ask why 

punt formation. The ensuing momentum carries Notre Dame to its first score, a bulldozing effort by Marc Edwards from five yards out. 
Third Quarter -Things start to get bizarre. During half­time the two bands engage in an instrument-clearing brawl. Then Irish offensive c_oordinator Dave Roberts misunderstands Lou Holtz's call for more 'popcorn' in the pressbox and installs a play from the shotgun formation. With OSU coach John Cooper going into convulsions on the sidelines, Powlus connects with Sollmann for a score. 
Fourth Quarter -Cooper, his own nemesis, goes with a newly installed option attack. Bert Berry picks off a pitch and races 62-yards, only to run out of bounds at the one because he can't see so well through his Darth Vader visor. Edwards scores again. Game, set, match Notre Dame. 
.--~  TOP  . -­ 
i.'  ,­ 25-''  
'  .  - 

PREV· 
TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 

1. Florida St. (42) 4-0-0  1528  1  
2. Nebraska (18)  4-0-0  1498  2  
3. Florida (2)  3·0·0  1399  4  
4. Colorado  4-0-0  1315  7  
5. Southern Cal  3·0·0  1293  5  
6. Penn State  3·0·0  1247  6  
7. Ohio St.  3·0·0  1220  8  
8. Michigan  4-0-0  1123  9  
9. Texas A&M  2-1-0  1012  3  

10. Oklahoma 3-0-0 957 10 11. Virginia 4-1-0 929 11 12. Tennessee 3·1·0 851 15 13. Auburn 2-1-0 810 14 . 14. Louisiana State 3-1-0 705 18 15. Notre Dame 3·1·0 623 21 16. Kansas State 3·0·0 601 19 17. Maryland 4-0-0 453 24 18. Washington 2-1-0 396 22 19. Oregon 3-1-0 379 12 20. Alabama 2-1-0 334 23 21. Texas 2-1-0 328 13 22. Stanford 3-0-1 264 .• 23. Arkansas 3-1-0 240 •• 
24. Texas Tech 1-1-0 146 •• 25. Kansas 4-0-0 118 •• 
• THE IRISH EmA STAFF Editor: Mike Norbut Managing Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editor: Tim Seymour Graphic Design: Chris Mullins Production: Thomas Schlidt Contributing Writers: 
Andy Cabiness, Megan McGrath, Thomas Schlidt 
II GAMES OF INTEREST 
#20 AlABAMA at GEORGIA A battle between fallen warriors, struggling to recover from early season losses. It is an SEC matchup that still has national ramifications, however. 
WISCONSIN at #6 PENN STATE A Big Ten matchup that teams across the Midwest will be watching. The Nittany Lions had trouble with Texas Tech and Rutgers in the first half, but Wisconsin has had trouble ill general. 
#4 COLORADO at #10 OKLAHOMA The biggest game of the week, which once again fea­tures the Buffaloes. It's the toughest game away from home for Colorado, who will have to stop the option in the Sooners' house. 
BYU at COLORADO STATE A wacky WAC matchup that could have a total score well into the lOO's. The Rams play well at home, and they have cool uniforms. But the Cougars will pass until they're as blue as their jerseys. 
• PEERLESS PRC18110SnCATORS 
Tim Seymour Mike Norbut Tim Sherman (13-5) (8-10) (15-3) 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Georgia Alabama Georgia Penn State Penn State Penn State Colorado Oklahoma Colorado 
Colorado St. Colorado St. BYU 

Papa lttdlelt: 
Notre Dame 38 
Ohio State 27 



