
Wednesday, February 1, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 77 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
University clears Kinder and Farmer 
By DAVE lYLER 
News Editor 
Notre Dame sophomore run­ning backs Handy Kinder and Hobert Farmer were exoner­ated of any wrongdoing in con­nection with an alleged dormi­
tory incident involving a freshman student. 
"We're glad this is over," Farmer said. ''I'm happy to be able to 


return to Farmer school and get back to studying." 
University officials are barred from commenting on disciplinary matters involving students by government regula­tions. 
"Federal law prohibits us from commenting, and as a general policy the University does not comment on student records, out of fairness to the student," said Assistant Direc­tor of University Public Rela­tions Dennis Brown. 
No details have been officially released on this incident, and no criminal charges have been ,.--=;;;:::----, filed. 


The inci­dent alleged­ly happened in the early hours of October 16 in Grace Hall, shortly 
Kinder after Notre Dame's foot­ball loss to Brigham Young. 
A student at Indiana University i.n Bloomington was alleged to have also been involved, but he was not subject to any action from the University. 
While the incident was under investigation, Kinder and 
Farmer remained on the foot­
ball team. The two traveled 
with the team to participate in 
the Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ari­
zona, but a knee injury pre­
vented Kinder from seeing ac­
tion. 
Farmer and Kinder had an opportunity to present their case during a three day hearing before an administrative disci­plinary panel. That hearing . concluded January 19, and the panel was expected to take up to two ,weeks to reach a deci­
sion. 
The South Bend Tribune, 

however, reported yesterday 
that a decision was reached 
Friday, and that the principals 
involved were notified of the 
panel's ruling Tuesday. 
Kinder and Farmer said that 

they were cleared of any cul­
pability. 
"We're back to normal for 

both of us," Kinder told the As­
sociated Press. 
"I'm not under any restric­tions that any other student isn't under." 
Reached by telephone last night Kinder and Farmer ex­pressed relief that the process was over. 
"Since November, we've had a real tough time. There's been a lot of stress on our families and reputations. I love this place, and I would hate to lose my chance here, to get an edu­cation and a degree from here," Farmer said. 
"We're anxious to put this behind us," said Kinder. ''I'm anxious to get back on top of my schoolwork." 
Farmer was quick to thank several people for their help. "My friends, teammates, and fellow students have been very supportive and I'm grateful for that." 
Kinder, of East Lansing, Michigan, and ·Farmer of Bollingbrook, Illinois, were 
heavily recruited coming out of high school. 
Both earned player of the year honors in their senior high school seasons. Kinder was Notre Dame's leading rusher last year, gaining 702 yards, and maintaining a 5.8 yard­per-carry average. Farmer rushed for 131 yards last sea­son on 26 carries. Both players said they plan to play football this coming fall, and will partic­ipate in spring drill and winter conditioning, although Kinder's injury may keep him out for a while. · 
"It's been tough. I'm excited now to get things back on track," said Kinder. ''I'm really excited to be a normal student again." 
The Associated Press, The South Bend Tribune, and Jason Kelly of The Observer Sports Department contributed to this report. 
Administration looks to election for cable advice 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant New; Editor 
Students are going to have to respond on elec­tion day if they want their voices heard con­~erning cable television access in dorm rooms. 
According to Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs William Kirk, "Students would have to show a significant amount of interest" on the ref­erendums being included on the ballots for Student Body President and Vice President on February 8. The responses from these ballots will be one of the factors considered by the administration in deciding whether or not to allow .cable access in dorm rooms, Kirk said. 
• see STUDENT REACTION, page 6 
Student Body President David Hungeling said that Student Affairs will use the information, but it will not be the only factor in their making a decision. 
According to llungeling, "If there is strong sup­port, we'll be in a better arguing position. The more students respond, the better our argument 
is." 
According to Kirk, the administration wants to lind out if students would be willing to pay for cable access. The administration would like to measure "student perception" of the idea, Kirk said. 
According to a draft of the referendum, which was included in a proposal voted on at last week's Student Senate meeting, the referendum "is being used by student government to gauge student support either for or against cable tele­vision access in every dorm room. The results of this poll will be used by student government and presented to the administration." 
The question on the ballot will read, "Would you support a $50.00 increase per semester to every on-campus student's room and board for cable television access in each dorm room ($100 per year)?" 
According to Kirk. cost will be a major issue for the administration in determining whether or not cable aecess in dorm rooms will become a reality. Although eosts are .still being considered, some plans have been deeided. 
"The fee would be 'across the board'," Kirk said. Students would not be charged according to room, due to the varying number of residents in each dorm room. 
SMC CAMPUS­SECURITY 

GOES ON-LINE 
BY lAURA FERGUSON 
SAINT MARY'S HEWS EDITOR 
When Saint Mary's students and staff pre­pare to enter the cam­pus tunnel system they must remember one thing about their ID­don 't leave home with­out it. 
S
ince the summer of 1992 
Saint Mary's has joined 
the trend of many other college campuses in implement­ing a card access security sys­tem. 
The purpose of bringing the campus on-line was for per­sonal security. According to Richard Chlebek, director of se­curity, it was discussed for sev­eral years but the catalyst was the Campus Crime and Aware­ness Act of 1990. This act stat­ed that institutions must pro­vide a safe environment for community members. 
Because Saint Mary's has so 
many facilities not only used by their own members but the Currently there are tentative In addition, all stairwells will Notre Dame and Holy Cross plans to bring Regina Hall on­have readers and the elevator communities as well, the Col­line next year, according to will have a system more similar lege needed to find a practical Chlebek. The system will be to a card reader than the code approach for security. similar to that used in LeMans access system currently in use 
"We didn't install a security Hall in that it will allow access in LeMans Hall. system because we had a prob­to academic or administrative A total of 14 readers will be lem on campus; it was done so areas but not to residential installed if the proposal is ap­something won't happen," com­areas for non-students. If proved by the Board of Trustees mented Chlebek. "Many cam­installed, there will be a card this spring. puses have had a reactive reader at the main entrance In the phase of the plan exe­approach but we hope that and the northeast door, but cuted last summer, the focus nothing will happen on (the there is still discussion regard­was to have multiple-purpose Saint Mary's) campus. We don't ing a computer ID reader on 
see SECURITYI page 4want to deal with a tragedy." the southwest entrance. 


see CABLE/ page 6 


---------------------------------------~----------------------~.----~--~------------------~~-------~-----------------------------. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 1, 1995 
• INSIDE COlUMN 

What kind of person are you? 

You've probably seen them in magazines. "Take this quiz to find out what kind of person you are." Those quizzes have always amused me, so I've developed my own, for entertainment purpos­es only, of course. But it might give you some 
. insight as to how ethical Patn Carson you are. Assistant Accent Editor 
1. You find a mini-case of CD's in the parking lot and the case has a name on it. You: 
A) Return the CD's. After all, you'd want them to do the same for you. 
B) It depends on if there are any CD's in the case that you don't already have. 
C) Finders keepers. 

2. A random person calls to invite you to an SYR or some other social function. You: 
A) Say, "Sure. I'm open to new experi­ences." 
B) It depends on whether you can locate a "dog book" fast enough. 
C) After last time? Forget it. Tell them you're having surgery that weekend. 
3. You find a twenty dollar bill on the floor of your dorm room or apartment kitchen floor. You: 
A) Ask who might have dropped it with intentions to return it. 
B) It depends on how you're doing fman­cially. 
C) Treat your roommates to a couple of pitchers that night. You'll go down as a hero in their eyes. 
4. You and a group of friends call a cab on a very cold night. You're waiting when the cab pulls up, but another person who happens to have a broken leg is waiting,too. You: 
AJ Let the person with the broken leg go in your place. You'll catch the next cab. 
B) It depends on whether the person broke his or her leg in a car accident or on an exotic ski trip. 
C) Say, "Sorry, but I'm not going to fall for that old broken leg trick." 
5. Your best friends from Georgia Tech want to come up for the weekend to visit you. You know it might be expensive to entertain them. You: 
A) Make plans to entertain them anyway. 

B) It depends what other offers you have for that weekend. 
C) Say, "Sorry. I have a leadership confer­ence that weekend." 
6. You go to a social event with a date that you can't tolerate. You: 
A) Stick it out. When else are you going to meet an authority on dog racing? 
B) It depends on how much free food and beverages are available. 
C) Fake an illness and get out of there. 
Someone has been out of class for a week due to serious illness. They ask you for your notes. You: 
A) Say, "Sure, and I'm glad you're feeling better." 
B) It depends on if the person is a member of the opposite sex and if you'd like to ask that person out. 
C) Say, "Sure, but it's going to cost you." 
Okay. You're finished. Add them up. If you answere.d mostly : 
A) Your mom would be proud of you. Pat yourself on the back. 
B) At least you're consistent in your incon­sistencies, as a wise Indianapolis man once said. 
C) To hell with you. (See you there.) 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production David Ring Tara Grieshop Edward Imbus Jackie Moser Sports Matt Casey Accent Tim Sherman Krista Nannery 

Wedne.day, Feb. 1 

The Accu-Weather~~~> forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 1.
Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc 
Pf988Uf9 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIS Associated Pf8ll!l 
• Wmn.n AT A GlANCE 
Tomb of Alexander The Great discovered in Egypt 
CAIRO 
in 323 B.C. at the age of 33. 
Archaeologists have found the long­His burial place is one of the great sought tomb of Alexander the Great in unsolved mysteries of the ancient the Egyptian desert, the head of world. History has it that after the Egypt's antiquities department said Macedonian warrior died in Babylon, today. now in central Iraq, his body was 
"I do feel that this is the tomb of moved to Syria and then to Egypt. But Alexander," Abdel-Halim Noureddin, the burial place was never found.
Tomb of
chairman of the Egyptian Antiquities Last weekend, Greek archaeologists
Kingdom of Alexander

Organization, told The Associated Alexander looking for the site disclosed that they
the Great between

Press. "All the evidence is there." had found two limestone plaques near 
334 B.C. and 323 B.C.

"We have dreamt about this for a found what appeared to be a large tomb at long time," he said. "When you find it, Siwa, 50 miles east of the Libyan bor­you never quite believe it." der. 
Noureddin, one of the nation's rank­The plaques were written in Greek ing Egyptologists, spoke after visiting and recount how Ptolemy, Alexander's the site near the oasis of Siwa in the 
aide and successor. brought his mas­Western Desert. 
ter's body to the tomb and buried it, Alexander, king of Macedon, was 
according to newspaper reports. one of the greatest generals of all time 
Noureddin said there was no question and one of the dominant personalities 
that the site "is a royal tomb." Its size, of the ancient world. 
he said, indicates that "it is not for the He led his armies out of Greece in 
ruler of the area or the province." 334 B.C. at the age of 22, creating an 
Newspaper reports described it as empire that covered much of Asia and 
130 feet long and 65 feet wide and built spreading Greek culture throughout 
with large stones. the Mideast and Asia. · 
The inscriptions provided "very good He is believed to have been planning 
evidence" that the tomb was a voyage by sea around Arabia when 
Alexander's, Noureddin said. he caught a fever and died at Babylon 
Peru sends troops to battle Ecuador Grisham sued for copyright fraud 
QUITO, Ecuador WASHINGTON 
Ecuador announced a cease-fi.re Tuesday to end border A lawyer who represented executed serial killer Ted clashes with Peru over a remote jungle region, but Peru Bundy and wrote a book about it is suing best-selling kept sending in troops and refused to confii"m any agree­novelist John Grisham for copyright infringement, claim­ment had been reached. No fighting was reported ing "The Chamber," -his latest work-"was copied Tuesday. Ecuador's armed forces said several skirmishes largely" from her book. The lawyer representing both erupted Monday, wounding one Ecuadorean soldier. Grisham and his publisher, Doubleday. on Tuesday More Peruvian troops -including crack counterinsur­called the lawsuit by attorney-author Polly Nelson "frivo­gency forces -traveled toward the border by river boat lous" and "a hustle." Nelson, who wrote "Defending the and trucks, even as diplomats gave mixed signals about Devil: My Story as Ted Bundy's Last Lawyer," bolstered whether Peru would accept the cease-fire, which her federal court claim with a lengthy list of "striking Ecuador said took effect at noon. In Lima, Rosa Jiminez, similarities" in the two books, such as "... the tale of a a Foreign Ministry press official, said Peru had not yet new lawyer in an establishment law firm who, to meet accepted the truce. But Peru's acting ambassador in her or his own personal needs, volunteers to take on the Quito, Vicente Rojas, overrode her comments, saying representation of the most notorious killer on death Peru had made no "official statement" on the cease-fire. row," Attorney Bruce Sanford, who represents Grisham Six deaths have been confirmed since fighting began last and Doubleday, said,"It's such a frivolous lawsuit that week, fueled by nationalistic passions on both sides. Doubleday will seek attorney fees as well as dismissal." 
Bombing kills 42 in Algeria, 284 hurt Job Corps attacked by GOP Senators 
ALGIERS, Algeria WASHINGTON 
The nation's president consoled victims of a lethal car Senate Republicans demanded Tuesday that the bomb Tuesday and pledged to resist opponents who Clinton administration make immediate changes in the "have only one goal -to destroy Algeria." He said elec­Job Corps program, which they said is beset by drug tions would proceed on schedule. The bombing, the abuse and violence and is not proving its worth. In a let­worst during a 3-year insurgency by Muslim militants in ter to Labor Secretary Robert Reich, Sen. Nancy this North :African nation, killed 42 people and wounded Kassebaum, R-Kan., who chairs the Senate Labor and 284 others. Seventy-six were still hospitalized Tuesday. Human Resources Committee, said recent hearings The stolen car blew up Monday afternoon in front of the uncovered serious shortcomings in the program. main police station, on a commercial street crowded with "Violence, drug abuse and other unacceptable behavior people preparing for the Islamic holy month of Ramadan. among students continues unchecked at many Job Corps No one claimed responsibility for the bombing. centers, while performance measures, to the extent they Authorities blamed Islamic extremists trying to topple exist, are below acceptable standards," wrote the military-backed government and install an Islamic Kassebaum, who was joined by GOP Sens. Mike DeWine state. Zeroual reiterated his intention to hold presiden­of Ohio and Judd Gregg of New Hampshire. Among the tial elections this year, despite the violence and opposi­letter's recommendations are an immediate halt to tion from all main political parties, partly because they expansion of the Job Corps, a product of President would exclude the outlawed Islamic Salvation Front. the Johnson's war on poverty that now operates at 111 cen­party that was winning the aborted January 1992 leg­ters. About 60,000 poor, mostly minority people aged 16 islative vote. Muslim extremists began their insurgency to 24 are enrolled yearly in the program's job training after the vote was canceled. and remedial education courses. 




Lab Tech Graphics Mark Alexion Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

AHanta 53 42 Dallas 74 43 New Orteans 65 
46 Baltimore 48 33 Denver 63 40 NewYort< 46 31 Boston 47 31 Los Angeles 83 56 Philadelphia 48 34 Chicago 39 23 Miami 72 50 Phoenix 80 54 Columbus 42 30 Minneapolis 33 17 St. Louis 49 
35 

Wednesday, February 1, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
esc sponsors service projects 


Volunteer work a unique opportunity 
By KATHLEEN BRANNOCK News Writer 
The start of second semester has many students looking to the near future and into possi­ble summer jobs and intern­ships. For most students, a job is a traditional way to help pay for tuition or earn some spend­ing money for next year. llow­nver, the Summer Service Pro­jects, sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, offer stu­dents of all grade levels the op­portunity to spend eight weeks of the summer performing com­munity service in a variety of programs throughout the United States and the world. 
Last summer over 140 Notre Dame students participated in summer service projects. The process includes completing an application, which can be ob­tained form the CSC; and then interviewing with Sue Cun­ningham, coordinator of Urban Plunge and Summer Service Projects, and a student who spent the previous summer in one of the service projects. Juniors are usually given prior­ity because it is their last sum­mer in school, but many under­classmen also participate. 

JAZZMAN'S 
f}.,[IPE CL1113 
and CRYSTAL PRODUCTIONS 

Presents an action-packed Las Vegas style show this Thursday's College Night for both male and female patrons with free buffet dinner and complimentary toast with student ID from 7:30p.m. until 9 p.m. or until food runs out. Show starts at 9:30 with limited admittance during show until midnight. 
$5.00 admission with student ID; $7.00 w/o ID 
Two dance floors with continuous entertainment and music until close. 21 and over admittance 
525 N. Hill St. 233-8505 
Advance tickets on sale-don't miss this show and the succulant dinner. 

Those accepted meet with Cunningham to discuss possible locations, interests, and the types of projects each would like to participate in. 
Since it is volunteer work stu­dents are not paid, but gener­ally they live with an alumnus and his or her family, and transportation to the job pro­vided. There is also a $1500 tuition scholarship given by the Alumni Club and the James F. Andrews Endowment, which sponsors the project, and three credits of theology given to ev­eryone who participates. 
Anne Janson, a junior from Siegfried Hall, spent last sum­mer in Sacramento, California, working in the Jane Lathrop School teaching learning-hand­icapped and severely emotion­ally-disturbed teenagers. All of these children had been re­moved from their homes be­cause of parental abuse or drug addiction, and many of the teenagers had been in trouble with the law. Janson worked full-time either assisting in classes or actually teaching them herself. She remains in contact with some of her stu­dents and co-workers. 
"My summer service project opened my eyes to problems I didn't know existed, but it also opened my eyes to possible so­lutions," Janson said. Presently she is involved with organizing and interviewing candidates for this summer. 
The program does not end when summer does; everyone involved in summer service projects is required to keep an ongoing journal of their daily experiences, submit a paper, and attend a follow-up retreat with Don McNeill, director of the esc. 
With junior interviews al­ready having begun, people still considering applying need to act quickly. Applications are required, which are due by February 8 at the CSC. 

at the 1995 S 
Literary Festival. *** 
-16 *** 
nightly readings by con orary writers 
8:00 
p Hesburgh ditorium 

*Undergraduate a tudent Reading* Feb 

Scholarship money increases 
based upon their academic and personal records and Undergraduate scholarship proven ability to overcome aid awarded by Notre Dame economic or social disadvan­has more than doubled in tages. With these and with the five years since scholar· all Notre Dame·based Onan· ship enhancement became cial aid programs, demon­the University's top priority, strated financial need is an according to a report from essential consideration in the Office of Financial Aid. addition to outstanding aca· 
·• Prepared by Joseph Russo, demic and personal records, director of Financial Aid, the Russo said. report provides a prelimi· Total aid for 1994-95-in­nary summary of all student eluding scholarships, loans, aid from University, govern· grants and jobs from all ment,. and private sources sources -is projected to be for the 1994-95 academic a record $92.5 million, a 5 ymtr. The final report will he percent increase from last issued at the. end of the fiscal year. ye~, June 30. Other highlights of the 
t.l;niversity·administered report: sgholarship aid for the cur· • In the freshman class, re'ttt academic year totalled University scholarship fund­$11,5 million. more tlran ing is up 3 percent from a twice the $5.4 million dis· year ago to $3.5 million. 
:tributed in.1989·90,the year • Loans to students and Notre Dame's Board of their parents account for Trustees established the $32.6 million of the $36.7 long-range goal of meeting million from federal assis­the full demonstrated finan· tance programs. ~he cial need of all students. remaining $4.1 million ~'The trustees' continued comes in the form of grants support for the increase in and work-study programs. scholarship resources is • Nonfederal finapcial aid, clearly reflected both in the including scholarships from dollars being made· available outside the University, alter· and in the number of stu-native loans, grants-in·aid, dents being assisted," Russo tuition remissions, and said. "At the same times, we University student employ· have a long way to go and ment, rose 6 percent to will qontinue to c:.oncentrate $48.6 million. on reaching the ultimate • ROTC scholarships rose goal of meeting the full by an average of almost demonstrated peed of our $3,000 per student and students:" totalled $7.2 millioP. 
The scholarship and grant • Sixty seven percent of asf!istance provided by the Notre Dame undergraduates, l!niv~rsity includes funds an.d 84 percePt of graduate awarded to Notre Dame students are receiving aid 
..Scholars .._ stud(')Pts wh<> {ire... this year. , >designated the most accom~ • Of the $92.5 million in. 
plis}led alllong f:1~ch inc om-aid distributed, about $57.7 $ cl 'Y~ll a,s Holy million is going to under­.. ··· warded pri· graduates and $34.8 million 
fity studepts to graduate studepts, 
Join the Observer staff 631-5323 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER. GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT • 2 4-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 





232-8256 


page 4 
----------------------------~ ~--~--·------------------~ 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 1, 1995 

continued from page 1 
cards making the campus less restrictive. In doing this, the entrances to the tunnels and the north door of Holy Cross were brought on-line in addi­tion to the existing readers in LeMans and McCandless. 
The original approach in this process was to isolate buildings by installing card readers in McCandless Hall. The follow­ing fall, readers and an eleva­tor code were placed in LeMans Hall. 
"I would imagine that as time goes by more buildings will be brought on to the system," said Chlebek. "It may be extended to academic buildings but there has been no discussion yet. We are concentrating on the resi­dence halls:" 
One added benefit of using this system is that lost or stolen cards can be invalidated so they cannot open any doors on campus, according to Chlebek. Security can also make code changes on individual cards to fit special needs, such as 24 hour access to a handicap en­trance for a physically chal­lenged student. 
Since the most recent card 

access installations allow for 
more access, the number of 
complaints have dropped 
significantly. According to 
Chlebek, the response of the 
Saint Mary's community is now 
quite favorable. 
"The only inconvenience is 

carrying an ID but if it prevents 
one tragedy it is worth it," 
Hurry! 
Only 2 Houses Left! 

•4 
and 5 Bedroom 

•Security 
Systems 

•Fully 
Furnished 


287-4989 
Pat McKelvey$100 OFF 

First month's rent with this ad 
•RHA 

Little Sibs, Keenan Revue this weekend 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Writer 

Last night's Residence Hall Associatron meeting focused on announcing upcoming activities at Saint Mary's. 
The Keenan Revue will run this weekend at O'Laughlin Theater. Following the perfor­mance on Friday, RHA will sponsor a pizza party in Hagar College Center. 
Elections for student body president and vice-president will be held on February 21. All students are encouraged to vote. According to RHA mem­ber Meg Courier, "Since the student body officers repre­sent the interests of the entire student body, only by voting can the students truly expect to have their expectations met." 
Also, Regina and Mc­
Candless Halls will hold a joint 
formal on February 10 at the 
Century Center, while Holy 
Cross Hall's formal will be 
February 11 at Holiday Inn. 

Finally, Little Sibs weekend 
will take place this weekend. 
A complete list of activities for 
participating students is avail­
able at the front desk of each 
residence hall. 
Chlebek said. 

Rachel Tenyer, resident di­rector of Holy Cross Hall, agrees that the system is a wise , safety measure. "At first it was a hassle but in the long run it will be a benefit," she said. 
She also mentioned that if more readers were installed in Holy Cross she wouldn't be op­posed but would want to know what students have to say about it. "The advantage is that it (the card access system) only allows people with cards in but I consider the building already to be secure because of the desk workers." 
Sophomore Jennifer Green says on the whole she feels safe but is concerned about the brief time lapse from when the door closes and when it relocks itself. 
"It has crossed my mind," Green commented. "Why couldn't someone wait and fol­low someone else in?" 


Council designates funds 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Assistant News Editor 
Residence halls will receive a total of $13,000 from the Hall Presidents' Council general fund to use at their discretion, the HPC decided last night. 
By a 32-9 margin, council members voted to allocate $500 to each of the 25 dorms and to the off-campus resi­dents. The money can be used for anything that benefits the students and is not prohibited by University guidelines, according to Rich Palermo, co­chairman of the council. 
The council decided to make the allocations because it has more money than it can spend by the end of the school year, according to Palermo. 
If the money is not used by year's end, University officials assign it to a fund composed of money from other campus or­ganizations, and HPC loses its claim to that money for 1995­96. 
Therefore, spending the 

JV\terested iV'l doiV\9 desktop p1AblishiV\g for the Observer? call 3ackie Moser at 4-1884 
funds is necessary if next year's council wants a similar-sized budget, according to Palermo. 
"If (University officials) see that we're not spending the money that we're given, they'll be less willing to give us as much money next year," he said. 
Current budget estimates show that roughly $36,000 are in the council's coffers. Of that amount, $2,000 have been set aside for the winners of the dorm-of-the-year contest, and $5,000 remain in the council service fund. · 
With $13,000 now allocated to the dorms, $16,000 have yet to be designated. 
Palermo raisect the possibility of placing the remaining money into a contingency fund, where­by the council will be able to retain its claim to the money for next year. 
Specifics regarding the con­tingency fund have not yet been explored, Palermo said. 
Two other points regarding the allocations were discussed at last night's meeting prior to voting. Heather Hughes, trea­surer of Notre Dame's chapter of Habitat for Humanity, asked the council for donations to help Habitat build a home in South Bend over spring break. 
However, the council can only give service organizations money from its service fund, because the majority of its funds comes from student activities fees, which must be used to benefit the students, according to ·university policy. 
Also, council members briefly discussed dividing the $13,000 among the dorms according to student population. 
But that idea was dismissed because the council decided that if it were to assign the funds based on anything but a flat allocation, then other fac­tors besides population -such as a dorm's financial need ­would have to be analyzed, ac­cording to Palermo. 
Each dorms has until a tenta­tive April 1 deadline to decide how it will use its $500, Palermo said. 

Secretary of Housin~ & Urban Development 
Wednesday, Feb. 22 8:00 PM Stepan Center 
$3 for students $5 general admission Tickets Available at the LaFortune Info. Desk 

Brought to you by the Student Union Board 

STUDENT UNION BOARD STUDENT UNION BOARD 
I 
/ 
I 

HEY WEST Jj;:t;t.J,\:[•f:S. 


Former Congressman 
Wednesday, February 1, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Movements serve as a response to feminism 
By NICOLE NIELSEN 
News Writer 
Michael Kimmel, professor of sociology at the State University of New York, addressed the is­sue of the gender gap and men's movements in his lecture entitled, "Men's Movements in the 1990's," the second part of the lecture series "Masculinity in the 1990's: The Social Construction of Being Male." 
When asked why men have not become pro-feminist, Kimmel responded by saying "it is a question of power." There is a certain symmetry in the idea that men have all the power and women do not feel powerful, according to Kimmel. 
Men's view of the situatiQn, however, is asymmetrical, Kimmel said. "Men feel that their wives boss them around, their bosses boss them around, and their kids boss them 
'women should have no access to higher education.' 
Michael Kimmel, speaking on anti-feminist beliefs 
around." They do not under­stand it when women say that men have all the power. 
REAL FILMS REEL STUDENTS REALLY ... 
ALL-NEW!!! 


STUDENT FILM FESTIVAL 
THE BEST FILMS BY STUDENTS FROM SORIN, DILLON, LEWIS, BREEN PHILLIPS, MORRISSEY, TURTLE CREEK, CAMPUS VIEW, LAFAYETTE SQUARE, AND MANY MORE 

.·t. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY FEB. 3 & 4 7:30 AND 9:45 PM CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
PRESENTED BY NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION & THEATRE 
"Masculinity has been mis­theorized," he said, stating that women have described it to be "the drive to dominate, the drive for power, and the drive to control." Kimmel contends rather that "masculinity is re­ally about the fear of other peo­ple having power over us." Thus, "acting masculine be­comes compensatory behavior so that we won't be seen as unmanly," 
Kimmel pointed to three groups that have formed in re­sponse to feminism: the anti­feminists, the mythopoetic movement or the masculinists, and the pro-feminists. 
Within the anti-feminist movement, there are two sub­groups: the traditionalists, and the men's rights group. The belief of these traditionalists is that "women and men are so fundamentally different that you cannot let women into the public sphere. They belong in the home." According to Kimmel, traditionalists believe that "women should have no access to higher education be­cause their bodies would col­lapse" because of the biological and psychological differences between men and women. Kimmel stated that this was the theory behind the events that went on at the Citadel. 
Last year, the formerly all­male Citadel military college in South Carolina was successfully sued by a female who was ac­cepted for admission, only to then be turned away when the school administration learned of her sex. A federal court or­dered her admission because the Citadel receives state and federal funds. 
A group within the traditionalist movement is the Promise Keepers, founded by the head football coach at the University of Colorado. They believe that women's achieve­ments have disrupted the nat­ural flow of things. The "promise" made by men is that "they will respect their wives and be faithful if their wives agree to stay home with the children, not go to college, and not have a job," according to Kimmel. 

The second group of anti­feminists is the "men's rights" group. Kimmel said this group believes that "men's power is an illusion." This group talks about violence against men and a fear of false accusations. The recent movie "Disclosure" is an illustration of this prevailing at­titude. 
"Women hit men as much as men hit women," is an argu­ment of the men's rights group . Kimmel pointed out that the flaw in this argument is that the group looks to surveys that ask questions like, "Have you ever hit your spouse?" The surveys fail to question who started it, how often it occurs, or how severe the abuse is, Kimmel said. 
The second men's movement is the Mythopoetic or the Mas­culinists. This group "does not care what women do. They want places where they can be men together. They seek to develop manly styles of nurtur­ing." 
Kimmel made reference to the Boy Scouts, and said that the organization was formed out of these ideas. 
One problem with this group, according to Kimmel, is that they engage in many Native American rituals in order to "connect with the earth." In that sense, he sees them as racist. He says that white men cannot get this connection in our culture, so they dress up and paint their faces like Native Americans in order to experi­ence it. ' 
Finally, Kimmel discussed the pro-feminist group. In essence, "the pro-feminists support women in every arena that women have found important." 
As a supporter of the pro­feminist movement, Kimmel stated that "it is in men's best interest to support feminism." 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 



Candlemas 
Feast of the Presentation of the Lord 


-
0MPUS MINISIRY 

Thursday, February 2, 1995 5:00p.m. Mass 

Tlu congregation is invited to bring candles from their homes to the church, where they wil! be blessed for the new year. The blessing ofcandles and procession will begin at the Lady ChapeL 


'Thin~ Surnrner 
consuur spend.i,ng eL9ht weeh,s of your summer worft-Ln9 wi.ti a d.LscuLvanta9ed popu!att.on 
sponsored &y Notre Dame Aeumni. Cf:u&s across the country 
-a wo1"1.derfu.f: [e.a.rni..ng experience 
-$1500.00 Soci.a! Concerns SchoCarshLp 
-3 'TheoCogy cred.i,ts 
.9lpp{ication dead{ine: :February 8 1r. 
information availabCe at the Center for SocW Concerns 
Questl.ons: SQ IJO"f HaU: Rep or s ... Cunninqfuun <lt UUI esc 
-.-. -.-.-.­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 1, 1995 



Cable 
continued from page 1 
Students respond to idea of cable 
In the Student Government Board of Trustees Report "Accessing the Future -The Need for Cable Television," which was published on September 29, 1994, the ex­ecutive coordinator of the com­mittee which organized the report Larissa Herczeg com­mented on the cost. 
Herczeg said, "Never again will Notre Dame be presented with such a cost-effective 


Clinton speaks to young audience 
ByNANCYBENAC 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

President Clinton sat down with a group of high school stu­dents Tuesday and offered them some advice that he's try­ing to heed himself on how to polish a tarnished image. 
Asked how young people can dispel negative impressions of themselves in the media, Clin­ton laughed and said, "I don't know that I'm the best one to ask about negative portrayals." 
But then he offered the May­or's Youth Council his solution, saying it's the same advice a president has to follow. 
"You have to always be look­ing for new ways to manifest the idea that most young people are good," Clinton said, ''And every time you do some new thing to manifest that, then that's news." 
He told the high school ju­niors and seniors, "You ought to have one person on your council whose job it is to always be thinking of some new thing you're doing that hasn't yet been portrayed. 
"You can't turn this around overnight, but over time, if you're steady about it, you will slowly balance the scales," Clinton said. 
It's the same strategy the president is trying to pursue as he blames the Democrats' dev­astating midterm election loss­es on a failure to let people know about his administra­tion's accomplishments. 
He had a receptive audience in the youth council. 
Meg O'Brien, from Boston's 

Dorchester neighborhood, told 
Clinton, "My dad wants me to 
let you know: About the 
November elections, this too 
shall pass." 
Clinton laughed and replied, 

"They already have. Tell your 
dad he can send me a message 
any time." 
The young people's questions 

to Clinton mirrored the con­
cerns of their society: how to 
curb teen pregnancy, how to 
make college more affordable, 
how to get guns off the streets. 
One young woman, Kristy Foster of Mission Hill, was overcome with emotion as she read Clinton a letter in which she said that after she received a letter from the president about fighting violence, "I de­cided to do positive things with my community." 
Clinton's primary purpose for visiting Boston was to headline a $1.3 million evening fund­raiser benefiting the Demo­cratic National Committee. 

Come to Late Night Olympics on Friday, February 3, and take part in the OPEN SKATE event which is scheduled from 10:00 PM -Midnight. 
No advance sign-ups are needed. The cost of Skate Rentals is $1.00 and all rental fees will be donated to Special Olyrrip'lcs. 
opportunity at a time when stu­dent and faculty demand for cable service is so high." 
According to the Board of Trustees Report, money can be saved by installing cable now since the University is in the process of working on the com­puter network. Installing cable and network wires at the same time would "save hassle," as well. 
Hungeling agreed that Notre Dame should not wait any longer if it is going to gain cable access in dorm rooms. 
"The time is now," Hungeling said. 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Students will have the opportunity to let the adminis­tration know how they feel about having cable TV in their dorm rooms by way of the referendum on the ballot for Student Body President and Vice President on February 8. As for now, opinions have var­ied on the issue of having and paying for cable access in dorm rooms. 
According to Fisher Hall freshman Eddie Ebert, "The University refuses to realize that there's technology out there." 
"We've got to move on," he said. "The University should meet the students' needs." 
When asked if he would be willing to pay the estimated $100 per year to have cable television access in his dorm room, Ebert said, "I guess so. If the fee is broken down, it's only $12 a month." 
According to Molly Laing, a sophomore from Howard Hall, cable television in dorm rooms is "necessary." 
"In a dorm where there are 250 girls and one television with cable access, people want to watch more than one show at one time." 

Off-campus senior, Patrick McMonagle said he thinks cable television in dorm rooms would be "an incentive to stay in all day." 
"A lot less work would get done," he said. 
In reference to Flanner Hall and Grace Hall, which have access to more channels than most dorms, Pangborn Hall sophomore Kristin Ausanka said, "It's unfair that a few dorms on campus have it and others don't. Either every­body should have it or every­one shouldn't." 
Flanner and Grace were both constructed with coaxial cables which allow their resi­dents to view up to fourteen channels in comparison to most dorms' access of only three to five channels, accord­ing to the Student Government Board of Trustees Report "Accessing the Future -The Need for Cable Television." 
Ausanka said she would not be willing to pay the estimated $100 per student per year to have cable in her dorm room. 
"It's not that much of a ne­cessity," Ausanka said. How­ever, if she could share the cost with the other three members of her quad; Ausanka said she would pay the fee. 
In a student survey conduct­ed by the Student Government this past September, 1351 stu­dents responded out of an approximate 6,000 on-campus students, according to Executive Coordinator of the Board of Trustees Report Committee Larissa Herczeg. Of these 1351 students, 85.4% said they would want cable TV in their dorm rooms, and 58.2% said they would be will­ing to pay $15 to $20 per month for cable access. Since the time of the survey, howev­er, the estimated fee has decreased. The approximate fee, as stated on the ref­erendum, is $100 per student per year. 
In reference to the student response of the survey, Her­czeg said, "Student interest returned quickly." 
Students were given only five days, two of which were weekend days, to fill out and return the surveys, according to Herczeg. 
"We're looking forward to the results of the referendum,' Herczeg said, "because it should reach a majority of the student body." 






H.U..G.S. 
Meeting 
Wednesday, Feb. 1st 8-9 p.m. in the C.S.C. 
• 
Bring the date of MMR shot and Chicken Pox Vaccination 

• 
TB test will be required 


• Returning members sign up for spring semester schedule on Tuesday Jan. 31st; 5-9:30 p.m. at 
c.s.c. 




• 

Wednesday, February I, 1995 The Observer • EUROPEAN FLOODING page7 
Flood waters continue to rise in Netherlands 
By ABNER KATZMAN 
Associated Press 
AMSTERDAM, Netherlands 
Dozens of Dutch hamlets became ghost towns Tuesday as tens of thousands fled surg­ing rivers that threatened to breach dikes and flood farm­lands. At least one person drowned. 
Flood waters that killed at least 27 people in northwestern Europe earlier this week began to recede. But the flooding wasn't expected to peak until Wednesday in the Netherlands, where most land is below sea level. 
On Monday, about 15,000 people left low-lying farmlands of their own volition. On Tues­day, the evacuations were mandatory: Dutch authorities declared a state of emergency and ordered 70,000 people out of "polders," farmland re­claimed over the centuries from marsh and river basins. 
Highways north from the flooded areas were clogged Tuesday night after officials asked 100,000 more to leave the danger zones. 
Dozens of Dutch farming hamlets along the Maas and Waal rivers were deserted Tuesday, residents fleeing with little more than the clothes on their backs. 
"The rest of the vHlage has 

Presents a special "Thank you" College Jazz Night this Wednesday. 
-Live Jazz Upstairs Lounge-Different in-house specials every hour in the downstairs lounge, with the palmsters spinning your favorite dance music for the non-jazz patrons. 
$1.00 admission with student ID before 11:00 pm. 
525 N. Hill St. 
233-8505 Rear entrance 8:00-11 :00 pm for admittance~ with student 10. Ample parking on our rear Niles St. parking entrance. 
State law requires that you must be 21 or over for admittance. 
gone," a teen-age girl walking with three children down the empty street of one village told Dutch Television. "But we still have some animals with us and we cannot leave them behind." 
More than a hundred buses rounded up people in the Bommelerwaard, Warne!, Druten and Ooijpolder and took them to evacuation centers. Of­ficials said the evacuation was orderly. 
Tens of thousands of farm an­imals also had to be shipped out of the polders to keep them from drowning. 
Jan Roelofs, a crisis center spokesman in Nijmegen, said the dikes were "stable, but weak." 
But if even one dike burst, some villages would be sunk in up to 16 feet of water. And water could submerge sec­ondary highways and cut off escape routes. 
"I have 6,000 chickens," screamed one farmer over the telephone to the local crisis center at the Waal River town of Beneden-Leeuwen. "I am stay.i,ng put. You don't get me out. 
Dutch farmers prepared for the flood by shipping livestock to market early, since they wouldn't be able to graze the animals on flooded land. 
The flooding was the worst since 1953, when the North Sea dikes in the southern Zeeland province burst, killing more than 1,800 people. The dikes that were threatened Tuesday were not sea dikes, however, but river dikes, and the threat to life was believed to be less extreme. 
The first death from the Dutch floods was reported Tuesday, a 52-year-old woman who drowned in the Waal River village of Winssen, said Ruud Scheider, a spokesman for the crisis center in Nijmegen. 

Floods in Europe reach 
record levels 
APITerry Kola 

Thousands of acres of land were under water. But dikes that keep the river water out of the reclaimed areas were hold­ing, with flooding primarily near the banks of the Maas and Waal rivers. 
The long lines of evacuation vehicles evoked images of World War II, when residents fled Dutch cities that sustained heavy bomb damage. 
One old man told Dutch Tele­vision he had left everything to take refuge in Nijmegen. "What else could I have done?" he asked. "I could have waited but then it would be too late." 
"My girl friend became hys­terical ... We packed up all our stuff and left," another person told the television station after reaching a relief center. "Everyone was on the road, 
: Loire River Mayenne River 
• Meuse River 0 Seine River G Vilaine River 
i.Fulda River Main River Mosel River Rhine River 
f) Saar River 

there was traffic and you just can't get anywhere." 
A thousand soldiers were brought in to assist in the evac­uation effort and major Dutch highways were closed to all but emergency traffic to facilitate evacuations. 
All canal barge shipping was halted in the area to prevent damage to the dikes. 
Flooding, caused by the early melting of Alpine snows and heavy rain, wreaked deadly havoc elsewhere in northern Europe. 
The official toll was 15 dead and five missing in France, at least four dead in Germany, five dead and one missing in Belgium, and one dead each in Luxembourg, Austria and the Netherlands. 
Is the South Bend winter everything you thought it would be? 
Bring on the Spring in style with: 
THE WINTER DEFIANCE DANCE 
Brought to you by FLIP SIDE 
Now you ask, what is a winter defiance dance? 
Answer: A dance occurring in the winter where people act as if it was spring. Proper attire will be shorts and T-shirts. If sane (not applicable to F.S. officers), come dressed a little bit warmer and change when you get 
there. 
WHEN: Saturday, February 4@ 9:00-1:30 
WHERE: The 2nd floor LaFortune Ballroom 
HOW MUCH? Always the inevitable question, 
admission is $2.00 for NO and SMC students and $1.00 for Flip Side members. 
Any questions, call Jen (4653) or Mark (1582) for details. 
Irish Win Bi If Arbys Fl 
<:::::::::::) 

On 31 
Opening 
Hours:
FREE 
'Till 1 AM Sun­Thurs
ELIVERY 
'Till2 AM Fri Lunch and 

and Sat Regular Hours 
Lunch 11-2 

Spring-Special
• 

14 INCH 2 ITEM PIZZA-$7 INCLUDESTAX 2-12 INCH 61TEM PIZZAS-$10 INCLUDESTAX 
273-3890 
IISTILL THE HEST" 

---------""!""'~!""!"'-:-.·-----...............j&..f""',"'!."":---~~---........---------~---.""'"''~l""''"'r-:""-~.._----____,____ ~~---. -~~­
• 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 1, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Eiizabeth Regan Conuoller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as ·accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers.. The fr~ expression of varying opinions through letters is encomaged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Genera1Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
P6K "kl~El.F, ''l-bW C0tn.V MR. t?~ AA'IE-IX>NE. rr~" 3JJ;'l' LQ:JK AT THD?E Cj~~ ON 1-\l<; :KNE.Et;. 
--Vor~~t: ~1es bloocl on Ms 50Cks... 


Keeping resolutions: Christians first, patriots second 
Moving away from 'me' 
Just like the start of the new are we willing to put into im­year, the start of a new semes-proving other peoples lives? ter finds many people, myself Sometimes I think that I'd be included, "turning over a new lucky if I could just keep my leaf'. own life on track, let alone find 
Often times we tend to set un-time to help other people. It's realistic goals for ourselves, fig-easy, with the lives that we lead uring that even if we only make and the commitments we make, it half way that's better than to get caught up in our own lit­where wet================tle world, 
are now. and forget If you're that there anything Frank are other 
like me, people out y o u ' v e there, con-probably Cristinzio 
tinuatly
vowed to passing in keep up and out of with all the our lives. reading in---___:========------We influ­
your classes, to get in better shape, read a major newspaper every day, stop losing your keys, and the list goes on and on. 
We buy brand new 1995 monthly and daily planners, new running shoes, and boldly go forth to become better peo­pie. As always, the road to hell is paved with good intentions. While the desire is often there, the willpower rarely is. The only resolution I haven't broken so far is to try to go out every Thursday night. 
Think about the common theme that runs through most of our resolutions. I bet they all center around one person. 
You and me. 
We are the central concern in all of our resolutions. We are dedicated to improving our own lives. But what can we do to help other people? We're will­ing to devote considerable en­ergy to improving our own lot, but how much time and energy ence these people a whole lot more than we think, just by our day to day encounters. It really is the little things that make the difference. Take the time to hold the door for people. Have lunch some time with a friend you haven't seen in awhile. Smile and say hello to people you don't really know. (Yeah I know, that may seem a little strange, but if you don't know someone, you have little to lose and everything to gain.) 
Never underestimate the im­pact you can have on the lives of the people who pass through your own personal sphere of influence. Often times its just a matter of taking the time out to do it. After all, it costs nothing, and it's cholesterol free. 
This new year, in addition to our resolutions to improve our own lives, maybe we can find time to brighten the lives of the people around us. 
Frank Cristinzio is a senior. He lives in Stanford Hall. 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in response to David McMahon's "ND's No place for ROTC," and his myopically idealistic vision of the world. 
Should the ROTC program be continued here at Notre Dame? David McMahon states that "There is no place for ROTC on this campus." Following Mr. McMahon's logic that ROTC "trains people to be good Christian killers," it is evident the con­cept of maintaining armed forces for "defense" is clearly beyond his understanding. 
Moreover, anyone who equates "the SS, the storm troopers in 'Star wars,' and the U.S. Army" cannot hope to maintain academic credibility in such a discourse. Yet, absurdities continue to be spewed forth throughout Mr. McMahon's letter. For example, he writes of numerous invasions and "a glorious history of genocide against indigenous peoples." With this past week mark­ing the 50th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz, it should go without saying that the 
U.S. armed forced helped STOP genocide, not commit it. 
Yet, if one wants to presume that the military is inherently a grD,1.lp of "killers" as Mr. McMahon claims, isn't it a credit to this university that it has taken on the mantle of training leaders to be Christians first and patriots second, as the plaque on Sacred Heart states? Surely it must be clear that having a morally and ethically trained defense is a better alternative to savage warriors of death. 
Next, it should be noted that ROTC candidates are not here to be trained as steely-eyed killers. Many of them would not be able to attend this university without the assistance and scholar­ships provided by the program. Apparently Mr. McMahon, and for that matter Mr. Ozersky, come from a world where everyone can afford any­thing they want, but for the rest of us who have bills to pay, ROTC offers a boon against the spi­raling cost of education. 
Additionally, irony strikes again in the respect that stereotyping and grouping certain segments of this campus together is contrary to the entire concept of academia. For, how can any exchange of differing ideas and perspectives hope to be achieved in a community where alternative view­points are subject not to academic analysis, but mockery and disrespect? 
I am not claiming that ROTC should be cheered and unconditionally supported. I agree that there should be no need for ROTC, or for that matter an army. Carrying that logic, we do not need police, or any laws. Yet, do not live in a perfect world. Justic;e does not always triumph in our world. The result is that certain individuals feel a calling to defend the rights and freedoms of oth­ers. 

It is unfair, however, and ignorant to judge another's commitment to service based on the fact that the manner of service chosen may be different from one's own. Also, since Mr. McMahon brings Christianity into the whole fra­cas, I would ask him to read Matthew 7:1. For his benefit it states: "Judge not, lest ye be judged." 
What is important here is not support for the manner of service chosen, but respect for one's choice. It is unfortunate that Mr. McMahon's "free thought" is warped in such a fascist man­ner that he feels his viewpoint is apparently the only one of value. 
Further, it stands a sad commentary that close­mindedness and aversion to respectful accep­tance of differences pervades the viewpoints of this so-called "large population of students." When was such a survey taken? Such sweeping generalizations are the exact types of provincial ideas which are supposed to be quashed by con­tinuing education and learning in a university setting. 
I encourage Mr. McMahon to illustrate his bevy of generalizations with facts about U.S. "concentration camps." I further hope that he mentions the rape of Nan king by Japanese sol­diers or the Bataan death march, or even the multitude of atrocities and crimes committed in Haiti before our much-welcomed intervention. 
These events paint not propaganda, but the truth, something which is apparently unneces­sary to Mr. Mc~ahon's so-called "humanitarian" view of the world. For the rest of society, howev­er, truth does have a value, as does an accurate representation and discussion of opposing view­points. 
There is clearly a place on this campus for opposing ideas, and Mr. McMahon's attempts to remove ROTC are a veiled attempt to remove opposition. Who is the fascist now? 
ANDREW MURRAY Sophomore Sr. Edward's Hall 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DOONES6URY 

PW/'v1 A7516NMeNT, HUH~ THe tuHYWN'TI !YIAY8e 7J<JAL-Of 7He aNTl.JRY, ANI? FtWYOtJ7H& I{,{){}t./? I 6!3T 70 R£PO!<T ON OTHER QU&7f!ON'3 r JOBn'CXJT,
MIGHT TA!<E

~'3! PAYSOM&
90M&Of7H& 
K/1?. .. 
m:;.~'JJ<:E OFF. 
\ 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The Christian ideal has 
not been tried and 

found wanting. It has been 
found difficult; and left 
untried." 
-Gilbert Keith Chesterton 
----~ ~~·-,...-;---~-------~--~...
~---~-----------~---------,--~----------~~~-----------------------~~ 
ACCENT 
Wednesday, February 1, 1995 page 9 
• fASHION fOlliES 
Suit Yourself With Fashion 

Author John Molloy practi­cally invented the "image" business and captured the dress code when he first wrote his book. Dress for Success, in 1975. Although the idea of dressing to 
create a cer­tain look has remained a major rea­son why we wear partic­ular items, some of the 

"rules" have Veronica Torres C h a n g e d Accent Columnist over tlu~ ··------­years. 
You thought dressing for a weekend night was difficult? Just wait until you are an upperelassperson and you are faeed with the problem of find­ing the perfect interview suit that you can afford and look good in. Trust me, it is harder then it sounds. 
One of the reasons that dressing for success can often lead to endless hours of shop­ping and frustration is, "There is so little literature available that addresses this issue for women." says Karen Kyle, Assistant Director for Career Development at Saint Mary's College. 
Manier ean not emphasize enough the importance of dressing correctly and doing personal research before inter­viewing. One of the first pieces of advice she o!l'ers students is to evaluate the way people are drnssing in the industry and to then dress on the "nicer" side of that. 
In what arc known as the creative fields, however. appli­cants have a bit more range in the correct attire to wear. For them. colors. patterns and tex­tiles need not follow the guide­lines of a more conservative market, yet must remain within the boundaries that constitute a professional and serious 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

FROM LEFT to RIGHT: Megan Murphy shows conservative can still be comfortable. Nancy Stzelecki pre­
pares herself fashionably for an informational interview. 
image. 
Manier instructs women to stay away from anything that is too revealing and too fluffy. And any hint of a sexual pres­ence should be kept out of an interview. 
The best fabric for your suit or dress should be wool or a wool blend. Wool has a richer look, is generally better tai­lored and will maintain its shape. 
Generally, skirt hemlines should remain modest. Lengths that fall to the knee or just above the knee work for most industries. Keep in mind however that in the financial world, as Manier indicates, candidates should not stray too far away from the established image. The cut and color of a suit should be conservative and although wearing a dress is O.K., that student may be risking a job. 
Still, whatever field you plan to enter, it is equally important to feel comfortable with what you are wearing. For students, "It can be difficult to feel at ease if they are not used to 
wearing certain items." says Manier. 
In this case, a student needs to attempt a balance between her personal style and that which the industry considers appropriate. An example of this could be walking in high heels. Although heels can often be very uncomfortable, in certain instances they can be replaced by dressy flats or low pumps if fitting. However, with a conser­vative suit, flats just will not do. 
Being well-groomed is a must at an interview. Hair must re­main off the face and try avoid­ing hair styles that cover the eyes. Although many people seem to be cutting their long locks just in time for in­terviews, Manier says, "You can have long hair, just be sure that it doesn't distract from you." 
With jewelry use discretion. Wear nothing that dangles and makes noise. Again, remove anything that will divert the in­terviewers attention away from you. 
Unsure of what to carry? 
Some say a small, leather purse that matches the color of your shoes is a good invest­ment while others believe that a briefcase is more profession­al. Whatever you do, do not carry both! If it is necessary for you to carry some personal items with you, tuck them in a . container inside your briefcase. 
On the other hand, when dressing for an informational interview (a meeting where a person intends to gather in­formation on a career field or employer) the look is more ca­sual because the job seeker is only asking questions. ­
Nevertheless, it is important to make a sound impression because that person may be­come a key player in the future. Here are some guide­lines. Dress according to where you are meeting, and how well you know the person. If you have an appointment during the work day, dress more professionally because the per­son you are meeting with will probably be wearing a business suit. Moreover, if you plan to meet after hours the code is more flexible, a nice pair of pants and a vest would be appropriate. 

To reiterate, always consider the industry you are interested in when thinking about what ·you will wear. When it comes down to it, dressing for an in­terview really involves your personal common sense. And because there is no set formu­la, the best question to ask yourself is "what statement is this outfit making about me?" Good luck in the future. 
Do's & DoN'Ts 
Do's: 
• 
Power colors: Dark purple, red, and black. Just know what looks good on you. These colors are stronger and have a tendency to wash certain types out creating an unhealthy look. In blue you can not go wrong. However, in some fields, wear­ing blue may run you the risk ... of looking too boring or like everybody else. Consider where you are applying first. 

• 
Sling backs with closed toes are appropriate. Check for scuffs and damaged heels. 

• 
Stockings should be sheer, light and untextured. 


DoN'ts: 
• 
Avoid overly long and brightly colored nails. 

• 
Avoid high-toned eye shad­ows and blush. 

• 
For blouses, avoid shiny fabrics, no satins or sheers. 


Editor's Note: This is the third in a series of fashion columns by Veronica Torres. Torres is a Spanish and English Writing major at Saint Mary's College. She has jour­nalism experience with Time Magazine Inc. Magazines, NBC and various campus publica­tions. Torres is pursuing a career in fashion editing. 
Wednesday, February 1, 1995 
page 10 

•NFL 
An undefinite dynasty 
By ROB GLOSTER Associated press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
The offseason lasted about 36 hours for San Francisco 49ers coach George Seifert, who was faced Tuesday with the prospect of losing players and coaches from his championship team. 
Six players -offensive tackle Harry Boatswain, safety Dana Hall, fullback Marc Logan, tight end Ted Popson, run­ning back Adam Walker and defensive end Mark Thomas -were left unpro­tected Tuesday for the Feb. 15 expan­sion draft and could be in Jacksonville or Carolina next season. 
"It's very difficult. You've worked with these players," Seifert said. "It's such a close group of players, you need that to win a championship. And then you have to put out a list two days later with six of those players." 
As Super Bowl participants, the 49ers and San Diego Chargers had until Tuesday to turn in their lists of protect­ed players. Other teams were required to turn in those lists in mid-January. 
Meanwhile, the Denver Broncos and other teams continue to court San Francisco offensive coordinator Mike Shanahan, while the Rams reportedly are interested in 49ers defensive coordi­nator Ray Rhodes. 
Shanahan, offered a coaching contract by Broncos owner Pat Bowlen about six hours after the Super· Bowl, was expect­ed to speak again with Bowlen on Tuesday. Rhodes reportedly is a candi­date for the vacant Rams coaching job. 
"With any successful team, other organizations are attracted to members of the team. I'm sure Mike will be pre­sented with some wonderful opportuni­ties," Seifert said. We want to do every­thing we can to keep the group intact." 
Also, Deion Sanders and Ricky Watters are free agents, and Seifert said the process of trying to re-sign them for next year will begin soon. 
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Former Notre Dame running back Ricky Watters is one of many free agents of the Super Bowl champion San Francisco 49ers. He is expected to re-sign. 
Blowout Super Bowl produces low ratings 
By LARRY SIDDONS Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
When it comes to television ratings, the Super Bowl means super numbers. So, while the San Francisco 49ers' lop­sided victory over the San Diego Chargers had one of the smallest audi­ences in the game's history, it still pro­duced the number advertisers love -,­the big 40. 
Sunday's game on ABC drew a 41.3 rating and a 63 share, according to fig­ures released Tuesday by A.C. Nielsen Media Research. Of the 29 Super Bowls, only seven have had lower ratings, and five of those were in its first five years, from 1967-71. 
But there are numbers and then there are NUMBERS. Figure that each rating point represents 954.~00 television households, and ABC estimated that the audience for the 49ers' 49-23 victory totaled 121 million people, about a mil­lion more than expected. 
"Obviously, the game was not that competitive," said Andy Dallas, an ABC Sports spokesman. "But that is still a strong number." 
Strong for the network, which carried its first Super Bowl since 1991, and strong for the advertisers, who paid a record $1.02 million for each 30-second commercial. If the game was one.:sided, analysts said, the advertisers still got their money's worth. 
"The Super Bowl is not about a foot­ball game. It's about what America does on a particular Sunday in January," said Gerry Dominus, of the J. Walter Thompson ad agency. "For an advertis­er, there is no single place like it." 
The rating, a percentage of TV house­holds watching a program, and the share, the percentage of sets in use tuned in, were both the lowest since 1992 and down considerably from the past two years. Dallas-Buffalo on NBC drew 45.1 rating and a 66 share in 1993, and 45.4-66 in '94. 
But the latest figures maintained the Super Bowl's record of big, big num­bers. Since 1972, the pro football championship telecast has drawn a rat­ing of 40 or better every year but once, a 39.0-63 in 1990. Like middle age, 4-0 means plenty when you're selling beer, cars or tortilla chips. It means that prac­tically half the natiorf'l.s watching. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day; including all spaces. 
LOST: a glass beaded charm 
NOTICES 
necklace. It has black and red 
beads with a golden lion as the **CAMPUS BANDS/MUSICIANS** charm. It was a special gift to me. 
Paul x4-3311 The Student Union Board is now accepting demo tapes to be consid-
WANTED
ered for the 1995 campus CD. Original music only, 1 song per demo please. Turn tape and short Spring Break! Bahamas Party bio into SUB, second floor Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12 LaFortune, in "campus CD" box by Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great February 17. Questions? Call Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Ryan at 288-3952 or Steve at 232 Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights 4959. Air & Hotel From $429! Spring 
Break Travel1-800-678-6386 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­206-634-0468 ext. C55842 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1-800-786-8373 
LOSE WEIGHT FOR SPRING BREAK! No diets/drugs/exercise! Fabulous Herbal Tablets: guaran­teed results! Kelly (800)209-2150 
1992 Subaru wagon REDUCED $6500 low mileage good, clean condition accessorized 634-4527 
SELLING POWER-TRANSLATOR FOR DOS SOFTWARE, ENG­SPANISH, BRAND NEW, 130, 271-19-98. 

WANTED : 6 Tickets to Tom Petty SMC-ND 1995 SUMMER PRO­DESPERATE!!!!! Please Call GRAMS IN LONDON AND ROME. Mary Jane@ 271-0224 TRAVEL IN IRE, SCOT, ENG, 
FRANCE, GER, SWITZ, & ITALY. Kentucky tix NEEDED COURSES IN BUEC, ED, HIST. $$Call Brent x1761 ITALIAN. INFO-ORG MEETING 
FEB.6, AT 6:30PM CARROLL 

HALL-SMC.CALL PROF. A.A. 2 Petty-loving girls desperately BLACK 284-4460 seeking tickets. Willing to pay big (OFC) OR 272-3726 (HOME) money! Call x-3698 and ask for Mary Jane. 
Need 3 Marquette GA's Desperately seeking ride to Padre Call Doug 4-4471 for Spring Break. Will split gas and 
tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at 

**CAMPUS CD 1995***********  84 DODGE OMNI, RUNNING  PERSONAL  x2702.  
Math Tutoring Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN­ WELL, GOOD CONDITION, 600  
234-1107 PANAMA CliY OCEANVIEW  AGE PAINTING CREWS,  271-19-98  Gentlemen,  
ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291  THROUGHOUT INDIANA. FOR  David Mamet's  
ANIMAL HOUSE WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa  SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED  AMERICAN BUFFALO  We live in a world that has jokes  
Thurs 8/1030 Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED,  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  Directed by Stephen Susco  and those jokes have to be told by  
Montgomery Theatre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU­ at $85,900. First Floor location.  February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm  men with balls.  
$159! Key West $2291 Daytona  DENT.  Finished basement with full lavato- Washington Hall Mainstage  Who's gonna do it, you, YOU?  
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­ ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths  Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at  I have a greater responsibility than  
Pandora's Books 233-2342 800-678-6386  SUMMER JOBS  on ground level. lease back to  the LaFortune Information Desk  you can possibly fathom.  
ND ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat  Coed summer camp in Minnesota  owner through May, 1995.  Produced by the Notre Dame  You weep for the offended and  
9-3 sundays  seeks individuals to work as cabin  Call (616)'946-0700.  Student Players  curse the Revue:  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  & activity counselors. Director from  •• note : play contains hars~ pro- you have that luxury.  
Term Papers typed Oceanview Room with a Kitchen  Camp Foley will be at SMC LeMans  386 SX-20, 2mb ram, 85mb hd, 3.5  fanity and some violenVadult  You have the luxury of not knowing  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing $1291 Walk to best bars! Includes  212195 and UNO O'Hara Lounge,  and 5.25 hd drives, keyboard,  themes  what I know-that our comedy,  
273-4824 Free Discount Card which will save  LaFortune 213/95 both days from  mouse, original software and manu­ while tragic. probably saves lives.  
you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800­ 9am-3pm. Stop by my table to get  als, SVGA monitor. $475 obo. Two  And the Revue's existence, while  
Pick Up The $20,000 Check in this 678-6386  information & application.  4x9 SIMMs, $125 ea. obo. 271­ ROSES ARE RED  grotesque and incomprehensible to  
year's campus telephone directory.  5687  VIOLETS ARE BLUE  you, saves lives.  
The yellow pages are reinvented  THE OBSERVER HAS A  You don't want to know if we were  
and more fun than ever before! Pick  Need ride to Chicago area 213.  Health club membership for sale.  SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU  funny because deep down in places  
up your directory at your Residence RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  *Rudy 233-4008  Includes Tae Kwon Do lessons,  you don't talk about at staff  
Hall or Student Activities in GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  pool, weight room, spa and  VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  meetings. you want us in the  
LaFortune Student Union if you WHILE BUILDING YOUR have not already received one, and RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  FOR RENT  TANNING BEDS. Make offer. Call Randy 272-0415  approaching and now is the time to place a classified ad for your valen­ Revue-you need us in the Revue. We use words like Loud, Foul, and  
you could be loaded this spring! (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD- tine. All Valentine's Day ads will  Offensive. We use these words as  
UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS  . TICKETS  appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's classified section of The Observer  the backbone of a life spent joking-you use them as a lecture.  
FRI-SAT 8/1030 VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­ 232-2595  on Tuesday, February 14.  I have neither the time, nor the  
Cushing Auditorium DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­ Need Marquette GA's  inclination to explain myself to men  
ILOST & FOUND I 265-7691  Oakhill Condo for RENT for the 1995-1996 school year.  Call Chris x3767 Will trade 2 Fri KEENAN REVIEW  You may place your classified Monday through Friday from Sam to 3pm. We are located on the third  who rise and sleep inder the good reputation of the Revue that I have provided, and then question the  
SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for  For information call: 273-9438.  tix for Sat Call Kevin x1488  floor of Lafortune. Place your ad  manner in which I have provided it  

LOST: 2 SPECIAL RINGS  many positions (including summer).  now and beat the rush!  I would rather you just said thank  
On Friday, Jan 27 !lost two rings.  Up to $2,000+ In salary & benefits  1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  Help! I need 2 pairs of GAs for the  you, and went on your way. Or  
One Notre Dame class ring with the  (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal  CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW & NEXT  UK game. $15-$25/ticket  Sound Techs Needed!  maybe you could tell a real joke and  
crest and diamond, inscribed KDJ  discounts). Ski!Snowboard instruc- FALL GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ Call Wade x3883  Student Activities is now hiring  make someone laugh.  
'94 and one anniversary band with  tors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet  6551  sound techs. Applications  Either way, I don't give a damn  
about seven diamonds. If found or  staff, + other positions. For more  KEENAN REVUE TIX  available In the Student Activities  ·what you think the Revue should  
have any Info call Kenya x4-3711. VERY SENTIMENTAL REWARD.  information call:(206)634-0469 ext.V55842  FOR SALE  Want to trade 2 FRI tlx for 2 SAT tix. Call John at x0858.  Office, 315 LaFortune. Deadline Friday, February 3.  bel  
L__________________________________________________________________________________________________  

.----------------~~ ~. 
Wednesday, February I, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS ­Late-Night Olympics is an all­night sports extravaganza of competing Notre Dame and St. Mary's residence halls. All pro­ceeds raised from this event are donated to the St. Joseph County chapter of the Special Olympics. The date is February 
3. For the name of your hall representative, call HecSports at 1-6100. 
CHOSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS -Rentals are avail­able to students, faculty, and !'ltaff. Bents skis, boots, and poles. No reservations neces­sary. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:-30 on Friday and Sunday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday.' For rates and more info call the Golf Shop at 1-6425 ofHecSports at 1-6100. 
BENGAL BOUTS -Training occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the JACC. Anyone interested should please contact Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. 
CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE -The Climbing Wall will be open for use beginning Sunday, January 22. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and anyone inter­ested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
FELLOWSHIP OF CHRISTIAN ATHLETES-will be having a meeting on Thursday, February 2 in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune at 7:30 pm. For more rnformation, contact Jaime Lee, Matt Althoff, or Ken Milani. 
ND RUGBY CLUB -Spring practice begins Monday, February 6th at 10:30 and on Wednesday the 8th at 9:30. If you have any questions call Brendan at 234-8276 or Mike at 4-2289. 
CLIMBING WALL -There will be a climbing wall orientation session Sunday, February 5th, at 12:30 pm in the Rock. Call RecSports at 1-6100 to register. Space is limited. 
-
~-,-----.,,--:,-:,c-:,. "~-.--.-~--:-~-:-c.,..,.-,-----......~---­
page II 
• Ct:n.lEGE BASKHBAIJ. 

Purdue prevails 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Cuonzo Martin scored 23 points Tuesday night, and near­perfect free throw shooting car­ried Purdue to a 76-66 victory over Indiana. 
The Boilermakers hit 29 of 31 free throws, including 12 with­out a miss by Martin. 
Purdue (15-5, 6-2 Big Ten), which trailed only once, took a nine-point lead early in the sec­ond half. 
After Roy Hairston's missed free throw snapped a string of 20 straight by Purdue, Indiana pulled to 53-51 on a basket by Steve Hart and a 3-pointer by Brian Evans. 
Indiana (12-8, 4-4) still trailed by only two before a basket by Martin and two free throws by Brandon Brantley 
Come & See the New CJ's! 


started a 12-3 run that put the game out of reach. The Boilermakers' biggest lead was 73-60 after two free throws apiece by Martin and Brantley with just over two minutes to go. 
The only other missed free throw by Purdue was by Matt Waddell with 16 seconds left. He hit one of two foul shots to give the Boilermakers a 76-64 lead, then Indiana's Steve Hart got the final basket. 
Alan Henderson led Indiana with 23 points and 15 re­bounds. 
Purdue shot only 31 percent from the field in the first half, but was perfect on 18 free throws to take a five-point lead at intermission. 
The Boilermakers' biggest lead in the opening period was 
20-13 on a  3-point basket by  
Hairston.  
Indiana  outscored  the  

Boilermakers 10-2 over the next five minutes, however, and took its only lead of the game, 23-22, on a rebound basket by freshman Charlie Miller. 
Purdue regained the lead sec­onds later on a 3-pointer by Waddell, then Martin hit six of the Boilermakers' 10 straight free throws in the next three minutes. 
Miller brought the Hoosiers within three with under a minute to go, but a rebound basket by Hairston with one second left gave Purdue a 37­32 lead at the half. 

David Mamet's American Buffalo Directed by Stephen Susco February 2-4, 1995 Washington Hall Mainstage 8:10pm . $3.00 Reserved Seating Ttckets on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk Produced ~y the Notre Dame Student Players Produced by speetal arrangement with Samuel French, Inc. •• NOTE : pl•y con~ins prof•nity •nd horsh langu•g•  


Foraboutadollaraday,·
bothwill giveyoutqe poweryou needto 
surv1ve tlus semester. 

Only $33.00 a month.* 
Macintash Perf=' 636CD 


8MB RAM/250MB hard drit~, CD-ROAI drive1 14" color numikit; keyboard, mouse and aU the softwareyoure/ikely /() need 

conducive to saving money. In fact, they can leave you broke. But you can still buy the computer you want and not worry about payments until long after the decorations are down. The Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan. The solution -
Ap 1 
that gives you the power every student needs. The power to be your bese 
p1e­

PAY NOTHING FOR 90 DAYS 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pin 
•DeferredAfrJ1e Computer Loan offer expires February 17, 1995. No payment ofinterest or principal will he rr!IJUiredfor 90 days. (Some resellers may rr!IJUirr! adeposit to hold merchandise u•hi/e loan is being approtm) Interest aa:ruing during this 90-daypericd will be added ro . principal, andthe principal amount, as so increased, willthereajler bear interest which will be induded in the repayment schedule. 'MonJhly payment is an estimate based on apurchase price of$1,93152, which indudes 85% sales lax, for the Macinlash Performa 636CD system shown ahotltl. lnduding loanfees, /he lollll loan amomll is $2,044.00, which resulls In a monthb• payment obligallon of13350. '!be monlhly payment alxx~t~ was calctJ/aM using an estimate ofsales lax in San Francisco. IfIhe appliruble sales lax is 8.75% (Chicago} or 7.0% (Philadelphia}, the monthb• payment would be $3358 or $33.o4, respectively. Computer system prices, loan amounts andsales taxss may vary. See your aulhorlzed APPfe Campus Reseller or represenllllil'llfor current system prices, loan and lax amounts. /.oaiiS are for a minimum of$1,000 to a maximum of$10,000. You may lllke out more/han one loan, but/he lollll ofallloaiiS cannoti'XW!d $10,000 annually. A55% loan orlgtnalion100 will be atHilto the requested loan amount. The interest rate is 11ariable, based on the commercialpaper rate plus 535%. For the month ofNovember, 1994, the interest rate was 10.85% and the Annual Percentage Rate was 12.44%. B·year loan term with no prepayment penalty. '/be numtlily payment andthe annualpercentage rate shoun assumes the 90-day deferment ofprincipal and interest described above and no other deferment ofprincipal or interest. Students may defer principal payments up lo 4years, or until graduation. /Jeformenlu>ill changeyour monthly payments. '!be AMJ~e Computer loan Is subject ro credit approval. A/J{Jie Computer Loan and 90-Day Dfjmed ~)men/ Plan offers ami/able only to qualifying students, faculty and sillif. Offers at·ailable only from ApfJie or an authorizedApfJ/e Campus Resel/er or I"'!{Jrr!Sen/alive. ~ 1994 A/J{1Ie Computer, Inc. AU rights resen.oed. A/J[Jie, the APPle logo, Macintosh, Perfomltl and "The power /o be your best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Mac is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. 
-~----:-~· :-;--,.----. 
The Observer • SPORTS page 12 

_.... 
Photo courtesy of Big East Husky guard Doron Scheffer was solid on the perimeter as Jim Calhou's Big East-leading Huskies rolled in league play. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
fSK 

~,
16 
LSAT~ •MCAT 
If you took 
Take a 2 112-or 3-hour test, proctored like the real thing. 
Receive. puter analplt of your
·~---· 
test-taking rengths anlf •tlmaenea. Get str~es from Ka-teachers 
that wtn-hdp you ace tile real exam. Don't m~ out on this cost-free, rlskfree opportunity.
I 
Calli 1-800-KAP·TEST 
i 
to ..-rYe.~our seat today! 

CamFs at Notre Dame 
I
rdaV, February 4, 1995 
' 
i 
KAPLAN 
• ColLEGE BASKHBAU 

UConn upends Miami, 82-57 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Ray Allen made a school­record eight 3-pointers and fourth-ranked Connecticut bounced back from its first loss of the season with an 82-57 victory over Miami on Tuesday night. 
Allen was 8-for-12 from long range and finished with 25 points for the Huskies, who set a school-record with 13 bas­
MIAMI (8-8) 

Fraser 2-10 1-1 5, Edwards 3-9 2-5 10, Popa 4-8 6-6 14, Norris 1­6 0-0 2, Dunn 4-12 0-0 9, Frazier 4-14 0-1 9, Rich 1-8 0-0 2, Pearson 2-3 0-0 4, Rosa 1-3 0-0 2. Totals 22-73 9-13 57. CONNECTICUT (16-1} 
Marshall 5-9 4-4 16, Allen 8-14 1-2 25, Knight 4-4 0-0 8, Sheffer 3-8 0-1 7, Ollie 5-8 2-2 12, Fair 5­11 0-0 12, King 1-5 0-0 2, Willingham 0-3 0-0 0, Cohen­Mintz 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 31-63 7-9 82. 
Halftime-Connecticut 42, Miami 25. 3-Point goals­Miami 4-24 (Edwards 2-6, Dunn 1-3, Frazier 1-9, Fraser 0-1, Rosa 0-1, Norris 0-4), Connecticut 13­26 (Allen 8-12, Marshall 2-3, Fair 2-8, Sheffer 1-3). Fouled out­None. Rebounds-Miami 36 (Edwards 7), Connecticut 50 (Marshall, Knight 8). Assists­Miami 14 (Norris 5), Connecticut 22 (Ollie 8). Total fouls-Miami 12, Connecticut 15. A-16,294. 
kets from beyond the arc. The Huskies (16-1, 9-0), who 
were 3-for-18 from long range in an 88-59 loss to Kansas on Saturday, were 13-for-36 on 3­pointers against Miami. 
UConn extended its home 


winning streak to 26 and won its 14th straight regular-season 

Welcomes
Big East game, matching the record set by St. John's in 1984-85. 
The Hurricanes (8-8, 3-6) 

Partners
stayed in the game for about 10 minutes before the Huskies broke it open with their long­range shooting. 

Insurance 
After Constantin Popa's layup pulled Miami to 17-16, UConn 

Starting February lsr, 1995
outscored the Hurricanes 25­11 the rest of the half. The Huskies started the run with 3­

We have 9 convenient 
pointers by Allen and Brian Fair. Donny Marshall scored 10 

Michiana locations! 
points during the spurt, and Doron Sheffer's 3-pointer gave the Huskies a 42-25 halftime 

Please call 
lead. Allen opened the second half with his fourth 3-pointer, and it 

1-800-WALGREENS 
was never a contest after that. 

to find the store nearest you! 
Want to Publish? 
Humanitas 
The College of Arts and Letters Undergraduate Journal 
is seeking 
INTERESTING ESSAYS for the annual edition of the journal and INTERESTED STUDENTS for this year's staff. 
INTERESTED STUDENTS should attend a brief informational meeting for the 1995 staff on Friday, February 3, at 3:30p.m. in 115 O'Shaughnessy 
Positions are still available! 
INTERESTING ESSAYS should be: 

• 
from the College of Arts and Letters 

• 
written in English 

• 
less than 30 pages long 

• 
analytically oriented (No creative writing exercises or personal essays.) 


PLEASE SUBMIT 1) Three copies of the essay WITHOUT your nap1e anywhere on them 
2) A cover sheet with: 

• 
yourname 

• 
campus address 

• 
campus phone number 

• 
year in school 

• 
title of the essay 

• 
class for which the essay was written. 


3) Please leave all materials in the Humanitas mailbox located in the English Department Office--356 O'Shaughnessy. 
DEADLINE: Friday, February 17th at 3:30p.m. 

QUESTIONS? Please contact Becky Kroeger (4-3727) or Professor Christopher Fox ( 1-7226) 
Wednesday, February 1, 1995 
Rare feat in hoop game 
Associated Press 
BANGOR, Maine 
Rare in hockey, shorthanded goals are unthinkable in bas­ketball. Or are they? 
Coach Mike Andreasen does­n't think so. His Maine-Augusta team sank 11 baskets in the fi­nal 13:48 to overcome Eastern Maine Technical College's man advantage and rally to a 76-74 victory. 
Women 
continued from page 16 
So far this season, Sophomore center Katryna Gaither is averaging 17.2 points per game while senior Letitia Bowen is the rebound­ing machine with an average of 8 per game. 
"[Marquette] is not as strong as we are on the blocks," McGraw said, "If we can exploit that advantage, I think we'll win." 

-
The Observer/Eric Ruethllng 

Irish post player Carey Poor, who came up big for coach Muffet McGraw, will be looking to duplicate her 
Bring In Thi-. Ad
F-----------~ 
I I 
1 Give From 1 
1 ,.ha Baart And 1 : Save A Life! : 
I Earn I 
:•zooo Cash : 
I I 
for your IDa-saving blood plasma donation II If you present your Nobe Dame I.D. 
I I I I 
"'

I (~004) ~ ~ I 
""""-q;; ::J 

~:., "'------+ I
I 
LaSalle

I I
Licensed By the Federal Government 
Bring In This Ad 
~-----------~ 

-
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 



STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
• PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATI!m I BREAK DAITS /LENGTH Of STAY 
t~sc:n::l~StJNC114.S·E 
TOLL no; ll>if1:>1!W.TION &. RES'A\I'.TIOIU 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 1, 1995 
Irish 

... 
continued from page 16 
"We have a great month ahead of us with many chal­lenges," MacLeod said, "and at the same time, many opportu­nities." 
ONE STEP AT A TIME: Keith· Kurowski is expected to leave the infirmary today. He has been recuperating there from strep throat and the flu after undergoing a 10-hour laser surgery to correct a mild heart disorder last Tuesday. 
There is no timetable for his return to the team. 
"The thing for Keith is to get him back on his feet, back in class and back in a normal rou­tine," MacLeod said. "Then we'll worry about getting him back on the court." 

Recruits 
continued from page 16 
nally articulate why he wanted the youngster so much. Until a letter of intent is signed, a coach is forbidden by the red­taped bureaucracy known as the NCAA from talking in public about that player. 
Today, though, coach Lou Holtz is expected to do some­thing that will probably not be heard for the next four years, praise the incoming players and explain why he has such high expectations. 
This season, the expectations deserve to be very high, at least according to the gurus of the recruiting world. 
More than a few are ranking Notre Dame incoming class as one of, if not the best crop in the land. 
We'll find out tomorrow for sure. That is until we actually see them in Irish uniforms. 
KNIGHT TIME: 
Defensive end Thomas Knight, after missing the fall semester and the 1994 football season due to academic diffi­culties has be re-admitted to tl:ie University. 
After spending the semester away from the -university, Knight was able to get his aca­demic life in order. 
Knight, a 6'4", 260-pound Memphis, TN native, was one of Notre Dame's mainstays on the defensive line during the 1993 season. He started just three games, but got the nod during the key Florida St. victory. 
Expected to contribute heavi­ly to Irish defense, he was declared academically ineligi­ble before the season got underway. 

Recycle The Observer 
-
.­
The Observer/Jake Peters 
Junior guard Keith Kurowski is expected to be released from the infir­mary today after minor heart surgery. His return date to the team is unknown at this time. 
Graduate Internships 
in 
GENEVA 
A key advantage to a career in an international organization. 
A few spaces remain. 
GRANTS AND SCHOLARSHIPS AVAILABLE 
Advanced undergraduates with a 3.0 cum can apply 
Division of International Programs Abroad Syracuse University 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse,~ 13244-4170 
1-800-251-9674 

Check out the new recruits. 
-


New Spring Merchandise Jus/Arrived. 
MBNA America ~ the nation's second-largest lender through bank credit cards, with over 10,000 people serving over 13 million customers-is seeking candidates for its highly selective Management Development Program. Intensive, diverse, and designed to maximize the future success of each participant, the program is an ideal entree into a leadership position with a dynamic and innovative financial 
institution. Please attend our presentation and reception to learn more about MBNA and The Management Development Program: 
Morris Inn, Alumni Room Tuesday, February 7 6:30pm 
MBNA's Notre Dame alumni look forward to meeting you. 
AIBN" 
AMERICA'" 
400 Christiana Road Newark, DE 19713 
MBNA Amenca Is an Equal Employment Opponumty/Afftrmattve Action Employer. MBNA~ and MBNA Amenca'~' are federalt).· regtStered seMce marks of MBNA America Bank. N.A !01995 MBNA America Bank. NA 
CLAD 1-200-95 

Friday, February 10/7:00 p.m./ Joyce ACC 


Wednesday, February l, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
~X&RC\55 
\1\1;'£:,05 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

MY STATUS !\£.PORT I~ 
~ 
A BIT LTGI-\T THIS WEEK ~ 
I)ECAUSE. I'f'\ HAVING AN ~ 
E:-MA.IL FLAME. WAR WITf-\ ~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  32 Ancient city on  58 Mr. Saarinen  
1 Be a party to 5 Breakfast strip 10 "--corn~. as Kansas ...  the Gulf of Aqaba 33 Reduce 34 Muralist Jose  61 Graph start 62 Ecole attender 63 Leave shore 64 Apollo craft  
14 Judd Hirsch  35 Irritable  65 Playwright Rice  
sitcom  37 Give the eye  66 Stepped  
15 Jagged  41 Don Corleone  
16  -me tangere  42 Circa  DOWN  
17 First place 10 Spry 19 Future flower  43 Part 3 of the proverb 47 Birchbark  1 Downed 2 Michael Jackson album  
20 Start of an old  49 One may be  JArchetype  
proverb  high at 5:00  4 A Turner  
23 Gran Paradiso,  50--Plaines, Ill.  5 Grin's partner  
e.g.  51 End of the  6 Historic  
25 Mideast export  proverb  Scottish county  
26 Russian co-op  56 --supra (see  7 Hairdo  
27 Part 2 of the  above)  8 Frogner Park  
proverb  57 Understand  locale  
9 At no time, to  
poets  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Natural .,...,.-:-r=:-r:--r-:-, 11 N e Ison Eddy in 
"Rose Marie" "-+-'"+'~-F-1 12 French avenue -:':-lliof::'-E+::-! 13 Fortuneteller 
-:'+,..-t-'-f""~t-=-t=-i 21 "Goodbye, Columbus" author 
-=-+:~+=-i 22 Lion's pride ~::+.::+=-i 23 Iowa university 
town 24 Singer Lovett 28 Communica­
tions conglomerate -:-:+:::+.-:+.::-l 29 -Downs .:..:.:..L::...J.:..:.;..L..:;..J 30 Took a chair 
WALLY F\E:.FUSES TO ADf'i.IT f'\Y TECHNICAL SUPERIORITY OF\ HIS SIMIAN ANCESTRY. II IS 1''\Y OBLIGATION TO 
0 
31 Rossini's "Count--" 35Spasm 36 Ordinal ender 37 Gram. case 38 Firestone rival 39 Darth Vader's son· 40 Vacation times abroad 41 Opinion 42Wise-owl 43 Garh=mrl 
MIKE PETERS 
BILL WATTERSON 

~·1­
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'f"\ TI-\INKING THIS SOME­
HOW ELEVATES f'\Y RANK 
IN \HE 1-l.ERD AND 1/"\PR.OVE.S MY MATING 


44 Loggers' 52 Business exec tourneys William 
45When some 53 Cheerleader's local news is routine "live" 
54 Watch part 
46 Render 55 Hatching post? impotent 
59 John Wayne's 47 Kind of service "-Lobo" 
48 Stage comment 60 Used 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute) . 

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

-


Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
,. 
.... 

SPRING BREAK IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER! 
WHEN YOU ARE MAKING Y.OUR LIST OF VACATION THINGS, DON'T FORGET THE SUNSCREEN, SUNGLASSES, ENTERTAINMENT SPOTS AND YOUR 0-1-2-3 GUIDELINES! 
0 • 1 • 2· 3 ­ Zero Alcohol. Especially if you're under 21, driving, chemically dependent, on certain medications, or pregnant. One drink per hour, which sets the pace for moderate drinking. A woman may need to allow more time between drinks right before or during her menstrual cycle. No more than two drinks per day, and never daily for women. No more than three drinks per day, and never daily for men.  
Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education  


,.. 



. I 

I 
f 
f 
SPORTS 

page 16 Wednesday, February 1, 1995 

Notre Dame expects to ink top class today 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Sports Editor 
Besides your typical disci­plinary situations and assistant coach transactions, the three months following the bowl game until spring football are usually periods of withdrawal for diehard Notre Dame football fans. 
Today, however, they get a chance for a quick fix. It's the recruiting-news addicts' dream day, also known as National Signing Day. 
This is the day that all the ef­fort put in by the Irish coaching staff, led by recruiting coordi­nator Bob Chmiel, over the past couple of high school football seasons are rewarded. 
The Irish are expected to announce the awarding of 25 scholarships to some of the nation's top high school talent. 
In recent years, the period leading up to this day has evolved into a ridiculous circus of canards, hearsay, and just plain falsehoods. Speculation over who is leaning toward there, who can get into here, and what schools want what players is traded about much in the same way Hollywood gossip gets around. While Hollywood has Entertainment Tonight, re­cruiting fanatics have Scholastic Sports America. People and The National Inquirer have counterparts in Tom Lemming's Prep Report and Bluechip Illustrated. 

But unlike the rumors of Hollywood, the rumors of the recruiting wars have a defini­tive ending. Today is that cli­max. 
Although most recruits have given a "verbal commitment" to the school, or in some cases around the country, schools, of their choice, today, that oral agreement becomes almost like a contract. The prepsters sign their names to a "letter of in­tent" to attend the chosen school. 
What is also significant about this day is that it is the first op­portunity for the coach who re­ceived the good news can fi­
see RECRUITS/ page 14 


lona first step to NIT? 

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 
John MacLeod won't be coerced. He won't turn his attention, even for a moment, to the Notre Dame basket­ball team's post.aeason prospects. 
Each time some curious media mongrel asks about March Madness, he insists that the regular-season schedule keeps the Irish busy enough. 
He's got a point. A couple more slips and they'll be making spring break plans come March. 
But as the Irish enter the final month of the season at 12-7, post­season play remains a strong possi­bility whether or not they feel like talking about it. 
"There are only eight games left. This thing is coming to an end very quickly," MacLeod said. "Every game will be a major test." 
And if Notre Dame passes four or five of those tests, it can probably plan on extra-curricular activity for the first time in three years, likely in the National Invitation Tournament. 
Wins in seven or eight of the remaining games, though very unlikely, would position the Irish for a pos.sible berth in NCAA Tournament. That would include upsets of UCLA (Sunday) and/or Kentucky (Feb. 12). 
The final push for the post-season begins tonight when Notre Dame hosts Iona ( 6-11), the type of team it must defeat. 
Notre Dame's improved record can be attributed somewhat to a lighter­than-usual schedule. The only wins that will impress tournament orga­nizers are a November upset over a 
-
struggling Indiana team and a recent defeat of Xavier. 
"The (NCAA) selection committee is going to see games like this," senior Jason Williams said after the Xavier win, although he added with a touch of realism, "but we may have already cost ourselves a chance at the NCAA Tournament." 
Notre Dame's senior tri-captain Billy Taylor is looking to get back to post-season play. It appears that an NIT bid is very possible. 
Indeed, a loss to a hapless Dayton team probably hurt more than the two upsets helped. 
But although the Big Dance may be a stretch, there's still a strong chance for the Square Dance. As in Madison Square Garden, where the final four of the NIT is held. 
Notre Dame needs to finish at least 16-11 (or possibly 17-12) to earn a berth in the NIT. That would only require wins over Iona, Duquesne, Butler, Fordham and Loyola (Ill), cer­tainly not a given for a team that bas been known to struggle against sub­par competition. 
Upsets of UCLA or Kentucky and a win over heatable but tough Marquette would be icing. 
see IRISH I page14 
lana enters at 6-11, but the Gaels defeated Manhattan by 12. That attracted the attention of the Irish coach John Maclead, whose team lost to Manhattan at home last season. Mikkel Larsen leads lana with 17.6 points per game with Mindagus Timinska adding 15. Despite an off-game against Boston College, Pat Garrity still leads the Irish with a 13.2 average. Ryan Hoover averages 1 0.6. Macleod expects lana to mix its defenses much like Boston College, which bottled up the inside game, but freed the outside 


Irish bring streak to Marquette 
ByKCGOYER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team looks to match their longest win­ning streak of the season tonight as they travel to Marquette University in 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin to face the newly­named Golden Eagles. 
The Irish have won their last four games, and 9 of their last 10. Their longest streak thus far of 5 wins was 


broken by DePaul just McGraw before classes re­sumed for the semester. 
Marquette promises to be a formida­ble opponent, as they advanced to the NCAA tournament last year and have been ranked in the top 20 several times during this season. 
"This is big game for us," McGraw said, "Its a game we really need to win." 
Marquette's scoring attack is most dangerous in its balanced effort. Three of the starters average 15 points per game and a fourth is close behind with 13. 
"We want to slow it down against Marquette," McGraw said, "Try to play a control game." 
Marquette has talent on the perime­ter, hitting an average of seven three pointers per game. Most of those are shot by Lori Goerlitz, who shoots 38% from downtown. 
"They like to run and shoot a lot of three [pointers]," Coach McGraw said, "They're a team which scores a lot of points." 
The Irish advantage is in size and strength of the post game. On Saturday against LaSalle, four Notre Dame for­wards scored double digits. Carey Poor played strong with 11 boards and Rosanne Bohman came off the bench to score 10 points. 
see WOMEN/ page 13 


of note...
HUSKIES CRUISE 
Super sophomore Ray Allen led UConn as 
For in-depth coverage
they rebounded from a loss to Kansas to maul 
of national signing day, see 
Miami. 
tomorrow's Observer 
See page 12 



