
Thursday, March 30, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 112 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Miller cleared of check-fraud charges 
McAlister presented the re­peared on an airline ticket that April, 1994, Notre Dame secu­Odom, McAlister agree to drop vamped charges to a grand was paid for with a hot check. rity found stolen television jury, which took action to halt The receiver said he was un­equipment from an off-campusindictment of former receiver the case, declaring a no-bill be­aware that the check was ille­residence, supposedly that of 
cause there was not enough gal. the Notre Dame receiver. Offi­By MIKE NORBUT said. "I was disappointed when probable cause. The case was "I was at school when every­cials soon dropped him as a S~orts Editor my name and the university's summarily dismissed. thing took place," Miller contin­suspect. 
was spread all over the news, "I think in between the case's ued. "All they had against me "Michael is like any person of 
Former Notre Dame wide re­so now I'm glad that every­first dismissal and when it was was that plane ticket, which notoriety," Odom continued. ceiver Michael Miller was thing's 
reissued, they looked at the was bought by someone else." "He can't live like a normal cleared Tuesday of all charges cleared up." facts and realized they didn't Arrested with Miller were person. He has to look out for related to a November 9, 1994 Charges have a case against Michael," Ron Chaney and Jordon people trying to take advantage arrest for involvement in an were dropped Odom said. "The presentation Williams, classmates of the of him." organized criminal activity. when Miller's of the second case was pretty Irish football star at Willow Miller's concentrations now 
Miller, who was dismissed attorney, weak." Ridge High School in Sugar­lie in trying to get back into from the University of Notre Wendell Miller was originally arrested land, Texas. Charges against Notre Dame, where he needs Dame at the time of the arrest, Odom, and along with two former high these men have not been only 30 credit hours to receive was indicted for taking part in a Fort Bend school classmates after al­dropped, and they are sched­his degree. fraudulent check-writing County legedly purchasing over uled to appear in court April "Basically, I was suspendedscheme. District $50,000 worth of merchandise 10. from school for nothing," Miller 
"I just want everyone to know Attorney Jim McAlister agreed and airline tickets with stolen It is not the first time that said. "I've tried contacting the that I didn't have any involve­to have the original indictment checks. His involvement was Miller has been an initial sus­ment in it whatsoever, like squashed because of its vague suspected when his name ap-pect in a police investigation. In 
see MILLER/ page 4what I said at the time," Miller wording. 

Estrada: role models needed 
newspaper, the image you often magazine, you see en­Print mogul see of Hispanics or other trepreneurs. [You see that] it is 
minorities is a very negative not a contradiction to be suc­says minorities one," said Estrada. However cessful and Hispanic," he said. 
he did say that, "It was more Estrada encouraged the mi­
pronounced 10 years ago than nority students in attendance to
ill-represented 
it is now." become a part of the media. By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN "The media should focus on "The only way to change the News Writer not just the bad, but the good media is to control the media," 
as well," Estrada said. he said. "People in the media 
The media have not been able However, he qualified that ought to be cognizant of the ef­to provide positive role models statement by saying that, "I fect that they are having. You for the Latino and minority don't mean to say that we are see all sorts of sensationalist communities. said Alfredo pretending that there are no reports of violence and that Estrada, editor and publisher of problems in the Hispanic com­again reflects the negative im­
Hispanic magazine. munity." ages."
Speaking yesterday in the Estrada's desire to portray a Estrada is a graduate of Har­llesburgh Library Auditorium, more accurate image of vard University, and received Estrada said the media have a Hispanics was a major force in his law degree from Universityresponsibility to destroy nega­his decision to start Hispanic . of Texas. He practiced law in tive stereotypes of minorities. "When you watch CNN, you New York City and Washington
"When you turn on your tele­see somebody shooting some­D.C. before returning to Texas vision set, or pick up your body else, but in Hispanic and starting the magazine. 


Student testifies in Duran trial 
clear intention to kill President anyone about the incident, re­
Wilson recounts 
Clinton. Though Wilson has gardless. "I didn't see any of it returned to Saint Mary's, the happen," she noted. "I didn'tWhite House trial continues this week in think I would have any impor­
Washington D.C. tant information."shooting Around 2:30 p.m. on Oct. 29, But after the FBI in South 
Wilson and Esti Mutidjo, also a Bend saw the Nov. 7 issue of By DIANA LANZILLOTTA Saint Mary's student, walked The Observer, which featured a News Writer on Pennsylvania Avenue to take story about Wilson's encounter 
photos of the White House. with Duran, they contacted the 
While on October break last They took a picture, though a Secret Service. Before semester in Washington D.C., man wearing a tan trench coat Christmas break, the Secret Saint Mary's senior Tanya stood in the frame of their shot. Service contacted Wilson by Wilson met gunman Francisco Looking for someone to take phone and came to South Bend Martin Duran minutes before their picture in front of the to interview her. he allegedly fired 30 shots at White House, Wilson asked the "I thought that would be the the White House. Just after man to take their picture. end of it," remembers Wilson. Spring Break, Wilson returned According to Wilson, the man However, the first week Wil­to the nation's capital to testify agreed. son returned to Saint Mary's in the district court's trial "He snapped our picture and after the Christmas holiday, FBI regarding the Oct. 29 incident. asked us questions like where agents visited her on campus to 
Duran, 26, of Colorado we were from and what sites formally deliver a subpoena is­Springs. is charged with we had seen." she said. "He sued for the Duran trial. Ac­attempted murder of the returned the camera to me and cording to Wilson's account to President, use of a deadly told us to have a good day. We the Secret Service, she was the weapon to assault four Secret told him to have a good day last person to speak to Duran Service agents, four other too." before he opened lire. weapons violations, and de­Wilson and Mutidjo then de­Wilson was flown to Wash­struction of Federal property. parted for the southwest side of ington D.C. on Mar. 21. She Duran has pleaded insanity as the White House where mo­spent her first night there being his public defender argues that ments later, they heard the prepped for court by district severe mental illness caused shots allegedly fired from attorneys. There she met other Duran not to understand the Duran's semi-automatic witnesses including the woman consequences of his actions. weapon. Later that night they who soid Duran the clip for his 
On Mar. 22, Wilson, one of saw Duran's picture on televi­gun, the woman who sold him over 70 witnesses, served as a sion and recognized the man the trench coat he wore than character witness for the pros­who had taken their picture day, and another woman who ecution which seeks to prove moments before the commotion Duran had asked out on a date Duran's sanity, hatred of the earlier that day. central government, and his Wilson says she didn't talk to see TRIAL/ page 4 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, March 30, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Generation 
X reality 
check 

Mid-Twenties Breakdown: A period of Kim Massman mental collapse occur-Accem Copy Editor 
ring in one's twenties. often caused by the inability to function out­side ofschool or structured environments cou­pled with a realization ofone's essential aloneness in the world. Often marks the induction into the ritual ofpharmaceutical usage. 
McJob: A low-pay. low-prestige. low-dignity. low benefit, no-future job in the service sector. Frequently considered a satisfying career choice by people who have never held one. 
-Douglas Copeland. Generation X 

The past few months. well, years, of my life have been spent worrying about what's going to happen to me come May 20. One can guess by the quotes chosen from my trusty Bible-for-the-'90s that I anticipate such a breakdown, and I doubt that my McJob prob­ably will be as fulfilling as formerly hoped. 
I have discussed my life status with my peers. After some observations, I have real­ized that my attitude is rather positive com­pared to my friends'. For example, a friend of mine who attends college in California con­stantly sends me e-mails with titles like "Remember the Alamo," "S.O.S." and "This is the spring of my discontent". The girl is totally freaking out. I shared her intensity for quite some time. Yet, on a recent trip to the mecca of American culture, my outlook changed. 
We were in Key West, Florida playing the part of "partyin' Spring Breakers" for too long. My traveling companions and I decided to leave early in search of new surroundings. We laid out the map and there it was­Graceland. The quest had begun. Only 22 hours and we would be smack dab in the mid­dle of where it all started: Memphis, Tennessee. 
22 hours in a car can teach a person a lot ­especially when you're with people who you just met days before, as in my case. We lis­tened to Prince and the Reality Bites sound­track , smoked Marlboros, and had intelligent conversations about the philosophies of Taoism and Claude Levi Strauss. We also passed around my trusty-coffee stain-laden copy of Copeland's book, subtitled "Tales for an Accelerated Culture". Accelerated Culture. Think about that one for a moment. 
One of my traveling companions remarked, 

"Do you think we're part of Generation X? 
The inside cover says it's those born in the 
late '60s". Of which my response was "Of 
course, don't you feel like one, and if not, 
NOW what are we going to do? Latch on to 
the MTV/ Dunkaroos generation below us? 
No way..." 
The fact of the matter is that I have begun 
to wean myself on this ideal, playing the part 
of my target audience in order to have a 
scapegoat for my lack of "real job" as my par­
ents would claim. Members of our genera­
tion aren't supposed to have all that their par­
ents had, and it's okay. I am doing exactly 
what is expected of me: absolutely nothing. 
Well, after coming to this earth shattering 
Conclusion, I took a shot of Nyquil and rested 
my pillow on the oh-so-comfy vibrating win­
dow to catch some z's before the enlighten­
ment. .. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
E[han Hayward  Brian Blank  
Morgan Bracken  Viewpoint  
Sports  Michael O'Hara  
Tom Schlid[  Accent  
Abby May  Tom Johannesen  
Production  Lab Tech  
Hea[her Gibson  Mike Hungeling  

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Diplomacy Best Hope for Release of Americans 

oon ew pton, Despite calls by Crossing the border Iowa, -were haggard but
:-l!l!IIIEIIEI The two Americans being held by Iraq say they went
Republican presidential aspirants for more saber­rattling, outside analysts 1 say quiet diplomacy is the ' best hope for winning the ! release of two Americans captured by Iraq. 
Clinton administration officials, goaded by GOP t=:;;:;~~~== presidential candidates Pat 
Buchanan and Sen. Richard Lugar of Indiana, publicly •11 1raq·Kuwait border say they haven't ruled out 0 Camp Khor military action. But several e Border crossing 
prospect of success. Source: United Nations 
The administration has made clear that for the time be­ing at least it is counting on diplomatic pressure and is trying to enlist the aid of Russia, France, Turkey and other countries that want to help Iraq emerge from its pariah status. Meanwhile, U.S. officials are trying to avoid public diatribes that could increase the value of the captives in the mind of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein. 
CNN reported the two captives -civilian aircraft me­chanics David Daliberti of Jacksonville, Fla., and William 
in good health on

astray while going to visit friends at Camp Khor. A 
wrong turn led them to the border crossing. United Wednesday. They insisted to 
Nations guards waved them through, mistaking them CNN that they were in U.N.­
lor their own personnel. They drove as far as the U.N. 
marked territory when they

headquarters and were redirected to the border. When 
they returned, they were stopped by Iraqi police and were arrested while on 
arrested. their way to visit friends. .....,_,;:;w------,-------.,--------. The behind-the-scenes diplomacy is aimed at convincing Iraq that it has "absolutely nothing to gain by holding these Americans," said a, State Department official who spoke on condition of 
anonymity.

analysts dismissed that as a e Umm Qasr. United Nations headquarters farfetched course with scant L------,-,--,-----,-,-,---,--------------"'=="'---.::___ ___: With a trade embargo 
AP already in place on all but humanitarian goods, the United States has little in the way of economic options against Sad dam. 
But that situation could work in the U.S. favor, because Iraq is desperate to get the embargo lifted, said Brent Scowcroft, who was President Bush's national security adviser. 
"We don't have any more leverage," he said. "The only thing we can try to do is make it look like he's pushing the end of the embargo further away." 
Daytime Emmy nominees announced 
NEW YORK 
After a year off when she wasn't even nominated, let the guessing game resume: Will this be Susan Lucci's year to win an Emmy? Conspicuously overlooked last year, the "All My Children" star is back among the nom­inees announced today for the 22nd Annual Daytime Emmy Awards. It is her 15th nomination. Fourteen losses have gone before. Along with Lucci (for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series), the ABC soap landed 13 other nominations. That tied "All My Children" with ABC's "General Hospital" and CBS' "Guiding Light" for most nominations among all daytime programs. PBS' "Sesame Street" was next, with 11. "The Young and the Restless" got nine, "As the World Turns" got 8, and the children's series "Beakman's World" got 7. All are on CBS. "One Life to Live" (ABC), "Reading Rainbow" (PBS), "Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?" (PBS), and "The Writing On the Wall (CBS School break Special)" all captured six nominations. Overall, CBS led with 59 nomi­nations; syndicates collected 4 7 nominations; ABC had 44; PBS, 40; NBC, 19; and the Fox network scored 14. 
Vote dependent on judge's ruling 
NEW YORK 
Major league baseball players voted today to end their 7 1/2-month strike if a judge issues an injunction restor­ing salary arbitration and free agent bidding. U.S. District Judge Sonia Sotomayor has scheduled a Friday hearing on the National Labor Relations Board's request for an preliminary injunction. There's no indication when she will rule.The players' vote came as the union pre­pared to respond to the owners' latest offer. Union head Donald Fehr, who met with acting commissioner Bud Selig for 90 minutes Tuesday, said talks were expected to resume this week. If players end the strike, owners may try to lock them out. But even hard-line owners don't know if they can get the required 21 votes from among the 28 teams, and management officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said they doubted owners would lock out the regular players. With the season scheduled to start in four days with replacement players, it appeared that a final decision to begin play wouldn't be made until the weekend. Selig won't say whether opening day could be pushed back, but some teams began plan­ning for an extra three weeks of spring training. 


• INDIANA WEATHER 
Thursday, March 30 
Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and 
OHIO 

Transportation strikers vow defiance 
PHILADELPHIA 

Some 350,000 Philadelphians had to walk, ride bicy­cles, thumb rides, carpool or hail a cab during Day 2 of the walkout by 5,200 drivers, motormen, operators and maintenance employees of the Southeastern Pennsylva­nia Transportation Authority. Traffic was jammed on In­terstate 95 and area bridges. Leaders of Transport Workers Union Local 234 vowed Wednesday to stay off the job as long as it takes to win wage concessions from SEPTA. Nearly 1,000 pickets held a boisterous rally in the shadow of the silent Market-Frankford elevated train line in northeastern Philadelphia. "We are not greedy, but we want what it takes to maintain our standard of living," said Harry Lombardo, local president. "To retire with dignity." The union is seeking a 3 percent raise in each of three years, along with improvements in pen­sions, sick pay and life insurance. Transit officials say they are strapped by declining ridership and reduced government subsidies. They offered a 7 percent raise over three years. Base pay for the transit workers ranges from $22,000 to $33,500. 
Brown discriminates against females 
PROVIDENCE 

Brown University discriminates against female athletes because far fewer women than men participate in college sports, a judge ruled Wednesday in a decision that could force schools nationwide to revamp athletic programs. 
U.S. District Judge Raymond Pettine gave Brown 120 days to come up with a plan to comply with Title IX. the 1972 federal law prohibiting sex discrimination at schools that receive federal money. Pettine's ruling came in a 1992 lawsuit filed by female athletes at the Ivy League school, who claimed Brown had violated the Title IX requirement that schools offer equal athletic opportu­nities to men and women. University officials said they will appeal. "This is a major victory for women across the country," said Lynette Labinger, lead attorney for the female athletes. "This ruling should serve as a wake-up call to universities around the country that they better start complying with the law or face a court order to do so." During the trial last December, Brown lawyer Walter Connolly had warned that if the school lost, uni­versities across the country would be forced to cut men's athletic teams. 
Tara Grieshop  
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during c:xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved.  V"1a Assoclsted Press Graph/csNet  Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy C1995 Accu·Weather, Inc.  

Atlanta  62  49  Dallas  58 46  New Orleans  62 57  
Baltimore  58  36  Denver  45  20  New York  56 40  
Boston  50  38  Los Angeles  75 45  Philadelphia  59 35  
Chicago  44  28  Miami  85  71  Phoenix  80  50  
Columbus  47  29  Minneapolis  44  22  St. Louis  50  35  
. ....... '  

Thursday, March 30, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Notre Dame Award bestowed on Suzman 
Special to The Observer 
The 1994 Notre Dame Award for international humanitarian service will be conferred on llelen Suzman, former member of the South African Parliament and outspoken opponent of her nation's now abolished apartheid system, during a cer­emony Wednesday, April 5 at 
7:30 p.m., in Stepan Center. Both the ceremony and a fol­lowing reception are open to the public. 
Notre Dame's president, Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., will preside at the event, which will include a previously unseen fif­teen minute videotaped inter­view with Suzman's good friend, South African president Nelson Mandela. The interview was taped in Copenhagen, Denmark, during the recently concluded United Nations World Summit for Social Development. The ceremony will also include performances by the Notre Dame Folk Choir and the Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble. 
A member of the South 
African Parliament from 1953 until her retirement in 1989, Suzman, representing the Pro­gressive Party, was the sole anti-apartheid member of that body from 1961-74. 
In addition to her work in parliament, Suzman became internationally known as an ad­vocate for South Africa's nu­merous political prisoners. It was in this capacity that she first met Nelson Mandela in 1967. The two remain close friends, and he has written a glowing introduction to her memoirs, "In No Uncertain Terms". 
The Notre Dame award was established in 1992 to honor persons "within and without the Catholic Church, citizens of every nation, whose religious faith has quickened learning and whose deeds give witness to God's kingdom among us." The award has been given pre­viously to Mother Teresa; for­mer President Jimmy Carter; and Jean Vanier, founder of the international l'Arche communi­ties for the mentally handi­capped. 

With Graduation around the corner, be sure to stop by 
GANTOS 
GLAMOUR TO GO! 
10°/o Off All Dresses, Dressy Jewelry, & Accessories March 30 -April 2 Join us Saturday for informal modeling, drawing for free $50 gift certificate and many other fabulous prizes! 

• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
cableh~;··set 

to go in Ha{g'(lr 
ByMARILYN AliOTO 
For the first time in their history, St. Mary's students will now be ,a.J:>Ie to enjoy qasic cable, ·W~~c}l. was installed in th,Q;Hag~a.f Game Room lastTuesday. ··· The next project is to expand cable throughout the Haggar Student Center. BOG will sponsor a reception for all students in ~id~April to 
: celebrate. tlt~ ¢()ntinuing)il,np:rovements tol'Ythe st,;1, Mary'!l emmnririity~ .. . . ): 
· Along with the Notre Dame ··· Counseling Center and the University of Notre Dame, St. Mary's will help to sponsor the Mulberry. Players. on April. 3 and .4 in the flesburgh,,11 t. ~en~.~r .(....•. fol' 
· InternatJonalStudles; Co-.. ordinator and Notre Dame professor Wendy Settle explains in her letter that after each skit is performed, the audience will have the opportunity to discuss and get involved. • .M{•>;c 
The topic to be discussed on AprH 3rd is gender rela­tions and on April 4th, 
C.A.R.E and date rape. Space is limited to 7 5 stu­dents and admission is free. The Spiritual Life Committee is now accepting donations for their Easter basket drive. Donations can be·teft in the boxes at the front of each dorm and in the off campus parlor and will be accepted until April 9. 
The final meeting for presi­dent Noha El~.Ganzouri and the current BOG members is 
April3. . 
-----------------------------------------------------------,
Large 2-Topping Pizza 
$ S 99 

F-a plus tax 
-----6-:.,lkt;~n=~~~:~~·~~-~,da:a~~~:"riof~~~~ ra~e':Y~vV:n~s~1u:=~~~epi~·~:.~:xc~'eas umited to ensure sara driving. 
-------------------------------------------------------------~
-------------------------------------------------------------,
2 Large 2-Topping Pizzas 
$1 0 99 
plustax 

6~~kt~~~r1~~~~~:-:: ~n~ ~trvd~e:~r!"riof~~~~~ ro~fer;riVV:n'!s~1u:~~~!t~l:e:~~-8;i:,~~~reas limited to ensure safe drtving. 
-------------------------------------------------------------~ 
-------------------------------------------------------------,
2 Medium Cheese Pizzas 
$ 7 99 

plus tax 
~o==:. ..illii..6~1:dd~~n~r;'\~2ss!~s~~·. ~~r ~~~e~~~r:"lof~e~8~~:~ r~~~e':tv~art~S~1u;~r:J:~l:e:~z':·~~~~:XC~reas limited to ensure sate drMng. 
Dutile encourages pursuit of law careers 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Assistant Editor 
Fernand Dutile, Notre Dame's Associate Dean and Professor at Law, sat at eye level with approximately 15 Saint Mary's students yesterday in Haggar Center. In his speech, "So, You Want to Go to Law School," he informed the students how to apply to law school, listed the different fields of law, and gave numerous reasons for attend­ing law school. 
Dutile received his under­graduate degree from Assump­tion College and earned his law degree from Notre Dame. He worked for the federal gov­ernment in the Justice Depart­ment and taught at Catholic University Law School before returning to Notre Dame in 1971. 
"Law school is where very old people in their twenties go to die," said Dutile. "I am not here to sell you on law school. Instead, I am here to inform you about it's flexibilities." 
Dutile spoke about alterna­tives to practicing law in pri­vate or corporate firms. According to him, the govern­ment is always looking for criminal defense lawyers, pros­ecutors. and judicial clerks. 
Dutile gave a general idea of what lawyers do with their law degrees: 73% of all lawyers have a private practice, 10% work in a corporate firm, 6% are employed by the govern­ment, 3% work for the Judi­ciary, and 3% work in the law schools. 
He stressed the importance of being happy. Corporate law firms, especially for women, in large are very disturbing, ac­cording to Dutile. When decid­ing on whether or not one wants to work in a private or corporate firm the amount of time one is willing to put in is a major factor. 
"If you are getting paid hun­dreds of thousands of dollars from a large law firm," Dutile said, "expect to give them every waking minute of your life. If you want a life don't go to a big firm, unless less you are com­pletely driven." 
Nationally, the number of applicants for law school has decreased 15%-18%. However in 1963, when Dutile graduated from Notre Dame Law school, there was 49,552 lawyers, and in 1994 there was an increase of127,441lawyers. 
"We do not have too many lawyers," Dutile said. "We have a bad distribution of lawyers." 
Dutile encouraged all stu­dents who are accepted into law school, but did not get accepted by their first choice colleges, to go. 
According to Dutile, if you are set on a law school and get rejected, go to another school, work hard, and transfer. It is a lot easier to get accepted as a second year transfer student. 
Dutile advised students to take time creating their per­sonal essays. Most of the com­peting students will have simi­lar GPA's and LSAT scores, and the essay is what makes one unique. 
Dutile also advised students to talk to people they know when obtaining references. "Don't get a two-liner from some judge that knows your second cousin." 
In 1994-1995, the Notre Dame Law School received 3,200 applications, and they accepted 681. However, only 205 students enrolled. 
Tanya Molitor, a third year Notre Dame law student, spoke after Dutile about applying to Notre Dame Law School. 
"When you are at the law school you don't really feel like you are at Notre Dame, " said Molitor. "The diversity of the students is on a much higher scale." 
Molitor graduated from Saint Mary's in '92 with a political science degree. She has already obtained a job at Dykema Gosset, the largest law firm in Michigan. She will be working in its branch firm in Grand Rapids. 
While at Saint Mary's, she spent a semester in Washington through a Saint Mary's pro­gram and worked at the White House. She was also on student government and participated in the Appalachia program. 
" You have to trust yourself." said Molitor. "After graduating from Saint Mary's I could not have been more prepared for law school. I did not know ex­actly what I wanted to do. I just thought a law degree was a flexible degree that could apply 
see LAW/ page 4 

AFTER GRADUATION, WHERE 
IN THE WORLD WILL YOU BE? Your first job after graduation should offer you more than just a paycheck. In science, education, natural resources, health and business, Peace Corps Volunteers are put­ting their degrees to work where they are needed most while gaining the experience of a lifetime. 
To find out how you can be working in one of over 90 countries in Latin America, Cen­tral/Eastern Europe, Africa, the Caribbean, Asia or the Pacific contact the Chicago Area Peace Corps Office at the number below.


Thursday, March 30, 1995

page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
ed her studying habits. "In law school you are not

Law 
taught the law," said Molitor. "You are taught a process, and

continued from page 3 
after you graduate you research and practice the law." 

to a large field. It's not for all Molitor gave a positive mes­students, but no one can take sage to many Saint Mary's stu­the education away from you." 
dents who are interested in law According to Molitor, it is school. Not only did she en­hard to adapt to the first year courage and give the room in­of law school. It was frustrating sight to her success, she gave afor her to only have one test at freshman student her own per­the end of the semester. The sonal phone number to call insecond and third year became case she had any questions. 

easier for her after she adjust-
Big Boy murdered 
By MITCH WEISS 
Associated Press 
TOLEDO 

The grisly murder of Big Boy was tough to swallow. Now it's time for justice to be served. 
Police say eight men, most of them college students, admitted Tuesday that they stole the pudgy, pompadoured 300­pound plastic pitchman from outside a restaurant, dismem­bered him with a hacksaw and dumped his remains at other Big Boy restaurants with notes that declared: "Big Boy is Dead." 
The eight probably will be cnarged with criminal mischief, which could land them in jail for up to 60 days. 
"The long saga is over," said 
Dave Nelson, manager of the 
restaurant from which the 6­
foot fiberglass statue was taken 
on March 17. "We know who 
killed Big Boy. We can all rest a 
little bit easier." 
His one fear: "I hope it does­n't inspire other Big Boy killers. I don't think we can handle another one." 
The hamburger-toting statue with the black pompadour, red­and-white checkered pants and suspenders has guarded the doors of Big Boy restaurants since the 1930s. 
Detective Ron Scanlon said Big Boy's abductors took the statue to an apartment on March 17 and debated what to do with it until one suggested they "chop him up." 
"One thing led to another and the kids started dismembering him," Scanlon said. "They took the head and cut it off. Some­body else took an arm, a leg." 
Why? "We were bored," ex­
plained Tom Martinez, one of 
the group. 
Martinez, 18, said he knew 
stealing Big Boy was "a pretty 
stupid thing to do." But, he 
quickly added, "It was a lot of 
fun." 

Trial 
continued from page 1 
the night before the incident. 
Waiting to take the stand, Wilson remembers her ner­vousness: "It was nerve-rack­ing. All I could think was 'I am not ready to see this man star­ing at me.'" At 1:30 p.m., Wilson was called into the courtroom. 
"I was overwhelmed by the number of people and all of the press," she recounts. "I was asked to point out Duran, iden­tify the pictures he had taken of me and Esti, and to retell my 
Miller 
continued from page 1 

university already, because now I just want to get back into school." 
But getting back into school will not be as simple as just re­turning to South Bend. 
"University policy states that any former students who are interested in returning must re­apply through the Office of Admissions," Vice-President of Residence Life Bill Kirk ex­plained. 
If he does make his return, Miller would probably not start until the spring semester of next year. He has other things, like the National Football League draft, on his mind cur­
rently. 
"I went to the combines and did good at the combines," Miller said. ''I've been con­tacted by 15 or 20 teams so far. I'd have to say my chances are pretty good." 
"All I know is that Michael 
Miller was cleared," Irish coach 
Lou Holtz said. "There's always 
two sides to every story." 

story. I told them I thought [Duran] had acted normal." 
"It was hard at first. I only looked him in the eye once, but I could feel him looking at me the whole time. His wife was in the courtroom and broke down and cried. I felt very sorry for her." 
The prosecution kept her on the stand for about 20 minutes. She was then briefly cross-ex­amined by the defense. 
Wilson said being involved with the trial was scary, but described her return to Washington D.C. as a positive experience. 
"I was glad to have met the 
other witnesses. I was fine 
knowing that I wasn't alone. 
No one can believe this hap­
pened to me. It was a one in a 
million chance, and it hap­
pened to me." 

**Pick up an Aerobic Instructor Application from the Rec~ports office. Return the completed form Sunday, April2. **Attend an Aerobics Workshop on Sunday, April 2, 12:00-2:00, Rockne 301. This workshop will provide basic information on instruction as well as polish other teaching skills. We will also be teaching a routine which each individual must perfol"l'1 at the instructor auditions April 21. Please bring a blank 
Attention Graduates If you are looking for a Teachin~ Service Pro~ram to offer you ... A year to remember and an experience that you will never forget in New York, come to the Center for Social Concerns to meet Sr. Deanna Sabetta April3, 9:00am to 5:00pm to ask questions about teaching in New York City OUR INNER CITY TEENAGERS NEED YOU! Please call 212~ 371 ~ 1000 ex 2803 for an appointment to talk to Mary Ann Romer who will give you more information.  
1994-95 MAINSTAGE 5 E A S 0 N NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTSOUR COUNTRY'S BY 1iMBERLAKE WERTENBAKERGOOD DIRECTED BY REGINALD BAIN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 . . 8 P. M THURSDAY, APRIL 6 . 8 P M FRIDAY, APRIL 7 .. . .. 8 P.M SATURDAY, APRIL 8 8 P M SUNDAY, APRIL 9 ... 2 30 P.M RESERVED SEATS $7 STUDENT AND SENIOR CmZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND SUNDAY ]CKETS ARE AVAilABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN AOVANCE AT THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE MAsTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128 W A S H N G T 0 N H A L L VIEWERS MAY ,.-INO SOME OF THE lAHGlJAGE IN THIS PLAY OFFENSIVE  

March 30, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• ACLOSER LOOK AT•••THE NOTRE DAME POST OFFICE 
11

The Observer presents the first In a weekly series examining different 
W***W .Z S!$@1 % > s
·2 e' 

departments, offices, and services on campus. Today, we begin with an examination of Notre Dame's post office. 
Post office places Notre Dame on the map 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST ....-------------., sity with its own mailing 
Associate News Ediwr address, due to the fact that it 
1858 regulations lor has its own post office. St. 
When Father Edward Sorin the mail between Mary's-of-the-Woods, a small 
petitioned in 1850 for a post Notre Dame and Saint college near Terre Haute, Ind., 
office to be built on the Notre is the only other school Walsh 
Dame campus, he was doing Mary's: knows of that also has its own 
more than just making mail TholliU tht~ mall curift' lhaU office. 
delivery more convenient for leave Notre DIUIH! dally at 1 oet. Outgoing mail leaves the sta­
his students. P.M. lor St. Mary•., Sundar'• tion at 3 p.m. and again around 
He was also putting Notre exceptect 4:30p.m., when it is shipped to 
Dame on the map. Bro. Nazarius ,,._..leave St. the South Bend Post Office. 
Besides the time and money Mary's wlU. the man at 7 ocl. From there, the mail is directed 
saved by having a post office on A.M. to its destinations. Prior to 
University grounds, Sorin The mall s.hall be made up aepa· leaving the campus, all mail put 
ensured that the school's name -te lor the Convent 8 AcadeJnf'• in the mailboxes around cam-
would appear on all govern-The mall bac 1haU be left and pus are emptied around 2 p.m. 
ment maps and that the roads depodtect at both places, by Ole "That's only after we dump 
to the school would be better curlers. No other perton •hall be all the beer cans out of the 
maintained, providing the pub-lntraated with Ole naalUo or mailboxes," Walsh quipped. 
licity and exposure that was lrom the olllce, to or bom St. "We'd mail the cans. but 
much needed by a school only Mary's there's never any postage on 
in its beginnings. It Sorin PM them." 
And while Notre Dame now =:,.;~.::--...._--::;:""' Walsh, who worked previous-
gets its exposure from other ly at the South Bend Post Office, 
sources, the post office still pos-1..-....-------~---"--.....J likens working at the campus 
sesses a niche in the life of the idence hall usually pick up their office to living in a small town. attribute for a post office. questions," he smiled. "Often 
campus, having increased rev-dorm's mail between 9-12 a.m. "It's not as hectic-we're not "I think the young people on they'll ask, 'Can I buy a stamp 
enues from $36.02 in 1851 to "Our post office is strictly a under the kind of pressure that campus make the atmosphere here?' I mean, of course they
$3.5 million in 1994. pick-up office," said Mike you see in a city office such as more positive than in some of can. We're a post office. But 
Operations at the post office Walsh, the postmaster of the South Bend's," Walsh said. the other places I've worked," I'll respond, 'No, you have to go
begin at 4 a.m., when the first Notre Dame office since 1989. "The noise level here is incredi­Walsh said. "With the dining to the grocery store to buy
mail trucks arrive and the "We're unique in that we don't bly low. It's peaceful." halls, they're used to waiting in stamps' just to spite them. 
clerks start sorting the mail. have any mailmen like you The pleasant pace of work lines." "They sometimes look at me 
Around 7 a.m., agents from the would usually associate with allows for Walsh and his clerks Walsh readily admits that he like I'm a jerk, but during the 
various campus departments post offices." to become more familiar with enjoys teasing the students. stressful times of the year ­
arrive to pick up their mail. Notre Dame is also unique in their customers. something that "Sometimes they come up to like final exam week -a little 
Student carriers from each res-that it is the only major univer-he thinks is an important the counter with the dumbest teasing can put them at ease." 
NEITHER RAIN, NOR SLEET, NOR DARK 
OF NIGHT STOPS DORM MAIL CARRIERS 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE said. "Besides, you get used to walks living way Assistant News Editor out here in Carroll." While his job does not interfere too much with 
Being a mail carrier at Notre Dame is not nec­his classes, it does interrupt his lunch hour. essarily a difficult job. It does, however, require Beezley drops his cart off at the post office before a sense of responsibility and loyalty since dorm his morning class, and he picks it up at noon. It residents want their mail as soon as they can get takes Beezley a half hour to pick up both the it, according to student employees. campus and the ofT-campus mail and distribute it 
A mail carrier's job includes picking up cam­into the mailboxes, he said. pus mail at the mail distribution center behind Despite the minor inconveniences, Beezley said the Main Building as well as off-campus mail at he enjoys the job, which requires a sense of the Notre Dame Post Office. Once the mail has humor as well as a sense of responsibilty. On his been gathered, the mail carriers must separate first day Beezley said he had "no clue" of what the mail into the mailboxes in their dorms. A he was doing. "The tire on my cart popped, and dorm mail carrier earns about $60 a week and the cart broke down. I had to walk all the way works about an hour or two per day. from Lyons to Carroll carrying the metal carrier 
"It's not a very glamorous job," Notre Dame and all the mail. I thought I was gonna cry." Postmaster Mike Walsh said. Student workers The time a carrier spends delivering mail must haul the mail by hand to their dorms and depends upon how well the mail is separated by do so despite time connicts with their classes, the mail distribution center and the post office. assignments, and the weather. Beezley said that Carroll Hall is often given mail 
Kris Beezley, Carroll Hall sophomore, said that that is supposed to go to Cavanaugh. His dorm the job of mail carrier is not easy, but it is not a also receives mail for residents of Carroll who hard burden to bear. have already graduated. 
."At what other job can you make about $60 a "People who lived here five years ago get more week for the amount of work I do. Carroll gets mail than my friend Max," Beezley said, "but the smallest amount of mail on campus," Beezley that's not the post office's fault." 




ByJAMIE HEISLER football coach. on a stamp. They review those News Writer In 1992, the school's sesqui-ideas ci.nd decide WhiCh WQUld centennial year, the Golden reflect' on our culture cthe 
The Golden Dome, football, Dome was chosen by a postal most,"iP£dordmg to Walsh . .i the Sacred Heart Basilica, .... committee to be pictured on a Digger~P,helps, former N~tre stamps? Not many people as-19 cent postcard as one in a se­Dame: basketball coach, has sociate. stamps with Notre ries of historical-site commem­served on that committee: for Dam~·~ but the University has oratives: The series honored several years and had influence been th<'jnspiration. {or; two .. sites of historical significance. on the' choice of stamps. "He stamps and a postcard/ .· . • . ·· The Golden Dome could not played/a key_'role _in getting the 
The first stamp was issued in be inemotialized on a. stamp Knute, Rockl\e stamp and the 1893 when the post office because "buildings are gener~ postcl\l'd done.'! said Walsh. copied on~ Ofthe murals in• the· ally not put on a stamp bUt can While the stamps and post­Golden Dome which pictured be used on postcards," accord­card are available nation~wide, the landing of Christopher ing to Notre Dame Postmaster the Notre.' Dame post office Cplumbus in the New World. Mike Walsh. alone O~«Yr~:'speci~l p;i~torial The stamp was reissued in The University does not offi-cancellations' i:onc'Jr:riing 'Notre 1992 along with another group cially play a role in the issuance Dame. "For example, when the of stamps for a series com-ofnlated stamps. but can lobby Golden Dome postcard came memo rating the life of Christo-for them 'if there is a significant out, we had a special pictorial pher Columbus. desire. "Stamp designs origi· cancellation for that. We also 
The second Notre Dame re-·. nate in . a committee in had a special cancellation done Iated stami:rwa:s a 22 cent one~i'•JW~l>h.ington D.C. Which takes for the Notre Dame-Florida issued in 1988, which honored from the general public any State football game last year." Knute''Rockne; the legendary· idea Which they feel should be said Walsh. 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 30 ,1995 
Considerations 

n March 24, 1995, The Observer pub­lished apaid advertisement signed by four members of GLND/SMC. Unfortunately, despite our desire to avoid participation in what has now become orchestrated po­lemics, we cannot ignore the accusations 
and insinuations contained in the GLND/SMC advertisement. Whether intentionally or not, the advertisement is aimed at the heart of our ministry and at us as pastoral ministers at Notre Dame in an attempt to depict us as unworthy of trust. 
We will limit our response to those portions of the adver­tisement which refer to Campus Ministry at Notre Dame or to me, the current director of the office, a position I have held since July 1, 1989. 
On March 1, 1995, the staff of Campus Ministry and I sent a letter to Notre Dame undergraduate students. The let­ter provided pastoral reflections we hoped would serve as a basis for discussion among the students. We also wished to provide information concerning a pastoral initiative we have started which brings together gay and lesbian undergraduate students on a regular basis. 
In the GLND/SMC advertisement, only seven lines are quoted from our four page letter which GLND/SMC charac­terizes as "troubling and divisive." 
There is no reference, in the advertisement, to yet an­'other strong condemnation by Campus Ministry of harass­ment of gay and lesbian students--our seventh in four years. 
There is no reference to our reflections on the Church's teachings on human sexuality for all believers regardless of sexual orientation. 
There is no reference to our statement which distinguishes homosexual orientation from homosexual activity, and states clearly that gay or lesbian orientation is neither sinful nor evil. 
There is no reference to our sincere expressions of open­ness and welcome with which we, as people and as pastoral ministers, meet and work with gay and lesbian students. Our approach and position for the past six years has been nonjudgmental and characterized by compassionate under­standing. 
There is no positive reference to our pastoral initiative which brings together gay and lesbian students so that together they can find support and helpful information as they attempt to live their lives in accordance with their values and beliefs. 
Despite what the GLND/SMC advertisement states, it is not true that in 1993 one of the co-chairs of GLND/SMC worked with Father Thomas McDermott, then a member of the staff of Campus Ministry, to establish a Campus Ministry outreach to gays and lesbians. 
What is true is that Father McDermott was one of seven members of the Campus Ministry staff who worked together from the Fall semester of 1992 through the Spring semester of 1993 developing our pastoral initiative. The guidelines for the development of the program were clear to all the staff members who participated in this effort, and were accepted unanimously by all. The program was delayed, but is now underway. 
It should be noted that each of the many new programs we have developed since 1989, including our pastoral initia­tive with gay and lesbian undergraduate students, has followed a highly consultative approach. We have solicited contribu­tions and comments from members of the faculty and from students, as well as from rectors, whom we consider as full colleagues in our ministry. 
Despite what the GLND/SMC advertisement states, the ab­sence of declared gays and lesbians from participation in a student panel during the 1994 "Keeping the Faith" series was not an explicit exclusion of gay and lesbian students. 
What is true is that no GLND/SMC representative was invited to form part of a five student panel during one of the three days of presentations. This decision was made because the issue was raised in the final days of our six month plan­ning process. Itwas not an arbitrary one designed to exclude 
gay and lesbian students. 
The most serious misinformation contained in the GLND/ 
SMC advertisement, however, is the deliberately partial and, 
therefore, dishonest way the text treats an allegation of the 
'outing' of a student to his parents and rector by a former 
director of Campus Ministry in 1985. 
The March 1letter from the staff of Campus Ministry and 

me states that "We never have and never will, knowingly or unknowingly, 'out' someone to parents or anyone else including staff members. Such an action would simply be unconscionable. This accusation has been made and refuted on numerous occasions. It is false." That statement about our current staffwas true on March 1, is true today and, I am confident, will be so in the future. 
Itis also afact that no specific accusation of 'outing' was ever brought to the attention of Campus Ministry before we wrote our letter to undergraduate students. On many occa­sions during the past two months, as in the past, general and vague references have been made without any specificity what­soever. 
The GLND/SMC advertisement refers to a letter an alum­nus sent to me dated March 17, a copy of which was sent to Mr. John Blandford, not to "the leadership of GLND/SMC." I received the letter on March 22 and responded the same day. My letter clarified several factual errors. Ialso offered to meet the writer at any time. When I saw that the writer had copied Mr. Blandford, I wondered whether the letter was intended for me or whether it was written with an eye toward publica­tion in The Observer. I shared this concern that same day with members of my staff. 
The writer called me on March 23, the day he received my response. He told me he realized he was in the middle of a conflictive situation which he had not sought. I met with him for 90 minutes that day. Iwas told that Mr. Blandford had called the writer the morning of March 23 to ask whether he might use portions of the letter in 'a document.' The writer told me he asked that his letter not be used. Itwas not quoted, but it was paraphrased. 
During my meeting with the writer, I talked about what the staff of Campus Ministry and I have done and will do for and with gay and lesbian students. I clarified that our pasto­ral initiative was not designed to replace GLND/SMC, but flowed from our concern and our responsibilities as pastoral agents. And I reiterated the fact that during my tenure as di­rector ofCampus Ministry, neither Inor any current or former member of the staff of Campus Ministry has, during my ten­ure as director, or will violate the confidential relationship of trust that must exist between a pastoral agent and a person who comes to us for assistance. We also discussed his per­spective regarding a situation he alleged took place in 1985. 
GLND/SMC regrets the fact that neither I nor any staff member ever approached them "to determine the source of these 'allegations'." However, the leaders of GLND/SMC never raised this issue with me during the current controversy nor, for that matter, during my tenure, with any specificity. 
I accept full and personal responsibility for my actions and for the actions of Campus Ministry for as long as I am privileged to serve the Notre Dame community in this way. 
During multiple presentations to different University bod­ies and in press conferences, GLND/SMC representatives had never before stated that "We know of no such breaches of confidentiality under Father Warner's tenure as director of Campus Ministry...." The GLND/SMC advertisement makes that statement only on March 24, 1995, despite the fact that it has been true at least since July 1, 1989, when I was ap­pointed director of Campus Ministry. The staff of Campus Ministry and I are grateful for this belated acknowledgment of what GLND/SMC and we have known to be a fact. 
The staff of Campus Ministry and I reiterate what we wrote to the Notre Dame undergraduate students on March 1, 1995 
Each of us is a unique and distinctive individual, called to life by a loving God, and through jesus Christ, brought to­gether as brothers and sisters who are on a common jour­ney back to the God who created each of us in love and to love....So harassment of anyone, and in terms of what we are discussing, harassment of gays and lesbians, whether intentional or unintentional...is simply unacceptable and wrong....Animosity or disregard for any person or group of persons often leads to hostile and angry words as well as demeaning characterizations. 
It is important to state once again our firm and deeply held beliefs with regard to our responsibilities to students who are or question whether they are gay or lesbian. 
As campus ministers, we want to be people who always 
offer gay and lesbian students afriendly and compassionate 
welcome. 
Each year we talk with anumber of undergraduate men 
and women who know us to be people who treat them with respect in a personal, confidential and nonjudgmental way. 
We never have and never will violate the confidential relationship of trust that must exist between apastoral agent and a person who comes to us for assistance. 
We try to help gay and lesbian students discover ways in which they can live out their Christian commitment in the peace and joy promised to those who cast their lots with Jesus Christ. We try to help people discover in their own lives that love of jesus Christ which has enabled countless men and women of every condition and situation through­out history to find reassurance and consolation and hope, and a very full and happy life. 
Through a pastoral initiative which we have designed, we hope to bring interested gay and lesbian students into contact with other people struggling with the same ques­tions and searching for the same sense of peace and self acceptance. 
Campus Ministry is not agroup of "ecclesial authorities" who pursue an agenda based on rigid orthodoxy. We are a team of 16 professional people, lay and clerical, single and married, who feel blessed to be able to work ever more closely as a team and with students and others at the University of Notre Dame. We hope that we are also compassionate and dedicated people, happy to work closely with a lot of great people. 
We understand how in the heat of a moment, and per­haps even 'to be inflammatory (and) to score rhetorical points,' it may seem convenient for GLND/SMC, as a tactical move, to attempt to compromise our ministry, and to insinu­ate that we are untrustworthy persons whose actions pursue the division of the Notre Dame community. 
We harbor no ill will against the leadership of GLND/ SMC. 
Because of God's grace and the goodness of all the people we work with, regardless of sexual orientation, our programs and efforts, especially those based on peer ministry, have been successful. We believe that this will continue to be the case. We believe that the Notre Dame students who know us and with whom and for whom we minister, know this to be true, as well. 
We will continue to work in a special way with gay and lesbian students through the pastoral initiative we have de­veloped and begun. We will continue to work without being distracted by the tactical pursuits of those whose goals and purposes are not ours. We encourage and welcome gay and lesbian undergraduate students to call Father Bob Dowd or Mrs. Kate Barrett if they are interested in joining us in this common effort. 
This is simply a matter of justice. 
We sign this statement not only with our names, but also with the programs through which, working with others, we attempt to carry out our pastoral responsibilities as the staff of Campus Ministry. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Director, Campus Ministry 
The staff of Campus Ministry : 
Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. Gail L. Walton 
Rector, Sacred Heart Basilica Notre Dame Liturgical Choir
Steven C. Warner Notre Dame Folk Choir, Alfred D'Alonzo, C.S.C Hall Liturgies Campus Bible Studies 
Andrew McShane Lena Jefferson Organist, Basilica N.D.E., Cross Cultural Ministry
Katharine S. Barrett Communities ND Robert Dowd, C.S.C. R.C.I.A., N.D.E. Fourth Day
Christine Etzel Marriage Preparation Sylvia Dillon University Village,
John Dillon 
Religious Education

Marriage Preparation, Religious Education Thomas E. Gaughan, C.S.C. 
N.D. E.

Darrell Paulsen Confirmation Program Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Keeping the Faith Series Special Projects Hispanic Ministry
Priscilla Wong 
Administrator 

Thursday, March 30, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Burundi overflowing with refugees 
By TERRY LEONARD 
Associated Press 
BUJUMBURA, Burundi 

Burundi is a nation on the run. Refugees fleeing violence outnumber residents in the capital -and its second largest city is now a camp populated by Rwandans. 
It is a country where might makes right. It is a land where tfle tragic lessons of neighbor­ing Rwanda have been lost. 
Life in the Central African country is "a little like quick­sand," said Frances Turner, the head of the U.N. Children's Fund in Burundi. "What ap­pears to be, isn't. You have to anticipate not just the unex­pected, but the unimaginable." 
The unimaginable includes the brutality of this mountain­ous, hauntingly beautiful land where neighbors set upon neighbors with machetes. 
A recent UNICEF study of 2,769 of the more than 14,000 ehildren made orphans by eth­nic killings since October 1993, found 58 percent had been per­sonally attacked. It said 77 per­cent of those children knew their attackers, and in nearly 81 percent of those cases, the assailant was a neighbor. 
a 

Menu Includes: 
Killers act with impunity in Burundi. Ethnic violence be­tween the majority Hutus and minority Tutsis promotes the ambitions of extremist political parties and individual politi­cians intent on taking power. 
"People are never prosecuted for political crimes in Burundi," said U.N. special representative Ahmedou Ould Abdallah. 
Revenge becomes the only avenue of retribution. Mas­sacres by extremists on both sides breed more fear and feed ethnic hate and suspicions. 
The lessons of the genocide of more than 500,000 people last year in Rwanda are lost on Bu­rundi because memories of its own past massacres erect an impenetrable barrier to recon­ciliation. 
"It's seared into the soul of every Burundian. Every Hutu cannot forget 1972. Every Tutsi cannot forget 1993," said Turner. 
More than 100,000 people were killed in 1972 in mas­sacres that followed a failed Hutu coup attempt. An esti­mated 100,000 people were killed in 1993 after a failed coup attempt by elements of the overwhelmingly Tutsi military. 
Because the balance of power 
•
1c 

.................................................................. 
&.{, OoiJ.m, Pork or shrimp 
Rice .................................................................3so ....... .EJ15 
&.{, OoiJ.m, Pork or shrimp Roll (1) ..........................................................................95¢ Rangoon (2) .....................................................................J25 Hot &Sour Soup ......................................................................75¢ 

U.N. officials don't expect killings on a Rwandan scale. But none rules out the possibil­ity. 
In the muddy warrens of the dirt roads that make up Bujum­bura's impoverished neighbor­hoods, people are hacked or shot to death for no reason other than ethnic identity. 
At Prince Regent Charles Hospital, a Hutu man slashed 
repeatedly with  a  machete  
o  
small  La:?  

396 
••••••••6 

LnoJ Chicken .............................................................375 Sweet &Sour Chicken .......................................................375 Kung Pao Chicken ..........................................................375 Sesame Chicken ............................................................425 Broccoli Beef ..............................................................396 Beef ............................................................396 Kung Beef .............................................................396 Shrimp ...........................................................475 Spicy Shrimp ....•.........................................................47" 
204 West Mishawaka Avenue 

(219)254-WOOD 
••••••••596 ••••••••596 ••••••••~ ••••••••650 ••••••••625 ••••••••625 ••••••••625 
...•....675 ........675 

cried as he talked about the killings of his wife and three children in the weekend vio­lence that killed anywhere from 150 to 500 people. 
Dr. Simba Muangwa said the man, Sylvestre Gahunga, 39, was one of only three people hospitalized with wounds suf­fered in the fighting. 
"I've got a feeling that this time we didn't see as many pa­tients from the violence be­cause the attacks were very brutal. Most were killed, not injured," said Muangwa. 
"There is no political will to stop this violence," said Muangwa. "One groups tries to increase its power and the oth­ers try to reconquer what they have lost." 
Burundi's coalition govern­ment, forged under terms of a power-sharing agreement last year, is too fractious to govern. Since the beginning of the year, the main Tutsi opposition party has forced the resignations of both the speaker of the national assembly. 
Diplomats contend the week­end fighting, which involved the army, underscored the inability of the Hutu president to control the overwhelmingly Tutsi mili­tary. 
r--B;a-;;; ;:ar;;r , 
I get a second/or I 
!$3°0 OFF!! 
L ______
I &,ires April 30", 1995 -~... 
limit""" tx1UfV" per perscn ~I 
rf/2-6FF!l
I I 
IAnyMea/1
I I 
I &,ires Apnt 30", l(X)5 -~ 
______-I_.
limit one a1UfU1 per perscn
L 
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1996-97. 
All freshmen, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams 
Monday evening, April 3, 1995 at 7:00pm in room 126 DeBartolo 
******A Great Notre Dame Tradition of Winning Fulbrights****** 
Da Nang 
marks U.S. withdrawal 
By KATHY WILHELM 
Associated Press 
DA NANG, Vietnam 
Red banners and revolutionary slogans bloomed from every lamppost on Wednesday, as the city marked 20 years since American Gls fled the sands of China Beach. 
The welcome carpet is still out for Americans in this sea­port that was a major base of 
U.S. military operations and R & R during the Vietnam War. 
"I want Americans to come back. I hope they eat here so I can earn more money and take care of my children," said Vo Thi True Chi, a wait­ress at the newly opened Free Time restaurant, which calls itself "an American bistro." 
Chi learned her rusty but ready English as a secretary for the U.S. military two decades ago. 
Out near China Beach, where Gls rested from a baf­fling war of jungle ambushes and booby-traps, the owner of a beach cafe greeted visi­tors in English: "Hello, my name is Mary Ann." 
Twenty years ago she served drinks to American soldiers at clubs; now she, too, is hoping for an influx of American tourists. 
Da Nang was where Ameri­can combat troops first land­ed in 1965 to help protect South Vietnam against takeover by the Communist North. By the time U.S. troops pulled out of Vietnam in 1973, Air Force, Army and Marine facilities stretched for miles along its shore. 
Two years later, on March 29, 1975, Da Nang fell to the Communist forces that swept across South Vietnam in just two months, taking province after province as panicked southern soldiers and civil­ians fled one step ahead. Da Nang was a chaotic stew of hungry, homeless refugees and rioting southern soldiers who mobbed ships and planes sent from Saigon to evacuate civilians. 
"Because this area was under the Southern regime, at first the people were very afraid of the Communists," recalled Ho Phuc Ngon, 65, a retired North Vietnamese battalion commander. 
"They were told that the Communists would kill every­one." Ngon said in an inter­view. 


pageS The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 30, 1995 
House rejects proposed term limit amendment 
By DAVID ESPO 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In an unvarnished setback for the "Contract With America," the House on Wednesday night rejected a constitutional amendment placing term limits on law­makers. "This issue is n9t going to go away," pledged Speaker Newt Gingrich. Gingrich 


The vote was 227-204 on the proposal to limit lawmakers to 12 years' 
service in the House or Senate. That was more than 60 shy of the two-thirds majority neces­sary for passage. 
The fmal roll call showed 189 of 230 Republicans voting for the measure, and only 38 of 204 Democrats. One Republi­can, Rep. Steve Stockman of Texas, voted present. He won his seat last fall by ousting a 21-term Democratic veteran. 
The vote capped a long day of debate that produced expres­sions of profoundly differing views of government. 
Freshman Rep. David Mcin­tosh, R-Ind., noted the maxim that "power corrupts," and said he and other newly in­stalled lawmakers must guard "against the possibility that this new majority would be cor­rupted by this power." 
But Rep. Barney Frank, an eighth-term Democrat from Massachusetts, opposed the measure. "I believe in repre­sentative democracy untram­meled, unrestricted, unre­strained," he said. "Democracy is not simply what a given ma­jority in a public opinion poll thinks at a given time." 
Inclusion of term limits on last fall's "Contract With Amer­ica" was a reflection of the political popularity of the con­cept, particularly with disaffect­ed voters like those who backed Ross Perot in the 1992 presi­dential election. 
Previous Democratic majori­ties in the House had bottled up these measures, refusing to permit floor votes, and Republi­cans sought to capitalize on that point even as they headed for evident defeat Wednesday night. 
In the final speech of the day, Gingrich sought to pin the blame for the amendment's de­feat squarely on Democrats. 
"My guess is tonight 60 to 65 percent of the Democratic party will vote against the American people and term limits," he said. If that's the case, he added, Republicans will use the issue as a campaign issue in 1996. 

If they reestablish their majority, he said, "term limits will be voted on as the first item in the new Congress." At a news conference moments after the vote, he added, "This issue is not going to go away." 
The vote marked the Republi­can-controlled House's first re­jection of any of the items in the GOP "Contract With America," even though Republican leaders have been forced to make con­cessions on order to win approval for previous mea­sures. 
Another "Contract" item -a constitutional amendment re­quiring a balanced federal bud­get by the year 2002 -won passage in the House but failed by one vote to get the required two-thirds majority in the Sen­ate. 
Gingrich firmly rejected the 
Happy 21st Birthday 
NJlW 

~mmliDllJl~ 
Love, Tucker 

suggestion that the term limits defeat marked the unraveling of the "Contract." He and other top GOP leaders set a strategy meeting for later in the evening on assembling a majority to pass a package of tax and spending cuts scheduled to reach the floor next week. 
Yet after closing ranks with remarkable discipline on ear­lier items in their campaign manifesto, House Republicans faced high-profile defections on term limits. 
"I just can't be an accessory to the dumbing down of democ­racy," said Rep. Henry Hyde, the 11-term Illinois Republican who helped steer other "Contract With America" items to passage as Judiciary Committee chairman. "If this were a trial, I'd call as my first witnesses the Founding Fathers, who directly and unanimously rejected term lim­its." 
On the other hand, one Re­publican, Rep. Mel Hancock of Missouri, used his time during debate to underscore that he was keeping the four-term pledge he made to voters when he first ran. "I will not be a candidate" for re-election this fall, he said. 
Perhaps redundantly for a party that just lost its majority at the polls last fall, many Democrats said the amendment was unnecessary. 

The E:rn.an. McMullin Pe:r~pect;t-ve 8e:rte~ in. Phtl.o~oph.y Daniel Den.n.e-t-t~8 :Philo8oph-y o:f Mind 
Friday and Saturday, March 31 & April1, 1995 
Friday, March 31 

8:00p.m Keynote Address (102DeBartolo): 
Daniel Dennett (Tufts University) "Consciousness: 
Fame in the Brain, not Television" 
Saturday, April l 

9:30a.m Commentary on Dennett'sPhilosophy ofMind (126 DeBartolo): Dave Chalmers (Washington University) Leopold Stubenherg {University of Notre Dame) 
2:00p.m. Chris Hill {University of Arkansas) 

------------~--~-----­
Thursday, March 30, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Boy fights off AIDS virus Senate rejects 
By PAUL RAEBURN "It's like a miracle to me and Doctors cannot be certain the Associated Press a miracle to his mother. It's ev­virus isn't hiding somewhere in ery mother's dream that their the boy's body. But his continu­
regulation reform 
NEW YORK child won't be infected," ing good health is additional 
A Los Angeles boy who was infected with the AIDS virus at birth apparently fought off the infection and is virus-free at age 5, astonishing his doctors. 
Dr. Yvonne J. Bryson, a pedi­atrician and AIDS specialist at the UCLA School of Medicine in Los Angeles, said she believes it is the first carefully docu­mented case_ of someone cast­ing ofT all signs of infection. 
Tests proved conclusively that the boy was infected for at least a month during the first two months of his life. Later exami­nations found no sign of the virus, Bryson said. 
Doctors have no explanation. 
Bryson said. 
Bryson said she and her col­leagues are studying the boy's immune system for clues that could be used to stop AIDS in­fections in others. 
"It just opens up a lot of things to look at. Before now, there was such skepticism about the possibility that this could occur," said Bryson, whose findings appear Thurs­day in the New England Jour­nal of Medicine. 
The boy's mother remains infected but does not yet have symptoms of AIDS, Bryson said. The boy and his mother were not identified. 

evidence that the infection has disappeared. 
Most children infected at birth get sick during the first three years of life, Bryson explained. If the boy were still infected, he would almost cer­tainly be sick by now, she said. 
"Our reaction first was that we must have made a mis­take," Bryson said. "I was skeptical, as other people would be." 
Bryson has since identified another child who appears to have accomplished the same improbable feat. Studies are now under way to confirm the second case, she said. 

presented by • 
& the ARAB·AMERICAH CLUB 
t 
The FACULTY Series 

TIMELY TOPICS 
An opportunity to enter into conversation with colleagues on current ethical and religious issues. 
"WHERE AM I WHEN I AM IN AFRICA?" The Ethics of Seeing & The Ethics of Reading 
Presentation by  Response by  
Patrick Gaffney, CSC  and  Donald Sniegowski  
Associate Professor of Anthropology  Associate Professor of English  

Thursday, March 30 4:30p.m. at 115 Decio 

Faculty, Professional Staff & Graduate Students Welcome 
Sponsored by: The Department The Center for The Office of of Theology Social Concerns Campus Ministry 
--Light Refreshments will follow -­
I 
a 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following positions: 
Viewpoint Copy Editors Assistant Viewpoint Editors 
Please submit a one-page statement of intent and experience to Michael O'Hara in 314 LaFortune by 3 p.m. on Friday, March 31. Any questions call631-4541. 

MAJOR GENERAL MARTIN STEELE, USMC 
speaks on 
''THE CHALLENGE OF LEADERSHIP IN THE MILITARY TODAY'' 
Friday, March 31st 4:15p.m. Library Auditorium 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The Senate today unani­mously rejected a sweeping, House-passed moratorium on federal regulations in favor of a compromise allowing Congress to block burdensome regula­tions on a case-by-case basis. 
The Senate bill is in sharp contrast to a regulatory freeze approved last month by the House in which thousands of federal rules and standards would be put on hold for a year or until broader reforms are enacted. 
Many senators maintained that the House legislation would go too far by jeopardiz­ing numerous health and safety regulations, from meat inspec­tion rules to standards for toy safety. 
The bipartisan compromise cleared the Senate 100-0. 
"A moratorium is an extreme measure .... It's something we cannot support here," declared Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D. 
The compromise also gained wide support among Republi­cans, many of whom earlier had supported the broader freeze but were concerned that if enacted it would be vetoed by President Clinton. 
"It's not a panacea, it's not a cure-all," said Sen. Don Nick­les, R-Okla. But unlike a temporary rule moratorium, he said, the congressional review would have permanent impact. 
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R­Texas, another supporter of the freeze approved by the House, said the compromise still rep­resented "a giant first step to­ward reining in regulators." 
The Senate action was a clear setback for the House, which last month by a 276-146 vote approved its far-reaching, one-year regulatory freeze as part of a broader assault on federal regulatory agencies. The anti-regulation bills are part of the House GOP's "Contract With America" agen­da. 
House Speaker Newt Gin­grich, R-Ga., said a broad freeze was needed to put a halt to federal regulatory abuses that cost businesses billions of dollars a year in sometimes­foolhardy regulations. 
The Senate, while urging reg­ulatory reform, had little taste for such a dramatic gesture. 
By a voice vote late Tuesday, the Senate agreed to substitute its more modest approach for a proposed regulatory freeze, setting the stage for today's fi­nal vote. 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, March 30, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present dte views of the auchors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu qeneral Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• LETTER TO THE E~HiOR 
Discrimination, hate contrary to ND hero 
Dooley's lover responds to Roth column 
Dear Editor: 
My lover, Dr. Thomas A. Dooley died in January 1961. He was a very gentle man who believed that people of all races genders, orientations and religions were one Family and all worthy of respect and love. He did not discriminate. Indeed, he despised those who promoted hate, whether such be in the name of poli­tics and religion. A victim of such hate, he showed that we who are Gay are indeed worthwhile and decent people. The garbage project­ed onto us by hateful bigots has first to exist in the minds of those bigots, who then project this filth onto us. 
I am deeply disturbed by remarks made in a Viewpoint Column appear­ing in your periodical on March 3, 1995. The column, authored by Mr. Charles Roth, ascribed attitudes and philosophies to Dr. Tom Dooley which, I can tell you ftrst hand, Tom would abhor. Mr. Roth's attacks on Gays and Lesbians are very cruel. He identifies himself as a student. Obviously one with much to learn. 
I used to hate fundamentalists. Especially those like Mr. Roth. He accuses others of being selective in their interpretations of the Holy Bjble-but he conveniently over­looked the Commandment "Judge not lest ye shall be judged!". I was young too, and had my prejudices! Over the years, I have cared for chil­dren of such people-three of these died of AIDS. Those children who were Gay were disowned by their Catholic and Baptist parents and they are buried on my son's moun­tain-top ranch here in Sonoma County. Their parents, still Catholic and still Baptist, have a greater understanding of their loss caused by ignorance and prejudice. We have become close friends and I under­stand their grief. Today, they tend other people's children and champi­on the civil rights of others' gay sons and lesbian daughters, so others shall not suffer discrimination. 
My relationship with Tom was such that I gave up everything I owned to travel to be with him at Muong Sing, Laos. I had no concern about being in a foreign land, unable to speak the language. I had faith, and that in itself was adequate testi­mony to my love. I would have fol­lowed him to the ends of the earth. As he lay dying in a New _York Hospital, attended by Tony, an orderly, and our loving friend, Theresa Gallagher, Tom's last words to me were that he loved me. They are words which comforted me when I later faced abuse at the hands of prejudiced persons. 
I am appalled that someone would misuse my lover's name to attack those he and I consider our children: gays, lesbians, people of color; peo­ple of all persuasions. 
I am not angry with Mr. Roth, because the only difference between himself and myself is education. In a few years he will realize, as we all eventually do, that hatred is not the answer to societal problems, but their root cause. He and others like him who seek to disenfranchise peo­ple because of who they are, should know that my relationship with my first spouse, Dr. Dooley, was every bit as loving and wonderful and wor­thy as any hetero marriage based on true love. 
Since his death, I have raised an orphaned child who, contrary to the hatemongers' projections, was het­erosexual. He and his wife have two children of their own. My other boy, Robert, and his wife, Pam, lost their firstborn after four bouts of heart surgery and a pacemaker implant in 1989. Eleven months old, the baby 
'He was a very gentle 
man who believed that people of all races genders, orientations and religions were one Family and all wor­thy of respect and love. He did not discriminate. Indeed, he despised those who pro­moted hate, whether such be in the name of politics and religion.' 
died. Yet, they had enough courage to have another child. He is now three years old. My second spouse, Leonard, like Dr. Dooley, was victim­ized by the prejudices of a handful of bigots in the Pentagon. Shortly, I shall be buried with him in the Congressional Cemetery, in Washington, D.C. Their stories, along with many others' are told in Randy Shilts' book Conduct Unbecoming, which was also recently released on CD-ROM. 
Hopefully your Administration will reinstate the campus Lesbian and Gay meetings and respect the rights of those who God created different, yet in His image. It is time for hon­esty and change. It is time to set aside old wives tales and prejudices and learn to love each other as Americans, as human beings. America is a country so diverse that we can not point to someone and say he or she is "typically American." If we can not get along in our country, how can we expect others to do so in the larger world community of nations? ~ 
Your University is much respected and admired for its academic excel­lence. I hope, for the sake of human­ity, it shall include the lessons of fel­lowship and all-inclusiveness within the scope of its operations. Also, I hope it will become a beacon for honest recognition of the integrity and self-worth of Lesbians and Gays and the contributions all of us make, through our loving relationships with each other, to Society and Humanity. 
LT. COLONEL CLIFF ANCHOR 
(RET.) 
Former Special Assistant to the Commanding General, California National Guard (1978-88) NATO Delegate at Large Wurzburg Congress ( 1989) NATO Delegate at Large Calgary Congress (1990) George Bush Presidential Appointee to Selective SeiVice System (1991) Adviser to the Cambridge Study (1966) leading to foundation ofPBS/NPRICPB Honorary Deputy Sheriff ofSonoma County Life Member, Broadcast Pioneers ofAmerica Chaner Founder Member, Armed Forces Broadcasters' Association Father, Grandfather and Great Grandfather 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
NO11/AYI 'ifl MAYBe YOU KINO OF
1HATf3ff.l
Uf'ANORPHAN­/1/lf/?e 7R.YING UI<£7H&
IREM/3M­
~1HON/?f1 70 CYNK'Ati-Y~­~COM­
8CRNO:Ul
1~156 PUJfTAN ~B,-Y /N8aJT,CHIUJI<l3N! N&Wft'JI.JTICAI­19/'T/T, 0 \ MtXJIJfOR 'faR 1~,., ~If?.? 
(}J(JV GAIN. 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
" A. man should never put on 
.1-\.his best trousers when he goes out to battle for free­dom and truth." 
-Henrik Ibsen 


.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
ACCENT -­
Thursday, March 30, 1995 page 11 
• MUSIC REVIEW 

By CHRISTIAN STEIN 
Music Cri[ic 
****~
out of five 

Having made their first major nationwide television appear­ance this past Saturday on "Saturday Night Live" and having recently signed with Atlantic Records USA, Canadian music giants, The Tragically Hip, are making a bold move with the hopes of gaining the same success in the U.S. as they have had north of the border. 
The Tragically Hip formed in 1986 and one year later re­leased an indepedent, self-titled EP that caught the eyes of MCA Records Canada. Following their second album, Up To Here, the band released Road Apples, complete with a blend of fast and slow songs with incredible lyrics that refer to historical events as well as literature. Road Apples went triple platinum and helped win the band the distinguished honor of "Entertainer of the Year" in Canada. 
For two years after the release of their third album, Fully Completely, The Hip toured constantly, averaging 220 live shows per year and selling out 95% of them. They toured around the world and headlined many large European music 
Photo courtesy of MCA Records Canada 
festivals, while organizing their own touring festival in Canada. 
Ontario natives The Tragically Hip are on the rise in the U.S. with
II} between shows. the band took time to record snippets of the release of their latest album Day for Night. songs they were working on for their next album. 
The lyrics appear cynical at times, as is apparent right from Finally, in the fall of 1994, Canadian fans got what they were the start in "Grace, Too," a song about a rich guy who feels heanxiously waiting for ...Day for Night. The Hip's fourth major can pick up a girl on his wealth alone. "He said, 'I'm fabulouslyalbum brings with it a sign of the band's maturity. It is by far rich, come on just let's go.' I she kinda bit her lip, 'gee I don't the darkest, most solemn album they have released. It is also know."' On the other side of the coin, Downie looks at a similarthe most sophisticated musically and definitely the most per­situation from a different perspective. In the slow paced, mu­sonal lyrically. 
sically ingenious acoustic song "Scared," he sees a desperateSinger Gord Downie has moved away from the Canadiana guy who will do anything, even to the point of instilling fear in ainspiration in his lyric writing and finally opened his heart to girl, to get her. "I can make you scared I if you want me to/ I'm the world, writing songs that are reflective and introspective. 
not prepared I but if I have to." 
Ue has eliminated the catchy verses about boy-girl relation­
This album, like Road Apples, changes pace and mood
ships and replaced them with dark, sometimes incoherent throughout, from the slow, haunting, distressful "Yawning orlyrics. This is not to say that his songs make you think, "What Snarling" to the angry rage of "Fire in the Hole.'' Diversity and the hell was that about?" Instead, Downie has perfected the consistency are definitely trademarks of this excellent album. 
art of alienating the audience, but at the same time, he knows No recording, however, is able to capture this amazing band that even if they can't understand him, they still know what better than a live show. As one Hip fanatic said, "The Hip arehe's talking about. 
the type of band that you want to see with a good beer buzz in Downie's writing is not the only thing that has progressed; he a small bar." 
has finally found truth in his unique voice. This is evident on It's difficult to say if this is the band's best release ever be­Day for Night as he sings in ranges that would never be found 
cause each album carries a unique sound and style. What ison previous albums. It is this type of experimentation and indisputable is that The Tragically Hip have greatly progressed maturity that runs rampant on Day for Night. Musically, a pro­over the years while maintaining a very familiar sound thatgression has also been made to a much tighter sound. 
each album adapts to fit a particular mood. 
• SOFT SCALE SODA 
Matthew Sweet just wants to have fun 
By ROB ADAMS best track, "Walk Out." "Not When I Music Cri[ic Need It" is a treatise on expansive, 
broad-thinking pop, building as Sweet 
tells the story of a desolate person who is 
trying not to take his good life for grant­
****out of five ed. "It was written when I was on the 
road and feeling lonely," said Sweet. 
Matthew Sweet is the type of artist who Sweet's lyrics normally have the quali­may have his lyrical style copied, his ty of a pouting yet intellectual teenager trademark feedback-to-vocal-harmony who's likely to snap on his parents at any imitated or his song structure repro­given moment and storm out of the duced, but no one can really emulate the house. Take, for example, "Sick of package en total. Nowhere is his person­Myself," a track on which his insecurities al stamp of unique music more evident are palpable and unabashedly exposed. than on his sixth album, 100% Fun. Mournful pedal steel guitar by Greg Leisz 
Sweet gained appeal with his 1992 opens the tender ballad, "I Almost release, Girlfriend. Its painfully humma­Photo courtesy of Zoo Entertainment Forgot" during which Sweet, again dis­ble choruses and pop-ridden melodies Matthew Sweet skillfully mixes themes of joy traught, reminds himself that he has Jove 
and sorrow on the new release 100% Fun. 
achieved radio airplay from both alterna­to live for. tive and Top 40-oriented stations. 1993's plished songwriter. Each listen of 100% Fun highlights a Altered Beast, however, was the yang to On 100% Fun, the Lincoln, Nebraska different dazzling part of the record, Girlfriend's yin. Sweet's melodies were native has a knack for mixing the gor­which features Sweet's own unique seal more obscure and his themes more sor­geous with the grotesque, the elated with of idiosyncratic rock, catchy pop did; this was a dejected and rejected the melancholy, and the immense with melodies and plush layers of vocal har­Sweet, almost at the point of giving up. the petite. Nightmare-inducing construc­monies. On Girlfriend, the glass was 
Now in 1995, 100% Fun falls some­tions mix with such lyrics as "Super half-full for Sweet, on Altered Beast, where in between the two practically baby/You're the one/Promise you won't Sweet's glass was half-empty, but on polar opposites. With the songs uncon­go far/I want you right where you are." 100% Fun. Sweet is too busy drinking to 
sciously designed to make happy people Eerie psychedelic background vocals notice. depressed and depressed people happy, erupt into a dramatic tale of a major Rob Adams' Music Reviews appear Sweet realizes his potential as an accom-change of life's direction on the album's every Thursday. 

To 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 


Marvin Miranda's "Traces of Camus" mixes the regular "Genesis," hosted by Pete Mc(3arty,. focuses on the under­music of WVFI with original literature by Notre Dame students, ·AM,groul'!d dance s~ne on the rise inChiGf;l.go, Detroit and other Each week a guest joins Miranda in the booth to read and dis~ acr-oss the country. Updates on rav~ scenes in the area cuss their own personal poetry or prose. the techno and · · sounds that shake the 
sm~aKers '""'m<>i~" Domers get··. · $tafi on their week~ 
'., ..J .. 
. tJ-=: • 

TOP20 ALBUMS 
I. Encomium -Tribute to Led Zepplin 
2. 
Mad Season -Above 

3. 
Collective Soul -Collective Soul 

4. 
Bruce Springsteen -Greatest Hits 

5. 
Dave Matthews -Under the Table and Dreaming 

6. 
Freddy Jones Band -Freddy Jones Band 

7. 
Matthew Sweet -I00% Fun 

8. 
Elton John -Made in England 

9. 
Live -Throwing Copper I0. Hootie and the Blowfish ­


Cracked Rear View 

I I. New Order -Best of New Order 
12. 
Tom Petty -Wildflowers 

13. 
2Pac -Me Against the World 

14. 
Morphine-Yes 

15. 
Pulp Fiction Soundtrack 

16. 
Cranberries -No Need to Argue 

17. 
Dave Matthews Band -Remember Two Things 

18. 
Stevie Wonder -Conversations 

19. 
Blues Traveler-Four 

20. 
Mike Watt-Ball-Hog or Tug-Boat 


The Top 20 is compiled from Tracks sales records, week ending March 26th. Tracks is a local record store. 
ll TOP20 CUTS 

I. Archers of Loaf-"Vee Vee" 

2. 
The Queers-"Surf Goddess" 

3. 
Sinkhole-"Space Freak" 

4. 
Stone Roses-"Second Coming" 

5. 
Face to Face-"Big Choice" 

6. 
Edsel-"No. 5 Recitative" 

7. 
Jon Spencer Blues Explosion­"Orange" 

8. 
Ben Lee-"Grandpaw Would" 

9. 
Man or Astroman?-"Inside the 


Head of..." I0. The Potatomen-"Now" 
I I. Various Artists-"jerky Boys" Soundtrack 
12. 5 Style-"Kiki's Cookout" 
-
13. 
Pansy Division-"Pile Up" 

14. 
Poster Children-"Junior Citizen" 

15. 
Sebadoh-"Rebound" 

16. 
Tearn Dresch-"Our Personal Best" 

17. 
Various Artists-"Cupid's Revenge" 

18. 
Belly-"King" 

19. 
Various Artists-"Periscope" 

20. 
Milk-"Get Off My Log' I Spam" Compiled for March 19th -March 26th 


« 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 1995 
• NIT CHAMPIONSHIP 
Hokies beat Eagles 65-64 
Associated Press 
Shawn Smith made two free throws with less than a second left in overtime to give Virginia Tech a 65-64 victory over Marquette for the NIT champi­onship Wednesday night. 
Smith, who finished with 24 points, was fouled by Faisal Abraham as he went up for a shot under the basket with seven-tenths of a second re­maining. The junior forward made his first free throw to tie the game, then sank his second after Marquette called a time­out to make him think about it. 
Marquette then inbounded

.. 
the ball to Anthony Pieper just across midcourt, but he could­n't get a shot off before the buzzer sounded. 
Smith, a 67 percent free throw shooter during the sea­son, made 10 of 12 Wednesday night. 
It was the second NIT title for Virginia Tech (25-10), which 
also won the final in overtime over Notre Dame in 1973. Marquette, which won the NIT in 1970, finished at 21-12. 
Aaron Hutchins scored the first basket of overtime to put Marquette ahead 59-57. But Tech, which beat Marquette 57-54 on Jan. 17, then scored six straight points to take a 63­59lead. 
Marquette countered with a 5-0 run to move ahead 64-63 on a driving layup by Pieper with 18 seconds left. Tech then ran down the clock and Smith was fouled after making a pump fake near the basket. 
Smith, who grabbed 12 re­bounds, was voted the tourna­ment MVP. Shawn Good added 14 points for the Hokies. 
Hutchins and Tony Miller each scored 15 points for Marquette. Amal McCaskill had 13 points and 15 rebounds. 
Trailing by nine points mid­way through the second half, Virginia Tech rallied to tie it at 55 on Smith's free throw with 

1:59 remaining in regulation. 
After Roney Eford's free throw put Marquette up 56-55, Tech took its first lead of the second half on two foul shots by Good with 49 seconds left. 
Hutchins made one of two from the line to tie it at 57 with 33 seconds remaining. Virginia Tech then set up for a possible winning shot, but Myron Gulliory missing a driving shot in the lane. 
Marquette got the rebound and Pieper's halfcourt shot bounced off the front of the rim as time expired. 
Marquette, which led 27-21 at halftime, increased its advantage to 42-33 on a 3­pointer by Hutchins with 11:44 left. But Tech then went on an 18-11 run to cut the Golden Eagles' lead to 53-51 with 3:56 remaining. 
Ace Custis and Smith each had six points for Tech during the spurt. 

Even with senior point guard Tony Miller's 15 points, the Golden Eagles couldn't knock out the Hokies. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
•  NOTICES ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: Are you looking for that service pro­ject that really makes a difference, and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ther... THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT Youth Mentoring at the NE Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30 meet at room 161 or Main Circle Questions? -Brian Tierney x1 058 *** QUEER FOLK of ND/SMC *** There will be an organizational meeting at 7:30pm tonight. Call the Q-line 287-6665 for more informa­tion about QFND/SMC. And remember to Smile and be PROUDI Susanne Hardiman is 21 and a day! $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323-2342 Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60, FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­NEE. 219-773-2034. LETHAL WEAPON 1 Thurs. 8/1 0:30 Montgomery Theatre PULP FICTION FRI. & SAT. 8/10:30 CUSHING AUDITORIUM DANCE DANCE DANCE DANCE Notre Dame and St. Mary's stu­dents will be performing in Artmoves ... 3131 and 4/1 8pm 4/2 2:30 in O'Laugh, SMC,$2 Student choreographers premiere original works!! CONCERT CONCERT CONCERT Sunshine Wine will be playing in full form, kinda, we think, tonight at the hip-Jazzmen's. Thank you lor your support. ILOST & FOUND I If you picked up the wrong IRISH jacket at Debartolo computer lab Mon 3127, I have yours, and it's WAY too big for me-call x2880 to switch FOUND WOMAN'S RING IN OBRT, SEC­OND FLOOR. CALL 2954 POSTED: $ 250.00 Reward For the retrieval or info leading to the retrieval of my stolen mountain bike. Brand: Cadex Alm-1, 18", Front suspension Color: metalic silver and wine­berry red. -Do the right thing, Please !!! No questions asked. Call Brian 234-4322  Found over 40 ladies undergar­ments in room 864 of the Cancun Palace. To claim your undergar­ment, contact Matt or Mike at 1­407-277-2124 Found-3-way channel switcher @ Architecture Bldg on Sat.3/25 Call Pete @ 233-5130 LOST: Navy blue Gant jacket with brown leather sleeves. Reward! Call John @ x3589 ***FOUND*** Car key and attachment. Sat. night between Zahm and Keenan. Call x4622. WANTED COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER­SON, coed Mass. Swimming, ten­nis, baseball, basketball, soccer, sailing, windsurfing, waterskiing, arts/crafts, theatre, woodworking, rocketry, archery, judo, yearbook, photography, video, radio, comput­er, MOREl Super kids, great food, friendly, fun! NO general coun­selors. 800-STAFF95 ENVIRONMENTAL JOBS FOR THE SUMMER. Earn $2500-$3500 & Free the Planet Campaign to save endangered species, promote recycling and stop polluters. Work with major environmental gruops like the PIRGS, Sierra club & Green Corps. Positions in 33 states & D.C. Campus Interviews: March 30 & 31 Call Jamie: 1-800-75-EARTH An Tostal1995 needs artists again. Looking lor Logo for "Quest for the Crown" Submit something to SUB office by Friday. Call Tom at 1563 with questions. I NEED YOU I I NEED YOU! Looking for a ride to Knoxville, Tennessee for Easter Break. If your going to or through, could I ride with you? Call Larry at 634-3597 if you can help. Thanks. Wanted:Guitarist & drummer for previously succeslul, profitable rock band. Must be here in summer. Call John at 237-9075. NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits & bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55842 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information cal 1­206-634-0468 ext. C55844  Need ride to Chicago's NW suburbs on Fri. March 31. Call Rob x4333 Looking lor part-time athletic instructors lor the National Youth Sports Program at Notre Dame. This program targets economically disadvantaged 10 to 16-year-old children by providing them with sports instruction, drug and alcohol prevention, career information, and nutritional lunches. This is an opportunity lor students who will be attending summer school to supple­ment their income while giving to the community. Applicants must possess the ability to instruct one or more of the following sports: tennis, volleyball. swimmming, track, bas­ketball, soccer, and softball. They must also enjoy working with chil­dren and be service-oriented. The dates of the NYSP 1995 camp are July 3 through August 5. There is one week of mandatory training from June 26 through 30. The hours are 1:30-4:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. Please call289-4540 or 631-6614 for an interview. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY­MENT! EARN THOUSANDS THIS SUMMER IN CANNERIES, PROCESSORS, ETC. MALE/FEMALE. ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 ext A1082 AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­4398 ext. C1082. WANT '86-'88 2-DR. BLAZER, JIMMY, OR CHEROKEE. CALL ED@ 291-1011 OR 287-0616 Summer Camp Staff: Camp Chateaugay in the beautiful Adirondacks is looking for coun­selors that can instruct in the follow­ing activities: Tennis, Basketball, Sailing, Windsurfing, Gymnastics, Woodworking, Canoeing. Please call Laurie at 1-800-487-3866 SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1-800-786-8373 FOR RENT NEED Fm to share 4bdrm home next sc yr WALK TO CLASS 289­9420 HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595 2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3 BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM­PUS.272-6306  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­HOOD FURNISHED HOMES NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 STUDENTS 2773097 RENT FROM US for SUMMER! BIG 2br apt w/ wash/dry CLOSE to NO! call273-0182 Brenda, Sarah, Julie HOUSE FOR 4 STUDENTS (PREF. GRAD., SAME GENDER). NEAR CAMPUS. SECURITY SYS­TEM. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD. FREE SUMMER STORAGE. AVAIL. AUG.-MAY. CALL 233-5698 OR 233-8444. FOR SALE '90 red ford escort, new tires, good condition, $4,000 634-4098 NEAR CAMPUS 2 BDRM HOME. 2 LOTS. BASEMENT. GARAGE. $29,900. GILLIS REAL­TY272-6306 For Sale -Duplexes 1 0 min. from Notre Dame. 2 bedroom & 3 avail­able. Priced to sell. 272-8555 am 272-9716 pm For Sale: '84 red cavalier 93,000 miles minty call Mike 277-2631 with best offer TICKETS round-trip tix to KC over Easter 4­sale 4-1397 ask for Scott Need grad tix. PLEASE Max@ x1173 PERSONAL 000 The Copy Shop 000 LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!!! Phone 631-COPY THE SECOND CITY RETURNS!!! Washington Hall Wed., April12 Tickets are $3... on sale now at Lafortune Info Desk Get them now; it WILL SELL OUT! X-RAY ROGER JIMMY LIVE AT CORBY'S APR. 1 & CLUB 23 APRIL 8. SHOW STARTS AT 10. THE VIEWPOINT DEPARTMENT is hiring lor positions. Help shape editorial content and get the opportunity to write the Inside Column too. Just think of it! Call Mike at 631-4541 lor info. Or see related ad in Ieday's paper.  SYNCHRONIZED SWIMMING SPRING SHOW!! Saturday, April1 Rolfs Aquatic Center, 7:00 pm Free Admission Thurs. April 6 is BADIN COMEDY NrrE. A chance for campus come­dians to strut their stuff and win CASH! If you have a friend who makes you laugh or if YOU think you're pretty Iunny, and would like to try stand-up comedy call MK @ x2735. ATTENTION: QUEER FOLKS of ND/SMC will be holding an organizational meeting tonight at 7:30. Call the Q line lor more information 287-6665. And Have a GAY DAY! LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER! After 3 kids, I lost 23 lbs., went from size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly 1-800-209-2150 I need 4 tickets for graduation. Can anyone help? CALL GREGG 273-2871 JUNIORS: *THERE WILL BE A CASH BAR AT THE UNION STATION PARTY ON FRIDAY NIGHT MARCH 31 '$1 SURPRISE RAFFLE TRIP IS THE MAIN DOOR PRIZE. $3 COVER INCLUDES 1 RAFFLE TIX *FREE TRANSPO BUSES WILL BE AVAILABLE AT MAIN & LIBRARY CIRCLE STARTING AT 8:30 AND 9PM. THE BUSES WILL RUN TO AND FROM EVERY HOUR AND HALF HOUR GOING TO THE BILLY JOEL /ELTON JOHN CONCERT IN INDY THIS FRIDAY? NEED A RIDE? LEAVING FRI. & RETURNING SAT. AM. CALL JILL AT 4-4976. SUNSHINE WINE SUNSHINE WINE SUNSHINE WINE Tribute concert for Kim Tonight: JAZZMANS SUNSHINE WINE SUNSHINE WINE SUNSHINE WINE CAVANAUGH invites you: ***APRIL FOOL'S BASH'" Sat April 1st 10pm Naugh basement  IF YOU SMOKE CAMEL CIGA­RETTES, CALL 2954 NAZZ GSW NAZZ GSW NAZZ GS NAZZ is this Friday, March 31st at 8PM in Stepan Center. The event is FREE. Come see your favorite bands com­pete in the event that will change the world!! II Appearing will be: VIC KEVLAR Q.E.D. LEONARD JONES POTENTIAL TWEAK TRUE NORTH SPOONFED KRAUTMEISER THE ROAD APPLES DECAF SABOR LATINO SWEEP THE LEG JOHNNY GEORGE AND THE FREEKS THE BIG EARL BAND SUNSHINE WINE GLAMORAS GLUES (Once again the event is !reel!) Also, come see the winner of NAZZ open lor GOO STREET WINE Saturday, April 1st at 8 PM in Stepan Tickets are available NOW ($6 Students, $8 Non-Students) at the Lafortune Info Desk and at the door. Doors open lor both events at 7pm. GSW NAZZ GSW NAZZ GSW NAZ Hi, mom and dad! Love, Andrea STUNT BABIES STUNT BABIES! STUNT BABIES!!! Kat -Its our last linallour... sob. Who am I going to Whoo Pig Sooie with next year? It doesn't matter. man, its all about Carolina! OK, Yoda, we must abandon all reason and go for the challenge!! Finals?? What finals? I just hope we don't break down, for your sake, that isl (Check out the ad lor a guitarist! It has your name written all over it!) Hey Ann, I'm excited. Really, I swear. M-You're finally going out on a Thursday! My only request is that you don't suggest crazy things lor me to do (especially if they deal with phones or doors). You know I will do them, and I always regret it later. Also, watch out because I oweyou. -T JJ-Watch out lor the paddle ball. She's armed and dangerous and she wants your blood.  
•  

Thursday, March 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Knicks knock off Pistons in final quarter, 107-97 
By HANK LOWENKRON Associa1rd Press 
Hubert Davis scored five points in the final minutes and Patrick Ewing had 18 points in the second half as the New York Knicks beat the Detroit Pistons 107-97 Wednesday. 
·The victory snapped the Knicks' two-game losing streak, while the Pistons lost for the ninth time in 11 games. 
With New York leading 92-90 with 4:30 to go, Davis scored the next five points to give the Knicks some breathing room. 
John Starks added 19 for New York, while Detroit's Allan Houston scored 32 points and Grant Hill had 26 points, 12 re­bounds and 9 assists. Hill missed his first career triple­double when Oliver Miller missed a dunk late in the game. 
Joe Dumars and Hill com-
quarter that got the Pistons to 60-56. The Knicks increased their lead to 73-62 and Starks' 3-pointer to finish the period gave New York an 81-73 mar­gin going into the final quarter. 
The Detroit bench didn't score until Lindsey Hunter's layup with 10:48 left in the game. That basket started an eight-point Piston run that pulled them to 84-83 with 9:19 to go. Two of the points came on free throws after New York's Anthony Mason was assessed a technical foul and ejected from the game for arguing a foul call.Detroit led 23-22 at the end of the period, but the Knicks started the second quarter with a 20-5 run, including 16 points from their reserves. 
That put the Knicks up 42-28, but Detroit closed within six points before New York estab­lished its 10-point halftime 

bined on a 9-2 run early in ~tho;,;e;..,.~:.:;;;:.;----------. 
ABelated 
Happy 21st 
Birthday 
~t ; to our -1~~ 1B3ft@IID.[t W@J]]lcmiD.
t;J_.........._~
..,,.,, ,· r~·  We love you,  
Mom, Dad, &  
Shaye  


By MIKE NADEL Associa1ed Press 
DEERFIELD, Ill. Michael Jordan used to call them "my supporting cast." 
They were Jordan's team­mates, good enough to help him and the Chicago Bulls win NBA championships in 1991, 1992 and 1993, not nearly good enough to take the title without the retired Jordan in 1994. 
Jordan is now five games into his second tour of duty. And by all accounts, his supporting cast is not as good as it was during the championship era. 
Tuesday, the Bulls needed 55 points from Jordan to beat New York 113-111. Had the Knicks not bricked 10 second-half free throws, they would have won despite Jordan's virtuoso per­formance. 
"I hope I won't have to score 55 points every time," Jordan said after Wednesday's prac­tice. "Last night, it was offense. Thursday (against Boston at home), it might be something else. I've always been able to make up where the team is lacking." 
In the first half, Jordan scored 35 points on 14-of-19 shooting to keep Chicago close. His teammates: 15 points, 4-of­17, 10 turnovers. 
"It was a great game," Bulls coach Phil Jackson said. "They played as well as they could. And we played -at least Michael Jordan played -as well as I've seen him play. It was officially the culmination of his return to the game." 
Still, there's the underlying, nagging question: 
Is Jordan's supporting cast good enough to help Michael win another title? 
"Four or five years ago, there were some dominant teams, so I don't think we would have had a chance," backup guard Steve Kerr said. "But with the league now, we have as good a chance as anybody. Right now, we have a lot of confidence. We have Superman on our team." 
Three of Superman's steady sidekicks -Bill Cartwright, John Paxson and Horace Grant -left the team after last sea­son. 
Call-271-0104 
ound asf=er 
DJ Service 
} ~ $50.00 Off 
4 Hour Event } 
Not Previously $ehe~ule~ 
Instead of Cartwright, who contained some of the league's best big men at playoff time, the Bulls have a center-by-com­mittee system. Will Perdue is an offensive liability whom Jackson left off last season's playoff roster. Luc Longley is foul-prone. Slow-footed Bill Wennington has defensive de­ficiencies. 
Instead of Paxson, the heady guard with the automatic jump shot, the Bulls have B.J. Armstrong. Like Paxson, Armstrong is a fine shooter. Unlike the patient Paxson, Armstrong gets antsy and tends to force things if he's not shoot­ing enough. Jordan often mesh­es better with Kerr, a Paxson clone. 
Instead of Horace Grant, the tenacious rebounder and de­fender whose mobility at power forward keyed the Bulls' full­court press, the Bulls have tal­ented but enigmatic Toni Kukoc. 
The skinny Kukoc, really a 6­foot-11 guard, is weak defen­sively and soft on the boards. He's a gifted passer and ball­handler but has spent much of the past five games watching Jordan. 
"It could be that he's intimi­dated by my presence," Jordan said. "I think he's got a lot of confusion. My conversation to him is, 'Relax and play and let the game come to you. It's nat­ural to try to prove -and when you try to prove, you don't. Sometimes, you have to go out there and enjoy the game."' 

T<»II.I_g;h~= 
~e~coii-~o~I 
a..~ LI_II-coiii-~~7 ~es~ 
SI .50/Game and S I .40 for shoes 24 Lanes Reserved from 9:30-II :30 p.m. 
T<»m.<»~~<»~= 
J--..II-j_or UI~ss ~~sh_ 
at Union Station from 9 p.m. to I a.m. 
$3 

Surprise Raffle Trip Cash Bar Food 
OJ 

Buses available at Library and Main Circle 
Lagging Bulls look to Jordan 
I-------~-----­
------~-----­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 30, 1995 
Woeful Mavs near playoffs Weatherspoon leads 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN Associated Press 
DALlAS 

The once-woeful Dallas Mavericks have hit the 30-vic­tory mark and are bearing down on the Denver Nuggets and Sacramento Kings for the eighth playoff spot in the NBA Western Conference. 
"If your heart is beating and your blood is pumping, you've got to take a look at the stand­ings now," Dallas coach Dick Motta said. 
The Mavericks are two games behind Denver and three be­hind Sacramento with a tough road trip on the horizon. They play at Charlotte, New York and 
.­
Boston in the next three games. 
"We'll know more about our playoff chances after we come off the next road trip," Motta said. "If we are going to make the playoffs we have to win at least one and possibly two of th.e games." 
There are 15 games left on the Dallas schedule. 
Dallas won only 24 games in the last two seasons. But Motta, who abruptly resigned· as coach in 1987, has turned things 
Football 
continued from page 20 
an offensive guard, and run­ning back Larry Wright will move to the defensive backfield. 
On the other side of the ball, Holtz feels that the offense has made tremendous improvement over the off-season. 
"I feel our offensive line has made a great deal of improve­ment in the off-season," he said. "The attitude of the of­fensive line and the whole atti­tude of the team is...one of determinism." 
Staying sharp without Blunt: Quarterback, receiver and run­ning back Leon Blunt will not practice with the Irish this spring and may no longer play with them either. 
"I think Leon Blunt is 
around in his first season back. 
"We're having a lot of fun now," said Jamal Mashburn. "We've won 30 games and we only won 13 all of last year. It's a great feeling. There's not much you can say about last year. We have some coaching now." 
Quinn Buckner was fired after the Mavs' disastrous season in which Mashburn chaffed under what he considered a dictatori­al rule. 
"Coach Motta brings us stability, structure, and experi­ence," Mashburn said. "He brought fun back to basket­ball." 
Mashburn said there has been some "ridiculous talk" that the Mavs shouldn't get into the playoffs because they'd miss a lottery pick. 
"That doesn't make any sense," Mashburn said. "We've got to win this for ourselves. This is what we've worked so hard for." 
Dallas, which hadn't won five straight games since 1990, has won eight of its last nine games, including a 114-93 whipping of the Milwaukee Bucks on 
considering transferring to another school," Holtz said. "I don't think there is any chance he will be able to participate this spring." 
Those evil polls: Speaking out against the way Penn State and the Irish, in the past, were robbed of the National Championships, Holtz proposed to do away with the current polling system and implement a computer ranking system. 
"I have always felt that you ought to determine your college rankings by a computer," he said. "You getw_so many points for every game you win and so many points for every game your opponent wins and so many points for every game your opponent's opponent wins. You get absolutely no points for beating a division II team. 
"You can explain why 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
come see the cultural sights ofChicago 


purchase tickets by FRIDAY, MARCH 31 brought to you by. 

Tuesday night. The Mavs are 10-6 since star forward Jim Jackson, their highest scorer, sustained an ankle injury. 
Jackson could be back within a week. 
"If we can hang in there until Jim gets back there is no telling what we can do," Mashburn said. 
"We play better on the road than we do at home," said Dallas guard Jason Kidd. "We should do OK. I know one thing. We have accomplished 30 wins and everybody should be happy with that." 
Forward Popeye Jones said "nobody in Dallas thought we would win 30 games. If we got into the playoffs it would just shock some more people." 
Kidd said the Mavs shouldn't be thinking playoffs just yet. 
"Our playoff chances are still on the backburner," he said. "Our goal is trying to bring ex­citement back into this building (Reunion Arena). It's nice to come to work. Everybody is smiling and happy. From what I've heard it wasn't that way last year." 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA 
Clarence Weatherspoon was in the right spot at the right time, and that turned into a rare victory for the Philadelphia 76ers. 
"That was a great effort by everybody," Weatherspoon said after the 76ers defeated the Charlotte Hornets 99-81 Wednesday night for just their fllth win in23 games. 
"I had some great looks at the basket, and I was getting the ball in great position. I just hope we can carry this energy against Portland on Friday night." 
Weatherspoon played 46 min­utes, scored 28 points and grabbed 12 rebounds for the Sixers, who piled up a 54-28 rebound advantage over the Hornets. The five Philadelphia starters scored 90 of the 76ers' points. 
Sharone Wright and Dana Barros each added 18 points and Jeff Grayer had 16 for the 76ers, who had lost 10 of their 
76ers over Hornets 
last 11 games. 
Larry Johnson had 22 points for the Hornets, who lost start­ing forward Scott Burrell for the season with a ruptured right Achilles tendon in the first period. 
"That was a very good win for us," said Philadelphia coach John Lucas. "We really re­bounded the ball very well, and I thought Clarence Weatherspoon was outstanding. And Shawn Bradley (10 points, 15 rebounds) gave us another outstanding game." 
Charlotte coach Allan Bristow was very unhappy with his team's performance. 
"We weren't sharp at all tonight. We can't come into these games against the lesser teams if we're not ready to play and expect to win. We just had no rhythm at all tonight." 
Regarding his team's lack of rebounding, Bristow said, "We're a very small team, and they have a young, strong front line. We seem to get disjointed when we play bigger teams." 

Nebraska won the National Championship; you cannot ex­plain why Penn State did not." 
In the Army now: If the ad­ministration approves, Holtz plans to take the team to Culver Military Academy for a week during fall practice. He hopes to practice without disruption and create a greater sense of camaraderie among his play­ers. 
"I just think we need to spend a little bit more time together during two-a-days," he said. "It developes a camaraderie and I want to make football as good an experience as we can for them." 

Thursday, March 30, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Tulsa's Tubby Smith Harrick, UCLA confident 
leaves for Georgia 
By DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
TULSA, Okla. 

Tubby Smith, who led Tulsa to the NCAA tournament's final 16 the past two years, resigned today and was expected to be­come coach at Georgia. 
·"Much of the credit for the rise of TU's basketball program to its present level is directly attributable to the efforts and hard work of Tubby Smith and his coaching stall" Tulsa presi­dent Hobert Donaldson said. 
Georgia scheduled an after­noon news conference in Athens to address the Bulldogs' coaching vacancy. Georgia ath­letic director Vince Dooley was looking to replace Hugh Durham, who was fired March 19 after 17 years. 
The 43-year-old Smith took over a Tulsa team that had lost favor in the community since Nolan Richardson left in 1985 for Arkansas. In four years, he restored excitement with an uptempo style. 
Until last year, the Golden Hurricane had never won a first-round game in the NCAA tournament. Tulsa upset UCLA and Oklahoma State in last year's tournament, and beat Illinois and Old Dominion this year to get to the round of 16, losing last weekend to Massachusetts in the East Regional semifinals. 
"In his four years he has gained the respect of the com­munity, state and region," Donaldson said. "He not only has taken the Tulsa program to a level never attained on the basketball court, but he and (his wife) Donna have become solid fixtures in many commu­nity activities." 
Smith met with his players in the morning, then boarded a private jet for Georgia, a source close to the program told The Associated Press. 
A player confirmed Smith met with the team and that the coach said Georgia had offered him the job. 
Dooley had received permis­sion Monday to interview Smith along with three other candi­dates, Tulane coach Perry Clark, Wake Forest coach Dave Odom and Miami of Ohio coach Herb Sendek. 
Smith was 79-43 at Tulsa, in­cluding consecutive Missouri Valley Conference regular sea­son titles. 

By JIM COUR 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

UCLA's Jim Barrick sounded almost too confident, almost' cocksure. 
He wasn't cautiously opti­mistic like Nolan Richardson of defending champion Arkansas, Dean Smith of North Carolina and Eddie Sutton of Oklahoma State. Each expressed confi­dence, but with the proper amount of doubt, too. 
"I feel good," Barrick said during a telephone news con­ference Wednesday. "If you didn't think that, you probably shouldn't come." 
As NCAA Final Fours go, Harrick is a rookie. When the top-ranked Bruins (29-2) play 
Knight 
continued from page 20 
get moved around a bit too much last season, but due to the fact that he was academi­cally ineligible, could do noth­ing to remedy the situation. 
"Last season was definitely tough to watch, but it was a sit­uation I put myself in. I'm look­ing at this spring as a fresh start." 
The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring 
BARTENDERS 
for the 95-96 season. 
Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Oklahoma State (27 -9) in the NCAA tournament semifinals in the Kingdome on Saturday, it'll be Barrick's first game as a coach in the Final Four. 
He'll be giving away a lot of big-game coaching experience to the likes of Richardson, Smith and Sutton, who have coached in Final Fours before. Smith is coached Final Four teams in four decades. 
"That sounds old," Smith said with a chuckle. 
And wise. 
Smith said all the right things about Saturday's other semifi­nal, between North Carolina (28-5) and Arkansas (31-6). 
"I think it should be an excit­ing game if we can handle their excellent pressure defense," Smith said. "But this could be 
Admittedly, that start wasn't as smooth as Knight would have liked yesterday, but he ex­pected the layoff would have some impact. 
"I was definitely rusty," Knight said. "But I'm sure it will come along. I'm just look­ing to get back into action and hopefully work my way into the starting line-up. If not, I'll play whatever role is needed." 
The one role Knight will not be playing is that of the forgot­ten man. 
DANCING IN THE DARK 
The Irish opened their 1995 spring practices in the lightless confines of the Loftus center yesterday. Before the Irish took to the practice field the Notre our last game." 
Barrick has reason to be con­fident. His Bruins have won 17 games in a row, including a 102-96 victory over Connecticut in last Saturday's West Regional final at Oakland, Calif. 
"We have made a great run through our conference, which is a very, very good confi­dence," Barrick said. "We beat Kentucky and Louisville and Notre Dame and North Carolina State and Duke. We've gone out and played anybody we could possibly schedule." 
UCLA last won a national title 20 years ago in San Diego. It was the last of John Wooden's 10 in a dizzying 12-year run. 
The Bruins are back in the Final Four for the first time since 1980 when nomadic 

Must be 21+ by September, 1995. 
DEADLINE: March 31, 1995 
Dame power plant blew a transformer leaving the Irish with only sunlight from opened doors as illumination. 
TRADING PLACES 
Yesterday marked the debut of several Irish at new posi­tions. Probably most notable was the shift of to-be sopho­more Ty Goode from wide receiver to defensive back. 
Additonally, the defensive line gained two new member. Senior Mike McCullough shifted to the defensive side of the ball, along with David Quist. 
One other positional note : Emmett Mosley, part-time flanker, part-time tailback, was used exclusively at the receiver position. 
TAKING THE JuneLSAT? 
Come Take A FREE Practice Test And Attend An Informational Seminar 
Saturday. April 8th at 9;OOam 
• Take afull length, proctored LSAT CJtam. 
Thesday. April 11th at 7i00pm 
··::;~:. 
• Receive a detailed score report that pinpoints our test.ta.ldng strengths 
andweakn~. 

• Learn about the fOm!:at and oontent of the LSAT, how it's used in the admissions process and valuable test-taking teclinlquea that em help raise your LSAT aoores. 

THEPRINCETON~ _ REVIEW _ 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or ETS. 
CASTING & ANGLING CouRsE 
Four Sessions Tuesday 6:00-7:30 PM Open to Students & Staff $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS u f\l ~s 
APRIL 4 APRIL 11 APRil. 18 APRIL 25 

Classes Held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
Opportunity to Purchase Fishing Gear at Discounted Rates 
page 16 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Thursday, March 30, 1995 
• RAPIST RELEASED 


Tyson will make public announcement today 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND 
Former heavyweight cham­
pion Mike Tyson emerged from 
seclusion Wednesday and met 
with his probation officer in 
Youngstown. 
His three-car entourage made the 30-minute trip to the office. Tyson, wearing a dark business suit and a red tie, was accompanied by his body­guards, Trumbull sheriff's deputies and companion Monica Turner, the Tribune Chronicle of Warren reported. 
Tyson is planning to make his first public comments Thursday at noon at a news conference at Gund Arena in Cleveland. He will read a statement and then leave without taking questions, said Cynthia Case, a spokes­woman for the arena. 
On Wednesday, Tyson re-
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
Notre Dame (10-10) attempt­ed a comeback in the bottom of the ninth. Scott Sollman and Amrhein led off the inning by drawing walks, and Sollman scored on a Ryan Topham sin­gle. Amrhein scored next on a 
J.J. Brock ground-out, and a Christian Parker single drove in pinch runner Craig Allen to bring the Irish within one. Unfortunately, the rally and Notre Dame's two-game win­ning streak ended on a Justin Scholl grounder to short. 
Bowling Green used five pitchers. Mike Chaney earned his first win as he was perfect for two innings, striking out 

ported to his probation officer, 
Dennis Almasi. They met for 
about 50 minutes before Tyson 
and the entourage left and re­
turned to his home in 
Southington, a rural area of 
Trumbull County. 

Almasi said he is forbidden 
by law to talk about Tyson's 
case or to have any relationship 
with him beyond professional. 

"I can't even take a cup of coffee from him," he said. 
Almasi told the Tribune Chronicle on Tuesday that Tyson will get no special treat­ment. He will be on probation for the next four years. 
'Til do the best I can to treat him like any other proba­tioner," Almasi said. 
Tyson was released Saturday from the Indiana Youth Center, where he served nearly three years of a six-year sentence on a rape conviction. 
four. 
No Irish players had more 
than one hit, and the Falcons' 
pitchers recorded 10 strikeouts. 
"We just didn't compete hard today," Mainieri said. "We need to play more aggressively, and ifI have to put (pitchers) Tim Kraus and Craig Allen in the everyday line-up I will." 
Notre Dame and sophomore left-bander Gregg Henebry will take on the Cincinnati Bearcats today at 4 p.m., again at the Eck. 
"In order to win we are going to have to come out more aggressively," Mainieri says. "We've had some injuries that have limited our options, but you have to play with the hand you're dealt with. 
"We are going to have to play that hand more competitively." 
We'll take 20°/o off when you leave campus with a Hertz Penske truck rental! We've got everything you need to make moving easy -a modern, clean fleet ... free unlimited mileage on one way moves ... convenient coast-to-coast locations ... a free moving guide ... and all the accessories to get the job done. For reservations, call the location below, or check the Yellow Pages for the Hertz Penske location nearest you. 
South Bend (North): 277·0144 
South Bend (South): 291·1414 

1 --------------------­
Leaving campus? 
I 

1 Rent a truck from Hertz Penslce and get a 20% 1 discount on your one wa.v truck rental. 
I I I

l 200/o 200/o I I 
I ·pENSKE I
DISCOUNT DISCOUNT 

I I
Truck Rental

I I
Affordable, new, clean tru~ at connnlent rental locations

I I
• 10'-24' trucks available • Automatic transmission and

I I
• Free unlimited mileage air conditioning 

L 
I on one way rentals • 24-hour emergency road service I I Ell..:-April 1, 18115 I -\1\ru July 31,1995 II A ..one way rental'" means your Hertz Penske lriJCk is rented in one city and returned to another Hertz Penake 11 a serviCe of Penske Truck LeaSing Co 
..J 

Irish square off against Illini 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 

Just the name Notre Dame seems to have some sort of magical emotional impact on whatever opponent is slated to take on the Irish. It may be in­explicable, but it is real. If you want proof, head out to the Eck Tennis Pavilion at 3 p.m. to see the Irish women's tennis team square off against the Fightin' Illini of Illinois. 
"For some reason, whenever they play us, they come out really fired up and ready to play," Irish junior Holyn Lord noted. "It's a rivalry for them but really not for us. Still, we'll be fired up too." 
Today will mark Notre 
Attention: 
Dame's first Thursday match, 
as the Irish schedule has basi­
cally settled into a pattern of 
weekend matches. Though the 
usual routine will be broken, 
the Irish don't foresee a prob­
lem. 

"I really don't think the change will bother us," Lord noted. "But it is our only match this week, so the week­end will definitely be a nice break. We can all use it." 
Today's match will begin a crucial stretch of regional matches for Jay Louderback's squad. The Irish have won their only regional match (Michigan) of the season, but see themselves in a position to earn the Midwest Regional au­tomatic bid to the NCAA tour­nament. 
"These next eight games will be really important for our sea­son," Lord said. "If we win them all, we should be in great shape for the bid. That would be very nice but it is something I really try not to think about 
though." 

One think the Irish do need to think about is getting their dou­bles play a bit more consistent. They entered Saturday's Tennessee match tied after the singles, but dropped two of the three double matches. 
Illinois could be a good reme­dy for those woes. 
"They haven't done very well this season, but we'll be ready," Louderback said. 
Celebrate a friend's 
~~asyli,~t!ili 
birthday with 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants,
a special 
Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square ( 
1 
51400 31 North 
27., _

Observer ad. 
219, 129

South Bend, IN 46637 1 

Class of 1997! 
Are you looking for involvement in your Junior Class? Are you interested in planning class activities and social events? Junior Class Council could be for you .. 
Applications are available in the Student Government Office of 2nd floor LaFortune and are due by Friday, April 7th. 
SYRACUSE ABROAD 

• Earn academic credits by taking classes at the S.U. center or at British universities 
There's a world beyond your campus. 
• 
The only foreign language you'll have to know is English 

• 
Travel throughout England and share a flat with other students 

• 
Internships are available 

• 
Financial aid also available 


London, England 
Call now for more information. 
Su also bas Centers in Italy, Spain, France, and Zimbabwe. 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD e 119 Euclid Avenue, ~yracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 • 315-443-3471 • DIPA@suadmm.syr.edu 


• • • ',. •'\ • .f I\ 
Thursday, March 30, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 

Bookstore announces Top 32 
One of the most important new faces will be varsity bas­ketball player Lamar Justice, who joins the Ziolkowski twins, Brian and Keith, on C.C.E. to form the team that both Bergen and Haigh were quick to name as the most dangerous in the tournament. 
"We're real excited, and defi­nitely don't think No. 4 is too high," commented Brian Ziolkowski after being told of the respect the other had for his squad. "We have a reputa­

1.)Models Inc. 2.)Rebel Alliance 3.)NBT 2 4.)C.C.E. S.)Pink Sky in the 
Morning 6.)Dos Kloskas 7 .)Showtime 8.)Cactus Jacks 9.)Hood River Bandits 
1 O.)Malicious Prosecution 
11.)ARCOLA BROOMCORN CO. 12.)KERBDOG 13.)SWOOSH 
14.)Joey Joe Jo Junior Shabadoo 
15.)Duh Plimpton•s Fat, Elusive Roosters 
16.)Brlng out the Gimp 
tion for being cocky, and by 
picking up Lamar, we're a very 
quick team." 
However, the beauty of Bookstore is that not only the top ten is dangerous. Some of the lower seeds were quick to gain respect as well. 
"Look out for All the 

President's Men," warned 
Coleman. "Besides Monk, 
they've picked up Bubba 
Cunningham, a former M.V.P., 
and Shannon Cullinan, a former 
Mr.Bookstore." 
lottOII 16 


17.)Diamondbacks 
18.)We•re the Truth,and You Can•t Handle the Truth 
19.)Sweeter Than Candy 
20.)National Rythm 
21.)CASH 
22.)AII the President's Men 
23.)Proposition 48 
24.)Back for More 
25.)Woody and 4 Other Stiffs 
26.)Ciockwork Orange 
27.)Substantial Renovation 
28.)SERIAL KILLA 
29.)L-Train 
30.)Ezekial25:17 
31.)AERODEZIAKS 
32.)Biitzkrieg 
l'lle Observer/ Brian Blank 

By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
As the number of teams dwindles and the crowds pack the courts more tightly, Bookstore Basketball is reduced to a single element: who can handle the pressure. 
For 32 top teams, the pres­sure arrived before the first no­look pass has been thrown, as the commissioners announced the top 32 seeds. 
Once the tournament field has been reduced to 16, the remaining squads will be re­seeded. 
"The top 5 seeds were pretty easy, but after that it wasn't as clear cut as last year," con­curred commissioner Pete Coleman. 
Models Inc. was selected as the top team, led by varsity basketball player Jason Williams, the football platoon of Tracy Graham and Rynaldo Wynn, who will rotate on a game by game basis, and skilled veterans Conrad James and Owen Smith, both formerly of Ebony Side of the Dome . 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek However, Models Inc. was an Junior forward Joe Haigh looks to direct NBT 2, the No. 3 seed, to a anomaly among the top ten, Sweet Sixteen appearance. 
one of the few new names among those who have been seeded year after year. Of the
!11'-________...,_,...,__________-1'1 top ten, seven are returning 
Cactus Jack's Mexican Grill &Cantina 

Martin's 
1-----------==-----------..!flpeopleswitched teams." 

TiRED OF FISH STICKS AND GRillED CHEESE? TRY FISH TACOS AND FISH BURRITOS! THEY'RE GREAT! 

(219) 277,5225 
sweet sixteen teams, including the sequel to last year's cham­pion, NBT 2, and final four squad Showtime. 
"The five of us have been playing together forever," said senior Joe Bergen of No. 2 Rebel Alliance. "There might be more talent out there, but teamwork is our biggest asset. As a team we deserve the No. 2 spot." 
As a group, however, the top teams gave little credence to the initial rankings. 
"The first seedings are a little misleading," said Bergen. "This year is very different from last year because a lot of 
Aro~!!!:~!!rwX~!!!!g
Co-Chairman, Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games 


Diversity the Key 
Hmv Atlanta Won the Olympics 
Thursday, April 6th, 8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Admission is free. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office and at the door. Sponsored by the Office ofStudent Affairs and the Office of Student Activities. 
1his lecture was made possible through a grant from the Lilly Foundation. 
Pnseoted by Notre Dame Commuoicatioa &Theatre wit.b tbt Iastitute tor SdWnhip i1 the LilmlArts 
11 UNFORGEnABLE! 
TWO VERY ENTHUSIASTIC THUMBS UP." 
-SISKEL &EBERT 
11 THRILLING...APOWERHOUSE! 
ONE OF THE BEST MOVIES OF THE YEAR!" 
-Peter Travers, ROLLING STONE 

DREAMS 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
I FRI. & SAT. MAR. 31 & APR. 1 8:00 PM ONLYI 
SPECIAL APPEARANCE FRIDAY NIGHT ONLY !!! Academy Award Nominated Editor Frederick Marx and Cinematographer Peter Gilbert will discuss the film and take questions. 



Thursday, March 30, 1995 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 
• SoFTBALL 


Ferocious Falcons foes for flailing Irish 
By NEIL ZENDER 

SportS Writer 
On Tuesday, the No. 22 ranked Notre Dame softball team's highly anticipated show­down with Michigan was 
snowed out. Today, the Irish are hop­ing to snow Bowling Green in a 3 
p.m. double­header at Ivy 

Field. Hayes 
N o t r e Dame (15-7) hasn't been on the field since sweeping a double­header against Ball State on Saturday, and this will only be their second homestand of the season. But the Irish will be more concerned about hitting the ball than getting reaccus­tomed to the Great Outdoors. 
"The big thing we need to do is get our bats going," Coach Liz Miller said. "We have a few players that are not swinging the bats aggressively. They started strong, and then lost confidence." 
But Miller feels the team is 
pulling out of the slump, belied 
by Notre Dame's 16 hits in the 
Ball State doubleheader. 
"It's not a technical thing. 
It's strictly a confidence thing." 
"We've just been thinking too 
niuch when we were up at the 
plate," senior catcher Sara 
Hayes said. "Coach has talked 
to us about having confidence 
in ourselves. Knowing we can 
hit helps a lot. Everyoner on 
our team this year is a big hit­
ter, and we just have to do it." 
The Irish will need a good 
day at the plate from Hayes, 
sophomore Elizabeth Perkins, 
and freshman centerfielder 
Jennifer Giampaolo. Bowling 
Green's .218 batting average 
has had a lot to do with their 4­
10 record. But Miller isn't 
looking past the Falcons. 
"Their record is deceiving. 
They beat Ball State 6-0." 
Notre Dame has scored only 
five runs in two games against Ball State. Bowling Green's ten losses have included some of the nation's best teams: Washington, Nebraska, Iowa, Fresno State, Oklahoma State and Cal-State Fullerton. 
Senior Falcon pitcher Lisa Mountjoy is 3-9, but has a 1.50 
E.R.A. The rest of the pitching staff is almost as good, posting a 1.86 E.R.A. 
But the Irish will counter with a potent pitching staff of their own. Notre Dame will be start Terri Kobata in the first game and Joy Battersby in the second. Kobata is off to her best start in three seasons under the Golden Dome, going 7-1 with a 0.62 E.R.A. She threw an 11 strikeout perfect game in her last appearance against Bowling Green in 1993. Battersby (7 -3) has won her last three starts. Her E.R.A. of 
1. 51 is down an entire run from last season. 
And that makes catcher Hayes happy. "It's fun catch­ing all the pitchers because everyone's developed a really good change of speed and a drop that complement each other well. That's allowed us to work on different strategies with batters." 

"It means a lot to me. They're a team we have to get two wins out of. They're going to be good. But if we go out and play hard, we're the better team." 
TONIGHT!! 
Belles serve up victory, 6-3 
By TARA KRULL and Brahler stepped up to #4 Sports Writer singles and played #1 doubles with Hrycko. 
Coming off last week's Joss to "Both Robin and Jen played DePauw University, the Saint very well," Cromer added. Mary's Tennis team captured a "They were both excellent in much needed victory Tuesday positions they don't normally night over Calvin College in play." Grand Rapids, Michigan. Sophomore Kate Kozacik was According to Belles' coach victorious at the number one 
Katie Cromer, the team per­singles spot. formed extremely well given the circumstances handed to She also paired up for a win them. with Anne Underwood at #2 
"We had a slight line-up doubles. change going into the match," Kate Marhoefer was a double Cromer said, "and everyone winner for the Belles as well at 
had to move up a step and play the #5 singles spot and with positions they normally don't play at. Everybody gave 110 percent effort." 
The Belles not only had to ad-r.==================;====:::;====================~ 
just to an altered line-up; they also battled the nasty weather conditions and ended up play­ing their matches indoors at the Riverview Raquet Club in Grand Rapids. This resulted in limited court time and meant that the Belles had to play no­add singles and 8-game pro-set doubles. 
Nevertheless, Saint Mary's 
answer to the challenge was a 
6-3 win, bringing their overall 
record to 4-5. 

Cromer noted that senior 
Robin Hrycko and freshman 
Jen Brahler both had great 
matches in their "substitute" 
positions. Hrycko played her 
role as the #6 singles player 

T 
§JK ~ ll®lK lRliJN§ 
PLUS 

lMILEWALK SATURDAY, APRIL 1,11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER 

T-SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTRANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT 
CIEIIRII§'li'lY.IA;3 IIl'i AIPJ{IIIL ~~ SPONSORED BY .~)/] ~p,.»~~<-¥--4 ~~ ~J 
Megan McGilligan at #3 dou­bles. 
Senior Nancy Waibel com­mented that the win over Calvin will serve as a confidence builder for the Belles, who hope to continue their winning streak with their match against Division I Valparaiso University next Tuesday. 
"We know now that we have what it takes to win," Waibel added. "If we continue to play the way we did against Calvin, we're in store for a great sea­son." 




Thursday, March 30, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 ., 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
t\t.'{! I CA~T GET OJT.' Il'JI SiUC.K .' \-lEU'.' 
DILBERT 
I BUILl A SPREADSHEET TO COf"\PAf\E OUR t\ELATIVE QUALITIES. I'f"\ AFRAID I'M TWENTY PERCENT TOO GOOD FOF\ YOU. 
~-L--~~~~~~~~~~~~~j_--~£~~'-~~--~--~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Alternative to 57 Imitate Rep. or Dem. 
58 Religious works 

1 Spiral-horned 
33 Solicits 
of art 

sheep 
34 Noel's hit of 
60 Studies

7Noel-­
1941 
63 Galapagos

t3 Unnumbered 37 10,000 square 
creature

spheres meters 18 First act 38 Cole's hit of 64 Made a splash 1934 65Cole-­
171t can be a charm 66 Resells for a big 
43 Mexican Indian 45 Alternative to profit

18 Butterfly, e.g. 
Rep. or Dem. 

19 Crowlike bird 
46 Sagan's "pale 20Caveat--blue dot" DOWN 
22 Shriver of tennis 47 Out of place 
1 Substances 
49 Opposite of fast 

23 Mirror logger with low pH 
51 "The Merry 

28 Sorority 2 Drink on credit
Widow"character composer 3 Hallmark 27 Volcanic island sentiment
53 L.A. summer in the Aegean zone 4 Court grp. 29 Sanction 54 Inn 5 Slip behind 6 --et-Vilaine, France 7TVhost,
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1948-63 8 Swirls and such 9Madea 
commitment to 
to Short, short, long 
t t Crack, so to
speak -=+:-+:::--+-=--4 t2 Tragedies, e.g. 
t5 Noel and Cole, e.g. 
2t -Alley 24 Three-time champ 
way 
... -~ ... -..........·....:.. ~· __·-~......~.:e.···.·..:...·... ';,.',.<,.·.... •,.!...!."...".!..~t. '...~;..:.:·.~ ..'J.:••• .·.: ..•.. :,•_..j 

SCOTT ADAMS 
r---------------------~ur---------------------~
S NO! LOOK, LIZ, '<OU f-11\VE. ~ THE. WRONG fORI'\ULA IN ~ THIS COLU/"\N' THAT MUST 
~ 
~ MEAN l HAVE 1-\IGHE R ~ MATH SKILLS THAN YOU 1 ~ WE'RE ALMOST EVEN' 
-~ 

"' ,',, j 

~  '<OU LEFT  
~  THAT ERROR  
i  IN THERE  
~ l  INTENTION­ 
~  ALLY  
:..  


28"Bali-" 30 Uses a strop 32 Tennyson's 
"Break, Break, Break," e.g. 35 Bounces back 
36 Stately 38 College athlete 39 Forty winks 
40 Return on a deposit? 4t The kick in kirsch 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

"It's a reminder from our dentist that your six­month checkup is next Wednesday at 2 o'clock." 
• OF INTEREST 

Cynthia Weber, Assistant Professor from Purdue University will give a lecture entitled "Sovereignty and Intervention with Special Reference to Haiti" in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center at 12:15pm today. 
"The Construction of Women's Work and FamilyLives" talk by Frances Goldscheider, Brown University, 4;15pm in room 122 Hayes-Healy today. Reception to follow. 
George Ross from Brandeis University will lecture on "The Delors Era and the Future of European lnte· gration" in C103 of the Hesburgh Center, today at 4:15pm. 
Meet Your Major today. The following sessions will be held in O'Shaugnessy. Romance Languages will be presented in rm. 115 from 5-6 p.m. Medieval Studies meets in rm. 120 from 5·6 p.m. From 6-7 p.m. the Hes· burgh Program Concentration will be discussed in rm. 115, and the STU concentration is in rm. 120 from 6-7 
p.m. Sociology is in rm. 115 from 7·8 p.m., and Classks will be in rm. 120 from 7-8 p.m. 
Job Search Orientation for Juniors 6:30-7:30pm in Room 124 Hayes-Healy. This presentation is designed to give juniors an overview of the types ol' activities involved in preparing for the job search in their senior year as well as how the Career and Placement Services office can assist in this process. Presented by Kitty Arnold, Career and Placement Services Director. 
"Misrepresentation of Arabs in the media;'' a 
panel discussion will be held Thursday at 7 pm in the Foster Room in LaFortune. Participants include Father Patrick Gaffney, Professor Alan Dowty, and Mansour 'Bid. 
•MENU Notre Dame  
NORTH  SOUTH  
Broiled Haddock Spinach Tortelllni Chocolate Chip Cookies  Chicken Strips Rice Valencienne Italian Cream Cake  
Saint Mary's College  
Beef Short Ribs Madera Country Fried Steak Tofu and Broccoli Stir Fry  

Recycle The Observer 
APRil 1 8:00PM STEPAN CENTER GOD STREET WINE 
' . 
• ,_·_ ... lt.
1._ !!'"' 

.. 
• 
, I 
42 Become orderly 43 "Cheerio!" 44 Musical mood? 48 Scottish title 50 Words 52 Breathers 55 Glacial ridges 
. 

56 Luang Prabang's land 59 Matter of retribution at Slipper, for short 12 Lupino of "High Sierra" 

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, March 30, 1995 
• BASEBAll 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhall 
The Irish were unable to hold onto an early lead, provided by a Craig DeSensi homerun, in their home opener. 
... 
Thursday, March 30 ND Baseball vs. Cincinnati, 4 p.m. Eck Stadium ND Softball vs. Bowling Green 3 p.m. at Ivy Field ND Women's Tennis vs. Illinois, 3p.m. 

Irish lose opener 5-4 
coach Paul Mainieri. "We just didn't rise 
fter DeSensi homer 
to the occasion." 
Starter Darin Schmalz was dominating
ish bats fall silent enough in the first six innings that it 
seemed the one run might stand up. The
Bowling Green sophomore right-hander gave up five hits 
and struck out five in the first six innings. 
But Schmalz (3-3) ran into trouble in 
Writer 

the seventh. After giving up a one-out walk to Jerome Kynard, a Mike Amrhein It was opening afternoon, and the lights error allowed Donny Schone to reachat the Eck Baseball Stadium were just 
first.
beginning to flicker when suddenly, the Jason Calvin loaded the bases with astadium and much of the Notre Dame single, and Kynard scored on another sin­athletic complex went dark. 
gle by Mark Tornallo. Shortstop Brian The power outage that kept the Eck in Cannon drilled a three-run double and the dark seemed to drain the life out of later scored on a Tony Gill sacrifice.
the Irish baseball team as they fell to "Darin was really in control and then Bowling Green 5-4. 
all of sudden we were down," MainieriThe afternoon began with a bang, as said. "Its hard to rely on a pitcher to senior Craig DeSensi blasted a homer to throw a shut out to win a game, though. 
left on the very first pitch. After that, We had a chance to get out the inning, Irish bats fell silent with just four hits the but we made an error and they took rest of the way. 
.. • advantage of it." 
l~s awfully .ha~d to wm g~~es. when you re not swmgmg the bat, sa1d head see BASEBALL/ page 16 

Spring has sprung for Irish 
Holtz anxious to start spring practices, Blunt to transfer 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assistant Sports Editor 

Most cities welcome the corning spring with sunshine, warm weather and blossoming flowers while Notre Dame, stuck in the middle of spring­less South Bend, must await another divine act of mother nature to signal the beginning of spring. Spring football practice. 
When Irish head coach Lou Holtz took to the podium Wednesday for the annual spring foot­ball press conference, the city rejoiced as spring had sprung. 
Though many have anxiously awaited the beginning of spring, none have been more anx­ious than Holtz and hi& players. 
"First of all, I am anxious to start spring prac­tice," Holtz said. "We had an outstanding winter program as far as participation. Getting things done was very, very positive. The attitude of the football team is probably as good as I had seen at this stage." 
Irish senior-to-be split end Derrick Mayes agreed with Holtz's opinion of the teams atti­tude. 
"We're excited to get the pads on," he said. "There is a great attitude, and we're trying to get off on the right foot. There are so many dif­ferences between this year and years past. Everyone is ready to work and put in the effort. I've never seen that before." 
Aside from stating the attitude of the team, Holtz addressed some of the team's main con­cerns entering the spring season. 
He stated that a main priority was to enter the fall season with a first team on offense and de­fense, and that they would worry about the sec­ond teams in the fall. 
"I want to come out of spring practice with a first team," he explained. "I don't care about second team, but we are going to come out with 

The Observer/Jake Peters 

Irish head coach Lou Holtz believes the offensive line will be improved this season. 
a first team. We had not been able to do that 
last year and I think that is an absolute necessi­
ty." 

In picking the first team, the Irish coaches, 
and specifically new defensive backs coach Tom 
McMahon, will have to solve a defensive back­
field riddled with question marks. 
''I've said it so many times," Holtz said, "you 
can't be a good football team if you aren't out­
standing in the secondary." 
To improve the defensive backs and to fill 
some other holes, some players switched posi­
tions. Renaldo Wynn will go to defensive tackle, 
Ty Goode will move from wide receiver to defen­
sive corner. Jeff Kilburg will move to offensive 
tackle. former tight end Luke Petitgout will be 
Friday, March 31 Saturday, April 1 No sports today. ND Baseball vs. Buder (2), Noon ND Track vs. W. Michigan (men) Go our and play with some friends, or SMC Tennis vs. Valparaiso stay in and play with yourself. ND Lacrosse vs. Buder, 2 p.m. SMC Track at Manchester ND Softball at Wright State 

see FOOTBALL/ page 14 
Sunday, April 2 
ND Baseball vs. Buder (2), Noon ND Softball at Buder ND Men's Tennis vs. Northwestern I p.m. 





