
Monday, January 30, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 75 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT lv1ARY'S 
$50,000 donated to Habitat construction 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
News Writer 
An anonymous donation of $50,000, made by a 1979 Notre Dame alumnus, will fund the construction of housing for a low-income family in the Watts community of Los Angeles later this summer. 
The donalion, announced late last week at the Notre Dame Alumni Association winter board meeting, was specifically designated by the donor to be used in Habitat for Humanity's 1995 .Jimmy Carter Project, which is to take place June 18­24. 
The annual project involves over 2,000 Habitat for llumanity volunteers, including Notre Dame students and alumni. who work alongside with ex-President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Hosalynn, in the construction of housing. 
The Carters have been active in Habitat for Humanity for several years and received the 1992 Notre Dame Award in part for this work. 
Habitat for Humanity is a non-profit organization which organizes volunteer labor as well as money and materials donations with the goal of pro­viding safe housing for low­income families. The families are given non-interest mort­gages to be repaid over periods of time ranging from seven to 20 years. 

The money from these mort­gages is then placed in a "Fund for Humanity" which funds the construction of other houses. 
Approximately 31 homes are to be built in this year's five­day "blitz-building" with each house costing $50,000. The cost includes the construction materials and skilled labor, but the assistance of volunteers is necessary to complete the homes. 
This project is an opportunity for both the Notre Dame stu­dents and the 206 alumni clubs to further the mission of the university, according to Edward Trifone, director of alumni community service. 
"It allows Notre Dame stu­dents to become goodwill ambassadors because they bridge the gap between older alumni, who have not been exposed to the same level of community service as today's students, and less advantaged people," Trifone said. 


Play it again, Band 

Band de Soleil, which opened for Indigo Girls here last fall, performed before an enthusiastic audience at The Loft in LaFortune's Ballroom on Friday night. 

Sociologist to examine masculinity 
ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
Sociologist and author Michael Kimmel will present a lecture today entitled "Clarence, William, Iron Mike, Magic and Us: Male-Female Relationships in the 1990s." The lecture will examine mas­culinity and sexual relations in modern times. 
Kimmel's lecture, to be pre­sented at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library, is the first in a series entitled "Masculinity in the 1990s: The Social Construction of Being Male." 
Kimmel, a sociology profes­sor at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, is also a spokesperson for the National Organization of Men Against Sexism (NOMAS). His writings and lectures examine men's lives from a pro-feminist perspective. 
Kimmel explores the various forms that masculinity can take in the modern world. 
see KIMMEL I page 4 


Malloy, Latin American leaders meet 
Special to the Observer 
Father Edward Malloy, pres­ident of the University of Notre Dame, last week returned from a 16-day, four-nation trip through Latin America that in­cluded private interviews with the presidents of Panama and Brazil and meetings there and in Chile and Mexico with 
numerous prominent churchmen, educators and business leaders. 
Malloy was accompanied on the trip by 

Father MalloyHichard Warner, counselor to the president and director of campus ministry at Notre Dame, and William Sex­ton, vice president for University relations. 
In Panama, Malloy spent some five hours in conversation with President Ernesto Perez Balladares, who earned his bachelor's degree in finance and master's degree in eco­nomics from Notre Dame in 196 7 and '69, respectively. 
Balladares said his concerns with social justice and redistribution of wealth in Panama are a direct result of his education in values at Notre Dame and called his time at the University the most important six years of his life. 
Mark G. McGrath, a Notre Dame alumnus and life trustee who was Archbishop of Panama from 1969-94, also took part in the discussion. 
Malloy was the recipient of two very different honors while in Panama. First, the Uni­versidad Santa Maria La Antigua presented its most prestigious institutional award to him, then a delegation of Cubans who have fled their country and now are housed in a camp of Panama presented him with letters attesting to their reasons for seeking politi­cal asylum in the U.S. and declaring their refusal to be re­turned to Cuba. 

Malloy delivered the letters to an activist group working in the Cubans' behalf. 
In Brazil, Malloy renewed ac­quaintance with President Fer­nando Enrique Cardoso, a scholar-politician who is a for­mer visiting scholar in Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute for In­ternational Studies and who re­ceived an honorary degree from the University in 1991. 
Cardoso told Malloy he looks to the Kellogg Institute for help in analyzing the economic and social problems facing Brazil. 
Malloy's Brazilian itinerary also included a meeting with 
U.S. Ambassador Melvin Levitsky and a tour of the· Notre Dame High School complex in Campinas. The school is run by the Holy Cross Brothers and is one of many examples of Holy Cross ministry in South America. 
Malloy's stay in Chile took him to more Holy Cross es­tablishments, including St. George's and Andacollo Colleges, as well as a seminary and an orphanage ad­ministered by the congregation. 
These visits also reunited 
Malloy with several recent 
Notre Dame graduates now 
serving as Holy Cross 
Associates working among the 
poor in Chile. 
Also in Chile, Malloy met with former President Patricio Aylwin, who was a speaker and honorary degree recipient at the University's 1992 Commencement exercises, and with newly-appointed U.S. Ambassador Gabriel Guerra. 

The final stop on the tour was Mexico, where Malloy's itiner­ary included meetings with Mexican senate members and other political figures, and the editorial board of the national news publication Reforma. 
High on the list of everyone's concerns were the precarious state of the Mexican economy in the wake of the devaluation of the peso and the social unrest stemming from the country's widespread poverty and political corruption. The uprising in Chiapas was an immediate illustration of these problems. 
Also while in Mexico, Malloy met with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students partici­pating in the University's inter­national studies program there. 
Malloy is a frequent world traveler in pursuit of his goal of expanding the international outreach of Notre Dame. 
In addition to this most recent trip, his itinerary in the past year has included the Philippines, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea, Portugal, Israel and Jamaica. 
As with his Latin American visits, the primary focus of Malloy's world travel is the establishment of closer links between the University and international leaders in higher education, the Catholic Church, government and business. 
In a significant number of in­stances these leaders have per­sonal links to Notre Dame as alumni, parents of Notre Dame students or through scholarly, religious or business channels. 


Parties dispute extent of welfare safety net 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The federal government must continue to provide a safety net for poor children and teen-age mothers as it cedes welfare re­sponsibilities to the states, Health and Human Services Secretary Donna Shalala said Sunday. 
But Sen. Phil Gramm of Texas, a leading Republican presidential aspirant, said the time has come for drastic action. 
"You can't change this mam­moth system without hurting some people," he said. 
The issue of who will be guaranteed protection under a revamped welfare system is at the top of the list of differences as the administration and Republicans stake out their positions on welfare reform. 
Republicans emerging from a 5 1/2-hour "work session" on welfare reform with President Clinton on Saturday stressed that House GOP legislation that imposes tough restrictions on benefits is the only proposal on the table now. 
But Shalala, appearing on CBS' "Face the Nation," noted that Clinton has said gov­ernment should not be creating more poor American children. 
"That's a national issue," she said. "It's a debate about val­ues, about how we take care of our children." 
Clinton has proposed cutting off welfare benefits to re­cipients after two years and giving states more flexibility in setting up welfare programs. The House Republican plan goes much further, giving states block grants and allow­ing them to determine how to allot the funds; denying cash welfare to unmarried mothers under 18; and denying aid to legal immigrants who have not become citizens. 
Shalala said the president had "very serious questions about whether teen-agers who have babies should be cut off from any cash assistance." 
She also took exception to the GOP proposal to cut off aid to unwed mothers until the fa­thers of their children are identified. Those women who play by the rules and cooperate should get transitional help, she said. 
But the secretary did not totally reject the Republican plan on legal aliens. The administration wants the spon­sors of immigrants to bear financial responsibility, she said. If that doesn't work, "we'll have to see." 
Rep. Clay Shaw, R-Fla., chair­man of the House Ways and Means subcommittee oversee­ing welfare reform, insisted that the concept of entitlements -guarantees that poor people 
will receive benefits  - must  
change.  
"Entitlements  are  gov­ 

ernment on auto-pilot," Shaw said on CBS. "With the bal­anced budget amendment com­ing up, I think we're going to have to look at all entitle­ments." 
Shaw said the Republicans were working on some type of emergency fund that would come to the aid of states during economic downturns. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, January 30, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Is journalism beyond help? 

Not a day passes now without the press and Edward Imbus other media receiving a Copy Editor barrage of criticism. And most of it is entirely proper. While television news, with its sens­es-dulling, 5-to-30-second soundbytes, is mostly to blame, the press also has had trou­ble finding a consistent moral standard of ethics to follow. 
The time has come for journalism to develop its adolescent professionalism. It would be more than proper for Notre Dame, as the pre­eminent Catholic university in America and a center of ethical thought, to create and adopt a concentration in journalism. Doing so would not only be beneficial to the student editors and the student body who receives their work, but also the University and its faith as well. 
A course in journalistic ethics, for example, would be extremely useful for the staff of campus publications who receive sensitive information, usually by complete serendipity. Especially for reporters who instinctually want to be published, the enormity of de­ciding whether or not to do so is difficult. Discussing and debating the ethics of such questions in an academic setting before an actual situation arises -similar to medical ethics courses -would be helpful indeed. 
By educating the corps of aspiring journal­ists on campus, the University could then be more frank and less hostile with senior staff writers and senior editors about events on campus. Information indeed can be given "off the record" or as not-for-publication. Though Connie Chung shamefully included material clearly off the record ("just between you and me"), most journalists, professional or other­wise, can understand the difference. Frankness, ground rules, and firm ethics ul­timately make for trust, which at present is non-existent between the University and its student reporters. With that trust, perhaps student publications would not need to rely on the South Bend Tribune or Chicago Tribune for big stories about its own home. 
Notre Dame is in the perfect position to lead the development of professional stan-dards for the American press, as it does for so many other trades, like politics and medicine. It would be similar to the way the American Catholic bishops developed a treatise on the ethics of nuclear weapons, a document highly regarded by leaders and scholars worldwide, and thus justify such study. Administratively, the Hesburgh Program of Public Service pro­vides a frame-work for a journalism concen­tration. 
The opportunity for Notre Dame to address ethics in a popular culture realm is not one to ignore. Being the Catholic university it is, Notre Dame has an ethical, if not spiritual, obligation to fill this void with responsible journalistic integrity. 
The time has come for the Irish to once 
again make a stand and use its talents and 
reputation for the better of everyone by 
enhancing a needed profession whose in­
fluence, without guidance, will dull our soci­
ety's conscience to nothing and only further 
drag us down to the deepest levels of human 
apathy. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Brad Prendergast Suzy Fry Melanie Laflin Lab Tech 
Sports Jenn Rezeli Joe Villinski Accent Matt Casey Jenny Shank Production Graphics Susan Marx Robert Bollman 
Tara Grieshop 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep[ during exam and vacation periods. The Obsc.Vc:r is a member of <he Associa«d Press. All reproducdon righlS are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 

Peru and Ecuador fight over border dispute 
QUITO,  Ecuador  The  joint  command  said  two  
Peruvian  forces  renewed  attacks  Peruvians were wounded in one of  
Saturday against Ecuadorean border  Saturday's four clashes, and mentioned  
outposts, and at least 23 troops on both  an unspecified number of other wound- 
sides have been killed in three days of  ed in  the  other three.  Peru  and  
clashes, the military said.  Ecuador's  Ecuador fought a war in 1941 over their  
Armed Forces Joint Command also said  1,000-mile border, and animosity is still  
Peruvian  warplanes  entered  strong. In dispute is a 50-mile length of  
Ecuadorean air space in the south but  jungle-covered  mountains,  the  
were forced back by Ecuadorean air  Cordillera del Condor, where bloody  
force planes. In Lima, Peru, spokesmen  clashes took place in 1981.  Ecuador  
at the presidential palace and the for- contends it lost almost half of its territo­ 
eign ministry had no information on  ry with the signing of the 1942 Protocol  
reports of new fighting.  of Rio de Janeiro after the 1941 war.  
But Peruvian troops in northern Peru  Ecuador later declared void the territor­ 
were placed on alert, tanks were moved  . iallimits set by the protocol.  
toward the border and Peru's president,  Many Peruvians view the conflict as  
Alberto Fujimori, flew over troop posi­ an annual attempt by Ecuador to stress  
tions.  its claim to the disputed area. Jan. 29 is  
Peruvian television broadcast scenes  the anniversary of the signing of the Rio  
late Friday of troops in trucks headed  Protocol.  Although local media in Quito  
toward the border from the northern  asked citizens to show support by flying  
city of Tumbes.  In Shell-Mera, about  the Ecuadorean flag from windows and  
120 miles north of the disputed area and 95 miles south of Quito, Col. Pablo  1-.:!.::=::Jt------'----"--'--------:A;u;P  balconies, few were visible. Although Fujimori faces a presidential  

Viteri said 20 Peruvian soldiers and three Ecuadoreans election in early April, Peruvian opposition candidates have been killed in clashes, which first flared on have not overly politicized the issue, though some called Thursday. for a "strong response" by the government. 
Tension increases in Chiapas 

CHICOMUSELO, Mexico 
Police backed by army troops patrolled large sections of Chiapas state Sunday to keep armed ranchers from attacking Indian peasants who seized their lands. Tension heightened during the weekend when the ranchers and other small landholders threatened to act after accusing the state government of doing nothing to restore their prop­


erties. Indians claiming what they say are ancestral lands have seized more than 2,150 properties since the Zapatista National Liberation Army launched a rebellion on Jan. 1, 1994. The landless Indian squatters sympa­thize with the Zapatistas, who are also made up mostly of Maya-descended indigenous groups. "We are waiting for an attack. The ranchers are armed and the peasants who have invaded their land are also armed with high-caliber weapons," said German Perez Ramirez, a spokesman for the State Public Safety office in Frontera Comalapa, 10 miles southeast. Squatters at nearby La Aurora have erected barricades in anticipation of a rancher attack. 

Bosnian conflict continues 

SARAJEVO, Bosnia-Herzegovina 
The Bosnian government's outgunned army lost ground to anti-government forces Sunday in a fierce assault around an embattled northwestern town, U.N. officials said. In some of the worst fighting since a month-old truce between the Muslim-led government and Bosnian Serbs silenced most guns, U.N. spokesman Maj. Koos Sol reported 701 artillery and mortar blasts around the town of Velika Kladusa. Sol said Croatian Serbs and rebel Muslims pushed the government's Fifth Corps up to three miles farther southeast from Velika Kladusa. Croatian Serbs and Muslims loyal to Fikret Abdic, whose native stronghold is Velika Kladusa, are allied with the Bosnian Serbs but did not sign the truce. A radio station controlled by Abdic said his forces were taking ground from Bosnian government troops and seizing strategic points. Farther south, U.N. spokesman Lt. Col. Gary Coward said government forces apparently pushed Croatian Serb fighters back across the border into Croatia. 

French rivers top record levels 
PARIS 
Rivers in western Europe rose to near or above record levels Sunday, driving hundreds more people from their homes and shutting down factories. At least six people have been reported missing and two dead in a third con­secutive winter of flooding in France. At least four Germans and two Belgians have died. Heavy flooding also has hit the Netherlands. A new storm, another of a chain that has rolled in from the Atlantic in recent days, brought light showers Sunday and many rivers were reported leveling off. But rougher weather was predicted for Wednesday. The rising waters have flooded numer­ous cities -notably the Old City district in Cologne, Germany -and thousands of people have been evacuat­ed from their homes. The damage is in the millions of dollars. French Premier Edouard Balladur scheduled an emergency Cabinet meeting Monday morning. In north­eastern France, the Meuse River topped record levels Sunday, triggering the evacuation of 600 more people in and around Charleville-Mezieres, near the Belgian bor­der, officials said. A national highway near the Belgian border was cut off in three places. 

Vietnamese-Americans return home 
HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam 
Tran and his wife flew in from Houston. Tony came back from Denver, wondering if his parents could find him a bride. Hue Laughter and her six daughters came in from California to a reunion so big they had to comman­deer a bus to leave the airport. The international airport in Ho Chi Minh City, formerly Saigon, has been jammed for days with tens of thousands of Vietnamese-Americans returning to celebrate Tuesday's Lunar New Year, called Tet. They are the human expression of warming rela­tions between the United States and Vietnam 20 years after communist North Vietnam toppled the U.S.-backed South Vietnamese government and ended the Vietnam war. On Saturday, the United States and Vietnam opened liaison offices in each other's capitals, a major step towards establishing full diplomatic relations. An esti­mated 2 million Vietnamese live abroad, more than half of them in the United States. In recent years, as the Vietnamese government relaxed its repression, growing numbers have come to visit and, sometimes, invest. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl. WEATHER 
Monday, Jan. 30 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


The Accu-Weather<P> forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 30. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 
1Indianapoli3 34° I 
Ill. 
• 
Pressure 


0~~{)~8
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V. Auocudeci PIBSS 
Atlanta 47 29 Dallas 59 46 New Orleans 56 34 Baltimore 41 32 Denver 55 21 New York 39 35 Boston 34 27 Los Angeles 62 54 Philadelphia 40 34

~,~,~~~~~~a 

Chicago 25 6 Miami 67 49 Phoenix 70 50
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Columbus 25 3 Minneapolis 25 9 St. Louis 35 24 
Via Associated Press G"'f'//icsNBI 01995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Quake strikes Seattle 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

The strongest earthquake to hit Puget Sound in 30 years caused no serious damage or injuries but jolted memories that the Pacific Northwest is earthquake country. 
Saturday night's 5.0 magni­tude quake was felt as far north as Canada and as far south as Salem, Ore. It was centered 10 miles south of Seattle. 
The quake, which struck at 
7:11 p.m., shattered some store windows, knocked gro­ceries o!T shelves and cracked the walls of two aging brick fire stations in Tacoma. 
But its main victims were nerves. 
"It started shaking the whole trailer," said Scott Shabaz, who lives about 2 112 miles south of the epicenter. "I have a rude friend that comes by once in a while and likes to do that with his truck." 
Jennifer Fitzgerald, a super­market worker in suburban Is­saquah, said, "People were shaken up a lot. A lot of people haven't Jived here long enough to experience any of the earth­quakes," she said. 
The temblor was the strongest to hit the Seattle area since a 6.5 earthquake 
Tobacco lawsuit nears trial following hearing 
By LISA SHAPIRO 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

A liability lawsuit against to­bacco companies over the can­cer death of a smoker will be the first to_go to trial since Congress grilled tobacco execu­ti'tles last spring on the dangers of cigarettes. 
Michael Holland, an attorney for the man's family, said his case will include some informa­tion uncovered during the hear­ings to try to prove that ciga­rette makers had the ability to make cigarettes Jess addictive. 
On his witness list is Dr. Victor DeNoble, a former re­searcher for Philip Morris Inc. DeNoble testified at the congressional hearings in April that a study he wrote contain­ing strong evidence nicotine was addictive was suppressed by his employer in 1983. 
The surgeon general didn't determine nicotine was addic­tive until 1988. 
Historically, juries have sided with tobacco companies, agree­ing the companies were not re­sponsible for illness because smokers made conscious deci­sions to smoke despite knowing the risks. 
But anti-smoking advocates said public opinion has changed since the hearings and believe juries may now be more likely to find tobacco companies somewhat responsible for smoking-related illnesses. 
cigarettes," said Richard Day­nard, a law professor at North­eastern University in Boston and chairman of the Tobacco Products Liability Project. 
"I think that's going to make a big difference in jury atti­tudes." 
Richard Rogers, who was an Indianapolis attorney, began taking his father's cigarettes and butts left in ashtrays when he was 5 or 6 years old. By the sixth grade, he was smoking close to a pack ·a day. When he hit his mid-20s, he was up to three packs a day. 
After hypnosis and drug ther­apy, Rogers finally quit on June 24, 1986. Two months later, he was diagnosed with lung can­cer. 
With his wife, Yvonne Rogers, he filed a lawsuit in March 1987 against cigarette manu­facturers and retailers, claim­ing they caused his illness. 
Seven months later, the 52­year-old father of three died. His wife amended the lawsuit to include charges of wrongful death and asked for an unspecified amount in compen­satory and punitive damages. 
Nearly eight years after the lawsuit was filed, jury selection is to begin Tuesday in Marion County Superior Court. 
The lawsuit accuses R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Philip Morris, The American Tobacco Co. and Liggett Group Inc. of failing to warn Rogers of the addictive and harmful proper­
Scully speaks at WPO 
SJlCclal to the Observer 
;?;Father Timothy Sc.ully, vice­J>t~~t~:Ie~t and associate :,.P~~yp!'lt pf th!'l Univ(:lrsity of ..NP~f,~, Dame; delivered aseries of lectures on the Catholic Chut"ch in Latin 
America during the annu&l meeting of the World President's Organization (WPO) in Santiago, Chile Jf!:iltiary 25-28. 
Corn.prised of more than 
.170() rnetnhers from 40 coun~ j{t~~~~.the. WPO includes .a.ctive ,tl.#~ retired corporate chief ··~:g;e~Q:tive officers. ambas­·.· sadors. diplomats, and gov­
ermqeht officials. 
Its annual ''university" meeting offers an education prQgram that includes semi­nar$ .and .lectures by pollti­
...,..... ., -.". ·.:·. . ,,..: ::: .,., .. :·• . <~ . . ·:. .. :: .·c.·j. . ..·=···· .•.·· 
cians, business people, sci­entists, artists, and acade­mics. 
Scully, who lived in Chile from 1979 to 1983, served as vice rector of St. George's University in Santiago and as pastor of Christ Our Redeemer parish in a poor neighborhood of that city. 
An associate professor of government and international studies and a senior fellow in the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, he has written numerous books and articles on Latin American politics. 
His most recent book, "Building Democratic Institutions: Party Systems in Latin America," will be pub­lished by Stanford University .Press later this month. 

struck April 29, 1965, injuring 
"People now believe in a way ties in cigarettes before 1969, 
Turning away 
at least 31 people.ln 1949, a 
they just never focused on the year the federal law requir­
This Band de Soleil member looks away from the audience while
7.1 quake near Olympia killed 
before that these guys basically ing labels on cigarette packages 
eight people. 
performing at LaFortune Ballroom on Friday night. 
lie through their teeth to sell was strengthened. 



---~-----~------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, January 30, 1995 
Opening statements begin in bombing trial 
By LARRY NEUMEISTER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK The largest terrorism trial in 
U.S. history starts in earnest this week with opening state­ments and a warning from the judge that religion is not on trial. 
Prosecutors will try to show that Sheik Omar Abdel­Rahman and 1l other Muslims planned a "war of urban terrorism" in America that could have killed thousands of people. 
Prosecutors will argue they plotted to blow up the World Trade Center, the United Na­tions, the FBI's New York head­quarters, two tunnels and a bridge, and to kill Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak and other politicians and judges: 
After 13 lawyers deliver their opening statements beginning Monday, U.S. District Judge Michael Mukasey will instruct the jury on seditious conspira­cy, the rarely used Civil War­era charge used in the case. The trial's magnitude can be measured both by the number of defendants and the scope of what they allegedly plotted as well as the damage already wrought. 
Mukasey told lawyers last week he would tell the jury the defendants are not accused of trying to overthrow the U.S. government, only of trying to wage a war against it. He also will advise them that if some­one breaks laws, "the fact that it is undertaken in the name of religion is no defense whatso­ever." 
"There is no religion on trial here," the judge said in a preliminary draft of his jury in­structions. 
Lawyers for Abdel-Rahman, the 56-year-old blind cleric al­leged to have headed the con­spiracy, charge that he's being prosecuted for his beliefs. If convicted, he could face life in prison. 
The alleged plot's motive, prosecutors say, was to punish the United States for support­ing Israel and Egypt and to weaken the nation's influence, easing the spread of the particular brand of strict Islam that Abdel-Rahman espouses. 
The trial is the second chap­ter in the prosecution of a group allegedly responsible for the 1990 assassination of Rabbi Meir Kahane, founder of the militant Jewish Defense League, and the Feb. 26, 1993, World Trade Center bombing, in which six people were killed and hundreds injured. 
Three followers of the teach­ings of Abdel-Rahman and a fourth man were convicted last year in the Trade Center bomb­ing and were sentenced to life in prison without parole. 
The judge in that first trial said the bomb was meant to topple the 110-story towers, a symbol of America's economic might, and kill tens of thou­sands of people. 
One defendant in this trial, El Sayyid Nosair, was acquitted in the 1990 assassination of Ka­hane. 



Female pilot ready to soar 
By MARCIA DUNN 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The lesson came early in as­tronaut Eileen Collins' flying career: One slip and women who follow will suffer. 
She learned that 17 years ago when a woman in her Air Force pilot-training class failed a check ride, a flight to check pilot proficiency. Because it was the first group of women at the base, everyone knew. Ev­eryone talked. A woman failed a check ride! 
"All of a sudden, I realized there is a lot of pressure on me. I can't afford to fail because I will be hurting chances for young women who want to come here some day," Collins says. 
Collins never failed in the sky; · she became the Air Force's sec­ond female test pilot. And this Thursday, she is scheduled to become the first woman to pilot a U.S. spaceship. 
The 38-year-old Air Force lieutenant colonel will be sec­ond in command ·or space shut­tle Discovery and its crew of six. If all goes well, she'll move over to the left seat -that of space shuttle commander -by the end of the decade, breaking the final sex barrier. 
Collins feels less stress going into her first space flight than she did during her test pilot days when female military avia­tors were rare. After all, Ameri­can women have been flying in space since 1983 as working passengers. 
The first American woman in space, Sally Ride, used the shuttle robot arm to release and retrieve satellites. The first American woman to perform a spacewalk, Kathryn Sullivan, practiced techniques for refuel­ing satellites; the country's sec­ond female spacewalker, Kathryn Thornton, helped fix the Hubble Space Telescope. 
Collins will be a pioneering pilot on a pioneering flight -NASA's first trip to Russia's space station. 
She will take with her re­minders of the women who flew ahead: 
A scarf that belonged to Amelia Earhart ... a pilot's li­cense that belongs to 1929 fe­male flight endurance champ Bobbi Trout and was signed by Orville Wright ... items belong­ing to Women Airforce Servi'te Pilots who ferried military air­craft in the United States dur­ing World War II and women who applied to NASA's Mercury program but were turned down because of their sex. 
"This mission I believe -I know -has some significance to many people, women in particular," Collins says. 
Collins knows the world will be watching her during the eight-day flight. She also knows: One slip and women who follow will suffer. 
"In some ways, I appreciate the stress," she says. "I want to do better and I work harder." 
As Collins sees it, the pres­sure of being the first female space shuttle pilot comes from outside NASA. 
The curiosity is evident with all the letters and interview requests she receives. 
Inside the space agency, Collins insists she's treated the same as the 33 other shuttle pi­lots, all men. 
NASA flight director Phil Engelauf says it's "completely invisible" to him that Collins is a woman because she performs her job as well as any pilot. In fact, he says, all of the female astronauts -18 of NASA's 95 astronauts are women -carry the same workload as their male counterparts. 
Collins will monitor Dis­
covery's radar and other 
navigation systems and handle 
the crew checklist while com­
mander James Wetherbee flies 
the shuttle to within 35 feet of 
the orbiting Mir station, a dress 
rehearsal for the first shuttle­
Mir docking in June. She'll get 
a chance to fly Discovery at 
other times. 
Everything Wetherbee can do 
Collins can do. Wetherbee 
made sure of that. 
"We trained to be as one," 
says Wetherbee, a Navy com­
mander who will be making his 
third space flight. "If anything 
happens to me, then she'll com­
plete the mission." 

KiD101el 
continued from page 1 
"Masculinity is not biological­ly determined," said Jane Aldous, professor of sociology, whose department is co-spon­soring the lecture. "It varies over the globe and in the United States." 
Kimmel has written several books on the concept of the masculine in America, includ­ing "Manhood: The American Quest," a history of the subject. An earlier book, "Against the Tide: Profeminist Men in Amer­ica, 1776-1990, a Documentary History," presents evidence of two centuries of American males who have supported women's struggle for equality. 
Kimmel's works have been featured in a great deal of print and broadcast media, and Kim­mel himself has been a guest on several talk shows. He also runs a number of workshops for universities and corpora­tions on such topics as date rape, sexual harassment, and the changing relationships between men and women. 
The lecture series is spon­sored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series; the American studies, anthropology, govern­ment and sociology depart­ments; the gender studies pro­gram; Student Activities; and the Kroc Institute for Interna­tional Peace Studies. 




Abbott Laboratories 
is now accepting resumes for its Financial Professional Development Program 
Interested senior accounting or finance majors should bring resumes to the Career and Placement Office January 30, 31, and February 1 
a 


Quality Health Care Worldwide 
Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 5 

Tax-slashing fever hits D.C. 
By DAVE SKIDMORE allows most Americans to pay Some contract provisions are Associated Press at a 10 percent or 11 percent well known, such as a $500-a~ rate,· but imposes higher rates child credit, expanded WASHINGTON on the richest 20 percent. Individual Retirement Accounts Tax-slashing fever has Domenici's USA (Unlimited and a 50 percent reduction in gripped the nation's capital. Savings Allowance) Tax, capital gains taxes on the profit 
Republicans and Democrats devised with Sen. Sam Nunn, D­from selling securities, real es­are falling over each other to Ga., also is somewhat simpler tate and other assets. oJTer voters appealing packages than the current system. It's Others are not so well known, with a list of beneficiaries rang­main goal is to spur the econo­such as allowing losses on ing from people with home of­my by allowing taxpayers to home sales to be deducted and fices to families with children in deduct every dollar they save or expanding the deductibility of college. invest. home offices. 
House Republicans have more For the same reason, others Like the Republicans, Clinton than a dozen tax breaks in their advocate replacing the income wants to oJTer a $500 tax credit "Contract With America." tax with a value added tax. It's for children and extend el­President Clinton has countered a form of national sales tax now igibility for IRAs. with his Middle-Class Bill of used by most of the United He also would allow a Hights. House Minority Leader States' major trading partners. $10,000-a-year deduction for Dick Gephardt, 0-Mo., and Sen. Typically, it's levied at each tuition and training expenses. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, also have stage of production and mar­Gephardt's "working people's tax-reduction proposals. keting. tax break" -for two years 
But even some advocates of With such comprehensive tax only -would go to taxpayers the competing plans acknowl­reforms on the table, why both­regardless of whether they had edge what's really needed is er with short-term fixes? children: up to $750 to married not a hodgepodge of new cred­The .answer from "real couples and up to $450 to sin­its and exemptions but a Americans" who have been gle people. sweeping overhaul of the con­testifying before the House Gramm would more than voluted tax code. Ways and Means Committee is double the exemption for chil­
"We set up a tax break and -quite simply-they need the dren, from $2,450 to $5,000. people all run to that. And then relief. All the plans sound good, but we worry somebody's going to Perry Moy, owner of The liberal policy analysts question abuse it. And then we make it Plum Garden, a Chinese restau­whether they are worth the more complicated," Gephardt rant in McHenry, Ill., hopes in­enormous cost. said. "It's insane." creasing the estate-tax exemp­"Frankly speaking, given a 
So, even before Congress tion would make it easier for $250 billion federal budget votes on this year's tax cuts, him to leave his business to his deficit, if there is one thing Gephardt and other senior law­three sons. Americans don't deserve, it's a makers are gearing up for Dave Camp of Chesaning, tax cut," said Barry P. what's likely to be a three-year Mich., says the GOP depre­Bosworth of the Brookings debate over how to radically ciation proposal would help Institution. transform the way Americans him replace aging machinery The Treasury Department es­are taxed. on his family's 500-acre corn, timates the GOP contract's cost 
House Majority Leader Dick wheat and soybean farm. at $205 billion over five years. Armey, H-Texas; Senate Budget Robyn Klapperich, a school Clinton's proposal costs $60 bil­Committee Chairman Pete secretary in San Anselmo, lion over the same period. Domenici, R-N.M., and Calif., favors tax incentives for Gephardt estimates the two­Gephardt each have long-term long-term care insurance of the year cost of his credit at $66 reform plans. type that allowed her to pay for billion. 
Armey proposes a flat tax of a nursing home for her mother Gramm says the five-year 17 percent, exempting a certain without sacrificing her chil­cost of his proposal is $124 bil­amount of wage and salary in­dren's college education. lion. come and all unearned income Their stories demonstrate the Bosworth and others com­such as interest, dividends and political appeal of the agenda plain that the GOP contract is capital gains. that propelled Republicans to back-loaded. The IRA and 
Gephardt's "fair and simple" their first House majority in 40 depreciation proposals, for tax, which he is still polishing, years. instance, will cost a lot more a resembles Armey's. However, it Each tax cut has a constituen­decade from now than in the includes unearned income. It cy of avid boosters. first few years. 
AS A NOTRE DAME 
GRADUATE JOINING 
COOPERS & LYBRAND 
YOU'LL RUB ELBOWS WITH 
VICE PRESIDENTS, 
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENTS, 
EXECUTIVE PRESIDENTS, 
EVEN PARTNERS. 
HOPE YOUR ARMS ARE UP TO THE TASK. 
This is the kind of exposure you can expect as ~ You'll find the right fit at Coopers &Lybrand. 
an associate at Coopers & Lybrand. Here manage-W You'll be part of an organization that works with 
ment works as a team, exchanging ideas as well as W over 400 companies in the Fortune 1000 every 
expertise. Yet individual achievement is not only day. Not to mention more top international com­
encouraged but rewarded. So panies than any other Big SixCoopers Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. your career can move as far Firm. You can roll up your
1 &Lybrand a protess1onat serv1ces t1nn and as fast as you want it to. sleeves now. 
Moroccan example may cause cuts in aid 
fense experts, Sen. Sam Nunn,
Republicans 
D-Ga., said Sunday that U.N. operations need to be carefullycite deceit as screened, but cutting peacekeeping funds could mean "the United States is

reason to 
going to have to do a lot more, and spend a lot more money in 

reduce world 
other places around the globe." "What we do not want to do to save some money on U.N.

contributions 
dues is to end up being respon­
sible for these kind of trouble By WILLIAM C. MANN spots ourselves," Nunn said on Associated Press NBC's "Meet the Press." 
The U.N. hierarchy was 
WASHINGTON 
shielded from many of the 
A former U.S. ambassador's problems in Morocco, but report of stalling tactics, thug­Secretary-General Boutros gery and deceit by Moroccan Boutros-Ghali indicated he was 
officials bent on thwarting a unhappy with the local U.N. 
U.N. peacekeeping operation is operation's performance and encouraging news to worried it would worsen the 
Republicans who want to cut United Nations' image before back U.S. contributions to the the new conservative world body. Republican majority in 
Frank S. Ruddy, former Congress, Ruddy said. deputy chairman of the U.N. Last November, two weeks operation in northwest Africa, after the Republicans' electorai 
told Congress last week that sweep, Boutros-Ghali visited local U.N. administrators cov­the Western Sahara U.N. oper­ered up problems with the ation, talked with local officials Moroccan operation. and toured MINURSO's desert 
Ruddy said Moroccan officials headquarters, Ruddy said. forced U.N. airplanes to fly "He pulled no punches," empty to show Moroccan sover­Ruddy said. "He was well eignty, tapped telephones of aware of the fiscal responsibili­
U.N. administrators, beat up ty this Congress will demon­people who tried to register, strate." even forced removal of the U.N. Boutros-Ghali spoke of "a flag from the U.N. building new negative American atti­where voters were to be regis­tude," Ruddy said. tered. He likened the tactics to Begun in September 1991 at those of the Mafia. a cost of $100,000 per day, 
MINURSO's mission was to "Both the Moroccans in monitor a cease-fire in the war Western Sahara and MINURSO between Morocco and Western (the U.N. operation) are out of Sahara guerrillas and to stagecontrol right now," Ruddy told by the end of 1992 a referen­a hearing on the Republicans' dum on independence for the National Security Revitalization would-be Sahrawi Arabic Act. Democratic Republic in 
The legislation, under scruti­Western Sahara. ny by at least three House The current schedule calls for committees, would restructure a vote in November, but Ruddythe formulas that determine said a referendum will be 
U.S. contributions to peace­impossible to conduct without keeping and regular opera­serious reform. tions. Even the June 1994 start of a 
"We are a generous coun­voter-identification drive, by try," said Louisiana Rep. Bob which residents of the Western Livingston, Republican chair­Sahara would be cleared to 
man of the House vote in the referendum, was 
Appropriations Committee. But delayed 2 1/2 months, Ruddy in the face of widespread waste said. and mismanagement, he said, The reason: an argument"we simply can't keep writing over what to call representa­
checks every time there's a tives of the Organization of good idl;la." African Unity monitoring the One of Congress' leading de· process. 
David Mamet's American Buffalo 

Directed by Stephen Susco 
February 2-4, 1995 Washington Hall Mainstage 8:10pm 
$3.00 Reserved Seating Tickets on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk 
Produced by the Notre Dame Student Players Produced by special arrangement with Samuel French, Inc. 
•• NOTE: play contains profanity and harsh language 




~----~p_ag~e_G__--_____________________________-__-_---~~~-----~~~T~h~e~O~b~s~e~~~er~•~~~-E~~~~S-~~~~-~~~~-~~~-------------------~----_-M__o_n-_d_a_y_.-J-a_n_u_a_-ry_-_3_0_,_1_9~9~5----• 
U.S., China on brink Salute to cap music awards 
ByJENNIFER BOWLES tion, which will close its doors Zeppelin with the International Associated Press by summer. Artist Award. Robert Plant and
of all-out trade war 
The tribute will cap a busy Jimmy Page will perform. By MARTIN CRUTSINGER strate the will to take decisive LOS ANGELES night of song and dance includ­Making another appearance Associated Press action." When Ken Kragen began ing Madonna and Babyface will be Snoop Doggy Dogg, 
However, China blamed the gathering a superstar cast for backed by a 25-piece band for whose performance at last WASHINGTON United States for the failure of "We Are the World," he aimed "Take A Bow," Little Richard year's awards spurred some 
The United States and China the talks. Chinese negotiators to lure 15 top singers. He singing "Tutti Frutti" with The controversy. moved closer to an all-out trade "made ultimate efforts and wound up with 45. Go-Gos, and the musician for­The rapper, whose real name war Saturday, although U.S. of­showed considerable flexibili­"I had a very simple system," merly known as Prince offering is Calvin Broadus, faces trial on ficials said they hoped that one ty," China's state-run news recalled Kragen, who organized a medley of hits before receiv­murder conspiracy charges in last negotiating effort would be agency reported. the effort with Harry Belafonte. ing the Award of Merit. the drive-by shooting of a man made before a Feb. 4 deadline. U.S. negotiators made new "I took the record charts and I "He's due," Clark said. "He Broadus contends was stalking 
Officials in both countries demands as the talks were worked my way down. I wanted is, in his generation, one of the him. Authorities allege Broadus said that nine days of talks about to end that went "beyond 15, but when I got Bruce top two or three performers, was driving a Jeep from which aimed at halting the piracy of the scope of intellectual prop­Springsteen, the flood gates producers and songwriters. his bodyguard fired the fatal American computer software, erty," the Xinhua News Agency opened." He's truly a multifaceted shots. music and movies ended Satur­said. Many of those artists will at­artist." This year, Broadus will be a day in Beijing without a final Kantor told reporters during tend the 22nd annual American Leading nominees for presenter. agreement. a telephone conference call Music Awards Monday night to competitive awards were "The man is accused of some­
U.S. Trade Representative Saturday that the discussions take part in a salute to the song Mariah Carey and Boyz II Men thing and he hasn't been Mickey Kantor told reporters had resulted iii some limited and subsequent album that with four nods apiece. Groups proved guilty of anything. What that he had invited the Chinese progress. raised more than $60 million with three nominations includ­does that have to do with his to send a delegation to But he said that more needed for African famine relief. ed Ace of Base, All-4-0ne, music? At the moment he's an Washington next week for one to be done in the areas of en­It was after the American Mu­Counting Crows and Salt-N­innocent man," Clark said. final attempt to resolve the is­hanced protection for trade­sic Awards on Jan. 28, 1985, Pepa. Michael Bolton, Toni During the three-hour ABC­sue. He said he had not yet re­marks, providing unimpeded that Lionel Richie, Michael Braxton, Warren G, Vince Gill, TV telecast, winners of compet­ceived word whether they access for American companies Jackson, Kenny Rogers, Tina Alan Jackson, Reba McEntire, itive awards will be announced would accept the invitation. to sue violators in Chinese Turner, Stevie Wonder and 40 Tim McGraw and Stone Temple in 22 categories spanning coun­
If the Feb. 4 deadline arrives courts, establishing an im­other artists drove to A&M Pilots each had two nom­try, soul, heavy metal, hard without an agreement, Kantor proved verification system for Studios in Hollywood for an all­inations. rock, rhythm and blues, rap said the administration would copyrights and eliminating the night recording session of "We The show will also honor Led and hip hop. issue a final list of Chinese purchase of pirated computer are the World," which was products which would be hit by software by the Chinese written by Richie and Jackson. punitive tariffs of 100 percent. government. Producer Quincy Jones posted 
A month ago, the United The latest round of talks be­a sign: "Check Your Egos at the 
!Recycle The Observer! 
States published a list of $2.8 gan Jan. 18 in an effort to avert Door." billion worth of products, rang­a trade war between two of the "It's a very difficult thing to ing from electronic goods to world's largest trading part­do," said Dick Clark, producer toys, from which the final tar­ners. of the American Music Awards. Wow! get list of about $1 billion Negotiators had been under "How do you get all these high­would be drawn. Kantor said pressure to wrap up the talks ly paid, egotistical people in the the higher tariffs would take soon because China's most im­same room and do something 
Holy Cow! 

effect within a matter of days. portant holiday, the lunar new nice and not get paid for it?" 
The Chinese have warned year, is Tuesday. It was the images of hunger that if the United States does 'We don't want to see a trade and death recorded in Ethiopia impose punitive tariffs, they are war," Xinhua quoted an by African filmmaker Mo­
~®~

prepared to retaliate with trade unidentified Ministry of Foreign hammed Amin that spurred sanctions against U.S. compa­Trade and Economic Coopera­Kragen and Belafonte to action. nies, triggering a full-fledged tion spokesman as saying. "All of us had seen. it and we trade war between two of the The official said China were primed to move," said 
©®~O®W 

world.'s largest trading part­believes it is important to pro­Kragen. "It was the fuel that ners. tect intellectual property rights. drove everything else that came The United States has But he repeated China's warn­thereafter." 
is 21! 

charged that American produc­ing that it would not be pres­Over 10 years, the song, ers of computer programs, mu­sured, saying China would through USA for Africa, has sic CDs and movies are losing immediately retaliate if trade provided $61.8 million to 18 
Love,

more than $1 billion annually sanctions are applied by the African nations, said Marcia from rampant piracy. United States. Thomas, head of the organiza-Tania, Glenn, and Shiela 
Kantor said that talks in Bei­U.S. negotiators want China jing broke down because the to close 29 factories in southern Chinese had failed to "demon-China. 
'lnterracial 'Relationships 
-When Two Worlds Meet ­with 
u.c. BERKELEY -ETHNIC STUDIES 

Monday, January 30, 1995 Hesburgh Library Auditorium 7:30 pm 
sponsored by The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs & Lill Fundin . 


Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
UN rights agency Long lifespan astounds researchers 
opens annual session 
By CAROLYN HENSON 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 

Although its members can't even agree to start their meet­ings on time, the United Nations' human rights agency opens its annual session Monday with the aim of high­lighting the worst rights abusers of 1994. 
Over the next six weeks, Q.ele­gations from 53 member and 90 observer countries and over 150 private human rights groups will study reports of abuses, including the first pre­pared by the commission's new investigator into violence against women. They will seek new mandates for rights inves­tigators. 
But the underfunded U.N. Human Rights Commission has been able to prepare only one­fourth of the 120-odd docu­ments needed by delegates ­documents that will cost $10 million, or about half of the U.N.'s entire human rights bud­get. 
In general, tensions have been building up between members from the North and 



Humanitas 
The College of Arts and Letters Undergraduate Journal 
is seeking 

INTERESTING ESSAYS for the annual edition of the journal and INTERESTED STUDENTS for this year's staff. 
INTERESTED STUDENTS should attend a brief informational meeting for the 1995 staff on Friday, February 3, at 3:30p.m. in 115 O'Shaughnessy 
Positions are still available! 
1) Three copies of the essay WITHOUT your name anywhere on them 
2) A cover sheet with: 
• 
yourname 

• 
campus address 

• 
campus phone number 

• 
year in school 

• 
title of the essay 

• 
class for which the essay was written. 


3) Please leave all materials in the Humanitas mailbox located in the English Department Office--356 O'Shaughnessy. 
the South ever since an attempt last autumn to overhaul the 48­year-old agency's bureaucracy ended in dismal failure. 
The outgoing chairman, Dutch diplomat Peter Van Wulfften Palthe, accused some member countries of actively blocking even the most basic reforms, such as a proposal to start meetings on time. 
"There is a lack of political will to arrive at some result which I find quite sad," Van Wulfften Palthe told reporters. 
Cuba, Iran and China have all played a leading role in trying to thwart Western plans to streamline the commission and make it more effective. 
U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees Jose Ayala Lasso de­scribed the level of abuses last year as "unprecedented." The delegates will consider about 50 reports of human rights abuses. 
However, as in past years, politics will dictate the agenda. 
Iran, Iraq, and Burma are ex­pected to come into the usual criticism. Last year's genocide in Rwanda and atrocities in for­mer Yugoslavia will also be under the spotlight. 

frtJ GRFA'f 'YALL 
JJ.~ CHINESE AMERiCAN RESTAURANT & COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
~ Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine\ 
Jan. 20 • 11:30 a.m. •3:00 p.m.

SPECIAL CHINESE $895 
Jan. 30 • 5:00 p.m. · 0:00 p.m.

NEW YEAR BUFFET Jan. 31 • 5:00 p.m. • 0:00 p.m. 
All YOU CAH EAT Children Under 10 Half Price ~nc:~u<m Soup, Appetizef, aEntrees and Dessert (Other menu items also available) 

Want to Publish? 
INTERESTING ESSAYS should be: 
PLEASE SUBMIT 
DEADLINE: Friday, February 17th at 3:30p.m. 
QUESTIONS? Please contact Becky Kroeger (4-3727) or Professor Christopher Fox (1-7226) 
;fl. • 
• 
from the College of Arts and Letters written in English 

• 
less than 30 pages long 

• 
analytically oriented (No creative writing exercises or personal essays.) 


Life goes on -and on­in Italian hamlet 
By BRIAN MURPHY Associated Press 
CAMPODIMELE, Italy 

One of the young bloods in the piazza turned his face to the winter sun and breathed deep. 
"It's the air, I tell you," de­clared 77-year-old Pasquale Masella. 
His friend, who said he was 86, had other ideas. "The food," he insisted. 
Researchers are paying close attention to such debates while trying to "pinpoint the roots of the remarkable longevity among residents in Campodimele, a mountaintop village about 70 miles southeast of Rome. 
Although the focus of the studies vary -from lifestyle to blood pressure to genetic traits -the findings add up to one conclusion: The hamlet seems a near-ideal union of the classic 
'95-'96 

Only 2 Houses Left 
•4 and 5 bedroom ·•Security Systems 
•Fully Furnished 258-9996 
Pat McKelvey $100 off 
first month's rent with this ad 
Mediterranean diet and healthy bucolic living. 
More than 10 percent of the 900 people in the village are between 75 and 99 years old, the age of the oldest resident. Less than 5 percent of Italians as a whole and about 5.5 per­cent of Americans are in the same age bracket. 
The studies of longevity ­and especially continued good health with advancing years ­carry an added significance in many Western nations because more people are living long lives. 
"Campodimele is not unique, but I believe it's about as close as you can get to the perfect environment for a long life,". said Dr. Alessandro Menotti, a researcher in Rome who stud­ied cholesterol levels in the vil­lage in the mid-1980s. 
Most people had a cholesterol reading around 100 -less than the half the average level in most Western nations. 
Another researcher, Dr. Pietro Cugini, recently pub­lished a report on four years of monitoring the blood pressure of 94 elderly residents. The study, published in Chronobiology International, found that both blood pressure and its daily fluctuations were unusually low -both key markers of good health. 
"No one -even the oldest people -is inactive, and they are able to get around by them­selves. It was very, very impres­sive to see," said Cugini, who plans to continue research into 'how longevity is affected by life rhythms such as waking early and eating at regular times. 
He also plans studies into a possible genetic link to the low blood pressure in the village. 
In northern Italy, some resi­dents of a similarly isolated vil­lage, Limone, were found to carry genes protecting them from fatty deposits that clog arteries. 
But the main forces guiding the long lives in Campodimele appear to be the simple formu­la of good diet and exercise. 
Nearly everyone works in gardens or cares for chickens and other small animals. Walking is the only way to get around. The village, surround-

come to a free ---I 
I
LSAT seminar I I 
Date: Tuesday, January 31' Time: 7:30-9:30 pm Location: 119 DeBartolo Hall Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
·As documented In the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Performance Study conducted by Price Watertlouse. 
Come to a free GMATseminar 
Time: 6:30-8:30 pm 117 DeBartolo Hall 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score



KAPLAN 
come to a free GREseminar 
--"I 
' I 

Date: Tuesday, January 31 
1-800-KAP-TEST 

Time: 7-9 pm get a higher score Location: 118 DeBartolo Hall 
KAPLAN 

ed by medieval walls, is a war­ren of narrow streets, alleys and stone steps. 
The diet exemplifies the Mediterranean cuisine: very lit­tle meat, salt and butter; much pasta and raw vegetables; mod­erate amounts of wine. Unusual for Italy, few people in the vil­lage are heavy coffee drinkers. 
"We should look at Cam­podimele with respect. It should not be the exception, but the rule," said Franz Halberg, a University of Minnesota profes­sor who is using data from the village as part of a global study on blood pressure and diet. 
All the laboratory analyses and record-keeping bemuse the elders in Campodimele, which means "field of honey" in the local dialect. 
"I don't know why they are spending all this time," said Pasquale Pannozzi, 83. "The answer is easy: This is a perfect spot. No stress. Who would want to die?" 
Like many villagers, Pannozzi emigrated to Canada to find work as a young man. He re­turned a few years ago because he didn't want to spend his old age there. 
Luigi Pecchia, 82, looked out over the valley of olive groves and deep green cypress trees. "Nearly everyone in my family lived into their 90s," he said. "It seems just natural." 
"Hard work," said his uncle and the village oldster, 99-year­old Gerardo Pecchia. "Hard work keeps you young." 
Some see more opportunities for keeping busy. 
The village's spreading repu­tation as a pocket of long and healthy lives is starting to draw tourists, mostly Italians but some Germans and others who stop by for a look. 
The region's annual almanac devotes an entire chapter to the reports and newspaper clip­pings about Campodimele's elderly residents. 
The village has a new large restaurant, La Longevita (The Longevity). that serves a local dish as its specialty: wild peas over mushy pasta made from semolina. And the owner of the coffee shop off the main piazza is planning to spruce up his place for tourists. 

KAPLAN 

page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 30, 1995 
By DONNA ABU-NASR 
Associated Press 

GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip 
They may be educated or illit­erate, pampered sons or cal­loused laborers. But they have one thing in common: their readiness to turn themselves into human bombs to kill Israelis in the name of Allah. 
It is not always clear what motivates these young men to strap explosives to their bodies and blow themselves up. Some want to avenge the killing of a relative or a friend, others act for purely religious or ideologi­cal reasons. 
Last week's attack -a dou­ble suicide bombing that killed 21 Israelis -was an occasion for some Gaza youths to rejoice over the blow dealt to their enemy. 
"Did you see how the Jews were crying on television?" said a 19-year-old laborer, his eyes sparkling with pride, but insist­ing his name not be published to avoid retribution. "I want to become a martyr like that to scare the Jews, to send them to hell." 
Lacking a sophisticated arse­nal, the militant Islamic Jihad and Hamas groups have turned suicide bombing into a major weapon in their fight to kill the lsrael-PLO peace agreement and establish an Islamic regime. 
In the past four months alone, 54 Israelis died in suicide attacks claimed by the two fundamentalist groups, includ­ing last week's attack and an Oct. 19 bus bombing in Tel Aviv that killed 22 people. 
The attacks have had an effect. Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said Sunday that peace with the Palestinians was at a crossroads because of Islamic terrorism and talks would not be pursued at any price. 
Sheik Abdallah Shami, spiri­tual leader of Islamic Jihad, said religious belief is the key motivator of the attacks. 
"It's faith that makes them long for martyrdom," Shami said in an interview before he was detained by Vasser Arafat's PLO police. 
Others say the reasons are more complex. 
"It's not easy to pinpoint one single reason. It's a mixture of religion, history and the right 
personality,"  said  Samir  
Kouteh, a psychiatrist.  
He  said  many  of  Gaza's  

in mosques during the six violent years of the Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule when they saw fam­ily members, neighbors or friends killed by the Israelis. 
"In religion, they found the only means to avenge those who died and afthe same time score a victory over the Israelis," said Kouteh. "The men who carry out these attacks are usually very bright, zealous and adventurous." 
Ariel Merari, head of the political violence center at Tel Aviv University, said the most important factor is personality. He noted that some Arab sui­cide bombers in Lebanon were not religious. 
"He does it because he wants to die for all kinds of personal reasons. Religious belief is just a cover," Merari said. "The charismatic influence of.a sheik can sometimes give extra legiti­macy for something someone wants to do." 
One recent bomber who had a personal motive was Salah Ab­del-Rahim Assawi, 21, who car­ried out the Tel Aviv bus bomb­ing. He left a tape saying he did so in part to avenge the death of his 14-year-old brother, who was killed in the uprising. 
Before Arafat's Palestinian Authority took control of the Gaza Strip and West Bank town of Jericho last May, few parents spoke out against the risk their sons took in fighting the Israelis. 
But there are signs of change. 
When mosque loudspeakers announced that Anwar Sukkar, 23, had died as a suicide bomber last Sunday, his father, Mohammed, and other relatives lunged at the Islamic Jihad ac­
-$.~~1tt'k'ti?f;;::'~;;:' 
c: 0')-1'
;"' ~,i' ,~-.... ' /. 
~ 
Looking for a place to stay during: c~ Junior Parents Weekend? c~ Graduation Weekend? c~ April Stud. Activity Events? c~ Home Football Games? 
Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•
Accomodates up to 14 



Available to Show ·by Appointment Call Helen for More Information @ 219 287-8163 

house, spitting on them and cursing them. One relative threw a flower pot at them. 
Anwar Sukkar lived across the street from Shami, who has rallied many youths to his side in the Shajaia neighborhood. 

azaz lived, at least six Palestinians have been killed since the Palestinian uprising began in 1987. 
Two days before Sukkar blew himself up, he spent more time with his family, took pictures with them and prayed a lot. His brother, Abdul-Rahim, 18, said Sukkar was quite calm and showed no signs of nervous­ness. 

Both Hamas and Islamic Jihad use schools, mosques, jails and especially wakes held for martyrs to spread the gospel about jihad, or holy war. 
At wakes, fiery speeches extol the virtues of martyrdom and promise heavenly rewards in the hereafter that appeal to young people on Gaza's sewage-soaked streets. 
"When Allah imposed jihad on us, he realized it would be hard for a person to relinquish this life for an unknown world," said Shami. "He made this path desirable by promising us par­adise.'' 
In paradise, the martyr can eat the most delicious food, the most luscious fruits and the tenderest cuts of meat. It is por­trayed as a world of castles, flowing rivers and lush fields. 
The martyr also gets to sit on the right-hand side of God and enjoys the attentions of 72 nymphs, Shami said. 
"Jihad is the shortest path to this life," he said. 

Shami said a young man can apply for martyrdom to the group's military wing. Islamic Jihad's intelligence officers then monitor the candidate closely to make sure he is not an Israeli agent and to check his devoutness. 
"The most faithful man is 
chosen," said Shami. 
Have some­thing to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

Something Special is Happening at Equis 
Equls, a national commercial real estate services firm, is searching for Notre Dame's most dynamic and aggressive candidates to become Equis brokers. 
All interested students are invited to attend our informal presentation on: Thursday, february 23 foster Room La Fortune Student Center 6:00PM 
Our on-campus recruiting date Is Friday, February 24. Students interested in meeting with us should submit their resume to Career and Placement Services for review or call... 


..........~....~~........~~------~....................................~--~------------~----------~-.~-----.~----~---~ 
CAMPUSES 
January 30, 1995 
USC, Williams study college choice 
By MARCY DINIUS 
Campuses Editor 
In a report published by econ­omists at Williams college and the University of Southern California, researchers found that students arc not choosing public colleges and universities over private institutions due their inability to afford their higher costs, contrary to popu­lar belief. 
USC Professor Morton Schapiro states, "It's popular to say that middle-income stu­dents are too poor to afford the elite private colleges and uni­versities like Williams, Harvard and USC, that they're too 'rich' to get financial aid there, so they're all going to the public institutions. The data show that's just not true. Private schools aren't losing these stu­dents to anybody else. There are simply fewer middle-in­come students out there." 
In response to colleges' in­creased offering of merit aid to middle-income students, Williams College Professor Michael McPherson states, "Administrators at private insti­tutions cite the mythical mid­dle-income melt to justify the dramatically growing propor­tion of merit aid they've been handing out during the past decade, but the real reason for the growth in merit aid has been the loss of upper-income, full-tuition-paying students." 

In compiling their findings, Schapiro and McPherson stud­ied attendance patterns and economic backgrounds of na­tional college freshman as re­ported in the American Freshman Survey in 1993 and compared them to those of freshmen in 1980. 
Findings included a relatively constant number of middle-in­come freshmen at private insti­tutions, while public colleges and universities experienced only a slight decline in the en­rollment of middle-income stu­dents whose families ranged from $30,000 to $100,000 in 1993 and from $15,000 to $50,000 in 1980. 
Yet figures do indicate that middle-income students now comprise a shrinking percent­age of the freshmen at all types of higher-education institutions. In 1980, 62.4% of freshmen were from middle-income fami­lies while in 1993, only 58.4% were middle-income students. 
The study was inspired by re­ports of a decrease in middle­income enrollment in private institutions and an increased move in students toward "Public Ivys." 
Yet Schapiro states, "Fewer middle-income students are attending private universities, but that's because there are fewer of these students in high­er education and elsewhere. They're as likely to go to pri­vate universities and colleges now as before." 
Stanford examines Core program 
By MARCY DINIUS 
Campuses Ediwt 
In response to a proposal urg­ing the reevaluation of the Cultures, Ideas and Values pro­gram required of all freshman and transfer students at Stanford University, many se­nior faculty members are now considering abandoning the program instead of altering it, according to Paul Seaver, pro­fessor of history and head of the Stanford CIV program. 
If a signilicant number of pro­fessors were to no longer teach in the CIV program, the prob­lem of not having a sufficient number of faculty members willing to teaeh to allow the program's continuation could arise. 
Many faculty members threatened to leave the pro­gram after resisting suggestions for change in the CIV program offered by the university's Commission on Undergraduate Education. 
The commission's report stat­ed that students were con­cerned in the variations found within the nine tracks in the CIV program, including differ­ences in purpose, work load and grading policy. Also, the commission stated that the works of the six authors in­cluded in the course readings and the supervisory efforts of the CIV advisory committee have "been able to provide the kind of cohesion and consis­tency promised by the pro­gram's founding legislation." 
Though the commission fur­ther stated that the program does provide a significant and often unique learning experi­ence, it suggested an immediate transformation of the CIV pro­gram by the faculty members that would teach in the pro­gram's new version. Such changes could possibly lead to the program being renamed, with new courses beginning in the fall of 1998. 
Changes would include the revision of some existing tracks along with the addition of sev­eral new tracks, with each ex­amining a common set of themes and problems in various cultures. The goal of such changes would be to provide "the proper forum for a critical and historically informed dis­cussion of issues of ethnicity, cultural identity, and political and social values," according to the committee report. 
Yet CIV professors responded in a Campus Report, "Neither is it practical to consider such a change without asking who, besides historians, will be able and willing to design and teach a course." 
Program director Seaver warns that any "straightjacket" imposed by the commission's recommendations could lead to the loss of some tracks and, thus, cause an increase in class size due to the fewer number of classes. This increase would also compromise the quality of the course, since students bene­fit more from smaller classes than from larger lecture cours­es, especially with freshmen not being as experienced in such classes as are upperclassmen. 
Seaver stated that freshmen in larger classes tend to feel "anonymous and invisible" and that "if we lose our smaller classes, there's not much justi­fication for going to Stanford rather than Berkeley." 
Currently, the CIV program depends upon different de­partments to volunteer senior faculty members to teach in CIV courses. Yet professors from these departments have been resistant thus far to any changes in the program that would attempt to cover a large amount of diverse material in a short period of time. 
On February 9, the Faculty Senate is scheduled to discuss the issue of change in the CIV program and to establish guide­lines for any changes that the committee for cultures curricu­lum design would suggest. 
page 9 
• 

Cornell Construction Course Puts Students In Real-World Bidding Frenzy 
The bidding war has erupted, turning Cornell's Hollister Hall, home of the school of civil and environmental engineer­ing, into a frenzy of wheeling and dealing as students-turned construction engineers compete to get a contract to build • 
. complete • an addition to Auburn, N.Y.. Memorial Hospital. It's a real-world exercise, but one they take seriously. as the students aim to perfect their negotiating skills as well as their engineering expertise in a class project. 
All 66 students, divided into eight teams, were part of their semester's Civil Engineering 595, Construction Planning and Operations, taught by Professor Kenneth Hover. In the annual Competitive Bidding Simulation Exercise. as in the real world, sales calls came in right up to the last. minute before sealed bids were due at midnight. 
"When they finish this, the students will have a realistic exposure to cost-estimating and negotiating for building con­struction," said Hover, who has been offering the program annually for six years. "They have to present a legally ac­ceptable bid at a realistic price." 
"We are simulating a real-world situation. Before they turn in a prize, this fs what they have to go through," summed up Hover. 
MSU Study offers good news for seniors 
EAST LANSING, Mich. (AP) This year's college seniors have the best shot in at landing a job right out ofsc\lool compared to recent years. 
· Hiring is projected to go up 5.9 percent over last year, ac­cording to a survey released Monday by the Collegiate Employment Research Institute at Michigan State University. 
"New graduates should get better replies from employers than they have been receiving for the last three or four years," said Patrick Scheetz. the institute's director. The increase rep­resents a "modest recovery from a very severe eroision of the job market," be said. 
New college grads can expect to take home annual pay­checks ranging from $20,821 for telecommunications jobs to $40,689 for chemical engineers, according to the survey of 545 businesses, industries and government agencies. 
Pay was higher in all parts of the country and in all occupa­tions -'" ranging from a L3 percent hike to $23,856 for hotel restaurant managers, to a jump of 2.6 percent to $35,302 for electrical engineers. 
Hiring of new graduates had declined more than 30 percent in the four years prior to last year's upwards jump of 1.1 per­cent, Scheetz said. 
UMass builds world's largest wave telescope 
The development of a Mexico-United States project to build a $46 million, 50-meter diameter radio telescope was announced via video conference linking officials in Boston and Mexico City, publicizing the details of a partnership for build­ing the world's largest and most sensitive millimeter-wave telescope in the next five years. 
The Large Millimeter Wave Telescope (LMT) facility -or "Gran Telescopio Milimetrico" as it is known in Spanish-will be built in the u.s; and transported to a location in Mexico at a yet-to-be determined site. Mexico will fund half of the project. "A Mexican site will provide a much better view than one in the continental U.S.," says professor William Irvine, UMass 
·principal investigator of the LMT project. The joint venture could provide American scientists with 
. important new data about how the universe formed, and help 
' ¢reate dozensofjobJ; for highly skilled American and Mexican technicians and scientists. 
UConn Study Shows Women Underrepresented 
By KATHY HAUSMANN 
Assistant Campuses Editor 
A two-year study on gender distribution conducted by President Harry J. Hartley's Commission on the Status of Women at the University of Connecticut shows that despite an increase in female faculty hiring, women are still under­represented in UConn's top administration and faculty, and female undergraduates remain concentrated in traditionally female fields. 
Conducted in 1993-94, the study was designed in response to national concerns about the low enrollment of women in traditionally male fields, under­representation of women fac­ulty in higher ranks, and hostile environments to women in academia. 
Women employed at the Uni­versity remain concentrated in clerical and low-ranking posi­tions, according to the study. Of the 1,362 faculty members at the University, 30 percent are women. While four percent of women hold administrative or managerial positions, compared to three percent of men, only 14 percent of the women have positions such as vice president, dean, or director. 
Almost one-half of men in the same category, however, hold positions in the higher ranks. While 18 percent of women fac­ulty are full professors, 46 per­cent of men hold that rank. 
However, an analysis of faculty hiring patterns from 1989 to 1992 reveals 38 percent of the 219 positions filled were women, the study says. 
The study also points out that over the 11-year period ana­lyzed, women students were generally concentrated in tradi­tionally female courses of study -education, family studies, and care-giving programs. 
During that same period, male-dominated fields such as finance, management informa­tion systems, mathematics, engineering, computer science, and economics, have lost more than their share of female sin­dents, and have become even more predominantly male than a decade ago. 
The report points out clearly that rather than moving toward greater diversity and inclusive­ness, the University has been losing female students. The study is the first step bringing to everyone's awareness that this has been happening, although the process has been unconscious and undeliberate, believes Myra Marx Ferree, a professor of sociology and co­chair of the commission. 
Ferree says the commission will conduct a follow-up study. "Now that we have a sense of what is happening at a broad level, we have to look at how the problem was produced, and once we know that, we'll know better how to fix it." 
The report recommended to the president's office that ad­ministrative units should en­courage and finance efforts by departments in the recruit­ment, retention, and graduation of women; require the admis­sions office to develop plans for recruiting women students in underrepresented fields, with the results becoming a part of the admission's office's annual report to the University Senate; and to encourage the financial aid offices to increase the total pool of University fellowship money by establishing a fellow­ship program designed to recruit highly qualified women graduate students into depart­ments where they are most underrepresented, among other suggestions. 
~--~-----------------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager john Lucas joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizaberh Regan Controller ..•...........................•....•. Kristen Martina 
The Observer is rhe independem newspaper published by rhe studems of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflecr the policies of rhe administra­rion ofeirher insriturion. The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Edi£Or, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily chose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• THE W!NUR Of MY DISCONTENT 
Invasion of the PC bandits 
Just how far should inclusive language go? 
The other day I returned to my room to fmd two of classroom and, God forbid, the existence of a chapel in my section mates studying for an introductory theology each dormitory is liable to have on this poor sensitive exam or quiz or some other sort of nefarious test of fellow. their Biblical proficiency. Not wanting to disturb this In other words, while the efforts of those professors collective academic endeavor, I deposited my coat and who choose to require the use of "BCE" and "CE" are book bag and was about to leave when I heard one of no doubt appreciated by the budding Madeline my studious associates mention to his partner that Murray-O'Hares of the campus, the phrase "too little "Isiah finished his ministry in 701 BCE." Intrigued by too late" does come to mind. I'm afraid we'll have to his addition of the letter "E" to the standard abbrevia-chalk up our mythical radically sensitive individual as tion for "Before Christ," I inquired as to its signifi-just another victim of our domineering and imperialist cance. In response I was notified :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::= Western Christian culture. Oh well, I that within their particular class for one have always enjoyed the section "Before Common Era" and irony inherent in the fact that even "Common Era" had been officially Chri•S the most vitriolic of atheists must at mandated to replace the tradition-least subtly acknowledge the divine al "Before Christ" and "Anno when they date a letter or refer to Domini." Somewhat bemused by historical events. 
K t •1 
this incident I decided to ask ra OVI I suppose that proponents of the around so as to determine if this PC-ization of the calendar could politically correct modification of -attempt to formulate the argument the traditional calendar was that their new terminology is more indicative of a wider trend or if historically relevant. They might these particular students had simply stumbled into a contend that "Common Era" is a more accurate class section presided over by an overly "sensitive" and description than is "The Year of Our Lord." Hmmmm. I I or culturally revisionist professor. To my utter amaze-would again beg to differ; What is it exactly that lends ment, every freshman in an intro theology class that I any degree of communality to the last two millennia talked to admitted that they too had been ordered to that was not found in ancient times? Has some sort of use "BCE" and "CE" when referring to dates in their political hegemony been achieved that could be char­class work. acterized as "common?" Hardly. What about linguistic, 
My initial reaction to this news was one of vague and cultural or economic uniformity? No, none of these benign amusement but after dedicating a bit of thought things can be characterized as having emerged as to this matter, I found myself somewhat disturbed by "common" over the previous 2000 years. The rise of its underlying implications. Attempting to remove men-Christianity as the primary religion of the Occidental tion of Jesus Christ from the calendar at an unrepen-World is the only "common" characteristic to begin tantly Roman Catholic university is clearly a patently history in the 1 "CE." absurd, if not mildly offensive, process. Since the term The simple fact is that if one chooses to utilize the "Common Era" is both non-traditional and historically birth of Jesus Christ as the reference point at the basis meaningless, I gather that the rational for this move of the calendar -as opposed to, for example, the faun­stems from the fear that someone on this campus is dation of Rome, Mohammed's flight to Medina or the libel to take offense at being forced to use an admitted-scientifically determined age of the Earth -one should ly Western and Christian system of dating years. So be acknowledge the event in question by name and not by it. There are innumerable aspects of life on this cam-a nebulous and entirely trumped up term. This is dou­pus that would probably render even the greater bly true at a university dedicated to the teachings of offense to this hypothetical radical whose delicate psy-and service to the man whose birth marked the begin­che the faculty of the theology department is so nobly ning of this "Common Era." trying to protect by implementing PC-calendar termi­nology. If one is put off by the use of "BC" and "AD" Chris Kratovil is a sophomore government and imagine the potential damage that the very name of international studies major living in Planner Hall. this institution, the presence of a crucifix in every 


GARRY TRUDEAU
• llOONESBURY • QUOTE Of THE DAY 

''The unleashed power of 
the atom has changed 

everything save our modes of 
thinking, and we thus drift 
toward unparalleled catastro­
phes." 
-Albert Einstein 

~­
ACCENT 
Monday, January 30, 1995 page ll 
• fRESH THOUGHTS 
Beware: squirrel mutiny in progress 
lias any one noticed the size of the squirrels lately? The once scrawny rodents have grown to the size of toaster ovens and are now emit­ting very threatening guttural sounds. I think they are talking to each other and plotting their 


take over of campus. In August they were all too small and weak to attempt an offensive as big as taking over a university of 8,000 stu­dents. But now the buck-toothed critters, after spending all fall eating dining hall waste and sunning themselves in the glow of the Nuclear Hesearch center dumpster are the size of beavers. 
Dave Griffith 
Accent Columnist 

What first brought to my attention the real threat squirrels pose to a tree strewn campus such as Notre Dame was a Clusters breakfast cereal commercial in which a task force of three squir­rels storm the house of a man while he is eating breakfast. With the use of a large magnet, the squirrels pull the man to the ceil­ing trapping him many feet above the floor. Meanwhile, another squirrnl stealthily makes its blazing seek and capture mission, nabbing the open box of cereal. This concerns me-if squirrels are able to be trained to do menial chores such as break into homes, what's next. 
.Just think what would happen if some squirrels got ahold of some old MacGyver episode, or even worse, an "A" Team episode. We're talking bombs made from a walnut shell, some lake water, and a tiny bit of the dining hall's volatile eggplant parmesan. 
I saw it all in a TV movie called "Night of the Leapus", which came on one day after the game show "Press Your Luck". In this movie some rabbits got into a nuclear waste dump and somehow became genetically mutated. The rabbits grew to be over a story tall: they roamed the desert in the southwest eating small chil­dren and dogs. Eventually the army was called in to destroy the beasts and the army geneticist and his buxom nurse lived happily 1wer after. 
So how does a movie about rabbits the size of Winnebagos apply to Notre Dame's squirrels? Well, the squirrels here at Notre Dame have not been attacking small children-a few dogs and Eileen Kohlman, perhaps-but no small children. However the major concern I have is the safety of our campus. Unfortunately, the university as of yet does not have access to army infantry, F-16 lighters, or even Apache attack helicopters, although this is something Father Malloy says he is looking into for the 1995-96 school year. But, according to Malloy they will be used more towards the thwarting and capture of parietal breakers and vigilante bands of snowball lighters than the ex­termination of squirrels. 
And such is the attitude. No one wants to acknowledge the fact that at this very moment a mobile ground force of 1,000 squirrels is readying itself for the take over of this campus. Every one that visits the campus says, "Ohhhh, look at da cute wittle squirrels, they're so friendly, they come up and eat out of your hand." 
But don't you get it? That is what they want you to think. Sure they will eat out of your hand, but then they will turn right around and gnaw it to a bloody stump. 
Naive tourist: "Look guys there's the dome, but hold on.....Aww, look at dis adorwable wittle squirrel. Here little wittle squirrely-wirley have some popcorn." 
Now, squirrels are obviously not the most intelligent of God's creation; for example, they spend all fall sporadically burying countless numbers of nuts and then promptly forget where they hid the nuts. They spend all winter running around looking for their stash. So one would think an animal with roughly the intel­ligence of a tire iron would think to itself when offered a treat such as popcorn, "MMMMM, good...people food!" 
But in reality they are cold and calculating. They scamper around all cute-like trying to attract tourists attention; when they lull the passer-by into a false sense of security they strike right for the jugular. 
Habid squirrel (thinking): "Just come one step closer you stu­pid, bipedal demon. I'll bite your legs om" 
See, they are not tame, they are just not afraid of us any longer. They know that they can sneak into our rooms late at night through open windows and ventilation ducts and leave horse heads in our bed just to let us know they are watching us. And if you get one step out of line you wake up minus a few toes. 
There have also been reports of an e-mail message sent to Father Malloy from a Harold Nuts that demands that the University meets the squirrels demands or the University will be taken by force. 
The squirrels are demanding first, that the dining halls empty all cereal bins and refill them with Clusters cereal. Second, they want the movie "Caddyshack" banned from being shown at the Snite due to Bill Murray's cruelty towards the pesky gopher. Third, they want the statue of Mary atop the dome to be removed and replaced with a solid gold likeness of cartoon celebrity Hocky, the Flying Squirrel. 
Finally the squirrel community is demanding that Monk have 100 cases of Planters Mixed Nuts (no honey roasted peanuts please) delivflred in front of the statue of Jesus on God Quad at midnight tonight. 
I'd do what they say because they are already gathering in the tree outside my window demanding I surrender my Sam's Wholesale Club sized container of Planters peanuts. 
They're honey roasted, maybe they'll go away. 
Zamarelli sisters 'in the business' 

by LESLIE FIELD agent. 
Accent Writer 
The license was not easy to 
While most 16 year olds obtain. While many students were getting their drivers were holding down jobs at var­licenses, Saint Mary's students ious stores, camps and offices, Maureen and Maureen and 
The res a 'Th b' t th' Theresa were 
zam are IIi e lgges mg learning how to were already about the business measure rooms for in the is making people happy listings and prop­
process of . . . erly close on hous­obtaining aand forming fnendsh1ps. I es. They got up at 
license that think they really look up 6 a.m.' drove most people , an hour to do not earntO US. Cleveland, and until they are attended classes at in their mid-. the Hondoros 
die 3 o • s-a Maureen Zamare//1 Career Centers real estate until 8 p.m. license. They did this for 12 days in 57 years ago, the addition to 
happy and forming friendships. I think they really look up to us," said Maureen. She had her first listings last summer with her dad. She also earned the six percent commission that went along with each list­ing that she sold. "It is stress­ful, but if you like working with people like we do, it's great!" 
Their brother, Frank, obtained his real estate license when he was 18. 
"Everyone has made a big deal of the fact that we are the youngest ones ever." said Theresa. 
Both sisters also agreed that having their licenses while at Saint Mary's is 
Zamarellis' grandmother start­attending------------giving them a ed a small real estate agency re~iew ses-'our dad's main goal great incentive to 
in Warren, Ohio called s 1 o n s . do well. "It has 
Zamarelli Real Estate. Over the Maureen and has always been really helped me years, it has grown into a Theresa had to guide us in what he with my Glasses large, leading agency with 3 6 to take 12 of I . d d' t' like accounting, 
real estate agents. More hours each. ee S IS a goo 1rec 10n too," said Theresa. importantly, it has developed a They took 30 so we always have This sort of real reputation for making people hours in the th' t0 f II b k world application 
feel secure and excited at the departments some mg a ac is a quality that prospect of buying a new of finance, on.' Maureen and home. This is true not only for appraisal, Theresa's father home buyers, but for the law, and stresses. 
Theresa Zamarelli
agents and especially for the principle and Zamarelli sisters. practice. ------------"Our dad's main 
Many people view Zamarelli Real Estate as a family. This is not at all surprising consider­ing that the Zamarellis' father is the agency's owner. Their mother, a Saint Mary's gradu­ate, also has her real estate license, and their 2 3 year old brother, Frank, is a successful 
Once they had completed the 12 0 hours, they were able to take the test. Both passed due to their commitment to their classes and to the field of real estate. 
"The biggest thing about the business is making people goal has always been to guide us in what he feels is a good direction so we always have something to fall back on." 
And they undoubtedly will. With outgoing personalities and a love for the business, Maureen and Theresa will each become a classic success. 
.• ]! 
Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 

Thurman's shot propels Razorbacks to SEC win 
I 
I I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I 
~ 
I I I I 
ByJIM O'CONNELL Associated Press 

FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. 
Scotty Thurman's jumper with 11 seconds to play gave No. 9 Arkansas a 94-92 victory over No. 5 Kentucky Sunday, the Wildcats' first loss in the Southeastern Conference. 
The game was the first for Arkansas (16-4, 5-3) since its first loss in Walton Arena last Tuesday to Alabama. 
The Razorbacks appeared in trouble of dropping to 24-2 in their new building, but Thurman, who won the nation­al championship last season with a last-minute 3-pointer against Duke, gave them the lead for good with 11 seconds left. 
His jumper made it 93-92 and the last chance for Kentucky (13-3, 7-1) ended when Jeff Sheppard was stripped of the ball on the baseline by Clint McDaniel, who was fouled and made one of two free throws with .6 seconds left. 
Arkansas had lost three of seven entering the game, while Kentucky came in on a seven­game winning streak. 
Neither team led by more than five points over the final nine minutes and there were four lead changes and four ties in that span. Kentucky had taken a 92-91 lead with 23 sec­onds to play on a rebound bas­ket by Walter McCarty. 
Kentucky, as usual, lived with the 3-pointer, making 14-of-29, but its last of the game came with 8:02 to play. 
Those were the last of Tony Delk's career-high 31 points, which also was a record for an opponent in Walton Arena. Delk was 6-for-9 on 3-pointers and McCarty finished with 16 points. 
Corliss Williamson had a sea­son-high 28 points to lead the Razorbacks, while Thurman finished with 22 points on 5­for-6 field goal shooting and 8­for-8 at the free throw line. 
Reggie Garrett hit a shot from just inside midcourt at the half­time buzzer to give the Razor backs a 49-4 7 lead, their first since being up 10-9 4 1/2 minutes into the game. Garrett was able to get the shot off after Sheppard couldn't control a steal on the other side of the midcourt line. 
The game was attended by an arena record 20,298. 
No. 16 Wake Forest 63, Vanderbilt 51 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
Tim Duncan broke double fig­ures in points and rebounds for the lOth time this season as No. 16 Wake Forest overcame a sluggish offense Sunday for a 63-51 victory over Vanderbilt. 
Duncan scored 22 points and grabbed 14 rebounds. He's bro­ken double figures in both cate­gories three times this week, totaling 55 points, 45 rebounds and 13 blocked shots. 
Both teams were playing for the second straight day. For the Demon Deacons (12-4). the contest was an attempt at redemption after North Car­olina beat them 62-61 Saturday on a last-second shot. The Commodores were coming off a 66-58 victory at Louisiana State. 
Vanderbilt (9-7) did grab 21 offensive rebounds, but shot 18-for-67 (27 percent). a day after shooting 30 percent. 
Wake Forest has held 10 of 16 opponents to less than 39 percent shooting. The Demon Deacons only got two field goals in the last 15 minutes, and one was Randolph Childress' basket at the buzzer. They were 15­for-19 from the free-throw line. 
In losing to North Carolina, Wake Forest made just one basket in the last eight minutes. 
After falling behind 23-16 on Childress' 3-pointer, the Commodores scored seven straight points, tying the game on Frank Seckar's 3-pointer with 6:07 left in the half. 
Wake Forest went on a sec­ond seven-point run, again capped by a Childress 3-point­er. It was the Demon Deacons' last basket of the half and helped them take a 30-25 lead at the break. 

Duncan had eight points in the first six minutes of the sec­ond half. Vanderbilt took a timeout to design a defense to stop him, and did so by collaps­ing in the middle to prevent the ball from going inside. 
The Commodores failed to take advantage, making just one field goal in a span of near­ly 10 minutes. 
Travis Banks scored 16 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for Wake Forest, and Childress got 
15. Ronnie McMahan had 21 points and Seckar added 12. 
No. 21 Georgia Tech 81, Florida St. 68 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. 
Travis Best scored 27 points, and No. 21 Georgia Tech emerged from a sloppily played first half for an 81-68 victory Sunday over Florida State. 
The Yellow Jackets (13-6, 4-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) shot 
50.8 percent and had five play­ers in double figures. 
Michael Maddox, starting in place of James Forrest -who broke his hand in an auto acci­dent -added 14 points. 
Eddie Elisma had 15, Matt Harpring had 13 and Drew Barry·10. Barry's 3-point bas­ket with 1:31 remaining gave the Yellow Jackets a 72-63 lead that proved insurmountable for the Seminoles. 
Bob Sura led Florida State (9­7, 3-5 ACC) with 20 points. James Collins had 11 and Corey Louis added 10 for the Seminoles, who shot 42.6 per­cent. 
Florida State led 35-34 at halftime after a first half marred by a combined 22 turnovers. 
After exchanging the lead early in the second half, the Yellow Jackets went ahead for good at 49-47 on a layup by Harpring with 13:42 to go. 
Georgia Tech led by as many as 11 points before the Seminoles pulled to 67-63 on Collins' 3-pointer with 3:02 to go. 
Best had 15 points and Elisma added nine in the first half to keep the game close. 
Sura led the Seminoles with 10 points in the first half. 
The Yellow Jackets took a 13­6 lead before the Seminoles took their first edge at 16-15 on consecutive 3-point shots by Avery Curry. 
Sura hit a 3-pointer, then stole the inbound pass and made a layup to give Florida State its biggest lead of the half at 21-15. 
After Georgia Tech fought to retake the lead, Derrick Carroll hit two of his three 3-pointers with less than 2 minutes to go to put the Seminoles ahead at the half. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers, and editors. join The Observer staff. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party  SUMMER JOBS  Car -Buick Skyhawk'84, low  TOP 15 QUOTES FROM RIGHT­ 
NOTICES  Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  mileage, good condition,$ 1699,  PERSONAL  TO-LIFE'S TRIP TO D.C.  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  call Francois at 2345716  15. Maureen, do you have an atten­ 
Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  tion defecit disorder?  
Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  NEAR LAKE PLACID  David Mamet's  14. Mike and Mark locked them­ 
""CAMPUS BANDS/MUSICIANS"*  Air & Hotel From $429! Spring  CALL 1-800-786-8373  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  AMERICAN BUFFALO  selves in the bathroom!  
Break Travel1-800-678-6386  at $85,900. First Floor location.  Directed by Stephen Susco  13. Who's a dawg? I wasn't a dawg  
The Student Union Board is now  HELP  Finished basement with full lavato­ February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm  when I went to NO!  
accepting demo tapes to be consid·  Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  COMUTER BLUES  ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths  Washington Hall Mainstage  12. This van corners like a bathtub.  
- ered for the 1995 campus CD. Original music only, 1 song per  PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291  ibm compat. 486/50 w/ cd need sound hooked to cd  on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995.  Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at the LaFortune Information Desk  11. Uh oh-where's Lisa? 10. All right-who's biting my leg?  
demo please. Turn tape and short  WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa  & basic tutoring alter 6, jim  Call (616) 946-0700.  Produced by the Notre Dame  9. Vollie is MY friend! I want him to  
bio into SUB, second floor  Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  Student Players  sleep in my room.  
LaFortune, in "campus CD" box by  Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN­ •• note : play contains harsh pro­ 8. There's cabbage growing all over  
February 17. Questions? Call  $159! Key West $229! Daytona  AGE PAINTING CREWS,  fanity and some violenVadult  the place. Give me some ranch  
Ryan at 288-3952 or Steve at 232  Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­ THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR  386 SX-20, 2mb ram, 85mb hd, 3.5  themes  dressing and a fork and I'm good to  
4959.  800-678-6386  SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED  and 5.25 hd drives, keyboard,  go.  
TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED,  mouse, original software and manu­ ROSES ARE RED  7. Whatever they say about me in  
**CAMPUS CD 1995**•••••••••  Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU­ als, SVGA monitor. $475 obo. Two  VIOLETS ARE BLUE  the morning, don't believe them, it's  
Oceanview Room with a Kitchen  DENT.  4x9 SIMMs, $125 ea. obo. 271­ THE OBSERVER HAS A  not true.  
Math Tutoring  $129! Walk to best bars! Includes  5687  SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU  6. Single, attractive, heterosexual,  
234-1107  Free Discount Card which will save  NEEDED -former ISLI participants  Latino male, brother of Dominic,  
you $100 on food/drinksl1-800­678-6386  to facilitate one-day program February 4. Call1-7005.  TICKETS  VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly approaching and now is the time to  seeking.... 5. Maybe doing shotguns befor the  
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out  place a classified ad for your valen­ rally wasn't such a good idea.  
Pandora's Books 233-2342 NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  FOR RENT  I NEED KENTUCKY GA's. CALL MATT AT x2153.  tine. All Valentine's Day ads will appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's  4. Just drive up the one way street. If we're here in D.C. to change  
9-3 sundays  WHILE BUILDING YOUR  classified section of The Observer  laws, then we're going to have to  
RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  Room available for rent. 15 mins  on Tuesday, February 14.  break them first.  
Term Papers typed  (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ walk from campus, safe neighbor­ NEED BASKETBALL TIX FOR  3. What's that? It's a Zuhu love  
UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  hood and a neat and well kept  MARQUETTE GAME! II CALL  You may place your classified  stick.  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  home. $225 a month, includes use  MARTY 277-2710  Monday through Friday from 8am to  2. Well then that way I won't have  
273-4824  VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­ of all utilities. Serious students pre­ 3pm. We are located on the third  to feel you all night.  
DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­ ferred. Call Paul at (219)-232-2794.  Need Marquette GA's  floor of Lafortune. Place your ad  1. We have to sign a pledge of non­ 
265-7691  Call Chris x3767  now and beat the rush!  violence? We had a pillow fight  
Pick Up The $20,000 Check in this  HOMES FOR RENT  earler--does that count?  
year's campus telephone directory.  SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for  NEAR CAMPUS  
The yellow pages are reinvented  many positions (including summer).  232-2595  KEENAN REVUE TIX NEEDED  Sound Techs Needed!  
and more fun than ever before! Pick  Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits  My adorable little cousin Billy (and  Student Activities is now hiring  Listen tonight for all the best bands  
up your directory at your Residence  (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal  Oakhill Condo for RENT  three of his friends) are suffering  sound techs. Applications  and songs LIVE at midnight with  
Hall or Student Activities in  discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc­ for the 1995-1996 school year.  from a horribly debilitating and  available in the Student Activities  Paul.  
LaFortune Student Union if you  tors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet  For information call: 273-9438.  terminal disease. All they want, to  Office, 315 LaFortune.  
have not already received one, and  staff, + other positions. For more  make their little lives complete, are  Deadline Friday, February 3.  Nocturne. WSND 88.9 FM. Notre  
you could be loaded this spring!  information call:(206)634-0469  1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  tickets to the KEENAN REVUE.  Dame's other alternative.  
ext.V55842  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT  Have a heart. Give a little boy a  
Bridget's open 8-3  FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ chance at life. BTW, he'll pay.  Desperately seeking ride to Padre  
Tues. PENNY PICTURES  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­ 6551  Call Tim@ x1939  for Spring Break. Will split gas and  
Wed shade lane  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at  Keenan 3-N:  
WANTED  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  FOR SALE  $$$$ NEED KENTUCKY GAME TIX. CALL MIKE @277-1704 $$$$  x2702. COOK FOR LISKA AND SHE'S  Put on your robes and get ready for atrial.  
Seasonal and full-time employment  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SPRING  YOURS!!!  
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  available. No experience neces­ BREAK! No diets/drugs/exercise!  KEENAN REVUE TIX  
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  sary. For more information call1­ Fabulous Herbal Tablets: guaran­ Want to trade 2 FRI tix for 2 TH or  ! need 2 Petty tickets real bad. Call  Why am I here?  
1 (800)359-9808  206-634-0468 ext. C55842  teed results! Kelly (800)209-2150  SAT tix. Call John at x0858.  x4478  

Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• PRo GoLF 
Young Floyd grabs Senior Skins title 
By KEN PETERS Associated Press 
KOHALA COAST, Hawaii 

Haymond Floyd missed three birdie tries as the stakes and the tension mounted Sunday in the Senior Skins Game, then rolled in an 8-footer at No. 17 to win the richest hole $290,000-in skins history. 
The birdie putt for more than a quarter-million dollars came after Arnold Palmer had missed from 10 feet and Jack Nicklaus from 14 feet at the par-4, 411­yard 17th hole and gave Floyd the Senior Skins title for the second consecutive year. 
Floyd also led the first day of the 1995 tournament, with $130,000. His $420,000 total, like his single-hole earnings at No. 17, was the most money won in a skins competition either on the Senior Tour or the PGA Tour. 
At 52 the youngest member of the foursome, three years younger than Nicklaus and Lee Trevino and 13 years younger than Palmer, Floyd dominated the event over the Mauna Lani Resort course by winning 14 skins. 
Nicklaus won the other four skins and $120,000, including $40,000 by sinking a putt for an eagle-3 at the final hole. He won two holes, including a prize money carryover at No. 7, the first day. 
Palmer, who had won two of the past three Senior Skins, could not make the money putts this time, including his birdie try at No. 17. Trevino, coming back from November neck surgery, was not at full strength and had to compen­sate with lower club selections to make up for his lack of dis­tance . 
The golfers grew more seri­ous and intense while con­siderably more serious money piled up as the first seven holes Sunday were tied. The pressure showed on the greens. 
Floyd missed a 20-foot birdie try at No. 11, with $60,000 at stake. He missed a 10-foot try at No. 14, with $170,00 up for grabs. Then at No. 16, he could not make an 8-foot birdie putt that would have won him $250,000. 
He made up for all that on the next hole. Trevino was away and left his 24-footer short at No. 17. 
Nicklaus rolled his ball dead on line, but it stopped 4 inches short of the hole. Palmer, set­ting up over his putt once, then stopping and backing off to set up again, hit his putt off-line to the right. 
Floyd, meanwhile, played a little break to the right, rolled the ball at precisely the proper pace and it dropped into the center of the hole. 
Floyd and Trevino had halved No. 10 with birdies Sunday, Nicklaus and Palmer birdied No. 13, and the other holes leading to the drama at No. 17 all were tied with pars. 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Signing freeze on agenda when talks resume 
By RONALD BLUM tion of negotiations with own­owners implemented their "I don't know what's going to McDowell, Kenny Rogers and Associated Press ers. salary cap plan Dec. 23. happen," said Eugene Orza, the John Wetteland. Boras repre­Mediator W.J. Usery has Some agents, most notably union's No. 2 official. "I don't sents Avery, Benes, Fernandez 
NEW YORK called for talks to resume Scott Boras, want the freeze to believe there is an overwhelm­and Rogers. 
Baseball players will start Wednesday. On Tuesday, the end. The agents who represent ing majority one way or the arriving in Washington on union's board will discuss the most players, Jim Bronner other. All the pros and cons of Hill and outfielder Marquis Monday for a meeting of the whether to continue the signing and Bob Gilhooley, and Randy continuing it and ending it are Grissom are thought to have union's executive board that freeze. No player has signed a and Alan Hendricks, want it to going to be discussed." agreed orally to deals with the will be followed by the resump-major league contract since continue. Florida Marlins, Hill for $25 
Spring Break Setninars 
March 12-18, 1995 Experiential/Service Learning 
Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACf.ITASEN.nNAR 
Service Learning at one of ten sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology 

MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR 
Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants One credit Theology 
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR Examine recycling, solid waste centers directly Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns One credit, Chicago-based seminar 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Our Violent Society 

Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government 


Applications Available Now at the CSC 
Application Deadline Extended for all Seminars until Thursday, February 2, 1995, 10:00 p.m. 
Union leader Donald Fehr million over five years and hasn't given his opinion pub­Grissom for $27.5 million over licly, but he is said to think that five years. continuing the freeze will help If they can't sign by Feb. 6­the union's case in Congress which coincidentally is the and the courts. A complete deadline President Clinton has rejection of the system by play­set for progress -owners say ers prevents clubs from form­they can't switch teams under ing the rosters they intend to their new system. use once the strike ends and keeps all the striking players A player's current club could united under the same rules. then make what's called a 
The 38 restricted free agents "final tender," offering at least initially would be hurt most if a 10 percent raise over what the freeze continues. In order his 1994 earnings would have to switch teams, they must sign been without a strike. If the offer sheets by Feb. 6, allowing club did that, the player would 10 days for their current clubs be considered signed for 1995. to match the offers by the Feb. But the union says the strike 15 deadline. won't end until players get an 
The restricted free agents "appropriate" deal. If that's the include pitchers Steve Avery, case, whatever new system is Andy Benes, Alex Fernandez, agreed to will have other rules Ken Hill, Ramon Martinez, Jack and different deadlines . 
• 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
232-8256 
Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
--: • NHl RmmouP 
Penguins stay perfect, Flyers earn draw 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 

LANDOVER, Md. 
It appears as if the Pittsburgh Penguins have adjusted quite nicely to life without Mario Lemieux. 
Jaromir Jagr extended his goal-scoring streak to five games, and had two assists Sunday as the Penguins kept their perfect record intact by beating the Washington Capitals 4-1. 
Kevin Stevens, Jagr and Ron Francis scored in the opening 
7:44 to propel the Penguins to their fifth straight win, includ­ing four on the road. Pittsburgh and Quebec are the only remaining unbeaten teams in the NHL. 
Lemieux decided in August to take a medical leave of absence and sit out the entire season. While it seemed certain that the Penguins would surely miss his offensive prowess, such has not been the case -not yet, any­way. 
"The guys who were expect­ed to score have been doing the scoring for us," coach Ed Johnston said. "The guys we've got have blended in very well 
HURRY! 
SPACE IS UMITED! 

Illern::t.dlsroi.nlbl:> 8Ift""" ~lmfontnd7 rt;t/Did ~bised(I!Q.aj~. i'&w:sftncltwded. 
Council Travel 
1153 N. Dearbom, 2nd Floor 
Chicago, ll60610 

31g•951•0585 
Call for availability, prices, and other Spring Break destinations. 
J agr has five goals and a team-best nine points for the league's most prolific offense (23 goals). The 22-year-old for­ward has scored in 14 straight games dating back to last sea­son. 
He has not carried the weight 
alone. Stevens has four goals, 
while Francis and John Cullen 
have points in every game. 

The Penguins have endured 
stretches without Lemieux 
before, but this time is different 
because they know he won't be 
back to work his magic. 

"It's a great opportunity for 
the forwards," said de­
fenseman Larry Murphy. 
"They've played well in the 
past, but we've always been 
looking for Mario to come 
through the door. Now they 
know they're going to get ice 
time if they play well because 
we aren't going to see Mario 
this year." _ 
Pittsburgh also had to deaC 
with the absence goaltender 
Tom Barrasso, who underwent 
surgery on his right wrist on 
Jan. 20. He hasn't been missed, 
either, because Ken Wregget 
improved to 5-0 by stopping 30 
shots Sunday. 

"We understand what Mario 
and Tom mean to the team and 
8-20/30
MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 

1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
tOUmgo Hair Cutting (A~ 5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
'·--·1 
2n-7946 

HOURS: i 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. 11-5 
what we have to do to fill the void," Jagr said. 
The only shot that eluded Wregget was a power-play goal by rookie Jason Allison with 
9:01 remaining. 
''I'm not putting any extra pressure on myself," Wregget said. "I know what I can do and I know what the guys can do." 
The Capitals' power play went 1-for-8, failing twice in a 5-on-3 situation, and is just 4­for-35 this season. Washington played the final two periods without leading scorer Joe Juneau, who aggravated a hip flexor. 
"We were very erratic," coach Jim Schoenfeld said. "More than that, we made some mental mistakes that cost us and had some guys who didn't show up to play. When that happens, there's no way we can win." 
Capitals defenseman Sylvain Cote said Washington probably didn't expect the Penguins to be so good without Lemieux. 

"I don't think we took Pittsburgh's offense seriously," he said. "I thought we weren't as aggressive as we should have been." 
Pittsburgh scored on its first shot against Washington goal­tender Olaf Kolzig. Cullen threaded a pass between two defenders at the blue line to the streaking Stevens, who turned the breakaway into his fourth goal at 2:20. 
Jagr then converted a 5-on-3, scoring on the rebound of a blast by Murphy at 4:06. Francis made it three goals in four Pittsburgh shots when he beat Kolzig from the right cir­cle. 
"Down 3-0 that quickly, it's tough mentally to come back from that," Kolzig said. 
It became 4-0 at 5:20 of the second period when J agr sent a centering pass to Luc Robitaille, who deked Kolzig before scor­ing on the glove-side. 
Flyers 2, Canadiens 2 

MONTREAL 
Ron Hextall made 30 saves ­including six in overtime -and Rob DiMaio's goal early in the third period enabled the Philadelphia Flyers to tie the Montreal Canadiens 2-2 Sunday. 
DiMaio, replacing flu-sticken centere Eric Lindros, tipped Mikael Renberg's pass over goaltender Patrick Roy's shoul­der to tie the game with 17:55 remaining. 
Dimitri Yushkevich also scored for Philadelphia. 
Mike Keane and Brian Savage scored 41 seconds apart late in the second period for Montreal. 
The Canadiens outshot the Flyers 32-15, including 6-0 in overtime, but Hextall was solid in goal. 
The Canadiens were two men short when Yushkevich drilled a point shot off defenseman Eric Desjardins and past Roy at 
11:17 of the middle period. 


Andrew Sullivan Editor: The New Republic 
THE GAY CATHOLIC pARADOX 
Thursday, February 2 7:30PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium Free Admission 

A talk on Theology and Homosexuality 
This event has lleen sponsored hy : 
Graduate Student Union  •  The Student Union Board  
Department of Theology  The Counseling Center  
Gender Studies Program  Department of Sociology  
Graduate Theological Union  ........,....,.....,  American Studies Dept.  

Department of Government and International Studies 


Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Candlemas 
Feast of the Presentation of the Lord 
H.U.G.S. 
Meeting 
Wednesday, Feb. 1st 8-9 p.m. in the C.S.C. 
• 
Bring the date of MMR shot and Chicken Pox Vaccination 

• 
TB test will be required 

• 
Returning members sign up for spring semester schedule on TuesdayJan. 31st; 5-9:30 p.m. at 


C.S.C. 

Thursday, February 2,1995 5:00p.m. Mass 

The congregation is invited to bring candles from their homes to the church, where they will be blessed 
-(?MPUS 

for the new year. The blessing ofcandles and procession will begin 
t\/11NI5TRY 

at the Lady ChapeL 
·--------------------,.~--------------~--­
Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

Suffocating defense shuts down Suns 
By WENDY E. lANE 
Associatt-d Press 
NEW YORK 

Patrick Ewing had 35 points' and 15 rebounds as the New York Knicks used their physical defense to shut down the league's highest-scoring of­fense. beating the Phoenix Suns 107-88 Sunday. 
Phoenix's total was a season low, as the Suns saw a seven­game winning streak snapped. New York also ended the Suns' team record road streak at nine victories. 
It also was the Suns' first loss in 10 games against an Atlantic Conferenee team. 
After getting outscored 17-5 to end the first half, Phoenix continued to sputter in the third period as the Knicks went on a 19-8 run. By the time the spree ended. New York had a 69-50 lead. Ewing had eight points during the spurt and 12 points in the quarter. 
1803 S1)uth Bend Ave. Campus Shoppes Plaza 
277-2974 

John Starks added 22 points for the Knicks. Anthony Mason had 19 rebounds for the Knicks, who dominated the boards 61-36. 
The victory avenged a 21­point loss Dec. 16 at Phoenix and New York bounced back from a 15-point setback at Charlotte Friday. 
Danny Ainge's 22 points paced Phoenix, and Charles Barkley had 20 and nine rebounds, but only two points in the second half. 
Rattled by the Knicks' defense, the Suns couldn't hit from inside or outside and trailed 79-58 going into the fourth quarter. They missed layups and jams, shot airballs from 3-point range. 
The closest Phoenix got dur­ing fourth quarter was 11 points, after Elliot Perry and Dan Majerle hit consecutive 3­pointers and Ainge sank two free throws. 
• Not valid with any other offer. New customers only.
··-· ··-·· 
w_•m•• 

Bulls, Pippen rout War:riors 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Scottie Pippen returned from a one-game suspension to score 27 points, and B.J Armstrong had 16 in the first quarter Sunday as the Chicago Bulls started quickly and routed the Golden State Warriors 116-94. 
Pippen was suspended and fined for throwing a chair across the United Center floor last week after he'd been eject­ed from a game against San Antonio. 
But Sunday he was in com­plete control against the out-manned Warriors. He didn't bicker, he just played, making 9-of-13 shots, collecting 11 re­bounds and handing out eight assists. 

Armstrong hit his first five shots and 6-of-7 in the opening quarter as the Bulls bolted to a 35-13 lead after one period. Armstrong finished the game with 19 points. 
Golden State, losing for the 12th time in 14 games, played without Chris Mullin, Rony Seikaly and Ricky Pierce, all out with injuries. 
Tim Hardaway led the Warriors with 18 points and Latrell Sprewell, bothered by a sprained right foot, had 13. 
The Bulls built the lead to 69­39 at the half. Pippen scored 11 of his 19 first-half points in the second quarter and finished the half with nine rebounds and seven assists. 
Chicago, which has still won only three of its last nine games, shot 53 percent in the opening half to only 32 percent for the Warriors. 
The lead ballooned to 102-65 with one quarter to play. The Bulls led by as many as 39 points. Pippen was removed from the game with 2:48 to play in the third and didn't return. 
Chargers lose down the middle 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

San Francisco beat San Diego every which way, and down the middle most of all. 
Twice in the first five minutes of Sunday's Super Bowl, quar­terback Steve Young chose the most direct route to the end zone, splitting the Chargers' defense with a pair of touch­down passes for a quick 14-0 lead. 
After that, everything seemed to work for the unstoppable 49ers, who won 49-26 for their fifth Super Bo.wl title since 1982. 
Young threw a Super Bowl record six touchdown passes, 
Will your company grow as fast as you do? 
Almost every company's recruiting ad promises you rapid growth. But before making any decisions, ask them how fast they're growing. After all, you're going to have trouble moving up if your company isn't. 
Over the last five years. while economic conditions have stalled many organiza· 
tions, Andersen Consulting grew on the average of  
20% per year.  ANDERSEN  
Compare that figure to any other firm you're con· sidering. It could be the difference between getting  CONSULTING  
ahead. And banging your head.  ARTillJRANDERSEN & CO.. S.C.  

Andersen Consulting will be conducting both full time and summer intern interviews on February 6. Please see Career and Placement Services for details. 
and the first two were the longest, covering 44 yards to Jerry Rice and 51 yards to Ricky Watters. On both plays, San Francisco beat safeties Darren Carrington and Stanley Richard, whose futility symbol­ized what the Chargers were up against. 
All week long, Young had publicly preached the need to remain patient against a sec­ondary that plays soft coverage. But when the game began, Young turned greedy. 
The bomb to a wide-open Rice came first, just three plays and 84 seconds into the game. Football's best receiver cut over the middle on first down, sim­ply ran between the two safeties, caught a perfect throw from Young at the 10-yard line and cruised across the goal line. 
Once divided, the Chargers' defense fell. The two early scores were the longest plays of the first half for a 49ers offense that had 304 yards and 28 points by halftime. Rice and Watters each finished with three touchdowns. 

GRAND OPENING 

Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
• SUPER BOWl 

Young shines as 49ers win fifth Bowl 
By DAVE GOLDBERG  and Ricky Watters caught two  pass but that passing game is  return for a score with 3:01 left  one of the few plays involving  
Associated Press ·  more and ran 9 yards for a  one in 1 ,000."  in the third period after Young  Sanders in the half, a pass  
third score.  "They're the best I've ever  connected with Rice for a 15­ interference against Shawn  
MIAMI  "This is something you'll  seen," said San Diego coach  yard TD.  Jefferson on the goal line.  
Steve  Young  hugged  the  never forget," Rice told Young  Bobby Ross.  Then  the  Chargers  set  a  In your face, said Young and  
Super Bowl trophy as if it was  as the quarterback cradled the  And the three TDs each by  record of their own when Stan  the new, trash-talking Niners.  
the most precious thing in the  Vince Lombardi Trophy after  Rice and Watters were another  Humphries threw to Mark Seay  They simply went down the  
world to him.  the game.  reminder  - the only other  for a two-point conversion, the  field -a little more slowly this  
It is.  Young agreed.  players to score three touch­ first ever in the Super Bowl in  time -and scored again. This  
Young obliterated the shadow  "You can't describe the feel­ downs in a Super Bowl were  this first season the NFL has  one started with an 18-yarder  
of Joe Montana that had haunt­ ing. That's why football is the  both 49ers -Rice in 1990 and  gone to the two-pointer.  to Rice and featured only one  
ed him for five years with a  ultimate team game," he said.  Roger Craig in 1985.  San Francisco wanted to send  third-down play, a sneak by  
record six touchdown passes as  "When you get there, you share  Rice, who twice received  a message to San Diego and it  Young that put the ball on the  
the San Francisco 49ers over­ it with 50 other guys. It's geo­ intravenous fluids before the  sent that message quickly.  5.  
whelmed  San  Diego  49-26  metric - 50 times 50 - the  game for flu-like symptoms and  A sellout  crowd  that  sat  On the next play, Floyd snuck  
Sunday to become the first  elation you feel."  then played most of the game  through  a  numbing Disney  through the middle, Young hit  
team ever to win five Super  Young, the unanimous MVP,  with a slightly separated shoul­ laser and light pregame show  him in the end zone and it was  
Bowls.  finished  24-for-36 for  325  der, caught 10 passes for 149  barely had time to adjust to  21-7 just 1:58 into the second  
Then he finally released the  yards without an interception.  yards, and administered the  football when the Niners had r  quarter.  
emotion that he's bottled up all  He also was the game's leading  quick shock ­ splitting the San  two touchdowns in the first  The Chargers went nowhere  
this time.  rusher with 49 yards on five  Diego secondary for the first TD  4:55.  on their next possession and so  
"All along I felt like I was  carries before leaving with 5:39  just 1:24 into the game. He also  Those two took all of seven  did the Niners, probably be­ 
playing well but I never had  left.  caught second-half TD passes  plays -a 4-yard run 1ly Floyd  cause Rice was in the locker  
this game to fall back on," said  That overshadowed all kinds  of 15 and 7 yards.  and  an  11-yard pass from  room getting a sprained shoul­ 
Young, a two-time league MVP,  of achievements, including the  "Jerry Rice with one arm is  Young put  the  ball  at  the  der treated.  
but labled a ''loser" because  record-tying  three  TDs  by  better than anyone else with  Chargers'  44. Then  Young  But he returned on the next  
the Niners fell a game short the  Young and Watters, and the  two arms," Young said.  found Rice deep over the mid- series  after  one  of  the  
last two years when they lost to  record set by linebacker Ken  But it was the quick TD that  die between Darren Carrington  Chargers' silly mistakes - a  
Dallas in the NFC title game.  Norton, who after winning two  probably  squelched  any  and Stanley Richard for the  roughness call on rookie Isaac  
"Steve Young proved that he  titles with Dallas signed with  thoughts the Chargers, 18-point  fastest touchdown in Super  Davis-set them back to the 9.  
is truly the greatest quarter­ the 49ers as a free agent, and  underdogs, might have had of  Bowl history. That broke the  Then Adam Walker deflected  
back of all time," said Deion  became the first player ever to  an upset.  record of 1:57 set by Denver on  Bryan Wagner's punt, the 49ers  
Sanders, who brought to the  play on three straight Super  "We've scored quick like that  a TD pass by John Elway seven  got the ball at the San Diego 49  
Niners the in-your-face attitude  Bowl winners.  all year," Young said. "That's  years ago.  and they methodically marched  
and finally got the Super ring  It took exactly 4 minutes and  one of our strong points."  San Francisco's TD also set  to the end zone, the touchdown  
he sought.  55 s.econds for San Francisco to  Like most teams in their first  three more records for the  coming on an 8-yard pass in  
If ever a Super Bowl lived up  demoralize the Chargers, play­ Super Bowl, they clearly had  record-heavy  Rice  - most  the flat to Watters. It was one  
to its billing, this one did. It was  ing in the Super Bowl for the  the jitters.  touchdowns, most points and  of the 49ers' favorite plays, one  
supposed to be a rout and it  first time. Touchdown passes  They dropped passes, took  most receiving yards lifetime in  perfected by  Montana  and  
I ,  was, as an NFC team won for the 11th straight year. San  by Young of 44 yards to Rice and 51 yards to Watters did the  silly penalties, missed tackles and generally did what most  the Super Bowl.  Roger Craig, and the Chargers misplayed it -covering  
Francisco was favored by 18  trick.  AFC teams have done over the  The Chargers went three and  Watters with a linebacker,  
points and could have won by  But more important to Young,  past 11 years -lose big. Only  out, and this time it took San  David Griggs.  
3 5 if it hadn't relaxed after  it was a smashing certification  two of the 11 straight NFC wins  Francisco four plays and 1:45  Then came another series  
going up 35-10 early in the  in his exorcism of Montana's  have been close. The average  to score. The third play of the  that demonstrated the differ­ 
third quarter.  ghost. More important to the  margin in the first 10 was 38­ drive was a 21-yard scramble  ence between the teams.  
"We knew we were gonna  49ers, it completed their single­ 15. Coincidentally, that was the  by Young, the fourth a 51-yard  San Diego moved smartly,  
kick their butts but we couldn't  minded mission of winning the  score by which the 49ers beat  pass to Watters-also over the  Humphries finding Mark Seay  
say nothing," Sanders said.  Super Bowl after losing the  the Chargers on Dec. 11 in a  middle ­ who broke tackles by  for 17 yards and Eric Bienemy  
"They never had a chance to  NFC title game three of the last  regular-season" game in San  Carrington and Richard for the  for 33  more to put the ball on  
beat us.  The real Super Bowl  four years.  Diego.  touchdown. Then San Diego did  the 13. But they scored touch­ 
was last week against Dallas."  Young demonstrated his ela­ "I don't know whether we  what it was wanted to do, but  downs only 43 percent of the  
But Sanders wasn't the show.  tion after his fifth TD, a 15­ were awestruck or what," Ross  14 points too late.  time they got inside the 20 this  
Young was.  yarder to Rice. He celebrated  said.  The Chargers kept the San  year and this was another fail­ 
"He's awesome.  He's one of  lying on the ground with his  The  highlight  for  the  Francisco offense off the field  ure  - three straight incom­ 
the legends," said San Diego  arms signaling touchdown, as  Chargers came when they were  for 7:21 while going 78 yards in  plete passes and John Carney's  
linebacker Junior Seau.  Rice trotted into the end zone.  down  42-10  Andre  13 plays for Natrone Means' 1­ 31-yard field goal that made it  
His six TD passes broke the  But those two were only part  Coleman's  98-yard  kickoff  yard TD run. It was set up by  28-10.  
Super Bowl record of five set  of what may be the best offense  
five years ago by Montana, who  ever.  
led San Francisco to its first  "That's  the  best  offense  
four titles. Jerry Rice, playing with the flu and a shoulder sep­ you're probably ever gonna see," Seau said. "They give you  Welcome Back to the Interfaith  
aration, caught three of them  a lot of mixtures of run and  Campus Bible Study  


Old Members and New Ones
G .·ME·. D-n-nAT.T'
IVE . . . A .un.c.t\1\.. 
Meeting
SPRING BREAK 
When: Tuesday, January 31, 7:00p.m. 
Hang out in: Where: Conference Room I Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office 
oCAIICIIN O$OUTII ,,,,E II&AIII 
What: Discussion on Matthew Ch. 15 -16. 
oBAIIAIIAI 
Fr. Al D'Alonzo, Director 
ofr. ·~ERI 
For more information, call 
631-5242
Call New Horizons Travel "Your Party Planners" 
Let Us Ponder the Message 
~­

of the Lord 0MPU5 51529 Bittersweet Rd., Granger, IN 
(800)639,4674 or (219)273,4934 
MINISTRY 

Cull our 24 hour hotline for the latest speduls: (219)27i-9749 

~---~ ~----~~---------------------­
Monday, January 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Skid 
continued from page 20
All-around effort destroys UWM 
mountable 3-0 advantage. 


Senior captain reaches 1OOOth point plateau 
By K.C. GOYER Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team had a roll call scoring effort Friday night as every player contributed to the 98-50 win over the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
First on the list was senior co-captain Letitia Bowen. The game started at 7:00 pm Friday night with Coach McGraw pre­senting Bowen with the game ball with which she became Notre Dame's all time leading rebounder. 
Four minutes later, The whis­tle blew for the jump ball to start the game. and Bowen was just 5 points shy of the 1000 point milestone in her career. By 7:06 pm, she was the 10th player in the history of Notre Dame women's basketball to accumulate 4 digits. 
Bowen hit two free throws immediately after the tip. The next trip down the floor, Bowen characteristically ripped an offensive board out of the air and powered through traffic for the put back bucket with the foul. From the free throw line, she completed the three point play and made her 1000th point. 
r--------------------------------------, 
HOW TO HANG ON TO YOUR DOUGH. 
(WITHOUT CRAMPING YOUR STYLE)  
fl:n  Separate "needs" from "wants." Hint: A bed is a need. A Mr. Microphone is a want.  
fl:n  Split the bill but only pay your share. Why put in for someone else's swordfish if all you got was soup?  r  
fl:n  Set aside money for emergencies. Unless you'd rather call your parents for it instead.  
f/:JJ  Keep your eye on your wallet. Have a Citibank Classic card in case you lose it. The Lost WalletsM Service can get you emergency cash7 a new card, usually within 24 hours, and help replacing vital documents.  
''Based on available cash line.  

Following an FSU goal, Bruininks contributed his sec­ond score of the evening, and Lorenz added a goal with just nine seconds remaining to wrap up Notre Dame's finest period of the season. 
There were still 40 minutes to play, but with the Irish lead­ing 5-l and with the momen­tum on their side, the Bulldogs went out with a whimper. Notre Dame kept up the inten­sity throughout the game, and a demoralized, frustrated Ferris State squad could man­age just one goal the rest of the way. 
Sophomore right wing Tim Harberts scored his team lead­ing 16th goal of the se'ason off assists from Ling and junior left wing Chris Bales. Lorenz added his second goal and third point of the night with 
10:40 remaining to put the exclamation point on the 7-2 Irish victory. 
After such a strong effort by the Irish offense, it is easy to overlook an equally impressive performance by the defensive unit. FSU was able to convert on just one of their nine power play opportunities, and fresh­man goaltender Matt Eisler, who seems to improve with ev­ery game, recorded 44 saves on the evening. 
"It was nice to see the guys finally rewarded for their ef­forts," said head coach Ric Schafer following the game. 
Maybe there is a light at the end of the tunnel. 
"Letitia did a great job rebounding," Coach McGraw said, "And she went out there and scored her 1000. There was no suspense." 
Bowen finished the night with 14 points, including 6-7 from the foul line, 3 steals, and 6 rebounds. 
Fellow co-captain Carey Poor put her name on the ball every time it went up as she grabbed a game high 11 rebounds. Poor also contributed 7 points. 
Wisconsin Milwaukee never got a chance as the Irish went on a 9-0 run early to set up a comfortable 18-5 lead. Notre Dame outscored the Panthers 49-25 both halves of the game. 
The Irish full court press was their deadly weapon as they stole the ball 23 times in com­parison to their opponent's 4. 
"We wanted to key on the transition game," McGraw said, 
"  This was a chance for  us to  
run it."  
Katryna  Gaither,  a  6'3"  

sophomore, owned the key on defense rejecting 4 shots and picking off the high lob 4 times as well. Gaither was also 3-3 from the foul line and finished the game with 16 points. 
Post players had a fine show­ing in the game as Rosanne Bohman came off the bench to score 10 points and Kelly Heath had an even effort with 4 points. 2 assists, and 2 steals. 
Beth Morgan, a 6'0" guard from Bloomington, IN, was the leading scorer of the night with 18 points. Morgan has scored 

double digits in 17 of the last throw line. 18 games. "[The team] did a great job of 
Mollie Peirick kept her accu­making sure everybody racy streak alive, hitting 4 of 5 scored," Coach McGraw said, shots and 1-1 from the free "It was a good team effort." 
... 
= 
page 18 
Irish 
continued from page 20 

"The key to winning is experi­enced guards," O'Brien said. "Right now, we're deficient in that area." 
Notre Dame's guards have grown up. Led by Justice's ball­hawking defense, the Irish forced 18 Eagle miscues and committed just seven. The Irish scored 18 points off turnovers, while Boston College managed just four. 
"They're short that point guard," Notre Dame coach John MacLeod said. "I'd like to think our defense was responsi­ble for some of their problems. In the first half, we were partic­ularly aggressive." 
Notre Dame got 16 of those 18 points off turnovers in the first half, leading by as much as 11 before Boston College cut the lead to seven at halftime. 
The margin hovered between five and nine for almost the entire second half, with Hoover hindering any Eagles' charge. Twice he hit 3-pointers to deflate second-half rallies. 
"It felt like we were taking an awful lot of threes," said Hoover, who finished 6-for-15 from behind the arc, "but you have to in a game like this." 
Boston College was mixing zone defenses, trying to neu­tralize Notre Dame's leading scorer Pat Garrity. That plan 
•
Intensf _, 
.&& 
The Observer • SPORTS 


worked, holding Garrity to just five points, but it opened up the outside for Hoover. 
"We won when our leading scorer shot just 1-for-7, so we were able to pick up the slack in other areas," MacLeod said. "They gave us a lot of different looks (defensively). We had the chance to cave in but we didn't." 
WHAT NEXT?: After success­ful laser surgery to correct a 
VARSITY SHOP
...., 

CfLfjBJ.jJ.f
. ' 
tdl1t 

heart abnormality, junior guard His heart condition, known as Keith Kurowski is now fighting Wo Iff-Park ins on-White the flu and strep throat. Syndrome, was discovered about two weeks ago and he MacLeod was uncertain when underwent surgery last Kurowski would return to the Tuesday. He was expected to team. rejoin the team only a week to 
He missed his entire fresh­10 days after the operation, but man season with a stress frac­the illness will sideline him a ture in his foot and then sat out little longer. the first few games of his "He's having a heck of a sophomore year recovering time," MacLeod said. "He needs from knee surgery. a break." 

Weekend provides pair of wins 
By ANGELA OLSEN team's depth as a big factor in Sports Wrirer the Belles 132-102 victory. Last year the University of 
Despite having to compete in Chicago defeated Saint Mary's two dual meets and a double by two points."The difference dual in one weekend, the Saint between this year and last," Mary's swim team managed to said Janson, "was our come away with a pair of wins. improved depth and a few 
more quality swimmers." 
The Belles kicked off their Saturday morning the Belles weekend with a win on Friday traveled to Kalamazoo College night against the University of for a dual meet. The Belles Chicago. Saint Mary's coach were soundly defeated by the 
-Greg Janson pointed to the his talented Kalamazoo team. 
The Belles arrived back at Saint Mary's with an hour to spare before returning to Rolfs Aquatic Center to host a double dual against IBC and DePaul. 
The Belles were defeated 136-91 by DePauw, but beat IBC. "We were tired but people were still able to pull out some good times," said Janson, "(Freshman) Courtney Merriss and Uunior) Natalie Cheeseman swam well the entire week­end." 
Wo1111atioa Scuioa ilthe Clwroom ofthe Ceaterfor So.ial Coneeru 
Wins. 
%Off. 

The Notre Dame women's basketball team, still unbeaten in the conference, won its 1Oth game of the season on Saturday. Celebrate that with 10 percent off at the Varsity Shop with this coupon and your valid ND or SMC student ID. 
Sale and special merchandise excluded. Offer expires 2/15/95. 
Monday, January 30, 1995 
Big East 
continued from page 20 

East)," said Danya Abrams, the Eagles high man with 26. "They have a few big men who can score, a nice offense, and they are scrappy. Really, what more can you ask for." 
Granted, this game may not be the best measuring stick for future successes as it was a home contest against a club that is winless in eight league match-ups. 
On the other hand, the Eagles, over the past few years, have been a upper tier team in the league that has re­cruited very well and have a bit more respect in the country after last season NCAA run. They look to be a team that will be a factor in upcoming Big East races. 
The Irish are hoping to be right there with them. 
''I'm looking forward to next season," junior guard Ryan Hoover said. "It makes no sense to play against cupcakes. I want to play against the top teams. That is how you im­prove." 
Notre Dame can definitely improve upon Saturday's effort, but at least they started their climb up the Big East lad­der on the right foot -and the right side of the scoreboard. 
Are you interested in a position on the Notre Dame campus this summer (June 26 to August 5) as a Youth Coordinator for tlie NCAA National Youth Sports Program? The position provides room and board on campus, three hours of academic credit, and a tuition stipend of $1200. Each coordinator will be in charge of a group of twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in our local community. These 10 positions are part of Notre Dame's overall Summer Service Program. Call Sue Cunningham at 1-7867 . 
The Observer • TODAY MIKE PETERS 
Monday, January 30, 1995 MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
BILL WATTERSON 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 
0 

.!."' THAT'5 A THOUGHT 
I 
TECHNICALLY, I ONLY A5KED 
WHY NOT 


\ 


WHY DON'T YOU J"U5T 
DELETE FlLE5 TO 
LCLJER THE WEIGHT ON THAT ONE? 
\ 

WE IGH5 TOO MUCH. DO 
WE HAVE ANYTHING 
LIGHTER? 




"For 25 bucks I'll shovel a path to your snow blower." 

... 
•· 
.. 
,_ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Came up 
6 Good farm soil 10 Son of Seth 141981 John 
Lennon hit 15 Formerly 16 Songbird 17 "Blithe Spirit" 
playwright 19 Wearing-out 
point for pants 20 Creek 21 Tidy 23 Vintage 24 Fr. ladies 26 Toboggans 28 Fondle 31 "Not guilty," 
e.g. 
You Juat aeparated )<OUr traah. 
....,... .,.... 
.. _...,., ....-.... -· ... 
...... ............
... __

,.._......... ........... --rocydoa
__.._-· cuM MillY
....-..,._
c--. ...... !Sll'lltlft.­.... 
IY, IY, 10010. 
·-...... RECYCLE -·­

ll'1 "' currier ••r lc acre "' worll. 

33 Stow in a ship's hold 36 --bomb 38 Miss Cinders of early comics 40 Spy work, for short 
41 Songs sung from house to house 
44 Succinct 45 Looped handle 46 Within: Prefix 47 Kind of hammer 49 Texas pioneer 
Houston et al. 51 --es Salaam 52 Midnights' 
counterparts 54 "Alice" diner 56 Pussy 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
58 Tie fabric 60 Lariats 64 Sills solo 66 Seasonal 
worker 68 Bridge feat 69 Heinz number, 
to Ovid? 10 Happening 71 "0-Night" 72Town near 
Padua 73 Schmoes 
DOWN 
1 Bristles 2 Cheer (for) 3 Hebrew dry 
measure 4 City of witch 
hunts 5 Pitch tents 6 Temperature 
extreme 7-evenkeel a Lots of lots 
9 Military awards 10 Antlered animal 11 Not much time 
12 Pitcher Hershiser 13 Calendar aIa Variety 18 Eggs-and­cheese dish 22 Aquarium fish 25 1965 march site 
brand 28 Agreements 


29 Miss Barrymore 
30 Like a . downpour 32 Astronaut Shepard et al. 
34 Upper-­(now Burkina Faso) 
35 TV newsman David 
37 Err 
39 State of India 
42 Lilies 43 Minolta, e.g. 57 Singer Guthrie 4&lsolate 59 Make stockings 5o Cut 61 Far East weight 53 Serbs and 62 Polly, to Tom 

Croats 63 Fast planes 55 Round of 651948song 
cheers "Once in Love 56 Neither check With-" 
nor charge 67 Come out even 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 




~ 

SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, January 30, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Eagles get a taste of new east 
Turnovers, experience give rival BC a look at soon-to-be conference foe 
By JASON KELLY Associate Spores Ediror 

One of Notre Dame's new neighbors visited Saturday bearing gifts. 
Boston College welcomed the Irish to the Big East early, offering 18 turnovers as a house­warming present that Notre Dame translated into a 74-68 win. 
It won't always be that easy. Boston College represents the bottom of the Big East, but for this year at least, Notre Dame can brag about a per­fect record against conference competition. 
"They're seemingly more ready to play in this league than we are," Boston College coach Jim O'Brien joked, "and we've been in it since it start­ed." 
As for the more immediate concerns, the Irish improved to 12-7 behind 20 points from Ryan Hoover and a season-high 17 from Billy Taylor. 
But the biggest basket belonged to Lamarr Justice, who rolled in a leaner as the shot clock expired with 1:27 left, giving Notre Dame a 69-63 lead. 
Without that bucket, Boston College could have trimmed the lead to two after trailing by nine just four minutes earlier. 
"We put ourselves in a position to win, but we were never able to come up with the big basket or the big stop," O'Brien said. 
·• 
Turnovers told a big part of the story, as they often do in games involving Notre Dame. This time, though, it was the opponent consistently coughing up the ball. 
Without touted freshman point guard Chris Herren, who injured his wrist early this season, the Boston College backcourt resembles, well, some Irish teams of the recent past. 
see IRISH I page 18 


• HOCKEY 

Losing skid halted 
Irish perfect in Big East ... for this year 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Spores Ediror 
With Saturday's 74-68 victory over Boston 
College, Notre Dame finished its Big East regu­
lar season with an undefeated record. 
1-0. 
Odds are, next season's slate will be a bit 
more difficult. Still, Saturday wasn't a bad 
start. 
"This win was a major step for us going into 
the conference," Irish coach John MacLeod 
appraised. 
But the Irish know they have a pretty big staircase to climb to get to where they want to · be. Eagles' coach Jim O'Brien feels the same 
way about his future rival. 
"Seemingly, right now, they would be more 
competitive in the league," O'Brien said. "But 
they need to get better players. Recruiting is 
the name of the game and they need more 
guys who can play at this level." 
O'Brien practices what he preaches, as his 
current crop of freshman was a consensus top 
ten recruiting class according to those who 
profess to know such things. However, he un­
derselling the Irish. 
The Notre Dame class of 1998 thus far has 
been just as impressive as B.C.'s. Although 
the trio of Pat Garrity, Derek Manner, and 
Brian Watkins had their troubles during 
Saturday's win, they have been a pleasant sur­
prise. Along with a handful of other young­
sters such as Marcus "the mason of the charity 
stripe" Young, they have shown that they can 
compete next season in the Big East, tradition­
ally, one of the nation's strongest conferences. 
"They will match up pretty well (in the Big 
see BIG EAST I page 18 
By MICHAEL DAY Spores Writer 

There just might be a light at the end of the tunnel for the Notre Dame hock­ey team after all. And it's possible that one may not even need an electron microscope to see it. 
Indeed, things finally fell into place for the Irish on Saturday night, as they thoroughly dominated Ferris State on their way to snapping a five game los­ing streak with a 7-2 victory. 
Junior Brett Bruininks and sopho­more Terry Lorenz led the way with two goals apiece, but lt was a complete team effort that got the job done before 2257 fans at Ewigleben Ice Arena in Big Rapids, Michigan. 
"We definitely came out ready to play," said Lorenz. "We were due to have a big game, and fortunately, everybody played well from start to fin­ish." 
After falling behind early in a 6-3 loss to Lake Superior State on Friday, Notre Dame was determined to jump out to a quick start against the Bulldogs. And that's exactly what they did. 
Just 34 seconds into the game, the Irish took advantage of some sloppy FSU play at the defensive end to go up 1-0. Lorenz found freshman Lyle Andrusiak wide open on the right side, and Andrusiak subsequently slid the puck past Bulldog goaltender Rich Nagy for his seventh goal of the year. 
Andrusiak's goal set the tone for Notre Dame. With 16:35 remaining in the first period, the Irish struck again, as Bruininks sent Nagy to the showers with his eighth goal of the season to put the Irish up 2-0. 
New goaltender, same result. Freshman Jeff Blashill replaced Nagy only to be greeted by junior ceflter Jamie Ling's tenth goal and 34th point of the year. Defenseman Garry Grubber and left wing Jamie Moreshead were credited with assists on the play that gave the Irish an insur­
see SKID I page 17 


• • The Observer/ Eric Ruethling 
T1m Harberts scored h1s 16th goal of the season as the Irish beat Ferris State, 7-2. 

of note...
Bowen tops century mark 
The senior captain sets a milestone as the Irish 
Check tomorrow for results of 
destroy the Panthers ofUWM 
weekend women's tennis action 
... 
See page 17 




