~----------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~ ~---------------------~ 

Friday, January 27, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 74 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NQTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Filling the Pews Two ND sociologists suggest Catholics don't go to Church as much as they say they do. By DAVE lYLER dance because of its dis­News Editor tance from holidays and relatively stable weather When was the last time conditions. you went to church? In a smaller study a If you don't remember, year ago of eighteen dio­you're not alone. ceses and several Two University of Notre Protestant denominations, Dame sociologists have Chaves and two other col­published a continuing leagues registered atten­study of church at­dance among Catholics at tendance levels in the 28 and percent United States in the Protestants at 20 percent. December 1994 issue of The results mark a the Journal for the sharp departure from Scientific Study of Gallup survey numbers Religion, and their find­that annually place ings arc making waves. church attendance at 51 Mark Chaves, an associ­percent of Catholics and ate professor of sociology, 45 percent of Protestants. and graduate student, The 48 dioceses repre­James Cavendish, have sented in the new study uncovered more evidence contain about 38 percent that U.S. Catholics attend of Catholics in the U.S. religious services at a sig­Chaves and Cavendish nificantly lower level than believe there are several popularly reported in reasons for the gap opinion surveys. between the Gallup poll Using data collected and their studies. The from "October counts," or first being forgetfulness. actual head counts from "There is a simple mem­48 Catholic dioceses ory lapse-people saying Chaves and Cavendish they attended church this found that 26.7 percent of past Sunday when it really Catholics attend church in was the Sunday before," any given week. The Chaves said. "Sometimes October counts are an people just forget." average of headcounts The second reason taken during each week­Chaves and Cavendish cite end of October. Church is the interpretation of the leaders site October as a actual Gallup poll ques­good indicator of atten­see CHURCH/ page 4  The Observer/Jan Rezeli A study by Notre Dame sociologists, Mark Chaves and James Cavendish, asserts that Catholics aren't filling pews like they say they do.  
Friday, January 27 6:30p.m. Opening Celebration and Telling Culture Carroll Auditorium 9:30p.m. Reception for Saturday, Jan~i~~18r J:l~~~ · 8:30a.m. Breakfast Regina North Lounge 9:00a.m. 12:00 p.m. Lunch Dining Hall J:OOp.m. 3:00p.m, Living the Millttcull:urat Q Regina North~ ·..· 4:30p.m-' Where Do We Go From ·Regina North ~~t'f ,, ~ ,"\{\5:30p.m. Dinner ·__ ,, ·'­Dining Hall 8:00p.m. Many Voices, Dalloway's Coffee Sunday, January 29 10:00 a.m. Closing Celebration Stapleton Longue II :00 a.m. Brunch and Farewell Dining Hall  Conference explores women's colleges By LAURA FERGUSON daily basis, according to Saint Mary's News Editor Patrick White, associate dean of faculty and Play of the Mind This weekend, students and organizer. faculty from women's colleges "We may not share the same across the nation and Saint ideas and values and we often Mary's will not spend a lot of wind up not connecting and time talking about empower­build up barriers," said White. ment; they will be showing it as "That is one solution for multi­part of the fourth Play of the cultural America but not a Mind Conference. solution anyone wants to see." Saint Mary's will host repre­This year difTers from previ­sentatives from the College of ous conferences in that Julie Saint Elizabeth, Georgian Court Storme, associate professor of College, Mary Baldwin College, modern languages and Mana Saint Mary-of-the-Woods Derakhsani, assistant professor College, Spelman College and of modern languages worked Willian Woods College as they together through the Saint all examine women's colleges Mary's Center for Academic in a multicultural world. Innovation. College cultures, including The weekend will enable stu­classes and social cultures, are dents to learn about each oth­important topics to address in ers campus cultures through order to prepare students for presentations, small group dis­living, moving, and being in a cussions, problem-solving see-world where there are a vari­ety of cultures interacting on a see MIND/ page 5 
The Observer/Robert Bollman, Jr.  

---------------. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, January 27, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Losing sight of life and its sanctity 
On December 30, 1994 
Dave Tyler
two bright, young, caring News Ediror
and dedicated human beings were brutally mur­dered in the prime of their lives, and stolen from their families and loved ones, in Brookline, Massachusetts. 
One of those human beings was Shannon Lowney. Shannon's dad Bill graduated from Notre Dame in the late 50's, as did her cousin Mark several years later. Another cousin, Erin, is a senior at Saint Mary's. Bill Lowney was in my parents wedding party, so our family particularly shares their grief and our hearts, prayers and love go out to them. 
The police will try to tell you that this despicable act of terrorism was perpetrated by one sick and disturbed individual. While it may be true that John Salvi alone pulled the trigger and destroyed the hopes and dreams of two women, there is a complicity in this tragic event that extends much deeper than that. 
For 22 years we have been building up to this. And during this anniversary week of the Roe v. Wade decision, we Americans fmally have achieved what so-called "right to life" groups have wanted for over two decades. 
A climate of fear, hatred and loathing has since developed in this country. It is in the eyes of a great number of Americans now perfectly acceptable to resort to violence and inflict harm on those who don't agree with their view on abortion. They have decided that since the law does not meet their expectations they shall perform the jobs of judge, jury and executioner. No one on the side of the "right to life" groups seems to be standing up and yelling "stop." 
It is often said that when David Forman and his Earth First! group chain themselves to trees, they perform a valuable service for Green Peace and the Sierra Club by making them seem less radical. John Salvi, Paul Hill and other lunatics perform the same function for organizations like Operation Rescue and ND/SMC Right to Life. 
Responsibility for these crimes extends to these groups and others like them who stand in silence or continue to protest clinics despite Cardinal Law's pleas for a moratorium. 
Responsibility lies with the countless people on this campus who write letters to this paper almost daily, shoving their opinions down your throat, making you feel inhuman for disagreeing with them. 
It extends to people like the "Reverend" Donald Spitz and his cohorts who stood outside Salvi's jail cell with signs saying "God bless John Salvi" and other pleas for the man's freedom. Spitz has said publicly that violence and "any means necessary" are okay in order to prevent abortions. 
It goes as far as Republican Senator Bob Dole who said after the shootings that it is "impossible to protect all clinics" from this violence. Would he say that about a shooting at a post office? 
How dare they! How dare they and the millions who follow their opinions assume the power to judge and terminate the lives of innocent adults! How dare they not stand up in moral indignation at the heinous acts of depraved psychotics! 
How dare they act as if they were God and claim the right to give life and the right to take it away! 
This column will without a doubt be attacked as 
being full of random speculation and untruths. But 
there are several facts I do know. 
Shannon Lowney was one of the nicest people you could ever hope to meet. It was my privilege to have known her. Now a carefully planned act of uncon­scionable wickedness has taken her from her fami­ly, friends and loved ones. Not the act of a lone individual, but the act of a large group who have spent millions of dollars and countless time and ink, to breed the climate of hate that killed Shannon. How dare they. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Krisri Kolski Amy Schmidr Viewpoint Suzy Fry Lab Tech Mike Hungeling Production 
Sports Tim Sherman Andy Cabiness Tim Seymour Accent Mary Good Graphics Roberr Bollman 
David Diaz Illustrator Belle Baurisra Garrett Gray 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduaion rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Miami working overtime to safeguard Super Bowl tourists 
MIAMI 
Fasten your seat belts, put your trays in the upright position and whatever you do, don't flash your wallets after landing. 
Tourists traveling to Miami for the Super Bowl are getting plenty of tips on how to avoid becoming another crime statistic in a city nptorious for attacks on out-of-towners. 
In waiting areas at Miami International Airport, visitors can watch a police video on safety tips, including warnings not to pull over on dark streets to look at maps. The air­port is also loaded with pamphlets and special "tourist police" on the look-out for pickpockets. 
Tourists can rent a high-tech car with an electronic mapping system and a panic button that will give police their location. Or they can use new roadside tourist phones to call for help. New highway signs with sunburst symbols will lead them to hotels, where they'll be given more safety tips. 
"We are light-years ahead of any city in the United States on this," boasted Merrett R. Stierheim, president of the Greater Miami Convention and Visitors Bureau. 
The safety campaign began after a series of attacks from October 1992 to September 1993, when nine foreign visitors were killed across the state. 

It seems to be working. Miami and Dade County police report that tourists robberies are down 50 percent to 60 percent this year. 
Miami's leaders want to turn the spotlight from crime to the city's bay­front skyline, spectacular weather, wide beaches, diverse population, win­ter festivals and sports, and access to the Florida Keys and the Everglades. 
Super Bowl mascot Hosty the Bear's costume was stolen last month but quickly recovered. National Football League merchandise was hijacked this week from a Pompano Beach trucking company. About 260 Super Bowl tickets -with a face value of $52,400-were stolen last week from a FedEx office. 
Past or present, crime doesn't bother some visitors. 
"It's never worried me," said Marcela Blalloch, a corporate event planner who flew in for the Super Bowl, to be played Sunday between the San Diego Chargers and the San Francisco 49ers. 
"I come from Washington, D.C. Miami crime is peanuts." 
Mrs. Clinton says 'I have no 
gurus' Two dead in Chapel Hill shooting 
NEW YORK 
Hillary Rodham Clinton says New Age author Marianne Williamson has "an intriguing view about popular culture," but is not her spiritual adviser. Clinton, piqued by a maga­zine report linking her with Williamson, says she has "no gurus, spiritual advisers or any other New Age alternative" to her Methodist reli­gion. "It is factually true that I have met with Ms. Williamson," Mrs. Clinton wrote in a Jan. 20 letter to Esquire magazine. But she added that as first lady, she's "met with Americans of every stripe." Mrs. Clinton's missive came in response to a brief story in a gossip column in the January edition of Esquire. Quoting an unidentified source, the magazine said "I suppose that no matter what I do -or do not do -I will be criticized and exploited by some. Yet, I will continue casting a wide net to meet with as many different Americans as I can," Clinton said. 
Teens turning to risky Jimson Weed 
ATLANTA 
Teen-agers seeking a new high are turning to a deadly plant whose first recorded use was by settlers of Jamestown more than 300 years ago. At least two teens died last year after drinking a poisonous tea made from Jimson weed or eating its seeds, the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported Thursday. The toxic plant causes hallucinations as well as seizures, coma and death. Dry mouth, confusion, agitation, com­bativeness and difficulty speaking and swallowing often accompany the hallucinations, which often are of insects crawling over the body. There is no antidote for Jimson weed poisoning. Jimson was a nickname for Jamestown, the colonial Virginia settlement where the weed's hallu­cinogenic effects were first recorded in 1676. The plant was used by American Indians for medicinal and reli­gious purposes. 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 

A gunman opened fire on the town's main street Thursday, killing two people near the University of North Carolina and peppering cars and the post office with fire from his high-powered rifle. The man began shooting randomly as he walked down the street around 2 p.m., striking a police officer and a student who escaped unharmed when the bullet ricocheted off his keys. All three of the wounded were taken to the hospital; none suffered life-threatening injuries, authorities said. The gunman shot and killed a bicyclist as he was trying to flee, said witness Matt Mesmer. The bicyclist's body was sprawled on the steps of a rooming house, about a half­block from the post office. The other victim fell in front of a sorority house. A backpack stuck out from under a sheet police used to cover the body. After the killings, the gunman hid in a doorway, then came out and started fir­ing at police, said Chris Pierson, a university senior and a bartender at the nearby Tammany Hall bar. He fell after being hit in the legs by police, but continued firing, Pierson said. 
Five arrested in Jewish club attack 
BUENOS AIRES 

Wielding fake machine guns and wearing camouflage uniforms, five magazine employees were arrested while preparing a mock attack on a Jewish sports club, police said. The incident Wednesday night came six months after 95 people were killed in a bomb attack on a nearby Jewish cultural center and almost three years after 29 people died in an attack on the Israeli Embassy. The five were arrested outside the Macabi Sports Club in a down­town Buenos Aires Jewish neighborhood after getting out of a van similar to one which police say was used in a July 18 bomb attack on the Argentine Jewish Mutual Association (AMIA). Police said the mock attack was to have been used to produce a cover story for the popular weekly Noticias magazine, highlighting an alleged lack of security at the city's Jewish centers. The five included a reporter, photographer, two hired models and a driver. 




Atlanta 56 45 Dallas 59 43 Minneapolis 30 23 Baltimore 36 25 Denver 36 25 New York 37 25 Boston 30 13 LA 68 48 Philadelphia 37 25 Chicago 32 27 Miami 78 60 Phoenix 64 43 

Super Bowl safety 
Miami has taken several steps to combat past tourist crime problems: 

• Formation of a tourist-oriented police wing based at the airport that provides specially trained officers to crUise the rental car district. 
1111 Production of aspecial Miami video for air travelers that tells about basic attractions, mentions the tourist-oriented police and offers common-sense tips. 
• Placement of tourist information booths throughout the airp6rt. 1111 Removal of telltale license plates that indicate rental cars and make renters more vulnerable to crime. 




Friday, January 27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Lunch fasting program begins 


By WENDY GRZYWACZ News Writer 
The profits from the Wednesday Lunch Fast pro­gram serve to "provide food aid and also teach people how to provide for themselves" accord­ing to Lara Sweedo, World !Iunger Coalition member. 
The highly successful pro­gram run by the Coalition has students skip their Wednesday lunches. The money saved by the dining hall (approximately $1.90 per lunch) is donated directly to international grass roots organizations throughout the world. 
More than three hundred students signed up for the Fast last semester. according to Sweedo. The program has been effective throughout the years and serves as a model for programs at other schools. 
The proceeds from the pro­gram go primarily to victims of national disasters, refugees, and others in need of food. Organizations involved include GrainShare, Chol Chol, Caritus, and Mar de Plata which help in areas such as Bangladesh and other underdeveloped parts of the world. 

By raising donations through collections in dorms, concession stands. and other fundraisers. Notre Dame's World Hunger Coalition has also aided the South Bend area with food bas­kets and other services. 
Sign-ups were held this week to allow those coming back from abroad or people with schedufe changes to fast during the spring semester. 
Those wishing to join the Fast who have not signed up already may do so by calling Lara Sweedo at 4-4851. World Hunger Coalition meetings are also held once each month and are open to anyone interested. 
Winter weather brings more than snow to Mod Quad 
By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer 
A water main erupted be­tween Flanner and Grace Hall Thursday morning, reportedly leaving minor water damage to Grace and forcing the Notre Dame Utilities Department to temporarily turn off the water supply to the two dorms. 
The rupture occurred at ap­proximately 7:00 am when the cast iron pipe broke, causing water to spill into the general vicinity. Utilities staff quickly shut off the water supply to avoid any significant damage to the dormitories, and repairs to the main were fully completed at 1:00pm. 
The pipe broke when the ground froze and then warmed again, causing a shift that the main was unable to withstand, according to Edward Keve, as­sistant director of Utilities. 
The location of the leak made it accessible by the Utilities Department, which is stationed at the power plant across the street from Flanner Hall. 
Incidents like these are not unusual. according to Keve, es­pecially in the winter when· temperature fluctuations are more common. "Already this year we have had main breaks at the Married Student Housing complex and the Fatima Retreat House," he said. 
"We'll have more in the fu­ture," he said. "It's a fact of life." 

The Air Force is Hiring! Scholarships are available! Air Force ROTC is about learning leadership skills, training to be an offi­cer in the United States Air Force, helping your community, having fun, and most important of all, serving your country. 
For more details check out the Air Force ROTC homepage through mosaic in any computer cluster (http://www.nd.edu/-afrotc). 
So if you are interested in getting a scholarship and joining one of the best organizations in the world, then contact Capt. Richard Harter at 631-4674 or send email to: afrotc@darwin.cc.nd.edu. 
22nd Annual Summer ProgramND-SMC Students 
London Rome May 24-June 23 June 18-July 17 
Courses offered in 
Music, Education, Business & Economics, History, Italian 
Informational & Organizational Meeting February 6, 6:30p.m., Carroll Hall SMC 
Student-Faculty Pizza Social 
Past student and faculty participants will be present. 
For information, call Prof. Black 284-4460 or 272-3726 

Special to The Observer 
Alumni Senior Club will be sponsoring a fund-raiser to benefit the Meghan Beeler/Colleen Hipp Scholarship Fund. the "Free Food Night" will begin at 9 p.m.. with a cover charge of five dollars at the door. Any additional donations are welcomed, and all proceeds will di­rectly benefit the scholar· ship fund. Campus band Sunshine Wine wiiJ also be performing, and door prizes 
·· will be awarded throughout the evening. Students must be 21 to attend. 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 27, 1995 
Church 
continued from page 1 
tions. "People who are more­or-less regular churchgoers may interpret the questions as asking about what they usually do, rather than about what they did last Sunday," said Chaves. 
The third reason is most im­portant; said Chaves. "There is the well known tendency for individuals for individuals in self-report surveys to exagger­ate what they perceive to be socially desirable behavior." 
"It's still socially desirable to go church, it's still the thing to 
·do on Sunday," Cavendish adds "and people apparently want to be seen as following that behavior." Regardless of the source of the gap, <:;haves cautions against reading too far into the figures. Because their numbers are from a single year its "not clear that there is a decline in church attendance," he said. "The gap between attendance and self reported attendance may always have been there and we just didn't know it." The main point of Chaves' findings is that self-report polls about religious behavior should not be taken at face value. Cavendish believes the num­bers represent a wake up call' of sorts for scholars of religion. "Church attendance has been 
the classic measure of religios­ity for sociologists. This study raises questions about mea­sures traditionally used to mea­sure religiosity." 
"This study shakes confidence in poll data or conclusions that sociologists or historians have reached that either attack themes of secularization or that point out American ex­ceptionalism {uniqueness) based on church attendance theories," Cavendish said. "This study says that maybe the numbers aren't as strong and stable as once thought." 
Chaves claims these numbers are not as shocking as they seem. "An informed observer would not be surprised by read­ing our report," he said. 

Rev. Peter Jarrett C.S.C, an associate pastor at Christ the King parish in South Bend, said his church has attendance fig­ures similar to those in the Chaves and Cavendish report. "On any given weekend we see between 30 and 33 percent of our registered parishioners," said Jarrett. "About one third of our parishioners contribute gift envelopes at our collections, and that's a fairly accurate indicator of how many people come to church." 
Jarrett realizes that if the Gallup poll results were closer to reality, churches couldn't 

S.A.R.G. SCAVENGER HUNT 

During the season, the Holy One ~ clue #5: watched over them as they succeeded. ~' But Moses had the final say of who was 
W. on top that season. 

·~~*'*'*'~*'*'~M::;:;:;~J:<::~:~;;:~~:~:::*:~~:ii~i::i:r<:i~i:::~<~~$:>.:i:ill!:O:::*"'i~-'*'*~'*i"*?:*:*'*'/ 


When found, turn the treasure in to the Alumni Office (Rm. 201 Main Building) to claim the cordless phone. For past clues, stop by the Alumni/S.A.R.G. Office. 
handle the influx or parish­ioners. "No way, we'd be flood­ed. Don't get me wrong, we'd love to have that problem." He says the church has to take a stance of reluctant acceptance of the statistics and at the same time continue efforts to invite people to become more involved in the church. 
Chaves and Cavendish note some interesting regional quirks to their study. "Urban areas had lower attendance rates, with the west coast hav­ing the lowest," said Chaves. 
"But areas where Catholics were a distinct minority re­ported the highest figures." The diocese of Owensboro. Kentucky is roughly five per­cent Catholic, but churches there reported a 60 percent at­tendance figure. 
Cavendish points out that the study highlights a discrepancy, rather than offers a solution. "There's no message in this data alone," he says. "It's un­clear what church leaders would have to do to get people to come more often." 
CROSS COUNTRY 
~BEGINNER 
~KICLINIC 
SATURDA~JANUARY28 
11:00 AM 
NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE $5.00 CHARGE 
EQUIPMENT RENTAL A VAlLA~ $2.00 ADDITIONAL -4L 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS WEAR LAYERED CLOTHING & WARM GLOVES 
_,; 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
•TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT 
•CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 





232-8256 

Welcome Back to the Interfaith 
Campus Bible Study 
Old Members and New Ones  
Meeting  
When:  Tuesday, January 31, 7:00p.m.  
Where:  Conference Room I Badin Hall Campus Ministry Office  
What:  Discussion on Matthew Ch. 15 -16.  
Fr. Al D'Alonzo, Director  
For more information, call 631-5242  

Let Us Ponder the Message 
18 

of the Lord 0MPUS MINISTRY 


JPW 1995 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break February 17,18,19 Sign Ups are: SAT 1/28 9:30A.M.-6:00P.M. SuN 1/29 10:30 A.M.-6:00P.M. 
Catering Employment Office 
Basement South Dining Hall 
... ' 
Friday, January 27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Please, Recycle The Observer 
Mind 
continued from page 1 
narios, and an open micro­phone for reflections, poetry, prose and song. 
Events from Friday evening until the closing celebration are open to all students. An esti­mated 200 Saint Mary's stu­dents will join the two students and one faculty member or administrator representatives from each of the other colleges. 
Although some students were nominated by faculty, Resident Advisors, and fellow students to participate, all students are encouraged to enter the Play of the Mind community for any period of time. 
"This is not an exclusive club," said White. "If you want · to participate we will hand you a program and off you go." 
According to White, the whole concept of the Play of the Mind Conference came out of a grant project several years ago with the understanding that students and faculty both make distinctions between academic life and social life or play. 
White says he realized that there shouldn't be a distinction between play and intellect. 
"The play of the mind is always fun but it is scary because it depends on faculty and students as partners and not every thing is planned out before hand," he said. 
"This is the kind of confer­ence that utilizes the best aspects of Saint Mary's, such as the friendliness, the warmth, and the willingness not think hard and to take risks," said White. "It is not a relaxed envi­ronment, it is intense and excit­ing where people are fired up." 
The most visible benefit of this conference for students is that they get the opportunity to see other students and faculty who are committed to women's institutions. 
"A number of students have gone into the conference not happy with women's colleges and afterwards they have decided to stay because the conference confirmed that this is what they wanted to be doing," said White. 
The Play of the Mind is made possible by the support of the Saint Mary's Student Government, the Center for Academic Innovation and the Uly Endowment. 



God gives each 
•·4..; SEF.N. i.i~T ·;.~.ii•~ ;,;·Ci1S.NitWS~·;B ·.ifaUiL-.~··.
..........................................
BREAK person one lifetime. 
~----.-~~. ·. · What are you doing with yours? 

Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. 
SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 

VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 

• PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK OATES /LENGTH OF STAY. 
1~8QQ~SIJ·NCII4.S·E 
TOLi. m.. ~~o~ro~W•T•oN s. IIE"ssn-•TroNs 
Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
tudents can submit vi eos HS until the middle of March. Films are asked to be under 8 minutes, 
any topic or style allowed. The Festival will take place on March 30! Awards and cash prizes given! 
Submit videos or questions to: 
Scott Palumbo 
105 Morrisse x3454 
BED 'N BREAKFAS 
REGISTRY 

Rooms in private homes for: 
JPW, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBALL and Othrr Special ND/SMC WEEKENDS 
(219) 291-7153 
HURRY! 
SPACE IS UMITEDI l'rlcr b:ild!smutr:J"*'-"""' ~lmlmnil~t.Jirl 
~bll!td oo qJid OCilPftY. r.....not twdrd. 
Coundl Travel 1153 N. Dearborn, 2nd Aoor Chicago, ll60610 

311•951•0585 
Call for availability, prices, and other Spring Break destinations. 
Clubs' community service and continuing education  ··. ·  that  
an outstanding young alum award is presented  each  
spring. They see travel possibilities like the  in '97.  
And they are sure to check the Notre Dame Club  areas where they  
might settle after graduation.  
You can vote . ·  
CandidateS IUKJM-L<UKt:  
Grady '92.  
m,.U it or  
bring it in,  


L 
r 



I ~ Italian government enters public~ economic crisis 
Friday, January 27, 1995
page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
ERASMUS BO • Used books bougi1t and sold • 25 categories of Books • 25,00J Hardback and Paperback books in stock • Out-of-Print Search Service: $200 • Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232·8444 GLACIER NATIONAL PARK, MONTANA Come have the best summer of your life. Enjoy the invigorating, challenging experience ofliving in the awesome Rocky Mountains. St. Mary Lodge & Resort, Glacier Parks finest, now hiring for the 1995 summer season. Come see us on campus on February 2nd and 3rd. Schedule an interview through your Career Development Center now. Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime.  TRADE SECRET Present This Coupon and Receive Buy One Image Product at Regular Price Get the Second One 50°/o Off. (Equal or Lesser Value) Trade Secret Special Offer Valid January 25-February 5, 1995 Valid only at University Park Mall location. Not valid with any other offers or discounts.  

sides became a personal cam­paign that focused on Berlusconi, a man of words and images whose career was built on real estate, television li­censes, and later publishing and finance. Though he heads a company worth 1.2 trillion lira, Berlusconi is facing a debt of over 3.8 trillion lira or 2.2 billion dollars," said Evans. 
According to Evans, the March 1994 election was one of the worst in calculating propor­tional representation. "This 

Are you interested in a position on the Notre Dame campus this summer (June 26 to August 5) as a Youth Coordinator for the NCAA National Youth Sports Program? The position provides room and board on campus, three hours of academic credit, and a tuition stipend of $1200. Each coordinator will be in charge of a group of twenty 10-to 16-year old kids from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in our local community. These 10 positions are part of Notre Dame's overall Summer Service Program. Call Sue Cunningham at 1-7867. 
By MElANIE lAFLIN News Writer 
"Silvo Berlusconi took on an impossible task and failed mis­erably," according to Robert Evans, director of the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, Bologna Center, Italy and former Notre Dame professor at a lecture yesterday in the Hesburgh Center. 
Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, Department of Government and International Studies, and the Nanovic Center for European Studies, the lec­ture entitled "Italian Politics: Does it have a future?" took on a somewhat pessimistic view. "Italians wanted and believed that a new form of government would be better, but Italy has traded one type of regime un­der the Christian Democrats for another," said Evans. 

Former Prime Minister Berlusconi, who just stepped down in December 1994, bore the brunt of Evan's criticisms as the main cause of the eco­nomic and governmental crisis that started eight months ago. 
"Berlusconi, with his indeci­sive character and en­trepreneurial skills, went into politics to save his economic empire and has run the Parliament as if it were a com­pany. Amateurs in politics aren't necessarily successful," Evans stated. 
"His attacks on the Judiciary and the Bank of Italy are coun­terproductive and can't lead to support. Berlusconi, with his limited understanding of the Constitution and Parliament procedures, gets around the rules rather than respecting them. He simply doesn't have the 'good stuff."' 
"The terribly unedifying cam­paign full of insults on both 

Something special is coming your way vecy soon. 
Seniors are Very Important People to the Alumni Association. That's why you receive The ALUMNI Newsletter during your senior year. Soon­to-be-grads learn about young alumni activities. They discover . . .. . .Dame 
WCJ~Ii:> 
PauiJ. Bonitatibus '71 President, Notre Dame Alumni Assodalion 
e:::........ 


Executive Director, Notre Dame Alumni Assodation Assistant Vice President for University Relations 

election guaranteed the sur­vival of the center, the survival of the Social Democrats." 
To add to the list of negatives. Evans also mentioned the prac­tice of paying off the political parties by all large companies in Italy. Bribery and corruption have plagued the government since 1978, according to Evans. 
The Fascist party seems to be making a comeback as well, since its popularity, mainly coming from the south of Italy, has risen from 6-8% to 11%. 
Italy is looking for a change in its political culture. "They are left with an intolerable debt of 2 billion lira, that's $20,000 of public debt allotted to each Italian citizen, a 10% tax in­crease due to the public debt, and a government in crisis," said Evans. 
"If attacks continue, violence may not be too far off. But, the democratic fiber is strong," added Evans. Evans predicted Berlusconi will not be reelected prime minister. 


._
271-0125 
.._,_,,.,, 
I 
WI-. 

Friday, January 27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 



Nekvaskil discusses role of women scientists 
By lAURA SMITH 

News Writer 
As part of the Women's Week Brown Bag Lunch Series at Saint Mary's, Dr. Nancy Nekvaskil presented a lecture titled "Women and a Community" yesterday after­noon in Haggar Parlor. Nekvaskil is an assistant pro­fessor in the biology depart­ment at Saint Mary's. She was invited by the Saint Mary's Student Academic Counsel to discuss women in science. Nekvaskil discussed the rela­tionships among women, sci-

with special guest pete droge 
TICKETS ON SALE THIS SAT@ 10A.M. 
MARCH 3RD • 8:00P.M. 

NOTREDAMEJOYCECENTER 
Reserved seat tickets $28.50, $24.50 & $20.00 available at the Notre Dame JACC Box Office, L.S. Ayres, Karma Records and all -~ locations or Charge by Phone at 219-272-7979. PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS 

GRAND OPENING 

HOURS: 'TILL 1 AM SUN­


FREE 
THURS 'TILL 2 AM FRI 

DELIVERY! 
AND SAT 
~.:$·~-~-•.,.~":'7:~=·· ;.~,)~~~:.:t"H~rYi'?!:'::, 

'tSUPERBQ;WL SPECfA' i ~14 INCH 2 ITEM PIZZA .. $7 INCLUDEST 
~ OR ' 
.; 2-121NCH SIX ITEM PIZZAS-$10 INQUDESTAX .. 

.. •/ .} 





273-3890 
"STILL THE BEST" 
ence, and friendships. 

Nekvaskil focused her talk on her own personal history. She discussed the importance of friendships and community in her decision to explore a career in the field of science. "Every example I can think of for why I went into science has to do with friendships or community" she said. 
According to Nekvaskil, her first important community ex­perience was with her family of four sisters, mother, and father. Nekvaskil's family was very influential in her decision to study science. "I literally never heard the phrase 'you can't do it because you are a girl', even from my father" said Nekvaskil. 
She explained that her sec­ond important community expe-rience was her intergen­erational relationship with her mother, her aunt, and her ma­ternal grandmother. These three women were important role models fro Nekvaskil. Her aunt worked her way through college and her grandmother also earned a college degree. Nekvaskil said, "More than I probably know, these women have been terrific role models". 
Nekvaskil stated that her mother was a strong woman who never ended her quest for education. Nekvaskil's mother graduated from college while Nekvaskil was in graduate school. "My mother never pushed me in any direction ex­cept where I wanted to go, in­cluding marriage and chil­dren", said Nekvaskil. "I don't think I knew how wise she was until I was an adult". 
Nekvaskil explained that she still searches for this sense of community in her friendships with women today. These friendships are very important to her. She said, "They offer support, they don't judge, they don't offer advice unless I ask, 
RECRUITING DATES: February 1, 2 and 3 at Career and Placement Services. Open to all majors. 

~ 

R'l SKI RENTAlS
cRoss couNt 
CHECK OUT: 4:30 -5:30 PM THURSDAY, FRIDAY 
11:00 AM -2:00 PM SMIIRDA'I CHECK IN: 4:30 -5:30 PM FRIDA'I, SUNDAY 
11:00 AM -2:00 PM SMIIRDAY 
UJES: •uo OVERJIIOIIT 'S.OO 1WO NIOim 
16.00 THREE Nlotns
•too WURD. ft:OOAIII • 2:00PM 
AT THE GOlF SHOP 


Be Lit 
at the 1995 S 
*** 

nightly readings by con 


8:00 Hesburgh 
"We are building our minds,· satisfaction, how to get it, to kee quality ofour lives."--]. C 

REcsPoRTs 
OPEN TO STUDENTS, fACUlTY AND STAFF 
SKIS, BOOTS AND POlES NO RESERVATION NECESSARY 
' 6~·6425 


ry... 
Literary Festival. 
-16 *** 
rary writers 

find what will give us Our minds decide the Cooper Feb. 13 
and they just listen". 

Nekvaskil discussed the fact that women communicate dif­ferently thn men. Women often form friendships easily and open up to those friends earli­er. She stated that a woman's gift for nurturing is the reason women have historically been teachers and nurses. Nekvaskil pointed out, however, that a gift for nurturing does not negate the ability to do research or run a clinic.. 
Finally, Nekvaskil discussed the importance of a women's college in developing this sense of community. According to Nekvaskil, a Women's College is a great place to learn and to be free to be oneself. "If we are not given a safe place to try our wings, it will be a long time before we get off the ground," she said. 
Nekvaskil then asked the small group in attendance if anyone had ever been told she could not pursue her dreams. One student explained that her father told her she could not study medicine, but this only made her more determined to prove that she could do it. Another student stated that Saint Mary's has given her the opportunity to pursue any goal she wanted. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5232 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, January 27, 1995 
The Obsel'Ver/Mike Ruma 
Sing, sing a song ... 
A Farley resident from section 28 contributes to a unique version of Star Search as part of the the talent show for "Pop Farley." 


THE NINTH ANNUAL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS IS SCHEDULED FOR FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1995. THE PROCEEDS FROM THIS ALL-NIGHT SPORTS EXTRAVAGANZA GO TO BENEFIT THE ST. JOSEPH COUNTY SPECIAL OLYMPICS. FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT YOUR HALL REPRESENTATIVE OR CALL RECSPORTS AT 631-6100. 
THE DEADLINE FOR ENTERING A TEAM IS MONDAY, JANUARY 30. 



Freshman gain parking priveleges 
By JULIA COSMIDES News Writer 

Due to a petition written by the freshmen class council to Professor Patricia O'Hara, Vice President for Student Affairs, freshmen are now allowed to park in Lot D-2. 
Matthew Griffin, freshmen class secretary, issued a state­ment on Monday in that said "parking privileges have been granted to members of the freshmen class for Spring Semester 1995." This is in ac­cordance with the policy main­tained by the Office of Student Affairs, stating that second­semester freshmen may park on campus if a petition is filed with their office. The petition must be filed each year, and it is up to the discretion of Professor Patty O'Hara whether or not the plea is granted. 
In order to enjoy the parking privileges they have received as a result of this year's petition, 
Happy 21st Birthday, ~®! IIDrrrnrr2 
All our love, 
Mom, Dad, 

Mary Frances, 
Smudge, & 
Buttercup 

freshmen must abide by certain requirements. One of these re­quirements is a grade point av­erage of at least 2.0. Similarly, any first-year student on disci­plinary probation will not be permitted to have a car at the University, and any students who are placed on probation during the course of the semes­ter will have their parking priv­ileges automatically revoked. 
All cars must be registered in accordance with security direc­tives, the complete list can be obtained from the University's Parking Office in the Campur;; Security Building (631-5053). Students wishing to park on campus must also follow all traffic and parking regulations as outlined by .!2.!Jl.a&. 
Griffin added a reminder to all freshmen who choose to park on campus, saying that the University's policy regard­ing driving under the influence sanctions the forfeiture of all vehicle registration and campus driving/parking privileges at Notre Dame, even for first-time offenders. 
Prelaw Society Meeting 



120Law School .··Monday, January 30 
What juniors should be doing NOW What seniors should be doing NOW Nominations of new officers Discussion of the Prelaw Society goals 
Refreshments will be seroed 






VIEWPOINT 
Friday, January 27, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 

Managing Editor  Business Manager  
John Lucas  Joseph Riley  
News Editor ................................ David Tyler  Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge  
Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry  Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayrer  
Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann  Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser  
Accent Editor ...............................Mary Good  Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan  
Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall  Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig  
Saint Mary's Ediror............... Eiizabeth Regan  Controller..................................... Kristen Martina  

The Obsen•er is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion of dther institution. The news is reported as accurately and objecdvdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commen'-'lries, lenC'rs and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• BEYOND fREEDOM ROCK 
Can Disney go service? 
The day I start agreeing with Charlie Hice, you can expect to see Hillary and Newt holding hands at the soda parlor. 
Break out the hot fudge, folks. Charlie was right-on in his column last semes­ter, in which he accused the university of losing its way-not in the sense in which he is far-right on most issues, but right on as in righteous. 
Notre Dame, Inc. has become the Disney World of Catholic education: glitzy, beautiful, world-famous, plastic, 
Pete Peterson 


and without a soul. Mickey and Minnie and Hudy and Donald and Goofy and Knute, all packaged and available at the concession stand. where we sell books in the attic. 
I am not talking about the football team. This is not an alum who suffered testosterone failure because his team got its collective butt kicked. But they wouldn't have been present for the mug­ging if they weren't the Fighting Ducks or the Mighty Irish or whoever they are. 
Anyway, the response to getting your butt kicked is usually, "Gee, I guess the program isn't sulliciently out of control after all. Is Barry Switzer or Jimmy .Johnson available'?" Great. Terrific. 
No, what I'm talking about is that obscure subsidiary of Notre Dame, Inc. that isn't about selling ball caps. I'm talking about the part of Notre Dame in which the books deal with Augustine of Hippo instead of Joseph of Montana. 
I mean the school, the educational wing of the University of Our Lady of the II ubristic Construction Projects. Perhaps you've seen It, it's kind of like Colonial Williamsburg. People walk around in accurately detailed 20th century cos­tumes, many including that famous logo, and sit in classrooms and so forth. It gives the campus the atmosphere of a real, if a bit Norman Rockwell-ish, university. It lends a bit of collegiate verisimilitude for the benefit of the tourists on football weekends and a great setting for captains of industry to erect memorial tax write-offs to them­selves. If the powers that be in Congress decide to let Bill Clinton have any of his programs, there's even a chance that the school will become a nice tax write­ofT for your parents, or even you, in the future. 
It strikes me as inequitable that if I invest in the education of young people at Notre Dame in a general sense, I can write it ofT on my taxes. If, on the other hand, I invest in the education of a par­ticular young man at Vassar (as I do), it is not deductible. Moreover, interest on the loans you take out to pay for your education in order to become a more productive person with much greater income to pay taxes on, is not deductible. But if you borrow money to buy a house, interest on that loan is deductible, because the housing industry is vital to the economy. And, by implica­tion, education isn't. 
Don't think this will begin making sense when your hair turns gray and falls out. If that were the case, I would understand it completely. 
Now, the administration would say that the football program does so much to underwrite the cost of running the university that I should not decry its ex­cesses. And I repeat that, while I am dis­appointed at the extent to which that particular tail has been permitted to wag the dog, I'm not just complaining about football. 
Maybe Father Sorin was an empire builder, but, whatever his intentions in building this place, I just don't think it's necessary to create a tower of Babel or a memorial to Ozymandius when there are so many more practical things that could be happening at Notre Dame. 
Imagine this, if you will: You are a rich alum, and a development person comes to you and says, "Look, instead of putting your name over an archway on a new building, we want to put your name on the hearts of several thousand Catholics." 
Imagine that the university quit going after bricks and mortar, quit expanding its research programs, quit trying to run satellite TV, quit trying to be the stars of the NBC Fall Lineup, and, instead, became a Catholic "service academy." Like West Point, Annapolis or the Air Force Academy, promising young Catholic students could come to Notre Dame and be educated. At no cost to them beyond personal expenses. Yeah, yeah, some jerk with a spreadsheet is going to show that it couldn't happen. He'll show that it would take more money than exists in all the treasuries of the universe to educate that many stu­dents. And therefore, it is more advanta­geous and practical to expand the research programs to attract grant money and to let the football program run wild to attract even more money. It is more practical to keep turning out graduates who are so deeply in debt that they will never be able to get a secure foothold in the outside world; particular· ly since their parents' generation has kindly and gently left them an economy in which french-fried potatoes play a disproportionately central role. 
Maybe it can't happen. Maybe a strong undergraduate program with incredible financial aid and a religious base that not only meant a chapel in each dorm, but also a community service unit as part of that subsidized education is impractical and stupid. 
Could be. And maybe some historian will yank out some quotes about Sorin that will show he really was greedy, that he was trying to put his name in history rather than just do God's work by edu­cating young people. That could be, too. 
But my great-great-grandfather was a farmer, an immigrant from Ireland, who was homesteading his way west when he happened to settle on a plot of land in Mishawaka. He came over to Father Sarin's church and joined the other Catholics in the area in building what is now the Old College. I can honestly say my family laid the first bricks at Notre Dame. 
I don't think Jeremiah Lucey was such a wealthy man that he could donate his time and labors to create an empire. I think he wanted to do something good, something for the church, something for God, and something to benefit young people. I think a lot of others have given to Notre Dame in the years since, for much the same reason. 
Finally, I think it's time to put away the trowels and start concentrating on education. 
Pete Peterson, '71, is Readership Services Manager at the Press­Republican, in Plattsburgh, NY. 
•  000NESBURY  
t.WRTH IT, I HOP&. \  I GU85!?. ~Had57H& 71?/AL.OF 7H& ceNTURY 60/NG?' \  

GARRY TRUDEAU 

8.P. I AR£ YOU TRYING 70 8eTM& 7HROWN OFP 7He 
JURY? I CAN'TBR&AlH& A 1410/UlA80l/T7H& 71?/Al! 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Jhad been my whole life a bell, and never knew it until at that moment I was lift­ed and struck." 
-Annie Dillard 
... , ..... , •• ~ .. , ... 1111 ...... ····~·· 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, January 27, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE Eom:m 
Let's not subject Columbus, history to PC paranoia 
Dear Editor: 
On January 24, a letter from Mr. Daniel Chong was published in The Observer which harshly condemned Christopher Columbus and Notre Dame's best of the Western Christian Civilizationpaintings of him. There is no denying the which Columbus represented. Withoutfact that Columbus was not a paragon of Columbus, a French, Catholic universityvirtue. However, to turn Columbus into would never have been founded here. 
the Evil Genius of Western Supremacy is History continues to thrive as a body of a bit extreme. He might not have "dis­knowledge because we are constantlycovered" the New World, but there is no reevaluating it in light of our evolving and 
doubt that his explorations sparked more modern perceptions of life.
Western interest and immigration to that 
However, in that re-evaluation it is 
New World. Who knows how many of us absolutely essential that we avoid re­
would be here if not for Columbus? 
writing history altogether. 
Notre Dame's very existence in these 
KATHLEEN URDA 
United States is a direct result of the very 
McCandless Hall 

Pro-choice agenda not media's 
Dear Editor: 
I wish to commend Michael Sheliga ("New Angle," Jan 24) on his insight. Indeed, one of the biggest hurdles facing the pro-life movement's attempt to convince the American public of rightness of its position is itself. I find each of recommendations for improving the pro-life message to be, to credit, timely and quite sound. 
Nonetheless, as evidenced by his preliminary remarks, Sheliga needs to add one more suggestion to his list: stop beating the dead horse of pro-choice/media conspira­cy cliches. Regardless of one's opinion of particular media institutions and members, to accuse the entire industry of promoting a pro-choice agenda is senseless hyperbole. More importantly, it is one of the primary "turn-offs" of the pro-life message of which Sheliga speaks. Yet, Sheliga resorts to such cliche with the detriment of his argument. 
If pro-lifers strive to make their message less extreme and more in line with the views of average citizens, the majority of whom are pro-life, the movement will gain a tidal wave of adherents. But if they insist on claiming the public is being brainwashed by the media, the public will rightfully show its indigence at having its collective intel­ligence insulted by withdrawing its support from the pro-life movement. 
STEPHEN SMITH 
Senior 
Alumni Hall 
me, there is im discernible dif· Wars," and the U.S. Arrny. ri!.~ 9r Ozersky is simply absurd. one can stop .a nuclear. missile (a valuing a militaristic system.) claims to follow the. ultimate isthe peace-engendering struc­. od Chdstian killers? Even further, to worship the false god of hierar-
U.S. military has a glorious his to­thE! irtdi!~etiOl.ltS' PllOJP1es, invasion of Mexico, invasion of J:lhi!Apilltes. Jn.,r.as:mn ofHawaii. invasion of Panama, inva­of the most destructive weapons of concentration camps, rape of 
."''""'''uu·of Haiti, and atomic desolation in . e who stahds in the way of 
DAVID MCMAHON 
Junior Dismas House 




Clinic protests defeat pro-life movement 
After anti-abortion crackpot John Salvi killed a couple of abortion providers in Boston, and shot a few more in Virginia, Boston's Cardinal Bernard Law called for a moratorium on pro-life protests outside abortion clinics. The Operation Rescue crowd was pre­dictably offended at the suggestion. The Cardinal, they said, "has made a cardi­nal error": we won't stop protests until there are no more abortions. Why should pro-lifers have to stop protesting, outside abortion clinics, just because one or two crackpots started shooting at abortion doctors? It's not fair! It's not our fault! 
I say it is our fault, and I say we ought to stop protesting outside abortion clin­ics for at least awhile. Why? 
First, you could say that on a purely pragmatic, utilitarian level, it does no good. While there are cases of women who decide not to go through with the abortion, another 1.5 million women go ahead and do it anyway. The Great American Smoke-Out saves more lives than a year's worth of pro-life protests. Moreover, those protests give pro-lifers a bad reputation. We look like weird, non-normal Americans, who are shout­ing at distraught women outside nor­mal-looking doctors' offices. 
Alternately, you could point out that it shifts the focus of the abortion debate away from the unborn children to the abortion protester. By protesting abor­tion, we rephrase the dispute. Instead of abortion being a doctor and a woman against an unborn child, it's Biblepushing, Rosary-saying Christians against victimized women and heroic abortion doctors wearing bulletproof vests. It's like a retaliation foul in foot­ball. It's a corollary of the old adage, "an eye for an eye leaves the whole world blind": responding to an attack distracts from the wrongness of the initial attack by providing an alternate bone of con­tention. 
While these points are both true, and are perhaps convincing by themselves, I want to argue something else. I want to suggest that the recent abortion violence is only the outward manifestation of a problem in the pro-life movement which is much deeper and much more serious. I believe that after these last twenty-two years of fighting abortion, we pro-lifers are suffering from a lack of faith. 
You see, we've been out there on the "front lines," knowing that if we can't stop some particular women going in for an abortion, no one else ever will. A life will be ended. That (naturally) makes us feel helpless; saddened; frustrated. When that happens, the normal human tendency is to shout. "Please don't kill your baby." Maybe at the doctor: "Childkiller!" Standing before a func-
Charles Roth 

tioning abortion clinic is to take on some responsibility for what's going on inside: mass murder. But the "responsibility" comes with no power attached. We can do nothing about what's going on inside. 
That's where prayer comes in: Jesus said, "You can do nothing without me." So we sit outside these clinics within which unborn children are dying, and we pray. We ask God to do what we can­not. 
But then one second later, another women drives up to the clinic, or rides up in a taxi. Now, again, it's up to us! So we try to talk to her, and she drives by without looking, and we watch another unborn child about to be killed. And so we start shouting again. From prayer mode to shout mode in 2.3 seconds. The moment passes and we're once again standing out front with no one to con­vince but ourselves; so we start praying again. 
Of course, when there's counter-pro­testers, the situation gets a bit more complicated. Do we try to convince them? Ah, but these strange people have a tendency to shout back nasty slogans that hurt our feelings. And any attempts at peace-making tend to be frustrated by someone within our ranks calling them child-murderers or something. So their presence occasions a permanent shift to shout mode. But we have to pray; there are children being aborted inside the clinic! So we begin to utter prayers that are more like war-cries. Prayers with a target. "God forgive them; they know not what they do!" 
The problem is two-fold. First, they (and we) begin to see prayer (and reli­gion in general) as a weapon. This is not oruy bad for theological reasons, but for other reasons as well. It forecloses ap­peals to pro-choicers along those lines, since they will hesitate to discuss mat­ters in what appears to be the enemy's lexicon. It makes pro-choicers more dis­trustful of Christianity, which is general­ly bad for their souls. Eventually, it will lead to a religious counter-attack. You will see more groups like "Catholics for Free Choice," and more events like the recent "Convocation for Peace" held by Planned Parenthood in the New York Episcopalian church, St. John the Divine. I guarantee it. 
But as serious as this problem is, the effect that these distractions have on our prayers is just as serious. In the Gospels, Jesus denounces those who pray on the street corners where everyone is watch­ing, and I suspect that this is only par­tially because the Pharisees were doing it for public applause. Imagine that you're sitting through Mass next to a girl you've been dating or like to be dating) (this applies to women, too, I· think). It can be darned distracting. On the one hand, the prayer can be more intense. But on the other hand, it's sort of tough to banish thoughts of, "What's she thinking right now?" and "What would she think if I sing?" I doubt seriously if God appreciates it when we care so much about the way we're perceived by other humans, and not so much about our "relationship" to Him. I suspect that the shouting and the sign-carrying, and maybe even the singing, distracts from our prayers. 
Who cares? At the most basic level, we as a movement are relying on those prayers. Individuals by themselves are helpless to change vast social trends. And at any rate, we're completely with­out influence on the women within those clinic doors. So we must rely on the power of prayer, first (generally) for a change in societal attitudes, and second, for those women whom we ourselves are powerless to speak with. It's simple logic. If we're relying on prayer, and protesting makes our prayer less power­ful, then we should stop protesting. 

Most pro-lifers are pro-life (for better or worse) because of a religious convic­tion which informs their ethical think­ing. We Christians especially need to ask whether we really believe in the power of prayer. I guess it sounds corny, but that's what it comes down to. Prayers outside clinics are no more powerful or effective than prayers in Churches. If the analysis above is correct, our prayers are probably more powerful inside a church, especially in the silent presence of the Eucharist. 
Why not pray inside churches? I think our main hesitation is that the other side wants us to get away from their clinics. But if your enemy slaps you on one cheek, offer him the other. Why? Not out of simple masochism, but because that acceptance may jolt that person into realizing (as we should already) that there are greater powers at work in the world. We must have reliance on God in our struggle against abortion; at this point, that means trusting to His inter­vention with these women instead of our own direct influence. 
After 22 years, who could blame the pro-life movement for giving up and for pessimistically deciding that we're never going to convince America to end abor­tion? For becoming desperate, and thereafter, for becoming violent? By withdrawing to our churches, we would be exhibiting .:to ourselves and to others the reliance tbat we place in God. If we are doing God'-s will by being pro-life, it makes no sense to be pessimistic. God never loses. 
Charles Roth is a second year law stu­dent. 
• BooK REVIEW 

Chimes highlights community talent 
By LESLIE FIELD Literary Critic 
InefTable feelings. Powerful thoughts. You will find both bound within the 135 page 1994 Sesquicentennial edition of Chimes; the Saint Mary's annually pub­lished literary book. 
This compilation of literary work is bursting with flavor and depth. Perhaps even more importantly, it is bursting with heritage. According to Sister Hosaleen Dunleavy of the Saint Mary's Archives, Chimes was first published in September of 1892. At that point, it came out monthly. It has been pub­lished annually ever since. 
For the Sesquicentennial edition, edi­tors Elizabeth Casanova, class of 1994, and Cora Sandberg, class of 1994, along with their advisor Max Westler wanted to compile something special that would capture the feelings shared over the years by students and faculty of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame communi­ty. 
Westler describes the 1994 edition as, " an anthology-a best of the Chimes." And that it is. The feelings of students towards society and the world as it changed for them can be seen in poems like senior Diana Lanzillotta's, "The Black and White Picture on the Refrigerator: 1962." This is a classic poem about change. The image of a girl holding a white handkerchief and wav­ing goodbye as she departs for a new life is something that everyone can relate to in some capacity. We do not know why she is leaving and exactly where she is headed and with whom, but we do know that she is not alone. She appears to be with two younger siblings. They are on a journey together, perhaps much like one that she had taken to college. There is a great sense of wonder in this poem. It is full of a feeling of awe and repre­sents courage and youth through depar­ture and growth. These feelings are timeless. 
Casanova's poem, "Untitled," has a 1990's feel to it. It imparts a great mes­sage to the reader in a few lines. Each word has strength and meaning. A dead hand and cold wind burning in Chicago gives us a sight and sensation that allow us to feel not only sympathy but empa­thy to the homeless. Casanova takes a topic like homelessness and transforms it into a poem that is not romantic or pretty. It is as real as the issue being presented leaving the reader with a bit­ter -sweet taste. It is a true tale of the times. 
Casanova and Sandberg went back to editions from the late 40's and early 50's to find pieces that they felt would define the 1994 edition of Chimes. This, according to Westler, was an arduous process. After all, there were over 40 years to cover and room for only the best poems and stories. 
ACCENT  
Friday, January 27, 1995 page 11  
Band de Soleil returns to campus By SANDY KOEHLER to come together with a band Music Critic that was only formed two years  I I I I I I  
ago with Band de Soleil's first  I  
On October 5, 1994, Band de album, Redemption Dream, be­ I  
Solei! opene-d for the Indigo ing released for Daemon/hili Girls in an electrifying concert Recordings in September of at Stepan Center. Tonight, 1994. they are returning to Notre Dame as part of The Loft series "This record is about music which is sponsored by the and this band is about music Student Union Board. and songs and emotion," Mal­The band's singer, song­one said in her interview with writer and guitarist, Michelle Ecke.  I I I I I I I I l  
Malone has been compared to Before Band de Solei! was  I  
.Janis .Joplin and her powerful formed, Malone was with a voice and lyrics will bring ex­band named Drag the River. citement to the LaFortune Ball­She recorded her first release, room. New Experience, with this At the October concert, Mal­group but on her own label.  ~ j j t  
one's guitar reverberated After the success of her first  
throughout her music in im­release, record company  
provisations which really Artista approached her for a  
brought the crowd to life. second album. However,  
"I loved the way that Artista wanted Malone to drop  
Michelle was really able to feel Drag the River and form a new  
her music," sophomore band. Standing her ground,  
Michelle McQuistan said. Malone refused to listen and  
began touring with Drag the  
Band de Solei! is literally River after the release of her  
translated as Band of the Sun. second album, Relentless, ac­ 
Drummer, Danny Bigay, cording to Creem Magazine.  
bassist Mike Snowden, key­Since Artista became too  
boardist Marty Kearns and controlling, Malone broke with  
acoustic guitarist, Kevin Law­them and her band simultane­ 
son make up the rest of the ously as her music and touring  
band. were becoming a negative ex­ 
"Band de Solei! is a very perience.  
positive name; it's earthy and After Malone's break with  
felt good to forth with," Artista and Drag the River,  
Malone said in an interview Malone recorded three songs in  
with Haymond Ecke of Cover the studio and released them  
Magazine. "From where I on a compact disc titled For  
started I had a lot of obstacles You Not For Them.  
in front of me; a lot more when Now, with Band de Solei!, a  
I first started and the name great deal of Malone's music  
kind of helped me put every­seems to stem from her frus­ 
thing in a positive light-no pun trations with the past and her company, according to Creem request of university adminis­band, will be opening for Band intended." ordeal with Artista. However, Magazine. tration, Band de Soleil's return de Solei!. Tickets will be on While the name might be she is enjoying her successes Even though Malone will not to campus tonight is not to be sale for $4 at the door and the misleading, Malone's lyrics are more with her new start with be throwing any condoms out missed. show starts at 9 p.m. in The very deep as she is really able the band and a new record into the audience tonight at the True North, a Notre Dame Loft.  


The meetings determining which pieces to use were difficult and very important, creating a process filled with passion for the task at hand. 
"I like editorial meetings and arguing about work with the editors. I enjoy the give and take," said Westler. 
This thoughtful process and dedicated spirit of the entire Chimes team paid off in a beautiful collection. The works of Saint Mary's alumnae like Mary Pinard and Anna Monardo, who visited Saint Mary's this Fall, give us a sampling of works done by renown writers. 
Pinard, who will be visiting Saint Mary's in April, is a renown poet while Monardo is a successful author. 
The 1994 edition begins with a poem by Sister Madeleva, former Saint Mary's 
-
-

President, entitled "American Twelfth Night," It is a poem that describes the journey of the wise men through harsh conditions. This journey is much like the one that she traveled. 
Each poem, story and work of art has a message that links to the history of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
Confucius once said that, "Without knowing the force of words, it is impos­sible to know men." If this is true, then pick up your 1994 Chimes. You are sure to know men just a little bit better after doing so. 
The next edition of the Chimes will come out in the Spring. If you have a story, poem short play or art work that you would like to submit, submit it to Chimes in care of 303 Madeleva Hall no later than the Monday after mid-semes­ter break. 
-----~--­
page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS January, 27, 1995 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

ROSES ARE RED We'll take care of the rest. Spring Break! Bahamas Party Needed -former ISLI particfeants to OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered FARLEY will be all decked out, 
NOTICES facilitate one-day program ebruary
Cruise 6 Days $2791 Includes 12 at $85,900. First Floor location. VIOLETS ARE BLUE Around the halls we'll walk about. 
4-call1-7005
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Finished basement with fulllavato-We hope to get you completely SEMESTER JOB Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE NO couple need sitter on occasion-ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths THE OBSERVER HAS A plowed, earn up to $1 0/hr Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights al weekday basis. Near NO. Must on ground level. Lease back to SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU And then we'll dance in a crowd. call 289-0704 Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring have car. $5 per hour. 232-5790. owner through May, 1995. If you can make it til 2:00 (it won't 
Break Travel1-800-678-6386 Call (616) 946-0700. VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly be easy) ••cAMPUS BANDS/MUSICIANs•• NEEDED: reponsible caregiver in approaching and now is the time to We'll hit the dining hall, where the 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! our home for infant and 3 year old For Sale: Sansui Receiver, place a classified ad for your valen-food is sleezy! The Student Union Board is now PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW boys. quiet environment, conve-Technics 5-disc CD player, and tine. All Valentine's Day ads will SIEZE THE NIGHT, FARLEY! accepting demo tapes to be consid-ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 nient location. Mondays, Tuesdays, three way JVC speakers. All in per-appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's ered for the 1995 campus CD. WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Wednesdays 2:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. feet condition. $500 or best offer-classified section of The Observer Desperately seeking ride to Padre Original music only, 1 song per Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre References required. Call 289-call X0640 on Tuesday, February 14. for Spring Break. Will split gas and demo please. Turn tape and short Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights 9975. You may place your classified tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at bio into SUB, second floor $1591 Key West $2291 Day1ona Monday through Friday from Bam to x2702.
TICKETS

LaFortune, in "campus CD" box by Room with Kitchen From $129! 1-3pm. We are located on the third 
I I

February 17. Questions? Call 800-678-6386 FOR RENT floor of Lafortune. Place your ad Faster than a speeding bullet from 
I
Ryan at 288-3952 or Steve at 232 ROUND TRIP PLANE TIC CHICA-now and beat the rush! O'Malley's gun ... more powerful than 4959. Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room available for rent. 15 mins GO-ST.LOUIS FEB 10-12$65-a crippled floridan ... able to leap Oceanview Room with a Kitchen walk from campus, safe neighbor-X3236 Nothing quite shows that you care buildings (like 9 Henly Place) in a 1995...........
••cAMPUS CD $1291 Walk to best bars! Includes hood and a neat and well kept like a special valentine's Day ad in single bound ... watch out for 
Free Discount Card which will save home. $225 a month, includes use Selling BasquetB Std Tix Booklet The Observer. AUDIT MAN!! I-COMING SOON!! Miss NATURAL BORN KILLERS you $100 on food/drinksl1-800-of all utilities. Serious students pre-50, 271-19-98 last week? See it THIS WEEKEND 678-6386 !erred. Call Paul at (219)-232-2794. 
WVFI640AM 

8/1030 Fri & Sat in Cushing Hall I NEED KENTUCKY GA's. CALL P.Bradydogg,
NEW MUSIC FOR THE NEW 
SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for HOMES FOR RENT MATT AT x2153. What exactly was that message
YEAR-NOW ON THE AIR 
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out many positions (including summer). NEAR CAMPUS on the computer that you were Pandora's Books 233-2342 Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits 232-2595 I NEED BC TIX Call Steve 272-hiding from us? 
Sound Techs Needed! 
ND ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m-sat (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal 4021 Student Activities is now hiring
9-3 sundays discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc-Oakhill Condo for RENT sound techs. Applications 
tors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet for the 1995-1996 school year. Need Marquette GA's Proctor and Gambled called 
available in the Student Activities 
Term Papers typed staff, + other positions. For more For information call: 273-9438. Call Chris x3767 Monday,Chris. Hey, there's 
Office, 315 LaFortune. 
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing information call:(206)634-0469 always work at Shakey's. 
Deadline Friday, February 3. 
273-4824 ext.V55842 1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR I need two tickets for the Kentucky CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT basketball game. Call x4015 if you 
SMC-ND 1995 SUMMER PRO-
Pick Up The $20,000 Check in this CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-have some!! I!! San Antonio Girl, 
GRAMS IN LONDON AND ROME. 
year's campus telephone directory. Earn up to $2,000+/month working 6551 "Have I done something to offend
TRAVEL IN IRE, SCOT, ENG, 
The yellow pages are reinvented on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com-4 tix needed you?"
FRANCE, GER. SWITZ, & !TAL Y. 
and more fun than ever before! Pick panies. World travel (Hawaii, ND v. Kentucky ---Santa
COURSES IN BUEC, ED, HIST, up your directory at your Residence Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). FOR SALE DESPARATE ITALIAN. INFO-ORG MEETING 
Hall or Student Activities in Seasonal and full-time employment call1845 Walsh,
FEB.6, AT 6:30PM CARROLL LaFortune Student Union if you available. No experience neces-Computer Monitor-Acer-IBM 
HALL-SMC.CALL PROF. A.R. have not already received one, and sary. For more information call1-Compatible-Brand New-$200-$$$$ NEED KENTUCKY GAME You beat me twice in Darts last 
BLACK 284-4460 
you could be loaded this spring! 206-634-0468 ext. C55842 Jim 4-1059 TIX. CALL MIKE @277-1704 $$$$ weekend. You will never win again.
(OFC) OR 272-3726 (HOME) 
Bridget's open 8-3 HELP 1-year-old Sega w/2 joysticks and You brought in a ringer and she is 
ATTENTION: Fri Emily Lord Sonic 2 -good condition, killing my
COMUTER BLUES PERSONAL the only reason you won.
Meg, Jess, Tiff, Amy, Mo, Kara, Sat little Milton ibm compat. 486/50 w/ cd studies, $70 obo. Call Mark at 255­
Jen, Shan, Tiern, Bridget, Coli, 
need sound hooked to cd 3545 David Mamet's I hope the Knicks never win again 
and ... 

& basic tutoring AMERICAN BUFFALO and Scottie "Chair thrower" Pippen 
Mucci, T J, Lips, Krafve, Andy, 
ILOST & FOUND I 

after6,jim 1 Roundtrip airline ticket to Ft. Directed by Stephen Susco gets traded to your sorry, sorry
Matt,Bakes,Jake,Bob,Brenden 
Lauderdale 3/11 returning 3/16. February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm team.
and Ben ... Found, a man's wedding ring. Call STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN-Call X3704. $300, negotiable. Washington Hall Mainstage POP FARLEY's back can you
Becky@ 2291 to identify. AGE PAINTING CREWS, Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at Support the Beeler-Hipp 
believe? 

THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR Mac POWERBOOK Duo 4/80 the LaFortune Information Desk Scholarship Fund. 
You'll never guess what's up our SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED with floppy drive. 273-9213 
Produced by the Notre Dame Go to Senior Bar on Friday night 
sleeves!

WANTED TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED, Student Players All dressed up, we'll dance and 
PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU-LOSE WEIGHT FOR SPRING •• note : play contains harsh pro-Tulsa people are hypersensitive.
drink beer, Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break DENT. BREAK! No diets/drugs/exercise! fanity and some violent/adult 
Get wild get crazy because the Sailing Cruise! Free brochure Fabulous Herbal Tablets: guaran-themes Tulsa still rocks. 
time is here! 1 (800)359-9808 teed results! Kelly (800)209-2150 Come dressed your best, 
-
-

HE T. DWARD S ALL LAYERS 
prer:1ent 
an Ayn Rand play 
th 

A comedy-drama in three actcJ 
Performances are at 8:00p.m. Friday, January 27 and Saturday, January 28 in Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information desk, and at the door. Admission: $4°0 
Be a part of the biggecJt murder triaL to hit New York J high cJociety in the 1940J. A;ury wiLL he drawn/rom the audience, do you may decide the playJ ending. 
Friday, January 27, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 



Hoops teams thriving in football-crazed Alabama 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
MONTGOMERY, Ala. 

If this keeps up, folks around here might just put football recruiting on the back burner for a while. Maybe they'll real­ize basketball is more than an annoyance to pass the time until spring practice. 
On back-to-hack nights, Alabama whipped defending national champion Arkansas by 18 points -at Bud Walton Arena, no less -and Auburn knocked off another Final Four team, Florida. 
Not bad for·a state where col­lege football is king and basket­ball is only tolerated. 
"Because Alabama and Auburn have been so strong in football for so long, that's always going to get a lot of play," Auburn coach Cliff Ellis 
• 
BALLET-Instruction based n traditional Russian tech· nique. Introduction to all levels students being instructed cording to their level. mester-Jong course that ts Tuesdays from 6:30-7:30 PM and Saturdays from 10:00 in Rockne Rm. 301. fee is $35.00 and you must egister in advance at HecSports. A demonstration 
be held on Sunday, January 29 at 12:30 PM is Rockne 301. Call HecSports at 1-6100 for more info. 
sion than a year ago. 
The Tide retained all five starters from the team that went 20-10 and reached the second round of the NCAA tour­nament last year. After spend­ing much of the season on the periphery of the Top 25, Alabama should be in the rank­ings next week with its victory over Arkansas. 
"I realize that was a good game, a good win and a quality road win," coach David Hobbs said. "But in the final analysis, it's only one win. It counts the same as every other game in the league." 
Despite renewed interest at Auburn, the Tigers are averag­ing less than 5,000 per game. Alabama (13-4, 4-2) has yet to attract a sellout crowd, though attendance has picked up since the SEC schedule began. 
Tuesdays and Thursdays 7:00-10:00. The climbing is located in the Memorial and anyol}e IntJRrest..l ed in using .it must attend orientation session. For info call RecSports at 1-6100. Notre Dame Martial lnstiute -Tae Kwon Do and Jitsu beginner's practices this Thursday, Jan. 26 5:30-7:30 in Rm 219 Rock and Sunday, Jan. 29, 6:30-8: in 219 rockne. Advanced tices Friday 6-8 and saturd lOam-12. For more info Jamie at 1186 or Kyle at 3334. 
said Thursday, one night after his team beat the 23rd-ranked Gators 77-71. "But that doesn't mean we don't play great bas­ketball in this state." 
Never was that more appar­

ent than Tuesday and Wednesday. 
Alabama got things started with a stunning 88-70 win over ninth-ranked Arkansas, which had won 26 home games in a row, including all 24 played at two-year-old Bud Walton Arena. The Crimson Tide dis­played deft shooting and icy poise in the face of the Razorbacks' "40 minutes of hell," and a record crowd of 20,268. 
Auburn, which already had beaten Arkansas at home on Jan. 14, made it two in a row over Final Four teams with the victory over Florida on Wednesday night. Even Ellis admitted he was shocked at how well the Tigers (11-5 over­all, 4-3 Southeastern Conference) were playing in what was expected to be a rebuilding season. 
How bad were the Tigers? Well, they've had only one win­ning season since 1988, which also was the last time they made the NCAA tournament. Last season, even with future NBA players Wesley Person and Aaron Swinson in the lineup, they finished 11-17 overall and won only three of 16 SEC games. 
This season was expected to be worse, with a new coach and 

only one returning player who even scored in double figures. But a couple of junior-college transfers, point guard Moochie Norris and forward Chris Davis, have made a big impact. And there's more effort, more aggressiveness and more cohe-

X-COUNTRY UD.1i.J.U'! 
SKI CLINICS • The clinics be held on the Notre Dame Golf Course and the cost for each .. Jp~~pll.' clink is $5.oo with equipment ti Special rental available for $2.00 addi-Friday, .·· m9re 
t•

tional. The clinics are January ,,~t~t»ns . ·~w-~"'~·•:,.>*'1'1:'<; J,)~2$ or .i..e.c~Smi)J'ts. 28 at 11:00 AM· deadline January '";;,;,BENGAL ;.•·training January 26; February 4 at 2:00.. yp1;1r hllllre~rf:>,se occurs ~llily ..t 4:00 PM at the PM-deadline February 2. RecSportsat 1-6100 ACC. 'A.iiyol1e il1terested . Hegister in advance at ·:fk> ''itt · should please contact Jeff RecSports. For more info call CROSS~P()UN'l'JlX SKJ Go(idard,~t 2817-8041. 1-6100. RENTALS~ Rentals are avail· 
. . ·. CLIMBING WALt. 'ScHED-LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS • able to students, faculty, and ULE-The Climbing Wall will be Late-Night Olympics is an all· staff. ·'Rent skis, })oots 1,1nd open for use beginning Sunday, night sports extravaganza of poles. No reservations neces· January 22. The hours will be competing Notre Dame 11nd sary. 4:30.5:30 on .... -5:00, and 
r----------------------------------------------, 

z

MACARONIAUFROMAGE )> 
(EAT WITH GUSTO FOR ABOUT 51¢ PER SERVING.) 
2 cups macaroni (pinwheels are fun) 1 cup milk 1 cup sharp cheddar (grated) 3 tbs flour 
->­
1/2 stick butter 1 tsp pepper 1 tsp Worcestershire (if you like) 1 tsp salt 
Cook macaroni in 5 cups salted, boiling water for 15 
minutes or until al dente. Drain. In a separate pot, melt 
butter and mix in flour over low heat. Then, stir in milk 
until smooth. Add cheese, salt, pepper and Worcestershire. 
Stir well. Smother macaroni. Serves 4. 

Note: For your nutritional convenience, ~it~bank 
Classic cards are accepted at over 12 mllllon 
locations, including grocery stores. 
.. 

~. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 27, 1995 
• fENCING 




Fencing teams head East to face top competition 
ByJOE VILLINSKI 
Spans Writer 
After spending the last two weekends in the midwest, the Notre Dame fencing team heads east, putting their unblemished record on the line. 
This will only be the first of three consecutive weekends that finds the Irish challenging some of the toughest competi­tion in the east. 
Making these next three weekends even more 

seventh in women's foil. With St. John's returning almost ev­ery starter from that team, the Redmen will go a long way in marking that bench for Coach DeCicco. 
"St. John's foil team is proba­bly the toughest one we are going to face all year." Brunner added. "They are well-trained, work hard, and have excellent coaching." 
Two years have now gone by since Columbia won the na­tional championship and they continue to be solid. Columbia finished fifth in men's foil and eighth in sabre at the national championships last year. 
"They have a strong team overall," DeCicco commented. 
Host Rutgers finished 20th overall last year at the champi­onships, but it is not as a team that they pose a threat. 
"Rutgers is more of a 
challenging is that the r--r-----------------------,----,
Irish now posses some­thing that usually resides out east: the national championship. And as the Irish are already finding out, teams shoot for you dif­ferently when your at the top. 
"Teams are always psyched to fence us now." foil captain Stan Brunner said. 
It will be no different when the Irish travel to 
' · this weekend to nee Columbia, St. ohn's and host "This weekend be the toughest one 
o far," epee captain ~.-....• auuo::a•"' de Bruin said. "This weekend is a nchmark as to if we ill be contenders for e national cham­onship once again," 
's head coach Mike said. 
: Headlining the eom­at Rutgers will a strong St. John's am which is on the 
e. Last year at the 
!BLllJIH:U championships, Redmen placed sec-

OPENING SOON! MOVIES 10 
Featuring ..... 
Hollywood's 
Newest Releases at Great Prices!!!! 
The Largest Theatre Complex In The Mishawaka & South Bend Area 
"d5 
, --d.£00 a c ;.:: cil ;::lo ;;;. "~ .:.:a ~ 
.... ~=: 
cJ) j ] ~ & ~ 
u.s. 20 
Mishawaka 
threat with individuals than with the whole team," DeCicco added. 
Following the meet last week­end the women's record now stands at a perfect 9-0, while the men sport a 7-0 mark. Keeping these streaks alive will prove to be a test for the Irish. 
"A week of good practice is needed to do well out east," DeCicco said. 
According to de Bruin, this seems to be the case. 
"Everybody has been working really hard on bout situations, concentration, and focusing well," de Bruin added. 
As the Irish embark upon a journey known as the March Run this weekend, they know they must be ready in order to defend their crown. · 
t 



FACULTY UPPER ROOM 
SERIES 

"FAITH AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE" 
An opportunity to reflect with colleagues and spouses/guests on the integration of spiritual concerns and professional challenges and demands. 
THURSDAY 
2 February 1995 
Faculty Dining Room ofthe South Dining Hall Dinner at 7:00p.m.-Discussion until9:00 p.m. 
Speaker James A. McAdams Professor of Government "Teaching the Children of Light" • 
Reservations: Return the form received in the mail or simply call Sharon Harwell at 1-8607 by Tuesday, January 31. 
A donation of$5.00 at the door or by check made out to Campus Ministry 
~~can help defray the expenses of the dinner.  ~  
Co-Sponsored by:  
•::::::·.=  Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns  IE!  

nd in men's foil and~~-------------~==============~=~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::::::::~ 
itfJ GRF;.)'f 'YAL.L 
JJ.~~~ CHINESE AMERICAN RESTAURANT &COCKTAIL LOUNGE 
~ Au1h~ntic Szechuan, Mandarin & Hunan Cuisine! 
Jan. 2; • 11:30 a.m. ·3:00p.m.
SPECIAL CHINESE $895 
Jan. 30 • s:oo p.m. • e:oo p.m.
NEW YEAR BUFFET Jan. 31 • 5:00 p.m. ·8:00p.m. 
All YOU CAN EAT Children Under 10 Half Price 
S., South Bend (next to Randall's 



GIVE ME A BREAK! 
,SPRING BREAK 
Hang out in: 

oCANCUN o$ourH PAillE lltANI oBAHAMAI ofr• • YERI 
Call New Horizons Travel ''Your Party Planners" 
I.. 
.-
(800)639,4674 or (219)273,4934 
51529 Bittersweet Rd., Granger, IN Call our 24 hour hotline for the latest specials: (219)277-9749 
Monday Jan.30 
8:00pm 


LaFortune Ballroom 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
Busy weekend for SMC swimmers 
By ARWEN DICKEY Putting the ball in the uu"'A"'LI Sporrs Writer turned out to be the tllflr.....~n;;..l By ANGELA OLSEN against Illinois Benedictine and freestyle events," said Janson, 
with Saint Mary's shooting Sports Writer DePauw. "We could come out on top." Missing the bucket was the 29 percent for the entire Coach Janson predicts the This weekends busy schedule ownfall of the 3-10 Saint while Bethel shot 37 nAircAntJ Saint Mary's swim coach matchup with Chicago will be has not slowed down the Belles ary's basketball team last The Belles playe'd Greg Janson characterizes this close. "Last year they beat us practicing habits this past
ight. The Bethel College Pilots ~efense and e?"al1ed weekend as the "biggest step­by two," he said. week. ew by the Belles, 66-52. m turnover$·/' ,.,,;., ·.· ping stone for getting us 
The meets on Saturday will "We continued with our nor­
Although Saint Mary's shot Junior · forward through the rest of the season." 
also pose a challenge to the mal training," said junior tri­
18 percent In the first half and Taubenheim led Saint The Belles (1-3) begin their 
Belles. "Kalamazoo is going to captain Jennifer Mitchell, "We
ethel shot 26 percent, the with 19 points, and ................... 
busy weekend tonight at be a pretty tough meet, but we should be able to hang in
took only a 24-21 half-forward Julie McGill 
7:00pm in Rolfs Aquatic Center 
will probably score big in our there."
lead. The game was tight scored in ... 
in a dual meet against the Uni­
the last two and a half ;;; Another high 
versity of Chicago. 
when the Belles took Belles was the 
Tomorrow morning the Belles
1cmmc•~s that cost them. pulled in by junior 
will travel to Kalamazoo
njuries also plagued Saint Barbara Howells. 
's. Sophomore guard Head coach Marvin W College for a dual meet begin­Kopperud sprained her said, "It was nip and ning at 11:00 am. The Belles , and junior guard Lori whole game. We had e·J(ce.lletlttl will then return to Rolfs in the dis also had an ankle opportunities, but we evening to host a double dual didn't cash in." which begins at 7:00 pm 

10 BEDS (greattan)  I  
10 BooTHS (accelerate+ 1 J and protect)  I I  
:  FOR ONLY $50  :  

L---------------~ 
Two Convenient Locations Close to Campus! 
South Bend -University Commons 
(across from University Park Mall) 
Phone 272-7653 

Mishawaka-Grape and McKinley 
(located near Kmart) 
Phone 256-9656 

§"'~ ~~,t~ cud9~~ ar-e?/w-?lt h a JbcuM a/td'!?3~ ceM~1? ~ 44o/ 


Afftz/¥3 to/WO-~ed'/o-~npenw~v"eJ adftio/~ o/o-tV decu~v~Yzd. 

..................................... -... 
·~-·--· 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 27, 1995 
• MEN'S TENNIS 


Gophers avenge NCAA tourney loss to Notre Dame 
Bayless was pleased with will play the number one, six, Pietrowski and Flanigan in eight, sixteen, and twenty their first career matches. teams in the country. Bayless 
"Flanigan got off to a good says he feels the team will be start in his first match, and improved by the tough compe­Pietrowski played well under tition. the pressure Of it being his first Next for Coach Bayliss is to match. . . . He (Pietrowski) take Ryan Simme and Mike pulled himself together in the Sprouse to Dallas next weekend third set, and began to initiate for the National Rolex indoor the action." singles and doubles champi­
Bayless said his team was in onship. The top thirty-two a position to win until the end, players in the country are in­and he hopes the match will be vited to the event. The next a wake up call for the team. In Notre Dame match is February the next three weeks, the Irish 7 at Michigan State. 

WOODY All[N'S NfW COMfOY IS THHOAST OfTH[ TOWN. 
"A BRIGHT, ENERGETIC COMEDY! 
The kind of shar~dged farce Woody. Allen has always done best." 
-Janet Maslin. THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"DAZZLING 

4  FUN!"  
jf.K  Pelcr  Trovers.  
ROLLING STONE  

CINEMA AT Friday & Salurday 
'lnterracial ieelationships 
-When Two Worlds Meet ­with 
U.C. BERKELEY -ETHNIC STUDIES 
ByB.J.HOOD Sporrs Wrirer 
Notre Dame tennis coach Bob Bayliss predicted the Notre Dame-Minnesota tennis match would go down to the wire. His prediction came true on Thursday as Minnesota de­feated Notre Dame 4-3. 

Minnesota won the doubles point by winning the first two doubles matches. Bayliss said Ryan Simme and John J. O'Brien played well in winning the third doubles match 8-3. 

·r 
"We played very poorly at number one and two doubles and were very passive and made a lot of mistakes, but played a great number three doubles," Bayliss said. "After winning the doubles point, all they (Minnesota) had to do was split the rest of the matches, and that is what they did." 
Ryan Simme lost to Ross Loel at the number one position 5-7, 6-4, 6-4. Mike Sprouse de­feated Lars Hjarrand 7-5, 4-6, 7-5 at number two. At number three, Stefan Tfvetkov beat Joh,n J. O'Brien 6-7, 7-6, 6-3. 
Bayliss was pleased with O'Brien's performance despite the setback. 
"I thought O'Brien played his heart out today," Bayliss said. 
On Sprouse he adde,d, "Mike Sprouse showed poise and courage in defeating one of the best players in the country." 
Eric Donley of Minnesota de­feated Jason Pun at number four, Notre Dame's Jakub Pietrowski beat Ben Gabler at number five, and at the number six position Notre Dame's Steve Flanigan was victorious over Roberto Rutili. 
Spring Break Seininars March 12-18, 1995 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACBITASENUNAR -Service Learning at one of ten sites in the Appalachian region -One credit Theology MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR -Work in the fields with migrant workers -Assist agencies that serve migrants -One credit Theology ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR -Examine recycling, solid waste centers directly -Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns -One credit, Chicago-based seminar WASHINGTON SEMINAR Our Violent Society -Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -Service and political awareness opportunities -One-credit Theology or Government  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Applications Due: Jan. 31, 1995  
TERRY P. WILSON 




-----------------------------....., 
Friday, January 27, 1995 page 17 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

Bowen 
continued from page 20

Irish defeat Phoenix 
By K.C. GOYER when Notre Dame freshman Letitia currently leads the Sports Writer Kari Hutchinson stole the ball team in assists and has one of and coasted downcourt to score 
the all time best assist to 
All was quiet in Green Bay on a fast break. turnover ratios. when the Notre Dame women's "Kari had the big steal which "Its really impressive for a basketball team left the floor. iced the game for us," com­forward to have more assists When the game started before mented Irish head coach Muffet than the point guard," McGraw a rambunctious crowd at the McGraw. "Beth and Katryna said, "Which shows what an Phoenix Sports Center did most of the scoring." unselfish player she is." Wednesday night, the Unlike the seasoned Irish, Teammates and coaches University of Wisconsin-Green Green Bay lost composure at alike cite Bowen's work ethic 
Bay boasted an undefeated 7-0 this point and spent the game's as her most admirable quality. 
home record. Then came the final seconds fouling Notre Irish, breaking the streak with Dame's best free throw shoot­"She expects a lot from her­a 67-56 victory. self," McGraw said, "And she
er, Morgan, who was 10-10 Carey Poor opened the game doesn't quit until she gets it
from the line. with two buckets in the key. "We played well down the right." After that, eaeh team member stretch," added McGraw. "We With only 3 upperclassmen contributed to the score as if in kept our poise." on the roster, the team has a sequence. However, Green Bay Notre Dame out-rebounded particular need for Bowen's remained fierce, keeping the W-GB 41-26, led by Letitia special kind of leadership. margin near six points through­Bowen with 10 boards. Bowen "Letitia leads by example," out the first half. McGraw said, "She's the hard­
also chipped in nine points,The Irish were trailing 54-50 leaving her six points shy of the est worker we have and the when the Katryna Gaither -1000 point mark. younger players learn from 
Beth Morgan tea party began. The Irish will host Wisconsin­her." After four unanswered baskets Milwaukee on Saturday night.by the dangerous duo, the Irish Notre Dame has won its last And for those she leaves be­found themselves with an un­hind, fellow co-captain Carey
five games at home and has an easy four point lead. 11-7 overall mark, including a Poor says it best, The W-GB fans were attempt­"Its been a privilege to play
perfect 7-0 in conference play. The Obs••rvsoiAobsrt ing to rally their team, but the The game will be at 7:00 at the on the same team with Letitia. noise stopped with 1:10 left She's been a great role model." 
J.A.C.C. arena. 
Letitia Bowen has earned her way into the Irish recordbook with a rare combination of tenacity, talent, and leadership ability. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Growing Up Is Hard To Do 
After I graduated from kindergarten, I remember feeling like I had joined the ranks of the grown-ups. Then, I went to the first grade and to a different school which even included giants, called eighth graders, and I realized that I had a lot of growing up to do. It has been twenty­four years since I entered the first grade. 
Over the past two and a half decades, there have been many times when 
•

I have thought that I had finally grown-up, and just as many times when I realized I had growing-up to do. 
As a recently ordained Holy Cross priest in a community with other 
Holy Cross priests and brothers who have been around a lot longer than I have and have seen and experienced a lot ofchanges, a lot of pain, and a lot ofjoy, I am reminded that although I have experienced changes, pain, and joy, my experience is limited. God willing, there is 
more to come. 
I have been reminded that the real world is bigger than my hometown, bigger than Notre Dame (during January and February, this is 
particularly consoling), and bigger than me. 
Not long after Jesus departed, some ofhis followers began to 
understand that they were being welcomed by Jesus to recognize that the world is bigger than Jerusalem, bigger than Judea, and bigger than them. Without watering down the Gospel, the early Christians were called to appreciate and welcome people with different life experiences 
and to appreciate the limitless love of God. St. Paul urged the Church 
to expand its vision and enter into the lives of people who, until Jesus, 
were thought to be outside ofsalvation. 
Are there some people who are thought to be outside ofsalvation today, because of part of who they are, their experiences, and circumstances beyond their control? 
Are there people who, because of sexual orientation or perceived sexual 
orientation-are ignored or treated like they are evil or have a disease? 
Are there people so afraid ofother people with experiences and feelings 
different than their own that they harass the other people and spread rumors about the other people based on their sexual orientation or their perceived sexual orientation? 
Are there people who are hurt by this? 
Unfortunately, the answer is yes. Unfortunately, there are people all over this country, in the Church, and at Notre Dame who have a lot of growing up to do. 
The Church calls us to grow up. Regardless of sexual orientation, God has created all of us out of love. The Gospel is challenging all of us in that it calls us, regardless ofsexual orientation, to a life of freedom and discipline. We are not called to condone actions no matter what . they are. That's part ofgrowing up, too. 
It may be difficult to understand people who have experiences different than we do. Growing up is hard to do. As a Church, as people of God, we are called to challenge each other and care for each other, regardless ofsomething like sexual orientation. 
Bob Dowd, CS. C 
CANDLEMAS 
Feast ofthe Presentation ofthe Lord 
Thursday, February 2 
5:00 p.m. Mass 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart ALL WELCOME! 
You are invited to bring candles to the Basilica, where they will be blessed 
and carried in procession from the Lady Chapel. 
FOURTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Jan. 28  5:00p.m.  Rev. Stephen Newton, C.S.C.  
Sun. Jan. 29  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C.  

... 
.. 
I I 
1 
I j 
~ 


~----------------------------------------------------------·----------~--~------------------------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, January 27, 1995 
~.._ • HOCKEY 








Irish hockey looks to climb out of last place 

By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
If losing is a disease, the Notre Dame hockey team is currently suffering from the "Black Plague." 
It has been that kind of sea­son for the Irish, owners of a lackluster 6-18-2 record and sole possession of last place in the CCHA. The squad will attempt to gain some kind of respectability this weekend, as they travel to Lake Superior State tonight and to Ferris State on Saturday. 
Despite the team's dismal record and being in the midst of a four game losing streak, believe it or not, Notre Dame has started to play better hock­ey of late. The scores of last weekend's matchups against Michigan (9-3) and Michigan State (8-3) were deceiving as the Irish played stride for stride with the national powers for two periods before folding in the end. 
"Notre Dame is definitely an improved team from the first time we played them," said leg­endary Michigan coach Red Berenson following Saturday's victory over the Irish. "If they continue to improve like they have, they will cause some problems for teams in the fu­ture." 
On the surface, one might think that Red had been out in the sun too long (hence, his nickname), or that he was smoking something other than a cigarette. However, that is not the case. Not after he watched the so-called "lowly" Irish play his No. 2 ranked Wolverines off their feet for the first two periods on Saturday. 
Indeed, the Irish have enjoyed a slight improvement, thanks largely to the emergence of freshman goaltender Matt Eisler and to a veteran defense 
• led by juniors Garry Gruber and Davide Dal Grande and sopho­mores Brian Welch and Ben Nelsen. 
However, for Notre Dame to 
'95-'96 Only 2 Houses Left 
•4 
and 5 bedroom 

•Security 
Systems 

•Fully 
Furnished



-
258-9996 Pat McKelvey $100 off 
first month's rent with this ad 

.. 
... 
truly get over. the hump and gain some respect, they must have a strong outing tonight at Lake Superior and again on Saturday against Ferris State. 
"These next two games are very important to us," said Eisler following Saturday's loss to Michigan. "It would give us a real confidence boost to come away with a win." 
It won't be easy. True, Lake Superior has struggled this year and enters tonight's matchup with a 7-10-5 overall record, including a disappointing 5-8-3 mark in CCHA play. But the Lakers are the defending national champions, and they boast the league's top penalty killing team at nearly eighty­eight percent. 
The goaltender position has not been the problem this sea­son for LSSU. Freshman John Grahame stopped 20 of 22 shots in last weekend's loss to Miami, and sophomore Sean Kulick, who shares time at that position, ranks second in the CCHA with a 2.58 goals against average. 
However, the Laker offense has been anemic at times this season, scoring just eleven goals during the squad's cur­rent five game losing streak. Junior right wing Sean Tsallaire, one of the heroes in last year's dream season, leads the team with 12 goals and 11 Appert has enjoyed too much success at goaltender, so Irish forwards Jamie Ling (31 points) and Tim Harberts (23) should pad their point totals this week­end. 
A pair of victories this week­end would do wonders for recognition and respect in the CCHA. It would also determine if this disease has a cure. 
assists, while junior Keith Aldridge has contributed 17 points from the defensive end. 
Ferris State enters Saturday's game on a bit of a roll after pulling off a sweep of Western Michigan last weekend. The Bulldogs currently stand at 10­12-2, including a 7-9-2 mark in the CCHA, but are just four points out of fourth place. 
Right wing Tim Christian leads the team with 33 points and ranks third in the confer­ence with 18 goals, while cen­ter Val Passarelli also ranks among the league leaders with 29 points so far this season. 
On the defensive side of the puck, the Bulldogs could be in trouble. Neither freshman Jeff Blashill or sophomore Seth 

DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD OPHOMORES! DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD Apply now for the position of JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND 1996 CHAIRPERSON Applications at LaFortune Info. Desk Deadline: 5:00p.m., Mon~, jan. 30 Questions? Call Shannon Kasten at 4-4556 Interviews will be held Feb. 1st & 2n d DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD  


Meghan Beeler/Colleen Hipp S ch o Ia r s h i p ·F u ~ d Benefit 
Free Food Night TONIGHT at 9:00 

Only Five dollars at the door and any additional donations are welcomed! 
Come listen to Sunshine Wine and win some door prizes with your classmates to benefit agreat cause! 

Friday, January 27, 1995 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS 


DILBERT 
BILL WATTERSON 
. t\I'{'V S\J'V\)ENL'{. 11-\t. Ef>.-1<.1\-\ OPtJ~t.\:> \JI'.' 'f.IM\..\~G \WUI.t'i'SI.'(. ti!Ot. 1\JI<\~1..8) 1-\\]•,\l <WtR 1-\Ho\.'3 !)<)'tiN \We St-1\Cl\::\NG Cl-\t>..'iM \JI'\\11. \\E SP\A'S\\t.ll \N\Cl 1\.\t. t-<\0\..Tt.l-\ MN~t-111\ 1'-1 1\\t. 1'\..P...~E\S CCl'i<.t., 
't-1\\ERt. \IE S\..0\NL'( t-A\:UEtl BEtoRt. IGN\IIN(; IN 1'-SI'ITIING FIRt..IS~LL Cll= Gl<fJ>...<;E! 
11/\t v I 
~:s 

TI-\E FINANCE. GUYS WON'T DARE CUT TI-\1\T PROJ"ECT f"\Y PLOY WILL ~ SPARE us fROM ANY I 

SCOTT ADAMS 
TELL ME AGI'\IN 
0.JI-\AT YOUR 
PROTECT IS 
ABOUT. Tf-1£..'( 
PMUC 
WE.'VE. ~E.E.N 1\SI<..ED TO RE.DUCE OUR BUDGET. ~ 
~ 

I'f"\ GOING TO OFFE.R ~ TO CUT YOUR PROJECT :.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Bleat 
4 Abandon 
9 Falsehood 
13 Hosp. chart 
14 Computer 
scooter 
t5lron Eagle of 
W.W.II 
16 Sin 
17 Built (on) 
18 Dream girl of 
song 
19 Start of a quip 
22 Roger of the 
balcony 
23 Get high marks 
24 Failure 
26 Novelist­
Mae Brown 
27 Despicable ones 30 Next in line 31 Reproducer 33lnferior 35 More of the quip 37 Optimally 
40 Mideast river to the Mediterranean 
43 Rough finish 44 Passed 46-College, 
N.C. 48 Pivot 49 Bind 50 Capri, to Loren 51 End of the quip 56 Superior to 57 Relish 

58 Treasury dept. 59 Improve a rough draft 60 Bomb site of 1943-45 61 Peeples of 
"Fame" 62 H.S.T. or D.D.E. 63 "The Minister's 
Wooing" author 64 "Polly" playwright John 
DOWN 
1 Pager 2 Kind of dancing 3Accept 4Sting 5 Scout of renown 
6 Designer Gernreich 1 Exploits a Madhouse 9 Actress Garr 10 Made alterations 11 Spiritless 12Vision 15 Performing 20 In a corner 21 Skating extravaganza 25 Desiccate 
'7+.=-t:+.:-i 27 Terrier =+::+.:=.eB8=+=~ 28 Pathet­(Communist group) 

29 "I Can Get­You Wholesale" ('62 musical) 
30 Most popular 32 '90 and '95, e.g. 34 Solo in space 36 Three, in Capri 37 Mountain tree 38 Walter Mitty's 
creator 39 "Road" star 

45 Is noncommittal 47 Oppose 49Some U.S. 
agents 50-fell swoop 54 Sinclair rival 
55 Onetime flight attendant, slangily 
56 3-D art pioneer 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
-


sored by ·the Department of Music, will perform a concert of Mozart, Faure' and Dvorak on Sunday, January 29 at .2. p.m. in Annenburg Auditorium, located in the Snite Mvseum otArt. 
<'lese Van Requests: In order to drive or request to drive a esc van, students are re([!Jired to attend a van training seminar which lasts approximately 40 minutes. Tpey will need to bring their driver's license to the meet­ing so it ca.n be copied for CSC files. The van training classes will be held at the Center for Social Concerns in the muJtipurpose room at 5 p.m. on the following dates: tuesday. Jan. 31, Wednesday. Feb. 1, Wednesday, Feb. 8, t;oesday, ¥arch 7tWed.nesday. March 8, and Tuesday. 

NORTH Salmon Gyros Szechuan Shrimp Stir­Pry 
WANTED!! People who like movies People who like books People who like to w~ite 
(aVtd do it well) call K~ista @ 631-4540 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~"+-'+'-i~"-1 
.;..+:0+:-~ 
loolor.7r.:-E-l 
~:-+-:-+=i 

Andrew Sullivan J"a 
February 2 Hesburgh 7:30pm .JiV 
mJDINT UNION IOAID 

~--------­



SPORTS 
page 20 Friday, January 27, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBALl 


By TIM SHERMAN Assistant Sports Editor 
With the arrival of the much­heralded Felipe Lopez of St. John's and Georgetown's Allen Iverson, many observers of Big East basketball claim that the conference is rapidly changing over to a more run-and-gun style. They say gone are the days when Big East big men dominated the scene. Try telling that to Notre Dame's Pat Garrity and Boston College's Danya Abrams. 
This will be the first match­up of the two young big men, but with Abrams being just a sophomore and the Irish enter­ing the Big East next season, it will not be the last. 
Garrity, a 6'9" freshman, has been a major surprise for John MacLeod's Irish. He has shown both a soft stroke from the out­side and a solid inside game. Both, especially the latter, will be tested tomorrow, as Garrity will square off against the Abrams-led Eagles. 
Abrams, who stands just 6'7' but carries 265 lbs., has shown maturity far above that of an average sophomore. He has had to. 
The only starter returning from last year's Elite Eight squad, Abrams was picked to be one of coach Jim O'Brien's tri-captains in just his second season. That designation mat­ters little off the court to the 1993 New York "Mr. Basketball". 
"I just go out and work hard and do whatever it takes to win," said Abrams. "I lead by example." 
Thus far, that example has been a model which most play-

Bowen steps up for Irish 
Senior forward close to reaching 1,000 point mark 
By K. C. GOYER Sports Writer 
"Relentless." 

When asked to describe Letitia Bowen in one word, .. Coach Muffet McGraw was 
quick to respond. 
Examples abound. As a sophomore, she played in an entire overtime game against Georgetown University without rest, and was unstoppable as she pulled down 18 rebounds and scored 6 of the last 7 points to win the game. The following year in a game against Butler University, Bowen picked up her 4th foul a little over 2 min­utes into the second half. She didn't foul out, but in that half alone scored 16 ponts, grabbed 7 rebounds, and scored the winning basket at the buzzer. 
Letitia Caye Bowen, a 6'0" forward from Buchanan, MI. surpassed the Notre Dame ca­reer rebounding mark last Saturday. She currently has a total of 866 boards and count­ing. Bowen holds the record for the most rebounds in one game, grabbing 18 twice in her career. She has been the team's leading rebounder since her sophomore year, and in one season was the team's leading scorer and shot blocker as well. 
On advice to other players about rebounding, Bowen is in­spirational. 
"There's no certain tech­nique. Always feel like you can get the ball no matter where it is," Bowen said, "Its all desire. You just gotta go get it." 
Bowen will most likely score her 1,OOOth point on Saturday 
when  the  Irish  host  the  
University  of  Wisconsin­ 
Milwaukee.  The only senior on  

the team, she has the most ca­reer points with 994. 
As a freshman Bowen's first challenge was to move her game from the inside to the perimeter. 
"Letitia did a great job adjust­ing to a role as small forward," Coach McGraw said, "She has worked hard and improved in ball handling and passing." 
see BOWEN I page 17 


of note...
TENNIS DROPS OPENER 
Scottie Pippen was suspended for ranked Minnesota squad at the Eck 
The Irish men lost a close 4-3 decision to a 
one game and fined $6,000 for ... Pavillion yesterday. 
throwing a chair onto the court at 
~ 
f 
the United Center on Tuesday.
t see page 16 
f NO TENNIS I 
r 
~ 
I 
t 




