
Thursday, February 23, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 93 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Further protests could warrant sanctions 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
The lwads of the Notre Dame l'lmptnrs of Pax Christi USA and Amnesty International say the Office of Student Affairs may -;ubjnet their groups to disci­plinary sanctions if they con­I inue to disobey university rules a bout campus demonstrations. 
Members of those two groups lwlpnd organize two protests Parlier this month over the uni­versity's decision to prohibit Cays and Lesbians of Notre Dam1~ and Saint Mary's ((;[,ND/SMC) from meeting in I he University Counseling Cen­ll'r. The first protest took place 1:cb. 2. on the steps of the Ad­ministration Building. Spon­sored by Pax Christi. the demonstration involved almost sixty people. 
A Feb. 10 march involved over 300 faculty, staff. and stu­dents. Protesters circled the administration building and tried to enter the building. but no violence or other incidents were reported. 
Gregg Behr. co-president of Amnesty International and Er­ica Effler, president of Pax Christi. both received letters from William Kirk. assistant vice president of residence life, advising them that their groups did not follow university poli­cies in organizing the demonstrations. The letter 
• A<>:'! ElECTION;> Hopeful candidates present platforms 
By KRIST! KOLSKI 
\,,i.<Wll Nt·ws Edirnr 
During what can be termed Bs Plnrtion month at Notre I>BmP, tlw time has come to ,·otn for dass oflicers. Many of I hn tirknts are promoting I'Vnnl.s that would fmcouragn a grl'atf~r unity among the indi­' idual t·lasses. 
In a rornpntitivn race for Se­uior Class Office. there are I hrPP tir.kPts campaigning for -;t udPnt support. 
Tlw J.B. Boyd (president). ludP Williams (vice-president). Tom Bradshaw (secretary). and Chris Wu (trnasurer) ticket fPds they have unique opportu­nities to offer. 
"l·:wrybody's platform is fun. hut our <'Vents are a little dil'f'nn•nt." said Boyd. If elected llwy look to irnprovn the Senior Club with dollar nights. drink 


·~.. 1.. 

specials and a '96 days till graduation party'. They also hope to sponsor more events for senior week. as well as, ser­vice projects and special din­ner/dance events. 
The ticket of Kevin Kuwik (president). Paul Berrettini (vice-president). Kate Crisham (secretary), and Nathan Ebeling (treasurer) have divided their concerns into three tiers. 
First, they hope to put more focus towards such senior con­cerns as the alumni club, a senior dogbook. class gift and video yearbook. 
Through events such as an annual reunion over a football weekend. Kuwik expressed that thny "hope to promote class unity for the years to come." "We've been working on this campaign since Thanksgiving 
The Observer/Jennifer Rezeli 

Seniors Elissa Bell and Helen Dieteman were recently awarded Fulbright Fellowships and will spend next year teaching in France. 
Fulbright recepients to teach in France 
By MARY PELZER 
N~ws Wrircr 
Senior French and Program I' Liberal Studies majors Elissa :ell and Helen Dieteman were . ncently awarded 1995 FuJ­i .right Fllllowships. They and lirty-eight other college grad­·ttes nationwide will spnnd the ')95-96 academic year teach­
•g in French schools. As teaching assistants. the two women must spend eight to twelve hours weekly in a yet undetermined French region, leading English conversation classes. Free time may be spent taking university courses. 
'Tm very excited about it be­cause teaching is what I think I want to do," said Dieteman. who will use her Fulbright ex­perience to determine if she in-
see FULBRIGHT/ page 4 informed the two that Amnesty and Pax Christi could face University sanctions for any further actions found to be in violation of regulations detailed in du Lac, the student policy handbook. 

Kirk declined to discuss the specifics of the communications with The Observer. 
Kirk's communiques noted that du Lac requires that all student protests be registered with his office, and that an un­recognized student organiza­tion does not have the authority to sponsor events on campus. du Lac stipulates that all demonstrations be peaceful. and must not impede the free­dom of the university commu­nity. 
Kirk's letter continued to say that protests were not regis­tered with the office of Resi­dence Life, and "may have served as a vehicle for spon­sorship by an unrecognized stu­dent group." 
That may refer to GLND/SMC, said Effier. 
"That's just wrong," she said. "We invited GLND/SMC (to the protests). but they had nothing to do with it," she said. 
Pax Christi and Amnesty In­ternational are both officially recognized university student groups. GLND/SMC is not. 
Effler said Pax Christi was well aware of the risk they were taking in organizing the protests. The groups had been talking with the administration according to Effier. but decided to act anyway. 
"We knew there were regu­lations, but we felt our way was the best way to do things. We felt that if we asked for permis­sion. the university probably wouldn't let us march, and we thought it would be a little iron­ic to ask for permission to dis­agree with the object of the protests," said Effier. 
Behr said he has not had any verbal contact with the administration since the demonstration. "It's shocking that the University would send 
see PROTEST I page 4 
The Observer/ Brandon Candura 

Former Housing Secretary Jack Kemp lectured last night on the importance of urban renewal. 
Kemp: Empower people 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
We must appreciate living in the present times, which call for capitalism. former Secretary of Housing and Urban De­velopment Jack Kemp said last night in speaking on his "Mandate for the New Congress." 
"From the bottom of my heart, I am thrilled to be here," Kemp began his lecture, in which he mentioned the "despair" in American cities. 
In order to improve our coun­
• see GOP, page 4 
try. the focus must on be c1hes and other poverty stricken areas, Kemp said. 
"We must start in the cities because they are hurting the most," said Kemp, who is the author of an inner city job pro­gram called "Enterprise Zones," which is supported on a bipartisan basis. 
It is wrong to think of poor people as being "perpetually poor," Kemp said. One solution he otTered is to allow people to save on welfare without punish­ing them. According to Kemp, people on welfare should be al­lowed to save money in order to make more of it because. es­sentially. people are a help to the economy. 
"People are a source, not a drain on sources," he said. "Every individual human is im­portant," Kemp said, and he stated the importance of dis­covering "how we can unleash the talent of the human spirit." 
As Co-Director of Empower America. a new public policy organization, Kemp seeks to "advance social and economic policies which empower people. not government bureaucracies, and to expand entrepreneurial capitalism." 
In his encouragement of capi­talism, Kemp said that "the se­cret to a dynamic economy is to encourage men and women to take risks." Capitalism, accord­ing to Kemp. involves "earning. saving, investing. and putting money at risk." 
In explaining the importance of a capitalistic society. he re­ferred to the story from the Bible of Joseph. who was sold into slavery by his brothers. Kemp said that Joseph ap­proached the pharaoh and said, "If you want to get your econ­omy growing again, cut your tax rates·." This was not exactly how the story is told in the Bible. Kemp. told the audience. but "you have to read between the lines." 
Kemp said that in order to improve the economy, the tax rate increase needs to be re­pealed -the tax r.ate increases of both Clinton and Bush, he said. He spoke of "bringing the rates down" and of "simplifying the code." 
As part of his "mandate" for Congress, Kemp mentioned "honest" money. which is guar­anteed in terms of its pur­
see KEMP/ page 4 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 23, 1995 

.• ~NSIDE COLUMN 

• Wom..oAT A GtMJGE 
Somali gunmen ambush U.N. convoy, kill two 


Puppy 

Mogadishu
MOGADISHU 

One Somali U.N. driver was killed. Two Just days before American soldiers other Somali employees who were criti­

of all 
arrive to protect a U.N. withdrawal, cally wounded were flown to a hospital
• Somali gunmen ambushed a U.N. con­
where one later died, said U.N. voy on Wednesday, killing two people. 
spokesman Fred Eckhard in New York. 

puppies ... 
Two other Somali workers suffered only Four others were injured, including a minor injuries. 
To use one of those cliches, you never realize 

Canadian. U.S. troops are expected to land in early how much you miss 
The gunmen abducted and later March to protect the final withdrawal of something until it's gone. 
released unhurt a Somali official with U.N. troops, who have been protecting See, my dog died a couple 
the U.N. High Commissioner for ;.=::::;==:.::::;::::::;;;; efforts by aid agencies to provide food months ago. It's only just 
Refugees. and medical care to Somalis. hitting me now because 
U.N. officials said Bill Lindsay, a Mom and Dad are talking 
Canadian security official. suffered a ~-·"'.!! The last troops are expected to leave about finding a replace­
minor wound in one hand. Officials said --"" within two weeks, the U.S. commander of ment. A replacement? 
Lindsay was the only foreign worker for • ETHIOPIA the withdrawal, Vice Admiral Scott Redd, 
q 
Hah. As if they could the U.N. Development Program still in told reporters in Mombasa, Kenya. 

~ ___, ..... ----· .. -­
ever replace Puppy. 

Somalia. Most international aid workers and
;·" .... : '·/SOMALIA
Christmas was kinda Somali gunmen in two pickup trucks r--__ r civilian U.N. employees have left the

p·

weird without her. More than once, I could attacked the four-vehicle convoy as it country, at least temporarily. They plan 
IKENYA

have sworn she was coming up behind me, attempted to move from the develop­:~· I to wait to see what the security situation only to find it was just the jingling of dad's ment program building to the airport, is like after the pullout of the last U.N. 
keys or the clasp on my bracelet and not 
which was about half a mile away. troops.
Puppy's collar. Each time the front door 
opened, I expected our little white fluff ball to 
Famil slain murder-suicide sus 
come barreling head first down the stairs in 
greeting. There was no one to come running COLUMBUS PITTSBURGH 
for the M&Ms. No one to lap up the left over A mother, father and their two young children were The future of one of the nation's oldest candy bars is sips of wine from glasses left forgotten on the found shot to death early today. Police Chief William now up to one of its former manufacturers. Leaf Inc. ofliving room floor. No one to clean up after. 
Gumm would not comment on whether it was a murder­Lake Forest, Ill. foreclosed on a loan to D.L. Clark Co. onI used to laugh at people who grew so suicide but did say that police are not seeking any sus­Monday, and reclaimed its rights to the Clark Bar trade­attached to their animals that they treated pects. Officers went to the home about 2:30 a.m. after mark. Leaf lawyer Robert Lewis said the candy makerthem like fellow human beings. Until my fam­receiving a phone call to the 911 emergency center, had not yet decided whether to resume making theily joined the club. I watched my father, Gumm said. Police assume the call came from one of the chocolate-peanut bar or sell Clark's assets. Leaf. makerproud subscriber to magazines such as Guns victims, he said. The victims' names were being withheld of Good & Plenty and Milk Duds. sold Clark in 1991 to
and Ammo and National Review, reduced to 
pending notification of relatives. The victims were financier Michael Carlow. "The longevity of the Clarkutter inanities and baby talk as he coddled a described as a couple, their 6-year-old daughter and 4-Bar is now up to Leaf," said spokesman Steve Victor oftwelve-pound bundle of fur. Baby talk? Mom year-old son. Gumm declined to comment on the type of Pittsburgh Food and Beverage Co., the Clark holdingand the dog were even worse. The two were gun used or to release further details this morning. Platte company formed by Carlow. Carlow spokesman Frankcloserthanthis. Sometimes, the dog seemed a County Attorney John Kohl did not return telephone calls Catanzano called a move Monday by thP. company's cred­lot happier to see mom than anyone else. The seeking comment. The man and woman worked at the itors to force it into bankruptcy "wholly unnecessary."
opposite goes there too. I was waiting for Becton-Dickinson plant in Columbus, a town of 19,500 Federal authorities are investigating allegations Carlowthem to start getting their hair and nails done 
together. My brother even let the little 
about 85 miles northwest of Omaha, said plant manager defrauded PNC Bank of $31.5 million. No charges have fuzzball into his sanctuary of all sanctuaries­
Larry Zach. The plant makes medical products such as been filed. Production at Clark, founded in 1886 in sub­his bedroom. Unheard of in our house. As 
syringes. Zach described the victims as a good family. urban Pittsburgh, stopped Friday amid uncertainty over much as he'd hate to admit it, I think I even 
Counselors were available for employees and also at a the company's future. overheard him and Puppy talking puppy-talk. 
school one of the children attended. Puppy was one of the many victims of over­breeding and inbreeding. You name the dis­
France accuses di lomats of s 
Tiny bugs hook black market ba~ 
P.ase. condition. allergy, sensitivity or disor­
der, she had it. And more. Poor thing 
PARIS BALTIMORE couldn't see straight, walk straight or pee 
France has accused four American diplomats and a Largemouth bass implanted with tiny electronic bugs straight. You name the operation, she either 
fifth U.S. citizen of political and economic spying and helped hook a black markP.t ring that illegally sold more had it or needed it. In the short time she was 
asked them to leave the country, the newspaper Le than 40,000 pounds of fish. authorities say. State with us, she racked up vet bills that could 
Monde reported today. French media described it as Department of Natural Resources agents buried the tinyhave bought me a nice used Toyota. It was 
worst diplomatic rift between the two allies since a Paris bugs, which measure about three-eighths of an inch long, funny at the time how the little gal would go 
newspaper published the names of purported CIA agents under the skin of about 3,000 wild largemouth bass as careening into walls and was incapable of in France in 1976. According to Le Monde, Interior part of a program to track their growth and movement. 
making her way across linoleum without Minister Charles Pasqua wrote in a Feb. 18 letter to The bugs, which give ofT radio signals to a hand-held box,falling down. Then there was the time that President Francois Mitterrand that the live Americans helped reveal illegally caught bass from the Potomacshe missed a whole a flight stairs-not good. 
worked for the CIA and were guilty of "acts of interfer­River that were being stored in a fish farm run by 4 7­Tragedy of tragedies, Puppy passed away ence," including attempts to recruit aides to Cabinet min­year-old Dennis Patrick Woodruff. The Sun reportedthe morning of the Navy game when Mom and isters. The letter reportedly said the five were uncovered today. The fish were set to be shipped to wholesalersDad were out here in South Bend. I got the in a "long, detailed investigation" by the Direction for who would sell them to Asian markets and Northcall about 7 am and broke the news to them a Territorial Surveillance, France's counter-intellegence American restaurants, officials said. Authorities saycouple hours later. They didn't handle it well. 
service. There was no immediate indication if France had Woodruff and three accomplices made a profit of moreAt every tailgater we stopped at, Mom and set a deadline for the Americans to leave. The U.S. than $150,000. Woodruff was charged with conspiracyDad would pour out their hearts to our hosts, Embassy refused comment. Premier Edouard Balladur and nine counts under a federal law. Each count carriestelling them, "You'll have to excuse us, we declined to comment explicitly on the report but added, a maximum penalty of five years in prison and ajust found out that Puppy died." Most people "The French people are friends of the American people, $250,000 fine. Also charged last week were three mensympathized pretty well. In fact, if you ever and the French government is the friend of the American who allegedly supplied the fish to Woodruff. Theneed a good ice-breaker, talk about your dead government." The newspaper cited three separate inci­Potomac below Washington is known as one of the bestdog. It works, trust me. 
dents in which the Americans allegedly sought to pay ofT bass-fishing rivers in North America. Although it is legal 
Mom and Dad came out for JPW and informed me about getting a new dog and all. 
informants in exchange for information about France's to raise and sell largemouth bass on fish farms, it is ille­Nothing can or will ever replace Puppy, God 
position in world trade talks and on the state-run France gal to catch them and sell them because their numbers rest her little soul. But a new dog will give 
Telecom's structure and international network. are too small to withstand large-scale commercial fish-Mom someone to get her nails done with at least, I suppose. And Dad can put away Guns and Ammo again. Maybe my brother will leave the inner sanctum for a change too. 



Thursday, Feb. 23 
And with me out of the house, they're getting 
The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 23. 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
pretty lonely. I think they're finally over 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
Puppy and are ready to move on, which I'm happy about I guess. I just don't know if they can handle the possibility of losing another dog sometime in the future. Either way, it'll be good to see them all talking baby-talk again. 
I The views expressed in the Inside Column Iare those of the author and not necessarily 'those ofThe Obserller. 
I. ""OIL . .) SF.'' 

News Sports Nancy Dunn Tom Schlidt 
FRONTS: 

Ethan Hayward Abby May 
.....,......... .A-A... ....,....,_ 

Morgan Bracken Production 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 Accu-Weather. Inc. 
Prassure

Malanie Laflin Heather Gibson 
H L

Viewpoint Tara Grieshop 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa AssociattJd Press 

Mike O'Hara Accent 

Lab Tech Tom Johannesen Nicky Batill 
Patti Carson 
9.Q.~p~Q ~ ~ u
The Observer (USPS 5'l'l 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
··xccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a memher of 
Idtl' A<;c;ocian.·d Press. All reproducriun righrs are reserved. Vta Assoctated Press GraphJcsNet 
C1995 Accu-Weather. Inc. 

------------------------------------~ 
Atlanta 53 42 Dallas 74 52 New Orleans 73 50 Baltimore 49 53 Denver 71 31 New York 41 32 Boston 36 27 Los Angeles 70 56 Philadelphia 45 31 Chicago 33 33 Miami 76 63 Phoenix 78 57 Columbus 38 36 Minneapolis 33 27 St. Louis 46 41 

Thursday, february 23, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• SnmENT SeNATE
'95-96 editors announced 
By LIZ FORAN 
A,.,ociate News EJimr 
OhsnrvBr Editor-in-Chief-r.lnet John Lucas announcr.d thfl mnrnbnrs of thn 1995-1996 ( ;mwral Board yesterday. 
.Joining 1995-9(J Managing l·:ditors Suzy Fry and Beth Ho­gan and Business Manager Joe llilny are Editorial Board mem­bers: 
• 
Dave Tylnr. News Editor. Tyler is a junior American Studies major from Stamford, Conn. lie is a resident of Flan­nBr liall and is currently News Editor. 

• 
Mike Norbut, Sports Editor. Norbut is a junior English ma­jor from Naperville, II. lie lives in St. Edward's I I all and is cur­rently an Assodate Sports Edi­tor. 

• 
Krista Nannery, Accent Edi­tor. Nannery is a junior En­glish. computer applications, and German triple major from Seaford, N.Y. She lives in Far­IPy llall and is currently Accent 1-:ditor. 




WANTED BY THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPT: 
Motivated, eager folks for the following positions 
AssociATE NEws EDITOR ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR NEWS COPY EDITOR 
Interested? Then The Observer wants you! Please submit a resume and statement of intent to Dave Tyler by Thursday, March 2 at 8 a.m. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323 or 4-1200. 
• 
Patti Carson, Saint Mary's Editor. Carson is a sophomore English writing and humanistic studies major from Indianapo­lis, Ind. She lives in Holy Cross llall and is currently Saint Mary's Accent Editor. 

• 
Michael O'Hara. Viewpoint Editor. O'Hara is a junior com­munications and theater and government double major from Gahanna, Ohio. A resident of Morrisey Hall, O'Hara is cur­rently an Assistant Viewpoint Editor. 

• 
Rob Finch, Photo Editor. Finch is a freshman enrolled in the Freshman Year of Studies. He lives in Dillon Hall and hails from Arlington Heights, II. Finch currently serves as a Staff Photographer. 


Members of the Operations Board are: 
• John Potter, Advertising Manager. Potter is a junior ac­counting and computer applica­tions double major from Bar­rington, II. lie lives in Flanner Hall and currently serves as a sales representative. 
• 
Peter Coleman, Observer Marketing Director. Coleman is a junior marketing manage­ment major from Issaquah, Wash. He lives in Flanner Hall and is currently a sales repre­sentative. 

• 
Hyan Malayter and Jennifer Mackowiak, Advertising Design Manager. Malayter is a junior physics and computer science double major from Valparaiso, Ind. He lives off-campus and is currently Advertising Design Manager. Upon her return from Australia at the end of the semester, Mackowiak, a junior marketing major from Big Rapids, Mich., will take over the position. A former Pasquerilla West resident, she has served as Assistant Marketing Director and Assistant Advertising Design Manager. 

• 
Jackie Moser, Production Manager. Moser is a sopho­more design major from Rochester, Minnesota. She lives in Breen-Phillips Hall and is currently Production Man­ager. 

• 
Sean Gallavan, Systems Manager. Gallavan is a sopho­more Computer Science major from Upper Marlboro, Mary­land. He lives off-campus and is currently Systems Manager. 

• 
Eric Lorge, Controller. Lorge is a junior Accounting and Computer Applications double major from Cedarburg, Wisconsin. He lives in Flanner Hall and is currently Advertis­ing Manager. 


Recycle The Observer 
Gender Studies Open Forum 
HOMOPHOBIR RNO EOUCRTION 
4:15 pm, Today, I B2 DeBartolo 
Carlos Jerez-Farran: uHomophohia Rffects Everyone" Mary Rose O'Rngelo: uHomophohia, SeHism and the Bible" Mark Jordan: uHomophohia and the Medieval Church'' Rua Preacher Collins: uHomophohia and Popular Culture" 
Kathleen 8/dd/c.k, presidin 
Eastland, Dewar added to off-campus ballot 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
A new ticket was added to the office of off-campus senators in the upcoming Student Govern­ment elections and plans were furthered for the development of the committee on gender re­lations. 
Student Senate approved the appeal to allow Keith Eastland and Kevin Dewar to be placed on the ballot at the meeting yesterda}' afternoon. 
The Senate had to decide if the Eastland-Dewar ticket should still be allowed to appear on the ballot consider­ing they turned their petition in one day after the deadline. There was reason for discus­sion since Student Body President-elect and Vice President-elect Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy also turned their petition in late. 
"We made it clear that we wouldn't accept late petitions. It is almost the same issue, but it is not. With JP and Dennis we approved it without check­ing the rules. I'm afraid this opens it up for people to bypass petition rules," said Andrew Alfers, judicial coordinator. 
"Allowing it once is a mistake or exception, but again and it sets a precedent which says it is okay for it to happen next year," said Student Body Trea­surer Sally Oelerich. 
However other members of the Senate thought the pair de­served to be in the election. 
"Nothing went wrong with the first election and therefore not letting them run would be a double standard," said South Quad Senator Brian Foley. 
The candidates wanted to be included on the ballot to give off-campus students a choice in the election, since there is only one other team on the ticket. According to Eastland and De­war, however, they did not know how many other tickets for the office of off-campus sen­ator would appear on the ballot at the time they handed in their petition. 
"The reason that we're ap­pealing is that there is just one other candidate. If I were an off-campus student voting, I would want a choice. We're only doing this to benefit off­campus students," said East­land. 
Other business discussed at the meeting included the progress of the Committee on Gender Relations. 
"I think it is a good idea to set up something permanent for next year. Not with people like us who have too many other responsibilities, but with a de­voted council," said Hall Presi­dents' Council Co-Chair Rich Palermo. 
The formation of a new com­mittee would deal with student relations, including gender relations and the idea of co-ed dorms, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's relations, and issues such as Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). 
The executive committee of this group would consist of a publicity representative, a sec­retary, and a treasurer. The chairperson would hold a vot­ing seat in the Senate. Other students interested could also join the committee. 
"So far the frBshmen have shown tremendous interest. This year we would appoint the officers, but after that elections would be held," said Palermo. 
"We're all fired up to do something, so now all we need to do is direct that energy," said Student Union Board Hepresentative Bridget Conley . 
The current Gender Relations Committee, which was started by Palermo and Conley, is presently drawing up an amendment to establish this committee, which would mean rearranging Student Govern­ment. They will take the amendment to the Hall Presi­dents' Couneil in two weeks. If passed, the Senate will then have a chance to vote on it. 
'• CAMPUS BRIEF j Undergraduates will be able 
,to do laundry for froe this Sat­urday and Sunday in the Badin land LaFortune laundry rooms, 
I hanks to ttw efforts or the SUB Sorvice Committee. 
Students may sign up at the l.aFortuno Information Desk to \use the laundry machines to do 'Wash for a two-hour period in jthe two-day time. Sign ups are 
for times between 10 am and 8 pm on both days, according to a statement by Shannon Ewan, services committee. 
SUB contracted with Notre Dame Vending to use the two laundry rooms at cost for the event, according SUB Manager Bridget Conley. Sign-ups began on Wednesday, she said, and will continue today. 


Cll1ll.silA11P1 
April 22, 1995 
Join togethDr with up to seven of your friends to partiCipate In Christmas In April (CIA). 
CIA 11 a one day working se111011 during which the South Bend community will Join forcos with the students, 11culty, and stan of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to ~vale 101 l"effM' lho homes of the needY. llldllrly. ... hlnllcapp8d residents ol a South Bend neighborhood. 
Sign-Ups 
Mon., Feb. 27, Tues., Feb. 28, 11 AM to 2 PM, 4 PM to 8 PM at the Library Concourse 
LIMITED SPOTS AVAILABLE 
Fun Run April1 to Benefit Christmas in April 
1 ··hl!t:\"i • ( aU ~1.u _, \1, ( l•ll\tlk .al ·Pull. 11111 \.£111•~· 'r\..slk ;~t :. f l·.!''"~h. \•r 1\~_l' \V.ard "' -: 
page 4 

Kemp 
continued from page 1 
rhasing power. 

"When money is honest," Kemp said, "interest rates are low." 
Kemp, also, suggested open­ing up trade to the whole world, which should be "duty­free." There should be free trade zones between Canada, the U.S., and Mexico, according to Kemp. 
ln reference to the United States' efforts to rescue the weak Mexican economy, Kemp said, "l want to save the peso." The government's current pol­icy was "a recipe for depres­sion," he said. 
"1 do not propose spending 20 billion dollars of tax payers' money and bailing out Mexico." 
"No amount of American money will save Mexico," Kemp said. He suggested stabilizing the value of the peso against the dollar, offering the figure of 3 1/2 pesos to the dollar. 
"We should buy pesos," Kemp said, which would strengthen the demand of the peso. 
In speaking of his nine terms in the U.S. House of Represen­tatives and his seven years as Chairman of the House Repub­lican Conference, Kemp said that he is often asked why he chose to enter politics after playing professional football. 
After 13 years in the NFL, playing with the Lions, the Gi­ants, the Steelers, the Charg­ers, and the Bills, and after numerous injuries, including several concussions and broken fingers and ankles, Kemp said "there was nothing do but run for Congress." 
When asked why he was not running in the 1996 presiden­tial election, Kemp said one of 
The Observer • NEWS 


GOP should be party of ideals, compassion 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Kemp responded to a num­ber of questions in a press conference last night prior to his lecture, "Mandate for the New Congress." 
When asked about abortion, Kemp stated that he and his wife were pro-life. The Repub­lican Party, according to Kemp, "needs to retain its pro­life principles" and to "change minds and hearts." He spoke of the need to "restore respect for human life -for the born and the unborn." 
"In America today, It's easier to get an abortion than it is to get an adoption," Kemp said, and he added, "I totally reject the taking oflife in the name of life." 
When he was asked in the press conference what he would tell a Black South Bend resident living on a· low income, Kemp responded.that the opportunity for this person to own propert)! would create an access to capital and to 
. :: 
the main reasons is his disfavor of fundraising. "Fundraising in American politics today is 'grotesque' as Newt Gingrich said," according to Kemp. 
"I don't want to spend the time that you have to spend in order to raise money," he said. ''I'm 59 years old. I have eight grandchildren. I want to enjoy my senior years on this earth. I'm not running in '96, and I'm not looking at the year 2000." 
Kemp added that Bob Dole was a definite "front runner" for the Republican Party in the Presidential election, and a good running mate for Dole is Colin Powell. 

credit and "an opportunity to get out of poverty." 
ln a press conference, Kemp made reference to the story of the good shepherd in the New Testament of the Bible, saying that the shepherd left 99 sheep to go and look for one sheep. 
He said that Americans should have "compassion for the problems," and that Republicans should be "more of a party that expresses ideals." 
However, Kemp said, "we should be doing less preaching and more practicing." 
Kemp said that the Republi­can party should be "inclusive" as opposed to "exclusive." He spoke of America as being "one family." 
Kemp said that "it is possible to serve the American people without being the President," and he said that his co-founder for Empower America, William Bennett, has been able to do this, in his Book of virtues. 
Kemp said his future plans include serving as an "influ­ence for good on the Republican party." 
At various points throughout his lecture, Kemp told the audi­ence at Stepan Center that "we're living in the most excit­ing time in the history of the world." He, also, added, "I can't imagine a more exciting time to be a student at Notre Dame." 
Kemp urged the audience to challenge one another. He said that the Bible says, "He who wrestles with you, strengthens you." 
"If you're on the left, argue with the right. If you're on the right, argue with the left," Kemp said. "Have fun," he told the audience, "and enjoy it." 



Cars catch fire in Loftus lot 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associate News Ediwr 

A fire causing damage to two cars broke out Monday morn­ing in the Loftus parking lot, according to Chief John An­tonucci of the Notre Dame Fire Department. 
Two vehicles were damaged in the fire, including a 1985 BMW and a 1986 Ford. Total rlamage to the vehicles was list­ed at $8,000, Antonucci said. 
Security was notified of the fire by an anonymous phone 

call from Loftus at about 6:45 
a.m. The Fire Department was called when officers confirmed there was a fire, Antonucci said. 
"Two cars were fully involved in the fire at the time of ar­rival," Antonucci said. "Due to strong wind conditions, it could easily have involved more than two cars." 

The fire is believed to have started in the engine of the BMW, according to Antonucci, although the owner reported no recent problems with the vehicle. 
The owners of the vehicles were identified as Coby Lang­ley, 21, and Evelyn Major,71. 
When the Great Ameriam Dream 
isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime or service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
Thursday, February 23, 1995 

Fulbright 
continued from page 1 

deed wants secondary school teaching as a career. "Besides, it's a great way to end four years of hard work at Notre Dame." 
Bell was likewise thrilled to have the chance to spend an­other year abroad. Her inter­est in France, her love for the culture, and the chance to en­hance her speaking ability were all motivating factors in her decision to apply for a French teaching assistant posi­tion. 
This motivation proved nec­essary to undergo the rigorous application process that deter­mined which of the nearly 400 candidates would win the com­petition. In particular, the se­lection process included an in­terview by a campus commit­tee, partially conducted in the appropriate foreign language, and essay questions asking stu­dents to detail their curriculum vitae and the reasons for their desire to teach abroad. Special preference was given to stu­dents like Bell and Dieteman who plan careers teaching in their area of expertise. 
When asked why Notre Dame students fared so well in the tough application process, Ful­bright advisor James McAdams immediately referred to the reputation of the Notre Dame French Department. 
"I think this particular competition shows how strong our romance language depart­ment is, and how good the Angers program is." said McAdams, noting that this year's winners have both already spent a year in Angers, France. "It's extraordinary for a university to have two stu­dents win teaching assistant­ships. It's a real ac­complishment." 
Preparations for next year's competition will begin this spring, when McAdams will or­ganize a meeting to discuss the Fulbright Fellowship program. 


Protest 
continued from page 1 

a letter of suspicion, basically a threatening letter prior to talk­ing to us. We had no forewarn­ing of the letter." 
Amnesty vice-president Roberto Guerra said the letters will not deter his organization 
from their advocacy for GLND/SMC. 
"The letter is not going to make us change our support," he said. 
Effler said future demonstra­tions are not out of the ques­tion. Both Behr and Effler said the national organizations fully support their local chapters in their stance. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Oberver staff. 

FEBRUARY 23, 24, 25 AT 8P.M. FEBRUARY 26 AT 2:30 P.M. LITTLE THEATR 
TICKETS: $8/ADULTS: $6/SENIOR CITIZENS & GROUPS: $4/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; $3/STUDENTS TICKETS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE. LOCATED IN O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM. OPEN FROM 9-5. MON. -FRI. DISCOVER. VISA. MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219 I 284-4626 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 23, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS
Bowen: Healthcare 


Election reflects Clinton's i01age 
reform comPlicated 
By AMY SCHMIDT although his requests were Now< Writor noble, they were also impossi­ble. Bowen said that Clinton 
There is no simple way to to failed in his attempt at health make health insurance secure, care reform because he was affordable, and portable at the scuttled by political pressures same time. according to for­and the public's ambivalence mer Indiana Governor Otis to the issue. Bowen, M.D .. who spoke last As for the future, Bowen said night on the issue of health that Social Security will still c·anl reform. play a central role, though it 
llis speech was the first in a may not be the "super bar­
sevrn-week lecture series gain" it has been in the past. sponsored by the South Bend Bowen also said that any fu­Center for Medical Education. ture health care legislation 
Bowen, a former head ol' the should be incremental, as op­l>epartm11nt of Health and Hu­posed to instantaneous. How­man Services, stressed that the ever, recent health care efforts government does have are­have not been done in vain, sponsibility to provide care for according to Bowen. people who need, but cannot "One benefit is that the re­afford certain serviees. form has stimulated the pri­
lie explained three compo­vate sector to act," he said. 
rwnts of health care which fall In part two of the lecture, under governmental responsi­David F. Wehlage M.D., an ad­bility: access, quality. and cost. junct assistant professor of Bowen highlighted r.ost as a psychology at Notre Dame, dis­major concern fur many Amer­cussed the effects of seasonal icans. depression on the mental 
"llolding down costs is ex­health of individuals. ceedingly important." he said. Wehlage cited statistics that "and the govnrnrnent should show that most seasonal de­monitor quality of care sensi­pression occurs in the fall and bly and with sensitivity, for the spring, and is monf' com­hoth tlw patient and provider." mon in women. lie stressed 
Bowen also cited various that depression is a biological­reasons for the increase in ly, genetically determined dis­health care cost. Among these ease that is not under the con­factors are increased technolo­trol of the victim. ·~y. hospitals, and physicians "Depression is a devastating who "practiee defensive medi­disease that has been under­~·ine." Bowen also addressed recognized for a long time," the importance of past and Wehlage said. futum attempts at health care The remainder of the "mini 1·eform. mod-school" lectures are 
lie praised President Clinton scheduled for Wednesday for "taekling such a huge evenings at 7:30 p.m. in 102 problem," but added that DeBartolo. 
and changes in income. The Panel member and History
Panel discusses 
other reason is possibly the vot­Professor Emeritus Anthony ers' evaluation of the President Black credits the success of the

causes, effects of 
himself. Republicans to Newt Gingrich's ' "The economy is doing well, brainchild, "The Contract with

GOP revolution 
so the upset of the voters is America." clearly reflective of Clinton's
By CAROLINE BLUM approval ratings. His ratings Gingrich proposed "The Con­
News Writer 
were low, and the effects tract with America" with the spilled over into the voters' intentions of creating a majorWith Clinton's term half over 
dissatisfaction with the revolution in Congress. This
and the Hepublican race in '96 Democratic Party as a whole," revolution consists of the pas­continuing to heat up, the Polit­Pierce said. sage of ten major initiatives
ical Science Department at 
During the midterm elections, within the first one-hundredSaint Mary's continues to buzz hopeful politicians plunge for­days of their term.
about the new era of politics ward if opportunities look good. "I believe the contract to bethat has emerged. 
In 1994, the Hepublicans saw purely genius." Black said. 
Last week, Saint Mary's Polit­
great election opportunities. Pierce, however, presented a
ic<tl Science Club President 
Therefore they placed strong, contradicting view.
Jennifer O'Dell organized a 
experienced, and well-funded "None of the issues factor
panel discussion about the 
candidates on the tickets. The into midterm elections. The causes and effects of the 1994. 
result was the defeat of several Republican's 'Contract with
midterm elections. 
Democratic incumbents such as America' is a one-sided con­
The 1994 midterm election 
House Speaker Tom Foley. tract which had no innuence on 
was the third since 1930 and 
Senior political science major the election results.
first since 1946 in which the 
Kelly McDevitt, another mem­The Hepublican Party will put
Republicans won a ber of the panel, was curious the Contract into effect as a
Congressional majority. Every about the success of women result of the elections, but theRepublican incumbent running candidates of 1994. voters did not ask for thefor Congress or governor won The results were not to her Contract," said Pierce. Mem­reelection. 
satisfaction, however, as she bers of the panel deduced that learned that only 40% of the the low approval rating of Clin­Members of the forum and female Hepublican and ton was caused by the public's
Patrick Pierce, Associate .Pro­
Democratic candidates were misconceptions about his per­fessor of Political Science, of­victorious. sonal image.
fered their explanations of the Heather Steinmiller, a sopho­The ambiguity of Clinton'sRepublican victory in an inter­more member of the panel, policies has been troubling forview yesterday. 
compared Clinton's approval many Democrats. Junior Jill
"The bottom line is Clinton. 
ratings to the election results in Broemmel referred to theThe Congressional elections at 
each state. Texas gubernatorial race in­
the midterm always beat up the The results were correlated. volving Democratic incumbent
members of the President's The states which contained Anne Richards.
party," Pierce said. 
strong disapproval ratings of Hichards, who possessed the
Pierce gave two possible rea­
Clinton elected Hepublican highest governor approval rat­
sons for the turnover. The first 
Congressmen whereas the ing in several years and con­reason is the voter's states who approved of Clinton tained a great reputation for
dissatisfaction with the current were likely to continue support­her handling of law and order,
economy-the levels of unem­ing their Democratic candi­lost to the young Republican
ployment, the inflation rates, dates. George W. Bush. 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE T 0 W N H 0 M E S 
NEWLY REMODELED ADVANTAGES WE OFFER . NEW CARPETS · FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
. NEW TILE FLOORS . WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY 
. COMPLETE REPAINTING OF 

APARTMENT
EVERY UNIT . DISHWASHER AND MUCHMORE! 
· CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING · ADT SECURITY SYSTEMS · 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 







UNITS STILL AVAILABLE 
page 6 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 23, 1995 

NOW THAT JANE DIALS 1-800-COLLECT INSTEAD OF ZERO, THE GANG DOESN'T HIND WHEN SHE PADS HER BOWLING SCORE. 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
SaveThe PeopleYou Call UpTo 44o/o. 

Thursday, February 23, 1995 
The Observer • US NEWS page 7 
Helicopter crashes at Harvard 
By GLEN JOHNSON 
company was on board. The .\ssociarrd Press helicopters are used for various 
things, from rescues to surveil­
CAMBRIDGE 
lance to transporting digni­
A state police helicopter taries, police said. ITashnd into a Harvard Univer­Tom Fiddaman, 29. an MIT 
sity boathouse this morning, 
student, said he ran to call 911 killing all four people aboard. when he saw the crash. then 
The helieopter new westward ran to the boathouse and found 
over the Massaehusetts Insti­
other would-be rescuers al­tute of Technology campus be­ready there. fore it erashed into the 
"They had already kicked in boathouse on the banks of the 

the door and climbed to the 
Charlns Hiver, witnesses said. 
roof, but they came back when 
"I looked up and I saw it they smelled the fuel," Fid­
coming down, I saw it coming daman said. down fast," said Scott Farrar, 
The helicopter, which was who was at work at nearby 
roughly 5 years old. had just
AP/V'Jm. J. Castello

Kwik Copy. "I saw a puff of left the Nashua Street helipad'inow or smoke when it hit the nat-roofed building did not ap­about two miles away, state po­building." pear to be seriously damaged. 
lice spokesman Grant Moulai­
"It wasn't wiggling or on lire University officials said the son said. or anything like that." said an­building was unoccupied at the 
Memorial Drive, which paral­other witness. Doug Kramer. time of the incident. The four 
lels the river, was closed to "It looked like it was in con­victims. all from aboard the he­
traffic and filled with fire 
trol." licopter, were two state police trucks. Environmental officials 
Aftnr the crash, the French­officers and two employees of 
were called in to clean up gaso­made Aerospatiale helicopter AT&T, police said. line that spilled into the river. 
l'nuld bn seen lying on its side Robin S. Ayre, AT&T spokes­While the boathouse is now with its tail shorn off but both woman. could not immediately 
owned by Harvard, it is near rotors in tact. The one-story, confirm that anyone from her 
part of the MIT campus. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special ad in the Observer 
Blacklisting banned, violates civil rights 
Associared Press 
of the city or its merchants," Fitzpatrick's order said. ATHENS Without admitting wrongdo­Charges against four people 
ing or apologizing, merchants who violated the ban also will in downtown Union Point have be dropped. Atkins said. agreed to lift a ban that kept 21 Attorneys were scheduled to young blacks out of their stores. meet in Athens today to discuss 
The ban had been enacted in pending lawsuits and whether December in an attempt to cur­damages will be awarded. tail shoplifting and other crimes Twelve of the 21 blacks on in Union Point, a town of 1,700 the list have joined two federal people about 80 miles east of lawsuits charging that their Atlanta. civil rights were violated. Those 
"They finally recognized that suits are pending before Fitz­the ban was unconstitutional," patrick. said 1-1. Samuel Atkins Jr., at­"Now I can go back in the torney for 12 people on the list. stores if I want to," Tim Allen. 
"They did what they should one of those banned. said. But have done three weeks ago." Allen. 19, added that he doesn't want to shop in them "because 
Both sides met for almost 10 I'm angry." hours of negotiations Tuesday Although everyone on the list before U.S. District Judge was black. city officials and 
Duross Fitzpatrick issued an merchants have denied any order saying the city and mer­racial motive. chants agreed to lift the ban. Mayor Ben Stewart, who Fitzpatrick had ordered both owns three businesses that had 
sides to settle the dispute but been enforcing the ban, de­didn't take part in the talks. clined to comment Tuesday. 
"Their efforts to prevent Atkins said most of the black crime were not motivated by on the list had never been any racial motivation nor by charged with shoplifting, theft any improper conduct on behalf or burglary. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
FINDING TIME FOR GOD 
This coming Wednesday marks the beginning of the preparation for the Passion, Death and Resurrection ofJesus Christ. For many this beginning is set apart by the receiving of ashes. For others Lent is marked by the giving up of certain favorite desserts or activities. Still others consider Lent the opportunity to re-examine their relationship with their God by increased devotion to prayer and fasting. 
When I was in grade school my brothers and sisters and I would challenge each other on who could make the greatest sacrifice and actually make it through the full forty days of Lent without giving in to 
temptation and "breaking Lent." Then there was always the debate about whether or not Sunday acted as a day of reprieve from our 
Lenten sacrifice. My mother was always the judge and jury about these 
types of questions. Unless, ofcourse, it was St. Patrick's Day. The Cardinal in Boston gave all Catholics dispensation to eat our corned 
beef and cabbage dinner. 
When I was an undergraduate, however, my Lenten devotions turned 
to increasing spiritual activities. Often this might include daily participation in the Eucharist or more time spent in personal prayer. 
Finding time to allow God into my schedule was difficult. 
Recently, my wife Melissa and I welcomed into the world our third child, Madeleine Anne. Our two other children, Caitlyn and Sean, have not quite figured out how far reaching this event is going to change their lives. One thing is for sure, however; Melissa and I have realized there is not enough time in the day for all that needs to get done. 
So as Lent is fast approaching and we begin to think ofways our little family may incorporate this season of preparation into our daily lives, I am reminded of another busy period when time was also of the essence-college. Finding time for extra Lenten activities was very difflcult. Making it to the end ofLent without failing seemed impossible. Lucky for me my brothers and sisters were not around to catch me "breaking Lent." 
For the past four months a group of Campus Ministry staff, rectors, administrators and students have been putting together what we believe is an excellent way to begin the Lenten season here at Notre Dame. For three nights the annual Keeping the Faith series will focus on the topic of Developing a Personal Spirituality at Notre Dame. This year's series will offer new ways in which students can keep their busy schedules of classes, clubs and sports from hindering time for personal 
prayer. 

Sometimes the easiest way to find our way through the crazy pace of the semester is by taking time to slow down and actually see where we are going. Through a variety of prayer experiences and presentations by John Dunne, C.S.C., Regina Coli, C.S.J. and a panel of Notre Dame community members, we will provide you with ways of praying alone or in small groups. 
Come to Keeping the Faith '95 and experience the difference that new prayer forms can make and "rake it to the next level" this Lenten season. 
Darrell R. Paulsen 
* * * * * 

DEVELOPING A PERSONAL SPIRITUALITY 
AT NOTRE DAME Sunday -February 26 Presenter -John Dunne, C.S.C. 
Facilitator -Mary Vaccaro Thursday -March 2 Presenter -Regina Coli, C.S.J. Sunday -March 5 Panel of Presenters -Greg Behr, 
Felicia Leon and Dan Driscoll, 
Katie Glynn and Joe Ross, C.S.C. 

You are most welcome at all three or any one ofthe three nights. 
EIGHTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Feb. 25 5:00p.m. Rev. Jeffrey Schneibel, C.S.C. 
Sun. Feb. 26 10:00 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 

11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C. 
'S"fi)r This Coming Sunday 

si;~ch 27:4-7 ffi~~~~~·· 1 Corinthians 15:54-58 Luke 6:39-45 
-------~-~ -----~­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 23, 1995 
(president), Michael Zinser dent), Megan Hempelman (vice­(vice-president), Mike Eger president), Jackie McAllister
Election Pro-British unionists 
(secretary), and Pat Abell (trea­(secretary), and Mike Peppard 
continued from page 1 
and we're pretty fired up," stat­Pd Kuwik. Regarding social issues, they hope to implement a welcome back week, recreat­ing such events as the graffiti dance, specifically for seniors. Additionally, they would spon­sor talk show trips and Alumni Senior Club parties. 
In the area of service, they would hope to increase in­volvement in local treatment centers and adopt the 1\femorial Hospital Children's Ward. 
The platform of Jamie Mal­r·olm (president), Julie Mc­Carthy (vice-president), Mary llyder (secretary), and Kris Ka­zlauskas (treasurer) focuses on events for senior class unity. 
"We want to focus on a lot of things but ultimately we just want to have a lot of fun," rlaimed Malcolm. This ticket rromotes new events for the Alumni/Senior club, such as -;uitcase parties and free food nights. If elected they plan to sponsor a senior mass and re­treat as well as a senior cruise, an Amish weekend trip, cat show and a senior formal. 
There are five tickets running for the offices of the class of 1997. 
With hopes of being elected as the "Junior Class Officers," Dennis Deters (president). Thomas Cecil (vice-president), .Jeffrey Speaks (secretary), An­drew Venosa (treasurer) hope to implement fun and odor-free f'vents in a 'famolee' atmo­-;phere. 
Claiming to offer a new fron­tier, Deters stated that "our platform looks to have a lot of fun." If elected, the ticket promises a paint ball war in the Snite, a Segafest, a dining hall techno dance party, the addi­tion of breath mints and de­odorant at dining hall exits, a statue of Brad Pitt erected in front of the Snite and to bring hack Major League Baseball. 
The Christopher Miller (presi­dent), Timothy Gibbons (vice­president), Gerard Lavin (sec­retary), and Robert Long (trea­surer) ticket claim to be a "bad idea whose time has finally f'ome." This ticket proposes an Pternal commemoration to their names and bodies throughout campus, melting the dome and selling the gold to reduce ticket and class ring prices, and creating an alien defp,nse initiative. 
The ticket of Joe Schimpf 

surer) offer a platform with focus on class activities. 
Schimpf claimed that "we have a lot of new ideas and we hope to the council run more smoothly than it has in years past." 
"We feel that our experience on the Sophomore Class Coun­cil will help us deal with the administration and we'll get a lot done next year," added Zinser. If elected they'll spon­sor trips to sports events, celebrity guest speakers, a Ju­nior class Lollapalooza and a cruise/dance. They also hope to create a greater commitment to service. 
The Mike Schwartz (presi­dent), Bill Hammonds (vice­president), Erin Purtell (secre­tary), and Beth Loftus (treasur­er) ticket have a four point platform that includes a junior class ski trip, Junior class scrapbook, an informal dance and a class trip to Indianapolis. 
The last ticket running for the '97 class leadership position consists of Anthony Reid (presi­dent), Jessica Heieck (vice­president), Todd Fitzpatrick (secretary), and Pete Ugo (trea­surer). They hope to create a unified class identity with greater class voice, dorm par­ticipation, class spirit and class activities. According to Reid, "there were very few activities this year and people hardly even new when things were going on. Our focus is on unifi­cation through activities." 
The race for Sophomore Class Office consists of six tick­ets. 
The Cheryl Davies (presi­dent), Keith Dillhoff (vice-presi­dent), Lisa Shoemaker (secre­tary), and Thomas Meyer (trea­surer) ticket hopes to form "one big happy family." With plans to unify the class of 1998, their platform would support more class events, a monthly news letter, and encourage in­volvement in the class service project at Dismas House. 
The platform of Greg Feo (president), Laura Giuliani (vice-president), Lorna Oates (secretary). and Andy Furey (treasurer) calls for a joint ef­fort, between students and rep­resentatives to create a greater sophomore alliance through a class home page and a week of sports and talent shows. They also promise a sophomore spring break trip, community service projects and an im­proved JPW getaway. 
The Brendan Kelly (presi-

Chinese Fast Food 
Bol"ed with the dining hall food? lil"ed of ol"del"ing pizza? Try something diffel"ent­t--lave C~0?6T)Ct<Sdelivel"ed to yotAI" doi"W\ 

Mon-Th...,.s 11a.m.-9p.m. F,.i & Sat 11a.m.-10p.m. 
,.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------,
i ! 
1 C~OPST)CI'<S C~OPST)CI'<S I 
: I 
j 2 EGG ROLLS CRABMEAT WON TON i 
1 


$1.49 $1.49 I 
I I 
1 Reg. $1.98 Reg. $1.98 : 
j ~~2~~:~:,~:=.-=.:~~5-95 com~~::?w~~~~.~=~-~~.:'W~s-es I 
! !
1.----·-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
$6 minim~.<m $1 se,.vice cha,.ge for orde,.s ~.<nde,. $15 
(treasurer) ticket would offer greater support on gender issues. They also promise im­provements such as turning on the internet in those dorms al­ready wired, making the restaurant in LaFortune 24 hours, and installing laundry machines in male dorms. 
"Our campaign has a lot of specifics. We know exactly what we want to do and we feel that they're practical," said Kelly. If elected, they will also sponsor Class of '98 events such as a gambling night, a trip to Canada, an after-football game bonfire, and a Mardi Gras bash. 
The Megan Murray (presi­dent). Peter Moriarty (vice­president), Matt Dougherty (secretary), and Connie Griffin (treasurer) offers a campaign calling for communication, cooperation and action and a focus on 'you.' 
The Sophomore Class Office platform of Cliff Page (presi­dent). Erica Espinola (vice­president), Noelle Phillips (sec­retary), and Noah Gray (trea­surer) offers class and campus­wide events. They would sup­port a Sophomore Class tutor­ing network (help hotline), a class dinner/dance formal at an off-campus hotel, weekly class study breaks, North and South quad unity events, sophomore spring festival of activities, monthly sophomore service projects, sophomore softball tournament and BBQ and class trips. 
The final ticket in the race for 
Sophomore Class Office consists 
of Michael Shrekgast (presi­
dent). Theresa Kelley (vice­
president), Andrew Herbert 
(secretary). and Peter Van De 
Yen (treasurer). Their cam­
paign offers a sophomore 
overnight trip to an away foot­
ball game, the formation of a 
Career Guidance committee, a 
monthly newsletter, and an E­
Mail Update. 

dispute new proposal 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press Writer 
BELFAST 

Two years in the making, a new approach to governing Northern Ireland was unveiled Wednesday by Britain and Ire­land as a framework for peace talks. Indignant pro-British unionists rejected it as "the IRA way." 
In contrast to their Protestant rivals, nationalist Roman Catholic politicians were cheered by the 42-page document made public by the British and Irish prime minis­ters, standing side-by-side at a conference center in Belfast. 
John Major of Britain and John Bruton of Ireland stressed that Northern Ireland's parties could amend or reject their suggestions in coming negotia­tions. 
"This is not a take-it-or­leave-it offer. But this is our considered judgment on the best way forward," Major said in an interview. 
The proposals include an elected Parliament in Northern Ireland with safeguards for the Catholic minority, changes in British law and the Irish constitution to guarantee Northern Ireland's right to choose its destiny and new bodies to promote cooperation within the divided island. 
But the Rev. Ian Paisley, the dominant voice of hard-line unionism, denounced the doc­ument as "the IRA way, the Dublin way, the nationalist way and the republican way ... a one-way street to Dublin, every word of it." 
The document is an attempt to lay the groundwork for a settlement in Northern Ireland, created in 1920 with a pro­British Protestant majority but torn since the late 1960s by 
Anglo-Irish proposals for Northern Ireland 
.............. ~---~-;~·~;~~~···· 
! Atlanti rj [" , c::::J 
c if f ;J.,----., 175 km 
Ocean ! 1 ' 
,. ·~ SCOTLAND 
«"~ ~J North NORTHERN •>A(J--<--?,., Sea IRELAND -:l iJ·.h.\ :\., 
'""'~?L""·~·, .. / \
r-v-1~i~st~ ;"(GREAr 
·~o ~ '\'" · ·· '!JRITAJtl. (,? Dublin 9 y.--4 \ 
?tiRE~~·. w;i:Es ~ ENGLA:o-) 

.,.~,..... '(....,..,.,,_;LondonO-l.., . Celtic ./~' e:r----//{1 
Sea 4',...,f"'.:r· .l•• i '---------'"""'-.6 
~~>< The Irish republic will amend its constitutional claim to Northern Ireland, recognizing local majority rule. 

flOe• United Kingdom law also will be i changed allowing Northern Ireland's 1 people to decide whether or not to remain linked with Britain. 
II>·· A new body of elected representatives from a Northern Ireland assembly and the Irish parliament will coordinate policies north and south of the border. 
11> London and Dublin will co­operate more closely on Northern Ireland policy, but will not have the right to interfere with powers given to the Northern Ireland assembly. 
flOe, Both governments will ensure the protection of civil, political, social and cultural rights for both Protestant and Catholic communities in Northern Ireland. 
• Britain proposes restoring a parliament in Northern Ireland. 

APfTerry Kale 
Protestant-Catholic violence. 

Protestants are determined to maintain Northern Ireland's place within the United King­dom, and are afraid of any compromise that could lead to ending British rule and uniting the territory with Ireland, which is predominantly Catholic. 


ad Apple• Friday 9:00 LaFortune 
i~ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 







VIEWPOINT 
February 23, 1995 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sporn Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Dircctor ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiiz.abcth Regan Controller.....•....•••..•.•.....•••....•....•. Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the smdents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of rhe Editor-in-Chid; Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Obsuvcr. Virwpoinr space is available to all members of the None Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Edilor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Pholo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Edilor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 


• SOCIETY WHIRL 

Gump's for chumps; not best picture 
I haven't seen Forrest Gump all the way through, and I never will. How about that'! Right down there with 
Angels in America, The Celestine Prophecy, and the collected work of Lynda Barry, the picture represents the worst kind of bacterial growth in American culture. I spent a good 45 minutes of it playing video games. Consider this column a hate letter to Forrest Gump. 

Josh Ozersky 

Now, normally I wouldn't devote any energy to the Oscars. Everyone knows they arc awarded for obscure business reasons, or to settle sexual debts, or at the direction of the I Ching, which is to say, at random. Nobody over the age of fifteen really expects them to corre­spond to merit, but, like the equally ran­dom Nobel prize for literature, deep down we all want it to mean something. And this year it does mean something. It is obvious to me that the Best Picture category this year represents a referen­dum on American intelligence. Because, you see, Forrest Gump is up against Pulp Fiction, and that is as good a dividing point in American cultural life as you are likely to get. 
It's obvious that the Academy means this award as a binary decision on American brains. The other three movies seem deliberately picked for their irrelevance. Four Weddings and a Funeral , a sissyish romance, and Quiz Show, a well-made but otherwise unex­ceptional and unambitious drama, both define the kind of movies that don't win Oscars. The Shawshank Redemption, with its uplifting tone, is a more likely candidate, but no one saw it, and it has a zeitgeist quotient of minus one. The academy went out of its way not to nom­inate any strikingly original film (The Hudsucker Proxy), any classy import (The Madness of King George), or any star-powered sentimental favorite (Nobody's Fool, Nell.) That tells me that their antennae, crude as they may be, have managed to pick up the social waves of the Gump/Pulp Fiction dichoto­my. Actually, now that I think about it, the award may go to Quiz Show so as to avoid having to make the call, and alien­ate either of the two camps. 

I guess at this point I should spell out for any older readers what camps I mean. I assume that my target Observer audience doesn't need to be told. But I will spell it out anyway: Forrest Gump is for conservatives, lamesters, squares, saps, and ding­dongs. Pulp Fiction, even with all its terrible flaws (Fabien, Esmerelda) is for the alert, the hip, the apolitical, the cognoscenti, and other terms with which I describe myself. Cool people, in other words. 
Here, I suppose, some readers may rear their heads back. So I'm a lamester, am I? Just because I like Forrest Gump more than Pulp Fiction! Yes, my good woman, I'm afraid you are. Gump's bloated little morality tale of the buzzcut moron who rises above the temptations of cynicism and coun­terculture is little more than an invita­tion for a Republican line-dance. I will grant that its newsreel tricks are enjoy­able enough, though Welles did it better (Kane on a balcony with Hitler) and Woody Allen best in his fantastic Zelig. But the energy behind Gump is as stolid and reactionary as "Okie From Muskogee," which it so closely resem­bles. You have to hate Tom Hanks, too, for his whorish embraces of love-me movie leads. To go from playing a per­secuted AIDS victim to Gump in one year should really put Hanks in the cheap sympathy hall of fame. 
But that's not my problem with Gump. 
I don't mind rah-rah movies for squares; I've even gone to a few of them. But this is after all the age of Tarentino we are living in, and the academy has no business trying to turn back the clock. I wish nobody but a happy few know about Quentin Tarentino; I think he's too good for mass consumption, and I think the gross shortcomings of Pulp Fiction (its loath­some, whining, dead-weight non-Mia female characters, for example) are due to QT trying to please a larger audience. Reservoir Dogs is the most perfect movie he, or anyone else, will ever make, and he made that largely for himself. There is also a certain human quality in Reservoir Dogs which Pulp Fiction lacks, but that is another essay. The point is that Pulp Fiction, whatever its faults, is irresistibly attractive to whatever is cool in the American audience. In its best moments, and there are many of them, deep calls to deep in the cosmos of American style; Tarentino, more than any American director, defines the cool sensibility, circa 1995. Gump, by gath­ering up those clueless many for whom 
' G ump's bloated little 
morality tale of the buz­
zcut moron who rises above 
the temptations of cynicism 
and counterculture is little 
more than an invitation for a 
Republican line-dance.' 
Pulp Fiction is too unwholesome, too violent, and too disturbing, builds a fortress for philistines, and draws the line behind which weak-minded babbitts of every stripe may gather. 
Forrest Gump for Best Picture? Not in my country, it isn't. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. He can be reached over e-mail at: joshua. a. ozersky.l@nd. edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NES6UHY 
lOM/3-' 


I'mCICtuai"!Y fully clothed. 
• LEnER ro THE EonoR Gay policy inhibits progress We, the students of Butler University's Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual student group, are con· cerned about the decision to no longer allow the GLND/SMC to meet on your campus. We find it shocking and Inappropriate for a university such as yours not to address the needs of homosexual students nor recognize them l!.S an integral part of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity. This is a major failure on the part ofyour institution. Notre Dame's college catalog states that "Notre Dame's Catholic charac­ter is a call to be a welcoming place, a kind of extended family where indi­viduals from all backgrounds and of every faith can both feel at home and be prized for their special con­tributions that they make." We request that you hold true to this character by welcoming and prizing the lesbian, gay, and bisexual stu­dents of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's. The GLND/SMC organization has made unique contributions to your campus by offering support, educa­tional programs, speakers and social opportunities for all students. Further. we doubt there are any other groups, departments or offiees on your campus that are solely serv­ing lesbian, gay, and bisexual people. Therefore, we ask that you remain true to your mission of administering a wide range of cultural, social, edu­cational, and recreational programs for all students by offering a safe place for lesbian, gay, and bisexual students to meet. BUTLER ALLIANCE Buder University  
• QUOTE OF THE DAY ''Jdo not participate in any sport with ambulances at the bottom of the hill." -Erma Bombeck  



VIEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 23, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
GLND/SMC gains support from U. of Minnesota 

Church should defend basic civil rights 
Dear Editor: The students I met were the It is time for us as a Church to 
As a practicing Catholic who lucky ones. Shortly before I resume a responsible commitment spent years teaching in a major arrived on campus, Marquette to public morality. I urge you to Catholic university, I am dis­instituted a thriving undergradu­set aside your anxieties about con­tressed by decision of the Notre ate gay and lesbian support group. tributions from bigoted alumni Dame Administration to prevent who feel that such groups have no the Gay and Lesbian student group place on a Catholic campus. Each from meeting in the University year thousands of young lesbians Counseling Center. This decision 'It is time for us as a and gay men succeed in killing marks a serious infringement of Church to resume a themselves because of our adult academic freedom and is an cowardice and insensitivity in dis­
responsible commitment to 
embarrassment to all Catholics cussing sexual matters. Others are committed to social justice. public morality.' beaten to death by hoodlums who 
As a professor at Marquette translate our quibblings about University, the numbers of homo­natural law into brutal practice. I sexual students I encountered who Working in accord with the New pray that God will give you the had contemplated and even at­Catechism, which categorically courage to defend the basic civil tempted suicide stunned me . If rejects discrimination against any rights of all His people. proper counseling had been avail­person on the basis of sexual able to these students in high orientation, such groups play an JOHN WATKINS school, these near-tragedies might increasingly valuable role in Department of English never have happened. Catholic universities. University of Minnesota 
ND sets bad example for other institutions 
Dear Editor: minority in your midst. It concerns me deeply that 
I write as a member of the broader academic envi­lesbians and gays are among the only remaining ronment in this country with thirty years of teaching. groups toward whom it is still acceptable to discrimi­The recent decision to withdraw meeting privileges to nate. I would never have expected such cruel and big­the Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and St. Mary's oted behavior from a great university like Notre College seems totally capricious as well as indefensi­Dame. ble. Since I gather you have granted this same group You must know that other. campuses look to you for permission to meet in the University Counseling leadership in many areas of academic life. What a Center for the past nine years, to stop doing so now shabby model you set in this case-unless, of course, causes me to wonder what political or financial pres­you want to set such an example. sure you might be under. May I urge you to rethink this morally wrong deci­
Discriminating against individuals solely on the sion, looking for some more creative approach to a basis of their sexual identities flies in the face of the meaningful portion of your student body. Persisting in kind of open communities I expect us in higher edu­it can not truly be in the best interests of Notre Dame. cation to be fostering. Surely meeting privileges TONIMCNARON would not dare be withdrawn from your students of Department of English color or disabled students, or any other identified University of Minnesota 
The long, lonely road of missionary life begins ... 
It wasn't the first-class flight that the aren't-the-new-associates-anymore domestic Holy Cross Associates teased photo. Being relieved that everyone was us about during our August orientation. still speaking English. And yet. a,fter a quick stop in Miami­In the truck. On the road. Who was in just long enough for a couple of frantic the backseat with me? What were they phone calls home-and then a longer talking about? Trying to hold back tears one in Lima, Peru-about 10 hours as I realized that the time Katie, Scott longer-we finally made it from and I spent together as a community Cuernavaca to Santiago, Chile. was about to come to a close. 
And then a stop-light. Like a Chinese fire drill. And a few quick hugs. And Katie, Scott and Don were out and catching a bus for the country. And the
Meredith 
truck was roomier. And we head for the wooden house with the white iron fence and the pink-flowered tree that would
McCullough 

be my home for the next two years. In its own trite way, it is hard to 
iously count-down the days to March writing an awful lot about myself. Thatbelieve that just over two-months have when Santiago awakes from her sum­I am not describing how I was touchedpassed since we landed in Santiago. 
mer sleep and we are supposed to know by a particular person at work, or theTwo months. Snapshots of life. 
what we are doing. challenges faced at a particular job site, Sure we were tired and covered with Just enough time to get moved in, to 
Two months. or even the struggles of community just
travel slime. Sure we were nervous and begin practicing broken-Spanish with In just two months I have felt a wider­yet.
jittery. But there was a kind of excite­the neighbors. to get to know the bus range of emotions with a quicker turn­But slowly, slowly all this craziness isment too. Excitement to see our new system. Just enough time to celebrate over rate than I ever thought possible. starting to come together. The snap­home, to meet our new community, and Christmas and New Year's until the Excitement. Anxiety. Joy. Fear. shots of daily events. The multitude ofto graduate at last from our grueling break of dawn with potential friends and Elation. Relief. Loneliness. Loved. swirling emotions. 
language school days of Mexico to the adopted families, to learn where to buy Displaced. Needed. Needy. It is amazing to me that I have beenreal-life adventures as lay missioners bread and how to buy vegetables, to be Satisfaction. Confusion. Calm. More with my current community of Matt.
volunteering as Holy Cross associates. in awe of the musical talent of my new emotions than I know what to do with­Joelle and Annie for only two months.
Our reception in the Santiago airport house-mates. 

often three or more in the same hour. Amazing that I can have so much funwas something of a whirlwind. Enough time to learn the latest dance I have never so intensely experienced with Gabriel and Mauricio and theirCheering. Laughing. Hugging. An steps and all the words to classic Rap the constant need to be hugged, or to families (neighbors) using so few com­explosive mix of new blood and experi­tunes with a group of high strung high­laugh until it hurts, or to cry until there plete sentences. Amazing that comeenced veterans. It all happened so fast. schoolers during a few weeks of day is nothing left. March I will return to Andacollo schoolStaggering away from customs, our tiny camp, to go hiking in the Andes, to cele­I have never felt so estranged, so out to work, slam-dance and continue thecommunity of three was suddenly bom­brate a birthday. Time to adjust to life of place; but neither did I expect to seri­friendships that grew out of our daybarded by an intensely excited welcom­without a telephone, to depend on the ously wonder if two years just isn't camp experience this summer.
ing party, who in some reverse-Chilean mail, to try to deal with the death of a enough time to explore, to enjoy and to Two months since we touched down in manner was actually spending day two very-special woman over-long distance. 
live all that this country has to offer. Santiago. Two months of roller coasterat the airport after arriving a whole day Time to receive the advice of out-going I have never felt so self-centered, so rides. Two months. and it is just theearly the morning before. associates and witness the culmination acutely aware of what I am doing and beginning.
It's funny the things one remembers. of two years of growing friendships and how that effects me now, effects me
From the terminal to the truck. A powerful bonds as they said good-bye to 
later and effects those I care about. Meredith McCullough, Notre Dame '94,
stream of colors and faces. Seeing the Chile and her people. Time to learn the I am quite conscious of the fact that in is a Holy Cross Associate based inmountains for the first time. Watching finesse of dropping in for lunch. To visit an article that is supposed to deal with Sanitago, Chile.
Joelle, Matt and Don take their we-to potential work placements. To anx­an experience of service to others, I am 

.ACCENT 
Thursday, l;ebruary 23, 1995 


By LAURA SMITH 
Accent Writer 
H
ow many members of the Notre Damn and Saint Mary's commu­nities miss the football season? Probably not vnry many, but how many studnnts take the time out of their busy schedulns to sen a play? This weekend is your chance. The Saint Mary's Communication, Dance, and Theatre Department will be presenting "To (;illian on llnr 37th Birthday" in the Moreau Center for the Arts Little Theatre. 
The play, writtnn by Michael Brady, foeuses on tho life of a young widower, David, who is mourning the death of his wife Gillian. In the two years since the death of his wife, who died at the age of 35 in a freak boating accident, David, a brilliant collegtl professor, has quit working and has been living in the fami­ly's eottage with his 16-year-old daugh­t«lr Hache!. 
On the second anniversary of Gillian's dnath. whieh ironically occurred on her birthday, Gillian's older sister, Esther, and 1\sther's husband Paul visit David for the weekend. Esther attempts to force David out of his depression by threatening to take Rachel away from him. Paul, a colleague of David's, tries to lure David back to academics. 
The Director of the play, Mike Morris, is a new faculty mnmber at Saint Mary's. Morris chose this play because or its serious subject matter-human rtllationships-but also because of the play's conwdic aspects. 
"This is a play about the healing process after the loss of a loved one. 1\ventually this touches everyone," said Morris. "In real life, our most important moments are bound up in both laughter and tears". 
Morris has been involved with "To (;illian on ller 37th Birthday" in differ­ent capacities for over nine years. llowever. Morris notes that "every time you do a play, it presents unique chal­lenges and dillieulties." 
Morris has enjoytld this particular production, and for this, he credits the east. "This play is emotionally challeng­ing for actors. They are a strong cast." 
Tlw lead role is played by Adam Wtlil«lr, a sophomore Communications and Thnatre major. Wniler plays David, the young widower, who has isolated himself from everyone except his daughter and family. According to Weiler, "playing David is enlightening; it has put nw in touch with my abilities and emotions." 
Saint Mary's junior Kathryn O'Donnell. an English Literature and Theatre major plays the title role of Gillian, who assumes the role of a ghost in the play. According to O'Donnell, in the course of the play, "Gillian reveals some ugly truths about herself." 
As Hache!, Amberly Hershberger has the role of a mature young woman who has taken on the responsibility of caring for her father. 
Elizabeth Kernan, a senior Communications and Theatre major at Saint Mary's, plays Esther, Gillian's sis­ter. Kernan enjoys playing Esther "because she is a strong character who stands up for what she believes in." 
'This is a play about the 
healing process after the loss of a loved one. Eventually this touches everyone.' 

Mike Morris, Director 
The cast also includes Mike Kersey as Paul, David's friend and brother-in-law, and Melissa Younkin as Devin, the woman Paul brings to take David's mind off Gillian. 
The final member of the cast is Saint Mary's freshman Shannon Crunk, who plays a16-year-old family friend in love with David. 
Kersey, a Notre Dame senior Theatre and English major, commented, "I've learned a lot about myself. It's a great rush to be on stage and to be someone else for a few hours." 
According to Hershberger, a sopho­more Social Work major at Saint Mary's, ''I've learned a lot from the director, and it's been a thrill to work with people I've seen perform before." "To Gillian on Her 37th Birthday" is Crunk's first play on the college level. "I've learned what it's all about from the cast members who have more expe­rience." 
According to Morris, "It will engage the audience intellectually and emotion­ally. I would be surprised if someone could sit through the First Act and not be moved." Weiler said, "It makes you think about losses and what you can gain by overcoming those losses." 
"I would like students to come to sup­port us, to support the arts and not just athletics." According to O'Donnell, " 'Gillian' is a modern play and people should be exposed to modern play­wrights. It's a good play. It's better than watching TV because it's real." 
Students, faculty, and community can come see this haunting work about life and death at 8 p.m. Thursday, Friday, and Saturday and 2:30 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are on sale at the Saint Mary's box oflice in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Troop ND performers show off their moves to hip-hop and street music at the annual talent show. 
Feel the vibrations ... Catch Troop NO 
By CATHERINE FIELD 
Accent Writer 

M
us!c pulses. around you as you watch Troop ND clap, tap, wiggle, smile, shtmmy, shde and groove. Shake a shoulder, lift a knee, snap some fin­gers, and cross your feet. Show no fear as you move to, with, and through this vital music, and you too can become a part of Troop ND. 
If you haven't met Troop ND Dance Club, allow introductions to be made. This club of about 300 members and sixteen regular performers· is open to everyone who loves to dance to hip-hop and street music. The club offers dance classes at the beginning of the school year, as well as in the spring semester, following the club's performance in its annual talent show. 
The sixteen regular performers were chosen after the dance classes and try­outs for the troop ended in the fall. These students come from a variety of ethnic backgrounds, but their mutual love for street dancing is what unites them three nights a week for vigorous two-hour practices at the Rock. Troop ND's routines a~e created from various moves they've learned from dance clubs, music videos, frtends, and one other . 
. The Troop was formed five years ago by undergraduate student Ron Elizaga. Smce then, the Troop has danced at St. Edward's Carnival. various charities such as Big Brother/Big Sister, the Taste of Nations festival, and at basketball half-time shows. They have also performed at the International Student Organization Festival, representing American culture. 
The biggest event in the Troop's year is their upcoming talent show. whkh is one of the largest and most diverse displays of campus talent. Last year's show, which featured a judges' panel of local and campus celebrities, was a huge suc­cess, filling Washington Hall to capacity . 
The acts participating in this year's show, which will be hosted by student comedian Owen Smith, will be competing for prizes including gifts donated from local businesses, as well as a trophy. Troop NO will open and close the show, in addition to performing three other times during the show. 
The talent show will inclu.de a variety of entertainment ranging from Taiko, a Japanese drumming group, to a figure skating competition by a group of guys from Stanford Hall. (No; there will not be an ice-skating rink on stage. No there are no famous skating pairs residing in Stanford. Hmm ... Makes you wonder. do~sn't it?) The show is sure to provide music, dancing, laughter, and many sur­prises. St. Mary's/Notre Dame Dance Workshop, which specializes in formal dance, will be performing a modern dance for the show and Voices of Faith, Notre Dame's. gospel choir, will also be performing. The Troop has chosen a variety of entertamment for the talent show which reflects the wide diversity among Notre Dame students. 
' oance is expressing myself. It's something that is just natur~ al. It just feels right.' 
Melissa Gutierrez 

Lisa Miranda, the Troop's co-president. believes the Troop's purpose lies in dis­playing the huge diversity of talent and culture that thrives here at Notre Dame. She has been dancing jazz, ballet, and tap "ever since [shel can remember," but didn't start dancing in a formal group until she came to ND. Emile Edora, the other co-president, first became interested in dancing when breakdancing was popular-"a long, long, time ago," as he put it. 
When asked why she performs in the Troop, Grace Montenegro, one of the dancers, replied, "It's my favorite thing to do. This is my time for myself." Another performer, Melissa Gutierrez, explained, "Dance is expressing myself. It's something that is just natural. ltjust feels right." 
All the performers note that dancing is a good way to meet people with similar interests. Gutierrez added that she feels more at home with people with whom she has something in common. Edora said he initially joined the group because it had an urban attitude. He keeps dancing "because I enjoy the people in the group." 
Watch them practice and you'll ask yourself, "How on earth can they do that?" They make complex moves look effortless. They dance. jump, twirl, and move in perfect unison. 
They transform music and feeling Into beautiful form. And of course, through it all, they laugh, talk, and sometimes even sing the tune to which they are dancing. These dancers have defmitely been given the gift of groove. Dancing has been praised because "it is no mere translation or abstraction from life; It is life Itself." Watch Troop ND dance, and see them dance life itself. 
Troop ND will be performing Friday night at Washington Hall. Tickets for the talent show can. be purchased in the dining halls or from Troop ND members. 

----· ---­
-

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 23, 1995 



Diver Louganis to reveal he is HIV positive 
Associated Press Times report was "not entirely doctors, trainers and chiro­diving hall. And then silence, Angeles, I was really diving for accurate," but he refused to practors to be followed when­an eerie, frightening silence. the fun of it," he said. "But go­CHICAGO 
elaborate and would not con­ever blood is spilled by an ath­It took five stitches to close ing into the Olympics was a Greg Louganis, the only man 
firm other details of the book. lete in a U.S. delegation. the wound and there was the pressure cooker. I gave myself to sweep diving gold medals at 
The only information Random Louganis won his first medal, possibility that the accident a lot of obstacles. But I didn't ronsecutive Olympics, is in­
House would reveal from the a silver, at the 1976 Games in would take Louganis out of the get over them by myself. I had fpcted with the virus that caus­
book was that Louganis talks Montreal when he was 16 years competition. a lot of help." I'S AIDS, the Chicago Sun-Times 
about his homosexuality, old. He later remembered dis­Louganis was the only diver reported Wednesday. 
dyslexia, racism he suffered He was a member of the 1980 cussing the situation with to score consecutive perfect lOs Louganis, who won four gold because of his Samoan her­Olympic squad but did not get O'Brien, then the U.S. diving in an international competition. 
medals for springboard and 

itage, an abusive stepfather, to compete because of the U.S. team coach. He also held three world cham­platform diving at the Olympics 
teen-age depression and three boycott of the Moscow Games. "After I hit the board, I talked pionships, three Pan American in 1984 and 1988, will disclose 
suicide attempts. Four years later in the Los to Ron about quitting," championships and 48 national that he is HIV positive in an in­
Other major athletes who dis­Angeles Olympics, he domi­Louganis said. "We walked and titles at one point.
terview on ABC's "20-20" on 

closed they suffered from the nated the competition, complet­discussed all the things we had Born on Jan. 29, 1960,f-riday, the newspaper said. 
virus that causes AIDS were ing the first springboard-plat­gone through to get there. I de­Louganis was adopted shortlyLouganis, 35, disclosed that 
Magic Johnson and tennis form sweep in 56 years. cided to stay in and I'm glad I after birth and raised in El he was homosexual at the Gay champion Arthur Ashe. The boycott of the 1984 did." Cajon, Calif. 
r.ames in New York last year. 

Johnson retired from the Los Games by Iron Curtain nations Louganis went on to a second He was enrolled in dance,Since retiring from diving, he Angeles Lakers after first dis­kept many athletes away from straight gold medal sweep, tak­gymnastics and acrobatic class­
has pursued an acting career 

closing he had the AIDS virus in Los Angeles and may have left ing both the platform and es as a child but bad knees 
and appeared in an off­

1991, and Ashe died in some question about the gold springboard titles. When the forced him to give up those 
Broadway play. 

February 1993, less than a year medal performances by Seoul Games ended, he an­activities. 
The Sun-Times reported that 

after announcing he had AIDS. Louganis. nounced his retirement at age At age 12, a year after scor­in his forthcoming Random 
Telephone calls to Louganis' That convinced him to come 28. ing a perfect 10 in the AAU 
llouse book, "Breaking the 

attorney, Pat Benson. and back for the 1988 Games in "I felt it in my heart," he Junior Olympics, he began con­
Surface," Louganis revealed 

spokeswoman. Maggie Seoul, where his attempt to re­said. "That was a tough year. centrating on diving. "That's that he knew he was HIV posi­Meyerson, were not returned. peat was nearly thwarted by Some mornings, I could barely when my diving career really
tive when he struck his head 

A spokeswoman for "20-20" the accident when he struck his walk. It was torturous. But I did kind of shot through the roof." 
during a dive at the 1988 Seoul refused to discuss the contents head during a preliminary dive. it to myself. Maybe I didn't have he said. 

Olympics. 

of the Louganis segment on Louganis, the best diver in to take it to that extreme, but I Dr. Sammy Lee, an OlympicThe knowledge that his blood Friday night's show. the world, had jumped a bit too was so terrified because I was gold medalist, began coachinghad spilled into the pool deeply Ron O'Brien, Louganis' for­close to the board and caught getting older. The kids on the Louganis and took him to the troubled him, because he didn't mer coach, also refused to com­the back of his scalp on his way team were calling me Montreal Olympics in 1976. 
know whether he had inadver­ment as part of his part in the down. 'Grandpa.' It didn't help that I He quickly developed into the 

lfmtly exposed others to the 

book deal with Random House. Thrown off form, Louganis hit was turning gray. My competi­premier diver in the country,\'irus, the Sun-Times quotes the U.S. Olympic Committee the water awkwardly. It was a tors were becoming younger winning a score of national ti­hook as saying. 
spokesman Mike Moran said dreadful moment, a moment and younger. I felt like I was tles first at the University of Tom Perry, a spokesman for that since 1989, the USOC has every diver must fear most. racing against time. Miami and then at the 
the publisher, said the Sun-

instituted stringent rules for The gasp echoed through the "After winning at Los University of California-Irvine. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All cbssifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
If anyone found a Red and Green  SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS &  TREK 1400 BIKE  MODEL UNITED NATIONS  Need a job for next year???  
NOTICES  Power Ranger figure at the Morris Inn Bus Shelter on 2118/94 around  STAFF BOYS SPORTS CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY  $375 219·273·9382.  Toronto-Trip Top Twenty 20 I'll have a Midori Sour  Sludenl Activities is now accepting applications for 95·96 for:  
1.15 pm, please call 273·5906. My  RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  19 Navy's here! (The Complex)  Lafortune Building Managers  
Robin Hood  8-yr old son is heartbroken.  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL  86 Chevy Nova, red, auto, air,  18 You're going the wrong way!!!  Stepan Center Managers  
Showing Thursday  IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING  many new parts, looks & runs great,  (Rob)  lnformalion Desk Altendants  
I afortune's Montgomery Theatre  FOUND: miraculous medal on Fri.  ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball.  $3500 or best offer, 272·9342  17 Jell's not driving any more  Gorch Games Room  
B/1030 pm $1  AM near the ACC. Call Maureen at  Basketball, Drums. Football. Golf.  16 3:00AM emergency session  Buildmg Set Up Crew  
X3295 to claim.  Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse,  Mac Powerbook 145, 1 year old,  (Secretariat)  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  
Farley Hall Players Present:  Lifeguard, Nature. Nurses,  40mb, claris, word, & more.  15 Suites!  Ballroom Monitors  
LOST: A LONG BLACK  Photography, Piano, Pool,  $1 , 1 00/BO wade x3064  14 The Complex  Irish Express Workers  
[uripides' MEDEA  WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT  Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes.  ---------·  13 This resolution is a bunch of  Office Assistants  
A New Translation by Brendan  AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10  Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer,  $#!$#!$#! I Need A Ride $#!$#!  hot air (India)  Applications in Studenl Activities,  
Kennelly  (FISHER-WALSH DANCE)  Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski,  I desparately need a ride to the  12 I'm legal here! (Erin)  315 Lafortune.Deadline March 10.  
Performances begin at 8:00prn on:  PLEASE CALL CINDY AT  Windsurfing, Weights, Wood,  Houston/Dallas area for Spring  11 Get in before I change my mind  
Saturday, Feb. 25th  273·5399 WITH ANY INFO.­ Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  Break. I am for sale and will gladly  (2 bouncers)  JK  
Sunday, Feb. 26th  REWARD!!I!!  Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite  give you my life savings!!!! I am  1 0 l'trusl my navigator  HQ 1181.14 v93 1993  
Monday, Feb. 27th  406E, Boca Raton. FL33431,  also on the way to South Padre!!!!  9 What are we doing in Grand  26 February 4:15  
At the Loft in Lafortune  FOUND·  (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on  All I have is one tiny duffle bag & I  Rapids?!?  
Tickets are $4 at the Lafortune Info  Woman's silver ring in O'Shag  campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am·  am a nice traveler. I'll talk if you  8 This is 96 west not 69 east!!  I may be a lush . but I do not lust  
[)esk  Ladies' room. Call 631-8635 to  4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room ·  want me to, or I'll shut up & let you  7 Butler flew here  after my ex-boyfreind.  
identify  Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint- drive. I am 6' 180 lbs & can fit in  6$12 to go up-we WENT TO lhe  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms  ment needed.  your trunk. I'll even buy you top of  CN tower  Iowa girl,  
tor Graduation weekend. Minimum  LOST: Men's gold rope chain &  the line fast food at pit stops!!!!!  5 Dan's locked in the trunk!  I think it is your birthday soon.  
stay of two nights required. $125  crucifix at Stepan Center on Mon.  Call Andy at 4-1670  4 You waffle you lying Indian  They don't have your name on the  
advance deposit per room.  night 2/20. Please call David at 4­ GOING TO PADRE?  wh-re (Spain)  little board. Anyway, have a good  
\.  Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll Road, 15 miles from Campus. Send  1991. Reward. Thank you  I NEED RIDE TO HOUSTON I DALLAS AREA FOR  TICKETS  3 Lets ditch the guesl speaker to watch the X-files  day. Oh yeah. Bad@#% is really not bad. Everything will be okay.  
request by maillo 3011 Belvedere Rd. Elkhart, IN 46514 or fax to 219·  WANTED  BREAK WILL HELP PAY  $$$$  2 Lebanon is so hot! (SocHum) 1 AAAAh!  -----------· Way to go George and Johnny on  
262·1590.  AM FUN ON TRIPS  Need 4 Marquette GA's  advancing to the semifinals in  
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS  ANDY X1670  Call Ted x3402  !!!!!!!!TONIGHT @ CLUB 23!!!!1!!!!  Grace debates. Personally George,  
FREE LAUNDRY! I!  CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING  $$$$  THE BIG EARL BAND  I think you should have gone wilh  
Saturday (2/25) and Sunday (2/26)  FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  the sweater.  
m Lafortune and Badin Annex  BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH  GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  Help!  Get ready for the Blues Machine  
HURRY UP and reserve your two  CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS.  WHILE BUILDING YOUR  My father is coming from NY for the  Experience  Hey, let's go to Michigan City this  
hour time slot this Wed., Thurs.. or  GOOD SALARY, ROOM &  RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  Marquette game · I NEED ONE GA  weekend, we can have a wonderful  
Fri. at the Lafortune info desk.  BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.  (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ FOR MARQUETTE GAME  PS-> You won't think it's you but it  homecooked meal with my great  
SPACE IS LIMITED!!!  CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU,  UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  Please Call Pat x1130 ·Thanks.  is. I've been thinking...3 mos. & I'm  aunt!! Just kidding, I think we  
2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E.  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  gone forever. Let's drop the crap  should hang around here and we  
IIsed Texts Cheap!! Check out  BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494·  VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU·  HELP!!!!  and talk. I miss you, neighbor.  can all take over on Eddie and  
randora's Books 233·2342  6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON  DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­ I need one Marquette GA  learn that cool Terms of  
tiD ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat  CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM­ 265-7691  Father wants to see Irish play  •••••••••wARNING•••••••••••••••••  Endearment song!! Beware  
'l-3 sundays  LAFORTUNE  Nancy 271·7494  If you are driving to Philly for Spring  though, POTtery queen is touchy  
SUMMER JOBS  Break, don't call SchMeg!!  about her prized possession!  
I ove Affair  Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  I NEED ONEGA FOR MAR·  
Showing this Fri & Sat  PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  QUETTE ..... CALL MOLLY AT  If there are any gals interested in  don't you hale how the room smells  
f\'10:30 $2  ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129!  ADIRONDACK MOUNT A INS  284-5151!  C/W or line dancing, call the Kid at  like wood? ellen, you better get  
r.ushing Auditorium  WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa  NEAR LAKE PLACID  x1694  well soon. your cough is driving me  
ILOST & FOUND I Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $159! Key West $229! Daytona  CALL 1-800-786·8373  PERSONAL  2 LUSTY BABES need ride to Key West. Call Kim  nuts...hey girl next door, you're cool Barry,  
HELP! I've lost my 18 inch gold  Room with Kitchen From $12g! 1· 800·678-6386  FOR RENT  000 The Copy Shop 000 Lafortune Student Center  x4528 or Colleen 287 · 7353 and give your best offer.  Yes, you. From P.E.. my neighbor. This one is lo you. Only two and a  
necklace with oval-shaped pendant  WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE,  half weeks until sunshine and  
that has the initial "L" inside. It has  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING·  HOMES FOR RENT  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  "I want a head of lettuce."  shorts. I don't know if I can wait.  
'lreat sentimental value.  If you've  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  NEAR CAMPUS  CONVENIENCE!!!  "It's so big drinks skim milk."  Oh yeah, what about that light  
lound it, please call Liza @ X4991  on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­ 232·2595  Phone 631-COPY  "Check oul Kermit Hole."  switch?! Turn it on.  
panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Who can name this dining hall  
I nst: f. black and silver Swiss Army  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment  FOR SALE  •••••••••••••HELP!••••••••••••••••• I need a ride one-way to  table?  Congrats to the P.E. basketball team!  
watch. Reward offered.  available. No experience neces·  Philadelphia for Spring Break.  7B PE,  
 
f~all George at 289-8830  sary. For more information call1·  CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME  Willing to share expenses.  I know that you just use me just so  Girls who are obnoxious in class  
206·634-0468 ext. C55843  Immaculate Condo with the latest  Call Meg@ x-1255  you can get a classified about you  and talk the whole time can rot.  
I OST WATCH!!!!!  decor and sharper than new. Call  ----------------·  in The Observer. I'm not going to  
1 lost my watch 1n O'Shag room 208  Macri's Deli on the East Race  Harold Zeltwanger 291·9338 or  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER · I  take it anymore. This is the last. I  Hey Tara, your room smells so  
•1st Thursday, 2-16. It has a white  now hiring for all positions. It's a  ERA All Star Realty 255-8789.  lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9  swear. Unless of course you do  strong that I just can't stand it.  
t~r.e with a wide black band. The  great place to work, flexible hours  to a 3 in 8 weeks, without  something embarrasing this week- Tell your roommate to get rid of  
n11mbers are unique. It's very  and great pay.  For Sale: Technics 5-disc cd player  drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural  end lhat I can tease you about.  the fruity plug-ins please!  
•rnportant to me! Please call  Apply within 214 North Niles Ave.  w/remote-perfect condition $175 or  product-guaranteed results! Kelly  You know. SYR's always bring out  
fJ:mcy. 277-0655.  or call 280·4824.  best offer-X0640  (800)209-2150.  the best in everybody.  I want another orange.  

---------.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------I 
I 
Thursday, February 23, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NHL •NBA 
Mario-less Penguins Daniels to return as a Laker 
Associated Press With the Lakers, he is ex­while recovering from thumb
find greatness in Jagr 
pected to play at shooting surgery.
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
guard or small forward, where Both Ceballos and Jones are
By ALAN ROBINSON the regular-season champion 
Lloyd Daniels, who overcame 
two of the team's leading per­expected to remain out of\ «oci;m·d Press New York Hangers in the 1992 
drug problems to play two sea­
formers are out with injuries action until April. 
playoffs. 

sons with the San Antonio 
for at least another month. Jones, fourth in scoring onPJTTSBUHGII He followed that with a 94­
Spurs, signed a 10-day contract 
Jones, voted most valuable the Lakers with a 14.3 pointsThe Pittsburgh Penguins in­
point season in 1993. and a 

today with the Los Angeles 
player in the NBA All-Star per game average, and fourth
o.;ist they havm1't asked Jaromir 
team-leading 99 points last 

Lakers. He will be a replace­
weekend rookie game earlier highest scorer among the NBA's .Jagr to replace the absent season, yet still was considered ment for injured rookie Eddie this month, sprained his right rookies, was placed on theMario Lemieux. 
only a complementary compo­Jones. 

shoulder Sunday during a vic­injured list today. 
Y11ah, sure. 
nent of hockey's highest-scor­

Daniels, 27, was waived by 
tory over Portland. He leads all NBA rookies in 3­lin isn't always the second 
ing machine. With Lemieux 

Philadelphia on Nov. 12 after 
At the time, Jones had moved point shooting, making 72 incoming of Lemieux -who is? 
around, Jagr could never be 

averaging 4.6 points and in five 
from shooting guard to small 190 attempts. 
-hut at 2:~. when many ath­anything higher than a No. 2 games with the 76ers. He then forward in place of injured Daniels, a 6-foot-7 guard, av­IPtes are only beginning their star. 
joined the CBA's Fort Wayne 
Cedric Ceballos, the Lakers' eraged 5.7 points last seasonmajor-league baseball or NFL Now, with Lemieux out for 
Fury, averaging 27.2 points in 
leading scorer with 22 points with San Antonio and 9.1 points
rareers, Jagr already may be 
this season -and, perhaps, for 33 games. 

per game, who is sidelined as a rookie in 1992-93. 
1he NIJL's most visible. dy­good -following years of per­
namie talent. sistent medical problems, JagrIf lu~·s not, he's literally on •Nfl 
seems eminently capable of as­1he fast track to getting there. 
suming Lemieux's role as the "To me, he's the best player 
Penguins' leading scorer. and 

Montana denies surgery rumor
in tlw game right now," 
team leader. It is a highly visi­l'c~nguins coach Eddie Johnston ble, high-risk assignment few Associated Press Tuesday. and playing golf today." o.;aid after .Jagr's third-period 
would want and even fewer The newspaper, citing Condon said Montana, 39, has goal snaled Pittsburgh's 5-4 could successfully carry out. KANSAS CITY, Mo. unidentified sources, said not made up his mind about vic·tory Tuesday over Quebec. But, just as Lemieux often did The Kansas City Chiefs and Montana's decision apparently when he will leave football. Tlw first match up of the when healthy, .Jagr leads the the agent for Joe Montana said 
was motivated by his concern "The condition of his knee is ~II I.'s two hnst-record teams­Wednesday the star quarter­
NHL scoring race with 14 goals that the Chiefs have little not a factor in his decision 
tlw Penguins arP 13-1-2, 
and 16 assists for 30 points in back has no plans for knee chance of helping him reach a about when he will retire from !)unlwc is 13-:{ -was exactly 16 games. Even in a season cut surgery, contrary to a report fifth Super Bowl. the NFL," Condon said. "Joe is 
a-; hypml. with a tense. high­nearly in half by a labor dis­saying an extensive operation is Montana, the paper added, still making that decision." 
intPnsity third period featuring scheduled for next week. 
pute, he might threaten the wants the operation to assure Montana underwent ex­
•;ix goals, three lead changes "It's absolutely false," Chiefs
100-point mark-normally the him an active, pain-free re­ploratory knee surgery last 
anrla playoff-like atmosphere. full-season benchmark for spokesman Bob Moore said. 
tirement. month because of an injury in "It was like the playoffs out "He has no further surgery
scoring superiority. Tom Condon of International December. The Chiefs denied 
there," Jagr said. "We were scheduled. We talked to Joe last 
"lie is so strong and can Management Group, the then the surgery was more 
playing a lot of one-on-one carry the puck like no one night. His rehabilitation is com­Cleveland firm that represents extensive than anticipated.
hockey." ing along wonderfully." 
else," said All-Star left winger Montana, said no surgery is "We speak to Joe regularlyAnd who bc~ttnr for that style Kevin Stevens, currently out The Contra Costa Times of planned. about his rehab," Moore said. 
1han Jagr, who initially dis­with a fractured ankle bone. Walnut Creek, Calif., reported 
"Doctors have assured him "lie's doing fine. We're still 
played his singular ability to Wednesday an operation to re­
"Sometime soon, he will score that he is capable of playing counting on Joe to play next 
1 a kn over big games by rallying 50, 60, maybe 70 goals in a place cartilage in Montana's left football this fall," he said. "As a year. But there's always a flur­tlw J.emieux-lnss Penguins past knee is tentatively set for next
season." matter of fact, he's on vacation ry of rumors." 





J.P. & Dennis 
NEW fOCUS 

Want You 
to apply for the following positions in Student Government 
....... -.... 
~
~ 
COMMLINrTY AOlON 

All applications are available in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor LaFortune, and are due by·s:oo March 2. 
Executive Coordinator Student Life Department 
Campus Social Commissioner 
Commissioner for Campus Improvements 
Commissioner for Social Concerns 
Commissioner for Women's Concerns 
Commissioner for Minority Concerns 
Executive Coordinator Intellectual Life Department 
Academic Commissioner 
Commissioner for Campus !communications 
ICommiSSioner for Board of Trustees Reports 
Bookfair Commissioner 
Guide Commissioner 
Student Body Secretary 

Executive Coordinator ExecutiVeExecutive 
Coordinator of for Public 
Coordinator 
Special
for the Judicial 
Projects
BoardRelations 
Elections
Publicity CommitteeDirector 

Chair 

Legal Director 
Advertising Advisor 

We're
• ••• looking
•
Director of 

••• for a few
ND/SMC 
• 
Relations 

••··good men and 
•··women to help us
•
••• make Student •• • • Government become • • • "The Voice of N.D." 
•

••• BE A PART OF THE ACTION
• 
~ 
1....::: 
~~ 
_, 
-n..., 
-
~ 


-~------------~---~-­
-~~-­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 23, 1995 






Nebraska rallies, upsets Missouri 78-75 


Naticchia 
continued from page 20 
!\lurphy, who fell to Naticchia in I he quarterfinals a year ago, <;aid. "Now he's one of the more popular guys in the program." 
Along with being a returning l'hampion, the senior's pres­rnce around the boxing room and in the sparring ring has made him a familiar face this season. 
But even though he is a well known character, it doesn't mean he will be easy to beat. 
Naticchia battered his oppo­nents last year with an aggres­sive attitude and a strong right hand. lie relied on his offensive surge as a good defense, sacri­ficing a couple of hits on him­self in order to get inside and pound away at his opponent. 
This won't change. 
"I basically hope to do the same thing I did last year." the senior said. "The biggest thing I try to do is to be aggressive. I try to get someone on their heels." 
When Naticchia gets someone backing up, there's not much stopping him. But if there is a weakness, it's his hands moving 

Associated Press 
Tom Wald dropped in two free throws with 17 seconds left, and Jaron Boone added a thunderous dunk at the :05 mark Wednesday night as Nebraska rallied for a 78-75 victory over No. 14 Missouri. 
Erick Strickland had 27 points for Nebraska. and Boone added 22. 
Missouri's Paul O'Liney missed two free throws with 19 seconds left and the Tigers leading 75-74, then fouled Wald going for the rebound. O'Liney had 23 points. 
Seven-foot sophomore Sammie Haley, hitting career highs in points (24) and rebounds (12). had given the Tigers a 75-74 lead with a free throw at the :52 mark. 
Nebraska, unable to get off a shot, called time with 6 seconds on the shot clock and 23.5 on the game clock, and then threw the ball away. 
O'Liney, the Tigers' top foul shooter, missed badly on both attempts, enabling Nebraska (17 -9 overall, 4-7 Big Eight) to pull off one of the biggest upsets of the year in the confer­ence. 
The Tigers (18-5, 7 -4), with­out injured Julian Winfield, their top rebounder and No. 2 scorer, appeared to be pulling away when Kendrick Moore's basket gave them a 65-59 lead with 6:40 left. 
But Strickland and Boone led 
too low, exposing his head to jabs and quick right hands. 
"I have to stay active with my hands, but they do tend to drop sometimes," Natiechia said. "I have to work at keeping my hands up and not throwing the power hand as much." 
But he doesn't have to work at making himself a household name or a target for others to shoot for. 
"I love to compete," he said. ''I'll just let the chips fall where they may. If I lose, I lose. At least I competed. 
"But I can't expect to lose." 
a Nebraska charge, and the Huskers regained the lead at 66-65 on Strickand's 3-pointer with 5:19 left. 
Nebraska, an 82-74 loser to Missouri in Lincoln on Jan. 7, had only 10 turnovers to Missouri's 19. 
No. 11 Virginia 83, No. 24 Georgia Tech 60 
Harold Deane and Junior 
Burrough scored 19 points each 
as 11th-ranked Virginia reeled 
off its seventh straight victory 
and took a half-game lead in 
the Atlantic Coast Conference 
race by routing No. 24 Georgia 
Tech 83-60 Wednesday night. 
Curtis Staples added 17 
points as he and Deane each 
made five 3-point baskets to 
help the Cavaliers lift their 
record to 19-6, 11-3 in the ACC. 
It gave the Cavs a half-game 
lead over idle North Carolina 
(10-4). 

James Forrest led Tech (16­
1 0, 6-7) with 17 points in his 
first start since breaking a bone 
in his left hand in an automo­
bile accident almost four weeks .ago. 
It was Virginia's third victory 
since stopping Tech's nine­
game winning streak in the 
series. 

The teams played to a 20-20 
deadlock during the first 10 
minutes before Virginia took 
control. 

Deane had 8 points, Burroug 
7 and Jason Williford 4 in a 19­
6 burst that ended on Deane's 
3-pointer for a 39-26 lead with 
2:40 left in the first half. 
Freshman Bryan Brennan hit a layup and 3-pointer for the Jackets in the final two minutes to cut the halftime deficit to 39­
31. Williford added 15 points and Jamal Robinson had 11 off the bench. 
Travis Best, the ACC's leading scorer at 20.7 per game, made only 4-of-16 shots and finished with 12 points. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
CLIMBING WALL SCHED­ULE -The climbing wall is now open for use. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climb­ing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and any­one interested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. INTERHALL LACROSSE ­The RecSports office is offer­ing interhall lacrosse with the deadline being February 23rd. The mandatory cap­
tains' meeting will be at 5:00 PM in the JACC auditorium on the same date. Any ques­tions please call 1-6100. SPORTSTALK-Women's Basketball star Beth Morgan will be featured on Sunday night at 7:30 on WVFI 640 AM. CHALLENGE-U-AEROBICS­There are still spots open in some step classes as well as other aerobics classes. Stop by RecSports to register or call for more info at 1-5965 

r------------------------,
1 Buy 1 Dinner, Get the 1 • 2nd Dinner for 1/2 price! • 
I I
1Have dinner at the Emporium. Order one entree at the regular 1 lprice and get another entree of equal or lesser value for Half 1 aPrice! Choose from our Prime Rib, Steaks, Seafood, and 1 1chicken selections. All entrees include salad, choice of 
1 
1vegetable or potato and freshly baked bread & butter. 
1 
I ONE HALF PRICE ENTREE PEA COUPON I I Expires March 2, 1995 I 
L____~ ~== __~!_~ ~~~=~~ ~e~d.:2!4.::~~ 
Sunday, February 26 • 7-8:30 pm Thursday, March 2 • 7-8:30 pm Sunday, March 5 • 7-8:30 pm 
Mind, Body, Spirit-How do you "Theology 100 is over. I have this Bible What Is Christian Service all about? develop the spirit in the gray winter sitting on my shelf. There must be 
So much to do, so little time... 
of South Bend? some way to put It to use after all 
How can we live out the Christian value of
that study. After all, It is Lent." 
An experience of prayer followed by service for others? What is the relationshipdiscussion helping us to bring all of our Come participate in a form of prayer that between service and a strong prayer life?
life experiences to God in prayer. Get will bring the Bible alive in ways you may The panel will focus on their experience ofthe jump on a fruitful Lenten season. not have thought of before. Appreciate the relating the two challenges.
Sunday readings in a different light. 
Presenter: john Dunne, C.S.C., Department of Theology Presenter: Regina Col/, C.S.], Panel members: Facilitator: Mary Vaccaro, rector of Walsh Hall Department of Theology Greg Behr, Notre Dame student, Felicia Leon and Dan Driscoll, married couple, 
EACH SESSION WILL INCLUDE: AN EXPERIENCE OF PRAYER • PRESENTATION BY 
Katie Glynn, Notre Dame student, SPEAKER OR PANEL • QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD • REFRESHMENTS joe Ross, C.S.C., rector of Morrissey Hall 

Fri. 2/24 & Sat. 2/25 Carroll Auditorium 
I
$2 

i fEBRUARY 26, MARCH 2, 5, 1995 •
7 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. 

ND ALL THREE 

Thursday, February 23, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
UCLA not ready to be no. 1 
l ~ 
:\<Sociated Press erratic Bears (12-9, 4-8), are the only team to beat the Bruins at home this season, 100-93 on Jan. 28. The other Bruin loss came in their 
STANFOHD, Calif. 

league opener at Oregon Jan. 5. 
UCLA may not want it, not until late at night on 
"The head that wears the crown is very
April 3, but the Bruins are in line to become the shaky," Harrick said of the history of being top­
rww No. 1 team in college basketball in a few ranked in 1994-95. 
days. 
Alabama, North Carolina, Massachusetts,
First, however, the No. 2 Bruins must win 
Connecticut and now Kansas have worn the No. 
against California on Thursday night in Berkeley. 
1 mantle like a swarm of bees -losing games
Second, returning home for a Sunday game, 
within days or hours of being annointed No. 1. 
UCLA needs to repel Duke, a team looking for 
Harrick and UCLA's scoring leader Ed 
o;omething to restart a season gone astray. 
O'Bannon would prefer that proclaiming UCLA 
UCLA's claim to the top spot was strengthened as No. 1 wait until after the NCAA championship
with an uphill 88-77 victory at No. 19 Stanford game at Seattle's Kingdome April 3. 
on Tuesday night, after the Bruins (19-2, 12-2 "We feel we're a pretty good team but we're 
Pac-1 0) knocked off Arizona and Arizona State not thinking about the ranking. It doesn't say
last week at home. 
anything about, or does anything for this team. 
"I don't want it," UCLA coach Jim Barrick said We want to be No. 1 at the end of the season,"
of tlw No. 1 ranking. 
said O'Bannon, who scored 22 points against
Tho last time the Bruins were on top was 13 
Stanford and helped hold Andy Poppink (23
months ago. They took a 14-0 record into a road points) to six second-half points. 
ganw at Cal on Jan. 30, 1994 and lost. That "Ed O'Bannon is our foundation. I feel that he 
hngan a tailspin that gave UCLA five more is the best basketball player in America." 
dPI'eats in the regular season and a first-round Harrick said of the 6-foot-8 senior, who averages
:"JCAA tournament mnbarrassment, losing to 
19.5 points and 8.1 rebounds per game while 
Tulsa 112-102. 
usually guarding the opposition's toughest inside 
Not only did Cal upend UCLA a year ago, the 
force. 



Childress takes over in second half, leads Deacons to 64-52 win 
Associated Press run. 
By PETE IACOBELLI Clemson (13-10, 3-10) got half. The Wildcats opened with a Eric Eberz scored 25 points,
\ "m·ia ted I'res. within 51-48 with four minutes The Tigers went on a 14-3 20-6 run, including three 3­
and Jason Lawson added 20 as
left, but the Tigers made only run in the first five minutes of pointers by Eberz. lie finished 
No. 9 Villanova held off a late
CLEMSON, S.C two of their last seven field goal the second half to wipe out the first half with 20 points. on 
Penn rally to defeat the
Bandolph Childrnss scored 13 attempts. Wake Forest's 9-point lead and 8-of-9 shooting, including 4­of his 16 points in the second Merl Code had 15 points to go up 40-38. But Childress took Quakers 78-74 Wednesday for-5 on three pointers.
night.
half and No. 10 Wake Forest lead Clemson, which has lost its control after that. The Villanova front court of 
Penn's Matt Maloney hit a 3­
o;urvived a sluggish second half last four. Ilis steal and layin put the Eberz, Chuck Kornegay and 
pointer with 21.9 seconds to
lo beat Clemson 64-52 on Childress, Wake's leading Deacons up 42-40 and, after Lawson was 16-of-20 from the 
play, bringing the the Quakers
\Vmlnt!sday night. scorer at 18 points, has had a another steal, fed Duncan down field in the first half. Tim Duncan added 19 points history of poor shooting per­low as Wake led 46-42 with to 75-74. Maloney led Penn Villanova was coming off a 
(17 -5) with 25 points. 
and five blocks for the Demon formances at Clemson. He had 7:12 left. After Code's 3-pointer 77-52 loss to Georgetown on 
Penn's Jerome Allen missed a
Dr! aeons (18-5, 9-4 Atlantic. another one, going 2-for-12 cut the lead to 51-48, Childress Monday that broke an 11-game Coast Conference), who won for from the field. But Childress spotted Rusty LaRue at the top 25-foot 3-point attempt with 5 winning streak, including four 
seconds to play and Villanova
the seventh time in eight made 11 of 12 free throws, in­of the key for an uncontested 3-straight wins over ranked 
(20-6) was able to preserve the
ganws. cluding all 10 in the second pointer that restored Wake's 6 teams. On Saturday, the 


~~c;syli,~t~ 

Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets k Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 
(219)277-1291

South Bend, IN 46637 

·THE COMEDY CAFE 

COMEDYSPOR1Z 

PRESENTS... 
WHAT DO Tiffi FANZAND 
CO~ENTATORZSAY? 

"AN ARTFUL AND INCREASINGLY POPULAR FORM


COMEDYSPORTZ 
OF STAGE ENTERTAINMENT..." -SPORTS n.LUSTRATED 
"A BIG JnT WITH SPECTATORS!"
COMEDYSPORTZ, THE 90 MINUTE SHOW IN 

-TilE CIDCAGO TRIBUNE 

WHICH TWO TEAMS OF ACTORS PERFORM A 
''YOU'VE HFARD OF SPORTS

SERIES OF IMPROVISATIONAL COMEDY 
BARS, YOU'VE HEARD OF IMPROV-HERE'S A WACKY
SKETCHES BASED ON AUDIENCE 
HYBRID." -TilE DAn. Y NORTHWESTERN
SUGGESTIONS. 

'TilEJOKES ARE GOOD,TIIE COMPE1TllON IS KEEN...THE AUDIENCE HAS A GREAT TIME!"

WHEN: Friday, February 24 
-CIDCAGO MAGAZINE 
TIME: 9-llp.m. 

''IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT, YOU SHOUlD." -NORMAN MARK. NBC
WHERE: Haggar Parlor-SMC 
COST: JUST $2.00! 

victory with free throws in the
point lead. Wildcats scored an impressive
final seconds by Eberz and
Duncan had 12 of Wake 96-73 road win over then-No. 1 Jonathan Haynes.
Forest's first 18 points and had Connecticut. 
Villanova's Kerry Kittles, who
five blocks in the opening half. 
entered the game averaging
The Tigers only points dur­No. 7 Maryland 84, 
21.4 points, was 1-for-7 for 5
ing that span came when Code NC State 71
points.
hit two free throws to tie it at 
Penn opened the second half
23-all after Wake's Travis Joe Smith scored 20 points
with a 12-4 run to close to 52­
Banks was called for a techni­and grabbed 15 rebounds as
48 with 13:36 to play.
cal foul. No. 7 Maryland continued its
Allen hit a 3-pointer and then
Banks was guarded closely by homecourt dominance over 
an alley-oop dunk on a pass
Greg Buckner and threw his North Carolina State with an
from Matt Maloney on Penn's
elbows to get free. 84-71 victory Wednesday night. 
next· possession to close the 
Duane Simpkins added 16 points for the Terrapins, who have now won six straight against the Wolfpack at Cole Field House since January, 1989. Todd Fuller led N.C. State with 21 points. 
Maryland, 15-0 at home this season, had all five starters in double figures for the ninth time. Exree Hipp and Johnny Hhodes had 14 and 12 points for the Terrapins, who handed head coach Gary Williams his 1OOth victory at the school. 
Maryland (21-5, 10-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) outscored N.C. State (12-11, 4-9) 16-6 at the start of the second half to turn a 41-31 halftime lead into a 57-36 cushion. Simpkins scored six points during the run. 
The Terrapins held their largest lead of the game, 66-42, with 10:28 remaining before 
N.C. State rallied. Ishua Benjamin scored nine of his 11 points and the Wolfpack hit five straight 3-pointers in a 23-7 run that cut the lead to 73-65 with 4:47 remaining. 
But Maryland hit 11 of 12 free throws down the stretch to hold on. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 23, I 995 
•NBA 

Robinson's 34 leads Late Bucks run sends Bullets to East cellar 


Spurs past Suns I 05-100 
Associated Press free throws in the final 23 sec­onds to clinch the victory. 
Associated Press Hornets 100, Kings 89 Each of the wins has been by MILWAUKEE Baker and Eric Murdock each
at least 19 points and Indiana 
Todd Day scored 21 points finished with 17 points. 
David Robinson scored 34 

has shot at least 50 percent in
Alonzo Mourning had 29 and ignited a late 7-0 run to 
Cheaney led the Bullets withpoints as the San Antonio Spurs each game. 

points and 17 rebounds as the help the Milwaukee Bucks beat 
22 points, and Juwan Howardbeat the Phoenix Suns 105-100 

Six Pacers finished in double
Charlotte Hornets beat the the Washington Bullets 100-92 
had 20. Chris Webber finishedWednesday night for their 12th 

figures, with Rik Smits adding
Sacramento Kings 100-89 on Wednesday night. 
with 18 points and nine re­
victory in 14 games. 

13 and Antonio Davis adding 11
Wednesday night. The Bullets have lost 11 of 
bounds.
San Antonio took its first lead 

in his return from the injured
Muggsy Bogues and Larry their last 12 games and fallen 
Eric Mobley's dunk put theof the second half on Elliott's 

Johnson each had 19 points for list. to 12-39, the worst record in 
Bucks up 73-65 with 4:49 leftbasket and free throw with 1:48 

The loss spoiled the return of
the Hornets, who went on a 10-the Eastern Conference. 
in the third quarter, but the
IP.ft. He had six points in the 

Derrick Coleman to the Nets'
3 run to lead 72-58 with 3:06 Day made a 3-pointer to give 
Bullets got seven points fromfinal two minutes as the Spurs 

remaining in the third quarter. lineup. The power forward had Milwaukee its first lead of the 
Scott Skiles in a 12-3 run andrallied to extend their winning 

14 points and 10 rebounds af­
The Kings opened the fourth fourth quarter, 89-88, with 
took a 77-76lead going into the streak to three games. 

ter missing six games with a
quarter by outscoring the 2:49 left. Day then stole the ball 
final period. 
Phoenix has lost three of four 

chip fracture of his pelvic bone. 
Hornets 9-0 to pull within 76-from Calbert Cheaney on the 
Neither team Jed by more
after starting the month 5-l. 

Kenny Anderson and Chris
75 on Michael Smith's free Bullets' next possession and 
than four points in the secondSean Elliott scored 19 points 

Morris also had 14 as New
throw. Marty Conlon hit a jumper to 
quarter, which had 16 lead
for the Spurs and Dennis 

Smith later was whistled for a Jersey lost, its second straight at put the Bucks ahead 91-88. 
changes.
Bodman had 24 rebounds. 

home.
technical foul, and the Hornets Seconds later, Murdock inter­
Howard scored three of hisCharles Barkley led Phoenix 

Miller, who had 13 points in
went up 85-81 on Johnson's cepted a Cheaney pass and the 
12 first-half points in the final
with 22 points, while Dan 

the first quarter and did not
layup with 5:17 to play. Bucks went ahead 93-88 on 
32 seconds of the second quar­Majerle had 19 and Elliot Perry 

play in the fourth, proved too
Hersey Hawkins then came two free throws by Yin Baker 
ter to close the Bullets to 50-49.
16. 

much for the Nets in just 24
up with two steals on the Kings' with 1:44 remaining. 
Mobley, making his secondAfter Perry tied the game at minutes.

next three possessions, and a Johnny Newman's 3-pointer 
straight start and third of the')8 with 1:34 left, Elliott gave 

The All-Star guard hit 9 of 16 
10-2 run put Charlotte ahead with 35 seconds left gave the 
season, sparked the Bucks with San Antonio the lead· for good 

from the field and had 2 of his 
95•85 with 1:27 remaining. Bucks a 96-90 lead, and 
seven points as Milwaukee took 16 seconds later on a jumper. 

5 3-pointers and a three-point
Hawkins finished with 17 Milwaukee made four of six 
a 25-23 first-quarter lead. 
The teams traded free throws 

play in a 17-4 first-quarter
points.
before Elliott clinched the vic­

spurt that gave the Pacers the
Walt Williams had 28 points

lory with a 3-point shot with 10 
Sorry we missed the party! lead for good. 
for Sacramento, which shot 42seconds left. 

Indiana Jed by a dozen at the
percent overall. Leading scorer. The game was played before 

end of the first quarter and by 
· Happy 21st
Mitch Richmond was only 7-for­
nn Alamodome crowd of 

10 at halftime.
23 from the floor, and finished:14,215, the largest in the NBA 

New Jersey twice got within
with 15 points. 


Blrthday
lhis season and the Spurs' sev­

seven points in the third quar­
The Hornets shot 61 percentPnth of more than 30,000. 

ter, the last time on a 3-pointer
in the first quarter to take a 29­San Antonio closed within 7 4­

by Chris Morris with 5:30 left in 
22 lead. Sacramento shot just71 with 4:14 left in the third the quarter. 

30 percent in the period. 
quarter, scoring four points on 

However, Miller buried two 3­


WcgrndJy~
In the second quarter. the a possession when Phoenix 

Kings' accuracy didn't improve pointers and New Jersey never ~ard Danny Ainge was ejected 
got closer than 10 the rest of
much. Sacramento hit just 39after disputing a call by referee 

percent, but trailed only 50-45 the way. Indiana led by as FOR REAL!
llue Hollins. 

many as 23 points in the fourth 
at halftime.
Phoenix scored the next 

quarter. 
seven points, finishing with a 9-Pacers 113, Nets 94 The Pacers were 44 of 76 Love,] spurt to take an 83-7 4 lead 
from the field. The Nets were 
after three quarters. 

31 of 76, or 41 percent.
Reggie Miller scored 27
Robinson scored 15 points in 
points and the Indiana Pacers
1he second quarter, but the 
shot 58 percent in defeating the 
Suns hit 11 of their first 14 
New Jersey Nets 113-94
'>hots in the period to take a 56­
Wednesday night for their
:i3lead. 
fourth straight victory. 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
1994-95 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
AN IRISH CELEBRATION WITH 
THURSDAY, MARCH 2 7:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219!284-4626. 
/'\ORffiU CfnHR 
fOR lt1t <fl RTS 
Mom, Dad, Lisa & Gidget 




aJB· StANFOJIQ 
Contestants: Tim Fusco MC's: 
Matt J(arr 
Mike JohnsonJim Schmiedeler 

Mike Donnino

Pat Shane Tom Eckert 
Saturday, February 25, 1995 Stepan Center 
8:00PM Tickets: $3.00 (Available through Stanlord Hall and at the door) 
All proceeds to benefit Logan Center 
r----~-----------_..,-r---~~------~-­
Thursday, february 23, 1995 page 17The Observer • SPORTS 
• 

Second period key to Red Wings' win 
Shawn Burr and Dino Ciccarelli seored goals early in llw sncond pnriocl as the Detroit llnd Wings incrnasnd their win­ning strnak to four games with a 4-1 victory ovtlr the Toronto \lapin Loafs on Wednesday !light. 
The Bed Wings, who beat Toronto 4-2 on thn road :\tonday night. dominated the Parly portion of the game, but l'ailnd to seored until Vyarlwslav Kozlov beat Damian l!hodns from the top of the eir­l'!ll at lUll. 
Vladimir Konstantinov had a goal disallowed earlier when nd'eree Paul Stewart ruled l>oug Brown kieked the puek into thn net. Beplays seemnd to indieatfl the puck hit Dave I:llntt's skate, but a glitch in the rPplay booth preventlld the call l'rorn bning overturned despite a l11ng dnlay. And seconds later, I ;nlg .Johnson beat Bhodes with a slap shot that hit the goal post. 
Toronto tied the game at 
II :46. Todd Gill dumped the puck into the Dntroit end, and Kozlov tried to cateh it. but I'Otll d n 't hang on. and Dave 
\ndrnyehuk popp11d it past C:hris Osgood. The Maple Leafs had a two-man advantage for :;(, stlconds latn in the period, hut c~ouldn't S(~ore. 
Burr put the Bed Wings :dwad 4 7 seconds into the sec­ond when lw put his own rebound past Bhodes, and Ciccarelli made it 3-1 at 4:25 by diving to beat .Iamie Maeoun to l'aul Coffey's rnntllring pass. 
Toronto had several chances in the third period, including two power plays, but couldn't beat Osgood. Johnson linished the scoring with an empty-net goal. 
Whalers 3, Bruins 2 
Darren Turcotte scored with 
2:01 remaining in overtime to give the Hartford Whalers a 3-2 vietory over the Boston Bruins on Wednesday night. 
Skating four-on-four after off­setting roughing penalties, Turcotte picked up the puck al'lPr Hobert Kron was hit by a defenseman in the slot and wristed a shot up past Blaine Lacher. 
Geoff Sanderson and Chris J>ronger also seored as llartford beat Boston at horne for the first time in live games, despite bfling outshot 44-20 and coming up empty on all four of its power-play opportunities. 
Sean Burke, who had 48 saves in Hartford's 5-4 loss at Boston earlier in the season, linished with 42 this time and won the lOOth game of his NHL career. 
Cam Neely and Ted Donato seored for Boston, which hadn't lost to the Whalers in Hartford since another overtime game in November of 1992. 
Both teams had two shots in overtime. 
Lacher, returning after miss­ing four games with a right hamstring injury. didn't have to work as hard as Burke but made some key saves in the third period after Donato's sec-

NHL melting pot 
In 1967, Canadian-born players made up nearly 97 percent of the National Hockey League. With the influx of players from other countries, the NHL is beginning to look like the United Nations on ice. 
Nationality breakdown in the NHL by birthplace: 
Czech Rep. 
4.0% (26) 
Russia 7.2% (47) 
u.s. I 

17.9% (117) I 
Note: 

based on rosters of Jan. 25, 1995. 
Number ofplayers in parentheses. 
Source: NHL 
ond-period goal tied the game 2-2. 
Islanders 3, Sabres 3 
Brad Dalgarno scored with 
11:30 remaining in the third period as the New York Islanders rallied from a 2-0 delicit to tie the Buffalo Sabres 3-3 on Wednesday night. 
Dalgarno knocked a rebound past Dominik Hasek, who made the initial save on Troy Loney. Hasek, last season's Vezina Trophy winner, linished with 26 saves as the Sabres dropped to 0-3-2 in their last live games. 
Craig Simpson put Buffalo ahead 3-2 when he poked a re­bound past Islanders goalie Tommy Soderstrom, who bob­bled Doug Rodger's initial shot from the point. 
Simpson has four goals this season, three in his last two games. 
Soderstrom, acquired from Philadelphia during the offsea­son, made 28 saves in his fourth conseeutive start. 


Men's 
continued from page 20 
Down 50-47, Grace's Charlie Stafford skied to grab a missed 0-C free throw to ingite a Lighting fast break with 10 sec­onds remaining. Stafford took a pass at the left elbow and was fouled as he missed a game-tying three-pointer. Stafford, who led Grace with 23 points, calmly stepped to the charity stripe to drain the first of the two. However, the eoeky wide receiver missed the next two. 
"I wish I could have those free throws back," said a disappointed Stafford. "I feel like I let my teammates down. 
Grace still had life before a missed free throw follow-up by 0-C's Pat Keaney with three seconds left ended it. 
A former basketball walk-on, Keaney also did his best Marcus Young impression as he missed three of four (includ­ing two one-and-one front 
f3aua#la~ ~aft 1'~ ~ 
I&ec~Iess 
By Craig Lucas Tuesday and Wednesday Feb. 28th and March 1st 7:30p.m. Washington Hall Tickets Available at LaFortune Box Office $3.00 
Sweden 
3.4% (22) ·­
·­

Finland 
,1.5% (10) +­
I 1 Other 3.7% (22) 
ends) down down the streteh, but he was in the right place at the right time to make up for it. 
"They thought they had the rebound, but it just squirted out" Keaney said of his loose­ball luck. "I was just glad to be able to do something after my misses from the line." 
Making up for his misses was something Strong didn't have to worry about. lie just didn't miss. 
Truly "en fuego" from three­point land, Strong tickled the twine live times without miss­ing. 
"My teammates Pat Keaney and Bryan Corbett set great baseline picks for me," Strong acknowledged. "I just made my shots." 
Stafford who always talks a great game, had plenty to back it up last night. lie drained six of eight from downtown to carry Grace. But without much other help, it wasn't ·enough. 
The Crime, in addition to the key contributions of Keaney and Corbett, got some gritty play from guard Jeff Goddard. 
Toward the end, the quick Goddard, with some help from Keaney, was able to effectively shut down Stafford. 
"Jeff's quickness and Pat's long arms helped after he made a few," said Strong. 
Grace seemed to have an edge on the glass, as the Lighting's Todd Leahy was a constant force inside. However, 0-C got the key buck­ets when needed to maintain a slight lead throughout. 
Accelerated Program in Nursing 

• Earn a B.S. degree in nursing • El.igt"bility requirement: baccalaureate degree as of May'95 • Program begins May 30, 1995 and endsJuly, 1996 Application materials must be submitted by March ]...1995. For more information contact, 
Saint Mary's College Admission Office at (219) 284-G87. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 23, 1995 

Irish to defend first place versus Huskies 
:Jarley 2/all Players Present: 
Euripides' 





Medea 
New Translation bu Brendan t\mncllu 
Performances begin at 8:00pm on: 
Saturday, February 25th Sunday, February 26th Monday, February 27th 
At the Loft in Lafortune 
Tickets are $4.00 Available at the Lafortune Information Desk 
....a 
VARSITY SHOP 
..... 
• 
Baseball 

• 
Cross Country 

• 
Fencing 

• 
Golf 

• 
Lacrosse 

• 
Soccer 

• 
Softball 

• 
S\IVinnning 

• 
Tennis 

• 
Track & Field 

• 
Volleyball 



Season over for Kurowski 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame head basketball coach John MacLeod has announced that junior guard Keith Kurowski will not play or practice with the Fighting Irish basketball team for the remainder of the 1994-95 season. 
Kurowski underwent high frequency radiowave surgery on January 24 to correct the Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome that was diagnosed in his heart and missed six games as a result of the condi­tion. All tests indicate that Kurowski is fully cured from the syndrome and his heart is in fine condition. 
"Keith has missed a great deal of classroom time during his treatment and he needs The Observer/Kyle Kusek time to take care of academic Because of time missed due to a heart ailment, Kurowski needs to get 

back into condition and catchup with school work. 
work," MacLeod said. "He has lost strength and endurance 
during this procedure and needs more time to be fully 

THE NAIL STUDIO 
conditioned." Kurowski returned to the 
AT THE CASTLE ~ court on February 12, playing 10 minutes against Kentucky and scoring one point. 
Special Set ot Nails ~/ · 
by Jody on y
He came off the bench in the first 16 games of the season 
R:!'~~~l~P~! ,,!~ 5
and averaged 11.1 points per 
Just Minutes from Campus 
game and was the second-lead­
•272~0312•
ing scorer on the team. 
S.R. at Ironwood • 54533 Terrace Lane 





HEY SENIORS 
THEFREDDYJONESBAND 
AT ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
SAT., FEB. 25™ $6 @DOOR 

DOORS OPEN@ 9 P.M. ~ 
~~ 

ByKC Goyer Sports Writer 
The Irish will travel to Northern Illinois tonight to defend their first place position in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
Northern Illinois is a new addition to the conference this year. Last season, the Huskies were 18-0 in the Mid-Continent Conference as well as confer­ence champions. 
The Huskies will return eight letterwinners from last year's team including 3 starters. Currently, the team is ranked fourth in the MCC conference. 
Notre Dame was undefeated in the MCC until they fell to La Salle University last weekend. Conference rival Butler is now close on the heels of Notre Dame with a record of7-2. 
Notre Dame has won 12 of their last 14 games, led by the scoring efforts of Beth Morgan. Morgan has been sidelined the last two games because of a knee injury, but is expected to play tonight. 

''I'm feeling much better," Morgan said, ''I'm looking for­ward to playing." 
Senior Letitia Bowen will look to earn her seventh consecutive double-double in as many games. 
Sophomore center Katryna Gaither is another scoring and rebounding threat, as well as a leader for the team in field goal percentage. 
Both Notre Dame and Northern Illinois advanced to the NCAA tournament last year, though both fell in the first round. Notre Dame is 7-5 in the series against Northern Illinois, although the last time the two teams met was in 1988. 
Wo01en's 
continued from page 20 
really good team. I'm really proud of how my team went out and put everything out on the court." 
Remarking on PE's game as a whole, Miklavcic remarked, "We usually play better in the second half. The win was a total team effort; without the team unity, we never would have made it this far." 
PE players were especially 
proud of the win because of 

their previous experiences with Walsh. Lisa Deibler, PE's cap­tain, stated, "After two years of being beaten by Walsh in the playoffs, it is great to have this championship." 
Walsh had an excellent showing of their skill on the inside with Kelly Nicholas and the parameter by Jenna Gwynn. The Pyros powerful defense, strong rebounding and speed led them to the win. Furthermore, as Ed Tadajweski, one of PE's coach­es, said, "It all came down to the team that wanted it the most." 

Thursday, February 23, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
• OF INTEREST Notre Dame Forum on Academic Life: "The Relationship of Teaching and Research at Notre Dame" delivered by Prof. Arvind Varma today at 7:30pm in the CCE Auditorium. Student Activities is now hiring students for the 95­96 academic year. Positions available in all areas. Applications may be picked up in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. Deadline for apply­ing is Friday, March 10. Jose Casanova from the Department of Sociology at the New School for Social Research will be speaking on "Transnational Catholicism and Globalization" today at 4:15pm in C-103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Tickets to Farley Halls Medea will be available at LaFortune Information Desk. Leave your name at the dask and you will be able to pick up your ticket the night of the performance. For questions, call Moira at 271-9787.  
•MENU Notre Dame NORTH SOUTH Beef Tamale Turkey Turnovers Italian Chicken French Fries Rice Krispies Bar Glazed Peach Slices Saint Mary's Cod Parissienne Calzone Summer Squash  
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds  


~ ~"'~ ~ 
~· That's ·~ .@ 

~ right, FREE ~ ~ ":!!tf/ LAUNDRY on Saturday~ t:=:.; and Sunday, so bring all ~ ~ 
your dirty undies and those ~ ~ old gym socks from ~cTRACY CHAPMAN freshman year. ~ ; 
MlRRORlAND ""'f"H € RE ! PE RHI\P.S 
)we  is  H'l 1 RuE:  I.J:JV€ •••  
r ... T  N€€0 To  N>k {  
...  


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
A~D 11\E. !IIEH P-.RE ~o Bt:.nt.R. 1\\t.'fR£ Bti\JDDLt.D MORc1/-.IS, \\EJ>..IJ'i DR\~K~R'S, GL\l\TO~S. f*lO \A"Z.'i Goof· OH''S! 
., E:I/ER~ON£ IS \NCDMI>ETEN.T, 
i \JNf>..WI<t.c\t>.TEI:>, P-.~ VN.'SI.JCC.ESSI=UL ! 



ALICE., I'~ ALI"\OST 
DONE WITI-\ YOUR 
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Adam's-apple warmer 
1 More 29 Succession of pronounced wins 1 Ladies 31 90's cartoon 
13 Law of the land 
character 14 Run 
32 Yankee #9 16 Proceeds as in 
34 Governess of 

a car chase 
Thornfield 11 They can't be 
36New 

beat 
Hampshire's 18 Bird: Prefix "Live Free or Die"?
11 Pre-Bond Moore role, with 36 Bessemer "the" product 
21 "On Boxing" 41 Jalapeno hot author stuff 22 Zodiac animal 44 San Antone sobriquet
24Wooden Mortimer 45 Director Lubitsch
28 Like autumn leaves 47 Ugly looks 1 Throwback 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
2 Dance with dips and leaps 
3 New Mexico's -Lake 4 Amer. election day 5 Lab heaters &Oozings 1 Habitants' home 8 Compliment, in away 9 Deejay's disk 10 Precincts -:+.::;.F.+=-1 11 Total control -=+::=+=-+=-! 12 Three-card monte shill 
l 1-\AVEN'T 1-\A.D AN APPRMSAL IN FOUR YEARS YOU t'\U5T BE STARliNG P... OOCUI'\EN­
TATLON Tf\Ml SO '<OU 
CAN FlR.E ME LATER 
) 
·vj 

49 Iron pumper's routine 51 Golden­(retirees) 53 Turkey meat request 54 Varsity H Giving the once-over 58 Year in Canute's life 59 Dodgson's illustrator 81 Utah emblem 83 Hall of broadcasting 84 Was useful &5 Canary's cousins && Greased the roast 
DOWN 
W\-\A.I ¥.1Nil Cll' 11-\'S\\)\O\l<; SOC\1>­~M\NG IS n\\'5 '?.' NO 'flONt>'CR 11\E WORlDS S\J~ A. t-\\0§! l ~M~I'l\) POL\1\C~\.L'i CORRECT, MORM.l.'l UI'LII=n\IIG ROlE ~IS \N 1\\t. ~V\IIl'-1\'CS! 

HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

BILL WAITERSON 
SCOIT ADAMS 

13 La-, Milan 15 Palestinian 
sectarian 20 Just-born cow? 23 Ibsen, for one 25 Hockey great 
Potvin 28 Champion's 
claim 30 Kind of farm 33 Prickly pear 35Sniggled 37 Peelable fruit 36 Class levels 

Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
39 Prepares for a fall 40 Tax form deduction 42 About 6,080 feet 43 Hit town 48 Like certain customs 
48 Went downhill 50 Better balanced 5219831ndy 500 
champ 55 Small model 57 Duds eo Strauss's "­
Heldenleben" 62 Holed up 




SPORTS 
page 20 
• BENGAL 
BOUTS 

Pyros gain revenge, burn Walsh 39-36 
By MARGE£ HUSEMANN press and some strong outside ~>ortS Writer shots by Shelly DeMott. Walsh kept the game close by playing 
It's not quite Hoosiers, but a strong, scrappy game. The it's close enough. After two 
lead exchanged hands several ~ears of being knocked out of times, and at the end of the 1he playoffs by Walsh, PE got third quarter the score was 1heir revenge. Last night PE 
tied at 27. d1ofeated Walsh 39 to 36 in the The Pyros ignited in the women's interhall basketball 
fourth quarter and, althoughrhampionships at the JACC. 
the first basket did not come Walsh started the game with 
until almost five minutes into a quick basket after the jump, the quarter, the Pyros earned n nd then got back on a tough the lead in the fourth with man-defense. PE quickly dis­
strong rebounding and a pow­sected the man with good shots 
erful man-defense. Laura inside by Kristina Ervin and Miklavcic made several clutch .Julie Lyzinski; however, it was 
free throws and ensured the not enough to earn the lead. win for the Pyros, 39 to 36. The Pyros were down by two at 
Regarding the game, Pat t11e quarter, and at the end of 
Carlevato, Walsh's head coach the first half, Walsh led by said, "The team put forth a three at 20 toPE's 17. 
heck of an effort, and PE was a The Pyros came out strong in 1he second half with a full court 
see WOMEN'S! page 18 
Thursday, February 23, 1995 
Rob Naticchia suprised in 1994. Now he is the target. 
By MIKE NORBUT Associate Sports Editor 
R
ob Naticchia's hands are always 
moving. Whether he's jabbing, 
parrying blows, or just standing in 
the ring, his hands are constantly churning like pistons in an engine. It's unorthodox from a boxing perspective. Aesthetically, it's not very pretty. But it works. He's undefeated so far in his short boxing career. 
The former Irish baseball player was hardly considered a threat to reach the 175-pound Bengal Bout finals a year ago, let alone take home the coveted crown. But the underesti­mated Naticchia ripped through the field, earning nothing less than a unanimous deci­sion in each of his three matches. 
The senior's ambush of the 1994 Bouts cul­minated with a technical knockout of defend­ing champion Kevin O'Rourke at the 1:22 mark of the first round. 
"I think it proved that I went out there to win," Naticchia said. "But I was a little sur­prised at how it turned out. I didn't go out there to knock him out." 
The victory thrust him into the spotlight, making him a favorite to repeat in this year's tournament. 
But it also makes him the man to beat. "Last year, when I saw the brackets, I had no idea who Rob Naticchia was," junior Todd 
see NATICCHIA/ page 14 

Crime steals championship, 52-48 
By TIM SHERMAN Assistant SportS Editor 

Off-Campus Crime is quickly becoming the juggernaut of men's interhall sports. Nowhere is that more evident than on the basketball court. 
Following their fall football ti­tle, the Crime won their second straight basketball champi­onship last night, as they pre­vailed over the Grace Lightning in a squeaker, 52-48. 
"This was a great team ef­fort," said 0-C's Ryan Strong, who paced the Crime with 21 points. "We were the seventh seed but we really came to­gether as a team against Flanner (earlier in the playoffs) and just kept it going." 
In their one point semifinal victory over Stanford, Grace hit their free throws down the stretch. Last night was a dif­ferent story though. 
see MEN'S! page 17 


of note...
SEASON OVER 
Notre Dame led all universities 

According to Irish head coach John MacLeod, 
with I 0 former players drafted 

junior guard Keith Kurowski will not play 
by the World League ofAmerican

for the remainder of the season. 
Football.

see page 18 




