
Thursday, November 9, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 53 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT !\1ARY'S 

By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
T-minus 363 days and counting. 
The Notre Dame student body kicked otT its involvement in the 1996 presidential cam­paign almost one year before Eloction Day as Keenan Hall sponsored a debate between the College Democrats and the College Hepublicans last night in that dorm's basement. 
One team from each side of the ideological fence present­ed arguments, fielded ques­tions from panelists and audi­ence members and weighed the merits of the budget pro­posals of their party's national political players. 
Democmtic debaters Patrick Lyons and Kelly Williams and Hepublicans Brad Hardin and Brian Hipp traded barbs, cracked jokes, brandished sta­tistics and shared a few moments of discomfort throughout the course of the hour-long debate program. 
Lyons and Williams opened the program by denouncing the "dangerous extremism" of congressional Republicans and their leadership. They railed against Republican spending plans of the 1980s and called several Republican-proposed methods of deficit reduction "cruel and heartless." 
"Gingrich, Dole and the rest of the Hepublican party are trying to blackmail America by threatening to default on the debt," Lyons said. 
Quoting from a New York Times article, Williams assert-
Revision updates duLac sex harrassment policy 
By DAVE TYLER 
News F.diwr 
In an effort to make its Dis­criminatory and Sexual Ha­rassment polieies more clear, the Ollke of Student Affairs re­leased a 13-page supplement to du Lac this week. 
The supplement d'oes not make any changes in the specifies of Notre Dame's ha­rassnwnt policy, but tightnns thn wording of the document, aeeording to Jeff Shoup, direc­tor of the Office of Residence Life. 
"The new language makes the poliey more clear," Shoup said. "It makes the discrimina­tory harassment and sexual ha­rassment policies more consis­tent." 
lneluded in the supplement is a more explicit set of guide­lines for following through on a harassment complaint and lan­guage defining disciplinary ac­tion. 
The new text does not alter the way the University conducts disciplinary hearings related to sexual and discriminatory ha­rassment, Shoup said. 
The supplements were dis­tributed to students earlier this week by residence hall staffs. 
Shoup said the Office of Resi­dence Life had planned to up­date the policy for the 1995-96 edition of du Lac, but work on the new version was not com­plete in time for the printing deadline. When University offi­cers finished revising the pol­icy, Student Affairs decided to take the unusual step of issuing a supplement. 
see DULAC I page 8 
ed that Republicans are plan­ning to raise taxes on the 13 million poorest households in America, while President Clinton has lowered the deficit by $120 billion dollars without raising taxes on the poor or cutting Medicare. 
Hipp in turn blamed the United States' $5 trillion dollar debt on "40 years of Demo­cratic rule," in his opening statement. "The Democrats got America into this mess, the Republicans will get America out." 
"Republicans have a sensi­ble plan to reduce the deficit by 2002, but Democrats don't like it because it cuts their favorite thing-government spending," Hipp said. 
see DEBATEI page 8 
• STUDENT SENATE 
NASAND asks Senate for support of protest 
Student Alliance, Asian Ameri­
But administration 
can Association, and Hispanic American Organization," held a
may say proposals 
demonstration which "particu­larly targeted the murals on the
are too unrealistic 
second floor of the Main Build­ing."
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
In this protest, Etsitty said,
Assistant News Editor 
NASAND was showing "another side to the story" of what is de­Requesting Student Senate picted in the paintings, which,support for its recommenda­according to the letter, depicttions to the administration, rep­scenes showing Native Ameri­
resentatives of the Native 
cans as "inferior."
American Student Association "We're not inferior," Etsittyat Notre Dame made an ap­said at the meeting. "This landpearance at the Senate's meet­was here before Columbus so­ing last night. 
called 'discovered' it." 
The Senate discussed a letter As stated in the letter, other
written to Vice-President of 
Notre Dame students have
Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara 
similar opinions. "Native
from "students of Notre Dame" American students, as well asthat was presented at the meet­many others, have experienceding by NASAND representatives great feelings of discomfort and Mary Etsitty and Sharon Jack­
son. pain by the depictions of Native Americans, African Americans,
In the letter, dated October and Christopher Columbus. 
27, 1995, it was stated that on 
"As members of the Notre
Columbus Day (October 9), NASAND, "with the participa­tion from members of Black see SENATE I page 6 
Hispanic group calls for boycott of Levi's jeans 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST port for the protest. Associate News Editor The tags will then be collect­ed by Fuerza Unida, an 
The campus chapter of the organization in charge of the League of United Latin Ameri­national boycott, which will can Citizens is calling for stu­mail the tags and any letters of dents to join a nationwide boy­protest to Levi Strauss in cott of the purchase of Levi's January, the sixth anniversary brand jeans in protest of Levi of the plant's closing. Strauss & Company's decision The protest has been in exis­to close a San Antonio plant, tence ever since Levi Strauss leaving 1,150 workers unem­closed the plant in 1990, but ployed six years ago. this year marks the first time 
LULAC is also asking students that the Notre Dame chapter of who already own pairs of Levi's LULAC has participated in the 501s, Dockers, Brittania, Offi­boycott. Fuerza Unida was cers Corp and Silver Tab jeans formed to help the 1,150 work­-all made by Levi Strauss -ers -nearly all of whom were to turn in the tags of the jeans Chicana, Mexicana or Latina to the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs as a sign of sup-
see BOYCOTT I page 8 

The Observer/Dave Murphy 
The beat goes on.... 
Siegfried Junior Kate Hillman took the stage last night at the SUB Coffee House open-mike night in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, November 9, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
ND deserves better than theWWF 
On Monday night, in 
what many consider a 
swift and stunning display 
of strength and speed, 
"The Heartbreak Kid" 
Shawn Michaels felled the 
immense King Mabel with 
his trademark crescent 
kick to the jaw, and then 
covered him for the pin­
fall. Fans, and propo­
nents of real wrestling, 
the collegiate or Olympic styles, consider it a 
sad distortion of their sport. 
But unfortunately, that match ended the 
World Wrestling Federation's card, and the 
only wrestling fans are likely to see in the JACC 
anytime in the foreseeable future. 
In 1992, Notre Dame's varsity wrestling pro­
gram was canceled. The circumstances sur­
rounding its demise have never been made 
completely clear. A brief announcement in the 
New York Times sports pages said the sport 
was axed because of a lack of fan support. 
Other statements have cited the athletic 
department's need to comply with NCAA Title 
IX and create a better gender balance among 
varsity sports as the reason for wrestling's end. 
Other rumors circulate about the stormy rela­
tionship between Athletic Director Dick 
Rosenthal and coach Fran McCann. 
While the real reasons behind the death of 
varsity wrestling may never come to full view, 
it is painfully clear that that death was untime­
ly. The program at Notre Dame was climbing 
the rungs of the sport, and had a long estab­
lished tradition at the school. 
There were many proud moments in the 
wrestling program's history, many of those 
moments still grace the walls of the JACC. 
Football All-American Dick Arrington earned 
that status as a wrestler in the 1960's while 
completing an undefeated season. Jerry Sachel 
went undefeated for three consecutive years. 
Football great Bob Golic finished fourth in the 
NCAA on his way to All-American stature in 
1977. The Irish claimed regional and Catholic 
championships in bunches. 
The 1980's and '90's brought new levels of 
excellence. In 1989the Irish had two All 
Americans on the same team. In 1992, the year 
wrestling was dropped, NO sent four men to 
the NCAA meet; and was ranked in the top 20 
for much of the year. Wrestling and Notre 
Dame always seemed like a perfect match. The 
Fighting Irish spirit always seemed well paired 
with the qualities collegiate wrestling instilled. 
The hours of hard work. The sacrifice. The 
lessons in responsibility, teamwork, indepen­
dence, resiliency, and discipline. 
Unlike the Stamford, CT-based WWF which 
by law must claim to be "sports entertain­
ment," olympic wrestling is truly sport. The 
matches place destiny squarely on the shoul­
ders of the individual. No goalie to make the 
big save, no linebacker to recover the fumble. 
Wrestling is a battle of strength, courage, 
determination and savvy. It is a beautiful sport 
whether you watch or participate in it. 
Title IX has done great things for this 
University. Look no further that the women's 
soccer or volleyball teams for proof of that. The 
praise and glory they have brought the school 
speak volumes about the rule. But the 
wrestling team was well on its way to bringing 
similar accolades. Now the question of what 
may have been at Notre Dame for this noble 
sport is moot. It looks like The Heartbreak Kid 
may have scored the last pin around here for 
quite some time to con.e. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• Too~w's STAFF 
Graphics News Brian Blank Heather "what's in a Viewpoint name?" Cocks Brandon Williams HomeGrown 
Production 
Meteorologist 
Jackie Moser 
Brad Prendergrast 
Heather Dominique Sports Lab Tech Mike Day Dangerous Dave Murphy 
The Observ<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, Nov. 9 Accu Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 9. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
....,.......... ............ -.Ar 

COW WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Prsssure ~ 
H L EB ESl rr!l 0 ~ § ~ t!._!. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Aucclal«< p,..g 
Allanta 64 38 Dallas 75 61 Nashville 64' 43 Baltimore 57 29 Dayton 60 40 Philadelphia 55 32 Boston 50 29 High River 20 13 Princeton 52 35 Calgary 14 10 Las Vegas 66 50 Salem 56 38 Chicago 57 43 Milwaukee 53 46 Yonkers, N.Y. 52 35 
• Wmn.o AT A GLANCE 
Tornadoes cut through Georgia, South Carolina 

ALBANY, Ga. 
Storms and tornadoes that raced across three states crushed mobile homes, injured dozens of people and ripped the roof off a grocery store in a neighborhood still rebuilding from last year's flooding. 
"This is what you call the double whammy -when you get rebuilt and then get hit again," said Major Mike Turner, who headed a police command center in Albany after a tornado struck Tuesday afternoon. The twister injured at least 30 people -two of them seriously -and caused millions of dollars in dam­age. Georgia Gov. Zell Miller declared a state of emergency in Albany. 
Children at Morningside Elementary crouched in halls while the storrr broke their windons and .opple<. .rees; none were injured, Superintendent John Culbreath said today as classes resumed. Students at nearby Radium Springs Middle School also took refuge in hallways as the twister passed by. "I was scared. I thought I was going to die," said 11-year-old Benia Nelson. 
A line of powerful storms· also pounded North Carolina. Wind up to 70 mph slammed into a Brunswick trailer park, crushing at least one home and seriously injuring four family members. Two children were in serious con­dition today in a hospital critical care unit. Information on the condition of a third child who un­
derwent surgery was not released. Their 
father was updated to fair condition and 
their mother and five other people were 
treated and released. 
"All I saw when I got there was just flat­
tened debris everywhere and people com­
ing from all directions holding small chil­
dren," said Dwight Burleson, a Columbus 
County, N.C., emergency medical techni­
cian. 
Tornadoes also raked South Carolina, 
where 22 people in 16 counties were 
injured, including a 15-year-old 
Williamsburg County girl trapped inside a 
truck by a wind-tossed mobile home. She 
was in serious condition with head 
AP injuries. The other people were treated for 
their injuries and released. The tornado destroyed a plywood shed and ripped off the front porch and wall of the nearby Nazareth Pentecostal Holiness Church in Lexington County, about 15 miles southwest of Columbia. 
About 2,900 homes lost electricity and 700 to 800 of them remained without power today, said Janice Allen, assistant city manager. At least 40 businesses and 150 homes were damaged. City Councilman David Williams estimated that the storms caused between $5 million and $10 million in damage .. 
Graham names son as heir to pulpit 
NEW YORK 
Billy Graham, who once said only God can choose his successor. will be succeeded by his oldest son, Franklin. Ending years of speculation over who will take over the nation's most coveted evangelical pulpit, the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association announced Wednesday that Franklin Graham was elected to the new position of first vice 

chairman, with the right of succession should his father become incapacitated. The 77-year-old Graham, who suffers from Parkinson's disease, said he will continue as chairman and chief executive of the organization he founded in 1950. Some leading evangelicals have expressed doubts anyone can replace Graham, no matter who ends up heading his $100 million-a-year enterpris­es. "I think it's impossible. There's only one Billy Graham; when he's gone, he's gone,"said Billy Melvin, former executive director of the National Association of Evangelicals. "God doesn't work in clones." 
Spider silk makes better sutures 
MIAMI 
Spiders, symbols of fright and death, may not be such bad guys after all, says a scientist who has found that one variety spins silk so remarkably strong and germ­resistant that it could someday be used in sutures. The orb-web weaving spider, a common, nonvenomous arachnid, spins maments that are stronger than those of silkworms, whose silk often is used in surgical thread, said Dr. M. Delwar Hussain, an assistant professor of pharmacology at the University of Wyoming. The spider's silk might also someday help hold torn tendons and liga­ments together while they heal, Hussain said Tuesday at meeting in Miami Beach of the Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists. The scientist is studying the molecular structure of the silk in hopes of developing a synthetic form that can be grown in the laboratory. The orb-web spider's silk is nontoxic and does not stimulate an immune response, which raises the possibility of its use in implants, he said. Also, it is highly resistant to bateria and fungus, which can infect and destroy sutures. 

MCI enters music retail industry 
WASHINGTON 
Long-distance company MCI entered the $12 billion music retailing business Wednesday with an 800 number that lets people sample and buy their favorite recordings. MCI needed to make only a minimal investment to pro­vide the service because it uses many of the resources al­ready in place, said MCI marketing director Angela Dun­lap. Callers can choose from among 5,000 COs and cas­settes. To help them decide, they can listen to some 20,000 15-to 20-second music clips. Selections fall into 14 formats, including rock, country, pop, gospel, and children's. MCI said its prices will be in line with those of music stores. Current COs, for example, will sell for be­tween $11.99 and $16.99; older ones, for $7.99. Pur­chases are made by credit card. MCI stressed that its ser­vice offers the convenience of 24-hour availability; plus, users get the added bonus of anonymity. "You don't have to worry about being sneered at by a clerk with a blue mohawk when you go to the counter to buy Neil Dia­mond," said John Donoghue, MCI's vice president of con­sumer marketing. The number is 1-800-music-now. 
FDA OKs nasal strip to cure snoring 
MINNEAPOLIS 
A bandage-like strip that runners, football and hockey players wear on their noses to breathe more easily will now be sold as a snoring cure. The makers of Breathe Right nasal strips have gotten the go-ahead from the Food and Drug Administration to market them to snor­ers. Sleepers who don't get enough air through their nose open their mouths, which promotes snoring. Breathe Right strips work by pulling the nasal passages open. They sell for about $5 for a box of 10, a.bout $12 for a box of 30. Each strip is good for one night. The strip has been sold as a breathing aid since 1993 and is now a common presence on the noses of pro athletes. Among Breathe Rite's celebrity endorsers is San Francisco 49er receiver Jerry Rice. FDA regulations barred the company from selling the strips as a snoring cure until it could prove they work through testing on humans. Tests showed that 75 percent of people snored less often and less loudly when wearing the Breathe Right strip, the company said. 

l 
Thursday, November 9, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 1 
j 
• A CLOSER LOOK AT•••THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
College develops through the years 
By KELLY BROOKS 
News Writer 
With one foot firmly steeped in tradition and the other foot rooted in the forefront of tech­nologieal advancement, the Col­lege of Business Administration has a special place in the Notre Dame community. 
Founded by Cardinal John O'Hara, the eollege remains dedicated to teaching his tenets -ethics and international busi­ness -in a frontier inundated with technology. 
The eollege has four depart­ments: Aecounlaney. finance and business economies, man­agenwnt. and marketing. Founded in 1921, accountancy and linanre were originally one department. Management ranw about in 1928, and mar­kt~lin in I 946. 
"The eollege has developed in rnsponso to student needs, fac­ulty needs, and administrative wishes," staled John Keane, dean of the college. 
The colloge maintains a strong curriculum in interna­tional studies, ethics, and the quiekly rising business com­munications. "We do get sup­port from other areas of the university and its officers, and that's important," emphasized Keane. 
The resources available to the students and faculty have added to the improvements in the college, and the new build­ing has the technology of a real trading system. 
"My lectures are out there on the Internet. [Technology! is definitely an advantage for the student," said Patrick Murphy, 

Studies inside the classrooms 
professor of marketing. method called project discov­
"When the dorms come on­ery. "The idea is that we want line, that will probably give rise to give enough information to to a quantum leap in technolo­the students, but leave them gy for students," declared enough to learn something Barry Keating, professor of through discovery," explained finance. Ramachandran Ramanan, pro­
Accountancy uses a teaching fessor of accountancy. 
Center combines ethics and business 
Curriculum, .teaching 
different down under 
By ETHAN HAYWARD spent last fall in Fremantle, A.~s.~dnt~ Nt:Ws Editor said that compared to the domestic curriculum, the 
Notre Dame's College of Australian one was much Businoss Administration has more hands-on, and students not only expanded to a new spent significantly more time building, but to another conti­learning outside the class­nent as well. For the last three room, with less emphasis on years. the University has been grades and more on actual sending students and profes· experience. sors to its headquarters in "It was definitely a different Fremantle, Australia. experience, b'Ut overall it was 
The Australia program is very helpful/' she said. one of the first study~abroad Senior Lexy Jenkins said she programs geared to accommo-· learned more about interna• date both Business and Arts tiona! business than she·would and Letters majors. The fan have had she spent the fall semester portion is aimed pri­semester in South Bend. marily at the Business cur· ''Notre Dame seems to have riculum, while the spring a Western focus, but in semester concentrates mainly Fremantle I was able to learn on Arts and Letters. a lot more about business in 
Recently, there has been Asia and Australia," Jenkins some debate on whether the said. Australia program's business Accountancy professor courses are on par with Notre Michael Morris sald that Ans· Dame's regular curriculum. tr&lia. uses a mor~ British sys­Students and professors alike tem of instruction, with em· agree that the Australian phasts on a final exam. He teaching methods and subject said he wishes students in the matter differ from those of the program were able to take normal American program. more required courses rather 
Seriior Debbi Shapiro, who than just electives. 

Administration building focus on ethics as well as techniques and disillusioned by the decisions of applications political administrators in the 
By MEGHAN KUNKEL Nt:Ws Writer 
In an age in which the busi­ness world is notorious for greed and self-interest, Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business pursues a goal of strengthening Judea-Christian ethical founda­tions in business and public policy decisions. 
Launched in the 1970s by a student initiative, the center allows students to study how today's moral issues are entwined with their profession­al lives. 
of the College of Business In the 1970s, the students, 
Watergate scandal, petitioned Father Hesburgh for changes at the collegiate level so that the leaders of the future could maintain a stable moral foundation while becoming knowledgeable in their fields. 
Through the concerted efforts of co-directors Father Oliver Williams and John Houck, pro­fessors of management, the center has flourished over the past 20 years into an expansive and respected discipline. 
"Moral standards are those standards which are not only in our tradition but on which all thinking persons commonly agree," Williams said. "They are those standards which are required to promote and pro­teet human life. 
"Business ethics can be defined as the study of how those moral standards apply to the conduct of individuals involved in the organizations by which societies produce and distribute goods and services," he continued. 
The intent of the Center is to promote the advancement of individuals who are both com­petent in their field and bring the Catholic faith into their pro­fessional life. 
"No one should get into a powerful specialty without ex­ploring how it fits into the world of knowledge," Houck said. "You have ethical issues whenever you have a choice." 
Job forecast for business majors: increasingly brighter 
By TONY POTIINGER 
News Writer 
"Dear Applicant: It was a pleasure speaking with you re­cently and exploring your skills. While we cannot offer further encouragement for employment at this time, we wish you the best o~. luck in your job search... 
Hecipients of these rejection gems take heart: Job opportuni­ties for graduating business students are expected to im­prove groatly this year, accord­ing to Dr. Samuel Gaglio, assis­tant dean of the Colleg~ of Businnss Administration. 
Notre Dame's latest perfor­mance in the annual U.S. News and World Heport rankings has brought many new companies to campus to recruit business students, Gaglio said. 
"Companies aro very excited about coming here," says Gaglio. "They see the high ranking of our MBA program so they seek out our under­graduates as well." 
Student perceptions of their job prospects and the role of the Business College and Career and Placement vary. 
Greg Sinnott, a serlior major­ing in finance and computer applications, has not received any offers yet but is upbeat about the process. "Career and Placement have done a lot of extra things you don't see at other universities," said Sin­nott, "such as organizing inter­views for students in New York City over Christmas break." 
Senior Mike Willis, who has received four offers from Big Six accounting firms. is pleased with his accounting degree and his job hunting experiences. 
"Career and Placement does a great job with accounting majors. They make the process simple for us and keep the ma­jor firms coming back every year," he says. 
Senior marketing major Bill Leisen is grateful for the num­ber of interviews he has gotten so far. Leisen admits, "The fact that I probably have a negative GPA and have still been able to get interviews says a Jot. Career and Placement has done a great job and has brought in a wide variety of firms." 
Sinnott jokes, "They've made every effort to introduce me to potential employers. I even get rejection letters from places I didn't apply." 
Like most business students surveyed, finance and computer applications major Rob Leary says he chose business both out of personal interest and a strong desire to have a job after graduation. 
"I think majoring in Arts and Letters is spinning your career wheels," says Leary. "I think my business degree will allow me to get a job." 
Kitty Arnold, director of Ca­reer and Placement, acknowl­edges this factor in business students choosing their major. "One reason students of busi­ness enter the college is to get a job right after graduation rather than going to graduate or professional schools." 
Cavanaugh resident Julie Rogers chose marketing so she could utilize her creative skills and be able to work on her own. "I can't see myself in any­thing else," she says. 
Marketing majors such as Rogers often find that their job searches do not produce the multiple offers enjoyed by their fellow seniors in finance and accounting. 
"Marketing and management majors need to help make their own breaks," asserts Gaglio. 
"They must have a willingness to go where the jobs are. Flexi­bility to move and relocate is key for a marketing graduate." 
Gaglio offers two recom­mendations to undergraduates to facilitate their senior year job search. "The more classes you have in computers, regard­less of your major, the better," he says. "Even if you are not a CAP major, stress the skills you do have in your resume." 
An a summer internship after the junior year or an interna­tional experience provides an invaluable stepping stone to permanent employment. 
John Keane, dean of the Col­lege of Business Administra­tion, concurs. "Our graduates do well across all departments, disciplines, and levels," reports Keane. "If you have an intern­ship, your chances for immedi­ate employment after gradua­tion are a lot better." 
page4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 9, 1995 
Maybe you don't feel like putting on some ~oversized rubber football helmet,
8 ~or painting your school's logo across your chest. But there is something you can do to support your football team -call the Burger King College Football Fans' Poll. The results are posted every week in Sports Illustrated@ and USA TODAY You could even win a trip to the 1995 Nokia Sugar Bowl, plus $10,000 cash. Besides, dialing the phone 
BURGER is rarely as embarrassing as 
Kl NG 
running onto the field naked. -. 
Get your burger's worthT: 
Hesburgh wins peace award 
Special to The Observer 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, pnlsident emeritus of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, has re­ceived the 1995 Distinguished Peace Leader Award from the 
Nuclear AgeP e a c e Foundation. 
Presented annually since 1984, the award recognizes an lndivid~ ual who demon· 

strates dedicated and coura­geous leadership in the cause of peace. Previous winners include Senator Claiborne Pell, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, and the Dalai Lama. 
Father Hesburgh served as president of Notre Dame from 1952-87. His many contribu­tions to worldwide peace in­clude service form 1956-70 as the Vatican City representative on the International Atomic Energy Agency and the orga.ni· zation of a private initiative in the 1980s which united internationally known scien· tists and world religious lea.d­
ers in condemning nuclear weapons. 
He established the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at Notre Dame in 1986, and currently serves as a presidential appointee on the board of the U.S. Institute for Peace. 
Founded in 1982, the Nuclear Age Peace Foundation is a nonprofit, nonpartisan international organization that seeks to provide leadership towa:rd a world .l'ree of nuclear weapons. 
The foundation is an affiliate of the United Nations. 
Hubble telescope may see black hole 
By HARRY ROSENTHAL 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Peering deeply into a spot seen from Earth as a single blur of light, the Hubble Space Telescope has discovered either a black hole in our galaxy or an equal rarity: thousands of stars rushing toward the core of a globular cluster. 
"Like hiles swarming to their hive," is how the Space Tele­scope Science Institute de­scribed the stars' convergence Wednesday. "This runaway col­lapse, long theorized by re­searchers but never seen in such detail, may have lasted a few million years -a flash in the 12 billion-year life of the cluster." 

The area is in an ancient globular cluster known to as­tronomers as M15, about 37,000 light years away, in the constellation Pegasus. In the vacuum of space, light travels 
5.88 trillion miles in one year. 
"It's a dense star cluster, like a mini-galaxy," said Puragra Guhathakurta of the University of California at Santa Cruz. "Stars in globular clusters are almost as old as the universe. If any globular cluster in our galaxy is suspected to have a black hole, M15 is the best can­didate." 
To determine whether a black hole or a collapsing core is causing the phenomena, the Hubble would have to be re~ aimed at the cluster. 
Bender: Genetic progress leads to moral dilemmas 
By KELLY FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
Advanced technology in ge­netics is allowing experts to de­lineate 300-400 different chro­mosomal abnormali­ties, out of the thou­sands of chromosome problems that are detectable, according to Harvey Bender, professor of biology and genetics courses. 
In his lecture yesterday, titled "Ethics and Human Genetics," Bender stated that by the next millennium genetics experts will be able to recognize all of the detectable abnormalities. 
This knowledge gives physi­cians and expecting parents the ability to choose to inter­rupt the pregnancy, or be pre~ pared for the special care that an infant with a genetic disor­der may require, according to Bender. 
"One of the questions in ge­netics is whether or not we 

P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N D R E T I R E .1\\ E N T I N V E S T I N G 

T
oday there seems to be an investment expert or financial advisor almost everywhere you turn. Out just how qualified are all these experts? 
Peace of mind about your future comes from solid planning. From investments and services designed and managed with your needs and retirement security specifically in mind. The kind of investments and services TIAA~CREF has been providing for more than 75 years. 
WE'LL HELP YOU BUILD A REWARDING RETIREMENT. 
Our counselors are trained retirement professionals who have only you and your future in mind. So you're treated as the unique person you are, with special needs and concerns about retirement. And that makes for an understanding, comfortable relationship. 
With TlAA-CREF, you have plenty of choice and flexibility in building your retirement nest egg-from TIAA's guaranteed traditional annuity to the investment opportunities of CREF's seven variable 

Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it!"' 
annuity accounts. And we're nonprofit, so our expense charges are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries.(> That means more ofyour money is where it should be-working for you. 
TIAA-CREF is now the largest private pension system in the world, based on assets under management -managing more than $145 billion jn assets for more than one and a half million people throughout the nation. 
TIAA~CREF: 
THE CHOICE THAT MAKES SENSE. 
It's tough to wade through all the "advice" to find a reliable pension plan provider. But as a member of the education and research community, your best choice is simple: TIAA-CREF. Because when it comes to helping you prepare for retirement, our annuities will add up to more than spare change. 
For more information about how TIAA-CREF can help you prepare for the future, call our Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888. 
should be allowed to 'pollute' 
the gene pool by allowing chil· 
dren who aren't the 'best' to 
survive," Bender said. "But do 
parents have the right to de­
termine the genetic quality of 
their offspring according to any 
criteria acceptable to them 
alone?" 
An associated problem arises 
with peopl~ who, late in life, 
are recognized to have a genet­
ic disorder; some consider it 
their obligation to alert family 
members so that they might be 
tested, according to Bender. 
He added that there is a high 
suicide rate among families 
with Huntington's disease. 
Therefore, he asked whether 
scientists should make tests for 
this disorder available to chil­
dren of those with Huntington's 
disease. 
"If you have cancer, the 
physician will tell you," Bender 
said. "Why should it be differ­
ent with genetic disorders?" 
Also, Bender stated that 
most people believe fetal rights 
take precedence over parental 
rights. However, severely pre­
mature infants, which can now 
be easily saved, sometimes 
have such numerous medical 
problems that they essentially 
become residents of the hospi­
tal, according to Bender. 
"Is it possible that we're so 
technologically advanced that 
we can save infants at such de­
grees of prematurity that we're 
actually making them wards of 
the state?" he asked. 
Societal issues regarding the 
responsibility to handicapped 
people are additional ethical 
dilemmas faced by geneticists 
today. "Society has a financial 
stake in individual reproductive 
behavior," Bender stated. He 
went on to speculate whether 
or not society has the right to 
intervene in parenthood. 
"Natural selection is for hu­
mans to use our brain power to 
help humankind," Bender said. 
"In this respect, we haven't 
really misused our technologi­
cal capabilities." 
Med student may be dead from overdose 
By TOM HAYS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Jennifer Timbrook's smiling face was on the cover of her medical school's recruitment brochure. 
"Most schools use models," said Steve Villano, administra~ tor of the state College of Medicine. "We used a true model student-her." 
That image collided Monday with a far different one: the dy­namic, 32~year-old Timbrook dead in a hospital X-ray dark· room, apparently of a drug overdose. 
Police found needle tracks on her arms and legs, indicating the "model student" from the Midwest was no first-time user. 
The cause of death remained under investigation Wednes­day, but detectives believe the third-year medical student, who worked part-time at gritty Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn, was killed by a pow­erful tranquilizer. 
The drug apparently was fen­tanyl, which has a history of abuse within the medical com­munity. That Timbrook could have been an abuser stunned her family and colleagues. 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 9, 1995 
where they may be "kept as of The Snite Museum of Art, seen as illustrating "the discov­Senate) can speak more in­tradition, yet still subject to art­who is responsible for making ery." telligently."
Senate 
ful scrutiny and criticism." decisions on what artwork can Money should not be the Patrick asked if the Senate 
continued from page 1 
Dame community and family," the letter stated, these people feel that "the continued display of the murals in such a public and highly-visited place as the Main Building has seemed to make many students feel alien­ated and unwelcome." 
These students are concerned that the murals immediately draw one's attention when one walks into the main entrance of the Main Building, which, with its golden dome, "is often seen as most representative of the University," according to the letter. 
"The murals have also caused many students of color to question why their heritage, race, or culture has seemingly been excluded from any art form on campus," the letter continued. 
Students asked that the Uni­versity, which cites "community life and diversity" as two of its "key tasks," respond "with some positive and corrective action(s)." Recommendations for actions taken by the admin­istration were listed as follows: 
• "Remove the murals during the renovation of the Main Building" and have them moved to the Snite Museum, 
• 
Have all campus tour guides note in campus tours that, "although the murals are placed in such a public place, they do not represent the Uni­versity's feelings or attitudes towards Native Americans or African Americans, and that the murals have been kept in tradition due to their historical value. This is a recommenda­tion which remains both plau­sible and immediate." 

• 
Make "expedient efforts to demonstrate and celebrate diversity, ethnicity, race, and culture on campus through art forms," such as "murals, paint­ings, statues, and/or mon­uments." 

• 
"Seek means in which to better the environment for all members of (the University) community, in order to nurture and promote feelings of fellow­ship and respect." 


While members of NASAND and others interested in their cause met last night in The Huddle in LaFortune, their con­tinued efforts, according to Etsitty, will be concentrated on taking NASAND "out of the spotlight" and creating "a movement" that is more of "a group effort." 
Members of NASAND recently met with Dean Porter, director and cannot be placed on cam­pus. 
"From my understanding," Etsitty said, "he was sympa­thetic." 
However, the question still remains about whether or not the Senate will support NASAND with as much force as the student group requests. 
Regardless of whether or not the Senate supports NASAND, the administration may not see some of NASAND's recommen­dations as realistic, according to Student Government Chief of Staff Mark Mitchell. 
"(The murals) are painted onto the plaster," he said. "They'd have to cut them right out of the building. It would be a huge investment to cut them out and transport them to the Snite." 
Mitchell said that, although some people may feel that the murals were simply painted by "an Italian artist to portray his favorite Italian Catholic hero," others recognize the apparent racism in the pictures. 
Adding that "there are just as many people who feel the murals are a part of the history of the Main Building," Mitchell suggested that one alternative is that the title of the murals be changed, so that they are not issue in the forefront, Etsitty responded. 
"Native Americans are part of the Notre Dame family," she said. "If something is hurting us, remove it. Why put mone­tary value on that?" 
Allowing the pictures to re­main in the Main Building, ac­cording to Etsitty, is akin to saying "Notre Dame endorses these pictures." 
Katie Lawler, Student Union Board manager, said that the Senate should concentrate on whether or not it supports NASAND, ra1her than on actual methods to fix the problem. 
"If it were a swastika, it would need to get out of there. There are a lot of people who are working on the administra­tion building who have brilliant minds. Let them figure it out. It's not our job," she said. Stu­dent Body President Jonathan Patrick said that "there's noth­ing wrong with us sending ide­alistic recommendations" to the administration. 
However, Mitchell stated, that "when you're speaking on be­half of the whole student body, it is important to truly see what the views of the student body are." 
More discussion of the issue is necessary, he said, "so (the 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
Make the Church a Little More Holy 
At times, you may feel or think that you no longer fit in the Catholic Church. And, you may think that Campus Ministry is:>for"';-a few people who are just a little too holy for your liking. Maybe you believe in God, but you re not too keen on this thing called the Church. For whatever reason, maybe you have not been to Mass in a while. 
t times, you may think that the Catholic Church is no longer big enough for you. It does not challenge you. It does not console you. It is made up of people who are exactly alike, and not so much like you are now. 
The Catholic Church is not meant to be a closed little circle of people who always agree with each other. The Catholic Church, when it is truly being Catholic, is a Church which is filled with 2eople oF various cultures, ex2eriences, and points ofview, people who are unified to be a communion that is Identifiable in the world. It is a Church which appreciates and celebrates diversity! 
would agree to meet for an in­formal meeting next Wednes­day to discuss a possible resolution supporting some of NASAND's recommendations, one that could be submitted to the administration. 
The officers of the University are scheduled to meet on November 28, where one of the items on the agenda will be NASAND's protest. 
In reference to the Senate's decision to postpone further discussion of this issue and. that of dorm co-residentiality, which will be discussed at the next formal meeting of the Senate, Patrick told the senators, "Please discuss these topics with your constituencies so we can get a feel for what the Stu­dent Body wants." 
• In other Senate business, South Quad Senator Seth Miller announced the South Quad Mass will be held this Sunday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
University President Father Edward Malloy will preside and head football coach Lou Holtz will deliver a post-communion address. 
"It will be a wonderful wor­shipping experience," Miller said, adding that all are wel­come to attend. 
You need not be a poster-child Catholic to be part of this Church. Ifyou're like me, deep down inside you hunger for meaning and you hunger for _Reace. Deep down inside you desire something which only God can satisfy. In many ways, ,God gives what satisfies. 
Perhaps, deep down inside and through other _Reople, God is calling you back to this imperfect Church, not only to satisfy your hunger, out so that you might be part of a communion that satisfies the hunger of others. 
Maybe God means to use you to make the Church a little more holy. 
-Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 
THIRTY-SECOND SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 

-------------------------------------------------------~-------------------------------­
Thursday, November 9, 1995 
The Observer· THE POWELL DECISION page 7 
Powell swings support to GOP, but will not run 
By JOHN KING Associa1ed Press 
WASIIINGTON 
After months of "prayerful eonsideratiun" that captivated the nation, Colin Powell awkwardly nmbraced the Hepubli­can Party on Wednesday but said he would not run for presi­dent in 1996 IHlcause it was "a calling that I do not yet hear." 
Ending an extraordinary po­litical mystflry, Powtlll ruled out stHlking any eleeted office next year. 
Instead, he said he would dedicate himself to restoring "tlw spirit of Lineoln" to a Re­publir.an Party lw said was a lot morn diverse than many con­servatives would care to admit. 
''I'm sorry I disappointed you," the retired general said in a poignant tribute to the thousands of everyday Ameri­cans who had urged him to run in person, through letters and by joining draft Powell efforts. 

"We're devastated," said James Lynch, a New York lawyer involved in the draft ef­fort. Said Tim Bush, an orga­nizer in New Hampshire: "I think really the country is the loser." 
Such support brought him to the brink of a candidacy, Powell said, but in the end he stepped baek from elective politics ­for now anyway. 
To run for president, he said, would demand "a passion and commitment that. despite my every effort, I do not have for political life, because such a life requires a calling that I do not yet hear." 
"Fur me to pretend otherwise would not be honest to myself, it would not be honest to the American people." 
Powell also ruled out being the GOP's vice presidential nominee, but said he might consider an appointed govern­ment position. Many Republi-
GOP race for the White House 

)t Retired General Colin Powell: Ended months of speculation Wednesday. 
~ Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole ~ Rep. Robert Dornan, California ~ Sen. Richard Lugar, Indiana ~ Sen. Arlen Specter, Pennsylvania ~ AlanKeyes ~ Pat Buchanan ~ FormerTanneasee Gov. Lamar 
Alexander ~ Sen. Phil Gramm, Texas ~ Steve Forbes ~ Morry Taylor 
AP 
cans, even Powell critics, said the retired general still was al­most certain to be considered 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Saint Mary's 
Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Patti Carson by Nov. 13; Any questions calll-4540 or 284-5022. Experience is preferred. 
for the No. 2 spot on the GOP ticket. 
Powell's decision left 10 de­clared Republican candidates and one GOP giant still sitting on the fence: House Speaker Newt Gingrich. 
Gingrich said anew he was unlikely to run for president, but that he would talk it over with his wife after Republicans finished work on the budget. 
As he bowed out of the presi­dential race, Powell for the first time pledged political alle­giance -to a Republican Party he said was rightly dedicated to balancing the budget, cutting taxes and shrinking govern­ment. 
"I believe they have ideas and 
<What are !jOU doing this Christmas? 
Consider signing up for Theo 365C 'The Church .1nd Social Action," colloqui.llly known as "Urban Plunge" 
• 
48 hour experience in an inner city of your choice 

• 
During the week of January 3 -11 (d.1tes are chosen by the host site) 

• 
BE WITH, LISTEN and EXPERIENCE the stories of people who live in poverty 

• 
Talk with people who are homeless 

• 
EXPERIENCE soup kitchens, shelters and welfare agencies 

• 
Meet people who ue trying to make life better for people who live in poverty 


REGISTRATION DEADLINE: Nov. 10, 1995 
ORIENTATION: Nov. 19, 1995 4-6PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
FOLLOW-UP MEETING: Jan. 21, 1996 6:30 -10:00 PM 
~ttgistration auailah.lL at t~ Cttnter for Soc.ial Cot\C.¢rns, Campus .jl{inistry and <]{all ~~tps -CU!M'D 
Campus .jltinistry and .Atultic.ultural J\ffairs 119 ,C.¢.;Mans -s.JltC 
Stude.nt J\ffairs Offiu -<]{C C 

• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Dole now top .challenger; Clinton relieved, too 
ByTOMRAUM the challenger," said Hich Associated Press Bond, a Dole strategist. "And two more months have just 
WASHINGTON run off the clock." 
The presid·ential race just Dole's team confidently ex­got a little simpler and -per· pected many fence-sitting Re­haps .:.... a lot less interesting.. publicans who'd boen holding With Colin Powell's retreat, out for Powell to now come Sen. Bob 
their way. The other candi­Dole can dates were hopeful too. reclaim his "Everybody who is running Republican )a.. is happy in the short run," said Steven Wayne, a political
front·runner l·~. ,.,..,. ...· 
label from .· • scientist at Georgetown cold storage. University. "Dole gets the President • nomination, the Hepublicans Clinton can · . presumably unify, Clinton breathe a Dole does well one-on-one with little easier, Dole. All breathe a collective too. -and very private -sigh of 
The retired general's un­relief." equivocal announcement But the race becomes far Wednesday that he will not less fascinating. seale the presidency in 1996 "You're baek to the Clinton­ends the autumn freeze that Dole yawner," said New York had descended on the GOP pollster Lee Miringoff, director field. of Marlst College's Institute for 
And, unless House Speaker Public Opinion. Newt Gingrich seeks a new None of the contenders has opportunity for himself, Dole been able to generate the kind 
·····• clt)arly gains the most with of enthusiasm the popular re· Powell out of the picture. tired general did as be criss­<'vi"Time is the friend of the crossed the country In bL<> 25­
.front-runner and the enemy of city book tour. 
energy at this time that I can align with," he said. 
But he bluntly rebuked prominent conservatives for "ad hominem" attacks on his character. He also said the party would be wise to show more compassion as it reforms welfare and to welcome blacks and other minorities. 
"I believe I can help the party of Lincoln move once again closer to the spirit of Lincoln," he said. 
In another sign of his awk­ward transition from soldier to author to prominent Republi­can, Powell would not promise to back the 1996 GOP nominee, saying he wanted to watch the campaign unfold. Nor did he rule out voting for President Clinton next year. 
In the short term, Powell's decision was seen as a boon to Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, whose position as the GOP front-runner would have been imperiled by a Powell candi­dacy. 
The decision came amid some evidence. that conservatives wary of Powell were rallying to Dole's side. ,......._ 
Hours before Powell's an­nouncement, Dole was en­dorsed by New Hampshire Gov. Steve Merrill, adding strength to an already deep Dole cam­paign team in the first primary state. And a new Time-CNN poll of Republicans showed Dole's support had increased, and Powell's slipped a bit, over the last month as attention focused on Powell. 
"I am pleased that General Powell has found a home in the Republican Party," Dole said. "I will actively seek his advice and counsel as we work to bring our people together, broaden the appeal of our party and move our nation forward." 
____...lll!FAII Students And -Faculty 
Are cordially invited to attend the 
joint ROTC Veteran's 

Day ceremony to 
honor those who 
have served our 
nation. The ceremony 
begins at 4:30P.M. on 
Friday, November 
lOth, and will be held at the flag pole located on South Quad. 
(Inclement Weather Site: Stepan Center) 
,-­
Thursday, November 9, 1995
pageS The Observer • NEWS 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
Hipp denied charges that Re­publican plans would mortgage America's future. 
"Keep the status quo and see what your children's future looks like in ten years," he said. "Democratic programs have failed heinously." 
Williams called the Republi­can trumpets for change a "scare tactic." 
"The deficit is the lowest per­cent of our Gross Domestic Product (GDP) its been since 1948." The Democrats cited low unemployment, and lower deficits as proof of a robust economy under Clinton's lead­ership. 
Lyons suggested that defense spending could be cut to reduce the deficit, rather than trim­ming social programs. 
"The Republicans are trying to sell the Navy a helicopter they have said they don't want or need," he said. 
Lyons also made a religious connection in response to a question about the Democrats support of social programs. 
"Jesus didn't say go out and 
leave your neighbor in the 
streets," he said. 
Hardin attempted to dispel 
Boycott 
continued from page 1 
women -win their jobs back, but as yet, the organization has had little success in negoti­ating with Levi Strauss. 
Nevertheless, Fuerza Onida has remained undaunted. 
"The tags and letters demon­strate the wide ranging scope of Fuerza Onida's boycott and remind Levi's that such injus­tices against Chicana and Latina workers in the name of greater profit margins are not permissible," a Fuerza Onida pamphlet read. 
On campus, promotion of the protest is just getting under­way. · 
"This is one of the issues fac­ing students that we want them to be aware of," said Jose Cervantez, president of LOLAC at Notre Dame. "Collecting the tags is a way of informing people of the boy­cott." 
Cervantez and Danny Rob­
ledo, vice-president of the 
chapter, recognize that the 
likelihood of persuading Levi 
Strauss to reverse its decision 
is small, but they remain 
intent on going through with 
their plans in order to make 
the company consider the con­
dition of its workers before it 
closes another plant. 
"We want to show Levi's that 
some people do stand on prin­
ciple, against a company 
which takes people and their 
community for granted," 
Robledo said. 
duLac 
continued from page 1 
"We felt it was important enough, so we went ahead and printed the supplement," said Shoup. The new document re­places the text of Sexual Ha­rassment and Discriminatory Harassment policies currently found in du Lac. 
The sexual harassment poli­cy change is the latest in a series of alterations affecting the student policy handbook; however, Shoup stated that it's not unusual for such a docu­ment to evolve over time. 
the notion that the GOP is cut­ting spending for the sick, el­derly, disabled and for educa­tion. 
"We're not cutting spending, we're cutting increases in spending," he said. 
The Republicans also plan to remove big government from Washington, by passing more control of Welfare funding to the states in the form of block grants. What prevents the states from using that grant for something other than its ear­marked purpose? "I don't think the governors will do that. They want to be re-elect­ed," said Hipp. 
Each side was asked what el­ements of their platforms they thought they could sacrifice and still produce a satisfactory budget agreement. 
The Democratic representa­tives said Welfare, environmen­tal regulation and Medicare and Medicaid must remain priorities in a good budget. The Republicans said government spending must be trimmed and federal Welfare requirements must go. 
Tuesday night's panel con­
sisted of Keenan co-president 
Ryan Guillen, Keenan residents 
Rob Rolf, and Luke Woods, Ca­
vanaugh Resident Assistant 
Joan Fabrizio and Observer 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas. 
FDA panel: AIDS drug works 

Associated Press 
SILVER SPRING, Md. 
AIDS patients taking the drug d4T got reassurance Wednesday that it could slightly improve their survival time. 
The Food and Drug Adminis­tration conditionally approved d4T in June 1994 because it in­creased advanced patients' immune cells. 
But under federal law, manu­facturer Bristol-Myers Squibb still had to prove that translat­ed into a real benefit -either a longer life or more time until the disease progressed -or the drug could be withdrawn from the market. 
Wednesday, an FDA advisory committee voted 4-3 that d4T works, albeit slightly. 
The vote makes d4T, sold under the brand name Zerit, the frrst conditional AIDS drug to qualify for full FDA approval. 
The FDA is not obliged to fol­
low advisory panel recommen­
dations but usually does. 
Bristol-Myers studied 822 HIV 
patients for 32 months, com­
paring those who took AZT, the 
standard therapy, with those 
who took d4T once the effects 
of their AZT treatment began to 
wane. 
Drug approval route BslonJ hlttlog the mar~cet. drugs are tested by private
Industry reS9SidJers and then approved by the FDA. 
~:? :; ~~1:; ~Je~s1 ~th 
testing by FDA indlviduals condition drug safety tested to tested to sponsor's review detarmine deCermlne resewc:llefe .;~;!;!"'". 
~~~ 
~~~ 1-3 years =J.~ Up to 2 years 
10CJ.l.OOO FDA 
patients to reviews 
determine for 
saCety and approval 
dosage 
~MAAm 
Several years 
7 years Avwage un. 

AVE~~...,. 

--~7= 
The tale of two drugs 
DOC (zalcltablne) Taxol (paclitaxel) AIDS trwatmont Ovarian cancer tnNitmlnl 
:":!;;-::::~~: ::;:::,:;;:~:~:~~::~fm~:l~~rij~JR!t~}!1J~;!l1~i~,~~:it ·~;[:;;::~~::·;' 
Phuea J~~:;o ~~~1~~to 
~~rWI..iJ@j;;iz;~;i5il1~~!992, .. 
FDA opproYIII June 1992• Doc. 1992 
•FDA aocelenited drug nMew policy 
......:FoodondDrug-
Although there was no statis­tically significant difference in mortality, 67 of the d4T patients died during the study, compared with 79 of the AZT patients. 
Overall, d4T reduced by about 15 percent the time it took patients' AIDS to progress, the FDA said. "There is a mod­est benefit," said Dr. Therese Cvetkovich, an FDA medical of­ficer. 
Until now, the drug has been sold for advanced patients after they fail AZT. 
Passing the phases 
APfT. Tao 
But the FDA advisers voted the drug now should be labeled for patients who have taken AZT for a prolonged period, regardless of whether they're failing the therapy. 
That would give patients more flexibility in deciding when to change treatments. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

s 
Sunday,Novemberl2, 1995 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 4:30p.m. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, CSC presider Lou Holtz, Post-communion reflection 
* collection to benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless 

Israel threatens crackdown on sympathizers 
Police arrest more suspects; militant leader allegedly knew plan 
By DAFNA LINZER 
Amlciared P~s 
TEL AVIV, Israel 
The leader of an anti-Arab group and anoth· er suspect were arrested in the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin, police said today, reinforcing suspicions of a right-wing conspiracy to kill the prime minister. 
Israel rndio also reported the arrest of yet another suspect-bringing tho total number detained to five -but the report was not immediately contlrmed. 
Police suspect the militant leader, Avishai Haviv, knew about the plan to kill Habin and told a Tel Aviv court that they belleyed Raviv was "a catalyst in the murder." 
Haviv heads Eyal, an offshoot of the Kach group founded by the slain American rabbi, Meir Kahane. He told the court, without speci­fying, that Habin's confessed killer had made vague threats, but that he "never took him seriously.'' 
The 28-year-old Haviv lives in Kiryat Arba outside Hebron, home to some of the most mlli~ tant Jews on the West Bunk and some of the most virulent anti-Habin sentiment. 
Wearing a blue knitted skullcap, blue T·shitt and jeans, Raviv was brought into the Tel Aviv Magistrate's Court this evening shouting, "This is a political Investigation. This is a dictator­ship." 
He told the court that when Rabin was shot after a pence rally in Tel Aviv on Saturday, he was at a counter-demonstration there and did not know where the confessed gunman, Yigal Amir. was. 
In an interview with the Yediot Ahronot newspaper shortly before his arrest Monday night, Haviv said the confessed gunman was very close to the members of Eyal -which has about two dozen members -but was not an aetlve membAr of the group. 
Suspected of conspiracy ~t-nd failux:e to pr~­vent a crime, he was ordered held for seve·n· days. 
Israel radio said that in addition to Raviv, two other new suspects, Eyal member Benny Aharoni, and West Bank seminary student Dror Adani, thought to be a friend of Amir, were also arrested. 
Police have been investigating whether the confessed gunman, a 25~year·old law student, was part of a right-wing conspiracy. Police said they were also checking whether Amir's broth· er Hagai, 27. was a member of another Kach otfshoot, the Kahane Chai group. 
Yigal Amir was captured at the scene right after Rabin was shot and said he acted alone. His brother was arrested Sunday as a suspect· ed accomplice. 
Two high~ranking security officials. mean· while, lost their jobs today over the security breach that cost the prime minister his life. 
The senior secret service official charged with protecting Israeli leaders resigned today after an internal inquiry blamed serious seC\lri• ty lapses for Rabin's assassination. 
Government sources said the chief of the slain prime minister's bodyguard unit was sus­pended and two lower·ranking Shin Bet agents were transferred to other jobs. 
No one was identified. The findings of the investigation were presented today at an Israeli Cabinet meeting. 
Security sources said the report found there were too few bodyguards surrounding llabin just before he was shot at a Tel Aviv peace rally, and that unauthorized people were al­lowed to get too close. 
The report also suggested that Rabin's body· guards, who work under the Shin Bet, might have been indoctrinated to focus on potential Arab assailants, and thus were inadequately prepared for the possibility of attacks by Jews. 
The Cabinet decided today to set up a com· mission with subpoena powers to look into the security breaches that permitted the gunman to 
, gat;-te,a.r ~ahln, and into., the Shin Bet's in· 'telhgence work on Jewish extremist groups. 
The Salon of Friendship of the University of Notre Dame, in association with the Pan-African Cultural Center and the Multicultural Executive Council, Presents: 
INAUGURAL FORUM ON SOCIAL & GENDER ISSUES: 
The UN & the Challenges of Social Inequality: What Strategy of Social Development for what Type of Social Justice? Reflecting on the Copenhague Declaration and Program of Action of the World Summit for Social Development. 
Speaker Professor Denis GOULET TheW. and D. O'Neill Chair, Professor of Economics Kellogg Institute Faculty Fellow, Kroc Institute for Peace Studies University of Notre Dame 
Discussant: Professor Peter Walshe Government & International Studies Faculty Fellow, Kroc Peace Institute University of Notre Dame 
Up Against Discrimination Of Women? The United Nations And The Issues Of Gender Discrimination: What Happened at the 4th World Conference On Women in Beijing And What To Expect From The Platform of Action Adopted? 
Honor Guest Speaker: 
Mrs. Kaba DJENEBOU Deputy Ambassador Charge d · Affaires 
Perm<ment Mission, Repulic of Cote d'Ivoire United Nations. New York 
Mrs. KABA was the leading diplomat of the powerful delegation of Cote d'lvoire (West Africa) to the World 4th Conference on Women In Beijing In September 1995 and she coordinated the negotiations on behalf of her country. 
Discussants: 
Professor Ava COLLINS  Ms. Diana ZOELLE  
Assistant Dean, CoUege of Arts & Letters  Ph. Candidate in Government. Univ. of Maryland  
Pre-Law Advisor  Visiting Scholar. Kroc Institute  
University of Notre Dame  University of Notre Dame  

Friday, November 10, 1995: 4: 00 -6: 00 PM, Room 100 Hesburgh International Center Exquisite exotic dinner after discussions, Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune. Please make reservation for dinner by November 9, 1995 with Paula Shannon at 4-2824. Women In Diplomacy: Challenges & Opportunities Speaker: 
H. E. Mrs. Djenebou KABA LYONS HALL, Saturday, November II. 1995: 2:00-4:00 Refreshment will be offered. 
Anti-government enclaves empty as settlers escape 
By RON KAMPEAS Associated Press 
HEBHON, West Bank 
Hebron's Jewish enclaves were conspicuously empty on Wednesday as militant settlers went into hiding under threat of a government crackdown on those who sympathize with Yitzhak Rabin's assassin. 
T e Romeida, an anti-gov­ernment stronghold overlooking Hebron's Jewish ceme­tery, Jacked the familiar groups of children at play. Likewise, the Beit Hadassah apartment building in central Hebron was unnaturally quiet. 
More than half of the families weren't home and those who remained would not talk to re­porters. Men who normally walk with guns slung over their shoulders were unarmed. 
"They're loosing the dogs on us," said Tsuriel Popovitsh, a spokesman for the Kiryat Arba settlement adjoining Hebron. 
Shimon Peres, who became prime minister after Habin was gunned down Saturday night by a Jewish extremist, told his Cabinet the government must crack down on militants who incite violence. 
"We must not hesitate to use all means at our disposal against people indulging in in­citement -the instigators and those who pull the trigger," said Peres. Anyone who incites violence should be disarmed, he said. 
A Jewish settler from Kiryat Arba appeared in court Wednesday as a suspect in the assassination, and talk of his arrest reverberated through the settlements. 
The suspect, Avishai Raviv, is the leader of the militant right­wing group Eyal, a breakaway faction of the banned anti-Arab group Kach. 
Israel radio reported two other men were in custody, in addition to the confessed as­sassin, Yigal Amir, and his 

brother Hagai. The brothers 
are not from the settlements, 
but are residents of Herzliya, a 
suburb of Tel Aviv. 
"People feel in a precarious situation," said David Wilder, a spokesman for the 450 Jewish settlers scattered in enclaves throughout Hebron, a city of 120,000 Palestinians. "They fear emergency laws, crack­downs, administrative deten· tions." 
Tel Romeida, a cluster of mo­
bile homes, was a ghost town. 
The mobile home belonging to the family of Kach leader Baruch Marzel, under house arrest since the 1994 Hebron massacre of 29 Palestinians by another Kach follower, was empty. Stickers reading "Hebron, Now and Forever," covered it. 
"He's not at home?" said a paratrooper standing guard at the entrance to the encamp­ment. "He's supposed to be." His fellow guard giggled. 
Marzel has said he sympa­thizes with Habin's assassin. 
"I know what his moods are, I feel it every day that I am an· gry," Marzel said earlier this week. "Anything can happen with people with their back to the wall." 
The residents of the Beit Hadassah apartment building are well-known for their clash­es with stall keepers in the neighboring Arab market. There was no sign of rabble­rousing Wednesday. 
Only Simha Hochbaum, just arrived in Hebron from Man­hattan, was willing to talk to reporters. 
"There's talk of arresting Jews in this area," he said. "When a Jew from Herzliya kills a Jew in Tel Aviv, what does that have to do with a Jew in Hebron? It's a blood libel." 
The settlements around He­bron are strongholds for mili­tant settlers who see any land concessions to the Palestinians as treachery. 
Many settlers in Hebron and Kiryat Arba said they under­stood, if not condoned, the as­sassination, saying Rabin's ap­peasement towards the Pales­tinians encouraged terrorism. 
"Any Jew that brings other Jews to a situation where they are afraid to take buses, afraid to walk on the street, any leader that does that has to be afraid that someone will get upset and kill him," said Noam Federman, a Kach member. 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14 1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 
Irene Dunn, Allan Jones and Paul Robeson star in 
SHOWBOAT 
directed by James Whale $2 Adults, $1 Students 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, November 9, 1995 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucos 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
New. Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mile< Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Da~e/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leiters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
Power to the people: Pride and segregation 
I will take a stance in defense of segre­gation. Don't be mistaken to think that I am the only one, nor fool yourself to believe that all black people feel like I do. Now before people start calling me or sending me e-mail let me drop a little knowledge for you. There is little doubt that the United States is so very much segregated, for the most part people tend to stick with their own kind whether that be African American, Caucasian, Hispanic, or Asian. Of course there are some random instances of truly diverse neighborhoods, but they certainly aren't the norm of this society. People of different ethnic opportunity to be with who they want, and they will usually tend to stick with people who are like them. Now this doesn't necessary just pertain to ethnic peoples, but you will also find that people with similar interests flock to each other. This is natural, and there isn't anything wrong or evil about it. We, as human creatures, tend to stick with what we know, either consciously or not. 
A friend of mine who we'll call Monica (for the sake of her safety) openly and without apprehension declares that she believes in segre­gation. She says "With the history between black people and white 
backgrounds usual­people as it has ly only interact at been for the five
Cristiane Likely
the workplace, hundred years we 
shopping malls and stores, and in col­leges and universi­
ties, even Notre Dame. 
Let's take a look at Notre Dame. Despite the popular opinion, I do not spend my time in a constant state of anger and discontent. Most of the time I'm chilling, mostly relaxed. I tell you right now, I spend most of my free time with black people, talking about black people and black issues, and I don't feel I have to answer or explain why to anyone. I'm black and I'm proud of it and I accept all the things, whether good or bad, that come along with it. "Say it loud! I'm Black and I'm Proud!" Being black is a part of who I am and the essence of my social and political life. I have to think about speaking so-called 'proper English' because that doesn't come naturally to me and it doesn't always sound right. Can ya dig it?!? 
Anyway back to segregation, anyone who can see will see how segregated Notre Dame is. The only time that people of different ethnic backgrounds are together is during class and maybe dur­ing sporting events, but give people the 
see how we're 
ever going to get along. I see nothing wrong with separate but equal if it is truly equal. We're a so called integrated society but anyone can see we are segregated." From talking to a lot of people who lived and grew up during segregation in the early parts of the twentieth century, segregation wasn't necessarily the problem. The problem was with the equal part. It's hard for me to believe that black people who, from my understanding, were pretty content being around other black people, would want to assimilate into the dominating culture. Which leads to the common misconcep­tion about integration and segregation. It was not that the black people wanted to be like or to assimilate with the dominate culture, it was that black people wanted equal opportunities and equal resources, that's all. But somehow, in some kind of way it got into a lot of people's heads that black people wanted to be like white peo­ple; yeah right, just as much as white people want to be like black people. That's just not true; ain't nothing wrong have been living together in America, I can't with that either. 
•  DOONESBURY  
MR, 5P&AI</3R, 7H&Re HA5 Elli&N A REMARJ<ABL&. CON5EN5U5 BUil-T UP OV&R.. TH& LAST20 Yt;4R~ ON TH& 51../BJUT OF TH& EWVI­RONM&NT. YOU IGNORE !TAT YOUR PERIL/  YaJANI? YOUR.ACOt-YT&S ARC a&AI?t-Y9R£AK/NG FAITH 11//TH 7H& AM&RJ­CAN PC:OPL&... ~  
... A5 ARE 77-1& MAJOR. aJ/?PORA?C POUUT!3R5 


I've said this a thousand times as have almost all the black students I have talked to; I like being black but I don't have to worry about being black when I'm around other black people. I'm never the token black person or the token this or that, I'm just me and it's beautiful, and I can just imagine a society like that. I tell you right now, I'm automatically defensive if I'm the only chocolate chip in the cookie. I don't have any real prob­lems with segregation, not at all. I'm sorry but integration failed and it failed miserably, and it has nothing to do with ''I'm good and you're bad". I don't want to integrate into the dominate European culture and I shouldn't have to be com­fortable, to lead a good and decent life, but integration says I have to. Don't bet on it, I say. 
With integration we lost a lot of self­respect. We got taught that everything white was good for you; everything black was bad for you. Black kids were forced to go to school in hostile environments, and no one can tell me that did any good. Anytime you force people together, regardless if they want to be together or not, it is bound to backfire on you. Boom!!! With integration, black people get bitter, and I truly hate that because for all that black people have been through, the last thing we need to be is bitter. Then black people get angry, and white people get scared, or at the least the government. The Black Panther Party's saga gives evidence to that. wish I was alive during the 1960s when the Black Panther's were strong and in your face, man. The Panther's had it right, Power to the People! I won't lie and say whether the Panther's were sepa­ratist or not, but they realized where they were and they realized where they need­ed to be. I can dig that. 
Cristiane Likely is a senior living in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can reached over e-mail clikely@artin. helios. nd. edu 
YOU .AI?& OIAMP!ONING a//TH 77-1&5£3 IJR&APFU1­RIP&R'3! 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
[)()7H6Y 
H&CI<.,
Ff3CL.NO NOt 
5HAMe, 
&/7H/3/(? 
r I 
"We conclude that in the 
field of public educa­tion the doctrine of 'separate but equal' has no place." 
-Earl Warren 



VIEWPOINT
Thursday, November 9, 1995 
page 11 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Natural law over multiculturalism: God bless Columbus 
When Francisco Pizarro walks up to the lncan king in presence of the full court and shoots him point blank with a crossbow, we condemn this as a savage and bestial aet. All who believe in such a thing as virtue and absolute right and wrong recognize such a performance as lacking any honor whatsoever. This having been said, it is necessary to now evaluate the overall endeavor of the Europeans in conquering the New World: that is we must render judgment on the man responsible for beginning a process which has ultimately established the very institutions we now live under. And when all is said and done we should honor Columbus. Here's why: 
The preexisting culture of the Indians, prior to their conversion to Christianity and marginal integration in to Western Civilization, is best characterized by Thomas Jefferson in the Declaration of Independence: merciless and savage. Any examination of the basic facts by a rational mind will serve as vindication for our claim. 
The known rule of the Indians was in fact warfare. The European explorers did not stumble upon a contingent of noble savages subsisting in various utopian regimes. The first group of Indians Columbus came upon, the 
And what of the mighty Aztecs? doubt admire this aspect of Indian life, merit a red flag, where are the calls of Tainos, readily welcomed him because Indeed they had amassed an impressive for it did force many Tano women to genocide?) after the latter's conversion 
they were literally being eaten up by the empire, exhibiting both in architecture become working girls. As an aside to all to Christianity; that is, after the Hurons 
neighboring Caribs. This latter group of and science astounding degrees of this we note that Columbus freed many no longer practice torture, rape and savages were hated by all neighboring advancement. But the Aztecs had been of these concubines, who left eagerly, warfare as a people they are killed off. 
tribes because of their fierce and 
hated by surrounding peoples. To be while returning from his second voyage. So much for tolerance in an America not extremely vicious natures. Constantly under the Aztec yoke meant payment of In light of all this evidence, who is informed by Western ideals. were they waging war in order to pro­a particularly harsh tribute: human lamenting the demise of this culture, Most importantly we at Notre Dame cure prisoners needed for cannibalistic lives. The belief was of a universe born this utter lack of civilization? Obviously should be grateful to Columbus, and rites. Nor were the North American in blood -the blood of gods. In order NASA-NO is. Why? It is NASA-NO most of tribes any less barbaric. Those with to sustain the world the blood of man perfectly obvious, it is all, for bringingmuddled vision, those who seem to was required: thus the Aztecs sacri­common sense, it is self­Christianity to the believe in the "Danees with Wolves" pre­ficed, sometimes on a scale of 20,000 at evident that a man 'What to say then of New World, a belief sentation of Indian life, as if the Indian a time, their "tribute," men whose dressed in an animal skin, our old friends which opens the pos­
was primitive Quaker, would do well to hearts were torn still beating from their various parts of his body sibility of salvation rneall that it is thn Iroquois who exter­bodies. The scene is rather vivid, espe­piereed and painted eat­the Caribs? The Caribs in a greater world. minate the Hurons. cially when we are told the Aztec priests ing human flesh and waT­systematically raided and And this was not were forbidden to cut their nails or hair, ring with a spear or other always the easiest
raped the surrounding
and could not wash the filth of the sacri­crude instrument; it is task. Consider the fice from their clothes. Was human sac­perfectly obvious that he tribes in order to procure case of Freneh Jesuit rifice rare among the primitives inhabit­is a savage! It is not Jean de Brebeu~ a
concubines. The femi­
ing the Americas? No, it existed among polite to paint this picture missionary to the the Incas, Caribs, Pawnee, Natchez, and today, yet such was the nists no doubt admire Huron who learned Iroquois to name a few. reality in many places on this aspect of Indian life, Indian tongues and What of racism and prejudice, could this continent 500 years cared for the sick.
for it did force many 
these have been embedded within ago. As Robert Hoyal Indian culture? Of course; they were Is there no such thing Tano women to become reports: "Yet when men like anyone else. Let us return for as natural law? Can man he was captured by
working girls.' 
a moment to the Tainos. These people do such violence to the the Huron's Iroquois had three castes based upon a religious natural law and still be enemies, he was myth. Man had sprung from two caves civilized, let alone praise-shown no mercy. on the mountain Cauta. From one cave worthy, as the multicul-Boiling water was a natural elite, the Tainos; from the turalists seem to think? Does NASA-NO poured over his head in a parody of bap­other came the rest .of the world, and in believe a natural law exists? Because tism. Then red-hot hatchets were strung particular the Naborias, a miserable Catholics do believe in such a thing; nat­around his neck and a pitch and ·resin class whose social condition approached ural law is a fundamental doctrine of belt on his waist. His lips were cut off slavery. Again, the Tainos are not the Church, and a tradition which Notre and other pieces of his .body were cut unique among Indians. Anyone familiar Dame must be consistent with. But per­off, roasted, and eaten in front of him. with Aztec culture will quickly recall haps NASA-NO does believe in natural Finally, his heart was dug out and eaten, that tribe's belief in their own superiori­law, for they seem to make an appeal to while his blood was drunk." ty. Is this not racism? Is this not preju­some absolute standard of justice; they This last most graphic detail of Indian dice? Where are all the just do not believe this life is so horrendous we must condemn outcries? Where are law to regulate matters those decrying the passing of such a cul­the denunciations? But such as cannibalism, ture as absolute fools. 
'The preexisting cul­
to expect this is to pre­torture, rape, and sav­Thomas Aquinas commenting on nat­
ture of the Indians,
suppose the champions age warfare. ural law cites Isidore as saying it is com­of such causes as multi­prior to their conver­NASA-NO seems to mon to all nations (Q94, art 4). In fact, culturalism are intelli­wl'nt a redress of griev­the fo-"most philosopher/theologian of
sion to Christi, .ity aiui 
gent enough to recog­ances for all the brutali­the C: tholic Church states in a few nize the need for con­marginal integration in ties inflicted on the places that God's Law is written the sistency. Indians. This is a valid same way onto the heart of all mankind.
to Western Civilization, 
And the Indian point, for many atroci­This includes Indians; we cannot, in the woman, what of her is best characterized by ties were committed, name of relativism, excuse their vicious­status? In an age although genocide, the ness. More importantly, we cannot as a
Thomas Jefferson in the 
which demands com­deliberate extermina­Catholic institution sacrifice natural law
Declaration of 
plete equality between tion of a whole nation of upon the filthy altar of Multiculturalism. men and women, an Independence: merci­people, is not one of It is Columbus, and the followers of age which will not tol­them; the most destruc­Columbus who, for all their misdeeds
less and savage.'
erate any distinction tive agent for the Indian along the way, set up the institutions among the sexes, an was disease, a morally which both bring the Indians back to the age which demon-neut.ral factor. We who natural law and introduce them to the strates a paranoia con-defend Columbus do not way of salvation. Perhaps it is these two cerning the specter we label "Sexism" condone any crimes perpetrated by things -natural law and salvation what is it to make of a society which types such as Pizarro. Still all must through the Christian God -which cuts the ears and noses off adulterous admit the same nations to inflict crimes NASA-NO reject. But then they should women, as the Apaches' did? But per­against humanity, and these certainly no not be petitioning an institution which haps the multiculturalists are silent here greater, in fact often much less offensive holds these dear. It is NASA-NO who because they believe adultery to be a than those perpetrated by men already should sit down and end the disgrace. vice of the most offensive type. What to in America, are the nations which ulti­God bless Columbus and his murals! say then of our old friends the Caribs? mately civilize a barbaric people. The The Caribs systematically raided and Indian alone could not have done so. FRED KELLY raped the surrounding tribes in order to History has it that the Iroquois extermi­Sophomore procure concubines. The feminists no nate the Hurons (strange, this should· St. Edward's Hall 



:ACCE-NT
page 12 Thursday, November 9, 1995 
• ALBUM REVIEW 
DOVETAIL JOINT CONNECTS 


Emily Lord 
Beginnings 
T
he Bats are a ··.·. from New Zent~~u~~.,,,~~nullug Zealand drlftiness three b(Ulds on a NeW..'I;..e~.~.l:~dt~i'\In~~:icat!)llri1;vvq )!eatS:!:i:l ago) they still manage to selvesJn the somber tone of .,u... u ..., La The Wedding PF1~~,,.,lt and melod:ic,C'ouc!hmast1F!r to be played tog1~thE~t~ ··ou·tstde~ Under the drifting kevboa~ the drums punctuate OC(:aSiiona;}l)l; ..t:t~a:tmg (l;t musical blanket intE1ndE1d love lost. The Bats corttinutHwi1th nite indie·pop mellowness thr·on~th1:mt This hand is spectacular Uv~. I. dlon''tkno11V·· plans, but surely check them Chicago. And bring a·'··'·~"'~'"'·' ·"'··"'"'!il~I.U>'' ···"'"" ·'·"/"' lOV·llY•litPVl 
hand through and through; 
ness, hilt ~lways retaini:qg songs. Another recording to at WFMV, ifyou a.re looking for tasty,. Tune in to WVF.l 640 AM Thursday$· The Bats and other Obseroer picks on,.:Thf!
Slww;ll rwt I1k .·.. ::;:<· · · 
David McMahon. Music Direcror, WVFI 
• CAMPUS Musm 
BEGINNINGS 
I
f these be beginnings, Emily Lord is on the road to great things. Her clamored-for CD, Beginnings, will be released at the end of the month. After seeing the NO senior at various watering holes around South Bend, and hearing her on campus COs, fans of her acoustic music will be able to pick up a col­lection of all her own songs, and it's worth the asking price. 
Beginnings is a good introduction to Lord's art. you've seen her at Club 23, Bridget's, or at Acoustic Cafe, there are no surprises here. Lord is the featured musician on all the tracks; the spaces therein are capably filled by Kevin Fleming (percussion). Chuck Beck (keyboards), and Jim McKiernan (sax, flute), giving the listener a spare, intimate atmosphere. 
The disc starts off with "Angelina," a song with tragic origins that is still uplifting, with nice sax accompaniment by McKiernan. Straight away you hear the strengths that have enabled Lord to gain a following: the first is solid guitar work and the sec­ond is a voice of clarity and precision unmatched by any other campus singer. 
Lord approaches her strongest instrument with a keen sense of detail. Where many singer/songwriters concentrate more on the song and their lyrical genius, Lord places the emphasis where everyone's paying attention; the pipes. You get the feeling that if she sang "Three Blind Mice," it would have been worth putting on the CD. 
On Beginnings, Lord's attention to vocal detail results in that rarest of campus phenomena, the vocal hook. Voice is the end here, not the means. In addition to a strong melodic instinct, Lord's range creates an intricate texture for her album. Her voice soars sweetly over the emotionally naked "Hey Joe," 
while the lower range is 
rich and provides the sultry 
atmosphere for "Shores of 
Allicante." 
While Lord's lyrics are 
not as strong as her vocals, 
they are brutally honest. 
Anyone who has ever been 
in a long-distance relation­
ship will attest to the accu­
racy of "Through the 
Tears," especially the lines 
"Yes I know the distance 
makes the heart grow 
fonder/ they tell me time 
will always mend! and I can 
cliche the days away but 
that don't mean a thing/ 
part of healing needs to 

wallow in the pain." 
"Raining in New 
England," a travel song 
quite reminiscent of "Going 
To California," flows while 
avoiding the latter's acid­
soaked meandering. Lord, as usual, gets right to the point: "You know the air­ports and the night life lost their novelty I where are the lights I thought would shine for me?" "Jackie Lee" addresses the late first lady, woman to woman: "Was he good to you? Did he treat you mean?/ Were you just another milestone in his daddy's dream?" 
If there's one flaw to the album, it's that the lyrics don't match the strength of Lord's guitar or melody. That is undeniably a tough task, however, and Lord's musical future is wide open. The comparisons to the Indigo Girls are inevitable, but the Indigo Girls' lyrics are not as direct as Lord's. 
Campus music fans have been waiting for Beginnings for a long time. In the liner notes, Lord says, "I've always felt my music needed time to mature before making this kind of commitment." Any musician needs time to mature. There will be time for that, and with any luck, Beginnings is only the beginning. If Lord had only included her cover of "Jack and Diane," it would be perfect. 
-by Kevin Dolan 
By CHRISTIAN STEIN Music Editor 

newcomers to the Chicago music 
cene, Dovetail Joint has made a 
ig splash with their self-titled debut CD. The new disc has grabbed the immediate interest of Atlantic and Capitol Records as well as many other large record labels. 
The core of Dovetail Joint is made up of lifelong friends Chuck Gladfelter on vocals and guitar and Joe Dapier on drums. The recent addition of renowned Chicago bassist Solomon Snyder and Robert Byrne on guitars and backing vocals, solidified the already impressive core of Gladfelter and Dapier. 
There is little doubt that the straight ahead rock of Dovetail Joint will gain popularity nationwide, especially when they sign to Atlantic or Capitol Records, who will mass market the powerful lyrics and solid music found on their debut. 
Besides enjoying the excitement of being noticed by major labels, Dovetail Joint has been savoring the success that they have found in the Chicagoland area, selling out almost every show at larger clubs like The Doubledoor on a regular basis and receiving radioplay of their single "Circular Motion." 
Outside of Chicago, the band has been catering to the more progressive and innovative college crowd; their 7'' single is currently on the play lists of 300 col­lege radio stations and slowly gaining popularity throughout the nation. 
The current problem for this awe­some band lies in their lack of touring. Hopefully this will be cured when their label finalizes a deal with either Concrete Management or Gallin-Morey Management, who deal with clients such as Michael Jackson and Dolly Parton. Once this deal is complete, Dovetail Joint will begin a nationwide tour and will more than likely end up in South Bend before this semester is complete. If the band has not played here by then, their manager assures that they will play in South Bend before the school year ends. 
Despite the fact that the album is incredible and innovative in its own right, there is no better way to experi­ence Dovetail Joint than a live show. Even the uneducated will be blown away by their stylistic music as their October album release party performance indi­cated. In the October 14 performance at Doubledoor Night Club, Dovetail Joint played the majority of their album to an enthusiastic, dancing crowd. 
Included in the set was the hit single "Circular Motion" which begins with muted vocals and breaks into heavy Stevie Ray Vaughn-like riffs as the song builds in intensity. The chorus intro­duces strong power chords and intense drumming which underlie Gladfelter's solid lyrics: "Times when I may have been mistaken I hang me out to wait and see I cycles of circular motion I have proved to have it in for me." 
Although "Circular Motion" is their current crowd favorite, the band is pre­dicting that increased radio play of their entire CD will give rise to a new hit, "Oh My God." This song is excellent through­out, with its softly strummed intro breaking into a funky rhythm as the song progresses. At its climax, Gladfelter and Byrne harmonize the chorus, "If 'Oh my God' is what you need/ it works for me I but I don't believe in any creed I that's been forced on me I when each of us acts so inclined! we make it true and perpetuate I the 'Oh my God' and all that" as their guitars blast out distorted energy. 
The most notable item on this album is Dovetail Joint's ability to write incred­ible bridges, replacing traditional guitar solos which can become tiresome after a while. This ability is predominant on the ninth song of the eleven song debut, "Sick With Something." 
The entire song rocks with passion as each band member comes to the fore­front displaying their musical talent. Solomon Snyder plays a funky bass line which is accompanied by rolling drums. Gladfelter and Byrne continue with their one-two punch of guitars finally arriving at one of the most breathtaking bridges heard in a long time as the music halts and both guitars kick in, exchanging riffs and then breaking back into song. 
This album is solid through its entire­ty as well as a worthwhile investment. Dovetail Joint's debut is currently avail­able in all Chicagoland Tower Records stores as well as Best Buy stores and will be at the Notre Dame Bookstore within the next few months. Another al­ternative for purchasing the album in the South Bend area is to go to Tracks or Orbit and ask them to order it...it's worth it. 

Thursday, November 9, 1995 
:ACCENT 
Sun on the horizon 
Now, half a year later.'--------------------__j pummels his set to Enigk's 
n their debut album, Diary, Sunny Day Heal Estate grabbed  on "8" and "Rodeo Jones." The band has also short­ened their songs by an  
the ears of critics, musi­ average of a minute. This  
cians, and fans, and vault- only helps to increase the  
ed to the position of num­ impact of the songs and  
her-one selling band for  leaves the listener begging  
Sub-Pop Records. Diary, as  for just a little more.  
the title suggests, offered a  "  Band members William  
range of emotions, from  Goldsmith and Nate  
loss to regret to heart- Mendel strengthen their  
break, as lead songwriter  case as one of the best  
Jeremy Enigk penned  rhythm sections around  
painful, soul-searching  and prove their talents are  
lyrics. Enigk finally found  being wasted in the Foo  
comfort in religion and  Fighters.Goldsmith's  
became a devout Christian.  drums, like the guitar and  
However, the rest of the  vocals of Enigk, are able to  
band had mixed opinions  '  convey emotion while  
on taking the band in that  \  keeping quick, tight, and  
direction, so in March of  f  original rhythms. The cym­ 
1995, Sunny Day Real  hal tapping on "8" carries  
Estate called it quits.  the verse, before Goldsmith  

thn self-titled, posthumous Sunny Day Real Estate cries of "sweet lover!" in album has been delivered. 5 D R 1r t t the chorus. The beats and Unlike the black, depress-unny ay ea ,;;,S a e bass line on "Iscarabaid" ing Diary, Sunny Day Real Sub-Pop Records recall the structures of Estate is packaged in solid ++++~ bands like Slint and Girls pink and white, hinting at ~ ~ ~ ~ J; Against Boys, and on Enigk's newfound opti-out of five "Theo B" Goldsmith glues misrn. The songs within the song with numerous also testify to the new emotions of the band. Both lyri-fills over Mendel's inventive and complementary bass. cally and musically the songs on Sunny Day Real "Theo B" and "J'nuh" get the vote for best songs on Estate cover a wider range than on the sometimes the album. Sunny Day mixes elements of some of the similar Diary. best bands in college music on these tunes. The sim­
Enigk's vocals continue to convey emotion better pie high-notes and pickings recall Seam's Are You than any singer in rock. Through slurring notes and Driving Me Crazy? and the repetition of chords and various crescendos and decrescendos, Enigk's singing quickened tempos bring to mind Fugazi's Red mimics the poetry of the written lyrics. For example, Medicine. No band can go wrong bringing to mind on the final track, "Rodeo Jones," he screams, "Your these masterpieces. Yet, these songs are most eiTec­rnisery! My misery! Wait for me .... " However, his tive because they mix every element of Sunny Day cries are not like the grungy-alterna-rnetal screams of Real Estate equally. so many other bands. Enigk has the rare ability to The growth and impact of Sunny Day Real Estate ereate passionate, harmonic cries that strike the emo-over just two albums boggles the mind. The band has tions of the listener like a plea for help. On "Friday," grown in all areas, beating out all but a few other his voice is layered with Dan Hoerner's backing bands. Yet, Enigk is the age of a college sophomore. voeals to ereate chant-like effects reminiscent of Enigk's lyrics on both albums also hold personal Middle-Eastern influences. On "lscarabaid" Enigk meaning to anyone who has suffered through loss, whispers and screams simultaneously in muffled then found hope. It's sad to see Sunny Day Real tones, proving his growth as a singer and songwriter. Estate go, but fans can look forward to Goldsmith and 
Sunny Day Real Estate's nine songs break the mold Mendel's added contributions to the Foo Fighters and set on Diary, where the band would begin quietly, Jeremy Enigk's solo album in the spring. In the mean­then climax minutes later in powerfully loud melody. time, snatch up copies of Sunny Day Real Estate. Traces of this style are left, however, most noticeably -by Brent DiCrescenzo 
Digging up dirt 
T
he north central ·.. r:>lscsnr fore which rockers. Midwest. horne of The guitar work is solid,
s 
John Cougar, Freddy but doesn't ever get "out Jones Band, and other • there" enough to be inspir­honest folk-roekers of their JOE OJRT CAR ing. This is counteracted 
ilk, has proven to be a by the wonderfully sung breeding ground for stylis-t~·rc I harmonies, which are 
tically different bands that •• accented with a nasal
BODEANS•
somehow seem to exeel at •· Midwestern tone. whatever form of expres-Disc One otTers plenty to sion they ehoose. Yet, these ·· celebrate in terms of party bands never manage to singalongs, but Disc Two is stray too far from the roots where one can finally see
l:lliJII laid down on their first few IU BoDeans opening up a bit, albums. as they dive into their BoDeans (fronted by Kurt country-rock and blues Neumann and Sam Llanas) CEnTS .PEl\ G.~lLOft roots, producing a sound hail from Wiseonsin, and I ., "'if;~(····'• I ~ which is less uniform, but continue to uphold this il 'J appetizing nonetheless. trend with their first live "Ooh (She's My Baby)" release. the double-disc set SRUDO ROD SAl£ IODICRTIOOS muST B£ RT l£RD provides the perfect com-
Joe Dirt Car. Ul l D S bination of these two 
Compiled from over five H1:0 fUVfRY I BfGUO-UODfR·PfnftlN Of LRW styles, reeling with a loose years of livn concert tapes,.....__-----------""'--------------" blues feel that is gently Joe Dirt Car presents a pic-BoDeans dispersed over the next ture of a band in a strange Joe Dirt Car four songs on the disc, the form of evolution-these first of which, "Far Far guys have obviously mas-Slash/Reprise Records Away From My Heart," tered the craft of putting on +++ could have come from the a good show and making ~ ~ ~ Hank Williams songbook. the studio hits translate OUt of five In this half of the collec-W!~II to the live setting, but tion, the songs are less it appears something is lacking. That something familiar but more intimate, reminding the listener seems to be variety in the musical phrases, but it's that catchy choruses and titillating guitar hooks not as had as one would think-one just has to get to aren't everything. the end of the second disc to realize the full range of BoDeans should definitely gain recognition as some-the BoDeans. thing more than a semi-acoustic pop band with this 
As can be inferred, Disc One of Joe Dirt Car is a release, as the second disc provides a glimpse of the seemingly endless collection of nearly sound-alike, band as road-weary jovial warriors. With a little less eatchy folk-pop hits. Yes, they are great songs, and repetition of tired licks that satisfy the old pop formu­they do indeed sound like inspired performances lae and a continuation of their musical evolution, (especially "Still the Night" and "Good Things"), but BoDeans could develop into a band with a healthy it's awfully hard to tell one mid-tempo song from future in the mainstream acceptance department. another, without memorizing which ballads come be--by Dominic DeVito page 13 
3. 
Poe-Hello 

4. 
Garbage-Garbage 


S. Four Rooms Soundtrack 
6. 
Spooky Reuben-Modes of Transportation vol.l 

7. 
Gang ·.of Four-ShriJ)kwr. apped ,, 

8. 
Erasure-Erasure ' . 


~ 4 
9. A{festimonial Dinnerijhe Songs of · 
XTC 
10.RI£M-Songs that are Live 
11. ID.t() Another-Seemless 
12.Toad tbe Wet 
13. Lir-N~~~ 
•· Pound-Dogg Food pkins-Mellon 
Collie & Infinite Sadness ~. Cypress Hill-Temple of Boom 
4. 
Alanis Morissette-Jagged Little Pill 

5. 
Natalie Merchant-Tigerlily 

6. 
Presidents of the United States-Presidents of the U:pited States 

7. 
Ozzy Osbourne-Ozznw_sis 

8. 
O,o Goo Dolls-Boy N\fed Goo 


-
9. Bu~b,.~ixteen Stone · . lO.De~p,Blue Something-Home ll.Toad the Wet Sprocket-In Light 
Syrup.,. A,;.:,. , ,. · 12.Red H'Cit,(;hili Pe~~llot. 
Minute ·.·. ·£ ·.:y; ·; > . > 13.Dwight Yokam-<Jn~.:;::ii,';' · 14.Candlebox~.t;.,uci ·· ;'' :· 15.Kenny Shephe . .,.~be,tter 
Vi It::~ .· 
all·On 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 1995 
•Nfl 

Wanted!!  THE STUDENT UNION BOARD IS  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Student Art Work is still being  
NOTICES  Individuals, Student Organizations to Promote  ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  accepted for the Annual Student Art Show. Entries must be  mcgrath ... now i really know how cheap you are ... that's the last time I  
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  COMMISSIONER, QUES­ TO CAMPUS.  submitted to Student Activities,  believe you when you say, ,"""" It's  
Mark's Towing  FREE TRIPS  TIONS???CALL 1-7757, OR STOP  CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  315 LaFortune by  on me ... nannery  
Roadside Service, Tire Changing,  CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ BY 201 LAFORTUNE FOR AN  PM  FRIDAY, NOV. 10.  
Jumpstarts,Many Services ..  GRAMS  APPLICATION  & ASK FOR SANDY.  Any questions, all 631-7308.  
We Accept Checks & Charge  http://www.icpt.com  FALL FESTIVAL 1995 is this  
Student & Senior Discounts  1-800-327-6013  Student adept at Claris Works to  Saturday, November 11. Come  
• Damage Free Towing • 24 Hours • Motor Club Servicer Ph#(219)271-2382  ILOST & FOUND I  tutor a new MAC owner/alum. Good pay. 277-2560.  Need 1 roommate now &1 more next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­2366  ATTENTION GAY,LESBIAN,BISEXUAL, or CURIOUS Students/Faculty/Staff of  join us and work with the residents of the Northeast Neighborhood. BARBECUE  
Twin girls need a ride to NJ/NY  ND/SMC/HCC. Student run support  WILL FOLLOW. Vans begin  
For more information and assis­ FOUND: port. CD player  for thnksgving-we want to see our  6 BDRM HOME NEAR ND. NEXT  group meeting. THURSDAY, Nov  leaving Main Circle at 9:00 a.m.  
tance regarding the investigation of  Call Peter @ 4-3671  new niece-help pay for gas-call  FALL.272-6306  9th at 7:30pm. Call287-6665 for  and will return starting at 12:00  
financing, business opportunities  Please Describe  Amanda x4086 or Lacy x1263  location.  p.m.  
and work-at-home opportunities,  SUBLEASE Turtle Creek single  
The Observer urges its readers to  HELP!!!I I need a ride to Saint  call Dan 2732769  ADOPTION  
contact the Better Business Bureau  LOST  Louis  Amy -My pumpkin is in perfect  A wonderful home awaits your  
of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ Black Pagemart Motorola Pager. Has been reported lost to the com­ for Thanksgiving break. Please call Caroline 284-4349  TICKETS  health, despite the amputation of his ear. Thanks for asking!  baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love.  
4200; or call the BBB at 219/277­ pany and is now inactive. If found  Expenses paid. Call Margaret or  
9121 or 800/439-5313.  please call Nikole at 4-1265  AIR FORCE 4SALE 233-1259  Farley Girls: Tough enough? Just  Peter at 800-529-8386.  
need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­ Justin  make sure you're there. You've  
111111111111111111111111111/1111/11/ll  'LOST'  4569monique  chickened out enough this semes­ 
FIND OUT..... Nov. 16 7:00pm  Black Pagemart Motorola Pager. Has been reported lost to the com­ Desperate student needs car  PERSONAL  ter!  Hokey religions and ancient  
Lafortune Ballroom  pany and is now inactive.  $100 for use of vehicle from  weapons are no match for a good  
11111111111111111/llllllllllllllll/111  Its return would be appreciated.  Fri 11/17-Sun 11/19  SKINNY,  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ blaster at your side, kid.  
If found please call Nikole at  call Dave 3313  EABFD  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ You don't believe in the Force, do  
- Spring Break Bahamas Party  4-1265. Thankyou.  Stooch  born. Will provide love, nurturing  you?  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  TUTOR FOR HIGH SCHOOL  environ., educ., financial security.  Kid, I've flown from one side of this  
$27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6  Lost-Unique 1967 HS Class Ring  SPANISH. CALL HANHPHAM 277­ 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Hollywood Hills home has large  galaxy to the other. I've seen a lot  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  All Gold-No stones-Julie-4-2706  5474. ALSO, TUTOR FOR  LaFortune Student Center  back yard and loving dog. Call  of strange stuff, but I've never seen  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15!  SCHEME COMPUTER PROGRAM  We're open for your convenience!! I  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  anything to make me believe  
Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ ........ LOST ****  (MAC) .  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Confidential.  there's one all-powerful force con­ 
6386  SMALL GOLD HOOP  Fri.: 7;30am -7:00pm  trolling everything. There's no mys­ 
EARRING  1 Time Cash Offer  Sat.: Noon-6:00pm  tical energy field that controls my  
Spring Break! Panama City! Early  "'.L 3709  Transfer computer files from Ma, J  Sun.: Noon -Midnight  ADM'TION ... !NT .ESTED 11.  destiny. It's all a lot of simple tricks  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  IBM. Set up PageMaker 5.0 in IP' t  (closed home football Saturdays)  HEARIN~ MORE?"  and nonsense.  
With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach  [WANTED  Great pay. 273-1952  0o0o0o0o0o0o0c0c0c0o0  Warm, prtlfessional Indiana couple, lots of experience with children,  I suggest you try it again, Luke. This time. let go your conscious self  
Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21  Will Pay $ For Used Mac  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!ll  would love to talk to you about what  and act on instinct.  
& 12/151 1-800-678-6386  TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­ Nonprofit needs used computers.  THE COPY SHOP  we can offer your precious child.  With the blast shield down, I can't  
Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching  Good price. 273-1952  LaFortune Student Center  Stability, nurturing, love of learning,  even see. How am I supposed to  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  basic conversational English in  Phone 631-COPY  travel, lots of extended family, and  fight?  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No  Need ride to DC for thanksgiving  0c0c0c0c0c0o0o0o0o0o0  full-time mom are just some of the  Your eyes can deceive you. Don't  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  teaching background or Asian lan­ Johnx2786  things that your child would experi­ trust them.  
Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book  guages required. For information  1-80 is damn boring!Ill-which is  ence in o'ur home. Interested in  Stretch out with your feelings.  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  FOR RENT  why I'd like some company when I drive home to Fairfield County  hearing more? CALL US (day or night). Expenses paid. Theresa &  You see, you can do it. I call it luck.  
6386  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ Connecticut for Xmas .... if you're  Lee 1-800-600-8428.  In my experience, there's no such  
Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND  interested and can drive stick call  thing as luck. (Yeah, whatever,  
WEEKLY MIDWAY TAVERN  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  232-2595  Dave at 4-1216 or 1-5323.  Tweedle-dee will always love her  Ben.)  
810W4TH MISH.  month. Room and Board!  Tweedle-dumb. Especially if  Look, going good against remotes  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30  Transporation! Male or Female. No  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  Tweedle-dumb buys her crackers.  is one thing. Going good against  
WED OPEN MIKE/JAM 9:00  experience necessary. Call  Breakfast Inn has space available  AuDITIONSiaUditions!AuDITIONS  You're so funny ...  the living? That's something else.  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  (206)545-4155 extA55842  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ The CavaMugh Hall Players  
2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  presents:  
255-0458 NEED ID  30 miles from campus. 1-800-418-·  Later Life by A.A. Gurney  $5.50 HAIRCUT  Jllk ... bagel party after turkey break?  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ 9487  Open auditions: 11/8 and 11/9  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  I'm there ... you know, you really are  
StomperBoB  Seasonal & full-time employment  Time: 7-10 p.m.  1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST  the light of my life. What'cha wear­ 
& the 4X4's  available at National Parks, Forests  Place: Cavanaugh Hall basement  233-4767  ing tomorrow? ... kn  
At Jazzman's  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  Comfortable 2 Bdrm home. 1 mi. to  Questions or cannot attend call:  
Thurs. Nov 9 1 0:00 pm  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  campus. $450/mo. Call Chuck  Mark (4-1212) or Andrew (4-3584)  wanna work out today turtle?  
N55842  Majcher at 273-0860.  AuDITIONS!aUditionsiAuDITIONSI  hey grumpy, you're not the loser  

-
•NFL
• BASEBALL 
Bates notches rarity for Saints
Cordova earns 
By MARY FOSTER game against Indianapolis. they have struggled on run 
Associated Press The last Saints player to have blocking, they have played well back-to-hack 100-yard games enough to keep the line pro­
Rookie of the Ye__..,.,,.,. 
NEW ORLEANS was Craig "Ironhead" Heyward gressing. 
By RONALD BLUM 
A.Nociated Pr~ 
NEW YORK 
Marty Cordova, the Minnesota Twins outfielder who had 24 homers and 84 RBis, was voted AL Rookie of the Year on Wednesday, edg­ing California's Garret Anderson in the closest race in 16 years. 
Cordova and Anderson each received 13 first-place votes in balloting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. Cordova had 13 sec­onds and one third for 105 points, while Anderson had 10 seconds and four thirds for 99 points. 
Andy Pettitte of the New York Yankees and Troy Percival of the Angels each received one first-place vote. 
Jt was the closest race in the AL since 1979, when Twins third baseman John Castino and Toronto shortstop Alfredo Griffin tied with seven votes each. 
The following year. the BBWAA switched to the sys· tern where each writer makes three picks, with 5 points first-place vote,.3 fora and 1 for a third. · · 
The last rookie by such a I).ll(tl'oW the NL award in. Steve Sax ofl..9& edged Pitt~burgll's Ray by .six point&. 
Cordova• 26, · · season hitting his major le April 26 an(l ..uu·r.... for-16 slump, but to hit .301 in May homers and 21 RB slumped to .247 in June, hit .293 in July. He cl strongly, hitting .304 Sept. 1 to the end of the sea· son with four homers and 23 RBis. 
He homered in five consecu· tive games from May 16~20, tying the major league rookie record set by Rudy York in 1937 and matched by George Aiusik in 1962 and Ron Kittle in 1983. 
It also matched the Twins record accomplished ~ce Harmon Kffiebrew in1970. 
Anderson hit .324 with 
1~ · homers and 69 RBis. 

Carroll Auditorium 
.Friday 7:00 P.M. & 9:45 P.M. Sunday 1:00 P.M. sATNT

. . $ MARY'S
AdmiSSIOn 2 So?.H·.~f.~ 
CINEMA AT THE SMITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
it.;'~~~'
/ttAJtflttt<l~ 
lH<;tl UlU)bE.tUCK 
J\t th• ,..,,m., ,,~ ta( wurW'• om~~n•>hmu.a umk,,. "'"' J """'ru~n ~llc~J uf!w titnr 

MONDAY 11/13 
REPULSION 7 PM 
VIDEODROME 9PM 
TUESDAY 11/14 
TERMINATOR 2: JUDGMENT DAY 7PM 
STAGECOACH 9:30PM 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
It's no coincidence. 
Mario Bates has back-to-hack 100-yard running games for the first time this season, and the New Orleans Saints have back-to-hack victories for the frrst timem this season. 
"J think anytime you have an outstanding game at a skill po­sition, be that a quarterback who passes for 400 yards, or a receiver who has three touch­downs, or a running back who has 100 yards, that enhances your chances to win," said run­ning backs coach Jim Skipper. 
Bates, who gained 106 yards against the Rams last week and 106 against the 49ers the week before, leads the Saints rushers with 562 yards in nine games. He has a 62-yard per game av­erage and a 4-yard average per carry heading into Sunday's 
• BOXING 
in 1990. Only three Saints have ever had three consecutive 100-yard rushing games ­George Rogers in 1981, Wayne Wilson in 1983 and Dalton Hilliard in 1989. 
Bates had one 100-yard game last season and finished the year with 579 yards to lead the team. 
"Mario has been running hard since the beginning of the season," Skipper said. "Now, he's running hard and there are some holes to run through." 
The offensive line has been patched together on the right side where Richard Cooper and Chris Port have missed the last two games with injuries. 
Andy McCollum and Craig Novitsky have come in, and al­though Coach Jim Mora said 
"We're executing well as a unit now," lineman William Roaf said. "Even with the sub­stitutions, we're getting good play from the line as a whole. I think it's just been a matter of working hard and staying with it." 
Against the Rams, the Saints found an extra punch for their ground game in No. 2 draft pick Ray Zellars, who sat out five games with a severely sprained ankle. Zellars collected 50 yards and a touchdown rush­ing. 
"It looks like we've found our 1-2 punch," quarterback Jim Everett said. "Mario is more like a thoroughbred, Ray more like a quarterhorse. Ray runs with a low center of gravity, and when he gets going, he's tough to bring down." 
King accused of lying in trial 
By LARRY NEUMEISTER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
A prosecutor's charge that Don King's testimony in his in­surance fraud trial was "absurd" and full of lies so up­set the boxing promoter's lawyer that he told jurors in closing arguments Wednesday he might cry. 
It was a lively climax to a six­week trial that had produced snores and yawns from specta­tors who watched prosecutors try to prove King faked a box­ing contract to collect $350,000 in insurance money for a 1991 cancelled tight. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Craig Stewart launched his closing 
Spring Break 1996 TRAVEL FREE!! 
Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas 
panama City. Daytona. Padre ** Great low, low prices •• Free Trip on only 15 sales 
Call for a FREE ~ jnformatjon oacket ! 'T 
~ Sun Splash Tours u 1-800-426-7710 

argument with an attack on King's credibility and urged ju­rors to use his own words to find him guilty of nine counts of wire fraud. 
"It's not fair and square to take a solemn oath to tell the truth ... and then tell you a story that has no relationship with the truth," Stewart told the federal jury in Manhattan. 
As boxer Mike Tyson watched with other spectators, Stewart said King's testimony over three days actually clarified the prosecution's case. 
King admitted it would have been wrong and deceptive to add a clause to a contract for the canceled bout after the fight was scrapped, Stewart said. 
"The question then becomes, ladies and gentlemen, was he a part of it ... and you know he was because the only person who stood to benefit was Don King," he said. 
Stewart said King lied any time he needed to cover up the fact that he participated at ev­ery turn in the attempt to fool Lloyd's of London into paying $350,000 in training expenses that were never incurred for the bout between Julio Cesar 
This Friday Night, November 1Qth and 
Dead o~ sV\~day 
Next Friday Night, November 1?h 
233~7747 
Chavez and Harold Brazier. 
Stewart described as "patent· ly absurd" testimony in which King said he was never told that his employees were asking for $350,000 in training expenses. 
"He knew. He orchestrated it," he said. "When he needed something on the witness stand ... he just made it up. That story, ladies and gentleman, was a lie." 
For two hours, Stewart bashed King's handling of the claim and then warned jurors to remember the promoter's misdeeds if defense lawyer Peter Fleming "sheds a tear for Don King" during his closing argument. 
Minutes later and late in the day, an angry Fleming followed the prosecutor and did not hide his emotions. 
"I may shed a tear," he told the jury as he began with a 45­minute summation that will continue Thursday morning. He wiped his nose several times and his voice seemed to crack as he spoke. 
Then he took aim at Stewart for accusing King of faking a contract, backdating checks and lying about conversations and then telling the jury, "Where I come from, they call that fraud." 
"Where I come from," Flem­ing said, angrily crumpling a piece of paper and throwing it beneath him, "no prosecutor is going to call a man a liar and I know he doesn't replace evi­­dence with speculation." 
"There's nothing that hap­pens in this case, no piece of evidence, that they don't choose to look at as sinister. That is the mark of prosecu­tors, who you might find have a higher obligation, trying to make a case," he said. 
The trial is the second federal case for King, 64, who in 1985 won an acquittal in a tax eva­sion case. 
King in the past quarter cen­tury has risen to the top of the boxing world, promoting Buster Douglas' stunning upset of Tyson in Tokyo in 1990, the "Rumble in the Jungle" be­tween Muhammad Ali and George Foreman in 197 4 and the "Thrilla in Manila" be­tween Ali and Joe Frazier in 1975. 
If convicted of the new charges, he could face up to five years in prison and a $250,000 tine on each count. 
Tha Observer/Rob Finch 
Navy quarterback Ben Fay is one of several reasons why the Army-Navy rivalry has escalated this season. 
Army steals Midshipmen goat 
By JOHN KEKIS 
Associated Press 
WEST POINT, N.Y. 
When three of Navy's mascot goats turned up missing over the weekend, it didn't take long to figure out who stole them. 
"We knew Army cadets were involved," Navy sports infor­mation director Tom Bates said, "because they cut through two fences to get to the goats, and 15 feet away there was an unlocked gate." 
Spoken like a true enemy. The truce is over. The service­academy pranksters are at war again. 
Five years after the acade­mies began making annual pacts to halt the mascot-steal­ing shenanigans because they were getting out of hand, Army has gotten Navy's goat again. The kid trio disappeared from a Maryland farm 15 miles from Annapolis during a predawn raid Sunday by a contingent of West Point seniors. 
"The goats are missing," Army public affairs officer Maj. Jay Ebbeson said. "And West Point cadets are behind it, I'm afraid." 
About all that is known is that the goats are somewhere in the Hudson River highlands near West Point. The cadets say they intend to keep them until the Army-Navy game in December, but the Army brass may have a say in that. 
"The cadets know where they are," said Brig. Gen. Robert J. St. Onge, in only his seventh week as commandant of cadets. "I am depending on the cadet chain of command to find those cadets who know, have them come forward and tell us where the goats are. We will, as soon as possible, after we have ascertained through our veterinarians that the goats are healthy and can travel, take them to Annapolis with the ap­propriate apologies. 
"I cannot guarantee that they'll have them before the game, but my intent is they'll have them much, much sooner than that." 
The cadets said the goat-nap­ping was payback for a 1991 Navy raid on West Point that netted all four of Army's mas­cot mules. 
This is a major coup for the cadets, who were duped big­time in 1990. They stole a goat they thought was Bill XXVI, the Navy mascot. Instead, they got "faux goat" -an ornery char­acter who was drummed out of Annapolis because of his bath­room habits. 
Navy wasn't the only week­end victim. High in the Col­orado Rockies, Air Force was recovering from the theft of the Commander-in-Chiers Trophy, the symbol of football suprema­cy among the service acade­mies. 
Army invaders stole the hard­ware from the Falcons' trophy case and left a hand-scribbled note-"We took it early 'cause we're going to win it anyway" -in its place. A security guard discovered the empty case 
JAZZMAN~s I~ NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 
presents: 
THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT Nov9 
presents: 
•STOMPER BOB & THE 4 X 4S 
•Guest OJ TONY TONY 
playing your favorite Tootsie Roll, Booty Call and Hip Hop music to dance to between band breaks 
•Dance Floors Open Until 3:00am 
•Must be 21 or older for admittance 
$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
Save $2.00 With This Ad Before 10:30 pm 
early Sunday. 
This is serious business, folks. The Air Force public affairs likened the theft to a "tragedy ... on the same level of shock and outrage a security guard at the Louvre would feel at the theft of the Mona Lisa." 
"We're a little bit con­cerned," Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry said during a break in preparation for Saturday's game against Army. "Really, it was just a prank in the spirit of the game, I'm sure the culprits are some Army exchange students we have here. It'll probably turn up sometime." 
DeBerry was right. In an about face, a group of exchange students from West Point returned the trophy Tuesday morning to Lt. Gen. Paul E. Stein, who accepted it with a forced grin. 
Air Force used the incident to fire up the Falcons. Coaches dragged the empty trophy case and the note into the locker room on Monday. 
Jm3,Mtm.t1Ul& nnrorttA.: 
tttt>u•t1nl 
Purdue until M(rl)t<l\nlt''cam,e· in and rallied 
a 3f·24win. .. ng year. Notre trailing Housto:P 
the Cotton Bowl when 
·Montana. who was being treated for hypothermia, led the Irish to a 35·34 win. ··· 
It's memories like· that that kept Krug cahn when he tOok over for an i:Pjured Ro:P Powlus a:Pd rallied the Irish to a 35-17 win over Navy last 
thrAflvP.Jirqfor, and he . both the ·..tt•>'*"H·"" I 
the . Jri stride. · ..ttY :p!)tto make it bigger · tban tpsr Krug said. ''Wbe:P 1 
. (la~~ here, l thought it was ·the greatest thing, playing . quart:erlnick at Notre Dame. 
· Now that you're on the team and you know the guys, it~s not as: big as everybody makes it uptobe. 
"It lll!lY be in other people's eyes; but whe:P you've bee:P quarterbacking for as long as I have and playing sports aU yourJJfe, it's something ·you just go out there and do and have !tin doing · Krtlg said~ 
. Los Ga.t()S> team to a 
.. juniol". and: 
a backup Wasn't easy; chose Notre 
:sumrjCJrd · becau$e 
..,.;.;·... _...._ h,ad too nutriy artElrbllLCk:s and Krug didn't much playing tbne he'd But a few weeks after Krug committed to Notre Dame, Powlns, the highest-rated high school quarterback in the na­tion, signed with the Irish; · Even whe:p Powlus broke his collarbone and sat out his freshman year, Krug knew he'd be Powlus' backup when­ever he ca.me back. When Powlus couldn't take hits during spring practice his freshman year, it wa.s Krug who got knocked down and beaten up. While others might have re­$ented Powlus. Krug ·said · . are. .. good friends. made his sec~ little ell,Sier 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
-
•NBA 
Kings give Raptors a lesson 
Celtics stop SuDs 
Aasociatcd Preu 
TORONTO 
Mitch Richmond found the spacious SkyDome to his liking Wednesday night. 
Richmond hit 13 of 16 field goals en route to 32 points as the Sacramento Kings contin­ued their best start in 35 years with a 109-90 victory over the Toronto Raptors. · 
"I think they were trying to rotate on me most of the night, and that left me a lot of room," said Richmond, who led the Kings to just their third 4-0 start in franchise history and first since 1960-61, when Oscar Robertson was a rookie with the Cincinnati Royals. 
The Raptors, who gave the Indiana Pacers and the Chicago Bulls a scare in their previous two outings, were no match for the stronger Kings. 
Toronto managed to pull to within four points to trail 7 4-70 following Tracy Murray's field goal with 1:15 to play in the third quarter. But that was as close as the Raptors would get. 
Richmond responded with a 3-pointer to put the Kings up by seven. 
"Mitch had the hot hand, so we kept him in the game," said Kings coach Garry St. Jean. "When Mitch had the rhythm going. I couldn't take him out. We just kept trying to get him the ball." 
It was all Sacramento in the fourth quarter, and the Raptors look like an expansion team for the first time this season. 
"We played very soft," said Raptors coach Brendan Mal­one. "We only played in spurts. I thought we really played like an expansion team tonight, and 
to ~arn first win 
that was the first time I've felt like that this season." 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
While both teams appeared 
Associated Preas
tired at times, the Kings were the much more physical team 
. bo. . BOSTON
down the stretch. 
Pino'Radja and. Dee Brown
"A guy like Damon 
se~>ra~ 2l points each as the
Stoudamire isn't used to play­
·BQ · · Celtics got thalr first 
ing back-to-hack," Richmond 
wt tbe.seas()n113.. 109
said. "Yeah, they may have · .· · ·· · · byio'Ptrun"been a bit tired, but it's also probably a case of a young 
ed 
team getting used to them­
·J>,bneiflk 20,. .·.· .. .. reaks.
selves." 
!!;t.beit ~t\St i.l•• !\t!ift .·· ·. 'l)y Rick
Malone, whose team played 
.iFl>X'$' r~bound ~d. h•ns pass
the Bulls even for 44 minutes 
and eapped, by 1\adja'f:i dunk
Tuesday night, wasn't buying 
.with 1:08left. gave them a
the tired angle. 
109·103lead. .
"You don't come to a game 
.M& Fox added 16 points for the
and use fatigue as an excuse," 
'Celtics (1-2). \Vbo were play-
he said. 
ing their second game in the 
new FleetCenter. The Suns. off to a 1-3 start after winning
Heat squeak past Rockets the Pacific Division last sea­
By STEVEN WINE Associated Press 
MIAMI 
The Miami Heat needed just two games to achieve unprece­dented success under Pat Riley. 
Keith Askins hit a pair of free throws to break a tie with 1:02 left Wednesday and the Heat improved to 2-0 for the first time in their eight-year history by beating two-time defending champion Houston 89-82. 
In another breakthrough with their new coach, the Heat broke an 11-game losing streak against the Rockets dating back to November 1989. 
The Rockets, who fell to 3-1, scored six consecutive points to tie the game at 82 but failed to score in the final two minutes. 
After Askins gave the Heat an 84-82 lead. Sam Cassell missed a shot for Houston, and Miami's Bimbo Coles scored with 31 seconds left for a four-point margin. 
Hakeem Olajuwon scored 22 points for Houston and needs eight to become the 21st player to reach the 20,000-point plateau. Olajuwon won his in­dividual battle against Miami's Alonzo Mourning, acquired in a six-player trade last Friday. 
Mourning missed 10 of 13 shots, scored 13 points and had eight rebounds. But in the final 90 seconds he tipped a pass to force a turnover, blocked a shot, grabbed a rebound and hit two free throws. 
The Heat played without Sasha Danilovic, who served a one-game suspension for fight­ing with Cleveland's Chris Mills. Askins started for Danilovic and scored 15 points. 
Coles and Billy Owens each scored 18 points for Miami, which turned in its second strong defensive performance in a row. Houston shot just 39 percent. 
Miami never trailed in the second half, scoring eight con­secutive points for a 51-39 lead and six in a row to lead 78-70. 
report on his condition. 
Phoenix took its last lead 103·102 on Green's two free throws with 2:38left. 
Brown's layup and Sherman Douglas' three-point play put Boston ahead 107·103. Person then missed a jumper, Fox rebounded and Radja dunked. 
Rookie Michael Finley's three-point play cut the lead to 109·106 with 1:04 remain· ing. After Eric Williams hit two foul shots for Boston, Person sank a 3-pointer, mak· ing the score 111-109 with 15 seconds to go. 
But Brown made two free throws, and Barkley missed a 3-pointer with four seconds to go. 
Consecutive baskets by Eric Montross and Radja gave Boston a 1 02·1 01 Jead with 
3:43 left before Green's two free throws. 
The Celtics led 62·57 at halftime as they outscored Phoenilt 14·0 on fastbreaks. 
Green scored 15 points as the Suns led 39-33 after the first quarter. They extended the lend to 48·36, but Boston went on a 19-4 surge and took a 55·52 lead with 3:21 left in the half. 
Phoenix tied the game 57­57 on John Williams' layup. Then the Celtics scored the last five points of the half on Brown's three free throws and David Wesley's driving layup. 
son, were led by Charles Barkley wHh 24 points, Wesley Person with 22 and 
A.C. Green with 21. 
The Suns were playing their second game in two nights af­t~r.overcoming a 10-point, fourth-quarter deficit and beating the Knicks 102·94 in 
·New YQrk. The Celtics hadn't 
~~;played since Saturday night 
.'TWhen t)1ey 19st i~ Cl\jcago
107·85:· . dV 
····· l<evjnJJohnson didn't play after hurting his''left knee with 1 :SO left in the third quarter when he fell while dribbllng the ball to the right of the Suns• basket. He walked off the court without help. There was no immediate 


• 

MEN'S BASKETBALL STUDENT SEASON TICKET HOLDERS: 
Present your student ticket booklet at tonight's men's basketball season opener and receive a FREE Notre Dame Basketball t-shirt courtesy of: 

For more info.,·call 631·6095 
~ I 
r 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 1995 
-
•NBA 
Bullets speed past Hornets 
Associated Press 
Despite missing 10 straight shots, Joe Dumars led Detroit to victory. 
Dumars pours in 41 to spark Pistons 
Associated Press 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
Joe Dumars, playing on a bad hamstring, scored 41 points in 42 minutes to lead the Detroit Pistons to a 107-100 overtime victory over the Portland Trail Blazers Wednesday. 
Dumars missed 10 straight shots in one stretch but did enough to help Doug Collins pick up his first win as the Pis­tons' coach. 
The game was tied 91-91 at the end of regulation. 
But Grant Hill and Joe Du­mars hit back-to-hack jumpers to put the Pistons up by four with 1:27 to go. 
Allan Houston hit one free throw and Terry Mills tipped in the missed second shot to make it 100-93 with 55 seconds to go. 
ClifT Robinson hit a 3-pointer to tie the game at 91 with 33 seconds left in regulation. 
Dumars missed his lOth straight shot with 10 seconds left, and Portland couldn't get a shot ofT before the end of regu­lation. 
Grant Hill added 19 for De­troit. Robinson had 30 for Portland and Rod Strickland added 25. 
The Pistons led 70-64 at the end of three quarters, and Grant Hill started the fourth with a three-point play. 
After a Portland miss, rookie Theo Ratliff jammed home Al­lan Houston's miss to move the lead into double digits. The lead got as high as 12, but two 3-pointers by q-.foot-3 Arvydas Sabonis and seven free throws helped Portland get to 85-84 with 3:38 to play. 
The Pistons led 50-49 at the half, and with two minutes to go in the third, they had pulled out to a 66-62 advantage. 
With the score tied at 14, Du­mars scored eight points in a 12-2 run that put the Pistons ahead by 10 with three minutes left in the first period. 
But James Robinson hit a 3­pointer at the buzzer to make it 30-25, and when the Trail Blazers scored the first eight points of the second, they had a three-point lead. 
The Pistons put together an eight-point run of their own late in the half to go ahead 48­42, but Portland was able to come back and trail by just one at the half. 
Snite Museum Shop PRE-CHRISTMAS 
SALE 
20% to 60% off most items! 
Friday & Saturday 
November lOth & 11th 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. 
The Charlotte Hornets knew there would be nights like this after they traded Alonzo Mourning. 
Without Mourning in the mid­dle, Bullets center Gheorghe Muresan scored 13 of his ca­reer-high 31 points in the fourth quarter and blocked nine shots Wednesday night to lead the Washington Bullets past the Hornets 110-96. 
The Hornets tried to defend the 7 -foot-7 Muresan with Matt Geiger and rookie George Zidek, but neither was success­ful. Geiger fouled out and Zidek picked up four fouls. 
"It's impossible to stop him," Zidek said. 
"At the center position, no one could contest a shot," Charlotte coach Allan Bristow said. "He probably had his best game as a pro." 
Without a doubt. Muresan, getting extended playing time in place of the injured Chris Webber, made 13 of 16 shots and grabbed nine rebounds in 39 minutes. 
"When he plays like that, you get so much out of everyone," Bullets coach Jim Lynam said. "When he got double-teamed, he kicked the ball out to the open man. He was terrific." 
The 6-foot-10 Mourning was dealt to Miami last week in a six-player deal after he de­manded a salary the Hornets weren't willing to pay. One of the players Charlotte got in the trade, Glen Rice, scored 38 points. 
Playing his third game with the Hornets. he had 36 points on 13-for-17 shooting through three quarters. 
But he missed all three of his field goal attempts in the fourth quarter. 
"Without Alonzo Mourning they're a different team," Ly­nam said. "But Rice brings a few· problems of his own." 
Charlotte was attempting to go 3-1 for the first time in the eight-year history of the fran­chise. 
Calbert Cheaney had 22 points for the Bullets and Juwan Howard 20. Robert Pack had 18 assists, most of them on passes to Muresan on the base­line. 
"If he keeps shooting like that, I'll call his play every time down the court," Pack said. 
After a technical foul shot by Tim Legler gave Washington an 88-84-lead, Muresan made a three-point play and Zidek scored for the Hornets. 
Muresan then hit two straight baseline jumpers and added two free throws for a 97-86 lead. Pack capped the 12-2 surge with a driving layup. 
IStudent Affairs presents or Our Rights: 
lt4-e't(.t4tt(.te '8a-e-~teu' 
SovEREIGNTY: 
e ·Americas mber 9, 1995 ary Auditorium 
OPM iately Following­
".... Not only the indig­enous peoples, but the earth to which they are irrevocably linked, are 
now dying. If the land dies, no humans can survive. In avery real sense, the fate of Native America and the fate of the planet are one...." -Ward Churchill 
" .•. No matter what Americans believe, most of us in the colonies do not feel gratelul that our country was stolen, along with our citizenship, our lands and our independent place among the family of nations..." -Haunani-Kay Trask 
tltiJ lt,trlatu, (elftll 1f Aru & Lt111r1, h14ul thiu lur4. 
American Awareness Month.­
papa hula 'o Kou Hakou 11akuahint 
-
•NFL 
Hostetler returns to Meadowlands 
By BARRY WILNER 
AMoci~ted Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD. N.J. 
.Jeff Hostetler's laugh sound­ed genuine over the phone line from 3,000 miles away. If he is anxious about his first meeting with his former team, he hid lt well. 
Hostetler guides the Oakland Raiders Into Giants Stadium, his formf:lr home, to face the Giants on Sunday. The Haiders are 7 ·2, the sec­ond-best record in the NFL, and Hostetler is having a good year. The Giants are 3·6 and their quarterback, Dave Brown, is struggling. 
So Boss could gloat if he wanted. He could stick it to the Giants and Dan Reeves, the coach who bid him farewell as a Cree agent when he chose Phil Simms as his quarterback in 1993. He could let loose some venom. 
That is not his way, howev­er. And considering where he and the Raiders are -and where his former team has fallen -it was understand· able for Hostetler to stay. away from any controversy. 
"I look at the Giants and don't see a whole lot of guys there from when I was there,'' he said Wednesday. "A lot of faces have changed, coaches and things like that. And I played back in the Meadowlands this year against the Jets (a 4 7-10 vic­tory). 
"I don't have any axes to grind against these guys. l have some good friends there." Hostetler stepped in for an injured Simms late in the 1990 season and led the Giants to a Super Bowl victo~ ry. When Ray Handley replaced Bill Parcells as coach, there was m)lcb waf.,;. fling on whether Simms or Hostetler was the No. 1 quar~ terback. 
After Handley was frred and Reeves hired, Simms was kept and Hoss headed west. 
"One of the things l tbink I learned In New York is yo~ can't be caught up in all the · distractions," Hostetler said. "That is about as tough a situation as you can he in, coming in after winning a Super Bowl and battling for your job with, basically, a Giants legend and it's a no· . win situation. So you learn to · concentrate on what you can control." 
A.D.A.M. Standard ·Student Edition is your multimedia survival kit for passing 
anatomy. Dissect, identify, study systems and regions. Prepare. better, faster. 
Special student price-$149.95 
Visit your college bookstore or calll-800-322-1377. 
The Observer 
is looking for a dedicated individual for: 
News Copy Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement and resume to Dave Tyler by Nov. 13. Contact Dave at 1-5323 for more information. 

Women's Pairings 
1 Pan born 
80-C 
1 Pangborn 4PE 
4PE 5 Lewis 4PE 
6 Lyons 3Walsh 
Women's6 Lyons 

6 Flanner LYONS HALL Champions 
6 Flanner 7 Stanford 
2 Dillon 7 Badin 7 Stanford 
Men denied chance at Stadium 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
After a long season filled with many ups and downs, the foot­ball teams of Flanner and Fisher have earned the right to play the interhall championship game in ... Moose Krause Sta· dium?? 
Unfortunately, the 1995 men's interhall championship will not be held in Notre Dame Stadium, as H has for many years. 
When a construction crew be­gan to dismantle the walls of our hallowed stadium, it also ended the dream of every play· er who will compete for the interhall title this Sunday. 
Although the reactions of players from Flanner and Fisher range from anger to mere disappointment, no one is pleased to end the season across the street from the "House that Rockne Built." 
"We finally earn a spot in the finals, but we aren't able to play in the stadium. For a lot of players, that is the main rea· son we strive to reach the championship every year. So the team is a little disappoint· ed," commented Flanner sophomore Brad Gilman. 
Similar feelings exist across campus where Fisher players felt they earned the right to compete in Notre Dame Stadium when they upset top· ranked Zahm. 
"We didn't hear about it until after the semi-final game. It's very disappointing. It is a good tradition to look forward to. I guess they had to start the con­struction, but I wish they could have waited to tear up the field," remarked Fisher running 

SOUNDS UNLIMITED PRODUCTIONS 
presents 
SOUTH BEND RECORD & CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
Sunday, November 12 
10:00 am -5:00 pm 
AT THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 515 Dixieway N., US 31-33 North 
$1.00 OFF ADMISSION WITH THIS AD 
BUY • SELL • TRADE MUSIC COLLECI'IBLES FROM THE 50's • 60's • 70's • 80's • 90's 
LPs • CDs • 45's • 12 inch singles • imports • posters • magazines books • concert photos • videos • t·shirts • cassettes • pins patches and much more! 
For Dealer Info Call Blain at (616) 375-2776 • Door Prizes • 
Men's Pairings 
1 Zahm 
8 Carroll 
1 Zahm 5 Fisher 
4 Keenan 5 Fisher
Sunday at Stepan 
3Aiumnl 
back Dayne Nelson. 
Greg Kigar, RecSports Intra· mural Coordinator, said that the option of playing a week earlier was not safe for the men's teams. The women were allowed to play three games during the final week of the 

season because they play flag football, which is less danger· ous than the men's tackle foot· ball. Kigar did not want the full-contact games to cause any injuries going into the champi· onship game. 
"We just couldn't let tackle football teams play three games in eight days. With the safety factor, it wasn't possible." 
The explanation from Rec­Sports still does not satisfy many of the players in Sunday's game. 
"It seems ridiculous that the last game in the 'House that Rockne Built' is P.E. versus Lyons. We usually play the championship game on the same day," argued Fisher senior Mark Troske. 
Senior players such as Troske find the decision especially difficult to accept, because this is probably the last time they will ever play competitive foot· ball. 
"We pay a great deal of money to go to school here, so you would think they would lis· ten to our opinions once in a while." 
Despite the disappointment felt by the players of Flanner and Fisher, the location of Sunday's interhall champi· onship game is Moose Krause Stadium. 
For the members of the championship team of 1995, their memories will not include a team picure at midfield in Notre Dame Stadium... It will not include a game-winning touchdown in the same end· zone that has been home to the Irish greats. It will not include the opportunity to march through "the tunnel" before the opening kickoff. 
The champions will still know, however, that their team at least earned the right to experience all of those things. 
"Personally, regardless of where we play, this is not any less of a game. It is still the championship game," said Gilman. 
Yes it is, but it won't be the same. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staf£ 
Nov. 9, 10, 11 ot 8p.m. Nov. 12 ot 2:30 p.m. Moreau Center/Uttle Theatre For ticket informotion, coll219/284-4626 Mon. -Fri., 9a.m. ·Sp.m. 
-l 
1 
1 
I 
~ 
I 
-
,­
1 
I 
t 
! 
I 
I 
i I I 
I 
1­
~ 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
~ 
r 
I 
I I 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBAll 
Belles cap frustrating season 

By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The expression "a losing sea­son" has never appealed to any athletic team. Never appealed, and especially never imagined by the Saint Mary's volleyball team this year. 
As they began their season with steady improvements as well as an array of solid wins, the possibility of an 10-15 finish would have resembled a sick joke. 
However, when the players awoke from their slumber Sun­day, morning they were sad­dened by the reality that their misery was not a dream. The Belles had fmished their season the afternoon before with three final losses. Their record for the 1995 season would endure as 10-15. A losing season. 
"The season started out great," coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said. "But we ended up very disappointed with the fmal games." 
Sometime during their long and restful Fall Break, the Belles abandoned their will to 
Basketball uuicuus-·Ne·eae~a 
for >.• Interhall 
Grad!F~C!Staf£ G 
$8.50 a''game. If rently a C(hRec vuJ_.culJ 
wouldyllk:e to · · 
Basketb'hll leagues, · ,-~~--~,.,... 
631-'6100 and ask for 
Women•s ,_..._,.,r.......,... 
will be in Loftus on 
and 15 from 9-10 p.m, · 
will be 0Uf last ni'~IPti.P<>Q· the semester. Any qu•1rstiom•'1 
Call Alison at 239-7924. 
Fall Ball Classic-ReeSports 
and Student Activities are eo~ 
sponsoring this 3 on 3 .Qas:Kel.:l 
ball tournament which will 
held NQvember 7 and 8. • 
entry fe.e.is $6.00 
win. Just before the break, the team possessed a winning record of 10-7. They had re­cently defeated Lake Forest College in three straight sets, displaying the highest ability of skill in both communicating and attacking thus far. 
The next Saturday, however, the team surrendered in a strong battle against Kalama­zoo, who was at the time ranked fifth in the nation. 
The story ended there. The team returned from break, leaving their ability to focus somewhere along the way. The Belles went on to loose their next eight games. 
"We lost our winning attitude after October Break," senior Sara Stronczek said. "We lost our will to win, our concentra­tion, as well as our internal ef­forts. It was frustrating to not see our winning strive." 
Senior Ann Lawrence at­tributes the season's disappointing close to a miscommunication among the team. 
"Overall, we were a very tal­ented team this season, but we just weren't able to be strong when we needed to be," Lawrence said. "We had prob­lems with miscommunication, which I have noticed on previ­ous teams. In the last few games we just didn't believe that we could win. What was needed was a strive from not only the players on the court but from the players on the bench as well. We didn't have that." 
For Lawrence, along with se­nior teammates Stronczek and Kelley Prosser, Saturday's game marked the last time the women will wear a Saint Mary's volleyball uniform. 
"Ann was my only four-year player this year," said Schroeder-Biek. "She has shown so much improvement over the last few years, every­thing has certainly come to­gether for her. Defensively she has improved greatly on key digs. Even though she did not earn the most on the team this year, she got the important ones." 
Prosser arrived on Schroeder­Biek's door front at the begin­ning of last year's season after she transferred from another college. In her last two sea­sons, Prosser proved to be an excellent gift to the team. 
"I was thrilled that Kelley transferred as a junior," said Schroeder-Biek. "Because she made an immediate contribu­tion in both the leadership and the physical aspects of the team. She fit well with the team." 
Stronczek, who was unable to play her freshman year due to shoulder surgery, made an immediate contribution to the team when she joined her sophomore year. 
"Sara is very talented, versa­tile, and can play every position on the court," Schroeder-Biek said. "She is always intense and never gives it less than her all." 
Although these three women will no longer be members of a Saint Mary's athletic team, they intend to form their own team in the spring in order to com­pete in off-season play. 
"We're getting a team to­gether to play in the off-sea­son," said Lawrence. "We will play with alumni and other ath­letes from around the area. So the underclassmen better look out." Stronczek also wishes to leave the underclassmen with a message. 
"I really appreciated the un­derclassmen this year," Stron­czek said. "I enjoyed playing with them. No team can be successful without everyone participating. I will miss every-
Student Reading Auditions November 15, 1995 
Student Reading Night is February 13, 1996 (Part of the Sophomore Literary Festival February 10-15, 1996) 
Call Bryce at X1934 by November 10 to set up an audition 
The Sophomore Literary Festival is brought to you by SUB 
Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wednesday, November 15 Sp.m. Thursday, November 16 Sp.m. Friday, November 17 Sp.m. Saturday, November 18 Sp.m. Sunday, November 19 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for all pedonnances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders call63!-8128 
one I played with this year." 
An impressive accomplish­ment this year was achieved by sophomore Kelly Meyer. Meyer ended the season 18th in the nation in assists, with 10.45 per game. 
"Meyer is a very selfless play­er," Schroeder-Biek said. "She was a hitter her freshman year, but I needed a setter des­perately. I felt that she was the most athletic-she's quick, fast, and has great reflexes, so I moved her to the setter posi­tion. By the middle of the year she gained enough confidence to run the offense herself. I tribute this to her skill and her portrayal of a real team play­er." 
Meyer herself denies the at­tention, claiming that her suc­cess was the reflection of the team's efforts as a whole. 
"We really got along well this season," Meyer said. "I could­n't have had as many assists as I did if the others hadn't gotten the kills." 
0~ :.PRING BREAK 
":;::)f'RM 
__. ~ $soo.~ 
8 Days/7 Nites Air, Hotel, 
-.._ 7 & More... From Chicago FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 
=-~ 
ERIC HYLLENGREN AT 634-1157 OR
a.~ 
BIANCID-ROSSI TOURS AT 
"~ TOURS 
.,~ ••~ tiM& IQQ fAID-Jll.ill.l( ~PRING.1 •• llillllll """4 •PAATU.~ iVi.R\' Ifni!! 10:30PM-lOONA•
(Q6 
OPEN BAR AT n!E BEST Q.UBS ON ntE PLANET!! 
7 GO LOCO tN AC!APULCO II 


Sunday, November 12 2:00P.M. Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
$5 general admission; $2 students/senior citizens 
Call 631-6201 for more info. 


-
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 
BIG EAST ALIGNMENT 

German team provides first test ofyear 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Intensity in practices is usual­ly lauded by coaches as a sign that their team is focused. 
With two key players out due to injury, Irish head coach John MacLeod can't afford too much more intensity. 
Rather, he will be happier when his squad can finally fo­cus on someone other than each other, as Notre Dame opens its season with an exhi­bition game against a touring team from Germany tonight at 
7:30 in the Joyce Center. 
"We've had some very intense workouts," noted MacLeod. "We're going to need to be intense going into the Big East." 
That intensity, though, has come at a cost. Junior guard Pete Miller is out until early De­cember with ligament damage to his thumb, while star fresh­man Gary Bell is still hobbled by a calf injury and will likely miss the remainder of the pre­season. 
Bell's injury is especially troublesome. The 6-5 forward was expected to contribute heavily for the Irish, but a series of ailments have kept him out of most of the presea­son. Rehabilitation from off­season back surgery, a knee 
FLOWERS DELIVERED cS17 DAYScSi 

Georgetown Miami Pittsburgh Providence Rutgers Seton Hall Syracuse 
problem, academic troubles, and now the calf injury have all hampered Bell's progress. 
"Gary Bell has missed the conditioning so far," noted MacLeod. "We had some trou­ble scoring last year, and he can provide that. He also has the tools to become a major league defender." 
On the positive side, MacLeod has been able to take a solid look at the healthy Irish players due to an unusually long pre­season. 
The five starters who emerged from preseason work­outs represent a new look. Shooting guard Ryan Hoover, 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

Clocktower Square 
ALL MAJOR CREDIT 
Phone Answered 
with a 15-10 record while ad­
51400 US 31 North 
South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
vancing to the state's parochial semifinals.
277·1291 or 1·800·328·0206 
NEW'"SFLASH 
Accepting art work through Friday, November 10 for annual LaFortune Student Art Show 
Any Questions, call 631-7308 
Boston College U Conn Notre Dame St. John•s Villanova West Virginia 
power forward Pat Garrity, and center Marcus Young return from last season, while point guard Admore White and small forward Derrick Manner will make their debut in the start­ing lineup. 
The exhibition should allow MacLeod a chance to further evaluate the team, and minutes are likely to be evenly dis­tributed. 
Among the anticipated appearances is that of senior Keith Kurowski, who has had a productive preseason and looks to be fully recovered from past injury problems. 
"We need a healthy Keith Kurowski this year," said MacLeod. "It's been great to see him in uniform during practice and not in street clothes." 
While an exhibition contest, MacLeod also anticipates a dif­ferent atmosphere than has characterized past Irish games. 
"We think there's going to be a different environment in our arena, a different fan re­sponse," said MacLeod. 
"When the players walk across campus Thursday night, their nervous system will know they are coming to play a game." 
... 
Notre Dame reaped the first benefits of its enhanced recruiting exposure when Todd Palmer, a forward from Har­rington Park, NJ, signed a na­tional letter of intent Wednes­day to play for the Irish. 
Palmer, 6-8, 215-pounds, has averaged 19 points and 12 re­bounds throughout his scholas­tic career, and is on track to become Don Bosco Prep's lead­ing career scorer. 
Last season his team finished 
B-BALL 
continued from page 24 
could take it on the chin, but we'll just learn from every loss. Anything worth accomplishing takes time." 
While the senior guard may sound like a bit like a motiva­tional tape, his enthusiasm is real. "This is a new era for Irish basketball," Kurowski proclaimed. "It's a chance to get on the national map." 
MacLeod was just as de­lighted. "This is the best thing to hap­pen to Notre Dame basketball." 
Tranghese unveiled a new two-divisioned alignment for the 13 team Big East yester­day. 
"This structuring has nothing to do with scheduling or ex­pansion," Tranghese ex­plained. "It is a mechanism to seed our teams in the confer­ence tournament. It will keep things more competitive throughout the season." 
...· . No Advance Sign· Ups or EstablishedTeams·Necessa.ry . , 
.. ' 631~61'00 ~·~ ·... ,<;. ·~:r::t~<..::<;t:;i~~..•1~ ·_,;· 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0 aner your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I.D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person nyou recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. CoME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-601 0 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 9, 1995 
Holtz may call on Jackson against Falcons 
everyday I'm getting a few with Tommy Frasier, does it
Freshman quarterback makes significant strides 
snaps and it's coming along. today. 
despite struggling early behind Pow/us, Krug 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assistant Sports Editor 
There is no way to down play the importance of Notre Dame's game versus Air Force. Should the Irish win, they will go to a major bowl. If they fail, the University loses eight million dollars. 
But don't worry Thomas Krug and Jarious Jackson, there's no pressure. 
At the moment, while Krug has the honor of leading the
' 
Irish into Falcon Stadium on
I 
I November 17, Jackson waits in 
i the wings. Wondering if his 
~ moment will come. 
Off the field, fans cautiously
r~ 
look over to Jackson and re­member other option quarter­backs by the names of Kevin McDougal and Tony Rice. They may understand the reason of Krug's starting because of ex­perience, but they also realize the power of the Irish option and impetuously hope that Jackson has his moment to shine. 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
• 1'91 PERSON DEP!HIHNG 0H WTINATION IBRE!K DATES /LENGTit OF STAY. 
f~8C:lC:l~SIINC11·4S·E: 
TOLL,..,., IN~·T10N & I!E"S~·TIONS 
0111111' Mill • liTE ar. 
This anticipation has been He has instead worked with present since the day Jackson the scout team as quarterback verbally committed to Notre and occasional linebacker Dame. He was compared to re-preparing the Irish first and cent college second teams 
~y~~;~t~~r~ 1996 IRtSH ~~y~i~~r:~~~
legend Rice. The option was his forte, but he also had the strong arm to be an effective pass­er. Or so they thought. 
ar~?val h:~ F' 
Notre Dame the coaching staff found some problems in his throwing mechanics. Compounding this problem, Jackson sprained his ankle and missed most of the two-a-day work outs. 
He never was able to rebound and cement himself as the backup to Ron Powlus as many thought he would. 
climb your way back up to the top," Jackson said. "That's what I'm doing." 
Yet the time hasn't been lost. Jackson 
~:be~~ wo~~~ 
throwing and 
has improved dramatically. It also doesn't hurt that Powlus and Krug are classic dropback passers and could be good teachers for the freshman. 
"When I was throwing, I was just shooting it," Jackson ex­plained. 
"It didn't seem like my arm was following through. But I've learned a lot by just watch­ing Ron (Powlus) and Tom Krug. I'm just watching their technique and listening to what Coach Holtz is telling them to do. I'm a better passer now." 
"He's improved his throwing tremendously," Irish head coach Lou Holtz agreed. "I think Jarious Jackson will be a very, very good passer." 
In all honesty, it is not his passing that the Irish need from Jackson. It's his running. Use .the pass to keep the de­fense honest and attack the with the option. That was the way the Irish did it in 1988, 1989 and 1993, and Nebraska, 
Whether he starts or just en­ters on certain occasions, Jack­son provides the Irish with an­other weapon. One that the Irish will not be afraid to use. 
"This is an important game. We'd certainly like to win it," Holtz said. 
"We'll do whatever we can. We aren't holding J arious Jackson out on purpose, and we aren't going to hold him out on purpose. We'll try to get him ready." 
Actually, if you wanted to know if he was ready, all you had to do was ask. 
"Oh yeah, I'm ready," said Jackson. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological andphilosophicalbooks! 
Grand Opening Sale Nov. 4-11 

Featuring books by: John Paul II, von Balthasar, Congar, De 

r.=~=--"""":='-----.:--~~----~......----. ti~MII: Lubac, Aquinas, Maritain, Hauerwas, N.T. Wright, Mother Teresa, C.S. Lewis, Newman, Chesterton, Bonhoeffer and many more! Also: Fathers of the Church, Vatican II Faces Artistic Design Center documents, encyclicals, Bibles and scripture 
547:7 Fir Road 255-5556 study, prayer, lives of the saints. 
MIShawaka 
Complete Set of Nails We can special order any bookyou need! 
...$3500 
Hair • Skin Care • Nails • Massages • Tanning Offer Good 'till 12/15/95 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). 287-0349 Open 10-5 Tues-Fri; 10-4 Saturday 
~~"'-.:.t, shake your bootie like Rudy, get down or get outta town, grttb tt tttttte ttnlf girttte 
II
-
Broughtto •
you, ourlitde lambchops, by: 
!ITUDENT VNION BOAIID 

7:00p.m. 
Joyce Center Ice Arena 
notre dame hockey JlsiJ 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 9, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will biU you 99 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
'{\KES! NOT t>-1-lOTl-{~R • 
EXTR£.ti\E CLOS'E.·IJP ON 
St>Mt.Beli)~S ~~G\l\'51-\ ~~ GR\1:.1=.' 
cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: The financial picture looks rosy. Careful planning and organization are the key to making an alliance work. A lucky break comes through college connections or family friends. February and March of 1996 are great months for travel. You find romance on a tennis court or ski slope. Channel your creativity into the field of communications. Your clever way with words could make you a media star! Keep in touch with longtime pals. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: astronomer Carl Sagan, pitcher Bob Gibson, movie star Hedy Lamarr, folk singer Mary Travers. ARIES (March 21-Apri: 19):oN 1-\\JMM~ DIG~\\'{! 
Shake hands on an importar -ieal. You need to weigh a proposaJ care­
f. 
fully before turning thumbs down. Tempting side issues could prove 
, distracting. Build on a flash of inspi­ration. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Stimulating new work projects keep you on the run. Misunderstandings could arise with co-workers. Take steps to correct a wrong impression. Becoming a bookwonn improves your vocabulary. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Creative work or a romantic inter­
SCOTT ADAMS 
lude makes this a super day. The emphasis is on building bridges of understanding between family mem­bers. Hasty decisions are best avoid­ed. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be in line for a promotion. Someone with clout admires your attitude and insights. Become the Rock of Gibraltar when others stum­ble in confusion. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Shun business associates who like to play games. Show that you are also an expen in office politics. Romance could put you on a collision course with a close pal. Better be friends instead of lovers! 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): After sitting down and talking with your panner, pursue shared goals with gusto. Deeper rappon will fol­low. Show enthusiasm for a new project. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-·0ct. 22): Your career or business enters a new phase. Choosing a school is a pri­vate decision. Stand up for your rights, but avoid being obnoxious. Your mate or partner may be unpre­dictable now. Tread lightly. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Dazzling others with your charm is fine. However, back up those pretty words with solid facts and figures. Confidential talks pack real power. Meet in an out-of-the-way place to clinch a deal. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Privileged infonnation comes your way. Keep the tenns of a finan­cial transaction under your hat. Steer ctear of people who gossip or start arguments. A family dream can come true if everyone pulls together. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Test the water before taking a financial plunge. Stick to facts not fantasy. Certain "infonnation" could amount to little more than idle spec­ulation. You can spice up your love life by pampering your romantic partner. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your faith in someone is justified. Stand up for your principles. Co­workers welcome your input. With­hold nothing. Go all-out to impress those who count. Romance bursts into full bloom. Show your senti­mental side. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Job prospects for recent college graduates improve. A referral by a professor proves especially helpful. Take a common sense approach to any relationship problems. Talk things out in a calm, rational man­ner. Tension slowly subsides. 
' 
• 
... 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
t Rodeo women 5 1983 movie with Mr. T to Pen 
compartment t4Et-­t5 Legendary king 
of Norway t& Spiced stew t7 Court worker 
beholds beginning 20Too proud 2t Trivial amount of money 22 The one here 23 Secondary ecole 24 File a claim against 
DO 1\\el 1\-\11 ' W't. <:N-11 R£1\D 11\t. 1'£R'SCAA':; 1:.'1. \'R't:'S'SI0~ 
FRCM 
21 "The Simpsons" bus driver 28 Bits of evidence 32 Rag doll 33 Left ventricle adjunct 35 "Damn Yankees" vamp 
38 European nation troubles late Defense Secretary 
40 Posterior 
4t Applesauce 
brand 42 Bachelor home 43 Actium loser 48 Peachy-keen 47 19th of 26 48 Loamy soil so Sympathy 
evoker 
\HI\N. TWo INGlES A:l'lr..'l ?.1 
52 Daughter of King Minos 55 Whips sa Poet steals meat 80 "Picnic" writer It Slanted 82 Romanian city 83 King Hussein's queen MPops u The 13th, usually 
DOWN 
t Knife wound 
2 Utah resort near Snowbird 
3 Stratego gamepiece 
4 1989-90 Indian P.M. 
campaign song &Satiate 7Cool dude 1 New York's -­
Fisher Hall 
I Halve to Keeps secret t t In addition t2 Property 
encumbrance t3 Sen. Trent-­tl Buckeye 
German-Polish border river 

• 'OF INTEREST 
Auditions for "Later Life" will be held Thursday night from 7·10 p.m. in the· Cavanaugh Hall basement. 
•··· N:9 preparation is necessary. 
LaFortune Student Art Show: Art work to be dis­
played at the aiUlual show will be accepted through 
November 10. For more information call631-7308. 
•MEitu 
Notre Dame North South d!;jCorn Dogs . Spinach Quiche · · Spicy Grilled Ch1cken BBQ Chicken Potatoes Au Gratin Mixed Vegetables 
.. Saint Mary's iili' · Calzone 
. . . ·•'
•L<L:Beef and Szechuan Noodles iJfv Summer Squash 

23 Beauty aids 24 Alexander, 
diminutively 25 Detach 27 Urban transport 21 Pilot snake 30 Inventor Howe 3t White--, 
N.M. 
34 Pot starter 37 Devotee 31Central 
planners 
31 Late 52 Like, with "to" bloomers 13Civi1War 
Celebrate a friend's 
44Dozesoff general Jesse 41 Busybodies 54 Othello's ensign 411ntl. grp. from 
IIComposer 
birthday with
Bart6k IIFluidity 
1954-77 
It When Romeo sees Juliet on 17 2-Down sights the balcony 11Josh 
a special 
Get answers to any three clues 
Observer ad.
by touch-tone llhone: 1-900-420­5656 (75C eacn minute). 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D  Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ City-------------State _____ Zip______ 
SPORTS 
page 24 Thursday, November 9, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Irish look forward to Big East challenge New conference, tougher competition has Notre Dame players excited for season 
By TIM SHERMAN  It is quite fitting that Notre  best in the Irish.  
Associate Sports Editor  Dame takes its first conference  "Being a top Catholic school,  
step for the media, as the Big  I would have to say schools like  
New York, NY  East was founded around the  Villanova, Georgetown, Boston  
The ballroom of the Grand  mega-media markets of the  College,  and  Providence.  
Hyatt in New York yesterday  Northeast.  However, with  Games like that will be positive  
very easily could have mistak­ nearly 40 national telecasts of  experiences."  
en as a pre-season meeting of  conference games, the scope of  Another positive experience  
potential NBA lottery picks.  the exposure is growing.  for Notre Dame should be in­ 
With faces like Villanova's  Irish coach John MacLeod  creased access to the highly  
Kerry Kittles, Connecticut's  would love to capitalize on the  fertile New York City recruiting  
Ray Allen, and Georgetown's Othella Harrington in the  coverage. "Playing on television is a  grounds. ''I'll make a pact," St. john's  
crowd, one could not help thinking about what future glo­ries lie ahead for many of the  great help," MacLeod noted. "The key is to get a national TV and play well at the same  coach Brian Mahoney offered. ''I'll stay out of South Bend if he stays away from New York."  
athletes present.  time."  "That's not something I want  
But that was not the intent of  Exposure is  not the only  to do," MacLeod replied.  
Big East media day.  However,  benefit MacLeod is looking at  While recruiting is likely to  
welcoming the three newest  though.  improve, the Irish can't wait  
additions to the conference  "Conference games bring out  long.  The conference season  
was a focus.  the  best  in  everybody,"  opens in less than a month at  
"First off, I'd like to welcome  MacLeod said.  "There are go­ Rutgers on October 2.  They  
Rutgers, West Virginia, and  ing to be hard-fought games  know it may be the start of a  
Notre Dame to the Big East,"  because everybody is battling  tough season.  
conference commissioner Mike  for a position and there are go­ "We may not be as high in  
Tranghese said in his opening remarks. "It's a great pleasure  ing to be rivalries." Guard Keith Kurowski, who  talent as some teams, so we have to compensate with hard  
to have them with us.  I guess  is in perfect health according  work," Kurowski said.  "We  The Observer/Rob Finch  
this is one of the first official acts."  to MacLeod, already has an idea of who will bring out the  see B-BALL I page 21  Guard Keith Kurowski is hoping to fully recover from last season's injury to help lead the Irish in their inaugural season in the Big East.  




i .. 
The Observer/David Murphy 
The Flanner defense will have to step up their play once again on Sunday if they hope to stop red hot Fisher for the interhall title. 
Fisher, Flanner meet for IH title 
TIM MCCONN 
Spans W rirer 
Larry Csonka and the No­Name Defense. Walter Payton and the Monsters of the Mid­way. Do these names ring a bell? They should. They are game breaking running backs and dominating defenses that played together on champi­onship football teams. If there is one cliche that makes foot­ball fans want to throw up, it's this: "A good running game and a tough defense win championships." 
But, you know what? It's the truth. Sunday's championship game, whether it will be played in the Stadium or not, exempli­fies this statement. Both Flan­ner and Fisher have proven that, over the long and arduous journey we call interhall foot­ball, one must be able to run the ball and then must be able to stop the other team's of­fense. 
Flanner's offense begins and ends in the trenches. Led by Joe Lang, the Cocks' offensive line is huge. Even though it may not be much of a surprise that they are going to run, this crew still opens holes as if they were parting the Red Sea. 
Running backs Dave Lichota, 
J.P. Fenningham, and Steve Hrovat have styles that com­plement each other very well, and allow the Cocks a great deal of versatility in their run­ning attack. Plus, quarterback Scott Lupo has the ability to run the option, and keep the opposing defenses honest. 
"The running game is key", said sophomore Taylor Mc­Donald. "We have to push the ball up the middle and control the clock." 
On the other hand, Fisher ain't too shabby themselves. Their option game has been second to none during the end of the regular season and through the playoffs thus far. 

The main man to watch in this outfit is tailback Dayne Nelson, whom many consider to be the top runner this year. Fullback Dave Walsh gets the tough yards up the middle and pro­vides solid blocking to spring Nelson and quarterback Al­fredo Rodriguez. 
These teams may have been able to run the ball against their other opponents. Neither defense features one or two star performers, but both are teams in the true sense of the word. Collectively, they get after the quarterback, and swarm the ball carrier with seemingly-wreckless abandon. 
As a result of their stubbor­ness, both the Cock and the Green Wave defensive units 
frustrate opposing offenses, forcing them into punting sit­uations repeatedly and creating clutch turnovers. 
An additional aspect to con­sider in this game is the emo­tion factor. Expectations are out the window now. Flanner, a preseason favorite, was sup­posed to be here. They won despite the pressure placed on them and are so close to ac­complishing their goal that they can taste it. 
Fisher, however, is on a high right now. Never were they predicted to get here. At one point in the season, they were ranked second to last in the Power Poll. Despite that, they have come together, are in the finals, and are also on the verge of attaining a dream that seemed so unreachable just a few weeks ago. 
"Emotion is going to carry us", said Walsh. "We're ori a five game winning streak right now and don't want it to end up short." 
Because Sunday's contest seems so evenly matched, the winner of this year's interhall championship will be deter­mined by will, whoever wants it more. 
Whoever can play the better smashmouth offense, and who­ever can terrorize quarter­backs, running backs, etc. on defense, will ultimately be hailed as the 1995 Notre Dame Interhall Champions. Get ready. because, although this could be a low-scoring affair, it should be a good one. 
Football Hockey 
• Jackson may see time for Irish 
vs. Air Force, November 18, 
vs. Illinois-Chicago, November 10, 
aJ 
see page 22
8:30 p.m. EST 
7:00p.m.
SPORTS 
Cross Country
Volleyball 
District Meet, November 11 ••'= •Irish open with Germans tonight
at Providence, November 11, 7 p.m. 
~ . 
at a 
at Boston College, November 12 
riJ 
see page 21
SMC Sports 
Swimminag at Calvin College, 
Men's Basketball 
•Belles express disappointment 
November 11, 1:00 p.m. 
vs. German National Team 
~ 
November 9, 7:30p.m. see page 20
GLANCE 

