

Thursday, September 21, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 24 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Geyer: Journalists 'chained' to desks 
By KAREN BELL 
News Writer 
"If you have a terrible war with 2000 people trying to get out and 12 trying to get in, the 12 will be the foreign corre­spondents." 
Georgie Anne Geyer, an au­thor and syndicated columnist, delivered the annual Red Smith L.ecture i.n Journalism last evening in the llesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. 
Entitled, "Who Killed the Foreign Correspondent?", Geyer spoke of how journalists, often seen as a dying breed, are becoming chained by the infor­mation superhighway at the expense of adventure and con­text. 
When they do "parachute" into the outside world, they simply capture a mere glimpse of the reality they can put together in just a few hours. 
A native of Chicago and the first female foreign correspon­dent for "The Chicago Daily News," Geyer has earned a place in the Chicago Journalism Hall of Fame as well as hon­orary degrees from some 20 institutions, including North­western University and Saint Mary's College. 
Traditionally, the foreign cor­respondent was seen as a blend of Humphrey Bogart and Pope John Paul II, a loyal comrade with an added streak of insani­ty that kept him in the job. 
lie would be sent by a paper to live three to six years, or even a lifetime, in one area. 
Seen as a in glamorous pro­fession, he was safe alongside the Hed Cross and clergy: the neutral status was seen as a step forward in civilized behav­ior, according to Geyer. 
The change came, not with Vietnam, but with Cambodia and the uprising of guerilla warfare and militia. 
The perils of the job have reached life threatening pro­portions today. 
In fact, 1994 was the bloodi­est year in the profession with 115 deaths: being deliberately targeted, they are more often slaughtered in the most primi­tive of ways with axe and knife. 
Meanwhile, at home, due to financial pressures, papers were being closed or merged as the computers took over, si­phoning information from the superhighway. 
Epitomizing the change, Geyer saw the CNN coverage of the Gulf war as rather like a story without images. 3000 journalists sent out stories, but had no knowledge of the area, culture or language; in essence, they had no context and their stories were flat. 
Now that the center of com­munism has broken down, the 
U.S. has lost its leadership role. The breakdown of the tribes has made the world a more foreign place than ever. 
Geyer explained that the role of the correspondent is becom­ing more diplomatic, focusing on conveying government poli­cies and stance on political issues. 
According to Geyer, our col­lective ability to know the world has diminished since the 1970s; she asserted that "to know the future is to know what has happened before." 
In addition to highlighting the importance of history, she stressed the need to know who we are, what we believe and why, before we can understand someone else who is different. 
see GEYER/ page 4 


Symposium, blessing to celebrate buisiness building's official beginning 
By JOHN NORTON News Writer 
Today and tomorrow, Notre Dame will officially unveil one of the finest, most technologi­cally advanced business school building in the world. 
On Friday, the new College of Business Administration complex will be officially dedi­cated. 
"We expect this new facility to attract even more world renowned faculty and help the business school, both graduate and undergraduate programs, rise in national rankings," said Professor James O'Rourke, di­rector of Notre Dame Center for Business Communication. 
The dedication will be high­lighted by a symposium on the changing state of information technology and communica­tions entitled "The Information Revolution: Global Change and the New Social Order." The symposium will feature presentations from three lead­ing figures in communications, business and government. 
Anne Wells Branscomb, a communications and computer lawyer from Harvard Univer­sity, Franklin Sonn, the South African ambassador to the United States, and Kenichi Ohmae, an internationally renowned business consultant from Japan and head of the Yokohama management group, will be the featured speakers during the two-day event. 
The program begins today at 

1:30 p.m. in the building's Jor­dan Auditorium with Branscomb. She is Harvard's expert on information and law and has written a book, "Who Owns Information?", detailing 
see COBA/ page 4 

Senate evolves, adjusts to ensure 'accountability' 

By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor 
While having a stronger voice in academic affairs and governance of the University may have been the necessity that mothered the invention of the Faculty Senate, its roles and responsibilities have become more clearly defined in recent years. 
The Faculty Senate "was set up originally to have faculty input in academic ideas in the University," according to Father Theodore Hesburgh, Notre Dame president emeritus. 
The Senate was established to give faculty more input in the governance of the University, according to Associate Professor of finance Paul Conway, a founding father of the Senate. 
The Senate was meant to serve as a substitute for the American Association for University Professors (AAUP). The administration preferred the Senate to this union-like organi­zation, which was not sanctioned bv 
Editor's note: The following is the first of a two part series examining the relevance and conflict of the Faculty Senate. Today, The Observer looks at the Senate's creation and the role its members think it plays. 

t e a ministration, accor ing to Conway, a 28-year veteran of the Senate. 
"I was the last survivor" of the orig­inal Senate, he said. Conway served five terms as the Senate's chair at five different times: 1977, '78, '91, '92 and '93. 
When it was created in 1967, "there was no vehicle for calling a meeting," Conway said. "And we elected pro tempore officers." 
This past year, Conway was notre­elected to the Senate, however, dur­ing each of his years as chair, "the role of governance and the possibility of unionizing was an issue," Conway said. Two other important issues dealt with by the Senate during Conway's years of involvement included the University's policies of sexual harassment and gender in­clusive language. 
The work of the Senate since its creation has included the discussion of health benefits and the rules for promotion and tenure, the establish­ment of a budget priorities committee and the establishment of the Provost Advisory Committee (PAC), which now has ten elected faculty members. 
According to current Chair of the Faculty Senate Father Richard McBrien, Conway played a key role in "securing important benefits for the faculty." 
While the need for the Faculty Senate may have remained the same over the past quarter century, many of its goals have become more clearly defined. 
The Senate's "primary purpose" is "accountability," according to McBrien, who has been the Senate's chair since September of 1993 and who is currently in his third term. 
Accountability, he said at the Senate's first meeting this year, in­cludes the preservation of "the acad­emic integrity and future of the University," while honoring its "claim to Catholicity." 
At the meeting, McBrien asked the Senate for its most "constructive and effective participation in the life and goverance of Notre Dame." 
The Senate is not just a tenure and advisory group, McBrien said recent­ly. "One common criticism from the faculty's point of view is that the Faculty Senate is just a debating soci­
see SENATE/page 4 
Thursday, September 21, 1995

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• Siasl INSIDE COLUMN An open letter to Notre Dame men Dear Esteemed Male Amy Schmidttudents of the Notre Assistant News Editor Dame Community, I am writing to you in an effort to address a very serious and timely ssue. Frankly, I am quite alarmed about the whole thing, and I am equally d!st~bed . bout the obvious miscommurucation that 1s o rampant between the males and females on this campus. Due to lack of space (and the fact that there ~no othet way to broach' the subject), I will put it simply. WOMEN DO NOT LIKE FACIAL HAIR. Contrary to popular male belief, it is not sexy, macho, rugged, chic, or manly to ~ow an annoying trail of hair that casts an evil shadow along the chin. I will admit that there are some men who ook good with a goatee, but I hav~ yet to see a guy on this campus who could giVe Brad Pitt a run for his money. I have racked my brain for a reason to explain or rationalize why men think they look better unshaven. Perhaps it is because they think it is a supreme declaration of their manhood. "Look at me. I have facial hair. That means I have an inordinate amount of testosterone coursing through my veins. I am a man." Or maybe it is a subconscious desire to be like the Brawny paper towel man. "If 1 have facial hair, I can chop down trees in the forest. I will be a man's man. Girls will think I am cool." I am also sure that some guys think it is becoming to have that "just-rolled-out-of­bed-and didn't-have-time~to-shave" look. And what'is· With that "hmm-I'm-pondering­something-very-important-and-must-ruJ;!·my­chin-between-my-thumb-and-forermger look? I have never seen a man sans-goatee making a similar gesture.  • WORLD AT A GLANCE Bill gives taxpayer increased strength against IRS WASHINGTON Taxpayer "Bill of Rights" A "taxpayer bill of rights" movin~ thro!lgh Congr~ss would give Americans new weapons m the1r battles With the Internal Revenue Service, but the agency everyone loves to hate would remain a mighty Goliath to the tax­payer's David. Accountants, analysts an~ oth~r expe~ts on tax enforcement praised the b1partlsan b1ll Wednesday as a step in the right direction in ensuring Highlights from the Taxpayer Bill of Rights,individual taxpayers don't get overwhelmed by the IRS's approved by the Ways115,000-person bureaucracy. But, they said, it won't and Means Committee:alter one hard fact: The onus is still on taxpayers. In the J Raises the limit on civileyes ofthe IRS, they still would have to prove that their suits against the IRS from tax returns are correct. The bill, written by the House Ways and Means oversight subcommittee under Rep. Nancy Johnson, R-Conn., is tucked i~to a much larger attorney fees when IRStax measure approved Tuesday by the full commi!tee. In · .l!C!ions are unjustified.turn, it will be folded into massive tax-and spend!;"-g-c~t J Waives interesr charged legislation going to the House floor next month. It will taxpayers when a delayhave a big impact," Johnson said. "There ar~ a whol~ in resolving a dispute · is the IRS's fault.series of flxes to prevent the taxpayer from taking the hit J Reimburses taxpayers up for bureaucratic failures and rigid glitches in the law." to $3,000 for expenses in complying with randomAmong its 40 provisions are these: comprehensive audits. • Raising the current $100,000 ceiling on civil suits J Makes the IRS, not theagainst the IRS for reckless collection actions to $1 mil­taxpayer, responsible for lion. verifying information on Information returns such• Making the IRS, not the taxpayer, responsible for ver­ifying information returns such as W-2 and 1099 forms submitted by employers, mortgage lenders and interest and dividend payers. Clinton hacks GOP Medicaid Plan The Baguette: a dying bread? DENVER PARISPresident Clinton asserted The crusty baguette, that hallowed symbol of theWednesday that a Republican plan to French way of life, is fast becoming an enda~ger~dcut Medicaid could "throw families species ­at least according to a government media bhtz into abject insecurity" and drain mid­that urges people to break more bread. In the countrydle-class households of savings needed where bread shortages sparked riots culminating in the to send children to college. He painted French Revolution, consumption of the long, goldenthe bleak picture at a Roman Catholic loaves has plummeted. Unless t~e. slide is reverse~. thenursing home as he brought his CB;m­state-sponsored National Assoc1atwn of Fr~nch. M1llerspaign warmup to the West, a r~gwn . . warns in its billboard and TV ads, the da1ly ntual ofwhere he remains unpopular: Fme-tunmg his mes~a~e grabbing a hot loaf from the local bak~ry co~ld be~om.~and fattening his bankroll, Clmton focused on Med1ca1d folklore. "Bread is part of our natwnal1dentlty.. -the nation's health-care program for the poor ­and Agriculture Minister Philipp~ Vasseur said. "Someday, ~ education in escalating attacks on Republican proposals. there isn't any left, we won t know who we really are.He has been concentrating on several issues a day in a The apocalyptic billboard campaign shows a lonely soft­week-long, coast-to-coast swing that combi?es $1,00~-a­boiled egg with a straw in it ­implying that this will beplate fund-raising dinners with Repubhcan-bashmg the only way to scoop up the runny yolk once baguettesspeeches. He was expec!e.d to r~ise $;> millio~ at dinners disappear. The caption, "If you don't eat bread, ?ne day here and in four other c1tles. Clinton 1s assertmg that the there won't be any more," hammers home the pomt .. ~heproposed Medicaid cuts, together with GOP proposals for TV ads spotlight a small boy at a kitchen table, smiling $270 billion in Medicare savings over seven. years: would happily at that same soft-boiled e~g, but ~is face dropsresult in a back-door tax increase for m1ddle-mcome when presented with the straw. H1s face hghts up whenAmericans with ailing parents or grandparents. slices of fresh baguette arrive.  
Whatever the reason for this trend, it has to stop! I have witnessed the defecting of one too many a male friend-not only here, but at other schools, too ­into the land of the five o'clock shadow. At this point, you may be wondering why I have such an aversion to goatees, mustaches, beards, and the like. This intense dislike is deeply rooted in a horrible childhood memo­ry. Each Christmas, I would feel sheer terror as I balanced on my tiptoes to kiss my uncle on the cheek. Come to think of it, it felt more like a paintbrush than a cheek. Needless to say, facial hair will always remind me of my Kenny Rogers look-alike uncle whose face felt more like sandpaper than a face. As I close this letter, I have a bit of advice for all the men out there who are now con­templating growing a goatee or comparable  Man smuggles cash in condoms Forbes enters Republican Race NEW YORK WASHINGTONCarlos Trujillo had little room for airline food when he Publishing magnate Malcolm ~orbes J~. s11:idtried to board a flight to Colombia. His stomach was al­Wednesday he will enter the Repubhca~ preslde.ntlalready full of $100 bills-189 of them, tightly packed in­race, using his personal fortune to campa1gn for h1gherside condoms. "We see this quite frequently with cocaine economic growth and lower taxes. Forbes, a soft-spo~enand heroin ... but this is not the method normally used by multimillionaire, enters a field already crowde~ w1th money smugglers," said Tom Smith, Customs ag~nt in nine politicians and better-known faces. He sees h1s lac.kcharge at Kennedy Airport. Investigators are trymg to of political experience as a plus in the current anti­find the source of the money and determine if it came Washington political climate. He will begin. trave~ing nextfrom drug trafficking. After Trujillo admitted he had week to key primary and caucus states mcludmg Newswallowed 27 condoms, all agents had to do was wait. Hampshire, Iowa, Arizona, Florida and New York.. ForbesWith a little time -36 hours ­and the help of a laxa­said he will espouse "pro-growth, pro-opportumty, get­tive, Trujillo produced the $18,900, Smith ~aid. America-moving themes." He said he would try to pro­Combined with $60,100 found in a knapsack on a M1ckey vide a hopeful antidote to the "glum vi~~ of the .rest ofMouse doll and $10,495 Trujillo had in his pockets, the crop" in the GOP race; $20-25 mllhon of h1s own agents recovered a total of $89,495, Smith said money will go toward the campaign if n~~ded. ForbesWednesday. The 30-year-old native of Colombia suffered advisers say he will be free of the fund-ra1smg demands no ill effects from the ordeal. that may cause other candidates to drop out early.  
facial eyesore. DON'T DO IT! It is the most cruel form of visual pollution imaginable. Instead, think about this: Shaving is sexy. Why else would so many women drool over those Gillette commercials? Be free! Let those chins, cheeks, and upper lips show. You'll thank me for it. Sincerely, A Concerned Student The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  . • NATIONAl. WEATHER The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 21. 70s  

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Corrine Doran Heather Cocks Sports Thomas Schlidt Graphics Zoe Marin  Viewpoint Brandon Williams Production David Diaz Heather Dominique Lab Tech Michael Hungeling  

70s 
80s 
90
s 100s 90s 80s 
............... ...&.&. ........... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1995 Accu-Wealher, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ ,.-/\
H L ffi ISS1 cnJ 0 ~§ ¥ L..J.~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pl CLOUDY CLOUDY VI.!IAssociBitJdPrau 
-The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Sunny Pt. C/oucty Cloudy 
o 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Atlanta  81  69  Dallas  61  53  Milwaukee  54  44  
Baltimore. 78  63  D.ayton  58  53  New Orleans 79  70  
Boston  72  59  Denver  58  25  New York  76  63  
Calgary  46  27  Honolulu  90  75  Philadelphia 80  66  
Chicago  52  45  Las Vegas89  64  San Diego  73  64  


Thursday, September 21, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Law school legal aid 
Exchange called successful 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 11An Insatiably Romantic And 

clinic receives grant 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Law School's Legal Aid Clinic has received a $52,900 grant to establish a mediation clinic to serve low-income residents of St. Joseph County. 
The new service will be pro­vided at no charge and initial­ly will focus on the mediation of small-claims disputes and family law cases involving vis­itation and custody. 
Franklin Morse, a certified mediator who formerly prac­ticed with the South Bend law firm of Barnes & Thornburg, will coordinate the mediation clinic in conjunction with the Legal Aid Clinic. · 
Morse will be assisted by Bruce Wells, a third-year Notre Dame Law School stu­dent and a certified member. 
The grant to establish the mediation service was provid­ed by the Jessie Ball duPont Religious, Charitable and Educational Fund, a national foundation based in Jacks'onville, Fla. 
The Notre Dame Legal Aid Clinic was established in 1966 to provide free legal assis­tance to area residents and to otTer clinical legal training to Notre Dame Law School stu­dents. 

Exuberantly Witty Film:' 
iii~U l~'"' '0\ ,-NC..ttf!o. MA::Oiltol1'1l 

julie Jelpy Can the greatest romance of your life 
last only one night? 


~ 

\ 
·, 
!
' 
' 
THE 

By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame students have been granted the opportunity to bring friends and family into Notre Dame Stadium, without having to worry about the dou­ble tears of ticket confiscation and ejection from the game. A recent cooperative effort of the Campus Life Council, Student Government, and the Ticket Office has enabled students to exchange their student ticket booklets for general admission tickets to home games. 
The motivating factor behind the implementation of this pro­gram is to accommodate stu­dents wishing to bring family and friends to Notre Dame foot­ball games, all the while pre­serving the integrity of the stu­dent section, according to Student Government. 
"The policy has been drafted to give us a legal means to bring our friends and family into games," said Mark Mitchell of Student Government. "It's the first time we've been given this option." 
Although this policy will run on a trial basis from game to game, both Student Govern­ment and the Ticket Office are hopeful that this privilege will become an annual option. At the Vanderbilt game, the first one at which the new rule was in effect, no rampant scalping was observed-a primary con­cern of Ticket Office that has blocked the creation of such a policy in the past. Perry Beart, of the Ticket Office, relayed to the Student Government Office his optimism about the pro­gram after the Vanderbilt exchange turned out to be a success. They hope to see the program through to next year, using this as a trial season. 
The ticket exchange for this weekend's Texas game was sold out by yesterday after­noon, according to the Ticket Office. 
The ticket exchange program has been a year in the making, with the officers of the Campus 
r--------------------------------------------, 
(;XQ)-WJ[][TI ~~ 
HOUFIS: Monday • Ttwt.dliy 7 -D 10 pm • ,rlday 7 am 1D 1 pm • Salwday 9 am Ia 7 pm • s..ncs.y II am to 5 pm 
21 Tans 
For $2 
NOTRE DAME 277-1166 
...............a..,.,_
.........................,...,...,... 
...

L------------------~----------­
Ticket Exchange Regulations 
•Before 
receiving a general admission ticket, student must present his or her own personal ticket booklet signed in ink In the designated area and a corresponding 

Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student ID. 

•After 
the ticket office confirms the signature and identification of the student, the student ticket for that week's game will be removed and the student will be presented with a general admission ticket for the same seat. 

•Upon 
receipt of the GA, the student will be charged the difference between the face values of the tickets (an additional $15). 

•Each 
student is limited to 2 exchanges per season. 

•The 
ticket office reserves the right to set a ticket exchange quantity for each game. If so, the office will inform Student Government at least two weeks prior to the game in question. 

•The 
ticket office reserves the right to regulate entry into the student section to preserve the nature of the student section. To that end, anyone with an exchanged ticket must enter with a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student. 

•If 
a student is caught in the resale of either 


a student ticket booklet or the replacement ticket, the penalty will remain the same as in the past. 
The Ticket Office reserves the right to make any changes to these policies. 
21 
& 
All 
R 
I 
B 
s 
Correction 
Yesterday's article on Monday's Hall Presidents' Council Meeting incorrectly identified the time of the Sorin Hall talent show. The show will take place 30 min­utes after the pep rally, Friday. 
CI~JJnJIIA'I'I~ A I~IUI~NJ)'S 
IUll'I'H))AY WI'I'H A 
SI•J~(~IAJ. OIISIUlVI~ll 
AI). 

Life Council and Student Gov­ernment working closely with the officials of the Ticket Office on a policy that would keep scalping at a minimum. William Kirk, assistant vice­president of student affairs and a member of the Campus Life Council, began looking for the perfect system, in which trad­ing of student tickets for gen­eral admission tickets would be both legal and beneficial. 
Miranda Sanford, executive coordinator for Public Rela­tions, collaborated with the ticket office to devise a viable program. With the help of Bill Scholl, director of Ticketing and Marketing, a final draft was agreed upon in the sum­mer. 
"It's a very gracious ar­rangement on the part of the ticket office and we're glad they've made this possible for the students," said Mitchell. "We hope the students don't abuse this privilege so that it can continue in the future." 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~ 
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 21, 1995 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
ety." 
This stereotype has influ­enced faculty members who might have considered joining the Senate, which McBrien ~said, "hasn't attracted a suffi­cient number of the strongest 
· members of the faculty." McBrien provided two rea­sons why faculty members might not become involved in the Senate: "They are too busy because generally the most pro­ductive members of the faculty are the most busy" and, due to the stereotype, many members of the faculty may feel it is "a waste of time." In an effort to illustrate "issues on the horizon" that he said were significant in the Senate's establishing its voice a1 Notre Dame, McBrien listed significant accomplishments that have occurred in the Senate during his terms as chair: 
•The 
method of appointment for the Vice-President in the Provost's Office. No longer is the decision of a new Vice­President "sprung upon the committee, McBrien said. 

•The 
policy that a majority of elected faculty must be on the Faculty Board on Athletics. 

•The 
establishment of the Notre Dame Forum on Academic Life. "Being Catholic is of no value if we're not an 


academic institution," McBrien said. Four public sessions of the Notre Dame Forum on Academic Life were presented last year., including topics such as the development of Notre Dame as a university, the role of science at Notre Dame, the relationship of teaching and re­search at Notre Dame, and the role of theology at Notre Dame. 
•The opportunity for open discussion provided by the Faculty Senate on topics that otherwise wouldn't be dis­cussed. Among these, was the topic of homosexuality at Notre Dame and last year's decision by the administration not to recognize Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). Another one of these discussion at one of last year's Senate meetings, according to McBrien, involved the firing of Father Oliver Williams, which, McBrien said, "was a serious discussion not for reasons of sensationalism." 
Agreeing with his successor, former Chair of the Faculty Senate Rich Sheehan, said that the number one task of the Senate is accountability. Sheehan, a professor of fi­nance, who served two consec­utive terms as Senate chair in the years prior to McBrien's first term, drew a parallel be­tween the Faculty Senate and the Student Senate, saying that both have "a goal, desire and intent to constituent bodies." 
"The academic constituency is the University," Sheehan 
The Ayatollah seemed "to 
float into the room like an apparition." continued from page 1 For one hour he looked at neither her nor her friend, but 
Her views on the matter stared between them. cbme frot11 Geyer's experience in interviewing world leaders. Said Geyer, "Waves of evil 
emanated from this man...like 
While meeting with Ayatollah sea waves. I had never felt Khomeni in 1978, she found such evil before." herself sitting on a persian rug, face covered. 
Geyer 

N.D. vs. Ohio State Bus Trip 
Date: 30 September 1995 Tickets: $20 for ND, SMC, HC students 
at the LaFortune Info. Desk 
(NO GAME TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE) 
Details: Leave Stepan Center @ 7am, Depart for ND 45 inin. after the game 
No Tickets? No Problem! The ND Alumni Association Will have 3 Big Screen TV's In the Parking Lot! 

explained. "The Faculty Senate is not just one more special in­terest group." 
In considering whether or not the Senate is a 'debating soci­ety,' Sheehan said that that la­bel is dependent upon two questions: "Who is in the Senate?" and "Is the adminis­tration willing to listen to the Senate?" 
In response to the first of his questions, Sheehan said that "generally" the Senate includes faculty members who are well­respected across campus. 
The second question he posed "should be best addressed" to members of the administration. According to Sheehan, the role of the Senate includes the ques­tion of advise and consent. 
Using this responsibility as an opportunity, McBrien said he hoped "a large number of respected faculty" at Notre Dame perceive the Faculty Senate as "a body which really maintains a high level of inter­est in the academic life of the University. 
"My hope now is to get more of the respected established faculty to run for the Senate and contribute to its work," McBrien said. ''I've had some success with this." 
Having the Senate's journal, which is similar to a reading of the minutes, published in the Notre Dame Report has helped influence respected faculty to · join the Senate, McBrien said. "They're realizing that we were involved in serious business." 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
Come Visit Scenic Columbus, Ohio 
COBA 
continued from page 1 

the struggle between public access and privacy in today's world. In her speech, Branscomb will be primarily discussing how human behav­ior runs ahead of technology and law. Accompanying her presentation will be demon­strations with graphics on the Internet. 
Sonn, a close friend of Nelson Mandala's and one of the earli­est and most vocal opponents of Apartheid, will follow Branscomb at 3 pm. He will be discussing his hopes and ambi­tions for South Africa as it joins the ranks of G-7 nations already connected by the Internet. 
Almost 90 percent of the peo­ple in his country will not have access to the information and technology we take for granted; Sonn therefore plans to outline the impact on those who are not connected and the role of the private sector in helping to combat this problem. 
The symposium will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. with an ad­dress by Ohmae, a recent can­didate for Governor of Tokyo who spent 23 years at the head of MacKenzie & Company, one of the world's top business firms. 
Additionaly, he has penned two books. One, "The Evolving Global Economy," shares the same title and subject matter as his speech for the sympo­sium; he will focus on the fact that the world used to be a sim­ple place in terms of business, economics and communica­tions, and how everything has now changed. 
His other book, "Managing in a Borderless World,'' discusses how national governments will become irrelevant in the future, as they will serve only locally while the economy becomes global. 
Currently, information and technology can be transferred around the world to all parts of the globe in the blink of an eye. 
Dedication activities will con­tinue at 2 p.m. tomorrow with an academic convocation in Jordan Auditorium. 
Robert Allen, chairman and chief executive officer of AT&T, the world's largest communica­tions company, will be the keynote speaker giving a speech entitled "Digital Society: The Ethical Implications of the Information Age." 
University President Father Edward Malloy will formally bless the new business college complex at 3:15 p.m., followed by a Mass of Thanksgiving at 
4:30 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Allen, along with Branscomb, Sonn and Ohmae, will be given "honoris causae," honorary doctors of law degrees. 
The $25 million dollar com­plex was built with the dona­tions of four alumni and one former trustee, John "Jay" Jor­dan, Terrence McGlinn, Vin­cent Naimoli, Raymond Siegfried and family, and Don­ald Kelly. 
"Each of us in the college of business is enormously grateful to the donor families because generations of Notre Dame men and women will benefit di­rectly from their generosity," said O'Rourke. 
The Notre Dame Brass En­semble will be performing at the dedication and students are welcome to attend. 

Notre Dames Favorite Italian 
Restaurantfor the past 10 
years! 
Banquet Rooms Available 
1111 u.....,.,.Y w .... 
Hours 

M••·Tba 4·10 Ma.llawalul 
FriA Sat 4-11 ••• C!l.-.1 tFranceaco wo.s chef at ND for 30 yearal) 
The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 

-----------------------------------------------------------~---~--------,--------------------~ 
Thursday, September 21, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Religious faith linked to work perfor01ance 
BY PEGGY LENCZEWSKI fessional life and spiritual life Saint Mary's News Editor can be fused together so that the person is whole." 
Does religious faith have an In order to develop the pro­Influence on work perfor­gram, McElroy and Rube sur­mance? The relationship be­veyed Saint Mary's alumnae tween the two was the center of who have been working since discussion last evening as the 1970 to find out relevant infor­Business Department and mation concerning work per­Center for Spirituality hosted formance and faith. the lecture "Grace in the Work­The findings will be used to place." plan future events and lectures 
The 1995 Fall Lecture Series that will appeal to students. theme is Women, Faith, and Ruhe said that there are pro­Business. jected programs geared to­
This year, for the first time, wards nursing students, educa­the lecture series is geared in a tion students and writers so specific direction. The program that "they can see the relevance is a joint effort between the of spirituality in the work­Business Department and place." Center for Spirituality in "an Crowley's lecture was aptly Opportunity Knocks effort to develop programs in entitled "Grace in the Work­
Notre Dame graduate students make a connection in the business world as they listen to Delco
women's spirituality in the place." 
Electronics representative Thomas Ramsd at yesterday's Industry fair. 

workplace college-wide," said Professor of Business and Economics Jerome McElroy. 
"We're trying to provide a program that links professional development with spiritual de­velopment," McElroy added. 
"On campus, there is a great opportunity for spiritual devel­opment, from classes to the presence of nuns to the Rome program," said John Ruhe, as­sociate professor of business and economics. 
"What we're trying to do is to develop programs so that our students can see the relevance of spirituality in the work envi­ronment. At Catholic schools we take spirituality for granted." 
According to McElroy, "this link [between the workplace and spiritual growth] is tricky. 
It's a matter of conviction. We're trying to show how pro-
According to Crowley, she has the gift of easily accepting her faith in God. "I don't know how to help those who question their faith, but I'm very comfortable with it. 
"I have gone through periods during which my faith was test­ed, but these were growth peri­ods for my faith." 
In order to live her faith in the workplace, Crowley says that it is important to remain consistent, and that through repetition, grace is elevated. 
She also states that "by han­dling loss gracefully, by unfail­ingly complimenting my com­petitors, I have had far more opportunities than I have had losses." 
Crowley stresses the impor­tance of what she calls "soak time," a 24 hour period during which she will not respond to a heated situation. After this pe­riod, she can "think about my response, and come back with a powerful response." 
By consistently following a program of prayer, faith and service, Crowley hopes that people can be influenced by her grace on a daily basis. 
Her reward for living her life in a workplace comfortable with grace is "and internal peacefulness, a wholeness. 
"Money is not a real reward, because there have been times that my paycheck hasn't re­flected what I've done. Personal recognition isn't the reward, because I haven't been recog­nized the way I felt I should have been all the time." 
States Crowley simply, "The reward of grace is peace." 
Grad school night answers questions 
Get Involved ... 
...with CLASS OF '96 Sponsored Service Projects: 
CD LIFE TREATMENT CENTER Help se.rve a meal and spend time with indigent adults recovering from addiction to alcohol and other drugs. When?: Sundays 3:45-5:45p.m. Beginning September 24 @ HARRISON SCHOOL Tutoring Program for spanish,speaking students of a local public school. When?: Sundays 9:00-10:00 a.m. Thursday 9:15-10:30 a.m. Beginning September 25 @ MEMORIAL HOSPITAL Provide care and spend time with outpatients of the Children's Ward of a local hospital. (Only open to Juniors and Seniors) @ FALL BREAK EXPERIENCE WITH POTOWATOMI INDIANS Provide housing renovation for local Native Americans during Fall Break. When?: October 16-19. Trip will conclude with a Pow Wow celebration with the Pokagon Band of Potowatomi Indians, including dancers, drummers, singers and traditional food. 
Interested? Have Questions? 
Call the CLASS OF '96 Office or Pete 634..2306 


By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Marx's News Editor 
One single questions plagues the minds of most juniors and seniors: what to do after graduation. 
The Saint Mary's Academic Affairs Office and the Counsel­ing and Career Development Center co-sponsored the Graduate and Professional School Night yesterday, hop­ing to answer upperclass­men's post-graduation con­cerns. 
Throughout the panel discussion, faculty advisors spoke with students about testing, applying, and paying for graduate or professional school. Faculty members also shared their personal experi­ences in the debate over whether to enter graduate school straight after college or to venture into the "real world" for a few years. 
"Your decision needs to be made not about when to go to grad school, but why you're going," said Mary Connolly, mathematics and computer science faculty adviser. 
"Your life is your grad work, so you have to make sure you love the subject. It's very intense." 
Besides being heavily concentrated, advanced schooling can be costly. "I know of one student who will leave graduate school $160,000 in debt," said Unda Rakow, assistant director of financial aid. However, Rakow stated those costs can be reduced by applying for grants and scholarships early. 
Because of the intensity and cost of the programs, advisors stress researching schools completely. 
"When you're looking into a school's professional or graduate studies program, you really need to talk to stu­dents currently enrolled in the school's program," said pre­Jaw adviser Susan Vance. Students said they benefited from information on what ac­tions they need to take in preparation for the future. 
The Counseling and Career Development Center offers re­sources for students looking into graduate school, accord­ing to Assistant Director Nancy Mascotte. 
"We have lists of faculty advisors and handouts to answer general questions, and we can direct students to faculty advisers for more spe­cific concerns," she said. 

The Investment Banking Division 
of 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Invites the students of the University of Notre Dame to an information session on careers in investment banking. 
All undergraduates are welcome to attend. 
Thursday, September 21 6:30-8:30 p.m. Main Lounge, lJniversity Club 
~ 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 21, 1995 
New dinosaur fossils found in Argentina 
By MALCOLM RITIER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

An amateur fossil hunter has discovered what may be the biggest meat-eating dinosaur known, a fearsome beast that looked like the longtime record-holder Tyrannosaurus rex. 
The creature was 41 to 43 feet long and weighed 6 to 8 tons when it roamed the grasslands of what is now Ar­gentina, scientists estimate. 
It lived about 100 million years ago, or about 30 million years before T. rex appeared, said paleontologist Rodolfo Coria of the Carmen Funes Museum in Neuquen, Argentina. 
A bone-by-bone comparison with remains of the largest known specimen ofT. rex suggests that the newfound creature was slightly longer and maybe three tons heav­ier, said Coria,· who reported the fossil find with an Argentine colleague in Thursday's issue of the jour­nal Nature. 
"This is a monstrous ani­mal," said University of Chicago paleontologist Paul Sereno, who has examined the newfound fossils. "It's probably a bit bigger than T. rex." 
Scientists are uncertain how big T. rex got. Estimates range from about 40 feet to 50 feet. 
The initial fossil find was made by a local auto mechan-
Giganotosaurus carolinii 
ic who hunts dinosaur bones as a hobby. In honor of the discoverer, Ruben Carolini, the huge dinosaur has been named Giganotosaurus car­olinii. 
Scientists have recovered about 70 percent of the skele­ton, including parts of the 5­foot-long skull, most of the vertebrae, both thigh bones and curved, serrated teeth about 8 inches long. Without a complete skeleton scientists can only estimate the crea­ture's size. 
The creature ran on its hind legs and probably had rather small arms, Coria said in a telephone interview. Just what it ate in its environment, which resembled the African savanna, is a mystery, he said. 
Despite the overall similari­ty in appearance to T. rex, Giganotosaurus was not closely related to it, and the two beasts arose indepen­dently, Coria said. 
T. rex lived in North America, and there was no land bridge from South America that could have let Giganotosaurus or its descen­dants move north to become ancestors of T. rex, Sereno said. · 
Jack Horner, curator of paleontology at the Musem of the Rockies in Bozeman, Mont., said comparing the sizes of Giganotosaurus and 
T. rex is tricky because dinosaurs grew continuously until they died, rather than stopping at some adult length. 
Gigan-: giant (Latin) in reference to its enormous size •·• · ·notos-: austral (Greek) means coming from 
-saurus.theprlhl~ee)llisphere 
carolinii: in honor of Ruben D. Carolini, who discovered the specimen 
Loc:ality: Discovered in Neuquen province of western :;' Argentina in the Rio Limay Formation 
Destription: 
~·~ 41 l/)43feet lon~ :. ~ ·Six to eigbt toos X ··· ~ lived 100 million 
Quake hits California from coast to Nevada 
Associated Press 
RIDGECREST, Calif. 

A powerful earthquake, cen­tered beneath this Southern California desert town, rocked an area from the Pacific Ocean to Nevada on Wednesday. There were no immediate re­ports of injury or damage. 
"The earth bucked. That's what it felt like," said Scott Farwell, managing editor of the Ridgecrest Daily Independent. "It shook for a good long while, maybe as long as 30 to 40 sec­onds." 
He said he was at a bowling alley when the quake hit at 
4:27 p.m., "and all the pins fell down." 
The magnitude-5.5 quake was centered 10 miles north of Ridgecrest, said Jay Aller, a spokesman for California Insti­tute of Technology in Pasadena. A magnitude-5.4 earthquake centered in the same area hit on Aug. 17. 
Wednesday's quake was felt in Los Angeles, Riverside, San Bernardino and Orange coun­ties, and as far away as Las Ve­gas. Ridgecrest, population 28,000, is about 100 miles north of Los Angeles. 
Polo Ralph Lauren 
Factory Store 


BACK-TO-CAMPUS SAVINGS. 
The Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store welcomes you back to Notre Dame University with a special offer: 
20% Off on your entire purchase, now through October 8th. 
Present this ad and show your current student I.D., you'll save an additional 20% on everything. 

Michigan City 101 Lighthous~ Place 601 Wabash St., (219) 874~9442 
Take I~B0/90 west to Westville exit, go north on Hwy. 421 for 5 to 6 miles to 8th St., turn left and go 2 blocks. 
Fremont Horizon Outlet Center 6245 North Old 27, (219) 833~6255 
Take 1~80/90 east to exit #144, follow the signs to SR 120, corner of SR 120 and SR 127 
Thursday, September 21, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Republicans put off student aid vote Speed law 
By SALLY BUZBEE Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A key Senate Hepublican's plan to cut federal spending on student aid crumbled Wednes­day after fellow Republicans balked at a proposed new fee on colleges. 
"What we're faced with is a lot of bad choices," said Sen. Mike DeWine, R-Ohio. "We're trying to see if there's any other options we might look at." 
Democrats also oppose the plan by Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, H-Kan., calling it a new tax on middle-class families struggling to put their kids through col­lege. 
But the more surprising op­position came from Republicans -illustrating the struggle the Senate faces as it works to find enough cuts to balance the bud­get under a seven-year plan. 
Kassebaum, who chairs the Senate Labor and Human Re­sources Committee, said she does not like the idea of cutting $10 billion from student aid. But she must under the budget plan negotiated by House and Senate Republicans, Kasse­baum noted. 
·The plan she announced Tuesday would make the $10 billion in cuts by charging uni­versities a 2 percent fee on the volume of their student loans. 
It also would reduce by two months the current six-month, no-payback grace period for students. And it would make student loans less lucrative for banks and guaranty agencies, and more costly for some par­ents. 
But it was the fee on colleges that forced Kassebaum to post­pone a planned Wednesday vote on the proposal. 
"That. frankly, gives me a lot 
• NEWS ANAlYStS 
Federal government cuts impact University financial aid program 
By BETSY BOWMAN 
N~Writcr 
Attending one of the nation's finest universities, and conse· quently one of the most expen­sive, Notre Dame students are certainly not unfamiliar with financial concerns. 
Completing applications for scholarships, work·study pro· grams an~ loans from various institutions based all over the country, students are faced with an annual battle to find funding. 
For years the federal gov· ernment has served as one of these lenders, but consistent with House Republican etl'orts to downsize government and balance the budget, Fedet(!.l student loans might soon come with a higher price tag. 
In a White House press re­lease issued last week, Prest. dent Clinton decried the RepubJican budget proposal which could raise costs for fed· eral loans at Note Dame as much as 3.7 million dollars over the next seven years. 
"These proposals are a direct attack on our nation's students and our nation's future." said the President. "If Congress approves these changes, the dream of a col· 
of concern," De Wine said. Northeastern University in Boston, for example, whose stu­dents carry $82 million a year in federally guaranteed loans, lege education will become a financial nightmare for many young people and their par": ents." 
University officials· expressed predictably similar views. "Obviously we'd like to sE>e the loan program maintained in its current form, .. said Admissions Director Kevin Rooney. "So many of our students depend on federal money. We would not want to put an additional burden ori them.'' 
The House proposal wouhi eliminate the six month post; graduation grace period for all borrowers, increase •the origi"..· nation fee by one percent,· eliminate in·school intere$t subsidies for graduate stu~ dents. taking Staffor<l le>ans, and cancel the reduction il1 interest rates scheduled for 199lt Nationwide, over five 1llillion undergraduates and 725,000 graduate and profe~­sioq.aJ students· would have...~o pay an additional tO billion dollars over the next seven years. ·•A.)t' 
Currently more than ~.700 students at Notre Dame take advantage of federal loans to help with education costs. If the bill is passed, a traditional student borrowing $17,125 in subsidized loans over four 
would have to pay $1.6 million, said Sen. Edward Kennedy, 0­Mass. 
Universities would pass the fee on to students, said Edward years would see costs increase over $1,400. Similarly, gradu­ate students borrowing $34,000 would have to pay an additional $9,400, 
Republican leaders reason that in order to balance the budget (which will benefit all Americans in the long run), difficult cuts will have to be made. Senator Phil Gramm explained that the budget de­hate "is not about how money is going to be spent [on our children. on education, on housing. etc.] but about who is going to do the spending." He said that families will be asked to take more of the nation's financial burden, but "since we are ·investing in the future of America. [be wants] to invest this future in ·our fami­lies, not in the government." 
Rooney reacted to this reasolling by saying that when the government invests in Notre Dame through the loan program, they are in fact mak· ing an investment in our . nation's future. He noted Notre Dame's outstanding his­tory or paying back 98 percent of its loans, and concluded that the "Federal Government makes an investment in people when it invests in Notre Dame." 
Kealy, director of the Commit­tee for Education Funding, which lobbies Congress on be­half of colleges. 
repealed by House 
By RANDOLPH SCHMID Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The House voted Wednesday to drop the national speed limit and let the states decide how fast people should drive. 
The vote to eliminate the federal limit of 55 mph on most roads, and 65 on rural interstates, came during debate on a bill designating the 159,000-mile National Highway System. 
An amendment by Rep. Nick Joe Rahall, D-W.Va., to main­tain the current limit was turned down 313-112. The House also defeated Rahall's effort to set a maximum limit of 65 mph on all roads. 
Rahall contended that elimi­nating the national speed limit "would turn our nation's high­ways into killing fields." 
It should be obvious that the death toll will rise once the states begin increasing the speed limits under the provi­sions of the bill .... This is not a matter of states rights, it's a matter of human rights," said Rahall. 
Rep. Thomas Petri, R-Wis .. responded that speed limits appropriate for one state may be too slow for another. and that motorists will ignore lim­its that are too slow. States are best suited to determine the limit for their own roads, he said. 
"There are just some things that must be imposed on peo­ple and a speed limit is one of them," said Rep. James L. Oberstar, D-Minn. 

Finance Club 
Carew Night 

Sophomores -Juniors -Seniors ,. ' 
' ... ;:";.\ ·. 

Atrium 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 21, 1995 
Egyptian mass graves found 
Associated Press 
CAIRO, Egypt 

Reporters unearthed two mass graves believed to contain the remains of Egyptian POWs and civilians killed by Israeli troops in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, Egypt's leading newspaper said Wednesday. 
The official Al-Ahram said two guides -a former officer and a Bedouin -led its r{)porters. ~o. sites near the city of al-Arish in Sinai, where they had seen Israeli troops gun down captured soldiers and civilians. 
At the two sites, the team found bones and remnants of uniforms, the newspaper said. A doctor was quoted as saying the bones were human. 
Defense Ministry officials had no immediate comment on the report. The government has taken a low-key approach to reports of Israeli killings of Egyptian prisoners of war, call­ing for an investigation but lim­iting its criticism of Israel. 
The scrutiny of possible mas­sacres was intensified after an Israeli officer admitted to ordering the execution of 49 POWs in the 1956 Middle East war. Some Israeli historians have since estimated more than 1 ,000 Egyptian prisoners were killed in the 1956 and 1967 wars. 
AT&T plans to break into three companies 
By EVAN RAMSTAD 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

AT&T Corp. is splitting into three companies in a stunning move that could help it get back into local phone service, the business it was forced to give up in the 1984 breakup of Ma Bell. 
The telecommunications giant is also junking its person­al-computer manufacturing business, acknowledging that its 1991 merger with NCR Corp. was a disaster. 
"AT&T is reinventing itself once again," chairman Robert Allen said Wednesday. · 
AT&T will break into compa­nies that will focus on commu­nications services, communica­tions equipment manufactur­ing, and manufacturing of large 
Maximizing Academic Performance in Graduate School 
A Workshop using the insights ofSports Psychology to help You achieve Your Best Performance 
This Workshop will focus on techniques for: 
• 
Enhancing and maintaining concentration 

• 
How to manage numerous demands on your time 

• 
Handling performance anxiety when writing papers, making presentations and taking comprehensive finals 

• 
Dealing with academic setbacks 

• 
Improving confidence in your study strategy 

• 
Improving your ability to pace yourself in your academ­ic studies 

• 
Focus your energy quicker and more productively 


Presentation by: Dr. Dominic Vachon, Ph.D. 
Date:  Sunday, September 24, 1995  
Time:  4:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m.  
Place:  Fischer O'Hara/Grace Community Center  
Sponsored by.  

The University Counseling Center • Campus Ministry • Fischer O'Hara/Grace University VIllage • Graduate Student Union 
While governmen has restrained, Egypt's has Israel sharply. Opposition papers Israeli Ambassador David took part executions, charge denies. also that Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin be barred from visiting Egypt and that with Israel be cut. 
Abdel-S Moussa, an force during
1967 war, tookl________................."""'--=-A.._P"""tw-=-m.._.....J.....c_a£.-s-te_l.......lo 
a team of 
reporters from Al-Ahram to· an 
old military air base about 
three miles from al-Arish. 
The team dug for six hours and found skeletons heaped to­
gether, the newspaper said. 
Moussa, now 55, said he was taken prisoner after a battle on June 6. On the same day, he 
said, he saw "a line of prison-
computers. Shareholders will get a stake in each new com­pany. 
The move -which by some measures is bigger even than the 1984 breakup of AT&T­stunned Wall Street, which has seen one colossal merger after another in the telecommunica­tions and entertainment indus­tries. 
Founded as Bell Telephone in 1877 by Alexander Graham Bell, AT&T has built itself into a giant whose stock is the most widely owned in the nation and is said to be a part of every widow's portfolio. 
In 1984, facing a government antitrust suit, AT&T agreed to split into seven regional Baby Bell phone companies in a set­tlement that spawned the era of global telephone competi­tion. 
ers, among them civilians and 
soldiers, gunned down all at 
once" by the Israelis. 
The newspaper did not ex­plain why Moussa's life was 
spared.
Suleiman Maghnam Salamah, a bedouin, led the team to another site, 16 miles from al­Arish, where he said more than 
p


When: 

Where: The Huddle in LaFortune Time: 6:30pm to 7:30pm 


Pree 6aaefs andj(avored c#ee wi(( 6e served. Student 1tctivities wi(( be B_ivintJ away a week­endfor two to Chicaeo. 1-lote(accomodations, tickets to tfie Monet exhibit, and tickets to ''joseyfi andtfie 'Amazina'T'ec fin ic 0 (or 1Jreamcoat11 wi(( be inc(uded. 
-... 


)1 \ ~~ 
ft' ~ 
~ ~·~ 


Company given right to hire, fire teachers 
By ALYSSA GABBAY 
Associated Press 
WILKINSBURG, Pa. 
Diane Silinski studied for four years to learn how to teach children. Now she's dealing with a particularly hard lesson: She and 15 other teachers have lost their jobs. 
"It's very frustrating,'' said Ms. Silinski, who taught kinder­garten at Turner Elementary School. "I felt that my kids were just doing so excep­tionally." 
Citing dismal test scores, the Wilkinsburg school board signed a private company to run Turner and gave it, for the first time anywhere in the na­tion, the power to hire and fire 
FLOWERS Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 
Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
~7 DAYS~ 
Plush Animals and Gifts 

,asy ?atGh. 
Clocktower square ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered
51400 us 31 Nonh south Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277-1291 or 1·800·328-0206 
Thursday, Sept. 21st 
teachers. Classes began Sept. 5 for Turner's 400 students with a new, non-union faculty and principal. 
"No one ever came to us and said, 'There's a big problem going on here,"' said Lisa LeDonne, another of the former Turner teachers. 
The hiring of Alternative Pub­lic Schools Inc. has split this gang-plagued suburb of Pitts­burgh, pitting friends and even relatives against each other and angering parents who think their children are becom­ing guinea pigs. 
The school board in the city of about 24,000 hopes the Nashville, Tenn., company will improve students' performance and hold the line on costs. 

-----~----~------~--------=----------. 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 21, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
john Lucas 

Managing Editor Busine,. Manager 
Elizabeth Rcg2n Joseph Riley 
blewa Editor _,_ ... , .... -................. David-Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potrer Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager .................. Jacqudine Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries. lc:nc:rs and Inside Columns present the: views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com· muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E~ail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Argument with evolution disgrace to Notre Dame 
You know, we all like to have a good laugh at Notre Dame's expense. Citadel of Catholic Learning and all that -very funny. But now I see here that Philip Johnson, a law professor from the University of California at Berkeley, was invited to give a lecture entitled "Darwinism on Trial" in DeBartolo on Monday. A joke's a joke, but this is going too far. That a university suppos­edly among the nation's elite, or for that matter any institution of learning, should invite someone to pontificate in this way is a disgrace. Repeat: it is a disgrace. 
ots. I enjoy watching them on TV often, especially the really truculent ones, who take no guff off the science establish­ment. Erich von Daniken, the author of Chariots of the Gods?, who claimed that pagan deities were in actuality space aliens, is also a favorite of mine. But I wouldn't invite him to speak at my uni­versity. 
Johnson spoke of the "scientific debate on Darwinism." There is no such debate. Charles Darwin solved the mys­tery of species diversity over a hundred years ago to the satisfaction of every 
thinking person of his 
I shouldn't 
time. Every step for­have to be writ-ward in biology, geolo­ing this, but the gy, and zoology since imprimatur of then, including the all­Notre Dame is important discovery of
Josh 

all over this DNA, has confirmed it. thing. It was Evolution is literally
Ozersky

sponsored by written in our mole-the GSU's r cules. "Darwinism on Intellectual Life Trial?" "You be the Committee (!). judge"? What planet 
the Law School, the Center for the Philosophy of Heligion, and the Maritain Center. It was soberly reported in The Observer, in a front-page article by Assistant News Editor Jamie Heisler, who covered Johnson's speech, under the headline, "Johnson: Evolution misleading." 
Now get this straight. A law professor has no more business debating biology than he does flying the Space Shuttle. Historians aren't qualified to debate Chemical Engineering, and Theologians aren't qualified to debate Astrophysics. The idea that they are went out with Galileo. As far as debating Darwinism -not specific details of the Darwinian theory, but evolution itself-good luck finding a respectable natural scientist anywhere in the world to even try. There are a few born-again cranks with Ph. Ds from fundamentalist "universi­ties" who portray themselves as lonely mavericks, keeping the spirit of inquiry alive, but their claims are completely spurious, believable only by other big-
am I living on? Is this some parallel universe, like in Planet of the Apes? 
Wake me up! Wake me up! 
I hate to be the bearer of musty humanist truths like this, but somebody has to. I know we have a tradition around here of law professors pontifi­cating on social issues, but at least our prelate makes explicit the extent to which he is toeing the party line. This Johnson, as far as I can tell, is little more than another Archbishop Usher, a Victorian clergyman who calculated the exact date of creation as a Monday morQing on 4004 B.C. Or for that mat­ter another William Jennings Bryan, the populist demagogue who supposedly said, "I care more for the Rock of Ages than I do for the ages ofrocks!" 
Bryan was at least honest. To invite someone as disingenuous as Johnson to speak does enormous discredit to us. What was the GSU thinking? What was the Law School thinking? And how could the Maritain center, which is. 
named for one of the great religious thinkers of twentieth century, help to support the spread of such closed-mind­ed, half-rational, ill-informed, and dis­honest crap? My mind is boggling! 
You have to stay on top of this sort of thing. The Observer just last year ran an ad for a lecture by holocaust revi­sionists -maniacs who go around say­ing that the holocaust didn't happen, that the whole thing is a media hoax put over by Jews. This is 
fundamentalists really want to have it both ways. Boy, do they piss me ofT. 
I don't know if I would be as mad about it, either, if it didn't seem so depressingly like part of a general trend. The black community in this country seem overwhelmingly to believe that 
O.J. Simpson is innocent, and have since long before Mark Fuhrman was denud­ed as a racist. The fact that the moun­tain of evidence against O.J., including 
his jail-cell confes­

still a sufficiently sion to Rosie Grier touchy issue to attract (inadmissible on the 
some fire, and The 'Jknow we have a tradi­basis of clerical con­Observer apologized tion around here of law fidence), his previ­on the front page. But ous psychotic beat­
professors pontificating on 
it could just as easily ings of his wife, her have been missed. I social issues, but at least recorded voice beg­imagine that at SMU ging the police to
our prelate makes explicit 
or CCNY it might have protect her from his even drawn a crowd. the extent to which he is wrath, his friend 
And the same whiny Ron Shipp's under­
toeing the party line.'
letters would have oath statement that 
appeared. "Are you in favor of censor­ship?" one might ask. "If you are so confident you are right, why do you shut down our right to dissent? Isn't that the basis of the American system of free speech? I put it to you, Dean Wormer, isn't it an indictment of our 'whole American system? How can you claim .. . " and blah blah blah, all of it spurious, and all of it utterly sincere. This very column, you can be sure, will generate a few such letters. One religious nut, whose name I can't place at the moment, writes letters to The Observer like this every week. What I find partic­ularly ironic is that the same people complain about a "postmodernism" which allows individuals to determine right and wrong, and then persist in pushing for the right to believe whatever they want about the physical world. You'd think that judgments about the spirit world would be given a little slack, at least compared to judgments about rocks and turtles and amino acids, all substances considerably more resistant to casuistry than morals. But no! These 
O.J. dreamed of 

murdering his wife, the blood of both victims and O.J. all mixed together (glove or no glove), and the ridiculous claims made by the defense all have no effect. And you see the same thing with the right-wing con­spiracy nuts who believe the Federal Government is plotting to take their Spaghetti-Os away. These people are as fanatic as suicide bombers, and yet they keep demanding a "fair hearing" for their ludicrous; harmful, insane ideas. 
Well, let them have it. That's why they invented the internet, and that's why they invented public access TV. But this "you be the judge" stuff is as bar­baric as you can get. If this kind of thing is what Notre Dame stands for, or even condones, there's no point in it pretending to be a university at all. We might as well all live in the forest and worship tree stumps. It looks like some of us are halfway there already. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. He can be reached via e-mail at: joshua. a. ozersky.l@nd. edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"}love fools' experiments. I am always making them." 
-Charles Robert Darwin 
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, September 21, 1995 page 10 
• LETTERS· TO THE EDITOR 
Thanks to friends at the Dome 
Dear Editor: 
Father Joe Ross recently sent me a copy of The Obsever with the article about my son, Brian. I wanted to follow up and thank the entire Notre Dame commu­nity for its prayers and support in the time since Brian's death. 
I know how busy college stu­dents' lives ca~ be and how far removed the idea of death can be. Despite that, Brian's friends at the Dome reached out to us with such love and caring that it truly helped us with the healing process. The letters about special times with Brian and special things he had done to help others are little treasures we will prize forever. 
Please know that these kind­nesses are appreciated by, and helpful to, the family. Times like this help us see what is important in life. I am heart­ened to know that you, the stu­dents, are true to the ideals of Our Lady's university. This is no easy accomplishment in today's cynical times. 
Several friends and neighbors mentioned to me how impressed they were with Notre Dame after seeing the caring shown by the Notre Dame fami­ly. including the students and priests (Father Peter Rocca and Father Jim Burtchaell) who came to join in the wake and the funeral Mass. Of course, those of us lucky enough to be part of this wonderful commu­nity know this caring and love is real and is there when we need it. Well. Brian's family needed it, and NO came through with flying colors. God bless you all. 
BILL HEDERMAN 
NO Class of 1970 
Annandale, Va. 

No need for conflict between religion and science 
Dear Editor: 
The recent exchanges of letters in the Observer on evolution convey some use­ful observations. I would also suggest that they embody several misapprehen­sions that should be commented upon il}asmuch .as the impression is being conveyed that positions articulated by Mr. Pieder Beeli, for example, represent the proper response of a Catholic uni­versity to certain scientific issues. 
I have found it difficult to clarify from these discussions exactly the points at issue, but the strong impression given by Mr. Beeli is that the more appropriate response would be along the lines of what has come to be termed "Creation Science.' 
I would propose that this is quite incorrect and has no support within the Catholic tradition. One of the misfor­tunes of the nineteenth-century debate created in the English-speaking world by Darwin's Origin was the posing of evolution by natural selection as an alternative to creationist accounts. This formulation of the question had specific reference to the tradition of British natural theology as it had developed since the seventeenth century, and in fact was much more indebted to Stoic rather than Christian conceptions. 
The task for Darwin then became a rather simple one. Phenomena previous­ly explained by miracle, such as the design of living organisms or the origin of species, could now be explained by natural causes. The result has been the fruitless debate we have witnessed over whose explanation is best supported by the empirical evidence, and in this sci­entific empiricism has won the major battles for good reason. 
I would suggest that this interpreta­tion of the issues involves a deep misunderstanding of the concept of Creation within the main tradition and inevitably serves to obscure the central issue, which has to do with the existence of the world, and not with its empirical 
order. 
Mr. Beeli's suggestions should also be weighed against what has actually been said within the Catholic tradition in the past century about evolution. In docu­ments such as Humani generis, or the more recent comments of the Vatican symposium on evolution ( H. Spaemann, 
R. Low, and P. Koslowski [eds.]. 
Evolutionismus Und Christentum 
[Weinheim: Acta Humaniora, 1986]-a translation of Cardinal Ratzinger's pref­ace is available from me by e-mail at phillip.r.sloan.1@nd.edu) there can be found no support whatever for the "creation-science" positions adopted by Mr. Beeli and the Henry Morris-Duane Gish creationists. 
I would also recommend to those interested a car.eful reading of the important discussions of the science­religion relationships contained in John Paul II's letter, "A Dynamic Relationship of Theology and Science," Origins 18 (17 Nov. 1988), 375-78 (a copy is also obtainable from me), and the proceed­ings of the Notre Dame conference on evolution and creation (E. McMullin (ed.) Evolution and Creation (Notre Dame, 1985). 
In the two recent Vatican documents, both Ratzinger and John Paul II are careful to grant to the sciences the sole competence to explore and decide on matters relating to natural phenomena, and both are emphatic in rejecting ef­forts to resurrect old science-religion conflicts of the nineteenth-century vari­ety. 
The principal concern in both is with the slide from science into materialis natural philosophies and dogmatic pro­nouncements delivered in the name of science, as we can easily find ex­emplified by the writings of Jacques Monod, Richard Dawkins, Francis Crick, and most recently the philosopher Daniel Dennett. 
A more substantive set of issues has been introduced by the contributions of my friend and colleague Alvin Plantinga. In his letter of September 12, he has correctly identified the long standing is­sue that confronted Darwinian evolution from its first formulations, wherein Darwin attempted to employ a strong argument from analogy between the processes taking place in the develop­ment of domestic animals and plants (chapter one, Origin of Species) and the action of "natural" selection in the wild state. 
Although this line of appeal has disap­peared from modern evolutionary accounts in favor of the close empirical study of microselection in natural wild populations, the issue has not deeply altered in substance since the nine­teenth century debates. 
All of Darwin's great scientific oppo­nents-Richard Owen, George St. Jackson Mivart. C.C. Babington. H. Fleeming-Jenkin, William Hopkins­raised issues about the seeming non-sequitur involved in reasoning from the limited kind of differences obtainable in domestic organisms to the unlimited transformism claimed in the wild state, but in the end many also came to ac­cept Darwin's theory, even if grudgingly (See D.L. Hull, "Planck's Principle," Science 202 (1 Nov. 1978): 717 -203.) The issue concerns the reasons why. 
It is presumed in these discussions that there is no set of good reasons that could be supplied. A long line of opposi­tion has attempted to treat the matter as a case before the bar: what is the evi­dence that can stand up to rigorous cross-examination by lawyers concerned with rules of evidence? 
I suggest that these are the wrong kinds of questions to be asking of this kind of historical scientific theory, and fairly would have to apply to historical geology, cosmology, or to any theory that seeks to explain present conditions by appeal to processes in the historical past. 
The force of Darwin's argument has been primarily a "consilience" argu­ment: it draws together under a few simple principles lines of inquiry into embryology, classification, comparative anatomy, biogeography, paleontology and comparative physiology that previ­ously were disconnected researches in the scientific tradition. • 
It also suggested numerous fertile lines of further research that have proven to be productive over a century of inquiry into biology. It was this power that convinced many of his original opponents in the historic debates (see 
D.L. Hull, Darwin and His Critics for an excellent compendium of these argu­ments). 
Many of the lines of criticism and questioning expressed in the Beeli and Plantinga letters could also be leveled against another example that was deeply important for Darwin's early thinking on these matters-historical philology. I suspect if the same ob­jections are posed in terms of this example, the debate would be seen in different light. 
Comparative philology in the form Darwin knew it made claims about the historical genesis of contemporary lan­guages from common root languages (Indo-European). Few today would ques­tion the claim that modern romance languages are all specifically different yet have come from a common source in Latin. 
Yet, as in the evolution debate, the same kinds of arguments can be employed in favor of this claim (common grammars, similar terms), and the same kinds of objections about "missing evi­dence," "unwarranted extrapolations," "false analogies" could also be raised about this claim. After all we cannot dis­play all the transitional stages; records are spotty; major gaps occur that must be filled in by conjecture; human popu­lations and dialects show complex pat­terns and variation according to circum­stances. The list can go on and on. 
Sceptical epistemic questions can always be raised about any kiiid of his­torical knowledge. Darwin's contem­porary Charles Lyell (Principles of Geology, vol. 1, 1830) used a form of historical scepticism, similar to Hume's, to argue that one is only warranted to reason from causes and processes occurring at the present to similar events occuring at the same rate in the past, leading him to conclude that there was no warrant for assuming that mammals and birds had not been pre­sent from the earliest stages of the earth and had simply been lost through con­tingencies of fossilization. 
I doubt that either Mr. Beeli or Professor Plantinga would wish to defend this Lyellian thesis. But if they do not, then there is some role entailed in relying on evidence that may be frag­mentary and incomplete in constructing a larger coherent picture of the past. 
Most important in this discussion is the need to get the issues clear. Is the understanding of the concept of "cre­ation" being debated itself inadequate? Can we disentangle matters of ideology and world-view from issues of scientific reasoning? Have important issues in the philosophy of science been ade­quately considered? What distinctions are to be made between "missing" evi­dence and "counter" evidence in these debates? 
Most of all I would hope that the discussions here can take place in recognition of the fact that we are in an intellectual environment and tradition which is not committed to some kind of fundamental conflict between the sci­ences and religion. 
PHILIP SLOAN Professor Program of Liberal Studies Program in History and Philosophy ofScience 


ACCENT
Thursday, September 2I, I995 
• CONCERT REVIEW 
EXPERIMENTATION 

Stanford Prison Experiment lights up Chicago's Fireside Bowl, September 14, 1995 
By ALEX AGUIRRE 
Accent Music Critic 
round a year ago, someone at the Fireside Bowl 
in Chieago deeided to start booking punk and 
'ndic shows to provide an outlet for the growing local scene. Because of the risks and lack of financial payoff, the bigger venues such as the Metro or the Lounge Ax hesitated from catering to this threatening scene. 
Fortunately, however, the Fireside Bowl stepped up and opened its doors with no other motivation but to provide an outlet for the local counter-culture. The industry, hungry for such a venue has taken full advantage, booking shows consistently for the past year. Located on West Fullerton, just off the 90-94 freeway, far from the wasteland of suburbia, the Fireside Bowl looks anything like a showcase for rising names in punk. Yes, it's still an operating bowling al­ley, and yes, you can bowl while the vibrations of the adjacent makeshift stage sometimes help your score. 
This novel venue has reluctantly gained national attention. I say reluctantly because interviews request­ed by several notable magazines (Spin, Sassy) have been politely declined. 
Not this time, though. 
The manager for the evening passed on to me that presently, although offered no financial guarantees, bands and labels come to them for bookings. The night I was there, the three bands split a measly $100. But the music industry continues to flock to their doorstep, sometimes uninvited, because at the Fireside they are guaranteed exposure to an all-ages crowd. On some nights, as many as three hundred fans crowd the alley, while on other nights, only twenty fans show up. Spllcifically, punk bands do best at the Fireside because all-age punk shows are a rarity in Chicago. 
Recently, Sweep the Leg Johnny, a band very famil­iar to Notre Dame, performed around 10 feet from lane 12 and received good reviews from the staff at the Fireside. At the Fireside you won't find the sweet sounds of buzz-clip bands. What you will find is a pure and blistering expression of the underground enhanced by the roar of balls and pins crashing and the familiar stench common to most bowling alleys. 
This evening, the stage and audience was mesmer­ized by the rage and fury of the Stanford Prison Experiment. Formed in 1990, SPE is finally gaining the recognition it deserves. Having toured with bands such as the Jesus Lizacd, Rage Against the Machine, Quicksand and 7 Year Bitch, SPE has been to Europe and back and is just now starting to reap the inevitable recognition. This band is going somewhere and fast. Touring behind its second release, The Gato Hunch, produced by Ted Nicely (Girls Against Boys, Fugazi, Jawbox), SPE appeals to the guitar hungry listener, who possesses an insurmountable contempt of American culture. 
Sitting with the band for an informal interview over d1nner, I" was quickly engrossed in a conversation about the mini-revolution in Chiapas, the perilous Judeo-Christian aspects of our culture and the pro-
again, and their newest effort takes them back to their roots with sur­prisingly mixed results. 
Night & Day is Chicago's valiant effort to pay tribute to the big band sounds of the first half of the 20th century. For the most part they have managed to stay away from the trademark, sappy love song crooning that made them runaway adult contemporary hitmakers in the mid-80's. 
The omnipresent horns are still there, but they have more "oomph" behind them with the big band sound. None of the lyrics are writ­ten by the group, so the listener is free to concentrate on the new arrangements of classics instead of wading through the typical need­your-love-or-I'll-die poetry. 
The disc starts off with Sinatra's "Chicago," which is surprisingly catchy and well-sung, featuring a snappy beat. Next up is the first of two Latin-flavored Gloria Estefan­esque tracks, "Caravan." The samba sounds do not translate badly with the full band behind them, but here is where the num­ber one problem with the disc sur­faces. There is too much electric guitar incorporated into some of the songs, and it really distracts from the early sound Chicago is try-found musical ingenuity of Guided By Voices. Singer Mario Jimenez revealed his surprising views about the recent quasi-punk explosion of the West. He felt that as long as some minds were changed and others made more free-thinking, it was all right for punk to be ac­cepted by the masses. 
Unlike most bands flourishing in the industry, SPE is a band with an eager to be heard message. When asked about his provocative lyrics, the singer re­sponded by conceding that although his lyrics appear abstract on paper, the message is tangible and real when combined with the music. Their set convinced me. Mike Starkey's innovative and distorted guitar combined with Davey Latter's numbing ferocity behind the drums provided a wall of rage for lyrics like "who's got the power when my foot is on your neck." Jimenez moved about the stage erratically, singing with an overwhelming and determined intensity. 
I couldn't help but notice the subtle smile of Latter as he unleashed every ounce of energy he had into the drums. Earlier I had asked why, at 31, he keeps tour­ing relentlessly. After much thought he replied (not verbatim), "There's nothing like being on stage for the 40 or so minutes we get for our set. The feeling I get when I look out to the crowd is incredible. When the crowd is singing your songs, that's the best." 
When asked whether SPE were afraid of crossing the line, Jimenez quickly responded, " I don't think about that. We take it song by song." Stanford Prison Experiment will tour Europe after a couple of more stops in the Northwest. The Gato Hunch, if not found at local record stores, can easily be ordered at the Bookstore. 
Alex Aguirre's music reviews appear every Thurday 
in Accent. 


Chicaeo 
Night and l)By
**1J 
out of five 

C
hicago. Ah, the very mention of the noble giant of the mid­west conjures up images of tender steak, the towering Sears, the Monsters of the Midway, Michael Jordan, Lakeshore Drive, and the hapless Cubs. 
Also on the list is an enduring jazz/pop act that takes its name from the Chicago Transit Authority. Yes, Chicago is back in the stores ing to recreate. 
Some other tracks worth noting are "Dream a Little Dream of Me," which is a duet with the members of the R&B diva group, Jade. This track features excellent piano fills, although the vocals are sometimes a bit shrill. 
"Moonlight Serenade" is a won­derfully laid-back number to get a person "in the mood" "Take the A Train" exhibits the typically grand Chicago brass sound, but it fades into a bizarre "Twilight Zone"-style space at the end which leaves an eerie feeling in the listener as the disc ends. "Blues in the Night" lives up to its name and features a smokin' solo by Aerosmith's Joe Perry. 
On the other hand, some of the typical studio gimmicks used by Chicago in the past are still evident on the album, which give it more of a cheesed-out feeling than they would want. Otherwise, the song selection is very good and the new arrangements can breathe life into songs that were ushered out by the rock·n-roll era, if only for a short time. 
Chicago is headlining the Ara Parseghian Benefit Concert this Saturday. -by Dominic Devito, Accent music critic 
page II 
CvBEMURf

··web.Pa9e· 
Crash Course 
B
eing a Cluster Consultant, I get all sorts of questions about anything and every~ thing. Recently, there has been an outbreak ofques· tions regarding generating one's own homepage. 
Why create a homepage? The reasons are numerous. Get your picture or your resume out on the Net. Impress your friends, 
By Aaron ViJlaruz

impress your teachers. So 
Accent Writ~r

here's crash course in get· ting it all started. · First of all, familiarize yourself with Netscape. Poke around the Notre Dame Homepage, especially the Personal Homepages section. Look for things you like on other people's pages. Most importantly, READ THE GUIDE! Thats' the f1rst step in becoming a Net Lurker. 
Everything that is going to sit on your homepage will bestored in your AFS space. What is AFS? Think of it as a huge storage space, like a floppy disc of epic pro· portions. Notre Dame has split this space up so every· body has their own little niche. Really. 
So we have this AFS space. Let's set this all up from a ~ac, shall we? (1 think it's the best beginner's comput· er.) Use the chooser to bring your AFS space to tl1e desktop. Select "Appleshare" from the top left window, "AFS translators" from the window below that, and "afpl" from the window to the right. Select "Kerberos" for your logon method, then when the dialogue box comes up, enter your APS lD {that funny set ofletters you used when you first set up your e-mail, usually yo1lr f1rst initial and the first 8 letters of your last name) and your password, press return, and wait for yet another dialogue box. Select your APS ID from the list that pops up, pres$ return, and voila, your AFS space appears on the desktop. 
Now that you have this space sitting on the desktop, open it up and create a new folder in it called "www." This folder will hold all the pictures and files and junk that you willreference from your homepage. The most important file that will sit in here will be a file called "index.htmJ." This file will be referenced every time someone requests to look at your page. Creating this index file is the pivotal part ofany good homepage. ·. Now for the tricky part. The "index.html" file has to be written h1 HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) so that the computer Wlderstands what you want it to do. whether that be displaying a huge picture of yourself or<writing your own autobiography. HTML consist.'l or regular text interspersed with commands and cues that the computer understands. All these commands and cues wlU be placed within these funny characters:<>, and everything outside of those characters will appear as text on the page. 
Through HTML,you can load all kinds offun stuff. To learn HTML, run through the primer in the guide to creating WEB pages, then view the source code on other people's pages. 
Here's a little known secret: you can generate a homepage entirely by cutting and copying source code from the pages of others. Just find one you like, copy the source coad (from the "View" menu) into your own index file, and change the name and the personal information. 
Once you get the hang of HTML. open up a word processor, Simple Text works tina, and code (or copy) away. Then save the file· in the "www'' directory on yourAFS space as, you guessed it, "index.html." 
We now have to set the access privileges for the "www'' directory, otherwise no one will be abJe to give it a look, We do this through a Telnet session. Open the application Telnet a.nd then open a. session from the File menu. Log on to a Server. any server will d<) (i.e., boron.b~lios.nd.edu), and provide your AFS ID and passwotd, It will pop you into a command prompt. 
llere's the tricky part: at the prompt enter. "fs setacl www system:anyuser rl." {NO Periods at the end. I just bad to finish my sentence.) Then "logout" or your ses· slon and we are just about ready to roll. 
To getyour name on the Personal Homepage Jist, fO to the linkthat says, "add your homepage to the list on the Personal Homepages Page They will ask you one more time for your AFS ID. If you did everything right. you're done. 
You now have a fully functional homepage Usted 
under your name in Notre Dame's Personal 
Homepages Section. 

Go ahead and modify your homepage to suit your 
personal taste. The best way to do this is to have 
Netscape and your text editor open at the same time. 
Thatway when you save your changes, all you have to 
do is reload the page in Netsca.pe to see what chaos 
you've caused.. 

;la:ron. Villaruz proudly consults in the DeBartolo computer cluster. He welcomes you to steal his code rom http://w:ww.nd.edu/-avillaru.l. 
• 

ACC6NT
page 12 Thursday, September 21, 1995 
• Son ScALE SoDA 

Big Audio Dynamite churns out a clunk 

,----­
1 
I 
• 
F
oilowing the huge success of their album Aurora Gory Alice , Letters to Cleo recently released wholesale meats and fish -a more heavily toned twelve song CD. 
Known best for their hit single "Here ~ Now" this Boston area quintet is led by singer Kay Hanley, who is backed by guitarists Greg McKenna and Michael
.. 
Eisenstein, bass player Scott Riebling and drummer Stacy Jones. They hastily released wholesale meats and fish in hopes of retaining the success they had already found. 

the innocence mission glow 
S
ince the Sundays are looking more and more like a non-entity, people have been waiting for the heirs apparent to their sound. Chiming, slight­ly discordant guitars, a fluid rhythm sec­tion, topped off by childlike, slightly tor­tured, but heartbreakingly sweet vocals: what English band would fill that void with any aplomb? 
The Cranberries have gotten too harsh-and were always too Irish. Mazzy Star is way too stoned, but gives it a nice go. Oddly enough, it's a band 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Editor 

Big Audio Dynamite 
F-Punk 
** 
out of five 
0 
ne of the most exciting and unexpected rumors for Lollapalooza '95 was that the headliners would be a reunion of the Clash. It was never disclosed· exactly why they did not end up getting back together. but we do know that it is not because of the music that Mick Jones' Big Audio Dynamite has been making recently. 
Megatop Phoenix, their 1989 release, is the only Big Audio Dynamite album that is decent from begin­ning to end, and not only that, it is fantastic. For some reason, on that album, the synthesizers, the gui­tars, the samplers, and the vocals come together per­fectly in a swoosh of gorgeous rhythm and imagery. 
The three Big Audio Dynamite albums that came before Megatop Phoenix were the development of Jones' dream and now, three albums after it, listeners are left with the remains of Jones' dream. 
F-Punk, Big Audio Dynamite's latest release picks up where last year's Higher Power left off: "Going down." Since 1989, "Rush" and (Big Audio Dynamite's new theme) "Looking for a Song" were the only two pieces that were up to the par of Megatop Phoenix. 
"I Turned out a Punk" turned out to be this album's only song with the emotion, groove, and chemistry of the Megatop work, their third for the decade. Its grinding, progressive rhythm, led by Jones' righteous guitar and steady, congruent vocals gives F-Punk the impression that this album is going to be different. 
The song does not fade gently as an excellent tech­no arrangement suddenly fuses with the previous straight-forward rock-n-roll to provide an ironic twist to the song's self-mocking title. 
A light jungle beat teases the song "It's a Jungle out There," a touching story about street life, but the attempt to place the hardcore beat (it sounds like James Brown's "Funky Drummer" at 45 rpm instead of 33) into a pop song structure is like trying to make diet coke by throwing lots of ice into regular coke. 
Jones reaches some vocal heights on "Gonna Try," showing some excitement as opposed to his usually serene self. The song's mood and rhythm remind one of "King of Comedy" by R.E.M. from their latest re­lease, Monster. 
In fact, "Gonna Try" is the most noticeable, but not the only place on F-Punk where Big Audio Dynamite emulates the Georgia gurus' latest. The whole album in general seems like an unconscious attempt to do with techno what Monster did with pop-mix it with sludgy, distorted fuzzbox rhythm and create some­thing of a beautiful sub-genre. Monster almost worked. F-Punk really doesn't work. The album ends up sounding like a really long rock song with techno beats stuck in between at certain parts for ftller. 
"Vitamin C" has a drawn out beginning and sounds like Jones is just hoping you'll like the song because it's easy for you to sing along. A touching ballad is attempted and fails on "Got to Set her Free." Another attempt is made with an ambient song featuring a pop song structure on "I can't go on Like This" which is listenable but not anywhere near insatiable. 
The Innocence Mission 
Glow 
****1t
out of five 

F-Punk features tight fusion in between the rock and techno. Clever hooks are apparent in certain areas and particular riffs sometimes strike a pleasant nerve. The potential for Jones' formula to blossom again exists, but a major turn-around is necessary before Big Audio Dynamite's music is as stellar as Megatop Phoenix again. Maybe Lollapalooza will try harder next year. 
Rob Adams' music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 
never just stick to an eight-note scale. They twist and blur at the front, while in the background they whisper like the memories haunting Karen Peris' lyrics. 
Bassist Mike Bitts and drummer Steve Brown are almost carbon-copies of the Sundays, with the same versatile per­cussion and intricate yet subtle bass lines. 
It's hard to allow oneself to be this taken by a band this new, but hey, this is something different. The songs on Glow are poetry in the sense that the musical quality reflects-in most cases exactly-what the lyrics want to say. It's a full, rich sound, accomplished in a way that makes the Innocence Mission sound like salty vets, yet the spirit and heart of the band shines through. 
The balance between emotion and craft is a delicate one. On Glow, the Innocence Mission almost strikes it cleanly. It's recommended listening for Sundays fans, but don't expect a cover band. They've got something of their own to say, and as the "alternative" epoch decays into a very long advertise­ment, freshness is a thing of beauty and a joy to behold. 
-by Kevin Dolan, accent music critic 

album, and even at times resembles "Here & Now" from Aurora Gory Alice , it stands out from the other songs mak­ing it the high point on wholesale meats and fish. 
There are few redeeming factors regarding the remainder of the album, especially with "Do What You Want, Yeah" which seems like an attempt to be like Courtney Love by screaming out the same lyrics over and over. 
Fortunately, the album ends on a good note with "I Could Sleep (The Wuss Song)" which is definitely lighter sound­ing and lives up to its name "The Wuss Song." Thankfully, Letters to Cleo had it in their hearts to close on a strong note. 
wholesale meats and fish is by no means as good as Aurora Gory Alice , but at least the band did not succumb to market pressure and produce an album containing twelve different versions of their previous hit song. 
Letters to Cleo will be opening for Chicago at the Ara Parseghian Benefit Concert this Saturday night at the Joyce Center . 
-by Christian Stein, accent music critic 
from Lancaster, PA that gives the people what they've wanted. 
On Glow, the Innocence Mission comes the closest to the much-missed Sundays sound, but in a fashion that leaves no doubt that they have their own state­ment to make. 
Fans of Harriet Wheeler's pouty sar­casm will be dissatisfied. Lead singer and chief songwriter Karen Peris is more concerned with reflecting, and by the sound of it, she has many things on which to reflect. All the lyrics reflect a subtle, yet present sense of loss. Though written in present tense, most deal with a past that hasn't gone the way Peris wishes it would have. 
She doesn't wail, though. In "That Was Another Country," Peris meditates on a male relative who, sometime, left: "Rowing out into the air/ Driving home, home from the bay. And we sang} And he was fine./ And what was more, he 
Unfortunately, Letters to Cleo falls short of the expectations that were built by Aurora Gory Alice . Despite Hanley's enticing vocals and clever lyric writing, Letters to Cleo's new release lacks musi­cal variance causing it to be fairly forgettable. 
The album does carry a much heavier sound and opens with about ten seconds of feedback to emphasize this point before breaking into song. 
The abrupt thrash of deeply distorted guitars found on "Demon Rock" attempts to contrast Hanley's pleasant voice as she sings, "What say you demon I what say you demon rock I of what I I'm the rock of Gibraltar." It appears as if Letters to Cleo is lyrically trying to set the stage for the rest of their album by dealing with a darker side of music. 
This tone is found on the second song as well which uses almost the exact same chord progression as "Demon Rock," but this time Hanley is accom­was around." It's not death, but a quiet sense of frustration that Peris tries to express, and she hammers it vocally and lyrically like few "alternative girls" have. 
Pure accomplishment, actually, is what makes this album great. It's one of those odd occasions where the ambi­tions of the band were met completely, and the result is almost always pleasing. "Happy, the End" is a song about winter, and it sounds like ... well, winter. 
"Our Harry," another ode to the disap­pearing brother/friend, is like a back spasm-quick, intense, yet very person­al. Peris plays solo on an acoustic guitar, and there's almost no echo, giving the song the intimacy on laser that it had, presumably, in Peris' notebook. 
Peris, however, is not the only mem­ber of the band. The other Peris, gui­tarist Don, is responsible for the instru­mental greatness of the album, laying down chiming electric guitar tracks that 
panied in her verse by distorted bass guitar. "Fast Way" is powerful, howev­er, the lack of variation tends to dimin­ish its overall effect. 
One of the more notable highlights found in the first couple of songs and continues through the album's entirety is drummer Stacy Jones' desperate attempt to bring life to the music through his use of rolls and light cymbal work while maintaining a heavy sound. 
As is the case with many new albums, the first single released is usually the best song. wholesale meats and fish is no exception to this rule as "Awake," the fourth song on the album, provides a glimmer of hope for what is to follow. Hanley's lyrics are solid, as is the accompanying music, in this song about a relationship gone bad. "You're awake I and I'm asleep I and we are so com­plete that way." 
Even though "Awake" has a similar sound when compared to the rest of the 
Letters to Cleo 
wholesale meats and fish 
**~ 
out of five 

Thursday, September 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
The Ob~erver accepts classifieds ~ery business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9 PM THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR 255-0458 NEED 10 
Newly remodeled Bed and Breakfast located In Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 5 rooms with private baths, space available for football game wknds. 1-800-418­9487 
TONIGHT (21 Sept) 
•• MEDIEVAL CLUB MEETING'' 
8:00 in the Medieval Institute (7th floor, Hesburg Library) All are welcome! 
Tonight: Stamper BoB & the 4x4's JAZZMAN'S 10:00pm 
NO @ WASHINGTON -2 Obi Rms Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch for 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise to/from game. No game tkts. $600. Mike (206)575-0711. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST 
35mm Pentax Camera 
In a Brown & Black Case 
Call4x3371 
$$ 1REWARDI $$ 
LOST: Very sentimental royal blue/white J.Crew pullover/coat. Psbly inS. Din. Hall. Small reward. PLEASE call me If you have it Lisa 4·0848 
HELP! I've lost my keys and don't happen to have the extra$50 to pay the fines, so any info is appreciated. Two keys (one mall. one door) on a gQid rectangull~r Notre Dame key· chain. Both have#400. Call x2489­Belinda. thanks. 
$$$$ BIG REWARD $$$$ LOST: Sliver Charm Bracelet; 4 charms, lost end of last year; extreme sentimental value; PLEASE HELPI Call 284·5479 or x2028 
Lost a Gold Chain Bracelet of great sentimental value ...Piease, If found, call MARl at X2969ll :( Thanks. 
LOST: gold necklace with cross and heart charm lnscrlpted "Andy" on back. Please call 0930 if foundll 
._____w._l\_N_T_E_o_ __.l 
AlASKA EMPLOYMENT­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)545·4155 ext A55841 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -
Eam up to $2,000+/month on 
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­
nies. World travel. Seasonal & full· 
time employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more 
Information call1·206-634·0468 
ext. C55841 
WANTEDII 
Authentic N.D. Stadium seat 
offered by Athletic Dept. 
I DESPERATELY need to buy one 
-but they're SOLD OUT! 
PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11 
Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) 
M·F8-5cst 
(708)325-8700 
Thanks. 
RIDE TO ND·OSU GAME. WILL 
SHARE COSTS AND DRIVING. 
PREFER TO SPEND FRI OR SAT 
NIGHT AT OSU, BUT NOT NEC. 
CALL MARC x0672 
TUTOR needed to come to my house (10 min. from NO) from 4:30 to 6:30 on Mon, Tues, Wed, Thur, and some Sun. Two high school students need help with Chemistry, Biology, Algebra. Will pay well. 272­8235. 
Video tapes of the 1 g92 and 1995 
Northwestern football games (with 
commercials and halftime reports) 
-Call Rick C 277·8260 
RIDERS WANTED NY/NJ to NO I am flying home and buying a car, but If I drive It back alone I think I will probably crash II. No gas $ nee., but I need you to spell me at the wheel. Smokers welcome. Call Josh@ 277·9071 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1·206-545-4804 ext. N55841 
Local church looking for a pianist for choir practice on Wed. evenings 7·8. 
Call272-8141 -Westminister Presbyterian Church. · Paid position. 
Seeking RIDER(s) to S. FLORIDA for X·MAS: Dec 14/Jan 13. Call Dyan 4·0979. 
FOR RENT 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 232-2595 
HOUSE TO SELL OR RENT. WALK TO NO. 315 NAPOLEON, 
3 BR, 1-1/2 B., 2·CAR GARAGE, UTILITIES. IDEAL FACULTY/STAFF HOME. AVAIL· ABLE NOW. SALE $88,000, RENT $600/MO., PLUS UTILITIES. 277­8946. 
BED & BFST LOVELY ROOM WITH PRIVATE BATH. SLEEPS 2 • SMC & NO PARENTS & FRIENDS. 272·5989 
3 BDRM HOME NEAR NO CAM· PUS, 3 MIN BY CAR. SHARE KITCHEN. $150/RM/MON PLUS UTILITIES. CALL 272·7376 
Roommate Problems? Affordable, clean furnished 
1 bdrm apt. still available in student occupied 3 flat­$270· heat & water inc. 755 South Bend Ave (1 block from NO Ave) deposit, 
references 1·800·582-9320 
HOME CLOSE TO NO GOOD AREA 2773097 
Nicely decor. rms for rent ftball wknds 2 mi. N of campus, cont. brk­fst, reduced rates, call Kim 277· 8340. 
ZEP HOUSE '96-97 

6 bedrms. Beach V-ball ct. 
273·0482, 234·3831 

~..-I_F_O_R_SA_L_E_ __. 
!@'&%$'"(#$#$@( 

HEY CHECK THIS OUTII 
Nothing but pure bassi! 
Subwoofers for salell 
Call4·1666 for more info 
@#$"%81'11$(%'%")('"&('%& 
1985 Honda Hatchback 
$1000/Best offer 708-957-1546 
(Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires 
& Brakes. 

85 Mazda626LX, 92K, Auto, 4Dr,AII Opts, Excal Cond. $2700. 219·271· 0783. 
HP Laser Jet Series II printer. The 
Cadillac of printera. Top condition. 
$700. 277-2560. 

SoloFiexlleg extensionslbuttertly 
TreadmiiVeach 1 yr. old 
Call after 5PM 273-0487 
Selling 2 Texas tlx call dealmelster 
X2054 
2 R.E.M. TIX 

DEER CREEK MUS. CEN. 
NEXT TUE (SEPT. 26)· 7:30P.M. 
DEB '4320 
FOR SALE: 

MAUVE COLORED COUCH & 
LOVE SEAT AND TWO lAMPS. 
PRICE: $200. CALL 277-3060. 
BIKE FOR SALE.272-6306 
High power Yamaha RXV-670 AV Surrou{ld Receiver. 18 months old, $800 new, only $325. Sony 65-Watt powered sub, $75. Call Tony@ X-1726 
TICKETS 
SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX 
!@$%%&&"'"&'%"%$@ HELP ME 1@#$% 
I DESP.ERATELY NEED 3 Texas Student Tickets 
HELP ME@###%$$#"% 
CALL DAVE B. @ 273·0391 
SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX SEX 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219·232·0061, 24 HRS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. BUY'SELL 'TRADE (219) 232-0058-24 HRS. 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. CALL ALISON 1-800-431·0010, EXT. 8796. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy! Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370 $$$$$$ 
Need G.A. Tlx to NO-Texas. Call Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 
NEED NO·TEXAS GA 
OR STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE 1-800-444-1133 EXT. 3876. 
NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & PURDUE GA'S. 219-422·6088. 
CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT? NEED TEX TIX·GA OR STDNT TOP DOLlAR PAID CALL KELLI X4044 
BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE CALL KATIE@ 219-271·9856. THANKYOUI 
USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU· DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT 219·271-9856. THANK YOU! 
WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817­738·5109 
"Need two BC tixl" Please call Kristin @ 2377 

NEED: 1 GA for Texas and 1 GA forBC. call Christine @ 273·2580 
Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. Please call Cheryl x4883 
Need 2 tickets for NO vs. Texas. Call Ken, collect at (405)677·8253 
Need 4 USC GA's Katie X4088 
NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud tic to sell X2620 
Need 2 Student Tlx and 2 GA's for Texas. Call Dominic @ 273-8709 If you can help me out. 
NEED TXS STD TIX • RON X0648 
need Texas GA's. John 1-7204; 233-3412 
Need USC GA'S 1 USC stud. needed Matt 288-3823 

Need Texas & BC Tickets· GA or Student -Willing to buy or trade Call Matt 273-9650 
WANTED-tickets for U CS,TEXAS or NAVY. Please call271-0989, also have answering machine. 
Need 2 Texas GA's. Call Alison X2511 
Need 2 BC GA'slll X4027 
I NEED 4 GA'S FOR THE TEXAS GAME. PLEASE DO NOT CALL IF YOU HAVE STUDENT TICKETS TURNED INTO GA'S. 
CALL JOE 4·1 846. 
I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR THE usc. CALL BILL AT 4·1854. 
YOU NEED BEER MONEY! I desperately need TX tix Will buy/ trade. call 272·4911 
TRADE 5 NAVYTIX. Will trade for TEXAS TIX. KEVIN x3254 
SAVE MEl OR MY HTH WILL KILL ME. Need 1 Texas tlx GA or Stud Vince X 1664 
NEED 1 GA FOR TEXAS please help Sean x-1398 
2 G.A. Texas tickets needed. Call Mary Lou daytime 234·7553. 
Evenings 259-7710. 
Have 2 Tex tics. Will trade for 2 USC. Bob. 277-2560. 
2 OSU tlx for sale Only serious offers! call John@ 219·277·5073 
NEED 2 USC GAs. WILL TRADE 2 BC GAs+$$. CALL CHRIS AT X1570 
I NEED TEXAS GA'S & STUD'S! PAUL X5113 PLEASEIII 
NO Alum has 2 Tex G.A.'s and is looking to trade for 2 USC G.A.'s Call (717)697-2219 ask for Tom or 
leave message. 
MARRIED STD BKS 4 Sale B.O 273-2331 
IN GRAVE NEED OF TEXAS TICK­ETS! Need (GA and Stundent) for older and younger brothers. 
NEED TEXAS TICKETS FOR OLDER AND YOUNGER BROTH­
ER (GA OR STUD) I CALL KEITH 3482 
HELPII MY HTH NEEDS A TEXAS TICKET. GA IF POSSIBLE CALL TRACY X4869 
NEED TO TRADE NAVY GA'S 
FOR TEXAS GA'S. HELP! 
DAN 3676 
Need Tixlll 
OSU, BC, Navy 
call Tom 233-2289 
Need two Texas Tickets 
Ca11Ericx1157 
Need Texas Tickets! 
Also have a USC ticket 
to sell or trade. 
Call Carlos @ x0915 
Need 1 Texas stud. ticket 
Call immediately! x2091 
TEXASGA .BEST OFFER 
X1759 
I NEED 3 TEXAS GA'S 
RYAN #1239 PLEASE! 
I need 2-4 Texas GA's. call Dennis @ x4335. 
Help Wanted: 
Need GAs for USC-money no 
object. 
Brian x3692 
Wanted: 4 tickets together -any 
home game 
Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC 
Caii1-800-922-BEAR day 
1-502-354-8826 collect In evening 
Alum needs Texas tix. Call Mike 
COLLECT 516-471·0300 
NEED 1 TEXAS GAll Call Jeannine @ 273-0962 
I have 1 USC GA & 1 NAVY GA. If you have a BC GA & want to trade call Joe @2257 
Have 2 Tex GA, will trade for 2 BC 
GA Roger x-16764 I will TRADE student the to TX, USC & BC for 2 NAVY GA's 233-6165 
Need Texas GA X1426 
I NEED 2 TEXAS TIX GA's or studs call Courtney X2179 
Sale TEX MARA STUDS 2718154 
USC GATIX NEEDED 2718154 
SALE USC STUDS SOME MARRIED 2718154 
NEEDED -6 TEXAS TICKETS STUDORGA'S CALL 273·3292 
TRADE • 4 Tex GAs for 4 BC GAs, ·or will buy. Call277·5941 
TEXAS STUD TIX 4 SALE 273-5295 
1 TEXAS STU. TK. For sale! CALLx0516 
FOR SALE: 2 Texas GAs. 273·9838. 
Need 2 TEX TIX$ or Dad will kill mel TURK 273·9105 
#$##### Need Texas and BC GA's for priest and a friend. CALL TIM X3889 
@@@@@@@ 
For Sale: 2 OSU-ND tickets South Open End. $500 For Both • Firm 513-592-7075 or 513·592·3447 
Wanted: 1 -4 tickets for the Ohio State gamell Call: 219·294·3250 ask for bill, call before11 am and after2pm 
TX STD TICKET FOR SALE BEST OFFER BY 9:00 TONIGHT LEAVE OFFER AT 4-1524 
I NEED TEXAS GA'SI PAULX5113 PLEASEIII 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 
NEED TEXAS GAs· WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 
NEED 1-7TEXAS GA'S. X1899 
Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. Call Anne x4896. 
CA family needs 3 BC GAs. Please! Call Clara x4826 
WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL­LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL­LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S. CALL TODD AT 4·1787. 
ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR USC TEXAS OHIO STATE WASH ga's PERSONAL USE ONLY 2773097 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM ATX1899. 
I NEED TICKETSII If you are not using your tlx for the Texas game (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL­LECT at (210)805-8355, after 7 pm CST. 
Need 2 good tlx for any of the dates 10/21' 10/28, 11/4. (515)486-2517 
Wanted two to four home game tickets. Call or write. 314-731-7604 Gary Goehl PO Box 4152 Hazelwood MO 63042 
Alum wants 2 tlx for ohio state call Eileen x3878 
Crazed relative wants BC GA's money no object call Eileen x3878 
Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home games. Call Tom at (312)280­2591, Bill at (312)327 -5329, or Greg at (708)253-7997 Need GA's to any game Call Katie X 1093 
WANTED· TEXAS GA'S OR STUD'S WILL PAY BIG$$$ 815-282·9503 
DON'T MESS WITH TEXAS 
SELL MEYOUR 
TEXAS GA'S 
FOR LARGE SUMS Alex@ OFCASH $$ 4-3504 
NEED TICKETS 
4 TEXAS G.A.'S 
Call Sean x2153 
Need 3 TEXAS GA's and/or STUD TXTS. Call Tom 4-3637111 
WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC GAISTDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR 2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990­0890. 
NEED MANY, MANY G.A.'S AND STUDENT TIX. FOR THE B.C. GAME. AND. EXTRA TICKET BOOKS WANTED. CALL US 273·5953. 
Central OH NO Alum living In Atlanta. GA needs tix for ND·OSU. Will pay top DOLLAR or trade lodg­ing and/or tlx for '96 Olympics. Call 404·451-4069 or 404·813·6073. 
I@#$0/o"&'()_ +()}(<>+__)('&"%$#@I 
Dave Thinks he has a chance at getting two tickets (GAs or student) for his parents for Texas. We say noway. 
If you want to prove us wrong call him at 219-634-3593 and make him an offer. He is desperate lor tix (as well as other things). He will do anything for them (did we mention he is In Glee Club?). 
We know he has no chance, but prove us wrong and he will ... 
I@##$0/o"&'()_+():"<>?1 @#$•!<>"&'() 
NEED TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TICKET, NICK@ 232-1726 
NEED 2 TEXAS GASI PLEASE 
CALL MICHELLE-X4530 
Need Texas Stud & Ga Tlx 
Eric 233-4435 
Need UW tix: 273·9730 
NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$ CALL JAMIE 271-8662 
NEEDED: TEXA$ GA's 
call273-9710 
NEED TEXAS TIX yes I do 273-5281 
NEED TEXAS GAslllll 
PLEASE CALL ROGER 
233-2289 
PLEASE HELPIIII . My lather Is a psycho! He and a friend are coming down lor the game this weekend and they don't have any tickets. If you have two GA's lor the Texas game, please call Brian at x1741. 
FOR SALE 
1 student ticket book 
287 ·6504 1 O:OOpm -11 :30pm 
Parents Coming! 
Need 2 GA's to Texas 
Call Larry 634-4540 
4Sale 
Pair of Stud Married TIX 
273.0824 -leave an offer 
NEED 6 GA'S 2 STD 4 TXS X2855 
Have 2 TEXAS GAs, to TRADE for 2 BC or USC GAs. Colin X ·1389 
I NEED TEXAS, USC & OHIO ST 
GA TIXS.CONFIDENTIAL 272· 
6306 
2 USC TIX Will sell or trade for 2 Navy tix call Jen X 2342 to trade or leave best offer by 1012 
NEED 1 Tex. Stud. Tlc for the mutt. Call Aaron @ 233-4008 
I NEED TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TICKETS. Call Marty 273-9650 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 21, 1995 
Class 
continued from page 13 

2 USC TIX Will sell or trade for 2 Navy tix call Jen X 2342 to trade or leave best offer by 10/2 
NEED 1 Tex. Stud. Tic for the mutt. Gall Aaron @ 233-4008 
I NEED TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TICKETS. Call Marty 273-9650 

Sale: 2 GAs. Texas. 289-36651eave mes­sage. 
NEED: 4 stud or GA tix to Navy-call Lisa x4669 

NEEDED: SC or BC STUITIX Please call Justin @x1811 
student booklet for sale. Call 256 9706, leave message, make offer. 
PLEASE HELPI I need 3 Navy GA's Call Betsy @ x3727 
4 Texas tickets for sale. Call4-3247 
PERSONAL 
JAZZERCISE 
ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT &STAY THAT WAY. 
VERY CLOSE TO.CAMPUS. CALL277-D1111=0R MORE INFO. 
Bookstore Basketball X X V 

Don't forget to pick up applications in Student Activities (3rd floor, LaFortune) if you want to be a Commissioner for the 25th Anniversary Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. Bigger, Better, Televised?? 
Help plan the world's largest outdoor 5­on-5 hoop tournament. 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're open for your convenience!II 
Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon -Midnight 

·(closed home football Saturdays) 
12 "NAUGH"ty freshwomen seeking 12 equally naughty single men for the Oct. 6 SYR. Call 4-1393 for more details. 
Tel Avivvvwvl 
THIS FRIDAY, 7/22 the return of SUNSHINE WINE at the return and reopen­ing of CLUB 23 
* 7 Farley Freshmen * * Seek For SYR * * 7 Freshmen Guys * 
Call Megan ASAP! x4068 * 
the BIG EARL reunion tour hits JAZZMAN'S this SAT 1O:OOpm 

HOUSE OF ICONS "The Back House" 111 E. Navarre, SB (near Memorial Hospital) Best selection of icons, devotional books and gifts. 233-2523 
Want to get in kilt with Irish Guard I Call4869 
"Culture Wars" 

An installment of a four part public televi­sion documentary that explores the move­ment for Gay/Lesbian civil rights across the country. 
Thursday, September 21st 7:00p.m. Montgomery Theater 
SMC 
continued from page 20 

Instead of waiting for the ball, each player anticipated the next play. 
"The win was a result of a team effort with each player covering each other," said Schroeder-Biek. 
Sara Stronczek dominated the game with 18 kills, 2 blocks, and 16 digs. 
However, senior Ann 
Field Hockey practice has been changed to Thurs @4 on the Rugby Field at Stepan. 
Anyone who can officate field hockey, call 272-9455. 
No, I love YOU Tweedle-dumb. What's the boot factor tonight? High, I hope? And tomorrow ... 
HEADII PANTS!! NOW!! 
Kiddo, 

One of these days I am going to get a letter, then who knows you might get to read all this, but probably not. 
-An lllinios Farmer 

Sorry Valerie,! forgot your phone number. I'll put it in ASAPI David 
GOBEACHI!I 

get the Inside Track on admissions 
Come to one of our •=ffii,i¥ffj@tfree seminars· 
Tues., Sept. 26 7-8:30 pm On Campus! 


"AI ::elected locations. Not all1!8111inar> offered at all locations. 
KAPLAN 

Lawrence gained the attention of both Schroeder-Biek and Stronczek with her quiet contri­butions. 
"Ann is the unspoken hero. She makes the key plays when they are most needed. 
She does not have the big sta­tistics, but it is the little things that she does," said Schroeder­Biek. 
Stronczek added that Lawrence's "200 percent in­tensity" saved the team. 
Lawrence, the only current four year player for Schroeder-Biek, feels that her goal as team co-captain is to try to "keep the team focused." 
The Belles' next game is at Al­bion College Monday. Last year Saint Mary's defeated Albion in five games (15-7, 15-13, 9­15,14-16,15-17). However, Schroeder-Biek expects it to be a tough match. 
"We go into every game think­ing that it is going to be tough. We are taking each match one step at a time, knowing each victory brings us one step closer to our goal," she said. 
J ZZM N's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 233-8505 
T H frri'SsDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring Live Entertainment by: 
Stomp~rBob 
The 4X4's 
•With 
Lady Melo-"D"Piaying Your Favorite Hir Hop Music To Dance And Party To AI Night Long 

•Both 
Dance Floors Open Until Close 


3.00 Admission With Student ID 
5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11 :00 pm 
e 



Thursday, Septmber 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL •NFL 
Red Sox clinch division NFL, Jones battle over 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associatod Pross 
BOSTON 

Mo Vaughn stood on second, pumping his fist toward Jose Canseco, who had just deliv­ered the decisive run -and the AL East title -with a broken­bat single, not a trademark homer. 
Canseco did what the Red Sox hoped he would do when they traded with Texas for him in the offseason. His seventh-in­ning hit Wednesday night gave Boston a 3-2 win over the Mil­waukee Brewers and its first division championship since 1990. 
"That's why we got him," Vaughn said. "He set out to do a job and he did it and that's why we are right here." 
The usually serious Vaughn s'miled in the champagne-soaked clubhouse after he and several teammates had taken celebratory rides on horses of mounted policemen who rode onto the field after the victory. 
Canseco, obtained in a trade with Texas in the offseason, has been a key to Boston's season, hitting .306 with 24 homers and 77 RBis, including two RBis Wednesday. Since the All­Star break, he is hitting .327 with 19 homers and 56 RBis. 
"I really didn't think about it," Canseco said of filling the hero's role the Red Sox hoped he would fill. "I just thought about getting that base hit, putting us ahead." 
And he didn't mind that he did it with a single through the infield instead of a homer far over the left-field wall. 
"I would have rather had the single than hit a line drive to the shortstop," he said. "That ball was surgically placed." 
After that, Boston held Mil­waukee hitless as Rick Aguilera picked up his 31st save. 
The Red Sox have held first place by themselves since May 13 and built a season-high 16­game lead Aug. 28. But they've had trouble locking up the di­vision. 
They went 3-7 on a recent road trip to New York, Baltimore and Cleveland as their magic number remained at two. 
It stayed there when the Red Sox lost and the second-place Yankees won Monday. Boston won 5-3 Tuesday to clinch a tie for the division title, but 50 minutes later New York fin­ished a 5-3 win over Toronto, giving Boston a chance to clinch with a victory Wednes­day. 

equal playing field 
By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
The NFL's licensing dispute with the Dallas Cowboys goes beyond substance. It's also about Jerry Jones' style and the· way it offends many of his col­leagues. 
When Jones publicly upstaged New York Giants owner Wellington Mara's parade and went out of his way to throw darts at Paul Tagliabue, he unified a group that's difficult to unify. 
It's not unusual for NFL own­ers to fight. 
When you put 30 multimil­lionaires together, they're usu­ally too competitive to be pals. But when you publicly embar­rass the league's patriarch and the commissioner who has kept the NFL in the black while other sports suffer, you end up, as Jones did, getting sued for $300 million. 
Go back to the Monday night when Jones announced his marketing deal with Nike. 
Late in the second quarter, while his Cowboys were tram­pling Mara's Giants, Jones pa­raded onto the turf, followed by hordes of cameras and at­tended by Nike CEO Phil Knight and tennis star Monica Seles. Up in the TV booth, Al Michaels was reading to the national audience the press release headlined: "Cowboys' Owner Bucks NFL Again." 
In one stroke, Jones had of­fended just about every owner in the NFL. 
Why? 
Because with that headline ­perhaps the overzealous work of an anonymous public rela­tions person -Jones had pro­nounced what was viewed as his real intention. 
And with his parade onto the field, he had upstaged Mara, a man who has been in the league since his father bought the team in 1925, when he was 9 years old. It came just before the halftime ceremony at which the Giants were retiring the number of Phil Simms, the quarterback who helped them to two Super Bowls while they were up and the Cowboys were down -the perfect example of cycles in the NFL. 
As Mara said last week: "You see the same people going down the elevator as you see on the way up." 
None of this overrides the substance, which is that the other owners view Jones' ac­tion as a threat to revenue sharing that has made the field level for Green Bay at one end and New York, Chicago and Dallas at the other. 
There are other owners who quietly agree with the premise that teams should have more of a say in their own marketing instead of ceding it to NFL Properties. New England's Robert Kraft, who has his own deal with Pepsi and is attempt­ing to be the middle man be­tween Jones and the league, is one of them. 

---~-----------~ ----·-·~ ----------........---~------------.
------~-~ --­
Thursday, September 21, 1995 


Wo~nen's 
continued from page 20 

Pangborn, they were beaten by a few long passes downfield. 
"Defensively, we had a great game, except for getting beat on a few deep passes," said captain Katie McCoyd. 
Offensively, sophomore run­ning back Carrie Gulick and freshman quarterback Amy Laboe hope to lead Cavanaugh to their first victory. 
Walsh vs. Breen Phillips Walsh hopes to improve on its offense, in particular the run­
ning game, when they play B.P. on Sunday afternoon. Their strategy on defense will remain virtually the same after playing well enough to hold Howard's offense scoreless, according to defensive captain Mary Wells. 
Breen Phillips does not plan to make any major changes heading into Sunday's game. Their main focus is execution. 
"We're going about it as we always do. We'll make any ad­justments during the game if necessary,"· said Jessica Ward. 
Running back Wendy Mores, 
receiver Katie McNally, and 
freshman quarterback Laura 
Patterson hope to score early 
and often for B.P. 


.---------­
page 16 
Men's 
continued from page 20 

play potential which is always an important factor in Interhall games." 
OfT Campus vs. Dillon 

The 2:00 matchup sees Off Campus (0-1) hoping to rebound from a tough loss to Grace when they take on Dillon (0-0-1). Last week, Dillon fought No. 9 ranked Keenan down to the wire to salvage a 6­6 tie. Keenan tied the game up with a touchdown with 33 sec­onds left. However, the PAT was blocked by the Dillon defense to salvage a tie. 
Dillon concentrated mainly on 

defense during this week. 
"Our defense basically blew it 

last week," said Dilon captain 
Pete Meyer. "We had them 
down with a couple of minutes 
left, and we played not to lose." 
The Off Campus squad will 

provide a tough test for Dillon. 
The Crime is hungry for their 
frrst win of the season. 
Morrisey vs. Keenan 
Sunday's late game will fea­

ture two teams that came so 
close to wins last week that 
they could almost see that tally 
in the "W" column. Morrissey (0-1) and ranked No. 8 in the Power Poll will take on Keenan, (0-0-1), who came about as close as you can get to a win without recording a victory. 
Keenan made a John Elway type drive in the closing min­utes of last week's game to tie the score, but the PAT was blocked by the Dillon defense in the final minutes. Keenan's certain win turned into a tie. 
Meanwhile Morrissey showed 
a stingy defense against No. 6 
Planner as they held the Game­
cocks to just one touchdown. 
While the defense looked terrif­ic, the Morrissey offense left something to be desired, gain­ing only 38 yards on the day. 
Morrissey captain Mark Tate hopes to change things this weekend by opening up the of­fense. 
"We will try to pass more, mix it up some, and show some different formations instead of running so much," Tate said. 
So when this Sunday rolls 
around, look for some great 
football action as the Interhall 
season unfolds. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• ••• CONSIDERATIONS  
WHY CONFESSION? Many people celebrate the Sacrament of Reconciliation here at Notre Dame. At the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, Heart disease continues to be a major c_ause of death, opportunities for confession and reconciliation are at 11:15 a.m.especially in the United States. Yet, our ability to open up the and 5:00p.m. Monday through Friday, and at 7:00p.m. Monday body and to keep the heart going has improved. Because of through Thursday. early diagnosis and proper treatment, those who have heart disease may be able to live, and live more freely. If you're like me, deep within your heart you realize that ..._sometimes there are problems. If you're like me you realize thatThere is a different kind of heart problem that is probably . there is a difference between the way you are and the way you more-prevalent than any other. Symptoms include self~ really want to be. Let us not leave these problems of the heart interested ambition, abuse of others, and ignoring people in untreated. Let us accept God's invitation to live happy and need. This hardness of heart is called sin. It is often frustrating generous lives. and, if left untreated, it is deadly. The one tried and true Bob Dowd, C.S.C. treatment for this problem of the heart is honesty. Honesty that is followed by a commitment to love others and self usually lead a person to live more freely. TWENTY-FIFTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME It is easy for us to say that in order to live happy and generous lives we must be honest. It is difficult to truly be honest. Admitting that we have hurt somebody and actually saying "I'm sorry" is usually not done without some pain. There are various ways to be honest with ourselves and with others. It seems to me that all of them require concrete steps. One concrete method which is offered by the Catholic Church is the sacrament of Reconciliation, also known as the SUNDAY MAssESSacrament of Penance and confession. AT SACRED HEART BASILICA The Catholic Church teaches that speaking honestly and 8:00a.m. Rev. Neil Ryan, C.S.C. actually saying "I'm sorry" to another person (in the Sacrament 10:00 a.m. Rev. Peter Rocca, C.S.C., Celebrant Rev. Neil Ryan, C.S.C., Homilist of Reconciliation this person is a priest) is essential for real 11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C., Celebrant heaJing and reconciliation to take place. The Catholic Church Rev. Neil Ryan, C.S.C., Homilist teaches that it is essential for us to hear the words "I forgive you" for real healing and reconciliation to take place. SATURDAY VIGIL MAssES It is the Faith of the Church that this sacrament is God's way September 23 of opening our hearts· in order to heal them. It is God's way of BAsiLICA Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. removing the obstacles that cause our hearts to be so hard. It is 30 min. after game Rev. Neil Ryan, C.S.C., Homilist God's way of allowing us to live more freely. It's God's way of STEPAN CENTER Rev. James Ferguson, C.S.C. helping us to be the kind of people we really want to be, the 45 min. after game Rev. Edmund Goedert, C.S.C., Homilist kind of people God is calling us to be.  

~--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
by consistently stuffing the run, but did
IH •NBA
give up two big, key pass plays, each of which ended in a touchdown. continued from page 20 
Alumni's offense is a throwback to the 
Trail Blazers, Pistons 
old days, when they played smash-mouth, each caught a touchdown pass. grind-it-out football. Their attack, led by There is, however, no question who will tailback Matt Mammolenti and a tough be leading Carroll's offensive attack, pos­offensive line, has no problem getting 
finalize Thorp trade
sibly the most dangerous of this year's down and dirty. They eat up the clock 
season. Senior quarterback Tim Nelson, a first year interhall player, has good speed, an accurate arm, and seems to make the right decision on every play, especially the option. It doesn't hurt that he has a vast arsenal of weapons at his disposal, includ­ing tailback Jeff Kloska and fullback Joe Schenner. Kloska, who rushed for two touchdowns last week, has the speed and agility to turn the corner, but is also tough enough to run inside. Schenner combines such lineman like size, along with decep­tive speed, that he can't be arm tackled. 
Although the Vermin defense did post a shutout last week, It must shore up some holes for this week. They must limit Zahm's time of possession and get the ball back Into the hands of the offense. 
A matchup of the top offense and the top defense: who could ask for anything more in an early-season matchup? 
Fisher vs. Alumni 
Although Alumni's defense may not be as lethal as Zahm's, It still posted a shutout last week. Therefore, Fisher must beware. The Fisher offense was unable to put together any kind of formidable drive, and will need to if they are to have any chance of victory. 
The defense, on the other hand, played well and kept the Zahm offense in check and score when they have to in order to win the game. The defense is solid, a fact that was evident in their 12-0 shutout of Sorin. 
This should be a relatively low-scoring affair, determined by whose offense can maintain the ball long enough to put some points on the board. 
St. Ed's vs. Sorin 

This game is simply one of pride. The team that wins is on its way back to respectability, while the loser sinks deep­er into its hole of despair. Both of these teams are traditional cellar-dwellers, and appear to be again this year. However, both showed last week that they are look­ing to reverse this trend. 
St. Ed's, despite receiving their equip­ment a week later than everyone else, was able to move the ball on a tough Car­roll team. 
Sorin's defense, last week, displayed its toughness in the first half by shutting out Alumni. However, they were worn down in the second half by Alumni's grind-it-out style, and allowed two touchdowns. This could prove to be trouble against St. Ed's. The lackluster offense will have to find a spark out of one of its skill players in order to have a chance this week. 
SHOP 
ANN  TAYLOR  LOFT  
AND  RECEIVE  
%H  

YOUR PURCHASE 
And, when you present this card along with the information below, receive a free Loft cap. 
No purchase necessary. Cap supply is limited. Offers expire 9/30/95. This coupon may be used only once. One cap per customer. 
ByBOBBAUM 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND, Ore. 
In a deal that had been expected since June, the Portland Trail Blazers traded forward Otis Thorpe to Detroit on Wednesday for rookie guard. Randolph Childress and second-year forward Bill Curley. 
The Pistons chose Childress, a sharpshooter from Wake Forest, with the 19th pick in the June 28 draft. 
At the time, Detroit coach Doug Collins made little attempt to hide the fact the pick was made for Portland, and a deal for Thorpe was imminent. 
"We are excited about getting a player of Otis' ability and just as important, he brings championship experience to our team," Collins said. "He brings durability and toughness to a team which desperately needed these qualities." 
The trade couldn't be made until a new collective bargaining agreement with the league's players was com­pleted. 
By all accounts, Thorpe was unhap­PY in Portland, where he was traded in February in the deal that sent Clyde Drexler· to Houston. In Houston, Thorpe was a starter on an NBA championship team. In Portland, he was a backup power forward to Buck Williams on a struggling team. 
At age 33, he didn't fit into the Blazers' rebuilding plans. 
"Otis played well for us when we played him last year, but there was a logjam. There's no question about that," Portland coach P.J. Carlesimo said. 
Thorpe, an 11-year veteran, aver­aged 13.5 points in 34 games with Portland. He averaged 14 points and 
10.6 rebounds in the Rockets' cham­pionship season of 1993-94. 
Childress was the second-leading scorer in Wake Forest history with 2,208 points. The Blazers expect him to play point guard but also are count­ing on his outside shooting, an area where the team has been sorely defi­cient in recent years. 
He averaged 18.4 points per game at Wake Forest, and 20.1 as a senior. 
"He can score. He's a good assist man and I think most Importantly he's a money player," Carlesimo said. "He's a guy who steps up and takes big shots." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
RecSports ~ RecSports is of· t'ering campus Ultimate Fris~ bee, Campus Co-Ree Inner· tube Water Polo and JH and Grad/Fa.c/Staff Racquetball Singles for both men and women. The entries begin Sept. 20 and the deadline is Sept. 27 at 5;00 p.m. The captain's meeting for Water Polo is 5:30 p.m. and Frisbee at 6:15 p.m. on Sept. 28 in the Joyce Center Auditorium. Any questions please call1x6100. 
Horseback Trail Ride • RecSports will be sponsoring a trail fide on Sunday, October .1 & October 8. Transportation will be provid·ed and you must register in advance at RecSports. Participants must have ridden a horse at least once. The fee is $15.00. For more info. call 1·6100. 
Domer Runs • The runs will take place on Saturday,October 7 at 11:00 AM. There will be a 3 and 6 mile run. Participants can register in advance at RecSports for 
.. 
$5.00 and on the day of the race for $6.00. For more info. call 1·6100. 
Jazz Dance • RecSports will be offering a jazz dance class on Monday & Wednesday night from 6:30-7:45. There will be an information meet· ing on Monday, October 9 at 
6:30 in Rockne Rm. 219. The fee for the class wUl be $25.00 and registration will start October 10. 
ln·Lfne Skating CUnlc • RecSports will be offering a clinic on Monday. October 9 at .5:15 in the Soutlt Parking lot .of the Joyce Center•. The fee is 1$5.00 and .call 1·6100 for more info. · lrlttb varslty lacrosse acrim• mage • versus Philadelphia·All-Stars this Friday :night on Moose Krause Field · at 
7:30p.m. Admission is free. ' Sports Talk, WVFl640 AM • ii(On Powlus and Kory Minor, live from the main floor of LaFortune, at. 9 p.m. on 'Sun• ·day. COme by with questions 
or comments. 
Campus Address Permanent Address 
Shaklee Vitamins 
City City 
H~b
Rosefand 
272-0606

~ta~--·--------·· -····-·----·-?.~.P. ___ ·---· _S_ta_te______.Zip ···--······------·-··-··-­---------------·------------------...------.... -----··· 
--~--~­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 18, 1995 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAll •NFL 
Alabama decision Woodson ignores naysayers, causes turmoil hopeful for playoff return 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 

The harsh treatment of Al­abama's football program crip­ples the NCAA's summary dis­position procedure for handling rules violations, a top NCAA administrator wrote in a na­tional journal. 
Brigham Young president Rex 

E. Lee, chairman of the NCAA committee that developed the summary disposition process in 1991, said he was "extremely disappointed" that the proce­dure failed in the Alabama case. 
The NCAA Infractions Com­mittee rejected the summary disposition agreement between Alabama and the NCAA en­forcement staff, resulting in far stiffer penalties -three years of probation and a substantial loss in scholarships for Al­abama. 
Lee addressed the Alabama case in the Sept. 8 edition of "The Chronicle of Higher Edu­cation." 
"This action takes the heart out of the summary-disposition process," wrote Lee, a former 
U.S. solicitor general. "Fact finding should be left to the school and the enforcement staff. Unless you have that, summary disposition means very little." 
The enforcement staff and Al­abama had agreed that the school unintentionally commit­ted two v·iolations of NCAA rules related to former players Gene Jelks and Antonio Langham. 
But the infractions commit­tee, which holds final authority, discarded the agreement and came up with another violation -that of unethical conduct against former NCAA faculty representative Tom Jones, who was accused of lying to. the NCAA. 
Infractions committee chair­man David Swank told the Birmingham Post-Herald in a story Wednesday that he agreed with Lee's assessment, but only up to a point. 
"If the school and the en­forcement staff agree, the com­mittee shouldn't disagree unless it has some significant reason," Swank said. "In this case. we did." 
Alabama, which is appealing the penalties, said the commit­tee still has not clearly ex­plained what it saw in the evi­dence that the university and the enforcement staff missed. 
The Chronicle article said Al­abama and NCAA investigators "acknowledged that Mr. Jones had performed poorly and ig­nored crucial evidence" but concluded that he erred unin­tentionally. 
The Chronicle article said the Alabama case has made other universities leery of going through the summary disposi­tion process, which is similar to plea bargaining in a criminal case. 

Beta Alpha Psi and 
PrieeWaterho~R UP 

International AccolUlling Issues 
TONIGHT!!! 
6:15 Reception and Pizza 
6:45 BAP Meeting 
7:00 PW Presentation 
101 DeBartolo All are welcome! Beta Alpha Psi attendance mandatory. 
By AlAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH 
Rod Woodson keeps hearing he's out for the season. Rod Woodson refuses to believe it. 
Woodson, the All-Pro corner­back from Purdue who seri­ously injured his right knee on Sept. 3, is so hopeful of return­ing this season that he's talked coach Bill Cowher into keeping him on the Pittsburgh Steelers' active roster. 
Cowher told Woodson he would wait at least three weeks, until the injury can be further analyzed, before the Steelers make a final decision. 
If the Steelers put Woodson on injured reserve, he could not be reactivated this season. 
"We'll see how it works out for the team," Woodson said Wednesday. "If guys don't get injured they can (keep him ac­tivated).... It all really de­pends." 
Normally, an injury like 
Woodson's -a torn anterior cruciate ligament -takes months of rehabilitation, and can be career-threatening. And Woodson won't be ofT crutches for another month and can't begin extensive rehab until then. 
"But, hopefully, if it goes the way I hope it will, if they make the playoffs which I think they will, I'll be able to suit up in time for the playoffs," Woodson said. 
Woodson is so involved in the diagnosis and analysis of his· injury, he even watched as Dr. Richard Steadman operated on the knee Sept. 11 in Vail, Colo. 
Woodson was given a local anesthetic and was fully alert as the operation was per­formed. 
"Hey, I have to see what they're doing in there," Wood­son said. "I wanted to make sure they weren't making any mistakes ... Yeah, it's interest­ing. I was just trying to figure 
out what's in there." 
z 
•0 ••_a. 
== 
~A 
111::1 
-.>m io 
Steadman replaced the dam­aged anterior cruciate ligament with a patella tendon from Woodson's right knee. Woodson is already lifting weights to pre­vent muscle atrophy in his right leg and hopes to soon begin jogging and riding a bike. 
One of the NFL's best-condi­tioned athletes, Woodson is a former world-class sprinter who had never been seriously injured until this season. 

"You're depressed for a while.... I felt maybe it wasn't really happening," he said. "But you have to be mentally strong. If you're not mentally strong, your body can't be strong. I know it happened, I have to deal with it and start with the rehabilitation." 
Woodson, visiting the locker room for the first time since his injury, plans to return regularly once he is off crutches -but he won't do any coaching of the Steelers' young cornerbacks. Or any cheerleading, either. 

The University of Notre Dame is pleased to announce that 
Professor John Borkowski 
will continue to serve as University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment. 
If you are a victim of discriminatory harassment and do not know where to turn, call the University Ombudsperson for Discriminatory Harassment at 
631-3909. 



Thursday, September 21, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 



ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
,!:....1~.::!.&!!-f• ~~-4-!:.~ 


Come 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

OOGBERT THE PR CQNSllLTfl.NT :II 
c~ 
Jc3..m 
Gr 
49 One who gives special service? 51 San --, Calif. 
52 Uppity 
51 Lifeless 
57 Forensic psychiatrists, at times 
DOWN 
1 Grab 2 "Author! 
Author!" actor 3 Inclined, in a way 4 Carpool 1 Hail from the 
past eApollo part 7 Driving hazards? 1 South-of-the­
border orders 1 Everyday connections 10"-ldeas" 
(1950 hit) 11 Throw 12 Ancient district 
In Asia Minor 
1:1 Bureaus 14 Folk singer and 
family 11 Lamb products 22 Son of Mala 23Nth 21Nut 27 Doozie 28 Photo 
developing powder 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Important financial growth will be accelerated by a new partnership. Your powers of persuasion are at an all-time high. You easily sell others on adopting your goals. January of 1996 brings exciting employment opportunities. One-on-one relation­ships flourish! Next May, travel for both business and pleasure, but watch a tendency to overspend. Timely home repairs are essential. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: movie star Sophia 
Loren, jazz great Jelly Roll Morton, 
hockey player Guy La Aeur, actress 
Rachel Roberts. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do 
everything you can to avert a clas~ 
of wills. A disagreement may not be 
resolved for some time. Interviews, 
auditions and meetings should go 
beautifully today. Seek solitude 
tonight to recharge your batteries. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Your instincts lead you to make a 
shrewd investment. Look forward to 
good financial news! Contacts with 
friends and business associates make 
this a very busy day. This evening, 
take time for fun and relaxation. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Iron 
out bothersome details involving 
paperwork or procedures. Remem­
ber, nothing good comes easy. 
Refuse to let minor annoyances get 
to you. A major public relations 
effort will produce wonderful 
results. Avoid rocking the boat. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 

You will enjoy being thrust into the limelight today. Your positive atti­tude has caught the attention of prominent people. Give free rein to your creativity, but guard your pri­vacy. Be more discreet about past 
romantic ties. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An out­
of-town business meeting will 
require special handling. A sudden 
change in career direction could 
cause a temporary cash shortage. 
Think twice if an associate proposes 
• OF INTEREST 


"Samba Traore", a 1993 film by Idrissa Ouedraogo from Burkina Faso, Africa, will be shown tonight at 7 
P.M. Sponsored by the African Students' Association, the movie will be presented in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. $1 donations will be accepted at the door. 
German Club is holding a meeting this evening. Open to both new and current members, it begins at 
7:30 P.M. in the Dooley Room of LaFortune. 
"Juggler" is seeking submissions. Auy poetry, prose, short stones ~d art work should be delivered to 356 O'Shag by October 2. 
•MENU Notre Dame 

... 
North South 
BBQ Beef Sandwich Roast Turkey Breast 
29 Vilifies 41 Ancient squares 50 Tobacco wad 
Sauteed Chicken Breast C..heese & Vegetable
51 Rock's Bon Jovi 42 Film "star" since 

Mini Bakers Piea 1943 
32 Tenor Peerce 

and others 33 Research 
Whipped Potatoes 
53 Canal site 43 Girds

facility: Abbr. 54 Title of respect: 
41 Balloon probe 
Abbr. 48 Swiss miss 55 Initials on maps 
34 It's seen in bars 
31German 
SaintMary>s

41 Like some eds. of old Eur. 
pronoun 
Deli Bar 
36 Take back lost 
MeatLoaf
territory 
Au Gratin Potatoes 

Get answers to any three clues
38 Certain tube 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
· 40 English author 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
Asquith 
' 
JEANE DIXON 
a risky scheme. Trust your instincts. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Capitalizing on your specialized knowledge will boost your earning power. Loved ones are unusually cooperative about cutting expenses. An evening at home can be an inex­pensive way to entertain friends. Keep the menu simple. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your mind may be a million miles away from the business at hand. Neither your fantasies nor your fears will materiali7.e. Use words to praise and support, not condemn. Set a good example for children. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your excellent taste delight~ a new­comer. A carefully chosen gift will let someone know that you really do care about them. See if a costly business trip can be avoided by using the fax or e-mail. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Expect the unexpected today! Although you are ready to make a fresh start, certain people may resist change. Learn more about ESP, yoga and reincarnation. Romance beckons this evening. Show your tender, compassionate side. 

..
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Pour effort and money into innovative creative projects. A dar­ing approach will pay off royally! Meeting an adversary face-to-face helps you emerge the winner. Con­sult a design expert regarding a home-remodeling venture. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your job performance and track record win you new contracts and respect now. Seek bigger assign­ments. Show that you won't take "no" for an answer; eventually a business associate will come around. Emphasize mutual benefits. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Make the most of your present job rather than taking a new one. Your productivity rises when you concen­trate on one task at a time. Do not count on your colleagues supporting a bold, new idea. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 It turns into a different story 11 Mother tongues 17 Collegiate goals 18 Enter as a group, with "in" 11 Commercial quotation 20 Actress Swenson 21 Bi-halved 22 Shades 24 Deucy preceder 25 takes without authorization 27 Ballet step 30 Capone's nemesis 
0 
u 
31 "N-?" (Agatha Christie novel) 
32 Forces open 
34 Humankind 
31 Acquires in large 
amounts 37 Court V.I.P.'s, for 
short 
38 X rating? 
39 Elisabeth, e.g.: 
Abbr. 40 Real people 44 Dosimeters 
measure them 46 "The Gypsy" 
painter 47 Heater 48--many 
words 

TONIGHT 
at Acoust.lc 
LA FoRTUNE 
Cafe 
9 PM 
'Til Midn:i 

SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, September 21, 1995 
• INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Carroll poses an early threat to No. I Zahm 
By TIM MCCONN 
SportS Writer 

It may not be the "Game of the Century", but the contest featuring No. 1 Zahm and No. 3 Carroll could be a springboard to success for the winner. Not to mention it should provide a good indication as to just how good these top teams really are. Who is the contender, and who is the pretender? 
Zahm's defense seems second to none in this early part of the inter hall season. Led by Player of the Week Jake Schaller, it possesses everything neces­sary to carry a team to the champi­onship. 
First and foremost, their defense has speed, a lot of it. And when they get to the ball, these guys hit hard and bring the man down. According to Schaller, "We're aggressive and we love to attack the other team's offense." 
It is their ability to create turnovers 
The Morrissey offense will try to get on track after a horrible performance against Flanner 
that places them above the rest. In their opening game, the "Red Swarm" caused Fisher to cough up three fum­bles, one of which was returned for a touchdown by Schaller. Schaller also recorded an interception. 
On the other side of the ball, Zahm's offense may not be as potent as their defensive counterparts, but they cer­tainly get the job done. 
A notable absence from the Zahm offense last Sunday was sophomore Benji Hammond, the quarterback who led Zahm to the championship game last year. His situation leaves some uncer­tainty as to who will be at the helm of the offense this Sunday. 
Last week, quarterback Chris Orr showed he has a good arm and enough speed to run the option effectively. The receivers will need to improve as they dropped a number of passes last week, although Paul Berentini and Mike Bailey 
see IH I page 1 7 



ByJOE CARATO Sports Writer 
After an exciting opening week of last second blocked PATs, missed field goals, thrilling two-minute drills, and defensive stands, the second week of lnterhall football looks to be even more exciting. 
Several top five teams will do battle, while there are several other matchups which could catapult the winner near the top of the Men's Power Poll. 
Among the more intriguing matchups is No. 2 Stanford versus No. 4 Grace. Grace is coming off a huge win over defending Interhall champ Off-Campus. Grace managed to hold off a late 0-C charge and hopes to pull off their sec­ond upset in as many weeks when they battle Stanford on Sunday. 
Grace has shown a terrific attacking defense that caused several key turnovers in their opening victory. The defense also proved itself capable of big plays. In their victory, they blocked a PAT and got a late sack to push 0-C fur­ther back in the waning seconds to force a 39-yard field goal attempt that missed as opposed to a 25 or 30 yarder. Grace will need more pressure like that from their defensive unit if they hope to con­tinue their rise in the Power Polls. 
Grace hopes to move the ball more effectively and with more consistency this week against the untested Stanford defense. This could be a challenge due to the fact that their starting quarter­back will miss this Saturday's game. 
Stanford had a bye last week and is "itching to play" according to captain Chris Pollina. Pollina also mentioned that the extra week of practice is helpful in preparation at the opening of the sea­son. The bye week gave Stanford a chance to scout their opponents last Sunday, and the captain was impressed. 
"We're concerned about their passing game," said Pollina. "They have big 
see MEN'S I page 16
last week. 

Defense will decide Lyons, Pangborn battle 
By TODD FITZPATRICK SportS Writer 
. 

Every women's interhall foot­ball player dreams of running -onto the field at Notre Dame Stadium. Only two teams, how­ever, will earn the right to play in "The House that Rockne Built" at the end of the season. Sunday's game between No.1 Lyons and No. 2 Pangborn could be a preview of this year's final game. This week­
,. 
end's winner will have a defi­nite advantage going into the second half of the season. 
After Pangborn's convincing 18-0 win against Cavanaugh last weekend, Lyons captain Julie Byrd knows how difficult the game will be. 
"They're going to give us a good game," she said. "They're not a team to take lightly." 
Byrd also stresses a strong team defense will be necessary to shut down Pangborn's offen­sive attack. 
Cavanaugh vs. Badin 
The Cavanaugh women hope to improve on last weekend's performance by stopping the big plays. Although their de­fense was consistent against 
see WOMEN'S I page 16 
• SAINT MARY'S VOllEYBAlL 
Belles top Concordia in four 
By KATHLEEN POLICY 
SportS Writer 

Twenty-five minutes before Tuesday night's game, the Saint Mary's volleyball team was still on their bus waiting in traffic going to Concordia University. 
lnspite of this fact, the Belles were still victorious three games to one (4-15,15-6,15­9,15-10). 
The team used the first game of the match as a warm up and then won the next three. 
The traffic had not been an anticipated problem, but the crowd was. Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek told her play­ers "go into the game with blinders on and try to ignore the crowd." 
However due to the Belles' outstanding performance, the noise was not a factor. The only outside concern for the team was their late arrivaL 
"It was tough coming into the game without a warm up. We used the first game to run through the motions of our warm up and then got our rhythm in the second game,'' said senior middle-blocker Sara Stronczek. 
The Belles carried their mo­mentum from the Ohio North­ern Tournament last weekend into this game. 
The confidence they gained from their third place at the tournament helped them greatly. 
"This weekend the players learned what they are capable of, and now they aren't going to accept anything less," said Julie Schroeder-Biek. 

She believed that after the first game, each member of the team settled down into her role and the game began to flow. 
see SMC I page 14 


Football Women's Soccer 

• Pistons finally get their man 
vs. Texas 

at Rutgers September 22, 7:00p.m. 
see page 17

September 23, 11:30 EST 
at Seton Hall September 24, 1:00 p.m. 
Volleyball 

Cross Country 
• Boston clinches AL East tide 
vs. Texas September 22, 8:00p.m. 
at Valparaiso September 23 
vs. Colorado September 23, 7:00p.m. 
see page 15 

SMC Sports 
Men's Soccer 

• Alabama ruling receives criticism 
Soccer vs. Wheaton September 21 
vs. Indiana September 22, 7:30p.m. 
see page 18 

Notre Dame 
Observer 
07251341 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
037870 
Box: 41 
Volume: 27 
Issue: 18 
Day: Wed 
Date : 9/13/1995 12:00:00 AM 
Notes: 
Issue # Missing (may not exist) : 
Issue # Missing (probably not published) : 


Wednesday, September 13, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 18 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Holtz in stable condition following procedure 
Coach spends night in intensive care; doctors report no complications 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
Notre Dame head football coach Lou Holtz successfully underwent major surgery Tuesday morning and is in stable condition at the Mayo Clinic in Hochester. Minn.. 
The operation was performed at Saint Mary's Hospital, which is closely affiliated with the Mayo Clinic. 
"Coach Holtz will spend the night in intensive care," Mayo Clinic spokesman Michael O'Hara said Tuesday. "He should be moved to a regular room Wednesday, and hopefully he'll recover well." 
Holtz was suffering from a compression of the spinal cord in his neck. A disc was bulging into his spinal cord in the middle of his neck, bfltween the C-5 and C-6 vertebrae. 
The disc was removed and replaced with a bone graft. 
"The procedure took over four hours to com­
plete, which is the normal length of time for a 
procedure of this sort," O'Hara continued. "Two 
neurosurgeons from the Mayo Clinic performed 
the operation. It \-\'_ent without complications." 
The condition was discovered when Holtz 
experienced weakness in his legs and hands. He 
was unable run out on the field with the team 
for the Northwestern game on Sept. 2, nor was 
he able to climb the stairs into the locker room. 
He was advised by physicians to have the ·surgery done immediately because the situation 
was determined to be "imminently dangerous," 
according to Dr. James Moriarity, university 
physician. 

The Irish coach will be hospitalized through 
the weekend, and will be restricted to a neck 
collar for at least six weeks. He should, howev­
er, be able to move around starting Wednesday 
afternoon. 

And that will most likely mean some contact 
with the team and interim coach, Bob Davie. 
"As soon as Coach Holtz is out of recovery long 
enough to communicate, there will be constant 
communication," Davie said. "As long as the 
neck brace doesn't cover up his ears and his 
mouth, we'll be talking constantly." 

The Observer/Dave Murphy Irish football coach Lou Holtz begins the road to recovery after the spinal cord surgery that he underwent yesterday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, MN. 
SMC second home to Ireland native 
By JENNIFER LEWIS Assistant Sainr Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame can be considered the second home for Katherine O'Shea. 
The first student from Saint Patrick's College in Maynooth, Ireland, to enroll in a year-long program at Saint Mary's, O'Shea says she feels at home on the two campuses. 
"It has been much easier on me coming from Ireland than any other country," O'Shea said. "I feel at home here." 

Katherine O'Shea, pictured here with roommates, is the first student enrolled at Saint Mary's from Saint Patrick's of Ireland. She feels that coming to the predominantly-Irish community has eased her transition. 
As part of a program that has sent approximately 25 stu­dents to Saint Patrick's for the past 18 years, O'Shea says she is proud to be the first student from Irelami ut Saint Mary's. ''I'm like a guinea pig," O'Shea said. "They are hoping to send one student from Ireland for the next four years." 
O'Shea, a native from New­market County Court, is the youngest of three children, but she is not the first person in her family to spend time in America. With a brother in Boston and an aunt in New Jer­sey. she is fortunate enough to have family with which to spend the Christmas holidays. 
"Not many people in Ireland have heard of Notre Dame," she said. "And if they have, they do not know the Ireland Connection." 
O'Shea has her own Ireland connection at Saint Mary's. Her roommate, Mary Kane, was in Ireland the following year. Al­though the two were not very close friends, they met prior to O'Shea's arrival. 
"It was brilliant having the Ireland students," O'Shea said. "It's like I had a ready made group of friends. They experi­enced my life back home, and they know what I'm talking about." 
Enrolled as a sophomore and double-majoring in history and sociology, O'Shea is currently taking fifteen credit hours, plus working fifteen hours at the li­brary. According to O'Shea, Ireland would not provide on­campus work for students. . "So many people either have been in Ireland or want to go. It's kind of funny that everyone keeps asking me if I know their relatives." 
see IRELAND I page 6 

• HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
Council fixes dance schedule 
By BILL CONNOLLY News Writer 
In a surprising turn of events, members of the Hall Presi­dents' Council learned last night that many hall dance schedules are in conflict with each other. 
Eleven hall dances are cur­rently scheduled to be held on October 6, and eight dances are scheduled to be held on December 8. 
After the dates to the halls' respective dances were called out. many members of the HPC 
see HPC I page 6 

Malloy: Binge drinking a campus problem 
Editor's note: This is the third ofa five-part series exam­ining the use of alcohol on our campuses. 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
It 's an all too familiar scene at the end of an SYR: men and women returning home after an evening of dancing and drink­ing, many inebriated, some of legal age, most not. For many it's a good time, but the ques­tion must be asked: Does Notre D.ame have a problem with alcohol? 
According to University President Father Edward Malloy. when it comes to binge drinking, the answer is yes. 
"The abuse of alcohol is irre­sponsible," Malloy said. "It's simply unacceptable. We have to be concerned about the stu­dents' health and well-being." 
Nationally, 42% of all college students engage in binge drink­ing-defined as five or more drinks in one sitting. This find­ing is based on a June 1994 study by the Commission on Substance Abuse at Colleges and Universities, a commission chaired by Malloy and orga­nized under the direction of the Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse (CASA) at Columbia University. 
The study also revealed that one in three of all college stu­dents drinks to get drunk. At Notre Dame, 58% drink to get drunk, according to an informal poll of 200 students recently conducted by The Observer. 
While a significant percent­age of students -including those underage -at Notre Dame drink in moderation, the University chooses to focus more on those who abuse alco­hol by binge drinking, accord­ing to Malloy. 
"I'm not a prohibitionist. The issue is whether you drink to get drunk," he said. "A peer culture exists that promotes too much abuse of alcohol, and that needs to be corrected." 
The consequences of binge 
Part 3 of 5 
Under the Dome &Under the Influence 

drinking are well-documented. According to the CASA report headed by Malloy, 60% of col­lege women nationwide who were diagnosed with a sexually transmitted disease were drunk at the time of infection. Across the country, 95% of violent crime on campuses and 40% of all academic problems are al­cohol-related. 
Understanding the depth of the problem may be difficult when relying solely on the pic­ture painted by statistics, but a report released last month by the Harvard School of Public Health reveals a new look on binge drinking. 
The phenomenon, known as "secondhand binge effects," refers to the problems that binge drinkers create for stu­dents who do not drink, includ­ing physical assault, sexual harrassment, and impaired sleep and study time for stu­dents who have to care for roommates and friends who have over-indulged. 
"These problems threaten the quality and safety of the college experience for millions of non­hinging students," Henry Wechsler. of Harvard, wrote for the report. 
Such a sentiment is echoed more closely to home. 
"If we're worried about the quality of life for our students here at Notre Dame, then our tolerance for alcohol abuse must be lowered," Malloy said. 
So how should Notre Dame go about reducing the reliance on alcohol and the prevalence of binge drinking on campus? According to Malloy, the solu­tion should start with the stu­dents, and specifically with stu­dent government and campus media. 
"If student government took on the issue and made evidence (of the consequences of binge drinking) available, it could cre­ate a better environment for the students," Malloy said. "There is no replacement for peer efforts to make a smarter, healthier environment." 
The CASA report provides a list of recommendations that students should consider when tackling the problem of alcohol abuse. Among the recommen­dations are: 
.I 

• Challenging existing norms that push alcohol as the only I way to have fun and question­ing authorities like the alcohol t industry that try to sell the idea •
. 
I

that alcohol is the only way to be social. 
• 
Taking responsibility for one's behavior and really think­ing about why one drinks. 

• 
Getting involved in peer counseling and support groups, and taking part in voluntary programs like AIDS or rape cri­sis centers, Big Brothers/Big Sisters programs, political 


see BINGE/ page 6 page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 13, 1995 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
Credit Card-Catastrophe #121 
My roommates and I got robbed by the best dressed student on campus. 
When I realized my credit card was miss­ing, I naturally thought I had misplaced it. I could have sworn it was in my wallet but noticed it's absence before I filled my car up with gas. Not to worry, the woman at the Amoco station was rather nice about it. She let me borrow her jump suit, so my clothes did not get dirty while I worked in the full service station for the rest of the afternoon in order to pay off my bUl. 
I dreaded the hassle of calling my mother, canceling my Visa, waiting for a new card, etc., only to have my original card show up the following day. (Rank yet another irre­sponsible mishap for Miss Jen Lewis.) Enraged by my own carelessness, I proceed­ed to go home and complain to my room­mates. Could you imagine my surprise, as I walked home from the gas station to find my roommate bawling on the phone with, yes, the Visa company. 
I envisioned a big burly man in a ski mask, tip-toeing through my apartment, browsing in my panty drawer, sifting through my wal­let, and pocketing my Visa Gold. Yes, I felt violated.· If this maniac got into our apart­ment once, who was to say he would not strike again? I frantically checked my belongings, nothing else was out of place. 
I grabbed the phone, it was my turn to talk 
to Mr. Visa Man. He informed me that the 
bandit made charges at Polo, J-Crew, 
Tommy Hilfiger, and Nautica, all convenient­
ly located at the Michigan City outlet mall, 
only 30 miles outside of campus. 
"You must have known the person," the 
man's voice echoed in my head. "All three of 
your cards were used in the same places." 
The vision of the big burly man shrunk 
down to a skinny figure in plaid pants, 
styling glasses, and a jean shirt, wrapped 
tightly around the waist. What kind of hard 
core criminal would charge 300 dollars at 
the Polo outlet? I can not even afford socks 
there. 
After thinking about it for a couple of days, 
I suddenly became overwhelmed with laugh­
ter. What a joke? Don't they check the sig­
natures on the back of the cards anymore? 
Somebody just had a 3,000 dollar shopping 
spree on me and my roommates. Not only 
did they steal my card, but they went to 
three of iny favorite stores, and now, I have 
to make cookies in the dinning hall for an 
entire semester to pay it off. 
This person obviously had to be intelligent 
because they knew exactly what they were 
doing. After we had reported the cards 
stolen, the criminal tried to charge a meal at 
a near by restaurant. They must have had a 
trustworthy face because the woman gave 
the card back to them, and said, ''I'm sorry, 
there must be something wrong with the 
machine." I got her fired. 

Luckily since our stories matched we do 
not have to pay for the stolen items, we 
hope. I am not pointing any fingers, but the 
least they could have done was lend me a 
shirt? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

• lODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Mike O'Hara  
Mark Huffman  Production  
Sports  Kristi Kolski  
Joe Villinski  Allison Fashek  
Mike Day  Kira Hutchinson  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Zoe Marin  Brandon Candura  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Wednesday, Sept. 13 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 13. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ ,--r-'\
H L Ea fSSI l:nl 0 IZ] 8 ~ L....! ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-S10RMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. Cl.OUDY CLOUDY 
Via Msoclated Prt188 

Atlanta 86 70 Dallas 88 64 New Orleans 90 72 Baltimore 86 68 Denver 79 49 New York 82 70 Boston 79 68 Los Angeles 95 69 Philadelphia 85 69 Chicago 74 59 Miami 89 78 Phoenix 104 79 
Via AssoclaiBd Press GraphtcsNst 
C 1995 AccuWeather. Inc. 

Columbus 80 64 Minneapolis 68 50 St. Louis 82 63 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Man blows up car in mall parking lot, killing his family 

ESSEX, Md. 

Betty Louise Clark had agreed to meet her estranged husband one last time: He said they'd take her three children shopping for school clothes and talk. 
A day later, all that was left of Mark Clark's station wagon was a crumple'd, burned-out shell in the parking lot of a strip mall in subur­ban Baltimore. 
Police believe Clark packed his car with dynamite and blew up his family and himself, shaking the neighborhood and send­ing debris and body parts raining down blocks away. The glove compartment was found half a mile from Monday's blast. 
The Clarks, their 4-year-old daughter, Krysta Clark, and Mrs. Clark's other children, Malissa Ray, 11, and Ri­cardo Valdez, 6, all died. 
Neighbors said Tuesday that Clark, 32, had threatened to kill himself and his family Sunday and Monday. "We all just thought he was blowing hot air," said Pamela Pierce, who lived upstairs from Mrs. Clark. 
Mrs. Clark, 32, moved in with her sister in Essex earli­er this year. She had a new boyfriend and was studying to be a medical secretary. 
Neighbors saw Clark talking to himself outside the building when he visited his estranged wife on Sunday. 
He also visited on Monday. 
"When I asked what he was talk­
ing about, he said, 'You'll find out 
soon,"' said Mary Thomas, another 
upstairs neighbor. 
"Sunday and yesterday he went 
out to the car a thousand times 
looking in the car, looking in the 
trunk. Last night when we saw the 
wreck on the TV news we put two 
and two together," Thomas said. 
Mark Edward Weitzel, 30, who 

had been dating Mrs. Clark since May, said she had agreed to meet with her husband one last time to take the children shopping. He picked them up from Weitzel's house. 
"We knew he was unstable," Weitzel said. "But we didn't think he would actually do something like this. Yesterday I had a family-a girlfriend and three kids. Now I have nothing." 
"You hope that if they're having these problems that they would call us. That's what make it so sad since there was no hope of intervention," said Capt. Brian Uppercue, a police spokesman. 
Clark's last known address was in Cumberland. Police believe he had been supporting himself doing odd jobs in construction and plumbing. 
Police suspect a form of dynamite called slurry ripped apart the 1987 Ford Taurus wagon. 
Packwood diaries will be published 
WASHINGTON 
Americans will soon be able to read the 10,145 pages that led to the down­fall of Sen. Bob Packwood. Times Books said it will publish 100,000 copies of a $10 paperback, "The Packwood Report," in time to reach stores next week. The book will con­tain the full text of documents made public by the Senate Ethics Committee 

last Thursday, just hours before Packwood, R-Ore., announced his decision to resign rather than face a Senate vote of expulsion. The documents, including Packwood's diaries and sworn statements from his accusers, offer a picture of a man compulsively seeking sexual favors from women subordinates, eliciting largesse from lobbyists, abusing alcohol and, when the investigation of his behavior was under way, altering the diaries before giving them to authorities. Helen Dewar, a reporter who covers Congress for The Washington Post, wrote the foreword to the book. 
Mob pleads guilty to gaming charges 
NEW ORLEANS 
Five alleged leaders and associates of the Marcello or­ganized crime family pleaded guilty to scheming to infil­trate and skim profits from Louisiana's video poker industry. The pleas brought to 14 the number of people who have admitted in federal court to defrauding Bally Gaming Inc., a slot machine manufacturer, primarily through two Louisiana companies labeled by prosecutors as mob fronts. Pleading guilty to a single count of racke­teering conspiracy were: Anthony Carollo, named by prosecutors as the boss of the New Orleans-based Marcello family; Frank J. Gagliano Sr., identified by pros­ecutors as the family's underboss, or second in com­mand; Joseph Gagliano, Gagliano's son; and alleged asso­ciates Felix Riggio III and Cade Farber. All face up to 20 years in prison and $250,000 fines. The defendants were accused by a grand jury in May 1994 of using Worldwide Gaming of Louisiana, Louisiana Route Operators and two other companies to distribute video poker machines and siphon off profits between 1991 and 1994. 



Jury awards ·$15 million to family 
BAY MINEETE, Ala. 

A jury ordered Rheem Manufacturing Co. to pay $15 million to the family of a 2-year-old boy who was burned in a fire ignited when other children spilled gasoline near a Rheem water heater. The Circuit Court jury agreed on Friday that the pilot light was so close to the ground it easily ignited the fumes. The panel awarded $3 million in compensatory damages and $12 million in punitive damages over Andrew Scott's severe burns to his legs, buttocks, back and arm in the 1991 fire at his home. The boy had been playing near the water heater in a utility room off the back porch. Joseph "Buddy" Brown Jr., an attorney for the Scotts, said the case pointed out how dangerous such water heaters can be. The New York manufacturer will appeal. "It's most unfortunate that Andrew Scott was injured, but that accident was not caused by the water heater," said Andrew Clausen, a lawyer for Rheem. "It was caused by an open can of gasoline which was left on the porch while a 2-year-old child was playing unsupervised." 
Rare lizard devours pink flamingo 
APPLE VALLEY, Minn. 

Maureen, a Komodo dragon at the Minnesota Zoo, kept turning up her nose at the white rats she was offered. But when a pink flamingo made the mistake of dropping in, Maureen found it irresistible. One leg and some pink feathers were all that was left. At least Maureen is eat­ing, zoo officials said Monday. She had been finicky about the white rats, quail and chicken on her menu. "This was a gourmet meal for her," said zoo spokes'Yoman Jackie Northard. Maureen and Doni -two 70-pound Komodo dragons from Indonesia -are the zoo's star attractions. Doni has been eating anything put in front of him since the lizards arrived in July. The flamingo, which was in an adjacent exhibit, was devoured Friday night or Saturday morning. "Normally they don't fly out of the exhibit," Northard said. "Once or twice a year, one will fly out, and we know that it's time to clip their feath­ers again. They've never become dinner before." Komodo dragons, an endangered species, can grow up to 10 feet long and weigh 300 pounds. 
---·----------~--~------­
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Let's find everbody a job 
Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Dian Murray, gives some opening remarks at the Arts and Letters Placement Night last night. 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications: 
Photo Editor 
Please submit a one page statement of intent and resume to John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, by Wednesday, September 13. Call 1-4542 with any questions. 
Bodner: Science students beware 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
Students in science research and laboratories must beware of self-deception, fraud and embellishment, according to Purdue University Professor George Bodner. 
Tuesday night, Bodner spoke with 120 Saint Mary's students and American Chemical Society members about ethical conduct in science. 
Tho lecture, sponsored by the St. Joseph Valley section of the American Chemical Society, aimed to provide students with understanding of ethics in that can be directly applied in col­lege and professional work. 
"I hope they gained an inter­est of how to do better science, by understanding the pitfalls of bad science," said Deborah McCarthy, Saint Mary's assis­tant professor of chemistry and ACS president-elect. 
While Bodner discussed vari­ous forms of unethical conduct throughout history, he focused on the easy trap of self decep­tion, where "one or more scien­tists fall into the trap of seeing what they wanted, expected, or hope to see, altering data and conclusions," he said. 
"The lecture taught me that I need to really pay attention and see it for what's really there, and not what I want to see," said freshman chemistry major 
• SECURITY BEAT 
FRI., SEPT. 8th 
for speeding on Juniper Road. 
12:57 p.m. A Grace Hall resident re-5:35 a.m. A South bend resident was ported the theft of both outside mirrors cited lor speeding on US31. from his vehicle while parked in t 002 2:37 p.m. Security and Notre dame Fire Lot. /i<• '"' .QE!pl. responded to a fire at Grace Hall. · 
p;; Ttiere was minor. damage and no Injuries 
4:31 p.m. A University employee was reported. transported to St. Joseph's Medical Can· ~. :!9/t~~ord Hall resident was transported
ter for treatment of bums. 
7:35 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported n:\,, l? St. Joseph's Medical Center treat· the theft of his license plate frotn his vehl-:m;;,,, ~:.~t of a sports injury. cle while parked in the 002 Lot. 
10:26 p.m. A Lyons Hall resident was SUN., SEPT. 10th transported by Security to St. Joseph 3i'o3 p.m. An off-campus student re· Medical Center for treatment of Injuries ported the theft ot his bicycle carrier from sustained durlhg a fait , :;jj~f!'' his vehicle while parked In the C01 Lot. 
6:56 p.m. A Knott Hall resident reported
SAT., SEPT. 9th 
the theft of her wallet from Fisher Hall.
1:25 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resident was 

Authorities discover seven bodies 
Associated Press 
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico 

Seven women -at least four of whom looked alike and were raped and strangled -have been found dumped in the desert since Aug. 19, and au­thorities are investigating whether a serial killer is re­sponsible. 
"That's still speculation," State Judicial Police spokesman Ernesto Garcia said Monday. "We can't determine if it's one person." 
The first victim found was Elizabeth Castro Garcia, thought to have been 15 to 17. Her body was discovered on uninhabited land near the city's airport. 
Rachelle Hall. 
Escaping from current hot topics in science ethics, Bodner discussed unethical behavior throughout history which has affected all scientists -from stu­dents to published professionals. 
"There's nothing new about unethical behavior in science," Bodner said. 
Some students responded to Bodner's lecture, saying that they learned not only to ques­tion their own conclusions, but to question the credibility of sources. 
"You shouldn't take every­thing at face value just because it was written by a well-known scientist," said freshman biolo­gy major Jenny Lemler. 
SportsChannel to spotlight ND race car 
Special to The Observer 
The trials and tribulations of the University of Notre Dame's electrically powered Indy-style race car will be featured in an upcoming program on SportsChannel. 
Scheduled for 2 p.m. Sept­meber 21, the program focuses on the 12 universities that par­ticipated in the second annual Cleveland Electric Formula Classic on July 22. The hour­long program will be rebroad­cast at 11 a.m. October 5; 4 
p.m. October 6; and 1 p.m. Oc­tober 8. (For TCI cable view­ers, SportChannels airs locally on Channel 22) 
The race in Cleveland was a low point in the season for the Irish Racing Team. After win­ning the inaugural event in 1994, Notre Dame experienced electrical problems during qualifying for this year's race and was unable to compete. SportsChannel chronicles the team's prerace activities and follows up with a report on the problems encountered on race day.Notre Dame came back to end the season August 17 with a fourth-place finish at the Electricore Formula Lightning race in lndianapolis.The two­year old electric car has been designed and developed by undergraduate students in Notre Dame's College of Engineering under the direc­tion of William Berry, associate chair and professor of electri­cal engineering. 

ACCOUNTING CAREERS NIGHT THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 6:00-9:00 P.M. JACC MONOGRAM ROOM IRMS IN ATTENDENCE AMOCO EDS AMWAY ERNST & YOUNG ARTHUR ANDERSEN GENERAL ELECTRIC BAXTER KPMG PEAT MARWICK BOO SIEDMAN NATIONS BANK CARGILL NATIONAL FUTURES COOPERS & LYBRAND ASSOCIATION CROWE CHIZEK PRICE WATERHOUSE CS FIRST BOSTON PROCTER & GAMBLE DELOITTE & TOUCHE STATE FARM Sponsored by Beta Alpha Psi Any Questions, call Eric Lorge@ 232-2954  

Withoutyou Campus Ministry doesn't have a prayer! This Is Your Last Chance! ! Students, Faculty, and Staff are invited and encouraged to compose a personal prayer for a new Notre Dame Campus Book of Prayers to be publ ished this year. We would like original prayers that reflect daily and seasonal life on campus; prayers that deal with personal concerns, places, events, issues, relationships, etc. that reflect one's life and experience at Notre Dame. Prayers are to be submitted no later than November 1, 1995 and can be sent to Campus Ministry -Badin Hall C/0 Prayer Book Team.  

TASTE OF INDIA 
Newly Opened Indian Restaurant! 
Vegetarian and Non-Vegetarian Indian Cuisine 
Lunch Buffet I lam -3 pm $4.95 all you can eat! Dinner 5-9 pm daily Monday-Thursday Open'tilSunsetFriday Closed Saturday 
For Large Group Reservations Call (616) 471 5058 
8938 US Highway 31 Berrien Springs, MI 
(Across from Andrews University) 

Wednesday, September 13,1995 

page4 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
The Best Way To Save Money On Stuff 
(Other Than Borrowing Your Roommate's). 
Roommates tend to get weird when you borrow their stuff. (They're funny 
like that.) Better to get yourself a MasterCard® card. Then 
you could use it to buy the things you really want. 
And with these College MasterValues® coupons, you'll save up to 40%. And until 
you get your own place, it's the smartest thing you can do. Roommates are weird 
enough as it is. MasterCard. It~ more than a credit card. It~ smart money.TM 


r------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------r------------------------------1 
JCPenne>' : T W E E D 5 : 
OpticaiCente 1 SAVE $10 ON Jl RT(~~~~Y.SD 1 JOIN AND SAVE $45 
50% OFF ANY : WOMEN'S APPAREL 1 EYEGLASS FRAME : Simplicity, comfort and style ... that's Tweeds. SAVE UP TO $140 Join for only $15, instead of the regular $60 annual 1 


Save on all Tweeds clothing and accessories. Call membership. Then enjoy FREE lifi: tickets and savings Save 50% on absolutely every eyeglass frame plus... 
I 1-800-999-7997 and receive a FREE catalog with Your college ring, from ArtCarved, is a keepsake up to 50% on lift tickets, resort lodging and dining, bonus discount of $20 on our best lenses. Sale : our latest styles. Place your order and save $10 on you'll always treasure. Save $35 on 10K gold, $70 etc., at top resorts E~t and West. A great gift for includes any eyeglass frame in stock when you pur­1 any purchase of $50 or more when you use your on 14K gold or $140 on 18K gold. Call skiers/snowboarders. Call 1-BOO-B00-2SKI (2754) to chase a comiete pair of eyeglasses and use your 1 MasterCard"' Card and mention the COLLEGE 1-800-952-7002 for more details. Mention join or for details and specials in your favorite areas MasterCard Card. Lens discount applies to our best : MasterValues"' offer #C3WA. offer #9501. and mention offer #15MCSKI. Plus look for us on the lenses. See optician for details. Coupon required. 
I I internet at URL http://www.skicard.com/skicard Offer and c~upon valid 8/15~5 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only on I Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid only I Offer valid 8/15195 to 12/31/95. Offer vali~ only on purchases using purchasei u~mg a MasterCard Card. Surrender diD) I on purchases using a ~terCarde Card and wbedllEGE: I a MasterCard~~' Card and when offer #9501 1s f'\1 1 u:-r Olfer valid 8/15/95 ro 1.2/31/95. Olfer valid onlydOll..EGE coupon at arne ofpurclwe. ~oupo~ has no cash • I the COLLEGE MasterValuesCI offer #C3WA is ) I mentioned. Coupon 1~y not bt' ~o~bined wilh dULU-\JC. on purchases using aMasterCard~' Card and when .)value, and_m..ay not be com~med wnh any . . 6-;.. I mentioned Offer void where prohibited, taxed, ~ I any o~er coupon or ~~ount. ~hippmg and ~) the # 15MCSKI is menooned. Deui.ls on . . o-. • 
co~pon, discount, _Y~ue Right pack.a~ or I or_ restricted. Coupon may not be combined ~ I handling are extra. ~ln;ut one discou~t per wg skier discounts listed in 95/96 "Savings Guide" I vuton c~~e plan. Lut~t one _coupon per p~r~hase. 'AA---::-. ~.~ I wtth any other coupon or discount. Shipping and "AA-..:::-,·;"L~ I . purchase. Some restnctlons apply. Vmd where "AA-~ .7i: ...L" 
I ______________________________ J
See opac1an for det:uls. Vo1d where proh1bned. ·r~ I handling arc ex.tn.. t.imit one discount per purchase. '"IUSlef'Va~~ I prohibited. '"~ ~~~~e! t:.~~~;~~!:~fd ~~~~: :!h~bft~d. ~~ 
L------------------------------~-------------------------------~------------------------------­
: : TIMI WARNIR : 
MOTOPHOTO

l THEWALJJSTREETJOURNAL. l 1/~u~~ l 
50% OFF FILM PROCESSING
: 49% OFF A SPECIAL : GET ONE VIDEO FREE 1 
SAVE $3 OFF A CD 

Hold on to the good times and your money, too.
: 12-WEEK SUBSCRIPTION : WHEN YOU BUY THREE
Here's music to your ears ... save $3 on one regu­Take 50% off the regular price of processing and 
1 

Invest in your future and stay on top of current Video values just for you! Enjoy a full selection of
larly priced Compact Disc at $6.99 or more when printing on the first set of prints at MotoPhoto, 
you use your MasterCard"' Card. Limit two $3 : developments with The Wall Street journal. For top-quality videos at discount prices. All videos when you use your MasterCard"' Card. Call 
I a limited time only, use your MasterCard"' Card are priced at $9.95 or less and are 100% satisfaction 
discounts per coupon, per purchase. Limit one $3 1-800-733-6686 for the location nearest you. 
discount per box set purchase. Offer Not Valid : and pay just $23 for a 12-week subscription guaranteed. Act now and get one video FREE 
Limit 1. Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon.Without This Coupon. COUPON #336 
1 to the nation's leading business publication. when you buy three and use your MasterCard"' 1 To take advantage of this spec1·a1 offier, call Card. Calll-800-551-0262 for your FREE cata­
1 1 d k c h COLLEGE M V 1 Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 to 12131195. Cash redemption value
Offer and coupon valid 8/!5/95ro 12131/95. Offer I 1-800-348-3555 and please refer to source og an as 10r t e aster a ues"' 1120¢ Offer valid only on purchases using aM..rerCud• Card. Surrend« valid only on purcluse> usmg • M..rerC.r~ Card. I key 75NY. offer #1081-5999. coupon 01 time of purchase. Lmur one coupon per purclwe DnnorSurrender coupon at orne ofpurclwc Coupon I Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95 Offer valid onlydOll..EGE be combaned wtth any other offen or discounts
has no cash redempaon value Offer voad where 

(of) I Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31195. Offer valid (of) on purchases uStng aMasterCard* Card and when ) MotoPhoto Club Memben are enaded to take c.;e)
prohibtted, taxed or restncted Coupon nuy not I only on purchases usmg aMasterCarde Card ~ the COLLEGE MasterVaJuesCI offer #1081-5999 ~ 10% off the coupon pnce. Offer valid on C-41 • 0 ,be combmed wtth any other discount. DISCount · I and when source key 75NY 1s mennoned ~ IS mentioned Offer may not be combmed wtth ~ process, 35 mm 6lm., and standard stze pnnts
AA·~~
nor to exceed $6 per coupon Coupon nor I Lmut one subscnpoon &count per penon. ~lues-any other offer or discount Offer valid for US. "AA-~. ~\ue') only Offer valid at parac1paung stores only "AA-= • ~lueS'
valid on sale merchandise. ""IQSlefW I V01d where prohib1ted rwdents only V01d where proh1bued '"ICGlef'Va V01d where prohib1ted '"ldSIEfVa 
~----------~-----------l-------------------------------T---------~if8~~~~~~~---------~---tiiE-itliiliiiiEIIIIIJiiiE;--, 
1

80XOffiRE SAVE 20010 for1YurdoW6 SAVE 15% ON YOUR NEXT 
COUJMBIA I 7C PURCHASE OF $75 OR MORE 
A Division ofSony Music Enreruinmenr.lnc. : Run into Herman's and save. Take 20% off your SAVE 40% ON WINDOWS Shopping is easy at America's premier specialty SAVE 25% : next purchase of regular priced merchandise when W 0 RD PROCESSOR retailer of gift, fitness, recreational, travel, apparel 

Save 25% off the regular price of the Aerosmith 1 you use your MasterCard" Card. Find everything WordExpress makes it easy to create great looking and more. Save 15% on a purchase of$75 or more collection, featuring all the original Columbia 1 yo d t H ' W Ar S rts" Offi h h t f 75 t I ti
u nee a erman s... e e po . er reports, term papers, essays and more. Top of the w en you s op a any o our sore oca ons or 
albums. BOX OF FIRE includes a previously-'1 excludes certa1·n merchand1"se. Coupon Requ1"red. b ·1 d Call1 BOO 344 4444 24 h 
1 line feature set, fast and easy to use. Includes p. rofes-Y mal or er. ---• ours a
unreleased, S-track bonus disc ofAero-rarities and 1 d 7 da k fi d h
Offer and coupon valid 8115/95 ro 12/31195 Offer valid only on pur-sionally designed Resume Teml'lates. Only $29.95 ay, ys a wee , to n t e store nearest you or 
hard-to-find gems including "Subway•: "Circle Jerk" chases usmg aM..rerCard"' Card. Surrender coupon ar rune of purclwe. o fc r a FREE catalog c R · d Ofii d 
and more! Order now and get 12 CDs for $89.99. Olfer exdud" Cro,.Walk Plu.s. Cmlio-Glide, all golfballs, selecr p<o when you use your MasterCard Card and mention ~d 8/15/95r 12/31/95. o~upo~d e~rre . e~an ~~i'::';; 
Call 1-800-322-3412 and ask for the COLLEGE dubs, select Pnnce, Wilson. Head. Pro-Ke":nex and Eltrelon rockers. offer WXO-MC. To order, call 1-800-998-4555. 1 ~asrerCard"' c:d. There ,;..e ai{O::red ~u~b~~ ~r:~e.::o wluch rhos 
sel~ct Ntke and Reebok. Presage product, Fila•. ~~va, Convene .LJ., Visit Us On The World Wide Web At I offer doe~ not apply. May not be combined with Frequent BuyersTW
MasterValuese Offer. Olfer valid 8/15/95ro 12/31/95. Olfer As1cs. 2001 and ~oll~rbl.ade foof':Year, Team_Dlvu1on merchandise, h . . I Program, Price Matching Policy, auction purchases, or other discounts l
valid only on purchases wing aMasterCardCI Card hunu.ng and fishing license!., equlpmcnt setvlc~(ii) ttp./I delta.com/nucrov/home ' or promotions Not valid on purchase ofgift certi..6cat(ij
(fi
and when the COLLEGE ~terVaJues* offer homedeliveryandiPftcerti.ficates..Offernuy • Offer valid 8/15/95 ~o 12131/95. Offer valid I oronprevio~purch.asc:s. The discount is applicable
is mentioned. Otfer nuy not be combined not be combmed With any other discount . only on purchases wmg aMasterCardCI Card I to and tbe minimum purchase based on currcm .) 1 
wtth any other discount. Shipping and handling · · · • or promotion. Limit one coupon per ·• ··· and when offer WXO-MC is mentioned. I m~chandise prices only and excludes tax · · or-.· '' 1 
$3.50 per purclwe. Limir one di><:ounr per curchase. Coupon valid at any Hemun's ~\ues-Shipping and hlndling are additional. Limit I shipping and tax on shiPping Void wher: "AA-~. -;-• 1
AA~.0 1 
purdwe. Sai<S tax applicable. Void when: prohibir.d. '"'<l:oli!!Vci!U'O-' _ ~c~ti~n:_s:_c_#~5.: ':_o~~~r:p_:o~i~t~·-_____________ ~~ ~s,:o~n~p:C!:u~c:as~. ~~d-w~e~ !r':hi~i~d.:_ _________ l. _P.!:_O~~tc;:t. ______ ~qs_C9J?.E~ 1:_ ___ ~--~\~ __ J 
0 1995 MosterCord lntemationallncorporottd 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Puppy Love! 
Senior Kristy Zloch spends some precious time in the sun with black labrador retriever, Conrad. 
Register in Advance at RecSports l'he fee is $8.00 and Space is Limited Helmets are Required Depart Library Circle at 10:00 Return to Library Circle at 5:00 
R--~ 
Students, faculty 'act' together 
By KARA PAVLIK 
News Writer 
When it comes to campus productions, most people ex­pect the professors to be along the sidelines. 
This is not the case at Saint Mary's, where senior Kathryn O'Donnell is performing with Assistant Professor of Theater Katie Sullivan, in Jean Genet's play "The Maids" opening Thursday at Saint Mary's Club­house. 
The result is a professor "co­directing and co-designing a play with a student," Sullivan said. 
"The Maids" is the outgrowth of a student-faculty partner­ship, known as the Student In­dependent Study and Research (SISTAR) program, where a faculty member and a student partner receive a stipend to support study in the summer. 
The program is designed for a professor to engage in a high level of cooperative learning with a student. In this case, 0'­Donnell and Sullivan re­searched and are now perform­ing a play. 
"The role we played in doing this project have not been that of professor and student. It was more like senior faculty mem­ber with junior faculty mem­ber," Sullivan said. Thus, the faculty member is expected to benefit from the project as much as the student. 
"We chose to do 'The Maids' because it was a stretch for both me and her," O'Donnell said. "The play is not done in a realistic style, so it took us away from natural acting." 
"The Maids" is based on a true life story of the Papin sis­ters in LeMans, France during the 1930s. Genet wrote the play as part of the French exis­tentialist movement, a period of time associated with philoso­pher/playwright Albert Camus and Jean-Paul Sartre. 
According to O'Donnell, Genet loved to reveal the illusions of theater, so the audience should expect to be shocked and sur­prised. 
"The play is very ritualistic. It deals with class and social is­sues, so I encourage people to come to this with an open mind," O'Donnell said. 
Although O'Donnell and Sulli­van ~o the majority of the act-
Prep school teacher charged for misconduct 
By RICHARD LORANT 
Associated Press 
ANDOVER, Mass. 

The photos in the Phillips Academy yearbooks show him sitting at his desk or lecturing in a striped tie. He stands by a motorcycle in one, strums a guitar in another. 
Over the years, the hair grows gray, the face lined, but the story is the same: Here is David Cobb, department head, respected colleague, admired mentor, shaper of character ­Teacher. 
Now a new portrait of Cobb is emerging: a mug shot of a man arrested at his Gilford, N.H., summer home Aug. 23 on charges of trying to lure teenagers into his car. Police said he had pictures of naked adults and children in his knapsack. 
As teachers and students re­turned for the start of classes on Wednesday at the exclusive prep school, Cobb was not on 
"Ihad agoodtime tonjght... letSdoIt~ sometime. 111Call yoU' 
(yeah, right) 
Sound familiar? Tired of the same old dates with the same old endings? Now it doesn't have to be that way. The answer is Creative Dating. 
Creative Dating is a high-energy, audience-partic­ipation workshop, in which our dynamic presenters will expand your dating horizons. 
During this interactive session, you'll discover over 250 new ideas for dates that are fun, cheap and safe, and a new feeling of confidence in relation­ships. 
Creative Dating entertains as it educates-it pro­vides fr.esh, positive, upbeat, alternative dating ideas, while helping students deal with today's issues. 
Don't just settle for another predictable date! 

Date: Wed, Sept 13 Time; 8:00 pm Place: LaFortune Ballroom Sponsor: Student Activities 
ing, local actress Melissa Manier has been hired for a minor roll. But the real inten­sity of the play comes from the two main characters, Sullivan said. 
"This play has two very pro­found female parts. We'd never pick this show for the main­stage season because it is odd, yet the play is very important in terms of the world of theater." 
Patrick White, SISTAR coor­dinator, said the play was se­lected by the SISTAR committee because it offered diversity to Saint Mary's theatrical produc­tions. He added it would be dif­ficult for a student or a profes­sor to concentrate on a project of this complexity during the academic year. 
"SISTAR gives a student a chance to do her most mature work at Saint Mary's. It gives a student a taste of graduate work," White said. 
"The Maids" will play at Saint Mary's Clubhouse September 14 through 16 beginning at 8 
p.m. Although admission is free, seating is limited. A dis­cussion with the actors will proceed each show. 
the school's campus -training ground of prominent Ameri­cans from Oliver Wendell Holmes to former President Bush -for the first time since 1968. 
Those who knew Cobb, 59, wondered if they could have been working with a stranger for almost three decades. 
''I'm floored," said Joseph Wennik, a former teacher of German who is the academy's director of alumni affairs. "It just doesn't make any sense." 
The Teacher 
It wasn't just his BMW motor­cycle and cowboy boots, or that he sometimes dressed up like the characters in books his class was reading. 
David Cobb knew how to teach. 
Students said he made so many handwritten comments on papers it sometimes seemed he spent more time on them than they had. 
His colleagues looked to him for inspiration, and the school made him head of the English department for a five-year term in 1990. 
Andover students rearranged their schedules to take his courses. 
"You'd hear a lot of students say you haven't experienced Andover until you've had Mr. Cobb for a teacher," said Bobby Moss, a senior who took his Shakespeare course last year. 
•lilt 1.1111. S1i111' T-Uii, 3:15,5:10,7:35,1:45 
•Ant II Iii ArtWI (PG) 1:ZO, t:ao, 5:35, 7:48, 1:60 •llll 11.-(PG) 1:45,4:15, 7:11, 1:48 
•Cillllll (PG-13) 715,1:35 •lllllllbyllttn c~ IPG>1:3o, t35, uti 
•A 
Wll IIlli Clllll (PG-13) 1:81,:t1D,5:48,7:55,10:10 

•Ln 
DIIUIIIIooS (H) !:08,4:30,7:00,1:30 ~ 1111111 (G) 1:Dii,3:)0,5:15,1:2D,I:!O • ~ Jliyll 111111 HyE{PG·13l 1:15,3:15,5:ZD,7:311,8:65 


·•--(H) 1:00,10:20 • llllllrwlll:tiiiKPG·13l 1:35,3:41i,5:41i •lkllir Slaii2(R) 1:10.3:!5.5:30, 7:60,10:00 
$1 7:1 All SEATS ll~fORE b P1.1 
• flO PASSE~ ~LJI>ln~t.l'tRj f.C.CEPTEO 


-------------~­
page 6 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
were frustrated with the appar­ent inefficiency of the Council in this matter. However, HPC Co­Chairpersons Kristin Beary and Matt Schlatter made some valu­able suggestions to help restore order. 
The dates were selected by each hall without the advice of the HPC as a whole. Beary and Schlatter had suggested a list where each hall could select three possible dates for each SYR and formal. However, this plan was rejected due to com­plications with the schedules of resident assistants, among vari­ous other reasons. 
Therefore, each hall's co­presidents scheduled their own dates for dances as they have done in past years, bearing in mind that they could not have a dance on a football weekend without the agreement of their hall's rector. 
The current schedule pre­sents many problems. Due to the conflict in dates, most halls will not be able to have the re­quired 70 percent of their hall at their SYR's. Five SYR's are scheduled for October 6, four are scheduled for October 7, and three are scheduled for De­cember 2. 
Beary and Schlatter asked each hall to call them immedi­ately with any schedule changes. They also stated that if the HPC is to organize dances next semester, a new format should be used. 
The HPC discussed other items on their agenda, includ­ing an announcement by Stu­dent Body Vice President Den-
Ireland 
continued from page 1 
In Ireland, the final exam is worth 80 percent of one's grade, while papers and home­work only make up the other 20· percent. 
Comparing her classes in Ireland -which are smaller, put more stress on attendance nis McCarthy that the student government will be sponsoring a picnic this Friday from 4:30-7 
p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. Three student bands will per­form at the picnic. 
McCarthy also discussed the new Football Ticket Exchange Program which allows students to trade their student tickets for general admission tickets for a $15 fee. Each student must bring the person who will be using the ticket with them to the ticket office on the second floor of the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center before the day of the game in order to ex­change the ticket. The ex­change will not be available for the Notre Dame-Boston College game. 
It was also announced that 200 student tickets will be made available at the Stepan Center on September 20 for the Notre Dame-Ohio State game at Ohio State. Students will be placed in a lottery for the tickJ ets. For more information, look in The Observer for future an­nouncements by the Student Union Board, the program's sponsor. 
Beary announced a new counseling service called Hearts and Homes Divided to be held in the University Counseling Center. The service will discuss the long and short term effects on children whose parents are divorced or going through a divorce. 
Anyone interested in the meeting should meet in room 316 of the Counseling Center on October 6. The meeting will last from 3:30-5 p.m. and will continue every Friday at the same time and place. For more information, call the Center at 1-7336. 
Since O'Shea is only eigh­teen, she misses out on the col­lege bar scenes. 
"It's tough because the cul­ture thinks of drinking very differently here," she said. "I miss going to the pubs and hanging out with my friends. 
were alcoholics was wrong. ~~ ~~~~:e~.~ve kegs of beer at 
and involve more interaction Saint Mary's and The Zim­between the students and pro­merman Foundation is paying fessors -O'Shea says that the for O'Shea's tuition. upkeep of' daily class work has been a new challenge for her. O'Shea was responsible for 
The social scene has been her own airfare and spending challenging and overwhelming money. Shari Overdorf, the for O'Shea. "It's very strange Ireland Program director, also to see 300 people marching in played a large role in the a band screaming, 'Go Irish."' exchange. 
Wednesday: 80's Night 
Frog & Ant T-Shirt Giveaway 
Thursday: $2 Night Friday: Captain's Night Saturday: Pre-Game Party! 
Open 7am to 3am. 
Watch the Game on our 8 foot TV. 

-~---~----~ ---------------------~------------....., 
The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
NATO jets bomb Serb depots 
By AIDA CERKEZ Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

NATO jets bombarded Serb ammunition depots north of Sarajevo today, prompting the Russian government to accuse the alliance of committing genocide against the Bosnian Serbs. 
NATO started bombing Serb military targets on Aug. 30 to try to force the Serbs to with­draw all heavy weapons from within 12 miles of the besieged Bosnian capital. U.N. officials, however, say they have seen no movement. 
Russia, a traditional Serb ally, has been frustrated by its 
Binge 
continued from page 1 
activities, etc. 
• Working with Student Affairs or Student Activities to propose social alternatives to drinking that realistically would attract students, such as con­certs, plays, midnight basket­ball events, etc. 
"Students should not wait for the university to initiate cam­paigns against substance abuse, but should take the lead them­selves in discussing the issue and identifying ways to improve the culture on campus," the CASA report stated. "Demand that college be something more than just two or four years of drinking." 
"Shari has done everything to help me make the transi­tion," O'Shea said. 
"For only having 1,500 stu­dents, Saint Mary's offers many facilities and opportuni­ties for it's students," O'Shea 
· said. "I am very fortunate to be here." 
inability to stop the NATO raids. On Monday, it proposed a resolution to the U.N. Security Council demanding immediate suspension of the bombing. Today, it issued a sharp condemnation of the continuing air raids. 
"As a result of this action, innocent civilians, including the most defenseless of them all. the children. are getting killed," a Russian government statement said. "Thus, the very survival of the current generation of Bosnian Serbs, who are actually facing geno­cide, is called into question." 1 
Separately, the Foreign Min­istry accused NATO of turning Bosnia into a "testing ground" 
IT'S NOT WORTH THE WEIGHT. 
~f~~t fj
Rr bellel'-ard lilness, """"""' 


S~aters, Wall Hangings, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much Morel 
Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Nepal•ihailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Incredible Priceaf 
•3% of profits funds the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995) 
•ANY coins tossed in our jar-Greatly Appreciated! They add upl 
Notre Dame  St. Mary's  
Nov. 27-Dec.2 ONLYI  September 12 -15  
In front of Haggar • Windy or Rainy Weather-LeMan6 Hall  

for world domination. 
In Brussels, Belgium, a source at NATO headquarters said the United States wants to station F-117 stealth attack planes at Aviano air base in Italy for use against the Serbs but was having problems re­ceiving permission from the Italians. 
The use of the F-117 -one of the most advanced attack planes in the world -would suggest NATO is ready to esca­late its raids if negotiations with the Bosnian Serbs don't progress. 
The planes, virtually unde­tectable by radar and highly precise, were used in the Gulf War to attack Baghdad. 




Wednesday, September 13, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Crucifixes hung in Bavaria 
By ARTHUR ALLEN 
A.•sociared Press 
BONN, Germany 

Flouting a high court ruling, conservative Bavaria sent its children back to school Tuesday with crucifixes hang­ing on classroom walls and a new law to keep them there. 
The government in Ger­many's largest state set the stage for a new battle over the powers of church and state by introducing legislation even broader than the rule rejected by the Constitutional Court on Aug. 10. 
That rule -a 1968 school regulation requiring classroom crucifixes in Bavaria-was struck down as coercive. The high court said it forced chil­dren to "learn under the cross." 
Bavaria, a largely Roman Catholic state that clings to its traditions, is the only state where it is mandatory for the crucifix to he displayed. The high court's ruling upset Homan Catholics in other regions of Germany where the cross hangs in public by tradition. 
The cross is the Bavarian equivalent of "Mom, the flag, and apple pie" in the United States -a surefire vote win­ner, said Josef Joffe, a senior editor at the newspaper Suddeutsche Zeitung in Munich. 
The proposed law argues that the constitution leaves education to the state. It also says Bavaria has the duty to require class­rooms to hang crucifixes "as a symbol of Christian values in education and an expression of Bavaria's cultural traditions." 
Opponents call the legislation anti-democratic but conserva­tives, who dominate the legisla­ture, plan to pass it this year. 
Joffe said conservatives might be using the issue to challenge the authority of the Constitu­tional Court, a relatively liberal group. 
Bavaria enjoys more auton­omy than Germany's other states, the result separatist ten­dencies throughout its history. Officially it is known as a "free state," with the power to gov­ern itself in matters reserved elsewhere in Germany for the federal government. 
As Bavarian children re­turned from summer recess Tuesday, none of their parents complained about the 40,000 crosses hanging in the class­rooms, said Peter Erhardt, 
Tired ofyour friends? Go to Ireland! 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
Sept. 12 Sept 13 
7:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 
Room 303 Montgomery Theatre Haggar College LaFortune Student Center Center Saint Mary's Campus Notre Dame Campus 
Students discuss study at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! 

spokesman for the state educa­tion ministry. 
Not all agreed, however, with the state's pious handling of the affair. 
"They use the fuss to avoid dealing with more serious problems, like building play­grounds," said Gerda Shusser, ~4. as she led her 7-year-old daughter into the Farinelli ele­mentary school in Munich. 
Mrs. Schusser is one of an estimated 450,000 Germans who have left the Roman Catholic Church during the past three years. She said she was indifferent to the crucifix. 
Hiltrud Priebke, director of an Augsburg school where Turkish children are a strong minority, said the dispute offered parents a chance to consider the depth of their reli­gious belief. 
"A lot of them have never re­ally thought about their reli­gious feelings or the feelings of others," Ms. Priebke said. 
Bavaria is home to 6,500 Jews and hundreds of thou­sands of Muslim refugees and immigrants. In many of Ms. Priebke's classes, the crucifix hangs alongside photographs of mosques or quotations from the Koran. 
UN: Hole in ozone 
>~=· 
twice last year's size 
ByCAROLYN HENSON Associatc:d Press 
·: .,ArliE Wh GENEVA 

The hole in the earth's o;zone layer is growing faster than t)vet and is already twice the size it was this time last year, the U.N. weather agency said Tuesday. 
Ozo11e, a gas in the strato­sphere, prevents harmful nl~ travlolet radiation from reach­ing the earth. Its depletion, caused in large part by indus­trial chemicals, is believed to increase the incidence of skin cancer and cataracts. 
The hole, first observed over Antarctica in the 1980s, has reappeared each September and October since then. With the onset of winter in the polar region, temperatures plung in the stratosphere and hasten ozone depletion. 
The hole is getting bigger despite a reduction in ozone· destroying chemicals such as chlorine and bromine because these chemicals have a llf'e of 60 to 100 years. 
SQ far the hole has expand~ ed to 3.9 million square miles -roughly the size of Europe -according to the World Meteorological Organization. 
At that rate, the hole could surpass the record 24 million square miles it reached at the end of September last year. the U.N. agency said. 
The accelerated spread of the hole has surprised but not alarmed experts, who predict the ozone layer will get even worse before It recovers. 
"From the end of July through August and early September ozone levels in this polar region have depleted by an average of 1 percent a day ... more rapidly than ever before," said Rumen Bojkov, special adviser on ozone to the agency. 
"Every 1 percent drop in ozone means roughly 1.3 per­cent to 1.5 percent more ultraviolet radiation reaching the surface," said Bojkov. 
He said each· 1 percent In· crease in ultraviolet radiation is thought to increase chances of skin cancer and eye cataracts by 2 percent. 

Endeavour satellite shut down 
The 12-foot dish satellite, op­
erated through remote com­
mands from the ground, is us­
You
be theJudge! 
Darwini on Trial ing the vacuum of space to make super-thin semiconductor 
films. 
Because of the expected pris­tine conditions in its wake, the semiconductor material should be purer than any produced on Earth. Such film could eventu-
By MIKE DRAGO with most functions turned off Associated Press to prevent the spacecraft from tumbling out of control. SPACE CENTEH, Houston The spacecraft had been tilt­
A dish-shaped research ing 20 degrees out of its proper satellite flying free from space plane. shuttle Endeavour was shut Ground controllers suspected down by ground controllers the problem was caused by today after it overheated and heat buildup related to either began flying at the wrong the satellite's electronics exper­angle. iments or heating from the sun. 
The $25 million Wake Shield After a cool-down period, the Facility, which has had inter­satellite, flying some 40 miles mittent communications prob­behind Endeavour, was ex­lems since its release from the pected to steady its own night shuttle on Monday, was path. switched into a "safe mode," That had not happened by 
midday, however. Nonetheless, "the Wake Shield is not in any danger at this point," said NASA spokesman Hob Navias. 
Will 0 Testament 
A Life after Death Comedy 
Come and hear 
Phillip E. Johnson 
Professor of Law, UC Berkeley Author of 
Darwin on Trial (19 9 3) Reason in the Balance (19 9 S) 

7:30 Rm. 101 DeBartolo • Monday, September 18 also noon 'till 1 pm in the Law School Court Room on: 
Date: Sept. 17
Jurisprudence and Evolutionism 
Time: 7:30 Place: Little Theatre 
Sponsored by: 
The Graduate Student Union Intellectual Life Committee, The Law School, The Centerfor tlze Philosophy ofReligion and the Maritain Center 
ally lead to speedier computers. 
Astronauts overcame shaky data communications between the Wake Shield and ground controllers on Monday to set the satellite free from Endeav­our. They stood by today in case communications broke up again and ground controllers need the astronauts to send commands. 
The astronauts are schedule to pick the craft back up Wednesday. 
Physicists are attempting to grow seven wafers of semicon­ductor film on the back side of the satellite. Each wafer, grown atom-by-atom over up to eight hours, should be about 3 inches wide and one-1DOth the thick­ness of a human hair. 
When the Wake Shield shut itself off, it had just finished producing a third semiconduc­tor film and was about to start on a fourth. 
Because the satellite release came nearly two hours late Monday, the baking time for the first wafer was reduced, leav­ing it thinner than planned. 
by 

Fredric Stone 
& 

William Shakespeare 
-lit­ 
SAINT  
Cost: Students  $3.00  MARY'S COLLHGE NOflll 0.\MI.lN  
General  $4.00  
Call for ticket Info 284-4626  

Wednesday, September 13, 1995 

page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
Organizers admit failure in state AIDS program 
Administrators lack control in spending 
By SCOTT CHAR TON 
Associated Press 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. 

A state-run program that helped nearly 1,400 AIDS pa­tients with rent, food and health care has gone broke and administrators acknowledged they failed to control spending. 
"This program just got away from us," Coleen Kivlahan, the state health director, said Mon­day. "It's very sad, it's very embarrassing and very real. This will have a real impact on real people." 
Already, prescriptions have gone unfilled, dental appoint­ments have been canceled and some people who depended on the money are worried. 
"Some people are wondering 
Japanese abandon stake in Rockefeller Center deal 
By FARRELL KRAMER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The Japanese company that controls. Rockefeller Center abandoned its stake today un­der a deal that would transfer title of the famed office com­plex to a high-proflle American investment troika. 
If successful, the deal would end the center's four-month odyssey in bankruptcy court and mark the most striking re­treat by a major Japanese com­pany from an American in­vestment. 
It also would spell the end of any ownership role by the Rockefeller family, a dynasty of American capitalism that made the 12-building midtown Man­hattan landmark an icon of power and prestige. 
Poised to take over is a group led by investor Samuel Zell, who has built a fortune by ac­quiring distressed real estate; General Electric Co. and its Na­tional Broadcasting Co. sub­sidiary; and the Walt Disney Co. 
Rockefeller Group Inc., con­trolled by Mitsubishi Estate Co., announced a plan to surrender the Art Deco property to Rocke­feller Center Properties Inc., the trust that holds its $1.3 bil­lion mortgage. 
"It's a little bit surprising that it's come to this, that they're willing to walk away without slogging it a little fur­ther through the bankruptcy," said Wayne Teetsel, an analyst at B.D.S. Securities Corp. in New York, a brokerage firm. 
Rockefeller Center Properties Inc. said today it signed an agreement with the group led by Zell. The Zell group would invest $250 million in the prop­erty. The new venture would seek bankruptcy court approval to take title. 
GE and NBC, among the most famous tenants of the center, reached an agreement in prin-
University o 

ciple to join the Zell investment group, said a statement by Rockefeller Center Properties. 
Disney is already included in the Zell group, which has said that the entertainment giant has its eye on managing or leasing Radio City Music Hall. The 5,874-seat theater is one of the prime tourist destina­tions in the center. 
The center also is known among New Yorkers and visi­tors from around the world for its annual Christmas tree light­ing and a jewel-box of a skat­ing rink. 
Rockefeller Center Properties said that in light of the uncer­tainties surrounding the bank­ruptcy court proceedings, it is suspending dividend payments for the third quarter. 
The swirl of announcements came as a bankruptcy court hearing convened on the prop­erty's future. 
"The transaction would per­mit us to restore the financial health of Rockefeller Center by reducing its debt load and strengthening its capital struc­ture," said Peter D. Linneman, chairman of Rockefeller Center Properties. 
Japanese companies includ­ing Mitsubishi invested huge sums in real estate during the 1980s, when prices were high and affluent investors from Japan were pouring money into everything from Hollywood stu­dios to American golf courses. 
Some Americans saw the 1989 Rockefeller Center pur­chase as an affront to the na­tion's pride and a symbol of 
U.S. economic decline. 
As real estate prices fell, however, real estate investors had trouble paying their bills. That was true for Rockefeller Center's owners, who sought bankruptcy court protection on May 11. 
The bankruptcy proceeding set off a high-profile battle for control of the center. 
Notre Dame International Study Program in 


INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
"Stories from Abroad" With Professor Marie -Antoinette Kremer 
Wednesday September 13, 1995 
4:30pm 
114 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
how they will eat," said Dave Peters, executive director of the AIDS Project of Springfield, which had 257 people on the program. "It's devastating to them.... They're very upset." 
The program for people who are HIV-positive or who have AIDS was funded by a $2.2 mil­lion federal grant. It was in­tended for people who don't have private insurance or other sources for care. 
Kivlahan said problems be­gan last year when controls once imposed on the program were lifted to make more peo­ple eligible -and assure that no unspent grant money lapsed back to Washington. 
It took only three months for this year's money to run out ­including $200,000 spent to cover a deficit from last year. Yet spending continued into August, piling up perhaps $1.9 million in debts. 
Kivlahan said advisory panels made up of local AIDS agencies pushed to make more people eligible in April 1994, after the program wound up its first year with unspent money. 
They agreed to dump a limit on prescription spending and allow payments for "nontradi­tional treatment." And they expanded the maximum allow­able income of recipients. 
However, there was no sys­tem to keep track of grant spending being approved by some 60 publicly paid "care coordinators" across the state. 

Elderly split on knowing diagnosis 
Study asks seniors about medical beliefs 
By LINDSEY TANNER 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Many elderly blacks and whites believe doctors should tell their patients ifthey have a fatal illness, while Korean and Mexican Americans are more likely to think the patient shouldn't be told the awful truth, a study found. 
Researchers surveyed 800 people at least 65 years old to examine beliefs about medical decision-making among Amer­icans of Korean, Mexican, Eu­ropean and African descent. 

In an article published in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association, they questioned the standard practice of doctors telling pa­tients the truth about their di­agnosis and prognosis, as well as the risks and benefits of proposed treatments. 
Korean and Mexican Ameri­cans were more likely to believe that patients should not be told of a fatal diagnosis and should not be burdened with making decisions about the use of life-support technol­ogy. 
The two groups also were more likely to believe that fam­ily members, rather than the patient alone, should be re­sponsible for making major medical decisions, said re­searchers led by Dr. Leslie Blackball, an internist and as­sistant professor of medicine at the University of Southern California. 
Only 35 percent of the Korean Americans and 48 per­cent of the Mexican Americans believed a patient should be told they were going to die, compared with 63 percent of the African Americans and 69 percent of the European Americans. 
The researchers didn't speculate on why the groups felt that way. But they con­cluded that the doctrine of informed consent fails to take into account cultural and eth­nic beliefs that put more emphasis on family than indi­vidual autonomy. 
"Insisting on the patient ~u­tonomy model of medical deci­sion-making when that model runs counter to the deepest values of the patient may ironically be another form of the paternalistic idea that 'doctor knows best,"' the study said. 
The study was conducted at USC's Pacific Center for Health Policy and Ethics, where Blackball is a bioethicist, using interviews with 200 people in each of four senior citizen cen­ters in the Los Angeles area. 
The researchers' conclusion: "We suggest that physicians ask patients if they wish to be informed about their illness and be involved in making decisions about their care or if they prefer that their family handles such matters." 
In an accompanying editori­al, Georgetown University law professor Lawrence Gostin said malpractice concerns should not push doctors into forcing information on patients. 
"Courts have expressly de­termined that physicians should not be liable for failure to disclose resulting from the patient's specific request not to be informed," Gostin said. 
Jane Delgado, president of the National Coalition of His­panic Health and Human Ser­vices Organizations, praised the research. 

Tom DeLuca Take a journey with hypnosis... Make a date with your imagination!  
Dates: Wed. Sept. 27 Thurs. Sept. 28 Time: 8:00pm Place: 101 DeBartolo Tickets: $3 at LaFortune Information Desk  


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 


NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Edimr Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Porter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................]en Mackowiak Spono Editor ............................. Mike Norbur Production Manager ..•............... Jacqueline Moser Accent f.ditor ..........•.•....•....... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .....•....•.•.........•.•......... Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's F.diror .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either irutiturion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­toltials represrol the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and lruide Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily rhos. of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available 10 all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Alcoholjust a small part ofa larger issue 
I
didn't anticipate striking a resounding chord last week when I talked about how I felt about alcohol consumption and alcoholism. I didn't anticipate much of a response and yet I received a good amount of feedback. 
So I thank all of you who wrote, C!llled, phoned and e-mailed me how you felt and your views, regardless if we agreed or not. 
Despite what some of you think, the idea. is not to get everybody to think like me or do as I do. The idea was to get those of you who drink to start thinking about what you're doing. 
The biggest gripe I got was from those who didn't see anything wrong with the occasional gulp of the bottle or sip of the wine. I say "more power to you." 
T
If that is what you wish to do, then so be it. That is a risk you are taking not me. Hey, if you can assert that much self-control, God Bless you, 'cause there are those who think they have it, but have no such thing. It is more than what it is. hen there are those like Dan O'Hare (The Observer, 9/12) who say and I quote "it's no big deal...what goes on at Notre Dame is no big deal...It's just a bunch of little kids getting their first experiences with alcohol. 
They will get over it. If they don't they'll die, or live miserable lives ... " Well, Dan, I think it is a big deal and I think you know it is, too. It affected your life. as well, because you don't drink because of what happened to your friend. 
I am not here to judge anyone, but to let people know that you don't have to drink to have fun, or have a good time, or to be accepted, or to be happy. 
And in the same manner you don't have to drink because you're not having fun or you're not having a good time or you're not happy. 
I
I've seen with my own two God-given eyes, what alcohol does to nice caring people, people that are my friends and family. And it all comes down to that getting drunk is a lot more trouble than what it is worth. t is not that I am upset about anything, but one thing that really pisses me off is the whole "How-dare-you-judge-peo­ple-who-are-not-financially-well-off-or­
had-loving-fami­lies-or-everything­they-wanted-and­have-a-carefree­life-like-you." 
Anyone who knows me knows that I am not one of those Domers, if a Domer at all. As a strong Black woman on Notre Dame's campus, 
those two situations are not in my story, but that's for another day. 
I say what I say from my own experi­ence. I see what alcohol and drugs did and still are doing, to not only Notre Dame, but my Black communities and neighborhoods. I say "my" because of the person I choose to be, it is my responsibility to claim them as mine and to do something about it. 
You see, alcohol is just a small part of it. We all should know what a history of passivity and doing "what has always been done" or "what everyone else does" can do and has done. We live in a society where everyone wants to be cool. 
Everyone wants to have the latest and the greatest, the newest and the coolest, and we don't ever stop to think about what it is we are doing, or God forbid, the consequences. We just do, get in trouble later, then blame it on some­body else. 
A lot of times, my friends and I talk about revolution and the revolutionary processes. What has to be done? What sparks it? What does it accomplish? 
In class we discuss how we as individ­uals in this society don't really make drastic choices for ourselves, but instead just drudge along in the flow of life and do what society says you should be doing. 
One of my professors said most of us don't go to college to get educated, we go to college to get specially trained so we can get a nice car, the beautiful spouse, the big house, the 2.5 kids, but a job that we absolutely hate. Highly trained and very uneducated. 
Alcohol is just a small part of it. It's a very big fish in very big pond, with lots of other big fish. I don't buy into the whole Generation X thing, but I do think our different cultures are evolving in the wrong direction. 
B
It's like society is a wide stream that is flowing quite strongly downhill and most of us are passive ho-hum fish just letting it take us on down and then we think it's cool. ut we should be like the salmon. The salmon fight their way up stream to lay their eggs, which are seeds to the future, in the hopes that they won't just float down stream but will keep that spirit of challenge in them for the next generation to take up. 
Like Maya Angelou wrote "I am the hopes and the dreams of a slave" and I feel like because of who I am and who I need to be, I can't be slippin' any. Because of who we are and who we need to be, and what we're up against, we can't be slippin' either, and that's all I'm saying. 
Cristiane Likely is a senior who lives in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin. helios.nd. edu 

Cristiane Likely 
• 000NESBURY fLASHBACKS 
THe Tf?IJTH 15, 11JU<S, I HAPN'T 
APPRtfaltTWUJHATA G!<£AT 
IlEAl-HOMb IS! BtUbVbM/3, I lf.W7 
e~ MAKe THATMl'.iTA.Ic'eA6AIN.' 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
I wveHtM, 
BUTCAN tuef£TA COURT 
OI?J?t3R~ 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"An unhatched egg is to me the greatest challenge in 
life." 
-E. B. White 

VIEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
• DESIDERATA 
Sellout? Making money while maintaining morals 
E
ver since age fifteen, I have had a special affinity for the band, Ministry. And while they are not really a band to whom I look for inspirational words of wisdom, they do sometimes offer them. Throughout the years, for example, I have listened to Alain Jourgensen shriek: "Don't be commer­cial, or sell out...Be your own person!" And I have always aspired to do just that. 
But lately, I won­
swear they are talk­der if I haven't dis-ing to me. No one appointed Alain, forced me to go to and concomitantly, law school, and had
Kirsten
myself. I seriously I done otherwise, I fear that I might would not be in this have sold out and situation. I chose it. 
Dunne
given in to societal And so every expectations. Let weekend I wake up me tell you why. at 7:15 or so -or at As some of you least I make an 
B
because in large part they make me who I am. y my spirit, used to be free, is suffo­cating right now. As an associate attorney at a middle-sized law firm, I am expected to put clients' perceptions above my own wishes. And, because I need to make money right now, I am trying to do just that. ·Sell out! Sell out! When I hear Ministry scream these 
words today, I could 
know, I do not function well in the morning. I would not call myself lazy simply because I prefer to rise late, though. For although I sleep until 11:30 or so when I am given my druthers, I also stay up until about 3 a.m. I feel more productive this way, and my day is so much more enjoyable. 
Although I went through law school, and I am not sorry I did, I have a very creative side which I do not like to see overwhelmed by practicalities. I have a very distinctive style of dress. I enjoy writing poetry and designing greeting cards. And, as is the case with many innovative people, my mind tends to work in an eccentric manner. My friends largely appreciate these qualities in me, and I cherish them deeply 
effort to. Not that I think I will ever get used to these hours. My internal clock is obstinate. But at work, they don't understand that type of thing. So in order to please them, I go by their schedule and arrive in the office, bright (NOT) and early at 9 a.m. 
It might help me get enthused if, at that early hour, I could at least feel good about the way I looked. But they take care of that for me, too; I am asked to abide by a dress code and, although reluctantly, I comply. I suppose I am lucky in that my firm is relatively laid­back as far as law frrms go, They don't mind my hair or make-up; or at least they do not say they do. And the work­clothes which I have found might not be considered acceptable at all firms, as 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Alcohol issue requires thought, reassessment of personal usage 
I
Dear Editor: n her Sept. 6 "Viewpoint" letter, Cristiane Likely encourages the mem­bers of the Notre Dame community to examine their attitudes toward alcohol consumption. Although I disagree with her implicit assumption about the intrinsic evils of alcohol, I applaud her efforts to challenge the widespread acceptance of excessive and underage drinking. 
A casual examination of The Observer supports the relevance of Likely's con­cerns. Consider the front page article from Sept. 6, "Off-campus transition made easy." In the third column, excessive alco­h"ol consttmption receives an implicit endorsement: "He never discouraged us to have parties because that is his biggest form of advertisement." Indeed. 
A more disturbing attitude finds expres­sion in an article on the readjustment of students returning from studies abroad. Jennifer Lewis encourages readers to "imagine the frustration of using your expired fake ID and being denied at Bridget's after having the liberty of enjoy­ing a beer with friends for an entire year." 
I
Such a traumatic problem arises because: "Some students were lucky enough to have reached the legal drinking age while overseas. 'It would have been so much harder to adjust if I was not twenty-one,' said (Allison) Lambert. 'I don't think I could have done it." Really? want to make it clear that I am not argu­ing that either Jennifer Lewis or Allison Lambert has a drinking problem. But, yes, Cristiane, this community, in addition to many of its members, has a problem. 
I do not pretend to have a complete answer, but part of the solution must il).clude awareness and rejection of The Observer ads and notes extolling the virtues of alcohol-pictures for "turning 21 today" birthday bashes, top ten lists of drunken activities, and personal ads such as the one on page 12 seeking alcohol ("Hey man, you got any bud?") 
Though I cannot produce any statistical evidence, I remain confident that few members of the fabled Notre Dame family have completely escaped the devastating effects of alcohol. My own parents were nearly killed by a drunk driver who failed to stop at an intersection. I have known fellow church members who died in car accidents to which alcohol was a con­tributing factor. 
M
Alcohol can contribute to injuries in other ways, too; once, I almost ran over a Notre Dame student so intent on carrying his three cases of beer that he walked right in front of my car. Over the past few years, the Notre Dame community itself has been shocked by the deaths and injuries caused by alcohol-related car accidents. any Notre Dame students have grown up in homes in which alcohol abuse destroyed the lives of their family mem­hers. Football weekends even include AA meetings, yet excessive public drinking continues. One could discuss at length the shattering, though perhaps less visible, effects of random hook-ups and date rape often linked to alcohol. 
Lest my intentions be misconstrued, I wish to reaffirm my belief that alcohol is one of God's many good gifts. Nor do I have any desire to participate in wide­spread condemnation of all I see at Notre Dame, though I am tempted to criticize the inclusion of a horoscope in the news­paper of an intellectual community, and a Christian one at that. But such a matter pales in comparison to the importance of addressing the havoc wreaked by irresponsible alcohol consumption on this campus. 
Along with Cristiane, I challenge you, the individual reader of this letter, to address your own alcohol consumption practice. 
MARVIN BOLT 
Graduate student in History and Philosophy of Science 
they are not the starchy, conservative things you probably think of when you envision a business suit. (I absolutely refuse to wear those.) But still, they are not "me;" and that is not supposed to matter anyway. The most important thing is whether the clients approve of us because only if they approve will they retain us. Sell out! 
I
And there are times when, on their schedule and in their clothes, I cannot even say what is on my mind. The peo­ple I work with are great, don't get me wrong; but oftentimes, they think differ­ently of me. And if a touchy issue is at hand, I often feel that it is better to keep the peace with my co-workers, with whom I have spent so much time, than to disagree. As someone who speaks up for civil liberties all the times, I am ashamed to engage constantly in this task of self-censorship -the very evil of our Founding Fathers sought to guard against when they drafted the First Amendment. t certainly appears like I have given up my individuality to the system. But upon a closer look, I hope that you will agree with me that I really have not. 
I went to law school because I have always aspired to help the downtrodden and oppressed in society. That has not changed. I loved studying the law. and I want to use my knowledge to help oth­ers. At the same time, I want to enjoy life -to express myself freely, to work on a flexible schedule, and to devote a sig­nificant amount of time to my creative side. I feel like I can achieve these twin goals eventually, and that I can do this best by teaching. 
I
But I can only progress toward these ends if I continue to do as I am doing right now. For one, I need money. owe a tremendous amount, and I must repay it before I can think about further career moves. For another, I need "real world" experience. It seems to be a pre­requisite for almost any sort of teaching position, and whether I like it or not I guess I do see the value in it. In other words, then, I have to work for now, and I am sure it will be a more pleasant and meaningful experience if I do not fight it. And I think I can overcome the nega­tives by keeping a positive attitude and by seeing my current situation as a nec­essary stepping stone to further fulfill­ment -which, after all, is what it is. n this article, I have spoken mainly about myself, but I fervently hope that my thoughts have some readers as well. So, if you feel as if something you are doing right now is completely meaning­less or it makes you unhappy, please don't become discouraged. Hold on to your dreams, for hope will keep them alive, and when all else seems to fail, they will keep you going. I, for one, believe that my dreams will come true. And as long as I do not sacrifice that thought, I have not been robbed of my individuality. To Alain Jourgensen's relief and definitely to my own, I am still my own person. May we all be able to at least achieve that goal, for in the end, it is the most important one. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and '95, is working at Goldberg, Weisman, & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 

· ·,_,.,..,dd!!W:~==::.: ···· ·.... ·= · ·· · .. · ..
r:····· .......................· ·ww • • 
contra cts true sprrrt ofthe ND Family 
Dear Editor: . . ·Jam_· wrlttng i.n regards to a Roc 
Sports policy which, in my mind, contradicts everything that Notre Dame stands for. · 
.fltom my ffr~t days heN as a freshman, I have been bombarded with the idyllic concept of "the Notre Dame family." I skeptically disregarded it ·(l.S•• Disn(lylandbrain~wasllingi hut 4~ th()se init!al we¢1<$ wen;t by, I willingly conceP,~d thl\t this school was different. · 
Notre Dame also fiercely encour­to encol,ltage off-campus women to play for their dorms, but it was to no avail. We tried to get permission from Rec Sports to .play for PW, but we weredenied.·S·o, now we wust watch our team 
·• from the sidelines. Sure, we could play for the off-campus team. We would probably meet a lot of_ grel\t.peopleand have a terrific tiJ:lle; .Byt we c~>Uld no more play against PW than we could bet against the Fighting Irish. 
In light of recent events, both 

ag dtb~ dor ()mmUJ~iJy, pro•, prospec are temptingc-but I could Ing th~ .... ...... ,nee h:q,lls;_ ~t?:bfl ·. <Df!V~l' . .. rW is more than just a

than just 1:1, place tp Uv~~ hut a place where I lived for three years, way of life. This also proved true itls my family and my home. forme after})e .ing a mell1h~r of I was pnder the impression that 
th~~le \V~. Foo . . .. ... e ..... ·. t:l vva.s about tradition tne ·lla~· ....... re b ·f$i!;terhood. l thought fo < l has b~~ll a w ··.·. Spotts would recognizead.fenaUne, camaraderie. -aii~. good and yalue this intangible quality of 
u s. I. c~efisb t~:s~~~modes )~~;~it e~ns to :rr~c=~~ fh'~ 
itde. ..•!!• tea. '+1 'cho' 1 for purdorm. I te . . dirtyj ln the . ¢ was ong. hud(lle to winning the champi-l hope·.that Rec Sports will re­onship in the stadium tnY sopho· <;()nsider~hejr off-campus policy for 
ll1 .o1hal . . . . so futl.lre off·cam~ 
.~t 0 ' n't have to miss ano ei' ddle moment or champi­onship-winning touchdown pass. 
Senior OffCampus 

ACCENT 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 page 11 
• BOOKS, BOOKS, BOOKS••• 
Domers: Notre Dame uncovered 
By BRYCE SEKI 
Accent Literary Critic 
Three years ago, journalist Kevin Coyne came to Notre Dame to see what America's great Catholic institu­tion was all about. What was it about this place that made it so special to its alumni and even to those who don't even know it's in Indiana? For a year Coyne stayed on campus, indulging himself in the Fighting Irish lifestyle, and aquainting himself with everyone from University president Monk Malloy right down to Jimmy Z., the Oak Hoom staffer. Where most books on Notre Dame are focused on its foot­ball legacy or its strong Catholic tradi­tion, Coyne beautifully chronicles his experience under the Golden Dome in his book, Domers: A Year at Notre Dame by focusing in on what life is like for the Notre Dame student. 
Throughout Domers, Coyne gives lit­tle tidbits of Notre Dame's 150-year history. lie tells of Father Sarin's founding of the school and the reign of Father llesburgh up to the current presidency of Father Malloy. Historical accounts of the develop­ment of the Golden Dome and the Basilica of the Sacred Heart are given as well as the changes made to make the University what it is today, one of the most well-respected intellectual institutions in the United States. 
Domers also objectively discusses some of the University's many dilem­mas. Is Notre dame losing its Catholic Identity? Is the 87% white student body too homogeneous? Coyne even tackles the GLND/SMC controversy, stating both sides of the issue and allowing readers to examine their own opinions. He includes student responses to some of these issues as well as their unique views on pari­etals, single sex residences and the university's alcohol policies. 
But what makes Darners so special is that it is truly about Notre Dame students and its faculty. Coyne tells about some of Notre Dame's more famous faculty members, highlighting 
T. V. Morris and his radically hip style of teaching philosophy to his freshman students. Monk Malloy, Father Bonaventure Scully, and Father Joe Ross are given ample space as well for their teaching styles and interaction with their students. Many of the stu­dents Coyne chooses to follow around for a year come directly from these teachers' classes. By this, Coyne is able to see the full range of Notre Dame students, from newly arrived freshmen to the seniors and graduate students concerned with life after col­lege. Coyne listens to campus music (U2, REM, Joy Division). frequents stu­dent parties (on campus and oft), and even attends their SYR's and Formals. Coyne ventures off into South Bend and even notes some of the more pop­ular bars and weekend hot spots. 
Domers shows the agony and the ecstacy of the student, from the exhil­aration of winning the big game against Penn State to the heart break­ing loss of a dear friend. Coyne is able to enter the student body's mind and put into words the most tender aspects of Notre Dame, a family-like student body, a deep respect for tradi­tion and a deep appreciation for each other. He vividly shows what sets apart Notre Dame students from those of other college campuses. 
Darners is a real account of what Notre Dame is. Not just gold helmets and priests, but a university with a lot of character and mystique. To the outsider, it is an excellent portrayal of what it would be like to be part of one of America's most unique and intrigu­ing universities. To the Domer, the book is a constant reminder of just how special "God, country, Notre Dame" really is. 


c5!urlenls explore Xo!re 7Jame's ~1s£
greland 
roofs during ayearlong aduenlure 
By JENNIFER LEWIS "The students live so close to "We met students from every 
Assistant Saint Mary's Editor each other that there was no country," said McNamee. "It 
T
effort required to make was amazing how many cui~ here is no avoiding Irish friends." tures we experienced just by culture when you're The Saint Mary's Ireland pro­being in Ireland." immerstJd in it. gram is a year-long commit­Without the language barrier, 
Last year twenty-three stu­ment. the students became more fa­
dents from Saint Mary's and The Irish school year begins miliar with the culture. 
Notre Dame spent eight months in early October and ends in According to Grant, she picked 
in the International Study May, with a three week va­the Ireland program for obvious 
Program at St. Patrick's College cation at Christmas and a two­reasons. "Like a lot of Notre 
in Maynooth, Ireland. week vacation at Easter. Dame and Saint Mary's stu­
"Saint Pat's is a very quaint "You get so much more out of dents, my relatives came from 
eo liege," said junior Diane the program if you are there for Ireland. I did not make the de­
Grant. "The original college a year," said McNamee. "The cision to go until the end of my 
looks like an old historic castle, first semester you are just get­freshman year. I wanted to see 
but has a modernized addition ting used to the idea of being in the beautiful country my par­
eonnected by a bridge." another country. It is not· until ents talked about." 
The students lived in co-ed the second semester that you The Ireland Program is de­
apartment complexes in really get to grasp the culture, signed primarily for sopho­
Maynooth, which is only 14 travel through Europe, and mores. but juniors are accepted 
miles west of Dublin. The live take more risks." with permission of their de­
11edroom apartments are al­own kitchenettes. so students "I liked the Saint Mary's pro­The Saint Mary's and Notre partment chairpersons. 
ready furnished upon arrival. are responsible for making gram because it was close Dame students blend right into Is there any other reason to 
The students bring their own their own meals. Some of the enough to Dublin, but you lived the Irish culture. Unlike other go to Ireland? "Guinness," 
towels and bed linens. students shared their flats with in a small town," said Morrissey abroad programs, their classes McNamee said, "is reason 
All the apartments have their students from other countries. Junior Jim McNamee. intermix with Irish students. enough." 
• 
:J.he romance andmagic of!Jrance
Ylngers 
caplures !.he £earls ofyoung :7/mericans 
T
By ANGIE KELVER participants in the program. to submit letters of recommen­while in Angers. France. There has been a big Saint Mary's Accent Editor Junior Patrick Kenney shared dation, go through an informal "The French are more in tune adjustment going back to Notre Schott's sentiment, "It is by far interview, and have taken an with happiness in everyday life, Dame academics," Schott said. he French language has the most incredible thing I have intermediate-level French whether it be sitting down to a Adjustment or no, these stu­long been billed the "lan­ever done. Every aspect of it course. long dinner or drinking a good dents would not have traded guage of love" by those was something new and differ­Upon arriving in France, the glass of wine. They find a lot of their time in Angers for any­who speak it and those who ent." Professor Paul McDowell students go through twenty-five enjoyment in the simple plea­thing. The closeness they share wish they did. This title holds a teaches a special class for the hours a week of intensive lan­sures," Kenney said. now and the experiences they special meaning for the Notre prospective Angers students. guage study for the first month, The students on the program had in France make the aver­Dame and Saint Mary's stu­preparing them stateside for in order to acclimate the stu­took the time to experience life age English-speaking person dents who chose to spend a their year abroad with inten­dents to the language. While to the fullest. "The lifestyle was jealous. year in the Angers, France sive language lessons. staying in Angers, students are so easygoing there. I did a lot of "I would like to go back soon l~rogram. "Our Angers program is in its placed with host families, traveling, and really got a because I do not want France 
"There are no words in the thirtieth year. Notre Dame has which gives them the opportu­chance to experience the cul­to become just a memory. I English or French language to a very strong and established nity to practice their French at ture," noted junior Amy Cox. want it to always be an active describe exactly how wonderful presence there," he said. the dinner table as well as form In fact, the group is now try­part of my life," Kenney said. It an experience it was," said ju­A large part of the program's close relationships with their ing to become accustomed to seems that the land of the "lan­nior Dominique Schott. strength is due to the caliber of host parents.The students espe­what has been called "reverse guage of love" will always hold 
This sentiment is wholeheart­the students and faculty. The cially enjoyed the relaxed culture-shock." a place in these participants' edly agreed upon by other program requires the students lifestyle they were able to lead "I really miss the life in hearts. 
/ 

ACCENT
page 12 Wednesday, September 13, 1995 

Saint Mary's seniors find a new home on the fourth floor ofHoly Cross Hall 
By LESLIE FIELD Accent Writer 

To live off or not to live off? That is the question asked by countless numbers of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's juniors. While many stu­dents opt for a luxurious Campus View apartments (complete with impeccable perma-beer stained brown carpeting) or a charming home with sparkling new steel bars over the windows, others choose to stay on. 
After all, when will you ever again have the opportunity to live on a gorgeous campus surrounded by your friends? 
When will you be able to wake up for an eight o'clock class at ten min­utes 'til eight and be on time? There are bonuses to being on, even as a senior. 
The closing of Augusta Hall last year came as a disappointment to many Saint Mary's students who were looking forward to living in a senior hall with such benefits as no parietals. 
But just when they thought that their on campus luck was lost, along came fourth floor Holy Cros,s. As the only designated senior hall on campus, Fourth Floor provides the most convenient and luxu­
... 
rious housing . 
According to Betsy Killian, President of Holy Cross Senior Housing, "There has been great team work and support from the seniors on the floor which makes our job easy. We really appre­ciate their enthusiasm." 

Heather Durrie, Kell McDevitt and Paulett Raczkowski are the other three women representing Fourth Floor, which will soon have its own name, setting it apart from the other traditionally run halls. 
According to Killian, a vote will
" take place in which the Fourth Floor residents will choose a name for the floor. Once the name has been cho­sen, an open house will be held for both seniors and underclasswomen to see the changes that have been made. So just what are the changes and why would they make a senior want to live on campus? Here is the impressive list from the Fourth 
Floor officers: 

-"The Barn," previously the most coveted quint on campus, is now a well-decorated lounge complete with beautiful new furniture, a T.V. 
' There has been great team work and support from the seniors on the floor which makes our job easy. We really appreciate their enthusiasm.' 
Betsy Killian 
and, a soon to come, historical Saint Mary's memorabilia wall (Even Dr. Hickey was impressed when he vis­ited). 
-newly finished hard wood floors in each room -a separate bike 
room -washers and dryers in the bath rooms (how convenient) -another smaller lounge with 
hopes of a third -new beds -24-hour access with a detex -fresh paint -the RA's don't go on rounds on 
fourth floor -the room sizes are great (rooms designed as doubles are now sin­gles) 
Kelly McDevitt, Fourth Floor Secretary, attributes much of the success of the floor to the resi­dents,"The seniors really respect each other. Everyone is grown up. It is fun to have everyone together," she said. 
Raczkowski also gave credit to the Residence Hall Association, "They have been very helpful in supporting us and have given us the funds we need to improve and monitor the exclusiveness of the floor," she said. 
The four have also worked with Caroline Blum and Alaina Higginbotham, Holy Cross Hall President and Vice President respectively, in order to talk through ideas and seek support. According to Killian, they have been very help­ful. along with Rachel Tenyer, Holy Cross Hall Director. 
Fourth Floor residents Jenn Farley and Kerry Patzke consider the floor to be the best of both worlds. 
Although most of their friends live off-campus, Farley and Patzke stayed on. 
"It is very convenient but we hear about how much fun it is being off, too," commented Farley. They also pointed out the responsibility of liv­ing in a house. 
And what do next years seniors think about the new senior housing? "I think its great, but I'm still living off campus. I have to experience the real world before I graduate," said Caroline Blum," and my senior 
comp will be done plus I'll be 
21! I think I'll have myself a 
good time!" 
Junior Abigail 
Fleming likes the 
Fourth Floor and 
hopes to live there next 
year. "I plan to take 
advantage of senior 
housing because of the 
freedoms similar to that of an 
apartment. 

It's a beautiful cam­
pus and it is nice to 
ave the luxury of liv­
ing on it with special 
privileges, like Fourth 
Floor Holy Cross. I'm 
really looking forward to it," 
Fleming said. 

For Saint Mary's seniors, the 
options are endless. From the ele­
gance of Turtle Creek to the conve­
nience of fourth floor Holy Cross, 
Saint Mary's seniors continue to 
have the choice of where they want 
to spend their last year of college 
life. 

• ACCENT SPEAKS 
The London Goddess 
By SARAH CASH ORE Assistant Accent Editor 
No black taxis lurked around the corner, waiting to run me down as I inevitably failed to look right before crossing the street. Leinster Gardens was quiet as I opened the heavy door of number 33 and trudged up the stairs to Flat #4. The flat was dark and eerily silent as I walked toward our kitchen/living/dining room. I stared in horror at the piece of loose-leaf notebook paper taped to the door as I read the words which made my heart leap into my throat: SHOWER SCHEDULE. The first name on that list, next to the phrase "6:15 a.m.," was my own. 
I silently cursed myself for not rushing home to be a part of that Thursday night ritual, the making of the shower schedule, and I audibly cursed the cruelty of my flatmates for taking advantage of my absence by giving me the dreaded shower "pole position." Why, oh why did I have to live with six other girls, and why did we all have to have class on Friday mornings? 
London was a semester of firsts. It was, painful­ly, the first time I had ever been allotted a bath­room time -with seven girls sharing one toilet, one sink, and one pathetic trickle of water which pass­es for a shower, you've got to make some rules. It was the first time I lived in a city. the first time my divine potential was recognized (by my perpetually sleepy and alarm clock-deficient flatmate, for whom I reset my alarm each morning and by whom I was rewarded with the words, "Sarah, you are a goddess!"), the first time I cooked for more than three people -actually. it was the first time I cooked. 
London was also a semester of adjustments. Living in a highly racially, ethnically, and economi­cally diverse neighborhood (where, incidentally, I experienced another first, being mistaken for a prostitute while wearing sweatpants and carrying groceries, no less) was a distinct adjustment. Instead of getting up minutes before class, I had to adjust to commuting to class, no easy task when subway service was routinely interrupted by mys­terious "signal failures." Despite the apparent lin­guistic similarities, I had to adapt to living in a for­eign culture where words and actions had com­pletely different connotations (never use the word "napkin" in Britain unless you're ABSOLUTELY sure of what it means). I was faced with adjusting to British professors and their distinctive manner of teaching, ahd, most importantly, I had to adjust to studying, living, eating, and sleeping with 74 people whom I barely knew. 
In spite of all these changes, or more accurately. 
because of them, my semester in London was 
undoubtedly my most rewarding experience as a 
Notre Dame student. London itself continually 
amazed me. The city was our classroom, and my 
classes and professors enabled and encouraged 
me to take advantage of London's innumerable 
opportunities. 
I became much more independent as the semes­
ter progressed, particularly following my some­
times harrowing but always interesting European 
Vacation experiences. If two of my flatmates and I 
could successfully complete a journey through the 
tiniest towns in Wales where most of the towns­
people hadn't seen an American since World War 
II, if I could communicate in extremely bad French 
with two random men in Killarney, Ireland, only to 
discover that my companions and I had just biked 
several "kilometres" in the wrong direction, I 
could survive anything. 
There was a distinctive feeling to that semester 
which is very difficult to recapture in South Bend, 
and not merely because of the obvious geographic 
differences. I don't know if it was the European 
mentality which rubbed off on us, or if it was our 
mixture of majors and personalities, but my class­
mates and I definitely became more relaxed away 
from Notre Dame. Instead of sequestering our­
selves in the library, we studied in the park; 
instead of rushing to and from the dining hall, we 
spent hours over dinner, talking and getting to 
know each other; instead of barely noticing our 
surroundings as we slipped into routines, we 
walked through some of the oldest and most beau­
tiful parts of a city rich in architectural beauty and 
history. London is a city for the gods, and each day 
in London, I was a goddess. 
The Accent column should appear euery Wednesday. 
Wedn;sday, September 13, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
..

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
College Football Hall of Fame Needs Volunteers Call 235-9999 
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9:30 THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR 255-0458 NEED ID 
Newly remodeled Bed and Breakfast located In Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 5 rooms with private baths, space available lor football game wknds. 1-800-418­9487 
QUALITY CHILD CARE/PRESCHOOLING-tovlng mom with certificate in early child­hood education and lour years of preschool teaching experience has openings lor children 18 months and older. Farmington Square home. 271-8437. 
II you are going to see : THE MAIDS @ SMC this Thur/FrVSat-Piease bring your own cushion to Dalloway' 
Bed & blst. lovely room with private bath lor two people (219­272-5989) Parents or friends ol UNO & St Mary's 
NO @ WASHINGTON -2 Obi Rms Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch lor 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise to/from game. No game tkts. $600. Mike (208)575-0711 . 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: MY DAILY (FRANKLIN) 
PLANNER. CALL SCOTT AT 288­
7261. 
LOSTI Lostl 
Have you seen my car keys. They 
are GM keys on a unique keychain 
that Is a laminated cardboard 
teardrop advertising INCREDIBLE 
UNIVERSE. 
Have no Idea where I lost them, but II you lind them call Mike at 631­4541 . Thanks. 
LOSTI Pair of eyeglasses. 
Gold frames, brown carrying case 
Call Rich at 4-2153 
Found: gold tie holder outside 
DeBartolo comp. lab doors. Call 
Harriet at 596-0622 to identify and 
clalm,or tv msg at WSND (631­
7342) 
Lost a Gold Chain Bracelet of great sentimental value ...Piease, If found. call MARl at X296911 :( Thanks. 
LOST! Gold/Black onyx ring on Fri. 
9/1 In back of Apt.1635 Turtle 
Creek. Great sentimental value. 
Reward. Carolyn 271-2314. 
Found-
Set of Keys by Admin. Building. 
Running Shoe Key Chain. 
Chris x1899 
Found: Lady's watch in laundry @ 
St: Michael's. Call Stan@ 631­
8105 to identify. 
WANTED 
Sales Help Needed -Long Distance Service needs Reps to sell to stu­dents and their families. Can be done part time from room or apart­ment. Potential for Immediate com­missions, management bonuses and long term residual income. We offer tremendous value to the cus­tomer and training and support for our Reps. Call Mike at 616-521­3620. 
Students wanted to promote the most killer Spring Break Trips on campus. Earn high $$commissions and free trlpsll Must be outgoing and creative. Call immediately 1­800-SURFS-UP. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­
Earn up to $2,000+/month on 
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­
nies. World travel. Seasonal & full­
time employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more 
Information call 1-206-634-0468 
ext. C55841 
WANTED II Authentic N.D. Stadium seat offered by Athletic Dept. 
I DESPERATEL Y need to buy one -but they're SOLD OUT! PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11 Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) M-F 8-5cst (708)325-8700 Thanks. 
Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr. 2:30-6:30 any alt. Must drive. Call 257-1411 evens. 
PT/FT -International 

multi-million $ company looking for sports minded, sell-motivated, atti­tude-driven Individuals to help expand Northern Indiana territory. Flex hrs., excellent pay, training provided. For Interview call 277­5289 
RELIABLE STUDENT WHO 
ENJOYS CHILDREN NEEDED ONE THURSDAY MORNING PER MONTH IN CHURCH NURSERY. TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED, $5 HOUR.. FIRST DATE: 9/28, 9-11:30 A.M. CALL 287-4002. 
WANTED: An Asst. Cook, Servers, Dishwashers, and a Cleaning per­son. Call the North Village Landing for your Interview. 272-8180. 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best Trips & Pricesl Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Florldal Spring Break 
Travell1-800-678-6386 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 
Lead Guitarist Looking for Band Call Flynn x-1007 
Business oriented men and women. Gain marketing ex­perience and earn $'s at the same time. Fit your schedule part time. call Ron 272-7147 
Grad Student Ticket Lin Were yo Knocked Over? Intimidated? Poked? Or just an observer to the drunkenness, arguing, and near rit? Either this year or last Make your voice heard. E-mail 
msheliga@bach.helios.nd.edu 
FOR RENT 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR 
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 
272-6306 

HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 
232-2595 

3 BDRM house, 5 min drive to 
NO campus. $150/rm/mon. plus 
utility costs. Call 272-7376 
2 BDRMS, USE OF ALL UTILI­TIES, KITCHEN, W/0, $250/MO. QUIET N/HOOD. NEAR CAMPUS. PAUL 232-2794. 
Am available in 3 bdrm home 
$240 Inc. utilities. 5-min. drive. 
631-4809 or 232-7175. 
HOME CLOSE TO NO GOOD 
AREA2n3097 

LUXURY LAKE HOUSE AVAIL­ABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEK­ENDS. SLEEPS 10. JACUZZI TUB, STEAM ROOM, FULLY FUR­NISHED. $1,500.00 PER WEEK­END. 30 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. 219-295-6261 DAYS. 616-476­2459 EVENINGS. ASK FOR LES. 
FOR SALE 
1985 Honda Hatchback 
$1000/Best offer 708-957-1546 
(Chicago) Ask lor Pete. New Tires 
& Brakes. 

2 ROOMS AT ST. MARYS INN 
SEPT. 15 & 16 

RACHEL 303-796-8280 
RUST LOVESEAT, CHAIR & OTTOMAN. $200 TAKES ALL. 291-5160. 
RIT TICKET TO L.A. 
OCT 14-22 
$260 o.b.ol 
Jamie x2498 Mac LC & Printer StyleWriter 4 MB, 40 MB HD, 11.5 in Color monitor, Excel , Word , ClarisWorks, Hypercard. Asking $ 1000 or B/0 (232-5236) 

MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system Including printer only $499. Call1-800-289-5685. 
Packard Bell 486SXCPU 4 megaby1es-color monitor­Wordperlect 6.0-CD ROM­Soundcard-color printer-1 yr. old $1700 256-6982 (before 4:00) 
TICKETS ., 
I NEED 2 TEXAS GA'S CALL DAVID@ 272-7327 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061, 24 HRS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED 

GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. 
BUY' SELL 'TRADE 
(219) 232-0058-24 HRS. 
BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. andWASHINGTON A MUST PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN........ 2771659 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. 

CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, 
EXT. 8796. 

I need 2 Texas G.A.s Dad won't pay for my last semester unless I get these tickets. Call Bob x4040. 
Need 2 BC tix. Student or GA. 
Kevin x4040. 

I have 3 friends who have never 
NEVER seen a Notre Dame garneill Please help these poor, 
unfortunate souls with tix for USC. Good prices paid for any available 
tickets. Call Jim x1739. 

Desperately need USC tlcketslll 
3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student 
Please call Chris at 288-7843. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. 

Desperate and Wealthy! 
Call 1 -800-223-2440 Ext.4370 
$$$$$$ 
need vanderbilt tickets 

GA's or married student tix 
call Dan @ 273-4780 

Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 
NEED NO-TEXAS GA 
OR STUDENT TlX. 

CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. 
NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & 
PURDUE GA'S. 
219-422-6088. 

I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI 
PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729. 
Need GA's & Student Tx for USC. 
Call Rich at 277-4755 

NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS­
NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL­
LAR. (610)995-9671 

FOR SALE TICKETSIIII 
G.A. S ALL GAMES ....... 272-72331111111111 
CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT? 
NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT 
TOP DOLLAR PAID 
CALL KELLI X4044 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Former NO student needs SIX 
Texas GAs. Name your price. 
Call Ryan at (608) 849-7702 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE 
CALL KATIE@ 219-271-9856. 
THANKYOUI 

USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­
DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT 
219-271-9856. THANK YOUI WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817­738-5109 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA or student tickets for TEXAS! Call Sarah 273-6875 
Need 2 Vanderbilt GA's Call Ali x4541 
Need 3 GA's for Vandy and 4 lor UT-call Jeff X1828 
Need 2-4 tlx lor Texas. John 631­7204; 233-3412 
NEED STUDENT TIXIII VANDY, OSU, and NAVY 233-2289 
need 3 GA's 4 Vand. call x2855 
ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL (313)420-1208 dR (212)250-6513 (DAY ONLY). 
NEED TX STU-TIX FOR NO GRADII HE'S RICH NOW! JANINE -1549 
DESPERATE for 4 usc gas and 4 washington gas $$$ call ruth x3741 
I need 2 Vandy GA'sl Call Martha @ X4092 
HELP MElli 
I need 2 Texas GA's 273-6162 
NEED TICKETS 
4 VANDY G.A.' Call Sean x2153 
PAIR OF MARRIED STUD 
TIX BOOKLETS 4 sale call 273.0824 
Need BC or USC GAs -Call Jess 
@ X2785 
NO ALUM NEEDS 214 OSU TIX 
GA'S PREF. CALL MIKE 212-574­
1071 
Need BC & USC GA's & Stud 
Meg or Sue @4544 
Need Vandy Texas WA Stud & 
GA's Katie or Christy @ 4514 
TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336. 
Will trade 1 stud Vandy & Tax lor 
2 Navy GAs Ben x3305 
NEED: 
1 GA for Texas and 
1 GAforBC. 
call Christine @ 273-2580 
NEEDED: 
Five tix for Vandy---DA's or Stud's 
Call Mike@ X0610 
Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. 
Please call Cheryl x4883 
For Sale: Vandy GA's 
Mark 273-6048 
I have tickets for every home game. I need 2 TEXAS GA's. If you want to trade call277-3609. 
HELPIII NEED TWO GA'S FOR ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME CALL BILL AT x3559 
Need Texas GA and Stud. Tix 
Eric 233-4435 
NO student needs Texas and Navy tickets for family driving REALLY far to get here-Please call Kerry @ 634-2925 
2 married std Ilk book 4 sale 271­
0783 
I need 2 Navy GA's. 
Call Katie at 273-0122 
2 Stud Tik Bks 
for sale together or separate 
289-2846 any1ime 
leave msg 
I NEED USC and OSU GAs! I 
HAVE stud tlx lor Vandy, BC to 
trade and/or $$1 Amy x4836 
I NEED VANDERBILT GA'S PLEASEIIIII CALL TRICIA @ 273-9840 
Needed one Vandy ticket 
Call Greg at 3889 #l#l#l#l@ FOR SALE 2 VANDY STUD TIX call and leave OFFER Tim x3889 1@#$"/o" 

xxxxxxxxxxx 
Need 2BC tickets for a priest and friend call TIM X3889 
xxxsxxxxxxx 
TRADE I 
2 VANDY and 4 NAVY GAs WILL TRADE FOR ANY TEXAS TIX. KEVIN x3254 
Need B.C. tickets$$$ Kevin x 1233 
I HAVE VANDERBILT STUD TIX FOR SALE 1·6696 
ATTENTIONIII NEED 4 VANDY GA'S FOR FAMILVII BIG $$$$ '"CALL ANNA @273-0962'" 
Need 2 tickets to Vanderbilt game. Call Cristina at 2475. 
Need 2 tickets for NO vs. Texas. Call Ken, collect at (405)677-8253 
NO Alum has 2 BC GA's to TRADE lor USC GA's. Call Brian (717)566­5856. Leave message. 
Need 4 USC GA's Katie X4088 
I have 1 VANDY GA. If you have a BC GA & want to trade, call Joe @x2257 
NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud tic to sell X2620 
I need one Texas stud ticket for friend flying from Texasll x2522 
Need 2 Student Tix and 2 GA's lor Texas. Call Dominic @ 273-8709 If you can help me out. 
#% $ Std Tix Book for Sale. 277­7876. $% # 
NEED TXS STD TIX -RON X0648 
I NEED 4 BC GA'S AND 2 STUD TIX CALL DAVID@ 272-7327 
lor sale: 2 student ticket books make offer on message. 271-7270 
Needed: Air Force, Vanderbilt, 
USC, Texas Tlx Call John at 
x1721 or x0642 
I NEED I TEXAS TICKET -STU­
DENT OR GA. PLEASE CALL 
KIRA@ 284-5502. PLEASE??? 
THANKSII 
Need USC GA'S 
1 USC stud. needed 
Matt 288-3823 
FOR SALE: 2 Texas GA's. 
WANTED: 2 USC GA's. 
Will buy sell or tradal 
Call Mike '90 MBA @ 233-9609 
TRADE-2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 USC/Texas GAs -Call 219-273­8379 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE 
CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 
I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, VANDY AND NAVY....lF YOU HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND WANT TO MAKE A TRADE ..... Call Tom at: 4-3893 
HEY I Need Vandy and Texas tickets call239-7959 ask for Mike 
I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI 
CALL JOHN @ 234-5n1 
NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 
II@VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@II 
Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbiltl GAs are ideal. Help her out and she will pay you the big bucksl Call her at 219-634-4203 and make her an offer. 
"&'%%$@#(Go Irish!)#@$%%'&" 
Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s for Texas tickets. Tom 634-1157 
DESPERATELY NEED B.C. stu­dent and GA tickets II Call Beth at 273-8334. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S AND 4 TEXAS GA'S: CALL KEVIN 234-3468 
HELPII I need Air Force ticketslllll Also Purdue, Ohio State, and any home GA's. Emily @ 273-9840. 
HELP! HELPI HELP! I need 2 G.A.'s to ANY game alter Fall Break. Will pay ANY price! II 
caH Scott @ x1105 
$1 need 2 Texas Ga's for my Dad$ $ Call Kate at 2900 
$ 
I NEED 2 VANDERBILT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 1-800-366-1687 ASK FOR KATHY AT EXT.129 
I need to 2 TX GA'sfll Call Christy at X2950. 
Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. Call Anne x4896. 
1@#$%1@11$%1@11$%1@11$%1@# I NEED 2-4 OH STATE GA'S CALL JAY COLLECT @ (614) 766-2012 
AFTER7PM 
1@#$%1@11$%1@#$%1@11$%@11 
NEED 2-PREFERABL Y 4 G.A.'s TO USC. GIVE MATT A CALL AT 4-2120. 
4 SALE: MARRIED STD TIX, SECT. 30, TOM@273-4228 
WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL­LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL­LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S. CALL TODD AT 4-1787. 
NEED VANDERBILT GA'S FOR 
FRIENDS FROM HOME. CALL JOE AT 4-1848. 
NEED: 1 OR MORE STD TIX ANY GAME ESP. TEXAS CALLX3232 
ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET 
FOR USC TEXAS OHIO STATE WASH ga's PERSONAL USE ONLY2n3097 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM 
AT X1899. 
Selling Married Stud Booklets 
232 4827 
NEED 4 TEX GA BIG $Chrlsx4010 
Need 4 GA's for Vanderbilt. 
Will pay big money. 
Call Joe at X1632 
NEED 1 Vanderbilt student ticket 
call Doug x1835 
WANTED: 2-3 Texas GAs; will 
trade BC GAs for them. (414)282­
0286 Brian 
I NEED TICKETS II II you are not using your tix for the Texas game (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL­LECT at (210)805-8355, alter 7 pm CST. 
AAA 
I really need 2 GA tickets lor the Navy Game lor my Grandparents coming here. If you can help please call me at 4-1959 
2 married & 1 single stud booklets 
4 sale. call219-631-8103 
NEED VANDERBILT GA'S AND TEXAS GA'S/ STUDENT TIX CALL AILEEN AT X4033 
Am willing to barter. haggle or pro­
vide entertainment for tax tlx, 233­
4925 David 
NO GRAD NEEDS TIXI 
LETTERMAN NEEDS 
4USC AND 6 TEXAS TIXI 
WILL PAY $$$$$1 
CALL MIKE X1824 
"'FOR SALE ... 
Four Vandy GA's 
Together on 15-yd line 
Call Bill at 291-6218 
Need 2 good tlx for any of the dates 10/21' 10/28, 11/4. (515)486-2517 
see CLASS I page 14 

~~--------------------------------------------------------­
Class 
continued from page 13 
Wanted two to four home game tickets. Call 
or write. 
314-731-7604 
GaryGoehl 
PO Box4152 
Hazelwood MO 63042 
I need 2 GAs for Texas Please cell Kathleen @4843 
For sale: 4 Bk Stud.nx Call Jane @287-7729 (B-12pm) leave msg , make offer 
Need NAVY student or GA for little sister. Call Carol @ 4-3828 
HELP! Need 1 Texas GA For DADIII Call Pete@ 1728 
need your texas tix erin 2326978 
Need 2 Vandy GA's Call271-9670 
PERSONAL 
JAZZERCISE 

trS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & STAY THAT WAY. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL277-0111 FOR MORE INFO 
Hey, youl I know you're interested in Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year is coming up soon. Mark your cal­endars: 
(9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune). 
All are welcome. Keep the faith and love alive. Be a part of the action. I'll see you 
there. 
DON'T JUST SETTLE FOR ANOTHER PREDICTABLE DATEIII 
DON'T MISS CREATIVE DATING SEMINARIII TONITEI 8:00p.m. LaFortune Ballroom 

THE ORIGINAL GAY/LESBIAN STUDENT SUPPORT GROUP WILL HOST ITS FIRST MEETING THURSDAY, SEPT. 14 AT 7:30PM. CALL THE Q-LINE AT 287-6665 FOR LOCATION. 
S tudboy Dave in search of E xtra spicy lover,call me x401 0 for Xtacy 
Rich 
Why are you so sweet? 
You make my heart smile and my soul 
laugh 
I'm so glad we're friends, too. 
Peace and love,Tracy Kathleen S-Thanks a bunch! You're a sweetie, Luv, Kathryn 

ToOREO­You're one sweet cookie! I love you & I can't wait until next week. XOXO Kathryn 
Varisty Chess Player? I?!? How did you anage to develop PECS-OF­STEEL? Did you really run a mile in 8th grade?-Varsity fisher 
( @#'(#$"()$%($%$#)( 
So, which sport did you get sick from any­
way?Was it ... Basketball??? Baseball??? Football????? Track???? 
!@'#&$(%"'(#$'"(%"'( 
The American Cancer Society is sponsor­ing a 5K & 1 0 K Breast Cancer Awareness Run on 9/30 in downtown Mishawaka. If interested call Nicole@ x1318. 
Do you think that feminists can't be pro-life? Think again. 
Feminists for Life meeting Wednesday, September 13 at 
Do you think that feminists can't be pro-life? Think again. 
Feminists for Life meeting Wednesday, September 13 at 7:30p.m. in the CSC Lounge.7:30 p.m. in the esc Lounge. Now you know why evil will always triumph! Because good is dumb! 
Do you play Magic (M:tg) I'm trying to com­pile a list for playing, trading, and tournaments. If interested, contact Nick at 234-0783 or E-mail me at Nicholas.Kanaras.1 @nd.edu 
Kiddo, 
How is Bean Town? Good thing you gave me your address. Life without The Observer would be hell!! 
-An lllinios Farmer 

Its as refreshing as the Northern Wisconsin woods and its all over my floor. 
Ma Dom wants to thank everybody for the serenade-she'll be back Nov.4. 
Wanted: 3 women to fan Sultan's Pillow Couch. Pays very well. Apply within. 
Go ahead Rex. Keep crackin' wise. That's why you're jockeying behind the desk at some gaddang local dormitory instead of living in a steady apartment. 
-Winoski 
#812 

Frank C. likes men. 
If you see Brian Dominic give him some spare change cause he is kind of home­less. 
Lily­' know you may be feeling left out with the addition of the makeshift hideaway, but don't worry old girl because I'll still be com­Ing with the special sauce. 
College Republicans 
First Meeting changed to 
• 
Wed. Sept. 13 at 8:00 in 127 Nieuwland. 
C.ountdown: Two days til Margie's big birth­day bash. 
Bridgey -hope you're feeling better. 
Monkey ... gorilla ... baseball bat... What's next? TOTEM POLE??? 
I lerve you Leazer, Bridge and Marge. 

Juster -you're -ss is mine! Just wait til I get my hands on your backpack. 
Tea is gross. I hate tea. 
Practice random acts of kindness and senseless acts of beauty. 
Margie wants finger tun!!! Anyone interested? 
The willage is a node in the nexxus of Indian society. 

Farler rocks MC 4N with Edward -----hands. :) 
Clara Ann -miss you!! We need to "cetch up" sometime. 
M-anne, Mr. SMith and I are tight now; Beware of a kidnapping... 
To my Tutor-Super Thanks! What would you like in return? -Cecil 
Don't be Cantankerous MPC, and neither will I be. Good Luck Domani, 
Love your Christie 
HEYMAMY! Someone hairy wants you! Guess who? 
Dear Crazy D, Keep your extra senses to yourself! -3N 

Shut up Gital! Do you miss your dad? I miss him, too!. Come to our next SAW din­ner -5:45 Monday at North. 
Hello Gil from Allison and Kira. 
Nice game Erin and Jon. I think you ate your Whesties for dinner. 
Who is totally ditraught with the CSC. I feel like such a loser for being rejected by them. I just want to help. 
Do you think that feminists can't be pro-life? Think again. 
Feminists for Life meeting Wednesday, September 13 at 7:30p.m. in the CSC Lounge. 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 



EUROPE • AFRICA • ASIA Scholarships & Grants 
Division of International Programs Abroad Syracuse University, 119a Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244--4170 
1-800-235-3472 • OIPA@suadm in.syr.ed u 
Attention sophomores!! 
Get involved in 1995-1996 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a sophomore chairperson. This is your chance to get 
involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't let this opportunity go to waste, apply nowl 
•Applications 
are now available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 

•Applications 
must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 22nd. 


Wednesday, September 13, 1995 The Observer • PROFESSIONAL SPORTS page 15 

Vote creates labor peace 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK ·Labor p(,ace appeared likely in the NBA after players reject• ed by a nearly 2-to-1 margin the effort to eliminate their union. 
"f would hope the player reps look at that and ratify the agreement," union head Simon Gourdine said after the votes were counted Tuesday at the National Labor Relations Board. 
Player representatives are to meet in Chicago on Wednesday and vote on a six-year collec· tive bargaining agreement, NBA commissioner David Stern predicted owners will approve the contract by next Monday at the latest nnd lift the lockout imposed July 1. 
If the deal is approved, train­ing camps would open as scheduled on Oct. 6 and the season would begin on time on Nov. 3. Since the lockout, teams were barred from nego­tiating player contracts. 
Among the 421 eligible vot· ers, 226 voted to keep the union and 134 voted to decer­tify. The pro-union forces, which were supported by Stern and got 63 percent of the bal· lots, said the vote was tanta· mount to a referendum on the labor agreement. 
'l don't think there is a signif­icant group out there any more that is against this deal," Stern said. 
Daniel Silverman, the NLHB's New York regional director, said the results will not be offi· cinl until Sept. 19. The losing side may file objections to the way the vote was conducted. 
The NLRB would then take four to six weeks to determine whether the objections are valid. 
"Of course, I'm disappointed by the vote," said Jeffrey Kessler, the lawyer: for players seeking to decertify the union. "I still believe this is a terrible vote for the players and they will regt·et it for (t long time.'' 
Kessler's group, which includes Michael Jordan and Patrick Ewing. will decide whether this week whether to challenge the election. The overwhelming vote may cause the group to give up the fight, which began June 21. 
"A lot of the players got intimidated by the threat of the owners that the season was going to end," Kessler said. "The strategy the NBA carried out was effective." 
Stern denied the NBA had coerced players to support the union. 
"This is a perfectly legal lock­out," he snid. "We did nothing that is wrong." 
The dissidents think players could get a better deal by dis· solving the union and fighting the NBA in court. The group filed an antitrust suit in Minneapolis on June 28, but appellate courts ruled players can't proceed with nntitrust cases If they are unionized. 
"The players want to play basketball." said Buck Williams of the Portland Trail Blnzers. the president of the NBA union. "We believe we got a fnl.r agreement." 
While baseball. the NFL and the NHL have been Interrupted by strikes and lockouts over the past 25 years, the NBA did not have a job action until this summer. 
Players who voted against decertiflcation said they were concerned the NBA could turn down the same path as base· ball, which experienced a 20 percent attendance drop fol­lowing the 7 1/2-month strike. 
"People came up to me and said, 'Don't do what baseball did,' " said Charles Smith of the New York Knicks, the union's vice president. "We want to make sure the NBA (season) starts. That played a part ofit." , 
Some players who supported the union would prefer to have their negotiators go back to the table and get a better deal. 
"l have nothing to get from the owners," Stern said. "They gave it all." 
Players voted Aug. 30 and Sept. 7 but the ballots weren't counted until Tuesday. One by one, NtRB staff pulled the green ballots from a tan card· board ballot box and called out "yes" or "no." 
With Gourdine and Kessler sitting at the table as witness· es, it immediately became clear that the "yes" votes ..... in favor of the union -would easily prevail. 
"( got nervous waiting for a while," Williams said. 
Union officials and the league first reached an agreement on June 21 and owners approved it. But tlie union's player rep· resentatives, under pressure from the Jordan·Ewing group, refused to take a vote when they met June 23 and instruct· ed Gourdine to go back to the bargaining table. 
Professor Scott Appleby, Associate Professor of History and Director of the Cushwa Center for Study of American Catholicism 
• NFL 
'Steel Curtain' not affected by new rules 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Greg Lloyd said it first -very loudly and very emphatically ­and coach Bill Cowher agrees: Nobody, not even NFL officials, will disrupt the way the Pittsburgh Steelers play defense. 
Adjust to the NFL's newly strengthened rules to protect the quarterback? Maybe. But alter the blitzing, attacking style that got the Steelers to the AFC title game last season? 
"No, no, no, no -we over­come it," Cowher said Tuesday, displaying the same emotional passion he normally reserves for the sidelines. "If we get a penalty, they get a first down and we just line up and try to stop them three more downs. But we will NOT change the way we play foot­ball." 
The Steelers cannot worry that officials, subconsciously or not, might be overly protective Monday of Dolphins star Dan Marino, according to Lloyd. 
The intriguing matchup of the AFC's best offense (Miami) against its best defense (Pittsburgh) is already being promoted as a possible preview of the AFC championship. 
"Dan Marino?" Cowher said, his eyes widening and bright­ening at the very mention of the name. "I don't think so. I think the officials are too pro­fessional for that." 
Regardless, the Steelers clearly have found it difficult to tone down their aggressiveness 
to  fit  the  expanded  rules  
designed  to  protect  quar­ 
terbacks.  

Tied for the NFL lead in penalties (19) with the Lions and Jets, the Steelers drew eight defensive penalties in the second half Sunday in Houston. One was a roughing the passer call on Lloyd, who was fined $12,000 for a preseason hit on the Packers' Brett Favre. 
The fine and penalty hardly seem to have stifled Lloyd's attack-first style, just as Cowher hope they wouldn't. 
"I will try to knock (Marino) into next week," Lloyd said. "If the officials want to call a penalty, so be it. Are we going to go after Marino? What do you think? We are not going to play passive defense. 
"(The league) shows all those super hits of guys getting knocked around and knocked out of bounds and hit and spin­ning in the air. They show that to the fans before the game. As soon as we do that, they t.hrow a flag. That's very hypocritical. Until they get their act togeth­er, they can't say anything to me -nothing they say to me or any fine they levy on me." 
Lloyd's attitude? If the penal­ties come, they come. 
"Don't be surprised every week on there are penalties galore," he said. "Because we're not going to sit back and play passive defense, let some quarterback just stand back there and never put pressure on him." 
Cowher wants pressure, and he wants aggression, but said the Steeiers can have both and still not be overwhelmed with penalties. 
"We're going to play the game the way we know how to play the game," he said. "We are not going to change the way we play football. It's like basketball; if the oflicials are calling hand-checking, you have to adjust. In football, you have to be able to adjust ... but we will not change the way we play football." 
Meanwhile, All-Pro corner­back Rod Woodson underwent surgery Monday in Vail, Colo., to repair the torn anterior cru­ciate ligament in his right knee. 
Woodson is not expected to play again this season, but, at his request, has not been put on the injured reserve list. Woodson still has faint hopes of playing should the Steelers reach the Super Bowl. 

(lMPUS
MINISTRY 
on 

THE BLESSED MOTHER AND 
THE SIGNS OF THE TIMES Wednesday, September 13 Hesburgh Library Lounge 7:30p.m. 
(next to the library auditorium) 
ALL WELCOME! 
Attention All Marketing Majors: 
FIRST MARKETING CLUB MEETING 
7:00pm Tonight! 
Downstairs Lounge -Business Building Free Pizza and Pop· 
We will discuss: 
·Resume Book ~ l ·Fundraiser 
·Internship and Job Possibilities ·Bring $10 dues for the year (includes Resume Book) 
~~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Despite arrest, Phillips could return to Cornhuskers 
By DAVE ZELIO 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

Nebraska star Lawrence Phillips was charged today with assault, trespassing and de­struction of property in con­nection with an attack on his ex -girlfriend. 
Phillips, considered a top Heisman Trophy contender, was scheduled to be arraigned later today in Lancaster County Court. 
Coach Tom Osborne kicked Phillips off the team shortly after his arrest Sunday night, but later said there was a possi­bility the running back could rejoin the second-ranked Cornhuskers. 
The coach took no disciplinary action against. backup running back Damon Benning, who was arrested a day before Phillips on suspicion of assaulting a woman. 
Lancaster County Attorney Gary Lacey said he had not yet reviewed the police reports in the Benning case and has not made a decision on whether to file formal charges against the player. 
The assault charge alleges Phillips hit a woman Sunday at the Lincoln apartment of Nebraska quarterback Scott Frost. Lacey said the property charge alleges Phillips hit some mailboxes with his fist or body as he left the building. The damage was estimated at $327. Lacey said he has not spoken with the woman, Katherine McEwen, a sophomore on the women's basketball team. 
P-olice  said  · she  has  left  
Nebraska for her own  pro­ 
tection.  
University  officials  said  

Phillips, who had three brushes with the law, was dismissed from the team because he vio­lated an agreement with the coach. 
"My understanding is that he 

"Our Lady on 
the Dome" As the river called "St. Joseph" flows softly towards its end it turns eastward at a city aptly named "South Bend" 'Twas here Fr. Sorin founded a 
university 

or the glory of God's reign lie named it for "Our Mother" Notre Dame-Notre Dame 
. . . So begins a beautiful eight stanza poem that belong~ in every fan's home and office. Suitable for framing, the tribute is bordered in blue and gold. 
The spirit of the University sin­cerely expressed-makes a cher­ished gift. 
Send personal check or money order to: 
Pat O'Block, P.O. Box 306, 
LaGrange, IL 60525 
Allow l 0 days to 2 weeks for deUvery.

r-----------------------,
1Name 1 
I ----~----~-------. 
1Address 1
I ~-------~-------1 
1'c·1ty _______state __z·1p __ •1 
1 -.
lNumber of poems@ 12.95* each ___ : l Total l
I ----~1 
l $2.50Total S&H _____: : I GrandTotal _____ 
1 
L*$1.00 from each saie will be donated to: LI the Notre Dame Scholarship Fund I 1 
----------------------~ 
was told, 'Any more problems and that's it," Herb Howe, an associate to the chancellor, told the Omaha World-Herald. 
On a radio talk show, Sports Day Mid-America, athletic director Bill Byrne said: Lawrence has an agreement with Tom as far as what his behavior is going to be. And once he violates that depending on the understanding, there's going to be consequences. And the consequences in this case were that Lawrence Phillips was dismissed from the football team." 
Osborne said Monday that Phillips could return to the sec­ond-ranked Nebraska team this year. 
"There's a possibility he might still play some this sea­son," Osborne said. "He'd have to get certain things done. It certainly wouldn't be any time soon. He may not play at all." 
Osborne said backup tailback Damon Benning will play this week despite being arrested on suspicion of misdemeanor assault Saturday after allegedly grabbing and pushing a woman at his Lincoln apartment. Osborne said he believes Benning is innocent and was defending himself. 
Osborne spent hours Monday discussing the arrests of his top two running backs. Off-field problems have become a famil­iar subject for Osborne, who is preparing for the home opener Saturday against Arizona State (1-1). 
Two other Cornhuskers also face criminal charges: Tyrone Williams, charged with felony weapons violations, and Riley Washington, awaiting trial on a charge of attempted second­degree murder. Williams con­tinues to play for Nebraska, and Washington has been allowed to practice. 
The weekend arrests stunned fans of the defending national champions. Home games have been sold out at Memorial Stadium since 1962 for an NCAA-record 201 consecutive games. 
Hours before the alleged assault, Phillips rushed for 206 yards and four touchdowns against Michigan State. Tabbed an early Heisman Trophy con­tender, he was the nation's third-leading rusher last year with 1,722 yards. 
Osborne said he dismissed Phillips after determining the player was involved in an assault. 
"Lawrence and I have agreed on what happened and there's no question -I wouldn't call it a beating -but he certainly did inflict some damage to the young lady," Osborne said. "She was dragged down some stairs and there were some injuries." 
Phillips, 20, a junior from West Covina, Calif., turned him­self into police Sunday after the early-morning incident at Frost's apartment. 
Police said Phillips climbed into the third-floor apartment, hit the woman and dragged her to the building's foyer. Residents pulled him away. 
Earlier this year, Phillips pleaded innocent to misde­meanor assault, disturbing the peace and vandalism after a fight with another student. He entered a pretrial diversion program and paid the student $400. In July he pleaded guilty to disturbing the peace and was fined $50. 
Benning, who missed the Michigan State game with a pulled hamstring, was arrested at his Lincoln apartment early Saturday. 
Benning said his 19-year-old ex-girlfriend came to his apart­ment and threatened to dam­age his car. He said she pushed him in the door, threw rocks at him and ripped his shirt. 
"If I had any physical contact with her at this point, it was only to hold her off of me," he said in a statement. 
Benning is scheduled to appear in court Sept. 27. 


BEFORE TRUSTING YOUR FUTURE TO ANY COMP~ ASI< FOR SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE. 
""\.Tau put more than just your savings into a 
.1. retirement company. You put in your trust and hopes for the future, too. So before you choose one, ask some questions. How stable is the company? How solid are its investments? How sound is its overall financial health? 
A good place to start looking for answers is in the 
ratings of independent analysts. Four companies, all 
widely recognized resources for finding out how 
strong a financial services company really is, gave 
TIAA their top grade. 
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA IS LEITER PERFECT. 
TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. Best Co., AAA from Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co., Aaa from Moody's Investors Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. These ratings reflect TIAA's stability, sound investments, claims-paying ability and overall financial strength. (These are ratings of 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
insurance companies only, so they do not apply to CREF.) 
And TIAA-which, backed by the company's claims-paying ability, offers a guaranteed rate of return and the opp~rtunity for dividends-is one of a handful of insurance companies nationwide that currently hold these highest marks. 
CREF, FOUR MORE LEITERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW. 
For further growth potential and diversification, there's the CREF variable annuity, with seven different investment accounts to give you the flexibility you want as you save for the future. 0 
Together, TIAA and CREF form the world's largest p~ivate retirement system based on assets under management, with over $145 billion in assets and more than 75 years of experience serving the education community. For over a million and a half people nationwide, the only letters to remember are TIAA-CREF. 
"Not all accounts are available under the basic retirement plans at all institutions. They are, however, all available for TIAA-CREF Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRA.). CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services. 
Wednesday, September 13,1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
,. 

The Hammes Open Monday -Saturday 9am to 5 pm NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE Special Orders · "on the campus CD and Cassette Accesories 

.. 
IIGGTI\ild"~~ RWJ~t~ti~l~fjR~ 
NATALn MEWAffT L£HHt KRAVIT1. 
t1gerlily circus 
~ll~f! 'O~l~U~L~~UL 'tftrL t~VMi mqt[{~~ftU BLU~ TIAfELER 2. PA'
four rne against the world 
PEAI!Lio{AM AWifiJ!I!~QI 
"'~eMAJIN!!IiJI ~~M§~ MATTHEW ~ttl~t tun ~IIA!,an!~ ALArtr~ MGUWm *L MtLUM
Jagged little pill let your dim light shine 
~~~§'t~ 
• 
'

~smp:l~M'-"
r-------------------------------------, 
: The Hammes S DO ANY REGULAR PRJCED, FULL-LENGTH : I Ns~'ifis~~~i • CD OR CASSETIE IN STOCK! I 
I "on the campus ftl[jl ~~~ I 
1 UJ~ ~~ ~ lhiscouponexpli~Sepiem~r Jll. 199) 1 
L-------------------------------------~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
Change 
continued from page 20 

and part of the team played very well and part played pret­ty good and the other part had its moments," Dowhower said. 
Vandy's offense will continue with its quarterback platoon system as Dowhower switches junior Ronnie Gordon with sophomore Damian Allen. Neither has enough passing experience, he said. 
Northwestern's upset of Notre Dame Sept. 2 and Holtz's absence might create an opening for Vanderbilt, which hasn't had a winning season since 1982 and only three since 1969. 
A victory would mean a lot for the Commodores, usually last in the Southeastern Con­ference, in their first game ever against the Fighting Irish. 
"In certain circles around here, it would be awfully big," Dowhower said. 

Belles 
continued from page 20 

seven kills, two blocks, and 14 digs. Lawrence and Prosser were also key in the game. 
Sophomore Meg Kelly felt that "the seniors were a big help during the game and they were the biggest key." 
Heidelberg's coach Nicky Mu­drak thought her team's major problem was their consistency. 
"We play really good against one team and poorly against others," Mudrak said. "Our mental toughness isn't there on a day to day basis." 
While Saint Mary's was much improved against Heidelberg, they will have to maintain this level of performance for this weekend when they travel to Ohio Northern University for a tournament. This tournament is filled with top teams in this region including Ohio North­ern, Thomas Moore, Musking­ham, Rochester Institute of Technology, Center College, Wittenburg, and Hanover. 
They all boast imposing squads, but the Belles have not faced them in the past. Schroeder-Biek knows little about these teams and wanted to get in this tournament due to the high level of play. 
Davie 
continued from page 20 

Roberts. "If you execute prop­erly, you really can't call a bad play. You've got to be able to do what your players are capa­ble of doing. We'll do whatever is within the framework of the offense and just continue with that and get better. There may be a wrinkle or two that hasn't been used in a game." 
And while the Irish will by no means resemble Florida State in terms of gadget-plays, Roberts can be counted on for some variation. 
"You've to do what you're comfortable. He (Holtz) has done some great things but I've got to be Dave Roberts and we've got to do some things within the offense. We have a lot of weapons and we do a lot of things. Some of them haven't been showed." 
And while Roberts and Davie may not want to feel over­whelmed with their new situa­tion, they, especially Davie, realize the prestige of the job. 
"I happened to see ESPN and they talked about just what it means to be the head football coach at Notre Dame," Davie said. "I definitely don't look at myself as being the head football coach of Notre Dame. But it does put things into perspective when you see how much media attention it gets and it is humbling. It is something I'm proud of but I'm not going to make a big deal out of this. 
''I'm just going to do every­thing I can so that when Lou Holtz comes back, we're going to have this thing in as good of situation as it is. I'm just going to do the things I can do and control the things I can con­trol." 
A Rudy Redux 

For the first time in recent 
years, walk-ons are playing a 
significant role for the Fightin' 
Irish on Saturdays. 

In last week's contest at 
Purdue, senior walk-on safety 
Mark Monahan, who was 
recently rewarded with a 
scholarship, came up with a key interception in the fourth quarter to help preserve Notre Dame's victory. 
In addition, junior split end Scott Sollmann, himself a walk­on, hauled in a 15-yard touch­down pass from Ron Powlus earlier in the game. Incidentally, Sollmann is a star centerfielder for the Irish base­ball squad. 
Cranky Cramps 

With a severe lack of depth at many positions, fatigue-induced cramps are a true concern for the Irish. 
Last week saw defensive end Renaldo Wynn, nose guard Paul Grasmanis and cornerback Allen Rossum all succumb to cramping late in the game. 
"We just have to make sure we substitute earlier in the game to prevent this," Davie said. "It's something we need to avoid." 
Commodore Clash 

Saturday will mark the first game ever between Vanderbilt and Notre Dame but the schools are not without connections. 
Notre Dame president Father Edward "Monk" Molloy, C.S.C., received his doctorate from Vanderbilt. Vanderbilt is also the alma mater of Grantland Rice, who penned the legendary 'Four Horseman' story. 
Injury Update 

ommsive guard Jeremy Akers is the oHly significant Irish injury. He should miss another month of action with torn knee ligaments. 
Linebacker Kinnon Tatum missed the Purdue game with an aggravated hamstring but has practiced since Monday and should start for Notre Dame. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Obseruer ad. 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications: 
Photo Editor 
Please submit a one page statement of intent and resume to John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, by Wednesday, September 13. Call 1-4542 with any questions. 
EARN EXTRA MONEY AS A GRADUATE OF THE H & R BLOCK INCOME TAX COURSE 
Thousands of people learn how to prepare income tax returns from H&R Block and then earn money as income tax preparers. H&R Block, the world's largest income tax preparation service, offers its Income Tax Course starting the week of September 11. Morning, afternoon, evening, and weekend classes are avail­able. 
Experienced instructors teach tax law theory, and applica­tion. Classroom discussion and practice problems pro­vide students with a thorough understanding of each tax topic included in the course. Students learn how to handle increasingly complex income tax situations as the course progresses. 
Ideal for people who want to increase their tax knowledge, the course teaches students how to save money on their taxes and also prepares them for a rewarding career. 
One course fee includes all textbooks and supplies. Graduates receive Certificates of Achievement and continu­ing education units (CEUs). Qualified graduates of the course may be offered job interviews with H&R Block but are under no obligation to accept employment. 
Those interested In more information about the H&R Block Income Tax Course may call 
1-800-TAX-2000 
or259-6925 
AC0039 

• 
adidas notre dame invitational
This should tide you over. 
5:00 p.m. -#3 Stanford vs. #9 Vanderbilt 
7:30 p.m. -#2 NOTRE DAME vs. #19 Michigan State 
This Sunday 

Noon -#2 NOTRE DAME vs. #3 Stanford 
2:00 p.m. -#19 Michigan State vs. #9 Vanderbilt 


Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 


What is AI-Anon? 
AI-Anon is a confidential support group for anyone affected. by the behavior of someone with a dn'nking problem. The group encourages members to adapt healthy patterns of living and to support them in spite of the actions of the alcoholic. 
.. 

Anyone who is an AI-Anon member and/or is Interested in becoming a member of a student At-Anon group, please contact: The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education at 631-7970 or St. Mary's Counseling Center at 284-4565 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
II=" l'tA \~ TI-lE PERIMETER Of I OECRt£. '(0\.J \-1~\/E l\:l W\S('X)l-.1, n\Et--1 I GEl TO CAK\-1 A WMER B~OON M~lo(E f>.. Dt.CR'C.£ 1\1fo..T I llii<:OW 1-\\G\-\ \N 
~~--1\-\E MR. 
DILBERT 
OUTWARDLY 1  YES,  I'M A  ~  
RAT  ~UT  MY  BUBBLY  v  
PERSONALITY  AND  MY  ~ 9  
UTTE.R LACK  OF SKILL  ~  
MAKE ME  LJE.LL-SUITED  ~  

fOR A CAREER IN.:.----.. i.: 
MARK(TING ! 

47 One of the 

Rotissere Chicken Quarters 
Get answers to any three clues
Iroquois 
Swiss Cheese Croquettes 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
49 Frontiersman 
Mixed Vegeta~les

5656 (75¢ each minute).
Carson 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, hased on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 9Y 
cents ~ minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR Lli<'E: You feel more settled, ahle to accomplish great things at both home and work. Your finances show steady improvement as 1995 draws to a close. A young person displays greater ambition than in lhe past. Offer encouragement, but do not try to take over. Your views on a con­troversial issue could put you al odds with older relatives. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Nell Carter, soap star Eileen Fulton, artist Robert Indiana, singer Mel Tonne. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): New job opportunities arise. Do not give up your present position before investigating these prospects thor­oughly. A relationship's future depends on how diplomatically you handle sensitive matters. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do not lei an expensive hobby put a dent in your savings. A pet could play a role in brightening your social life. Joint endeavors at work will indirectly benefit romance or family life. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Go with the flow of rapidly-shifting events: rich rewards will follow. Travel in pursuit of knowledge or to 
q.,J .... 
settle a legal matter. A parent-child connict can be ironed out. Offer a 
sympathetic ear. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Opinionated remarks can have unfortunate repercussions. Stay on your toes! Be diplomatic if someone asks your preferences. Taking fami­ly members into your confidence is an excellent idea. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An emotional confrontation will not hinder a relationship's growth if you are honest. Go through channels when pursuing a job assignment or loan. Be receptive to workplace changes and new technology. Update your skills. 
SCOTT ADAMS 

• 
OF INTEREST 


• 
Juniors and Sophomores come to Career and Placement Services office, lower level, Hesburgh Ubrary, for information about on-campus interviews for summer job opportunities, and for developing your resume. 

• 
Feminists for Life meeting today at 7:30 P.M. in 


the esc lounge. 

• If you are Interested in tutoring English to Hispanics in the Michiana area, please join us for an organizational meeting of El Buen Vecino this Wednesday, Sept. 13, at 7:00P.M. in the CSC. 
• If you are Interested In the lnnsbruck program, 
Professor Marie-Antoinette Kremer will be giving a lecture entitled "Stories from Abroad" atr 4;30 P.M. in 114 O'Shaughnessy. 
• September Is Clothe·a·Chlld month. 
Throughout September local Krogers, Martins, Notre Dame Credit Unions, K-Mart at McKinley, participat­ing Teachers Credit Unions, and the Kids Store will be selling Clothe-A-Child cutouts for $1. These figures may be signed and will then be placed on display to demonstrate community support for children in need. 
• Volunteers are needed to assist Special Olympians in swimming. Practice Is on TutJsday and Thursday from 4:30·5:30 P.M. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. For more information call Coach Dennis J. Stark at 1-5983. 
58 Diva Ponselle 59 Seven are 
•MENU 
deadly so She gets what 
Notre Dame 
she wants 
North 
61 Athena's 
Chicken Fajita Pizza 
shield 
Beef Ravioli 
62 Daytime 
Honey Baby Carrots 
show 
Saint Mary's 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) Spruce up your wardrobe if joh hunting. Courage helps you sur· mount a barrier. Look closely and you will find hidden benefits in a project that has gone sour. Think twice about changing your resi dence. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your popularity is on the rise, helping you move up in business. Reach out to people who can help you keep everything under control. Be logical and clear when giving instruction' Set specific goals for subordinates. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Joint financial affairs may be a bil complicated. A candid conversation will help clear up a misunderstand ing. Children need a steady but gcn tie hand. Tum your back on negative people. Give yourself a fresh start. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-De< 21 ): Someone you met a year agu re-enters your life. Travel and ne" friends add up to an enjoyahle autumn. Parties play an important role in your social plans. Do not ignore a legal commitment. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Partnerships are in the spotlight. Let loved ones carry the ball for you socially. Dealing with the practical side of a family arrangement will require patience. Set aside time to catch up on your personal pleasures. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. IBJ You could start the day with some misgivings about a friendship Refuse to become agitated when things do not run smoothly. A volatile situation will quiet down b~ tonight. If shoptalk proves boring change the subject! 
I'ISCES (Feb. 19-March 201 Today's events give you a chance 11, put your best foot forward. Promolv family ties while soft-pedaling yolll involvement in controversial activt ties. Give your mate or partner"' ideas a fair hearing. Keep spendith.' down. 
South Top Sirloin Vegetable Marinara. 
• 
Whipped Potatoes 

M/o.t-1. S\1'<: \)\CI<.EO IJP TI-\E N\JAI-o\CES Of \141'3 
GA~E FAST.' 
31 Auctioneer's cry 32 Three-toned 
musical chord 33-Gay 34Arrested 36 of Man 40 Honor society 
letter 41 Formal, but not too 42 Most prompt 

52 Wastes time 
54 Weasellike mammal 55 Folk singer 
Joan 56 Therefore 57 School subj. for 
environmental­
ists 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  28 Japanese  
. 1 Exclamation  lacquer box 30 Bird in the spring  
point  .  35 Needle case  

5 Nonvars1ty player 37 Jomt Chiefs 10 Sttnger member: Abbr. 14 Bit of fishing gear 311 Blackmore's 15 Produce a copy "-Doone" 
of 39 Pennsylvania HI Opposite of insurrection, aweather 1794 
17 Young Guthrie 43 Inventor Nikola 18 Networks 44 -king 19 Peruvian or 45 Spanish painter 
Ohioan city 4& Accommodates, 20 Homemade as a Pullman 
bomb 48 Escapade 23 Pout 50 Martial arts 24 "Smoking or degree 
-?" (walter's 51 Louvre pyramid query) architect 25 Photographic 53 TV ad award 1mage, for short 55 Lots of fun 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
&3 With the bow, to a cellist 64 Cream as Like some food orders 
&& Self-important people, ggl!oquially 
elMont--, Alpin~ invasion route to Italy aa Literary pen 
name 

&9 "N!'Im'l" writar 
10 Financial plus 
71 Woodworking 
tool 

DOWN 
1 Author Stoker 2 Dynamic start 3 ·Gwyn, 
sweetheart of 
Charles II 
4 and doom 1 Disheveled a Winier 
7 Campus military org. 8 K1nd of lal::)~l 8 Naval guide 
11 Inter ~ ­
1~ So~.jnd, as a bell 
21 French pronoun 
22 Sound, as a bell 
2' Salamand~rs 
i.7-+-=+:+.:1 ao Singl;lr Merman 11 Semblance 29 Ryan or Tatum 


SPORTS
p.age 20 
r=~--=--------------------------------------------------------------------, 
• IRISH fOOTBAI..l 

Two heads hopefully equal one 
Davie, Roberts take over reins in Holtz s absence 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 

The-re is an old adage that says 'two heads are better than one'. With Lou Holtz's absence due to spinal cord surgery, the only thing Notre Dame fans are asking for these days is that the two heads of Bob Davie and Dave Roberts equal the one of Holtz. 
The two men who are to in­h.erit the-brunt of the coaching duties in Holtz's absence are realizing that while they have an enormous responsibility, things will not change as much as one would think. 
"The most steadying influ­ence we can have is to keep things the way they have been" said Davie, whose role will expand from defensive coordi­nator to interim coach. ''I'm going to try and keep it as close to what we normally do so these kids can have a steadying influence." 
"This is obviously a unique situation for all of us," Davie added. "The important thing right now for this football team is to get focused and stay focused on Vanderbilt. We really can't control Coach Holtz's situation, but what we can do is help this football team get focused." 
Any time a team loses a reader like Holtz, emotional chords are bound to be struck. Davie is making sure that doesn't affect preparation. 
"We're not going to win the game on emotion, we're going to win it on execution and by following the plan Lou Holtz has already set for this football team," Davie noted. "It's not going to be a 'rah-rah' philoso­phy. You don't want to be on an emotional roller-coaster. So I'm going to do everything I can and these coaches are going to do everything they can to tem­per this emotion and be on an even keel." 
As much as the psyche of the 
• 
B.y KATHLEEN POLICY 
Sports Writer 

Last night, the Saint Mary's volleyball team defeated Hei­delberg College 15-10, 15-9, 15-8, improving their record to 2-2. 
Although there was much im­provement from the last time, Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek feels that the team still has a lot to work on due to their incon­sistency. 


team is a concern, so too is the actual logistics of the coaching situation. 
The defensive situation will really not be altered signifi­cantly, as Davie will continue in his current capacity of calling all defensive alignments, but his importance will obviously be magnified in other areas. One of the most significant changes will be the fact that Davie will now wear the head­set that allows him to hear all of the various assistant coach­es. 
"What you have to realize, is that as strong as Coach Holtz is, he still does things by committee," the 40-year old Davie said. "With those head­sets on, you can talk to a lot of different people. I'll listen to opinions, but the final decision on things like fourth-down plays will fall on my shoulders." 
The weight of the offense will fall upon Roberts, who is in his second year as the offensive coordinator of the Irish. Like Davie, he really doesn't foresee tremendous changes. 
"My feeling offensively is very similar to Coach Holtz's," said 
see DAVIE I page 18 
Wednesday, September 13, 1995 
• COU.EGE fOOTBAll.. 
Dowhower reacts to Irish change 
By TERESA. WALKER Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 
How No. 24 Notre Dame reacts to the loss of Lou Holtz is anyone's guess, Vanderbilt coach Rod Dowhower said Monday. 
''I'm sure it will be a very emotional game for them," Dowhower told sportswriters Monday at his weekly, pregame news conference. 
''I'm sure that will be some­thing that will be the question for Notre Dame players right up through the game." 
The Commodores (0-1) have enough problems getting ready for 'the Irish, who lost their opener to Northwestern and narrowly beat Purdue 35-28 last Saturday. 
Defensive coordinator Bob Davie will replace Holtz, and that could result in changes Vanderbilt can only guess at. 

"It's a different head coach," Dowhower said. ''I'm sure he might have some deep-seated things he wants to do that he hadn't been able to do. I don't know." 
The Commodores are coming off an open date following a 33-25 season opening loss to Alabama. Dowhower and his staff spent the past week try­ing to prevent mistakes .like five interceptions and one fum­ble. 
The defense forced its own share of turnovers against Alabama, coming up with four interceptions and one fumble that was returned for a touch­down. 
But facing Notre Dame in South Bend is the conclusion of a one-two opening punch for Vanderbilt. 
"It's not just another game for us. We're coming off a bye week where we're trying to get some things straightened out 
see CHANGE I page 18 
• SAINT MARY'S VOU.EYBAU. 
Belles straight set winners over Heidelberg College 

see page 15 

• 
Phillips may be back on 'Huskers see page 16 

• 
Steelers react to new NFL rules see page 15 


"The team needs to improve in transition, defense, and our form," said Schroeder-Biek. 
There were fewer blocks given up in the game as the Belles attacked more this game, and were much more aggres­sive which helped in winning points and sideouts. 
Schroeder-Biek feels that the team is still not clearing in the attack. 
"It's still not quite there," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Football 

vs. Vanderbilt September 16, 1:30 EST 
Volleyball 

at Mortar Board Premiere Sept. 15-16 West Lafayette, Ind. 
Men's Soccer 

at Rutgers Sept. 15/Seton Hall Sept. 17 
The team is going to have a specialized practice, dividing the team up between the two coaches pulling the setters and working the middles and the at­tackers. 
The key players were seniors Ann Lawrence, Kelley Prosser, and Sara Stronczek. Their leadership helped in the com­munication and especially in the team's play. Stronczek had 
see BELLES I page 18 
Women's Soccer 
vs. Michigan State September 15, 7:30 vs. Stanford September 17, Noon 
Cross Country 
at Ohio State September 15 


