
Thursday, February 9, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 83 ·THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
FBI calls Field narrows, run-off Fridaystudent Klau/Herczeg to face
to testify 
Patrick/McCarthy 
By lAURA FERGUSON Saint Mary's News Editor By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
While on October break last semester, Tanya Wilson a Saint Yesterday the tickets of Kevin Mary's senior visited Washing­Klau and Larissa Herczeg, and ton D.C. This spring break she Jonathan Patrick and Dennis will return to testify in a trial McCarthy ·earned spots in a regarding the Oct. 29 open lire Friday runoff to determine the 
on the White House. student body president and On that October afternoon, vice-president. Wilson and Esti Mutidjo, also a Klau!Herczeg garnered 28.05 
Saint Mary's student, were site percent of the vote (1050 votes) seeing at the nation's capital while Patrick/McCarthy took and attempting to take photos 26.82 (1004) percent. The two of the White House from Penn­were the only tickets in the 
sylvania Avenue. It was there seven-way race to collect more that they encountered a man than 20 percent of the vote. wearing a tan trench coat de­Rounding out the rest of the 
spite the warm weather. The voting; the Montoya/Fischer 

man was later identified as ticket received 15.82 percent ( Francisco Martin Duran who 592 votes), Kielbasa/Leahy re­opened lire on the white house ceived 12.40 percent (464) Col­1440 off-campus student cast they would not. The dorm Klau referred to lawn. ish/Brett took 8.04 percent ballots. "We're happy to still be in it," was Flanner Hall which went 
Wilson received a call during (301). Allen/Delaney captured In a campus wide referen­said Klau shortly after learning overwhelmingly for its co-presi­the Christmas holiday from an 6.89 percent (258). and dum, students said they would the news. "We received good, dents. Patrick/McCarthy took FHl agent who said that a sub­Mudry/Szarek managed 1.98 support the installation of cable solid support campus-wide, and their home dorm by storm, gar­poena from the prosecution percent (7 4). in dorm rooms. 60 percent of hopefully it will still be there nering 274 of the 337 votes cast was in the proces~ of being is­37 43 students or 48.04 per­those polled said they would Friday." there. The pair were encour­sued for the March 16 trial. cent of the student body cast pay one hundred dollars a year "If you take away the support aged by the results. 
votes Wednesday, down from to have cable in their rooms, of one dorm, this was a very "We'd like to thank everyone last year's 4,640. Only 46 of while roughly forty percent said different race," he said. 
see TESTIFY I page4 see RESULTS I page 4 


By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate fully sup­ports Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Col­lege (GI.ND/SMC), according to the resolution passed at last night's meeting. 
The resolution, which was presented by Co-Chair of GLND/SMC John Blandford had two main parts. It resolved that the Senate "recognize, sup­port, and respect the efforts of GLND/SMC" and that the Senate "strongly condemn the Uni­versity's action to expel GLND/SMC from campus and call upon the University to rec­ognize GLND/SMC as an inte­gral part of the Notre Dame community deserving of all rights and privileges afforded other campus groups." 
According to the resolution, on .January 23, GLND/SMC, was "barred by the Office of Student Affairs from further use of the University Counsding Center." 
"GLND/SMC has been allowed to ment in thn University Coun­snling Centnr since 1986 and had used this privilege respon­sibly," aeeording to the resolu­tion. "As an intellectual insti" tution, Notre Dame has an obligation to recognize the equality of all people regardless of gender, race, class, religion, ethnic, or sexual orientation," the resolution reads. 
"GLND/SMC has, beginning in 1985, repeatedly sought to reg­ister as a campus group and, just as often, has summarily been denied recognition," according to the resolution. 
Aecording to Student Body President David Hungeling, a group that is not recognized 

Resolution supports GLND/SMC 

Committee postpones coed dorm discussion 
ByDEBORAH SCHl.JLTZ 
News Writer 
Right now is not the time to fight administrations for coed dorms, the Gender Relations Committee decided. Due to the. present controversy over GLND/SMC, the Committee postponed their actions and their forum scheduled for later in the year. 
The committee met yesterday afternoon, following the Stu• dent Senate meeting, to discuss the forum and other bU$inessat hand. 
"[n order to do a project like this we need enthusiasm to re· search and plan, and over the past year I have personally watched our spirit die,'' said Hall Presidents' Council Co" 
by the University cannot ad­vertise, _receive funding, re­serve space for meetings, or sponsor lectures because they cannot put their names on posters. 
While speaking to the Senate, Blandford made reference to other colleges and universities which have recognized gay and lesbian groups. Blandford said that Notre Dame is "trailing the pack" on this issue. Blandford mentioned Georgetown Uni­versity, Fordham University, Loyola-Marymount, DePaul University, and the University of Dayton as having gay and lesbian groups. 
In speaking of Notre Dame and the administration's re-

Chair Rich Palermo. 
Rather than ~Qmpletely drop~ ping everything; the··cowrnittee plans onJorming alatger groupwith younger people to work. whh the newly.·elected· Senate officers. According to Palenno, this would prove bjijl).ef!cial for every()ne. v . . 
''Noone right now is 100% behind. this, so if we wait; w~ wilLhave more organiza:tJon and therefore have a gJ'e~ter impact" said Palt:lrrno. 
Although hesitant .that the building of the new dorms would ·create problems for·the committee, they qecided that it would still be better for the fo· rurn to be postponed. 
The group also discussed the 
see DORMS/ page 4 
sponse to GLND/SMC, Bland­ford said that there was "a ba­sic sense of fairness, a really good heart to this place," but that there was a negative mes­sage being "sent from the Dome." 
Blandford mentioned the Church's teaching about homo­sexuality, saying that the Church recognizes a distinction between homosexual persons and homosexual acts. 
"Notre Dame is not the Vati­can," Blandford said. "We're the research branch. We should be leading the Church in examining these issues." 
The resolution, which was 
see SENATE I page 4 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------------­
page 2 


Wake up, let's get passionate! 
Injustices.. .injustices, 
you say?  Melanie Laflin  
What?!  Where?!  How  News Copy Editor  
can this be!  Don't we  
have  a  say anymore?  

Shouldn't these injustices be stopped? Let's pick a cause! Let's be passionate about some­thing, for crying out loud! Let's make a differ­ence somewhere, somehow ... 
We're sick of standing back and watching life, its injustices, and its avoidable tragedies just pass us by. Granted, South Bend isn't a mecca for cultural diversity, social uprisings, massacres, chaos, or even minor misde­meanors. But hey, something must be going on...what's out there anyway? 
Are we content living like the bubble boy who could only look outside through his ster­ile plastic tent because the air outside might make him deathly sick? Yes, it's Notre Dame, yes it's freezing outside, yes this place is dead, but let's open our eyes! 
There's more to education than what we find in books, and it's not found staring at the bottom of a beer can. There's so much to do out there in the real world that it's over­whelming. Being socially aware about what's happening around you should be very impor­tant to you, after all, you're going to have to leave this !ala land one of these days. 
Why bother, you say. Well, I say let's give it a try ... 
Let's break the stereotype ...Let's all become wild, open-minded, radically liberal students with nose rings, tatoos, red hair, and refuse to buy anything from a J. Crew catalog. Or, how about we start treating everyone with differ­ent ideas from your own with respect and consideration. 
Unfortunately, it's so easy to forget there's a real world out there when you're trapped in the middle of nowhere where TV reruns, pizza, and hookups are the college norms. But let's take our education to another level...Let's fight, let's get angry, let's stir it up! 
Take a look at that big world! What about the many corrupt governments in Latin America that lead to innocents being killed over border disputes, while the neglected rest survive without homes and without hope. 
What about in our own backyard? Why do we let a bunch of immoral morons run our country? Should we let them just do what they want--a tax here, a bribe there... a politi­cal ploy here, a roll in the hay there... 
Are we overwhelmed yet? Hey, why don't we attack the ultra-conservative university policies? Let's fight for our independence! If we don't like single sex dorms, if we think parietals are for twelve year olds who need curfews, then let's do something about it! Let's chain ourselves to desks and send out the message that we're actually concerned with the present and our future. 
What?! The University cancelled next year's football season! That's certainly a rea­son to get out of your easy chair! Call in se­curity, thousands will march outside the admin. building for this one.:. 
What? False alarm, you say? Then don't worry, calm down. Go back to your books, get yourself another beer. 
You're not missing anything. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Viewpoint Nancy Dunn Michael O'Hara Ethan Hayward Graphics Sports Tom Roland Tom Schlidt 
Lab Tech Production 
Jenn Rezeli Heather Gibson 
Accent Tara Grieshop 
Kristin Nannery 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 9, 1995 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Three small earthquakes rattle California, Oregon 

Three small earthquakes shook quake at 12:46 a.m. PST was cen­
Northwest 
parts of Oregon and California within tered about 15 miles north of Los
quakes

an hour early this morning, but there Three small earthquakes Angeles, according to the California shook parts of Oregon and
were no immediate reports of injury Institute of Technology in Pasadena.
California early this morning,but there were no immediate
or damage. The three earthquakes David Hugunin was watching televi­
reports of injury or damage. 

were unrelated, the U.S. Geological Survey said. The strongest, of 4.0 magnitude, was reported at 1:36 a.m. PST, in Eureka, Calif., about 70 miles south of the Oregon state line, said Pat Jorgenson of the geological survey in Menlo Park, Calif. A Eureka police operator said only a few people had called and that no damage had been reported. A 3. 7 -magnitude quake at 
1:10 a.m. PST was centered 20 miles northeast of Salem, Ore., the geologj" cal survey said. And a 3.2-magnitude 
Peru rejects counter-proposal 
QUITO, Ecuador 

Peru has rejected an amended cease-fire proposal made by Ecuador, which is under pressure from Latin American and U.S. diplomats to accept a settelement in the nearly 2-week-old jungle border war between the two countries. Peru's Foreign Minister Efrain Goldenberg called the Ecuadorean offer "completely impertinent" and said it was "immediately rejected by the government of Peru." Ecuador had balked at signing an agreement worked out over the weekend in Brazil. Peru had already agreed to sign the accord. Peru's vice minister for for­eign affairs, Eduardo Ponce, said Ecuador's counter-pro­posal made changes in plans to demilitarize the conflict zone, but he did not give specifics. Peru has pressed for a five-mile-wide demilitarized zone. Ecuador has been willing to accept a zone just a half-mile wide.The presi­dent of Ecuador's Congress, Heinz Moeller, was to meet in Washington today with Undersecretary of State Peter Tarnoff. Both sides claim an unmarked 48-mile section of border in the Cordillera del Condor mountains on the eastern edge of the Andes, near the headwaters of the Cenepa River. The United States, Argentina, Brazil and Chile have indicated they are willing to send observers to the region once an agreement is reached. Ecuador's Defense Minister Jose Gallardo said Peruvian forces stepped up attacks against three bases on Tuesday, and Peru's Defense Ministry said a supply helicopter with three crew members disappeared in the combat zone. Peru says 22 of its soldiers have been killed or wounded in fighting. Ecuador said 11 of its soldiers have been killed and 26 wounded. 
Three charged in ATM scam 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

Four thieves took advantage of a computer glitch to commit one of the largest cases of automated teller fraud in the nation, withdrawing $346,770 on one stolen bank card, authorities say. The card was used 724 times over a 54-hour period in November. The ATM machines usu­ally limit withdrawals to $200 per day, but the limits weren't working that weekend because Oregon TelCo Credit Union was changing its computer software. "It was absolutely dumb luck on their part," said Jim Cline, a Secret Service special agent. Three people were arrest­ed Tuesday and a fourth was being sought. Police recov­ered $29,000 in cash. The card was in a purse that was stolen from a locked car outside a high school football game. The card's secret access code was written on a piece of paper in the purse. The thieves struck 48 cash machines from Portland to Albany, 70 miles away, mak­ing $820,000 in fake deposits to fool the credit union's computer into recording enough money to cover the withdrawals. Secret Service agents said it was one of the five largest automated teller fraud cases in U.S. history. 

sion when he felt the Salem temblor. "It wasn't a rolling tremor.... It felt like a shaking," he said. "I heard the walls creaking and it was fairly sharp." On Jan. 28, a 5.0-magnitude earthquake centered 10 miles south of Seattle was felt as far north as Canada and as far south as Salem, Ore. It was the largest earthquake to hit Puget Sound in 30 years, but caused no serious injuries or dam­age. 
Clinton names Carns new CIA head 

WASHINGTON President Clinton's choice for CIA director is described by colleagues as a defense intellectual with a flair for innovative thinking. The House and Senate committees that oversee the CIA's activities said Tuesday the White House had indicated that President Clinton intends to nominate retired Air Force Gen. Michael P.C. Carns, 57, as director of central intelligence. Carns, 57, would replace R. James Woolsey, who abruptly announced his resignation last December and left the post in early January with the CIA in turmoil over the size and shape of its budget, its future mission and internal strains. Carns, if confirmed by the Senate, would be the first mili­tary officer to head the CIA since Adm. Stansfield Turner in the Carter administration. Adm. William Studeman, who was deputy CIA director under Woolsey and has been the acting director since Woolsey left, would have to leave the deputy's post if Carns takes over, because the National Security Act of 1947 that created the Central Intelligence Agency says military officers may not hold the top two spots simultaneously. People who worked with Carns during his 35-year Air Force career said Tuesday they believed he would do well, even though he had never worked for an intelligence agency. "I think he's a terrific appointment," said Robert Gates, , who was CIA director during the Bush administration and has known Carns since Carns was at U.S. Pacific Command in Hawaii in the mid-1980s. Carns, a native of Junction City, Kan., flew 200 combat missions in the Vietnam War. He was vice chief of staff of the Air Force 
when he retired last year. 
Dad sentenced to paddling 
TROY, Ohio 
Turnabout was a fair way to avoid a felony charge for a man accused of paddling his 10-year-old son so hard it left bruises. The father agreed to get paddled by a police officer in exchange for authorities dropping a domestic violence charge. The officer used the father's 8-inch-long paddle bearing the words "Board of Education." As part of the agreement, the 33-year-old man's identity was concealed and the paddle was destroyed, the Dayton Daily News reported today. "This type of disposition is highly unusual, but we are not adverse to unique solu­tions to certain cases," said Common Pleas Judge William Kessler. "This was handled the way we handle an awful lot of these cases--very informally." The pros­ecutor suggested the punishment. Kessler did not object, but did not order the paddling be carried out. According to court documents, the man told police he probably spanked the boy for "having a bad attitude." · 


~~~~~  
S~~;e~ r:~t~~s  Rain  ~~~;;i~~  ~~~t  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet  @1995 Accu-Weather, Inc.  


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 9. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu·Weather, Inc. Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Associated Press 
Atlanta  41  31  Dallas  66  41  New Orleans 58  39  
Baltimore  23  10  Denver  59  31  New York  20  13  
Boston  11  Los Angeles 71  56  Philadelphia 20  13  
Chicago  19  9  Miami  65  53  Phoenix  76  49  
Columbus  17  -1  Minneapolis  16  11  St. Louis  25  24  

---~-­
-~---~-------~----~--------~~------~----­
Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
Evers' widow looking to reunify NAACP 
By WILLIAM McCALL 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 

Saying she wants to save the nation's oldest civil rights group from infighting and financial problems, the wife of slain civil rights leader Medgar Evers is running for chair­woman of the NAACP. 
"There is no way I can disas­sociate myself with this organi­zation, and no way I can stand by and watch it go under," Myrlie Evers-Williams, a long­time NAACP board member and retired corporate execu­tive, said Tuesday from her home in the central Oregon city of Bend. 
The current chairman, Dr. William F. Gibson, has held the post since 1985. His leadership has been questioned since for­mer Executive Director Ben­jamin Chavis was fired Aug. 20 for settling an employee's sex discrimination claim for up to $332,400 without telling the board. 
The Department of Music 
presents 

;<J!,;~tfrerfw{t ~ 'lk;;,~wnSJ"'''ho"'f Oniiestm ;>-"-~~ 
'Ifie :J{ptre 'lJame Sting 'Trio ~ 
2:00p.m. Sunday, February 12 Annenberg Auditorium 
$5 General Admission $2 Students & Senior Citizens For more information, please call631-6201. 

fPERFECfFOR-VALENTTN~S1fA-~1 
1 ONE HALF PRICE ENTREE PER COUPON I 
1Have dinner at the Emporium. Order one entree at the regular  1  
IPrice and get another entree of equal or lesser value for Half  1  
tprice! Choose from our Prime Rib, Steaks, Seafood, and  1  
1Chicken selections. All entrees include salad, choice of  1  
1vegetable or potato and freshly baked bread & butter.  1  
I  Buy 1 Dinner, Get the 2nd Dinner for 112 price!  I  
I  I  

I Expires February 16, 1995 I
L_____~=: __ ~~~~~~~~~ ~e~~2:_4~~~ 
In November, the NAACP fur­loughed most or its 124-mem­ber staff to try to reduce a $4 million deficit. Most staffers returned to work at the begin­ning of the year. 
In January, seven board members filed a federal lawsuit accusing Gibson of improperly s~nding $1.4 million in pen­sion and tax-exempt grant funds. 
"The organization's highly publicized infighting has de­tracted from its primary objec­tive of advocating the civil rights of the disenfranchised," Evers-Williams said in a state­ment earlier Tuesday. "We must get the NAACP back on course." 
Evers-Williams, 61, joined the NAACP when she was 18. Her former husband was a field secretary for the Mississippi NAACP when he was killed by a sniper in the driveway of his Jackson, Miss., home in 1963. 
White supremacist Byron De La Beckwith was charged with murder, but all-white juries deadlocked twice in 1964 and mistrials were declared. An in­terracial jury convicted him in February 1993 and he was sen­tenced to life in prison. 
Evers-Williams said that as chairwoman, she would work to reunify the board, rebuild its credibility and financial ac­countability, and revive mem­bership. 
"The respect and integrity of the NAACP, which was earned through the sacrifice of many over the past 86 years, has di­minished," she said. 
"We may be a dinosaur, as some people say, but we're not 


LAFAYETTE SQUARE
T 0 W N H 0 M E S 
''THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING'' 
·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT ·CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 
NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 



232-8256 
going to be extinct. As long as there is racism and unfair treatment, not just for African­Americans, but for all people, there is going to be this organi­zation," she said. 
An NAACP official referred all questions to Gibson, whose sec­retary said he was too busy to comment. 
The NAACP will elect a chair­man or chairwoman Feb. 18 in New York at the annual meet­ing of its 64-member board of directors. Gibson and Evers­Williams are the most promi­nent candidates. 
Evers-Williams said many civil rights leaders, friends and board members asked her to run. 
"She brings respect, knowl­edge and commitment that no­body could question," said board member Joseph Madi­son, a Washington radio talk show host. "There is no one on the national board that has sac­rificed more than she has." 
Evers-Williams is former commissioner of the Los Ange­les Board of Public Works, where she managed a $1 bil­lion budget and supervised 7,000 employees. 
She also has been an execu­tive at the Los Angeles-based oil company Atlantic Richfield and the New York-based advertising firm Seligman & Lapz, and an administrator in the Claremont Colleges system in California. 
page 3 
• .~r~~ec .~ :J!~ 

S to The Obaerver 
>tTh(:) University of Notre ~e bas 'received a gift from 
JUD G. and Connie Grief of PQtomac, Md., to establish a scholarship in their names. 
William G. Grief, a native of Evansville, Ind., graduated from Memorial High School there in 1943 and from Notre Dame Law School in 1952. Following a 26-year long career with Mead Johnson and Bristol-Meyers Company, he retired as its vice president of government affairs in 1990. Since then, he has been a con­sultant for the company and an attorney with the law firm of Akim, Gump Strauss. Hauer & Feld. Connie Grief is a 1944 graduate of Memorial and a 1948 graduate of Saint Mary­of-the-Woods College in Terre Haute, Ind. Mrs. Grief is active in the School Counselor pro­gram of the Christ Child Society in Washington. The 
s have nine children, two wh()m, D()uglas and a, are Notre Dame grad­
uates. First consideration of the Connie and Bill Grief Scholar· hip is being given to students rom the Evansville, Ind., or 
ashington, D.C. areas. The first recipient of the Grief scholarship is Aaron J. Couture, a Notre Dame fresh­man and an alumnus of Mater Dei High School in Evansville. 
outure, who lives in Stanford Hall, intends to major in mathematics. 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers, and editors. Join the Observer staff. 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 9, 1995 
Results 
continued from page 1 
who supported us, especially Flanner. We worked really hard in Flanner this year, and we feel great about the sup­port and confidence the guys showed tonight. We hope to the same kind of job for the whole school next year.," said Patrick. 
Matt Golish, while admitting his disappointment, threw his ticket's support to Patrick/McCarthy. "It was a disheartening loss, I really felt the student body deserved more," he said. "We're sup­porting JP and Dennis. They are cool guys and while their ideas may not be great, they know how to have fun." 
Alex Montoya said he was supporting Klau!Herczeg. "I consider them a better repre­sentative because they entered the race legitimately," said Montoya, referring to Patrick/McCarthy's late entry on the ballot. 
Vice presidential candidate George Fischer said he would 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
passed 14 to 1 with 1 absten­tion, was submitted by Bland­ford and a number of members of Student Government. Off­Campus Co-President Nikole Neidlinger, Student Body Pres­ident David Hungeling, Student Body Vice President Matt Or­sagh, Student Union Board Manager Bridget Conley, Hall Presidents' Council Co-Chair Rich Palermo, and Dean Ava Collins, professor of the College of Arts and Letters all "respectfully submitted" the resolution. 
In response to the passing of the resolution, Hungeling said he was "very pleased with the outcome." 
"The Student Senate has overwhelmingly supported the group," he said. 
Hungeling noted that the resolution would be sent to Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara, and he said that the Senate was hop­ing for a response from the administration. 
If you see news happening, call the Observer 
631-5323. 





TRIP!
INTRODUCIN8: 

The~ Student Fares 

support Patrick/McCarthy. " They have the best opportunity to bring innovative ideas to campus next year," he said. 
"This is no great rift, just a simple difference of opinion between me and George," said Montoya. 
Jennifer Allen said her ticket would like to throw their sup­port to Patrick and McCarthy. "They're doing it for all the right reasons," she said. 
Michelle Mudry said her ticket found the experience valuable. "we're not dis­traught and we learned a lot from running," said Mudry. "We're glad we ran." 
Kielbasa and Leahy could not be reached for comment. 
Under the rules of the runoff, the remaining tickets could be­gin campaigning at 12:01 am today, and continue untill1:59 tonight. Students can vote in their dorms Friday from 11 am to 1 pm, and between 5 pm and 7 pm. Off-campus students can vote at the LaFortune information desk during those same times. 
DoriDs 
continued from page 1 
need for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to have better relations. In an effort to accomplish this, Saint Mary's will hold a similar forum. The Gender Relations Committee discussed the bene­fits of the involvement of Notre Dame students. 
"I think that the girl to girl relationships are worse be­tween Notre Dame and Saint Mary's than the guy to girl relationships, so I encourage everyone to become friends with the girls across the street" said Freshman Class President Katie Beirne. 
Ready to make changes, the people interested in planning the forum for next year met immediately after the meeting to get started. 
"I definitely agree that we should wait to do this and that way we can do the best job possible" said Brendan Kelly, freshman class council. 
Crew ready for space walk 

By MIKE DRAGO 
Associated Press 

SPACE CENTER, Houston 
Discovery's crew kept tabs on a slew of science experiments today and checked out the bulky suits two astronauts will wear during Thursday's five­hour spacewalk. 
It was a day of relative relax­ation for the six-person crew, coming after a historic ren­dezvous with Russia's Mir space station and a telescope release. 
Mission Control let the crew sleep in as a reward for all its hard work. 
"Thanks for the extra hour," shuttle commander James Wetherbee told ground con­trollers. "We used it." 
Today's lull gave astronauts a chance to check on 20 science experiments in a shuttle laboratory, and Bernard Harris Jr. and Michael Foale double­checked their spacesuits. 
Harris, a physician, will be­come the first black to take part in a spacewalk. He said during a TV interview this morning that he'd like to dedi­cate the spacewalk to "all African-Americans, to African­American achievements." 
He noted that his opportunity to walk in space comes during Black History Month, adding, "Really, I get emotional when I think about it." 

Testify 
continued from page 1 

Later FBI agents visited Wilson on campus to formally deliver the subpoena. 
According to Wilson's account of that afternoon, she was the last person to speak to Duran before he open fire. 
Since Duran is pleading in­sanity, Wilson will serve as a character witness of the prose­cution to prove his sanity. 
"He (Duran) didn't express any insanity," said Wilson. "He seemed nice and friendly like a regular tourist. He didn't ap­pear to be out of the ordinary." 
Wilson is among 70 other wit­nesses called by the assistant 
U.S. attorneys in regards to this trial. 
At this point, many of the de­tails of the actual trip are unde­termined, according to Wilson. 
"I don't know what's going to go on but I will know more in February," she said. "I also 
Before the spacewalk, the crew is to retrieve the ultravio­let telescope that was released Tuesday. The telescope is spy­ing on interstellar gas and dust 
don't know what will be asked or how long I will be on the stand." 
Wilson also mentioned that Duran will probably been in the room as she is called on the stand. 
"I don't know what it will be like to talk about him with him that eventually will form new stars and planetary systems. Discovery is flying about 35 miles behind the telescope dur­ing its two days of free flight. 
Wilson says that the experi­ence is exciting because she has never been in a court room before, although she is disap­pointed to have to give up her spring break. 
"Maybe I will do some site seeing again," she joked. 


Come & See the New CJ's ! 
SENoR ND PREMED STuDENTS 
• 
ACCEPTED TO MEDICAL SCHOOL AND ABLE TO DEFER ADMISSION? 

• 
INTERESTED IN EXPLORING PRIMARY CARE MEDICINE AND HEALTH MINISTRY? 

• 
DESIRE TO SERVE A MEDICALLY INDIGENT COMMUNITY IN A CHRISTIAN SETTING? 


co:::~;er: THE THOMAS DOOLEY SERVICE AWARD PROJECT 
.91. year-{ong service project at St. Josepli 's :J{ea{tfi Center in Soutli tBend 
sponsored by tfie g{!}J Jl.{umni ofSt. Josepli o/a{{ey. 
• Considerable stipend to cover Room, Board, and Health Insurance. 
Applications now available at The Center for Social Concerns! 
• !Jarfur/her information, please foo/ifor an Observer arlicle in /he ne:xlfow days. 
Volker Blankenstein, Mary Ann Roemer,
or 
1994/95 Dooley Volunteer@ 289-7662 Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 

Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Weight guidelines too lenient AIDS epide01ic hits 

C~OP9T~CkS 
Chi~ese Fast Food 
Bo...-ed with the dining hall food? Ti...-ed of o...-de...-ing pizza? T...-y something diffe...-ent­t-lave C~OP6T~Ct<S delive...-ed to yo~AI"' do...-m 

Mon-Tht-~I"S 11a.m.-9p.m. F ..i & Sat 11a.m. -10p.m. 
r--------~;~;sT~-C_k_s___________c~~;s~-~c;;-------1 
SHRIMP FRIED RICE CHICKEN COMBINATION l
(Sened wit~ Egg Roi/Fried Rkel I 
•QOIII 0 Broa:oi
Qltllleai:CislnOOiin~ 1

$2 79 I
$2 29

• ?:~~~ • II 
Reg. $2.79 SuODI•KII1Gf'loOOIIn Reg. $3.29 I UniZ • Will Coupon Only • ~ Nol Be Unl2 •Wtlh Coupon Only • ~ Nol Be I : Combined Will1 Any Oilier Olllr·~ 12-15-95 Comb4nld Wtlh Any Olher oner • expires 12-15-95 1
l_______________________________________________________________________________________________ j 

Love Bites 
Join us for alook at love: true, unrequited and iust down right sick. There will be free popcorn, soda and Valentine·s Day cookies. All of this is brought to you by the Office of 
Student Activities. Everything is FREE 

8:00 
10:00 12:00 
2:00 
When a Man Loves a Woman 
Jagged Edge 
Four Weddings 
and a Funeral 
Fatal Attraction 

fat content and calorie content of the diet and eating more 
wo01en hardest 
fruits, vegetables and grains. Increases in body fat are By CAROLYN HENSON linked with increases in the risk 
Associated Press 
of high blood pressure, abnor­mal blood cholesterol levels, GENEVA heart attacks, strokes and some The pattern of the AIDS epi­cancers, including colon, demic has changed, with breast, ovarian, uterine, and in women -particularly young 
men, prostate. girls and adolescents -becom­"We found that about 40 per­ing the fastest-growing group cent of all heart attacks that oc­
of new HIV infections, the World Health Organization said cur in middle-aged women are Wednesday.
due to overweight," Manson Ten years ago, few women
said. Similar results are found in men, she said_ were infected with the HIV virus that causes AIDS, but now
The study, published in to­

day's issue of The Journal of they represent 50 percent of all new HIV infections, a WHO
the American Medical Associa­tion, found that a 5-foot-6-inch 
conference on women and AIDS woman had the lowest risk if said. It did not produce the she weighed less than 130 1985 statistics. 
pounds. "Every minute of the day, ev­ery day of the year. two women become infected by HIV and
At the same height, a weight of 130 to 142 pounds carried every two minutes a 
woman dies of AIDS,'' said Dr. Nafsiahabout a 20 percent higher risk. 
Mboi, an Indonesian member of At 142 to 155 pounds, it was parliament and chairwoman ofabout 50 percent higher; at 155 the U.N. agency's conference. 
to 180 pounds, it was about 
double; and at more than 180 Globally, 8 million women are infected by HIV, and 5 million
pounds, it was about 3 1/2 
more are expected to developtimes higher than for the 130­infections by the year 2000,pound woman. 
WHO said. Conservative esti­In 1990, the federal govern­
mates hold that 16 million
ment revised its guidelines up­adults and 1 million childrenward for desirable weights, say­

ing Americans over age 35 are infected by the virus, and 
4.5 million have developed
could be significantly heavier 
AIDS.
than under 1985 guidelines. 

Mboi blamed the inferior
The 1990 guidelines say a 5­position of women in sexual

foot-6-inch woman should 

and economic matters for ris­weigh between 130 pounds and ing infections among women. In167 pounds. Under the 1985 some societies, women are not
standards, the same woman 

was to permitted to talk about sex
weigh between 118 

with men or to negotiate saferpounds and 148 pounds. 
sex, she noted. 

Doctors to withdraw from camps 
Associated Press 

BRUSSELS 
Doctors Without Borders an­nounced Tuesday it was with­drawing from a refugee camp for 200,000 Rwandans because of fraud and threats against its staff. 
The international medical aid agency was pulling out from the Kibumba camp, near Goma in eastern Zaire, because Rwan­dan leaders there tried to trick the census-takers into exag­gerating the number of refugees to obtain more aid. 
"This fraud would have al­lowed ... the filching of humani­tarian aid to· the benefit of cer­tain militia chiefs and political leaders,'' the agency said in a statement. 
It said efforts to control the count led to its workers being threatened. 
More than 1 million people fled Rwanda's civil war last summer for Zaire. Among them were Hutu soldiers and militia members accused of mas-
The three-day conference brought together more than 50 policy makers and AIDS and women's activists to develop a plan to protect women against the virus. 
The meeting, the Interna­tional Consultation for Policy­makers on Women and AIDS, wrapped up Wednesday. It was sponsored by the U.N. health agency in preparation for the Fourth World Conference on Women to take place in Beijing in September. 
Among both men and women, young people are particularly at risk, WHO said. 
The agency estimates 60 per­cent of all new HIV infections in many countries are among 15­to 24-year-olds, with a female­to-male ratio of two to one. 
Older women are increasingly at risk, too. 
In Africa, the continent worst affected by the epidemic, six women are affected with HIV to every four men, according to conference data. Prostitutes have been hardest hit, with 40 percent to 80 percent of prosti­tutes in some urban areas in Africa and Asia infected. 
The meeting set out several key objectives for policy-mak­ers, including: national legisla­tion to improve women's status and ensure access to education, legal protection and better eco­nomic prospects; research of new safe sex methods to pro­tect women from HIV; and wider coordination of AIDS policies throughout the world. 
sacring about 500,000 people in Rwanda last spring. Most vic­tims were from the minority Tutsi tribe. 
Aid agencies have complained their work in the camps is fre­quently disrupted by Hutu sol­diers and militia men who steal aid and forcibly prevent other refugees returning home. 
The U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees asked Doctors Without Borders to register refugees in Kibumba as part of a plan to ensure aid could be directed to civilians and away from the military. 
Doctors Without Borders said it was continuing its work in other camps for Rwandan refugees around Goma. 


"Wonderful." New York Times "Two thumbs up. " Siskel & Ebert "A Scintillating summer surprise_" People Magazine "/was enchanted and exhilarated_" Village Voice 
Tonite@ 7 pm
Cushing Auditorium $1 admission 
BRING THIS AD AND GET INTO THE SHOW FREE 
By BRENDA COLEMAN 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Lenient federal weight guide­lines are encouraging men and women to be too overweight for their own good, researchers say. 
A study of more than 115,000 nurses found that middle-aged women should be far leaner than the standard recommen­dations in order to have healthy hearts, with even a 10-pound change making a significant dif­ference in risk. 
"There's a complacency about overweight among both health professionals and the general public,'' said Dr. JoAnn 
E. Manson, co-director of wom­en's health at Harvard-affiliat­ed Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. 
"There's a misconception that weight is a cosmetic issue rather than a health issue," she said. "The truth is that over­weight is very much a health issue." 
Women of average weight had about a 50 percent higher risk of having a heart attack than women who weighed 15 percent less than the U.S. aver­age, the study found. 
And women who gained just 15 to 25 pounds in early to mid­dle adulthood had a 65 percent greater risk than women who gained fewer than 10 pounds, Manson said. 
"I don't want to be scaring people with these findings, but we have been overly compla­cent about obesity and weight gain in adults," she said. 
She recommended increasing physical activity, lowering the 


page 6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 9, 1995 
Walesa endorses communist for prime minister 
By MONIKA SCISLOWSKA 
Associated Press 
WARSAW 
President Lech Walesa, who forced the resignation of leftist Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak, endorsed a moderate former communist today as new government chief. 
Walesa "does not oppose" the candidacy of Jozef Oleksy, the speaker of parliament. The president's spokesman said Walesa telephoned the promi­nent leftist politician to discuss the possibility of his forming a new Cabinet. 
Oleksy, 48, is a leading mem­ber of the Democratic Left Al­liance, the reconstituted Com­munist party that formed the current Cabinet with Pawlak's Peasants' Party after 1993 elec­tions. 

Pawlak, 35, offered his resig­nation Tuesday night under pressure from Walesa, who had threatened to dissolve parlia­ment. 
Walesa has been locked in battle with Pawlak for most of the young farmer's 15-month tenure as prime minister, ac­cusing him of undermining the economic reforms that gave Poland Europe's fastest-grow­ing economy last year. 
It was not clear immediately clear whether Oleksy would be any more amenable to Walesa's demands than Pawlak, al­though he is a politician of con­siderably more experience and regard. 
The ideological gulf between the president and leftist parlia­mentary majority will not be bridged simply by having the former communists take over the prime minister's post. 
Opposition parties don't think the reshuffle will bring any marked changes. 
"This is purely a cosmetic change, within the same com­pany," Andrzej Potocki, spokesman for the center-right Freedom Union party, the largest opposition party, told the Associated Press today. 
But Oleksy's greater political maturity and skills could help break the political deadlock. 
Critics say Pawlak discour­aged private and foreign in-

The 0 bserver 
is looking for 

Assistant News Editors and Copy Editors 
Applicants should submit a personal statement and resume to Dave Tyler by Monday, February 13 at 5 p.m. Ifyou have questions about either position call Dave at 1-5323 or 4-1200 
ve!!tment in Poland -badly. needed to speed up the trans­formation to a market econ­omy. 
Inflation now stands at 32 percent and there are about 2.9 million jobless people in the na­tion of 39 million people. 
Pawlak's government re­placed a moderate Solidarity­led coalition forced out by vot­ers upset by the high costs of reform. It has delayed the pri­vatizations of state industries and other moves, saying it might aggravate unemployment and create more social disloca­tion. 
Pawlak's government has been tainted by charges of cor­ruption, and widely criticized for trying to impose controls on the news media and for oppos­ing moves toward decentraliz­ing authority. 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
Ir----------------------------------------,I 
I I  HOW TO SAVE A FEW BUCKS.  I I  
(YOU CAN'T LIVE OFF PSYCH EXPERIMENTS ALONE.)  
fl Buy pizza at closing time. Haggle for slices they'd otherwise just throw away.  
fl Eat Ramen noodles.  
fl Make friends with a Senior. Come June, they'll be more than glad to give you their old Poly Sci books and couches.  
fl Donate blood. Save a life and get a free lunch to boot.  
fl Pick up a Citibank Classic card. There's no annual fee.  


<( 
z 
j 
0"' 



Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Snipers praised as patriots Chechnya's nervous neighbors 
Spring Break Setninars March 12-18,1995 Experiential/ Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALAQHIASEN.ITNAR Service Learning at one of ten sites in the Appalachian region One credit Theology ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES SEMINAR Examine recycling, solid waste centers directly Consider ethical aspects of environmental concerns One credit, Chicago-based seminar  
Applications Available Now at the CSC Application Deadline Extended for the Appalachia and Environmental Issues Seminars until Thursday,February 9, 1995, 10:00 p.m.  

By DAVE CARPENTER Associated Press 
NAZRAN, Russia 

In another time, the slender, 27-year-old Chechen might have been a poet or a teacher. 
But now he is what Hussian soldiers dread most in the haunted streets of Grozny: a fearless sniper stalking Moscow's troops day and night. 
Russia calls the thousands of snipers and fighters like Mack­sharip Chadayev "illegal armed gangs." The Chechens see them differently: as patriots de­fending their ancestral home­land against a foreign aggres­sor. 
"When foreign troops invade your country, if you are really a man, a citizen of this country, then you must fight. This is clear," Chadayev said in a re­cent interview. 
On a brief respite after slip­ping out of Chechnya to neigh­boring lngushetia, this transla­tor-turned-militant seems like an unlikely killer. 
Francesco's Welcomes All Valentines on Valentine's 


i~9~~~i Day.
~ 256-1444 
SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE 
Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prer.ared by Francesco and FamilyAn Authentic Taste of Italy Most Bomantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
WELCOME JUNIOR PARENTS! • WE NEED SERVERS! 
Hours 1213 LincolnWay West 
Mon-Thu 4-10 Mishawaka 
Fri & Sat 4-11 
closed (Francesco was chefat ND for 30 years!) 
• 
He is articulate and introspec­tive, quoting Russian proverbs and discussing world events in a slightly raspy voice. 
He claims no anger toward the Russian soldiers he hunts, but "I have to fight them be­cause they are killing people, my relatives and friends." 
Back in Chechnya, he is a fiercely dedicated fighter who sleeps in basements in the war­torn capital of Grozny and tar­gets Russian soldiers with his submachine gun through shat­tered windows, behind build­ings, down alleys. 
Moving ghost-like through the streets in winter camouflage, he is laden with cartridges con­taining 500 bullets, three grenades and two knives. 
Chadayev learned fluent En­glish in college, where he got a history teaching degree in Au­gust. Instead of teaching, he spent the first weeks of the war as a translator for journalists. 
His startling transformation took place Dec. 31, the night 
Russian tanks rolled into Grozny and Chadayev thought to himself, "this is the end." 
Walking toward the presiden­tial palace to look for his fighter friends, he came across a light tank that had just been de­stroyed. Four Russian bodies lay outside. 
Opening the hatch, he re­moved a submachine gun and continued on to the palace ­without a thought to passive resistance, or to fear. 
''I'm not scared," he said, shrugging. "Better to be killed than to be a slave." 
He says he doesn't know if any of the Russians he has shot at, many from long range, have died. But he has no second thoughts about his actions. 
"No one wanted this war," he said. "I think about it every day, every hour, and I am sure of it -we had to fight. It is a war against the Chechen peo­ple, not just against (President Dzhokhar) Dudayev. 
"There are some people in Chechnya who don't support our independence, but almost everybody, even women and children, are willing to fight. We don't have any choice." 
Someday, when the Russian forces have been pushed out ­and he is sure they will be -Chadayev may again have the 

Bomb defused near Irish border 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 
The British Army defused a bomb in a town near the Irish border today, the second since an IRA cease-fire began more than five months ago. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre with The Acting Company present: 
Drama Division 
Thurs., Feb. 16, 8 pm Fri., Feb. 17, 8 pm Sat., Feb. 18, 8 pm 
Reserved Seats $14 Studmts and Smior Citiuns $10 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance ac che LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 
@§JACTING

COMPANY 
,Itt,~_... t'.... ~ 
lELDA riCHANUl..ER MARC.oT HARL£Y 
An••llt Dln•rtor El<Kulln'Prod~Kt"f 

lngushetia and Dagestan, already home to thousands of Chechen refugees, worry that Chechnya's war with Russia will spill across their borders. 
The bomb contained a pound of Semtex, a plastic explosive linked exclusively to the Irish Republican Army in Northern Ireland. The IRA began a cease-fire Sept. 1 of its violent campaign to end British rule here. 
No organization has acknowl­edged planting the bomb. Peter Robinson, a parliament mem­ber from the East Belfast Democratic Unionist party, blamed IRA supporters. But a leader of Sinn Fein, the political party allied with the IRA, de­nied the guerrilla group was to blame. 
"Whoever planted last night's device is not involved in the peace process and does not want it to succeed," said a statement from Mitchel McLaughlin, the party's North­ern Ireland chairman. 
The bomb was left outside a store in Newry, 35 miles south­west of Belfast. Army ex­plosives expert defused it after an anonymous telephone call. 

In mid-December, a Semtex bomb was found outside a garage in Enniskillen, 70 miles west of Belfast. The IRA denied any involvement in that inci­dent, but security sources be­lieve the explosives came from one of their stockpiles. 
The IRA has acknowledged one breach of the cease-fire: the killing of a postal worker in a robbery Nov. 10 in Newry. 
Also today, a British soldier was sentenced to 10 years for the attempted murder of a sus­pected IRA leader. Trooper An­drew Brian Clarke, 22, shot Eddie Copeland repeatedly three days after an IRA bomb killed 10 people in a fish shop on Oct. 23, 1993. 
Clarke told police he felt frus­chance to be a history teacher. But he can't afford to think about the future now. 

"I don't know how I can sur­vive after what I've seen. Grozny is now completely ru­ined and many of my friends 
25 miles 
E3 
25km 

APN/m. J. Castello and relatives are dead," he said sadly. "If this country happens to fall under Russian occupation, I will leave. But I'd rather die than have my country lose." 


~-----------------------. 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, February 9, 1995 


Confusion reigns as war rages on in Sierra Leone 
By TINA SUSMAN Associated Press 
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast 
One of Africa's strangest wars is casting a shadow from the Vatican to the Scottish Isles. 
The place: Sierra Leone, a former slice of paradise rich in diamonds, minerals and white­sand beaches. 
The combatants: a govern­ment of young soldiers led by a former disco champ named Valentine, and an elusive rebel group. 
The latest victims: foreigners, including a Dutch doctor, a Scottish road-builder, Italian nuns and Vietnamese restau­rant workers from England. 
All have been killed, kid­napped or jailed as the Revolu­tionary United Front and Capt. Valentine Strasser's govern­ment wind up for what appears to be the final pitch in this un­wieldy, 5-year-old war. 
Authorities estimate that 5,000 people have been killed, mostly civilians. 
Unlike the ethnic conflicts of Liberia and Rwanda, or the clan-based fighting in Somalia, the reasons behind Sierra Leone's war remain fuzzy. Fo­day Sankoh's RUF began fight­ing a corrupt government in 1991 and kept on fighting even after that government was top­pled by a band of junior mili­tary officers. 
The officers turned to the 

Celebrate a friend's bi.rthday with a special Observer ad. 







IZZARD OF BDcl(
6L The Craziest Game Show on College Campuses! 

~@ ~~~~!!! 


~~e·s y
Get some extra cash for our Chance 
Bre>c:::~ ~-< •

Spring 
WHEN: Thursday, February 9 TIME: 8:00p.m. WHERE: Carroll Auditorium-SMC COST: JUST $2.00! 



charismatic Strasser, best­known for winning disco danc­ing contests, to be the junta's leader. The RUF says despite its promises to bring democracy to Sierra Leone, Strasser's gov­ernment is no better than its predecessor. 
Rebel attacks have forced hundreds of foreigners working in the mines to leave. 
Two engineers, from England and from the Isle of Lewis off Scotland's west coast, were ab­ducted in November and haven't been seen since. In the past month, 15 more foreign­ers, including seven nuns and several European mine work­ers, have been seized. None is believed to have been killed. 
The abductions -and the death of a Dutch doctor in a rebel attack last March -are an embarrassment to Strasser's government, which has estimat­ed rebel numbers at only about 800 compared to some 10,000 loyal soldiers. 
Foreign investment and aid is crucial to Sierra Leone's eco­nomic revival, and the kidnap­pings have driven away foreign­run businesses and prompted international outrage. 
"We cannot remain silent when the traditional, civil and religious life is complet~ly being disrupted," the Vatican said in an angry statement after the nuns' abduction Jan. 26. The United Nations, which earlier had focused on elections planned late this year, now is rebels, the story warned, might trying to help arrange talks be­have killed the crocodile to use tween the RUF and govern­its organs for casting evil spells. ment. In an attempt to weed out 
Despite their small numbers, possible rebel infiltrators, the the rebels have shown they are military command last week organized enough to repeatedly ordered all soldiers in the capi­hit foreign-run enterprises and tal to appear at the local hockey flee with hostages who will field for inspection. More than boost their bargaining power. 150 with questionable identity 
Meanwhile, the government papers were hauled away for in the capital, Freetown, is be­closer investigation. coming paranoid to the point of "There are a number of sol­hilarity. diers around town who should­
One night in September, sol­n't be here," said a military diers blasted away at the beach spokesman, Maj. Dominic after some fishermen trying to Sowa, conceding the govern­improve their catch set off dy­ment was not keeping a close namite in the sea. eye on its ranks. 
Last week, a Freetown news­"The rebel attacks recently paper ran a front-page story · were done with some military about a crocodile that escaped precision and not irrationally," from a school biology class. The Sowa added, alluding to allega-
Remember to vote in Friday's run-off election between Klau-Herczeg 
& 
Patrick-McCarthy 
Voting will take place in dorms from 11-1 & 5-7 
tions that many of the so-called rebel attacks are actually car­ried out by government troops moonlighting as guerrillas to share the booty from looted vil­lages and businesses. 
At least a dozen soldiers con­victed of collusion with the rebels have been executed by hanging or firing squad since December, a sign that Strasser is becoming more determined to prove he's in control. 
He's already survived two coup attempts; three if you in­clude the one allegedly hatched by four Vietnamese restaurant workers who were on vacation when they were arrested in 1993. They spent more than a year in jail before the govern­ment abruptly dropped the charges. 





to pl~~ 


Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Congressional cutbacks kill art program Man makes 
By SANDRA SOBIERAJ 
Associat~d Press 
WASHINGTON 

Stephen Dube's colored-pen­cil rendition of a dress dangling from a clothesline was drawn on a flattened brown grocery bag. It hangs with hundreds of other works by young artists along a well-traveled tunnel on Capitolllill. 
It is a rotating exhibit, filled each year with the winriers of Artistic Discovery, a nationwide high school art competition sponsored by the Congressional Arts Caucus since 1981. 
Hut the caucus is no more, and the fate of the contest is in doubt -even though hundreds of students already have pre­pared entries for this year's competition. 
By eliminating the arts cau­cus and 27 other so-called legislative service organiza­tions, which usefl federal funds to hire staff and made free use of House office space and equipment, Republicans said they could save $5 million annually. 
But no one meant to pull the plug on the art competition, sponsors say, and they want assurances from House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., that the show will go on. 
"The unintended victims of this whole thing are the young artists of America," said Rep. Louise M. Slaughter, D-N.Y., who co-chaired the arts caucus. 
Dube, 17, was the Vermont winner of the 1994 competition. His untitled work is one piece of a colorful mosaic along the tun­nel that connects the Capitol to the Cannon House Office Building. 
The exhibit, featuring works like "Darkside" and "Don't Look Down," gives lawmakers and tourists· a glimpse into the hearts and minds of teen-agers from all over the country, Dube said. 
Slaughter and co-chairman James Jeffords, a Republican senator from Vermont, wrote to Gingrich in December, asking permission to use $28,000 in member dues already paid and 


T-wo essential ingredients for a perfect date: 
A date and this. 
$65,000 in leftover caucus funds to administer the compe­tition. When the speaker didn't respond, Jeffords asked a mem­ber of his staff on the Edu­cation, Arts and Humanities subcommittee to take over the contest. 
But Slaughter and Jeffords still need the speaker's ap­proval to use the tunnel and other House support staff for framing, hanging and guarding the artwork. 
So far, there's been no word from Gingrich. A spokeswoman referred inquiries this week to the House Oversight Committee, whose chairman is Rep. Bill Thomas, R-Mo. 
Thomas spokeswoman Stacy Carlson said Tuesday that he supports the competition and expects it will ultimately pro­ceed. But in a Jan. 20 letter, Thomas told Slaughter and Jef­fords, "The Committee on Oversight does not have juris­diction over issues of whether or not the 1995 competition is conducted." 
Previously, caucus staff coor­
It's everywhere you -want to be... 

dinated contests in more than 200 congressional districts and oversaw the exhibit opening in June. 
The opening ceremony, a bi­partisan and celebrity-studded carnival paid for by General Motors, gave the young student artists a chance to meet Holly­wood celebrities. With House and Senate leaders acting as hosts, last year's event starred Dean Cain of ABC's "Lois and Clark: The New Adventures of Superman." 
"The whole thing is pretty in­spiring, showing students there's achievement in the arts," said Dube, now a senior at Burlington High School in Burlington, Vt. 
Iai Ly, a senior at Edgewater High in Orlando, Fla., is also planning a career in the arts and has applied to the Parsons School of Design in New York City. But she was counting on a scholarship from this year's congressional competition to help pay for school and has al­ready finished work on her en­try, a still-life painting. 
millions from change 
By DAVID GERMAIN 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 

The one constant to personal finance, Bruce Stenzel figures, is that people hoard change ­in piggy banks, milk jars, coffee cans and buckets. 
Himself a change hoarder since he was a boy, Stenzel has parlayed his passion for pen­nies, nickels, dimes and quar­ters into a $157 million busi­ness. 
Continental Coin Processors Inc. converts coins into paper currency within minutes for vendors, pay-phone operators, video arcade owners and oth­ers who just have too much change on their hands. 
"People have fetishes. Some people collect cigarette lighters or matchboxes or salt-and-pep­per shakers," Stenzel said. "I saved change. And the thought I always had was, there's no way for me to get rid of it." 
Founded in 1991, Continental Coin operates out of a Buffalo warehouse that's a coin hoard­er's paradise, filled with old­time safes, penny gumball ma­chines, canvas sacks of change and dozens of piggy banks. 
This month, the company in­troduced self-service sorters ­dubbed automatic coin ma­chines, or ACMs -at banks, where people can deposit change directly into their ac­counts or get cash back for it. 
Automatic coin machines were installed at three Citibank branches in western New York this month; Continental Coin said it plans to have at least 100 more in other banks and in supermarkets by year's end. 
The company charges a 1.2 percent commission for pro­cessing coins at its warehouse in Buffalo, and 5 percent for its self-operated machines. The privately held company has de­clined to disclose its profits. 
The company has expanded to Rochester and Albany, N.Y., and licensed its name and equipment to a California group that opened a coin-processing center in Los Angeles last year. 
Large vendors often have their own coin-processing se­tups, but small ones could make good use of services like Continental Coin's, said Tim Sanford, executive editor of Vending Times, a trade journal that estimates Americans spent $28 billion in vending machines last year. 
"We used to carry sacks of quarters into the bank, and they were none too happy to see us," said Randy Bergman of Buffalo-based video-game operator Darrt Amusements, one of Continental Coin's oldest customers. 
J.C. Pearl Ltd. of Buffalo, which operates 300 pay phones around New York, used to count its change with a clunky, old coin sorter, then lug it to the bank. The money would be tied up for as long as five days while the bank processed it to verify the amount, said compa­ny owner Carmine Pearl. 
Now, Continental Coin han­dles the change and cuts a check that Pearl can deposit at the bank the same day. 
Continental Coin "took a no­brainer and turned it into one hell of a marketable item," Pearl said. "If you put an hourly rate on my time, it's really been worth it to have them sorting the coins instead of me."
!r.J Visa U.S.A. Inc. 1994 



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, February 9, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-747f SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Mark£ting Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Ediror, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present [he views of the amhors, and no[ necessarily [hose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 

Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• SOCIETY WHIRl 

Partying not what it once was 
I am going to a party Friday night, and although its location must remain secret (I don't want to be mobbed by fans), you can rest assured that you're not missing out. Not that it won't be a first-class party; the same guy threw one last year and it was very !)uccessful, in its hope­less way. A lot of people getting bombed, and taking feverish delight in their powers of speech. Perhaps an identical experience waits for me tonight. That's if all 

goes well; if 
a w a y it doesn't, party. some woman In fact, may give me it won't
Josh 

the high hat, be any or I may different throw up or from any

Ozersky

urinate in o t h e r the bushes party. I or some know it, 
othe.r such embarrassing stunt, or perhaps just make an idiot of myself by arguing vehemently against some writer or philosopher I have never read a word of. Or maybe nobody will be there. Or maybe a clique of buzzkill intel­lectuals will drag me into an argument about why I shouldn't say "chinaman," or why I should quit making fun of Women's History Month, or why 
I shouldn't confuse the Hutsis with the Tutsis, or the Serbs with the Croats, or Ricki Lake 
with Carnie Wilson. 
And yet, even this is unlikely. As Dr. Johnson said, "nothing is as hopeless as a scheme of mer­riment." By the time you're my age (27). you've been to so many parties that the degree of hopeful uncertainty each brings has been reduced to almost nil. Now that I'm a kind of minor 

celebrity, there is always the chance that somebody will either a) gladhand me or b) tell me what a loser I am. So that is a happy addition to the thing, but it's not enough. Parties represent to me a kind of ulti­mate exclusion of all pleasure and pain. I mean, fishhooks are not going to come out of the walls and rend me to pieces as I writhe and shriek; nor will any­body hand me a bag of money or an invitation to Heidi Fleiss' going­
and you know it too. I mean, it's a good thing I like not moving and hearing myself talk, and eating sour cream and onion potato chips that I haven't paid for. I wish there was a table with a little monkey on it, and tiny sil­ver hammers for all the guests. Or if not that, than some other novelty. I can't think of one off hand. At least I'll have an excuse to wear a tie. 
Observer rock critic Rob Adams recently had a fine party, and I put in an appear­ance. Oh look, grandpa's here! Did he bring some Werther's Originals? I was pie-eyed drunk, too, for the first time since the Republicans took over the country. Can I count this as a victory, though? Any bum in the street can claim as much. I did get to do my funky Jungle Boogie dance, but it wore me out and made me look like the gabbling, wheezing oldster I thought I only pretended to be. 
Since my Friday party is most­ly graduate students, I need not worry. But I'm not getting my hopes up, either. Talking to other men is a tepid pleasure at best, and talking to women at parties is too fraught with risk to be relaxing. God Forbid they get the idea you are trying to pick them up, which of course we all are, on some level, if they are attractive women. It's a good thing the party will be mostly grad students! 
When I was in high school, there was still some thrill in being able to drink and smoke as much as we wanted, in com­pany. Those days live on in my memory, the men lurking around the keg, the women talking in the kitchen, the drug­gies making constant trips out­side and returning with glazed, bloodshot, happy eyes. And then the swaggering rambles on the boardwalk or the beach. What the hell happened? 
Maybe I just expect too much from parties. At least I don't live in Buffalo. I don't try to drink whiskey or jagermeister, like I did in high school. Getting boozed up on weak beer and attacking social historians has a lot to be said for it, too. And yet, memories of those days in Longport or Atlantic City, with the electricity of hope in the air, and possibility at every turn, makes the beer go flat in my mouth. Hope! Who needs it? But the memory lingers, and the shame remains. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. His e-mail address is: joshua. a. ozer­sky.l@nd.edu 
• 

Military, ROTC not given just treatment 
Dear Editor: 
The letter submitted by David McMahon entitled, "ND's No 
Place for ROTC" has really forced me to ask this question, 
"How could someone who is obviously intelligent enough to 
be a Junior at the University of Notre Dame be so ignorant?" 
Has itever occurred to McMahon that not everybody who goes here can a.n'ord an education at Notre Dame? If Notre Dame were to eliminate ROTC, thousands of intelligent young men and women with their own unique talents to con· tribute would not have the opportunity to do so. 
Maybe I am just not liberal enough to understand the con­
nection McMahon makes between the SS, the stormtroopers 
in "Star Wars," 
and the U.S. Army. 
First of all, the SS 'JfNotre Dame were to 
fought for Fascism. . eliminate ROTC, thou­
Let me clue you in 
sands of intelligent young 
on a little secret that many people men and women with their are privy to -the 
own unique talents to con­
U.S. Army fought against the SS in tribute would not have the World War II. • d ' 
The "Invasion of opportumty to 0 so. Kuwait" line will serve as an excellent example of the ignorance displayed in this letter. Now it was Iraq which actually invaded Kuwait. Its objective was to take control of the emirate's oil and wealth, as well as add the nation to Iraq as a province. What the Iraqis did was the essence of the word invasion. On the other hand, the U.S. military, along with the Allied coalition, went to Saudi Arabia in order to defend that nation. Later, during Operation Desert Storm, the emirate was liberated. There is a considerable difference between invade and liberate. How can it be said that people like Lekey, Quast, and the 
U.S. military "stand in the way of humanitarianism?" The mission of Operation Restore Hope was to stabilize Somalia so that food and aid could get to those who were starving. The military was . also involved in providing aid to Rwanda and the reliefefl'orts for the Kurds. 
Finally, I want to say thank you to Lt. Lekey and all the others who put their lives on the line for this country with honor, dignity, morality, and pride. 
lAWRENCE BROTHERTON, III 
· Senior Morrissey HaU 

"ii.:: 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 


• Qm:rrE Of THE DAY 
''My advice to you is not 
to inquire why or whither, but just enjoy your ice cream while it's on your 
plate ­ that's my philoso­ 
phy."  
-Thorton Wilder  






ACC~NT 
Thursday, February 9, 1995 page 11 
• MUSIC CRITIC 

«»-....----~..~.-~~·~.. 
«»-....-~..~·~ 
«»-....-~...... ~,.,~=---·~~~ 
By ROB ADAMS Music Critic 

W
ebster's II New Riverside Dictionary defines "cult" as "Obsessive or faddish devotion to a principle or person." 
u 
When it comes to applying that definition to music in the most basic sense, I decided the cult albums of our generation would be albums that everybody knows about. These are not necessarily albums that all of us have; i.e. cult albums have not broken any sales records. However, all of us are in some way familiar with these albums. 
Hegardless of who someone's favorite musical 
L 
artists are, there will always be a place for cult albums. These albums are as popular and as lis­tened to today as they were in the first year of their release. lienee, cult albums are indestructible. Every time we listen to them we discover some­thing new and interesting and we can't help but look forward to listening to them again. 
1. Beastie Boys-Licensed to Ill:, 1986: 
T 
I can't really remember if I actually bought this album or if it was given to me as I began my sec­ond semester of seventh grade. Every pre-pubes­cent and many post-pubescent males walked around rhyming, lip-syncing, and posing with side­ways baseball caps and Fila T -shirts. But they weren't alone in adoring the Beastie Boys. Fe­males of all ages loved them and flocked to their 
shows. Licensed to Ill had every aspect of cult imaginable: the fads, obsessive fans, and contro­versies. 
'cult albums are indestructible. 
Every time we listen to them we 
discover something new and interesting 
and we can't help but look forward to lis­
tening to them again. 






___________________________R_o_b_A_d_a_m
__s 

The Beasties had problems on their hands rang­
M 
u 
ing from the audacity of their live performances to how many Led Zeppelin bits they used in their music. It affected me personally when my tape of Licensed to Ill was confiscated when the principal found me listening to it at school; usually he just told me to turn it off. 
In all actuality, the three B-Boys are now some­what embarrassed of that period in their lives, but 
there's no disregarding the music of that album. 
5 
Licensed to Ill was the groundbreaking moment in rap history. The Beasties made it cool to listen to rap music even if you weren't a rap fan. Their mixtum of hard-rocking riffs, deep, thumping bass. cool break beats, and undeniably clever rhymes were instrumental in rap's coming of age. 
Whether telling a story like "She's Crafty" or "Paul Hevere," sending a message that none of us 
could argue with such as the infamous "Fight For Your Hight," or just bragging and boasting as on "The New Style" and "Posse in Effect," the Beasties were unstoppable. 
I 
2. Bob Marley-Legend, 1984: 
This man introduced the world to reggae music. A touching poet, an amazing musician, and a man who many consider to be a prophet, Marley made 
c 
unbelievable music for over 15 years before suc­cumbing to cancer in 1981. This posthumous collection of his greatest hits does not contain his only good songs, but it portrays Marley's range, his moods, and his soul as accurately as any 14-song collection could. 
Traditional reggae ballads such as "Is This Love" and "No Woman No Cry" are classic staples 
and will be for as long as people are listening to music. However, Marley stretched the limits of reggae like no other artist ever did experimenting with a folk sound on "Redemption Song" and writ­ing balladry in a more rhythm and blues tempo on "Waiting in Vain." 
Ballads were not the only type of music he could write, however. The funky reggae put forth on "I Shot the Sherifr' as well as the groove-oriented "Could You Be Loved" may even be ahead of their time today. 
"Get Up Stand Up" is an example of Marley's social side, caring very much about the people he 
I 0,0 0 0 represented. For anyone wanting to begin listen­ing to reggae, this is where to begin. All reggae influence, from the early 70's on, came from Marley. 
3. The Pixies-Doolittle, 1988: 

The Pixies were the definitive punk rock band for the late 80's. Demented yet humorous, loud yet harmonious, jagged yet melodious, Doolittle awed and confused listeners in one full swoop. The Pixies showed that they could be as rugged as it comes with Black Francis' loco vocals on tracks like "Crackity Jones" and "Debaser." 
However, they would then provide picture-per­fect pop as on songs such as "Here Comes Your Man." Kim Deal's pace-setting matched the antics of the rest of the band perfectly. Although they did release two more fantastic albums before their demise in 1992, Doolittle is undoubtedly the Pixies at their peak. 
Coun.y ol Eleklra

4. Jesus and Mary Chain-Automatic, 1989: 
After three albums experimenting with fuzz box punk, acoustic folk, and Beach Boys-esque sock hop rock, the Jesus and Mary Chain took their music to another level in 1989. Automatic still deals with fits about lust, death, depression, and faith, but the sound is so tight and potent that every song is a masterpiece. 
Whether it's a fast-paced denomination of instinct as with "Head On," a self-indulgent lethar­gy such as "Halfway to Crazy," or an electro-feed­back instrumental like "Sunray," the intensity level is as high as it can be from beginning to end. 
5. Violent Femmes-Violent Femmes, 1983: 
These guys smelled like teen spirit when Nirvana was still in high school. Granted, this album is a cult album simply because every American between the age of 18 and .35 with the ability to hear knows "Blister in the Sun," but this is a quality album. The Femmes invented smart­ass teen angst as we know it today on such classics as "Add It Up" and "Gone Daddy Gone." Their quick-moving acoustic rhythms and deranged yet 

Courtasy ol A & M Records

still likable lyrics helped them eclipse three gener­ations of college students. 
6. Rage Against the Machine-Rage Against the Machine, 1992: 
Big and righteous, these four guys don't screw around. The only thing more frightening than a really loud album is an album with a genuinely angry lead singer. And this debut has both. Rage takes every song they write, throw in a couple pounds of dynamite, light it. and let everyone around bathe in the flames (See the album cover for further description). Bold anthems such as "Take the Power Back" and "Freedom" will never go the way of the dinosaur. 
· 7. De La Soul-Three Feet High and Rising, 1989: Where the Beastie Boys blew rap's posturing up to mammoth importance, De La Soul downplayed it 

' ..\~ 
on this quirky, eccentric, and somewhat psychedel­
ic debut. When most rappers were stuck rehash­
ing the James Brown collection, De La Soul was 

-

rapping about optimism, doing what you want to ra e t against 1• the do, and helping people out. 
Courtesy of EpiC 

8. 10,000 Maniacs-In My Tribe, 1987: 
This 10,000 Maniacs album is their best and most well-known mainly because it is Natalie Mer­chant's best. Her social anthems such as "What's the Matter Here" are just as relevant as something simple like "My Sister Rose," and her vocal prowess is played to perfection on "Verdi Cries." 
9. UB40-Labour of Love, 1983: 

This idea of covering a bunch of old soul classics in a reggae vibe sounds like a horribly bland idea, but UB40 works their magic on such tracks as "Red Red Wine" and "Please Don't Make Me Cry." 
10. Phish-A Picture of Nectar, 1992: 
This band has never been caught on disc the way they sound live, but this album at least comes closest to describing the range of their shows. 

Rob Adams is the Accent Music Critic. His columns appear every Thursday. 
Courtasy of Columbia 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 9, 1995 
-• COlLEGE 
Students interrupt game to protest racial remarks 
By TOM CANAVAN Associated Press 
PISCATAWAY, N.J. 
The embattled president of Rutgers University said Wednesday the school will not tolerate any more disruptions of sports events by students angered over his racially divi­sive remarks last year. 
During Rutgers' game against No. 4 Massachusetts Tuesday night, about 150 students staged a sit-in before the start of the second half, forcing the suspension of the game. 
"They've made their state­ments, and now no further dis­ruptions will be appropriate," Rutgers president Francis Lawrence said at a news con­ference Wednesday. 
Atlantic 10 Conference com­missioner Linda Bruno said Wednesday the game will be completed March 2 at the Palestra in Philadelphia. That's two days after the conference's regular season ends and two days before the league begins its postseason tournament at the Palestra. 

Neither Lawrence nor Rutgers athletic director Fred Gruninger said how the school planned to stop another demon­stration. 
"We assured the Atlantic 10 conference that we would be ready to play," Gruninger said. "We will adjust to what the sit­uation is and the game will go on." 
Rutgers' mens team has three home games left, the next on Feb. 16 against Temple. The Scarlet Knights women's team will play home Saturday. 
Lawrence has been sharply criticized by some students, fac­ulty and state legislators for a remark to faculty members last fall that "disadvantaged" stu­dents do not have "that genetic hereditary background to have a higher average" in standard­ized tests. 
He apologized last week after the comments were publicized, saying he never meant the remark and believes just the opposite. 
Rutgers men's coach Bob Wenzel said he was aware there might be a protest and spoke with his players about it before taking the court. 
He denied statements attrib­uted to Rutgers football players that the basketball players were told they would lose their scholarships if they boycotted the game to support the protest. 
Wenzel defended the right to protest but he said he was frus­trated by the suspension. Rutgers led 31-29 the half. 
"It's an unfortunate· situation that happened last night in terms of us not being able to finish the game," he said before practice Wednesday. 
"I would have preferred the protest happ.en and then the protesters would have left the floor and let us fmish the game. But that's not how it happened, so we're all disappointed about that." 
Bruno and officials from the two schools talked several times Wednesday and agreed to complete what is technically an interrupted game. 
"Both athletic directors and coaches made it clear they wanted this game resumed, and every effort was made to find a date that would accommodate both teams," Bruno said. 
Wenzel, a 1971 Rutgers grad­uate, said there were protests against the Vietnam War when he was in school and he dis­cussed that with the team. He said some minority players on the team expressed concern about Lawrence's comments. 
"But they have to remain members of the team and rep­resent the school and that's what they did,' Wenzel said. "I was very proud of them. They were caught in the middle and I was proud the way they re­acted." 
Wenzel said he and Massachusetts coach John Calipari spoke with each oth­er's team Tuesday night. Wenzel said he couldn't wait to finish the game. 
"Hopefully, we'll be able to play the game and finish the game and win the game and have a great time," he said. 
Calipari, in a statement, said he told the Scarlet Knights a forfeit was unacceptable. "That wouldn't be fair to the Rutgers players," he said. 
''I'm glad it wasn't forfeited," said Massachusetts co-caption Lou Roe in the same statement. "That way, we have an oppor­tunity to win the game and Rutgers has an opportunity to win the game." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Painters, Foremen, and Managers­ FREE$BEER$FREE$BEER$FREE  *****"'*******••SLF"'***"'•*** • ***•** * *  ATIN:  ACTORS/ACTRESSES  
L.....-_N_o_T_Ic_E_s_.....~l  L-1_~_l\_N_T_E_D_.....~  Call College Pro Painters at 1(BOO) 346-4649.  Now that I've got your attention: : I NEED ONE KENTUCKY GA CALL MATI atx2153.  'The Winter After Your Death' The Jong bands of mellow light  Student in directing class needs . you for periodic in-class and out-of­class projects this semester. If you  
Come to the Saint Mary's Observer  Spring Break! Bahamas Party  Need 3 Marquette GA's. Call Kevin  BEER$FREE$BEER$FREE$BEER  across the snow  have MWF from 1: 15-2:05 free (and  
Office to place your classified ads  Cruise 6 Days $2791 Includes 12  2BB-3408  narrow slowly.  some additional time) and are inter­ 
on Mondays 2;00-4;00, Tuesdays  Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  The sun closes her gold fan  ested, call Mike at 4-3597 and  
2:30-4:30, Wednesdays 11 :30-1 :00,  Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  two need ride-MEMPHIS, spr.  NEED 2 TOM PETTY TIX  and nothing is left but black and  leave your name and number. All  
Thursdays 2:30-4:30, and Fridays  Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  break,$, x1943  WILL PAY TOP$$  white- help will be appreciated. Thanks.  
2:00-4:00.  Air & Hotel From $429! Spring  BEN X2301  the quick steam of my breath, the  
Sketch Comedy -HA  Break Travell-800-678-6386  FOR RENT  Badly need Kentucky tickets  dead accurate shapes of the weeds, still,  DESPARATELY NEEDED:  
Want to LAUGH at your peers,  Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  272-8059.  as if  
profs and school? Go ahead.  PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW  pressed in an album.  Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for  
When you're done, come see  ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129!  Wanted:  NEED 1-2 PETTY TIX  Deep in my body my green heart  weekend. Please help.  
Humor Artists  WALK TO BEST BARS I Cocoa  5 students for completely remod·  CALL LISA 2364  turns, and thinks of you. Deep in  
Library Auditorium  Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  eled home. Close to N.D. large rec.  the  Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You!  
Fri. Feb 10th  8pm FREE!!!  Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  room, washer and dryer, security  pond, under the thick trap  
$159! Key West $2291 Daytona  system. Rent for summer school  WANTED : 6 Tickets to Tom Petty  door of ice, the water moves,  
TREK-A-THON  Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­ and/or fall semester. Call NOW  DESPERATEI!III Please Call  the carp hangs like a sun, its scarlet  
Cushing Auditorium  800-678-6386  277-0636  Mary Jane@ 271-0224  heart visible in its side.  Volunteer to be a dealer at Knott's  
Thurs-9/11  Fri + Sat-8/1030 pm  -Sharon Olds  Casino Night this Friday ... for an  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  HOMES FOR RENT  HELP!!!! I NEED UK TIX-STD OR  from The Dead and the Living  hour of your time you get in without  
Thurs-Star Trek 2-Wrath of Khan  Oceanview Room with a Kitchen  NEAR CAMPUS  GA. 233-5130-ASK FOR ANYONE  Reading Wed Feb 15, 8 PM  a ticket.  
Fri-Star Trek 4-Voyage Home  $129! Walk to best bars! Includes  232-2595  EXCEPT FOR GARY GROUPER.  Hesburgh Library Auditorium  Call Theresa at X4708  
Sat-Star Trek 6-Undiscovered  Free Discount Card which will save  part of the  
Country  you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800­678-6386  1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT  PERSONAL  SOPHOMOREIII!!!I!!!I!!!!!I!II!!I!!!!!!!II! 1!!11  
brought by SUB  FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ !!!!!!!!!IIII!!IIII!LITER­ "She is a flower with psychic  
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  6551  ROSES ARE RED  ARY!!!!!!!!!!I!!!II!!I!!!!I!!!!  antennae anci a tinsel heart."  
BRIDGET'S open 8-3  GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  VIOLETS ARE BLUE  !I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!III!I!IIIIIIIIFESTI­ Please, what is your name? JK  
Thurs $2 everything  WHILE BUILDING YOUR  ROOM FOR RENT. FEB.1-MAY31,  THE OBSERVER HAS A  VAL!!II!!!!!!  
Fri Karaoke -specials  RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  1995. MATURE STUDENT. QUIET  SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU  (festival dates FEB 11-17)  
Sat OED -specials  (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ NEIGHBORHOOD. 255-9005  ****************SLF*****************  21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21  
UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  
INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  approaching and now is the time to  Happy 21st, MARY WENDELL!  
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out  VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­ LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ place a classified ad for your valen­ 
Pandora's Books 233-2342  DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­ HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  tine. All Valentine's Day ads will  CASINO NIGHT IS BACK!  Get ready to celebrate.  
ND ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m-sat  265-7691  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's  Friday, Feb. 10, 1995  The festivities begin tonight.  
9-3 sundays  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-B  classified section of The Observer  Get to know a Knott Angel!  
ILOST & FOUND I  SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY RMIBD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  STUDENTS 2773097 FOR SALE  on Tuesday, February 14. You may place your classified Monday through Friday from Bam to  This year you need to get on The List. ......................................  Love, Club 317 and Melly 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21 21  
Found: •••BIKE LOCK KEY ... On  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL  3pm. We are located on the third  
2/3195  IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING  One rdtp. ticket to Ft. Lauderdale.  floor of Lafortune. Place your ad  ...The Group that Dare Not Speak  
brand name is "Rhode Gear".  ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball,  Leaving 3111, ret. 3/1B. Must sell.  now and beat the rush!  its name will be meeting at 7:30pm  Burgundy,  
-Bill  X1862  Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf,  $250 or best offer. Call X3704.  in Lafortune Thursday night. Please  Ohhhhh ..... boy. Look's like you  
Guitar. Ice Hockey, Lacrosse,  ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE.  come if you are queer, happy,lov­ made it to 21, and almost scot -free.  
Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses,  'B4 RENUL TE ENCORE, 69,000  We're blessed with financial securi­ ing, caring, GAY, smiling,  Maybe Captain Jack can't bail you  
- Holy Kodak Batman!  Photography, Piano, Pool,  MILES, 5-SPEED. $450.  ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western  STRAIGHT, clam, angry, and most  out of this one, but just know that I'll  
I Lost a role of 110 film on Friday  Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes,  631-6521.  couple, stay-at-home mom.  of all SUPPORTIVE! ...  always be there. Stay safe, and  
Feb.3, 95 probably in the area  Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer,  Allowable expenses paid. B00-440­ keep away from that brown sugar,  
around or inside  Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski, ·  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  6024 Tracy & Doug  it'll turn your brains to mush. Happy  
LaFortune/J.A.C.C.  Windsurfing, Weights, Wood,  at $B5,900. First floor location.  JUNIORS:  Birthday to the greatest coffee  
call Wally at 4-3675  Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  Finished basement with full lavato­ PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW  Come to Senior Bar on Thursday  maker I know. It's like the song  
Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  from 5-7PM for a class dinner  goes, "Hey, Hey, What can I do?"  
406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431,  ground level. Lease back to owner  P.W Carnation Sale  catered by DON PABLO'S  I Love You,  
(800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on  through May, 1995. Call  $5.00 per person.  -Me  
campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­ (616)946-0700.  Buy a flower for that special some­ 
FOUND: Gold chain with  4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room ­ one.  Hll  
- interesting shaped pendant in DBTL week of Jan. 30. Call  Lafortune. STOP BY -No appoint­ment needed.  WALK TO ND!  Red-I love you  SUNSHINE WINE SUNSHINE WINE  Jen., Big surprises for you at the  
John xl-7485  3 bdrm, 1 bath ranch. New carpet­ Pink-You're snazzy  SUNSHINE WINE  SYR.  -An inside source  
SUMMER JOBS  ing, paint & furnace. Family room  Yellow-Friendship  
I LOST A PAIR OF GREEN AND  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  plus rec room with bar. $56,000.  White-I want to get to know you ...  Live this Thursday, Feb. 9  hey el, you're a dorkface.  maybe  
BLACK PRESCRIPTION EYE  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  OPEN SAT., 2/1B FROM 2-4 PM.  Green-???  at CLUB 23.  Ye-hawlll  someday your beautiful slovak will  
GLASSES IN A RED CASE, IF  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Barb McHugh  P.S. Special guests  come.  kidding, you're great..  
FOUND PLEASE CALL JENN AT  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Coldwell Banker  Feb. 6-Feb. 10 at Lunch and  THE JAGERMEISTER GIRLS  love, me  
X1460. THANKS.  CALL 1-800-786-8373  277-8000,235-3240.  Dinner at NOH and SOH.  no foolin'  thanks for your never-ending sup·  
port  
I LOST A PAIR OF BLACK CASH­ TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS  MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale.  PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW-PW  SUNSHINE WINE  
MERE GLOVES, IF FOUND  CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING  Complete system only $499. Call  SUNSHINE WINE  Hey Jana,  JUST KIDDING  
PLEASE CALL JENN AT X1460.  FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS  Chris at B00-2B9-56B5.  SPRING BREAK  
BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH  MARCO ISLAND, FL. BEACH  Chicken Lady loves life.  To the girlies of 6C Grace,  
LOST FOSSIL MAN'S WATCH. BLACK  CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS. GOOD SALARY, ROOM &  TICKETS  FRONT 2 BEDROOM CONDO, CABLE, POOL, JACUZZI. FRONT  x4634  Look what you've started. You're now quite a mess!  
AND GOLD FACE. POSSIBLY BY  BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.  BALCONY OVERLOOKS WHITE  Our snowman was smattered.  
TURTLE CREEK APT. REWARD.  CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU,  Marquette GAs needed  SANDY BEACH. OWNER DIS·  Desperately seeking ride to Padre  Who did it? We can only guess!  
ADAM 4-4332.  2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E,  Contact Bryon -1 042  COUNT. 212·474-1414  for Spring Break. Will split gas and  Our advice to you  
BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494­ tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at  As it is to all the best:  
I'm still missing my rings. I really  6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON  NEED KENTUCKY TIX (GA'S  Help-l'm still looking for my rings,  x2702.  Sleep with one eye open,  
really really would love my class  CAMPUS 316-DOOLEY ROOM­ PREFFERED) CALL DAN M. AT  my class ring especially. Any info  And don't dare take a rest!  
back. Any info, call Kenya x4-3711.  LAFORTUNE  234-6843.  call Kenya 4-3711.  Sheila Samson is almost 21111111  Good luck.  Love, 7B PE  

• *•• ..• ,. Jl.-\-, ... -"L •&.--. .. -. .....-........ .,..,.____ .,_-...,.,.-. .... _._ •...,
ll. •.;,. 41
6 I ,. t f 

Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE SPORTS 


First female athletic director in Big Ten resigns 
By JEFF HOLYFIELD 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

Merrily Dean Baker, the first woman to head a Big Ten ath­letic program, announced her resignation Wednesday, saying a change would be best for her and Michigan State University. 
"I have mixed feelings about leaving Michigan State University, but I believe that the time is right for me to do so," she said. 
She and the school president, 
M. Peter McPherson, appeared together at a news conference to announce her resignation. 
McPherson, who fired football coach George Perles on Nov. 8, insisted that Baker wasn't forced out. 
"This was a mutually reached decision. The sole basis for our decision is a shared commit­ment to doing what is best for the university and for Merrily," he said. 
McPherson and Baker said they'd been talking about the future of the athletic depart­ment for the past six weeks and 



CLASS DINNER THU:RS, FEB. 9 
ATALUJVI~I SE~IOR CLUB 5-7PJVI 
IWDO~Jl1[l((111l!J{J]Jl/J!m 111E@J:il 
~ 
.......--~·· 
I·
. 
. 


"The~~~ £nc.hllada.. £3~o~Rf 
(Q6JilllllJJlUl7l 

decided together that it was time for a change. 
"Together we reached the as­sessment that for Merrily Dean Baker and for Spartan athletics, we had come upon an op­portune time for change," he said. 
"Again, this was a mutual decision. This was an amicable decision." 
McPherson said a search for a new athletic director would be­gin immediately and would be quick. Baker said she'd agreed to stay on as athletic director at least through the end of March and would remain in East Lansing at least until the end of June to wrap up ongoing pro­jects. 
Her resignation is the latest twist in atroubled period for Michigan State athletics. 
It began in January 1990, when the school's Board of Trustees gave Perles the dual role of athletic director and football coach over the objec­tions of then-President John DiBiaggio. 
The dispute drew national at­tention as a clash between ath­letics and academics. Two years later, DiBiaggio prevailed and Baker was hired to replace Perles as athletic director. 
On her first day in the job, DiBiaggio called her to say that he was leaving to become presi­dent of Tufts University, near Boston. "I about fell out of my chair," she recalled Wednesday. 
Baker and Perles clashed publicly and privately. Last March, a Baker memo to McPherson suggesting that Perles be fired was leaked to the news media. 
That prompted McPherson to demand "a commitment to col­legiality" among Perles, Baker, and senior associate athletic director Clarence Underwood, who'd hoped to get the AD's job when Perles lost it. 
Baker insisted it was her idea and would free her up to do fund raising and pursue more creative ideas for the depart­ment. 


~~asyli,~teili 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North South Bend, IN 46637 
(219)277-1291 
ATTENTION GRADUATE STUDENTS The current Graduate Student Union President and Vice President will be holding an informational session on Monday, February 13 from 8 to 9:30p.m. in the Foster Room in LaFortune. Topics of discussion include:. budget requirements, work load and other requirements of the office holders. The Graduate Student Union is searching for interested candidates to run for the 1995,96 President and Vice ..President positions. Successful candidates will possess: *Excellent communication skills *Ability to work independently or as a member of a team. *A desire to protect and improve the quality of graduate student life, in all its complexity *A commitment to the democratic process, upon which the GSU is established Previous officers have been compensated with a stipend of $1 ,500 per year, upon the successful completion of their terms. For more information, please contact the GSU office at 631-6963 or e-mail Notre.Dame.GSU 1 @nd.edu. CALENDAR OF EVENTS Feb. 13... Information Session , 8 to 9:30 p.m. (Foster Room in LaFortune) Feb 22 .. . Submission deadline for candidates March 6 .. . Pre,election, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. (GSU Office, 219 LaFortune) March 7 ... Pre,election, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. (GSU Office, 219 LaFortune) March 7 .. . Debate, 8 to 9:30p.m. (Foster Room in LaFortune) March 8 .. . General Election , 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. ,Hesburgh Library Concourse/Arts & Letters ,Nieuwland Science 1st floor lobby/Science ,Cushing Hall/Engineering Please note that the site of the Debate has been changed from the ND Room to the Foster Room. Also, the Pre,election permits all graduate students who can not make the General Election day to vote. On the General Election Day you must go to the site which includes your department.  


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday,· February 9, 1995 Kalamazoo, Michigan, is the. game, and according to
• BASEBALL 

lone member of the quartet Petrucelli, Gerardo, Tufts, and
Wo01en's 
who will be close to home next Vanderberg had their minds
Congress rejects Clinton's continued from page 20 year. She is a four-time all made up prior to the Tar Heel 
conference selection and a route. 
proposal to end strike 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Congress had a message Wednesday for baseball players and owners: Leave us alone. 
President Clinton's special legislation to settle the strike with a three-member panel of independent arbitrators seemed doomed even before it arrived on Capitol Hill. 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said they had no in­tention of moving quickly to force an end to the six-month strike. 
''I'm not sure that Congress has the wisdom, or should have the ability to intervene in a sin­gle industry that's not a matter of national safety," Gingrich said. 
The Republican leaders, who have the power to bottle up any bill, met with mediator W.J. Usery for about 40 minutes in Dole's ornate Senate office. Usery met separately with union head Donald Fehr. 
Clinton, speaking in the Roosevelt Room where talks were held the night before, said he had no regrets about trying to end the strike. 
''I'll send the legislation up. They'll hear from the American people and they'll make their own decision," he said. "If we had a baseball commissioner, maybe none of us would have been in here." 
Dole said his office received about 1,400 telephone calls about the strike by midafter­noon and that they ran 5-to-1 against intervention. 
Other Republicans criticized Clinton for attempting to per­sonally mediate the dispute. 
''I'm afraid the president has ratcheted up the issue in an almost incredible fashion," said Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz. 
"I think it's a dumb idea. We have much more important fish to fry," said Rep. Steve Stockman, R-Texas. "For a president who claims to cham­pion the middle class, he cer­tainly spends a lot of time try­ing to settle disputes between millionaires." 
Even some Democrats dis­agreed with the president. 
"I think we have a lot more important things to do than baseball," said Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del. ''I'd like to orga­nize a group that if baseball comes back, we'd boycott base­ball. And I'm a baseball fan." 
But Rep. Charles Schumer, D­N.Y., backed the president dur­ing a news conference with three other congressman and Sen. Bob Graham, D-Fla. Schumer called Dole and Gingrich "the Sultans of Not." 
Clinton's bill, sponsored by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., and Rep. Pat Williams, D-Mont., would give the presi­dent authority to appoint a three-person "national baseball dispute resolution panel." It would~accept proposals and arguments from both sides and formulate a settlement. Neither side could go to court to over­turn any decision. 
"If we want a 1995 baseball season, this may be the last re­sort," Labor Secretary Robert Reich said during a news con­ference at the Mayflower Hotel, site of the failed talks. 
The proposed legislation doesn't contain a provision that would force an end to the strike. The bill directs the panel to issue its plan "as soon as possible." 
Players and owners, who spent four hours at the White House with Clinton and his staff on Tuesday, left the capital and returned home. No talks are scheduled, and it appears they won't meet again until next Wednesday, when they are to testify before a Senate sub­committee. The hearing will take place just one day before spring training starts with re­placement players. 
"This doesn't change the task we have before us," Fehr said after players and owners left the White House. "I guess we'll have to try and regroup and consider what has to be done." 

~Jti~h Qartden~ ~Qoltist 

•
Long-Stem Roses 

•Other 
Fresh Cut Flowers 

•Stuffed 
Animals · 

•Candy-Filled 
Mugs 

•
Valentines Day Balloons


. 
Valentine·s Day is this Tuesday, so avoid the rush and place orders by Friday! 
• 


£toAe S:louA~: vUon -£at fQ:go -6:goprn $£ocated In t~e Cl?asernent o6 $£ac;:JoAtu~ 
4W­

the defensive midfield spot left by Tiffany Thompson's gradua­tion," Petrucelli said. 
Boxx said,"I am very excited to have the opportunity to play for Notre Dame. It is a great school and the soccer program is one of the best. Hopefully, I can help them get to the next level." . 
Also a midfielder from California, Gerrardo was a 1992 All-American and a mem­ber of the Under-17 national team. In addition, she helped lead the Fountain Valley Spirit to the 1994 national champi­onship. 
"Monica and Shannon are two girls that we think will step in and help us right away," said Petrucelli. "Monica's strengths are at the offensive end of the field. She's a goal scorer and a great distributor in the mid­field. Monica will be another weapon in our attacking style of play." 
Tufts, a midfielder out of Seattle, led her club team to the Premier I league championship and was also a member of re­gional and state Olympic Development Program. She scored 12 goals her senior sea­son in addition to being hon­ored as a two-time all-Metro Conference first-team selection. 
"Margo is a technically sound player with good feet," said Petrucelli. "She moves forward well and will fill our style of play." 
Vanderber, a mid-fielder/forward 
impressed with her work rate and she should develop into a contributor for us." 
According to Petrucelli, the team's loss to North Carolina in the finals had little effect on this year's recruiting. In fact, Boxx verbally committed to the Irish just two hours after the 
Recycle The Observer 

three-time all-state performer and all-region choice. 
"With Jodi (Hartwig) graduat­ing, we had to address a need at outside midfield," said Petrucelli. "Laura's speed and athletic ability match what we look for on the outside. I was 
With the Irish soccer team coming off such a successful season and considered one of the top programs in the coun­try, the girls will certainly have some huge shoes to fill. As to matching the 1994 team's per­formance, only time will tell. 

Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
ward recruit. and aggressive scorer," At 6-3 he has good size and is time we could hand pick play­He has scored 57 goals during Bocklage said. "Notre Dame very technical. He should im­ers for our needs. Whether to



Men's 
his four year career at likes to use a Jot of scorers on mediately challenge for the say they will dominate in their continued from page 20 Chaminade College Prep and the field and, if I work hard, I starting job in goal this fall." first year is unrealistic, but they earned all-state honors the past think I can come in and help "I'm definitely hoping to will be dominating players for 
two years and has played teams out." start," Vehlo commented. "I Notre Dame."
three seasons. from around the world as a He has also been a member of With the graduation of record broke records in high school member of one of the national the Olympic Development breaking goalkeeper Bert and I hope I can do it at Notre select teams. Program Region II team since Bader, and the lack of an expe­Dame." 

Hoops
According to Berticelli, 1990. rienced back-up the Irish need­Short is the second goalkeep­Mahoney resembles graduating "Benjamin Bocklage is a ed to land a solid goalkeeper. ing recruit for the Irish. He has continued from page 20 sweeper Kevin Adkisson by his workhorse and a front runner," They did better than that, they been all-state for Alabama for 
boards," MacLeod said. "Weon field intensity. Berticelli commented. "He can landed two. three consecutive years. In were more in our driving and"Matt Mahoney is a big player play the similar position Tim Vehlo enters with the most style of play he is a mirror op­inside mode tonight." 
with tremendous intensity. He Oates had with us. Where Tim impressive qualifications. He is posite to Vehlo and not likely to has a high work ethic and is was small and quick, Bocklage regarded as one of the top high give up the starting goalkeeper particularly strong in the air. 
Overall, Notre Dame cor­
is big and aggressive, and they school goalkeepers nationally position without a struggle. 
ralled 17 more caroms than didlie is a winner and a fighter, both have the same strong shot. and last April was named one "Gerick Short is an aggressive 
the Dukes, a statistic that
and we needed that defen­He gives us more strength and of the top 15 high school player that loves to play one­sively." 
compensated for the fact that
size in the front and also gives prospects by Soccer News . on-one. He is physically bruis­
Boeklage continues the trend the Irish were held for the sec­
us another player that is good As a junior he tied the Florida ing player that goes for the ball of the big player at 6-foot-3 and in the air." state record for shutouts in a aggressively in the air. He ond straight game without a 195 pounds, but is the lone for-"I see myself as a big, strong season with 20 and consecutive gives us a switch from Vehlo to three-pointer. 
AIE-IWI»>IIIIWIIII? 
HANDMADE UNISEX WOOL SWEATERS FROM GREECE COMING TO THE O'HARA LOUNGE FRIDAY IN LAFORTUNE. 
o 
As seen in Pier 1, Structure, LL. Bean, and J. Crew 

o 
Wholesale prices 



o 
Limited quantities available 

o 
Guaranteed quality 


o 
Also Debuting: Solid Sterling Silver Jewelry from the Greek Islands 



CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• 
''I'd definitely like to hit someshutouts with 10. He owns his match up with other teams bet­more threes, but I can't be toohigh school's record for career ter." 
concerned with tonight's effortshutouts and has a 0.25 career Aside from the goalkeepers, (0-2)," MacLeod observed. 
goals against average. the others also have opportuni­He was also named Florida's ties to contribute early and of­With Kentucky on the horizon goalkeeper of the year, named ten especially with the gradua­(Sunday), maybe he should beto the National Soccer Coaches tion of 12 seniors this year. 
a bit worried. 
of America All-American Team, The Irish are also looking at Manner is not though. 
and has been a two time all­one or two more players, but "We just have to go in men­
tournament team selection in are pleased with what they 
tally sound and play a strong
the prestigious Pizza Hut have signed and anyone else 
forty minutes of basketball,"Tournament. "would be frosting." 
the freshman said. 
"Greg Vehlo has all the tools," "We are really pleased with Although it wasn't flashy, lastBerticelli said. "He's very com­this group," Berticelli ex­night wasn't a bad precedent. 
posed and relaxed in the goal. plained. "This was the first 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
DON'T BE AFRAID OF THE DEEP WATER 
Think about your oldest friend (no, not your 99-year-old friend; the friend you've loved the longest in life). Amy is my oldest friend ­we've been friends for almost 20 years. When we were twelve, Amy and I met for the first time at St. Athanasius grade school. We discovered that I was a little taller and she could run a little faster, and a friendship was born. In high school, we used to walk to church together on Sunday mornings and talk about what we wanted to do with our lives. Although she now lives with her husband and children in Minneapolis, she was in town briefly on Sunday and Monday, and (as usually happens with your oldest friend) we were able to jump right into the midst of each other's lives -into our fears, struggles and happiness, and once again, into what we want to do with our lives. 
I've had several occasions recently to think about how questions of "what we want to do with our lives" usually involve really hard choices -and how we're not meant to make those choices alone. 
In last Sunday's Gospel, Jesus told the disciples that they had to cast their nets out into deeper water. They would find their nets full of fish, he promised, in the very places where they had just come up empty. So often we are encouraged to cast our nets wider -to do more, to take on a second major, another club, a new activity. Perhaps Jesus' challenge to the disciples is a message for us as well. Maybe we need the courage to dig deeper; to acknowledge that we can't -and don't need to -do it all. We know how it feels to try to be two (or more) places at once, to know we didn't have the time for a friend because we had too much work to do, to realize we turned in a not-so-great paper because we'd had many other meetings to attend and commitments to fulfill. We promise ourselves that "once I have a real job" or "once my life settles down" it won't be this way anymore. Someday, we believe, we'll have enough time for quality work, quality relationships, regular prayer, Mass every week, regular exercise, and plenty of sleep. Oftentimes, however, we have cast our nets too wide, and it's easy to avoid the deep water. 
We had twelve seniors over at our home one night last week. After dinner, they wanted to talk about the choices they will have to make when they have families and careers. Does the mother stay home? Does the father stay home? Can we choose both a full-time career and a full-time family life? We weren't able to even come close to any final answers, except to acknowledge that the decision to have a family involves wonderful -and terribly tough --choices. We will always have to make hard choices between competing goods or risk simply skimming the surface oflife. 
As I've returned to work part-time after the birth of my son, I've discovered that if any of us thinks we can be Superwoman, or Superman, we're fooling ourselves. To give Kevin the time and love I want to means that I have chosen to give up many of the other ways I used to spend my time. Furthermore, I can only be a decent mom and fulfill my responsibilities at work because I depend every day on the support, talents and understanding of my family, colleagues and friends. No matter what our vocation in life -whether God's call to us is to be married, single, or a part of a religious community-we will be forced to make difficult choices in order to follow that call, and we can't do it alone. 
We cannot believe that we will hear God's call alone. Whether with life-long friends, mentors, fellow disciples, beloved family members ... we are meant to pray, to listen and to question with others. We are meant, too, to allow ourselves to depend on others -for advice, support, and love. If we believe that we have it all, that we can be self­sufficient, then we have not cast our nets deep enough, and we will pull them up empty. If we are willing to admit that we simply can't have it all, we can take the risk of reaching down deeply into our lives, to find lives offaith, lives of relationships, and lives of commitment. 
Kate S. Barretl 

SIXTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. Feb. 11 5:00 p.m. Rev. Jeffrey Schneibel, C.S.C. 
Sun. Feb. 12 10:00 a.m. Rev. Michael Driscoll 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C. 
Scripture RiuJ,dingsfor This Coming Sunday 
. ~.tt·m.l~H~a?'i''!'i;'''Jeremiah 17:5-8 
'1,ll!l<dl ffi.®~~ 1 Corinthians 15:12,16-20 
cGr©~jp)~ll" Luke 6:17,20-26 
-
-

Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
•NBA 

Punch costs Maxwell Robinson's 37 tames 'Wolves 
$20,000 and 10 games 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Vernon Maxwell of the Houston Rockets was sus­pended for at least 10 games and fined $20,000 by the NBA on Wednesday for running into the stands and punching a heckler during a game at Portland. 
The fme matched the highest in league history and the sus­pension was the second longest. 
Rod Thorn, the NBA's vice president for operations, said the case is unprecedented in his 10 years in the league. 
"We've never had anybody go into the stands, unless it was a fight among players that spilled over into the seats." he said. 
Maxwell must meet with league personnel during his suspension. A decision will then be made regarding his return to active status after 10 games have passed. 
The supension, without pay, began with Wednesday night's game at Sacramento. Maxwell's ejection from the Portland game Monday night carries an additional automatic $1,000 fine. 
Thorn anounced the decision after league officials viewed videotape from a freelance tele­vision cameraman. People who have seen the video say it clearly shows Maxwell connect­ing a right-handed punch to the jaw of 35-year-old Steve George. 
Maxwell, who has a notori­ously bad temper, ran a dozen rows into the stands to get at George during the third quarter of Houston's 120-82 loss to Portland. 
The only longer suspension in league history was· handed to Kermit Washington. He was suspended 26 games during the 1977-78 season for punching Rudy Tomjanovich. 
Three other players have been fined $20,000 -Bill Laimbeer (1990), Charles Barkley (1990) and Greg Anthony (1993). 
Barkley also was fined 

-
$10,000 and suspended for a game in 1991 for spitting at fans. The target was a heckler but he hit an 8-year-old girl in­stead. 
George, a home products salesman from Atlanta who was in town visiting family, said Maxwell punched him on the left side of his jaw. 
A police report filed by George has been forwarded to the Multnomah County district attorney's office. 
George·s attorney, Richard Maizels, said his client would sign a complaint with the dis­trict attorney. 
Maizels said a civil lawsuit also is possible but believes there is a good chance of a set­tlement. 
Derek Ashton, a deputy dis­trict attorney, said he had re­ceived the police report on the incident and had sent it back for a followup investigation. He said he wants police to inter­view Maxwell as well as other witnesses. 
Ashton also said he is attempting to acquire a copy of the videotape of the incident. 
George must return to Oregon to sign the complaint, Ashton said. George's attorney has been in contact with Ashton and said his client intends to sign the complaint but doesn't know when he will be back in Oregon. 
"We have a lot of assault-four cases and I'm treating this case just the same as I am all those other cases," Ashton said. 
A fourth-degree assault con­viction carries a maximum penalty of a $5,000 fine and a year in jail. 
Maxwell's prior record will have no impact on whether charges are filed but could be a factor at sentencing if he is convicted, Ashton said. 
Cameraman Carl Wikman, on assignment for a Yakima, Wash., television station, was sitting on the floor a few feet from the end of the Houston bench. He said his video shows the escalating confrontation between Maxwell and an entire section of the crowd. 


-
1995 French Film Festival Tonite @ 7:00 pmCushing Auditorium $1 admission 
Set in Martinique(a French Department) in 1931, the film "traces a young boy's escape from poverty through a combination of ambition, education, a surrogate father's wisdom, and a grandmother's indomitability. "Sugar Cane Alley is the work of a world class filmmaker and is to be seen and savored ... " ~ 
Andrew Sarris --Village Voice __]l.W BRING THIS AD IN FOR FREE ADMISSION --­
Associated Press 

Glenn Robinson scored 37 points, including all eight of his free throws in the fourth quar­ter, as the Milwaukee Bucks rallied to beat the Minnesota 
Timberwolves  100-93  
Wednesday night.  
Trailing  80-79,  Johnny  

Newman put in Yin Baker's miss to put the Bucks ahead for the first time in the fourth quarter with 6:11 left. 
As the Timberwolves brought the ball up the court, Robinson and Doug West pushed each other and both were called for taunting. Robinson sank the technical for the Bucks and Isaiah Rider for the Timberwolves, but the ex­change seemed to spark Milwaukee. 
Todd Day, who scored 19 points before fouling out, im­mediately followed with a bas­ket and a 3-pointer to give the Bucks an 87-81lead. 
The Timberwolves got no closer than five points the rest of the way as the Bucks made all eight of their free throws down the stretch. 
Sean Rooks scored a season­high 23 points for Minnesota, which lost for the 12th time in its last 13 road games. 
The lead changed six times in the third quarter, the last time when Doug West made one of two free throws to give Minnesota a 72-71 advantage. 
Orlando 110, Dallas 92 
If only Orlando coach Brian Hill had been right, the Dallas Mavericks might have had a chance. 
Hill sensed the Magic might be ripe for a letdown in its final game before the All-Star break Wednesday night. However, the Atlantic Division leaders shook off a slow start and coasted to a 110-92 rout. 
"It was a game we needed to close out the first half the way we wanted to," Hill said after Anfernee Hardaway scored 20 points and Shaquille O'Neal had 19 in three quarters to help Orlando improve to 23-1 at home. 
"You're always leery, espe­cially when they're looking for­ward to a break or looking for­ward to playing in the All-Star game and you have that one more game to play," Hill added. "We were a little sluggish com­ing out of the gate ... but after that we were able to control the game." 
Orlando reached the All-Star break with a 37-10 record ­best in the Eastern Conference -and is 10 games ahead of last year's pace when the Magic won a franchise-record 50 games. 
Despite losing 11 of its past 13 games, Dallas (18-28) is the only team in the league that has already exceeded last sea­son's victory total (13). 




J~~N'S 
525 N. HILL ST 233-8505 
Presents an action packed Rock &Roll show plus 
Seniors Night this Thursday. 
:Featuring 

Sweep the Leg Johnny 
james Bokow -Drums, Wilfred freYe-Bass, Christopher Daly-guitar, SIP!en Sostik-'100111 and saxaphone 
GUESTDJ'S 
The Palmster-lower level & Tony D.-upper level All 21 and over students with IO's admitted for $1.00 all night. Entertaim18nt starts at 9:30 pm, free admission before 9:30 with Sll.dent 10. $3.00 after 9:30 pm with sllK:Ient 10. Watch for a very special 
Jazzman's Valentine College Night 
Tuesday, February 14 state law prohibits night club's from admitting people under 21 
SAT. AT 8PM IN THE LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 

Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALl 
Eagles outlast Big East rival Hoyas, 78-67 

Associated l'ress matched one career-high with into the game, leaving 12 points and surpassed an­Tennessee with six scholarship
Boston College coach Jim 
other with 10 rebounds for the players -only one taller than O'Brien hopes that a victory Eagles. But Abrams hurt the 6-4 -to go against the bigger, 
over No. 20 Georgetown on 
Hoyas most. deeper and fifth-ranked 
Wednesday night will inspire "I hate the guy, to tell you the Wildcats, who beat the the Eagles to turn their season 
truth," Thompson said, proba­Volunteers 68-48. around. 
bly joking, though you couldn't "It was very difficult to play a lloyas coach John Thompson, 
tell from the somber look on his game like this because youmeanwhile, hopes that a three­face. "But I respect the way he have power forwards and cen­game slide will teach his young plays. ters trying to guard backcourt team a lesson: There's more to "He does a lot of things in the players," Kentucky coach Rick 
college basketball than 11­
post that post players need to Pitino said. "Tennessee was an 
game winning streaks. 
do. It's just irritating. He hurt undermanned team anyway,"Sometimes when you win 11 us where we were soft. You've and when they lose their best 
in a row, that's good," said 
got to respect that." player and best rebounder it Thompson, whose lloyas had "We just made a couple of became very difficult." 
climbed to No. 10 in the rank­mental errors at the end of the If not impossible. 
ings before losing five of their game. We made some stupid After Hamer left, the Wildcats next eight games. "But I think a 
fouls at the end and they were controlled all facets of the in­
little pain can help you also." 
converting them," Iverson said. side game. There was no fi­
Sophomore Danya Abrams 
"It's a learning experience. The nesse to it. It was a matter of scored 21 of his 29 points in the 
season's not over yet. We're height and numbers, and there second half for Boston College just having a difficult time right was nothing the Vols could do. 
(8-11). which won for only the 
now." "It really is a bad game,"second time in 11 Big East 
Georgetown shot just 28 per­Pitino said. "You can't get too games. 
cent in the first half, missing all much out of it offensively or 
"It doesn't get a whole lot 
10 3-point tries. Iverson had defensively. It's an unfortunate 
better than that for us," 
eight points and five steals in situation to be in, but this is the O'Brien said. "I cannot be more the first half, but was just 2-of-last year (coach) Kevin (O'Neill)happy that they stepped it up 7 from the field. will be in this situation. Next 
tonight, especially with the way Boston College wasn't much year he'll have more numbers things have been going." 
better. The Eagles shot 30 per­and each year they'll get better 
Freshman guard Allen 
cent, with Abrams getting eight and better, but it's not a fun Iverson scored 20 points for the first-half points on 3-of-9 shoot­game to coach, not a fun gamelloyas (14-6, 7 -5) before fouling ing. He also had seven re­to be part of." 
out with 1:44 to go. Georgetown 
bounds in the half and finished O'Neill has seen his team has not won at Boston College 
with 11. steadily dwindle since he took since the Eagles moved into the 
over for the fired Wade 

Conte Forum in 1991. 
No. 5 Kentucky 68, Houston this season. Hamer's 
"They are the villain wher­Tennessee 48 injury is not believed to be seri­ever they go," O'Brien said of 
ous, but he did not return 

Georgetown. "It's because of Wednesday night. 
Whenever a Tennessee player 
the respect everybody has for O'Neill said he was proud of
moved into the view of a
them and the respect they have his team's effort after Hamer
Kentucky Wildcat on
for the program. They're the went down. 
Wednesday night, he almost
team to beat. 
"I thought our team played as

inevitably led with the top of his 
"We're happy tonight. And hard and as well as they couldhead.
I'm hoping we can get a little 
under adverse situations

Seven-foot center Steve
confidence off this." 
tonight, maybe as much as any

Hamer was injured 76 seconds Freshman Antonio Granger 

"Easy As Pie" 

Home-made Baked Goods 
~~rawit~[jijfil~~ ~<!!~ ~[p~iii!J3~~ 
Decorated Sugar Cookies-$5.50/dz 
Free Delivery & Gift wrapped to ND/SMC students Call Barb (after 5 p.m.) 234-5845 
Applications are now being accepted for 



llanaaer Posii:ions 
at 


Alu111ni Senior Club 
for the 1995-96 academic school year. 
\J ~ You may pick up applications at the 
~ ~ 
~CLU~Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. ~JVlO Deadline March I st 1995 
group I've been around," he said. 

PM on Saturday. For rates and Tuesdays and Thursdays from
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

more info call the Golf Shop at 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI 1-6425 or RecSports at 1-6100. is located in the Rockne RENTALS -Rentals are avail­BENGAL BOUTS -Training Memorial and anyone inter­able to students, faculty, and occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the ested in using it must attend an staff. Rent skis, boots, and JACC. Anyone interested orientation session. For more poles. No reservations neces­should please contact Jeff info call RecSports at 1-6100. sary. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Goddard at 287-8041. SPORTS TALK-This Sunday Thursday and Friday and 11:00 CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE at 7:30 pm on WVFI 640 AM: AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. -The climbing wall is now open Irish Men's Basketball co-cap­Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday for use. The hours will be tain Lamarr Justice. Call in and Sunday and 11:00 AM-2:00 Sundays 2:00-5:00 and with your questions and com­
ments at 1-6400. ­
MEN'S TENNIS vs. Ohio State Saturday, February 11 at 
3:15 p.m. at Eck Pavilion. VS. North Carolina Sunday, February 12 at 1 p.m. at Eck Pavilion. 
SWIMMING & DIVING vs. University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee at 2 p.m. Saturday, February 11 at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY: Bring a plain T -shirt or sweat shirt to the ND hockey games on Friday and Saturday nights and they will hot-press the Notre Dame hockey logo on it for you free of charge. 
--~-------­


-------------, 
Thursday, February 9, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 18 
Belles return home to dissapointing loss to Defiance College, 80-53 
By SHARI MATELSKI Sports W rirer 
Last night the Saint Mary's basketball team returned from Ohio having battled with the 25th ranked team in the nation in Division III. 
They returned with slight dis­appointment to the loss they in­curred. Defiance College had totaled a score of 80-53 with their top player Jenny Brown scoring 23 points against the Belles. Some good did arise out of this competition. 
Jen Taubenheim ranked in with 19 total points. 17 of those were scored in the second half. Katie Lalli was not far behind with 10 total points. 
The problems seen by the head and assistant coach were concentration based. The three hour drive did not help keep the girls thinking about their goals or plan of attack. This factor was definitely apparent in the game. There was a loss of strength and energy. The offense did not however meet of the challenges that they faced. 
"I was a little disappointed in the outcome. since the girls have talent that just was not displayed on the field. They should have done fairly better against Defiance" assistant Coach explained. 
This is one thing both coach­es agree on. The challenge faced tonight will be quite dif­ferent. The place is Brown Middle School in South Bend. The challenger is University of 


" 


Belle leading scorer Jen Taubenheim had 23 points in a loss to 
Defiance College. 
Indiana South Bend. 
The outcome is promising and a win is within the players grasp. With the present score of 5-11, the next six games will be very challenging. The ad­vantage will soon be in our court though. The last five games are on home soil. Support of fans can only im­prove this teams capability and positive outlook. They will be the ones to watch as this sea­son slowly comes to a close. 

liE 110RRIS INN 
Of NOTAl D41U 
NOIRE DAME, INDIANA 46556 

"Be A Sweetheart" 
Valentine's Day 
Dinner Specialsfor two 
Tuesday, Feb. 1 4 
-

Dinner from 5:3 0 p.m. -8:3 0 p.m. 
Enjoy adining experience in 
the trne spirit of Notre Dame 
For reservations call 
..a.& 
VARSITY SHOP 


Perception. 7* * 
3$ 

........ 
Volleyball :~1"7L~~:i~~;7:~:!:~~: 
continued from page 20 ~~~:t~:eu~e;:~~t ~~~ i~:~!~e~~ Irish head coach, Debbie returning, Brown is very op­Brown, is confident and opti-timistic about next year and the mistic about Treadwell's con-future of Irish volleyball in gen­tribution to the Irish team. eral. "We are very pleased Lindsay "We were hoping to sign two has accepted our invitation to recruits, but we are very happy continue her volleyball career about signing Lindsay," said at Notre Dame," said Brown Brown. "Lindsay will probably be "And with the strong nucleus used as a middle blocker, but we have coming back, we are she has the skills and athletic very optimistic about the fu­ability to play any position on ture." 

FLORALCO.
I Remember Yot.r Sweetheart OC. on Valentine's Day/ 
""_ .. _ 327 Lincolnway West, South Bend ....,... 232-3354 
Mary B. Green 
Come in and Browse 
' 
Open daily 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Sundays 9:00a.m. to 12:00 Noon Serving Notre Dame and St. Mary's Serving South Bend, Mishawaka & Granger for over 60 years 


Observer Marketing Department 
Put your talents to work! 


Client Service 
positions 
• 
Are you creative? 

• 
Do you enjoy good advertising? 

• 
Would you like to promote the accounts oflocal businesses? 

• 
Are you hard-working? 



Artists & 
Designers 

• 
Are you interested in commercial design? 

• 
Would you like the opportunity to work with the Observer's Marketing team? 

• 
Would you like your work to be seen daily by 13,000 readers? 

• 
Are you hard-working? 


The Observer is welcoming resumes for the above paidpositions until Friday, February 
10. Ifyou have any questions contact Tom Lillig at 631-8839. 


Reality!_ 
"SPRING IS 

:oa:tJc -$-NEAR!" 
-Punxsutawney Phil


$~ **______,. 
"The Groundhog" 

~~ 

New SPRING Merchandise Jus/Arrived. 
Thursday, February 9, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTI-IER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS 

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
fl..S I 1-\f>-'JE CRt.P..IED ~0\J, SJ er--N I Dt.SIRO'i ~0\J! 
DILBERT 
1\.IERt.F"ORt., IN RECOG~I\\ON or M~ S\JI'RE!v\E ~'f.II:.R, 
~Cl\J M\JSI 'NOR':.\-111' lv\'C .' 


~---------------------;~ 
0'" 
0 
"' 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Account 53 Palette pigment receivable 
55 Pipe hole 

1 Meeting: Abbr. 
28 Actress 
56 Move

5 Byron's "best of 
Samantha 

59 Words to the 
prophets" 
31 "Mr. --Builds 
wise

12 Freight earner 
His Dream 
61 Crackpot

14 1979 hit by the House" (1948 
Police film) &2Vassals &3Sonofa-­
15 Convert a 36 Old World deer 
(nautical

message 37 She played 
epithet)

16 Henunciat1on of '50-Down's 
64 "Cabaret" star
faith partner 18 Poirot's "Man 38 "I read you" --!" 39 Mugfuls 
DOWN 

19 "No Time for 41 "Allah-!" Sergeants" (Teheran cry) 1 Actress Braga playwright 42 Dig in 2 Hyundai model 21 Mr. Ziegfeld 43 Hangs five 3 Tonto's equestrian role? 
22 Place of 45 "Pique Dame," drudgery e.g. 4 Long-faced 24 -Valley, 48 Arthur Miller 5 Robert E. Lee's Calif. play, with "The" reins? 26AIIoy 52 --Tin Tin 6 Rain dancer, maybe 1 Nebraska Senator James 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8--dedeux 
9 Army crawler 


SCOTT ADAMS 
I CALL A MEETING TO 
DISCUSS THE ISSUE. BUT 
lS5UE. ONE.: LET'S GO f".ONKE.Y AROUND THE 

45 Three-time Hart 51 Barely makes, Trophy winner with "out" 46 Old Milwaukee 53 Cartoon competitor canine 47 Result 54 Muse of history 49 Earth tone 57 Bambi's aunt 
so Title character 58 Second 0 of in an 80's police 0-0-0 drama 60 "Savvy?" 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

ON 1"\Y I=OUf\TH DAY OF 
T£.LE.COr..MUTING I f'EALilE THAT CLOTHE5 ARE. TOTALLY UNNECESSARY. 
BILL WATTERSON 
~ES, 13~ 13HORt. MIG\-\\'( 0.\.\J\t-\ fl.S-\D iRt..lv\13\.t: I 8:)1<. 
I Alv\ 11-1E t.TE.RI'IPIL, 
All KNClW\1\\G ... 

~  SUDOE.NLY I  AM. STRUC.K  
~ 0  BY A QUESTION:  WHY  
~  DON'T MONKEYS  GROW  
;  BEAR05?  
ATTENDANCE 15 LOW. 


~~~~~~------------~ 
10 Super blooper 11 Induction motor 
pioneer 12 Hospital count 13 Turned back on 11 Reiat ive of 
"Ouch!" 20 Permit 23 French sea 24 Turf 

"Girldyap "? 27 Current administration 28 Flub 

29 Gunk 30 Graphic start 32 Give confidence 
to 33 San Francisco's -Hill 34 Transcript figure, for short 35 Mideast land: 
Abbr. 37"-real!" 40 Ewe said it 41 Annual playoff 
grp. 44Arcadian 



2-9 

"Wait, don't call the plumber yet. 1 think I can see the end of the plunger!" 
• 
James J. McKenna will give a lecture entitled "When Stone Age Babies are Born to Space-Age Parents" today at 4:15pm in 126 Debartolo. 
Wolfgang Streeck will lecture on "The German 
Model: Does it Exist? Can it Survive?" today at 4:15 in Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
CASH ESL Classes will be held tonight at 7p.m. in the esc. Any students or teachers are welcome. Ques­Call Mike l)iaz 4-2067. 
The Free Sketch Comedy Show will be held Friday at 8p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. See the Humor Artists (HA) perform sketches and songs in the Spirit of Kids in the Hall, the STATE, Monty Python, and SNL(when SNL was funny!). 
ECDC SMC and ECDC NO are in need of volunteers (once a week-75min/day) who enjoy activities with chil· 
ages 3-6. Contact Cindy Hestad at 284-4693. 
Black Coffee House will be holding a celebra· 17 at 7 p.m. in honor of Black History 
Notre Q;~me 
NORTH SOUTH :~"'"wBeef Chop Suey,, Southern Fried Chicken ·' Country•Fried Steak Chicken Acropolis 
Monster Cookies Texas Sheet Cake 
, Saint Mary's 
. Call 284-5400 for information. 
...:,.:/ih~.=~~:i:\ 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

at the recently refurnished HUDDLE 
-· 

ophomore Literary Fest 
Heshurgh Library Auditoriurn saturday 8pm 
·­


:!V!aEk Leyner 
,_ 

... 

SPORTS 
Thursday, February 9, 1995 
• iASKHBAU 

Win means winning season 
By TIM SHERMAN season," a satisfied MacLeod Miller, along with White and Assistant Sports Editor said. "This was a good solid Derek Manner, who chipped in effort." 11 points provided the Irish 
Last night, Notre Dame daz­The Irish led throughout the with some strong play off the 
zled the less-than-lackluster 
contest, maintaining a comfort­bench. 
Joyce A.C.C. crowd with two 
able cushion in the neighbor­"Again, they came off the 
alley-oop slams, one to Admore 
hood of 15 points. bench and gave us a nice White, the other to Matt Gotsch. 
"We looked like we had con­boost," MacLeod noted. The excitement ended there. trol but this was a hard-fought Once again, freshman Pat In an otherwise uneventful game," MacLeod said. Garrity led the Irish in scoring
evening, the Irish cruised to a With seven minutes remain­(along with Jason Williams)77-62 victory over the under­
ing, the Dukes sliced the lead to with 15. In addition, Garritysized Dukes of Duquesne. The 
13 on the strength of the long­grabbed 12 rebounds. win was important in one re­
range shooting of reserve Bert It was in the paint where the gard, though, as it insured John 
Seay. That would be as close Irish were most effective, with MacLeod's club of their first 
as they would get, as Pete many of William's points com­winning regular season in five 
Miller took Seay off the dribble ing under the basket. seasons. 
on the next Irish possession "I like the way we hit the "All I know is that this win 
and converted a three-point
gives us a winning (regular) 
play. 
see HOOPS/ page 15 

Another quality 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Yesterday Matt Mahoney, fill this specific need for size Sports Writer Matt Johnson, Benjamin and strength." 

class for Petrucelli 
Bocklage, Greg Vehlo and The sizes range from Matt Four years ago new Notre 
Gerick Short each signed let­Johnson at 6 feet and 175 By MICHAEL DAY our goal of winning a nationalDame men's soccer coach Mike ters of intent to play for the pounds to Benjamin Bocklage 
SportS Writer championship."
Berticelli started his program 

Irish. at 6-foot-3 and 195 pounds. 
A major reason for the suc­on the path towards the na­Last season the Irish faced Johnson will be either a de­High school soccer stars of 

cess of this year's team was

tional championship, and after some difficulty against some of fensive midfielder or sweeper today will attempt to become the successful recruiting sea­two consecutive NCAA tourna­
the larger teams because of a for the Irish. Notre Dame stars of tomorrow. 
sons of the past three years.

-ment appearances and the 
lack of size. this class, like He is a member of the United Wednesday was national 
Each of the previous three

graduation of his first recruit­milk, has helped them grow. States Under-18 squad, has signing day for high school classes was nationally rankeding class, Berticelli ushers in a 
"We were one of the smallest captained the Olympic soccer players, and women's 
and boasted several of the 

new class of recruits to con­teams last year," Berticelli ex­Development Region IV team coach Chris Petrucelli confi­nation's most sought aftertinue this success. plained. "With this class we since 1992 and was named the dently unveiled the four players. Although this year'sGatorade player of the year for newest members of the Class 

crop may lack the one big star, the Pacific Region. of '99. The quartet. composed they certainly have the poten­"Matt Johnson is a big and of Shannon Boxx, Monica 
tial to continue the trend. 

strong player, and is a very Gerardo, Margo Tufts, and "As far as number, this 
technical player for someone Laura Vanderberg is long on 
group may be a little thinner,"his size," Berticelli said. talent and fills several of the ·said Petrucelli. "But if you had "One of the great things program's needs according to to look at it, they certainly are 
about him is his leadership Petrucelli. 
comparable to some of our 

ability and awareness on the Of course. with the women's
•~el ..t;j,>it '!ll!i!i:lil·tint.j;M past classes." 
field. He will fill our needs in team coming off an incredible 
Boxx, a midfielder out ofMatt Johnson Livermore, CA Defender terms of his tremendous physi­23-1-1 season in which they Torrance, California, is a two­cal abilities and his versatility finished runner up to North 
time Pioneer League most

Matt Mahoney..,:+tb,,v.OakviUe, Oot. ,;w p~fender 
on the field." Carolina for the national valuable player who recorded Mahoney is another big de­championship, expectations
Benjmin Bucklage St~Louis, MO " Forward 16 goals and 10 assists during
fender for the Irish. He has are at an all-time high. 
her junior year at South HighGreg Vhelo LOI'}QWO()~, FL ~q!,l~~!l)er played for the Canadian "As a group, this recruiting school. She was the first of the Under-20 National squad for class is very athletic and each four girls to sign her letter of
Gerick Short Mobile~"AL ·· Goalkeeper 
player fills a specific need for intent to Notre Dame. 
:;q.g: = -~,+~#L: ·. . 

see MEN'S I page 15 us," said Petrucelli. "All four "Shannon is a very versatile players are attacking players athlete who can step in and fill who like to move forward well. They should help us toward see WOMEN'S! page 14

Volleyball's 'lone star' 

By BETSY BAKER the Irish. named first-team all-district SportS Writer Despite the fact that and an academic all-state 
_, 
Treadwell is the only player of selection, in addition to being 
When the 1995 volleyball the 1995 recruiting class for selected as the CenTex co­season opens. the Notre Dame the Irish, she is a welcome MVP. Treadwell also found volleyball team will be looking addition to the team that ended success on the track as she to its youth to make up for the last season ranked 12th with a was regional qualifier in both 
graduation of two of its top 33-4 record. cross country and track and players.. In addition to names Treadwell, a 5-11 outside field. She also comes from an 
like Jen Rouse, Angie Harris, hitter/middle blocker, was a athletic background, as her and Jamie Lee, Irish fans will three year starter at Austin father. John, was an All­be hearing the name Lindsay High School in Austin, Texas. American football player at 
Treadwell, the latest in the In her last season of high Texas. legacy of top recruits signed by school volleyball, she was see VOLLEYBALL I page 18 

Monica Gerardo Simi Valiey, CA Midfielder Margo Tufts Seattle, WA Midfielder Laura Vanderberg Kalamazoo, Ml Forward 

of note...
SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
The Men's tennis team will face 
Mter a competitive game against no. 25 
Ohio State this Saturday at 
Ohio, the Belles loss a dissappointing 
1p.m. and North Carolina
--
game to Defiance College, 80-53. 
on Sunday at noon.
see page 18 








