·~­

Thursday, September 28, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 29 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT J\11ARY'S 
Water main rupture floods Keenan's top floor 
Rooms on several levels hit; lead pipe suspected as cause 
By JOSHUA NELSON 
N~sWriter 
Residents of Keenan Hall awoke early Wednesday morn­ing to the sound of the fire alarm. For some, it was a rou­tine fire drill at a bad time or someone's idea of a practical joke, but for those on the fourth floor it was a way of let­ting the rest of the dorm know that a serious problem was occurring. 
Around 1 :30 AM a hot water main in the computer room on the fourth floor burst. A combi­nation of hot water and steam set off the lire alarm. causing the building to be evacuated. 
Apparently, the lead that sealed the pipe could no longer withstand the pressure. Water spilled from the computer room into the halls, eventually work­ing its way into students rooms on the floors below, and collecting in the basement. 
"I turned around, and water was dripping out. I tried to stop it, and once I realized it was futile, I got out of the room," said Greg Bauer, a fourth floor resident who was working in the computer study lounge at the time. 

Both the fire and police de­partments were called, along with a plumber to turn off the water and make sure there was no danger to the residents. 
Once the ordeal was over. ev­ery room in 4-West and the basement were flooded; car­pets on every floor were soaked, and the assistant rec­tor's rooms had water damage. Two brand new IBM computers in the computer lounge were destroyed. 
"I was in utter shock. I was coming up the stairs and peo­ple were all crowded in the hallway looking at the water as it came down the hall," said Tim Ferrick, a fourth floor resi­dent who experienced the dam­age first hand. 
Many students tried to stop the water from coming into their rooms by setting up bar­ricades of towels, clothes, and The Observer/Alison Frick anything they could get their Keenan Hall residents are airing out their belongings and assessing the water damage after Wednesday's 
early morning flood on the fourth floor. 
see FLOOD/ page 4 

Propane gas leak controlled 
Over-filled, misplaced tanks to blame for Friday scare 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame Fire De­partment brought a propane leak in Flanner Hall under con­trol Friday evening. 

According to Operations Chief John Antonucci, firemen re­sponded to a call by Notre Dame Security at 7:25 p.m. to remove overly-compressed propane tanks. 
The excessive compression caused the l-eaks, Antonucci said. 
The tanks, mistakenly stored in the hall government office, were supposed to have re­mained outside, according to Father Bill Seetch, rector of Flanner Hall. 
A Matter of Gender 
A round table discussion in the Gender Studies Department yes­terday focused on several facets of the involvement of women on campus. See page 7 for a related story. 
"If the tanks had been where they should have, they would not have leaked," Seetch said. 
Firemen spent about ten min­utes to complete the project, Antonucci stated, adding that the propane tanks posed no threat to the students. 
"'The propane odor is very recognizable," he said. 
The tanks were then disposed of by the office of Risk Man­agement and Safety. 
No evacuation was necessary and there were no injuries. 

Having fun is serious business for frosh reps 
By GILLIAN BRADY 
News Writer 
"We have one main goal...to have fun." 
Although these words, spo­ken by Robert Herman, a newly elected freshman representa­tive from Morrissey, may sound simple enough, most members of the Freshman Class Council will tell you that creating fun for 1900 freshman is slightly more difficult than it sounds. 

Each dorm recently selected one freshman to represent them in a campus-wide council, to discuss both dorm-specific and campus-wide issues con­cerning freshmen. The Fresh­man Class Council is a relative­ly new idea, and this year's members hope to strongly im­pact freshman life at Notre Dame. "This place is great, but any way to make it better is good, 
see FROSH/ page 4 


SMC frosh face runoff ballot 
Tully, Barrett, Wehby to square 
off Monday 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's N~s Editor 
Last night's election returns are in. However, Saint Mary's class of 1999 is still without a President and Vice-President. 
Six freshmen gained a major­ity vote, earning board status. The race for the President and Vice-President still remains undecided, with only a four percent spread between the top three candidates in Monday's run-off election. 
"All the percentages were close, so it's fair game for any­one on Monday," said Emily Ruffner, elections commis­sioner. According to Ruffner, 
56.8 percent of the class showed up at the polls. "It was a great turnout, especially for the first class election," she said. 

Melissa Hanson, Alia Hawkins, Melissa Kill, Mary Musante, Rebecca Oliva and Courtney Wagner currently hold seats on the freshman board. According to Ruffner, the seven empty slots will be determined by the new class president and vice president. 
"I'm excited about what we can accomplish together, with the board and the class of 1999," said Wagner, whore­ceived the top percentage of votes in the elections for board seats. 
All three presidential candi­dates cite more interaction with the voters as primary goals for the remaining campaign time. Throughout the election, class unity and new ideas for activi­ties ranked as popular platform positions among the candidates. The three candidates now try to separate themselves from their 
see SMC/ page 4 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 28, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Anew and sobering alternative 
It's Thursday after­noon, and you, the aver­age Notre Dame-Saint Mary's student, are sit­ting in your 1:15 class. The professor's drone slowly loses hold of your attention and your mind begins to wander. Your 

thoughts turn to the Brad Pendergast coming weekend, and Associate News Editor you sift through the pos­sible options to liven up -------­your Friday and Saturday nights. You could go to the SYR on Friday, you could make the scene at Turtle Creek on Saturday, or some­where along the way you check out the dorm party down the hallway. 
Translation: you could drink, you could drink, or you could drink. 
As The Observer's series on alcohol at Notre Dame illustrated two weeks ago, the social scene on these two campuses revolves heavily around drinking, and around drink­ing heavily. In the third installment of the series, Father Malloy called upon the stu­dents themselves to come up with solutions to the excessive reliance on alcohol. So here is my suggestion to dilpming the spotlight that beer and liquor so richly embrace here: 
A new student hang-out center devoted completely to great music, smooth dancing, and good food, without the presence of a drop of alcohol. Don't get me wrong: I'm not a prohibitionist. But I get the feeling that hundreds of students here drink simply because it's convenient, and, as the saying goes, "There's nothing else to do." That's why we need a place where we can take a break from the weekly obligation of getting drunk and have a good time without feeling like we're missing out on something only because we're sober. 
Envision a building roughly half the size of 
LaFortune's first floor with a similar design. 
It would have ceilings of a height similar to 
LaFortune's, with windows running from 
floor to ceiling. Built on a corner of land on 
the field next to the ungodly Stepan Center, 
the building would fmally provide something 
pleasing to look at when students venture 
over to Stepan Fields. 
The interior of the building would include a dance floor and a section of tables and chairs where students could hang out and talk over a coke or a milkshake and a slice of pizza. Adorning the walls and the balcony of the smaller second level dance floor would be memorabilia from Notre Dame athletic achievements gone-by: pennants, photos, posters......,. you name it, ifd be there. Banners highlighting our school's national championships would hang from the rafters. 
Open from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. on weeknights, 
10 a.m. to 2 a.m. on the weekends, the center 
would also provide a place for students to 
relax and escape from academic pressures. 
How to pay for it? It's time that Notre 
Dame allow food businesses to pay royalties 
to open franchises on campus. Papa John's 
would be the perfect supplier of pizza, and 
I'm sure that Coca-Cola would jump at the 
chance to be the official soft drink of the new 
building. With all the possible corporate 
sponsorships, the building could practically 
pay for itself. 
Notre Dame has the Alumni-Senior Bar as 
a convenient location for seniors to enjoy a 
beer on campus. It's time that the University 
provide _a hang-out for the rest of us. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S StAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Dave Tyler Michael O'Hara 
Heather Cocks Production 
Sports Heather Dominique 
Mike Day Peter Ashmeade 
Thomas Schlidt Lab Tech 
Graphics Mike Hungeling 
Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation P"riods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Ben Franklin gets bigger, moves left in new $100 bill 
Ben Franklin i!"'~(g~!~GJ~~tly · M~r;;'Ktiri'''y~t~,,~~fi~';;;;,!:ll!'Jii'cn"FW" ....,,., ''" I ~::ee;·le~tso~i~=~::: t~a~r~:eec~ 
left of center and maybe even looks a little more youthful on the 
new $100 bill. The new-look founding father was on display Wednesday as the government took the wraps off its new bill to launch the first overhaul of U.S. 
currency in nearly 70 years. The goal is to thwart increasingly 
sophisticated counterfeiters 
worldwide -not to improve aes­thetics, officials said. According to Treasury Secretary Robert 
=::~!:o,o:::.-~.Z' =:::r.!'~.!~,'f,;;,~~::::~ :=:-.,::;:,:::-~:' :~:~!':."~;:;::~!:.""~,:-;:;,
:::;,·,:-::;;::;•:on 
"""'lca'edbyphotocopleso,comout•' 

~~·,.•na' 
~.. ~-1---,lZl ~S:~ ~;:e:. 
~.':'~~~":1..7.'!".;::, r,:;~:·:.:'"= :::~:,;-:~ =~~ ~:~::,;~:!!:~~\!:~. :;.;:::,-w"" :;::a.;::::.-;:.~~ ?~,';:'.;;;';;',!~::'!..-· ~,::::;,-_... =~';.":.:!'::0':.::;""" 
against wear and tear when the bills are folded and to make 
room for a watermark portrait of Franklin that is visible when bills are held up to the light. Franklin also appears a bit younger, but officials said only 
because his hair looks darker for reasons of contrast. Of the 
numerous security features in 
the new bills, some are hidden while others change the appear­ance of the notes dramatically. 
~:l~i~,s~:::~~s c~:Jl~te;~s~n~~~!§!~,~~~,:,:", ,,;;;~~ .."~ APIT-.-!~et~:~~=a~f~~t~~~~~ ~~~:~ 
threat to the greenback if the United States fails to act. Under tight secrecy, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing has been producing the new $100 bills for 10 days. It will be early next year before the general public can get its hands on them. And it may be the turn of the century before all the smaller denomi­nations-right down to George Washington on the $1 bill-are remodeled. The government picked the $100 bill for the first makeover because of its favored status with counterfeiters. The portrait of Franklin, a pioneer in campaigning for paper currency, is 50 percent larger than on existing bills and extends from upper to lower 
Clinton-Yeltsin to meet next month 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin have agreed to hold an abbreviated summit meeting on Oct. 23 in Hyde Park N.Y., the White House announced today. Clinton and Yeltsin spoke for 20 minutes today, discussing the upcoming meet­ing -to be held in conjunction with a United Nations session in New York ­

and recent peace developments in Bosnia, said White House spokesman Mike McCurry. "The president under­scored ... the importance the United States attaches to continued close cooperation with Russia" as the peace process moves forward in the former Yugoslavia. The two presidents discussed Tuesday's agreement in New York by Bosnia's factions on a formula for sharing power once the four-year war ends. Clinton told Yeltsin "we would welcome a Russian participation in the NATO-led force" that would go into Bosnia after a peace agreement to help enforce it. McCurry said Clinton also intends to go to Moscow next spring for an international summit on nuclear nonproliferation and disposal of nuclear materi­als. 
Drug dealers set dog on fire 
NEW YORK 

A 6-year-old dog named Granpa faces a long, painful recovery because someone set him on fire. His family be­lieves street-corner drug dealers were angry because his barking scared away their customers. On Wednesday, the Siberian Husky mix was eating and trying to walk ­a vast improvement from his condition two days earlier. The father of the 11-year-old girl who owns the dog said he heard Granpa howling, looked through the window and saw the dog in flames. By the time he threw on some clothes and ran to the yard, the dog had broken loose and was running down the street. Firefighters helped catch him. When Granpa was brought to the clinic, he had open wounds on both his front legs, his neck and his face, and his hair was mostly singed off. Granpa will need intensive care for a month or two. 
color-shifting ink. The number 100 changes from green when viewed head-on to black when seen at an angle. The watermark portrait of Franklin at the far right can be seen when held up to the light but does not reproduce on color copiers or comput­er scanners. The size is unchanged. They still say, "In God We Trust," and the colors are the same, black on the front, green on the back. However, the vertical secu­rity threads, introduced in 1990, will be placed in differ­ent positions, depending on the denomination. The last major change in U.S. currency was in 1929, when bills were reduced in size and given a uniform look. 
College Heads paid over $400,000 
WASHINGTON 

Six presidents of American private colleges made more than $400,000 last year and 19 others made more than $300,000, a survey found. John Silber, Boston University's president, led the group for a second year, earning $564,020 in pay and benefits, according to The Chronicle of Higher Education, a weekly journal for the profession. The year before, Silber earned $775,963, including a $300,000 bonus. The Internal Revenue Service, Congress and the Clinton administration have become increasingly interested in salaries of top officials of no.nprofit institutions in recent years. Private colleges must report the pay and benefits of top officials to the IRS each year, in part to keep donors informed. The Clinton administration is considering increasing penalties for failing to file the form, or for deliberately filing incompletely. The five top salaries: 
• John Silber, Boston University, $564,020. 
• 
Peter Diamandopoulos, Adelphi University, N.Y., $523,636. 

• 
James Daughdrill, Jr., Rhodes College, Tenn., $461,458. 

• 
Joe Wyatt, Vanderbilt University, Tenn., $459,046. 

• 
Iqbal Paroo, Hahnemann University, Pa., $440,477 




Scalding enchilada ruled safe 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 

A Mexican restaurant accused of selling "unreasonably dangerous" enchiladas does not have to pay damages to the family of a 6-year-old girl burned by hot cheese, a jury ruled Wednesday. The panel deliberated about 45 minutes before clearing Taco Casa of negligence. Steve and Paula Gray had sought $250,000 in damages. They said their daughter, Mahalia, suffered second-degree burns from cheese sauce that dripped from an enchilada bought at a drive-through window in June 1993. The Grays' attorney, Cooper Shattuck, said the food was "sold in an unreasonably dangerous condition ... extremely high temperatures." But Steve Wiggins, a Taco Casa attorney, said there was no evidence it was too hot and blamed the girl's mother, saying she "handed it to her in a moving vehicle and let her get hurt." 


• NATIONAL WEATHER 
Thursday, Sept. 28 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 28. 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather. Inc. 

Pressure ~ 
H L ffi &'Sl rnl 0 ~ E3 i:) L.J. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWE'RS RAIN T-STDRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY n CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VlaAssocialedP1'8SS 

AHanta 77 57 Dallas 91 73 New Orleans 92 70 Baltimore 77 53 Dayton 79 53 Philadelphia 75 52 Boston 64 44 Denver 71 48 Phoenix 93 73 Calgary 72 41 Las Vegas 82 63 San Diego 73 62 Chicago 79 58 Milwaukee 73 59 Yonkers, NY 66 52 

Thursday, September 28, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• ACLOSER LOOK AT..• THE JOAN 8. KROC INSTITUTE fOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES 


reparing stude or difficult que s' 



By KATIE DONOHOE Now under the administration Senior Ceila Loughlin, a Biol­peace through a number of ac­CPS is not yet a major. Lopez News Writer of The Kroc Institute for Inter­ogy major with a Concentration tivities provided by the Center believes it may never be. The national Peace Studies, CPS in Peace Studies, added the for Social Concerns. According University does not have inter­
The Concentration of Peace combines knowledge with skills concentration to her major as a to CSC Faculty Advisor and disciplinary majors at the Studies (CPS), approved in 1983 related to peace issues in an way of balancing professional Peace Institute Fellow Kathleen undergraduate level. Therefore by the College of Arts and Let­attempt to prepare students to life with service to others. She Maas Weigert, three such op­changing from a concentration ters, was created to give Notre answer difficult questions on lo­plans to use the skills she has tions for CPS students are in­to a major in Peace Studies Dame students the opportunity cal, national, and global levels. acquired through the peace volvement with Social Concerns would ultimately involve the to complement their major with CPS is a fifteen-hour. five­program to give something Seminars and Summer Service creation of an entire depart­studies focused on the issue of course program beginning with back to the community. Says Projects, student organizations ment. peace and other related ideas. an introductory level peace Loughlin, "the program opened dealing with peace related is­The faculty of the CPS cur­
It gives students the "oppor­studies class and culminating up many ideas and perspectives sues such as The World Hunger rently consists of more than tunity for horizontal learning in with a senior project. Stu­I never would have seen be­Coalition and the Student Peace thirty professors who teach and a University structured in verti­dents can select courses from fore." Studies Association, a student conduct research at the Peace cal departments." according to more than fifteen university CPS students have the op­organization comprised of CPS Institute; each are also mem­the Director of Undergraduate departments divided into four portunity to gain hands-on ex­students and other undergrads bers of a department in one of Studies, George Lopez. general themes. perience in the field of attaining interested in peace studies. the Colleges of the University. 
Graduates seek to connect experience with employment 
By AMY SIEGEL manner," said Rosemarie Green, coordi­Nt-ws Writer nator of the Peace Studies Program. "These individuals are motivated to find 
This spring graduates will face perhaps ways of combining their family and per­their toughest question: "So, what are sonal lives with volunteering," she contin­you going to do with your degree?" ued. 
'However·, this question takes on added Another popular choice among students meaning if your degree includes a con­in the Peace Studies track is the pro­centration in Peace Studies. The answer gression toward graduate degrees. may contain several different facets. as a Patricia Lynn is one such student. variety of individuals find ways to utilize During her undergraduate career at the knowledge they have acquired Notre Dame. she took a government class through Notre Dame's Concentration of entitled "The Politics of South Africa" Peaee Studies . with Professor Peter Walsh. Through this 
One constant is the perspective that she recognized a real desire to go to graduatt1s of the Peace Studies Program South Africa; with help from Professor bring with them into the work world, ac­Walsh she found the ideal opportunity. cording to program faeulty and alumni. After graduation, she spent 14 months in Tho program repeatedly instills in its stu­South Africa as a volunteer teacher. dents a broader perspective on the world; Upon her return to America, she took a it is this background that often leads the position working for Clean Water Action, students to their future careers. a non-profit lobbying group. Now, two 
One of the most popular choices for stu­years after originally leaving Notre dents with degrees from the Peace Dame, she has returned here to pursue Studies Concentration is to pursue a year her masters in Peace Studies. Following of service. Undergrads often find that her graduation from that program in post-graduate serviee is an excellent way June, she hopes to focus on the area of to li.IIIill the inner desire that drew them community organizing. to the Peaee Studies Concentration. "The work I have done in Peace Studies 
In conjunetion with the Center for has given me a broader perspective on Soeial Concerns and Peace Studies facul­life and awakened my consciousness to ty, students often find internships the World," she commented. "My future tbrough such organizations as Catholic plans will always be affected by the work Helief Services, Jesuit Volunteers, various I have done." Washington-based programs, as well as Another one of Notre Dame's Peace international opportunities, said Robert Studies graduates has worked to fulfill Johansen, Faculty Fellow of the Peace that desire that originally attracted him Studies Program. to Peace Studies. Lou Nanni. now the 
Other Peace Studies Concentration Executive Director of The Center for the . graduates opt to pursue a career in the Homeless in South Bend, is a graduate of area from which they received their pri­both the undergraduate and masters pro­mary degrees. utilizing their concentra­grams in Peace Studies. tion in their extracurricular activities. He found that the Peace Studies 
"If an individual has leaned toward this Graduate progratn,gave him "a greater avenue during their college years, it is perspective and the chance to enter into . The Observer/Brian Hardy 11kely that they will continue to do these rigorous mental thought in a process to The Hesburgh Center houses the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. things in their professional lives in some seek change at a significant level." 



Bishop's letter starts growth 
By JOHN MUSEWICZ instituting a special course re­Dame through its international News Writer lating to non-violence. Three graduate students and foreign years later this idea expanded scholars, but also takes Notre Nuclear war isn't widely dis­to produce The Joan B. Kroc Dame out to the world through
HET-

cussed at Notre Dame and Saint Institute for International Peace the network of its alumni and Mary's. Studies, according to Professor by extensive international con­
But this wasn't the case a of Theology John Yoder. tributions by its fellows." said mere decade ago. A turbulent It was the efforts of Father Director Raimo Viiyrynen. world and a surplus of Theodore Hesburgh, former Despite being relatively new, devastating weapons put President of Notre Dame, that both programs are growing human existence in jeopardy. gave the project strength; with quickly and raising awareness So the question remains, "Who the direction of former Gover­of the peace movement. The or what prevented the destruc­nor of Ohio John Gilligan, the number of students in the un­tion?" program had organization. The dergraduate program varies 
Although it wasn't the sole final piece was contributed by yearly; the masters program force, an action taken on May Joan Kroc, whose donation to­graduates about twenty stu­3, 1983, played a major role. In taled approximately $12 mil­dents a year, said Yoder. response to the growing nu­lion. Through it, students learn the clear threat around the world, Now an accomplished pro­skills needed for order, under­bishops in the Catholic Church gram on campus, Notre Dame standing, and non-violent prob­of the United States took action. is one of the few universities in lem solving. Approximately They presented a letter to the the country with Peace Studies three-fourths of those in the world titled, "The Challenge of in an undergraduate concen­program are from overseas. Peace," stressing the need to tration, graduate program, aca­The education reaches far be­make peace the world's top pri­demic research, and policy out­yond the campus boundaries. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy ority. reach. Twice a year the Institute sends Posters promoting peace are a natural part of the decor in the Peace Notre Dame responded im­"The Kroc Institute not only out its Report to 1,400 peopleStudies building. 
mediately to the challenge by brings the world into Notre worldwide. 


page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 28, 1995 
Space junk prompts shuttle course change 
_GOP hikes college loan costs 

By MARCIA DUNN 

Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL 

The increasingly alarming threat of space junk has prompted NASA to change the way space shuttle Columbia will fly during a science mis­sion due to begin Thursday. 
For the first time, a shuttle will zoom around Earth with one of its huge cargo-bay doors partly closed to shield fragile cooling loops from tiny but dangerous pieces of debris. Normally, both doors are kept wide open to let heat escape. 
"We're living with the envi­ronment we have created," said Joe Loftus, a NASA engi­neering manager whose office recommended the change. 
.Columbia lifts off at 9:35 a.m. on the 16-day mission, one of the longest shuttle flights ever. 


Flood 
continued from page 1 
hands on. Others helped their friends move furniture and took pictures of the action on the various floors. 
One of those affected by the flood was the rector of 'Keenan Hall, Brother Bonaventure Scully. 
Aside from water damage to his room and the rest of the hall, he was generally pleased with the way that the situation was handled. "The kids did a 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
competition. 
Suzanne Barrett, of the Bar­rett-Kraimer ticket, said, "We're really positive about the next four years, and we hope to 

Besides growing semicon­ductor crystals, the seven astronauts will conduct fluid, fire and potato-plant experi­ments. 
The odds of a collision are re­duced greatly by opening Columbia's left cargo-bay door only halfway once the shuttle reaches its 172-mile-high orbit, Loftus said Wednesday. 
The spacecraft's coolant loops and radiators are on the interior of the 60-foot doors, which are closed for launch and landing but opened in orbit. 
Loftus estimated that with both doors wide open, there is a 1-in-28 chance that a piece of space junk could penetrate the thin, aluminum tubes, which contain a coolant necessary for keeping the shuttle electronics from overheating. 
great job. Eyeryone pitched in to make the best of the situa­tion." 
Those that had damage to any of their belongings are to prepare a list and submit it to the investigator when a total assessment is made. 
Students are also asked to keep all damaged goods as proof, but no guarantees can be made regarding their replace­ment. 
The fourth floor will be recar­peted and wallpapered during Christmas Break, but the re­placement of the computers is still questionable. 
elected." 

The Webby-Jackson cam­paign, according to Kate We­bby, promises that "we're the vision of the new Saint Mary's through our involvement. We are willing to work for our class to get things done. We will work and make improve­ments to get more class spirit 
By SALLY STREFF BUZBEE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Moments after Republicans on a Senate committee scraped together enough votes to make student loans more costly to borrowers, Democrats pledged another skirmish to reverse the outcome. 
Even the committee's Repub­lican chairwoman predicted her hard-won compromise will not last long. 
"This is not easy. No one likes making these changes," Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R-Kan., said Tuesday after the Labor and Human Relations Committee voted 8-7 to send-the plan to the full Senate. · 
The issue has proved tricky for Senate Republicans, who generally want to cut less from student loans than House Re­publicans. Under the seven­year plan to balance the bud-

Frosh 
continued from page 1 
too," commented one stu­dent. 
Although the council has met only twice so far, they have al­ready begun to discuss many of the projects they will undertake this year, as well as their hopes for what the Class of '95 as a whole can accomplish. 
"Being the largest class at Notre Dame-really gives us a chance to make a difference on campus," said Shaye Loughlin, Lewis Hall representative. 
Discussions have ranged from the restructuring of Freshman Orientation to ideas for class trips and, of course, fundraisers. 
The council's first fundraising event will be a concession stand at the Notre Dame-Navy game. 
Council members hope to get, however, Republicans in the two houses agreed the amount would be $10 billion. 
Sen. Edward Kennedy, D­Mass., the committee's ranking Democrat, blasted the GOP's ef­forts today, saying the cuts ef­fectively would make it more difficult for students to get a college education. 
"We're putting a sign on the colleges of the country that says 'wealthy only.' We're making education really reserved for the elite," Kennedy said on "CBS This Mor.ning." 
The White House also strong­ly criticized that plan. "This would dramatically re­
. duce support for Americans who want to attend college-," Lawrence J. Hass, a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget, said after the vote. "It really makes no sense to try to balance the budget by cut­ting education." Student loans are a crucial 
raise enough money over the course of the year to make charitable donations in addi­tion to fully supporting all freshman events. 
At their second meeting, the representatives compiled two official goals that express what they hope to accomplish this year for the class. 
First, the council will sponsor social events designed to help class members become better acquainted, thus promoting class unity. Secondly, they will organize service events, ensur­ing the freshman a chance to give back to the South Bend community. 
Stated Ryan Harding from Zahm, "Freshman Council is a great opportunity to get the class more organized and be as productive as the upper class­es." 
The most important function of the freshman representa­tives, however, is to make sure freshman voices are heard on concern for middle-class par­ents putting kids through col­lege. The amount of federally guaranteed loans jumped in re­cent years as more students at­tended college and tuition costs rose. 

As protesting students hissed, Democrats predicted changes could devastate students strug­gling to make ends meet. 
"It is wrong to rob student loans to pay for tax cuts for the rich," Kennedy said. 
Kassebaum's plan also faced objections from fellow Republi­cans. Sen. Jim Jeffords, R-Vt., supported Kennedy's calls for fewer cuts but, by not voting, allowed Kassebaum's proposal to move to the full Senate. Jeffords said he will fight the cuts on the Senate floor. 
Other Republicans, although favoring cuts, dislike a pro­posed new fee on colleges and may try to eliminate it during Senate floor debate. 
campus. All members of the council are open to feedback and ideas from their class­mates. 
"Suggestions let reps know what the class wants...that's what we're here for;" said Siegfried's Erin Herlihy. 
Elected freshman represen­tatives: Alumni, John Lowell; Badin, Marissa Grabato; BP, Kathleen Schlef; Carroll, Rus­sell Chiappetta; Cavanaugh, Suzi Prchal; Dillon, Greg Szilier; Farley, Sarah Taylor; 
Fisher, Brian Lacomb; Grace, Rajit Basu; Howard, Colleen Herbert; Keenan, Alfonso Ken­nard; Knott, Kristi Klitsch; Lewis, Shaye Loughlin; 
Lyons, Jennifer Weide; Mor­rissey, Robert Herman; Pang­born, Cynthia Serrato; PE, Bridget McNicholas; PW, Heather DeJesus; Siegfried, Erin Herlihy; Sorin, Dave Pien­ing; Stanford, Scott Cullen; Walsh, Deanette Weiss; Zahm, Ryan Harding. 

and unity." years of our life. We hope to Run-off elections were moved get everyone involved and ex­make this year one of the best 
to Monday, giving candidates cited about what's going on." 
the weekend for last-minute 
A1ill~IIDilll®IID. IF1r~~llurD1il~IID.11 §®JP)llu®rD1il®~~ &IID.<dl 
campaigning. Bartle ticket, stated, "We focus Mary Liz Tully, of the Tully­Votes may be cast from 8 

JJlllliiDD.®roo 

a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4:30 p.m to livering, because some of our on underpromising and overde­
7 p.m. in the LeMans entrance competition is promising of the dining hall. unreasonable things. We have 
The ticket that earns the Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition 
a lot of reasonable goals we highest number of raw votes will accomplish, and hope to 
wins the titles, according to use a lot of student feedback, if 
Ruffner. Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of the world outside of Canada and Western Europe. Applicable to most foreign study abroad programs. 

<\' 
Come to the informational meeting with Professor Jennifer Warlick on Monday evening, 
October 2, 1995 at 7:00p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo.
OF AMERICA 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
23rd Annual Summer Program 
NO SMC

Don't forget to pick up flowers 
Students


for this weekend's dance! 
[L(Q)mJ@@[)l) ~@[ffij)@ 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. 

Meill2Y gg = DM[)l)@ g~ DM[)l)@ ~ c6 = DM~2Y ~ .§ South Bend, IN 46635 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, & France Travel in France, Germany, & Switzerland 


(219) 288...3995 
Courses offered in 

Biology, Photography, Sociology, Business & Economics, History, Italian 
Organizational I Meeting -October 3 
7:00 pm Carroll Hall

Edison 
• Pizza Social • 

Past student and faculty participants will be present. For information call Prof. s!clck 
"All major credit cards accepted" 
CHAR.GE BY PHONE 
284-4460 or 272-3726 




Thursday, September 28, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• STUDENT SENATE 






Resolution seeks diploma ceremony for grads 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
Students want a say in how they will complete their Notre Dame education, according to the Student Senate. As a result of a Senate resolution passed yesterday, a committee may as­sist them. in having their voices heard. 
At its meeting last night, the Senate resolved that it "creates a committee of its membership led by the senior class, and in­cluding other undergraduates, to convey student interests re­garding this matter to the Provost Office." The Senate also stated that it "strongly recom­mends" that the Provost Office and the deans of the under­graduate colleges "work with said committee to develop ap­propriate diploma ceremonies" and that the Provost Office "begin meaningful discussion with student representatives of Student Senate and other branches of Student Govern­ment to re-orient the com­mencement exercises to reflect how the students want to com­plete their Notre Dame educa­tion." 
Three circumstances prompt­ed the Senate to create the res­olution, which was passed by unanimous consent: "Notre Dame does not currently have a 

IT'S12NOON. 

TIME FOR ANOTHER 
LIFE OR DEATH 

DEC ION. 

When you make a habit high<holesterol foods, you're choosing a dangerous course. One that could lead to a high cholesterol level in your blood and ~Y to a heart attack. Remember that the next time you browse through a menu. And place your order as though your life depended on it. 
VAmerican HeartAssociation 
'M'RE FK;H11f'G Frn'oO.R UFE 
This ~per prurided U I public service. '::::-::::-:::-:::-:-::-----=:~:7!----'
NW89-3b (41,4" W.K 5%" d.) 
diploma ceremony for under­graduates," "the current com­mencement exercises are not consistent with the per­sonalized and family-like nature of a Notre Dame educa­tion," and "the undergraduate community desires a personal presentation of diplomas." 
Student Body President Jonathan Patrick outlined the objective for the Senate's com­mencement discussion. "We'll organize a committee to discuss how this might work and fine tune it at the next meeting," he said. 
Having a departmental distri­bution of diplomas to make graduation "more personal" and having outdoor ceremony sites to allows more space and more guests to attend gradua­tion were concerns that would be discussed in the committee, according to Senior Class Pres­ident Kevin Kuwik. 

Asking the Senate to encour­age student input, Student Union Board Manager Katie Lawler explained that giving students a voice in how the commencement exercises are carried out encourages their in­terest in the ceremony. "The ceremony means nothing if the students don't care at all," she said. 
Urging underclassmen in the Senate to get involved, Lawler provided an incentive. "By the time you're seniors, you could have your ceremony outside," she said. 
• In other Senate business, South Quad Senator Seth Miller told the Senate that he had spo­ken with Rich Leary, director of Intramural and Club Sports at RecSports about physical fit­ness facilities on campus. Miller suggested forming a committee to voice students' concerns about campus athletic facilities to the administration. Miller said he would talk to dorm ath­letic commissioners and accept names of people in order to comprise a small committee of "about seven people." 

Gorno: Business, faith mix 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
She has "succeeded in busi­ness while maintaining her in­tegrity." Mary Lou Gorno of­fered her insight, as a product of what she calls the "premier Catholic women's college," yes­terday in a lecture on Faith, Women and Business. 
A Saint Mary's alumna, Gorno has worked for Proctor and Gamble, Disney; currently she is Vice President of Leo Burnet Co. 
Gorno went into advertising at age 27. She calls advertising "creative problem solving and the rock and role of business." 
Gorno emphasizes that the most important question in our lives focuses on what our lives are about and discovering our personal calling. 
She cares passionately about advertising, stating that "we should give ourselves to what we care about passionately. We should give ourselves to it fully." 

But we should also consider what our life's work is, and work "in conjunction with God's economy." 
According to Gorno, "Because there is so much more occupa­tional and physical mobility to­day, people have more time and more opportunities to negotiate our callings. People choose sec­ond, third and fourth careers as they move along the continuum of life." 
In the beginning of her ca­reer, Gorno encountered a woman who served as her role model. This woman had expe­rienced a meteoric rise to suc­cess that included receiving many awards and key recogni­tion. As her hireling, Gorno felt she was worthy of admiration and they shared numerous business successes. 
However, Gorno found that "we had different game plans. We shared business successes, but not value systems." 
In order to survive in a very competitive world, Gorno said, "we need to have a very strong sense of our own beliefs or they'll be shaped by our bosses, and then the next boss." 
Gorno says she found her an­chor in college, when she and her roommate wrote down what they believed. Today, she "refers back to that list mental­ly when I have to make a deci­sion. I weigh my decisions in light of those beliefs. This way, I uphold my values and I achieve success without losing faith. 
"By doing this, women can make a difference in the world without sacrificing who they are." 
Gorno commented that there are many examples of Saint Mary's alumna who have suc­ceeded in business "because of their faith, rather than in spite of it. 
Our Lady's Last Call to the World! 


Don't Miss It! 
Sr. Emmanuel is here from Medjugorje to give a retreat THIS WEEKEND Alll7 -30 year olds are welcome! 
BEGINS TOMORROW, FRIDAY, SEPT. 29 at 7:00PM-ST. JOSEPH'S HALL Register at the door (or call Tony Pillari 4 -0688) "Our Lady ofMedjugorje will save America!" Pm>e John Paul II 
September 25, 1995 message from the Queen ofPeace in Medjugorje 
"Dear Children! Today, I invite you to fall in love with the Most Holy Sacrament of the Altar. Adore Him, little chil­dren, in your Parishes and in this way you will be united with the entire world. Jesus will become your friend and you will not talk of Him like someone whom you barely know. Unity with Him will be a joy for you and you will become wit­nesses to the love of Jesus that He has for every creature. Little children, when you adore Jesus you are also close to me. Thank you for having responded to my call." 
RESPOND TO OUR LADY'S CALL! WE WILL SPEND TIME DURING TilE RETREAT ADORING JESUS IN TilE MOST BLESSED SACRAMENT 
JOIN US! 
ALSO: DURING THE SCHOOL YEAR: CHIWREN OF MARY INVITE YOU TO ADORATION IN ALUMNI HALL CHAPEL EVERY TUESDAY-3:00PM (MASS) UNTIL 7:00PM (BENEDICfiON) 
AND 
EVERY FRIDAY AFTERNOON IN SACRED HEART BASILICA (OUR LADY'S CHAPEL BEHIND THE MAIN ALTAR) ADORATION BEGINS AT 12:00 NOON -BENEDICTION AT 5:00PM 
page6 


Alywin visit kicks off Latin poverty seminar 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Assistant Accent Editor 
To complement his participa­tion in the Kellogg Institute's Workshop "Poverty in Latin America," Patricio Aylwin, the former President of Chile, spoke with students yesterday at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The informal luncheon pro­vided Aylwin, along with his wife Leonor, with an opportu­nity to address concerns of Notre Dame students who ei­ther participated in the Chile study abroad program or those who plan to go this Spring. 
A Candidate for the Christian Democratic Party, Aylwin was elected in 1989, ending sixteen years of military dictatorship in Chile under General Pinochet. Prior to his election, Aylwin earned his"livmg as an attorney while holding small, clandes­tine meetings to discuss democ­ratic ideas and Chile's future. 
Responding to questions of what it was like to be the frrst President under the new Democracy, Aylwin commented that his people, politically and ideologically divided for so long, were so eager for peace and liberty that his presidency was a relatively easy, rich experience. Aylwin fielded some more technical questions concerning the ramifications of NAFTA for Chile, his optimism for the future of Chilean democracy, and the changes the judicial system is now expe­riencing after being weakened by the long dictatorship. 
The Hesburgh Center's work­shop is scheduled for this week­end, and hopes to look ahead to the challenges facing the coun­tries of Latin America, especial­ly reducing poverty and increas­ing productive employment. 
During the luncheon, con­ducted entirely in Spanish, Aylwin cited his two primary concerns as social development for the poor in Latin America, and making current liberal and capitalist world models compatible with human Christian values. 
Patricio Aylwin will be speaking again Thursday, 

September 28 at 9 p.m. in the Keenan Basement. 

China drops reactor sales 

News seen as warming Sino­American relations 
By DONALD ROTHBERG 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

In another sign of improved U.S.-Chinese relations, China is dropping plans to sell two nu­clear rea~~ors .to Iran, Foreign Minister Qian Qichen said Wednesday. 
The announcement reflected a far more conciliatory tone from Beijing in recent weeks. At the start of a meeting with Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Qian also backed away from his government's harsh reaction to the unofficial 
U.S. visit of Taiwan's president last summer. 
But the more friendly dia­logue did not result in the an­nom~cement of a meeting this October between President Clinton and Chinese President Jiang Zemin. Such an an­nouncement was widely ex­pected. 
"Having a summit meeting and where it would take place is still under discussion," said a senior administration official, who discussed the Christopher­Qian meeting only on condition he not be identified by name. 
The official said the Qian "made it clear that the Iran re­actor deal would not be imple­mented." 
The United States has been pressuring Russia, so far with­out success, to cancel a con­tract to build nuclear power plants in Iran. The U.S. position is that the sale of any nuclear technology, even for civilian power generation, could have dangerous consequences. 
He welcomed the Chinese decision, but added: ''I'm not saying this clears up every pos­sible problem" regarding Chinese dealings with Iran. The Beijing government is also sus­pected of selling missile parts to Iran as well as to Pakistan. If proven, that would result in cutting off U.S. assistance to China. 
The official also said that 
SENIORS AND OTHERS INTERESTED BE SURE TO STOP BY THE 
~:::=:: ::::::: will follow on· ::':::'::::::: 

Qian delivered a letter .from Jiang to Clinton. He refused to discuss its contents but said it had "a constructive tone." 
At the opening of the nearly two-hour meeting, both Christopher and Qian empha­sized the recent improvement ofU.S.-Chinese relations. 
U.S.-Chinese relations deteri­orated sharply after the Clinton administration allowed Tai­wan's President Lee Teng-hui to attend a reunion at his alma mater, Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., in June. 


' ' ...it is about tapping an ocean 
of creativity, passion and energy that, as far as we can see, has no bottom and no shores. 

Jack Welch, CEO 

How would you describe GE's work environment? Open, inspiring, charged, fast-paced, non-bureaucratic, apolitical. We think you'll 
agree these are particularly appealing adjectives. 
We believe in being ''boundaryless." We've taken down walls that divide people, eliminated hierarchies and stripped out bureaucratic processes company-wide. And it's worked. We are a 60 billion d?llar global enterprise whose extremely diverse range of businesses are number one or number two in their markets. Others look to us for management best practices and our financial results have shareholders cheering. 
We want to hear from Bachelor's and Master's degree candidates. If you are bright, creative, passionate about your work and determined to make things happen, we want you to know we find these to be particularly appealing qualities. 
We'llbe on campus this Fall. Please check with the Placement Office for more details. 
Find out more. Contact GE University Recruiting, P.O. Box 55250, Bridgeport, Cf 06610. Or visit us on the World Wide Web at: http://www.careermosaic.com/em/ge 



Portland, Colorado Springs, Boston area, Bay Area, Phoenix, and Wilkes-Barre, PA, as well as two years in Santiago, Chile. 
An Environment Without Boundaries 
An aqua/ opportunity amp/oyer 
--------~--------~---~ -~----------­
Friday, February 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

J-boards striving to develop more visibility 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Assistant News Editor 
If you have ever been accused of violating quiet hours or of having an open container in the hallway, chances are you had to appear before the dorm judi­ciary board, better known as the J-Board. 
While judicial boards exist in every dorm on campus as re­quired by duLac, their function and the extent of their jurisdic­tion varies from hall to hall de­pending on the discretion of the rector. 
In a majority of dorms, the board operates as a student fo­rum to decide adequate pun­ishment for infractions of dorm policy as well as to supervise any elections held within the dorm. The types of cases that come before them range in severity depending on the de­cision of the rector. 
When an infraction is com­mitted, the rector has the op­tion to either send it before the Office of Residence Life in Stu­dent Affairs or keep it within the dorm; if the rector opts for the latter, it is his choice to make a ruling personally or send it before the board. 
Rectors typically handle any situations deemed of a personal nature, such as alcohol infrac­tions, while some rectors choose to handle almost all cases themselves. "Our rector really likes to use it [the board] so we do a lot of what other dorms' R.A.'s do," said Pang­born Judicial Board Chairper­son Amanda Collins. 
In Pangborn Hall, the board not has added functions. "We hear any problems that the rec­tor feels are not of a personal nature with disciplinary actions. We also help organize the policies involved with dorm dances such as alcohol policy or questions about the dance in general. If people don't want to go to their R.A. they can come to us," said Collins. 
According to Tom Matzzie, the President of the University­wide Judicial Council, there are two to three dorms on campus whose boards do little more than supervise elections. "In these dorms we are trying to develop the J-board's but it's a long term process. We have some rectors who have legiti­mate concerns about J-boil.rds," said Matzzie. 

Lyons Hall rector Sr. Kath­leen Beatty asserts that women's dorms generally do not have a need for judicial boards to handle dorm rule in­fractions because they occur so rarely in these halls. 
However, she would advocate a more involved board in the future, one that would handle other procedural functions in the dorm. She believes, "[A more active board] would make it easier on the hall staff." 
Sr. Maureen Minihane of Siegfried Hall similarly believes that, overall, women's dorms experience very few infractions. "I don't have any concerns with J-boards, we just don't really have that many cases. Any cases that would be of a disci­plinary or pastoral nature, I would rather handle personal­ly, though," she said. 
For those dorms that do have active boards, the rectors play little part in the board's rulings once the case is forwarded to them. "The rector has no in­fluence on our verdicts. We decide cases, although the rec­tor does ultimately house the ability to overturn anything we decide just so that, for example, friends couldn't let their friends off. It's a type of check on our power," stated David Bangert, Zahm's J-Board Chairperson. 


Panel sees need for women's space at ND 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
News Writer 

The Gender Studies Depart­ment, still feeling the reper­cussions from last Thursday's controversial forum on staff salaries, addressed another touchy subject in Wednesday afternoon's roundtable discus­sion. 
The topic, the role of women in Notre Dame student life poli­tics, was evaluated by om­budsperson John Borkowski, Freshman Year of Studies Dean Eileen Kolman, electrical engi­neering graduate student San­dra Yost, and CSC and Wom­en's Resource Center chair Erin Trahan. The panel was moder­ated by Gender Studies director Kathleen Biddick. 
As ombudsperson, Borkowski handles issues of harassment in the University, what he con­siders "psychological" space. "It is not enough to react to ha­rassment issues, but to create an open, warm, Christian envi­ronment that prevents ha­rassment." 
Despite Borkowski's wish that a proactive stance be taken by the University to pre­vent abuse, he suspects that much harassment goes on and is unreported. Part of students' reluctance might lie in the diffi­culty of coming forward. 
"This university tends to see a limited way to do things right, only one way to solve things," Borkowski said. "We need to establish different ways of op­erating, and realize that one method does not work for ev­erybody.'' 
Kolman addressed the reluc­tance of Notre Dame to estab­lish individualized structures. To illustrate her point, Kolman summarized the seven-year struggle to establish a Women's Resource Center. 
"In the spring of 1993, the Faculty/Student Committee on Women endorsed the Women's Resource Center, as did the Faculty Senate and the Gradu­ate Student Union," Kolman recalled. "In September of that year, the proposal was rejected by the Vice President of Student Affairs." 
Kolman said the reason for the denial was both financial and philosophical. "Philosophically, the Vice President doubted a separate center was the most effective way to address gender issues on campus." The Center was forced to apply for club status. 
Trahan attempted to address the role of the Women's Re­source Center in relation to these concerns, but admitted to some worries. "Our main mis­sion is to provide resources and address important issues like eating disorders, sexual assault, and academic change," Trahan said. "But in the ten days we've been open, eight people have come to us looking for information about eating disorders. I don't know if 
we're prepared to deal with a problem that severe." 
"We want to be a space for women, but I'm not sure we can handle the crisis situations we've had," Trahan said. 
PLANET HOilYWOODISHEAR lllDNESS 
&r1day NaY. 26th, $54.00 per person Tour Seals Tower and See C~ from the T"', Have I.1JlCII at Planet Holywood, and See lhe Hilarious Wlloci~Nt'Shear Machias' Transportation and t.kllorooacl1 Snacks lncUied 
CHRISTIIAS SHOPPING CIRCLE CENffiE MALL/Thwsday NaY. 16th 
WOODAELD IIAWFrlday Nov. 24th GURNEE Mtll.SISooday Dec. 3l'd Only $19.00 per pe!$011, and Includes lll8CI<s 
Lsi Jaguar help you create thai special bus trip Clll Todly (218) ~ Ofllce Hours: 8:00am -1~ Please Leave Message Aller Hours 
.lapTows apeciaJlzes In tours ol CololaOO and hi Rockies 





7~ S~IM -;¥'~if?~~ & th ~-"'~ ~ tde t6 UwiU ~t6 atted. th... 
DoNNOLLY LECTURE SERIES 
IN 
PARTICIPATORY MANAGEMENT 



MARTIN MANLEY 
Vicksburg Group 

"Employees or Business Partners'? Some Thoughts on Participation, Ownership, and Performance" 
Friday, September 29 Jordan Auditorium, College of Business Administration 

12:15-1:15 pm 

pageS The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 28, 1995 

Injection is 300th U.S. post-ruling execution 
By BILL BASKERVILL 
Associated Press 
JARRATT, Va. 

A man convicted of a mur­der-for-hire plot was executed Wednesday night by injection, becoming the 300th person put to death in the United States since capital punishment was reinstated 19 years ago. 
Dennis W. Stockton, 54, was convicted of killing an 18-year­old for $1,500 in what police said was a drug-related slay­ing. 
Stockton was expressionless when he entered the death chamber at the Greensville Correctional Center. 
He was dressed in a light­blue short-sleeved shirt, dark blue trousers, rubber shower shoes and white socks. 
He asked a guard to remove his glasses as he was strapped into a gurney. As the lethal injection was administered, Stockton's eyes remained opened for a moment, then closed. He swallowed once and lay perfectly still. 
Stockton's attorneys sought unsuccessfully to delay execu­tion so they could present affi­davits they said proved another man killed Kenneth Arnder. They claimed Stockton's acquaintance, Randy Bowman, killed Arnder. 
They presented affidavits last week from Bowman's ex­wife, his son and a former friend saying Bowman bragged of killing Arnder. 
Bowman was a key prosecu­
tion witness in the 1983 trial, 
testifying he heard Stockton 
agree to kill Arnder for the 
money. 
The man who allegedly 
offered Stockton the deal was 
arrested but never tried. 
Prosecutors said Stockton 
killed Arnder in Patrick County, 
60 miles south of Roanoke, 
then moved his body across the 
state line to North Carolina. 
Stockton had no final state­
ment, but recited Isaiah 26:3, 
"Thou will keep him in perfect 
peace whose mind is stayed in 
thee, because he trusteth in 
thee." 
The body was found in remote area July 25, 1978, with gunshots to the head, and both of Arnder's hands had been severed above the wrists. 
U.S. District Judge Jackson Kiser issued a 60-day stay Monday based on Stockton's affidavits, but the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond overturned the stay Tuesday night. 
The three-judge panel cited another affidavit by the sheriff of Surry County, N.C., saying that Bowman was in jail there when Arnder was slain. 
They also noted that Stockton's lawyers were pre­senting their claims 12 years after the trial. The U.S. Supreme Court denied Stock­ton's final appeal late Wednes­day, and Gov. George Allen re­fused an appeal for clemency. Stockton was the 43rd convict put to death in the United States this year, extending a record for most executions in a year. 
The previous record was 38 in 1993. He was the 27th per­son executed in Virginia since the death penalty was reinstat­ed by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1976. 

$2300 
FLAT MONTHLY FEE! 
for long distance calls to: ELKHART • WAKARUSA BRISTOL•OUNLAP MIDDLEBURY•GOSHEN 
If you're spending more than $23.00 per month for calls, 
YOU'RE PAYING TOO MUCH! 
We can start your service today ... 
START SAVING NOW! 
NO SPECIAL LINE OR INSTALLATION REQUIRED 
CALL USAT 
1-800-360-4990 Mon.-Fri. 'til 6 p.m. 

Polo Ralph Lauren 


Factory Store 


BACK-TO-CAMPUS SAVINGS. 
The Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store welcomes you back to Notre Dame University with a special offer: 
20% Off on your entire purchase, now through October 8th. 
Present this ad and show your current student I.D., 
you'll save an additional 20% on everything. 
Power 


Lunches 
Have you ever had a question about the basics of the Catholic faith but you just weren't sure who to ask? Ever thought maybe everybody else knows but you? 
Have you ... Wondered about the sacraments? About what some of the rituals of the Mass are all about? About where to start if you want to read the Bible? 
Answer these questions and more at POWER LUNCHES. 
WHEN: every Friday from 12:15 till:05 --come as often as you like. 
WHERE: Faculty Dining Room (2nd floor, South Dining Hall). 
WHO: You. Your friends. Anyone who wants to learn, or wants a "refresher" in the basics of the Catholic faith. 
LUNCH PROVIDED: But not by us --bring your tray upstairs or get a grab 'n go. 

0MPUS 

MINISlRY 
P.S. You'll fmd out fast --you're not the only one with questions. 

Michigan City  Fremont  
101 Lighthouse Place  Horizon Outlet Center  
601 Wabqsh St., (219) 874-9442  6245 North Old 27, (219) 833-6255  
Take I-80/90 west to Westville exit,  Take I-80/90 east to exit #144,  
go north on Hwy. 421 for 5 to 6 miles  follow the signs to SR 120,  
to 8th St., turn left and go 2 blocks.  corner of SR 120 and SR 127  

"!'hursday, September 28, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
ND aspirin research helps break new ground 
Special to the Observer 
Important cancer research performed nearly two decades ago in Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory recently resurfaced in the September 3 edition of the New England Journal of Medicine. In that issue, Har­vard University published a study stating that regular use of aspirin dramatically reduces the risks of colon and rectal cancers. 
Harvard's publishings were the fruit of a retrospective sur­vey that mapped out new theo­ries by studying past collections of data. Their conclusion is rooted in work completed here in the 1970s by a Lobund Labo­ratory group directed by Morris Pollard. 
The Heyniers Germfree Life Building was home to these ex­periments, located on the far side of Douglas Road. The facil­ity was established as a research institute of the 

Dosages ease attack Seferity 
By JAYJORDEN 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Not only does aspirin help prevent heart attacks, but it can also ease their severity and the long-term damage they cause, a new study found. 
Permanent damage from heart attacks was completely prevented in half the patients taking aspirin, and reduced by 50 percent in the other half, Dr. Pierre Theroux, one of the 
University in 1932; experi­menters primarily studied the effects of germ-free living on animals. In 1977, with the cer­tainty that germ-free life did not translate into cancer-free life, Pollard's Lobund'division began to focus on cancer research. 
study's authors. said Wednes­day. 
·The findings by cardiologists from Barcelona, Spain, and the Montreal Heart Institute in Quebec will be published in Monday's issue of Circulation, the journal of the Dallas-based American Heart Association. 
Theroux, professor of medi· cine. at ~ontr¢al University Medical· School, and cardiolo­gists with Hospital General Universitari Vall d'Hebron in Barcelona studied 539 patients admitted to the Spanish facility between October 1991 and March 1993. 

The patients, who all were admitted with heart attack or stroke symptoms, were asked if they had taken aspirin dur· ing the past week. The 214 who had were compared with the 325 wl,lohad not. 
The stu.dy did not re,cord how ·much ~spirin the patients had taken. Some of the patients had taken a small dose of aspirin dally. 
block prostiglandids. 
An earlier foreign study had "We performed eight or nine linked the presence of sub" separate experiments and each stances called prostiglandids to was able to prove conclusively the formation of intestinal can­that aspirins produced a ninety­cer. Lobund Laboratory was percent reduction in the cancer able to prove that non-steroidal rate," Pollard recalls. anti-inflammatories (aspirin­For humans living in the real like substances) were able to world with far more variables, 

Time gets out of 'gansta' rap 

By MAGGIE JACKSON Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Time Warner Inc. capitulated to growing public pressure and agreed Wednesday to get out of the gangsta rap business by selling its stake in the distribu­tor of some of rap's biggest stars. Time Warner's decision to sell its 50 percent interest back to Interscope Records fol­lows months of outcry over Time Warner's role in promot­ing a musical style known for its violent, sexually explicit lyrics. The decision comes less than a week after the company agreed to a merger with Turner Broadcasting System Inc., a move that will make the world's biggest entertainment company even more powerful and influential. Time Warner executives said the decision to dump the 5-year-old Los Ange­les-based company, whose artists include jailed rapper Tu­pac Shakur and alternative rockers Nine Inch Nails, was based on creative control and had nothing to do with the merger. "This decision is not about any particular kind of music," Michael Fuchs, chair-the Harvard study attributes a forty-percent colon and rectal cancer reduction to regular as­pirin use. 

"It's a great experience to see a project go from the laboratory to the doctor's office. It's very satisfying," admitted Pollard. 
In the eighteen years follow­ing the aspirin study, Lobund Laboratory has continued to function as a research institute for the University, concentrat­ing its efforts on the study of prostate cancer. Further focus on the genetics of cancer is planned for the near future. 
Lobund owes its direction and much of its recent credit to the steady influence of Pollard. Currently working in his thirty­fourth year with Notre Dame, he has enjoyed emeritus status since his compulsory retire­ment fourteen years ago. 
As to the success of his cur­rent prostate cancer studies, Pollard concludes, "Only time will tell." 
man and chief executive of Warner Music Group, said in a statement. Rather, "the nature of our agreement with Inter­scope precluded us from any meaningful involvement or dis­cussion regarding Interscope's music." 
Fuchs was apparently refer­ring to Time Warner's failed efforts last month to review new material for objectionable lyrics, a demand that lnterscope flatly refused. ''I'm not being judgmental about In­terscope's music," Fuchs said in a telephone news confer­ence. 
+"U. S. and Latin America: A Shared Continent" by Carlos Fuentes 
Saturday, September 30 • 7:30p.m. • O'Laughlin Auditorium 
+ Colloquium with Fuentes 

Saturday, September 30 • 3:00 p.m. • Stapleton· Lounge • Le Mans Hall 
+ Deadline for Multicultural Poster Contest  
Monday, October 2 • Office of Multicultural Affairs  
+ Workshop: "Roots of Latin American Music"  
Tuesday, October 3 • 3:00-4:15p.m. • Haggar Parlor  
+ Boston-based band SOL Y CANTO  
Tuesday, October 3 • 7:00p.m. • Little Theater  
+ A Night of International Music and Food  
Thursday, October 5 • 7:00p.m. • Haggar Parlor­ 
+ "A Tapestry ofMany Cultures" by Rosa Guerrero  
Announcement ofMulticultural Poster Winners Friday, October 6 • 7:00p.m. • Little Theater  -~±~­SAINT  
The week's events are sponsored by Saint Mary's College Office of Multiculiural Affairs  MARY'S  
and co-sponsored by the Office of the President, SAB, Moreau Gallery/Department of Art and the Notre Dame Office of Student Activities.  COLLEGE NOTRE DAME, IN  


THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ..............•.... : ....... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... }en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ...•..................... Krista Nannety Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .....................•............ Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either .ill,!tit;Ution. The news is reported i1S accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edicor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


Evolutional implications vs. cheeseburgers 
I
have before me a letter, addressed to The-Observer, which is highly critical of me. The author, Rick Ostrander of my own department, wonders whether my "frantic babbling" is really a result of ignorance, or just my "craving for responses to [my] column." (A little of both, Rick, just between you and me!) He ends .by. pointing out what trivial matters I usually attend to, and gathers that "when it comes to addressing issues that require informed thinking and care­ful definition of mic hearing. (Also, I didn't find out about it until the next day.) And appar­ently this Johnson, the law professor who made the speech, limited his attack to the ideological side of the evolution debate, in which materialist intellectuals read God out of the cosmos just because all the evidence points that way. 
Personally, I think this is pretty thin soup. If you're going to believe in the Christian God, you might as well accept what a ridiculous idea He is right off the 
bat, as Tertullian 

terms ....he is 
said. But the dis­apparently out of tinction between his element." evolutionary ideolo­
Indeed. gy and evolution remember when itself is easily lost.
Josh I was a boy, I Particularly by the used to sit on impressionable Rick Ostrander's young, and particu­
Ozersky
lap and pluck at larly by creationalist his beard as he types like Ostrander told me stories of and others in the 
T
the monkey trial. I am sorry to see this breach come between us. But what is this about my column being trivial? Ostrander says I "should either seek to understand that which [I] criticize or stick to pondering the cultural significance of cheeseburg­ers." Is that really all my column seems to be about? Ostrander also gives me credit for writing about "TV sitcoms and campus trivia," but I suspect these are thrown in ·to set me up for the cheese­burger crack. he fact is, I like to write about cheeseburgers and TV shows and so on, and I make no apologies to so-called intellectuals who find these things beneath notice. But the point is, what do they have to do with my evolution column? For those of you who came in late, I wrote a column last week casti­gating the university for inviting a law professor to give a lecture entitled "Darwinism on Trial." I didn't actually bother to go to it, since I assumed it to be creationism in disguise, and my whole point about such stuff is that it should never be dignified with an acade­
trans-departmental crypto-fundamentalist cadre he seems to belong to. 
T
In the very act of attacking me, Ostrander showed his slip by mentioning how stupid I am for not even bothering to "read much about evolution." Why? Because then "[I] would realize how problematic the whole issue of 'evi­dence' really is." hose quotation marks around "evi­dence" are my whole reason for attacking the Johnson lecture. He was brought here at the urging of a commit­ted fanatic on the GSU, who used the prophylactic respectability of Johnson's appointment at Berkeley and his two books to lobby the GSU Intellectual Ufe Committee into bringing him here--with a helping hand from Charlie Rice and a few others. 
If my great error was just in misre­porting Johnson's lecture, why am I such a boob? And why, if as I am told, his lecture was merely against a certain extra-scientific use of Darwinian evolu­tion. why is his book entitled Darwin on Trial? Why does a letter come to me from another professor, stating "if, in fact, Johnson gave his audience good reason to believe Darwinism to be either incoherent or atheist, the fact that he is a lawyer cannot weaken the reasons he gave."

A ctually, I think the fact that he is a .L-\.lawyer weakens his reasons quite a bit. Aside from the fact that lawyers are valued by society precisely for their abil­ity to misrepresent evidence and brain­wash those less devious than them­selves, there remains the fact that evolu­tion--the fact, not the ideology--is a sci­entific matter, and as such less vulnera­ble than most subjects to the tenden­tious criticisms of lay experts. If only I could believe that the religious conserv­atives whose self-righteous wrath I have raised really admitted this. 
How would Rick Ostrander feel if some book reviewer disputed his scholarship just because he was philosophically opposed to the tedious religious history topic he no doubt writes about? I'll tell you: he would be mad as a plucked por­cupine. He would write indignant let­ters to the Chronicle of Higher Education, demanding specific examples of counter-evidence, primary sources, and a retraction. If the book reviewer took refuge in snide put-downs and wooly generalities about problematic "evidence" he would try to hit him with the combined weight of all the historical opinion he could muster. 
Evolution is about as problematic for 
scientists as the existence of Benjamin 
Franklin is for historians. I may have 
missed the boat on the explicit content 
of Johnson's lecture, and for all I know 
he is as rational as Karl Popper. But the 
reason that he was brought, and what 
his fans took away from the lecture, is 
something I fmd objectionable. If what I 
wrote. about Johnson isn't strictly true-­
if he isn't the bible-thumping creational­
ist I made him out to be--that is hardly 
a blow to my basic problem. 

The intellectual and moral self-right­
eousness of religious conservatives 
notwithstanding, the whole western intellectual enterprise is based on cer­tain common agreements, a fragile con­sensus upon which all rational discourse is supported. Ifs already shot in English and half a dozen other fields in which Orwellian double-talk is now the norm; the Rush Limbaughs and Leonard Jeffries of the world have crippled it in our public discussions; and now science, which got the whole ball rolling. is under attack. 
T
Last year I got into a fight with ROTC by complaining about them wearing camouflage fatigues on campus. But glasses and how ties can he a camou­flage too. It's much·too easy, thanks to the compartmentalization of the acade­my, to live in the sixteenth century, and still enjoy a place in a modern universi­ty. he world is full of philosophy profes­sors who believe that black people have different skulls than white people, and Professors of philology with highly developed conspiracy theories about the Elders of Zion. Fine. Believe that stuff if you want to. Make a speech about it in the park, or at the Morris Civic Center. But keep out of the university-­that's a place where people are sup­posed to have a clue about what you are discussing. What it didn't mean, the last time I looked, was the right of lawyers and physicists and religious historians to debunk the modern world, and then get on their high horses when people object. 
Johnson may have only been dis­cussing Darwinism as an ideology, but by blurring the lines between faith and reason, the discussion of evolution and the discussion of evolution's religious implications, he and his boosters are muddying the water we, and our stu­dents, all drink from. 
If that's what "informed opinion and 

careful definition of terms" means, I'll 
take cheeseburgers. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. He can be reached by e-mail at: Joshua.A. Ozersky.l @nd. edu. 
•  000NESBURY  
IT'5AUBO­GUS, 5HeR/PFI 'j()/Yf£3 BON&­HeAl? fJ{J/?tfAIJ­O<ATIA/HO••.  !3UT YOU GOTKIPS OpT H/31?&! ANfJTHI5GUY5 U5T!NG 143 S&RJOU5 aJl}t3 V!OLATION5-' I  

GARRY TRUDEAU 
tfi&U,THAT!; NOT 7H& UIOR7T OFIT. H£3Af/3{) SAYS YaJll?IC/? 7081</BfJ HIM. 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
" A n example from the mon­
1-\.key: The higher it climbs, the more you see of its behind." 
-Saint Bonaventure 


VIEWPOINT

Thursday, September 28, I995 page II 
• Goo 'N LIFE 

Give thanks for God in life 
Wake up! Live! Enjoy life! Every event around Notre Dame (and all other 
Listen to those birds singing in the trees as the places, for that matter) can heighten a person's sun rises. Marvel as the squirrels beg for hand­awareness or, at least, make you think. Day to outs at your feet. day, seemingly "routine" occurrences may be 
Look at the majestic swans gliding across St. nothing special, but they happen for a reason! Mary's Lake. How many turtles can you count The reason is: God is alive, and He wants us on the island? to enjoy life, too! The Jewish toast "Vchaim" 
What is this -National Geographic Explorer? ("To life") proves this has been true throughout 
Oh, please. history, as do the writings of the prophets, the 
Do you realize how lucky Gospels and other Hebrew you are to be on this cam­and Christian Scriptures. pus? Not only because you Buddhist, Hindu and survived the stringent Muslim tenets reflect that admissions process, but what a person does here because of what Notre and now affects the next Dame means. Julie Ferraro life, so it'd better be good. 
Sure, it offers top-ranked Almost every day, chil­academic programs. dren can be seen on cam­Of course, the sports pus. We can learn how to (football) are a big draw. enjoy life from watching 
But, that's not all. 
Our Lady -surrounded as she is these days by scaffolding -still watches over the campus. What's more, she is a beacon lighting the way to God. You are lucky to be here because of the countless opportunities to find God which are spread before you. 
No matter what "religion" (if any) you claim, a simple walk across the campus will give you a sense of a "higher" presence. If you really are aware of what goes on around you, you can stand in awe of Stonehenge, or be flabbergasted by how many tiles make up the mosaic Touchdown Jesus. Why do the ducks and the Canadian geese come back to our lakes year after year? 

them and listening to their innocent chatter. We can remember how we felt the first time a duckling nibbled our finger, or we saw a chipmunk scurrying up a tree. All right, so we're "grown up". We can still, in our hearts, enjoy life and give thanks for it, in our own way. 
It all amounts to being aware of what is going on -not just running from class to class, build­ing to building. Take a moment (or more) to enjoy the creation -the life -that has been given to us. 
Julie Ferraro is the secretary of the Freimann Life Science Center . 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A generation cut off: Federal budget and educational funding 
T
Dear Editor: his is a busy time for you. But while you are choos­
B
.1. ing classes and making the decisions that will help you build a good life for yourself, the Congressional majority is working to make drastic cuts in education­in your student loans, in national service, and even in your scholarships. And the cuts will jeopardize the fllture' you ·and your generation are working toward. I want you to know that I oppose these cuts. I will do everything in my power to fight them and to see to it that the dream of higher education remains real for all Americans. I will do this not only by defending the opportunities of those of you who are already in col­lege, but by opening the doors further to make sure that even greater numbers of deserving Americans have the chance to stand where you stand today .. For the first time in a long time, leaders from both parties are resolved that we must balance the federal budget. From the day I took office, I've been commit­ted to this goal-to getting rid of the budget deficit that quadrupled our national debt in the 12 years before I came to Washington. So far, we have made great progress. In three years, we have cut the deficit nearly in half, from $290 billion to $160 billion. Now we are ready to eliminate the deficit entirely. On this, the Congressional majority and I see eye to eye. But just how we get rid of the deficit is another mat­ter. The majority in Congress wants to balance the budget in seven years, and do it while giving an unnec­essarily large tax cut. But in order to do these things, the Congressional majority would make enormous cuts in education. My balanced budget plan would take more years tl}an Congress' to eliminate the deficit, but that's a small price to pay to keep your scholarships, your stu­dent loans, and national service safe and well. It would also preserve our ability to protect the environ­ment and the integrity of Medicare for our older citi­zens. Balancing the budget is about more than numbers. It's about our values and our future. Education has always been the currency of the American Dream. When I was your age, it was assumed-based on our long history-that each generation would have a better life than the preceding one. More than anything else, a good education is the way to pass this vision on to those who come after us. The facts speak for themselves. Earnings for those with no post-secondary education have fallen substan­tially in the last 15 years. The only people for whom earnings have increased steadily are people exactly like you-those Americans with more education. Every year of higher education increases your earnings by six to 12 percent. Those years also mean a stronger over­all economy and richer lives for those who have them. alancing the budget will be good for our economy and your future if it's done right. But simply bal­ancing the budget won't do us much good in the long term if your generation does not have the education it needs to meet the challenges of the next century. .Just think over what the Congressional majority's 
plan, if it went 


the end of the 
Second World War.
through, would do 

~ In the late 1940s,
to you, your class­
when the veterans
mates, and any of 

~ 
we honored left
the one out of two 

PRESIDENT CLINTON'S 10-YEAR BUDGET  REPUBLICAN CUTS  
illEDUCATION  INCREASES EDUCATION, TRAINING  CUTS EDUCA TIDN AND  
AND TRAINING  AND AID TO STUDENTS BY $40 BILLION WHILE BALANCING THE BUDGET IN 10 YEARS.  TRAINING BY $36 BILLION INCLUDING $10 BILLION IN LOAN BENEFITS TO STUDENTS  
Poll Gronta­ • Increases maximum award to record  • Sets ma.<lmum award at $2,440  
Scholarships for  high of $2,620 reaching about 200,000  
Deserving Students  more students next year. • By 2002, raises the lop award to $3,126 reaching 800,000 more students.  • ~eligibility lor 360,000 students.  
Direct Lending Student Loan Reform  • Expands lending program which is already saving taxpayers S6.8 billion. • Lowers interest rates for students. • Allows for flexible repayment plans.  • Could~ program. • Could prevent all Interested schools from participating In program.  
Student loans: Helping Students and Families Pay for College  • Retains federal Interest aubsidies and six month grace period after graduation for loans to all eligible students.  • Coutd raise the costs of college loans by as much as $3,100 for undergraduates and as much as $9,400 lor graduate atudeniB.  
Notionol Service:  • Increases funding by by $349 million  • Eliminates 50,000 AmeriCorpa  
Americorps  next year. • Provides nearly 50,000 community service and college aid opportunities next year.  opportunities next year. • ~more than -4 million other service opportunities over 7 years.  

college students who receives federal aid. It would: 

INCREASING ACCESS TO HIGHER EDUCATION 
VS. LIMITING ACCESS TO HIGHER EDUCATION
•Raise the cost of 
student loans by $10 billion over seven years by charging you inter­est on your loan while you are in school. This would increase the cost of a college education by as much as $3,100 for under­graduates and $9,400 for graduate students. 
•Deny 
up to 360,000 low-income students desperately needed Pell Grants in 1996. 

•Shut 
down Americorps, our national service ini­tiative, which give thousands of young people the chance to earn and save 



OMB Mdy\11. oC!he P~ldent'l FY 1qq5 8u4&et lt.equt« ¥\ ll.cpoibt~~C~r~. Cuu lndudc:d llllbc
money for college 

HouJC tabornlllSIEducltlon ApproprlltiOI\1 Bill Paned on Au111fl ], 199S. Mil lht-Rcpubhun Bud1tt llc\Oluuoo 
or something easy
while serving their 
and wrong. 
country. 
their loved ones to go off and serve their country, they were the age most of you are now. 
When they came home, the country recognized their service and their potential, and it responded with the 
Y
G.l. Bill, which guaranteed a col­lege education to every returning vet­eran. Those who served weren't given a handout, and they didn't want one. They were given the opportunity they needed to take responsibility for their lives. our generation has its own bat­tles to wage. You face the choice of doing something right and difficult­
B
Y contrast, my balanced budget plan builds on the national con­sensus that we must help people help themselves, through the power of education. It eliminates both of our deficits: our budget deficit and our education deficit. My plan cuts wasteful spending by more than $1 trillion, but it also increases investments in educa­tion by $40 billion over the next seven years. 
Think over how my balanced budget plan would help guarantee your future and all the hard would you're about to put into it. It will: 
•Increase 
funding for Pell Grants by $3.4 billion. Almost one million more students would benefit from the scholarships. And we would raise the top award to $3,128 by the year 2002. 

•Expand 
Americorps to let even more young Americans serve their communities and go to college. 

•Protect 
our direct-lending program, which makes student loans more affordable, with more repayment options, and saves taxpayers, parents, and students billions of dollars. 


I recently returned from Pearl Harbor, where I took part in ceremonies marking the 50th anniversary of 

In taking on the responsibility of educating yourselves, you have chosen the right and difficult path. You did the work you had to do to get into college. You may be working now to pay your way. And your family may have worked long hours and made great sacrifices to help you get where you are today. 
You deserve your nation's support. And your future success will likely repay our common investment. I do not accept the arguments of those who condemn irre­sponsibility in young Americans and then seek to deny the nation's helping hand to the millions of you who are doing the right things. 
I hope you'll support my efforts to protect education and balance the budget. The fight for education is the fight for your future. In my life-and in the lives of countless Americans-education has meant the differ­ence between the impossible and the possible. It 
should be true in your lives, too.  With your help, we'll  
keep it that way.  
BILL CLINTON  
Pres idem of the United States  




ACCENT

page 12 Thursday, September 28, 1995 
• ALBUM REVIEW 


tp
-

the following answer: "Two bands which Greta are heavily influenced by." If the question asked is "Who are The Posies and Sunny Day Real Estate?," you've earned some quick and easy cash. 
However, there is more to this band than meets the ear. There is a wide array of other styles that Greta has incorporated into their new disc. Greta's love of these two relatively unknown bands from Seattle may make them heirs to the new breed of melodic power pop, but don't think for a minute that this 
L.A. quartet is embracing the "Seattle sound." All of the tracks on This is Greta! fea­ture lilting guitar work, wandering bass, and powerful, but not overpowering, drumming. 
Most importantly is the effect of Paul Plagens' uniquely melodic voice, which sharply contrasts the rowdy screams and lazy growls which have dominated the modern rock scene of late. Plagens' McCartney-meets-Daltrey-meets-Dando style of singing penetrates the thick, swirling tones of Greta's brooding soundscapes like a locomotive chugging through the nighttime fog. 
In the promotional package, it is revealed that the album was made following the deaths of two close friends of members of Greta. The sadness, resignation, and anger usually encountered after a great personal loss are quite evident on This is Greta! . The introspectively somber lyrics make for an interesting contrast to the ex­tremely joyful ear candy being played by this four-man unit. 
Heroin addiction is another theme engaged by Plagens, on the tracks "Warm Disease" and "Stained," both starkly contrasting stylistically, but each with the same message. "I used to like being me" is Plagens admission of how far he had sunk into his addiction, but the upbeat ending of the song indicates that he has returned to make beautiful music. 
The disc starts out with "About You," a tight ditty about love and confusion, basic themes in angst-rock, done here with precision. 
Next up is a brilliantly sarcastic attack on pop culture in "Some People," which features the line "human souls are different/peace and soul and greed," an obvious indictment of the state of music marketing today. Such attacks are more common­place today, but Greta pulls it off without looking too eager to denounce and sound­ing too lackadaisical to care. 
Several songs feature the themes of self-abasement and hatred, which are not new, but Greta is able to deliver the goods according to formula. "Cal Cool (You're so Whatever)" muses indifferently about a relationship, as if the end doesn't matter. 
"Anomaly" and "Charade" are so full of self-loathing that you wonder if J. Mascis By DOMINIC DEVITO hadn't written the lyrics (and music) himself. In fact, "Charade" sounds like it could Music Critic be a Without A Sound out-take played at 3/4-speed. 
"Rocking Chair," one of the weakest tracks on the disc, laments the fragmentedGreta remains of a love gone sour, but it sounds like a Skid Row song. "Nothing at All" is much more effective at painting a melancholy picture. With it's acoustic-to-el~ctricThis is Greta! buildup and dreamy solos, this last track is a 7-minute voyage through all emotions. The best track on the CD is by far "Silver Blue," an uplifting tune 'which 
Mercury Records 
basically describes silver-blue as a feeling. Plagens declares that he had been through mustard brown and black, but he has managed to get all of his colors back.. . . With Spandau Ballet-type singing and emphatic percussion, this song exhibits the!IJ· ·
***~ 
continued focus of Greta as they strive to survive and make excellent music in the

out of five 
face of tragedy. Here's to hoping they won't need to go through many more hard­
T
he title of Greta's second Mercury release, This is Greta!,appears to be a take ships to produce such wonderful sounds. on the infamous opening of "Jeopardy" the TV game show. If we take it that way, we could open up the round of trivial knowledge and obscure facts with Music reviews will be appearing every Thursday in Accent. 
GRIME AND GRACE 
ByTIMBAYNE 
Music Critic 

Warren Zevon 
Mutineer 


Giant Records 
**** 
out of five 

M
r. Bad Example is back, and he's looking fine in his $1.95 Wal-Mart shades and bad-boy stubble. Mutineer is a strange pot-pouri of songs which only Zevon could hold together: one part grime and one part grace, this album is up with the best Zevon has produced. 
One doesn't expect fantastic musicianship from Zevon, but one does expect strong songs and striking images and Mutineer delivers on both counts. The voice is no better than before, but at least it's no worse. (And besides, like Dylan, Zevon just wouldn't be the same if he could really sing.) 
One of the grimier numbers is the opening track, "Seminole Bingo," a rollicking yarn in which Zevon fancies himself a Junk Bond King on the run from the SEC. "Poisonous Lookalike" also finds Zevon on the defensive as he gives vent to the anguish of love betrayed. 
My favorite of the five-o'clock-shadow songs is "Rottweiler Blues," the refrain contains the following information of interest to the United States Postal Service: "If you come calling/He'll be mauling with intent to maim/Don't knock on my door/ If you don't know my Rottweiler's name." 
Zevon's sensitive new-age set "Something bad hap­pened to a clown," "Similar to Rain," "The Indifference of Heaven," and "Jesus was a Crossmaker" contains proof that he is not the big bad bully he'd like us to think. 
In each of these Zevon fuses lyrics and arrange­ments in a wonderful way: the saga of the unfortunat~ clown is set to the strains of kid-sized squeaks, groans and whistles; the indifference of heaven is mirrored in a musical minimalism. 
But what is "Something Bad Happened to a Clown" about? The loss of childhood innocence? The collapse of the modernist dream? That unfortunate episode in which Krusty lost his show? It's hard to say, but per­haps great art is necessarily open to multifarious in­terpretation. 
"Jesus was a Crossmaker," although not written by Zevon himself, is also open-ended like only the best songs are. As one would expect, Zevon is not making any credible confession here, but with all the song's opacity something of the power of faith in the Jesus who is a "bandit and a heartbreaker" shines through. (Aside: Why is it that when such scruffy fellows as Zevon and Tom Waits sing about Christological mat­ters, they seem to be closer to the heart of the matter than the vast majority of Contemporary Christian music?) 
With a name like Warren Zevon one doesn't have to try hard to stand out from the crowd. Mutineer is cer­tainly not another hit record that sounds just like every other hit record you've heard this year, and it ought to bring more attention to Zevon than he has otherwise received. 
If you're looking for something to file under "Z", and you don't want to get involved with men with very long beards, try the man with the $1.95 shades. 

far had to be Seam' Soo Young's soul­cpJnJlJination with melodic, repetiti()us b(tSS and tli ..~)tfe,et· wbieh iS (tW.te over­~fllll:lleiiJtllnig as Seam's ·pre~ Me. and the.four song 


M
orrissey, the heavyweight champion of mope rock, has at last recorded an album that is more "rock" than "mope." Southpaw Grammar, Morrissey's sev­enth solo release, opens the throttle with the first beat of the second song and doesn't slow down until the first beat of the last song. First and last­songs, however, break up the pace in spades. 
"The Teachers are Afraid of the Pilpils" and "Southpaw" differ in tempo from the other six selections, but they also differ in length. Both 




ACCENT 

Morrissey 
Southpaw Grammar 
Reprise Records 
out of five 
*** 

stretching over ten minutes apiece, they scream desperately for an edi­tor. "Teachers" opens up with a plod­ding rhythm and chords that never change and "Southpaw" features a guitar solo that goes on for six min­utes. It's a great solo, but you have to think three minutes would've been enough. 
Other than that, the songs are remarkable for their similarities. There are differences that will be apparent to ardent fans after 3 or 4 listens: the casual observer will have no time for this and wonder whether it's track 3 or track 6. They're all solid songs, but a little diversity now and then is what made Morrissey's other solo stu IT good. 
The "innovation" on the album is a heavy fuzztone on the guitar, eerily similar to REM's Monster and evoking the same slight stomach pain. It's nice in the respect that it covers up guitarist Alain Whyte's flaws, and it opens up the album. Heck, this album is almost fun. It's the first complete rock album Morrissey has done since his days with the Smiths, and it's sweet relief. 
The remainder of the fun comes from that least likely of sources, the Mozz himself. No moping here; he just tears savagely into his favorite targets-authority, beauty, conceit, or a mix of the three. 
For once Morrissey has released an album that is mostly free of excess. The trouble is the excess that's there happens to be obscene, and the mini­malist aspect is (A) repetitive and (B) not terribly original. His fans won't care because there's a picture of a long-dead boxer on the cover, and only the guitar sound has changed. Morrissey will win no converts with Southpaw Grammar, but at this point in his career, to quote his old band, "What difference does it make?" 
-by Kevin Dolan 
page 13 

4.lted Hot Chili Peppers "Warped" 
S. "Empire Records" Soundtrack 
6. 
Letters To Cleo-wholesale meats and 

7. 
;::pingDaisy·! aL.. elaslle Ore U 




cratke~, ~ 1 
8. Chris Isaak-Forever Blue 
-~1\ 
9. Filter~Sbortbus 
10. Big Su ...-500 
11. "Cfuefei" .:>UUIIILIU' 
F
rom the nasal 
organ riff swoosh 
of 1990's "The Only One 1 Know" to the nuclear aural attack on 1995's "Nine Acre Court," the first track on their new eponymous LP, The Charlatans UK 
have proven to have the most staying power of 
,.._ ~"~~---•-·tans •tv 
& aae '-'AIIrCI&-"ad '-I&". 
The Charlatans UK 

Beggars Banquet Records 
...4.....4.....4.....4.. 
~ ~ ~ ~ 

out of five 

the now legendary ._____________________________J grown up with them, and as 
Manchester scene. 
In spite of on-again, ofT-again mass hysteric fame (in England), drug problems, jail terms, and personnel changes, The Charlatans UK con­tains th~; fr,esbness of a debut when the band could have been around for twenty years. 
Although this album contains the vivacious sound of newcomers, it also features the confident and secure timing of a veteran unit. "I think we've finally got ourselves into that perfect state as a band, and we're ob­sessed with making the best music we possibly can," says Jon Brookes, the drummer. 
Mark Collins' guitar work is much more complicated these days and while Hob Collins is dealing with the problem of the incredible shrinking hammond organ, his keyboard touch­es are always a complement whenev­er they appear. 
One example of both of those traits is found on "Just When You're 
M 
the story goes, Kurt Cobain nvited Jawbreaker to open ror irvana on their final U.S. tour. Kurt always carne home to Frances Bean's baby-sitter cranking 1993's 24 Revenge Therapy. 
David Geffen soon signed Jawbreaker in hopes of finding the next big thing. Then punk became the hippest thing since parachute pants. Now, David Geffen waits, salivating, as Jawbreaker comes flying out of the major label gate. 
Thinkin' Things Over," where R. Collins' jangling piano work shines and M. Collins' guitar works perfectly with Martin Blunt's bass to provide an outstanding rhythm section for Tim Burgess' always outlandish vocal 
the~trif.~· 
Almost every all-male British pop band puts out a song that sounds like "Sympathy for the Devil" and this first single from the new release 
serves  that  purpose  for  The  
Charlatans UK.  
Blunt's  love  for  old  Motown  

melodies obviously had an effect on the song "See It Through." The roller coaster energy of the song provides the path on which Burgess places his vocals. 
A sludgy, deep, raucous, bluesy sound is adopted for the track "Toothache." Wah-wah blasts explode in the background as Burgess moans, ''I'm drivin' in the back seat of your love ... " 
So what's left now that the band that was once laughed at for wanting to be as big as New Order, got that 



Jaw-breaker 
Dear You 

Geffen Records 
out of five 
**** 

Dear You is the first contracted album of their million dollar deal, therefore, why not hire super-success Rob Cavallo (Green Day) to produce? Cavallo's influences are obvious throughout-guitars pushed way up front with hammering drums behind, as Jawbreaker does the major label punk-by-numbers thing. 
Let's see, first, we need a rocker for the airwaves: "Chemistry." Next we need the obligatory slow song, "Accident Prone." Finally, we need a catchy, melodic punk-pop number for all the high school girls, "Bad Scene, Everyone's Fault." Oh, and don't for­get the standard last-track acoustic guitar on "Unlisted Track." 
big, lost their fame, and now appear ready to regain it? 
"There were a lot of peo­ple who were 16 when we started and now they're 21 or 22-like they've grown up and I really, really love that," says Brookes. "Some 
of the greatest groups in the world's audiences have 
long as we keep the music together, there's nothing to say that ours won't as well." 
The Charlatans UK shows a band with the maturity to be making their greatest hits record, yet it is all new songs. Ironically enough, the last track is called "Thank You," a tune of appreciation to their fans. Undoubtedly, their fans would like to somehow express the same senti­ment. 


Yet Jawbreaker rises above the generic alterna-punk crowd with sub­tle differences that still prove the band's creativity. Blake Schwartzenbach's lyrics make Dear You intelligent, personal, and insightful. For example, he sings on "Fireman", "Dreamed I was a dream./! stole you away in your sleep./Saved you from a fire, a gun for hire, introduced you to a vam­pire." 
Other subtleties, such as the matching drum fill to the lyrics "Someone was blasting Zeppelin .... II knew every drum fill" in "Bad Scene, Everyone's Fault," and the amazing drum and cymbal work on "Stuttering." I found myself singing along to every chorus the day after hearing Dear You. It says a lot about a band when their worst work to date still blows the competition out of the water. 
Hear Jawbreaker regularly on your campus radio. WVFI 640 AM. Call 631-6400 to make a request. 
-by Brent DiCriscenzo 

3, Bush-Sixteen Stone 4, Freddy Jones Band-North Avenue 5, Silverchair-Frogstomp 
6. Michael Bolton-Greatest Hits 
~,; 

7. Alanis Morissette-~jgg.ed Little PiiiV 
8. Son Volt-Trace  ,  J  
9. Foo Fighters-Foo Figijrs  ·  
10. ~ive-Throwing Copper  
11. Rusted Root-When I Woke  
12. Hootie, & The \1... Rearvielv  

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thurday, September 28, 1995 
•NFL 





Bledsoe expected to miss start with shoulder injury 
By HOWARD ULMAN Atlanta. as Zolak's backup. Bledsoe quarter. He played most of the reporters in hot pursuit, team­Associated Press His agent, Leigh Steinberg. could serve as the emergency rest of the game. mates shouted, "There's said that Bledsoe had a third­quarterback if the other two get Parcells said Bledsoe's condi­Zolak," and "Zolak's here." 
FOXBORO, Mass. 
degree separation, the most hurt. tion has improved but wouldn't When Zolak was being inter­
Reporters flocked around the 
serious, but that there was a "It's weird. You just feel out say when his quarterback viewed, placekicker Matt Bahr 
Patriots' new starting quarter­
chance he might play a week of place" Bledsoe said, an ice might return. He did say it chimed in: "Is this going to 
back, Scott Zolak. From the 
later against Denver. pack resting on his ailing, non­wasn't a season-ending injury. affect his holding? That's what 
edge of the crowd, a smiling 
"Surgery is not recommended throwing shoulder. ''I'm nor­Bledsoe has struggled with I want to know." 
Drew Bledsoe piped up. 

in these cases," Steinberg said. mally the guy they're looking to the rest of the Patriots offense. And when running back Dave 
"Can I ask a question, 
"Hopefully, he'll have a produc­in practice. I'm heavily They are 1-2 and have been Meggett was told that Parcells 
please?" he said playfully be­
tive season and then take a look involved. Now I'm just a specta­outscored 62-23. Their only had mentioned that he might
fore rushing out of the locker 
at the shoulder again after the tor." touchdown was a short run in fill in at quarterback in a pinch,
room Wednesday. 

season." the final minute that gave them he said, "I don't know anything 
Bledsoe wasn't answering 
New England coach Bill Bledsoe, who has no touch­a 17-14 season-opening win about that.... If, God forbid, 
any questions about his left 
Parcells said that there was a down passes in three games, over Cleveland. Scott and Jay got hurt, I'm sure 
shoulder that was separated 
chance Bledsoe would suit up hasn't practiced since being In the locker room Parcells has some friends in the 
Sept. 17 at San Francisco and 
Sunday and that rookie Jay hurt when Ken Norton Jr. drove Wednesday, the Patriots were Atlanta area. He could call a 
almost certainly will keep him 
Barker probably would be him to the ground after he loose. timeout and call them in before 
out of Sunday's game at 
signed from the practice squad released a pass in the second As Zolak entered the room, me." 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I 
Guitarist and Singer looking for NeedTixlll NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM Desperate alumni needs tix to Ohio The Days of Our Lives drummer and bassist to put togeth­OSU, BC, Navy ATX1899. State. Call Tom at 708-848-7992. Correspondents are looking to
NOTICES er an Alternative Band call Tom 233·2289 expand their soap opera coverage. 
Call Ricky at 4·1248 Need 2 good tix for any of the dates Desparate Alumni needs tix to If you watch any soap every day WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN Help Wanted: 1 0/21, 10/28, 11/4. Boston College. Call Tom at 708-religiously (except Days) call Erin or 810W4TH MISH. Wanted: Servers, Asst. Cook, Need GAs for USC-money no (515)486-2517 848-7992. Christina, or heck, even Krista at MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 Dishwashers, and Cleaning person. object. 634-4220. You have to be willing to WED OPEN JAM 9 PM Call The North Village Landing for Brian x3692 Wanted two to four home game COLUMBUS NATIVE WANTS TO write at least 200 words a week on THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 your interview. 272-8180 tickets. Call or write. SEE HOME TOWN TEAM GET that soap. We're waiting ... 2BLKS S.OF 1 00 CTR Wanted: 4 tickets together -any 314-731-7604 KILLED BY NO. EMILY @ 273­255-0458 NEED 10 Seeking in home child care for an home game Gary Goehl 9840 Student Activities is accepting DUKE TUMATOE LIVE OCT. 5 adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk Wanted: 2 tickets ND-USC PO Box4152 applications for a Ballroom 
M-Th. 631-6561. Call 1-800-922-BEAR day Hazelwood MO 63042 Notre Dame alum coming home for Monitor and 24Hr. Lounge Monitor. Learn to fly airplanes, Instrument, 1-502-354-8826 collect in evening the USC game, tickets desperately Pick up applications at 315 Private Ground School begins Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home needed. Call818-792-2882 LaFortune. Deadline Monday, 
FOR RENT

October, Jack Arbanas 219-234-USCGATIX games. Call Tom at (312)280-Oct. 2. 6011 or 616-695-2807 NEEDED 2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or I would DIE 4 UW TIX! 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR 2718154 Greg at (708)253-7997 X4072 BED&BFST CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES Attention all Londomers Halloween LOVELY ROOM WITH PRIVATE 272-6306 I need 5 USC tix. Stud. or GA Need GA's to any game Need 2 BC GA'sl is fast approaching and we need to BATH. SLEEPS 2 -SMC & NO Please call Margaret x2286 $$ Call Katie X1093 Will trade 2 Navy GA's. have all R.S.V.P. and contribution PARENTS & FRIENDS. 272-5989 HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO Ryan x-1382 in by Sept. 30 Please contact 
232-2595 Need 1-2 tix to SC game. WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC Nicole Cook at 273-2780 or Emily NO @ WASHINGTON· 2 Obi Rms Mel x1286 GA/STDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR Mily at 273-9840 your promptness Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch for Roommate Problems? 2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990-I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM will greatly be appreciated 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise Affordable, clean furnished NEED USC TIX! 0890. LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR thanks!Ill!!! to/from game. No game tkts. $600. 1 bdrm apt. still available CALL FRED AT 4364 USC STUDENT TICKETS. Mike (206)575-0711. in student occupied 3 flat­Need UW tix: 273-9730 If you have USC tix, call Please Help Me! I! 
$270-heat & water inc. NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A. Tom atx3893 I need a ride to Boston and back 755 South Bend Ave Please call Anne 634-3445. NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$ from Boston for Fall Breakt Will payILOST&FOUNDI (1 block from NO Ave) deposit, CALL JAMIE 271-8662 $$$ for gas, and help drive. Please 
references 1-800-582-9320 NEED 2 BC TIXI ! I I ! ! I Sale give me a call if you can nelp ­Found: Student ticket booklet. Call Please give me a call, my dad will I NEED TEXAS, USC & OHIO ST USCSTUDTIX Thanks!! 4-2364, Una. Jenny S. at X4210. Sub lease available @ Turtle Cr. pay ($$$) for the tix. Kevin -1177 GA TIXS.CONFIDENTIAL 272-SOME MARRIED 
for Spring sem. Call Jeff 273.4546 6306 2718154 
....Need 2 B.C. GA's .... Drugie Okienko to kasa LOST: gold necklace with cross and 2 bedroomed apartment for rent. Call Kristin @ 2377 ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET 8USCGA'S wiec podjezdzajac do niego heart charm inscripted "Andy" on One mile from Notre Dame. FOR USC OHIO STATE WASH NEEDED przygotuj pieniadze. back. Please call 0930 if found! I Possibility of keeping animal includ­osu osu osu osu osu ga's personal use only 2n3097 2718154 (dla zmotoryzowanych) 
ing horse, covered arena. 631-5118 Who really wants to see Notre ZAPRASZAMYI 
or 277-5828 Dame stomp OSU? If that is you PLEASE HELP! NEED TICKETS FOR WASHING­FOUND: gold ring with features. In and you need 2 tix give Josh a call I need 3 Navy GA's TON GAME, CALL KRISTINA @ Tweedle-dumb! parking lot next to Infirmary at 277-4478. Call Betsy @ x3727 (503)220-8958. Please come with us! 
FOR SALE

between Stanford and St. Michaels Please! Laundry. Last week in August. Call HELP! Need USC tickets, will pay Remember DeeDee V.l x4205 to describe and claim. FOR SALE: 89 T-BIRD. 67000 lots,call Michelle,634-2497 NEED 1 BC ST or GA Love ya, Tweedle-dee. 
MILES. AFTER 5 CALL 234-0676 Will trade 1 USC ST or pay $$ NO ALUM NEEDS OHIO ST/ARMY Melissa x1255 
WANTED 

1@#$11"%."&%#@ @#$$% TIX CALL MIKE 212-574-1071 I NEED TICKETS FOR THE GAY/LESBIAN Student Support 
WASHINGTON GAME. Group will meet TONIGHT at 7:30 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT • If you like BASS, you'll like this Fall Break Plans? Sell me your stu­CALL CHRIS 4-4204 HELP! HELP! HELP! HELPI pm. Call the Q-Une at 287-6665 for Students Needed! Fishing Industry. dent converted to GA tickets. Katie location. University Faculty/Staff Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per 150 watt 15" X4088 I NEED USC AND BC TIX are welcome to come! month. Room and Board! SUBWOQFER as many as possible, rransportatior~l Male or Female. No 2 married STUD TIX BOOKLET 4 students or GAs Thank you St.Jude for prayers experience necessary. Call Call4-1668 sale. Buying OSU stud. tix $100 please answered. (206)545-4155 ext A55841 Call271-9549 call Brian @ 634-3322 please call NORM @ 232-2955 
#@ $%&"'((}"&"%#$#$ Band ready to play out looking for CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -**********PLEASE HELP!...********* $$ PLEASE HELP $$ Thanks for your Support! bass player. call Dan 3549 
...............................
Earn up to $2,000+/month on Going to Med. School? •NEED 1 NAVY GAl• '94 NO ALUM NEEDS 
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­Ward's Science Company *CALL COLLEEN AT X2191• BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX TO THE PEOPLE THAT APPLIED nies. World travel. Seasonal & full­Microscope CALL 516-326-2659 TO BE ACCENT MOVIE CRIT­time employment available. No Brand New, Top of the line I NEED 2 USC GA TIX Need Tickets For Army. ICSIII experience necessary. For more Very Powerful and Accurate Jason 4478 I have 2 Ohio St. GAs for sale. Call Jay at 4-1787. You will kill me, but all those apps 
information call 1-206-634-0468 Call Phillip, 273 -6540 Asking $500 for both or best offer! fell off my desk and were thrown 
ext. C55841 WILL TRADE 2 OSU TIX 4 2 USC Call Matt at X-3931 out. Brand New 25 Gal. Fishtank GAsX2855 PERSONAL Could you get them to me by early All Accesories included Need 6 NAVY GAs Chris x4010 Friday morning? 
I NEED A RIDE! Call Philip 273 -6540 NEED 4 WASH. TIX I@#$&"•!<>"'%#$ I am so sorry. 
going to Cleveland Sept 29? CALLX2855 ...TRADE-TRADE-TRADE-**••! AAA House Party!!! Krista. 631-4540 will help w/ $ & driving HAVE 2 OSU TICKETS WILL -All Are lnvited­Call Dan 4-1740 TICKETS CALIFORNIA GIRLS NEED TRADE FOR 2 USC GA. CALL "''"This Saturday""" StJoe: 
2 USC TICKETS 257-2020 OR 291-7649 930pm-2 am Help me sell110 Garrett I I need a ride to Iowa City Sept.29-NEED TO TRADE NAVY OR USC GA'S OR STUDENT Lafortune Ballroom JAT Going that way?Call Leah x3735 GA FOR BCGA CALLX2089 FOR SALE -1 OSU GA AAA House Party!!! 
CALL SARA 284-5127 ASK FOR PETE CALL ANN X2368 !@#).(%$*&"$%(• Flexible work sched.: about 1-HAPPY BIRTHDAY MIKEl 2hr/day Sat am. about 1 0·15/wk. I Need 3 tickets for ARMYI HAVE 2 OSU GAs 4 SALE WHY ARE YOU SO DUMB? I? (a CHIP off the old block) Need responsible, energetic, friend­TICKET-MART, INC. Call Mike at 3258. 4th row field seats Love Ya, ly person to help keep store WANTED leave mess. with best bid Looking for that special martial art? Heather, Jen, Amy, clean/prepare classrooms. Call GA'S FOR ANY/ALL NEED 4 USC GAs Katie 4015 X3252 Aikido could be the one you've Rosanna & Mary Beth Erica's HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. been searching for. It is gentle yet 233-3120 M W F 9-2 or Cathy 277-BUY•SELL •TRADE Need 2 USC GA's 2 OSU tix FOR SALE firm; soft yet powerful; athletic yet 9661. Outdoor help needed also. (219) 232-0058-24 HRS. Will Pay For Them Call John@ 219 2n-5073 not too demanding. And it will sure­23rd ANNUAL SMC-ND 
Call Rusty x-0993 ly sweep you off of your feet! Come SUMMER PROGRAMS IN NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME see our demo featuring Shihan LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 24) Seasonal & fLIII-tlme employment GAMES.272-6306 $$$$$ NEED TWO USC STDT usc usc usc usc Fumio Toyoda, 6th. degree black and ROME (JUNE 16-JULY 15). available at National Parks, Forests TIX. CALL JESSE 234-3952 $$$$ Four USC Tix needed belt. 5p, Friday, Sep 29, Rm TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT, FR, & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. stud. orGA 301 Rockne. Wear sweats if you GER, SWITZ, AND ITALY. bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. Please call Cheryl x4883 I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 Call Tom x3410 want to start training ($5)1 COURSES IN PHOTO, BIO, BUEC, N55841 usc usc usc usc HIST, ITALIAN AND SOC. 
NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud Need 1 USC Ticket Student or 0c0c0o0o0c0o0c0c0c0c0 MEETING-CARROLL HALL Do you need a baby sitter??? tic to sell X2620 GA. Call Anne x4896. 2 OSU TIX for SALE QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!ll (SMC) OCT 3, 7:00 PM. I am available every day x3254 THE COPY SHOP FACULTY, STUDENTS, PIZZA, from 8.00 am until 3.45 pm Need USC GA'S CA family needs 3 BC GAs. LaFortune Student Center ETC. INFQ-CALL PROF. A. call me: Martha 2n-3894 1 USC stud. needed Please! NIN NIN NIN NIN NIN NIN Phone 631-COPY BLACK, 284-4460 OR 272-3726 
Matt 288-3823 Call Clara x4826 ticket (Oct1) for sale call x21 08 0c0c0o0o0c0c0c0c0c0c0 
Thursday, September 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
All-Star Price dealt to Washington for draft pick 
By M.R. KROPKO 
Associated Press 
CLEVElAND 

Mark Price, a four-time All­Star point guard and the NBA's career leader in free throw ac­curacy, ·was· traded to the Washington Bullets on Wednesday in exchange for a first-round draft pick in 1996. 
The Bullets, which had the worst record in the Eastern Conference last season, had boen seeking a high-profile, ' ' 1eran point guard to run its tale .. :ed but young frontcourt, which includes rookie Rasheed Wallace, second-year player Juwan Howard and third-year pro Chris Webber. 
"With the addition of Mark Price. we ·reel as though we have accomplished that goal and have not had to part with any of our corps of young tal­ent," Bullets general manager John Nash said in a statement. 
Facing at least half a season without starting center Brad Daugherty and a need to add some youth to. an aging roster. 
FLOWERS DELIVERED 
~7 DAYS~ 
the Cavaliers felt they )lad to deal Price, general manager Wayne Embry said. 
"But we are not going to con­cede anything," Embry said. "We have a core of young play­ers now that we intend to build with." 
Price, 31, a 6-footer from Georgia Tech who was Dallas' No. 2 pick in the 1986 draft. was acquired by the Cavaliers later that same day in ex­change for a second-round pick in the 1989 draft. 
Embry, Cavaliers owner Gordon Gund and coach Mike Fratello praised Price as a "truly great player." 
"He's the kind if player I would pay to see," Fratello said. 
"That's because people can identify with him. You see him on the street in a T-shirt and jeans and he's a little guy like you and me. So you think you could play as good as he does -until you see what he does on the basketball court." 
One of the NBA's best perimeter shooters, Price is coming off a season in which he 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

Clocktower Square 51400 US 31 Norlh South Bend 
'<84111 
ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered 24 Hours a Day
CARDS ACCEPTED 

LeMoNade 
/04 

It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 
was hampered by injuries. He broke a bone in his right wrist Jan. 14; a supportive screw was inserted during a surgery Jan. 25 at the Cleveland Clinic. 
He missed 27 games because of that injury and another seven games for other minor injuries. 
The wrist injury prevented Price from competing during the All-Star break for a third consecutive 3-point shooting championship. 
The announcement that 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
RecSports-RecSports is of­fering campus Ultimate Fris­bee, Campus Co-Ree Inner-tube Water Polo and IH and Grad/Fac/Staff Racquetball Singles for both men and women. The entries "begin Sept. 20 and the deadline is Sept. 27 at 5:00 p.m. The cap­tain's meeting for Water Polo is 5:30 p.m. and Frisbee at 6:15 
p.m. on Sept. 28 in the Joyce Center Auditorium. Any ques­tions please call 1-6100. 
Horseback Trail Ride­RecSports will be sponsoring a trail ride on Sunday, October 1 & October 8. Transportation will be provided and you must register in advance at Rae­Sports. Participants must have ridden a horse at least once. The fee is $15.00. For more info. call1-1600 
Domer Runs-The runs will take place on Saturday, October 


Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when tt was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summer job? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that wtll challenge you every day and offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve 


Andersen Consulting will host a Career Day on Monday, October 2 from 10:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Casual attire is appropriate. All majors welcome. Come see how yours fits in with Andersen Consulting. 
• 

doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change dally, like the world 1n whtch we work. Our JOb is to help clients do what they do. Only better. 
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
Andersen Consulting IS an equal opportumty employer. 
ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
\IU Hl"IL\'\1>11!~1 ' & ( (). ~ ( 
Where we go from here. 

Daugherty, who had back surgery last year and was re­ported to be improving, would be out for at least the first half of the season was an additional blow, and was a factor in the decision to trade Price, Embry said. 
Embry said the Cavs aren't sure how they'll fill the center position. John "Hot Rod" Williams filled the role last sea­son but prefers to play power forward. 
Price was not at the news conference. But Embry said 
7 at 11:00 a.m. There will be a 3 and 6 mile run. Participants can register in advance at RecSports for $5.00 and on the day of the race for $6.00. For more info. call1-6100. 
Jazz Dance-RecSports will be offering a jazz dance class on Monday & Wednesday night from 6:30 -7:45. There will be an information meeting on Monday, October 9 at 6:30 in Rockne Rm. 219. The fee for the class will be $25.00 and registration will start October 10. 
In-Line Skating Clinic­RecSports will be offering a clinic on Monday. October 9 at 
5:15 in the South Parking lot of the Joyce Center. The fee is $5.00 and call 1-6100 for more info. 
Aikido Demonstration­The NO Aikido Club will be hosting a demonstration of this self-defense oriented martial art featuring Shihan Fumio Toyoda, 6th degree black belt. Aikido techniques include throwing, joint-locking, strik­ing, and pinning. Its unique­ness lies, however, in its appli­cation of the principles of har­mony in blending with the en­ergy of an attacker. Demo: 
5:00 p.m .. Friday, September 29th, Rm 301 Rockne. 
Women's Lacrosse -Fall practice is 4-6pm on Mondays and Wednesdays at Stepan Field. Call Allison at 239-7924, Erin at x2639, or Tara at x1392 with any questions. 
Price understood the Cavaliers' need to trade him and was calm about it after what Embry described as an initial shock. 
In 48 games last season, Price led Fratello's slowdown offense and averaged 15.8 points per game on 41.3 per­cent field goal accuracy. 
Price shot 40.7 percent from 3-point range and 91.4 percent from the free throw line. 
Oyer a career spanning nine seasons, Price has averaged 
16.4 points per game. 
Boxing Club -The Boxing Club will be having a mandato­ry meeting for all novice boxers on Wednesday, October 4th. The meeting will be held at 
4:30 in the Boxing Room locat­ed in the JACC. Enter gate 6. Questions? Call Mike at 232­1726. 
Aikido Demonstration -The ND Aikido Club will be hosting a demonstration of this self­defense oriented martial art featuring Shihan Fumio Toyoda, sixth degree black belt. Aikido techniques include throwing, joint-locking, strik­ing, and pinning. Its unique­ness lies, however, in its appli­cation of the principles of har­mony in blending with the energy of an attacker. Demo: 
5:00 p.m., Friday, September 29, Room 301 Rockne. 
WVFI Sports Talk -Sunday at 9:00 in Lafortune. Special guest: Randy Kinder. Hosted by: Matt Hoefling and Ken Macek. AM 640. 

Boxing Club -The Boxing Club will be having a mandato­ry meeting for all novice boxers on Wednesday, October 4th. The meeting will be held at 
4:30 in the Boxing Room locat­ed in the JACC. Enter Gate 6. Questions? Call Mike at 232­1726. 
Women's Lacrosse -Fall practice is 4-6 p.m. on Mondays and Wednesdays at Stepan Field. Cal Allison at 239-7924, Erin at 2639, or Tara at 1392 with any questions. 


EXHIBITION 
and INTRODUCTION CLASS 
featuring SHINAN FUMIO TOYODA 6rh Degree Black Belt. 
Sponsored ~ the 
NOTRE DAME AIKIDO CLUB 
~ 
'\k·.·· 
.l 
ll 
Friday, Sept. 29, 1995, 5:00p.m. 
at the University of Notre Dame's 
Rockne Gym, Room 301 
Fee for the 5:30-7:30 p.m. introductory class is $5.00. 
Call631--6128 
,--~~-_..~-----~---------~-------~-­1 
I I page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 1995 
I 
• COllEGE FOOTBAIJ.
I 
I 
I I Cooper questions Irish's Big Ten schedule 
I 
By RUSTY MILLER 
I 
Associated Press 
I 
i 
COLUMBUS, Ohio If John Cooper were Ohio 

I State's athletics director in ad­dition to being football coach, he wouldn't seek out the top teams in the country to fill out his schedule and he wouldn't leave campus. "I'd rather play three victo­ries at home," Cooper said Tuesday during his weekly news conference. 
The seventh-ranked Buckeyes get No. 15 Notre Dame before a capacity crowd of around 95,000 at Ohio Stadium Saturday, but must travel to South Bend, Ind., to play the Irish next year. Cooper said he isn't ever in favor of going on the road unless it's a Big Ten game. 
"If I was making a schedule, I would not play a non-confer­ence road game," Cooper said. "To me, it doesn't make any sense to go somewhere else ­to Boston College, Syracuse or three times to Pittsburgh -like we have since I've coached here." 
Cooper said the rigors of the Big Ten season should be enough. 
"With the addition of Penn State in this league, why play another top-five or top-10 team in the country?" he said. 
Cooper said Notre Dame, as an independent, competes with Big Ten schools off the field for recruits and on the field three or four times a year. 
"If I was the Big Ten people, I'd say (to Notre Dame), 'Hey, if you want to play us, come in the conference,"' Cooper said. "Why play them? They're on NBC television, they recruit from coast to coast, they get their pick of top players -at our expense." 
Ohio State is the third mem­ber of the Big Ten that Notre Dame (3-1) has played already this season, losing to Northwestern 17-15 and beat­ing Purdue 35-28. 
The Irish had opened the sea­son with four straight Big Ten opponents each of the previous four years. Notre Dame com­petes with Big Ten schools off the field for recruits, too. 
Cooper repeated his challenge to Notre Dame administrators: "If you want to play Big Ten teams, join the conference." 
Most of the Buckeye state is in a frenzy over Saturday's matchup -a pair of $25 tickets on the 40-yard line was going for $1,000 in Monday morn­ing's papers. It's the first meet­ing between the schools' foot­ball teams since 1936. 
Saturday's game marks another step in a grueling schedule for the Buckeyes. 
This year Ohio State (3-0) has already beaten two top-25 teams (Boston College and Washington) in addition to Pitt. After hosting the Irish, the Buckeyes open Big Ten play with games at sixth-ranked Penn State and at Wisconsin. They also must play three other teams receiving points in the Associated Press poll before they close the regular season at Michigan, currently ranked eighth. 
"People that subscribe to the theory you can't get your foot­ball team up more than three times a year -I mean, why play Notre Dame?" Cooper said. 
"Why play them when you've got Michigan, Penn State and Wisconsin and all the other tough teams in the league?" 
At the same time, Cooper was critical of Notre Dame players who he said had referred to the game with Ohio State as just another game. 
''I'm looking forward to the game. It is not just another game around here, regardless of what some might tell you," he said. 
"Some Notre Dame football players I think were quoted as saying it's just another game for them. I hope it's not another game for our players. It's not another game for me, I can tell you that right now." 


Courtesy of Ohio State Sports Information Quarterback Bobby Hoying will lead John Cooper's Buckeyes against the Irish on Saturday. · 
'A Rip-Rrunns, l:kutifully ~ 
Epic Advmturd" 
\\.1.,, \tK.~ (.'II' f\'h.·r....t ..... , 
Jtl!iSU:.\
L..,m 
NEESON LANGE 
-~­

SAINT Carroll Auditorium MARY'S 
COLLEGE
$2 Admission NOTRE DAME, IN 


Thursday, September 28, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 


'15 





POW~~ 
9./u[t:ic.u[turaf 'E~ecutive Council 
MULTl CULTURHL FHLL FESTIUHL 
CULTURE 
ON THE QUAD October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club Greek Club Filipino Club TroopND 
Fireside Chats 
October 2-6 "Women in the Rrts" Notre Dame Room, Lafortune 
12:15-1:1 s p.m. 
Monday: Professor Lyonga Tuesday: Professor Rlice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus Friday: Jill liodmillow 
TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
Entertainment by Saber Latino 
SPECIAL 
EDENTS 

October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00p.m. Eun-Sook Lee 
OctoberS Ball Room 7:00p.m. John Ole Tome 
----------~--~----~----------~---------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 28, 1995 
St. Ed's battles Fisher to avoid Interhall futility 
By TIM MCCONN 
Spons Writer 
As the famed Yogi Berra once said, "It's like deja vu all over again." 
When last-ranked St. Ed's steps onto the field this Sunday at 1:00, they will feel like they have been in the same situation sometime before. This is for good reason, because their op­ponent, Fisher, is 12th-ranked, just as Sorin was in their meet­ing with St. Ed's last Sunday, and the Steds are in the same position in this week's Power Poll. 
Both teams have an opportu­nity to climb out of the hole into which they have dug them­selves early in this young sea­son. Time is definitely starting to run out, and these teams know that they have to make a move now if they plan on being around come playoff time. 
Both teams are obviously struggling on offense. Although St. Ed's has been able to sustain some drives, neither team has been able to put up any points on the board so far this season. The key to this game, therefore, could rest on which team is able to revive its dormant offense, and get the pigskin in the endzone. 
A noticeable trend concering Fisher is their defense's vul­nerability to the big play. In Week 1, they held Zahm's of­fense relatively in check, but were burned by two big pass plays that resulted in touch­downs. 
Last week, Fisher gave up two 

touchdown passes of 40 yards 
or more to an Alumni offense 
that stays mainly on the 
ground. If St. Ed's offense can 
fmd a way to exploit this weak­
n..ess, and. ~eir. defense can con­
tinue making the big plays they 
had against Sorin, they can put themselves in position to win the game, and begin their long road to recovery. 

Carroll vs. Sorin 
Sunday, 2:00p.m. To specta­tors, it's just another part of another day. To No. 7 Carroll, however, it's redemption ·time. Last week, unable to live up to their No. 3 ranking, the Ver­mins were crushed by No.1 Zahm 34-0. This week, they'll be looking to rebound from their fall, by taking out their frustration on a No.11 ranked Sorin team that seems to be improving little-by-little each week. 
Despite the debacle against Zahm, Carroll players know that they are still a potent team that must be dealt with. If there are any questions about how they will respond this week, fullback Joe Schenner answered them. 
"I know we'll respond really well," he said. "We know there aren't too many teams like Zahm. So look for us to give St. Ed's a good game." 
Offensively, Carroll should have no problem getting back to Week 1 form. Quarterback Tim Nelson and tailback Jeff Kloska figure to join Schenner in regaining the offensive prowess they showed against St. Ed's. The Vermin defense also must rebound, and this may be a good opportunity to do so. 
Defense has been the back­
bone for this Sorin team. They 
have played three strong halves 
of tough defense, shutting out 
St. Ed's for two and Alumni for 
one. However, they had trouble 
against Alumni's smash-mouth 
running style in the second half 
of that game, allowing two 
rushing touchdowns. If they 
are not able to sustain two full 
halves of strong defense 
Sunday, Carroll could apply the same strategy and run right over the Screamin' Otters. 
Zahm vs. Alumni 
For the second week in a row, Zahm faces a top-ranked oppo­nent looking to take over its No.1 ranking. Last week, it was Carroll. Zahm disposed of them 34-0. This week, No. 4 Alumni stands in their way. Will the result be the same? Or will Alumni continue its climb in the polls, and show the rest of the world how to defeat the dread­ed "Red Swarm" defense? 
The Zahm offense showed against Carroll that the defense isn't the only part of the team that can produce. They proved that they can move the ball in a big way, and put the ball in the. endzone to finish off their dri­ves. Quarterback Chris Orr has found a Derrick Mayes-type receiver in freshman Mike Bailey, who seems to catch "touchdowns at will. Not to be 
outdone, tailback Dan Glennon 
has emerged as the cornerstone 
of the Zahm rushing attack. 
Defensively, there seem to be 
no question marks. This is the 
"Red Swarm" Defense, led by 
Jake Schaller, that has posted 
two shutouts, has created a 
plethora of turnovers, and sim­
ply hits hard. Their aggres­
siveness wins ball games and 
has yet to be conquered. 
The Dawgs of Alumni will 
look to change all of that. 
Their offense, anchored by 
tailback Matt Mammolenti, 
loves to grind it out on the 
ground. Look for them to take 
it right at Zahm and try to wear 
them down. Also, a new big­
play ability emerged against 
Fisher last week, when Alumni 
passed for two touchdowns of 
40 yards or more. 
t:Y 
Come Visit Scenic Columbus, Ohio 


The Observer/Brett Tadsen Zahm quarterback Chris Orr will attempt to fight off Alumni and pre­serve the No.1 ranking on Sunday. 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 
presen : 

THURSDAY 
:COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 

URAEUS VOTED MICHIANA # 1 REGGAE BAND 
• 
With Lady Melo-"D", Spinning your favorite Tootsie Rool, Bootie Call & Perculator Hip-Hop music. 

• 
Both Dance Floors Open Until Close. 

• 
Absolutely no one under 21 will be admitted after 

11 :00 p.m. and absolutely no one under 21 will be admitted without a college ID. Period. No exceptions. 

• 
Starting Oct. 2, every Mon, Tue, & Wed is TRASH CAN NIGHT at IAZZMAN's. Must be 21 or over. 


$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID · 
•Every one under 21 must state they are prior to entry. 
Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 pm 
"I'm Sorry I Have to Work All Weekend, Honey" 
The Life of Graduate Students and their Spouses and Partners 
A presentation on the stresses graduate students experience and the way this affects their partners and families. The presentation will focus on the typical ways graduate students and their partners deal with the guilt, tension, and resentment which often result from the demands of graduate study. It will also present some ways couples can successfully deal with these issues. An open 
discussion will follow the presentation. 
Presented by: 

Dominic 0. Vachon Ph.D. 
Staff Psychologist University Counseling Center 
4:00 to 5:30pm Sunday, October 1, 1995 University Village Community Center (222 East Cripe Street) 
N.D. vs. Ohio State 
Bus Trip 
Date: 30 September 1995 Tickets: $20 for ND, SMC, HC students at the LaFortune Info. Desk 
(NO GAME TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE) 
Details: Leave Stepan Center@ 7am, Depart for ND 45 min. after the game 

No Tickets? No Problem! The ND Alumni Association Will have 3 Big Screen TV's At The Fawcett Center On The OSU Campus. 
A Pizza Dinner will be provided afterward. Please call John and Sylvia Dillon at Campus Ministry if you plan to attend: 631-5242 
Childcare Provided 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry and the University Counseling Center 
~~~--~~--~.-------~----.---~~~--~~---.~~--~----~~-.-------------~----~-----------------------------------------------­
-
Stanford puts perfect record on the line against Flanner 
Thursday, September 28 1995 
Top teams square off 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
A battle of unbeaten teams. A contest between two of the favorites for the interhall title. 
This Is what spectators can expect Sunday afternoon when Lewis faces off against Pasquerilla West at Cartier Field. 
Lewis and P.W. have split their games the past two sea· filons, and both teams want to break the tie. So emotions will be running high during Sunday's mateh-up. 
"When Lewis and P.W. play, it is always nn emotional game," according to Lewis captain Debbie Droll. 
Lewis has been content with their attacking defense and consistency on offense. Droll bt~lleves the key to victory will be her squad's level of inten­sity. 
"We need to keep our inten­sity up the entire game," she said. 
P.W. goes into Sundny's game with a very young team, but leadership has not been a problem. 
"Our team spirit is just incredible this year," said Nicole Till. 
P.W. has won three straight games, but they still feel they can improve. 
P.H. vs. Knott 
Pasquerilla East will attempt to defeat their Mod Quad rival by continuing to pressure the opposing team's quarterback with their attacking defense. 
P. E. also hopes to throw fewer interceptions by improving their play calling in certain situations. 
Offensive players to watch are quarterback Kristin Langan and receiver Kristi KUtsch. The defense will be led by Jennifer Green at line­backer and Patti Sullivan at defensive tackle. 
"We're hoping to step it up and play a big game," com· mented Kelly Koski. 
Siegfried vs. Farley 
After losing their first two games of the season, Siegfried captain Kaylee I.enttno promises to take a much im­proved team on the field. 
"We are really excited for the game, and we have had a lot of time to prepare," said Lentino. "We learned a lot from our first two games, so we've been rebuilding." 
Lentino is particularly pleased with the defensive squad, led by Maria Freiburger and freshman Molly McDonnell. 
with the No. 2 ranked r------------------.. Campus Studs. The 3:00 meeting is an This contest rivals in intriguing match up magnitude of the ND vs. between two teams head-OSU game for the inter-ed in opposite directions: hall season. It is a match No. 5 Morrissey and No. up of two 1-0 teams who 9 Off-Campus. will battle for the No. 2 Morrissey is 1-1 and ranking, behind Zahm. has cracked the top 5 The Studs from after a 15-7 victory over 

Stanford will hope to Keenan. In the win, pull off another tough Morrissey proved how victory over another top potent their offense can five opponent. In last L----------------...J be. 
By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
"This is a huge game for us, and we are really looking for­ward to playing Stanford." Those were the words of Flan­ner senior captain Josh Quinn when asked about this Sun­day's one o'clock contest 

The Studs will need their of­fense to take advantage of their opportunities this Sunday as they will face a fired up and very solid defensive squad. 
"Our biggest concern offen­sively is establishing the run on their big line", noted Pullina. 
could have easily won. 
Meanwhile Grace is coming off a game in which they were dominated by the No. 2 ranked Stanford squad. They are look­ing to rebound, especially on offense, as they could only muster 29 yards last Sunday. 
Morrissey vs. Off 
week's win over Grace, the "D" in the Stanford defense stood for dominance as the Grace of­fense could only amount 29 yards on the day (and negative 13 in the first). 
Their defensive unit is lead by lineman Mark Rule, who sacked the Grace quarterback three times last week. The main concern for the Gamecocks will be that re­lentless Stanford defense. 
Quinn commented, "Our of­fensive line has to step up. Our quarterback Scott Lupo will have to be aware and very in­stinctive due to their blitzes and stunts, and I am really confident that he can do it." 
Stanford captain Chris Pullina express,ed his concern Game­cock's attack. 
"They have a great use play action very effictively wiarter­back," he said. "So our defen­sive backs, who had three picks last week, will have to stay on their toes and do the job again this week." 

(800) 355-9313 
(219) 273-2212 or could very well be 2-0. In their ways, and 0-C is looking to turn 
first contest time ran out on things around . 
.-------------------------------------them and they tied a game they 
The signal caller for the Stanford offense is Mike Brown. Behind him, there are Pullina and fullback John Mele. Also featured in the attack is wide-out Doug Pullina, who hauled in several big catches in their triumph over Grace. 
The team left standing from this contest will probably be the team to challenge Zahm for that No. 1 spot. So, it should be a good indcation of what will happen in the postseason, and it will indicate who will sit atop the Blue Division. 
Grace vs Dillon 

The Grace and Dillon matchup sees two teams meet­ing at the cross roads. The winner will jump into con­tention, and the loser will flounder to the back of the pack and out of contention. 
Grace is 1-1 and coming of a 6-0 defeat at the hands of Stanford, while Dillon is coming off a very impressive 13 point shut out of Off-Campus. Dillon 
That potent offense features last week's Player of the Week in all-purpose threat Mark Tate, who amassed 105 yards in offense (48 rushing and 57 recieving). 
In addition to Tate, Morrissey features the best quarterback­reciever combination on cam­pus (outside of course to that Powlus-Mayes combination you might have heard of.) In Sunday's contest, John Polk was a spectacular seven of eight for 135 yards and two touchdowns. His primary tar­get is Matt Rechner who caught five balls for a. mere 115 yards. 
Meanwhile down the road, Off-Campus, last year's champs, are looking for an­swers as they still see that big goose egg in their win column. 0-C looks to quarterback Jake Bump to pick up the pace and lead the team to that elusive tally in the "W" column. 
So there are some very inter­esting games in the Blue Divi­sion this week, as Flanner hopes to upset Grace, Dillon hopes to continue their winning 
\\ & Heaven & Earth ~e., ~ 143 Dixie Way So.(3l N) ~ ~ 2 Blocks North of Campus! 
~ 
s-
A. ~ 
'-'0~ ~ e~ ld p\n~\ 

We Deliver Worldwide! 

J{op to it • ' 


TONIGHT !!! 
Post-Graduate Volunteer & ~ Service FAIR 


CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
7:00 9:00p.m. 
Meet with representatives from over 50 organizations-­ACE, Channel, Holy Cross Assoc., Inner-City Teaching, Capuchin Ministries, Christian Appalachian Project, and many, many more --U. S. and International opportunities. 
-----------.....--.....-.-·-------------...... 
CIN AAT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
\!~ ( \ ,J It 
· -_.:_. I ou·n never guess the 
~-. f
surpnsc olt the heart o .•. 
"AN EXUBER:\NTI.Y fUNNY 

CII"DfRf.llA STORY!" 
"Two THuMns Ul'! 
fl\1h Jnd unprt'lll4:tJhk~· 
.l,{~H:.:HtiH 

~-..ENORMOU ~"lY 
FUNI"Y.1 
-...ew..:fl) 
li.. ~"'-.ll:thll~lh 

muRiel'sY4dcltng
she's not just gemng m.mied. she's gewog ~Mn, ~. II: -·""~.:.wr:::~... ~. ~ 
FRIDAY &SATURDAY 7:30 &9:45 

IIIIII_ 
TUES. 10/3 7:00 m 

----~--~-----------~------------------------------------­
Thursday, September 28, 1995 
The Observer· SPORTS

page 20 
-
Pangborn hopes to avoid letdown against Howard 
fense once again tonight. two tough losses and will beBy BRIAN REINTHALER An offensive player to watch trying to turn things around
Sports W rirer 
with an upset of Lyons tonight. is, according to Lustig, "incredi­Cavanaugh is another team that 
is tailback Nicole Torado, who 
lnterhall football is back in 
ble." Hopefully for Howard, is relying on its defense as aaction tonight with three excit­Torado will spark their attack key to success. Junior Kateing contests. At 7PM. No. 10 and create some breathing Loughlin (defensive line) hasHoward (1-0) faces off against 
been a strong leader on that

the top-ranked women of room for the defense. 
After an 18-0 thrashing of Ca­side of the ball. According toPangborn (2-0). At 8PM, No. 13 

Cavanaugh will be looking to vanaugh and a huge 7-6 defeat captain Katie McCoyd, the de­of the defending champion fense has performed well but
break into the win column 
has experienced fatigue due to

Lyons, the ladies of Pangborn nally, the 9PM nightcap will are trying to avoid over-confi­the amount of time they have spent on the field. 
against No. 3 Lyons (1-1). Fi­
feature a battle of undefeated dence. rivals as No.6 Walsh(2-0) plays 
When asked about a possible The team will look to the let down due to their initial suc­backfield combination of sopho­No. 8 Badin(l-0). 
cess, senior captain Trish more Carrie Gulick(tailback) Howard vs. Pangborn Sorenson (running back) was and freshman Amy Laboe(quar­
terback) to increase time of

quick to reject the possibility. 
Tonight Howard will try to "Everyone is shooting for us," possession and give the defense
bounce back from an opening­game shutout at the hands of 
said Sorenson. "And there are some time to rest. 
"We need to work on execut­

still plently of things we need toWalsh. Despite their lack of 
ing on offense," said McCoyd.

early-season scrimmage time, work on." 
Cavanaugh's only score thus

It is clear that Pangborn will not be looking past anyone, re­far was on the return of an in­the Howard defense was im­
pressive in the loss to Walsh, 
gardless of their record. The terception. The captain feelsyielding just one score. 
Howard's senior captain captain explained that the team that if the young offense can 
would be working hard on of­come together as a unit and ex­
Bridget Lustig (quarterback) 
fensive execution, as well as ec points in their first game, and hard at practice.
was specifically impressed by 
the performance of Joy trying to maintain their defen­Walsh vs. Badin in two contests so far, Walsh "This is one of our three 
The final game this evening has yet to surrender a point. biggest games," sated Maloney.
Fitzgerald. Last week, the se­sive toughness. 
"Our defense has been phe­will be the battle of the unbeat­Badin's sophomore captain "It's a big rivalry because theynior safety recorded an inter­
nomenal," Sorenson noted. ens. From all appearances, the Fran Maloney (nose guard) said (Walsh) are right next door,ception as well as a handful of Cavanaugh vs. Lyons games shape up as a defensive that the team is very excited and we barely beat them lastkey tackles. The team will be 
Cavanaugh is coming off of struggle. Badin allowed just six and has been working really year."
looking to her to lead the de-

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
THE NOTRE DAME FRESHMAN RETREAT 
Freshman year is usually a year of transition. People begin a new phase of their lives. Beginning this new phase can be difficult or exciting. Usually, it is both. 
The Notre Dame Freshman Retreat is designed for students who are experiencing this transition. 
The Notre Dame Freshman retreat is a two,day overnight retreat which gives freshmen the opportunity to come together to reflect on what they bring to Notre Dame and their hopes for their lives at Notre Dame and beyond. 
The retreat will focus on community. It will provide students with another opportunity to meet other freshmen who are adjusting to life at Notre Dame. It will present them with the opportunity. to listen .to others and talk about what life at Notre Dame has been like so far. 
The retreat will focus on Christ. The retreat will provide 
freshmen with the opportunity to explore the importance of 
their faith. They will be invited to focus on the aspects of their faith which they value the most. 
The retreat will focus on service. It will provide freshmen with the opportunity to explore some of the ways that their faith may contribute to the lives of others and how that faith may grow at Notre Dame. 
The first retreat will take place Friday, November 17 through 
Saturday, November 18. Freshmen from the following residence 
halls will be invited to apply for this first retreat: 
Carroll Cavanaugh Farley Fisher Flanner 
... Pangborn Siegfried Stanford 
If you are a freshman who is interested in participating in this retreat, you may get an application from your rector beginning this Sunday, October 1. 
If you are a freshman who lives in a hall other than the halls listed above, DON'T PANIC! You will be invited to apply for one of the upcoming Freshman Retreats. Eventually, freshmen from every hall will be invited to apply for this retreat. If you would like to find out when we will focus on your hall, please call the Campus Ministry Office at 631,7800. 
Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. 

TWENTY-SIXTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 

Sat. September 30  5:00p.m.  
Sun. October 1  10:00 a.m.  
11:45 a.m.  

Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 
Rev. John Lahey, C.S.C. 
Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  Amos 6: 1, 4,7  
2ND READING  1 Timothy 6: 11--16  
GosPEL  Luke 16: 19--31  


Thursday, September 28, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
.. 

The Best Way To Save Money On Stuff 
(Other Than Borrowing Your Roommate's). 
Roommates tend to get weird when you borrow their stuff. (They're funny 
like that.) Better to get yourself a MasterCard® card. ~hen 
you could use it to buy the things you really want. 
And with these College MasterValues® coupons, you'll save up to 40%. And until 
you get your own place, it's the smartest thing you can do. Roommates are weird 
enough as it 1s. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money.N. 
r------------------------------,--------------------------------------------------------------r------------------------------, : JCPenney T W E E D S : 
: Optical center SAVE s10 ON AR T C1..~Y.S D : JOIN AND SAVE $45 50% OFF ANY WOMEN'S APPAREL 
Simplicity, comfort and style ... that's Tweeds. SAVE UP TO $140 Join for only SIS, instead of the regular $60 annual 
EYEGLASS FRAME 
Save on all Tweeds clothing and accessories. Call membership. Then enjoy FREE lift tickets and savings Save 50"/o on absolutely every eyeglass frame plus... Your college ring, from ArtCarved, is a keepsake up to 50% on lift tickets, resort lodging and dining,
I-800-999-7997 and receive a FREE catalog with bonus discount of$20 on our best lenses. Sale 
our latest sryles. Place your order and save SI 0 on you'll always treasure. Save $35 on IOK gold, $70 etc., at top resorts East and West. A great gift for tncludes any eyeglass frame in stock when you pur­any purchase of$50 or more when you use your on 14K gold or $140 on 18K gold. Call skiers/snowboarders. Call I-800-800-2SKI (2754) to chase a comr,Iete pair of eyeglasses and use your MasterCard~ Card and mention the COLLEGE 1-800-952-7002 for more details. Mention join or for details and specials in your favorite areas MasterCard Card. Lens discount applies to our best MasterValuese offer #C3WA. offer #9501. and mention offer #ISMCSK.I. Plus look for us on the 
lenses. See optician for details. Coupon required. internet at URL http://www.skicard.com/skicard OtTer and coupon vWd 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer V2lid only on Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12131/95. Offer valid only Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12131/95. Offer valid only on purchases using -­purctwct u•ms: a MastcrC.ucte Cud. Surrender dOll.EGE: on purchases usmg a ~terCan:IC Card and whedOUEGE a Ma.nerCarde Card and when otTer #9501 IS 1"\1 1~,... Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12131/95 Olfcr valid onlydOll.EGE:
coupon at UmC' of purchase. Coupon lw no cash the COLLEGE MasterVa.lues• offer #C3WA 15 I menuoned Coupon may not be combmed w1th ,VLLL\JC. I on purchases USing a MasteremJII Card and when value, and nuy noc be combmed wnh any o.. • menaoned Offer voJd where prohibJtrd, uxed, . I any other coupon or discount. Sh1ppmg and (' I the #15MCSKIJs menaoned Detaili on o. • 
1 coupon. ducoum, V.Jue Roglu package or • ) or restncted Coupon may nm be combmed • ) I handling are extra Lnrut one discount per · · I skier discoun~ listed on 95/96 "Savong1 Gwde" • ) I
~Ilion ure plan. Lnnn one .coupon per purchm. 'A.t..:::-. ~=~ Wlth any other coupon or discount Shippmg and ·u...::-, ;:-\\16 I purchase Some restncnons apply Vood where c-\·.0 I oncluded w11h each membenhip Houn Mon-Fn A.~.-.::-•7L -~· I 
See opne~an for dcwb. Vo1d where proh1bJ1cd. '"IICQlEf'Va handling are cxtn limit one discount per purchase '"lc61ffVa I proh1bated '"ICI5lef"Va~;o I 9 am to 4 p m. Mtn ume Vmd where prohibited ,,.~ I 
L------------------------------J-------------------------------~-------------------------------L------------------------------J

TIMI WA.NI. : 
MOTOI'HOTO 
I

THE WALL STREET JOURNAL. v~uF~ 
50% OFF FILM PROCESSING49% 0 FF A SPECIAL GET ONE VIDEO FREE
SAVE $3 OFF A CD 
Hold on to the good times and your money, too.
12-WEEK SUBSCRIPTION WHEN YOU BUY THREE

Here's music to your ears ... save $3 on one regu­Take 50% off the regular price of processing and 
Invest in your future and stay on top ofcurrent Video values just for you! Enjoy a full selection of
larly priced Compact Disc at $6.99 or more when printing on the first set of prints at MotoPhoto,
developments with Tire Wall Street jqumal. For top-quality videos at discount prices. All videos
you use your MasterCard~ Card. Limit two $3 when you use your MasterCarde Card. Call 
a limited time only, use your MasterCarde Card are priced at $9.95 or less and are 100% satisfaction 
discounts per coupon, per purchase. Limit one $3 1-800-733-6686 for the location nearest you.
and pay just $23 for a 12-week subscription guaranteed. Act now and get one video FREE
discount per box set purchase. Offer Not Valid Limit 1. Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon.
to the nation's leading business publication. when you buy three and use your MasterCard~Without This Coupon. COUPON #336 To tak• advantage oftht"s specl·al offi•r, call Card. Call 1-800-551-0262 for your FREE cata­
~ ~ 1 d k r h COLLEGE M V 1 Cl Offer and coupon valid 8/15/95 co 12131/95. Cash redemption value 
Offer and coupon valid 8/15/9S to t21Jt/9S. Offer 1-80Q-348-3555 and please refer to source og an as tor t e aster a ues 1121¥ Offer valid only on purch..., using aMas<erCard• Card. Sunmder va.4d only on purctwn wmg .11 ~ccrCM~ Card. k 75NY offer #1081-5999. coupon at time of purchase. Liusit one coupon per purchase. Cannot Surrender coupon at rune ofpurch.ue. Coupon cii ey • cii•0 Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31195. OtTer valid only(&•0 be combined with any other otfen or discounts. ciie0
has no cash rcdempnon value. OO"er voad where -~ Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer valid on purchases using a MasterCard'~~ Card and when MotoPhoto Club Memben are entitled to Wee only on purchase• using a MasterCard• Card 0 .. the COLLEGE MasterValues11 offer #1081-5999 . . . 10% off' the coupon price. Offer valid on C-41 •· ..co::b,~·:;~o~~:th~~~~"or:~:: .. ·: ~,) and when source key 75NY U mentioned. · is mentioned. Offer nuy not be combined with · . process, 35 mm 6lm, and stancb.rd lize prints 
::Jo0~~C:~~,~~n. Coupon noc i\1asirVa~ ~~~ ;h~r~u~~tpb~~ed.discount per pc=non. ~\~ :~~d~~:ro~.r ~~i~~~~~~~· P?!i~~~ for U.S. i\1asirVa\~ ~~rd ~~::e~t:~ir:tcipating scores only. ~ 
• 

~----------~-----------,-------------------------------T---------~~~~~};~~;---------~---tiiE-SiillRiiililiifJiiiE;--, 
Box oF FIRE SAVE 20o"o forW"mdorm SAVE 15% ON YOUR NEXT 
OOWMBIA tl SA 4001 ON W DO S PURCHASE OF $75 OR MORE 
II Dovuoon ofSony Mullc Enoerumment.lnc Run mto Herman's and save. Take 20% off your VE /0 IN W Shoppmg is easy at America's prenuer specialty SAVE 25% . next purchase of regular priced merchandise when WORD PROCESSOR retailer ofgift, fitness, recreational, travel, apparel Save 25% off the regular pnce ~fthe Aerosn:uth you use your MasterCard" Card. Find everything WordExpress makes it easy to create great looking and more. Save IS% on a purchase of$75 o~ more 
collection, featunng all the ongmal Columbia you need at Herman's...We Are Sports~ Offer d T f h when you shop at any ofour 75 store locations or 
albums. BOX OF FIRE includes a previously-excludes certain merchandise· Coupon Required lrepofirts, term pafers, edssays an morel. lodp 0 t efi by mail order. Call1-800-344-4444 24 hours a 
d k b di fA · ti d · · me eature set, tast an easy to use. nc u es pro es-da da k fi d th •
1 5 1 7 
•

unreease • -rae. onus ~.co er~~.ra': esan" Offerandcouponvalid8!15/95toi2/JI/95.0ffervalidonlyonpur-sionall desi edResumeTem lates.Onl $29.95 y, ysawee ,to n estorenearestyouor
hard-to-find gems mcluding Subway , C1rcle Jerk chases using aMasrerCa..Je Card. Sunmder coupon ar time of purchase. Y gn C de J · for a FREE catalog. Coupon Required. Offer and couponand more! Order now and get 12 COs for $89.99. Offer excludesCrouWalk Plus, Catdio-G~de, all golfballs, selecr pro when you use your Master ar Card an mentton valid 8/15/95 to 12131/95. Offer valid only on purchases using a . : Call 1-800-322-34 I 2 and ask for the COLLEGE clubs, select Pnnce, Wolson. Head. Pro-Ken_nex and Ekrelon rackers. offer WXO-MC. To order, call 1-800-998-4555. MasrerCard• Card. There are, ~usired numb<:r ofuenu oo wluch ohu 
. sel~ct N1ke and Reebok Prestige product, Fila.. ~~va, Convene .LJ., Visit Us On The World Wide Web At offer does not apply. May not be combined Wlth Frequent Buyennl 1 1
M.asterValues• Offer. Offer valid 8/15/95 to 12/31/95. Offer Asics. 2001 and RoUerbbde footwear, Team DIVISIOn merchandiae, h //d l / . /h Program Price Matching Policy auction purchases, or other ducounb 1 
vilidonJy on purchucs UllnBJ M.uteJCucje Card 1'\11 r:r:_,.. hunangandfishinglicenses, equipment servicesdii) ttp: e ta.com nucrov om~ [Z'r orpro~ru. Noc:validonpurchaseofgiftcerti6eaces f'\lll:t:'r I
dnll 

.and when the COLLEGE. MasterValue~• offer dU\-I.LU['_ I home delivery and gift certificates. Offer may • Offer valid 8/15/95 ~o 12/31/95. Offer valid ."'-'-'-\lC..) or on previous purchases. The discount is app!iablc (1'-"-'-'-\lC.)
~~ menaoned. Offer m~y noc be combined I not be co~bined with any other discount , . only on purchases usmg a M.astc:rCa.rd• Card #.· • to, and the minimum purcluse based on CUITCnt • I
e) 1

wuh any olhc-r ducounc. Shlppm1 and hmdlm11 · • or promoaon. Limit one coupon per , an~ w.hen offer ~0-MC IS ~enaon~d.. merchandise prices only, and excluda WI:, .-. ' ! U.SO per purclwe. L1nut one diacount per ~ curchue. Coupon valid at any Hemun 1 i\1asirV3\ue) Shippmg and handlin\are addiuonal. Linut ~ shipping and won ahipping. Void where ~~
1 
1

_P~~·~~_a"!li:a~:...V~-~!"!.tu!~-_________ j_ ~c~ti~n:_S~C-#~5_: ~o~ ~h~r~p~o~~t~·-____________ _ ~~~S:o~n~p:r!:u.:.c_~· ~~d_w~e~ ~~hi~i~d.:_ _________ L _p~o~~'~·-_____ !~S_C9~E.:_I;_ ____________ .J
1 

0 1995 M•lltrC•rd /ntt,.,tio,.,/Incorpowtd 
·<, 

page 22 
Soccer 
continued from page 24 
amassed five goals and seven assists. 
In his sixth game, an over­time loss to Indiana, Lanza was forced to leave the game with an aggravated groin pull. 
By the team's next game against Boston College, Lanza was watching on crutches from the sidelines. He is expected to be out at least six weeks, and his loss for~;es the Irish to fmd anew offensive threat. 
Besides losing its top two for­wards, the Irish have also seen their replacements fall victim to injuries. 
Forward Scott Wells. who came on for Turner, is also dealing with a back injury and is yet to reach 100 percent, and forward Josh Landman, who
, 
was filling in for Wells and scored four goals in just five games, is now out for six to eight weeks with a stress frac­ture in his leg. 
Compound these devastating injuries up front with an ankle injury to talented freshman defender Matt Mahoney in the season opener, and you are left with a recipe for problems. 
The Irish, already hampered by inexperience, weren't count­ing on being dealt a second blow by injuries. 
. Despite these negatives; how­ever, positives still remain. 
"There are a lot of positives ut there," insists Berticelli. "We've been able to score goals against some top teams, and with each game our young guys are gaining experience. There is no substitute for experience." 
Now the Irish will have to see if there is a substitute for Bill Lanza. Perhaps midfielde:r Konstantin Koloskov is the an­swer. 
The fiery junior scored both of the team's goals in their 3-2 overtime loss to Boston College 
"Angus" (PG13) 2:15.5:00,7:20,9:35 
"Clockers" (R) 
2:30, 5:30, 8:30 
"Desperado"
1:30,4:15, 7:15,9:40 
"Apollo 13"

... 1:45, 4:45, 8:00 
•. 
THURSDAY NIGHT STUDY BREAK ALL SHOWS $4.00 ALL DAY WITH VALID STUDENT I.D. 
• 

Thursday, September 28,1995 

. ,_
Amencan Heart ~ Association~V 
Fogltlw>g,.._tf~
-·­
A Call to Arms: Check Blood Pressure. 
The Observer • SPORTS 

The Observer/Brett T adsen 
Sophomore midfielder Scott Wells will lead Notre Dame into tonight's matchup against Loyola Marymount. 
last Sunday and is second on the team behind Lanza with 11 points. 
"Konstantin has to step up and be a leader," said Berti­celli. "He was one of four ju­niors on the field against Boston College. All of them need to step up and take re­sponsibility." 
The loss of Lanza and Landman has left the Irish without a single senior on the field and created an atmo­sphere in which freshmen have had to step up their play. 
Freshmen Matt Johnson and 
Ben Bocklage, along with 
Mahoney when healthy, have 
risen to this challenge. 
Bocklage is tied for second on 
the team with four goals, and 
Johnson has started all seven 
games this season. 
"You can't say enough about what Ben Bocklage and Matt Johnson are doing for us as true freshmen," commented Berticelli. 
"They are being asked to do a lot more than they would normally be expected to, and they have answered that call well." 
They, along with the rest of this team, will be asked to con­tinue to answer that call tonight against a Loyola Mary­mount squad which, while 2-4 and 0-2 on the road, was able to hold No. 2 UCLA to just three goals last week. 
"I think they are really 
improved," said Berticelli of the 
Lions, who were a dismal 2-14­
2 last season. 
"They held UCLA to three 
goals and are coming off a win. 

We can't afford to take any game for granted right now." 
The Lions are paced by fresh­man forward Jonathan Tutrow, who has three goals and two assists on the season for a team high eight points. Junior for­ward Jorge Rodriguez and freshman defender Jason Gootee are right behind Tutrow with six points apiece. 
The Irish will be looking to halt their longest losing streak in five seasons, and at the same time, continue to gain ex­perience. 
"Hopefully this will provide 
us with some experience and 
make us a better team," mused 
Berticelli. "Adversity can be 
the basis for good things to 
come." 


NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
THE IJ\IIAGINARY INVALID 
' e I : e • 
TRANSLATED AND DIRECTED BY REV. DAVID GARRICK, C.S.C. 
WEDNESDAY, Ocr. 4 ... 8:00P.M. fRIDAY, Ocr. 6 ........... 8:00P.M. THURSDAY, OCT. 5 ...... 8:00P.M. SATURDAY, OCT. 7 ...... 8:00P.M. SuNDAY, Ocr. 8 ......... 2:30P.M. 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL • RESERVED SEATS S8 STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAfORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128 

Thursday, September 28, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 

DILBERT 
r------------------------,or-----------------------~
,.. 

CROSSWORD 
1 Aesop, e.g. 
32 Familial marker 9 Rogues 
34 Tenfold 15 Slowly fade 35 Shining example 16 McKinley's first 38 Renounces 
Vice President 
40 "You bet!" 11 Lute family 41 Los-member 
43 Cowboy's rope 18 AA affiliate 45 Blue material 19 Diminutive suffix 46 Corral 20 Born 47 Agamemnon's 
home21 Comparison test 

51 Does lawnwork

item 52 Hitchcock
22 Novelist Jaffe 
nail-biter, with 24 Object of a "The" literary hunt 
54 Physiognomy 26 Hoover and 
55 Qualmishness Roosevelt, e.g. 
57 Yellow-­28 Breaks 
59 View from the 30 -Magnon French Riviera 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

NN-B 0 E RIM 
A P S 
(}~HU AERIE ARIA 
SPIN GRANDCHILD HARD8A"L'L•wADDLE T 0 
A I C A 
s 8 
ow
0 s 

RE8E~HOOD.MLLE 
'j;'\:ji!;E G O~~·A L L 
~ry A A. 0 A E S E L C I D SADIRONS SPIKES A ADS C LIM 8­SEESAW.GLADNESS 
A • c H B I N E
s '"W"

TITOILEANS DREW SNOW LATE YEN 
DAVE KELLETT 
Now W1v.-r'~ ~~,...-'Svppon.'D 
1" ('()Uot<"? 
\ 
NO\ E\lERioNE em GET,._ 
FULL \50~\::.TRIC. WORKC>\JT JUS\ 8'1 '(f>..WNII'lG. 

HI­
SCOTT ADAMS 

LET'S PRACTICE 1"\AKING 
!. SO, AllCE\ THI5 CHAIR 

SMALL TAL\<... IT'LL 
~ 1-\1\VE.N'T IS 5PF\l~C,Y. 

COr"\£ IN 1-\1\NOY WI-IE.N 
~ WE St.EN DO '(OU 

WE f"\E.ET WIT\-1 
~.. TI-l AT OUTFIT THINK THE'(i\£ 

MARKETING. 
~ A LOT\' ALL SPRINGY? 


60 Woman pincher, 
maybe &1Jawbone 63 60's weather 
satellites 64 Distaste 65 American 
Dadaist 66 Suffuse 
DOWN 
1 Thighbones 2 Land of 
Arthurian legend 3 Tropical flavor 4Sturm --
Orang (turmoil) 5 Mr. Trotsky &British-­70logies 8 Perfect rating 9 "Jaws" terror 
10 Drink type 11 Strand 12 "... from 
Rangoon to --":Kipling 
33"-the 46--mater 53 More logical 

13 Senator who 
season ..." (brain cover) 
56 Actress Wardgave Golden 34 Genetic strands

Fleece awards 48 Its only neighbor 58· House ad abbr. 14 A.M. or F.M. 
35 Flits (about) is Senegal 
60 Overhead item,
--Duse, 
50 Unruffled 61 Triple-A handout
1859-1924

23 Quick to learn 52 "Heavens to 62 British verb
25 Munitions maker 37 Chinese 
--!" ending

27 Fermented 39 National park sauces 
near Mount Rushmore

29 Site of iniquity in Get answers to any three clues antiquity 42 Warranty 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
violator31 Mediterranean 

5656 (75¢ each minute).


YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Act less irritable when stressed out and your list of friends and satisfied customers will grow. A parent-child relationship gradually straightens itself out. Once the bottom line improves in business, your personal income will rise. Changes in the economy work to your advantage. Make the most of a lucky streak next spring. A change of environ­ment will enhance both your health and romance. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: movie star Marcello Mastroianni, legendary NFL pass receiver Steve Largent, actress Brigitte Bardo!, singer Ben E. King. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Narrow your options before attempt­ing to reach a final decision. Devel­oping a previously overlooked talent will boost your earnings. Keep others in mind when you make reservations. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Refuse to be rushed into making a premature decision. Take all the time you need without feeling guilty about it. Romance adds a special sense of excitement to everything you do now. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): New business developments keep your spirits high. A social occasion proves the importance of keeping up with new trends. A misunderstand­ing could arise if you try to second­guess someone. Hold your fire. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone may strike out angrily, threatening to issue an ultimatum. You decide that an individual who acts mysterious, holds more appeal. Travel or out-of-town visitors com­plicate an already busy week. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A pro­fessional friend offers sound advice. Financial indicators still look fair. Progress can be made in group meet­ings. If you must lend money, be 
ii(: '•< .••.•.. ··•·(.R' 

::i. OF.. INTEREST 
••sparking the Socfaf Conversation" is the featured discussion today from 12·1 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns' Lounge. It is an open invitation to discuss community as the foundation for justice in our own lives, against the background of the Campaign for Human Development-the Catholic Bishops' program against poverty.and injustice In the U.S. 
"Power Lunches" take place on Friday from 12:15­
1:15 p.m. in the upper dining room of South Dining Halt Bring your tray and join in the presentations and discussions on the basics of our Catholic Faith. 
>· ···-·::<>: 

.Fre~ Chappell, the poet and fiction writer, will direct an informed writing workshop beginning at 12:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. Both events are free and open to the public. 
Wrestling Club meets for the first time today at 6;45 
p.m. in the Wrestling Room of the JACC (1st floor aux­iltary gym across from RecSport.., Office). 
Boesman and Lena, a South African Film by Ross Jevenish, will be shown at 7 p.m.in the Anneberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. A $1 or more dona· tion is appreciated. Sponsored by the African Students' Association. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame North South Southern Fried Chicken Stir Fry Beef & Peppers Gyros Chicken Cacciatore Scalloped Potatoes Au Gratin Potatoes 
Saint Marv's Rotissere Chlcken Quarters SWiss Steak Jardinere 
RicePUai' 
sure you know your borrower well. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): An excellent day for both buying and selling. A business expansion or home improvement project gets the go-ahead provided it does not require a large cash outlay. Evening hours are ideal for socializing. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your attraction to someone may mystify those who thought they knew you well. Keep your involvement on a spiritual plane for now. Partner's cooperation is essential. Tonight, yield the spotlight to your loved ones. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Thoughtful discussions lay the groundwork for new financial and career gains. Put your inventive, resourceful mind to work. By seek­ing the advice of acknowledged experts you will get an accurate forecast of upcoming events. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Go ahead and let off steam. Discuss what is on your mind. Group activities could interfere with your private wishes. Handle your jealousy over a nirtation in a mature way. Keep your temper in check. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Differences at home or work will not create strife if each side shows tolerance for the other's views. Marriage is very much on your mind these days. A friend advises you to go slow. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Not a good day to stir up a contro­versy. Keep a low profile while devising a new strategy. Entering a competition gives you a chance to show your stuff. An influential acquaintance offers support. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Although constructive talks take place, you cannot expect a job situa­tion to turn into a bed of roses overnight. Financial details still need to be ironed out. Be firm with some­one whose work is substandard . 
.. 
• 
SPORTS 

page 24 Thursday, September 28, 1995 
Doughty listed as doubtful for Saturday's game 

By THOMAS SCHLIDT football there. It's Big Ten, and age and two good teams. And Assistant Sports Editor they're in the top 25 every when you have two good teams year." play, you'll have a great game." In the 1970's and early 80's, With the Buckeye program's While Ohio State wasn't high Ohio was a prominent recruit-success and the strong state on Sollmann's list, he did re­ing base for the Irish. Twenty-loyalty, football has become a ceive some attention from them six natives of the Buckeye state way of life for many people. to play football. The lure of played on the 1973 National Thus, when the opportunity Notre Dame's baseball program Championship team for Ara .--------------------,brought him here instead. 
~Ei£~:~:~~ if~~~::! 
But since the arrival of head coach Lou Holtz, the Irish recruiting effort has gone more national. Only nine Ohio natives played on 

• the 1988 national champi­onship squad, and today only four players represent Ohio for the Irish, juniors Marc Edwards and Scott Sollmann and freshmen Antwon Jones and Mario Strayhorn. 
Playing in the Big Ten, Ohio State doesn't have the 

INSH 
:=.'}o:::;;,bragging r4lhts 


''I'm from Cincinnati and grew up watching Ohio State on TV. I know that if I don't beat these guys, I'll hear a lot of stuff from Cincinnati." 
Injury update: Both 
Charlie Stafford and Leon Wallace, hobbled with knee and ankle injuries respective­ly, may be available for this week's game Holtz said after Wednesday's practice. Neither will start. 
luxury of continuous national '------------------' Freshman offensive line-exposure that Notre Dame has. arose to play their next door man Mike Rosenthal practiced Thus the Buckeyes rely heavily neighbor Notre Dame, of with the first team Wednesday. on home grown talent and course, they got excited. Regular starter Mike Doughty home state pride to bring them injured his ankle against Texas to Columbus. "You have Notre Dame's tra-last Saturday. According to dition and Ohio State's tradi-Holtz, Doughty's availability is "If you go to Ohio State peo­tion," Sollmann said. "This limited and Rosenthal may
ple know," Sollmann explained. 

game has got a lot of tradition, start for the Irish against Ohio "You get respect for playing 
a lot of fans, a lot of TV cover-State . 
• MEN'S SOCCER • SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 
Irish try to end skid tonight Belles battle Lake 
By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
Forest to 0-0 tie 
Sometimes, the ball just By ALLISON MEAGHER a challenge of skill," said junior doesn't bounce your way. Sports Writer forward Lisa Nichols. "TheyWhether literally or figuratively 
were much taller than us as 
speaking, bad bounces can cost 
After 120 minutes of intense well as more aggressive. I was a team dearly. Just ask the play, all that the Saint Mary's 
punched in the stomach twiceNotre Dame men's soccer team. 

soccer team could come up 
by a Lake Forest player and toWhile bad bounces in a literal with was a 0-0 score against top it all off, the refs didn't give sense may have had a hand in 
Lake Forest. Although the 
us a call."

the Irish's current four game Belles went scoreless, the team The Belles are currently
losing streak, the team's most pressing problem has been a dominated the entire game. working to adjust to a new plan more figurative bad bounce, Freshman goal keeper of attack. Instead of a 4-4-2 set Joanne Wagner had a slow
namely a rash of injuries to key up (four backs, four mids and players. game, with only around three two forwards), they are using a · The team which will take the seconds of excitement from 4-2-4, which supplies the field tonight against 2-4 Loyola Lake Forest's one or two chal­
offense two more players at the 
Marymount bears little resem­lenging shots on goal. Lake 
forward position. In the next blance to the team which the Forest's goal keeper, however, few practices, the Belles will
Irish had planned to field this got a workout while trying to also work on their goal shots. 
year, and injuries are to blame. 
survive heat from the Belle's "We're working on shooting"You just have to go on, avoid 
offense. Saint Mary's made primarily in practice," said
feeling sorry for yourselves," several attempts at their goal Nichols. "Solomon keepssaid head coach Mike Berticelli throughout the duration of the 
when asked about the injuries telling us to look up before we thirty minutes of overtime, but shoot. Also, we are running a
which have plagued the Irish they just could not seem to get
squad. "You have to fmd a way new strategy where two of the to turn a negative into a posi­the ball in the goal. halfbacks stay up with the for­tive." "We played great defense on 
wards." Tuesday," senior defender While positives remain in the Sandra Gass said. "I felt that 
Therefore, Coach Solomon 
Irish's picture, it is hard not to we were playing together as a Scholz has been directing hisbe struck by the negatives. 
defensive team. What we need practices towards the offense.
It all started with the loss of to continue to improve is our Nichols hopes that through ad­
sophomore forward Ryan 
offense." 

justing to these changes, theTurner, the team's second best ing threat. Playing in parts of One of Lake Forest's advan­
• scoring threat. A back injury While Turner's loss indeed the team's first six games after tages was their height differ­team will finally be able to 
score more goals.

forced Turner to sit out the left a void, at least the team missing all of last season, Lanza ence. 

entire 1995 season, leaving a could count on the return of Bill gaping hole up front. 
Lanza, its most dangerous scor-


Football 
(' 

vs. Ohio State September 30, 2:30 EST 
Volleyball 
vs. Georgetwon September 30, 3:00 p.m. 

,.. 
vs. Villanova October 1, 2:00p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Loyola Marymount September 28, 7:30p.m. 

"We should have won against
"Lake Forest was more of a 
Lake Forest," said senior de­
see SOCCER/ page 22 

physical challenge rather than fender Tina Brockman. 
Women's Soccer • Interhall Football Previews 

Q)at Cincinnati September 29, 7:00 p.m. 
at Ohio State October 1, 2:00p.m. see page 18-19 
Cross Country ..... •Price dealt to Bullets 

-= 
Notre Dame Invitational 

riJ
October 6, T.B.A. see page 15 
SMC Sports Vollelyball vs. Chicago, September 28 

•Cooper criticizes Irish schedule 
7:00p.m. 

~ 
see page 16 






