
Wednesday, October 4, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 33 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Dowty: Pact . shows potential 
By JAMIE HEISLER Assistant News Editor 
The Israeli-Palestinian Peace Accord still faces many chal­lenges in its implementation, but it is a step in the right direction, according to Government Professor Alan Dowty. 
.The accord, formally named the Israeli-Palestinian Interim Agreement on the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. was signed Thursday at the White House in a historic move towards peace in the Middle East. As the sec­ond step in a three step process that began two years ago, the signing of the accord has signi­fied a drastic change in what both sides have been willing to 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Accord faces challenges 
Rebels announce vote 
· 


against agreement 
By KARIN LAUB Associated Press 
Parliament approval ofthe. lsrMl~fi.O accord em We~t BS:rik autonomy was thrown ln,to 
que~tion t()d(l:y yvhen, tyvo rebe)~ from the government Labor. party srudtbt)Y would ~Pte . 
it. . .·...•. ·····•·..·. . ·. : 'II> ···••···.•··••·•.• · 
However, a third lawmaker -yv~o haf ~xpressed re~~J.y said he would support the agreement w~eriltis pre~~nted, t1;r the Knesset on Thursday. His ·:;y te W?uld assur~ th ernment a 61-59 majority uples reportedly are wavering vote ag .. . . . c~ord,< 
The pact was signed by< Prime MmlsterYitzhak, PLO leader YasserArafatinW:asbingtonJa~tweek,··: 
Labor Party leaders have ~aid ~hatjf ~he the parliament vote, it t~(}hnleally cot,tid·implem.enttlie agt~e:·.·. ment, but wonld have troqble doing so b(ilcause.()fa perc~lyed lack of political legitimacy; · 

Get ready for midterms! 


compromise. to give up what it once consi -major provisions, as well as 
"If you look at the agreement ered vital. Both have become hundreds of minor details deal­A student diligently studies outside, trying to enjoy the remaining as a whole, it is a perfect ex­much more realistic about what ing with the sharing of power. few days of sunshine and warm weather at Notre Dame. pression of negotiating from the they can achieve, which is what The most significant provision parties on both sides," said is different from any previous of the accord calls for the Dowty. "It doesn't totally satis­situation." 


SMC security worker 

fy either side, and each has had The agreement sets forth five see ACCORD I page 6 
• HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL 


illustrates dedication 
By JESSICA ZIGMOND "I just can't sit still," explains 
News Wrirer Gatskill. a father of four. a 

grandfather of eight and a By DEBORAH SCHULTZ dences to match funds, dorms "We insist that the items pur-After over 40 years of service great grandfather of three. NowsWriror will pay one third of the pur-chased must be for the social in public transportation, secu-Along with his wife Betty. 
chase price and then Student space of the dorms. so that they rity dispatcher and escort Es-Catskill is making the most of 
The Office of Student Resi-Residences will pay the remain-can carry on from year to ton Catskill is not ready to re-his retirement years. dences will be matching funds ing two thirds, as long as it year," Cannon said. "Some tire. The work as an escort and for dorms that are interested in does not exceed $1000, accord-dorms in the past have bought Catskill, a 71 year old Gran-dispatcher at security is not buying items to improve their ing to Cannon. t-shirts, but we will not match ger native, has been a part-new to Catskill, who spent 41 social space, according to The money to be matched funds for such things, because time employee for Saint Mary's years working as a bus driver Director of Student Residences should come from the dorm's that does not improve the social Security for the past six years, for three major Indiana public Kevin Cannon, who spoke at treasury, and the purchases space." Items bought in the where he has helped substitute transportation companies. In the Hall Presidents' Council must be approved by both the past include televisions or for security dispatchers and 1948, Catskill began his work meeting yesterday. rector of the dorm and Student escorts who are unable to as a bus driver with the Elkhart 
In order for Student Hesi-Residences. HPC 1 work. G TSKILL 1 
Dorms receive m.atched funds 
see page 6 see A page 6 



Simpson acquitted of murder charges 
sheriffs department and released "forthwith." deliberations, said, "I think I have to believe it. It's "I feel awful. I just feel awful," a sobbing Kathleen happening. Nothing shocks me anymore."Emotions vary as jury Bell, who testified about Detective Mark Fuhrman's Ito suggested jurors use their time before the ver­racist comments, said in a television interview. "I think diet's announcement to pack and bid farewell to nearly announces 'swift' verdict this is very hard to take. I think to hear the Goldman nine months of sequestration. family cry was very difficult."' "Ladies and gentlemen, have your last pleasant Outside the courthouse a throng of spectators erupt-evening," he told them. 
By MICHAEL FLEEMAN ed in cheers. Jurors spent about an hour of their brief delibera-Associated Press 
The curious and an army of media began arriving tions listening to a court reporter read back testimony early today, while police went on tactical alert to brace from a limousine driver who gave Simpson a ride toLOS ANGELES for possible trouble in the streets. the airport on the night Simpson's ex-wife and her . O.J. Simpson was acquitted today of murdering his News helicopters roared outside. Barricades blocked friend were slain.
ex-wife and her friend, a suspense-filled climax to the the street. In the courthouse lobby, hundreds of people The jurors heard only testimony that prosecutorscourtroom saga that obsessed the nation. With two vied for the few precious public seats in the courtroom. suggested they review: Allan Park's descriptions ofwords, "not guilty," the jury freed the fallen sports leg­As their lottery numbers were pulled, the lucky few phone calls he made to his boss and mother and hisend to try to rebuild a life thrown into disgrace. 
cheered. efforts to summon a response from Simpson by ringing
Simpson looked toward the jury and mouthed, 
They came to take their place in history, to experi-a bell at the gate to his Rockingham Avenue estate. 
"Thank you," after the panel was dismissed. He turned ence the verdict of the century. The verdict capped a legal journey as surreal-andto his family and punched a fist into the air. He then It came Monday without warning. As the judge at times as slow-as Simpson's bizarre Bronco flighthugged his lead defense attorney, Johnnie Cochran Jr., 
brought in the jury, two-thirds of the hottest seats in from justice. 
and his friend and attorney Hobert Kardashian. 
town were empty, two of the leading attorneys in the As the case moved onto one side street after another, In the audience. the sister of victim Honald Goldman case weren't even present, and most of the media -it often seemed irrelevant that two young people werebroke out in sobs. Her father sat back in his seat in not expecting such a swift verdict -were upstairs in slashed to death one June night in Brentwood moredisbelief, then embraced his daughter. 
the press room. than a year ago. 
Simpson's relatives smiled and wiped away tears. His "Is that correct?" Ito asked the forewoman, a black The case wasn't just about murder. It was aboutson Jason sat in his seat, his face in his hands, shaking woman in her early 50s who was chosen by her col-fame and wealth, love and hate, fragile egos and mis-and sobbing. Prosecutor Marcia Clark and Christopher leagues last week after just three minutes. directed power. It was about the judicial system, theDarden sat stone-faced. 
"Yes," she said. media, domestic violence, racism. sexism and crass op-The judge thanked the jury and cautioned panelists 
Jaws dropped. There were gasps in the courtroom. portunism.
that reporters would seek them out. Jurors said they Simpson appeared stunned, as did his attorney. Carl It was Greek tragedy. afternoon soap opera and cir­didn't want to talk to attorneys or the media. 
Douglas, a second-stringer on the legal team assigned cus sideshow, all televised live and nationwide. It hadThe jury of nine blacks, two whites and a Hispanic the mundane task of sitting next to Simpson during heroes, villains and freaks. plot twists, suspense andcleared Simpson of the June 12, 1994, murders of his 
testimony readbacks. anticlimaxes.
ex-wife Nicole Brown Simpson, 35, and her 25-year­"Surprise doesn't begin to describe my feelings," America couldn't get enough if it. 
old friend. Had he been convicted, Simpson had faced Douglas said afterward. The star, of course. was Ort!nthal James Simpson,life in prison without possible parole. 
Darden was there, but Clark wasn't. 
Instead, Judge Lance Ito ordered him taken to the 
Darden, asked if he could believe the rapid end to 
see SIMPSON./ page 6 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, October 4, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
U.S. disgraces itself over O.J. 
A disgrace. That's all the trial of 

O.J. Simpson was. And not because of the ver­dict. 
The jury's decision in this case became ir­


relevant moments after David Tyler the lawyers first set foot News Editor in the courtrooms. What -------­followed that event was a despicable display that for some unknown reasons engulfed the entire country. 
The real tragedy in this case is the shameful way all parties in this case, from the media to the judge to the lawyers, carried on. The vic­tims' families and O.J. (because he wasn't allowed to say much) were the only participants in this case that conducted themselves with any sense of decorum. 
The lawyers and Judge Ito for their part were busy making a mess of the American legal sys­tem, casting long shadows on the very tenets !}lat guiq~ Qur jurisprudence. The suspect rul­ings, the procedural gaffs and the numerous concessions engaged in by all sides made The People's Court look as if Judge Marshall and not Judge Wapner were presiding. 
The media for their part created a horren­dous frenzy that helped to reinforce every neg­ative stereotype about the oft-abused in­stitution. The supermarket tabloids and re­spectable papers became indistinguishable as they both worked feverishly to follow every scrap thrown to them by attorneys, or bad tip, vicious rumor or worthless tidbit about a "uror's personal life. 
Television provided us with the pictures, de­scriptions and accounts of similar "values," unerringly bring the absolute worst muck they could fmd to the screen, as long as it had the name O.J Simpson attached to it. An army of consultants streamed forth, dominating the air­waves, eager to predict how things would turn out, or what significance this sideways glance from a bailiff meant. Hopefully they all have · obs to return to. 
And the public drooled. As America sat trans­fixed before its TV screens yesterday, one thing was unfortunately clear: for some reason, the masses loved the awful show. 
This paper has quietly limited its coverage of the O.J. Simpson trial. Today's and yesterday's stories are the only articles you will fmd on the subject. As a campus newspaper, the first rule of content is this: How does the story affect the reader? With a duty to a readership in Notre Dame, In., the answer was not obvious. 
This case was not about race, not about power, not even some higher religious, polit­ical, moral, or Constitutional question. It wasn't on par with the Scopes Monkey Trial, the trial of the Chicago Seven, a Presidential impeachment or Brown vs. Board of Education. It was the story of a popular athlete, thousands of miles away, who stood accused of murdering his wife and a waiter. That's all. A Menendez or Buttafuoco case in different clothing. Should there have been such a frenzy over just that? Most definitely no. Hence the limited coverage. 
The losers in this case are numerous. First 
and foremost the principals and their families 
have suffered tremendously. 
But the lawyers have lost points for their pro­
fession and the media have tarnished their rep­
utation. The circus that was the trial is a dark 
day in the history of America. It should be 
treated as such; because the biggest loser of all 
is the American public. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Accent  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Angie Kelver  
Mark Huffman  Grnat Epstein  
Sports  Amy Crawford  
Joe V"illinski  Viewpoint  
Graphics  Tom Snider  
Zoe Marin  Jennifer Kellog  
Lab Tech  Production  
Bradon Candura  Belle Bautista  
David C. Diaz  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday duough Friday except during exam and vacation periodS. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
At least ten dead as hurricane heads north torward U.S. 
VERAC~!JZ. Mexico Hurricane Opal The Gulf Coast from Lomsmna to the Projected movemen 
Florida Panhandle was put under bur­ .  
ricane watch today as Hurricane Opal  ~  ConditionsasotMondayiOa.m.CDT  
inched northward. In its wake, heavy  200t<m  
winds, high surf and floodwaters left at  
least 10 people dead and 20 missing in  
Mexico.  
Forecasters said Opal wasn't expect­ 
ed to hit the U.S. mainland until about  
midday Wednesday. The storm became  
a hurricane on Monday, and its 90 mph  
winds  were  expected  to  further  
increase in intensity today as Opal  
moved over the warm waters of the  
Gulf of Mexico.  
At 11  a.m.  EDT, Opal was centered  
about 435 miles south-southwest of the  
mouth of the Mississippi River, heading  
north at 8 mph, according to  the  
National Hurricane Center in Miami.  A  w  th  

• , 8~o~ur~ce~:.!::!c~c~u-~e~a~e,_r______.!:!!....J d 1 h · 1 d dd" "Th
As a tropical storm, Opal passed-to eave t e IS an . a mg: 
through southern Mexico over the weekend, causing flooding that drove more than 20,000 people in Campeche state from their homes. The official Notimex news agency said 100,000 people had to evacuate. 
At least 10 people, including a baby boy who drowned, were killed in Campheche and Tabasco states as a result of the storm, the capital daily Reforma reported today. 
Clinton vetoes Congressional bill 

WASHINGTON 

President Clinton today vetoed a bill that pays the costs of running Congress, telling lawmakers he won't approve their budget until more work is done on federal spending bills. Clinton's third veto as president came on a bill that allows for $2.2 billion in congressional spending -a $200 mil­lion reduction from fiscal year 1995. Announcing the veto, White House press secretary Mike McCurry said only two of 13 appropriation bills have been sent to Clin­ton for his signature. "If they send this bill ... after they completed the people's work, the president will be willing to take care of their business," he said. The Republican majority in Congress sent the budget-cutting bill as a symbol of their eagerness to cut back government spend­in 
Janitor fired for recycling too much 
SAN JOSE 

Being a good environmental citizen cost Brad Reynolds 
his job. Reynolds was fired from Home Depot because, 
the company said, he spent too much time recycling. "I 
thought I was doing the right thing," he said. "Now I'm 
sorry I even bothered." Reynolds, 27, is a passionate re­
cycler. At home he recycles even broken light bulbs and 
the cardboard from rolls of toilet paper. It seemed natu­
ral for him to recycle at work. "Just about everything in 
that store -computer paper, stacks of old newspaper 
ads, cans, bottles-goes into the trash compactor," 
Reynolds said. "I figured it's a big company, a big store, 
but I'm gonna do what I can to make a difference." So 
Reynolds separated recyclables from the trash and took 
them home, where he left them on the curb to be picked 
up by the city's recycling trucks. But Home Depot, which 
does recycle cardboard, said Reynolds' efforts interfered 
with his $9.50-an-hour job. The Atlanta-based company, 
the nation's largest hardware chain, warned him twice 
about recycling on company time. "He was taking exces­
sively long to do his job because he was recycling.... 
That's simply it," said company spokesman Jerry Shields. 
"It costs more money than it ultimately saves. 
The state of Tabasco has received 20 percent of its annual average rainfall in the past four days. Four hundred com­munities in the state were flooded. 
Twelve-foot waves were reported in Mexican waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Tropical storm warnings remained in effect from the eastern side of the Yucatan Peninsula westward to Ver­acruz state, but forecasters expected those to be dropped today. 
The hurricane watch was in effect from Morgan City, La., to just west of Pensacola, Fla. The National Hurricane Center said the watch could be extended eastward today to cover more of north­west Florida. 
In Louisiana, an evacuation was ordered today of the state's only inhab­ited barrier island. Grand Isle. Mayor Andy Valence said residents were pre­

pare ey know the danger. They just wait for the word and then do it." 
Oil companies started bringing in workers from Gulf of Mexico rigs on Friday, said Ron Gayler of Petroleum Helicopters Inc. 
Opal is the ninth hurricane of the Atlantic Ocean tropi­cal storm season. 
Dahmer's brain lies in question 
PORTAGE, Wis. 

A hearing on whether scientists will get to study serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer's brain ended inconclusively Tues­day with the judge asking for more information. Dah­mer's mother wants the preserved brain made available for study to see if scientists can find any abnormalities that might have accounted for his homicidal, cannibalis­tic behavior. His father opposes the study. The rest of Dahmer's body was cremated last month, as he request­ed in his will. The ashes were divided between his estranged parents. His brain, preserved in formaldehyde, has been in the custody of the state pathologist's office in Madison. The hearing began Tuesday in Columbia County Circuit Court on the request by Dahmer's mother, Joyce Flint of Fresno, Calif., to let scientists examine the brain tissue. Lionel Dahmer of Akron, Ohio, addressed the court by speaker phone and said he opposed the study because it was against his son's wishes. 
Vision testing reduces crash rate 
CHICAGO 

Requiring vision tests before renewing driver's licens­es can significantly reduce fatal crashes involving elderly motorists, according to a nationwide study. "Many peo­ple think license screening is just pro forma and nobody is really protected," Levy said. "This study shows that license screening, particularly vision testing, is effective at reducing fatal crashes involving senior drivers." The eight states that did not require vision testing during the 1985-89 study had 7 percent more fatalities each year among elderly drivers than the 42 states with mandatory vision screening, the researchers reported in Wednesday's issue of The Journal of the American Medical Association. Testing motorists' road knowledge had an insignificant effect on the rate of fatal crashes involving elderly motorists, researchers said. Researchers controlled for differences among states that could skew the results, such as how much people drove on average, how fast they drove, the degree of urbaniza­tion, the availability of hospitals and other factors. During the four years studied, an average of 17,294 dri­vers older than 70 were involved in fatal crashes each year. 


• NATIONJU. WEATHER 
Wednesday, Oct. 4 
Accu-Weathers forecast for daytime conditions and high 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1995 AccuWealher, Inc. 
H ~~ L B ESI ITII 0 IZl § -l) ~ ~U 
HIGH LOW' SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUOY CLOUOY VIa AMotated p,... 
Wednesday, October 4, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 
page 3 

Sweeny: Budget cuts 
Women struggle for identity 
can hurt businesses 
By SARAH TAYLOR 
N~s Writer 
Businesses across the country 
stand to lose large amounts of 
government funding if the Re­
publican budget cuts are insti­
tuted, and the Notre Dame Re­
search Department is no ex­
ception, according to Dr. 
Thomas Sweeny, assistant vice­
president and director of the 
Office of Research 
Actual figures reflecting the loss of funding have not yet been released, Sweeny said. However; the Research De­partment has enjoyed a great increase in federal funding during the past five years, from $9.6 million in fiscal 1990 to $16.2 million in fiscal 1994. 
The pending budget cuts will surely be a slap in the face to such a flourishing department, according to Sweeny. 
"Notre Dame has always done very well [in obtaining research funding], especially in the areas of the National Institute for Humanities," Sweeny said. However, the arts and humanities are the prima­ry target of the budget cuts. 
"It looks that the health-re­lated agencies will be doing very well," Sweeny added. 
Consequently, science research will not feel the effects of the loss of funding as acutely as the arts and humani­ties. 
The full effects of the budget 
cuts will depend upon the reac­
tion of the Notre Dame faculty, 
Sweeny said. ''The biggest fear 
is that the faculty may overre­
act." 

If the faculty continues to 
submit high-quality research 
proposals, then its members 
will do well, according to 
Sweeny. However, if negative 
reactions to the cuts hinder 
their productivity, then they 
will surely suffer. 

Though the cuts may be sub­
stantial, government funding 
will not completely vanish. 
"Keep remembering that the 
total number of dollars still 
available for research is large," 
Sweeny said. 

Because Notre Dame profes­sors are instructors, not just researchers, none of the faculty is fully supported by research funds. 
Accordingly, Sweeny said he foresees no paycuts or lay-offs for the faculty. 
The Notre Dame Research Department has a dual pur­pose: to locate funding for the faculty's proposals, as well as to submit these proposals to the appropriate agencies. 
"When the University cannot provide all of the necessary funding for a proposal, then the Research Department steps in," Sweeny said. 

S NDAY,O OBERl, 
& 
SVNDAY, OCI'OBER 8 

• MUST HAVE RIDDEN A HORSE AT LEAST ONCE • • TRANSPORTATION PROVIDED • 
r ~·$15.fPiN· r 

BUS DEPARTS RETURN LIBRARY CIRCLE .Rll2E TO CAMPUS 10/1 10:15 11:00 12:30 10/1 11:45 12:30 2:00 10/8 10::15 11:00 1:30 10/8 12:15 1:00 2:30 
REGISTER& PAY IN ADVANCE . MAXIMUM NUMBER PER RIDE IS 5 ~ Hm MOI~E INfO Ct1LL nECSPOnTS .H6.11-61011 
By KAREN POGGI 
News Writer 
Describing Asian American 
women's struggle for identity, 
Eun-Sook Lee, a representative 
from the Korean American 
Resource and Cultural Center of 
Chicago, spoke last night as a 
part of the 1995 Multicultural 
Fall Festival. 
Lee, who immigrated to 
Canada from Korea when she 
was a very young girl, said that 
some stereotypes held against 
both Asian American men and 
women may cause them to view 
each other negatively. These 
stereotypes cause many Asian 
Americans to turn to other 
races in order to find spouses. 
Lee said that many Asian 
American women choose men 
of other races because of bad 
experiences with their fathers, 
brothers or male friends who 
may have been violent or 
aggressive. 
Lee, who works with her hus­band at a laundromat, also addressed the topic of violence against women, particularly Asian American women, saying that many, if not the majority, of Asian American women do not report domestic violence. 
Some of these incidents of domestic violence go unreport­ed for reasons that are unique to Asian American women, Lee said. 
Asian American women are afraid to be excluded from their communities, because commu­nity membership is very impor­tant to many of them. They fear that if they leave their abusive husbands they will be forced to leave their neighborhood, church and circle of friends as 

Love, Mom and Dad 

Alurnni/ Senior Club 



Hey Seniors! 
• FREE Foo;D N:aoat• 
Tonight -1:00 -9:00 pm Featuring 

Blimpie SUBS 
Alurnni/ Senior Club 

well. 
According to Lee, another reason that many women don't report abuse is that they mis­trust the law because of cases that they are aware of in which the police mistreat minorities. They may fear that reporting the abuse by their husbands would bring shame to their 
families. 
In addition, many women keep the violence a secret because their husbands can speak better English than they can, and their husbands could possibly convince the police that his wife is lying or even that the violence is her fault. 
"Violence is about power," Lee said, and is a way for men to assert their strength and power over women. This fact makes tt a global problem, obviously not restricted solely 

to Asian Americans. 
Lee told of many hotline ser­
vices, shelters, workshops and 
counseling centers now avail­
able for Asian American 
women. 
Having their own services is 
important for Asian American 
women because of language 
barriers and cultural differ­
ences, Lee said. 
However, the only main ways 
of dealing with the abusive men 
are incarceration or counseling, 
neither of which seems to be 
very effective in most cases, 
according to Lee. 
Only two-thirds of those men 
counseled keep from beating 
their wives or girlfriends for 
over eighteen months, and most 
men either do not go to their 
counseling sessions at all, or do 
not finish them, Lee said. 
The men who are incarcerat­
ed often return even more bit­
ter than before, causing them 
to continue the beatings, or 
even increase their intensity. 
Speaking about inequality in general, Lee mentioned the low wages and poor treatment that Asian American workers receive in the workplace, and she noted that numerous orga­nizations have been formed to help them with not only these problems but also with many others. 
Some of these include the Organization of American Women, Organization of Chinese Women and Unbound Feet. 
These organizations deal with topics such as education, out­reach, health, child care and drug abuse among Asian Americans. Most of the groups mentioned are concerned main­ly with Asian American women. 



Wednesday, October 4, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 4 


'lS 

POW~~ 

Sponsoretf 6y: M u[ticu[turaf 'E~ecu tive C ouncif 
MULTl CULTURHL FHLL FESTIUHL 

CULTURE 
ON THE QUAD October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club Greek Club Filipino Club 
TroopND 

Fireside Chats 
October 2-6 .. Women in the Rrts.. · Notre Dame Room, Lafortune 12:15-1 : 1 5 p.m. Monday: Professor Lyonga Tuesday: Professor Alice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus Friday: Jill 6odmillow 
TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 

Entertainment by Saber Latino 
SPECIAL 





EUENTS 
October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00p.m. Eun-Sook Lee 
OctoberS Ball Room 7:00p.m. John Ole Tome 


r---------------------------------­
----~ 

Wednesday, October 4, 1995 The Observer •CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Shannon honored for business achievements 
University benefactor dies 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-4543 



The Observer 
is hosting: 

The Observer Writing Workshop 

Wednesday, Octobpr ~~ -1 . d1.. in the 
Another student relishes in the South Bend weather by simply tossin the ol' frisbee around with some friends.
F0d·~-~ Ce1 e une. 

By KATHLEEN POLICY 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's pro­fessor William Shannon III, who co­ordinates the interna­
~ii~~~~!us~~~ss ~~~: 
r \ !>~ ~> i,:;;;
0 

keting section of the Ill><-.· Ill..
....·... ,f···

College, was selected ~,, .• 
for inclusion in the Shannon 1995 edition of "Who's Who in America," a biographical reference of individuals who demonstrate outstanding achieve-
Special to the Observer 
Word has been received of the death of Margaret Hall Cushwa of Youngstown, Ohio. Mrs. Cushwa died Saturday af­ter a long illness. She was 89 years old. 
Mrs. Cushwa was a 1930 graduate of Saint Mary's College, and her husband Charles was a 1931 Notre Dame alumnus who died in 
All Cal\ ~~.:.rver News and 
... 1t:cent writers welcome. 


W~ GWW.llJ ~ ~~
n5t ~vrn \1 5~ 
JOIN YOUR CLASS IN THE LAFORTUNE BALLROOM TO WATCH TH AME. 





f~l ~~~~~~~~ It f 
c;,oc\0• t»\'la-z.cJ•ot" 

ftee" tto9c .,_,sG\"e.,_.,r G~eo\ e" f'J 
.r:!.Cte 
1975. 
Both were active and fre­quent benefactors of the Uni­versity. 
The most significant of their many gifts made possible the establishment of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism in 1981. 
Mrs. Cushwa also served on Notre Dame's women's advi­sory council and on the board of regents of Saint Mary's ment in their fields, and have con­tributed significantly to the betterment of society. 
Known as an outstanding en­trepreneur, Shannon received this acco­lade due to his score of achievements in the business field. He serves as chair­man of the Hacienda Mexican Restau­rant Chain. In spite of all his accom­plishments outside the College, Shannon says his greatest loyalty is to the Saint Mary's community. 
"I delegate the day to day re­sponsibilities at the Hacienda to the employees, so that teaching can be my main focus," said Shannon. 
Shannon is honored by being chosen 
College. 

She is survived by two sons, Charles Cushwa of Poland, Ohio, and William Cushwa of Youngstown, both Notre Dame alumni; a daughter, Mrs. Mary Ellen Wolsonovich of Youngstown; 11 grandchildren and four great grandchildren. 
A funeral Mass will be cele­brated at Saint Columba Cathe­dral in Youngstown on October 4 at 6 p.m. 
for "Who's Who." However, he said most of the Saint Mary's faculty and administrators qualify for the same honor. 
"The faculty and administration at Saint Mary's do so much; many of them have accomplishments that should be recognized," said Shannon. "I had been in business before becoming a full-time faculty member, so I participated in many organizations and endeavors, and my opportunities were more diversified than other faculty members." 
Shannon's primary focus is helping women in business, which is exhibited through the Shannon Executive Scholar Program. This program brings back distinguished alumnae in all fields to share insights with students and faculty. 
"This is a resource for communication with students and faculty; with alumnae describing the benefits of a Saint Mary's education," Shannon said. 
Reflecting on his honor, he offers one word of advice to students-"L.U.C.K." This philosophy is an acronym for listen, discover the uniqueness of yourself, competence in school and in work, and knowledge to succeed in professional career, according to Shannon. 
In order "to use his knowledge to bet­ter the college," Shannon said he plans to spend more time at Saint Mary's and less with outside activities. 


11J..I~llSI~ lll~f~Yf~J..I~ '1,111~ f)IISI~Ill71~1l 
Attention All Marketing Majors: 
MARKETING CLUB MEETING 
7:00pm Tonight! 
Downstairs Lounge -Business Building Free Pizza and Pop 
·Professor Jim O'Rourke will be speak­ing on improving your interviewing skills ·Must bring resumes!! And $10 dues to be included in Resume book
G..\CJ ~ Brought to you by YOUR SoP.homore Counc1l. ~' EMAIL US AT: Class.of.1998@nd.eetu CALL . 1-5225 VISIT US AT: 213 Lafortune, Mon & Thurs. 2-4pm 
page6 
Si01pson 
continued from page 1 
who made it from the housing projects of San Francisco to the mansions of Brentwood with charm, go·od looks and a pair of feet that could run like the wind. 
His public life was the object of envy: glory on the football field at the University of South­ern California and for the Buf­falo Bills, fame as a commercial pitchman for Hertz, pop culture status for his "Naked Gun" movie roles. 
His private life, however, was something else. Prosecutors said Simpson was a man whose outward strength of body and personality hid psychological weakness. He was, they said, racked by jealousy, plagued with anger, bent on control in every situation. He was a time bomb. 
The bomb exploded, accord­

ing to prosecutors, on June 12, 
1994. 
There was never any testi­

mony about where Simpson 
\;VaS for 7~ criP.cal minutes that 
night, from when his house 
guest Brian "Kato" Kaelin last 
saw him to when he was next 
seen by the limousine driver. 
Simpson's defense rested on 


HPC 
continued from page 1 
VCRs, Cannon said, adding that "you do not have to spend the full $500 you are entitled to, but you may." 
Some halls have already made purchases for which they would like to have funds matched. These purchases, along with any others that have yet to be made, must go through the Purchasing De­partment at the Office of Stu­dent Residences. All purchases must be made by December 6, which is the deadline for dorms to recP-ive their funds 
other business at the meeting included an announcement that the Gorch Games Room in LaFortune Student Center is sponsoring a series of tourna­ments in which the winning dorm will be awarded a pool table, valued at $2000. 
"We have an extra pool table this year. We are only using seven of the eight from last year because this year we have made room for darts and other things," said Ryan Bohr. "We 
security 
•Police 
were on tactical alert, retaining morning shifts and increasing the number of day shift officers by a third. 

•Temple 
Street, in front of the criminal court building, was blocked off by squad cars; 20 to 

• 
30 officers were standing by. 

•Rockingham 
Avenue and Bundy Drive were closed off, forbidding access to O.J. Simpson's estate and Nicole Brown Simpson's condo. 

•A 
command center in the basement of City Hall was staffed with police and fire personnel for emergency operations. 



place he wasn't that night was 875 S. Bundy Drive a few miles away, where the throats of Ms. Simpson and Goldman were slashed. 
thought that dorms might like the table, so in order to decide who gets it we are holding a super tournament." 
Each dorm will have a mini­tournament at the Gorch Games Room to decide who will represent the dorm in the final tournament. The mini-tour­naments will result in two win­ners from each dorm, and these two people will compete in the super tournament for the pool table, according to Bohr. 
"We are encouraging a lot of people to sign up because it should be a lot of fun, and each dorm will win some sort of a prize," Bohr said. 
The Gorch Games Room will be renting out the room for any clubs or organizations. Rental of the room includes free pool, darts, air hockey, music and food catered by the Huddle. The cost is $5 per person, and rental must be done during the non-peak hours of the day. 
Brendan Kelly, a Student Government representative, will speak to HPC about South Dining Hall renovations and the possibility of a change in the meal plan at next week's meet­ing. 

The Multicultural Executive Council, in association with the Pan-Mrican Cultural Center presents: John Ole Tome, Masai Warrior & Cultural Entertainer 
from Kenya Speaking at Notre Dame 

A Night of Masai Culture, Wisdom, Songs, and Dance. The Masai are a unique people ofKeny_a an~ Tanzania, East Africa. Performance presented by The Multtcultural Executive Council in cooperation with the Pan-African Cultural Center and The Salon of Friendship. 
LaFortune Ball Room, Thursday, October 5, 1995@ 7:00p.m. 
A rece tion will foUOUJ (free ofcharge) ! 

The Observer • NEWS 


Accord 
continued from page 1 

Israeli held West Bank to be divided into three sectors. Israelis will withdraw com­pletely from Arab-populated areas including six cities but will share authority with the Palestinians in rural areas. The "redeployment" of Israelis will begin within ten days of the signing and completion will occur within six months. 
Opposition within both Israel and Palestine has arisen as a result of the concessions made by both sides. While a majority of citizens, from 50-60 percent, in both countries are said to be in support of the accord, there are still a significant minority who hold strong opposition to the plans.According to Dowty, around 20 percent of Israelis "remain committed to Israeli control of historic Palestine," and are facing frustration because they find themselves in the minority on the issue. There are also Palestinians who possess dreams of an entirely Palestinian state. 

Gats kill 
continued from page 1 

Motor Coach Company, where he worked for two years. He was then hired by the privately­owned Northern Indiana Transit Company, which later became a public company when the city of South Bend bought it and renamed it "Transpo." Gatskill worked there from 1950 until 1987, and spent 25 of those 37 years as an "extra board" employee. 
"When you start out, you pretty much work anytime they want you to work," explains Gatskill, who usually devoted between 70-75 hours per week as an extra board employee. In addition to working un­usually long hours, Gatskill was required to work Sundays and holidays. To help make those 
The situation is at a very fragile point and any violent acts by either side could halt the peace process. For this rea­son Israelis have been leaning on Yassir Arafat, leader of the Palestinian Authority, to control any acts of terrorism that might affect the progression of events. While Arafat holds some degree of control over insurrectionist groups such as Hamas, it is nearly impossible to control calculated acts of terrorism meant to disrupt the process. "Preventing all acts of terrorism is like trying to pre­vent traffic accidents. You can't anticipate or protect the targets because it only takes a handful of fanatics," Dowty said. 
As a result there will be many "ups and downs" in the process as each situation occurs and must then be responded to by the leaders. It is unlikely, how­ever, that any of these acts will have permanent repercussions on the process. According to Dowty, "The Israeli government and Arafat are in the same bas­ket on this. It's hard to see a scenario where you will go back to where you were. It's not impossible but would take a 
times more enjoyable, Gatskill would bring along his son Larry, who was five years old at the time. 
"He was a really good child who would sit near the door and talk to the passengers," Gatskill said. His son would tell passengers that he also wanted to be a bus driver when he grew up. Although Gatskill tried to dissuade his son from follow­ing in his footsteps, Larry Gatskill did become a bus dri­ver. 
Gatskill, who has worked for Transpo for the past 28 years, retired from the company in 1987. He took a part-time job with the United Limo company. where he spent time as a shut­tle driver for the Notre Dame­Saint Mary's community. 
Although Gatskill has been committed to his work at Saint Mary's (he only turned down the opportunity to work two 
Wednesday, October 4, 1995 
dramatic series of events, and the leadership of both sides have strong incentives not to let it happen." At this point, the Israelis are looking to give up nothing more affecting the security of Israelis. The Palestinians are looking for any factors that will strengthen their statehood. These views will impact the completion of the third step in the peace process, which may take the longest amount of time and will involve the most sacrifice on both sides. According to Dowty, the most difficult problems were left for this step including the "nature of the Palestinian entity," the borders, and the is­sues of the settlers and the refugees. It is "highly unlikely," however, that the final step will be completed within the two years it has been estimated to take considering the issues that must be negotiated. The process will most probably see completion, however, Dowty said, "It may stall at certain stages.The general direction of things is fairly clear-there will be two states in historic 
Palestine and a Palestinian independence in some form." 
times in six years), he has out­side interests which keep him busy during his free time. Gatskill spends most of his time engraving plaques and life-size silhouettes from plywood, and he also makes personalized badges for employees at restau­rants and companies in the South Bend community. He also makes personalized license plates. When he is not trans­porting people or spending time in his workshop, Gatskill enjoys 
fishing  at  Lake  Juno,  in  
Edwardsburg,  Mich.  
After  over  forty  years  of  

working with the public, it seems natural that Gatskill would want to continue his work at Saint Mary's, wMre he says he "enjoys talking with the students." More importantly to Gatskill, however, his workload and outside interests. are allowing him to "keep busy" during his retirement. 

r:lasle Of 
X a f1"ons 
FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT FROM AROUND THE WORLD 
Come foin !.hefun I rS!op by before c5y!7?"s and!JormalsI Xc£o/1 !.he weebendin a unirue way andbrin!J allyourfriends/ 

0ponsorecfb_y: !JJ(ufiicufiuraf0xeculiue Gounc1f 
Featuring: Sabor Latino, Voices ofFaith, Main Street, Rockerettes, and a great night offun, dance, food and music! 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1995 8 P.M.-12 A.M. STEPAN CENTER ADMISSION: $1 

Wednesday, October 4, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page7 


'Popular' Pope to return to U.S. 
By HUGH MULLIGAN Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Placido Domingo, Natalie Cole and Hoberta Flack wiJJ warm up his audiences. 
Free tickets '( to his outdoor · e·vents are The Pope being scalped at prices that might be whis­pered in Shubert Alley for sold­out Broadway musicals ­upwards of $100. 
A healthier Pope John Paul II returns to the United States Wednesday with popularity rat­ings any politician would covet. 
A New York Times-CBS News poll released over the weekend found 92 percent of U.S. Catholic adults view him favor­ably and only 4 percent unfa­vorably. 
During his live-day visit, the pope will confer with President Clinton, address the United Na­tions General Assembly and preach to huge crowds at the outdoor Masses in Giants Sta­dium in the New Jersey Mead­owlands, at Aqueduct race track, on the Great Lawn in New York's Central Park and at Qriole Parle in JJaltimore. 
The pope began 1995 as Time Magazine's Man of the Year, his 12th appearance on Time's cover. 
His book, "Crossing the Threshold of Hope," was a best-seller in 20 countries. 
The English translation of the new Catechism of the Catholic Church, a major project of his papacy, has sold an astonishing 
2.3 million copies in hardback. 
At the.outset of-his 18th year on the throne of Peter, Catholic population worldwide has passed the billion mark. 
The Holy Father has made a remarkable comeback from the effects of a partial thigh bone in prayer and periods of "pro­found silence" than they do in almost a year watching permit­ted television programs of reli­gious or historical interest. 
They range in age from 43 to "the most excited of all" -88­year-old Sister Mary of the Immaculate Heart, who re­nounced the world seven decades ago but would give the world, her six-acre world, to see His Holiness. 

Pick The Taste America Loves! 
Hot Pockets• And Lean Pockets• Are The Tasty Hot Meals In ACrispy Crust. 
Br•nd Br•nd • Pepperoni Pizza • Ham 'N Cheese • Turkey & Ham with Cheese • Beef & Cheddar  • Sausage & Pepperoni Pizza Deluxe • Turkey, Broccoli & Cheese • Chicken Fajita  
I \MFG. COUPON I EXPIRES JANUARY 31, 1996\  

TRANSLATED AND DIRECTED BY REV. DAVID GARRICK, C.S.C. 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4 •.. 8:00P.M. fRIDAY, OCT. 6 ..•....•.•. 8:00P.M. 
:Save $l.OO~No 
THURSDAY, OCT. 5 ......8:00P.M. SATURDAY, OCT. 7 ...... 8:00P.M. 
I when you buy any 2 packages of 
SUNDAY, OCT. 8 ......... 2:30P.M.
I Hot Pockets® or Lean Pockets® 
J Br.nd "tufff'd \.lndwlchn 8r.1nd Stuff.d SandwichH 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HALL • RESERVED SEATS $8
I (any combination) 
Thlo coupon good ody on purdlMe of produd ..-. Any olher uoo ~ 
STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS 
I 
fraud COUPON NOT TRANSfERABLE. UMIT ONE COUPON PER PURCHASE. lb lhe 
TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAFORTUNE 
-ClloiAmenca wll-you"" lhe lace value of !his coupon plus II< w-
STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFfiCE. M;~.STElC;I.lD AND VIS;I. DlDUS C;I.LL 631·8128
I -"'compllllnce""" 111e"""' of !his"""'· va11c1 ody w.--bydiSirllxrt""'"' 1 
~~~o:==~~-=~'i:::;;!':":· 5 3 .J 
~-----------------------­
replacement after a bathroom removed as acting Superior fall that caused the cancellation General of the Jesuits, look of a planned U.S. visit a year upon this Pope as a moral bat­ago. tering ram in bringing down the Berlin Wall and European 
Journeying to his fifth conti­Communism. nent since then, the 75-year-old In the words of Mikhail Gor­pontiff has thrown away his bachev, "Everything that has cane, and walks with less of the happened in Eastern Europe pronounced stoop observed these last few years would be during his recovery. impossible without the pope 
Occasionally however, espe­and without the important role, cially when he is climbing including the political role, he steps, the ruddy face is caught played on the world stage." by the TV cameras grimacing in pain. More recently the pope has 
To assist him during the energized Vatican diplomats to recent African trip, elevators or exert formidable pressure on hydraulic lifts were installed at two United Nations confer­several altar sites. ences, on population and devel­
opment in Cairo, Egypt, and on women in Beijing. 'Everything that has For months now, the most happened in polyglot pope ever to evangelize 
in Peter's footsteps has beenEastern Europe these studying Chinese in order to · last few years would be deliver his address in all the 
major languages used in con­
impossible witbout the 
ducting daily business at the Pope and without the U.N. Away from the seats of power 
important role, includ­
and the crowded bleachering the political role, he seats, the shepherd from Rome will spend some time with the
played on the world 
powerless and the unempow­
stage.' ered. He will have a casserole lunch with the homeless at a soup kitchen in Baltimore just Mikhail Gorbachev down the block from the na­tion's oldest Catholic cathedral. At Newark's Sacred Heart cathedral he will greet more The 75-foot high altar at than 120 cloistered nuns, some Giants Stadium might pose a going out of their convents for painful challenge to this aging the first time since taking their mountain climber. vows a half century ago. In addressing the United Na­"Excitement has been run­tions on Thursday, John Paul II ning high here since the day his will have a far greater presence visit was announced," Sister than when he faced the world Mary Martin, prioress of the body at the outset of his papacy Dominican monastery of Our in 1979. Lady of the Rosary in Summit, Such diverse ligures as Czech N.J., said in an interview on the President Vaclav Havel, Ronald eve of the pope's arrival. Reagan, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Her 22 nuns, who leave the who was Jimmy Carter's na­cloister only for medical visits tional security adviser, and the and death in the immediate Rev. Vincent O'Keefe, whom he family, spend more hours a day 


The Observer/Dave Murphy 

A view from above 
Notre Dame students scattered on the quad kick back and enjoy some time outside the classroom. 

Judge allows second woman to fight Citadel 
By BRUCE SMITH Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 
A federal judge agreed Tuesday that another woman may take up where Shannon Faulkner left off in the light to get women into the c_orps of cadets at The Citadel. 
U.S. District Judge Weston Houck formally dismissed Faulkner as a plaintiff after a 2 1/2-year court battle to become a cadet at the all-male school. 
Nancy Mellette, a senior at a North Carolina military preparatory academy, replaces Faulkner, who dropped out of The Citadel in August after less than a week as the first female cadet at the state military col­lege. 
"It seems to me Ms. Faulkner's claim in this case is moot," Houck said. "She has brought a lawsuit to obtain a particular result, she has at­tained the result and for all in­tents and purposes has volun­tarily given up the benefits of that result." 
Houck said the court battle ­now focused on whether a women's leadership program at Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C. is a legal al­ternative to women at the Citadel -will go to trial on Nov. 13. 
Mellette, 17, appeared in court with her mother, Connie. Her father is a Citadel graduate and her brother is a senior Citadel cadet. 
She responded with a quiet "Yes, sir," when asked by Houck if she was willing to rep­resent the interests of other women who hope to become cadets. She refused to speak with reporters afterwards. 
"She intervened at this point because she wants to attend The Citadel," said her attorney, Val Vojdik, who also repre­sented Faulkner. "She wants to pick up the baton, so to speak, and carry it forward." 
Houck also refused, for now, to make the case a class-action lawsuit representing all women who may want to become cadets at the school. 
He said he had to study the case law further. 
PUNEr HOU.YWOOOISHEAR IIAONESS &l1day Nov. 26111, $54.00 per person Tour Seals Tower and See ClllcagJ from the Top, Have Lln:tl at Planet Holywood. Wid See h lilarloua WhocUllt 'Shear Malhlss' Transportation Wid~ Snacks n:bled 
CHRISTIWI SHOPPING 
CIRCLE CENTRE MALL lnmday Nov. 181h 
WOODFIELD MAWFtlday Nov. 24th GURNEE llll.I.SISlllday Dec. 3l'd Only $19.00 per persoo, and lnckldes III8Cka 
Let Jaguar help you creal8 thai special bus tJ1l Clll Todly (218) ~ 0111ce Ibn: a:oo.n ·1:<X¥n Please Leave Message After Hotn 
JaprT01111 apeclalzas In WI« CclorttOO and lhl Rocldes 


~------------------------------------------~ 






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, October 4, 1995 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARv's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 


1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas 

Chapter
Managing Editor Business Marrager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 

Two... • 
News Editor .........•...................... David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak 1iporrs Editor_.y ... , ..... , ....•.......... Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .......•••............... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller .......•..................................... Eric Lnrge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does ~or necessarily reflect the policies of the administra· tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi· torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to aU members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E~Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Salary awareness merits response 


Notre Dame: World of 'haves' and 'have nots' 
Dear Editor: 
T
hank you, Megan McGrath and The Observer, for your recent article, "Support staff lies at lower end of pay scale." 
It has turned out to be an article of great importance. And thanks, Teresa Ghilarducci, Jean Porter, and others, who have taken it upon themselves to seek the truth and testify on behalf of Notre Dame's administrative staff. 
You are absolute champions! My cowork· ers and I know only too well the truth in every word of Megan's article. 
It is great relief to have the injustices suf­fered by so many discussed openly and hon­estly for the first time. 
And I am encouraged by Roger Mullins' (Human Resource Department) willingness tG investigate this important issue. 
But please, Mr. Mullins, don't try to defend your system of wages by averaging salaries. 
The average of my annual salary and that of my department head is $65,000, but one of us struggles every month to come up with her rent. 
T
You know that Notre Dame is a community of "haves" and "have-nots." For those of us who are paid at or below poverty level, the inequities are not imagined or even exagger­ated. hey -ar-e terrible and they are wreaking havoc in the lives of good people-people who came to Notre Dame in good faith, with their skills and dedication and reasonable hopes for their own futures. 
We are counting on you to take this oppor­
tunity to eliminate from your wage system 
needless obstacles to our success. 
ANONYMOUS 


Forum organizers clarify points 
Dear Editor: 

We would like to express our appreciation for Megan McGrath's cov­erage of our Gender Studies Forum on staff salaries last Thursday, Sept. 
21. She did a fme job in sorting through a complex presentation and an emotional discussion. 
However, there are two points at which Ms. McGrath's story could be misleading. Because we are eager that the facts be placed before the Notre Dame community in as accurate and complete a form as possible, we would like to correct her story on these points. 
First of all, Teresa Ghilarducci's statement that Notre Dame's secre­tarial wages rank near the bottom, compared to local employers, referred to the relative rank of secretarial wages, compared to other oc­cupations within this university. 
No other major local employer, to our knowledge, pays its secretaries at the low end of its pay scale; typically, guards, janitors, and nurses' aides are the lowest paid occupations within an occupation. 
Secondly, we did not say that "most" university secretaries make less than $16,000 a year (the amount needed in this state to support a family of three, containing one worker, above poverty level). We said that there are many working at this level, -but we do not claim that a majori­ty are. In our opinion, even one Notre Dame employee living at poverty level is too many. 
We appreciate the opportunity to offer these corrections. It is our hope that the University will provide fuller data on the salaries paid to the clerical staff, so that we can all have a clearer sense of the situation of secretaries at Notre Dame. 
JEAN PORTER TERESA GHILARDUCCI Forum Organizers 
• DDONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"He has just enough strength to bear his dis­ease, and no strength left over to bear the treatment." 
-Moliere (Jean Baptist Poquelin) 






VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 5, 1995 ! page 9 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
The rage ofa privileged class: Part II 
"Iget my butt up every morning and 
go to class. I haven't missed a day. l take good notes, and I always pay attention. l talk to my professors if I have any questions and I study hard and I get good grades. 
I've done all the right things and I try to do all the things I'm supposed to do, y'know, but l can't help but feeling like I shouldn't be here. I feel like a token n*gger, and I guess I would be lying to myself if I said I didn't already know that inside. 
Everybody told me that no matter what I do, I will always be black. Of course I always said, my skin color is never gonna change, but now, I finally understand what they were trying to tell me. Hegardless of anything I ever do, good or bad, I will always be that black engineer or that black doctor, or that black father or just simply that black man. 
No, I ain't ashamed of being black, far from it, but until! can be just simply be an engi­neer or a doctor or a father or a just a man, I can't be content," black male senior. 
"I couldn't get the B's or the C's because in their eyes, it was just as bad as a F. I had to get A's. All my life I have strived for what is right, but having been to the best of the best schools then coming to Notre Dame, I really realize being black and being at one of the best institutions you are really no different 
• than the black person on the corner shooting dice, because your color pre­eedes and follows everything you do. Because of the fact that you're black, you are always questioned, and your work is always challenged. Teachers always find some shit to take off of. I can have an opinion that is as good and logitimate as anybody else's, but some­body white has to validate whatever I say before I am given a second thought. 
Cristiane Likely 

defense would not play "the race card." Even now, I believe Shapiro sincerely meant that. Cochran, howev­er (and perhaps Simpson himselO, intended to play the race card from the outset. 
S
If Mark Fuhrman had never been born, this case would still have been about race. For years, Cochran made a fortune by representing plaintiffs (mainly racial minorities) who alleged that they were victims of police brutality. Because we, as individuals, cannot help but be shapnd by our personal life experiences, Cochran's disposition is not surprising. urely Cochran, as a black American male, knows that there are racist and corrupt cops out there. In addition, Cochran has an ethical duty zealously to rep­resent his client. Part of that duty clearly requires Cochran to impeach the credibility of prosecution wit­nesses (many of whom are police detectives) and to expose or create weaknesses in the prosecution's case in order to raise a reasonable doubt. Where appropri­ate, an effective advocate tries to sway the jury by relating his client's situation to a broader societal theme, such as racism. Where appropriate. 
At their best, criminal defense attorneys ensure that there is a constitutional buffer that protects individual 
At times it's very hard to not be J-l.angry. You always have to be con­scious of how you may be perceived be­cause you don't want to come off as being another angry black person. If you are considered such, your thoughts and remarks are automatically rendered irrational and illogical, when they are very rational and logical," black female junior. 
"I am a black student at this school, and I'll never be part of the 'Notre Dame Family.' l never even really had much contact with white people before I came here. Hight now, I'm friends with a lot of them, but the feeling or fact remains that I am not like them, in my mentality or my outlook on life," black male 
junior. 
"I've never 
questioned or 
doubted myself 
until I got here. 
I've always per­
ceived myself as 
an intelligent 
strong black 
woman, and that 
all changed the 
P
day my plane landed in South Bend. It seems as though every thing I ever did, it was like 'what did the little nigger child do today.' rofessors made me feel that way, other students, too. I was always made to feel I couldn't measure up. The saddest thing about it was that it some­times came from other black people. I'm tired of being the only person whose name is known in class, there are thirty other people. I'm the only chocolate chip in the cookie. 
I've never claimed to be the most intelligent person, but then again I'm no dummy. I'm tired of feeling as though I had to do double the work or answer double the questions in order to mea­sure up. But I've learned over the years that I don't have to measure up in other people's eyes, because meeting the expectations of people who'll never understand me is no longer a priority . 

As long as I know i li:.m doing the best that I can, then there's no lf.P.ed for me to worry about the other man," .hlack female .senior 
''I'm not being recognized for my abili­ty, just recognized for my color. I hated the fact that I was chosen to be a very public member of the Notre Dame stu­dent body in one of my extracurricular activities for the simple fact that I am black. I would rather not be chosen because I wasn't good enough, than be chosen because I am black," black male senior. "1AThen I first came, the name of 
V V Notre Dame intimidated me. Coming to this school the expectations were high; the stakes were high. Coming 
struggle to be content with who I am when everything around me is uncom­fortable with the way I look. I'm sick .t•ld .t,\,~d of being watched, checked on, doubtea·, Cl'r8.1h.m_ged, second-guessed, discouraged, misguidetJ, mistreated, fooled, mystified, disrespecte-1 and ignored. I didn't do anything to desen'.f'l that, and it hurts like hell," black female senior. 
"There is a deep issue that needs to be discussed. Last year I was very angry because l was wronged in many ways by dormmates, even as far as rectors. He­gardless of these facts, I feel very privi­leged to be at Notre Dame. There is nothing like this at home. 
However at home I 
can be treated as 

from the hood, I had to just 'me'. Many succeed. Compared to white students are
'No, I ain't ashamed 
the whites if they failed ignorant because their parents or family of being black, far many have not been would support them, as from it, but until I can be around blacks, 
for me I had nothing to therefore I get weird
just simply an engineer
go back to, therefore I stares, then I think was very nervous. or a doctor or a father or maybe is it because I 
I realized that if I put look funny or is it
just a man, I can't be 
my own mind to any­because I am black. thing then I could content.' It would be nice to achieve to the best of be able to wake up my ability. When I first and not have to think 
came here the white people had a godlike aura, 'up-and-up'. After seeing how the white people study they were just maintaining their classes, if at all. 
But I realized if I studied harder, it made me feel better. I didn't study harder and feel intimidated to succeed because of the white people. I did it for myself. There's a difference between the white and the blacks: the whites talk about going skiing, drinking etc. The blacks have a different interest. 'No money, no dope.' 
I have the advantage. Most of us are first generation college students. It's hard when you always hear some igno­rant questions, for example, 'Why do all blacks have guns?'" black male, sopho­more. 
"From day to day it is a constant 
'damn, what do I have to go through today', but I like it here, and don't want to be anywhere else, most importantly it prepares me for the real world where some of the white people will be just as ignorant as some of the ones here. 
To make it through, you just have to accept it, deal with it, and live with it. I always have to remember to exercise self cQntrol, because once you lose it, then you lose the battle. Basically, sur­vive, and ultimately trust in God." (black female, Sophomore) 
To be continued. 
Cristiane Likely is a senior living in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin. helios. nd. edu 

• REFERMAT'S REALM 

Johnnie Cochran's false paradigm of racial justice 
N
ot long ago in parts of this country, whites were citizens (their clients) from the state's arbitrary and routinely acquitted of (or never charged with) improper use of its tremendous power. Many of these lynching blacks and black defendants were often con­defendants lack money and influence. Many of them victed of crimes they never committed. To say that the are not treated fairly by the system because they are tables have turned today is an understatement. minorities. And that's a crime in itself. Even with the Whatever else you hear about the jury's acquittal of American criminal justice system's many procedural O.J. Simpson (e.g., the inadequacy of D.N.A. evidence, safeguards and presumptions in favor of the accused, witness credibility, etc.), make too many poor, powerless non­no mistake: the verdict was all white defendants are betrayed by about race. Johnnie Cochran the very legal system which is long ago ensured that it would designed to protect their rights.be. But Simpson was never that type For a long time during the John of defendant. trial, I honestly believed that Despite his humble and impov­race, while an unavoidable Refermat erished beginnings, Orenthal backdrop of the case, would not James Simpson long ago stopped dlltermine. the outcome. Wrong. being a victim of a racist system, if While still lead counsel, Hobert ever he were. In many ways, Shapiro promised that the Simpson's rise to fame and for­
tune parallels the success of the Civil Rights movement in this country. As time passes, we look not to skin color, but to facts, reality and, as Rev. Martin Luther conspiracy like an old episode of "In the Heat of the Night.'' 
It's more than cynical; it's dangerous. On one level, it's very disturbing to think that Cochran convinced the jury to acquit his client by appealing to societal racism which--though a terrible reality--has nothing to do with Simpson's undisputed history of wife-beating or any of the other evidence. Cochran wanted the jury to contemplate "justice" on the macro level (e.g., the hor­rible history and reality of racism in this country), but he did it at the expense of justice in the individual case. Cochran shamelessly framed the issue as an even tradeoff: acquit Simpson and vindicate victims of racial discrimination. To put race above justice is an ugly, cynical temptation. 
But there's another level. How do black Americans feel about the defense's cynical manipulation of race in this particular case? Many of them doubtless can relate to the all-too-real spectre of racism among cops and elsewhere in the justice system. However, those same people should be disturbed that Cochran's bla­
tant appeals to race above evidence 

may undermine the credibility of King, Jr. hoped, to the "content" of needed, continuing etrorts for racial "character." Long before anyone ever 'Jf Mark Fuhrman had justice. heard of Simpson, many courageous never been born, this ochran's tactics are especially black Americans risked their success­Ctroubling because racial discrim­
case would still have 
ful careers--and lives--by confronting ination is still an intolerable reality racism in America: Jackie Hobinson; been about race.' in this country. However, as de jure Nat King Cole; Paul Robeson, Sidney discrimination ends and de facto Poitier; and Hank Aaron are but a few discrimination's pernicious effects 
examples. 

Simpson, on the other hand, embodied "commercial overexposure" while Shaquille O'Neal was still in dia­pers. As a pitch man for everything from orange juice to Hertz, Simpson benefited from fame, public affection and wealth as few others (of any race) have. Does Simpson's fame and fortune mean that he's not enti­tled to the best defense he can afford? Or that racism somehow no longer exists in this country? Of course not...but it is the height of cynicism to suggest that, after milking the system for all it's worth, Simpson is now (against all the evidence) the victim of a racist 
become more subtle, we need to refine our methods of combating racism accordingly. By incorporating honorable and respected symbols of the Civil Hights movement in his closing argument to the jury, Cochran characterized the acquittal of Simpson as an advance for racial justice. 
That was reckless and irresponsible, but it worked. Sadly, it may also set back race relations in this coun­try. 
John Refermat is a third year law student. He can be reached over e-mail at: John. T.Refermat.l @nd. edu 
--~---·-----------------~--~--~-------~----­

page 10 Wednesday, October 4, 1995
;ACCENT/ 

By LAUREN AIMONETTE 
Accent Literary Critic 
T
he newly released book, "Domers," is said to cap­ture the true experience of Notre Dame. "With great insight, 'Domers' tells what life is really like under the Golden Dome," claimed one reviewer. While that may be. there exists another book which better describes the mystery that is Notre Dame. "Doing the Truth in Love: Conversations about God, Relationships, and Service," by former Notre Dame theology professor Michael Himes, captures the true heart and soul of the Notre Dame community. For Himes does not describe what Notre Dame life "is," but what it aspires to be. 
In a book which discusses the 

L h-t .< th b t
.· aug·: er ts :r_e .es _· 

Moliere's The Imaginary Invalid opens The Mainstage Season at Washington Hall 
Accent Theatre Critic 
T
he Mainstage Season at Washington Hall opens tonight with a production of Moliere's hilarious comedy, "The Imaginary Invalid" directed by Father David Garrick. 
Moliere, in "The Imaginary Invalid," creates one of the most famous characters in theater history. Argan (played by Scott Paradine) is a hypochondriac and his legendary personality transcends the play. He sets the standards by which all other hypochondriacs will be measured. Argan relishes his condition. The greatest insult he can suffer is, "My, you're looking well." 
Obsessed with his maladies, Argan attempts to marry off his daughter to a doctor, but she, of course, has fallen in 1ove with someone else. The result is high comedy, sprinkled with farce and satirical jabs against the medical profession. Moliere's play was so effective in his day that no doctor would attend him when he became ill after a performance. 
There is a serious side to "The Imaginary Invalid." Moliere expresses his personal bias toward the com­placent medical profession of seventeenth-century Paris. He had a lifelong aversion to doctors and medi­cine. During the 1670's there were three schools of medical thought in Paris: the doctors who followed tra­ditional procedures, the doctors who accepted that the heart was a pump that circulated blood, and the doc­tors who thought that nature was the only reliable cure of any ailment. Moliere satirizes the traditionalists of medicine, sympathizes with the "circulators," and fully embraces the "naturalists." 
Garrick comments, "Today, Moliere's laughable tra­

N_otre Dame professor 
....-­


captures the true spirit of the university 
concept of conversation, based relationship of agapic love, and "the Truth," discussing the heavily upon several conversa­so as the action of service for basis of the truth of faith, the tions Himes participated in at the good of the_ other." With great difficulties and limitations Notre Dame. Himes in many that as the basis of the conver­of being human, and the con­ways speaks to the Notre Dame sation, Himes goes on to cept of community and our community. describe God as being more of a relationship to it. 
In the process. he actually verb than a noun. God is "the The second part moves the 
creates a conversational. rather doing, the loving," and the rest conversation to a discussion of 
than a didactic, text. Reading of the book probes more deeply "Doing," in other words, how 
the book is much like sitting into what exactly this means for our actions are affected by the 
down for a long talk with a us, discussing the experience of understanding of God as 
close friend. As in a verbal this mystery in our lives and the agapic. Offering solid advice on 
conversation, one is offered effects this mystery has on our discerning God's will for us, this 
fresh insights and a chance to "doing." section is a gold mine for any­
look at experiences and obser­In clear and concise language one who has ever attempted to 
vations through someone else's laced with a great sense of light figure out what his or her des­
eyes. humor, Himes brings up several tiny holds. 
Even more importantly. as in topics which might logically The third and fmal part of the 
a "talking" conversation, one result in a realization that our text discusses "in Love," the 
has the chance to talk back. perception of God cannot be process of making our 
Himes breaks up his topics into God. Falling into three basic understanding part of our lov­
short chapters which conclude categories of ideas (all which ing selves. In a cyclical style, 
with not only questions to an­appear in and amongst the this section helps the conversa­
swer and discuss, but also jour­other categories like the jumble tionalists to put what they dis­
nal reflections. He even offers of a "real" conversation), the covered about the "Truth" into 
a short list of other texts enti­topics are divided into eight growing closer to "Doing," both 
tled "Resources for Continuing chapters. actual actions of service and 
Conversations," so that his con­Each first presents Himes' the correlation of this doing 
versations, like "real" ones, do side of the conversation, and with the great "Doing," i.e. God. 
not end in themselves but stir then offers a reflection written If there existed a general syl­
the participants to pursue fur­by a member of Himes' person­labus for all Notre Dame stu­
ther issues. al conversational group, many dents, given to us during 
Opening with the provocative whom are well-known faces in Freshmen Orientation to be fin­
statement "Whatever comes the Notre Dame community. ished by graduation, I would 
into your head when someone The chapters conclude with a place Himes' "Doing the Truth 
says 'God' is not God," Himes chance for the reader to partic­in Love" at the top of the list. 
quickly sweeps the reader into ipate in the dialogue through If you read nothing else 
a profound questioning of what questions and suggestions for before you leave the land of the 
is the mystery of God and faith, reflection. Golden Dome, read at least a 
and how these mysteries relate Upon completing the book, it few chapters of "Doing the 
to one's life and purpose. "The becomes apparent how Himes Truth in Love." In less than 
least wrong way to think of came up with his striking title, one hundred and fifty pages, 
God," Himes contends, "is as "Doing the Truth in Love." The Himes captures the true mis­
pure and perfect self-gift, as the frrst part of the book deals with sion of Notre Dame. 
ditionalists may represent for us those members of any institution who are inclined to set tradition, intuition, and rules above reason, research, and persons." This critique can be applied to our present society-a soci­ety that seems forever split between conservatives and liberals. 
The play, according to Garrick, will be presented with a traditional approach to the material. The pro­duction will remain true to the seventeenth century except for a few anachronistic approaches to the lan­guage and the scenery in order to enhance the humor of the piece. The set consists of a series of handsome gold arches with burgundy curtains. There is a bar­ber's chair in the middle of the stage and several props which will be rolled in and out. The stage is faintly col­ored by slick paint streaks. The cast of twelve has been working hard for months and they are very excited to entertain the Notre Dame public. You have the oppor­tunity to catch the work of this classic playwright and his twentieth century prodigies through Sunday. 
T
he rest of the 199 5-1996 Mainstage Season at Washington Hall showcases a wide variety of styles and periods. 
In mid-November, the recent Broadway and interna­tional hit "Six Degrees of Separation" will be pre­sented. You may be familiar with the critically acclaimed film version from last year starring Will Smith. John Guare's bitter-sweet comedy was inspired by a 1983 news story about a con-artist who gained access to the homes of several wealthy Manhattan families by claiming to be the son of Sidney Poitier. He also claimed that he had just been mugged and needed a place to stay for the night. The play is about the dis-



d. .

me .1c1ne 

The Observer/ Brandon Candura Students rehearse for this week's production of "The Imaginary Invalid." 
connectedness that inhibits our ability to relate to even those closest to us. It addresses racial tensions, homo­phobia, conflicts between parents and their children and communication between husbands and wives. 
Making their third trip to Notre Dame, actors from the London Stage will perform "Macbeth" February 22-24. Five distinguished British actors will present a full-length "Macbeth" in which each actor will play several roles. The troupe's distinctive performance style not only illuminates the literature, but also the acting process itself. Audiences will see actors change characters right on stage. Last time they were here tickets sold out very quickly; don't be one of those who misses this. 
During a busy and stressful week, plays such as these can be a great escape. Why not take a two-hour study break and catch a classic-Moliere's "The Imaginary Invalid," for example-for less than the price of a movie ticket? Go, laugh, and be merry. 

-------------------~--------------------------~·--~------------------------------­

ACCENT

Wednesday, October 4, I995 page II 



ICE SHOW SIZZLES 
'

B~iaV\ BoitaV\o lights l,\p the ICe 

By KRISTA NANNERY Accent Editor 
A
fter football, ice skating is the number two spec­tator sport in America. That should make tonight's benefit performance, "Skate for Life," perf!lctly suited to the campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
As part of the ongoing Ara Parseghian Medical Hesearch Foundation's fund raising efforts, this !lvening's program at the JACC will feature such ice skating sensations as Brian Boitano, Debi Thomas and Kitty and Peter Carruthers. 
Proceeds, combined with those raised by earlier campus performances of the play "Coaches" and the 

By JOHN LUCAS Editor-in-Chief 
B
y the end of the 1994 Winter Games in Lillehammer, Norway, Brian Boitano had fallen apart. 
Bad knees, along with an assortment of other physi­cal ailments, caused the 1988 Olympic Figure Skating Gold medalist to finish a dismal sixth place behind a group of younger skaters. 
Critics began to question whether his age-he was 29 at the time-and his legs had finally caught up with him. 
But a funny thing happened when Boitano returned to the United States. 
After some time off, he regained both his health and his form. Career-wise, he was back in demand, and the popularity of figure skating skyrocketed, at least partially due to the exposure garnered by the Nancy Kerrigan-Tonya Harding saga. 
'"It was nice to skate and feel good again," he says of his recent "resurgence." "The sport itself had always been popular. But I don't think people ever talked about it with each other until after Tonya and Nancy. It made men, TV executives really, realize that there was a huge women's and men's audience out there (for skating), so they did more coverage." 
Now, he's busier than ever. 
"My schedule has gotten really hectic," he said. 
" ; . :. ~_Qpportunities to skate now, than were available even after-tJ;!Jl Olympics." 
But Boitano won't be \l.n the ice when the Winter Games are staged in Nagan'b-, -!_apan in 1998. He is currently ineligible to compete asa'J. ~~.at.e.ur under 
the complex rules that govern Olympic ea1gibiiity. . It's not a great loss, he says. Boitano wU turn. 31 ?n i ----Oct. 22. and he is skating better and enjoyng h1s s~mt 
on exhibition tour as much as any competitiv? skatmg he's done in the past. .. "The professional circuit is better talent-w:se. he 
I 
band Chicago, will aid doctors and scientists across the country in their attempt to find a cure for Niemann­Pick Type C disease. In order for all proceeds to benefit the foundation, the production costs of the event are being underwritten by such companies as American Airlines, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, McDonald's Corporation and "Blue and Gold Illustrated." 
Three of Parseghian's grandchildren, Michael, 8, Marcia, 6, and Christa, 4, have been diagnosed with Niemann-Pick Type C. It is a progressive, degenerative genetic disease which hinders the metabolism of cho­lesterol and is almost always fatal. At this time, there is no known treatment for the disease, although geneti­cists hope to isolate the defective gene within the next two years. 
Peter Carruthers, who along with his sister, Kitty, won the silver medal at the 1984 Olympic Winter Games in Sarajevo explained, "My wife is pregnant, in her fourth month, and children are about to enter into my life. With the Parseghian children, it's a situation where I'll do anything I can do to help the research. That's the bottom line. If we can raise money for scien­tists to eliminate this childhood disease, then I'm very satisfied. Life is very delicate. If I have the ability to skate and raise money, then that's a very easy exchange." 
The Carruthers' Olympic medal was the first medal won by a U.S. pair in 32 years. They came out of retirement to perform in "Skate for Life." 
They're not the only ones to take time out of a busy schedule for a good cause. Debi Thomas. perhaps best remembered for her 1988 Olympic bronze medal. is in her third year of medical school at Northwestern University where she hopes to specialize in surgery. She is also considering NASA's astronaut training pro­grams. 
"All of these men and women are extraordinary ath­letes, performers and competitors," said Parseghian. "I know this evening will long be remembered, as will the generosity of these great skaters. With their help, we can bring the Foundation's efforts ever-closer to our goal." 
Other skaters performing tonight include: Rosalynn Sumners, Caryn Kadavy, Rory Flack Burghart and Aren Nielsen. Most have worked and skated together in the past and all are well-known in their field. 
During a relaxed practice session Monday afternoon, 
U.S. National bronze medalist and Pro-Am champion Caryn Kadavy noted, "It's a matter of doing it for the Parsehgian Foundation which is a really great cause. I really believe in that. And these are wonderful people 
Even so, the amateur scene is still the jumping-off point for most of the young skaters in the world. 
"You need amateur medals to become a sucessful professional," he says. "When you win an Olympic medal, it puts you on the 'A-list' of skaters, but there aren't very many jobs out there for 'B' or 'C' skaters." 
Boitano is still an "A-list" skater, and he wants fans to know they won't be seeing "Boitano-lite," just because they're attending a non-competitive event. Regardless of the type of show, he's skating at a com­petitive level every night, he says. Health-wise, he hasn't suffered any physical setbacks, either. 
"I never wanted to scale down," he says. "I always want people to see my skating in a good light. I don't want people walking away saying 'Wow, he's not very good today."' 
Above all, performing for benefits and causes, like tonight's "Skate For Life" show, has been a fulfilling way for him to maintain his skills. 
"I enjoy doing more obscure benefits," he says on how he became involved with the Parseghian Foundation. "Doing work for cancer, heart disease, or AIDS is a great idea, but sometimes with the more obscure diseases, its hard to get people to commit themselves." 
Even with his recent spate of skating success. Boitano realizes that his time at center ice might be limited to a few more years. 
But he plans on staying in the sport as long as possi­ble, working as a show producer or choreographer. He recently produced and starred in an new television special with Oksana Baiul. "A Skating Romance" will appear on the USA Network later this month. 
Still, the constant traveling and hectic schedule makes it tough to enjoy the lifestyle sometimes. 
"It's a horrible schedule and I haven't had a vacation in two years, but how can you complain about a job like this," he laughs. "I want to keep skating until my heart goes out of it. After that, I want to get involved in the creative aspect of skating-it's fun to create." 

~----------------------------------------~ 
to work with." Last season, Kadavy toured with Nancy Kerrigan's "Christmas on Ice." 
"Skate for Life" features 1988 Olympic Gold Medal Winner Brian Boitano. Boitano's busy schedule has him traveling the country 10 months a year; part of 1995 has already been spent touring with Campbell's Soups Tour of World Figure Skating Champions. Not _only will he star in the USA Network production "A Skating Romance," but he's producing it as well. 1994 Olympic Gold Medalist Oksana Baiul will be his co-star. 
This is the first time so many big-name ice skaters have performed in South Bend. Hopefully, it won't be the last. But whatever the case, cold as the ice may be, this performance certainly promises to be hot, hot, hot! 
Ashleigh Thompson contributed to this article. 



.... 
page 12 Wednesday, October 4, 1995 
ACCENT 
THE NoTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY's 
LITERARY VOICE 

I I I
The 
T
By MEGHAN KUNKEL basis, with poetry, short fiction, and Accent Writer slides of artwork welcomed continually. Entries should be brought to 356 he Juggler has become representa­O'Shaughnessy and placed in the spe­tive of the elusive enterprise of cially labeled Juggler box. Selections artistic endeavor on the Notre are made through an anonymous Dame campus. A random poll of stu­process, with submissions judged along­dents revealed a shocking unfamiliarity side nameless others by the entire staff. with this esteemed publication. Selection is based upon literary merit, 

Maybe it is that crazy name that aesthetic quality, and originality. throws everyone off. The staff of the Clearly personal preference and publication offered a number of insights discernment hold the most influence into the magazine's curious title: although the members insist upon main­"Juggler means orange!"; "Juggler is taining a comfortable balance between found in the smiles of children on differing styles and media. Christmas." Enlightening, but what's in The selection process is highly com­a name anyway? petitive and rigorous. According to enjoys reading and writing and that pation of campus artists to promote a 
The Juggler, one of several literary Bobby Pacheco, a junior ALPP student, working for The Juggler indulges her broad variety of material. In consider­magazines produced on campus, is a Professor Kevin di Camillo initiated a interest in a particular way. "Writing is ing the perplexing title of this publica­forum for artistic expression comprised new poetry journal called The something that takes inspiration and tion, one can see The Juggler as a refer­of illustrative and literary submissions Rhubarbarian so that more students time, but reading is something that you ence to the classic literary char.acter of from undergraduate students, graduate could see their work in print. In its inau­can do anytime. It is intriguing to read the court jester. In this analogy, we students, and faculty. The publication gural issue last spring, The other people's work, and it gives me come closest to the true nature of the claims a thirteen-person staff, selected Rhubarbarian specifically stated that its some inspiration to write my own," she publication.by an application process with priority intent is not to compete with The said. The Juggler is a source of enter­
placed on representing a large spectrum Juggler but to complement the maga­To a certain extent, it seems this tainment, highlighting the backgroundof interests. zine. group appreciates their relative of campus existence with its wealth of .Althou.gh, it is made up of mostly A strong affection for literature and anonymity -presumably under the pre­self-expression. hut perhaps. not sophomores and juniors, there are posi­the written word seems to spur the text that it protects the authenticity of equipped, or willing to endure the 
tions for seniors and freshmen as welL members of The Juggler editorial staff. their work. There is something in the impending artistic sacrifice of wide­The Juggler is distributed once a semes­Bill Helman, assistant editor, expressed seclusion of a small community that spread acceptance. ter, with copies available in an avid interest in the field; he founded adds a special value to the product that If you would like further information O'Shaughnessy right before final exam a similar literary publication in high would be immeasureably lost with a concerning the publication, please con­time. school. Michelle Mudry, a veteran staff greater visibility. However, they cer­tact the editor, Jessica Szczepaniak­Submissions are accepted on a rolling member of two years, admits that she tainly encourage and invite the partici-Gillece. 
• • .aV\d 
himes 
and Jean Powers-processed sor Dr. Max Westler works thumbs up or down to a piece: approximately forty pieces of closely with the co-editors to "When we read stories .... we all student writing and artwork in offer advice, publishing assis­discuss (them) by committee. three to four weeks using a sys­tance, and evaluations of stu­It's a mutual agreement." tem that sounded good at the dent work. The Chimes staff and the time: "We just took everything Revised procedures for the English department work that we had, put them in a big 1996 edition include a comput­together in order to provide envelope in LeMans, and tried erized staff list and instruction­Saint Mary's students with to get everybody over there to al binders for editors. In addi­ample opportunities to submit read them," Dasso says. tion, the literary magazine that art and written work. Students 
Literary semi-chaos ensued. has been a part of Saint Mary's may turn in submissions to any "It was kind of discouraging," almost since the school itself English professor. to the Dasso admits, "especially since began has hit the Internet: stu­English office in Madeleva, or to it was my first year (as co-edi­dents who indicated interest in the Chimes co-editors. tor)." joining the staff of Chimes at Organizational binders, e­
Not one to throw in the edito­SMC's Activities Night found mail lists, drop-off points ... the rial towel, Dasso, together with welcoming notes in their e-mail body of Chimes is orchestrated 1996 Chimes co-editor ·Leslie boxes last week. from these to form a snapshot Seymour, are determined to As the 1995 Chimes heads to of the hearts and minds of Saint avoid finals-week attempts to student's post office boxes, the Mary's students. Its soul is the turn out the next magazine. 1996 issue is already well students, who not only write "We're hoping that by starting underway. but organize and edit the maga­earlier, we can avoid a lot of Chimes is currently accepting zine. last-minute stress," says Dasso. creative output from the Besides soliciting that myth 
By MARY BETH ELLIS Dasso, the co-editor of SMC's The early start began Monday, women of Saint Mary's; past you wrote for · •'-Accenr Writer literary magazine says of the September 18, when Dasso and submissions have been born in sketch_.,g):.-Aaggar you have yet-to-be-distributed 1995 issue Seymour met for the first time class assignments or pulled sqt~.i.'"reled away, Dasso and of Chimes. "We did not start with new and old staff mem­from W portfolios. Besides the
I
t was probably while sitting _;:eymour are also continuing to 
in LeMans late last spring selecting stories until about bers to mobilize their troops for usual prose-and-poetry liter~trf welcome new staff members. and wading through an April and (the magazine) didn't the latest issue. magazine format, the e1.torial Whether a student adds a con­epvelope .f1,1ll of student submis­come out until graduation Dasso and Seymour aren't staff also accepts artw~k. tribution of her own or helps to 
alone, however, in their
sions when Saint Mary's senior week." Each submission trL:himes is edit another's, Chimes is pr~
attempts to make Chimes ring placed before tte editorial
Alison Dasso realized that The Chimes editorial vides a positive outle~ for the
better than ever with the public board for review 
Chimes needed a tune-up. hoard-four Saint Mary's stu­Dasso stress­creative energy of Saint Mary's
this year. Chimes faculty advi­
"Last year was really crazy," dents and then-editors Dasso es that no one Person gives the women. 



Wednesday, October 4, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Michigan's Dreisbach awaits sentence for fraudulence 
Associated Press was ticketed May 25 by the nal misdemeanor. He is to be The Michigan Daily. ty. Washtenaw County Sheriff's sentenced Oct. 20 in 15th "We didn't think we could The attempt charge is a mis­
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 

office near a party store, said District Court. prove that he actually used the demeanor carry a prison term Michigan quarterback Scott Joe Burke, Washtenaw County Said Bruce Madej, assistant ID to make the purchase," he if up to 45 days, and/or a $50 Dreisbach is awaiting sentenc­
chief assistant prosecutor who athletic director: "It's an inter­said. fine. 
ing to a charge of attempting to 
confirmed a story Tuesday in nal matter. It's been handled." The prosecutor's office decid­Dreisbach started the first buy alcohol with false identifi­
The Michigan Daily, the The original charge was ed to charge Dreisbach for four games for the No. 7 
cation, the prosecutor's office 
school's student newspaper. "fraudulent use of identifi­attempted use of a fraudulent Wolverines (5-0), but he is ex­sttid Tuesday. 
Dreisbach was arraigned in cation to purchase alcohol and ID instead of a minor in posses­pected to be out at least anoth­Dreisbach, 19, who played at 
August. On Sept. 13, Dreisbach we amended it to an attempt sion because the attempt er three weeks with a sprainedPenn High School in Indiana, 
pleaded no contest to the crimi-for that defense," Burke told charges carries a stiffer penal-thumb. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
HELP ME PLEASE I Need a ride to  Fall Break Plans? Sell me your stu­ $$ PLEASE HELP $$  STEPAN COURT TIME:  SENIORSIIIIIIISENIORSIIIIIIIIII  
NOTICES  University of Miami of Ohio Oct 13 Call Erin 1431  dent converted to GA tickets. Katie X4088  '94 NO ALUM NEEDS BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX  Any group requesting weekly court time at Stepan for basketball or vol­ WASHINGTON SUITCASE PARTYIIIII ALUMNI SENIOR  
CALL 516·326-2659  leyball must attend a meeting- CLUB-THURDAY OCTOBER 5,  
HAl HAl CUSHING AUD.  FOR RENT  NEEDED: 4 USC and 2 Navy GA tickets. Call at 273-6374  4 USC Tickets for Saie.Call 4-4831.  Thursday, Oct. 5 4pm-Montgomery Theatre  1995 Win Airfare, hotel accomada­tions, and game tickets to the Irish  
OCT5, 8PM  LaFortune  game In Seattlellll Raffle nckets-$5  
FREE  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  **********PLEASE HELP!********* ..  I would DIE 4 UW TIXI X4072  For more information call Student  SENIORSIIIIIIISENIORSIIIIIIIIIIII  
WRITING DEPT.  232-2595  'NEED 1 NAVY GAl'  Activities, 631-7308.  
SKETCH COMEDY  'CALL COLLEEN AT X2191'  Need 2 BC GA'sl Will trade 2 Navy  
41NFO  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  GA's. Ryan x-1382  OH LOOK I SEE A GOLDFISH II  May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be  
mmarlno@darwin.cc.nd.edu  Breakfast Inn has space available  NEED 4 WASH. TIX CALL X2855  adored, glorified, loved and pre­ 
for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ WHAT'S YOUR BEAVER DOING?  served throughout the world now  
The NO Entrepreneur Club Is look­ vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  CALIFORNIA GIRLS NEED  I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM  and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus  
Ing for someone to run an intern­ 30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 8­ 2 USC TICKETS  LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR  SEND IT IN  have mercy on us. St. Jude worker  
ship program, and someone to help  9487  GA'S OR STUDENT  USC STUDENT TICKETS.  of miracles pray for us. St. Jude  
with finances. Anyone interested  CALL X2089 ASK FOR PETE  If you have USC tix, call  helper of the hopeless pray for us.  
please leave a message with Tim  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Tom etx3893  Anthony-Lockdown is in full effect  
(114-1998).  HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  NEED 4 USC GAs Katie 4015  until further notice. Babe  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL  Finance Club Members ........ .  
UTILE FLOWER HOME DAY­ 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM  Need 2 USC GA's Will Pay For  NEED TICKETS FOR WASHING­ Thank you St.Jude for prayers  Informational Meeting on Trip to  
CARE. LOVING, STIMULATIVE  & ASK FOR SANDY.  Them Call Rusty x-0993  TON GAME, CALL KRISTINA @  answered.  NYC. Wednesday 7:00 In L059 of  
ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER, EDU·  (503)220-8958.  theCOBAIII  
CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS. LICENSED. 284-0708.  FOR SALE  $$$$$ NEED TWO USC STDT TIX. CALL JESSE 234-3952 $$$$  BRIAN BOITANO ... TONIGHTIIIIII Notre Dame Joyce Center,  llllllllll#####t#tttllll#tt##lltll#ll  
HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP!  7:30 PM TICKETS on sale at the  
ILOST & FOUND I  Tired of the cluster? Gateway 2000 DOSIWindows PC, some software, draft printer $575. x1-7638.  I need tickets for BC, USC, and Navy. Please call Bryan. 272-4249  I NEED USC AND BC TIX as many as possible, students or GAs  Notre Dame Box Office up to show timelllllllllll  hey cuddly Quotes from OSU- 
please call NORM @ 232-2955  23rd ANNUAL SMC-ND  -There Is some major tuffness  
REWARD: for black book bag  1@11$11"%'"&%11@ @II$$%  USC std tx 4 sale 113959  ThanksforyourSupportl  SUMMER PROGRAMS IN  going on in this bar.  
taken from SOH during the week­ LONDON (MAY 22· JUNE 24)  -Do you know why they have a nut  
end. Reward more than worth of  If you like BASS, you'll like this  Need 2 Navy GAs  and ROME (JUNE 16· JULY 15).  as their mascot? ... because they  
books. I need my notes back.  Call Frank at x3389  Need Tickets For Army.  TRAVEL IN IRELAND, SCOT, FR,  have no balls of their own.  
Matt x1655  150 watt 15"  Call Jay at 4-1787.  GER. SWITZ, AND ITALY.  -Look, the shampoo Is sealed for  
SUBWOOFER  COURSES IN PHOTO, BIO, BUEC,  my protection!  
FOUND: gold ring with features. In  NEED USC GA's  I have the USC tickets you need.  HIST, ITALIAN AND SOC.  -Why do you guys keep requesting  
parking lot next to Infirmary  Call4-1668  x4233 Tara  call Gretchen@ 284-5166 with your  MEETING-CARROLL HALL  'Oh What a Night'?  
between Stanford and St. Michaels  offer.  (SMC) OCT 3, 7:00 PM.  -Senior class trip-full hook-ups  
Laundry. Last week In August. Call  #@$%&"'(()"&"%#$#$  NEED USC TICKETSII  FACULTY, STUDENTS, PIZZA,  available.  
x4205 to descrjbe and.claim.  ...---------~-··  ·J you have any stud. tix, or slud­ sale-tix book(BC,USC,Navy)  ETC. INFO-CALL PROF. A.  -And of course ... "Toucft me, touch  
1993 Tercel, 2 door, stick, AC,  ge's call Todd or Mike at x1201.  Sr.Sec.Best offer. 284-5231  BLACK, 284-4460 OR 272-3726  me now!"  
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION GLASS­ AMIFM tape, 24,000 miles.  -Thanks Katie, Bridget, Kroggel,  
ES IN ST. MICHAEL'S LAUNDRY  $8,600.00 Call287-0146  TRADE: I have 2 USC and 2 Navy  WILL TRADE CHGO BEAR, CHGO  Renee, Rachel and Anne Marie for  
DISTRIBUTION CENTER.  GA's. Will trade for 1 or 2 BC tick­ BULL, CHGO SYMPHONY, OR  We've got to be able to get some  a great trip. Thanks to Murphy and  
CLAIM BETWEEN 8 AM & 4:30 PM  1987 Mercury-Sable  ets, either student or GA.  LYRIC OPERA TIX FOR GA USC  kind of a reading on that shield,  Keenan for providing the tuffnessl  
MON-FRI.  G/Condl $2500 olb  Call Eric @ 273-5073  OR BC TIX. 708-330-3155  up or down. Well, how could they  
2n-3254 Urnes  be jamming us if they don't know if  
LOST: Gold necklace with a  NEEDED! USC or BC STU. TIX  "need 5 navy GA's**  we're coming ...  Hey D. Can't I go to a PW function  
round, multi-colored glass pendant.  Spring Break Bahamas Party  Please call Justin@x1811  Please call Kristy at x2270  Break off the attack! The shield Is  without you throwing up In the  
Please cell Uyen @  Cruisei Early Specials! 7 Days  still up.  lounge. I had to get my loafers  
273-3174  $279ilncludes 15 Meals & 6  Need 4 USC GAs  NO ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ I get no reading. Are you sure?  cleaned professionally and I'm  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlifel  Call Chad at X3384  ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 28. CALL  Pull upl All craft pull up!  sending you the bill.  
WANTED  Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ NEED BCTKT  COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­NYMIKE@AOL.COM  Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close  -Cousin Walter  
6386  WILL TRADE USC TKT  to holding sector MV-7.  Brian Anderson may be 21, but he  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­ OR PAY$$$  $ $ Need So.Cal nckets  Admiral, we have enemy ships In  still smells like shoe polish.  
Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  Spring Breakl Panama City! Early  CALL KELLI X4044  Call (717)961-3708  sector 47.  
Eam up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  It's a trap!  O.K. I did lt...but it was an accident.  
month. Room and Board I  With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  USCGA's  BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 2  -O.J.  
Transportation! Male or Female. No  Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach  Best offer x2450  ALUMNI CHILDREN DURING THE  
experience necessary. Call  Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21  USC GAME. ALSO NNED USC  A DISCUSSION  Now I'm free to go on that cruise I  
(206)545-4155 ext A55841  & 12/151 1-800-678-6386  BC  BC  BC  BC  BC  TICKETS. PLEASE PAGE ME AT  with  booked with Kathy Lee.  
1-800-946-4646, PIN#5295353  FR. TED HESBURGH, CSC  -Judge Ito  
' ' ' FREE TRIPS & CASH ' ' ' Find out how hundreds of students  TICKETS  Be GAs needed badly call Maureen at 284-5271  HELP! HELP! HELP! Alumnus des­ Wed. Oct. 4, 7:30 pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel  Congratulations! 1 0/2/95: The big  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  perately needs 5 USC tix. Please  ALL WELCOME!  Winoskl makes the Wall of Flame.  
and LOTS OF CASH with  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  BC  BC  BC  BG  BC  call 215-988-1788 day, or 215-836­ sponsored by 4th Day  
America's 111 Spring Break compa­ GA'S TO ANY/ALL  9150 home.  Springfield: the great vocalist of our  
ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  Need USC stud. tix Call Doug  age, not a hometown.  
Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  219-232-0061, 24 HAS.  x1835  HAVE 88 ARMY TICKS 4 SALE AT  #11111111111111#111111111111111111111111  
Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  COST! CALL ERIK X3580  St. Edward's Hall Players  Hey Lance-Uno Mas Anos­ 
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ I NEED BC & USC GA'S  are holding  Hopefully there will be some major  
EL (800)95-BREAKI  TICKET-MART, INC.  CALL 288-2877  I need 2 BC ga's. Ryan@273-4791  OPEN AUDITIONS  changes In the old club by then.  
WANTED  For their production of  
I need a ride to the Chicago sub­ GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  " I Have 2 GA's for USC"  Need USC GA's. Will Pay$$ or  One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest  It always seems like I'm coming up  
urbs Oct.6-can you help? call Leah  HOME/AWAY NO GAMES.  Call Tom @ 273-9249 and  Have Navy GA's to Trade. Call Erin  Wed.-Thurs. 8-10 p.m.  two or three beads short.  
x3735  BUY'SELL'TRADE  leave your BEST offer  at 114021  @ 127 Nieuwland  
(219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  Call Colin @ x1567 w/ questions  Scull- 
Eam $2500 & Free Spring Break  Wanted: 5 tickets to the Navy  Need two BC tickets ­Student or  11##1111##1111########11##11#  ! hope you find your fruitful acre.  
Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  game. Either GA's or Students. Am  GA -Call John at X1694  
Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun,  GAMES.272-6306  williing to pay $$$$. Call Brian at  Hey McGriff,  
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break  x3061.  NEEDED: 2 USC tickets (GA)  Dante, Crack, Shimmy, & Flag Boy  Sorry I forgot you last week.  
Travell1-800-678-6386  Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs.  Call Liz at 4-2355  Thanks for a great weekendll  
Please call Cheryl x4883  Need one GA for Boston College.  love Hitch & Mr. Bear  Kiddo,  
Seeking In home child care for an  Willing to pay $$$$$$. Call Julie at  Have 1 USC GA, willing to trade for  Good thing for the mailman, as  
a~orable baby." 1-4 dayslwk  Wanted: 4 tickets together -any  284-5170.  1 BC GA. Call Doug (413)592-0215  The Days of Our Lives  you can see I finally found him.  
M-Th. 631-6561.  home game Wanted: 2 tickets NO­ Correspondents are still looking for  Erin Is going to be great, I did the  
HELP WANTED  USC Call 1-800-922-BEAR day 1-502-354-8826 collect In evening  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  PERSONAL  more soap opera update people. if you want to see your byline in The  candle thing. -An llinois Farmer  
1Q-30 hrs./llex. sched.  Need 1 USC Ticket Student or  Observer, call 634-4220 and ask for  
All majorslschol. avail.  Need 1-2 tlx to SC game.  GA. Call Anne  x4896.  1  000 THE COPY SHOP  000  Erin and Christina. Please be ready  Nelanie,  
$1 0.25 /282-2357  Mel x1286  LaFortune Student Center  to write 200 words a weeki  She that is the cutest thing In the  
CA family needs 3 BC GAs.  We're open for your conveniencelll  world. Hope you have fun In Offut,  
HELP WANTED addressing  NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A.  Please!  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  1@$$%"&'&"%$11111@4  we're all thinking about you.  
envelopes. Work at your residence  Please call Anne 634-3445.  Call Clara  x4826  Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm  ---AAAMtg  -0  
In your spare lime. $250+/week  Sat.: Noon-6:00pm  This Wednesday: 1 0/4  
possible! (31 0)804-5587 24 hrs.  ""Need 2 B.C. GA's""  Sun.: Noon -Midnight  9:30pm  
Call Kristin @23n  (closed home football Saturdays)  Faculty iounge-Hesburgh Library  good luck this weekend, bickel.  
$35,000/YR. INCOME potential.  ---AAA Mig ---­ watch out for that bow at the end,  
Reading books. Toll Free 800-898­ NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE  *" SMC Women are also wel­ you don't want to lose anything.  
9n8 Ext. R-2013 for details.  TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE  I NEED TICKETS FOR THE  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  comeil-stop by at least once  
OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE  WASHINGTON GAME.  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII  I@ #%$"'&&"("(&"'$0/cl'@ 1$  ...2 days and counting.  
$40,000/YR. INCOME potential.  X4905  CALL CHRIS 4-4204  THE COPY SHOP  
Home typists/PC users. Toll Free  LaFortune Student Center  tests, shmests ---let's just bolt and  
800-898-9778 Ext. T-2013 for list­ .HELP!Need USC tickets,wlli pay  Phone 631-COPY  Happy19th Birthday Laura! Love,  leave for Texas right now.  
Ings.  lots,call Michelle,634-2497  0o0o0a0o0o0a0o0o0o0o0  4th floor Farley  

page 14  The Observer • SPORTS  Wednesday, October 4, 1995  
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL  
Griffey's homers not  Indians continue flair for dramatic  

By CHUCK MELVIN 
Associated Press 


enough in 9-6 defeat 

CLEVELAND The Cleveland Indians carried 
By BEN WALKER Seattle scored twice in the Associated Press ninth off John Wetteland 

their flair for the dramatic to before he retired Jay Buhner the extreme Tuesday night, NEW YORK and Mike Blowers with two winning their first postseason Don Mattingly and the New runners on base to end the game in 41 years on Tony York Yankees would not be game. Pena's ·homer with two outs in 
denied, despite the greatness of Griffey highlighted Seattle's the 13th inning, beating Boston Ken Griffey Jr. first postseason game with a 5-4. The wild-card Yankees over­solo homer off the upper-deck 
Pena, who spent four years 
came Griffey's two home runs facade in the fourth inning and 

with the Red Sox from 1990-93, 
and beat the Seattle Mariners a long, two-run homer in sev­

drove a 3-0 pitch from Zane
9-6 Tuesday night in their AL enth that tied it 4-4. 

Smith just over the bleacher
playoff opener. His performance was remi­
railing in left field. 
A standing, stomping crowd niscent of George Brett's three 

It ended the longest night
of 57,178, the largest at home runs at Yankee Stadium Yankee Stadium since it was for Kansas City in a 6-5 loss to game in postseason history. remodeled for the 1976 season, New York in Game 3 of the Three previous night games 
saw David C:one pitch New 1978 AL playoffs. \'ork to a 1-{) lead in the· best­Still, it was not enough to of-5 series. stop the Yankees in their 35th 
Mattingly, playing in the year of postseason play, most postseason for the first time in in the majors, and first since his 14-year career, delivered 1981. New York broke the 4-4 an RBI single and a double. tie in the seventh against loser Playoff veterans Wade Boggs Jeff Nelson and two other 
and Ruben Sierra both home­relievers, keyed by Williams' red and Bernie Williams dou­RBI double and Sierra's two­bled home the go-ahead run run homer. Williams singled during a four-run seventh in­home another run in the eighth ning that made it 8-4. with his third hit. 
Griffey went 3-for-5, drove in Cone, 9-2 since the Yankees three runs and scored three got him from Toronto, pitched times for the Mariners, who eight innings and allowed four arrived at their New York hotel runs and six hits. shortly before 4 a.m. EDT Rookie Andy Pettitte will Tuesday. pitch for the Yankees against 
They were delayed because Andy Benes in Game 2 of Monday's playoff win over Wednesday night in New York. California at the Kingdome, a victory that meant ace Randy Randy Velarde was hit by a Johnson will not be able to face pitch from Nelson to start the the Yankees until Game 3 at seventh and Boggs, out of the earliest. action since leaving last 
Wednesday's game with a sore 
left hamstring, singled off 
Bobby Ayala for his third hit. · Williams followed with a continued from page 20 drive that turned around 
Griffey in center field and two eight person boats (finish­hopped off the wall for a dou­ing 6th and 7th). The women ble that made it 5-4. 

Club 

went 12 innings; the Mets and Astros played a 16-inning day game in the 1986 NLCS. 
It was the lOth time this sea­son that the Indians ended a game with a home run. The Indians were 13-0 in extra innings this season, and this latest victory gave them a 1-0 lead in the best-of-5 series. 
Pena, who had only five homers in the regular season, ended the game just after 2 
a.m. local time -but most of the nation didn't see it. The Baseball Network.did not show the game in the majority of the country, although it was tele­vised in Cleveland and New England. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
put two four person boats in the water as well, fmishing 9th and 11th, respectively 
The Irish soundly defeated Georgetown and North Car­olina along with other strong performances against the Naval Academy, George Wash­ington, and Virginia. 
"We didn't know what to ex­pect going out east," team president Burke Montgomery said. "The competition is great out there. Our performance has brought our team a lot of encouragement for the rest of the season." 
Irish Crew heads to Rockford this weekend for the Head of the Rock Tournament to com­pf,lte against Wisconsin, Michi­gan, and Northwestern. 

Tuesday, october 3 at 4:15 Wednesday, october 4 at 6:00 Thursday, October 5 at 4:15 
wrestling Room in JACC Located in Gym Near Recsports Office 





The Observer 
is hosting: 

The Observer Writing Workshop 

Wednesday, OctohP .... ~ -\ d.in the Fos' Ce1 e ..me. All n ca~ voserver News and Accent writers welcome. 
Boston lost its 11th consecu­The Indians scarcely touched tive postseason game dating Boston starter Roger Clemens back to Bill Buckner's infamous through the first five innings, error in the 1986 World Series. and Clemens, who lasted seven The Red Sox were swept by innings, might have stayed Oakland in the ALCS in 1988 longer but for a 23-minute rain and '90. delay that interrupted the game 
The game went to extra in the eighth. innings tied at 3, and the teams Clemens had been miserable traded solo home runs in the in his two previous starts at 11th inning to extend it again. Jacobs Field, going 0-2 with an Boston's Tim Naehring home­8.25 ERA. His only loss over his red off Jim Poole in the top last 11 starts this year came in half, and the Indians tied it in Cleveland on Sept. 16. the bottom half on Albert Belle's leadoff homer against These were the playoffs, Rick Aguilera. though, and Clemens looked 
pumped. Throwing fastballs 

The plot thickened when the clocked occasionally in the mid-Red Sox had the umpire confis­90s, he retired Cleveland's first cate Belle's bat; Belle was sus­nine batters routinely before pended for seven games last Kenny Lofton singled to right year for using a corked bat on the first pitch of the fourth against the Chicago White Sox. inning. 
Belle, who led the majors with By then, Valentin had put the 50 home runs this year, flexed Red Sox ahead 2-0 with his his biceps muscle and pointed two-out homer to right in the to it angrily after the Red Sox third inning. had his bat taken away. Valentin hit 27 homers during 
Boston's four runs all came on the regular season, ranking home runs, including John second on the Red Sox to Mo Valentin's two-run shot in the Vaughn's 39. third, Luis Alicea's solo homer in the eighth and Naehring's in Cleveland starter Dennis the 11th. Martinez lasted six innings, 
Alicea's homer was the third allowing two runs and five hits, of his four hits, and it erased walking none and striking out the 3-2 lead the Indians had two. Clemens went seven taken in the sixth on Belle's innings, giving up three runs two-run double and a single by and five hits, walking one and Eddie Murray. striking out five. 
T H E M u s c 
\\~ ~\. 

t\~::v. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM-SOUTH BEND 
October 1 0-11, 1995 

Tuesday & Wednesday 7:30 p.m. EST 
Tickets $12.50 to $39.50 
Call 219-235-9190 

Box Office open Monday through Friday 10 a.m. -5 p.m. 
VISA, MasterCard, American Express Accepted 
Group & Student Discounts Available 

A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
_ 

__...... 
Wednesday, October 4, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
... 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Reds deliver quick Jones' two hoiDers pace Braves 
ByJOHN MOSSMAN 

BASEBALL PLAYOFF BRACKET
Associated Press 


message with 7-2 win 
DIVISION SERIES LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP 
ByJOHN NADEL 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

The Cincinnati Reds sent a quick message Tuesday night -their shaky play during the season's final month, especially on natural grass, meant noth­ing. 
The Heds scored four runs in the first inning on a two-run double by Hal Morris and a two-run homer by Benito Santiago and beat the Los An­geles Dodgers 7-2 in the opener of their NL playoff series. 
Cincinnati had lost 10 in a row on grass and 18 of its last 31 overall during the regular season, but the four-run rally with two outs in the first and the pitching of Pete Schourek made those factors moot. 
Schourek, 2-0 with a 1.13 EHA against the Dodgers this season, allowed only five hits in seven innings, walking three and striking out five in his first career postseason game. 
He allowed only three baserunners in the first four innings and was pitching with a 7-0 lead when he finally al­lowed a run in the sixth. 
The game was played before a paid crowd of 44,199 -well below a sellout. They didn't have much to cheer about by the time the Dodgers came to bat in the first. 
Ramon Martinez allowed one­out singles to Barry Larkin and Hon Gant to put runners on the corners before getting Reggie s·anders on a.-'oul popup. Morris then sliced a 1-2 pitch into the left-center gap and Santiago followed by hitting a 2-1 pitch into the left field seats. 
Just like that, it was 4-0, and the Reds had all the runs they would need. 
The Reds extended their lead to 7-0 in the fifth. Sanders dou­bled, took third on a single by Morris -his third hit -and scored on a sacrifice fly by Santiago. Bret Boone followed with a double to knock out Martinez and Jeff Branson greeted reliever John Cum­mings with a two-run double. 
Martinez allowed 10 hits and seven runs, all earned, while walking two and striking out three in 4 1-3 innings. He was appearing in a postseason game for the first time, too, but he wasn't as fortunate as Schourek. 
He had his personal six-game winning streak against Cincinnati snapped, and his 10 victories in his last 11 decisions meant as little as the Reds' 10­game losing streak on grass. 
After the Dodgers scored in their half of the fifth on Brett Butler's single, Schourek induced Chad Fonville to hit into a double play that ended the inning. Mike Piazza led otT the sixth with a homer into the right-center seats to make it 7­2. 
Mike Jackson pitched a scoreless eighth for Cincinnati, getting out of a two-on, none­out jam, and Jeff Brantley pitched the ninth. 
John Smiley (12-5, 3.46 ERA) will pitch for the Reds against lsmael Valdes (13-11, 3.05 ERA) on Wednesday in Game 2 of the best..of-5 series at Dodger Stadium. The series then moves to the artificial sur­face of Riverfront Stadium for Game 3 on Friday night and Games 4 and 5, if necessary. 
DENVER 
Greg Maddux wasn't at his masterful best. Chipper Jones, however, was. 
As for Don Baylor, the Colorado manager ran out of position players with two outs in the ninth and the bases loaded. 
The result was a 5-4 victory by the Atlanta Braves on Tuesday night in the opener of their NL playoff series, the first postseason game in Rockies history. 
Jones' second solo homer broke a 4-4 tie in the ninth to win it for Atlanta. But the Braves had to sweat out this victory when the Rockies loaded the bases with one out in the bottom of the inning. 
Closer Mark Wohlers retired the first batter, then gave up back-to-hack singles to Mike Kingery and Bichette. Wohlers walked Larry Walker to fill the bases and fanned Andres Galarraga. 
Baylor, who had played all five of his substitutes, was forced to pinch-hit Lance Painter, one of 12 pitchers on the Colorado roster and the starter for Game 2 on Wednes­day night. He struck out as well, and the Braves made their great escape. 
With two outs in the top of the ninth, Jones homered to right-center otT Rockies closer Curtis Leskanic. Jones also homered in the sixth during a rally that produced a 3-3 tie. 
Dwight Smith's two-out, pinch-hit single in the eighth gave the Braves a 4-3 lead, but Colorado countered on Ellis Burks' RBI double in their half. 
Rockies reliever Mike Munoz retired the first two batters in the eighth but surrendered a 
7~~fJ/8~ri~~ 






CAREER DAY 1995 
Friday, October 6 

10:00 am --4:00 pm Atrium of the College of Business Administration Building Complex 

Get a head start on your future! 
Please pick up a brochure in the College of Business Administration Building Complex for session times and company listings. 
(best-of-5) SERIES (best-of-7) Oct. 3-8 Oct.10-18 
CLEVELAND :------. 
INDIANS CLEVELAND -~ INDIANS (1..:0)
BOSTON 
____,
RED SOX AMERICAN LEAGUE
SEATTLE MARINERS 
NEWYORK 
_j

YANKEES (HI)' NEWYORK 
;:.J~NKEES 
~; LA. 
tOOPGERS 
c__ INCINNATI .. __..~EDS (1..0) .
•...·.CINCINNATI 
REPS 
NATIONAL 


.ATLANTA LEAGUE _j'
BRAVES .._____,ATLANTA ~-!"''_COLORADO BRAVES (1..0) . 
WORLD SERIES 
(best-of-7)
Oct. 21·29 
l 

@' ROCKIES ·~---' 
~ 
. . . 
single to Ryan Klesko. Darren Holmes replaced Munoz and gave up a single to Javy Lopez. Smith, batting for JeiT Blauser, singled to right for a 4-3 lead. 
Dante Bichette drew a leadoff walk otT Greg McMichael in the Rockies half. Walker singled to right, with Bichette taking third on right fielder David Justice's bobble. 
Jones made a diving stop of Galarraga's shot down the third-base line and threw out Walker at second, with Bichette holding at third. Alejandro Pena then served up the RBI double to Burks. 
Maddux, the best pitcher in the majors with a 19-2 record and 1.63 ERA this season, wasn't masterful. But he was artful in in escaping repeated jams thanks to 14 groundouts, including four double plays. Maddux lasted seven innings, allowing nine hits and three runs. 
Colorado's Kevin Ritz nursed a 3-1 lead into the sixth, when the Braves scored twice to tie. 
Vinny Castilla, a former Braves prospect, hit a two-run homer for the Rockies, while Marquis Grissom and Jones had solo homers for the Braves. 
Maddux's best feat was escaping a bases-loaded, one­out predicament in the seventh. 
He got pinch-hitter John Vander Wal, who set a major league record with 28 pinch­hits this season, to bounce to the mound. Maddux threw home for one out, and Lopez's relay to first cut down Vander Wal. 
Grissom's two-out solo homer otT Ritz gave the Braves a 1-0 lead in the third. 
The Rockies countered with three runs in the fourth, high­lighted by Castilla's two-run homer. With one out, Walker walked and went to third on Galarraga's single that rico­cheted otT the walt in right-cen­ter. 
Burks then brought Walker home on a short sacrifice fly, with Walker beating Justice's high throw. 
Castilla, claimed by the Rockies in the 1992 expansion draft, hit a 428-foot drive to center for a 3-1 lead. 
Atlanta tied it in the sixth. Jones hit a leadoff homer. Justice walked with one out and Klesko singled to center, with Justice taking third when Burks bobbled the ball in the outfield. It was one of four Colorado errors but the only costly one. 
Steve Reed replaced Ritz, and pinch-hitter Luis Polonia hit a slow bouncer to third. 

The Pan-African Culture Center of The University of Notre Dame Presents: 
AN Afl2JCAN U2J~ AMb.RICAN Cb..LbbiZAlYJN 
You Missed The Show? See The Yuleo! 
The Pan~African Cultural Center presents The Prentiere Showins of thf' video d()(•umrntary and performance of last Spring's smash show with ... • Trinity, America'11 number one school of lriHh dance • Seamaain, Notre Dame's own lriah band • Djo-Gbe, a traotcuhural ancirnt African dance, with internationally recognized Muter African drummen and dancen • Thr Africa~ American Unity En&emble, affiliated with the American Conservatory of Muak,ChicaKo. Video by Wayne Harvey Productiolll!l. Presented as part of the multicultural fo~all Fe1th·al, in cooperation with the Multleultural Eueutlve CouneU and The Salon or Frlendohlp. 
7:30p.m. Wednesday, October 4, in Debartolo Rm. 102 
Tickets: $2.00 at the door--reception to follow 

-~----~-­

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 4, 1995 
·-
confident going out there with confidence," senior guard Ryan
•NBA Holtz 
Leahy commented. "We played pretty well at Ohio State. It

continued from page 20
Rodman faces challenge of 
just all boiled down to 

His fatigue has continued into turnovers. We know we're a the early part of this week, so good team. Now, we just have doctors have advised the 58 to go out and prove it." 

blending talents with Bull stars 
year-old Holtz to cut back on "We felt that against Ohio 
ByRICKGANO 
Associared Press 
CHICAGO 
Dennis Rodman's game is as unique as his personality and now he will have to blend those talents with two stars who were once bitter rivals, Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen. 
Rodman, the NBA's top r~bounder for the last four years, was voted he league's best defender in 1990 and 1991 and helped the Detroit Pistons win a pair of championships. 
Four straight times in the playoffs the Bulls and Pistons met in emotional and intense series and Rodman's aggressive defensive tactics often angered the Bulls. He was fined $5,000 after one game for flagrantly pushing Pippen, who required six stitches in his chin. 
Detroit won the first three postseason meetings before the Bulls finally broke through en route to their first of three straight titles. 
"I don't know if you can put him as the baddest of "The Bad Boys," Bulls coach Phil Jackson said. Bulls fans disliked center Bill Laimbeer just as much as they did Rodman. Now he'll be wearing a Chicago uniform, it appears. 
"Anybody who enjoys basket­ball and would say if there is a ballplayer who can rebound and defend in the league that could bring a certain status to the game, a certain amount of control from that position, 
Dennis  is  the  one  who's  
·changed the  course  of the  
game," Jackson said.  

"You see it in Michael on the offensive end, you see it in Scottie on the offensive end." 
Jackson consulted with Pippen and Jordan before de­ciding to go ahead and let gen­eral manager Jerry Krause trade with San Antonio for Rodman, whose career has been a troubled one on and off the court. Jackson said Rodman and Jordan had played some ball together in Los Angeles where Jordan has been shoot­ing a movie this summer. 
"I talked to our team leaders and they said this guy is one of the best players in the game, it would be tough not to go for him," said Jackson. The Bulls made the deal by giving up backup center Will Perdue. 
Another plus for the Bulls is that Rodman, who's averaged an incomparable 17.7 rebounds a game the last four seasons, doesn't need to shoot the ball to 



~--· 



be effective in an offense where Jordan, Pippen and Toni Kukoc do most of the scoring.' He can dominate a game with defense and rebounding. 
Last season he collected 20 or more rebounds in a game 20 times, including a season-high 30 against the Houston Rockets. Rodman, who aver­aged seven points during a tur­moil-filled season with the Spurs last year. said he can play with or against anyone. 
"I have no problem with any­body in the world. I can deal with anything," Rodman said in an interview with XTRA-AM. "Conflicts. It doesn't matter. The main thing you do on the basketball court is you commu­nicate in the basketball world. Once you're off the court, you go your own separate ways." 
But Rodman, who is set to make $2.5 million in the final year of a contract this season, said he isn't going to Chicago just to play with certain play­ers. And he's not crazy about 



~ 95 

Fr. Ted Hesbur h, 




C.S.C. 
Wednesday, October 4, 7:30pm Stanford Keenan Chapel 
Cancelled 
Sponsored by 4th Day 0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


SATURDAY, OCTOBER 7 
11:00 AM-STEPAN CENTER 
.  -,  3 & 6 MILE RUNS  
AND  
.  .  PANCAKE BREAKFAST  ,  .  
T-SHIRTS TO ALL FINISHERS  

REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS $5.00 IN ADVANCE & $6.00 DAY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 1-610 his schedule. For one thing, Holtz chose not to attend his weekly press conference, instead opting for defensive coordinator Bob Davie to do the talking. 

More telling is the fact that Holtz has only been attending roughly half of each Irish prac­tice. 
"Coach was out there for the second half of practice," punter Hunter Smith said. "He'd rather be at his best for half a practice and giving it his all." 
Cutting back on his activities will also allow Holtz to re-ener­gize himself for the long trip to Seattle. 
"He will definitely be making the trip to Seattle so he has been taking it easy this week," Smith explained. 
The other important thing that will be joining the team to Seattle is confidence. 
"I'd say we're definitely 
State we really did some pretty good things, although I know the fmal score was not indica­tive of that," defensive coordi­nator Bob Davie appraised. 
"So that's where we are right now, let us try to focus on the positives because the positives outweigh the negatives. I don't think there is any question about that." 
The question mark that does exist though is that of the injury bug. The latest victim is rush linebacker John McLaughlin. 
The sophomore injured him­self on a second half kickoff and is expected to miss up to four weeks. 
"One thing that is hurting us right now is John McLaughlin, who has become a really good pass rusher for us," Davie said. "When we went to the nickel, he and Kory Minor were both on the field at the same time." 

If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 
Would the woman~student who escaped from a would~be rapist in early September and was driven to Campus by a Good Samaritan, 
II ~ • -• -• , ' 

please contact detective Cindy Eastman of ~ the S.B.P.D. at 235~9263? Any information might be helpful such as date or location. 
A DISCUSSION 
WITH 

his contract, either. "Chicago is cold as hell. If I 
~ decide to ~o-there, it's not because of Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen or anything like that. That don't mean nothing. I don't bow down to any man, whoever they are or what stature they have," he said. 
--~--------~--~ 
----~------~ 
page 17 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 4, 1995 
.... 





Thomas Eckert 
Jaime Baca Huntington, IN 
Roy, NM BA Economics/Spanish 

BA International Relations/Spanish Universiry of Notre Dame, 1995 
Universiry of San Diego, 1986 
MA Educational Administration 
New Mexico State Universiry 
The Congregation of Holy Cross Welcomes The Members of its 1995-96 Candidate Class at 

Moreau Seminary 
... For information about the Holy Cross Candidate Program:
' 
Rev. John Conley, CSC Rev. Patrick Neary, CSC 
Vocation Directors Moreau Semdnary POBox 541 Notre Dame, I~J 46556 (219) 631-6385 
BA Program of Liberal Studies Senior, Theology BS Biology/Theology 
Universiry of Notre Dame, 1988 Universiry of Notre Dame Loyola Universiry Chicago, 1995 
MA Humanities 
St. John's College, 1995 
,. 











~--~--~-----~------------------~----­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
.... 
IH 
directed by Anatole Litvak $2 Adults, $1 Students SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Just look at tLe ~ay fLings are sla~king up. 
continued from page 20 
move forward from this point with a lot of pride." 
Lewis 6, Knott 0 

The match up between Lewis and Knott was a battle back and forth throughout the first half. Lewis finally overpow­ered the Angels, due to the offensive play of Emily Miller. Miller had some impressive gains from her rushing. 
Then the quarterback Liz Talarico had a completion to Carrie Upp for the touchdown, as Lewis posted six points on the scoreboard. 
The game continued to be a fight with numerous fourth down attempts missed. 
In the end, Maureen Neville secured the victory with her interception of the Angels' pass, as Lewis went on to win, 6-0. 
Pasquerilla East 13, Farley 6 
Farley made it clear that they were there to play, as Farley's Finest scored on their first offensive effort. Camille Clinton dominated on offense making numerous gains on her rushing attempts. 
Quarterback Tiernee Lucke found Clinton open in the mid­dle, and Clinton ran it in for the touchdown. The extra point attempt was missed and Farley's Finest posted a quick six points. 
The rest of the half featured a battle between the two teams w~th no one g.iving 
Please Recycle The Observer 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen Siegfried coach Scott Hardy directs the Slammers last night in their 13­8 victory over Off-Campus. · 
ground. Numerous outstand­time running short, the Pyros ing defensive and offensive wasted no time. plays were run by each team. At the conclusion of the half A few short gains were made the Pyros found themselves by the Pyros' running game. down by six. Then the Pyros took to the air, 
The Pyros got back in the and Plummer found Randesi game with an interception. deep in Farley's territory for Karen Randesi then had sever­the touchdown and the extra al receptions for small gains. point. Then Elizabeth Plummer found "I saw it floating up there, her wide receiver open in the and I went for it!" stated end zone as the Pyros posted Randesi about her game win­six points on the board. ning touchdown. That last 
The Pyros defense then took minute touchdown lifted the over, and shut down the Farley Pyros to victory over Farley's offense in four downs. With Finest, 13-6. 
TRY NOT TO SLEEP THROUGH THE 

NEXT TWENTY ONE! 
Your pals, Matt, Nick, & Eddie 


"Steal Big, Steal Uttle" iPG13) 
2:15,5:00,8:15 
"Hackers" (PG 13) 
2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9:20 
"Clockers" (Rl 
2:30, 5:30, 8:30 
"Desperado" !Rl 
1:30,4:15, 7:15, 9:40 
"Apollo 13" 

1:45, 4:45, 8:00 
Wednesday: 80's Night 
Bring CO's 

Thursday: $2 Night 
DJ -Johnny Mac 

Friday: Honey Nigh 
Give Aways Q. 


Saturday: Infraction r;~ 

From Chicago 


Wednesday, October 4, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
----------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~----------------------------------------------~~--­
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE work like this ..---.--..---.---,--..., 11 Ground 






FIT WAlK 


Take a break have some fun! Join us for a fit walk on Wednesday, October 11, 1995 at 4 
p.m. In front 'of LaFortune Student Center. As part of Alcohol Awareness Week, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education is co-sponsoring with Rec Sports a "Fit Walk." 
Register in advance at the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, 1 Mezzanine Level, LaFortune Student Center. 
Sponsored By: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
(JJE:LL 1-\1:.~1:.'s f>,tlon\"<.fl. '1-ooT>' WfltTENtN~· TOOT"fA~f£ 11\AT ':s T1!.oVE.t> \-rsELf VsE.LI:.~, ... 
Ln M~:. £¥PI-A'"' To 
l.joli (\ \...tTfLE. f\&ouT 1-\cw~TII£ l,..lortu> ~It~'> <;:,oN ... 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\-\t.R£5 ~ f'IICE. 
LEAF! DO VO\J Wr..KT IT foR '{C1JR COLLECn()N? 
DILBERT 
DOGBlRT, CORPORATE JET PILOT ATTENTION, 
<:::::::) 

;
?A 5 SE.NGEI\. 

.. 

..0 
..d-------;b>­
u 
"' 
• OF INTEREST
L---------~======~~~~--~---.~~~~~--------~~~--~ 
BU\ 11\1'3 W()JL\) \5E 01'\E.

IT's A BEI\U\11=\Jl 
~ 
u 
..0 .... 
LESS LEAr '{OIJT> NU.D

AF1ERI'IOoN .' I'M 
~OT G<:ll~ TO 
10 COLL't:.CT lt>..I£.R. W~S\E IT 0011-tG 
RIDIC\JLOVS \3\lSiWORk ~R SCHOOL.' 
I'M CAPTATN DOGBlR.T. THIS IS MY FIR.ST fliGHT. I'LL BE.T YOU 
WISH YOU HADN'T CUT 
THE CORPORf>-TE. TRAIN­ING BUDGET. 
,.. 
30 Revere 
31 Arcade name 
32 Demolitionist's supply 
36 Look closely 
38 "Ma mere, je Ia vois," in "Carmen" 39 Cut costs 41 Algerian cavalryman 42 --wide net 44 Even, scorewise 45 Quieted 

NO Wrestling practice on Wed. at 6:00 and Thur. at 
4:15 in the Wrestling Room of the JACC located in aux­iliary~ near RecSports Office. 
Attention Seniors: Sign up for Senior Rap Up Groups in NOH, SOH. LaFortune, AJumni-Senior Club and the Center for Social Concerns, 
·Holy Cross Associates will be holding two Information Meetings for people Interested ln applying for the program in Chile or the U.S. on Wednesday, October 4. The flrst will be held at the Center for Social Concerns. A brief presentation about the pro­gram's Domestic .and Chile sites will be followed by questions from those attending. Applications will be available. For more information, call 631-5521. 
International Student Information Session: Find out about Visa status and pertinent immigration lnws regarding employment, gather information utilizing Career and Placement Services resources, and learn about interviewing through "The Employment Interview: American Style." This workshop wlll be held in the Career and Placement Services Waiting Room from 6:30*8:00 P.M. today. Presented by Paul Reynolds, A.,sociate Director. 
Any freshman or sophomore Notre Dame student interested in working with the student athletic trainer program, please contact the Notre Dame Sportsmedicine Department at 631-7100 . 
48 West Point inits. 54 Hideous 49 Amtrak travel 55 Bucket in a 

•MENU 
50 ---European Buick 
Notre Dame 
51 "-Plenty o' 56 Composer Nuttin"' Thomas 
North 
52 Big name in the 58 Classified items 
Brocolli Quiche 
pineapple biz 590neof 

Chicken and Dumplings
53 Behold, to Stonewall's 

1<¥· Potato Skins 
Brutus soldiers 

*" Saint Mary's
Get answers to any three clues 

~1"' Chicken Tetrazzini 
Vegetarian Stuffed Peppers 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Patty Melt 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

DAVE YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
r-W~E~'D~N~E~,S~D~A~Y~.~O~C~T~O~B~E~-R~4~.~~~~5-----------------------, 
(For your personalized daily Jeane bixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
Devote some thought to your career; 
swifter progress is possible. Seek an 
expert's help when updating your 
resume. Someone who loves you 
will nol lake "no" for an answer. 
Give romance time to mature. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Fill­ing in for an absent partner can be tiring. Plans for the future occupy you day and night. Chances are you are considering a new alliance. An older person provides the data you need. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): An unexpected windfall requires careful handling. Take advanlage of the services of an image-maker. A friend shares a fascinating confi­dence. You will enjoy managing your own money. A child gets a les­son in finance. 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your services are in great demand today. Eliminate the super­fluous. Concentrate only on the absolutely necessary. Risky or expensive ventures should be avoid­ed even if your intentions are the best. Revive a fom1er relationship. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Changing circumstances moti­vate you to consider new ideas. Look for attractive alternatives while avoiding difficult people and no-win situations. Shoppers need to keep a close eye on their cash and belongings. Stay alert. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A lull in activity gives you an opportunity to think and plan. Be aware that a conservalive financial policy can pay big dividends. You make steady progress towards a long-sought career or business goal. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You get a chance to display your special abilities now. Fall back on your training and experience. The decision to remain close 10 home is a wise one. Active minds always find things to do. 
South Veal Parmigiana Vegetable Stir-Fry Pita Parslied Potatoes 

.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Parts of addresses s Like some 
religions 10"f.furry!..---·­14 Pip 
111 Thnll to p1eces 16 Hip 11 Seagoing 
departure from a Scandinavian capital? 
20A Stooge 21 "As You Like It" 
forest 2250's rocker Bill 23 One "T" of TNT 24 Item used in 
strokes 
25 Anouk Aimee film in a mid east capital? 
33 Destinations 34 Mosquito genus 35 Pourboire
37 Dictum· ·;--­38 Friend of the Red Cross 39 Overteed 40 Picnic interloper 41 Ur's locale 42 Vieux --(New Orleans locale) 43 Aggressive personality trait in the Far East? 46 KingCole 47 Function 48 Heep 51 Latin "that is" 54 Trilogy that includes "1919" 

57 South American 
football player? 60 longish dress 61 Like Fellini's vita 62 Dash of panache 
63 Barb.c;~9os_e.l5P9rt. 64 Sleipnir, for Odin 65 Computer unit 
DOWN 
1 Type of lens 2 -many words 30ne-name 
sports star 4 Box-office sign 5 Vaudevillian's 
bellwether 6 "When I was 
" 7 Scandal suffix a Memo abbr. 9 Paleo's opposite 
10 Some things 
1 2 Bang-up 13 Q B' s call 18 Farm homes 19 Pandemonium 23 It's hard to 
believe 24 Debtor 25 Pearl Mosque 
site 
26 Jockey's ride 27 W.W. ll's most-bombed island 28 Ruth's mother-in-law 29 Cygnus shiner 
SCOTI ADAMS 
FOI\ SAFETY, KEE.P AN EYE OUT THE WINDOW... 
IF IT LOOKS LIK.E WE.'I\E GONNA HIT THE GROUND, TR'Y J'UMPING UP RIGHT 
BEFORE. IMPACT 

cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Tackle new projects with "Cven more than your usual energy and enthusi · asm. lnnuential people who admire your style will aid your career. Do not be shy about using your social connections; wealthy friends will be proud of their role in promoting your talents. Those tempted to marry early in 1996 should wait until next fall. Your financial cir· cumstances change for the better. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: author Anne Rice, singer Pani LaBelle, novelist Jackie Collins, baseball player Tony La Russa. ARIES (March 2!-April 19): You can be a community leader now, respected for your wit and wis­dom. A calm discussion of creative differences could lead to new under­standing at work. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A long-tenn project moves ahead easi­ly now. Admiring allies make you feel respected and needed. Your honesty with a loved one inspires trust. Promote joint ventures. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): New vistas open up. Travel and edu­cational opponunities knock at your door. Inside infonnation from a rela­tive or friend could help you make a dream come true. Keep all business dealings strictly aboveboard. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Give serious thought to personal matters and family issues. It might be best to spend more hours at home and less time socializing. A trip to a new restaurant could turn into a mini-adventure! LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Cultural events prove especially rewarding this week. Show appreciation for others' creativity. Review recent expenditures before reworking a budget. Advance planning is essen­tial for success. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 



SPORTS 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Due to swelling in his throat caused by recent surgery, Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz will be watch­ing the Washington game on Saturday from the press box. 
Change of scenery for Holtz 
Swelling forces Irish coach from sidelines 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Ediror 

A tough week for Lou Holtz and the Irish just got a little bit tougher. 
The recovering Holtz has experienced a slight set-back in the recuperative process this week as he had swelling of the throat. 
At first, the ailment didn't appear to be related to Holtz's recent spinal cord surgery but the sideline for the next two that didn't turn out to be the weeks," Heisler explained. case. "He will be in the press box 
"The swelling is r-=-==---==--==--=---------, though." 
~:r~~te~~::!~~~~ 198,6 IRISH 
Notre Dame sports informa­tion director John Heisler noted late last night. 
In light of the new complica­


Off-Campus came out charged for the second half, and scored on their first offensive effort. 

Football at Washington October 7, 2:30p.m. 
Volleyball vs. West Virginia October 6, 7 p.m. vs. Duke October 7, 7 p.m. 

... 
~ 
Men's Soccer vs. Detroit October 5, 7:30 p.m. 


th•; ~~d:~~~~ attempt of Holtz was probably a bit pre-mature. 
After the Ohio State loss, 
tion, Holtz is not 

FOOlU,LL, r~7 r~ei~~~
expected to be back on the side­the post-game line this Saturday against press conference. Washington. 
"Coach Holtz won't be on see HOLTZ I page 16 

Wednesday, October 4, 1995 

Bengal Bouts set to begil). for novices 
By TODD MURPHY Sports W rirer 
For almost seventy years the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts have been a constant source of en­tertainment for countless fans, as well as giving students of all skill levels a chance to com­pete. 
For many competitors, get­ting in shape to swing the leather for a few rounds is a way to try something that they wouldn't nor­
mally  have  a  
chance to do.  
For  others,  it  

remains a goal to be gotten by thou­sands of push-ups, millions of sit-ups, and gallons of sweat. 

Thus, the Notre Dame Boxing Club is warming up to start the fun all over again by sending a call out to all the rookies. 
Tournaments and training for novice boxers will begin soon. This is the time when potential Bengal Bouters can get a jump on technique training and be­come familiar with the sport. 
There will be about fifty re­turning boxers this year. Cap­tain and returning senior Mike Farrell commented, ~Many of the champions may have been seniors last year. but quite a few finalist are coming back. Novice is a good chance to make a name for yourself early." 
There will be a mandatory meeting for all hopeful novice this Wednesday, October 4th, at 
4:30 p.m. in the boxing room downstairs in the J.A.C.C. Practice will begin the Monday after fall break. 
WATER POLO 

The Notre Dame Water Polo Club hosted its frrst tournament of the year this past weekend, beating Ohio University (15-11), Bowling Green (15-6), and Michigan (13-2). 
Irish captain Walter Morrissey assumed his leadership posi­tion by demonstrat­ing a strong presence for the team. 
Captain Brain Wood also stepped up in the game against Ohio University scor­ing three straight goals after OU brought the score to 
within one. 

Other Irish having a stellar weekend were Pat Lane, Ty Skilling, and freshman goalie Mike Megall who kept the Irish in the Ohio game. 
The Irish travel to Dayton this weekend for the midwest seed­ing tournament. 
"We are doing really well, but we'll have to play a lot better to win this weekend," Morrissey said. 
CREW 

The Irish traveled to the very hub of Crew activity this past weekend when they raced in Washington, D.C. at the Head of the Potomac. 
The Irish men's division raced two four person boats (finishing 9th and 11th) and 
see CLUB I page 14 


Laurie's two touchdown passes slam Off-Campus 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Gonzalez and Vassallo dominated once again Sports Writer with their rushing and reception efforts. The Crime was rewarded when an unsports­
There was a chill in the air and the fog was manlike conduct penalty was accessed on one rolling in, as the Siegfried Slammers upset Off-of the Slammers' coaches. · Gonzalez charged Campus Crime, 13-8. into the end zone for the touchdown, giving the 
.... The Slammers' first offensive series was dom-Crime six points. The Crime followed up the inated by Trisha Schafnitz's rushing and by Jen play with a reception, and added another two Laurie's throwing. Schafnitz ran .----------------, points. down the sideline for a first down and then grabbed Laurie's pass Siegfried quickly answered led and gained another first down. by Laurie. Laurie had a huge 
return on the kickoff, in which 
Quarterback Laurie fooled the she threw a few moves to fool the Off-Campus' defense and rushed Crime defense. Once again, for the touchdown. Then Laurie Laurie and Schafnitz worked completed a pass to Anne Dubay their magic as the Slammers who was all alone in the corner of found themselves on the goal line. the end zone to complete the extra Schafnitz had a short reception, point try. lowered her head, and charged 
The rest of the half was a battle '---------------' toward the end zone, but missed back and forth between the two teams. Off-the extra point. Campus' offense was highlighted by Charo The Crime tried to come back, but their hopes Gonzalez and Patti Vassallo, both of who had were dashed when Siegfried intercepted and large rushing gains on the reverse. secured the upset. 
The Crime's defense showed its strength, "This victory was expected," coach Scott including when Carrie Eglinton intercepted Hardy stated. " This team has believed in Laurie's pass. However, the Crime went in at themselves from the start. They have had to halftime down by six. overcome a lot of adversity, and the team will 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen Running back Trisha Schafnitz scored the winning touchdown for the Slammers after catching a short pass from quarterback Jen Laurie. 

see IH I page 18 Women's Soccer 
• Rodman speaks out about trade
a)

vs. Connecticut October 6, 7:30 p.m. 
see page 16 

Cross Country 
Notre Dame Invitational 
American League playoff action 
••--= • 
October 6, T.B.A. 


~ 
see page 14 SMC Sports 
• National League playoff action 
Soccer vs. Kalamazoo October 5, 3:30 p.m. 
~ 
see page 15 







