
Tuesday, November 28, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 62 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Finance class faces investigation for cheating 
Foundation grant to fund faculty position 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 
Allegations of widespread cheating in four sections of a senior finance class last week have sP-nt shock waves through the College of Business Admin­istration. 
Aecording to several students, a departmental take home test was administered to the sec­tions of Advanced Corporate J'inanee the week before Thanksgiving break and it is believed that close to one hun-

Guide takes goals to entire student body 

By DAVE TYLER 
Nrw> Editor 
Notre Dame Student Gov­ernment is taking The Guide to the masses. 
Today Student Government begins a campaign to inerease rtlsponses to thll troubled wurse guidebook by asking students to take evaluation forms directly to their dasses. 
According to Studnnt Body Presidllllt Jonathan Patrick. Studm1t government will dis­tribute a letter to University professors tomorrow asking for dred students have been ac­cused of cheating on the exam. A female senior, who wished to remain anonymous, stated that the cheating occurred primarily in the College of Business Ad­ministration computer lab, where the majority of the stu­dents were working on the test. Numerous students were col­laborating on the exam prob­lems and were turned in the following day by another mem­ber of the class, stated two members of the class. 
Robert Battalio and D. 
their cooperation in assem­bling class evaluations for The Guide. 
Unlike past editions that asked for the active participa­tion of professors in distribut­ing Guide forms. this year's effort will rely chiefly on stu­dPnt motivation to administer and collect evaluations aecord­ing to Patrick. The letter requests that instructors who do not want to be evaluated call the Student Government office by this Friday. If a pro-
see GUIDE I page 4 
Spr~i~l to Thr Observer 
Tlw University of Notre Dame will rnceive a $1 million grant from the Dr. Scholl Foundation of Chicago to Bstablish an en­dowml associate professorship in tho dnpartrncnt of romance languages and literatures. 
"We arn most grateful to the Dr. Scholl Foundation for its timely and generous grant," said Notre Dame President Rev. 
Edward Malloy. 

"By enabling us to take our first major steps toward the establishment of a doctoral program in romance languages and literatures, it addresses one of our most crucial fundraising priorities." 
Homance languages are those modllrn languages deriv­ing from the versions of Latin 
see GRANT I page 8 
Katherine Spiess, assistant pro­fessors of finance,' administered the exams to their respective students and, upon hearing of the alleged cheating, requested written confessions from the students involved, students said. As of the Thanksgiving break, in the vicinity of twenty signed statements had been re­ceived, according to one senior finance major who also wished to remain unnamed. In class yesterday, Battalio and Spiess informed the students that to­day would be the last day the 
Forging ahead 

college would accept written confessions. 
According to the Academic Code of Honor Handbook, there are several steps the adminis­tration and the College of Busi­ness Administration would take to deal with the allegations of cheating. 
Jason Schroeder, chair of the Student Honor Code Committee explained that, if the people in­volved admit they cheated, the Finance Department Honesty Committee will have to decide first if the violation shall be considered major or minor. Once that decision has been made, the students involved will have a hearing where the Committee will present the evi­dence of cheating. At that point, each student will have the opportunity to proffer a defense and witnesses if he or she chooses. If the students are found guilty, several outcomes could occur. 
A major offense carries with it an automatic F grade in the 
see CHEATING/ page 8 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

Construction continues on the additions of the football stadium as the construction company breaks ground. 
• i~siJENCE HALL AssociATioN/ BoARo oF GoveRNANCE Driver accosts student 

Group begins officer elections near graduate residence 
By !lEATHER CROSS and •Treasurer: Patti Corbitt they receive the highest num­By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
EMILY RUFFNER •Secretary: Karen Murphy. ber of votes. There are cur­A~sociare News Ediror 
News Wroten Christine Hiesenberger rently two nominees, Milos and 
•Vice President: Patti Corbitt, Corbitt, who could possibly be 
A female graduate student
Aftr.r two weeks without a Niki Milos affected by this rule. 
was accosted by an unidenti­perrnarwnt executive board, the •President: Paulette Elections will take place next fied male yesterday afternoonSaint Mary's Hesidmu~e llall As­Haczkowski, Niki Milos week in place of HilA's regular 
on Bulla Road, according to
sudation (Hili\) took nomina­There were also several meeting. Each candidate will Chuck llurley, assistant direc­tions for the positions of Secre­members who declined nomi­have the opportunity to speak tor of Notre Dame Security. 
tary, Trr.asurer, Vicn President. nations. They cited sueh rea­before the HilA voting mem­At about. 2:45 p.m., the stu­and l'msident. sons as not having enough time bers with the election immedi­dent was walking along BullaNominatir.HJS were conducted to dedieate to the council, and ately following on December 4. 
Hoad between Juniper Hoadby Student Body President desire to remain in their cur­Only RIIA members will vote on 
and O'Hara-Grace Graduate
Sarah Sullivan. who explained rent positions. who is to beeome part of their 
Hesidences, when a vehicle
nominee requirements. Be­.len Turbiak declined her next executive board. 
heading west on Bulla pulled rections, the student ap­
sides serving in their halls' nomination for president, as "I think things will run 
over alongside the student. proached tlw car, at which I"OtiiH:il, nominells must have a did lleather Brown for secre­smoothly and that leaders will The vehicle is a "light-col­point the driver asked her to2.0 grade point average after tary and Kf~r Lynn pecarti. for naturally emerge," said llegina 
ored, square-shaped, older perform an unspeeified sexual
thnw stmwstnrs. must not he treasurer. I wasn t surpnsed llall President Lara Becker. 
model," according to a report act, aceording to the student's on tlwir hall's executive hoard. at the number of declines," said Karen Murphy, who is cur­
submitted by the student to report.
and must not he a first year Hegina llall Secretary Meghan rently serving as interim secre­Security. In response, the studentstudent. Theard. "Each of the board tary and is nominated for that The car's driver -described walked away from tlHl ear andAt first, eouneil members mernbnrs must take on a lot of board position, agrees. ''I'm as a white male, 19-22 years reportlld the incident tn Secu­slwmml rnluctant to nominate responsibility," added Theard. completely confident in all the old, with short, light brown. rity.
onn unotlwr. But onee nomi­Sullivan elarified that if one nominations that, whomever is curly hair -then rolled down Security is currently investi­nations start1HI. things ran person is elected into two posi­elected, the board will be won-his window. Thinking that the gating the incident, llurleysmoothly. tions, they will be appointed to driver was going to ask for di-said.
Nominees wenl as follows: the highest position for whieh see RHA/BOG/ page 4 



Tuesday, November 28, 1995
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 

• INSUJE Cm.UMN 

It's the final countdown 
I'm not going to lie to you. We are embarking on a hellacious three week academic journey. Yep, kids, we basically have three weeks to prove ourselves. We have three weeks to read everything we haven't read but were supposed to read. We have three weeks to catch up on the journals we were supposed to have been writing daily. We have three weeks to write those three ten page papers, finish two group projects, and memorize those equations. 
But in my estimation of things, it's absolutely necessary to take study breaks. And lots of them. So I thought I'd offer some suggestions for study breaks that we'll all need to be taking within these next few weeks. Here it goes: 
•Ifthere's 
snow out there, have a snowball fight. If there's not snow out there, impro­vise. Use pretzels, paper wads, and the like. 

•Chase 
squirrels. I've never tried it, but I hear it's a good time. 

•Go 
buy the Cliffs Notes. 

•Go 
to Denny's. Don't take your books because you probably won't open them any­way, and there's no need to carry around the extra weight. 

•Or 
go to Meijer and stock up on caffeinat­ed beverages and any product containing excessive amounts of sugar. 

•
Bathe. It's easy for some of us to forget when we get so intensely into our studying, but it really is important. It's even neces­sary. 

•Call 
a friend who will be going abroad next semester and get his or her <!-ddress. Or throw a bash for some of our finest who will be elsewhere next semester. But don't forget to wish them farewell. 

•Play 
on e-mail or the internet for a while. (But remember this: Everything in modera­tion.)· 

•
If you're really on top of things, you could send out some Christmas cards or do a little Christmas shopping. But if you don't have a lot of cash, maybe just clean off your desk or something. You can shop when you get home. (Do they make belated Christmas cards?) 

•Consume 
a lot of vitamin C, just in case. 

•Smoke. 
If you don't already, you might start within these next few weeks. I've noticed that the front steps of LaFortune have been a little busier lately. If you don't smoke, that's okay, too. I suggest gummy worms to fill the void. 

•And 
my personal favorite: sleep. Don't just take a little nap here and there, although those are always good. But get some studying done and then take a long hard nap. Like one where you get under your blanket and turn off all the lights and forget for two hours about Jonathan Swift and the Pythagorean Theorem and every­thing else you've been trying so hard to cram into your head. I have this theory that we're all part of a sleep deprivation experi­ment. It's called college. 


So study hard, but don't neglect some relaxation within these next few weeks. Because all study and no play makes Domers and Belles alike real crabby. Never neglect the fun. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• Tm:uw's STAFF 

News Viewpoint Jamie Heisler Victoria Pratte Deborah Schultz Marty Dickinson Sports Meaghan Smith Tim Sherman Production Graphics Jackie Moser Brian Blank Tara Grieshop Accent 
Lab Tech Ashleigh Thompson 
Michael Hungeling 
Melinda Cragan 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation .periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
FedEx gives pilots raise, imposes new work rules 

MEMPHIS. Tenn. 

FedEx pilots are turning down over­time in a holiday-season dispute with management, and today they accused the cargo airline of trying to undercut their job security. 
"The company wants to increase its ability to take away jobs from FedEx pilots," said Will Johnson, a spokesman for the Air Line Pilots Association. 
Federal Express, in the midst of its first major contract dispute with orga­nized labor, announced a pay raise Sunday averaging 4 percent for its 2,950 pilots. The 22-year-old company also imposed new work rules the union contends will nullify those increases. 
A federally mandated "cooling-off' period barring union job actions or work rule changes by FedEx ended at 
12:01 a.m. EST Saturday. 
Rather than strike, union leaders said pilots were working to the letter of all Federal Aviation Administration and company regulations during the Christmas season and refusing over­time. FedEx, the world's largest overnight package delivery company, vowed to continue normal operations and warned pilots they could face disci­plinary action, including dismissal, for 
Members of the Federal Express 
Corp. pilots union refuse to fly 
overtime in response to announced 
raises and new work rules. 
(---~---········· ..... 
Quarterly revenues ' , $2.47' . ' 
$2.5 ...... -~-.! In billions 
IV I II 1994 1995 

APIVVm. J. Castello 
a slowdown. 
The pilots, who earn an average salary of $128,000, want a 17 percent pay raise over three years of a pro­posed work contract, but Johnson said money is not the most important issue under debate. 
The company, he said, wants broader authority to contract with other ship­pers and hire non-FedEx pilots during peak shipping periods. 
The slowdown could disrupt complex shipping schedules that are particular­ly important during the holidays when FedEx ships millions of packages throughout the country and abroad. 
But Shirlee Clark, a company spokes­woman, said FedEx has not detected any major disruptions. 
"Our operations over the weekend appeared normal," she said. 
Paul Schlesinger, a market analyst with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said it was too early to tell if the labor dis­pute has adversely affected the compa­ny's relations with its customers. 
Johnson said union pilots, who account for about half of FedEx fliers, have been told to refuse overtime work until the company returns to the bar­gaining table. 

Gingrich rules out Presidential run 
MARIETTA, Ga. 

House Speaker Newt Gingrich, who had flirted with a presidential run for months, said today he would not be a candidate for the 1996 Republican nomination. "Frankly, looking at the daunting challenge of trying to orga­nize a national campaign, looking at what people like Bob Dole and Phil Gramm and Lamar Alexander have 

gone through, I didn't see how I could both be speaker of the House and be in a position to mount a campaign on that scale," Gingrich told a news conference. "My job as speaker is a pretty challenging one and one which has a tremendous opportunity to improve the quality of life for Georgia," he said. Gingrich said he won't endorse GOP front-runner Dole or any presidential candidate and that he hopes to be asked to chair the Republican National Convention. Gingrich said he talked with family mem­bers before making the decision and wants to focus on is­sues. 
Police charged in death of black man 
PITTSBURGH 

Two white policemen were charged with murder Mon­day in the death of a black businessman who suffocated during a scuffle that Jesse Jackson had branded a lynch­ing. A third white officer was charged with involuntary manslaughter. Two more officers, both white, escaped charges, and one of them will testify for the prosecution in the Oct. 12 death of Jonny Gammage, 31, a cousin of Pittsburgh Steelers football player Ray Seals. Seals said he was satisfied with the charges and called for calm. But the victim's mother said all five of the police officers were "mad with rage and evil" and should go to prison. Prosecutors did not follow a recommendation by a coro­ner's jury that all five be charged with homicide. "I have a duty to file only those charges which I believe can be substantiated by admissible evidence at trial," said District Attorney Robert Colville. Gammage, who man­aged his cousin's clothing and charity interests, died after a low-speed chase by police. 

FDA approves drug· for leukemia 
WASHINGTON 

The Food and Drug Administration has approved a 
new drug to fight one of the most lethal forms of 
leukemia. Promyelocytic leukemia is fairly rare, affect­
ing about 2,500 Americans, the FDA said. But it is one of 
the most aggressive forms, causing sudden and serious 
internal bleeding and very rapidly advancing to become 
life-threatening. Standard therapy is the cancer drug an­
thracycline, but it fails 75 percent of the time, said Dr. 
Ray Warrell of Memorial Sloan Kettering r:ancer Center. 
Those patients' last hope is a risky bone marrow trans­
plant. A study of 1,500 patients found Hoffman La­
Roche's drug Vesanoid caused complete remissions in 
half of the leukemia sufferers who had relapsed after 
standard therapy, the FDA said. It approved the drug 
Monday for this use, a move Warrell said could largely 
eliminate bone marrow transplants for these patients. 
Other studies show at least 65 percent of Vesanoid pa­
tients lived five years after their leukemia diagnosis, 
compared with just 25 percent of patients who receive 
standard therapy, Warrell said. 
Judge releases two in jail for murder 
SALEM, Ore. 

A judge today ordered the release of a man and woman 
who have been in prison four years for a murder in 
which the "Happy Face Killer" now has been convicted. 
Laverne Pavlinac walked out of prison two months after 
the real killer confessed. John Sosnovske probably would 
be released later in the day, said Kathleen Cegla, an 
assistant attorney general. The pair were convicted in 
1991 for the murder of Taujna Bennett, 23, of Portland. 
Pavlinac confessed to the Bennett killing and implicated 
Sosnovske. But at her trial, she testified she made up the 
story in an attempt to escape an abusive relationship 
with Sosnovske. She was convicted after jurors heard her 
taped confession. Pavlinac, now 62, was sentenced to life 
in prison for murder. Sosnovske, 42, pleaded no contest 
to murder to avoid the death penalty, and was also sen­
tenced to life. Keith Hunter Jesperson began claiming 
responsibility for the killing in letters, each adorned with 
a drawing of a smiling face, that he sent to news outlets. 

Thesday, Nov. 28 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 28. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

..............-...&....&.. ~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pmssure 

H L B &'SI [1] 0 . (ZJ EJ {)~u
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VlaAuoc!.t/adPress 
Atlanta 52 40 Dallas 62 33 New Orleans 56 38 Baltimore 42 42 Denver 59 32 New York 46 43 Boston 43 39 Los Angeles 81 52 Philadelphia 43 42 Chicago 32 12 Miami 81 71 Phoenix 7 4 44 Columbus 33 21 Minneapolis 26 10 St. Louis 38 21
Via Associated Press GrsphicsNet 
0 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Tuesday, November 28, 1995 

CSC honors former ND professor with citation 
Spe~ial 10 The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame's Center for Social Con­eerns has honored u former Notre Dame fuculty member with a spfleial award. 
H e v . 
Michael I limes, now a professor of theology at Boston College, rnceived the center's 

S o e i a 1 Himes Concerns Award during cermnonies at Notrn Dame last month. 
Thn citation praised I limes, a popular teachnr at Notre Dame from 1<JH7-93, for his "insights, joy and humor," and for the manner in which his teaching, preaching and way of life reflect the biblical text (Matthew 10:8), "What you receive as a gift, give as a gift." 
The citation also expressed gratitude for the recent publi­cation of the book "Doing the Truth in Love: Conversations about God, Relationships and Service," which !limes wrote in collaboration with a group of center staff members, Notre Dame students and alumni. 
Ordained a priest of the dio­cese of Brooklyn in 1972, I limes holds a doctoral degree in the history of Christianity from the University of Chicago. Before corning to Notre Dame, he had served as dean of the Seminary of the Immaculate Conception in Huntington, N.Y. 
lie is the co-author (with his brother, Kenneth) of "Fullness of Faith: The Public Significance of Theology" and of the video series "The Mystery of Faith: An Introduction to Catholicism." 

HAPPY 21ST KRISTINA! 
,._
-
.J .--·~fUle, ~ ZJand, ~, 




-.. •• 
e~& ~ 


The Observer • NEWS page 3 

The Observer/Brian Hardy 

Practice makes perfect 
Members of the Notre Dame String Trio rehearse for their upcoming concert to be held November 29 at the Snite Museum. 
Greenspan: Budget future dim 
By ROB WELLS 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
A failure by Congress to reach a balanced budget agree­ment could lead to a "sharp increase" in the cost of mort­gages and other interest rates, Federal Heserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said Monday. 
"I think the reaction could be quite negative" in the financial markets, Greenspan said at a Senate Banking Committee hearing . 
For months, Republicans have been making the argu­ment that failure to work out a budget deal could hurt the fi­nancial markets, and ultimately 
"A WAKE-UP CALL TO THE WORLD." 

"A MASTERPIECE. The kind of film that oufls the ground out from under you." 
Amy Taubin, VILLAGE VOICE 
"TWO 
THUMBS UP." 
$/SKEL &EBERT 
KDS 
T HE DEBUT FILM FROM LARRY 

nrought to you by the Student Union Board 
n'\!_,.1/lflOIII.no.•D 



.fli<:ll;::~lto."'.j,:.:· "-~-,.:r.:.-..:.:,~~ •.Y.:,"\)""((1fi,'l!t:';.• ,.....,.,..,.>4~·~"'f:'!~ ...:.r,.c:;'C*C
; '• .:...-: ?'¢.:..:~.,,;. ':. .;"':,C.:Z....~·~,. 
Ul.lo;>-, 

ltl~t:t~fllion and discussion to follow, "ltape and the NO Campus" led by llr. Franco or tbt~ U Counst~l Center 
raise the cost of borrowing for consumers. Greenspan's com­ments, made in response to questions by Sen. Pete Dornenici, R-N.M., chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, served to further bolster the GOP's arguments. 
Greenspan's remarks came as Republicans and Democrats said they planned to begin ne­gotiations Tuesday on a seven­year budget-balancing package. The first session will probably be held in the Capitol in the evening, following a White House meeting between Presi­dent Clinton and congressional leaders of both parties on Bosnia and the budget. 
Administration and congres­sional Republican officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the talks' open­ing session would focus on who the negotiators will be and how the bargaining over spending and tax cuts will be structured. So far, Republicans have said they want four negotiators on each side while Democrats have insisted on more. 
Republicans, frustrated by the administration's refusal to provide a detailed proposal of its own for eliminating deficits, said they would begin the bar­gaining by pressing White House officials for such specifics. 
''I'm sure that's where we'll start, asking that question," said House Majority Leader Dick Arrney, H-Texas, following a meeting of GOP leaders. 
Greenspan said expectations of a balanced-budget agree­ment had lifted the financial markets in the past year, play­ing a major role in a two per­centage point decline in long­term interest rates. 
That progress could be re­versed if the budget talks fail, he warned, which could lead to a "sharp increase in long-term rates." 
Noting the rapid growth of some entitlement programs such as Social Security and Medicare, which exceed the growth of the tax base, Greenspan said the programs "must be reined in" as part of a balanced-budget agreement. 
In their Nov. 19 agreement to fully reopen the federal gov­ernment, administration offi­cials agreed to Hepublican de­mands that the two sides try to craft a seven-year budget-bal­ancing measure. 
GMAT•GMAT•GMAT 
Are You Prepared? We Are. 
•Limit 
of 15 Students per Class 

•Free 
Extra Help 

•
The Best Instructors 

•Satisfaction 
Guaranteed 


THE , PRINCETON REVIEW 
Classes begin Dec. 2nd for the Jan. 20, 1996 test. Call today! 
(800) 865-7737 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S. 


--~~-------­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 28, 1995 
various student government method. Freshman year class­candid evaluation process)," Forced to cancel publication for members in charge of finding es, along with lab courses, dis­said Patrick. Student support is the spring of 1996 because of a
Guide 

volunteers in each colleges and cussion groups and required key to the success of The Guide, lack of professor interest, The 
sons," a film depicting the life for Christmas. f of an AIDS infected couple will •McCandless Hall is planning
RHA/BOG 
I 
be shown throughout the day. a study break. They are also continued from page 1 "Students are doing them­planning for an upcoming Fire­selves an injustice by thinking side Chat with their Campus
derful," stated Murphy. 

they are not at risk," student Ministry Liason, Father Jim. 
The Board of Governance 
body president Sarah Sullivan The discussion will be about 
(BOG) members also met yes­
said. customs. McCandless will also 
terday to discuss concerns for 
In other RHA and BOG news: be sponsoring a service project
the remainder of the semester. 
•Annunciata Hall is still this Saturday. 
Topping the list was the Resi­
working on getting a mi­•Regina Hall will decorate 
dence Hall Association (RHA) 
crowave. The new hall has fi­their Christmas tree on Sunday.
discussion. 

nally acquired an artificial Each section will be assigned a 
BOG took nominations and 
Christmas tree, and are looking theme for the tree. During this 
seconds last night at the RHA 
for ornament donations. time, residents will also wrap
meeting for the executive board 
•Holy Cross Hall will be tak­the gifts donated by residents. 
positions. 

ing nominations for Hall Regina Hall sill have a study
BOG also discussed events 
Secretary at this week's meet­break in place of this week's 
that the board will be sponsor­
ing. meeting.
ing within the upcoming weeks. 
• LeMans Hall is still selling •Dr. DePauw, psychology pro­
BOG will be sponsoring a table 
sweatshirts. The hall is still fessor, and Susan Vance, chair 
at the Center for the Homeless 
trying to raise money for their of business administration and 
Luncheon this Thursday, Nov. 
purchase of a table at the Cen­economics, will give a presenta­
30. The luncheon, held at the 
ter for the Homeless' upcoming tion on alcohol abuse on the 
Century Center, will feature 
luncheon. Their seats will go to Saint Mary's campus in com­
Lou lloltz as the keynote speak­
shelter residents. LeMans is parison with other college cam­er. also working on a service pro­puses on December 6. 
Other BOG sponsored events 
ject for Hospice. Their efforts •BOG members will volunteer 
taking place within the remain­
will be combined with those at at Saint Margaret's Women's
der of the semester include 
Campus Ministry. The hall is Shelter Christmas party on De­
World AIDS Awareness Day, 
also sponsoring a needy family cember 9. 
which is Dec. 1. "The John-




The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Associate Viewpoint Editor Assistant Viewpoint Editor Viewpoint Copy Editor 
Contact Michael O'Hara at 1-7471 for more information. 

I r 
I 
NEED A JOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
r 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" to fill staffing assignments for area families in need ofchild care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
to find out more! 


Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
• l I I I l !I . I ·t I l • • I • • • I' 41 • • " '"' ~ ~ :. .. _. • ~ 
courses with only one section will be omitted, Patrick said. 
"We want to hit as many classes as possible that stu­dents will be actually choosing from," he said. Patrick said he believes that professors on the whole will support this effort, based on feedback organizers have received. "I think a lot of professors support the idea, the philosophy behind The Guide," he said. Organizers have worked very hard to allay fac­ulty concerns about the student run project, he said. 
"It reflects positively on the relationship between students and professors if we have (a 



lm"~OOrts 
Sweaters, Clothing, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala • Peru • Mexico • Nepal
Thailand • India • Ecuador INCRED'IBLE PRICES! GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFTS! Unbelievable Bargain Corner Relocating Business .. EVERYTHING MUST Go! 
•Proceeds from this corner go to Guatemalan Education Fund Other donations greatly appreciated! 
(I'm doing this alone! HELP!) 
LaFortune -Room 108 Nov. 27-Dec.2 (Sat) ONLYl 10:00 am -5:00 pm 
orlds 


$2 299 
701CSDX4.75MHz 
' 8 MB RAM/360MB Hard Dnv<· 
f' ------· ·~ 


IBM PCs Offer the Perfect Combination of Price, Conwnience and Performance 
==-=':'=® 
continued from page 1 

fessor does not respond, project organizers will assume the pro­fessor is interested in being evaluated, Patrick said. 
Students would then pass out the forms at the same time as the University directed Teacher Course Evaluations (TCE's), and then collect and return them to Student Government. 
"We're hoping for a lot of stu­~ dent and faculty support," r Patrick said. "We're doing a lot 
of the leg work so other people won't have to." Project organizers have de­vised a system which places 
major to hand out forms to their classes. Patrick says schedules of volunteers will be compared and arranged to try to cover the broadest spectrum of classes possible. 
"This is not a huge commit­ment, it will take no more than a half an hour," he said. 
Volunteers would be asked to pick up the form from Student Government later this week, and administer the evaluations during the final three days of class. Students would collect and return the forms during the study days. 
Guide organizers hope to reach over 4 7 5 classes with this Patrick said. 
"Students can help the pro­ject out by volunteering to take the packets to class, talking the effort up among their friends and by filling out the forms conscientiously," Patrick said. 
"This is well within student's reach," Patrick said of the pro­ject. "Together we can make this a reality." 
The student professor and course evaluation book has faced numerous obstacles in its three plus year existence. 
Guide hopes to return in the fall of next year with renewed vigor. The program has re­ceived the advice and support of Associate Provost Father Timothy Scully as well as matching funds from the Provost's Office to help keep costs down, according to Patrick. 
Student interested in helping with any aspect of The Guide's evaluation distribution should call student government at 1­7688. 


page 5 

Tuesday, November 28, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
Break-in
Clinton seeks support for Bosnian plan 
Associated Press The mission comes on the heels of 

mimics
Keeping the peace in Bosnia 
an agreement signed in Dayton, 
The peace agreement calls for a NATO-led force of an estimated
WASHINGTON Ohio, last week to stop the bloodiest 
60,000 troops made up primarily of U.S., French and British forces. 
Clinton's prime-time address fighting in Europe since World War 
Under both NATO and Q The U.S.'s mililary role In Bosnia should be 

Watergate
kicked oil' an intnnse administration II, claiming 250,000 lives. He said President Clinton's orders: completed within a year. 
campaign to bmak down opposition to what Pentagon plannnrs regard as the most dangerous U.S. military operation sincn the Persian Gulf War. 
Clinton tried to assuage fears that the operation would evolve into a major eonlliet, what critics refer to as "mission crnnp." No fewer than four times. he described the opera­tion in narrow terms -"limited. foeusnd" -and said it would have "rtlalislic goals that can be 1u:hievnd in a finitll period of time." 
The American troops would be part of a 60,000-man NATO force enforeing a 600-mile long separa­tion zone between the warring fac­tions. Headquartered in Tuzla in northeast Bosnia, the Americans would be deployed in a mountain­ous, mine-strewn countryside in harsh wintflr conditions. 
The dangers would be com­pounded by the bill!Jr ethnic ri­valries and suspicions that tore apart Yugoslavia. To some in Bosnia. the NATO troops are more likely to be seen as an unwelcome oeeupying force than as peaeekeep­ing saviors. 
the war had "challenged our inter­ests and troubled our souls." 
"We must not turn our backs on Bosnia now," Clinton said. "So I ask all Americans -and I ask every member of Congress, Democrats and Republicans alike, to make the choiee for peace. In the choice between peace an~. war, American must choose peace. 
Clinton said the Bosnia mission "can succeed because the mission is clear and limited. Our troops are strong and very well prepared." 
And yet, Clinton acknowledged, "no deployment of American troops is risk free and this one may well involve casualties." 
Clinton has promised to seek Congress' support for the mission, but has made clear he will invoke his powers as commander in chief to deploy the forces if lawmakers resist. 
It appeared Congress would defer to the president -and let him shoulder the responsibility as well. 
Dole urged his colleagues to "keep an open mind (but) not an empty mind" about Clinton's 
speec~. 

ATTENTION WVFI STAFF 





MANDATORY MEETING 
Wednesday, November 29 7:00-9:00p.m. Montgomery Theatre 
• 
Spring 1996 will be discussed. 

• 
Call 631-6888 for excused absence. 



Deployment of U.S. Troops to Bosnia 
and 
The Yugoslav Peace Settlement 
A Roundtable Discussion 
Auditorium Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Wednesday, November 29, 1995 at 4:30P.M. 
Aforum for facuity and students to discuss and evaluate the Bosnia peace settlement and U.S. troop deployment. 
• 
Introductory presentations 

• 
Comments and responses for audience participants 


Presenters include Col. Thomas Moe, U.S.A.F (ret.), Raimo Vayryen, David Cortright, Janie Leatherman, and Robert Johansen 
Sponsored by the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, the University of Notre Dame 
Q Forces would beg~n moving Into Bosnia when the three Balkan presidents agree to implement the pactQ 20,000 U.S. troops, with peaceful intent and "absolutely minimar violence.
headquartered in Tuzla, would take orders only from the American Q The import ol major weapons has been barred for general who commands NATO and six months. II that tails to achieve more of abalance would have the authority to respond between Bosnian Muslim and Serb forces, the United with Ioree to any threat against them. States is prepared to help arm and train the Muslims. 
Current and newly accepted possessions ae ollt/22/95 M E!osntan government· :---l Rebel 
Croat federation ·'="' Serb -New partldOilllne 
YUGOSI..i.VIA 
(~I
Adrl11fo 9ft 


By RICHARD PYLE 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

A weekend break-in at a campaign office of millionaire presidential candidate Steve Forbes evoked comparison with history's most famous burglary but campaign officials called it a random act. 
A fax machine and a copying machine were stolen, a com­puter and printer were left on, and computer disks had been gone through in Forbes' office at the Penn Plaza hotel around dawn Saturday, police said. 
Forbes' New York campaign director, Tom Slater, said Mon­day a bag containing about 400-500 campaign petition blanks also was lifted. Despite that, Slater said, campaign officials still believe the break­in was a random act and do not expect it to impede Forbes' efforts to get on the GOP state primary ballot. 
As of Monday there were no new developments and no sus­pects, said Officer Noreen Mur­ray, a Police Department spokeswoman. "The case is being aggressively investigat­ed. There is no determination at this time that this was any­thing other than a burglary," she said. 
Even that, however, offered eehoes of 1972, when a team of burglars hired by President Nixon's re-election committee broke into Democratic Party headquarters at Washington's Watergate hotel complex and rifled files. 
The Watergate burglary and ensuing White House cover-up ultimately brought down Nixon, who resigned as President in 197 4 rather than face impeachment. 
Forbes campaign officials pooh-poohed any suggestion that the latest incident also was politically inspired. 
Catholic New Testament 
Douay Rlleims · Mac or Wi11dows S19.95 + S&H, dowllload.from http://www.webpres.rom/ douay I E-mail: douay · lnfo@webprrs.com 
Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 

Official Wholesale Price List! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. MWihington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Fret 32-Pagt Color Catalog Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 lnttmt/ Catalog at hnp: l/www.sapeck. comlsaptck 


page 6 Tuesday, November 28, 1995 

Canada proposes plan 
three 
···the U.S.-registered

to prevent secession 
1Vlt:a1IJLua Lee, overdue on a voy­
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 

TORONTO 
Seeking to head off another secession attempt, the federal government proposed Monday to recognize Quebec formally as a distinct society and offered to give it a veto over constitu­tional change. 
The widely expected initia­tives have been rejected in ad­vance by Quebec's separatist government, which narrowly lost an independence referen­dum Oct. 30 and intends to re­peat a breakaway attempt within the next few years. 
Still, Prime Minister Jean Chretien hopes the gestures toward Quebec will persuade a majority of voters in the French-speaking province that their interests will be served if they remain in Canada. 
Chretien announced his plan at a news conference after briefing members of his ruling Liberal Party. The package is likely to win approval easily be­cause of the large Liberal ma­jority in the House of Com­
mons. 
The plan includes: 

•
Recognition in a Commons resolution that Quebec is a dis­tinct society within Canada that includes a French-speaking majority, a unique culture and a tradition of civil law. 

•Passing 
a law in Parliament giving four regions -Quebec, Ontario, the Atlantic provinces and the Western provinces-a veto over any constitutional change. 

•Withdrawal 
by the federal government from job training, leaving this program in the hands of provincial authorities. 


None of the changes would 
be  entrenched  in  the  
Constitution.  
"The initiatives I am  an­ 

nouncing today are substan­tial," Chretien said. "They are not constitutional in nature be­cause the government of Que­bec has stated categorically that it does not want to participate in constitutional discussions." 

age from Tonga, after Mrs. Sleavin was found at Deep Water Cove, near the Bay of Islands tourist area. 
Mrs. Sleavin, who has not spoken to the media since the res<;ue, :told police a large 

' ' ·• •• ship bore down on their boat, one of eight yachts sail­ing as a flotilla from Tonga to New Zealand. 
Retired Sausalito salesman Chris Wagner, 55, and his wife Nedra. of Sausalito, Calif .• said their yacht Magic Carpet was part of the group. They tracked five cargo ships in the area with radar in the hours before the collision. 
Wagner said he radioed each ship to be on the look out for yachts "but only one re­sponded." 

Radio New Zealand reported that officials were investigating whether a Russian-registered ship, Kapitan Byankin, was in· volved. The ship's captain, Alexander Anatoriric, told New .....,.. • . . Press Association: "I 
lQ,o.l(··,:fti.;:o·.,.• don't know of any accident." 
Because all-nighters arerit always spent in the librarY. 

It's everYV\ihere you want to be 
Tuesday, November 28, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Subway firebombing imitates recent movie scene 
By TOM HAYS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
There were no arrests and few leads in the torching of a subway token booth on Mon­day, but Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and police officials pointed the finger at one al­leged culprit: Hollywood. 
In a virtual replay of scenes from the new movie "Money Train," two men squeezed a flammable liquid into a subway 
FRIDAY 


LaFORTUNE BALLROOM NINE TIL TWO 
token booth on Sunday and ig­nited it, blowing it up and criti­cally burning the clerk. 
"That just may be an eerie and frightening coincidence, but coming only a few days af­ter the movie was released, it offers a powerful reminder of the influence Hollywood has over our society and our cul­ture," Dole said while cam­paigning in Iowa for the Repub­lican presidential nomination. 
"Those who work in Holly­wood's corporate suites must 
DEC 1 
also be willing to accept their share of the blame," Dole said later on the Senate floor. "Is this how they want to make their livelihoods? Is this their contribution to society?" 
A statement from Columbia Pictures, which released the film, said its makers were "appalled and dismayed" by the real-life fire. But a Columbia spokesman, Ed Russell, wouldn't comment on whether the studio acknowl­edged a possible connection. 
Dole's comments echoed those made earlier by Police Commissioner William Bratton and city transit officials. They, too, cited the new action movie as a possible blueprint for the crime. 
The clerk, Harry Kaufman, was in extremely critical condi­tion Monday with third-degree burns over 80 percent of his body. The motive was appar­ently robbery. 
"Somebody blew up my booth .... Please help me," 
Kaufman told a police officer as he came up the station stairs, screaming and in flames. 
Kaufman, 50, told investiga­tors that one of the attackers had used a soda bottle to squirt the liquid through the token slot and the other man lighted it. 
A fire-prevention system de­signed to release a flame-sti­lling chemical never went ofT in the Brooklyn subway booth. The two men fled, leaving be­hind a rille. 

Model death points to others 
By ANNIE SHOOMAN 
Associated Press 
TORHANCE, Calif. 
A photographer pleaded not guilty Monday to a charge of murdering a model whose body was found buried in the moun­tains and a newspaper reported that police wondered if they had a serial killer on their hands. 
Pictures of women who look dead were found in the home of photographer Charles Hathbun, the Daily Breeze of Torrance reported. 
"We may be looking at a se­rial killer," the newspaper quoted a source as saying. 
Hathbun, 38, was arraigned Monday on a charge of third­degree murder. He pleaded not guilty and bail was set at $1 million. 
The shackled defendant, ban­daged on both wrists after a jail suicide attempt with a razor blade, listened intently as Mu­nicipal Court Judge Benjamin Aranda asked if he understood the proceedings. "I under­stand," Rathbun said softly. 
A JaiL 5 hearing was or­dered. The judge granted de­fense requests that Rathbun be 
Prayer Vigil in Opposition to the Execution of Gary Burris 
Tuesday,November 28 
11:45 PM, 12:15 AM Law School Lounge Gary Burris will be the second person to be executed in the state of Indiana within the past year. His execution is scheduled for 12:01 AM on Wednesday, November 29. Please join for prayer and reflection at the time of his execution. Some thoughts will be provided by Dean David T. Link, Father Richard V. Warner CSC and members of the Notre Dame Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty and Amnesty International. 
Everyone is welcome! For additional information contact John Blakely, Law School Box 212. 
Also, there will be a group of students making the forty--five minute drive to the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City for an on--site protest. Please contact Art Cody, Law School Box 19, if interested. 
Finally, Governor Evan Bayh has the authority to stop this execution. Please join the many others who have voiced their protest. His fax num-­ber is (317)232--3443. 

permitted to shower, shave and make calls to his family and at­torney. 
Deputy District Attorney Stephen R. Kay, who co-prose­cuted Charles Manson, will prosecute Hathbun. 
Linda Sobek, a former Los Angeles Haiders cheerleader, vanished Nov. 16, leaving a message saying she was going to a modeling assignment, but not giving details. Family and friends said she had worked with Hathbun before. 
Rathbun was arrested Wednesday after trying to shoot himself at his home. On Friday, he led investigators to Sobek's body, buried in a shallow grave in the Angeles National Forest. 
lie said she died accidentally when he struck her with a sport utility vehicle while trying to show her how to drive it in "doughnuts," a series of tight spins. 
The Daily Breeze, however, said Sobek was apparently as­phyxiated. 
"At the present time, that re­port is premature," said Craig Harvey, a coroner's office spokesman. 
Coroner's office officials ear­lier had discounted Rathbun's claim that Sobek was struck by a vehicle. The newspaper quot­ed its source as saying dozens of photographs of women found in Rathbun's Hollywood clearly portray death, although there was no blood or weapons shown. 
Police were attempting to contact all the models in the photos to make sure they are all right, the newspaper said. 
The Police Department in Hermosa Beach, where Sobek lived, referred reporters to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department, which was leading the homicide investigation. 


1*/·1 I !A:I :t·\914;13;j 4 d tl 
'P£R PERSON OO'(IDHG OM OESTINATOt t8REM. DAlts I UJGTH OF STAY 
1~soo.:.su~CU4S'E 
TOLL J'WI1 IN~•noll &.1111SI1R\'.TIOIIU 
011-IMII TOMWDSin Af. 


page 8 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 28, 1995 

Grant 
continued from page 1 
which were spoken in the Ro­man empire. Romance lan­guages taught at Notre Dame include French, Italian and Spanish. 
The Dr. Scholl Foundation grant will bring the number of endowed professorships to 106 at Notre Dame. 
The Dr. Scholl Foundation was established in 1947 by William Scholl, M.D., as a pri­vate, independent grant mak­ing foundation. 
The founder of the famous foot care products business which also bears his name, Dr. Scholl died in 1968 at the age of 85, leaving the bulk of his estate to the foundation. 

Cheating 
continued from page 1 
course for the semester; a mi­nor would result in zero credit for that test. 
However, if any of the stu­dents have been found guilty of a previous offense, the possibil­ity of suspension or expulsion exists. 
Furthermore, if the dean deems a first offense to be major enough, additional penalties, including suspension or expulsion, may be consid­
r ered appropriate. 
James Peterson, assistant professor of finance and chief
f of the Finance Honesty Committee, declined to com­ment. Attempts to reach Professor Battalio and the Dean of the Business School were unsuc­cessful. 
Aristide promises to abide by schedule 
By MICHAEL NORTON Cabinet is to consider a resolu­tions to take place ... We expect peaceful, democratic change of Associated Press tion Wednesday calling for him to leave." leaders in two decades. Aristide to cancel the election On Monday, White House The United States has also in­POHT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti and stay in office to make up press secretary Mike McCurry tervened to stem a resurgentAfter a week of uncertainty for the three years he lost in said the administration recog­flood of Haitians trying to flee 
that unnerved local politicians exile. nizes the "enormous pressure" 
the country's poverty. as well as top U.S. officials, Aristide himself has stirred on Aristide to remain in office. More than 50 percent of 
President Jean-Bertrand Aris­the confusion. Last week, he "But at the same time, we 
Haiti's 7 million people are job­

t i d e said he agreed with the resolu­hope that our persuasiveness less. promised tion, which came from a na­has some role too," he added. Forty-seven Haitians desper­
Monday to tional conference monopolized Aristide was deposed in a ate to reach U.S. shoresabide by by his supporters. At the same coup in September 1991. The drowned off the north coast ofelections to time, the president says he United States led the military Haiti, Radio Metropole reported
choose his would not violate the constitu­intervention that restored Aris­Monday. successor. tion, which bars consecutive tide in October last year, and The private station said they
"I am leav­terms as president. has pressured Aristide to step drowned Friday night when ing on Feb. Victor Benoit, one of 14 pres­down to complete Haiti's first their sailboat capsized. 7," the Rev. idential hopefuls, has called Jean-Yves upon Aristide to spell out his in­Urfie quoted Aristide as saying tentions. in an interview with Libete, an The Clinton administration independent Creole-language has reacted coldly to sugges­weekly newspaper that the tions that the election plans be priest founded and directs. changed. 
d::rND EUROPEAN 
Urfie said Aristide also "President Aristide has said cleared up doubts about the that there will be an inaugura­election, saying they would be tion of a new president next held as scheduled Dec. 17. The February," National Security 
BUSINESS SEMINAR
interview is to be published Adviser Anthony Lake said Wednesday. Sunday on ABC's Still, in a contradiction that "This Week With David has left many perplexed, Haiti's Brinkley." "We expect the elec-


Summer 7996 May J3 -June JBth 
All majors k St. Mary's welcome! 
Call Prof. Appel 63l-S26S 
----~ 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 28, 1995 
page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRF. DAME Oi'FICE: 1'.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S Oi'FICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elilabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Vic-wpomt Editor .................. Michad O'llara Ad Design Manager ......................Jrn Mackowiak Spans F.ditor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accen1 Editor ,., ...................... Kri!lota Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean l;allavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Controller ...................................... Eric Lorge 
The Ob~crv~r is the indc:pcnJcm n~wspaper puhlislwd by rhc studems of the Univt.•rsiry of Notre D.1mC' du l...1.c .-nd Sam! M.-ry·~ College. It Jnes not necessarily reflecl the policies of the adminisua­tion of tither inMitutioo. The news i!i! reported as accurately and objectively >lS possible:. Unsigned edi­rorial> represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in·Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accr-nr Editor, Photn Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comml"ntarics, lctrers .mc.J lnsidr Columns present tht· views of the authors, and noL ncces.!-.arily those of The Observer. Vicwpoim space is available to all memhers of rhe Notre Damr/Sainr Mary's com­munity and w <.lll readers. The: free expression of varying opinions through lecrers is encouraged. 
r:ditor-in-Chief 631-4542 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Manugi ng Editor IV iewpoint; 6 31-General Infonnat ion 6 31-7 4 71 4541 Business Office 631-5313 Spot t t; 631-4543 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Pholu 631-5323 Systerns/Marketlng Dept. 63 AccenL/Saint Mary's 631-4540 8839 

• ~1'10 IN THIS CORNER 
Recipe for a disastrous holiday season 
Lnt's say, just as an example, you recently got a part-time job from some big, nameless corporation who likes to hire desperate "will work for food" fools like yourself for the Christmas rush. And let's say you come down with flu-like symptoms the weekend before you begin to work on a regu­lar basis. 
from the toilet bowl to the hallway linoleum, cascading gently from under­neath the lid to form rivulets about your ankles. And, for some reason, it is another two to three minutes before you think to call out to your roommate, "Uh, I think we have a problem." 
By the time 
either of you 
But now that have figured out you finally have what is going on, got the job you the raging river needed at thn has deepened to beginning of the two inches semester, you between the tub
Matt Applecan't not work and the sink cup-because of' some boards and is on silly littln snuffiing the verge of and coughing. snaring your 
Thus you pop a few over-the­counter antihistamines and wind up with your brainpan floating approxi­malnly tnn !'net above your body during your entire eight-hour shift. This is after you've almady walknd back and forth a mile to campus for three hours of' class that morning, then taken a bus to work with a dozen other sneezing and hack­ing walking-flu zombies. 
Fast forward to the end of the day. It is about ten at night, and you have just trudgnd home from your ordeal. Your apartment still has no effective way of !waling itself, what with electric base­hoard heaters and no walls between the kitdwn. dining room and living room, and with a huge single-pane glass slid­ing door for the outside wall. It was just a day ago that you took notice of the four-ineh thick mold residue clinging to tlw sides of the windows. hidden by the blinds. 
lnstinetivnly, you lwad for the fridge to get. what elstl, a beer. And on your nwrry way to the kitchen, you pass the bathroom and notice that you have unknowingly stepped in somnthing wet. You turn the hall light on, then the bath­room light, and notice for the first Lime that tl111rH is a small waterfall gurgling 
• «UR' 
bicycles near the 
outside door. Luckily, the water has been partially absorbed by the rugs on the living room floor and at the edges of your bedrooms, but still the water comes and your live bath towels and three extra bed sheets are not enough to stem the tide. You cannot think how else to stop the toilet from running, so you twist a metal coat hanger around the plunger and attach it to a hand towel rack above the tank. This you think is pure genius. 
Then there is that moment of truth when you discover that the lease has lied to you. There are no emergency maintenance numbers on the office answering machine. You try to reach the landlords at their personal numbers, but nobody's home. The downstairs neigh­bor, whose name you never quite remember, has now shown up four times to complain that water is seeping down his bedroom wall. Your roommate seems to recall that the maintenance man himself lives across the street, somewhere, and eventually locates the man's apartment. But he is not there, most likely because tonight is Monday Night Football and he is probably at a bar somewhere enjoying the game. You leave messages at every answering machine and hope someone gets them tomorrow morning. 
All you can do is get rid of the water. By now, you have exhausted your towel supply, but fortunately you finally lind a use for the pennysaver, which the paperboy leaves in bundles outside the apartment building's front door. It takes only fourteen or so of them to soak up the 
than Friday, yet the bus mess. Congratulations, services did not change you have now been 'The Thanksgiving their times. A phone call standing in cold Break would not be to the headquarters sewage water on a revealed that in fact
complete without a
moldy tile floor in a there will be no extend­frigid apartment in short and nasty diatribe ed holiday service for bare feet and inky any bus line at any time
concerning South
newsprint hands for during November or two hours. It is now Bend's pathetic bus sys­December. time for Beavis and You'd think that more
tem... Obviously local 
Butthead. people would want to For some reason, merchants don't want shop on the weekend in you are not surprised South Bend for
students without cars to when you wake up Christmas. You'd think with an ear infection spend money.' that plenty of people 
the following morning. And you have to go to work for four more hours. The health services gives you antibiotics for the ear infection, which may last two weeks, and you take decongestants as well, giv­ing you a constant headache and runny nose. Now you can't even drink rum and eggnog on Thanksgiving. 
This is all theoretical, of course. I'm not even going to tell you the embar­rassing theoretical reason for the over­flow. 
The Thanksgiving Break would not be complete without a short and nasty dia­tribe concerning South Bend's pathetic bus system. At first, I was told that the busses here were perpetually late and never went anywhere useful. Then I found out that, for the most part, they are on time during the week and go pretty much where you need to go. Then 1 found out that the busses have limited hours on Saturday and no hours on Sunday, whieh is always a drawback for anyone without a car who needs to work 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
13UAU5!3 TH/3 7EO-f­
N(X(X3Y &X./STS. 
AL..SO., &VeRYONf3. USE HAS ON8. 

on the weekend. 
This past Saturday, however, simply blew my mind. Black Friday, tllfl first official shopping day of the "Holiday season," enjoyed full and complete bus service, up to the usual 9:30 pm time slot. Saturday (I don't know if it's called "Black Saturday," but it should be) was 
as busy if not busier 
with no cars would want 

to shop on the weekend during the next live weeks. You'd think that, in fact, there are plenty of poor schmucks such as myself who cannot afford a car and do not have reliable access to a car (or cannot or do not want to force their friends to drive them everywhere at whim) who will need to take the bus to go to work for busy mer­chants on the busy weekends. Where is the sense of not having a later bus schedule for a Saturday? And I suppose nobody ever wants to go to the movies on a Saturday night? 
There is no sense in this. None. Either sense or cents. Obviously local mer­chants don't want students or local resi­dents without cars to spend money. Or they simply expect any decent American eitizen to own one. 
Matthew Apple is a Creative Writing graduate student at Notre Dame. Leave him a messa_qe at matthew. t. apple. I @nd. edu at the sound ofthe beep. 
• Quo-, o 
"Aculture which leaves 
unsatisfied and drives to rebelliousness so large anum­ber of its members neither has a prospect of continued exis­tence nor deserves it." 
-Sigmund Freud 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, November 28, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Wars not waged for prestige 
Moral relativism 
Dear Editor: wouldn't dare attempt to match intellectual wits As a person who strongly believes that there against someone in the Creative Writing gradu­
obstructs 
comes a time to grow up and assume a responsi­ate program; however. I cannot help but believe ble position in both society and the workforce, I that the U.S. government's decision to wage a am not 'familiar with Notre Dame's Creative civil war in order to (1) protect the Union from Writing graduate program. However, after read­secession and (2) abolish the abhorrent institu­
cultural dialogue 
ing Matthew Apple's petulant tion of slavery was more logical bratty temper-tantrum than a decision to wage war 
Dear Editor: directed against virtually simply for personal prestige. 
Matthew Apple subscribes to both moral relativism and every benefit and privilege (Prestige that was, in Iroquoian 
moral absolutism in his recent column about the Columbus that this society has given to ' A. fter reading society, apparently reserved for 
murals. His statements seem to reflect the contradicti-ons him ["Columbus and his males only. I suppose that I am inherit in many multicultural arguments.
1-\.Matthew Apple's
Supporters -the Eurocentric not "multi-cultured" enough to 
Early in his essay Matthew (I feel I'm on a first name basis Savages," Observer, Nov. 14, petulant, bratty temper­recognize the gender equity with anyone in the Notre Dame family) offers a cultural 
1995), I am convinced that tantrum directed against there.) Unfortunately, the incon­
explanation for the existence of human sacrifice among the the Creative Writing gradu­sistency evident in Apple's petu­Native Americans. He implies (or atleast gives the reader
virtually every benefit
ate program does not teach· lant little tirade is not surpris­
ample opportunity to infer) that people of European descent its students to present con­and privilege that this ing. Apple's sheltered world of 
should not view such practices as savage or absolutely sistent arguments. I am also graduate-level Creative Writing wrong; how dare we judge their culture by our standards'?
society has given to him,
disturbed by Apple's utter has obviously prevented him 
However, a few paragraphs later Matthew argues that lack of tolerance and empa­I am convinced that the from learning that it is not possi­
Westerners "could learn a few things" about environmental­thy for other individuals. ble to "have it both ways." 
ism and feminism from the Huron? But what could we possi­Creative Writing gradu­
During his tantrum, Apple Apple's hateful, and elitist, 
bly learn? Since there are no absolutes in issues of morality, acknowledged that the ate program does not characterization of all men and 
why is a culture which reveres women and Nature better Iroquoian-speaking peoples women who have served in the 
than one which does not? If multiculturalism prohibits the were exposed to the horrors U.S. military as "brainless" andteach its students to 
condemnation of certain Native American practices, it also of combat long before present consistent argu­"hormonally rabid" should also 
proscribes the praise of others. Therefore, Matthew's admi­Christopher Columbus was be addressed. Currently, there 
ration of the Huron seems to belie his earlier commitments to even born. Apple then are over 700,000 men and ments. I am also dis­
multiculturalism and moral relativism.
turbed by Apple's utter 
implied that this Iroquoian women in the U.S. military. 
Extreme multiculturalism and moral relativism obstruct 
warfare was justified lack of tolerance ... "' While depicting all of these indi­
meaningful dialogue between different peoples and retard because, among other things, viduals as less intelligent and 
the moral evolution of a culture. If we are terrified to label "it was the principle means less virtuous is apparently good 
anything (in another culture or in our own) as "good" or by which young men for Apple's psyche, the gross 
"bad," then we as a people cannot identify the shortcomings acquired personal prestige stereotyping of over one-half 
in our society and appreciate the beauty of other nations. and won a respected place for themselves as million people (many of whom were simply not 
Ironically, undiscriminating views of culture and morality can adult members of society." afforded the same economic and educational 
become the best defenders of ethnocentricity and the status If Apple wants to believe that personal prestige opportunities that were given to Apple} betrays 
. quo: don't try to learn from other cultures and make your is an acceptable reason for a society to wage an elitist attitude that is unbecoming of a gradu­
culture better. because "better" does not exist. Yet at the war, then he is certainly entitled to do so. ate student. Apple would be well advised to 
1foundations of both Christianity and liberalism lies the belief However, it is wholly inconsistent for him to then devote his energy to more charitable and produc­
:l)l,~}lat ~e can make our world more noble, more just, more condemn the U.S. government's heartbreaking -tive endeavors -such as tutoring Cristiane 
1g.¥ind,. ·May we .never sacrfice this hope to the gods of rela· but necessary -decision to wage the Civil War as Likely. 
· tivism and nmltieulturalism. 

@:::
simply an undertaking designed "to keep [the 
United States'] brainless, hormonally rabid JOHN DAY 

CHARLIE MCCOY youths occupied." As a third-year law student, I 3rd year law student 
Graduate student in ffi;jthematics 

'Right Reason' contradicts its own terms 
Dear Editor: which they wished to flog: their so­will continue to present itself as both desires and preferences full reign. So 
R
A student paper calling itself "Right called orthodoxy. Unfortunately for Mr. orthodox and conservative. Right the so-called orthodoxy of Right Reason, Reason" has recently published its inau­Maloney, the Catholic Church itself has Reason is free to be self-contradictory, if just as its so-called conservatism, is gural issue here. Its editor is Mr. Dan pronounced against the economic poli­it so desires. The reason for this is that really nothing more than an extreme lib­Maloney, one of my fellow philosophy cies of the new right, in very strong it is really neither an orthodox nor a ertarianism. graduate students. Mr. Maloney will not words. I quote from the encyclical conservative publication, but as Mr. It should be obvious to all that such a take offense, I am sure, if I take this "Quadrigesimo Anno" by Pope Pius XI, Maloney states in his editorial, a liber­form of libertarianism is at root a deeply opportunity to point out a rather serious issued in 1931: tarian one. un-Christian doctrine. For one of the contradiction in the aims of this publica­"Just as the unity of human society It is not conservative, because its main ideas behind Christianity as a reli­tion, as stated in his piece on page two. cannot be founded on an opposition of founders assume that they may marry gion is that the Good is rational and ight Reason is to be an orthodox classes, so also the right ordering of eco­their narrow type of orthodoxy with knowable. Thus with a loss of faith in paper. This means, according to Mr. nomic life cannot be left to a free com­their favorite political and economic pol­the Good as .knowable and the ethical Maloney, that it will adhere strictly to petition of forces. For from this source, icy (which happens to be new right con­universe as rational, as in contemporary the teachings of the Magisterium of the as from a poisoned spring, have origi­servatism), thereby producing their own Europe, came a loss of faith in a religion Roman Catholic Church. My under­nated and spread all the errors of indi­doctrinal flavor. They make no attempt which preaches an intelligible universe. standing of this is somewhat as follows: vidualist economic teaching. Destroying to defend their inclusion of conservatism With all due respect, Mr. Maloney, I Right Reason will be the champion of a through forgetfulness or ignorance the on any grounds other than their mistak­submit that your publication is strict Tridentine ecclesiology, according social and moral character of economic en assumption that it does not contra­guilty of the same narrow partisanship to which the Church is kept free from life, it held that economic life must be dict their brand of orthodoxy. In other which you claim is destroying the fabric error in its moral teaching by the mysti­considered and treated as altogether words, their conservatism is arrived at, of American society. cal presence of the Holy Spirit. free from and independent of public not by rational insight into which politi­You say that your country is becoming 
Of course, according to such an eccle­authority, because in the market, i.e., in cal premises promote what is true or unmoored, that the states are barely siology, much of what goes on at Notre the free struggle of competitors, it would what is good, but by the principle of united, and there is no 'unum' from Dame, especially in the department of have a principle of self direction which free and unhindered choice on the basis 'pluribus'. But by its avowed policy of Theology, should go out the window. governs it much more perfectly than of personal preference. They are, after extreme libertarianism, its committment As I am not an expert in such matters, I would the intervention of any created all, utter libertarians. to a philosophy according to which dis­can only venture the opinion that few intellect. So Right Reason is not conservative cussion of principles is useless, Right people in the department of Theology But free competition, while justified except in a derivative sense. But why Reason is simply another fragment in subscribe to such an ecclesiology, and so and certainly useful provided it is kept is it not orthodox? It is not orthodox, this fragmented society, using bad would have a different definition from within certain limits, clearly cannot again, because its narrow version of rhetoric to flog its own position to the Mr. Maloney of what counts as "ortho­direct economic life-a truth which the orthodoxy is only made possible by the already converted, and hoping to win dox." Be that as it may, the point stands outcome of the application in practice of libertarian assumptions of the founders. the unconvinced over to its camp that Mr. Maloney defines orthodoxy as the tenets of this evil individualistic spir­It is an orthodoxy by decision. No through the techiques of persuasion. strict adherence to the teaching of the it has more than sufficiently demon­attempt is made to justify their choice of Mr. Maloney, you are left with a choice Magisterium of the Roman Catholic strated. Therefore, it is most necessary Tridentine ecclesiology. No attempt is more basic than the one which I out­Church. that economic life be again subjected to made to engage with those who may dis­lined above, between conservatism and 
Mr. Maloney also informs us, however, and governed by a true and effective agree with them, on the level of premis­orthodoxy. You may continue to publish that Right Reason is also to be a conser­directing principle." es. One must either accept their eccle­your paper as a partisan paper dedicat­vative paper. He states that he sees no Mr. Maloney and his publication, siology, i.e. their premises, or reject it. ed to the consequences of your chosen contradiction between orthodoxy as therefore, are left with a choice. Thus their orthodoxy is not so much principles. Or you may begin to publish defined above, and conservatism. By Right Reason may choose to be an orthodoxy, as what they themselves pre­a paper which accepts articles regard­conservatism Mr. Maloney means eco­orthodox publication, as it defines ortho­fer, and choose to dignify with the term less of their viewpoint, but which engage nomic and political conservatism, that doxy, and consequently give up its new orthodoxy. the reader on the level of a true discus­is, he means a commitment to free-mar­right conservatism. Or it may choose to From a standpoint of extreme libertar­sion of political, economic and religious ket economics, reduction in social inter­be a conservative publication, and so ianism, of course, arguments about first principles. I hope that you choose vention by the government, reduction of give up its claim to its own brand of premises serve no purpose. We are the latter. taxes, etc. In short, the complete candy orthodoxy. Choosing both would be self­unable to come to any rational insight box of the new right. contradiction. into the true or the good anyway, and 
However, in desiring to flog this sec­I predict, however, that if a second the best that we can hope for is to clear D. GREGORY MACISAAC ond position, Mr. Maloney and his new issue of Right Reason does appear, it a space for individual liberty, which of 4th year graduate student paper run afoul of the first position will choose neither of these options, and course means allowing our subjective Philosophy 
----------------------------------, 
I I 
.. 
ACC~NT 
Tucsdav, November 28, 1995 page 11 

By MARK FUSSA 
Acccll! Writ<"r 
V
iolist Dan Sigale has come a long way since he first began playing stringnd instruments. At the age of four, his greatest aehii~VI~IIlllllt was playing "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star." Now. the twenty-six-y1~ar-old has bnen given a scholarship to attend a music festival in .Jerusalem with some of the lwst up-and-coming musicians from across the globe. 
Sigale is exeited about the opportunity to pi with a "good group of peo pin and a good program" he will have while spending four weeks in Israel during the upcoming Winter Break. The ensemble will play several con­certs for what Sigale hopes will he an enthusiastic crowd, and tlwy will then break up into several smaller chamber groups for a week of intensive stHninars and performances. The music festival will culmi­nate on .January 14 when the chamber groups offer a recital. 
The honor of being selected to attend this festival comes in tlw final year of Sigale's studies at Notre Damn. After receiving his und11rgraduate degree from DePaul University, he went on to Northwestern to receive his Master of Music and I'Brforrnaru:e degree. 
Currnntly, Sigale is enrolled in tlw second year of a two­year Advanct~d Master's pro­gram with the Notre Dame Music Dnpartment. lie will spend mudr of the spring audi­tioning for chairs in the viola snctions of orchestras around tlw nation. 
The twenty-two years of Sigale's musical eareer have been times of adjustment and rhange...andhave not always inc:luded the viola. Sigale explains that he began playing stringed instruments because "My mother made me do it." lie soon discovered, however, that playing the violin was also "something people enjoyed and something that made me feel special." 
Sigale's high school teacher, noticing the talent of the 
young pupil, felt that he 
would suceeed as the prin­cipal viola player, and trans­ferred him to that instrument. Sigale welcomed the change, saying "l was motivated to try something different. I was tirnd of the violin." Thus, Dan began playing the viola, which is similar to a violin, but slight­ly larger and with a deeper sound. By his sophomore year, Sigale led the viola section of his school orchestra and later reeeived a chair in the Chicago 
/1 tile ~ 
By CATHERINE DEELY 
Arcrm Copy EJiwr 
'Grandfather-in-resi­
dence. "This simple 
phrase, uttllred gently 
and ae(:ompanind by a twin­
kling-nyml grin, semns striking­
ly undnrstatml when related to 
its spnaker. A man who was 
among Notre Dame's premier 
dwmistry proft~ssors for nearly 
40 years, who played a great 
part in devising and imple­
menting the Freshman Year of 
Studitls program, who has been 
honored by a tribute in the 
United States Congressional 
Hecord and numerous academ­
ic and human excellence 
awards-including the 11J85 
C:oundl for Advancement and 
Support of Education recogni­
tion as orw of the top professors 
in tlw nation-summarizing his 
most important position at ND 
in thrtHl modest words'? 
For tlw many who have been 
fortunatn nnough to have Dr. 
Emil Hofman somehow toueh 
tlwir livns. tlw modesty, the 
snntinwnt, and the aptness of 
tlw dnscription come as no sur­
prisn. 
If tangihln evidence of Dr. 
Hofman's achievements and 
aecoladtlS during his 46-year 
earnnr at Notre Dame is all that 
is desirml, 11nding the facts is 
not difficult. Prior articles, 
c:ountlnss dedieations, lists and 
ehronologins can be found 
across campus. Yet Dr. 
Hofman's lasting legacy under 
~ 
the Golden Dome can be most effectively captured by the appreciation of what and who he has bP.en to the students of NO sinco his formal retirement in Septembor of 191JO. 
Evnn at first glance, Dr. llofman projects both the knowledgnability of a lifelong educator and the jovial ease of a born mcntm. Indeed, while Hofman has readily passed on his oflkial input in interacting with ND undergrads-a ere­ative process which once included organizing Freshman Date Nights and interquad snowball fights-to the capable hands of Student Affairs, retire­ment has not quelled his desire to interact with student Domers... nor their desire to learn from him. 
Hather than neatly shelve Notre Dame into the past after retirement, Dr. Hofman is a daily presence on campus. His office in Nicuwland Science Hall is still occupied...and its door. always open. ''I'm not here to interfere with or replace any part of the admin­istration now," he explains. "I'm herA to offer help and guidance to students, should they need it." 
And the need is always there. From treating a fledgling fresh­man Observer reporter to lunch, to providing a listening ear and a world of experience for a myriad of collegiate uncertainties, Hofman's enthu­siasm for the Notre Dame fami­ly is unwavering. 
Youth Symphony Orchestra. 
Today, music is the major faeet of Sigale's life, and he is deeply involved in bringing it to others. As a graduate assis­tant, he teaches other students and leads the viola section of the Notre Dame Orchestra. lie has also extended his musical talents into the surrounding community, where he teaches the viola at two Elkhart schools 
and provides private 
lessons . 
Dan Sigale's voice is also 
familiar to anyone who tunes 
into WSND on Monday after­noons from one to four o'clock, when he hosts a classical con­cert program. Always eager to promote music, Sigale is work­ing with station officials to help the promotion of more music department events over the air­waves. 
This spring, however, his 
focus will be on the 
February recital, which 
is the equivalent of a 
master's thesis. Most 
likely, in Sigale's case, 
this will include a 
number of works by 
his favorite composers, 
Johannes Brahms and 
the twentieth century artists Bela Bartok and Paul Hindemith. 
When Sigale departs for Jerusalem in December, the festival will, he hopes. make classical music interesting to those who do not truly appreci­ate it. The assembly of so many young people should help to dispel the myth that "classi­cal music is something for old people, rich people, or stuffy people." With enthusiastic backers like Dan Sigale, that myth may soon become history. 
Z'tmee 
This enthusiasm is perhaps best evidenced by Dr. Hofman's involvement with the women of Lewis Hall. First called upon to assist in the undergraduate integration process when Lewis initially became an undergrad­uate residence, the New Jersey­born father of three sons soon discovered a special affinity for acting as father figure ...for a building of females. llis devo­tion to the Chickens grew into a closeness that led to his appointment as Lewis's Hall Fellow, a position he still holds. Each Wednesday evening, Dr. Hofman can be spotted in Lewis's lobby...quickly identi­fied by the circle of students who trickle in to share a story, inquire about a particular course or career choice, unbur­den a trouble or two ... or simply listen and learn. 
Lewis Hall is not the only facet of ND to have benefitted from Dr. Hofman's association. Hofman travels to Notre Dame Alumni Clubs nationwide, speaking to ND grads and ncr­vous prospective freshmen and parents alike. Also annually, Dr. Hofman films a video illus­trating the academic, the social, and the purely mystical highlights of Notre Dame stu­dent life. 
lie has had a profound impact on Notre Dame's history and Notre Dame's future-and yet, he can cheerfully refer to himself simply as "Grandfather­in-Residence" ... and be speaking the truth. 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
The Power of Music 
ByJOHN GALVIN 
Ac,enr Medical Correspo!'dcnt 
-----··--­

Read This. 
Music has changed your life. It is a force whil:h reflects and 
invokes a spectrum of your moods and actions. It is not 
unusual, therefore, to lind this force as a valuable tool in the 
healing process. Stemming from Eastern medicine, music 
therapy has been recently established as an elfeetive compo­
nent of rehabilitation from emotional and physical handicaps. 
Music thtlrapy uses a variety of music to aid in a physical, 
psychological and emotional integration of the individual. It 
can be applied to all age groups, in a variety of treatment set­
tings. Music, despite its non-verbal quality, offers a wide 
opportunity for verbal and vocal expression. The nature of 
music therapy provides a viable and humanistic approach 
that recognizes and develops the often untapped inner 
resources of the person. It enables the individual to move 
towards an improved self-concept, and in the broadest sense, 
to develop each human being to his or her greatest potential. 
In order to expand my and, therefore. your knowledge on 
the meaning of music-1 contaeted a few friends. I hope their 
perspectives can help you realize the power ot' music therapy. 
Grant Hill on the force of music: 
"Music has a unique and powerful influence. Ithelps to 
change behavior. It is the essence of humanness, not only 
because man creates it, but he creates his relationship to it. 
Music came into being because of man's interdependence and 
his need for expression and communication. Its multi-sensory 
stimulation allows the body to respond on various body lev­
els." 
Cher on the need for aesthetic experience and expression: 
"The great potential of man's nervous system takes him 
beyond bare animal adaptation to the aesthetic. The aesthetic 
experience may be one of the best devicfls to help him adjust 
to his environment. We are never satisfied with just the 
sounds of naturi;). As our aesthetic sensitivity develops we 
must elaborate and make more complex sensory and motor 
behavior. The universal need for aesthetic experience is not 
ephemeral. It is a physiological component of man's well 
being." 
Prime Minister Chirac on rhythm and emotion: 
"Rhythm alone makes possible the temporal order of music. 
Most people will disregard musk to which they cannot keep a 
beat. If rhythmic order cannot be established, then melody 
and harmony lose their potency. Much of music involves 
dancing. Dance involves a unity of purpose and activity. 
Rhythmic activities make working together easier, because no 
words are needed; rhythm is the common bond." 
Roger Clinton on music ns a cultural expr~ssion: 
"Music is shaped by culture, but in turn influences that cul­
ture of which itis.a part. Music is a unique phenomena which 
exists only in terms of social interaction." 
Pope John Paul on music and religion: 
"ln many religions there is a greater emphasis on group 
musieal activity as opposed to individual,~fl'orts. Music aids in 
memory, therefore transcending important dogmas. Music 
functions similarly in all socie~ies. Singing in soda! groups 
unifies ideals and promotes the feeling of acceptanee.'' 
Jermaine Jackson on music's structurt>d reality: 
"Musk has structure. Patterns of melody, pitch, rhythm, 
tempo and dynamks all dernaud a precision. All the snnses 
bring to us aspects of reality. Music can be read, heard and 
felt. Music's reality nnd slrueture make it a valuable thera­
pP-utic medium." 
Kermit the Frog on music as a source of gratification: 
"The perl'onnann~ of' rnusie usually brings a sense of gratifi­
cation, feH!ings of accomplishment and mastery. Music has 
order and predictability and both are essential for compe­
tence. Music permits and encourages each person to partici­
pate dynamically in his/her own growth and change." 
Yoko Ono on the effects of music on the peer group; 
"Music by its very nature draws people together for the pur­
pose of intimate yet ordered function. Music provides a gestalt 
of sensory, motor, emotional and social components in which 
the participants concur for tho most part. rt unHies the group 
for common action and it is this setting that eUcits or changes 
many extramusical behaviors. Group music leads to desirable 
ends wlth a minimum of verbal eomrnands." 
John Galvin on what"music therapy can do for you: 
"Whether you listen to Metalliea or John Denver, music is a 
l'oree which allows you to both maintain and communicate 
your feelings. If you find that you have a problem interacting 
with others, try using music as a new medium:" 
1. 
Be cool: give your friend a mix of his or her favorite music. 

2. 
Be romantic: write your friend a lyric poem.• 

3. 
Be suave: dam~e with your friond all night. 

4. 
Be a cheesobaU: serenado hi.m/her in the moonlight of a crisp December night. 

5. 
Be normal: forget your friend and dance around to your own music. 


John Galvin is just an average guy who writes really aver­age articles. He may be reached for questions or comments at John.P. Galvin.3@nd. edu. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 1995 

Maryland survives scare 
By DAVID GINSBURG ing. A layup by Matt Dellinger got the Associated Press Tigers within a point, but Simpkins hit a driving layup with just 12 seconds 
BALTIMORE remanining.
Johnny Rhodes scored 12 of his 2 2 Simpkins had 16 points and Booth 11 points in the final nine minutes as No: for the Terrapins, who opened the sea­14 Maryland received a huge scare from son Friday with a loss to No. 1 unheralded Towson State before rally­
Kentucky. Blalock led the Tigers with 22 ing for a 70-67 victory Monday night. 
points and Scooter Alexander added 16. Tl1e Terrapins (1-1) trailed by six Down by eight, Maryland started its points at halftime, 49-40 early in the comeback when Simpkins made a dri­
second half and 55-47 with 8:45 ving layup and backcourtmate Rhodes remaining before storming back to beat 
hit a follow shot to bring the Terrapinstheir in-state rivals for the 11th time to 55-51. A layup by Rodney Elliott and without a loss. two free throws by Rhodes tied it. But the game wasn't decided until Towson State regained the lead with a Towson State guard Ralph Blalock's 3-free throw, but Rhodes scored five 
pointer at the buzzer fell short. The straight points to put Maryland ahead Tigers (0-1) were vying for their first­for the first time since the opening eight ever victory in 22 games against 
minutes. Atlantic Coast Conference competition. Maryland scored the game's first nine
·-
Towson State took its last lead, 61-60, 
points and held a 16-10 lead before with 4:14 left. It was 65-65 when Keith Michael Keyes got seven points and 
Booth made a free throw and Duane Alexander six in a 13-2 run that put the Simpkins made two with 1:05 remain-Tigers ahead 23-18. 
Backcourttandernleads Cavs past Tribe, 87-58 
By HANK KURZ Jr. 
Associated Pr~ss 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Virginia shook off another slow start thanks to a big lift from 7 -foot-4 Chase Metheney and rolled to an 87-58 victory against William & Mary on Monday night. 
The 15th-ranked Cavaliers (2-0) extended"their string of home victories against in-state opponents to 33. 
The Cavaliers, who started slowly in their season-opener before beating Tennessee-Martin 84-65 last Friday night, missed 13 of their first 15 shots, many from in close, against the Tribe (0­
2) and trailed 9-2. 
Harold Deane's 3-pointer after 6:47 made it 9-5, but the Cavaliers really took off when Metheney entered the game about two minutes later. 
Trailing 11-5, the Cavaliers went on a 14-5 run over the next four minutes and never trailed again. Metheney started the run with a putback and added two blocks while altering countless other shots. 
·Metheney, who sat out last season with back trouble, finished with six points, 12 rebounds and six blocks in just over 16 minutes. While he was on the floor, Virginia outscored the Tribe 50-23. 
Deane led Virginia with 17 points and eight assists, while Curtis Staples had 16 points and Norman Nolan had 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
Matt Yerkey led William & Mary with 19 points, including five 3-pointers. 
On Wednesday night, the Cavaliers play No. 2 Kansas in the Great Eight at Auburn Hills, Mich. 
•NBA 

Warriors woeful from downtown, Raptors benefit 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 

If Golden State had made a few more 3-pointers, the War­riors would have beaten the Toronto Raptors on Monday night. 
But Chris Mullin missed his attempt for a game-tying 3­pointer at the buzzer, and the Toronto Raptors beat Golden State 101-98. In all, the War­riors were 3-for-21 from 3­point range. 
"We missed a ton of shots 
from point-blank range," Golden State coach Rick Adel­man said. "We didn't come out and play the way we should have in the first half, and it cost us."· 
With the loss, Golden State completed a 2-3 road trip. A win would have given the War­riors their most successful road swing of five or more games since 1981. 
"This was like a Clint I;::ast­wood movie -the good, the bad and the ugly," Adelman said. 
B.J. Armstrong missed a 3­point try for Golden State with three seconds left, but Toron­to's Jan Tabak then missed a pair of free throws. Mullin got the ball with 2.3 seconds left and his shot bounced off the rim, giving the Raptors their third straight victory. 
"We didn't come out to play. It's as simple as that," Tim Hardaway said. "And you can't take the Rap tort'\ lightly. They're expansion in name only. They've got a lot of guys who know how to win." 
Damon Stoudamire, whose layup put the Raptors up 100­96 with 20 seconds left, scored 18 points and dished off 10 as­sists. 
"We moved the ball around really well in the first half but seemed to have trouble finding the open man in the second," said Willie Anderson, who scored 17 points in the first half and finished with 26. "But give them credit. They wouldn't let us pull away." 
Tim Hardaway had 29 points and 10 assists for the Warriors. Mullin scored 24 points and pulled down a team-high 11 rebounds. 
Golden State shot 36 percent, while the Raptors shot 54 perc cent. Toronto was 5-for-11 on 3-pointers. 
Oliver Miller injured his left foot in the third quarter and was taken to hospital for pre­cautionary X-rays. 
Stoudamire made a 3-pointer closing out the first quarter, breaking a 22-22 tie. That bas­ket began an 18-2 run. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Found-Very unique piece of jewel· ry. Write to PO Box 111, NO 46556 NOTICES with full description.  WANTED FOR XMAS GIFT: Video tapes of 1995 ND Football Season. NAME YOUR PRICE. 402·551-8436  One person furnished apt. 3.5 miles from campus Must see Call after 6:00 232·0355  Round trip flight from DC to Ft.Myers. FL on 12121-1/4. $260 X2969  ADOPTION: Loving. financially secure professional couple wishes to adopt. Your baby would be cher· shised and loved in a warm and  
I I I  ~ r  Spring Break Bahamas Party LOST: Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days SOMEONE MISTAKENLY TOOK $2791 Includes 15 Meals &6 MY CALCULUS BOOK Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! AND NOTEBOOK ON MONDAY, Prices lncre<~se 11/21 & 12115! 11/13, FROM THE COPY SHOP IN Spring Break Travel1-800·678­LAFORTUNE. 6386 PLEASE CALL HANY 233-8273 OR TAKE TO LAFORTUNE Spring Break! Panama City! Early INFORMATION DESK. Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best !lost my BLUE PULLOVER JACK-Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach ET at Senior Bar last week. Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 121151 1·800·678·6386 If you have seen it it would be greatly appreciated if you could Cancun & Jamaica Spnng Break return it. Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South $$$$$$$$$$ Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Call Greg Sinnott at 4-2055. Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 WANTED Anyone going to the Springsteen concert at • ' • FREE TRIPS & CASH ' ' ' Roseland on 12/3? Find out how hundreds of students 2 people need a ride! are already earning FREE TRIPS Call Kath x2930 and LOTS OF CASH with ILOST & FOUND I America's #1 Spring Break compa· ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun. Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! GALL NOW! !!!!!!! LOST !!!!!!!! TAKE A BREAK STUDENTTRAV· EL (B00)95·BREAK! Prescription Glasses Brown/orange and black around lenses. Thin gold lrames. Two genial guys looking for rides light weight lenses. home to Eastern Mass. over Lost during last week of Oct-now. Christmas break. Will split Call Mike @ 1 0782 gas/tolls/etc. If you can only take ·-----· one of us home. that's fine too. LOST: pair of gold hoop earrings. Please call Tom x1173 or Marty pair of pearl earrmgs, gold necklace x3419 as soon as possible. with heCirt charm, and diamond ring. WHERE: Alumni Hall Wanted!! WHEN: Friday night -11/10 Individuals, Student Organ1zalions CONTACT: X·1407 with any 1nfo. to Promote ----------· SRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  HELP!II NEED A RIDE TO NJ FOR THANKSGIVING CALL Dave at X3684 LOOKING TO HIRE· LOCAL WEEKLY NEWSPAPER PAN­NYSAVER!TIMES SEEKING JUNIOR/SENIOR ACOUNTING MAJOR TO HELP ACCOUNTING DEPT. PART· TIME HOURS AVAIL· ABLE M-F. CALL GERRY MOTI 282·4419 OR FAX 282-4415 Babysitter needed. Some evenings or weekends. $5/hr -own car pre­!erred. Call Bobby at 236·6170(W) or 272·5917(H) NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545·4804 ext. N55843 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING· Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land·Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1·206·634·0468 ext. C55842 FOR RENT HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 232·2595 READY NOW FOR SPRING SEMESTER 3·4 Bedroom 2 blks from campus Newly remodeled with W/D DW Fridge Stove Huge Yard Full Basement and Monitored  6 BDRM HOME NEAR ND. NEXT FALL.272·6306 FOR SALE SPEAKER: Liner Phase Studio Monitor...like new. Great for parties &bands. $250 OBO. Jeff 233· 2460. •.•-·-·-·-·-·-·-.-·-·-·-·-·-*-*-*-·-*-·-* Hey Ski Buffs ... ND Ski Team T-shirts Only$10! Call today and receive your shirt folded for no extra charge! Wow! Potter @ 232·2955 *-*-*-. -· -·-*-·-·-*-*-*-·-·-*-.-·-·_..-*-* The Dating Handbook-2002 Things to do on a Date. Fun, Silly, Romantic, Unique-132 pages. $8.95 to Goshen Publishers, 422 W.lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton, PA 19341 GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEA! Give a child you know the gift of reading. Colorful and unique per· sonalized books for children. 15% student discount. Call1·800-375· 3340. 24 hr. recorded message gives details. 85 Jimmy 4x4 Low miles great cond. $4500 273·4762 81 Ford Mustang, T-tops, chrome wheels, rebuilt, straight·6 engine. tint. Runs very well. $1950 o.b.o. Call Isaac at 634·1668 TICKETS  PERSONAL 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center We're open for your convenience!!! Mon·Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm Sat.: Noon-6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight (closed home football Saturdays) 0c0o0o0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 hey knucklehead a day late and $7.37 short ... that's 10 and 3 now -SL START YOUR NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTIONS EARLY! LISTEN TO WVFI 640AM (IT'S NEVER TOO LATE) WHY NOT START TODAY? 11 a.m. to r p.m. You'll like it. (It's a jolly spectacle that you'll dig) .............................. ~ -~ --­----­--­---­--­ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE This Week: REVIEW/ OPEN DANCE • 6:30 tonight at 301 Rockne • Practice for Thursday night's excursion to Dan 0' Day's. Dance like a Champion Today! ................................--------------------­Ted, Rory Sparrow parked to close to the curb. ADOPTION  happy home. Let us help you. We can provide medical. legal, counsel· ing, approved living expenses. Call Cindy or Stan at 1-800· 752·1636. or attorney Glenna 1·800·241·5384. Confidential. I love you Jen Weber! Turkey makes Michelle tired. Inspector Gadget· The past few days have been won· derful. Hope you feel the same. looking forward to Friday! ·A paper reader To next semester's Londomers: Chill out. This is going lobe the best semester of your lives. You aren't going to be in your flats, you're going to be at the pub, having a pint. The rooms are no worse than the dorms &in many ways much better. LIZ The highway is alive tonight But no one·s kidding no one about where its going I'm just sitting here in the camp fire light Searching for the Ghost of old Tom Joad Both of you leave me! No Snyders pretzels next week. M-Get your nose fixed. Just kidding. missed the loft too. DT owes me a Carolina cap for the last-minute substitution. Dante's just waiting for the hair to grow back.  
My little black Olympus camera FREE TRIPS (with a full roll of film, wouldn"t you CALLINTER·CAMPUS PRO· know) has been missing s1nce Oct. GRAMS 31. Please call Anne @ 273·8575. http://www. icpt.com Thanks! 1-800·327·6013  Security Sys Included $240/person or $900/mo Will help individuals needing a room. Call Mike @ 233-9609 for details  FREDDY JONES BAND tickets still available at LaFortune Info Desk! Get some at student prices while you can, to see them ROCK Stepan on Nov. 29.  A wonderful horne awaits your baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love. Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Peter at 800·529-8386.  Just once, I want to be the HN. Maybe I could play for the Stealers or Rapetors. Cerael Killer in the house.  

-·~p.t.t~..t ...f.t ····-·" .......~.. 11 ~ ... " ...................... ~ ...
.... 
Tuesday, November 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
•MLB 
SMC focus on Notre Dame Invitational Gillick 
By lAURIE KELLEIIER 
~;ports WritL'f 
Al"l•~r taking sixth in the Wabash Invitational on Novnmlwr II, the Saint Mary's swimming and diving tnam will compete in the Notre Dame Invitational this Thursday through Saturday. 
Thn Belles arn ready to take on strong teams such as the Boheat~ of Ohio Univm·sity and tlw lJniv•~rsily of Kansas Lady Jayhawks. 
This rnnnt has IHHln the pri­mary focus for the Belles this semester. While the competi­tion will be stilT, they are pre­pared to swim their best and let the eompetilion push them. 
"The Notre Dame invite is our foeus this semester," said coach Whatley. "The girls have been training very hard and have been hrokerr down. Now that we an1 resting a little I definite­ly expeel to see great improve­nwnls." 
This is the first championship meet format of the rather young season. 


SESSION 1: }UNE 3-}VLY 4, 1996 SESSION II: }ULY 9-AUGUST 9, 1996 
The oldest American University in Europe offers: 
• 
More than 75 courses from the University's curriculum for credit or audit from a wide range of disciplines • French Immersion -3-week Program • Weekend Excursions and Day Trips to Historic Regions of Europe 

• 
Special "College Preview" High School Program in Paris 


For complete program information, caU or write: 
The American University of Pari~ Summer Programs lk>x 22, 31, av. Bosque!, 75343 Paris Cedex 07 
Tel. (33/1) 40 62 o6 00 Fax (33/1) 47 05 33 49 New York office: Tel. (212) 6n-4870 
Web site-hnp://www.aup.fr E-mail-Summer@aup.fr 
AUP. The American University of Paris. 
TOIIl 

Morris Civic Auditorium •South Bend 
December 8-9-10, 1995 AVE PERFORMANCES • Friday 8 p.m. 
• Saturday 2 p.m. • Saturday 8 p.m. 
• Sunday 2 p.m. • Sunday 7:30 p.m. EST 
See it here just before it goes to Chicago! Get Your Tickets Now While They Last! 
TICKETS
Call 219·235·9190 
$13.50 TO 
Box Office open Monday through Friday 
$47.50 
10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Charge to VISA, MasterCard, Amex • Group, Student & Senior Citizen Discounts 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
The sixteen events are spread over three days. The lop six­teen swimmers come back for finals on each of the evenings. This format can be a setbaek for the Belles because it is very tiring. However, they believe that the rest they were able to get this week will help them keep thnir strength. 
"This is my J"irst three day meet," said sophmore Betsy Wright. "It sounds pretty tir­ing, but sincn I'm only swim­ming one event per day I can focus on that event." 
Wright and teammates are hoping to have a decent amount of swimmers make it to finals so they ean score points and make a respectable show­ing in the final standings. 
The meet will be at Boll's Aquatic Center Thursday, Friday, and Saturday mornings at 9 and evenings at 6. 
"I think we're ready to get in the pool and reap the benefits of all our hard work," Wright said. "My teammates and I are very excited and looking for­ward to it." 
• COLLEGE fOCHBAll 
Rutgers coach axed 
Associated Press In six years, Graber had only two winning seasons, his 
NEW BHUNSWICK, N.J. 
best being 7-4 in 1992. 
Doug Graber, who failed in Overall, his record was 29­
six seasons to turn around 
36-1. 
the Hutgers football program, 
Graber did not attend the 
was fired Monday as coach of 
news conference, but in a 
the Scarlet 
telephone conference call 
Knights. 
from his office said he did not 
University 
feel he'd been mistreated. 
president 
"There's no bitterness in­
Francis 
volved.," he commented. "I 
Lawrence 
am a big boy and l under­announced 
stand clearly what the bottom that Graber line is. I wish Rutgers nothing
had been 

relieved of his duties effective immedi­ately. Hutgers Athletic direc­tor Fred Gruninger said a search had begun for a new coach. 
"Doug Graber has been an untiring worker for our foot­ball program," Lawrence said. "We are indebted to him for his efforts and wish him the greatest success in the future." 
Hutgers finished the season Friday with a 41-38 loss to Boston College. The team, ex­pected to be Graber's best in his stay in New Brunswick, was 4-7 and 2-5 in the Big East Conference. 
but the best. 
"A lot of coaches when they leave a program hope they lose every game. I'm doing nothing but cheering for Rutgers because when they are successful I know deep in my own mind that at least I've had some part of it." 
Graber had two years left on his contract, which pays him a base salary of $154,150 per year. University officials said no financial arrange­ments had yet been dis­cussed. 
Published reports in recent days said Hutgers officials were already conducting conversations with potential candidates for Graber's job. 
tffi![@li!i!!il@!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:T.7~~"~WHi!ljlll~lllllijj]lllll@ll!UiillnffinlEE 

otre 
ame 
ncounter 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In dialogue wllh others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, your 
relallonshlp with Christ, your experience ol Chrl1llan 
community and service. 
RETREAT 
FEBRUARY 2-4, 1996 
DATES: 
FORMS 
AVAILABLE: November 27-December 1 
SIGN UP 
Before 4:00 p.m.-December 1 
DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 
-
631-7800 

COST: $25.00 
rn umuumrmum''"' .... --.. "IIII!IIIIUDJOD]WQ EE 
switches allegiance 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press 
BAI.TIMOHE 

Pat Gillick returned to base­ball Monday as general man­ager of the Baltimorn Orioles, one of the few jobs that could prod him out of rntirnment. 
Gilliek was general manager of the Toronto Blue Jays from their initial season in 1977 through 1994, producing World Series champions in 1992 and 1993. lie was elevat­ed to executive vice president in September 1994, serving in an advisory capacity. 
"When l backed off 14 months ago, I kind of figured I had enough," Gillick said. "But I was kind of idle, not really doing too mueh, and my wife gave me a major-league, 'Yes, you did retire too early.' She was part of the push.'' 
Gillick, 58, signed a three­year deal Monday afternoon after several weeks of on-and­off negotiations with owner Peter Angelos. 
"I had some other opportuni­ties to get back into baseball with Arizona and Tampa Bay, but I didn't want to wait for two years," he said. "I wanted to get back into a situation that was positive with an ownership that wanted to win. I see those qualities here in Baltimore." 
Gillick built the expansion Blue Jays from scratch, and finally produced a champion after years of work. He expects much quicker results in his new job. 
"What really eonvinced me to come back is that this club is close to winning," he said. "With the proper additions, we can be right there challenging for the Eastern Division title." 
Gillie k fi lis the void left by the resignation of Boland Hemond, who stepped down from the job last month. His name rarely came up during the interview process. but it appears as if Gillick was the 
guy Angelos wanted all along. 
"l had some conversations with the Oriole people early, but it wasn't until the last two weeks that things really heated up," Gillick said. 
Gillick, voted major league baseball's executive of the year in 1985 and 1993, will be reunited with manager Davey Johnson, hired Oct. 30. 
The two played together as minor leaguers in the Orioles' organization in 1963. 
Gillick signed with the Orioles in 1958 and tried in vain to make it to the majors as a pitcher before calling it quits in 1963. 
"l never made to Memorial Stadium, except as a specta­tor," Gillick noted. "But it sure will be great to be a part of Camden Yards." 
Johnson, on the other hand, enjoyed tremendous success as a player with the Orioles. He and Gillick will now team up in an effort to get Baltimore into postseason play for the first time since 1983. 

Tuesday, November 28, 1995

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
think the goal she scored today was a huge goal." 
Final Four 
That score extended her 
continued from page 20 
have a role on the team and gained a better perspective. It enabled me to get back to the old way of playing." 
In Van Laecke's case, the old way involved scoring goals at Arkansas before she was moved to defender upon her transfer to Notre Dame. Since her move from the reserve defender role to the forward position, the difference is evi­dent. 
"I look at it now and I think how stupid I was not to have her there for two years," Petrucelli added. "She has come forward and scored key goals. Every time we needed a goal, she scored one. She's been a clutch player for us. I streak to nine consecutive games with a goal as she slipped the ball between the legs of UConn goalkeeper Amy Schwarz early in the second half. After receiving a ball in the box from midfielder Cindy Daws. defender Kate Sobrero found Van Laecke cutting through a gaping hole in the Connecticut defense. 
"Sobs (Sobrero) laid a great ball into me and I was un­marked and shot it and it went through the keeper's legs," Van Laecke said. 
"It's too bad we didn't show the team we were today," Tsantiris said. "We're a young team and that happens. There were times we were starting to get into a rhythm and we were stopped. We definitely did not 

The Observer/Mike Auma Kate Sobrero and the Irish dribbled past the Huskies of Connecticut into their second straight Final Four. 

play at the pace we wanted to." Ia's saves included a diving stop commented. 
It was a shame that on a Tammy Barnes one-timer The increased involvement of Connecticut could not show to keep the shutout intaet. the midfielders, especially what kind of team they were. "I thought Ashley did a good Manthei, also pleased Petru­Perhaps, the Huskies regretted job of stepping up to play the celli. not saving a couple of the five ball and our marking backs did "Holly really stepped forward goals they scored in their only a great job of sticking to their today and created problems for win against the Irish in marks," Petrucelli said. them going forward," Petrucelli October. That night now seems In the first half, however, said. "When Holly gets the ball like a distant memory after Notre Dame encountered prob­and she runs forward, she's Notre Dame won the games lems clearing the ball during a tough to stop and we're tough that counted, shutting out few pass backs to Renola who to beat. If we can get her into Connecticut in the following was forced kick it instead of situations where she's got the two contests with solid team picking the ball up. Each led to ball with some space, she's defense. dicey situations as the Huskies pretty dangerous." 
"You have got to remember were given additional opportu­"We are at our best when we that six weeks ago we gave up nities on the offensi.ve end. are able to put balls through five goals to this team," Petru­"That's definitely going to be the midfield," Manthei said. celli noted. "They were run­something we work on this "Utilizing all of our midfielders ning all over the place, they week," Renola said. "ft's nice from the outside to the inside had people free and we had to have that option bac:k when gets our best results." people confused. they're running with their back As for the defending national 
"Today we were very orga­to goal. I did layoff it a lot in champs, North Carolina, the nized. We never broke down the second half, so we're going Irish dropped their first meet­defensively. We were solid to work on it so we won't have ing with the Tar Heels 2-0. As from the front to the back. Ev­to layoff it this weekend." with the early Connecticut loss, eryone of our players played The other key components of however. the Irish are now a well defensively." the defense, Sobrero and Kate different team than they were 
"They're a better defending Fisher also had outstanding in the middle of the season. team than they were earlier," games. Sobrero covered the "I think we're confident going Tsantiris commented. entire field, even showeasing a in," Renola added. "We've had 
For the 16th time this year, few offensive moves, while a tough year, but we pulled out the Irish defense gave the Fisher turned away a number of it. I think we're in a better scorekeeper little work to do on of Huskie chances including a position than we were last year. the visitor's half of the score­stellar one-on-one play against We have experience and we board. Jen Renola and Ashely UConn forward Ginny know what it is like to play a Scharff provided an iron cur­Woodward in the second half team on their home field in the tain as Renola made seven that thwarted another op­national semifinals. We've seen saves, while Scharff effectively portunity. Carolina before and I think started the Irish attack as she "I never thought that they we're ready to play them." has this season. One of Reno-were going to score," Henola After all, time. changes things. 
Paid Advertisement 
A Reminder 
To The University Community: 
Last spring when the decade·old controversy about recognition of GLND/SMC came to crisis, the Gender Studies Program provided appropri· ate educationalledership with its Critical Issues Roundtables on Teaching Against Homophobia. Discussion of the issues in this forum led to the con­clusion that the university administration is obliged to give official recog­nition of GLND/SMC as a student group, a conclusion that is consonant with the resolutions made by every democratically elected body on campus [Faculty Senate, Student Senate, Campus Life Council, Hall Presidents Council, Graduate Student Council, Graduate Theological Union]. 
We write today to remind the university community that the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student life appointed by Vice President 0 1Hara last March 6, 1995 to research the issue is still at work, and still operating under the restriction that recognition of GLND/SMC may not be considered. The anomalous character of this committee allows it to work in virtual secrecy; the university community has no right of access to its min­utes; its members are bound by confidentiality. The committee has pub­lished no statements of its findings and offered nothing yet to the campus in the way of solving the problem of the administrative closeting of gay and lesbian students on this campus. The tragic politics of closeting was the subject of artistic and critical exploration in the film premier of Roy Cohn/Jack Smith and scholarly roundtable which the Gender Studies Program organized on September 8 and 9, 1995. 
Time drags on. As the committee continues to deliberate, Notre Dame's cherished claims to be a community ethically bound by social justice fur· ther erode. Witness the ethical condemnation of Notre Dame's policy on gay and lesbian students officially published by the American Sociological Association this autumn! 
The Gender Studies Program therefore urges the Administration to consider that they might be mistaken in ignoring the views of the University's democratically selected, representative bodies, and responsible portions of its scholarly community. We again urge the administration to recognize GLND/SMC as a student group. Let social justice and intellectual integrity, and not administrative politics, be the basis of this university policy. 
Respectfully, 

Kathleen Biddick Director with Executive Committee ofGender Studies Program · Linda P. Austern  Barbara}. Green Carlos Jerez-Farran Mark D. jordan  
Rebecca L. Bordt  Marie A. Kramb  
Jacqueline V. Brogan  Margaret Porter  
Elizabeth P. Forbis  Ava Preacher  
Teresa Ghilarducci  Kathleen Royer  
Joan Godmilow  DanielJ. Sheerin  


Tuesday, November 28, 1995 page 15 
))~. 
I
• 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Irish goaltender Matt Eisler earned the victory on Friday night. He held a usually explosive Laker offense to just two goals. 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
seen him play. lie is leading the charge for the seniors so far this year." 
With the game knotted at two early into the second period, sophomore right wing Lyle Andrusiak spotted Bruininks wide open in front of the goal for the easy score. Notre Dame struck again when freshman center Brian Urick recorded his team leading seventh goal of the season to· give the Irish a 4-2 advantage. 
After Matushak extended the lead to 5-2 with 9:07 to play in the period, the J.akers narrowed the gap with a score early in the third period. However, all hopes of a comeback were dashed when sophomore left wing Steve Noble beat half of the Lake State team to the puck for his second goal of the season and a 6-3 victory. 
"The difference was that we never let up from start to finish, and we had few breakdowns," said sophomore goaltender Matt Eisler. "It's important that we play tough defense and gPt solid goaltending against a team like Lake State. Fortunately for us, we were able to do that." 
The confidence seemed to carry over to Saturday, as the Irish jumped to a 1-0 lead in a low scoring battle against one of the CCIIA's top defensive teams. Bruininks again got the Irish going against the Lakers with his third goal of the year off an assist from senior eonter Jaimie Ling. 
However, the Lakers, despite being out­hustled and outplayed for most of the evening, managed to find the net three times in the third period to soeure a 3-1 victory and a split of the weekend series. 
"We played as well or better in Saturday's loss than in Friday's win," said Poulin. "We are slowly but surely starling to do the little things it takes to win. We showed this weekend that we can play with the better teams in the league." 
Indeed, Lake Superior State found that out the hard way. 
COJ.l~ 3rd period; then open ro all" AEIU l .~SO 01 #4452 · Aerody. 1: .11m.; MWF 9:05-9:55; Aero 240 prereq I ARCH 546 01 #2353 -Change days/time to: M 06:30-08:30; PM Class AME S98E 01 #;4>3-Fund. of Combustion: 3 cr. Ius.; MWF 10:10-11; X ARCH 699 0 I #0094 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" li." ME 456-0 I ARCH 699 02 #4261 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" AMST 38611 01 #3641 -Add restriction: "Majors only" ARCH 699 03 #4262 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" ARST 462S 01 #44)5-Professional Video Production; 4.0 cr. hrs.; MWF ARCH 699 04 #4263 -Change title to: "Thesis Prepararion" 12:50-02:05; Permossion Req; Cross-listed with COTH 463 ARCH 699 -06 #4442 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" 1\A 2.10 07 #4•180 -Statisics in Business; 3 cr. Ius.; T II 09:30-10:45 BIOS 101 01 #1035 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" <:1 IEG 698C 0 I #4470 -Corrosion & Elwrochem: 3 Ius.; MWF II:15-12:05 BIOS I 07 01 #3556 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" CSE 700 0 I #4450 -Non-resident Thesis; 1.0 cr. hr. BIOS 109 01 #3557 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" EE 551 01 #4476 -Mathemancal Programming; 3 hrs.; MWF 9:05-09:55 BIOS 156 01 #3094 -Add restriction: "Froshmen only" CEOS 498 01 #4456 -Directed Studies; var. cr. Ius.; Permission Required BIOS 196 0 I #3095 -Add corequisite: "BIOS 156L" Ill'S 306A 01 #4472 -Students Teaching Students: Sr Scm-Peace Sr; 3 cr. BIOS 528 01 #0474 -Change time to: MW 11:15-12:05 lm.; Perm Req BIOS 532 01 #3065 -Add prerequisite: "Bios 531 or Chern 531" ME 498B 01 #4451 -Directed Studies; var. cr. hrs. BIOS 539 01 #0518-Remove meeting days/rime Ml 561 01 #4454-Dante's lnrdlectual History; I cr. hr.; T 3:00-5:00; CE 452 01 #3508 -Change title to: "Intra to Water Chern & Treatment" Meets3/19-4/16; X-listed w/ ROIT 423-0 I and LLRO 424-01 CHEM 102 01 #0147 -Add restriction: "Not eligible to students who have MUS 540 0 I #4449 -Bibliography of MuSic; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45 taken Chern 116 or 118" PHIL 256 01 #4478 -Science, Tech. and Soctety; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 1:15­CHEM 104 01 #3561 -Add restriction: "Not eligible to College of Science or 2:05; X-listed wirh STV 256-0 I College of Eng students" Til EO 598 2.3 #4471 -Dir. Readings; var. cr. hrs.; John Melloh;Perm Req CHEM 224 01 #2942 -Add restriction: "Non-CHEG majors only" and add corequisite: "CHEM 224L" CHANGES CHEM 224A 01 #2941 -Add restriction: "CHEG majors only" ACCI 372 01 #0354 -Add restriction: "Seniors only" CAPP 303 01 #3043 -Add restriction: "CollegeofA&Lstudentsonly" ACCT 383 04 #4272 -Change days/time to: MW 12:50-02:05 CHEG 698B 01 #3520 -Change time ro: TH 01:15-02:30 ACCT 383 05 #4273 -Change days/rime to: MW 02:20-03:35 CSE 443 01 #2915 -Change time to: MWF 02:20-03:10 AERO 360 01 #1225 -Change prercq ro:"(Aero 350 or ME 334)& ME 327)" DESN 2175 OJ #23 10 -Add restriction: "ARHI, ARST or DESN majors rhru AME 553 01 #.l497 -Change time ro: T H 09:30-10:45 3rd per.; then open to all" AMST 491 01 #3096 ·Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; ECON 224 01 & 02 -Add corequisire: "ECON 224L" then open ro all" ECON 224L all sections -Add corequisire: "ECON 224" AMST 493 01 #3149 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period: EE 440 01 #3532 -Change ending time to: M 02:20-03:20 then open to all" ENGL 240H 01 #3730-Chang< rime to: TH 09:30-10:45 AMST 591 01 #3097-Add restriction: "Graduate majors only" GOVT 344 01 #4372 -Chang< course number to: (Govt) 341 and add restric ARI II 4R8 0 I #3675 -Add "Permission Required" rion: J rs and Soph only ARST 243S 01 #3124 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; GOVT 492A 01 #3823 -Change time to: MW 11:15-12:30 then open to all" GOVT 492B 01 #3824 -Change to "Permission Required" ARST 289S 0 I #1508 -Add restriction: "ARST or DESN majors only thru HIST 342 01 #2973 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period:  ' I ' I 1 I I I  then open to all" HIST 415 0 I #3334 -Add restriction: "Majors only tluough 3rd period: then open to all" HIST 422 0 I #3461 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period: then open to all" HIST 454 01 #3025 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period: then open to all" liPS 602 01 #3090 -Change day/time to: T H OR:00-09: 15 LAW 608 03 #4332 -Change Tuesday rime ro: 08:30-09:20 LLRO 511 01 #4146 -Change day to: F01:15-04:00 MATH 125 0 I #2658 -Change rime to: MWF II:15-12:05 MATH 262 01 # 1965 -Change rime to: MWF 0 l: 15-02:05 MATH 366 0 I #2352 -Change rime to: MWF ll: 15-12:05 MBA 684 01 #4299 -Change rime to: T H 02:45-04:00 MBA 694 01 #4431 -Change days/rime ro: W 02:45-04:00 MI 502 01 #2526 -Change time to: M 12:45-01:30 MI 634 01 #4089 -Change day/rime to: H 01:15-03:45 MSA 611 01 #4308 -Change title ro: "Communicating for Managerial Effecriveness" MUS 223 01 #4309 -Change credit hours to: 3.0 MUS 224 01 #4310 -Change credit hours to: 3.0 PHIL 538 01 #4119 -Change rime to: TH 04:15-05:30 PHYS 309 01 #3595 -Add prerequisite: "Phys 116, 128, 142 or 222" PSY 353 01 #4132 -Remove"PermissionRequired" PSY 480A 01 #4447 -Change rime to: MWF 02:20-03:10 ROIT 106 02 #0442 -Change rime to: MWF 09:05-09:55 ROSP 570 01 #4165 -Change day/time to: TH 04:15-05:30 TH£0 283 01 #4206 -Add restriction: "THEO 100, 200 or 20 I" THEO 400 OJ #1457 -Change to "Permission Required" THE() 423 01 #3449 -Change time to: MW 08:40-09:55 THE() S23 01 #4420 -Chang< tim< to: MW 08:40-09:55 THEO 593C 01 #026S -Change time to: T09:00-11:30 THEO S95B 0 I #2736 -Change time to: W 03:45-05:00 THEO 634 01 #4227 -Changeday/timeto:H01:15-03:45 THEO 680 OJ #4233 -Change days/time to: Tllll:00-12:15 THEO 682 01 #4234-Change day/rime ro: M 09:30-12:00  
COURSES CANCEl LED AMST 461 01 4350 CE 444L 01 1739 ENGL 384E 01 3749 HIST 363 01 3886 LAW AMST 481E 01 3650 CE 470 01 2448 ENGL 390B 01 3750 HIST 403 01 3887 LAW ARCII 699 05 #4264 AMST 489E 01 3652 CHEM 1201. 0 1 3002 ENGL 396A 01 3751 HIST 403A 01 3888 LAW ARHI 252T 02 #1196 AMST 593 01 36S7 CHEM 3231. 46 8346 ENGL 409 01 3753 HIST 405A 01 3890 LAW AIU 11 252T 06 #0275 ANTH 329 01 3073 COCT 426 01 0874 ENGL 414 01 37S6 HIST 406A 01 3892 LAW 1\A 392 02 #2692 ANTH 329 02 3659 COCT 455 01 4357 ENGL 417 01 4360 HIST 409A 01 3894 LAW IIIOS 580 03 #2597 ANTH .186 OJ 3661 COMM 103 02 9702 ENGL 440Z 0 I 3763 HIST 415A 01 3333 LAW MIIA 636 03 #2769 ANTH 387 01 4435 COMM I 03 03 9703 ENGL 473A 01 3771 HIST 422A 01 3462 MARK MilA 636 OS #1619 ARCH 444 03 I 195 COMM 103 05 9705 ENGL 480 0 I 3258 HIST 424A 01 3899 MARK MI 342 01 #.~164 ARCH 562 0 I 0529 COMM 103 07 9707 ENGL 490B 01 3776 HJST 427A 01 3903 MARK MI 555 01 #3165 ARCH S64 01 1061 COT!-! 204 01 3016 ENGL 491 01 0509 li!ST 447A 01 3907 MATH RCWR 236 0 I #238R ARCH 566 01 2274 COTH 401 01 3704 ENGL 492A 01 3777 HIST 449A 01 3910 MATH ARCH 585 OJ 10S8 COTH 474 01 086S ENGL 496Z 01 3778 HIST 451A 01 3912 MBA ClOSED SECTIONS A.'.i ARlll 169 01 0319 COTH 481 01 1339 ENGL 512A 01 3782 HIST 454 01 3025 MBA OF 7;00 PM 11/27/25 ARHI 451 01 3107 CSE 456 01 3523 FIN 231 OS 0006 HIST 454A 01 3027 MBA ARHI 461 01 3173 CSE 472 0 I 3524 FIN 360 01 2220 HIST 457A 01 3914 MBA ACCT 231 01 2247 ARHI 477 01 3176 DANC 144 80 9780 FIN 361 02 0449 HIST 467 01 3915 MBA ACCT 231 02 4265 ARST 1345 01 0213 DESN 2825 01 0380 FIN 361 03 0600 !liST 473 01 3917 MBA ACCI' 232 02 1181 ARST 134S 02 3688 ECON 12BT 04 0836 FIN 370 01 288S HIST 473A 01 3918 MBA ACC'T 334 0 1 0075 ARST 242S 01 1952 ECON 225T 04 3219 FIN 474 01 0604 HIST 495 16 3923 ME ACCf .334 02 4267 ARST 2465 U I 151 5 ECON 315 01 1323 FIN 474 02 4286 HIST 495 40 392S ME ACCT 334 03 4268 ARST 2485 0 l 1322 ECON 401 01 3717 FIN 47S 01 1999 HIST 546 01 3933 MGT ACCT 450 01 4335 ARST 289S 01 1508 ECON 413 01 0828 FIN 475 02 4287 HIST 579 OJ 3937 MI ACCT 476 01 2391 ARST 2975 01 1069 ECON 416 01 3719 FIN 476 01 2983 HIST 664 01 3941 MI ACCT 476 02 2371 ARST 3265 0 I 1208 F.CON 421 01 0827 GE 313 01 2216 liPS 386 01 4250 MI ACCT 477 Ol 203'i AS 312L 02 1236 ECON 450 01 4358 GE 410 01 3800 liPS 412 01 4424 Ml AERO 46S 01 3067 IIA 230 04 2795 ECON 45S 0 I 3720 GOVT 240 02 3275 Ill'S 493 01 314R MI AFAM 324 01 3621 llA 362 01 1390 F.E 232L 01 1518 GOVf 301 01 3811 III'S 515E 01 3069 Ml AI'AM 329 0 I 3075 llA 363 02 1959 EE 232L 02 1407 GOVI' 304 01 0829 III'S 593 01 4427 MI AFAM 329 02 3622 IIA 392 01 2182 ENGL 101 OJ 3239 GOVT 308 01 4370 liPS 637A 01 4428 MSCI AFAM 370 01 4.H9 BA 392 OS 4279 ENGl. 201 01 3727 GOVT 316F 01 3110 Ill'S 671 01 3049 MUS AI' AM 384E 0 I 3623 BA 483 01 4280 ENGL 203 01 3729 GOVT 341 01 4372 LAW 591A 01 0650 MUS AFAM 401 01 3(>24 BA 490 01 2840 ENGL 300N 0 I 3733 GOVI' 373 01 3821 LAW 591F 01 4331 MUS AFAM 4 U 01 3625 BA 490 02 2318 ENG!. 301A 01 3735 GOVT 495 01 3830 LAW 591G 01 4444 MUS Al'AM 414 01 .1626 BA 490 03 1668 ENGL 301B 01 3736 GSC 333 0 I 4383 LAW 592A 01 0035 MUS AFAM 449 0 I 3627 IIIOS 3031. 02 0161 ENGL 302A 01 3737 GSC 464 01 4391 LAW 608 01 0188 MUS AFAM 454 01 3028 ll!OS 404 01 2505 ENGL 314 01 3738 HESB 434 01 3852 LAW 608 02 1892 PHIL AFAM 468 0 I 3628 BIOS 411T 03 1010 ENGL 315A 01 3739 HIST I 15T 06 3863 LAW 629C 01 4333 PHIL AMST .103E 0 I 3630 CAP!' 316 01 1462 ENGl. 319B Ol 3113 HIST I 16T 03 1096 LAW 63IF 01 IS23 PHIL AMST 304G 01 3631 CAPP 331 01 I S09 ENGl. 32S 01 3741 I-liST 209T 04 3870 LAW 635 OJ 4330 PHIL AMST 307G 01 3633 CAPP 331 02 3697 ENGl. 328 01 3742 HIST 235T OS 3878 LAW 642A 01 10S3 PHIL AMST .14711 0 I 3024 CAP!' 361 01 1332 ENGL 340 01 3743 HIST 235T 06 3879 LAW 671 01 3048 PHIL AMST .~8611 0 I 3641 CAl'I' 389 01 0520 ENGl. 340B 01 3744 HIST 26S 01 3880 LAW 676 01 2746 PHIL AMST 414 01 3643 CAPP 452 01 2858 ENGl. .%1 01 374S HIST 310A 01 3882 LAW 678A 01 4334 PHIL AMST 430 01 3644 CE 441 01 2687 ENGL .%3 01 3746 HIST 327 A 01 3884 LAW 683 01 1378 PHIL AMST 451H 01 3648 CE 441 02 3507 ENGL 383 0 I 3748 HIST 359 01 3139 LAW 695 OJ 0121 PHIL  695 02 2315 PHIL 2SO 01 4100 soc 374 01 2023 695 03 1411 PHIL 261 01 0310 soc 401 01 4173 695 04 2464 PHIL 261 02 1343 soc 422 01 4174 695 05 1876 PHIL 263 01 4101 SOC 424 0 I 3088 695 06 1087 PHIL 263 02 4102 soc 434 01 4171 695B 01 2659 PHIL 264 01 4103 STV 4S4 01 41R8 69SC 01 2070 PHIL 267 01 4104 THEO 100 05 2094 370 01 0258 PHIL 383 01 4106 THEO 237 01 0723 374 OJ 2138 PHYS 222L 02 2288 THEO 243 01 1839 382 01 0560 i'HYS 222L 06 2852 THEO 243T 01 0721 103 01 0394 PHYS 309 01 3595 THEO 243T 02 0645 120T 07 1851 PSY 211A 01 0049 THEO 249 01 1885 606 0 I 2783 PSY 342 02 2080 THEO 260 02 4203 624 0 I 4292 PSY 342 03 2489 TilEO 262 0 I 0720 629 02 2074 PSY 396B 0 I 4400 THEO 265 01 2807 640 · 01 1032 PSY 405 01 295S THEO 270 0 I 34.18 682 01 0036 PSY 431 01 4135 THEO 270 02 4205 697 01 2846 PSY 470B 01 0018 THEO 281 0 I 3040 697 02 1549 PSY 478A 01 4401 THEO 283 0 1 4206 342 01 3491 I'SY 480A 01 4447 THEO 290 OJ 1248 439 01 2142 PSY 482 01 413R THEO 2901l 01 4209 371 01 4289 PSY 488A 01 3405 THEO 290C 01 4210 303 01 4055 PSY 496 01 1900 TIIEO 387 01 0122 387 01 4396 RLST 240 26 9526 THEO 396 01 0988 40S 01 4061 RLST 335 38 9538 Til EO 534 01 201 I 408 0 I 4062 ROFR 372 01 2521 THTR 230 58 9758 423 0 l 4063 ROFR 435 01 4148 THTR 272 60 9760 525 01 4074 ROFR 444 01 4149 THTR 276 62 9762 547 01 4080 ROIT 236 01 0808 THTR 276 64 9764 312 01 1241 ROSP 103 Ol 1733 220 OJ 2538 ROSP I 03 02 2S02 222 0 I 0227 ROSP 103 08 2717 CLASSES THAT WILL 224 01 4310 ROSP 230 01 4160 REOPEN AT 7·00 P M. 225 01 1535 ROSP 231 02 2708 ll.l2liL2.2 226 01 2513 ROSP 232 01 2501 230 OJ 0616 ROSP 236 01 2530 AMST 451 II 01 .~648 101 03 1166 ROSP 329 01 1 584 ANTH 386 01 3661 101 04 2624 ROSP 398 02 4474 ARST 3265 0 I 1208 101 07 0957 ROSP 399 01 2399 ENGl. 302A 01 3737 201 01 0013 ROSP 495 Ol 1981 ENGL 319B OJ 3113 227 01 4318 SOC 202 0 I 2929 ENGL 480 0 I 3258 239 01 4098 soc 232 01 4168 LAW 683 01 1378 239 02 4099 soc 332 0\ 4169 MARK 370 01 02S8 241 02 0702 soc 338 01 4170 Ml 303 01 40SS 241 03 4397 SOC 346 0 I 3034 THEO 249 01 1885 247 0 I 3383 soc 370 01 2689 THEO 265 OJ 2807  

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 1995 

Irish juniors Katryna Gaither (12) and Beth Morgan combined for 53 points in a 82-73 win over Indiana. Notre Dame begins Big East play 
tonight. 

Recycle The Observer 
Fast starters read)' for Big East 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 

Look out Big East. Here they come. 
After strong showings in wins against Indiana and Bowling Green, the Notre Dame women's basketball team now anxiously awaits the first Big East conference game in Notre Dame basketball history as they prepare to take on the Scarlet Knights of Rutgers Tuesday night at 7p.m. at the JACC. 
The Knights present quite a challenge. They opened up their season with a 69-67 upset of 12th-ranked Penn State. 
Led by the junior backcourt combination of Liz Hanson, a two-time Atlantic 10 All-Con­ference pick and last year's team co-MVP, and Amy Reyn­ders, the women from Rutgers should provide a good preview of what is yet to come for the Irish in the rough and tough Big East. 
"We don't know what to expect," said junior guard Beth Morgan. "It's our first Big East 
---, 
Ctilnese -American 
I
Restaurant & 
Cocktail Lounge 
7\ulhentic Szechuan, 

Mandarin & Hunan Cuisir.: 

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Votcd.Be:\~ 
Ori'!ntal Rest<Uirant-'
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
in Michiana by···,~
130 Dixie Way N.., South Bend 
Micllia11a Noh• 'l
(next 11.1 Razidall's Inn ) 
' tl! 
game, and they're coming off a big win." 
Based on their first two per­formances, though, the Irish seem to be up for such a chal­lenge. Last Friday, they ven­tured down to hostile Assembly Hall in Bloomington and de­feated the Hoosiers 82-'73. Ju­niors Katryna Gaither and Morgan, who hails from Bloomington and whose father coaches the IU baseball team, paced the team with 31 and 22 points, respectively. 
Lisa Furlin led the Hoosiers with 22 points and 9 rebounds. 
They didn't stop there. On Sunday, the Irish women han­dled Bowling Green without problem, winning 92-67. Once again, Gaither and Morgan, along with a stellar 18 point, 11 rebound performance from senior captain Carey Poor, led the Irish. Gaither finished with 16 points and 12 rebounds, while Morgan scored 13. 
Also, freshman Sheila McMillen continues to impress, this time by pouring in a team­high 19 points. 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students Applications to Notre Dame International Study Programs in 
ANGERS, FRANCE DUBLIN, IRELAND FREMANTLE, AUSTRALIA INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA MEXICO CITY, MEXICO NAGOYA, JAPAN SANTIAGO, CHILE TOLEDO, SPAIN 
for 1996-97 Are due December 1 
For additional information contact: International Study Programs 213 Main Building 631-5882 
HOT. 
Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 

Macintosh Performa' 6214CD 

8MB RAM/1GB hard drive, PowerPC" 603 processor, CD-ROM drive, 15"color monitor, keyboard, mouse and all the softwareyou're likely to need
MAC. 
Not the burger, pal-the killer computer. 


Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 

StyleWriter' 1200  
Ink cartridge and cable induded  
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, in fact, that prices on Macintosh personal·computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. And with the Apple• Computer Loan and 90-Day  Deferred Payment Plan, you can take home aMa(without having to make asingle payment for up to 90 days.t Which means you can also take home the Ap ..1 power to make any student's llfe easier. The power to be your best~ p1e W.  

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
'Hey, ;~u wouldn1 give your money away to just anyone, wouldyou? Neither can we. Offers expirejanuary 15, 1996. No payment ofprincipal or interest wi/1 be requiredfor 90 days. ln/eresl accruing during this 90-day period wi/1 be added to the principal and wi/1 bear interest which will be included in the repayment schedule. 'The monthly payment quoted above is an estimate based on a total loan amount of $1,9/3.83, which includes asample purchase price of $1,799for the Peiforma 6214CD system shown above. The to/a/loan amount also includes a 6.0% loan origina­tion fee. Interest is variable based on tbe Commercial Paper Rate plus aspread of635%. For example, the month ofOctober 1995 bad an interest rate of12.17% with an annual percentage rate (APR) of13.95%. Monthly paymentfor the total loan amount described above would be $32.86. Monthly payment and APR shown assumes no deferment ofprincipal and does not Include state or local sales tax. Monthly payments may vary depending on actual computer system prices, total loan amounts, state and local sales taxes, and a change In the monthly variable interest rate. Prequalification expedites the loan process, bul ooes not guarantee final loan approval. Subsequent acceptable verification oocuments must be received before your loan is approved. Wbew, pop quiz on Monday. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh and "Tbe power to beyour best".are registered trademarks ofAf!ple Computer, Inc. Mac is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. CardShop Plus is a registered trademark ofMindscape. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to Individu­als with disability. 7b learn more (US. only), ca/1800-600-7808 or TTY 800-755·0601. 

Sharon Harwell at Fischer Commu11ity Center 631-8607. 
;:;;;-;::;;: 

University of Notre Dame International Study Proga·am in 
,.. 
........­
Tuesday, November 28, 1995 
The Irish defense appears headed for a showdown with Ryan Clements, Danyell Ferguson, and the rest of the Miam Hurricane offense in the Orange Bowl. 
GRADUATE S1,UDENT RETREAT 
Friday, December 1st-Saturday, December 2nd 
8:00 p.m. (24 hours) 8:00 a>.m. 
A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conversation. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place:  Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus.  
Deadline:  Reservations will be confinned with payment of $15.00 to cover costs. If you need  
financial assistance, please let us know. Please make reservations by November 29th.  
Contact:  Fr. Nicholas A yo, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-5873 or  

page 17 

• NOTRE DAME fOOTBAlL 
Irish in the Orange? 
By MIKE NORBUT Spons Editor 
If Northwestern is the Cinderella of the 1995 college football season, then Virginia Tech has to be that pumpkin that can magically .be turned into a carriage. The question is, will the Hoakies get an invita­tion to an Alliance Bowl before the stroke of midnight? 
But strangely enough, Notre Dame's bowl direction is tied pretty closely to Virginia Tech's. Barring catastrophe and a Florida loss to Arkansas in the SEC Championship Saturday night, the Gators will face top-ranked Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl January 2. 
In the 6th spot in the poll and being the highest-ranked bowl­eligible team remaining, the Irish should be the choice of the Orange Bowl, which has the third pick overall. 
In the new Alliance system, all conference ties to the three major bowls are gone. That opens the possibility of a matchup the Orange Bowl has never seen in a bowl capacity­Notre Dame versus Miami. 
"With no more conference ties, the Orange Bowl has the opportunity to host some teams that haven't been here in awhile in matchups we've never had," Orange Bowl Assistant Director of Communications Dave Kobuszewski said. "That's the element of surprise." 
A real surprise would be if the Sugar Bowl chose No. 13 VT with the fourth pick overall. That would elimi:late Miami from the picture. as the Hoakies would serve as the Big East pick. Notrn Dame could then end up facing either Florida State or the SWC Champion, the winner of Saturday's Texas-Texas A&M struggle, in the Orange Bowl on January 1. 
"Virginia Tech is the more attractive option because they beat Miami," Sugar Bowl exec­utive Jerry Romig said. "They're also ranked higher." 
And they would be an attrac­tive draw for their own kind. The Hoakies are known to have a large conglomerate of fans that travel along with the team. And with the major bowls being on different days now, television ratings take a back seat to economic concerns of the bowl games as well as the cities. 
A real wrench could be thrown in if Arkansas can pull the upset over Florida. That would likely send Notre Dame back to Tempe, Ariz. to face the Cornhuskers. You could throw a dart to pick the other two games, since they'd be of such little bearing on the national championship. 
And this is all possible with just a handful of football games left. 
NOTRE DAME FORUM ON ACADEMIC LIFE 
"Masters and Professional Programs at Notre Dame" 
Panel: Professors John Affleck-Graves (Finance) Stephen Batill (Aerospace & Mechanical EG) Joseph Bauer (Law) Maureen Boulton (Romance Languages & Lit.) Norman Crowe (Architecture) Kathie Newman (Physics) 
Wednesday, November 29, 1995 7:30P.M. CCE Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Faculty Senate All are welcome. 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1996 -97 Academic Yeaa· 
"WHERE DO WE GO FROM HERE'!" With Professor Paul McDowell 
TUESDAY NOVEMIJER 28, 1995 
7:00 t•.M. ROOM 117 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answl'r quesllons ALL ARE WELCOME! 
God gives each personone lifetime. What are you doing withyours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary al the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
--~--­
-------------~------------------­
-

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 28, 1995 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Notre Dame forward Pat Garrity will get a preview of what's to come in the Big East by facing perenial power Indiana. 
• VOUEYBALL 

Irish receive bid 

IU senior Brian Evans possesses one of college basketball's sweeter strokes. Freshman Antoni Wyche will be trying to contain him tonight. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

you're going up against the elite." 
*** 

Injury update: Thanksgiving provided the Irish the opportu­nity to give thanks that the injury plague has stopped, at least temporarily. Only Pete Miller (thumb) and Derek Manner (foot) will not suit up against the Hoosiers. 
Gary Bell overcame his pre­season ailments to contribute six points and five rebounds on Saturday, but his conditioning is still questionable. Chasing Evans through a maze of screens should certainly give him a workout. 
*** 

Baffling backcourt: After a strong exhibition showing against Athletes in Action, guards Ryan Hoover, Admore White, and Keith Kurowski were nonfactors against Akron. 
The trio accounted for a com­bined 14 points, and will need better production to counteract the Hoosier duo of Sherron Wilkerson and Neil Reed. Hoover and Kurowski both went for 16 in Notre Dame's 80-79 overtime victory over Indiana last year. 

By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

The good news is that Penn State is not in the same brack· Elt as the fifteenth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team for the NCAA tournament. 
The bad news is that defend­ing national champion Stanford ls. 
The 26-6 Irish received a first-round bye in Sunday's tournament drawing and will host the winner of the lowa State-Idaho match on December 2 at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center. 
This will be the fourth crack at the NCAA tournament for the Irish under the tutelage of head coach Debbie Brown. 
have good records and fin* ished high in their confer­ences, so either team will pro­vide a competitive ma~ch." 
Idaho finished the regular season 28-4 and champions of the Bid Sky Conference while Iowa State's 21-11 record placed them second behind top-ranked Nebraska in the Big Eight. 
Beyond records and confer· ence standings, the Irish know very little about the two paten­tial opponents, but plan to send a scout to see them around the middle of this week. 
With hopes of advancing to the regionals, the point at which the 1994 season ended, the road gets much more diffi· cult for the Irish. The Irish 

with each of the previous ·)are seeded second behind 26­three efforts shot down by 2 Stanford in the Pacific Penn State. The Nittany Lions Region, meaning that the Irish have successfully knocked the are considered one. of the top Irish out of the tournament for eight teams in the tourna­the last three years, but this ment. With a victory in the year hopes to be different. second round, the Irish would 
"We were hoping to get a most likely face 22-6 bye and host our first match Washington State who also and we did, so we are happy received a bye and will play with the draw," Brown said. the winner of Loyola 
-:'Both Idaho and Iowa State Marymount and Oral Roberts. 
Come Join the Holiday Celebration! 
ON WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 29 7-9 P.M. LAFORTUNE LOBBY 
Pht~lt~s wilh Sanla Carrt~ling Relreshmenls 1ree 1Ject~raling 

Sponsored by: The Multicultural Executive Council 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 


DILBERT 
DOES HUMAN RESOURCES OFFE.R ANY TREATMENT 
Pf\OGRAr".S FOR PEOPLE. 
WITH DYSFUNCTIONAL 
INTE.RNE.T ----~ CONNE.CT10N5? 
~) 
CROSSWORD 
F' nc~'Stnffi'F' nm j tj men's ~ Women's 
Te"" js cIj" jc Presented Bq:  uQrSitlj Te"" j s  
Wednesdatj, No~embe,.  29  St,.oke RnQJtjsls  
6:30-8:00  ~  

 P•Qtjlng Slt&tQtjons  

No Adunnce Reg,st,.nt,on Necessn"tJ-r,.ee of Chn,.ge Open to nU Not,.e Dnme F"ncu,ttj, Stnff ~ The,,. F"nmiUes l),.,ng You,. Own Rncquet-ChUd,.en 10 ~ U.de,. P•ense 
631-6100 © 


,. 0  I  RECOMMEND THE '''<A.RN  
u  111ER~P'<."  YOU'Ll ()E.  
WR~PPE.O  IN  A HUGE  
BALL OF YARN AND OSE.O  
AS  FURNITURE. IN MY  
OfflCE..  

60 Young genius 
62 Legal writ, for short 
63Willow 
64 Discontinued Dodge 65 Perceives 66 Actor George of 
"Cheers" 67 Board membership 
DOWN 
1 Scare film of '75 
2Smell-­(detect wrongdoing) 
3 ~colada 4 Christian Scientist Mary Baker-­s Actress Bernhardt 6 On the same side, in war 
7 Manhandle 
a Twice: Lat. 
9Aardvark 

27 Oscar Wilde 
morsel 
lady
10 Blur 

28 Ready-go
11 Awe 

connector 
12 Love 
30 Gone up 
13 Big bloomer 

32Tartar-­
1BGerman 

35 Mr. Cassini 
industrial city 36 Imperious
21 Too stylish, 
emperor
perhaps 23 Colonial flute 

39 Very: Fr. 24 Butcher's 40 Early start byproducts 42 Latin literary lion 25--nelson 44 Respected 26 French friend tribesman 
R~~~~::;....--o"-­
BILL WATTERSON 
.. .1\Wl \3£.\NG CbLD 

BUILDS CI-\(>..Ril.Cit.R. 
IKNEif} 
IT.~~ "!~~... 
~· 


SCOTT ADAMS 
15 THIS LIKE.. THE Fl\tv\OUS ~ "ROP£5" COUR5E. WHERE l ~ LEARN TO SOLVE. PMBLEI'\S t AS PART OF A TEAr'\? 
Vl 


46 Lab measurers 55 Some ring decisions
47 Skipped over 56 Frost
49 Baldwin and 57 Central Sicilian Guinness city so Calcutta coin 
sa Blue-pencil 52 Like some 
60 "Hubba-hubba!" gases 
61 "--as 54 Nabokov novel directed" 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
page 19 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
JEANE DIXON 

HAI'PY IIIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Use the direct approach. Be atten­
tive to those in need. Nurturing a 
child's special talents will provide a 
rich harvest for years to come. A 
romantic dilemma will work itself 
out if you exercise restraint. Time 
and good luck are on your side. A 
job change could prove advanta­
geous for the whole family. Rejoice 
in the many benefits a new relation­
ship brings. Spend longer hours on 
the job when major projects are in 
the works. 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON 
THIS DAY: tennis great Billie Jean 
King, actress Jamie Lee Curtis, 
comedian Rodney Dangerfield, 
actress Mariel Hemingway. 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Things are looking up ! You feel 
enthusiastic about a wonderful 
transformation. Others are counting 
on your leadership. Success comes 
through experimentation. Minimize 
your spending on holiday gifts. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Others may be envious of your skills 
or resources. Present your ideas to 
higher-ups. Recent restrictions will 
soon be lifted. Do some cooking for . tomorrow's Thanksgiving feast. 
GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): You 
connect with a kindred soul today. 
Settle down and do your finest work. 
Romance enjoys favorable inOu­
ences. Move forward with confi­
dence. Couples who share a com­
mon cause wi II \le together forever. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Seek a family member's cooperation 
in working out a budget. Horne life 
will be happier once a compromise 
is reached. A social gathering lives 
up to your expectations. Be a con­
siderate guest. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take 
advantage of a new business !rend 
ami you will reap handsome finan­
cial rewards. A neighbor could get 
•MENU Notre Dame 

NOHTH SOUTH Chicken & Dumplings Country Fried Steak Potato Skins Whipped Potatoes Italian Blend Vegetables Spanish Vegetables 
Saint Mary's Call 284·4500 for int'ormation. 
• OF INTEREST 

"True Romance" will be playing tonight in the Theatre at tho Snite at 7 p.m. and "Double Identity" will be shown at 9:15. The cost is two dollars. 
Pre-Medical Students: The Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers will be sponsoring a talk with a Resident t'rom Memorial Hospital. Ue will be speaking on the residency program at Memorial and how to g!~t into medical school. It will he held tonight at 9:00 
P.M. at the Center t'or Social Concerns. Hef'reshments will be-served. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
on your nerves. Postpone a discus­
sion un•:• another day. Delay sign­
ing doct..nent~. too. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
Take steps to protect your health. 
Eat sensibly and exercise regularly. 
A lasting solution can be found to a 
family problem. Talk things over 
with your siblings or cousins. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone wants the two of you to have a closer relationship. Be honest with your friends. You need to think twice before making new financial commitments. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Track a rumor to it~ source. Progress is assured if you concentrate on pro­jects already underway. An older person can be counted on in an emergenL'Y. Be open to new ways of doing things. 
SAGITTARilJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your work effons bear fruit. A professional or personal relationship is developing faster than expected. Play for time if not yet ready to make a commitment. Discuss pro­posed domestic changes with m~m­bers of your fan1ily. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone who has been waiting begins to grow impatient. Be honest about your goals and plans. It may be time to end a deteriorating rela­tionship. Tension subsides when you heed the voice of your conscience. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your integrity and accomplishments are proclaimed far and wide. Go ahead and ask someone prominent for help. Your sincerity wins you a fair hearing. In romance, trust your instincts. A promise will be kept. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A co-worker who is going through a crisis, deserves compassion. A pro­fessional project moves forward after a long delay. Last-minute plans arc fun for both singles and married cou­ples. You ~eet stimulating people. 

-
.• 
.. 
l 
I
• l 
j 
ACROSS 
1 Prank 
s Brazilian dance 10 Trade 14 Needing 
1rngation 15 Actor Del on 16 "Oliver Twist 
has asked for 
----!" 11 Marco Polo had 
II 19 Disconnect 20 Nautical sheet 21 Suffix 22 "Thar -­
blows!" 23 Crooked copy 25 Area for anchor 
cables 29Vagrant 31 Somme's 
capital 33 Dubious 34 Tues. preceder 37 Dryer residue 38 Discombobu­
lated 40 Soccer legend 41 Gave 
nourishment 42 Carrot. on occasion 43 Loewe collaborator 450f indeterminate 
gender 48 Liberate 49Comes 51 Jar top 53 Like an old 
mattress 54 Maine's symbol 59 Rapier 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, November 28, 1995 
•IcE HOCKEY 


Senior Jay Matushak notched a goal in Notre Dame's 6-3 upset of Lake Superior State. 
Notre Dame superior 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Writer 
The quest has finally come to an end. 
The Notre Dame hockey team entered last weekend's two game series with No, 3 ranked Lake Superior State in search of an identity, national recognition, and most of all, a CCHA victory. And with the Lakers falling four notches in this week's poll, the Irish apparently found what they were looking for. 
The 1993-94 National Champions con­fidently strutted into the Joyce Center playing their best hockey of the season. However, after being shocked 6-3 on Friday and after being outplayed in a 3­1 victory on Saturday, the Lakers quick­ly scurried home with their tail between their legs. 
"There is no question that Lake State is a very good hockey team," said head coach Dave Poulin. "It was good to get a win like this under our belts. It gives the players a sense of confidence that they can win every time out." 
After starting the season out slowly, the seniors have picked up their level of play in the last four games. That was certainly the case on Friday as a pair of seniors, Jay Matushak and Brett Bruininks, found the back of the net in the all important second period to seal the victory for the Irish. 
"The key for us right now is that more players are playing well than at any other point in the season," said Poulin. "Brett Bruininks is playing is well as I've 
see HOCKEY I page 15 


Hoosiers provide early season test 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associat< Sports Ediror 

In a season that promises to have many firsts, Notre Dame's 
•. first weekend proved an auspi­cious debut, but the first signif­icant test for the Irish is yet to come. Notre Dame opened its inau­gural Big East season with a 65-54 victory over Akron at the Joyce Center on Saturday, but can expect a more formidable task when it faces the Indiana Hoosiers tonight at 7:30p.m. at Assembly Hall. 
If not entirely convincing, the 
• 
victory over Akron should at least inspire cautious optimism in the Irish faithful. 
Notre Dame was able to find point production despite a quiet night from guard Ryan Hoover, as freshman Antoni Wyche stepped up to drop in 16 points to go with an 18 point, 17 rebound effort from forward Pat Garrity. 
The contributions of Wyche's classmates were also a good omen, as oft-injured Gary Bell 
played  a  solid 18 minutes,  
while  point  guard  Doug  
see HOOPS I page 18  



Irish captain Ryan Hoover needs to step forward tonight as the Irish travel to Bloomington to face traditional powerhouse Indiana. 

By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 

Last season, Julie Vogel sat out her entire junior year after undergoing pre-season back surgery. 
At the same time. Amy Van Laecke was battling for a starting spot in the defensive end after transferring from Arkansas. 
It's funny how things change over time. 
For the second straight NCAA tournament game, Vogel and Van Laecke provided the one-two punch as they each scored a goal in Notre Dame's 2-0 victory over Big East rival Connecticut. The Irish will now embark on. their second straight trip to the national semifinals to face 13-time NCAA champion North Car­olina this Friday night in Chapel Hill. 
With the offensive firepower Notre Dame possesses, any Irish soccer fan thumbing through the media guide at the start of the year would not have selected this duo to be responsible for four of the seven goals in tournament play. 
Since each was inserted in the lineup in the middle of the year, however, they are mak­ing their presence known. 
"I just couldn't have asked for anything better," Vogel said. "It's been a great oppor­tunity." 
With twenty minutes expired in the first half, Vogel supplied the only goal Notre Dame needed Sunday as she came free at the far post and headed in a Holly Manthei corner kick for her fourth goal of the year. The goal off the set play com­plemented a strong defensive effort by Vogel who along with the en tire defense kept the Huskies off balance all day. 

"I was a lot more worried about them scoring than myself scoring," Vogel added. "Everyone kind of misjudged the ball and it was a great ser­vice by Holly." 
"I thought scoring first was a real important thing," Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "We had played very well defensively and I think they (UConn) knew it was going to be tough for them to get a goal. Once we got one, it stung them a little bit." 
"Maybe the first goal took something out of us," UConn head coach Len Tsantiris ad­mitted. 
For Vogel. the goal could not have been sweeter after spending the beginning of the year on the bench. 
"It was really hard since I had never been on the bench before," Vogel said. "However, I realized I could 
see FINAL FOUR/ page 14 

• NCAA volleyball bid announced Men's Basketball 
Women's Soccer 
see page 18 at Indiana, November 28, 7:30 

NCAA Final Four vs. North Carolina at Chapel Hill 
Hockey 
·-
Friday, 5:30 • Irish women brace for Big East at Ferris State, December I, 7 p.m. 
Volleyball 
vs. winner of iowa State/Idaho see page 16 Sunday, JACC 
• ACC powers victorious 
see page 12 


~----------~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




