
Monday, August 28, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 6 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Football Hall of Fame honors the world's greatest to ever play the college game. 
• JOCKSTRIP 
Commercial, yet genuine 
For possibly the only time in its history, South Bend stood on its own without the help of a Notre Dame football 

ga;i~h the com-Mike Norbut mercialism that Sports Editor would make 
Hallmark. who created holidays the likes of Sweetheart's Day and Neighbor's Day proud. the College Football Hall of Fame opened in grand fashion Friday afternoon. 
The $6 entrance fee, first floor gift shop and indoor Burger King exuded an atmosphere of a 
money-making circus that you won't find in Cooperstown or Canton. 
But underneath it all there was the genuine feeling that many people went to great lengths to introduce something truly special to the public. 
And it showed. 
Though small, the Hall's design offers a bit of sunshine to the reg­ular eyesore that is South Bend. The outdoor astroturf field draws the attention of anyone who hap­pens to stroll down Michigan Avenue. 
And the facility itself appeals to people of all ages. 
see NORBUT/ page 13 

Service program targets freshmen 
By KRIST! KOLSKI 
Assistant News Editor 
As freshmen settle into their new home for the next four years they will have an oppor­tunity that will extend beyond the typical orientation to col­lege life at Notre Dame. 
The new Campus Community Introductions program, which has come to fruition though efforts between Student Gov­ernment and the Center for Social Concerns, aims to orient freshmen to community service opportunities in South Bend. 
Organizers have arranged with eight local service pro­grams to sponsor on-site in­formational visits. 
Freshmen will visit two cen­ters of their choice to meet cur­rent volunteers and to gain a greater understanding of the services provided at the individ­ual locations. 
According to Jonathan Patrick, Student Body Presi­dent, the rewards of the pro­gram are multi-faceted. 

"The program will help pro­vide a perspective towards injustices in our world and efforts made to address them," stated Patrick. 
'Jfstudents are 
intrigued, then great. If not, at least they know a little more about the community.' 
Jonathan Patrick 

Students will also see and understand a little more about the community and the rela­tionship with Notre Dame. 
According to Patrick, "we hope to provide and opportuni­ty for students to get off-cam­pus for reasons other than just going to parties or bars." 
The program is a painless way to increase students 
chances for getting involved. Patrick hopes that the orien­tation will spurn interest in the programs. "If students are intrigued, then great. If not, at least they know a little more about the community," stated Patrick. 
Freshmen received informa­tion about the Campus Com­munity Introduction program prior to arriving at school. So far, more than 541 Freshmen have signed up to participate, more than expected by orga­nizers. 
Since the program is in its incipient stages, it will only be able to facilitate the requests of 100 to 200 freshmen. 
Due to such great demand the program may be offered again in the spring. 
The program is young but Patrick feels it has a lot of potential. 
"We'll spend a lot of time evaluating the program. Depending on how things go we'd like to continue each year with the freshmen class." 
13 college greats highlight opening 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
Friday, the city of South Bend beamed like a bride-to-be showing off her engagement ring as it opened the doors of the College Football Hall of Fame to the world. 
Thousands of people from all over the United States journeyed to Michiana to celebrate the new shrine and watch the induction of 13 foot­ball heroes into the Hall. 
While area high school marching bands played, vendors hawked food. al}d a five-story­
• see HALL OF FAME, page 13 
high Burger King Whopper balloon floated in the background, the highlight of the opening weekend was the induction ceremony. 
In a scorching August heat that seemed light years away from the frozen playing fields of November, the College Football Hall of Fame and South Bend shared their joy over the new facility. 
"This is the story of a lot of good people com­ing .together for a good cause," said South Bend Mayor Joseph Kernan, who gave thanks to the Hall's several corporate sponsors, and made reference to the adversity both the Hall and the city have overcome in constructing the edifice. 
Former Notre Dame athletic director and cur­rent Atlantic Coast Conference Commissioner and NCAA president Gene Corrigan introduced the 13 enshrinees, twelve of whom were repre­sented at the ceremony. 
Syracuse running back Jim Brown. Standford end Chris Burford, Louisiana State defensive back Tommy Cassanova, Mississippi quarter­back Jake Gibbs, Nebraska offensive lineman Rich Glover. Illinois fullback James Grabowski, Notre Dame lineman Jim Martin, Penn State linebacker Dennis Onkotz, Washington Guard/linebacker Rick Redman, and Baylor linebacker Mike Singletary and Arizona State coach Frank Kush all attended the ceremony. Rutgers end Paul Robeson, who died in 1976, was enshrined posthumously and was repre­sented by his son, Paul Jr. 
Oklahoma State running back and Heisman 
see INDUCTION I page 12 


Splish, Splash! 
Saint Mary's seniors Meggan Awe and Mavourneen Michiels escape the heat in the waters of Stonehenge. 



r------------~---------~ 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, August 28, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 




Should we be afraid of the dark? 
I have an announce­ment to make, and I am 
probably going to anger Peggy Lenczewski and offend a few key Saint Mary's News Editor people in the process, but I've found it's much more fun to con­sciously anger and offend, as opposed to my .standard "open mouth insert foot" attitude. I went to visit friends in Regina Hall when I got here. Imagine my surprise and delight when I ran, nose first, into the brand new key access door. 
Now, for those of you unfamiliar with key access or card access or detex, in order to open a door, you insert a security card, a 
light flashes and you can open the door. 
However, in Regina, several of these sys­tems are not working correctly, effectively locking women out of their rooms. Now, more than ever, we're chained to our ID's. 
When I ran over to Regina earlier today, I was quite tempted to kick the door in as I swore at the top of my lungs. 
In as few uncomplicated words as possible: the detex system did not work. . I would. also like something else explained. The detex system supposedly was installed to lock us in safely at night, instead of locking us out. Assuming that the bugs are eventually worked out, I'd like to know-exactly who is out there? Who am I being protected from? 
I was assuming that the campus was safe when I came here. I don't check behind every tree and bush after dusk, nor do I check in my closet every night before I go to bed. Maybe I should. 
Last year, rumors were circulating that someone was wandering into student's rooms in Holy Cross Hall. Most people assumed that it was a sleepwalker, and students were sim­ply told to lock their doors at night. 
I don't know if Security is aware that there is a rumor going around that a just-released prison inmate was casually strolling the halls at night. 
I recently prepared to make the quick dash between Holy Cross Hall and Le Mans at about one in the morning. It would have taken about half a minute, and I was com­pletely comfortable doing this. 
Then my friend said, "Do you know how many girls get raped on this campus? A lot do, but no one knows about it because it's kept really quiet." 
I realized I didn't. 
I had heard that one out of every four freshman women gets raped in the first six weeks of her freshman year. 
I had naively assumed that I knew a collec­tion of the lucky three out of four that stayed safe. 
And then I realized that I was probably 
wrong. I took the tunnels that night. The college may try to make us feel secure 
with doors and detex, but I think that know­ing what kind of risks we're taking when we walk outside after dark, and knowing that there is a reason to lock our doors would prevent us from putting ourselves in danger­ous situations. 
I suppose that we're not told what happens because someone is assuming that us SMC chicks would indulge in mass hysteria instead of taking reasonable steps to avoid risks. 
I didn't get here by being immature. Doors won't do any good if we don't know why we have to keep them shut. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Kristi Kolski Melanie Laflin  Tom Roland•  
Sports  Viewpoint  
Dave Treacy  Michael O'Hara  
Rafael Gonzalez  
Production  Lab Tech  
Kira Hutchinson  Mike Ruma  
Jackie Moser  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday exa:pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu..DAT AGLANCE 
Brush fire wreaks havoc on Long Island 

Evil oysters strike again 

ORLANDO. Fla. 
Newly harvested oysters from the Gulf of Mexico will have to be refrigerated under new regulations adopted Friday to protect a small group of people at risk of illness or death from eating raw oysters. The action came after three days of hard bargaining between the industry and state and federal public health regulators at the Interstate Shellfish Sanitation Conference in Orlando. The safeguards fall far short of an April-October harvest­ing ban called for by the Food and Drug Administration. The bacterium vibrio vulnificus, harmless to most people, thrives in the warm waters of the Gulf. The FDA reports 10 to 15 deaths a year. Most of the victims have a weak­ened immune system, liver ailments, blood disorders or diabetes. Cooking kills the bacterium and refrigeration retards its growth. The FDA and the industry have car­ried out an intensive education campaign, and some oys­ter fishermen and states had adopted their own safety measures within the past two years. But the FDA and public health groups did not consider that enougb. Oyster harvesters, processors and wholesalers had argued that there was no public health threat significant enough to warrant a ban. The FDA agreed to let the ISSC decide the issue. 
Signs of Antichrist seen in bar codes 
People concerned about the rise of the Biblical Antichrist have worried over an almost endless number of leaders and developments. Author Robert Fuller says they include famous people such as Ronald Reagan. His three names each have six letters, producing "the mark of the beast" -666. He also recovered from an assassi­nation attempt, and the Antichrist is supposed to appear dead in a parody of Jesus' resurrection. Susan B. Anthony dollar is said to bear the image of an atheist feminist, a plot to destabilize the economy and allow the Antichrist to move in. The computer-readable bar codes on packages have been called an attempt to computerize the nation and its citizens, paving the way for a one­world economy controlled by the Antichrist. Numbers in the codes sometimes contain the digits 666, feeding the fears. When the Postal Service started using nine-digit ZIP codes, some people linked them to the nine-digit Social Security numbers to get 18 digits-three sixes. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Monday, Aug. 28 Accu-Weather e forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather• forecast for noon, Monday, Aug. 28. 
OHIO 
ILL. 
FRONTS: 
............... ..&...&.. ..,.,&r 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1995 Accu·Weather, Inc. 

ti'"""i -B ESI (n] 0 IZ3 § (l-~ Q 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUlN CLOUDY 
"".._..,"""" 

Atlanta 78 73 Dallas 97 79 New Orleans 92 76 Battimore 87 65 Denver 86 63 New York 80 64 Boston 75 61 Los Angeles 89 -66 Philadelphia 86 64 Chicago 90 60 Miami 63 79 Phoenix 101 78 Columbus 83 74 Minneapolis 88 67 St. Louis 91 69 
Bystanders were scared to death 
DETROIT 
A witness to a woman's beating and fatal plunge off a bridge says most onlookers were afraid to intervene against a man so enraged at his victim over a traffic acci­dent that he offered to sell her. "He asked if 'anybody wanted to buy some of this bitch, because she has to pay for my car,"' witness Harvey Mayberry told The Associated Press. "A couple little smart-ass kids said. 'I've got $10,' and things like that." "It's not that people didn't want to help," he said. "We were in a position where we could not help." Deletha Word, 33, drowned in the predawn hours on Aug. 19 after she jumped from the Belle Isle bridge into the Detroit River. Martell Welch, 19, was charged with murder. Richard Padzieski, an assistant Wayne County prosecutor, said Mayberry's alle­gation Friday that the suspect offered Word to the crowd was new. "Either his memory has improved or he's embellishing," Padzieski said. Police Cmdr. Gerald Stewart also said he had not heard the allegation. However, Mayberry, a 40-year-old city bus driver, said he was positive about what he saw and would submit to a lie-detector test. Mayberry said he was among 15 to 20 people on the bridge who watched in horror as the man slugged, kicked and choked the woman. 
Killer is found guilty in rape-torture 
NEW CITY, N.Y. 
For 11 months, she was known only as an anonymous 
victim: the 55-year-old woman allegedly beaten, raped 
and robbed by paroled killer Reginald McFadden only 
months aftP-r his release. On Thursday, after McFadden 
was convicted, she made a declaration before a roomful 
of TV cameras, reporters, family and friends. "My name 
is Jeremy ... Jeremy Brown. How wonderful it feels to tell 
you who I am." While The Associated Press and other 
news organizations usually don't identify rape victims, 
Brown said she wants to be known so she can "inspire 
someone, somewhere to do something positive that they 
might not have done had I not spoken out about my expe­
rience." McFadden, 42, also is accused of murdering 
two people in less than three months after former 
Pennsylvania Gov. Robert Casey paroled him in July 
1994. He represented himself at the trial and cross­
examined Brown. 

Its effects ' Major east/west road closed j At least 250 people have been 
evacuated 

j Suffolk County Airport closed 
j Long Island Lighting Company has 
shut off power 

AParts of the Sunrise Highway, which leads to the Hamptons, are closed 
j No-fly zone in effect 
EASTPORT, N.Y. 
A brush frre raged out of control for a second day Friday near the Hamptons, turning the resort playground for the rich into a disaster area choked by 40-foot flames and billowing white smoke. More than 1,500 volunteer firefighters waged a ground war against the fire with hoses, shovels and picks. Seven National Guard helicopters dumped 200-gallon loads of water pumped from a nearby lake onto the 5-mile-long, 1 1/2-mile-wide fire zone. Despite the intensity and swift spread of the frre, no residents were injured. Forty firefighters suffered minor injuries, including smoke inhalation and exhaus­tion, said Sara Gaffney, a spokeswoman for Gov. George Pataki. The fast-moving fire burned across 6,000 acres of land and destroyed a lumber yard and one home. The Westhampton commuter rail­road station and at least seven nearby homes, mostly small, wood-frame struc­tures, were damaged. "It's like being in hell," said volunteer firefighter L.J. Heming, 33, of Middle Island. "We were right there in the woods and a wall of fire went right over us. 

The fire 
' Five to six miles long, one to two miles wide 
j 5,000 to 6,000 acres of land destroyed 
j More than 150 fire companies, as well as helicopters and two C-130 tanker planes, are fighting the blaze 
j About 3,500 acres in the state­owned Pine Barrens, about 30 miles away, had been charred since Monday 
Monday, August 28, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Philip Morris now under Congressional fire 
By LAURAN NEERGAARD 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
When Philip Morris Co. set­lied its $10 billion libel suit against ABC-TV this week. it got to put back in the compa­ny vaults thousands of inter­nal documents about nicotine in its cigarettes that ABC had planned to unveil in court. 
Thursday, a congressman and attorneys for a massive class-action lawsuit moved separately to release those documents to the public. arguing they could prove whether the world's largest tobacco company manipu­lates nicotine specifically to hook smokers. 
"There is no question more jmportant than the motive question." Hep. Henry Wax­man wrote Philip Morris Chairman Geoffrey Bible Thursday. 
The papers are urider seal by order of a Richmond, Va., judge. Court arguments by ABC and Philip Morris lawyers indicate the thou­sands of documents not only detail how Philip Morris con­trols nicotine in cigarettes, but why. 
Waxman challenged the company to release the docu­ments to the public immedi­ately. 
"If our goal is the pursuit of the truth, there can be no justification for withholding such critical documents from congressional and public scrutiny," he said. 
Philip Morris declined im­mediate comment. 
Under the settlement, ABC apologized Monday night for reporting that Philip Morris "spikes" its cigarettes with large amounts of nicotine from outside sources. 
The network also must return the documents to Philip Morris. 
But ABC officials were served subpoenas Thursday ordering them to turn over the documents for use in the Castano federal lawsuit, said Washington attorney John P. Coale. 
The Castano case, filed in New Orleans on behalf of every smoker and former smoker, accuses tobacco companies of manipulating nicotine to hook them. 
The subpoenas give ABC officials 10 days to comply. 
In full-page ads in the na­tion's largest newspapers Thursday, Philip Morris tout­ed ABC's apology and said it was "ready to accept" apolo­gies from other people who have made similar allega­tions. 
"Here's all we ask: When charges are leveled against us, don't take them at face value," Philip Morris wrote. "Instead, consider the infor­mation we provide and then -just as importantly -sub­ject the charges themselves to the scrutiny and skepti­cism they deserve. Fairness and a sincere interest in the truth demand no less." 
W0«1d you like to earn 
lFU'<J~ ~IW~~Siiflf A lFU'~~ il'U'Il[JJ rt({) IHI~~f l&m!ti $jpn~oo.e M~f 
You can earn any one or all--the choice is yours! Just ha11e a Christmas Around the World and Gifts lry House of Lloyd party and you will automatically receit>e a minimum of $50 in free merchandise. 
Become a sales representative and you'll receiw a free merchandise kit wlued at $.300, earn commissions up to 30%, and ha1.1e an opportunity to join me on a ee, aU expense$ paid trip to Hawaii this Spring. Sound too good 10 be truel Take it from me, Wendy Wolfe, ademonstrator and recently promoted superoisor who has sold ooer $45,000 in product, it's not! 
Whether you're interested in the career opportunities a(!Qi/able or hosting a C:hrnrmas Around the World and Gifts party, you won't find a more generous hostess program or a more fun way 10 make a profit! 
Call me now a (219) 232-7175 to get all the details! And remember, the sky's the limit••. it's up to you • •• 


WELCOME BACI<! 
Need a job that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. <,) As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" 
Call 273-2273 to find out more! 

Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 

Forums to focus on race relations 
By SARAH TAYLOR 
News Writer 

Throughout the year. the Of­
fice of Multicultural Student Af­
fairs will institute Inter-Race 
Forums designed to promote a 
sense of belonging for students 
of mixed ethnicities. The fo­
rums' focus is inter-racial rela­
tionships and their social rami­
fications. 

Iris Outlaw, director of 
OMSA, hopes that such forums 
will attract children of inter­
racial households and those 
students involved in inter-racial 
dating relationships. Her goal, 
however, is "to educate the 
whole Notre Dame communi­
ty," so students of all back­
grounds are encouraged to 
attend. 

OMSA's theme !'or this year is "Speaking Out for Our Rights: A . Response to the Conservative 
Backlash." Topics to be ad­dressed include affirmative ac­tion and assault on immigrants and refugees. In addition, OMSA will sponsor certain times to celebrate specific eth­nicities. 
The academic year kicks off with Hispanic Heritage Month from September 15th to October 15th, to be followed by Native American Month in November. February is desig­nated as African-American Heritage Month, and the Asian Heritage Week will occur in April. 
The changes in the program correspond to Outlaw's greatest objective for the year. "I hope to increase student turnout to the events we have, " she stat­ed. Last year, over one thou­sand students participated in OMSA activities. 
One pressing concern to 
OMSA is the financial burden of the new programs. Outlaw admits that the expense is tremendous, but looks for co­sponsors to defray the cost. 
The ND academic depart­ments are a great asset; they often provide financial assis­tance, as well as extra credit for the students to promote attendance. Generally, the forum speakers lecture for free; the only expense incurred is their travel. 
Outlaw encourages all stu­dents. regardless of their ethnic backgrounds, to get involved with OMSA. She hopes to en­lighten the ND community about the many ethnicities and to promote cultural understanding through OMSA activities. "It's the cheapest way to travel the world without high expense!" Outlaw exclaimed. 




Women still elected minority 
By DAVID BRISCOE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Women in nearly every coun­try gained voting rights this century, but getting them elect­ed is harder than it was in the late 1980s. 
Women's share of seats in national legislatures has de­clined from nearly 15 percent worldwide in 1988 to just over 11 percent this year, according to a country-by-country survey by the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 
The detailed 1945-1995 sur­vey released Saturday shows that only Nordic lands approach representation that reflects the fact that about half the world's people are female. 
Women in all but two coun­tries -Kuwait and United Arab Emirates -can vote. At the turn of the century, only New Zealand granted it. And 33 countries have elected women to lead national legislative bod­ies. 
But no country has ever achieved more than the 46 per­cent female representation of the Seychelles' National As­sembly in 1991, when women held 11 of its 24 seats. Repre­sentation fell to 27 percent in the next election. 
And women in several coun­tries have lost ground in recent years. 
"There is no reason that only one half of the population should rule over the second half," said Pierre Cornillon, secretary general of the Geneva-based union, which promotes dialogue among the world's male-dominated par­liaments. "It is a remnant of the traditional division between men and women." 
The United States, where women on Saturday celebrated the 75th anniversary of the suf­frage amendment, ranks 43rd in the percentage of women national lawmakers. Eleven percent of U.S. lawmakers are women, up from 5.6 percent at the start of the decade. 
China, which is hosting the Fourth International Confer­ence on Women next month, ranks 15th, with women mak­ing up 21 percent of the Na­tional People's Congress. 
Casi Morris, 

The survey covers 186 coun­tries, ranking them only by the largest chambers where legisla­tures are bicameral. 
Sweden tops the list with 40.4 percent women in its national parliament this year. Norway has 39.4 percent, Finland 33.5 percent, Denmark 33 percent and the Netherlands 31.3 per­cent. 
The lowest percentages among industrialized countries are in Japan with 2.7 percent women, Greece with 6 percent, France with 6.4 percent, Por­tugal 8. 7 percent and Britain and Australia with 9.5 percent. 
But there are signs of progress in some countries. In Japan, the upper chamber of the Diet has elected a record 
14.7 percent women and the male-dominated lower cham­ber elected a woman, Takako Doi, as its top leader in 1993. 
Christine Pintat, an Inter-Par­liamentary Union program offi­cer who compiled the survey, said that despite the overall decline, some promising trends are apparent in newly demo­cratic countries. 
In Armenia. women in 1990 held only 3.7 percent of the na­tional legislative seats, but elec­tions this year boosted that to 20 percent. 
She said confusion over the breakup of the Soviet empire led to increased male domi­nance in countries formerly under communist rule, but women also are now making big gains in Russia, Poland, Hungary, Turkmenistan and some other former Warsaw Pact nations. 
The United Arab Emirates and Kuwait ban women from sitting in parliament and voting for the men who do, and 10 other countries have no elected women this year. Saint Lucia gave women the right to hold office 70 years ago, but none have ever been elected. 

r--~ije~ew-~rorlt~imes--l 
: DELIVERED FOR ONLY 40 CENTS PER DAY MON·SAT! : I OMon-Fri $25.20 OMon-Sun $69.20 1 
I OMon-Sat $29.20 OSun Only $40.00 I I Fall delivery begins Mon., Sept. 4 & ends Fri., Dec. 8 I I No Delivery Fall Break (Oct. 14-22) or Thanksgiving Break (Nov. 23-26) 1 
1 Make Checks payable to: City News Service 1 1 Name: ________________________Phone: ________ 1 
I Address: _________ _______________ _ _ _______ _ _ 1 1Clip and mail to: City News Service, 1147 Mishawaka Ave., S. Bend., IN 466151 L _ ~.£ff_;£~~s_E~v~.:,!'!,k2;!P_!~~~~~~~D,!s!,Jn_l~o!!_u~ _ .J 
-----------------~-~ 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, August 28, 1995 


Storm threatens Caribbean 
By DANIEL HIERSO 
Associated Press 

Tropical weather update 
Packwood wants public to hear misconduct case 
~~--~~---------~ 
AP/Carl Fox 
northwest of Martinique. fears of heavy rains and winds from the storm, coupled with the threat of a newly active vol­cano, prompted the govern­ment to offer free evacuation flights to neighboring islands. 
Another storm, Hurricane Humberto, was far out in the Atlantic, some 1,500 miles west of Cape Verde. 
In Florida, residents began to dry out after Tropical Storm Jerry's drenching rains. Miami Beach, virtually deserted dur­ing the week, slowly filled up with sun worshipers Saturday. 
Rains in Tampa. Fla. were heavy enough to turn lawns into giant puddles and streets into rivers, sending residents wading to call tow trucks after their vehicles stalled on the way home. 
Remnants of the storm also scattered rain over parts of Georgia and South Carolina. 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
In a stunning reversal that could delay conclusion of his ethics case, Sen. Bob Packwood said Friday that he wants pub­lic hearings into charges that he committed sexual and offi­cial misconduct. 
The Oregon Republican changed his mind after vowing last week to "fight fire with fire" by aggressively con­fronting his female accusers. Just last month, he had de­clined to request hearings that are his right under Senate Ethics Committee rules. 
Packwood, who chairs the Fi­nance Committee, said he re­versed himself because the Ethics Committee "changed its rules in the middle of the game" -reopening its investi­gation to consider two recently filed complaints of sexual wrongdoing. 
His request could persuade the committee to overturn its earlier decision against hear­ings when it meets next month. If not, the switch could change the 52-48 Senate vote that up­held the committee's decision. 
The senator said his earlier decision was based on his belief that the investigation of more than 2 1/2 years had ended. 
He has strongly disputed the story of one of the two new accusers, a woman who was 17 when, she alleged, Packwood made a sudden and unwelcome sexual advance in 1983. 
Packwood, who announced his decision in a written state­ment, said in an interview, "That isn't fair to say to some­body, 'Well, do you want a public hearing or not' ... and then to bring new charges." 
If hearings were held, Pack­wood's legal team, headed by prominent Washington attor­ney Jacob Stein, would be ex­pected to cross-examine the female accusers vigorously. 
"I would hope that I would now be given the right that any other American has in court, to interview witnesses ahead of time, to depose them," Pack­wood said in the interview. " ... We asked the Ethics Committee some time ago to allow us to depose witnesses and they wouldn't allow us to do it. I w?uld hope now they would.' 
Despite a public ordeal that would be difficult for the ac­cusers. most of them have backed public hearings. 
One of them, Julie Williamson. said after Pack­wood's announcement. "I have quite a bit of confidence in the Ethics Committee. They have been, I think. evenhanded." Williamson accused Packwood of making an unwanted sexual advance in 1969. 
The committee. citing "sub­stantial credible evidence," has charged the senator with mak­ing unwanted sexual advances to 17 women in 18 instances in 1969-90, and will consider in September whether to add the two latest complaints to the charges. 
FORT-DE-FRANCE, 
Martinique 
. Homes were flooded by rising tides and warnings 'Yere posted throughout the eastern Caribbean Saturday as Tropical Storm Iris slipped between the islands of Martinique and Do­minica. 
By late afternoon, the storm was headed toward the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, but there was no guarantee it would stay on that path. 
Storm warnings were dropped for St. Lucia and other Eastern Caribbean islands south of Martinique. But islands northwest of Iris kept alert. among them Dominica, St. Kitts-Nevis, Antigua and Barbuda, Montserrat, St. Maarten and Anguilla. 
The storm did not hit land with full force as predicted. but as it approached just north of Martinique, residents boarded windows and stocked up on food and candles. 
·Authorities reopened Lamentin International Airport, closed on Friday. but urged people to stay indoors. 
There were no reports of major damage on any of the is­lands, although some homes were flooded by rising tides. 
Gusting winds, high seas and rain pounded St. Vincent and the Grenadines to the south. 
A small pilot launch belong­ing to the St. Vincent Port Authority· sank in the Kingstown Harbor as nine-foot swells washed over the piers. Small craft were anchored off­shore and taken to more shel­tered harbors. 
Two passenger ferries that connect St. Vincent and Bequia. 


Source: Accu-Weather. Inc. 

Martinique, many people took 
to the streets -and some 
thrill-seekers boarded boats to 
venture into the choppy seas. 
"St. Lucians like living close 
to the edge," said Tom Mayers, 
a printer in the capital, Cas­
tries. 

In the early afternoon, the 
storm was squeezing between 
Martinique and Dominica into 
the eastern Caribbean Sea. 
The National Hurricane Cen­
ter in Coral Gables, Fla.. said 
Iris was packing sustained 
winds of 45 mph. Forecasters 
did not expect much change in 
strength over the next 24 hours 
as Iris moves to the northwest 
at at 6 mph. 

Storm warnings were ex­
tended northwestward all the 
way to the British Virgin Is­
lands. The U.S. Virgin Islands 
were urged to keep watch by 
the hurricane center. which 
said Puerto Rico might be 
placed on storm watch status 
by Sunday. 

the largest of the Grenadine is­Iris was expected to hit the lands, canceled service for the islands of the southern day. The airport was open, but Caribbean on Friday night, but several flights were canceled to stalled a few miles offshore, islands closer to the main then resumed its course in the storm. morning. 


~ iOUJi
·In St. Lucia, 25 miles south of On Montserrat, 140 miles 

:z: 


BECOME A CATECIITST .,:. 
"' -1 
Do you enjoy working with children or young adolescents? 
Would you be willing to give a couple of hours of your time each week? 
Would you like to be challenged to articulate your faith better and to learn how to be an effective teacher? 
Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish community? 
If you can answer YES to any of these questions, then maybe you 
would be interested in learning more about how to become a 
CATECHIST. 
If interested, please contact John or Sylvia Dillon Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 631-5242 
-
(tMPUSMINISTRY 

Wanted: 
Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 



Raise Your Scoresl 
LSAT GMAT MCAT GRE 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 

Small Classes • Dynamic Instructors Practice Testing • Free Extra-Help 
(800) 2-REVIEW ....-~CETON
~,REVIEW 

The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S. 
Monday, Augusr 28, 1995 
Illegal alien deportation expected to increase 
By CASSANDRA BURRELL 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

_Deportations of illegal aliens convicted of serious crimes are expected to reach 30,000 this fiscal year, 5 percent more than projected, immigration officials said Friday. 
More aggressive enforce­ment enabled the Immigration and Naturalization Service to send 8,134 convicted aliens home in April, May and June, an increase of more than 10 percent over the previous quarter. 
New rules mandated by the 1994 crime bill could push those numbers up even higher, said T. Alexander Aleinikoff, the INS executive associate commissioner of programs. 
"We believe this is the begin­ning of a trend which will result in the doubling of the number of criminal aliens removed next year," he said. "A criminal conviction means jail time and a one-way ticket home." 
INS had expected to deport 28,579 convicted aliens in fis­cal 1995, which ends Sept. 30. 
Rules that went into effect Thursday created "administra­tive deportation," a new and faster way to deport aliens con­victed of aggravated felonies such as murder, armed rob­bery, firearms trafficking and narcotics violations, the INS said. 
The aliens now can be de­ported without a hearing before an immigration judge if they are not permanent U.S. residents and don't qualify for any program that would allow them to stay in the United States. 
The INS didn't release figures on how many illegal aliens are incarcerated, but said federal prisons house about 29,000 foreign-born inmates, and about 72,000 are being held in state prisons. Not all are illegal aliens, INS spokesman Greg Gagne said. 
In 1993, 644 of the 36,686 aliens deported for criminal acts or other reasons were Eu­ropean, 510 were from Asia, 405 from Africa, 40 from Ocea­nia, 1,589 from South America and 33,459 from North Amer­ica -including 25,501 Mexican citizens, the INS said. 
/ Nf(@)TJRIE DAMIE GOlLlF COlJJJR§IB
J 

L 
STUDENT FALL PASSES AVAILABLE NOW 


; ,, ·. GOOD THROUG~S2ECEMBER 1, 1995 
( NO'll'lrffi lDlAMJE! GOlLIF §lHIOlP) 
FINE QUALITY SPORTSWEAR GOLF EQUIPMENT TEE TIMES 631-6425 

INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CONTINUING EDUCATION 


GRE?GMAT? LSAT? IUSB! 
GRE Review 
5 Thursdays  OR  2 Saturdays and  
6-10 p.m.  3 Thursdays, 6-10 p.m.  
begins Sept. 14  begins Oct. 28  

GMAT Review  LSAT Review  
5 Mondays  4 Saturdays  
6:30-10:30 p.m.  1-5 p.m.  
begins Sept. 18  begins Oct. 28  

Intensive strategy reviews priced hundreds of dollars less than similar programs 
Call237-4261 for info 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Hold me Back! 
Tackle box performs at rockfest '95. 

Sprint threatens in telephone war 
By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

ln its latest bid to woo long­distance customers, Sprint is introducing a program where callers get money back for talk­ing on the phone. The more they talk, the greater the return. 
Under the program. which Sprint planned to announce Monday, customers will get 10 percent of each monthly phone bill back in cash. The rebate money accumulates and is paid once a year. 
Brian Adamik, an analyst with the Yankee Group, said the plan should increase the company's profitability by reducing "churn" -customers switching to another long-distance compa­ny. 
Wally Meyer, a Sprint vice president, wouldn't disclose the company's churn rate, but he and Adamik agreed churn is a big industry problem. 
To hang onto its customers, AT&T, through its True Re­wards program, provides those who spend $25 or more a month points that can be re­deemed for a variety of items or cash. 
MCI's Friends and Family Ex­tra program also offers cus­tomers redeemable points. 
Not surprisingly, AT&T and MCI criticized Sprint's new plan. 
"Customers don't want to wait a year for savings they should be getting every month," said Chris Mannella, MCI's director of brand marketing. 
"Customers want instant grat­ification," said AT&T spokesman Jim McGann. 
AT&T, in the battle for cus­tamers, introduced a new plan Aug. 18 discounting a wide va­riety of calls made in the United States. 
Sprint customers who want the rebates must enroll at no charge in Sprint Sense, a dis­counted calling plan. 
Sprint Sense debuted Jan. 9. Since then. roughly 1 million people, a combination of exist­ing and new customers, have signed up for it, Meyer said. The plan is largely responsible for a 39 percent increase in residen­tial sales in the first half of 1995, compared to the same period in 1994, he added. 
Under Sprint Sense, cus­tomers pay a flat fee-10 cents a minute from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. daily, including weekends. For peak hours -from 7 a.m. to 7 
p.m. -the fee rises to 22 cents a minute. 
LAST CHANCE! 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1996-97 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
If you are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the infonnational meeting THURSDAY, AUGUST 31 -7:00p.m. 131 DeBartolo with Professor A. James McAdams, Advisor 


-
page6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, August 28, 1995 



UN questions Iraqi claims 
China finds American guilty of spying 
Mexico announces debt plan 


September Fajita/'Rita Monday Madness 
Celebrate the final days of summer every Monday at Chili's with a feast of "Fajitas for Two"... a full pound of delicious, piping hot chicken or beef served sizzlin' with an array of fresh fixings that you wrap in a steaming tortilla. 
FAJITAS FOR TWO 
ONLY $10.00 
This offer is good every Monday, all day throughout the month of September. 
c ON GRAPE ROAD 
By BOB SEAVEY 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

In a chilling revelation following five years of sub­terfuge and denial, Iraq has admitted its weapons program was far more ambitious than previously disclosed. 
It included 199 missiles and bombs armed with germ war­fare ,agents and a crash pro­gram to make a nuclear weapon that began immediate­ly after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990. 
Now the question is: Have the Iraqis at last told the whole truth about their arms buildup five years ago? And, more im­portantly, have they destroyed all the weapons? 
Iraq hopes its latest disclo-
By SARA SILVER 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 

Mexican government and banking officials on Wednesday signed a $1.5 billion debt relief package that will cap interest rates for millions of consumers struggling to pay off loans with rates that soared after the peso devaluation. 
The plan is designed to quiet increasingly loud protests by d"ebtors, especially farmers and ranchers, whose properties have been seized by creditors. 
"The accord signed today is one more step toward overcom­ing the crisis," President Ernesto Zedillo said. 
The plan's cost would be di­vided between the federal gov­sures will encourage the United Nations to lift its crippling oil embargo and trade restrictions. But U.S. Ambassador Madeleine Albright indicated the revelations had the oppo­site effect on the Security Council. 
"We just received a chilling briefing," she said after the council's meeting Friday with the chief U.N. weapons investi­gator, Rolf Ekeus, who has just returned from a fact-finding mission to the Mideast. 
French and British diplomats agreed. 
"These latest disclosures from Baghdad say much more about the credibility of tl;le Iraqi government and the threat it still poses than they do about the possibility of lifting sanc­tions any time soon," Albright 
ernment and the banks holding the loans, represented by the Mexican Bankers Association. 
The plan, effective through September 1996 for most indi­viduals and businesses and until February 1997 for farm­ers, would declare a morato­rium on legal proceedings against debtors who sign an agreement with their banks. 
It is intended to ease the liq­uidity problems-of 6 million debtor~ or 75 percent of those with debts to banks, and to en­sure that banks do not get swamped by defaults from marginal middle class debtors. 
Variable interest rates soared after the peso devaluation of last December. Many borrow­ers found they suddenly could not keep up payments. 
said. 
The oil embargo and other sanctions were imposed after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990. 
An allied force led by the United States drove Iraq out in a two-month war that ended in February 1991. 
U.N. resolutions require Iraq to prove it has destroyed its missiles and weapons of mass destruction -nuclear, biologi­cal and chemical -before the sanctions are lifted. 
But U.N. investigators have long suspected Baghdad has been holding back information about how many weapons it had. Iraq's latest revelations came only after the defection earlier this month of Iraq's weapons chief, Lt. Gen. Hussein Kamel al-Majid, Ekeus said. 
Interest rates rose to the 100 percent range. 
For business loans, the plan will fix an interest rate of 25 percent for debt up to $32,250. Any amount above that would be payable at market rates ­currently 50 percent or higher. 
Credit card debt would be payable at a fixed rate of 38.5 percent for the first $806 of debt, with the balance payable at market rates. 
Mortgages up to $32,250 were to be restructured. 
Also Wednesday, the peso closed at its weakest level against the dollar in more than four months as Mexican banks were cautiously buying the U.S. currency ahead of Zedillo's Sept. 1 state of the union ad­dress. 
By RENEE SCHOOF 

Associated Press 
BEIJING 
A Chinese court on Thursday found American human rights activist Harry Wu guilty of spying and other charges and sentenced him to 15 years in prison. 
The court also said Wu will 
be expelled from China. It 
was unclear whether he 
would first have to serve all 
or part of the sentence. 
Wu was convicted of spying, illegally obtaining, buying and providing state secrets to for­eigners and posing as a gov­ernment worker. the official Xinhua News Agency report­ed. 
He was taken into custody June 19 while trying to enter China from Kazakhstan and was formally arrested July 8 on spying charges. 
He later was taken to 
Wuhan, a city in central 
Hubei province. 

The Wuhan Intermediate People's Court announced its verdict on Thursday morning. Wu has the right to appeal. However, appeals in China _virtually never change the 
verdict. 
The brief report from the 
state-run news service gave 
no other details about the 
case. 
The announcement came on 
the day when Undersecretary 
of State Peter Tarnoff was 
due to arrive in Beijing in an 
effort to repair frosty rela­
tions between the two coun­
tries. 
Sino-U.S. relations are in their deepest slump since China suppressed a democra­cy movement in Beijing's Tiananmen Square six years ago. 
Besides the Wu dete.ntion, the administration was dis­tressed by Chinese missile tests in the East China Sea, just north of Taiwan, as well as Chinese missile sales and human rights practices. 
In June, China was angered by the U.S. decision to allow Taiwanese President Lee Teng-hui to attend a Cornell University reunion in Ithaca, N.Y., claiming Lee had embarked on a campaign for diplomatic recognition for Taiwan. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, in a meeting Aug. 1 in Brunei with Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen, refused to guarantee that the administration never again would issue a visa to a senior Taiwanese official. 
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton had pointedly delayed her decision about whether to participate in a U.N. confer­ence on women next month in Beijing in hopes of seeing progress in Wu's case. 
The women's conference is set for Sept. 4-15. Republican congressional leaders urged Mrs. Clinton to boycott the meeting in protest of China's human rights abuses. 
Wu's wife, Ching Lee Wu, also urged Mrs. Clinton not to 

• attend as long as Wu was being held. 
-----------------~----~---~------------------·­





VIEWPOINT 
Monday, August 28, 1995 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas 
Managing Editor Elizabeth Regan 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Saint Mary' a Editor .................... Paul Carson 
Business Manager Joseph Riley 
Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra· lion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcncrs and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Maty's com­munity and w all readers. The frtt expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.l@nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Commitment to Christ highlights Murphy's life 
P
rofessor Edward J. Murphy, who served on the Law School faculty from 1957 until cancer forced his retire­fi!ent in 1994, died this past July 24. 
Professor Murphy was the leading academic authority in the nation on con­tracts. An exceptionally competent teacher, he taught every student at the Law School from 1957 to 1994. 
Those students and his faculty col­leagues learned much from him. Among other lessons, he taught, by example, that we should do our work very well but should always keep the family as our first priority. We learned from him, too, that constructive change in the law and society, as in this University, is best achieved by organic development rather than by pretentious master plans. 
H
Less well known than his contracts achievements is the unique contribution Ed Murphy made to Notre Dame and to his students by teaching Jurisprudence. He taught that law involves the defini­tion of ultimates, and that it makes no sense to talk about law without af­firming its source. e reminded us that the ultimate source of measure of all law is God, who guides us to our end of eternal hap­piness through his natural law, which is related to reason, and through his explicit Revelation, which is com­municated through the Church, which is the body of Christ, who is God. 
In his 1993 encyclical. "Veritatis Splendor," Pope John Paul II said, "there can be no freedom apart from or in opposition to the truth... [O]nly by obedience to universal moral norms does man lind full confirmation of his personal uniqueness and the possibility of authentic moral growth... These norms in fact represent the unshakable foundation and solid guarantee of a just and peaceful human coexistence, and, hence, of genuine democracy" (No. 96) 
Professor Murphy's teaching embodied those truths. In his essay, "The Sign of the Cross and Jurisprudence," in the Notre Dame Law Review last year, he wrote, "Every class I have taught in Notre Dame Law School has begun with the same action and the same words. I have made the ancient Sign of the Cross while saying, "In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit." 
The trinity is the central fact of all reality. There is nothing more basic than this. It is a fact of such overriding significance that everything else must be seen in relationship to it. By affirming the Trinity as we begin a law class, we make a fundamental jurisprudential statement. 


Charles Rice 
W
e acknowledge God as sovereign, and we pledge to model our work in the law upon what we know of His law-order. We cannot escape reality. According to God's word, we obey and we are blessed; we disobey and we are cursed. His moral laws are just as ob­jective as His physical laws. We may, of course. ignore a law of God or pretend that it does not exist. But we must still suffer the consequences of violation. 
It is, however, precisely this objective character that provides encouragement and hope. For the judgments are them­selves therapeutic; they can have a heal­ing effect. In whatever we do, let it be with confidence in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit." 
In his teaching, Professor Murphy uniquely integrated faith and morality with the law_ What he taught is needed by law students today, including those at Notre Dame. Moreover, he was gifted with an exceptional ability to communi­cate on varied levels. 
For ten years, he and I team-taught a senior apologetics course on a volunteer basis at Marian High School. His own book, "Life to the Full", was his basic 

H
text. I still encounter students in that course whose spontaneous comments evidence the impact his teaching had on their lives. owever, the most effective class I ever saw Ed Murphy give was not even in a classroom. It was on a September night in 1989, when he led a handful of others in reciting the Rosary outside the Snite Museum in protest of, and reparation for, Notre Dame's spon­sorship of a public showing of The Last Temptation ofChrist. 
Professor Murphy accurately described that film as "a blasphemy of Christ" and its sponsorship by the Uni­versity as an "outrage." His witness, though quiet and dignified, was politi­cally very incorrect. Very few joined him in it. Yet I am sure he would have gone out there all by himself, even if no one had followed his lead. He knew it was the right thing to do. That night he was a great teacher at his best, for those who were there and for those who would later reflect upon his witness. 
After retirement, and while he was lighting cancer, Professor Murphy em­barked on one of his most intriguing enterprises. 
T
He wrote and published, as a family project. a card collection of Catholic saints. "When I noticed," he said, "that a trading card series was being issued featuring prominent criminals, I knew it was time to act." The cards include a classic picture or photograph and a short biography meticulously researched and written by Professor Murphy him­self. hey range from the Apostles to St. Maximilian Kolbe. "Most of the saints are kind of stereotyped, a little bit syrupy. We wanted a more realistic pic­ture," Murphy said. The second set of fifty cards was published the day before Professor Murphy's funeral. 
Incidentally, the numbers one through 50 in the series were reserved for cards relating to the Blessed Mother_ "She comes first," said Murphy, who was preparing to start work on those cards when he died. The thought occurs that Mary said to this good man, "Well done. 
Now come on home, and let me take 
care of the rest." 
"The most glorious and desirable 
death," wrote St. Vincent de Paul, "is 
that which surprises us with arms in our 
hands for the service of the Lord." That 
describes in detail the death of Ed 
Murphy. 
T
His death was not immediately expect­ed. He had just picked up a very large number of orders for the saint cards. Ed regarded those cards, and his books and other writings on God's law and jurisprudence, as more important than all his excellent technical legal works. he saint cards are a novel idea; they 
are popular and they are timeless. 
Their impact will go on for generations, 
especially with the young. In a real 
sense, those cards were the weapons, in 
Ed's hands for the service of the Lord, 
when he died. 
In a larger sense, Ed Murphy spent his 
entire life in service to Christ. He was 
more effective and frustrating to the 
opposition, because of his unfailing 
kindness and fairness. Some might dis­
agree with him, but no one could resent 
him or accord him anything but the 
highest respect. 
He was informed and uncompromising 
in his support of all the moral and social 
teachings of the Catholic Church, in his 
insistence that a Catholic university 
ought to be unequivocally Catholic, and 
in his defense of the right to life of the 
innocent, including first of all the un­
born child. 
I
Ed Murphy's commitment to Christ was total, especially through his dedi­cation to Mary and the Rosary. which he prayed with his wife, Mary Ann, in the car, minutes before he died. t is fitting that Ed Murphy died a death which was, "the most glorious and desirable" because he died in "the ser­vice of the Lord." Eternal rest grant unto him, 0 Lord, and let perpetual light shine upon him. May his soul and the souls of all the faithful departed, through the mercy of God, rest in peace. 
Professor Rice is on the Law Sahool faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY
• 000NESBURY 
H!I..U), I'M JOAN/& CAUCUS. 
FOR. TH&PA5T32 MONTHS, 
7H& !313NAT& HA?fAll£() 70 
HOW PU8l/CHCARJN6S ON 
7HC. AUt&W5t:XUAl M!§(.(;W­
IlUC.T OF ON& OF IT~ 0/A/N... 
TOI?AY TH& ''PAc.KIA/001? 19" AR/3 5f3&J<JNG RE:COU/?'313. 7Hef HAV& &N6A6tl?/rib 7lJ!iCCIJR& 7HI~ ~ACE FOR 7H& 13NTIRE tv£&!< §0 THAT 7HeYMAYHal? 
7H&IR 0/A/N P!J8l/C HCAR//ok35. 
8Y 8&ARING /AJ/TN/3-~S Ht-R£., TH&Y HOP!J lOFINI?A KIN/? 
OF JU~ne& THATHA'3 BeeN /JeNIW 7HCMFOR 50toNG \. 8Y... 8Y. .. 
"Interviewers want you to bring out your intestines." 
-Marlene Dietrich 



ACCE,NT 
page 8 Monday, August 28, 1995 
, 
• SUMMER MOVIE RECAP 
To the moon 
and back again 
From the Scottish Highlands to the Moon, . 0 d
' . d h b' I 1liD OW
thIS. summer s moVIes spanne t e prover Ia .. 
gauntlet. The films seemed to be dominated Accent Theater Cnuc either by large-scale epics complete with traditional hacking and hewing or by elaborate, futuristic fantasies with computer enhanced special effects. The summer was weak on solid dra­mas with the possible exception of the tear-jerking yarn, "Bridges of Madison County." If you let the summer blow by without catching any of the romantic comedies like Hugh Grant's "Nine Months," "French Kiss" or "Forget Paris," don't worry. You didn't miss anything. Unfortunately, most summer films insisted upon looking forward or looking backward. Very few actually commented upon the world we live in today. It appears as if the audience needs to escape now more than ever. So, let's journey through the past four months as I briefly review select summer films. "Rob Roy": I'll bet that your first reaction is Rob Who? Didn't this fllm get smashed by Mel Gibson's blockbuster epic "Braveheart?" Well, yes it did and that is a tragedy. "Rob Roy" is my favorite film of the summer and it is one of the greatest historical epics ever made. I saw the fllm while in London one month after returning from the Highlands of Scotland. So, this glorious picture will forever remain special to me. _This film is a grand combination of action-adventure and grip­pmg romance. The fight scenes are limited and well-edited. The final duel lasts about ten minutes and includes some of the greatest camera work and creative sword fighting in film histo­ry. It has a deadly but elegant climax. The entire film looks incredible. The existential nature of the Highland scenery beck­ons the audience to travel and explore. The villains of this piece are comic but brutal. Once again, di­rector Michael Canton-Jones delicately blends sadistic humor with blatant horror. Jessica Lange plays Rob Roy's loyal wife; she is an inspirational, powerful figure and Lange carefully steals the picture. Tim Roth and John Hurt as the effeminate English villains are hilarious. Please rent this film! **** (out of four) "Batman Forever": Holy plot folks! Director Joel Schumacher takes over from the able Tim Burton and creates a Batman that is wholly his own, leaving us with a major problem. "Batman Forever" was supposed to be a sequel. At least Tim Burton had a stylistic vision. Mr. Schumacher throws a little of this and a lit­tle of that into his Bat Brew. The result is a very confusing, dizzying spectacle. Yes, the ftlm moves at lightning speed, but it gave me a headache. The camera twists and turns so much dur­ing the action sequences that the viewer is hard-pressed to deci­pher what is happening. We are presented with too many "main" characters and none of them are well-developed. Why does there have to be two villains? Where is Jack Nicholson when you need him? . The actin~ is merely mediocre. Val Kilmer looks more impres­SIVe than Michael Keaton but he mumbles in a monotone that ~ol:"dn't scare ~rank Gorschin's lovable TV Riddler. Jim Carey \S simply annoymg and Tommy Lee Jones, a brilliant actor, seemed displaced and miscast. He wasn't given much to do but s:'larl. Observe the fmal sequence again and note how many times the camera cuts to him doing nothing. He stands in awk­ward awe of Jim Carey's scene-chomping Riddler. Chris O'Donnell tries very earnestly to create a believable Robin, but he is not given enough time to develop this essential character. This "Batman" is Forever Flawed. Can't you wait for Patrick Stewart's Mr. Freeze next summer?? * "Apollo 13": Ron Howard's almost documental recreation of the famous 1970 lunar mission had a lot of potential to be a real engulfmg, suspenseful thriller. Ironically, it turns out to be the most grounded fllm of the summer. I don't mean that necessar­ily negatively because the fllm does succeed in its own prodding way. The film is very real. We are invited to voyage to the moon and we learn all about space travel. The fllm is very scientific and detailed but it remains comprehensible. I felt like I was re­ceiving a lesson in aerospace physics. The astronauts, except Gary Sinise's sympathetic savior, are not very interesting. At times, they seemed like cardboard cutouts. Perhaps this treatment is realistic but it does not lend itself_ to riveting acting. Besides Sinise and 'the sparkplug Ed Hams (as a fiercely determined NASA flight controller) the other characters just seemed dull. I will admit that the film picked up in the final half-hour. Any American would be proud to witness the safe return of three daring, heroic men. My heart raced not really from the action en screen but from the realization that this incredible event really happened and how exciting it must have been to live through it. The Apollo 13 mission should have been left to news­reel footage and nostalgic flashbacks. ** ."Clueless" : This silly and sweet teenage comedy is a real gem. Drrector Amy Heckerling's inspired decision to set Jane Austen's "Emma" among Beverly Hills teenagers works perfectly. The ravishingly beautiful Alicia Silverstone plays the matchmaker for everyone but herself. She is a natural actress with an unas­suming flair. She is a real find and destined to become a star. The film is very hip and very attractive. It is also harmless. It does not deal incessantly with sexual situations, drug use or al­cohol like many of today's R rated teenage films. Instead it tastefully c~mments upon modern technology. This Beverly Hills teen world mcludes cellular phones, nose jobs, funny mall speak, and politically correct discourse. You will be charmed. Keep a lookout for Carla's husband from "Cheers" as Alicia's father--he's a riot! *** 
This may not be Kansas. 
+ + 

Even South Bend is vulnerable to tornadoes 
By KRISTA NANNERY 
Accent Editor 
Tornado Watch in effect? What? I thought tornadoes only happened to girls named Dorothy in Kansas! You've gotta be kidding me! A tornado? In South Bend, . Indiana? c-"~ 
No Joke. It could happen. Maybe you've seen ~ the signs up around campus. Those green ones ·· with instructions about what to do in case of a tor­nado. Hide in the basement and all that. What's all' . the fuss about, you ask? Should I nail everything to ~ the floor now? Hang on a minute. Don't get swept away (pun intended). We'll explain. 
First, what is a tornado? It's simple. Sometimes the atmosphere gets a little excited. Usually, a thun­derstorm has just passed over. There may be a load r?aring noise and some hail. (It's thought that the Size of a hailstone may foretell the intensity of an oncoming tornado.) This is all brought on by all 
' A tornado warning requires 
~mediate action because a 
tornado has been sighted, either visually 
or on radar and Notre Dame is in its path. 
The St. Joseph's County Civil Defense Tornado Warning system will activate the siren near the North Dining Hall. For tornadoes, the siren will issue a steady tone for 3 to 5 minutes...If the siren is sounded all community member should: r 
A. Take shelter in the nearest substantial building immediately. 
B. Go to the basement or to an interior corridor. 
C. Avoid windows, larger rooms, auditoriums or gymnasiums. 
DuLac 
those fronts you always hear about on television. The cool air from Canada swoops down and meets the warm, moist air from Mexico. Instant karma! The cool air slips right under the warm air, causing it to condense and form clouds. 
When a thunderstorm occurs, columns of air rise (updrafts), providing the storm with warm air; there are also down drafts which bring rain and cool air to the earth's surface. During a severe thunderstorm, strong winds may combine to force an updraft to twist and turn. This is what's called a mesocyclone. It will spin even faster with more warm air. As it cools, it forms a funnel shaped cloud. Soon, it will be able to stretch down from the clouds. If it touches the ground, it could become a tornado. 
The inside of a tornado is characterized by low pres­sure. As the funnel moves over the ground, it can and often will sweep up everything in its path. Often, a tornado gets its color from whatever debris it has swept up. For exam­ple, a newly plowed field will produce a brown tornado. To sur­viv~ th~ugh, the tornado needs heat energy. Without more warm, mmst air, the funnel will rotate slower and slower. Soon it will die. 
. Tornadoes are unpredictable, if anything. They can occur any­time of year, but usually strike in spring and summer. They occur mostly in the United States; Texas has the record for the greatest . ..·: · number. The deadliest tornado in history occurred on March 18:~ . .-.-.;.. . ~ . 1_925. They call it the "Tri-State-Tornado." In three and a half hours, it ·.·: npped through 219 miles of Missouri, Illinois and Indiana. The "Tri-State-Tornado" left behind 689 dead, 2000 injured and 11,000 homeless. 
. When conditions are ripe for a tornado, you'll often see a "Tornado Watch" graphic on the lower ng~t hand corner of your television screen. This is not to be confused with a "Tornado Warning." This means that_someone ha~ actually seen the tornado or that it has shown up on radar. 
~en ~aced With an oncommg tornado, your best bet is to head for shelter. Basements are good, as a~e mtenor hallways, closets or small rooms. Stay away from windows as they might be damaged by Win~s. If you are outdoors, find the lowest area possible and lie down flat, covering your head. If you are m your car, leave it for lower ground. . . Altho'!gh there's little ~h~!lce that a tornado will whip you along into the magical world of Oz, there IS defimtely a good possibility of severe damage and injury. As with all cases of extreme weather please use caution when driving or when outside. Remember, you don't have to be named Dorothy t~ be swept away. 
Monday, August 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 9 
• PROFESSIONAL TENNIS 
Seles returns to U.S. Op~n following 2 1/2 year layoff 
• By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Pr.ss · 
NEW YORK 

The giggle is bar.k at the U.S. Open, and Monica Seles feels home at last. 
Seles returned just for the fun of it Sunday, playing doubles for charity with comedian Bill Cosby in the Arthur Ashe AIDS Tennis ChalUmge, and is set for prime time Monday night in her first Grand Slam match in more than 2 1/2 years. 
Seles looked delighted to be back at the National Tennis Center as she signed dozens of a:utographs for children on one side of the stadium, then jogged to the other side and signed dozens more. The crowd gave her a long, warm ovation when she first came out, and another when she was introduced at the start of a celebrity doubles match with Tracy Austin and Nick Lowery. 
Laughing most of the time on court while Cosby joked around, Seles still managed to show off a few of the strukes that made her a champion. 
"It felt great," Seles said of her return to the stadium where she won the title in 1991 and '92 before she was stabbed the following spring in Ger­many. "I get very nervous play­ing the pro-celebrity stuff because you are not sure how hard you're supposed to hit. I don't think my entire career I ever won a celebrity match. 
"Friday night, when I first practiced in the stadium, the first five minutes everything felt very new. But after five min­utes, it felt like I was here. It was like my home." 
Earlier in the day, Seles shot a commercial in Forest Hills, the former home of the U.S. Open. 
"(Forest Hills) was just an eerie feeling," she said. "It was such a pretty place, and it was so empty. Flushing, which is so modern. was, like, what a con­trast." 
Seles said the tendinitis in her left knee remains painful and could worsen the longer she plays on the hardcourts at the Open. She plans to rest her knee for several weeks after the Open. 
"I r.an't bend down all the way, and I can't, in any way, train or do any running," she said. "It started from running a lot on the pavement, which my dad told me not to do. But, of course, being stubborn, I did it anyway. And in playing on hardcourts, I think the combi­nation was just too much. Being very inflexible, the tendon just started pulling inside and it got tighter and tighter." 
Seles clenched her fist to shot how tight and stiff the tendon feels.Nevertheless, the U.S. Open wasted no time putting their featured attraction in the spotlight the first night, and she was given a draw that could let her cruise to the final. 
Seles is coming off a victory in the Canadian Open and expects little trouble Monday night, ex­cept perhaps some nervous­ness, against No. 44 Ruxandra Dragomir of Romania, who lost in the second round last year and the first round the year before. 
"Physically, I am definitely not in the shape that I wanted to be, but that is something that you have to accept and make the best of it." 
The Observer accepts classifieds ~ery business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
[ NOTICES 
und parents: B & B football week­ends, 2 miles to campus, call219­277-6632 
HYPNOTIST -INDIVIDUALS OR SMALL GROUPS-MORNINGS, AFTERNOONS, EVENINGS-STOP SMOKING, WEIGHT CONTROL, PHOBIAS, ENHANCED LEARN­ING, SPORTS PERFRO­MANCE, SEXUAL DYSFUNCTION. MEDICAL AND DENTAL ANAES­THESIA 234-2095 
ILOST & FOUND I 
••••••••••••••FOUND •••••••••••••• a gold quartz pulsar watch near the library circle. call X-3525. 
TWO KEYES ON RING IN STEPAN FIELD DURING THE PICNIC DINNER 6/23 ••••• PLEASE CALL 634-4646 ••••• 
WANTED 
Need a fun-loving, responsible stu­dent to babysit 2 children ages 5& 7 In my Granger home 2·3 afternoons a week 2-6 pm. Must have own transportation. Please call 
277-5766. 
WANTED: Saint Mary's sports writ­ers and photographers. You do not have to commit on a lull-time basis. Call Caroline at 264-4349 or come by room 222 in Holy Cross Hall. 
FANTASY NFL FOOTBALL l(lterested in. s.tarting a league? CALL 269-2604 Leave message 
OFF CAMPUS? NEED MONEY? Established campus band looking for place to play. Call Jerry x1197 
Subway Sandwich Shops is now hiring part-time Sandwich Artists. Close to campus. will work around your schedule. competitive pay and a free sub everytime you work. Call Penny at 277-7744. Call today and you could start tommorrow. 
Macri's Deli In downtown South Bend is now hiring for all 
positions. Looking lor reliable, hard working people in return for a fun work atmosphere and flexible schedules. Apply in person, 2-Sp.m., 214 N. Niles Ave. 
Eam $2500 & Free Spring Break Tripsl Sell 6 Trips & Go Freel Best Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break Travell1·600-676-6366 
BABYSITTER NEEDED TO CARE FOR 2-AND 5-YEAR OLD IN HOME LOCATED 10 MI. SO. OF ND. ANY BLOCK OF TIME BETWEEN 9:30-5:00 MON.-FRI. TRANSPORTATION A MUST. CALL 299.0051. 
$1000 FUND RAISER Fraternities, Sororities & Student Organizations. You've seen credit card lundraisers before, but you've never seen the Citibank fundraiser that pays $5.00 per application. Call Donna at 
1·600-932-0256 ext. 65. Qualified callers .receive a FREE camera. 
WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS· SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN. 219-462-6943 
FOR RENT 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 
232-2595 

HOUSE FOR RENT 2 Bedrooms lor rent in home close to campus on State Ad 23. Private entrance & garage. Share bath and kitchen. $275.00 + 1/3 utilities. Leave mess. : 273-6126 
ROOM WITH KITCHEN, UTILI· 
TIES, ETC. $250/MO. CLOSE TO 
CAMPUS IN SAFE NEIGHBOR­
HOOD. CALL PAUL 232-2794. 
Student sub-leasing room in Lafayette Square Townhomes. 1 mile from campus, just remodeled, 
very spacious and very nice, male 
only, need to rent, 200/month. Call 
Greg (219)-234.0965 
Affordable, clean, student apts. 
Furnished studio, $235 
Furnished 1 bedrm, $270 
heat & water included 
755 South Bend Ave -1 block from 
N.D. Ave deposit, refensnces 1-600-562-9320 
3 BEDROOM HOUSE GOOD NEIGHBORHOOD ON BULLA AD 5 MINUTE WALK TO ND 2773097 
Furnished Room. Clean, attractive. Kitchen privileges. Quiet neighbor­hood. 2 mi. to N.D. $200 per month. Call 262-2576. 
FOR SALE 
1990 HONDA CIVIC DX 4 DOOR 
STICK 50,000MI $5300 272-2916 
1990 Honda CRX Sl Yellow 5­Speed 59K $6950 Firmlll277-9276 
Waterbed super single size with book headboard and twelve draw­ers. Includes black satin sheets and bedspread with a drain and fill kit. $200.00 266-3366 
Desk 2 drawers (1 file drawer) 
$50 abo 273-5930 

One SMC-Approved loft for sale. 
Just $3011. Buy it soon. Call Kira 
264-5502. 
FOR SALE 

Senior Stud Appl. Best Olferl 
Call Colleen: 264-4356 
GREAT DEALIII Round trip plane ticket­South Bend to Los Angeles, ONLY $230. 
Call Rosanna, 234-3466. 
NEED A ONE WAY TO SAN JOSE ? 1 ticket from Chicago to San Jose, CA $125 #4-4144 
TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061.24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED 
GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. 
BUY'SELL'TRADE 
(219) 232-0056-24 HAS. 
BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 ND SEASON TICKETS ANY OR ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. andWASHINGTON A MUST PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........ 2771659 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED STUD TIX APPSIII 
I NEED STUD TIX APPSIII 
CALL 273·604 7 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Heyl I need four tickets (GA or Student) to the Texas game. I'll be your best friefld, and pay you lots of money. Call Eric at 4-0669. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS 
WILL PAY$$$$$$ 
NEED MARRIED STUD TIX APPS 
CALL 273-6047 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. CALL ALISON 1·600-431-0010, EXT. 6796. 
--NEEDED--­
2 BC GEN. ADM IS. 
FOOTBALL TIX 
CALL4X2910 
Will trade 2 USC-NO GA's for 
2 OSU-ND tickets. Call Jim at 
233-9904. 

·····································Lo 
OKING TO BUY STUDENT TICK­
ET BOOKLETS. CALL JEN@ 
273-1736 
My wile will kill me. Need set of 
Married Student tix. Brett 272­
7223 
Wealthy Alum needs tix lor all home games. Brett 272-7223 
Desperate student needs 1 ticket to N-westem game for Mom. PLEASE call Kevin at 4-4524 

NEEDED:3 TIX FOR NORTH­WESTERN WILL PAY$$$ CALL 2675 
Desperately need USC ticketslll 3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student Please call Chris at 266-7643. 
I need 2 Texas tickets and as many tix for Vanderbilt as possible. Please call Kathleen at 4643. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy! Call1-600-223-2440 Ex1.4370 $$$$$$ 
need vanderbilt tickets GA's or married student tix call Dan@ 273-4760 
$$$$$$$$$ Need Tix: GA and Student for 
USC and Texas. CALL Tim x3669 $$$$$$$$$ 
ne!ld TEXAS, USC, BC tkts call Mike x4429 
I HAVE USC TIX Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­Ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs. Call Matt W(312)704-7704 ;-t(312)549-0625 
NEED 4 NORTHWESTERN GAs Physician doing the buying-BIG BUCKS OFFERED! Call Ryan at 233-5273. *Also need BC student !lx. 
$120 for your stud tix book, grad or senior preferred. Chi-chi @ 273-4791 
$$$Buying Ticket Applications. Call Doug at 277-7230$$$ 
NEED 1 Northwestern ticket. Call Kathleen x2322 
Need G.A. Tlx to NO-Texas. Call Joe at 267-4561 before 10 p.m. 
$$$$$ Need4BCtix Will trade Navy (parents weekend) Joe x1726 
4 SEN10R FOOTBALL APPLICA­TIONS FOR SALEIII CALL SOON AND THEY CAN BE YOURS!@#$% Lisa 264-5147 
ND ALUMNI NEEDS 2 FOOTBALL SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­AL USE PAY WELL 2773097 
Need N-Western tix, stud or GA. Call Tim@ x1201. PLEASEII 
HELPII I need 1 NW Stu or GA Elaine 42369 
NEED 2 WASHINGTON TICKETS. x3520 
NOTRE DAME season tickets wanted. Top dollar paid. 674-7625 (24 hrs.} 
I need Northwestern ticket&. Please call Bryan 272 4249 
PLEASE HELP MElli 

I need a G.A. for the Northwestern 
Gam~all Leah x4765 

Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas 
game -Reggie x4297 
NEED GA's TO ANY HOME 
GAMEIIIII 
CALL KATIE X1093 

NEED GA OR STUDENT TICKETS TO USC AND TEXAS HOME GAMESII WILL PAY GOOD$$$$ CALL CHRIS @ 239-6922 
NEEDED -NORTHWESTERN 

GA'S AND STUD TIX, PLEASE 
CALL 273-3292 
WANTED: 3 USC TXS 
PLEASE CALL 312-551-3552 
Need 1 Texas, will trade 1 
Northwestern 
Karen X4265 

OSU TIX-I need 4. Will trade 4 
Purdue tix plus large sums of cash 
for tickets to see Irish crush 
Buckeyes. II you can help, call 
x3349. 

I NEED NORTHWESTERN AND TEXAS TICKETS WILL TRADE FOR PURDUE OR CASH 
CALL DENNIS@ (312) 951-5006 
NEED STUD TIX APPS 
WILL PAY BIG$$$ 
CALL 273-5295 

LOST: Two tix to Texas Gamell Can you help me lind them? My old ND roommate Is driving out all the way from NYC. Pleasa help! Will pay big $$$$ Call KA TY at 634-4410. 
IIIII In desperate need of 2 TEXAS GAs for grandparents. Call Kevin x0564 
Texas Boy needs Texas GAs. Call 
Miguel at X3336. 
HELPIII I NEED OSU TIXIII 

Willing to pay $ or trade for PUR­
DUE or USC GA's. call Dawn 
x3793 

I Desperately Need Tickets To The 
Texas Gamel Please Helpl Call . Kate at 2696. 
WILL TRADE 2 NW GAs FOR 2 TX GAs. CALL NICOLE@ 1-600-627­2637 BETW 9AM & 5PM 
NEED 3 NORTHWESTERN STUD. TICKS. MATT @266-3623 NEED STUD TICKS APPLICAT. OR WHOLE BOOKS • @ 266-3623 
PERSONAL 

Hey SMC. Need a loft? Buy mine­cheapl x5502. 
$5.50 HAIRCUTS 
VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND -233·4767 
WE CAN'T EXIST WITHOUT YOUI 
Fight the apathy that seems to run rampant in this community of Notre Dame/Saint Mary's/Holy Cross. If you have a gripe, issue, concern, etc. SHARE it. Let YOUR voice be heard. 
The Observer's Viewpoint Department exists as a service to you. You make the section what It Is. We need you. 
FIGHT THE APATHY. SUBMIT! 
Hey Miss KT: Are you a freak? 
Huss 
Norby, you know you got beat. 
Joey T, even the Mariners are bet­ter than Jazzmen's. 
Valentino, how's your calculator. 
Come on, 19's nothing. 
You really can't stop Canseco. As a matter of fact, you can't even con­tain him. 
The Red Sox could win even with Sam Malone pitching 1, 4, and 7. Actually, Norm could play first and 
the Tribe still wouldn't have a 
pnsyer. 
ND/SMC STUDENTS! 
HAVE YOU EVER BEEN TURNED 
DOWN FOR CREDIT? 
HAVE YOU EVER BEEN HUNTED 
DOWN BY A BILL COLLECTOR? 
HAVE YOU EVER HAD ANY TYPE OF FINANCIAL PROBLEMS, AS FAR AS CREDIT CARDS ARE CONCERNED? 
IF YOU ANSWERED YES TO ANY OF THESE QUESTIONS, CALL KRISTA AND JOEY AT 1-4540 
IF YOUR BAND WILL BE PLAYING THIS WEEKEND, LET THE FOLKS AT ACCENT KNOWI 631-4540 
N 
Alta-
How about Corby's tonight? Don't 
forget your Gold . 
love Tony 
Congratulations Bridge and Bobl 
toga..Toga..TOGA 
Oh nol Body micell 
I lerve my old roommates! 
Lisa is sweet and all men want her. 


~----·-~---~--------------~-_,________ 
page 10 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

By RICKWARNER 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD,N.J. 
Along kickoff return, an even longer scoring drive and the running of Eddie George helped No. 12 Ohio State rout No. 22 Boston College 38-6 Sunday in the Kickoff Classic. 
Shawn Springs scored on a 97 -yard kickoff return, the Buckeyes marched 99 yards for another touchdown and George ran for two TDs in the second game of the college football season. 
It was a stark contrast to Saturday's thrilling opener at the Pigskin Classic, where Michigan beat Virginia 18-17 with a touchdown pass on the final play. 
This one was decided with 
2:13 left in the third quarter, when George's 9-yard scoring run made it 31-6 one play after Ohio State recovered a fumble 

Holtz 
continued from page 16 
nod to start Saturday. 
Freshman Jerry Wisne, who was recently converted from the defensive to the offensive line, tore ligaments in his thumb Saturday, but is expected to continue to prac­tice this week. 
Even with the bumps and bruises, however, the coach was happy with quite a few phases of the game. 
"The backs really impressed me," he said. "Robert Farmer, Randy Kinder, Marc Edwards and Jamie Spencer did a superb job. 
"But we're still not in a good enough rhythm running the football.".. 
And while he thought his kicking problems were solved when Kevin Kopka signed his letter of intent with Notre Dame, Holtz remarked that there is more than ample room for improvement. · 
"He's having trouble with his accuracy on field goals," he continued. "He can hit five in a row from 50 yards, but he'll miss five in a row from 30." 
And, what every coach fmds himself doing one week before the season starts, the coach was troubled with how the team would perform if the starters went down. 
"We don't really have a number two team right now," Holtz said. "My biggest con­cern is with our number two quarterback." 
Tom Krug was running the second team, but had trouble with his consistency on Saturday. But freshman Hunter Smith, the team's punter. stepped in to lead the number two team into the end zone on his first drive. 
,". 

.... 
•1ft 11111111111 (H) !:10, 4:30, 7:01, 1:38 •frll Willy 2(JIG) 1:15,3:15,5:21,7:31,1:40 
•A Dll IIIArllrl 2!PGI 1:15,3:311,5:35,7:40,9:51 
•Dl Mysbrs Clil* (PG) 1:31, 3:35, 5:15, 7:25, 1:35 •A WikiDI-(PG-13) 1:H, t11,5:41, 7:55,11:18 
....-·(II)1:15,3:41,5:51,1:11,11:21 
•Bill (G) 1:15,3:11,5:15,7:21, 1:!1 .........(PG-13) 1:35, 3:45, 5:45, 7:45,1:45, 
•IIIII I Dl ~(PG) 1:lO, 3:!5, 5:31, 7:35, 8:55 •IIIII' Sill 2(H) 1:18,3:25,5:31,7:50, 10:00 
...,_ 
$1 7J ALL ~EArS IJ~~onE 6 Pf.1
*tiO PASSb · ~UI>W~AVERS f,(.CEPTEO 

Mail to: 'Couhes· Tickers • Washington Hall, Unlvorsity ill Notl'l! Damo, Notro Dame, IN 4S55G. Make checks payable ta: UnlvctSity ol Natro Damo I ~· 
~· ::J Visa ~ Mastan:ard Card # __-·-· ___ ............................., .,..~~·-·-...... .... .... . . ...... -..............-.--... ·---·-~---Exp, data I·~>] ____
1 I 
.)~ I 
) I 
,f Address ----·--. -------·--·----~----..... I
i;t f.. · ·1 City/State/Zip I , 
'I # of tickets x $50 each =S total. Performance: 0 Friday, Sept 8 Cl Saturday, Sept. 9 ~: I_ I 
;: -· ~~~~~~~,~~~-~--~~~..~~~~~~~~:~0~'>et~/r~~~-~-~ ..~-~e"~-~~J~J'j,~~~-~-~~,.,,,.._~-~--.....,--~.~~=--~-~~~­
Friday, April 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Piazza's RBI record leads Los Angeles over Philadelphia 
A.sociated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA 

With red-hot Mike Piazza pro­viding the spark, the Los Angeles Dodgers put on an explosive defensive display against the Philadelphia Phillies. 
''I'm in a pretty good groove." Piazza said after hitting two homers, including a grand slum, and two doubles and knocking in seven runs as Los Angeles defeated Philadelphia 9-1 Sunday night. 
Piazza also walked, and his five plate appearances enabled him to take over the NL batting lead at .367, as well as tie Seattle's Edgar Martinez for the major league lead. 
"It was just one of those nights," Piazza said. "I saw the ball well and I had some nice, quick swings. I'm just seeing the ball real well lately." 
In his last two games, Piazza has four home runs and 10 HBis. In his last 29 ai-bats, he has 14 hits, eight home runs and 11 HB!s. 
"I can't describe it, I'm just trying to be aggressive at the plate," Piazza said. ''I'll just try to enjoy this as much as I can because it will subside eventu­ally. You've got to ride the wave." 
The victory enabled the Dodgers to snap the Phillies' four-game winning streak and avoid being swept in the four­game series. 
"We really needed to win this one after losing three in a row," Piazza said. "Now we go home, and we've played very well there this season." 



ings. Our new hotline is 1" hers, and addresses.
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
81lEC. Challenge-U-Aerobics• Sign­OfT-Campus Football-Anyone 
Shorin~Ryu Karate-Semester up for interval and advanced interestod in playing for the off­
long course that meets in aerobics classes at the Rec· 
campus interhall football team 
Rockne 219 M/W 4:30-6:30 +Sports office. .Call 1·5965 for must contact Bill at 273-1.929 
starting Wednesday, Sept. 14. further details. 
by Wednesday, August 30. 
Register in advance, and the fee is $15. A demonstration will be Broadcast Irish Football~ RecSports lntramurals-. Rae­held on Sept. 4 at 5 p.m. Call._,, WVFI needs assistants to help
Sports is· offering Interhall & 
RecSports for 'more info. ND football games. If Grnd!Fac/Staff Bnseball. Inter­hall (Men's and Women's) foot­
Horseback Riding~ 
ball, IH and Grad/Fac/Staff 
mational meeting will be (Men's singles, Women's sin· on Thursday, Sept 7 at 6 gles, & mixed doubles) tennis, the Rolfs AquaticFreshman Swim Meet and 16" 
room, Class & Co-Ree Softball. The entry 
and more info at dates are from 8/23 to 8/30 in 
Athletic Cotnmissione the RecSports office. Please 
hall commissioners 
call RecSports (1-6100) for date 
contact the ue<~,:,ponlnnd time f'or captains' meet-
We need names, 

Fall Breal< Seminars 
October 15-20, 1995 Experiential/Service Learning 
Ce11ter for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
Service learning at one of eleven sites in the Appalachian region 
One-credit Theology InfonTtalion ITteeting (optional): 
Tuesday, Aug 29, 7:00-7:30 PM 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
Explore the cui tural richness of Chicago Examines issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs 

Information meeting: Tuesday, Aug. 29: 4:00-4:30 PM 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Theme: Welfare: Private or Public Responsibility? 
Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government 

Information meeting: Tuesday, Aug. 29: 6:30-7:00 PM 

Applications Available Now at the Center for Social Concerns 
Applications Due: Sept. 7, 1995 
All Seminars Return Friday, October 20th for Weekend 
Phillies manager Jim Fregosi: "Piazza had a heck of a night. He really hits the ball hard." 
Regarding Phillies starter Tommy Greene, who has now lost four straight decisions since coming off the disabled list on August 2, Fergosi said, "Greene got a couple of break­ing balls up, but I think overall he has shown improvement." 
Asked if Greene would stay in the rotation, Fergosi said, ''I'm not making any judgment at this time. I'll decide in a couple of days." 
Philadelphia ended its 10­game homestand with an 8-2 record. 
Kevin Tapani (2-1). making his sixth start since being acquired from Minnesota on July 31, allowed five hits, tied his season high with nine strikeouts and did not walk a batter in eight innings. The only run he allowed was Jim Eisenreich's sixth-inning homer. 
The Dodgers led 3-0 going into the sixth when they loaded the bases off Greene (0-4). Chad Fonville reached on a throwing error by Phillies shortstop Kevin Stocker, was sacrificed to second and went to third on Brett Butler's single. 
After Jose Offerman walked, Piazza connected for his 25th homer on a drive to left-center. It was his second grand slam 


Peters 
continued from page 16 
her fitness base," said Petrucelli. "The aerobic part of soccer that involves running over long distances needs to be adapted to." 
In addition to the physical as­pect, the transition to such a talent-ladened squad can some­times be problematic. 
this year and the fourth of his career. 
In the Dodgers eighth, Piazza hit his second home run of the game off reliever Paul Fletcher, this one to right center. It was his eighth home run in his last seven games. 
The Dodgers scored their first three runs in the third. Butler walked, stole second and scored on Piazza's one-out dou­ble. One out later, Haul Mondesi hit his 21st homer. 
Antonio Osuna pitched the ninth for the Dodgers. Notes: 
Phillies first baseman Gregg Jefferies was back in the lineup Sunday. Jefferies missed Satur­day night's game to be with his ·' wife, who gave birth to a baby girl early Sunday morning... The Phillies are 4-1 this season in games in which their starting pitcher got knocked out in the second inning. 
The Dodgers, who lead the majors with 106 errors, have committed two errors or more in a game 26 times. Their record in those games is 9-17 ... Right fielder Raul Mondesi struck out in all four of his at­bats Saturday night for the first time in his career.... Mike Piazza's seven RBis ties the most by a Phillies' opponent at Veterans Stadium. Cincinnati's Johnny Bench, the Cardinals' George Hendrick and San Fran­cisco's Will Clark all accom­plished the feat. 
"It's really difficult to compete 
at such a high level that this 
team is on," Peters said. "It is 
intimidating to play with a team 
that is so good." 
Nevertheless, Peters still ex­
udes a confidence that is rooted 
in the experience of taking on 
the best in the collegiate volley­
ball world. 
"It has been fun working with 
the people on the team," Peters 
added. "I'm still in a preseason 
mode, but hopefully it'll come 
around in time." 







The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paid positions: 
Illustrators Daily Cartoonist Weekly Political Cartoonis 
Contact Garrett Gray@ x1786 for more information. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, August 28, 1995 

Induction 


College football shrine attracts fans 
continued from page 1 
' '
Trophy winner Billy Sims could not attend because of a family emergency. 
Brown took time in his speech to recognize the crowd. 
"I'd like to thank those of you who sat in the sun today," he said. "You are important." 
Robeson's son applauded the Hall of Fame selection commit­tee for its "courage" in honor­ing his father who's outspoken ways earned him scrutiny dur­ing the Joseph McCarthy era. 
"Paul Robeson remains a controversial figure because he challenged the cultural ideals of American n:·~ism," Robeson said of his father, who after his football playing days starred on Broadway in several roles. 
Each honoree took time to thank people who had helped them succeed in the game of life. Singletary thanked his mother and God. 
"I just try to exemplify every­thing a mom taught to a young boy in Houston Texas," he said. "You have to give back." 
Brown humbly offered thanks to two influences in his life. 
"If it weren't for Kenny Mol­loy taking a 13-year-old boy under his wing, I wouldn't be here," Brown said of the retired New York ·supreme Court jus­tice. Brown then paid tribute to Robeson for standing up to the white establishment of the early and mid 20th centuries. 
"Robeson was the most multi-talented person who ever lived," said Brown. He worked for freedom and justice and equality for all people." 
"For those of you who need race as a definition, one of those individuals I mentioned was a white man (Molloy) and one was a black man." 
Martin, who was a four year starter of the Frank Leahy coached teams of 1946-49, when Notre Dame went 36-0-2 and won three national titles, was a. crowd favorite who said that the honor was the culmi­nation of years of hard work. 
"I had to wait 45 years for this, but that's OK," he said. 
The South Bend Tribune, Mike Norbut and Tim Sherman contributed to this report. ' 
·My Fashion Secret? · Goodwill. 
Who sa1d that morder to look good you had to spend a lot of money? Goodwill carries all the Brand Name clothing you like,but without the brand new prices.We have the same large, 
quality selection of clothing that you would find in the 
mall. .. but at a price that will keep you coming 
back, looking good, 
and impressing friends. So, the next time you need a particular outfit, or you're just looking for something different, give us a try. You'll find there's something for everyone at Goodwill. 

The Observer/Mike Aula Visitors at the College Football Hall of Fame enjoy playing with the tackling dummy. 
Like the Movies? Are You Motivaed & Friendly? Need Some Extra Cash? 
for floor staffpositions. Shifts 1i6 and 6-12 available. 
Benefits Include: •Free movies •Above minimum wage pay 
Apply in person after Zpm at Mo[ft ©tiD®[ill[J inside U.P. Mall. 

'>''@\+genel:ti,J, a~tending a seti.ID. is a passive tlvity: watching films ips, looking at statues, ading what the expertsWhile the College Jl· Hall ·of· Fame ·has its e Qf these opportu;ni~ · pre~>ence ofexhibits ~or . . . p~rticipa-' ipg .Jt nic~ly. sphwe on ·· jn "The 
I;1eW' 1~ tlu~ 
~ can test y9ur mu$ig. and passing ... he Kicking·(;ame" on ll,n Astroturf field 
fofvecy. narrow goal ri:Qg' you in the face 
ee kicks which with to prove yourself. Three possible point~ )ler kick allows you to score anine. 
Right next door is the "Jt.iinnillg Game". This mini­obsW,(}le course requires high· ~tapping, a straight-arm. and ~itli~g a blocking dummy. Th~re are three different blbckfug dummiel) that are set 
BAPTIST STUDENT UNION 
up according to weigh'!;. But 
with the smallest being for 
those under lSO lbs;, the little 
tykeswho are most enthralled 
by this often do not have the 
strength to do much in terms 
of drive blocking, • 
In fact,· one ·little girl gath· 
ered afull head o!steam three times ill hopes of mowng the Reggie White-like sled only t9 give··up to. cries o( ":that · bu:riSl" .· . • t~r:; 
Rigllt ~er thi& is "T~e Pass~ 
ing G!llll~". Consistillg of t1ll'ee 
thJ:ow~ ~oward atarget ten. 
yards away, a maximum of 18 
points. ca.n be a.cerueci. 'I'he 
only problem with this area i$ 
the fact that yo~r throwing at 
wall•. as ·opposed to a· tire o,r 
another similar contraption. 
While "The Practice Field" 
test!> your skills, "The Training 
Center" is more of the off~sea~ 
son varie1;y of testing. 
Measuring vertical leaps and 
testing quickness and agility 
with shuttle runs are just a 
few of the ways you can show 
up your OMt-of-shape friencis. 
··Tim Sherman 


MEETING AT 
CENTER FOR SociAL CONCERNS 
7:00 P.M. MONDAYS 
FOR INFORMATION CONTACT 
LEANN AT 634..:1507 OR REBECCA AT 2 7 7-1363 
COME FIND OUT WHAT WE1RE ALL ABOUT 
• 




-rve 
at The Cove Friday Sept 1 
A benefit for the Charles Martin Youth Center 
Call Coveleski Stadium in South Bend for tickets: 235-9988 Box Seats $25, Reserved Seats $20. Charge by phone. 

Monday, August 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Hall of Fame interesting for all ages Norbut 


By TIM SHERMAN 
Associato Sports Editor 
There arc so many different aspects that go into making col­lege football the great game that it is. Because of this di­versity, it is a part of American life that appeals tu the young and the old. the fanatical die­hard and the casual fan, the strategic specialist and the tail­gating specialist. 
.The recently-opened College Football Hall of Fame in down­town South Bend magnificently highlights the various reasons why college football is Ameri­ca's Saturday aftrenoon past­time while entertaining all types of fans in the process. 
The most impressive part of the llall of Fame is "The Sta­dium Theater", whieh is the site of a 360-degree movie, which is basically Walt Disney World meets ESPN. Sitting in bleaehers, surrounded by music and hard-hitting higlights. it is as close to live action as pos­sible. 
"The movie was great but the teams shown in the higlights were limited,"senior Garrett Gray said. 
For the younger visitors, an exhibit entitled "The Pantheon" is a must-see. It honors the recent gridiron greats by dis­playing the major post-season awards such as the Heisman and Outland Trophies. In addi­tion, jerseys and pictures of this season's stars are showcased. 
For those who revel in the glories of past autumns, there is much to see. From the yel­lowed photographs to scrathcy 
Right about here ... 
old films presenting the exploits of the Four Horsemen and the Galloping Ghost, nostalgia is aplenty. 
The actual inductees of the Hall of Fame are honored in the Hall of Champions. The six rows of engraved plagues are grouped according to decade. 
"I thought that it was laid out pretty well," Gray said. "The members are very easy to see and what school they attended is very clear." 
For the exteme enthusiasts, the display "Great Rivalries" is sure to get the blood pumping a bit faster. Notre Dame/USC, Michigan/Ohio State. and Har­vard/ Yale are just a few tradi­tional tilts that are featured. 
Off-the-field action is another integral ingredient to college football that is presented in the Hall of Fame. One room of the exhibit hall is entitled "Pigskin Pageantry", which showcases things like the bands and tail­gating of college football. 
One interactive display is ba­sically like a jukebox of famous school fight songs ranging from the ubiquitous tunes such as The Notre Dame Victory March and Hail to the Victors to more obscure such as the Wahington 
LaFortune Open House Thursday, August 31 7 pm -10 pn1 

;\ A~TfiON\" TRAVEL. INC 
Americantaf AmericanAirlines•
STUDENT UNION BOARD 


Sponsored by: Student Union Board and Student Activities 
American Airlines Anthony Travel Huddle Society Bank Student Activities -Student Business Boan.l Student Uni<1n Board 
and Lee Swing and Rocky Top. 
Also in the room is a whole wall full of life-size pho­tographs of mascots that is great for picture-taking. The Leprechaun is not featured here, but his uniform is on dis­play. 
Among the other points of in­terest is the "Pursuit of a Dream Sculpture", which is a 43-foot high journey through college football. 
"I thought that was pretty cool," Gray said. "It was very well done. 
"However, it is designed for a football player. Not being a football player, I didn't take as much away." 
On the whole, the Hall of Fame is designed with the lay­man in mind, no matter what the level of knowledge is. A true good time for all. 
We Give Students ABreak! 
-· 


ANY CUT 
R~'
ALL PRODUCTS 
MasterCuts 

University Park Mall 

MasterCuts 
277,3770 family haircutters 
continued from page 1 
An area for actually kicking, running and throwing a foot­ball. Agility and balance tests. Different little activities for kids and their parents to enjoy. 
"This stuff is really neat," ex­claimed seven-year old Mark, who looked like Larry Czonka running through the obstacle course and then hitting a dummy at full speed. 
The youngster certainly looked better than ESPN analyst Lee Corso, who hit the dummy, bounced back and reached to stop the blood oozing out of a gash in his forehead. 
But amidst all the Kiddieland attractions, there is still enough substance to keep the oldest and most knowledgeable fan interested and happy. 
"They played football back in the 1800's?" asked 75-year old Dorothy to her husband as they watched old films. 
"That's when football was football and men were men," answered her husband Frank. "Not like these guys who wear helmets today." 
But regardless of preferences of headgear, everyone agreed with the spacious Stadium Theater, simulating a real foot­ball game. 
The spine-chilling memories of great games and high-living made the commercial aspects tolerable. 
Seeing former Notre Dame quarterback and ESPN analyst Joe Theisman eating a Whopper with Burger King executives was cute instead of aggravating. A high school trumpeter passed out in the noon-day sun, and it was understandable. Funny, but understandable. 
"I can't wait to bring my boys up here to see this fine facility," said Jake Gibbs, Mississippi quarterback from 1958-60. 
Neither can a lot of people. 

------~-----~----­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, August 28, 1995 
•NFL • NBA LABOR 

Cowboys win the lone star battle Stern blames players' 
By KELLEY SHANNON on a 23-yard field goal by Chris until Furrer came in with six 
agent for labor dispute 
ksociated Press Boniol, culminating a 40-yard, seconds left in the third quar­
SAN ANTONIO 

Alundis Brice's interception late in the fourth quarter sparked the Dallas Cowboys past the Houston Oilers 10-0 Saturday night. 
Brice, a rookie cornerback from Mississippi, caught a pass by Will Furrer intended for Chris Sanders on the Oilers' 23­yard line with 2:28 remaining and ran it in for the score. 
Earlier, with 2:16 left to play in the third, Brice caught a long pass by starting Houston quar­terback Chris Chandler also intended for Sanders. 
The Cowboys were using the game to take a look at backup players and to give Dallas starters. a rest. Troy Aikman, Michael Irvin and Emmitt Smith remained on the sidelines the entire game, not even wearing pads. 
·The Cowboys also scored mid­way through the third quarter 11-play drive that included seven carries and a pass recep­tion by top Dallas draft pick Sherman Williams. 
Williams had 26 carries for 45 yards. Gary Brown was the Oilers' leading rusher with 26 yards on seven carries. 
Houston was poised to score early in the fourth after a 33­yard gain on a pass from Furrer to Sanders that moved the Oilers to the Cowboys' 27. 
Five consecutive carries by Rodney Thomas got the Oilers to the 2-yard line. Then a fum­ble by Furrer turned the ball over to the Cowboys as Jim Schwantz made his second fum­ble recovery of the game. 
All week Oilers coach Jeff Fisher said he was having to make up for last week's lost preseason game, which was cancelled because of field prob­lems in the Astrodome. 
Starting quarterback Chan­dler played most of the game 
ter. Chandler completed 11 of 24 pass attempts for 122 yards. Rookie quarterback Steve Me" Nair didn't play. 
Backup Dallas quarterback Jason Garrett hit his first seven passes and completed 9 of 14 for 66 yards. 
The first half was a scoreless affair, though the final two min­utes offered a few fireworks. 
With 1:32 remaining in the half, the Oilers' Todd McNair fumbled on the Houston 39 af­ter catching a pass by Chandler. The Cowboys' Darren Benson recovered on the Houston 41. 
Then, on the Cowboys' next play, Sherman Williams fum­bled and Eddie Robinson re­covered for the Oilers at the Houston 44. 
Dubbed the "Governor's Cup," the game was the final of the preseason for both teams. Alamodome attendance was 52,512. 
•NBA 


Riley and Heat caught in the act 
Asociated Press 
NEW YORK 

Ten days before he informed the New York Knicks he was quitting as coach, Pat Riley was laying the groundwork to be­come coach and part-owner of the Miami Heat, The New York Times reported Friday. 
The newspaper said Riley had presented a memo to the Heat in which he outlined his con­tract demands, including 20 percent ownership of the club. 
The 14-point memo, which the Times said was acknowl­edged by three people familiar with the. case. was discussed during an Aug. 4 hearing in New York on the Knicks' tam­pering charge. 
Unless the teams can settle on compensation -the Knicks are unconditionally seeking one of Miami's two first-round draft picks in 1996 and nearly $3 million -NBA commissioner 
Reviews 
continued from page 16 
through the preseason," said senior Michelle McCarthy. "It's really exciting both for us and for her. She's a great athlete." 
The pace of a volleyball match, however. is very differ­ent from that of soccer. The intensity of the points in volley­ball cannot be compared to the constant action in a soccer match. 
· "Her stamina has been real­ly good. She passed all of our fitness tests. I don't think she'll David Stern may have to decide if the Heat violated league rules by negotiating while Riley still had a year left on his contract. 
The commissioner is expected to take action next week if the teams fail to resolve the matter. Should Stern rule against the Heat, he could issue fines, de­cide compensation and possibly prevent Riley from coaching this season. 
Stern's last significant and punitive ruling on a tampering charge was against the Port­land in 1984. He fined the Trail Blazers $250,000 for having contact with representatives for Hakeem Olajuwon after his sophomore season at the Uni­versity of Houston. 
According to two people familiar with the case, Heat owner Micky Arison testified he had received the unsigned memo from Riley, dated June 5, four days before Riley's final 
have any problems," McCarthy said. 
Peters' former teammates are also confident in her abili­ties. 
"I think that Christy can compete at a high enough level to stay with the team," said sophomore outside hitter Jaime Lee. "From what I've heard, she's doing really well." 
Lee also felt that even though volleyball and soccer aren't too much alike, Peters will not have much of a prob­lem with the physical nature of collegiate soccer. 
"If anything, the heat has af­fected her the most, not the physical stress," Lee said. 
meeting with Madison Square Garden president Dave Checketts and 10 days before he faxed his resignation. 
The Times said the memo in­cludes a request by Riley to se­cure an immediate 10 percent ownership of the t<:Jam and an­other 10 percent over the length of the contract. The memo also details salary re­quests -$15 million over five years, the same amount offered 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Forget about the players. NBA commissioner David Stern is now targeting agent David Falk as the main culprit in the league's labor dispute. 
"He'll stop at nothing," Stern said of Falk. "He is so intent on killing the (labor) deal at all costs, he is trashing his own clients and their negotiations." 
Falk represents Michael Jor­dan and Patrick Ewing, among others, and is a leading propo­nent of disbanding the players associaiion and pursuing an antitrust suit against the league. 
Players are set to vote on Aug. 30 or Sept. 7 on whether the union should continue to represent them in collective bargaining. Results of the secret ballot vote will be announced Sept. 12. 
Friday, an angry Stern blast­ed Falk, saying he is "casting aspersions" on some players who have endorsed the recently proposed labor deal. The com­missioner accused Falk of dis­paraging his own clients and distorting components of the deal. The controversy over the new collective bargaining agreement has divided the players, pitting such superstars as Jordan and Ewing against Karl Malone and John Stockton. 
In comments published in Friday's New York Times, Falk said a number of prominent NBA players who endorsed the deal after it was negotiated Aug. 8 would have been hurt financially if the proposed work rules had been in force when their current contracts were implemented. 
"Every guy who has done an extension with a raise greater than 20 percent would have been pre-empted," Falk said, referring to contract extensions that give players sizable raises. "Almost every guy there would have been pre-empted." 
Under the proposed agree­ment, a veteran with a four-or five-year contract can extend it any time after the third year. getting 20 percent raises. Pre­vious rules have permitted many players to renegotiate their contracts to obtain mul­timillion-dollar "balloon pay­ments" near the end of a con­tract's term. 
Falk said he did not intend to disparage such players as Stockton, one of his clients, or Malone, his Utah Jazz team­mate, and Houston's Clyde Drexler, both of whom have benefited from renegotiated\ contracts with sizable raises. · But he said both players were standing by a deal that would hurt other similarly situated players in the future. 
Drexler will get $9.7 million next season via a one-year ex­tension signed midway through a five-year deal. 
"It's unfortunate people who 
have profited won't stand 
alongside the others united," 
Falk said. 

to Riley by the Knicks -hous-..---------------------------~ 
ing compensation, per diem 
expenses ($300) and other 
demands. 
The Knicks said Wednesday 
they are not close to a settle­
ment with the Heat. 
Arison said through a spokes­
woman he couldn't comment. 
When asked in June if he would 
consider selling part of the 
team to Riley. Arison said he 
was prepared to go "to great .lengths" to get him. 
"Also, there's a difference be­tween the sports that she'll have to adapt to, because vol­leyball is more anaerobic and soccer more aerobic." 
Her new coach feels that Peters can make a successful transition. 
"She strikes the ball very well," said women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli. "Her height is also an advantage in going after balls in the air." 
Peters has also fit in well with the chemistry of the soccer squad. 
"Christy really gets along well with our team," said Mc­Carthy. "It's like she's been here with us for a long time." 
great scores... 
@8 
Kaplan helps you focus your test prep study where you need it most. We'll show you the proven skills and test­taking techniques that help you get a higher score. 

great skills... 
Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep 
tools available. From videos to software to virtual 
reality practice tests with computerized analysis to 
great teachers who really care, nobody offers you 
more ways to practice. 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST GMAT, LSAT &GRE classes forming this week! 
get a higher score 




KAPLAN 
~ VARSITY SHOP....., NOTRE DAME JOYCE ACC SECOND FLOOR  ~ nautica.  Ibw~ RALPH LAuREN CJ1JTT~--A ~T &BUCK  

CONCOURSE 

...youn new fall look.

631·8560 

Monday, August 28, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
w.......  
\mf>qlrlE....  
ON£  


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
\ 

" 

I ~ 
Iii' 
!l 
l 
l 
f 


~--------------~ 
DILBERT 
EVERYBODY IN Et-.\GINEE.RING U5ES THIS PROGRAM I WROTE.. I Tf.\INK r'\ARK­ETINC, 5\-\0ULD \URN IT 
S 
~ 
~ 
~ 
I­

INTO A PRODUCT ~ 
u 


) --------"' 
·;; E 
w 
f i 
II) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Defeat 1 Word before "of decisively health" or "of 34 Eggs directors" 36lt marches on 6 Adroit 37 Bar seat 
10 Notion 39 Nasty, as a 14 See eye to eye comment 15 Lamb's nom de 40 -of a kind 
plume 41 Caesar and 
1& Netting 
Vicious, e.g. 17 Makes a good 
42 Radarangestart 

maker 20 Understand 
43 Attempt to win 21 Mr. Onassis 

approval22 Celebrity 
47 Enemy23 Bearing 48 Lasses' mates 

24Common Market money 
49 Blueprint 25lsolated 53 Letter before omega
32 Peter and Paul, e.g., but not 54 Jiang Qing's Mary husband 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ----r--r-o-.---.----.~--. ~*=~E-t:=:+:~ 
-=-t:'::':t':'-E-1 
~:+;:-+:::-+.:=.+::-fl!ll 

SCOTT ADAMS 
~~============~~,or---------------------, 
THAT'S IRRELEVANT ~ BECAUSE T\-\E TARGET 
f"\ARKET WOULD BE 
ENGINEERS. 
57 Trying hard 60 Sicilian spouter &1 Intend &2 Architectural 
style &3 Light for 
serenaders &4 Terrier type &5 Parisian river 
DOWN 
1 Catches, as 
game 2 S-shaped curve 3 Jovial Johnson 
4 Legal matter 
5 Holds in custody &Emulate 
Webster 7 Inventor Whitney 8 Evergreens 
9 Not gross 1 o Stain 11 Conked out, as 
a battery 12 Conoco 
competitor 13 "Pardon me . . . " 18 Oka River city 
.;::.,w....:-=-Et==-t::'-Ei 19 Unspoken 238og ~±-Et::-fl!!~ 25 "Beetle Bailey" pooch t-=t77t:::-. ~!"Et=-+~~ liilr.":+.::t:-i 2& Taking advantage of -=+:::+.-:t:-i 27 Not as wild -=-+:=+-:c-+=-:-+:-:-+~-:-t 28 "The Road Not Taken" poet ....:....L::..L.::~=..~.-=-...L::;..J 29 Besides 
1t THAT WERE TRUE. WE'D BE. SITTING IN A CAVE IR'l'lNG TO DECIDE. IF 
ROCKS 1\RE --------. EDIBLE 
YOU KNOW, '<OU COULD
) 

KEEP RECIPES ON Tl-\IS. 

30 Like the 11 :00 news, usually 31 Gulf of Riga tributary 35 Call it-(stop working) 37 Pistols, swords, etc. 38 N.F.L. scores 39 Sound equipment 41 Sleep loudly 42 More than devotees 

44 Kabul native 45 Type of skiing 4& Boss Tweed 
nemesis 49Carpe­50 Division word 51-time 
(never) 

52 Earth inheritors, with "the" 54 The south of France 55 Forthwith 56 Folklore villain 58 Remunerate 59 Cry's partner 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
1995John 


"Bernice? Glenda Pratner up in 27-B. Hey, take a look out your dining room window and see if my air conditioner is hanging nearby and try to haul it inside." 

..,.....•. ' ···. . 
•MENU 
. Notre Dame 
%~ 

-···North Polish Sausage Sandwich Shrimp Poppers Cod in Salsa 
StMary's 

Call 284-5400 for the dinner menu. 
South Chicken Fajita Rice Pilaf Poached Sole 

Have something to say? Use 
The Observer 
classifieds 
.. 

*PICK UP YOUR FOOTBALL TICKET APPLICATIONS AT THE .JACC TICKET OFFICE TODAY!!!!!! *PRELIMINARY PHONE DIRECTORIES CAN BE PICKED UP IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE-2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE *FINAL DIRECTORIES WILL BE READY MID-OCTOBER AND CAN ALSO BE PICKED UP IN THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE 
• 


i r: SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, August 28, 1995 

• WoMEN's SoccER 

Pulling the 


Switch 
A volleyball All-American a year ago, Christy Peters is now testing her skills on the soccer field 
By JOE VILUNSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 

When Christy Peters fires the ball into the net this season, Irish fans no longer.have reason to be disappointed. 
This change in reaction is explained by the volleyball All-American's decision to maximize her five years of NCAA eligibility and join the women's soccer team during her first year in graduate school. 
''I'm going to pursue graduate school, and figured I might as well play soccer while I'm doing it," Peters said. 
This transition, a testament to her athleti­cism, was sparked by a variety of factors. 
In high school, Peters also played soccer and attracted the attention of some college scouts. However, there was no doubt that volleyball would be the primary focus of her un­dergraduate career. 
"The scholarships to play soccer weren't nearly as good as the ones offered to me in vol­leyball," Peters added. 
During her freshman year at Notre Dame, Peters also practiced with the soccer team in the spring where she caught the eye of head women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli. 
Everything came full circle when graduate school became a possibility and Petrucelli men­tioned something to volleyball coach Debbie Brown about Peters joining the team. 
"I knew graduate school would be a good opportunity and things fell into place from there," Peters said. 
Peters will only be an asset to an already soild women's soccer team that is ranked No. 2 in the nation by Soccer America. 

Peters drawing solid reviews 
"Her experience in varsity athletics will help us down the road," Petrucelli said. 

from coach and teammates
The experience he speaks of includes numer­ous individual awards and MVP honors in By DAVE TREACY
seven of the 11 tournaments the volleyball Sports Writer
team entered in the past two years. 
However. change tends to always create some difficulty. It has been no different in the case of Peters. 
"So far it's been kind of tough," Peters noted. "Volleyball was always very familiar to me, but its going to take some time for me to get a han­dle on soccer." 
Some of that difficulty lies in the differences between the type of conditioning each sport requires. 
"Soccer involes a lot more aerobic activity," Peters said who has had to make the alteration from an indoor to an outdoor sport. 
"Her biggest adjustment has been changing 
see PETERS I page 11 

By Mike Norbut Sports Editor 
You never can tell when Lou Holtz is really happy. The Notre Dame football head coach was pleased overall after Saturday's final preseason scrimmage, but went on to pinpoint every area where the team needs improve­ment. 
"We're just not as sharp as what we really need to be," Holtz complained after the scrimmage. "We're not a great
• 
football team by any stretch of the imagination, but you can't really tell when you practice
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

against yourself."
With Charlie Stafford (81) out due to a shoulder injury, Scott Sollman 
(83) will see more playing time. Contributing to the lack of 
In Notre Dame's inaugural season in the Big East, they will bring in players with big-game experience and tremendous tal­ent. However, not all of these women have demonstrated their prowess on the soccer field. 
Former Irish volleyball All­American Christy Peters will be a rookie in the Irish scheme. Coming back to compete in col­lege athletics for a fifth year, she is determined to prove her athleticism in an entirely new 

Final scrimmage for banged up 
Irish leaves questions for Holtz 
1~ 9;9,5 1.-A::I:S;tt 

arena. With the NCAA's rule allowing athletes to compete for four years in one sport and an additional one in another. Pe­ters has been given the oppor­tunity to play Irish soccer. 
Having played volleyball for Notre Dame, the talent, drive, and determination of Peters is undoubted. But the question remains, can she keep up with the pace of the preseason top­ranked Irish squad and con­tribute? 
"Christy has been playing with us since the middle of spring drills last year, and all 
see REVIEWS I page 14 

F 
,,,_._r_>a--i"'!i_''A __L··_-_
·A_--_--____ ' ____ ,, _ I?_!• ~II be.out indefinitely after hit­
~; 'i ·• ---,. -__ • Ja tmg his head on the ground 
sharpness 1; the ~~e~~ii{cr,e~~-' after what Holtz described as, 
ing injury list. which saw a few "just t~ipping and falling." That 
additions over the weekend. most likely means fellow sopho-
Senior receiver Charlie more Allen Rossum will get the Stafford suffered a shoulder injury and may miss this week-
see Holtz I page 10 
end's opener against Northwestern. 
"They (doctors) say he'll be back for Purdue. he says he'll be back this week," Holtz said. "I'm not going to make predic­tions." 
If Stafford can't go, Emmett Mosley and Scott Sollmann will share the receiving duties with senior Derrick Mayes. 
Cornerback Ivory Covington 

!I Football 
,_ • Piazza leads Dodgers over Phillies 
vs. Northwestern 


Women's Soccer 
see page 11
September 2, 1:30 EST 

vs. Providence September 2, 10 a.m. vs. St. John's September 3, Noon 

Volleyball 

• Knicks-Heat feud continues 
vs. Northwestern September 1, 8 p.m.

I , 
vs. USC September 2, 8 p.m. 

Cross Country see page 14 at Ohio State September 15 

Men's Soccer 

• Ohio State dismantles Boston College vs. DePaul September 3, 2 p.m. 
see page 10 










