
Wednesday, April26, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 128 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION Officers, budget top 01eeting discussion 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
News Writer 
As the school year comes to a close, tho Graduate Student Union focused the attention of their meeting, held last night, on determining the budget and appointing new oflicers for the next school year. 
As incoming GSU president replacing Ed Wingonbach, Joe Manak resided over the meet­ing and presented his version of the budget for debate and approval. Aecording to Manak, the budget was similar to last year's with only a few modifications. 
These modifications included a salary increase for the offi­cers and GSU secretary, an increase for the social commit­tee, and a small increase in the travel fund. The budget was approved unanimously. 
Manak then moved on to the nominations for chairpersons of the various committees, which were each also approved unanimously. 
The approved chairpersons include Tammy Dukewich for the Travel Grant Committee, Ed Wingenbach for the Intellectual Life Committee, Rob de Haan for the Orientation Chairperson and Parliamentarian/ Elections, Credentials and Procedure Chair, Deborah Coombs for the Women's Resource Committee, and Jeff Squyres for the Office of University Community repre­sentative. Beth Caniglia will also continue as vice-president. 
Cable installation makes Haggar 'student-friendly' 
By MAUREEN KOBZA 
News Writer 
Cable has finally been in­stalled on the Saint Mary's campus. Students can now watch their favorite cable ehannels in the Haggar College Center. 
According to Georgeanna Hosenbush. director of Student Activities, cable was installed for "students to better utilize llaggar." 
"The cable is going to help make Haggar more student friendly," Hosenbush added. 
Usage of the student center was an idea promoted on the Board of Governance Haggar Henovation Survey issued to students in October of 1994. The students responded favor­ably when the surveys were dispersed, according to Rosen­bush. 
"''m really excited about the cable because there will be more than three channels," freshman Meredith Johnson said. "Also, I can get to bed earlier the nights Melrose Place is on instead of waiting up until 
1:30 a.m.," she added. 
Freshman Megan Driscoll said she is also happy about the cable installation. ''I'm at Hag­gar a lot at night so it will be fun to stop in the Game Room and watch television and socialize," Driscoll said. 
"It's a step in the right direc­tion for our student center," said sophomore Charity Bocan. "They wanted to attract more students to Haggar and with 
see CABLE I page 6 


Space Shuttle memories 

ND grad speaks on recent flight, Russian venture 
ByTOMMORAN 
News Writer 
Detailing his rendezvous with the Russian space sta­tion Mir, astronaut Jim Wetherbee, who commanded the shuttle Discovery, spoke yesterday to a student audi­ence about his most recent space shuttle mission. 
During the mission, which took place in February, the shuttle did not actually dock with Mir, but came within 10 meters of the station in preparation for an actual docking planned for June, according to Wetherbee, a 1974 graduate of Notre Dame. 
"The primary purpose of 
see LECTURE I page 4 

The Observer/ Jen Rezelli Jim Wetherbee addresses the question of human space exploration versus exploration by robotics. 
Exploration key if U.S. is to compete 
By MELISSA HARRAKA 
News Writer 
The continuation of human space exploration is essential if America wants to remain a first-rate nation, according to United States astronaut and University of Notre Dame graduate Jim Wetherbee, who spoke at a press conference yesterday during a return visit to the University. 
During his press conference, Wetherbee addressed the issue of human space explo­ration versus space observa­tion by terrestrial robotics. Many scientists and researchers feel that human space exploration is ineffective and costly, and that redirect­ing the spending on space exploration from human involvement to robotics would be more practical, especially with the recent cutbacks to spending on space explo­ration. Wetherbee disagreed, citing several invaluable bene­fits of sending humans into space. 

One such benefit of sending humans into space is to repair equipment and prevent failure of robotics. Wetherbee point­ed out that when technology is sent alone, it has to be per­fectly programmed, and humans have proved to be very helpful in cases where robotics have been faulty. 
According to Wetherbee, sending humans into space also serves to increase the speed of technological improvement. Space explo­ration constantly requires 
technological advancement, the results of which are extremely valuable in various realms of society. 
For example, when astro­nauts are sent into space, their health conditions must be monitored very closely. The telemetry used to assess the medical conditions of astronauts in the space shut­tles is currently used on reser­vations in the treatment of Native Americans who cannot get to hospitals for medical attention. 
Telemetry is also giving way to the biomedical revolution of nano-miniaturization, accord­ing to Wetherbee. Nano­miniaturization foreshadows the development of microscop­
see HUMANS I page 4 



Ribbons worn in honor of bombing victims 

• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Bombing reveals 
U.S. as 'vulnerable' 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE at least 96 people, including Assistant News Editor fourteen children, should show Americans that we are 
The U.S. is vulnerable to not immune to terrorism. terrorist attacks, including Despite the fact that the those from forces within its U.S. is "geographically isolat­own borders, according to ed," Americans should real" members of the Notre Dame ize that "terrorism isn't nee· academic community who essarily coming from external spoke in response to what the forces," according to has been labeled "the dead· Assistant Professor of liest bombing in U.S. history." Government Patricia Davis, a 
When asked if the bombing member of the J<roc Institute of the Alfred P. Murrah for International Peace Federal Building in Oklahoma Studies. City is proof that America can Even though the U.S. is a be hit in the Heartland, country that has, as 
·Professor of Government Mainwaring says, "experi­Scott Mainwaring responded, enced very little terrorism" "The simple answer is yes." 
The bombing, which killed see BOMBING I page 6 
By ROBERT DVORCHAK 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 
President Clinton wore one. So did Billy Graham. They adorn the protective gear of rescuers, the badges of cops and the camouflage fatigues of military guards. 
You see them flying from buildings, doors, lamp posts, 
• see TV PLOTS, page 7 
statues, trees, shrubs, car an­tennas and truck bumpers. Fu­neral homes have been deluged with requests for them at graveyards. 
They are ribbons of purple, yellow, blue, white, green and, of course, black, for the victims of the bombing of the federal building. 
"We felt there needed to be an outward symbol of caring and compassion," said Diane Sizemore, the immediate past president of Downtown Now, a 150-member civic group in Ok­lahoma City. 

"Not everybody can write a check, or remove rubble, or do volunteer work. But everybody can wear a ribbon," said Ms. Sizemore, whose organization tied 18,000 strips of cloth in the first four days after the calami­ty. 
The ribbons seemed to simply appear the day of the blast. Then Downtown Now, church­es, floral shops, craft stores, schools and hobby shops joined the movement. Downtown Now coordinated the campaign with the governor's and mayor's offices. 
The ribbon-wearing, which has spread internationally, re­calls the yellow ribbons that ap­peared when Americans were held hostage by Iranian revolu­tionaries in 1980. Yellow rib­bons also flew for the military serving in the Gulf War in 1991. 
The colors have special meaning: purple for compas­sion and the courage of the children; yellow for those still missing; green for prayers for the victims; blue for the state flag of Oklahoma; white for the innocence of the victims; and black for mourning. 
People are wearing them in all sorts of sizes and combina­tions. 
"The response has been over­whelming. It's oue way for us to rally around our city," said Mayor Hon Norick, wearing a purple ribbon at a news confer­ence Tuesday. 
Melissa Slagle, a social work­er and Red Cross counselor, said the symbol is important ­just as the practice Oklahomans have adopted of driving with their headlights on, as if in one unending funeral procession. 
"The picture of trauma is one of helplessness and hopeless­ness. If you can wear a ribbon or turn on their lights, you can take back some control," Slagle said. "It helps you feel a part of the community." 
~--------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 25, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Can we prepare for the unexpected? 
You never think it will happen to you. Many of us go through our shel­tered little lives thinking the Big One won't hap­pen to us. But it almost always does. 
One week ago it hap­pened to the people in Oklahoma City. I heard about it at lunch from a friend whose day begins ________ at noon and had already turned on a TV. It wasn't until late afternoon that I saw it for myself. 
For the people of Oklahoma City, it has "hit home," and the rest of us watch on television just as we watched the World Trade Center, Hurricane Andrew, the California fires, the Challenger, and Pan Am Flight 103. Aside from those who experienced any of these events first-hand, we sat in the family room watching in silence as technology brought these disasters into our homes. 

We never expect it; we never expect any­thing with such magnitude to come so close to touching our lives. Then, on a warm spring morning or a cool October evening something happens or is caused that seems to stop time. Nothing else matters for the moment. Class? I'll get the notes. Homework? I'll stay up late. Sleep? I'll catch up tomorrow afternoon. Dinner? I'm not hungry. 
Once the initial shock leaves, once the cleanup and the coping begins, time jump starts. That was last week already? You mean it's been a month? That's when we again start to think "It won't happen to me." 

But not this time, not for me, at least. I'm as ready as I can be for something to happen. Sure, there's no way to be totally prepared for an event of such magnitude, but I'm at least conscious of what can happen. I figure it's the least, and probably the most, I can do to be somewhat prepared for my life-altering expe­rience when it comes around. 
What would I have done if I were walking down 5th Street last Wednesday? Would I have been as alert as Charles Porter whose Pulitzer-Prize caliber photographs made just about every front page in America the next day? What if I had been in downtown Manhattan two years ago? Would I have been ready to help? Even last Tuesday, every time I passed by a window I checked the sky for a descending funnel since Storm Team 16 had warned us of a Tornado Watch. Would I have been ready then? Questions such as these do not run through my mind often, but they pop up with the help of a little spark every now and then. It's a spark for me; for many other people it's an inferno. 
Each of these events seems to be getting 
closer. In February 1993, I took a fifteen 
minute drive and looked across Sandy Hook 

Bay at the Manhattan skyline. Everything was 
so quiet with lights flickering from where I 

stood but with so much commotion still going 
on. In January, one of my friends' sisters was 
in Japan. though far from Kobe, up in Tokyo, I 
would learn. Just over spring break, I met 
someone from Oklahoma. I had never met 

anyone from Oklahoma before. If I hadn't met 
Brian, last week's events might seem a little 
farther away. 
So, now I'm left to wonder when my unex­
pected event will come. Where will I be and 

how much will it affect me? There's no way to 
tell, so now I'll just go on with my life while 
waiting for the unexpected to happen. I'll be 
expecting it, and I'll still be surprised. But 
somehow I know I won't be ready. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Gwendolyn Norgle Margee Husemann Deborah Schulrz Meaghan Smith Sports Production Tim Sherman Heather Grieshop Graphics Susan Marx Chris Mullins 
Lab Tech Brandon Candura 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 
Unabomber strikes again; blast kills lobbyist 
SACRAMENTO ~~----===-~--~~~ ty. Twenty-three people have been 
The Unabomber may have struck injured in the blasts. again, this time killing a timber indus­FBI investigators say the try executive who lobbied to have the Unabomber, so called because his 
spotted owl removed from the endan­early targets were people connected to gered species list. universities and airlines, appears to 
A heavy shoe box-sized package, be fascinated with wood. Some of his meticulously wrapped, arrived by mail bomb parts were carved out of wood, Monday at the California Forestry one victim was named Wood and Association office. The package explod­twigs have been included in a bomb. ed when association president Gilbert The forestry association. lobbies on Murray tried to open it, blowing out behalf of wood products companies the windows and doors and scattering and timber owners. In 1993, it filed a glass and ceiling tiles on the floor. petition seeking to remove the north­
Murray, 47, was killed in the recep­ern spotted owl from the federal tion area. Five others in the one-story endangered species list. The package brick office building were not hurt. wrapped in brown paper was not 
"The similarities in the forensics pre­addressed to Murray; authorities 

liminarily reviewed at the crime scene strongly suggest the Unabomber," FBI Special Agent Richard Ross said Monday night after the federal Unabom task force took over the case. Ed Gleba, a spokesman for the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, said today there were no new develop­ments in the case. 
Before Monday, the Unabomber was believed to have carried out 15 bombings over 17 years. No one in U.S. history has set off as many bombs over as long a period of time. Murray would be the Unabomber's third fatali-AP wouldn't say to whom it was sent. 
The bomb "was an extremely clean­ly wrapped package, almost flawlessly wrapped. It appeared to have no seams. It was clearly addressed," said Dan DiMiglio, a spokesman for the U.S. Postal Service. 
No warning was sent and no one claimed responsibili­ty, said Sacramento police spokesman Michael Heenan. Police Chief Arturo Venegas said there was no indication the bombing was connected to last week's blast at the Oklahoma City federal building. 
Clinton lays down roots in Iowa 

AMES, Iowa 
President Clinton, hoping to ward off Democratic re-election opposition in this key campaign state, staged a national rural conference today and vowed to protect small farms from zealous budget-cutters. "I don't believe we ought to destroy the farm support program if we want to keep the family farm," Clinton said, sur­

rounded by farmers, academics, business leaders and residents of rural America. Convening the gathering at Iowa State University. Clinton also called for continued funding of agriculture research programs and urged con­ference participants to consider the broader problems of rural America, even off the farm, and to "reward the good values that reside there." The event was designed to focus on problems and success stories outside America's big cities, with Clinton outlining the principles his administration will follow in crafting the 1996 five­year farm bill. But the underlying reason for the trip was politics. Iowa holds the nation's first test of strength in the string of primaries and caucuses next year, and Clinton's trip was one of a series he will make. 
Government compares cult to enemy 
TOKYO 
Japan's top security official said Tuesday the huge police investigation of a doomsday cult suspected in the nerve gas attack on Tokyo's subways was like a war, and vowed to win it quickly. The cult came under further attack from disgruntled individuals. Two days after the fatal stabbing of a senior cult leader in Tokyo, police on Tuesday seized a sword-wielding man at a cult office in Kyoto, in western Japan. There were no reports of injuries. Hiromu Nonaka, a Cabinet minister who chairs the National Public Safety Commission, provided the gov­ernment's most severe description yet of Aum Shinri Kyo, a quasi-Buddhist sect that predicts the world will end in 1997. His comments could indicate the government is readying a major new move against the group. "My feel­ing now is that it's like a battle between two countries," Nonaka said. 

Australia to host Ethnic conference 
SYDNEY, Australia 
Serbs, Croats and Muslims battle in the Balkans. Hutus and Tutsis slaughter each other in Rwanda. German skinheads attack Turkish and Vietnamese immigrants. Political, racial and religious strife flare around the world in 1995, designated as the International Year for Tolerance. In this climate, the United Nations holds the first ever Global Cultural Diversity Conference, a $1.5 million event mostly subsidized by federal and state governments. The conference opens Wednesday in Sydney. Dominating the agenda will be the fundamental question: How can humans get along better? Conference organizers say there will be no final manifesto, no list of solutions, no recommendations. What there will be is discussion. Among the issues to be examined will be migrant movement, the media's impact on tolerance, welfare and health care in multiethnic populations. lan­guage barriers and indigenous people's rights. Australia. where 200 ethnic groups comprise a population of 17.8 million. stands as a model of experience. "Ours is surely among the most successful multicultural societies in the world," said Prime Minister Paul Keating, who opens the conference. 
Dow reinstated as defendant 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. 
A federal judge reinstated Dow Chemical as a defen­dant in thousands of breast implant lawsuits Tuesday, raising the possibility of new negotiations in a landmark product liability settlement. Attorneys for the women say the ruling by U.S. District Judge Sam Pointer could force Dow Chemical to the bargaining table. Manufacturers already have agreed to pay more than $4 billion to women who say implants harmed them. Pointer reversed a December 1993 decision that Dow Chemical should be dismissed from the cases because it had no direct knowledge of implants made by Dow Corning Inc., a joint venture of Dow Chemical and Corning Inc. The judge ruled that new evidence could lead jurors to believe Dow Chemical was aware Dow Corning was using its silicone research dating to 1948 in the manufacture of implants. 
Wednesday, April 26 



The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon. Wednesday, April26. 
Pf'99!1Uffl ~ 
H L m &"SJ [TI] 0 ~EJ~ ~u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VJa~fldPrea 
Atlanta  77  48  
Baltimore  76  44  
Boston  60  44  
Chicago  54  49  
Columbus  64  50  

Dallas  67  52  New Orleans 77  61  
Denver  60  25  New York  68  50  
Los Angeles  74  57  Philadelphia  75  48  
Miami  83  74  Phoenix  92  63  
Minneapolis  49  35  St. Louis  59  49  

Wednesday, April 25, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Women encouraged to pursue mathematics 
There is also statistical evi­Cooney: Female dence that in fifth or sixth grade, girls' self-esteem dropsstudents lack dramatically, and they become less assertive in the class-roommotivation, interest environment. The boys, who 
demand more attention, receive By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI it from their teachers. Saint Mary's News Editor However, as a women's col­
lege, Saint Mary's offers women 
Many female students have an opportunity to excel in what assumed that they were simply is traditionally considered a not good at mathematics, and man's field -mathematics. left numbers to those who were Sr. Miriam Cooney, professor -namely, male students. But it of mathematics, says that has been shown in numerous "classroom attention is often reports on gender and mathe­the measure of worth; without matics that if a girl does suc­attention, there is little encour­Clled in mathematics, it is be­agement to succeed." cause she has worked hard. If The result of these patterns of she fails, it is because she has behavior is that women are of­no natural inclination. ten not encouraged to pursue 

Dr. Don Balka, a math professor at Saint Mary's, is caught in the action of teaching calculus. 
mathematics, show little inter­est in it, and are content to re­main "mathematically chal­lenged." 
According to Cooney, "it's been shown in several studies that in the middle grades, girls loose their voice. Teachers spend two-thirds of their time paying attention to boys. Girls are given the short end of the stick." 
Cooney explained that there are four internal motivational beliefs: confidence, usefulness, sex-role congruency, and attri­butional style. After seventh grade, math becomes more problem-solving oriented and less dependent upon memo­rization. Girls have more trou­ble with problem-solving than boys at this stage, and because teachers pay less attention to them, girls quickly lose confi­dence in their ability to do math. 
Girls are also unaware of the importance of mathematics. Cooney said, "teachers take a lot of time to convince boys of the importance of mathematics, to show them its importance. Teachers do not show girls that it is important. Since it is not useful, they are not eager to learn it." 
One Saint Mary's student en­rolled in Finite Math 104, who asked to remain anonymous, claimed she did not grasp the importance of probability and statistics: "I just do not see why this is as important as simple algebra or consumer math. I am never going to use probabil­ity in real life." A male in this situation would likely accept its importance and learn it, according to Cooney. 
Mathematics is definitely a male-dominated field, and very few women are held up as role models for women studying mathematics. Women are rarely encouraged in the math­ematics field, Cooney said. "Prior to World War II, 14% of 

The Kellogg institute and The Institute foJ• Scholarship in the Liberal Arts 
An I ntcrnational Symposium 
Political Justice and the Transition to Democracy: Redressing Human Rights Violations m New Democracies 
Friday, April 28, 1995 1:15-5:30 p.m. Court Room, Notre Dame Law School 
J"anol I (1:1~-2:15) "Risks and Benefits or EntpO\\'Criny lhC CC\UI1S: Tensions 10 t.hc Ar~CI11111C T•·tmsition" Cni'IC'I!! Acur\a. Center ror Stat~ ond SOCIC~1Y Sllldics. Buenos ,b, ires. Argent &nil 
"Ftghun,c Pc.,liuc~al 1\mn~sties: Th~ Case o( Br.u:r.il" Pnulo Ser(liO Pinheiro. Center for lh!! Stull~ of Non·violcn<"'!· Siio Puulo. l:lrazil 
P~tncl 11 (2:J0-~:45) "The Unsettled Slory or Pf,filu.:nl Ju~IICC In Chile" Joq,~:e Co1Tcn. Diego Pl111:llc~ Univcrsily Snnlia~;o. Chil1.• 
"Prosecuting East (icnnnnr'.s Former DictAtor!'" 
A. Jltme.s l\1cAdnms. J<c:llol:t' Jnstl\ulc, Univenoity of Nolrc \)ami! 
Pnncl Ill (4:15-5:30) Commentaries in Compnr:.uivc Perspective 
"/\.South Afl'icnn Pcrspcc•iYc" Etienne Mure•nik, Universlly of \Vitwu1.er~nu1J. Sou•h .!\[nco 
"A Brv.iliun l'l.!rspeclive" Oscar Vieira. Columbu1 UniYersny. USA. and University of Silo Pt;ulo, l:lrazil 
all doctorates in math were awarded to women, and you never hear of these women and their work." 
According to Cooney, "Women are often not given credit for being mathematically proficient. If a woman does suc­ceed, it is because of hard work, not natural talent, while if a male succeeds it is because he is talented. If he fails, he did not work hard enough. 
"It is a mathematical double standard," she said. 
Women and men learn dif­ferently. Men learn competi­tively, by pushing each other with their internal desire to ex­cel, to be the best. Women flourish in a cooperative envi­ronment. In a male-dominated field such as math, classes are taught in a way in which men can do well, while women are forced to act in an environment which is not conducive to their success. As a result of all these factors, very few women go into mathematics. They are not given an equal opportunity to succeed, according to Cooney. 
Saint Mary's offers women an atmosphere in which students do not have to struggle against the prejudice against women doing math. "It's one thing to know about it and another to change. But knowing about it helps bring about change. When we've been conditioned to think a certain way, it's hard to change," Cooney said. 
However, this change poses a threat to the status quo, according to Cooney, who con­tinued: "But women don't want to take over, we just want to be equal." 
Professor Mary Caputti, who teaches several Women's Studies classes at Saint Mary's, said that "there are good peo­ple in math here, and the train­ing and experience of profes­sors is an issue regardless of the student make-up in a class­room. There is a very good environment at Saint Mary's to think differently about women's capabilities in all areas." 
Saint Mary's math classes, while open to students from Notre Dame -male and female, are usually all women. In this atmosphere, according to Saint Mary's senior Beth Go, "it seems as if women are more willing to participate in class, even if they may be wrong." These single-sex classes en­courage female participation which is imperative to success­fullearning." 
According to Cooney, "Saint Mary's pays very close atten­tion to promising math stu­dents. All incoming freshman are placed at the appropriate level in order to encourage their growth in mathematics. By carefully going through high school records and placing competent students in the right classes, such as calculus, we open a door for science and math." 
Saint Mary's also has many women on the math faculty who provide role models for women in math classes. 
"Very often, a university will have several very competent and respected female instruc­tors, but you just never hear about them. By having a large female faculty, there are role models teaching the classes," Cooney said. Promising math majors are also monitored very closely so that they do receive encouragement. Cooney states that, "When you've been condi­tioned to think you're not good at something, it takes a world of encouragement to open up." 
Go, who will attend Oregon State University next fall to study algebra and topology said that "an all-women's college is helpful. Men and women learn differently. In our own envi­ronments, some women learn better." 
Go stated that the amount of support for women in mathe­matics at Saint Mary's is ex­tremely helpful. "Women do tend to operate on feelings, which makes us good at other subjects," she said. "But there are some women who are very logical and who do have the skills for math and science and do need to be encouraged, and a lot of the time they aren't." 
Go hopes to teach eventually after doing research in gradu­ate school. ''I'd like to help stu­dents enjoy math. A lot of peo­ple are turned off by math, male and female. Even if you're not that gifted you can enjoy it and see that it's useful if you have good teachers." 
By offering women an envi­ronment that supports women in mathematics, Saint Mary's encourages students and gives them support to excel in a field in which there is little encour­agement. As a result, women such as Beth Go can excel in a specific and unconventional field, and can, in turn help oth­ers. 
Are you graduating and want to get rid of college items? Are you moving off campus and need extra furniture? Are you looking for additional supplies to fill your dorm? 
BE A PART OF THE RUMMAGE SALE!! AP~Ct:S fU!RNrrlJft~ CAR.PETS 
SOFAS H~~\~H~~ LOfTS 
DROP OFF~;~;boCENTER~~ 
SALE: APRIL 30 jAcrioN IEJE 11 :00-5:00 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
$1 from each sale made as well as all items not sold will be donated to a charitable organization to be named later. 

-~~-~·-~--------------··-·-··~·------· 
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 25, 1995 
Hu01ans 
continued from page 1 
ic transmitters which will be placed in the body to monitor vital signs and alert doctors and/or hospitals in the case of medical emergency. 
Wetherbee conceded that without NASA's lead in techno­logical improvements, these advances probably would evolve eventually. "But they will come faster if we keep hu­mans in space," he added. 
Another benefit of human s"pace exploration that Wether­bee cited is its effect on young Americans and their education. Wetherbee, who visits schools around the nation to talk about his experiences, said he finds that kids are motivated by the prospect of space exploration. "Kids are enticed to stay in school and are excited about science, " Wetherbee said. 


Lecture 
continued from page 1 
the mission was to insure that the procedures were going to be acceptable (for the June mission.) We worked out some of the bugs and got the two agencies talking," stated Wetherbee. 
The mission, he explained, was not without its problems. A shuttle maneuvering jet began to leak fuel and was ren­dered inoperative. Although the remaining jets and fuel were enough to ensure the shuttle's safety, the Russians were concerned that the leak­ing fuel could damage the more sensitive parts of the station during the close rendezvous. 
Eventually, all parties in­volved decided it was an ac­ceptable risk, and the ren­dezvous went as planned. Wetherbee said that the mis­sion paved the way for a suc­cessful docking in June, and that the only question remain­ing now is "whether or not the docking equipment will work properly." 
In addition to the meeting with Mir, the shuttle also car­ried aloft 23 different scientific and medical experiments, Wetherbee said. These in­cluded "Charlotte," a new robot c"apable of performing different tasks in zero gravity. The as­tronauts also launched and re­trieved a satellite and per­formed several spacewalks. 

Wetherbee also sees many political advantages of human involvement in studying space, as nations can pursue a com­mon goal through space explo­ration. He found the coopera­tion between the American and Russian space programs in his last mission very promising. 
"Some people were afraid of involvement with the Russians, but working with them was far better than working without them or against them," Wetherbee stated. 
According to Wetherbee, many businesses in Houston are following NASA's lead and expanding their markets to in­clude international con­sumers. Thus NASA has pro­vided important examples of successful international rela­tions. 
Wetherbee also addressed the competitive aspect of space exploration. He noted that the Japanese will go into space 
The spacewalks were meant to test methods and devices to be used in the construction of space-station Alpha, the per­manent space station that will be constructed beginning in 1997. 
The mission was also notable as Wetherbee's crew included Lieut. Col. Eileen Collins, the first woman to pilot a NASA spaceship; and Col. Vladimir Titov of the Russian Air Force, the second Russian to fly on a shuttle. Wetherbee praised Titov, calling him "a professional cosmonaut" as well as "a great guy." 
This mission was an impor­tant one in terms of interna­tional cooperation, he stated. The Americans got to visit Rus­sian space facilities and learned a lot about their space hardware. The mission helped prepare for future U.S.-Russian cooperation in space, including not just the Mir-space shuttle docking but also space station Alpha. The station will be a product of international coop­eration, especially between Russia and the United States. 
"A joint program" in space, Wetherbee said, "will benefit both of us." 
This was Wetherbee's third 
trip into space, and his second 
command. In 1990, his first 
mission, he carried into space 
with him the University's 1925 
Laetare medal. The medal had 
been awarded to Notre Dame 
professor Albert Zahm, who pi­
oneered early theories of 
manned flight. 



Transfer Orientation 1995 
All interested in staffing the 1995 Orientation Weekend will be meeting 
Wednesday night at 5:00 p.m. Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune Student Center 
All Students encouraged to participate 
Questions-call Mike at 4-4332 or Heather at 4-2580 
"with or without us." If Amer­ica stops sending humans into space, Wetherbee believes we will become a second-rate na­tion, as Japan will be far more powerful technologically. 
"Human space exploration helps make the country survive. It will improve technology and medicine, it will make the econ­omy and the standard of living better, and students will study more. It will make the world a better place for future genera­tions," he said. 

Wetherbee studied aerospace engineering at Notre Dame. After graduating in 1974, he joined the Navy, and then went on to the Naval test-pilot school in 1981. In 1984, he became an astronaut candidate, and was selected in 1985. 
The first Notre Dame gradu­ate in space, Wetherbee has participated in several land­mark missions. The most re­cent of these missions was in February when, under his command, the NASA space shuttle Discovery flew within 10 meters of the Russian Mir space shuttle, bringing the two largest space vehicles in lower­space orbit closer than ever. 

America's 
Favorite 
WHO DONE IT? 100% Audience Participation Show 
WIN CASH PRIZES T-SHIRTS SQUIRT GUNS 
Don't Miss All The Fun And Excitement 

A MURDER IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN ... 
Sponsored by: Flip Side, SADD & SUB LaFortune Ballroom-April 29, 10:00 p.m. Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk $5 for all ND/SMC students Call John (4-1410) or Mary (4-4904) w/any questions 
JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 





APRIL 26--APRIL 26--APRIL 26 
WEDNESDAY 
\ 
I 

~· 

Senior 

One night only!! Become a member of the Alumni-Senior Club Pay $10 now and no cover for a year!! Come out and have a good time 
< 
r---------------~--------~~--~------------. 
Wednesday, April 25, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
War codes have moral roots 
By PATRICK BELTON 
News Writer 
Chivalric attitudes have al­lowed nations to add rules to international law that govern war, according to Professor 
Robert Rodes of the Notre Dame Law School. 
lie de­scribed this body of law yesterday in a lecture spon­


sored by the Rodes Kroc Institute fur International Peace Studies. 
"If you see an enemy soldier taking a shower, you don't shoot him," Hodes said. "There are no international cops." The authority of war codes is thus strictly moral, he said. 
In the past year, international 
Recycle The Observer! 
MARY ~MERI •Owner 
:lpp(Jinlmenls 1oai/a6fe 

law has come under attack from members of the Critical Legal Studies movement. This group argues that treaties such as the Geneva and Hague Codes actually promote war by desig­nating some war acts as legal. 
Rodes disagreed, however. 
"These authors overlook the didactic role of law: if it didn't have moral force behind it, people wouldn't look to it for justification," he said. 
By outlawing such war atroci­ties as civilian bombings, rape, and civilian killings, like those of the My Lai massacre, the makers of international law "make sure the unspeakable and unthinkable are spoken and thought," according to Rodes. 
While the Critical Legal Stud­ies movement contends that laws only reinforce the hege­mony of the ruling class and do not embody a transcendent moral order, Rodes called law "a reflection of practice in light of moral principles." Laws that embody a community's moral principles help members of the community make morally in­formed decisions quickly, ac­cording to Rodes. 
Besides, he said, war is not fought only to promote the in­terests of a nation or a class but rather "for aims like free­dom, religion, God, country, Notre Dame." 
Rodes predicted that warfare will become more clandestine after the end of the Cold War and Desert Storm. Interna­tional law will be redefined to give a different scope to the United Nations, he said. 
Professor Rodes has been at Notre Dame since 1956. He is a faculty fellow and the author of several books. 
The Observer/ Sherer 

Professor Raimo Vayrynen speaks on "Economy, Crisis, Adjustment, and the European Community." 
page 5 

• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 

New representatives chosen for Senate 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
Deborah Hellmuth, Tim Kerr and Matt Karr were elected last night from the Hall Presidents' Council to represent the HPC in the Student Senate for 1995­96. 
Hellmuth was the top vote­getter among the three sopho­mores. The Pasquerilla East resident received 33 votes, fol­lowed by Kerr. from Dillon Hall, with 22 votes. Karr, from Stanford Hall, received 15. 
HPC co-chair Kristin Beary was confident that the trio 
,;:;Scholastic Magazine recently won highest honors in a national critique of col­lege newspapers and maga~ zincs conducted by the Columbia National Press Association. Scholastic received the "Medalist" award, the highest possible 
or; 
he critique was based on an· evaluation of the maga~ zine's content, presentation and general operations. The magazine scored strongest 
jnthe areas of depth report­, ' ··;'>features and overall ept. 
holastic is an excellent:*ews magazine,'' wrote one :; ~valu~~:tor; ,."It has the attrib· >utes of a professional publi­
cation, yet it handles its role 
of 'inspiring. thought, con­
versation and debate' in the 
Notr~ Dame community." 
., e articles and underly­.tesem-cb, which was evi" · , e~t 'Were outstanding," he
' .· . . Jl~_g.. :. ,,, .-.~:~-~~:ifj¥;:::~~ . '.··_,.·.. ":)jf~ ,. ·· ··.eek at the ln4f 
would represent the council well. 
"They seem really excited," she said, "and willing to take the time to do a good job." 
Each council member had two votes to use among four candidates, with the top three vote-getters winning the posi­tions in the Senate. 
Among their responsibilities, the representatives report the news from the Senate meetings to the IIPC, a duty that will probably be rotated among the three of them, according to Matt Schlatter, co-chair of the council. 
Term limit bill passes 
in New 

Hampshire 
By PAUL TOLME 
Associated Press 
CONCORD, N.H. 

The New Hampshire House voted Tuesday to send career politicians packing by limiting the terms of the state's mem­bers of Congress. 
The bill was sent by a 203­148 vote to Gov. Steve Merrill, who says he will sign it. The state Senate passed it unani­mously earlier. 
Twenty-two other states al­ready have set limits on con­gressional terms. New Hamp­shire's bill won't become effective unless a total of 25 states adopt term limits. 
While other states have passed term limit measures by 

voter referendums, Merrill's signature would make New 
>· ...·· .. · !~~ft~~~:~~~~~c , 
Hampshire the first to do it 
·;Jitllolastl~ teceived the ~~~· 
through the Legislature. An 
,~()nat honor of "best maga~ 
effort to put the issue before





ATTENTION 
•ztne:Jn Indiana>!• 
voters failed two years ago. 
:.··:::;.;>< ·-~Aw-41f,~·~:fx.···. :­

SOPHOMORES! 
ORDERS MAY NOW BE PLACED 

EFRCIENCY AND 1BEDROOM
FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS 

APAKMNT AVAIUBll 
Mar-Main Arms Apartments 
125 WEST MARION STREET (219) 233 -2098 
Upcoming Events 

1 'I \ i I ' I I I' II ' 

Lecture 
REV. MALUSI MPUMLWANA 
Director, Institute for Pastoral Studies Grahamstown, South Africa 
Orders may be placed in the Ring Office Monday April 24th through Wednesday May 3rd 
SOUTH AFRICA: 
from 9am-12pm and lpm-4:30pm 

FOUNDATIONS FOR PEACE 
Thursday, April27, 1995 
12:15 prn
The Hammes 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
University of Notre Dame 


NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"on the campus" 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
Open Monday through Saturday 9 am. -) pm. 
UNNERSI1Y OF NOTRE !2~~----_ 
P.O. BOX 639, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA .f6556-0639 USA 

-~--~~-~-------~-~--~
------. 

page 6 
Bontbing 
continued from page 1 
in comparison to countries in the Mideast and parts of Europe, it can still be affected by this violence. Professor of Government and member of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies Robert Johansen agrees. 
Speaking in reference to the blast of the bomb estimated to h.ave weighed close to five thou­sand pounds, Johansen says that, as Americans, "we are all vulnerable" to terrorism and "acts of great destructiveness." 
Realizing America's vulnera­bility to terrorism, President Clinton recently stated his encouragement of anti-terror­ism legislation which would allow law enforcement agencies "greater freedom to infiltrate foreign and domestic terrorist groups," according to an article in Monday's Chicago Tribune. 
r 
I 
~ 
f 
r I ~ 
r I 
Playing some tunes
f 
I 
Mark Nicholson is caught jammin' at Morrissey Unplugged. 
f 
Clothing & Usable Item Drive 
The St. Vincent De Paul Society 


Clothings, Furniture, 
Appliances, & Other 
Usable Items. 

ALL Residence Halls 
Though Clinton's efforts to prevent terrorist acts from occurring in the United States may serve as a blockade to international groups, the effec­tiveness of these preventive measures against domestic ter­rorists may not be as strong. 
Johansen said that Clinton's aim at better prevention mea­sures "will be helpful," but it is not possible to have "a fool proof security system." 
Mainwaring says that Clinton's push for stricter secu­rity laws may result in "a slight increase in the efficiency" of the government's preventive efforts. However, Mainwaring says, "The bottom line is -it's pretty difficult to prevent," especially when terrorist acts are committed by "well-orga­nized and determined groups." 
Citing such organizations linked to the bombing, Davis sees the bombing as "a sign that we should take the threat from extremist groups serious­ly." 
The Observer/ Jen Rezelfi 


Monday, Monday, Monday,
lSi 
Monday,
@0PUS MNISTRY 
Campus Ministry, & The St.. Vincent De Paul 
May 1 
May 8 
May 15 
May 22 
631-52-U 
Societv. 234-6000 

~-----------..--------. 
The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 25, 1995 
In the investigation of the bombing in Oklahoma City, law enforcement officials are taking into consideration groups involved in other mass killings that have occurred in the U.S. within the past two years. One possible connection between the bombings in Oklahoma City and the bombing of the World Trade Center in New York is that those involved with the Oklahoma City bombing may have seen how the New York bombing was done, and they "were inspired" by it, Mainwaring said, noting the "demonstration effects" of ter­rorist acts. He, also, mentioned the use of "communication through computers" in the ter­rorist acts, and he related the incident at the Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas with the Oklahoma City bombing in that the suspects involved are "militarized groups that are hostile to the government." 
Commenting on the efficiency of law enforcement agencies in the Oklahoma City bombing, Mainwaring considers their efforts as having been "effective in this case." 
Though the hunt for persons responsible for the mass mur­der is progressing, Mainwaring claims that an important ques­tion still remains: "Will this remain an isolated event?" 
Prior to the bombing in Oklahoma City, many Americans may have shared a 




Cable 
continued from page 1 
the installation of cable, they are doing it. I just wish they'd install it in the residence halls," she added. 
Next week the Board of Gov­
ernance will continue its 
efforts to respond to the 
Haggar student survey by 
attempting to redesign the 
interior of the snack bar, 
according to Leslie Field, Notre 
Dame/Saint Mary's Senate rep­
resentative. 

Notte Dmme C~llJlb of North Jersey mnd SARO 
presentThe Area Lu a e Truck 
Neither the Club, its student representatives, nor Quark 
North American Van lines will be responsidle for items not picked up by 2 pm on May 27, 1995. 
l'"'": "I:; 1wr '-..uit,.l,,·, :\ J) B .. ~. l'rintn, l\"~'·,1 ·l.1hk l o~mp 
'-...2l\ !'<'~' l run),, '-..kn·p, Computer, '-..m,1Jl h·i<k<·, f·lonr I .111/f' '-..2:; pn Bikl', \1.-.lium hi,kl', 1\ug, :-. lll pn ll.-.1, l .1rgl' hidg,· 
.-\11 <llhn ill'm' pricl'd h,l,l'd llll r,·l.1ti\L' ,j:l'. 
Student Coordinator: Russ Williams '97 (219) 634-4107 Alumni Coordinator: Doon Wintz '85 (201) 267-3800 (day) 
is a $5 discount per item for students whose parents are paying dues to the Notre Dame Club ofNorth Jersey, Membership sign-up forms will be available at the pick-up on August 20. Membership is $25/year and entitles you to all club mailings and quar­terly newsletters and helps us support summer service projects, student scholarships, various community service activities and much 
Club, Quark North American, and the student coordinators cannot be responsible for lost, damaged, or unclaimed items. Insurance will not be available beyound the standard $60/pound. We do have a large 48 foot professional moving van, but articles be accepted on a space available basis, first come, first served so try to arrive early. If there are any profits from this venture, they will be deposited in the University's scholarship fund. 
sense of security that the U.S. is far enough away from interna­tional terrorism that there is lit­tle if any reason to worry about terrorism at home. 
However, as a result of the bombing, this sense of security has been affected. It has been diminished, according to Mainwaring. 
"We may return to this previ­ous sense of security in one or two years," he said, "or it could go the other way." 
Speaking of this insecurity, Johansen offered what he con­siders to be "one of the most important lessons" learned from the bombing in Oklahoma City: "Our fears can quickly lead us to unfounded and unwarranted judgements on others." 
Citing the immediate assump­tion made by most Americans after the bombing that the ter­rorist act was committed by an international terrorist group, Johansen said that these igno­rant and unjustified assump­tions are not only the results of terrorists acts, but they are also the causes of these acts of vio­lence. 
"Police acts won't be enough" to prevent terrorist acts, he said. "The most important emphasis" the U.S. should make is "to discourage causes and conditions that give rise to terrorism." 
Offering two examples of what he considers to be "the 
PROTECT YOUR CREATIVE PROPERTY! Special student memberships are available .in THE NATIONAL WRITERS LEAGUE 
Safeguard your Ideas, Treatments, Scripts, Books or Manuscripts. For membership information and a free Property Registration Kit, 
CALL (219) 287-5082 
,ll::niC==================::JJit::1! 
underlying causes of terror­ism," Johansen names educa­tion against prejudices and the discouragement of language illustrating hatred as conditions leading to prevention. 
Specifically, Johansen dis­courages words showing hatred of groups of people. In naming a few of these groups that are often targets, Johansen men­tioned "the government. Jews, African Americans, Mexican Americans, and Muslims." Because they have an immense influence on people, Johansen says, talk show hosts and politi­cal leaders should consider carefully the content of their speeches, and they should real­ize the messages they are send­ing to the public. 
This is important, according to Mainwaring, because one aspect defining a terrorist group is that they "have no specific target." Their motives deal with "public issues," and "their target is not linked to a personal quarrel." 
Another measure of preven­tion against domestic terrorism is to examine the "psychologi­cal health of our own citizen­ry," Johansen said. 
"When someone carries this hostility beyond rhetoric," it can lead to a violent action. 
The Associated Press and The Chicago Tribune contributed to this article. 

Wednesday, April 25, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
TV recognizes bomb tragedy 
Soap operas review plots related to killing 
By LYNN ELBER 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

"All My Children" aired a disclaimer and "Melrose Place" is reviewing its season finale out of concern that their bomb­related storylines cut too close to home in the wake of the Ok­lahoma tragedy. 
While cliffhangers and ex­travagant plot twists are com­mon during the May ratings sweeps, used by local stations to set advertising rates, televi­sion is orten criticized for the amount of violence it includes, said Kathryn Montgomery, president of the private Center for Media Education. 
"Now they're kind of caught red-faced, which gives you a glimpse of a problem that's there all the time with TV," Montgomery said. "This forces them to apologize for what they routinely put in their pro­gramming." 
The two-hour May 22 episode of Fox Broadcasting's "Melrose Place" reportedly in­cludes a bombing at the apart­ment complex that is home to its main characters. 
·The attack by a vengeful Kimberly (Marcia Cross) was planned as a series cliflhanger that leaves uncertain who sur­vived. 
On ABC's daytim& serial, a demented Janet Green (played by Robin Mattson) is seen this week plotting to plant a bomb at the wedding of Trevor and Laurel (James Kiberd and Felicity LaFortune). 
Both were written before the deadly April 19 federal building bom~ing in Oklahoma City. The 
Federal building security 
An explosion at the Alfred Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma occured Wednesday causing extensive damage and casualties. The explosion may have been caused by a 1 ,ooo-to 1,200-pound bomb, located outside the building on the north side, the same side as most of the offices. 
Some of the security measures taken In federal buildings around the country: 
• Reinforce columns by wrapping with steel. 
Helps to prevent "pancaking." 
•outdoor parking 
Fox drama's finale was filmed from March 24-April 12, Fox said. 
"We are sensitive to one as­pect in the plot of the 'Melrose Place' season finale because of a single coincidence with those real-life events," Fox and series producer Spelling Television said Tuesday. 
"We are currently discussing the best way to handle this one aspect of the May 22 episode and will make that decision 
cameras in stairwells 
• Hydraulic crash barrier at delivery checkpoint. Arrivals and departures recorded. 

over the next week," the state­ment said. 
A Fox spokesman said the network would not detail the options under review. Re­shooting the episode seems un­likely, since filming is over for the year and the actors have scattered. 
On "All My Children," the decision was. made to air a dis­claimer Monday and before each episode dealing with the wedding bomb. 
NEWLY REMODELED 
• 
NEW CARPETS 

•
NEW TILE FLOORS 

•
COMPLETE REPAINTING OF EVERY UNIT 


AND MUCH MORE! 

ADVANTAGES WE OFFER 
•
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

•
WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY APARTMENT 

•
DISHWASHER 

•
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

•
ADT SECURITY SYSTEMS • 24-HOUR MAINTENANCE 


~NOW OFFERING SOME FURNISIIED UNITS~ UNITS STILL AVAILABLE 
Serbs ask U.N. to ban civili-an use of airport 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
Crippled by a critical fuel shortage, the United Nations signaled Tuesday that it may give in to Serb demands to ban civilian use of the front-line Sarajevo airport. 
U.N. officials a day ahead of Wednesday's scheduled airport talks expressed little hope they could avoid further restricting use of Sarajevo's lifeline to the outside world. 
It's likely the Serbs will be less than cooperative Wednes­day with the United Nations because a U.N. tribunal in The Hague on Monday named Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and his military com­mander, Gen. Ratko Mladic, as war crimes suspects. 
Karadzic, who has yet to comment on the tribunal's an­nouncement, met Tuesday with Patriarch Pavle, the head of the Serbian Orthodox Church. 
Pavle has criticized Serbia President Slobodan Milosevic for cutting ties to his proteges in Bosnia in hopes of forcing them to accept an international peace plan that would cost the Serb rebels one-third of their territorial gains since war broke out three years ago. 
He indirectly urged Bosnian Serbs to fight on, telling them: "It is better to die than to be­tray our soul." 
Karadzic, while claiming he was committed to peace, indi­cated he would, arguing that God would want it that way. 
"We are making efforts to make the war stop as soon as possible and that it stops with­out a winner or loser," Karadzic said, but added: "We think it is our duty to defend ourselves." 
"Everything else would not please God and would not be in keeping with our Orthodox tra­dition,'' he said. "Our people endure and the one who en­dures wins." 
U.N. officials in Bosnia on Monday expressed concern that the tribunal's move could lead to further retaliation against peacekeepers and tightened restrictions on aid deliveries. 
Following several successful offensives by government forces in recent weeks, Serbs have increasingly squeezed Sarajevo. Seven people were wounded in the city Tuesday, including five bus passengers targeted by snipers. One per­son was wounded by small­arms fire on Serb-held territo­ry near the city, hospital and 
U.N. officials said. 
Serb refusal to give security guarantees to planes carrying civilians has caused suspension of all aid flights to the besieged capital. 
Serbs have long been an­gered that select Bosnian pass­port holders, including gov­ernment leaders leaving for talks abroad, are allowed on 
U.N. flights. 
The 1992 airport agreement, under which the Serbs gave the United Nations control of the airport, lists three cate­gories of passengers or cargo: humanitarian aid and U.N. supplies; United Nations or European Union related mis­sions and "official missions." 
Bosnian Serb officials are demanding that the U.N. abide by the letter of the agreement and refuse to fly other civilians. 
"We have been using the air­port agreement liberally," U.N. spokesman Alexander Ivanko conceded. 
Such talk hints at an immi­nent reversal of the United Na­tions' long standing position to resist attempts by Bosnian Serbs to dictate who may fly. 
U.N. 
officials expressed un­happiness with the drift toward restricting civilians. But they explained the decision was linked more to the U.N. need to guarantee fuel for operations in Sarajevo. 

U.N. 
fuel supplies are criti­cally low and could run out within a week. 


Serbs denied security guarantees for all U.N. fuel convoys planned Tuesday. 
r-
Engagement Rings 7~ 
10%-15% OFF! ,'W 
Officwl Wholesale Price list! 
S.A. Peck & C(J. 

55 E. mtshington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Frtt 32-Pagt Color CQ/a/t>g , Toll-Free (800) 922-009G FA;.: (312) 977-0248 J'i"ttmet CtJtaiog aJ blip: l/www.stlfHck.com/sa/Ht:k 
1995 
"THE INTERNATIONAL CONDITION OF WOMEN" 
Women from South Africa, Brazil, and Mexico will share their experiences, followed by discussion. 
TODAY, APRIL 26th 7:30pm Center for Social Concerns 
Sponsored by Amnesty International & Women's Resource Center 
page 8 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 26, 1995 

WEDNESDAY APRIL 26 AT 9P.M. ROCKY HORROR PICTURE SHOW. COME r)ANc::E AND SING WITH THE TRANSVESTITES. BC)NFiRE AND FOOD PROVIDED, B.Y.O.BLANKET. 







THURSDAY 
3P.M. TO 9P.M.-ALPHA EXPERIENCE 

ON THE LIBRARY GREEN. 4P.M. TO 7P.M -TYE DYE, FAKE TATTOOS, 
JELLO PJTS, VOLLEYBAlL, TWISTER, AND VARlOuS HALL EVENTS~ OON•T MISS THE DJ Al\JD PRIZES!! ALL ON LIBRARY GREEN. 
4:30 TO 6P.M.-SUCNIC. TICKETS FOR NO STUDENTS AT LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. GOOD FOOD AND FUN ON LIBRARY GREEN. 
7P.M. TO BP.M... COME WIN A DATE AT 

THE DATING GAME. RAiN SJTE -HAGGAR PARLOR. 7P.M. TO MIDNIGHT-HOLY CROSS BLOCK PARTY FEATURING THE BANDS SHADY ELAINE, BIG EARL, AND LITTLE MILTON. ALL ON THt:: MADELEVA LAWN FACING THE SMC 





NOTHING BEATS A SNUGGLY PAIR OF TIGHTY WHITEYS 
.. QUEST FOR THE CROWN REI 

FREE PIZZA 11ELIVERIES TO RANI10M ROADAPPLES @6 &ALLIGATOR G AT TilE FIELDHOUSE MALL 

CHARITY CONCE 
9PM IN LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 


FREE FOOD 


...MOSAIC OR NETSCAPE HOMEPAGE ADDRESS: http:/ /www.nd.edu/ antostal
S1liDINT UNI~ IOAID 

4PM AT STONEHENGE HUMOR ARTISTS, IRISH ACCENT, ENTRY 77 
BEAT THE CLOCK: BIG PRIZES JUST WAITING TO BE WON, 
LIKE $50 GIFT CERTIFICATES TO MISH. BREWERY 
,. 
Wednesday, April 25, 1995 
Navy investigation reveals harassment 
Instructors and others found guilty ofcharges 
By ERNEST SANDER 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
After a seven-month investi­gation, four instructors at the Naval Training Center have been convicted of sexually ha­rassing female students, while others were found guilty of lesser charges, the Navy said Tuesday. 
The announcement brings to named in the center investiga­tion, only one, Joel Hernandez, was convicted in a court-mar­tial. A punitive letter will be put in his lile, he will be fined $1,000 and, most significantly, he now has a federal criminal conviction on his record. 
Nine others had administra­tive, non-court hearings and received punishments ranging from pay dockings to counsel­ing and punitive letters. 
Charges were dropped against one person. 
All four instructors found guilty of sexual harassment have between six and 20 years in the service. None are still teaching at the school or any­where else in the Navy, Denni­son said. 
In addition to sexual harass­ment, charges included inde­cent language, indecent assault, fraternization, mal­treatment and dereliction of duty. The latter charges were for not pursuing abuse com­plaints. 
The Navy has declined to dis­cuss the nature of the harass­ment at the center, but most of it is believed to be verbal. 
The investigation began in early September when a woman mentioned to a senior chief petty officer that she and another student had been ha­rassed. 
It was complicated by the fact that many of the 16 women had moved to other countries and several had left the Navy. 
The center, on the federal government's base closure list, is slated to cease operation in mid-1997. 
--------------------------------------~-------------------------·------~------~ 
The Observer • NEWS page 9 
The Observer/ Jen Rezelli 

Singing for Spring 
Shenanigans kept the audience entertained as they perform at their annual Spring Concert. 

Dissident taken from home
a close an examination into claims by 16 female cadets who said they were harassed during training in internal communications at the center iR 1993 and 1994. 
The harassment reopened wounds created by the 1991 Tailhook convention, during which drunken aviators groped and assaulted women at a Las Vegas hotel. 
Since then, the Navy has added sexual harassment hot lines and interaction training programs in an effort to make the service more sensitive to women and gender equality. 
"There is always going to be 5 or 10 percent of the popula­tion that just doesn't get it," cenhlr spokesman Lt. Pat Den­nison said, "but the word is getting out that if you do it (sexually harass someone), you are going to have to pay the consequences." 
or the 11 people originally 
By CHARLENE FU 
Associated Press 

BEIJING 
Plainclothes police took a Chinese dissident from his home in the middle of the night last week, and no word has come since of his whereabouts. 
Shao Jiang, who was a stu­dent leader of the 1989 Tiananmen Square democracy movement, was awakened Fri­day and taken to a police sta­tion in Canton, capital of south China's Guangdong province, the New York-based Human Rights in China said Tuesday. 
Shao's girlfriend, with whom he was staying, also was de­tained. Police told them they were detained because they did not have cards authorizing them to live in Canton. How­ever, the girlfriend was re­leased the next day. But police said there were "other prob­lems" relating to Shao, and there has been no further word on him. 
"What we are worried about is that nobody is admitting that he's been arrested," said dissi­dent Wang Dan. He and two other Beijing dissidents met Tuesday with the Beijing Public Security Bureau to appeal for information about Shao. 
Dissidents in Canton and Shao's parents, who live in the northern city of Tianjin, have asked Canton police and other authorities for information, but the response from all offices has been that "there's no such person here," the human rights group said. 
Shao, a former mathematics student at Beijing University, is a longtime friend of Wang, who was No. 1 on the government's most-wanted of student leaders of the 1989 movement. Like Wang, Shao was arrested after the military crackdown that ended the protests. Although he was never charged or sen­tenced, Shao was not released until 1991, when he went to Canton seeking work. 
"Even though he was impris­oned, unemployed and endured other persecutions and hard­ships, he never gave up his ideal of improving human rights and democracy," the rights group said. 
In March, he joined Wang and other activists in petition­ing the national legislature for guarantees of basic human rights. 

--~------·---------­

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, April 26, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .......... , ....... Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is repotted as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 

Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 

Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 631-7471 Unix observet®boron.helios.nd.edu 
• DESIDERATA 

United support shines light on dark tragedy 
The other day, as I was sitting in my study carrel attempting to get some work done, I hap­pened to look out the window, and I was immediately cap­tured by what I saw. The sun was shining brightly, and this always tends to comfort me. But at the same time, the sky was dark gray and the wind was blowing hard. This juxta­position of extremes had to be one of the most beautiful things I ever saw, and luckily it only lasted a minute, so I was able to return to my work. But lovely as it was to me, there was also something almost ominous about it, and I con­tinued to t h i n k about that strange s i g h t throughout the day. 
I wonder if it is not the same type of phenomenon that caus­es me such disturbance as I write today's column. Although I felt a sense of duty to do so, I didn't really want to write about Oklahoma City. The whole subject really bothers me, and my difficulties dealing with it, I think, are more com­plex than the feelings that many others are experiencing during this time of crisis. Let me explain. 
My first reaction was the 
same as that of most people: 
sorrow. I tried to comprehend 
how the residents of that city 
must feel -especially those 
whose loved ones were in the 
building at the time of the 
explosion -and I knew that 
nothing I have ever experienced could compare to what those people were subjected to. Many who were in the building were children, and I cannot imagine how horrible it would be for a parent to wait as rescue crews attempted to find her child, not knowing whether he was dead or alive. One man in particular evoked my sympathy. Both his parents and his children were killed in the bombing. I know that losing my parents alone would be more than I could deal with. Not being a parent myself, I cannot begin to com­

prehend the grief this poor man is g o i n g through. 
I soon found my sorrow combined with fear as I tried to 
put myself in the place of those individuals who, despite surviv­ing the blast, remained trapped under all the residue. I did not doubt that the rescue teams did their best, but even those who eventually were found had no doubt suffered a psychological trauma that will probably remain with them forever. And again, many victims of the explosion were children. It must have been even worse for them. As I imagined how awful it would be to be trapped like this, my fears were not quelled when my mother informed me that the building I plan to work in next year was temporarily locked up for reasons relating to the bombing. These are not pleasant thoughts. 

Of course, in any tragedy there is a ray of sunlight to be found, and in this case I think it is the way in which people have united to help and support one another. The rescue teams are no doubt risking their lives when they attempt to find sur­vivors in the rubble, but they seem more than able to put even considerations like this aside when a tragedy of this magnitude occurs. Political dif­ferences also appear irrelevant in these times. The President spoke specifically to children about this crisis, and was emphatically supported in this endeavor by both Democrats and Republicans. Even in the microcosm that is the Notre Dame campus, this sense of unity is visible. People gather together to watch the news reports about the bombing, and as they do, they put any differ­ences they have aside, all agreeing on the immeasurable effect this tragedy has had on people across the nation and especially on Oklahoma resi­dents. 
So why, I ask, must people detract from the one thing that makes this tragedy bearable ­national unity -and make it even uglier with barbaric pro­posals of revenge against the wrongdoers? The idea that we simply shoot the bombers almost seems humane and commonplace in comparison with other proposals I have heard in the last few days. I'll spare you the grisly details, but you can probably guess at them; chances are, you have heard some of these torturous recommendations too. 
What bothers me the most 
about this facet of the tragedy 

is that it almost seems that those of us who do not wish agony upon the responsible persons cannot have much sor­row for the victims of the tragedy. This is completely wrong. First of all, it is our compassion for all human beings which allows us to seri­ously lament for the victims and their families and yet avoid hat­ing those responsible for the bombing so intensely that we rally for their death. Second, while it seems backwards to some that all people do not adopt their violent, revengeful tendencies, what seems back­wards to me is that we should take a crisis of such degree and make it even uglier by adding the advocacy of further vio­lence. The unity I have observed will help us to make it through the tragedy and, for those who knew the victims, to grieve in a healthy manner and eventually to go on, always remembering the contributions made by those killed in the 
blast. Why obscure this side of the issue with proposals for fur­ther killing? I have no rational answer, and I suspect that this is the case precisely because none exists. 
My differences with many of my peers, then, is partially what makes it difficult for me to discuss the Oklahoma City tragedy. For here, the juxtapo­sition of opposites is not a pret­ty sight. The beauty of national unity should not have to share the stage with the unsightly portent of savagery. Unlike the sight I witnessed the other day when I looked out the window, this combination is unbecom­ing; even "disgusting" would not seem too strong a word for it. In the context of the terrible bombing of last week, we don't need any more gray clouds. For the healing process to begin, the little sun that exists must be allowed to shine through unobscured. 
Kirsten Dunne is a third-year law student. 
Kirsten Dunne 
• llOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
I [}{)Nf..J4 B. 0., 
I'M NOT5URE HOWMUCH 


50 WHY 6Ul.F
MO!i!E OF 7HAT5eaU&57l?A­I CAN'T T&U YC.V
A1AY8& 17'5 JUST 

AReN'T YOU WAR
TION I CtXIUJMVE TAKeN. fOfJJ6CXJ{} ITRZiS
A5 tu&U-7HAT 

ATtuORI<~ 5YN­
ITtuA5 !JECOMING UNeeAR.­llJ~HOM&. AT
I WA5 fJ15M!~... 

I 
/)/?{}M&.
.AEJte, tA'5TaJR. t/V&9 
CANt!£Ta,tJ,CJ<. 


TONClf?A.1AL-! 
"" 
/ 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"It is better to debate a question without settling it than to settle a question with­out debating it." 
-Joseph Joubert 

r-------------------­
Wednesday, April 26, I995 
page II 
----~­






ACCENT ­
• BOOKS, BOOKS, BOOKS 
Moo U: Get big or get out! 
By LAUREN AIMONETTE 
Accent Literary Critic 

rofessor whose deepest principles place money 
nd consumer goods above all else. A depart­
ent chairman so pure a leftist he has com­pletely forgotten to actually marry his wife of twenty years. A dean whose vision from God convinces him he ought to marry and have six children by artificially induced multiple births. And a hog hired simply to eat and eat and eat. 
Welcome to Moo U. 
In "Moo," her newest novel to hit the bestseller lists, author Jane Smiley creates a fascinating array of eccentric characters displayed against the backdrop of a fictional state university. Using the image of uni­versities as their own little worlds, Smiley uses the college cast to portray almost every facet of American society. 
With its midwestern locale, strong agricultural training tradition, and classrooms filled with "twenty­one blond heads, in rows of five, unrelieved by a sin­gle brunette," Moo U might appear as the last place one might find a bit of diversity. However, this is the wrong assumption. 
Hight from the first page Smiley socks her readers with character after character exhibiting a vast array of interests and placed in a wide variety of situations. Using short three-to four-page chapters, Smiley man­ages to introduce over twenty major characters and plots early. The multiple plots become a clever patch­work of interrelated events illustrating the in­terconnection of the society. Each character revolves on his or her (or even its) own axis. but each of the individuals' problems and plots affect those of anoth­er. 
The novel opens with an introduction to Old Meats, the formerly hallowed hall of agriculture which lies at the exact center of campus. Within this deserted building resides the agreeable Earl Butz, the focus of a research project by Dr. Bo Jones. Obsessed with the study of the hog, .Jones hires the pig Butz to attempt to discover what will happen to Butz if he is allowed to eat at will for all his natural life span. Butz, given free reign to satiate his affinity to consume, cooperates. 
Jones's project becomes the first of several faculty research projects introduced throughout the book. The many plots begin to focus around this plethora of studies which win the grant money needed to keep the university intact. The struggles and relationships resulting from these attempts to create new inventions and establish new theories are all played out in enter­taining and intricate detail. 
Emerging from this tangle is the complicated issue of corporation and political involvement. As the state government pulls back more and more of the all­essential funding of Moo U. and ties between the corporate and collegiate world increase, Professor Lionel Gift's idea that it is the strive for consumption of goods which lies at the root of human's desires begins to seem fairly reasonable. 
But is there a limit to what one should do in this search to fulfill desire? When Professor Gift becomes involved in a corporate proposal to mine a Costa Rican gold deposit which lies beneath one of the last remain­ing stretches of rain forest, he sets off the trigger which upsets the careful appearance of calm at Moo 
U. Suddenly passions explode, voices rise above polite whispering, and pigs run out of buildings. As funding slips out of reach, Moo U. must make a crucial deci­sion on its stand on academic freedom. Like Earl Butz, Moo U. is faced with society's newest challenge: Get big or get out. 
With poignant humor and the clever weaving of sev­eral plots and characters, Smiley produces a wonder­fully entertaining novel which is simply a good read. But the hidden insights and messages she subtly intro­duces raises the novel beyond being just simple enjoy­ment. 
In the "old days," describes one of Smiley's charac­ters, college literally meant "merely a college, a group of colleagues. It made no claims to universality." But the new idea of universality created an institution "shamelessly promising everything to everyone, and charging so much that prospective students tended to believe the promises." With wisdom and wit, Smiley examines the present day conceptions and real­izations of higher education, illustrating its problems 



'IHuHlllllllllllU.l.illiillililllili.u 
A NOVEL BY 

Going one step further, Smiley turns Moo U. and its eccentric community into a microcosm of the modem world. Moo U.'s provost comments, "It had become, more than anything, a vast network of interlocking wishes, some of them modest, some of them impossi­ble, many of them conflicting, many of them complementary." Not only does this describe Moo U., it also describes Smiley's outlook on American society and the very arrangement of her book itself. 
Weathe~i~g the Sto~m 
1. The Celestine Prophecy, James -Redfield ~ ·· Politically Correct Bedtime Stories, James Finn Garner Our Game, John le Carre Moo, Jane Smiley Border Music, Robert J. Waller A Dog's Life, Peter Mayle 
7. 
The Glass Lake, Maeve Binchy 

8. 
The Bridges of Madison County, Robert J. Waller 

9. 
Original Sin, P.O. James 


10.The Fourth Procedure, Stanley Pottinger 
MASS PAPERBACK 
The Chamber, John Grisham Circle of Friends, Maeve Binchy Tom Clancy's Op Center, Tom Clancy Until You, Judith McNaught 'K' Is for Killer, Sue Grafton Daybreak, Belva Plain . f 
7. Murder on the Potomac,' 1~ Ma~aretTruman f 
Angel, Barbara Taylor Bradford tw · The Day After Tomorrow, Allan~ Folsom ~ 
10. Decider, Dick Francis " 
f 
By KATIE BAGLEY 
Accent Literary Critic 
Y
ou are an awkward, overweight guy who can't hold a job. Your wife is so promiscuous that call­ing her an adulteress is a gross under­statement. On her way back from sell­ing your children to a pornographic filmmaker she is killed in a car wreck. What do you do? Well, if you are R.G. Quayle in E. Annie Proulx's "The Shipping News," you move with your aunt and two daughters to Newfoundland. Logical move, right? 
In her Pulitzer Prize-winning best­seller, Proulx follows the transforma­tion of her unlikely hero who returns to his ancestral home to try to create a new life for his family. On the harsh Newfoundland coast Quayle is forced to confront his own personal demons. His first challenge comes when he gets a job at the local newspaper and is assigned to cover car wrecks. 
Gradually, however, he manages to put together a life for himself in which he is not constantly haunted by his wife's memory. He becomes a part of the community; he makes friends, learns about his less-than-noble her­itage, falls in love, and finds a couple of dead bodies (but that's another story). 
Quayle is not the only haunted per­son in the story. It seems as though everyone has their own particular monster in the closet. His eldest daughter. Bunny, suffers from night­mares and delusions that Quayle does not understand and with which he does not know how to cope. His alcoholic aunt cannot forget that her brother, Quayle's father, raped her as a girl. 
In fact, the entire community is wrestling with the difficulties of recon­ciling the traditional lifestyle with the realities of modern development. The fishing industry which has been the economic mainstay of the islanders is undermined and threatened by foreign competition and the islanders live under the constant threat posed by the forces of nature. 

Proulx tells the story in a straightfor­ward fashion, allowing the events to unfold before you. Her style is a little rough, even choppy in places. Sometimes it seems as though she is merely allowing ideas to spill out rather than controlling and polishing them. At times this style is effective because the world she is describing is a harsh and rough one. At other times. it is just a distracting conceit. Still. Proulx has achieved a good balance in her descriptive passages, painting a good picture without getting bogged down in scenic details, and her dia­logue is realistic and compelling. 
Every chapter begins with a descrip­tion of a different knot-the mooring hitch, the Dutch cringle, the strangle knot-which serves as an extremely interesting extended metaphor. Knots are what hold things together and "The Shipping News" is, in the final analysis, about what holds people together. It is about friendship, love, fear, pain. tragedy, and other connections. It is less about individuals than it is about relationships. 
Life is not easy for these Newfies; the water and the weather are constant enemies. In fact, most of the grave­stones in the cemetery are close to­gether because very few people are actually buried in the ground. Drowning victims don't need coffins. The harshness of life requires that peo­ple stick together and help each other out; even if they don't like each other, they must get along. This communal attitude is one of the things that helps Quoyle make a place for himself. Although he makes mistakes, there are people looking out for him. 
The book is a strange mixture of realistic and fantastical elements. The setting is painstakingly accurate and the people are realistic but the events are a blend of the mundane and the incredible. A house blown away by a storm, a gruesome murder. and a dead man sitting up at his own wake are interspersed with Christmas pageants and oil spills. 
Whether or not "The Shipping News" deserves a Pulitzer Prize is a matter for debate. It is a good book but not quite that good, an interesting story but hardly compelling. It has its great moments but it doesn't draw you in and make you care deeply about the characters. Though not a chore to read, it is certainly not a joy, although it improves upon reflection. If you spend any time thinking about the book, you will find things you over­looked while reading it. There is a lot contained within the pages, it just takes a while to find it. 
-
.... 
_... 

page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, April 26, 1995 
-• SoFTBAll Notre Dame, DePaul renew rivalry today with twin bill 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in  Rm available in 3 bedrm home for --VW---JETTA GLI  EUROPE $199 o/w  ATTENTION GRADUATING  
NOTICES  Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a year of service creating community  summer/fall '95. $240 incl. utilities. 16V---VW-­5-min drive. 232-7175 or 631-4809. •1990 •spotless, no rust •white  CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/1 If you can beal these prices start  SENIORS ... Congratulations from Leisure Tours International! Say  
Antostal this week... MOVIES:  with persons who are mentally dis­abled. Responsibilities include: assist In creating a home based on  •sunroof •manual •new sport tires Looking for roommates for Indian •I*******•••••****••••••••••••••••••••••• Springs,3 BDRM, $200-$250/mo. * * * * ***** * •••"'**** ******* * •••••••••••••**  your own damn airline! AIR-TECH LTD. 2121219-7000 info@ aerotech.com  good-bye to Spring Break and hello to ... MARDI GRAS 19961 Party in NEW ORLEANS February 16-21.  
Sneakers  the Gospel; develop relationships  Call Mike@273-6499  This ad will run TODAY ONLY! Call  
Strange Brew  with members; and assist in per­ 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  nowforFREEINFO@  
Star Trek Generations  sonal care and community living.  HOMES FOR RENT  LaFortune Student Center  1-800-838-8206.  
-SUB  Requirements include a desire to  NEAR CAMPUS  vQuick turn around time! !I  
live with, learn from, and relate with  232-2595 •••••••••••••.:jbdougla@indiana.edu  ,J Most orders completed  OINK! OINK!  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  mentally disabled adults. Benefits  >or  within 24 hours  Get 'em while you can!  
Are you going to read those things  Include stipend, room, board, and  **********NOTICE*******•****** <douglass.1 @ nd.edu> or 272­ ,J Free pick-up & delivery  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  health Insurance. To apply, contact  If you are interested in living at 7417.  to & from departments  Adventure. Excitement. A jedi  
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  Dottle Klein, L'Arche, 700 Arlington  Turtle Creek next year, call Chris  v Caii631-COPY  craves not these things.  
Rd., Jacksonville, FL 32211;  at 273-1399 as soon as possible. 86 HONDA PRELUDE Sl  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ (904)725-7740.  red 5spd  Matt:  there she sits buddy just a gleamin'  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util. Must Sell 4-2475  Its been a wonderful year. Thank  in the sun  
"OBSERVER" RATE $501$60,  COUNSELORS WANTED for  624 Park (Historic District)  you!  there to greet a working man when  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ Kwiwanis Twin Lakes Camp located  Grad. Students pref. 232-6079 486 DX-33 tower system with dual  Love, Me  his day is done.  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ in Plymounth, Ind. This is a sum­ floppy, 246 M HD, mouse, SVGA  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  mer camp for physically and men­ Looking for roommates for Turtle monitor, color printer, and more.  GUITARIST needs musicians for  Driving to  
tally handicapped children and  Creek townhouse. $195 mo.+ util. $945 obo. Tom 3253.  band next year-will play Zeppelin,  NJ or Long Island  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  young adults. Most campers are  Call277-9659.  Hendrix, Van Halen, Aerosmith, etc.  after finals?  
GIFTS. 256-6657  age 7 thru 21, but we have lifted the  If you're planning on living off-cam­ Joey x2320  Want some company?  
age limit. The campers are from  2 bedrooms in quiet neighbour­pus next year, we have some furni­ Call Kristen x2339  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from  the Chicago metro area and from all  hood, close to campus. Use of ture you might want to buy.  I ned a ride to EASTERN MASS  
around the world.  over the state of Indiana. We want  kitchen & laundry facilities. Summer We kept it real clean and want to  after graduation. Will split  How long has it been since we have  
GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune  you to have an interest in working  and fall school year. Rent is $250 sell it soon. Call271-1390 if you're  gas/tolls/etc. Please call soon.  gotten hammered on a weekend?  
Student Center, April25-28 Room 108 9am-6pm. ILOST & FOUND I  with disabled children. The camp sessions run from June 11 to August 16 with orientation the week prior . We provide room and board plus $1,000.00. If interested please call the camp's winter office 312­ per month. Call Paul at 232-2794. interested in big desks, shelves, a couch with pull-out bed, lamp FOR SALE I tables, lamps, and more. L.'8_0_T_R-IU-M-PH_T_R_7-Co-n-ve-rt-ib-le-,.....J I TlCKETS  Tom x1712 Thank you. ROADTRIP '95 April21: 5:00pm-"There's no smoking  Too long. I don't even have any good hook-up stories to tease you about. This weekend will fix that though, but only if we can figure out a way to hold on to the cup.  
LOST: Vivltar AF 200 35 mm cam­ 767-CAMP  brown w/ tan interior, great ·  in my car"  WOMEN'S CAMPAIGN 1995  
era at an apartment on Lance Court  cond. Near NO. $4,500 OBO Need a lot of extra graduation tick­ 6:00pm-"I don't know why we  "The International Condition of  
or vicinity during the Shadowlands  Looking for roommate to sublet 2  277-2684. ets. x3711  didn't bring C and D's golf clubs, we  Women," a panel discussion with  
cast party on Fri, April 21. Name  bedroom apt for the summer Call  certainly had the room"  women from South Africa, Brazil,  
and home address on back.  Tom @273-1990  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered I NEED 2 tickets for Graduation  7:00pm-"Can we PLEASE smoke  and Mexico, will take place today,  
Sentimental value; no questions  at $85,900. First floor location. Please call PAUL x3580  in your car?"  at 7:30 pm at the esc.  
asked if returned.  Attention summer school students!  Finished basement with full lavato­ 12:15am-"Hey, check out the  
REWARD. call Sue x1522  Looking for a responsible, fun-lov­ ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on I need graduation tickets. Please  Pamela Anderson calendar"  Boo, just tell me you didn't suck  
....  ing student to babysit my 2 children,  ground level. Lease back to owner call Lisa at 277-07 40  1:30am-"I did not call Indiana-but  that appendage on your hand .  
Silver and Brass Bracelet between  ages 5&7, 2-3 afternoons per week  through May, 1995. Call  here's $5 in case I did"  
Debar! and NOH. Not worth a lot,  2-6pm in my Granger home. Please  (616)946-0700. I Need Graduation Tickets  2:20am-"Oh, she's pregnant with  Will you be at  
just got it in Mexico, so I want it  cell 277-5786.  289-3203 Mike.  my child"  IU-BLOOMINGTON  
backl If found, call Janine -1412  Duplex, perfect for students. 6  3:30am-"Hey, you've got hair duty"  during the 1995-96 schoolyear?  
Employment opportunity with an  blocks from campus. 1 bedrm and 2 For Sale:  4/22  I am looking for a female non-smok­ 
I lOst a book called Revolutionary  Architectural and Engineering firm  bedrm apts. 607 E. Corby, $20,500 2 orre way flights to Ft. Myers Fla.  12:00pm-"Let's go see my sister in  ing roommate.  
Phrases by Lenin. The cover has a  located in historic Lafayette, Indiana  by owner. 616-483-9572 Sat. May 10  Dayton, by way of Columbus"  Margaret 271-1493  
big picture of Lenin's face. If you  for ARCHITECTURAL GRADUATE  $125 each. call277-2488  1:45pm-"Em, can we smoke your  
found It, please call John at 271­ with AutoCAD proficiency and 3  Sturdy LOFT 4sale. call Jeannine at  shoes?"  Why you slimy double-crossing, no  
1390.  months office experience. Resume  x3747. Will take down this week­Need 5 grad tix for brothers and  3:00pm-"Can we smoke in your  good swindler. You've got a lot of  
to H.L. Mohler & Associates, P.C.,  end.$30 sisters. They've been waiting  car?"  guts coming here, after what you  
WANTED  839 Main Street, Lafayette, IN 47901  23 years for this ­PLEASE call very cool LOFT for sale X2533 4-2869. Very desperate  4:00pm-"No CB, it's ba-bah not baa-baa"  pulled.  
5:00pm-"Alex, are you getting off  NDE 4th Day Senior Send Off  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ SUMMER JOBS  Painted loft with shelves 4salel I Need GRADUATION TICKETS  on 315?''  7:30p.m. Wednesday Stanford/  
Seasonal & full-time employment  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  x3806 call ED @ X4204  "I don't even have a boner!"  Keenan Chapel... Come say good­ 
available at National Parks, Forests  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  8:00pm-"I forgot to bring my 101"  bye to the graduating seniors!  
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID  2 ONE-WAY FLIGHTS TO PERSONALFT. MYERS, FL., SAT. 5/10. $125  11 :30pm-"You guys want to play doubles with us?"  HOLY CROSS HALL BLOCK  
N55843  1-800-786-8373  EA. 277-2488.  12:30am-"I'm drinking like it was  PARTY  
000 The Copy Shop 000  mytrabajo"  Featuring: Big Earl  
AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING I EARN BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  FOR RENT  LOFT FOR SALEIII LaFortune Student Center Very tall loft reasonable price WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  1:30am-"I've never hooked up with JM"  Little Milton Shady Elaine  
(CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  Call X 3756 -Becky & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  2:00am-"Blum doggie dogg"  When: April27 (Thurs.) 7-11pm  
ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR­ CONVENIENCE!II  3:00am-"Good thing I locked the  Where: Soulh side Madeleva  
EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ NISHED HOMES NORTH OF NO  EPSON LX-810 printer. Used for Phone 631-COPY  door... RALPH"  rain local: Haggar Terrace  
4398 ext. C1082  IDEAL FOR 3-7 PEOPLE 2773097  1sem. Make offer. Call Janine- 3:45am: "Joe, will you flip them?"  Who: EVERYONE  
1412 ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE  4/23  
SUMMER INTERNSHIPS: VEC­ FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse  12:30pm-·o-you better go get  $1 donation to Mara Fox Scholar­ 
TOR INTERNATIONAL-Accepting  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  For Sale: Student membership happily married for seven years are  some more Resolve"  ship fund  
applications for summer openings  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  (Great rate!) to Pinnacle Megaclub, hoping to share our love with a  2:00pm-"Can we smoke in the car"  
at 2851ocations across the U.S. All  including full use of free weight child. We love the outdoors, have  2:30pm-"I'm being haunted by CB's  RAFFLES!! RAFFLES!! RAFFLES!!  
majors, Freshman-Senior.  Student Apts. in 3-flat, heat includ­ room, aerobics. sauna, jacuzzi, etc. comfortable home and country lake­ leer  
Scholarships available (6 previous  ed. Furnished studio, $230.  Good through summer 1996. Call side cottage. Will provide secure,  3:15pm-"This is a four cylinder-high  Sponsored by Holy Coss Hall  
scholarships awarded to Notre  Furnished 1 bedrm, $265.  Katie X4089 todayl loving home with full time mom.  performance automobile"  Council  
Dame students.) For information  Unfurnished lge 1 bedrm, $330. 755  Counseling and allowable expens­ 4:30pm-"I'm pulling you over  
contact South Bend office at 282­ South Bend Ave.-1 blk. west of NO  89 red Nissan Sentra. Only 44,000 es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800-469­ because you're suppossed to slow  Mo.  
2S57  Ave. Deposit, 1-800-582-9320  miles, Great Condition, Must see. 0559  down when you see us"  We wish you the best of luck in the  
$4000 OBO. Call273 8428  5:15pm-"Eat a fat one"  race this weekend! We're thinking  
HOME FOR FISH-AN OSCAR AND  SUBLET THIS SUMMER!  Lisa & Andrea missed the boatll  of you. 7th floor PE  
SUCKER -FOR SUMMER AND OR  College Park Condo­ 89 red Nlssan Sentra. Only 44,000 Fellow Seniors-We need a booze  •••••• Congratulations Janeen on  
NEXT YEAR-WE'RE GRADUAT­ 2 females neededl  Miles, Great Condition, Must See cruise ticket and fastl X2514-Will  your summer internship! Good  All I ask is that you quit purring and  
ING. CALL 277-1704.  272-1538  $4000 OBO. Call273 8428 pay a handsome ransomll  Luck-you'll do great. -GJ ••••••••••  snorting for these last weeks!! I  

BY NEIL ZENDER 
Sports Writer 
It's not a Conference game. In the MCC standings it counts for nothing. But Notre Dame's 
3:30 doubleheader at DePaul this afternoon is everything. After all, DePaul is a rival. And rivalries are everything. 
"DePaul is always one of our biggest rivals," Coach Liz Miller said. "Ever since we started the softball program it's been a good rivalry. I expect them to be very tough." Miller empha­sized the word very. 
-
The Irish will be hoping that starting pitchers Terri Kobata and Joy Battersby are feeling healthy. Kobata has been bat­tfing a hip flexor that's harder to predict than the weather. Miller always has to deal with 
the question of whether or not Kobata will be able to pitch. "We never know until Terri 
quirky delivery has set a Notre mend. Offensively, Notre Dame will 
Dame record with six saves on "Joy's feeling better. She was need some solid baserunning. the year and pitched shutouts seventy-five percent in last The Irish have suffered mental­in both bills of a doubleheader Friday's game and Saturday a ly on the basepaths. Miller has two weekends ago. lot less than that. The last been drilling heads-up 
Battersby, who has been bat­three days she's been one-hun­baserunning on the practice tling a bad back, is on the dred percent." field, but whether or not it's sunk in won't be apparent until today's game. 
In the batter's box, the Irish will be looking for improvement from Meghan Murray, Elizabeth Perkins, and Kara McMahon who have struggled as of late. 
"They've been out of sync but the last couple of days in prac­tice have helped. They need to step up." 
One thing's for sure, if the top of the order stepped up any far­ther they'd be up there with the American Eagles that actually reach their destination intact. Leadoff hitter Katie Marten and number two batter Jennifer Giampaolo have been hitting the ball like it's a grapefruit. 
"I don't think I'm hitting the ball any different," Marten said. ''I'm probably jsut getting more confident. I've been having more solid hits. At the begin­ning of the season I was getting more infield hits and bloopers." 
warms up. She hasn't really done anything since she pitched last Saturday." 
If the spec­tacular Kobata doesn't play tomorrow, the Irish will bring in freshman relief sensa­tion Kelly The Nichols. The Shortstop Meghan Murray goes to the backhand deep in the hole. righthander and the rest of her Irish teammates travels to DePaul today for two. 
with the 
Battersby's health is bad news for DePaul. She boasts a 
1.54 E.R.A. and has fired three shutouts on the season. She also has the advan­tage of intimidation. Battersby leads Irish pitchers with two hit bats­
Murray 
men. Wednesday, April 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
-



Regular season returns with higher prices 
Replacement umps and lots of hits expected 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
Star players are hobbling, and hitters are ahead of pitchers. The real umpires are missing, for now, and the schedules are messy. 
No, baseball isn't exactly getting off to a clean start in 1995. 
By the time John Burkett throws the first pitch to open the season tonight, it will have been 257 days since the last game that counted, the biggest gap in major league history. 
So what will the crowd at Joe Robbie Stadium for the game between Los Angeles and Florida, the audience watching on ESPN this evening, and the fans that will follow later this week see when the game returns? 
A lot of hitting, probably. A spring training shortened in half to three weeks by the strike has caused prob­lems for pitchers, and the overall exhi­bition EHA is over 5.00. 
Steve Avery, Mike Mussina and Bret Saberhagen were among those hit hard iu their tuneup starts for the regular season. Bob Welch and Ted Higuera wern releasnd in the last couple of days, and 11-year veteran Joe Hesketh retired Monday night after giving three runs in two-thirds of an inning for the New York Yankees. 
"I busted my rear end for two weeks to see how it would go," Hesketh said. "My arm didn't come around the way it was supposed to." 
• fT~~·;y ·:
··~' 
~$''jy ·.··• '. 
.. . 
,_, ...,,·~-~ 
Hesketh was not the only player hav­ing trouble. 
Roger Clemens, Juan Gonzalez and Alan Trammell are among the players already are on the disabled list. Many more have been hobbled by pulled ham­strings and other nagging problems. 
"Every baseball player gets a strain, except maybe Cal Rip ken," Gregg Jefferies said. 
Ripken begins the year having played in 2,009 consecutive games. He's on target to break Lou Gehrig's mark of 2,130 on Sept. 6 in Baltimore. Even in a season chopped to 144 games, cutting out almost any chance of the record chases that made 1994 so special, Ripken's pursuit will draw considerable attention throughout the summer. 
This spring, meanwhile, might see a lot of players challenging umpires. 
The regular umpires have been locked out by owners, and plan to picket, start­ing tonight in Miami. Replacement crews, made up from former major and minor league umpstake their place. 
Ticket prices fluctuate as seven teams raise prices 
By RONALD BLUM AJsociated Pre$$ 
NEW YORK 
Say it ain't so, Yankees. C'mon 
Rockies. What's up Orioles? 
Seven teams raised the cost of an 
average ticket this ~ear, excluding the 
discounts many teams are offering for 
a few weeks to lure back fans after 
the 232·dii.Y strike. 
The average price of a ticket went up 1.8 percent to $10.65 this year, an increase less than the rate of lntlation and the lowest jump this decade. 
The New York Yankees have the highest average ticket pri<;e at $15.01, a jump of 3.9 percent from 1994, according to figures released Monday by Team Marketing Report. The Cincinnati Reds, who didn't change prices, have the lowe$t average at $7.95.· ' 
The Colorado Rockies, who moved from Mile High Stadium to Coors Field. had the largest increase, a 34.2 percent rise to $10.61 from $7.90. The onJY,other double~digit increase was th'e Baltimore Orioles, whose average rose 17.7 percent to $13.14 from $11.17. · 
lnflatiollwas 2..1 percel;lt tn 1994, ~ aeegr<Jiqg to the Consumer Price :tn:deli,;>Onty seven teams increased 
their' avetage ticket price this year. 
.. • ·.< 
The Pan-African Culture Center of The University of Notre Dame Presents: An African Irish American Celebration A multicultural celebration that you must experience to believe. With ... •Trinity, America's number one school of Irish dance •Award winning Irish musicians out of Chicago • Seamaisin, Notre Dame's very own Irish band • Djo-Gbe, a transcultural ancient African dance, with internationally recognized Master African drummers and dancers •The African American Unity Ensemble, affiliated with the American Conservatory of Music, Chicago Vendors of ethnic clothing, books, jewelery, and imports will be selling their wares in outer lob bey of the Hesburgh Library all day Thursday African and Irish Music and Dance Together Again 7:00 PM, April 27th Washington Hall Tickets: Students and Senior Citizen $3.00 advance, $5.00 at the door. General Public $8.00 advance, $10.00 at the door. Tickets available through the Notre Dame Box Office, (2ll)) 631-8128. Reception to follow performance.Free workshops on the Quad of African and Irish Dance as part of An Tosta1, 11 :00 AM -12:00 PM, Thursday. Strive to enter into dialogue and make friends with someone else from a culture with which you have had no previous contact.  

" t 
-

Ron Powlus looks upfield on the roll-out yesterday as the Irish conclud­ed spring practice with a spirited scrimmage. 

a sort ofplay 
by A.R. Gurney A Faculty Recital Featuring Katie Sullivan Mike D. Morris 
Thursday and Friday, May 4 and 5, 8 p.m. Moreau Center/Little Theatre Admission Free 
Saint Ma~'s Colle~ 
Departmem or Communication. NOTRE DAME· INDIANA Dance&Theatre 
"'r\F't f -... 0' t• ' I I .,...,., .. 
Wednesday, April 26, 1995
The Observer • SPORTS down, but it wasn't because which included pass comple­
tions from Powlus to tight endsthey weren't trying. 

Spring 
"We were much more physi­L·eon Wallace and Pete 
cal than I thought we'd be," Chryplewicz. And a couple to acontinued from page 20 
Holtz commented. "But we've guy named Mayes. had very few injuries, which is "We hadn't been tenacious on 
man Jarvis Edison on the No. 1 good. We have to be injury­offense this spring," Holtz said.
defense. 
"But today was the first time
free." Without this burden, the Irish we started being a competitiveBesides Moore's absence, all 
other Irish casualties were tem­have enjoyed the luxury of offensive team." 
porary. Center Dusty Ziegler putting the first team offense It could turn from competitive 
went down with an ankle 
and defense against one anoth­to dominating come Saturday,
sprain Saturday, which will 
er. While the defense kept the however, when the first team
keep him out of Saturday's 
Ron Powlus-run offense from defense and offense team up
game. Sophomore Kinnon 
registering a first down on against the reserves in the
Tatum missed Tuesday's scrim­Saturday, it fell short of that Blue-Gold game. 
mage, but will play this week­"The number ones will playfeat yesterday. 
end. 
The No. 1 offense had back­together Saturday," Holtz con­Luckily for Notre Dame, 
to-hack 65-yard scoring drives, tinued.
though, no other players went 

S'"IAYING ON CAMPlJS THIS SUMMER? 
NFFll) $$$$$$ ? 
**WORK REUNION** 
June 8-11, 1995 
Pick up applications in the 
Alumni Office 20 I Main Building 

Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintoshe easy. So easy, in fact, that the prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower
1\vo thingsyou 
can afford to miss. 
than their already low student prices. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hard your life is for a minute and start thinking about how easy it will bewithaMacintosh.lbecomput-er that gives you the power any 
Macintosh Performa• 6115 w/CD 
8MB RAM/350MB harddrive, CD-ROM drive 
15" color display, keyboard, mouse andall the 'soft­student can use.The power to be wareyou're likely lo need ~ 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. 

your besc Appletl 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 
Productprices, product aiJ(Ji/ahilily and sales W>:r may vmy. ©1995 Apple Computer. Ill~ AH rights reseroed. Apple, the tl{lple Ia M. -tos1J · tosiJ • 
and Mac are trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. All Apple"producls are designed to be'a~ble 10 individuais with 'disability. 7b'K'j~r::,. (u.~:ly), ::rt;;_7'f6:Ilf3o~ ;"'/;8~':Jw~beyour hesl" are regislered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Power Macintosh 
~--------------------------­
Wednesday, April 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
way to once again being con­
• SMC SOFTBALL 
sidered one of the top in the country. 

Poulin 
Belles blast Hornets in opener continued from page 20 "I know I'm real excited that ­
coach Poulin is coming to Notre 
By LORI GADDIS trouncing the Hornets, 9-1. cause, by doubling at the plate ter and will finish out the re­Dame," said sophomore right Sporn Writer Saint Mary's had come to the and scoring two runners in the mainder of the season before wing Tim Harberts. "Thisconclusion as a team that they process. hanging up the skates for the 
shows that the university is
The Saint Mary's softball were going to win the last Freshman Andrea Arena also last time. 
dedicated to winning, and it isteam was raring to go when seven games of the season. came out swinging, hitting 4-4, "It was a difficult decision, definitely a step in the rightthey traveled to Kalamazoo The level of enthusiasm in including 2 singles, 2 doubles but I've always said that I've direction."
College on Tuesday to face the Kalamazoo showed that that and 1 stolen base. Arena was wanted to go out on my terms,"Hornets in a double header. Belles were serious about that. 6-8 for the day. Coach Maggie said Poulin. "I will miss the
From the Belles' intense bat­But the Hornets stopped that Killian was pleased with her Sophomore left wing Terry
guys and the competition, but
ting performance in the first goal in the second game of the team performance in the first Lorenz added, ''I'm happy that
I'm sure this challenge will sat­
inning to the shortstop's bel­double header when the Belles game. he decided to come here. I'm
isfy me very well." 
lowing words of encouragement fell to Kalamazoo, 3-4 in the "Laura doubled in two runs in confident that he will add to her team, one became deftly second game on Tuesday. the top of the first," Killian stat­something to the hockey pro­
Several Irish players praised 
aware that the Belles had come Junior Laura Richter had an ed. I think that helped give her gram that may have been miss­
Rosenthal's decision to bring
to play. impressive first game for the confidence to go out and pitch a ing in past years." Saint Mary's won the first Belles, pitching for five of the tough game. Kalamazoo only back Poulin and are confident 
Since reentering the CCHA in game of the double header, six innings and helping her own got one hit off of her." that the program is well on its 
1992, the Irish have posted a combined record of 29-74-8. Poulin promises to bring the team back to respectability.


AnENTION SUMMER SCHOOLERS!!!! 
"I don't know a whole lot about the players coming back 
Do you want to stay in your dorm and study all summer, OR would 
you like to have a SOCIAL LIFE? To have your name and phone# added to a list that will be posted in Lafortune for all summer school students: 
UJ 
1.) Call Student Government at 1 x 6283 
[I
OR 
·.·.· ... ·. 
~-'<·
x·,;:
ACfiON ::;:::::::: -~' Y.;,: 
. . -:-:-:-:-:-~;/<.}
2.) E-mail us at studegov.l@nd.edu I I[8] 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Simply indicate that you will be here and give us your# by May 3rd.!!! And of course, any other comments or questions about absolutely any topic are always welcome! 

DART 
CLQSEQ SECTIQ~S ASJlE Z;QQ f.M. 412Sl2S 
ACCT  231  04  0416  
ACCT  231  05  0417  
ACCT  231  06  0418  
ACCT  231  07  0419  
ACCT  231  09  0421  
ACCT  231  10  0422  
ACCT  231  12  0404  
ACCT  232  02  0818  
ACCT  371  01  0825  
ACCT  371  03  0827  
ACCT  371  04  0824  
ACCT  372  02  0545  
ACCT  380  02  2879  
ACCT  380  03  3428  
ACCT  380  04  3429  
ACCT  475  01  2932  
ACCT  475  02  0603  
ACCT  476  01  2126  
ACCT  476  03  3133  
AERO  450  01  2925  
AFAM  359  01  3461  
AFAM  384E  01  3462  
AFAM  425  01  3108  
AFAM  455  01  3463  
AFAM  494  01  3466  
AL  211  01  0841  
AL  211  02  0842  
AL  211  04  0844  
AL  211  05  0845  
AL  211  06  0846  
AL  211  10  0850  
AL  211  15  0855  
AL  211  18  0858  
AL  211  19  0859  
AL  211  20  0860  
AL  211  23  0863  
AL  211  24  0864  
AL  211  25  0865  
AL  211  27  0867  
AL  211  28  0868  
AL  211  31  0871  
AMST  264  01  2287  
AMST  314G  01  3876  
AMST  319E  02  3470  
AMST  354H  01  3873  
AMST  367H  01  3471  
AMST  368H  01  3079  
AMST  387H  01  2978  
AMST  398E  01  3474  
AMST  409E  01  3476  
AMST  456H  01  3246  
AMST  457  01  3478  
AMST  478H  01  3480  
AMST  522  01  3483  
ANTH  310  01  3486  
ANTH  329  01  3061  
ANTH  382  01  3491  
ANTH  389  01  3493  
ANTH  390  01  3153  
ANTH  431  01  3495  
ARCH  443  03  0128  
ARCH  543.  01  0889  
ARCH  543  03  0721  
ARCH  543  04  2731  
ARCH  565  01  2756  
ARHI  169  01  0890  

BA  230  03  0944  ECON  410  01  4056  HIST  401  01  3237  PHIL  201  09  1649  
BA  230  05  0946  ECON  421  01  2604  HIST  414A  01  4165  PHIL  201  10  1650  
BA  230  06  0947  ECON  422  01  2603  HIST  455A  01  3642  PHIL  201  12  0810  
BA  363  01  0950  ECON  484  01  3032  HIST  456A  01  3247  PHIL  201  13  0808  
BA  363  02  1151  ECON  485  01  2136  HIST  458  01  3078  PHIL  201  14  0483  
BA  363  04  0951  EE  222T  01  1135  HIST  458A  01  3080  PHIL  201  15  2137  
BA  363  05  0952  EE  224L  02  1141  HIST  461A  01  3644  PHIL  222  01  0649  
BA  363  06  0261  EE  344T  02  1148  HIST  466  01  4170  PHIL  232  01  3940  
BA  391  01  0805  EE  430  01  4264  HIST  474A  01  2979  PHIL  239  01  4208  
BA  391  02  0716  ENGL  200  01  3532  HIST  483A  01  3647  PHIL  239  02  4209  
BA  392  01  2353  ENGL  200  02  3533  HIST  495  16  4172  PHIL  242  01  2261  
BA  392  02  2352  ENGL  200  03  3534  HIST  495  58  4173  PHIL  243  01  3941  
BA  392  04  2350  ENGL  300F  01  2339  liPS  241  02  3205  PHIL  246  01  1652  
BA  490  01  0954  ENGL  301  01  3537  liPS  320  01  2133  PHIL  247  01  3283  
BA  490  02  0953  ENGL  301  02  3538  liPS  410  01  4068  PHIL  248  01  3942  
BA  490  03  0956  ENGL  311  02  0610  liPS  422  01  3763  PHIL  254  01  3943  
BIOS  201L  05  2025  ENGL  319A  01  2937  liPS  561  01  4072  PHIL  261  01  1653  
BIOS  2SOL  01  2848  ENGL  319A  02  2939  LAW  506  02  1383  PHIL  261  02  0531  
BIOS  250L  02  2847  ENGL  320  01  3540  LAW  591A  01  0711  PHIL  261  03  3945  
BIOS  250L  04  2845  ENGL  334  01  3541  LAW  601  01  1398  PHIL  264  01  3946  
BIOS  303  01  0962  ENGL  340  01  3542  LAW  631A  01  1412  PHIL  264  02  3947  
BIOS  304L  02  0965  ENGL  390C  01  4132  LAW  631B  01  1413  PHIL  264  03  4099  
BIOS  304L  03  2239  ENGL  392B  01  3546  LAW  631C  01  1414  PHIL  518  01  3803  
BIOS  344L  01  0967  ENGL  409  01  2567  LAW  6310  01  1415  PHYS  221L  02  1681  
BIOS  401L  02  2836  ENGL  415B  01  3549  LAW  633  01  2990  PHYS  221L  04  2764  
BIOS  420L  01  2827  ENGL  416  01  4080  LAW  679  01  3046  PHYS  221L  05  1682  
BIOS  420L  02  2826  ENGL  416F  01  4081  LAW  695  01  4106  PHYS  221L  07  0294  
CAPP  216  01  2536  ENGL  418  01  2563  LAW  695  02  1420  PHYS  229L  01  1687  
CAPP  303  01  3064  ENGL  418F  01  4083  LAW  695  03  1421  PHYS  421  01  0616  
CAPP  315  01  1012  ENGL  422  01  3555  LAW  695  04  1422  PLS  381  03  1790  
CAPP  331  01  0579  ENGL  427E  01  3556  LAW  695  05  1423  PLS  443  02  2420  
CAPP  361  01  1013  ENGL  428C  01  2561  MARK  231  03  1426  PLS  481  02  0785  
CAPP  368  01  0540  ENGL  433B  01  3349  MARK  231  04  1427  PSY  211A  01  1796  
CAPP  380  01  2533  ENGL  467B  01  3564  MARK  231  05  3441  PSY  341  02  2053  
CAPP  395  01  2530  ENGL  469  01  3566  MARK  231  07  3442  PSY  341  03  2052  
CE  331  01  1017  ENGL  492  01  3571  MARK  350  02  1432  PSY  342  01  1798  
CE  331  02  4257  ENGL  495A  01  3573  MARK  370  01  1433  PSY  342  02  1839  
CHEG  459  02  1039  ENGL  496A  01  3575  MARK  370  02  1434  PSY  355  01  0530  
CHEM  119L  07  3073  ENGL  496E  01  3576  MARK  384  01  1436  PSY  ~57  01  2411  
CHEM  201  01  0291  FIN  231  02  0601  MARK  476  01  1437  PSY  359  01  3919  
CHEM  201  02  0510  FIN  347  01  2872  MARK  476  02  1438  PSY  401  01  3922  
CHEM  201  04  1062  FIN  347  02  2871  MATH  102  01  0466  PSY  454  01  0648  
CHEM  321L  02  3939  FIN  360  02  1268  MATH  225T  02  0621  PSY  455  01  3924  
CHEM  333L  01  0508  FIN  360  03  1269  MATH  226T  02  0501  PSY  462  01  2330  
CHEM  333L  02  1078  FIN  361  01  1272  MATH  325  01  1488  PSY  488B  01  4005  
COCL  101  01  2587  FIN  361  02  1273  MATH  325  03  0618  RLST  235  44  9544  
COCT  207  01  4128  FIN  361  03  1276  MATH  325  04  0617  RLST  242  58  9558  
COCT  425  01  3915  FIN  370  01  1277  MBA  601  01  3451  RLST  393  68  9568  
COMM  103  03  9703  FIN  380  04  2875  ME  241L  01  0383  ROFR  371  01  2971  
COMM  103  05  9705  FIN  460  03  3434  ME  331l  01  0380  ROFR  413  01  3807  
COMM  103  07  9707  FIN  470  01  1284  ME  331L  04  0377  ROSP  103  04  1947  
COTH  204  01  3025  FIN  473  01  1285  ME  339T  02  2923  ROSP  103  06  1949  
COTH  204  02  3075  GE  101  01  1326  MGT  231  01  1541  ROSP  103  10  1953  
COTH  205  01  3027  GE  101  02  1327  MGT  231  02  1544  ROSP  201  03  1958  
COTH  205  02  3077  GE  107  01  1336  MGT  231  03  1546  ROSP  234  01  0525  
COTH  285S  02  3521  GOVT  240  02  3200  MGT  231  05  2229  ROSP  237  01  0647  
COTH  310  01  4084  GOVT  242T  03  2518  MGT  240  02  1548  ROSP  237  02  0701  
COTH  435A  OJ  3525  GOVT  243T  05  2510  MGT  240  03  0597  ROSP  290  01  4220  
COTH  4361  01  3526  GOVT  243T  06  2509  MGT  240  05  1549  ROSP  310  01  1960  
COTH  440  01  2946  GOVT  325  01  3160  MGT  240  06  3438  ROSP  318  01  2973  
COTH  480  01  2138  GOVT  491G  01  0484  MGT  411  01  0606  ROSP  318  02  2416  
CSE  332L  01  0840  GOVT  491M  01  3896  MGT  482  01  1542  ROSP  328  01  1961  
CSE  332L  04  0451  GOVT  588  01  3901  MI  311  01  3227  ROSP  328  02  0133  
CSE  413  01  0491  GSC  243  01  3997  MI  334  01  3765  soc  232  01  2107  
DANC  145  79  9779  HESB  491  01  3221  MI  433  01  3773  soc  242  02  3083  
ECON  225T  04  4031  HIST  201  01  4150  MI  486  01  3776  soc  300  01  0521  
ECON  24AT  01  4037  HIST  264  01  3615  MI  525  01  3780  soc  302  01  2941  
ECON  24AT  02  4038  HIST  307A  01  4152  MUS  220  01  2456  soc  303  01  3065  
ECON  24BT  01  4046  HIST  311A  01  3228  MUS  221  01  1990  soc  332  01  2947  
ECON  24BT  02  4047  HIST  312  01  4153  MUS  226  01  1574  soc  370  01  2037  
ECON  24BT  03  4048  HIST  320A  01  3620  PHIL  201  01  1641  soc  390  01  2395  
ECON  24BT  04  4049  HIST  326A  01  3622  PHIL  201  02  1642  soc  430  01  3158  
ECON  24BT  OS  4050  HIST  333A  01  3624  PHIL  201  03  1643  soc  441  01  3831  
ECON  24BT  07  4052  HIST  353A  01  3627  PHIL  201  05  1645  soc  448  01  3832  
ECON  303  01  1122  HIST  386A  01  4159  PHIL  201  07  1647  STV  256  01  4006  
ECON  315  01  4055  HIST  388A  01  4161  PHIL  201  08  1648  THEO  200  01  0790  
THEO 250 01 0757 


next year," said Poulin. "However, I'm positive about the recruits we have coming here and the current direction of the Notre Dame hockey pro­gram." 
•1111 II~ 1t:55,t1D,ti:411,1:111,1UD 
•FIPNIIGIII!(PG) 1:110,4:111,7:•.10:111 
•Dalnl CI*ni(R) 110,4:Dii,7:11,1D:1D 
•Dl Cn(PG-13) 1:DU:30,ti:ti0,1:05,1D:U 
·~II fl'iiiii(PG-13) 1:31,4:tD,7lO,t.liD 
•Oil J• llll1111'1:8(PG-13) 1tli0,3:111,5:30,7:45,1D:D5 
•M•or PIYIII(PG-13) 1:111,3:!5,6:45.7:56.10:15 
•1111'111 W8iiiJW(II) 1:3U1D,7:05.t.45 
•Til TIIB(PG) 1:25,3:35,5:35 •EIB1Ica(ll) 7:4Ui5 IAII111t P-G) 1:1ti,3:D5,5:1111 
Mlliasll KIAII GIIIJI'UII(PG-13) 7:15,8:411 ,, Ia ALL &E.ATS llHOtlE 6 Pf,l
*flO PASSES ~l!Plll$AW~'5 AC.CEPTEO 
THEO 200 02 2116 THEO 200 03 4225 THEO 200 04 4226 THEO 200 05 4227 THEO 200 06 4270 THEO 217 01 3967 THEO 242 01 3969 THEO 243 01 0288 THEO 243T 01 2320 
THEO 243T 02 2319 
THEO 259 01 3970 
THEO 260 01 3971 
THEO 260 02 3972 
THEO 261 01 3318 
THEO 264 01 3085 
THEO 265 01 0779 
THEO 266 01 1997 
THEO 266 02 0778 
THEO 269 01 2380 
THEO 270 01 3974 
THEO 280 01 4228 
THEO 283 01 3324 
THEO 287 01 2377 
THEO 288 01 2376 
THEO 290A 01 0465 
THEO 290B 01 3977 
THEO 290C 01 3978 
THEO 405 01 3979 
THTR 276 54 9754 
THTR 276 56 9756 
CLASSilS IHAI WILL KllQfll~ AI Z;OIII'.M, fl26/9fl 
AL 211 01 0841 Al 211 10 0850 AL 211 19 0859 ARHI 169 01 0890 BA 363 05 0952 BA 392 01 2353 CE 331 02 4257 COMM 103 05 9705 COTH 204 02 3075 DANC 145 79 9779 ECON 303 01 1122 ECON 484 01 3032 ECON 485 01 2136 ENGL 200 01 3532 ENGL 319A 01 2937 ENGL 392B 01 3546 FIN 347 01 2872 FIN 361 01 1272 FIN 361 02 1273 GOVT 243T 05 2510 HIST 311A 01 3228 HIST 353A 01 3627 liPS 241 02 3205 PHIL 201 07 1647 PHIL 201 08 1648 PHIL 248 01 3942 PHIL 261 03 3945 PHIL 264 03 4099 PHYS 221L 05 1682 ROSP 103 04 1947 ROSP 103 06 1949 THEO 200 05 4227 THEO 260 01 3971 THEO 280 01 4228 THEO 283 01 3324 

Wednesday, April 26, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL RESULTS 
-

Sweeter than Candy def. White Chocolate Thunder, 21-12 Rebel Alliance def. Las Tetas, 21-5 Bring out the Gimp def. Heck, Even We Can Score ... , 21-19 NBT II def. Electric Pleasure II, 21-6 Back for More def. Prop 187, 21-7 SWOOSH def. Dickey Frappe's Atomic Comet, 21­10 Malicious Prosecution def. Vanilla Thunder, 21-19 Models INC. def. BLUE, 21­9 Woody &4 Other Stiffs def. McDonald's All-American, 21-4 BLITZKRIEG def. Team 90, 21-13 Serial Killas def. Villa de Lobes, 21-12 Cactus Jack's def. Now Give Me Some Candy, 21-6 Nocturnal Rhythm def. Dave's Boys, We Ride, 21­16. CASH def. Linebacker Bouncers ... , 21-9 Hood River Bandits def. Gunslingers, 21-14 Showtime def. Who are 5 guys who have never ... , 21­7 All The President's Men def. Jimi Thing, 21-17 DESIRE def. Nothing But Net, 21-14 Pink Sky in the Morning def. Keep your Pink Triangles ... , 21-9 KERBDOG def. Uncommonly Smooth, 21­16 O'Malley 29ers def. We're the Truth &You Can't Handle ... , 21-14 AFRODEEZIAKS def. 60" of Vertical, 21-16 Prop 48 def. Phat Men, 21­12 Diamondbacks def. Suave­ltos, 21-6 Wooden Shoes def. L-Train, 21-9 ARCOLA BROOMCORN Co. def. Dauntless Dogs, 21-18 Dirty Brown Shoe def. 1200 Lbs of Trash Happy DoDo, 23-21 Your Mamma's Favorite Fivesome def. Yo, Yo, Yo: Tell Your Dog ... , 21-13 
C.C.E. def. Klibs &the Amazing Technicolor Hair, 21-8 Vanilla Kernals def. Substantial Renovation, 25­23 
• WEDNESDAY'S REVISED BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll SCHEDULE 
C.C.E. vs. Wooden Shoes-Stepan 2 ARCOLA BROOMCORN Co. vs. All
The chosen @ 6:15 the President's Men -Stepan 6 @ Pink Sky in the Morning vs. Serial 6:00 Killa -Stepan 2 @ 7:00 KERBDOG vs. CASH -Stepan 6 @
32 action set 
DOS KLOSKAS vs. Vanilla Kernals -6:45 Stepan 3 @ 5:30 SWOOSH vs. Nocturnal Rhythm -Showtime vs. DESIRE -Stepan 3 @ Stepan 7 @ 4:00 

for today 
4:45 Dirty Brown Shoe vs. Sweeter than Cactus Jack's vs. Woody & 4 Other Candy -Stepan 7 @ 4:45 Models INC. vs. Blitzkreig -Stepan 2 
Stiffs -Stepan 3 @ 6: 15 Your Momma's Favorite Fivesome vs.
@ 4:00 Hood River Bandits vs. Back tor More The O'Malley 29ers -Stepan 7 @Rebel Alliance vs. AFRODEEZIAKS ­
-Stepan 6 @ 4:30 5:30
Stepan 2 @ 4:45 Malicious Prosecution vs. Prop 48 -Bring out the Gimp vs.
NBT II vs. Ezekial25:17-Stepan 2@ 
Stepan 6@ 5:15 Diamondbacks, Stepan 2 @ 1 0:00 5:30 






ICEBERG DEBATES 
STANFORD HALL VS. GRACE HALL 
AFFIRMATIVE NEGATIVE 
TOPIC: THE BALANCED BUDGET AMMENDMENT COME TO THE FINAL DEBATE! 
TONIGHT, APRIL 26TH 9:00PM IN THE CCE AUDITORIUM 
FREE 
rn II] FOOD! 
IACTION IWfJ Ill 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
-------~-----------------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 26, 1995 
Sailors set for Coed Dingys, women garner lacrosse honors
-
By CAROLINE BLUM and JOE VILLINSKI 
The Sailing Team will be tak­iug time out from An Tostal this weekend in order to travel to the University of Wisconsin­Madison for the Coed Dingy Championships of the Midwest College Sailing Association. 
The regatta will involve ten teams, but only the top two fin­ishing teams will qualify for Nationals. 
"We feel pretty confident about this weekend. Our biggest competition will come from Marquette, Northwestern, and Wisconsin," said the team commodore sophomore Brien Fox. 
Fox will be sailing one of the two boats this weekend with Lauren Mack of Lyons Hall. The other boat will be occupied by Steve Kelley and team cap­tain Bridget Murray. 
Last weekend, the women of the sailing team earned a third place finish in the Women's Conference Championships, led by skippers Murray and Mack. 
In addition to this weekend's race, the team is looking for­ward to the Team Racing Championships which will take place during the weekend be­fore fmals. 
Over the course of the year, the team has competed in over twenty regattas. So far the team has placed first in the Men's Single-Handed Cham­pionship, which was led by Kelley, and the Women's Single-Handed Championship, which was led by Murray. 
"We've done a pretty great job this year, and I hope that we will continue to reach our goals in the last two weeks of our season," said Fox. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
The Notre Dame women's lacrosse team had some goals for their first season: win a few games, have some fun and lay a solid foundation for the future of the program. 
As the season draws to a close, the 9-1-1 Irish have ex­ceeded their early season hopes in a big way, claiming a berth in the first ever Women's Collegiate Lacrosse League play-offs this weekend. 
Saturday, the Irish will meet Vanderbilt at Ohio State. The league finals and all-star game will be Sunday in Columbus. 
Notre Dame had four players earn all-league honors. Seniors Michelle McQuillan and Julie Mayglothling made first team, and sophomore Tara Pierce and junior Megan McGrath re­ceived honorable mention. 
The team ended their regular season Saturday with a 7-5 win at Michigan State. The Irish had tied the Spartans 9-9 in their earlier meeting, and the hosts were determined to earn a win with aggressive, tough 
play. 
But keyed by an equally ag­gressive defense, Notre Dame was able to overcome MSU. Freshman goalie Kara Wynn Tech for the first time in the team's history.

The .~· Kara Ratliff. Molly Ryan, 
Sarah Blattner, Amber Meely, Stacey Kramar, Molly Mayka, and Kelly Costello represented the team at Nationals, and were extremely satisfied with their stellar performance which earned them a sixth place fin­ish. 
Due to the performance, the team is now ranked number six in the nation. 
The team's season consisted of five meets, in which they placed second in three and third in two. Next year the team hopes to continue their success due to a high amount of young gymnasts. 
The Gymnastics Team also contains a large number of male members, which were mostly new to the competition this year. 
However, the team's males have good things in store for them next year. 
The team still practices daily GYMNASTICS in Angela Athletic Facility at
Although the Gymnastics Saint Mary's every weekday
Team's competitive season has afternoon from 4-6. They areended, their dedication towards always hoping for new mem­gymnastics has not. 
bers in both their advanced andThis season, the women on beginner levels at anytime ofthe team were invited to the the season.
Women's Nationals at Virginia 
CREW 
When the Notre Dame crew team traveled to Tennessee last weekend, they encountered some of the best southern schools in the nation. 
This tough competition could be seen in the results as the Irish failed to qualify any boats for the finals. 
"It was a little disappointing," men's captain Chris Raffo said. "We had been racing well against midwest schools, but we had some trouble against the southern schools." 
Virginia swept most of the events at the Regatta as the southern schools are able to practice year round, a luxury not available to the Irish. 
"The southern schools prac­tice more because of where they are located," Raffo added. 
This weekend the Irish will travel to Madison, Wisconsin to compete in one of the four qualifying regattas for the national championships. The men's novice light and the men's lightweight eight both look to turn in good perfor­mances according to Raffo. 
"We weren't that quick last Saturday," Raffo said. "This weekend we are going to focus on the midwest teams." 
wuespeci~~im~ess~e. ~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
lowing no goals in the last 15 1: minutes of play. Juniors Erin Breen and Carrie Englinton and freshmen Jen Ennis and Kerry Audley backed Wynn in the field. 
Over Easter weekend a quar­tet of first-time players consist­ing of junior Meghan Quigley, sophomores Jen Jocz and Sara Guertin and freshman Kelly Gleason led the Irish to two wins over Miami (OH) and Purdue. 
The Student Union Board & Student Activities Present: 
.£.TID 
.... 
.. ·'··· .. . . . . .. . . . ·.: ;}~rfi!f~j;":'~~,~:?L<.~i.:u;;~)~\~&~~~i~·!J"~£j:,. ~ 
Gray T-shirts in 3 sizes with flashy: multi-color design Large@ $15.00 X-Large@ $15.00 XX-Large@ $17.50 
Proceeds to go to the Central Ohio/Notre Dame Scholarship Fund 
On Sale in LaFortune, Thursday, April 27 

Wednesday, April 26, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 


IN T\-\15 155\JE., CHEWING RE'JIE:WS 11-\E ~EW GUM Cl-\t.WI~G APPARt.L . 

DILBERT 
BUY THE COI"\PANY, BUT THANK..S TO SOME Tli'\ELY 
LEAKS TO TI-\E /"\£.DIA YOUR 
VALUE HAS PLUNGED 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Singer Ed 5 Songbird McEntire 9 Shortstop Ernie 14 Historic Adnatic 
port 15 Skip over 1& Tatum or Ryan 17 Cobb's "-­
Laughing" 18 Novel set in Tahiti 19 Kind of blonde, once 20 Speed demon's 
way togo 23 "The works" 24 Chan portrayer 27 1930's power 
prog. 30 Navy waiter 
34 Sandy's woof 3& Bunny's way to go 
38Crazy -­("0 Pioneers!" hermit) 
39 Dogie catcher 40 Outlawry 41 Adult insect 42 Mr. Cassini 43 Pig buyer's way 
togo 
45"--doll ..." (start of a request) 
4& Bleach ingredient 47 Cricket sides 48 Wedding dress feature 50 Dock org. 52 Tumbler's way togo 
~ '. ,.·. ' -' '. ',-;­
T\-115 JE:RSE'{ 15 MAD\::. 'f-111\-1 
SWE.\·\E~® FIBt.R'S n.\~1 
'tliCK A.WAi P£.1<'51'\R~\ION.' 11-lE. 1'<\E:'SI-\ COW..R KEEl'S ~ooR STER~<JMf\'3\0IDS IJE:\-11\Lf>.\E\) Al..\.D 1\-\E. IIPI'£R'J) POCKIT'> 1-\Cll.D S~RE GU~ A~D WRAPPERS' 
\~/~ 
' 
,------------...,;:;
r-----::=~~==~ 
WIN  IS  II  1111\T Gl~£'5 '{OIJ  f.\<JW CA\-1 'i<J\J  I'D  5\JRE  
CO'IE.R'C.D 'tl\11\  1\.\E. \")jQ\OLOG\CAL  \ELL IV 'iOO'R\::.  L\\(£ TQ BE  
\!,~\)LOGOS?  R\:.11-DING t>.l'\  t>. W"'L~Il..\.<;  
f>.\liJE:RIISE~ffil,  E:\l.I:XlR.St:Me-.1\.  
A P\<.OWG RE~IEW,  --,,r----1  
OR 1\4\::. \='ROWCT  
ITSE.l~?  

SCOTT ADAMS 
YOUR. 5TOCK.. WAS ~30 PE.R ~ HOWEVER, IF YOU ~ DONE $:,0 YEAH, "PE.R 
(.) 
SHARE WHEN I OFF Ef\E.O TO ~ SELL RIGHT NOW ~ PER 5HARE. SHARE" 
~ I'LL PAY THE. FULL E 15 MORE WOULD HAVE ~ .t\>30 FOR YOUR ! THAN FAIF\ BEEN FAIR ~ STOCK I RECO""""END "' 
~ ' " ' ~ 
WE. DO ~ IT'-~ 
::. 
..
.. "' 
59 Taper off &2 Buck extension &3 Satiate &4 Bakery order &5 Course offerer && Emilia's 
husband &7 Cancel &8 Wrangle &9 Physician's 
photo 
DOWN 
11 Pince-­
55 Island west of 43 Dec. 31 follower12 1970's TV law 32 Chases flies Scotland drama 44 Delete text 
33 One of a pair of 
5& Ananais 13Wily drums 4&Still 
57 Gymnast Korbut 21 Gantry or Fudd 35 Aristophanes 49 Chasing 58 Stratagem22 Chicago area, comedy, with 51 Attach 59 Org. founded with "the" "The" by H.H H53 Actress Dawber 25 Prized rug 371dentify. in a &O Duck for apples eta\.
2& Bring home by way 
&1 Kind of dye 38"Am-­
the ears 54 Kind of school 
27 Pulsate brother's28 It may be ultra keeper?" Get answers to any three clues29 Show up 
41 Shelley's by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
31 Dame Thorndike of the "Paradise of 5656 (75¢ each minute).exiles"
English stage 
TLS Industries had a tendency to overmanage Its employees. 
• OF INTEREST {~:_: 
~~+ 
., "Reform and Controversies: Some Comment& orf Current China,*~ is the topic ofa lecture by Gao Xiart, of the Chinese Center for Third World Studies in Beijing. The lecture will be held today at 12:30 p.m. in r()Qm C-102 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. \w · 
,.·::~;~wrj~~~~,p~'f~~:jjt~kL'-'·'''-·, ~ 
"The lnternatlonal Condition of Women," a paneldiscussion, will take place today at the esc at 7:30p.m. Women from South Africa. Mexico, and Brazil will be sharing their experiences • 
··,,,,,.,,,,,:+W:J«~~~--~-~,~·w· -~~%1, ~-t,.®A· 
+%>The Juggler Spring PQftry and Fiction Reading 
will be on Thursdayr ~* '{:00 to 9:00 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library. Refreshments will be served. 
., '~ .,,, ' 




Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
What You\1Learneln'%College Depends On What You Study. Party your\vay through and. yd~'ll be good at itSWhen you get out Sponsore9 by The·.. ohol and Drug Education 
.:....·=.-::,:r~~· 
.. 
• 
.. 

~~~------------------------­


SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, April 26, 1995 
• HOCKEY 
New hockey coach Dave Poulin realizes his dream of returning to 


The 'Ideal' Man 
coach Notre Dame. 

By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 
Who says you can't go home again? 
After a month of drama and suspense, the Notre Dame ath­letic department announced Tuesday that former Irish cap­tain and current NHL standout Dave Poulin will return to South Bend as the next head coach of the Irish hockey team. 
Poulin, a former Notre Dame star and a 12 year veteran of the National Hockey League, will fill the vacancy left by Ric Schafer. who resigned March 24 after eight seasons as head coach of the Irish. 
"Coming back to Notre Dame has been a dream of mine for some time," said Poulin. "I am grateful for the opportunity, and I look forward to seeing the program excel." 
In an effort to rebuild the struggling program, Notre 
Observer file photo 
Dame athletic director Dick 
Ex-Philadelphia Flyer star and current Washington Capital Dave 
Rosenthal passed over several
Poulin will retire at the end of this season and become Notre Dame's 
qualified candidates to bring
head hockey coach, replacing Ric Schafer. 
• SPRING fOOTBAll 
Normalcy reigns for Irish 
By MIKE NORBUT 
Spans Editor 
Sometimes, a little excitement is good 
for a football team. But no excitement is 
better for Notre Dame. 
After trudging through countless off­the-field problems last spring and dip­ping to a 6-5-1 record this past season, nothing would have pleased Irish coach Lou Holtz more than for his team to just be focused on their game. 
Wishes were finally granted by his players at Tuesday's scrimmage, the final tuneup before Saturday's 65th annual Blue-Gold Game. 
"We've had an excellent spring so far," the coach mused. "We've had very few injuries, and some great hits. It's 
• 
.. 
been really intense." 
So intense, in fact, that two fights had to be broken up yesterday. Third team defensive backs were head-butting, receivers were dancing and coaches were screaming. It 
Of course, a Notre Dame spring prac­tice season would not be complete with­out a little controversy. 
"LaRon Moore has been suspended indefmitely from the team because of a violation of team rules," Holtz said. "There are rules at the university and rules on this team, and they have to be abided by." 
Moore, a free safety in his final year of eligibility, will be replaced by fresh-
see SPRING I pagel4 
back one of the best and one of the most popular players to ever lace up the skates for the Irish. 
"I am proud to announce that the university is bringing back its most famous and most suc­cessful player as men's hockey coach," said Rosenthal. "Dave Poulin had so many alterna­tives, and it is a compliment to the university that he chose to come back here. He is the ideal of Notre Dame." 
After graduating from Notre Dame in 1982, Poulin played one season with the Rogle hockey club in Sweden before signing with the Philadelphia Flyers in February 1983. The 5-11, 190 pound center played in his 700th NHL game on Jan. 29 and has amassed 530 points in his 12 year career. 
Poulin, who still holds Notre Dame records with 13 game winning goals and eight hat tricks, is currently on the Washington Capitals active ros­
see POULIN I page 15 
• BASEBALL 
Irish turn on Tide, 
-'~b Twin 5-3 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sport$ Writer 
Its hard to play better baseball than the team from the University of Alabama did last night. 
Buras hard as it is, the club from Notre Dame did justthat, edging the Crimson Tide 5-3. 
It was a huge victory in the Irish's continuing quest for national respect. 
In the most recent Collegiate Baseball rankings, Notre Dame (32-13} found themselves at 23, two ahead of Alabama. 
"The national rankings are something we pay attention to and take a lot of pride in," said coach Paul Mainieri. "I felt we deserved to be ranked for awhile." 
The Irish overcame a solid performance by Alabama's Will Schleuss, who struck out 
see IRISH I page 16 


NBT2's Haigh 


holds court 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
Stand next to Joe Haigh for ten min­utes and you meet the world. 
One minute he and Ron Powlus are exchanging pleasantries. The next, he and Admore White knock down some jumpshots. Commissioner Todd Leahy offers congratulations on another NBT2 victory while reffing at an adjacent court. You keep waiting for Monk Malloy to drop in for tips on his defense. 
Haigh is a fixture at the Stepan courts, holding court of his own on the game he loves, always while keeping an eye on the competition playing around him . 
"This is what the campus is all about," said Haigh. "It's .great to see everyone out here playing ball, and it's fun that everyone is so competitive about it. Everyone looks at interhall as just a tune-up for Bookstore." 
No one enjoys the atmosphere more than Haigh. If a ball is bouncing some­where on campus, chances are that he is in the vicinity, and when the courts are packed in late April, Haigh can be found strolling around soaking it in well into the night. 
"I guess if I spent more time at the library, I couldn't be out here, but to be honest, I hate that place," laughed Haigh. "Being a senior and playing ball alot, I know many of the players, so I just enjoy coming out here to watch them." 
Haigh's knowledge of the campus bas­ketball circuit has made him an impor­
tant resource on the grapevine. If you 
see HAIGH/ pagel6 

want to know who C.C.E. is looking to pick up, ask him. Question on how the freshman on Cactus Jack's looks? Haigh will be able to tell you. 

.. 
Wednesday, April 26 Thursday, April27 Friday, April 28 Saturday, April29 
Blue and Gold game 
ND Baseball vs.Alabama 5:00 ND Baseball vs.Eastern Illinois 5:00 ND Track at Drake Relays ND Track at Drake Relays ND Softball at DePaul 3:30 SMC Tennis at Albion College 2:00 ND Softball vs. Indiana 12:00 
ND Lacrosse at Michigan State Bookstore Basketball quarterfinals Bookstore Basketball action continues 
SMC Track at Elmhurst Invitational Bookstore Basketball semifinals 
More Bookstore Basketball 




