
Wednesday, November 8, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 52 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• ElECTION '95 
Kernan victorious in mayoral election 
Democrat, ND alum to enter third term 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
Assistalll Nrws Editor 
Dmnoeratic incumbent Joseph Kernan swept into his third term of ollice last night becoming tho long11St serving mayor in the history of South Bend. With S2 percent of the votes, Kernan soundly defeatnd Hepublican challenger Michael Waite, a busirHlssman from South Bend, who Kernan also defeated in the 19S7 mayoral elec­tions. 
Kernan. a 196S Notre Dame alumnus, served as the South Bnnd City Comptroller from 19SO to l9H4, before being elected mayor in 1987. Among his aehievtlments in ollice have been the eonstruetion of thn College Football llall of Fame and tlw proposed construction of a new stadium to house a hoekny nxpansion team. 
"I am most proud of our accomplishments over thn past four years and will dedicate the next four years to doing the best I can," said Kernan. 
Thn mayoral race between Kernan and Waite has continued over the past several months through Waite's accusations of wrongful action by Kllrnan and through Waite's own legal trou­bles as well as his loss of support by the Republi­ean party. 
The candidates' platforms covered a wide vari­ety of issuns with Kernan campaigning on his past succnsses and proposals for the future. and Waite campaigning against increasing crime and against several of Kernan's proposals. 
According to Kernan's campaign manager, Mary Downes, "We were fairly confident. Our plan was to run the best campaign possible and of course to win." 
Kernan's reelection makes him the first mayor of South Bend since 1905 to be elected to three terms of office. "He will be the longest serving mayor. however, because at that time mayoral terms were only two years," said Downes. 
In his third term, Kernan does not plan to approach the office much differently, but hopes that the lessons he has learned in his first two terms will help him fulfill his "vision of a greater South Bend." 
"Our success is an indication of the kind of things we can do when we pull together," said Kernan. 
Kernan was one of nine Democratic candidates out of ten to win their respective races within South Bend, and he feels this will best benefit the needs of the community. "Just about a year ago I announced I would seek a third term of office, and as I have said one of the reasons I did so was because of the people I have had the privilege to serve with. We have come out with an outstand­ing group of men and women that is rep­resentative of the community," said Kernan. 
Three main issues will dominate Kernan's agenda for the next four years including public safety, economic development, and the neighbor­hoods of South Bend. According to Kernan, these issues make up the bulk of his focus. and 
see ELECTION I page 6 


Waite defeated, not dejected 

By JAMIE HEISLER suit for unpaid child support posed construction of a new Assistant Nrws Editor payments. hockey stadium stating that the In his campaign, Waite has funds could be better appropri­
Hepublican candidate Michael sought to focus more attention ated. Waite may have been beaten, on the issues that he feels Ker­While he is disappointed with but h11 says his campaign was nan has ignored in his terms as the turnout, Waite offered sup­far from a waste of time. mayor ineluding the issue of port for Kernan. "He ran a 
"I have madn people more crime. Waite stated early in his good race. I would like to con­aware of the issues." he said campaign that he felt Kernan gratulate the mayor and am Tuesday night. would not even admit the fact willing to work with him. I 
In his second bid for mayor that there was a crime prob­wish him the best in the next since 19H7. Waite was defeat­lem. four years," saiiJ Waite. ed, garnering only 3,106 of Although he lost, Waite feels Waite's plans for the future 
17.415 votes. that through his campaign he are unsure at the moment but 
Waitn. president of the High has accomplished several bene­he does not plan to run for Tech Alarm Corporation Inc., fieial goals. l. .. made Kernan political office in the near has not previously hnfd o!'lice admit there was a crime prob­future. ''I'm going to sit back and has recently faeed several lem," he stated. and take a look at the options. legal troubles induding an ar­Waite had also criticized Ker­rest for unpaid bills and a law-nan for his support of the pro-
see WAITE I page 6 


NASAND, Snite director Man files lawsuit against ND seek mural resolution 
he can lit in his yard at a given paid for by tax payers and to
Property rights 
time. As a disabled veteran of which the University has no le­By HRAD PRENDERGAST nic groups." 42 years, he perceived this as a gal claim," stated Marozsan. "It Assou:ur News Editor NASAND contends that the concern resident practical way to add to his year­is the taking away of personal 
murals should be removed be­ly income. From the first year property without due process of Dean Porter. director of The cause they show Native Ameri­ofSouth Bend he began parking cars. howev­the law." Snilll Muse urn of Art, and rep­cans as members of a culture er, Marozsan charges that the Marozsan has lived in South
By MARY KATE MORTON 
resentatives of the Native inferior to that of Western Eu­St. Joseph's County Police and Bend since 1925 and calls him­
Associate News Editor 
Amerkan Student Association ropeans. according to Candice Notre Dame Security have gone self the oldest living member of at Notre 
Pascua, president of the orga­out of their way to discourage the Sacred Heart Parish. "For a
On any given football week­
Dame agreed nization, and because the mu­this practice. school that teaches social jus­
end at Notre Dame, tens of 
earlier this rals erroneously credit Colum­On Oct. 10, Marozsan filed a tice, I think their actions have
thousands of fans, young and 
wnek that bus for the discovery of Amer­formal lawsuit against the St. been terrible," he said. 
old, pour into campus to cheer 
NASAND's ica. Joseph's County Police Depart­According to Marozsan, the 
on the Fightin' Irish. For most,
complaint "We strongly disagree with m~nt and Sheriff Joseph University officials refuse to re­
it is a time of celebration, of 
against the the murals ... because they Speybroeck, stating that they spond to his offers of an easy
trading stories of the glory
Main Build­show only the European point had taken away his right to en­negotiation. "I have tried to
years of the Four Horseman, 
i n g s of view," a NASAND pamphlet joy his property and use it as a create a dialogue with the Pres­
Knute Rockne, Ara Parseghian.
Christop her Porter read. "Native Americans in­revenue-producing source. ident and Vice-President to
But South Bend resident 
Columbus habited this land long before Less than a month later, Nov. solve this easily remedied prob­
Stephen Marozsan says each 
murals must be resolved. the arrival of Columbus." 2, Marozsan found himself in lem, but I have gotten nowhere.
football weekend brings him 
"I understand the reasons for At a meeting on Monday, court again, this time to add a That's the purpose of this law­
more angst than the previous. 
[NASAND'sl concern about the Porter and members of new defendant to the lawsuit: suit," said Marozsan. 
Marozsan, of 54361 Palmer 
murals," Porter said. "I can NASAND reviewed the issues of The University of Notre Dame. University Director of Public
St., has used his lawn us a park­
see how having the murals up the students' protest and dis-"It's a simple case of the Uni­Relations, Dennis Moore, said
ing lot for Notre Dame fans 
would be very difficult for Na­versity ordering police to block­
since 1989, charging $5 a car 
tive Americans and other eth-ade a county-paved road that is
for the approximately 70 cars see lAWSUIT I page 4
see NASANDI page 4 

--------~ 
Wednesday, November 8, 1995

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 





The bagel debacle 
As an east-coaster at a-------­decidedly midwestern 

school. it has taken me all three years and three months that I've been a student here to conquer Notre Dame's midwest­ern idiosyncrasies, if 
that's possible.  I think  
I've finally got it down.  Mary Kate Morton  
Soda is pop. Chicago is  Associate News Editor  
the capital of the world  
and it has some sort of a  

loop. The Bears are champions. Ditka is God and Michael Jordan is the second savior. OK. Fine. I can deal. 
I've even mastered the "art" of the mid­western accent. It's not Chi-~a-go, it's Chi­CAAAHHH-go. These things I have grown to accept, if only to survive in a hostile environ­ment.. 
BUT, there is one aspect of midwestern life that I cannot ... no ...I will not succumb to ­the midwestern excuse for a bagel. Hailing from the east, especially the tri-state area, does not prepare you for the drastic changes the precious bagel undergoes as it crosses the line into Central Standard Time (or that weird time zone of NO). Maybe it's the water. Maybe it's the dough. Maybe it's the simple fact that New York is the home of the bagel and the ancient, authentic recipe hasn't made it past the Appalachian Trail yet. Whatever. All I know is that my main reason for going home at Thanksgiving is to get my bagel fix. 
I have dreams of H & H bagels or Zabar's and I wake up happy, thinking I can trot down the street and pick up my sesame bagel with cream cheese. Not mushy or squishy but that perfect balance of firm freshness that is the hallmark of the New York bagel. Then, I wash my face, look in the mirror and realize. to my horrors of horrors, that I'm up at 8 in the morning not to beat the crowds at H & H, but at Studebagels. 
What a nightmare, I think to myself. But I head over to Stud-ies anyway and find myself faced with all these crazy types of bagels: pumpkin spice, chocolate chip, hazelnut...HAZELNUT?? C'mon now, folks. These are gourmet coffee flavors, not bagels. Whatever happened to the standard plain, sesame. poppy, cinnamon raisin or onion? At 8 a.m., I don't have the brain power to choose from 31 flavors. That's reserved for Baskin Robbins, not Studebagels. 
Maybe they make so many to distract peo­ple from the fact that what they're really get­ting is not an actual bagel but merely bread with a hole. Because that's what they are. And if you think that's all a bagel is, I say this: I'm so sorry for your lack of bagel knowledge. It's truly tragic if you've never experienced the beauty of an east-coast bagel. That's what it is. An experience, not just a breakfast option and certainly not a sandwich component. I can't even talk about the phenomenon of the bagel sandwich. How can you taint the uniqueness of a bagel with lettuce, tomato and mustard? It's blasphe­my, no doubt about it. 
So as I travel home for Thanksgiving in two weeks, I'll be concentrating on my hole-y friends, instead of turkey, mashed potatoes and gravy. I've been away too long. Sesame, toasted with cream cheese, please. And that's BAY-gul, not BAAEH-gul. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Viewpoint Gwendolyn Norgle Tom Snider Sports Production Joe Villinski Kristi Kolski 
Kathleen Lopez Allison Fashek Graphics Lab Tech Brian Blank Brandon Candura 

• Wmu.o AT A Guwce 
Researchers say rise in prostate cancer due to screening 
CHICAGO 
Diagnosed cases of prostate cancer are on the rise 
-not necessarily because of any decline in the health 
of American men, but because of a new blood test that 
can detect the disease early on, researchers say. 
The findings should be reassuring to men, said Dr. 
Steven Jacobsen, who reported the findings in 
Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical 
Association. 

The increase in diagnosed cases of prostate cancer 
"means it's probably not something out in the 
environment, something that we're doing lifestyle­
wise. It's probably just due to the testing," he said. 
"We're detecting cases that had not previously come 
to medical attention." 
The new PSA, or prostate-specific antigen, test can 
detect cancers that would have gone undiagnosed. 
The test. introduced in 1987 but not approved for 
screening until 1994, detects a prostate-produced 
protein. Elevated levels are a possible indicator of 
cancer, though a follow-up ultrasound and biopsy are .used to make a definitive diagnosis. 
Annual PSA screening for prostate cancer -the na­
tion's second-leading cancer killer of men -is now 
recommended for men 50 and older.Researchers at 
the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., examined the 
incidence of prostate cancer several years before and 
after the test was introduced and found a more than 
three-fold increase between 1983 and 1992. 
The prostate surrounds part of the urethra, the tube that carries urine from the bladder. As the prostate enlarges, It can squeeze the urethra and cause urinary problems. 
usually starts near 
ol the gland. Ttlis 
allows the doctor to feel it 
a finger during a rectal exam. Prostate cancer can cause symptoms of obstruction, but does not always. 
The PSA test measures the level of PSA In a blood sample. Elevated levels may indicate cancer, though an ultrasound and biopsy are used to verify results. 

1983 c::::::J64 (Diagnoses per 100,000 people, 

r::=======:::J 
based on a study of 511 cases in

1992 ._ 215 Olms1ed Coun1y, Minn.) 
Source: Krames Communications, Merck & Co. AP/Carl Fox 
Bentsen releases Whitewater info 
WASHINGTON 
Federal investigators testified Tuesday they were stunned to discover that former Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen gave the White House material from a Whitewater-related ethics probe. Bentsen insisted he acted prop­erly. "I have done 30 years of public service trying to make a difference, and I am proud of that service," Bentsen 

told the Senate Whitewater Committee under questioning by Republicans. The former treasury secretary said he provided transcripts of witness interviews to the White House counsel's office under "strict standards" that they not be shared with presidential aides who were prepar­ing to testify at Whitewater hearings. Bentsen took the step, he testified, after then-White House counsel Lloyd Cutler "said he was having trouble getting" the material. Patricia Black of the inspector general's office at Treasury's Resolution Trust Corp. said the investigators "adamantly opposed" giving the White House sworn tes­timony of witnesses. 
Midshipmen may face punishment 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 
Twenty-four Naval Academy midshipmen suspected of 
selling or using drugs face possible disciplinary action, 
and five of them could be court-martialed. The investiga­
tion began last month when two midshipmen were 
caught with LSD off academy grounds. They and three 
others are suspected of selling drugs, and Navy lawyers 
will recommend whether a court-martial should be con­
vened. A court-martial could result in prison sentences 
and fines in addition to discharge from the Navy. There­
maining 19 are suspected of using marijuana and LSD, 
academy spokesman Capt. Tom Jurkowsky said Monday. 
The Navy has a zero tolerance policy for drug use, and 
Jurkowsky said any midshipmen found to have used 
drugs probably would be recommended for discharge. 
That decision would be made by the secretary of Navy 
based on a recommendation from the superintendent. 
Charges not filed against officers 
PITTSBURGH 

Prosecutors have decided not to file first-or second­degree murder charges against five white policemen in the beating and suffocation death of a black motorist. Last week, a coroner's jury had recommended homicide charges in the Oct. 12 death of Jonny Gammage, which some jurors likened to a lynching. Gammage, 31, was a cousin of Pittsburgh Steelers' defensive end Ray Seals. Allegheny County District Attorney Robert Colville said Monday he had rejected first-or second-degree homicide charges because the officers' testimony during the coro­ner's inquest showed they had not intended to kill Gammage. But he said he will continue studying the evi­dence to determine whether to file the less-serious charges of third-degree murder or involuntary manslaughter. Both fall within the classification of homi­cide charges, which the jury recommended on Friday. Colville's decision probably will not be announced until later this month. "From what I heard in that courtroom, I don't see first-or second-degree murder to be feasi­ble," Colville said. "Nor do members of the (coroner's) jury, from my discussions with them." 
Scientists to FDA: Approve AIDS drug 
SILVER SPRING, Md. 

AIDS patients may soon have a new drug to help boost 
the effectiveness of their standard treatment Government 
scientists recommended Monday that the Food and Drug 
Administration approve the drug 3TC to be used with 
AZT, the standard therapy most AIDS patients take. 
Together, the drugs boost patients' immune systems and 
lower the amount of the HIV virus in their blood for at 
least six months, says Glaxo Wellcome Co., which manu­
facturers both drugs. The FDA is not obliged to accept 
the recommendations of advisory panels, but it usually 
does. If the FDA agrees. 3TC, whose trade name is 
Epivir, would become the fifth member of a family of 
AIDS drugs that fight the disease by crippling a protein 
important in the virus' reproduction. Today, scientists 
were debating another drug, Hoffmann-La Roche's 
Saquinavir, which could become the first of a new class. 

Wednesday, Nov. 8 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high tem,,eral'ure< 
OHIO 
llndianapoli3 37° I 
ILL. 
• 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 8. 

COLD Pressurs  WARM  STATIONARY  @ 1995 AccuWeather, Inc.  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS  FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PI CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
Allan!a 56 Bal1imore 61 Boston 59 Chalmette, LA 79  52 43 43 68  Columbus 53 Hous1on 72 Denver 52 Los Angeles 85  47 55 28 58  Minneapolis 44 New York 57 Philadelphia 60 Phoen1x 82  37 43 44 57  

0 1995 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Chicago 45 39 Miami 85 72 StLouis 57 
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
------~-­
Wednesday, November 8, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL


Russian woman adapts to America 
Council
way of success and happiness. shows."
International Program 
Instead, she chooses to look at the posi-When I asked her if she thought children lives. "The people are all so friendly," she here watch too much television, she replied considersstudent describes says. Deriglazoua said she especially feels with a firm, "yes." that the students and professors are outgo-Deriglazoua is very clear on her views ofexperience at ND, SMC ing and welcoming toward her. Sometimes, the United States. Always seeking advice, co-ed dorms almost to an extreme. For example, the she says that Americans are not very good
By LESLIE FIELD question, "how are you?" still baffles her. at questioning. But they seem to always By BILL CONNOLLY 
News Wri1cr 
Deriglazoua said that when she first arrived have an answer. News Writer 
h.ere and someone would ask her that ques-That may be something that AmericansLarissa Deriglazoua sits in the front row 
LIOn, she would stop and give them a can Jearn from others studying and living in The Hall Presidents' Council
in a 300 level rhetoric class at Saint 
detailed response. the U.S. Because Americans have always last night was presented with aMary's. Sho ean tell the class of junior and longtime controversy at NotreFinally someone explained ------------been told that they are thesenior English majors a great deal about 
to her that "how are you?" is "super power," they feel Dame, the issue of co-residen­classie pieces of American writing and so tiality.
a polite acknowledgment that they must Jive up tomuch more through her strong Russian and doesn't always require a the reputation by having Six years ago, a survey of the voeabulary words. Most people cannot 
drawn-out response. And all the answers, student body found that 80
imagine going to Hussia, learning the lan­
this is one of the problems Deriglazoua explains. percent of the Notre Dame stu­guage, and being suecessful in upper level dent body favored eo-residen­~hat Deri?lazoua ~as found 'Idon't like racism. I This sort of egocentri-Hussian classes. Deriglazoua has come to m observmg Amencans and cism is inherent in tiality. The HPC was told that a fomign country and has done just that. 
their social behavior around never thought I America, Deriglazoua says the Campus Life Council wouldDeriglazoua, a 32 year-old. attends Notre 
friends. would see it so when she uses adjectives again like to survey the stu­Dame and takes one English elass at Saint 
People here are, essential-h I like "selfish" and "waste-dents this year in order to seeMary's. When asked why she decided to ly, fake toward each other, s arp Y· I feel sorry ful" to describe a nation if this figure has changed. 
take an English class she replied, "I just according to Deriglazoua, that it is SO alive.' which, she says, does not There is no set plan for want to improve myself." This is the kind future co-residentiality yet at
who claims that, when she seem to understand thatof driven, humble person Deriglazoua is. 
sees two friends talking, one resources are not always Notre Dame, HPC Co-Chair
With a PhD in history from Tomsk State is talking constantly about Larissa Deriglazoua renewable and MTV is not Matt Schlatter said. The HPCUnivtlrsily, her home in Hussia, she has is only being asked to receive
him or herself, while the the best source for moralbeen an Assistant Professor at the school other person only partially guidance. their dorms' responses to threeteaehing the history of the Communist 
seems to be listening. This, With a strong set of val-questions regarding co­party. 
residentiality:
she feels, stems from the ues, Deriglazoua is veryAs a professional student and teacher, it selfish ways by which many passionate about her • Would you favor the optionis no wonder that Deriglazoua has of co-residentiality at NotreAmericans are raised. beliefs. She sees a lot ofreceiv11d the one spot available to a Russian 
"People seem very super-problems stemming from Dame? 
to participate in Notre Dame's 
• Would you live in a co-resi­ficial -like there is no involvement," the U.S. multicultural society. Offering an
International Program, which consists of 
dential dorm if given the
Deriglazoua says. "People go about their example of what she has experienced firstfourteen gifted people form around the business, talk about themselves, and leave." hand in terms of racism, Deriglazoua option to do so?
world. 
• Would you be in favor ofWhat may be a very sad commentary on describes one of the other students in Notre
This year, Deriglazoua will receive her America can be attributed to this sort of Dame's International Program. This stu­your current dorm going co­
maslnr's degree in Peace Studies from 
residential?
selfish mentality to the many facets of dents, who is from Kenya, is very intelligent Notre Dame. 
Current ideas include mak­American society, which Deriglazoua says is and self confident, Deriglazoua says. TheBut obtaining her degrees and continual­
very wasteful. student speaks four languages, and when ing some of the new dorms co­ly aehieving the level of success that she She points out the waste behind items she is at Notre Dame, she is respected by residential while maintaininghas not always U(Jen easy. 
parietals or some form of pari­
made out of things like plastic. the faculty and students. 
When Deriglazoua first came to Notre etals in all dorms, includingWastefulness and selfishness are not com-However, according to Deriglazoua, whenDame last year, language proved to be her mon in Hussia because Russian society does she and her friend are off-campus, the the co-residential ones. 
biggest obstade. "I had a really hard time not encourage or display it, as does the story takes a sad, tragically predictable The HPC also heard from Bxpressing myself," she said. 
Drew Buscerini, an
media in the United States, according to De-twist.
But Deriglazoua believes that the other 
administrator at the South
riglazoua. "She is treated like a charity case,"inlllrnational students helped her in over­Bend Center for the HomelessTelevision in Russia is a mess, but it is ~eriglazoua says. "This really bothers her,eoming the hard initial adjustment. 
nothing compared to U.S. television, said It really bothers me. I don't like racism. I and a graduate of Notre Dame. 
Last year, living alone in University He congratulated the HPC forDeriglazoua, who watches the Discovery never thought I would see it so sharply. IVillage apartments, near Notre Dame's helping to instill communitychannel. She points to the O.J. Simpson feel sorry that it is so alive." Deriglazouaeampus, made the transition from Russian trial as an example of ridiculous television. adds that her friend never faced problems service which he said was not 
to AmtJrican life even more difficult for "There is a lot of sensationalism to attract involving racism until she came to America. present when he was a student Deriglazoua. 
at Notre Dame. 
attention through cheap tricks," she said. "1 When Deriglazoua talks about the
llowever, because of Deriglazoua's 
Buscerini explained how Rev.
don't like that. It takes away from goodresilience, she doesn't let things get in her 
see RUSSIAN I page 4 Edward Malloy, University president, helped begin the move for a homeless center in South Bend along with the city

Have 

government of South Bend. The Center opened only seven

something to 
years ago, yet already serves 
about 139 homeless people 
each night. 

say? 

Buscerini petitioned the IIPC to support the Center's annual

Use Observer 
Christmas Luncheon by buying a table at the luncheon, which will have as its guest speakers 

classifieds 
see HPC I page 4 


Directed by Reginald Bain 
Wednesday, November 15 Sp.m. Thursday, November 16 Sp.m. Friday, November 17 Sp.m. Saturday, November 18 Sp.m. Sunday, November 19 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for all performances. 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. 
MasterCard and Visa Orders caii63I-8128 


page4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, November 8, 1995 
HPC 
continued from page 3 
Lou Holtz, head football coach at Notre Dame, and Roger Ali, a South Bend resident who was once homeless. All procedes from the event will benefit the Center. 
HPC Co-Chair Kristen Beary announced that there soon may be a campus calendar appear­ing on the Internet. The calen­dar would keep track of weekly activity meetings, thereby keeping activity members and the entire student body well in­formed, she said. 
The HPC discussed the ad­ministration's solution for the funding of campus events bene­fiting charity. Dorms will not receive any money from the Office of Student Activities if that money will help fund a charity. 
However, money may still be loaned to dorms even if the event being funded will give part of its proceeds to charity. 



NASAND 
continued from page 1 
cussed the merit of the murals. Porter, as head of the campus sculpture committee, is re­sponsible for making decisions on what artwork can and can­not be placed on campus. 
"I wanted to hear the stu­dents' concerns before I talked to the administration about their position," he said. "The meeting was very pro-active, very passionate, and very open." 
The officers of the University are scheduled to meet on November 28, where one of the items on the agenda will be NASAND's protest. 
"I'd like to talk to the administration. I have a lot of deep feelings about this," Porter said. "We have a lot of upset students here, and their concerns have to be addressed. 
"I'd like to see the situation resolved," he added, "but I'm not sure how yet." 
Prior to Monday's meeting, NASAND had called for the mu­rals to be moved from the Main Building to The Suite, where they could be considered only as artwork and not as the Uni­versity's official opinion on Na­tive American heritage. But Porter said Monday that such a plan may not be feasible for two reasons. 

In order for a campus event to take place, four dorms must participate in the event, but four dorms no longer need to be involved in the actual orga­nization of the event for it to be in accordance with the school's constitution. 
Lyons reminded the HPC of the Mara Fox Run on Saturday. The course will be about two and a half miles long. Inter­ested students should sign up in the dining halls beginning to­day. Runners or walkers should meet in the Lyons Hall parking lot between 7:45 a.m.. and 8:00 a.m. on Saturday. 
Keenan Hall announced a de­bate on the "Republican 'Revolution'" between the Col­lege Republicans and the Col­lege Democrats to be held tonight at 9:00 p.m. in Keenan's basement. 
Keenan also announced a trip to see "Miss Saigon" on Sun­day. The entire trip, including a ticket, bus fare, and pizza, will cost $35. Interested stu­dents should call 4-3341 for more information. 
"[The murals] are not great works of art," he said. "Their quality is not high enough for The Snite." 
Also, removing the murals from the Main Building's walls may be too difficult to be realis­tic. "These murals are very much a part of the walls," Porter said. "You'd have to remove the walls to get the paintings off." 
Pascua, recognizing that the likelihood of removing the mu­rals may be low, said NASAND will explore other options. 
"We'd like to see more pro­grams, symposiums, and cours­es on campus that talk about the cultures of Native Americans, African-Americans and other ethnic groups," Pas­cua said. "If the murals can't be removed, we'd like to see the University put artwork on the same floor as the murals that celebrate diversity, as a sort of balance." 
Members of NASAND are scheduled to make a presenta­tion about their cause at today's Student Senate meet­ing, and plan to meet with Porter again early next week. 
Among those also present at Monday's meeting were Doug Bradley, professor of art and an assistant director of The Snite; Chuck Loving, also an assistant director of The Snite; and Steve Moriarty, professor of art. 

Keenan.. ,.Basement 

Russian 
continued from page 3 

Russian government, she becomes emotional. Without an extensive background on Rus­sian politics, it is difficult to grasp her complex speech. However, she makes it clear that she does not like either Yeltsin or Gorbechev. 
"They come from the same turf," Deriglazoua says. "They may preach change, but politi­cal and they are very removed from the people." Deriglazoua gave the example of an elderly couple not having enough money to buy food. The gov­ernment is doing all the wrong things with the money to buy food. It is doing all the wrong things with the money in gen­eral. And although the U.S. system of governme.nt may appear a little bit better, it is till run as an elitist system, as is Russia's, she says. 
In the midst of her transition from Russian to American life, Deriglazoua still enjoys her husband and her six year-old son, who joined her late last year and will stay for one year. Her son is attending Madison Elementary School in South Bend. Deriglazoua has been extremely happy with the school. 
"I like it a lot," she says. "I heard a lot of very good things about it through other interna­tional students. I think that Mr. Garmen, my son's teacher, is very kind, cheerful and pa­tient." She points to Garmen and other teachers like him as an example of something bene­ficial that the U.S. has to offer parents and children. 
However, Deriglazoua be­lieves that students should be privately educated here if they wish to go on to college. She has not heard good things about South Bend's public schools. 
Despite the obstacles she has overcome and the challenges she still faces, Deriglazoua says she is happy that her fam­ily is with her now because she 


Lawsuit 
continued from page 1 
that the lawsuit has yet to reach the University. He offered an explanation for the traffic, say­ing that the county police man­age the flow. No traffic is al­lowed west of Ivy Rd., on Bulla Rd., because the only lots ac­cessible by this route are lots requiring a University sanc­tioned decal. "His [Marozsan] lot cannot handle all the cars that would pass through in the general flow. There is no pub­. lie traffic because, essentially, there is nowhere for it to go," 
said Moore. 
Marozsan is seeking $75,000 
in damages and an additional 
$125,000, in addition to the 
possibility of pauper status to 
waive court fees and for the ap­
pointment of a court lawyer. 
The new filing to add Notre 
Dame as a defendant is still 
pending in the U.S. District 
Court. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 


McNamara visits Vietnam 
By KATHY WILHELM 
Associated Press 

HANOI, Vietnam 
Twenty years after the end of a war he helped escalate and later called a terrible mis­take, former U.S. Defense Secretary Robert McNamara visited the former enemy capi­tal today. 
McNamara arrived in a driv­ing rain at Hanoi's Noi Bai In­ternational Airport and was met by officials of the Foreign Ministry's Institute for International Relations. It was his first visit to Vietnam since the war ended in 1975. "We're here, obviously, for one reason -to see if Vietnam and the United States can draw lessons from what was a tragedy for both sides," McNamara told reporters at his hotel. 
He came as part of a delega­tion from the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations, which is asking Hanoi to collaborate in a high-level conference on the Vietnam War next year. The council hopes to bring together key decision-makers from both sides and exchange national archive documents. 
McNamara, a council mem­ber, will join in presenting the conference proposal to the Vietnamese. 
A meeting is tentatively planned with Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap, architect of Vietnam's victories over France and the United States. 
As secretary of defense under presidents Kennedy and Johnson from 1961-68, McNamara was an ardent public booster of U.S. support for South Vietnam against the Communist North. 



Wednesday, November 8, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

New computer circuit technology developed 
By MATIHEW LOUGHRAN as industrial evolution," said Dr. director of the project, the program that gives the program the 
News Writer Wolfgang Porod, one of the original two The grant was awarded after a ULTRA visibility and prestige it needs to be rec­
theoreticians on the team. conference at which three projects that ognized." 
Ultra small, ultra dense, ultra fast. This grant comes at a pivotal time in were related to Notre Dame were These are all qualities of a new comput­the project. Porod and Doctors Craig unveiled. The $3.45 million that the The grant from ARPA gives Notre er circuit technology now being devel­Lent and Gary Bernstein had been project received will be used for many Dame and the team the access to facili­opnd at the University of Notre Dame. working on this for the last four years. different aspects in the expansion of ties and research that it needs to pro­
A team of engineers has been develop­For three of those four, they have been research. duce the best possible results. Porod de­ing a "quantum dot," a small structure working off a grant by the ARPA to "There is a big payroll portion, for scribed this field as "a small elite group" that can capture an electron, for use in reproduce the quantum dot in gallium graduate students, post-docs, staff tech­that they would not have access to oth­creating computers that run at greater arsenide, which, according to Lent, Js nicians," Merz said. "Also new facilities erwise. The ultimate goal of this speed and with greater power than pre­made out of two atoms instead of one, and equipment, publishing costs, over­research and cooperative work would be viously deemed possible. The dot exists "so it is easier to create the conductors head and physical supplies all will be to "demonstrate the feasibility of the in the realm of quantum physics [in the ways that are necessary for this taken from the grant money." project by building a prototype," Lent because it address the problem of a project." said. However, they do not see that hap­device that is too small to be considered However, the research on the project "All of this is done in the context of a pening in the next fifteen to twenty by classical physics. has been expanded to include creation university," Merz said. "We are conduct­years. 
This team recently received a grant of of a silicon "quantum dot." ing the experiment in an environment The members of the development $3.45 million from the Advanced There are advantages to working in that everyone is excited to be a part of it team include Porod, Lent, Merz, Heseareh Projects Agency for develop­silicon, according to Lent. "The fabrica­but learning at the same time." Some of Bernstein, Dr. Greg Snider, who does ment of this teehnology. The ARPA is a tion facilities already exist for silicon, the grant will go to graduate and under­optical and electrical measurements, division of the Department of Defense and so production would not include graduate research projects dealing with Edward Croke and David Chow of that specializes in long-term experi­tearing down the existing facilities and the quantum dot. Hughes Research Laboratories and ments that in which industry cannot building new ones." "The administration and the Douglas Tougaw, a graduate student in afford to invest. "Silicon may indeed be superior and Department of Engineering have been charge of writing the programs and 
"They see the need for revolutionary gallium arsenide does not match up Willi very helpful," Porod said. "They were making the computer elements more new ways to do things at the same time with silicon," added Dr. James Merz, able to bring someone like Dr. Merz into complex. 
Rabin murderer: Bullets fake 
Student Reading Auditions November lS, 1995 
Student Reading Night is Febmary 13, 1996 (Part of the Sophomore Literary Festival Febmary 10-15, 1996) 
Call Bryce at X1934 by November 10 to set up a11 auditio11 
The Sophomon· Litemry Festiv.1/ is brought to you by SUB 

hurt, he said. 
"We asked him 'Where does it hurt?' and he said, 'In the back.' Then he said suddenly 'not so bad, not so bad,' as if he were worried about us," Damati said. · 
"But as he finished saying 'not so bad,' his head fell ... The bodyguard was screaming at me, 'Drive, drive."' he said. 
Police who whisked Rabin's wife, Leah, from the scene told her he had not been hurt because the gun that was fired was a toy, she said. Only half an hour later, when the prime minister did not join her at police headquarters, did Mrs. Rabin begin to question that account, she said today. 
Damati, who drove for Rabin in his first term in office in 1974-1977, struggled with tears during the interview. Rabin attended Damati's wed­ding and was the godfather of his son. 

Indecisive Po-well searches for 'role' 
By TOM RAUM Several GOP operatives who Associated Press have had conversations with ------------Powell advisers said Tuesday they saw no evidence that PHILADELPHIA Powell was taking the steps 
Retired Gen. Colin Powell they consider necessary to emerged from two weeks in launch a campaign, such as seclusion Tuesday to say that organizing fund-raisers or Americans are "looking for building a campaign frame­r e a I 
work in key states. change" but Powell's potential candidacy that he looms over the Republican hasn't de­field, overshadowing the c i d e d activity of announced GOP whether to candidates. seek the Tuesday's speech was his presidency. first full public appearance 
"I know since he ended his 25-city that there's Powell book tour two weeks ago. a role for "I've been busy, as you've each and every one of us to noticed," he told his audience. play," Powell told an audi­ence of several thousand trav­He preached a message of el agents in a paid speech. national healing and ''I'm searching for the role I reconciliation, saying he was should play." troubled by "the racial divides 
Powell was reported by that exist within our society" aides to close to a decision, and other strains. "We have but he gave few clues about to start thinking as a family his intentions in a speech to again," he said. the American Society of Powell said Americans re­Travel Agents. main uncertain what they 
The retired general has want politically, and demon­indicated he would probably strated that in the 1994 would run as a Republican if congressional elections in he enters the race and has which Republicans gained promised an announcement control of the House and by Thanksgiving. Aides now Senate. expect his decision to come "What we're seeing is you within .a week. are still looking,'' Powell said. 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14 
1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 
Irene Dunn, Allan Jones and Paul Robeson star in 

SHOWBOAT 
directed by James Whale $2 Adults, S1 Students 
A.uociated Pre.. 
JERUSALEM 

The gunman who killed Yitzhak Habin shouted, "It's nothing ... they are not real bul­lets" as he raised his arm to shoot, Rabin's driver said today. 
"As Rabin went down the stairs. I suddenly saw someone to my right raise his arm ... and start shooting," Menachem Damati told Israel's Channel Two television. "He shouted, 'It's nothing, it's nothing. They are not real bullets, they're fake,'" 
Damati did not say if the gun­man's claims confused body­guards, but said he "believed him, wanted to believe him." 
Only later, as he sped toward the hospital with Rabin and his bodyguard did he realize the prime minister was seriously 

AFRICAN AMERICAN 






Yeffows£ip 
WEEKEND 
NOVEMBER 18-19, 1995 PLACE: ANGELA HOUSE in MICHIGAN CITY 
WE WILL LEAVE NOTRE DAME AT 12:45 PM FROM THE LIBRARY CIRCLE ON NOVEMBER 18. WE WILL RETURN AT lOAM ON NOVEMBER 19. FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT TRACEY RANDOLPH AT 634-1675. 
PLEASE BRING A BIBLE 
••1 
!7MIUS 
N1JNISTRY 


Wednesday, November 8, 1995

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Senators seek information Election Waite 
Congressmen: Hearings should describe abortion procedure 
By DIANE DUSTON 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Senators opposed to rushing to a vote against certain late­term abortions want hearings first to get more information about the controversial proce­dure. 
The House has already passed the ban on "partial birth abortions," but senators agreed to vote today on whether to send it to the Judiciary Committee for review. 
Proponents of the bill decried the delay. 
"We could have hearings until hell freezes over. It's not going to change anything," said chief sponsor Sen. Bob Smith, R-N.H. "Delaying this accomplishes nothing except delay." 
"We've had hearings on the House side," said Senate Ma­jority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan. "It's not that complicated." 
Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle. D-S.D., said, however, that the Senate's 46 Democrats 
The bill provides, however, that during court proceedings an acceptable defense would be that the procedure was nec­essary to save the mother's life. 
The measure wouldn't apply to abortions performed by Cae­sarean section or hysterectomy or when the fetus dies before removal through the birth canal. 

The House's 288-139 vote on Nov. 1 marked the first time since the Supreme Court's 1973 Roe vs. Wade abortion ruling that Congress has moved to prohibit a specific abortion procedure. 
The description of the proce­dure causes even abortion rights advocates to cringe, but without it many women could die, say opponents of the bill, who label the legislation as the first step toward an outright ban on abortions. 
"If one believes in God, one believes that God has assured there are medical procedures in place to help save lives," said Sen. Barbara Boxer, D­Calif. If the bill passes, she said, "women will die and they will be our babies that we raised. Are we going to put women to their deaths?" 
Boxer and others say the procedure is rare.. used only when the life of the mother is in grave danger. 
However, in a late second­trimester or third-trimester abortion, the fetus is so large that it cannot always be re­moved vaginally without col­lapsing the skull. 
That is accomplished by sucking out the brains, said Smith, who displayed drawings of the procedure. 
"It makes people uncomfort­able when they hear about it," said Kate Michelman, presi­dent of the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League. "But the issue is, who is· going to make these medical judgments?" 
Such decisions should be left to the doctor and patient, not legislated by Congress, she said. 
continued from page 1 
they will be improved while the city's "strong fiscal responsibili­ty" is maintained. 
Kernan also feels that one of the main challenges for the fu­ture is getting more people in­volved in the decision making process. Turnout for the may­oral election this year was rela­tively low with 17, 415 voters casting their ballots, roughly twenty percent of the popula­tion of South Bend. 
continued from page 1 
I'll probably be working some­where behind the scenes, but I'll have to take a look," he said. 
Much like Kernan, Waite ex­pressed disappointment in the low turnout numbers at the polls. 
He stated, "The only people that lost were those that stayed home." 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323 
A.D.A.M. Standard·Student Edition is your multimedia survival kit for passing 
anatomy. Dissect, identify, study systems and regions. Prepare better, faster. 
Special student price -$149.95 
Visit your college bookstore or call 1-800-322-1377. 
were united in favor of sending  
the bill to committee.  
What's more, the motion to  The Salon of Friendship of the University of Notre Dame, in association with  
do so was being offered by Republican Sen. Arlen Specter  the Pan-African Cultural Center and the Multicultural Executive Council,  
of Pennsylvania.  Presents:  
President Clinton opposes  
the legislation.  INAUGURAL FORUM ON SOCIAL & GENDER ISSUES:  
It would impose a prison  
term of two years and fines on  The UN & the Challenges of Social Inequality: What Strategy of Social Development for what  
any doctor who "partially delivers the living fetus before killing the fetus and complet­ Type of Social Justice'? Reflecting on the Copenhague Declaration and Program of Action of the World Summit for Social Development.  
ing the delivery."  
The doctor also would be li­ Speaker  
able for civil damages if sued  Professor Denis GOULET  
by the woman's family.  TheW. and D. O'Neill Chair, Professor of Economics  
Kellogg Institute Faculty Fellow, Kroc Institute for Peace Studies  
University of Notre Dame  
Discussant:  
Professor Peter Walshe  
Government & International Studies  
Faculty Fellow, Kroc Peace Institute  
University of Notre Dame  
Up Against Discrimination Of Women? The United Nations And The Issues Of Gender  
Discrimination: What Happened at the 4th World Conference On Women in Beijing And What  
To Expect From The Platform of Action Adopted'?  
Honor Guest Speaker:  
Mrs. Kaba DJENEBOU  
Deputy Ambassador  
Charged'Affaires  
Permanent Mission, Repulic of Cote d'Ivoire  
United Nations, New York  
Mrs. KABA was the leading diplomat of the powerful delegation of Cote d'lvoire  
(West Africa) to the World 4th Conference on Women in Beijing in September  
1995 and she coordinated the negotiations on behalf of her country.  
Discussants:  
STEAMBOAT  Professor Ava COLLINS Ms. Diana ZOELLE  
VAIL/BEAVER CREEK  Assistant Dean, College of Arts & Letters Ph. Candidate in Government, Univ. of Maryland  
HILTON HEAD ISLAND  Pre-Law Advisor Visiting Scholar, Kroc Institute  
' Pt:R PERSON OfPENOING 1m OESTINATIOO /BREAK DATES /LENGTH Of STAY.  University of Notre Dame University of Notre Dame  
•~smm~st~·t.~c11.4S·E  
TOLL I115'IE INFOIIW/tTION &. I!ESEWitTIONS OR su• OVEII TO 11U1 WEI SITE AT:  Friday, November 10, 1995:4:00-6: 00 PM, Room 100 Hesburgh International Center  
Exquisite exotic dinner after discussions, Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune. Please make  
Spring Break 1996  reservation for dinner by November 9, 1995 with Paula Shannon at 4-2824.  
TRAVEL FREE!! Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas  Women In Diplomacy: Challenges & Opportunities  
Panama CUy. Daytona. Padre  
*" Great low, low prices ** Free Trip on only 15 sales  Speaker: H. E. Mrs. Djenebou KABA LYONS HALL, Saturday, November 11. 1995: 2:00-4:00 Refreshment will be offered.  
u 1-800-426-771 0  
 



Wednesday, November 8, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page7 


Welfare decision could define Clinton 
By RON FOURNIER 
Auociau:d Press 
WA'IHlNGTON 

With Democrats at each others' throats. welfare over· haul could become the issue that helps solve the most bedeviling puzzle in American politics: What does Blll Clinton stand for? 
And some members of the president's political team are afraid of what the answer might be. 
At issue is a Senate bill that would end tha federal guaran­tee of cash assistance to poor mothers with children, give states block grants to create their own programs, freeze federal welfare spending for five years and require recipi­ents to work after two years. 
Civil rights grc>ups and advo· cates for women and children are pressuring Cllnton to re· verse himself and veto the bill if it emerges from negotiations with the House, which passed a stricter version ofits own. 
Aides say Clinton may yet oppose the Senate measure, though he once declared It "within striking distance" of true welfare reform. 
Clinton's advisers-and Democrats in general -are split. 
The more liberal wing, per· sonified by Deputy White House Chief of Staff Harold l<:kes. is anxious about pres· sure from the left. These aides are pushing Clinton to consid· er opposing the Senate bill ­or at least reject its most oner­ous provisions. 
The more moderate ele· mont. led by consultant Dick Morris. bristles at the thought of Clinton capitulating to Hber· als. The president's embrace of the bill in the first place was part of a Morris-inspired strategy to associate Clinton with centrist views -distanc· ing him from Republicans and Democrats alike. The strategy has helped boost Clinton in the polls. 
This faction also warns that failure to follow through on his 1992 promise to change "welfare as we know it" would hand the GOP a major issue for 1996. 
Amid this latest battle for Clinton's political soul, ob· servers inside and outside the White House say the issue may defme him politically for the 1996 race. 
"When he finally comes down on one side or another, we'll finally know if there's a new Clinton and how much of a transition figure he really ls," Stephen Hess of the Brookings Institute said. 
"This is part of his constant tug of war," said Stuart Rothenberg, publisher of the Rothenberg Political Report. "On one hand, Democrats are saying, 'Prove to us you're a traditional Democrat.' On the other hand, he's given advice to distance himself from both parties." 
When the Senate bill passed in September. the president praised senators for their dis­pllty of "wisdom and courage.·• His remarks were widely interpreted as support for the Senate bill, because he had already promised to veto the House version. 
Then came a characteristic Clinton shift, triggered by in· tense pressure from tradition• al Democratic blocs. 
The alliance of civil rights, women's rights, anti-hunger and children's groups had tried to pressure Clinton qui· etly, realizing that he was unlikely to 'move from his support of the Senate bill if it looked like the shift was forced on him. 


House considers spending 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Republicans in Congress are advancing temporary spending and borrowing bills designed to put the government on a crash diet until President Clinton signs legislation balancing the budget in seven years. 
House Republicans were preparing to act today on a stopgap spending bill that would keep the government running until Dec. 1. But many programs would be financed at only 60 percent of the spending level provided in fiscal year 1995, which ended Sept. 30. The Senate was expected to take up a similar bill Monday. 
Separately, the House Ways and Means Committee overrode unanimous Democratic ob­jections Tuesday and approved, 21-13, legislation extending the government's ability to borrow until Dec. 12. 
If the Republican-led Congress and the president can't agree on budget-balanc­ing legislation by Dec. 12, the debt limit would drop to $4.8 trillion and the administration would be barred from dipping into the government's cash-rich trust funds; such as those for Social Security and federal employees' pensions, to pay unrelated bills. 
Treasury Undersecretary John D. Hawke Jr. said the bill so restricted the administra­tion's financial maneuvering room that his department would urge the president to veto it. 
Democrats said it amounted to blackmailing the president to accept a budget that would squeeze Medicare over seven years by $270 billion and cut taxes for businesses and fami­lies by $245 billion. 
"You are so anxious to pro­tect your crown jewel (the tax cuts) ... that you will jeopardize the full faith and credit of our country." said Rep. Charles Rangel, D-N.Y. 
However, Republicans com­plained Clinton has refused to negotiate with them and they had no other way to force him to take seriously their quest to eliminate annual deficits. 
"We must stop passing our generation's debt onto our chil­dren and grandchildren," said Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas. the Ways and Means chairman. 
The stopgap spending bill, meanwhile, would ban fur­loughs through most of the gov­ernment. But it would eliminate six federal programs, including the Interstate Commerce Commission, and shrink the Bureau of Mines. It also would limit lobbying by private groups that receive federal aid. 
Since fiscal 1995 ended, the government has been operating on a temporary budget of 90 percent of 1995 levels. But that much less restrictive measure expires Monday. 
"President Clinton needs to know that we are firmly com­mitted to a balanced budget," said Rep. Bob Livingston, R-La .. the House Appropriations Committee chairman. 
White House Budget Director Alice Rivlin wrote House and Senate leaders demanding a temporary spending bill' ­"free of extraneous matters." 
Rep. Joseph Moakley of Mas­sachusetts, the senior Demo­crat on the Rules Committee, predicted the add-ons, such as the lobbying limit sponsored by Rep. Ernest Istook, R-Okla.. "will almost certainly doom" the temporary spending bill to a veto. 
But Republicans said they could not line up the votes for the measure without such lan­guage. 
"It will be very, very hard, given the absence of any seri­ous negotiations by the White House ... to go to our members and ask them to increase the debt on our children without putting a down payment to be­gin to solve the problem," House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga.. told reporters. 
The spending bill would also: 
• 
Keep intact the monthly premium Medicare recipients pay for doctors' care, which under current law would drop slightly next year. 

• 
Let Medicare pay for oral hormone treatments for breast and prostate cancers. 


The debt limit bill approved by Ways and Means was ex­pected to reach the floor on Thursday. 
Before it gets there, House conservatives were expected to demand add-ons such as the elimination of the Commerce Department and the restriction of appeals by many criminal defendants. 
Tax aimed at foreign investors 
By CARL HARTMAN 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON An effort to help American farmers when they retire has 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

SUNDAY. NOVEMBER 12. 1995 1 :00 -5:00 PM 
A WORKSHOP FOR COUPLES IN A SERIOUS RELATIONSHIP WHO WANT TO EXPLORE CHOICES AND DECISIONS FOR THE FUTURE INCLUDING THE POSSIBILITY OF MARRIAGE 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: 
•STAGES OF RELATIONSHIPS 

•STEPS IN MAKING HEALTHY DECISIONS 
•MAINTAINING LONG-DISTANCE RELATIONSHIPS 
THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM, BUT... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED... BY FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10 
APPLICATIONS ARE AVAILABLE AT EITHER CAMPUS MINISTRY OFFICE: BADIN HALL OR LIBRARY CONCOURSE 
QUESTIONS? CALL 631-5242 
.. _ 

led to a proposal to place a new years. tax on foreign investors who To offset that revenue loss, sell stock in U.S. companies. Kohl also proposed a 10 per­
Sen. Herb Kohl, D-Wis .. has cent capital gains tax on the introduced a measure to allow profit made by a "foreign per­retiring farmers who sell their son" when that person owns at land to put $500,000 of the least 10 percent of the shares proceeds into a special account in a U.S. business and sells that would be tax-free until the some of them. A "foreign per­money is withdrawn. son" could also be a foreign 
Kohl argued that the uncer­company. tainty of crops from one year to The tax would bring about the next does not allow farmers $1.3 billion to the Treasury to make regular contributions over seven years, Kohl said. into tax-free retirement funds There would be an exception over their working lives, as to the capital gains tax for own­salaried employees can do. ers of stock from countries that 
His idea would cost the Trea­have treaties exempting their sury an estimated $1.2 billion citizens from U.S. taxes on in tax revenues over seven capital gains. 
GMAT· GMAT· GMAT 
Are You Prepared? We Are. 
•Limit 
of 15 Students per Class 

•Free 
Extra Help 

•
The Best Instructors 

•Satisfaction 
Guaranteed 


THE , PRINCETON REVIEW 
Classes begin Dec. 2nd for the Jan. 20, 1996 test. Call today! 
(800) 865-7737 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S . 








VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, November 8, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

John Lucas Managing &litor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News &litor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint &litor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports &litor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent &litor ......................... Krista Nannel}' Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mal}''• &litor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universil}' ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mal}''s College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of th~ majoril}' of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mal}''s Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Norre Dame/Sainr Mal}''s com-
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

USTE:.N, \r: 1 ~ \<NOWN 
1~b. CONSUM~R P~DUCTS SAFETY COMM\5~10~ 1-\f>D AS.W~.l TbAM, I WOULD NE.~t;.R 1-\A'J~ ToRN THAT STUPID LlTTL~ TAG OFF 
TH(; N£.'N MATTRESS... 
Monk Malloy's views on homosexuality: An open book? 
I
f it seemed as if Monk Malloy was strangely mum troversy. Malloy wants gays to use the Campus been open with him. 
during the recent gay controversy, it may simply be Ministry office as their new meeting place, but promis­Furthermore, he wants the church to keep a lid on that he thought he once said quite enough back in es that its staff won't try to convert them once they the number of them allowed in the seminary door. 1981 when he wrote a whole book on the subject -come through the door. (Obvious problem: how can the church pick out the Homosexuality & the Christian way ofLife. Why should the gay students trust him? If Notre gays if they're told to be mum?) On page 350, he says 
The book, which is still on sale at the Hammes book­Dame's president truly believes that counseling can he fears that, if there are too many of them living store, is a scholarly text that comes to some startling change some gays who might other-together they might, believe it or not, conclusions. despite what he claims was extensive wise go to hell, isn't it a sin for his get liquored up one night and ruin 
research, Malloy finds "the absence of a large lesbian campus ministers not to try it? the morals of a community house. subculture" in America. If Malloy only spoke up today, -Malloy, surprise, is in favor of gay He also voices strong opinions: "I suspect that there there's hope he might actually reveal 'Apparently, he rights across the board -in housing is something in the nature of the homosexual a change of heart that breaks with and in the workforce -and wants the
doesn't want sexu­
dynamism which prevents loving fidelity from being an his old views of 1981. Some of the laws struck down that permit integral component of many homosexual unions." In biggest shockers in his book are the ally active gays to get discrimination. the end, he insists that homosexuality isn't compatible breaks he makes with official church into heaven, but he's all But suddenly he's back in his old with the Christian way of life because it "involves the teaching. corner defending Vatican doc­
for letting them live evic­
pursuit of a disvalue." Take his daring trine, "Without doubt, the Judaeo­Does he still believe this today? interpretation of tion-fear free, in their Christian religious tradition has been the world view on homosexuality has those scriptural the source" of those discriminatory
comfy condos before­
changed drastically wince 1981 passages that laws, he admits, but while he wants
'To some extent,

when Malloy wrote those words, fundamentalists hand. So what should the civil ones struck down. he's still even if Rome's view hasn't. Like the Malloy doesn't often use to claim in favor of retaining the religious
gays do about their sex­
Vatican, Malloy argues that homo­that homosexuali­prohibitions that hatched those cruel
seem to mind what the 

sexual love is a mortal sin because it ty is an abomina­uality in his view? civil laws in the first place. isn't natural. scientific community tion: "It is not suf­Apparently, he doesn't want sexu­
Remain celibate, he 
"The evidence against the genes as ficient to point to ally active gays to get into heaven,
thinks. The American 

the cause is strong," he maintains six (or more) texts maintains, but then has­but he's all for letting them live evic­more than a decade before the Psychiatric Association spread throughout tens to add, "by celibate, tion-fear free, in their comfy condos National Institutes of Health in publicly damned the the entire Bible beforehand.
I do not mean sexless,
Bethesda, Maryland would issue the and offer them as So what should gays do about their
practice of using thera­

results of two milestone studies that some kind of friendless or loveless.' sexuality in his view? Remain celi­would clearly argue otherwise. The py to try to alter a per­determinative bate, he maintains, but then hastens new reports' findings pose a question statement which to add, "by celibate, I do not mean
son's sexual inclination, 

Malloy has a responsibility to answer closes the issue sexless, friendless or loveless." now, however: How can he and but Malloy nonetheless forever," he says. But clearly Malloyeuoes mean sex­Rome still claim that gays are hell­encourages some young Other liberal views reveal a well­less or else he's' condoning the commission of a mortal bound if, as it turns out, being gay is intentioned Christian heart, sin, which seems doubtful. The problem with his book really a gift from God? gays and "marginal even if those views come with omi­is that it catches him too often in scores of s·uch 
T
o some extent, Malloy doesn't types" to try it while nous qualifiers: contradictions that are simply at odds with logic. seem to mind what the scientif­-Malloy is actually in favor of Father Malloy presides over the world's foremost ic community thinks. Eleven years ignoring pressures that scrapping the ban against gays in Catholic institution of study, an academic forum that is before he wrote this book, the they'll be considered " the U.S. military, "although it would the ideal place for an open discourse on a thorny American Psychiatric Association still be possible to take sexual pref-church issue. As its leader, that means he could actu­publicly damned the practice of us-erence into account in making ally be leading that debate instead of shrinking from it ing therapy to try to alter a person's assignments," whatever that means. -and perhaps even revising his own views in a world sexual inclination, but on pages 95 and 96 in his book -Gays can be trusted to be teachers. They just can't that is having to do the same as science teaches us all Malloy nonetheless encourages some young gays and be trusted to be near students under the age of 18. more. "marginal types" to try it while ignoring pressures that -Gays can even be priests! "I personally know a Thomas O'Neil is a former editor-in-chief of The they'll be considered " dupes of the psychiatric money­number of exemplary religious who are homosexual," Observer, the author of Sex With God and a profes­grubbers." he says. He just doesn't want gay priests professing sional journalist whose articles have appeared in The 
That view has curious repercussions today con­their sexual nature publicly despite the fact that the New York Times. The Los Angeles Times and TV 
sidering how he's like to resolve the gay-students con-gay priests he considers so exemplary have clearly Guide. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• Dm.lNESBURY 
"&XEMPTION FOR. OIL-Rff!NCR.­
I/3S FROM 7DXI& AIR. :iTAN­
/JARJJ5; BAN ON /55UANc:& CF 
New WATER. Qj}AU7Y §TAN­f}ll/?IJ5,-8ANON Wl57l.ANIJ5 PROTUTION PROGRAM... " 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"What people say behind your back is your standing in the community." 
-Edgar Watson Howe 



VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 8, 1995 page 9 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Clarifying confusions concerning free speech 
Dear Editor: 

In the November 2 issue of The Observer, Kristen Dunne states that William Bennett's criticism of talk shows are against the spirit of the first amend­ment. Dunne believes that the first amendment was intended to protect both the political speech and personal ex­pression. 
Although never explicitly stated, Dunne seems to hold that personal expression ean be restrained if the expression leads to some form of harm. While Dunne does acknowledge that uninformed guest on talk shows may harm themselves, this potential harm can be remedied through pre-appnarance procedures. 


Shn then suggests that since Bennett does not appeal to some potential harm­ing of guests in his attempt to limit per­sonal expression, he may be motivated by his dislike of that type of expression. Dunne then turns her attention to the methods of restraining speech proposed by Bennett. 
Aceording to Dunne, the proper response to speech that is perceived as erroneous or harmful is more speech. Sinee Bennett ealls for the producers of talk shows to monitor the content of their shows. this proposal is equated with a type of censorship. 
Dunne thtm adds that while she is unsure that the producers of talk shows have any responsibility to society. whatev­er responsibility they do have surely does not require them to silenee a speaker or protect a listener from his/her own autonomy and responsibility to make judg­ments eoncerning what is expressed. 
It seems to me that Dunne's piece is fairly typical instance to two confusions concerning free speech and harm. The first confusion is between attempts to bring legal and/or governmental pressure on expression and attempts to bring societal pressure on expression. 
Clearly the framers of the Constitution intended the first amendment to place severe restrictions on the ability of the government to limit the citizen's ability to 11xpress themselves. However, it is not at all clear that thn framers wanted this restriction to extend to private 
Notre Dame should recognize 'Homo-bonding' students 
Dear Editor: "Sex is for the purpose of procreation." Surely you've heard that at least a few times. 
And if you're like me, it's often made you think, "Yes, but..." Beeause, face it. lots of times it just doesn't feel like thal's what it's all about, even when that possibility exists. And what about all those expressions of sexuality in which, for one reason or another, procreation isn't even a possibility? 
Anyway, as my friends and I were reflecting on this, and also on the quandary that "homosexual" activity seems to generate for so many at Notre Dame, we came up with an idea. 
Let's take the statement above literally, "The purpose of sex is procreation." If that's true, then it stands to rea­son that any activity whose purpose is not procreative, and especially if there's not the slightest possibility of it ever being so, can't be sex! And if that's so, then we don't have to get all hung up about it, and life can be a lot less complicated. 
Indeed. in many ways, the activities I'm thinking of are less complicated than "sex.'' 
One need not even consider the "ethical implications" of birth eontrol. for example, to say nothing of abortion! Preventing the potential spread of disease may still be a eoneern, but that's t\ health issue, not a sexual one. 
or enurso this new way of looking at things is going to require u new voeabulary. My gay friend came up, with "bonding," a rather trendy term, 1know, but one which seemed to capture the emotional essence of' why we "Do 
It... 

We could educate the public about "Safe bonding" (laking eare not to confuse il with bondage!) and the potontial risk of BTD's tbondingly-transmitted disease). 
Personally, the thing I like best about this new defini· tion is the solution it provides to the great impasse that has dtWtJioped at Notre Dame over the past year. 
Notre name can recognize it's Homo-bonding students, faeulty, and administrators, and those who want to pro­create can engage in "sex." The latter cun even restrict their activity to within the bonds of holy matrimony if thoy so choose, or if' their religion dictates. Any takers? 
CAROL STUART Graduate Student 

League's various attempts to shame racists and anti-Semites into silence (if not a repudiation of their views) as an instance of the proper use of societal pressure-not an unconstitutional use of governmental censorship. 
The second confusion in Dunne's piece concerns the nature of harm. She seems to hold that since the partic­ipants in talk shows need not be harmed by their appearance on talk shows and people freely choose to watch the talk shows, there is no legiti­mate basis of harm from which to criti­cize talk shows. 
Rather, the criticism must originate from Bennett's mere dislike for the subject matter of talk shows. However, I believe that Bennett's rebuke of talk shows differs in kind from his possible dislike of rocky-road ice cream or asparagus. 
Whatever his reasons for trying to limit a certain type of expression, they could be a bit more substantial than that sort of dislike. It seems to me that Bennett wants to change what is depicted on talk shows because talk shows influence society. 
Talk shows in particular (and the media more generally) depict the world in a certain manner. This depiction has some influence on the development of society. Bennett believes that the 

citizens in the social nlalm. This social realm is where the free-exchange of ideas takes place and where gov­ernmental involvement is severely restricted. 
In this realm it seems perfectly acceptable for a citi­zen to say that someone should not continue their type of speech because that speech is false, harmful, or con­tributes to the formation of society in which people are poorly influenced. 
It is difficult to see how Bennett's attempt to bring social pressure to bear on the producers of talk shows is an advocation of governmental censorship. Rather it is a call to the citizenry to exert their social influence, as consumers of TV and members of a shared commu­nity, over those factors that shape their community. 
For example, I would take the Anti-Defamation 
world of dis-function displayed in talk shows can negatively effect societal development. 
Moreover, this claim is not implausible. For exam­ple, it seems that the media has had a negative impact on women's self-perception as the depiction of female beauty moved from the past's more realistic model to today's surgically attained "waif but busty" model. 
Therefore, while Bennett may be mistaken in holding that talk shows' daily depiction of sexual and familial disfunction harms society or that this effect warrants concerned social action to rectify, he is clearly not advocating unconstitutional censorship. 
PAUL GOMEZ Graduate Student ofPhilosophy 


Dear Editor: 

After reading Mr. Lane's so-called "defense" of Louis Farrakhan in Monday's Observer (Oct. 30, 1995), I felt compelled to respond. Mr. Lane wants the student body to believe that, because of the acts of Mr. Farrakhan has done in the inner city, along with the supposedly distorted view given him by the media, he is not the "evil" man he is made out to be. I think that Mr. Lane needs to take a bigger view of the picture. 
After writing about how he (Mr. Lane) has seen the rise of Farrakhan and how he has reached out to black people, Mr. Lane gets to what I consider to be the heart of his letter. Be begins by stating: "Other than claim that Asians and Jews are 'blood-suckers' of the black community, what else has the 'man' done?" 
Later, he says that Farrakhan's "prime objective has nothing to do with hate." Is Mr. Lane really that ignorant? Are we supposed to simply overlook these "minor transgressions" by Farrakhan? Does Mr. Lane think that the Notre Dame student body is real­ly clueless? The "man" is a racist, a bigot, and a separatist. 
If Mark Furman, for example, had contributed to the rebuilding of his community, does that mean we should ignore his racist comments? Farrakhan's so­called tangible accomplishments cannot, and should not, be used as a smoke-screen for his true beliefs. 
Mr. Land then derides both the press for its hypo­critical approach towards Farrakhan, and the public for believing the press. What, however, has 
Farrakhan done to make us believe the press is 
wrong? 
Farrakhan has made racist statements; Mr. Lane 
tacitly acknowledges this fact in his letter. However, ·the fact that the press reports them does make them the problem. Farrakhan has never claimed to be misquoted, just misunderstood. I low hard is it to 
misunderstand the filth that comes from his lips? 
Mr. Lane challenges us to find any untruthful 
statements in the speech given by Farrakhan during 
the Million Man March. Even if Farrakhan said 
nothing wrong, that does not absolve him of his 
prior acts and statements. Even if David Duke (a 
former Grand Wizard of the KKK) made some 
speeches in which he cleaned up his language-dons 
that make him less of a racist'! 
Mr. Lane says people want to ignore Farrakhan 
because he speaks the truth. Bather, people ignore 
Farrakhan because they reject, and rightly so, the 
ideals he puts forth and the radst ideology he sup­
ports. 
Mr. Lane concludes that he would not be foolish 
enough to say that Farrakhan's ideology has no 
flaws. He also states that the public needs to look at 
the "true" man before condemning him. 
Instead, I think it is Mr. Lane who needs to 
reassess his view. Although we cannot call Mr. Lane 
a fool for stating that Farrakhan's ideology is per­
fect, we can certainly say he is foolish for believing 
in it. 
MATT SCHECHTER 
Graduate Student 


:ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, November 8, 1995 

By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON claims them to be completely Throughout my day at Saint dent body. It's obviously un­!I 
E
Assistant Accent Editor untrue, I agree with national Mary's, I kept waiting to see fair to inflict general deroga­studies that repeatedly show girls who had just rolled out tory remarks upon the Saint very Notre Dame stu­that in coed learning en­of bed, and who didn't care Mary's student body as a dent has heard of a vironments, males dominate what they looked like or said whole, even if certain individ­
harmony, Assistan!

"Smick Chick." And I'd the classroom. Even if most or ate because there were no uals have earned them. venture to say that, at one students don't notice this, the guys on campus. I realized If any Notre Dame student time or another, some have dynamic is there. Instead of the mistake in my logic. Just doesn't know a soul from even made a few comments at the open discussion I antici­as men don't dictate the way Saint Mary's, I encourage their expense. I'll admit that I pated, I witnessed a few I act, the same holds true for them to find one and intro­had, even though until recent­select female students monop­the women of Saint Mary's. duce themselves, or take the ly I had never really met one. olize discussion. Overall We all, for the most part. do free shuttle and go check out I pride myself on my open though, the atmosphere what we do to please our­the campus. It's beautiful. mind and lack of prejudice, seemed comfortable and selves. For every girl I saw Don't get me wrong though, but here I was, making judg­relaxed, and I was impressed. with sweats and no make-up, I'm not ready to transfer. ments about a group of After class. I snuck into the I saw five times as many who Actually, my future visits will women I had never interacted dining hall. Wow, talk about looked really nice. They can­probably be few, but for con­with. I can't remember the a different experience. There not be stereotyped as easy or venience sake and not last time I did make one of was no yelling or constant less intelligent than a Notre because of personal disdain. those comments, but I know noise. I didn't have to fight Dame student. No Saint No one was less than nice to that my ignorance concerning for my food or my table. I Mary's girl I have ever met me during my day at Saint Saint Mary's remained. So I didn't have to use search comes across that way. Saint Mary's, and my greatest hope resolved to do something lights or binoculars to find the Mary's students did not is that if any of the Saint about it. Last week, I was a people with whom I was sit­choose their school because Mary's students I met felt Belle for a day. ting. The room looked like a they want to pretend they go defensive towards Notre 
As I pondered what the day huge restaurant, with round to Notre Dame, they go there Dame girls before. they feel had in store, I also wondered tables and even a smoking because they wanted a small, less so after meeting me. I what I should look like. section. If all of this wasn't women's college where they have made a close friend from Knowing that I wouldn't see a enough to make a Notre could be themselves. They Saint Mary's, something I 
campuses

guy all day made me think Dame student jealous, the date Notre Dame guys for the never would have imagined twice about wearing anything food was good and the frozen same reasons Notre Dame last year. Not to say the that wasn't sweatshirt materi­yogurt was incredible. There women do, and are undeserv­girls from Saint Mary's are al, but remembering I was a weren't as many types of food representative of my universi­offered as there are at Notre ty, a kind of Notre Dame Dame, but enough to ensure diplomat, I decided to wear a my contentment. I sat down. skirt anyway. Convinced I'd ready to chow, as my Saint miss the bus because I had Mary's friends informed me of lost my shuttle schedule, I ran how many SMC students frantically to library circle worry about what they eat. only to find it waiting for me. As the type of person who Ten minutes later I got off at pigs out at every meal and Madeleva, the building that doesn't care who watches, I contains more than half of thought the absence of men Saint Mary's classes. would encourage others to do 
Fortunate to attend a class so, as well. Instead. girls ate in my major, the 45 minutes I salad and needed to share spent listening to a seemingly their plates of fries. With eccentric English professor such a glorious freedom to proved as interesting as a feast, I was disappointed class can be when it's not one more Saint Mary's students of your own. I had expected a dido't seem to take advantage female professor and I got of this opportunity, and wor­one; she was brilliant. She ried that some very serious didn't lecture, she shared, eating disorders were the rea­passing around pictures to son why. enhance the medieval litera­Touring through the dorms ture they were discussing. was another jealousy-invok­The class, apparently the typi­ing experience. Hard-wood cal Saint Mary's set-up, had floors, elegant lounges and about fifteen people and high ceilings made LeMans desks arranged in a circle to and Holy Cross two of the promote discussion, quite un­nicest buildings on campus. like the typical rows of desks I Gardens and small lakes have grown accustomed to added an ascetic quality to over the last two years. I campus. and small guest thought the major benefit of houses were enchanting. attending a female institution Dalloway's coffee house would be a lack of intellectual seemed like a very cool place inhibition, and imagined to hang out at night, and every student participating although the library was rela­equally and unreservedly. tively small, it seemed like a However much any woman nice place to study. 
ing of any negative reputa­saints. Not even close. But tions that surround the stu-then again, none of us are. 
... And From the M~ 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST The stereotypes that each side has for each Associate News Editor other have been going around ever since Notre Dame accepted women in the early 1970s. out a year ago, I was walking with two According to the talk. Saint Mary's women go emale friends from Notre Dame outside there because they don't have the intelligence to 
ieuwland Science Hall when we saw a get into Notre Dame, and they come to South small sedan drive by us on its way to LaFortune. Bend looking not for a BA. but for an MRS. Notre All three of us noticed the car's Illinois license Dame women are here to study, and social life be plate, which read "SMC-ND 98." Upon reading the damned; they're "here for the books and not their plate, one of my friends turned to the other and looks." said, "You know, it bothers me that those girls That these perceptions persist is unfortunate. think that they are a part of Notre Dame just because as a Notre Dame guy who has friends on because they go to Saint Mary's." both sides of U.S. 31, I know that they do not 
Of course Saint Mary's is an independent institu­come close to characterizing either student bod­tion. The instruction there is completely geared ies. toward the liberal arts. the college focuses on The primary cause for the stereotypes and ten­developing confident, educated women, and the sions between students from both schools is that emphasis on intercollegiate sports is on an entire­neither side sees much of each other during the ly different level than it is across the highway. weekdays. Granted, the women of Notre Dame But despite what my friend's comment implied. and Saint Mary's have no obvious opportunity for that does not make the school any bit inferior to interacting with one another, but for the guys, Notre Dame. At the same time, Notre Dame offers who do have an obvious reason, it is not that opportunities that Saint Mary's could never offer. much easier. especially at the beginning. A wider variety of classes, a seemingly endless list Unless a freshman guy already knows a girl at of extracurricular activities, and a national repu­Saint Mary's, finding a date for his dorm's dance tation are all available because of a bigger student is made more convenient when he asks a woman body. Certainly, the schools are very different. from Notre Dame, simply because he can find a 
But while the institutions are different, the stu­date through friends, who most likely know only dents from each school are essentially similar. Notre Dame women. But when a guy is asked to 
Wednesday, November 8, 1995 ACCENT page 11 ­

By ANGIE KELVER It really wasn't until recently Saint Mary's Accent Editor that I ever gave the matter any
promote 
D
heavy thought. Why does this on't believe everything conflict exist? I assumed, safe­you hear. This is a piece ly, I believe, that this sort of of advice that is time­thing is talked about on both worn, well-intended and at the sides of US Highway 31. So ifnand Angie 
same time, very difficult to fol­everyone talks about it, yet no low. one will readily admit it, what 
Accent Editors:,; 
From the moment I set foot do we do about it? The answer on the Saint Mary's campus. I is simple. Of course, we write would catch whispered conver­about it. 
d a switch. 
inga Domer 
sations, occasional off-color My trip over to Notre Dame remarks and warnings about was slightly different than
rience Saint 
the women across the street. Ashleigh's trip to Saint Mary's. Without going into specifics, Obviously, I have taken theie took her let's just say that from this, I shuttle numerous times, in fact, got the idea there was some more than I like to sit down and sort of conflict between the reminisce about. I know the
me. Their women of Saint Mary's and campus pretty well. Notre Dame. So, I'm not going I have never been to a class 
s, the dining to lie to you (after all, my moth­there though somewhere I had er reads this paper) and I am picked up some pretty definitive going to come right out and ideas of what a class is like.
neral show 
admit that I have indulged in First of all, there would be boys trash-talking on a few occa­in it.
hen the two 
sions. Sue me. This may sound like a silly Seriously, it never really observation, but when you 
occurred to me (but does it attend an all-women's college,
llide. 
ever?) that I had absolutely no you forget exactly what it is like basis for my attitude, having to have guys in your classroom. never had the occasion to Except for a few sprinklings become friends with a woman here and there, the majority of from Notre Dame. my classes are completely 
e Point of View ... 
o with a blind date to a Saint Mary's dance, the tuation is much more awkward. Herewith is the pical scene leading up to a Saint Mary's dance: 
It's a Friday night and, down in the lobbies of e dorms at Saint Mary's, young men, fresh off e shuttle from Notre Dame, are waiting to meet 'ir dates for that night's dances. lfost are freshmen, some are sophomores, but 11.rly all of them are wearing a navy blazer and 11.ki pants. One more item that all of them have common: they don't know anything about their tes. 
n defCJrencfl to the Saint Mary's tradition in tich gentlemen must be escorted in the dorms at 
times, thll guys linll up one after another to use 1 lorw phone at the front desk to let their dates :>w that they'v!l arrived. Uh, this is Kevin. Is... ," the guy on the phone USilS to check the slip of paper with his date's me written on it, "...Mary there?" ro the side, anothllr guy, having completely for­tten his date's phone number. fumbles through 
e pages of the directory. "Let's see...," he says 
himself. ''I'm pretty sure her last name started lth an 'M' ... Or was it an 'N'...?" From this apprehension and anxiety , this chaos nd eonfusion, expecting an evening in which two 
eople !{et to know each other well enough for to be interested in seeing each other again is usually unrealistic, especially when the night begins with a lot of alcohol. The issue is com­pounded by the fact that because nearly all Notre Dame students don't see Saint Mary's students in class, the only impression each side gets of one another comes from the party and dance scenes. Consequently, the impressions are only one dimensional. 
If a Notre Dame woman attended a class at Saint Mary's, she would see that the women there offer incredible and profound insights, as I've found in my conversations with my friends from Saint Mary's. 
If a Saint Mary's student took the time to listen to the stories told over lunch and dinner at North and South Dining Halls, she would see that Notre Dame women are very much outgoing and do indeed have a social life. 
And as for the stereotype that Notre Dame women are not good-looking... well, you'll never hear me complain about the beauty on campus. 
What it all comes down to is that I value the friendships I have with women on both campuses; they are just as integral to my college education as my classes. For someone, whether male or female, whether at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, to let unfounded perceptions prevent that person from developing that part of his or her education would be a shame. 

male-free. So, in preparing for my first trip to a Notre Dame classroom experience, my im­mediate thought was "Geez, I'm going to have to take a shower and put lipstick on." Okay, don't get me wrong. Many women at Saint Mary's do this everyday. In fact, I would say the majority do. I just happen to be a part of the minority. 
Boys aside, I pictured the Notre Dame classroom to be a pretty sobering place. I imag­ined straight rows of chairs, students sitting up straight, with a dynamic professor who shouts and swings his arms around a lot. 
I also expected little or no classroom interaction and no discussion amongst students. In fact, I sort of pictured the students to be spitting at each other when backs were turned, maybe sabotaging each others' projects late at night. Okay, that was probably a slight exag­geration on my part. 
The actual classroom was not quite as I had expected. There were straight rows of chairs, and out of thirty students, about half were male. The pro­fessor was· first and foremost a lecturer and he seemed to be on a bit of a caffeine high. He did ask some questions. and there was a little more profes­sor-student interaction than I had expected. But it was most­ly a lecture with a lot of note­taking. Also, there was not a lot of excitement from the stu­dents. 
I feel hesitant about making any kind of judgement about that issue for two reasons. One, on a scale of excitement, medieval literature hovers somewhere between watching paint dry and eating rice cakes. Two, the class began at 4:15 
p.m. and ran until 5:30 p.m. This is either prime napping or chowing time. The last place a student wants to be is in the classroom. So, I cannot make an accurate judgement based on these factors. All in all, it was no better or worse than what I am used to, just differ­ent. Number one mystery solved. Just call me Nancy Drew. 
As we ventured to the North Dining Hall after class, I started to become slightly frightened. Ashleigh had already informed me to expect something similar to a cattle stampede, and since I had forgotten my spurs (don't you hate that?) I was a little ap­prehensive. I knew I would like the food since I am not exactly what you would call a finicky eater. But, huge swarms of people frighten me. I envi­sioned some big, hairy guy shoving me to the ground when I tried to take the last chimichanga. 
In actuality, eating was a pleasant experience. The food was okay for me (I didn't really have any doubts) and there were a lot of different things from which to choose. Also, I liked the atmosphere. I know it sounds silly, but there were a lot of people around and its very bright and colorful in there and I have to say, I felt kind of festive. Yes, I know its a dining hall. Please just let me have my moment. Thanks. 
I accompanied Ashleigh back to her dorm, in order to see what a Notre Dame women's dorm is like. Please don't get me wrong, its not like I have ever seen a Notre Dame man's dorm, in fact, maybe that could be my next assignment. Anyway, her dorm was very nice, and a lot more modern than where I live. There was a kitchen, a very beautiful chapel, and an exercise room, which I am sure is really great for those people who do that sort of thing. 
It was when we settled down for a chat in Ashleigh's room that we really began to reflect about what we had experi­enced. I had begun to realize that a lot of the supposed ani­mosity between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women is imagined. 
I suppose it all starts with a germ of truth, because sadly enough, for however close females can be with each other, we are also skilled at being catty and competitive if it suits us. But, I really believe that this so-called war is pure fiction and embellished as time goes by. 
I do not really know if Ashleigh and I accomplished anything for the greater good of both campuses. I know that I have reformed, and will keep an open mind and a closed mouth from now on. 
My only advice to you is this: Please try not to believe every­thing you hear. Investigate for 
yourself.  Open up.  It really  
can't hurt, can  it?  Plus, you  
may be surprised.  You may  

just find that it was worth the trouble. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 8, 1995 
• Cou.EGE FmlTBAU.

-
Hurricanes find former skiing champ can block too 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
CORAL GABLES, Fla. 
When the Miami Hurricanes needed reinforcements for an offensive line depleted by injuries, they turned to a for­mer snow-skiing champion from Quebec. 
Richard Mercier can tackle a slippery slope or block a slip­pery tackle. He's the first true freshman to start in the Hurricanes' offensive line since 1981. 
"It baffles me," coach Butch Davis said. "If you'd have told me we would start a true fresh­man from Canada, a snow skier, I'd have laughed. 
"He's remarkable. He's an excellent athlete, as you can tell from the things he's done before he was a football play­er." 
Mercier will make his seventh consecutive start at guard Saturday when Miami (5-3) plays at Boston College (3-6). Both teams are 3-1 in the Big East Conference. 
Before this season, Mercier's foremost accomplishment as an athlete was a fifth-place finish in acrobatic skiing at the Canadian Junior National Championship. 
That was four years ago. when a 16-year-old Mercier outweighed his competitors by 100 pounds. 

"Most of the people I used to ski with were about 5-7 and 150," he said. 
Mercier is now 6-foot-4 and 274 pounds, big enough to catch the Hurricanes' eye ­even from 1,500 miles away in Montreal. It helped that he sent films of his games at a Quebec prep school to former Miami coach Dennis Erickson's staff. 
Mercier had never lived south of the Canadian border. but he liked the Hurricanes because his cousin lives near the cam­pus and is a member of their booster club. Mercier enrolled in January. and when injuries sidelined several veteran line­men early this season, he became one of four true fresh­men in Miami's starting lineup. 
Like many of his young team­mates, Mercier seems undis­turbed about the Hurricanes' sub-par season or looming NCAA probation. He's having fun anyway. 
"When you're playing high school football and you look at these big college games, it's overwhelming," Mercier said. "You can't picture yourself there. Now it's not even a year later and I'm in the spotlight. I'm doing it. It's hard to com­prehend." 
Mercier may be a fixture in the lineup through 1998. Davis said his freshman lineman plays with rare intelligence and enthusiasm. 
"He reminds me of the car­toon character in Peanuts, Pig Pen," Davis said. "Three min­utes into the game, he's as dirty as you can be. He's all over the ground fighting, clawing and scratching. 
"And he has barely scratched the surface. Give him three more years to go in that weight room, and he's going to be a good player." 
In other words, it should all be downhill from here. 
Skiing is now just an off-sea­son hobby for Mercier. who took up the sport at age 9, quickly became accomplished and joined an acrobatic club. He skied up to 80 times a year and became one of Canada's best juniors. · 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

AuDITIONS!aUditions!AuDITIONS!  FALL FESTIVAL 1995 is this  Jimmy Carter.  
NOTICES  TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  The Cavanaugh Hall Players presents:  Saturday, November 11. Come join us and work with the  I like Burger King cause they have free reTILLs. -Stephen Douglas  
basic conversational English in  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ Later Life by A.A. Gurney  residents of the Northeast  
For more information and assis­ Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  Open auditions: 11/8 and 11/9  Neighborhood. BARBECUE  B.K.A.,  
tance regarding the investigation of  teaching background or Asian lan­ 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­ Time: 7-10 p.m.  WILL FOLLOW. Vans begin  Ever try TILLamook cheese with a  
financing. business opportunities  guages required. For information  9487  Place: Cavanaugh Hall basement  leilving Main Circle at 9:00 a.m.  bottle of Henry. It kicks ass man.  
and work-at-home opportunities.  call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  Questions or cannot attend call:  and will return starting at 12:00  -Lance  
The Observer urges its readers to  Mark (4-1212) or Andrew (4-3584)  p.m.  
contact the Better Business Bureau  3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE  AuDITIONS!aUditions!AuDITIONS!  Big Unit,  
of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd.,  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ WALK TO NO GOOD AREA  Get in there you big furry call I don't  I like cheese sandwiches with a big,  
Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  2773097  Thirteen days until The Ghost of  care what you srnelll Get in there  juicy TILL pickle to boot. -The Kid  
4200; or call the BBB at219/277­ Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  TomJoad  and don't worry about it.  
9121 or 800/439-5313.  month. Room and Board!  Comfortable 2 Bdrm home. 1 mi. to  Wonderful girl! Either I'm going to  Anderson,  
Transporation! Male or Female. No  campus. $450/mo. Call Chuck  Now I know your momma she don't  kill her or I'm beginning_ to like her.  Take col those cowboy boots and  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  experience necessary. Call  Majcher at 273-0860.  like me cause I play in a rock and  Get in there!  trun down that cowboy music. It's  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  (206)545-4155 extA55842  roll band  not exactly a breeze living with a  
$27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  And I know your daddy he don't dig  Oh! The garbage chute was a really  goshdarn TILLbily. -Prancer  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  HOME FOR  me but he never understand  wonderful idea. What an incredible  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 121151  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  Pappa lowered the boom, locked  smell you've discovered! Let's get  Basketball Thurs. for any Morrissey  
Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ Seasonal & full-time employment  TO CAMPUS.  you in your room, I'm coming to  out of here! Get away from there ...  boys who feel they are tough  
6386  available at National Parks, Forests  CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  lend a hand  No! wait!  enough to take on the Farley girls!  
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  PM  I'm coming to liberate you, confis­ Will you forget it? I already tried it.  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  & ASK FOR SANDY.  cate you I want to be your man  It's magnetically sealed! Put that  Hey Rosemary-Southern chick,  
Spring Break! Panama City! Early  N55842  Someday we'll look back on this  thing away! You're going to get us  who is in the----HOUSE?  
Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  Need 1 roommate now & 1 more  and it will all seem funny  all killed.  
With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  French couple (30 y. old) looking  next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­ but now your sad, your momma's  Absolutely, Your Worship. Look, I  Help- 
Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach  for English lessons at our home to  2366  mad and your pappa says he  had everything under control until  The wild, wild Weasel basketball  
Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21  prepare GMAT. Good English, and  knows that I don't have any money  you led us down here. You know,  team is looking for an experienced  
& 121151 1-800-678-6386  notions of teaching required. Call  6 BDRM HOME NEAR ND. NEXT  it's not going to take them long to  coach or coaches to give us some  
a.s.a.p. (219) 273-58-48 Granger.  FALL.272-6306  Bow wow wow yippee yo yippee  figure out what happened to us.  tips on ball handling, quick drives  
yeah,  It could be worse ...  up the middle, and good scoring  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  T  The sounds of Michelle bring us to  It's worse.  techniques. Call X1825 if you can  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  HE STUDENT UNION BOARD IS  SUBLEASE Turtle Creek single  another day!  help us out.  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR  call Dan 2732769  HAPPY B-DAY RED DOG!  (Hey, to be perfectly honest, I don't  
Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  THE CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT  Have a wonderful 19th (or 133rd in  care if you really like us or not.)  Molly.  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ COMMISSIONER, QUES­TIONS???CALL 1-7757, OR STOP  FOR SALE  doggy years)! -CBS  ()()() coffeEHouse ()()()  I'll keep your hands warm until you locate J. Crew.  
6386  BY 201 LAFORTUNE FOR AN  Come to the LaFun Ballroom  
APPLICATION  ND Ski Team T-Shirtsl ..................... . . ... . ... .... -........... -..  Student Art Work is still being accepted for the Annual Student  Wednesday night for SUB's Open Mike. Enjoy munchies and  Kate, I know you miss the cross-country  
WEEKLY MIDWAY TAVERN  need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­ Really cool and only $10!  Art Show. Entries must be  java while listening to fellow  team.  
810W4TH MISH.  4569monique  Call Potter @ 232-2955 todaylll  submitted to Student Activities,  students read their stuff.  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30  315 LaFortune by  9-11pm, Nov. 8  Wild one,  
WED OPEN MIKE/JAM 9:00  $35.000NR. INCOME potential.  Great for you, your roomie, or  FRIDAY, NOV. 10.  ()()() cOffeehOuse ()()()  Mom always did want an architect  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  Reading books. Toll Free 1-800­ Christmas presents!  Any questions, all 631-7308.  in the family.  
2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR  898-9778 Ext. R-2013 for details.  Hey Bruno, Thanks for the memo­ 
255-0458 NEED ID  Elect guitar perfect cond $225 obo  Discover the roots of the  ries.  If I find the person taking Beth  
TUTOR FOR HIGH SCHOOL  amp free 273-5380  Gay/Lesbian Civil Rights Movement  Skalicky to the Stanford dance,  
SPANISH. CALL HANHPHAM 277­ Kesswhack, you are going to the  there's going to be trouble.  
Wanted!! Individuals, Student Organizations  5474. ALSO, TUTOR FOR SCHEME COMPUTER PROGRAM  TICKETS  FREE showing of "OUTRAGE '69" TONIGHT at 7:30 pm in 117  dance  You mean Beth Skalicky is going to  
to Promote  (MAC).  DeBartolo.  the Stanford SYR and I'm not. Oh  
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  NAVY TIX NEEDED  86 days until Punxsutawney Phil  brother, how•depresing. -Crazy  
FREE TRIPS  CALLx0733  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ rears his old noggin once again,  
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ BASKETBALL COACH responsible  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ and we'll be there to cheer him on  "Ha Ha Ha, Crazy, I'm going to the  
'  GRAMS • http://www.icpt.com  , dependable, student/grad to coach 5th-6th grade basketball team Nov­ PERSONAL  born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security.  once again.  dance. Suck it." -Andy  
1-800-327-6013  Feb for south side elementary  Hollywood Hills home has large  What's up with all the DiCocco's  You mean Andy's going to the  
school, located near Scottsdale  back yard and loving dog. Call  shirts around campus anyway?  dance. Oh brother, how depress- 
Traveling east on Rt80/Pa TP past  Mall on Miami Street. Must be avail­ 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  ing. -Crazy  
Susqu. River for xmas, I need a  able for practice Mon-Thurs from  LaFortune Student Center  Confidential.  Great job Stanford football and let's  
ride-Call Jared@ X0508  1 :30-2:30. Game schedule varies  We're open for your convenience!!!  hear it for the boxman, turning flips  You mean Crazy takes up all this  
ILOST & FOUND I  with games beginning alter school at 4:00, 5:00, or 6:00pm. Paid posi­tion. Call291-4200 or 291-8731to  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat: Noon -6:00pm  ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN HEARING MORE?? Warm, professional Indiana couple.  to throw off the punter. Was that really Bill Walton at Senior  space in the personals wasting other's time. Oh brother, how depressing. -Crazy  
apply.  Sun.: Noon-Midnight  lots of experience with children,  Bar last Tuesday?  
FOUND: port. CD player  would love to talk to you about what  Dear Kate,  
Call Peter @ 4-3671  Wanted: Used MS-DOS Laptop 386  (closed home football Saturdays)  we can offer your precious child.  "We love shooting it all over our  you've been really courageous  
Please Describe  or 296. Alonso 1-6982.  Stability, nurturing, love of learning,  opponents, especially in 429 P.W.,  lately, take the next step, or we'll  
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  travel, lots of extended family, and  Saturday nights." -Dam & Scull  whip out the steak knives!  
••••• LOST ••••  Wanted: Used MS-DOS Laptop 386  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLYl!l  full-time mom are just some of the  
SMALL GOLD HOOP  or 296. Alonso 1-6982.  THE COPY SHOP  things that your child would experi­ Colleen-don't be surprised if i throw  
EARRING  LaFortune Student Center  ence in our home. Interested in  Andy,  love and hate colliding right out the  
CALL 3709  Phone 631-COPY  hearing more? CALL US (day or  Nice to see you again. TILL we  window ...  
BASS PLAYER WANTED  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  night). Expenses paid. Theresa &  meet again. -Frenchy  and I still don't care if there's a fire!  
WANTED  call P. O'Connor-P.Cassidy 2344205 2773201, Thanks  1-80 is damn boring!!l!-which is  Lee 1-800-600-8428.  Anderson.  Hooray Erin!! I!!  
why I'd like some company when I  $5.50 HAIRCUT  Did you hear the new Alanis  You finally learned how to write  
• • • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • •  Looking for ride! Oakbrk!W Chicago  drive home to Fairfield County  Morissette album "Jagged Little  papers -at the last moment!!!  
Find out how hundreds of students  suburbs 11/11 &/or back to ND  Connecticut for Xmas .... if you're  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  TILL"? -Chet  
..  are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with  11/12 Nicki x4803  interested and can drive stick call Dave at 4-1216 or 1-5323.  1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST  Brian,  Josh -How's your pumpkin?  
America's #1 Spring Break compa­ Desperate student needs car  233-4767  Don't g1ve up yet. Where there's a  Iowa Iowa Iowa Iowa Iowa Iowa  
ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!  $100 for use of vehicle from  ELSIE'S PROMISE  TILL there's a way. -Boxman  Iowa Iowa Iowa Iowa Iowa Iowa  
Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  Fri 11/17-Sun 11/19  Wed. Nov 8 Bridget's  Now go away or I shall taunt you a  
Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW!  call Dave 3313  second time.  Twinkie-Boy,  Dave, Its been bad ...very bad.  
TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ ATTENTION  I'll be there for you TILL death do  
EL (800)95-BREAK!  FOR RENT  GAY,LESBIAN,BISEXUAL, or CURIOUS Students/Faculty/Staff of  ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your  us part. -Mike D.  Tweedle-dumb loves tweedle-dee  
ND/SMC/HCC. Student run support  baby. Happily married, financially  Fat ass,  Out, out brief candle. Life is but a  
Roomate needed for 2nd sem.  group meeting. THURSDAY, Nov  secure couple will give much love.  ... And then the little duck tells the  walking shadow. Some poor player  
Male Grad. stu. pref. Nice 2br apt.  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND  9th at7:30 pm. Call287-6665 for  Expenses paid. Call Margaret or  waiter-"Hey, just put it on my  that struts and frets his hour upon  
near campus $280/mo. 277-3107  232-2595  location.  Peter at 800-529-8386.  TILL!" -Howie Mandel  the stage and then is heard no  
more.  

~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------, 
Wednesday, November 8, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• BASEBALL 

Pirates' search nearing an end Devils to remain in 
By ALAN ROBINSON This is what the (Pirates') own­be in place within four years, Associated Press ers requested, and if they with construction to begin in 
Jersey for 12 years
accept it, we'll pay the deposit five years. PITTSBURGH and be on our way." However, major league base­
Tho Pittsburgh Pirates' 15­month search for new owners neared an end Tuesday when major league baseball's owner­ship committee authorized Kevin McClatchy's purchase of the money-losing team. 
"We're exeited because we ean soon quit worrying about working to get the deal done and start worrying about the l'iratns and their fans," MeClatehy said. 
The Pirates' owners will vote Wednesday on the $85 million buyout. and ratification is almost a eertainty as live of the I 0 owners have joined McClatchy's group. If the own­ors aecnpt, McClatchy would· sign a final purchase agree­ment and post the remaining $2 million of his $3 million down payment. 
"We're in good shape," MeCiatchy said following an afternoon-long wait to learn the eommittee's decision. "It was a nerve-wraeking day, but we're excited baseball accepted our preclosing escrow agreement. 
Ten of the 14 National League owners and eight of the 14 AL owners still must ratify the sale, with a vote expected at a January meeting. But the own­ership committee's approval often is the key hurdle in any franchise sale. 
NL president Len Coleman, who has supported McClatchy throughout his pursuit of the 109-year-old Pirates, issued this statement following the afternoon conference call by the eight-member committee: 
"The ownership committee has authorized the Pittsburgh Pirates to enter into a preclos­ing escrow agreement with Kevin McClatehy. Major league baseball still reserves the right to approve or disapprove the final terms of the transaction." 
Coleman's statement did not address baseball's biggest con­cern about the Pirates' sale: the time line for a new, baseball­only stadium. McClatchy's sta­dium lease promises that financing for the ballpark will 


University of Notre Dame International Study Program In 
INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
INFORMATION MEETING "Student Life in Innsbruck" With Professor Marie -Antoinette Kremet 
Wednesday November 8, 1995 4:30pm 114 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 
ball, fearful the Pirates will continue heeding millions in Three Rivers Stadium, want a quicker timetable -two years for financing and two more for construction. 
That time frame would allow McClatchy to begin selling luxu­ry suites and advertising space within two years to raise much­needed revenue. 
Pittsburgh mayor Tom Murphy, who talked several times last week with major league attorneys, apparently is agreeable to a compromise. 
"There's time to get this straightened out," McClatchy said. 
In all, 12 investors have pledged more than $40 million in cash, including McClatchy's own $10 million stake. He also has a $30 million line of credit from Integra Bank and Provident Bank. McClatchy also gained an additional $12.5 mil­lion in escrow when the five current owners agreed to stay; he must buy out the other five owners' shares at $2.5 million apiece. 
"We knew put a good pack­age together, and we were hopeful baseball would see it as a good package," McClatchy said. "Now we have that worry out of our way. I think baseball must be congratulated, too, for working closely with us on this and keeping us informed where we needed to be." 
The current owners, who purchased the team for $22.5 million from former owner John Galbreath in 1985, put the Pirates up for sale in August 1994 -only a week before a 7 1/2-month players' strike shut down the season. 

By JEFFREY GOLD 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
After threats to move and months of negotiations, the Devils made it official Tuesday -they are staying in New Jersey for at least 12 more years. 
The NHL team signed a lease to remain at the Meadowlands Arena, ending a contentious stretch during which the Devils won their first Stanley Cup and the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority sued to keep them from going to Nashville, Tenn. 
The agreement isn't nearly as lucrative as what Nashville was offering, conceded team owner John McMullen, who credited Devils fans and Gov. Christie Whitman's special envoy to the talks -husband John Whitman -with convincing him to stay. 
The deal requires no taxpayer expense, the governor said, as in the move of the Cleveland Browns to Baltimore. 
It allows the Devils to quit the state immediately, however, if New Jersey starts building a "major league facility," such as a baseball stadium, without a team signed for it. 
Addressing persistent rumors the New York Yankees might be lured across the river. McMullen said, ''I'm going to do everything I can, within the agreement, to keep the Yankees from coming to New Jersey." 
Changing the arena's name, once a proposal, is now part of the authority's mandate, 
free transportation 
and admission for all minority juniors and Seniors! 
MINORITY 
CAREER 

Friday
FORUM January 26 
PARTIAL LIST OF ~-• _/~,. .. .-..a J EMPLOYERS ''""~
Andenen Consulting 
Arthur Andersen 

The Fairmont Hotel
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Ollcago,IL Boston Consulting Group CNA Insurance Companies Compaq Computer Corporation 

TO REGISTER,sendorfaxyourresume Ernst & Young UP with 3 industry preferences on the back to: 
Fidelity lnve<tments 

Florida Power & Ught Company Oimson & Brown Associates, Inc. General Moton Delphi-Saginaw 201 Broad:uxrySteering Systems. GMC Hewitt Associates 
Otmbrid~ MA 02139 
Manor Care, Inc. Mercer Management Consulting {.617)868-0181 P.hone Price WaterhousellP (611}868-0187'/ax Prindpal Finandal Group Prudential Insurance 
Prudential Securities REGISTRATION DEADLINE: RR Donnelley & Sons 
SEO November 29 
U.S. 
Marine Corps 

U.S. 
Navy 



Meet and Interview with 
u.s. Secn!t Service 

PLUS MANY MORE Ill leading employers! 

although it is not clear when the rights to the name will be sold to a sponsor. The arena now honors Brendan Byrne, who helped create the Meadow­lands complex while governor from 1974-82. 
The Whitmans attended Tuesday's announcement, along with NHL commissioner Gary Bettman. McMullen and author­ity president Hobert Mulcahy III. 
McMullen said he was greatly • influenced to stay after the Stanley Cup victory rally in June at the Meadowlands. 
"This doesn't provide me any livelihood, but it does provide a great deal of satisfaction and fun," he said. "I can break even." 
Nevertheless, the new agree­ment guarantees $3.2 million in annual revenue to the team and forgives a $1.65 million loan. 
Also, McMullen is about to obtain a $25 million private loan to consolidate losses incurred since the team moved to New Jersey from Denver in 1982, which he said was neces­sary for him to stay. 
Those terms were part of a tentative pact announced July 13, which had also anticipated the installation of 14 new luxu­ry suites and 1,600 luxury club seats at the arnna. 
Mulcahy said it may not be profitable or possible for the authority to build suites, and initial plans for the club seats were not acceptable to the authority. 
However, the guaranteed rev­enue to the Devils rises to $5.2 million after five years, when the sports authority hopes to be getting revenue from the club seats and other improvements. 
The tentative agreement did not anticipate the increased guarantee, but Gov. Whitman said she was confident the authority's plans to generate additional revenue, including a sale of rights· to the arena's name, would be able to meet the terms. thus keeping taxpay­ers from picking up any short­fall. 
Shuck 
continued from page 20 
.333. Defensively, Lee stepped up with 13 digs and 2 blocked shots. 
Coach Debbie Brown sees the loss as a learning experience for the young Irish team. 
"It will prepare us for what we will probably see in the post-season," Brown said. 
Playing the number one • team in the nation can only im­prove your team. And it was obvious as the night went on that Notre Dame became in­creasingly comfortable with the idea of play in Nebraska. 
The second and third games showed marketed improve­ment in both defense and of­fense for the Irish as indicated by the improving scores posted by Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame rounds out eon­ference play this up-eoming weekend against Providence and Boston College and hopes to gain steam for the 13ig East Championship. · 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, November 8, 1995 


Suspensions, talk surround game of the year 
Defensive back Holmes may be gone for year 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
Defensive back Clayton Holmes may be lost to the Dallas Cowboys for a full year because of violations of the NFL's substance-abuse policy, the Fort Worth Star-Telegram reported Tuesday. 
The NFL announced Friday that Holmes and defensive tackle Leon Lett had been sus­pended for four games, ef­fective immediately. But a source the newspaper did not identify said the league intends to suspend Holmes for a year. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said, "I only know what we announced." 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones also declined comment, and Cowboys spokesman Brett Daniels said Tuesday that Holmes was unavailable through the club. 
.. 
Holmes' agent, Tank Black, did not immediately return a telephone message. 
There is no indication that Lett will be suspended for any more than the announced four games, his agent said Monday. 
Under a league policy imple­mented in October, a player cannot be suspended for a year unless he has tested positive for drugs at least four times. 

The Star-Telegram's source did not indicate how many times Holmes has tested posi­tive for violation of the policy. His most recent violation, another unidentified source told the newspaper, was for co­caine. Lett was reported to have been suspended after testing positive for marijuana. 
The Cowboys had to resort to a patchwork defense with Holmes, Lett and injured defensive lineman Russell Maryland out of the lineup, but beat the Philadelphia Eagles, 34-12 Monday night, running their record to 8-1. Dallas is tied with Kansas City for the best record in the league. 
The suspensions of Holmes and Lett have not been a clear­cut process, a team source said. It was unclear until the suspensions were announced, the source said, exactly how the league would penalize each player. 
Coach Barry Switzer said he did not know for certain that Holmes would be suspended at all until after practice Friday. In fact, Holmes, who did not practice Wednesday or Thursday, participated in the Cowboys' Friday practice. 
Holmes moved into the start­ing lineup when Kevin Smith was lost for the season with a ruptured Achilles' tendon in the season opener. He returned to the sideline last week, when Deion Sanders started for the Cowboys for the first time against the Atlanta Falcons. 
Holmes signed a two-year, $1.2 million contract in May. 
Rice looking to back up verbal barrage on field 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS 
Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
Jerry Rice already roasted Deion Sanders with a verbal barrage. He'd like to take that one step further and beat him on the field Sunday, when the San Francisco 49ers play at Dallas . 
"It's going to be the ultimate challenge for me," the 49ers wide receiver said. ''I'm looking forward to it because Deion, he's the best. You always look for challenges like this. This is a true test. I'm not backing away." 
The two were teammates on San Francisco's Super Bowl winning team last season, when Rice became the league's all­time touchdown leader and Sanders earned defensive play­er of the year honors as a play­making cornerback. 
But their relationship was strained at best. Reportedly, the two argued in the days before the Super Bowl because Rice didn't think Sanders was taking the game seriously enough. 
Sanders became a free agent after the 1994 season, and the 49ers were outbid by Dallas, which signed him to a seven­year, $35 million contract. Afterward, Sanders said he was hurt that some of his former teammates, particularly Rice and Steve Young, made little or no effort to contact him and tell him they wanted him back in San Francisco. 
After Rice heard those com­plaints, he unleashed a pro­fainity-laced tirade following San Francisco's 41-10 win over Atlanta Sept. 10 in which he lashed out at the media for lav­ishing excessive credit on Sanders for the 49ers' Super Bowl victory over San Diego. 
"That was not directed at him," Rice said. "I was just try­ing to get the point over that no one individual can win a game anq I think he got offended a little bit. But that's all part of it. Life goes on." 
Sanders has said he believes Rice felt threatened when he was with the 49ers and is glad he's gone because now "it's the Jerry Rice show." 
But Rice said that's nonsense, pointing out he had offered to rework his contract to clear room under the salary cap for an offer to Sanders. Rice also dismissed as laughable Sanders' suggestion that a phone call from Rice or some of his other ex-teammates might have influenced his decision. 
"You're going to tell me if I had called him and said, 'OK, Deion, man, we need you here bad, I want you here, man,' that he would have turned down that $35 million?" Rice said. "No way. So don't use me as a scapegoat. 
"I think if anything, he knew exactly what he wanted to do before we knew exactly what he wanted to do. So we were left in the dark thinking he wanted to come back here and he didn't. He had his mind made up already." 
Rice said he wishes the 49ers were in better shape, in terms of team health and their record (5-4) for Sunday's game, a rematch of last season's NFC title game. Dallas (8-1) is tied with Kansas City for the league's best record while injury-weakened San Francisco is coming off consecutive losses to New Orleans and expansion­ist Carolina. · 
Both Steve Young (bruised left shoulder) and Elvis Grbac (left ankle sprain) were listed as questionable, and there is a chance third-stringer Cary Conklin could start at quarter­back against the Cowboys. 
Rice said he's not worried about who will play quar­terback. 
"The way I look at the situa­tion, I have to get better as a receiver," he said. "That's my focus." 
The Cowboys use Sanders much like the 49ers did, assign­ing him to the opposition's top receiver, and Rice said he expects to see Sanders the entire game. 
The last time the two faced each other was Dec. 11, 1993, when Sanders was with the Falcons. Rice caught six passes for 105 yards but Sanders had two interceptions and prevent­ed Rice from scoring in what was a 27-24 Atlanta victory. 


......-~----~--------~ --­
Wednesday, November 8, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Cooper hopes to end previous woes against Illini 

No. 2 Ohio State remains in position for the Rose Bowl. 
By RUSTY MILLER Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
In his first seven years as Ohio State's coach, John Cooper has one win and six losses against Illinois. 
Sometimes the games have teetered on one play; some­times they have been lopsided. All of the losses have grated on him. 
Entering second-ranked Ohio State's game Saturday at home against the Illini. the questions bubble to the surface again as they do every year. 
Why does Illinois always seem to have your number? Why do they always play so well against your team and the Buckeyes play so poorly against them? 
Cooper said part of the rea­son for that 1-6 black mark is that a few of those games weren't upsets. 
''I'm not sitting here making alibis. We just haven't got it done, period," Cooper said Tuesday at his weekly news conference. "But when we first played them. the first few years, Illinois had as good a personnel as anybody in this league. Now you might want to ask them how come they didn't win more games? How come they only got a team up to play us? How come they lost 
IStudent Affairs presents or Our Rights: 
n4e~tttatttte ~ac-ktaAt~ 
SovEREIGNTY: 
e Americas mber 9, 1995 
rary Auditorium OPM iately Following­
".... Not only the indig· enous peoples, but the earth to which they are irrevocably linked, are now dying. If the land dies, no humans can survive. In avery real sense, the late of Native America and the late of the planet are one...." -Ward Churchill 
" ... No matter what Americans believe, most of us in the colonies do not feel grateful that our country was stolen, along with our citizenship, our lands and our independent plm among the family of nations..." -Haunani-lay Trask 
ehu Ot,ul•ut. (tlltJt tf Aru & ltlltrl, Sll4ul U..iu lur4 
American Awareness Month.­
P a p a h u I a 'o I o u Ma k o u Ma k u a h i n e games?'' 

His first three years as the Ohio State coach, with less than breathtaking talent, he lost 31­12 and 31-20 at home and 34­14 in Champaign. 
But even over the last four years -when the Buckeyes have gone 34-9-2 against everybody else -Illinois still holds a 3-1 upper hand. The Illini have won by two points, three points and last year by a 24-10 count. Ohio State's lone win was a 20-12 win at Illinois in 1993. 
Moreover, Illinois has won four of those games at Ohio Stadium. No team has won four in a row in Columbus since Bob Zuppke's Illinois teams took six in a row from 1919 to 1929. 
But even the Illini domination in Ohio Stadium makes sense in light of Lou Tepper's inexplica­ble 10-3-1 Big Ten road record in his four years as head coach. 
Cooper said it's not as if the Illinois defensive approach has stifled the Buckeyes' game 
lans. 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Basketball Officials· Needed for lnterhall and Grad!FadStaff Games. Pays $8.50 a game. If you are currently a Co-Ree official and would like to do other Basketball leagues, please call 631·6100 and ask for Mark. 
Women's Lacrosse· Practice will be in Loftus on Nov. 13 and 15 from 9-10 p.m. These will be our last practices for the semester. Any questions? Call Alison at 239-7924. 
Fall Ball Classic-RecSports and Student Activities are co­sponsoring this 3 on 3 basket· ball tournament which will be held November 7 and 8. The entry fee is $6.00 and the deadline is November 6. Space is limited and there are men's and women's divisions. Varsity basketball players are ineligi­ble. Register in advance at RecSports or LaFortune Gorch Game Room. 
SMC Track & Field· The team will have a meeting Tuesday, November 14 at 6:30 in the Angela Athletic Facl1ity. All interested should attend. 
"If you loo.k at our production offensively, we've moved the ball," Cooper said. "It's not like they've shut us down. Look at the stats the last few years. There's been years where we've had close to 500 yards total offense but we haven't been productive, we haven't cashed in. Again, give them credit." 
The Illini rallying cry has been that Ohio State didn't respect them. Cooper said that's hogwash. 
"They keep talking about they don't get respect from us. I don't know how much more respect you can give them than what we have. But it's not our fault they haven't won more games," he said. 
Ohio State is 9-0 overall and 5-0 in the conference while Illinois is 4-4 and 2-3. But records haven't meant much in the series in recent years. The last three times Illinois has beaten Ohio State, the Illini still lost at least five games each season. 
Squash-RecSports is offering campus squash singles, table tennis and wallyball. The deadline for sign-up is today. Wallyball captains' meeting is November 9 at 5 p.m. in the Joyce Auditorium. 
Rowing Club· Mandatory meeting for all rowers tonight at 8:00 p.m. in 122 Hayes­Healey. 
Drop-In Volleyball-It will take place on Tuesday November 14, 21, 28 and December 5 at the Joyce Center from 8·11. No advance sign­ups or established teams neces­sary. 
Sportstalk-Join hosts Matt Hoefling, Ken Macek, Dave Bucolo, and G.R. Nelson this Sunday on WVFI 640 AM at 
9:00 as they welcome a mystery guest. Once again the discus­sion will be sintilating as become custom on what is slowly becoming the No. 1 sports talk leader across the country. Well, alright, maybe across the t'irst floor of LaFortune. 

The Saint Mary's College 
Department ofMusic 
cordially invites you to 
the twenty-third annual 
Madrigal Dinners 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Decemberfirst, second and third at seven each evening Regina Hall 
Advance reservations required Tickets: $24.50 per person 
... 

The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, November 8, 1995 


League in turmoil after labor peace 
page 16 
• SwiMMING 

Irish 
pr~vail tight race to ·· ...·· .....·---­
.'!~;~;:·:,..,..,,. ····•;t)fi!l ;yl\ .. '·' ••·• ·, •. ·' ••>i?A<Wlih·-.'1 By BRIDGET CASEY · ·· Win:; the women were Sports Writer in a different meet altogether. Although meets between the 
•·Women•s teams"have .. ahvays 
While most of the campus been competitive, this year. the was preparing for the arrival of talent and speed of the Irish parents Friday afternoon. the proved to be to 
men's swim team was involved ,Qo:wling :Gre~n. .. in a tight race to the finish against Bowling Green State "We went into the meet University. From beginning to expecting tight .. competition so end the Irish exchangedfir~t ,jt was n~(;~tto c away ~th place finishes with Bowling ·snell a strong · · offiiUented Green. only securing the win captain Anna Cooper. ·. with first (3:18.39) and third "After a tough week of tr!lin~ place (3:18.39) in the 400 ing-itfelt good to r~ce", e~ntb17 Freestyle relay, the final event ued fellow captain !Joy of the meet. Michnowicz. "We had some 
fast swims an 
e~~;t ':~sa!~:~~~~~:::~ ;,~~ces1,:;~;jlli!1ii'ii 
captain George Lathrop. <' Sophomore 
"Bowling Green is the·t' ou~me:st ' led the Irish un1th:••cvin · team we have ·year and we 
competitive meets with them. It was nice to come away with .•..•.· such a close win~~ c. :::::,W~'g);Jt' /F(ar·en Dl~Ylortiliiis. 
Depth was defmitely the key to winning Friday's meet as the .·.· Irish· men notched only four ·· 1w> •:,i ·· ·· individual first place finishes, . . . . .· ... . .... 
but continued to score well also won two events for the throughout the meet•. In-.. lrish le<t?ing dividually, sophomore Ron:n1'J>eterson (2:1 · 
Royer captured a win for the ?:12,30 in the . . Irish in the 200 Freestyle with Iacobucci ·also won a time of 1:45.11. · Following dMdual Medley ~~JeiioWIJ7}!ih 
Royer, captain Lathrop led a freshman Beccfl ROJ1der· three-way race for second in a sheimer (2:13.09)fmished sec• time of 1:48.00 while junior ond to Iacobucci's winning time Rich Murphy also scored for 
of2:1l the Irish finishing fourth in 
1:48.35. events~ •• sopho~~~~:~ • Gallo and Shelley 
Freshman Scptt Zum..•••.. h.. ach also Qtit¢1tep wins for again led the "·'teail\::' yvith 'th Hotcp.kiss g impressive double wins Ui the se .. ace ill. . the . 0 200 Individual Medley (1:56.45) le fu 1:5.7.2$ and Gallo 
,.and the 500 Fr J .. .. .. ~~ . J90Qf fYl~ ~}'
(4:47.58). Zumbaeh. b, JJdoverfiev seconds, . t)~e only Irish sweep of the meet inN" of 10:31.65; . MJ~ riowlcz 
the Individual Medley as senior rounded out lrtSh wms Dave Doherty {2:01.37} out-. ,freestyl~events .....-~~··•b ouched Irish junior MattRose field in the500 Freestyle 
(2:01.45) for second and third time of 5:13;05. places respectively. Captain Tim Sznewajs finished sl:)cond ..•····· This we~kend th~ CPIIl.,etitive to Zumbach in the 500 Free on sWings Into hlgh gear as (4:49.38). while Rose rounded the men travel toface Western out the individual winners, tak-Kentucky. The women ~ave ing the 200 Breastroke \'ri.Ql a, ,Jill1e off befor~. ~pth teams 
time of2:13.39). \''' ··?head eastto face conference While the men used depth rival Villanova on the 18th of and close races to secure the November. 
'What at"e.lJOU doing this Christmas? 
Consider signing up for Theo 365C ''The Church ~nd Social Action," colloquially known as "Urban Plunge" 
• 
48 hour experience in an inner city of your choice 

• 
During the week of january 3 -11 (dates are chosen by the host site) 

• 
BE WITH, LISTEN and EXPERIENCE the stories of people who live in poverty 

• 
T>lk with people who are homeless 

• 
EXPERIENCE soup kitchens, shelters and welfare agencies 

• 
Meet people who are trying to make life better for people 


who live in poverty

... 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: Nov. 10, 1995 
ORIENTATION: Nov. 19,1995 4-6PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
FOLLOW-UP MEETING: Jan. 21, 1996 6:30 -10:00 PM 
~2gistration availahl.. at the C2nt<tr for Soda\ Conums, Campus .Minist'lj and <:Hal\ ~"P'-'1.1~ 
Campus .Minist'lj and .Multieultural.Jllfairs 119 .C.....:Mans -S.MC 
Stud..nt .Jllfairs Offiu -<:HCC 

By BARRY WILNER 
Associated Press 

With labor peace, the NFL expected to sail into the next century. Instead, it is plagued by renegade owners, nomadic franchises and lawsuit upon lawsuit. 
Just this year: 

-The Los Angeles Rams became the St. Louis Rams and the Raiders returned to Oakland from LA, leaving the nation's second-largest city without a pro football team. 
-Art Modell announced he will take the Browns from Cleveland to Baltimore, although he needs approval from 22 of his fellow owners, and might have a court battle ahead. 
-Cowboys owner Jerry Jones signed deals with Nike, Pepsi and American Express, none of which were NFL sponsors at the time. When the league sued him, Jones sued right back. 
-Deion Sanders signed a $35 million contract with the Cowboys and the league said the deal violated the salary cap. Jones said NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue was picking on America's Team. 
-The NFL sued Raiders owner AI Davis over sharing funds from personal seat licenses, one of the keys to Davis moving his team back to Oakland. 
Commenting on the Browns' proposed move, Tagliabue kind of summed up the NFL's prob­lems when he said, "I can't say it's all over. From the league's perspective, it's just begin­ning.'' 
That worries Gene Upshaw, executive director of the NFL Players Association. When the union and the league nego­tiated a collective bargaining agreement that runs through 1999 -then a new television deal made the teams even rich­er -pro footb.all's outlook was brighter than at any time in the last decade. 
That's no longer the case. 
"We look at it at from the standpoint of the labor deal and how it interplays," Upshaw said. "We get 63 percent of gross revenues. If they go out and lose lawsuits. their 37 per­cent gets cut down. Quite natu­rally, when we sit down for the next deal, they will say, 'We want concessions'. 
"We are not concerned with what they say they are making, we have their books. But where do you go with the business itself. the business of the NFL, that is important. We've been able to survive on one signifi­cant factor, revenue-sharing. It is the one thread that holds everything together. If we are seeing that come apart, we become baseball." 
At least baseball has been able to settle most of its stadi­um problems. The NFL certain­ly has not. . 
So the Raiders went back in Oakland. St. Louis replaced the Cardinals (who moved in 1988 to Phoenix) with the Rams. The Browns said they're moving to Baltimore. The Oilers are nego­tiating with Nashville, the Bengals seek suitors from coast to coast and the Cardinals ­yes. those same Cardinals ­start looking around. 
"Obviously we want to see stability," Upshaw said. "Our players, especially in this era of free agency, pick a city and team because they think it will be there. and all of a sudden they are not there. 
"We think the fans' support is important. You have to be able to build a nucleus. What it comes down to is the cities that lose a team, they go out to get other teams. In some cases, they could have kept those teams in the first place if they did more. Now, they end up paying more than if they had kept those teams." 
And the league's image takes a hit every time an AI Davis, Georgia Frontiere or Art Modell seeks more lucrative deals in other locales. 
"It's just a sign of the times," Broncos owner Pat Bowlen said. "Teams need a venue to play in that will attract fans. The ones that don't get them are gping to have a very hard time surviving. Fans are no longer satisfied with second­rate stadiums. 
"It's not so much about the owners making more money as about having enough money to do what Jerry Jones is doing in Dallas." 
Among the things Jones is doing in Dallas is trying to revamp the league's revenue­sharing system. On Monday, he filed a $750 million antitrust lawsuit against the NFL, accus­ing the league of blocking teams from conducting their own marketing business. 
-O'peiil
I 
mike! 
nov. 8i 
9-llPM!I 
LAFuNI
BALJ 
ROOM: 
STIJDENT UNION BOARD 

r--~-~----------.----------~---­

All in-store Merchandise 20o/o off 

The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAM:E sportswear & accessories! 
LaFortune Student Center (219)631-8128 
--------~------~--­
~-~-­

Wed. Nov 8 12-6 pm
IRISH 
EXPRESS 

Thur. Nov 9 12-8 pm
HOURS 
........._ 

Fri. Nov 10 12-6 pm 
We Accept both Visa, 

MasterCard and Discover 
! 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 8, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

Belles end disappointing season with Valparaiso loss 
By NICOLE BORDA Spons Writer 
The Belles had hoped to turn things around this year for the Saint Mary's soccer program. Equipped with a new coach and a new attitude the Belles hoped to erase the memories of a dis­appointing season last year. 
The Belles improved their record from 4-12 in 1994 to 6­11-2 this season. However, they were far from achieving the high standards that had been set for this team at the start of the season. Coach Solomon Scholz had planned on taking his team to the champi­onships this year. 
"This season did not go as well as I had expected. It just seemed that no matter how hard we played, we just could­n't win," said Scholz. 
There was no doubt that this year's team was stacked with talent. Unfortunately, the Belles lost many of their starters to injuries. 
Sophomore Sandra Gass and juniors Jody Jennings and Brigid Keyes missed several games at the end of the season when the Belles could have used them most. Senior Tina Brockman, a nursing major, was forced to miss the last game because of clinicals. 
"It was very sad that I had to miss the last game. I really en­joyed this season and being with my teammates," said Brockman, "We really got along well and played as a team. I'm going to miss them 
Ti01e 
continued from page 20 
terback even if it means sacri­ucing a year of his eligibility. 
"I have never held out a play­er who could help us win even if it was for just one game," said Holtz. "If an individual can play one game to help you win, you play him." 
After watching the running game struggle against the Fal­cons last season, Holtz contends that the key to beating Air Force does not rest at the quar­terback position. 
"You don't compensate for someone like Ron Powlus with one player," said Holtz. "The offensive line will have to take on a greater responsibility. This will be a very difficult chal­lenge for us. 
"The most important thing for our quarterback is getting the snap and handing off the ball to the running back." 
The Irish hope that Krug can handle those duties along with the pressure of prime time. 



the season. Even though we Nichols. weren't winning, it was great In their final game of the sea­and I'm really sad that its son last Thursday, the Belles over," said Juster. "All of the lost to Valparaiso University, a players became really close this Division I school. The field con­year. I enjoyed being with my ditions were terrible and be­teammates." cause of the rain it was almost 
With the addition of Coach like playing in a swimming Scholz and assistant Coach pool. Andy Peters, the Belles hoped The loss of sophomore that this season would be better Sandra Gass had a tremendous than the last. However, with impact on the defense of the three different coaches in the Belles. Sophomore Keary Sulli­past three years it has been van was forced to play with an hard for Saint Mary's to find injured ankle and was still not stability. playing at full strength. 
"It was difficult for them to "The game was really cold," adjust to what I was trying to said Nichols. "I couldn't even teach them," Scholz said. "A feel my lower body with shorts lot of players improved on. When we dribbled the ball, throughout the season. They it just got lost in the puddles were able to learn a new style. and you couldn't even kick it This team had a lot of out. The game was just crazy." strength." "I really commend the seniors 
"We've had to repeatedly this year," said Scholz. "The conform to the way a coach team as a whole was playing wants us to play. It took us at much better by the end of the least half of the season to figure season. I think I have left it in out exactly what Solomon was their minds how I want them to trying to teach us. He has a play next year. When looking very different style. It was hard at the team as a whole, I can but by the end of the season we see a lot of strength in them. were really coming together as I'm looking forward to next a team," said junior Lisa year." 

Why study here, when you can study there? 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
TONIGHT NOV.8 7:00P.M. Room 303, Haggar College Center SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Students discuss travel in Europe and Ireland Everyone welcome! APPLICATIONS DISTRIBUTED 
Give yourself a gift for Christmas... 
spend 5 days at St. Agatha's Church in Chicago 
Dec. 17th -21st 
• 5 days of service in inner city 
• opportunity to work-hands on -in parish outreach ministry to needy families and children 
• room and board provided on site 
• limited space available -apply early! 
Re"istration Deadline: November 17 available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Information sessions: November 15: 6:30 -7:00 PM November 16: 6:30 -7:00 PM at Center for Social Concerns 
all." 
Saint Mary's was fortunate to gain seven talented freshman this year many of whom were able to step up and play well. Several even earned starting positions by the end of the sea­son. Most notably was fresh­man goalie Joanne Wagner. All of the Saint Mary's six wins were shutouts. 
"We didn't finish the season where we wanted to," said Wagner. "It was hard for me being a freshman and starting. We were a really young team this year and next year should be better." 
The four seniors this year played an important role as team leaders. Senior defender and midfielder Rita Juster had a strong season with the Belles. 
"We had a lot of talent this year and things really started picking up towards the end of 
Please Recycle The Observer 

•
• 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 

Call 234•0363 
(24 hours) 
SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 

Wcdncsdday, November 8, 1995 
0"" :c Dot<', Ge."' ""CmC>. 1-\uii?Wut-1\•.. P.a•uT ~··· ~tfft(.O~~f4~1"f!.l., ~·"~~ 
1')..,--p.,"t. '5,.. \\o T 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 

_.. 
DILBERT 
Hti\E. ARt. THE. RE~ULTS OF f"\Y ISO 9000 t>.UDlT OF YOUR 
COf'\~1\NY 
.. 
~ 
w 
r"' 
~ 
vi 

\.,-lf_hu..~ETtl£ £~r.MI!.tlt"t\t.. N.ll\fo~.s Cf 01111. 'Soul!>-U~ETwo ~,_E,.,.­A-.orn'3-Puu-•t<t, ONE To Ar<.,.ER-1 Offos ""~ Ar; PloC.T~ 1 Bcr.!'lo,.-..,, 
ti'EtOI'IIor<C. Ot~E.. At.oTo~n11~.R, We'u. LovE l-l~ppu..'1 toi>E~tl>, o.,_ B,,.~ Of Lo-JE. P~toO.S«NC. ('i\""'1 1...-t~t.E CA,.eo.., 
A~\ER ~LL, 1'-A.~ CO~~\:.'S?CI~\lt.l{C\:. WILL 

31 Afore 18 "--Camera" 
32 Laugh (at) 19 Yeats's home 
33 Comedienne 23 Nautical Poundstone heading 
34 Court figures: 25 "Oops!" Abbr. 
26 Nolan Ryan, 
38 Dernier -­once 39 Layers
27 Raises, as 40 Most excellent 
spirits 28 Archer and 

41 Shred Frank 46 Leather worker 

The Observer • TODAY page 15 
DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON Oft. ->n, \.ll~;_\..t..,TIII':. Ct..EAilS \)p $'oti\E Tl\o!'l G. 
b)""' \{•v (,...·, bET 
i-11'-E li\AT. A\)~TE {\.,. LEA~"\" ... 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own 
\ 

date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 

58 Room in Rouen 59 Is inherited 65 Narcotic 66 Take advantage 
of 67 Adams of 50's 
TV 68 Hostage taker 69 Communica­
tions giant 10 Side glance 
DOWN 

1 Kind of jazz 
· 2 Hertz rival 3 "--c'est moi" 4Series 5--vivant &Assailant 1 Migraine, e.g. 8 Besides 9 Bump off, so to 
speak 10--Aviv 11 Mr. Landon 12 Partner of 30"As--and neither breathe!" 
81:. \\-\~ \311-'SIC 1<.\:.SOIJRG:. Mf>...TI:R\1\l FOR 1-\\'STOR\f>...N.'S "fu R£.COW3TRI.lC\ ~~ LIFE. M~ WR\1\N.G WILL ?\<!0'11\>E. COI.JNT\..ESS Ff>...'SC.IN.fi..TING 1~'3\G\-\IS 
I=C)R BI<JGR!I.I'I-\ER'S. 

YOUR E.t'\?LOYE.E.S ARE. LARGELY UNTR.AINE.O 
A.NO -I COULDN'T 
H£..LP NOTICE-fi\IR.lY 
<> 
~ 
u 

success. CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
.: ARE ALSO 
~ HIGHLY SKlLLE.D 

Roll up your sleeves and go to work. Others are eager to help. Use your
l LIA-RS, SO 

organizational talents to get a new enterprise on its feet. Your expertise 
<II 

and generosity will impress a loved one. 
WE. SUCCE.E.D 
Wl--\£.RE IT 

LEO (July 23-Au~. 22): Some­one opens your eyes to a new· phi­losophy today. People at a distance 
COU~TS '!' 

L---~--------~~----~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Latvian or Estonian 5 Welcome to the fold? a Offspring of Gaea 14 Hgt. 15 Like some Wall St. stocks 16 American wildcat 11 Disordered senses 20 Nebraska Indian 21 Nautical start 
22 The Key Bridge 51--Paulo, spans it Brazil 
24 Debtor's note 52 Kind of window 
26 Org. for 56 Reply to the 34-Down Little Red Hen 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
BILL WATTERSON 
5\.lC.\-\ f\S \-\OW M.L ITS \3£.£1{ 1\-\~l:.t. 
'\t>l.lR Sfi.LI.llfo-TICNS WEHS f>...NO I BEGIN, "\-IE.~ StiLl 1-\f>...~ENT BOOGERI3RAIN " R'i:-CE.I'IH> 1"\'{ X·Rfo..~ GV\5SE.S! 
SCOTT ADAMS 
HOWEVER., THE.Y 


cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A recently launched business or pro­gram will pick up speed. Momen­tum is on your side. Use common sense when traveling overseas. Do not take risks you would never take closer to home. Early in 1996, a spe­cial event opens your eyes to a won­derful financial opportunity. A time­ly investment could pay rich divi­dends for years to come! Next sum­mer is the right time to make or accept a romantic proposal. Get to know each other better. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Katharine Hep­burn, singer Bonnie Raitt, actress Esther Rolle, astronomer Edmund Halley. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Avoid someone who likes to pick fights. You do not want to com­pound an earlier error! Seek the lat­est available facts and figures before affixing your signature to a contract. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your intuition will not fail you today. Confiding in trusted allies wins you loyal support. A secret wish could come true. You find the missing pieces to a puzzle. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your idealism could come into con­flict with your desire to attain a financial goal. Let your concerns be known at a behind-the-scenes meet­ing. Good timing is vital to your 
•MENU Notre Dame 
North Chicken Fajita Pizza Italian Sal1Sage Sandwich Honey Baby Carrots 
.Saint Mary's 
Baked Pork Chop Southern Fried Chicken C~~ Bread Dressing 
say "yes." You and your partner are a hard-to-beat combination. Romance is starred for singles. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): YIPs are receptive to your financial or business proposals. Strike while the iron is hot. Get everything in writing. A long-term plan may need revision. Seek experts' advice. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Make the best possible use of your time and energy today. Contact clients or agents with a specific project in mind. Good organization and advance planning are essential. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You now have the facts you need to make an informed choice. Take immediate action. Friends or rela­tives lend a helping hand when needed. Romance and marriage may be the focal point of your social life. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Welcome a chance to publicize your talents. Your originality will strike a chord with a prominent indi­vidual. Pay attention to details. Part­ners have a strong say in the deci­sions you make. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Adventure beckons! You plunge into a new relationship or business project. Improved domestic and family trends give you fresh hope for the future. An intuitive hunch could prove accurate. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Somebody has to make a decision and you are elected! Putting your cards on the table helps everyone settle down. In romance, use the vel­vet glove approach. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A friend of a friend helps you cement a useful agreement. Surround yourself with positive people. Dreams can be enlightening. Go ahead and play Cupid! 
South Roast Top Sirloin Vegetables Marinara Whipped Potatoes 
-
• 
• 
29 1945 Dana Andrews war movie, with "A" 
32 Sauna locale 
35 Slippery one 
36 "Loot" 
playwright 37 Coming-of-age classic, with 
"The" 42 Bizarre 43 Rival 44 Old spy org. 45 Go against. with 
"of" 50 Scale notes 


·"OF INTEREST 
liThe School of Architecture is sponsoring a lecture entitled "The Roosevelt Road Bridge" by Howard Decker today at 4 P.M. in the Anneberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. Mr. Decker's firm is responsible for the recently completed Roosevelt bridge in Chicago. 
•women's Resource Center: Meeting today at 7 
P.M. in the 2nd floor LaFortune lobby. 
•No 
Wrestling practices weekly: Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday from 7-8:30 P,M. at the Wrestling Room of the JACC (located in the auxillary gym across from basketball office). New members are welcome. 

•self 
Assessment Workshop: This is a two session workshop: Wednesday, November 8, 6:30-8 P.M. and Wednesday November 15, 6:60-8 P.M. in the Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Student Center. Space is limited. Pre-register in persmi at Career and Placement Services of callt-5200. 


47 Derisive sound 59 Charles Dutton 48 Hacienda, e.g. TV role 49 Pot protector 60--tree 53 Playground 
61 Pinch feature 62 Convened
54 Kukla's friend 55 Mob figure 63 Much-watched Lansky judge 57 Hooligan 64 Retainer 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Nicotine is so deadly that it is used as an insecticide..... do you really want to put that in your body??? 
Sponsored By The Office Of Alcohol and Drug Education 
... 


.... SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, November 8, 1995 
• VOI..lEYBAU.. 

No. I Cornhuskers shuck Irish 
By MICHAEL THOMPSON 
SportS Writer 

Top-ranked Nebraska prevails in three 
sets, handing Notre Dame its sixth loss Last night the Notre Dame volleyball team faced off with the No. 1 team in the nation in Nebraska. The Irish put their 22-5 record up against Nebraska's record of 21-1 in hopes of an upset. However, 
· the completion of that task was not as easy as it sounded. Nebraska came into the match with a deceptive record. Although they have lost a game this year, the Cornhuskers have proven themselves to be the best team in the nation by win­ning twenty consecutive match­es by a decisive margin of three games to none. Their last win was delivered to number eight ranked Texas, who have beaten the Irish twice already this year. As was to be expected, the Nebraska University Coliseum was filled to capacity with 3,235 on hand for the event. And in front of the home crowd, the Huskers once again put up the kind of numbers they've grown used to posting. The Nebraska trio of Billie Winsett, Lisa Reitsma, and Alli­son Weston combined for a total of forty-seven kills on the night which was just too much for the Irish defense to handle. Nebraska's defense also showed up for the match contributing fifty-nine digs to the cause. Nebraska won the match in the way they've grown used to. The Irish dropped the first three games by scores of 15-1, 15-11, and 15-6. On the season, Notre Dame falls to a record of 22-6 after the loss to the Cornhuskers, but their thir-



The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Head coach Debbie Brown expects last night's match against Nebraska to be an indicator for what the Irish will encounter in the post -season. · 
teenth national ranking should respectively. However. Jenny not be affected by the loss. Birkner and Lindsay Treadwell 
The match brought with it di-both contributed 7 kills in the versified leadership within the effort. Treadwell, the only Irish's squad. Angie Harris and freshman on the team, led the Jaimie Lee led the team in kills Irish in hitting percentage at as usual with 14 and 10, 
see SHUCK/ page 13 

Air Force game now scheduled for prime time 
By MIKE DAY "Autry Denson has taken ad-routine this week at practice. Sports Writer vantage of injuries to Randy "The quarterback is kind of 
Kinder and Robert Farmer to like your field general, and Prime time awaits the Irish. elevate his game to a new when you lose him, you have to The Notre Dame football level," said Holtz. "He has to start from scratch," said Holtz. 
team returns to prime time become more consistent with-"Tom Krug will be under lots of television for the first time out the ball. But based on what pressure in practice, so that he since tying USC last season. I've seen, he has earned the thinks it's easy once he gets Head coach Lou Holtz into the game. announced Tuesday that.------------------, "This game will not be 

~hgea~~~e~~:r F~~cc;n~~sJ 
been picked up by ESPN 
with kickoff scheduled at 
8:30p.m. EST. 
"I don't like it because

• we have to spend the whole day on the road waiting," said Holtz. "The Cadets will get into the game much more at night, and it just makes it that 
m~~t~~~~~~~~e~~~~ in his 
weekly conference that freshman Autry Denson will start at tailback against Air Force. The former defensive back led the Irish in rushing last weekend against Navy with 115 yards on 16 carries. 

111985: ~~RJISH! 
FQ;,. BA,L,L
il 

starting position." 
With Tom Krug filling in for the injured Ron Powlus at quar­terback, the Irish have been forced to change their entire 
Football 
vs. Air Force, November 18, 
8:30 p.m. EST 
Volleyball 
at Providence, November 11, 7 p.m. at Boston College, November 12 
Men's Basketball 
vs. Australian National Team November 9, 7:30 p.m. 

~~~s 0t~~~~t !~ni~~ :;~y~ 
not hard at all to coach. The only thing difficult to deal with is that his hair gets a little long." 
While Krug has received most of the repetitions in practice, freshman Jarious Jackson has shown signs of progress and will be avail­able should Krug falter. 
~l~;~;:r~s~f t~:c;:l~~n~.0~! 
will lose the opportunity to file for redshirt status with the NCAA. Holtz said he will not hesitate in calling on the option quar­
see TIME I page 18 
Hockey 

vs. Illinois-Chicago, November 10, ?p.m. 
Cross Country 

District· Meet, November II 
SMC Sports 

Swimming at Calvin College, November 11, 1:00 p.m. 


•  Swim team defeats Bowling Green see page 16  
•  Belles' soccer concludes season  
•  see page 18 49ers-Cowboys prepare for big game see page 14  





