
Thursday, February 16, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 88 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
National politics cause for concern 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associare News Ediwr 
Americans have good reason to be extremely eoncerned with the direction of national poli­
tics, said Government Professor Peri Arnold in a lecture entitled. "Do We Heally Need Govern­ment" in a St. 


Edward's Arnold Hall forum last night. 
Arnold said that the many Republican victories last November in federal elections came primarily from a dissatis­faction of government which continues, although different representatives and senators now hold the reins of power. 
"By looking at the language of the Contract with America," he said. "and the speeches of not only Newt Gingrich and Dick Armey but the freshman rep­resentatives as well, it seems that people no longer want or see a need for government." 
lle said that Republicans were able to tap into the basic American fear of big, bloated government, which have intensified over past several years by being perceived as wasteful. too big, and too intru­sive into people's lives. 
By taking advantage of these beliefs and promising to cut spending and making a bal­anced budget, Hepublicans also tapped into "American hyper­individualism, with the image of everyone being Daniel Boone with a pigeon rifle, coon cap, and hunting something." 
Arnold said he has noticed a sense of powerlessness from Americans, "like the colonists and an imperial government seemingly unwilling to listen to them." He said democracy is sliding because talk shows and "focus groups," like those which helped make the Con­tract with America are portray­ing the public opinion of Ameri­cans, which may or may not be accurate. 
He also criticized the media, which he said has a re­sponsibility to inform Ameri­cans about public policy so that 


The Victory and Praise Choir performed last night as a part of Gospel Fest '95. 
Americans can then actively participate with calm, in­formed, and reasonable discus­sion. 
Currently, Americans have a dichotomy of beliefs saying they both despise federal govern­ment, especially bureaucrats, but hold favorable opinions of individual bureaucrats, accord­ing to Arnold, which is why Re­publicans have been reluctant to delineate cuts made neces­sary by the balanced budget amendment. 
Arnold said that positive lead­ership would be needed for cre­ating and outlining the proper role of the national gov­ernment, or else many pro­grams which help Americans are in severe jeopardy of being cut if an attitude of disillusion­ment continues. 
"Unfortunately, we have a crisis in leadership right now," Arnold sadly said. 

Efforts to end war continue in former Yugoslavia 
Reprieve used to encourage Bosnian Serbs into settling conflict 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associarcd Press 
WASlllNGTON 

Shifting gears, the United States and four partners are proposing to ease curbs on trade and fuel shipments to Serbia in a new effort to end the war in Bosnia and prevent its spillover into Croatia. 
In return for a temporary re­prieve from devastating U.N. sanctions, Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic would have to recognize Bosnia, Croatia and two other former Yugoslav republies as sovereign coun­tries. 
"That's not an odds-on proposition for us," Secretary of State Warren Christopher told Congress today. "If he would do it, it would be a huge step forward." 
Christopher said the overall aim was to try to prod Bosnian Serbs "with additional lever­age" into accepting a settle­ment in the 34-month war. 
He credited France with "part of the initiative" and said sanctions on Serbia would be eased initially for two months if Milosevic accepted the propos­al, disclosed Tuesday by a senior U.S. official at the State Department. 

Christopher told the Senate Budget Committee of his con­cerns that an ethnic conflict in Croatia may be imminent. 
Making the same point Tues­day to the Senate Foreign Rela­tions Committee, he said it would be a mistake for Croatian President Franco Tudjman to implement a threat to expel 
U.N. peacekeepers at the end of March. 
Serbs in Bosnia and Croatia harbor hope of establishing in­dependent states that would be joined with Belgrade to form a Greater Serbia. Milosevic's ac­ceptance of the proposal ap­proved by President Clinton and 

he ObserverfT"ricia Wagner 
Health nut 
Therese Galinski of Herbs & More vends her wares at the Women's Health Fair. 
the governments of Britain, France, Germany and Russia could undercut those as­pirations. 
"I don't have any indication he will accept this, I don't have any indication he won't," said a senior U.S. official in divulging the proposal Tuesday. 
Fighting in Bosnia has sub­sided, except in the Bihac en­clave, under a four-month cease-fire that began Jan. 1. The proposal is designed to make the cease-tim permanent and to prevent "an all-out war," said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
The plan will be presented to Milosevic in the next few days, the official said. 
Christopher, meanwhile, said Tudjman may have "unrealistic expectations" of the Croatian army's capabilities against in­dependence-minded Serbs. 
In Bosnia, an estimated 200,000 people have died or are missing in the war. Serb forces, supplied with artillery and other weapons by Bel­grade, are in control of about two-thirds of Bosnia. 
A plan proposed by the five countries to establish two zones -one controlled by the Serbs and the other by a Muslim­Croat federation -has been rejected r.epeatedly by the Serbs. 
Even an offer in December that they would be free to nego­tiate new terms after accepting the map did not persuade the Serbs to agree to hold 49 per­cent of the country. 
The main lure of the new of­fer for Milosevic would be at least temporary renewal of trade and fuel supplies. 
UN convoy provides aid, tests Serbs 
By LIAM MCDOWALL Associared Press 
SARAJEVO 
A U.N. convoy headed today for Bosnia's famished north­west, testing Serb promises of unhindered passage in the re­gion, where government forces have made sizable gains. 
U.N. 
aid agency spokesman Kris Janowski said the 10­truck convoy carrying 94 tons of aid had entered territories controlled by rebel Serbs in neighboring Croatia. Other 

U.N. 
officials said a second convoy, resupplying U.N. peacekeepers in the northwest, also had moved into Serb-held lands. 


In the past month, Croatian Serbs and renegade Bosnian Muslims allied with Bosnian Serbs have been clashing with government troops in the northwestern area known as the "Bihac pocket." 
The Croatian Serbs and Mus­lim rebels are not parties to the Jan. 1 truce signed by Bosnian Serbs and the Muslim­led government, and they have repeatedly blocked aid ship­ments. On Tuesday, however, they gave permission for four convoys to pass. 
Janowski, a spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, called the per­mission a "breakthrough. at least on paper." He cautioned that the convoy must go through a "lot of (Serb) check­points ahead" before it reach­es its destination. 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 16, 1995 
•INSIDE COLUMN 
ND's strange sense of family 
Family: "the ties that  Eth  H  d  
bind." Catholic: "univer­ an  aywar  
sal." It seems that the  News Copy Editor  
meanings of these two  
words are undergoing  

severe changes at this university. 
I realize that the GLND/SMC issue is proba­bly overexposed, but it seems to me that it ought to be viewed in the light in which Notre Dame professes to view all things, namely the view of this institution as Catholic and as a family. 
I have been attending Catholic schools for almost fifteen years, and in each and every religion or theology class I've taken, it has been pointed out to me that the Catholic reli­gion is an inclusive one, not an exclusive one. The Church is meant to be an all-inclusive institution, not an exclusive club like the Masons. It is not supposed to discriminate in its membership on any basis. At least, that's what my teachers have said all along. 
I can also remember a song we used to sing back at Gesu Elementary in Toledo. It went, "Whatsoever you do to the least of my people, that you do unto me." While anyone who seems to be the least of our fellow human beings may not appear too Christ-like, is it really fair to condemn them and judge them unfit to assemble and to seek representation? And isn't judging our fellow human beings something we were told not to do? 
GLND/SMC is not officially recognized here because they do not fall in line with the doc­trine of the Church. Does that mean the University should also not recognize the stu• dents and faculty of different religions and any organizations they may have? 
And what of the idea of the "Notre Dame Family?" Would a family deny membership to those born into it simply because they are dif­ferent? 
I happen to have family members and fami­ly friends who happen to be homosexual. Would it be right and dutifully Catholic of me and my parents to exclude them from family gatherings or holiday celebrations? I realize that that very thing may and does occur in some families, but it just doesn't seem to be the Christian thing to do. 
Not that we have any organizations within my family, like the Alliance for Extended Curfews or Children Against Forced Bathing. But there do happen to be organizations with­in the so-called Notre Dame Family that should not be excluded from University facili­ties simply because of their nature and mem­bership. 
Not everyone here is an aficionado of Newt Gingrich or public speaking. So should the College Republicans and Toastmasters' be kicked off campus, too? My point is that peo­ple are different, and differences can and must be tolerated within any given society. 
Considering the recent actions of the admin­istration, it seems that this institution is hav­ing problems living up to the labels of "Catholic," "family," and even that of "univer­sity." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News Nancy Dunn Ethan Hayward  Production Heather Gibson Tara Grieshop  
Sports Tim Seymour Abby May  Accent Patty Carson Tom Johannesen  

Viewpoint Graphics Mike O'Hara Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Fire at packed Taiwan nightclub kills at least 67 

TAICHUNG, Taiwan 
Fire roared through a crowded three­story nightclub Wednesday night, killing at least 67 people and injuring 11 in Taiwan's deadliest fire on record. The cause of the fire that gutted the popular Weierkang Club, a karaoke bar and restaurant, wasn't immediately known. Some survivors said it broke out in a stair­well, while others reported hearing an explosion on the second floor. News reports said more than 100 customers were inside when the fire broke out. Police said iron bars on the windows prevented many from escaping. Newspapers said it was the highest fire death toll in Taiwan's history. Badly burned bodies were taken to a makeshift morgue, where crying rela­tives tried to identify them. One woman collapsed when she recognized the body of a family member. Many of the bodies were found on the second floor, "packed in like sardines," said volunteer firefighter Lee 
Lugar to phase down crop payments 
WASHINGTON 

The chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee will propose a five-year phase-down of crop subsidy payments to help cut farm program spending by $11 billion. Sen. Richard 
G. Lugar, R-Ind., will suggest a cut in the "target price" for major crops by 3 percent a year in each of the five years, said Minda Markle, spokesper­


son for the Agriculture Committee. The proposal will be among others Lugar will make Thursday in testimony before the Senate Budget Committee. The $11 billion would equal a 25 percent reduction in farm program spending, Ms. Markle said. The target price is set by Congress as the desired price for major crops: wheat, corn, sorghum, barley, oats, rice and cotton. Lugar acknowledged in an interview with Broder that the pro­posal would be a difficult sell for his fellow farm-state Republicans, including Sen. Bob Dole, R-Kan., the Senate majority leader, and Rep. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., chairman of the House Agriculture Committee. "If we are serious about budget discipline," Lugar said, "we cannot spare our friends." 
Ferguson has new conspiracy theory 
MINEOlA, N.Y. 

The man accused of killing six people on a commuter train maintained in court today that he is a victim of a conspiracy that is somehow linked to the death of serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer. Colin Ferguson, allowed to act as his own lawyer despite advice to plead innocent by rea­son of insanity, also claimed he had been forced into an appearance on CNN's "Larry King Live." Ferguson is accused of killing six people and wounding 19 more on a packed Long Island Rail Road commuter train on Dec. 7, 1993. He has claimed the shootings were committed by an unidentified white man who stole his gun. On Tuesday, he offered another theory: The killer was a black man who both looks like him and shares his name. He said last November's prison slaying of Dahmer, who admitted cannibalizing some of his victims, also was tied to the conspiracy against him. "The Jeffrey Dahmer inci­dent was not a coincidence.... He was set up as a prelude against me," he said. "There's a conspiracy to murder me if I'm convicted." Ferguson also complained that he was forced against his will to tape an appearance for King's show, a statement the judge found ludicrous. "I saw you on Larry King last night, and you didn't appear to be under coercion," Judge Donald Belli said. 
Yung-chuan. He said firefighters were 
exhausted from carrying bodies out of the 
building. A manager of the club, Wu Che.n­
seng, was being held for questioning. Some 
witnesses told police the fire broke out 
behind the first-floor bar of the Weierkang 
Club. National television also quoted sur­
vivors who said they heard an explosion, 
possibly on the second floor. Other sur­
vivors told Associated Press Television the 
fire started in the stairwell between the 
first and second floors. One witness said a 
waiter tried to use a fire extinguisher, but 
the fire was too big. Police said firefighters 
extinguished the blaze in an hour. 
Taichung Mayor Lin Po-jung and Taiwan 
provincial Gov. James Soong visited the 
scene of the fire and expressed condo­
lences to the families of the dead. Taiwan's 
karaoke clubs, many of which operate 
without government permission or quali­
fied safety facilities, have been the site of 
several recent fires. 
Priests charged with sexual abuse 
LANDOVER, Md. 

Three Roman Catholic priests were arrested Wednes­
day and charged with sexual child abuse during the 
1970s. Prince George's County police say the priests 
turned themselves in after being advised there were war­
rants against them. Father Alphonsus Smith, 70, was 
charged with abusing two youths in 197 5 while assigned 
to Saint Matthias Church in Lanham. Father Edward 
Pritchard, 50, was charged with abusing one youth in 
1974 and another in 1976 while assigned to Saint 
Matthias. Father Edward Hartel, 58, is charged with one 
count of abuse while visiting the church in 197 5. 
Conviction of sexual child abuse carries a penalty of up to 
15 years in jail. The Archdiocese of Washington disclosed 
last week that four parish priests had admitted molesting 
an altar boy at Saint Matthias in the 1970s. The priests 
were removed from their parish assignments after admit­
ting they sexually abused the same altar boy during the 
1970s. The Washington Archdiocese issued a statement 
Wednesday saying the entire situation "is a source of 
great sorrow to the archdiocese. We continue to pray for 
all those involved in this tragedy, most especially the vic­
tims, the parish communities and the priests them­
selves." 

Judge upholds adoption 
MIAMI 

A case of adoptive parents who reluctantly agreed to return their 5-month-old boy took a twist Wednesday when a judge told them they should keep the baby. The biological mother, Sheila Sheil, had consented to the adoption with the condition that the birth father also ap­proved. But she named the wrong man as Baby Michael's father. Genetic tests revealed Franklin Velasquez was the father, and he objected to the adoption. Sheil withdrew her consent, and adoptive parents Kim and Dennis Sow­ers of Fort Lauderdale agreed to surrender their son rather than have his life entangled in the courts. Then reports of Sheil's criminal history surfaced. In 1993, she served six months in prison on four felony convictions for stealing from a 90-year-old patient while on probation for other fraud and theft convictions. And last Friday, Ve­lasquez withdrew his objection to the adoption. Palm Beach Circuit Judge Lucy Brown upheld the adoption Wednesday in a written opinion that was not made pub­lic, lawyers for both sides said. Sheil's attorney, Ellis Rubin, promised an appeal. He added that Sheil, "was disappointed but definitely not surprised." Even though she almost lost custody, Kim Sowers said she hoped other couples would not be frightened away from adoption. 
.,
.• ... c:.. 




The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 16. 
C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STDRMS V1a AssociBtsd Prsss 


~~---~---~-----~~. ---~-~~--~----­
Thursday, February 16, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Arafat accused of rights' abuse 
By DONNA ABU-NASR Associated Press 
. 
GAZA CITY 

The knock on the door, in the 
middle of the night. came for 
Haji Sourani just two days after 
he criticized PLO leader Vasser 
Arafat. 
Sourani, a human rights ac­
tivist, said he was asleep in his 
villa at 12:30 a.m. Wednesday 
when the plainclothes police­
man arrived and told him to 
come to the city jail. 
"It's an order from the lead­
ership," the officer said, ac­
cording to Sourani's wife Amal. 
On Monday, Sourani had pub­
licly denounced Arafat for 
ordering the establishment of 
special military courts that will 
try Islamic militant opponents 
of PLO rule. 
The incident raised new 
questions about how the PLO 
chief deals with dissent and 
came amid fresh reports of 
beatings and humiliation of de­
tainees in Gaza's police lock­
ups. 
Over the weekend. the New 
York-based Human Rights 
Watch said in a report that 
Arafat's government often 
aeted in a "repressive fashion." 
It complained of arbitrary ar-

Lisa Yerian! 
We love you! 
GALWAY KINNEL 

. This is your last chance to be LITERARY. So what are you waiting for? 
8pm Tonight in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
1995 SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 

rests, jailhouse beatings and the lack of due process. 
Palestinian officials acknowl­edged Wednesday that there have been some transgressions by the security forces but de­nied there was a policy of sys­tematic abuse. 
"No one is more concerned about safeguarding Palestinian human rights than we are," the chief Palestinian prosecutor, Khaled Kidreh. told The Assoeiated Press. 
"Human rights organizations should deal with us as a sover­eign, democratic. state and not as our custodians." 
Arafat has been under grow­ing pressure from Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin to arrest and try Islamic militants involved in a rash of deadly at­tacks on Israelis. Rabin told Arafat last week that he would not negotiate a troop with­drawal from the West Bank until he complied. 
Israel has complained that previous arrest sweeps in which security forces rounded up scores of militants were ineffective because detainees were usually released after a few days. 
The sweeps have created an atmosphere of paranoia and tension in Gaza. 
Happy 21st Birthday 

This is compounded by a growing number of secret ser­vice agents who belong to eight different agencies created by Arafat. The agents lack a clear mandate and often ·cause re­sentment because of what many Gazans perceive as a high-handed attitude. 
Recently, a reporter saw a se­cret service agent spit at a taxi driver in Gaza City. The agent cursed the driver because he didn't make way quickly enough for the speeding secret service van. 
Many Palestinian hesitate to file complaints against the se­curity forces, fearing retribu­tion. 
Nassar Falleet, a teacher in the town of Deir Balah, recalled an incident two months ago when he was driving a car he had just bought that day. He was stopped by seven police­men at gunpoint who forced him to get out and hand over the keys. 
Falleet, 47, said he has tried to see Arafat six times to get his car back, but was roughly turned away from the PLO chiefs headquarters. He said his lawyer refused to take the case to court for fear of reprisals. 
Russia, Chechnya agree to truce 
By JULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 
SLEPTSOVSK, Russia 
Russian and Chechen officials reportedly agreed to a tempo­rary cease-fire today. despite skepticism and widespread vio­lations of an earlier truce. 
The 48-hour truce was sched­uled to take effect at midnight, Chechen field commander Shamil Basayev was quoted as telling Russian news agencies. 
Negotiations on a longer-last­ing peace are to resume Friday in this town in the Ingushetia 
This is it!!! 
Settlers claim arrests politically motivated 
By GWEN ACKERMAN Associated Press 
HEBRON, West Bank 
Dozens of police arrested a founder of the Jewish settler movement and his wife today after scuffling with angry set· tiers who threw stones and eggs to keep officers away. 
Settler leaders said the ar­rests were politically motivat­ed and said police used exces­sive force in taking into cus­tody Rabbi Moshe Levinger 
'and hls wife. Miriam. Both were charged with assault. 
The arrests came at a time of heightened friction in this city of 80,000 Palestinians and 450 Jews: Both groups were marking the first anniversary of a Jewish settler's massacre of 29 Muslims at a Hebron mosque. 
Settler leader Noam Arnon accused the government of us­ing the arrests to incite the Is· raeli public against the Hebron settlements and pave the way for dismantling them. The gov­ernm.ent has announced no 
· such plans. At 5:30 a.m., dozens of 
republic just west of Chechnya, the ITAR-Tass and Interfax news agencies said. 
A preliminary agreement had been reached Monday for the two sides to stop using heavy artillery and to begin working out an exchange of war prison­ers and dead. 
But that cease-fire was punc­tuated by widespread artillery and missile attacks in the area south of the Chechen capital. 
Russia and others question whether any cease-fire will be obeyed by Chechens fighting 

~~asYlif~ teili 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets & Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Clft Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 

(219)277-1291
South Bend, IN 46637 

Accounting Majors: 
The Notre Dame Accounting Association invites you to a faculty-student mixer on' Thursday, February 16 at 4:30p.m. around the globe in Hurley. 
There will be pizza and refreshments! 
independently of forces loyal to Chechen President Dzhokhar Dudayev. Even the lead Chechen negotiator at the talks in Ingushetia, Asian Maskhadov. has warned that he does not control those volun­teers. 
"The Chechen side is a lot of small groups who act how they 

· want to," said Zhabrail Bo­gatyrev, spokesman for the In­terior Ministry of Ingushetia that is brokering the talks. "And the army is the army ­it's like a car that's in motion and it's not going to stop." 
police and women soldiers arrived at the Levingers' home in the Avraham Avinu enclave in the heart ofHebron to take Mrs. Levinger to a court hear· ing. 
Mrs. Levinger repeatedly failed to appear in court to an­swer charges that she assault­ed an Israeli security officer in Hebron several months ago, said Nathan Kamarsky. deputy police commander in the West Bank. 
Kamarsky said police con­tacted Levinger on Tuesday night and told him officers would be arriving early today to take in his wife. Levinger said the officers would be pelt­ed with stones if they neared his house, Kamarsky said. 
Settlers carried out Lovinger's tpreats. "They threw stones at us and eggs and water .. . and as a result, we had to go in by force," Ka­marsky told Israel radio. 
Settler Orit Struck told Israel army radio that police "came with clubs, hammers. and ev· eryone who tried to get near was pushed aside by force." 


~~-----------~------~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 16, 1995 
Cease-fire declared in Salvi pleads innocent to 01urders 
By RICHARD LORANT the Planned Parenthood and tine in murder cases.
Peru, Ecuador conflict 

Associated Press Preterm Health Services clinics Norfolk County District Attor­
By LYNN MONAHAN 
Associated Press 
LIMA, Peru 
Peruvian forces began to pull back troops and tanks Wednes­day from populated areas of the border with Ecuador, a day after a shaky cease-fire took hold. 
More than half the troops and at least 300 tanks have re­turned to their bases, said Car­los Calero of the government radio station in Tumbes, 18 miles from the border with Ecuador. 
"The tension has dissipated and the population is calm," Calero said. 
A cease-tire went into effect at noon Tuesday. No lighting was reported Wednesday, although both sides reported fighting Tuesday. 
Hostilities erupted Jan. 26 over an unmarked 48-mile stretch of border that is said to contain valuable minerals, in­cluding gold and oil. At least 49 soldiers have been killed and 100 wounded. 
The two countries fought a war in 1941 over the remote section of rain forest in the Cordillera del Condor mountain range. 
Peruvian officials said Tues­day they had begun to pull ar­mored units back to their bases. But on Ecuador's side of the border. troops remained on alert. 
Ecuador's military claimed late Tuesday that Peru was 
The Department of Music 
{juest Jlrtist Series presents 
I~J I \OCQUC or nrnJISSJnrr I.;rJnrr 
The .Baltimore 
moving two battalions, includ­ing tank units, to the northern border from its southern fron­tier with Chile. Peru did notre­spond to the accusation. 
Officials in both countries have accused the other of es­tablishing "false posts" to sup­port claims of victory. 
Peru accused Ecuador of raining artillery fire Tuesday on a base it had seized at Tiwintza. Ecuador denied the charge, but confirmed fighting occured. 
While the fighting appeared to have abated, the propaganda war continued. 
Ecuador escorted journalists to a post said that its military said was Tiwintza, but at the same time Peruvian officials were saying Tiwintza was un­der attack. 
Fujimori left Wednesday for the conflict zone with selected Peruvian journalists, and planned to visit Tiwintza and two other bases he says were taken from Ecuadorean forces. 
Peru's Gen. Daniel Mora, head of the army's information office, told reporters Tuesday that Tiwintza was a zone of about 12 square miles. 
While adamant that Peruvian troops had taken the base, he admitted the area had not been secured. He said Ecuadorean units were in the area and it would be several days before they were able to return to Ecuador over the rough ter­rain. 

DEDHAM, Mass. 
The man accused of killing two women in attacks on abor­tion clinics pleaded innocent to­day to state charges that could put him in prison for life. 
John C. Salvi III was un­shaven during his arraignment and his eyes roamed around the courtroom. Security was ex­tremely heavy and he wore a bulletproof vest under a blue blazer. 
In a clear voice, Salvi pleaded innocent in Norfolk County Su­perior Court to two counts of first-degree murder and five counts of assault with intent to murder in the Dec. 30 attacks in the Boston suburb of Brook­line. He was arrested Dec. 31. 
Federal authorities have said they will defer their prosecu­tion of Salvi until his state trial is over. 
Salvi allegedly walked into Dec. 30 and opened fire with a .22-caliber rifle. The riext day he was arrested in Norfolk, Va., after he allegedly fired 20 shots at a building that housed an abortion clinic there. Nobody was hurt in the Norfolk attack. 
Prosecutor John Kivlan said Salvi had prepared for the killings as early as Oct. 11, when he purchased a .22-cal­iber handgun. 
Inside one of the clinics, Kivlan said, one victim pleaded "No, no, no!" before Salvi shot her. He said Salvi shouted "something to the effect of, 'This is what you get. Pray the rosary."' 
Salvi's next court appearance was set for March 8. 
Salvi, a 22-year-old appren­tice hairdresser from Hampton, N.H., was indicted Tuesday. He initially pleaded innocent in Brookline District Court; the switch to Superior Court is rou­ney William Delahunt said Salvi's trial could begin in Octo­ber or November. Salvi faces maximum sentences of manda­tory life in prison without parole for each murder charge. 
In federal court, Salvi could face charges carrying the death sentence -killing someone with a tirearm while commit­ting a federal crime, in this case violating the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act. 
U.S. Attorney Donald Stern said Attorney General Janet Reno approved of the decision to wait out the state prosecu­tion. He also said he was putting off a decision about whether to seek a death-penal­ty case against Salvi. 
"All options are open," Stern said at a news conference. 
Salvi earlier was arraigned in Virginia before being returned to Massachusetts on federal fugitive charges. 
--------~~ ~---------------~-~-----, 
Thursday, February 16, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Pioneer: New PC line Radioactive waste sent to Japan 
to use Apple syste01 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

France is proceeding with plans to ship highly radioactive waste to· Japan this month, de­spite protests from 14 govern­ments and various environ­mental groups. 
The shipment, involving waste stored in glass blocks in a heavy container, is the first of its kind. Environmentalists say it represents a dangerous new turn in the transport of nuclear materials by sea. 
At least 14 governments, in­eluding Puerto Rico and the 
U.S. Virgin Islands, have protested the shipment, the environmental group Green­peace told a news conference Wednesday. 
Greenpeace also said a group of U.S. congressmen has asked President Clinton to try to delay the shipment and use the Navy to keep nuclear shipments from 
U.S. territorial waters. 
France, reprocessing spent Japanese nuclear fuel, has been shipping recycled plutonium back to Japan since November 1992. But Japan is required under French law to also take back the waste residue, which is far more radioactive. 
Greenpeace says a person would get a lethal dose of radiation by standing a yard from one of the 1,000-pound blocks for one minute. 
Cogema, the French waste processor, and its British ship­per insist they have taken ade­quate precautions. British Nu­clear Fuels Ltd. has asked a French court to bar Greenpeace from interfering with the ship­ment. The court is expected to rule Monday. 
Cogema won't say when the ship will sail this month or the route it will take. The ship could travel through the Caribbean and the Panama Canal, around South America or the tip of Africa once it leave_s Cherbourg on France's Atlantic seaboard. 
On board will be a 112-ton cask of 28 cylindrical blocks of molten glass mixed with highly radioactive waste, then hard­ened. Environmentalists worry the ship and the steel cask are not strong enough to withstand a fire or collision. "These trans­ports are not being made in a safe fashion. Their plans are inadequate," Greenpeace. 
spokesman Damon Moglen said Wednesday. "We will make ev­ery effort to track this ship and to inform the countries at risk. 
"We want to block this trans­port through the countries along the route," he said. 
The group demanded more information from France, Britain and Japan on the ship­ment, its safety and who would be responsible in an accident. It also demanded a study of the environmental damage should there be a disaster. 
The group organized protests in Cherbourg in November 1992 when the first shipment of processed plutonium left for Japan. State-owned Cogema has since reported one or two of those shipments a year with­out incident. 
Jean-Louis Ricaud, Cogema's vice president in charge of re­processing, said the route of the latest shipment is secret for se­curity reasons. "The ship doesn't present any danger," he said in a telephone inter­view. 
The ship is to arrive at Mutsu-Ogawara Port near a nuclear waste storage site on the northern tip of Japan's Honshu Island, 340 miles from Tokyo. 

By DAVID THURBER 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

Pioneer Electronic Corp. to­day became the first Japanese company to announce a line of personal computers using Ap­ple Computer's Macintosh op­erating system. 
Pioneer's announcement ­which had been expected -is a victory for Apple, which has been trying to license the Mac operation system in an effort to compete against Microsoft Win­dows, used by most of the world's personal computers. 
Pioneer, chiefly an audio-vi­sual electronics maker, said its first entries in the competitive PC market will use circuit boards supplied by Apple. Pio­neer plans to include additional software that allows the com­puters to control laser disc players. 
With it, laser disc movies can be played directly on the com­puter's monitor or on a televi­sion set, and scenes can be stored on the computer's hard disk for editing. · 
Windows' domination of the PC market has caused some software developers to turn away from the Macintosh, and Apple hopes to lure them back by boosting the Mac operating system's market share. 
Apple -which for many years refused to license its Mac system -has already an­nounced licenses for two Amer­ican companies: Power Com­puting, a PC clone maker; and Radius, a maker of high-end graphics equipment. 
But it has yet to find any tak­ers among the large computer companies that specialize in IBM clones. 
"Licensing the Mac OS is cru­cial for Apple's future," said David Kellar, an analyst for market researcher !DC Japan. "They need to get some major computer makers to make Mac clones before it will have any signifi.~ant impact on market share. 
Pioneer said pricing and overseas marketing plans haven't been decided, but said it is aiming at the middle of the current Macintosh price range -likely to be somewhere be­tween $2,000 and $3,000. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• ..•CONSIDERATIONS 
...JPW 

Each February, a special "Notre Dame Moment" takes place on cam­pus as we celebrate Junior Parent Weekend. Most undergrads inform their parents about the weekend during Freshman year, and the planning begins. It doesn't matter whether any partic~lar February weekend is of the normal South Bend variety or whether we are under the moderating influence of El Nino. 
JPW is a wonderful milestone for juniors and for their parents. It i~ a time for a son or daughter and their parents to recognize mutually a passage from adolescence to young adulthood. It is a period of two days when a young man or woman takes time to thank their father and mother who have been so intrinsically involved in the passage and in every moment of life which led to the transition. The debt of grati­tude of a child is rarely more clear; the sense of pride of parents in the accomplishments of their child will not often be more deeply felt or cele­brated. JPW is an occasion when parents can be intorduced to friends and when they can meet the parents of those who have become lifelong friends over the course of five semesters. Notre Dame prides itself in the sense of family which is actively pro­moted because of who we have been and are as an educational commu­nity. And Junior Parent Weekend is, above all, a celebration of family. Like so many others, I love this special weekend. I really enjoy it when l have a chance to greet the parents of juniors, even if only for the first time since Freshman Orientation Weekend and for the last time until Commencement. I hope that Notre Dame will always be a place where we celebrate the values of family and provide moments for Notre Dame families to celebrate their love and devotion. There is no better way to do this than to celebrate the Eucharist together, as a family, and to thank God for the innumerable blessings that come to us through people whose lives are simply a series of loving sacrifices. But I am also keenly aware that this special moment is not necessar­ily a happy one for every Notre Dame junior. I hope that Notre Dame will always be a place where we understand and appreciate the difficult 
circumstances some of our friends who are juniors face and the feelings they experience. 
Some have lost a parent to death. I think of them and I pray that the promises ofJesus which our faith holds out to us will be a source of consolation for them, and that they may understand that their parent prays for them before the Risen Lord. 
I think, too, about other students who have had to face and partic­ipate in a separation or divorce with wrenching consequences regardless of whether the estrangement is amicable or contested. Their circum­stances, too, are celebrated around the same altar where we remember love beyond all telling, and where the love of their father and mother is also present. 
In the coming years, the number of juniors for whom Junior Parent Weekend will not be amoment to look forward to will increase, slowly but surely. 
The love of Jesus Christ is always ours because of our common faith. No person and no circumstance stands beyond the reach of God's loving, healing and forgiving embrace. 
Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
WEEKEND PREsiDERS 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 
Sat. February 18  5:00p.m.  Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P.  
Sun. February 19  10:00 a.m.  Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. John Pearson, C.S.C.  

SCIPTURE READINGS FOR THIS COMING SUNDAY 
1ST READING  1 Samuel26: 2, 7,9, 12,13, 22,23  
2ND READING  1 Corinthians 15: 45,49  
GosPEL  Luke 6: 27,38  

~--------------~------------~----------~------------~-----------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 16, 1995 

The Observer/Nicky Batill 
Industrial arts 
Kate Dougherty, a sculpting major, works her magic by welding. 
Gender brain processes different, but equal 

Gingrich: Rely on US, not UN 
By DONALD ROTHBERG 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
H o u s e Republicans p u s h e d a h e a d Wednesday with legisla­tion to put their stamp on fore!ignand defense Gingrich 

policy, brushing aside President Clinton's· complaint that their effort "represents an assault on the authority of the president." 
As debate got under way in the House, Speaker Newt Gin­grich told a news conference that "having watched this ad­ministration, we disagree deeply with the way they would risk American lives around the planet." 
Gingrich singled out what he called the administration's "willingness to rely on the United Nations instead of the United States." 
"This bill represents an as­sault on the authority of the president as commander in chief," Clinton told Gingrich in a letter dated Tuesday. 
The president never used the word "veto" but made it clear that was a likely outcome. 
"The bill contains numerous flawed provisions that are sim­ply unacceptable," wrote Clin­ton. 
He concluded the letter by calling the measure "bad na­tional security policy" that would "set us on a collision course with some of our closest allies." 
House leaders hope to con­clude action on the measure Thursday. But even if that goal is reached, the measure would be a long way from Clinton's desk. No comparable measure has been filed in the Senate. 
The bill incorporates the for­eign and defense elements of the Republican "Contract With America," including cuts in 
U.S. 
support for U.N. peace­keeping, prohibition of placing 

U.S. 
forces under foreign com­mand and an accelerated push for a national missile defense system. 


The American people would be shocked to learn that the administration and its allies in Congress think that the presi­dent should have a free hand to put American forces under for­eign command," said Rep. Benjamin Gilman, R-N.Y., chairman of the House Interna­tional Relations Committee. 
Leading the opposition to the bill, Rep. Lee Hamilton, D-Ind., Gilman's predecessor of chair­man of the International Rela­tions Committee, said passage of the bill would leave the pres­ident with no option but "to act alone or do nothing." 
At the Pentagon, Defense Secretary William Perry said the proposal for pushing ahead with a national missile defense system "would divert money from more pressing needs: readiness, theater missile de­fense and force moderniza­tion." 
The Pentagon also released a letter from five former military leaders who said the bill "would impose onerous and unnecessary restrictions on the president's ability to place U.S. forces under the operational control of other nation's mili­tary leaders for U.N. opera­tions." 
The signers included retired Gen. David Jones, a former Air Force chief of staff and former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. 
Before the formal debate be­gan, the House was tied up with nearly three hours of par­tisan arguing over time limits. The Republican majority pushed through a rule that would limit the time to 12 hours. The Democrats argued unsuccessfully for no time limit. 
Supporters of the bill argued that it would not tie the hands of the president because it con­tained standard provisions al­lowing him to bypass its restrictions in cases where he determines it is in the national interest. 
By MALCOLM RITTER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Scientists say they have found a sex difference in how the brain handles a crucial lan­guage task, providing new evi­dence that men's and women's brains differ. 
When a man mentally breaks a word into its individual sounds, he concentrates the job on the left side of his brain. But a woman uses both sides of the brain almost equally to do the same thing, researchers report. 
Despite this difference, men and women did the task equally well in the study. That shows "the brain has great versatility in processing language and in reading," said researcher Dr. Sally Shaywitz. 
The work provides new evi­dence for a long-held idea that the brain concentrates lan­guage-related jobs on the left side much more in men than it does in women. Previous stud­ies have been inconclusive. 
"This finding is an extremely important milestone in our un­derstanding of language abil­ity," said G. Reid Lyon, director of extramural research pro­grams in learning disabilities at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Develop­ment. The institute supported the work with grants. 
The finding suggests women have a brain reserve for lan­guage ability in case of damage or malfunctioning in the left side of the brain, he said. 
That might help women re­cover better from language problems caused by strokes, and explain why girls with a reading disability end up read­ing better than boys with the problem, he said. 
The study, in which volun­teers' brains were scanned as they did a variety of tasks, shows that.scientists can track where specific language tasks are done in the brain, Shaywitz said. That should give insight into problems like reading dis­abilities, she said. 
Shaywitz and her husband, Dr. Bennett Shaywitz, who are co-directors of the Yale Center for the Study of Learning and Attention at the Yale University School of Medicine, present the work with colleagues in Thur­day's issue of the journal Na­ture. 
They studied 19 men and 19 women with a recently devel­oped technique called function­al magnetic resonance imaging, which can show which parts of the brain are being activated while a person does a particu­lar task. 

Please come to hear REV. EDWARD A. MALLOY C.S.C 
Speak on 



Pangborn Hall Social Space Monday Feb. 20th 9:00p.m. 
Male & Female models needed: 
for free haircuts, perms, semi­permanent &permanent hair color 
for advanced training in the most progressive Michiana salon 
Call us now and schedule your new look! 
272-1225 
Models will -receive 20%. off A veda® products the day ofthe visit 
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, February 16, 1995 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lu= J oscph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylaytcr Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Scan Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Krisren Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Univcrsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spans Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commrntaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available 10 all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

Things were looking rosy for big Mudville, Inc. that year. They had bought another station and were selling loads of beer. So when the season ended with a strike, "Hey, that's a shame! But this is business; said the owners, "not some sweet and childish game: 
When the owners dug their heels in, and the players did the same, A strange and awful hush fell over students of the game. With all the talk of contracts, of bottom line and loss, It could be more than revenue this baseball strike has cost. 
Kids are playing soccer, when you tell'em, "Let's play ball!" They strap on gaudy sneakers and go dribble in some hall. Willy's now a killer whale, and Mickey's jUst a mouse: DiMaggio, some guy named Joe, who sold coffee house to house. 
Oh, somewhere on some future day a dad might take his son To the ballpark for a hot dog <that's eight bucks with the bun). The kid will watch a hero sign a baseball for a fee, And ask his aging father, "Mighty Casey? Who is he?" 
• SOCIETY WHIRL 

You get what you ask for. • • 
Well, so it's come to this. Even my melancholy column of Thursday last, "Partying Isn't What It Used To Be," has inspired comments from my de­tractors. Kevin Krause and John Von lleyking, the men behind the party I wrote about, have sent a letter to The Observer. 

Josh 
Ozersky I I 
"With ... advanced warning," wrote Krause and Von Heyking of my announcement that I planned to attend their soiree, "we were able to take appropriate precautions. [Pretty mean-spirited, I say!] As a public service, The Observer might consider printing Mr. Ozersky's intended social calender on a regu­lar basis. In this way, others-thus forewarned-might be similarly forearmed. "No sooner said than done, boys! Below, submitted for the use of the South Bend beau monde, is my social calender for February. 
17: Friday. Sneak in Govt. mail­room, check in boxes for directions to possible parties. English dept? 8 pm: handicapped students ball­free refreshments (YES!). Bring crutch. 10 p.m.-drinks with Father Malloy. Walsh panty-raid? 
18: Saturday. Wine and cheese party at Pasquerilla Center-what to wear? 9 p.m.-surprise appearance at mall opening gala in Elkhart, In. or Niles, Mi. Invite Donna from Chick-Fil-A; use district admin­
• 000NESBURY 

istrator routine. 12 a.m., Club 23. Remember to move cards from rows to discard piles early. Also practice Johnny Cage shadow kick. 3 a.m., veal patty/wonder bread/ Sportscenter. 
22: Wednesday. Washington's Birthday. History dept. bash at Corby Hall; pick up wig, tap, papers at Moreau Seminary. Bring Donna? or poss. Judi from Bob Evans. Use sales coordinator rou­tine. Pick up Depends for drinking game. 1 a.m.: study Perry Miller on puritans for Prof. Gleason. 
23: Thursday. Dinner w/trustees at 7. Get roman collar starched; practice Father Hesburgh imitation. Easy on firewater-no mooning, etc. 10 p.m.-address Mishawaka Ro­tarians, head to bath-house, bring tabs of X. 1 a.m.-Miller on J. Edwards. 
24: Friday. S. Bend Chamber of Commerce brunch, accept ND dona­tions (cash). 3 p.m.-Kick Jerry Meek's ass. 7 p.m.-dinner with Zomyra from Peace House, pick up freshly slaughtered antelope from Martin's (order ahead). Try for wild thing, practice weeping if rejected. Play sensitive American routine. 9 p.m.-bring Tse Whan to see Jerky Boyz-if popcorn trick doesn't work, excuse self to go next door and hoot "0 BABY!" and "You are FINE!" at 
Little Women. 

25: Saturday. Cruise bus station, whack oldsters for S.S. $; catch early mass. 5-stop by Save the Children Donation Fair, snake packages. 9 p.m.-party at Charlie Rice's house, bring Jagermeister. Or cinema at Snite. (w/ Zomyra? Tse Whan? Betty?) Wear new black camel's-hair jacket, Dior tie. Remember to wear socks, underwear! 11:30, poetry reading at Cafe Capote (or is that Friday?). Memorize "The Waste Land" with special "poontang" vers­es; or alt. Keats poem about base­ball. 1 a.m.-drop in at Biochem rave at 3325 McKinley (no door). 4 a.m.-dehydrated hash browns. 
26: Sunday. Give homily at Basilica on "Mary-She Can Turn the World On With Her Smile," then lunch with Krista Nannery. Remem. to leave wallet at home-"woops," etc. 6 p.m.-select monkey at Nieuwland Science Center for Alba­nian Students banquet. Pick fez up from cleaners. Polish tiny hammers. 
28: Tuesday. Motivational dinner w/Coach Holtz. Wear Armani trench coat w/ big pockets for dinner rolls, fruit, etc. Tell Lombardi fetish anec­dote. 9 p.m.-Archie's. 10 p.m.­
'Thursday. Dinner 
w/trustees at 7. Get roman collar starched; prac­tice Father Hesburgh imita­tion. Easy on firewater-no 
mooning, etc. 10 p.m.­address Mishawaka Ro­tarians, head to bath-house, bring tabs of X. 1 a.m.­Miller on J. Edwards. 
Hindu students dinner with Ganesha, vegetarian. 12­Jazzman's, remember to pack Glock 9, wear phat jeans and Bulls hat. Haille Sailasse shirt? Clack den­tures at young SMC foxes, lean on alum. walker provocatively. 3 a.m.-Veal patties, milk. 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate stu­dent in history. His e-mail address is joshua. a. ozersky.l@nd. edu 
• LEnER TO THE EDITOR 
Writer misinterprets GLND/SMC mission 
Dear Editor:' 

In his letter to the Observer, published Feb. 13, Jay Town argued that the Administration's decision to bar GLND/SMC from meeting at the Counseling Center was justified. His argument was based upon the inaccurate and misleading premise that GLND/SMC "fosters" and "pro­motes" sexual activity. "If not to do this, then why bother with the formation of the group and the unity of its members?" he asked. 
GLND/SMC was formed for the purpose of sup­port, education, and outreach. For instance, we have held biweekly support group meetings for those who are just beginning to come to terms with their sexual orientation. We have invited speakers such as Ron Nyswaner. Peter Cicchino. and Andrew Sullivan to campus in order that everyone may learn more about such topics as the reality and danger of AIDS, gay and lesbian civil rights issues, and the integration of faith and sexuality. We encourage debate and discus­sion. We have made every effort to remain visi­ble. and that visibility helps dismantle stereo­types, knock down barriers of prejudice. Hopefully this will create a truer sense of com­munity at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
GLND/SMC does not encourage or promote sexual activity. Such activity does not occur. and would not be permitted to occur, at any of our events. We also refuse to tolerate sexuaJ harass­ment of any kind. It seems to me that much of the opposition to GLND/SMC is based upon mis­conceptions about the nature and purpose of the organization. In Town's own words. "it becomes an issue of sexual activity ... not sexual orienta­tion." 
There is no rational or moral justification for the Administration's treatment of GLND/SMC. Officially recognized gay and lesbian groups exist at DePaul, l..oyola, Georgetown, Fordham, St. Edward's (significantly run by the Congregation of the Holy Cross), Catholic Univer­sity, and several other Catholic institutions of higher learning. Isn't it time Notre Dame and Saint Mary's joined their peers? 
KELLY SMITH Co-Chair GLND/SMC 
GOOt:J 01-' NCNT!H& OIMe 
7J.II?OUGH U/ITH TH& FUNI?S 
R:ROUR FCA?/81/JTY 
57UPY.' ~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
NO, NO... ?HIS 
/~CHICI<&N 
f£itl1. 1'V&6tJT 708t{)/St/­
P/..INW. 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''No one can make you feel inferior without your consent." 
-Anna Eleanor Roosevelt 
ACCENT 
Thursday, February 16, 1995 
She Stoops to Conquer 
An antiquated play offers modern perspective on life and love 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Accent Writer 
T
o those who are unfamiliar with Oliver Goldsmith or Notre Dame's Department of Com­munication and Theatre, She Stoops to Conquer may appear at first glance to be the title of the newest feminist semi­nar. Ask any theatre major, and they'll tell you instead that it is one of the most exciting and energetic performances coming to campus this year. 
The Drama Division of the renowned Juilliard School, which has trained such successful stage and movie actors as Robin Williams, Kevin Kline, Christopher Reeve and Kelly McGillis, will present Goldsmith's classic comedy beginning tonight thru Saturday in Washington Hall. 
Written by the Anglo-Irish poet and dramatist William Goldsmith in 1773, She Stoops to Conquer has endured due to its cleverly constructed plot and satir­ical humor. One of the best examples of farce in English comic drama, She Stoops to Conquer is a "laughing come­dy," perhaps because of its original pur­pose of wittily attacking the sentimental drama of the day. Director Maria Aitken has tried to utilize the energy and physicality of her young cast in order to make the production highly accessible to contemporary audiences. Aitken said that her intention is, "to delight the audiences and offend the English departments just as Goldsmith did in his day. This is not a high corne­dy." 
Bruce Auerbach, Notre Dame's Director of Theatre, urges students not to be influenced by the antiquity of the play. She Stoops to Conquer addresses modern issues such as dating, marriage, and family relationships. Auerbach de­scribes one of the characters as being, "right out of Animal House;" he empha­sizes how entertaining the work actually is. 
She Stoops to Conquer follows The Bacchae and Waiting for Godot as one of four period pieces the University's De­partment of Communication and Theatre is presenting this year. Along with the modern drama, This Country's Good, which will be presented April 5 thru 9, they hope this diversity will expose students to a broad historical range of theatre. 
Auerbach also believes that the influ­ence of the Juilliard troop is good for Notre Dame theatre students. Not only can they relate to these college-age per­formers, but they can strive towards this next level of achievement. Senior the­atre major Erin O'Malley agrees, noting that the Juilliard students provide a bridge between the real world of acting and the academic world. O'Malley adds that interacting with the Juilliard stu­dents, "provides a nice perspective on things," especially since many theatre majors are applying to Graduate Schools now. 
More than eight hundred actors audi­tion each year for fewer than twenty­five Juilliard acceptances. After serious study in stage movement, voice, acting and dance, they are not allowed to per­form for audiences until their final year. The cast, which includes Blair Singer as Tony, Leslie Silva as Constance and Steve Patrick Holt as Marlow, is extremely prepared, and will not even arrive in South Bend until the afternoon of the show. These students will partic­ipate in lectures and workshops with Notre Dame students during their time on campus. 

Some may wonder why this young cast would choose such an antiquated play, but a glimpse into the humorous plot reveals the reason. A middle aged cou­ple named The Hardcastles attempt to arrange marriages for their son and daughter, Tony and Kate. For Tom they choose Kate's best friend Constance, even though he dislikes her almost as much as she dislikes him. The Hard­castles invite a suitor named Marlow to meet their headstrong daughter Kate. 
The comedy unfolds as Marlow and his companion Hastings stop at a tavern because they have lost their way on their journey to meet the Hardcastle family. Tony recognizes the two yet does not introduce himself. Instead, he directs them to an "inn up the road," which is actually the Hardcastles' home. The two young men unknowingly treat the Hardcastles as if they were servants. Mr. Hardcastle is left with the impres­sion that he has made a terrible decision in choosing a suitor. Constance meets Hastings and not only does she reveal Tony's practical joke, but together, they decide to keep the mistaken identities a secret. Goldsmith creates an incredibly funny scenario, which successfully sati­rizes the pretenses of the English society he intended to target. 
Performances will be held at Washington Hall from Thursday, February 16 thru Saturday, February 
18. Tickets can be purchased at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Box Office. 
The mature and serene voice of Galway Kinnel 
By JOHN GORMAN mortality are handled with a stands his connection with Accent Writer fervor and reflection that sepa­them. He does not cringe at rates Kinne! from his contem­the apparent filth in which 
We live in a time in which poraries. many creatures live. Rather, the mass media is capable of In the past, Kinne! frequently he points out that humans live producing celebrities struggled with the idea of in conditions that are also overnight, often regardless of death. He once said, "It's nec­impure, and we may even be their talent, virtue or longevi­essary to understand, to know less clean than many animals. ty. Some men and women about, birth and death." He His poems magnify how there seem to embody all of these believes: "A view of life is not is little difference between a characteristics as they make a valid unless it includes every­squirrel or swine, and a name for themselves in their thing, including the worst." human. respective fields. Yet, they still Some feel that these atti­Sharon Olds once summed remain virtually obscure to the tudes make Kinne! a pessimist up Kinnel's attitude towards fast-paced, material-oriented or a fatalist, but the way in humans in relation to animals. public. Such are poets. which he approaches the sub­She said, "He sees what has 
A heartfelt stanza and a ject only reveals that he is a been seen as vile as simply poignant simile appears to be realist. lie has a grip on mor­human." Olds thinks of an ineffective form of commu­tality that tempers his fear. Kinnel's view as a spiritual nication in an age when words This type of realism can be experience which can be diffi­and emotions have more value comforting to readers who are cult to comprehend. in a courtroom than in the trying to cope with their own Kinnel's brilliance is best palm of one's hand. mortality. His words should be demonstrated by his poetry 
However, if one seeks out seen as a form of convales­readings. Since poets are most these anomalies, he or she cence rather than an alert to adept at reading their own may find a seldomly explored something ominous. pieces, they add a flavor to the world that entertains and Regarding nature, Kinne! print which cannot be tasted reaches out to who we really has experienced it much in the by even the most scrupulous are. One only has to look as far same way of Henry David readers. Kinne! passionately as Galway Kinne! to feel a Thoreau. He has always been provides his audiences with an whisp of poetry's gentle heav­close to the magnificence of intimacy of the text that only ings. Vermont's mountains and he can uncover. To him, a 
Mr. Kinne! comes to Notre woods, and he understands his poetry reading is active and Dame from the creative writ­optimal role amidst it. He has sets the words into motion. 
ondary to him. Not only does Kinnel's most recent produc­
ing department of New York also been in close contact to The opportunity to see a
he cry out for himself, but he tion is 1994's Imperfect Thirst, 
University with accolades that Vermont's antithesis, New man of this calibre deliver a
also cries out to those who are which is his twelfth compila­
most writers could only dream York City, and his dual habita­gasp of poetic excitement on
willing to free themselves from tion of poems. Some critics
of obtaining. He is the current tion has given him more our campus is rare. Galway
the manacles of the daily believe that this effort of
poet laureate of Vermont, has insight into humanity outside Kinne! will be reading tonight 
grind. He offers his wisdom to Kinnel's is his best ever. It
won both the Pulitzer Prize of nature. in the Hesburgh Library
aid in elevating their personal deals with themes that he has
and an American Book Award, Kinne! treats love differently Auditorium. After all, critic
well-being. As a point of com­grappled with in previous
and has received numerous than most, for in his mind love Sydney Lea once said, "When
parison, Kinnel's only prede­works, but these selections
grants an.d fellowships to aid extends beyond that of other he is good he is very, very
cessor as poet laureate of Ver­showcase a more mature and
in the pursuit of his art. human beings. He has an good." Kinne I will not fail to 
mont is Robert Frost -serene voice. Prominent
But this recognition is sec-affinity for animals and under-impress.
impressive company, indeed. themes of love, nature and 


;ACCENT
page 9 Thursday, February 16, 1995 
• MUSIC REVIEW 
Two new bands borrow ideals from the past 
1.4-...--.-:'·"'

By ROB ADAMS get. 
Music Critic If parallels today could be # drawn from The Sex Pistols to Prick Ministry and The Clash to Nine 
Priek lnterscopc Inch Nails, then Prick is today's equivalent to The Buzzcocks. Singer Kevin McMahon com­

***and 112 * 
(out of four) municates twisted views on top­ics from animals to love, taunt­

In the late 1970s, Great ing anyone who cannot handle Britain was plagued with an the stress of living in the 90's. extreme amount of turmoil and Trent Heznor of Nine Inch miscommunieation between the Nails helped produce the album, youngnr generation and their and his influence is definitely par1H1ts. Out of that irritation apparent. Songs are likely to rose one of rock music's most explode or diffuse at any given unexp1~ctcd success stories: moment, McMahon's screaming punk rock. The Sex Pistols and moans switch to a hushed whis­Tlw Clash n~igned over a group per without warning. of bands that were fed up with Unfortunately, the main down­the status quo and decided to fall of the album is that it relies do something about it through on Nine Inch Nails' museum of their musie. sound a bit too often, even toss­
The Buzzcocks was a band ing in a few obligatory ballads from that era that doesn't al­for some irrelevant reason. ways get the credit it deserves. "Everything Prick writes It wasn't as outrageous as the sounds wrong," he says. Nine Sex Pistols or as socially rele­Inch Nails deals with pain and 
vant as The Clash. but it creat­sorrow from a first-person, di­Photo courtesy of David Geffen Company Three Mile Pilot's sounds are comparable to Nine Inch Nails in The Chief Assassin to the Sinister. 
ed its own brand of punk music rectly-affected point of view. whieh was entertaining, raw, Prick, however, usually chooses other people's lives. in the '90s, Three Mile Pilot treading on ice which very fewand most notably, mocking of to stand back and attack from a "Communique," the first and attempts to achieve a level of artists dare to explore.
just about anything. It wrote third-person perspective, like best track on the album, thrusts psychedelia through meander­"Aqua magnetic," an eight­music made to poke fun at how some sort of storyteller who forward with bombastic inten­ing and sweeping rock compo­minute song, provides a con­
terrible or extreme life eould gets pleasure from the pain in sity, dealing with a theme of sitions. The trio. consisting of stant drum rhythm and subter­miscommunication. "I Apolo­Armistead Burwell Smith IV ranean bass. Pall's distorted gise" ranges from its beginning (bass, vocals), Tom Zisner vocals and Smith's haunting of quick-paced madness to a (drums), and Pall (vocals), aims background vocals add to the swift bridge of acoustic melody. to produce rock music with an melancholy effect. 
"I can't get anything done unexpected edge -using only "Nothing's sacred/! don't with you shaking around like two instruments, with the focus want you to go through the vital that/1 can't take a poke at fun on Smith's bass. Although things that they say/Cause it's with that animal on your back," other instruments occasionally tearing you apart," Pall painful­McMahon sings, surrounded by seep in via guest appearances, ly moans on "Chenjesu," a song a mass of techno feedback. Three Mile Pilot usually creates of protection, named after one 
Regardless of the obvious a full, rich sound with only two of the band's favorite computer similarities to its mentors, Prick instruments. games. The song slowly builds has created a debut that is in­Three Mile Pilot isn't short on its levels of psychedelia into tense and varied enough to be on substance either. Five of the an explosive climax. enjoyable for fans of loud mu­ten songs on Chief Assassin to Three Mile Pilot's intentions sic, fans of depressing music, the Sinister are over five min­are in the right place, and they and even fans of fun music. utes long. Their noise structure seem like an interesting bunch, 
is similar to the patterns of but this debut is just not a goodThree Mile Pilot fractals, constantly weaving album. There are no hints of Chief Assassin to the Sinister their way throughout the land­melody, and most of the songs DGC Heco~ds scape. "We don't think of our­should end minutes before they selves as a traditional rock-n­actually do. Three Mile Pilot is roll band," says Smith, "we're a band with potential, nonethe­
(out of four) ** doing what comes naturally to less, and maybe they'll get it us, something that happens to together for the next effort. 
In the tradition of Pink Floyd be new and different." in the '70s, Loop in the '80s, Although not completely new or Rob Adams' Music Review and most recently, Mercury Hev different, Three Mile Pilot is appears every Thursday . 

emily delivers its own brand of punk 
By CHRISTIAN STEIN ous in their sound which includes loud contained anger with society and the tape. Its lyrics are so complex that they Mu~k Critic distorted guitars, crashing cymbals and need to release it. "Climb out of the leave hundreds of interpretations of the plenty of screaming. Yet there are also box, I'm with you, I'm with you." band's message. Musically, this song is 
Hecently. the modern rock industry. times when these punk trademarks are The first two songs are a test. They the coming of age, the complete maturi­whieh has always been concerned with put aside and smooth, intricate guitars, weed out Wlbelievers. Only those bold ty, and the musical union of emiLy's finding a new, progressive sound to ap­quiet drums and soft lyrics prevail. enough to continue listening are admit­three members. peal to its listeners, has taken a U-turn. The somber lyrics are given different ted into the dark world of emiLy's col­Essentially, "Fearless" pieces togeth­In the last few years there has been a connotations by Cannon. He alters his lective mind. er each band member's personal sound revival of the classic 80's punk rock voice from full fledged Johnny Rotten The last three tracks combine an into one awesome song. Deep underly­movement. rage to quiet, pleading distress. At­eerie mix of Alice and Chains and the ing meanings. complex music and ser­
Today, bands like Green Day. Bad tempting to understand the lyrics is a Sex Pistols with little pieces of Ned's mon-like singing give it mystery and Heligion and The Offspring are achiev­dillicult task, but it appears that anger and Rage spliced in. These are, of greatness. ing superstar status with their blend of towards society is the common theme of course, only semblances of emiLy's The last song "He Had A Loud Mind" tlw established alternative sound and this tape. sound, which is truly their own. leaves behind a warning. Cannon, 
' 
classic punk. This movement has Even though anger Is written all over This combination is no more appar­Larmoyeux and McEachern caution to spread around the world with incredi­this album, it is most noticeable on the ent than on the third song "Tactical." It be careful of authority and to not give ble success and has now arrived at first song "Beef." Cannon screams out begins in "Would?" -like fashion com­in to the pressures applied by society. Notre Dame in the form of campus his message to America, penetrating plete with a heavy bass line and single Be your own self, listen to no one, and band emiLy. through the loud guitars and drums. notes softly emerging from Cannon's in true Sex Pistols anarchistic fash­
Bass player Mike Larmoyeux and "The American dream, shot full of guitar. This builds, as does the antici­ion ... down with authority! drummer Doug McEachern are the holes. The American dream, a hand­pation of cymbals crashing. The loud EmiLy definitely has a unique sound backbone of emiLy. They are accompa­gun for everybody." In the chorus, he guitars, drums and monster power and is an acquired taste. Their music is nifJd by the hard. thrashing power­takes a personal stand against supers­chords rudely interrupt. best understood after a few listening chords of singer/guitarist .Joe Cannon. tars as he sings in true anarchistic Sex EmiLy is uncharacteristically con­sessions. but so was Pearl Jam's Vital­When the three get together on their Pistols fashion, "We are all thin rich tained and the song takes on a com­ogy. live song tape Dwayne Dibbley, they healthy superstars -Playing ourselves pletely different outlook than expected. Band member Doug McEachern can create songs that resemble a concoction on TV (I just want to play myself on TV, The somber music compliments simi­be contacted for tapes and seven­of Ned's Atomic Dustbin. The Sex Pis­then I'll be all I can be.)'' larly toned lyrics such as "Goodbye my inch's. tols, Hage Against The Machine and The second song, "Red Line Metro," friends, I've got to go to life." Alice in Chains. continues the trend of loud music and "Fearless" is by far the most sedate but Christian Stein's Music Review 
The band's punk rock roots are obvi-screaming lyrics. Cannon sings of self-at the same time intense song on the appears every other Thursday. 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, February 16, 1995 
Miller's 3llift Pacers; Cavs escape in overtime 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Reggie Miller scored 31 points on 10­of-15 shooting Wednesday night as the Indiana Pacers defeated the Detroit Pistons 114-88. 
Indiana won its fourth consecutive game at home over the Pistons, extend­ing Detroit's road losing streak to four. 
The Pacers, who broke a two-game losing streak, are 13-4 when scoring 100 points or more. Detroit is 7-24 when scoring less than 100. 
Joe Dumars led Detroit with 25 points, 16 in the first half. 
Miller had seven points during an 10-2 fourth-quarter run that allowed the Pacers to open up a 99-81 advantage. Miller, who tied a season high with seven rebounds, started the spurt with a 3-pointer at the 9:09 mark. 
Dale Davis completed a 3-point play with a free throw, and Derrick McKey hit an inside jumper to complete the scoring. 
Indiana, which connected on 31 of 35 from the free throw line overall, hit 15 of 16 foul shots in the first half. 
The Pacers used a 9-2 run to close out 
the first half, building a 59-53 lead at 
the break. Miller hit a 3-pointer and a 
pair of free throws during the run, 
which concluded with a basket by Vern 
Fleming, who had a team-high 11 points 
off the bench, as time expired. 
Mark Jackson, who made his first start since Jan. 14 for Indiana, had four assists and six rebounds. 

Detroit trailed at the break despite hit­ting 63 percent of its shots in the second quarter and 56 percent from the field for the half. 
Terry Mills and Dumars each scored 16 points in the first half for the Pistons. 
Cavaliers 100, Magic 99, OT 
CLEVELAND 
Terrell Brandon scored a career-high 31 points and sank the two winning free throws with 21.8 seconds left in over­time as the Cleveland Cavaliers beat the Orlando Magic 100-99 Wednesday night. 
The Cavs improved to 5-1 in overtime games and made Mike Fratello the 24th NBA coach to reach 400 career victo­ries. 
Orlando, which had a three-game win­ning streak end, has lost its last three road games. 
Shaquille O'Neal led the Magic with 26 points, 16 in the first half. Dennis Scott had 19, including a 3-pointer with 12.3 seconds to play in regulation that sent the game to overtime tied at 91. 
O'Neal gave the Magic their last lead at 99-98 when he made one of two foul shots with 35.1 seconds to go in the extra period. 
But Brandon -fouled as Anfernee Hardaway blocked his jumper from behind -made both free throws to put Cleveland ahead 100-99. 
Orlando had a chance to win at the end, but Hardaway, guarded closely by Bobby Phills, clanged a fallaway jumper off the front of the rim. Cleveland's Chris Mills picked up the rebound as the buzzer sounded. 
Brandon was 12-for-15 from the floor, including 2-for-2 on 3-pointers. Danny Ferry scored 15 off the bench on 6-of-7 shooting, including three 3­pointers, and Tyrone Hill had 17 rebounds. 
Hardaway was limited to nine points, nearly 12 under his average, on 4-for­13 shooting. 
The Magic fell to 6-2 in overtime games. 

Dale Davis' three point play helped Indiana cap a10-2 fourth quarter run to put away the Pistons 114-88. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

REWARD OFFERED lor KEYS  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  Wanted:  Thursday at 7:30pm there will be a  SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­ 
NOTICES  lost somewhere between C1 and the Rock. Please call  GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR  5 students lor completely remod­eled home. Close to N.D. large rec.  ••·coNFIDENTIAL••• ••sUPPORT GROUP**  DON & ROME FOR ND/SMC STU· DENTS TRAVEL IN IRE,SCOT,  
232-1348.  RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  room, washer and dryer, security  dealing with the issues of COMING  FR, GER. & SWITZ. COURSES  
Passenger 57  (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD·  system. Rent lor summer school  OUT. This is a group lor people  AVAILABLE IN BUEC, ED, HIST,  
Thursday Feb 16 $1.00  A week ago Thursday morning  UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  and/or fall semester. Call NOW  who are questioning their sexuality  ITALIAN, PSYCH.MEETING IN ND  
Lafortune's Montgomery Theatre  between the stadium parking lot  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  277-0636  or have friends or family who are  LIBRARY LOUNGE, FEB. 20 AT  
8/1030pm  and Declo faculty hall, someone  VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­ dealing with the issue of HOMO­ 6:30PM. STUDENTS, FAC, PIZZA  
picked up a dark green smoke  DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800·  SMALL FURNISHED ROOM FOR  SEXUALITY. For more information  SOCIAL. CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK  
FLYING FINGERS TYPING SER­ case which had a solid brass  265-7691  RENT. WALK TO CAMPUS.  call the Q-line at287-6665 today  284-4460 (OFC) OR 272-3726  
VICE. The Best in Quality Typing &  lighter in it with my initials CTL on  $150/MO.INCL. UTILITIES.  between 8pm and 1 Opm.... and  (HOME)  
Word Processing. We specialize in  the outside. They were both gills  SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS &  287-2159.  remember there is someone OUT  
student papers  I would like to have returned. II you  STAFF BOYS SPORTS  there who cares!  SHENANIGANS  
(including Scientific, Spanish,  are looking lor a reward please call  CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY  HOMES FOR RENT  Annual JPW Concerts  
French). $21page (Your choice font,  1-4507. otherwise would you  RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  NEAR CAMPUS  Saturday, February 18th  
type size). During the day leave  please turn them in to the campus  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL  232-2595  Ladies of ND/SMC:  1:00 pm and 2:30 pm  
message at 289-7332.  lost and found,  IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING  Sick of the games? SWM seeks  Snite Annenberg Auditorium  
ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball,  1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  SWF lor 1 unforgettable nite:Manor  FREE ADMISSION  
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES:  LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S  Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf,  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT  Formal(2124/95). No strings  Everyone Welcome  
Are you looking lor that service pro­ PERRY ELLIS COAT AT FISHER­ Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse,  FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ attached. Send resume to:  Juniors bring your parents  
ject that really makes a difference,  WALSH FORMAL LAST FRI.  Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses,  6551  Otis, c/o 222 Morrissey.  
and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ CALL CINDY AT 273-5399  Photography, Piano, Pool,  JAG,  
ther ...  LOST: Black winter "GAP" cap.  Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes, Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer,  FOR SALE  EXPO ROMA 4TH YR STUDENT EXPOSITION  I LOVEYOUI  
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS  Please call x2027 with any info.  Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski,  @ the Architecture Building  Happy 22nd DREW CARTY (the  
SERVICE PROJECT  Windsurfing, Weights, Wood,  One-way air ticket to Boston  Feb 17-26  "lonz") -anabel and the three dwarfs  
LOST: A NAVY BLUE SPORTS  Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  May 13. Male name. $120  Curious why arkies enjoy talking  
Youth Mentoring at the NE  JACKET W/ BROWN BUTTONS  Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite  x-1814  about their year in Rome? Come  Congrats BRENDA and JIM for join­ 
Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS  AT FISHER-WALSH FORMAL  406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431,  experience the Eternal City in an  ing the RING club. We're happy to  
AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30  LAST FRIDAY. PLEASE CALL  (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on  1988 Subaru GL, 54K miles, 5·  exhibit of student work including  have company • just don't take our  
meet at room 161 or Main Circle  JASON AT X2153  campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­ speed, Power Steering/Brakes, Air,  sketches, paintings, photographs,  date! K&K  
Questions?· Brian Tierney x1058  4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room •  AM/FM Stereo, $3000/BO.  sculpture, and architectural draw­ 
Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ X4350.  ings.  The BRADY'S are back! The  
LITTLE MILTON  LOST LIZARD!! LOST LIZARD!I  ment needed.  BRADY'S are back!  
LITTLE MIL TON  I lost a gecko lizard earring, silver,  WALKTONDI  JONNY & D·PRIME,  
LITTLE MIL TON  one and a hall inches long,  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING •  3 bdrm, 1 bath ranch. New carpet­ Hey Crip,  
at  sometime on Monday, somewhere  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  ing, paint & furnace. Family room  LEMME AKS YOU HOW IT  Maybe next weekend you  
*CORBY'S*  on campus. Please call  on Cruise Ships efland-Tour com­ plus rec room with bar. $56,000.  FEELS TO  shouldn't be so desperated lor  
Thursday, Feb 16  Liz @ 287-7444.  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  OPEN SAT., 2118 FROM 2-4 PM.  ROCK THE VOTE LIKE OAT.  some play.  
LITTLE MIL TON  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  1215 N. Twyckenham  
LITTLE MIL TON  HELP! I've lost my 18 inch gold  Seasonal and full-time employment  'DABOYZ  Happy Birthday Kerry O'Brien!  
LITTLE MILTON  necklace with oval-shaped pendant  available. No experience neces­ Barb McHugh  
that has the initial "L" inside. It has  sary. For more information call1·  Coldwell Banker  Dave Tyler looks good bald.  
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out  great sentimental value. II you've  206-634-0468 ext. C55843  277-8000,235-3240.  To the guys of The GOLDEN  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  found it, please call Liza@ X4991  GROUP-One proved that there is  Guess who I am:  
NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 9-3 sundays  FOUND: Woman's wrist watch. On  TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING  TICKETS  "life alter The PARTY BARGE," One proved that you are what you  -I for sure did grodie on my Chern test today.  
stairs between North dining hall &  FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS  swallow,  -Just kidding  
The Lion King  Flanner, at 9 a.m. wednsday 2115.  BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH  NEED 1·2 PETTY TIX  One proved he looked better in a  -I miss my dog  
,  Fri & Sat Feb 17·18 $2 Cushing Auditorium  Call to identify! Justin at X1765.  CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS. GOOD SALARY, ROOM &  CALi USA 2364  bra than we did, One proved how cool Zahm guys  -I'm lixin' to drink myself into a state of depression. Want to join  
8/1030 pm  WANTED  BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU,  $$$$ Need 4 Marquette GA's  really are. Your six packs rocked our world. We hope our two 24's  me? -Y'all. are we going to Kentucky or  
Come to the Saint Mary's  2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E,  Call Ted x3402  and a 30 rocked yours. Golla see  what?  
Observer Office to place your  Spring Break! Bahamas Party  BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494·  $$$$  The VIDIO ·MJ,BRIDGET,MEG,MO  -1 saw Bad Tom and Feminine  
classilieds Monday 2·4, Tuesday  Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12  6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON  Face today.  
2:30-4:30, WedneSday 11 :30-1 :00, Thursday 2:30-4:30, and  Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM· LAFORTUNE  PERSONAL  HEY YOU! Ready to lose weight lor real? I lost over 20 lbs., went from a  -1 hate his voice. -Can I just tell you, I've hooked up  
Friday 2-4. ILOST & FOUND I  Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $4291 Spring Break Travell-800-678-6386  Painters, Foremen, and Managers­Call College Pro Painters at 1 (800) 346-4649.  ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE. We're blessed with financial securi­ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western  size 9 to a 3 in under 8 weeks! No diets/drugs/exercise! All-Natural Tablets: guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209·2150  20 times since I've been here! -Hee, hee, hee. I was so drunk. Night of the living dead, dawning of  
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  couple, stay-at-home mom.  the living dead, dawning of the wak­ 
Found: ***BIKE LOCK KEY*** On 213/95  PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291  FOR RENT  Allowable expenses paid. 800-440· 6024 Tracy & Doug  DESPARATELY NEEDED:  ing dead, Congratulations, Chris on the 100% Fullbright. You will have  
brand name is "Rhode Gear".  WALK TO BEST BARS I Cocoa  Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd lor  many visitors .... .Tom  
·Bill X1862  Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME  Congratulations to the best broom­ weekend. Please help.  
Deluxe Beachlront Resort 7 Nights  Immaculate Condo with the latest  ball team ever, THE CUL DE SACS  Life is meaningless to some and not  
CD case FOUND in Nieuwland  $1591 Key West $229! Daytona  decor and sharper than new. Call  and their star puddle, Michele  Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You!  to others. You must decide. I think  
Computer Lab. Call 4-1365 to  Room with Kitchen From $12911­ Harold Zeltwanger 291·9338 or  Potter. Next victory-Feb. 22. Stay  ills meaningless and therefore, I  
claim.  800-678·6386  ERA All Star Realty 255-8789.  tuned lor details...  She's not a lush, is she?  don't like to be here.  

Thursday, February 16, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Respert breaks out in MSU win Arkansas' tenacity 
Associated Press age, scored below that mark in we didn't do much to stop three of his four previous them," he said. "Maybe we 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

steals road victory
games, including a season-low were thinking too much about Illinois' defense let Michigan 12 points in a loss to Purdue. the Iowa game. Not a single one By KEN BERGER improved to 5-3 away fromState's Shawn Hespert find the Respert scored 24 points in of our guys was ready to play. 
Associated Press home.
shooting touch that had been 
the second half on the way to The second half we started "I think over the last weekmissing for a few games. 
his sixth game of the season moving the ball a little better TUSCALOOSA, Ala. 
and a half or two weeks, we've
"The last four games I've 
with 30 or more points. He and we won the battle of the 
Alabama 


tried to get back into a tempobeen double and triple-teamed 
made eight of 12 attempts from boards against them." 
was sending 

... things that we love to do andand teams have been clogging 
3-point range. The Spartans, who never 
down dunk not become as predictable as

the middle on me so I've just Michigan State led by 17 trailed in the game, held a 30­
after dunk. 

we started playing this year,"had very quick looks at the bas­
points at halftime and Illinois 13 halftime lead after closing 
Scotty 

Arkansas coach Nolan
ket," said Respert, who scored 
cut the lead to single digits only the first half with an 8-0 run. 
Thurman 

Richardson said. 
35 points Wednesday to lead 
once after a 10-2 run midway The Illini's total was a season couldn't hit aNo. 8 Michigan State to a 68-58 through the second half sliced low for a half for a Michigan 
shot. No. 10 

The tempo was decidedly invictory over the Illini. 
the margin to 45-36 with 10:37 State opponent. It was the A r k a n s a s Williamson 
Alabama's favor in the first
"Tonight my teammates gave 
remaining. worst half for an Illinois team 
was in trou­

half. The Crimson Tide openedme some great screens to get Michigan State answered since 1982 when it had a 12­ble on the road again. 
a 41-27 lead with 4:31 remain­me open and Illinois didn't fight 
with a 19-10 surge that fea­point half against Purdue. This time, though, Thurman 
ing on a thunderous follow-upthrough them as well as some tured two triples apiece by Illinois shot only 23 percent 
and Corliss Williamson 

dunk by Antonio McDyess. Theother teams," Respert said. 
Respert and Ray Weathers as from the field (5-for-22) and 
snatched the game up with a 

crowd rose in unison as a
Illinois coach Lou Henson 
the Spartans built their lead to committed 10 turnovers in the 
vengeance and wouldn't let 

rebound sailed high into the air
agreed that his team could 
64-46 with 3:37 left. first half. 
another one slip away. 

and McDyess gathered it with
have done a better job of 
"We were very impressive The Spartans were clinging to Thurman had 29 points and 
both hands and slammed it
guarding Hespert. 
defensively in the first half and a 7-6 lead when they went on a 
Williamson 24 Wednesday 

through.
"He's a great player and I 
very unimpressive in the sec­15-4 surge to open a 22-10 ad­night to lift the Razorbacks to Earlier, Eric Washington haddon't want to take anything ond half," said Michigan State vantage. Jamie Feick and their second straight road vic­sailed in from the wing with a
away from his performance, 
coach Jud Heathcote. Hespert combined for 11 of the 
tory, 86-80 over No. 18 one-handed Michael Jordan

but he never should handle the 
"I think we played the score 15 points. Alabama. 
imitation, turning the heads ofball that much and get it in a 
in the second half and thought Feick finished with 11 points Arkansas (20-5, 8-4 
every Arkansas player. 
position where he can take 
we had the game won at half­for Michigan State. Eric Snow 
Southeastern Conference) But Thurman, who missed

those shots," Henson said. 
time. Thank God Shawn had tied his career high with 12 as­erased a 14-point Alabama 
badly on his first three 3-point
The win kept the Spartans 
the hot hand tonight because sists. 
lead in the closing minutes of shots and even flubbed a layup,(18-3, 10-2 Big Ten) atop the 

every time they made a run, he Jerry Gee led Illinois with 11 the first half to avenge the 
r.escued the Razorbacks withBig Ten standings. Illinois fell 
hit some big shots," Heathcote points. Kiwane Garris, who Crimson Tide's 18-point victory 
two 3-pointers and a tip-in dur­to 7-5 in the conference and 
said. scored 60 points in two Illini 
at Bud Walton Arena last ing a 15-5 run that cut ihe

Hi-8 overall. 
Henson was frustrated by his victories last week to earn Big month. 
Tide's lead to 46-42 at half­Hespert, who leads the Big 
team's first-half performance. Ten Player of the Week honors, It was the first victory for the time.
Ten in scoring with a 25.1 aver­"We didn't make a thing and was held to seven points. 
Razorbacks at Alabama (17 -6, "He knocked them down with 

7 -4), which had been the only 

Hey Seniors It's the '15 Days ,,.il Graduation Party at Senior Bar 7hursday, Feb.l&  SEC venue where the defending NCAA champions had not won. Arkansas, which consecutive road losses Auburn and Mississippi and barely escaped with a win at Vanderbilt last weekend, •J.SPO~ts BRIEFS lli!i'lniNGAt UQUTS • Training occurs daily at 4:00pm at the JAGC;<'A!lyone interested should c()ntact Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. ':cLIMBING WALL SCHED­ULE , The climbing wall is Jl{)W' open·for use. The hours i~ll be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and 1i,,,,j'ue,~gp.ys an(i Thursdays ' fr()m·ilWO-lOrQ.Q.... The climb­. Jl is located in the · · QJ:'tal&nd anyone · · it must  

ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB is hiring for student manager positions for the 95-96 school year •GREAT EXPERIENCE •REAL RESPONSIBILITIES •FUN ENVIRONMENT Open to Grads and Undergrad.s who are 21 and overby September '95 Pick up Applirntions atStudent Activities, 315Lafortune .DeadlineMarch 1st 1995  

hands in his face," frustrated defender Jamal Faulkner said. "I hope they would count us 
had 

out," Thurman said. "Maybe it 
to would put the pressure on someone else, and we'll see how they play under the spot­light." 

attend an orientation session. 
For more info call RecSports 
at 1-6100. 
CLIMBING WALL ORIEN­TATION SESSION-An orien­tation session will be held on Sunday, Feb. 19 at 12:30 pm at the Rockne Memorial. If interested, ·call RecSports at 1-6100 to sign up. Spaces are limited. 
VARSITY LACROSSE-A statistician is needed for Men's Varsity Lacrosse games. Call Coach Coorigan at 1-5108. Lacrosse ex}leri­ence necessary. 
, BOOKSTORE BASKET­BALL-would like to announce the new commis­sioners for this year: Amy Griffin, Todd Leahy, Kara Woitkowski, Jim Mullen, Matt Dayton, Will Martin, Bob Murray, J.P. Fenningham, Bell Magnoe, Megan Cavanaugh, Colleen Reilly, Carrie Wieneke. Congratulations, and thanks to everyone who applied. 
Accelerated Program in Nursing 

• Earn a B.S. degree in nursing • Eligibility requirement: baccalaureate degree as of May'95 • Program begins May 30,1995 and ends July, 1996 Appl.\cation materials must be subrititted by Much 1, 1995. For more information contact, 
Saint Mary's CollegeAdmission Office at (219) ~­



page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 16, 1995 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

lead by either team. Duke scored the next six points to make it 57-52 with 
6:54 left, but the Blue Devils missed their next four shots and turned it over three times. 
Duke had several chances down the stretch, twice cutting it to three points, before Virginia sealed it by making five of six free throws in the last 34 seconds. 
The Blue Devils, who have lost three in a row and five of seven to Virginia, got 15 points 
The Observer/Brian Hardy and 14 rebounds from Parks 
Blue Devil triumvirate Ricky Price (4), Eric Mee~ (52), and Cherokee 

and 12 points from Jeff Capel, 
Parks (right), pictured here at the Joyce Center th1s season, have been 

who had eight in the first half. ­
unable to correct their squad's losing ways in conference play. 
Have dinner at the Emporium. Order one entree at the regular price and get another entree of equal or lesser value for Half Choose from our Prime Rib, Steaks, Seafood, and hicken selections. All entrees include salad, choice of l\lc•n.::>'t::lhl~'> or potato and freshly baked bread & butter. 
ONE HALF PRICE ENTREE PER COUPON Expires February 23, 1995 121 S. Niles,South Bend•234-9000 

"Mandate for the 
Notre Dame Communication and Theatre with The Acting Company present: 

New Congress" 
Wednesday, February 22
Drama Division 
Thurs., Feb. 16, 8 pm Fri., Feb. 17,8 pm Sat., Feb. 18, 8 pm 
8p.m 
Reserved Seats $14 Students and Senior 

Stepan Center
Citizens $10 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center 

Tickets are now on sale at the 
Ticket Office 

LaFortune Box Office.
MasterCard and Visa 
orders call 631-8128 

Students $3 General Public $S 
~ACTING 

Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities, SUB and Student Government
COMPANY 
Aft'*-~ ll... ~ 
ZELDA fiCHANDI..ER MARGOT HARLEY 
• Al1llllt:Dn1!1:lor E•cocutivePl'Od~er 



Duke's ACC struggles continue 
By JOE MACENKA ond-half runs Wednesday night Associated Press that helped the 16th-ranked Cavaliers add to Duke's woes 
CHARLOTTESVILLE,Va. 
with a 64-58 victory over the Virginia's Junior Burrough 
Blue Devils. and Harold Deane fueled sec-
Burrough finished with 17 


points and 11 rebounds and Deane scored nine of his 12 points in the second half as Virginia (17-6, 9-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) won its fifth consecutive game and 11th in 14. 
Curtis Staples, coming off a school-record nine 3-pointers three days earlier against UNLV, was 5-for-8 from there against Duke and finished with 19 points to help the Cavaliers complete their second season sweep of Duke in three years. 
The Blue Devils (11-13, 1-11) tied the 1982-83 Duke team as the losingest one in school his­tory in ACC play. 
Burrough had six points and an assist as the Cavaliers opened the second half with a 14-6 run to go up 46-40 with 
14:17 to play, their first lead since 6-5. At that point, only Cherokee Parks had scored for Duke in the half. 
The Blue Devils cut it to 48­44 before Deane took over. He scored four points then assisted on a 3-pointer by Staples, help­ing Virginia stretch it to 57-46 at the 9:22 mark, the biggest 
Wake Forest beats No. 7 Maryland 
By TOM FOREMAN Jr. 
Associated Press 

WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
Tony Rutland rescued Wake Forest's offense in the second half Wednesday night and fin­ished with 19 points as the 14th-ranked Demon Deacons rallied for a 63-54 victory over No. 7 Maryland. 
Earlier this season, Rutland provided a lift for Wake Forest (16-5, 7-4 Atlantic Coast Conference) against Clemson when Randolph Childress couldn't get started. With the Terrapins (19-5, 9-3) clamping down on Childress with a variety of pressure defenses, Rutland stepped up and negated that strategy in a key stretch of the second half. 
Rutland's spree actually began with Wake Forest lead­ing 38-32 following Ricky Peral's short jumper at 15:21. Rutland would get four points, but Wake Forest near­ly lost its edge when turnovers on successive possessions led to baskets by Duane Simpkins and Keith Booth to bring Maryland within 42-39 with 12:04left. 
Rutland, averaging 5.2 points per game and 4. 9 points in the ACC, scored eight points in an 11-2 run that gave the Demon Deacons a 53-41 lead with 8:41 to play. 
In a six-minute span, Rutland scored 12 points and had 14 for the half. He didn't score after that, and Wake Forest was nearly as cold, getting one basket in the next seven minutes. 
Maryland didn't do much better with just two field goals for the duration. However, four straight free throws by Simpkins brought the Terrapins with 58-54 with 
3:36 left. 

Thursday, February 16, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 

Belles' aspirations high for invitatio~al 

By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
The Saint Mary's swimming and diving team will begin the end of their 1994-1995 season today at the DePauw University Liberal Arts Invitational. According to coach Greg Janson, the tea.m is ready to give competitors a "run for their money." 
"I am looking for good perfor­mances from everyone on the team," Janson said. "We should definitely be swimming faster this weekend than we have all season long." 
Janson also noted that he ex­pects the Belles to have no lower than a second place team finish overall. The team fin­ished second last year, edging the third and fourth place teams by a narrow margin. 
"We will definitely put up a better overall team perfor­mance this year in terms of both our individual perfor­mances and points scored," Janson added. "If everything were to fall into place at the right time, we could potentially give the defending champions, DePauw University, a good scare." 
Saint Mary's will be compet­ing in a· field of approximately ten NCAA Division III schools from around the Midwest. Some of their competitors will include DePauw. Principia College, Luther College, Centre College and Trinity College. 


The Belles will count on their top individual performers and relay teams to score valuable points for the team. However, Janson believes the ultimate key to success for Saint Mary's will be the team's depth. 
"In terms of how close we come to DePauw or how many points we eventually score, it will depend on our depth, and whether those swimmers who are in events where we don't have many people pick up points," Janson said. 
The meet begins this morning and runs through Saturday with prelims at 11:00 a.m. Those swimmers qualifying in the top 16 in the morning return to swim finals in the. evening. Seeds 9-16 compete in the consolation finals and 1­8 compete in the championship finals for each event. Diving competition will be held each day of the meet. 
The team has prepared them­selves the entire season for this championship meet. Everything each individual has given over the course of the season will be called upon this weekend in order to secure the Belles a top two finish overall. 
"We're going to give nothing but the best of what we have and be confident and relent­less," Janson added. "We're shooting for number one -we'll be happy with what we get, but we won't be satisfied with any­thing less than number one." 
''ON THE CONCOURSE'' .J ACC 
WELCOMES PARENTS TO JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND!!!! 
STOP BY THE VARSITY SHOP TO SEE OUR NEW SPRING LINE 
JPW HOURS: 
FRIDAY 9:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. SATURDAY 9:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. SUNDAY 8:00a.m. to 4:00p.m. 
.._ 
·­

page 14 
Norbut 
continued from page 16 
play above themselves, or even above the Bulldogs, which is normally not too much to ask. 
Of course, it's hard to win when you don't shoot above 40%. And its even harder to score when you can't hit the rim. Or the backboard. 
Five Irish airballs and more than their normal share of travelling calls made Butler look awfully good. But it also made Notre Dame look awfully bad. 
The Bulldog cheerleaders' cry of "Go B.U." sounded more and more like it was directed to the Irish sidelines. 
"Go! P.U.!" 
But give credit to Butler, for it was their stifling defensive effort that made the Irish look foolish. 
"I can't think of anything from a defensive standpoint that they did badly." MacLeod said. "They pushed us out of the low post and contested our outside shots." 
Maybe Ryan Hoover was Jimmy Chitwood. But he missed the game with an ankle injury. That left the Irish look­ing at a pathetic 2-of-12 from three point land. 
Bulldog Travis Trice, a noted 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
in the game, but a travelling violation on Garrity, one of many whistled on the Irish, and a quick Bulldog spurt allowed Collier to insert the walk-ons with over a minute left. 
JRZZMRN'S 
Nite club 
and 
Reggae Uan Promotions 
presents 
Reggae and video night Thursday, Feb 16 Featuring Rahjah 
Show time is 10 PM-Doors open at 8 PM. First 75 patrons before 9:30 PM will have first choice to receive a guaranteed appearance in a Jazzman's video that will be filmed this Thursday. Call 233-8505 Wed. or Thurs. after 4 PM for advance registration for the video appearance. $3.00 with student I D $5.00 without ID You don't want to miss this exciting night of entertainment and fun. 
EVERYBODY BE THERE, MON! 


Irish-killer, filled the role well, scoring 17 points, including two three-pointers. 
Trice's effort and a mean dunk from Bulldog forward Kelsey Wilson over Irish center Matt Gotsch stomped any fur­ther life out of Notre Dame. 
The Irish tried to mount a comeback late in the second half, running back-door screens and a picket fence of sorts -but they got caught watching the paint dry. 
And so the Irish sunk back from Hinkle Fieldhouse, per­haps for the last time. Any hopes of reliving a Hickory win went by the wayside. 
With Notre Dame joining the overpowering Big East, un­healthy rivalries such as this will, unfortunately for Butler, fall by the wayside. 
"It's not so much that we don't want to play Butler," MacLeod continued. "It's just the right thing to do." 
Perhaps so. Notre Dame has not beaten Butler in five years running. 
But at least the streak ends next year. No more Butler, no more Hinkle Fieldhouse. 
No more Hoosiers. 
"It's a great place to play," MacLeod stated. "I've seen a lot of great basketball played here." 
Just not by the Irish. 
lromcally, the lone posttive for Notre Dame was a former walk-on, Pete Miller. The South Bend native scored the first seven Irish points and pro­vided what little emotion Notre Dame played with. 
"Miller was our bright spot," said MacLeod. "He did an excellent job for Us." 

Thursday, February 16, 1995 
The Observer/Brandon Candura Native Hoosier Pete Miller earned the first start of his career last night against Butler and scored the team's first seven points, providing a spark for an otherwise lethargic Irish offense. 
SOUTH BEND CENTER FOR MEDICAL EDUCATION TO 
OFFER FREE MINI-MEDICAL SCHOOL SERIES Now anyone can learn about what's new in medicine and find out what medical 
school is like in these seven free sessions, open to the general public. 
Topic: Health Care Reform, Governor Otis Bowen, M.D. VVednesda~ Feb. 22, 1995 
Topic: Depression(Seasonal Disorders), Dr. David Wehlage 
VVednesda~ Feb. 22, 1995 

Topic: AIDS, Dr. Nancy Cole & Dr. Robert Clausen 
VVednesday, March 1, 1995 

Topic: Medical Ethics, Dr. Gary Mitchell & Dr. Gary Fromm 
VVednesday, March 8, 1995 

Topic: Exercise Physiology -Training and Drug Abuse, Dr. Kenneth Olson & Dr. James Moriarity 
VVednesday, March 15, 1995 

Topic: Aging & Parkinsonism, Dr. Daryl Christ & Dr. Steven Gable 
VVednesday, March 22, 1995 

Topic: The Knee -Anatomy, Injuries, Repair, & Replacement, Dr. John O'Malley & Dr. Robert Clemency 
VVednesday, March 29, 1995 

Topic: From DNA to-Disease, Dr. Ed. McKee & Dr. Michael Conneally 
VVednesday, AprilS, 1995 

Time: 7:30-9:30 p.m. Place: DeBartolo Classroom Building (west ofthe stadium) University of Notre Dame 
For more informationand to register call (219) 631-5574 or 631-7178. 
SUBWAY's Giant Party Subs &Platters are the fresh, delicious change of taste from pizza, chicken and burgers. We pile lots of fresh-sliced deli meats onto fresh bread baked right in our store. Next we add cheese, plus your choice of fresh toppings and tasty condiments. The result is ahearty sandwich that will satisfy any hungry team. 
.----.~~--~~~------~------------------~----------------------~--------------·------­
Thursday, February 16, 1995 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
The Observer • TODAY 
MIKE PETERS 

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
1-\0S'\ 1'£01'\..£ 00\{1-KNcJW 'tll-\~I \TS L\~1:. TO B£_ f!., C\.\\LO I'RcO\G'(, 9:l 11-\f>.\~ W\-1'\ l'M WR\111-\G 

DILBERT 

I WAS SO LATE I HAD YEAH, I HAD TO PUT ON TO SHAVE IN MY MAKEUP THE CAR. 

52 Japanese dance-drama 53 Anesthetic 55111. zone 56 Teen tormentor 57 Give a roar of approval? 59 Guglielmo, in America 62 Chilled desserts 63 Encroach 64 Started stud: Var. 85 More palatable 
DOWN 
1 Swimming sites 2 Opinion offerers 3 Sound of rain 
on a roof 4Student 
:l 
§ 
~ ~ 
THAT'S NOTHING. I WAS SO LATE THAT I HAD TO GIVE MYSELF A SPONGE BATH IN 
stressor 5 Cruise in

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Hollywood 8 Follower: Suffix 24 "Valleri" band, 
1968 

BILL WATTERSON 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ AREN'T YOU
::. 

~ THE DRIVER YOU'VE FOR YOUR NEVER ~ CARPOOL? HEARD 
.., 

SUCH WHINING. 
J 


40 Additional 47 Pinhead answers? so Present, e.g. 
page 15 

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
-

"Well, we found out what was causing that squealing noise. Your wife had been sitting on a tack." 

Atilio Boron will speak today on "Stabilization Policies and Distributional Impact: The Argentine Experience" today at 4:15pm in C-103 Heshurgh Center for International Studies. 

SOUTH Corn Potato Chowder Chili Seminole Red Snapper Turtle Cake 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
NORTH Tri-Color Tortellini Reese's Pieces Cookies S(la,foQ~ Medley Stir-Fry 
Saint Mary's 
Turkey Parmesan Carved Ham Freneh Carrot Sticks 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Bon mot from Julia Child? 8 "Cotton Candy" trumpeter 14 Literary hero of 
1605 
15 Child's conveyance 18Wild 17 George Eliot, e.g. 18 Not know from 
19The Third 21 Disputed heights 22 Reason for a 
patch 23 Smeary mark 28 The outside 
27Call-day 28 Exit 30Want-·­
31 Aft 33 Removes solids 
from 35 Shoemaker 37 Aforementioned 38 Writer from 
Hannibal, Mo. 
41 Seers 45--la-la 46 Porky Pig's 
sweetheart 48 It's measured in minutes 49 Possess, in the Bible 51 Like Tarzan's friends 

Have 
something to say? Use 
25 The Urals divide 10 Blackman of it "Goldfinger" 
29 Republic of ~::+.-+=-1!1!11-:±:-E-t~:--1 11 Type of China dressing 
32 Wind heading 
12 Sends back 13 Now people set 34 Wyo. neighbor ~~1EJII them 36 Attracts adroitly 38 It might be a mess 
39Respond angrily 

• 
• •:-• • • • •-• • • ··•_fiii~.&:W~IWI·i... 
42 "Dear Heart" 54 Hill composer 56 Landed 43 Period starting sa End of the about 1000 B.C. British Empire? 
The Observer 
44 Intriguing &OKaye's"­person Big Girl Now" 45 Actress Ritter 61 Bygone vinyl 
classifieds.
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
ION KING 
Friday & Saturday 

Cushing Auditorium J:ft<:tJ-lHIIf you messed up re~latlngli;: Valentine's Day, here's your second chance at 
~----~ ~-­

-
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, February 16, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBALl 

Bulldogs continue mastery of Irish, 76-60 
Notre Dames road woes 
• JOCK STRIP return as Irish only 2-12 Historic Held­from beyond arc house doesn't By TIM SHERMAN inspire Irish 
Assistant Sports Editor 

INDIANAPOLISINDIANAPOLIS 
J o h nWith 8:57 remaining in the game, the nor­
MacLeod
mally reserved John MacLeod ripped off his could havesuitcoat in a fit of a rage. 
really usedIt was that kind of night for the Irish. 
a Jimmy

Committing eight offensive fouls and shoot­ing just forty percent, Notre Dame dropped Chitwood an ugly 76-60 decision to Butler at the Hinkle Wednesday Fieldhouse. night. 
"This is a very tough part of the season," In fact, Mike Norbut said forward Pat Garrity, who led the 14-10 he could Irish. "We've hit rock bottom." 
have used the whole Hickory
Continuing their season-long struggle on team in Notre Dame's 76-60 

the road, the Irish could find no consistency loss to Butler. 
on the offensive end, nor could they muster 

The Irish players had to
any emotion away from the JACC. 

know that Hinkle Fieldhouse,
"I don't know what it is on the road," 

Butler's home court, was theGarrity said. "Regardless of the situation, we 
site of the filming of the
need to play." Trailing at times by twenty or more, the 

movie Hoosiers. Ryan Hoover-less Irish could not find their MacLeod could have told range from the outside. Notre Dame, who them about it. He was there 
has connected from downtown just five times when Hickory (the school is in four games, shot a pitiful 2-12 from the called Milan in real life) outside arc without Hoover. knocked off the mighty Bears 
"Ryan is a big part of our offense," Garrity 

of South Bend Central in 
explained. "Without him and Keith 

1954. He knows how much(Kurowski, who played just ten minutes), we aura the building has, howjust don't have the shooters." 
much enthusiasm it can cre­Butler did though, as the 15-8 Bulldogs ate.
buried four threes and numerous other out­Ironically, the only Notreside jumpers en route to the blowout win. 

Dame player to play like a
Travis Trice, a 6'1" captain, was the high man for Butler with 17 points. 

true Hoosier was South Bend "Trice was the stable guy on offense for native Pete Miller, who saw us," said Butler coach Billy Collier. his first career start in an The other spark for the Bulldogs was guard Irish uniform. Kelsey Wilson, who at 6'3" dunked emphati­The sophomore scored nine cally, and symbolically, over Irish center Matt points, which is more than Gotsch. 
three times his average. But 
The Irish did cut the margin to twelve late Impassive Irish defense by Matt Gotsch and Jason Williams could not counterbalance the 
the rest of the team forgot to
lack of scoring punch as Notre Dame fell to Butler for the fifth consecutive year. 

Irish travel to face CSU 

see IRISH I page 14 see NORBUT I page 14 

.... 
Sophomore center Katryna Gaither will lead Notre Dame against the Cleveland State Vikings, whom she scorched for a school record 34 points earlier in the year. 
By K.C. GOYER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will travel to Cleveland tonight to take on the Cleveland State University Vikings. Notre Dame looks to extend its season's longest winning streak to eight, and keep its undefeated conference record intact. Cleveland State will try to improve their 3­7 Midwestern Collegiate Conference record and continue a two game winning streak. 
Earlier this season, the Irish defeated CSU 90-66. The date was January 9th, and it was sophomore center Katryna Gaither's debutante ball as she was introduced to the league as a scoring powerhouse and re­bounding force with the most outstanding game of her career. Gaither scored 34 points, pulled down 12 rebounds, and blocked 5 shots. Her 34 points broke a previous Notre Dame record of most points scored in a game at 33. 
The impressive statistics have been ram­pant ever since. Gaither has stepped into the spotlight with sharp shooting Beth Morgan. Gaither is the team's leading scorer in conference games with an aver­age of 20.2, while Morgan leads for the season with 18.1. 
If Gaither is the rising star on the team, then Letitia Bowen is the ever present sun­shine. Bowen contributes in every category as she leads the team in rebounds, assists, steals, free throws made, and is the third leading scorer in conference play. The sun has been blazing especially brightly of late as Bowen has both scored and rebounded in double figures in the last four games. 
A lot of opponents see double after play­ing the Irish. In addition to Bowen's dou­ble-double trend, Morgan has scored in double digits in all but one game this sea­son. Gaither leads the team with six dou­ble doubles, and has scored in double fig­ures in the last 15 games. 
BELLES' SWIMMING 

St. Mary's looks to show that its swimmers are ready for the prime time of the nationals this weekend at the DePauw Invitational 
see page 13 

SMC 

S . .
Wtmm•ng 
of note... 
Irish defensive line coach Mike Trgovac accepted an assistants position with the NFL's Philadelphia Eagles 

