
Tuesday, September 26, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 27 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
University considers integrated card system 
The new card could be used card "turned off' quickly. All-campus at both dining halls, vending Ball also discussed the possi­machines, and the bookstore. bility of a debit card which
card to simplify Ideally, the card would also would allow students to deposit grant access to parking lots on money in an account, and then campus as well as replace cur­use the new card in place of
student life 
rent Detex systems in dorms. cash at various locations across By AMY SCHMIDT 
"The limits to this kind of campus. 
Assistant News Editor technology are the limits of our "The beauty of it is that you own imagination," said Ball. wouldn't have to carry cash," Calling current card methods Ball said. "Notre Dame would
Plans are underway for an in­
antiquated and difficult, Ball become a cashless campus." 
tegrated card system which will 
be available for use across said that the integrated card Ball did stress, however, that campus as early as fall of 1996, system would be a flexible one, a meal equivalency system will using an integrated corporate be produced for cash opera­
according to Mike Ball, systems coordinator for university food data base as its foundation. tions such as the Huddle only 
services. Ball said that the integrated after normal meal hours. 
Ball addressed the Campus data base would make it easier "The University is committed Life Council (CLC) yesterday, for a student to locate a lost to the idea of the 21 meal plan explaining the implementation card because he or she could go for residential undergradu­of an all-campus card system. to a number of places to get the ates," Ball said. 
The Observer/Brian Hardy 

A New Home 
Dorm construction continues on the new golf quad with Keough and O'Neill halls. The buildings will be completed and ready for students by the fall of 1996. 

Ball is hopeful that the new card system successfully ad­dress campus-wide needs. 
"We are one of the last uni­versities to move in this (tech­nological) direction," he said. 
In other CLC news, room 224 of the security building will be open for late-night study space from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. 
"It's an excellent first step as far as study space goes." said South Quad Senator Seth Miller. 
Katie Beirne, campus social commissioner, also discussed the planning of on-campus dances at various Notre Dame facilities. She said that on­campus sites provide an alter­native to off-campus sites which are often too pricey. 
Among the suggested loca­tions were the LaFortune Ballroom, Stepan Center, North and South Dining Halls, Alumni Senior Club, and the Knights of Columbus Council Hall. 
Some of these sites, including Alumni Senior Club and the Knights of Columbus Council Hall, require rental charges. 
Although the Monogram Room and Concourse are avail­able for rental, they are trying to steer away from dances be­cause of a hectic sports sched­ule this year. 
According to Beirne, Food Services has advised against the use of these two facilities for dances. 


SMC freshmen face 1995 board elections 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Election 1995 looms. Instead of a battle between Democrats and Republicans, posters with slogans based on class unity and activities cover the walls of Saint Mary's College, as fresh­man board elections take place Wednesday. 
Five President-Vice President tickets are vying for the covet­ed titles, and six women are running for 13 board positions. In order to be elected, candi­dates must win one vote over the 50 percent mark. The remaining board positions will be decided by the new class president and vice-president, according to Emily Ruffner, elections commissioner. 
Students do not give cam­paign speeches. The student government department stress­es that campaign regulations, such as pre-approved platform and limited campaign budgets, are taken to prevent turning elections into a popularity con­test. "It's really up to the can­didates to get themselves known, and introducing them­selves door to door." said Ruffner. 
The Observer asked each presidential candidate the best qualities of their ticket and their major goals. 
Suzanne Sarrett-Nicole Kraimer ticket: "We're both spirited, and like to get involved and get things mov­ing," said Barrett. "We're going to try to have more inter­action with Notre Dame, and have unity in the freshman class. We'd like to get everyone involved, and have an all­around good year." 
Tina Kosinski-Mandy Miller ticket: "We both were very active in government in high school, and are both political science majors," said Kosinski. 
see ELECTION/ page 4 

Bayh appoints Guillen ND among top 50 best buys 
Institute of Technology, with an this award. 
student commissioner University 
average discounted cost of Notre Dame also ranked 45 $13,722, was ranked the best in the "sticker "category, which By DAVE PREISSLER ty's Hispanic American Organi­value among national universi­compared the total cost of the News Writer zation, the League of United deemed a ties. university ($22,267) with the Latin American Citizens, the Considering only sticker quality of the university accord­Father Edward Malloy nomi­freshman orientation commit­price, Brigham Young Univer­ing to U.S. News' "America's
good value 

nated Notre Dame junior Ryan tee and the Keenan Hall Diver­sity at Provo offers the best Best Colleges" issue. Guillen, president of Keenan sity Awareness Committee. value among national universi­Notre Dame ranked 18 in
By BILL CONNOLLY

llall and a resident of Dyer, The SSACI includes a board ties. that review of America's best
News Writer 

Ind., as a commissioner of the of 11 members that meet six The best values are calculat­colleges. State Student Assistance times a year to· administer a ed in relation to both the stated Notre Dame needs to improve
After being rejected by
Commission of Indiana (SSACI). variety of state financial aid or "sticker" price (tuition, in the amount of grants and
Money magazine as one of their 
Because Guillen demonstrates programs. room, board and fees) and to awards it gives out in order to
top 100 buys, Notre Dame was
experience and knowledge in The board consists of mem­the discounted price (tuition, rise in these polls. 
ranked 40 and 45 in two differ­
thtl world of financial aid, bers representing each of the room, board, fees, books, and Universities with much high­
ent categories for affordability
Governor Evan Bayh of Indiana ten districts of Indiana while estimated personal expenses, er tuition than Notre Dame,
in education by U.S. News and
recently appointed him to be the eleventh member is a col­minus the average of need­such as Yale University, fin­
World Report. 

the only student commissioner lege student representing the based grants). The discounted ished higher in the discount
In its Sept. 25 issue, U.S.
of this committee. students of Indiana. price is more relevant for most poll because they supplied 43%
News ranks various national
Guillen serves as a student As the first representative of private schools such as Notre of their students with need­
universities on the basis of
loan assistant in the Notre Notre Dame. he plans to not Dame. based grants. 
"sticker" and "discount" prices.
Dame financial aid office and only influence the state legisla­Notre Dame ranked 40 in the However, University officials
These rankings are collectively
Stlrved as a loan processor with ture to increase students' fi­discount price category. The have not stressed the impor­
called the best value rankings
Education Financial Services of nancial aid, but he also hopes average need-based grant at tance of such polls in the past. 
and appear in a special section
Indianapolis. to influence the state senators Notre Dame for the 1994-1995 "Obviously we would like to
on financing for colleges. 

Aside from his political finan­and congresspersons to turn academic year was $7,065, be seen as a good educational
This is the first year the best
eial duties, he is majoring in down the new federal budget with 26% of the students buy," Dennis Brown, assistant
values are ranked for from 1 to
Economics and computer appli­plan. receiving such grants. The director of public relations and
50 national universities. Based
cations with a concentration in The federal budget plan, -average non-need award at information said. "But our top
on discounted tuition, for the
Latin American Studies. Also, Notre Dame was $1,745, and
second year in a row, California
he is a member of the Universi-see GUILLEN/ page 4 27% of the students received see RANKINGS/ page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 26, 1995 

• INSIDE COLUMN 



Changing the balance of power 
In November of 1992 Peter K. Lenardos 
an unforgettable ex-
Viewpoint Copy Editor 
perience occurred. Americans were fed up, plain and simple. They didn't want to hear any more promises that were never meant to be kept, they were taxed too much, and times were tough as the economy just start­ed to emerge from recession. Bill Clinton had convinced everyone that he was to Democrats what Ronald Reagan was to Republicans: the next great American presi­dent. 
Clinton, however, was not that convincing. Without the help of billionaire Texan Ross Perot, who was as determined as Clinton to defeat George Bush and therefore threw not only his hat but his money as well into the race, Clinton would have never won. Perot stole vital votes from Bush and gave Clinton the lead he needed to capture the presiden­cy. This, my friends, in 1995, is history. However, although it is history, it is still amazing that the event actually happened. Clinton, who pounded away at Bush for breaking his "No New Taxes" pledge, con­
·vinced Americans to vote for him even though his platform contained enormous tax increases. Despite this and many other apparent flaws, America did vote for Clinton. Good morning, America! 
Americans soon learned that they had been tricked, fooled, and deceived. Most Americans that is. First of all, 38% of us were never tricked in the first place. As most of Perot's loyalists woke up from their fantastic dream and realized the nightmare at hand, they hopped onto the Republican band wagon. Many Clinton loyalists soon fol­lowed and wanted exactly what their presi­dent had promised just two years earlier: change. 
November of 1994 rolled around and evict­ed the Democrats from Congressional power in Washington. Republicans seized the helm, promising change and delivering it. Now most of America is ready for the next step, which includes lower taxes, a smaller and less intrusive government, and the opportunity to pursue the American Dream and succeed without fear of being frnancially punished by the government. 
For you see, when Bill Clinton hisses and 
'boos at 'the' "rich" of this· country he is talk­ing about our parents, our friends, and even recent Notre Dame graduates. Clinton was very vague in the campaign concerning the defrnition of the word "rich." Clinton origi­nally defmed "rich" as people making over $50,000 and then reduced that amount to $32,500. That's a year, friends. A recent statistic released from this nationally ranked and acclaimed university stated that recent graduates made on average in the low to mid $30,000 range their first year after gradua­tion (some made thousands more). Congratulations, you're already "rich"! 
Already a plethora of Republican and Independent presidential hopefuls have lined up to occupy the White House. In order to do so they must beat Clinton and his decep­tiveness in November of 1996. These presidential aspirants want people to suc­ceed, to become "rich" and employ and inspire the working people of this great country to do the same, and yes, even to pay their taxes, albeit reduced. Being Americans, in fourteen months the choice will be ours, and the choice is as easy as 
.ABC: Anybody But Clinton. Either of them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Accent Amy Schmidt Ashleigh Thompson Deborah Schultz Melinda Cragan Sports Production Dave Treacy Tara Grieshop Megan McGrath Jackie Moser Lab Tech Graphics MikeRuma 
Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
More fighting possible as Yugoslavia peace talks near 

SARAJEVO 

Allied Bosnian and Croatian forces squeezed a key strip of Serb-held land Monday, a sign that major new fighting could be brewing even as diplomats from across former Yugoslavia try once more to smooth the way for peace talks. 
The Croatian army in the north and Bosnian Croat and government forces to the south shelled the corridor Sun­day in response to Serb troop and mil­itary equipment movement through the area, said Lt. Col. Chris Vernon, a U.N. spokesman. 
Vernon said the anti-Serb alliance could be preparing to try to cut the corridor, which would completely iso­late Serb-held territory centered on Banja Luka in the northwest. Serbs have lost heavily in that region in recent weeks but retain sizable hold-
Cast of thousands to protect Pope 
NEW YORK 
Tucked away somewhere in New York City is a symbol of the perils of being Pope John Paul II: the Popemobile. The armored, bubble­topped Mercedes-a legacy of a 1981 assassination attempt -was shipped by the Vatican to the United States on Sept. 9. Divulging the vehicle's exact location, authorities said, would com­

promise security for the Pope's U.S. visit Oct. 4-8. "We don't even know where it is," said Bill Ryan, spokesman for the U.S. Catholic Congress. Shrouding many details in secrecy, law enforcement officials have launched an unprecedented effort to protect John Paul during his trip to New York, New Jersey and Maryland. During his last visit to the New York area, in 1979, the pontiff sometimes traveled in an open limousine and freely mixed with wor­shipers. No more. The risk of terrorism on U.S. soil now dictates much tighter security. In New York City, a jury is deliberating the fate of Sheik Omar ,Abdel-Rahman and nine other Muslims accused of plotting to bomb city land­marks. The defendants are in the same federal prison as Ramzi Yousef, a suspect in both the World Trade Center bombing and a plot to kill the pope during a recent visit to the Philippines. 
AIDS artist finds home for coffin 
WASHINGTON 
An elaborate gilded coffin, the centerpiece of an art exhibit with an AIDS theme, went on display Monday at a union headquarters after senators decided it was too graphic for their office building. "I'm not sure what they're afraid of," said artist Mary Fisher, who held the 1992 Republican convention spellbound with a speech about being a mother with the AIDS virus. "I don't con­sider my art controversial, nor do I consider myself a controversial person." Three senators had invited Fisher to mount her 26-piece exhibit, called "Messages," in the rotunda of the Russell Senate Office Building on Capitol Hill. But subsequent objections to the coffin, and Fisher's refusal to remove it from the show, led Sen. John Warner, R-Va., to rescind the invitation Friday. Sen. Ed­ward Kennedy, D-Mass., one of the three original spon­sors, helped Fisher fmd space at the foot of the Capitol at the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America headquarters. Fisher's collages and sculpture are exhibited in a fifth-floor room draped with white sheets and crawling with media attracted by the furor. "A capital conundrum over AIDS, art and appropriate­ness!' 
• INDIANA WEATHER 
'fuesday, Sept. 26 Accu-Weather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 26. 
FRONTS: 
.,........,... ........... 
~ 
cow WARM STATIONARY 

ings. 
The rebel Serbs have heavy defenses along the vital strip, Vernon said, adding that the Muslim-Croat allies "would have a very big fight on their hands" if they tried to take it. 
Col. Ferid Buljubasic, a spokesman for the Bosnian army in Sarajevo, indi­cated his army would continue to press the Serbs. 
"Until peace is achieved, our forces will continue offensive actions," he said. At talks in Geneva on Sept. 8, both sides agreed to an ethnic division that would give the Muslim-Croat alliance 51 percent of Bosnia and the Serbs 49 percent. 
At the time, Serb acceptance of that percentage was considered key as the Serbs had held nearly 70 percent of Bosnia since shortly after war began in April1992. 
FAA looking to limit air traffic control 
FORT WORTH, Texas 
The Federal Aviation Administration is moving toward easing air traffic controllers out of the picture and allow­ing airlines and pilots to set their routes, according to published reports. Under the plan, air traffic controllers would cease to be lords of the skies and become more like angels, intervening only when necessary to prevent collisions. The plan was first reported Sept. 18 by the Los Angeles Times. The Dallas Morning News carried additional details in a story Sunday. Called Free Flight, the proposal would use computers and satellites to enable pilots to abandon the crowded, one-lane airways that now serve as the nation's airborne arteries. Proponents say aviation would be safer and delays could virtually disappear, saving airlines an estimated $3.5 bil­lion a year. Opponents, including the nation's leading pilots' and air traffic controllers' unions, argue that skies already are chaotic and could get worse if controllers are no longer in charge. But with air traffic predicted to jump by 60 percent in the next decade to 800 million passengers a year, scarcely anyone in the industry ques­tions the need for changes. During the past 12 months, outdated radar and computer equipment used to guide jetliners cruising at high altitudes has faltered or failed a dozen times. 
Fear rises after volcano's new blasts 
WELLINGTON, New Zealand 
Train service between New Zealand's two biggest cities was canceled and air traffic diverted Monday because of an erupting volcano that belched ash, steam and car-sized rocks into the sky. Authorities also closed the highway around Mount Ruapehu and the ski resorts on its slopes. Eruptions from the Crater Lake area were occurring every two to three minutes, and scientists said a major eruption may be near. Civil Defense officials warned people living within 60 miles downwind to expect heavy ash falls from the 9,000-foot peak, which is mid­way between Auckland and the capital, Wellington. Rescue services at the Waiouru military base, 12 miles from the volcano, were placed on full alert, and wives and children at the base were evacuated. There were no widespread evacuations, however, not even of the 60 res­idents of Whakapapa Village on the volcano's slope. Dozens of people gathered Monday at the Whakapapa Visitors Center to watch the ash and steam spewing 12 miles into the blue sky, cheering each new explosion. The village has an alarm system to give 20 minutes warning if a mud flow from the slopes heads towards town, giving residents time to reach high ground. 
Pressun> 

H L rn &'SJ rnJ 0 . fZ3 § ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE CLOUIYf 
VloiA&aocl.sledPfas  
AUanta  64  49  Dallas  80  62  New Orleans 85  67  
Battimore  72  57  Denver  69  36  New York  69  59  
Boston  6t  52  Los Angeles 80  65  Philadelphia 68  59  
Chicago  7t  44  Miami  91  79  Phoenix  95  74  
Columbus  69  47  Minneapolis 70  49  St. Louis  76  55  

.---------------------~-----------------­
Tuesday, September 26, 1995 

Programming contest highlights student talent 
By JAKE MOONEY 
News Wri[er 
Some of Notre Dame's best and brightest computer pro­grammers got a chance to show their stuff on Sunday, in a programming contest orga­nized by the Notre Dame chap· ter of the Association of Com­puting Machinery and spon­sored by the Department of Computer Science and Engi­neering. 
The sixteen entrants in the competition were asked to write programs to solve prob­lems dealing with everything from math to "brain-teasers." 
In keeping with the event's "trick-or-treat" theme, correct solutions were rewarded with candy bars and other goodies. 
More importantly, the top three individual finishers were selected to compete on one of two Irish teams at this year's regional competition, which will be held at Michigan State. 
In what proved to be a hotly contested battle of minds, Demian Nave took first place, 
Take a torip to chicago.\Shed a few tears\_ 
Only ~5 

edging out second-place fin­isher Benjamin Peterson. 
The team of Kevin Chee and Chris Gebert took third place, but, since only individual competitors may be selected for the regional team, Chris Mueller, who finished in fourth place, will fill the final spot on the team, while Chee and Gebert will have to be satisfied with the warm glow of victory and several candy bars each. 
The Computer Club holds two contests each year, with the fall contest used to select teams for the regional event. 
The winners of the spring competition do not advance to any other event, but should be consoled by the cash prizes offered. 
Sunday's contest was judged by Jeff Squyres and Brian McCandless, graduate students in the field of Computer Science and Engineering. 
The club's faculty advisors are Dr. Sepeta, a mathematics professor, and Dr. Bass, a pro­fessor in Computer Science. 
ssion refreshments 
By KARA PAVLIK and PAITI CARSON 
News Writers 

Reverend Martin Boler, the Prior of Mount Savior Monastery in New York, stepped out of the monastery and into a Saint Mary's class­room to speak yesterday on monastic life in the 20th cen­tury. 
His lecture entitled "Benedict's Rule in the Modern World" was sponsored by the college's Humanistic Studies Department and was the first in the department's lecture series. 
One of Boler's main inten­tions was to offset some nega­tive stereotypes about monastic life. For example, many people 


Lceo Buurncett JiJn9t 
() 


in advertising ceithcero 



LEO BUHNETT COMPANY, INC. 
The Leo Burnett Company is the largest ad agency in Chicago. And the man who created it graduated with a Bachelor ofArts. So don't let the fact that you're a History major or even a Chemical Engineering major keep you away from our presentation about a career in Client Service. At Leo Burnett, we're interested in people. Not majors. 
Wednesday, September 27th, 6:30pm · Alumni-Senior Club 
ByClAIREHALBRIIT~R e White, Ryan White's New• Wriler !ilK'' mother who would speak on 
· .u .·.·...·. · • . . . ·•····•·····•····• . 

·:Hi)A.IDS.. There)s a list of speak· 
ers to be looked into, all of 
which are still in considera~ 
tion. 
SMCTostal has been sched­
u1ed to begin on Aprll18 with 
events such as Starstruck 
video making, booking a band 
and having Stomper Bob open, . palrn readers, tye-dying, and much more. 
SAB has decided to have SMCTostal on the Thursday before Antostal at Saint 
.,.f¥{!1,1'~~·. }!At . . . · Ail; ··~ary Udovic~. President of SAB, stated, "there was a lot of. confusion last year, so we · thought it would be really fun 
•.... .. ......•...•.... ·~ay~ oqr.pvvn day and then plans to ~Vite ~ol'lgV'i': f)nts'ECcari have the . e speaker durfrig the opp9rtunity;to P,articipate .in second semester. Names two celebratmns.' The entire wbich were oneq w-ere .' . {)ardis excited to bring this r .~m·r.tev v;Jio ~p~a.ksiJ{f;l' ·· ;,.t? S~int Mary's and · ~igbts, a.nd.H~ · U}Wwork with Notre 
page 3 
Dame on helping each other 
with publicity. 
Other events which were 
discussed were booking a 
Notre Dame band which plays 
Latino music at Haggar. The 
band recently played at a 
dance at Notre Dame and SAB 
is interested in bringing them 
to campus with hopes of 
bringing the Notre Dame stu­
dents over to hear them again. 
The bulletin boards in the 
LeMans basement which had 
been previously discussed 
have now been given to the 
branches of student govern­
ment. Each branch has two 
boards and will be posting 
board members photos as well 
as publicity for upcoming 

events. _ Foot-stomping Friday is still 
in the making for this year. 
Back by popular demand, "As 
You Wish Imports" will be re· 
turning to Saint Mary's on Oc· 
tober 25. 

.TheStudentActivities Board .. 
(SABJ met again last evening to discuss what upcoming events the club will be ~ponsorlng at Saint Marts. The meeting began with''dis­cussion about a Halloween event. 
SAB plans. to bring in ghost· storytellers, have a pumpkin carving contest, and mocktails with possible "late night" foods like Papa John's.~pd Bai 
Boler praises monastic lifestyle 
don't understand the monks' restraint of speech, according to Boler. 
"The first action of God in the first book of Genesis in the Bible is to speak. And since God's first action was to speak, our first reaction should be to listen. Listening i,s to give full attention to another person with no evaluation. It's not si· lence," Boler said. 
Boler also discussed miscon­ceptions about humility. In to­day's vocabulary, humility means being a "doormat or a wimp." 
This happens a lot of times with our language. 
Time goes on and the mean­ing of words change in a soci­ety. Benedict's seven steps of humility can seem dangerous today because many people in today's society have such a poor self-image, Boler said. 
Boler also highlighted the fact that we tend to take things from God instead of receiving them in gratitude. For exam­
ple,  we  "take"  a  nap.  In  
Genesis,  God  invites  us  to  
respond to the gift of life.  

He gives us the ability to respond-hence, "response ability." Responsibility: it is a gift, not a burden, according to Boler. 
He also said that God is re­ferred to as Abba in Scripture not to give him a male identity, but to convey the idea that we have a relationship with God­as our Father. 
Boler talked briefly on the concept of celibacy, saying that it is the response of love out of having been touched by God. 
After clearing up some com· mon misconceptions about monastic life as viewed by to­day's society, Boler said that to truly get a taste of what monas­tic life is like, one must actually visit a monastery. 
Boler said that "a Monk out of his monastery is like a fish out of water," insisting that a monk can only be known in the con­text of his monastery. 
Boler said that a monk's motto could be summed up simply. 
"That in all things God may be glorified.," he said. 


~--~-~-~~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 26, I 995 



Election 
continued from page I 
"We will ask the questions to find answers the freshman class wants to know, and plan events to bring about an involved, unified class." 
Mary Liz Tully-Christina Bartle ticket: "We have a diverse background between us, and those things make us more open to the needs of our class," said Tully. "During our campaign, we are meeting with students and sending out sur­veys to get feedback from the class. We hope to use the stu-

Rankings 
continued from page 1 
priority is to provide a top rate education." 
Unlike Money magazine's national poll earlier this month, U.S. News' poll placed Notre Dame against its peers. 
This is because the magazine only polled the best values for the better schools; namely, the top 50% of national universi­ties according to U.S. News' 


Guillen 
continued from page 1 
which is currently under dis­cussion in Congress, will great­ly effect the federal grants and loans. 
The plan suggests a higher interest rate ·for subsidized dents' ideas, along with our own ideas, to represent our class." 

Katie Wehby-Tysus Jackson ticket: "We are a really unique pair. We're outgoing, and will­ing to work for our class," said Wehby. 
"We want our class to be united, and will work and make improvements to make it the best four years of our life." 
Elections will be held Wednesday in the LeMans entrance of the Dining Hall from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. and 4:30 
p.m. to 7 p.m.. In the event that a ticket does not earn the majority vote, run-offs will take place Friday. 
poll of America's best colleges. University officials have the long-term goal of meeting 100% of all demonstrated need, according to Joe Russo, director of financial aid. 
"The University recognizes, as its most significant need, that which relates to improving the school's resources in order to meet the full demonstrated need of its students," Russo said. Resources have doubled since 1990, according to Russo. 
Stafford Loans and less avail­able funding for college stu­dents. 
Addressing the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, "I encourage the students to contact their home state sena­tors and congresspersons in order to make them aware of the importance of the federal funds," Gujllen said. 

Ha;ve some-thi.ng; -to say! Use The Ob8erver ciassi.fieds. 
--Escap;th;-SouthBend-COLD =--]Head SOUTH next semester! 





Student Exchanges 
at 


Information Meeting Tuesday, September 26, 1995 
7:00 • s:oo p.m. 120 DeBartolo Hall 
L-~-----------------~ 

makeovers, haircuts, 
~C11res,~ntass~es 


TI.Jis T11esda;y 
7-9pm LaFortune Ballroom 
Free.food(/;.fkn!oredco.fli!es, l'oo! 
broughttoyouby SUB 
Tuesday, September 26, 199.5 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Clinton finds success in foreign endeavors 
Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store 



BACK-TO-CAMPUS SAVINGS. 
By TERENCE HUNT 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Constantly criticized on for­eign policy, President Clinton is savoring a rare moment of suc­cess as American diplomats b r o k e r Bosnian peace talks and the White House prepares for another Middle East signing cere­

mony. Clinton It's wei­come news for an ad­ministration battered by the Republican revolution on Capi­tol Hill. But, sadly for Ciinton, foreign-policy achievements usually play better in the his­tory books than in the voting booth. 
Ask George Bush, the politi­cal hero of Desert Storm. Or Jimmy Carter, the architect of the first major peace agree" ment in the Middle East. 
"Clinton will find that his for­eign-policy record and 60 cents will get him a cup of coffee and two votes," said University of Virginia political scientist Larry Sabato. 
"Except in times of war, 

The Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store welcomes you back to Notre Dame University with a special offer: 
20% Off on your entire purchase, now through October 8th. 
Present this ad and show your current student !.D., you'll save an additional 20% on everything. 

FREE 

PuoNE CALLs 
An Exauufl'l'"atz"on? 
oor:;,'' 
Not if you're spending 
more than 25 bucks a 
month talking to people in 
Elkhart, Goshen, Bristol, 
Dunlap, Middlebury and 
Wakarusa areas. Why pay high long distance charges when you can pay a low flat monthly fee? You can call as often as you want and 
talk as long as you wish for only $23.00 per month. No special lines or installation needed. We can start your service today! 

J-800-360-4990
L..---------......1 
Americans don't care a lot 
about foreign policy," Sabato 
said. "The only time they vote 
on foreign policy is when there 
is a direct domestic interest." 
Foreign policy has never 
been Clinton's strong suit. 
For most of his presidency, 
his approval rating in that area 
has been under 40 percent. 
Yet, there were never great ex­
pectations on that score. 
After all, Clinton was elected 
to fix health care and other 
domestic problems, replacing a 
president who, many 
Americans felt, spent too much 
time looking overseas. 
"The biggest beef about Bill 
Clinton is that he hasn't 
achieved much" in domestic 
policy, said pollster Andrew 
Kohut of the Times-Mirror 
Center for the People and the 
Press. 
Still, Kohut said, "for Clinton, success in foreign policy can potentially translate into a sense that he is achieving things and accomplishing things, which is not unimpor­tant to his public image." 
Clinton will be able to show­case his foreign policy skills Thursday when PLO chief Vasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin come to the White House to sign an agreement ending Israeli occu­pation of West Bank cities. It will be a high-profile follow up to the historic handshake of peace between Arafat and Ra­bin on the White House lawn in 1993
· 
Aggressive U.S. diplomacy, backed by NATO air strikes,
also helped bring about Bosnian peace negotiations in
New York. While nothing is predictable in the Balkans, the administra­tion says the talks present "the most promising opportunity to 
date for peace." 
Despite recent successes, Clinton's record remains under attack. 
"U.S. foreign policy under this administration has been marked by a lack of assertive­
ness, a lack of credibility and a lack of resolve -in sum, a lack of leadership," Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, who is seek­ing the Republican presidential 
nomination, said last week. Not surprisingly, Clinton has a different perspective. 


get the Inside Track on admissions 
Cometooneofour 

•:@l.tgijf§tftlt 4£NfflH• 
free seminars· 


Tonight! 7·8:30 pm 1-800-KAP·TEST DeBartolo Hall 





KAPLAN

'N. ll4lloclod locations. Not llll....,....,. oHoted at lllllocatlona. 
come: 
~. OH 
~ 
C.hrislie Bicorice 



page6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 26, 1995 

Perot embraces third party Lugar faces Concord 


Sophomores 
Atrium 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In a turnabout that could re­shape the 1996 elections, Ross Perot has decided to embrace efforts by supporters in Cali­fornia to form a new political party, leaders of his organiza­ti-on said Monday. 
If successful, the effort is expected to quickly spread to other states. 
Leaders of Perot's United We Stand ·America organization said they did not view the effort as a sign that Perot hoped to run as the new party's candi­date in 1996. 
Indeed, some took it as a sign he would not run, noting that it was far easier and less expen­sive to qualify as an indepen­dent candidate, as Perot did in 1992. 
"If he wanted to run for pres­ident, there is a lot easier route available," said Platt Thompson, the United We Stand executive director in California. 
"This is not a vehicle for a Perot campaign," said Joan Vinson, the Maryland executive director. Still, both said they \1\!0uld support Perot if he did run. 
If the effort is successful na­tionally, Vinson said, this new party could be available to "a candidate like Colin Powell or Bill Bradley or Ross Perot or Sam Nunn." 
Perot planned to make "a 

major political announcement" 
Monday night on CNN's "Larry 
King Live." Aides at the Dallas 
United We Stand headquarters 
declined to discuss his plans in 
advance. 
But several other United We 

Stand leaders said they had 
been informed that Perot would embrace the California effort. dent-minded people who are in That would set off an intense United We Stand may not want 

Coalition, U.S. deficit 
organizational scramble in the to." 
By ADOLPHE BERNOTAS cord Coalition, a group that ad­state, where the deadline for Arizona, for example, has a 
Associated Press vocates eliminating deficit
qualifying a new party for the United We Stand chapter that is spending.
1996 ballot ls just a month in open rebellion against the CONCORD Lugar answered four stockaway. Maine and Ohio also Dallas headquarters. "I don't Republican presidential questions that will be put to allhave 1995 deadlines. know of anyone here who hopeful Richard Lugar said major presidential candidates, Those familiar with the plans wants to do a third party," said Monday that unless Washing­who have been asked to ad­said they expected members of Mary Lou Stanley, the Arizona ton balances the budget, the dress the coalition establishedUnited We Stand organizations executive director. 
nation will be 
by former U.S. Sens. Paulin Maine and Ohio to quickly 
"using up the Tsongas of Massachusetts andfollow California, and predicted During the spring, Perot sent 
seed corn" Warren Rudman of Newstates with later deadlines each United We Stand chapter 
needed to Hampshire.would follow suit. "I would be a detailed questionnaire on 
invest in the A coalition spokesman saidsurprised if it doesn't sweep state ballot laws, and most 
country's no other candidate has set aacross the nation," said chapters held spring and sum­
growth. date to speak to the group. Thompson. mer meetings to determine the 
The U.S. Lugar said he would increase The requirements for certify­level of interest in a new party. 
senator from defense spending slightly anding a new party vary widely "Don't think for a minute that Indiana said Lugar keep current levels of expendi­from state to state. the legwork hasn't been done," that as part tures in scholarships, schoolIn California, .supporters said Dawn Larson, a United We of the GOP drive to cut spend­lunches and the Women, In­would need to gather signa­Stand activist in Illinois. 
ing by $650 billion and to bal­fants and Children programs. 
tures from 890,000 registered Until now, however, Perot ance the budget by the year Defense cuts, he said, are avoters expressing support for and his top aides have been 2002, politicians no longer shy dilemma "because they meanthe idea. decidedly cool to the idea, using away from mentioning means jobs."
Or, they would have to con­their public comments on the testing for Social Security bene­Lugar's largest cuts in thevince 89,000 people to register issue to list the significant or­fits. seven-year zero-deficit pro­as members of the new party, a ganizational and financial re­"The issue is out there. It has gram include $270 billion instep likely to be within reach quirements. 
been the unmentionable. It is Medicare, $170 billion in Medi­
given the 2. 3 million votes Perot and Russ Verney, 
being mentioned," he said. caid, $48 billion in farm aidPerot received in California in United We Stand's national ex­Lugar said he would support and $32 billion in food stamps. 
1992. ecutive director, also have spo­means testing -lowering ben­In either event, the deadline ken about the benefits of being efits for wealthier seniors -if He said he opposes newto make the 1996 ballot is Oct. aligned with neither party, it were included in the com­taxes, adding that he would re­
24. serving instead as a swing 
promise to balance the budget. place all federal income taxesIn Ohio, 33,000 signatures group in the political center. 
Lugar commented before the with a 17-percent nationalare required by Nov. 19. Any Given those comments, it was Statehouse chapter of the Con-sales tax. 
effort there could be compli­unclear what led Perot to sud­cated by internal power strug­denly embrace the California gles within the state United We idea, particularly just a month Stand chapter. before the deadline. 
Maine, Perot's best state in "If this is what the grass­
TRUMAN
1992, requires 25,551 signa­roots leaders in California tures by Dec. 14 if the party wanted, then why wouldn't he 
SCHOLARSHIP
wants to qualify to run candi­get on board?" said Larson. dates for state offices as well as "When the people lead, the president. In other states the leaders will follow." 
Infonnat:lon Meeting
deadlines are scattered Thompson, the California ex­
for

throughout 1996. ecutive director, also left the "I am quite dubious that they impression that Perot would be 
JUNIORS interested in Publlc Service will be able to do this," said a reluctant convert. "I think it 
Wednesday, September 27, 1995 Richard Winger, editor of the has been the input from the 
4:30-5:15p.m. 114 O'Shaughnessy Hall
newsletter Ballot Access News. people that has dictated it," he "Many of these very indepen-said. 
Finance Club 






CarewNight 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 26, 1995 page 7 


• AND IN THIS CORNER ••• 
Is Notre Dame merely a football fun factory? 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Going to Church doesn't 
make you a Christian anymore than going to the garage makes you a car." 
-Dr. Laurence J. Peter 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor ......•........... Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................}en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, • Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns prescnr the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 IIJews/Photo · 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu Generallnfonnation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
MoNSTER WHEELCHAIR 
RALLY 
E
nough of my hedging. Let me intro­duce myself properly. I am a gradu­ate student at Notre Dame, and I can only afford to go here thanks to a schol­arship whose funding is provided through the campus bookstore receipts (keep this in mind if I seem to complain too much: I am not ungrateful to be here). 
I'm originally from Upstate New York -no, not Buffalo. Most people ap­parently don't realize that there is something between Buffalo and New York City besides the Syracuse football dome. There are millions of acres of rural land dotted with small towns, not u,rlike many parts of the Midwest. 
I got my B.S. from a small liberal arts college called Bard 
in Upstate. It's not guidance. 
surprising that not Matt Apple This is not to many people have say that Bard heard of it. Most of doesn't care the one thousand about its stu­students there come dents. But there from new York City, is a difference 
Connecticut or New Jersey, so, as you might imagine, it's much different than Notre Dame. This is one reason why it's been a little diffi­cult for me to adjust to the "Domers" way of life. Let me explain. 
H
Bard does not have a football team. Whereas Notre Dame seems to be known only for football, Bard is known for being radical and intellectual. There are sports teams there, but Bard does not offer sports scholarships, and subse­quently sports are not very important or popular (or played well, for that matter). ow it is possible for college students to Jive. through an academic year without a football game? The answer is quite simple: Parties. There are lots and lots of parties at Bard, and not many of them are related at all to what at Notre Dame is evidently called "the dorm family." 
While Bard freshmen are housed col­lectively, everyone else enters a "room draw" based on seniority. Despite this, dorms often acquire peculiar character­istics from the various personalities who live there, thus retaining some sem­blance of a familial unit. However, interpersonal relationships are chosen, not forced. 
This difference between dorm settings strikes me as a crucial one. At Bard the student quickly learns how to meet peo­ple he or she has never encountered before, whether of different race, reli­gion, ethnicity, or sexual preference. Unlike Notre Dame, which seems to demand that its students obey it as a surrogate parent, Bard insists that its' students learn how to deal with problems them­selves with mini­mal outside 
between being protective and being supportive. From what I have seen so far at Notre Dame, undergraduate students here are al­lowed few privileges and responsibilities outside of their academic duties. 
Instead, students are trapped in the he same dorm year after year, funneled along the same sidewalks every day to classes which will perpetuate the end­less cycle of the drab American work­place, subjected to moral brainwashing and stultifying homogeneity, while the arena is elevated as the only acceptable outlet for aggression and expression in the form of hero worship and Nuremburg Rally-archetypal chants. 
To cut to the chase, my main problems with Notre Dame society are football, bureaucracy, beer and religion. And please, for Christ's sake, don't take any of this personally. I'm talking generali­ties here. I have met many friendly, intelligent people here; it's the overall mentality which irks me. My difficulty assimilating the culture here stems from living outside Main Street, USA for four years, and now that I find myself living so close to the "normal" mindset, I dis­cover many harmful things in it. 
Again, I'm not writing this to vilify Notre Dame students whose parents evi­dently chose long ago to shelter them from undesirable aspects of the outside world. For the most part, many stu­dents here seem to have never experi­enced life outside this oppressive Catholic atmosphere, and I find that really sad, almost scary. College should 
b.e a time of experimentation and dis­covery, not indoctrination and intellectu­al cowardice. Heightened social aware­ness, consciousness-raising, if you will. 
Yes, I'm a self-professed egotistical anarchist. Who likes beer. B-E-E-R. It's good for the body, good for the soul. 
G-0-0-D. 
That said, I can now turn to the topic at hand ("I told you that to tell you this ... "), namely Interhall football. Now, I like sports: there's nothing wrong with sports, per se, provided the goal is enjoyment, pleasure, personal satisfac­tion or contentment. Me, I like to win, but if I don't it's no big deal. It's just a game. They're all just games. 
O
Combining sports, namely football, with the "We Are Family" dorm attitude on campus results in a model of American foreign policy, the "us" versus "them" Big Brother attitude the U.S. has been forcing down the collective throats of all of its rightfully resentful neigh­bors. nly in America are students taught to view their fellows as competitors. Only in America are we taught that the only way to enjoy life is to beat the hell out of somebody. "No!" you say, "you've gone too far!" Then why is everyone so up in arms about an "ofT-campus" sports team? An undergraduate who moves off-campus in preparation for living independently in the real world should be forbidden to participate in recreation sports because he has somehow "be­trayed" his former dorm? 
I
All of these complaints about students playing against their former dormmates -these guys are "traitors" for some "dorm spirit" reason-does no one find this ridiculous except me? It's just a game. Repeat after me. It's-just-a­game. Who cares who wins-recreation sports are just diversions to break up the monotony of classwork. blame the dorm mentality here; I've been told that dorms take the place of frats, since there are none here. There were no frats at Bard, and we didn't need to be stuck in the same dorm every year to have fun. We didn't need a dorm family in order to have friends, either. 
I concede the importance of freshmen dorms to ease the transition into college life, but to make everybody stay put is completely unnecessary. Creating false families and alliances, false enemies and rivalries -how is a student supposed to mature as a person with all of this smoke-and-mirror societal fabrication? 
You could make the argument that it is important to prepare students for roles in American society. The American Way, you might say, is based upon rivalries and competition, pitting families and communities against one another in the modern, free market cap­italistic, eat-or-be-eaten fact of life. 
Maybe it's wrong. Maybe there are already too many robots and zombies out there, and maybe there are already too many university factories churning out more. Maybe Notre Dam6 doesn't have to be a factory. 
And maybe it's just okay to want to play football for the hell of it and damn the consequences. or does everyone think football is the most important thing in this life? NEXT WEEK: Loans, Beer, and You. 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing grad student at Notre Dame currently researching his next column. contact him at matthew. t. apple.1 @nd. edu for snide and witty banter . 

-----------------------------------------------·--~--~--~--------~----~--J-----, 


VIEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, September 26, 1995 
• DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES 

Police signal threat for many African-Americans 
As I stood outside the restaurant, searching traffic for the friends who were to meet me for dinner, a police car drove by. Secret sirens screamed, muted lights flashed, silent alarms rang violently... yet all in my head. They made me uncomfortable and, as I resist­ed them, I became all the more dis­turbed. 
Growing up, my favorite shows were always police dramas, like "The Rookies", "One Adam 12" and "The Mod S.quad." .Balmy, summer afternoons were spent playing cops, rounding up bad guys until dusk. 
Indeed, one of my first books was about a smiling cop named Dan. What a the prospect of driving. Just as I finished driver's ed, however, reality dealt me a bad card. Milwaukee's "finest" mistak­enly arrested and brutally beat to death a local honor student. To them, he really seemed to be just another "suspicious­looking, young, black male." To my mother, however, he was a horrible vision of what could happen to me. Driving had to wait until freshman year at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame! The freedom of college years beckoned. One sunny day, as I walked past that little, trickling fountain behind The Huddle, a man approached me and asked if I was a Notre Dame stu­dent. I figured he probably needed 

treasure that book 
directions, so I was to me! stopped and Somehow, the anxi-proudly said yes. ety of that speeding The next thing I police car triggered Melvin knew, he was ask­my long-lost memo­ing to see my stu­ry of him with his dent ID. That's
Tardy

happy smile and when I noticed his sparkling gold but­badge and blue tons on a blue uni-uniform. Moments form. As I stood later, when the 
there, still awaiting my friends, Dan's smile made me remember the way things used to be. 
I remembered days when the sun streamed in to play with my brother, sis­ter and I in the back seat of my parents' old Volkswagen. Suddenly, a thrill! A police car was behind us! Oh, what a joy to wave to them! We saw them as guardian angels, our heroes. We waved and. waved until eventually they would smile, like Dan the Cop, and wave back. 
Over the years, the police characters of "Hill Street Blues", "Starsky and Hutch", even "Barney Miller" became personal favorites. Only recently have I been cognizant of the change. Pinpointing the time of this change has been like finding the moment a sprinkle turns into a shower or a shower becomes rain. 
Perhaps it was during high school, after my family moved to Milwaukee. Like most teenagers, I was thrilled at 
brief interrogation was over, I rationalized to myself that ND security probably made the same mistake with other students. 
Another memorable freshman moment occurred during summer school. A campus security guard stopped me as I rode my bicycle, asked to see my student ID, then made me lock and unlock my bike in his presence because, as he said, "We've had a rash of bike thefts lately." He neglected to mention the part about my being a sus­picious-looking, young, black male ... but I got the message. 
My student ID became like an AMEX travelers check; if I did leave my dorm without it, I made sure I could remem­ber the names of landmarks or profes­sors, in case I needed to prove that I was truly a student to someone. It never occurred to me that this was unfair or unusual at the time. 
I've heard the insincerely-spoken 

phrase "Can I help you?" from so many security guards (or self-appointed guard dogs) over the years that, no matter who says it now, it always translates to me as "What's the problem here!" Similarly, I remember going to the Milwaukee Art Museum once with my Mom. A museum guard shadowed us to every room we visited (but barely noticed the white patrons, who moved in and out of exhib­it rooms freely.) 
Over the years, I have begun to associ­ate feelings of threat, not security, with police. When police appear, I immedi­ately begin to check myself to see if I am giving them any reason to suspect me of anything. I even went through a phase where I wondered if, in an emergency, I would have enough faith to call the police. 
I guess you could call me paranoid. I know I'm not alone. To some extent, it isn't unjustified. From footage of police dogs ripping innocent kids during the Civil Rights Movement to the Rodney King video, there is evidence of a sour relationship between this nation's typi­cally white, male police force and African Americans (particularly young men). 
Media stereotypes are partially responsible, too. Not long ago (i.e. before the Bill Cosby Show), African­American characters for TV and movies invariably were poor, pimps or prosti­tutes. If they weren't, they had connec­tions with the said "three p's", which their white counterparts took advantage of to solve crimes and become heroes 
(i.e. remember Huggy Bear?) 
Even news media seem more apt to show an African-American accused of a crime, typically in handcuffs or through narrative (i.e. "a young, black man...") than similarly accused whites, for whom a spokesperson, panoramic view of a courthouse or non-descript narrative 
(i.e. "a young man...") will suffice. I'm not saying the media does this con­sciously. Nevertheless, such images cre­ate and manifest stereotypes that are difficult to ignore. How else could politi­
• MAY THE fORCE BE WITH YOU 


Flying the friendly skies over campus 

Campus pop quiz: How many planes fly over Saint Mary's and Notre Dame per day? A thousand. Six or seven hundred. Certainly enough to cast continuous shadows on the lawns and deafen any Saint Mary's pro­fessor at least three or four times during a lecture. 
"On the average, there are 500 planes flying over the area a day," said Barry Jefferies, Air Traffic Manager of th.e Michiana Regional Airport. "We take planes as fast as they come. And most of them fly directly over cam­pus." 
In fact, landmarks on both Saint Mary's and Notre 
gy, the school turned out the light in the Le Mans' tower -the highest spot on Saint Mary's campus. Pilots who frequent the airport, use the tower's light as a guide. 
Anyway, an airport official called and requested the light be turned on to give pilots back their beacon at night. In the day, the Dome is a sufficient guide for landing. But at night, pilots look toward LeMans' tower as their guide. 
According to Jefferies, 75 percent of all planes that land at the airport fly over Notre dame, Indiana. Many people complain about noise pollution and the close proximity of the planes, about 900 feet above ground at Saint Mary's and 1200 feet above ground at Notre Dame. 
Thus I went to great heights, up the airport's control tower, to investigate the situation. I check!Jd out the tower's MTI or moving target indicator, which acts as a giant rotating X-ray machine. And I was moved by the experience. 
The MTI creates shadow pictures of fixes (imaginary highways in the sky), and the topography of the land within a 50 mile radius. Needless to say, Saint Mary's looked like a smashed raisin while Notre Dame, to the west, looked more like a mutilated grape. 
So why do so many planes fly over head? 
As it turns out, radio beams sent from the airport towards incoming planes -beams that assist the planes in landing -shoot just to the left of the Golden Dome. Navigation equipment uses this as the means to guide planes on a direct course to the airport. If a plane's decent is good, it will sway only a little to the right or left of the beams. 
Ideally. planes are expected to make a beeline over 
the extension of Lake Drive thatDame campus have assisted planes 
land for the past 60 years. And never 
lies in front of the Grotto, over 
was pilots' dependence on the Saint Mary's Main Drive and 
schools' monuments fully realized over Holy Cross Hall. When 
until the late 1970s, at the time of the Kara planes pass over Holy Cross 1 
second energy crisis. One retired Hall, they drop their wheels and 
Saint Mary's security officer remem­prepare for the "final 
bers a call she received from the Pavlik approach." 
Michiana airport. To test this theory, Jefferies First a quick explanation about the suggests that one stand in the 
situation. In an attempt to save ener­middle of any intersection along 

the extension of Lake Drive or the Main Drive and look towards the sky. 
Although the constant humdrum of planes have grown to be an annoyance, the radio beams that extend over head allow planes to land in a secure fashion. The beams assist planes land during times of South Bend's heavy snow, rain and fog. And, more important than silence in the skies, is the reliability of a safe landing. 
Still, there have been times when planes have miscal­culated their airspace and given students quite a scare. In the fall of 1994, one plane flew so close to the top of Holy Cross Hall that even residents in the basement awoke fearing they were in the middle of an earth­quake. 
Aside from a possible disaster, the planes are here to stay. After six decades of planes flying the same route and landing on runway 27, the sight and sounds of planes have come to be expected. 
Thankfully. planes make half the noise landing as they do taking off. 
Kara Pavlik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached via e-mail pavl7087@jade.saintmarys.edu 
cians have used the Willie Horton ad so effectively? 
Deep down inside, I still admire police. Most are good people with very difficult jobs. Yet, there are flaws in our societal fabric. The role of police is to keep the peace, but whose peace? Does "keeping the peace" mean keeping African­Americans from feeling comfortable in predominantly white neighborhoods and universities; confined to certain commu­nities? Does it pertain to said African­American communities where often times children cannot play in the front yard after school for fear of stray bul­lets, drug pushers and harrassive police?" 
A few years ago, when our nation's cities rioted after shocking acquittals in a trial of four Los Angeles policemen (which the media often mistakenly refers to as the "Rodney King" trial), I participated in hurried workshops with local police and citizens. We concluded that misunderstandings and lack of communication served to exacerbate tensions between police and the African­American community. 
Suggested solutions involved increas­ing the number of patrol cops, recruiting more African-Americans to the police force, requiring sensitivity training for all cops, and encouraging positive inter­action between cops and young people on the streets. I hear similar ideas being debated nationally these days. Hopefully, good things will come of those debates, too. 
When I see police, I try to feel at peace, but I yearn for smiling Dan the Cop, who made me feel safe, not threat­ened. Someday, perhaps smiling Dan will return, and I'll feel that warm secu­rity of my childhood again. Until then, however, I can't help but feel that such wishes are nothing but a fairy tale. 
Melvin Tardy, Jr., ND '86, '90, works in the Office of Admissions. He can be reached over e-mail at: melvin.r. tardy.l @nd. edu 




ACC~NT 
Tuesday, September 26, 1995 page 9 
~~~~~ 
/ ~~ /'~~ / ~~/·~~ /'~~ 
Revenge of the Roaches 
Cockroaches march their way into students, rooms and nightmares 
By PAT MITSCH 
Accent Writer 
R
oaches. The very word causes people 
to cringe and to check the floor around 
their feet. No one likes them, no one wants them, but unfortunately, most people get them. They have always had the dubious distinction of being the woi-ld's most hated insect and the only thing that can survive a nuclear war. 
Most people consider everything that is small, brown and creepy to be a cockroach but actually there are several varieties of the common roach. The most familiar kind to the South Bend area is the "spella sepellectilium" (or brown-banded cockroach to all non-bug majors). These roaches like warm weather, but were still able to move to cold climates like Notre Dame because of the use of heated buildings. That is why most cockroaches live in basements, near corners or furnaces where it's dark and humid. 
One of the things that make the cockroach such a well-known pest is the fact that every­one you will ever talk to has one great cock­roach story involving one of the following: a shower stall, a late night pizza with 
the roommates, or the moving of furniture around the dorm room. And Notrn Dame has it's share of great roach stories. Kelly Goss, a Howard freshman, recalls a couple of weeks ago when she was going to take a shower in the bathroom one morning. She says that "I went into the bath­room and I saw a dead cockroach floating in the water of my shower caddy." 
Tonya Lauridsen, a junior in Pangborn, has seen roaches in the kitchen and in the ele­vator and Mat Kellam, a Morrissey junior, comments that "the roaches hide out in the spaces behind the mirrors." Obviously though, some make their way from those hid­den spaces. According to Morrrisey freshman Mike Thelan, "I was in the room across the hall when I heard a scream. I ran to my room to find out that my roommate had just seen a cockroach so big that it woke him up from a nap when it walked across the room." 
Kelly Nicholas, a sophomore in Walsh, rocounts that one evening in a study room, "We were all studying and a cockroach was crawling around under someone's feet." 
With all of these disgusting stories, it's no wonder why exterminators are doing such good business when it comes to cockroach infestation. However, Mr. Lamberth of the South Bend branch of Terminix, comments that " there is no way to get rid of all roaches on the first trip. Anytime you see a company advertise one-time extermination or ultra­sonic pBst control you must realize that those techniques are 23rd century science fiction Buck !lodgers stuff." And since most Notre Dame students are not fortunate enough to have Buck Rodgers technology, most resort to more primitive means of extermination. 
K.C. Dugal, a Walsh freshman, says that one night when she and two of her room­mates we up talking, "a big cockroach started crawling towards us at a very fast pace, I picked up my shoe and slammed it on the cockroach three times and the legs were still moving." According to other residents of Walsh, a huge roach came out 3 times at the beginning of the year so they put out a roach motel... but their guest was too big for it. 
At Howard, everyone seemed to have their own ways of killing roaches. According to freshman Laura Colleton, "We tried to kill a cockroach with roach powder but it was mov­ing after a day so we just stomped on it." Goss says that "everyone has their own bottle of HAID because the roaches are just moving their way down the hall." 
Staci Shively, another Howard freshman, agreed with Goss, saying that "everyone has their turn" when it comess to cockroach infestation. 
However, most roaches are either dead or in hiding now because over the summer, the University 

sprayed many of the dorms for pests, includ­ing cockroaches. Lamberth comments that many times after a spraying, "the insecticides drive the roaches deeper in to the walls" because they are a "very resilient insect." And even exterminators are not immune to the presence of cockroaches. Lamberth says that last week he and his wife were eating Chinese food when "a cockroach fell out of one of the napkins." 
' }was in the room across the 
hall when I heard a scream. I ran to my room to find out that my roommate had just seen a cockroach so big that it woke him up from a nap when it walked across the room.' 
Mike The/an 

So, there are not many things that one can do once cockroaches are introduced to an area. But there are a few preventative mea­sures one can take to avoid cockroaches. For example, do not leave extra food lying 
around the room, put a towel  under your  
door to keep  the hall roaches  out of your  
room ... and don't go to Howard.  


• MEDICAL MINUTE 


Designer Genes 
ByJOHN GALVIN Accent Medical Correspondent 
T
he wine is chilled, the table set, the candles lit. Soft light emanates from the house plant in the corner. The dimmed room is ready for a romantic dinner for two ... 
Stop! ... soft lighting from a plant? It sounds completely crazy. but to a plant biotechnologist, the idea isn't that far-fetched. In fact, a house plant that glows is quite feasible. Biotechnologists recently succeeded in inserting the gene that makes fireflies glow into a tobacco plant. The botanic glow can only be seen with a machine that amplifies light. But imaginative scientists see the day. in the not-too­distant future, when glowing plants along the driveway might actual­ly light your way into the garage. 
The genetic make-up and biochemical processes of bacteria, yenst, and plants can be altered and coerced into yielding useful new prod­ucts for humans. Drugs and antibiotics produced through biotechnol· ogy are already on the market. The new science will affect the way our food is grown and processed in the coming years. too. 
Ten years ago, biotechnology was one of the hottest new fields of scientific endeavor. News magazines ran euphoric cover stories on its limitless potential. Hundreds ofsmall biotech companies entered the market, fueled with venture capital from the stock market, but with far mote years of research ahead than they ever imagined. Almost all ofthe companies went bankrupt. and the new science failed to deliv­er on its initial promises. Now. a smaller, more sober group of biotechnologists realizes that inserting a new gene Into a plant, or convincing an unwitting bacteria to produce unlimited quantities of pure drug compounds. simply doesn't happen overnight. 
. Citrus Crops in South Bend?... 
Research on "transgenic" plants-plants that are given genes from another living organism-is one area of biotechnology thai survived the initial bumps, and is now moving ahead rapidly. Scientists are gettin~ quite skillful at introducing foreign genes into plant cells, and at gettmg those genes to prodQce the protein they created in the orig· inal organism, be it plant or animal. 
Take, for example, the insertion of a gene from a fish into a plant. The gene, taken from the North Atlantic flounder, produces a protein that works like antifreeze in the fishes' cells, allowing it t.o swim in very cold waters without its tissues freezing. Scientists have managed to get the fish gene to express itself (that is, produce the antifreeze) in plant cells in a petri dish. The cells froze at 1.8 degrees Celsius lower than the cells that did not receive the gene. The scientist.<> are now working to achieve the same effect in a whole plant, and predict that they'll reach their goal of a frost-resistant plant within ten years. 
One~ they succeed, antifreeze genes will go into other crop species, especially those that are planted early or late in the season when frost threatens, such as broccoli and brussels sprouts. Giving crops frost tolerance would extend the growing season on eitl1er end. Farmers could plant earlier, and perhaps even grow two crops instead of one. 
Chew On This... 
Willow, the source of the active ingredient in aspirin, is probably the best-known example of a plant that yields a useful drug. Yet there are others. An interesting example is bloodroot. Native Americans and Canadians have been chewing the root of this wood· land flower for centuries. The plant's root contains a natural antibi­otic called sanguinarine, which keeps the gums and teeth healthy. 
Pharmaceutical companies have been harvesting wild bloodroot to produce sanguinarine. But. a few years ago, scientists, while doing research on morphine compounds produced by the giant poppy, dis· covered that by manipulating biochemical processes inside a poppy cell, they could get it to produce sanguinarine Instead of morphine. 
A drug company is now raising giant poppy cells in large fermen­tation vats. Once they've multiplied, the cells are harvested by cen· trifuge, broken open. and their sanguinarine extracted. The com­pound is used in the production of toothpaste and mouthwash. 
Weeds... A Cure for Cancer? 
A more critically important drug L<~ extracted from the Madagascar periwinkle, a distant cousin of the common ground cover: "periwiu­kle". In the 1960s, researchers were the first to isolate cathnra.nthln, a compound used in making anti-cancer drugs, from periwinkle plants. But the labor-intensive technique of extracting the drug directly from the plant made it prohibitively expensive. 
A few years ago, researchers at a. biotech company began growing periwinkle cells in fermentation vats. They even figured out which cells produced the most of the compound, and grew only those. Large quantities of catharanthin can now be produced quickly and cheaply. It is the basic starting chemical in the production of vincristin and vinblastin-two drugs for treating Hodgkin's disease and childhood leukemia. Remission rates go from 20 to 80 percent in children treat­ed with the drugs. 
Scientists finding more weeds that yield a cure for cancer, fish that harvest hardier crops, and wildflowers that produce antibotlcs..we all learn that each and every life has great potential. Even that ugly pest crawling across your dorm room floor may just be carrying the cure for AIDS. So be careful what you swu.t. hurt, or klll ... it just might save you one day. 
John Galvin is a Pre-MecVEnglish major. He can be reachedfor questions and comments at: John.P.Galvin.3@nd.edu 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 26, 1995 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 

Castillo loses no-hitter in the ninth, Cubs win 7-0 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Frank Castillo came within one strike of pitching the first Chicago Cubs' no-hitter in 23 years, losing it on two-out triple in the ninth inning by Bernard Gilkey in a 7-0 win Monday night over St. Louis. 
"You get to two strikes, it can be heartbreaking," Castillo said. "But I look at it as some­thing positive, something spe­cial. It's a game I'll always re­member." 
Castillo, who struck out a ca· reer-high 13, fanned the first two batters in the ninth and tben got abead. 0-2 on Gilkey. 
But on a 2-2 pitch, Gilkey hit a line drive to right-center field. Right fielde Sammy Sosa charged and dived, but the ball bounced several feet away and rolled for a triple. 

"I was telling myself, 'Don't get too excited, stay focused,"' he said. "As soon as I threw it, I wanted it back. Sammy made a great effort and he almost came up with it. ... I think I tried to throw it too hard." 
Castillo retired the next bat­ter on a fly ball to Sosa for a one-hitter. 
Castillo is the fifth pitcher to lose a no-hitter in the fmal in­ning this season. He was trying to become the first Cubs pitcher to throw a no-hitter since Milt Pappas against San Diego on Sept. 2, 1972, which also was the last no-hitter at Wrigley Field. 
Ramon Martinez of Los 
Angeles pitched the only no-hit­ter this year, beating Florida 7­0 on July 14. 
As Gilkey's liner headed to­ward the gap, Castillo moved off the mound and curled his body, as if trying to guide the ball into Sosa's glove. But there was clearly no chance to make a play. 
First baseman Mark Grace went to the mound to console Castillo (11-10), and the paid crowd of 18,298 remained on its feet applauding, as it had throughout the ninth inning. 
Until Gilkey's hit, the only Cardinals runners came on walks. Ray Lankford walked with two outs in the first, and Castillo retired the next 16 bat­ters before walking Tripp Cromer with one out in the sev­enth. 
The hardest ball the Cardinals hit before Gilkey was a liner by Lankford that short­stop Jose Hernandez caught to end the fourth. 
The closest the Cardinals had come to a hit was leading the eighth, when Grace dived to his right for a grounder by John Mabry and threw from his knees to Castillo at first base. 
The 26-year-old right-hander pitched his second complete game in 28 starts. He has two shutouts in his career, both this year. Last June 15, he pitched 6 1-3 perfect innings in a win over San Francisco. 
Castillo's previous career high for strikeouts was 10. His best low-hit game was a three­hitter on Aug. 27, 1991, against the Dodgers in a 2-1 victory. 
Castillo is in his fifth season with Chicago. As a minor lea­guer with the Cubs in 1990, he pitched a seven-inning no-hitter for Double-A Charlotte against Huntsville. 
Other pitchers losing no-hit­ters in the last inning this year were Pedro Martinez of Montreal, David Cone, then with Toronto, Mike Morgan of St. Louis and Paul Wagner of Pittsburgh. 
Pedro Martinez lost a perfect game in the lOth, while Wagner had his no-hitter bro­ken up by Andres Galarraga with two outs in the ninth. 
Castillo got all the support he needed in the first when Chicago scored four times against Alan Benes (0-2). Sosa and Luis Gonzalez had RBI sin­gles. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9 PM THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR 255-0458 NEED 10 DUKE TUMATOE LIVE OCT. 5 
BED&BFST LOVELY ROOM WITH PRIVATE BATH. SLEEPS 2-SMC & NO PARENTS & FRIENDS. 272-5989 
NO @ WASHINGTON -2 Obi Rms Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch for 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise tQ/from game. No game tkts. $600. Mike (206)575-0711. 
The Superbowl of Company 
Presentations is Finally Here! Leo 
Burnett Advertising @ Senior Bar -Wed. Night 6:.30 PM: Dress 
Casually 

ILOST&FOUNDI 
LOST: gold necklace with cross and heart charm inscripted "Andy" on back. Please call 0930 if foundll 


WANTED .
I 
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)545-4155 ext A55841 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­
Earn up to $2,000+/month on 
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­
nies. World travel. Seasonal & full­
time employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more 
information caii1-206-634-G468 
ext. C55841 
RIDE TO ND-OSU GAME. WILL 
SHARE COSTS AND DRIVING. 
PREFER TO SPEND FRI OR SAT 
NIGHT AT OSU, BUT NOT NEC. 
CALL MARC x0672 
TUTOR needed to come to my house (10 min. from NO) from 4:30 to 6:30 on Mon, Tues, Wed, Thur, and some Sun. Two high school students need help with Chemistry, Biology, Algebra. Will pay well. 272­8235. 
I NEED A RIDEI 
going to Cleveland Sept 29? 
will help w/ $ & driving 
Call Dan 4-1740 
I need a ride to Iowa City Sept.29­
Going that way?Call Leah x3735 
Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break 
Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best 
Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun, 
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break 
Travell1-800-678-6386 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 RIDERS WANTED NY/NJ to NO 

I am flying home and buying a car, but if I drive it back alone I think I will probably crash II. No gas $ nee., but I need you to spell me at the wheel. Smokers welcome. Call Josh @ 2n-9071 
Do you need a baby sitter??? I am available every day from 8.00 am until 3.45 pm call me: Martha 2n-3894 
Flexible work scheo.: about1­2hr/day Sat am. about10-15/wk. Need responsible, energetic, friend­ly person to help keep store clean/prepare classrooms. Call Erica's 233-3120 M W F 9-2 or Cathy 2n-9661. Outdoor help needed also. 
Tryouts for NBC's Friends TV Show would be nice, but Leo Burnett's Campus Presentation is even bet­ter! Wed Night 6:30; Senior Bar, DRESS CASUAL 
Guitarist and Singer looking for 
drummer and bassist to put togeth­
er an Alternative Band 
Call Ricky at4-1248 
Wanted: Servers, Asst. Cook, Dishwashers, and Cleaning person. Call The North Village Landing for 
your interview. 272-8180 
I FOR RENT I 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 
232-2595 
HOUSE TO SELL OR RENT. 
WALK TO NO. 315 NAPOLEON, 
3 BR, 1-1/2 B., 2-CAR GARAGE, 
UTILITIES. IDEAL 
FACULTY/STAFF HOME. AVAIL­
ABLE NOW. SALE $88,000, RENT 
$600/MO., PLUS UTILITIES. 277­
8946. 

Sub lease available @ Turtle Cr. 
for Spring sem. Call Jeff 273.4546 
2 bedroomed apartment for rent. One mile from Notre Dame. Possibility of keeping animal includ­ing horse, covered arena. 631-5118 or2n-5828 
Nicely decor. rms for rent ftball wknds 2 mi. N of campus, cont. brk­fst, reduced rates, call Kim 277­8340. 
ZEP HOUSE '96-97 
6 bedrms. Beach V-ball ct. 
273-0482, 234-3831 

FOR SALE 
1985 Honda Hatchback 
$1000/Best offer 708-957-1546 
(Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires 
& Brakes. 
SoloFiex/leg extensions/butterfly 
Treadmi!Veach 1 yr. old 
Call after 5PM 273-0487 
Camry 85, AC Cruise Cassette 4­
door Standard 153k Good 
Condition $1900 273-1483 Desktop PC 486/dx-33mhz with SoundBiaster FaxModem Printer MS(Word6.0 Excel5.0 Ppoint4.0) dos6.22 & 35 games $900 273-1483 
BIKE FOR SALE.272-6306 
'88 Toyota Tercel, 68k mi., excel. cond., AIC, good mileage. $3,500 or b/o. 2n-3503. 
!@#$#"%*"&%#@ @#$$% If you like BASS, you'll like this 150watt 15" SUBWOOFER Call4-1668 #@ $%&"*(()"&"%#$#$ 
Going to Med. School? Ward's Science Company 
Microscope Brand New, Top of the line! Very Powerful and Accurate Call Phillip, 273 -6540 
Brand New 25 Gal. Fishtank All Accesories included Call Philip 273 -6540 


TICKETS 
TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. BUY* SELL *TRADE {219) 232-0058-24 HRS. 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
Desperate for OSU GA's. Will Pay Mucho Dinero. Call Cora 284-5022. 
Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. Please call Cheryl x4883 
NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud tic to sell X2620 
Need USC GA'S 1 USC stud. needed Matt 288-3823 
USC TICKETS NEEDED-Please help me out. .. If you want to sell or work out a trade, please call Mel @ 273-0039. 
NeedTixlll OSU, ,BC, Navy call Tom 233-2289 
Help Wanted: Need GAs for USC-money no object. Brian x3692 
Wanted: 4 tickets together -any home game Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC Call 1-800-922-BEAR day 1-502-354-8826 collect in evening 
USC GATIX NEEDED 2718154 
SALE USC STUDS SOME MARRIED 2718154 
NEED up to 4 GAs for BC. Call x1398 
I need 5 USC tix. Stud. or GA Please call Margaret x2286 $$ 

Need 1-2 tix to SC game. Mel x1286 
B.C. TICKETS NEEDED $$$KEVIN X1233 
NEED 2 NO-USC TICKETS. CALL DICK AT 714-870-0716 COLLECT. 
NEED 2 BC TIXIII ! I II Please give me a call, my dad will pay ($$$) for the tix. Kevin -1177 
****Need 2 B.C. GA's**** Call Kristin @ 2377 
**I Have 2 U.S.C. GA's** Call Kristin @ 23n 
2 ND/OSU GA's FOR SALE BEST OFFER x3434 
Wanted: 1 -4 tickets for the Ohio State gamell Call: 219-294-3250 ask for bill, call before11 am and after2pm 
NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE 
X4905 
Will trade 4 Navy GA's for 2 USC 
GA's. Call Erin at #4021 
osu osu osu osu osu 
Who really wants to see Notre Dame stomp OSU? If that is you and you need 2 tix give Josh a call at277-4478. 
HELPINeed USC tickets, will pay 
lots,call Michelle,634-2497 
FOR SALE 2 BC GAs. 
708-328-3019 
NO ALUM NEEDS OHIO ST/ARMY TIX CALL MIKE 212-574-1071 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 
CA family needs 3 BC GAs. 
Please! 
Call Clara x4826 
1@#$%1@#$%!@#$%1@#$%1@# 
I NEED 2-4 OH STATE GA'S 
CALL JAY COLLECT @ 
(614) 766-2012 
AFTER7PM 
!@#$%!@#$%!@#$%!@#$%@# 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM 
ATX1899. 
Need 2 good tix for any of the dates 10/21, 10/28, 11/4. (515)486-2517 
Wanted two to four home game 
tickets. Call or write. 
314-731-7604 
GaryGoehl 
PO Box4152 
Hazelwood MO 63042 
Need GA's to any game 
Call Katie X1093 
Need UW tix: 273-9730 
NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$ CALL JAMIE 271-8662 
I NEED TEXAS, USC & OHIO ST 
GA TIXS.CONFIDENTIAL 272­
6306 ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR USC OHIO STATE WASH ga's personal use only 2n3097 
PLEASE HELP! I need 3 Navy GA's Call Betsy @ x3727 
I NEED TICKETS FOR THE WASHINGTON GAME. CALL CHRIS 4-4204 
Buying OSU stud. tix $100 please call Brian @ 634-3322 
$$ PLEASE HELP $$ 
'94 NO ALUM NEEDS 
BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX 
CALL 516-326-2659 
4 USC Tickets for Sale. 
Call4-4831. 
Want to go to Columbus? I have 2 NO vs. OSU TICKETS FOR SALE. Best offer goes to the game. Call Peteatx1461. 
I have 2 Ohio St. GAs for sale. 
Asking $500 for both or best offer! 
Cilll Matt at X-3931 
Sale 
USCSTUTIX 
Some Married 
2718154 
Need 6 NAVY GAs Chris x4010 
FOR SALE -1 OSU GA CALL ANN X2368 
Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home games. Call Tom at (312)280­2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or Greg at (708)253-7997 
2 OSU tix FOR SALE 
Call John@ 219 2n-5073 
WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC GAISTDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR 2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990­0890. 
2 OSU TIX for SALE 
x3254 
NIN NIN NIN NIN NIN NIN 
ticket (Oct1) for sale call x21 08 
Desparate alumni needs tix to Ohio State. Call Tom at708-848-7992. 
Desparate Alumni needs tix to 
Boston College. Call Tom at 708­
848-7992. 
COLUMBUS NATIVE WANTS TO 
SEE HOME TOWN TEAM GET 
KILLED BY NO. EMILY @ 273­
9840 
Notre Dame alum coming home for the USC _game, tickets desparately needed. Call818-792-2882 


PERSONAL 
She apologizes for her behavior 
Saturday night. 
He's bad, but he'll die. 
00¢ THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your conveniencelll Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon -Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
Looking for that special martial art? Aikido could be the one you've been searching for. It is gentle yet firm; soft yet powerful; athletic yet not too demanding. And it will sure­ly sweep you off of your feet! Come see our demo featuring Shlhan Fumio Toyoda, 6th degree black belt. 5p, Friday, Sep 29, Am 301 Rockne. Wear sweats if you want to start training ($5)1 
......................
.... -............. -... -... -------­ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE This Week: SWING/ JIVE and ADV. CHA-CHA 
6:30 PM tonight at 301 Rockne 
* professional instruction * only $3/lesson or $25/ sem. * one of the campus's largest 
organizations All who signed up at activities night are welcome! Bring a friend! 
• •••••••••••••••••••• *
-... ----... -..... ----------... 
Hey Sarah-Do you like tuna?? Dick 
Ah Ziggy, will you ever win? 
This is McFabulousll 
Are you serious Clark? 
Renaldo-Please where overallsll 3 horny women 
0o0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0a0C0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0c0c0c0c0o0o0c0c0c0 
The Days of Our Lives Correspondents are looking to expand their soap opera coverage. If you watch any soap every day religiously (except Days) call Erin or Christina, or heck, even Krista at 634-4220. You have to be willing to write at least 200 words a week on that soap. We're waiting ... 
Beets are yummylll Grapefruit is betterlll Cottage Cheese is the best of alii! I 
Thank you St.Jude for prayers answered. 
Tattos are just bad news for week­ends. 
Brian-Like I said, you have to get crazy to earn a classified. 
SS-Happy Tuesday! Are you happy now? Just kidding. 
Looking for a few Good Men St. Mary'sCharity Date Auction Dance Sept. 28 Volunteer to be a date for the night. Please Call Ana 284-5150, Caro 284-4402 or Katie 284-5223. 

Tuesday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
ltecSports-RecSports is of· fering eampus Ultimate Prls· bee, Campus Co-Ree Inner· tube Water Polo and m and Grad/Pac/Staff Racquetball Singles for both men and women. The deadline is Sept. 27 at 5:00 p.m. The eaptaln's meeting for Water I)olo is 5:30 p.m. and Frisbee at 6:15 p.m. on Sept. 28 in the Joyce Center Auditorium. 
For more info. calll-6100. 
Horseback Trail Ride­BecSports will be sponsoring a trail ride on Sunday, October 1 & October 8. Transportation will be provid· ed and you must register in advance at RecSports. l)o.rticipo.nts must have ridden a horse at least once. The fee 
is $15.00. 
Domer Runs-The runs will 
take place on Saturday, 
October 7 at 11 :00 a.m. There 
will be a 3 and 6 mile run. 
Participants can register in advance at RecSports for $5.00 and on the day of the. race for $6~00 ..:; .·.·:.<ryn Jazz Dance-Rec ts will be offering a jazz dance class on Monday & Wednesday night from 6:30 -7:45. There will be an information meet­ing on Monday, October 9 at 
6:30 in Rockne Rm. 219. The fee for the class will be $25.00 and registration will start October 10. In-Line Skatfng Clinie­RecSports willJ)~ offering a clinic on Monday. October? at·· 
5:15 in tho South. Parldng lot of the Joyce Center. The fee is $5.00. Aikido Demonstration­The ND Aikido Club will be hosting a demonstration of this self-defense oriented martial art featuring Shihan Fumio Toyoda. 6th degree black belt. Demo: 5:00 p.m., Friday, September 29th, Rm 301 Rockne. ~w 
• MEN'S TENNIS • VOLLEYBAll 



Longhorns fall 4-3 DePaul 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Sports Writer 

Last spring, the Notre Dame men's tennis team played ranked opponents early and often. And, the Irish lost their share of heartbreaking 4-3 de­cisions to quality competition. 
Not surprisingly, a Texas squad that has been in the top ten for four straight years start­ed the Irish fall season on Friday night. Once again, the match ended 4-3. However. it was an improved Irish squad who won this contest. 
Of the top nine players on last year's team, seven are back this year. including the top five players. 
"We're going to be as deep as anyone in the country," head coach Bob Bayliss said. This is the most experienced team I've ever coached." 
The experienced tandems of Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun, and Ryan Simme and John J. O'Brien return at number one and two doubles, respectively. 
Sprouse and Pun finished strongly to win 8-5, but Bayliss knows the duo that played in the NCAA doubles tournament last year will do better in the future. 
"I don't think they showed what they're capable of show­ing," Bayliss said. 
Simme and O'Brien dropped their opening match 9-8. "They didn't return serve like I'm used to seeing," Bayliss noticed. "Normally they are a really tough out; I think it was the first match jitters." 
The Irish would secure the doubles point, however, as Jakub Pietrowski and Dan Rothschild were winners at number three doubles, 9-7. 
The two teams split the six 
next test for squad 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
Coming ofT a grueling three­match weekend, the eighth­ranked Notre Dame volleyball team travels to DePaul tonight in what is expected to be a quick victory. 
After losing its first match of the season to seventeenth­ranked Texas in a match that lasted nearly three hours, then bouncing back to defeat 15th­ranked Colorado on both Sat­urday and Sunday, the Irish could use an easy victory. 
"I expect it to be a match that we can win," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "Assuming that we go in and 

Afr1t~1111tlii®1111 IFir~~IID.miD.~1111" ~®JPIID.®mlil®~~ ~1111cdl 
~1!llllilllCID ~ 
Announcing the National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of the world outside of Canada and Western Europe. Applicable to most foreign study abroad programs. 
Come to the informational meeting with Professor Jennifer Warlick on Monday evening, October 2, 1995 at 7:00p.m. in room 131 DeBartolo. 
singles matches. At number one singles. Simme dropped a hard fought match 7-6, 6-2. 
"(Simme) had his chances in the first set," Bayliss said. "Martin came up big (to win). Ryan didn't play as well in the second set." 
At number two singles. Sprouse defeated B. J. Stearns, 6-4, 6-2. 
Sprouse won the Arthur Ashe Award for Leadership and Sportsmanship in College Ten­nis in August at the U.S. Open. Bayliss is happy that Sprouse has shown such improvement. 
"He's worked very hard and earned it," Bayliss said. 
Mark Loughrin defeated Pietrowski at number three sin­gles, Jack Brasington beat Pun at number four singles, O'Brien topped Eric Allen at number five singles, and freshman Brian Patterson was victorious over Blake Rue in his first colle­giate match. 
do our part of playing up to our ability." 
The Irish will take a 10-1 record into the match, includ­ing three victories out of the four matches against top-25 teams this season. 
The match against the Blue Demons should give some of the Irish starters a rest, at the same time giving some other players a chance to gain some playing time and experience. 
DePaul posts a meager 3-12 record. However, the Demons defeated Georgetown, a newly established Big East rival and upcoming Irish opponent, in their first match this season. 
A victory over the Blue Demons would be a good step­ping stone for the introduction of the Irish into their new con­ference. After facing Georgetown on Saturday, the team will travel to Philadelphia to take on Villanova, another Big East rival, on Sunday. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Come Visit Scenic 
Columbus, Ohio 

N.D. vs. Ohio State 


Bus Trip 
Date: 30 September 1995 Tickets: $20 for ND, SMC, HC students 
at the LaFortune Info. Desk 
(NO GAME TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE) 
Details: Leave Stepan Center @ 7am, Depart for ND 45 min. after the game 
No Tickets? No Problem! 
The ND Alumni Association Will have 3 Big Screen T\l's In the Parking Lot! 

INTEIU.ATIONAL STVUY PU.OGHAM IN 

--.._____ 

TOLEDO, SPAIN 
XNFORMATXON MEETXNG WXTH PROFESSOR TERESA LEUGERS 
TUESDAY SEI•TEMDER 26, 1995 4:30PM 119 DEBARTOLO 
Rcturnln t~~tudents will be on hand to answe•· ' uestlonJ~. 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL 
STUDY PROGRAM 


SANTIAGO, CHILE INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR SILVIA ROJAS-ANADbN 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 27, 1995 4:30P.M. 201 DEBARTOLO 
Returning Students will be on band to answer questions 
-~-----~­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 26, 1995 


Stanford defense tops Grace Men's IH 
continued from page 16By JAKE COOPER gaining 93 yards on their first Jake Bump's pass was inter­Sports Writer three possessions. cepted. This time Sean Wetgen yard drive which ended with
Unfortunately for the Studs, took the pick and returned it 
four minutes left in the contest,Stanford vs. Grace: this their offense could not capital­down the sidelines 82 yards for 
and on the last play of the
week's marquee game in the ize on their ball movement until a touchdown. The PAT failed, game Zahm's second stringersBlue Division. For Grace, this the very end of the first half, making it a 13-0 game. 
connected on a ·54-yard touch­contest was an opportunity to adding only three points during down strike to run the final to prove that its opening win over their next three drives. Morrissey 15 Keenan 7 
34-0.
Off Campus wasn't a fluke. For "It's going to take some time For the first time in the blue Stanford, it would be their first to get the offense going," division's 1995 season, a game Alumni 19 Fisher 0 chance to stake a claim to the Pollina stated. "We can defi­was dominated by two offenses. 
Alumni posted its secondlnterhall championship. nitely improve our play there. Morrissey, led by junior captain shutout in as many weeks as
Despite the billing of this The penalties are always a Mark Tate's 107 total yards, 
they beat Fisher 19-0. Alumnimatch-up, it proved to be a killer." proved to be the stronger team, captain, Avery Johnson com­game filled with missed oppor­
defeating Keenan 15-7. 
mented, "Our defense did a
tunities. In the end, however, "I think we played great," great job today and our offensethe Stanford talent was too stated Tate. "I was very im­came together when it neededmuch for Grace, as they cap­pressed with our offense. All to."
tured a 6-0 victory. credit goes to our offensive line. 
The Dawgs' offense came
"Defensively, we played very Our quarterback John Polk together with A.J. McGunigul atwell," said Stanford captain really stepped up for us." Polk the helm. On third and 25,Chris Pollina. "We forced four was seven of eight on the day McGunigul hit tailback Mattsacks and three turnovers and for 135 yards and two touch­Mammolenti on a screen to theonly gave up 29 total yards. downs. 
left side. Mammolenti did theOffensively, however, we had Morrissey's offense came into rest of the· work as he made a very poor execution. The fact form on their second drive. 
fantastic 4 7 yard run after thethat we didn't play last week After driving 24 yards in five catch. The PAT failed, makingwas very apparent." Dillon 13 Off-Campus 0 plays, Polk connected with Tate the score 6-0 at the half. 
Pollina got Stanford off to a What has happened to Off­for a 43 yard touchdown recep­The offense connected in therunning start, with 19 yards on Campus? The defending men's tion. 
second half when McGunigulhis first two carries. Then the Interhall champ, coming off a Keenan came into the second found wideout Mark Turner for rust began to show. Three first week loss to Grace, was half with their offense firing on a 40-yard score to put Alumnifalse start penalties over the soundly beaten 13-0 by last all cylinders. Quarterback Chad up by 13 with the clock tickingcourse of the next five snaps year's doormat, Dillon. Chevalier completed a 39 yard away on Fisher.
pushed Stanford back near "We concentrated on defense pass to wide out Matt Heebner, The final score of 19-0 wastheir original line of scrim­all week," said Dillon captain who had five receptions for 115 caused by Alumni defensive mage. Pete Meyer. "Last week we yards. Tim Ferrieck then fin­back Brian Perry scooping up aA quick pass from quar­blew it during the last few min­ished off the drive, pounding fumble returning it for a score.
terback Mike Brown to Doug utes, but I think our improve­the ball in from the one yard Pollina for 22 yards, however, ment definitely showed this line. 
Sorin 0 St. Ed's 0 hrought. Stanford back into week." Morrissey opened their sec­Sorin ended its nine gamescoring range. Five plays later, Dillon began the game with a ond half with another impres­losing streak, as the ScreaminKris Kazlauskas kicked a 41 picture perfect scoring drive, sive drive. After a sack pushed Otters broke into the third col­yard field goal to give Stanford consuming the entire first quar­Morrissey back to midfield, umn of their record. 
a 3-0 lead. ter. A key late hit penalty by 0-Polk once again threw a long 
The Sorin offense, led by 
Men's Power 
Poll 
1 Zahm 2-0-0 1 2 Stanford 1-0-0 2 3 Flanner 1-0-0 3 4 Alumni 2.:0-0 7 5 Morr!,~sey 1-1-0 8 6 Grace 1-1-0 4 7 Carroll 1-1-0 3 8 Dillon 1-0-1 10 9 Off Campus 0-2-0 5 10 Keenan 0-1-1 9 11 Sarin ·o-1-1 12 12 Fisher 0-2-0 11 13 St. Ed's 0-1-1 13 
Player of the Week 
Mark Tate of Morrissey The junior tailback compiled 105 total yards (48 rushing, 57 receiving) and added atouchdown in Morrissey's 15-7 victory over Keenan on Sunday. 

The Grace offense was domi­C moved Dillon to the 14 yard touchdown, this time hitting a was pleased with his team's ef­
quarterback Chris Bryant and
nated from the very beginning. line, where QB Andy Stro hit wide-open Brian Meehan for fort. "We dominated every as­
the backfield combination of
Stanford, led by freshman Mark Greg Kuzma for a touchdown. the 50 yard score. On the en­pect of the game, but they came
Tim Flattery and Seth Roy, be­
Rule's three sacks, held Grace In the second half, Dillon suing point after attempt, a bad up with some big picks and
gan to mount drives, but what­
to -13 yards in the entire first struck a fatal blow to 0-C. The snap forced the holder, Polk, to fumble recoveries, and they
ever scoring chances they had
half. Crime squad had managed to roll out and toss a 3 yard pass kept us out of the endzone
were nullified by key turnovers.
Stanford moved the ball with drive down to Dillon's 20 yard to running back Dave Madden, when they needed to." 
Sorin's captain Pete Slease 
ease against the Grace defense, line, but for the second time, making the score 15-7. 





Win $2000 
Portfolio Management Challenge 
1liE \1.11MAfE SfOCk MAPkEf SIMllA110N AND EDUCA110NAL EXPFPIENCE 
Pick up the information packet and register at the dining halls during dinner tonight and tomorrow night. 
Last chance to register: Friday from 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. in L058 (lower level) in the College of Business Administration Building. 
Entry fee of $15 per person due at time of registration. 
Deadline for registration: Friday,. September 29, 5:00p.m. 
~-­

--l 
I 
I 
Tuesday, September 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 I 

Wo01en's 
continued from page 16 
after three downs had reached Walsh's 18. But the defense dominated again, as Sara Mor­rill caught Walsh's second in­terception of the game at the 12-yard line to ensure a Walsh win, 6-0. 
"I think the defense played an exceptional game," Yudt com­mented. "We have to fix some little things, but after a couple of practices, we're going to be unstoppable." 
Badin 12 Cavanaugh 6 
Badin and Cavanaugh experi­enced some gridlock in the be­ginning of the game, with Ca­vanaugh showing good cover­age and run plays and Badin displaying nice passing. 
On Cavanaugh's second pos­session, Badin got an in­terception at the Cavanaugh 35. With five minutes remaining, Badin passed into the end zone to senior Tina Fuoco to make it 6-0. 
Cavanaugh came back in the second half with an intercep­tion by team captain Katie McCoyd, who returned it 70 yards for a touchdown. Badin answered with a touchdown by Jill Satanek on their next pos­session. 
Cavanaugh rallied to bring 
the ball to the five-yard line, but the ensuing touchdown was ruled no good by the official as a result of an illegal offensive procedure call. Time did not give Cavanaugh another chance, and Badin held on to their lead to win it 12-6. 
Competition remains high as teams work through the regular season in hopes of mak­ing the playoffs, 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen and f0 r tW 0 0 f  
Senior Julie Byrd lines up over center in Lyons' battle with Pangborn.  Byrd was inter-them  the  
cepted by Pangborn's Melissa Bailey in a crucial fourth-quarter drive.  Stadi~m.  


ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY Presentation and Reception Tuesday, September 26, 1995 6:30 -8:00 pm Alumni Room, Morris Inn Allstate~ All students interested in learning more about You're in good hands. the actuarial profession are welcome to attend.  
Tom DeLuca Take a journey with hypnosis... Make a date with your imagination!  
Dates: Wed. Sept. 27 Thurs. Sept. 28 Time: 8:00pm Place: 101 DeBartolo Tickets: $3 at LaFortune Information Desk  


Women's Power 
Poll 
1 Pangborn 2-0-0 2 2 Lewis 1-0-0 . 4 3 Lyons 1-1-0 1 4 P.W. 2-0-0 5 5 P.E. 2-0-0 6 6 Walsh 2-0-0 7 7 Off Campus 1-1-0 3 8 Badin 1-0-0 11 9 Knott 1-1-0 14 10 Howard 0-1-0 9 11 Siegfried 0-2-0 8 12 B.P. 0-2-0 10 13 Cavanaugh 0-2-0 12 14 Farley 0-2-0 13 
Player of the Week Mary Hepburn of P.W. The sophomore defensive lineman recorded aleague high six sacks Tuesday night as the Purple Weasels defeated Farley 18-0 to improve their record to 2-0. 
• MEN'S GOLF 

Irish struggle, recover 
By ANDY CABINESS Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team recovered from a shaky start to take ninth place out of twenty-one teams this week­end at the Wolverine Invitational held at Ann Arbor, Michigan. A team score of 319 on Friday put the Irish in a hole, but a final-round low of 298 raised the Irish from 12th to ninth on Sunday. 
Minnesota edged out Miami of Ohio by two strokes to win the team title. Notre Dame's total of 912 was only 15 strokes behind Minnesota. 
"After one round we were in bad shape," commented junior Brian Donohoe, who was the highest Irish finisher at a tie for fourteenth. "In the second two rounds we played great though." 
Sophomore Brian Weeks said that the weather affected his play on Friday. "It was forty degrees with rain and wind. It was really tough." Weeks fin­ished just one stroke behind Donohoe for the weekend. 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program 

Jerusalem Information Meeting Spring 1996 
Wednesday September 27, 1995 4:30P.M. 143 DeBartolo 



JAZZM N~s 
GRILL & BAR 
525 N. Hill Street • 233-8505 
URAEUS 
presents: 

A FUNKY REGGAE LINCOLN TUESDAY PRIVATE COLLEGE NIGHT PARTY 
•Open 
only to NO, SMC, & HC Students, Staff, & guests 

•Upper 
grill level 18 & over•lower bar level 21 & over 

•Student 
ID & driver's license required for lower level. 

•$5 admission before 11 pm•$6 after 11 pm 

•No 
admittance to anyone under 21 after 11 :30 pm 


•Both dance floors open 'til close 
•Bring 
your pennies for treats because on Tuesdays and Wednesdays we don't accept your paper money at the well! 

•E=MC2+ 
you figure out the admission -those that do have con­cluded that the well Is better than the pitcher! 


Featuring: 

Mouth watering food•party with the band and OJ music For information on giving your own private college party at Jazzman's call 233-8505 Mon-Sat 4pm-3am 
No admittance without Student/Staff ID! 
. 
• 1 I 

-· ~~ --­page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 26, 1995 
• WoMEN's SoccER 


Rutgers and Seton Hall both shut-out victims 
didn't play as well as we could l;;;:=:;=======~~=======~~;==.;;;;;;;(nex;;t;w~R~aridal.l;;;;;.,;Inn;;);;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~~~;;;;;;;;;;;~
have in the first half." 
ALLSHows$4.00ALLDAY 


WITH VALID STUDEN~T;I.D~.-===========h=e=Ve=n==S=======a=n==o:::;p;:e=n=t=o=t==e=p=U==/1=C=.=====t 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assisranr Sporn Ediror 

A disturbing trend seems to be devel­oping in Notre Dame women's soccer games this year. 
Never in the school's history has this occurrence lasted so long. 
It appears that the large rectangular object Irish goalkeeper Jen Renola watches over each game has not been used at all. 
. After last weekend, Rutgers and Seton Hall joined the list of opponents who could not bypass the number zero on the scoreboard as the No. 2 ranked and undefeated Irish added to their record of consecutive shutouts with eight. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame defeated Seton Hall 5-0, while disposing of Rutgers 3-0 on Friday night in a game that featured a downpour, which slowed the Irish style of play. 
"We kept our composure in a difficult situation," head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "I think our maturity showed through in that game." 
The conditions claimed one injury as senior defender Ashley Scharff suffered a sprained ankle and will be out for two to three weeks, according to Petrucelli. 
"As I was taken out, my foot got stuck in the ground and my ankle rolled," Scharff said. 
For Scharff, the injury is ironic as she turned her other ankle in the seventh game last year less than five minutes into the game. For those of you keeping s~ore at home, Rutgers was the seventh game of this year and Scharff was taken out five min­utes into the game. 
Besides the injury, the Irish left Rutgers feeling good. 
"It was a good victory at Rut­gers considering the conditions," assistant coach Carla Chin said. 
"Because of the Rutgers game, 
we were tired at Seton Hall and 
Despite Notre Dame's fatigue,
the Pirates helped add to the number of shutouts by not regis-
ALL STEitEOIIIII ALL CINEMASIIIII 
IUHAIIIIUTIIIEES miY DAY 1
Ill SHOWS SlUTIIII.FOII 6 I'M 
~1it2Jil'!.t i!t':2\!;fJ~ Jj 
"Hackers" (PG13) 
2:00. 4:20. 7:00. 9:20 
THuRsoAYNroHTSruoY 
BREAK 

Creative ~riti1:1g Program 
f 1 h
Deparlme1:1t o E1:1g is Prese1:1ts 





Fred Chappell 
Poet, Novelist & Story Writer  
Reading:  Wednesday, September 27, 7:30p.m.  
Workshop:  Hesburgh Library Lounge Thursday, September 28, 12:30p.m. Notre Dame Room  
A17  LaFortune Student Center t FREE J h b1· I  

tering a shot on goal, as opposed to 43 levied by Notre Dame. Seton Hall at­tempted to counter the Irish offensive attack by packing it in when the Irish controlled the ball with their own ver­sion of the prevent defense. 
Much to their dismay, it only prevent­ed the Pirates from winning. 
Freshman Shannon Boxx opened the scoring by firing a shot past Seton Hall goalie Stacey Nagle off a corner kick by co-captain Cindy Daws, who played her first full game of the year. Before half­time, Holly Manthei blasted an 8-yarder into the back of the net, giving the Irish a two goal lead. 
"We tried to spread out their defense with Holly and Stacia (Masters) on the outside, which opens up space in the middle," forward Michelle McCarthy noted. 
McCarthy proceeded to score two goals in the second half on assists from Rosella Guerrero and Monica Gerardo. Gerardo also registered an unassisted goal. 
"We started off slow, but played better in the second half," Guerrero said. 
"It was good to see us come out with the intensity we did in the second half even though the game was already won," McCarthy added. 
Petrucelli summed up the Seton Hall attack, or lack there of, best. 
"They had no desire to move for­ward," Petrucelli commented. "They were trying to see how many goals they could keep us from scoring." 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Freshman Monica Gerardo had a productive game against Rutgers, registering a goal and 
an assist against the Scarlet Knights. 
The game against Rutgers posed more of a challenge as the soggy cpnditions forced the Irish out of their game. 
"We couldn't play the possessive style of ball we're use to," Chin said. "We were unable to utilize Michelle and Cindy in the middle, but we did well get­ting up and down the field. We also had to play more long balls." 
McCarthy scored her first goal of the weekend three minutes into the game on an assist from Daws. The senior for-
r---------------------------, 
Clilnese ·American 1 

Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 1\.ulhentic Szechuan, f.J~.;/111.-~...-M:ndarin & Hunan Cuisir.: 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Votcd.Be~~ Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Ori~ntal Resta~rant-' 
in Michiana by-·' .~ 130 Dixie Way N., South Beod 
Midziana NolyZ
.. 
ward beat Rutgers netminder Susan Curtis on the far post. Manthei also tal­lied a goal as she put in a header on a cross from Jean McGregor in the second half, which also featured a Gerardo goal on an assist from Amy Van Laecke. 
Rutgers managed only four shots, but did have a viable chance following the first Irish goal and shanked it. 
"They didn't create much," Guerrero said. "They tried to capitalize on our mistakes." 


Tuesday, September 26, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
I 1-\AvE Soc~ fl. 1:::1~<-A'T H•m·•~· Ar<o W"AT 
FA~<TII~TIC FitlENOS ... 

DILBERT 
I'f'\ PROf'\OTING YOU TO TEA/"\ LEADEfl.. 
DO I GET A RAISE.? 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 21 Slight 30 Turndowns
1 The "D" of C. D. 31 Levin and 
5 Fog Gershwin. 
9 Heavenly 32 Actor Warren instruments 35 Part of the 14 Worldwide: 
Dept of

Abbr. 
Transportation 15 Not at port 
38"-­16 Be a bad winner Miserables" 17 Analysis of 39 Gary Larson components cartoon, with 19 Arizona State 
"The" University site 41 Scuba tank 20 Like pant legs 
supply 42 6-1, 5-7 or 6-4,21 Swelled head e.g.

23 Hitchcock's 43 Perfection
"--Window" 44 Noncom: Abbr. 
24 Cooked to perfection 45 Bat wood 
46 Pizza divisions 

25 1965 Petula Clark hit 49 Row house 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
r=-t'=""t.:':-t::-1 11 Juliet's beau r.-t:;-,=-t::-1 12 Custard apple 13 Radio star 
Howard 18 Vegas game 22 Possessed 26 On the­

(precisely) 27 Aches 28 Complimentary 
DEADLINE 
OCTOBER 4 
IH VOLLEYBALL-MEN & WOMEN CAMPUS CO-REC BASKETBALL CAMPUS BADMINTON SINGLES 
Call for Captain's Meeting Information 
Budgeting your time. energy and money becomes easier. 
I TI-IOUGHT

TI-\E.RE'S NO El\TRA 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone 's suggestions help you 
THAT'S 
All THE GOOD

i"\ONE.Y 1 IUS\ EXTRA 
ANOTHER 
make a small decision. Anistic and ~E:,PONSIBILI\Y. ITS 
PEOPLE. LEAVE
~ 

musical pursuits prove highly enjoy­
WA'< TO 
able. Quick thinking lets you tum an
fOR BETTER

\-\OW WE RECOGNIZE. 
~ 

imaginative concept into a practical
~ECOGNilE.
J; 
CO/"\PA.NIES 

venture. Flash that winning smile
OUR BEST PEOPLE. 
54 BBC nickname, with "the" 55 Harrow rival 56 Something to hail 57 Deprive of food 60 Play the guitar &2 ---Act (1862 
measure) 64 Inventor Nikola 65 Sen. Simpson 
66 String up 67 "Give it--!" &a Minstrel songs &9----Ball 
(arcade game) 
DOWN 

1 Claim, informally 2 Memo words 3Firm 4 Hubbubs 5 Sportscaster John 6 Equal: Prefix 7Hemmed a Argentina 9 Elev. 10 Sirens 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1995 
(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of binh, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Aligning yourself with an unconven­tional person or project could bring fresh career gains. Your financial situ­ation shows steady improvement. A scholarship or gmnt is likely for some­one who has a reputation for working well with others. A young person begins to show some ambition. Offer gentle guidance, but do nol try to die­late terms. A neighbor helps you get a better handle on community affairs. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: legendary composer George Gershwin. actress Linda
'{O'J BET.' WI-\E~ 

Hamilton, singer Olivia Newton­
DQ n\'2< Pf>..S5 0\J\ 

John, physical fitness expert Jack 11\E G(>.SOUI'-IE? 
LaLanne. ARIES (March 21-April 19):
I 

Your powers of persuasion are at a peak. Go after what you want! The 

next three days comprise a fonunate period for creative projects and financial investments. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): New and improved work habits help you juggle a busy schedule. You are asked to choose between two excel­lent ideas. Sign papers related 10 home improvements or travel. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Sharing a fun experience or adding 
artistic touches to your home makes this a pleasant day. At work, avoid 
SCOIT ADAMS 
biting off more than you can chew. 
\1-\(1"\ 

when requesting assistance! 
) 


LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may have to abandon cenain activi­ties or hopes which have proven to be impmctical. Avoid acting wishy­washy. Once you have made up your mind, move swiftly. Keep detailed records for tax purposes.
I( 

• OF INTEREST 
''i 
·-Obtairdng career-related summer experience wiD 
position you for finding a permanent job. Attend this 
~vening's presentation, "Sail Into Summer...With an 
Jnternshlp" tor suggestions on resources and techw 
niqu~ used to research, pursue, and obtain a reward­
ing summer work experience. This workshop will be 
fr01ll1•& p.m,; in the Notre Dame room in LaFortune 
·. and is presented by Career and Placement Services. A food service training workshop will be held in 
•LaFortune's Montgomery Theater today at 4:00p.m. If you,r ~luh or organization has a football concession $tand or. will be having a function which you will be obtaining food from someone other than food services (wit.Q.their approval), please have a memberor mem­bers of your group a_ttend one of the training sessions. "Humanitarian Action by Nongovernmental Organi­·zation.s... a lecture given by Associate Director Thomas We~w;!!Srown University will be today at 4:15 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. lff~tlv• Interviewing: this workshop wUl help stu­dents ltla.rket their skills to meet the employer's needs. coll.t(;lnfwill focus on interview preparation and process, understanding what qualities employers seek in·candidates, types of questions asked, responding to .questions confidence, non-verbal behavior. and gener­
-a1 do's and don'ts. It will be today from 6:30-8:00 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune. 
29 Double-timed 44 Scabbards 52Taj­

33 Crazy --loon 45 Voids 53 African virus 47 "Ghosts" writer 
•MENU
34 Hacienda 58 Barn topper
and kin roofing material 

59 TV's "The­
w.:Notre'Nortn Dame
48 Understands 

· ·,;,,\'35 Basketball of Night"
49 Seed coveroffense 

&1 Where pins are 
Shrimp Creole
50 Valuable fur 
36 Temperature made 

Vegetable Calzone
51 For better or for 
extreme 

63 Flowering time 
. Scal~qped Pota;t.oes 
·')lie·
37--and 
sciences 

'Saint Mary's
Get answers to any three clues 
39 Bass, for one 

;n';tw(),(;heese Quesadill48
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
: 'lletb Browned Potatoes
40 Type of 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

'' Mixe4Vegeta.btes
committee 



P~~~ 
•·•·.·.· !~:.:_

"-I---~I···-~I···III.IRI•···•·~~-·,•1~1•·,•,u·:.·::.··· ··I•· .. .... ·_.-_....l .......l·•iil••·-~iii:::-~····•·•1··-•-·-•.·-1 ...-~•-•.-.·.·_..E.··•1····--•-·l•·.,·.·.'i·-··_.'.,·1·•· ··.·.. ·.·:.·•·]·',. 

r-~~~~~ 
•

WE NEED OFFICIALS FOR BASKETBALL 
631-6100 Next Deadline -Nov. 1 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do not let minor problems snowball into a major disaster. You have a real knack for handling money mat­ters. Follow conservative guidelines to avoid dissipating your resources. Romance heats up when you con­fide a secret. 
LIBRA (Sept.23-0ct. 22): A busy day lies ahead -full of nego­tiations. conferences and discus­sions. Your energy may ebb and now unpredictably. Remember your priorities. Making too many demands on your loved ones will create resentment. Lighten up. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The next few days look especially hectic. Close attention 10 detail is essential. Financially, you may be better off than you think. Business, romance and the ans enjoy beneficial influences. Organize your free time better. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Romantic and professional ties are blessed today. Rejoice over a stroke of good luck! Two heads are better than one when trying to solve a mystery. A creative enterprise gathers steam. Plan a pleasure trip. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Express your literdl)' or anistic inter­ests through your home's decor. Co­workers are in a cooperative mood. A nice surprise may be featured this afternoon. Evening hours look great for both romance and socializing. Heed your mate's wishes. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Take a chance on a clever idea. Originality counts big with higher­ups. Avoid dealing with fly-by-night companies. A business with a proven track record is a better bet. Keep promises to loved ones. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A congenial atmosphere at work con­tributes to job satisfaction. You and your associates come up with a good idea over lunch. Postpone making major financial or romantic deci­sions. By tomorrow you could change your mind! 
South Chicken FajitasMushroom Quiche Mexican Rice 
.. 







SPORTS 
page 16 
• INTERHALL fOOTBAlL 

Top teams collide early 
Pangborn unseats Lyons, 7-6 
By KRISTIN TRABUCCO Sports Writer 
Pangborn-Lyons pitted the two top-ranked teams against 

.,. each other in a first-place showdown. Pangborn worked the ball steadily on their first possession. A third down play by Trish Sorenson made it frrst down and short. After Lyons held them for three downs, Sorenson scored the touchdown and quarter­back MT Kraft completed the pass to the tailback for the extra point. The defenses held for the rest of the half. In the second half, Pangborn 
showed nice run-pitch-run ball movement, but were kept from scoring. After consistent run and pass plays, Kerry Callahan caught a touchdown pass to put Lyons on the scoreboard. The extra point was no good, keep­ing Pangborn in the lead, 7-6. But on the ensuing drive, Pangborn's second play was in­tercepted, giving Lyons a chance to score and take the lead. 
With 1:19 left in the game, Lyons was held to a fourth down at their own 22-yard line. A time-out was called, and the Lyons coaches called for "confi­dence" from their offense. Confidence was not enough; when the game resumed, Pangborn's Melissa Bailey intercepted the pass and extin­guished Lyons' hope for a score. 
Even though their win solidi­fied their number one position, Pangborn has not become over­confident. 
Bailey said, "Just because we beat Lyons, that doesn't mean the rest of the games will be easy." 
Walsh 6 Breen-Phillips 0 
Both Walsh and BP were scoreless in the first half. Each team's defense showed good coverage on both run and pass plays. 
In the second half, the de­fenses went at it again. Walsh forced BP to punt on their first two possessions, and BP in turn stopped Walsh on a fourth down quarterback draw. 
On Walsh's second posses­sion, a fourth down incomplete pass made it BP's ball. How­ever, on BP's first play, Walsh's Kristin Yudt intercepted the pass and ran it back for a touchdown. BP took the punt at their own 30-yard line, and 
see WOMEN'S I page 13 


The Observer/Brent T adsen 
Quarterback Chris Orr hands off to fullback Matt Bundick in Zahm's manhandling of Carroll on Sunday. 
Bundick scored two touchdowns on the afternoon. 

Top-rated Zahm whips Carroll 
ByJOECAVATO Sports Writer 
Going into Sunday's Interhall action, the premier matchup sMmed to 'be No:l Zahm squar­ing off against then No. 3 Carroll. This was to be a matchup of Carroll's potent of­fense, lead by quarterback Tim Nelson and a solid backfield consisting of tailback Jeff Kloska and fullback Joe Schen­ner, against the "Red Swarm" defense of Zahm, anchored by last week's Player of the Week Jake Schaller. But it was the Zahm offense which dominated the action on the way to a 34-0 romping. 

Zahm wasted no time as they opened with a 65-yard scoring drive. The key play was when Zahm quarterback Chris Orr hooked up with fullback Matt Bundick for a 26-yard pickup. Zahm continued to march down the field, and nine plays later Bundick muscled it in from the five for the score. 
On Carroll's initial drive the "Red Swarm" lived up to their name as they stifled the option combination of Nelson, Kloska, and Schenner. After one first down, the Zahm defense tight­ened up and forced a punt. 
On their second possesion, Zahm threw in their little secret weapon, as tailback Dan Glennon scampered (hrough the Carroll defense for 25 yards. Then Orr hit standout freshman wideout/defensive back Mike Bailley for a 35-yard strike to run the score to 14-0. On the day, Bailley had two touchdowns and blanketed the Carrol receivers. 
"I was really impressed with him, you never know what you have with a freshman but he certainly proved that he is ca­pable of big plays," Bundick said. On Zahm's last posses­sion of the frrst half, Orr threw one up for Bailley in the end­zone, and the freshman came up with a 57 -yard touchdown to make the score 21-0 at the break. 
The Carroll offense could not sustain a drive as Schaller and company came up with big plays time and time again. 
Carroll captain Bob Fincutter commented, "Zahm is a much quicker team, and they took advantage of their strengths today." 
Zahm's fourth score came courtersy of Bundick, who took it in from three yards out for his second score of the game. Bundick's run capped a 62­
see MEN'S IH/ page 12 
The Observer/Brent T adsen Pangborn quarterback MT Kraft led her squad to a close win against defending champion Lyons Hall. 

Edwards carries emotion to OSU 
By MIKE NORBUT his players take a test about Sports Ediror the USC tradition. But it would 
be a little harder to do that, 

Marc Edwards knows a lot unless you go back to 1936. about momentum. The Irish and Buckeyes 
It's what got him into the have gone head-to-head just end zone on a two-point con-twice, in 1935-36. Notre Dame version run Saturday after won both games. getting hit at the 2-yard line But Holtz can tell from by Texas linebacker Kyle experience. He spent quite a Richardson. bit of time in Ohio Stadium 
It's what helped him get to earlier in his career. the end zone on a 27-yard, "Being on a great staff and fourth quarter part of Ohio 
~ua~· ~~:,reb~~ 1j g,g,s I;RlSH; ~~~te, w~~k~~~ 
refused to go down. 
And it's what the Irish are counting on to get past Ohio State. 
"This is huge," Edwards .. ~A li li
F'A··...A.,_

said following '-''"' 
Notre Dame's ' w ··" 55-27 win over Texas. "The last couple of weeks, we've really been getting going. We've been doing the little things to do to win." The little things include high levels of emotion, which has enabled the Irish to recover from the opening season loss to Northwestern and score three big victories in a row. And it probably doesn't hurt to have Lou Holtz back. Not only for confidence's sake, but also to give a little lesson on the meaning of Saturday's game with the Buckeyes. "I don't think our players will approach the Ohio State game any different than we're playing an outstanding foot­ball team," Holtz said. "But I think by Saturday I'd like to have the players understand the significance of the game." Notre Dame's coach makes 
Hayes and being in your home state was a very special thing," Holtz s a i d "Everything about it you 
r e m e m b e r 
IIJ!JA!t\~'-very, very 
·' · , · . , vividly." 
Including the last time he was in the press box as a member of the Buckeye staff. 
"The last time I was in the press box at Ohio Stadium was in 1968," the coach said. "We beat Michigan 50-14 in the last game of the regular season, and after the last touchdown we went for two. After the game I asked Coach Hayes why he went for two and he said, 'Because they wouldn't l~t me go for ~hree<" 
Holtz will once agam be m the Ohio Stadium press box on Saturday, calling the shots for the Irish rather than question­ing the ones by Hayes. 
Hayes, who coached the Buckeyes from 1951-78, also had Navy head coach George Chaump, Indiana head coach Bill Mallory and former Col­or ado State coach Earl Bruce on his staff along with Holtz. 


Football Women's Soccer 
• Women's soccer continues shut-outs 
at Ohio State 

at Cincinnati September 29, 7:00 p.m. 
see page 14
September 30, 2:30 EST 

at Ohio State October l, 2:00 p.m. 
Volleyball 

Cross Country 
at DePaul September 26, 7:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame Invitational, 
• Men's tennis team edges Longhorns 
at Georgetown September 30, 3:00p.m. 
October 6, T.B.A. 
at Villanova October 1, 2:00 p.m. 
see page 11

SMC Sports
Men's Soccer 

Soccer vs. Lake Forest September 26, 
• Volleyball prepares for DePaul 

vs. Loyola Marymounc September 28, 
4:00p.m.
7:30p.m. 
see page 11 









