
Friday, November 10, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 54 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• fACULTY SENATE 
Malloy: Future looks bright for ND programs 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE and 
Assistant News Editor 
RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
University President Father Edward Malloy addressed the Faculty Senate Wednesday night, and a number of issues topped his discussion. 
Malloy responded to a number of questions concerning the progress of the Colloquy, the selection of the Provost, financial aid, staff salaries, and graduate education that were submitted to him by the Senate prior to the meeting. 
In his opening remarks to this discussion, Malloy said, "There are reasons to be opti­mistic in looking toward our future." 
Although he pointed out a number of these nmsons for optimism. Malloy described the laek of linanr.ial aid as a significant problem. "Financial aid looms very, very large to me," he said. "We hope to be able to build our financial aid resources. We have a dual strat­HJ..'Y to continue as aggressively as we can to solicit funds." 
Malloy mentioned tuition increases as another one of the main financial issues that the University must confront 
"We have to try to reduce them as much as possible," he said. 
Northwestern University, Malloy noted, has a lower tuition than does Notre Dame, and it may serve as a role model for Notre Dame bncause it is run in a "heallhy" way. 
"If we're going to be healthy and competi­tive. we have to struggle to bring our tuition increases down as much as possible," he said, adding that this will be "a daunting task." 
According to Malloy, the fundraising cam­paign, which may help to Jessen increases in tuition. is "well under way" and will be annourH:ed in the Spring of 1997. 
see FACULTY I page 4 
Last summer, Notre Dame student Jenny Richtsmeier assisted Professor Susan Sheridan in the unearthing of ancient bones in Israel as part of the Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program. The remains were st\Jdied for information on the cultural profile of the Byzantine civilization. The program was founded by Sheridan to provide undergrad­uates with experience in the anthropological field of study. 
Photos provided by Jenny Richtsmeier

••(, 

Not just dry bones 
Research program allows ND student to spend summer in Israel studying the remains of a Byzantine culture 
By DAVE PREISSLER tury population. looking for News Writer answers to many questions: Who Jived there? Did they eat "--''----------'--' 
J
enny Richtsmeier, a biol­well? Were they healthy? said. ogy/anthropology major, got to They found that 97 percent of the Sheridan has found the Un­see a lot of history this past bones they unearthed were male dergraduate Research Opportunity summer as she traveled to Israel with an unusually high quantity of Program (UROP), which partially with Susan Sheridan, assistant pro­them being children. funded the program, not only helpful fessor of anthropology, to study the "We started pulling the remains for the professors leading th~ pro­remains of an ancient group of out, and they were just enormous! jects, but also important for the stu­Byzantine monks. Their mission: to They weren't tall. They were just dents. She believes that construct a biocultural protile of the eating well. Even their teeth were undergraduate students should former inhabitants. beautiful -white, with no cavities. begin field research early in their 
The two researchers wanted to It doesn't look like they were even examine the health of this fifth cen-sick when they were kids," Sheridan see BONES I page 8 



Vitale provides scholarship 
Fund to benefit those in 'spirit organizations' 
By KAREN BELL 
News Writer 
Tlwy'n1 out tlwrn practicing c:onw rain, hail or shine; they're dmlieated. talentnd and integral to the suceess of Notre Dame sports-but they're not our ath­letns. 
They are tlw members of our "spirit organizations:" the marching band. the eheerlead­nrs. t/111 Irish Guard, the pom­pom squad and even the l.11preehaun. Now, thanks to sportscaster and Notre Dame parent Diek Vitale, some of them will have a little help in paying for school. 
Vitalfl has established an en­dowed academic scholarship at the University, to be known as the Dick Vitale Family Spirit Scholarship. 
Vitale, a college basketball analyst for ABC Sports and ESPN, is funding the scholar­ship to assist students with financial need who are mem­bers of such spirit boosting organizations. 
The scholarship, Vitale said, is for those who worked above the norm-he noted the hours of practice that went into the bands and cheerleading. 

He felt these groups had as much of a financial need as the recipients of sports scholar­ships. 
Vitale feels fortunate that the job he loves gives him the op­portunity to travel across Amer­ica and visit many colleges. However, he is still adamant that Notre Dame has something unique. 
Having not missed a home football game in the last six years, Vitale has first hand ex­perience of the Notre Dame Spirit and ''the Lady of the Dome that shines brightly -like a beacon for the values" he be­lieves are intrinsic to the school and himself. 
see VITALE I page 4 
Class allows students to play stock market 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
News Writer 

Dreams are coming true for senior finance majors who have found that they can invest in stocks without paying a dime. A new course offered by the College of Business Admnistra­tion will allow students to invest real money, previously handled by the Student Investment Club, in real stocks 
"What makes this so unique is that not only are students bidding in the market, but are now also learning how to man­age their investments," said Scott Malpass. Notre Dame's chief investment officer and assistant professor of finance. 
The Applied Investment Management team-taught course provides students with the opportunity to blend the theory of investment with the practical demands of hands-on portfolio management. 
The class seemed to "evolve over time," as Malpass and his teaching compatriots, Frank Reilly, the Hank Professor of Business Administration, John Affleck-Graves, associate pro­fessor of finance. and Mark Yusko. the University's assis­tant investment officer, began to use their experiences with the Student Investment Club as a starting point to construct their theoretical as well as practical course. 
"We sat in on a similar class at Ohio State and found their management of endowment money to be very insightful," said Malpass. 
The course's academic as­pects include an understanding of the proeess of establishing and implementing a portfolio strategy, a study of the mechanics of trading. and knowledge of current theories of market microstructure. 
"Due to the amount of discus­sion and training involved, this fall's class could be open to only twenty-four senior finance majors. Each candidate had to apply and write an essay to be considered. The next spring and summer semesters will be open to graduate MBA's," said Malpass. 
The course began this fall by establishing portfolio manage­ment policies and objectives 
see STOCKS I page 4 page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, November 10, 1995 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 

Christianity and military 

do coexist 
Tomorrow the United -------­States of America cele-Brandon Williams brates Veterans Day. Assistant Viewpoint Tomorrow we pay trib-Editor ute to those men and women who have fought and died for the ideals that our coun­try is built upon. Tomorrow we celebrate those individuals who have fought around the world for the values that bind together the patchwork quilt that is America. In short. on this day we celebrate our armed forces. 
This Veterans Day is surrounded by a somewhat unique atmosphere. Here at Notre Dame, home to one of the best ROTC pro­grams in the nation. there is a group called Peacenet agitating for its demise. This is a group with some admirable ideals, from non­violence to unity. 
The reason behind Peacenet's antagonism towards ROTC's "military presence" on cam­pus is their view of Catholicism. The group's leader has been quoted as saying "the bond­ing between student and militarism contra­dicts the Catholic witness and mission of this University. Christ preaches forgiveness, com­passion, and love. We see the ROTC as an adjunct of this University. This high level relationship shows a true dedication to the Pentagon." This seems to be a pretty strong statement considering the large number of Catholic individuals here who choose to become reserve officers. 
Yes, Christ did teach "forgiveness, compas­sion, and love." However, the members of Peacenet need to take a quick reality check. No matter how forgiving, compassionate and loving we are, there will always be Hitlers, Stalins, and Saddam Husseins who forgive none, have compassion for none, and love only themselves. As long as men like this are present, there will always be the threat of war. Why? Because those of us who believe in those Christian values will not stand for a tyrants disregard for them. War is perhaps the most horrid reality that mankind must face. 
Unfortunately, sometimes the only way to protect good is to fight for it. It is then that people like those in NO-ROTC are willing to put their lives on the line for that which is right and for the well being of their neighbor. It is because of men and women like this that we don't now live among the crimson hatred of the swastika in a Nazi America. 
Further, there are few better places in this country to provide such leadership than Notre Dame. The ethics and morality instilled in a student here are exactly what is needed in the military. If all Christians, who believe in those same Christian principles, are not to be soldiers. who will be left to stop those who make it their mission to destroy those principles? Who will be there to stop the devastating holocausts. purges and ethnic cleansings? Our greatest generals, from Eisenhower to Powell, have voiced their extreme distaste for war. It is people like them, whose sense of ethics make love of bloodshed impossible, that are needed to fight when the fight is right. 
To sum things up, perhaps America has not always been right. but on this Veterans Day I ask that all students here remember the vet­erans of past wars and give a special glance of appreciation to our ROTC students-not for militarism or the Pentagon, but because of a willingness to fight and die for those sacred Christian tenets that the members of Peacenet enjoy . 
. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Viewpoint Jamie Heisler Mike O'Hara Tom Moran Production 
Spons Belle Bautista Andy Cabineess David Diaz Graphics Lab Tech Tom Roland Mike Ruma 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• Wm·li.J.l AT A GLANCE 
U.S. running out of properly sized astronauts 

CAPE CANAVERAL. Fla. 
Too tall. too small, too heavy. too chesty -one by one, America's astronauts are dropping out of the international space scene. 
They may have the right stuff. but they're the wrong size. 
In the last month, two NASA astronauts have been dis­qualified from training for long stays aboard the Russian space station Mir. One was too tall, the other 1 1/2 inches too short. 
It gets worse. After three years of joint space cooperation. NASA has just learned that only about half of its 88 astronauts can meet rigid Russian size requirements for Soyuz spacecraft. the cramped ships that ferry cosmonauts aloft and also serve as Mir's emergency escape craft. 
Astronauts must be 5 feet 4 1/2 inches to 6 feet tall. with seated height no more than 37 inches; weigh no more than 187 pounds; and, for Soyuz spacesuits, have chests no smaller than 38 inches and no larger than 44 inches. 
Of the currently qualified astronauts, up to two-thirds are training specifically for space shuttle flights and are thus out of the running for Mir duty. Not all of the remaining 15 or so are eager to move to Russia for the required year of training then spend a minimum four months aboard the aging space station. 
"Now you take who fits, and who's available, and who wants to go that's available, and who can speak Russian and do all this, and the list is very short," says David Leestma, director of NASA's flight crew operations. 
The Soyuz capsules pose a potentially more troublesome problem for the future. When the planned international space station starts taking in permanent residents. perhaps in just 2 1/2 years, the capsules will not only see duty as "lifeboats" but will also carry all crews up and back in the first few years of its existence. 
Translation: NASA may not have enough Russian-speaking, ideally sized astronauts for its desired international space sta­tion slots over the next five years. 
Calvin and Hobbes calling it quits 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. Calvin and Hobbes, the terrible tyke 
fiK 
and his sidekick tiger, will be retired . _ from the funny pages on Dec. 31. In a 
\ letter to newspaper editors Thursday, ~1 /::-:;.-..-.. cartoonist Bill Watterson said the deci-~ , Qj sion to end the strip was not a recent · ? or easy decision. "I believe I've done 1 ~ what I can do within the constraints of daily deadlines and small panels," Watterson, 38, said in the letter. "I am eager to work at a more thoughtful pace, with fewer artistic com­promises." In his letter. Watterson said he had not decided on what he will do next. Universal Press does not know if Watterson will produce new books or other materials. The reclusive cartoonist has refused to be interviewed and will not reveal where he lives. 

Cop foils donut shop robber 
PHILADELPHIA 
A cop knew something was up when an unfamiliar waitress fumbled behind the counter and handed him the wrong-size coffee cup, half full, during his nightly dough­nut shop stop. "I figured this person doesn't work there," Sgt. Michael Regan said Wednesday. Lingering in the parking lot, he watched her walk into a back room and return with two employees. "I saw her make one of them open the register. and when he did that she scooped up the money," Regan said. That's when he called for backup. The woman spotted his cruiser and climbed through the takeout window. After a chase across a busy road, along a ditch, over a fence and onto the grounds of a country club, he lost her in the dark. Another officer and his dog managed to track her down. Ella Harold, 26, was charged with robbery, accused of taking about $100 from the store the night before. 

Boy Scouts uphold ban on gays 
TRENTON, N.J. 
A state judge, citing biblical evidence that homosexual­
ity is immoral, upheld the Boy Scouts' ban on gays. 
Superior Court Judge Patrick McGann found that the 
Scouts did not violate state laws when they expelled 
assistant scoutmaster James Dale in 1990 after learning 
he is gay. The judge said the Boy Scouts is a private 
organization and has a constitutional right to choose its 
members. He cited the Bible: "Sodomy is derived from 
the city, Sodom, which, with the nearby city of 
Gomorrah, was destroyed by fire and brimstone rained 
down by the Lord because of the sexual depravity (active 
homosexuality) of their inhabitants," he wrote. James 
Dale is now a fuod-raiser for a New York City drug rehab 
center. "To think that someone as qualified as myself, 
an exemplary Scout, can't be an assistant Scoutmaster 
when adults are needed is ridiculous," he said. 

Senate to examine NFL team moves 
WASHINGTON 
National Football League representatives will be sum­
moned to Capitol Hill to discuss the Cleveland Browns' 
pending move to Baltimore and other franchise moves, a 
lawmaker announced Thursday. A Senate subcommittee 
has scheduled a hearing to look into questions being 
raised by unhappy Ohioans who object to Browns deal. 
"It's important that Congress take a close look at the cur­
rent state of franchise relocation," Sen. Mike DeWine, R­
Ohio, said. "Significant tax dollars are invested for the 
benefits of sports teams. And unfortunately, when deci­
sions are made for teams to leave, taxpayers are left 
holding the bag." Sen. John Glenn, D-Ohio, plans to 
introduce a "Fans Rights Act" which will require six 
months' notice before any team relocates. Glenn said his 
bill will give communities, fans and the league a greater 
say in determining whether franchises remain or move. 



Friday, Nov. 10 
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 10. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
4 OHIO llndianapoli3 57° I ' '''' 
ILL. 
• 


~ 
~ '''' ' 
-

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. Presaure ~ ~ ,.--£\
H L B &::J !}]] 0 ~ § ~ L....! C-\ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Via Auocsa/IJO PrtNil>
KY. 

Atlanta 64 56 Dallas 66 46 New Orleans 75 65 Baltimore 66 48 Denver 48 16 NewYorl< 63 50 Boston 63 44 Los Angeles 80 56 Philadelphia 63 43

~,~,~~~~ (f ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 33 31 Miami 84 73 Phoenix 80 54 Via Associated Press GmphicsNet C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Columbus 51 50 Minneapolis 29 14 St. Louis 38 35 

Friday, November 10, 1995 


Native American Hill to perform on campus 
Special 10 The Observer 
Native American comedian Charlie Hill will perform on Nov. 11 at 8 p.m. in the l-Ies­burgh Library auditorium. 
An Oneida Indian from Wisconsin, Hill worked as a disc jockey, studied acting and was a member of a Wisconsin theatre group before becoming nationally famous as a per­former on the Hichard Pryor show. 
!Jis first album, "Born Again Savage," was· recently released by lleadband Productions. 

He now appears on numer­ous late night television pro­grams, including Jay Leno's Tonight Show and David Letterman's Late Night. 
He also has a role in an upcoming episode of the televi­sion show Roseanne. 
The Native American Student Association of Notre Dame is sponsoring the performance as part of Native American Awareness Month. 
Tickets. to be sold at the door, are $3 for students and $5 for all others. 


EARNC Hby DONATING 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

You could earn: 
Women of "Steel"

$30°0after your first plasma donation! 
Actresses perform the final scene in last night's production of the play "Steel Magnolias, • which took place at Saint Mary's. See page 13 for story. 
$15°0 if you donate alone (first visit) +$ 5°0 if you show college I.D. (first visit) 



ROTC ceremony honors vets 
Special lo The Observer

+$1 000 per person if you recru~ someone and they donate 
The Army, Navy, and Air
$30°0 TOTAL! 
Force ROTC units of the Uni­versity of Notre Dame will con­
Help Us Save Lives 
duct their annual Veterans Day Retreat Ceremony in honor of
Must be 18 years old; proof of current 
fallen comrades today from 
address with photo I.D. 

4:30-5:15 p.m. at the campus's 
COME TO: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 

HOURS:  flag pole north of the Law School.  
M-F:  9-6  
SAT:  8-5  Speaking will be Maj. Gen. James M. Lyle, commanding  
234-6010  general of the U.S. Army Cadet  

Command at Fort Monroe, Va. Lyle's military career has in-eluded two tours of Vietnam as well as service in Germany and military postings throughout the U.S. 
He has taught military sci­ence at Lehigh University and was director of training in the Office of the Deputy Chief of Staff for Operations and Plans in Washington, D.C. 
Lyle's decorations include the Army Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Meritorious Service Medal, Air Medal, Joint Services Commendation Medal, Army Commendation Medal, Army Achievement Medal, com­bat infantryman's badge and parachutist's badge. 
Lyle earned his bachelor's degree in physical education from the College of William and Mary and his master's degree in educational administration from Lehigh University. 
His military education includes the Armor Officer Basic and Advanced courses, the Army Command and General Staff College, and the Naval War College. He is a graduate of Basic Airborne training. 
4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 



r----------,
$5 DEAL
I I 
Any Large I4" Pizza Only $5 
I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price Call /-6902
I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
I 1-----------,.J I$10 DEAL 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas
I I
and a 2-/iter Coke Product Only $10 Call /-6902
I __________...I 
L 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 I 


r----------,
I 
$4 DEAL

I I 
Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 

I I
Now, That's a Deal! Call1-6902

I -1I COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
Lr---------­
I DOUBLE DEAL

I I 
You get2 Large 14" 1 item 

I I
Pizzas for Only $9 Call1-6902

I __________...I 
L 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 I 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------~~------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 
Describing the progress made in terms of the Colloquy, Malloy mentioned new campus buildings and his goals for study abroad programs. 
According to "peer compara­tive indicators." Malloy said, "we knew we had to take some dramatic action" with the Uni­versity libraries. 
He called the library holdings "unimpressive," but said that it is "a sign of improvement" that 15 new endowed library collec­tions were added to the Res­burgh Library and the Law Li­brary. 
As "a second level of need," Malloy addressed the necessity of office space on campus. 
"The new plan to create more library and office space appears to be working," he said, due in part to the conver­sion of Flanner Hall. 
However, there are still "lin­gering questions about shelving and book preservation," he said. "We must try as shrewdly as possible to build. it into our operating budget to avoid hav­ing to build a new library facili­ty." Needs such as these are difficult to present to benefac­tors, Malloy said. 
Describing the development of other campus structures, Malloy said that the new book­store will be comparable to the Barnes and Noble on Grape Road. Its construction will begin in the spring of 1997. 

Vitale 
continued from page I 
The letter he received from Jamie Sotis (the Fighting Irish Leprechaun, and the first recipient of the scholarship) "was very touching and just to hear of the happiness it brought to Jamie and his fami­ly was worth a million dollars." 
Vitale was the head coach of 
Malloy noted an increase in certain faculty and staff posi­tions. Twelve new faculty spots have opened up in the Univer­sity, and most are in the College of Arts and Letters. 
Malloy said there have been significant increases in the staff at the Office of University Computing and the Development Office, and this may be due to "the aggressive position" the University has taken on improving computing at the University. 
Expressing his goals for the Study Abroad Program, Malloy stated his interest in having all students graduate with the abil­ity to speak "at least" two lan­guages. 
Although the University is "far from" this goal right now, he said, it is "an exciting possi­bility." Malloy would also like to double the number of students who go abroad because this would expand the "opportunity for service," he said. 
Malloy also described goals that are continually being striv­en for in terms of salaries for members of the Notre Dame staff. 
Among these goals are the University's ability to pay fair wages and benefits, maintain the educational benefits for staff members' children, and have safe working conditions, opportunity for advancement, and long-term job security. 
"We are the largest employer in our community," Malloy said. "We have wonderful people here," he commented, and he stated that his primary concern 
the National Basketball Asso­ciation's Detroit Pistons in 1978-79 following a highly suc­cessful tenure in the same posi­tion at the University of Detroit, where one of his star players was current Notre Dame assis­tant basketball coach Terry Tyler. 
Vitale joined ESPN in 1979 

1988. He was honored this year with a CableACE Award for his 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
is for the welfare of all workers, not just the 65 percent of the staff that is female. 
He said he wanted the staff salary average to be 110 per­cent of the South Bend average. 
In commenting on the pro­cess of selecting Nathan Hatch as the new Provost, Malloy said that the "hardworking" execu­tive committee was "one of the best I've ever worked with." 
"They kept in the forefront the best interest of the Univer­sity." The questioning of the candidates was "appropriate" and "not belligerent," he said. 
Another topic discussed by Malloy was the development of graduate education at Notre Dame. 
He expressed the importance of seeking out the very best graduate students and im­proving this search "to the point of quality that we'd like it to be." 
In speaking of the progress made in the graduate program, Malloy said, "The great univer­sities have to target and have to begin to make hard decisions. We are fortunate to be in a growth mode. 
The growth needs to be selec­tive and well thought out. I believe that every college and school needs its share of resources. I'd like to see a dis­tribution." 
Malloy listed some of the in­creases to the base budgets of the Law School and the Busi­ness School, among other col­leges, noting that "these funds will be used to enhance com­petitiveness." 
color commentary on ESPN's college basketball broadcasts. In additional to his sportscast­ing, he is a popular motivation­al speaker and the author of four books, including his recently released book "Holding Court: Reflections on the Game I Love". 
Friday, November I 0, I995 


Stocks 
continued from page I 

consistent with those of Notre Dame, including a commitment to basic moral values of fair­ness, respect for human life, defense of human rights and social justice. 
Students manage a "live" portfolio that was started with $120,000 previously handled by the college's Student In­vestment Club. 
Based upon weekly funda­mental and technical analyses of individual companies, stu­dents as a class vote on invest-
Directed by Reginald Bain 
ment decisions. By the middle of October, the students' in­vestments had earned more than $10,000 in a bull market. 
The course also includes tours of institutions such as the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the New York Stock Exchange, research and consulting firms, investment firms, and major brokerage houses. 
As to whether the class will someday be able to use the University's endowment money to invest in stocks, "That would be somewhere down the road, maybe after three to five years of the course's existence, we'll keep an open mind to it," said Malpass. 


Wednesday, November 15 8p.m. Thursday, November 16 8p.m. Friday, November 17 8p.m. Saturday, November 18 8p.m. Sunday, November 19 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 

Reserved Seats $8 

Student and senior citizen discounts are available for all perlormances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. Mastei\:ard and Visa Orders call631-8128 
and has been with ACE since ,----------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
<What are !JOU doing this Christmas? 
Consider signing up for Theo 365C ''The Church ;md Social Action," colloquially known as "Urban Plunge" 
• 
48 hour experience in an inner city of your choice 

• 
During the week of January 3 -11 (dates are chosen by the host site) 


• 
BE WITH, LISTEN and EXPERIENCE the stories of people who live in poverty 

• 
Talk with people who are homeless 


• 
EXPERIENCE soup kitchens, shelters and welfare agencies 

• 
Meet people who are trying to make life better for people who live in poverty 


REGISTRATION DEADLINE: Nov.10, 1995 
ORIENTATION: Nov. 19,1995 4--6PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
FOLLOW-UP MEETING: Jan. 21, 1996 6:30 -10:00 PM 
'.Registration auailahle at til¢ Center for Sodal Concerns, Campus ..:Minist111 and <J-lall '.Reps -<U!ND 
Campus ..:Minist111 and -Multic.ultural.9lffairs 119 .c.e.:Mans -S-MC 
Student .9tffairs Office -<J-lCC
l 
I I 
I 
I 
CIN ·. AAT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
/r<;,,..~/4>.;<~< ·::.~~"¥{. ~\f#~ 
LElGH SC..OTT lUtODElU<:::K 
At rh.: ..~nlt(r ofriue wurbi'~ nm~ n.~;.wrwus tabl1',.. w~ a woman ~h~ uftu:r tiJuc · 
FRIDAY &SATURDAY 7:15 &9:45PM 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
--· 

Friday, November 1 0, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Service project benefits neighborhoods Manhattan 
Annual Festival joins students with residents 
Special to The Observer 
Students from the University of' Notre Dame will join resi­dnnts of South Bend's north­f~ast neighborhood on Saturday, Novnmber 11 from 9 a.m.-1 p.m. in order to clean up the neighborhood around the intersection of Howard and St. Peter's Streets. 
The Fall Festival is held annually and is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns as well as student government in cooperation with the Northeast Neigh­borhood Association. 
The project will bring hun­dreds of student volunteers 

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14 1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 
Irene Dunn, Allan Jones and Paul Robeson star in 

SHOWBOAT 

directed by James Whale $2 Adults, $1 Students 
into the residential area just South of campus to cut down dead trees, rake leaves, pick up litter and other debris, clean out basements, haul away broken appliances and furniture, and plant tulip bulbs donated by Notre Dame's land­scape services department. 
More than 250 student volunteers participated in last year's Fall Festival. 
Organizers of this year's 
ON UNIVERSITY PARK DRIVE 277"73J6 
"Get Shorty" (R) 
2:00. 4:20. 7:30. 9:50 

"Fair Game" (PG) 
2:00. 4:30. 7:05. 9:20 
(PG-13) 
2:10.4:40. 7:10.9:30 
(R) 1:30. 4:00. 7:00. 9:45 

"Vampire In Brooklyn" (R) 1:45. 4:10.7:20. 9:35 
"Ace Ventura 2" (PG-13)(Fri-Sat only) 12:10.:2:25.4:40.6:55.9:10 
"The Big Green" (PG) 2:30.4:40 
"Never Talk To Strangers"(PG-13)(Not Showing Tuesl 7:45 940 
Thursday Night Study Break 
All Shows $4.00 All Day 
With Valid Student/. D. 



==-=-:-=® 

event hope to match or exceed that number. 
A barbecue for volunteers and residents will follow this year's cleanup at 1 p.m. in Kelly Park, on the southwest corner of Howard and St. Peter. 
For further information on the Festival, call Greg Zuschlag at 235-5547 or 277­0893 or Kristin Beary at 634­1277. 
10:00 
$3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6 PM *NO PASSES-SUPERSAVERS ACCEPTED 


quintet to perform 
Special to The Observer 
The Saturday Brass Quintet 
will perform a concert Sunday 
at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg 
Auditorium of' the Snite Mu­
seum of Art. 
The program will include "Suite for Two Trumpets" by Henry Purcell, Hichard Danielpour's "Urban Dances Book Two," Charles Ives' 'Variations on America," "Mu­sic of Brass" by lngolf Dahl and "Hichochet" by Kerry Turner. 
Tickets are $5 general ad­mission and $2 for students and senior citizens. 
The concert is sponsored by the University of Notre Dame's Department of Music. 
The Saturday Brass Quintet is made up of Charles Olsen and Tom Hoyt on trumpet, Pete Schnettler on horn, Thomas Hutchinson on trombone, and Kyle Turner on tuba. 
The five, a quintet-in-resi­dence at the Manhattan School of Music, perform traditional Renaissance, Baroque and classical works but also act as advocates of contemporary music. 
They have commissioned and premiered more than a dozen new compositions by such notable composers as Anthony Davis, Arvo Part and John llarbison. 
The quintet frequently gives masterclasses at the Julliard School and the San Francisco Conservatory of Music. 
1 




-----US 
House 

WE DEL 
Delivery


f$1-jj(jl f$~f]j(jl
Hours 
4:30 -'11 :®):ID am 7 Days a
i I OFF OFF
I Weeki 
I I 

I ($8 min. order) 
271-0125 

~~ 
i E!:2t~~ Good through 11124/M
I One coupon per peraon ., .. One coupon per peraon 

--~----~­
~· ul r ,\ r ..... ...l..-............ TA ••,.J,;.. t.~ 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 10, 1995 
SMC honors Hessert as Shannon Scholar 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
Kathleen Hessert is a pio­neer in the communications field, with achievements ranging from interviewing three United States presi­dents to starting her own major communications firm. Last night, she spoke with Saint Mary's students and faculty, as her alma mater honored her as a Shannon Executive Scholar. 
The Shannon Executive Scholar Program was found­ed by professor William Shannon and his wife in 1993. 
The program brings distin­guished alumnae from vari­ous majors, such as Hessert, back to the Saint Mary's community through class­room lectures, seminars and discussions. 
"I was determined I would go into broadcasting," Hessert said. As graduation approached, she sent out 100 resumes, receiving 67 responses and 7 offers. "Any response I got, I showed up at their doorstep," she said. 
And persistence paid off. Hessert became one of the pioneering women in broad­cast journalism, capturing the honor of being the first woman to solo-anchor in upstate New York. 
She worked for nearly a decade as an anchor. pro­
ducer, reporter and talk show host for CBS and NBC in the northeast. 
Hessert said she loved the "adrenaline" of the job. "One day, I interviewed a United States president in the morning, had a few interviews throughout the day, then rode an elephant the same night," she said. "I spent 10 years in broadcast­ing, and I loved every minute of it." 
In 1984, Hessert started her own communications speaking and consulting firm, Communications Concepts. Hessert stated that "my typical client is a multi-billion dollar firm," in­cluding the CIA, Southern Bell, AT&T, Miss America and Nike. 
Her firm branched out to add the Sports Media Challenge division. Clients include the athletic depart­ment of the University of Notre Dame, the NBA, and the NFL. along with Olympic athlete Bruce Jenner. Hessert wrote and produced the NFL's media program. 
Believing in your own potential is the key to suc­cess, according to Hessert. "You need to dream big. Most people don't have the guts to do that," she said. 
"You need to stick your neck out. and use the strengths you have to make a difference." 
()Al OF


NfORDER 1\NCIE HIBERNIANS 
IN AMERICA ..:~:t..""':'.<; An Irish Catholic Fraternity invites you to be a part of the organization that today, more than ever is at the forefront of what it means to be an IRISH-AMERICAN--supporters of the MacBride Principles; Irish Immigration Reform; Preservation of our Cultural Heritage --including the arts and sports. 
CONTACT: Maury Hoban 234-1871 or Dennis McFadden 273-9512 
Meetings: 1st Monday of the month at Mishwaka K of Cat 7:30 p.m.(next to Doc Pierce's Restaurant). 
Next Monday (11113): Special Social Meeting at Madison Street Oyster Bar at 7:30p.m. 
G R 0 U P 

For a career in Management Consulting 
Medimetrix Group, one of the leading and largest independent healthcare management consulting firms in the country, is seeking several new college graduates to take the position of Analyst within our consulting division. 
A career at Medimetrix is one that will provide sustained 
intellectual  challenge, development  of valuable  business  
skills,  and  opportunity  to  work  directly  with  senior  
management.  

We will be conducting an information session for all interestedjuniors and seniors on Monday, November 13th at 7:00pm-8:00pm in the Notre Dame Room at the Morris Inn. 
We will be interviewing on-campus November 14th. 

Man sues for arrest in bombing 
By PAUL QUEARY Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 

A Jordanian-American who was strip-searched and led through a crowded airport in handcuffs hours after the Okla­homa bombing sued the gov­ernment Thursday for more than $1.9 million. 
Abraham Ahmad, 32, of Ok­lahoma City claimed that he was singled out because of his Middle Eastern appearance and name and because he was fly­ing to Jordan. He was held for more than two days before he was released. 
He was cleared of any wrong­doing and was never officially described as a suspect in the April 19 bombing of the federal building. 
"No one should ever have to go through the mistreatment I went through," said Ahmad, who broke down in tears at a news conference in front of the courthouse, across from where the federal building once stood. "This ordeal has left me and my family hurt and emotionally scarred." 
The complaint filed on Ah­mad's behalf by the American Civil Liberties Union claims false arrest, false imprison­ment, abuse of process, inva­sion of privacy, injury to repu­tation and defamation . 
ACLU attorney Louis Bograde said the bombing, which killed 169 people, unleashed a storm of anti-Islamic sentiment. 
"Federal employees revealed information about Mr. Ahmad's detention and his purported link to the bombing to the press," the complaint alleged. The leaks "led to a rash of defamatory press reports, a tidal wave of press harassment of the other members of the Ahmad family, and hostile and abusive behavior by the Ah­mads' neighbors and other lo­cal residents." 
Justice Department spokesman Carl Stern in Washington said the agency had not received a copy of the lawsuit.Ahmad, a naturalized American citizen, left Oklahoma City for his native Jordan about two hours after the bombing. Federal officials detained him for five or six hours in Chicago, where he was fingerprinted and questioned. 
The agents eventually put Ahmad on a flight to London since he had missed his flight to Rome. 
When he arrived in London, British agents detained him, strip-searched him, handcuffed him and "paraded through the airport so that other passen­gers could see him," according to the complaint. 


OF AMERICA 
Daily Delivery to Notre Dame and South Bend 
Don't forget to pick up flowers for this weekend's dance! 
1404 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 4663 5 

(219) 288--3995 
• 
M,f 7:30,7 Sat 8,6 Sun ]0,5 

Edison 

"All major credit cards accepted" CHARGE BY PHONE 


-----·--------­
--------·----------­
Friday, November IO, 1995 
McNamara questions general on history 
By KATHY WILHELM on the North and propelled Associated Press America deep into war. Many U.S. historians have HANOI, Vietnam long believed either that the 
When former Defense Secre­Johnson administration fabri­tary Hobert McNamara met the cated the second attack to win enemy's leading strategist congressional support for Thursday, he raised a question widening the war, or that the he'd saved for 30 years: What White House had only flimsyreally happened in the Tonkin evidence of a real attack. Gulf on Aug. 4, 1964? 
McNamara was Johnson's "Absolutnly nothing," replied secretary of defense at the retired Gen. Vo Nguyen Giap. time, but even he admitted Both sides agree that North Thursday that the administra­Vietnam attacked a U.S. Navy tion may have made "serious 
ship in the gulf on Aug. 2 as it misjudgments." <:ruised dose to shore. For McNamara, Giap's word But it was an alleged second was the clincher. allaek two days later that led "It's a pretty damned good to thn first U.S. bombing raid source," he said. 



The Observer.. 
is now accepting applications for the following pos£tzon: 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Patti Carson by Nov. 13. Any questions calll-4540 or 284-5022. Experience is preferred. 
We've got yotAI"' flowel"'s fol"' this weeke"'d 's da"'ce 
*Lal'gest selectioVI of Fl"esh-cL-\t 
t'oses *Daily delivel'}' to campL-\s *StL-\deVIt discow·\t *Located oVI coi'VIel' of EdisoVI 
aVId JI"OVIWOOd *.All majol" cl"edit cal"ds accepted 
288-7551 
The Observer • NEWS 

Argentinian plane crashes killing 53 
Associated Press 
BUENOS AIRES 

An air force plane slammed into a moun­tain in a rainstorm, and rescuers who reached the remote area on muleback Thursday said all 53 people on board were killed. 
The Fokker F-27 twin­engine plane crashed Wednesday night, diving into a deep ravine in the Cordoba Mountains, about 500 miles north­west of Buenos Aires. 
Reseuers on foot and muleback reached the rocky crash site on Mount Champaqui at dawn and said there 

were no survivors among the 48 passengers and five crew members. 
Bodies and wreckage were scattered over a 500-yard area, said police Inspector Jose Carreras in the small town of Villa Dolores, 12 miles from the crash site. 
The plane was traveling from a base in the southern oil town of Comodoro Rivadavia. 
Air force spokesmen said the passengers were mostly sergeants, their wives and children who were on their way to a celebration at a military academy in Cordoba. 
Brig. Gen. Juan Paulik. the 
AP 
air force chief of staff, said 
weather conditions in the 
area were "very poor," but 
the cause of the crash was 
under investigation. 

Residents of the sparsely populated ranching area told rescuers they heard a low­flying plane followed by an explosion, then saw names on the mountainside. 
The crash was the second armed forces-linked tragedy in Cordoba province in less than a week. 
An army-operated mu­nitions plant blew up in the town of Rio Tercero last Friday, killing 13 people and injuring more than 300. 
~---~­
page 7 

Support weakens for Yeltsin 
By JOHN lAMS Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Public confidence in Boris 
Yeltsin's ability to govern Hus­
sia appears to be slipping as 
the president remains in a hos­
pital with heart trouble, a poll 
showed Thursday. 
Only 11.4 percent of those 
questioned by the Mnenie 
polling organization believed 
Yeltsin's health permitted him 
to carry out the responsibilities 
of president. 
Yeltsin could not do his job be­
cause of his health. 
A similar poll conducted a 
year ago found that 35.3 per­
cent believed Yeltsin could do 
his job even though his health 
was rocky, while 28.7 percent 
did not think he could. 
The poll was based on tele­
phone interviews with 1.051 
Moscow residents from Nov. 1­
3. 
The margin of error was 3 percent. 
Yeltsin entered the hospital two weeks ago for the second time in less than four months for treatment of a serious heart ailment. 
He is not expected to return to work in the Kremlin before December. 
On Thursday, he met in his hospital room with Foreign Minister Andrei Kozyrev to dis­cuss the war in Bosnia, Euro­pean security and other issues. 
At the end of the meeting, 
Yeltsin instrueted Kozyrev "to defend Russian interests in Eu­rope, and in the Bosnian set­tlement in partieular," the In­terfax news agency reported. 
The agency said Yeltsin ex­pressed confidence in Kozyrev, who has previously come under presidential criticism for allowing Russian foreign policy to drift. 

Yeltsin's chief spokesman, Sergei Medvedev, told Associ­ated Press Television that the president was getting better and increasing his workload daily. 
Medvedev said reports Yeltsin might have to travel abroad for medical treatment were unfounded. 
He also said the United States had offered help. 
Bed 'N Bre,lldilst Regi~try Mlchlana's First-Since 1983 
Enjoy approved, attractive private homes for ND/SMC special event weekends: 
•JPW •Graduation 
219-291-7153 

Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 
Official Wholesale Price list! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. '1\bshington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page Color Cmalog 

Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet Catalog al http: 1/www.sapeck.com/sapuk 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,1XXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$200 

• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 1219)232-8444 




r. 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, November 10, 1995 
projects. Program administra­tor Jennifer Warlick, associate
Bones Lugar criticizes rivals Jackson 
dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said, "We're trying to
continued from page 1 
give students an opportunity to 

for mean-spirited tone considers 
pursue topics of interest to
studies. 
Richtsmeier's experiences prove that it is beneficial for students to start early. She learned hands-on field tech­niques such as the proper re­moval, washing and labeling of bones and how to establish the gender of human remains. 
"(The field work] is impor­tant. Everyone has taken the classes [and] the graduate record exams. The field work helps you stand out," she said. 
Richtsmeier found, though, that she learned not just from the research. She also experi­enced the unusual environment surrounding her work. Just a few miles away from her excavation, the habitual vio­lence of that area of the Mideast continued. 
In one particular happening, their group, which included some Jews, found their vehicle stuck in dirt. And even though much tension exists between the Jews and Arabs, a group of Arabs driving by stopped to help their group out. 
Although Richtsmeier went for the educational value alone, she said that her summer ex­perience cannot hurt her from continuing her education in graduate school and then on to a career like Sheridan's. 
The undergraduate student experience is the very reason that UROP partially funds these them-not to their professors­in depth with a professor assisting them. One of the goals is to establish mentoring relationships so they can go further in depth than they could in class." 
UROP was established through a grant from Notre Dame alumnus John R. Mad­den, a La Grange, Ill., bank ex­ecutive who sits on the College of Arts and Letters advisory council. The program offers awards to individual under­graduates or groups of as many as six students under the direc­tion of a single faculty member. 
Richtsmeier was not the only one who benefited from the program: Tonya Callahan, a senior, researched the history of African women during the 1994-95 school year. And due to the fact that UROP funds more than academically cred­ited research projects, Ryan Beville and Jessica Szczepariak-Gillece, also seniors, both received grants to fund their creative writing activity in poetry. 
Sheridan has advised more individual students than any other faculty member since UROP began. She adamantly promotes the program because she had the same opportunity as an undergraduate at the University of Maryland. 
Asian Courses 


COAC112 
~d 
COAC212" 1 ontinujj'tg es€ · COAJI!lbt i'si'Vear Ja~se_ . CO 112-02OFi7 ·· ·''panJsef;.n 
i' 1 ···• •••and
.., ·.-~.­
,$·:":'""'"'" 
..lY/

COAT240-0I (HIS;t' 'I HIST 1 COAT 368-01 (ENGL 315A, GSC COAT 380-01 (ENGL 315B) COAT 450-01 (COTH 439) Please consult Dept. course description 
By MIKE GLOVER 
Associated Press 
JOHNSTON, Iowa 

Indiana Sen. Dick Lugar said Thursday his "mean-spirited" Republican presidential rivals have turned off mainstream voters and would be "dead on their feet" in a race against President Clinton. 
Lugar said the increasingly conservative Republican presi­dential campaign may please party activists, but it makes Clinton look better and better to voters. Lugar, stuck in sin­gle digits in polls on presiden­tial preference, said surveys show growing negative ratings for leading Republican con­tenders such as Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole. 
"They an~ out there walking around as candidates, but they're dead on their feet," Lu­gar said. After several candi­date meetings at which I've lis­tened to all of my fellow candi­dates, it offers a competition as to who is the most mean-spirit­ed, the toughest, pounds them in the head the most times that night," Lugar said. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
the Asian Area Studies certificate program. 
Featuring:  
Hickory Smoked Ribs  
Hickory Smoked Chicken  
Fried Chicken  St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Granger, Indiana  
Tender Seafood  
Grilled Steaks  
Deliciously Thick Pizza  277-3143  

FAMILY STYLE SPECIAL 
All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner $7.49 for groups oflO or more PERFECT FOR SECTION DINNERS! 
LOCATED ON STATE RD. 23 AND BITTERSWEET CrosED MoNDAY 
Retired General f:olin Powell: Ended months of speculationWednesday. 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole Rep. Robert Dornan, California Sen. Richard Lugar, Indiana 
Arlen Specter, Pennsylvania 
Pat Buchanan 

Former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander 


candidacy 
By DARLENE SUPERVILLE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Two-time presidential candi­date Jesse Jackson said Thurs­day he's thinking anew about running in 1996 now that re­tired Gen. Colin Powell has ruled out a potential White House bid. 
Less than 24 hours after Powell announced he would not run, Jackson said that he has met with his advisers to "assess the landscape." 
"I still have the fire in my belly and clear vision in my head about what a president ought to do to make the nation better," said the founder of the National Rainbow Coalition and presidential candidate of 1984 and 1988. 
"I have a plan to revitalize our economy to make us more fiscally responsible, to change our priorities, to make us more humane," he said. 
Jackson said it was prema­ture to say when he would reach a decision. 




r--------------------,
I I 
1 Ever wonder how your name and birthdate 1 
I I
reveal your character and destiny?
1 1 
:Suzan Stars' knows!! 
I  I  
:  Suzan Stars', Numerologist •  1  
I  ~  LaFortune Ballroom  1  
1~ I STUDENT UNION BOARD I  Thursday, Nov. 16 7pm  s:nJDENTUNIONBOAilD  1 1 I  
1  FREE Admission and FREE Refresments  I  

L--------------------~ 

Friday, November l 0,1995 
The Observer· THE RABIN ASSASSINATION page 9 
Arafat travels to Israel to honor Rabin 
By DAN PERRY handing over parts of the West Associarcd Press Bank and Gaza to Arafat. The area is considered the heart of 
Rabin: 
TEL AVIV, Israel the biblical land of Israel. 
What happened? 
Palestinian leader Vasser The secrecy that shrouded the Arafat made his first visit to Is­visit reflected the strong opposi­
D Rabin speaks at 8 p.m. (all times local) 
rael since the peace process tion in Israel to Arafat. still 
fJ Walks down stairs at about 9:40 
began, visiting the widow of reviled by many Israelis. Arafat 
p.m. and starts to enter the car 
Yitzhak Rabin Thursday night stayed away from Rabin's 
EJ Gunman approaches from the rear 
to offer his eondolences. funeral on Monday, saying he 
of the vehicle' 
Government spokesman Uri did not want to provoke 
• Rabin shot in the abdomen and 
chest with hollow point bullets at close range -40 em or 16 inches 
Dromi said Arafat and his en­extreme right-wing Israelis. 
tourage arrived at the Rabin "It was my duty because, you home in north Tel Aviv around know, in the moment of the fu­
• Athird shot hits Rabin's bodyguard as he hits the
10:15 p.m. (3:15p.m. EST) and neral I could not be for security 
assailant on the arm
stayed briefly. Arafat's pres­matters," Arafat told reporters enee in Israel was kept secret upon returning to Gaza after 
IJ Rabin Is taken to lchllov Hospital
until he returned to his home in his meeting with Mrs. Rabin. the autonomous Gaza Strip. Arafat was accompanied by 
Some security 
Dromi quoted Arafat as Ahmed Qureia and Mahmoud 
problems
telling Leah Rabin that the slain Abbas, two of his top aides and premier was "a hero of peace" leading figures in the PLO's 2 
rJ Area between stairwell and car
and that he had lost a personal 1/2-year negotiations with Is­
was not secure
friend. "He will be sorely rael. missed by both me and the Dromi would not say how 
IS) Rabin not wearing peace process." Dromi quoted Arafat traveled. It was not 
bulletproof vest 
Arafat as saying. known when Arafat last visited 
B Human shield 
Mrs. Habin replied that her Israel. According to some 
inadequate. Two 
bodyguards had already gone to the 
husband had considered Arafat reports, he secretly visited Tel 
"a full partner in peace" and Aviv in the late 1960s. 
other side of the car. llBarricades were up, IJ Trip to hospital was 
wished him success in seeing He officially returned to 
but no one was delayed by crowds. 

through the process of Israeli­Palestinian land in July 1994, 
liJ Car left in place for an searched. Shooter Driver not given 
hour, giving shooter allowed to stay near emergency instructions
Palestinian conciliation, accord­after a 25-year exile, to take 
knowledge of where vehicle, apparently in advance, hospital not
ing to Israel Radio. over the reins of the Palestinian 
to wait mistaken for a driver alerted to situation 
Rabin was assassinated dur­authority established in Gaza ing a peace rally Saturday by a and Jericho two months earlier 
•some Israeli media reports showed Amir approaching the car from Its left side, and shooting from several meters away.
religious Jewish extremist who as part of his peace deal with 
opposed his policy of gradually Rabin. Source: AP research APfTonia Cowan 
Leaders condemn extremists 
By RON KAMPEAS Associa1cd Press 
JERUSALEM 

As the possibility of giving up land to the Palestinians loomed ever larger, extremist rabbis' rhetoric grew more ruthless: Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was a criminal. A traitor. He deserved to die. 
Five days after an assassin echoing their edicts shot Rabin dead, fringe rabbis are coming under increasing attack by mainstream religious leaders who accuse them of corrupting society.On Thursday, they called for the ouster of their extremist colleagues. "These people must be thrown out" of their jobs, said Yehuda Amital, a rabbi at a West Bank reli­gious seminary who counsels dialogue with Palestinians. 
Another West Bank rabbi, Yoel Bin-Nun, said he would "fight to the death" against rabbis whose recent religious rulings named Rabin as a trai­tor and called for his death. 

s 

Sunday,Novemberl2, 1995 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 4:30p.m. 

Rev. Edward A. Malloy, CSC presider Lou Holtz, Post-communion reflection 
*collection to benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless 








VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, November 10, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... }en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majoricy of the Ediror·in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily rhose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• EDITORIAL 

The walking time from "South of Joyce Center to LaFortune" is 
11 minutes, 20 sec?~ds, but only at a bri.Skwalk. For a leisurely s.troll the trip willtake an additional 45 seconds. 
Th~se figur~s come from "Parking Lines" a flyer published by the Pal'king SerVIces Sectton of the Office of University Security/.P.olice. The doubl~·sided : flyer carefully outlines recent parking changes. construction detours and road closings. 
As t~mperatures. continue to drop, that 11 or 12 minute walk might seem more like an etermty. With the closure of the Bl lot around the stadium the University decided to bump faculty and staff into the Cllot which . . ' served as off-campus student parking. In turn. the off-campus :>tuiui:JJ.u ing lot was relocated to the JACC parking lot, or "south ofJoyce . In the view of the University, nearly everyone will have .to make a l:IU!iiHlltut:l m order for the construction of the stadium to be successful. Their · .: · probably correct. Both the Ad Hoc parking committee and the Parking Services Section has done a credible job in assessing student and faculty concerns and trying to accommodate them according to the available space. Unf?rtunate~y. otT-campus students are at the bottom of the parking food 
cham and wtll be forced to make do with the current arrangement, even if new spaces are practically in Turtle Creek's back 
Although it may be little consolation, students wno a:re 'NaJkin1 tances should know that they aren't alone-p;;:~" 1'""'\~·;;::~·····;;~.,..;.;.. hers are facing longer hikes as wen. Showing up ·. •• ·. · but sh~wing up late for work is generally frowned upon. , . .· ..... 
But JUst because off-campus students are walking greater distances doesn't mean that they should be forced to arrive at class with frostbite. The uniquely unplea~a~t combinatio~ of South Bend's wailing winds and biting temperatures wtlllikely make thiS new arrangement a chilly version of hell for students headed in to the Main Building. LaFortune or South Quad. 
One way to alleviate the possibility of exposure eases would be the establishment of a University operated shuttle service running during the months of December, January and February. 
Buses could run from the new Cl lot near the JACC to Main Circle Ubrary Circle or Lafortune during prime hours of the day for off-campus ~tudents. The shuttle service would be of prime value on weekday mornings when stu­dents are headed onto campus with regularity. 
If that plan does not sound feasible, why not roll shuttle buses over to Turtle Creek, Campus View and Lafayette Square? Such a plan would elimi­nate the hassle of winter driving and would certainly be more environmen­tally sound. 
Unlike manr o.ther issues of student concern, few obstacles appear in the way of establishmg. a shuttle. S~udent Government has indicated a willing­ness to explore the ISsue, and Phil Johnson of Campus Security said the shut­tle plan has been raised in the past, but specifics were never negotiated. 
As alway~, the success or failure of the idea will probably boil down to dol­la~s. Bu~ It seems logical that if student organizations found cash to fund f~ilures hke Weekend Wheels, there must be funds for a. 10ore practical 
VICe, such as this one. Some ti!llelyleadershlp byOtl·Ca.IO):ntS student tors could probably make the difference. ··. ···c·NW>· · 
After all, preventing frostbite is a worthy goal. · _.,, 
• 000NESBIJRY 

Dear Editor: Dennis McCarthy and their chief of staff, 
In the wake of the Notre Dame/Boston Mark Mitchell, arranged for a campus College football game, and the intensity of tour, a meeting with Ron Powlus and sev­the rivalry which has developed between eral other Irish players and gave Chris the the two schools. I would like to call our opportunity to go on the field for the pre­communities' attention to an act of kind­sentation of the Ireland Trophy. In addi­ness and hospitality that far outweighs the tion, the football office provided an au­
competition that exists  tographed ball for Chris.  
between our schools.  Unfortunately. Chris' con­ 
A ten-year-old boy from  dition has been worsen­ 
my hometown of Brfghton, Mass. named Christopher Neiman is  'With all the ani­mosity between  ing. He was able to make the trip, but was too sick to participate in any of  
one of the biggest Boston  Notre Dame and Boston  the planned activities.  
College football fans around. Sadly. Christopher is dying from  College, it is important to see how the two  I wanted to express how truly impressed I have been with the care  
cancer and probably won't be with us much longer. Hearing of his  schools can come together where a  and concern of the BC players and the ND Student Government and  
plight and his devotion to Boston College, several members of the Eagles'  human life is con­cerned. It shows how  players. The level of hos­pitality and willingness to help this young boy was  
program have taken the  much the schools truly  truly touching, and will  
time to get involved in his life. The BC players have  have in common.'  surely make his short time with us as pleasant  
adopted Chris, visiting  as possible.  With all the  
him at home and trying  talk of animosity between  

to cheer him during his illness. Last Notre Dame and Boston College, it is spring, Coach Dan Henning asked Chris important to see how the two schools can what he would like most in the world, and come together where a human life is con­Chris told him it would be to see BC play cerned. It shows how much the schools Notre Dame. Henning arranged for Chris truly have in common. and his parents to fly out with the team for Thank you to all who were involved with last Saturday's game. making Chris' visit to Notre Dame an 
When the Notre Dame Student unforgettable one! Government heard about Chris, they decid­MAUREEN MINIHAN£, CSC ed to make his trip as special as possible. Rector President Jonathan Patrick, Vice President Siegfried Hall 
Fed-Ex Joe sends greetings, wishes 
Dear Editor: 

Hello e:veryone.• After being carrier for over thirteen years (almost ten on the Notre Dame-Samt Marys-Holy Cross campuses), I was offered a position in the Fed Ex station at the South Bend airport. 
.Myself, and a ~mall cre"Y, are in charge of the loading and on-time departures of the a1rcr~ft and semi-trucks With your packages (which I notice if possible, daily). I miss you all, and the campuses, but not the stress of 120 stops a day. Hope to visit everyone soon. Take care and go Irish! JOETALBOON The Fed Ex Guy 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
IF YOU WIWT 7VGUT71-I& LAW~ teT'~ ft4V& A FUU, 0P&N {}13­8A1C3. 9V/3AI<I/Ik3 ex&MP­
770N9 ANOOIAN6135 INTO 
APPROPRIATION 8/U5 19 
£?liCC.ITFU~ ANO COUIARJ?t.Y-' 
ITCANNOT813 7Vl&RAT&/?l 
/XJ I a7UTA 7HREA7? MY aJUEA6U& FROM CAUfORNIA 
9HOUU? 813 APPR./9131? 
THATIF 9H/3 TAJ<l33 MG ON, IU TAKE H&R.. Ol.fT.' 5HGU 
BeH6TOR.Y.' ~ 
70A9T/ ~ 
GON/3! 
"Advice is seldom wel­
come; and those who want it the most always like it the least." 
-Philip Dormer Stanhope 
VIEWPOINT
Friday, November 10, 1995 page II 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Columnist's words strike a chord in readers 
Dear Editor: 
I am a lot smaller than you Josh Ozersky (As it appears from your picture) and I am going to take you on about the arliclA in the Observer on Thursday Oct. 26, 1995. I hate to inform you but, there is such thing as a cab. 
I'm suro that you have heard of onn, after all you aro a grad­uate student at N.D. There was absolutely 1111 reason for Mr. Adams to be behind the wheel of a car when his Rlood Alcohol Level was 0. 18. That is way above the legal limit. I choose not to drink and I'm sorry to say, but I am Not a "dork." The article you wrote was tasteless and glorifies drinking and driving whieh last limn I checked was still against the law. Next time I hope that you think before you write and don't write. 
AMBER FRAISER 
Freshman 
McCandless Hall 

Friend's loss not 
moron in his mind) and uses his expansive stops his dehumanizing and gutless mission vocabulary to engage in childish name-call­for moral anarchy and irresponsibility? It ing-even towards a colleague in his own is a tragedy for these thoughts to be department. It was proba-embraced by someone at bly a year ago when Josh the graduate level. It is
only tragedy 
wrote about what a good an indictment on an time he had littering the 'Jt is a tragedy for institution of learning interior of a Meijer store. when its pupils possess
these thoughts to be
ofcar accident It soon became clear to me the trappings of educa­that what Josh did at that embraced by someone tion-the sheepskins, the store, he is intending to do at the graduate level. It expansive rhetoric, a cer­
Dear Editor: 
to the soul of his reader­tain amount of knowl­
is an indictment on an
Thursday, Oct. 26, 1995, as is usual for ship. Josh's base pro­edge and a visible posi­Thursdays, I agreed with the negation of nouncements trash the institution of learning tion of influence-and yet most all of the main points Josh Ozersky soul of humanity and con­do not know the differ­
when its pupils possess
made. This time however, I became visibly verts an obliging reader ence between love and depressed. While I never knew Rob from a human to a dog in the trappings of educa­hate. Adams, Josh's eulogy of Rob nonetheless heat -some out-of-con­tion... and yet do not It is because I love Josh prodded me to finally respond to Josh's trol hedonistic and and his ideological sym­
Weltanschauung. intensely selfish animal. know the difference pathizers (as well as the As I've gotten a chance to look into Josh's The author of the between love and hate.' ideologically vulnerable) mind {via his too frequent column), I've "Kevorkian Korner" that l bother to write 
writes, "Unless you have these condemning words. 
been discouraged with the dishonorable views he both holds and champions. Josh some dork handy who l will not do to Josh what 
is one of this campus' most vocal students doesn't drink, you have to drive in the mid­he does to his friends. west [sic]. drunk or sober" (The Observer
in encouraging the defilement of the mar­
riage bed. Josh glories in the thought of 10/26/95). What slavish dedication to a pa-PIEDER BEELI 
most every imaginable form of consensual thetically low view of man. How many Graduate Student of Physics adult sexual perversion (no doubt an oxy-friends would Josh need to lose before he Off-Campus 
Dear Editor: 

'Dork' identifies other possible choices 
We are writing in response to Josh Ozersky's Oct. 26, 1995 arti­cle, "Last words before taking a needed break." At the start of Dear Editor: . but they are choices. Another good one would be said article, Mr. Ozersky encouraged drinking and driving -a 
.Josh Ozersky, you were correct in saying that to call a cab. I would just like to ask a question, stand we find to be atrocious. Regardless of whether or not the you shouldn't use your 'Thursday forum to if the only way you have to get home after getting tragic death of Rob Adams was due to alcohol, a friend has been hornilize about the demise' of your friend. All wasted is by driving, shouldn't you rethink the lost and this cannot be ignored. you did was show your true ignorance on the idea of getting wasted all together? What good Obviously there are advocates of drinking and driving in this subject of aleohol use and abuse, both here at could possibly come of it? The only thing I can community. If there were not, this act would simply not happen. Notre Dame and throughout the country. see is the death of either those drinking or some We ask all those who approve of doing so to stop and think for a 
Let mil b1~gin by saying that l feel horribly that innocent by-stander. moment. How would you feel if you were driving after drinking Hob had to lose his life at such a young age To conclude, I would also like to inform you and someone died because of you? Maybe a friend riding in your because of something as seemingly meaningless that choosing not to drink does not make you a car, or perhaps a child riding in the car you happen to hit. Most as drinking and driving. But, that's thf) whole 'dork.' Unless of course you are defining the accidents involving alcohol end in the severe injury or death of point isn't it? Drinking and driving is not mean­term as someone with enough intelligence, one of the people who has not made the decision to drive after ingless. What it means is that hundreds of peo­responsibility, and foresight to know that their drinking. And knowing you have killed someone will undoubtedly ple loose their life every day due to the irrespon­actions do have an effect on their lives. I don't stay with you for the rest of your life. sible aet of drinking and driving by either them­drink, and am proud to say it. I don't condemn When one looks at what can result from drinking and driving, it selwls, or someone else. The saddest thing about those who do drink, and would be perfectly will­is very difficult to fathom why someone would do so. We therefore this whole tragedy is there was no reason for ing to drive anyone home who was unable to think the statement of Mr. Ozersky, "Unless you have some dork Hob to die. lie had no business behind the wheel take themselves. If that makes me a 'dork' then handy who doesn't drink, you have to drive in the midwest, drunk of a ear with a blood alcohol content of .18. Had I'm honored to have the title. or sober," to be, frankly, wrong. We entreat the students of this he killed someone else, possibly you or someone Hopefully someday people will stop to think university to not listen to such a statement which places immedi­close to you. I feel that the outpouring of regret before they act. Hopefully someday we will no ate desires over valuing human life. and sympathy would be entirely different-there longer be writing about the premature deaths of would be none. our peers due to alcohol. Hopefully someday 
Drinking aleohol is not necessarily a bad thing people like you will wake up and realize that you HOLLY BARKER if done responsibly. But, when it comes right do have options, and that those of us who choose KRISTIN BELL down to it people do not drink responsibly. to take the safer one are far from inferior to CHRISTINE DUFFY Unfortunatnly, your article seems to condone this those who don't. AMANDA EPSTEIN irresponsible bnhavior. I'm sorry, but there are MICHELLE MCGARRY other options available to pnople who think they BRIDGET DEPU1Y TOM MORAN must drive when they are drunk. Granted, tak­Freshman JEN RUBNER ing a bus or walking may not be good choices, McCandless Hall SADD Officers 
Youth sports program provides summer service opportunity 
D
Dear Editor: uring the past summer, seventeen Notre Dame students received three hours of academic credit and lived in Pasquerilla East and West. They were the leadms of a summer service project which served over 300 inner city kids. Ntlxt summer we hope to recruit 30 Notre Dame students for this same pro­gram. 
l.ou Holtz talked at length last July with nearly 300 area children about the rolationship betwe•~n love and disdpline. Fnw Fighting Irish football teams have received a better motivational speech. 
Soon al'ter Holtz spoke, South Bend Mayor .Joe KtmHtn told the same group of' kids about his experiences as a pris­orwr of war during tlw Viotnam conflict. Few 1:arnpaign spenehes have had more impact. 
The kids lloltz and Kernan met with partidpaWd this summer in the National Youth Sports Program (NYSP) at Notre Dame. Fundml by Congress, NYSP is a livn-week program that provides athlet­ic, aeadernie, and enrichment op­portunities on eollege campuses nation­wide to economically disadvantag11d young pnople. 
This isn't a "Notre Dam(l program." Instead, it's a partnership between the univnrsity and community to help loeal kids who need help the most. 
Most of the participants in NYSP at Notre Dame came from the inner-city neighborhoods of South Bend. With the assistance of school teachers, principals and counselors, as well as the South Bend Public Housing Authority, we re­cruited 385 kids for this year's program. 
All of the children -at no cost ­received medical examinations at Memorial Hospital and Saint .Joseph's Medical Center before beginning the program on July 3. 
Throughout the duration of the pro­gram. Transpo bused the kids to Notre Dame at 11 a.m. each week day. Once on campus, the kids ate lunch at the South Dining Hall, then took part in an afternoon full of activities before they were bused horne at 5 p.m.
A t DeBartolo Hall, for example, they filearned how to call up a picture of themselves off computers, type in addi­tional information and print out a sou­venir. Shiree Moreland of Notre Dame's Computing Center directed this pro­gram. 
They spent time daily with South Bend DAHE police ollicers who provided coun­seling on alcohol and her drugs. 
And, of course, the children participat­ed in numerous athletic activities for two hours every day. Swimming instruc­tion is an important part of the program and, by the end of the six weeks, the majority of the kids had mastered at least the basics. Other lifetime sports 
T
skills also were taught in volleyball, track and field, softball, tennis, soccer and basketball. hrough the course of the summer, the kids were under the direction of 17 Notre Dame students who served as group leaders, as well as a professional staff of coaches and administrators. The student leaders received a tuition credit and room and board for their par­ticipation. They also took part in direct­ed readings, kept a daily journal and will submit a five-page paper reflecting on their service in order to earn three academic credits. 
Sue Cunningham in our Center for Social Concerns coordinates the entire "summer service" program which is in approximately 190 alumni cities in the United States. Our local alumni clubs host and sponsor these Notre Dame stu­dents in the alumni home areas. Kathy Andrews and the Andrews Scholarship Foundation in Kansas City (honoring the late Jim Andrews) fund certain of those students who serve in those alumni cities. His partner, John McMeel, the current president of the Universal Press Syndicate, assists in this important pro­gram. 
This particular project which is the subject of this letter to the editor involves only the service which Notre Dame students will perform on our cam­pus next summer with local kids from the inner city of South Bend. 

K
Notre Dame is grateful to the many community partners who contributed to the university's fourth and most success­ful National Youth Sports Program. Norwest Bank donated $12,000 to help fund the student leadership effort. Three local labor organizations contributed $1,500. K-mart, Target and Meijer pro­vided award prizes. Hoosier Golf Carts contributed two carts for our coaching staff. Cellular One contributed six mobile phonns to help coordinate daily operations. Notre Dame made in-kind and cash contributions totaling almost $200,000. risten J.anow~ky-Dales, a counselor at Madison Center, served as our activity director during the summer and her organization and dedication made this program a success. 
We hope someday to document how NYSP changes the lives of' both our par­ticipants and the student leaders. We have come to truly cherish the young people who took part in the program, and we're looking forward to seeing them again next summer. 
James Roemer is the Director of Community Relations at Notre Dame and is the Street Law teacher in the Notre Dame Law School. He serves as Project Administrator for the National Youth Sports Program at Notre Dame. 
page 12 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, November 10, 1995 
A Celebration of Women 

By GREG BARLIN Accent Writer 

merican universities are established with the premise 
of providing a place at which a student can experi­
nce all aspects of life. Notre Dame is no exception. In addition to expanding the intellectual horizons of young people in the classroom, Notre Dame has a variety of other places at which students can enrich their appreciation of various aspects of life. One such place is the Snite Museum of Art. 
Have you ever taken the time to stroll through the Snite? Admission is free, and a few minutes within can illuminate the mind. Imagine strolling through gallery after gallery of art from across the globe which spans the history of modern civilization. An artistic background is not needed to appreci­ate the pieces found in the galleries of Notre Dame. Art is a wonderful reflection of culture. Just browsing in the Snite reveals insights about societies from around the world. 
The Snite Museum is in possession of over 14,000 works of art. From paintings and sculptures to photographs and wood carvings, virtually every imaginable medium is dis­played at the Snite. Because of the limited space in the Snite all works are not able to be presented at once, but the museum rotates the pieces throughout the year. The O'Shaughnessy Galleries are two special galleries at the Snite. They contain traveling exhibits -those collections that are not owned by the museum but that are being dis­played on loan for a short period of time. Currently these galleries house two unique collections. The first is "Irish Art," a collection of 42 paintings depicting Ireland from 1770 until the present. The second exhibit, entitled "Portraits and Dreams: Photographs by Mexican Children," is a collection of photos compiled by Wendy Ewald. Ms. Ewald distributed high-quality cameras to Mexican children between the ages of nine and thirteen from the southern state of Chiapas. She taught the children how to use the cameras, but she gave them the freedom to snap pictures at will. The results are remarkable. 
The Snite is not strictly an art gallery, however; a medley of activities take place at the museum. Periodically, the Snite invites distinguished scholars to speak on their own art work or the work of others. These speeches usually deal with exhibitions currently on display at the Snite, primarily the traveling exhibits in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries. 
Another activity held ·throughout the year is storytelling. This event takes place on eight Saturdays annually and is run by volunteer students, faculty, and other members of the Notre Dame community. Each session begins with folk music which is followed by stories told throughout the museum. What makes these stories especially captivating is that they are told in the galleries amidst the art. 
Every Monday, Tuesday, Saturday, and Sunday, the Snite shows movies in the Annenberg Auditorium within the museum. The movies vary and include foreign films, such as "Exotica," cult favorites like "Clerks," and even popular modern motion pictures like "Terminator 2." In the audito­rium, the Snite also hosts concerts presented by the depart­ment of music. These concerts feature musicians from across the globe as well as from Notre Dame. Upcoming concerts include a performance by The Saturday Brass Quintet on November 12 and a solo concert by violinist Professor Christine Rutledge on November 16. 
The Snite makes an effort to involve itself in the education of all students at Notre Dame. For those students with a specific interest in art as a major, the museum offers multi­ple internships. For other students, a more commonly used program is "Curriculum Guided Tours," established by cur­rent Curator of Academic Programs Diana Matthias. This program's purpose is to expand the artistic appreciation of the common student through a non-art-related class. The tours focus directly on the subject of each course. For exam­ple, a tour for a French class would view those works of art that are strictly French, while a history class would explore art from many countries within a fixed time period. 
Occasionally, the Snite will host major conferences. Although these take place only a few times per semester, one will be held on November 11. The Day of Women con­ference is a one-day presentation by women from the Michiana area who will speak about their roles in society. "Because most of the works in the Snite were made by men who lived far away and are now dead," says Diana Matthias, "we think it is appropriate that we celebrate the talents of women living in our area today." The theme of this year's conference is "Teaching, Learning, and Entertainment." Women from this area have been invited to speak about their professions in each area of the theme. The day's activities will include speeches and discussion and will conclude with performances in music and dance by women. Everyone is encouraged to attend and admission is free. 
These activities are just a sampling of the variety of events presented by the Snite that are enriching and enjoyable for all students. The museum is open from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m., Tuesday through Saturday, and from 1 p.m. through 4 p.m. on Sundays. It is closed on Mondays and Holidays. Additional information about current exhibitions and upcoming events can be obtained by calling 631-7960 any­time. 
Steel Magno 
By MARY BETH ELLIS Accent Writer 
S
ee "Steel Magnolias" with a friend. And make s brings the Kleenex. 
"I've realized as a woman how lucky I am," is a line from the play, a "dramedy" that examines l through a mist of hair spray at a Southern beauty s the women speak with Southern drawls rather th twangs, "Steel Magnolias" fits Saint Mary's Cinderella's slipper: its characters are smart, quie women determined to laugh through whatever trag them. 
Set in the eighties in a small Louisiana town that acter puts it, is so quiet "there's not much else to dol each other," "Steel Magnolias" tracks the roller coa dynamic women. With each scene, we drop in on t the characters drop by the salon where the entire pi -in a warm, comfortable, would-you-like-a-cup-• ion. Constantly changing, often subtle touches on th ies music playing under a scene, outrageous Christl earrings -reflect the mood and time frame of eac the ladies' experiences. 
The playwright sees to it that those moments wt spotlights, both the profound and mundane, all of in Southern-speak. The audience is privy to a full r!1 communication, everything from a gut wrenching di er-daughter tension to a rollicking gossip session a dalous extracurricular activities of the town's Merry Christmas." 
"Steel Magnolias" walks a poignant tightrope bet and tragedy. The play is rich with reflection of actw its characters remain static. As the show progresst different clothes, different hair styles (and colors), attitudes. Mirroring the experiences of the women and life itself -the script jerks the audience fron tears to laughter and back to the brink of tears ag< gering authenticity. At one point in the play, for somber mood created by a discussion of an impe transplant is made almost buoyant when a charactr report that donated organs are transported long-di~ 
coolers. The complex themes of the play are not lost on 


Friday, November 10, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 13 
nd Culture 

ias Steals the Heart 
Mary's student Debbie Justice, whose brassy portrayal of salon owner Truvy threatens to steal nearly every scene, responds to tho quasi-feminist message of the play. "The playwright is able to one of you capture the strength of these women. They are not stereotypical Southern belles." Justice points to a line near the end of the play characteristic that alludes to its contradictory title, "Men are supposed to be 
and death made of steel or something .... " 
n. Although "(It's about) the solidarity of women," agrees Melissa Dunne, Midwestern who adds a sophisticated, caring presence as Clairee, the widow 
liege like of the town's former mayor. "The strength between them holds them together in pressure situations." Whether daring to cut their hair short for the first time since kindergarten or deciding to have a child against the warnings of the medical community, the 
as one char­women of "Steel Magnolias" are, snatching a line from Truvy, 
but be nice to "made of nothing but courage." lives of six The show's reliance on individual stories to present a single pic­. much as ture of these six courageous women is apparent; "Steel takes place Magnolias" is a carefully woven tapestry of the character's -coffee rash­intersecting lives. Justice, Dunne, and the four other members of set-eight­tho cast interact with just the right amount of energy to deliver as poinsettia punch lines during lighter moments as well as keeping a well­glimpse into maintained air of barely masked pain while playing serious scenes. Molly LaJoie plays Shelby, a diabetic struggling to deal with both her relationships and the limits of her body; Molly Kelsey is Ouiser, a sharp-tongued but (of course) lovable grump; Greta Zandstra portrays the victim-turned-party animal-turned­born-again-Christian Annelle; and 1986 Saint Mary's alumna Lori Wright returns to play Shelby's mother, M'Lynn. 
The cast's talents were molded by SMC drama and theater pro­fessor Mike Morris. "It's been a breeze to do the show," he said before the final dress rehearsal, in-between overseeing a sound­effects check and manning a video camcorder that monitors the actress' every move while on stage. "It's a funny, well-written, poignant play." Morris faced the difficult task of helping to nar­row the eighty Saint Mary's students who auditioned for "Steel Magnolias" to the six-woman cast, which, he says, "has been fab­ulous. Things have fallen together very well." Especially when the lives of the characters seem to be coming apart. 
•steel Magnolias" runs November 9. 10. and II at 8 p.m. and November 12 at 2:30 p.m. in the Little Theater of Moreau Center at Saint Mary's College. Tickets: Call Saint Mary's Box Office at 
cast. Saint 219-284-4626. 
omen at the Snite: 
d Entertainment in the Lives ofWomen 
lsi 



udge for St. Joseph County, Karen a nurse practitioner, Jill 
sky, an instructor at Saint 1 College, and Sharon n, the chair of Notre 
....... ­
~­
Dame's 

Department 0 f Government. In keeping with the entertain­ment portion of this year's theme, the women will focus on the role the media plays in the United States legal system. In the wake of the O.J. Simpson Trial. the ladies will show how the media transformed that case into an enter­tainment bonanza 
and explore the other ways the media influ­ences legal decisions. 
The second group of women all participate in educational professions. Nan Plummer. Linda Brookshire, Maritza 
Robles, and Martha 
Kline will discuss 
teaching and a wom­
an's place in education 
in today's society. 
After a break for lunch, a 

group of women involved in the 
media will speak about their profes­
sions and how entertainment has influ­
enced the media in recent years. There is 
a common belief that the news at times leans toward entertainment rather than .the truth in order to keep people inter­ested. Deanna Francis of the South Bend Tribune. Robin Alexander from WVPE. Gail Martin from WNIT. and Ellen Crooke of WNDU will share their feelings on the 
subject. 

The final group of women to speak are 
all involved with music. "In addition to tire 
speakers, I try to get some music or some 
dancing or both." said Matthias. This 
group of women fill that role. Nancy Menk 
of Saint Mary's College will speak about 
the conducting that she has done in her 
life. while Mary Anne Ballard and Rosie 
McCormick will perform. Ballard is an 
accomplished viola player, while 
McCormick is a folk singer. 
All of the women will discuss the role the 
theme has played in their lives. There will 
be opportunities for questions and answers 
throughout the day. Once the festivities 
end, a reception will be held in the atrium 
of the Snite. 
"The Day of Women is a wonderful 
opportunity to see and hear active, intelli­
gent. interesting women talk about things 
that are important to them," says 
Matthias. 
Admission is free. and all are welcome. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 10, 1995 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
since July which gives us an advantage over col­lege teams who have only been together for three weeks," head coach Armin Andres said. 
That extra time might have helped the Irish who had trouble establishing an offensive set all night. Part of the problem stemmed from their inability to read the various Giesen defenses. 
"They switched defenses on us and we couldn't adjust," MacLeod commented. "We missed a ton of open shots and also forced a lot shots. We had driving opportunities and didn't take advantage." 
In discussing the lack of offensive rhythm, MacLeod also noted that the pace of the Irish play threw the offense out of cinch. 
"We came out a little too tight and we were try­ing to be a little too cautious," Hoover said. "Anytime you do that, things aren't going to work out for you because you're pressing too hard. We got down and everyone started going that much harder and we just couldn't get into the flow of the game." 
Sophomore forward Pat Garrity led Notre Dame with 16 points, while Hoover had 13. Junior guard Admore White gave the Irish quali­ty minutes, shooting 5-for-6 from the field and finishing with 11 points. 
"Admore did a good job for us tonight," MacLeod added. 
MacLeod was also pleased with the play of freshman Phil Hickey who grabbed-nine re­bounds in the first half to complement his four points. In his return from an injury-plagued junior season, Keith Kurowski saw 18 minutes of action, scoring three points from the free-throw line. 
"We don't have anything to worry about," Hoover added. "Its just first game jitters. We need to practice hard, look at the game film, see what our mistakes are and learn from them and improve for the next game." 
•NFL 

Raiders ready to face Giants 
up with it. We're into a rhythm with never looked back. how we handle things. But it does "I have a tendency not to look back 
Hostetler, Brown, 
make it a lot more difficult than not and just always look forward. Other having to jump on a plane every than the fact I did learn a lot, I do notlead high-powered week." look back on my as a Giant." They've dealt with such tribu­Hostetler has a broken bone in his
offense into game lations so well that the Raiders are 8-left hand, but almost certainly will 2, the second-best record in the play. league. They rank fourth in offense, "I don't think it's going to be a
at Meadowlands 
with a surprisingly effective running problem," he said. "I played three­game led by Harvey Williams and quarters of the game (at Cincinnati) 
By BARRY WILNER 
rookie Napoleon Kaufman operating with it, and it's more a nuisance than
Associated Press 
behind a solid line. Oakland is tied anything." for the league lead with a plus-1 0 The Raiders will test an inex­
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
turnover ratio, with 25 takeaways perienced and injury-depleted Giants The Oakland Raiders, who claim and 17 fumble recoveries, both tops secondary that has second-year freethey are on the road every week, are in the NFL. safety Tito Wooten filling in formaking a trip they have little to com­And the Raiders have 29 sacks. Vencie Glenn. How nice of the Giants plain about. 
"You're talking about one of the to become short-handed with
The Raiders carry a 3-1 record at 
most balanced teams in the league," Oakland's potent version of the WestGiants Stadium into Sunday's game Giants cornerback Phillippi Sparks Coast offense coming to town. 
with the New York Giants. They have said. "We're going to have our hands "They're using their personnel thesplit with the Giants in two visits to 
full." way they probably should have in the 
the Meadowlands, and are 2-0 
While the Raiders have been suc­past," Sparks said. "It makes themagainst the Jets. Earlier this season, 
cessful road warriors, the Giants (3-better, with the different formationsthe Raiders routed the Jets 47-10 in 6) have been decent hosts. They are and using slots and disguising whatNew Jersey. 
2-2 at home. they do. 
Having moved from Los Angeles to 
That home is where Hostetler used "I know they've got as good aOakland too late this year to relocate to play, leading the Giants to the receiver as any in Tim Brown. He'stheir training complex, the Raiders 1990 NFL championship after Phil up there with Michael Irvin and Jerry
still practice each week in El 
Simms was injured. Hostetler left the Rice. They're in a good situation." 
Segundo, an LA suburb. For home New York area in 1993 when new Far better than where the Giantsgames at Oakland Coliseum, they 
coach Dan Reeves chose Simms as find themselves. New York has lost to travel north and stay in a hotel. They his quarterback. Hostetler joined the every team with a winning record ithead back to El Segundo after each Raiders as a free agent and has not has faced this season.
game. 

lived in the past. "We're not going to quit, unlike
"That makes it tough," quar­
"I did some good things playing what you read and hear," Reevesterback Jeff Hostetler said. "After a 
with the Giants and won a Super said. "That's probably as tough awhile you get tired of getting on the Bowl and enjoyed playing with the thing to overcome ... when you pickplane all the time. It takes its toll, but guys for nine years," he said. "But up a paper that says you might aswe have been real good as far as sometimes you move on and that was well stop, the season is over. Webeing focused and not getting caught what I decided was best and I've don't feel that way." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 c~nrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Lost-Unique 1967 HS Class Ring All Gold-No stones-Julie-4-2706  Desperate student needs car $100 for use of vehicle from Fri 11/17-Sun 11/19  NO Ski Team T-Shirts!.................. # ... ·--.. ----... ----­.. Really cool and only $10!  '*WANTED: WHITE SOX FANS Past, Present. & Future(?) for ad. class focus group on Nov. 15  ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your baby. Happily married. financially  
Found: Gold bracelet with one  call Dave 3313  Call Potter @ 232-2955 today!!!  (Wed). Vent your baseball blues for  secure couple will give much love.  
l/l/lllllllll/l/l/l/llll/l/l/l/111/lll  bentfbroken link on path near North  Peanuts/Crackerjacks!!!  Expenses paid. Call Margaret or  
Dining Hall  TUTOR FOR HIGH SCHOOL  Great for you, your roomie. or  Call NANCY 4-2456  Peter at 800-529-8386.  
FINOOUL..  AND  SPANISH. CALL HANHPHAM 277­ Christmas presents!  
2 rings on counter by sinks in 1st  5474. ALSO, TUTOR FOR  Hello, daffy English kheniggits and  
Nov. 16 7:00pm  floor women's bathroom in O'Shag.  SCHEME COMPUTER PROGRAM  GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEA!  Monsieur Arthur King who has the  Kiddo.  
Yours? Call Nicki X4803  (MAC).  Give a child you know the gift of  brain of a duck you know. So, we  From Colorado to Boston, I'm  
Lafortune Ballroom  reading. Colorful and unique per­ French fellows outwit you a second  doing it for you. OK, well mostly for  
*"'*** LOST *"'**  1 Time Cash Offer  sonalized books for children. 15%  lime.  you, you know. uh.ya. Oh and only  
ll//11//llllll/lllll/11111111111111111  SMALL GOLD HOOP  Transfer computer files from Mac to  student discount. Call 1-800-375­ something like 2 more of these, yup  
EARRING  IBM. Set up PageMaker 5.0 in IBM.  3340. 24 hr. recorded message  Eleven days until The Ghost of Tom  folks I'm almost out of here, off to  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  CALL 3709  Great pay. 273-1952  gives details.  Joad  bluer pastuers. you inderstand don't  
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  you.  
$2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlifel  WANTED  Will Pay $ For Used Mac Nonprofit needs used computers.  TICKETS  All over the world the rain was pour­ing  -An Illinois Farmer  
Prices increase 11/21 & 12/151  Good price. 273-1952  I was scratching where it itched  NDISMC Right-to-Life  
Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ • * * FREE TRIPS & CASH * • •  AIR FORCE 4SALE 233-1259  old heartbreak and despair got  Next meeting Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.  
6386  Find out how hundreds of students  WANTED FOR XMAS GIFT: Video  Justin  nothing but boring  in Montgomery Theater in  
are already earning FREE TRIPS  tapes of 1995 NO Football Season.  so I chased you baby like a wild  LaFortune. We will be discussing  
Spring Break! Panama Cityl Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ NAME YOUR PRICE. 402-551-8436  PERSONAL  pitch  January's trip to Washington, DC. If you're interested in going to DC  
With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best  ny I Sell only 15 trips and travel freel  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ but can't make the meeting, please  
Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach  Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  Need ride to DC for thanksgiving  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ call1-9006 by Tuesday.  
Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21  Mazatlan, or Florida I CALL NOWI  Johnx2786  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  born. Will provide love, nurturing  
& 12/15! 1-800-678-6386  TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ LaFortune Student Center  environ., educ., financial security.  Urban Plunge Applications due  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  EL (800)95-BREAK!  FOR RENT  We're open for your convenienceI! I Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call  today in esc by 5 pm.  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm  81 8/241-5535 collect. Legal &  A Hospital. what is it?  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South  TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­ HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO  Sat.: Noon -6:00pm  Confidential.  It's a big building with patients, but  
Bend & Hotel From $419! Book  Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching  232-2595  Sun.: Noon-Midnight  that's not important right now.  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  basic conversational English in  (closed home football Saturdays)  ADOPTION .. _ INTERESTED IN  
Spring Break Travel1-800-678­ Japan, Taiwan, or S. Korea. No  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  HEARING MORE??  If we built a large wooden badger_ __  
6386  teaching background or Asian lan­ Breakfast Inn has space available  000c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0a0  Warm, professional Indiana couple,  
guages required. For information  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ QUALI1Y COPIES, QUICKLVIII  lots of experience with children,  HiTenille!  
..  Wanted!!  call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  THE COPY SHOP  would love to talk to you about what  
Individuals. Student Organizations  30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 8­ LaFortune Student Center  we can offer your precious child.  Only 35 days left.  
to Promote  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ 9487  Phone 631-COPY  Stability, nurturing, love of learning,  Where did those 3 1/2 years go?  
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  0c0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0c0c0  travel, lots of extended family, and  
FREE TRIPS  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  Comfortable 2 Bdrm ho_me. 1 mi. to  full-time mom are just some of the  AS­ 
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ month. Room and Board!  campus. $450/mo. Call Chuck  If you see  things that your child would experi­ Don't be afraid to use that pointed  
GRAMS  Transporation! Male or Female. No  Majcher at 273-0860.  "'*ERIK GOLDSCHMIDT"*  ence in our home.lnterested in  stick.  
http://www.icpt.com  experience necessary. Call  or  hearing more? CALL US (day or  -AC  
1-800-327-6013  (206)545-4155 extA55842  ROOMMATE WANTED: To share  "**CHANDRA FORTNEY***  night). Expenses paid. Theresa &  
2-bdr. house w/ F Grad student  on Sunday, don't forget to wish  Lee 1-800-600-8428.  Tenille. is Brad still your Captain?  
Traveling east on At 80/Pa TP past  Roomate needed for 2nd sem.  and dog. near campus, wash/drier,  them a happy birthday!!!  
Susqu. River for xmas, I need a  Male Grad .. stu. pref. Nice 2br apt.  quiet neighborhood. $150/mo +­ $5.50 HAIRCUT  Surely, you must be joking?  
nde-Call Jared@ X0508  near campus $280/mo. 277-3107  Call Jackie 232-7970  
1-80 is damn boring!!!!-which is  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  Kelly.  
• • Spring Break • •  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  why I'd like some company when I  1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST  My whole existence is flawed.  
TO MAZATLAN. MEXICO from  Seasonal & full-time employment  HOME FOR  drive home to Fairfield County  David  
$399. Airn nights hotel. Free night­ available at National Parks, Forests  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  Connecticut for Xmas .... if you're  233-4767  
ly parties/discounts. Call Ron 800­ & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  TO CAMPUS.  interested and can drive stick call  Gun.  
288-0328  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  Dave at 4-1216 or 1·5323.  FALL FESTIVAL 1995 is this  Hope you find a date by Sat.  
.._  ILOST & FOUND I  N55842 French couple (30 y. old) looking  PM & ASK FOR SANDY.  Student Art Work is still being  Saturday, November 11. Come join us and work with the residents of the Northeast  Every party needs a superhero( Broph .  
for English lessons at our home to  Need 1 roommate now &1 more  accepted for the Annual Student  Neighborhood. BARBECUE  Looking forward to Saturday. Are  
FOUND: port. CO player  prepare GMAT Good English. and  next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­ Art Show. Entries must be  WILL FOLLOW. Vans begin  you???  
Call Peter @ 4-3671  notions of teaching required. Call  2366  submitted to Student Activities.  leaving Main Circle at 9:00a.m.  
Please Describe  a.s.a.p. (219) 273-58-48 Granger.  315 LaFortune by  and will return starting at 12:00  No. I'm not joking, and please don't  
6 BDRM HOME NEAR NO. NEXT  FRIDAY, NOV. 10.  p.m.  call me Shirley.  
'LOST'  THE STUDENT UNION BOARD IS  FALL272-6306  Any questions. all 631-7308.  
Black Pagemart Motorola Pager.  ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR  Coed naked otters: more fun when  
Has been reported lost to the com­ THE CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT  SUBLEASE Turtle Creek single  Happy Birthday, Laurie!  Lost: COW Please return Clarence  they're wet.  
pany and is now inactive.  COMMISSIONER. QUES­ call Dan 2732769  Love, 4th floor Farley  to its proper owner!  
Its return would be appreciated.  TIONS???CALL 1-7757, OR STOP  Clean up your mess!!!  
If found please call Nikole at 4-1265. Thankyou.  BY 201 LAFORTUNE FOR AN APPLICATION  FOR SALE  Where are my velcros. Erin? I want them! lvo  Urban Plunge Applications due today in esc by 5 pm.  I say no!  

Friday, November I 0, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 

Even on an off night, Jordan owns Cavs 
The Associated Press 
Miehael Jordan overcame a lackluster first half and scored 29 points Thursday night, and Seottie Pippen had a triple dou­blll as the Chicago Bulls beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 106-88. 
Pippen had 18 points, 13 re­bounds and 12 assists for the Bulls, off to their first 4-0 start sinee 1987. The Cavs have lost their first four games for the first time since 1989. 
Both teams played without a starting forward. Dennis Rod­man sat out for Chicago be­eause of a strained calf muscle that the team said would prob­ably keep him out at least one more game; Rodman told a ra­dio station he might miss a month. 
The Cavs were without Ty­rone Hill, still hospitalized with weakness in his right arm and leg because of a car accident Tuesday night. 
Bobby Phills led Cleveland with 26 points and Chris Mills scored 19. 
The Bulls in general, and Jor­dan in particular, merely went through the motions in the first half, building a 51-47 lead even though Jordan and Pippen were 
__......ii'ffAII Students And II$ Faculty 
Are cordially invited to attend the 
joint ROTC Veteran's 
Day ceremony to honor those who have served our nation. The ceremony begins at 4:30 P.M. on 
Friday, November 1Oth, and will be held at the flag pole located on South Quad. 
(Inclement Weather Site: Stepan Center) 

Ifyou're having trouble finding ABC oryour stgnal is less than what you expect, call TCI ofMichiana at, 258-5858 or 1-800-968-5100 today. 
® 


TCI ofMichiana 
a combined 6-of-16 from the floor. Jordan had six points at the half. 
But Chicago picked it up late in the third quarter after Cleve­land went on a 9-2 run, capped by Danny Ferry's short bank shot, for a 67-64lead. 
Jordan answered with two straight 3-point shots and Pip­pen followed with a dunk for a 72-67 lead Chicago never re­linquished. 
Knicks 103, Pacers 95 
Two nights after getting a broken nose, Charles Smith scored 21 points off the bench, keying a third-quarter spurt that helped the New York Knicks hand the Indiana Pacers their first loss of the season, 103-95 on Thursday night. 
In a contentious game that il­lustrated the bitter rivalry that has developed between the teams, 54 fouls were called, play was physical and tempers were short. 
Pacers coach Larry Brown 
was ejected with 4:54 remain­ing after drawing two quick technicals from replacement officials Mike Bobiak and Tom Drakeford. Brown, who had spent most of the game protest­ing various calls and no-calls made by the substitutes, refused to leave the court and continued to berate Drakeford, who repeatedly tried to turn away from the coach. 
Finally, Indiana assistants Gar Heard and Billy King suc­ceeded in dragging Brown away. 
The last time the Pacers vis­ited the Garden, it was for Game 7 of the Eastern Confer­ence semifinals. Indiana avenged a 1994 conference fi­nals loss to the Knieks when Patrick Ewing's finger roll hit the back of the rim just before the buzzer. giving the Pacers a 97-95 victory. 
Derek Harper led the Knicks with 22 points on 8-for-11 shooting. Ewing added 21 points, 14 rebounds and four blocks and John Starks scored 18 points. 


~~ c~.~~!..~!~!:.L 
1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 

Banquet room'i 
Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday ­

available lor 
$8.95 for Adults 

up to 200 
$3.95 for Children under 10 

(.:.~ 27?-7376 • 130 Dixieway 5. (U.S. 31 in Roseland) at Randall"s Inn Suuth Bend. IN j 

'The l3e6t Tan 
Under The Sun" 
• Beds, Booths &: Euros 
• 
Open 7 Days A Week 

• 
Convenient Boors 

• 
Student Discounts 


GUilranteed Satisfaction! 
256-9656 

Rodman out for one month 
The Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Chicago Bulls forward Dennis Rodman said Thursday he will be out about a month with a leg injury, but the team said his status is day-to-day. 
Rodman told Chicago radio station WSCH-AM that he ripped his left calf muscle trying to jump on the last play of Tuesday's game against the Toronto Raptors. 
He said it feels similar to an injury he suffered three years ago that caused him to sit out for a month. 
"I know it's a month," he told the station in a tele­phone interview from Cleveland, where the Bulls are playing the Cavaliers. "It's kind of disappointing." 
Bulls spokesman Tom Smithburg said Hodman made the trip to Cleveland for Thursday's game and would be examined by team doctors Friday. 
Tuesday night's 117-108 win over Toronto was his best game with the Bulls ­11 points, 13 rebounds and six assists. 
Rodman is known for his hair color changes, tattoos, a brief romance with Madonna, missing praetices, suspensions and saying out­rageous things. Mter signing with Chicago, he said he would sit out the season un­less his $2.5 million salary was raised. He quickly dropped the matter. 
The 6-foot-8 forward, who has led the NBA in rebound­ing four straight seasons, came to the Bulls in an off­season trade with the San Antonio Spurs. The Bulls gave up backup center Will Perdue in the trade. 
Many here wondered how he would fit in with Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen ­two players he had been at odds with when he played for the Detroit Pistons. But Rodman has behaved himself so far and the three have performed well together on the court as the Bulls have started 3-0, their bHst senson start in years. 
SOUNDS UNLIMITED PRODUCTIONS 
presents 
SOUTH BEND RECORD & CD COLLECTOR'S SHOW 
Sunday, November 12 
10:00 am -5:00 pm 
AT THE HOLIDAY INN (UNIVERSITY) 515 Dixieway N., US 31 -33 North 
$1.00 OFF ADMISSION WITH THIS AD 
BUY • SELL • TRADE MUSIC COLLECTIBLES FROM THE 50's • 60's • 70's • 80's • 90's 
LPs • CDs • 45's • 12 inch singles • imports • posten • magazines books • concert photos • videos • t·shirts • cassette• • pim patches and much more! 
For Dealer Info Call Blain at (616) 375-2776 
• Door Prize• • 
-


Packers thin at quarterback 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Joe Montana wasn't inter­ested in coming out of retire­ment to help out an old friend. 
So, Green Bay coach Mike Holmgren must make do with two journeymen quarterbacks and even a wide receiver to face division-leading Chicago Sunday if Brett Favre can't. 
Both the Packers (5-4) and Bears (6-3) expect Favre to start Sunday despite a severely sprained left ankle that kept him on crutches and out of practice all week. If Favre can't go, Holmgren is leaning toward Bob Gagliano, 37, whom he summoned Monday from the tennis courts of Santa Barbara, Calif., as his starter. 
Gagliano shared snaps with the No. 1 offense this week with 
T.J. Rubley, who foolishly cost the Packers a victory at Minnesota last week. 
The No. 3 quarterback will be split end Mark Ingram, who used to throw passes to Andre Rison at Northwestern High School in Flint, Mich., 13 years ago. The Packers even signed rookie Mike McCoy to the prac­tice squad. 
Holmgren, who worked with Montana as quarterbacks coach for the 49ers in the 1980s, playfully tried to talk Montana into a comeback in a phone call Wednesday. 
"I said, 'Before you say no, listen to my proposition,' " Holmgren recounted. "He said he hadn't touched a football in a while and he likes what he's doing." 
Montana, who retired on April 18 with a year remaining on his contract with the Kansas City Chiefs, has been relaxing 
~7~ 
271-2382 

(We offer discounts for ND, SMC students!) 
Roadside Service • Jumpstarts • Fuel Deliveries 
I 
Tire Changing • Wrecked Auto Tows 
Only 2 minutes from campust 

We have the lowest !Prices In town, and are always there when you need us, 24 hours a day! 
\\"e accept checks and credit cards! 

with his family and doing studio work for NBC-TV. 
Packers spokesman Jeff Blumb said Holmgren and Montana, who are good friends, talk frequently and Holmgren's efforts were "in jest." 
After what happened in last week's 27-24 loss to the Vikings, however, Holmgren can't be blamed for trying. 
Favre sprained his left ankle when guard Aaron Taylor fell on him, putting his NFL-leading streak of 54 consecutive starts in jeopardy, not to mention Green Bay's once-promising season. 
Top backup Ty Detmer was lost for the season with torn lig­aments in his right thumb, and No. 3 Rubley, a former part­time starter with the Los Angeles Rams, came in with the score tied at 24 and blew it. 
Gagliano is 7-6 as a starter, but hasn't played in a regular­season game since Dec. 17, 1992. 
''I'm not saying it's going real good,'' Gagliano said. "You hear people say to take it a day at a time. Well, I'm kind of tak­ing it a moment at a time." 
Of course, Favre said he'll be the one taking snaps Sunday, and the Bears say they're preparing for Favre, not Gagliano or Rubley or Ingram. 
"Brett Favre's a great com­petitor. We expect him to be out there Sunday," said defen­sive tackle Jim Flanigan, who leads the Bears with 7 1/2 sacks. 
Also proclaiming he'll bounce back is Green Bay's defensive leader Reggie White, who strained a ligament in his right knee Sunday when he collided with fellow defensive end Sean Jones, who sustained a concus­sion. 
"It's coming along. Let God do his work," said White, who's been walking without notice­able discomfort. 
Jones said he'll play. And wide receiver Anthony Morgan (ankle) said he'll be ready, too. 
"I'm not going to miss this game," said Morgan, a former Bear. 
Friday, November I 0, 1995 


Photo courtesy of Colorado Sports Information 

Bears running back Rashan Salaam, shown here while at the University of Colorado, leads all rookies in rushing yards. 
Native-American Comedian 
8:00pm $3 Students Saturday $5 General November 11, 1995 Library Auditorium 
Charlie Hill has performed on the Jay Leno Tonight Show and will soon appear on ''Roseanne." 
Presented by NASAND as part of Native American Awareness Month in November. For information, call (219) 631-6156. 

Friday, November 10, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

• COLLEGE fOOTBALl 

Belfour's return lifts Hawks 
Associated Press 
Ed B1~lfour returned from in­jury to make 49 saves as the Chicago Blackhawks defeated the Vaneouver Canueks for the 10th straight time, 5-2 Thurs­day night. 
Five diffnrent players scored for the Blackhawks, whose streak against Vancouver in­eludes a four-game sweep in last season's playofl's. Chicago also went 4-0 against the Canucks last regular season, outscoring them 25-10. 
TIHJ Canucks outshot Chicago 51-25 but gave up goals on 3­on-2, 2-on-1 and 2-on-0 breaks. The Blaekhawks also had two power-play goals after ent11ring the game in a 1-for-24 man-advantage slump. 
Belfour hurt his baek against Toronto on Ocl. 26, when a loss started the Blackhawks on a 1­:~-1 skid. 1111 wasn't allowed to oaso back into the lineup, as Vancouver had at least a dozen point-blank shots. Belfour made save after save as the crowd chanted, "Ed-die! Ed-
COURSES CANCELLED 
ARCH 699 05 #4264 ARHI 252T 02 #1196 ARHI 252T 06 #0275 BA 392 02 #2692 BIOS 580 03 #2597 MI 342 01 #3164 
DART
MI 555 01 #3165 ROFR 236 01 #2388 
CQURSES ADDED 
#4452 -Aerodynamics I; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 09:05-09:55; Aero 240 prerequisite 
#4453 -Fund. of Combustion; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10-11:000; cross-listed with ME 456-01 
#4450 -Non-resident Thesis; 1.0 cr. hr. 
#4451 -Directed Studies; var. cr. hrs. 
#4454 -Dante's Intellectual History; 1 cr. hr.; T 03:00-5:00; Class meets 3/19/96-4/16/96; cross-listed with ROIT 423-01 and LLRO 424-01 #4449 -Bibliography of Music; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45 
#0354 -Add restriction: "Seniors only" 
#4272 -Change days/time to: MW 12:50-02:05 
#4273 -Change days/time to: MW 02:20-03:35 
#1225-Change prerequisite to: "(Aero 350 or ME 334) and ME 327)" #3096 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" #3149-Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" 
#3097 -Add restriction: "Graduate majors only" 
#3675 -Add "Permission Required" 
#3124 -Add restriction: "Marors only through 3rd period; then open to all" 
#1508 -Add restriction: "ARST or DESN majors only thru 3rd period; then open to all" 
#2353 -Change days/time to: M 06:30-08:30; PM Class 
#0094 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" 
#4261 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" 
#4262 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" 
#4263 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" 
#4442 -Change title to: "Thesis Preparation" 
#J035 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" 
#3556 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" 
#3557 -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only" 
#3094 -Add restriction: "Freshmen only" 
#3095 -Add corequisite: "BIOS 156L" 
#3065 -Add prerequisite: "Bios 531 or Chern 531" 
#0518-Remove meeting days/time #0147-Add restriction: "Not eligible to students who have taken CHEM 116 or 118" 
#3561 -Add restriction: "Not eligible to College of Science or Colle~e of Eng. students" 
#2942 -Add restriction: "Non-CHEG majors only" and add coreqmsite: "CHEM 224L" 
#2941 -Add restriction: "CHEG majors only" 
#3043 -Add restriction: "College of Arts & Letters students only" 
#2915-Change time to: MWF 01:15-02:05 #3520-Change time to: TH 01:15-02:30 #2310-Add: "ARHI, ARST or DESN majors only thru 3rd period; then open to all" 
#3730-Change time to: TH 09:30-10:45 #4372-Change course number to: (Govt) 341 and add: Juniors and Sophomores only #3824 -Change to "Permission Required" #2973 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" 
#3334 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" 
#3461 -Add restriction: "MaJors only through 3rd period; then open to all" 
#3025 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" 
#4146-Change day to: F 01:15-04:00 
#2526-Change time to: M 12:45-01:30 
#4088 -Change time to: M 09:30-12:00 
#4089-Change day /time to: H 01:15-03:45 
#4309 -Change credit hours to: 3.0 
#4310 -Change credit hours to: 3.0 • 
#4308 -Change title to: "Communicating for Managerial Effectiveness" 
#4119-Change time to: TH 04:15-05:30 
#3595 -Add prerequisite: "Phys 116, 128, 142 or 222" 
#4132-Remove "Permission Required" 
#4447-Change time to: MWF 02:20-03:10 
#0442 -Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55 
#4165-Change day/time to: TH 04:15-05:30 
#4206-Add restriction: "THEO 100, 200 or 201" 
#1457-Change to "Permission Required" 
#3449 -Change time to: MW 08:40-09:55 
#4420 -Change time to: MW 08:40-09:55 
#3122-Change time to: M 09:30-12:00 
#4227-Change day /time to: H 01:15-03:45 
die!" 
The Blackhawks went up 4-0 on first-period goals by Chris Chelios, Gary Suter, Sergei Krivokrasov and Denis Savard. 
Chelios' goal, at 4:59, came on a power play. Suter scored at 9:21 after Tony Amonte stole Russ Courtnall's pass to start a 2-on-1 break. About 2 1/2 min­utes later, Krivokrasov capped a 3-on-2. The barrage ended with 32.4 seconds left in the period, as Vancouver again got caught up ice and Murray Craven fed Savard on a 2-on-0 breakout. 
After receiving no support from his teammates, Vancouver goalie Kirk McLean was pulled in favor of Corey Hirsch, who played the last two periods. 
Flyers 3, Flames 1 

After watching his former team on television beat the de­fending Stanley Cup champion New Jersey Devils, Joel Otto personally made sure the Cal­gary Flames wouldn't have that opportunity against his Philadelphia Flyers. 
Otto broke open a third-peri­od scoreless tie with a goal and later added an assist as the Philadelphia Flyers defeated the Flames 3-1 Thursday night. 
"It was a new experience," said Otto, who had spent Wednesday night watching the Devils-Flames game at the Meadowlands. "I make no se­cret that I wanted to play a good game against them. I know a lot of faces over there. I'm sure it will be different when we go to Calgary." 
The 34-year-old center re­ceived an added bonus in the morning pre-game skate. Philadelphia coach Terry Mur­ray told Otto, who had been on the checking line, he would be taking the spot of injured Eric Lindros as the Flyers' No. 1 center. 
"Sure I was excited, but I had all day to prepare myself," Otto said. "They create so well of­fensively. They make it easy that way. I got a little taste of offense. It was fun to play a lit­tle offense." 
Pullig leads Aggies over lowly Owls 
By MICHAEL GRACZYK 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON 
Corey Pullig's 26-yard scor­ing pass to Albert Connell in the third quarter put Texas A&M ahead to stay and the 18th-rated Aggies struggled past Rice 17-10 Thursday night. 
It was the fourth straight vic­tory for Texas A&M (6-2, 4-1 Southwest Conference) and its 15th consecutive triumph over Rice (2-6-1, 1-4). 
Owls quarterbacks Chad Nel­son and Raphael Tillman failed to complete a pass until Till­man, in relief of the injured Nelson, hit Spencer George with a 10-yard completion with 
1:40 left in the game. It was the only completion for Rice quar­terbacks. 
Punter Tucker Phillips com­pleted two passes for Rice in the first half, each time catch­ing Aggies special teams nap­ping. His first-quarter, 37 -yard pass to Jeff Venghaus gave the Owls a 7-0 lead. 
Leeland McElroy had 168 yards on 28 carries for the Ag­gies, including a 45-yard TD run that tied the game 7-7 in the second quarter. The score came after linebacker Keith Mitchell recovered a botched pitch by Nelson at the Owls 45. Two plays and 18 seconds later, McElroy broke a couple 
HaPPY BirthdaY. 
Brian! 
You·re becomins a real PTP.er and the next DickY U! 

Love. Mom. Dad & Scott faka the StallionJ. Mike & StePh. and Kris. Scott & NickY 
of tackles on the left side of the line of scrimmage and outraced defensive back Warrick Franklin to the end zone. It was the Aggies' longest rush of the year. 
The defense helped Rice to a 10-7 lead early in the third quarter when Detron Smith fumbled after catching a pass from Corey Pullig and the Owls' Brynton Goynes recovered at the Texas A&M 31. The Owls moved to the Aggies 4 before stalling and Mike Ruff kicked a 22-yard field goal. 
Texas A&M followed with its best drive of the game, going 75 yards in eight plays. Connell outjumped Rice's LaDouphyous Shaw to pull down Pullig's pass in the front corner of the end zone and give A&M its first lead at 14-10 
Kyle Bryant accounted for the final margin when he capped a 67-yard drive with a 40-yard field goal with 7:13 to go in the game. 
Rice had a last chance when it took over at its 35 with 2:38 left but the drive ended when Tillman's pass on fourth-and­15 from the Texas A&M 45 was intercepted by Reggie Brown. 
The game marked the end of a series that began in 1920. With the demise of the South­west Conference, Rice is head­ed to the Western Athletic Conference while Texas A&M goes to the expanded Big 12. 



The Saint Mary;s College 
Department ofMusic 
cordially invites you to 
the twenty-third annual 
Madrigal Dinners 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday, December first, second and third at seven each evening Regina Hall 
Advance reservations required 

"'­

AERO 350 AME 598E CSE 700 ME 498B MI 561 
MUS 540 
CUA~GES 
ACCT 372 ACCT 383 ACCT 383 AERO 360 AMST 491 AMST 493 AMST 591 ARIII 488 ARST 243S ARST 2895 ARCH 546 ARCII 699 ARC!! 699 AI~IIC 699 ARCll 699 ARCH 699 BIOS 101 mos 107 BIOS 109 BIOS 156 BIOS 196 BIOS 532 BIOS 539 CHEM 102 CllEM 104 CIIEM 224 CIIEM 224A CAI'P 303 CSE 443 CHEG 698B DESN 217S ENGL 240H GOVT 344 GOVT 4928 HIST 342 !liST 415 I liST 422 !liST 454 l.I.RO 511 MI 502 Ml 621 Ml 634 MUS 223 MUS 224 MSA 611 PI IlL 538 PIIYS 309 PSY 353 PSY 480A ROIT 106 ROSP 570 THEO 283 TIIEO 400 TIIEO 423 THEO 523 TIJEO 622 TIIEO 634 
01 01 01 01 01 
01 
01 
04 
05 
01 
01 01 01 01 01 01 OJ 01 02 03 04 06 01 01 
01 
01 01 01 01 
01 
01 01 01 01 01 01 OJ 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 01 
01 
01 01 01 01 01 01 02 01 01 01 01 01 
()] 01 

:-""',_____________ 
Friday, November 10, 1995

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Basketball Officials ­Needed for Interhall and Grad!Fac/Staff Games. Pay!' $8.50 a game. If you are currently a Co-Ree official and would like to do other Basketball leagues, please call 631-6100 and ask for Mark. 
Women's Lacrosse Practice will be in Loftus on Nov. 13 and 15 from 9-10 
p.m. These will be our last practices for the semester. Any questions? Call Alison at. 239-7924. 
SMC Track & Field -The team will have a meeting Tuesday, November 14 at 
6:30 in the Angela Athletic Facility. All interested should attend. 
Drop-in Volleyball • It will take place on Tuesday November 14. 21, 28 and December 5 at the Joyce Center from 8-11. No ad· vance sign-ups or established teams necessary. 
Sportstalk-Join hosts Matt Hoefling arid G.R. Nelson as they welcome Kory Minor this Sunday on WVFI, 640 AM at9:00. 
• WmvtEN1SBASKHB.IU.l 

Henderson, Ivey, commit to play for Notre Dame 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team got a little taller and a little quicker yes­terday. 
Julie Henderson, a 6'3" cen­ter/forward from Ann Arbor, Michigan, and Niele Ivey, a 5'8" guard from St. Louis, Missouri, signed National Letters of In­tent to attend the University of Notre Dame beginning in the fall of 1996. 
The powerful Henderson. currently playing for Huron High School, is averaging 12.0 points and 10.0 rebounds this season, after helping lead Huron to their second consecu­tive South Central Conference championships last season. 
A two-time all state selection who also played for two years at Greenhills High School, Hen­derson has guided both schools to a 7 3-15 record during her four-year career. 
"Julie is a great rebounder who fills a lot of our needs in this area," commented Irish head coach Muffet McGraw. "She is very aggressive around the boards, and is a versatile player who has a good shot away from the basket." 

The speed comes in the form of Ivey, a multi-talented guard with a lethal shooting touch. 
The all-time leading scorer at Cor Jesu High School, Ivey led her school to a perfect 31-0 record and the Class 4A state championship in 1995. Ivey is also the school's all-time steals leader, and poses a triple threat to the opposition, as evi­denced by her averages of 18.1 points, 6. 9 rebounds, and 5.0 assists last season. 
Among her many accolades, Ivey was the 1995 Missouri Player of the Year, and was in­vited to Olympic Festival try­outs last spring. 
"Niele will help us out imme­diately," commented McGraw. "She is a tremendous defensive player with excellent quickness and speed on the court." 
•Urban Outfitters
~ 
• Vintage Levis
•Handcrafted Beaded
~THE 
& Silver Jewelry •Coats/Jackets 
1912 S. 11th (U.S. 31133) 
STYLE 

2 'h miles north of state line 
Hours:

Layaway& Belle Plaza, Niles 
M-F 1D-8, Sal. 1o-6
CO., INC. 

Alterations Available 
687-9123 Open Sun. 12-4 


Lanza earns spot on All-Big East squad 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sporrs Writer 

While the Irish men's soccer team's first season in the Big East was fraught with difficul­ties, it can at least be said that they didn't go unnoticed by their conference peers. 
One thing which remains etched in their collective minds was revealed yesterday, when senior forward Bill Lanza was named to the All­Big East Second Team. 
Lanza played in just 14 games due to injuries this sea­son, starting 12 matches. In limited time in those games, Lanza amassed six goals and 11 assists for a team-high 23 points. 
Lanza, who currently stands ninth on the Notre Dame ca­reer scoring list with 29 goals and 25 assists (83 points), has a year of eligibility remaining after missing all of the 1994 season with a leg injury. 
In eight Big East games, Lanza tallied a goal and seven assists. 
The Irish. beset by injuries and hampered by inexperi­ence, finished the 1995 season with a 9-10 overall record, and a 4-7 mark in Big East play. Their eight conference points weren't enough for the team to qualify for the Big East tournament, as they fin­ished just tenth out of twelve Big East teams. 

Too Muclb. linfoll'nHJttion9 Kylia~ 
Happy 20tlb. 
Bnll'dullay~ 
Love9 JBll'aJy9 Kim anJ TeniHe 


Friday, November 1 0, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
Jock 
continued from page 24 
cold to venture out and buy a nice gift. Besides. your date probably won't appreciate it anyway. Also, you wouldn't want to miss the upset of the year when Arkansas stuns Florida in the SEC Champi­onship. It might help Arkansas' chances if Florida's offense deeides to ny American Eagle to the game. 
December 3: The final polls eome out, and the top live are: 1) Nebraska 11-0, 2) Tennessee 10-1, 3) Ohio State 11-1, 4) Florida 11-1, 5) Notre Dame 9­
2. Sinctl neither Tennessee nor Florida are the SEC champs. they aren't eligible to challenge Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl. and Ohio State is locked into thn Hose Bowl. we get to pack up and head for Arizona. again. 
January 1: Tennessee has spent so much time complain­ing about bning No. 2 and not gntting a shot at Nebraska that thny take the Gator Bowl lightly 
and IHJd  up losing it.  North­ 
western  recovers from their  
loss  to  Iowa  to  knock  off  

Florida in the Citrus Bowl. 
Steve Spurrier was expecting a bunch of guys with pocket pro­tectors and dido 't even see Darnell Autry whizzing by him all day. At the Rose Bowl, USC coach John Robinson borrows an idea from Gerry Faust when his Trojans switch to green jer­seys at halftime to inspire a stunning comeback win over Ohio State. Heisman Trophy winner ·Eddie George fumbles four times in the game. 
January 2: Tom Krug sets a school record by throwing five touchdown passes, including a last-minute strike to Mayes to pull the Irish within one. Jari­ous Jackson comes in to run the option to perfection and the two-point conversion gives the Irish the lead. The ghosts of David Gordon and Hemy Hamil­ton arc finally destroyed as Ne­braska's last-second field goal sails wide right Notre Dame becomes the first team ever to win a national championship with two losses. 
All right, I admit it's a little far-fetched, but in a season where Northwestern can beat Notre Dame, Michigan, and Penn State and get ranked in the top five, anything can hap­pen. 
V-Ball 
continued from page 24 
percentage leader. "We don't expect a great match from Boston College, but they will provide us with a chance to improve." 
Carey May agrees. "A win in the final game of the season should provide us with a little much needed momentum for the finals in two weeks." 
The Irish should improve their record this weekend to 24-6 as they travel to the East Coast for their final two regular season matches of the year. With two wins, Notre Dame will clinch the number one seed in the Big East Tournament and earn a bye in the first round. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
NE~SFLASH 
Accepting art work through Friday, November 10 for annual LaFortune Student Art Show 
Any Questions, call 631-7308 
The Salon of Friendship of the University of Notre Dame, in association with the Pan-African Cultural Center and the Multicultural Executive Council, Presents: 
INAUGURAL FORUM ON SOCIAL & GENDER ISSUES: 
The UN & the Challenges of Social Inequality: What Strategy of Social Development for what Type of Social Justice'! Reflecting on the Copenhague Declaration and Program of Action of the World Summit for Social Development. 
Speaker Professor Denis GOULET TheW. and D. O'Neill Chair, Professor of Economics Kellogg Institute Faculty Fellow, Kroc Institute for. Peace Studies University of Notre Dame 
Discussant: Professor Peter Walshe Government & International Studies Faculty Fellow, Kroc Peace Institute University of Notre Dame 
Up Against Discrimination Of Women? The United Nations And The Issues Of Gender Discrimination: What Happened at the 4th World Conference On Women in Beijing And What To Expect From The Platfonn of Action Adopted? 
Honor Guest Speaker: 
Mrs. Kaba DJENEBOU Deputy Ambassador Charg~ d'Affaires 

Penmment Mission, Repulic of Cote d'lvoire United Nations, New York Mrs. KABA was the leading diplomat of the powerful delegation of Cote d'lvoire 
(West Africa) to the World 4th Conference on Women In Beijing in September 1995 and she coordinated the negotiations on behalf of her country. 
Discussants: Professor Ava COLLINS Ms. Diana ZOELLE 
Assistant Dcrut, College of Arts & Letters Ph. Candidate in Government. Univ. of Maryland Pre-Law Advisor Visiting Scholar, Kroc Institute University of Notre Dame University of Notre Dame 
Friday, November 10, 1995:4:00-6:00 PM, Room 100 Hesburgh International Center 
Exquisite exotic dinner after discussions, Notre Dame Room, 2nd Floor LaFortune. Please make reservation for dinner by November 9, 1995 with Paula Shannon at 4-2824. 
Women In Diplomacy: Challenges & Opportunities 

• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 

Belles back in action after two-week layoff 
By LAURIE KELLEHER 
Sports Writer 
After two weeks of tough practices and two tough meets, the Saint Mary's Swimming and Diving team will take on Calvin College this Saturday. The team is looking to improve after their losses at the Notre Dame invitational and DePaw two weeks ago. Coach Mike Whatley expects to see each swimmer improve their times. 
"I don't know how Calvin Col­lege is as a team," said What­ley. "I do know that we've been practicing hard for the past two weeks. We are in much better meet shape this time. I expect to see improvements for every swimmer." 
The swimmers feel more ready for this meet now that they have had more practices and a few meets finished. 
''I'm excited to see how we do," said sophomore Betsy Wright. 
Even though they lost to 

Calvin last year, the team ex­pects to make a good showing. Many hope that the competition will push them to go faster. 
"I think I should do well," said sophomore Sarah Gillen. "There should be some good competition to push me to im­prove my times." 
The diving team is also mak­ing vast improvements as the season goes on. Coach Dan Slattery has helped the divers learn some new dives and im­prove on others. The divers also hope to do even better in this meet. 
"We have been working hard for the past two weeks," said Slattery. "The girls are rally coming along . " 
Captain Megan McHugh is equally enthusiastic about the progress of the team. 
"The freshman have had an awesome week of practices and should do really well this Satur­day," said McHugh. 

ISO 
invites everyone to our INTERNATIONAL BANQUET which will be held at the Center for Social Concerns, Saturday, November 11 from 5:00pm to 7:00pm. 
Enjoy food from all over the world, share part of your culture with us, and have a great time!!! 
November 14, 21, 28 &December 5 Joyce Center 
.· ,8:00-11:00 PM 
, . ~ .;_ -~r-~~-. ·.~, ~ :...:/. . ., . . . 
. Come by Yourself or Bring Your Friends! · No Advance Sign·Ups or Established.Teains Necessary 
· .· ·• ::·. ·: . 631i6JOO ·: ' · . : -.. .: .·· 
• ''.,. • > 

-· 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 10, 1995 
• CRoss CouNTRY 
NCAA qualification at stake 
By B.]. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
It's time to find out who the nation's best cross country teams are. 
The Notre Dame cross coun­try teams travel to Purdue on Saturday to run in the district IV meet. The meet is very im­portant, as the top three men's teams and the top two women's teams will qualify for the NCAA championship meet. 
The Notre Dame women's team started the season by win­ning the Buckeye Invitational and finished second at the National Catholic Invitational at Notre Dame. The women have struggled lately, which has frustrated the runners and Coach Joe Piane. 
"They certainly have not run up to their potential," Piane said. There is some talent there, I wish I could put my fin­ger on why they're not running better." 
Senior Maureen Kelly has led the squad this year, finishing first on the team at every meet so far. Piane has also been im­pressed with freshmen Mary Volland and sophomore Mieke Walsh. 
"(Mary Volland and Mieke Walsh) have done a good job," Piane noted. 
The men's team has seen consistent efforts all season. The Irish have had a strong group in front in seniors Joe Dunlop, Derek Martisus, and Derek Seiling, junior Matt Al­thoff, sophomore Jason Hexing, and freshmen Antonio Arce. All six of them have finished first or second for Notre Dame this season. Piane made spe­cial mention of Martisus. 
"Derek Martisus has run very well," Piane complimented. 
The Irish have run against tough competition this season, and Saturday will be no differ­ent. Notre Dame's teams will face tough competition from Wisconsin, Michigan, Bowling Green, Marquette, Michigan State, Loyola, and host Purdue. Thirty-nine teams are in Notre Dame's district, though not ev­ery team will run. The men run at 11:00 Saturday morning, with the women to follow at noon. 
Twenty-two teams will qualify for the NCAA meet. The top three men's teams are guaran­teed to advance, while only two women's teams are assured of qualifying. However, there are at large spots among the top teams advancing to the champi­onships, so the women would have a chance to qualify if they finish in the top three. 
Piane thinks the men have al­ready run well enough to qual­ify, so they only need to per­form like they have previously to advance. 
"They (the men) have run solid and consistent, and if they keep it up (on Saturday), they'll have a good shot of qualifying," Piane said. "(The women) need to run as a group...they've been reluctant to be a front running group." 
On Saturday, the Irish will find out how good they really are. If Piane and company have their way, they will run like one of the best teams in the nation. 
Or at least the district. 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Senior Andy Burns hopes to lead the Irish to a victory at the District IV Meet Saturday at Purdue. 
MBNA, the world's second­largest lender through bank credit cards, is seeking candidates for its exclusive Management Development Program. Intensive, diverse, and designed to maximize the future success of each participant, the program is an·ideal entree into a leadership position with a dynamic and innovative financial institution. 
For more information, write to Karen Yanick, MBNA America, 400 Christiana Road, Newark, DE 19713. Or call 1-800-637-2070. 
Please attend our presentation and reception to learn more about MBNA and The Management Development Program: 
Morris Inn Alumni Room Monday, November 13 
6:30 p.m. -9:30 p.m. 
MBNL% Notre Dame alumni look forward to meeting you. 
AtBN" 
AMERICA" 
400 Christiana Road Newark, DE 19713 
MBNA Amenca IS an Equal Employment Opponumty/Afhnnalive Acuon Employer. MBNA• and MBNA Amenca• are federally rewsterccl scrvu:e marks of MBNA Amenca Bank N.A 
©1995 MBNAAmenca Bank, N.A. 
CLAD I 0-2668-94 

·­
Carroll Auditorium 
Friday 7:00 P.M. & 9:45 P.M. 
-lit-

A Sunday 1:00 P.M. sAINT 
'~~~~~~~ . . MARY,S
1,.. AdmiSSIOn $2 
coLLEGE 
~ 

When: Friday, Nov. 1 0 
9:45P.M. -11 :45P.M. Where: Ice Rink at the JACC Cost: $1 Members 
$2 Non-Members 
(Skate Rental NOT Included) 
Free Refreshments 
Brought to you by Flip Side, the group that pro­vides something other than the usual social scene. 
page 21

friday, November 1 0, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
• 


You're a Business Major cramming for an English Lit exam. It's late and you're cranky. You keep thinking, "How the heck is the damn 
-

'Raven' gonna help me land a job on Wall Street?'' You get angry. So you call Dad to vent. He helps you understand the importance of it all. Then he yells at you for dialing zero to call collect. Quoth the father, "Nevermore." 
• 
• HOCKEY 

Irish hope to halt losing skid 


By MIKE DAY Sports Wrirer 

Struggling to keep their heads above water. 
If sea level indicates re­
spectability, then the Notre 
Dame hockey team is in dire 
need of a life preserver. 

Heading into tonight's contest against Illinois-Chicago and Saturday evening's matchup with Ohio State, the Irish have dropped five straight games to fall to tenth place in the CCHA. However, they have a golden opportunity to turn it around this weekend against two of the conference's lesser known hockey programs. 
"We have to win these two games with our back against the wall," said junior right wing Tim Harberts. "We know that we can play much better than we have to this point. We just have to go out and execute the game plan." 
While Harberts has emerged the past two weeks after a slow .start, the offense as a whole has struggled after starting the season off strong. Averaging only 3.38 goals per game, the unit has reached their oppo­nents' nets just six times in their last three games. 
Freshman right wing Brian Urick (10 points) and senior center Jaimie Ling (eight 
points) have been solid all sea­son long, but their teammates must step up this weekend to sweep the Flames and Buck­eyes. Junior center Terry Lorenz is beginning to reach 1994 form after recording just one point in his first three games. 
"I owe a lot of my success so far this season to Terry Lorenz," said Urick. "He has done a good job of getting me in position to score, and he's made it a lot easier for me to make the adjustment in my first season here." 
The Flames enter tonight's matchup ranked eighth in the conference with a 3-1-2 overall record, including a 1-1 mark in CCHA play. Junior center Mike Perron (eight points) and fresh­man center Chuck Mindel (eight) are the team's top scor­ers, while sophomore center Adam Lord is expected to start at goaltender. 
Believe it or not, the Buckeyes currently boast a 3-1 record and rank first in the league in defense with a 1.50 GAA. However, to this point, Ohio State has played a sched­ule that rivals toilet paper in terms of softness. 
"It is important that we get a win this weekend in terms of momentum and confidence," said head coach Dave Poulin. 

THE LlNIVEI{SITY OF NomE DAME Dm\RTMENT oF Musrc 
FACULTY ARTIST SERIES PRESENTS 
THE SATIIRDAY BRAss Qui T 
Featuring Charles Olse11, Tom Hoyt-trumpets; Pete Sclwettler -lzom; Thomas Hutchinson -trombone; Kyle Turner-tuba 
-
Sunday, November 12 2:00P.M. Annenberg Auditorium The Snite Museum of Art 
$5 general admission; $2 students/senior citizens 
Call 631-6201 for more info. 
"It would be frustrating if we had not shown improvement this year, but we have, and we know that it will eventually start to show." 
As has been the case this year, Poulin plans to utilize most of the roster in different situations. Last weekend, de­fenseman Jeremy Coe and right wing Brett Bruininks, two of Notre Dame's top players, were out of the lineup in consecutive games against the Broncos. 
"We've maintained that the players determine who plays by how they play." said Poulin. "Different players are judged in different ways. It is not OK though for a good player to not play up to his ability." 
The Notre Dame defense has been a huge question mark all season long. 
"The team is still learning a new system, and it takes time to adjust to a different style and a different coach," said Poulin. "We need to start making those adjustments and get to where we want to be defensively." 
Otherwise, treading water will just get harder and harder. 
v 

No boundaries. 
~ 

No worries. 
R T 
I 

c 

The Extreme Gear® Glide Shell Jacket is for the skier 
who enioys pushing the limits. It features highly water­
resistant and breathable SuppleX"' with U ltrex'" Cordura" 
ripstop panels on the sleeves and shoulders, and a
A I L 

Friday, November 10, 1995 

Senior center Jamie Ling will try to help the Irish end their losing skid this weekend against Illinois-Chicago and Ohio State. 
No lifts. 
Iloop it 
IRISH WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
FREE admission with your ND!SMC Student ID. 

Friday, November 1 0, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
L\ou Gu"\'S A~tE 'Su.toos? ~·"' 
w~...,.,.. c-­~~E'• SEE. \Nt'o ~ET~ (>. 
l»c£. 
~,.~ ....... 
LVIN AND HOBBES 
Nk';HJ.I! nn~ srur1~> ~~ED M'11tlAST.~' 
·\ 

DILBERT 
ALICE SITS IN FOR THE. BOSS 
~----------------------~~~ 
'! 
... 
0
I WILL APPROVE 
<( 
Ill 
,.
YOUR tlPE.NSE. 
"' 
..
VOUCHER ON ONE 
0..
...
...
CONDITION 
0 
\. '-' 
"' 
·~ 
w 
\!) 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 24 Meanness 25 River's curve
1 Storage 12 Baseball fans' .21Arizona delights native 14 "Jane Avril 27 Blotto dansant" artist 
28 Debater's 11 Pitcher entitlement 17 Golfer 30 Drug-yielding Ballesteros plants 11 "I--Rock" 
33 Military(1966 hit) 
installation 11 Jerks 
34 Confuse 20 Goddess 
37 Kind of gold named in the 38Aword ofopening of the warning"Aeneid" 

21 Groucho in "A 39 Handouts Night at the 
40 Infamous name Opera" 
in spying 22 Beggary 
41 The Jacksons' 23 Fanlight section hometown 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
=+=+=+..:..j 131raqi or Israeli 14 Honorific for 
Macbeth 15ln a box 20 Dr.'s magazine 
novelist Read 23 Saint-(early Roman bishop) 
The Observer 
til£. ('1\o,_£ J2--r \C. ()riE7 '111111"'1'-Lj•v, 1J..•'ITII~TLL 
~ Or.. T11•:1. Ctlt. C:."'1\· · 
lO-JK AT. TI-llS! M'( TOf..S1. IS Cl-\fa..RR£.0 1tl f>.. BLf..CK Clt-lD£.R! I G.~T EAT T\-\15.' IT's R\l\~£.1)! 
Rfi/NEP.(/ 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
YOU fv\UST SLAY THE. CREATURE Wl-\0 STALKS 
THE.. OFFICE AT NIGHT 
AND E.AT5 OUR HIDDEN 
SNAC.I\5!!! 
)<\\ 

42 "Nobody's Fool" author Richard 
43 Good times 44 Kachina 
doll-makers 45 Cato's epithet 4&Anyway 49 Wait awhile 50 Begging 
DOWN 
1 Soup, salad, etc. 
2 Made quiet 3 Orchestra positions 
4 Musical sign 5 M.I.T. degrees 
& Novel featuring Lady Brett Ashley 
7 Lover of Endymion a Track star Nurmi It In unison 10 This: Fr. 11 Not constant 12 Delights? 
No· ~ot> bu"\s, OvP tP•Et<D­
~\ItP \-:1\oo ~oot>To f'i\E'SS \J.lt~l\.l3£S•DE:I, ~·u T"'o l)c.t<'.,-l(r-io~t~l>ti>OL~-So.uf."r 
(\BoV"< i<ornAt<<.E. ... 
\ 
90 ST.\CI( \N ,6-.NO\\-It.R 
PIECE. or BRg..,D AWJ WA.T.C\-1 \\ 
11\IS T.\t-\£. 
• OF INTEREST 

A Book Fair will be held from November 13-17 at Little Professor Book Center at Ironwood Plaza (Rt. 23 and Ironwood). Deposit your sales receipt in a designated box at the cash registers and a percentage ol' your pur­chase price will go to tho Ladies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Scholarship fund for students at these Institutions. Sponsored by Ladies of Notre Dame/St. Mary's. 
Student Art Work is still being accepted for the annual Student Art Show. Art work should be submitted to the Student Activites Office (315 LaFortune) by today. Anyone with questions, please call631·7308. 
Those interested in social concerns courses may wish to acquire a copy of the new free booklet, "Social Concerns Courses with Experiential and Learning Opportunities" for Spring 1995-96. It is now available to all interested students and faculty at the Center for Social Concerns and in the Library Office of Campus Ministry. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. BoxQ 
u,.. z  IT 1-\1\5 TO BE_  tion between family members can help you achieve your aims. A void  
EITHER YOU OR  entering into secret negotiations; outsiders will view you with suspi­ 
THE. SE.CURITY  cion. CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
GUAP-.0 .  SLAY HIM  Business travel will be very reward­ing if you stick to a budget. Doing  
FIRST A.NO  some consumer research before you make a major purchase will save  
SE.E. IF THE.  you a bundle.  
PROBLEM  LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Give financial concerns top priority  
(STOPS.  today. Apply for a loan. Additional income could come through adver­ 
tising or free-lance work. An older  
person offers well-intentioned  

Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City-------State ____ Zip______ 
34Museum 41 Entrained 
North South 
displays 42 Silents star 
Chicken Fajita Pizza Cajun Chicken Breast 
35 Baseball's Adoree 
Potatoes Au Gratin Sandwich 
Gregg et al. 44 Southernmost 
Honey Baby Carrots Vegetable Calzone 
36 Physicist Ohm U.S. city 
Sauteed Julienne Vegetables 
38 She became a 45 "High Hopes" laurel tree, in lyricist myth 47 Wooed partner? 
Saint Mary's

39 Firth of Tay city 48 "For shame!" 
Swiss Cheese Croquettes Baked Potatoes 
Get answers to any three clues 
Green Peas and Mushrooms
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Go all-out to show the object of your affections how responsible you can be. Business changes could make this winter a time of great opportunity and growth. Retirement need not be dull. Make your post­work years bUiy golden by plunging into a whole new field. Problems with relatives can be resolved. A love letter works magic. Marriage beckons as next summer approach­es. Keep your present job or home 
advice. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Review your financial situation with your accountant. Limit credit card debt by paying cash for new pur­chases. A sense of fair play helps you make wise decisions. Set up a regular bill payment schedule. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Teamwork is essential when starting a family-owned business. Romance may have to wait. State your views in a frank but calm manner, reject­ing superficial answers. Seek better rapport with all members of your household. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Getting better organized will reduce confusion. Initiate budget and finan­cial talks. Working in solitude proves highly productive. Remain goal-oriented where business is con­cerned. Pay attention to loved ones' needs. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Blend in with the crowd rather than going out on a limb alone. Influential people applaud your efforts to be part of a team. Sharing confidences causes wann feelings to run deep. Hannony prevails. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
19): A well-researched investment 
will produce a nice pay-off. A pro­
motion or special perks is possible. 
Your congenial attitude and urbane 
manner gets a new relationship off 
to a great start. Plan ahead. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
Romance heats up this weekend. 
Accepting someone's offer will sig­
nal a wish to become closer. Are 
you ready? If not, distance yourself 
from this person. As your social cir­
cle widens, wonderful plans take 
shape. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
Give top priority to projects that will 
tax your mental prowess. Your intu­
ition is right on target. Someone 
makes an interesting proposition. 
Seek legal advice before signing a 
contract. 
... 
• 
..... 
• 
A'i(t. '/().) ~V:>\\~G \\1AI 11-\IS APPL\t,tKE. 0\Dt-\1 
AG~;RP...\IA.TF:. ME Win\ MALIC~ PI8JRE.11-\0\JGI-\I ~/ 


24 Sport in a ring 
26 Alphabetic run 
27 Leave in the 
lurch 28 Sushi fare 29 Bantam 30 "The Afternoon 
of--" 
31 Site of Vandenberg Air Force Base 
32 Reply in a playground argument 

until something really fabulous comes along. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: songwriter Donna Fargo, actress Ann Reinking, Protestant Refonnation leader Mar­tin Luther, Native American activist Russell Means. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get as much work done as possible today in order to spend a worry-free weekend. Your spirits are lifted by a short business trip. Begin your holi­day shopping. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Two heads are better than one today. A friendship will be loving and last­ing if based on mutual respect. Act confident when negotiating a busi­
ness deal. GEMINI (May 21-June 20):
scorr ADAMS 

Closer communication and coopera­
.. SPORTS 
page 24 
• 
Regular season closes with conference foes 
Squad travels to Providence, Boston College 
By MICHAEL THOMPSON Sports Writer 
This weekend the Notre Dame volleyball team finishes off its conference play at
• 
Providence and Boston College. Coming off of a ·loss at the hands of the top-ranked Nebraska team, the Irish look to bounce back against their last two regular season oppo­nents in an effort to gain some momentum going into the Big East Championships. 
The always effervescent Carey May commented posi­tively about the Nebraska match. "Overall, it was a good experience, we now realize how we have to play to accom­plish what we want to accom­plish." 
Going into this weekend, the Irish lead the Big East with a record of 9-0. Providence, 3-6 
.. 
in the Big East and 16-13 over­all look to be no problem for 13th-ranked Notre Dame. Angie Harris and Jaimie Lee lead the Big East standings in kills, and they'll be taking their 382 and 366 kills into Rhode Island. However, Providence takes into the match the fifth­ranked defense in the Big East to defend against the hard hit­ting Irish. 
The Lady Friars are led into the match this weekend behind the hitting of junior Becky Loftus and senior leader Kelley Tooley who have combined this year for 552 kills. The defense of Providence however is where the real story is. Tooley ranks in the top five in the Big East in digs averaging just under four per game. 
Boston College, on the other hand, is not as equipped to handle the attack of the Irish. 
With a record of 1-8 in the Big East and 11-22 overall, the Eagles shouldn't keep Notre Dame in Boston for more than an hour, according to Lindsay Treadwell, the Big East hitting 
see V-BALL I page 19 

"''Gcrittatls..CoQquer Notr 
. • . · · • . · ·1 ·. : .. .: Last ffi.ght, Notre Da'roe< cqach John MacLeod said. ~~~~~~~~L~-·~: ·dropped an exhibitlc,tt ~on~ ~;rm being real generous 
, test to Giesen (Gez;J~1,lnyJ'll-·."Q.~r~ •..·It was not.a; go.od · '61· mooe of•th()se games tb;e. ·:nightfur Notre Dame·:"1' ·· ·· _Irish are hoping they,:got·~ut.'~),, Generosity·appeared to be of their system. \ '' ' tile theme oftlie nightas the 
· ..That was not a dfs., ··. totaled 23 turnovers of . .~issect UUmf'rO.l,i~. open · ·. ·· Those mtssed shots _,ft,,ft·~··--,~~"' for the abysmal ng percentage that 
R.lll'lW&Ill 

Giesen to take a 29­... lead into the locker room 
0 
at halftime. . 

· "We just weren't hitting shots, we were ~etting goodshots; we JUSt couldn't much to drop,.. senior .... Ryan Hoover added. shot: like 28 percent. nniii.n<> you shoot that bad not going to be in any
.games.'' ·. · By rounding up to the .· .nearest decimal place, .the 
:Irish concluded the nlghtshooting 29 percent which :attributed to tbe,in the first half. · Irish were in the at the start. jumping .· 0..-3 lead before the 
. ·sf~Iyg~:~~ 
:JAJ..t~P advantage as t almost nine '1lf!~~J'f!ri!lhm1t a fmld goal.
"-; up our own d we dtd.n't re'-.t.· a"'Leod added.

The,(~! f.,.,... ...., ....
' · · ,,_:we had a difficult time s.ior gua..O Keith ~rowski WC!S Gder-6 from the field last night Ia . :tz:t,m .a.Ii offensive stand-Notre Dame's71-61 'tess to:tila-Giesen at Germany .·/=~>Pint." 


Senior Brett Hensel and the Irish volleyball squad hope to complete a perfect conference season this weekend with victories over 
Providence and Boston College 


However, there was much offense by either in the first 'half. the amicable• exchange of 
shlrts by ~he seemed as ifthe  pla  ers,  
didn't realize the  
ended;.  .·.·  .  

Giesen .connected
·.. eleven attempts from charity stripe, yvhileDame made eight as teams collaborated to··. niH 26 fouls. The · tower duo of Marcus Y and Matt Gotsch both three fouls with just ...."._ ten rninu~es le:ftin the h~lf. 
.·In the second half, th Irish were never able the lead. After an jump shot put Giesen by two, the German would never look back. Giesen, James Shields h 25 poi'i1ts, while AfigKevin Lynch. each tallied 1 
,>Even thopgh this trio · . liave seemed unknown, three have had extensive perience. Lynch spent years with the Char_l 
·Ho,rnets, .while Shi played at Richmond and at Chaminade. 
Currently. the team is on break from its Europea
·schedule and has been working together the middle of the surnm1er 
..We have been 
Friday, November 10, 1995 
• 
Stranger things have happened 
For the first time since Au­gust, there is no football game to highlight the weekend's ac­tivities. 
This allows all the college football fa------­natics, 
myself in­cluded, an opportunity to check out some of the other top 

teams in the country and spend hours Andy Cabiness avoiding Spons Writer studying by ______ 
talking about the endless bowl possibilities. 
Before you become satisfied with a top-ten finish for our Irish and start deciding who you'd like to see win the na­tional championship, consider this: Theoretically, it is still possible for Notre Dame to be number one when the all the dust settles on January 2. 
Now before you get too ex­cited, realize that it's not going to happen, just that it's theoretically possible. The necessary scenario has more ifs than Liz Taylor has ex-hus­bands; and many of those ifs are less likely than the Cubs winning the World Series. However, to think that it's pos­sible is exciting, so follow me as we take a dream journey through the rest of the season. 
This Saturday: That test on Monday is going to be a piece of cake, so there's no need to waste a Saturday studying for it. Instead watch Iowa stun Northwestern. I know we've all enjoyed seeing the Wildcats do well. but i(s almost mid­night and the carriage is ready to turn back into a pumpkin. 
November 18: Notre Dame's game at Air Force isn't until night, so the afternoon is per­fect for watching Colorado knock off Kansas State. 
November 25: Take your leftover turkey out to the living room with you so you can see Michigan ruin Ohio State's championship hopes. I know it's hard to root for Michigan, but remember how rude Ohio State's fans were. If you are fortunate enough to have cable and a second television, then call up pay-per-view and simultaneously watch Florida rack up 60 or so points at the expense of Florida State. As you're having your second piece of pumpkin pie, make sure to catch Bobby Bowden whining at the post-game press conference about Florida run­ning up the score. 
December 2: Your Christmas formal is that night. but it's too 
see JOCK I page 19 

Football Women's Basketball 
• Hockey looks to stop skid at Air Force November 18, 8:30p.m. 
vs. Hungarian National Team see page 22 

November 11, 2 p.m. Volleyball 
Cross Country • Cross country teams at Purdue
at Providence November 11 at Boston College November 12 
District Meet at Purdue, November 11 

see page 20 Hockey 
SMC Sports • Lanza receives postseason honors 

vs. Illinois-Chicago November 10, 
Swimming at Calvin November 11 ?p.m. 
see page 18 





