
Monday, February 27, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 95 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Rita back in court to face old charge after mistrial 
ND law graduate charged with leaving the scene 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
A hearing to determine whether Notre Dame law school graduate John Rita on a charge of leaving the scene of a fatal accident resumed Friday, and the judge in the case said a new trial may not proceed until August. 
St. Joseph's County Superior Court Judge William Albright said Friday afternoon that the delay is a possibility. if the case does go forward at all. 
Hita. 25, of Springfield, Vir­ginia, was acquitted by a jury last November of a charge of causing the death of Notre Dame freshman Mara Fox. 18, of Oakton, Virginia in a Novem­ber 13, 1993 accident. Fox was struck and killed as she walked back to campus with her friends along Douglas Road, just east of Indiana state route 23. 
The jury deadlocked on a sec­ond charge of leaving the scene of a fatal accident. Albright de­elarr,d a mistrial. and St. Joseph County Prosecutor Miehael Barnes decided to push for a retrial on that charge. 
Defense attorney Charles 
Asher argued two motions at the hearing, one to have the windshield of Rita's car ex­cluded as evidence and one to dismiss the ease. 
Asher said that "the ease boils down to what did John Rita know, and when did he know it?" 
"llow can a jury determine what was visible to John Rita and the others in the car?" said Asher. Any expert witness ei­ther side calls to testify could only guess at the conditions and amount of light at the crash scene, he said. 
Rita maintained throughout the case that he was not drunk as he drove his friends toward the Notre Dame campus in the early morning hours of November 13. In the first trial Rita testified that he did not stop his car when he heard a sound because he and his pas­sengers did not realize they hit anything. Rita said he decided to circle back and check the road for any problems. It was not until the car passed through a well light area that a passenger saw the smashed windshield and alerted Rita to the problem. 
After viewing the windshield, Rita returned to his University Park apartment. He was awak­ened by police officers and ar­rested three hours after coming back to his apartment. 
see RITA I page 4 

The Observer/Brian Hiudy 
NCAA Convention 
Wilbert Leonard, professor of Sociology at Illinois State, spoke Sunday on the affects of college athletics in higher education. 

China and 

U.S. form agreement 
By CHARLENE FU 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 
China and the United States averted a major trade war Sunday by signing a comprehensive agreement putting teeth into Chinese laws 
• see China, page 5 
protecting copyright. trade­marks and patents. 
The agreement capped 20 months of "often very difficult negotiations," said Deputy U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky. 
"This is a strong agreement for American companies and American workers," President Clinton said in a statement is­sued by the White House. 
"This agreement will elimi­nate practices that have cost Americans over $1 billion a year in high-value exports. It will mean thousands of jobs for Americans in key industries. including computer software, pharmaceuticals, agricultural and chemical products, books and periodicals. and audiovisu­al products." 
Chinese trade minister Wu Yi said the negotiations on enforcing intellectual property rights affected the entire Sino­
U.S. relationship. 

South Bend is a model of change The oldest, most prestegious 
By NANCY ARMOUR 
Associated Press Writer 
SOUTH BEND 
The dark industrial factories along the St. Joseph Hiver that were once the hallmark of this city's downtown are gone. Gone. too. are the high-paying manufacturing jobs at compa­

nies such as Studebaker and Bendix. 
Now the downtown is filled with men and women who dress in business suits and work in professional or service­oriented companies housed in gleaming buildings of steel and glass. 

The Observer/ Brian Hardy 
Freshman Four 

The Freshman Four performed one-act plays this weekend at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium to an enthusiastic crowd. 
Like many other cities that once based their fortunes on manufacturing. South Bend has had to adapt to the changing times. In the 1950s alone. the city lost about 50 manufactur­ing companies that employed 100 or more people. 
Studebaker. once the area's largest employer with 25,000 workers, shut its doors in 1963. All that is left is a museum that houses a collection of the com­pany's cars. 
"I don't think there's any question there's been a change in the basic structure of the South Bend area," said Jon Hunt, director of the city's De­partment of Community and Economic Development. "What we're seeing is a flip from man­ufacturing jobs into service-ori­ented, professional business­oriented types of jobs." 
In 1956, manufacturing em­ployees made up 57.8 percent of the workforce in South Bend. But by 1989, only 21.9 percent of the workforce was engaged in manufacturing, and today it stands at 17.6 percent. 
"More people worked at Studebaker in its heyday than work in manufacturing in the county today," said John Peck, a professor of economics at In­diana University-South Bend. "We didn't look a lot like the United States 40 years ago, but we do much more today." 
The decline of South Bend's manufacturing industry hap­pened in almost every city 
see STUDEBAKER I page 4 

bank in Britian goes broke 
By DIRK BEVERIDGE 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Baring Brothers & Co., one of the oldest and most presti­gious British investment banks, went broke when a trader lost more than 500 million pounds, or $800 million. gambling in Asian futures markets, it was announced Sunday. 
The Bank of England sought over the weekend to rescue Barings PLC, the holding com­pany for the bank, but a consortium of the top banks in Britain gave up on the idea because there was no way to cap the potential losses at Barings. 
"They had a rogue trader who concealed what he was doing from the management, and he busted the bank," a source said late Sunday. 
The Barings trader made huge bets on the direction of the Nikkei 225, the benchmark Japanese stock index, on the Singapore Mercantile Ex­change, the source said, speak­ing to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
A number of Nikkei futures and options contracts taken out by the Barings trader are still open, meaning that if the Japanese stock market falls, the losses at Barings will be greater. 
In Tokyo, the Nikkei average dropped 398.50 points, or 2.28 percent, to 17,074.44 in the first 30 minutes of trading Monday. The drop came in re­action to the news of Barings' troubles. Japanese traders said. 
Barings' soured investments also included derivatives con­tracts, the source said. Deriva­tives. financial instruments whose value is tied to underly­ing securities, also have played large roles in some financial troubles in the United States. 
The bankruptcy of Orange County, Calif.. was tied in part to investments in derivatives. Several losses by major U.S. companies also have been blamed on derivatives invest­ments gone bad. 
The Barings investment bank, founded in 1762, fi­nanced the Napoleonic wars and lists Queen Elizabeth II among its clients. 
Barings PLC also has a 40 percent stake in Dillon Head & Co., a New York-based invest­ment bank. 
The Barings trading losses have already outstripped the capital base of Barings PLC. 
Class Officers and Student Senate Elections today. 
Don't forget to vote 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 27, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



A few 
good friends 
1995 has not been all that great of year for me. My dog died in January, and the month of February has brought me one strange ail­ment after another. Yeah, everybody's dog dies some­time, but when you're pop­ping enough pills to stone the Suzy Fry greater Los Angeles area on Viewpoint Editor a daily basis, you know ______ you've got problems. But for some reason, those problems don't seem so enormous when you're surrounded by friends. 
It is so easy to get wrapped up in our little worlds of study and work and play to only remember our friends when its time to eat or drink or party. Sure, birthdays and other annu­al events are remembered and purported to be the proving ground for most friendships-but, for some reason. it never seems real. For many, friendship is evaluated by the amount o time spent laughing. 


When bad things happen, it is often by acci­dent that our friends know about them. But what's the use of a friend or anyone if they only know you by your Friday or Saturday night pP-r­sonality? Sharing more of yourself opens up the possibility of greater, more meaningful rela­tionships. 
To ignore this uniquely human capacity to share yourself and then grow from it, is to deny yourself the entire human experience. I'm not an expert or in any way qualified to explain these things, but I do know that the value of a friend depends on how much of yourself you share with them. 
This balance between the superficial and extraordinary always seems so precarious because some stupid, trite thing will come along and ruin the relationship. It amazes me how many wonderful friendships have gone-awry because of pettiness or miscommunication. 
It's interesting to note how the role of a friend evolves over the years, particularly these col­lege years. Friends are no longer on the periphery of life, but they occupy those deep, dark sometimes solemn places once reserved only for family. 
As an only child, these places are naturally limited. These people are special not because of their eliteness but because of their staying power and understanding. Accepting the fact that friends need one another is a tough lesson for some to learn, despite how obvious it is. 
It's not often we get the chance to step back and say thank you. I find it more than a little distressing that I had to feel like death-warmed­over in order to do this. So I guess this column is for all those people who visited me in the blue room, listened to me whine and complain, brought me funny books, gummy worms and Chinese food, put up with my cynicism, took my temperature, joined me in my obsession for the darkness, told me strange stories, listened to my strange stories, tolerated the barking, lizard tonguing and diatribes, watched Thelma with me, explained matrix management to me, made me do Janis, took me to the emergency room two hours before Pop Farley, gave me the couch, tucked me in. made my bed and brought me homework and socks, put up with the Smiths, Bob and Van Morrison, watched me turn green before them, moved the balloons around the room, and just kept me company. 
You guys know who you are. And this is your 
thank you. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF 
Sports 

News Man Casey 
Kristi Kolski Joe Villinski 
Melanie Laflin Production 
Viewpoint Kenya Johnson 
Suzy Fry David Diaz 
Lab Tech Accent 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

Chemical Fire Sends Chlorine Fumes Through Minneapolis 

many more left on their own, Deputy 
MINNEAPOLIS Fire Chief Richard Haugen said. 
A fire at a chemical supply company The chemical, similar to swimming spewed a noxious cloud of chlorine fumes pool chlorine, makes the eyes and into the air and forced several hundred mouth burn and can hinder breathing, people from their homes early Sunday. Deputy Chief Tom Deegan said. 
All residents but those living within four No serious injuries were reported. blocks of the blaze at Hawkins Chemical About 30 people reported to a fire sta-Co. were allowed to return home Sunday tion for help washing off the chemical afternoon after the fire died out. dust. Authorities had suggested that residents WISC. Firefighters decided to let the fire die within about a square-mile area should down on its own Saturday night leave their homes. because water could have caused an 
Overnight, clouds of black smoke hung S.D. explosion or spread the burning chemi­over the neighborhood, at times obscur-cal, Haugen said. ing street lights and buildings. ,,._.,.. Two of the first firefighters on the 
Residents had been urged to remain •·P IOWA scene sawed through a door to find a inside if their doors and windows were 100 km . room engulfed in flames. 
well-sealed, but told to leave quickly if .__.....___________. "We kicked open the door and in two 
they could smell the fumes. Officers used loudspeakers to instruct University of Minnesota students inside a housing complex to stay put. 
Authorities helped evacuate 200 to 300 people and 
seconds we could see we couldn't get it out," said a fire­fighter who would not give his name. Investigators were probing the cause of the fire in the one-story building. 
'Stone Diaries' named Best Fiction 
NEW YORK 
The National Book Critics Circle awarded its 1994 fic­tion prize Sunday to Carol Shields' "The Stone Diaries," a tender and witty portrait of an unassuming woman grow­ing old in the 20th century. The winner for general non­fiction was "The Rape of Europa: The Fate of Europe's Treasures in the Third Reich and the Second World War" by Lynn H. Nicholas. The book, published by Knopf, is a landmark study of the fate of Europe's paintings and other cultural treasures in Hitler's Germany. The organi­zation's poetry prize was awarded to Mark Rudman for "Rider" (Wesleyan University Press), a meditation on family connections and missteps. The biography award went to magazine writer Mikal Gilmore for "Shot in the Heart" (Doubleday), a personal narrative of his family's history of problems. He's the brother of murderer Gary Gilmore. who was executed by a firing squad in Utah in 1977. The National Book Critics Circle comprises about 600 newspaper and magazine editors and reviewers, aca­demics and free-lance critics. The winners were chosen by its 24-member board Saturday and announced Sunday. The awards will be formally presented March 23 at New York University Law School. The organization's criticism prize was awarded to college professor Gerald Early for "The Culture of Bruising: Essays on Prizefighting, Literature and Modern American Culture" (Ecco Press). Board member Art Winslow said Shields' novel. published by Viking, narrowly defeated William Gaddis' "A Frolic of His Own" (Poseidon), which won the National Book Award in November. 
Louganis admits to having AIDS 
CHICAGO 
Olympic gold medalist Greg Louganis told Oprah Winfrey that living secretly with AIDS was an "incredible burden," and he plans to spend the rest of his life "openly and honestly." In an appearance that airs Monday, Louganis also told of his diving board accident at the 1988 Olympics in Seoul, a rape at knifepoint and his numerous suicide attempts. "It's been so difficult with the secret, and asking people to keep the secrets," said Louganis, who revealed last summer he was homosexual and last week that he has AIDS. "I was feeling like a fake." Winfrey arranged for Louganis to meet the mother of Ryan White, the teen-ager who died of AIDS in 1990 after contracting it through a blood transfusion. The diver dedicated his new book "Breaking the Surface" to Ryan, whom he befriended several years ago. Jeanne White calls the gold medalist her "second son." 


Nearly 3 in 4 Americans Overweight 
NEW YORK 
Americans keep putting on the pounds, according to a new survey that says nearly three in four are overweight. The Harris Poll released Monday found that 71 percent of Americans age 25 and older are overweight, based on a national survey of 1,250 adults. That suggests a steady climb: Harris polls found 58 percent of Americans were overweight in 1983, 64 percent in 1990 and 69 percent last year. "It doesn't surprise me," Dr. JoAnn E. Manson, an endocrinologist at the Harvard School of Medicine, said Sunday. "Obesity is an alarming epidemic." Other studies have found that the average American has gained eight pounds in the past decade, and that 60 percent of Americans can be classified as sedentary, she said. "Everything is automated and very convenient and it's possible to spend very little energy in a typical day unless you go out of your way to exercise," Manson said. The new survey asked people to give their height without shoes and weight without clothing and to describe their body frame or bone structure. Louis Harris and Associates Inc. compared that information to Metropolitan Life insurance tables for recommended weight ranges. Doctors distinguish between overweight and obesity -a person generally isn't considered obese unless his or her weight is at least 20 percent higher than the recommended range. Being overweight is linked to health problems, including heart disease, stroke and some cancers. According to the survey 10 percent of Americans are at least 30 percent overweight and anoth­er 12 percent are between 20 and 30 percent overweight. 
Patients Stroll Amid Sounds of Shelling 
SHALl, Russia 
Mental patients strolled outside Shali Psychiatric Hospital in the winter sunshine as shellfire ripped up plumes of dust a mile behind the deadly front line divid­ing Russian and Chechen forces. Women in white over­alls, their heads shaved, sat on the concrete or wandered around the dilapidated hospital building just north of this town, oblivious to the explosions and bursts of machine­gun fire close by. The roof of a farm building across the road had been blown off. "Apart from a little local chari­ty, these people have nothing," said Lilya Musayeva, 42. a large, kindly Chechen woman who runs the clinic with her husband. She said a bread truck stopped at the hos­pital but there was little else for the 25 patients, who are mostly ethnic Russians and Ukrainians. It wasn't clear whether the Chechen patients were taken away by rela­tives. 
Monday, Feb. 27 Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather<~~>forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 27. 



PtBSSure 
H L @ ESl [I:!] 0 fZ] ~ -o-~ ~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Jen Rezeli Jenny Shank Shannon Forbes 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday r:hrough Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta  72 41  Dallas  73 52  New Orleans 73 45  
Baltimore  39 36  Denver  64 34  New York  30 19  
Boston  28 11  Los Angeles 71 57  Philadelphia 30 26  
Chicago  3228  Miami  74 68  Phoenix  76 54  
Columbus  74 32  Minneapolis  25 19  St. Louis  71 56  





ScoH 

Set1ers 
is 21/ 
Hote the BIG ONE is appier than the first, Scotti 
We love you, Mom, Dad, & Matthew 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 

Notre Dame Finance Club 
presents: 




FINANCE FOR~ 

.'.'.Mut.ual..F.un.ds.'.'. 
Jack A. Koltes 
Alliance Capital Management 

Michael C. Mewhinney 
Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss 

James G. Reilly 
Alliance Capital Managemem 
Tuesday February 28, 1995 7:00PM CCE -1st Floor Auditorium 
-ALL STUDENTS AND FACULTY ARE WELCOME-

Notre Dame Finance Club 
page 3 

G-7 conference promotes technological advances 
ByPAUL AMES 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS 

The world's seven richest nations pledged Sunday to work together for a technologi­cal revolution, despite trans-At­lantic differences over speed limits on the information su­perhighway. 
"G-7 partners are committed to playing a leading role in the development of the Global In­formation Society," the G-7 na­tions said in a statement adopt­ed at the end of their three-day conference on new technolo­gies. 
"Our action must contribute to the integration of all coun­tries into a global effort." 
But while the U.S. delegation urged a high-speed push to­wards a new information age, European officials urged cau­tion. They said application of new technologies -in global computer networks and telecommunications systems, for example -could put jobs and national traditions at risk. 
"The potential of the future information society is clear, but we must not be starry-eyed about it," said Padraig Flynn, the European Union's top social affairs official. "In its early phase it will almost certainly bring job losses." 
Industry leaders, invited for the first time to deliver their message to the governments of the G-7, disagreed. They in­sisted the new technologies would create new products and boost employment, and called on governments to open mar­kets, lift regulations and clear 

G7 conference 
The G7 information conference approved 11 pilot projects to promote international cooperation in using and developing 
1_1.~w t~_hnolo_gy: 
D Training and education. focusing on 
language teaching.fl Global network of electronic libraries. D Expanding electronic museums and 
galleries and increasing their availability to schools and the public.
D Developing world databases on environment and resource protection. Global network to share information 
Iii on the risks of natural disasters and emergency management. Health care applications, including
Ill long-distance medical diagnoses. Online exchanges between 0 governments. Making information more readily (J available to small businesses. Maritime information exchange
1iJ system to improve safety and environmental protection. An inventory of national and 
minternational projects and studies on the information society. Global/inks between the various high·
mspeed networks. 
AP the way for a global informa­tion exchange. 
The United States appeared ready to heed their advice. Vice President AI Gore said Saturday that limits on foreign invest­ment in American telecommu­nications would be lifted this year for countries that drop their own restrictions. 
All seven nations -the United States, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan -approved a package of 11 pilot projects for interna­tional cooperation in informa­tion technologies. 

last chance to prepare for the Spring tests 

1-800-KAP-TEST 

l.ut class beclns on: get • higher score Thursday, March 2 


KAPLAN 
Last chance to get a higherscore! 


Last class begins: Thursday, March 2 
TARGETED TRAINING lsthemost customized, flexible approach to GMAT study ever. 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST get a higher score 

KAPLAN 

last chance to prepare for the April test 

Call: 1-800-KAP-TES

Last class begins on: Wednesday, March 8 get a higher score 

KAPLAN 

~·----~--­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, February 27, 1995 
Studebaker 
continued from page 1 
along the "Rust Belt," Peck said. Companies that special­ized in manufacturing steel, steel products or automobile parts closed their doors or moved their operations over­seas or to other parts of the country. 
Studebaker was one of the first major Rust Belt losses, which actually worked to South Bend's advantage, Peck said. Before the automaker even left, city officials were recruiting companies that could employ the displaced Studebaker work­ers. 
The recruitment effort was so successful it took just one year for employment levels to return to what they had been when Studebaker was in business, said Peck, who also heads IUSB's Bureau of Business and Economic Research. 
"If you're going to experience the loss of a major employer, you'd like to experience it be-


Rita 
continued from page 1 
Asher said that the prosecu­
tion deprived the defense of 
chances to examine and test 
the windshield as they attempt­
ed to preserve it. While Asher 
stopped short of accusing the 
prosecution of withholding evi­
dence, he did say they made a 
"mistake of judgment." 
Notre Dame mechanical en­
gineering professor Raymond 
Brach testified that the wind­
shield of the Honda Accord is 
constructed so as to shatter 
into extremely small pieces on 
impact. Most of the pieces 
from Rita's car were 1/8 of an 
inch or smaller, Brach said. 
Barnes said the prosecution 
tried to preserve the wind­
shield in the best manner 
available. Any damage that 
occurred after the windshield 
was removed from the car was 
minute, he said. 
The prosecutor's office stored 
the windshield in a large box, 
and later put it in the frame of 
a similar Honda Accord so the 
defense could run its tests. 
Glass experts testified at the 
trial that the windshield could 
not be safely reinstalled into a 
driveable car. 
Barnes asked Albright to 
amend the charge so it states 
that Rita failed to stop to stop 
at the crash scene and "to re­
turn" to asses the situation. 
Albright, who denied similar 
motions at the first trial, said 
he would consider the matter. 
The South Bend Tribune's Marti Heline contributed to this report. 


fore (other cities)," Peck said. "This happened to us in the '60s, it continued through the '70s and '80s and into the '90s. We've had some practice at it." 
South Bend has kept up its aggressive recruiting, allowing the city to make a smooth tran­sition from manufacturing to professional and service indus­tries -unlike many other Rust Belt casualties. While manufac­turing jobs have declined, the number of non-manufacturing jobs increased by 26 percent from 1986 to October 1994, Peck said. 
From 1980 to 1994, private companies or foundations in­vested $210 million in the city, and the government added another $4 7 million. There also was 2.7 million square feet of new construction or rehabilita­tion. 
The manufacturing compa­nies that closed their doors have been quickly replaced. Teachers Credit Union moved its corporate headquarters to the downtown in the mid­1980s, and 1st Source Bank took space in the Marriott ho­teVoffice complex that has a view of the St. Joseph River. 
"I think a lot of cities put off the problem and it took them longer to get started," said Carter Wolf, executive director of Center City Associates, a downtown economic develop­ment organization. "We have a history of local people chipping in and taking care of their problems." 
South Bend officials have also promoted development in other parts of the city, including the Blackthorn Development Area, a commercial-industrial com­plex near the airport on the city's northwest side. But offi­cials recognize the downtown will always be a major part of South Bend's economy, even without the manufacturing firms, Hunt said. 
"The health and strength of the downtown is still important on a reality level and a percep­tion," he said. "People that make judgements about com­munities ... and where they want to make investments look at the quality of the downtown area." 
If you see News happening, call The Observer. 


Victim's relatives upset with American Eagal 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

As officials gather here to discuss the deadly crash of American Eagle Flight 4184 last October, some victims' rel­atives say they are unhappy with how they've been treated by the airline. 
"The amount of information that has been withheld from us is absolutely unfair and gross," said Toni MacDonald, whose husband John J. MacDonald died in the Oct. 31 crash. "We have been treated like ani­mals." 
Toni MacDonald and Janie Stansberry, whose son Bradley also died on Flight 4184, say they believe American Eagle, and its parent company Ameri­can Airlines, withheld informa­tion about a mass burial of unidentified body parts. 
They also say the airline has misled them about when, or if, the passengers' personal ef­fects would be returned. 
American Eagle spokesman Marty Heires believes the air­line did the best it could. 
"We activated almost 500 people to assist the families, to do everything we could to make this a little bit easier for them." 
Heires also noted the com­pany had received more than 30 letters from families prais­ing the company. 
National Transportation Safety Board Officials will meet Monday in Indianapolis to dis­cuss the crash of Flight 4184 in northwest Indiana, which killed all 68 on board. 
Stansberry says her problem with getting information start­ed the moment she and her husband learned of the crash. 
Their son, who worked for Delco Electronics, had just left on the first leg of his journey to Germany. 
"I am cutting up salad and my husband is in the other room and he is screaming, 'My God, Janie.' Bradley's plane crashed!'" 
They spent the rest of the night in their Anderson home waiting for information, trying to call a hotline number. 
"We called the number all night -we got music all night," she recalled. 

P R INC I P L E S of S 0 UN D RETIREMENT INVESTING 

F 
or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, 
we recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are 
tax-deferred annuities designed to help build 
additional assets-money that can help make the 
difference between living and living we!f after your 
working years are over. 

Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from 
your salary on a pre-tax basis. That lowers your 
current taxable income, so you start saving on taxes 
right away. What's more, any earnings on your 
SRAs are also tax-deferred until you receive them 
as income. That can make a big difference in how 
painful your tax bill is every year. 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 


As the nation's largest retirement system, we offer a wide range of allocation choices-from TIM's traditional annuity, with its guarantees of principal and interest, to the seven diversified investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity. What's more, our expenses are very low, 0 which means more ofyour money goes toward improving your future financial health. 
To find out more, call our planning specialists at 1 800 8-42-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA information kit, plus a free slide-calculator that shows you how much SRAs can lower your taxes. 
Call today-it couldn't hurt. 

0 Simu}my} d p,,,,.;,Ju.mrtmc( Rllllil_tl Anti~VJi.l, 1994; Lipper Analytical SeiVices, Inc., L£pptr-/Jirr:ctor/ Ana(vtical /Jt~/tl, 1994 (Quarterly). CREF certi1icates are distributed by TIAA-CRE.F Individual and lnstitutiona1 Services, Inc. For more complete information. including charges and expenses, call I 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 for a CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 

---------·---~-~__,~~-----·--' 
Monday, February 27, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Americans wary of trade agreement 

Croatia threatens to enter war if Serbians do not compromise 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration on Sunday hailed a last-minute agreement with China to avert a trade war between the two nations as a victory for U.S. ex­porters. But American busi­nesses said the real benefits will come only if China enforces the deal. 
President Clinton said the agreement by the Chinese. would eliminate rampant pira­cy that has cost Americans thousands of jobs and over $1 billion in high-value exports in such key U.S. industries as computer software, pharma­ceuticals, chemicals, books, music and films. 
"This is a strong agreement for American companies and American workers," Clinton said in a written statement. 
Because of the deal, U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said the United States 


1995 Transfer Orientation 
was withdrawing trade sanc­tions which would have im­posed punitive, 100 percent tariffs on $1.08 billion of Chi­nese products. 
Scheduled to take effect Sunday, they were the largest potential trade sanctions in U.S. history. 
The United States suffered a $29.5 billion trade deficit with China last year, up 30 percent from the previous year and sec­ond only to America's deficit with Japan. 
For this reason, the adminis­tration views it as critical that China not only halt copyright piracy but also go much further to lower trade barriers to U.S. manufactured goods and farm products. 
Kantor was flanked at a Washington news conference by more than a dozen repre­sentatives of American compa­nies who have pushed the ad­ministration to take a tough line in the negotiations because of their losses from copyright piracy. 
"This is not the end. It is a beginning," said Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association. 
"Piracy must be rooted out and a climate established that is congenial to creators of intellectual property," he said. 
Robert Holleyman, president of the Business Software Al­liance, said his industry views the agreement as critical be­cause the rate of software pira­cy in China exceeds 98 percent. 
"Although not a quick and easy remedy, the agreement reached today is an important milestone for all industries that rely on the protection of intel­lectual property," he said. 
Rep. Phil Crane, H-Ill., the head of the House Ways and Means trade subcommittee, voiced support for the deal but said Congress will be closely monitoring enforcement by the Chinese. 
By JASMINA KUZMANOVIC 

Associated Press 
ZAGREB 

A close aide to Croatia's president hinted strongly at the possibility of war, while United Nations peacekeepers in neigh­boring Bosnia faced obstruc­tion Sunday from both the Muslim-led government and Serbs. 
In an interview published in the Vecernji List daily newspa­per, Miomir Zuzul, Croatia's ambassador to the United Na­tions in Geneva, said the only real chance for peace in Croatia lies in rebel Serbs' acceptance of reintegration into Croatia -which they have repeatedly rejected. 

If the Serbs do not accept Za­greb's rule, Zuzul said, "Croatia could do what every sovereign country has the right to do in its territory ... and af­ford normal life to the majority of its population." 
r --LunchSpecial--,r -HilEYNine7/tt; -, r -TateNightSPeciai -, r --o;';t4"'La;ue--,
Houns: 

I 1-10" Small II 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I O~ne Topping I
695 

I 2Topping Pizza II Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I I I I with 1can of Coke II s950 I I 1 Topping Pizza I I T~ 14" Large I
Frilay &Salllllay 11 :00 am. -3:00 a.m 

I $595.~. II I I $59.~ I I one Topping I 
Smlay Nom -1:00 am. 

I -II ~ I I -I I $11 9~ I
.._._______ ._. _______........_______ .._. _______
I Mdiliolla/TOI¥linl!s95clliCh.Not..m!Mihi11YDtiletciiUfJOII..J I -ITIJ{JfJin(Js$1.n..,h.Not>IIMMIIIIIIYDiilllfCDUIJIIIL I I -/Toppin(Js95cuch.NotrlllidMthlllyDiilllfCDUIJIIII..J I Alkklioo8ITDfJPit>gs95clllc/J.Not..tit!MIIIMryDtiletcoopan..J 
Monday, February 27, 1995 

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Fighting begins in Somalia as U.N. troops withdrawal 
By REID G. MILLER 
Associated Press 
MOGADISHU 
Rival clans battled each other with mortars, machine guns and light arms near Mo­gadishu's airport Sunday in a possible preview of Somalia's future after the departure of 
U.N. peacekeepers. 
With a U.S.-led military coali­tion poised just offshore, the fighting also offered a taste of what American and Italian Marines might face in the com­ing days as they guard the withdrawal of the last U.N. sol­diers. 
About 50 U.S. Army special forces soldiers already are ashore to help the remaining Pakistani and Bangladeshi troops complete preparations to leave under the coalition shield. 
"This is the heaviest fighting since the second day after we got here," said Capt. Joe Bovy of Arlington, Va., as he watched the battle from a heavily sandbagged bunker atop an abandoned three-story building inside the airport. 
"This is a prelude," said Staff Sgt. Matt Mutarelli of Philadelphia, who came to Mogadishu with Bovy and other special forces soldiers on Feb. 8. "We've been expecting this." 
A stray mortar shell exploded on the airport tarmac only a few hundred yards from one of two chartered Boeing 747s that arrived Sunday to ferry 920 Pakistani troops back to Islam­abad, the Pakistani capital. 
Somali factions have jock­eyed for months for strategic positions near the air and sea ports -expected to be the focus of fierce fighting once the last peacekeeper leaves. 
Another stray shell, either a mortar or rocket-propelled grenade, impacted near the temporary office of the United Nations' special envoy to Somalia. No injuries were reported from either explosion. 
Stray bullets had American and Pakistani troops and U.N. civilians ducking and staying under cover a good part of the day, but the only injury was to a Somali policeman, who was not believed seriously wound­ed. 
At least one Somali clansman was killed in the fighting that erupted just outside the air­port's main gate, and the level of fighting suggested there probably were more casualties. 
"An old sergeant major told me you got to watch out for these guys because they can't shoot too good but they shoot a lot," Mutarelli said. "They have no qualms about squeez­ing the trigger on anyone." 


Mutarelli said the clans fought on "technicals," small trucks mounted with guns and anti-aircraft weapons. 
The Dutch humanitarian group Memisa -one of the very few aid groups still operating in the anarchic coun­try -said Sunday that one of its aid workers was shot and seriously wounded in a south­west Somali town. A Somali worker for the group was also hit by a bullet. 
The shooting occurred Satur­day when eight gunmen burst into the group's offices in Garba Harre, near Kenya's border, where the group ran a hospital. 
More than 350,000 people died from disease, starvation and clan warfare before a U.S.­led coalition force arrived in Somalia in December 1992, stopped the looting of relief supplies and began moving food to the needy. The United States turned the humanitarian mission over to the United Na­tions in March 1993. 
Hundreds of Somalis and more than 120 U.N. troops, in­cluding 42 Americans, were killed during the U.N. mission. Now that mission is coming to an end. 
The United States has assem­bled a seven-nation force of 33 ships, some 24,000 men and women -more than half of them Americans -and about 80 aircraft, including AC-130 gunships, Cobra helicopters and Harrier fighter jets. 
About 2,000 American and Italian Marines will come ashore in the next few days to form a rear guard for the re­maining 2,400 Pakistani and Bangladeshi peacekeepers, the last remnant of a U.N. force that once numbered more than 30,000. 
The exact date and time the operation will begin is being kept secret. 


Sinn Fein enters negotiations 
By SHAWN POGATCHNIK 
Associated Press 
DUBLIN 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams on Sunday demanded a meeting with British Prime Minister John Major as the next step in Northern Ireland's peace process. 
Adams told reporters at the end of the party's two-day con­ference at Dublin's Mansion House that he expected Sinn Fein -the IRA's political ally -to be allowed to enter negotiations "just like any other Irish political party." 
Adams noted that leaders of 
all other parties have had pri­
vate meetings with Major. 
Civil servants from Britain's 
Northern Ireland Office began 
preliminary talks with the 
Catholic-based party in mid-De­
cember, 100 days after the 
Irish Republican Army's Sept. 1 
cease-fire. 
Last week, Major and Irish 
1994-95 PAUL 
Prime Minister John Bruton unveiled a "framework docu­ment" outlining a possible political settlement for the British-ruled province. The document suggests establishing government bodies to coordi­nate policy between the British­ruled north and independent south. 
Pro-British Protestant politi­cians have criticized the plans while Sinn Fein has welcomed them as indicating British pref­erence for the gradual reunifi­cation of Ireland. 
Sir Patrick Mayhew, Britain's chief official in Northern Ire­land, told the British Broadcasting Corp. that Sinn Fein must secure a commit­ment from the IRA to hand in its weapons. 
"If somebody comes to the negotiating table with other constitutional parties but is known to have Semtex (plastic explosive), ground-to-air mis­siles, heavy machine guns, 
M. AND BARBARA 
VISITING SCHOLARS SERIES 
COLLEGE 6F ARTS AND LETTERS ~z~ UN IVE R 5 ITY 0 F NOTRE DAME 
Masculinity in the 1990s 
co-sponsoreq by: Departments of American Studies, Anthropology, Government, and Sociology; Concentration in Gender Studies; Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Multicultural Executive Council 
All lectures will be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 4:00 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 1  Dr. J. William Gibson  
Department of Sociology, California State University-Long Beach  
"The Military and Masculinity"  
For more information:  The Henkels Visiting Scholars Series is a program of the College of Arts and Letters,  
Prof. Joan Aldous  Un~ty ofNotre Damt, and is made possible by a~ endowment pror:ided by  
Department ofSociology  Paul M. and Barbara Henkels.  
Uniuasity ofNotre Damt  
Notre Dame, IndU!na 46556 (219) 631-5281  College ofArts and Letters  
•  University of Notre Dame  

3"arley 2-lall ::Players Present: 
Euripides' 




Medea 

mortars and so on, the implica­tion is absolutely inescapable that they are prepared to resort to former violence if they don't get what they want," Mayhew said. 
He said there was no hope of getting Northern Ireland's pro­British "unionist" politicians from the Protestant majority to sit down with Sinn Fein as long as the IRA retains its capacity to attack. 
But Sinn Fein leaders made 
clear Sunday that the next 
meeting with British civil ser­
vants would be their last, and 
that they wanted to discuss the 
Anglo-Irish peace proposals 
with Major and Mayhew di­
rectly. 
"The time for hiding behind 
their civil servants has gone," 
said Martin McGuinness, Sinn 
Fein's No. 2 official and leader 
of its negotiating team. 
McGuinness also dismissed 
the British demand for the IRA 
to disarm. 
HENKELS 


New Translation bU Brendan Kennellu 
At the Lon in Lafortune 
Performances begin at 8:00pm on: Saturday, February 25th Sunday, February 26th Monday, February 27th 
Tickets are $4.00 --Available at the Lafortune Information Desk 
---------~---­


CAMPUSES 
Monday, February 27, 1995 page 7 
ASU students challenge Hooters 
By MARCY DINIUS 
Campuses Editor 
Charging that the Hooters restaurant chain "objectifies women" and "promotes an atti­tude women that is inappropri­ate for a college community" and the dty of Tempe, students at Arizona State University have launched a campaign to convince the city council to deny the restaurant's request for a liquor license. 
The student group Ethics in Action, which formed in August, 1994 to oppose the opening of the popular chain restaurant near campus, pre­sented to the council over 20 letters in opposition to the granting of a liquor license to the restaurant. 
Also submitted were copies of a Hooters menu and calen­dar and articles from Forbes and Hestaurant Business mag­azines describing some of the restaurant's recent problems as part of its argument against the restaurant. 

Members of the organization question the appropriateness of the image that the Hooters chain presents as being a fam­ily restaurant while maintain­ing the "Hooters girls" as sug-. gestively-dressed waitresses. 
"The Hooters environment is inappropriate for downtown because the City of Tempe is an area where business people, families and students come," said Ethics in Action President Margaret Ebert. "Although they claim to be a 'family' restaurant, it is not a place where any healthy parents would take their children. 
Yet Joe Wilson, Hooters re­gional manager responded, "Come in here any weekend, and you will see 13 or 14 high chairs in the restaurant," argu­ing that the restaurant has been unfairly singled out and that it does not objectify women. 
"There are a lot of resorts out there where cocktail waitresses 
Virginia offers student spring break alternatives 
By MARCY DINIUS Campuses Editor 
Instead of traveling to sunny vacation spots for their spring break like many of their class­mates will. nearly 120 students al the University of Virginia will take part in the school's Alternative Spring Break pro­gram during which the partici­pants will travel to either Appalachia, a Native American rnservation, a Mexican town or othr.r sites to help the disad­vantaged. 
Almost another 200 students will participate in the universi­ty's Extern Program to experi­IHlCfl a week of non-paid work in the field of their choice. 
Work in the service project will include renovating homes, rr.pairing clinics, creating gar­dens, working in soup kitchens, tutoring and working in day­care. 
Since its inception five years ago, the program has seen the number of participants' volun­teer hours rise from 1344 to 13,481 total hours. Originally, the program included 20 stu­dnnts serving at two volunteer sites, yet this year students can work at one of 10 different sites, including ones in Belize and Mexico. 

Recently, the national stu­dent volunteer organization BreakAway donated a $1500 grant to the university to aid students in paying for their travel, lodging, and food costs for which they are responsible during the trip. 
The extern program at the university is the largest one of its kind in the country, offering nearly 12,000 students the opportunity to explore careers in many diverse fields and employers the chance to screen potential future employees while receiving a week of free work from the students. 
Available during winter, spring, and summer breaks, the program is open to sopho­mores through graduate stu­dents who often work for spon­sors at firms who began work­ing at the sites as externs themselves. 
Preferred destinations for students are Washington, D.C.; Richmond, VA; and New York City, with the most popular fields of investigation being law, finance, and medicine. 
Stanford debates need for language, writing courses 
By MARCY DINIUS l.ampuses Ediror 
The Faculty Senate at Stanford University passed a resolution that will require all students to take a writing­intensive course in their major as well as additional foreign language courses upon 1~ntrancr. at tlw university. 
Opponents to this nr.w re­quirmnent argued that science majors would not benefit from writing-intensive classes that would have little to do with majors such as chemistry and mathematics. Several science faculty members suggested that engineering and science students should not have to take foreign language courses 

since their graduation re­quirements are already strin­gent. 
The new writing require­ments are scheduled to be im­plemented for the 1996-97 freshman class but with contin­uing debate, there is the possi­bility that they could be post­poned or even abandoned. 
In fulfilling the school's for­eign language requirement, students previously were re­quired to take the equivalent of one year of a college-level for­eign language course, with many students fulfilling the re­quirement while still in high school. Under the new re­quirements which have already been approved, this option will be eliminated. 
wear a lot less. Go to a mall­another example. People are dressed in far less clothing than our staff," Wilson stated. 
Yet the Atlanta-based chain has encountered several class­action suits recently, among which was a sexual harassment suit filed by six former female employees. Also, protesters have demonstrated against the chain's Mall of America restau­rant in Minneapolis. 
Though such problems will serve as part of the student group's case against the restaurant, both faculty advisor Bob Pappalardo and Ebert doubt that their cause will be successful in blocking the granting of a liquor license. 
"Hooters has a lot of money and a lot of lawyers," said Ebert. "Winning will depend on the turnout at the hearing, but I honestly don't know if we will win." 
-Information from the Arizona State Press was included in this article. 
OSUworksto revitalize off campus areas 
By MARCY DINIUS Campuses Editor 
In an effort to revitalize the community surrounding Ohio State University, the Campus Partners for Community Urban Redevelopment have joined with the local AFL-CIO Housing trust, the city of Columbus and neighborhood groups to begin the redevelopment of declining neighborhoods, many of which support a large number of off­campus students. 
The university has decided to take part in the operation as a result of the negative image that student recruits and their families would have upon arriving at the campus. The area included a near-by strip bar and a high crime rate that made students think twice about coming to the university. 
"When prospective students and their parents come [to the university,] you want them not to be overly concerned about the safety and welfare of their young people living in the neighborhoods around the uni­versity, " said Campus Partners Director Steve Sterrett to the Lantern, the Ohio State student newspaper. 
"If you begin to deal with the issues of safety in the area, it makes the area more attractive for people wanting to live there and it makes landlords more interested in investing money in their property," Sterrett said. 
Community issues such as housing, crime, safety, traffic, and parking will be addressed jointly by the university and a community advisory council, while the Campus Partners group hopes to have developed a plan of action to present for approval to the Columbus City Council by the end of the spring quarter. 
-Alyson Borgdering of the Ohio State Lantern contributed to this article. 
• 
'Talk Outs' at Auburn aid dialogue 
At Auburn University, the President's Committee on the Status of Women a.ud Minorities wlll sponsor a series of "Talk Outs" to increase communication about issues that affect women and minorities on the campus. 
According to Evelyn Crayton, co-chair of the committee, its purpose was to "examine the issues that affect the advancement of woman and minorities." 
To accomplish this, two open forums will be held to express concerns or ideas about women and minorities. to "measure the campus pulse on these issues," and that the "information shared in the sessions will be confidential-that is, no one will be asked their names or departments.'' explained Ida Reed, a committee member who will moderate the sessions. It Is believed and hoped that with this anonymity, "people will feel free to talk." 
After the talks, the committee will report to AU President William V. Muse about those issues viewed most significantly affecting women and minorities. 
Looking for the Brady Bunch at Ball State 
With the recent release of the Brady Bunch movie based on the popular television show, the University Program Board at Ball State University in Muncie, Ind. sponsored a "Brady Bunch" look­alike contest last week in anticipation of the arrival of the Barry Williams, the actor who originally played Greg Brady on the tele­vision series who will be speaking on campus. 
One student, freshman Ben Murray posed as Greg Brady for the contest, borrowing a 1970's style polyester shirt, pair of bell­bottom pants, and belt from his father for the occasion and mem­orizing lines from the show for added effect. 
The contest winner will have the opportunity to meet Barry Williams back stage after his March presentation about his book "Growing Up Brady." 
World's rarest plant studied at Berkeley 
As part of the work required in her Conservation and Resource Studies minor at University of California, Berkeley, student Shannah Anderson has been allowed to do research on the last Raven's manzanita plant left on Earth. 
The extremely-endangered plant is located in the Presidio area of San Francisco, but its exact location is kept a secret in an effort to protect it from possible harm by curious spectators. 
Anderson has been received permission from the National Park Service to observe the plant in a study of the restoration of its habitat, the encroachment of surrounding plants, and the preser· vation and cloning efforts as part of her research. 


Alabama stays mascot­less after several failures 
By KATHY HAUSMANN 
Assistant Campuses Editor 
The University of Alabama at Birmingham has been without a mascot since September 1993. UAB has accepted and rejected four mascots since intercollegiate athletics were established in 1978. 
Back issues of UAB's Kaleidoscope magazine docu­ment changes across the cam­pus, and the conflicting opin­ions about the mascot is one change that appears never to stop changing. 
In a 1978 edition of the Kaleidoscope, Robert Baily re­ported that "Blazers" won out over four other choices for a mascot in a campus-wide vote of 2600 people, receiving more than fifty percent of the votes, and with the suggestions of Barons, Titans, and Warriors rounding out the field. 
One reason that the Blazers might have failed being a successful mascot is because few people even know what a Blazer is. 
UAB then unmasked its next attempt during the first UAB basketball season. The mascot, a hot pink dragon, disappeared in a puff of smoke before the season was over after the fans referred to it as "hideous." 
UAB's next attempt was Beauregard T. Hooster, a spunky fowl to keep the teams' spirits high. Unfortunately, Beauregard was "defeathercd" in 1992 because he "didn't pre­sent a masculine image for the football team," after the team joined the NCAA in 1991. 
After student recommenda­tions the winner was the "Blazer Warrior." 
The new mascot was unveiled at the Blazer-Marquette bas­ketball game after almost a year after the final decision was made. As the muscular. Viking-style warrior, complete with a helmet, shield, and sword, swaggered onto the court, he was greeted by both laughs and boos from the ncar­sellout crowd, and small chil­dren shrieked at the sight of his oversized head. 
Eight months later, Blaze's mascot career was over. Andy March, associate dean of stu­dent affairs explained that "the mascot was not representative of the University as a whole, because Blaze resembled a male human and appeared to be Caucasian, some people were dissatisfied." 
UAB has since then remained mascotless, and according to university officials, there are no plans at this time to bring in another attempt. 
Tim Stephens of the UAB Kaleidoscope contributed to this article. 


-~--·---~----------­


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, February 27, 1995 
• WINTER OF MY DtSCOMTENT 

Politics hard to swallow? Try a primary panacea 
•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
MR. 5P&AKER,COUW YOU ti.ABORA7F; CW 'IWR Pt.AN FOR ABOL./9HIN6 HIGH 5(}{00/.,IJAT/N6?  tOOK., /A/HAT I SAID~ THAT FOURYCA~ OF HIGH 5CHOt:Jl-FReQ/£NT/.,Y AMOUN773 TO 5/JB~Illlzell /lATING! GeTIT R/6HT FOR A CHANGC.1 ~ ~  

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
''High school is closer to 
the core of the American experience than any­thing else I can think of." 
-Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. 
Our Time is Now: Notes from the High School Underground 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suz.anne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. ] acqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary'!t College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objeC£ively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor. and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all re-aders. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
LISHEN, PAL,ICAN QUIT 
A~YTIME 
I WANT. 
As an unrepentant neo-conservative and a loyal partisan of the GOP, this past Wednesday's speech at Stepan Center by former HUD Secretary Jack Kemp had a somewhat bitter-sweet quality to it. My excitement at seeing one of America's most admired political ligures and per­haps the most dynamic conservative thinker in the Republican Party was unfortunately tempered by the knowl­edge that Kemp had only weeks earlier announced in no uncertain terms that 


Chris Kratovil 

he would not be seeking the presidency in 1996. Kemp's energetic and well­received talk -the near-full house gave him a standing ovation-did nothing to dispel my disappointment at his decision not to try for the nation's highest office. The former Bills' quarterback's descrip­tion of the nomination process and the related fund raising activities as "grotesque" should serve as a warning to both parties that the primary system is in desperate need of reform. 
The fact that Jack Kemp is far from alone in bowing out of the coming presidential race lends much credence to this warning. Such Republican stal­warts as William Bennett, James A. Baker III, Howard Baker, Dick Cheney and even Dan Quayle have all taken their names out of consideration for the 1996 race for the White House for rea­sons similar to those cited by Mr. Kemp. Furthermore, a number of other high profile potential candidates ranging from General Colin Powell to California Governor Pete Wilson seem to be tacitly leaning towards not running, as evi­denced by their failure to form "exploratory committees" or to initiate fund raising activities. The relatively small number of announced Republican candidates (the "big three" being Senators Bob Dole and Phil Gramm and former Tennessee Governor Lamar Alexander) is particularly surprising in light of the weaknesses and general unpopularity of the Democrat incum­bent. For now, the conventional wisdom seems to be that '96 is shaping to be a continuation of this past fall's "Republican Revolution." If this trend towards a void of viable candidates con­tinues (although I do concede that it is still very early in the political season), then the entire presidential nominating system used by both Republicans and Democrats needs a serious reevaluation. Last Thursday in my hometown of Dallas, Senator Phil Gramm held the largest political fund raiser in American history. The Senior Senator from Texas held a "dinner" at the Dallas Convention Center which was attended by between ten and twenty thousand people (depending on which news report you read). It raised over 4.1 million dollars for his presidential bid. Impressive as this may sound, that money is less than a quarter of what he expects to spend over the course of coming primaries. 
In essence, a twenty million dollar "cover charge" to participate in presi­dential process now exists. The Gramm campaign's effort to raise "50,000 a day, seven days a week for the next year" puts the magnitude of this "entry fee" in context. The incredible effort requisite in generating those sorts of funds simply scares off a lot of candidates; Kemp, in fact, cited his unwillingness to spend "80 percent of my time on the phone" beg­ging for money as a central factor in his absence from presidential politics. 
The next aspect of the primary process that intimidates many possible candidates is its extreme length. We are still almost a year away from the first primary election, New Hampshire's, and twenty-three full months from the Inauguration. However, already a story or two on the activities of the candidates is almost a daily feature in most major newspapers. Fund raising and flesh pressing in the early primary states is already in full swing. In other words, a full blown presidential campaign runs well over two years in duration. Obviously, this makes a bid for the Oval Office all the more difficult since all the would-be presidents must recognize their desire to run almost as soon as the previous campaign ends. 
Further, many of the potential candi­dates are already in high state or feder­al offices to which they are rightly obli­gated to dedicate the majority of their time. Mario Cuomo used to argue that a sitting governor could not in good faith simultaneously fully serve his state and run for president. Despite the recent counter example of Bill "Misbegotten Ambition Personified" Clinton, I tend to agree with former Governor Cuomo and would in fact extend his contention to cover active cabinet officers as well. I don't know about you, but I rather pre­fer the idea federal department heads 
'Idon't know about you, but I 
rather prefer the idea federal department heads and state governors are performing their current jobs rather than tramp­ing around Iowa and New Hampshire looking for babies to kiss.' 
and state governors are performing their current jobs rather than tramping around Iowa and New Hampshire look­ing for babies to kiss. 
A third element that is working to keep the 1996 candidate field so limited is the overall viciousness of the modern primary process. Both the media and the opposing members of one's own party are utterly ruthless in their investigations of people's private back­grounds and in initiating personal attacks. The current conventional wis­dom is that you shouldn't run for presi­dent if you have any "skeletons in the closet" unless you are intent on joining Gary Hart and Tom Eagelton (it was Tom, wasn't it?) in ignominious ob­scurity. Some damage to intra-party unity is inevitable in the primary process, but the addition of this relative­ly new personal dimension greatly raises the risk of long term hostility. 
To put it simply, the current primary system is too expensive, too long, too grueling, and too invasive. Many worthy individuals, who would at a minimum enrich the level of political dialogue through their ideas and convictions, are not willing to subject themselves and their families to this prolonged and degrading march towards the White House. Thus the entire country, Republican and Democrat alike, is deprived, and our political system is weakened. 
What a sorry statement about Ameri­can politics when qualified and patriotic public officials are unwillingly to seek our highest office out of the fear that this quest will destroy them. Numerous proposals for the reformation of the pri­mary system are floating around, rang­ing from doing away with state-by-state elections in favor of a single national primary to putting time and spending limits on the campaign for the nomina­tion. In light of the unfortunate state of the 1996 field, the time has come to give these reform initiatives serious con­sideration. Until such time as this reform occurs. our choice of potential presidential candidates will remain sub­standard as men of vision like Jack Kemp continue to remove themselves from the picture. 
Christopher Kratovil's column appears every other Monday. He can be reached via e-mail at Christopher. D.Kratovil.l@nd. edu 







ACCENT 
Monday, l~ebruary 27, 1995 page 9 
The Armchair Shopper 
By HEATHER GORMAN 
Accenl Wri1er 
It's two wtwks until spring break and you·n~ planning on spnnding a fun lillnd wt~ek at tlw beach or the ski slopns partying. It will be nice to finally SIH~ the ground and escape thn wintnr doldrums typical of South B1~nd, Indiana. 
Unfortunately, thnrp's just one problmn. You have absolutely noth­ing to wear during all your fun in the sun except perhaps a wool sw1mtt~r which just will not do for an nxcursion at the beach. You are forced to try shopping by mail until you havn found the items that suit your spring brnak ntwds. Although catalogue shopping may seem like an nasy task. it ran cause headaches and a gmat deal of frustration if you are an amateur at the process. In that n~gard, here are some helpful hints to make your shopping by phone just a little easier. 

Victoria's Secret 1-800-666-0268 Solid color sweat shirts $29 Socks $5 
Delivery time varies according to price. 
Victoria Seeret, which is almost a univnrsal favorite among both sexes, has been a renown and trendy sup­plit~r for years. Although they have lwconw famous for their lingerie, tlwy have also cornered the market on snxy yet comfortable springtime apparPI. Their sun dresses and slip dn~ssns have lwen on thn market fonw1~r but this year they have added a preppy yet sexy twist to tlwir dnsigns. The little polka dot slipdn~ss comes in an array of colors including navy, red, and black is pnrfPd for thn casual summer time look you are seeking and it won't fon~~~ you into bankruptry either. Tlwn• are also casual rompers­gnmt for a latn night rendez -vous­in three different floral prints. They snll for the seemingly low price of forty-nirw dollars but honestly, the polka dot slipdress is a lot more llaterring to the eye. 
Victoria's Secret has designed a simple yet flattering tankdress that 
J.~W 
,:'.< ,'}
' "''. ~ 
•(.·'I 
J. Crew 1-800-562-0258 

Solid color sweat shirt $24 Socks $8 
2-8 days for delivery 


can function as dinner or beach wear. You can get two tankdresses for fifty bucks. This is a common marketing ploy of Victoria's Secret. and one you might want to watch out for. Before you know it, you've got two of everything, plus a bill you won't be able to pay for another two years! 
Victoria Secret offers some of the best and most popular swimsuits around, in every price range. Prices start at around $39. Some suits are expensive as $89. Coverups and wrap around skirts can be bought to complement these ensembles from $45.00 to $89.00. But once again watch it! Everything adds up and try to stay within your budget. 
Ann Taylor provides a preppy and sophisticated feminine flair to spring attire, but ordering from this cata­logue could definitely wreck your financial situation. According to Cosmopolitan, the polo dress ranks as a "must have" this season. Ann Taylor's rendition costs a mere $108! Other sundresses such as the simple denim and polka dot rayon range from $98 to $108 respectively. 
Needless to say, the price of the popular Anne Taylor business suit could wreak havoc on any college budget. Otherwise. while this cata­logue displays breathtaking new trends in the fashion world, it will also leave you with a devastating bill. There are a couple of good deals to be discovered though, it's just a matter of finding them. 
Maybe you are not going to the beach but have decided to spend your spring break in the mountains of Colorado skiing or hiking on the Appalachian Trail instead. L.L. Bean is the place to call. They've become an extremely popular choice for cold weather apparel. One item that is sure to catch anyone's eye is the modestly priced, popular L.L. Bean flannel. The soft, yet durable 
L.L. 
Bean flannel can liven up any bland turtle neck. It comes in an assortment of plaids and is perfect for sitting around the fire in the ski lodge while talking with friends. The nannel is priced modestly at $25.00 to $29.00 depending on the size. Watch out though, the larger the size of the clothing, the higher the price. 

L.L. 
Bean's Waffle Stitch River Driver Shirts have become a com­fortable addition to jeans or under a flannel shirt. They are roomy yet at the same lime won't stretch in the elbows. For $24.00 to $28.00, they provide a classic yet comfortable look. We can't forget about those sub-zero bone-chilling ski slope tem­peratures. Gore-lex is the new invention of the nineties. It's perfect for skiing in the mountains because it is 100% water proof. Complete with many sizes and colors, L.L. Bean sells the jacket from $149 to $169 dollars depending once again on the size. 


Although L.L. Bean seems to be one of the only catalogues adapted to cold weather on the market, J. Crew is shaping up to be a fierce competitor. Like L.L. Bean, J. Crew is famous for their flannels, especial­ly among the college crowd. But they have also received a great deal of recognition among consumers for their roll neck sweaters and anoraks. Their anoraks are perfect for the cold weather and provide the classic yet stylish look while hiking. They provide warmth and are a practical and easy addition for any outdoor excursion. The roll neck sweater provides the warmth of a sweater but omits ribbing at the neck in order to offer a natural and stylish roll to it. They are made in cotton, linen, or wool in order to fit your particular needs. They range from $48.00 to $64.00 depending on the type of material and the size. 
Catalog shopping could become a nightmare if you are not careful. Victoria Secret offers Express deliv­ery for $15.00 more than the ship­ping and handling price. The ship­ping and handling price ranges from $3.95 for a bill of $25.00 or less to $17.95 for an item $225.00 or more. 

L.L. Bean 1-800-221-4221 
Solid color sweat shirts $24 Socks $7 
Shipments outside the United States may be subject to import charges. Ann Taylor is similar to Victoria Secret in that it provides gift wrap­ping or overnight express delivery, but Ann Taylor's shipping charges are somewhat cheaper-they begin at $5.00 and increase to $10.00. 
L.L. Bean offers the unique service of monogramming for five bucks per item and they regard all orders the same by charging only $3.95 ship­ping and handling for regular Federal Express regardless of the quantity or price of the items. They offer Express overnight delivery for an additional $10.00. J. Crew oper­ates much the same as Victoria Secret and Ann Taylor in that ship­ping ranges from $4.95 to $9.90 depending on the cost of the item. Watch out for added sales tax, which sometimes depends on what state you're from-not necessarily what state you deliver to! In all of these catalogues the shipping time takes approximately one to three weeks and only major credit cards such as Visa and Mastercard are 
2 days for delivery 
accepted. 
Catalog shopping can often be a blessing in disguise, especially when you know exactly what you are look­ing for. You should also know exactly what you want to spend though. When you get your bill, shipping and handling can be a hefty surprise. And do not forget that when you use your charge card, sometimes you're looking at a 19% interest rate. 
Meggan Newland contributed to this article. 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH fAT MAN AND DADDY 

Shawshank 
redeems itself a second time 
(out of four) 
*** 
Andy (Tim Robbins) is a well-off banker who is convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. lie gets sent to the Shawshank prison on a life sen­tence. During his stay, he encounters a crooked warden, villainous guards. aggressive Sodomiles. and a contraband dealing conoict named Red (Morgan Freeman). Andy and Red become friends and spend a large portion of the movie reflecting on the nature ofa l(fe of confinement and working to better the conditions at the prison. Soon. the guards and the warden discover that Andy pos­sesses a mastery of tax law and general account­ing; they employ him to do their annual taxes. Before long, Andy moves from filling out simple Form 1040's to being the financial brains behind a money laundering scheme which involoes the war­den and his brainchild: a prison work gang that bids out jobs from the local community. 
Fat Man: Although this film came out in the­aters quite a while ago, it has made a big screen return on the backing of its many Oscar nomina­tions. This rebirth of The Shawshank Redemption allows movie-goers another chance to see a good piece of work. Tim Robbins, the veteran actor of a number of good films including Jacob's Ladder, The Player, Bull Durham, and Bob Roberts, brings his earnest acting talents to this well scripted movie. Helped by Morgan Freeman's strong per­formance, the two men interact well with each other; they create believable characters that grow on the viewer. 
The best that an actor can do with his role is to make the viewer interested in the outcome of the person they portray. This was the case with both Andy and Red. The two lead characters were the reason that The Shawshank Redemption is such an enjoyable movie. Without them and their peculiar views of freedom and morality, it simply would have been another poor attempt at invoking the power of the Cool/Jand Luke story. 
The plot, though well written, slipped by creat­ing villains that we have all seen before. The Bible-quote·spewing evil warden, who looks a lot like Henry Kissinger, runs around with a golden cross pinned to his lapel. He does not care to help or convert his prisoners, he only wishes to pontifi­cate his indignant righteousness in order to main­tain his malevolent control over the prison. He reminded me of a cross between a grammar school principal haunted by feelings of inadequacy and one of the nameless priests who taught me catechism. His overall character is insipidly stale. He comes off as a slicked up copy of the crotchety authority figure who swaggers across so many prison films telling beloved heroes that there has been a failure to communicate their totalitarian philosophy. 
Besides the warden, there is also the usual ensemble of goons who pass for the guards that fill The Shawshank Redemption. They are Aryan ex·jocks who love money, power, and wielding their night sticks. Although the guards in this film are a bit on the nasty side, they still suffer from their obvious origins in the stagnant cesspool of Hollywood stock characters. 
Yet the shortcomings of the movie do not weigh heavily enough on the overall quality of film mak­ing to collapse its integrity as a study of freedom and deferred lives. The film deals with topics that could easily be mishandled and overblown, but it manages to thread its more poignant psy­chological and philosophical themes into the story with a great deal of subtlety. The movie does not let Y9U forget that these people are criminalswho have committed horrendous disservice to their fel­low human beings. It also does not rule out the possibility of change as so perfectly articulated by Red at his parole hearing. It presents an interest· ing discussion of human freedom in which fear of the unknown suffocates opportunities for many of the films characters to truly live in a world barren of mental and physical restraints.. 
The Shawshank Redemption. in spite of its superficial villains, succeeds in delivering its major themes and is well deserving of the lauda· tions that it bas received. 
John Zach and Scott Bozik are Fat Man and Daddy. Their movie reoiews appear ever_y Monday in The Obserz,er. Unfortunately, Daddy zs abroad this week soliciting funds for the Agnostic Liberation Front 
'-, 


won." 157 -pound quarterfinal. est Judges score based on how The match was stopped at the 
many punches are landed, not on 1:14 mark in the first round after continued from page 16 blood loss. And even though a Cabreros right knocked Manzano landed a lot of straight Thompson to the canvas.
could have gone either way, but I 
jabs with a controlled attack, it The sophomore will face senior
honestly thought I won." 

was MacLeod's flurries of left Stefan Borso in the semifinals.
So did much of the crowd, who 
hooks and right crosses that Borso earned a unanimous deci­
jeered at the decision after it was 
made him the winner. sion over fellow senior Casey
announced. 

Along with a tough attitude and Price in the first match of his
Even MacLeod was a bit con­
a sneak attack of sorts. Bengal Bouts career.
fused. But he might have been a 
"Nobody knew about Jack In the 160-pound division, the
little too punch-drunk to make a 
MacLeod since he's a first-year quarterfinal bout between seniors 
clear assessment. 

fighter," Manzano said. Dan Adams and Brendan
"When they said, 'unanimous,' I 
Butch Cabreros's impressive Heatherman was canceled.
felt bad," he said. "I was at least 
return to Bengals action Sunday, Heatherman was forced to forfeit
hoping I could have made it a 
earning a knockout in the first because of a personal crisis. 
split decision. I couldn't believe I 
round over Mike Thompson in his ~~G~ .•. >·· 
tf?~~-G>~ ~~0} 

130 pound weight class 135 pQund weight dass Eric Garcia-Unan Dec.~Frank Diorio Greg Mark:s.,.Unan Dec.-Pete Villa Avalino Veceles-RSC Rd. 3-Bob Payne Ben Decio.~RSC Rd. 2-Pete O'Rourke Todd Bello-Unan Dec.-Pete Bancroft Tony Biolcl:rlni-RSC Rd. 2-John Connorton Dan Zepf-Unan t)ec.-Matt Peacock · Andy Dicello-RSC-Dennis Joyce 
145 pound weight class 150 pound weight class 
Dan Couri-Unan Dec.-Ron Jacinto Matt Kowalsky-RSC Rd. 2.-DavidBradshaw Lucas Molina-Unan Dec.-Rob Clancy Shawn Hamer-Split Dec.-Damon Affinito Ted Pagano-Split Dec.-Jak.e Rademacher Tim Irwin-Split Dec.-Joe Hartzell Rick Rogers-Unan Dec.-Tony Abalos Nate Mick-Unan Dec.-Tom Kelly 
155 pound weight class 157 ponnd weight class 
Chris Rosen-BYE Eric.Hillegas-BYE Brendan McGuire..;Split Dec,,-Ben.<;:ast 'Ryan Walker..;Unan Dec,-John Moran Jesse Barrett~Unan Dec.-,Pete Titterton Stefan Bo~o.,.Unan Dec.-Casey Price John Kmetz-Unan Dec.-Chris Marando Butch Cabreros-RSC Rd. 1-Mike Thompson 
160 pound weight class 165 pound weight class Michael Thompson-RSC Rd. 3-Joe Zimhelt John Christoforetti-BYE Mike Wigton-Split Dec.-Matt Berilla Rob Piecuch-Split Dec.-KevinArendt Dan Adams-RSC~Brendan Heathennan Jack MacLeod-Unan Dec.-Glen Mazano Brad Parker-Split Dec.-Brad Joseph Pat Dolan-RSC Rd. 1-Dan Bergan 
170 pound weight class 175 pound weight class Jeff Goddard-RSC Rd. 2-Frank Cristinzio Rob Naticchia-BYE Chris Peterson-Unan Dec.-l3rain O'Reilly· Pat Keaney-Unan Dec.-Nolan Kom\ 
Todd Murphy-Unan Dec.-Clay Scheetz· Chip Farrell-Split Dec.-Ted Lefere Mike Farrell-Unan Dec.-Norm Beznoska Bob Lalor-RSC Rd. 1-Eric Makowski 
185 pound weight class 195 pound weight class Mike Mantey-BYE Troy Phillips-BYE Dave Harris-Unan Dec.-Chris Neumann Dan O'Rourke-Unan Dec.-Dave Monahan Matt Mulderrig-Unan Dec.-Tom Robetazzi Jake Lustig-Split Dec.-Joe Oriano Chad Harrison-RSC Rd. 2-Ryan Clark Dave Baker-BYE 
Heavyweight action begins in Wednesday's Semifinals 
~---~-·­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 27, 1995 

Bouts 
continued from page 16 
There had indeed been a mistake. Berilla, once a split decision winner, was now a split decision loser. Wigton would move on to fight Mike Thompson in Wednesday's semifinals. 
"I can't even tell you how disappointed I am. This is a chance that comes along only once in 12 months and to have it slip away like that," Berill a said. "It's not the matter of winning and losing but how everything happened." 
The mistake was realized ring side when the cards were turned in to the official scorers. One of the judges scored the fight 59-58 in favor of Wigton but had written Berilla's name in the space for the victor and had circled it. Johnson became aware of the mishap and took the steps necessary to assess the problem. He, along with referee Tom Suddes, met with RecSports director Tom Kelly and determined Berilla had er­roneously been awarded the decision. 
"Somehow the mistake got by the referee who checks before the announcement," Johnson said. "It is not unusual for there to be mis­takes but it is for them to get announced." 
That slip was the only mishap in a fine night of fighting. Forty-one fights are in the books, most going as expected. There was a high number of called fights with ten fights called before the final bell, three of which ended before the end of the first round. Surprisingly three fights in one of the lowest weight classes stopped short of the dis­tance. Ben Decio, Tony Biolchini, and Andy Decello all recorded stops in the 135-pound before the end of the second round. 
Most of the favorites had byes in the quarterfinals, and those that fought found little difficulty. Among those were Jeff Goddard who took the first step towards his third title when the referee stopped his fight with Frank Cristinzio 29 seconds into the second round. 
The crowd on hand had its favorites. including Jack MacLeod's win over Glen Manzano in the 165-pound class (see related story) and Brendan McGuire's split decision against Ben Cast in the 155-pound division. McGuire wooed the crowd and the judges with a strong third round to win by the narrowest of margins. 
Former Irish basketball player Pat Keaney advanced with a unanimous decision win over Nolan Koon at 175. Koon suprised his opponent and the crowd by catching Keaney early. But Keaney settled in and advanced to the semifinals where he will face defending champion Rob Naticchia. 
The semifinals are at 7:30 in the JACC Fieldhouse. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: Are you looking for that service pro­ject that really makes a difference, and is a lot of fun? Look no fur· ther ... THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT Youth Mentoring at the NE Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS AND FRIDAYS 2:30·3:30·4:30 meet at room 161 or Main Circle  WANT A FREE MASSAGE? Come to the massage workshop in the LaFun Ballroom on Wed. 3/1 from 7·10p.m. Massage instruction by Pennie Christie of Massage Therapy Works, free food, and free massages!\!\ BROUGHT TO YOU BY SUB $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323-2342 Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard ILOST & FOUND I  WANTED RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD· UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265·7691 SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS  TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS TREK 1400 BIKE CAMP·NORTHEAST·LOOKING $375 FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS 219·273-9382. BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS. Mac Powerbook.1 yr. old. 284·5256 GOOD SALARY, ROOM & BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. 86 Chevy Nova, red, auto, air, CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU, many new parts, looks & runs great, 2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E. $3500 or best offer, 272·9342 BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800·494­6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON Mac Powerbook 145, 1 year old, CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM· 40mb, claris, word, & more. LAFORTUNE $1,100/BO wade x3064 IBM386·25mhz,80Mb Hd,4 MB SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: RAM, DOS 6.1 ,WIN Make a difference in the life of a 3.1 ,3.5"&5.25",Modem,soft- LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUM· MER-I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, without drugs/diets/exercise\ All-natural product-guaranteed results\ Kelly (800)209-2150. Need a job for next year??? Student Activities is now accepting applications for 95·96 for: LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Information Desk Attendants Gorch Games Room Building Set Up Crew 24 Hr. Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors  
Questions? -Brian Tierney x 1 058  LOST WATCH!!!!!  CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  child! Summer therapy camp for ware.$600 or best. Call Sean x0519 handicapped children. Located on orx3790.  Irish Express Workers Office Assistants  
Farley Hall Players Present: Euripides' MEDEA A New Translation by Brendan Kennelly Pertormances begin at 8:00pm on: Saturday, Feb. 25th Sunday, Feb. 26th Monday, Feb. 27th At the Loft in Lafortune  I lost my watch in O'Shag room 208 last Thursday, 2-16. It has a white face with a wide black band. The numbers are unique. It's very important to me! Please call Nancy, 277-0655. If anyone found a Red and Green Power Ranger figure at the Morris Inn Bus Shelter on 2/18/95 around  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf, Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse, Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Pool, Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes. Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer, Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski,  shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, MI. Positions available for TICKETSCounselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, I HAVE TO TICKETS TO TOM and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, PETTY AND I NEED TO GET RID responsible, and love children. June OF THEM-JEFF X 4100 18 through August 13. Salary, room & board, and experience of lifetime provided. Call or write for applica-I HAVE TO TICKETS TO TOM  Applications in Student Activities, 315 LaFortune.Deadline March 10. PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES Extra! Extra! Read All About It! 5 days til PANGBORN'S PRICE IS RIGHT! Sat. 7pm at Washington Hall Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk, $3 PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES PRIZES  
Tickets are $4 at the Lafortune Info  1.15 pm, please call 273-5906. My  Windsurfing, Weights, Wood,  \ion and information. Bay Cliff PETTY AND I NEED TO GET RID  
Desk  8-yr old son is heartbroken.  Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, OF THEM·JEFF X 4100  SKIPPY·  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay of two nights required. $125 advance deposit per room. Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll Road, 15 miles from Campus. Send request by mail to 3011 Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514 or fax to 219· 262-1590. ••••••EXPRESS YOURSELF.....  Lost on 2/17 at Senior Bar Valentine Party · my camera was taken by mistake. I may have yours. Mine is a 35mm Canon Sure Shot. I want my pix. Call Maria 284-5232. Lost -Men's thin dark brown leather gloves in Library on 1st or 2nd floor on Mon. 2/20. Call O'Shag at 4· 0975 LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT  Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite 406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431, (800)494·6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room · Lafortune. STOP BY·No appoint· ment needed. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING-Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com· panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment  Suite 300, Marquette. Ml 49855, (906)228·5770 I HAVE TO TICKETS TO TOM PETTY AND I NEED TO GET RID OF THEM·JEFF X 4100 FOR RENT I MOVE OC! Turtle Creek w/3 fem PERSONAL 180/mo summer/95·96: 273·6437 I I 000 The Copy Shop 000 HOMES FOR RENT LaFortune Student Center NEAR CAMPUS WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 232-2595 & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!!! Phone 631-COPY  only one week left .... get your shot glass ready. B.F. It's too late Solo, you're Bantha Fodder now! Dan Murray-man, myth, legend is finally twenty one! I'm ready for ya big guy! Love, Kathy Ireland  
It you are going to the TRACY CHAPMAN show on March 2 and would like to share some thoughts with her, check out the LaFortune Info Desk. There, a box and some  AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10 (FISHER-WALSH DANCE) PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 273·5399 WITH ANY INFO.­REWARD!!!!!  available. No experience neces· sary. For more information call1· 206·634-0468 ext. C55843 Macri's Deli on the East Race  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR· HOOD FURNISHED HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT WATCH JENNY JONES ON SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 MARCH 1ST-its on at 4:00 on STUDENTS 2773097 WGN. See Nate dog on Lutherl  Kiddo, Just think in two weeks we'll have that whole distance thing beat, well for a bit at least. Tell John I'm  
/  3x5 cards have been placed for fans to write anything they want Tracy Chapman to read. Whether it he social, political, artistic, or per­sonal, she wants to know what  FOUND· Woman's silver ring in O'Shag Ladies' room. Call631-8635 to identify  now hiring for all positions. It's a great place to work, flexible hours and great pay. Apply within 214 North Niles Ave. or call 280·4824.  LISTEN TO US!!! SHARE NICE FUN. HOME W/ MICHELLE AND KRISTA GRAD MALE TO 6/95$195 I WVFI AM 640 232-1519 FIR DAYS 11:30 TO 1 :30  coming and I'm bringing the polo. -An lllinios Farmer Favorite Quotes from Grace 1.She's 9000 miles from my  

Notre Dame is thinking. Certain entries will be read by Tracy Chapman onstage during her show. TRACY CHAPMAN MARCH 2 STEPAN CENTER 8:00P.M. $12 STUDENTS, $15 GEN PUB 
.....EXPRESS YOURSELF ...... 

Last week I lost a black three-ring binder notebook somewhere ­it has all of my stuff from Japanese class in it, so I really need it back. II found, please call me: X3577 
Rosanna 

SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID CALL 1·800-786·8373 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Technics 5·disc cd player w/remote·perfect condition $175 or best offer·X0640 
WE'RE REALLY COOL AND SINGLE TOO. 
2 LUSTY BABES need ride to Key West. Call Kim x4528 or Colleen 287-7353 and give your best offer. 
babolones! 2.She came over early this morning. 3. Is he in there? I need to talk to him! 4. Your date already left? 5. She's 9000 mile from my babolones! 
The Devil is in Salem, Farley DOOL 

,.....-----------------_...----------~--~-------------------------­
I 

1
The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBAll 
Belles finish with victory 
Monday, February 27, 1995 
Win 
continued from page 16 
:l-2, the Notre Dame seemed to turn their game up to an even high level. On the offensive end. Brian Welch found Jeremy Coe wide open streaking to the nr.t, and Coe immediately sent the puck sailing past Turco for a 4-2 advantage. Defensively, freshman goaltender Matt Eisler stifled the Wolverines, saving 40 of their 43 shots. 
With 14:28 remaining in the final period, Matushak took the wind out of the Wolverines' sails with his second goal of the night to extend the Irish's lead to 5-2. The score came cour­tnsy of' a pair of assists from Momshead and junior lefl wing Chris Bales. 
Michigan added a meaning­less goal with 13:56 left in the third period, but the Irish put the nail in the coffin minutes later to send the Irish faithful into .a frenzy. 
"As far as victories go, that is by far the best one we've had since I've been here," said se­nior Jeff Hassleman. "It can carry us into the playoffs, and it shows everyone that our pro­gram's going to take off." 
Indeed, it was a special night that will live forever in the archives of Notre Dame sports history. The Irish frustrated the Wolverines and silenced the critics. But best of all, they came together as a team. 
Step aside ghosts of the past. This was history in the making. 


WANTED BY THE 0 BSERVER NEWS DEPT: 
Motivated, eager folks for the following positions 
ASSOCIATE NEWS EDITOR ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR NEWS COPY EDITOR 
Interested? Then The Observer wants you! Please submit a resume and statement of intent to Dave Tyler by Thursday, March 2 at 8 p.m. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323 or 4-1200. 
By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Friends and families of the Saint Mary's basketball team filled the bleachers at Angela Athletic Facility on Saturday to watch the Belles win their final game {87-77) against Anderson University. 
"The large crowd always mo­tivates the team to do their best," said coach Marvin Wood. 
Saint Mary's had a slow start in the first half, trailing Anderson by eleven. Noticing his teams distraction, coach Wood called a time out, eleven minutes into the first half , and requested greater intensity from his team. 
"We were not on the same page," said Wood. "We first had to get on the same page with Anderson before we could at­tempt to defeat them." 
His speech must have been inspirational. The Belles quick­ly picked up the eleven points and surpassed Anderson by two before half time. Saint Mary's continued their domination in the second half, never allowing Anderson another lead. 
"We executed our offense al­most to complete perfection for eleven minutes," Wood said. "Our open person kept hitting the basket and our defense kept giving the ball to our offense." 
The Belles shot eighteen out of twenty-five free throws, 
t\lliedSignal 
AEROSPACE 
SECURITY 

Part time positions open on the afternoon and midnight shifts for Security Officers in Soufh Bend location. 
Will train and prouide uniforms. Starting pay at $6.50 per hour. 
Duties will consist of fire watch tours in an industrial/office compleH and access control at a uehicle/pedestrian gate. 
Contact Don Muncy at RlliedSignal Rerospace, 231-2528_ 
EDE/M/F 
shooting at seventy-two per­cent. This is an improvement from their last game in which they made thirty-three out of seventy-one shoots. 
Saint Mary's also reduced their number of turnovers to eighteen, while Anderson had twenty-four. 
The Belles leading scorer, Jennie Taubenheim, scored thirty-nine points to add to her season total of four hundred and thirty-six points. Taubenheim made the record for the most points scored by one individual for the last three consecutive years. 
Not only did Taubenheim make twenty-nine points in twenty-five minutes of playing time, she also had eight re­bounds, four assists, and four steals. 


Myth: "Alcohol is astimulant:' 
Fact: Alcohol is adepressant. It acts on the central nervous system like an anes­thetic to lower or depress the activity of your brain. 
Myth: "A drink or two makes me drive better:' 
Fact: Even one drink can cloud you thinking, dim your vision, and slow your reflexes. Small amounts of alcohol can impair your judgement an put you and others on the road at risk of death or disabling 
..

Injury. Myth: "I always stay away from the hard stuff:' Fact: Alcohol is alcohol. Beer has the same effect as straight scotch. One 12-ounce beer has as much alcohol as a1.5­ounce shot of whiskey or a5-ounce glass of wine. 
Myth: "Drinking coffee sobers me up:' 
Fact: Coffee cannot rid your system of alco­hol. It just makes you anervous, wide­awake drunk. Only time reverses impairment 
Myth: "I'm bigger so I can handle my liquor 
better:' 

Fact: Size is only one factor in how much you can drink. Metabolism, amount of rest, and food intake all play apart in how you handle liquor. Impairment in motor reflexes and judgement can begin with the first drink. 
Myth: "I just drive slower:' Fact: Many people do, believing they can actually compensate for being impaired by creeping along at 22 mph. This can be very dangerous. Others race along at 75 mph. The truth is, impaired drivers are unsafe at any speed. 
Sponsored by the Office ofAlcohol & Drug Education 
----------------~ ~--~-~--~ -----------~----------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 27, 1995 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 


Tradition, rivalry end in furious finish 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Sports Writer 
It was just like the holidays. The family got together and the annual basketball game was played. The miracle shots taken, the blatant fouls commit­ted, the trash talking and the whining are over. Tradition. 
Notre Dame (14-12) is built on tradition and last Saturday it mourned the death of one of its greatest traditions as the Irish and Marquette (15-1 0) squared off for the final time. 

In 1919 the Irish started what would be their lengthiest regu­lar rivalry of 102 games against the then Warriors and today Golden Eagles. It also formed the traditional midwestern Catholic match-ups of the Irish, the Golden Eagles and DePaul. 
Aside from the tradition, the game also paired two young teams fighting for the chance to play in the National Invitation Tournament. 

It would only be appropriate that this game would be a great one, and it was. 
"In a rivalry like this one any­thing can happen," Golden Eagle head coach Mike Deane said. And he was correct. 
In a game that featured five lead changes, the Irish looked to be in charge with two min­utes to go, but Golden Eagle point guard Tony Miller tied the game at 63 with a three pointer as the shot clock ran down. 
With under a minute to go the bizarre happened. After the Golden Eagles went up 64-63, Eagle guard Anthony Piefer stole an outlet pass off a missed Miller free throw. 
After being fouled and miss-
Global Internship and Language Programs 
~ 
/.

•
.l' 

ing both, Piefer proceeded to grab the rebound off his second missed free throw. Again he was fouled, but this time hitting the first and missing the second to give the Golden Eagles a two point lead at 65-63 with nine seconds left. 
The final minute circus show ended when Irish guard Pete Miller's three pointer at the buzzer for the win just missed left. 
"This was two young teams getting after each other," Deane commented. 'The emo­tion and tradition of the game carried us through. Notre Dame was 18-2 over the last 20 games in the series. It was great to get the win." 
The Golden Eagles are breathing easier. They have won four of the last five and look to have the inside track. 
The Irish on the other hand should be worried. They have lost four straight and will need to win tomorrow against Loyola. Yet, MacLeod does not see his NIT chances slipping away. 
"I don't think losing this game knocks us out of the NIT," MacLeod said. "We had a flat spot against Butler and a flatter one against Fordham, but the true test is how he bounce back and we did that today. We didn't embarrass ourselves." 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
;t; WRESTUNG -Attention ND wrestlers! Interested in reviv­ing wrestling at the University of Notre Dame? A group of students is starting a wrestling club on campus. If interested in the club, call Marcus or Andrew at 4-2230 
and you will be sent details. 



This interdisciplinary series examines issues of educational equity and excellence as they affect America's urban schools. Six visiting scholars will explore topics that include developing literacy in urban students, new approaches to desegregation, the relationship of education and democracy, the role of teachers in shaping moral learning, the effectiveness of urban public and Catholic schools, and a review of Chicago public school reform. 
SERIES SCHEDULE 

Thurs, March 2nd John Bransford, Vanderbilt University 
Developing Literacy Skills in Urban Students 
(co-sponsored by the Department of Psychology) 
4:15 pm, Room 102, DeBartolo Hall 

Thurs, March 9th Charles Willie, Harvard University 
Controlled Choice: A New Approach to Achieving Equity and Excellence in School Desegregation 
4:15 pm, Room 124, Center for Social Concerns 

Thurs, March 23rd Benjamin Barber, Rutgers University 
Education For Democracy: Citizenship, Community & Service 

(co-sponsored by the Center ror Social Concerns, the Colleges or Arts & Letters, Business, Engineering, and Science, and the Law School) 
7:00 pm, Auditorium, Center for Continuing Education 

Thurs, March 30th Vanessa Walker, Emory University 
Historical/mages of Teaching: Reviving the Perspective ofAfrican-American Teachers 
4:15 pm, Room 124, Center for Social Concerns 

Thurs, April 6th Barbara Schneider, University of Chicago & National Opinion Research Center Measuring Outcomes in Public & Private Education 
4:15pm, Room 124, Center for Social Concerns 

Moo, April lOth Anthony Bryk, University of Chicago 
Recent Lessons from Chicago School Reform 
4:15pm, Room 124, Center for Social Concerns 

For more information on this series, please contact the Notre Dame Urban Institute at (219) 631-9015. 
By Craig Lucas 
Tuesday and Wednesday Feb. 28th and March 1st 7:30p.m. Washington Hall Tickets Available at LaFortune Box Office $3.00 
Monday, February 27, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
It's not the top priority of the suits who pick the post-season participants, but it's all Notre Dame can cling to after a 65-63 loss to Marquette Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
"I don't think losing this game knocks us out of NIT con­tention," Irish coach John MacLeod said. "We didn't em­barrass ourselves." 
That's how far the Irish have fallen. 
Not so long ago, Notre Dame fans dared to discuss a possible NCAA Tournament berth. 
Now, after four straight loss­es, the Irish (14-12) are hoping that un-embarrassing defeats are enough to elbow their way into the NIT, the NCAA's neglected sibling. 
And Saturday's loss left them with no reason to be red-faced. 
Trailing by two points with nine seconds left, MacLeod in­serted 3-point specialist Pete 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Last chance shot misses 
Please remember to vote today in elections for: 
Class Office Student Senate Off-Campus Co-Presidents 
Current off-campus students may vote at the 

LaFortune InforDtation Desk 
SENIOR LECTURE SERIES 


Lou Nanni 
Director of the South Bend Homeless Shelter 
Speaking about: Community Service to Your Life 
Tuesday, February 28 7:00p.m. Montgomery Theater -LaFortune 
Miller, who had not played pre­viously in the second half. 
When Ryan Hoover, Notre Dame's other 3-point threat, got tangled bringing the ball upcourt, he dished to an open Miller who missed a long-dis­tance desperation shot as time expired. 
"Pete had a great look at it," MacLeod said. "We ran the play exactly the way we wanted it." 
The execution wasn't quite as excellent a few seconds earlier, the Golden Eagles missed four of their own rebounds and once stole a Matt Gotsch outlet pass. 
"The key part of the game that proved to be our end was when they missed their free throws and kept getting the re­bounds," MacLeod said. 
Anthony Piefer, Marquette's best free throw shooter, missed three of his last four from the foul line, but ducked inside to grab a rebound and dogged Hoover on the last play, forcing him to pass instead flinging the last shot. 



SPRING BREAKERS! 

unlimited tanning for $SS 

-or­

$J pe·r session when you 
hu to 100 sessions!ff 
Around the Corner 
StudI.0 
from Sam's Club 
271-lSUN 

Area's Newest & Friendliest Salon 
"He owed us after missing those free throws," Marquette coach Mike Deane joked. 
Notre Dame led by as much as seven after a 19-6 run to open the second half. But Marquette came back to tie the game on a 3-pointer from Tony Miller with a minute left. 
"He's not a great 3-point shooter," Deane said, "but he's a shotmaker when it's crunch time." 
Notre Dame had nobody who could match Marquette's play­makers. The Irish failed to score in the final 2:55. 
Matt Gotsch took away the Golden Eagles' expected advan­tage inside, scoring a game­high 15 points. Hoover added 12 and Pat Garrity had 11. 
Forward Chris Crawford led Marquette with 14 and Piefer scored 12. 
The Irish have one last chance for redemption in their season-finale Tuesday against Loyola (Ill.) at the Joyce Center. 


Recycle the Observer 
Hosted byRick Steves, author of 
Europe Through The Backdoor 
andnostof 
Travels in Europewith RickSteves 

..
_ 
page 14 

The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 




Irish display lack of mercy 
ByKCGOYER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team continued their nine game home court winning streak alive on Saturday as they defeated Detroit-Mercy 83-62. 
The key factors in the Irish victory included rebounding and the additional scoring punch of the freshman guards. The everywhere play of Letitia Bowen and the offensively un­stoppable Katryna Gaither have become constants in the recent successes of the Notre Dame squad. 
The first half, however, was not encouraging as the Irish struggled without success to gain the lead. Detroit played a constricting zone which col­lapsed two or even three de­fenders on any Irish player in the paint with the ball. 
Detroit knew well of the Notre Dame lethal inside game and the fact that the team's hottest shooter from the perimeter was sidelined with an injury. 
Thus, the visitor's plan of shutting down the inside and leaving the outside open appeared to be working when the Irish were trailing by as many as 11 with five minutes to go in the first half. Notre Dame rallied to within two with a 15­4 run sparked by a three point­er by freshman Kari Hutchison and finished off with Gaither's layups inside. 

In the second half, the pat­tern continued. With 13:53 left to play, the score was tied at 
45. In the next 90 seconds, freshman guards Mollie Pierick and Hutchinson combined for three buckets from downtown, and a short jumper by Gaither iced off an 11 point lead for the Irish. The tables were turned and the Irish never turned back. 
"Our freshman really stepped up in this game," Gaither said, "On offense as well as defense." 
Pierick finished the game with 19 points, including a 5-6 performance from behind the three point arc. 
Hutchinson complemented the efforts of Pierick as she hit 3-5 from the field and 2-3 from three point land. 
In addition to the hot, second half shooting, the Irish defense and rebounding helped ignite a spark. Scoring was low on both sides in the first half, but in the last 20 minutes, Notre Dame allowed only seven buckets to be scored on them. 

"We played aggressive defense in the second half which stopped their offense," Gaither said, "We were also aggressive on the boards which we were able to convert into points." 
The Irish were outrebounded in the first half 22-18, but came back in the second to pull down 33 and limit Detroit to just 11. Rebounding has become a sig­nature of the Irish, as has been the all around skills of Bowen and increasing contributions of 
Gaither. 

Make '95 a summer to remember, and one you'll get credit for, while on the island of Manhattan, attending the Columbia University Summer Session. Whether you want to get a jump on the competition or gain personal enrichment, Columbia offers a diverse range of graduate and undergraduate day and evening courses in the Humanities, Sciences and Social Sciences. 
Our '95 offerings include: 
Anthropology-Art History -Biology-Chemistry -Classics -Computer Science ­East Asian Languages and Cultures -Economics -English and Comparative Literature-French-Geology-German-History-International Affairs-Italian -Journalism-Music-New York City Related Courses -Philosophy -Physics -Political Science ­Psychology -Religion -Sociology -Statistics -Writing ­Yiddish... to name a few. Plus, our Overseas Programs in Italy and France. 
Call for our complete course listing 
(212) 854-5109 
Or fax us 
(212) 854-6316 
Our e-mail address: summersession@columbia.edu 
Columbia University

Summer Session Office, Columbia University 303 Lewisohn Hall, Morningside Heights SUMMER SESSION '95 New York, NY 10027 
where the ivy climbs to new heights Columbia University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution. 
The Observer/ Eric Ruethling 

Senior Letitia Bowen had 14 points as the Irish beat the Flames. 







eron 


THURSDAY, MARCH 2 7:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlln, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 
.... 
VARSITY SHOP
..., 

• 
Baseball 

• 
Cross Country 

• 
Fencing 

• 
Golf 

• 
Lacrosse 

• 
Soccer 

• 
Softball 

• 
Swimming 


Don't Miss. 
THE 1994·95 MCC REGULAR SEASON CHAMPIONS IN THEIR LAST REGULAR SEASON HOME GAME! 

• Tennis  
• Track & Field  
• Volleyball  Notre Dame Women's Basketball vs. Xav1er  


Monday, February 27, 1995 The Observer· TODAY page 15 
MIRRORLAND HUY NGOC PHAN 
AI-'1€R.iCAt-l5 *'AP.HY )A'f • t-10'. 1" HEY :JUST ooo-.~'1" c.AU... 
UH ... How Lor-JG Do 
'fr:N HAlkO: "TO wAiT UNTiL 'IOJ ktJOW :rr'S A JJo '? 

DILBERT 
I'l"\ 1-\APPY TO REPORT S IT'S TA\<..EN rORTY Tl-lfi.T TI-\E "EXCELLE.~CE. ~ 
PEOPLE. FROM A DOZ.EN
.. 

IN TEAf"\IN(,'' READ-OUT ~ 
DEPARTf"\ENT5 TO 
:1 

COf"\PLETE TI-\E STUDY.
15 NEARLY RE~DY. ~ 
~ 
.... 

WE FINALLY GOT
0 0 

COf"\PLE.\E BUY-IN
"' 
'i 
E 

w 
vj 

~--------------~ L-l~~~~~~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Blaster's need 58 Song sung by 25 Passing mark 
M.L.K. and 1 Pizarro victim others26 Cabinet5 ·and 65 See 71-Across 
department

dangerous 66 Nonswimmer,
31 Tosspot's spot

10 Rights org. 
maybe estab. 1960 33 Chinese tea 
67 Drawn tight 14 One who's 34 Saint of Avila 68 Hanging loosely socially 
36 Rights org. 69 Surrounded bychallenged 
estab. 1942 70 Lawyer: Abbr. 15 With 4-Down, 
38 Mr. Onassis 71 With 65-Across, M.L.K. 
former French
39 Rights org. led

declaration of president
by M.L.K. 

8/28/63 
72 Play areas43 M.L.K. and 16 Pentateuch: 73 Sci. class others
Var. 47 Writer Rosten 
17 Gen. Bradley 48-rasa DOWN
1&lnvoice word 51 Inferential
19"Love­
1 Aware of 
leaveit" 54 Pizarro's theft 2 Verne's captain 
from 1-Across 

20 M.L.K. honor, 3 Cancer, 1964 55 Up to. briefly 
zodiacally 
23 In the past 57 Luau dish 4 See 15-Across 5 Heathrow, e.g. &Onetime 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Korean president 7 Doll's cry a Force out 9 Peace policy 10 Swizzle 
37 Outback bird 40XVxX +I 41 Potok's "My 
Name Is Asher 
" 42 Miler Sebastian 44 LadyBird's 

middle name 27 Cry of surprise 45 One that keeps 
28 Bang up track? 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
46 Certain skiing 

5656 (75¢ each minute) . 
30 Ghostlike events, slangily 
0
.. 
z 


56 Andean animal 59 Ballyhoo 60 Scent 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IS TI-\AT ORIG INALL'(. 
H\E STUDY 
t;UT IT EVOLVED Or WI-\Y INTO /¥\()1\E OF WE CAN'T A OI5CUSSION fv\AKE. OF SQUIRREL DE.CI5IONSr 
f"\IGRATION 
PATTERNS. 
l 
CLOSE TO HOME 2-27 

"Unfortunately, Mr. Mendrick, your insurance doesn't cover some of the more conventional hearing aids." 

• OF INTEREST< 
F~renslcs and Human Rights Abuses will be the topic of a slide show and lecture by Dr. Robert Kirschner, International Director for Physicians for Human Rights, "forensi~ Identification of Human Rights Violations." The presentation will include identification o "Disappeared Persons" using DNA Testing and will be held today at 4:00 p.m. in room 120 of the Law School. 
% 
Father Graham McDonnell from Good Shepherd Movement (teaching in Japan) will be on campus at the Center for Social Concerns today. 
II MENU 
Notre Dame 
,;,gf:m,aTH DINING HALL 
·"Meatball Grinder Cheese Ravioletti Arroz con Queso 
Saint Mary's +'" 
Homestyle Pork Roast Beef Stroganoff Vegetable Kabobs 

r 1
Jnte~ested 

iV\ desigV\iV\9 
pages fol"' .... ViewpoiV\t? Call Mike at ­1-4541. 


.. 
SOUTH DINING HALL Turkey Manicotti Whipped Potatoes with Gravy 

(where M.L.K. &1 Sell earned his 
62 "Drat!" is a mild doctorate) 
one 52 Intersection: 63 Silent Abbr. 
64 Word origin: 53 Candy mint Abbr. 
Get answers to any three clues 
... 


SPORTS 
page 16 




A Big Win 
"It was one of the more elec­Season saved trifying moments the North Dome has had in a long time," said head coach Ric Schafer. "You'd have to go back pretty far to recall anything that rivals 
with upset of 

No. 2 Michigan 
this." By MICHAEL DAY Although the Wolverines out­Sporrs Writer shot the Irish 43-28, Notre 
Dame took charge from the be­Wake up the echoes. 
ginning and never looked back. 
Shake down the thunder. 

Junior center Jay Matushak,Move over Gipp, Knute, and playing the best game of his ca­Leahy. 
reer, broke a scoreless tie when On a cold and dreary night 
he sneaked the puck past
before a sellout crowd of 3,106, 
Michigan goaltender Marty
the Notre Dame hockey team Turco with 17:23 left in the 
did what was thought to be the first period. 
impossible-they defeated 
The score stood at 1-0 until 
Michigan. Hell froze over. 

early into the second period.
The Wolverines arrogantly Junior center Jamie Ling re­strutted into the Joyce Center ceived a pass from Steve Noble 
Saturday night at the top of 
and brought the crowd to their their game. They boasted the feet with a great individual ef­
No. 2 ranking in every poll 
fort at the 1:56 mark of the sec­
imaginable and had already 
ond period. 
thrashed the Irish 12-2 and 9-3 Michigan cut the lead to 2-1,this season. They hadn't lost to 
but the Irish answered rightNotre Dame since 1982 in a 
back when junior right wing span that covered 18 games. 
Jamie Moreshead received a All they had to do was show up 
pass via Matushak and Chris and victory would be handed to Bales and powered the puckthem. 
past Turco for his eighth goal of Not on this night. In a per­the season. 
formance that will be talked 
"At that point, I knew we about for years to come. They 
were in trouble," said added another immaculate Wolverine coach Red 
moment to the legendary Notre 
Berenson." "They had an an­Dame sports lore. It was not 
swer for every challenge we 
only a great way to salvage a 
gave them." losing season, but it was also a After Michigan cut the lead to tremendous boost for the hock­
ey program. 
see WIN I page 11 
• BENGAL Sours 


Oversight only hitch to Bouts opener 
By GEORGE DOHRMANN Sporrs Ediwr 

It went unannounced and unnoticed, that is, except to the two men the mis­take effected the most. 
Twenty minutes after ring announcer Jack Lloyd told the crowd at the Joyce ACC that Matt Berilla was the winner in 
-
the second fight of the 160-pound divi­sion, Bengal Bout organizer Terry Johnson told Berilla that there may have been a mistake. 
The Alumni Hall sophomore and his opponent, junior Mike Wigton from Zahm, gathered later in a conference room at the Joyce still smelling of sweat and stinging from a battle that had been one of the night's finest. 
see BOUTS I page 1 0 
Monday, February 27, 1995 


The Observer/Rob Rinch 

Irish hockey players celebrate in the closing seconds of Saturday's 6-3 upset win over Michigan. 
• !tST fiGHT 

Manzano, MacLeod, battle to unfitting end 
By MIKE NORBUT Associate Sports Editor 
Jack MacLeod started bleeding in the first round of his 165-pound Bengal Bouts quarterfinal Sunday. 
And the bleeding didn't stop until his hand was raised at the end of the fight, making him a winner by unanimous decision over senior Glen Manzano in what turned out to be the biggest upset of the first day of action. 
To look at MacLeod's face, one would not consider him the victor. To watch the match, one would never understand how he won unanimously. 
Some even thought Manzano could have pulled out a split decision. "I was surprised at the decision," the third-year veteran, said. "I thought it 
see BEST I page 1 0 



of note . ..
IRISH JUST MISS
.. 
Check tomorrow's Observer 

Notre Dame's NIT hopes are dealt a setback 
for results of weekend 

as Marquette hangs on, 65-63 
swimming, tennis, and baseball 
.

See Page 13 
actton. 







