
Wednesday, March 22, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 106 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NO hosts MBA competition Zamora: Remember 
Irish team makes 'strong' presentation 
By ANDREA JORDAN 
Ntows Writer 
A team from Notre Dame competed in the 14th annual Notre Dame Invitational Mas­ter's of Business Administra­tion (MBA) Case Competition, which was held yesterday in the Center for Continuing Edu­cation. 
The Notre Dame team com­prised of Curt Mitchke, Mike Morgan, and Thomas Prame faired well in the competition, but lost to the team from Uni­versity of Texas at Austin. 
The other three universities Jjarticipating in the eompetition were Duke University, Georgetown University, and Ohio State University. 
Each university had one team made up of three MBA stu­dents. In the competition, stu­dents were told to analyze and define the nature of the prob­lem of a troubled business. The problem was a non-fic­tional one about Nouvell Com­puters and its battle with Mi­crosoft. Previously, Nouvell took over Wordperfect and Cuatro Pro. The question to be answered in competition was "Where should Nouvell go now?" The teams were to pre­sent possible solutions con· cerning this question to a panel of judges. 


In describing the nature of the competition, Paul Conway, associate professor of finance and facilitator of the competi­tion said, "The universities have twenty-four hours to han­dle a business, twenty minutes to make a presentation, and twenty-five minutes to be quizzed by the judges." 
see MBA/ page 4 


Romero and the poor 
By MORRIS KARAM 
News Writer 
Emphasizing the late Arch­bishop Oscar Romero's advoca­tion for the poor, Ruben Zamora, Salvadorian political leader and 1994 presidential candidate, spoke last night in the Hesburgh Center Audi­torium. 
Zamora, a personal friend of Romero, outlined the assassi­nated bishop's progression to human rights advocate in three stages in his speech, ''The Em­powering Spirit of Archbishop Romero: A Personal Testi­mony." Zamora described Romero's relationship with the poor as a priest. 
"From the beginning he (Archbishop Romero) cared for the poor," Zamora said, "but at that time it was an external re­lationship." 
According to Zamora, when Romero became a bishop, he began to stop thinking of the poor merely as beggars and noticed their harsh situation. 
"Romero started to see the reality of conditions, but still did not want to take sides," Zamora said. 
Zamora explained Romero's transformation to advocate for the poor of El Salvador during the last three years of Romero's life. He said this political conversion stemmed from Romero's discovery of the political reality in El Salvador. 
"His conversion was not one of black to white, but a pro­cess," Zamora said. "lie start­ed to realize the poor not as objects of compassion but sub­jects of change in society." 
According to Zamora, through Romero's efforts, a Salvadorian peace accord was finally established in 1992. The result of this accord has been an absence of violence for the past three years, Zamora said. 
However, according to Zamora, the human rights Romero worked for are not being considered by the young people of today. 
"People my age can relate to his message because we re­member what happened," Zamora said. "But what about 20 year olds? Now that there is no more repression, his actions have become some­thing of the past." Zamora said he hopes that Romero's mes­sage will not be forgotten. 
"We are saying very little to the people now," Zamora said. "We are transforming Romero to a statue or a name in a his­tory book. We kill him by leav­ing him in his own age, and his message is still relevant today." 


Commencement honorees named 
the Advancement of Science can diplomat in India, Ireland; Twelve to join and Art in New York City was EI Salvador, . Taiwan, founded in 1859 and, through Bangladeshi South Africa, Themain speaker its endowment, offers tuition~ Netherlands and his homeland free undergraduate. training in of Australia. Ordained. a priest art, architecture and engineer­in 1949, he was elevated to
Condoleezza 
ing. archbishop in 1970 and to car~ Special to the Observer dinalin 1991, Most recently he 
• James Billington, librarian was appointed by Pope John 
Twelve distinguished national of Congress, doctor of laws. Paul ll to the presiding council and international figures in the Since his appointment in 1987 of the Central Committee for academy, the Church, public as the 13th librarian of the Jubilee Year 2000. serviee and business will join Congress, Billington has de­principal speaker Condoleezza voted himself to modernizing • Desire Collen. professor ?f Hice as honorary degree recipi­America's largest repository of medicine. University of Leuven ents at the University of Notre knowledge. A Russian scholar (Belgium), doctor of sc:;ience, Dame's 150th Commencement and the author of several ac· Collen has taken his research exercises May 21 (Sunday). claimed books on that country's in biochemistry, pharmacology 
Degrees will be conferred on history, he previously taught at and. molecular biology from the some 1,800 undergraduate and his alma mater, Princeton Uni· laboratory to the bedside, par·550 advanced degree candi· versity, and directed the tfcularly in the development· of datos in ceremonies beginning Woodrow Wilson International new agents to fight the forma­at 2 p.m. (EST) join the Joyce Center for Scholars. tion of blood clots. Educated.at Center. the University of' Leuven, Collen 
Rice, provost of Stanford Uni· • Sister Maura Brannick, al$o holds faculty positions at versity and a 1975 graduate of C.S.C .. founder and outreach the University of Vermont's Notre Dame, will receive an coordinator. Saint Joseph's College of Medic:;ine and Har· honorary doctor ot' laws de­Chapin Street Health Center, vard Medical School.· He was gree. doctor of laws. A member of served as served as chairman 
The other honorary degree the Congregation of the Sisters of the International Society for recipients are: of the Holy Cross, Bramiick Fibrinolysis and Thrombolysis founded the Chapin Street _and is a member of the Royal 
• Eleanor Baum. dean of the Center in 1986 to meet the Academy of Medicine in BeJ. Nerken School of Engineering, healthcare needs ofJow·income gium. · The Cooper Union, doctor of residents of South Bend's near engineering. The first woman west side. From humble be· • Roberto Goizueta, chairman dean of an American engineer· ginnings, the center has. ex~ of the b()ard and chief execu" ing school, Baum has worked panded to become a model for ·· tive pfficer, ·The Coca-Cola to dispel stereotypes about the . clinics throughout the commu-Company, doctor of Jaws. A profession and to attract more nity and the country and in native of Havana, Goizueta minorities and women. Born in 1991 received a Point of Light joined Coca.Cola in 1954 as a Poland and an electrical engi· award from President Bush. chemical engineer and worked neer by training, she was ap· • Cardinal Edward Cassidy, his way up on the technical pointed dean in 1984 and has president, Pontifical Council for side of the corporation until he led Cooper Union's engineering Promoting Christian Unity, doc• was named to lead the world's school to a No. 2 national rank· tor of laws. In is current post largest soft~drink company in ing in a survey of specialty since 1989, Cassidy previously schools. The Cooper Union for served the Holy See as a Vati· 
see DEGREES/ page 4 

Honorary Degree Recipients at Notre Dame's 150th Commencement Exercises 
Cardinal Edward Ca••ldy 
Ponllfl~:•l Council 
Prealdent 
Roberto Golzueta 

ceo tor 
The COCII•Cocla Company 
Alan GreenepanFedersl fttlerve SyatemSoard Chairman 
Polore8 LeckeyExet:utlve Director tha bishops' conterenee 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


The great Grace diaspora 
There seems to be some sort of curse on the male Domers in my family. None of them seem able (or perhaps allowed) to call any one particular dorm "home", specifically after graduation. 
A little less than a year Ethan Hayward ago, I got a letter from the Asssistant News Editor University's most popular ------­administrator (and I don't mean Monk). The letter stated that the other 549 residents of Grace Hall and I will, in two years' time, be moving out of our posh high­rise into two new (hopefully equ"ally posh) oblong dorms on the other side of campus, while the administration converts our cli­mate-controlled, parking-accessible facility into much needed office space. 
I must say that this is not exactly a unique situation in my Notre Dame family. About a year and a half after he graduated, my brother received a rather morbid memento­a brick from the late Holy Cross Hall, the dorm that he had called home from 1984 to 1988 and that had possibly the best view on campus. 
His beloved Hog Heaven had been demol­ished in the name of progress. My father and grandfather had similar situations, since they had to switch dorms every year, and since some those dorms have since been converted to female residences. 
My sister seems to have avoided such a fate. Her dear Breen-Phillips still stands (and remains female) even beyond her days of campus life. Perhaps the administration's reluctance to raze or convert that particular edifice has something to do with my sister's first name being Mary. Who knows? 
I don't think this hex is quite as egregious as the apparent Bruce Lee curse or that of Poe's Usher. Maybe it is a signal to my clan (or at least its male members) that we are frontiersmen, that we can't allow ourselves to be tied down to any one place and time. Then again, maybe the University just hates us. 
I'm just not too enthusiastic about having to move all the way from one side of campus "to an entirely new quad. Sure, the building will be some sort of architectural wonder (like Knott or Siegfried). Maybe we'll be able to collect golf balls from the roof after fair­weather weekends. We'll be right next door to the dining hall that doesn't serve the same thing four nights in a row. But what will there be on the quad besides my dorm? Another guys' dorm. Hoo-ray. 
One thing I am looking forward to is pick­
ing mascots for the newly christened Keough 
and O'Neill. I propose they have joint athletic 
teams and that the teams be known as the 
Grace Diaspora. What do you think? I just 
think it would be a good retort to the 
University's notion of promoting dorm unity 
through effectively splitting up a single 
dorm. 
This whole experience has taught me a few 
things, though. I've learned to have some 
empathy for the former Pangborn and 
Cavanaugh guys. And I've learned not to get 
too comfortable anywhere on campus, 
because I will most likely be asked to move, 
if not by an anxious roommate, then most 
likely by the campus itself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Victoria Pratte  
Deborah Schultz  Meaghan Smith  
Sports  
Tim Sherman  Production  
Tara Grieship  
Graphics  Jackie Moser  
Tom Roland  
Accent  Lab Tech  
Shannon Johnston  Mark Alexion  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associiued Press. All reproduction tights are reserved. 
• Wmn.o AT A GLANCE 
Birch bark provides a possible cure for skin cancer 
NEW YORK 

The peeling white bark of a common birch tree may contain a weapon against the deadly skin cancer melanoma. 
A substance found in birch bark shrank human melanoma tumors placed in mice, virtually eradicating some cancers, re­searcher John Pezzuto said. 
The compound, betulinic acid, caused no apparent side effects in the mice. And if it works in people, it should be relatively inexpensive because it is so widely avail­able, the researcher said. 
Bark peels naturally from "paper birch" trees, which are common in the northern United States and Canada.Pezzuto, head of medicinal chemistry at his university's pharmacy school, said he hopes human testing will begin within a year or so. 
He cautioned that nobody knows yet whether the substance will help melanoma patients, and said people should not try to concoct home remedies out of birch bark. 
Buchanan works to pull a surprise 
DAVENPORT, Iowa 
Republican presidential hopeful Pat Buchanan kicked off his campaign in a state he says is crucial to any 1996 contender today, warning his party is "far away from the American people." Buchanan, asked if his sharply conser­vative message could divide his party, said "every campaign divides folks, but you've got to stand up and say what's 

right and what's wrong." Asked if his unequivocal anti­abortion position could split voters, Buchanan said "slav­ery was divisive and segregation was divisive and civil rights was a divisive issue. I am pro-life. I am going to maintain a pro-life party." Buchanan predicted that "I think you'll be astonished with what we can d.," President Clinton's spokesman, Mike McCurry, today derided Buchanan, suggesting the conservative commen­tator was trying to unlease a "religious war" in the United States. His entry into the race follows that of T former Education Secretary Lamar Alexander. Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, set to formally enter the race next month, is considered a prohibitive favorite in Iowa's caucuses, where he won in 1988. 

Police stop roadblock with tear gas 
MEXICO CITY 
State riot police and soldiers used tear gas to disperse opposition activists who blocked a highway Tuesday in southern Mexico to protest the arrest of a former city councilman belonging to their party. The clash on the highway linking the Tabasco state capital of Villahermosa with Coatzacoalcos was the latest in a series of clashes between state authorities and members of the leftist Democratic Revolution Party. The roadblock was set up to protest this week's arrest of Carlos Wilson Gomez, a former PRO councilman from Cardenas, about 34 miles from Villahermosa. From the TV report, it was impossible to tell how many people blocked the highway. State police did not have an estimate on the number of protesters, but local reporters said there were about 2,000. At least four protesters were shot and seriously wounded by police, said Jose Antenor Ancona, news edi­tor of the ViUahermosa daily Olmeca, in a telephone interview. The official Notimex news agency said that Wilson was arrested on Monday. 
• bl!OJANA WEATHER 
Wednesday, March 22 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The paper birch tree and melanoma 
Betulinic acid, a compound found in birch bark, has shrunk human skin cancer tumors placed in laboratory mice. If the compound works in people, it could be inexpensively, since the 
sheds naturally from birch trees. 
Paper birch bark 

Source: University of Illinois at Chicago AP/C. Sanderson 
The Accu·Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 22. 
Os 
FRONTS: 
............................ ~ 
Wall of Harlem building collapses 
NEW YORK 
An ·outside wall of a six-story Harlem building peeled away Tuesday, exposing apartments and spilling tenants and their belongings onto a pile of rubble. Three people were killed and seven injured. At least 30 emergency workers and 100 firefighters rushed to the 72-unit apart­ment house and got down on their hands and knees to lift away bricks and look for victims. Officials had no expla­nation for why the wall of the white brick building col­lapsed. The 1920s-era building had been cited in recent years for elevator violations, but records showed no com­plaints about structural damage, city officials said. The floors of the exposed apartments tilted down 30 degrees, dumping occupants and their belongings into an alley. The building resembled a ramshackle doll house, with unmade beds, radiators and furniture slanting at precar­ious angles. Hours later, workers using a crane to remove debris came across the body of a woman. A 76­year-old woman who was taken to a hospital died after surgery. A 45-year-old man was hospitalized in serious condition with broken bones. Six others were treated for injuries. All the victims apparently lived in the building, police said. It wasn't immediately known how many resi­dents were evacuated to shelters. 
Robbery at post office leaves 4 dead 
MONTCLAIR, N.J. 
An after-hours hold-up at a post office Tuesday left 
four people shot to death and a fifth critically wounded. 
Police searched the quiet suburban town door-to-door for 
suspects. The victims were found after a postal worker 
entered the Upper Montclair post office just before 5 p.m. 
and saw a body on the floor. He left and called police, 
who arrived to find the carnage, and the attacker or 
attackers gone. Essex County Prosecutor Clifford Minor 
said the victims were thought to be postal employees 
because the shooting occurred an hour after closing, but 
a relative of the wounded man, David Grossman, said he 
didn't work there and might have stopped by for stamps 
or to pick up mail from a postal box. Joseph M. Harris 
surrendered after a 4 1/2-hour standoff with police. 
Montclair is located three hours away from New York 
City, and is no longer the safe suburb it once was. In 
1991, a fired worker killed a former supervisor and her 
boyfriennd-15 miles north of Montclair. 

Atlanta  76  54  Dallas  80  55  New Orleans 81  60  
Baltimore  67  51  Denver  78  38  New York  62  48  
Boston  63  41  Los Angeles 66  54  Philadelphia 66  53  
Chicago  51  36  Miami  83  64  Phoenix  82  61  
Columbus  76  44  Minneapolis 53  33  St. Louis  72  39  


COLD WARM STATIONARY 01995 Acc:u-Weather, Inc. 
VIII Msodaled Press 


--------------~---­
Wednesday, March 22, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Security arrests man who resists in Flanner 
By LIZ FORAN Associate News Editor 
A South Bend man was ar­rested by Notre Dame Security over spring break after a brief struggle inside of Flanner Hall, according to Charles Hurley, assistant director of Seeurity. 
Michael Darnell Hampton, 30, was arrested at 10:15 a.m. Thursday on the seventh floor of Flanner Hall and charged with burglary and resisting law enforcement after a student called security to report suspi­cious activity, Hurley said. 
A student staying in the dorm over break reported suspicious activity after Hampton walked into his room unexpectedly. 
The student reported that Hampton told him the name of a student he was looking for and then left the room, Hurley said. The student then called security. When Security discov­ered Hampton on the seventh floor, he began to flee. He was caught by an officer, who had to use pepper spray to subdue him, according to Hurty. 
Hampton was transferred to the St. Joseph County Jail, where it was discovered he was wanted on a warrant out of Skokie, Ill. charging him with robbery, Hurley said. 

Featuring choreography by Guest Artist Sue Cherry, Faculty and Students Artistic Direction by lndi Dieckgrofe • Performed by SMC Donee Workshop 
TICKfTS: 56/ADULTS; 54/SENIOR CITIZENS &GROUPS; 53/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; 52/STUDENTS TICKETS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O'LAUGHLIN AUOf!OI!ILW, OPEN FROM 9-5, MON. -FRI. DISCOVER, VISA, MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219 I 284-4626 
Knott Hall supports diversity 
By ETHAN HAYWARD Assistant News Editor 
In order to highlight the ben­efits that cultural diversity brings to campus, Knott Hall this week is sponsoring its Mul­ticultural People Week. 
According to the event's or­ganizer Darcy Yaley, Knott's Multicultural People Week is designed to convince students to think about living with oth­ers within a culturally diverse environment and that different cultural ideas exist within such an environment. She sums up the program's theme as "Wouldn't it be boring if every­one were the same?" · 
On Monday, Knott held a Na­tive People's Bead Workshop, in which participants learned how to bead. Yesterday, stu­dents attended the Plains and Pueblos presentation in Stepan Center. Free tickets were made available by Yaley, and a "Fireside Chat" was held by the presenters in LaFortune earlier in the day. 
This evening, Knott will hold a pizza dinner and and an as­sembly to come up with Knott's Creed. The creed will define Knott's "safe haven" policy, stating that all Knott residents should feel welcome in their dorm, and will be turned into a plaque for the dorm lobby. 
• HALL PRESIDENTS COUNCIL 
Asian Heritage to be celebrated 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
The author of tohe books that inspired Oliver Stone's film "Heaven and Earth" will help kick off the Second Annual Asian Heritage Week. 
Le Ly Hayslip, whose writings prompted Stone to produce the third part of his trilogy about the Vietnam conflict, will speak on Monday, March 27, in 101 DeBartolo at 7:00p.m. Admission is $1. "Heaven and Earth," a 1993 movie about the true story of a Vietnamese woman, will also be shown on March 24-25 at 7:30 and 10 p.m. Admission is free. Hayslip's appearance high­lights a week of activities sponsored by the Asian American Association, including a Taste of Asia and Variety Show, a performance by comedian Lane Nishikawa, Japanese animation cartoons, and a dance. These events are sched­uled throughout the week of April 2 -April 9. 
In other news announced at the Hall Presidents' Council meeting last night: 
• 
Students are needed to help with a spring cleaning project in the Northeast Neighborhood, according to Karen DuBay, coordinator of the project. The city of South Bend has donated land to the neighborhood to be used as a park for children, DuBay said, and people are needed to clear the area of brush and other debris. 

• 
Elections for co-chairs of the HPC for the 1995-96 academic year will be held at next Tuesday's meeting. 

• 
Applications for Freshman Orientation com­mittee members for next fall are available in the student government office, 203 LaFortune. They are due by Friday, March 31. 


Tomorrow night, there will be a discussion with a few mem­bers of the football team. 
Questions concerning cultural diversity will be asked at ran­dom. 
Friday evening, there will be poster making in the main hall­way. Students will be able to draw or write whatever they want to on a large piece of poster board. 
On Saturday night, Knott will sponsor a showing of "The Wedding Banquet", a story of a gay man from a traditional Chinese family whose father desperately wants a grandson. A discussion will follow the screening. 
• RESIDENTS HALL ASSOCIATION 
SMC planning AnTostal week 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI Saint Mary's News Ediwr 
Saint Mary's Hesidence Hall Association is working to finalize plans for the College's in­volvement in AnTostal. 
The HilA board has decided to donate funds to Holy Cross Hall to support their ell'orts to bring in bands for a Block Party to be held on the Holy Cross lawn. HHA will donate money towards Le Mans Hall to be used towards their spirit week as well. 
Hegina Hall, McCandless Hall, and possibly Augusta Hall will receive funds as a group to plan an activity to be held on April 27. This event has not yet been planned, but will be pre­sented to individual hall councils this week. 
Earlier plans to include hall competition games during AnTostal have been revised. Several HHA members voiced their concern that participation would not be that great. 
"It is difficult to get participation because every one is so busy at the end of April. Even if things sound fun, not many people may have time," said RHA member Leigh-Ann Hutehinson. 
In other RHA news: 
Hecently Regina Hall has been having prob­lems with mice. The residents of the third floor of the south wing have seen many mice since returning from spring break, although Maintenance promised to exterminate during the break. 
HHA members said that they would contact Housing and Maintanence to express their con­cern and dissatisfaction. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographer and editors. join The Observer staff. 

T 
~IK ~ D.®IK IR1UN§ 



PLUS 
lMILEWALK SATURDAY, APRIL 1,11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER 

T-SHIRTS TO ALL REGISTRANTS REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPOinS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 I>AY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT <CIEIIRIImi'lYJA~ Ilii AIPIWEL 
SPONSORED BY 


-----~ -~-------------------------~-~­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
Degrees 
continued from page 1 
1981. With Goizueta and re­cently retired president Donald Keough (chairman emeritus of Notre Dame's board of Trustees) at the helm, Coca­Cola's profits quintupled and the stock surged 14-fold in the 1980s. 
Goizueta and Notre Dame's president, Rev. Edward Malloy, were among the founding di­rectors of the Points of Light Foundation. 
• Alan Greenspan, chairman, board of governors of the Fed­eral Reserve System, doctor of laws. Appointed chairman of the Federal Reserve in 1987, Greenspan is in his second four-year term as the head of t)le central banking agency that is responsible for con­trolling the nation's money supply. 
Greenspan earned bachelor's, master's and doc­toral degrees from New York University. Prior to his appointment to the Federal Re­serve board, he served as chairman and president of the economic consulting firm Townsend-Greenspan & Co. and advised the Ford and Reagan administrations on eco­nomic policy issues. 
• William Hickey, president, Saint Mary's College, doctor of laws. A Notre Dame graduate with master's and doctoral de­grees in biology, Hickey is in his ninth year as president of Notre Dame's "sister" school. An insect geneticist, he moved from teaching to administra­tion in 1972 when he was appointed Saint Mary's vice president for academic affairs. He served a dean of the faculty from 1975-85 and twice was acting president of the college before being appointed to the position full time in 1986. 
He has been active in numer­ous community organizations, including the South Bend/Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce, the United Way, the Michiana Arts and Science Council, and the South Bend Symphony Orchestra. 
• Dolores Leckey, executive director, Secretariat for Family, Laity, Women, and Youth of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops, doctor of laws. 
A senior staff member of the bishops' conference for 17 years, Leckey has been in her current post since 1988. She previously worked in public and private schools and col­leges, on a seminary faculty, in educational and public televi­sion, as a consultant to parish­es and dioceses, and as a con­ference and retreat leader. She holds a bachelor;'s degree from Saint John's University and a master's from George Washington University. A pop­ular lecturer and writer, she is the author of several books, including "The Ordinary Way: A Family Spirituality," "Laity Stirring the Church" and "Women and Creativity." 
• Pedro Rossello, governor of Puerto Rico, doctor of laws. A 1966 alumnus of Notre Dame, Rossello won five Puerto Rico men's tennis championships and captained the Notre Dame tennis team as a senior, when he was selected the University's top scholar-athlete. 
He earned his M.D. from Yale University in 1970 and was a pediatric surgeon in his home­land of more than 25 years. Entering the political arena in 1988, he became chairman of Puerto Rico's pro-statehood party in 1991 and a year later was elected governor in a land­slide. 
Since taking office he has cracked down on crime, restored English as an official language along with Spanish, and launched reforms in health care and public education. 
• Ray Siegfried II, chairman of the board and chief execu­tive officer of the NORDAM Group in 1969 and has devel­oped the Tulsa, Oklahoma com­pany into a multimillion-dollar aerospace and defense contrac­tor. 
He is active in numerous civic and business organizations, including the Tulsa Chamber of Commerce, the U.S. Amateur Boxing Federation and Tulsa's Day Center for the Homeless. He also serves on the boards of the Universities of Portland and Tulsa. Siegfried Hall, a wom­en's residence hall at Notre Dame, is the gift of Siegfried and his late father, Robert Siegfried. 
• Jose Zalaquett, human rights activist, doctor of laws. A Chilean lawyer and interna­tionally known human rights advocate, Zalaquett was imprisoned and then exiled from his homeland from 1976­86 for providing legal assis­tance to prisoners of the Pinochet regime. 
He has served in several posi­tions with Amnesty In­ternational and currently chairs the organization's Mandate Committee. 
He is on the faculty of the Inter-American Institute of Human Rights in Costa Rica and the University of Chile Law School. 
He served for three years on the National Commission for Truth and Reconciliation, a panel resP.,2nsible for docu­menting ana reporting on the worst human rights abuses of the Pinochet regime. The English language edition of the commission's report was pub­lished by Notre Dame Press and presented in October 1993 at a ceremony attended by Za­laquett at the Notre Dame Law School. 
Joining the honorary degree recipients at the Commence­ment exercises will be the 1995 recipient of Notre Dame's Laetare Medal, to be announced March 26. 
MBA 
continued from page 1 
There were five judges -one academic judge from Texas A&M University and four busi­ness judges from Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan. 
Objectives of the competition, which was sponsored by Fannie May Corporation, were to provide an integrative forum for the MBA experience, to set forth a meaningful inter-uni­versity competition along with a beneficial learning experi­ence, to encourage required, business, analytical and com­munication skills, and to foster and develop relationships with MBA programs of competing universities. 
In speaking of the perfor­mance of the Notre Dame team, Conway said, "If weak in anything, it was their question and answer period." However, he added, "I thought Notre Dame did very well, and they were strong in their pre­sentation." 

Money may influence opinions on implants 
By DANIEL HANEY 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

Some doctors say silicone breast implants are perfectly safe. Others argue they make women sick. But on this they can all agree: The money for offering these opinions is excel­lent. 
"This has been a growth industry for rheumatologists," said Dr. Bruce Cronstein. Himself included. 
This New York University Medical Center specialist, like many prominent in rheumatol­ogy, has chosen sides in the breast implant controversy. 
Cronstein happens to be a consultant for Dow Corning, the biggest maker of silicone breast implants. Many of his colleagues have joined the other team, working for the plaintiff attorneys suing Dow Corning and other manufactur­ers. 
No one denies these doctors believe in their positions, whether for implants or against. 
But accepting fees that range from $300 to $600 an hour at least raises the appearance that money might influence opinions. 
The scientific data about sili­cone's health effects are murky, and while there is no clear evidence that implants are harmful, no one can say beyond all possible doubt that they are completely safe, either. 
A definite answer is obviously important to the estimated 1 million American women who have had their breasts enlarged or replaced with sili­cone. 
Yet many worry the issue will never be settled 


tn1poorta 
Jewelry, Accessories, Clothing, and much more! Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Brazil 
Thailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Clearance Sale! Many New Items! 
3i'o of profits fund the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995). Any help with donations welcome! 
LaFortune Room 108 Mar. 20-25 St. Mary's Leman Hall Mar. 27-31 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 
..---------------~-------------~--·--­
Wednesday, March 22, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Relgion in public school Iceberg debating to begin 
Observer Staff Repon 
system focus of fights 
By SALLY STREFF BUZBEE 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. 
Liberals and Christian con­s{Jrvatives may never agree on how to run America's public schools. But they should, for children's sakes. keep their lights from getting ugly, promi­nent members of both groups say. 
Worried that a bitter "cul­ture war" is hurting schools, 17 groups-from the Christian Coalition to People for the American Way -pledged Tuesday to improve communi­cation, respect each others' po­sitions and work to avoid law­suits. 
The agreement, although mostly symbolic, is the only way to begin resolving difficult issues like prayer in school, the teaching of creationism and whether tax money should go to private schools. both sides said. 
'This is not easy," said Forest Montgomery of the National Association of Evangelicals. "But it is a lirst step." 
The new cooperation might affect upcoming debates in Congress over school vouchers and prayer. But its main impact will be on the religious disputes that have torn many local school districts, organiz­ers predicted. 
"This statement is eagerly :~.waited," said Charles Haynes, a visiting scholar at The Freedom Forum First Amendment Center at Vanderbilt University, who brought the groups together with help from the nonpartisan Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development. 
"People in Vista, Calif., and in many other communities have been saying, 'We want it now,"' Haynes said. The Vista school district near San Diego has been fighting over evolu­tion and creationism. 
"This is going to give all these local districts something to look at, something to help guide them," Haynes said. 
Several prominent groups ­including the conservative Focus on the Family and the liberal American Civil Liberties Union -did not sign the state­ment of principles. 
The 0 bserver 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Advertising Account Executive Do you want: 
•sales 
experience? 

•steady 
performance compensation? 

•a 
fun place to work? 

•practical 
business experience? 

•help 
with your resume? 


Ifso, calljohn at 1-6900 or 4-1023 or drop offa resume to 314 LaFortune by Friday, March 24th at 5:00PM 
Campus orators will have the opportunity to test their verbal skills at the annual Notre Dame Iceburg Debates, which begin this week. 
The debates begin Wednes­day evening at 9 p.m. in the dorms of the home teams. The debate topic for round one is "Resolved: The University of Notre Dame should recognize the organization GLND/SMC as an official University group." 
According to the debate handbook, "The Iceberg De­bates were founded during the 1988-89 academic year as an undergraduate debate competi­tion on social justice issues. The primary goal of the compe­tition is increased student awareness of key local, national and international issues." 
Round Two will be Monday, March 27, and Round Three will take place on Wednesday, March 29. The topic for both debates will be "Resolved: The United States government should cease using affirmative action as its official hiring pol­icy." The Iceberg quarterfinals will occur on Monday, April 3, with the topic "Resolved: The 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 
631-5323 


Alumni CAVANAUGH Howard PANGBORN B 
Roman Catholic Church shou allow priests to marry." Semifinals are on April 6 and finals on April 11.] 
The issue for the final is not released until after the semifi-
Hoop -there it is! 
Sorin B-P Pangborn A BADIN Grace STANFORD Flanner 
nals have been debated. According to the Iceburg De­bate handbook, teams consist of four team members. at least two of which must reside in the dorm they represent. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 


Kevin Locke, Native American hoop dancer, talks and demon­strates a sample of his talent for an audience of students and fac­
ulty. 
Introducing . .. 
a revolutionary new 
GMAT course: 

TARGETED TRAINING 
The most customized, flexible approach to GMAT study ever. 
Kaplan gives you 
• 
live classes 

• 
home study materials 

• 
a training library 

• 
extra-help workshops 

• 
software and on-line help sessions 


Kaplan will create an individualized study plan that targets your needs. 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
geta higher score 
KAPLAN 

--~-~-~------~-----------·--~ 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
Gore assures forgiveness of Jordan's debt 

isfied" with Gore's almost un­
Hussein shows 
equivocal pledge that Washing­ton would write off $488 mil­
disappointment 
lion this year owed by Jordan, 
even though Republicans wantabout U.S. aid to stretch out the process 
longer. By TERENCE HUNT 
However, the king, who
Associated Press 
signed a peace agreement with 
Israel last Oct. 26, made clear
AMMAN, Jordan 
he wants more from Washing­
King Hussein expressed 
ton than $43 million in military 
muted disappointment about 
and economic aid, which is a
promised U.S. economic and military aid fraction of the $3 billion Israel 
receives and the $2.2 billion
Tuesday even promised Egypt. 
as Vice "First of all because it was a
President AI commitment," the king said,
Gore brought "and secondly because of the
firm assur­ances that leadership role of the U.S. in 
terms of addressing similar
Washington W()uld forgive tl problems with many other 
friends throughout the world.
all of 
We need to begin to pick up as
Jordan's offi­rapidly as possible and bring
cial debt. 
The twin issues of debt for­about the change in the quality 
of life of people in the era ofgiveness and direct aid were at peace."
the top of the agenda, along The king said he and Gorewith Middle East peace 
addressed the issue in a "very,prospects, as Hussein and Gore very frank and very open" way.
met at the king's hillside 
"They realize, as we do, therepalace. 
is a need to do everything pos­At a joint news conference, sible." He said it was "a validHussein said he was "fully sat-
U.S. Navy watching Iranian boats closely 
By SUSANNE SCHAFER concentration of weapons in 
Associated Press the Strait of Hormuz could cre­
ate serious problems in the 
MANAMA, Bahrain strategic waterway, where 50 
Iran's new Russian-made percent of the world's oil is 
submarines and Chinese attack transported. 
patrol boats pose a "growing Redd said the Iranian sub­
threat" to shipping in the Strait marines were seen firing torpe­
of Hormuz, U.S. Navy officials does last fall and have been ex­
said today. ecuting maneuvers in combina­
"We're watching them very tion with Iranian warplanes 
closely," Defense Secretary and other surface ships. 
William Perry told reporters "The sophistication level is 
today during a visit .to the air­rising," Redd said of the 
craft carrier USS Constellation. Iranian submarine capabilities. 
Perry was briefed on the new Redd said U.S. naval forces 
Iranian capabilities in the are able to "handle all those 
Persian Gulf during meetings threats individually" but that 
here with the top Navy com­collectively they pose an ever­
mander in the region, Vice increasing problem for nations 
Adm. Scott Redd. in the region. 
The three-star admiral told 
Perry and reporters traveling The admiral said the Iranians 
with him that the Iranians now have accumulated a number of 
have two Kilo-class diesel sub­weapon systems in the Hormuz 
marines and may be getting a region such as surface-to-air 
third in the near future. and surface-to-surface mis­
The Iranian navy has also siles, as well as older U.S.­
just received five Chinese-made made F -14 fighter aircraft. 
Houdong patrol boats, which And the submarines, which 
could be armed with cruise he described as "very silent," 
missiles, the admiral said. are able to lay mines in the 
"It's a growing threat to shallow waters of the entrance 
naval forces in particular," to the strategic gulf. 
Redd said of the Iranian "If you look at the systems 
weaponry. they have, it's a pretty signifi­
He told Perry that the cant capability," Redd said. 

WEEKEND 

RACQUETBALL 
TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY MARCH 31 & APRIL 1 JOYCE CENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions T -Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Thursday, March 30 $6.00 Fee 
question" whether Jordan was satisfied with U.S. assistance. 
Gore did not promise that aid to Jordan would match that of Israel and Egypt, but said, "If Jordan is capable of taking the bold, courageous and dramatic step that it took to further the cause of peace in the Middle East, I can assure you that we are capable of keeping our word." 
The king will visit Washington for talks next Monday with President Clinton. 
Gore arrived here from Cairo after a four-hour tour of the an­cient treasures of Luxor. With his wife, Tipper, and 12-year­old son, Albert III, the vice president climbed through an­cient Egyptian temples and the tombs of legendary pharaohs and queens. 
"This is a magnificent place," he remarked. 
The vice president also is vis­iting Oman, Saudi Arabia and Israel on his five-nation trip and meeting in Jericho with Palestine Liberation Organiza­tion chief Yasser Arafat. 
Gore delivered his debt-relief promise during a lightly at­tended speech before Jordanian diplomats and members of the military, government and intel­ligence. 
One-third of the seats in the Jordanian Cultural Center were empty when the vice president arrived, and workers hurriedly tried to remove rows of chairs. 
U.S. Embassy officials ex­plained that many Jordanians were attending celebrations marking the 27th anniversary of the Karameh battle in which Jordanian forces repelled an Is­raeli attack. 
"Jordan has taken great risks for peace and the United States will demonstrate by its actions that we are at Jordan's side, now and in the future," Gore said. 
"You have my pledge ... and that of the president that we will fulfill our commitment on debt forgiveness and our pledge to help Jordan meet its defense needs." 
The Clinton administration pledged last year to forgive Jor­dan's debt as an inducement for Amman to make peace with Israel. 
However, in a budget-cutting mood, the House voted to cut Jordan's debt forgiveness to $50 million, while the Senate limited it to $50 million this year and $225 million more later. 
Those moves have been opposed both by the Clinton administration and by Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. 
"We are committed to full debt forgiveness in 1995 and we will meet our commit­ments," the vice president said, drawing Jordanian applause. 
Gore also renewed his con­demnation of the terrorist at­tack that killed two Jewish set­tlers in the West Bank com­munity of Hebron. 
"The voices of rejection are voices of the past," Gore said in a nation where more than half of the 3.8 million people are Palestinians. 
"The counsels of despair have no place in the future of this re­gion." 
He pledged that the Uhited States will help build free mar­kets and economic ties through­out the Middle East, saying there is enormous potential for commerce among Jordan, Israel, the Palestinians, Egypt and other countries. 

Escaped felon surrenders 
Associated Press 
KALAMAZOO 
The second of two accused 
felons who escaped from the 
Kalamazoo Regional 
Psychiatric Hospital has sur­
rendered, police said. 
Allen Milobar, 2 5, turned 
himself in to police in his 
native Kentwood, according to 
Lt. Donald Verhage of the 
Kalamazoo Department of 
Public Safety. 
The second fugitive, Stacey 
Bowers, 19, of Covert, was ar­
rested Monday on a shoplifting charge in Indianapolis, the de­partment said. 

Milobar was being held in the Kent County Jail. Bowers was to be returned to Kalamazoo County once extra­dition proceedings are com­plete, said a sergeant with the public safety department who asked not to be identified. 
Bowers is charged in the November 1994 slaying of John Henry IV, 16, of Covert, whose body was found in southwest Allegan County. 
Milobar is charged with receiving and concealing 
stolen property. 
The two escaped Wednesday from the psychiatric hospital, where each had been held less than two weeks. 
Hospital Director James Coleman said Bowers and Milobar last were seen about 
7:40 p.m. Wednesday by staff and were discovered missing about 8:02 p.m. when medica­tion was to be administered. The hospital grounds then were searched for 20 minutes. In a preliminary report on the escape, hospital officials said employees made no mistakes. 


Wednesday, March 22, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
InvestigatiOns on subway gas attack continue 
Police focus on secret religious group in Tokyo 
By MARl YAMAGUCHI Associated Press 
TOKYO 

In a dramatic dawn strike two days after a deadly nerve­gas attack on Tokyo's subway system, thousands of police na­tionwide swooped down on fa­cilities of a secretive religious group accused of making poi­son gas in the past. 
At one site. an officer carried a canary, apparently hoping that any toxic fumes would kill it first and warn police. 
More than 2,500 police wear­ing riot gear and special pro­tective clothing raided at least 25 of the Aum Shinri Kyo's facilities in Tokyo and other parts of Japan. 
. Police encountered little seri­ous resistance. 
Authorities surrounded the group's live-story Tokyo head­quarters at about 6:15a.m. in a quiet, partly commercial neigh­borhood of Tokyo. 
There were scuffles as ofli­cers pulled some sect members from the building, some shoe­less. 
Police overran the group's national headquarters at a rural commune, also with only token resistance. 
Officials were clearly han­dling the group with kid gloves. They refused to link the raids directly to the nerve-gas attack, inatead citing the unsolved kid­napping of a public official. 
Police appeared to be exercis­ing restraint in order not to up­set the group, which has com­plained bitterly in the past about rough treatment. Police even entered the building through the basement at the group's request. 
The group has denied in­volvement in the attack Mon­day, in which a poison gas identified police as sarin was released simultaneously in sev­eral downtown Tokyo subway stations and cars. 
Eight people were killed and nearly 5,000 people injured. About 700 people remained hospitalized, 75 of them in criti­cal condition. 
In the raid Wednesday on the group's facilities in rural Kamikuishiki, about 68 miles from Tokyo, about 1,200 police in full riot gear raided the group's compound. 
The police assembled in waves and marched in with protective shields held high. One officer carried a canary, whose higher metabolism would make it more susceptible than humans to toxic gases. 
Officers scuffled with some group members, but two hours after the start of the operation were clearly in control of the site. An unknown number of the group's members were be­ing held inside. 
Other facilities searched in­cluded sites in Tokyo and Fuji­nomiya in Shizuoka prefecture 75 miles west of the capital. Po­lice wore gas masks in the search at Kotoku and Ya­manashi. 
At the Tokyo headquarters, some sect members gathered outside during the raid. "It's unfair!" they shouted. Group members took photos every time police touched a group member as they led them from the building. 
Across town at another main Aum building, some onlookers seemed to be glad police were moving in. 

s·alister agents: I Blood agents: II Choking agents: Mustard gas, lewisite. Hydrogen cyanide. Chlorine, phosgene. Damage skin and mucous Block movement of Irritate respiratory tract, membranes. Harm oxygen to cells, eyes. Can severely respiratory tract, lungs, damaging tissues and damage lung tissue, eyes. Prolonged exposure possibly causing death. ultimately causing death. can cause death. 
Source: Center for Defense Information AP{ferry Kola 
"These cult people are scary. you count making us all afraid When you come to a neighbor­a contribution," said Tsutomu hood, you're expected to con­Takahashi, a retired neighbor­tribute something. They cer­hood resident who was watch­tainly haven't done that, unless ing the activities. 
NEEDAJOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seekjng energetic, responsible, caring people to join our Kidi<J.re child care staff. 0 As a KidKarc registry staff member, you'd be "on call" to fill staffing assignments for area families in need of child care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. Call 273-2273 to find out more! 
Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Accent Writers Accent Music Critics Accent Literary Critics Accent Copy Editors Assistant Accent Editors 
Please submit a one page statement ofintent to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 p. m.March 24 th. Call 631-4540 for more information. 
Vietnam to receive credit Associated Press  
HANOI, Vietnam MasterCard International has licensed four Vietnamese banks to sell credit cards in Vietnam, where many people prefer to keep their money hidden at home instead of entrusting it to state-run banks. Some lost what sav­ings they had when several credit cooperatives collapsed in the 1980s. Mastercard announced Tuesday that it would become the first inter­national company to issue credit cards in this nation of 72 million residents. Donald Van Stone, Mastercard's Singapore-based senior vice president for Southeast Asia, said he hoped a consumer credit culture could develop in Vietnam.  


The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring BARTENDERS for the 95-96 season. 
Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21+ by September, 1995. 
What does it mean to be Catholic? 
Let's do lunch ... 
Wednesday, March 22, 1995

pageS The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
UN to discuss gender equality Killers facing lethal 
In an address to delegates, the world, some observers say
Politics, health U.N. Secretary-General Boutros it may be easier to find funding injection in Illinois 
Boutros-Ghali said: "We must and commitments than it was
and education prove the critics wrong when at the recent poverty summit, By MIKE ROBINSON have executed more than one they claim that the internation­which closed with a non-bind­Associated Press person on a single day since al community has neither the ing plan. the Supreme Court allowed
to top talks 
means nor the will to advance "While there will be some JOLIET, Ill. capital punishment to resume By LOUIS MEIXLER the situation' of women world­criticism that this is just a U.N. Two killers awaited lethal in 1976. Associated Press wide." circus ... it will be much harder injection early Wednesday in Texas put two men to death 
The preparatory meeting to sweep issues of women's Illinois' first double execution Jan. 31. Arkansas executed UNITED NATIONS opened in controversy last equality under the rug in the in more than 42 years. two on May 11 and three on In Manila's shantytowns, Dr. week, with the Vatican trying to United States," said Jeffrey James Free and Hernando Aug. 3. Guy Estrada helps vaccinate bar four groups that favor Laurenti, an analyst with the Williams were to die an hour On Tuesday, a federal women who earn a living pick­abortion rights and China at­United Nations Association of apart at Stateville Correc­appeals rejected F·ree's bid 
ing through trash. In Nigerian tempting to block several Ti­the United States. tional Center. Free was to go for a stay of execution, and towns, Dr. Adepeju Olukoya betan and Taiwanese groups first, shortly after midnight.' his lawyers looked to the U.S. teaches women to run pharma­from the conference. The Beijing meeting follows Free, 41, was convicted of Supreme Court. The high cies and diagnose diseases. A U.N. commission agreed last year's population confer­murdering an office worker. court turned Williams down 
.But Estrada and Olukoya say late Monday to accredit the ence in Cairo, where countries Williams, 40, pleaded guilty to on Friday. their efforts are not enough. abortion rights groups, agreed to a plan urging rich abducting, raping and shoot­Williams, who is black, con­
They and 2,500 others, at a Catholics for a Free Choice, nations to contribute $5.7 bil­ing to death a childbirth tended that blacks were sys­meeting to prepare for the USA, and its three sister orga­lion by 2000 toward family instructor he had held prison­tematically excluded from the September World Conference nizations in Latin America, but planning, reproductive health er in the trunk of his car for jury that decided he was eligi­on Women, want commitments is still reviewing the status of and AIDS prevention. 36 hours. ble for the death penalty. 
and funding for the U.N. draft the Tibetan and· Taiwanese or­The draft agenda for the Both killings were in 1978. Both men also argued that 
agenda that calls for gender ganizations. Beijing conference calls for in­The dual execution was a the jury instructions were too equality in health, education The conference in Beijing will creasing the role of women in matter of coincidence; the vague. and politics. be the fourth world meeting on government, eliminating wage state Supreme Court set the In Nebraska, double mur­
With governments strapped women since 197 5 and the sec­inequalities and boosting their execution dates. derer Robert Williams, 58, for cash, the doctors predict a ond major U.N. conference this educational opportunities. It The executions were to be also faced execution after difficult fight. year. calls for more funding but does the third and fourth since midnight Wednesday. "When you have words and The Beijing meeting is not set targets for nations. Illinois reinstated the death The U.S. Supreme Court no commitment behind it, it expected to draw 1,300 advo­Estrada, the Filipino doctor, penalty in 1977. Illinois' last denied a stay on Tuesday. He 
remains words," said Olukoya, cacy groups and 25,000 repre­says the conference should at double execution was Oct. 17, was to go to the electric chair a representative of the sentatives from 100 countries. least demand that governments 1952. for shooting two women to Women's Health Coalition of With women's issues at the impose legislation protecting Only Texas and Arkansas death in 1977. Nigeria. top of political agendas across women's rights. 
Clean earth treaty to be negotiated 
By PAUL RAEBURN Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Nearly three years have passed since the world pledged to combat global warming. Next week, the pledge comes due. 
Now it's time for the real work foreshadowed by the 1992 U.N. Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. 
More than 100 nations will sit down in Berlin to devise treaty regulations that could cost them billions. 
The Framework Convention on Climate Change, signed in June 1992 amid the pomp of the Earth Summit, is one of the most far-reaching environmental accords ever negotiated. It could force drastic reductions in fossil fuel use if tough regulations are adopted in Berlin. 
Or the treaty could become, in the words of one environ­mental group, little more than "an international joke."' 
Critics of the treaty say sharp cuts in fossil fuel burn­ing would cripple economic growth. 
Cedar Point has 3,500 swruner jobs available for 1995. Housing available for those 18 &: older. 
Earn up to ss.30 QD hour. Interviews wlll be held at 

University of Notre Dame Lafortune Student Center Sorln Room 
Thursday, March 23, 1995 10:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. 
No appointment necessary. For more 
lnfonnatlon, call (4:19) 627-2245. EOE 
~Porm
AMUSI;MENT P'ARKIIUSORT 

CLASS OF '96 
This Is Our Last Chance! 
The Senior Class Officers are accepting applications DJr positions on the following committees: 
• Alumni[Senior Club -Class Trips • Fundra1sing 
-Senior Concerns

·Publicity 
-On-Campus Activities

·Service 
-Graduation

• Senior Week/ Welcome Back Week ·Class of '96 Alumni Club 
Get Involved -The More, The Merrier!!' Applications can be picked up in the Student Goven1ment Office, and are due by Friday, March 24th. 
Kevin Paul Nale 
Kate

KUWIK BERRETI'INI EBEl.ING CRISHAMPresident Vice-President Treasurer 
Secretar~' 

TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! 
Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1996-97. 
All freshmen, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams 
Monday evening, April 3, 1995 at 7:00pm in room 126 DeBartolo 
******A Great Notre Dame Tradition of Winning Fulbrights****** 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 22, 1995 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne ~·ry Joseph Riley 
News Editor .•.............................. David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbm Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Acunt Editor ..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor _ ................................ Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du l.ac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily r<llect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediwr. Accent Ediwr, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediwr. Commentaries, lencrs and Inside: Columns present the views of the: amhors, and not necessarlly those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The fre< expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.l@nd.ed u General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
page 9 

Notre Dame will do the right thing... eventually 
Dear Editor: 
I wasn't planning to enter the on-going debate on whether Notre Dame should officially recognize homosexuals because I realize that the University is too often prone to hiding behind its offi­cial Catholicism as a talisman to ward ofT its more humane Christian impulses, especially when official acceptance of such impulses might offend the Church hierarchy and damage its image in the eyes of wealthy potential benefactors. 
But when Professor Rice in his latest 
.. reincarnation of Savanarola equates recognition of homosexuals with recog­nition of Nazis and bestiality (The Ob­server, March 6). I can refrain no longer. The only point of agreement between Professor Hice and me is that students here are entitled to the truth, which truth, according to him, is that Catholic teaching clearly condemns homosexuali­ty as a disorder, and that therefore any accommodation of this disorder (by sym­pathy, pastoral care, etc.) is also a disor­der-hence his condemnation of Vice­President O'Hara's futile attempts to reconcile (without possibility of success) the University's Catholic policy with the Christian impulses of most students, fac­ulty, and lesser clergy. To Professor Rice. truth and morality are a simple matter of simple logic: the Church is infallible in matters of faith and morals. The Church teaches that homosexuality is a moral disorder, a sin against nature. Ergo, homosexuality is a sin. But truth is seldom simple; indeed it is far more complex (especially in matters of morality) than Professor Rice allows for. The good Jesuits taught me that a syllogism may be valid and yet be false; such is the case with Professor Rice's conclusion that homosexuality is a sin on the basis of his unproven proposition that the Church is infallible in matters of morals. Nor could he prove it if he tried, for although the Church has arrogated to itself infallibility in both faith and morals, it never has in its long history, 
to my knowledge, defined ex cathedra a single moral doctrine. 
How could it when the Church's basis for morality, the nature of man, is con­ceived differently in every age. When I was young, a Catholic suicide was auto­matically excluded from burial in conse­crated ground, a practice which ended after we learned from Freud and mod­ern psychology how the unconscious may affect the human will, hence sin. When I came to Notre Dame in 1958, the books of almost every author worth reading, including Freud and many life­long practicing Catholics, were confined to a cage in the old library. forbidden to be read by students. or even by profes­sors without priestly permission lest the books do irreparable harm to our faith or morals. 
More apropos to the current debate is the Church's condemnation during the Middle Ages (and beyond) of all sexual passion, even sexual pleasure between husband and wife. The Church in its belated wisdom has since changed its moral teachings on suicide, the dangers of forbidden books, and the disorder of pleasure in sex on the basis of its evolv­ing understanding of what constitutes human nature, but how could it so change if its earlier teachings were infallible? 
That the Church is and has been all­too-fallible in matters of morals is evi­dent from its own history-including the fraudulent Donation of Constantine, the cause of the medieval Church's too worldly, corrupt, and cynical struggles to maintain temporal dominion over the papal states; the mutual fulminations of rival popes during the Great Schism; and (my favorite) the Pope's conferring of medals of honor on those defenders of the faith responsible for the infamous massacre of French Hugenots asleep in their own beds on St. Bartholomew's Day, 1572. A thousand other examples of such official Catholic moral turpitude flood to mind, but why belabor the point; i.e. that Catholic morality and Christianity are not always the same? 
But that was then, this is now: the Church has cleaned up its act since the Reformation. Perhaps so, but not entire­ly, especially when power, economics, or the status quo enter the equation as evi­denced in modern times by the Pope's silence during the Holocaust and by the countless Catholic bishops (with the notable exception of Archbishop Romero) who generally sided with the powers of oppression, most recently in Argentina, Nicaragua, and Haiti. The norms of morality are almost always bent to serve the power, pleasure, and profit of those exercising power. 
It's not much different here at Notre Dame. Homosexuals are oppressed by our Catholic officials because they are a powerless minority, one of the few left in society we can feel comfortable oppress­ing. If Professor Rice and our adminis­trators truly want to be consistently moral on the basis of Catholic teaching and Christianity, they could begin by condemning all disorders of the Notre Dame family. They would then condemn the gluttony of our students who drink themselves to oblivion every weekend with tacit approval; they would condemn and exclude every student who has ever experienced a disordered inclination to indulge in heterosexual sex outside of marriage (we'd have to close down the University); they would have to condemn the many adulterous faculty who have divorced and re-married; they would have to condemn those who put strange gods before them in their rampant materialistic pursuits; and they would have to condemn all worshippers of false gods-the bulemics and anorexics who bend their bodies to the Goddess Thinness, and all those who elevate the host of praise and adoration to sports heroes, swim-suit models, movie and rock stars. When they condemn all these disorders, they can with consistent moral conscience condemn homosexu­als. 
Will any of my argument effect a change at Notre Dame? No, it's unlikely that our administrators can, or will, alter its Catholic posture to homosexuals much before the Church hierarchy comes to realize that its cur­rent teaching on homosexuality no longer conforms to truth. That will take time. It took the Church almost three centuries to recognize Galileo. And it no longer forbids us to read any and all books in open stacks. For most of its long history, Notre Dame excluded women in fear that they, those daugh­ters of Eve, would corrupt its stalwart all male student body. But come they did in 1972 and Notre Dame is a better place for it, except of course that their presence provides an occasion for sin, or to paraphrase Professor Rice, a disor­dered inclination. 

So, Notre Dame has and can change in the face of its often narrow Catholicism. Eventually, most often Notre Dame does the right thing. 
ROBERT LORDI 
Professor Department of English 

• 000NESBURY 
GARRY TRUDEAU  • QUOTE OF THE DAY  
Y&AH, §HAKIN'IN MY 130015! COM& ON, atN'TON 15N'TA PlAYeR ANYMOR£.' Ht5!R.­Ra.&VANT 707Ht ~.'  " A. little Madness in the 1-\spring is wholesome even for the King."  

ti.I!TH THIS ANTl-HANO­OUT 8/U, WHAT tl.l& Nor<MAL-AM&/?JCAN5ARE §AYING70U8ER.­
AL-Tl?A/7()RS /§: "tOOK., 7Hl31<& R£AU-Y15NO ff?/3& L.UNCH.''' 
MR. 5P&AK/iR., 
YOU TAU( ABOUT 
YOUR. 81/l... UK& ITS 
A FAITACCOMP£1.' 
.AR.tNT Ya.J CON­
ca<Na?Aeaff 
A POSSIBU3 
WTO~ 
-Emily Dickinson 
....1 

--~------~--------------­
r 
ACCENT
page 10 Wednesday, March 22, 1995 

I
rish jigs. Frosty mugs of German beer. Men in kilts playing bag pipes as you 
turn the corner. These are just some of the experiences that Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have while on the London Program. This summer over 40 students will be partici­pating in the culture packed European excursion that takes ofT from New York on May 24, under the direction of Dr. Black, a Saint Mary's history professor as well as director and founder of the London and Rome summer programs for 22 years. 
During their month in England, students will spend a full week in Ireland. Their first night there is one that they will never forget. According to Dr. Stefancic, a Saint Mary's histo­ry professor who has gone on the program in past years, this first night is, "a great time to break away from traditional ways." After all, what better place to learn a new trarfitinn than in a medieval castle in Limerick? Dinner the second evening is not quite as unusual, but offers students the opportu­nity to test out the student cafe­teria at University College and see how it compares to those of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
After the castles and cafete­rias of Limerick, it is time to niove on to Dublin. While here. students will have the opportu­nity to see all of the major his­torical sights. From the Abbey Theater to Dublin Castle and St. Patrick's Cathedral, students will have the chance to see and do it all. 
On June 1, it is time to put down your Guinness and put on your Shetland wools as you tour Scotland. While here, the stu­dents have the opportunity to visit everything from Holyrood Palace to St. Andrews for a look 
CJ'fie London and !l{pme Programs offer a fiost of e~citing adventures 
By LESLIE FIELD Accent Writer 


The Observer/Courtesy of the London Program 
Breathtaking scenery and unforgettable experiences create a lifetime of memories. 
at the world's first golf course. After London, it is off to Paris Abby Fleming, a Saint Mary's Edinburgh is Dr. Stefancic's lo-for the last leg of the trip. sophomore who will be going cation of choice. "It just cap-From June 19 to June 23, stu-on the program this summer is tures you right away as you see dents will be able to visit looking forward to her business the' castle on the hill right famous historical sights such as course in London. "It will be a above you." the Eiffel Tower, the Arc de great opportunity to learn 
While in London, students Triomphe, the Sorbonne and about international business will be able to visit Westminster the Latin Quarter. and meet with executives. We Abbey, the Bri.tish Museum, will be able to tour Guinness, Buckingham Palace, the House Although there is rarely a meet with executives from of Parliament, Trafalgar language barrier, Michele Barney Woolen Mills and meet Square, the National Gallery, Wegner got a taste of what it with other high profile firms." St. Paul's Cathedral, and the felt like to be an American in After the London Program, Bank of England, just to name Paris. In her broken French, Abby, like many students, will some highlights. Michele she asked where the nearest be traveling on for another Wegner, a Saint Mary's junior bathroom was and a man kind-month of European history who went on the London ly led her to a pet shop where through the Rome Program. Program last year, describes it she realized that her French This is the eighteenth year that as "an experience worth tak-wasn't as great as she thought. the Rome Program has been in ing." Being of Irish and French C'est la vie! existence. background, Wegner enjoyed While on the London While in Rome, students will learning about her roots. She, Program, students can earn continue to take classes offered like many students. felt right at credits in business, education, in modern languages and busi­home. history and psychology courses. ness. They will travel to France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy. While in Germany, students will make a half-day visit to the medieval city of Rothenburg. Their next stop will be in Heidelberg for a visit to Germany's oldest university. They will also see Rheinfall, Europe's largest waterfall. 
On June 28, they will depart for Switzerland, arriving in Lucerne with enough time to shop and do some sightseeing. They will drive through the Swiss Alps, the St. Gotthard Pass and the Italian Lake District. 
On July 1, the group will de­part to Vicenza where a visit to the Renaissance Olympian Theater is in store. 
Next comes Venice and the famous Clock Tower, Ravenna with a visit to the tomb of Galla and Dante's tomb and then it is ofT to Florence. 
From July 8-17, students will be spending a great amount of time in Rome and Assisi. They will also be stopping in Spoleto where they will be able to visit the Bridge of Towers, the Rocca and the Cathedral. 
In Assisi, the tours will range from the Basilica of St. Francis to that of St. Clare and the Cathedral. In Rome, where ten days will be spent, students will have the opportunity to see the Imperial Forum, many of the basilicas, the Vatican and will experience an audience with the pope, just to name some of the highlights. 
The London and Rome Summer Programs offer stu­dents a chance to travel abroad without missing time off during the regular academic year. It is, as Dr. Stafancic points out, a way to "see all of the history you are always teaching and hearing about first hand." 
If you are interested in these programs, contact Professor Black at 284-4460. It is truly an experience of a lifetime. 


Setting the pace: Cutting edge 
By ANGIE KELVER Saint Mary's Accent Ediwr 
W
e have all had the sneaking thought at one time or another of our professors, lying in bed at night, dreaming up new and creative ways to challenge students. While we are soaking up the rays, working behind counters in paper hats this summer, unbidden visions pop into our minds of Professor So-and-So, mapping out numerous, tortur­ous strategies and laughing evilly all the while. Are these nightmarish daydreams true or merely the result of our overactive imaginations? 
Five professors from the ND/SMC community have been rewarded with a $5,000 grant from Lily Endowment, Inc. for a modified version of our beachtime musings. The Summer Stipend Program grants are awarded to professors for the development of new, innovative course ideas. Both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's had an internal selection process, and then submitted their best entries to the Lily Endowment Foundation. From there, a team of out­of-state judges did an intense evaluation and selected the sixteen proposals which received the $5,000 grant to be developed into full-fledged courses. The actual development of these courses will occur this summer, and they will be available to students in the summer of 1996. 
For some, the preparation has already begun. Saint Mary's professor David Stefancic, whose course is entitled "State and Nation ,Building", has already started his research. 
"It began as part of the lectures to my Eastern European and World Civilization classes," Stefancic said, "and then expanded when I gave a talk on the subject at Coppernicus University in Poland." 
The factor that sets these proposals apart from a student's summertime wool-gathering is the basis on which these courses were created: student interest. The Saint Mary's team of Doris Watt and Susan Duff, who have developed an environmental studies course, cite student interest as the number one reason the course idea was pursued. 
"Many students felt they would profit from a course such as this," said Duff. "At the present time there is no such course available on campus. There was a great wish to discuss the environmental issues facing our world today and we felt in order to do so, we must provide a background for the students." 
The professors are looking to fil in the gaps in the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's curriculums in order to encompass a wide range of student interest. Jeanne kilde, a professor of nineteenth century cultural and architectural history at Notre Dame had this intention in mind when developing her course, entitled "Everyday Life in Early America-Colonization to the Civil War." 
"My reason behind developing the course is that our department is interested in running the whole sweep of American history," said Kilde. 
Not only are these courses based upon student inter­est, but they are also innovative, interesting, and fun. 
"The course idea caught most people's eye because it is not the normal approach," Stefancic said. "I want tobegin looking through other venues besides the usual history class-how other fields such as political science and sociology approach state and nation build­ing." He's also interested in student involvement in the cross-cultural arena. · 
The course developed by Watt and Duff will be offered in the summer, in order to implement more hands-on learning, thereby combating the notoriously fickle weather of the South Bend area. 
"We want to incorporate cooperative learning among the students. This is to be a fun course," said Duff. "Having it in the summertime enables us to take field trips to various areas of environmental interest in the area." 
Katie Maxbauer, a Saint Mary's sophomore and environmental biology minor, sees the need for a course such as this as imperative. 
"Any environmental studies course will help to edu­cate people about how the cycles of the earth affect our lives," Maxbauer said. 
She is also in total agreement with Watt and Duff on the way in which this course should be taught. "The closer you get to hands-on training, the easier it is to understand. Textbooks can only show you so much." 
Jeanne Kilde is also developing her course to be dif­ferent in subject matter and teaching methods. "I want to build upon the social, political, and economic _ analysis that is involved in the usual history courses. In order to do so, we will add to this the questions of 
courses 
The Observer/Courtesy of Dr. Wan 
Dr. Watt prepares for future enviornmental studies course 
everyday life-the religion, work, recreation, lifestyle and values of these people." 
Dr. Patrick White, Assistant Dean of Faculty at Saint Mary's, possesses a long,impressive list of Summer Stipend recipients, dating back to 1983. 
So, this summer, whether you're glistening with Coppertone SPF 4 or flipping burgers and passing out mayonnaise packets, make sure you modify your day­dreams. Perhaps these professors are lying in bed, thinking up course ideas, just as you originally thought. But, the evil laugh and flinty glare is proba­bly missing. Instead, ideas are percolating that could be beneficial inrounding out our education with a little ingenuity and fun. 

...--~­
Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
ACCENT 
page 11 

• fASHION fOLLIES 

. The Observer/Brandon Candura Th1s season's fas~iol}s borrow i.deas from your grandmother's closet. This sp.ring, what's old is new and very chic. These five ladies are ready for anything and dressed to kill, just by takmg a tnp back 1n t1me. Showmg the latest styles from yesterday are from nght to left: Andera Borgatello, Megan Murphy, Anita Mukerjee, Julie Mascio, and Nancy Strzelecki. 

New spring fashions take cues from the past 
I
t may have been quite awhile since you've had tlw chance to play dress-up with your grandmother's clothes that she has kept neatly stored for many years ------­
inside lined trunks and orga­nized closets. This season's styles will give you the opportunity to reminisce about those days when rum­maging through her old hat boxes and plastic-covered 


clotlws were indeed among your favorite things to do Veronica Torres every season. To satiate the Accent fashion Editor nostalgia for the glamorous ------­styles that pervaded earlier eras, fashion design­ers have brought the style of the 1940's and SO's to this generation if only for the season. 
Images of great llollywood screen goddesses such as Greta Garbo, Katharine Hepburn, and Marilyn Monroe should all come to mind when thinking about this spring's look. A touch of sex appeal along with beaucoup glamour is what the season is all about. Lines are crisply cut at the curve and figure enhancing, while accessories, like always. are playing a big role. 
Day suits, although relatively plain, are still going strong. With the help of the pencil-slim skirt that is now falling just below the knee it's not hard to believe that simple is definitely bet­ter. For the top, designers are trying out differ­ent things. Calvin Klein, Jil Sander and John Galliano, just to name a few, have found their inspiration in the short jacket, nipped-in at the waist with either full or (even better) three-quar­ter-length sleeves. On the other hand, others like Halph Lauren and Gucci rely on a more sim­ple approach with the use of matching sweater sets that are great for the transition from day to evening. 
Yet whatever the case may be, a feminine feel is key-and this doesn't mean that the look can't have a powerful feel to it. Granted, the boxy, padded shoulder look is out but recall some of the clothes Demi Moore wore in her latest movie, "Disclosure." To top it off, suits coordinated with a bustier, a Ia Madonna, are also making head­lines in this season's trends. 
Aside from the always popular cling-fit skirt, shiny. flowing dresses that could easily be mis­taken for slips are coming out of the closet and onto the runway. The fascination with these dresses is that they can be worn in so many dif­ferent ways: long or short, flipped or tailored. If the spaghetti straps make you feel like you just got out of bed, the lingerie style can easily be downplayed by adding a fitted t-shirt under­neath. For colder evenings these slip-inspired dresses can be coordinated with blazers or even cropped sweaters. One rule stands: strappy, high heels are a must. 
If some of the retro styles appeal to you, acces­sories are not hard to find. A clutch purse, white gloves, rhinestone barrettes, side parts, hats and Veronica Lake curls are all attainable-some more easily than others, of course. But for shoe lovers, as many of you likely are, this season will prove irresistible for you. Paint those toenails quickly because there will be no way to hide them, as open-toe shoes are in and the heels are only a few inches shorter then last fall's 70's in­spired spikes. Many of the shoe styles are shown wrapped around the ankle for a sexier look and come in flashy, glittery colors. 
This spring season will entail much more than well-deserved warm weather (if it ever comes) and a countdown to the end of school. These months give many of us a chance to jump back a few decades to a time not so far removed and will also provide an excuse to go digging through grandmother's old box hats and plastic-covered clothes. 
Veronica Torres writes a monthly fashion fea­ture for The Observer. She has extensive journal­ism experience with Time Inc. Magazines, NBC and various campus publications. 


! 


The Observer/ Brandon Candura Nancy Strzelecki is ready to face the world with a spring in her step, thanks to an airy linen pantsuit. 
-

-----"·~---~~-­
------~--~-----.. --~-------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
•NBA 

Shaquille sets on Suns, Magic romp 126-102 
By FRED GOODALL Orlando's 11 3-pointers and finished with 23 points. settling for a 64-52 halftime advantage. 
Associated Press Horace Grant had 15 points and 11 rebounds for Barkley, who avoided a one-game suspension when Orlando, which built a 15-point lead in the second the NBA reversed a flagrant foul called against him ORLANDO, Fla. quarter and never allowed the Suns to get back into during the Suns' overtime victory at Miami on Sunday, 
~haquille O'Neal and Anfernee Hardaway each the game. hit his first five shots and scored 13 points in the open­scored 26 points as the Orlando Magic beat the Charles Barkley, who sat out the fourth quarter with ing period. Phoenix Suns 126-102 Tuesday night in a showdown his team facing a 20-point deficit, led Phoenix with 23 The Suns finished the second quarter with Dan between the teams with the best records in the NBA. points and 11 rebounds. Richard Dumas had 20 points Majerle's 3-pointer, then trimmed Orlando's lead to 
The triumph stopped a three-game losing streak -and Wesley Person 17 for the Suns. 64-57 with a 5-0 spurt at the start of the third period. Orlando's longest this season -and improved the The Suns lead the league in 3-point shooting, but it The rest of the quarter belonged to Orlando, though, Magic's Eastern Conference-leading record to 49-17, was Orlando that made the best use of the long with O'Neal, Hardaway and Nick Anderson leading an one-half game better than the Suns' Western jumpers in the first half. Scott hit three of them, Jeff 18-6 run that put the Magic up 82-63. Conference-best 48-18. Turner made two and Hardaway one in the second Phoenix trailed 95-74 going into the fourth quarter 
Dennis Scott came off the bench to hit five of quarter, helping the Magic open a 15-point lead before and never got closer than 17 the rest of the way. 
Ewing alone as Hornets sting Knicks in New York 
By WENDY E. LANE suring stick." the margin cut to 64-63 with 5:16 to points through three quarters, dominat­Associated Press And a team that has problems match­play by a 14-2 Knicks run. ed the Knicks inside, grabbing 22 defen­ing up with Charlotte's size, speed and Ewing scored the last six points of the sive rebounds in the first half alone. The NEW YORK outside shooting. spurt. Hornets finished with 39 defensive 
The Hornets were able to disrupt just Larry Johnson had 21 to lead the The Hornets stayed ahead with Hersey boards, 13 by Mourning. about everything the New York Knicks Hornets, and Alonzo Mourning had 18 Hawkins' 3-pointer with 4:53 to play, Before the third quarter was half over, tried. They just couldn't disrupt Patrick points and 15 rebounds but shot 5-for-two key free throws by Mourning with the Knicks were down 49-35 and the Ewing. 13. 1:50 remaining and a basket by Bogues. Madison Square Garden crowd was 
Ewing scored 35 points Tuesday night, "We started to play much better and chanting, "Mason! Mason!," calling for but his teammates contributed only 34, As a team, Charlotte committed 20 much harder defensively in the second Anthony Mason, the forward suspended and Charlotte regained the Central turnovers and shot just 40 percent, but half, and just couldn't get enough last week for five games for "conduct Division lead with a 78-69 victory. that was better than the Knicks, who offense generated," Knicks coach Pat detrimental to the team." 
"Any time you have to match up with shot 36 percent. Riley said. "We just had a horrendous Patrick Ewing, you're going to have The Hornets, who won their second in start from an offensive standpoint." After a 6:14 scoreless stretch in the problems," Hornets coach Allan Bristow a row after a three-game losing streak, Ewing, who also had 18 rebounds, first quarter, the Knicks fell behind by said. "It's not many guys in the league moved back into the division lead after was all the offense New York could 12 points. you think they can score every time he Indiana lost at Miami, 97-95. muster and took 31 shots. The rest of They got within six points of the touches the ball, but Patrick is." "We've been thinking about getting the Knicks starters scored only 12 Hornets in the second period and trailed 
The Hornets beat the Knicks for the back to No. 1 in our division," Johnson points combined. Hubert Davis had 14 39-31 at halftime after shooting 31 per­third time in three tries this season, said. "We worked hard to get it and points off the bench. cent. holding New York to a season low and maintain it, then we had a slump, then "It was a tough game," Ewing said. Johnson had three of his four 3-point­breaking its three-game winning streak. we woke up." "We fought to cut it to two, but it ers in the first half, but the Hornets lost 
"We always get up for the New York Charlotte, which had led by as many seemed like none of the shots we took Dell Curry 10:47 before halftime after Knicks," point guard Muggsy Bogues as 14 points in the second half, was up from that point on could drop." he fell under the Knicks' basket and said. "They are a main rival and a mea-by 10 going into the fmal period but saw Charlotte, which held New York to 49 sprained his ankle. 
-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
FRANKENSTEIN  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  BIKE, APPLE 2C COMPUTER &  HEY SENIORS:  
NOTICES  Fri. & Sat. Cushing Auditorium  Project Software Engineer Leading software developer in  OPPORTUNITY. Up to 10 weeks, good pay.  DRYER.272-6306  I need 2 extra tickets for graduation. If you need only 2, would you con­ 
DO EUROPE  8/10:30  Columbus, Ohio seeks software engineer with BSCE degree or  Vacation relief cook at a private retirement villa serving under 40  PERSONAL  sider ordering 4 and giving me the other pair? ND Women: will make it  
$229 anytime!  • • • • TROOP ND classes  higher. Engineer to develop in  men in a lodge type setting. Must  worth your while. ND Men: will be  
'* FREE Brochure"  Tues & Thurs (Mar. 21 & 23)  Windows/Windows NT environment  be able to follow a set menu, set-up  000 The Copy Shop 000  very appreciative. Steve 634-1644.  
Also cheap fares worldwide  219 Rockne at 8 PM  using knowledge of Visual Design  & break down a limited buffet line.  Lafortune Student Center  Thanks.  
AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009  • ' ' • TROOP ND classes ' ' ' '  Tools and Visual  Starting mid-May ending before Fall  WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  
The Mulberry Players are coming! Look for them!  ILOST & FOUND I  C++. Experience with ClienVServer architecture, distributed database  school session. Send short resume listing your qualifications to: Summer Cook  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!!! Phone 631-COPY  The cops reported you as just another homicide ....  
applications and project manage­ P.O.N  I was thinking if these new droids  
WIDESPREAD PANIC  LOST on FRI 3/1 0  ment a plus. Full time position with  Notre Dame, IN 46556  work out, I could go to the Academy  
People People People!  HEART-SHAPED silver RING Jade  benefits. Please mail resume with  ATTN: Jim Newberry.  ABC'S & LULLABIES -Hugs, kiss­ next season ....  
Have you not bought tickets yet for  in middle between North Dining Hall  salary requirement to ScanDala  es and endless love await a white  
the Widespread Panic show? What are you waiting for? Did you know  and Center for Social Concems in morning! FAMILY HEIRLOOM!  Systems Mail Stop 4400 4420 Tuller Road Dublin, Ohio 43017  FOR RENT  newborn. Loving couple financially secure will provide a happy family  To: Colleen, Bridget, Jan, Mo. Meg, & Tiffany  
that the multi-superduper guitar duo  REWARDIII Call Rana x1373.  life, finest education and a beautiful  Rememember in Daytona  
JACKOPIERCE is opening for  home filled with warmth and securi­ When...  
them? Get on the move and grab  LOST: Black leather shoulder bag  REWARDING SUMMER JOB ­ LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ ty. Med/legal expenses paid. Call  1. Quarters!!  
...  some tickets today! WIDESPREAD PANIC and  in NDH. Bag unimportant contents necessary to sustain life at ND. If  Orlando, FL -residential camp serv­ing developmentally disabled hiring  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  Debbie &. Vic at 1-800-842-6648.  2. "I can't pretend to be sober anymore!"  
JACKOPIERCE playing live on  found please contact Rachel  counselors 18+. Live and work on  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8  ... SUB presents •••  3. Sigma Chi guy  
Thursday, March 23 at 8:00p.m.  @4093.  beautiful, lakefront preserve. Salary  STUDENTS 2773097  the  4. Oops! I spilled -blow it dry.  
Stepan Center  plus room, board & extras. 6/11­ HILARIOUS  5. Mo. what's in the cards for  
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!!FOUNDI!!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  8/18. Call407-889-8088 for applica­ MOVE OC! 180/mo w/3 fem  INSPIRATIONAL  our love lives?  
LIKE ANIMALS?  Calculator in computer cluster.  tion.  @ Turtle Creek,  KEVIN HUGHES,  6. Test tube shots, anyone?  
COME SEE  Probably lost earlyin semester.  summer/95-96 273-6437  the World's Funniest Advisor on  7. Colleen, shake your butt!  
BIRDS OF PREY  Call x0827 to identify type and  LIFE, LOVE, and LAUGHTER for  8. ND girls really know how  
with  location and to claim.  HOMES FOR RENT  Relationships in the '90s  to liven up a hotel bar.  
BIRD REHABILITATOR  ' HELPI HELP! HELP! HELP!  NEAR CAMPUS  @ 7:30 p.m .• Sat. March 25 @  9. Rebecca takes a licking  
JANEY FINK  >>>>>>>>>LOST<<<<<<<<<<<  232-2595  The Library Auditorium  and keeps on ticking.  
283 Galvin  Red paisley J.G. Hook umbrella  AN TOSTAL '95  Bring a date and it's FREE!!  1 0. Everybody against the  
Thursday 7pm  last semester from first floor  2 BDRM AVAIL NOW $295 MO. 3  door; don't let the fat boy  
Food & drink provided  Cavanaugh. It's very important to  needs a logo for our theme  BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM­ "His subject is sex, his message is  in I  
me, SO PLEASE RETURN ITI  PUS.272-6306  love, and his tool is laughter!"  Thanks for letting us crash and  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  Call x1374. I'll come pick it up if  "Quest for the Crown"  for a memorable spring break!  
Are you going to read those things again? I think not. 2323-2342  necessary, no questions asked.  • (which has something to do with  FOR SALE  THE BIG EARL BAND  Erin, Martha, & Rebecca  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  WANTED  dorm competitions).  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  live @ Bridget's IITONIGHTII  TO IOWA NYW 375, HOW ABOUT DINNER? GIVE ME  
at $85,900. First floor location.  A NUMBER.  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ SUMMER JOBS  If you can DRAW, then  Finished basement with full lavato­ Featuring their hit single,  -THE WHITE CAR  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  "Mellow"  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  SUBMIT SOMETHING!!!  ground level. Lease back to owner  "For $7 can I have the biggest one?  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  through May, 1995. Call  GET UP, GET UP, WAKE UP,  I like them big." Were you talking  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ NEAR LAKE PLACID  • turn drawings in to the SUB  (616)946-0700.  WAKE UP -DO YOU NEED SOME  about sombreros or pickles?  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  CALL 1-800-786-8373  HEALING?  
• office, 2nd floor LaFun, by next  Canon AE1 cameras and equip­ Um, Kristin. was your neck red from  
###########################  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ ment. Two cameras, lenes, flashes,  John Tina: You're my lucky lep­ a sunburn or from Kevin?  
EVER WANTED TO LEARN TO  Seasonal & full-time employment  'Wed. Questions, call Tom at 1563  and ACC. 232.7591 CALL AFTER  rechaun tonightl Tomasso  
JUGGLE?  available at National Parks, Forests  5PM.  Watch out for that bird!  
Come to the Juggling workshop @  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits &  
the Lafun Ballroom on 3/22 from  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  486/33 MiniTower PC 230MB  ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club's  My pool rocks.  
7p.m.-9p.m. There will be  N55842  VGA Monitor, Modem & Soltwares  Danceathon is coming  
"""'FREE FOOD""""  $850 0[30 Call Jewan 234-1285  Saturday March 25 in the  Carolina rules  
as well! Brought to you by SUB.  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ Summer Jobs  LaFortune Ballroom!  
###########################  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  Learn while you earn!  Black Leather Rocker-Recliner  Join us between lOam and 10pm  Dante is hairy. He WILL be MVP  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ $325/week  Looks New & Nice  for your favorite dances, including  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  $350 Call Jewan 234-1285  Cha-cha, Swing, Two-step, Tango,  '"**"DALLOWAY'S''**"'''"*  
GIFTS. 256-6657  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  Citizen's Action Coalition is hiring  and street dancing--anything goes!  WEDNESDAY MARCH 22  
Seasonal and full-time employment  for our entry level campaign posi­ Brother wordprocessor for sale.  Members-don't forget your pledge  KRAUTMISER  
ROBIN HOOD  available. No experience neces­ tions. Full/Part time, Travel, excel­ Separate monitor and 3.5" floppy  sheets. and bring your friends!!  WITH SPEEDQUEEN  
Thurs 8/1 030  sary. For more information cal 1­ lent office atmosphere. Hours 2-10.  disk drive included. Best offer. Call  $1 admission for any non-member  AT8:30 PM  
Montgomery Theatre $1  206-634-0468 ext. C55844  M-F. call for appt. 232-7905  Jason at x1852  Everyone welcome!!  ITS FREEIII!!II!I!!!!  

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 22, 1995 

PREJUDICE REDUCTION 

ORKSHOP 
lfyou are interested in le_arning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students·, staff, and professors ~he opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity worl(shop. 
'• 
Limited Enrollment-Calllmmediately 
SATURDAY, MARCH 25 
8:00 A.M. -3:00 P.M. 
EARTH SCIENCE BUILDING ROOM 101 
BREAKFAST AND LUNCH WILL ' BE PROVIDED 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
Contact: Mick~ey Franco • 631-4355 Adele Lanan • 631-7308 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
• MARCH MADNESS 
Big men look to lead the March to Seattle 
Associated Press 
. For Arizona State coach Bill Frieder, it was a press conference in the truest sense of the word. He talked about Kentucky's press, then he talked about his own press. 
Then, pressed to explain the Final Four T -shirt he wore, he replied: "It's not a statement. It's a goal." 
Frieder will be taking Arizona State to its first regional semfinal in 20 years when the Wildcats (24-8) meet Kentucky (27 -4) in Birmingham, Ala., Thursday night. 
Arizona State-Kentucky will be the nightcap of the Southeast Regional doubleheader. The first game sends Georgetown (21-9) against North Carolina (26­5). The winners meet Saturday with a Final Four trip at stake . 

The other Thursday regional semifinal is in the West at Oakland, Calif., where UCLA (27 -2) plays Mississippi State (22-7) and Maryland (26-7) plays Connecticut (27 -4). 
Friday night, it's Wake Forest (26-5) vs. Oklahoma State (25-9) and Tulsa (24-7) vs. Massachusetts (28-4) in the East -Regional semifinals at East Rutherford, N.J., and Memphis (24-9) vs. Arkansas (29-6) and Kansas (25-5) vs. Virginia (24-8))n the Midwest Regional at Kansas City. 
Frieder said he studied the pressure defense of Kentucky coach Rick Pitino in 1992, when injury and mishap forced him into a four-guard press. Arizona State went 18-10, and Frieder liked the press so well he kept it. 
"It's important for us to attack the press and to get anything that we can get out of transition," Frieder said. "That's a real must. but then when we get into the halfcourt, it's very important for us to read the defenses, know what's going on, and to not take the first quick shot if 15 seconds later you could have got­ten a much better shot." 
In the West, Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun still had his team in Reno, Nev., preparing for Maryland All­American Joe Smith. 
"We've been here for about 36 hours trying to rest the kids a little bit," Calhoun said. 
Maryland advanced to the regional semis with an 82­68 victory over Texas in which Smith had 31 points, 21 rebounds, seven blocks and four steals. 
"He plays unselfishly. He's just a terrific basketball player," Calhoun said. "We have an awful lot of work to do to try to stop them." 
The Huskies are making their fourth appearance in six years in the round of 16. 
In the East, Wake Forest coach Dave Odom has a problem similar to Calhoun's. That problem's name is Bryant Reeves, Oklahoma State's 7 -foot, 292-pound center. 
"The best thing he does is catch and pass," Odom said. "I think that's a tremendous compliment for a big man because we know he scores, we know he rebounds and we know he's a physical presence on defense. But I've never heard anyone say he's the best passing big man in the country." 
Wake Forest, the top seed in the East, has won 12 in a row. 
THE LUC 
OF 

THE IRISH 

Photo courtesy of Missouri Sl 
Bryant "Big Country" Reeves will square off against fellow stud center Tim Duncan of Wake Forest in the Sweet 16. 
Speaking of Reeves. the last time he played against Kansas. the Jayhawks held him scoreless for the first time in four years. This time, Virginia faces the vaunt­ed Kansas defense. 
The Cavaliers have several players who could step up to tackle Kansas' inside players, led by Greg Ostertag. 
Junior Burroughs enters the game as Virginia's top scorer, averaging 18 points per game, including 36 against Georgia Tech in the first round of the ACC tournament. Guard Harold Deane turned in three 28­point performances this season. 
Only 10 opponents have shot better than 40 percent overall against Kansas this season and none has hit 50 percent. 
'·.. 

Story by Brendan Patrick Paulsen illustrations by Gwen Connelly 
Join Brendan Patrick Paulsen 
·I 
for a reading from his new book! 3:00p.m. March 22nd at The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
"on the campus" 
~ 
~ 
PUBLISHERS 
-

Wednesday, March 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-----------------------------------~~~~~---------------------------------------­
•NBA 
Report links Lewis with Bias, clouds ceremony 
By GLEN JOHNSON 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

The Heggie Lewis story took another twist Tuesday. with a report the former Celtics eap­tain once did cocaine with Len Bias -an All-American who died of an overdose days after being drafted by Boston. 
A roommate of Lewis was quick to deny the report, which surfaced the day before Lewis' No. 35 was to be retired in Boston Garden. 
The ceremony honoring Lewis, combined with a visit by Michael Jordan and the Chicago Buffs, was preceded Tuesday night by a telethon to raise money for the Reggie Lewis Foundation. 
At a brief news appearance before the telethon, Lewis' widow. Donna Harris-Lewis, continued to disparage reports that her husband used cocaine as merely "allegations." 
"I wish my children were a little older so they could appre­ciate this tribute more," said Harris-Lewis, who heads the charitable foundation named for her husband. "Tonight and tomorrow are a celebration of his life and career on and off the court." 
"Reggie's smile fit up the city, his character helped unite the city, and his generosity helped feed the city," said Northeastern University presi­dent Jack Curry, who kicked off the telethon with a $10,000 from the university. 

The Boston Globe reported Tuesday that Derrick Lewis, another of Lewis' longtime friends and also a college team­mate, said Lewis used cocaine with him and Bias in 1985. 
"Len went into the bathroom, took a toot, then me, then Reggie, then the next guy. We made sure nobody was com­ing," Derrick Lewis said, recall­ing an incident he said took place during Red Auerbach's basketball camp in 1985. 
Bias, a former University of Maryland star, went on to be the Celtics No. 1 pick in 1986. He died of cocaine intoxication two days later. 
"There might have been dif­ferent players on the squad that indulged in different things, but Reggie wasn't one of them," Wes Fuller, who roomed with Lewis for four years at Northeastern, told The Associated Press. "It just wasn't in his makeup." 
Fuller, who owns a computer company in New Jersey, admit­ted he smoked marijuana dur­ing college "and, if Reggie smoked marijuana, he would have smoked it with me. I would have known. I guess this would be detrimental to me, but I care more about Reggie." 
Andre LaFleur, who served as co-captain of the Northeastern squad in 1986-87 with Fuller and Lewis, also denied Derrick Lewis' allegations. 
LaFleur said that Reggie Lewis told him about the 1985 incident with Bias, but Lewis said he was "shocked" to see Bias using cocaine and did not use the drug himself that night, the Globe reported. LaFleur now plays professional basket­ball in Australia. 
Derrick Lewis himself has offered conflicting statements on Lewis' alleged drug use. 

Brent Moss jailed after violation 
A.•sociated Press 
MADISON, Wis. 

Former Wisconsin running back Brent Moss admitted Tuesday that he violated con· ditions of his probation on a drug conviction, a state prison official said. 
But .Joseph Scislowicz, spokesman for the state Department of Corrections, said he did not know the spe­cific violation or violations involved. Tests for possible drug abuse were among many conditions for Moss's probation after his conviction on a drug charge last fall. 
Moss, 22, who was jailed Friday, acknowledged in an interview with Division of 
Mike's presence turns problematic for Kukoc 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
DEERFIELD, Ill. 

When Michael Jordan retired in 1993, Toni Kukoc cried. Europe's Earl of Roundball so very much wanted to play with the NBA's Prince of Mid-Air. 
Now that Jordan has un-retired, Kukoc has his chance. Or so it appears. 
But Kukoc seemed lost Sunday during Jordan's return engage­ment, and Chicago Bulls coach Phil Jackson already is talking about lineup changes. 
"Toni's the only member of the starting group who has never played with Michael, so he's got the most adjusting to do. It's going to be a while," Jackson said after Tuesday's practice. "We're going to stick with Toni a little bit and see how he does. We always know that we can find a way for him to come off the bench and contribute." 
When the Bulls rallied in the second half of Sunday's 103-96 overtime loss at Indiana, Kukoc was on the bench. Jackson used unheralded Corie Blount, a better rebounder and defender, at power forward. 
Either Blount or Larry Krystkowiak, who is on the injured list, could eventually start. 
Kukoc, who has avoided the media the last few days, hates com­ing off the bench. When he finally cracked the starting lineup in late December, he considered it a milestone in his two-year NBA career. 

• Garnes to 15 Points 

• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST • Head to Head Competition • 45 Second Shooting Period • Double Elimination 
Happy 2oth Birthday Graceanne! 
Love ana X...isses, Mom, '])~ (jai£, !Rjc{cy & IJita, Ma & Jltcli.ing 
Probation and Parole staff that he had violated probation, Scislowicz said. 
Because Moss has admitted the rules violation, "there's a possibility he will be given a. chance to work in the commu­nity," but no decision had been made as of late Tuesday. and Moss remained jailed, Scislowicz said. 
Moss, the Most Valuable Player in Wisconsin's 1994 Rose Bowl victory over UCLA. was kicked off the team last November after his arrest in a Madison drug bust. ·· 
He was convicted of misde· meanor cocaine possession~ He was on two years probation when he was arresteq Frld(ly in Racine, his hometown. 

Racine police picked up Moss. who was turned over to state probation officers and booked into the Dan,e County Jail Friday night. 
FREE ICE CREAM, 
Attention Juniors interested in the 

Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on Tuesday, March 28, 1995 
6:30 p.m. 101 Law School 

Ifyou are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 1 02-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
• MARCH MADNESS 
Outstanding performances of the first 
An all-ACC Final 
two rounds of the NCAA Tournament 

We are. 

800/865.,7737 The Answer To Standardized Tests 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
XXIV SIGN-UPS 
MAIN SIGN UPS($10/TEAM) 
In LaFortune 

Tuesday, March 21 6-9 p.m. Wednesday, March 22 11:30-2 & 6-9 p.m. Thursday, March 23 6-9 p.m. In North and South Dining Halls Thursday, March 23 11:30-1 p.m. LATE SIGN-UPS($13/TEANI) In LaFortune Friday, March 2 4 11:3 0-2 p.m. In O'Shag-The Great Hall Saturday, March 2 5 1 -4 p.m. 2 Captains and 2 team names 
Be a part of Notre Dame's greatest traditions. Don't Be Left Out! 
and Drew Barry produced late tailspins. 
"I don't understand how they can look at the strength of our league and the RPI (Ratings Percentate Index), and we have four teams tie for first and not take our fifth place team who is 8-8 in our league. To me that is a dangerous precedent," said Fred Barakat, ACC associate commissioner. 
"If all of the sudden you can be .500 in the ACC and not go to the NCAA tournament it is kind of frightening.'' 
With the 8-0 start, the ACC is now 72-25 in the NCAA tourna­ment in the 1990s. The league has produced five national championship teams since 1982 and has been represented in 12 of the last 14 Final Fours. 
The single-season mark for NCAA postseason wins is 18, set by the Big East in 1985. 
"I think (the 8-0 start) is something we all hoped for but I don't think any of the coaches as much as the media and the fans expected it. I think we all worry about every game," Odom said. 
"I think sometimes our play­ers think (winning) is going to happen. I don't think the coaches do. I don't think any of the coaches just feel like we're going to win our first two games and just move on to the regionals." 


Four still possible 

By DAVID DROSCHAK 
Associated Press 
GREENSBORO, N.C. 

The Atlantic Coast Conference has bolted to an 8-0 start in the NCAA tournament, winning by an average of 17 points per game. 
It rivals the 9-1 start the league produced after two rounds of postseason in 1990 when Duke and Georgia Tech eventually reached the Final Four. 
What does the domination mean this time for Wake Forest, North Carolina, Maryland and Virginia? 
"I think it makes a pointed case that (Georgia Tech) should have been there," Wake Forest coach Dave Odom said. "There is absolutely no question. I'm not trying to point fingers at any league but we all know what happened over the week­end." 
Odom was referring to the Big Ten, which placed six teams in the 64-team field, the most of any league. For the first time, none advanced to round of 16. 
The Yellow Jackets (18-12, 8­8 ACC), a perennial NCAA tour­nament team for more than a decade under coach Bobby Cremins, have missed the post­season the last two seasons after injuries to James Forrest 
~~--~---­

..--------------------------~---~----------~--------------~-----­
Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S SOFTBAU 
Florida proves ,, friendly for Belles 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
After spending their spring break in Florida training for the big '95 season, the Saint Mary's softball team kicked off their long awaited season yes· terday with a strong effort from junior pitcher Maria Vogel. 
In Florida, the team lost five and won three against some tough competition, which was an encouraging opener for the Belles. Vogel, a Saint Mary's junior and the team's starting pitcher began her season with a tough 10-2 loss to Wheaton. Wheaton scored a run in the first inning when a smashing double sent a runner who had walked for home. 
The Belles fought back in the second inning, however, with two runs off hits by sophomore infielder Kathleen Maxbauer and senior catcher April llhoades. 
Wheaton came baek with two runs, and Vogel entered the seventh inning with the Belles only down 4-2. Lightning struck Wheaton, however, as they delivered seven crashing !:tits, costing the Belles six runs. The Belles gave up their last chance for a fight with three quick outs, and the final score remained 10-2. 
The day was long from over for the Belles, however. The Belles entered the second game of the double header energized and revengeful. 
Lori Langenderfer, a Saint Mary's sophomore and last season's NCAA Division Three save leader, pitched an solid 10·2 win over Wheaton. The pitching was not the Belles' only weapon. however. 
The Belles' spirit rewarded them four runs in the first inning, three more in the sec­ond, and two more before Wheaton finally issued the Slaughter Rule In the fifth inning, which declared the Belles the winners. 
The Slaughter Rule declares a team, if winning by eight runs after the fifth inning, to be the winner. The plurality of runs resulted from blasts from freshman third baseman Andrea Arena, junior outfield· er Laura RHcher, and the speed of junior outfielder Michelle Limb. 
Great outfield catches by Ritcher and double play action by junior shortstop Shannon Heise also swiped several scoring opportunities from Wheaton. 
"We're both two very even teams. On a. given day, we both have an equal opportuni­ty for a win. In the first game we dominated the hitting, while in the second Saint Mary's dominated the hitting," said the Wheaton head coach. 

The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALl 
UCLA out to shake the critics '. 
By BETH HARRIS Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Beleaguered. Under siege. Moron. The words roll off Jim Harrick's tongue in a West Virginia twang softened by more than 30 years on the West Coast. 
There's no mistaking the mocking tone, even though there's a slight smile as he recounts getting bashed for UCLA's recent early round loss­es in the NCAA tournament, an event the school dominated in the John Wooden era. 
But Harrick is comfortable with himself these days. The criticism died out as the Bruins put together an outstanding season that culminated in the Pac-1 0 Conference title. 
UCLA is the nation's No. 1 team with a 27-2 record and 15 straight victories going into Thursday's game against Mississippi State in the West Regional at Oakland, Calif. 
Victories last week over Florida International and Missouri improved Harrick's tournament record to 9-6, but two first-round losses in the past four years remain fresh in many people's minds. 
"I don't think we've had a bad year since I've been here," Harrick said. "I can't do what he (Wooden) did." 
No one ever is likely to match Wooden's run of 10 champi­onships, including seven straight, that ended 20 years ago. 
Wooden retired after the 197 5 title game, opening the door for six successors. Only Harrick has lasted longer than and a guy will say, 'You can't four seasons. His 164-55 record coach.' I'll say, 'You have a in seven years is better than right to say that, but give me an Wooden's mark of 99-51 over example.'" the same stretch. The caller usually cites 
"I really had a honeymoon Harrick's penchant for not call­the first four years. There was ing timeout ("a silly little thing" not a negative word ever said," he says), or sometimes calling Harrick recalled. "Then we one at the wrong moment. went to the Elite Eight (in 1992) "I accept constructive criti· and the advent of talk radio cism," he said. "It's blatant and kind of changed everything. ignorant remarks that upset 
"I'll get on a talk radio show coaches more than anything." 

UCLA's Ed O'Bannon, dejected after last year's loss at Notre Dame, hopes to avoid similar feelings against Mississippi State. 

Lowest pllce evet on the PowerBat)k 5UO HPr 1ea. Right now is the perfect time to buy 
an Apple" PowerBook" computer. Prices have never been lower. And that makes our special deals for students even more irresistible. Ofcourse, every Powerllook in the 500 series is ready for PowerPC'" upgrades, the RISC·based technology of the future. And with SoftWindows'" software from Insignia Solutions~ you can use applications for DOS and Wmdows as weU. Plus, for alimited '-­time, you can get ahand<;Ome Austin Caseworks carrying case. But the ..
Ap 1 

most important new.; ofall is they're available now. So visit us today. 
ple .. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 

'SohWindows 50ftw2re rrom Inslgni.l Solutions, which 15 used 10 run MS.OOS 6.2 ami Windows 3.1, comes bundled wllh ccru.ln 1\N.·rrBook conflguf1tl0n!. tfrtot Austin~ carrying~. asuggestat rtWI value of 190, with the purchase of any f\m.-er8ook romputrr. Sec asa~peoon for mort lnfon'IU.Uon 01995Applc Computer, Inc. All rij!hts resmred. Apple, the Apple logo, and PowerBook art rtgbtertd trademark! of Apple Comput~ Inc F'll9ouPf. ~a tl'llir· mark oflmrmallonal Bmlnrs5 Mxhlnts Corporation and used undn' lictnse therrfrom. Windo...'51s atndrmuk of Mk:Tosot Corpor.nlon and SoftWI~'S I! a tradcrnart ll5Cd under licro5r by lnslgnla l'rom Micro5oli Corpor.nloo Mention o( noth\pple products Is lOr lnrormatlonal pu~ oolr llld mMitulo n6 thtrancndoocmen1 nora rtrornrnendalion. Price! art 5tl bylndMdual dealm and mJ)'WJY 
-


DEFENSE STUDIES 
at 

(JEOR(/ETOW:J(,7JNIVERS/1Y 
The Georgetown University National Security Studies Program offers a Master of Arts degree in defense studies from one ofthe nation's most prestigious universities. The program provides a rigorous andbalanced rurrirulum of advancffl courses taught by recognizedexperts, induding: 
• 
Persian Gulf Security (Anthony Cordes man) 

• 
Weapons Proliferation (janne Nolan) 

• 
Low-Intensity Conflict (Chris Lamb) 

• 
Defense Decision Making Process (Arnold Punaro) 

• 
Emerging Security Challenges (Kenneth Adelman) 

• 
U.S. Defense Policy (Stephen Gibert) 

• 
Intelligence and National Security (Roy Godson) 

• 
Media and the Military (Loren Thompson) 

• 
Political Analysis (Michael Mazarr) 

• 
Economics of National Defense (Robert Howard) 


Ifan M.A. dtgree in nationalsecurity studies matches yourprofessional needs andcareer goals, please mil 
(202) 687-5679 

to receive an application package. 
------~------------------­
Wednesday, March 22, 1995

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NIT • SAINT MARY'S TENNIS
..,. 
Penn State gets a taste of revenge Saint Mary's tennis 
Associated Press four 2-point baskets and four remaining when Pete Lisicky free throws. hit his second consecutive 3­
opens with DePauw 
LINCOLN, Neb. Nebraska threatened to break pointer to put Penn State on top 
Rahsaan Carlton scored eight the game open early in the sec­55-53. By CAROLINE BLUM and she is very confident in the of Penn State's final 10 points ond half. Mikki Moore scored Moore, who scored all 15 of Saint Mary's Sports Editor team. as the Nittany Lions rallied to the first eight points in a 12-0 his points in the second half, hit The tennis team last playedbeat Nebraska 65-59 Tuesday run as Nebraska took a 48-36 a pair of free throws to put After practicing in Hilton DePauw in the fall, but werenight in the second round of the lead. Nebraska back in front. But Head during the break, the 
defeated 6-3. However, two of

NIT. But then the Huskers (18-14) then Carlton, who had been on Saint Mary's tennis team kicks 
the matches were very close

The game matching the sev­went cold, scoring just 11 the bench with four fouls, came off their regular season today 
and could have gone either

enth-place finishers in the Big points in the final 16 minutes, back in and hit a long jumper against Depauw.
Eight and Big Ten was tight often missing open shots and to give Penn State the lead for way. during the first half. There layups. good. The team lost 3 and won 4 "Hopefully, Hilton Head has 
at Hilton Head, but they were
were six ties, the final one com­Penn State fought its way prepared us for a victory 
ing when Greg Bartrum hit a up against quality competitors. against DePauw. This will be a
back into the game with two 3-Carlton led Penn State with "Although we went 3 and 4,
buzzer-beating 3-pointer to pointers from Dan Earl and a 19 points, Earl had 14 and very close match, and could be 
I'm happy with our perfor­
make it 36-36. basket by John Amaechi, cut­Amaechi added 12. a great turning point for our ting Nebraska's lead to 48-44 Moore paced Nebraska with mance at Hilton Head last team," said Cromer. 
The Nittany Lions (19-1 0) with 13:03 left. 15 points. Jaron Boone finished week. We played four good were 8-of-16 from long range The Nittany Lions took their with 11 points, all in the first Midwest teams, including a The team's doubles will be in the first half, but made only first lead of the half with 6:38 half. team from Division 1. This will 
lead by senior Robin Hrycko prepare us for the competition and senior Andrea Ayres, who 
we will be encountering this defeated DePauw in three sets
•NHl 
season," said the team's head 
in the fall. Sophomore Katie coach Katie Cromer. 
Kozacik leads the team's sin­

This year is Cromer's second
Unconscious Carey blanks Ottawa 
gles, followed by number two as head coach at Saint Mary's, 
Ayres. By DAVID GINSBURG before being traded to the Senators in January. 
Associated Press "It wasn't that long ago that we were fighting for the same thing," Beaupre said of his former LANDOVER, Md. teammates. ''I'm just glad I played a decent 
Morning Breath 

Goaltender Don Beaupre was brilliant Tuesday game, but I wish we would have won." 
getting you down?

night in his return to the arena where he played Peter Bondra scored the only goal with 6:59 for six straight seasons. left, taking a centering pass from Michal Pivonka Unfortunately for Beaupre, his old team per­and deking Beaupre before putting the puck into 
formed better than his present one. the left side of the net. 
It's cool, IT's 

Jim Carey became the first Washington goalie "He really didn't give me time to back up at all. in four seasons to record consecutive shutouts, I was kind of handcuffed," Beaupre said. 
YOUR BIRTHDAY! stopping 13 shots as the Capitals beat Beaupre "Beaupre played a great game. He was flaw­and the Ottawa Senators 1-0. less," Carey said. "You can't blame him for a 
"Jim Carey got a shutout. That's a gift," breakaway." Happy 19th birthdayOttawa coach Rick Bowness said. "I think they Carey, who blanked Hartford on Monday night, could have played with the net empty." has gone 171 minutes, 5 seconds without allow­Sarah Reynolds!
The last Washington goalie to record two ing a goal. The rookie entered with an NHL-best straight shutouts was Beaupre, who blanked 1.47 goals-against average and is now 9-1-1 
From lovie & 

New Jersey and Philadelphia in the 1990-91 sea­since being recalled from the minors earlier this son. Beaupre won 128 games with the Capitals month. the Girls of2T 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
senior Tim Kraus faired better in their one inning, with Baiicki surrendering one hit and Kruas two. 
Notre Dame was also hurting offensively due to the injury to leading hitter Rowan Richards. Richards leads everyday play­ers with a .429 average, and is second to Topham in home runs and RBI. Freshman Marcus Smith got the start in Richards place, and wore the collar, striking out once in four at-bats. 
The Irish will have to regroup in a hurry. Thursday the team travels to Miami for a three­game weekend series with the third-ranked Hurricanes. 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale l'TU:LI.ist! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. »>uhington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Fret 32·/'agt Color Catalog 
1bii·Frtt (800) 922·0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 lrottrntl Catalog at brtp: I!tvww. Japtck. coml!aptck 
BB KING 
Morris Civic Auditorium March 22 
Wednesday @ Bpm 

Tickets at the usual outlets or 
CHARGE-BY-PHONE: 
219-235-9190 



Wednesday, March 22, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKF PFTFR<;; CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 



CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
27 Type of chatter 29 Long March 
leader 32 COMICAL 36 Revealing dress 37 N.BA coach 
14 View from some Unseld dorms 
38 Coal-dousing 15 Science 
sound 

magazine 
39 UNETHICAL 16 Burned up 
44 Skiing champ 17 Perennial Tommy basketball 
45 Enlightenmentpowerhouse 
philosopher 10 Lo-fat 
46 Chablis, e.g. 19 Checkers master 47 Expose 20 Elec. coolers 48 Occupy 21 THEATRICAL 52 RHYTHMICAL 23 Nap in Nogales 58 Have a bout with 25 Start of 59 Alimentary 36-Down's motto canal section 26 Type of stripe 60 Slave of Amneris 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+=+'--'+'-~ ~=+:::..t::-+=-i 
-"-+---+::-+=:-1 
-=:-+.,..,+.::-t....,.r:-t':!" .:..:..:~~::--! F.fll!lllllllll-:-+-:-:-+~:-t=+=-l ~=-+:-:+::--+:-:; 
__.__._........_...__. 
Wear any 
beer-goggles ~~~ that lasts lately? longer than a hangover.
Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
I'f'\ SORE, 

OUCHIE. 
BUT I'VE. NE.VER FELT 

SO FP-E.E 
\ 
61 Current 5-Across 
62 Distress signal 63 Trudge 64 "Your turn," via 
radio 65 Worked with 
nails 66 Tunnel, e.g. 67 Propensity 
DOWN 
1 Sea shades 2 Soap star Susan 3 Bogus 4 Nabokov 
heroine 5 Stromboli. e.g. 6 Radiate 7 Within: Prefix a Boardwalk 
abutter 9 Mosque feature to Skater Heiden 
and others 11 Curbside cry 12 Beau 
Brummell's school 13 Escalator 
Marshall

inventor Jesse 51 Strain 56 Hawaii County 21 Per severing 35 "Up in Smoke" capital co-star. 1978 
52 Instant22 Cronies 
57 Tiki, e.g. 24 Parsley part 
36 "The Wizard of 53 1934 hit "­Oz"film Do Is Dream of 61 Good 'n' plenty 27 More than company You" amount
lethargic 40 Kind of milk 
20 Platter 41 Estate near
29 Chief Get answers to any three clues
Atlanta30 Domed 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
projection 42 Middling 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
31 Saturn's wife 43 Quaff quantity 


The First Law of Air Travel: The distance to your connecting gate Is directly proportional to the amount of luggage you ore carrying and Inversely proportional to the amount of time you have. 
..... iif:\:!l' ~T%\i"\\:fA!l%1Iii"OF INTEREST /'. 'ilPr '.A Job Search Orientation for Juniors will be given .; f:rf>m 4:0Qtq. 5:00 p.m. today in room 23 of Hayes­..l:Jealy:(o't) t}ie·Iower level). This presentation is d~l;igned t() give juniors an overview of the types of ;;.activities mvolved in preparing for the job search in their senior year as well as how the Career and Placement Services omce can assist in this process. . Presented by Paul Reynolds, Career and Placement i:KAssQciate Director. ·dk "Learning to Read Between the Lines: Bringing ii.\the INTRA Group Dimension into Ethnic Conflict }'studies" will be the topic of a lecture by Kenneth Bush, Post Doctoral Fellowship, Social Sciences and ..Humanities Research Council of Canada today at 4:15 ;('p.m. inthe Hesburgh Center Auditorium. ,·r·O'Malley Award Nominations recognizing the 'Un!lergraduate teacher of the year are available in the .Student Government omce. 2nd floor of LaFortune. 1'\Nominations are due back by Wednesday, March 29.  
ic~ .• MEN l'1.<N~fw'i ........arri~i;;~. .··.. Nor~0~L~++· South · ChickenAcapulco Grilled Pork Chops • Grilled Ham Steak Spinach Cheese TorteUini Vegetable Calzone Irish-Brown Potatoes !\.Saint Ma,.Y's Veal Marsala London Broil . Hungarian Noodle Bake  
Have an opinion? Let us know about it. Submit letters to the Viewpoint editor.  

Try building a relationship 
... ­

SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, March 22, 1995 
• BASEBALl 

By MEGAN McGRATH Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball team challenged Indiana State to a home run derby Tuesday at Terre Haute. 
The Irish may have won the homer competition three round-trippers to two, but the Sycamores won the game, tru­imphing 12-8. 
Senior starting pitcher Craig Allen got knocked out of the box in the second inning, after 


Wednesday, March 22 
SMC Tennis at DePauw Bookstore Basketball Sign-ups 
giving up a grand slam to Sycamore third baseman Jeff Leaman. Allen gave up seven hits and eight earned runs in one and two-thirds innings of work. 
The Irish rallied for four runs in the third. A Ryan Topham home run and anoth­er Irish run in the sixth brought Notre Dame to within two, but Indiana State scored three runs on reliever Rich Sauget to put the game out of reach. 
Thursday, March 23 
ND Softball vs. Ohio Stare, 3 p.m. ar Ivy Field ND Women's Basketball ar WNIT Tournament vs. Pacific Bookstore Basketball Sign-ups 
Topham was the only player to have multiple hits for the Irish, adding another solo shot in the seventh. He drove in his third run of the game with a bases loaded walk. 
Senior captain Craig DeSensi had a double and drove in three runs for Notre Dame. Second baseman Randall Brooks also had a solo home run, his first of the season. 
Leaman led the Sycamores at the plate, going 3x5 with four RBI. Catcher David Ullery went 3x5 with a home­run and three RBI. 
Two ISU pitchers combined to stymie the Irish. Starter John Huemmer went four innings, giving up five earned runs on five hits. Reliver Brad Finken picked up the win in relief. In five innings of work, Finken gave up just one hit, Topham's homer, and struck out five. 
Again the Irish proved vulernable beyond their top three pitchers. After Allen got the hook, relivers Larry Mohs and Rich Sauget gave up four earned runs and six hits in four and a third innings of work. 
Freshman Mike Balicki and 
see BASEBALL/ page 18 


• TRACK AND fiElD 
Irish elite return from Arizona 
with NCAA hopes 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
Not quite 
,_,...,..---=c-_..,__,., all work and no play. W hi I e Spring Break was a time 
for rigid preparation and intense Williams competition for several of Notre Dame sports teams, the majority of the Irish track team was given the time for rest and re­laxation. 
That is all except for seven of the squad's top athletes. 
While deprived of the full week vacation, the selected group made the most of the opportunity and enjoyed a suc­cessful weekend at the Arizona Invitational on March 17-18. 
"It was a pretty good gauge of where people are at this point in the season," said assis­tant coach John Millar. "It was a good starting point for us, and we seemed to be in pretty good shape." 
It was an especially good day for Irish newcomers. Freshman Errol Williams placed third in the 110 meter hurdles with a time of 14.54. In the 800 meter run, Berit Junker also represented the Class of '98 well, finishing fourth with a mark of 2:10.17. 
It was also another banner performance for senior Monica Cox, one of Notre Dame's top returning seniors. 
She recorded a time of 14.33 in the 100 meter high hurdles, good enough for sixth place in the event. 
"She is one of at least five that we feel have a great opportunity of qualifying for the NCAA's," said head coach Joe Piane. 
With two runners finishing in the top ten, the 400 meter dash was the most successful event for the Irish on the afternoon. Freshman Danny Patton cap­tured sixth place with a time of 48.91, and sophomore Troy Langevine's mark of 51.14 earned him a tenth place finish in the competition. 
"Everyone performed well, and I think the meet was good preparation for the outdoor season," said Millar. 
"They needed the chance to perform in less than perfect conditions." 
With the squad divided up to compete in the Wabash, Purdue, and Stanford Invitationals. this weekend will serve as the first test for Notre Dame in the outdoor competi­tion. 


Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Info Sophomore Troy Langevine was one of the Irish runners who had a successful Arizona trip. He placed 1Oth in the 400m. 

Friday, March 24 
ND Baseball at Miami (through Sunday) WNIT Second Round 
Saturday, March 25 ND Men's Tennis vs. Indiana, 1 pm ND Lacrosse vs. Hoban, 2 pm SMC Tennis vs. Manchester, 10 am ND Softball at Ball State ND Women's Tennis ar Tennessee ND Track arE. Kenrucky/Sranford 






