
Monday, October 30, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No.45 TI-lE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Montana Gov. stresses political accountability 
By JAMIE HEISLER there is more to a topic than As.mtant News Editor nine seconds. It does a disser­vice to both officials and the 
Addressing the role of public public," said Racicot. ollicials as well as issues of im­Along with his close atten­portanen to the state of Mon­tions to the needs of con­tana, the Governor of Montana stituents, Hacicot has attempt­Mare Hacieot ed to change several related spoke last aspects of the approach to poli­Friday in a tics. I Ie has tried to make the leeture enti­office of governor more acces­tled "Public sible to the people by not only Serviee, listing his home phone number, Politics, and but also by publishing his tax Lifn." returns, schedule, and official 
Aceording documents. to Hacicot, He has also given great atten­public offi-tion to changing the process of cials often tend to be distant decision making. "We have from their constituents' inter­tried to move into different nsts and needs. He has had the ways of decision making be­opportunity to interact with cause the old ways are gone. pnople on a greater level be­We have begun to move more 
The Observer/Leslie Zielinski 
eausn of thn smaller population at the beginning of the process 
Regular or Double Stuff? 
of Montana which is around than at the end when options 
H56,000. are limited. We have also tried 
Missy McCall, left and Julie Steinke, right, participate in the Oreo Stacking Contest held on Thursday. The "In many offices where peo­to predict conflicts and to inter­
contest was part of the celebration of the Grand Re-Opening of the Haggar Snack Bar. pln are further removed, they ject ourselves thoughtfully into have less of an understanding. the process in order to bring It's still a very real neeessity to resolution," he said. hn involved with one another. Raeicot also feels that politi­
Carver ends peace walk at ND In Montana wn arn still allowed cians are afraid to admit their that privilege, the luxury to ex­mistakes which negatively af­By MELANIE LAFLIN response has been overwhelming. The peopln pnrinnee that discussion, the fects them because people com­News Writer have been so nice and supportive." eonrwetion with pnople you prehend more than most politi­Carver and a friend of his had laid out the work for." said Haeieot. cians realizn. "If we are honest If you passed by the administration steps this route and found several churches and homes 
IIll fenls the media have con­we are when we make mis­past Friday or Saturday, you saw Frank Carver, where he might stay. tributed to the distance takes and honestly admit them, 1944 Notre Dame graduate, and his Notre Peace "At most of my stops I knew some people I hntwnen publie ollicials and the people are quite forgiving," Net banner. This was not simply a two day could stay with but along the road there were a pnople in their eoverage of said Hacicot. peace demonstration, but the end of a long, three few surprises-the church in Sandusky, Ohio I politieal events. He cited the According to him, politicians week peace walk Carver began on October 9th in had planned to stay in was unavailable and I ehange in the average sound also often confuse their roles of Cleveland, Ohio and ended this past Friday, 237 asked a man outside the church whnre I might bite as proof of the problems service especially in a time of miles later on Notre Dame's campus. go. I ended up speaking to the entire Knights of eaused by the limited informa­reelection. "There is a tempta­Promoting a University Chair in Catholic Non­Columbus chapter in Sandusky and found several tion presented by the media. tion to do what's political ver­violence, the phase-out of the ROTC, nuclear dis­Knights willing to help me out," said Carver. 
"The average sound bite in sus what's right. There is also armament, unity, and inner healing, Carver has Carver, who is now almost completnly deaf, tlw 11J60s was 42 seconds. It is a challenge in time of reelec­walked between 13 and 15 miles each day, stop­once worked for the State I Iighway Department nine sneonds today. What ean tion not to confuse roles," he ping at night to rest in churches and in people's and taught Special Education in Trumansburg, you eommunicate in nine sec­said. "But people figure out a homes who were willing to take him in. onds'? It is frustrating because "It's been truly wonderful," said Carver. "The 
see RACICOT I page 4 see CARVER I page 4 


Parties make final appeal on eve of Quebec vote 
By DAVID CRARY The llag-wav-bastion of feder-hands?' The answer to that A.-.nciatcJ Press ing crowd sang Citizens of Quebec vote Oct. 30 on alists. question will your answer on the the national whether to seearate from Canada. About 82 per-the ballot." MONTREAL anthem, "0 How Quebec s economy will be cent of Que-He acknowledged there might 
The two sides in Quebec's Canada" -thn affected by the vote: beckers are be bitterness in English Canada bloodless but bitter war of se­French version French-speak-if the "yes" side wins. eession made emotional final and English ver-YES.· NQ.• ing, and a major-''I'm not saying they'll be in a 
appeals Sunday to the unde­sion resounding ity are likely to good mood the day after," he damd voters who will cast the simultaneously INVESTORS FLEE: Stocks, INVESTORS REASSURED: support indepen-said. "But the dust will settle." 
erueial ballots in the vote on through a mu-bonds, currency lose value. Canadian stocks, bonds, currency dence, according The federal government has splitting from Canada. seum auditori-hold value. to polls. But an refused to say how it would "We know we have a chanee CANADIAN DOLLAR "'' h J · respond to ·a "Yes" VO\e. It
urn. PLUNGES: Imports including CANADIAN DOLLAR overw e ming 
could accept Qunbec's indepen­to win -let's grasp it," sep­About 5 mil-food get more expensive. STRENGTHENS: Imports majority of 

aratist leader Lucien Bouchard lion people in cheaper. English-speaking dence, launch a legal challenge, told one of the last rallies bn­the mostly INTEREST RATES RISE: and immigrant or try to force a Canada-wide fore Monday's referendum. French-speaking Bank loans, mortgages, credit INTEREST RATES DROP: Bank Quebeckers are refnrendum or a second one in "Tomorrow night, a peopln will province are eli-card payments more loans, mortgages and credit less expected to vote Quebec.
expensive. expensive.
he born." gible to vote, to stay in The snparatists, if they won, The latnst poll. by the Mon­including rough-COST OF DEBT SERVICING DEBT SERVICING FALLS: Canada. would not declare indn­treal eompany Leger-Leger. Iy 10 percent RISES: Possible tax hikes, Ottawa can step up debt Polling stations pendence immediately. They who said they more government cutbacks. reduction, keep lid on new taxes. open at 10 a.m. have offered to negotiate for up
gave the separatists an edge among decided voters but eon­hadn't made up ECONOMY SLOWS DOWN: ECONOMY PICKS UP: More EST and close at to a year on a new economic 
eluded, after apportioning the their minds as of Jobs lost. jobs created. 8 p.m. EST. The and political partnership undeeideds, that the refer­last week. L___________________________J outcome is between Canada and an inde­endum was a dead heat. Election officials -CP expected to be pendent Quebec, but with the 
"It's impossible to prediet the predict an exceptionally high treal and in Hull, in western known within an hour or two option of unilaterally declaring winning camp," said Jean-Marc turnout. Quebec across the Ottawa Hiver unless it is a virtual tie. independence at any point. Leger, the company's president. The separatists and federal-from Ontario. Bouchard, whose fiery Some Quebeckers say they 
In the dty of Hull, at his last ists each said they were mo-"In this case, to be honest, we speeches have been credited will vote "yes" simply to end rally as !wad of the federalist bilizing more than 80,000 vol-are a bit more touchy because with erasing an early federalist the decades of wrangling over eause. Prime Minister Jean unteers to help maximize the it's more emotional than an lead, played to emotions possible constitutional reforms Chmtinn said separation would turnout of sympathetic voters. election," said Hull policeman Sunday. intended to keep the province btl a dnep loss for all Canadi­"It's urgent," Bouchard told Yves Martel. "There will be one last ques-in Canada while satisfying ans, ineluding his fellow Que­supporters. "Everyone must Montreal riot police were on lion that flashes through our French nationalist demands. heekers. use the hours that are left to standby: Following a 1980 in-minds, before we take the pen­"How much longer will we 
"Canada without Qunbnc is convince one or two undecided dcpendnnce referendum, de-cil and vote 'yes' or 'no,"' he remain torn between a Yes and no longllr Canada," Chretien voters." feated separatists marched said. '"Do I have enough confi-a No?" asked Quebec poet said. "Quebec without Canada Police also were mobilizing, through the wealthy anglo-dence that thn Quebec people Claudn Peloquin in a Montreal is no longN Quebec." particularly in bilingual Mon-phone enclave of Westmount. a can take matters into their own Gazette eolumn Sunday. 






page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, October 30, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Looking beyond the stereotype 
A friend of mine informed me recently Megan McGrath that she hates feminists. Sports Copy Editor 
Ouch, that hurt. Sure, sometimes people don't like you, but to tell you to your face that they hate you? Harsh. 
Yes, I am a feminist. Not a popular thing to admit around here, but I will. 
I am saddened by a trend today among women my age to deny feminism. There are many reasons for denying feminism, includ­ing a perception of feminists as ugly, man­hating, hairy-legged lesbians. It's sad that such stereotypes continue to prosper. Just because you support the equality of sexes doesn't mean you must turn in your razor to Gloria Steinem and stop attending SYRs. 
What disturbs me more is another percep­tion, a perception common among our age. It is that the women's movement is over; it's goals have been achieved, and that there is no need for feminist agitation. 
It is true that women can vote, own proper­ty, file for divorce, attend most schools and be a part of the military. All of these are gains which we can thank feminists for, but there is still much to be done. The fact is, women are still oppressed in all cultures. This oppression works in many different ways, some very blatant but some so insidi­ous they are ingrained in our culture. 
Women make less money then men in the work world. If women dominate an individ­ual profession, they drive the average salary down. Have a hard time believing that this could be true in our "egalitarian" society? By most estimates, women make about 80 cents for every dollar men make, in some professions much less. 
Women are objectified in the media. If you don't believe it, pick up an issue of "Cosmo" or "Glamour" sometime. Check out the advertisements. Look into the vacuous eyes of Kate Moss in an Eternity ad. Count the dif­ferent ways in which women's bodies and sexuality are used to sell anything at all. 
What does this type of objectification do to women? It tells them their bodies are more important than their minds. It encourages low self-esteem, fad dieting, and dangerous eating disorders. Ask around campus. You will be hard-pressed to find someone who hasn't been affected in some way. 
This objectification affects some men just as negatively. Generations of males were raised with the idea that women are objects of some kind: sexual, juvenile or maternal. Thus, it becomes hard to respect women. On a more dangerous plane, this negative image of women encourages and legitimates sexual harassment and assault. 
These are just a few, simply drawn exam­ples of gender-based oppression. If you want to understand it further, take a Gender Studies course or two -it will be eye-opening. It is up to us, both women and men, to change these negative relations. Just as we can thank the suffragettes for the right to vote, so can future generations thank us for achieving equal pay and responsible media. 
My friend hates feminists because she says they are "liberal, support abortion and think that women should do anything men can do." But that's a stereotype just like any other. Plenty of feminists are conservative and against abortion. What they have in common is a concern for the rights and roles of women. In a way, then, shouldn't all caring, intelligent women be feminists? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

News Viewpoint Krisri Kolski Mike O'Hara Bill Connolly Production 
Sports )ana Bruder Rafael Gonzales Belle Bautista Dave Murphy Lab Tech Graphics Tom Johannessen Tom Roland 
Katie Kroener 
The Observ<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
the Associated Press. AJI reproduction rights arc reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Subway fire kills 300 in Azerbaijan 

BAKU, Azerbaijan 
Rescue workers recovered about 300 bodies Sunday from the wreckage of a subway that caught fire in the capital, trapping hundreds of terrified passen­gers. At least 200 others were injured. 
Unable to escape from the packed cars, most of the people who died were killed by carbon monoxide poisoning from burning toxic materials in the train carriages, officials said. 
Azerbaijan declared two days of mourning for the dead. Officials blamed the tragedy, the worst under­ground railway accident in the· former Soviet Union, on the Baku subway's "outdated Soviet" equipment. 
"As soon as the train entered the tunnel I saw a flash," said Tabil Guseinov, 45, a passenger. "Then the flames enveloped the train car, there was a sound of breaking glass, and the lights went out. 
"People started breaking windows to get out. We were starting to suffocate," he said. 
The fire broke out between two subway stations in cen­tral Baku on Saturday afternoon because of a malfunc­tion of the train's electrical system, officials said. 
Survivors described sparks flying from high~voltage ca­bles just after the train left the busy Ulduz station. Rescuers battled the blaze until early Sunday, then pulled the injured and the dead, wrapped in rugs and 
Three elevated toward sainthood 
VATICAN CITY 

A Swiss seamstress and two nuns were beatified Sunday by Pope John Paul II, who praised their dedication to the sick and poor. Beatification is the final step before possible sainthood. Margherita Bays, born in 1815 in the Swiss town of La Pierraz, worked as a seamstress and taught catechism to children. Known for her frequent visits 


to the sick and handicapped, she later she developed stigmata, hand sores that Catholic belief says represent Christ's wounds on the cross. She died in 1879. Maria Teresa Scherer, born in 1825 in Meggen, Switzerland, helped found the Holy Cross Sisters, an order dedicated to treating the sick. The order spread quickly across Europe and more than 1,000 sisters attended her funeral in 1888. Maria Bernarda Butler was born in Auw, Switzerland, in 1848 and founded the Missionary Sisters of Our Lady of Mary. She spent the last seven years of her life in Latin America helping to establish the order. She died in Colombia in 1895. Hundreds of pilgrims from Colombia and Ecuador traveled to ~he Vatican for the beatification ceremony. 

Mexican labor, business make pact 
MEXICO CITY 

In an attempt to drag Mexico's economy out of a 10­month-old slump, business and labor leaders signed a pact Sunday with the government that would cut taxes, raise wages and offer incentives to companies to hire more workers. The plan would raise prices for gasoline and electricity. It also would cut government spending by 
4.75 percent while expanding social services and training programs -a promise that will be hard to keep. Labor Secretary Javier Bonilla Garcia, who announced the plan at the Los Pinos presidential palace, said it forecasts 3 percent economic growth next year with inflation of about 20 percent. Mexico has lost hundreds of thousands of jobs since December, when the peso lost 40 percent of its value. Prices have climbed by 40 percent this year alone, and the economy has shrunk by 5.7 percent. A $52 billion bailout package has saved the Mexican economy. 



Monday, Oct. 30 Accu-Weather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon. Monday, Oct. 30. 
FRONTS: 


~ _..__._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure ~ 
H L B &'S'1 [Til 0 ~ Q (1-r!..._3 U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 50 41 Dallas 79 56 New Orleans 71 62 Baltimore 59 44 Denver 52 31 New Vorl< 58 46 Boston 56 49 Hollis, NY 60 47 Philadelphia 59 48 Chicago 53 34 Los Angeles 77 62 Phoemx 87 60 Columbus 55 42 Miami 86 72 St. Louis 64 40 
blankets, from the tunnel. Police and 
security forces sealed off the area, bar­
ring journalists. 
Authorities initially said only two peo­
ple had died in the fire, but the death 
toll climbed steadily overnight as more 
bodies were found. 
Interior Minister Hamil Usubov told 
The Associated Press on Sunday morn­
ing that at least 289 people had died, 
including 28 children. 
Morgue officials said they counted at 
least 303 bodies, and the independent 
Azerbaijani news agency Turan quoted medical officials as putting the death toll at 337. 
Azerbaijan's health minister, Ali Insanov, said 269 peo­ple were injured. Of the injured, 62 remained hospital­ized Sunday, most of them in serious condition. 
"The main reason was carbon monoxide poisoning, which paralyzes the respiratory system and causes em­physema and instant death," Insanov said. 
It was not known how many people were on the train, officials said. 
In Moscow. where the subway carries 1 million people a day, officials attributed the high death toll to panic among the passengers and, possibly, mistakes by the train driver. 
The high number of deaths may have been caused "by a fire in three to four cars and an ensuing panic." 
Negro League celebrates 75th year 
KANSAS CITY 
Their brand of baseball was as good as the white man's and they played to packed houses wherever they went. They could have been major leaguers but for the color of their skin. They all respect Jackie Robinson for his mental toughness in taking the plunge, but in their hearts, the old Negro Leaguers know that they could have played with the best of them. "Why do they say Josh Gibson is the black man's Babe Ruth?" Josh Gibson Jr. said. "Why don't they say Babe Ruth is the white man's Josh Gibson?" Segregation and prejudice were downplayed as about 200 of the approximate 270 surviv­ing players gathered over the weekend to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Negro National League. But the knowledge of what they had been denied was still there. "I am so glad that so many came to honor these guys who built that bridge against that great chasm of prejudice and segregation," said Buck O'Neil, the power-hitting first baseman who led the dominant Kansas City Monarchs. "It was easier when I got to the majors," said Monte Irvin, who batted .404 in 1946 before reaching the majors with the New York Giants. "The playing conditions were better. If I would have known that, I would have tried to get there faster." 


Wayne still favorite movie star 
NEW YORK 
So he's been dead 16 years. The Duke can still take the likes of Clint Eastwood and Mel Gibson. John Wayne came out on top in the latest Harris Poll survey that asked 1,005 Americans to name their favorite movie star. Eastwood topped the list in 1993 and 1994 but slipped to second place this year, followed by Gibson, Denzel Washington, Kevin Costner and Tom Hanks. Washington was No. 1 with young adults and blacks; Gibson was the top choice of women. No women were in the top 10; Julia Roberts and Demi Moore were the highest-ranking actresses, tying for 22nd. Rounding out the top bunch were Sylvester Stallone, Steven Seagal and Arnold Schwarzenegger, with Robert Redford and Robert DeNiro tied for No. 10. Wayne, who died in 1979, placed second in 1993 and 1994. He won the best-actor Academy Award for his portrayal of the hard-drinking marshal. 



Monday, October 30, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 



Weapon found near ambush site 
By MARGARET SCHERF 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A weapon recovered near a sniper's ambush at Fort Bragg, N.C., was bought at a Maryland shop that federal and state officials say has pro­vided guns connected with nu­merous crimes, a government source said Sunday. 
A 9 mm Glock pistol found at the scene of the shootings Friday was purchased from the Freestate Arms and Munitions gun shop in Temple Hills, Md., in 1990, said the government source, who spoke on condi­tion of not being further identi­fied. 
The name of Army Sgt. William J. Kreutzer, 26, of Clinton, Md., is listed as the purchaser of the gun, said the source. Kreutzer is the suspect in the shootings that killed one and injured 18 at the Army base. 
The owner of the gun shop was arrested Sept. 27 after an investigation by Maryland state police and the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms on charges of having an expired firearms license and selling weapons without having conducted the required baekground eheeks. 
"Gun traees conducted by ATF agents have found that in thn past 18 months, the last recorded point of sale for more than 100 weapons reeovered in erimes was the Freestate Arms and Munitions store," said a news release issued Sept. 27 by Maryland Gov. Parris Glendening. 
"The crimes include 10 homicides and three assaults, including an assault on a police officer." it said. 
The ATF's special agent in charge, Margaret M. Moore, said then that "this is a signifi­cant case because Freestate Arms is responsible for supply-
NOW 
S.R. 23-Next to -Martin's Plaza, 
r-----------~-----------,-----------, 
: Treatzza Pizza :& FREE: 60¢ OFF : 
I ~ $}00 I ---I IJ A s· I
I '\\1-fr\l:;?z-t ' I Ultimate Burger I ~ .ny IZC I I \'\w ., Q ff I Buy One: ·At Rq~ular Price. I ~ Bhzzard Or I I \I -I CL't Tlw s~cond One Free I ~ Yogurt Breeze I I W1th coupon only Coupons may .~ W1th coupon only. CoupOns may ·-I W1!11 coupOn only. Cou~ns may 1
.~ 

1-
I not 1>0 comb1nod W11h ~ny othor 1 ' : I not be comb1ned w1th any other 1. , . · I not be eomb1nod w1th any other , . _ : I otlerrcoupon Limit 2. '+ofleric:oupon. Limit 2. ·~trcr'cot;PQn Llmlt2. '_j
----------------------.-----------,
:~·-·· FREE : ,~. Peanut : Chicken Strip : 

_ Buster Basket
1 ~ 1 1 1
1Grilled Chicken 1 . Parfait 14i . 1 
I 13uy One :\1 Regular Pncc, I I $299 I I Cit·t Tlw Second om· Free IBuy One, Get One Free I I 
I W~n coupon only CoupOn~ may .~ With coupon only. CoupOns may ..I Wilh coupon only. Coop0ns may ..I
1

I not 1>0 combtned wtl~ anv olller , _·_ . I nol oo comb1ned With uny OlhOr 1', _ I not oo combtntld Wilt> any other 1.' , , I 
_____________...... ___________..._ ____________.
ofler,coupo<~ Llmtl 2. • ofletlcouPQn. Limit 2. ' off~r:cwpon. Limit 2. •
1 1 1 1 
P11nted ()1'1 H''CYCiilbto PapOr'A<lveri150 wrth 1/ni·Pak~. Amonca·s Favortte Ma11' (616) 651·-142CoVai·Pak. 9'1995 Vai-Pak ol Northetn lnd1ana. 4·CP. No. 27!>t3-7 
Sniper opens fire on troops
-------------c=J 
ing firearms to criminals. These weapons have been doc­umented through ATF's trac­ing program to have been recovered in violent crimes in Washington, D.C., and (adja­eent) Prince George's County." 
State and federal agents arrested Jay F. Brooking, 39, of Silver Spring, Md., and eharged him with 10 counts of violating laws regarding the proper sale or transfer of pis­tols and revolvers. 
The store was closed by Maryland authorities because the owner had not renewed his license. Authorities said it had been operating without a Maryland Firearms dealers license since July 1. 
State troopers who served a search warrant at the gun store on Sept. 27 said they recovered more than 100 weapons. 
"On one occasion during the investigation, an undercover trooper purchased an Uzi assault pistol over the counter," according to the news release. 
Brooking's phone number was unlisted, and he could not be reached for comment. The phone listing for Freestate was an unworking number. 
MBA symposium speakers cite technological impact 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
Assistant News Editor 
"A company needs to under­stand how to capitalize on their clients' needs by inte­grating strategic intent and technology," according to J. Douglas Berto, an Arthur An­dersen Consulting partner. 
Berto was one of three lec­turers last Friday in the MBA Business and Technology Management Club's Speaker Symposium entitled "Technology Management for the 21st Century." 
Each speaker spoke on the rapid changes in technology and how one must manage its information systems in order to be more successful and compete in the global market­place. 
"Most people aren't given the right skills to manage technology through industrial knowledge and technological solutions. Andersen Consulting tries to reengineer managerial strategies and people's knowledge of their computer systems," said Berto. 
"In this newly interactive world, communication is es­sential though employees are scattered all throughout the world. 
"Andersen Consulting has designed a virtual reality information systems in which one can communicate through their computer at any time, listen in to others' meetings, and can even set up your own meetings. We wouldn't be in business if it weren't for 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323 
Direct from New York! 

You've Seen Stomp on: 
The Late Show with David Letterman • The Tonight Show • CNN News • Good Morning America • Dateline NBC 
Students: $5.00 off wI school id. 
November 28 •29 • 30 
f.och 8p.m. evening 
Morris Civic Auditorium Reserved Seats: Now on sale at the Morris box office, the usual outlets, or charge by phone: (219) 235-9190 
Kids 1/2 price Coupons At Participating Michiana 
~­
~~~~­
technology," said Berto. 
Now with business integra­tion centers that focus on futuristic research networks, Institutes for Learning Sciences that concentrate on multi-media training, and key alliances with technologically advanced companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, and IBM, technology is becom­ing integrated into the day-to­day runnings of business and employees can begin to utilize their computer skills on a daily basis, according to Berto. 
Joseph Keithley, Chairman, President, and CEO of Keithley Instruments, Inc. also spoke at Friday's symposium. Keithley Instruments provides instru­mentation to semiconductor manufacturers, medical equip­ment manufacturers, and growth segments of the elec­tronics industry. 
Scientists and engineers around the world use Keithley's advanced hardware and software for measurement tests, data acquisition, and control. 
Harold Feeney, the second symposium speaker, now Vice President of Pathfinder Re­search Inc., has participated in strategic consulting and mar­ket analysis with Pathfinder since its inception in 1991. 
Prior to joining Pathfinder, Feeney, managing a group of professionals who carried out research on all aspects of the semiconductor industry, had direct responsibility for US semiconductor research as well as coordinating European and Japan-based research. 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, October 30, 1995 
Mediators try to keep peace Queen's image upheld 
By JASMINA KUZMANOVIC 
Associated Press 
ZAGREB, Croatia 

With crucial peace talks on Bosnia just days away, diplo­mats struggled Sunday to keep Croats and Serbs from starting a new war over a slice of land in eastern Croatia. 
The dispute also was central to Sunday's Croatian parlia­mentary elections, which were expected to give President Franjo Tudjman a new man­date to continue his tough line against the Serbs. 
Talks on returning a piece of Serb-occupied territory to Croatian control broke down Saturday, raising the specter of new warfare that could un­dermine the peace plan for neighboring Bosnia. 
"That's why we're strongly insisting that all parties refrain from use of force," Peter Galbraith, U.S. ambassador to Croatia, said Sunday. 
Tudjman repeatedly has threatened to send in the army to take back the territory, known as eastern Slavonia, if negotiations fail. 
He already has used military force twice this year to retake other land that had been held by rebel Serbs since Croatia's 1991 war of secession from Yugoslavia. 
Galbraith said he hoped the issue could be resolved when the presidents of Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia gather for peace talks that start Wednes­day in Dayton, Ohio. 
Although the negotiations are aimed primarily at ending 3 1/2 years of bloodshed in Bosnia, Tudjman has managed to move Croatia's land dispute to center stage. 
His threats to retake eastern Slavonia left U.S. and U.N. en-
Racicot 
continued from page 1 
lot more than those running think they know and make judgments." 
Racicot also discussed sever­al issues of importance to the state of Montana including the issues of welfare and the Montana militia. 
Welfare has been a central concern of Racicot in his term of office. Since his election, he has worked to enact the most far reaching plan for welfare in the nation, one of three in the nation that has been given exemptions by President Clinton to serve as an experi­mental welfare program. 
"While we only have 35,000 clients, it will have just as pro­found an effect on them as the more numerous clients in New York or New Jersey," he said. 
Concerning the militia, Raci­cot feels that many of the voys with little choice but to include the matter in the Ohio talks. 
"It's a difficult road ahead, and we should not have unrealistically high expecta­tions," Galbraith said. "We're concerned that military action could disrupt the peace ef­forts." 
Bosnian Serb leaders ex­pressed hopes for the talks, but warned of new problems. Nikola Koljevic, a senior Bosnian Serb official who will take part in the talks, accused Tudjman of cutting electricity supplies to the Serb stronghold of Banja Luka in northern Bosnia. 
Experts predict a big victory by Tudjman's party in Sun­day's elections, which he called a year early to exploit the army's recent success in driving Serbs from land they held in southern and western Bosnia. 
Tudjman's anti-Serb theme was going over strongly in many areas. 
"It is known who we will vote for. They liberated our land," said Dragica Fabijanac, 62, as she waited to vote in Glina, a town retaken from Serb rebels this year. 
Tudjman's Croatian Demo­cratic Union and a closely al­lied ultra-nationalist party aim to win a two-thirds majority in the parliament -enough to allow them to amend the con­stitution at will. 
Officials in Tudjman's party, which now holds 78 of 138 seats in the current parlia­ment, say they want to strengthen the presidency. 
Opponents accuse Tudjman, a former Communist general, of creating a de facto single­party state. The opposition has 
same feelings have existed since long ago but those hold­ing these beliefs are only now gaining more visibility. 
"We have found that there are people with strong con­cerns about the government reaching too far, but there has always been a certain amount of that coursing through the country. Things such as the Internet have allowed the mili­tia to become more cohesive and visible," said Racicot. 
He also feels, however, that the militia is not a "stable membership" yet it can point out problems within the coun­try. 
"We have seen that we as a democracy can be lethargic and remove ourselves. In that context, these antagonistic movements can suggest just how delicate democracy is," stated Racicot. 
Racicot, 47, served as Mon­tana's attorney general from 1989-93 and is now nearing the completion of his first term as governor. 
t!:bt' .fliltfOJlilf $11Jit ' ' : I 'i ' J I I i 
pres· 
HAN 
Tickets $8 general $6 students 
Available at LaFun
,..9Information Desk.

.:.,1 
Call631-8128 __;, _ _ for reservations 
~nTtf"ll"lO'IIIJI"RO 
LET 
8:00PM 
Friday Nov. 3, Washington Hall 
(UJ 

almost no access to the state television and radio monopoly, which is firmly in Tudjman's control. 
In all, 31 parties are com­peting for the support of 3.6 million registered voters in Croatia and about 500,000 abroad. Preliminary results were expected Monday. 
The governing party also amended election laws in its favor, reducing the size of par­liament's lower house to 127 seats. 
Twelve are reserved for Croats living outside Croatia; the number guaranteed for Serbs in Croatia has been reduced to three, from 13. 
The new election law also allowed as many as a half-mil­lion Croats in Bosnia to vote. That angered the Bosnian gov­ernment, which is wary of Tudjman's political power in wide areas of northern and western Bosnia. 
"This is absolutely normal that I can vote in both states," said one elderly man, who refused to give his name, as he voted in Sarajevo. 
He said he was voting for Tudjman's party because "it will protect interests of us Croats here." 
Tudjman's fervent national­ism could backfire in his rela­tions with the West at a time when his country is trying to join Western institutions and obtain loans. 
Many governments con­demned his offensives to re­take Serb-held territory in May and August. 
An estimated 180,000 Croatian Serbs fled the August offensive. U.N. and U.S. envoys reported evidence that Croatian soldiers, police and civilians burned and looted Serb homes and murdered Serb civilians. 
after disc jockey hoax 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Prying on the royal family is a serious business for British tabloids. 
But on Sunday the poachers turned game­keepers. Some tried to get revenge on a Canadian disc jockey for tricking Q u e e n Elizabeth II Queen into an on-Elizabeth II air phone call about Quebec's indepen­dence. All agreed she came out of it very well. 

Britons seldom hear the queen's voice and when they do, she's usually making a set speech. 
So to hear the 69-year-old monarch asking the disc jockey she thought was Canadian Prime Minister Jean Chretien to "Hang on a minute," and switching between French and English made fascinating lis­tening. 
"Her Majesty comes over as a cross between a busy house­wife and multilingual, clued up businesswoman," commented 
Carver 
continued from page 1 
N.Y. He has also been very active with the Catholic Worker. 
Julian Pheasants, Carver's host here at Notre Dame, served as Carver's press agent along with the elderly couple he had stayed with in Elkhart the night before, arranging an interview on Thursday with the local news station, Channel 22. 
the tabloid Sunday Mirror. 
Also interesting was the way the queen never said anything embarrassing, even when discy jockey Pierre Brassard started talking about Halloween and suggesting she put on a nice hat. 
Commercial radio and tele­vision stations played repeated extracts from the 17-minute call set up by Brassard posing as Chretien and asking her to appeal to Quebeckers not to vote for separatism on Monday. 
The British Broadcasting Corp., whose charter forbids broadcasting secretly taped conversations, carried stories about the hoax. 
Buckingham Palace officials say Brassard got through to the queen -who is also the monarch of Canada -because when they checked with Chre­tien's office, a member of his staff said he probably wanted to speak to her. 
The People, another London tabloid weekly, published what it said was Brassard's phone number and extension at Radio CKOI and his broadcasting times. 
"So get dialing," The People told its readers, describing the dupe as a "cruel prank." 
"Frank has covered the coun­try with his peace marches. His message of peace is some­thing he can leave his grand­children: He is a remarkable man," said Pheasants. 
Carver spent both Friday and Saturday talking with universi­ty officials concerning Peace Net's goals and focus. He also collected signatures in front of the administration building of those who were interested in supporting ND Peace Net. 
"It's been long but reward­ing. My son is coming to meet me here at the end of my walk. 


OCTOBER 30th 

8:00 GHOSTBUSTERS 
10:00 LOST BOYS 
12:00 THE EXORCIST 
Popcom, Soda, Cookies, Goodie Bags ABSOLUTELY FREE 
La Fortune Ballroom 

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, Ocotber 30, 1995 
Stor01 rocks Philippines, kills 68 
Associated Press 
BACOLOD, Philippines 

Tropical storm Zack whipped through the Philippines over the weekend, killing at least 68 people and leaving thousands homeless before heading into the South China Sea on Sunday. 
With peak winds of 65 mph, the storm destroyed hundreds of houses and major roads, knocked out power lines in many areas, and sank a ship and several boats. 
Zack struck hardest on the islands of Negros and Panay. 
The death toll was raised to 68 Sunday when three bodies were found in Bacolod, 380 miles south of Manila. Several people were missing Sunday, most of them shanty dwellers whose homes were swept away by swollen rivers. 
Officials said a motorized outrigger canoe capsized off Bacolod, on Negros, at the height of the storm Saturday night, but rescuers -later found its six passengers. 
One of them, 9-year-old John Ray Tayag, told a radio station that he was separated from his father and four other men Saturday night when their boat overturned. 
"I held on to the outrigger and never let go of it. I thought I would never see my father again," the weeping boy said as he was reunited with his father Sunday. 

Gov. Rafael Coscoluella said the storm lasted only an hour in Negros Occidental but caught many people unpre­pared. The storm hit the island at 8 p.m. Saturday, hours after 
pummeling Cebu, west of Negros. 
From Negros, the storm swept northwestward to Panay Island before midnight, caus­ing floods that have isolated many towns from Iloilo City, the island's main urban cen­ter. 
Officials said at least 57 peo­ple drowned on Negros and 24 were injured. On Panay, flood­ing drowned four people; two were reported missing and more than 50,000 people evac­uated. Six people died on the island of Cebu. 
An inter-island ship capsized Saturday and later sunk be­tween Leyte and Camotes is­lands northeast of Cebu City, killing one person. Coast Guard officials said 49 people, all crew members, were res­cued by three ships responding to a distress signal. 
In Manila, President Fidel Ramos ordered calamity funds released for affected areas. 
By early Sunday night, the weather bureau said Zack was moving northwestward into the South China Sea and far­ther away from central Philippines. 
Zack, locally named Pepang, was the 13th tropical storm to enter the Philippine area this year, and the worst to hit Cebu since 1990. 
Yeltsin remains in hospital 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

President Boris Yeltsin was 
reported in stable condition 
Sunday. three days after being 
hospitalized for heart trouble. 
Doctors monitored the presi­
dent closely overnight and re­
ported no change in his condi­
tion, newspapers reported. 
Yeltsin, 64, was taken to 
Moscow's Central Clinical 
Hospital in a helicopter Thurs­
day with his second bout of 
heart trouble in four months. 
Medics attributed both at­
tacks to acute ischemia, a con­
dition that restricts the flow of 
blood to the heart. 
On Saturday. the president 
did some paperwork. !lis doc­
tors said he is not well enough 
to receive visitors, the Interfax 
news agency reported Sunday. 
Aides say Yeltsin will have to stay away from the Kremlin until December. He may stay in the hospital or go to a gov­ernment resort outside Moscow where he recuperated from heart troubles in July. 
The president took ill just seven weeks ahead of the Dec. 17 parliamentary elections, and 
Mideast summit begins with dreams of prosperity 
ByGREGMYRE 
Associated Press 
AMMAN, Jordan 
After decades of war and political feuding, Mideast na­tions opened their biggest eco­nomic conference Sunday to search for ways to make up for years of lost development. 
Hundreds of foreign busi­nessmen, many of them from the United States and Europe, came in search of new mar­kets. Government officials handed out thick booklets with ambitious plans for regional highways, airports and rail­roads. 
The discussions are expected to produce more networking than actual deals, but the gath­ering symbolizes the effort to set aside age-old conflicts and focus on the pressing need for social development. 
"For too long this has been a region of warriors and wid­ows," said Secretary of State Warren Christopher. "It once again should become a region of builders and traders." 
Christopher urged the Arab world to end its boycott of Is­rael, saying it "impedes re­gional economic integration." 
The United States has long opposed the boycott, which was imposed after Israel was established in 1948 on the Arab land of Palestine. The boycott has weakened consid­erably since Israel negotiated peace agreements with the Palestinians in 1993 and Jor­dan in 1994. 
Altogether, about 2,000 gov­ernment officials and business leaders from 60 countries were taking part in the three-day conference, officially the Middle East-North Africa Economic Summit. 
Israel's Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said economic reform was badly needed, and countries couldn't expect large inflows of foreign capital sim­ply because they had signed peace agreements. 
"No one will come here be­cause of our winning smiles," Rabin told delegates at Jor­dan's Palace of Culture. "They all want to make money." 
1995-96 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
FRIDAY, NOV. 3, 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM $5 SMC/ND COMMUNITIES $4 STUDENTS 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located 



Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 

Call 234•0363 
(24hours} 
SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 
his health problems are expect­ed to boost his hard-line and nationalist foes, who are already making significant gains. 
A presidential vote is sched­uled for June. 
CANDAX McNAIR PROGRAM 
Organizational Meeting with DR. MARIO BORELLI DIRECTOR, CANDAX 

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1995 
7:00 P.M. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (CUSHING) 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES 
WHO ARE EITHER FIRST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS ON FINANCIAL AID OR FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE WELCOME REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING AT 8:00 P.M. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------· 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, October 30, 1995 
page 7 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Bwiness Manager Elizab<th Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Adveuising Manager ........................... John Potter Vinvpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sporn Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ........•................ Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Edi10r .................... Paui Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reAect the policies of the administra­tion of either lnstitmion. The news is reported as accurately and objecdvdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Edi10r, Viewpoint EditOr, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, lc:ners and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those 
'Of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-m-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Office E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Clarifying misconceptions about Northern Ireland 
Dear Editor: 
I am aware that Gerry Adams is no longer scheduled to speak at the univer­sity on Nov. 1. Nevertheless, after read­ing all that has been written in The Observer concerning his would-be visit, I felt that I had clarify what I see as mis­conceptions. 
I spent a year studying on Saint Mary's College Ireland Program when I was an undergraduate at Saint Mary's. That year biased my opinions on the conflict in Northern Ireland from August of 1994 to August of this year. This experience helped remove some of the biases I acquired during my time at Maynooth. Some of what I have to say is based on the experiences I had of doing cross­community work with people from the Catholic and Protestant communities in Northern Ireland. Some of what I have to say is based on what I have learned from history books. 
On Oct. 24, 1995 two editorials appeared in The Observer. One, by Carol Ann Lind, voiced concerns about where the money given for Adams' visit would be spent. While I share those concerns, it is necessary to point out some incor­rect information. The Irish Republican Army has more than a twenty year his­tory of killing people. "The Troubles," as the open conflict has been termed, start­ed in 1969. The cease-fire was declared in 1994 on the twenty-fifth anniversary of open conflict. The IRA has been around, in various forms, for much longer than this even. 
Moreover, I was disappointed in the letter from the representatives of SUB, Student Activities and Student Government. All me to quote, "The con­flict between Northern Ireland and Great Britain is one which affects many Notre Dame students and their fami­lies.~ First of all, the conflict in Northern Ireland is between those who live in Northern Ireland, the Catholics (who typically consider themselves Irish) and the Protestants (who typically consider themselves British). To those who live in Northern Ireland, it is not a conflict between Northern Ireland and Great Britain. They might say it is a conflict between Northern Ireland and Great Britain. They might say it is a conflict between Ireland and the United Kingdom, but they would not say it is a conflict between Northern Ireland and Great Britain. 
Secondly, I feel the statement that the conflict is "one which affects many Notre Dame students and their families" is insensitive to those who live in Northern Ireland whom it truly affects_ It is difficult for me to believe that this conflict can deeply affect most students at this university. To those who are from Northern Ireland and those with close family members there, I will grant this assertion. At the risk of offending many, I will not grant it to those who are of Irish descent_ My reason for saying this is that my experience has shown me that most of the Irish people living in the Republic of Ireland are not even truly affected by the conflict_ In fact, most of my Irish friends from the Republic have never even been in the North and have no vested interest in the North. Therefore. I have a hard time accepting that this conflict is one that affects many Notre Dame students. To say it does is to devalue the pain of those whom it truly affects: those who have had parents and siblings killed in the conflict and those who live in fear of who will be the next victim of the fighting. 
By way of further comment. I would like to add that it was in the 1600s that the idea of the Ulster plantations was formed with the consent of the English king. At this point, English and Scottish people settled in Ulster in order to ensure the rebellions, which were so common there, would end -Ulster being the nine counties which comprise one of the four ancient provinces of Ireland. (Let me add as a note, it was also at this time that the first settlers came to America. None of us with European roots doubt our right to remain in America even though the Native Americans were here prior to when our ancestors arrived.) As history demonstrates, the plantations did not end the rebellions. 
In 1921, the Irish Free State, now called the Republic of Ireland, and what is now called Northern Ireland were formed. Strictly speaking, Northern Ireland should not be equated with Ulster because only six of the nine his­torical counties of Ulster comprise Northern Ireland. 
In 1969, open violence broke out in Derry, starting "The Troubles_" To this day, Northern Ireland remains a place of conflict, even though a cease-fire was declared in August of 1994_ 
What most people do not realize is that the conflict today should be best understood as a conflict between nation­alities. It is a conflict between two peoples, one who does not want to be British and one who does not want to be Irish. It just so happens that most of those who call themselves Irish are Catholics and most of those who call themselves British are Protestants. 
I wonder how many people throughout the world are aware that there are Protestant paramilitary groups in Northern Ireland. I wonder how many people are aware that the fighting that goes on in Northern Ireland is, accurate­ly stated, between those who see them­selves as British and those who see themselves as Irish who live in Northern Ireland. It is not a war between the IRA and the British troops, though the IRA often attacks British soldiers and bombs London. I wonder how many people know this. 
Moreover, most of the people I met in Northern Ireland did not care so much whether they were part of the United Kingdom or part of the Republic of · Ireland. They just want the fighting to 
'Jt is a conflict 
between two peo­ples... It just so hap­pens that most of those who call themselves Irish are Catholics and most of those who call 
themselves British are Protestants.' 
end. 
I have many Protestant friends who see Northern Ireland as their home, though they call themselves British and wish to remain British. Their parents, grandparents, great-grandparents, and so on were all born in Northern Ireland. Some have lived in the family house for generations. To tell them to get out would be just as wrong as to tell all the Irish in Northern Ireland to get out (and this does happen). Though I do not know what the solution is, the solution cannot be to kick people out of their homes. 
What I do know is that the people in Northern Ireland must decide what their fate is. The vio­lence will not end because Americans, who are ignorant of the complexities of the problems, shout for the reunification of Northern Ireland to the Republic. Actually, I assert that this aggravates ten­sions. 
As one final note, I must say that I do not understand all that happens in Northern Ireland, but I do have a rela­tively informed understanding of what goes on there. If anyone cares to really understand, I suggest he or she goes and lives in Northern lreland. Studying about it cannot tell anyone enough to form an opinion of who is right and who is wrong in Northern Ireland. Go and talk to the people who live there. Go and realize that large portions of the popula­tion do not support Sinn Fein or its Protestant political eqoivalent. Go and listen. Go and realize that there are" no easy answers. 
By the way, I was planning on going to Gerry Adams' lecture. I was interested in what he would say. 
ANDREA COX 
Graduate Student in Divinity Breen-Phillips Hall 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DOONESBURY 
YOU {AU 7HI5AR:r? 615T­YOU MAY NOT 8f3. 51CK! PO
I K/1/&W IT/ I KNEW 

TING PWPL£ 7V 8/iU&V/3 IN A COWl, JJ., YOUH!fAR.
7HI5 II/AS A P£1<.­~R.
YOU'~ OYING? tuHATING005 8UT YOU'R/3
FORMAA/Ce! M/3? 51~ NOTM£N­
NAM/3 tu&R.e YOU THINKING? SI~AU. 
H&'S 5/CK, 770N 7l-ll3
~~~/ RIGI-tTI 
NOT 
51a<! MINI-CAM... 

TAKING I 7HI5 
0 
0 
0

a!Ul. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Allthe world over, I will back the masses against the classes." 
-William Ewart Gladstone 

VIEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, October 30, 1995 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The truth about Louis Farrakhan 
I
would like to address the dialogue sur­rounding the attacks on Minister Louis Farrakhan and criticisms of the Million Man March on Washington. 
Many people (national leaders, media, and lay persons) are making strong state­ments in support of the 'message' of the March, hut have outspoken problems with the 'messenger', Farrakhan. I recognize that most leaders are slaves to the politics of supporting 'radical', 'controversial' leaders. I also recognize that it is funda­mentally possible to be in agreement with a message and not necessarily with the person from which it comes. I have no problem with that. 
However, I say to all that wish to attempt to separate the man from the message; understand that 
replaces it with the truths of history, and proposes tangible solutions to destabilize the cycle of mental and economical servi­tude that 400-odd years of enslavement have provided black people. 
Other than claim that Asians and Jews are 'blood-suckers' of the black communi­ty, what else has the 'man' done? Has he called for violence against those commu­nities? No. Has he sat back and whined about their lack of community responsi­bility? Maybe; but let's discuss his tangi­ble accomplishments. He has established The Final Call Newspaper as the highest selling Black Newspaper in the country. He is in the process of taking NOI pro­ceeds to purchase farmland in order to transform the African-American from a 
consumer to a produc­
it is more important to er. delineate, in your heart, He has taken the the media from the man, 'Jt is more important donations of NOI before you can begin to to delineate, in your programs to build a try to pass judgment on multi-million dollar
heart, the media from 
Farrakhan. Quite simply, restaurant called how many of you who the man... Quite simply, Salaam, on one of the condemn Farrakhan have most destitute blocks
how many of you that
taken the time to step on the South Side of outside of what the media condemn Farrakhan Chicago. Located on gives you? In words taken 79th and Halsted,
have taken the time to 
from a rap song of the Salaam too, has a huge 'acceptable' rap group, step outside of what illuminated Crescent Public Enemy: the media gives you?.' and Star at the top that shines on the communi­
''I'm a follower of Farrakhan/Don't tell me that you under­stand/until you hear the man." {Don't Believe the Hype, 1988 }. 
I
've had the unique opportunity to watch Farrakhan grow and evolve through the years. I am a product of the inner-city of Chicago's gang infested, economically deprived South Side. I grew up three blocks from Mosque Maryam, one of Farrakhan's most prominent and influen­tial Mosques in the country. On 73rd and Stony Island, a thoroughfare riddled with burned-out apartment tenements and broken black businesses, the Mosque spans an entire block. Maryam is a phe­nomenon and a welcome sight to see shine over the area. At the ~pex of the structure, an illuminated Crescent and Star can be seen miles away. Adjacent to the Mosque, Farrakhan has established The University of Islam, a self-supported educational institution. In an area that only sends six percent of its high school students to four year colleges, Farrakhan is a man that deserves better coverage than the media has decided to illustrate in recent weeks. 
I've seen first-hand what the actual man has done. I've watched him grow and evolve differently than the media would like to portray him. He is a realist that understands that "The Black Man Must Do For Self' (motto of the NOI). Is that a · message of hate? No. Is that a message of separatism? In some ways, yes. However, I don't believe The University of Notre Dame is equally attacked as institutions of separatism. (Oh-have I hit too close to home? Ask yourself how many African­Americans are admitted here that aren't participating in athletic programs. Ask yourself what particular communities the university chooses to recruit in for talent­ed minorities). 
T
For the purpose of 'doing for self-tak­ing care of one's own', he has reached out to where black men are-incarcerated in jails around the nation. A strong percent­age of NOI members are reformed crimi­nals, not unlike the NOI's most prominent son, Malcolm X. Many of these men were former drug dealers, gang members, and welfare recipients. Presently, they serve as strong models of self-reliance in my community, and they are dedicated to dis­cipline, self-love, and respect of woman­hood. They do not sit around and talk about 'what the white man has done' 24 hours a day. For example, in order to become a member of the 'Fruit' of Islam, one must give up premarital sex, alcohol, drugs, and profanity among other vices. Farrakhan demands that Fruit of Islam members dedicate their lives around humility, education, healthy eating, and upliftment of the black community. hrough these means, Farrakhan 
works to destroy the 'slave mentality', 
ty. This restaurant.employs hundreds of people that were previously unemployed. The profits of Salaam are redirected into the community. Salaam challenges socio-eco­nomic elitism-it has three 'levels' of din­ing that cater from those less financially stable to those accustomed to spending larger amounts of money on a meal. Salaam is a self-run, non-governmentally supported black business success. 
Thus, to all of you (and your parents) that feel cheated out of tax dollars because the country is so busy trying to support the destitute and unfortunate, maybe you might want to reconsider your position on the 'man'. Obviously, he has no care for reparations anymore from this country and hopes to develop an econom­ic and spiritual institution that serves to pull an underprivileged group out of a stagnant situation. This mindset is what makes the 'man', and contrary to what the media might lead you to believe, hun­dreds of thousands came to D.C. because of the man, not only for tl~e message. 
I
It is sickening that so many people continually prove themselves to be believing fools of the media's p~opaganda. In one breath, grumbling whites (and many blacks) claimed that the media cir­cus is what was responsi­ble for O.J. Simpson's acquittal. Many people claim that the public/media involvement in the trial (as well as the so-called 'race-card') led to Simpson's freedom. At the same time, the same people have begun to con­demn Minister Farrakhan because of the 10 to 30 second segments that the media ran on him, without thinking to research the 'man' before making a rational deci­sion. Such hypocrisy. t fills me with contempt that people would be so easily duped by the 'polls' that were taken before, during, and after the march, when we have witnessed only weeks ago (in the Simpson trial) how easi­ly malleable polls can be. Most polls said negatively that only 20 to 40 percent of the people who attended the march had positive opinions of Minister Farrakhan. Did the poll-takers ever bother to investi­gate how many of these people had a clear understanding of Farrakhan before the media's castration? Further, if there were between 400,000 to one million peo­ple at the rally, consider what influence Farrakhan holds aside from the 'message' that everyone so readily accepts. Any sta­tistician or sports fan knows that statistics can be manipulated to reflect anything. I implore you all to take the time to investi­gate things before falling victim to media representation-again. 
I hope that anyone who wants to take an position on Farrakhan take the time out to read an actual transcript of his address at the March. CNN has provided it on the Netscape at the following a d d -r e s s http://www3 .cnn.com/US/9510/mega­march/march.html. Until then, I don't want to hear anyone tell me about how they believe he is a man of hate. From my perspective, and from my informed knowledge and understanding of Minister Farrakhan and his development and evo­lution. 
S
I would submit to you that he is first and foremost, a man of fact. I challenge you to find a lack of truth in any of the words in his speech and I will be happy to have dialogue with you. Also, he under­stands that African-Americans, as a col­lective, have an economic base that is strong enough to lift its own out of eco­nomic dependence. His prime objective has nothing to do with hate-but rather to make people who have have limited knowledge of self-determination recog­nize that stability is possible: through self­reliance, knowledge of self, and knowl­edge of history. econdly, he is a man that cares about the well-being of people (black, white, and others) that live under the tenets of white supremacy (i.e.-racism). He calls the perpetrators (as he specifically identi­fies. "some-not all white people") of these conditions 'sick' people. When was the last time your doctor, or a friend, told you honestly-based on tangible realities, that you had a problem? In what circum­stance do you interpret such diagnosis as a sentiment of hate? Quite simply, only when you don't want to hear the truth. That is why so many people are uncom­fortable with Farrakhan's fiery state­ments. 
I read an article about a white woman who's car stalled on a street adjacent to the march. Rather than asking for assis­tance from the million men around her, she left her keys in the car and ran away; so sad. However, it further illustrates how people permit the media and its stereo­typing nature own their minds and hearts. If she had taken the time to see that one million men were standing around, hug­ging each other, professing their love to one another; she would have understood that hate was the furthest thing from their minds. The love that saturated the steps 
of Capitol Hill cannot 
be separated from the 
man that brought it 
together. 
I'd be a fool to say 
that Farrakhan's ide­
ology is not without 
flaws, as he himself 
recognizes (again, in 
his speech). But, he 
has had the courage 
(unlike countless 
African -Arne ric an 
leaders) for decades to 
address the root of the 
problems of the black 
community, regardless 
of whether his obser­
vations are acceptable to civil rights lead­
ers, churches, or the media. The man 
exposes the complex problems that face 
black America, and the solution that he 
shared with the world on Oct. 16 had 
nothing to do with hate or separatism 
from humanity, but rather everything to 
do with love and self-realization of 
responsibility. 
F
inally, I would like to distance my 
statements from bias somewhat-I am 
not an active member of the NOI. Also, 
this explication is by no means an attempt 
to convert your ideas. Keep them if you 
wish; this is merely meant to expand your 
understanding with another perspective 
of the 'story'. There will never be an easy 
agreement on the the words of Farrakhan 
and other 'radical' vo1ces. After all, revo­
lutionaries will not, and should not be 
readily accepted by the masses; if they 
were, they wouldn't be revolutionary. 
ROBERT LANE 
Doctoral Candidate in English Fischer Graduate Residences 
Facts absent in 
'uninformed' 
• • . <fWEE:·i::.dj$+"='··, 
DV~DJons,;;; .. n ·A····..·dams·'•'ill:i

:=:·:<k . . . . . . 
.. ,AI[fe 
::·:·:::)~:::1?>. :...=:··.::...::.::: lng. inrespo~$<1 to.,;. 
t. ...•...... { l~tter fron1.Caror 
APn, I.Jn<i~ ".~Q n10ney should go ;;,to Ada1U~/~ ln her letter Lind 
•· e~pref:ll!~S an uninform.ed, one­$ided opinion that gives no con~ .sidera,~on to the history of "the trm.Jhles" in the North of Ireland or to Sinn Fein and the IRA. 
Perhaps Lind should have considered the history of Ireland in making her bold statement concerning the most recent manifestation of a mil­lennium-old conflict between Britain and Ireland. What Lind fails to note in her statement that the IRA has a "twenty year history of killing people," is that Britain has an 800 year history of killing Irish people, and the Scots-Irish Protestants of the North of Ireland a 300 year his­tory. 
Let us consider the simple facts. On the side of the Protestant cause is the British military, the government of Northern Ireland, the police force and well-supplied para~ military organizations. On the side of the Catholics is the IRA, armed with makeshift bombs, stones, and limited weaponry. Since 1969, the IRA has killed fewer· people than have the combined Protestant forces, as well as fewer innocent people. The IRA have confined their attacks to political targets, while the Protestant regime attack Catholics in general. Amnesty International and the United Nations have repeatedly found the British guilty of human rights violations in Northern Ireland. 
Yes, the IRA do kill people­in self-defense. Half the popula­tion of Ireland was starved to death or forced to emigrate in the 1800s, due in large part to British economic policy. Recent British policy in Northern Ireland has led to inhuman treatment of Catholics, which has facilitated such atrocities as the stringing of rosary beads between gouged eyesockets of an elderly Catholic woman in the North, I ask you, when have the Irish turned the other cheek enough times? 
Most importantly, Lind does not realize that Sinn Fein is not the IRA. Sinn Fein is a national­ist political party found in the mid-1900s. The modern IRA (not to be confused with the IRA of the Black and Tan War of the 1920s) is a group that simply defends Irish Catholics against the Black and Tans; paramili­taries such as the UDA, UDF and UVA; religious fanatics such as Ian Paisley; and the govern­ment of the North itself. 
Gerry Adams has championed the cause of peace in the north. not violence. He is not a mem­ber of the IRA; he is president of the lea<iing nationalist political party. The· funds raised by Sinn Fein do not go to the IRA, they go to the betterment of welfare 
, of Catholics in the North and toward the peaceful reuniting of Ireland. Next time you inveigh against a cause. Lind, perhaps you should understand the cause you attack. 

DANIEL MURPHY 
Sophomore Dillon Hall 

'obviously, he has 
no care for repa­rations anymore from this country and hopes to develop an economic and spiritual institution that serves to pull an underprivileged group out of a stagnant situa­tion.' 
Football 1995. ·. 
Notre Dame Boston College 
20-10 

Pitchin' Prowess 
An increasingly capable li· Ron Powlus initiated Notre Dame's power · ·Jfll· running attack 
-see page 2 
The Irish took possession of the ball with 12:23 remain­ing Inthe fourth quarter. The Eagles didn't see it again until the 2:37 mark. 

Marc Edwards For the second straight week, Edwards was the focus of the Irish offense. He rambled for 
167 yards on 28 carries. · 
"They were living off the past. We were more focused · on this season.~ ••iris}; /it~~bncklf!' Lyro11 Cobbim 
rounded 

Irish running game steamrolls Eagles to cloud past memories 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
Weeks from now, no one will be able to recall one specific play that put Notre Dame on its way to a 20-10 win over Boston Col­lege Saturday. 
But there will be plenty of reasons to remember the game's significance. 
"I don't have a ring on my finger because of them," offensive guard Hyan Leahy said, alluding to the Eagles 41-39 upset win in 1993. "It feels great to beat a team which made such a big deal out of beating us." 
In addition to the revenge factor, the Irish needed to win to stay in the hunt for a major bowl game. At 7-2 and with two ser­vice academies left to play, they look to be in the driver's seat. 
With all of this to play for, it was easy to see the emotion flowing out of the Irish 
see IRISH I page 2 


• Jock Strip 
Victory slight satisfaction for prior traumas 
A
fter it was over, both sides tried to adhere to the· typical story-line. 
"It's no secret that our players and our school consider this a 

big football game, and will always consider it '----------' a big game," patron-Tim Seymour ized Boston College Associate Sports head coach Dan Editor Henning. 
"It's tremendous how important this game is," said Notre Dame's Marc Edwards. "We're trying to put past sea­sons behind us." 
"We kept reminding ourselves all year long, hey, we've got BC coming up, we'vn got to get going," added offensive tackle Mike Doughty. 
The reality, though, was that Grudge Match IV resembled a bridge game more than a football rivalry. 
The game was hard-fought, of that there is no doubt. There was intensity and little sloppiness. 
Perhaps, then, it is the lingering pain of' the past two losses to the Boys from Beantown that is troublesome. 
The ghosts from them might havn been exorcised on Saturday. But they were not driven away with scorn and fury hereto­fore unseen in the Irish. They were not made ashamed for having presumed 
see SEYMOUR I page 3 


The Observer/Rob Finch Irish fullback Marc Edwards rambles for some of his 167 yards Saturday during Notre Dame's 20-1 0 victory over Boston College. Edwards gained the most yards for an Irish back since Lee Becton's 177 against USC in 1993. 

Edwards, Irish offensive grune plan straightforward 
Irish 
continued from page I 
players. You needed a magnifying glass to fmd the flair. Flair wasn't in the Notre Dame game plan, though. 
The Irish simply brought their lunch boxes to Notre Dame Stadium Saturday, methodically pulling out fullback dive after fullback dive until the Eagles were sick to their stomachs. 
"With the nature of their stunts, they're death on tailbacks," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "We felt this was the type of defense where the fullback could have a game." 
Marc Edwards had, quite possibly, the game of his life. The fullback gained 167 yards on 28 carries and scored two touchdowns. 
He had seven straight carries on Notre Dame's final scoring drive, which took up almost ten minutes of the fourth quarter. 
"I kind of noticed on the last drive I was carrying the ball a lot," Edwards said. "I was tired, but I knew the guys in front of me were tired too." 
His 167 yards was the best per­formance by an Irish back since Lee Becton's 177 yards against USC in 1993. 
"Our offensive line was phenomenal." Edwards continued. "The fullback dive was working, and they executed their blocks very well." 
The final drive, which culminated in a Scott Cengia 26-yard field goal, was sparked by a Lyron Cobbins interception on Notre Dame's own 2-yard line. 
"What's funny is I've been telling Lyron that I didn't think in his entire career that he'd intercept a pass," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "But everytime I've looked up lately, he's been around the ball." 
It was the straw that broke the Eagles', and coach Dan Henning's, backs. 
"We need to have our quarterback hurt the other team, not our own," 
Henning said of Hartsell's performance. Eagles' first possession of the game took following Notre Dame's cakewalk on "But he was a spark in the second half them down to Notre Dame's 20, but their first possession. But it wasn't for us." Mark Hartsell was intercepted by LaRon unexpected to Notre Dame coach Lou 
That is, until the Irish defense came Moore to erase the threat. Holtz. through once again in the clutch. The pick momentarily protected a 7-0 "I felt it was going to be a heckuva ball 
"We stopped the big plays, and we Irish lead, which they jumped out to game," he said. "We knew it would be a created big plays of our own," Cobbins, take on the first five plays of the game. hard fought football game. We knew it who now has three interceptions in the Ron Powlus, who passed only ten times would go down to the wire." past two games, said. "That's the philos-on the day, hit Edwards on a screen The Irish took a commanding lead in ophy we live by." pass, and watched him ramble 17 yards the third quarter on an Edwards plunge 
It's a kind of corollary to the "Bend for the score. from two yards out. The 13-play drive but Don't Break" philosophy, which the The Eagles rallied to tie the game in had just three passes, the most in any defense has thrived on this year. the second quarter on an Omari Walker single Irish drive all game. Recently, however, it's been working. two-yard run, which capped an epic Notre Dame finished with 318 total Opponents have had trouble scoring in drive of their own. Cengia's first field yards, including 247 on the ground. the red zone in the past few weeks. goal, a 22-yard effort, gave the lead "We don't get anything cheap," Holtz 
"Everytime they'd start to threaten, back to the Irish with just over a minute said. "Everything we get we have to we'd make the big plays," outside line-to play in the first half. They went into earn. But then again, that's not that bad backer Bert Berry said. "It was very the locker room with a 10-7 advantage, either." satisfying for us." one which they would never again lose. They earned a victory over the Eagles 
Just like their final scoring chance, the It was an unexpected chain of events Saturday. And some respect. 
r-~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~-=~~ ~~~--~~----~--~--~------~ 
Linebackers A~ .. by·different blocking schemes off soon recovered to make the plays. interception was huge. 

Running Backs 4 Secondary A 
You can't take anything away from Marc .."''""'r"'" performance by both the starters and the 
performance, which was statistically the best by an ;;•.o "=.......~..,. . They challenged blockers on runs and 
Irish back in two years. No one else needed to harra.sse:d. receivers on pass routes. And this time, 
LaRon Moore didn't nearly kill a teammate on his pick. 

Receivers B+ Special Teams A Markit on your calendar~~Charlie Stafford caught his Scott Cengia was a boost by actually hitting a couple of second pass of the season. The receivers were not . . c'llifield goals: Nothing else major really happened with called on to do much more than block, which had to b~ · these units, but that's not necessarily a bad thing. frustrating, n•s good they took it out onBCs 
D~b~£ ... ·. CoachingB Offensive Line A play calling was consistent, that's for sure. Some Hopefully this unit won't have back problems next ua::.,~o~ to Derrick Mayes could have been helpful. It week after carrying the team for four · ....·.~·""' '"'··· have given the Irish a blowout win. were bigger holes than St. Joseph•s lake v.. ·u .::Jau~IL.utl Overall Grade 3.22 Defensive Line B rmally got its much-desired victory over Grasmanis~ Wymi and Ben~ett weren't. . \...UI.tt:~K.ll.ltmight not have been dazzling, but they made play$ ~nd pressured the Q}l .•.. weather. ~-Mike Norbut 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
No gale force winds or monsoon-like rains were listed in the weather report. The final list of injuries revealed that starting quarterbacks Ron Powlus of Notre Dame and Mark Hartsell of Boston College were both fully fit. 
Perhaps it was fate, then, or the align­ment of the stars, which conspired against any hope of aerial attack in Saturday's Irish victory. 
Whatever the reason, relentless, pun­ishing ground games were all the rage as the two teams executed mirror-image game plans ad nauseam. 

Certainly the stats were telling: Boston College -37 carries for 154 yards; Notre Dame -55 rushes for 247 yards. (78% of total plays in the contest were on the ground) 
"I hate to say it, but that's the way I like to see a football team play," com­mented Irish head coach Lou Holtz on the ball control philosophy, which included a 9:41 Notre Dame drive in the fourth quarter. "I realize it's a bit old fashioned." 
Sort of like the Pony Express--old­fashioned. Just not as fast. 
But the distinction between old-fash­ioned and obsolete must also be made. Creativity was not an Irish forte, but maintaining a winning streak certainly was. 
"We don't get anything cheap -we have to work hard for everything," noted Holtz. "But maybe that's not all bad." 
It certainly wasn't for fullback Marc Edwards, who was the epitome of a workhorse en route to a career high 28 carries for 167 yards and a touchdown. 
On a day when tailbacks Randy Kinder and Autry Denson were relatively inef­fective, Edwards proved to be the differ­ence, rumbling time and again into the teeth of the Eagle defense. 
On Notre Dame's first drive it looked easy, as he picked up 4 7 yards on two successive bursts up the middle. From then on, however, each yard was a test of wills, with Edwards the victor more often than not. Never was this more apparent than in the Irish's backbreak­ing fourth quarter drive, when he car­ried the ball on 12 of the 15 plays. 
"I noticed (the fatigue) on the last drive," he admitted. "I was tired, but I knew the guys up front were tired too. We just had to keep going." 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Marc Edwards' first quarter bursts set the tone, as the Irish stuck to a simplistic, yet highly effective game plan of running inside against Boston College. 
Keep going he did, due largely to the the second consecutive week. men in the trenches. Without the threat Conservative would be an understate-of a passing game to keep the Eagles ment; fascist more accurate. guessing, Notre Dame's offensive line In the end though, results count more went mano-a-mano with the vaunted than aesthetics. When a fullback with a Eagles defensive front and drove them brushcut and the mentality of an ofTen­off the ball. sive lineman is the star, chance are it's 
"We were having too much fun pound-not going to be pretty. But it definitely ing them up front," said right tackle will be effective. Mike Doughty. "We didn't want to pass "Marc is just outstanding," said senior at all." right guard Ryan Leahy. "Whenever he 
Dougthy's wish was almost reality. runs, he's out to hit somebody, just like After being lauded for an ingenious and us." diverse game plan against USC, the Most likely most of the BC defense was offense was plain vanilla against BC. feeling Edwards' bruising style the next Powlus threw almost as many expletives morning. Both on their bodies and their as passes. Derrick Mayes was silent for egos. 
-----~-----~­

-~--------~--------------------------~~----~--~~-~---------------------­
Monday, October 30, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
Making the big plays 
Confidence in creating the turnovers rising for Irish defenders 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
It was not a thing of beauty, hut the Notre Dame defense will take it anyway they can. Short on size. depth and experi­nnce they never fail to make the game interesting. 
Defensive coordinator Bob Davie's rnueh maligned "Bad News Bears" defense does not dominatn. Yet, when the Irish nend the big play, they produee. 
"Our philosophy has been to ernatn the big play and limit the big play," Irish linebacker Lyron Cobbins said. 
While this may have been the philosophy from the start of the season, they are finally begin­ning to live it. After giving up big plays in each of the first seven games, they began to make the big plays against USC and carried that big play ability into the matehup with Boston College. 
"The confidence level was real high," Cobbins explained. "There is a snowball effect. We knew what we did against USC and applied it to this game." 
Early in the game the Irish defense did not appear any dif­ferent than in previous games. 

The Irish forced only one punt the entire game, and gave up 97 rushing yards in the first half. 
Eagle running back Justice Smith experienced much of the same success that Darnell Autry, Eddie George and the other running backs have had against the Irish. Smith, who was just returning from a knee injury, gained a solid 102 yards on 25 carries. 
Behind the running of Smith and the shaky passing of Eagle quarterbaek Mark Hartsell, the Eagles entered the red zone (Irish 20 yard line) three times, but that was where the Irish defense made its stand. 
Hartsell completed only one pass and threw two intercep­tions while Eagle running backs gained only 14 yards on seven carries. Their only score came on a Omari Walker touchdown run from the two yard line in the second quarter. 
"Last year we gave up a lot of points in the red zone," free safety LaRon Moore explained. "This year we kind of pick each other up and come together." 
"We have made a concerted effort to get better in the red zone," Bert Berry agreed. "Every time they started to threaten we would come up with the key play." 
That was exactly what they did. 
The Irish intercepted two Hartsell passes within the Irish ten yard line. 
"There is no doubt that those two interceptions were key," head coach Lou Holtz said. 

.lhTHE BOOK 
TEAM STATISTICS 
NO BC First downs 21 17 Rushes-yards 55·247 37·154 Passing yards 71 149 Comp-att-int 6·10·0 15·25·2 Return yards 77 115 Fumbles-lost 2·1 0·0 Penalties-yards 2·11 5·40
1. Nebraska (23) 8-0-0 1501 2 
Punts-ave 2-42.0 1-28.0 
3rd down conv 8·15 3·11
2. Florida St.(31) 7-0-0 1498 1 
4th down conv 1·2 2·3 
Possession time 32:17 27:43
3. Florida (2) 7-0-0 1417 3 
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
4. Ohio State(6) 8-0-0 1412 4 
RUSHING· 
Notre Dame: Edwards 28·167 1TD, Kinder 9-38, Denson 10-32, Mosley 1-7, 
5. Tennessee 7-1-0 1299 5 
Powlus 7·3. Boston College: Smith 25·97, Walker 8· 30 ITO. Watson 1·17. Hartsell 2-9. Cloud 1· 
6. Northwestern 7-1-0 1216 8 
7. Michigan 7-1-0 1180 9 
1. 
8. Notre Dame 7-2-0 1042 12 
9. Kansas State 7-1-0 1038 14 
• SCORING SUMMARY 10. Colorado 6-2-0 860 7 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 F
11. Kansas 7-1-0 833 6 
Notre Dame 7 3 7 3 20 
Boston College 0 7 3 0 10
12. Penn State 6-2-0 828 16 
13. Texas 5-1-1 764 15 
SCORING SUMMARY 
14. Southern Cal 6-1-1 759 13 
FIRST QUARTER 
15. Washington 5-2-1 554 17 
Notre Dame 7, Boston 
16. Alabama 6-2-0 544 18 
College 0 Edwards 17 pass from Powlus
17. Texas A&M 5-2-0 512 19 
(Cengia kick) at 12:46 (5 plays, 70 yards, 2:14 elapsed). Key Play:
18. Arkansas 6-2-0 487 
Edwards started off the drive with 
19. Oregon 6-2-0 457 10 
carries of 20 and 27 yards. 
20. Syracuse 6-1-0 354 21 
SECOND QUARTER 
21. Auburn 5-3-0 330 11 
Notre Dame 7, Boston 
22. UCLA 6-2-0 328 24 
College 7 Walker 2 run (McGuire kick) at
23. Texas Tech 5-2-0 307 22 
11:16 (16 plays, 77 yards, 7:53). Key Play: Watson gained 17 on
24. Virginia 6-3-0 305 20 
a reverse to the Irish 16. 
25. Oklahoma 5-2-1 172 23 

Notre Dame 10, Boston College 7 
Cengia 22 FG at 1:21 (11 plays, 46 yards, 4:41 ). Key Play: Edwards ran up the middle for 14 

The Observer/Rob Finch\ LaRon Moore registered seven tackles and a crucial interception of a Mark Hartsell pass inside the Irish ten yard line. 
Cobbins intercepted his third pass in two games in the fourth quarter. That interception gave Cobbins as many receptions as wide receiver Derrick Mayes in that two game span. 
If the Eagles had been able to score on that drive the score would have been tied at 17 with less than a quarter to play. 
"We were working on drop­ping the linebacker back into zone and man coverage," Holtz said of Cobbins interception. "I told him a couple weeks ago that I thought he may never get an interception. He had not even intercepted a pass in prac­tice." 
Moore snagged the other interception on the Eagles' first drive of the game. With the Irish up 7-0 and the Eagles on the Irish 20, Hartsell tried to force the ball to his crossing wide out, but Moore stepped in front of the receiver to stall the Eagles' drive. 
"We were playing zone and they tried to loop the pass in," Moore said. "I just put my hands up and got the intercep­tion." 
The defense may not make it look pretty, but they will take it any way they can. 

PASSING· 
Notre Dame: Powlus 6·10·0·71 no. 
Boston College: Hartsell15·25·2·149. 
RECEIVING-
Notre Dame: Stalford 1·22, Edwards 1· 17 no. Mayes 1·16, Chryplewicz 1-16, Kinder 1-4, Farmer 1-(minus 4). 
Boston College: Everson 3-38, Watson 3·21, Harding 2·26, Walker 2·15, Pollack 2· 13, Dragos 2·12, Grice 1·24. 
TACKLES-
Notre Dame: Magee 11, Berry 9, Moore 7 (1 int). Wooden 7, Wynn 6 (1 sack), Tatum 5, Grasmanis 4, Cobbins 3 (1 int). Minor 3, Rossum 3, Thome 2, Monahan 2, Bennett 2, Carretta 1, Wagasy 1. 
Boston College: Half 11 (1 sack). Monk 9, Blount 8 (1 lum rec), Cliflord 7, Wiggins 7, Morabito 6 (1 sack), Porter 5, Bembry 5, Gianacakos 4, Tolelree 2, Speight 2, Wright 
1. Gustin 1, English 1, Smith 1. Pollack 1. 
to put the Irish at the BC 12. 
THIRD QUARTER 
Notre Dame 17, Boston College 7 
Edwards 2 run (Cengia kick) at 5:10 (13 plays, 68 yards, 5:19). Key Play: Powlus scrambled and found Mayes for 16 yards and a 1st down at the Eagle 17. 
Notre Dame 17, Boston College 10 
McGuire 41 FG at 1 :34 (8 plays, 62 yards, 3:36). Key Play: Hartsell hil Grice for 24 yards to the ND 31. 
FOURTH QUARTER 
Notre Dame 20, Boston College 10 
Cengia 26 FG al2:42 (18 plays, 83 yards, 9:41). Key Play: Edwards carried the ball 7 straight times, picking up first downs and milking time off the clock. 
Sey01our 
continued from page 1 
equality with college football's preeminent pro­gram. 
And after all, that is what every Irish fan really wanted. A thrashing. Something more than the newly-founded Ireland Trophy to seal the zeal in the rivalry. 
This is a rivalry that so far has had all the right qualities. The Catholic connection. The faked punt and 'Overrated' cheer in 1992. The National Championship denied. The Irish nadir last year. Story lines were easier to pick out than fake Boston accents. 
Then came the present. The Irish hurdled another obstacle in their quest for a big-time bowl and left happy. The Eagles played like a team better than their 2-6 record and left rela­tively happy. 
What good is a rivalry where both sides are simultaneously happy? 
Something went wrong on Saturday. It was a game, but it was not an epic. 
I dare you to pick a memorable moment. In 1992 the onslaught of points told the story. In 1993 David Gordon's wobbly kick and the prone Irish players in the aftermath are forever ingrained. Last year the Boston College students hanging from the goalposts tormented Irish viewers. 
What then, of this victory? Lyron Cobbins' interception? Edwards rambling into a mass of humanity? Powlus drilling the ball at a ref after being sacked? 
In truth, Notre Dame did little to perpetuate the string of greatness that had been the hall­mark of' the series to date. The Eagles made it clear that they were only able to scrap, claw and hope for the best. The Irish survived, but hardly conquered. 
Afterwards some tried to compare the series to other storied Irish rivalries. But great players are made in great rivalries. Rocket Ismael and Kevin McDougal defined themselves against Michigan. Tony Rice and a host of others can point to the USC game. 
Derrick Mayes has been a trooper, but needed to step from the shadows. Powlus' legend could have gained some substance. Edwards is more guts than glory. 
A win is a win, no one will deny that. It might have been some consolation. But a catharsis it was not. 

~--------------~~------~-------------------------------~=---------~------------------~-­
page4 Monday, October 30, 1995 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 





By MIKE NORBUT Sporrs Ediror 
With his third interception in the last two games, inside linebacker Lyron Cobbins is now tied for the team lead with Shawn Wooden. 
Could Derrick Mayes be next? 
Cobbins has caught as many passes in the past two weeks as Notre Dame's premier receiver, who had just one catch against Boston College Saturday. 
"All I know is his catches just count as receptions." Cobbins said with a smile. "Mine count as turnovers." 
While Mayes hasn't caught too many passes, he has been instru­mental in Notre Dame's dominant running game. 
"Derrick has been playing very unselfishly. blocking for the backs downfield," fullback Marc Edwards said. "I think he'd savor a win more than a couple of touchdown catches." 
Mayes would. but that might not discount from the fact that some members of the defense may let him hear about Cobbins' skills. 
But can he catch a bomb? "I might, you never know," he said. "I wouldn't mind playing offense." 
Special Changes: The most notice­able change for the Irish Saturday was the replacement of freshman kicker Kevin Kopka with sophomore Scott Cengia, who hit two extra points and two field goals from dis­tances of 22 and 26 yards. Kopka was demoted to just kickoff duties. 
"For me, it's good to be a part of this win," Cengia said. "I just put my faith in God and let things take its toll." 
Cengia, who had confidence prob­
lems last year. can relate to what 
Kopka has been going through in 


recent weeks. 
''I'm trying to help him out with that," he said. "Hopefully. he can come around and we'll be a big asset to this team." 
Other changes on the special teams included Allen Rossum on kickoff returns and Mayes returning punts. 
Excuses, Excuses: Boston College coach Dan Henning was baffied and a bit miffed with the playing situation at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. 
"It's about as dark in here as it was on the field," he said of the press tent, which would have been pitch black if not for a few spotlights shin­ing on the speaker's podium. 
Another element that the Eagles coach couldn't quite get was the length of time involved in each televi­sion timeout. 
"It was like an eternity every time­out," Henning continued. "I've never seen longer timeouts in a game before in my life. I didn't understand it at all." 
While Saturday's game was fin­ished in three hours, Notre Dame games televised on NBC usually last about half an hour longer. 
It's a Big Game: Parallel answers came from opposite locker rooms when players and coaches were asked about the growing rivalry between the Irish and Eagles. 
"I think our players know how big of a game this is becoming," Henning said. "Hopefully, they'll have this atti­tude through the next century, which is how long our series lasts." 
"I want this to be a friendly rival­ry," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "Miami was not a healthy rivalry. This should be." 
Maybe the Ireland Trophy is the answer. 

ACCE-NT 
Monday, October 30, 1995 page 9 
Building homes and friendships 
cSor/n Jfaffres/denls come loge/her log/ue andlearn among Ooui£7Jafiola gnd/ans 
By DAN CICHALSKI 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Wi
ile some Domers pent fall break relax­ng at home or visiting friends at other colleges, other members of the Notre Dame community headed down to Appalachia or out to South Dakota on similar "home improvement" projects. Dan Koth of Sorin Hall led one such crnw out to the Crow Creek Indian Heservation in Fort Thompson, South Dakota. EighttHHl Sorin men and their rnctor, Father Steve Newton, spnnt tlw week hnlping to build two houses on the reservation for a couple of appreciative families. 
Sueh trips have been common for Sorin residents the last few years. Koth, a junior from the Milwaukee suburb of Greendale, Wiseonsin, has par­tieipated in these service pro­jects the last three years but Father Newton was able to join them for the first time this fall. The previous two trips went to Appalachia and Atlanta. 
With the help of Father Newton and Jay Brandenberger at the Center for Social Concerns, Koth organized this trip by getting in touch with Ed Whiting at the Crow Creek Reservation. Father Newton helped with such details as arranging for the rental of transportation while Brandenberger served as a link to the earlier trips and also suggested this year's location. "He gave me an idea of what to look for and was really anxious to hear how the experience on the reservation went," said Koth. 
The group left Notre Dame at midnight on October 13, driving the fourteen hours to Ft. Thompson in rental cars. For a week, the men from Sorin worked with Whiting and other residents during the day and took advantage of the new sur­roundings at night. "It was amazing to see the difference in 

Photo courtesy Dan Koth 

A handful of Notre Dame students spent fall break building houseswith South Dakota's Lakota Indians. 
lifestyles," Koth recalls. "They are much more laid-back. Work begins when everyone gets there and we would finish for the day when we decided that we had worked enough." 
One project involved rebuild­ing an old trailer into a perma­
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

The new walls and floors of this former trailer were built with the he ping hands of the men of Sorin Hall. 
nent home. After tearing down the original walls and basically disassembling the trailer, the workers built it up again, adding the frames for the new walls. 
At the other site, the foimda­tion for the home was already 
~ p~ce. Koth and h~ group laid the floor, added the front wall, and began construction on the front deck. "We gained a lot from helping build these homes. We learned so much about their background and they showed their appreciation as well," Koth said. 
Ft. Thomas is one of the poor­est Indian areas in the vicinity. Many of the homes are prod­ucts of Habitat for Humanity, as were these that the men from Sorin helped build. Most of the residents make their living by raising cattle or crops. 
At night, when the day's work was complete, the contingent took in some of the surround­ings. One evening trip to South Dakota's capital, Pierre, approximately an hour north of the reservation, included stops at a museum and the capital building. On the final night, they were treated to a pow­wow and dinner prepared by their hosts. A more real taste for the Indians' culture came out in their dances and meal of Indian tacos-which are similar to the traditional Mexican tacos, but the ingredients are placed on top of a piece of thick bread and eaten with utensils. 
A lot of time was left open to talk with the Lakota Indians as 
well. "It was interesting because a lot of younger chil­dren are interested in keeping their culture alive. It's great to see kids at that age trying to hold on to their culture. Many today tend to stray from it." Part of this Lakota culture also involves Catholicism-about half of the Indians are Catholic, according to Koth, and many are quite familiar with Notre Dame; some of the children and their parents hope that one day they can attend this university. 
For Koth and the others, this was another memorable Notre Dame experience. They gained satisfaction in helping to build these homes, saw wild buffalo and antelope graze, and spent a week on the land known to many from its appearance in "Dances With Wolves." "You don't know what you're missing out on until you go on some­thing like this," said Koth. "Once you go, you realize what an experience it is." 

• DAYS OF OUR LIVES UPDATE 
The hourglass fills: The past two weeks of 'Days' 
By CHRISTINA FTICSAR and ERIN KELSEY 
Accent "l>ays ofOur Lives" Correspondents 
W
e're hack. everyone. Don't worry, though ... we faithfully watehed "Days" during break and didn't miss a beat of it. 
First of all. Carrie and Austin, while at a eonference at the Green Mountain Inn, "daneed" to the tune of "Heunited" hy l'eaehns and Herb, but Lucas inter­ruptnd with the news that crazy Sami was on her way up. This announce­nwnt was disturbing to Carrie and Austin because it was pouring and windy outside. And let's face it: Sami's pregnant, psycho, and a terrible driver. Not a good mixture, especially for someone who crashed the last time she "borrowed" someonn's car. They found her uneonscious and in a ditch but Sarni didn't lose the baby. However, Carrie now refuses to get back together with Austin since she promised God that if he allowed the baby to live, she would give up Austin forever. Whatever, Carrie, it's your wasted life. 
Lexy began her quest to find her real parents while Celeste. successful so far. boggled all of her attempts to do so. However, she did get an anonymous phone call from her parents' former lawyer, Mr. Murchinson, whom Celeste threatened and therefore kept quiet when Lexy and Abe visited him in per­son. Mr. Murchinson, in his phone call, told her to visit the public records and get information there. She did, and found Celeste there as well. Surprise, surprise, Lexy! 
Bo and Hope are assigned to a drug case involving a man named Jude St. Clair and, unbeknownst to them, Peter too. Jude owns a bar/nightclub where I lope now has a job and where Bo is a "regular" customer. They clash often over whether or not the job is becoming too dangerous and they act a lot like children when arguing. (It's gotten old real fast.) Jude asked Hope to do a striptease after-hours for his special customers. and she agreed. She started the very alluring dance, ran off stage, and ran back on again; then Bo started a fight so she wouldn't have to contin­ue. We just want to know one thing: Who are these elusive special cus­tomers? Are they retarded or rich? 
Tony began his quest to frame John for his own murder by getting John angry at him for paying for the decora­tions for Belle's birthday, thereby establishing a motive for John. Getting Father Francis, the only person besides Tony's chauffeur who knows about his plan, out of the way is step #2. As Tony was about to inject Father Francis with poison, the priest had a heart attack. In the hospital. he attempted to tell John what Tony was going to do to him. 
He failed, although John is growing increasingly suspicious of Tony, much to Kristen's dismay. While Father Francis was falling asleep, his hand opened and revealed a culT link. Tony was missing a cuff link. We wonder whose cuff link it is? If you know, please give us a ring. (Just to let you know, if anyone calls us, we'll mock you. We like to mock people.) 
To tie up some loose ends, Jack is still in .love with Jennifer. Sarah hitched a ride to Salem and sneaked into Jack and Jennifer's house. Jennifer got angry when she found out Sarah was there, but things were cleared up by Friday. So, don't worry, all you people who want Jack and Jennifer to get back together. Oh, and they took Abby out too. You know it was a crazy week when Abby got attention. And one piece of advice: Tony, can you breathe just a little deeper? 
-· 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 30, 1995 
•run. 

Richter shines as Rangers outlast Maple Leafs 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Goaltender Mike Richter hasn't been at his best in Madison Square Garden this season. 
So Sunday night's 3-2 victory for the New York Rangers over the Toronto Maple Leafs felt somewhat like a comeback at home. 
"I was pleased with the way it went," Richter said after mak­ing 34 saves, including a game­saver on a breakaway by Doug Gilmour in the second period. 
"I knew I had to be more sta­ble, not overplay the puck and be more patient. That was real­ly important tonight." 
Richter struggled earlier this season at the Garden while los­ing two of three games. Except for a 2-0 shutout in Toronto, he had generally not been up to the form that took the Rangers to the Stanley Cup in 1994. 
In his last home game, Richter had been booed by the fans. "I've gotten a lot of sug­gestions from the fans (about 
his early season slump), some of which I can't repeat. They've got a right to boo. They just want us to win." 
Normally the Rangers' No. 1 goaltender, Richter had given way to backup Glenn Healy in four of the previous five games. In three home games with Richter in goal, the Rangers had been outscored 15-13. 
Rangers captain Mark Messier said criticism of Richter didn't mean anything to the team. 
"Mike doesn't have any critics in the dressing room," Messier said. "He has our full confi­dence. You know, we played a better game in front of him to­day. He made some big saves, which is always a difference in a goalie." 
Both of the Maple Leafs' goals were scored on the power play, by Mike Gartner. Richter's best stop of the night came when he thwarted Gilmour with a little more than three minutes left in the second period. Then with 
1:18 left, Richter held off Gart­ner as he tried to jam the puck into the net from outside the crease. In the third period, Richter faced 15 shots and al­lowed only one goal. 
"He went up against a pretty good guy in the second period," Rangers forward Ray Ferraro said of Richter's save on Gilmour's breakaway. "Ricky snuffed him out. That play turned the game around." 
Luc Robi'taille, Adam Graves and Ferraro scored for the Rangers, who completed a two­game series sweep of the Maple Leafs. The Maple Leafs, who tied Los Angeles 2-2 Saturday night, were playing their third game in four nights. 
"We wanted to play a simple game, but we put ourselves behind the eight-ball early," Gartner said. "We played 55 minutes of pretty good hockey after that. We threw everything we could at the net, but we were just missing." 
Robitaille gave the Rangers a 1-0 lead with a rebound goal at 
1:08 of the first period. The Maple Leafs tied it at 1:08 of the second when Gartner scored from outside the crease on a shot that first hit the post and then slid under Richter. 
The Rangers then got a power-play goal when Graves beat Damien Rhodes from the slot at 3:53. New York made it 3-1 when Ferraro scored on a backhander at 8:49 after skat­ing down the left side. 
Gartner, a former Ranger who had received mild applause after scoring his first goal. scored at 5:19 of the third to cut New York's lead to 3-2. Dave Andreychuck threw a cross-ice pass that Gartner de­flected into the net. 
Blackhawks 6, Sabres 3 
Jeremy Roenick scored a shorthanded goal with less than a second left in the second pe­riod Sunday night, igniting the Chicago Blackhawks to a 6-3 victory over the Buffalo Sabres. It was 1-1 and Brent Grieve was in the penalty box when the Blackhawks gained control 
in Buffalo ice. Chris Chelios took a shot from the point and Roenick, jostling with Doug Bodger for position in front of the net, deflected the puck past Andrei Trefilov with 0.8 on the clock. 
Chicago then got goals from Grieve, Jim Cummins, Gary Suter and Tony Amonte in a wide-open third period. Garry Galley and Jason Dawe scored for the Sabres in the period, Dawe pulling Buffalo to 4-3 with 3:03 to play, but Suter beat Trefilov 18 seconds later on a slap shot from beyond the blue line. 
Jeff Hackett, playing for injured Blackhawks goalie Ed Belfour. made 23 saves. Hackett had been benched mid­way through Saturday's loss at Montreal after allowing five goals on 16 shots. 
Trefilov made 29 saves in his Buffalo debut but the Sabres still ended their road trip with a third straight loss. Dominik Hasek had played every minute of the team's first nine games. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
"Neither a borrower or a lender be ... " Buy your own ticket to see National Shakespeare Company's HAMLET-Nov. 3, 8 p.m. WA Hall Sponsored by SUB Cultural Arts. 
Mark's Towing Roadside Service,Tire Changing, Jumpstarts,Many Services .. We Accept Checks & Charge Student & Senior Discounts 
* 
Damage Free Towing 

* 
24 Hours * Motor Club Servicer Ph#(219)271-2382 


Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/1511-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9 PM THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S. OF 1 00 CTR 255-0458 NEED ID 

ILOST & FOUND I 
*****LOST **** 
SMALL GOLD HOOP 
EARRING 
CALL3709 
WANTED 
* * * FREE TRIPS & CASH * * * Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAKI 
TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­
Make up to $25-45/hr. teaching 
basic conversational English in 
Japan. Taiwan, or S. Korea. No 
teaching background or Asian lan­
guages required. For information 
call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transporation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (206)545-4155 extA55842 

Roomate needed for 2nd sem. Male Grad. stu. pre!. Nice 2br apt. near campus $280/mo. 277-3107 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55842 
Need ride 2 Halloween PHISH show. X4880 
HELP WANTED addressing envelopes. Work at your residence in your spare time. $250+/week possible! (310)804-5587 24 hrs. 
need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­4569monique 
Babysitter -ECDC student pref­ered. $5.00 per hour. About 6-8 hr. per week. Call Lea 272-5029. 
Graduated Student needs 2 GAs for parents for NAVY Please call Brad at 4-5118. Price negotiable. 
Tickets for MONET exhibit 
for Nov. 3 or Nov. 5. Please call Brad at 634-5118. Negotiable. 
Seeking RIDER(S) to FLORIDA 
Dec 14 return Jan 13. Call Dyan 4-0979 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 
232-2595 
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 8­9487 
LAKE MICHIGAN LAKEFRONT 
RENTAL ON SILVER BEACH, ST. JOSEPH, MI. NEWLY RENOVAT­
ED 2 BR HOUSE BEAUTIFUL SUNSETS-1/2 HR FROM SO. 
BEND, CABLE TV, FULLY 
EQUIPPED, SLEEPS 6 TO 8. 
GREAT FOR HOME GAMES OR 
ALUMNI FUNCTIONS. (708)478­
0736 
3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE 
WALK TO NO GOOD AREA 
2773097 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 
PM & ASK FOR SANDY. 
Need 1 roommate now & 1 more next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273­2366 
BED & BREAKFAST Lovely bdrm for 2 w/private bath. For ND/SMC parents & friends. Navy weekend. 277-6323. 
Two bedroom apartment for rent. 
1.2 miles from Hesburgh Library. Very safe area. Possibility of keep­ing horse or pet. 1-511 8 or 277­5828. 
FOR SALE 
NO Ski Team T-Shirtsl 
***""************** Really cool and only $10! Call Potter @ 232-2955 todaylll Great for you, your roomie, or Christmas presents! 
ALPINE CAR CD PLAYER NEW $550 SELL $250 CALL BRENT 273-6183 
EXERCISE BIKE $65*LG XMAS TREE, ARTIFICL, FLOCKD $55 277.7263mess. 
EXPECTING? Beautiful, classic, white crib and changing table for sale. Includes mattress, sheets, bumper pad, and ruff. Two years old and in excellent condition. $250. Call631-6479. 
HP Laser Jet Series II printer. The Cadillac of printers.277-2560. 
Elect guitar perfect cond $225 obo amp free 273-5380 
MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. Complete system including printer only $499. Call Chris at 1-800-665­4392 ext. 9537 
SENIOR IS GRADUATING For Sale: Furniture & Appliances Call: 271-8262 Pedro 
TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061,24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. BUY'SELL *TRADE (219) 232-0058-24 HAS. 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
Me nEad TiKits 2 Navy Call Sean x2153 
I need tickets to BC and Navy. Please call Bryan at 272-4249 Need Navy tix. 282-1638 
Need two Navy Tickets Call Lara at x4416 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Paul collect at (216) 974-7142. 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S Brian@ X4245 
I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY. PLEASE CALL MEGAN X2638. 
Let's Deal! I need two tickets for the Navy game, GAs preferably. Call Jen at x4965. 
NEED 2 Navy GA's!! call Martha at X4092 
Need 1 Navy Ticket for bro PLEASE Call Tim 273-4389 
NEED NAVY TIXI 
AMY 616-473-2636 
NAVY GA's 4 Sale Call634-1534 
Navy. Brian. x 1716 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA) call dan at 273-6183 if you can help out. thanx. TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX 
I need 2 Navy GAs. 
Call Frank x3389 
I need 1 Navy GA. 
Call Jeff x0669 
FOR SALE N.D. G A s call271-9412 
I NEED USC, BC & NAVY 
GA'S.272-6306 
Need Navy GAs. 
Call Kevin @273-2938 
Wanted: 4 Football Tickets for 
Boston College Game. Call Collect 
913-233-5826 
HELP! Desperately seeking 2 GA's for Navy. Call Sarah'@ 273-6875. 
Need 1 Stud Navy Ticket Call Patty @ 4015 
I need 2 GA's and 2 stud tix for 
Navy call X11 03 ask for Dave H 
I'm selling 2 Navy GA's. 
Call4-2514 
I NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS! I Call JILL x2272 
NEED 2 NAVY GA's! Please call 
Brigid x3764 
NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY!!! 
CALL CHRIS X-1953 I HAVE 2 NAVY GA'S call4144 w/best offer by lues. 
NEED 1 NAVY TIC. CALLX3832 
I NEED NAVY Tickets badly. 
Both GA's and Student... Please leave a message on my machine .... 287-8696 -Bryan 
PERSONAL 
Listen Michael! Girls can have a larger than flat chest, make more money than you and be Asian at the same time. 
NOT GOING TO NAVY? Well, the American Cancer Society needs you to donate your ticket lor the Pediatric Cancer Patients of Memorial Hospital. Please drop off your ticket book by Tues. (10/31) at the CSC. Any questions? Call Nicole@ 4-1318. 
Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING BREAK '96 Form a group of 15 and travel FREE + earn $$$ CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, CARNIVAL CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ed. (800)574-7577 ext. 302 
ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN HEARING MORE?? Warm, professional Indiana couple, lots of experience with children. would love to talk to you about what we can offer your precious child. Stability, nurturing, love of learning, travel, lots of extended family, and full-time mom are just some of the things that your child would experi­ence in our home. Interested in hearing more? CALL US (day or night). Expenses paid. Theresa & Lee 1-800-600-8482. 
GHOSTS!IGHOSTS!!GHOSTS!! 
Notre DAme Student Players is sponsoring ghost stories from 
11 :00-12:30 on Halloween night. Washington Hall is the place. 
Come find out about ghosts in that 
building, and others too. 
Admission $1.00 
Scare you there. 
GHOSTSIIGHOSTS!!GHOSTS!! 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your convenience!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 
I NEED A RIDE TO ST.. LOUIS FOR THANKSGIVING PREFERABLY MON NIGHT. CALL CAROLINE 284-4349 
AITENTION SMC sophomores­Want a dance next semester? Come to Haggar Parlor Monday, Oct. 30, 9:30-10:30pm for an open forum. Bring suggestions * * * * SMC Sophomores* * • 
$5.50 HAIRCUT VITO'S BARBER SHOP 1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST 233-4767 
A HELL OF A WEEKEND thurs-a fight and a run. "why are you standing 
on the table?" fri-fazolli's, the sliches. "who's that?" 
take the party to the bar. the boston college guys, 
mosh fest '95 sat-the hot chocolate (hot?), shot­gun races, 
the hole, jan's fall, el capitan. more tailgating, the indian's loss, sweeney's jeans, the car episode, and a belated arrival to mark's street. 
WHAT A WEEKEND 
I'm thinkin' "I can't get to the copier. What do I do? What do I do?" "That can't be good for the paper tray" 
THANKS TO STEVE CASSIDY AND BAY STATE CHOWDA COM­PANY. IT WAS GOOD STUFF. 
Five, count 'em, five days till the BIG 21! Are you getting excited, Alex? 
wednesday is all saints' day, so cel­ebrate the feast day of your favorite saints, like blaise and coolio. 
bricks aren't bad ... just put them in the fridge ... someone will drink them 


Monday, October 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Indians build foundation for next year 
Get the Right Start 
Call 

1-800-4 ffiM LOAN 
.-:.::···
(I·800-442-6562) 
d

For Special 
IBM PCs Offer the Perfect Combination 
,,, F' . ­
. 
of Prier, Conwnirnre and Performanc•t• 
==-=-:-=® 

•NFL 
Marino returns for victory, Deion makes Cowboy debut 
Associated Press The Bills went more than 15 minutes without a first down in 
MIAMI 
the first half, but trailed only 6­With Dan Marino back in the 3 thanks to Steve Christie's 32­
lineup, the Miami Dolphins in­yard field goal. 
stead used their running game 
Christie hit another 32­
and defense to beat the Buffalo 
yarder following a 67-yard
Bills. 
Buffalo drive at the start of the 
Bernie Parmalee and Terry second half. 
Kirby scored on acrobatic runs Miami quickly regained the and Miami clamped down on lead for good. Marino hit Kirby
Buffalo's injury-depleted with a 31-yard pass to the offense for a 23-6 victory 
Buffalo 20, and on the next Sunday. 
play, Parmalee broke into the By beating Buffalo for only open, headed for the corner of the second time in 10 games at the end zone and went flying
Joe Robbie Stadium, the 
over the pylon to score. 
Dolphins broke a three-game 
Kirby scored early in the 
losing streak and moved into a fourth quarter to cap a 61-yardtie with the Bills and the drive. 
Indianapolis Colts atop the AFC 
East. All three teams are 5-3. 
Cowboys 28, Falcons 13 
Marino, sidelined the past two games by hip and knee 
Deion Sanders returned toinjuries, completed 20 of 35 "his house" Sunday and saw 
passes for 232 yards with no 
teammates Troy Aikman,
touchdowns. 
Michael Irvin and Emmitt
His biggest plays against the Smith lay claim to the GeorgiaAFC's best defense were a pair Dome's deed. 
of handoffs. Parmalee scored While Deion had a quiet day on a 20-yard run in the third at cornerback and caught one quarter to break a 6-6 tie, and 6-yard pass, Aikman, Irvin andKirby added an 11-yard touch­Smith led the Cowboys to threedown dash. 
touchdowns in a span of nineBoth runners dived over the minutes as they overcame an
goal line to score. Parmalee early 10-0 deficit to beat
rushed for 83 yards and Kirby Atlanta 28-13. 
60. 
Sanders' debut with Dallas With Thurman Thomas and 
hardly approached his first trip Andre Reed sidelined by ham­back to his old football homestring injuries, the Bills offense with San Francisco last year.
sputtered. Eight of their 11 
On that day, he managed to getpossessions failed to produce a into a fight with Andre Risonfirst down. 
and return an interception 93 yards for a touchdown.
Thomas' replacement, rookie Afterward, he declared: "ThisDarick Holmes, rushed for just is my house. I built this house." 
24 yards in 12 carries. 
But if Sanders built it,
Buffalo assistant head coach Aikman, Smith and Irvin actedElijah Pitts fell to 0-2 filling in Sunday like they own it.
for head coach Marv Levy, who Aikman was 19 of 25 for 198 is recovering from surgery for 
yards and two touchdowns, 
· prostate cancer. 
including a 43-yarder to Irvin.
Pete Stoyanovich broke Garo Aikman also had a streak ofYepremian's Miami record for 185 passes without an inter­career field goals, hitting kicks ception broken by D.J. Johnsonof 24 and 33 yards in the first in the fourth quarter.
half for a total of 166. 
Irvin caught 10 passes for 
Stoyanovich added a 22-yarder 135 yards and Smith ran forin the fourth period. 
167 yards on 26 carries,
Stoyanovich's first kick fol­including a 1-yard TO run, his 
lowed a 74-yard drive that 
14th score in eight games thisincluded three third-down con­season. 
versions. 


By CHUCK MELVIN 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Forty-one years after their last World Series, the Cleveland Indians finally made it back to the postseason. And unless somnone else in the AL Central suddenly improves by 30 games, they'll be there again soon. 
The beauty of the Indians' '95 season wasn't just the result. It was the foundation upon which it was built. 
"We don't have a whole lot to do," general manager John llart said. "The nucleus of this club is coming back. We won 100 games. I'm not going to try to re-invent the wheel." 

To sum up: Before losing the World Series to Atlanta in six games, the Indians led the majors in hitting with a .291 average, in scoring with 840 runs, in horne runs with a team-record 207 and in victo­ries with 100. 
They became the first AL team since Baltimore in 1971 to lead the league in both batting average and ERA. They also had the best bullpen in the league. 
It all added up to a record 30­game margin over second-place Kansas City, and although the record is certainly less mean­ingful in light of the realign­ment of the league into three divisions, it means the Royals -and the rest of the division 
orlds 
-have a long way to go to catch Cleveland. 
The Indians' everyday lineup is virtually set for 1996, the only exception being designated hitter Eddie Murray, whose two-year commitment to Cleveland has ended. Though he hit .323 with 21 homers and 82 RBis in 113 games this year, Murray, now eligible for free agency, will be 40 next season. 
Yet it was the signing of Murray before the '94 season that solidified Cleveland's line­up, giving manager Mike Hargrove someone in the fifth spot in the order to make it more difficult for opponents to pitch around Albert Belle. Belle in 1995 became the first player ever to hit 50 homers and 50 doubles in the same season. 
A look at the contractual sta­tus of the lineup shows how well Hart's plan of locking up his players with multiyear deals has worked. The number in parentheses is the option year of each player's contract: 
Center fielder Kenny Lofton (1997); shortstop Omar Vizquel (1996); second baseman Carlos Baerga (1999); left fielder Albert Belle (1996); DI-1 Eddie Murray (free agent); third base­man Jim Thome (1998); right fielder Manny Ramirez (not yet eligible for free agency); first baseman Paul Sorrento (1996), and catcher Sandy Alomar (1998). 
"We have grown this club," Hart said. "I think we have another window (of opportuni­ty) next year." 
-------------------------------------" 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 30, 1995 
• SWIMMING • NEGRO LEAGUE 
Irish dominate field at ND Relays 75th anniversary met 

By BRIDGET CASEY Spons Writer 
with mixed emotions 
By CRAIG HORST reaching the majors with theIf Saturday's football game 

Associated Press New York Giants. "The playingagainst BC was indeed a "holy 

conditions were better. The

war", Notre Dame Relays on 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
travel was easier. If I would

Friday afternoon was a defmite Their brand of baseball was have known that, I would havedemonstration in dominance by as good as the white man's and
the Irish swimmers. While no tried to get there faster." 
they played to packed houses

true Irish fan could breathe a O'Neil has become the chief 
wherever they went. 

clear sigh of relief until the gold­spokesman in the attempt to 
They could have been major

en helmets were raised fol­maintain the history of the 
leaguers but for the color of

lowing the Irish victory on three decades in which black Saturday, from start to finish, their skin. players barnstormed the coun­Notre Dame swimming proved They all respect Jackie 
try as the games were a major

to BC and the rest of the field Robinson for his mental tough­event in the black community. 
that Rolfs Aquatic Center is not ness in taking the plunge, but
with 218 points to runner up to BC's Scott Cornick(1:02.42) Negro League baseball began
a place that welcomes upsets. in their hearts, the old Negro
BC's 170. In all but three clocking a fast time of 1:02.36. to fade after Robinson signed"The Relay meet was a fun Leaguers know that they could
events, the women were victori­On the women's side, a bal­with Branch Rickey and theway to get some races under have played with the best of
ous, finishing second by less anced attack demonstrating the Brooklyn Dodgers in 1947 toour belts. The unique format 
allowed us to swim events we than one second to Northern solid depth of the team secured them. break the color barrier for the 
"Why do they say Josh Gibson 

would not normally participate Michigan in the 400 Freestyle wins over Nothern Michigan and best players, and the last 
Relay and the 200 Medley, and a strong BC team in a three way is the black man's Babe Ruth?" 
in" commented Irish Captain Joy games were played during the 
second also to BC in 500 Free dual meet. · Josh Gibson Jr. said. "Why
Michnowicz. early '60s. 
"The wins were definitely a relay. Junior Erin Brooks was a dou­don't they say Babe Ruth is the The Negro Leagues BaseballSaturday's dual meet versus ble winner for the Irish captur­
team effort, everyone had a white man's Josh Gibson?" Museum is housed at 18th and hand in winning both the relay BC again showcased the talent ing the 100 (59.34) and 200 Segregation and prejudice Vine, only a few blocks from
and depth of the men's squad as yard backstrokes (2:07.55),
meet and the dual meets on were downplayed as about 200 where Rube Foster engineeredthe men won all but one race. while senior Liane Gallagher
Saturday. It was a great way for of the approximate 270 sur­
the formation of the NegroFreshman Scott Zumbach won both the one and three

us to open competition in the Big viving Negro Leaguers gath­
National League in October

(1:46.44) led the Irish with three meter diving by nearly fifteen
East and a preview of the type of ered for the first time to cele­
wins outtouching Irish senior points in each event. 1920 and from where thecompetition we will be facing brate the 75th anniversary of
Dave Doherty (1 :4 7.11), fellow Sophomores Lauren Relay and Monarchs won the first Negrothroughout the season", accord­
the formation of the Negro

underclassmen Wes Richardson Shelley Hotchkiss and Freshman League World Series in 1924. 
ing to Irish co-captain Anna 
(1 :50.47) and sophomore John Anne Iacobucci also emerged National League. But the The street corner, now run­Cooper. 
Kennedy (1:51.36), for a sweep victorious for the Irish with knowledge of what they had down, was the place to be
The relay meet on Friday 
of the 200 Freestyle. Zumbach Relay taking a close race in the been denied was still there. 
showcased the balance and when Kansas City and the 
also notched wins in the 500 200 Butterfly in 2:07.84. "I am so glad that so many
depth of both the men and wom­Negro Leagues were in their 
Freestyle (4:49.58) and the 200 Hotchkiss emerged victorious in came to honor these guys who
en's teams with events in all heyday. 
strokes and a variety of dis­Individual Medley (1:59.17) the 500 Freestyle (5:06.43) and built that bridge against that "I once had an uncle fromleading Irish sweeps in both Iacobucci led the underclassmen 
tances. The men captured great chasm of prejudice and Arkansas who was coming up
events. with her first-place fmish in the 
twenty-four of twenty-five segregation," said Buck O'Neil, to Kansas City and didn't have
In other results, senior Rob 200 Individual Medley (2:11.27). 
events with the only blemish the power-hitting first baseman 
an address for his brother,"

Flynn notched two wins for the Following a successful week­
occuring in a tight race in the who led the dominant Kansas
Irish in the 100 and 200 back­end of competition, the Irish said Byron Johnson, who200 Medley Relay with the Irish City Monarchs.
strokes finish with a 55.62 and a look forward to a solid week of played for the 1938 Monarchs.
finishing second (1:41.33) to "It was easier when I got to
2:00.43 respectively. In one of training and next Friday's meet "I told him just go stand at theWabash's 1:40.73. 
The women were equally the closest races of the day, against interstate rival Bowling the majors," said Monte Irvin, corner of 18th and Vine and junior Matt Rose fmished second Green. who batted .404 in 1946 before you'll find him."
Impressive capturing the meet 
Hild gen 
To be he in the
' 

LaFort 
of 
·;:;~~_.,...*"'""'"-""'""""·'·-.JfJI; me, 

Wedne OOp.m. 
resented by: 
DrBr State Founder oft Society of Hildegar n Studies 
Sponsered by: Mu Executive Council 
Monday, October 30, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL • CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles struggle with inconsistency Irish earn respect in 
By STEPHANIE BUEK 
Sports Writer 
From mental mistakes to defensive deficiencies, victories have been few and far between for the Saint Mary's volleyball team. Saturday was no excep­tion. as the Belles fell in four games to a comparably matched Lake Forest College squad, 6-15,11-15,15-11, and 6-15. 
Now 10-11, the loss not only dropped the team below the .500 mark for the first time this SllUson. but plaeed its goal of finishing the season with a win­ning record in jeopardy. 
llead Coach Julie Schroeder­Biek summed up the team's problem against Lake Forest sueeinetly: serve reception. According to Schroeder-Biek, poor passing led to offensive irwllideney, as the Belles could not get the ball to sophomore sntwr Kelly Meyer. 
Without the passes, said Sehroeder-Biek, Moyer could not initiate the attack. 
"Serve reception killed us," said Sehroeder-Biek. "(Lake Fon1st1 had a few well-placed snrves, but wn just did not get good defensive consistency; we did not get the ball to Kelly (Meyer)." she eoncluded. 
Schroeder-Biek was par­ticularly frustrated with Saturday's performance in light of last week's practices, which she specifically designed to emphasize perfect passing. 
In practice, Saint Mary's exhibited consistent defense, passing 100 balls to target in less than 20 minutes. 
Yet, they could not bring such passing prowess form a prac­tice setting to a prime-time sit­uation. 
''I'm at a loss because we practiced passing the whole week," said Schroeder-Biek. 
Citing Saturday's third game as an example, senior outside attack Kelly Prosser agreed that the Belles have talent beyond what they showed against Lake Forest. 
As passing improved in game three, so did the team's overall play. 
"When we could passed, they could not stop our offense," said Prosser. 
Indeed, sophomore outside attack Meg Kelly not only played an outstanding third game, but was a stand-out in the match as a whole, leading the team with 20 kills. 
"Meg had a great day," said freshman middle attack Laura Schreeg. "Her hitting was awe­some. Even though we did not play well as a team, she de­serves lots of credit." 
Superior individual play aside, the Belles head into their final week of competition looking to finish the season with strong team play all the way around. 
Playing at Anderson Uni­versity Wednesday at 5 p.m. and at Goshen. Calvin, and Purdue Calumet next Saturday at 11 a.m., the Belles have live matches remaining on their schedule. 
At 10-11, each game will be critical for the team to accom­plish one of its main goals for the season, a winning record. 
According to Prosser, the Belles want to redeem their losses of late in the next five matches, especially against nationally-ranked rival. Calvin College. The team lost to Calvin in the first home match of the season. 
"I hope we can play ourselves out of a below .500 record," said Prosser. ''I'm looking for­ward to playing Calvin; we did not show them anything we are capable of when we played them earlier this season. If we can play well the rest of the season and against Calvin, it will show that we didn't give up. even when we were down." 
Big East championship 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame cross coun­try teams participated in the Big East Championship for the first time on Saturday. The men finished third and the women landed a seventh place finish of thirteen teams. 
Senior Derek Seiling led the Irish by placing fifth overall with a time of 25:01. Seiling has been the first Irish finisher three meets in a row. "I was gone all last year, and it took me a little while to get back in the swing of racing," Seiling said. 
Freshmen Antonio Arce fin­ished second for Notre Dame and seventeenth overall in 
25:40. Sophomore Jason Hexing and junior Matt Althoff were close behind, with times of 25:41 and 25:42, re­spectively. Senior Joe Dunlop finished twenty-fourth in 25:52. 
"We had a couple good performances and a couple of guys that could have done bet­ter...the freshmen Antonio Arce had a hell of a race," Seiling commented. 
The men's team finished behind the winner Providence and tenth ranked Georgetown. Mark Carroll of Providence lin-

RELIGIOUS STUDIES DEPARTMENT 
SA,.NT  SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE  SA,.NT  
MARY'S COLLEGE NOTRE DAME, IN  MARY'S COLLEGE NOTRE DAME, IN  

THEOLOGY ELECTIVES SPRING 1996 
Won1en Mystics (321)  TT: 1:15  Egan  
Thotnas Merton (335)  M: 6:30  Malits  
Religion & P8ychology (350)  TT: 2:45  Kaminski  
Christ:  Old-New Views (450)  MWF: 11:15  Martin  
Theological Ethics (458)  MW: 3:25  Newman  

For more information see the DART listings or call 284-4636 
Miss SaigoJI\ 
November 11 The Auditorium Theatre in Chicago 
Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Information Desk beginning tomorrow for only $22 which includes bus to/from Chicago. 
Free time before and after show to enjoy the city! Buses will depart at 4 p.m ... Show begins at 8 p.m. Appropriate attire required (i.e. no jeans) 
Sponsored by the Senior Class of 1996 
Priority availability given to Seniors 

ished first with a time of 24:30. "Our goal was to win (the Big East Championship), but you never know what's going to happen in cross country," Seiling said. 
Seiling said the team's goal is to finish in the top four at nationals. In order to secure an automatic birth at nationals. the Irish will have to be in the top three at the district tourna­ment in two weeks. Wisconsin, ranked number one, and another top ten team Michigan will be at the district meet. 
Notre Dame will need a strong performance against the tough competition, but Seiling thinks the Irish can do better. "We haven't yet put together a solid race from everyone on the team," Seiling said. 
Senior Maureen Kelly ran a time of 18:38, good for a twen­ty-third place finish. Seniors Kristen Dudas and Amy Siegal crossed the line next for the Irish, running 19:05 and 19:06 to place thirty-second and thir­ty-third, respectively. 
Other scoring team members included freshmen Mary Volland and sophomore Mieke Walsh. Volland finished in 
19:32 and Walsh in 19:36. 
Providence won both the men's and women's titles. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS Late Night Olympics Steering Committee RecSports is looking for some enthusiastic students who would be interested in helping to plan this all-night sports extravaganza. All funds raised from LNO will go to benefit Special Olympics. Anyone interested should coli 1-8237. Needed • Basketball officials for lnterhall and Grad/Fac/Staff Games pays $8.50 a game. If you are a Co­Ree official and would like to do other basketball leagues, call1-6100 and ask for Mark. Interested athletes HecSports is offering IH, Club, and Grad/Fac/Staff Basketball, IH and Grad/Fac/Staff Ice Hockey and Campus Co-Ree Broomball. Deadline for entries Is Nov. 1. Captains meetings are Thurs., Nov. 2. Irish Outdoors -A meeting will be held today, at 9 p.m •• at Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Topics are a 
weekend trip In Nov. member­ship cards, and t·shirts. 

SanJose $239 london S289 Moscow $319 Tel AVIV $429 Taipei $429 Tolnro $450 SVdnev S&89 
F..-~~om~~~~J~~:!:
r.:., subject to chonse ond/or ovalloblllty. 
CMI todoy frN o!Mr _,dw/• ..u...~~on.. 
[it.iiiiNIITravel~ 
CIEE• Council on llltemat!onol Educollonol Euhqe 
1-800-2-CDUNC/l 
11-808-226-86241 
Call todav for aFREE 
Student Travelsmauazinel 

The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 30, 1995 
thei. rewarded for hanging out on the "We played awesome," said doorstep, putting in the shot from

WoiDen 
Daws. "Everybody was having a close range on assists from continued from page 16 lot of fun, a lot of different people McCarthy and Sobrero. scored, and everybody got to play.from Manthei and McCarthy. It 
That was a great opportunity for Three minutes later, the Irish was VanLaecke's sixth goal in 
everybody to end on a good note." struck again as Gerardo added seven games. With the closing of the series another close-range goal. Boston with Butler comes the opening of College scored with less than five Butler's final goal of the day the Big East post-season. minutes remaining in the half on 
came as a result of a Notre Dame 
freshman Kiera McKeon's shot failure to clear the box on a corner The Irish played their last regu­from the top of the box. kick. Kelly Hurd scored the goal 
lar season Big East foe Friday The final goal was added early in for the Bulldogs. night, beating Boston College 3-1. the second half when McCarthy 
The Irish scored another three This game was also an easy one received a pass from Gerardo and straight to close out the scoring. for the Irish, who had to overcome shot from nine yards away. McCarthy eluded the Bulldogs' the intermittent cold rain and goalie easily with good dribbling in winds as well as the Eagles. "It's great to be in a challenging the box. Notre Dame outshot BC 26-2 on conference," Petrucelli said. "But 
the day, shutting out the Eagles in Butler and Xavier (Notre Dame's Gerardo added the next goal the second half. o-pponent last Wednesday) were with a drive into the box. good teams, each of them a step 

The Observer I Mike Ruma Guerrero scored the last regular The scoring began almost 17 away from the NCAA tournament Freshman Shannon Boxx attemps a header on goal. season goal of the year on a cross minutes into the game on a this year. In fact Butler was the 
Although turned away, the play set the tone for the game. from Coyne, also assisted by Man-VanLaecke goal. The junior was best team in the MCC this year." 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish playoff hopes in doubt following loss to UConn 
By DYLAN BARMMER picture is grim. A win against Sports Writer Villanova would leave Notre Dame with just 8 points on the 
Life in the Big East has not Big East season. The Irish cur­been pleasant for the Notre rently are tied for second-to­Dame men's soccer team. last with 6 points. 
An upstart newcomer to the powerful conference this sea­Eight points may not be son, the Irish were pegged by enough to sneak the Irish into many pundits to be among the the tournament. top five teams in the Big East, Connecticut, sparked to vic­but reality has dealt them a tory by a Jeffery DiMaria hat cruel blow. trick, moved their record to 4­
A 4-0 drubbing at the hands 5-1 in conference play, most of Connecticut on Sunday af­likely cementing them a spot in ternoon dropped the struggling the tournament which begins Irish to 3-7 in Big East play on on November 10. Notre the season, and virtually Dame's loss was clearly the dashed any hopes the team had Huskies' gain. been entertaining about sneak­The Irish were only outshot ing into the eight-team confer­by a 16-11 margin, but Con­ence tournament and surpris­necticut's Robb Myers was able ing the likes of Rutgers and St. to record the shutout in making John's. 8 saves, while Notre Dame 
freshman Gerick Short record­
The loss was hard to swallow ed a mere 2 in just his second for the young Irish team ~s it collegiate start. was their fourth straight con­The shutout was only the ference loss. After defeating fourth the Irish have suffered Syracuse 3-0 in their first ever on the season, with three of Big East game back on them coming at the hands of September 10, the Irish, beset Big East opponents. by the twin demons of injuries and inconsistency, have gone 2-The Irish offense has man­7 in conference play, including aged just 5 goals in their last 4 a 1-4 mark over their last 5 Big games, 4 of which came in a East matches, in which they win over Western Michigan on have also been outscored by a October 26. margin of 15-2. The match against Villanova 
The loss dropped the Irish to will be at Alumni Field on Fri­
8-9 overall on the season, and day, November 3, and the Irish 
with just one Big East match will finsh off the regular season 
with Villanova remaining in with a November 5 game at 
their season, the post-season Wisconsin. 
~f~J..IJII (~()J..IJ!IN 
The Italian Club will hold a meeting on Wednesday, November 1st at 
8:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune (3rd floor). 
Aikido Club regular practice times in Room 219 of the Rockne Memorial are Mondays 8-10 p.m.; Tuesdays 5:30-7:30 p.m.; Fridays 4-6 p.m. Contact DeeAnn Lett-Neal at 1-5382 if you would like to observe or join in. Tai'chi is on Sundays 1 0-Noon, Room 301. 
1l1is .o;ervice i.o; (Jrol'ided lhryou by the Clnb Coordination Coundl. 6314078 206 LaFortune 


Tuesday, October 31 doors open at 9:00 p.tn. 

Costume required for admission. prizesfor best costumes. 
Monday, October 30, 1995 
The Observer· TODAY 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
.•."I'"'> jun L,~, Te to"'"' D{:f ~""\e ow..-\• LE<'l~~E \NIT>\ A f5:w 
Cot<c.•vOu·>G, 'Srl><tt/OU<~, CLII'S.3. .• 
J 
DILBERT 
~H=EA~D~Q~UA~~~T~E~R~S~------~~ 
0 

1-\E.Y, CHUC.I\'5 LOOt<..ING 
"' 
"' @ ,.

UNI-\A.PPY IODAY. WHI\1'5 
0 
"' 
...

THE PROBLEJ'I\, C>IG GUY? 
"' 
... 
0 
u 
"' 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Nun's garb 6 Rows after A 9 Exited quickly 
13 Give off 14 Pinza of "South Pacific" 16 Oahu banquet 
11 Used 19Gumbo ingredient 20 Demand, as a 
price 21 "-Abby" 22 "Animal Farm" 
author 24 Monk's hood 25 Gallic girlfriend 26 Stoneworker 29 Rabble-rouser 
34 Apology, to Pablo 36 -King Cole 37 Drive out 3BColumbia mascot 39 Cord fiber 41 Bridge or tunnel charge 42 Overshoe 43--v. Wade 44 Theater district 46 Symbol sharing a "7" key 49 Villain's look 
50 Legendary basketball coach Adolph 
51 Like peas in -­53 Ukrainian peninsula 56 Type of exam 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ALL OF 1"'\Y BAD DECISIONS 
A.RE Ci\ICI-\ING UP TO ME. COULD WE DO ANOTHER 
R£.0RG TO COVER M'< 
TRACKS!" 
57 60's hip 60 Etna output 61 Smuggled 
goods 64 Persia, today &5--homo 66 Warrin' 
Harding? 67 Await judgment 68 Danson of 
"Cheers" 69Adhesive 
DOWN 
1 "--Rebel" ('62 Crystals hit) 2 Xand Yon a graph 3 Dollar 4 Altar words 5 Body cords &On--of (representing) 
• OF INTEREST Phone books are available today and tomorrow
1
from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 1 to 5 p.m. at the I Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune. 

....,.,.-::T:::-r.,.,.-,:--, 7 55-Down, e.g. a Babel 9 Place to buy 
roses 10 New Testament book 11 Marquis's inferior 
..,;..+:,:+.~~"F.+.7! 12 Twofold 5 Dashboard item a Tears of morning? !3 "Spare" body 
~~=:+.:-i part 

!4 Rescind 
~=+=~tEB-:+::-f 

.=.J..::..L.:.:..L.:...J..::..J..:.:.L=..J.::..:...l.=..J !5 Asia's --·Sea 
DAVE KELLETT 
0Hf'!ElEC!.
(Yu,..o... I 
~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
'' ... THESE CHANGES WILL 
A.LLOW U~ TO FOCUS 
ON OUR CORE. BUSINESS.'' 

26Peach-­27 You can believe 
it 28 News exclusive 300ne-­
(unlikely chances) 31 Burn --in one's pocket 32 "Cape Fear" star 33 Grief 
35 Area protected by military planes 
40 Daytime fare 45 Pinpoint 47 Wish it weren't 
so 48 Moved quickly 52 Score to beat 53 Football foul 54 Steak order 
55 --the Terrible 56 Formerly 57 Horse racing's 
--War 58 Banded 
chalcedony 59 6/6/44 62 Sept. follower 63 Jazz style 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
page IS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, OCTOBER 30, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of binh, call 1·900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Untangling a confused relationship 
will smooth your path to success. At 
work, avoid biting off more than 
you can chew. Teamwork is the key 
to getting ahead. Learn to delegate 
authority. Those in the arts receive 
more financial suppon. An employ. 
ment change next spring will mean 
greater financial security and emo­
tional satisfaction. Travel in summer 
of '96. An autumn wedding could 
follow. You are poised on the brink 
of a wonderful discovery! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: filmmaker Louis 
Malle, Argentinean soccer star 
Diego Maradona, rocker Grace 
Slick, actress Ruth Gordon. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Give top priority to projects that 
challenge your intellect. Your intu. 
ition is right on target. Someone 
makes an interesting proposition. 
Review your options carefully 
before giving your final answer. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A 
calm discussion will provide 
answers while defusing heated tem­
pers. Enter into business negotia. 
tions with gusto. Your excellent 
work can no longer be ignored. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An unexpected cash infusion helps you reach a goal. A dream can come true if you believe in yourself. Cut your ties to people who drag you down. Their company is nor worth it. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Beware of becoming so absorbed in an activity that the passing parade leaves you behind. You will soon receive the acclaim you deserve for a special project or idea. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Weed the clutter from your life. Relinquish people or projects you have out­grown. Acquiring new knowledge will broaden your intellectual hori­zons. Be versatile. Welcome a job offer that is truly out of the ordinary. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take charge at work. Influential 
people have their eye on you. 
Although several relationships are 
undergoing change, you will emerge 
a stronger, happier person. Make the 
most of a financial opportunity. 
Press your advantage. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You 
are the victor in a battle of wits! 
Your breadth of knowledge impress­
es others. Be careful not to neglect 
your mate or offspring. Stay alen 
where money is concerned. Some· 
one may be dishonest. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): 
Higher-ups give your request.~ a fair 
hearing now. Enjoy the special ben· 
efits a new position offers. Self­
improvement activities enjoy highly 
favorable influences. The big pay­
off could be a happy, enduring 
romance! 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21 ): Actions speak louder than 
words. Cast timidity overboard and 
pursue the love of your life. Selfless 
actions are the best remedy for a 
blue mood. Roll up your sleeves and 
aid a humanitarian enterprise. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Intellectual endeavors are favored. Let higher-ups know exact­ly what you are thinking and doing. A teen-ager's behavior may try your patience. Reserve judgment until you have all the facts. A romance breaks new ground. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Treading the middle of the road pays off handsomely when dealing with conservative people. Remem­ber who controls the purse strings! Someone new moves into your neighborhood. Chance remarks could backfire. Treasure your family and friends. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Play it safe with your personal finances. Investigate companies that want your business. Romantic pan­ner will do you a special favor. Be appreciative. A business function will have social overtones. Dress your best and act dignified. 
!•. MENU Notre Dame 
North Turkey and Stuffing Italian Sole Scallop Stir-Fry 
I 
Saint Marr,'s London Broil Baked Lasagna California Vegetables South Turkey and Stuffing Kielbasa Manicotti 
Celebrate a 
friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. • 
• 
• 


• HOCKEY 

Home opener yields shaky start. 
By MIKE DAY the Irish went from leading 4-3 to tunistic and that helped us win this Spom Writer trailing 6-4. A few key mental laps­game. It was good to get this win es in the period led to the Irish's under our belt." This one belonged to Bean Town. 
downfall. Offense was not the problemHeading into Friday night's battle 
"We had too many individual against the Eagles. Freshmen of the Catholics, thoughts of revenge 
breakdowns in the second and third Aniket Dhadphale, Benoit Coitner, danced in the heads of the Boston 
periods," said head coach Dave and Brian Urick scored one goalCollege hockey team. They dropped 
Poulin. "It's frustrating because apiece as the Irish built a 3-1 lead a heartbreaker to the Irish in the 
each one is so correctable. That is midway through the second period. final minute of last season's contest, an area that has to be improved on." "They have really come on for us so the Eagles were seeking more 
For Boston College, it was the this season," said Poulin. "We are than their first win of the 1995 cam­
David Hymovitz show in the third confident with having Urick and paign. 

period. With 9:16 left in the contest, Dhadpahale on the front line at anyAfter 60 grueling minutes of hock­the senior right wing beat Irish goal­time. They are still learning, but
• 
ey, Boston College accomplished 
tender Forest Karr one on one to tie we're pleased with their per­their mission and walked away with 
the score at four. formance up to this point." their first victory of the season (7-5) 
Just 33 seconds later, Hymovitz After being held in check for the in the process. 
emerged again, slapping the puck first four games, center TerryA minute span midway through 
past the outstretched glove of Karr Lorenz and right wing Tim Harberts the third period turned out to spell 
to give the Eagles a 5-4 advantage. recorded their first goals of the sea­doom for the Irish. Leading 4-3 with 
Notre Dame was never able to son to give Notre Dame fans reason just under 10 minutes remaining in 
recover, and Boston College coasted to remain optimistic in wake of the the game, Notre Dame seemed des­
to the 7-5 victory . 1-4 start. 

• 
tined to tally their second victory of 
"They had a letdown in the third "It was good to see the two of the season before a home crowd of 
period, and we were able to exploit them get their first goals," said 2667. 
that," said Boston College coach Poulin. "They've played hard and However, in the blink of an eye, 
Jerry York. "We were very oppor-been all over the ice for us this year. 


Football Cross Country 


• Men's Soccer struggles against UConn 
vs. Navy, November 4, 1:30p.m. EST 
District Meet, November 11 
see page 14 

Volleyball
SPORTS 
SMC Sports 

vs. Saint John's, November 3, 8 p.m. 
• Swimming dominates Boston College 
Soccer at Valparaiso, November 2 

vs. Connecticut. November 5, 8 p.m. 
at a 
Volleyball at Anderson University, 
see page 12
November 1 

Men's Soccer 
vs. Villanova, November 3, 7:30 p.m. 
• SMC Volleyball 

at Wisconsin, November 5, 1 p.m. 
see page 13
GLANC 






