

Monday, January 23, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 70 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students hear views of gang life 
Editor's Note: The members of 
this panel declined to be identi­fied with their last names. 
By CHRIS CORRENTE News Writer 
Only gang members them­selves can prevent gang vio­lence from hurting the youth, according to Darryl, a gang member from the Cabrini Green housing project in Chicago. 
Darryl was one of five young men who, along with Brother Bill Tomes and Brother Jim Fogerty of the Brothers and Sisters of Love, spoke to Notre Dame students on Saturday about gangs. 
"You only learn from your mistakes," Darryl said. "Instead of grabbing our guns, we havn to bn the ones to stop the violence for the kids." 
According to Fognrty, steps have been taken towards achieving peace among gangs. Following the accidental shoot­ing of a second-grader several years ago, a peace treaty was formed between the Vicelords and Disciples, two conflicting gangs in the Chicago area. 
The treaty only lasted several months in most areas, but it has remained intact in Cabrini Green, significantly decreasing the amount of gang violence. 
In other areas, however, gang violence is inescapable. Jason, the only speaker not in a gang, claimed that in Deerborn Homes near Chicago, even those not involved in gangs are 
assumed to be members by other gangs. 
"If you tell them you're not in a gang, they're not going to be­lieve you because their minds are corrupted," he said. "It's everywhere. You can't run from it." 
Darryl claimed that easy ac­cess to guns and a sense of re­venge often lead to gang shootings. 
"If I hadn't been shot, I never would have picked up a gun," he said, having been shot four times when he was sixteen. "It's fun to shoot, but it's not fun to get shot." 
Greg, of Cabrini Green, said that joining a gang for him was "like going to school" because he felt he was among friends. He added that the key to sur­vivalin gangs is to "take it day by day." 
Tomes and Fogerty explained that as missionaries of the Brothers and Sisters of Love, they walk throughout the hous­ing projects of Chicago trying to bring God's love into the lives of those affected by and involved in gang violence. Tomes claimed that those he comes in contact with are "often closer to God in a sense because they don't know if tomorrow they're going to be here or not." 
Despite their mission of peace, the Brothers and Sisters are subject to the random shootings that often break out. Tomes himself has dodged twenty-eight near-hits while walking the streets. 

The ObserverfTina Lemker 

Collection of comedy 
The Second City Comedy Group performed to a capacitycrowd at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Theater on Saturday mght. 

Defense exhibit launches Week 
By MYRNA MALONEY 
Assistam Saim Mary's Editor 
"Learning to Defend Yourself Against Violent Attack," will be presented by nationally­renowned self-defense expert Debbie Gardner tonight from 6­9 pm in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Gardner is one of several women who will be featured January 23-28 in the first an­nual Saint Mary's Women's Week, according to Melissa Pe­ters, vice-president for Student Affairs. 
"There is a special activity planned for each day this week which will focus on current women's issues," Peters said. 
Also tonight Saint Mary's alumna Janet Hauter will pre­sent a lecture entitled "Psyching Up for the World of Work," beginning at 7 pm in the Little Theater. A reception will follow. 
Later in the week, the Sisters of the Iloly Cross, the Center for Spirituality, and the Center for Academic Innovation are spon­soring a discussion on women seekers Tuesday in Stapleton Lounge from 7 pm to 8:15 pm Women Scholars from the Lilly Fellows Program will be lead­ing the discussion, according to Peters. 
Wednesday, students are in­vited to attend a Brown Bag Lunch with Phyllis Kaminski, assistant professor of religious 

Saint Mary's College Women's Week 
:)"Learning to Defend Yourself" 6-9 p.m. 0 lin Auditorium 
:)"Thelma and Louise" Friday and Saturday 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Carroll Auditorium 
:)"Play of the Mind Conference" Friday through Sunday 
studies, from noon to 1 pm in Haggar Parlor. "Mary, the Cross and Women's Bodies: Feminist Theory and Theology" will be Kaminski's lecture topic. Students should bring their own lunch. 
"Students are encouraged to 

Rita hearing postponed 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
A preliminary hearing con­cerning the retrial of Notre Dame law school graduate John Rita on a charge of leav­ing the scene of a fatal accident was postponed Friday until February 24. 
St. Joseph's County Prosecu­tor Michael Barnes said he asked for the postponement so that he might have time to question a witness that Rita's defense attorney, Charles Asher, planned to have testify at the hearing. 
Rita, 25, of Springfield, Vir­ginia, was acquitted by a jury in November of a charge of driving drunk and causing the death of Mara Fox as she walked along Douglas Road in the early hours of November 13, 1993. . 
Fox was an eighteen year-old Notre Dame freshman at the time of the accident. Rita was a third-year law student who went on to graduate with hon­ors in May 1994. 
At his first trial Rita also faced the charge of leaving the scene of a fatal accident. After nearly nine hours of delibera­tions the jury could not reach a verdict, and St. Joseph's County Superior Court Judge William Albright declared a mistrial. 
Barnes announced January 4 that he intended to retry Rita 
see RITA I page 4 

Vandiver: Battle also fought away from cities 
By PIERRE MACGILLIS News Writer 
A crucial portion of the emerging awareness of racial equality was accomplished on a smaller scale, far a:way from metropolitan America, said Beverly Vandiver, a staff psy­chologist in the University Counseling Center, last Friday. 
At a luncheon sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, Vandiver spoke about "Growing up in a Family Committed to the Civil Rights Movement," sharing her child­hood memories of growing up in rural Kentucky, away from the more famous battle lines of the civil rights movement. 
Vandiver credits her mother and father for giving her the drive to escape the restraints imposed upon her way of life. 
Her parents, despite only having only eighth-grade educations, strongly encour­aged their children to pursue higher education, and were also unusually interested in current events. 
"They were newsfreaks, and at times subscribed to three newspapers and two news­magazines at the same time," she said. 
This zeal for political and cultural awareness was extended into energetic activism, such as editorial writ­ing and schoolboard politics, Vandiver said. 
Her childhood memories of racism and racial division in­cluded her attendance at a "colored" grade school, which combined eight grades into one classroom. 
She also remembered that the great majority of blacks worked for whites and that there were certain situations and places that her parents would avoid for fear of harsh treatment. 
Her sister was one of the first African-Americans to enter a former all-white com­munity high school after the Supreme Court mandated desegregation in the case "Brown vs. Board of Education." However, eight years passed after the ruling until the local high school was, in fact, desegregated. 
The economic structure in place also stifled the frank and uncompromising activism that her parents exhibited, accord­ing to Vandiver. 
"The fearless questioning of authority, when justifiable, Is a necessary component of progress," she said. 
attend a benefit for the YWCA Women's Shelter on January 25 (Wednesday) in the Angela Athletic Facility at 8 pm," Pe­ters said. 
"Healthy Hearts for Healthy 
see WEEK I page 4 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, January 23, 1994 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 




MTV... 

A Waste of a Great Idea 
MTV used to be a great idea. When the channel began in 1981, it was an attempt to bring visual music to a frenzied mass ofcable-owners,greedy for a deluge of entertain­ment possibilities. At that time, it was at its most basic format: taking songs that were popular on radio charts, getting videos for them, and rehashing the same music you would have heard on your local rock-n-roll station. Yet watching MTV became a novelty, appealing to an audience the size of which programmers had probably only dreamed of, and eventually represented a chunk of the 80's and its over­excessiveness. This popularity led to a demise in creativity over their 14-year history. 
As MTV grew throughout the 80's, so did their propensity for experimentation. In 1985, the ftrst MTV Video Awards were given out, and the show became accepted as the gauge for who made the best videos of the previous year. In 1986, the alternative rock show "120 Minutes" began, giving those who were a bit turned off by the mainstream a chance to watch videos by bands that they liked. "Yo! MTV Raps" debuted in 1988, as MTV realized there was rap music beyond Run DMC and the Beastie Boys. A game show surfaced, new hip VJ's scooted in and out as if MTV signed them to weekly contracts, and video countdown shows became common­place. 
All of these and many other experiments worked magically. The channel reached enormous levels of viewers and began to feed on it. MTV was watched at all hours and no one day of the week was much better than any other day. Advertising beckoned as MTV centered on the young and carefree viewing audience which makes sponsors drool. 
As the nineties began, some of the time for­merly used for videos MTV now used for shows. And even when they did take some time to play videos, the heavy rotation bin ruled the screens, the making of that list aided by a wave of new Billboard charts, including rap and modern rock. 
For the first time, bands were selling records solely because of MTV. This is not necessarily a bad thing; MTV programmers should have been proud that they could have such an impact. The outcome only gratified their collective ego and led them to believe they were causing a "music revolution." 
MTV's problem revolves around the fact that too many artists have a particular video of theirs play too much of the time. To sug­gest that MTV do away completely with those artists would be lunacy; in order to keep view­ers, and hence keep sponsors and stay in business, MTV needs to play videos by artists like Aerosmith, TLC, and Sheryl Crow while also realizing how quickly repetitiveness makes things stale. 
MTV should take some time to grow again. Not necessarily to invent new shows or for­mats, but the easiest kind of experimentation possible: play more videos by obscure artists. If MTV wants to be a channel of revolution, then they should act that way, utilizing the immense freedom they have. By continually playing the role of cowardly bandwagoneers, MTV will still have an audience, but it will not open their minds to new music. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Rob Adams Music Critic 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Viewpoint Brad Prendergasr Suzy Fry Edward lmbus Lab Tech 
Sports Jenn Rezeli Joe Villinski Accent Man Casey Jenny Shank Production Graphics 
Dave Diaz Tom Roland Tara Grieshop 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• Wom.o AT A GLANCE 
"Forrest Gump," "Pulp Fiction" score big at Golden Globes 
BEVERLY HILLS "It's tragic how much I'm The quirky Tom Hanks box-Golden Globe Winners enjoying getting this. Virtuallyoffice smash "Forrest Gump" uncool," joked Grant, the elu­topped Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp sive bachelor of "Four Fiction" in the 52nd Golden Globe Weddings and a Funeral." Awards, often a bellwether for the Movie Winners "You're supposed to think Oscars. awards are invidious, but this is 
"Gump," the saga of a (very) heaven." 
simple country boy, won best dra-D F G Curtis, the would-be spy of matic picture; Hanks won best rama: orrest ump "True Lies," tnanked director dramatic actor and Robert Actress Drama: Jessica Lange "Blue Sky" James Cameron for "letting me Zemeckis was best director. Actor Drama: Tom Hanks "Forrest Gump" hang from a helicopter on my 
"Pulp Fiction," a dark gangster Supporting Actor: Martin Landeau 35th birthday." film that some have criticized as "Ed Wood" Dianne Wiest, who plays the too violent, picked up an award Supporting Actress: Dianne Wiest flamboyant stage star in Woody
for best screenplay, by writer-Allen's "Bullets Over director Tarantino. "Bullets over Broadway" Broadway," won best support-The two movies are considered Director: Robert Zemeckis "Forrest Gump" ing actress in a drama. Martin front-runners for best picture at ~ Landau, Bela Lugosi in "Ed 
~:rts:2!:i~~2~~ih:~~~f~~: ·di:Ai Television Winners: :CJ{{~~~ :::e:e::ts:ps::::ii:: season. ovation along with the Cecil B. His feel-good film amassed DeMille Award for service to $300.6 million in ticket sales Drama series: "The X,files" filmmaking, presented by before it was pulled .from theaters Comedy series: "Frasier" & Charlton Heston, her co-star in Friday. Paramount Pictures will "Mad About You" "El Cid," and Robert Altman, re-release it Feb. 17, three days Mini,series: "The Burning Season" her director in "Ready to 
after the Oscar nominations are Wear." 
announced. L------------------.J "Pulp Fiction" has garnered the majority of critics' In television, the Fox series "The X-Files," Dennis awards and grossed $70 million. Franz of ABC's "NYPD Blue" and Claire Danes of ABC's One surprise was Jessica Lange's best dramatic actress "My So-Called Life" took top dramatic honors. NBC's award for her angry Army wife in "Blue Sky," which had 'Frasier" and "Mad About You" tied for the comedy a limited release. Even its star called it "a strange and series award. Tim Allen of ABC's "Home Improvement" peculiar little film." and Helen Hunt of "Mad About You" took best comedy "The Lion King" won for best comedy or musical, while acting awards. . Hugh Grant and Jamie Lee Curtis picked up awards for The Golden Globes are awarded by the 100 or so mem­best comedy performances. bers of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. 
Kennedy matriarch dies at 104 
HYANNIS PORT, Mass. 
Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy., the matri­arch whose faith and quiet strength saw one of America's most prominent families through three generations of political triumphs and personal tragedies, died Sunday. She was 104. Mrs. Kennedy died from complications of pneumonia at 5:30 p.m. at the fami­ly compound on Cape Cod, said Scott 

Ferson, a spokesman for her son Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass. "Mother passed away peacefully today," the senator said in a statement. "She had a long and extraordinary life, and we loved her deeply. To all of us in the Kennedy and Fitzgerald families, she was the most beautiful rose of all." The senator and his wife, Victoria, and several other family members were present when Mrs. Kennedy died. Also at her side were: daugh­ters Patricia Kennedy Lawford, Ambassador Jean Kennedy Smith, and Eunice Kennedy Shriver; Sen. Robert P. Kennedy's widow, Ethel; Mrs. Kennedy's son­in-law Sargent Shriver; and many grandchildren. Mrs. Kennedy had used a wheelchair since suffering a stroke in April 1984. Last Monday, she had trouble breathing but was not hospitalized. She once .described her life as a series of "agonies and ecstasies." Four of her nine chil­dren were killed in their prime -two in plane crashes and two by assassins' bullets. One daughter was retarded and a grandson died of a drug overdose. She was a devout Roman Catholic, and her church helped her bear her sorrows. After President John F. Kennedy's assassi­nation in 1963, she said, ''I've learned to be brave and 
put my faith in the will of God. No matter what, God wants us to be happy." 

French bishop dismissed by Vatican 
EVREUX, France 

A bishop dismissed by the Vatican for his dissident views and maverick style delivered the ftnal Mass of his tenure Sunday with a promise to continue both his reli­gious work and his activism. About 8,000 supporters gathered in the rain outside this town's cathedral, about 60 miles northwest of Paris, to listen to Bishop Jacques Gaillot's homily over loudspeakers. Roughly 2,000 others filled the church, including four French bishops, liberal activist leaders and the Communist mayor of Evreux. Gaillot thanked supporters for their solidarity and pledged to continue his work "in communion with the church to bring the good word to the poor. The church must be the church of the excluded and not of exclu­sion," he said. The Vatican, after years of annoyance at Gaillot's high-profile challenges to church positions, dis­missed him Jan. 13 as bishop of the diocese of Evreux. He remains a priest. 
Swimmer attempts to cross Atlantic 
PARIS 

A Frenchman attempting to swim across the Atlantic Ocean lost his raft for 2 1/2 hours over the weekend, and was exhausted when he finally found it, his support team said Sunday. Guy Delage, on the 36th day of his attempt to swim across the Atlantic, broke one of his specially designed flippers and became separated Saturday from the 15-foot raft, his team said. The raft is essential to Delage's attempted crossing because it carries his food and equipment and provides a place to sleep. Delage had to swim against swells 10-12 feet high and continu­ally lost sight of the raft as it drifted more than 300 yards away, his team said. 


Monday, Jan. 23 The Accu-Weather® forecast .for noon, Monday, Jan. 23. Accu-Weather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

40s lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
FRONTS: 
-r-r ~ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 

H L 
~u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Associated Press 
Atlanta 48 26 Dallas 62 34 New Orteans 56 32 Baltimore 35 26 Denver 51 20 New York 38 
29 Boston 37 30 Los Angeles 59 51 Philadelphia 39 28 Chicago 29 17 Miami 66 56 Phoenix 62 
51 Columbus 33 21 Minneapolis 25 6 St. Louis 40 17 

~----~~-~--~ 
-1 
I 
Monday, January 23, 1995 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Five frosh win AP honor 
'\'ec~nomic issues." The gold
By EDWARD IMBUS Stevenson High School in Lin­this honor in 1994. 
:. and silver medals in that
News Writer colnshire, Ill.; Eugenio Fernan­The AP exams give students 
·• ·· category were awarded to
dez, a graduate of Polytechnic the opportunity to earn college 
.. . ..... programs produced by the
Five Notre Dame freshmen School in Pasadena, Calif.; credit while still enrolled in 
•·· .·· National Geographic Society. · 
have been named National Ad· Michael Hardgrove, a graduate high school. 
the ...,:wo~king: The American
vanced Placement Scholars by of Evanston Township High Exam scores of 3, 4, or 5 are 
(est~vn Worker" examines the lives,
the College Board. School in Evanston, Ill.; Daniel accepted by more than 2,900 
~J,ston.Jn:t~m:lat1ftlDI'-l.. Film hopes, and fears of today's
To qualify for the award, stu­Smith, a graduate of Archmere institutions for credit or ad­
last workers. It includes the per·
dents must score at least a four Academy in Claymont, Del.; and vanced placement in college 
sonal story of David Baumer,
on a five-point scale on 8 Ad­Matthew Wingerter, a graduate courses, according to the 
who lost a job at General Mo­
vanced Placement (AP) exami­of Devon Preparatory School in Board. 
tors; profiles of several em­
nations in high school. Devon, Pa. 
ployment agencies; and inter·
Notre Dame's Advanced Notre Dame's AP policy nor­
views with U.S. labor secre­
Placement Scholars are Kristin They were among just 615 mally requires a minimum 
tary Robert Reich and several
Alworth, a graduate of Adlai students nationwide to earn score of 4 for credit, according 
corporate executives, union 
16 SEMESTER CREDITS APPLICABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS
Small Blizzard® or Breeze® for $100! OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION ,ROOM
Peanut Buster Parfait® for $1°0! 
&BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETINGS: 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1995 7 P.M. 
HESBURGH LIBRARY AVDITORIVM
2Hot Dogs for $1°0! 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1995 7 P.M. SAINT MARY'S HAGGAR PARLOR· 
FOR FURTHER lNFORMA TlON: DR. C. PULLAPlLLY
Double Burger for $100! 
MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284·4468/4474 

---~~ -------~---------------~-~---------------......... 
Monday, January 23, 1995page4 The Observer • NEWS 

noon to 1 pm in Haggar Parlor. Nekvasil's topic will be

GM workers vote on Rita Week "Women and a Community." 

deal to end strike 
By MIKE McKESSON Associated Press 
FLINT, Mich. 
Workers at a crucial General Motors parts complex over­whelmingly ratified a deal Sun­day to end a four-day strike that forced shutdowns at other GM plants in the United States and Canada. 
The agreement included a GM commitment to hire more than 600 additional workers by mid-1996, and add new prod­ucts to the complex's output, the United Auto Workers said. 
"They were trying to take a lot of your jobs to Mexico ... and we stopped them," UAW negotiator Scott Campbell told cheering workers. 
GM spokesman Dan Dolan confirmed that several hundred new workers will be hired and that the company will invest in new products. However, he would not confirm the specific details released by the union. 
GM said it expected to 
resume parts production dur­
ing the night and reopen the 
idled assembly plants on 
Monday. 
The 6,800 members of UAW 
Wednesday at the AC Delco 

of some of GM's most profitable vehicles, including full-size pickup trucks and sport-utility vehicles. 
Local 651 president Dale LeBeau said 96 percent of the members voting favored the agreement. Vote totals were not released. 
The union had complained that understaffmg and overtime was creating dangerous and unhealthy working conditions. The union also said GM broke an agreement to hire new em­ployees to ease the burden. 
The union said the deal in­
cludes a company commitment 
to spend more than $72 million 
on new product programs at 
the complex through 1998. 
"It's a real good deal," said 
Willie Polk, who has worked at 
the complex 25 years. "If they 
don't abide by what they 
agreed with, we'll walk again." 
Most of the new workers 
would be added by the end of 
the year. GM first will try to 
give jobs to workers laid off 
from its plants at other loca­
tions, then hire entirely new 
employees. 
continued from page 1 

on the second count. He also asked Albright if the prosecu­tion could amend the charge by rephrasing it to include several additional words. Barnes main­tains that the original charge implied an idea it did not ex­press explicitly, and the re­worded count accordingly changes that. Friday's hearing was slated to deal with Asher's objections to the amendment of the charge, and other motions 
ffiedbyAsher. 

The defense attorney had 
asked at the January 4 hearing 
that the second charge be dis­
missed and that the windshield 
of the car Rita was driving be 
suppressed as evidence. At the 
first trial, Albright denied a 
similar request by Asher. 
The witness that Barnes 
wished to question was Ray­
mond Brach, an assistant pro­
fessor of mechanical engineer­
ing at Notre Dame. Brach testi­
fied at the first trial about the 
location of Rita's car and Fox , 
and the exact point of impact. 
No trial date was set at Fri­
day's hearing. 

The South Bend Tribune's Marti Goodlad Heline con­tributed to this report. 
"The Student Academic

continued from page 1 
Council and I specifically chose Women" is a special aerobics 
the 23rd to 28th of January to class which will be led by three 
hold Women's Week because it Saint Mary's students. Stu­
will lead into the Play of the dents will pay $2 at the door, 
Mind Conference, which will be and the proceeds will be sent to 
held at Saint Mary's from the the shelter. Door prizes will be 27th to 29th. awarded throughout the night. 
In addition to the conference this weekend, 'Thelma and Nancy Nekvasil, associate 
Louise' will be showing in professor of biology, will be the 
Carroll Auditorium at 7 pm and keynote speaker during Thurs­
9:30 pm on both Friday and day's Brown Bag Lunch from 
Saturday nights," Peters said. 

r-----~--~~-----~~---------------------,


Th ob
e server 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Applicants should be looking for a great opportunity to gain valuable office and sales experience. Applicants should have strong self-motivation, creativity and an interest in marketing and business. Anyone interested should submit a one page resume to Eric Lorge by 5 p.m. Thursday, January 26 in the advertising office, 3rd floor LaFortune. For more information, contact Eric at 634-1179 or 631-8840. 

•

uddll! I~ havin~ a 
Flint East complex, two facto­ries that make a variety of parts used in many GM cars and trucks. 
As the flow of parts stopped, the company was forced to close all or parts of at least 10 assembly plants. That idled more than 30,000 other work­ers and suspended production 
8-20/30
MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 
1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
[ Otk'ftb'O llairCufdng fu~ 5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 
HOURS: 9 to 8 Sat. 9 to 6 Sun. I 1-5 



HURRY! 
SPACE IS UMITED! 
Prla h:JJd!s routri II*>.,. han~. trnfm/lid 7~!rJtl:l ~b.l!tdooqJ«iocapJCY. r...,..nothcW!d. 
Council Travel 
1153 N, Dearborn, 2nd Aoor Chicago, IL 60610 




311•951•0585 
Call for availability, prices, and other Spring Break destinations. 







''CoacJ-l" Patty! 
Monday Januaty 2gtd 
7:gOr>m-~:gOpm (J:how ~tattJ: at <6prn) 
l=tee Pizza, lemonade, and Po1>cotn fot all. Ptizes given away duting comrnetcials (a Mountain Bike, Pizza Patties, and othet stuff) 
Btaughf to you l>y: The ~tudent Union Boanf, ~tudent Activities & The 1-luddle 
JPW JPW JPW JPW JPW 
A u D I T I 0 N s F 0 R L E c T· 0 R s 
]an. 24th , 4:00p.m . Tuesday ]an. 25th, 4:00p.m. Wednesday 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 

Monday, January 23, 1995 The Observer • EXPLOSIONS IN ISRAEL page 5 
Double bombing kills 19, rescuers also targeted 
By DIANNA CAHN 
Associated Press 
BElT LID JUNCTION, Israel 
A suicide mission by Islamic militants near a snack bar mobbed with soldiers killed 19 Israelis and wounded about 60 Sunday with a gruesome new tactic -igniting a small blast and ambushing would-be res­cuers with a second major ex­plosion. 
The result was a hammer blow to the Israel-PLO peace treaty, already reeling from an unprecedented series of attacks inside Israel. 
President Ezer Weizman pro­posed that Israel stop the peace talks for an extended review before expanding Palestinian self-rule into the West Bank. The president has little power but is looked to as an indicator of the national mood in times of 

NOTRE DAME 1995 COLLEGE BOWL TOURNAMENT 
crisis. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin convened an emergency Cabi­net session Sunday evening to determine the government's response. 
The first step was a complete closure of the occupied territo­ries, blocking the movement of all Palestinians into Israel. It has been the response after each similar attack and has kept tens of thousands of Pales­tinians away from jobs in Is­rael. 
The Cabinet also froze any future release of Palestinian prisoners and the opening of a passage between the PLO-ruled areas of Jericho and Gaza. 
Rabin underscored the deep­ening concern about such car­nage by making his first per­sonal inspection tour of a sui­cide bombing site. 
"There is no doubt in my mind that this actiiln now is an­other attempt by the extreme Islamic terror groups to achieve their dual goal of killing Israelis and halting the peace process," he said. 
Hecklers at the scene shout­ed, "How much longer?" while Rabin toured the devastated site surrounded by jittery body­guards. 
Hundreds of Israelis demon­strated in Jerusalem and at the site of the bombing to protest the attack, shouting "Death to Arabs." About 100 police on horseback used water cannons to disperse about 200 demon­straters at a shopping mall near the blast site. 
"The peace process is a mur­der process," said U.S.-born Jack Schwartz. 
The radical Islamic Jihad or­ganization issued leaflets in both Gaza and in Damascus, Syria, claiming responsibility for the double-barreled suicide mission. 
The Gaza statement said the 

Team registration forms and rules are available at the information desk of the Center for Continuing Education (CCE). Forms are due back to the Center by 5 p.m. on January 25. 1995. Tournament play begins January 28, 1995. 

"Let's play College Bowl!" 


AP 
attack was to avenge the death of Hani Abed, a leader of the military wing whose death was blamed on Israel, and the killing of three Palestinian po­lice shot by IsrA.eli troops ear­lier this month. 
An Islamic Jihad leader said the attack was also to protest Israeli settlements in the West Bank. 
"This operation is the gen­uine retort to the continuous daily expansion of the enemy's settling process in the West Bank and Jerusalem," Fathi Shikaki, secretary-general of the group, said in an interview with Al-Noor radio in Beirut, Lebanon. 
The two suicide attackers were identified as Salah Shakr, 25, from Rafah and Anwar Sukar, 23, from Gaza City, whose father is a Palestinian traffic policemen. 
Outside Sukar's house, Is­lamic activists chanted "Death to America and Israel" and said the bomber would be rewarded in paradise. Clearly distraught relatives cried, spat at the Is­lamic Jihad members and cursed them as "dogs." One threw a flower pot that nar­rowly missed people in the crowd. 
Sukar had been detained briefly by the Palestinian police after the Nov. 11 bicycle bomb­ing by a Islamic Jihad suicide bomber who killed three Israeli officers. 
The brunt of the explosion was taken by a single army company, one of a special unit deployed to guard bus stops, especially on Sundays when they are crowded with troops returning from weekend fur­loughs. Eighteen of the dead were soldiers. 
Kit bags, jackets and the red berets of the elite paratrooper unit, many of them blood­stained, lay scattered among the broken glass and other de­bris after the blast. Victims were groaning and calling for help. Religious medical teams combed the ground and the trees for scattered bits of flesh, since Jewish law requires all body parts to be buried. 
"There was a huge explosion. We came outside and saw ev­erything was charred. As I moved toward the snack bar, I saw body parts, heads, arms, a God-awful scene," said eyewit­ness Haim Hershkovitz. 
Bella Zioni, 42, who owns the snack shop, was inside with her husband and son and at first thought she had been knocked to the floor by an electric shock. 
"By the time. I was able to get up there was another explo­sion. Again, the entire roof col­lapsed and the solar panels fell on me," she said from her hos­pital bed. 
The bombs exploded at the Beit Lid junction, also known as the Sharon junction, near the coastal town of Netanya about 
9:30 a.m. Named after an Arab village that once stood there, it is 18 miles northeast of Tel Aviv and about six miles from the West Bank. 
The blasts occurred across the street from Ashmoret Prison, where Sheik Ahmed Yassin, the spiritual leader of Hamas, has been serving a life sentence since 1989 for order­ing the killing of Israeli infor­mants and other activities against the occupation. 
Officials said the two explo­sions were about three minutes apart. 
Survivors reported a man wearing a uniform doubled over as if to throw up who they believe exploded the first bomb outside the snack bar. When soldiers rushed to see what happened, the second bomb erupted. The tactic was unseen in Israel before. 
The bombs are believed con­structed by a fugitive Pales­tinian chemist and Hamas member named Yehia Ayash, nicknamed "The Engineer." He is believed to have built the bombs in a number of similar attacks, including one in Tel Aviv in October that killed 22 people. 
PLO leader Vasser Arafat's aides said he phoned Rabin to condemn the attack and ex­press his condolences. 




DON'T FORGET! 
~ SEATING ll\tfor JPW tonight! 



MANDATORY 
4pm-9pm 
at the Center for Continuing Education Room 112 There are three families per table. One student must present all three ID's at the time of registration. 


Questions? Call Shannon Kasten at 4-4559 
,...----------­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 23, 1995 
--------~-~---~--------~----------------­

There must be some way_
to avoid doin_g the same thing
for the next fOrty years. 
Life's been pretty good so far. You've kept moving-taken all the right steps along the way (for the most part). And now you're ready for the biggest step. 
You'll be gettingyour degree from a top school. You're about to find a great job. 
The question is: which job? And will it have the potential to interest you for a whole career? 
You've probably heard the story of the job applicant who said he was a shoe salesman with fifteen years expe­rience. "No," corrected the recruiter interviewing him, "you've had six months experience thirty times." 
Isn't there some way to keep challenging yourself in new and 
© 1990 Andersen Consulting, AA & Co., S.C. 
different areas? 
Andersen Consulting offers you the opportunity to work on a variety of projects-with clients in a wide range of industries. 
We are the leader in helping organizations apply information technology to their business advan­tage. Every hour of every business day, we implement a solution to help one of our more than 5,000 clients worldwide. 
What makes that possible is the quality of our people. And the quality ofour training. We're known for both. 
Because business and tech­nology are ever -changing, we see training as a continuing process. And our $123-million Center for Profes-
Andersen Consulting is an equal opportunity employer. 
sional Education in St. Charles, Illinois, is just one measure ofour commitment. We train you for a career-notjust a job. 
Does the idea offorty years of knowing exactly what you'll be doing each week scare you? Then don't settle for that. Demand challenge and variety. Come talk to us. And find out more about a career with Andersen Consulting. 

ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO, S.C. 
Where we go from here!M 
Andersen Consulting will be conducting both full time and summer intern interviews on February 6. Please see Career and Placement Services for details. 
Monday, January 23, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

Survivors struggle in wake of quake 
By DAVID THURBER 
Associated Press 
KOBE, Japan 

Signs of psychological stress, frustration, and a breakdown in the social order for which Japanese society is renowned emerged Sunday among the thousands of survivors of Japan's deadliest quake in over seven decades. The death toll neared 5,000. 
At the Kansai Rosai Hospital in nearby Amagasaki, doctors said many patients were having difficulty breathing at night -a symptom doctors said is com­mon among those suffering delayed stress syndrome. 
"The people think we'll have another big quake," taxi driver Yoshikazu Morimoto said. "Most are very afraid another big one will come. Many people are leaving, and many of them have lost their jobs" because businesses were destroyed. 
For the first time, merchants are complaining about thefts, and on Sunday many of them organized a neighborhood watch system to guard against nighttime pilfering from their shops. 
Five days after the 7.2-magni­

tude quake, Japanese national police said the death toll had risen to 4,936 with 171 still missing. Nearly 26,000 have been injured. 
Doug Copp of the American Rescue Team based in San Francisco said there was a "good possibility" that more survivors could still•be found under the ruins. 
Frustration over the govern­ment's relief operation boiled over into open hostility Sunday during a live, nationally tele­vised hookup between govern­ment officials and survivors. 
"You should have told us or showed us what we could do in such a bad situation," barked one man, abandoning the hon­orific style of speech which Japanese ordinarily use in ad­dressing leaders. 
A teacher noted that volun­teers had gone to Kobe by foot to help survivors. "Why can't officials do the same?" she asked. A high school student told Chief Cabinet Secretary Kozo Igarashi: "I want you guys to do something, not as politi­cians but as human beings, as soon as possible." 
Such public comments are rare in a culture that empha­
political opposition. Former Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, deputy leader of the New Fron­tier Party, said in a speech in northern Japan that lives were lost because the government had no plan "to protect public safety and property when a nat­ural calamity like an earth­quake occurs." 
A strong aftershock shook Kobe overnight. There were no reports of damage or injuries. The aftershock measured 4 on Japan's 7 -point intensity scale. Tuesday's devastating quake measured 7 on that scale. 
As a sign of the dangers fac­ing this once vibrant port city, three people were trapped Sunday when a quake-damaged building collapsed, blocking the entrance to their home. Rescuers carried them to safe­ty. 
.......... ctructu~tlotMittj;maktSIItutbenMCUfld
-~~~--~~~.--­
Heavy rains fell throughout

•• Shott 1.4llhttli'ld!Nt"Ulltllllmlinetloprilofarenc.mglll"ll1.....ng ·-~-,......"""lloooly~llo-. the day. Helicopters flying in 
·~,.,.,._ .........................lor __ 

relief supplies were grounded,
~=IIOidlolllidoog""""'"wti"-~"" 

and the search for 30 people
.,.,..,__.,....,.,.""'·-""'"'·-"'·""· missing in nearby Nishinomiya had to be called off for fear of sizes respect for leaders. "We mud slides. 
want people to believe us," The chilly rain worsened the Igarashi pleaded. "We are do­already horrific conditions for ing our best as human beings." the nearly 300,000 people left Criticism also came from the homeless by the quake. 


Abortion 
rally marks 
•


anniversary 
By RICHARD LORANT 

Associated Press 
Activists on both sides of the abortion debate rallied Sunday across the country to mark the 22nd anniversary of the U.S . Supreme Court decision that gave women the right to an aboriion. 
While leaders condemned violence, the tensions that have flared since the Dec. 30 killings at two Boston-area abortion clinics showed no signs of abat­ing . 
In Boston, two people were arrested for disrupting an an­nual prayer service by Mas­sachusetts Citizens For Life. At least 600 people attended the service, organized to condemn the high court's 1973 decision in Roe vs. Wade. 
Two blocks away, more than 2,000 people attending a rally organized by the National Or­ganization for Women vowed to intensify their fight to keep abortion legal and protect the clinics that provide them. 
"We're not going to be stopped by bullies," NOW Pres­ident Patricia Ireland told the audience. 
In Washington, D.C., about 50 anti-abortion protesters gathered at the church President Clinton usually attends. Some waved white crosses and signs that read: "Excommunicate the Clintons," and "Repent, Clinton." 
The president avoided the fray by attending .a different church. That didn't stop the criticism. 
"We're here to ... say, 'Mr. Clinton, your policies are resulting in the deaths of inno­cent children,"' said Patrick Mahoney, director of the Christian Defense Coalition. 
In Los Angeles, Norma Mc­Corvey, the Jane Roe in Roe vs. Wade, held a news conference to decry the recent violence. 
Before Roe vs. Wade, "We lost millions of women to back­alley abortionists who either left them to die from bleeding to death, or injured them to the point of leaving them childless forever," she said. 
McCorvey, an abortion clinic worker in Dallas, said the vio­

lence  has  prompted  many  
women  to  cancel  appoint­ 
ments.  

"I wondered to myself when I take these calls, 'what would happen to the husbands and children of these women if they were to be gunned down for coming in for a regular pap smear or pregnancy test?"' she said. 
The call for peace has been growing louder since two re­ceptionists were killed at sepa­rate clinics in Brookline, suburban Boston. John C. Salvi III, 22, of Hampton, N.H., has been charged with murder. 
Interested in Writing for or joining the Staff of 



Science Quarterly? 
call Kristin at 1-57 57 




VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, January 23, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters 
Managing Editor John Lucas 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Aa:ent Editor............................... Mary Good Photo Editor....................... Scott Mendenhall Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan 

Business Manager Joseph Riley 
Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Production Manager : ................. Jacqueline Moser Systems Mrutager ............................ Sean Gallavan Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Controller ..................................... Kristen Manina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper publi}hed by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. I< does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those: of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through \etters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor /Production General Information 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Observer Phone Lines 

631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900I 8840  
631-4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  E-Mail  Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
631-7471  Unix  observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  


More financial aid means higher tuition 
The most touching present I received this Christmas was a personalized, first­name invitation from the Executive Vice­President, Father Beauchamp, asking me to join the Sorin Society, which con­sists of thos~ who "make an unrestricted annual investment of one thousand dol­lars or more" in the University. Benefits include "regional meetings and lun­cheons," the President's newsletter, Notre Dame Magazine, and "honorary membership in the University Club." If I popped for $3,000, I could join the Society's Founder's Circle and receive also a "quarterly compendium" of arti­cles on Notre Dame, the "Notre Dame: Year in Review" video. the University's Annual Fiscal Report, an "ombudsman service" to assist with hotel reservations and "tickets to non-athletic events," and "parking assistance for select home Notre Dame football games." 
Obviously. this personal invitation could not have come because I hap­pened to be on some mailing list. No­this was finally recognition that I am a somebody, worthy of inclusion in the inner circle. I was flattered and felt a rush of self-esteem and self-actualiza­tion. 
But then reality intruded. If our lead­ers are digging so deep as to make this Sorin pitch to a guy like me, Notre Dame must be in worse shape than I thought. On the other hand, the President, Father Malloy, reported that "the 1993-94 fiscal year closed with positive results." "This positive financial result," he said, "goes against the grain of the general climate in American higher education which is characterized by retrenchment, budget deficits, deferred maintenance and frozen salary scales ....." More parents seem unwilling to pay the costs of pri­vate education at the undergraduate level. There is a comparable resistance to incur the costs of non-subsidized tuition at the professional school and graduate levels." 
Notre Dame Is not likely to remain 
unaffected for long by those national trends. A few days after my self-esteem was raised by the Sorin invitation, two New York Times articles highlighted the precarious position of American univer­sities. A front-page analysis on Christmas noted that "increasingly dis­count merchandising is coming to acad­emia." Some colleges are offering four years for the price of three, or a tuition-


Charles Rice 

free fifth year or other discounting devices. According to Robert Zemsky, director of the Institute for Research in Higher Education at the University of Pennsylvania, "the whole price structure of higher education, particularly in the private sector, is collapsing, and there will be a lot of what might be called novel experiments in the years to come. The market is trying to, in a larger sense, clear, and find out the real price the public is willing to pay for higher education." 
"Experts say," notes the Times article, that "at least fouJr factors have put high­er education in its current bind. The first is that the cost of a college educa­tion has grown far faster than the Consumer Price Index and personal income. Second, the pool of applicants is declining or stagnant. Third, the public is increasingly skeptical and cost con­scious. . . Fourth, the competition for top students is increasing." 
The average tuition, room and board package at four-year private colleges is $18,784. At Notre Dame it is $21,000 this year, which is lower than most of the universities Notre Dame strives to imitate. Mr. Zemsky notes that "proba­bly fewer than 35 universities in the country have a reputation or market niche so secure that they are largely immune from the pressure to discount tuition." However, it is fair to ask for how long Notre Dame's own market niche can remain secure. It has already priced itself out of the reach of most of its former middle class constituency. And the Catholic character on which its reputation ·and niche had been founded has become protestantized and secular­ized through a rejection of institutional loyalty to the teaching Church. 
The second Times article, an op-ed by David Lipsky on December 29th, explained the origin of the national problem. The federal Guaranteed Student Loan Act of 1965 had strict income limits and by the mid-1970s few students had used it. In 1978, however, largely in response to pressure from universities, President Carter signed the Middle Income Student Assistance Act. That Act removed the income restric­tions, so that, as Lipsky says, "A Kennedy kid could qualify for a guaran­teed loan almost as easily as a Katzenjammer kid." However, as Fortune magazine warned, "Anything that makes it easier to pay tuition bills will also make it easier to raise tuition charges." The main beneficiaries of the Act are the universities and the banks: "Although the babyboom generation was very big, the 'baby bust' generation­kids born from about 1964 to 197S-is very small. So colleges, which had expanded, have charged students more money, subsidized by Federal loans. As for banks, student loans are more prof­itable than home mortgages and car loans. Since the Government is a co­signer, it must make good on bad loans, immediately." In 1992 the student loan default rate was 22 percent, twice what it was in 1977. President Clinton's pro­posed $10,000 tax deduction for tuition, and similar proposals, incidentally, would enhance the ability of the univer­sities to raise tuition. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESSURY 


r 
r f f ~ .. 
The 1978 Act coincided with the start of the O'Meara provost · ·ip, in which Notre Dame has sought • ognition as a "national Catholic research university" and has more than doubled its tuition, in real dollars, over what it was in 197 8. Notre Dame, like other universities, has used the federal loan program as a lever to expand its plant and pursue research greatness while shifting the cost to its students through the ex~ ~tion of tuition at multiples of the i nation rate. According to an April, 19<J4, survey, the average graduate of Notre Dame Law School will have between forty and sixty thousand dollars in educational debt. Many law students, to my knowledge, have much more, with some over $100,000. It is a safe assumption that the indebtedness of undergraduates would present a comparable picture on a lower scale. It is immoral for the University to finance its pursuit of research prestige by compelling non­wealthy students to assume heavy loan obligations which deny them genuine freedom in choosing careers and start­ing families. 
Notre Dame's unique reputation and "market niche" have so far preserved it from the crisis affecting most universi­ties. But market limits are inexorable. Notre Dame's market niche was built on solid undergraduate education in the authentic Catholic tradition. If the deval­uation of that unique character contin­ues, the market will expose both the loss of our "niche" and the immoral folly of the money-driven race for prestige in which we have engaged for decades. 
Maybe it was a premonition of these prospects that prompted Father Beauchamp to solicit even people like me to join the Sorin Society. I would like ,to join. Perhaps I could apply for financial aid to make it possible. Maybe there's even a federal loan program ... 
Professor Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday . 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''Jf Karl, instead of writing a lot about capital, had made a lot more of it, it would have been much better." 
-Karl Marx's Mother 
• 

-



ACCE,NT
Monday, January 23, 1995 
• RANDOM MEANDERINGS 
~Da Hook Up, 
My family has never had and will never have cable. While many people in my position would have long since taken to heavy drinking and hurling produce at passers-by, I have learned to cope with my deficiency. There arc a few entertaining stations that my television Jenny Shank receives without cable. The Accem Columnist Spanish channel, for instance. My favorite show is "Sabado Gigante." This show has something for everyone! In one evening of "Sabado Gigante" viewing, I can watch comedy, drama, dancing, singing, produce destruction ala Gallagher, and plenty of live animals cavorting. The host of "Sabado Gigante" serves as a talk­show host, game-show host, wild animal train­er, and plumber. 
We get a few Christian networks, too. One of the stations shows a round-the-clock heal-a­them, but the programming on the other is more varied. One night I was lucky enough to catch "Gospel Jams." Happer A.K. S.W.I.F.T. (Salvation Will Indeed Feel Terrific) entertained me as he instructed me to "give it up for the B-I­B-L-E!" The music sounded suspiciously similar to Naughty By Nature's "Hip-llop Hooray," exeept that instead of singing "Hey Ho" the baek-up singers sang "Praise God." Unfortunately, "Gospel Jams" soon ended, and al'ler the host, D.O.C. (Disciple Of Christ) doffed his "Absalom" hat and instructed the viewers to "give it up for the rnal G," I changed the chan­nel. 
I flipped to PBS just in time to catch "The Star llustler." Everyone who has never seen this program is seriously missing out. The Hustler, a portly, aged, squirrely gentleman tells the viewers about constellations that will "really knock your socks ofn" He does a little jig down a path of stars to begin the program, winking all the while. lie is accompanied by the theme music which has a Yanni-meets-Greenday feel to it. As the show progresses, the llustter's eyes grow larger, and his gesticulations become more varied and intense. One cannot help but be caught up in his astronomical fervor. The Star Hustler has, in fact, won an award from the National Association of Astronomy-! think it was "Best Hustler of Stars." After the Hustler is done talking about constellations, he jigs down another path of stars to an Enya-meets­Hage Against The Machine melody until his lime-green pantsuit disappears from sight. 
I thank my lucky stars that I was watching TV at 2:30 a.m. one night when I flipped to channel 
59. It seems that this particular station is a Spanish channel during the day, but at night it's turned over to "Da Hook Up." "Da Hook Up," in case you ·haven't heard, showcases "urban­alternative" music, which basically is bad, local rap. The show cut to a commercial from some store, whose name escapes me, but I know it was called something spelled with a K that should have been spelled with a C, like Korduroy or Kucumber. This store was located on the Denver street where one is most likely to come across ladies of' questionable virtue, and it advertised itself as "the store for all of your needs," including music, skateboards, snow­boards, live animals, duct tape, and spray paint for all of those budding young urban-alternative artists out there. 
"Da !look Up" soon resumed and the hosts were spinnin' some fly hooks when they announced that the show was giving away free passes to a preview of John Singleton's "Higher Learning." I, of course, was on the phone faster than you can say "D-O-Double G-Y D-O-Double G, you see," and I won tickets! I was amazed by my incredible luck, but one of my friends informed me that I was likely the only person in Denver watching "Da Hook Up" at 2:30 in the morning. She was probably just jealous, though. The preview was at a movie theater in a very, urn, urban-alternative part of town. My friend informed me that someone was shot in front of that theater last month. She was proba­bly just jealous, though. I went to the movie after I found a friend willing to enter that area of Denver with me after dark, and let me tell you, there's nothing like taking in a good gang­ster flick when you're surrounded by real, live gangsters! 
" • " • photo courtesy of Saint Mary's PubliC Relations 
Su.burbs of the Subconsc1ence, a collection of works by artist, Pamela DeMarris can be seen at MoreauGalleries from now until February 17. 
Demarris' photographs showcase dissilusionment and expectation 
By PATTI CARSON Accent Writer 
It is no ordinary photography. In fact, it is quite uncommon. It is the photography of Pamela DeMarris on display now in the Moreau Galleries at Saint Mary's. 
The exhibit, "Suburbs of the Subconscious," opened Friday, January 20 and runs through February 17. 
It is an exhibit of color photographs which feature subjects bathed in warm colors of light so that the view­er may explore the work closely. 
The scenes presented in the pic­tures are fabricated ones. 
They are scenes of adults and chil­dren playing reversed roles, which alludes to the role that dis­illusionment and expectations play in society today, according to Saint Mary's Public Relations. 
DeMarris' art background is exten­sive. 
DeMarris received her bachelor of arts and also her master's degrees at Thomas Edison State College in New Jersey. 
She also studied at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Rhode Island School of Design, according to Saint Mary's Public Relations. 
Her talent has been recognized in that DeMarris was the 1993-94 recip­ient of the National Endowment for the Arts Visual Arts Fellowship/Arts Midwest Award. 
Her pho­tographs have also appeared in various publica­tions from New Art Examiner and Arts Indiana to Elle. 
Her work also has a permanent home in places like New York Cify's John Labbe Collection and in Muncie, Indiana's Ball Memorial Hospital. 
DeMarris' work can also be found in Bescia, Italy as an exhibit at the Museo Ken Damy Di Fotografia Contemporanea, acccording to Saint Mary's Public Relations. 
Her photogra­phy is displayed in America as 

. f%1-­
SaintMary's College 
NOTRE DAME·· INDIANA 
The Moreau Galleries Moreau Center for the Arts 219-284-4655 
Suburbs ofthe Subconscious: Photographs by Pamela De Marris 
January 20-February 17, 1995 
Opening Rece,Ption: Friday, January 20, 1995 7-9pm 
Gallery Hours: Tuesday-Friday lOam-Noon & l-4pm Saturday lOam-Noon, Sunday l-3pm 
well as abroad. '----------,C"""o--;l,-o_r_a-:d-o-an---,d-t,..,.h-e---=c,_a-m-e-r-a___,C=-=I-u"7"b---Jof 
But aside from having permanent homes in several places, DeMarris' work is also displayed in galleries like Galleria Pesaro in Pesaro, Italy and in the Art Institute Hamidrasha in Jaffa, Israel. 
Galerie Viviane Esders in Paris, France also exhibits her photogra­phy. 
Here at home in the States, the Darkroom Gallery in Denver, 
New York in New York City exhibit her work, according to Saint Mary's Public Relations. 
Viewers may see the exhibit during gallery hours, Tuesday through Friday, from 10 a.m. to noon and 1 
p.m. to 4 p.m. 
The gallery also has weekend hours for those who wish to view the work this esteemed artist. 
......-------~--------·~·-------­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 23, 1995 
• COLLEGE BASKETilALI. ROUN!'.l·IJP
-


'Nova hangs on, down Hoyas; Tar Heels romp 
By JOHN F. BONFATil "I think we did a good job getting the of 14 points and seven rebounds last two free throws with 15 seconds Associated Press ball in the middle, then getting it out. year against Rhode Island. Her 14. first­remaining. But Maurice Taylor's And when I got open. they found me." half points against Maryland led North attempt at a 3-pointer from the right
PHilADELPHIA 
Jerome Williams, who went scoreless Carolina to a 47-32lead at the break. corner went off the rim with 5 seconds 
A 17-point lead at halftime seemed in the first half, fueled Georgetown's Three straight baskets by Jackson left and the Spartans got the rebound. like a pretty comfortable cushion until 
second-half rally with 13 points. But two midway through the second half keyed a Michigan State, the only Big Ten team Villanova coach Steve Lappas began 
free throws by Jason Lawson, who fin­12-2 North Carolina run that put the Tar shooting better than 50 percent, shot a considering the opposition. 
ished with 14 points, and a 3-pointer by Heels ahead 78-56 with 7:26 to play. torrid 73.7 percent in the second half, "Georgetown is one of the top 10 Kerry Kittles with 1:30 left helped the due mainly to Respert's 9-of-11, and teams in the country," he said. "We 
Wildcats seal the victory. No. 12 Michigan St. 73, Michigan 54.5 percent for the game. The Spartansknew they'd come back at us and it Othella Harrington led Georgetown also hit 18-of-25 free throws. 
71would be a 5-6 point game." with 21 points. The Hoyas committed 24 Michigan, shooting 45 percent, got 18
I ANN ARBOR, Mich. I The Hoyas did rally, drawing within fouls and hit only 3-of-16 from three­Shawn Respert scored 30 of his 33 points from Ray Jackson and 17 from two points with 4 minutes to play, but
I point range. points in the second half Sunday as No. freshman Maurice Taylor, who had to be I Lappas was right. Villanova hung on for Williams hit for 7 of the Hoyas' 12 helped to the dressing room with a
12 Michigan State took over first place
I a 66-60 victory Sunday afternoon over points during a 12-2 run early in the bump on his head at the same time
in the Big Ten with a 73-71 victory over
I 
No. 10 Georgetown. 

second half that brought Georgetown to Michigan. Respert limped off with the sore foot. It was the second straight Big East loss 45-42. Villanova helped the Hoyas' Fife scored 11 points, helping
f Michigan State's victory snapped a
for Georgetown (12-3, 5-2). which 
comeback by making just two of 12 four-game losing streak against the Michigan to a 35-30 halftime lead, but played without freshman sensation Allen 
shots to start the second half. Wolverines. never scored again for the Wolverines
~ Iverson for all but 10 minutes in the first The Wildcats used two runs to build a The Spartans (12-2, 4-1 Big Ten) who were outrebounded 31-28. half. 38-21 halftime lead. The 21 points was hadn't beaten Michigan since Respert Jud Heathcote, in his 19th and final Iverson, avererging 20.3 points, the fewest in a half for Georgetown this was a freshman, playing against the Fab season as Spartans' coach, was makingsprained his right ankle in last week's season. Ahead 12-11 with 11:25 to play his last courtside appearance at Crisler
Five when they all were freshmen.
loss to Connecticut. He was limping in the half. Villanova went on a 12-0 Michigan (10-7, 4-2) fell into a second­Arena. He is 17-20 against the slightly when he played, but still man­spurt in the next 3 minutes, with Haynes place tie with Illinois and Minnesota in Wolverines. Michigan coach Steve aged to hand out five assists before 
getting five of the points. Fisher presented Heathcote with a tele­
the conference. 
Georgetown coach John Thompson took Respert has scored in double figures in vision in a pregame ceremony. 
him out for good. 

No. 3 North Carolina 88, Maryland his last 57 straight games, since the
"It was bothering him," Thompson 
67 Wolverines held him to seven points Oklahoma St. 85, No. 16 Missouri 
said. "Allen's game is transition and he CHAPEL HILL, N.C. Feb. 2, 1993. 70didn't pass anybody today." 
Reserve Tonya Jackson had career Respert, the Big Ten's leading scorer STILLWATER, Okla.
The Hoyas closed to 54-52 with 4 min­highs of 22 points and nine rebounds with a 25.5 average, limped off with Bryant Reeves controlled the inside utes to play-and Iverson, who finished Sunday, leading third-ranked, undefeat­1:2 6 left in the first half, shortly after and Randy Rutherford stung Missouriwith 2 points, stayed on the bench. 
ed North Carolina to an 88-67 victory scoring his first basket. He was favoring from long range, leading Oklahoma"I'd would have loved to have put him over Maryland. his right foot. State to a 85-70 victory over the 16th­in when we cut it to four, that's how bad North Carolina's Charlotte Smith had But he returned to start the second ranked Tigers Sunday. 
it was hurting him," said Thompson, 20 points and a game-high 12 rebounds half and soon dominated the game, Reeves scored 28 points and
who demanded that signs in the 
for her ninth double-double. Marion erasing a 38-30 Michigan lead. Rutherford 23, including five 3-pointers,Spectrum referring to Iverson as a con­Jones scored 19 points and had a game­Respert, the Big Ten's leading 3-point as the Cowboys (12-6, 2-1 Big Eight) vict be removed before he would play high eight assists, while Gwendolyn shooter, had three 3s and a three-point ended Missouri's streak of 13 straightthe game. 
Gillingham had 10 points and three play while reeling off a string of six regular-season road victories. The
"You expect certain ribbing, but there blocks for the Tar Heels. straight baskets for the Spartans. His Tigers (13-3, 2-2) also had won eightis a line," Thompson said. 
Smith's 1,002 career rebounds made driving layup after a steal tied the score straight conference road games. 
Iverson, Virginia's high school basket­her the fourth Tar Heel woman to top 48-48 with 11:15 left in the game and Paul O'Liney and Jason Sutherlandball and football player of the year in the 1,000 mark. his 3-point shot with 10:15 remaining each scored 22 for Missouri, which1992, was convicted of maiming by mob North Carolina is 18-0 overall and 6-0 gave the Spartans the lead for good, 51-never led after Rutherford's secondfollowing a 1993 brawl at a bowling in the Atlantic Coast Conference, and 48. jumper gave the Cowboys a 6-4 lead inalley. Then-Gov. Douglas Wilder granted has won 32 consecutive games over two Michigan's defense, led by Jimmy King the opening minutes. 
him conditional clemency after Iverson seasons. and Dugan Fife, tightened on Respert, O'Liney scored 11 straight during one
served nearly four months at a work 
Maryland fell to 9-8, 1-5 with its third who made it 63-54 when he scored the stretch in the second half when Missouri farm. 
straight loss to North Carolina. Spartans' last basket with 6:38 left. cut a 10-point deficit to 59-54 with 7:26
Jonathan· Haynes had 21 points, 
Freshman Sonia Chase led the Michigan State held off the Wolverines remaining. But then the Tigers wentincluding 4-of-7 from three-point range, Terrapins with 17 points. Freshman the rest of the way from the free throw more than four minutes without a field to lead Villanova (11-5, 4-2). He credited Stephanie Cross had 15 points and nine line, sinking nine straight during one goal and were outscored 13-2, with smart ball rotation for giving him open rebo-unds. Nina Ohman and Karon stretch, including seven by Respert. Reeves getting seven points.
shots. 

Ferguson each had 10 for Maryland. The Wolverines had one last chance to victory with a 3-pointer from the right
"As a team, when they switched 
Jackson, a junior, had previous highs tie it or win it after Eric Snow missed baseline with 2:29 to go.
defenses, we reacted well," Haynes said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES  Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Oceanview Room with a Kitchen  FOR RENT  For Sale: Sansui Reciever, Technics 5-disc CD player, and  FOOD FOOD  FOOD  To the girls of P.E. who initiated the snow war,  
$1291 Walk to best bars! Includes  three way JVC speakers. All in per­ CLUB 23  We rock.  
Free Discount Card which will save  HOMES FOR RENT  teet condition. $500 or best offer­ KITCHEN OPEN 8-3  
SEMESTER JOB  you $100 on food/drinks! 1-800­ NEAR CAMPUS  call X0640  
earn up to $1 0/hr  678-6386  232-2595  Anybody who is interested in going  
call 289-0704  AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS!  to the P.E. SYR, give the match­ 
Apts. in student occupied 3-llat,  AT&T Cordless Phone, 2 yr waran­ maker a call at x4571  
happy birthday to you...  SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for  heat included.  tee, used one semester-for sale at  The Widow Ranter still needs per­ 
happy birthday to you.. .  many positions (including summer).  •Large 1 bedrm-$300  good price-for info. call Melissa at  formers for its cast. Anyone with  
happy birthday dear Joan ...  Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits  •small, furnished 1 bedrm-$260  #1318  any interest at all should come to  ROSES ARE RED  
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO YOU!  (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal  755 South Bend Ave.-1 blk west of  auditions on Monday, January 23.  VIOLETS ARE BLUE  
And believe you me...it gets better!  discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc­ ND Ave. deposit, 1-800-582-9320  They will be in 284 Nieuwland at  THE OBSERVER HAS A  
si ned .... ."Mr. Loverman" . LOST & FOUND  tors, lift operators, wait staff, chalet staff, + other positions. For more information call:(206)634-0469  For Rent Responsible couple or single per­ TICKETS  7:00 p.m. If this time and date are a problem, contact James Glazier at631-4010. Performance dates  SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  
ext.V55842  son to rent a 2 story home. 2bd up,  5 Duke GA's 4 sale. x3747. Leave a  are March 2 and 4.  approaching and now is the time to  

 dwn: LR, DR, Kit & 1 bth. No pets.  message, will be back from DC  place a classified ad for your valen­ 
WANTED  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working  Super clean. Ready to move in. Ref Req. 1302 Clover St. SB 289-8818  Tuesday AM.  AUDITIONS! AUDITIONS!  tine. All Valentine's Day ads will appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ classified section of The Observer  
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Oakhill Condo for RENT  NEED 2 TIX FOR THE KENTUCKY  on Tuesday, February 14.  
-­ Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  for the 1995-1996 school year.  BASKETBALL GAME ON FEB. 12.  David Mamet's  
1 {800)359-9808  Seasonal and full-time employment  For information call: 273-9438.  CALL ERIN AT #4015  AMERICAN BUFFALO  You may place your classified  
available. No experience neces­ Directed by Stephen Susco  Monday through Friday from Sam to  
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $2791 Includes 12  sary. For more information call 1­206-634-0468 ext. C55842  FOR SALE  I need two tickets for the Kentucky  February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm Washington Hall Mainstage  3pm. We are located on the third floor of Lafortune. Place your ad  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  basketball game. Call x4015 if you  Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at  now and beat the rush!  
Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  Computer Monitor-Acer-IBM  have some!! II!  the LaFortune Information Desk  
Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  TWINS! LAW STUDENTS NEED  Compatible-Brand New-$200­ Produced by the Notre Dame  
Air & Hotel From $429! Spring  ENERGETIC AND RESPONSIBLE  Jim 4-1059  Student Players  Brian McCandless got a job at  
Break Travel 1-800-678-6386  STUDENT TO PROVIDE CHILD  $$$$ NEED KENTUCKY GAME  •• note : play contains harsh pro­ Boeing. How is your search going?  
CARE IN HOME 10-15 HRS!WK  Car-Buick Skyhawk'84, low  TIX. CALL MIKE @277-1704 $$$$  fanity and some vio\enVadu\1  Love,  
TO 3 YR OLD BOYS. GREAT  mileage, good co,ldition, $ 1699,  themes  The Company  
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots! PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW  WAGES. 1 WKEND NT. REO'D. EDUC MJR PREPD.272-4649  call Francois at 2345716  PERSONAL  Kidde,  
ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291  OAKH\LL CONDOMINIUM offered  HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY, LAND  Nothing witty tonight, just  
WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa  HELP  at $85,900. First Floor location.  3 HOT MEN are cordially invited to  ANDERSON!  hope your enjoying the warmth.  
Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  COMUTEA BLUES  Finished basement with full lavato­ attend POP FARLEY 95 with  • An lllinios Farmer  
Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  ibm compat. 486/50 w/ cd  ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths  3 UNFORGETTABLE WOMENII  A salute (you know what I mean) to  
$1591 Key West $229! Daytona  need sound hooked to cd  on ground level. Lease back to  Please send resumes to 143 Farley  L5C2 and the men of 3C, cause it is  Want to trade or sell Earthworm Jim  
Room with Kitchen From $1291 1­ & basic tutoring  owner through May, 1995.  or call X4083 by Tues. Creativity is  the place to be.  for Super Nintendo.  Call Greg (the  
800-678-6386  alterS, jim  Call (616) 946-0700.  essential!  Finger  Wolf) at 4-2187  

Monday, January 23, I995 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
BALLET -Instruction based on traditional Russian tech­nique. Introduction to all levels with students being instructed according to their level. Semester-long course that meets Tuesdays from 6:30-7:30 PM and Saturdays from 10:00 AM-noon in Rockne Rm. 301. The fee is $35.00 and you must register in advance at RecSports. A demonstration will be held on Sunday, January 29 at 12:30 PM in Rockne 301. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more info. 
X-COUNTRY BEGINNER SKI CLINICS -The clinics will be held on the Notre Dame Golf Course and the cost for each clinic is $5.00 with equipment rental available for $2.00 addi­tional. The clinics are January 25 at 4:30 PM-deadline is January 23; January 28 at 
11:00 AM-deadline January 26; 

RecSport . PLAYER BOARD I 

~: The PLAYER BOARD is used for persons ;nten!Sted in invidual sports who are having trouble finding opponents. 
Will!: Any N.D. Faculty, Staff or Student. 
~: Help in finding partners in the sport of your choice. 
WHEN: Thats's up to you! Call the RecSport Issue Room at 631-5267 for court reservations. 
WHERE: At any available court space. See your friendly 
~,.,...,.m '""""'"'' '" • ""'""'"""fi'l·~m 
*THE RecSport PLAYER BOARD IS LOCATED THE WALL NEXT TO THE RecSport OFFICE. ....v,T.u.;" INTO THE OFFICE FOR YOUR OWN FORM. ** IF YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS REGARDING THE PLAYER BOARD PLEASE CALL 631-6100. 
February 4 at 2:00PM-deadline February 2. Register in advance at RecSports. For more info call 1-6100. 
DOWNHILL SKI TRIP -RecSports is planning a down­hill ski trip for Friday, January 27 at Swiss Valley. Bus leaves the library circle at 5:00 PM and returns at 11:00 PM. The cost is $27.00 if you need to rent skis and $18.00 if you do not. Beginner lessons available free of charge. Register and pay in advance at RecSports. Deadline is January 25. For more info call RecSports at 1­6100. 
LATE-NIGHT OLYMPICS ­Late-Night Olympics is an all­night sports extravaganza of competing Notre Dame and Saint Mary's residence halls. All proceeds raised from this event are donated to the St. Joseph County chapter of Special Olympics. The date is Friday, February 3, but all teams must register by Monday, January 30. For the name of your hall representative, call 
RecSports at 1-6100. 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS -Rentals are avail­able to students, faculty and staff. Rent skis, boots and poles. No reservations neces­sary. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday and Sunday and 11:00 AM-2:00 

1. Student Rates Available 
2. Stairmaster, Exercise bikes & treadmills 
3. No membership fee 
WALKING DISTANCE FROM NOTRE DAME CAMPUS (Next to Turtle Creek on SR 23) 
Call for Class Schedule or Information 
277--2974 
-..

·~·lml···­
__... -.· ' 
C~/h~-~ 
-~ 
1803 South Bend Ave. 
C\liJn 
Campua Shoppes Plaza 
277-2874 Not .-lid wttllany oilier oller. Now•-only.
IIIII 
PM on Saturday. For rates and 
more info call the Golf Shop at 
1-6425 or RecSports at 1-6100. 
BENGAL BOUTS training oc­
curs daily at 4:00 PM at the 
JACC. Anyone interested 
should please contact Jeff 
Goddard at 287-8041. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Mandatory meeting on 
Wednesday the 25th at 7:30. 
Room to be announced. Bring 
dues and insurance forms. Any 
questions call Molly at 287­
7353 or Erin at 4-2770 
NOVICE AND VARSITY 
CREW -There will be a meet­
ing Tuesday night at 7:30 in 
126 Debartolo 
EQUESTRIAN TEAM -meet­
ing for all new members 
Monday the 23rd at 8pm in 
room 222 Hesburgh Library. 
Any questions call4-1383. 
CLIMBING WALL -The 
climbing wall will be open for 
use beginning Sunday, January 
22. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursday from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall if locating in the Rockne Memorial and anyone 
· interesting in using it has to complete an orientation ses­sion. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS MISS-A-MEAL -sign-up in the dining halls at dinner on Monday, January 23 and Tuesday. January 24. By sign­ing up you agree not to eat din­ner on Wednesday, February 1. For each meal missed, the Notre Dame Food Services will make a donation to the Special Olympics. For more info about Late Night Olympics call RecSports at 1-6100. 
Only $1,770. Or abo11l $33. a month.' 


636 81250 with CD·RO~ Apple' Color Plus 14" Display, AaJ{eDesign" f(eyfJOarri and rtrouse. 
Only $4, 700. Or abo111 $87. a month. t 

Power Maeintosh" 

8100/80 81500, Apple' Muilip/e Scan 17 Display, AppleDesign" Keyboard andmouse. 
Beforeyou needto make asingle payment, 7,776,000 secondswill have passed, the baseball strike may finallyCQme to anend and the term"GenerationX"will have beenused one too manytimes. 
BUY AN APPLE MACINTOSH NOW. PAY FOR IT LATER: erals without making asingle payment for 90 days: Combine that with no hassles, 
We're not just making it easier for you to buy aMacintosh; we're making it easier no complicated forms and already great student pricing, and the easy-to-use for you to buy something else you really need-time. Because for alimited Macintosh is now incredibly easy to buy. The Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day time, with the Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan, you can Deferred Payment Plan. The solution that gives you the Ap .1 .. own a Macintosh personal computer, printer, CD-ROM drive or other periph-power every student needs. The power to be your best~ p1e­
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
'Deferred Apple Compuler liJan offer expires February 17, 1995. No payment ofInterest or principal wut be requiredfor 90 days. (Some rese//ers may require adep&it to bold merchandise while loan Is bel"'! aJPrOtoed) htterest accruing duri"'llhls 90-day period wut be added to prindpal, and the principal amount, liS so increased, will thereafter bear Interest which will be indudl?d in tbe repayment schedule. 'Montb/y paymenlls an estimate basalon the follouing lnformotlon: For the Power Madntosh 8100 system shoum here, apurchase price of14.935, which indudes 5% sales tax; inc/udi"'l loan fees, the total loan amount is $5,222.22, which results In amonlb/ypayment obligationof$87. For the Ferformo 636 CD system shown here, apurchase price of$1,85850, which Includes 5% sales tax; inc/ud/"11 loanfees, the total loan amount is $1,966.67, which results In amonlbly payment obligation of$13. Computer S)~lem prices, loan amounts andsales taxes may mry. See your authorizedApple Campus Reseller or representalit'f!for CJJrrent sysh!m prices, loan <mdtax amounts. loans arefor amitt/mum ofII.OOO to amaximum of110.000. lfJu 
may take out more than one loan, but the total ofaU loans camzot exceed $10,000 annually. A55% loan origination fee will be added to the requested. loan amount. 7be Interest rate Is mrlable, basalon /be rommerctalpaper rote plus 5J5'K. For the month ofNwember, 1994, the interest rote was 10.85% with an Annual Perr.entage Rate of12.10%. 8-year loan term uitb no prepaymenlpenaliy. 1be monthly paymenl and tbe Annual Fermi/age 1/ate shown assume the 90-day deferment ofprincipal andinterest described above and no other deferment ofprincipal or interest. Students may defer principal payments up to 4years, or untilgraduation. Deferment will chanp your monthly payments. The Apple Computer liJan is subject to cr~dit approval. Apple Computer Loan and 90-Day Deferred Payment Plan offers available only to qualify/"'I students, faCJJity and staff Offers ami/able only ]rom ){pie or an authorizedApple CampliS Resel/er or represenlallve. ©1994 Apple Computer; Inc. All tights resmm Apple, the Apple logo, Macintvsh, Performo and "7be power to beyour besl" are registered lrrldemarils ofApple CampuJer, Inc. AppleDes/gn andPower Macintosh are lrrldemarks ofApple Computer, Inc. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS January, Monday 23, 1995 
• SAINT MARY's il~sw:ua;;u. 


Franklin survives Rabbit attack 
By SHARI MATElSKI Spons Writer 
With five weeks of rest and holiday celebration, the Saint Mary's basketball team (3-9) is on the up and coming. The tal­ent of this team is not in ques­
tion,  rather it is  the  com­ 
petition.  
Saint  Mary's  faces  their  

toughest schedule since basket­ball began, according to coach Marvin Wood. Franklin college now stands at 16-1 after defeating the Belles Sunday evening. The score of 85-51 is very successful for Saint Mary's considering Franklin's record. 
The "Rabbits" showed tremendous effort in today's game. Starter Julie McGill feels the rabbits equally as impor­tant as the starters. They are sent in usually eight minutes after the first half to throw off the opposing team by getting in their face, and destroying their concentration with short bursts of energy. Kristen Ross, Michele Limb, Marianne Banko, Kate Kozacik, and Colleen Andrews comprise this integral force of the team's success. Last night 7. 5 minutes were given to the rabbits and they responded with true ability and 
Hurry! 
Only 2 Houses Left! 
•4 
and 5 Bedroom 

•Security
Systems 

•Fully 
Furnished 


287-4989 
Pat McKelvey $100 OFF 
First month's rent with this ad 


LSAT• 

..:.--­

drive. 
Coach Wood commented, " I 
saw these group of girls at their 
best tonight. They proved their 
worth and ability once again." 
Ten points were scored by 
the Rabbits in the 7.5 minutes 
of their playing time against the · starters of the opposing team. 
Jennie Taubenheim led the 
team with sixteen total points. 
Julie McGill accounted for 
twelve points in the game, and 
Sarah Kopperud followed with 
six points. 
Coach Wood had all positive 
comments about his team, 
"They all give 110% in practice, and even more on the court in competition." 
"In our division, and at col­lege level basketball each school is equal in their choice of athletes," said coach Wood. "Some school's size may deter­mine success, but we are for the most part equal in what we have to play with. Some of the best athletes at college may not even be on the field, courts, or track." 
"Franklin was a very physical team with extreme support from their fans," said McGill. 

Looking for a place to stay during: r~ Junior Parents Weekend? r~ Graduation Weekend? r~ April Stud. Activity Events? r~ Ho:me Football Games? 
Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates •Fully Equiped 1Gtchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•
Accomodates up to 14 


Available to Show by Appointment Call Helenfor More Information @ 219 287-8163 


LaSalle 
continued from page 16 
"Kari and Mollie had a great game," Coach McGraw said, "They were running the ball well in transition." 
Peirick's strength on offense also includes her ability to han­dle the ball and make good passes. 
"Mollie is a control type of guard, "McGraw said, "She sees the floor well. Her great­est strength is that she is lowest in turnovers." 
At the half, Notre Dame led by only one point, but a 7-0 run sparked by a Hutchinson lay up and a Peirick three pointer opened up the lead. Three minutes later. Poor and Bowen turned it on for 11 unanswered points which took La Salle out of the game for good. 
"For the first time all year we had more than two people doing the scoring," McGraw said, "It was a team effort." 

INFORMATIONAL MEETING TuESDAY, JAN. 24n-tAT 7:a:J P.M. 356 A IZPATRICK HALL 
The Irish Racing Team is an ND student pro­ject that develops and competes an electrically powered Indy-style race car. We are looking for excited students from all majors. Ifyou are interested in anything from producing videos to designing electronic systems, we can use your help. Contact Dr. Bill Berry@1-6102 for more infonnation. 

ACE 
Alliance for Catholic Education 
American Catholic Schools and the Common Good 
by Fr.Tim Scully, C.S.C., Vice-President and Associate Provost 
Tuesday, January 24th at 7:00p.m. Hesburgh· Center Auditorium 
All interested applicants are encouraged to attend . 






KAPLAN 

.-----~~~---~-----------------~-----­
---------------------~-----------­
Monday, January 23, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• HOCKEY 
Irish come up short against Spartans and Wolverines 


DUMB AND DUMBER'' 
A Look At Men, Women and Alcohol 
Presented by David Leschke-Hellstrom BACCHUS/GAMMA Peer Education Network 
January 25, WHERE: 102 DeBartolo Hall TIME: 7 p.m. 

By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports W rirer 
As the legendary Yogi Berra once said, "It was like deja vu all over again." 
That was certainly the case for the Notre Dame hockey team this weekend, as matchups with Michigan and Michigan State seemed to fol­low a similar pattern: play the heavily favorited and extremely talented opponent off their feet for two periods before gradu­ally falling apart in the all im­portant third period. 
Despite losing 8-3 to Michigan State the previous night, the Irish responded reasonably well under some excruciating cir­cumstances in their 9-3 loss to Michigan on Saturday. 
Amid all this, the Irish 
stunned the crowd and the Wolverines. as they jumped out to a 2-0 lead before eight min­utes were gone in the first pe­riod. 
"I think we surprised them in the first period," said head coach Ric Schafer. "Unfortunately, they got mad and picked it up from that point on." 
On the first power play oppor­tunity of the evening, sopho­more defenseman Brian Welch slammed the puck beyond the outstretched glove of Wolverine goaltender AI Loges to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
Just over three minutes later, the Irish struck again. Junior left wing Chris Bales received a Jamie Ling pass, and powered the puck into the back of the net. Bales' score put Notre his 31st point of the season. 
That was all she wrote for Notre Dame, as the Wolverines turned a 4-3 second period ad­vantage into a 9-3 landslide vic­tory. 
Friday's matchup with Michigan State had strikingly similar results. 
Early in the third period with the score at 3-2, a controversial call turned the tide of the game. 

Sponsored By: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
Monday, January 23, 1995
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
-~ • SAiNT MARY'S SWIMMING 

Belles make waves 
ByJENNIFER LEWIS Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Coming off of an exhausting training trip in Tennessee, the Saint Mary's Swimming and Diving team surpassed Hillsdale College in last Friday's dual meet, 136-102. 
In Nashville, the Belles swam two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening, run­ning and practicing numerous drills in between the two inter­vals. 
"Training in Tennessee was the equivalent of running a marathon eight days a week," said coach Greg Janeson. "Fo.otball would call it hell week." 
Although, some of the swim­mers times were slower in last friday's meet, the majority of the times improved. Shannon Kelleher won both the 500 free and 1000 free, making her per­sonal best in the 1000. 
Sara Gillan won the 200 free and placed second in the 500 free. Teresa Popp won the 50 free and 100 free, making a new school record with a time of 56.41. Allison Smith also won the 200 individual medley and the 200 butterfly. 
The divers also contributed to the victory by totaling twen­ty-one points for the Belles. The competition was broken down into two one meter events. Megan McHugh dove for the first time since November due to a back injury while complet­ing an inward one in a half flip, only to win the first round and place second in the second round. 

"I was very happy with my diving," said McHugh. "I didn't know what to expect coming off of my injury and I was very pleased with the win." 
Barb Kranz finished her last diving meet second in the first round, only losing by one tenth of a point, and she took third place in the second event. Swimmer Katie Northrup stepped up to the diving chal­lenge and scored valuable points for the Belles. 
William.s 
continued from page 16 
got rolling early on and gave us a lift." 
Williams scored half of Notre Dame's first 24 points, includ­ing two from threecpoint range. He went 3-of-4 from beyond the three-point arc on the day. 
And his offensive play early on translated into an emotional performance on the defensive end, one that rubbed off on the remainder of the Irish squad. The result was a poor shooting day for Massey, the number one Musketeer. 
"We were battling on defense," MacLeod continued. "We were really aggressive." 
Events 
Lecture 

PROFESSOR STANLEY HOFFMANN Dillon Professor of the Civilization of France Chairman, Center for European Studies Harvard University 
PROBLEMS OF HUMANITARIAN INTERVENTION 
Tuesday, January 24, 1995, 4:15p.m. and Wednesday, January 25, 1995, 10:15 a.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
P.O. BOX 639, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 46556-0639 U.S.A. 
Telephone: (219) 631-6970 

Massey hit just 7-of-18 shots, an indicative performance of the entire Xavier squad, who shot a dismal 35.8% from the field. 
"I had a lot of trouble getting into the flow of the game," Massey said. But it happened for Williams, who made a homecoming trip of his own fol­lowing a dismal performance Tuesday. 
"I wanted to perform well today after a mediocre perfor­mance at Dayton," he said. "I felt I let the team down there, so I wanted to come out and be a leader." 
\Jl}MNI AWARE1V£s 
~ WEEK · S 
The National Alumni Board will be here to answer questions on 
how  the  N.D. Alumni  Network  
can  be  utilized  by  students.  
Refreshments provided.  

THURSDAY 8:30pm DOOLEY ROOM 1ST FLOOR, LAFORTUNE 
ALSO THIS WEEK ... 
WIN A CORDLESS PHONE IN THE S.A,R.G. SCAVENGER HUNT BY BEING THE FIRST TO FIND THE HIDDEN TREASURE (PAPER)!! 
clue #1: What a team! Rice, Rocket, Bolcar, Francisco and Lyght. 
When found, tum in the located treasure to the Alumni Office (Rm. 201 Main Building). Look for another clue in tomorrow's Observer. 

r---Luncii'SpeciaJ--, r--Niii; liine1irt; -, r--LatBNight §P;ci1 -, r---o';:;i1"LMue--,


HOURS: 

I 1-10" Small II 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m.untilclosing) I 1 ~ Toppgin5y 1 
I 2Topping Pizza II Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I 1 ~ 6 1 
I with 1can of Coke II 5Q I I 1Topping Pizza I I Two 14" iJ!rge I
$9
Frilay &Satiltlay 11 :00 am. -3:00 am. 

I $595.~-II I I $595 I I ,f:e Toppmu I 
Swlay Nooo -1:00am. 

I -II .... I I .... I I \tJ 11 ~: I 
-Toppilfp!/5clllllh.llotralidwilh1J1YDrhllrctJU{JtJtl II AlllititxldiToppingsl1.25111llh.W.traJidwilhlllfDrhllrctJU{JtJtl I L-Toppings!/5ceach.W.traJidrtithlllfuther""'-I I AlklliDmiToppings95ctldt/lotraJidwithlllfuther""'-I 
-------... ________. ._ _______...
~-------...
L 


Monday, January 23, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 



BILL WATTERSON 
~C\<,., OO~i "n>UCH THI5 EJlJC(,, ~e's W~ARINE! PIRT~ 
UN~RWEAR. 

NOW, 'tl In-\ t>., RC>IJE S\REIC\\£.0 f:...cRr/":F, TI-lE Do<JRWI\~, I C~N 13Lf:...'S\ 11'\\\l A ROOt-~\ AI \OP SPEED, AN\l n-It. 1-\00\( '«Ill GRAB T\-\t. ROPE ~NO ST<JI' M.t BIToRE I CRI\'SI-\ Cl\JT 1\-\E WI~\)O't\ a~ il-\t. 01'1'05\\t Wl\ll! 
'-.!,,~
01# 

DILBERT 
I ACCOf'\PLI5f-\ED TWICE AS t'\UCI--1 AS WALLY THIS YEAR, ~<­BUT WE GOT EXACTlY THE. S! 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Parts of table settings
1 Sobbed 28 Source of some5 Dangerous PBS programsMarch date 29 Six-foot two, for9 First-class, in example
slang 33 Prying tool 
14 Lotion ingredient 34 Mother of 15 Kind of tide 
Hermes 

16 Boisterous 35 "Get outta festivity here!" 11 Bottle tops J&Numero­18 --Rivera, 37 Composer Kurt Calif. 
38 Popular oil 

19 Warner-additive (Charlie Chan of 39 Gabby bird film) _IF
41 0

20 1943 musical arne composed by 42 Grudge 
37-Across 44 Bridge option 23 Poker opener 45 Light switch 24 "High" time positions 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-....~-+-:-"t-=+~ ~:::+.::+.:-1-7+:-t ~~-+--:--,1-==:+::..j 
r:::-t.::-t:--f=-11-'.::-t.:-1 

I't'\ WONDERING IF THIS IS A CLEVER SHIFT IN MANAGEJ''IENT Pr\IL050PIW 

46 Loewe's partner 
on Broadway 47Trudge 49 Othello's 
ancient 

501928 work composed by 37-Across with "The' 
57 Ache (for) 58 Moses' attire 59 One corner in 
Monopoly so Coke rival &1 Hardly­

(rarely) 62 Sicilian spewer &3 Vaudeville's Ole 64 June honorees &5 Sounds of 
reproof 
DOWN 

1 Texas city 2 Dash 3 John Paul, e.g. 
Puzzle by Joy L Wouk

4 Having a valid will 21 It's unique 5 Feeds the 22 Kind of point computer a Clear the winter 25 Well-padded windshield 26 See 31-Down 7 Apiece 27 Three English &One may be rivers roseate 28 Fights to save a 
9 Utah city sinking boat 1 o Caves in 30 Bret Harte 11 -the Terrible character 
12 Diner's card 

31 With 26-Down, 13 Early auto wife of maker 37-Across 
WELL;>? Dol'\~ J\\'ST SIT I W0\'-1\)E.R \-\oW MM:.'( T\-IERt:, Mf>..~ ! GEl 0\JT FOR\\JNE'S \\E.'S LET SL\1' 
SOME l'fl-lt.N.T 
AI'PL\Ct>.TIOI'I.'S! 

Call them for the menu, 284-4500 
SOUTH DINlNG HALL Tortilla Soup Whipped Potatoes Apple Pie 




f[fie 06server 
Published Monday through Friday, %.e. 06server is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found 
%.e. 06server an indispensible link to the two cam­puses. Please complete the accompanying form and mail it today to receive %.e. 06server in your 
home. 
Make checks payable: The Observer 
and mail: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $60 for one academic year. 
0 Enclosed is $35 for one semester. 
Name ___________________________________ 
Address._______________________________ 
City_______State.___Zip____ 
-
j 
~ 
T\-IRO\.lG-\-1 \-\IS 1=1\'-\Gt.RS. 
YOU'RE. STF\RTING TO ANNOY 
32 Gentle runner 34Rambled 37 Rodeo yell 40 Slander 42 Utah lily 43 Light plane 4& Cake features 48 Red Square 
figure 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
SCOTT ADAMS 
AND THAT l.JOULD 
49 Not yet risen 50 Printer's goof 51 Dog command 52 Hip songs 53 Exploding star 54 Gobbles 55 Where to do 
figure eights 56 "Oh, woe!" 



UR8SUmeS for summer job seekers" is a resume la)J for stqdents>preparing for a summer job search or the su.nun~r j()}) fair br Career and Placement Services .. Briilg YO\U" Resume EXpert disk. and begin or improve yo\U" resume with quick critiques and answers to content au(.! formatting q'Uestions. It will be held today from 6:30·7:30 p:rn in the Hayes•Healy Computer Lab on the b level. 
· Men are need for'the uncast roles in "The Widow fumter,'' a restoration comedy. Auditions will be today at 7;0Q pq1 in Nieuwland Science J-fall Room 284. No experience necessary. Call Margaret at 287·7558 for mQre information.. 
:·l:i:~.:i:~:i\:;~;0;d~\i;)t1~~~J.:~\:: ::. ' :Aq(!·: "Problems of Humanitarian Intervention" will be th~.. t9pi~;pf a J~cture by Stanley Hoffmann. Dillon Professor of tM Civilization of France on Tuesday, January 24, at 4:1!) pm in the Hesburgh Center Agditoriwn. 
~~registration for all undergraduate students must be t;ompleted by Wednesday, January 25. Students need to return their pre-registration deposit forms and the 
deposit(if necessary) at the Student Accounts Office 
n as possible. Failure to pre• register will prevent DARTING for the Fall Semester 1995, and will make a ~t~Q~J,l~ ineligi.J?l~,,for r~om picks. 
....·.:·,·;mVJ::i~=:.::· :· ·, ·=-:::2i.:-··· · 
Keenan Revue tickets will be availabie to Notre Dame students.on.Thursday, January 26, at JACC Gate 10 from 1 to 3 pm Saint Mary's students may obtain ticj(l;}ts at O'Laughlin Auditorium's Lobby Box Office from 4:3Q. tp 6 plll,. As always, tickets are FREE OF CHARGE. 


Notre Dame 

•. NO~l;TH DJNJNG HALL Chicken Nuggets Grilled Ham. Steak 
.J'.,wnon Chee!ll:l ,Bars 
3¥
Saint Mary's . 

... 







SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, January 23, 1995 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Varied scoring punch keys win over LaSalle 
LaSalle shuts down Morgan as captains, freshmen step-up 
ByKCGOYER Sports Writer 
You ain't seen nothin' yet. 

Since the beginning of this year, the sophomore one -two punch of smooth clutch player Beth Morgan and hot hit­ting center Katryna Gaither has been the strength of the Notre Dame Women's Basketball team. However, during Saturday's game co-captains Letitia Bowen and Carey Poor along with the four freshmen stepped to the forefront, leading the Irish past La Salle, 87-65. 
Letitia Bowen, a 6-0 forward from Buchanan, Michigan became Notre Dame's all time leading rebounder on Saturday. Bowen's nine boards on Saturday brought her to a career total of 856, eclipsing the previous mark of 853 set set in 1985 by Mary Beth Schueth. 
"Letitia is our best rebounder and defender," Coach McGraw said, "She always gets the best player." 
Bowen, the only senior on the team, made her impact in all areas as she led in steals and assists as well as rebounds. 
Poor played one of her best games all season with 16 points. Poor, a 6'0" for­ward from Celina, Ohio, has been aver­aging 11.8 points and 5.5 rebounds per game as well as sharing the team's highest free throw percentage with Bowen. 
Gaither, continued her latest streak of double digit games, dropping in 15 points. 
La Salle knew well of Morgan's .scor­ing record as they focused their defen­sive efforts on her through most of the game. However, even their tenacious box and one couldn't keep her from con­tributing to the team in less obvious ways . 
The new arrivals this year, freshmen Kari Hutchinson, Kelly Heath, Mollie Peirick, and Heather Gossard made their impact as well in Saturday's game. Collectively, the foursome was 15-16 from the field, including a 3-3 per­formance from three point range. 
Peirick led the entire team in scoring with 20 points. Peirick's accuracy was unparalleled as she hit 8 of 9 field goal attempts, 2 of 2 from the charity stripe, and 2 for 2 from downtown. 
"Mollie is a very smart player," McGraw said, "She is comfortable and confident in [a game situation.]" 
see IASALLE I page 12 
• MEN'S BASKETBltU. 



Irish manhandle Musketeers 
going to see games like this. We 
Unbeaten home 

need these kinds of games." A national television audi­

streak still alive 

ence, a crowd of 11,410 and the NCAA selection committee
By JASON KELLY watched the Irish recover from 

Associate Sports Editor 

the Dayton debacle in remark­able fashion Saturday. 
Attempts to understand the Notre Dame hit eight of itsNotre Dame men's basketball 

first nine shots and raced to a
team are best left to trained 

26-10 lead, but a Xavier runprofessionals. 
cut it to 41-40 at halftime.
Anyone without a degree in In the second half, the Irishpsychology would go mad try­turned poor Musketeer shoot­ing to figure out how a team ing into easy offensive oppor­can appear so feeble one night tunities. Xavier's ineffective of­and so fearsome the next. 

fense translated into an inef­
Notre Dame mystified its fol­fective press. 

lowers again Saturday with a "We were really concernedcomfortable 84-73 win over about handling their package

Xavier, just four days after a inside and outside and handlingdespicable defeat at Dayton. 

their press," Irish coach JohnIt wasn't the victory itself that MacLeod said. "But they didn'twas so surprising, but the way make their shots and we werethe Irish, minus two of their able to run off their misses."
principle players, dismantled 

Often these became easy bas­the Musketeers. 
kets. Notre Dame shot a sea­Matt Gotsch was home for his 
son-high 57 percent from the
grandfather's funeral and Keith 

field, while the Musketeers
Kurowski watched from the managed only 36 percent.

sidelines, waiting for medi­

"We have to shoot in the 40scation to heal his minor heart 
anyway to get our pressure
problem. 

going," Xavier coach Skip
But Notre Dame nevertheless 

Prosser said. "It's tough to
managed to have five players in press when you don't score and

double-figures, led by Jason it's tough to score when you

_,. Williams' career-high 19 
shoot 36 percent." 
points. 

Notre Dame now awaits
"I wanted to perform well to­Duke, reeling from an unprece­

day after a mediocre perfor­

dented six straight losses in the
mance at Dayton," Williams 

Atlantic Coast Conference. It's
said. "I felt I let the team 

ironic that the Blue Devils, at 9­down." 
8, will come to South Bend
Marcus Young, playing extra 

Tuesday night with a record
minutes in Gotsch's absence, By MIKE NORBUT Musketeers, who waltzed into points per game. Both scored 
worse than Notre Dame's. 
scored a career-high 13. He Associate Sports Editor the Joyce Center sporting an 19, but the Irish tri-captain's
But it's unlikely that the Irisheven made 3-of-5 free throws, impressive 12-2 record. contribution went a long way
will take Duke as lightly as
for god's sake. It's easy to see why Irish But the Irish only used this towards propelling his team to
Dayton, though the mentality of
That's the kind of afternoon it head coach John MacLeod had controversy as fuel for a good a surprisingly easy 84-73 win. 
a team with such a split per­
was for Notre Dame, now 11-6 concerns about his basketball performance. And Jason Williams' 19 points was a
sonality is difficult to predict.
and fighting for its post-season team going into Saturday's Williams was the match that career high, and his shooting
"We've been guilty in the past
life. matchup with Xavier. 
sparked the blaze. early on was the major reason
of having a good game and
"We may have already cost Notre Dame, coming off a The senior forward walked why the Irish exploded to a 24­
then going back," MacLeod
ourselves a chance at the NCAA humbling ten-point loss to into the contest as a mere sup­8 first half lead.
said. "This can't be a one-time
Tournament," Williams said, Dayton on Tuesday, had its porting actor to Xavier's Jeff "It was a good effort overall," 
shot."
acknowledging the devastation tournament hopes hanging by Massey, an Elkhart, Indiana MacLeod said. "Jason Williams
You don't have to be Freud to
of last week's loss to Dayton. a thread, one which could have native who averages about 18
figure that out.
"But the selection committee is been clipped by the mighty see WILLIAMS I page 14 


of note...
Losses add to despair 
Michigan teams hand two disheartening losses 
Check inside for results of Saint 
to the last place Irish hockey team 
Mary's weekend action 

-
See page 14 





