..---------------------------------------~-------------~----~------­

Wednesday, February 15, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 87 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Red tags mark abandoned cars near campus 
By LIZ FORAN 
Assnciatr News Editor 
What do you do when that bucket of rust that sits out by the curb just won't start? Would you rather walk to school from your off-campus location than risk driving? 
Most college students may not have nice cars, and the ones they do have may be tempermental in bad weather. But whatever the make and model, if you leave your car parked on the street for more than three constJcutive days, it just might not be there when you get hack. 
South Bend wants to inform Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who reside off­campus that any vehicle parked on the street is required to be moved every 72 hours, or it is considered abandonned by Indiana state law and dty ordinances. 
If an officer on patrol observes a vehicle that appears to be inoperable or a "snow bird," officers will issue an abandonned vehi­cle red tag, according to Captain Larry Blume, commander of the traffic bureau. 
The red tag will require the car to be moved within three days of issuance, or the car will be towed, Blume added. This will allow oiTicers to determine whether the car is being driven or is an abandonned vehicle. 
It will also allow snow plows to plow to the curbs when the cars are removed, he added. 
"We wanted to make sure that students know about the ordinance, since most are not from the area," Blume said. "The last thing we want to do is tow anyone's car." 
Blume said that students who have been issued red tage whose cars will not start might want to leave a note on the car about the problem, so that the officer assigned to the area will know that the car is not aban­doned. 
Blume said that it is still up to the descre­tion of the officer whether or not the car will be towed. 


Wi
ile the Sesquicentennial to give students a place where they elebration at Saint can go to learn about the history of Mary'·s ended in last the College. 

Archives 
December, the work of Archives Dunleavy, who came to Saint 
director, Sister Rosaleen Dunleavy is Mary's as a biology professor in 
never finished. 1957 left two years later to work on The Saint Mary's Archives her master's degree in microbiology

flourish 
Department stores college records at Johns Hopkins University. She that reveal factors that have helped returned to the biology department to mold Saint Mary's and make it a in1962 and taught up until her two­unique institution. Today, every­year leave of absence in1977. 
at Saint 
thing from ledgers to photographs From 1979 until 1984, Dunleavy fill a corner room on the lower-level continued to teach and also served of the Cushwa-Leighton Library. as the Midwest Regional 
"Most of the students here don't Representative for the Associates of even know the archives exist. I the Sisters of the Holy Cross. It was
Mary7 s 
think all freshmen should take a in December, 1984 that she was class to learn about the library and asked to create the Archives also about the archives," said Department at Saint Marys'. 
Dunleavy. "Our purpose here is two-By JESSICA ZIGMOND Since 1984, Dunleavy has worked 
News Writer see ARCHIVES/ page 4 
• HAll PRESIIlENTS' COUNCIL
Student's play explores racism 
Council looks to allocate 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI "We [the Sisters of Nefertiti] tion. News Writer knew we were taking a risk The play led to a consequent with the play, but we wanted to discussion of racial attitudes 

funds before year's end 
Saint Mary's junior Alia present this and we wanted to and lack of awareness at Saint Paige's play "Awakenings" fos­present it right," said Paige. Mary's. By BRAD PRENDERGAST chase the equipment necessary tered an awareness of racism Paige hopes that "people will "A discussion would force Assistant News Editor to upgrade to the quality of an 
and spawned a discussion on leave the week with a new un­people to look into themselves FM station. the issue following its perfor­derstanding and an open mind, to examine their beliefs and The decision of the Hall Pres­IIPC currently has about mance last night on Saint not only aware of a new cul­their attitudes," according to idents' Council to ·allocate $500 $15,000 available to designate. Mary's campus. ture, but a new understanding Paige. to each residence hall was ap­In other HPC news: 
Paige wrote the play for an According to Paige, this will­proved by the Student Senate, -Council members agreed assignment last year in ingness to discuss attitudes was according to Rich Palermo, co­to sponsor a house again for Professor Linnea Vacca's the "first step towards improv­chairman of the council, who Christmas in April. American Women of Color ing the relationship between made the announcement at Sign-ups for the April 22 pro­class. Vaer.a asked the class to 'Mostgirls, African-American students and HPC's meeting last night. ject will be held Fetiruary 27­write from pHrsonal experi­through no white students." However, Student Senate did 28 in the Hesburgh Library. All ence, so Paige wrote about her Several key issues were not approve the possibility of are encouraged to participate
fault of their 
experiences as an African brought up during the discus­placing the council's remaining in this annual service project. American attending a College own, come from very sion. money in a contingency ac­,-Tickets for Troop NO's sec­where only one pereHnt of the Paige responded to the issue count, with which the council ond annual talent show contest
conservative families and 
of "all the African-American for Notre Dame and Saint
student body shares her cul­could have retained its claim to ture. do not know how to inter­students eating at the same that money for next year. Mary's students will go on sale The play, performed as part table." As a result, the council is next week in the dining halls
act with people of other 
of this week celebration of " Many Saint Mary's students looking for ways to spend its for $3. The show will be held 
The Spirit of Blackness" at cultures.' view this as a sign of exclusivi­funding by the end of the February 24 in Washington Saint Mary's, is the first of a ty. Karen Mendlik, a Saint school year. "If we don't use it, Hall at 7 p.m. week long series of programs Mary's student, expressed the we'll lose it," Palermo said. Tickets will also be available
Alia Paige 
put together by the Sisters of sentiment that many feel this All money not spent by HPC at the door on the night of the Nefertiti organization. The pur­seating arrangement can por­and other student organiza­event for $4. pose of the program is to raise of a new culture." tray the African-American stu­tions by May will be placed in a The top individuals in the 
awareness of different cultures, Paige's play presents a day in dents as unapproachable. general account to be redistrib­contest will win gift certificates specifically the African the life of a black woman at "There are 15 African-Ameri­uted in the fall. from local businesses, and the American culture. Saint Mary's. In it, the main can women out of approximate­A possible use of the funds top dorm will receive a travel­Paige was aware that her character experiences three ly seventeen-hundred on cam­includes helping WVFI make ing trophy recognizing its vi'c­
play presented potential con­incidents of subliminal racism pus. When you see someone the conversion to an FM sta­tory. The trophy is currently troversy through its honest por­from people who "are supposed who looks like you, there is a tion. Besides gaining approval held by Regina Hall. trayal of incidents of racism to be educated." One of these certain amount of comfort in from the Federal Communica­Part of the proceeds will go to 
that actually occurred at Saint incidents involves a member of tions Commission to make the an as-yet undetermined char­Mary's. the Saint Mary's administra-see PLAYI page 4 switch, WVFI must also pur-ity. 

page 2 
• INSIDE COI.UMW 


Noticing a 




lack of 

diversity 
I believe that people 
Ciscley Elliott 
of all races and ethnic 
Viewpoint
groups are equal intel­
Copy Editor 
lectually and socially. This belief is easily rec­onciled with campus life. Obviously, no one is getting any advantage or pity here based on their race. I thought I could reduce the differ­ence between the races to merely one of skin color. Personality was an entirely separate thing from the superficiality of our race. Now, though, I'm plagued by the question. If the only difference between races is the color of one's skin, then the number of minority stu­dents that attends Notre Dame should not affect our experiences here. Then why do we notice? 
I feel the lack of minority students everyday. 
To be blunt, I miss the company of black 
peers. I -thought I was just missing specific 
friends who happened to be black. But as my 
number of friends on campus and my intima­
cy with those friends has grown, I know that 
isn't the case. · 
I'm from Memphis originally. So again, 
being frank, I've probably always taken the 
presence and influence of African Americans 
for granted, and now, with this whole "white 
shock" as an Hispanic friend calls it, I've dis­
covered how important that association has 
become to me. 
There are more serious and far reaching 
effects this lack of strong minority repre­
sentation has caused. 
When I returned .to Humanities class, I was 
shocked to learn my professor had explored 
the extent to which having a black student 
amongst us would have limited our discussion 
of the Autobiography of Malcolm X and in 
general altered the experience for the worse. 
It was like we were supposed to fear a black 
student misunderstanding us and thereby hin­
dering our stumbling toward personal enlight­
enment. 
The minute a class can breathe a sigh of re­
lief over the absence of another race in its 
midst, something needs to be done. We must 
combat the stereotypes that are keeping stu­
dents, albeit of their own choosing, from join­
ing the Notre Dame family. Reach out to those 
students who don't have the cultural back­
ground that automatically makes Notre Dame 
an educational choice; to students that aren't 
called by the same Irish Catholic gene that in­
fected my decision; to those whose parents 
aren't alumni. Show minorities that there is a 
place for them here. We can't wait any longer, 
either. 
Think of the countless graduates that we 
are sending off to the "real world" having 
been virtually isolated for the past four years 
from contact with minorities. 
To live isolated from perspectives that are 
not our own; to forgo discovering the person 
shaped and forever touched by .the singular 
obstacles and insights accompanying each 
race; to never seek out this precious source of 
human experiences and allow it to seep into 
our consciousness: That is not living. That is 
not obtaining an education worthy of a 
catholic university. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TOOAY'S STAFF 
News Lab Tech 
Dave Ring Mark Alexion Edward lmbus Production Melanie Laflin Belle Bautista 
Sports Tara Grieshop Tim Sherman Accent Viewpoint Shannon Marie Johnson 
Ciseley Elliott Graphics Butch Cabreros Tom Roland Meaghan Smith 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

The Observer· INSIDE 
• Wt'HU.D AT A GLANCE 
"Forrest Gump" sweeps Academy Award nominations 
WarMer Bros. didn't want it. Paramount Pictures spent more than three years twid­dling its thumbs. Oscar voters showed no hesitancy, though. "Forrest Gump" was it. Tom Hanks' improbable march through his­tory collected 13 Academy Award nomina­tions Tuesday -the most for a single film since 1966's "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf' and one shy of "All About Eve's" Best Picture record 14 in 1950. Voters also embraced 


"Forrest Gump" "Before The Rain" Macedonia
independent Miramax Films, giving it a lead­
ing 22 nominations-as much as major stu­"Four Weddings and aFuneral" "Burnt By The Sun" Russia 
dios Disney, Columbia and Universal com­
"Pulp Fiction" "Eat Drink Man Woman" Taiwan
bined. "The studio movies are formulaic," 
said Harvey Weinstein, Miramax's co-chair­"Quiz Show" "Farinelli: II Castrato" Belgium 
man. "It's really, really exciting. The revolu­
''The Shawshank Redemption'' "Strawberry And Chocolate" Cuba
tion has begun." In another surprising deci­
sion, "Hoop Dreams" wasn't nominated in 
Best Actor Best Actress Director
the documentary feature category, despite 
some of the year's best reviews. "Forrest 
Morgan Freeman Jodie Foster Woody Allen
Gump" earned nominations for best picture, ''The"Shawshank Redemption" "Nell" "Bullets Over Broadway" 
best actor for Hanks, best director for Robert 
Tom Hanks Jessica Lange Robert Zemeckis
Zemeckis and best supporting actor for Gary 
"Forrest Gump" "Blue Sky" "Forrest Gump"
Sinise -after gathering dust for more than 
5 years at Warner Bros. and spinning in Nigel Hawthorne Miranda Richardson Quentin Tarantino 
movie purgatory for 3 1/2 years at ''Tife Madness of King George" "Tom & Viv" "Pulp Fiction" 
Paramount. But it came up blank in the best 
Paul Newman Winona Ryder Robert Redford
supporting actress category, where co-stars 
"Nobody's Fool" "Little Women· "Quiz Show" 
Sally Field and Robin Wright were con­
tenders. The next-closest films -"Pulp John Travolta Susan Sarandon Krzysztof Kieslowski 
''Pulp Action" "The Clienr "Rea"
Fiction," "Bullets Over Broadway" and "The Shawshank Redemption"-had seven nom-L--------·~--------------~P/W~-:;:-~~5~~110inations apiece. 
President's putter gone AWOL Public prayer remains an issue 
SAN FRANCISCO MIAMI 
President Clinton is going into proba­
The nation's largest group of lawyers voted today to bly the biggest golf game of his life oppose a Republican-backed proposal in Congress for a without his favorite putter. Clinton, constitutional amendment allowing officially sanctioned scheduled to tee off in the Bob Hope prayers in public schools. The American Bar Classic on Wednesday, said he discov­Association's policy-making House of Delegates, in a ered his 35-year-old Bullseye putter nearly unanimous voice vote, went on record as saying was missing Tuesday morning and the proposed amendment is a dangerous idea. "Children speculated he must have inadvertently (already) can pray in school, they can say grace at lunch, stuck it in the bag of one of his golfing can pray in groups ... as long as they do so in a way that partners. "I've got a gazillion (put-does not interfere with the educational process," New ters), but that's the one I play with," Clinton lamented. York City lawyer Peter Zimroth told the 538 voting dele­"It looks like something you'd find at an aging miniature gates. "Politicizing religion is a prescription for disas­golf course." That's not the only reason Clinton is a little ter," he said. "This is simply not the business of govern­anxious about the game at Indian Wells Country Club ment." Albuquerque, N.M., lawyer Roberta Ramo, who near Palm Springs. He's playing in a pretty high-powered in August will become the 370,000-lawyer group's first fivesome and he says he hasn't had much practice lately. women president, called the proposed amendment "the Clinton's partners will be Bob Hope, former Presidents first and terrifying step" toward government interfer­Ford and Bush, and defending tournament champion ence with religious faith. No one spoke in favor of the Scott Hoch. proposed amendment, but a future ABA president 
strongly endorsed school prayer. 
Stepmother charged with murder Swedes try to sell stolen Picasso 
RUSSELLVILLE, Ala. STOCKHOLM, Sweden 
The stepmother of a 5-year-old girl who disappeared Three Swedes were sentenced to prison Tuesday for 
more than a year ago, setting off a two-day search by trying to sell a stolen Picasso painting last year. 
hundreds of volunteers, has been charged with the.. "Woman with Black Eyes" was among eight works stolen 
child's murder. Authorities said divers would try to re­in November 1993 from the Museum of Modern Art in 
cover the body from a lake today. Kim Gonzalez, 23, was Stockholm. The men, all from western Sweden, were 
arrested Monday and charged with murdering Andrea arrested in Belgium when they tried to sell the painting 
Gonzalez, who disappeared from the family trailer Nov. valued at $6.4 million, according to Swedish media. Uwe 
20, 1993, Franklin County Sheriff Larry Plott said today. Willi Danlen, 43, was sentenced to five years in prison. 
Mrs. Gonazalez, held on $20,000 bond, told authorities Mats Kare Svirins, 40, received 2 1/2 years and his 
the girl's death was accidental and no one else was in­brother, Patrik Svirins, 31, was given two years in 
volved, Plott said. When Andrea disappeared, the step­prison. Five paintings and a sculpure by Pablo Picasso, 
mother said the girl had either wandered ofT into woods plus one painting by Georges Braque, have been re­
during the night or had been abducted. trieved. Braques's painting, "Still Life," is still missing. 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 15. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C> 1995 Accu·Waalhar, Inc. 
Pressure ~ ~ rf\ 
H L B~ITII 0~~~ L..i~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vw Assoc/alffd Press 

Atlanta 62 50 Dallas 65 40 New O~eans 75 62 
Baltimore 43 38 Denver 38 18 New York 39 
38 
Boston 35 35 Los Angeles 66 48 Philadelphia 41 41 
Chicago 36 17 Miami 82 72 Phoenix 67 49 



....------..---------------------------~---~--------~ ----------·---­Wednesday, February 15, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Health Fair at


House GOP progresses on 'Contract' 
Saint Mary's
By JIM ABRAMS ate. And Clinton, who has de­the House package to secure almost complete control over 
Senate passage and come up with a bill that Clinton will be compelled to sign. 
The sixth and final bill in the crime package, passed by a 238-192 largely party-line vote, replaces crime-prevention pro­grams and a commitment to help put 100,000 new cops on the streets -two cornerstones of the 1994 anti-crime law ­with a $10 billion block grant that local governments can use as they see fit to fight crime. 
The vote was immediately criticized by police groups. 
Passage gave the new Repub­lican majority their fifth major legislative triumph less than halfway through the 100 days in which their "Contract With America" promised votes on a number of issues. The House GOP previously won passage of a balanced-budget amendment, a measure giving the president a line-item veto on spending bills, a bill to end unfunded mandates on state and local governments and a bill, already signed into law, making law­makers abide by the same em­ployment laws private employ­ers must obey. 
Elsewhere in Congress on Tuesday: 
-The Senate rejected a Democratic bid to exempt Social Security from a bal­anced-budget amendment to the Constitution. Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said that in spite of the mostly party-line 57-41 vote, "For the moment, everybody is willing to protect Social Security." 
-A House Ways and Means subcommittee drafted welfare­reform legislation giving states their troubled foster care pro­
grams. It rejected Democratic 

efforts to strengthen federal 
oversight of those programs 
and increase funding for homes 

for the growing numbers of 
abused and neglected children. 
-Republican and Democratic 

.senators eager to end the base­ball strike introduced legisla­tion that would partially repeal professional baseball's antitrust exemption. House Speaker Newt Gingrich said he does not support it because he doesn't want Congress involved in the labor-management dispute. 
The crime package faces a 
precarious future. "We can't do 

it in six parts" because of Sen­
ate filibuster rules that could 
draw out debate indefinitely, 
Hatch said. "We're going to 
have to come up with our own 
Senate bill," he said, predicting 
it would take at least a month 
before it emerges from his 
committee. 

Senate Republican Whip Trent Lott, R-Miss., said non­controversial items in the pack­age might be combined and separated from the measure concerning 100,000 new police. ''I'm not interested in trying to give the president a challenge to veto a bill. It's more impor­tant that we get major crime revision passed," he said. 
White House chief of staff 
Leon Panetta said the adminis­
tration believed it had enough 
votes to sustain a veto of a 

crime bill that gutted the cops­
on-the-beat program. "We 
would not be disappointed if 
that was one of the first vetoes 
we cast." 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The House passed the center­piece of the Republican anti­crime package Tuesday, voting to create block grants for local governments while eliminating President Clinton's program to hire more police. 
But the latest milestone in the House GOP's "Contract with America" agenda faces a far less certain future in the Sen­manded that his police pro­gram remain untouched, has threatened to veto it if it reach­es his desk. 
''I'm not going to let them wreck our crime bill, which is putting 100,000 new cops on the street," Clinton said Tues­day in an interview with Hunt­ington, W.Va., television station WSAZ-TV. 
Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, said the Judiciary Committee he chairs will have to rewrite 


The Observer/Michelle DIRe 

Graduate student Danelle Ruwe reads last night in the Library audi­torium as part of the Sophomore Literary Festival. 

this afternoon 
By CHRISTINA TECSON 
News Writer 
Twenty-three booths from local businesses, hospitals, and organizations will take part in a Women's Health Fair designed to provide informa­tion on the physical, social, and emotional aspects of women's health in the LeMans Lobby today from 3-5 pm. 
Representatives from the various organizations will be answering questions and dis­tributing brochures, coupons, and free samples to those who attend. 
Members of the Student League for Women's Colleges (SLWC} contacted various groups to include a variety of organizations that would inter­est women. The Bath & Body Works company will be giving out free massages and samples of their products. RJ's Espresso Shoppe will be serv­ing coffee. Mary Kay Cosmetics will also be in atten­dance. 
"It's a great opportunity for women to understand women's health issues," said SLWC President Katie Clancy. 
Self-defense and breast can­cer are among the subjects tht will be discussed to promote a total well-being of women. 
Clancy and senior Kassandra Courtney of SLWC are co­directors of the fair. They are enthusiastic, and hope that students will take enough interest in the information so that it might continue in fol­lowing years, according to Courtney . 
"We hope that women will come to gather pertinent in­formation to help them become advocates of their own well-being," said Clancy. 
"The Student League for Women's Colleges is holding this in order to show that women's colleges have a role in responding to women and health," said Dr. Patrick White, advisor of Student League for Women's Colleges. "What the group is trying to do is show the breadth of issues and concerns, and attitudes for thinking about health in the '90's." 
The health fair is open to ev­eryone in the community . All women from Saint Mary's, Notre Dame, and Holy Cross, are urged to attend, according to Clancy. The event is being sponsored by SLWC, the Well­ness Center, and Board of Gov­ernance at Saint Mary's. 
The Department of Music 
(jue.st Jlrtist Series 
presents 
I.J r'OfQUC or HcnJISSJnrc Pranrc 


The Baltimore Consort 

2:00p.m. Sunday February 19, 1995 Washington Hall 
$5 e11ua/ admission: $2 students and senior.r 


Accounting Majors: 
The Notre Dame Accounting Association invites you to a faculty-student mixer on Thursday, February 16 at 4:30p.m. around the globe in Hurley. 
There will be pizza and refreshments! 



Irish Win Bi &f Arhys Fl 

c::::::o 

Buy I Reg. Get I free I Med. Fry I Free Student Drink 
A $S.40 Valut




On 31
only $2.75 
salle $2.71 




Hey Seniors 
It's the 'IS Days ,,.il Graduation Party at Senior Bar 

Thursday, Feb.l& 



Archives 
continued from page 1 
pronged," she explains. "First, we collect and systemize all material that relates to the College. Then, we make that information available to stu­dents, faculty and alumnae for research purposes." 
Dunleavy mentioned that last year was an unusually busy year for the Department because of the College's Sequicentenial celebration. Also, the Department con­tstantly receives phone calls from people who are interested in family members who attend­ed Saint Mary's , as well as those interested in what College life was like in past years. 
"The materials here include written histories of College events, posters, photographs, audio tapes, video tapes and slides. The Department has the first College ledger, a hand­written book which dates back to 1847 and consists of the accounts for every student who attended Saint Mary's during that term," Dunleavy said. 
The ledger also includes the price that a student was required to pay for a semes­ter's tuition, including laundry and meals: $30. 
The Archives Department also has the first College Bulletin (1860), which lists all graduation events, as well as the receipts of "premiums," or awards given to deserving seniors. 
In addition, students can also find the first edition of "Chimes," the College literary magazine, dating back to 1892; the first volume of the College yearbook published in 1926; and the first Saint Mary's Courier, the College Alumnae magazine, written in 1927. 
Each piece of Saint Mary's history not only offers insight to the events of the College, but reminds researchers of the changes in American history as well. 
"Several yearbooks were not printed during the Second World War because students were encouraged to conserve paper for the war effort," Dunleavy said. 
But it is the history of Saint Mary's that Sister Rosaleen focuses on in the Archives Department. The pieces of memorabalia that are intricate­ly studied, sorted and filed by Sister Rosaleen and her student aides compile a college history that is steeped in both history and change. 
Perhaps the best example of the detailed organization of records is the Saint Mary's Narrative which is compiled and written by Sister Rosaleen herself. All articles or press releases concerning Saint Mary's are inserted in this book that is similar to a college diary. 
"The past year at Saint Mary's has allowed students, faculty and alumnae to better understand and appreciate the meaning of 'honoring tradition and pioneering change' at a women's college in the 1990's," 
Dunleavy said.  
"Although  the  
Sesquicentenial  year  has  
passed,  the  Archives  

Department will remain a place where people can go to learn about the past, present and future of Saint Mary's College," she continued. 

Play 
continued from page 1 

that. We have all become friends," Paige said. "But that doesn't mean we're not going to talk to any one else based on their skin color." 
Paige further emphasized that it is very difficult to be a minority in a situation in which most of her peers cannot relate to her culture. "A big source of support does lie within being with other African-Americans who do share your culture." 
This need for a support group, however, stems from the absence of awareness about African-American culture on campus; this lack of awareness has led to an unintentional but prevalent form of racism. 
"Most girls, through no fault of their own, come from very conservative families and do not know how to interact with people of other cultures," Paige said. 
Several white members of the audience related their ini­tial experiences in which they realized that there were funda­mental similarities between themselves and African­American women. Differences were also recog­nized. 
One member of the audience told about the first time she had touched an African­American woman's hair. "I realized that her hair was dif-

The Observer/Michelle DiRe 

lnauQural Student Readings 
Junior 1>ave McMahon reads from h1s own work at the Sophomore Literary Festival last night. 
ferent from mine, that she had a different texture than me, and I had simply never thought about it before," she said. 
Another member of the audi­ence commented that the pro­duction of the play "was the first time I've felt that I'm actu­ally in a diverse college atmos­phere. I mean, you come to Saint Mary's and you meet yourself all over again." 
Paige was pleased with the enthusiastic reaction of the audience following the play because it seemed to indicate that at least a sizable portion of the Saint Mary's student body is willing to address the issue of racial relations. Paige sees this as a step to eliminating the ignorance that often leads to inadvertent incidents which are, in effect, a form of racism. 

If you see news happening, call The Observer at 631-5323 
JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND SPECIAL! 



TUE VAilSITY SIIIJP 
''On The Concourse'' }ACC 
20% OFF ALL MOM AND DAD SWEATSHIRTS 
WITH STUDENT ID 
Wednesday, February 15, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Plane crash deadly for Canyon tourists Wall Street 
Company has fatal track record since 1980 
By EUN-KYUNG KIM Associated Press 
TUSAYAN, Ariz. 

The company whose plane crashed south of the Grand Canyon, killing eight, has had four fatal crashes and 23 deaths since 1980, a federal official said Tuesday. 
A twin-engine plane operated by Las Vegas Airlines plunged into the pine woods 2 1/2 miles northeast of here Monday, killing seven Taiwanese na­tionals and the pilot. The only survivors, a woman and a teen­age girl, were in critical condi­tion. 
A half-dozen deputies picked through mud, snow and scraps of metal in and around the bro­ken fuselage Tuesday to pre­pare the dead for autopsies, ly­ing bodies on black tarps in the drizzling rain and snow. The bodies were taken to the Co­conino County morgue. 
''I'm really surprised that people made it out alive," coun­ty Sheriffs Sgt. Kathy Paleski said from the scene Tuesday. 
The mud was so deep and fly­ing weather so bad that the only way for rescuers and re­porters to reach the scene was in "snow cats," huge tracked vehicles that carry a dozen peo­ple in their cabs. The midday temperature was around 40 degrees; the wind chill dropped it to 18. 
A team of investigators from the National Transportation Safety Board was assembling in the tourist town 17 5 miles north of Phoenix and 8 miles south of the main visitor area at Grand Canyon National Park. 
The Piper Navajo brought the tourists from Las Vegas for a ground tour of Grand Canyon National Park. It had just taken off on the return flight when the pilot radioed that one of the two engines had failed, accord­ing to Fred O'Donnell, a Federal Aviation Administration spokesman in Los Angeles. 
Officials at the airline's Las Vegas offices refused several requests for comment. The company issued a statement listing the names of the pas­sengers and saying it was as­sisting in the investigation. 
O'Donnell called the airline's safety record "not particularly commendable.'' Comparable statistics about the safety records of other tour airlines weren't immediately available from the NTSB. 
It was the fourth fatal crash of a Las Vegas Airlines flight since the company was founded in 1980, O'Donnell said. The worst was in 1983, when a plane crashed into a wall of the Grand Canyon, killing nine peo-

Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
ZZND Annual Summer Program ND,SMC Students 
London Rome May 24, June 23 June 18, July 17 
Courses offered in 
Psychology, Education,Business & Economics, History, Italian 

Informational & Organizational Meeting 
February 20, 6:30 p.m. Library Auditorium Lounge 
Past student and faculty participants will be present. 
For information, call Prof. Black 284,4460 or 272..3726 


security increased 
By TOM HAYS Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Security is tight on Wall Street in response to what law enforcement sources on Tuesday called terrorist threats against "symbols of American capitalism." 
The crackdown comes as the anniversary of the Feb. 26, 1993, World Trade Center bombing nears and in the midst of the trial of 11 Muslim extremists accused of plotting to wage a war of urban terror­ism in the New York. 
Meanwhile, the federal gov­ernment listed 172 people "who may be alleged as co­conspirators" in the trial of Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman and his followers. The list includes the Sudanese Mission to the United Nations. 
Not far from the federal courthouse where the trial is underway, a small army of plainclothes officers started patrolling Wall Street in recent days, law enfourcement sources said. Uniformed offi­cers have been posted around­the-clock at the New York and American stock exchanges. 
"What you're seeing is the protection of places that, based on our intelligence, are known targets, places certain groups consider symbols of American capitalism," said one source, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Said Mayor Rudolph Giuliani: "Every single precaution is being taken." The sources re­fused to say who made the threats, but Wall Street work­ers said security mushroomed Feb. 2 as the alleged master­mind behind the planned bombings and assassinations issued cryptic warnings while negotiating a plea bargain. 
Siddig Ibrahim Siddig Ali pleaded guilty, telling the he wanted to tell prosecutors about "a few things that are happening out there that I don't want to be part of." 
Siddig Ali's remark coincided with a Police Department memo to private security forces urging a "heightened sense of awareness" at the approach of the second anniversary of the World Trade Center bombing. 
As a result, "The financial district is probably the most secure part of the city right now," said Michael O'Connor, head of security for a down­town business improvement district. 
On Wall Street Tuesday, po­lice stopped delivery trucks to check papers before letting them through to the back of the New York Stock Exchange, not a usual practice. 
Barricades had been placed 

to prevent vehicles from park­
ing in front of the exchange. 
Exchange workers said all of 
their bags are being checked, 
and visitors were being 
restricted. 
"People are scared," said 

Milton Torres, who works in 
the NYSE building. 
He spoke with John DiTringo, who was ordered to move his Italian food stand away from the front of the building on Feb. 3. 
Tuesday's session of the trial 

of Abdel-Rahman and his co­
defendants was canceled be­
cause one defendant was ill. 
pie. 
The three earlier crashes involved pilot error, and investigators didn't find a pattern of problems at the airline, he said. 
The NTSB called for a full investigation of the airline following an accident Dec. 10, 1991, in which a Las Vegas Airlines plane crashed into a mountain on the Arizona-Nevada state line, killing the pilot and four French tourists. 
The NTSB also criticized the FAA for what it called a "marked absence of over­sight" of tour operations in Las Vegas following that crash. An investigation by the FAA's national office found the office was performing up to standards, O'Donnell said. 
The crash was at least the 12th fatal aircraft accident at or around the park since 1980, and brought the death toll to 95 for that period. 
The airspace over the canyon is tightly regulated because of concerns about safety and about noise disturbing tourists, hikers and whitewater rafters, said Dan Anderson of the Na­tional Air Access Council in Washington, D.C. 
Anderson, formerly head of a local air tour industry group, acknowledged there is a public perception of a safety problem at the canyon, but said the acci­dent rate is actually low consid­ering 800,000 people a year are 

100 miles UTAH 
~ 
100km 
::> 
COLO.
w 
z flown over the canyon. 

"It only stands to reason that compared to some airport out in South Dakota you're going to have more accidents," Ander­son said. 

Please, Recycle The Observer 
------------~--------------~~--~---------~----~-----~------------­



Grozny residents cower in shadow of fighting 
By JULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 
GROZNY, Russia 

For six weeks she huddled in her basement with the corpses of an elderly couple who died after taking shelter with her. She was too afraid to come out. 
This week, 61-year-old Valya Udobakhiyeva finally emerged, blinking, her hands and feet covered with grime and sores. 
"What's the date today?" she asked as she was lifted into a truck bound for a Russian atmy hospital Monday. "Is the shoot­ing over for good?" 
"Nobody knows, granny dear," said rescue worker Grisha Chukov, a member of the 40-man rescue unit in Russia's Emergency Situations Ministry. The rescue workers have begun trying to pick up the pieces in Russian-controlled north Grozny after weeks of bombing, artillery attacks and gun battles. 
Chukov evacuates the sick and wounded, delivers water and medical kits, picks up mail and performs countless other functions in a city that has ceased to function at all. 
"Look at it, it's Stalingrad," he said as the truck lurched 

• Earn a B.S. degree in nursing • Eligibility requirement: baccalaureate degree as of May'95 • Program begins May 30, 1995 and ends July, 1996 Application materials must be submitted by March 1, 1995. For more information contact, 
Saint Mary's CollegeAdmission Office at (219) 284-4587. 

past block after block of ruins, down cratered streets lined with bricks and rotting bodies. 
Gunfire sounded from south­ern parts of the city, where Chechen separatists continue to battle the Russian troops sent in to snuff out the southern republic's three-year bid for independence from Moscow. Despite a limited cease-fire signed Monday, nobody in Grozny expects peace anytime soon. 
While some Grozny residents are slowly venturing out, many still cower in basements. Udobakhiyeva, who lived on preserved fruits and vegetables stored in her basement, said she hoped to join relatives else­where in southern Russia. 
On the same truck that res­cued her was another elderly woman who had trouble walk­ing. She said her son, a high school English teacher, was shot to death while on his way home one day. 
The two women were taken to the Russian military base at Mozdok for medical treatment before being handed over to refugee officials. 
Russian troops blanket cen­tral and northern Grozny, but are jumpy. 
The troops roar around the dusty streets in tanks and armored personnel carriers, and patrol quiet lanes of bro­ken-down houses on foot. They visibly outnumber civilians, who usually are elderly people dragging food, water or build­ing materials in wheelbarrows and handcarts. 
Many civilians accuse the troops of attacking and stealing from them. 
"There they go, the maraud­ers," said a Chechen woman who asked not to be identified, as an armored vehicle raced past piled high with mattresses and furniture. She said the troops were always drunk and shoot out the locks on apart­ment doors so they can come in and loot. 
Other troops, however, seemed to have won the trust and gratitude of civilians. Some were fixing power lines, others sawing wood. 
The troops, for their part, say Chechen fighters have mined Russian corpses. They say the fighters are hiding in the sewer system, popping up just long enough to shoot at them. 
"We came here for . Pl 
II


mustc.... ay some. 
~I!!!I'!!IP.!!I' 
THE ABOVE BANDS WILL BE PERFORMING ON MARCH 31 ST STEPAN CENTER 

THE COMPETITION STARTS AT 8:00PM GET YOUR EARS READY!!! 
•--­
Questions: Call Kate x4828 or Grant xl620 
Chechnya's cease-fire 



Global Internship and Language Programs 

a representative will be on campus: 
Thursday, February 16th 11:00 am-1:00pm O'Hara Lounge LaFortune Student Center 



llilltll]
lnternationaIPro yrams 
For program details please wrilt or aJ/1: 
Boston University International Programs 232 Ray State Road, Box Q, Boston, !\lA 02215 • 617/353-9888 
ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
is hiring for student manager positions for the 95-96 


school year 
•GREAT 
EXPERIENCE 

•REAL 
RESPONSIBILITIES 

•FUN 
ENVIRONMENT 


Open to Grads and Undergrads who are 21 and over by September '95 
Pick up Applications atStudent Activities, 315 Lafortune 
~e~h1st1995 



VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 15, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OrFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accem Editor............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scotr Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor............... Elizabeth Regan Controller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported a.s accurately and objectively a.s possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Changing opinions, tradition 
Dear Editor: 
Under normal circumstances, after a person graduates, his or her modes of thinking are set and he or she will in general be less receptive to opinions or be­liefs previously unencountered. In the case of Notre Dame, most students who graduate will have next to no exposure to the wide variety of belief systems that differ from those of white middle-class Catholic America. 
From time to time, students have expressed concern about open forum which will allow ity to beliefs which are not pre­this laek of diversity in thought, those who recognize the need dominant at the university. belief. and action, yet none of for diversity and freedom of Everyone who is interested is them proposed or pursued a so­thought to openly express their invited to call either of us at lution to the erisis. In light of differences without fear of in­any time at 4-2047 or e-mail us the rapidly diversifying world, it crimination. at alaser@bach.helios.nd.edu or is likely that few of our gradu­Our fundamental goals for fcloran@.helios.nd.edu for fur­ates will function well in the so­this forum are to preserve and ther information. cial environment into which encourage freedom of speech, they are about to enter. freedom of thought, and toler­FRANCIS CLORAN 
We are not about to preach to ance for the benefit of the Notre Sophomore the university about this prob­Dame community and.our gen­ALAN LASER lem, but rather we propose eration as a whole. We hope to Junior solution, namely, to sponsor an increase exposure and sensitiv-Stanford Hall 
'St. Ed's Six' save day from disaster 
Dear Editor: and it took all six of them working minutes 
On Wednesday, February 8, I arrived on cam­before the car was able to be driven. I didn't get pus at 6:30 am and returned to my car at 6:30 all their names, but they were led by a Pre­pm to find it had been buried past the wheel­Medlfheology major named Ben; to all of you, wells in snow packed tight from the snowplows. thanks. J wouldn't have been able to manage it 
Luekily, I had parked facing the fence in lot 02, on my own. You've renewed my faith in the kind­
or all four sides of the car would have been ness of strangers and deserve kudos from your buried. As I walked around the car in amaze­Rector and whoever else hears of this. Once ment, six great guys from St. Ed's offered their again, thanks to the "St. Ed's Six!" 
help. 
Without aid of a shovel, and some using their SUSIE PAULIK BABKA bare hands, they dug the snow and pushed the Graduate Student car out of the mess. It sounds easier than it was, Department ofTheology 


page 7 



Moral elite imposes its sacred opinions 
Dear Editor: 
As usual, the pro-life contingent has backpedalled from the transgressions of its comrades and has ascended the moral plateau from which it now stands. Unable to justify the radical actions of their peers, they shout out righteously that we have sinned. They ask us if we think abortion is wrong, yet they answer the question for us, labeling us as "pro-abortion." After all, the morally elite are entitled to do this, regardless of whether or not we think it is wrong. 
It's all about imposing your sacred views on others, exempified in full by the aforementioned "sidewalk counseling." Oftentimes, this "counseling" entails no more than threats of bodily harm and picturesque descriptions of hell. Numerous women have been fol­lowed and stalked after coming home from clinics, and teenagers' parents are often called to alert them of their daughters' sins. Obviously, they feel they must do all they ean to save lives. 
So, I answer your question. Yes, I think abortion is wrong; how­ever, it is not my choice to make nor is it my duty to persecute others for that choice. It is a decision that must be weighed with every ounce of one's soul. Choice is not a word dreamed up in the last year to justify abortion, it is the essence of one of our nation's laws. 
JIM LAMBE 
Junior 
Grace Hall 



a.S~VP unwelcome 
~: 
··.·. 'tQr:
·.:At the risk Clf making Josh Ozersky as big a celebrity as he already thinks he is. please print the following response: 
•.·. ]'l\an.k ~ou printing Thursday's "Society Wlurl~ column which rev~ale.c:l tl't~t Josh Ozersky would try to attend our party. With ~his· cedwarning, we were able to take appropriate precau· 
ti . ~ public service; The Observer might consider printing 
rsky's intended social calendar on a regular basis. In this ets-thus forewarned-might be similarly forearmed. 
KEVIN KRAUSE JOHN VON HEYKING Graduate Student$ Departmcllf of Government 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
5/R, WHet?& exACTl-Y THAT'S TH& M~YPART, £JlJT IS/117 NOT FOR. AR& WP 6erT!Nt3 OUR MUCH UJN(j[!/?. .
HJN&Y. N& JU5T TAKe 't/11 7HAT 
Ctlwr5 FOR ''NOTH!N' Kll?NAPP/NG? /'tSNUMfJf:R
FRQtll UN/Jt3RA6&, UNFIT,
8fTORPHANG".? THRE&IN
UNWW MOTH£/?S.' I 
N&IAIT'S
\ 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" 'Tis very warm weather when one's in bed." -Jonathan Swift 
VIEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, February 15, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Sexuality: Collegiate community speaks out 
ND policies suppress freedom 
Dear Editor: Union. The policies of this University with A safe, clean and orderly campus is an 
regard to the recognition of student interest that students, faculty and staff organizations is unjust and discrimina­share. That interest demands that· stu­tory and it should be abolished. dent organizations be run above ground, 
Hecent developments in the twenty­using acceptable accounting practices, year struggle of gay and lesbian stu­with decent regard for the security and dents to organize and meet on campus cleanliness of University facilities. This do not suggest that University officials legitimate interest of the University com­should "bow down" to public pressure to munity does not demand that· unpopular "recognize" such a group. Rather, views or styles of life-even non-Catholic University officials should "bow out." views-be systematically oppressed. Student organizations should be regis­Nothing prevents University officials tered and funded by students. from turning current policies against 
As I have spoken with various alumni any other student organization they may of the University and others who have not like. This campus witnessed similar examined the history of student regula­events in 1991 when a group of minority tions at this University, it is apparent students organized and occupied the that the process of "recognition" itself Registrar's office to speed along the was devised precisely to exclude groups recognition of their organization, such as "Gays and Lesbians at Notre Students United for Respect (SUFR). Dame" from the use of campus facilities. · This spring I encourage Student Yet, it has come to be used by campus Government and the Graduate officials to conveniently suppress the 1st Student Union to develop and imple­and 5th ammendment rights of students ment their own procedures for the regis­to free-expression and free-assembly for tration and funding of student organiza­peaceable ends. At few other tions. And I encourage every other stu­Universities have students so sheepishly dent organization to stand in solidarity ceded those rights to bureacrats as they with GLND/SMC this spring and to refuse have here. the University's "official recognition." 
Student organizations should not need You have nothing to lose ex<,:ept their and should not request the official chains. stamp of approval from University offi­cials. Student funds should not be dis­bursed by University accountants. These JEFFREY VANDERWILT are the proper roles of our student Graduate Student government agencies: the Student Department ofTheology Government and the Graduate Student University of Notre Dame 

Deny support, deny education 
Dear Editor: Liberal education is based on the premise that di­
I am a student at Bucknell University in Lewisburg, versity is essential to a true understanding of humani­P A and I just received a message from activists here at ty. The denial of a space at your university for this the university that campus space at your university has group can only have a deteriorating effect on this been denied to the Gay/Lesbian/Bisexual support orga­premise. And yes, quite frankly, it is institutionalized nization at Notre Dame. I am writing to show the sup­discrimination. port of students around the country for such organiza­I hope your publication serves as a voice in this tions. debate. This is definitely a disturbing development. I 
I find it unbelievable that something like this can plan on forwarding this letter and the information I happen in 1995. Then again, maybe it isn't so unbe­have to the administration at your university and to lievable. I find such action reprehensible. How can an friends and family with ties to Notre Dame. I also hope institution dedicated to education deny its students to get this into the campus news section of our univer­space to pursue activities that are fully in line with that sity publication. goal? 
Further, as an institution that is supposed to be . MICHAEL O'HEANEY involved in Christian faith development, a faith that Class of 1995 challenges its believers to Jove others, such action is · Bucknell University absolutely contradictory. What have these members of Lewisburg, PA your community done to deserve this banishment? 

Acceptance based on behavior 
Dear Editor: 
GLND/SMC's courageous struggle for recognition by the University has inspired me to begin a similar cru­sade. I am starting the PSPND/SMC (Premarital Sex Practitioners of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's). 
Of course, the Catholic Church considers sex outside of marriage to be a grievous sin, and since Notre Dame purports to be a Catholic university, premarital sex is a violation of University policy. Nevertheless, there are plenty of Notre Dame students who engage in such behavior who undoubtedly feel stigmatized by the University's proscriptive stance. They would benefit from a support group on campus. 
As GLND/SMC has so eloquently pointed out, the Uni­versity's mission is to accept and support its students whatever their lifestyles may be, not trumpet the dog­mas of a morally-backward Church. 
Therefore, I call on the University to recognize PSPND/SMC as an integral part of the Notre Dame community deserving of all rights and privileges afforded other campus groups. I also call on those who support GLND/SMC's efforts to join my campaign as a logical extension of their concerns, and together we can make Notre Dame a truly inclusive community. 
RICK OSTRANDER Department of Hiswry University of Notre Dame 

Action 'appalling' 
Dear Editor: 
As Community Service Coordinator and openly gay member of the Department of Student Affairs at the University of Vermont, I am appalled at the blatantly discriminatory decision on the part of University of Notre Dame against its own lesbian/gay/bisexual stu­dents (regarding the use of school facilities for the bisxuaVgay!lesbian student group.) Information of this unjust action is public, and I stand in solidarity with the gay!lesbianlbisxual community at the homophobic institution of Notre Dame. What a disgrace university officials have brought upon their name. 
TIMOTHY V. KANE Community Service Coordinator University of Vermont 
omophobia creates 
1....~... 


qJshed reputation 
Edito~> 

a straight man working on the UW-Madison and in the Madison community to end violence, I the nearsightedness with which the administra­
a university of such high and JfCl)U~;mon.should choose to so blatantly dis~~rinuin:ate. 1Stl11'1ents pay tuition; in doing so they are hm,hn>,raJ,h, with its very lifeblood-the funds 
maintain proper facilities in which an atl1no~mhlert3l honest, fearless examination of human COJlditioJns be pursued. otre Dame has denied its students of both; lm~lmt)ers of the LGB organization are denied access facilities they are paying and the campus sent running for the shadows, shrouded and shame. How can a faculty that turns to a portion of the student body because of sexism and homophobia ever be expected to te an atmosphere where learning can truly take 





ACC~NT 
Wednesday, February 15, 1995 page 9 
Synchronized Swimming makes a splash 
By BEVIN KOVALIK 
Accent Writer 
H
ave you seen the "Saturday Night Live" skit where Martin Short sports a swimming cap and nose plugs and competes as an Olympie synchronized swimming star? 
"This is the question people most fre­quently ask when they discover I am a member of the synchronized swimming dub," laughs Jenny Szarek, a Howard IIall juniiJr. 
So what exactly is synchronized swim­ming anyway? 
"It is a very artistic combination of ballet and gymnastics in the water," said Mngan Keenan, president of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Synchronized Swimming Club. 
"Synchronized swimming requires the same endurance and stamina of any other athlete such as a runner or a swimmer," Keenan added. 
Although synchronized swimming is a recognized club team of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, the twelve members of the team have been petitioning to turn their club into a fully recognized varsity sport. 
Synchronized swimming is presently competing with other club sports like field hockey and lacrosse for varsity sta-tus, according to Keenan. 

Synchronized swimming is the ideal low-budget sport because the club already has the necessary equipment and resources: Rolfs Pool and interested team members. 
"I would really love to see syn­chronized swimming become a varsity sport here, but I guess it will depend on the priorities of the Athletic Depart­ment," Keenan said. 
There are approximately seven schools in the nation that offer synchro­nized swimming at the varsity level, according to Keenan. 
"It would be nice to add another big-name school to the list, which already 
includes schools like Ohio State Univer­
sity and Stanford University," Keenan 
said. 

"Notre Dame and Saint Mary's could 
add a whole .new dimension to the varsi­
ty sport programs and really recruit 
some good athletes, especially from the 
mid-west," Szarek added. 
The club members will most likely 
qualify at the zones competition at OSU 
for the national competition to be held 
at Stanford University at the end of 
March. Unfortunately, because of a lack 
of club funds and sponsors, the team 
will not be able to participate, according . to Keenan. 
"Notre Dame should be represented at 
such a prestigious event, so we are all 
pretty disappointed," Szarek said. 
The synchronized swimming club will 
soon sponsor a free water show at Rolfs 
Pool to reveal the abundance of talent 
and give people a taste of synchronized 
swimming, a sport which a lot of people 
do not even know exists here. 
"After many practices and lots of hard 
work, this will be a great way to publi­
cize a growing sport and really make an 
impression on people," Szarek said. "It 
is beautiful and fun to watch." 
"Anyone who has perseverance and 
determination can do it!" Szarek added. 

Sharon Olds: Frank and Intimate 
tan Says, The Dead and the with established poetic person­
Acclaimed poet 
Living, The Gold Cell, The Mat­ae: ter of This World, The Sign of

to share her 
Saturn, and her latest work, I have done what you The Father, Sharon Olds, who wanted to do. Walt

voice at 
received her education from Whitman, Allen Ginsberg. Stanford University and I have done this thing, ISophomore Columbia University, now and the other women this shares with the younger gener­exceptional act with theLiterary Festival ation her wealth of poetic exceptional heroic body, knowledge as Associate this giving of birth, this
By SCOTT EDEN Professor of N.Y.U.'s Creative glistening verb, and I am 
Accen1 Wri1er 
Writing Program and in­putting my proud structor at Goldwater Hospital American boast right here 
H
ailing from San 
for the physically disabled. with the others. 
Francisco, California­that perpetual hotbed 
Her poetry has won numer­fresh and vigorous asof avant garde literary produc­ous awards, including the 1984 was Satan Says, Olds'tion-Sharon Olds will offer her Lamont Poetry Selection of the econd book, The Deadpersonal, erotic, shockingly Academy of American Poets and the Living, achieves a levelhonest brand of poetry to the 
and the 1985 National Book of refinement that is much 
campus of Notre Dame at the Critics Circle Award, both for more profound. Divided into Sophomore Literary Festival. 
her 1984 collection The Dead two sections, this collectionOften mentioned in the same 
and the Living. Not only has contains poems of decidedly
breath as such seminal female Ms. Olds seen tremendous no­political orientation and deals
writers as Adrienne Hich, 
toriety in this country, but, be­with death from several differ­Denise Levertov, Anne Sexton, cause her verse. has been ent perspectives. However, itand Sylvia Plath, Olds' work translated into a vari'ety of for­does not refrain from pursuingyields less hostility and sar­eign languages including human compassion and sympa­
casm than much of today's 
Italian, Chinese, French, thy in such subjects as love,women's poetry, but never fails Hussian, and Estonian, she has marriage, and children. 
to provide intimate, frank, sex­received considerable exposure Richard Tillinghast, in a review
ual imagery, casting a 
outside the United States. for Nation, proclaims, "whileWhitmanian light on everything 
Satan Says was impossible to
from childbirth, virginity, and 
ignore because of its raw
motherhood, to Marilyn 
' sharon Olds, make power, The Dead and the Liv­
Monroe and politics. 
ing is a considerable step for­
no mistake about it, 
Sharon Olds, make no mis­
ward... Olds is a keen and ac­
take about it. is a woman poet, is a woman poet, writing 
curate observer of people." 
writing from a woman's per­from a woman's perspec­Ms. Olds's most recent work,spective, confronting experi­
The Father, is a collection of 
ences distinctly female, yet also tive, confronting experi­Winner of the 1985 National Book Critics Circle Award, Sharon Olds 
poems about a woman's con­
reveals her feminist poetry tonight at Hesburgh Auditorium.
possessing an ability to univer­ences distinctly female ... frontation with the death of her sally define human reality. By 
father. Directed toward death celebrating childbirth, men­Tackling the experiences of and its subsequent grief, The content and form, Olds is not has never been written in a struation. pregnancy and sex, adolescence, childbirth, and Father is extremely focused, without her predecessors. poem? What is the use, func­she creates a world of shocking early motherhood, Olds, ac­describing the dying man's Among "the generation just tion, service of poetry in a soci­
images and extraordinary inti­phlegm-filled coughs and de­ahead of mine whose work I've ety? For whom are you writ­
cording to Joyce Peseroff of the macy, harking back to Whit­American Book Heview, "uses crepit body, as well as the especially learned from and ing? (The dead, the unborn,man's notion of American liter­language lthat] often does 'turn daughter's anguish at his in­loved," she lists Galway Kinne!, the woman in front of you in ary vigor. This keen and neatly about."' Using verbs evitable death. "Pointedly, distinguished poet, novelist, the check-out line at Shop­
courageous use of feminine which might seem at first al­there is no grand moment of another guest speaker at the Rite?)" Sharon Olds has en­physicality has placed Olds at most grotesque, she manages release," states Lisa Zeidner in Sophomore Literary Festival. countered these and many
the peak of contemporary 
to describe a violent, changing The New York Times Book Re­For Sharon Olds, poetry is an other questions in her direct,women's poetry, penetrating, universe. view. "Bather, we see the experimentation, a dynamic turbulent, often shocking po­
as Alicia ()striker states in an medium used to explore the etry, and through her writings
In poems such as "Prayer," painstaking process of lettingartide for the New York Times and "The Language of the go... as the narrator confronts whole of human reality as well has reached a vast number of 
Book lleview, "not only what it 
Brag," Ms. Olds addresses the the impossibility of understand­as her own life, emotions, and individuals. 
nwans to be a woman but what experience of childbirth on ing her father's fate-any perceptions. "Questions that it means to be human." many levels, from parallels man's fate-in any definitive interest me include: Is there Sharon Olds will be giving a The author of such critically with her earliest sexual way." anything that shouldn't or can't reading tonight at 8PM in the 
acclaimed compilations as Sa-be written in a poem? What Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
encounters to comparisons Although distinctive in both 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 15, 1995 
• Cou.EGE BASKETBAlL •NBA 

Huskies handle Hoyas, 91-85 Disgruntled Drexler 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 

LANDOVER, Md. 
Connecticut won its first game as a No. 1 team and also ended the Washington area's recent jinx over top-ranked schools with a 91-85 victory over Georgetown on Tuesday night. 
The Huskies (20-1, 13-0 Big East) took over the top spot in the country on Monday and their first game was in the same area where Massachusetts and North Carolina had lost as No. 1 teams within the last 10 days, to George Washington and Maryland, respectively. 
Georgetown (14-7, 7 -6) gave quite an effort in trying to stretch the streak, but Connecticut's pressure defense and versatile offense proved too much for the Hoyas, who lost their fourth straight game. 
The win was the 18th con­secutive Big East regular sea­son victory for the Huskies, who have five games left in an attempt to become the first league team to go unbeaten. It was also Connecticut's ninth straight conference road victory and the first time Georgetown had ever lost two straight league games at USAir Arena where it has been playing since the 1981-82 season. 

The Hoyas started the second half with a 17-5 run for a 50-42 lead with 16:17 to play. They kept the lead behind an acro­batic performance from fresh­man guard Allen Iverson and a solid career-high effort from freshman forward Boubacar Aw. 
The Huskies, however, turned up the pressure near midcourt and the plan to have the big men bring the ball upcourt against it started to unravel. 
It also helped Connecticut that Ray Allen, the conference's leading scorer, started to get going. 

traded to Rockets 
Associated Press 


DALLAS 
Clyde Drexler, who played 11 1/2 seasons with the Portland Trail Blazers, got the trade he had requested Tuesday, going to the Houston Rockets with forward Tracy Murray for for­ward Otis Thorpe. 
The NBA champions will also give Portland the rights to 1993 second-round draft pick Marcelo Nicola. 
Drexler, 32, a teammate of Rockets center Hakeem Olajuwon at the University of Houston, is Portland's all-time leader in scoring, assists, steals and rebounds. 
Drexler asked for a trade be­fore the season and made his request public in January, say­ing he was unhappy with the directon of the franchise. He had already left for Houston on Tuesday night as the Blazers were preparing to play the Mavericks. 
"It's something that Clyde wanted and he got what he wanted," Portland point guard Rod Strickland said. "What more could he ask for? He wasn't happy with what was going on here and he's going 
AP tile photo 
Perenial All-star, Clyde Drexler returns to Houston, the city where he played his college ball. 
back home. He gives them somebody who's one of the top go-to players in the league. He's a clutch player who's re­ally help Houston." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

LOST: Black winter "GAP" cap.  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ SMALL FURNISHED ROOM FOR  Congratulations to the best broom­ DESPARATELY NEEDED:  
NOTICES  Please call x2027 with any info.  Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­ RENT. WALK TO CAMPUS. $150/MO. INCL. UTILITIES.  ball team ever. THE CUL DE SACS and their star puddle, Michele  Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for  
LOST: A NAVY BLUE SPORTS  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  287-2159.  Potter. Next victory,-f'eb. 22. Stay  weekend. Please help.  
Passenger 57  JACKET W/ BROWN BUTTONS  Mexico, the Caribbean. etc.).  tuned for details ...  
Thursday Feb 16 $1.00  AT FISHER-WALSH FORMAL  Seasonal and full-time employment  1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You!  
Lafortune's Montgomery Theatre  LAST FRIDAY. PLEASE CALL  available. No experience neces­ CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT  Bevin,  
8/1030pm  JASON AT X2153  sary. For more information calll- FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ Happy day after V-day. The score is  SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­ 
206-634-0468 ext. C55843  6551  love-love ­ that's a tennis joke.  DON & ROME FOR ND/SMC STU­ 
Volunteers needed to help run  LOST LIZARD!! LOST LIZARD!!  Waiting for the rematch.  DENTS TRAVEL IN IRE,SCOT,  
Troop NO's 2nd annual talent show for Friday. Feb. 24 at 7 P.M.  I lost a gecko lizard earring, silver, one and a half inches long,  SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS  FOR SALE  Chris  FR. GER. & SWITZ. COURSES AVAILABLE IN BUEC. ED. HIST.  
Informational meeting on Wed.,  sometime on Monday. somewhere  CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY  Sherah. Amy & Bootsie,  ITALIAN, PSYCH.MEETING IN ND  
Feb.  15 at LaFortune. 2nd floor  on campus.  Please call  RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME  It's only February but I rue the day  LIBRARY LOUNGE, FEB. 20 AT  
lounge at 8 P.M.  Liz @ 287-7444.  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL  Immaculate Condo with the latest  we'll be apart. Have a Spangler's  6:30PM. STUDENTS. FAG, PIZZA  
Call Lisa @ 273-6033 for more  IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING  decor and sharper than new. Call  Stout on me. "Is that right!?"  SOCIAL. CALL PROF. A.A. BLACK  
info.  HELP! I've lost my 18 inch gold  ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball.  Harold Zeltwanger 291-9338 or  Chris  284-4460 (OFC) OR 272-3726  
necklace with oval-shaped pendant  Basketball, Drums. Football. Golf,  ERA All Star Realty 255-8789.  (HOME)  
that has the initial "L" inside. It has  Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse,  KG -my confidante,  
great sentimental value.  If you've  Lifeguard, Nature. Nurses,  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  I need help bartending ­ are you  SHENANIGANS  
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out  found it, please call Liza @ X4991  Photography, Piano. Pool,  at $85,900. First floor location.  available, friend? Let's not define it  Annual JPW Concerts  
Pandora's Books 233-2342  Rocketry, Rollerblading. Ropes,  Finished basement with full lavato­ and no groping next time.  Saturday. February 18th  
NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 9-3 sundays  WANTED  Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer, Tennis, Track, Video. Waterski,  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner  "Holding hands meant so much then."  1 :00 pm and 2:30 pm Snite Annenberg Auditorium  
Windsurfing, Weights, Wood,  through May. 1995. Call  CB  FREE ADMISSION  
•••woMEN'S HEALTH FAiw••  Spring Break! Bahamas Party  Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  (616)946-0700.  Everyone Welcome  
TODAY! TODAY! TODAY!  Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12  Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd .• Suite  Hey brown eyes! Love your new  Juniors bring your parents  
TODAY!  Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  406E. Boca Raton. FL 33431,  WALKTONDI  black "park"!! Is my valentine under  
Wednesday, February 15,  Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on  3 bdrm. 1 bath ranch. New carpet­ that big golden dome. as sleepless  Baerbino, baerbino!!! I love these  
3 to5 p.m.  Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­ ing, paint & furnace. Family room  as I am? Have a heart. Just take  sandwiches-baerbino. baerbino!!!  
LeMans Hall lobby  Air & Hotel From $429! Spring  4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room - plus rec room with bar. $56,000.  that new "park" of yours to 8-5-0,  
Saint Mary's College  Break Travel 1-800-678-6386  Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ OPEN SAT., 2/18 FROM 2-4 PM.  and we'll ride from there.  Hm, Saturday night. 11 pm, I think  
DON'T FORGET TO STOP BY!II  ment needed.  1215 N. Twyckenham  FLAME  I'll go to Chicago for a couple of  
•·•woMEN'S HEALTH FAIR•••  days. Screw studying. they have  
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots!  Need ride to NJ -E. PA for spr.  Barb McHugh  pornos.  
The Lion King  PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW  break. $$Kate @2732  Coldwell Banker  Liebe Willy Tom.  
Fri & Sat Feb 17-18  ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291  277-8000, 235-3240.  lch weiss. dass es ein bisschen  Who left their mag on the bathroom  
$2 Cushing Auditorium  WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa  SUMMER JOBS  spat ist. lch will dir noch sagen.  bench? A frequenter of shower stall  
8/1030 pm  Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale.  dass ich dich so vielliebe, aber du  4 perhaps. Or was it "Glory Days"  
Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  Complete system only $499. Call  bist noch ein LOSER!!!  from the sunshine state.  
Come to the Saint Mary's  $159! Key West $229! Daytona  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Chris at 800-289-5685.  Die Schwester des Fisches  
Observer Office to place your  Room with Kitchen From $12911­ NEAR LAKE PLACID  
classifieds Monday 2-4. Tuesday 2:30-4:30. Wednesday 11:30-1:00.  800-678-6386  CALL 1-800-786-8373  TICKETS  JONNY & D-PRIME.  Egos. Egos. Egos. Egos. Smells.  
Thursday 2:30-4:30, and  RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS.  Painters. Foremen. and Managers­ LEMME AKS YOU HOW IT  
Friday 2-4.  GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  Call College Pro Painters at 1(BOO)  $NEED 2 PETTY TIX  FEELS TO  The BEAST.  
WHILE BUILDING YOUR  346-4649.  BRIAN @x1817 $$$  ROCK THE VOTE LIKE DAT.  
ILOST & FOUND I  RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ two need ride-MEMPHIS, spr.  NEED 1-2 PETTY TIX  'DABOYZ  The 'Cuse, MAN-TO-MAN!!!!!!!!  
UCT,IRRIGATION SALES AND  break,$, x1943  CALL LISA 2364  The KISS. The bounce to ectasy.  
Found: •••BIKE LOCK KEY••• On  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  HEY YOU! Ready to lose weight for  Give it to the Big Fella. The nickle  
213/95 brand name is "Rhode Gea('.  VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­ .___FO_R_RE_N_T_  __.II  PERSONAL  real? I lost over 20 lbs .• went from a size 9 to a 3 in under 8 weeks! No  dimer. Raftery Rocks.  
-Bill  X1862  265-7691  diets/drugs/exercise! All-Natural  Interested in going to the Grace  
Wanted:  ADOPTION-A LOVING CHOICE.  Tablets: guaranteed results! Kelly  dance? Some guys from 6D are  
5 students for completely remod­ We're blessed with financial securi­ (800)209-2150  dateless. Help them out by giving  
CD case FOUND in Nieuwland  TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS  eled home. Close to N.D. large rec.  ty and a Dalmatian! Mid-Western  them a call at x3075 or x1688.  
Computer Lab. Call4-1365 to  CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING  room. washer and dryer, security  couple. stay-at-home mom.  ATTN:  ACTORS/ACTRESSES  
claim.  FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS  system. Rent for summer school  Allowable expenses paid. 800-440­ Student in directing class needs  Louise,  There's hope. A  
BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH  and/or fall semester. Call NOW  6024 Tracy & Doug  you for periodic in-class and out-of­ weekend of drunken bliss with  
REWARD OFFERED for KEYS  CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS.  277-0636  class projects this semester. If you  good hook-ups is ahead.  
lost somewhere between C1  GOOD SALARY, ROOM &  have MWF from 1:15-2:05 free (and  
and the Rock. Please call  BOARD. TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.  One-way air ticket to Boston  SPRING BREAK  some additional time) and are inter­ Who is that girl who had no friends  
232-1348.  CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU.  May 13. Male name. $120  MARCO ISLAND. FL. BEACH  ested, call Mike at 4-3597 and  on Monday in Econ 125?  
2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E.  x-1814  FRONT 2 BEDROOM CONDO,  leave your name and number. All  
LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S  BOCA RATON. FL 33431 800-494­ CABLE. POOL. JACUZZI. FRONT  help will be appreciated. Thanks.  Reason why not to go to Toledo:  
PERRY ELLIS COAT AT FISHER­ 6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON  HOMES FOR RENT  BALCONY OVERLOOKS WHITE  There are too many people you  
WALSH FORMAL LAST FRI.  CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM­ NEAR CAMPUS  SANDY BEACH. OWNER DIS­ Mini-golf mania sweeps 3c.. It's a  want to do the "Pan Chenko" with ..  
CALL CINDY AT 273-5399  LAFORTUNE  232-2595  COUNT. 212-474-1414  putter's paradise.  By the way, I smell like dog ...  


Wednesday, February 15, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page II 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Minutemen picked off by Colonials, 80-78 

By JIMMY GOLEN Minutemen's 16-game winning opened a 14-point lead in the Associated Press streak and knock them out of second half before UMass the No. 1 ranking. But instead began chipping away. AMHEHST, Mass of revenge, UMass got its first The Colonials had a 77-67 
Alexander 
loss on campus in 42 games -lead with 49 seeonds to goKoul and dating back to a Jan. 8, 1992 before Tyrone Weeks' put-backN i m b o loss to West Virginia -and its cut the deficit to single digits. 
Hammons 
first loss ever at the Mullins Antoine Hart hit one of two free combined for Center. throws for George Washington, 34 points 
Kwame Evans scored 20 then Williams' basket made it before foul­
points, Koul had 18 and 78-71. ing out and 
Hammons had 16 for George Edgar Padilla and Hart each leaving their Koul Washington (16-9, 9-4 Atlantic hit two free throws before George 1 0). Lou Hoe had 22 points and Padilla hit a 3-pointer with 9.4 Washington teammates to pro­12 rebounds and Michael seconds left to make it 80-76. 
tect an 80-78 victory over No. 5 
Williams had 19 points for the UMass fouled Hart again, and Massaehusetts. Minutemen (18-3, 9-2). he missed both shots. The Colonials also beat George Washington led Weeks' tip-in made it 80-78, UMass on Feb. 4 to end the almost the entire game and but with only 0.1 seconds left 

!1.1 PERI ARNOLD 
PROFESSOR OF GOVERNMENT 
SPEAKS ON 

''DO WE REALLY NEED GOVERNMENT?'' 
Tonight 7:00p.m . at St. Edward's Hall 
BLESSED MOTHER LECTURE SERIES 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1995 
7:30P.M. 

HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
on the clock, and the Colonials only had to inbound the ball to become the first Atlantic 10 team to sweep UMass since 1992. 
Koul fouled out after 18 points with 2:20 left and the Colonials leading 71-63. 
Dana Dingle hit both free throws to cut the lead to six, but the Minutemen couldn't get any closer until the final sec­onds. 
A brief shoving match inter­rupted the game with 10:57 to go and Hoe on the floor with what appeared to be leg cramps. The officials cleared up the fracas and assessed Donta 
Bright and Evans technical fouls. 
Hoe left the court but returned a minute later to key a 10-0 Massachusetts run that cut the lead from 14 points to four, 57-53 with 7:23 left. He scored his first time down, then threw a baseball pass to set up Padilla's dunk that made it 57­47. 
Williams hit two free throws to cut it to eight and added a 3­pointer that brought UMass within 57-52 with 8:52 left. Hoe made one of two free throws before Koul got a tip-in for the Colonials' first basket in more than three minutes. 

Photo courtesy of George Washington sports information 
Senior forward Nimbo Hammons scored 34 points as the Colonials upset fifth ranked UMass. It was GW's second win over UMass. 

j Recycle The Observerj 
Speaker: 

REV. DAVID A. GARRICK, C.S.C. Assistant Professor-Communication & Theatre 
Title: "THE HUMOR OF JESUS: LIKE FATHER LIKE SON" ~I Sponsored by CAMPUS MINISTRY 
~~V'~I 
(Z\MPUS MNISfKY 

Admission free & parking on Juniper across from I lesburgh Library 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALl 

UK stumbles at home, 76-71 
By MIKE EMBRY 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Mississippi State finally beat the Wildcats of Kentucky in raucous Rupp Arena. 
Marcus Grant scored a career-high 23 points as the No. 23 Bulldogs scored a 76-71 upset Tuesday night, defeating No. 4 Kentucky for the first time in 17 games in the building. 
"This is the biggest win of my career," said Grant, a senior forward who made 6 of 8 3-pointers and had seven assists. "I've beaten Arkansas three times. It doesn't compare." 
Mississippi State (16-5, 8-3 Southeastern Conference) also regis­
tered its first victory over Kentucky in Lexington since a 77-72 overtime win in 1967. Kentucky (17-4, 9-2) had won 12 straight in Rupp Arena, including 10 this season. 
"This is very special," Mississippi State coach Richard Williams said. "I think after we have had some time to think about this, we'll really understand what a great win it was." 
Mississippi State beat Kentucky at its own game -a tenacious defense that forced the Wildcats to shoot 36 percent from the field, including 26 percent (9 of 
34) from 3-oint range. 
"We played the zone because we had to attack their pressure with a small lineup," Williams said. "You take a gamble with the zone. 

Knight reaches a milestone, IU wins 
By RUSTY MILLER Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 

Alan Henderson scored 28 points and had 11 rebounds as Indiana beat Ohio State 69-52 Tuesday night for coach Bob Knight's 300th career Big Ten victory. 
Brian Evans added 14 points and Michael Hermon 10 for the Hoosiers, 15-9 overall and 7-5 in the Big Ten. 
Indiana won its second game in a row for the first time in over a month. The Hoosiers had alternated wins and losses in their nine previous games. 
In his 24th season at Indiana, Knight improved to 300-114 in Big Ten games. 
Tony Watson scored 19 points and Rickey Dudley had 12 points and 10 rebounds for Ohio State, 5-17 overall and 1-11 in the conference. The Buckeyes have lost 10 of its last 11 and 14 of the last 17. 
The Hoosiers, who matched their total of last year with just their third road win, stretched a two-point margin at the half with a 10-2 run at the outset of the second half. 
The first two trips down, Indiana post­ed up guards Hermon and Steve Hart and each hit baskets inside. Then Charlie Miller scored his first points of the game on a 3-pointer. 
After Ohio State broke through at the 
16:57 mark on a baseline jumper by Watson, Hermon hit a 3-pointer to push the lead to 37-27. 
The Buckeyes scored the next three points before Watson picked up his fourth foul. Indiana then reeled off seven of the next nine points -Hermon, 

AP file photo Coach Bobby Knight got his 300th career Big Ten win at his alma mater, Ohio State. 
Henderson and Miller each hitting bas­kets and Henderson adding a free throw -for a 44-32 advantage. 
The lead never dipped below seven again. 
Miller, Hart and Hermon had com­bined for two points in the first half, but picked up 14 in the first 7 1/2 minutes of the second half. 
Indiana led 27-25 through an ugly first half, which had the teams combin­ing to go 1-for-8 from 3-point range, 11­of-19 at the line and total one blocked shot and nine assists. 
About the only signs of life for either team were IU's Henderson. 
~OBSERVER  
is now accepting applications for the 1995-96 General Board Any foil-time u_ndergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to john Lucas by Wednesday, Feb. 15 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4541. NEWS EDITOR ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. is responsible for generating advertising revenue. VIEWPOINT EDITOR AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have editorial writing and editing skills and an ability to Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketingeditors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. SPORTS EDITOR PRODUCTION MANAGERApplicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. Theand special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and worksresponsible for the content of the sports section each day. closely with department staff on layout and design. ACCENT EDITOR SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge ofEditor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates theresponsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertis­closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning pho­ers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with tographs. Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self-motivation. SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. CONTROLLER The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties.  


Wednesday, February 15, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

By WAYNE WOOLLEY Associated Press 
PHilADELPHIA 

Villanova's Chuck Kornegay scored six of his 14 points in overtime, including a reverse layup with 8.7 seconds left that gave No. 15 Villanova an 89-87 Big East victory over No. 11 Syracuse Tuesday evening. 
Kornegay missed a foul shot and Syracuse's Michael Lloyd drove the length of the floor as the final seconds ticked off, but his shot was blocked by Jason Lawson as time expired. 
Kornegay got the rebound after Lawrence Moten's missed shot and then scored on a tip-in at the other end of the floor to 
~STOOPS I£2 

CONQVER. 
BY OLIVER GOLDSMITH 
Performed by the juilliard School Drama Division 
Thurs., Feb. 16, 8 pm Fri., Feb. 17, 8 pm Sat., Feb. 18, 8 pm 
Reserved Seats $14 Students and Senior Citizens $10 
Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128 



~A1TltW 
-"'«..t--..~~ 
lELLIA t'lf:HANIJI£R MAHf,OT HARLEY ..\n1•11r Uil'f'l'lor F.u(•ulnt Pmdut'l'r 



JRZZMRN'S 
Nite club 
and 


Reggae Uan Promotions 
presents 

Reggae and video night Thursday, Feb 16 Featuring Rahjah 
Show time is 10 PM-Doors open at 8 PM. First 75 patrons before 9:30PM will have first choice to receive a guaranteed appearance in a Jazzman's video that will be filmed this Thursday. Call 233-8505 Wed. or Thurs. after 4 PM for advance registration for the video appearance. 
$3.00 with student ID $5.00 without ID 
You don't want to miss this exciting night of entertainment and fun. 
EVERYBODY BE THERE, MON! 
• COLlEGE BASKETBALL 


'Nova knocks off the 'Cuse, 89-87 
give the Wildcats an 87-85 lead with 1:17 remaining in over­time. 
Moten tried another 3-pointer and missed, but came up with the rebound and drove the lane for a basket to tie it with 34.9 seconds left. 
Moten finished with a career­high 36 points for the Orangemen and became the school's career scoring leader with 2,177 points, 34 more than Derrick Coleman. 
The Wildcats scored 10 points in the final 2:52 of regulation to tie the game at 80. 
Lloyd missed a driving layup as reguation ended. Kerry Kittles, the Big East's 
No. 3 scorer, and Jason Lawson each had 20 points for Villanova and Eric Eberz had 17. 
Villanova (18-5, 11-2) is undefeated since losing to Syracuse (17-5, 10-3) on Jan. 9 in the Carrier Dome. 
Syracuse took its first lead at 61-60 after Todd Burgan's steal and pass to Moten for a layup. Moten's free throw with 5:32 left capped a 16-6 run that vaulted Syarcuse into a 73-66 lead. 
The Wildcats closed to 78-74 on Alvin Williams' steal and a layup with 2:29 left, and cut it to two on Lawson's two free throws with 1:22 to play. 
•BENGAL BOUTS now open for use. The hours must attend an orientation Training occurs daily at will be Sundays 2:00-5:00 session. For more info call 4:00pm at the JACC. Anyone and Tuesdays and Thursdays RecSports at 1-6100. interested should contact from 7:00-10:00. The climb­CLIMBING WALL ORIENTA· Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. ing wall is located in the TION SESSION-An orienta­CLIMBING WALL SCHED­Rockne Memorial and any­tion session will be held on ULE -The c;:limbing wall is one interested in using it Sunday, Feb. 19 at 12:30 pm at the Rockne Memorial. If interested, call RecSports at 1· The 6100 to sign up. Spaces are limited. VARSITY lACROSSE* A sta­Fondue tistician is needed for Men's Varsity Lacrosse games. Call Coach Coorigan at 1-5108.Parlor Lacrosse experience neces· sary.Taste the Aroma ofRomance BOOKSTORE BASKET­BALL-would like to announce the new commissioners forPerfect for JPW! this year: Amy Griffin, Todd Leahy, Kara Woitkowski, JimCome & enjoy our exciting specials! Mullen, Matt Dayton, Will This Friday: Karaoke from 9:00-12:00 p.m. Martin. Bob Murray, J.P. Fenningham, Ben Magnoe, Upper Level-Old Brewery Tues-Thurs 5-9 p.m. Megan Cavanaugh, Colleen 100 Center, Mishawaka Fri-Sat 5-10 p.m. Reilly, Carrie Wieneke. 255-1526 Reservation Suggested Congratulations, and thanks to eve·ryone who applied.  
"Mandate for the New Congress" Wednesday, February 22 8p.m Stepan Center Tickets are now on sale at the LaFortune Box Office. Students $3 General Public $5 Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities, SUB and Student Government  

~. 
Solace 
continued from page 16 
with more sensational saves every game." 
Eisler is not the lone reason for Notre Dame's current two game conference winning streak. In the span of three months, Lorenz has made the transition from inconsistent front liner to up and coming superstar. 
"Terry Lorenz has worked hard from day one," said Schafer. "He finally seems to be getting rewarded for his hard work and strong effort." 
Indeed, he has been re­warded. The sophomore left wing has 10 points in his last four games, including a span of six goals in three games. He has set career highs with 11 goals and 12 assists and cur­rently ranks third on the team in points (behind Jamie Ling and Tim Harberts) and tied for second in goals. 
"Defensively, I've been doing the same things all year, and I've gotten some lucky breaks on the offensive end," said Lorenz. "But our recent suc­cess has been a total team ef­fort." 
Lorenz seems to be well on his way to being mentioned in the same breath as Michigan State's Anson Carter and Michigan's Brendan Morrison. At this point, the only hole in 

·' 
his game may be his often times incredible intensity. He sat out Saturday's game after receiving a one game suspen­sion for his role in Friday night's bench clearing brawl. 
"I appreciate that he is will­ing to protect his teammates, but he is a player that we can't afford to lose," said Schafer. "He is becoming a team leader, and I think he will have an even bigger impact in the future." 
Despite the great improve­ment that each player has made over the course of the season, both Eisler and Lorenz have set lofty goals for their hockey careers at Notre Dame. 
"Individually, I'd like to be a little more consistent offen­sively and remain steady at the defensive end," said Lorenz. "As a team, we hope to make the top six (in the CCHA) next year." 
Eisler adds, "I look forward to upsetting one of the top teams, like Michigan or Michigan State. I would also love the op­portunity to play in the NCAA tournament." 
Eisler and Lorenz are quickly becoming the foundation of a bright future for Notre Dame hockey. Indeed, the sky is the limit. 
Irish 

continued from page 16 
bounding margin, averaging more than nine boards per game more than their oppo­nents. 
Notre Dame will be without starting guard Ryan Hoover, who sprained his ankle Sunday against Kentucky. Pete Miller is expected to make his first ca­reer start in his place. 
Miller may be the spark MacLeod is looking for. Another possible change the Irish could make to shake things would be to give more playing time, per­haps even a starting assign­ment, to Matt Gotsch. 
Freshman Pat Garrity leads 
the Irish in scoring with 13 points per game and seniors Lamarr Justice and Jason Williams average about eight each. 
Keith Kurowski averaged about 10 points per game be­fore a heart problem sidelined him for more than two weeks. He saw limited action Sunday against Kentucky and his min­utes will likely continue to mount in future games as his conditioning returns to normal. 
Notre Dame still appears des­tined for an NIT bid, though it likely will have to win at least two of its remaining four games to secure that spot. Fordham in New York and Marquette and Loyola at home will com­plete the Irish schedule. 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

If you missed out on all the hype so far, don't worry. Sharon Olds speaks tonight. 
"Fabulous!! I'm 
flying in from 
London just to 

hear her again!" 
DJYoso Deliciouso 



SHARONOLDS 




SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL 
Tonight at 8pm in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Wednesday, February 15, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME 
JOHN McPHERSON 

Z/15 
A!IO /r YOU OROERNOW. 
GRf>.P\-\IC VIOLENCE. 
\)()£.5 \T GU\\1\0RI"Z.£: \)OES \T CAUSE \1\0LENCE.? \N ll-\E. MEDIA . 
~\OlENCt ;> S\JRE. \)()£5 \T ... 'NB.L, 11-\1\I'S Ot.SEt'ISITI"Z.E \.JS It) V 1-lr>.RD m PRo'/£..
' OF CO\JRSE. OOES IT 1-\t.LP
---v--:...~ 
lJS TOLERATE VIOLE:NCE? YOIJ &T. OOt.S IT ST\JI--IT
'" 
I'"· 

OVR EMPI>it\1'1 FOR 0\JR 
' 

Ft.llOW BEINGS? 1-\E.CK ~ES. 
I 

Bruce activates the new telemarketer-zap feature on his phone . 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
~------------------~6~----------~~------~ WALL'<, YOU J'UST SENT 1"\E ~ l't'\ R£RUNI\IING TI-\E ~ I-lOW LONG SIX f'I\ONTI-\5 TI-\E SAI'\E E·/"\AIL YOU SENT ~ "BEST OF WALL'<" g IS YOUR SO FAR 
1 

LAST WEEK. ~ WI-\ILE I'M. ON IN-CUBE ; SABBATICAL? P..ND YOU'RE ) ~ SABBA.TICAL. ! \ TI-\E FIRST ~~~===========f~~~ 
~ jr==~=~r~ii~O~N~O~T~I~C.~E.~. 
·~ 
w 


"' 
f 

L-_£::;;;;;;;.::;m~;;t;.LJ.___J,...J 
L---~--~~~~~--~N~------~------------­
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Ruined &a The­35 Black cuckoo Reader (eclectic 
1 Altar robes magazine)36 Tennis score5 "Wake Me Up 69 Actress Raines 
38 Shell food? 70 Genuflected
Before You 
Go-Go" group 40 French director 9 Basic Ball Game 
with ESP? 71 "Phooey!" 14 Kitty cry 44 Ziti or linguine 72 Kaiser or Parker 15NewYork 45 Mrs. David 
House college Copperfield 16 Council Bluffs 46Wind dir. 
DOWN
neighbor 47 Pillages 17 Silly author? 
49 Christmas quaff 1 Latin 101 verb 20 Like church 
50 Play the lead 2 Actress Olin music 51 Zola heroine 3 Bygone airline
21 "Dies-" 
53 Unthinking 4Helica!
22 "Help!" 
55 Write (down) 5 Quixote's 23 Traditional 
58 Peru's capital opponent
Easter fare 25 Xenia's state 
60 Kind of bread &-polloi 27 Not for the faint 64 Person with a 7 Years, to of heart polite Tiberi us 30 Senior's nest message? &Computer egg, for short 67 Actor Toomey shortcut a Acquire by accident ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1o Rocker's equipment 11 -Ski Valley, N.M. 

29 Detergent 48 Use scissors 57 Buster Brown's 12 Ending for "ah" 
brand 50 Evidence of a dog13 Occurs, 31 Word on a fistfight 59 Nick and Nora's 
poetically 
French dog
52 It makes le 
18 Q.E. 2 setting postcard 61 Go it alone 
monde go

19 Pearl Harbor 33 Pessimist's 62 "-bea cold 
round

site day in hell ..." 
phrase 54 Was impassive 

63 Actress Patricia 

24 Bette Midler's 34 Part of DKNY 55 Yank 
65Diamond­

"A View From a 37 Boo-boo 
56 Foreshadowing 66 Explosive stuff 
• OF INTEREST <,Jiri's-..mm~r internships will be the topic of a work­~hop held from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. This workshop will offer a description of the resources and techniques· students should use in seeking employment opportuni­ties for the summer months. It is presented by Paul Reynolds, Career and Placement Services associate director. A business plan contest is being sponsored by the Entrepreneur Club for prizes of $2,000, $1,000, and $500 for the best ideas for new business and improv­ing old ones. CaU Chad at 634-2084 or come to the meeting tonight at 8:30 p.m. in· the Sorin Room of LaFortune. .,.· Student Union Board applications for 1995·1996 positions are available in the student government :.office. Positions include programmers, office man­ag~rs, graphic designers. and controllers. Applications ~due Friday, February 17.  
':d:~:::;~~=. <.MENU Notre Dame North South Top Sirloin Meatball Grinder Vegetable Lo Mein Onion Rings · Grilled Flounder Tomato Soup ~£J:int Mary's i)J~:~ .. ~~~f~~:g~~d~enii'I/ $wiss Cheese Croquettes Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds  

•
39 Ending with 26 Singer Anita . seam or team 27 John Irving title 41 English school 
Get answers to any three clues 
character 42 Instigator 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
28 Barry Lyndon 43 Unpredictable 
portrayer, 1975 events 5656 (75¢ each minute). 

BILL WATTERSON 



+ 

r--------­
-"" 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, February 15, 1995 
-----·~---~ 
~---­
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Irish seek revenge on bedeviling Bulldogs 

Hope shines through for Notre Dame hockey 
By MICHAEL DAY Sports Writer 

Somewhere behind the shadows, beyond the eye of the storm, beneath the ­wreckage of a losing season, have emerged a pair of Notre Dame hockey stars. 
The duo is the future of Irish hockey. They are the little solace one gets in a 9­21-1 season. 
They are none other than sophomore left wing Terry Lorenz and freshman goaltender Matt Eisler. 
Both players are currently at the top of their games. Eisler is coming off his most remarkable performance of the season. The freshman goaltender saved 47 of 51 shots against Ohio State to earn Defensive Player of the Week honors in the CCHA. Despite the recent accolades, there was a time when the freshman goaltender struggled to make a name for himself. 
"I just couldn't get into a groove in the early part of the season," said Eisler. "It was partly because of injuries (bad ankle, pulled groin) and partly to the adjustment of college life." 
But once he got used to life and hock­ey at Notre Dame, there was nothing stopping him. Eisler and the Irish de­fense have allowed an average of just 
2.17 goals a game over their last four contests. He is a major reason why the team has catapulted to fifth in the CCHA in power play efficiency and penalty killings. 
"The team has a lot of confidence in him and has really responded well around him," said head coach Rick Schafer. "Matt seems to be coming up 
see SOLACE/ page 14 By JASON KELLY 
Associate Sports Editor 

Butler has bedeviled Notre Dame more than any other op­ponent during coach John MacLeod's tenure. 
In the last four years, the Irish have beaten UCLA twice, North Carolina, Missouri and Indiana among other highly­regarded opponents. 
But, in that same span, they have never beaten Butler. 
Last season, Notre Dame lost to Butler 67-57 at home after winning back-to-hack games against UCLA and Georgia. 
It is a drastically different scenario this season with the Irish reeling from two of the worst defeats in their history in their last three games. 
But there will be a few familiar faces. 
Like Travis Trice, Butler's leading eligible scorer who averages 11.7 points per game. The Irish will have no trouble recognizing Trice, who victimized them last year with 16 points off the bench in the Bulldog's victory. 
Junior Chris Miskel (14.9 ppg) is the team's leading scorer, but he will miss the game against Notre Dame as he completes a three-game suspension for violating team rules. 
But with or without Miskel, Butler's biggest advantage will be its size. 
With 6-5 guard Jason 
McKenzie and 7-2 center Rolf 
van Rijn, the Bulldogs boast 
one the nation's most potent 
rebounding teams. 
They lead the Midwestern · Collegiate Conference in re-
see IRISH/ page 14 
Historic Hinkle Fieldhouse will be the sight of Nofre Dame's latest attempt to regroup from a demoralizing defeat. After Sunday's 39-point loss to Kentucky, the irish (14-9) find themselves facing a team they have not beaten in four years. Butler's leading scorer Travis 
(11.2 ppg) came off the bench to score 16 in a 67-57 Bulldog win at the Joyce Center last year. Butler ( 14-8) will have a size advantage over the Irish at every position, which cou trouble for the Irish on the 
The Bulldogs lead the Midwestern Collegiate Conerence in rebounding margin, averaging more than nine boards per game more than their opponents. Ryan Hoover will not play for the Irish after sufferi ankle 

Observer File Photo 


Notre Dame sophomore Terry Lorenz has picked up the scoring pace as of late for the Irish. He is one of many key sophomores for the forward-looking Irish. 

of note...
GW UPSETS UMASS 
The 5th ranked Minutemen fell to the 
The Irish track team is in action 
Colonials for the second time this season. 
Saturday at Loftus. 
see page 11 








