
Monday, March 27, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 109 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
NewSURV Bernardin to receive Laetare Medal 
Special to The Observer Charleston in 1952 and served tion which you permitted to your former accuser was a
coordinator 
there for 14 years. When he powerful moment in your life
" ardinal Bernardin 

Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, was appointed auxiliary bishop and an important moment inannounced archbishop of Chicago, will re­of Atlanta in 1966, at age 37. has been the very the life of our church." ceive the University of Notre he became the youngest bishop The Laetare Medal is so
exemplar of the bishop

Dame's 1995 Laetare Medal in the country. He was appoint­named because its recipient isBy JESSICA BATTLE during commencement cere­ed archbishop of Cincinnati in as a pastor, teacher and announced each year on 
News Writer 
monies May 21. 1972, serving there for 10 witness to the gospel. Laetare Sunday, the fourth 
"Cardinal Bernardin has been years before being appointed Sunday in Lent. "Laetare" is he
Monday, February 27, SURV, the very exemplar of the bishop archbishop of Chicago. With this Laetare Medal, Latin word for "rejoice." Spes Unica Resource Volun­
as a pastor, teacher, and wit· Notre Dame celebrates 
teers, met to appoint a new co­ness to the gospel," Notre Dame In 1983, he received the "red Established at Notre Dame in
ordinator and to decide on the the manner in which his 
President Rev. Edward Malloy hat," which symbolizes ap­1883, the award was conceivedfuture direction of the associa­said. "With this Laetare Medal, pointment to the college of car­personal life and public as an American counterpart totion. 
Notre Dame celebrates the dinals, the central administra­the Golden Rose, a papal honor 
Sister Bettina Maria Ferraro ministry have combined 
manner in which his personal tive organization of the Catholic that dates before the 11th cen­
will serve as the future coordi­life and public ministry have church. to become a treasure of tury. The Laetare Medal is nator and guide SUHV into its combined to become a treasure Bernardin was falsely ac­awarded each year to a
the church."

fifth year of existence. "I am of the church." cused of sexual molestation in a. Catholic "whose genius has very happy to take over and November 1993 lawsuit. In no­ennobled the arts and sciences,take SURV beyond what it is," A native of Columbia, S.C., tifying Bernardin that he would Father Edward Malloy illustrated the ideals of the said Sister Bettina. 
Bernardin was ordained a receive the Laetare Medal, church and enriched the her­
Her experience on the staff priest in the diocese of Malloy wrote, "The reconcilia-take place between you and itage· of humanity." 
of the Center for Spirituality and her role as Coordinator of Mission Activity and Sister Presence has prepared her for 

Jenco discusses host~ge
her role as coordinator. Sister Bettina is committed to the issues of women and their 

experience, forgiveness 
service roles: "We're women and we need to focus more on 
the issues of women and chil­By RICK BORST into wine, but hate into love." drlln." News Writer He described how he main­
Sister Bettina and other tained his forgiving attitude members of SURV hopes to re­Father Lawrence Martin through his faith in God and cruit new members and to Jenco, once held hostage by an prayer despite the torments his work in conjunction with the extremist group of Shi'ite mus­captors forced him to endure. Notre Dame Center for Social Iims in Beirut. spoke last night "If I'm not willing [to forgive]," Concerns. at a Cavanaugh sponsored lec­he said, "I will not be forgiven, 
Several suggestions for im­ture at the Hesburgh Library I will not be at peace." provement were made by Auditorium. Father Jenco de­Jenco was faced daily with SUHV members. Some mem­scribed the hellish 564 days he the possibility of death and bers proposed improved trans­spent in captivity, stressing the torturous physical conditions. portation and increased expo­importance of faith and for­Speaking of his actual kidnap­sure. More evaluations of ser­giveness in finding peace ping, he said, "In the darkness 


vice projects will also be per­through this ordeal. of a trunk of a car, the first 
formed. lie began by speaking of the thing you think is, 'Now I'm 
Other possibilities include in­major themes of transforma­going to die."' At one point, corporating service projects as tion apparent in Jesus Christ's while being transported to an­c:omponents of classes. Accord­ministry, of "sorrow to joy... other site by his captors, his The Observer/Tina Lemker 
ing to Sister Beitina, "This is crucifixion to resurrection." body was completely taped, Beauty is in the eye of the beholder an important organization to Jenco said, "The great miracle leaving only a bloody nose un­of Jesus is not turning water Students, faculty, and community members attended the SMC see JENCO/ page 4 senior art show at Moreau on Friday night. 
see SURV/ page 4 




Asher seeks change of venue 
lesser charge of leaving the Tribune stories, as well as sto­Rita sattorney scene of an accident. ries in The Observer, the now­St. Joseph County Prosecutor defunct Mishawaka Monitor,questions fair Michael Barnes has initiated and television news reports on 
the retrial process on the Class the case. trial opportunity D felony charge. Barnes agreed with Asher St. Joseph Superior Court about Moor's column, and con­
By DAVE TYLER Judge William Albright said he curred on the amount of public­

News Editor 

hoped to make a decision on ity after the verdict. But he did Asher's change of venue motion not think that great exposure
The attorney for John Rita 

by Monday. was prejudicial, or detrimental 
argued Thursday that the 

Asher argued that coverage to efforts to find an unbiased 
Notre Dame Law School grad­

of the trial has been prejudiced panel for a retrial. 
uate could not receive a fair re­

from the outset of the case, be­The prosecutor said he 
trial in St. Joseph's County be­

cause of a false press release thought media coverage after 
cause of the publicity the case 

issued by St. Joseph County Po­the trial had been fairly bal­has received. 
lice shortly after the accident. anced. lie noted that the favor­Charles Asher is seeking to Media bias began before Rita able column about !Uta written 
have Hita's second trial on a 

was acquitted last fall, said by his former roommate ap­
charge of leaving the scene of a 

Asher. He asserted that the sit­peared in the Tribune, and was 
fatal accident moved to another 

uation became much worse not mentioned by Barnes. A 
county Rot covered by area me­

after Rita's acquittal. Asher re­similar letter ran in The Ob­
dia. Asher referred to re­

ferred to several media ac­server. 
porters covering the case as 

counts of the case in accusing Because the charge against
"mavens of misinformation." 

reporters of being too lazy to Rita is now only a Class D Rita, 25, of Springfield, Vir­
find the real story, and accused felony, a jury must only con­ginia, stands accused of leav­journalists of obtaining infor­sist of six people and a couple
ing the scene of the November mation from each other. of alternates. Barnes said he 

13, 1993 accident that killed 

Asher called a column writ­was sure eight people could be Notre Dame freshman Mara ten by South Bend Tribune found from St. Joseph County's 
Fox as she and friends walked writer Bill Moor "The stupid­240,000 who were not biased. 

along Douglas Road. Rita was

The ObserverfTina lemker 
est" account and said it con­Of the jurors from the first trial, 
acquitted by a jury of a charge
And the band played on ... 

tained "15 or 20 misstatements Barnes said there were only
of causing a death while driving 

of fact." The defense attorney two who knew nothing about
Bassist Andy Wincek and vocalist Jason Thomas performed at 
drunk. The jury was unable to 
also criticized other South Bend 
Dalloway's Coffee House on Saturday night. 

reach a verdict on a second see RITA/ page 4 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, March 27, 1995 
• INsmE CoLUMN 
Let's be morbid. • • 
Have you ever though Kathy Hausmannabout your own death? 
Assistant Campuses 
Seriously. Have you ever Editor
thought about your own mortality and how your life will end? It's not a topic I tend to think about a lot, as I'm sure most of us don't, but, tpis weekend, it was probably one of the most controversial issues with which I had to deal. 
I attended a medical ethics conference here at Notre Dame this weekend, and it really made me question a lot of my own ethical beliefs. One of the most prevalent topics discussed con­cerned physician assisted suicide. Now, I've been brought up as a Catholic and I have been taught that killing others, even if it is a 'mercy killing' as they are sometimes called, is absolutely wrong. 
However, if I was the terminally ill patient in immense pain, lying in a hospital bed with nothing left in life except death, I'm honestly not sure if I could welcome my suffering peace­fully, or whether I would beg my attending physician to end my suffering by any means. 
Physician assisted suicide cases have been • bouncing around the lower courts, and current­ly the proctice is illegal in 49 states. Personally, I think physician assisted suicide should be legalized. However, some stipulations should be made. 
I think it should be legalized through the courts, like abortion was in Roe v. Wade, instead of through legislation. That way the decision can be reversed if need be, instead of then having to deal with legislators who spend more time telling the media what they want to do than actually putting forth any effort doing it. 
With its legalization, rules would have to be made in the decision involving who would qual­ify for 'obtaining' a suicide. To begin with, a diagnosis of terminal illness should be made and an advanced directive issued. Then, for further guidelines, we could look at Oregon's Ballot Measure 16, which was passed on November 8, 1994, and which legalized physi­cian assisted suicide in the state. 
These guidelines include allowing physician assisted suicide if it is projected that the patient would only live another six months, recognizing the patient's ability to make an informed deci­sion in the matter, and ensuring that the patient has no depression or psychological dis­order that would affect their judgment. 
(Of course, there was a lawsuit filed to delay the implementation of Measure 16, and a pre­liminary injunction was granted until a judge has the opportunity to decide its con­stitutionality.) 
You may think that my opinion is rather lib­eral in this matter. You're probably correct, even though this is probably one of the few lib­eral opinions I have. However, I realize that ·ust because I'm Catholic, it does not mean that I have the right to force the entire country to follow my beliefs. People should have the right to determine their fate, and those patients find­ing nothing morally wrong with the decision to terminate their life should be allowed to do so. A physician, though, should also have the right to refuse to assist the suicide. 
Think about it. What would you want if you were the patient? 
The views expressed in the Inside Coiumn are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Amy Schmidt  Burch Cabreros  
Melanie Laflin  Margee Husemann  
Sports  Production  
Joe Villinski  Heather Dominique  
Man Casey  David Diaz  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Ton Roland  Jen Rezeli  


• Wmu.o AT A Gu~c£ 
Everybody Wins in Oscar Scenario Game 
LOS ANGELES -------··-···-··.. ..-·-·----·
·-~·­
John Travolta wins as best o·. 


~~~;~~~;::~;£F~!::~£ .• scais 
Zemeckis for best director. 
Inconceivable? Probably. Best Actor Nominees 
But when you play the Academy Award scenario game, everything and any­thing is possible. Most of the guessing on Monday night's show is just that. 
With the ballots cast and only Price, Waterhouse know­ing the tally, Hollywood's abuzz with speculation. Sometimes, the wild illogic almost makes sense. 
Take best picture. "Forrest Gump" is the heavy favorite: It has the most nominations (the best picture winner usually does), won a Golden Globe and collected the Directors Guild of America trophy, a golden bellwether. 
But listen to one anti­"Gump" scenario: Voters tired of the movie cast their ballots elsewhere and aren't likely to go for the ultra-violent "Pulp Fiction." 
"Quiz Show" and "Four Weddings and a Funeral" aren't considered "important" enough for best picture. So the underdog prison story "Shawshank Redemption" takes the top prize. 
This kind of vote-splitting makes the most sense in the 
Captain forces stowaways off ship 
NEW ORLEANS 

No one disputed what the tugboat captain did: Pointing 
a flare gun and making racial slurs, he forced three 
black stowaways to put on life jackets and jump into the 
sea off Jamaica. Capt. Patrick Kiffe said he told the men: 
"God bless you, I hope y'all make it to shore." The stow­
aways haven't been seen since. Kiffe, who is white, 
wasn't charged with racism or being a modern-day 
Captain Bligh. Prosecutors accused him of second-.degree 
murder. On March 17, Kiffe was acquitted and walked 
out of a (ederal courthouse a free man. U.S. Attorney 
Eddie Jordan says the all-white jury turned a cold shoul­
der to the victims. But jury foreman John Hammons says 
the government failed to prove guilt beyond a reasonable 
doubt. 
Shell blower proud of his conch 
KEY WEST, Fla. 
A small shell works best. Especially if it's blown every 

day. Those are the secrets of Dave Parker, champion on 
the conch. Parker won the 33rd Annual Conch Shell 
Blowing on Saturday with renditions of "Sentimental 
Journey" and the "Sabre Dance." Parker said the secret 
to playing "good conch shell" is to procure a small one, 
"to try to minimize the air leakage when you put your 
lips on the mouthpiece." A 35-year-old dive charter boat 
operator by day and percussionist by night, Parker was 
among 36 contestants who teased tunes and other 
sounds from the tightly coiled mollusk shells. 
Contestants in five age categories were judged on clarity 
of tone, range, loudness, duration of sound and some­
thing politely termed "novelty sounds." Parker said he 
wasn't surprised to be the grand champion. "This is a 
working conch shell and we use it to call the snorkelers 
back to our boat," said Parke. 

best actor race, arguably one of the closest contests. 
Tom Hanks, "Forrest Gump," is the favorite, but does his win last year work for him? Maybe not. History doesn't favor back-to-hack winners. 
Here's one alternative to the Hanks-as-shoo-in theory: 
Paul Newman, up for "Nobody's Fool," hasn't won in nearly a decade (1986's "The Color of Money"), and he's an Academy darling as winner of the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award last year. 
So Hanks and Newman split the mainstream vote. 
Travolta is already a senti­mental favorite with his huge comeback in "Pulp Fiction." A vote for Travolta is a safe vote for a "rebellious'" film. 
But  don't  count  out  the  
actor's  actor:  Morgan  
Freeman.  

That's the beauty of Oscar: You can make a case for just about anyone. 
Except Nigel Hawthorne, the other best actor nominee. Nobody's made a case for him. 
With best actress (Jessica Lange in "Blue Sky"), .;up­porting actor (Martin Landau in "Ed Wood") and sup­porting actress (Dianne Wiest in "Bullets Ovt·r Broadway") looking like sure things, only a few major categories are up for debate. 

Monday, March 27. 
1Z3 8 
SNOW ICE 

Maryland smoking ban to start 
ANNAPOLIS, Md. 

Don't expect the ash trays to disappear from Baldwin & Claude Antiques when Maryland's smoking ban begins Monday. "If customers want to spend some money in this shop and they want to smoke, they are welcome to smoke," said Ron Baldwin, co-owner of the shop a block from the state capitol. At the General Motors plant in south Baltimore, they are taking it seriously. No more smoking on the assembly line. Period. "We told every­body, 'Come Monday, you go outside. You can't smoke in the plant,"' said Jeff Kuhlman, a spokesman for GM's truck group in Pontiac, Mich. The new Maryland regu­lations make up one of the strongest anti-smoking stances in the country: They apply to factories, stores. malls, offices, schools, prisons, state buildings, clubs. 
Three dead in Seneca shootout 
CATTARAUGUS INDIAN RESERVATION, N.Y. 
Nearly 150 years of tribal solidarity against the outside world has unraveled in a few months in a deadly power struggle among Seneca Indians. Three Senecas died in a weekend gunfight, a result of a feud between one faction pushing to expand the tribal economy and a second which feels that would cultivate greed and destroy tradi­tional values. "I do believe that we are in a civil war," said Karen Bucktooth, a faction leader. "There is such a split in our people, I don't know if it's healable." The Senecas' Cattaraugus reservation, 30 miles south of Buffalo, was quiet Sunday, a day after a shootout between supporters of Bucktooth and Dennis Bowen, who both claim to be tribal president. Each side blames the other for the violence, which killed three Bucktooth supporters. The dispute has divided families: n<f charges were filed but police said a suspect in the shootings is a son of one of the slain men. 
• NATiONAl WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon. 


Pressure 
H L EB lSSI !nl 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.SIDRMS 
Atlanta  73  55  Dallas  70  48  New Orleans81  65  
Baltimore 60  37  Denver 45  22  New York 54  36  
Boston  49  34  Los Angeles 7 4  52  Philadelphia 58  36  
Chicago 46  38  Miami  80  67  Phoenix 78  49  
Columbus 56  36  Minneapolis 41  36  St. Louis 65  53  


0 
FLURRIES 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Via Associat9d PrBsS GraptucsNel 01995 Accu·Weather. Inc 
.------------------------------------~-----~ -----­
Monday, March 27, I 995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
SMC group discusses GLND/SMC 
By SHANNON CRUNK 
News Writer 
A group of Saint Mary's fac­ulty and students met Friday afternoon to discuss how the Saint Mary's community can respond to the struggles of the GLND/SMC community in their efforts to gain recognition. 
Dr. Max Westler of the En­glish department opened the discussion. He expressed the sentiment that "homophobia is a disease of the soul and it is the right thing to stand up against it." 
He emphasized the impor­tance of doing "the right thing" and opened the floor for dis­cussion and questions concern­ing GLND/SMC. 
The discussion group, com­posed of students and faculty sympathetic to the struggles of GLND/SMC, focused on the best way Saint Mary's coufd help GLND/SMC as they struggle for recognition. 
After some debate concerning Saint Mary's official position on the homosexual organization, the group decided to meet di­rectly with members of GLND/SMC in another open dis­cussion. 
The group hopes that another meeting would enable GLND/SMC to voice its concerns in a sympathetic group setting. 

EARN UICK CASH! WORK CATERIN OR GRADUATIO 




May 13-21 
Free Room & Board $625 

per hour 
Housing sign-ups M-F 10:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. **Special sugn-ups Sat. 41111:00 a.m.-4:00p.m.** Catering Office-Basement, South Dining Hall 631-5449/8792 

Last day to sign housing contract is 413! Current Catering Students need to sign up in order to Graduation. 
Appearing at Saint Mary's College O'Laughlin Auditorium 7:00p.m. Ticket sales for SMCIND students Q.Dl;)!.., beg1n March27 &28 Ticket sales for the general public begin March 29 Tickets on sale at O'Laughlin Box Office x4625 
53.00 SMONI> Sn-.tll; S4.00 SMCINO P"""'lty/St&m $6.00 S<onlor Ctu...,,.., $8.00 a.-...... Publlo 
Former talk show host enters GOP race 
By DOUG WILLIS Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Alan Keyes, a radio talk show host and foreign affairs aide to President Ronald Reagan, en­tered the race for the Republi­can nomination for president Sunday. 
The 44-year-old host of "America's Wake-Up Call" on WCBM in Owings Mills, Md., announced his candidacy at the convention of the California Re­publican Assembly, a coalition of more than 100 grassroots conservative clubs in California. 
Keyes, who was a State De­partment policy planner and ambassador to the U.N. Eco­nomic and Social Council for the Reagan administration, said he would make abortion the No. 1 issue of his campaign, and he accused two other GOP presidential hopefuls -Sen. Phil Gramm and commentator Pat Buchanan -of "putting it on the back burner." 
Buchanan appeared before the same group Saturday and spoke against abortion. Gramm was to follow Keyes before the convention later Sunday. 
"Abortion is morally wrong. It epitomizes the central issues of our time," Keyes said. 



Cancun Palace 
Room 862/864 
John, Bob, Matt & Mike wish you good luck this semester, see you in 19961 
(see Lost &Found ad) 

T 

~IK ~ n®IK JRlUN§ 
PLUS 
lMILEWALK SATURDAY, APRIL 1, 11:00 AM STEPAN CENTER 


T·SHIRTS TO ALL I{EGISTRANTS REGISTEI{ IN ADVANCE AT RECSPOI{TS $5.00 IN ADVANCE $6.00 I>AY OF RACE STUDENT AND STAFF I>IVISIONS 
ALL PROCEEDS TO BENEFIT 
OOIRII§'ll'lV.IA§ liN AIPIR~ ~ SPONSORED BY ~~t"Kx/] tPm.,.,~-~ k4G~~~ ~ 
Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. Low airfares to Europe. 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office! No ·service fee! Timetables, prices, tickets available! 
*Car Rentals Discounted car rentals! Available in all European Countries! 
*Experience Over 20 years experience working with Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students and faculty travelling to Europe. 
We know Europe~ let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus­(219) 271-4880 
-------~---~~~--------------....... 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, March 27, 1995 

Jenco Pope likens abortion Panetta: Clinton will 
continued from page 1 
to attack on democracy veto GOP welfare plan 
covered to allow breathing. 
All of this would have dehu­manized him without his faith, according to Jenco. "When you're chained to a radiator," said Jenco, "you have a sense of being an animal." But through prayer he claims to have remembered his humani­ty and ministerial purpose. 
During this captivity Jenco maintained a sense of humor that was prevalent throughout the lecture. He recalls asking a fellow hostage while writing a letter dictated by his captors concerning his possible execu­tion, "Is the proper English 'hanged' or 'hung'?" 
His experiences as a hostage taught him to see things differ­ently. He asked, "Do we ever give praise to a gentle God for the marvelous gift of laugh­ter?" After being blindfolded whenever in the presence of another human being for six months, he asked the same thing of sight. Before this he thought that such closeness to death would cause him to ruminate over his sinfulness. Instead, he found himself "telling God how beautiful God is." 
But the main thrust of his lecture was embodied in a touching story regarding one of his guards. The guard asked Jenco, after months of keeping him imprisoned, "Do you forgive me?" Jenco responded that he did. 
He compared it to the story of the prodigal son in the Bible. Jenco and the guard were "two sons come home to their hearts." Both had to for­give each other; Jenco for the guard's kidnapping of him and the guard for Jenco's anger and hatred at being kid­napped. Jenco said that this had to be unconditional, with­out any regard for the future behavior of the guard. According to Jenco, this event was a transformation from hostility and anger to rec­onciliation. 
SURV 
continued from page 1 
college life and students, and I would like to see how it goes." 
Those present at the meeting were pleased with the progress of SURV. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale PTU.e... List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. Kiuhington, Chicago, ll. 60602 For a FtYt 32-l'agr Color Calalor T!J/1-F~Yr (800) 922-0090 F;tX (J/2) 977-0U/J 
if•t~mtt CIIIIIJor tJ/ bttp: llwww.sa!Hct..com/stJfHd 
By FRANCES D'EMILIO 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY 
Previewing an encyclical on life to be made public this week, Pope John Paul II on Sunday portrayed the accep­tance of 
. abortion and euthanasia as threats to democracy and peace. 
The docu­ment, called "Evangelium
vitae.. Pope John Latin for Paul II Gospel of Life 
risked alienating even further the liberal wing of the Roman Catholic Church in the West. 
John Paul told a crowd in St. Peter's Square that the encycli­cal was written after wide con­sultations with bishops around the world. He called the docu­ment "a meditation on life, as grasped in the fullness of its natural and supernatural di­mensions." 
The pope said he was worried about a growing "culture of death," despite some signs of hope, including opposition to war and public objections to human rights violations. 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton will reject any welfare bill coming out of Congress that removes the safety net for children, White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta said Sunday. 
Panetta said the presidential veto :Cilt>uld also be wielded against Republican tax cut and crime bills. "There are places where we are going to draw lines," he said. 
Panetta, speaking on NBC's "Meet the Press," said the GOP welfare bill that emerged from the House last week was "weak on work requirements and very tough on children. We want to basically reverse those priori­ties." 
The House legislation, which faces an uphill battle in the Senate, aims to slash $66 bil­lion from the federal welfare budget over five years by turn­ing over to the states manage­ment of social programs. 
"If they intend to block-grant the school lunch program, and the school breakfast program, and the food stamp program and programs that we think are necessary in order to assist nutrition for children, then there is no question that the president would object to those proposals," Panetta said 
-had been expected to be released late last year. But the pope apparently wanted more time to review it, and the Vatican said it will be released Thursday. Encyclicals are reserved for the most important papal declarations. Italian media reported Sunday that the pope had considered almost up to the last minute putting the papal stamp of infallibility on the document. That would have given even more weight to the church's condemnation of abortion and  NOTRE DAME FORUM ON ACADEMIC LIFE "Theology in a  
other issues of morality. But such a move would have likely Rita  Catholic University"  
continued from page 1 the case. The other 10 said they either knew some of the facts or had formed some opin­ions about the case. "There's no constitutional right to be tried to be tried by a jury of mushrooms," said Barnes. The general public has a short memory, said Barnes. He noted that a retrial would not take place until August in all likelihood, 10 months after the first trial. Barnes also noted that Ash­er's success in the first trial should serve as testimony to the non-bias of area jurors. If a change were to be granted pos­sible sites include Howard, Wabash, Allen, Steuben, or Newton counties. The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report.  Speaker: Prof. Richard P. McBrien Department of Theology Respondent: Prof. Naomi M. Meara Department of Psychology Tuesday, March 28, 1995 7:30p.m. CCE Auditorium Sponsored by the Faculty Senate All are Welcome.  
TEACHING AND RESEARCH ABROAD!!! Announcing The Fulbright Competition for 1996-97. All freshmen, sophomores and especially juniors interested in Graduate Study Abroad, don't miss the informational meeting with Professor A. James McAdams Monday evening, April 3, 1995 at 7:00pm in room 126 DeBartolo ******A Great Notre Dame Tradition of Winning Fulbrights******  

-
. 
Monday, March 27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Keenan's 'Diversity Day' challenges racism 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writ~r 
Race relations at Notre Dame have taken steps towards im­provement but cannot be per­fected, according to a panel of students gathered to discuss issues as the final event of Keenan llall's "Diversity Day". 
The panel, composed of seven students of diiTering racial and ethnic background addressed a radally diverse, standing-room only crowd in the Keenan Commons. 
According to moderator Steven Bordenkircher, the pur­pose of the panel discussion, "isn't really to change minds, but more to open minds." 
The discussion began with the panel introducing them­
. selves and talking about their ethnic background. The crowd and the panel seemed slightly uncertain what to expect from the discussion. 
The Latino perspective was represented by MariaPia AI­tavilla, a freshman. She noted the difference between Notre Dame and the University of Cal­ifornia system. 
"The UC system is much more open to different cultures," she said. Some examples that she gave were multi-ethnic celebra­tions that occur on holidays in the California system that do not happen at Notre Dame. 
Rochelle Stewart, an African­American senior, indicated that racism is "not what you say, but how you say it." To illus­trate this point, she cited an incidence of racism with a hall rector who told her something to the effect of "You people are always causing trouble." She brought forward the idea that the University is taking tiny steps towards alleviating racism, but it is not enough. 
The discussion then turned to on-campus clubs and organiza­tions. Reymundo Diaz, a fresh­man, indicated that most of the clubs provide support for those students who are alone in their experience Notre nority perspective students. Keith talked of a prejudicial statement that was made to him at a hall dance. 
A debate over the validity of interracial dating brought up the idea that one had to look past ethnicity to see the person inside. However, the question was worded incorrectly and led the room to erupt with com­ments from people in the audi­ence denouncing the idea of ig­noring their heritage and "look­ing past their race." This led to a question as to 

The Alumni-Senior Club is hiring BARTENDERS for the 95-96 season. Pick up applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. Must be 21+ by September, 1995. DEADLINE: March 31, 1995  at Dame. He said that as a Native whether one could eliminate American, he found that he racism altogether. This was "has a common bond with the answered by a majority of the group members [of NASAND]." five original panelists with a re­Other elements of racial rela­sounding, no. tions at Notre Dame were ad­Rochelle said that, "you can­dressed by Keith Mallett, an not eliminate racism because it African-American senior, and is part of your background." Mai Ly, an Asian-American Human Rights and Cultural sophomore. Diversity Week is an annual Mai told the audience about Keenan Hall and Lewis Hall the "minority visitation day" event that ends in a Mass and during which she was clumped dinner in Keenan Hall on Sun­together with all the other mi-day. The Observer is now accepting applications for the following positions: Viewpoint Copy Editors Assistant Viewpoint Editors Please submit a one-page statement of intent and experience to Michael O'Hara in 314 LaFortune by 3 p.m. on Friday, March 31. Any questions call631-4541.  
ASIAN AMERICAN ASSOOATION PRESENTS ITS ••• 2ND ANf\UAL ASIAN HERITAGE YEEK FEATURING: Le Ly Hayslip, author of ·when Heaven and Earth Changed Places.· and ·child of War. Woman of Peace: Her novels were the basis for Oliver Stone's movie ·Heaven and Earth:  
APPEARING TONIGHT! 7:00 p.M. SPEAKING ENGAGEMENT 1\EaPTION AND BOOKSIGNING TO FOLLOY 101 DEBARTOLO HALL $1.00  Lowest pnce ever on the Power Book 500 aenes. Right now is the perfect time 10 buy an Apple" PowerBoo~ computer. Prices have never been lower. And that makes our special deals for students even more irresistible. Ofcourse, every Powerllook in the 500 series is ready for PowerPC'" upgrades, the RISC-based technology of the future. And with SoftWindows'" software from Insignia Solutions~ you can use applications for DOS and Wmdows as weU. Plus, for alimited '­time, you can get ahandsome Austin Caseworks carrying case. But the A 1 -most important news ofall is they're av.lilable now. So visit us today. pple -Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 'SoftWindows soCntrm ITum Insignia Solutions ,which 15 ustd to run Ms.DOS 6.2 and Wind~ j.l, comes bundled with certain fbwtr8ook configurations tfrtc Austin Case11.urks cmylng !Zt,:1 suggtMed rt!tall valut of'S90, with the purclwe of any ftw."erBook computer ~ :1 !o:~lespeoon for tTl(a Information Cll995 Apple Compmer, Inc. All rights~. Apple,the Apple logo. :~nd Poto'efBook m rqlstemltracknurlu ofApple Computet; loc. 1\rt.'t!'PC is atlikie­mark of'lmm~:~tiorul Busint:S$ Machines CcxporaUon and used under limlsc therdrom. Windows 15 atl1demalir. of Mlcrosoi Corporation and SohWiru:Jm.'s Is atrademark UJed under lkense by Insignia from Micro$o~ Corporation. Mentkm of non·Aprk produru 15 ror lnfonnatlonal purpo$1:5 ontv and constitutts nrl ther an endotxrnl=m nora recommendation. Prices art set by individual dealm and may vary.  


---~------------~-------·~-------------------~-. 
page6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, March 27, 1995 



Chernobyl could explode again 
Associated Press Wales. the report were granted 
Falling debris could also unprecedented access to the LONDON damage the No. 3 reactor, Chernobyl plant. 
The damaged Chernobyl nu­break coolant pipes and cause It said the report was being clear plant could explode again, a partial nuclear core melt­suppressed by European Union sending another plume of high­down, The Observer said. officials who are battling with ly radioactive dust over Europe, Either way, it is likely that Ukrainian politicians over the The Observer reported Sunday. another plume of highly ra­cost of cleaning up Chernobyl. 
The newspaper quoted a dioactive dust would be sent Western governments and report funded by the European over Europe, the report con­scientists want the plant closed. Union that said the dividing cluded, according to The Cash-strapped Ukraine badly wall between Chernobyl's Observer. needs the electricity it gen­burned-out No. 4 reactor and The newspaper said scientists erates and wants Western cash the still functioning No. 3 reac­from six French, German and and expertise to help build re­tor was becoming instable. British companies who wrote placements. 
If the wall ............~..........................................
collapsed, it could send debris crashing through the concrete 
Seniors: 
sarcophagus built around the irradiated No. 4 reactor 
Looking for a Job? following the April 1986 explosion and fire at the 
• Come to Career and Placement Services
Ukrainian nuclear com­plex. 
once a week. 
The world's worst nuclear disaster spewed tons of 
• Pick up the new listing of current job
radioactive 
material over 
vacancies -updated weekly.
more than 10,000 square miles. Traces were found as far away as 
• Don't miss out on new job vacancies. 
Scotland and 



"!~pend your 
·.·(\)::::·
......... ·.·· ·.·.·.·.··.·.·s·urnmer on
.. .. 


First Lady discusses gender discrimination 
ByNANCYBENAC making "a frontal assault on fusociared Press institutional discrimination against women in our society." ISlAMABAD, Pakistan Neither woman is without 
Meeting as one tough her share of critics, however, woman to another, Hillary and Mrs. Bhutto wryly took Rodham Clinton and Pakistani note of that when she told Mrs. Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto Clinton, "women who take on pledged a 
tough issues and stake out new mutual territory are often on the re­determina­ceiving end of ignorance. I can tion Sunday personally attest to that." to help She added: "You are both women tough and a great leader." improve The opulence of the prime their lot in minister's residence and the life. prominence of her women 
One on one Clinton guests -businesswomen, and in pub-politicians, judges and doctors lic, two of among them -stood in stark the world's best-known women contrast to the place of most displayed what appeared to be impoverished Pakistani a genuine kinship as Mrs. women. Clinton began her 12-day tour of South Asia with a trip to the Bhutto's critics say her gov­prime minister's sprawling ernment has failed to live up to white hillside residence. her lofty words and that there 
"I know that much remains has been no significant to be done in every society, in progress in improving the sit­both of our countries, to ensure uation of women in this male­that women assume their right­dominated society. Many Pak­ful place and are given the op­istanis also are disappointed in portunities to exercise their her failure to revive a stagnant rights, but I am very optimistic economy and contain violence by what I see happening in the and corruption. world," Mrs. Clinton said at a "Mrs. Bhutto has been an in­five-course luncheon for promi­competent leader and her gov­nent women hosted by the ernment is having a negative prime minister. effort on most Pakistanis, es­
The Harvard-educated Mrs. pecially women," said Abida Bhutto said her government is Hussein. 

~ HOOPS '­
.••'• SHOOT OUT 
Tuesday, March 28, 7:00 PM Joyce Center 
• Games to 15 Points 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST 
• Head to Head Competition 
• Double Elimination 
Looking for a place to stay during: 
,... J'L9HfAun~ft1llhd? <~ ~~~atUfli Weekend? <~ Weddings? <~Home Football Games? Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•Accomodates 
up to 14 


Available to Show by Appointment Call Helenfor More Information @ 219 287-8163 

Monday, March 27, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Motor voter law gains status EU nations abolish 
By DAVID MORRIS "We're registering (voters) by added in all of 1992, when in­Associated Press the carload down here," said terest was high because of the 

border standards 
WASHINGTON 
Americans are taking advan­tage of a simplified voter regis­tration law and signing up at a record pace this year. A signifi­cant percentage of them are snubbing the major parties in favor of third parties or inde­pendent status. 
In the South, Republicans are making strong gains, contrary to the GOP theory that the Democratic Party would be the beneficiary of the federal "motor voter" law, which al­lows registration at motor vehi­cle bureaus, welfare offices and other agencies. 
Not since the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which removed obstacles that had kept many blacks from voting, have so many new voters signed up. 
Andy Bowen, a voting official in Georgia. 
In all of 1994, 85,000 people registered to vote for the first time in Georgia -which fea­tured a high-profile governor's race -or signed up in a new district there after moving. From Jan. 1, 1995, when the law took effect, and March 13, 128,322 registrations or ad­dress changes were filed. Most of the change came in Republi­can strongholds. 
Georgia, which expects to add 1 million new voters by November 1996, is not alone in its success, according to an As­sociated Press survey of states complying with the law. 
In just two months, West Virginia signed up 6,250 new voters -more than 60 percent of the 10,000 registrations presidential campaign. 
637,429 voters in 27 states signed up at motor vehicle departments, public assistance agencies, libraries and military recruiting offices between Jan. 1 and the end of February. The actual number will be much higher, since some states had figures for only one month, some had numbers from only one or two counties and some had not yet compiled ligures. 
Five states -California, Pennsylvania, Michigan, Illinois and South Carolina -are light­ing the motor voter program in court and several others have not yet started their programs. 
Even without the participa­tion of some of the biggest states, it appears millions of new voters will be eligible to vote in the 1996 presidential election. Demographic informa­tion about these potential vot­ers is not available, but most experts forecast a big jump in the number of younger voters, who are the most frequent cus­tomers at drivers' license offices, and poorer people who sign up through public-assis­tance agencies. 
Richard Cloward, executive director of Human Serve, a New York-based voter registra­tion organization, estimates as many as 20 million of the 70 million voting-age Americans who are not registered will be signed up by November 1996. 
By RAF CASERT 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS 
In a move lauded as a break­through in the European Union's drive for unity, border controls between seven EU na­tions are being abolished on Sunday. 
Travelers will be able to keep their passports in their pockets when moving from any one of the seven-France, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Lux­embourg and the Netherlands -to another. 
Greece, Italy and Austria are expected to join them in June. 
But the move comes five years after it was originally scheduled, and it's on a much smaller scale: Several EU members are unready or un­willing to join borderless Eu­rope. 
Britain, ever the halfhearted EU member, has vowed to stay out, and because of its customs links with Dublin, is expected to keep Ireland effectively out as well. 
The three other EU members, Denmark, Sweden and Finland, have yet to announce their intentions, but they are expect­ed to abolish the controls, too. 
The most visible impact Sun­day will be in the seven nations' airports. 
Big airports have had to 
adapt their infrastructure to separate the new 'internal' European flights from others. 
Passengers flying from Ham­burg to Paris, for example, will not have their passports checked, whereas those flying from London to Brussels will have to brave long lines for passport controls. 
So will travelers crossing so­called external borders, such as those between Germany and its neighbors, Poland and the Czech Republic, where security is being beefed up. 
"We would be really happy if light traffic would prevail in the first days while the new control systems are broken in," said Volker Amler, spokesman of the German Border Police in 
the  eastern  regions,  on  
Deutschlandradio Berlin.  
"This  weekend,  no  one  

should start a trip into the (eastern) neighboring countries unless absolutely necessary," he said. 
Celebrations this weekend are muted, reflecting the EU's lack of unanimity. 
"The situation is not satisfac­tory," said EU Internal Market Commissioner Mario Monti. "Our goal is clear: We are aim­ing at the abolition of personal controls throughout the Union." 
It will be years overdue. 

SYRACUSE ABROAD 
Fall Semester Applications Still Being Accepted Discover England, France, Italy, Spain or Zimbabwe: 
~ 
Your world doesn't have to end 

where your campus does. 
""" :7' 
• 
Earn academic credits while taking classes in your host country language or English 

• 
Study for a semester, year or summer 

• 
Travelling seminars and field trips 

• 
Internships 

• 
Course offerings in African American Studies, Anthropology, Architecture, Art History, Communications, Language Studies, Management, Studio Arts, Women's Studies and many others ... 

• 
Over 200 Study Abroad Grants and Scholarships awarded each semester . 



• You are invited to join us for the first of ongoing
(ZMPUS 
luncheon gatherings
MINISID' 
to discuss and learn about our faith. 
Power 

" 
Get a "Grab 'NGo" 

l'v1arch 29 
12:20 p.m. to I:00 p.m. 
tII t~1irs in the Faculty Dining R\1\llll ab\Wl' thl' S\1uth Dining Hall 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD e119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 1-800-235-3472 • 315-443-3471 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 


0 'MALLEYAWARD 
1995 UNDERGRAD PROFESSOR OFlliE YE4R AWARD 
HAVE YOU EVER HAD mATPROFESSOR mAT YOU'll NEVER FORGET; mATPROFESSOR THAT AlADE YOU WANT TO LEARNl 
Nomination forms are now available for the 1995 O'Malley Award recognizing greatness in undergraduate education. The winning professor receives an award of $1000! 
Forms are available in the Student Government 
Office, 2nd floor of LaFortune. All forms are due 
·~ Ass0 Wednesday, March 29th. 
S~JN>~
..!:] ~· Questions? Call Thad at 631-6283. ~ :::J 


SPONSORED BY STUDENT GOVERNMENT AND THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
or Bring Your Tray 

Monday, March 27, 1995
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


The Best Way To Save Money On Stuff 
(Other Than Borrowing Your Roommate's.) Roommates tend to get weird when you borrow their stuff. (They're funny 
like that.) Better to get yourself a MasterCard® card. Then 
you could use it to buy the things you really want. And with these College MasterValues® coupons, you'll save up to 40%. And until you get your own place, it's the smartest thing you can do. Roommates are weird 
enough as it 1s. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money.TM 


r------------------------------,-------------------------------~-------------------------------r-----------------.------------, 
i ~ i :1!~.:
: ~~·r:ruNNfll SPORTS. SAVE25%0NTHEBEATLES' : JIRTCJIRYED : CRUISE AND SAVE, PLUS 
-""' GREATEST HITS ON CD : c.,.,.,,.,,, 
RECEIVE A FREE FANNY PACK* 
Choose either the Red album, with hits from 1962 I Cruise the "Fun Ships'" and save up to $400 per
SAVE UP TO $120
FREE Pair of Shorts (A $23 Value) to 1966 (26 hits including: A Hard Day's Night, cabin on 3-or 4-day cruises when you use your Ticket To Ride and Help) or the Blue album, 1967 Your college ring, from ArtCarved, is a keepsake MasterCard~ card. Cruise for as little as $299 per
Run away with savings and our shorts, too. Receive 
to !970 (28 hits including: Sgt. Pepper's Lonely you'll always treasure. Save S30 on !OK gold, $60 penon. 3rd and 4th passengers cruise FREE' Call a FREE pair ofshorts (a 123 value), when you pur­Hearts Club Band, All You Need Is Love, and on 14K gold or S120 on 18K gold. Call 1-800-1-800-352-3454 for information and bookings.
chase 165 or more on your next catalog order and 
Revolution). Buy one 2-CD set for 125.98 (a 131.98 952-7002 for more details. West Coast callers dial: 1-800-633-0220. 
use your MasterCard~ card. Call 1-800-55 I -5558 
value) or get the pair of CD sets for 147.98. To : Ask for COLLEGE M:uterValues• Savmgo;! Offer v21.Jd on selected satlmgo;
for a free catalog or to place an order. Mention offer 
1 through 1995, holicby bbckoutt apply. Must book by 5/31/95. Offer viDd #RRP-0720. 1 Offer valid 2/1/95 to 5/31/95. Offer v.bd only on purchases usmga MasterCard' card Ratd are perperiOn, double 
order call1-800-313-3323. 
1 only on purch4ses usmg a MasterCard• card. occupancy, cru1sc-unly wnh au add-ons av.Wable Offer v.bd 211195 to 5/31/95. Offer vahd only c10ll..EGE '!;r~~1/:~~eo'ff!d~n\~~ COll..EGE 1 Coupon nuy nut be combmed wuh any (.Ol..LEGf Port durgt-s/fees and taxes are add.Jaorul Offer (Ol.LfGE on purclwcs usmg a MasterCa~ car~. Coupon e) ~combined ~th any other offer or d.Jscounl Oe) I ",pthp,ly",o"",P",.".,"n'g~~dohu•nn•.dlionffig'.', donu~. "o"n: Oe) subjeCt to .ava:tb.b,iJry an~ not combmilile With 0ce0
cannot bt-combmed Wlth any other discounts, · Shi d handlin addiri na1 (S3 50 • 1 hit .... .... .. · • any other Wscount Slup s Reguuy L1bena, • pomtsoroffen One free p.Urofdtom ·AA-.........---: .~ ~nrn~e U.S.A.fP!e.ase ~dd·a ~cabf:~es ..4..__:::::--.7" 1 order per person. Some hmiurions m.1y apply. A~.~ ~L.r£1 Bahamas *Double-Zipper nylon 'parachute "AA~.:::::--,--;: pcrcustomer ·r~lEJVa~ taX..0ffervoidwhereprohibued. pp •r~\ue') 1 •rU>lerVO.I\JC., 1 p.ackw!thbloiCkadJU~tablewatststr.lp •rld:SlE!rW~ 
L------------------------------~-------------------------------~-------------------------------L------------------------------J
i Pil'1 ~· i
T I M E W A R N I R 
[IL::r..·~ ::vi}P::~~ l lor a change v~~;:_ $~ : MOTOPHOTO 
. ... ..~ ..,..~,.........~ Save 15% On Your Next Purchase , 
1
Your dorm or apartment could use a few changes. GET ONE VIDEO FREE 
50% Off Film Developing
Save 40% You could use a good deaL Pier I can supply both. WHEN YOU BUY THREE : Hold on to the good times and your money, too.
Join the club ...and save 40"/o off the 125, three-year mem­We'll take IS% off your total purchase ofall regular Video values just for you! Enjoy a full selection of : 
MotoPhoto...the best place for better pictures guar­
beriliip fee when you use your MasterCar<f-card. Enjoy price items, from colorful pillows to fun framed art. top-quality videos at discount prices. All videos are I anteed! Take 50% off the regular price of processingdiscounts of up to 50% on contact lenses, glasses, designer All the supplies school calls for, plus 15% off when priced at 19.95 or less and are 100% satisfaction guar-: 
and printing when you use your MasterCard" card.
sunglasses and much more at "America's #1 Vision Care you use your MasterCard«< card at Pier 1. anteed. Act now and get one video FREE when you I Call 1-800-733-6686 for the location nearest you. 
Service". For more details, call 1-800-USA-LENS and 
~e~:"~~~;~g;;/~~3~~~~!e;:C~ ~:~ha:X:c~ buy three and use your MasterCard00 card. Call : Limit 1.
mention offer #101. 
excludescleannceandsale•tems,dcliveryandothersemcecharges.Coupon 1-800-862-7100 for your FREE catalog and ask for I 
Offer iind coupon valid 2/1/95 to 5/31195. Cash redemption value 
must be redeemed .u the rime ofpurch.ase. Offer does not apply to pnor the COLLEGE MasterValues" offer. 1 
1/20. Offer valid only on purchases using a MasterCilrd& urd. Lmut
purchases and unnot be used to purchase Gift I Certificates. Coupon is not _valid Ill combmanon dOllEGE Offer valid 2/1195 to 5/31/95. Offer valid only (Ol.LfGE =~c:::~dt~;~~~~~ff~rc:~~o~:~~~bmed COl.LfGEg:~~ ~~0c~~:nv~~ci:~9~~~:~3l/95. withanyo~e.rcouponordiscount.Couponis .) rchases ~ard Offi I process, 35 mm film, and sum:hrd size pnnts ~..a_~
u•)
MasterC.artt-card. Offer void where vai.Jd at all P1er 1 company stores and paraci-::~be ,:::n:d with any orher ~ffer :r I only. O.ff"erv.Wdatpartlclpiiringstoresonly "-· ~ ./

cii0 1 
prohibited by law. patmg franchise stores. Coupon #446. discount. Offer valid for U.S. residents only. "A~.~~~ 1 
~ 1 Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon. ~lue') Void where prolubued. •r~~., : Offer Not Valid Without This Coupon. ~ 
r---------~~--------~-------1~~()-()~THE-R()sE:------;-------------------------------r--~~~t;~~,~~~ll~~lf--~ 
ffA~CC SAVE UP T~~; ' THE WAL~ STffREET JOURNAL. K~!;;,~~~L<?J:.~;~mi<?,~e~~~r
S $2 0
ave 0 D r assette 49<}o 0 A Special of .nft, fitness, recreational, travel, apparel and more.
Show the special people in your life how much 2 k S b "'" ® 
Here's music to your ean... save 12 on one CD or you care! Save 20% on all floral arrangements and 1 -Wee u scription Use your MasterCard card and save 15% on a pur­cassette priced 18.99 or more when you use your gift baskets ofS28.45 or more, and get 25% off a Invest in your future and stay on top ofcurrent devel-chase ofS75 or more when you shop at any one of fl MasterCard~ card. One 12 discount per coupon. dozen roses when you use your MasterCard® card. opments with The Wall Street Journal. For a limited our 70 store locations or by mail order. Call I-BOO­COUPON #493 Calli-800-THE-ROSE before 1pm and have your time only, pay just 123 for a 12-week subscription 344-4444, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to find the 
Offer and coupon valid 211195 10 5131195. Offer valid only on pur-special gift delivered the same day! to the nation's leading business publication. To take ~~!rev~~~Ji'~9~~~S;S~~-~~~ ~~~o~~urchases usmg il. chases usmg a MauerCar~ urd. Cash redemption va:Jue 1/20. Offer Offer v.Wd 211195 to 5131195 OtTer valid only on purchases usmg a advantage of this special offer, call 1-800-348-3555 MasterCard., card. Offer not vai.Jd on certain purchases. May nor be :~ :O~eb; ~:~b~~~:'wr:e~n~r~ili:~~s~~;~upon MasterCar~ ciird Offer valid on products pnced $28 45 or more and please refer to source key 75NE. ~~~:~ep::h~~:e!u~~e~':l~c~::~oJ:;,~~!~~:~tching Policy. Lmm one CD or cassette per order Excludes dOll..EGE Applicable sales tax and semce charges are adcliuo(ii~ dOll..EGE Not valid on purchase of g1ft certificates or on (Ol.LfGE 
sa:lemerdundtse CoupOnlsnotvalidWlthanyotherspeCia:loffer OfTervalid2/1/95to5/31/95 Offer valid .) prevmuspurchases Thecliscount!Sapphcable
-0 e) Oce)
or discount Offer valid only on dehvenes only on purchases usmg il. MiisterCard~ card to, and the m1rumum purchase based on • w1thUl the Cononental Uruted St.ates JIA...: •~,....C mercb:;md\se pnc~ onl)', ilnd excludes tax,Offer Not Vahd Without Thts Coupon ~\ues" Sun~y delivery not gumnteed ~~ •rld!lorerva uc., sh1ppmg and tii.X on sh1ppmg ~ 
L------------------------------.l_------------------------------1-------------------------------L-~~_n ~~q~r.:_d_P9~C_9_£>~ ~ ---------------J 
0 1f95 MasterCard Intemationaf lruorporated 
, 





VIEWPOINT 
Monday, March 27, 1995 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief john Luca.s Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ...................... , .... John Potrer Virwpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Spons Editor ......................... Michad Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Scan Gallavan l'hoto Editor .................................. Rnb Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either inslitution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the view.s of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Death gives new meaning to Notre Dame life 
In the early morning hours of May 10, 1995, a member of Notre Dame's Class of 1963 by the name of William Ahern succumbed to leukemia after a long light with that terrible malady. 
I never knew or even met Mr. Ahern, Bill to his friends, but even the second hand reports of his struggle that I received penetrated my carefully con­structed front of cynicism, and I was forced to examine my attitude towards this university and its underlying merits. I hope that, by relating Bill Ahern's story in this forum, others might be afforded 

others a similar moment of clarity or, at a minimum, helped to reconfirm what many of you obviously already seem to understand about the the nature of the Notre Dame experience. 
I first heard of Bill Ahern during a phone call home towards the end of last semester. My mother, a RN in cancer research at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, mentioned that one of her patients hap­pened to be a hyper-enthusiastic alum­nus. Great, I thought, another zealous maniac clad in a bookstore catalog wardrobe, wearing one of those obnox­iously large rings and driving a blue and gold car with a horn that plays the light song. 
I had once heard that a loyal son or daughter of Harvard will always work their alma mater into their first conver­sation with you. However, it seems to me that Notre Dame has the gang from C!lmbridge beat in that verbal communi­cation isn't even necessary to identify one of our alums -the half dozen or so pieces of cheesy merchandise usually give it away. 
As I quietly scoffed about the absurd level of somewhat superficial dedication to this Institution displayed by so many of its graduates, Bill Ahern was dying. Mr. Ahern desperately needed a bone marrow transplant but, paradoxically, the operation necessary for such a transplant would almost certainly kill him due to his weakened condition. Thus the only alternative was to initiate a dangerous set of chemotherapy treat­ments that would either kill him or make him strong enough to undergo the potentially life-saving transplant. 
Dr. Barry Levinson, the first rate on­cologist leading Mr. Ahern's treatment team, advised him that there was the serious possibility that he wouldn't sur­vive the first regiment of treatment and that, before beginning the chemo, Bill should put his affairs in order. As one might expect, Bill Ahern's first priority on receiving this advice was to fly to Chicago and visit his family; although he himself was unmarried, most of his close relatives reside there. 
Fully aware that his time among the living was probably quite limited, Bill's next and only desire was to visit this University. And so, this January Bill Ahern returned for the last time to this campus, a place where he believed he had spent the best and most meaningful days of his life. 
Mr. Ahern had played football here in the early 1960's, and, upon learning of the severity of his illness, many of his former teammates quietly joined him on his winter pilgrimage back to Notre Dame. Bill obviously felt that something tremendously worthwhile in his life had occurred in this seemingly God forsaken corner of northern Indiana and that, by recapturing, if only momentarily, some shadow of those halcyon days, he could prepare himself for the trials ahead. 
Of course, I was completely unaware of all of this as it happened. The next time any thought of Mr. Ahern and his situation crossed my mind was just a few weeks prior to Spring Break when my mother presented me with a rather unorthodox request on Bill's behalf. 
She had, of course, mentioned to him that she had a son at Notre Dame. And now with the pivotal phase of his chemotherapy about to begin, he want­ed me to walk over to the Grotto and light several of the big candles in prayer for his doctors, most of whom were Jewish. 
Being far from the best Catholic on this campus and wanting to insure that Mr. Ahern got the maximum benefit from his request, I rounded up a few of 
'It is obviously very rare that 
any sort of human institu­tion, be it corporate, govern­mental or academic, inspires that sort of devotion and fideli­ty from those who know it. But I am sure that this is not the first testament that you have read to this deep-rooted strength of the bond between this university and those who love it.' 
my more pious friends and went over to the Grotto on a snowy March evening and earnestly attempted to invoke what­ever spiritual powers that shrine may hold. 
I had attempted to meet Mr. Ahern when I went home to Dallas for Spring Break, so that I might offer to him what­ever meager words of comfort a com­plete stranger can put forward to a man in his position. I did not know exactly what I would say to him, I just thought that seeing another member of this beloved Notre Dame community might serve as a sour~e of strength for him. 
Someone mentioned that perhaps he'd like a candle from the Grotto, and so I 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
brought one with me. As it happened, I was never able to speak to Bill or to give him that candle because he passed into the next life just a few hours after my flight touched down at home. In the end, however, that candled burned at his funeral. 
One of Bill Ahern's requests was to, if possible, have his ashes scattered at Notre Dame. I don't know if this occurred or not, but the very idea suc­cinctly illustrates the depth of Bill's ded­ication to this place. 
It is obviously very rare that any sort of human institution, be it corporate, governmental or academic, inspires that sort of devotion and fidelity from those who know it. But I am sure that this is not the first testament that you have read to this deep-rooted strength of the bond between this university and those who love it. Nor is it probably the most exceptional demonstration of the uniquely spiritual nature of Notre Dame. 
However, it is the first time that I have experienced these realities first hand and, therefore, are perhaps worth shar­ing with you. Besides, I imagine that Bill Ahern would be pleased to see his name memorialized in the newspaper of the school he so cherished. 
Cynicism is so easy and seems so nat­ural at this strange transitional stage of life we are in. Mocking and criticizing are quite simple compared to stopping to look for the long term importance and meaning of things. 
However, when confronted with the story of Bill Ahern it becomes necessary to reexamine the way in which we spend .these precious years of life; is there real­ly time to be cynical or, for that matter, to be so preoccupied by petty concerns about grades and transient campus is­sues? 
Christopher Kratovil is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached via e-mail at "Christopher.D.Kratovil.l@nd. edu" 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"I never knew what real hap­
piness was until I got mar­ried. And by then it was too late." 
-Max Kauffmann 



ACCENT 
page 10 Monday, March 27, 1995 
• AT THE MoviES Wnn fAT MAN AnD DADDY 
Candyman II: Not so sweet 
Candyman II no stars out of four 
S
hortly after the Civil War. a black man is killed by townspeople because of his love affair with a white woman. However. the angry citi­zens do not simply murder him; they saw his hand off and release an angry hoard of bees to torment him. Moments before death. his soul is inexplicably transferred onto the mirror of his lover, bestowing immortality and a legendary identity as the Candyman. Today. whenever anyone looks into the mirror and calls his name five times, he appears and impales his summoner with the hook that has since replaced his amputated hand. The subsequent story centers around the relationship between the Candyman and the modern descendants ofhis former lover. 
Daddy: Verbosity has always been the way with Daddy. I have always enjoyed filling this space and your minds with the words and the wisdom that give meaning to your personal lives. I am sorry to say that I just don't have a lot to say about "Candyman II." This movie was a real disappointment. In fact, while watching the plot unfold I became so depressed that tears formed in my eyes as I realized that another six dol-. Iars had slowly and painfully escaped my pockets. Then I remembered that I get paid to see these movies. Like those who have been given a second chance in life, I knew that I had been spared from paYing for this travesty in order to serve a greater purpose. Walking away from the theater, I knew I must warn others to never, ever pay money to see any film that bear's the "Candyman" prefix. 
I went to this movie with great expec­tations; a factor that undeniably con­tributed to the incredible let down I suf­fered. Like any other viewer, I figured that a film about a man who eviscerates people with a meat hook was sure to be particularly tasty; if not completely pleasing. However, the lack of acting, narrative explanation, suspense, humor, terror, interesting dialogue and dynamic characterization all combined to create a noticeable vacuum in my evening. 
In essence, "Candyman II" fails to meet the one significant prerequisite for a successful horror movie: it just isn't even a teeny bit scary. The hook slash­ing scenes are, at best, blase. If any­body wants to see hook usage that is more frightening than "Candyman II," just check out any installment of Babe Winkleman's classic fishing adventures (a helpless earthworm impaled on a barbed hook; now that's pure, unmiti­gated terror!). Even the movie's sup­posedly climatic flashback scene is no more thrilling than a poorly filmed episode of "Little House on the Prairie." 
Normally, I would make some refer­ence to the film's inherent style or its cast of actors as a movie usually has both of these. However, "Candyman II" capriciously abandons the norm and operates without either thespians or technique. Sure, there are characters in the movie; but I think these folks would be better known as "People Who Walk In Front Of the Camera" than as "Actors." There is absolutely no visual style that adds to the film nor any innov­ative editing to temporarily-divert at­tention from the absence of plot. These shortcomings team-up to form a one, two punch that forever condemns "Candyman II" to the land of crappy horror movies. 
Fatman: I find lots of things scary. All this chatter about a coming plague or rumors that the very beef of luscious hamburgers might be infested by E. Coli bacteria that could turn my happy belly into an abyss of unspeakable pain are scary things. Even Daddy staring demonically at an embraced couple making out in the movie theater can be a bit frightening. But "Candyman II" was about as scary as the grumpy old man who took my ticket at the door. Like the ticket collector, the movie was slow, dull, and possessed an unappeal­ing stench which made me want to the flee the theater gasping for fresh air. 
At first, the Fatman was excited about seeing "Candyman II." I expected it to deal with beautiful little ginger bread men dancing delicately across the screen in search of the wise Candyman, who would grant them a place in the Savory Kingdom where they could serve all of the world's horizontally chal­lenged folks. Instead, I was given New Orleans, a mundane villain, some of the worst acting I've seen since Kevin Costner's last movie, and a plot that drove on the cinematic highway about as stylishly as a Volkswagon Rabbit. Woe is me, the Fatman, that I not only had to endure this slop for over an hour and half, but without a lavishly but­tered bucket of crisp movie popcorn since I spent too much money over spring break. The only decent dialogue in the movie was Kingfish's illogical 
Le Ly Hayslip, woman of peace 
By LARRY WARD 
Accent Wrirer 
I
magine suffering starvation, impris­onment, torture, rape, and the deaths of several beloved family members. Now imagine suffering these heart-wrenching experiences all before reaching your sixteenth birthday. 
For most of us. it is impossible to imagine facing such hardships. However, Le Ly Hayslip endured all of these horrid conditions before she turned sixteen. 
Hayslip was born Phug Thi Le Ly in 1949 in the small village of Ky La in Central Vietnam. Growing up, she wit­nessed the horrifying violence of the American army. Moreover, Hayslip and many of her young friends served as spies for both South Vietnam and the V~et Cong. 
Before she had even turned 15, Hayslip was sentenced to death by the Viet Cong who believed her to be a gov­ernment informer. She survived execu­tion only after being violated by the two guerrillas who were to execute her. Sadly though, Vietnamese custom stat­ed that Hayslip could not expect to marry or have a family after being so horribly dishonored. 
Overcoming all of these adversities, Hayslip met and married an American civilian in 1970. Together, they moved to his home in San Diego. Hayslip mar­ried again after this first husband passed away. Following the death of the second husband, Hayslip was forced to raise her three sons alone. 
In 1988, Hayslip founded the East Meets West Foundation. Based in Rancho Bernardo, California, East Meets West serves as a non-profit humanitarian·organization. The goal of East Meets West is to help rebuild the war-torn Vietnamese countryside and provide aid and support to Vietnamese hospitals, schools, and orphanages. Hayslip serves as the Executive Director of her incredible orga­nization. 
Hayslip has returned to her homeland twenty times since 1986. Documentary crews, photographers, journalists, television reporters, and others have accompanied her on these voyages. 
Hayslip has written two ex­traordinary autobiographies chronicling her amazing life history. When Heaven and Earth Changed Places exam­ines the physical and emotional turmoil she experienced grow­ing up in Vietnam during the war. Child of War, Woman of Peace, details Hayslip's survival .: , ... in the United States and her ef-Le Ly Hayslip will be speaking tonight in Debartolo forts to help her homeland. 101 at 7:00PM. 
Director Oliver Stone based the third of his films about the Vietnam War era on the dynamic personal story of Le Ly Hayslip. The movie, entitled "Heaven and Earth," stars Hiep Thi Leas Hayslip and is the first movie about the war from the Vietnam~e perspective. 
Recently, Hayslip has received a lot ­of harsh criticism and scorn from other Vietnan\ese-Americans. One Vietnamese-American reporter asked Hayslip about the numerous death threats she has received from other refugees because of the work of the East Meets West Foundation. Hayslip simply brushed the question aside by replying, "There will always be yin and yang, night and day." The reporter then demanded to know what Hayslip's group had done for the thousands of refugees in the United States. To this, Hayslip responded, "The foundation doesn't have the money to help there and here." 
Nevertheless, Hayslip does not let adversity get in the way and she and her foundation continue to help those in Vietnam. 
If you are intrigued by Hayslip's dynamic life history you can see her speak tonight in DeBartolo 101, begin­ning at 7 p.m. 
banter which I committed to memory for future use: "My belly is a mound of Iovin." Eloquently spoken, but hardly enough to redeem the film. 
I guess the question that should be asked when seeing a movie of this cal­iber is what think-tank decided to pro­duce this whole project? I'm sure that the original "Candyman" achieved incredible critical and commercial suc­cess, grabbing kudos from young and old alike. But did we really need "Candyman II"? Was the story and the stifling magnetism of the characters, so great, so overwhelming. that the film just had to be made? Those of you who say yes are probably the same people who watch Buns of Steel videos or admired Mel Gibson's stunning, and nauseating, performance as Hamlet. But for the rest of us, such films as "Candyman II" are an insult. People market this garbage so that we will go see it hoping to be thrilled or frightened or sickened by it, when they know (I hope and pray) it is trash. So with a slick ad campaign and a sacrificial cere­mony to the fertility gods of cinema, they release it hoping that at least some dope will see it. Don't be that dope. I was-but its not my money. 
"Candyman II" should be avoided under all circumstances. Even if you like cheesy horror movies, it was too poorly written and produced for even its shortcomings to be entertaining. It sim­ply irritates. Don't ruin your weekend, or maybe even your life. Don't see "Candyman II." 
Fat Man and Daddy are John Zack and Scott Bozik. Their movie reviews appear every Monday. 
Today 
on


WVFI 

11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.
Marty Wolske is in· the booth playing $Orne of the most popular alternative music on the college scene. For the first hotJ.r he·plays the ·mainstream tracks on :rotation at the statiQn while the second hptJ.r is made up of many of Wolske's per. 
favorites; Mixed in. with the li]s:es of 
. lncbNalls and the Offspring is cam~ pus.news and gossip, weather. and other announcements. Listeners of Wolske's program may also have· the opportunity to speak on the air or win CDs or movie tothe Suite. · 
11:30p.m.to 1:30 a.m. 
hours later, at the peak ofman.y tat,e·Dili!'Ilt_sttJ.dy sessions, Chris Blanford ·Eva:ns lighten things up a hit with · ·to 1:30 a.m. program, trY to play the wor"st music fmd,~ .. explained Evans. "It's usu~ · but in a funny way." In eff•>rttoJ>rilJtg the best-·of the worst· to .listette.rs,BhLl:. tfot and Evans are :ttt)l~ldtlg O\lt garage sales and bizarre, anclyirtually of thejr material 
·the Planet of 
from Ses(Jme · Didi(For 
n.n.naJ•nn··Si·kgs the 
,A~~--'; .. 


Monday, March 27, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 

Final Four awaits OSU 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHEHFORD'; N.J. 
Oklahoma State's 44-year wait is over. Eddie Sutton's 17-year wait is over. The Cowboys and their coach, courtesy of another big effort by Big Country, are linally back in the Final Four. 
Bryant Heeves, the 7 -footer known as much for his small-town roots as his big-time game, led the fourth-seeded Cowboys to a 68-54 victory over sec­ond-seeded Massachusetts on Sunday in the East Hegionallinal. 
They will meet top-ranked UCLA, which beat Connecticut 102-96 in the West Regional linal, next Saturday at Seattle. 
Oklahoma State (27 -9) had a 27-9 run over mueh of the second half and took advantage of horrendous shooting by the Minutemen (29-5) to get back to the Final Four for the lirst time since 1951. 
Reeves did what he does best. He fin­ished with 24 points and 10 rebounds, and did it with his customary lack of flair. Massachusetts tried everybody on him and nothing worked. He scored on turnarounds, rebounds and short jumpers. 
And when the Cowboys needed something from the outside, Randy Rutherford gave it to them. After going 0-for-4 from 3-point range in the lirst half, the senior guard made his first three from behind the arc in the sec­ond half and finished with 19 points. 
Rutherford's lirst 3-pointer gave the Cowboys their first lead of the second half, 36-34, and helped start a 27-9 run that turned a 34-31 deficit into a 58-43 lead for the Cowboys with 6:25 left. 
Massacusetts scored the next eight points, five by Derek Kellogg, to cut the deficit to 58-51, but Oklahoma State then had a 10-0 run -with Rutherford scoring six points -to increase the lead to 17. 
Carmelo Travieso led the Minutemen, who had their worst shooting game of the season, with 11 points and Kellogg had 10. 
NCAA 
continued from page 20 
came back to win three straight touches and secure her undefeated two-day record. 
"Its not too bad to be second, but I feel that I am better than second," Panyi said. 
Part of Panyi's reasoning involves the controversial manner in which the bout was decided. 
During the bout, the director ruled on an out of bounds call and an attack-coun­terattack call that were both question­able. 
"I'm very upset because the director made mistakes," Panyi added. "I can accept losing, but not when calls like that are made." 
In the end, it would not matter because of Kalinovskaya's dominating perfor­mance. Panyi also lost a bout on Saturday and an additional one yesterday to finish 20-3, while the champion's record was unblemished. 
Considering the individual format of the tournament, Kalinovskaya's 23-0 mark is a tribute to her conditioning. 
"Twenty-three bouts over a two day period is a lot of bouts," epee captain Claudette de Bruin said. "Even in the nationals, you only fence 10 of 11 bouts." 
"The format of the tournament is very bad," Panyi said. "Conditioning and the director play bigger roles as opposed to technical fencing." 
However, Panyi could receive some solace in the fact that she was named out­standing fencer in women's foil at the championship banquet last night, while Wellesley's Heidi Chang picked up the award in epee. 
De Bruin placed third in the nation behind St. John's Tina Loven and Chang as she captured 59 points for the team. 
''I'm exhausted," de Bruin added. "I was tired and wasn't fencing my best." 
Junior foilist Mindi Kalogera garnered 12 points for the team as she finished 24th in the country after getting past the first round of competition and competing in the final round robin event. 
Sophomore epeeist Colleen Smerek was unable to make the first cut and did not advance into the round of 24. 
Heading into the final two days, the Irish find themselves in fourth place. As they were last year, Penn State is atop the leader board with 168 points, 28 points ahead of Princeton and St. John's. The Irish are one point behind at 139. 
"It was more like fighting than fencing in this format," Panyi added. The Irish men will have to fight hard the next two days if they hope to repeat. 
Razorbacks' defense stymies Cavaliers' shooting 
By OWEN CANFIELD 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
For the first time in this NCAA tournament. defending ehampion Arkansas didn't have to sw11at out a tight linish. 
The second-seeded Hazorbaeks, outstanding on de­fense all game, beat No. 4 seed Virginia 68-61 Sunday in the Midwest Hegional final. They will play Southeast Hegional champion North Carolina on Saturday in Seattle. 
"It's nice to be able to pull away and look good doing it," said coach Nolan Richardson, who had seen his team survive a one-point game in the first round, then two straight over­time games to reach the re­gional final. 
"It looked like the old Hazorbacks of yesterday, when we went on a roll and our de­fense took the game over," he said. 
Corliss Williamson led Arkansas with 21 points and nine rebounds. Scotty Thurman added 17 points for the Razorbacks, who will be mak­ing their sixth Final Four ap­pearance and third this decade. 
For much of the game, Arkansas played at a tempo that was more to Virginia's lik­ing. Arkansas scored only four transition baskets in the· first half and played a zone defense most of the time. 
The Razorbacks started to trap more often in the second half, and late in the game used fullcourt pressure to harass the Cavaliers. Virginia (25-9) wound up shooting 33.9 per­cent, a season low. 
"They do a good job of pres­suring you and making you speed up, said Junior Burrough, who closed his Virginia career with 22 points and 16 rebounds. "They have a reckless abandon for the bas­ketball." 
Virginia led 35-29 after a 3­pointer by Curtis Staples with 
15:34 remaining. Then Dwight Stewart made a 3-pointer to start Arkansas on a 9-0 run. 
Virginia's final lead was 39­38 with 10:25 to play. Davor Rimae's 3-pointer 15 seconds later pushed Arkansas ahead, then Williamson scored nine of the Razorback's next 10 points to make the score 51-46. 
A follow shot by Burrough brought Virginia within 51-48 with 4:28 to go. Then Arkansas held the Cavaliers without a basket for about two minutes, outscoring them 11-1 during that time to take a 62-49 lead. 
"They got down and did the dirty work. made some shots and they won," Burrough said. 
The Observer acceprs dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIFOUNDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -Looking for part-time athletic For Sale-Duplexes 10 min. from Calculator in computer cluster. Earn up to $2,000+/month working instructors for the National Youth FOR RENT Notre Dame. 2 bedroom & 3 avail­I" NOTICES Probably lost early in semester. on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­Sports Program at Notre Dame. able. Priced to sell. 
Call x0827 to identify type and panies. World travel (Hawaii, This program targets economically NEED Fm to share 4bdrm home 272-8555 am 272-9716 pm ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: location and to claim. Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). disadvantaged 10 to 16-year-old next sc yr WALK TO CLASS 289· Are you looking for that service pro­Seasonal and full-time employment children by providing them with 9420 ject that really makes a difference, available. No experience neces­sports instruction. drug and alcohol PERSONAL and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­>>>>>>>>>LOST<<<<<<<<<<< sary. For more information cal 1-prevention, career information, and HOMES FOR RENT ther ... Red paisley J.G. Hook umbrella 206-634-0468 ext. C55844 nutritional lunches. This is an NEAR CAMPUS HEYII! THE SOPHOMORE CLASS last semester from firstlloor opportunity for students who will be 232·2595 Physics11 0/21 0 
SERVICE PROJECT Cavanaugh. It's very important to attending summer school to supple· Surprise Dr. Rettig when he gets Youth Mentoring at the NE me, SO PLEASE RETURN IT! Project Software Engineer menttheir income while giving to 2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3 back from his trip. Get your labs Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS Call x1374. I'll come pick it up if Leading software developer in the community. Applicants must BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM­donal This means you, Bollman. AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30 necessary, no questions asked. Columbus, Ohio seeks software possess the ability to instruct one or PUS.272-6306 Love, meet at room 161 or Main Circle engineer with BSCE degree or more of the following sports: tennis, The roof Questions? -Brian Tierney x1 058 higher. Engineer to develop in volleyball, swimmming, track, bas­LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­
FOUND Windows/Windows NT environment ketball, soccer, and softball. They HOOD FURNISHED HOMES $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ WOMAN'S RING IN DBRT, SEC· using knowledge of Visual Design must also enjoy working with chil­NORTH OF NO FOR NEXT THE SECOND CITY RETURNSIII Are you going to read those things OND FLOOR. CALL 2954 Tools and Visual dren and be service-oriented. The SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8 Washington Hall again? I think not. 2323-2342 C++. Experience with ClienVServer dates of the NYSP 1995 camp are STUDENTS 2773097 Wed., Apri112 Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard architecture, distributed database July 3 through August 5. There is Tickets are $3 ... on sale now at 
POSTED: $ 250.00 Reward applications and project manage­one week of mandatory training RENT FROM US for SUMMER! Lafortune Info Desk ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­For the retrieval or info leading to ment a plus. Full time position with from June 26 through 30. The hours BIG 2br apt w/ wash/dry CLOSE to Get them now; it WILL SELL OUT! FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL the retrieval of my stolen mountain benefits. Please mail resume with are 1:30-4:30 p.m. Monday through NO! call273-0182 Brenda, Sarah, "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60, bike. Brand: Cadex Alm-1, salary requirement to ScanDala Friday. Please call289-4540 or Julie FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­18". Front suspension Systems Mail Stop 4400 4420 631-6614 for an interview. HAPPY BIRTHDAY MALERYI SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA· Color: metalic silver and wine· Tuller Road Dublin, Ohio 43017 Professional gals at Castle Pl. need We love you, Mickey & Meta NEE, 219-773-2034. berry red. -Do the right thing, roomies, no undergrads. 271-0801. 
Please Ill No questions asked. ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY· LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMERI PULP FICTION Call Brian 234·4322 REWARDING SUMMER JOB -MENT! EARN THOUSANDS THIS After 3 kids, I lost 23 lbs., went from FRI. & SAT. 8/10:30 Orlando, FL -residential camp serv­SUMMER IN CANNERIES, FOR SALE size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o CUSHING AUDITORIUM ing developmentally disabled hiring PROCESSORS, ETC. diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural 
Found over 40 ladies undergar· counselors 18+. Live and work on MALE/FEMALE. OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly WORD PROCESSING. TAXES, ments in room 864 of the Cancun beautiful, lakefront preserve. Salary ROOM/BOARD/TRAVEL OFTEN at $85,900. Firstlloor location. 1·800-209-2150 GIFTS. 256-6657 Palace. To claim your undergar· plus room, board & extras. 6/11-PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN­Finished basement with full lavato­
ment, contact Matt or Mike at 1· 8/18. Call407-889·8088 for applica­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4398 ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on HAPPY 21st BDAY DAVE MEISI @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ 407-277·2124 tion. ext A1082 ground level. Lease back to owner @ through May, 1995. Call IF YOU SMOKE CAMEL CIGA· Bring a partner and come to the (616)946-0700. RETTES, CALL 
BALLROOM DANCING WANTED DIRECT CONTACT STAFF AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING I EARN 2954 
WORKSHOP responsible to provide individual BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL 486/33 MiniTower PC 230MB This Wed., 3/29 from 7-10 p.m. in ENVIRONMENTAL JOBS FOR training to developmentally disabled (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, VGA Monitor, Modem & Softwares I need 4 tickets for graduation. the LaFun Ballroom. Brought to THE SUMMER. Earn $2500·$3500 children and adults. High school ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO $850 OBO Call Jewan 234-1285 Can anyone help? you by SUB and the ND/SMC & Free the Planet Campaign to diploma or G.E.D. required. EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929· CALL GREGG 273-2871 Ballroom Dance Club. Also, we save endangered species, promote Training provided. Day, evening & 4398 ext. C1082. Black Leather Rocker-Recliner have ····FREE Fooo·····. recycling and stop polluters. Work weekend shifts. Hourly wage and Looks New & Nice Kiddo, @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@ with major environmental gruops benefits. Contact Tonya, 289-0385 Wanted: Looking for an easy going $350 Call Jewan 234·1285 Now that ills all over enjoy not @ like the PIRGS, Sierra club & Green at LOGAN. E.O.E. M/F girl to be a live in nannie for six chil­
Corps. Positions in 33 states & D.C. dren this summer in Lake Forest, NEAR CAMPUS 2 BDRM -An lllinios Farmer Campus Interviews: March 30 & 31 ILL. Must have good references, HOME. 2 LOTS. BASEMENT.ILOST & FOUND I Call Jamie: 1-800-75-EARTH WANTED: former wrestlers to help be responsible, love children, and GARAGE. $29,900. GILLIS REAL­N 
coach a kid's freestyle wrestling enjoy swimming. TY272·6306 Not to be annoying, but thanks. LOST on FRI 3110 NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· program. Ages 5 & up. 2 If interested please write at Your a real pal and I'll always love HEART·SHAPED silver RING Jade Seasonal & full-time employment nights/week, 6-8 pm. Call Tom Dorothy Wehmer BIKE, APPLE 2C COMPUTER & you. In middle between North Dining Hall available at National Parks, Forests Dolly at 255-0137. 454 Buena Rd. DRYER.272·6306 jD and Center for Social Concerns in & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits & Lake Forest, IL 60045 morning! FAMILY HEIRLOOM! bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. Typist needed. 30 pgs. Big $$$. or call (alter April 3) 90 Toyota Corolla SR5 50KMi Party's Over. REWARDIII Call Rana x1373. N55842 x 4574 Susan (708-234-8125). 5-spd $6450 234-4113 I'd imagine so. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 27, 1995 
Dame's location may hinder the a loyal Domer. graduating in have a breakthrough season ... recruiting ability of teams like 197 4 and coaching the Irish for this year after two straight ban­
Jock Schafer 
baseball and the tennis teams, fifteen years, and, for the most ner recruiting crops, but the continued from page 20 it should be a key benefit for part, Schafer was cordial continued from page 20 squad finished just ninth. the Irish icers. With fertile enough with the press hut with Although Notre Dame is ex­
Digger Phelps was put in the headed," said Schafer. "I came
hockey breeding grounds such his players, it was another pected to conduct an extensive 
same position five years ago, as to the conclusion that it's in my 
as Minnesota and Michigan, not story. On the infrequent occa­search, candidates to replace
the once-proud Irish basketball .best interests and maybe those
to mention Canada, relatively sions when the Irish were vic­Schafer include longtime Irish 
program had fallen into disar­of the program for me to step
close by, Notre Dame should torious, players often said that as-sistant Tom Carroll, Lake 
ray. The emergence of the down at this point." 
have no problem in recruiting. it was in spite of Schafer. Of Superior State's Jeff Jackson, 
power conferences such as the Added one member of the
But with Schafer leading the course, the coach isn't sup­and Colorado College head 
Big East and the subsequent team, "He sometimes had prob­
way, they have not done the posed to be a friend to all, but coach Don Lucia. 
ESPN phenomena all but debili­lems communicating with his
job. when the attitude of the team To his credit, Schafer was in­
tated Notre Dame. Phelps had players."
One may argue that Schafer's borders on animosity, you know strumental in the team's move 
nothing to sell. Such was not Since reentering the CCHA in
allotment of scholarships (14) the time has come for a new back to the CCHA and in con­
the case with Schafer. 1992, the Irish have posted a
hurts and that may he of some direction. vincing the athletic department
Whereas Phelps had no con­combined record of 29-74-8.
merit. But the fact remains That direction can only be to award hockey scholarships
frerence to work with. the Notre Dame was expected to
that he has failed to effectively up. for the first time. 
1994-95 season marked Notre 
utilize the 14. Notre Dame 
Dame's third season in, ar­
doesn't have seven, let alone
guably, college hockey's pre­
14, players on the roster that 
mier conference, the Central 
compare with the likes of the 
Collegiate Hockey Association 
Wolverines or Spartans.
(CCHA). Top to bottom, only 
Some disagree with that last
Hockey East rivals the CCHA, 
claim, as one service rated the 

Now that you're-going to
but with teams like defending 
classes of 1996 and 1997 as the 
national champion Lake 
first and second-best CCHA
Superior State and Michigan 
classes, respectively. However, 

graduate school, how
State heading the list, the nod 
what those classes have shown 

should he given to the CCHA. 
on the ice sharply contrasts thatCompeting in such a league is a opinion. 
do you plan to pay for. it?
recruiter's dream. College 
Notre Dame has a combinedhockey may be about as popu­record of 22-47-6 the past two lar as Seaquest in terms of tele­years. That indicates one of vision ratings. hut a stud high two things. Either Schafer andschool skater would still love to his assistants coaches were ashow his stuff on national TV, poor judge of talent or he failed and playing in the CCHA pro­to coach the talent toward suc­



Ask us.
vides such an opportunity. 
cess.
Granted, Prime Network isn't Whatever the case may be, aexactly NBC, or even CNBC, but change had to be made. 
it is still something to selL Schafer had lost the interestIn addition to this exposure, of the team. Much of that is the th.e aura of Notre Dame's name fault of the players, but in a sit­
gained the Irish invites to some For Graduate Students
uation like this, removing theof the nation's top tournaments, coach is the only way to go. (pursuing all types ofadvancedplaying along side powerhouses Even if the winning percent­
such as Maine and Boston degrees such as law, engineering,
age doesn't dramatically jumpUniversity. Once again, just next season, in all probabibility, nursing, etc.) The Citi­something more to offer. 
the atmosphere surrounding Graduate Loan Program
Finally, as much as Notre the program will. Schafer was 
offers Federal Stafford Loans and our exclusive Grad­Assist Loan. 
And, all of the Citibank Grad­
uate Loan Programs offer: you study or where you cur­
• easy repayment, rently bank, you can count

to the best big sister! 
.low interest rates, 

on Citibank, the nation's Thanks for everything number one originator of • no application fees, student loans, to help finance 
you have done throughout • an easy application process, your education.· 
• fast approvals, 

the years. 
For Medical Students 
.and one toll-free number
(pursuing allopathic and
I'll miss ~~~ ne*t ~ear! 
to call for answers to all

osteopathic medicine) The your questions. 
Love Always, CitiMedical Loan Program For more information
offers Federal Stafford 
Bonnie 
and an application for a

Loans and our exclusive Citibank Graduate Loan, 
MedicalAssist Loan. 
call 1-800-692-8200,

For MBA Students 
and ask for Operator 256.
The CitiMBA Loan 
Program offers Federal  
You can help them publish their career desires and  Stafford Loans and our exclusive MBAAssist Loan.  CITIBAN<C'I  
educational accomplishments  
rn front of over 25,000 of the  
nation's l9rgest employers. ,, ,~J-.,e.·oM.-·.:~,:·eAUN.-Il.J''·':, We will help you start your own business, representing Care~r Shop to students searching for a career . .-­ENational On-line Career Databank!  I I I I I I I  YeS! I want more information and an application for the following Citibank Graduate Loans: 0 All Federal Stafford Loans 0 Citibank MedicaiAssist Loan (for studmts of allopathic and osteopathic medicine) 0 Citibank MBAAssist Loan ![or busi1zess studellts) 0 Citibank GradAssist Loan (far graduate stude1zts) Mail this coupon to: Citibank Student Loans P.O. Box 22948  Name of Student ________________ Address ________ __Apt.._____ City___________________ State_____________.Zip•_____ Telephone_________________ Student's Social Security# _____________ (f.i1r /1rfftr Sl'fV/ft', llr mre 111 fill in tile Soc1al Sefu,ly Num/1a tlbtwt·.) Student is currently in 0 College 0 Graduate School Year of Graduation ____ Field of Study------­Name of College/Graduate School ----------­Are you a previous student loan borrower? 0 Yes 0 No Or for faster service,  I I I I I I I  
For an Immediate Interview contact T~nKey, Inc. 800-639-2060  I I  Rochester, NY 14692-2948 Citibank (New York State) 255  call 1·800·692-8200, ~~:::.~::~6.  CITIBAN<C'I  I I  


L -------x-------------..1 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, March 27, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
WE ARE ALL ND/SM(J 
A Statement by Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Alumni/ae Regarding Diversity and Acceptance 
WE BELIEVE that the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College are institutions strengthened by their diversity. 
WE BELIEVE that each member of the faculty, staff, student body, and alumni/ae is an essential part of the ND/SMC FAMILY, regardless of sexual orientation. 
WE BELIEVE that the administration's treatment of our family's gay, lesbian and bisexual members is inconsistent with the values and mission of a Catholic 
educational institution. 
-THEREFORE, WE, THE UNDERSIGNED ALUMNI/AE OF THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE, call upon the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College administrations to extend to GLND/SMC the same rights and recognition afforded other student groups. 
Joseph Acosta '87 Berkeley CA, Openly Gay Seminarian Joyce Allen '86 Seattle W A, Training Specialist, Microsoft Corporation Mark Amenta '79 Chicago IL, Secretary GALA­NDISMC, Management Consultant Tony Angelo '87 South !fend IN, Controller, Batteast Construction Company Sue Augustus '77 Chicago IL, Attorney John M. Bacarro '86 '88 Los Angeles CA, Mechanical Engineer Bruce Bartley '68 Denver CO, Program Administrator, State of Colorado Richard Beatty '91 Washington D.C., Senior Visiting · Scientist, Universities Space Research Association Derrick Benn '90 Santa Clara CA, School Teacher Jack Bergen '77 BostonMA. Manager Computer Systems John M. Blandford '83 South Bend IN, Doctoral Student, Co-ChairGLND/SMC Gregory D. Bourke '82 Louisville KY, Senior Manager Research  Jack E. Cosgrove '84 Lawrencevtlle NJ, VP of Marketing, Miren-Stout & Associates John F. Cowan '64 Scotts Valley CA, Computer Programmer/Writer Gerarel W. Cowhig, S.J. '76 San Diego CA, Catholic Priest/ Associate Pastor Timothy David Culver '94 Durham NC, Graduate Student Ron D'Angelo '86 New York NY, Director of Sales and Merchandising Fancis Joseph D' Anzi '89 Wayne PA:, Senior Consultant, Computer Systems Robert F. Dailey, Ph.D. '74 Austin TX, Associate Professor, St. Edward's University T. J. Dambra M.D. '72 Farmington CT, Physician Douglas Daher Ph.D, '71 '73 '76 Stanford CA Psychologist, Stanford University Thomas DeChant '69 Madison WI, Principal of Consulting Firm Michael Lawrence Dini '89 Lubbock TX, Professor of Biology, Texas Tech. University Thorn Dombkowski '72 Chicago IL, HIV/AIDS Prog. Director, Chicago Dept. of Health  Richard Gibbons '73 Chicago IL, Architect John F. Gilligan '89 Oakland CA, Social Worker Jeannine Gramick SSND '69 Timonium MD, Pastoral Minister Elizabeth Ann Graner '92 New York NY, Human Resources Barbara Mary Grant '86 Seattle W A, Manager, Microsoft Corporation Kenneth Haders '75 '84 Chicago IL, Educator Tom Halligan '93 Brookfierd IL, Medical Student, Loyola University William E. Hardiman '86 Boston MA, Attorney Donald Hayden '82 Chicago IL, Attorney Daniel F.C. Hayes, AlA '78 Washington D.C., Architect Kevin V. Heffernan '93 Chicago IL, Course Manager/Editor Rebekah G. Hill '93 Pittsburgh PA, Musician Gustavo N. Hinojosa '82 New York NY, Architect Kathleen Marie Hipp '93 Bowling Green OR, Doctoral Student in Psychology David J. Horan '85  Maureen Loughney '80 Modesto CA,"""Engineer Thomas A. Mattingly '80 Chicago IL, Marketmg Manager Wade Maybe!T)' '80 Rochester NY, Architect Anthony McCann M.D. '79 Portland ME, Psychiatrist Bill McDonald '65 West Hollywood CA, Attorney Moira Kathleen McGee '92 Laguna Beach CA, Bookstore Manager Kevin M. McKenna '86 Boston MA, Lawyer Jeffrey D. McPherson '75 San Ramon CA, Research & Development Patrick Edward Midden '93 Minneapolis MN, Computer Consultant Mike W. Miller '91 South Bend IN, Computer Systems Specialist Jeffery Monaghan '83 Duluth MN,Valet Patricia Montley '69 Pittsburgh P A, Professor of Theatre, Chatham College Joann Moschella '86 San Francisco CA, Editor, Harper Collins West Frank L. Moschiano '79 New York NY, Certified Public  Brian Rak '85 Jamaica Plain MA, Editor, Hackett Publishing Company Dr. Mark 1. Ratkus '75 '76 Philadelphia PA, Professor of EconOffiiCS Laurie E. Reynolds '83 San Francisco CA, Attorney Louis Ripple '64 '68 SMC Honolulu HI, Telephone Analyst Dennis M. Rabine '80 Arlington VA, Manager Gary Robinson '73 N'ew York NY, Designer/Stylist Albert "Ace" Rocek '74 San Francisco CA, Sales (Earthquake retrofit hardware) Randall D. Roybal '91 Albuquerque NM, Attorney Michael Savino '75 New York NY, V.P. Research Phil Schatz '72 '74 South Bend IN, Bookseller Gerry Schluter '77 San Francisco CA, Marketing Joseph J. Schultz '89 . South Bend IN, Controller Nu­Focus Inc. J. Randall Schwingen '82 Bloomfield NJ, Marketing Product Manager Mike Shriver '85 San Francisco CA, Health Commissioner; Executive Director  
Bruce Bower '72 '75 Austin TX, Lawyer La!l)' J. Bradley '60 '62 '71 South Bend IN, Attorney, College Teacher  Phil Donahue '57 New York NY, Broadcaster John Clark Doppke '94 Boulder CO, Graduate Student  Newport RI, Innkeeper Tom Hubbard '72 Seattle W A, Biologist John Hutchens '79  Accountant & Finance Planner Jeffrey Mousseau '82 Boston MA, Theatre Director Peter M. Nardi '69  Mobilization Against AIDS Rev. Norbert Sinski CSC '76 New York NY, Clinical Dir. of BRC Human Services Corp., Holy Cross Priest  
Robert H. Brady '88 Boston MA. Medical Student Terry Brady '90 Centerville OH, Software Engineer Jim Braun '86 San Francisco CA, Marketing Manager Kevin Buckle)' '65 Oak Park IL, Health Care Research John Burger '77 '80 Chicago IL, Architect James B. Burke '72 Chicago IL, Development, Amencan Friends Service Comm. Daniel Burr '73 '77 Covington KY, Medical School Student Affairs Officer Stephen Butman '87 Warren MI, Computer Consultant David Carey Jr. '90 New Orleans LA, Graduate Student, Tulane University Frank P. Carnevale '91 Amherst NY, Medical Student Chester N. Caster M.D. '70 Schenectady NY, Family Physician Joseph F. Caulfield '82 Richmond VA, System Analyst Eric Christiansen '92 Oakland CA, Director of Vol. Serv./Center for AIDS Services Charles R. Colbert III '78 Cambridge MA; Vice-Chair GALA-ND/SMC,Writer/Consultant Paul John Concialdi '76 Chicago IL, Social Security Lawrence Condren '71 Chicago IL, Computer Programmer Jeffrey A. Cooper C.S.C. '89 '93 Burbank CA, Catholic Priest  James Alfred Doppke Jr. '92 Seattle W A, Family Therapist Los Angeles CA, Professor of Glenview IL, Law student/law Sociology, Pitzer College clerk William J. Hutchinson '66 Dorchester MA, Owner, Landmark Richard K. Nugent '79 John D Doyle '94 Restoration Kaoh Siung 'taiwan R.O.C., Lisle IL, Chemical Engineer Architect Jeffrey J. Jotz '92 John Edward Dugan '93 Rahway NJ, Press Spokesperson-­Sean Tath O'Donnell '88 Washington D.C., Production City of Rahway Brighton MA, Attorney Artist, Washington City Paper Stephen Julien '90 Richard F. O'Malley '59 Victor R. Dukay '78 Houston TX, Control Systems Philadelphia PA, University Denver CO, Executive-Corporate Engineer Administrator, St. Joseph's U. Jet Leasing Edward J. Kaminski CSC '74 Thomas O'Neil '77 Brad Engelland '80 Burbank CA, Parish Priest New York NY, Journalist Laguna Niguel CA, Architect Michael Keeley '75 Erin Eileen O'Neill '93 Anton Patrick Eppich '94 Los Angeles CA, Deputy Mayor Hinsdale IL, Training Santa Barbara CA, Ph.D. Student, City of Los Angeles Consultant/Courseware Developer Physics Michael P. Kelley '65 Joan "Punky" Organ '73 SMC Jeff Etoll '78 Los Angeles CA, College E. Cleveland 011, Professor South Bend IN, Restaurant Professor Manager Victor F. Ortale '81 Boston MA, Architect Lee Klosinski '76 '80Francis A. Feeley '90 Studio City CA, Administrator at Chicago IL, Scliool Psychologist/ Vivian Ostrowski '85 SMCAIDS Project LA Actor Belchertown MA, Residence Director, University of Mass.Gary Kuchta '85Jim Feeney '80 Chicago IL, Marketing Manager Chicago lL, Architect Art Panfile '75 Drexel Hill PA, TreasurerGALA­Rick (Duffer) Landavarzo '80Ml!I)' Fishman '82 ND/SMC, Manager Hospital San Diego CA, Dir. of Education,Cflicago IL, Architect Information Services AIDS Foundation, San Diego Erik Floan '94 Jay Parks '75 Seattle W A, Musician James Daniel Lee '90 West Hollywood CA, Actor Bloomington IN, Graduate Student Tim Garrison '83 Sociology Kevin Thaddeus Paulson '80 New York NY, Consultant San Francisco CA, Deputy Sheriff James Lodwick '95 James V. Gatteau 3rd '89 South Bend IN, Episcopal Priest Christopher Rerry '83San Francisco CA, Investment and Ph.D. candidate Chicago IL, Fligbt Attendant Accountant Philip Loebach '74 Marc M. Radell '80Peter M. Ghiloni '82 Long Beach CA, Senior Aerospace Chicago IL, AttorneyMilwaukee WI, Director Prayer & System Engineer Worship This petition was paid for through private contributions to GAIA-ND/SMC and by other supporting alumni/ae. GAIA-ND/SMC (Gay and Lesbian Alumnilae of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College) University Club of Saint Paul, 420 Summit Avenue, Saint Paul, Minnesota 55102 GALANDSMC @aol.com  James W. Smith '93 Chicago IL, Cellular Engineer Van Stewart '66 Palm Beach FL, Retired Bill Storey Ph.D. '58 South Bend IN, Professor of Theology (emeritus) John L. Sullivan '83 Minneapolis MN, Attorney, Generaf Counsel, Cray Research Inc. John Tryon C.S.C. '72 '84 Chicago IL, Educator Tony Van Hoof '89 Winona MN, Computer Software Company Executive JeffVanderWilt '85 South Bend IN, Graduate Student Robert H. Warye '72 South Bend IN, Retired teacher Dick Watson '64 Springfield IL, Library Technical Specialist James J. Weber '63 San Francisco CA, Psychologist Greg Weithman '78 Boston MA, Architect Andrew M. Welling '84 Chicago IL, Corporate Marketing and Communications Manager Tony Wesley '79 Cfeveland OH, Certified Public Accountant Thomas R. Zahn '67 Saint Paul MNChair GALA­1ND/SMC; Prestdent, Architectural Consulting Firm Joseph H. Zilvinskis '80 Cliula Vista CA, Production Manager  
GALA-ND/SMC is nor affiliated with rhe Notre Dame Alumni Association  

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, March 27, 1995 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 

Dean gives Kentucky lessons on shooting 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. It was supposed to be a change of the coaching guard. 
North Carolina's Dean Smith, soon to be responsible for more wins than anyone in college basketball history, passing the baton to Kentucky's Rick Pitino, the best coach never to win a championship. 
The Little Professor will have to return to the classroom, though. Dean the Dream isn't ready to give up his title. 
"Not many people figured us out, but coach Smith did. Our biggest weakness all year has been our perimeter shooting," Pitino said, acknowledging he was the second-best coach at the Birmingham-Jefferson Civic Center on Saturday. 
The Tar Heels laid back in the Jane, daring Kentucky to keep shooting from beyond the 3­point arc. The Wildcats obliged by throwing up one bomb after another, a season-high 36 in all. 
"If you look at our success this year, we haven't been shooting 3-pointers as much as we used to. Why we did, I don't know." said Pitino, still stunned from a 7 4-61 setback that sent North Carolina to the Final Four for the third time in five years. 
When the brick-a-thon was over, top-seeded Kentucky had made only seven of those 36 shots from long range, just 21­of-75 overall for a season-low 28 percent. Meanwhile, No. 2 seed North Carolina displayed the kind of balance and poise that had made the Wildcats lethal all year. 
Smith tried to steer attention away from his game plan. "In many ways, we are fortunate they didn't shoot better," he said. "We just gambled. They aren't a bad shooting team, they just didn't shoot well." 
In fact, when the second of two straight exquisite passes from All-American Jerry Stackhouse to Rasheed Wallace set up a basket which pushed a four-point lead to 62-54 with 
4:32 remaining, the Tar Heels had all the points they would need. 
"We've won so many games in the last five minutes," said Smith, who has won 830 games in his career, second only to Adolph Rupp, and is making his 10th trip to the Final Four, eclipsed only by John Wooden's 12. 
"At Wake, at Duke, just go on and on. We have been a poised team and I felt we were (Saturday)." 
Kentucky, on the other hand, definitely lacked in that cate­gory. Pitino should have had an inkling when his center, Andre Riddick, exploded in anger after taking an elbow to the chin from Wallace. Riddick grabbed at Wallace's neck, shoved a 
Regionals Semifinals 
Semifinals Regionals 
MIDWEST EAST 
1. Kansas 

4.Virglnia 
4. 
Kansas City, Missouri 4.0k.St. 
East Rutherford, N.J. March24 & 26 March 24 & 26 

Seattle, Washington 
SOUTHEAST April 1 WEST 
1.UCLA
1. 
Oakland, California 
2. 
The Observer/Tom Rolan< 

FATHER RICHARD McBRIEN 
PROFESSOR OF THEOLOGY 
SPEAKS ON 


''STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES OF THE PRESENT PAPACY?'' 
Wednesday, March 29 7:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 
Kentucky assistant who tried to restrain him and then kicked over a chair on the sideline. 
"That broke a little momen­tum for us," Pitino said, "but it didn't lose the game." 
In fact, Kentucky stretched its 8-2 advantage at the time of the scuffle into a 13-5 advantage, its biggest of the game, and didn't seem to lose any of its defensive swagger. Rodrick Rhodes knocked away an inlet pass, smiled and shook his head as if to say, "Don't come in my neighborhood." The Wildcats also came up with a couple of steals and forced the Heels into a 35-second violation on anoth­er possession. 
But something else was going on at the other end of the court. Kentucky kept firing up 3­pointers -and kept missing, squandering one chance after another to put the Tar Heels away. "We's make one pass and shoot a 3," Pitino grum­bled. ''I'm kind of stunned. 
We've worked on being a team all season, and then we showed up as individuals. 'I' showed up instead of 'we."' 
Pitino's team could have learned a few lessons from North Carolina, which put up 26 fewer shots than Kentucky but made three more (24-of-49 for 49 percent). Stackhouse was awesome, beating his man off the dribble, hulling his way inside to draw fouls, dominat­ing the boards. 
Stackhouse was mugged in the Jane enough times to sink 11 of 14 free throws, account­ing for, most of his 18 points. Be knew when to pass. finishing with a game-high six assists. And with Wallace able to play only 23 minutes because of foul trouble, Stackhouse led ev­eryone with 12 rebounds, sti­fling the Wildcats' inside game. 
"Not only were they not shooting well, but we were con­testing their shots," said Stackhouse. 
Free April 8, 1995 8:30 a.m. -12:30 p.m. Cushing Auditorium A FREE Princeton Review "Preview" Class will be held on Tuesday, April 11 7 to 9 p.m. 115 O'Shaughnessy --:1 Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy  
1994-95 MAINSTAGE SEASON NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTSOUR COUNTRY'S BY TiMBERLAKE WERTEN BAKERGOOD DIRECTED BY REGINALD BAIN WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5.. . 8 P.M. THURSDAY, APRIL 6 .. .. 8 P.M. FRIDAY, APRIL 7.. ..... 8 P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 8 ....... 8 P.M. SUNDAY, APRIL 9 ..... 2:30P.M. RESERVED SEATS $7 STUDENT AND SENIOR CmZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND SUNDAY. TICKErS ARE AVAJLABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER liCKEf OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631·8128. N H A L L VIEWERS MAY FIND SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN THIS PLAY OFFENSIVE.  

--------~-------~----------------------------­
Monday, March 27, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• SAINT MARY'S SOFTBALL 
Aggresive Belles sweep weekend twin bill 
By LORI GADDIS Spons Wrircr 
The Saint Mary's softball team returned from Chicago victorious Saturday evening, after defeating Concordia in both games of their double header. The Belles easily closed out both games by scores of 10-2 and 13-8. Saint Mary's record now stands at 8-4. 
Although the Belles won both games, they struggled to hold on to the win in the second game. Lori Langenderfer, Saint Mary's' winning pitcher in the 
WNIT 
continued from page 20 
For the Irish, this may have been the best game of the year. 
"That was the best we've played all year," Bohman said. "We just played really good and surprised them." 
. "We were really relaxed," Peirick added. "We played our game and had fun." 
Sophomore forward Beth Morgan continued her sixth woman role and led the Irish with 21 points in 21 minutes. Bowen led the Irish with seven rebounds in her final game, and the Irish oiTense shot over 53 percent in the game while sprinting to an early 44-25 half-time lead. 
The game also has a pro­found effect on next years team. With only one senior, the Irish have most of the team second game, commented on the team's performance. 
"Overall we played well," Langenderfer said. "We strug­gled in the second game because of mental errors, but we kept our head in the game and got back into it." 
Coach Maggie Killian feels that the Belles cannot continue to make the mental errors and allow teams to come back. 
"We cannot afford to make the errors against better teams," Killian stated. "The better teams will not allow us to get back into the game like we 
returning and the win gives them confidence going into the next season. 
After beating Pacific in the first round of the tournament, the Irish lost their second round game to Northwestern State 103-93. 
While the Irish offense shot over 58 percent and out-re­bounded the Lady Demons 41­29, the Irish turned the ball over 27 times and lost a 13 point halftime lead. 
"In the second half they were hitting everything," Bohman said. "They just could not miss. We got frustrated as a team." 
While the Irish ended the season on the high note with the third place finish in the WNIT, they mourn the gradua­tion of one of their key players in Bowen. As the only senior on the team, much of the leadership responsibility fell on her. 
did Saturday. In the second game, we had one bad inning that gave Concordia the chance to come back. We gave our­selves trouble and didn't play our best until the last two innings. But the girls really showed determination and played well until the end of the game." 
Coach Killian attributes the team's success to the Belles' 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
CLUB SPORTS The Observer is interested in cov­ering club sports teams for the Spring. Captains or represen­tatives of teams are invited to visit the Observer office or call the Sports Department at 631· 4543 
CHALLENGR·U AEROBICS • · All classes willhe half price for the remainder·_ of tha year. Spots are still open. 
DROP·IN·VOLLEYBALL • RecSports is offering drop-in volleyball on Tuesdays April 11,18, and 25. Come by your­self or bring a friend. The ses­sions are from 8·11 pm in the JACC. No team~. or advanced sign-ups jl.re neces$ 
,:\:})(:.::.: 
lll!).. ••• :.. 
. I{OPPS $. ......_._ _... ___ .... t RecSports willl)~ sponsoring a Hoop Shoot~Outtomorrow at 7pm in the JACC. The Shoot· Out will consist of a One-on­One contest, a Three Point contest, and a Free Throw contest. Must register by aggressiveness while batting. Catcher Gretchen Moore had two hits in the second game and shortstop Shannon Heise hit a blast into the fence, just missing fair territory. 
Saint Mary's' intensity also helped them to come back against Concordia. Center fielder Michelle Limb felt that this had a major role in what helped the Belles to overcome 
today. There is no fee for the event. For more info call 1· 6100. 
WEEKEND RAQUETBALL TOURNAMENT • This tourna· ment will be on Friday, March 31 and Saturday, April 1. There will be men's and WOffiw en's divisions with t·sbirts awarded to all participants. Bring your own racquet, but balls will be provided. Refreshments will be served . Register in advance with the RecSports office by Thursday, March 30 and there is a $6 fee. For more info call1·6100. 
CASTING AND ANGLING EVENT • Course includes four sessions whlch meet on Tuesdtty!J'fr~ni l:i·7:30 pm. 'thedat~s~eAPrU-4, 11,--18, ·and 25; Classes are held in the JACC, 'Rolf, and campus lakes. EqUipment is provided, but participants are encour· 
aged to bring their own. The 
fee is $8 and the class is open 
to all. Advance registration in their struggles in the second game. 
"As our lead started to dimin­ish, our intensity became very high. Concordia tied it up but we kept control and came back to win it," she said. "We really played well as a team when we needed to, both at bat and in the field." 
Saint Mary's plays at Bethel College at 3:00 on Tuesday. 
the RecSports office is required. Participants are also given the chance to buy equip· ment at discounted prices. 
SMC 4-0N-4 VOLLEYBALL ­Play will be on Wednesdays in April, concluding with a single elimination tournament on the 26th, Each team must have six players, with no more than on varsity per team. Turn ros­ters in to the front desk at Angela by March 31st. 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BENEFIT -A 5k or 10k run with a lk walk will he held on April 1st to benefit Christmas in April. The will be six divi· sions in each run and trophies to the top finishers. T·shirts will be given to all registrants. The cost is $5 in advance and $6 the day of. All participants must sign the necessary forms which can be obtained at RecSports or at the events. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 

WfiiiD~~ ®if ~ilil ffil~V®Ir~~ 




·oaily Lunch 
Specials 4 TV Screens 

IID~Iff!~ 
Weeki 

Specia s 
Monday 25C Wings & Dollar Domestic 
Tuesday 

Any Beverage Pitcher $4 
Wednesday Beverage Pitchers $3 Thursday Feast for Four 

$1995 
•50 
Wings 

•Curly 
Fries 



•Pitcher of Domestic Beverage or Soda 
AsK AsouT OuR WALL OF FLAME 
838 University Center 6502 Grape Road 
(between Service Merchandise & Best Buy) 
Phone 273-0088 
• 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 27, 1995 
• SAiNT MARY'S TRACK 

Belles successful on individual and team level 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Spons Editor 
Practice makes perfect. And Saturday, lots of practice meant close to perfection for the Saint Mary's track team in their stel­lar performance at the Wabash Invitational. After doing excep­tionally well in two indoor meets earlier in March, the Belles brought their successes outside Saturday with their 111 point finish. Out of the 19 B-elles who competed in the invitational, 15 placed in their events. 
"Because the Belles did well in the Chicago and Huntington indoor meets, I had great hopes for Wabash," said the track coach Larry Szczechowski. "The Belles did extremely well Saturday. They carried their accomplishments and improve­ments into the meet." 
Although there were five women's teams at the meet, the competition was geared more towards the individual level. Paula Kivinen, a sophomore, 

WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY MARCH 31 & APRIL 1 
JOYCE CENTER 
Men's & Women's Divisions T -Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Thursday, March 30 $6.00 Fee 
O'laughlin Auditorium Friday, March 31 • 8:00 P.M. Saturday, Aprill • 8:00 P.M. Sunday, April 2, • 2:30 P.M. 

Featuring choreography by Guest Artist Sue Cherry, Faculty and Students Artistic Direction by lndi Dieckgrafe • Performed by SMC Dance Workshop 
TICKETS: 56/ADULTS; 54/SENIOR CITIZENS &GROUPS; 53/SMC·ND COMMUNITY; 52/STUDENTS TICKETS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOX OFFICE, LOCATED IN O'lAUGHLIN ....... AUDIIORIIW, OPEN FROM 9 · 5, MON. · FRI. DISCOVER, VISA, MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219 / 284·4626 
placed first in the high jump against tough competition. 
"I was pretty excited about the jump. The girls that I was up against were better than usual, and I had not expected to do so well," said Kivinen. 
Kivinen jumped five feet Saturday. The jump is only three inches away from break­ing the school's record, which Kivinen hopes to break by the end of the season. Kivinen was not alone in her accomplish­ments, however. Kristin Donahue, a sophomore sprint­er, earned eleven points Saturday with her third place fmish in the long jump, and fin­ishes in the 100 and 200 meter races. 
Michelle Wenner, a junior distance runner and also a team captain, placed third in the 3000 meter race with her timing of 11:30. Erin Mellifont, a sophomore distance runner ran an incredible race which earned her fourth place in the 800 meter. 
"Mellifont ran against a lot of competition," said Coach Szczechowski. "She ran an incredible race which really rallied the team. We were real­ly happy with her race." 
The team's leading scorer on Saturday was junior Jill Jusick. Jusick placed in four of her five events including third in the 100 meter, second in the long jump, second in the 4 by 100 meter relay, and sixth in the triple jump. 
"I was really happy with my performance on Saturday-especially in the 100 meter.," said Jusick. "I think that the whole team did exceptionally well. Since it was our first meet, we hope to carry our suc­cess throughout the rest of the season." 
Kelly Medlin, a sophomore and the team's leading shot putter, broke the school record Saturday with her 33'10" cast. Medlin's rocket secured her a fourth place finish in the event. 
"I was excited to have broken the record, but I was expecting it," said Medlin. I normally throw around two feet further than I threw Saturday, so I expected to break it but by a lot more. I was pleased, but I knew that I could've done bet­ter." 
The old shot put record was only 31'7" and was set back in 1982. 
Other great performances included Julie Govorko's second place finish in the javelin throw and Joann Weed's third place finish in the triple jump. 
Overall the meet was a great incentive for the Belles, provid­ing great excitement and hopes for the rest of the season. 

~ -~-----­-------~ ~ 
~----~------------------~-­
Monday, March 27, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
,.,...
• BASEBALL 
~­
. ; 
.


Sluggers cane Miami 5-2 t
~~--·. ­
By MEGAN McGRATH season. sparked by lead-off hitter Rick Spons Writer "Playing Miami tough is just Gama. The second baseman hit the kind of confidence builder two home runs and a double as 
The bad news of the weekend 
we need to start our home sea­part of a 4-5, four RBI perfor­for the Irish baseball team was son," Mainieri says. "This is mance. they extended their losing 
the part of the season where we Scott Sollman went 2-4 and streak to four games by drop­can get our heads above water Randall Brooks 2-2 with a dou­
ping two games 9-4 and 12-4 to and put together some winning ble for Notre Dame. Shortstop
the third ranked Miami 
streaks." J.J. Brock had two RBI on his 
I lurricanes. 
But before Notre Dame can first homer of the season. The good news came Sunday 
get to Wednesday's home open­Saturday the Irish went up as Notre Dame rebounded to er with Bowling Green, they against pre-season All-America beat the Canes 5-2 in Miami. had to play baseball pow­pitcher Jason Adge. Adge lived 
Third baseman Mike Amrhein erhouse Miami. up to the billing by no-hitting went 2-5 with a home run, a In Friday night's first game, Notre Dame for five and two­double and two HI~I to lead the Irish showed a bit of nerves, thirds innings en route to his Notre Dame. surrendering seven runs in the seventh win of the season. 
Senior righty Craig Allen first six innings. Only four of The few offensive highlightsearned the win by going six and 
those runs were earned, as for the Irish occurred with two two-thirds innings, surrender­Notre Dame committed three outs in the sixth, when they fi­ing one earned run and five errors in the game. nally got to Adge. Christian The Observer I John Bingham 
Senior captain Craig DeSensi had a homer against Miami. 
hits. Senior Tim Kraus got his Pitcher Darin Schmalz got his Parker and Ryan Topham drew 
third save. first loss in four starts. The walks, and captain Craig long-ball of his collegiate ca­nings. Starting pitcher ParkerNotre Dame's 9-9 record may 
sophomore went five and two­DeSeni drove them in with his reer. was driven from the hill after n.ot seem outstanding, but for 
thirds innings, surrendering first homer of the season. Even with the run production, three and a third innings hav­head coach Paul Mainieri. the 
four earned runs and six hits . Sophomore catcher Justin the Irish still found themselves ing given up six earned runs . 500 mark is exactly where he The Miami attack was Scholl followed with his first trailing by seven after six in-and seven hits. 
wanted to be at this point in the 
May 1995 Graduates Personalized Graduation Announcements 
by Balfour 
(Sample text only) 
The Preswent, Trustees and Facu£ty ofthe University of Notre Dame are p[eased to announce that 
Student Name -;---~ De6orafi M. Sasso 
and Degree personalized is acandtcfatefor tfie cfegree of into the text on --+------1~ Bacfie[or ofScience 
each announcement. J attfte 
One Huncfrccf Fiftieth 
Annua[ Commencement on Suncfay May 21, 1995 
$16.95 for package of 15, 
including 2 envelopes each; add'l packs of 5 @ $5.65/pack 
Order in person: 


Tues., Wed., March 28, 29 
9:30am -4:30 pm LaFortune Student Center Dooley Room, 1st floor 
Order NOW by mail or phone to: 
Mon. -Fri., 8 -5
Balfour 
317/241-5000 with questions 
2346 So. Lynhurst Dr. 
800/236-4639 orders only 
Suite 500 
fax: 317/241-0430Indianapolis, IN 46241 

Associated Press Poll 
Baseball fans balk 
If replacement players 
l
Q
are used when the 
1 regular season starts, would you attend... ? 
Same 
45% nu·m.b·e.·r 
• ,.~
-~~­
M~e ~~~·~ -~o~'t attend
4% 
0.91.1_:_~ 1<!191111 1% 
Q
Would you watch more l games on television, 
1 fewer games or the same number? 
Q 
Once the strike is over,1 will your interest in 1 baseball be... ? 
Source: 403 fana Identified In a random national telephone poll of 1,002 adults by ICR Survey Research Group of Media. Pa.• part of AUS Consultants. Results have a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 5 percentage points. Sums may not total 100 percent because of rounding. 
AP 



-~ -----------­
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, March 27, 1995 
• LACROSSE 
Irish explode against Hobart 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame, ranked 17th na­tionally, scored five unan­swered goals in the second half as the Irish won their second straight game in defeating 18th ranked Hobart 10-7 at Moose Krause Stadium on Saturday. That evenedthe Irish's record to 3-3 for the season, while the Slatesmen lost their first game of the season and fell to 2-1. 
Randy Colley scored four goals to lead the Irish, while teammate Mike Maroney netted two in the contest. 
The two teams exchanged leads throughout the first half. Colley opened the game with an unassisted goal with 12:32 left in the first quarter. Hobart then scored two goals to take a 2-1 lead on goals by Eric Curry and Josh Kenney. 
After the Statesmen took the lead 2-1, the Irish then netted three unanswered goals. Mike Maroney scored the first of his two goals when he knotted the game at 2-2 on an assist from Burke Hayes with 2:41 left in the first quarter. Will Sutton put the Irish up 3-2 with a goal at 1:55 on an assist from Billy Gallagher. Colley finished off the first quarter scoring as he netted his second goal of the game on an assist from Brian Gilfillan. 
Hobart scored three times to take a 5-4 advantage in the game with 6:14 to play. 
The Irish rmished off the first half scoring as Colley tallied his third goal of the game with four minutes left before intermission as the two teams went into 

NEEDAJOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" to fill staffing assignments for area families in need ofchild care services. 0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 
to find out more! 

Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
--·----------­
·-­
great scores••• 

Kaplan helps you focus your LSAT studies and build your confidence so you can get a higher score. 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 

KAPLAN 
• As documented in the May 1994 Kaplan LSAT Performance Study conducted by Price Waterhouse. 

KAPLAN 
halftime deadlocked at 5-5. 
Hobart opened up the scoring in the third quarter to take a 6­5 advantage on an unassisted goal by Mike Sweeney. It would be the last Statesman lead of the game. 
Notre Dame then exploded for five unanswered goals to take a 10-6 lead. Irish goals were scored by Maroney, J.T. Tremante, Jason Pett, Colley, and Kevin Mahoney. Tremante's unassisted goal with 6:57 left in the third quar­ter proved to be the game win­ner. 

THE NOTRE DAME POM PON SQUAD 
invites you to attend an informational meeting for those interested in trying out for the 1995-96 squad! DATE: March 29, 1995 TIME: 7:30 pm PLACE: Notre Dame Room in LaFortune (2nd Floor) Questions? Call Shloe 634-2777 or Jill 284-5259! 
WE HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE! 
TI-IE1995 SENIOR INFORMAL -Friday, April 21st­
~ 

TO BENEFIT THE HOLY CROSS MISSION 
-IN EAST AFRICA ' 
7ki<tisc.n Sa/eat theOnplsMnj!JifYGlirejn the . . Heibffgh lilraJY 
Full Sit Down Dinner Banquet Three Great Bands fer Dandng 
Krautni.str ~.lift/eM/ten~ GargeandtheFrffi.::s·.,_-1111"'] 
At St. Patrick's Parish Center DowntCJWn South Bend 
' $10/person 


DCXJrs open at 6:00p.m. Dinner promptly at 6:30p.m. 
' 
M!i'-l!STRY 


FREE SUBWAY &·INCH SUBS!* 
* 

Free admission with NDISMC student ID 
First 500 students with ND ISMC student ID get afree coupon for afree &·inch Subway sub at participating area locations (no purchase necessary)! 
Monday, March 27,1995 The Observer • TODAY MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 


5\-\E. S~~S S\IE ~EEDS  
TO GET II DoNI: SCl  
'S\\E C~ \l9ACTICE.  
11\E. ?\~~a W\\EN  'T\-\E GEN\kR  
S\-\t. ffi'CS \-10\v\E.!  "  \=ROM 0\J\ER SP~CE.".'  
----.r----'1~  \  

f 
~ 
!l 
I 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
~------------------~or---------------~~~~
8 AFTER YEARS OF BEING ~ I DIDN'T REALIZE CONTINUED.
IN A WAY, I't'\ GLAD THE tLBONlAN5 !\UN THIS COI"\PANY NOW 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
t -Park, N.Y. 5 Cider season • 9 Layer of paint 
t3 Kind of collar t4 Together, musically t51982 Stallone action role tl Florsheim product t7 With 62-Across, words of 
caution tl Sen. Kennedy 20 Mr. Lugosi 21 Athletes' 
negotiators 22 Spartacus, e.g. 24 Wing: Prefix 26 Intelligent sea 
creature 
28 Early American statesman­King 
33 Vituperate 35 How some packages are 
sent 37 Small rail bird 38 Ones who don't 
enunciate 40 Lashes down 42 City near 
Monaco 43 Restaurant bill 45 Tropical eels 41 Scouts do good 
ones 41Diet 50 Australian 
marsupial 52 Muse of poetry 55 Catered event 
THE ONLY FEMALE ENGIN­ ~  YOU HAD COFFEE  
EER I'Ll ENJ"OY WAlCH­ ~  WENCHES IN  
ING THE. ELBONIANS  !  TI-II5 COUNTRY  

DISCRIMINATe AGAINST ~ 
YOU GUY5 E 
) ~ 
c 
::> 
.. 
"' "' Q 
.... 
I 
"' 

~----------------~~M~~~----~_.--~~~.U 
59 Lawyers' 
degrees &t Auto part &2 See 17 -Across 64"-boy!" 
&5 Sea eagles 68 Actor James -Jones 
&7 "Portnoy's Complaint" author 
68 6-3, 4-6, 6-1, e.g. &9 "-bienI" 
(French accolade) 
70 Carpet layer's calculation 
DOWN t Pauses 2 Singer Waters 3 With 30-Down, what 17-and 62-Across are 
4 A quarter of four ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
5 Lose color &Newspaper publisher Ochs 1 Asylum resident 
27 Sprightly 
page 19 CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

1·27 

"Let go ot the ceiling, Wilkins!" 
t{t':•., ...
'II OF 1111'£RESi" 
. Euchre Tournament Registration will begin on April 4 ~n4 5 at 7:00 p.m. in the Gorch Game Room.qost is $6 per team. · · 
. , .. A Spring 9-Ball Tournament Is being held In the .Gorch Game Room on March 28. The finals will be held on March 29 if necessary. The tournament starts at 
7:30 p.m. There will be prizes and an entry fee of $5 Is 
.re~f14~ 
i:iiM. A Job Search Orientation for juniors will be held today from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. in the Hayes·Healy Auditorium. This presentation is designed to give jtiniors an overview of the types of activities involved In preparing for the job search in their senior year as well as how the Career and Placement Services Office can assist in this process. 
Meet your Arts and Letters Major today: Asian Studies will be in 433 Decio from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m., Dian Murray presents "How to Choose a Major" in 114 O'Shag at 4:30 p.m., philosophy will be in 115 O'Shag (rom 5:00 to 6:00 p.m.• history will be in 120 O'Shag S,lso from 5:00 to 6:00p.m., ALPP and education will be in 115 O'Shag from 6:00 to 7:00p.m., prelaw will be in 120 O'Shag also from 6:00 to 7:00p.m., the PPE concen­tration will be 114 O'Shag from 6:00 to 7:00p.m., COni is presented in 115 O'Shag from 7:00 to 8:00p.m., CAPP will be in 120 O'Shag from 7:00 to 8:00p.m., art history al1d art is in 127 0' Sh&g also from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m., English will be in 115 O'Shag from 8:00 to 9:00 p.m., and European Studies will be in 120 O'Shag from 8:00 tp 9:00p.m. 
;::>< 
•MENU 
1111Notr~Dame 
i~NORTH 
&; HunanSweet and Sour Chicken · · Tangy Chicken Sandwich 

• 
.. 
-
• 
• 
., 


8 Permit 
9 Neanderthals' home 
to Harbinger 
t t Adjoi n 
12 Take these o~ for a spin t5 Harshness t8 Civil War vets' 
org. 20 -of the ball 
25 Biblical son 
29 Underworld money lender 30 See 3-Down 31 Chemistry Nobelist Harold 32 Lip 33 Sunder 34 Writer Wiesel 
a Moore of "Indecent Proposal" 
39 F.D.R. 'smother -Delano 
41 Arrives 44 Protective glass cover 470nthe-­
(declining) 49 In abundance 51 -pro nobis 53 Sip 54 D-Day beach 55 Thumbs-up 
votes 56 Golfer's shout 57 Allen of "Candid 
Camera" 58 War deity 60 Oil quantities: 
Abbr. 63 Still and all 64 Mr. Gershwin 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
J.\J•t•J..I(~il'l,lf)NS illll~ Nf)lt7 III~IN(; il(~(~I~I•'J,I~I) 
l~f)ll '1,111~ 
I~n.1~s 11tiJlN ()Itii~N't,Jl'ri••N «~•• tiiii't,r•~•~. 
Applications are available in the Student Government Office and are due by Friday, March 31. 
... 
-
• 
• 
.. 
• 
• SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, March 27, 1995 ­
• IRISH fOOTBALl RECRUIT 
Moss charged following high school fight 
By MIKE NORBUT Moss turned himself in with his (third) student's name and some condition. 
Sports Editor lawyer's accompaniment. He was smears," DuPont High School Principal Moss and the third student were sus­released into his mother's custody on a Patrick Law said. "Apparently there was pended from school Friday. Their read­Notre Dame football recruit Randy $5000 personal recognizance bond something written there." mittance will depend on the outcome of Moss has been charged with malicious following his appearance in magistrate The fight erupted between Johnson the case, said Mike Bell, spokesman for 
wounding following a racially motivated 
court on Friday, said Kanawha County and the third student in the hallway of Kanawha County schools. fight Thursday, according to the Sheriff's Department Lt. W.G. Slimick. the school, provoking Moss to jump in A prison sentence could be groundsKanawha County Sheriff's Department. Moss will reappear in court on and leaving Johnson hospitalized. for expulsion, which would put Moss' 
Moss, 18 of Belle, W.Va. and another 
Wednesday, April 12, for a preliminary The other two students left the fray graduation from high school in jeopardy. black student, 17, fought with a white hearing to determine probable cause. If uninjured. Without a high school diploma, Moss student, 18-year old Roy Johnson of 
convicted, Moss could face a maximum Johnson was admitted to the intensive could also stand to lose his scholarshipPond Gap. Authorities refused to release 
sentence of ten years in prison, accord­care unit of the Charleston Area Medical to play football at Notre Dame. the name of the third student because of ing to magistrate court attorney Phyllis Center with a concussion and internal A 6-5, 205-pound Parade All­his age. Gatson . injuries to the spleen, kidneys, and liver, American at wide receiver, Moss was 
No charges were filed initially, but The fight started when Johnson pro­according to hospital spokesperson the blue-chip athlete that gave the Irish after further investigation by both school voked the third student by writing a Karen Frashier. the top recruiting class in the nation. officials and local authorities, a warrant racial slur on a classroom desk. Johnson was moved into a regular Notre Dame officials declined to com­was released for Moss' arrest. "All we know is that there was the room Sunday and is currently in stable ment on the situation. 
• fENCING

• HOCKEY 
Fencers
Schafer steps down as Irish coach 
• JocK STRiP
Ex-coach feels 
stand in 
Reason fornew direction 
fourth

ineptitude onnecessary 
By JOE VILLINSKI By MICHAEL DAY 
Assistant Sporrs Editor 

ice now gone
SportS Writer 

The Notre Dame fencing
The inevitable became offi­team is seeing double with the 
cial on Friday afternoon. Let's not 
women's portion of the NCAA Notre Dame hockey coach Ric beat around 
championships in the books. Schafer resigned his position the bush 
With two days done and two with the Irish after spending here, the days left, the Irish placed two eighteen seasons in the pro­hockey pro­
fencers in the top three in the gram as a player, assistant, gram at 
country over the weekend in and head coach. Notre Dame their quest for two champi­
is an utter Tim Sherman
In a move that came as little onships in a row. 
surprise to most fans and crit­e m b a r r a s s _ Associate Spores 
Foil captain Maria Panyi fin­ics, Schafer, a 1974 Notre ment to the Editor 
ished second in the nation to 
Dame graduate and co-cap­athletic program. Fortunately, Penn State's Olga Kalinovskya, tain, stepped down to explore the main reason for the inepti­
who captured her third other business opportunities tude on ice is gone. 
straight women's foil title. · both outside and within the After .eight years at the helm 
As expected, the title was set­University. of the Irish hockey team, Ric 
tled between these two rivals. "Since our season ended two Schafer finally did the right 
With a throng of peopleweeks ago, I've tried to look at thing and resigned. It was a 
watching, Panyi battled our program, where we've move which had to be made. 
Kalinovskya to a 4-2 lead be­come from and where we're Former basketball coach 
fore the three-time champion 
Contributed by Notre Dame Sports Information 
After eight years as hockey coach, Ric Schafer resigned on Friday. 
see STORY I page 12see SCHAFER I page 12 see NCAA I page 11 

Third place finish in WNIT 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT son champions, Bowen amaz­son on a high note with a win," Assistant Spom Editor ingly amassed 999 career Bowen said. rebounds and sophomore "Not being invited to the Is the glass half-empty or 
Katryna Gaither emerged as NCAA was a big disappointment half-full? The Notre Dame 
one of the dominant centers in and we didn't win the WNIT," women's basketball team failed 
the nation. freshman guard Mollie Peirick to make the NCAA tournament, 
And last Saturday, when the said. -"But we won our last lost in the Midwestern 
Irish defeated Massachusetts game and not many teams can Collegiate tournament and 
90-72 to clinch third place in do that. So many teams end the Letitia Bowen finalized her Irish 
the WNIT and became one of season with a loss." career one rebound short of a 
only a few teams in the nation "The biggest thing was that thousand. 
to end their season with a vic­we wanted to go out with a On the other hand, the Irish 
tory, they finalized that their win," sophomore forward were one of only eight teams glass is definitely more full than Rosanne Bohman explained. 
invited to the women's NIT, 
it is empty. 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
they were the MCC regular sea­
"It was good to end the sea-Senior Letitia Bowen capped off her brilliant career over the weekend. 
see WNITI page 16 
Monday, March 27 

Tuesday, March 28 Wednesday, March 29 
Thursday, March 30 
ND Fencing: NCAA Championships 
ND Softball at Michigan ND Baseball: Home opener vs. 
ND Baseball vs. Cincinani, 4 p.m. at St. Mary's Angela Center 
Bowling Green 
Eck Stadium (Monday through Tuesday) 
SMC Tennis at Calvin College Eck Stadium 
ND Softball vs. Bowling Green, 
10:00 a.m. 1\!ft:n's foil and epee 4 p.m. 
3p.m. at Ivy Field Preliminaries 
SMC Softball at Bethel College ND Women's tennis vs Illinois 
4:00 p.m. Men's sabre round robin 3 p.m. 















