

Monday, November 6, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No.50 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Resurrected Guide takes case to Faculty Senate 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
It's not dead yet. 
The publishers of The Guide, are trying to resur­rect their troubled student opinion-based evalua­tion of professors and courses, and project coordinator Andrew Eifert is cautiously optimistic 
I 
about their chances of succeeding. Eifert said organizers have developed two plans j of attack, and he believes one will work. 
"There will be an edition of The Guide in the spring," Eifert said in an interview yesterday. The new edition would include evaluations for fall 1995 courses, so students could use the informa­tion to make their fall 1996 course selections. 
According to Eifert, organizers will set their first plan in motion almost immediately. Student Government will petition the Faculty Senate at its meeting this week to consider support a measure that would include The Guide evaluation form in the same packet that contains the University­developed Teacher Course Evaluations. 
Eifert said he hopes the Senate will respond pos­itively to the petition. "We're going to give it a shot and see what happens. 
The second possibility would entail passing out The Guide forms directly to students. Eifert said packets might be offered to students at Dining Halls, at the Student Government office or another central location. Students would be asked to dis­tribute the forms to their classes and return them to a drop off point. Publicity for the project would be handled through advertising or word-of-mouth. 
While details still need to be hashed out, Eifert
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
is certain an issue can be published. "One of these 
Semper Fi! 
ideas will happen," he said. 
The United States Marine Corps Silent Drill Team performs at halftime during the Notre Dame-Navy football game this past Saturday. 
see GUIDE I page 4 


Israelis mourn slain leader, country in turmoil 
By KARIN LAUB York. Yaakov Geneck, quietly )ages by the end of the year. Assouated Press sat in a corner. with a sign an­Some delays were possible as 
nouncing he was on a hunger Rabin's successor, Shimon 
JEHUSALEM strike to protest growing vio­Peres, puts together a caretaker 
Tens of thousands of Israelis, lence. government. numy weHping, many bearing Geneck said he opposed Ra­Born in Jerusalem in 1922, flowers, silently filed past the bin's peace policies, but could Rabin was the nation's first na­simpln wooden coffin of Prime not condone the behavior of tive-born prime minister and at Minister Rabin's opponents. "I am here the center of its history for more Yitzhak Babin to say that the hatred of so than 50 years. He joined the on Sunday, in many people led to this. I have elite Palmach unit of the a final salute 
encountered this hatred and I J-laganah Jewish underground to the as­did not speak out," said Geneck. in Palestine, and fought in the sassinatml sol­who moved to Israel two years siege of Jerusalem during the dier. states­ago. 1948 war. man and man Rabin's assassination at a He was the military chief of of peace. pro-peace rally in Tel Aviv on staff when Israel defeated three 
The parade Saturday night stunned a nation Arab armies in the 1967
Rabin 
of mourners that, despite increasingly bitter Mideast war, Israel's ambas­came from all over tlw shocked divisions over peacemaking sador to the United States, and saddened country to a with the Arabs, had somehow prime minister in the 1970s, 

Rabin shooting scene 
(!) Rabin speaks at podium at 8 p.m. ® He stands waving to the crowd ®He walks down stairs to get to car, 
amid crowd of dozens at 9:30 p.m. @ Shot entering car ®Assailant pushed by dozens of police 
against wall @ Assailant taken to police car AP/C. Sanderson 
eourtyard in front of the Israeli denied that sueh violence could and defense minister in the rael is hurting and crying," up to Jerusalem through the happen to them. 1980s. read the headline in the Yediot rocky, eternal hills. Thousands The suspect. Yigal Amir, a 27-He was appointed prime min­Ahronot newspaper. of cars were parked along the 
• see RABIN, page 5 
year-old law student with links ister again after his Labor party Tens of thousands stood highway as Israelis strained to 
to the Jewish extremist fringe, won the 1992 elections, and his silently Sunday at the site of the catch a glimpse. parliament. The procession was told interrogators he wanted to peacemaking with the PLO assassination. A sea of memo­Habin's coffin was placed on a expocted to continue all night stop Rabin's peace policies. He earned him the 1994 Nobel rial candles, bouquets, hand­black bier in the plaza outside 
until the start of a state funeral reportedly said his actions were Peace Prize, along with Peres written prayers and Rabin pho­the parliament. Rabin's widow, Monday attended by dozens of based on rabbinical rulings that and PLO chiefYasser Arafat. tographs covered the spot Leah, supported by her son, world leaders. ineluding Presi­permit .Jews to kill people who Dubbed "Mr. Security," Rabin where the prime minister was Yuval, and daughter Dalia, 
dent Clinton. gave away parts of the biblical was the one politician Israelis shot. A sign in Hebrew read, slowly walked toward the coffin. Even as Israelis mourned, Ljtnd of Israel. trusted enough to take the risks "Why?" From time to time, she buried they tried to grasp the enormity "There were many writings involved along the rocky path "Rabin was looking to the fu­her tear-stained face in her 
of tlw upheaval thrust upon on the wall, but still we felt this toward peaee. ture. He was looking out for us, hands, and slumped on Yuval's their eountry when a Jewish eould not happen to us," said But the political climate had the younger generation," said shoulder. opponent of Habin's peacemak­Chaim Ramon, ehief of the pow­turned unprecedentedly ven­Amir Shavir, an 18-year-old Yuval quietly recited the 
ing gunned him down. erful llistadrut Trade Union omous in recent months, and from Tel Aviv. "They killed him. Kaddish, or prayer for the dead. They killed my hope." Tens of thousands of Israelis
Many gently placed bouquets Federation. Rabin personally had become of flowers on stone tiles near Rabin's death raised imme­the target of increasing vitriol Rabin's coffin, draped with then filled the Knesset plaza tlw nag-draped coffin in which diate questions about the future by Israel's right wing, which the blue-and-white flag bearing and spilled out into the streets the Star of David, was placed in for miles. 
lay the 73-year-old slain leader. of Middle East peacemaking, called him a traitor and com­Others gently placed flower especially the lsrael-PLO auton­pared him to a Nazi. an army truck Sunday morning Parents brought their chil­A stunned nation tried to and, accompanied by six army dren, carrying them on their
bouquets on stone tiles nearby. omy agreement on the with­
A Jewish settler from New drawal of Israeli troops from come to grips with the killing generals and two police chiefs, shoulders. One man hobbled most West Bank towns and vii-Sunday. "Rabin Murdered, Is-was driven slowly from Tel Aviv along on crutches. 
page 2 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Confessions 
of a draft 


junkie 

As I read the story on Opus Dei in the Scholastic a month ago, I became aware of a sad and disturbing reality. As much as we hoped it would, Notre Dame does not protect us. Opus Dei is not the only cult on 


campus. There is one  Thomas Schlidt  
greater, and, I am a part of it.  Assistant Sports Editor  
For three years now  

I've wanted to scream for help. But who 
would listen? 
The confession must be made. 
I am a son of Mel Kiper, NFL draft expert. I am not alone. Many are like me on campus and in your classes. You sit next to us and talk to us about assignments and parties. 
You are not aware, nor would you want to believe. In April we gather, and the almighty Kiper appears to us on our TVs. We try to emulate him. We try to be him. 
*** 
Will Derrick Mayes be a top five pick? Who do you pick first, Keyshawn Johnson or Mayes? Kiper knows, he knows everything. 
Should Pete Chryplewicz stay or should he go? How does he compare to Marco Battaglia of Rutgers or Rickey Dudley of Ohio State? 
Will Ron Powlus ever be the same? Chronic elbow soreness in his throwing arm and three broken bones, will he ever be able to trust his offensive line? Will NFL general managers be wary of this seemingly cursed quarterback? 
*** 
I am sitting at my kitchen table rummaging through my sheets of stats and bios on 1995 prospective NFL draftees. Pro Football Weekly states that Wendal Chamberlin has a "large lower unit." I chuckle. 
I hear a crash as glass hits the kitchen floor. I see my son, hurriedly trying to clean it up. Why isn't he preparing for the draft? 
"What you doing," I yell at him. 
"Just getting a glass of water," he replies. 
I pound my head on the kitchen table in utter disbelief. The draft is in only a month, how can water be more important than preparing for the draft? 
A week later my wife leaves and takes the kids. I don't mind. The draft is in a month. 
*** 
I sit in a circle with thirteen other men and thirteen women. I look around. They all look normal. Why are they here? 
I look closer. They all weigh 300 pounds. They wear Bears sweatshirts and caps. They scream for beer and sausage. They chant Ditka's name, and toast "Da' Bears." 
I clear my head and stand up. I am here for a reason, and it's time I face it. 
"I am a draftnik," I pronounce. 
They cheer and offer me congratulations and beer. At first I accept, but then they start to ask me about the 1995 Bears' draft. "How about drafting that punter Todd Sauerbrun in the second round," they say. 
"Yeah, great move, he still sucks," I respond. I hate the Bears. I love the Packers. Why am I here? Have I accomplished anything? I should have gone to Charter. *** 
Years have passed. I have found help. My wife and children have returned. The draft has come and gone. I decided to skip it this year and go to my daughter's soccer game instead. I'm glad I did. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Kristi Kolski Mike O'Hara Bill Connolly Production Sports Jana Bruder David Bradley Kira Hutchinson Rafael Gonzalez Lab Tech Graphics Katie Kroener 

Monday, November 6, 1995
The Observer • INSIDE 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Floods, winds and waves bring fishing town down 

CALAUAG, Philippines 
Inside the village hall, a middle-aged woman wept openly as she squatted before a row of four whitewashed coffins. 
"These are my children. They're gone," Marina Regencia said Sunday between sobs, pointing to the coffins of her 10-and 8-year-old daughters, 4­year-old son and month-old boy. A fifth child still was missing. 
The bodies were among 37 fished out of Calauag Bay on Friday and Saturday, after the 140 mph winds of Typhoon Angela lashed the northern Philippines, killing at least 500 people. 
Two hundred others were reported missing after the country's strongest storm in 11 years hit with 12-foot-high waves and flash floods. About 286,000 people remained in evacuation camps in Bicol, the region on the southeastern leg of Luzon, the Philippines' main island, where Angela stormed ashore, said Fortunato de Joras, executive director of the National Disaster Coordinating Council. 
The winds tore off the roofs of many concrete and wooden houses and thatched huts. In one village, a clus­ter of houses was flattened. Schools were destroyed, their galvanized iron roofs and walls peeled open, twist­ed, and crumpled. 
Dole, Clinton not far apart on taxes 
WASHINGTON 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said Sunday he doesn't think President Clinton and congressional Republicans are that far apart on the tax cuts each could support. "He's talking about a $300 per child tax credit, ours is $500 -that's 70-some percent of the whole tax package," Dole, R-Kansas, said on NBC's "Meet the Press." Dole said the 

president also has indicated a willingness to look at capi­tal gains tax reductions. "If you boil it all down, there's not that many differences in my view," he said. But Dole sounded less sure the two sides can reach agreement on welfare reform or reductions in the growth of Medicare spending. The White House, preparing for President Clinton's trip to Israel for the funeral of slain Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, had no immediate comment, said spokeswoman Ginny Terzano. The House and Senate plans to balance the budget in seven years also contain $245 billion in tax cuts. Differences in the two versions still must be worked out between the House and Senate. 
State ballots increase in importance 
WASHINGTON 
Political correctness in California. Secession in Ken­tucky. Affirmative action -by ZIP code, not race -in Minnesota. Not your usual ballot issues, they spice the thin stew of proposals that voters will decide Tuesday. In the four-year election cycle, the November before a presidential contest for most voters means a break from the annual burly-burly of picking officeholders. With few statewide races, it also means fewer citizen initiatives, or referendums, since most of the 24 states that let voters enact laws by putting measures on the ballot limit them to general elections. But constitutional amendments and local measures may be proposed any time. In at least 21 states, those will be most of the questions of public policy put to voters, as well as the usual bond issues, such as Maine's four issues totaling $91.9 million to pay for roads, railways, water and airports, and bridges. And the more local, the quirkier. Some of America's richest peo­ple are fighting what some consider embarrassing riches. 


About 100 of the dead were from the 
fishing and coconut farming town of 
Calauag, a Quezon province town of 
60,000 about 100 miles southeast of 
Manila. 
Like so many other families there, Mrs. 
Regencia did not expect the storm to be 
so deadly -after all, the town is battered 
by about five storms yearly. 
Only three of Mrs. Regencia's sons and 
daughters survived. Her husband, Pablo, 
said there were just too many children to 
save. 
"We held on to a tree in the yard until 
the floods subsided," he said. 
Pilino Romero, 57, thought he could 
save his daughter and three grandchil­
dren by making them climb on top of the 
roof as floodwaters started rising around 
midnight Thursday. 
"My daughter and grandchildren are 
gone. And my house is gone," Romero 
said, shaking his head as he recounted 
how a water reservoir several miles away had burst, sweeping away at least 80 houses down­stream. Romero and his wife survived by clinging to a coconut tree for hours. As the seawater kept rising, people fled their homes along the shores, fisherman Cornelio Orogo said. 
Three face trial in Texas shooting 
LUBBOCK 
Three buddies talked about "how good life would be" without blacks, then drove around with a shotgun and shot three men in a bid to start a race war, the prosecu­tion charges. One of the victims died. The three young men, one described as a skinhead and two Hispanic cousins, go on trial Monday on federal hate crime charges. Prosecutors recently withdrew their intention to ask for the death penalty. Roy Ray Martin, 20; El Trevino Muniga, who turns 21 on Tuesday; and his cousin, Ricky Rivera Muniga, 25, are each accused of shooting one vic­tim on Oct. 16, 1994. The three started the rampage after discussing "how they hate 'niggers' and 'coons,' how they wish they never existed, how good life would be without them and how 'the only good nigger was a dead nigger,"' according to court documents. An indictment said they "discussed ·their mutual hatred of blacks and how they wanted to start a revolution or race war that would involve killing and eliminating blacks." Court records say officers seized a photograph of Adolf Hitler, a swastika and Nazi flag from Martin's home. An indict­ment called him a skinhead. 
Saddam's son's double tells all 
LONDON 
His feet, shod in expensive patent leather, twist in and out while he turns a large onyx ring on his right hand. Latif Yahia cannot shake the tastes and habits of his dou­ble, the man he hates most: Saddam Hussein's eldest son, Odai. Yahia says Odai is a wife-beating, brandy-swigging, looting, conniving murderer. "So am I," says Yahia, who worked five years as a stand-in for Odai before defecting. Except, he quickly corrects himself, he was not a mur­derer. "I am trying to get rid of the way I get angry, the way I behave if I'm provoked, the way I get violent and want to hit someone," he said in a recent interview. "I have changed a lot. I used to hit my wife; I sent her to hospital. I'm no longer that person." Yahia now lives un­der the careful watch of Scotland Yard. Western officials will not comment on his story, but other Iraqi exiles cor­roborate some of his charges about Odai's behavior and there have been recent reports out of Iraq that Odai may be on the outs with his father because of his excesses. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
Monday, Nov. 6 AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 6. 
OHIO 
lindianapoli3 59° I 

"T"""r ...a....a.. ........... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PressurB HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 


Atlanta 56 52 Denver 52 28 New York 57 43 Baltimore 61 43 Los Angeles 85 58 Philadelphia 60 44 Boston 59 43 Miami 85 72 Phoenix 82 57 Chicago 45 39 Minneapolis 44 37 Shorewood. WI 46 36 Dallas 72 55 New Orleans 79 68 St. Louis 57 45 
Tom JohanessenTom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Monday, November 6, 1995 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 

Zahm senior • STUDENT ACADEMIC COUNCil selected as Council finalizes plans Holtz Scholar for 'Women's Week' 
Special to The Observer 
By DONNA MIRANDOLA year's service project will be News Writer The Neighborhood Study HelpMiehanl Wigton, a student 
program where Council mem­

from Neenah. Wise., has been Saint Mary's College Student bers tutor elementary school selm:ted as the University's first Academic Council (SAC) met students in the South Bend Lou lloltz Leadership Scholar. 
last night to discuss events area. Council member Gabriele !\ senior with a double major planned for Women's Week, the Abowd says, "Being an in government and economics, Neighborhood Study Help Pro­Academic Council, tutoring is Wigton is a resident assistant in gram. and the upcoming something we want to do and it Zahm Hall and is involved in a Student Lecture Series. goes along with the goals of the variety of campus and commu­Everyday during Women's Council." 
nity activities, ineluding hall Week, Feb. 5-9, 1996, will fea­This semester's Student 
govcrnnwnt, interhall athletics ture a Brown Bag lunch series Lecture Series, entitled "Round and volunteer work at the 
featuring Saint Mary's College Trip". will be held on Wed.,
South Bend Center for the 
professors speaking on various Nov., 8, at 6:30 in StapletonHomeless and La Casa de subjects keeping with the theme Lounge. The lecture will feature 
Amistad Hispanic eommunity of Women's Week. junior Catherine O'Shea. a vis­
cenwr. 
"We hope that the series will iting student from Saint "Mike is neither flamboyant give students the professor's Patrick's College in Maynooth, nor is lw looking for reeogni­point of view on women's issues Ireland and Saint Mary'stion." says Fr. Thomas King, and issues that affect us all." College junior, Mary Kane, who 
C.S.C. rector of Zahm Hall. "lie says Jennifer Farley, Council spent last year studying at Saint is, indfHHI, a gmwrous, tmas­member. Patrick's College. 
surning leader who believes 
The Keynote Speaker for the that morn can be aceomplished week will be Doctor Jean "The students will talk about 
by giving conerete example 
Kilborne who will be speaking their two different perspectivesthan by speedws or debates or on Women in the Media. The on college life in Ireland and ostentatious discussions." 
date for the Keynote Speaker the United States and on their The Lou Holtz Leadership 
will be Mon .. Feb. 5. The college experiences at Saint 
Scholarship is funded by the 
The Observer/Kimberly Kurgan 
speaker will be co-sponsored Patrick's College and Saint 
Mikll Harper Family Foun­with the Student Activities Mary's College," says Council 
Putting on the Finishing Touches 
dation in honor of Lou Holtz. 
Board. Chairwoman Racquel Mitchell. 
Saint Mary's student Brigid Coleman helps decorate Lemans Hall 
hnad football coach at Notre In keeping with the service The next SAC meeting will be 
for a dance this past Friday. 
Dame. Charles "Mike" Harper commitment of the Council. this held on Sun.. Nov. 12. at 7:45 in 
is chairman of the board and chief executive officer of IUH Nabiseo. 

!\ graduate of Neenah High 


Vietnam to release two jailed Americans 
School. Wigton is the son of 
David and Pattie Wigton. By KATHY WILHELM two years for helping to orga­the official Vietnamese News the aborted 1993 conference in Associated Press nize a conference on democ­Agency said Sunday in a three­Ho Chi Minh City. Tri was sen­racy. sentence report. tenced to seven years in jail HANOI, Vietnam Nguyen Tan Tri of Houston, "The decision was made pro­and Liem to four years, while 
In a rare gesture of goodwill, Texas, and Tran Quang Liem, ceeding from the Vietnamese the Vietnamese participants Vietnam plans to release and whose hometown was not government's goodwill and in were given terms ranging from deport two Vietnamese-Ameri­known, will be expelled before response to the American gov­four to 15 years. 
Use Observer 
classifieds 
cans who have been jailed for midnight Monday (noon EST), ernment's request." it said. The convictions, coming just 
The U.S. Embassy was closed one week after Secretary of Sunday and officials could not State Warren Christopher immediately be reached for opened a U.S. Embassy in comment. Hanoi, were seen as a reaffir­
STUDENTS I FACULTY I ADMINISIRATION 
The unusual releases come mation of the Communist lead­on the eve of the arrival of an ership's determination to resist IIELP ADVANCE Tl IE GERRY ADAMS PEACE INITIATIVE American delegation that will Western pressure for political 
discuss measures to improve liberalization. 
.J<>IN IRISH NORTHERN AID trade and economic coopera­Vietnam's leaders have sig­tion. Some of the proposals naled their eagerness for U.S. ':. : have political conditions. technology and investment but
/A:-. 
Tri. Liem, and seven Viet­insist they have no intention of :: ': •,:: namese were convicted August imitating Russia and East Eu­:·:. 12 of attempting to overthrow rope in moving away from 
. ·. 

. :· : ,•: .. the government by organizing Communism. 
: : ~ : : 
: .. ::. 


• CORRECTION 
Dorr Road north of Notre next to DeBartolo Hall and the Dame Stadium will not be College of Business closed permanently, as re­Administration to form a ported in Friday's editions. semicircular drive around the 
Instead, the road will be stadium. Dorr Road will be repositioned through what is closed periodically during the now the Decio Hall parking expansion work on the stadi­circle, slightly north of its cur­um. rent location. lt will be con· The Observer regrets the er­nected to the existing road ror. 



Regular membership fcc $40.00 Name Address: City ________ State Zip 
Do you want to start an INAC Unit at your school'! YES D NOD 
Mail to: National Membership Irish Northern Aid Committee 363 Seventh Avenue, Suite 405 New York, NY 1000 I Tclc. 212-736-1916 Fax. 212-279-1916 
EDS CHALLENGE TEAMS 




No""that
you've
accepted
the

Ctiallenge.
vvevvant to uvish 


you GOOD 
LUCK .. 
See you in Texas. 
For more information, please mail requests to: EDS Campus Relations, 5400 Legacy Dr., H4-GB-35, Plano, Tx 75024, or visit our homepage at http://www.eds.com. 
EDS is an "'IUUl 0J11Xn1vt1UU emplouer; Ill$~ EDS is a nvi.<leml mart ofEltrtnmi<" IJaJa S)lllkmls t:o.pomJilm 

~--------------------------~------­
p4ge4 The Observer· INDlANA NEWS Monday, November 6, 1995 
Turnout among state's black voters in decline 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Black voter participation is declining across the United States, and Indiana is no exception. In Tuesday's municipal elections, that trend appears likely to continue. 
In 1986, blacks made up about 10.9 percent of the na­tion's electorate and 10.3 per­cent of those who said they voted. By the 1994 midterm election, the gap had widened: Blacks made i.Ip 11.5 percent of the electorate but only 9.5 percent of voters. 
In Indiana, according to the census, turnout among blacks dropped from 34 percent of the voting-age population in 1990 to 25 percent in 1994. The state's overall voter turnout in -1990 was 37 per­cent, and 36 percent in 1994. 
In Indianapolis, two indica­tors show that black voting is lagging. The Indianapolis Star and The Indianapolis News compared census statistics with county turnout figures and found that areas with the largest percentages of blacks often had the lowest voter turnout. 
Also, a recent survey com­missioned by The Star and The News found that blacks were more likely to say they never vote or vote rarely. 
Clarence Gadney, 40, told pollsters from the Indiana Uni­versity Public Opinion Labora­tory at Indiana University-Pur­due University at Indianapolis that he rarely votes. His rea­son is simple. "Well, because when I did (vote), it didn't seem to make a difference." 
But state Rep. William Craw­ford, D-Indianapolis, says blacks need to vote and realize they are "still dealing with group remedies of group wrongs." 
Associated Press 

GARY, Ind. 
Gambling is already a $1 bil­lion industry in Indiana and it will become even bigger with the opening of 11 riverboat casinos starting next month. 
The new competition has churches and fraternal organi­zations worried about the sur­vival of their bingo games, raf­fles and Las Vegas nights. After all, there are just so many en­tertainment dollars to go around, said Donald Coffin, an associate economics professor at Indiana University North­west. 
"Clearly they are competing with each other," he said. "One of the questions is what is the magnitude (of the impact). It would surprise me if it is not fairly substantial." 
Charity gaming drew $400,000 in wagers in the fiscal year that ended June 30, with the money going to fund every­thing from church schools to the operation of fraternal 

University appoints new faculty 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame academic-administrative and faculty appointments for the 1995-96 academic year have been announced by the University's provost, Timothy O'Meara 
Guide 
continued from page 1 
Both ideas are departures from the more recent Guide formats, which asked profes­sors to consent to have their classes assessed for The Guide. It was then up the individual professor to distributed the forms to students. 
In early October, Student Government was force to can­cel its spring 1995 edition of The Guide due to low professor response. Only 30 professors expressed interest in being re­viewed by The Guide by the fil­ing deadline. 
Either option would dramati­cally increase the amount of re­sponses The Guide has previ­ously received, Eifert said. But, he admitted that might trans­late into higher production costs for an already tight bud­get. 
"We may end up needing more people to help us produce it, but we think we can offset that cost with lower printing overhead," he said. 
Eifert said he thinks The Guide can be produced for around $6,000, close to its orig­inally anticipated pricetag. 
Riverboat casinos to open 
Faculty appointed since fall 1994 are: 
• 
Vicki Toumayan, adjunct instructor of romance lan­guages and literatures. 

• 
Akito Tsuboi, guest associ­ate professor of mathematics. 

• 
James C. Turner, professor of history. 

• 
Julianne C. Turner. fellow in the Urban Institue for Com­munity and Educational Initia­tives. 

• 
Peter van Inwagen, John Cardinal O'Hara professor of philosophy. 

• 
Capt. Patrick Walsh, assis­tant professor of philosophy. 

• 
Pei Dong Wang, research assistant professor of educa­tional engineering. 


Layne T. Watson, guest pro­fessor of mathematics. 
• 
Michael S. Weiss, visiting assistant professor of mathe­matics. 

• 
Rev. Dwight Whitt, O.P., as­sociate professor of chemistry and biochemistry. 

• 
John H. Wigger, adjunct assistant professor of Arts and Letters Core Course. 

• 
Edmund Wnuk-Lipinski, fellow in the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 

• 
Deborah J. Yashar, fellow in the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 

• 
Jaraslav Zajicek, assistant professional specialist, chem­istry and biochemistry. 

• 
Rev. Thomas K. Zurcher, C.S.C., adjunct instructor of theology. 


lodges. 

During the same period, the Indiana Lottery Commission reported wagers totalling $600 million. 
The competitors for four Lake County casino boats alone pre­dict joint revenues of more than $1 billion a year. Economists expect that to hurt charitable organizations in northwest In­diana that rely on gaming to raise money. 
"I think the (Donald) Trumps will out-compete the church­es." said James Jennings, an economics professor at Purdue University Calumet. 
"Grandma may still go to the church and grandpa to the Le­gion, (but) the younger folks may go to the boats.~· 
Trump is developing one of two riverboats to be based in Gary. 
"I would be extraordinarily surprised if there is not some effect," Coffin agreed. "With casino gambling, you have the opportunity to win more in the sense you can bet more, play longer and there are bigger jackpots." 
Diane Balk, an Indiana Lot­tery spokeswoman, said the state also is concerned about the casino jJOats. 
Of the $600 million wagered on Hoosier Lottery games, $183 million went to the state gen­eral fund and to the Build Indi­ana fund for capital projects such' as road improvements. 




'ParUcipanls mud be a n'D/Smc sluclenl. OnliJ ilal Mnks IAiill be acceplecl (cl1a£11ings, design, pholt11Jraph1J, painlings) llliih o maximum si~e r1i 3'x3'. 
Ihe exhi.il will 6e 1h11wn in lhe St~rin Rt~Dm al fa1t~rlune Sludenl Cenler n,uem6er 13-11. 
'Purchase pri~es, darling al $200, lllilt be alf!arded. 
AppUcDiiDns ll11 lli1Dilo61R nDifl in 
lhe Sludenl AcUuilies 01/ict 315lll1orlune. 
Splcitd 1hanlts 111 lhe AlutMi Au11eiali111f, llr• Snil1 mut~um.anti #111 Sluti1nl Adiuilits OUicl f11r lh1ir UMii11n1 111 llr1 purchate pr~1 awartiJ. 




Blizzard of Buckslll 
Win Loll ol 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. Mbshington, Cltict~go,IL 60602 For • Free 32-Pt~re Color Cllllllor ToU-Fne (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 lnJ~met Calllloglll http: 1/wwrw.Uiptd.comlstJ[HCk  $$ Ca1h $$ Monday, November 6, 1995 at 7:30pm, Carrol Auditorium in Madeleva Hall. $2 at the door  S lU DEN 1 ACTIVITIES 8 O·A R·D SA ~ll 1,\.ld\Y S ~..ot.eG(  
Spring Break 1996 TRAVEL FREE!! Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas Panama City. Daytona. Padre ** Great low, low prices ** Free Trip on only 15 sales Call for a FREE + information packet ! ~ Sun Splash Tours u 1-800-426-7710  





-------------------------------------------------------------~--------------~ 
Monday, November 6, 1995 The Observer • ASSASSINATION OF RABIN page 5 
Israel's fabled secret service failed to protect Rabin 
By NICOLAS TATRO 
Assodatcd Press 
.IEHUSALEM 

I low could it happen? 
No country puts more em­phasis on security than Israel. The Shin Bet seerct service built an Pnviabln reputation for prolflc:ting its loaders and pre­venting terrorist attacks. 
Security broke down, how­lwnr, wlwn bodyguards appar­ently mistook a young law stu­dent for a VII' drivnr and let him get dose enough to shoot Prime Minister Yitzhak Habin with a 'Jrnm Barntta. Questions am also bning asknd about why Hahin was not wearing a bullet­proof vest. 
It's not as if there wasn't ampln warning that an attack 
lJ niversity of Notre Dame lntentational Study l'rognun in 

c 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1996 -97 Academic Ycar 

"Phonclines, Airlines and Deadlines -Getting You To Angers And Uack" With Professor I•aul McDowell 
SYRIA 
AP might come from Israel's reli­gious right-wing. The suspect had Jinks to right-wing extrem­ists. 
In recent weeks. angry debate over the future of the West Bank spilled into the streets 
TUESDAY NOVEMUER 7, 1995 7:00 11.M. ROOM 117 O'SIIAUGIINESSY 

Newcon•t•rs ure ulways welcome! Hl'luruin~-: sludt•nls will ht• 1111 lmml to answer IJUCslions 
Give yourself a gift for Christmas... 
spend 5 days at St. Agatha's Church in Chicago 
Dec. 17th -21st 
• 5 days of service in inner city 

• opportunity to work-hands on-in parish outreach ministry to needy families and children 
• room and board provided on site 
• limited space available -apply early! 
Re~istration Deadline: November 17 available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Information sessions: November 15: 6:30 -7:00 PM November 16: 6:30 -7:00 PM at Center for Social Concerns 
with right-wingers heckling 
Rabin at public appearances, 
calling him a "murderer," 
"Nazi" and "traitor." 
!lis Cabinet ministers were also under threat, and extra bodyguards and armored cars were deployed. Housing Minis­ter Binyamin Eliezer was trapped in an angry crowd, Ed­ucation Minister Shulamit Aloni was punched in the stomach and Environment Minister Yossi Sarid's car was forced off a highway. 
Yossi Melman, an author and expert on intelligence, said se­curity was "a total failure be­cause the handwriting has been on the wall for the past month." 
One reason was that few Is­raelis really believed that an Is­raeli would kill an Israeli. 
Gideon Ezrach, former deputy head of the Shin Bet, said he thought that when Rabin was in the Arab West Bank town of Nablus, his bodyguards were "more psychologically alert" than they were in Tel Aviv. 
"I also think that we all did not believe that such a thing could happen," said Ezrach. 
The security instead focused on Palestinian militants, espe­cially Islamic extremists who had threatened to get even for Rabin's reported decision to or­der the recent execution of the Islamic Jihad leader Fathi Shakaki in Malta. 
"Israeli security underesti­mated the dangers of the Jew­ish right and instead focused on Palestinian terror," said Ziad Abu Ziad, a Palestinian peace negotiator. "Jp.wish fanaticism and terrorism is not less dan­gerous than Palestinian." 
An official who spoke on con­dition of anonymity said Habin refused to wear a bulletproof vest. Melman said the Shin Bet should have insisted that he wear one and that the shots might not have been fatal if he had. 
But Ehud Sprinzak, a profes­sor of political science at He­brew University, said Rabin would have refused to wear a vest anyway. 
"We are talking about a very old soldier who went through all kinds of dangers in his life. He did not consider an assassi­nation a serious danger." said Sprinzak. 
Israel experts said the 25­year-old law student who con­fessed to the assassination, Vi­gal Amir. fit almost exactly the Shin Bet's profile for an at­tacker -a fringe activist with 
Delivery 273-3890 Lunch and Regular Hours 

$4 All You Can EatLrmchButfet 11:()().1:30 
--,
thepiwa, salad, pasta, and ~:.au, wichesyou want! 
THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVAT 

• 
288-3320 


273-3890 
HSTILL THE BEST" 

World leaders: Peace process should forge forward 
By DIRK BEVERIDGE 
Associated Press 

LONDON 
The most fitting tribute to Yitzhak Rabin would be to continue his quest for pettce in the Middle East, world leaders said Sunday as they mourned the slain Israeli prime minis· ter. 
Habin, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1994 for mak­ing peace with Palestinians, was shot to death Saturday night by a right-wing Israeli after speaking at a peace rally in Tel Aviv. 
"Yitzhak Rabin himself al· ways emphasized that the op­ponents of the peace process should never be allowed to stop the process with violence, no matter how loathsome," said S~edish Prime Minister Ingvar Carlsson. "In our dejection,. this is the message we must carry with us." 
Pope John Paul II expressed hope that "this serious and sad event will not Irreparably disturb the search for peace in the Middle East, but on the contrary will be a new stimu­lus." The pope ended his reg­ular Sunday remarks from his window overlooking St. Peter's Square with the words: "Peace, Shalom." 
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak mourned Habin as man who fell from "treacher· ous bullets at the hands of extremists who are enemies of peace." 
But hard-line opponents of 
no record of violent behavior. 
"The concern was not that an underground right-wing group would plan a murder and send killers against Habin and other Cabinet ministers." wrote Zeev Schiff, a military affairs writer for the daily Haaretz newspa­per. 
"The most likely scenario spoke of a man who belonged to no particular group, who had no record with authorities, someone who was aroused by the incitement of those present­ing the prime minister as a trai­tor." 
According to fellow students at Bar-IIan University, Amir or­ganized weekend trips to the militant Jewish settlement in 
Hours: 'Till 1 AM Sun­Thurs 'Till2 AM Fri and Sat Lunch 11-2 
Rabin called his death by gun­Ore a fitting end for the old Is­raeli war hero. The Libyan government news agency Jana described Rabin as a terrorist whose "hands were covered in the blood of the martyrs." 
Iranian President Hashemi Rafsanjani called the assassination "God's warning to humanity." 
"According to a-principle of belief, we believe that whoev­er unsheathes the sword of tyranny will be killed by the same sword," Rafsanjani said, according to Iranian radio. 
Condolences flooded into Is­rael from all parts of the world. from presidents and monarchs alike. 
Habin "was aware of the danger to his life," said Ger­man Chancellor Helmut Kohl. "But for him it was important that every chance was used to finally bring pence for the people of the region that was affected by so much suffer­ing." 
President Julio Maria San­guinetti of Uruguay decreed two days of national mourning for Rabin, calling him "a great statesman, a courageous mili­tary man and a dedicated democrat." 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin, recovering from heart troubles in a Moscow hospital, called the assassination: "an attempt to rip apart the move­ment toward peace in the Mid­dle East, and push the Middle East into an abyss of blood and suffering." 
the West Bank city of Hebron and was seen at several recent right-wing protests. 
Among the books found in his room was "Day of the Jackal," a novel about the attempted as­sassination of French President Charles de Gaulle, and a book about Baruch Goldstein, the Jewish settler who killed 29 Muslim worshipers in Hebron in February 1994. 
The Shin Bet had appealed to major political parties in recent weeks to curb the rhetoric of incitement and tried to get Ha­bin to eut down on public visits. But Rabin, a war hero with bat­tle wounds. pressed ahead. 
"Those responsible for secu­rity tried to limit his move­ments. He told them the answer was not bodyguards but an end to the incitement that causes violence in every sphere," said Schiff. 
CANCUN·SOUTH PADR~ ISlAND
+ Early booking nvings until Nov. 15, 1995
+Guarntead Loweat Prlco
+ Book urly for the lownt prict & bast proptrtiu 


The Freshman Class Council 
will have Office Hours every Monday and Thursday from 3-S pm in the Student Government Office on the 2nd Floor of LaFortune. 

r""'"-~-........----~ 
~~------~~~ 

----------------~---~ ~------~-~-~------------.,..----------­
page 6 The Observer • YUGOSLAVIA NEWS Monday, November 6, 1995 

The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Winter is on its way 

Icicles begin to form at Stonehenge after a weekend where tem­peratures hovered around 30 degrees. 
Clinton stands behind sending troops to Bosnia 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton used a mag­azine essay to make his case for sending U.S. troops to enforce a possible peace agreement in 
Bosnia, say­ing the United States has an "urgent 
stake"  in  
ending  the  
war.  

"If peace is 

a c h i e v e d . Clinton NATO must help secure it-and as NATO's leader, America must take part," Clinton wrote in a guest essay in this week's Newsweek. 
The leaders of Bosnia. Croatia and Serbia arrived in Dayton, Ohio, last week to begin negoti­ations. Clinton is trying to build congressional support for his plans to send ground troops to Bosnia if "a solid peace agree­ment" is reached. 
"Peace in Bosnia matters to America -to our values and interests," Clinton wrote. "We have an urgent stake in stoping the slaughter, preventing the war from spreading, and build­ing a Europe at peace." 

Clinton has said he might commit up to 25,000 U.S. troops. 
But congressional Republi­cans have expressed worries that the troops might become targets or be drawn into a larg­er war if the peace doesn't hold. 
Last week, the House passed a nonbinding resolution declar­ing that there should be no pre­sumption that U.S. troops would serve as part of a NATO peace­keeping force. 
Clinton has said he would seek congressional support be­fore sending any troops, al­though the administration maintains that approval from Congress is not required. 
In his essay, Clinton said if any troops were sent, he would insist on NATO command and control of the operation. "Our troops will take their orders from the American general who commands NATO forces -no one else," he said. 
"They will have clear rules of engagement, a carefully defined mission and a exit strategy," he said. 



LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books! 

Grand Opening Sale Nov. 4-11 
Featuring books by: John Paul II, von Balthasar, Congar, De 
.fl~i~~~~ Lubac, Aquinas, Maritain, Hauerwas, N.T. Wright, Mother Teresa, C.S. Lewis, Newman, Chesterton, Bonhoeffer and many more! Also: Fathers of the Church, Vatican II documents, encyclicals, Bibles and scripture study, prayer, lives of the saints. 

We can special order any book you need! 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 237 N. Michigan St., downtown South Bend (at the corner of Michigan and LaSalle). 287-0349 Open 10-5 Tues-Fri; 10-4 Saturday 
Milosevic condemns peace accord 
By SLOBODAN LEKIC 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio 
Serbia's President Slobodan Milosevic, the main power bro­ker in the former Yugoslavia, has reacted angrily to a pro­posed Bosnian peace accord, believing he was misled by the peace conference's U.S. orga­nizers about what its contents would be, officials close to the talks said Sunday. 
The political groundwork for the current talks was laid over the past several months by Richard Holbrooke, the U.S. assistant secretary of state who conducted a series of shuttle missions to the Balkans. 
On the basis of discussions held during those missions and subsequent" accords on Bosnia's constitutional principles and territorial division. mediators have come up with a draft agreement to end the war and establish a republic consisting of two ethnic entities. Parts of that document were circulated to the delegations Thursday. 
"Milosevic is upset because he thinks the Americans brought him to Dayton on false pretenses," said an official familiar with the Serbian lead­er's reaction. "They want him to make concessions that were not mentioned during Hoi­brooke's talks with him" in Serbia. 
The official spoke on condi­tion that he not be identified, because of strict secrecy rules clamped on the proceedings by the organizers. 
Mediators at the peace talks. which formally opened Wednesday, are reportedly zeroing in on Milosevic, de­manding that he ditch Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic and military commander Gen. Ratko Mladic, formally recog­nize Bosnia and Croatia, and assure human rights for ethnic minorities in Serbia, said an­other official involved with the 
talks. 

These are difficult conces­sions for Milosevic to make. Branded by the Bush adminis­tration as the chief instigator of the Bosnian war. Milosevic. has gradually reversed policy and now seems committed to find­ing a negotiated solution to the conflict that has killed an esti­mated 200,000 people. 
Despite having been autho­rized by the Bosnian Serbs to negotiate and conclude a pos­sible agreement on their behalf. Milosevic f~ces strong opposi­tion in Serbia if he is seen to be selling them out. 
In the Bosnian Serb capital of Pale, Information Minister Miroslav Toholj already has denounced reports that Karadzic could be replaced, saying, "The Serbian people ... will never allow any foreign power to impose a puppet gov­ernment." 
And Milosevic faces even more worrying consequences if he antagonizes the powerful Yugoslav army, which has close ties with the Bosnian Serb mili­tary and particularly the charismatic Gen. Mladic. 
Serbian negotiators "are sticking to what was agreed during Holbrooke's five mis­sions to the former Yu­goslavia," emphasized a report Sunday by Serbia's state-owned Tanjug news agency. 
The agency. which often con­veys official government posi­tions, said the Serb delegation would refuse to accept any new proposals in the draft agree­ment submitted to the warring parties that are "contrary to the spirit" of earlier deals. 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 

Call234-0363 
(24 hours) 

SOUTH BEND 

417 N. St. louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 






SUMMER STUDY Washington, DC 

GRADUATE • UNDERGRADUATE STUDY ABROAD • HIGH SCHOOL PROGRAMS 
For information call (202) 994-6360, Fax (202) 994-9133 or write us at 2121 Eye St., NW • Washington, DC 20052 for our Summer Sessions Announcement E-mail: sumprogs@gwis2 .eire. gwu. ed u 
G W is an equal opportuni1y institution. 

APll/95 


175TH ANNIVERSARY 1821-1996 


L___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ ----· 
--~-----~----------~~-~-~-----­
-------------~ ~-~ 
Monday, November 6, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Military grapples with charges of harassment 
By JOHN DIAMOND 
Associar~d Press 
WASIIINGTON 
ller F-16 score sheet said one thing: Maj. Jacquelyn S. Parker qualified for the next level of combat lighter training. llnr male commanders said an­other. 
Time after time, word came down to Parker from the high­er-ups: Go back and do it over again. 
"They'd say, 'You're just a lit­tle short of where you need to be,' " Parker recalled of her supervisors at the New York Air National Guard's 174th Fighter Wing in Syracuse -known as "The Hoys from Syracuse." 
"I'd say, 'What is it?' And they'd say, 'Do you want us to lower our standards?' It went on like this for eight months," Parker said in an interview. 
Less than six months after Parker's bid for front-line duty, she now works for a software eompany in Chicago, victim of what some eall a persistent at­mosphere of gender bias and sexual harassment in the mili­tary. 
As the memory of Tailhook fades, the military is coping with a new problem: the view among some in the military that the effort to eradicate sexual harassment is pushing women into places where they don't belong, Increasingly, it seems that as Jackie Parker and other women complain that they face higher hurdles than male coun­terparts, others in the military charge that the Pentagon is lowering its standards to meet a feminist agenda. 
The Pentagon's top personnel official, Undersecretary of De­fense Edwin Dorn, rejects the favoritism charge. 
"Nobody's going to put some­body in a $50 million airplane if he or she is not ready to handle it," Dorn said. "No commander is going to risk· his or her career or the lives of the people in their unit merely to satisfy some symbolic goal." 
As to whether well-qualified women will be promoted over less qualified men, "the answer is yes," Dorn said. 
Eventually, getting women into higher-ranking positions will ease rather than increase tension between the genders, Dorn predicted. 

'What are !JOU doing this Christmas? 
Consider signing up for Thea 365C ''The Church .and Social Action," colloquially known as ''Urban Plunge" 
• 
.as hour e-.:perience in an inner city of your choice 

• 
During the week of Januuy 3-11 (dates ue chosen by the host site) 

• 
BE WITH, LISTEN and EXPERIENCE the stories of people who live in poverty 

• 
T~lk with people who ue homeless 

• 
EXPERIENCE soup kitchens, shelle"' and welfare agencies 

• 
Meet people who are trying to make life better for people who live in poverty 


REGISTRATION DEADLINE: Nov. 10,1995 
ORIENT A TION: Nov. 19, 1995 4-6PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
FOLLOW-UP MEETING: Jan. 21, 1996 6:30 -10:00 PM 
'Jl~gistration auailahla at th£ C~ntar for Social Con<A>rns, Campus .Ministl"}j and <]{all 'Jl~ps -'ll~ 
Campus .Minlstl"}j and ~ultkulturai.JlHain 119 ~....;lians -s..MC 
"Some of our soldiers and sailors are coming from back­grounds that have more than a hint of misogyny," Dorn said in an interview. "They have to learn to deal with women as equals, not as sex objects, not as inferiors." He said that with training "it doesn't take the av­erage soldier a long time to make that adjustment." 
The New York Air National Guard made clear where it stands last week when Maj. Gen. John H. Fenimore, adju­tant general of New York, re­moved Parker's sup"erior from command, ordered others in the 174th disciplined, and in­vited Parker to return to F-16 fighter training. 
While Parker ponders the of­fer, others like her live in a mil­itary where the issue between men and women goes beyond gender and ego. As the per­centage of women in the shrinking military increases, competition for plum jobs, such as fighter pilot, becomes more keen. 
Women make up 12.5 percent of the military today, up from 
10.5 percent two years ago. 
"As the services have come down in size, as missions have 
Harassment in the military 
Women in the military Sexual harassment complaints
1993 1995 
1 9 9 4 
59,785 enlisted 58,133 enlisted 512filed
ARMY Bll 
11 ,305 officers 10,934 officers 146 s11bstantiated 
45,383 44,347 200 Ill!.
NAVY 
8,308 7,902 165 
7,368 7,384 90 1111
MARINES 
615 655 37 
AUf" 54,119 52,182 463 1m! FORCE 12,140 12,129 332 
T 0 T A L T 0 T A L T 0 T A L 
1993.MAK~QP l29S.MAK~UP COMPLAINTS 
1,545,417 men 11343,127 men 1,265.flied 
~.,.
8 IP.Jii "'-t. I L-tii 
199,023 women 193,666 women 680 substantiated 
Source: Departmenl of Delense 
highly publicized cases as the death of Navy Lt. Kara Ilult­green and the scuttled promo­tion of Adm. Stanley Arthur. 
-Hultgreen died in an abort­ed carrier landing last year after one of the engines on her F-14 malfunctioned. The Navy said she was a fully qualified fighter pilot. But a rumor cam­paign. waged by anonymous callers to talk radio programs, alleged that she had gained her wings through favorable treat­ment. 
-Many, including women, reacted with chagrin when the Navy pulled Arthur's promotion to Pacific commander last year after a senator questioned his performance overseeing a sex­ual harassment investigation. 
\ l ) ul ii \.i illi'~----1) { ) ll 




littleGtrl 

~~.114«4 

Saint trlary 8 Coffege Sisters ofNefertiti 
presents: 

\VHlMSlCAL \VOROS 
& 



SVLTRY SOVNDS 

Directed by Reginald Bain 
Poetry 

Wednesday, November 15 Thursday, November 16 Friday, November 17 Saturday, November 18 Sunday, November 19 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Euening
Sp.m. Sp.m. Sp.m. Sp.m. 2:30p.m. 

Reserved Seats $8 
Sludcnl and senior cilizen discounts arc available for all perfonnances. Tickets arc available allhe door or in advance at the Lafortune Studenl Cenler Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders call631-8128 
AP/Tmcie Tso 
Critics charged that the popular and highly decorated combat pilot had been the victim of a climate of political correctness. 
-Gen. Charles Krulak. the newly named Marine Corps Commandant, ruffled feathers in August when he said he op­posed placing women in ground combat "because I don't think they can do it." 
-And in another high-profile case, the highest-ranking Navy officer to face court-martial since World War II was acquit­ted of sexual harassment last week. The accused, Capt. Ev­erett L. Greene, said two sub­ordinates had mistaken friendly and supportive cards and phone calls as improper ad­vances. 
These and other cases came after the 1991 Tailhook scan­dal, when dozens of women complained they were groped and fondled at an alcohol­soaked Las Vegas convention of naval aviators. 
Since then, the military lead­ership worked to improve pro­cessing of sexual harassment complaints. seeking to rid the system of the retaliation that had prevented many victims from coming forward. 
Defense Department statistics show a steady increase both in the number of harassment complaints and in the propor­tion of those complaints that are substantiated. But officials say the increase reflects greater awareness of the issue and new, more stringent rules. 
And a recent report to De­fense Secretary William Perry and research conducted by the Navy indicate a decline in some of the worst harassment cases -those involving physical con­tact, intimidation and requests for sexual favors. 

Paris $185 London $215 San Jose $239 Madrid $269 TokVD $359 Taipei $425 
fM<J!~'t~trtc"bb':"~~~~~~~"':3 ~ 
r.fes subject to change and/or availability. 
CMI lodly for olhot -ltlwldo do•IIINIIIonL 

[ii.il!ifijllTravel~ 
CIEE, CoW>CU oo lntemalloool Educatlooal Exchonge 

1-800-2-COUNC/1. 
fi-BOD-226-86241 
Calltodav lor af.!IH 
Student rravelsmagazinel 

changed, there's a lot of change going on and change often tends to be threatening,'' said former Navy Capt. Carolyn Prevatte, who serves on the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services," a group that advises the Pen-. tagon on gender issues. 
Adding to the problem is lin-· gering resentment from such 
~--------------~ 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 6, 1995 
• POLAND 





Poles hold elections, Walesa challenged 
By ANDRZEJ SlYLINSKI 
Associated Press 
WARSAW 
President Lech Walesa faced a tough challenge Sunday from a polished ex-Communist as Poles voted in their second presidential elections since top­pling the Communists six years ago. 
Though 17 names were un 
closed. 
Walesa, 52, voted in his hometown of Gdansk, and later received a bottle of champagne from supporters at the shipyard where the East bloc's first free trade union movement was forged under his leadership. 
A devout Catholic, Walesa is backed by the Solidarity trade union and the Roman Catholic church. Many priests issued 



Shevardnadze may win presidency 
By CHRIS BIRD 
Associated Press 
TBILISI 

Pulling up to a voting station in his bulletproof Mercedes, Georgian leader Eduard She­vardnadze cast his ballot Sun­day to pick a new president and parliament in an election he hoped to win. 
Flashing a confident smile at applauding bystanders, She­vardnadze voted at a teachers' college in Tbilisi's Vake district. 
About 3.2 million Georgians were eligible to vote in Sun­day's elections, which will also decide the make-up of a new, 235-seat parliament. Preliminary results are ex­pected early Monday. 
Five candidates competed for the presidency, and nearly 3,000 were running for par­liament. Elections in 10 of Georgia's 85 electoral districts have been postponed in­definitely because they are in the secessionist regions of Abkhazia and South Ossetia 
Turnout by midafternoon was a lackluster 45.05 percent ­and 50 percent turnout was needed for the vote to be valid. 
Shevardnadze, the 67-year­old former Soviet foreign minis­ter, campaigned on a platform that he is the only guarantor of Georgia's recent -and still fragile-stability. 


~-..;:: 
""~ 
~ 
i 
I 
A 
~.J /; 


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 6, 1995 
page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OffiCE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OI'FICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
john Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
EJi,.abot h Rrgan jostph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyb Advenising Manager ........................... John Poner Viewpoint Editor ..................Mirhad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Miko Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krisra Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Sajnt Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspapor publishod by tho studonts of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saini Maty's College. It does not n<eossarily refloC! 1he policies of the administra­lion of dth<r institution. Tho no:ws is r<ported as accurately and objectively as possiblo. Unsignod edi­torlat~ n~pr~M:nt th~ op\nion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viowpnint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commcmarics, lrncrs and Inside Columns presenr the views of rhe authors, and not necessarily those of Tho Obsorv<r. Viowpoim spaco is availablo to all members of tho Notre Dame/Saint Maty's com­munity and IU all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/S,lint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Vespers with Theodore Hesburgh 
Back in the 60s, when the mass was in Latin, Notre Dame was an all male school and God was not yet dead, I came to know the HevBrend Theodore 1-Iesburgh, C.S.C. 
At the time, I was a junior living in Dillon Hall with my roommate, Mike Green. It was winter. In South Bend that means early dark, bitter cold and numbing bore­dom. Mike and I had just opened our first semester grade reports and were happily pounding each other on the back for sur­viving ynt another stretch of academic pur­pink slip glut was a shock that brought panic to the tender hearts of the first year Domers. 
About 2:30 in the morning Mike and I decided to help the distraught young'uns by easing their anxiety. We would call them into our room and promise to go to the highest authority to correct the injus­tice done them. To demonstrate our sin­cerity, we would get on our phone (one of only six in Dillon at the time) and call Father Hesburgh to inform him that some­
gatory. In fact, we had both done rather well. 
Being Notre Dame men, the bright product of fifte1~n years of Catholic education, we decided to celnbrate by taking our HOTC month­ly stipmul money an ille­gally buying some booze. And, being Notrn Dame men, the bright product of liftnen years of nduca­tion. we had no idea what WfJ were doing. 
Let me just summarize tlw next several hours as 7-Up, rye whiskey, cashews and some kind of sticky sweet fruit punch. To this day, I have never again drank, sipped, even tasted 
'Let me just summa­
rize the next several hours as 7 -Up, rye whiskey, cashews and some kind of sticky sweet fruit punch. To this day, I have never again drank, sipped, even tasted whiskey of any sort. And the memory of spending hours working hits of cashews free from our throw rug is still vivid.' 

thing was rotten in Denmark and the Freshman Studies Department. 
The freshmen were wildly appreciative. The vision of calling their parents to tell them about the pink slips made them des­perate for a way out. A group of six gathered in our room while I dialed Father Hesburgh's room in Corby Hall. 
Father Hesburgh was the President of the University of Notre Dame du lac and known Ted the Head by one and all. He was the most visible and involved member of the 
whiskey of any sort. And the memory of spending hours working bits of cashews free from our throw rug is still vivid. 
Throughout our revelry I had been for­mulating a plan. I intended to balance my sin of drunknnness with a cardinal act of 
mnr<y 
Dillon llall was a stay hall. That means it ineluded all classes, freshman through senior, among it inhabitants. The fresh­mnn were wailing and gnashing their teeth ovtJr a snow storm of pink slips (notices of acadnmic dnficiency) for the year long freshman math course. Now, this hap­pened every year and every year most would correct their deficiency and prosper by ytmr end. But every year that mid-year Catholic clergy in the United States, which meant he was forever in Washington, D.C., our New York, or Rome or Walla-Walla, fighting for some cause or injecting a Christian ethic in a major corporate deci­sion. 
Students pointed at jets flying over the campus and said, "There goes Ted the Head." And everyone believed that the dif­ference between God and Ted the Head was that God was everywhere and Ted the Head was everywhere but Notre Dame. 
It was a no brainer. 

I would dial Ted the Head's room after showing the gullible freshmen the phone number in the campus phone book, let it ring se'veral times, hang up and send the tots to bed with promises to continue to try until I reached Ted. I never intended to actually contact Father 1-Iesburgh. I never expected him to be at Notre Dame. 
Two rings into my plan and I was in trou­ble. A very familiar voice answered, unnecessarily identifying himself as "Father 1-Iesburgh." My windpipe snapped shut and I managed only a soft "gurk." Ted asked, "Who's calling?" ... 
From my first Baltimore Catechism with its spotty milk bottle through a semester at St. Thomas Aquinas with Father/Or. Burtchaell, I had been preparing for this moment of moral decision. No metaphysi­cal argument about situation ethics would get me out of this one. Drunk or sober, in my heart and soul, I knew that if you lied to Ted the Head you were going straight to the hottest spot in hell. 
"Father, my name is John McGrath. I'm a junior and... " I went through the whole story, embarrassed by the open look of awe from the freshmen and fearful of the storm to come. 
There was no storm. Father Hesburgh was kind and caring. He explained what the pink slippers needed to do and wished them well. He asked about myself and my family and if I were going to mass and if I said the Rosary. It was the gentle lesson of a pastor and a good man. After a long, long talk I thanked Father Hesburgh. Ted the Head said, "God bless you, John," and we hung up. 
Mike and I shooed the now-happy, back­slapping freshmen out of the room. The next day we blunted our hangovers with glass upon glass of south dining hall tomato juice and set about freeing the cashews. In time, the freshmen wised up and our brief stint as power brokers ended. Normalcy returned. 
The years have passed and there is something I forgot to say to Ted the Head that I would like to say now. 
God bless you, Father 1-Iesburgh. I'm glad you were at Notre Dame-especially that one time. 
JOHN MARTIN MCGRATH 
ND'69 
Darwinism, patent law andNDLaw 
The issue of Science maga­zine which has just reached campus is its annual overview of the human genome project. The issue gives graphic and textual emphasis to the impor­tance of "model systems" in understanding the human genome. These systems include the genomes of the mouse and of an invertebrate worm, Caenorhabditis elegans. Perhaps local critics of the the­ory of evolution would want to challenge the significance of such research or recommend to their friends in Congress that funding for it be cut. Perhaps not. 
But if those faculty in the Notre Dame Law School, the Center for the Philosophy of Religion, and the Maritain Center, as well as one graduate student in the Physics Department, who arranged to put Darwin on trial at Notre Dame want the rest of us to think they know what they're doing, I'm sure they won't miss the chance to tell us what they think about the relation of this aspect of the human genome project to Darwin's intellectual legacy. 
Since patent law isn't a prior­ity at the otherwise excellent Notre Dame School of Law per­haps none of those who put Darwin on trial knows anything at all about molecular biology. If that's the case, the communi­ty can draw its own conclu­sions. 
EDWARD MANIER 
Professor of Philosophy, Fellow of the 
Reilly Center for Science, Technology and 
Values. 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• 000NESBURY 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The illusion that times 
that were are better than those that are, has probably pervaded all ages." 
-Horace Greeley 


VIEWPOINT 

page 10 
• lETTERS TO THE Eom.m 
Endangered Species Act 

Merits outweigh costs 
S
omewhere in the hills of southeastern Oklahoma, an American buying bee­tle comes upon the carcass of a field mouse. After chasing away any chal­lengers for his prize, the beetle crawls beneath the mouse and begins to dig, adjusting the mouse's position as it sinks slowly beneath the loosened dirt. When his meal is completely buried, the beetle will secrete a compound that begins to decompose the mouse, making it suit­able for beetle dining, and, incidentally, enriching the surrounding soil and may, in turn, provide a meal for another field mouse. Though seemingly just another of nature's countless mini-dramas. the life of the beetle is illustrative of the important role that plants and animals play in all our lives. The American burying beetle is just one of millions of tiny species that perform the mundane tasks such as decomposition and nutri­ent recycling, without which there would be virtually no life on earth. They are, according to biologist E.O. Wilson, "the little things that run the world." 
Scientists call the many thankless jobs performed by the beetle and its inverte­brate colleagues "ecosystem services." Though perhaps the most dramatic, ecosystem services are only one exam­ple of the many benefits that people derive from the wild's diversity of species. Wild species make significant contributions daily to human health. agriculture, and to the national econo­my. 
In May of 1991, Elaine Forsman, a Maryland business owner and mother. was diagnosed with ovarian cancer. Her doctors made a grim prognosis, telling Elaine's family that she had six months to live. Traditional chemotherapy treat­ments proved ineffective, and her condi­tion deteriorated. In desperation, Elaine enrolled in a program using a new can­cer-fighting drug called taxol. Scientists derived taxol from the bark of the Pacific yew, a tree that Northwest log­gers, unaware of its value, routinely destroyed as a "trash tree." Elaine, with the help of taxol, fought off her cancer, and today she is leading a healthy, active life. 

F
Researchers are just beginning to realize the potential of wildlife-based medicines, yet, already over 40 percent of prescription drugs contain at least one compound derived from a plant or animal. Scientists are making new dis­coveries seemingly every day. The Houston toad, for example, produces alkaloids that may someday be used to prevent heart attacks, and sockeye salmon contain fatty acids that reduce high blood pressure and may provide a treatment for arthritis. armers know the benefits to agricul­ture of species diversity. In the 1970s, a leaf blight decimated U.S. corn crops, costing up to $1 billion. Farmers averted the crisis by crossbreeding domestic corn with a wild variety from Mexico. In 1992, scientists protected the U.S. wheat crop from potentially devastating leaf rust by introducing a wild species of wheat from Brazil. Texas wild-rice offer scientists a similar opportunity for crossbreeding should disease strike the U.S. rice crop. 
Monday, November 6, 1995 

Experts estimate that an increase in overall yields of just one percent due to heightened disease or insect resistance is worth $150-200 million to U.S. farm­ers. 
The Endangered Species Act, our country's last line of defense against species extinction, extends its protection to imperiled plants and animals of all kinds because Congress in 1973 recog­nized the tremendous importance of wild species. large and small, to our own well-being. On the same endangered and threatened species list with the majestic bald eagle and grizzly bear, one finds the American burying beetle, the Houston toad, the sockeye, and even Texas wild-rice. The Pacific yew tree, before scientists discovered its medicinal value, declined to such an extent that conservationists petitioned the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service tQ protect it under the ESA. The Act's protection helps insure that these species, and countless others whose virtues have not yet been discovered, will not disappear before we have a chance to appreciate their value. 
T
Today, many in Congress take a differ­ent view. Pushed by developers. indus­try groups, and property right zealots, members of both Houses are introducing legislation that. under the guise of reform, will destroy the ESA's power to conserve species. Critics of the Act, rail­ing at the economic costs of species con­servation and condemning the protec­tion of "insignificant" weeds, toads, and bugs, fail to consider to tangible and intangible benefits the wild species bring to all our lives. hey would do well to learn the lesson of the American burying beetle. It may not ·appear in a wildlife calendar, provide a cancer cure, or increase agri­cultural production. but, if allowed by humankind, the beetle will continue qui­etly running the world. 
WILLIAM EICHBAUM 
Vice President 
World Wildlife Fund 

The error of Anti-Federalist opposition to Big Government 
During the time I lived in Britain years ago, I acquired a driving license. It is an interesting docu­ment, because although it was issued from an office in Britain, it is in fact a European Community driving license, valid in every nation in the EC. Had my family moved to France, I could have continued to use this license with no difficulty. This elementary benefit of federalism exists in a 'union' much younger and less centralized than our nation. Yet in the United States. where myopia and parochial closemindedness seems to have a stranglehold on people's minds. every state in the union issues its own license, and if you change res­idence between states, you are expected to go through the rigamorole once again. Nor can this nonsensical situation be easily changed, since each state has linked its own programs to revenues flowing from fees associ­ated with licensing and tagging: we have fifty different systems in place (count 'em: fifty is a lot). This may seem to be a minor example of the evils of statist local­ism, but it is a telling symptom of how warped our per­ceptions have become as a result of a new wave of anti-federalism unlike anything seen since the heyday of Southern factionalism just prior to the Civil War. Although people from other countries cannot fathom why we would not institute a uniform national driving license-which would reduce so many hassles for a people making frequent moves-the very idea would now fall under the classification of 'big government,' and we have been successfully conditioned by our 'puppet-masters' in the Heritage Foundation to auto­matically reject anything to which some demagogue has applied that label. 
But fifty little bureaucracies are not better than one centralized one: taken together, in fact, their result is much worse in several respects. In their precious naivete (or more likely: willingness to play on public ignorance), Republicans in Congress have not consid­ered this point when they proclaim that all of our prob­lems have an incredibly simple solution: just fracture every centralized federal program possible into a series of block grants to states. and all will he well! Now that all the gloating and clouds of egotism have cleared, at bottom the 'wisdom' of Newt boils down to this: just give it all back to the states. What profundity! Jefferson Davis thought of that too, yet it didn't prove to be a very good idea. The Confederacy, one might remember, was not a very well unified or coordinated community, since several state militias refused to serve outside their own borders. I wonder why. 
Republicans in the House recently passed bills to make dramatic reductions in the overall federal fund­ing for welfare and Medicaid-the only national pro­grams we have that presently give any significant aid to the poor as a group. The centerpiece of these bills was the decision to fund these programs through block grants to the states, which would control distribution and eligibility requirements, and have to supplement the federal outlay considerably if they wished to main­

tain close to current levels of assistance. Thus, the overall federal guarantees have been eliminated. This strategy has two enormous drawbacks no one seems to be talking about. First, it means that a whole range of upheavals will occur as a result of having fifty diverg­ing Medicaid and welfare systems rather than one national and uniform protection for all. The poor in poorer states or states less willing to provide guaran­tees will get poorer-or they will have to try to move to states with where they can still get some medical assis­tance. When people move from one state to another, confusion and red tape will mount. if someone living in Indiana and working in Chicago sees a doctor in Michigan for some service, whose Medicaid pays what percentage of what? If I move to a new state and then fall into desperate straits. does my old state have to contribute out o( taxes I paid there to my new state for my welfare? These and many related problems will become especially tangled in metropolitan areas cross­ing more than one state with an increased potential for abuse resulting as well. Moreover, the mind boggles trying to imagine how much waste and duplication there will be in fifty state welfare departments as opposed to one in Washington, D.C. Woe to the doctor trying to serve Medicaid patients from two different states in a border region: she will now have two sets of forms to fill out rather than one! Economic ineffi­ciencies like those related to the immobility of laborers with preexisting conditions will also enter our national dynamic: woe to the poverty stricken man who want to move from his home state to another where he can find a job, but is prevented because his family's WIC 
and Medicaid benefits won't transfer there, not even for long enough for him to get his feet on the ground. 
And yet, these are the least devastating effects the Republican anti-federalist fracturing of our welfare policies will have. The second drawback of this frac­tured system is that it puts states in precisely the kind of 'prisoner's dilemmas' that only uniform federal norms can prevent. The state is put under pressure to keep its welfare and medicaid payments as low as con­ceivable. for if they are higher than those in another state, the poor seeking benefits will come from the lower-paying state to the higher, and the rich, seeking lower taxes, will move to the state giving lower bene­fits. And this of course is the real underlying intention of the leaders of the New Right in the Heritage Foundation who originated this strategy: it is an indi­rect way of forcing a reduction of taxes on the rich to help the poor in every state-even in those with a majority of residents who believe that poor children ought not to be denied vaccines and a roof over their heads because of their chance of birth. We should have no illusions about their intentions: the new system is calculated to break the will of such persons of con­science by making them choose between heartlessness and economic ruin. Here is your state legislator speak­ing to a town meeting next year: "Sure, we all want to help the poor. but look Harry, if we don't eliminate these welfare and Medicaid benefits that our neighbor­ing states don't have, the poor and immigrants over there will flock here; our tax burden will go up, our property values down. businesses will leave. and it will be our children going without. " 
Even people of conscience will have difficulty resist­ing when put in that situation, because it is fundamen­tally unfair. The loss that puts us in this dilemma is the loss of national law. Many, perhaps even most of us are willing to pay something of our hard-earned money for welfare and Medicaid, both out of a sense of fair­ness to children and because we realize that we could be in the same position as the poor: but we are only willing to do this if we can be guaranteed that every­one else in our society will pay the same fair share. This is exactly what federal institutions let us achieve, and which competition among the states prevents us from doing. A workable and moral system cannot result from being forced to sell state welfare policies on the open national market. The whole value of law is not make possible a contract among us for common ends is to our mutual advantage, precisely to eliminate competition where competition is harmful to the over­all good of our society. But we have been tricked by the dominant ideology into forgetting the value of law itself, into believing that fracturing every system of mutual guarantee into competition among actors (whose cooperation is prevented) is always good-and the state block grant 'solution' is Newt's quickest means to this end. 
Our stupidity in accepting this lie is almost unbeliev­able. Many of the structural problems we already have in our system-as opposed to those we are about to add in the welfare arena-stem from this basic failure to use our federal unity to overcome dilemmas created by kinds of competition that make it worse for every­one. Consider, for example, how much better off our cities would be if it were illegal across the nation for any city to offer tax breaks to big corporations who move there. Then no city would be forced as it now is to gouge its residents and postpone building new schools for its children in order to give huge corporate welfare bribes, under the threat that if they don't, the company will simply go to another city that is more desperate. As things are, our communities are forced to prostitute ourselves for jobs, just because the prosti­tution is not illegal. Only unity and national law allows us to make the guarantees to one another we need to give moral shape to our society and stability to our communities: if we listen to the siren song of block grants and anti-federalism, we allow that richest five percent the New Right ultimately serves to divide us and conquer. 
JOHN DAVENPORT Doctoral Candidate in Philosophy 

---~--~------~-­
Notre Dame Navy 
35-17
. 
Navy was pelll\lized seven times for 61 yards. Two of the penalties wiped out touchdowns. 
~ 
Lyron Cobbins 
The junior linebacker shined again. as he forced a fumble, recorded a sack, and made his fourth Interception. 



• 

Irish get over Pow/us injury, Navy option to post second halfwin 
By MIKE NORBUT Spons Editor 
There's never been any ques­tion about it. Hon Powlus has al­ways lwnn Notre Dame's starting quarterback. Tom Krug, unless blnssnd with eontinuous flashes of brilliance that could possibly eonvinell Lou Holtz to sit his star rneruil, would always be re­served to a backup's role. 
Whnn Powlus left the field Sat­urday after being thrown to the ground on a sack by Navy's Fer­nando llarris, the team suddenly became Krug's. 
And the junior capitalized on the opportunity, leading the Irish to a 35-17 comeback win over an undisciplined Navy squad. 
"For three years, I went to bed the backup quarterback at Notre Dame," said Krug, was 5-of-8 for 90 yards and two touchdowns. 
see IRISH I page 2 

was pleased with tM way . he responded to.it." 
~L!lu Holtz. inrifirenre tu Rem 
Relief Pitcher 
Ron Powlus' broken humerus gave Tom Krug (left) his long-awaited opportunity. He took full advantage of it. 
-see page 2 

The Observer/Rob Finch 



Notre Dame split end Derrick Mayes adjust to a Tom Krug toss (left), gathers in the pass (above), and scores his second touchdown of his last home game (below). He finished the day with 4 catch­es for 81 yards and added to his career record for touchdown recpetions. 
• JOCK STRIP 
Circumstances add up to a fitti.ng finale for seniors, but not stadium 
The snowflakes fell softly upon Notre Dame Stadium. Peaceful, almost pleasant precipitation added just that picturesque post-card type effect to Saturday's pro­ceedings. Complaints about the temperature already '--::--:---=-~--...J 
plummeting in early Tim Sherman November aside, one Associate Sports couldn't help but harkening Editor back to the 1992 Penn State game. 
Granted. Navy is no Penn State and the 18 point victory hardly had students standing on the edge of their seat but one similarity beyond the weather does indeed exist. 
Like the classic end to the Penn State series, Saturday's game will be long remembtlred by the legion of Irish fans who have ever set foot inside of the House that Hockne built but not for it' drama. 
The game marked the end of Notre Dame Stadium as we know. Come next September 
see SHERMAN I page 3 • 


~--.-------------------------~-.~----------~------------~--------------------------------------------~------------~----------------~--~ 
page2 
Injury gives chance to Krug and spark to Irish 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
It had taken nearly two seasons, but people were finally started to put their fears to rest. 
No longer did a gasp go out when he put his head down to take a hit. In fact, it was becoming almost customary for him to jump up after being tackled and lett the defender and/or the referee know exactly what he was thinking. 
Gritty, hard-nosed and durable were beginning to replace phrases such as "Golden Boy". "Messiah", and "Savior". 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Derrick Mayes hauls in a 42 yard touch­down strike from Tom Krug. 
Irish 
continued from page 1 
"But these are not the circumstances I wanted to play under. Ron is one of my best friends and one the best players I've ever seen." 
Powlus' suffered a fractured humerus on the play, which will keep him out 4-6 months. 
The break, about four inches above the elbow in his left arm, may need surgery if a cast cannot keep it steady. Powlus will probably miss spring prac­tice, let alone the bowl game. 
"This is not an uncommon injury among athletes," said Dr. Will Yergler, head of the sports medicine program at Notre Dame. 
"But I've never seen a fractured humerus in a football player in my 22 years." 
While it wasn't the type of situation that anyone wanted to acknowledge, it was a real one nonetheless. 
"I feel sick about it," Holtz said. "But I still told the team that we have to find a way." 
Leaders came out of the woodwork following the injury, which served as a wake-up call for a team that trailed 17­14 to the Midshipmen at halftime. 
"All our bowl hopes, everything was riding on this game," fullback Marc Edwards said. 
"We all offered Tom some words of encouragement, and we knew everyone was going to have to step up their play a little bit." 
Krug opened it up right away, throw­ing bombs to Charlie Stafford and Derrick Mayes on his second and third attempts. 
The pass to Mayes went for a 42-yard touchdown and put the Irish ahead for good at 21-17. 
"All week we thought we could deep on them on the corners," Krug said. "It was great. It got me loose and gave me some confidence." 
The rest of the team followed suit. 
"The defense did step up," cornerback Allen Rossum said. "We came together as a team and put Navy away." 
A Lyron Cobbins interception on 
That all ended at the 
11:12 mark of the third quarter when Navy line­backer Fernando Harris chased down a scram­bling Powlus and slung him to the turf. Powlus landed squarely on his left arm, breaking the humerus. 
"Ron fell on his arm and the humerus snapped four inched above his elbow," said Dr. Will Yergler, director of Irish sports medicine. "The bone was fractured completely across the arm. Right now, the alignment is satisfactory so surgery will probably not be necessary. long as the arm stays straight, a cast is all that will be needed." 

While the he aling The Observer/Mike Ruma process will be relatively Tom Krug stepped in admirably for an injured Ron Powlus and sparked the Irish to the comeback victory. simple, it will by no The junior threw eight times, completely five for 90 yards. Two of the tosses went for touchdowns. 
means be a quick recuperation. 

"The healing time will be between four and six months," Yergler predicted. 
That prognostication makes a bowl· game return out of the question and spring ball very unlikely. 
But a timetable for Powlus' return was the furthest thing from Notre Dame's mind Saturday. 
Powlus departed with the Irish trailing 17-14. As much as the team's thoughts had to be with him, there was still a game to win. 
Enter Tom Krug. , 

"I was really pleased with the way Thomas Krug played," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "He made some mistakes but he did some good things." 
Navy's ensuing possession once the Irish had taken the lead gave Notre Dame the ball at the Midshipmen's 36. 
Three plays later, Krug found Mayes again, this time on a three-yard timing pattern in the right corner of the end zone. 
"I think when you have more plays and more snaps, you can open your offense a little more," Krug said. "You can use your tools a little bit better." 
The ball then started rolling in Notre Dame's favor, as they stopped Navy on downs before executing a seven-play, 60-yard drive that culminated in an Autry Denson 24-yard run. 
It was quite a change from the first half, when the Irish were burned fre­quently by the Midshipmen option before being saved by penalties that negated several Navy scoring chances. 
"We're the least penalized team in the 
... Running Backs B 
Autry Denson, Marc Edwards and RandyKinderran 
fi~ld. Allen Rc:~:ssum caiile through with a late pick, and 

harg.,J.>.t.Ito.ne .· · .g ~1!1' · mi.!'sec:l ~locldng f1~~hJ1l~ 
~Jton Moore1.nade a crucial fumble recovery. It can't

merit....contribu ·to Pow injury" , 
·· · 
cover up 231 passing yards by a running Navy squad. 
•.·. .. . . ... ... ...... .. . . Sp~cial Teams B 

Derric~ May····· . .. ... esoriitibig catches to help· mak(t ....... J¢rSmith's punts were less than mediocre, and 
Krugshine in hi§ relief /Charlie Stafford made his third catCh 
Of ·the]ist goes OJ:i. 
A good performance in 1:11¢.second half. The offense had trouble moving the baWin the ru-st half, 
becatise ofso ···· ·.· ... 
Defens•ve Line 
301 yards by Nav¥ inthe prst halfisnot a good stat. 'fJ;ie ~~l~~P: w · · · ~~¥ tac~l~d the. fullJ?~ck. 
Looking at the final stat sheet, those good things read : 5-8, 90 yards, 2 touchdown passes. Not too bad for someone most people assumed would be a career back-up. 
"You've got to believe in something and stick with it," Krug said. "I love Notre Dame and what it stands for. It was great to get a chance to represent it. I thought I could have performed better but you always do." 
His teammates were plenty satisfied with the play. 
"Tom Krug played like a veteran and took it on himself to lead us," fullback Marc Edwards said. 
In fact, Krug led the Irish to three touchdowns in less than ten minutes, 
country," Navy coach Charlie Weatherbie said. "I think we had more penalties in the first half than we had all year." 
Two sure touchdowns, a near score and an Irish turnover in the fourth quarter were all negated by penalties on the Midshipmen. 
And even with the mishaps, Navy dominated the first half. 
The Midshipmen racked up 301 yards of offense in the first half, compared to only 132 for the Irish. 
There was no rusher that excelled, but the option as a whole seemed to confuse the Irish defense initially, as it was against Army. 
"You can't really get into the option until the second half," Rossum said. "You just have to get into the frame of mind to stop it." 
Notre Dame wasn't there on Navy's 
.· .. 
> n Gobhl'fis made things happen with a fumble caused, a fumble recovery and an interception. They just couldn~t get that pesky Navy QB though, at least 
the second half came around. 
Secondary B-
Ben Fay had afield day, hitting passes all over the 
every snap was an adventure. Scott Cengia didn't miss .., ·"''~t ..... point. though. Hooray. 
·Co~hill.g ~ IOOKea flat coming ot1t..;;that should never last ho01e game of the season. 

anugly win. But that's become the norm these d~ys for the Irish, who always seem to play to the level m ·g~~~~1r GS~ll~t~tio~:,; ··Mike Norbut 
two of them coming on quick strikes to Derrick Mayes. 
"Throwing to Derrick is pretty sim­ple," Krug said. "you just have to get it out there and he's going to come down with it." 
Krug was also quick to praise his pro­tectors. 
"As time went on, I got more and more comfortable," Krug said. "It's easy with guys like Ryan Leahy and Dusty Ziegler. I can't even see over them." 
Krug was also having trouble seeing past Powlus' misfortune. 
""Ron's one fo my best friends and one of the best players I've ever seen," Krug said. "I just wish him the best." 
first drive. The Midshipmen breezed down the field in six plays and 1:50, tak­ing a quick 7-0 lead on a Ross Scott 15­yard touchdown run. 
The Irish then capitalized on a Navy personal foul to drive down to their eight-yard line, where Powlus found Leon Wallace in the flat to even the score, 7-7. 
The Midshipman option/run-and-shoot attack continued to plague the Irish defense, however. as they struck again in the second quarter. 
Navy quarterback Ben Fay, who was a last-minute replacement for starter Chris McCoy, drove the Midshipmen down the field with passes to Astor Heaven and Cory Schemm before scam­pering into the end zone on a keeper to give Navy a 14-7lead. 
Fay, was 18-for-31 for 231 yards for the ground-oriented Navy offense. 
Linebackers B 
page 3 

Monday, November 6, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
Navy in holiday spirit, give Irish victory 
Penalties, turnovers kill Midshipmen supset bid 


By MIKE DAY 
Sports Wrirer 
With the snow gently falling as Navy showered a barrage of gifts on the Irish, one would have thought that Christmas came early at Notre Dame Sta­<lium. 
Indeed, Saturday's 35-17 gift wrapped victory over Navy eame with the Midshipmen, the same people who are thor­oughly trained and prepared to defend the country in battle, displaying an uncanny knack of shooting themselves in the foot. 
"We feel like we beat our­selves instead of Notre Dame beating us," said Navy head coach Charlie Weatherbie. 
"If you give a good team like Notre Dame that many opportu­nities, they'll find a way to win." 
While the Midshipmen self destructed in key situations all day long, the turning point of the game took place midway through the third period. 
Already leading 17-14 and with momentum in their back pocket, Navy quarterback Ben Fay found wideout Ross Scott wide open for a touchdown. The scoreboard read: Navy 23 Irish 14, and the Midshipmen seemed primed to end 31 years of suffering. 
However, the gunshot that 



PREV­TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Nebraska (45) 9-0-0 1530 1 
2. Ohio State (12) 9-0-0 1470 4 
3. Florida (5) 8-0-0 1464 3 
4. Tennessee 8-1-0 1346 5 
5. Northwestern 8-1-0 1288 6 
6. Florida State 7-1-0 1241 2 
7. Kansas State 8-1-0 1165 9 
8. Notre Dame 8-2-0 1095 8 
9. Colorado 7-2-0 954 ~0 10. Kansas 8-1-0 940 11 11. Texas 6-1-1 913 13 12. Southern Cal 7-1-1 836 14 13. Michigan 7-2-0 744 7 14. Virginia 7-3-0 698 24 15. Arkansas 7-2-0 679 18 16. Alabama 7-2-0 641 16 17. Oregon 7-2-0 619 19 18. Texas A&M 5-2-0 562 17 19. Penn State 6-3-0 442 12 20. Auburn 6-3-0 419 21 21. Virginia Tech 7-2-0 378 22. Washington 5-3-1 227 15 23. Syracuse 6-2-0 85 20 24. Clemson 6-3-0 73 
7-2-0

25. San Diego St. 62 
rang across the stadium was not just the sound of another crime being committed on the streets of South Bend. 
Moreover, it was the suppos­edly well disciplined Midshipmen firing their weapon at their foot for the umpteenth time. 
The touchdown pass to Scott was negated by a holding pe­natly, and Navy was left with a 39-yard field goal attempt that fell short. 
"That was crucial for us be­cause we needed to get the ball back with the opportunity to take the lead," said Notre Dame fullback Mark penalty. 
"It was a big penalty for them that may have hurt their confi­dence, but that's just part of football." 
Unbelievably, it was not the only Navy touchdown negated due to penalty. Late in the first quarter with the score tied at 
The Observer/Rob Finch

seven, Fay spotted receiver 
Irish cornerback Allen Rossum returns a kick-off for 38 yards. In addi­

LeBron Butts open in the end 
tion, the sophomore recorded his third interception on the season. 

zone for an apparent touch­down. "We are the least penalized "It was more of a case of us 
team in the country, and we forcing turnovers and forcing 

However, an illegal procedure made more penalties in the first them into mistakes than any­penalty ruined Navy's oppor­half than we've had in any thing," said Irish linebacker tunity to take a 14-7 lead, and game all year." Kinnon Tatum. two plays later, Midshipmen While Navy committed seven "We hung in there when kicker Jason Covarrubias some costly penalties for 61 yards, it things weren't going our way, how found a way to hook a 20-didn't help that they also and we got back into our game yard field goal attempt. The turned the ball over a whopping by forcing them to make mis-result: two touchdowns negat­five times in the second half. takes." ed by penalty, and no points to Two consecutive miscues over While the Irish celebrated show for it. an 80 second span in the third Christmas early on Saturday, 
"We felt like we should have quarter turned a 17-14 Navy the Midshipmen returned to the had at least 35 maybe 38 points lead into a commanding 28-17 seas with emptied guns and in the first half," said Weather­advantage for the Irish. some awfully sore feet. 
hie. 
• BY THE BOOK 
TEAM STATISTICS 

NO  NAVY  
First downs  15  24  
Rushes-yards  43-165  54-202  
Pass~ng yards  154  231  
Comp-att-int  18-31-2  9-16-0  
Return yards  78  110  
Fumbles-lost  1-1  3-3  
Penalties-yards  6-77  7-61  
Punts-ave  8-34.4  3-42.0  
3rd down conv  4-12  9-17  
4th down conv  0-0  1-3  
Possession time  27:28  32:32  
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS  

RUSHING -Notre Dame: Denson 16-115 1TD. Edwards 11-46, Farmer 2-11, Kinder 5·1 0, Spencer 2-4. Krug 1-0, Pow Ius 6­(minus 21) 1TD. 
Navy: Cannada 15-56, Fay 26-53 1TD, Scott 3-42 1TD, Smilh 1-24, Schemm 2-12, Dingle 2-7, McGrew 1-4, Nelson 3-4, Bryant 1-0. 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 

1  2  3  4  F  
Notre Dame  7  7 14  7  35  
Navy  7 10  0  0  17  

SCORING SUMMARY 
FIRST QUARTER 

Navy 7, Notre Dame 0 Scott 15 run (Covarrubias kick) at 
11 :02 (6 plays, 54 yards, 1 :50 elapsed). Key Play: Fay hit McGrew for 21 yards to the Irish 23. 
Notre Dame 7, Navy 7 

Wallace 8 pass from Powlus (Cengia kick) at 8:19 (6 plays, 63 yards, 2:43). Key Play: A late-hit penalty on 3rd & 15 gave the Irish a first down at the Navy 15. 
SECOND QUARTER 
Navy 14, Notre Dame 7 

Fay 3 run (Graham kick) at 4:03 (10 plays, 51 yards, 3:53). Key Play: Fay found Heaven for a first down at the Irish 38. 
Notre Dame 14, Navy 14 

Powlus 1 run (Cengia kick) at 1:17 (8 plays, 49 yards, 2:46). Key Play: Powlus avoided a sack and hit Mayes to convert on 3rd & 12. 
PASSING· Notre Dame: Powlus 4-8-0-64, Krug 5·8-0-90 2TD. Navy: Fay 18-31-2-231. 
RECEIVING-Notre Dame: Mayes 4-81 2TD, Wallace 2-6, Stafford 1-38, Edwards 1­30, Chryplewicz 1-(minus 1 ). 
Navy: Heaven 6-97, Schemm 5-35, McGrew 2-30, Bulls 2-29. Scoll 2-19, Scomavacchl1-21. 
TACKLES-Notre Dame: Grasmanis 12, Moore 11 (1 lum rec), Cobbins 10 (1 sack, 1 int), Talum 10, Minor 8, Magee 8, Wooden 8, Bennell 5, Wynn 4 (1 sack), Berry 4, Carretta 4, Covinglon 2 (1 fum rec), Babey 2, Rossum 1 (1 lnl), Monahan 1, Guilbeaux 1, Frascogna 1. 
Navy: Aloia 14, Harris 6 (1 sack), Person 4 (1 sack, 1 fum rec), Andrews 4, Thompson 4, Bruce 4, Speed 3 (1 sack), Scanlan 3, Galloway 3. Ogden 3, Green 2, James 2, Poulter 2, Ryno 2, Quinn 2, Smith 1, Dillon 1, Coffey 1. 
Navy 17, Notre Dame 14 
Graham 21 FG at 0:00 (10 plays, 68 yards, 1:17). Key Play: Heaven pulled down passes of 26 and 27 yards to set up the FG. 
THIRD QUARTER 
Notre Dame 21, Navy 17 
Mayes 42 pass from Krug (Cengia kick) at 4:58 (1 play, 42 yards, :08). Key Play: Covington recovered a fumbled punt at the Navy 42. 
Notre Dame 28, Navy 17 
Mayes 3 pass from Krug (Cengia kick) at 3:28 (3 plays, 36 yards, 1: 19). Key Play: Edwards gained 30 yards on a screen pass down to the Navy 6. 
FOURTH QUARTER 
Notre Dame 35, Navy 17 Denson 24 run (Cengia kick) at 10:54 (7 plays, 60 yards, 3:13). Key Play: Mayes and Edwards threw blocks that sprung Denson free. 
Shennan 
continued from page 1 
14th, when the Irish take the field to face the Purdue Boilermakers, things will be different. 
The differences may not be that major yet, but any change to a monumet such as Notre Dame Stadium is highly significant. 
Just a quick glance at the field would tell you that. No painted endzones, no flashy leprechaun ready to throw down at midfield. Some even got upset when the sesquentenial logo was dropped down in the endzones. 
You see, Notre Dame isn't into change. Tradition is the thing. And this game will become part of that tradition. 
It is quite fitting that the last home game for this class of seniors was special. So inany more of their games were too. 
In fact, memorable games have almost come to define the class of 1996. · 
When Irish fans look back on things ten years from, many of the most memorable games will be among the 24 home games of these last four seasons, whether they like it or not. 
The 1992 Stanford comeback, the 1993 Boston College epic and the 1994 Michigan clash may very well not be pleasant memories, but they were special nonetheless. 
On the other end of the spectrum though, games like the '92 Penn State gem and the #1/#2 showdown against Florida State in 1993 are sure to ,go down in the annals of Irish football as clas­sics. 
Unfortunately, the only reason this game will join them is because of the cirucumstance and that's somewhat sad. 
The fans, the players, and the Stadium deserved better. 
Something like a 38-36 shootout against Southern Cal would have been fitting. This was not. Even 35-17 would have been acceptable were it the Trojans, but it wasn't meant to be. As we have learned very well in recent years, even the world or Irish football isn't perfect 

But don't blame the Irish , they tried their best .. to keep it close. They've had a knack for that over the past four years. In some respects, it's been a positive. They added a few more memories to the already memorable Notre Dame Stadium. 
---~­
----~-~------------------~·--.~ 
Monday, November 6, 1995

page 4 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Irish wide receiver Charlie Stafford finished his career at Notre Dame Stadium with his third, and most spectacular reception of the year. 


The Observer/ Mike Ruma Autry Denson paced the Irish rushing attack with 116 yards on only 16 carries, including a 24 yard touchdown scamper. 
Notre Datne 35 Navy 17 
Notre Dame Stadium November 4, 1995 
• GAME NOTES By MIKE NORBUT 
Sports Editor 
Derrick Mayes' eyes were misty after Saturday's game. And why not? It was his final game in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz continuously told his seniors all week to not let their tears get in the way of blocking, tackling and catching the football. Mayes was a perfect example of the doctrine. 
He shared a tear with the crowd and his family at Friday night's pep rally. But the tears were absent dur­ing his four-catch, 81-yard, two­touchdown performance against Navy Saturday. 
"We tried to keep it as if it was another game," he said. "We all just knew what we had to do." 
At least on the field, it was business as usual. Mayes especially knew his job description when quarterback Ron Powlus went down with a frac­tured humerus and Tom Krug had to come in to direct the offense. 
"I encouraged (Tom Krug) every play," he said. "I let him know that in distress, I'm always there if he needs me." 
Krug took the senior's advice, hit­ting him on two touchdown passes in the second half that made the differ­ence in Notre Dame's 35-17 victory. 
Once the clock wound down, how­ever, his eyes welled up, as he once again shared a tear, this time with the Notre Dame students. 
Any regrets about staying for a senior year? "Not at all," he said, "In the good times or the bad." 
Fond Farewell: It wasn't just the seniors that were playing in their final game at Notre Dame Stadium. 
The stadium as we know it, at least. 
"It was our seniors' last game in the stadium," sophomore Allen Rossum said. "It was pretty much everybody's last game in the stadium as it is." 
Underclassmen will be seeing a facility in flux next year, as plans to add on to the 66,075-fan fitting frame will begin Monday. 
The construction plans are set to be finished before the 1997 football sea­son begins. 
It's kind of ironic that the last game to be played in the old stadium was the women's interhall champi­onship-Pangborn vs. Lyons. 
Pleading the Fifth: The realization that hit Dusty Ziegler like a ton of bricks during the game seemed like a distant memory afterward. 
"If we were to lose this game, it definitely would have been a reason to come back," Ziegler said. "Now. going pro is definitely an option for me," Ziegler said. 
The senior offensive guard, who had been contemplating returning for a fifth year, didn't seem to concerned about the future, at least until this one is finished. 
Seniors that could possibly be accepted for a fifth year are de­fensive tackle Renaldo Wynn, tight end Pete Chryplewicz. offensive guard Jeremy Akers, among others. 
Greetings: Former Notre Dame head coach Gerry Faust made a guest appearance in the press box Saturday, slapping the back of any passer-by that was within an arm's length. 
The present coach of Akron brought his son, Gerry, with him to visit with familiar Notre Dame execu­tives and members of the media. 

ACCENT 
Monday, November 6, 1995 page 11 
GAMES PEOPLE PLAY 
!Rofe--pfayin!J demons fur£in lhe dorms anddunyeons o[Xolre 7Jame 
By SARAH CORSON Accent Copy Edimr 
D
rips echo as they fall from the cankerous, slimy dungeon walls as your breath quickens in time with your footfalls. A sixth sense strangles you; something, some unutterable evil rapidly nncroaches. Soon its stench punctures your nostrils and the scrape of its ungodly claws reverberates through the inky corridor. Kalslkirk, the notoriously gluttonous dragon of this nmlrn's dungeons, bears upon you and mere snconds remain for your defense. All your fear and strength streaks to your arm, which immediately brandish­es your glimmering sword ... 
Scattered throughout classrooms in abandoned weekday buildings, such oeeult scenes transpire during the dark­nst hours of the weekends here at Notre Damn. The Legendier's League on earn­pus is Notre Dame's official united body of roln-players, or garners, and has been since the early '80's. 
Tlw club's prosident, junior engineer major Handy Synder, quotnd their mem­bership at forty, saying that each game draws an average of five players. Aceording to him, the League only meets twice a year--to cough up the two dollar due and sign up for games. As President, Synder allocates classrooms, stoeks a small gamebook library, and organizes the occasional tournament. "The yearly due-pittance gathered is supposed to maintain the library, but with the elub's meager balance, one book is a tall order," laughed senior ganwr AI Berres. 
Caming, he added, can be an ex­pmtsivn venturn, considering that hand­hooks can range from $20 to $25. l'rospnetive garners can select "Star Wars." "Live Aetion Vampire," "Cyperpunk," and, of course, "Dungeons and Dragons" (!)&D)-the four games currnntly being played on campus. For tmeh g~unt~. a GameMaster organizes the nwt~tings, dirnets thfl actions, and invents sfltting, plot, and NPC (non-play­nr eharaetnrs). 
Partieipants in "Star Wars" can slip into thfl guise of a banty Ewok warrior, a elanky Protocol Druid, or even a failed .lfldi lush. However, playing the main characters is strictly forbidden as death continually threatens garners' charac­tNs. If Luke or Leia croaked, the future sequels would be seriously bungled up. Garners either represent the oppressed good of the Hebel Alliance, or side with it as Ewoks or indifferent Bounty Hunters. Jessica Szczepaniak-Gillece, a senior English/ Spanish major and .Juggler Editor, commented that, "A lot of nuttiness goes on in 'Star Wars.' You ean get away with weird things, as char­acters try to sneak and sleaze around like llan Solo." "Star Wars" ranks as pnrhaps the most innocent game because of its inherent Good versus Evil pattnrn, while--should you ehoose-­otht~r gamns allow moral ambivalence. 
The paradigm ease of questionable goodness surfaces in "Live Action Vampim," which, said Rerres, is swiftly repladng D&D as the "intro or hook" to new gamers. "Live Action Vampire," explained Szczepaniak-Gillece, chal­lenges in the incmasingly legalistie and burdensome gaming methods of, for example, D&D. with a "Story-Telling System" and new element of physical theatrics (not merely verbal), leading to an "lmprov Theater." Synder agreed, '"Live Action Vampire' threw out the dice, pen, and papnr, substituting them with simplified rock-scissor-paper rules. It bncame like a big soap opera with no 
script, lines, or direc­tor." 
Garners even don cos­tumes, white make-up, and fangs. This game normally takes place in modern times, and fol­
lows the general "Interview With a Vampire" soul-plot: the initiation, the realization of immortality and eter­nal condemnation. and the bitter fight against
inner evil drives (and rivaling vamp clans). "Live Action Vampire," Szczepaniak-Gillec e revealed, "Has extended to other areas, including fairies, ghosts, were­wolves, and magic­users." These realms have been dubbed "World of Darkness," where supernatural creatures prowl about in a modern setting. 
"Cyberpunk" and other apocalyptic games mir­ror "World of Darkness" in gloominess and bizarre creatures, differ­ing only in their fu­turistic setting. It takes place in a gritty 2020, where various charac­ters like solo assas­sin/soldiers, rockers, nomad gang-members, 

Armies of Games, Countless Fantasies. • • 
Futuristic 
0 Star Wars Reinvent the movie within context 0 Star Trek Reinvent the show or movie within context 0 Cyberpunk Street-tough, cyborg detectives 0 Paranoia Double-cross 0 Underground Do-it-yourself political satire 0 ShadowRun 
Baffling gnomes and warlocks with uzies and prosthetic bodyparts 

War I Historical 
0 G.U.R.P. General \Jniversal Role Playing. Your guess... 0 War Hammer Primitive armies swarms of combat figurines · 0 Boot Hill Old west shoot-'em-up · 0 Top Secret Seductive, urbane 1930's (feminist oriented) 
Dungeons & Dragons 
0 Dragon Lance Slay de dragon 0 Spell Jammer Unicorns in celestial sphere 0 Ravenloft Transylvania-inspired horror/goth -beware! 
Present Day 
Act out travails of ghosts, faries, werewolves and vampires

0 Wraith 0 Live Action Vampire Hopefully not as seditious as Antonio Bandaras in "Interview" 
Real History 
0 Society of Creative Make your own chain mail and wear it sword fighting Anachronism 
0 Civil War Wear head to toe wool amidst cannon-fodder 
0 Regency Prance around gay Pairee 1880's style 
ben evo lent corporate L---------------------------------------' 
execs, and whistle-blow­ing journalists scurry about as self-serv­ing detectives on the verge of discover­ing conspiracy. Other such games include the psuedo-intellectal "Over the Edge," the political romp "Underground," the obsessed "Star Trek," the back-stabbing and aptly­named "Paranoia," and the anachronis­tic elves-in-a-dark-future "ShadowRun." 
The "Dungeons and Dragons" medieval equivalent to "ShadowHun" is a sub-world game called "Spell .Jammer," where fantastic creatures like gnomes find their way into the from confound­ingly mathemati­cal rule-mechan­ics. For instance, to shoot/strike an enemy, you have to roll the dice to deter­mine if you make contact, then roll again to reveal where they were wounded, and again to see to what degree. The human body has even been diagrammed for player conve­nience. 

On a national and internation­al level, Wisconsin-based TSH hosts an annual conven­know as GenCon that draws thousands. Here, 
TSH capitalizes with the inevitable demo 
booth, but also auctions off used materi­
al, offering bargains and vintage games. 
The national Hole Playing Game 
worlds like popular "Dragon Lance," the dragon-slaying realm, and "Havenloft," D&D Hell where, for once, characters are not garranteed a hero's conquest. 
D&D originated, not surprisingly, in the early '70's, but remained obscure until its contagion in the early '80's amongst high school students. One can find a place in D&D's Tolkien-inspired medieval fantasy as a character in one of four classes: as a cleric, a fighter, a thief. or a magic-wielder. Players deter­mine their character and characteristics by choice and--for fairness--by dice. Often gamers need to draw maps and 
the whole play­Association (HPGA) helps put on GenCon, where garners swap hand­books, comic books, baseball cards, and colorful character exploits. In addition, every sizable city organizes gaming con­ventions. The Griffon--a fantasy book/comic store next to LaSalle Grille-­serves local garners. 
As with any imaginative, occult endeavor, some offended, concerned voices have gurgled up against the "witchcraft, Satanism, and overall cor­ruptive influence" of role-playing. Generally these complaints issue from Christian fundamentalists, but the Legendier's League has never had run­ins with Notre Dame's Catholic adminis­tration, according to Synder. He further affirmed that he has never known per­sonally of anyone getting addicted to role-playing, though he conceded the possibility exists. 
Most garners tend to be males between 18-25, but women are slowly showing more interest. Szczepaniak-Gillece said, "When I started role-playing as a sopho­more, I was the only girl at the Legendier's League meetings. I expect­ed an attitude, but I got accepted and welcomed. It was real cool." Since her arrival, other women such as Medieval Club President Corrina Weber have joined. 
Beyond the realm of pure fantasy, which focuses on story-telling and imag­ination, lie numerous historical societies for re-enactment. The Society for Creative Anachronism (medieval gurus), 
...
the Civil War He-Enactors (retentively precise reincarnates). and the avant­guarde Hegency people (late-19th-cen­tury-France-buffs) stand out as popular, historical improv theater. 
For historians or fantasists, role-play­ing extends the rare opportunity to become what one could not otherwise. Synder perfectly synthesized the joy of gaming, "It is bizarre and hysterical to get creative people together and play off [each other's] ludicrous ideas." 

--------------------~---------·-------------------------------------------------­
page 12 Monday, November 6, 1995
ACCENT 
• Jusr ANoTHER S~t4GtE DAouv••• AMmm: REVIEW 


By SCOTT BOZIK Accent Movie Critic 
(out of four) 
S
ynopsis: Watch out Sicily, there is a new geographic region looking to ru;tablish itself on the international map of crime. Please extend a hearty cinema welcome to the Russian mob; and in the same process, prepare yourselves for yet another movie about sassy female attorneys. "Fair Game," the theatrical debut of our gen­eration's Bogart and Garbo, is a visual spectacle confined to the narrative parameters of the incessant chase. Cindy Crawford and William Baldwin lead the audience through a sometimes tense, though more often contrived, series of events that pits these budding Oliviers against the always impressive capacities of Comrade Corleone and his merry band of cronies. 
Daddy: 
After a long truancy because of an overseas assignment, the self-proclaimed patriarch of the Accent movie pages is poised to make a triumphant return to your imaginations and your lives. I am both prepared and committed to producing the best column I am capable of writing; and I am likewise promising to deliver the critical information you so crave and require. However, no amount of zeal or verve on my part can spare the South Bend movie houses from the virtual tsunami of crappy flicks that promises to violently buffet its shores in the always barren interim period before the Holiday Season. 
Alas, "Fair Game" fails to ele­vate itself from the mediocre, and often downright disappointing, crowd of motion pictures with which it travels into your hometown. Stay at home, put a mildly inspirational musical score on the Hi-Fi, and watch MTV's House of Style with a strapping, hairy-chested lad; and, in doing so, save your­selves a few dollars. I am more than willing to wager the value of a ticket that in doing so you'll create a perfectly equivalent alternative to actually attending a showing of "Fair Game." 
As a completely objective and honest critic, I strutted into the dank and damp theater behind the mall hoping to be presented with a solid acting performance courtesy of Crawford in her first time at the cinematic plate. I thought to myself: "Sure, she's a gorgeous supermodel; sure, her primary job is the ex­tremely important task of modeling clothing (an occupa­tion that undeniably holds the fate of the Western Civilization in a precarious balance); but do these facts necessarily mean that Ms. Crawford can't act?" 
Please allow me to be the first to let this "cat" (if I may be per­mitted this small pun) out of its respective bag. Cindy Crawford has all the theatrical skills of the fine thespian who used to be her husband. Although they could find no middle ground in matrimony, Richard Gere .and 

Crawford have found one area in which they still have an incredible amount in common. Stated in diplomatic terms, Gere and Crawford could be the worst acting tandem since George Burns and Gracie Allen; and the most tragic aspect of this condemnation is the fact that Crawford and Gere aren't even mildly amusing. Say goodnight, Cindy, I don't fore­see a return to the big screen for you (I only wish I could say 
H
ollywood has once again decided that a pair of pretty faces is all that is required to produce a decent movie. 
the same for Sir Richard as well). 
Could this film be salvaged by a heroic performance from Will "The Thrill" Baldwin? The answer to this query is a re­sounding "maybe." "Fair Game" had a mildly intriguing plot and the effects wizards behind the movie's inherently spectacular explosions deserve a brisk pat on their backs for creating some truly frightening moments. Although there were elements of "Fair Game" that are commonly associated with a good action or suspense movie, these shockingly infrequent appearances of genuine quality are too few and far between to save this movie by themselves. That leaves "Fair Game" des­perately trying to follow up the question that opens this para­graph by inquiring whether or not Baldwin does make this film worthwhile. I am sorry to say that the answer to this question is a concrete "no." 
Speaking of Baldwins, "Fair Game" leaves Daddy pondering the mysterious and terrifying number of Baldwins that fre­quent Hollywood productions these days. I know for a fact that there are no less than 79 Baldwins in Hollywood and that their ranks are growing. Is Clan Baldwin the result of some insidious government plot to clone our most mediocre actors in an attempt to sabotage the movie industry (perhaps with Senator Helms at the helm of this fiendish endeavor)? A good theory, but I think that this group of hacks is the result of an alien invasion launched by extra-terrestrial beings who physically manifest themselves in the form of sentient chest hair. Does this assertion sound ridiculous? I would contend that it is nowhere near as ludi­crous as the idea that William Baldwin and Cindy Crawford could muster up enough dra­matic skill between themselves to participate in an episode of "Martin," let alone serve as the focal point of a full-length fea­ture. 
Lest I appear to be completely negative, there were a few facets of "Fair Game" that I can actually compliment. For in­stance, I must commend "Fair Game" for incorporating the Russian mob into the film's narrative. Here is a group of criminals (whose nefarious match might only be found in a Fighting Irish backfield) who ride out and about in Miami in the most awe-inspiring RV's seen since "Tango and Cash." Former KGB agents and assas­sins are a-plenty in "Fair Game." Did we really think it would be too long before Hollywood found yet another way to incite the ire of its audi­ences against their familiar Eurasian foes? The ideological clash between East and West is back for the attack, except that this time around it just isn't quite as poignant or plausible. 

In the end, "Fair Game" just doesn't satisfy Daddy's cin­ematic appetites and I am quite sure that this film is doomed to quickly exit the theaters and to collect dust on the shelves of video stores for years to come. Hollywood has once again de­cided that a pair of pretty faces is all that is required to pro­duce a decent movie. Tragically, we are the ones who must suffer through the perfor­mances of the Cruises, the Pitts and the Roberts of the world because of this same, flawed assumption. If all you really want to see are unbelievably attractive individuals in­teracting in completely unbelievable circumstances that imply that their audience is an insipid mass, stay home and watch "Melrose Place." At least you don't have to pay money to be insulted in that fashion. 
• DAYS OF OUR LIVES UPDATE 
~y··· 
n 
By CHRISTINA FTICSAR and ERIN KELSEY "Days ofOur Lives" Correspondents 

H
ello "Days" fans, We're back with the week's newest exciting news from Salem. The biggest news has to deal with Jack, Jennifer, and Peter. Jennifer and Peter. escorted Sarah back to Aremid in Peter's private jet while Jack showed the video of the "lady-in~white" supposedly crying t~ 

.. 
Hope. She verified that the sound on the video was definitely someone cry­ing. 
Jack, whose hopes were up, went to Arny, the producer of his and Jennifer's show, and got him to send him to Aremid to cover Peter and Jenn's wed· ding. With an excuse in hand, Jack went to Aremid. While taking a nap; Jennifer dreamed of her demise at the hands of the "lady-in-white." When she woke up.yvith the "lady-in-white" actu­ally chokillg her, she sctellmed alld P~ter,,Sar<lh:r and ~.aqk :nmnipg, Even aftelt Jenn sho eter the marks on her neck, Peter attempted to dis~ss thi13 ftll as a 9re~nt:;iJ: N. .. it.. 


Later; at the only place mJ\i'emid that serves food, the Parrot man overheard Jack and J~nn speaking ofthe dream. Parrot Mall then predicted. that sorne" one would die.. Sarah came running in claiming that the "lady~in-white" chased her, Jack, Peter, apd Jenn went to look for this mysterious being. Unfortunately, aU three split up (duh. who besides the gang from Scooby-Doo would opttolook fora ghost?) 
Of course, Jenn disappeared as the Parrot Man exclaimed, "And now. the words I know you dread. JenniferJs dead." Everyone went ballistic as they looked for her. Taking Jennifer was as odd as all of the "lady-in-wh,i~e's" a«:Jtivi· ties--earlier. this week she was walking around drawing a picture of a tomb­stone and holdinga picture of Jack, Jenn, andAbhyup to it. (When Will the ~lady•ill•}Vhite~· finally end?) As>Jenn awoke, the "lady~in'"white" held arock over her head--ooo! Who thinks she'll Uye? Ltu~ra au.d doctordwow·all Mike 
showed< up to help · searclt for Jenn. A nice idea; unfortunately, Laura insisted on discussing old sex memories with Jaek Talk about gross! 
Speaking of gross sex, John and Kristen almost consummated their rela­tionship. P9lfortunately time ran J)Ut on Friday before the act could be complet­ed. Howev(lr, not having sex wasn't the worst thing that John encc:~untered this past week. In. fact, it was on(l of the 
best. The majority of his week was spent trying to convince Kristen of T.ony's "evil" plans and his involvement in Father Francis's death. (At this point we'd appreciate itif everyone could ta}(e a momem to reflect on father Francis's brief life on the show and the good that he brought to Salem). 
What John doesn't know is that Tony is after him and is getting closer and doser to activating his plan. Luckily. Stefano found a pen on the floor near Tony's desk. As he reached to put the pen back in the drawer, we could only wonder if maybe Stefano will discover Tony's diary. (We know that we have discussed this before. but what in the world happened to Stefano's inoperable brain tumor?) 

While the father and son DiMera clan were bonding over Stefano's new desire not to remember his past, Marlena called John to ask about Belle. When John found out she was at Tony's, he once again flew into a rampage threat­ening to come over and get her. But ''she·man" Kristen put a stop to that by refusing to let John go. This was about the twentieth fight this week between John and Marlena over Stefano, and ·even Marlena is beginning to question her motives to wanting Stefano to stay 
in her apartment. Could it be love? 

L---------------------------------------------------~-------~ -----­
---~---------------·-_.......____..____________~-----~-~---~­
Monday, November 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Lemieux regains scoring touch 
By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Associa1cd Press 
If lhn NII I. snason has con­firnwd anything so far. it's just how difficult it will be for the Now .Jnrsey Devils lo repeal as Stanley Cup champions and jusl how nasy il will be for Mario I.nrn ioux to regain his scoring title. 
Thosn were evident as the lnagun completed its first month this weekend with I.emim1x continuing his incredi­hln seoring binge and the Dnvils trying lo got llwmsnlves out of an narly-season funk. 
"ll's heen frustrating because we know how well wn can play. and il puts even more pressure on you," Nnal BrolHn said, after thn Dnvils hailed a four-game winlnss streak Saturday night with a 4-2 victory over Los Angnlns. 
Tlw ddending Stanley Cup champions had benn looking like anything hut champions of late. with lhren losses and a tie bnt'ore Saturday night. Their stock had droppnd considerably in llw Allanlie Division stand­ings, where they suddenly found thmnselves looking up. 
Two of lhe teams ahead of the Devils rated as early-season surprises -the Florida Pan­lhnrs and Washington Capitals, who were tind for first Sunday, ahead of defending division champion Philadelphia. Equally surprising was tho play of Florida's Scoll Mellanby, who was among the league leaders in goal-scoring. 
"We weren't playing with that same confidence that we played with at the end of last year and the beginning of this year," said Broten, whose team swept the Detroit Red Wings in the Stanley Cup finals last sea­son. "We started thinking things were going to come too easy. Then we stopped working hard and the next thing you know, we got inconsistent." 
Meanwhile, consistency is something that Mario the Magnificent hasn't had to worry about so far. Last week, Lemieux had a seven-point game, and Satmday night, he had two goals and two assists as the Pittsburgh Penguins beat the Philadelphia Flyers 7-4. 
That gave him 12 goals and 19 assists for a league-leading 31 points in only nine games. Not bad for someone who is making a comeback after sit­ting out a year for health rea­sons and who admittedly is not at full strength. 
Lemieux. a four-time scoring champion, has been held out of some games this season to con­serve his strength -he didn't play Friday night in a 3-3 tie at Buffalo. 
"It's always hard to watch on television, but I think it was the right decision," Lemieux said. 
Florida isn't the only ex­pansion team that has done well in the first month. The Ottawa Senators. the worst 

team in the NHL for three straight seasons, are off to their best start ever and were bunched with Pittsburgh, Montreal and Hartford in the tight Northeast Division race. 
The Senators' six victories were only three shy of the nine they managed in last season's lockout-shortened season and only eight away from their all­time best of 14 during the 1993-94 season. 
The Canadiens were the first team this season to fire their coach, when Jacques Demers was dismissed, along with gen­eral manager Serge Savard. The reason was an 0-5 start by the Canadiens. 
But they quickly turned things around under new coach Mario Tremblay. going on a six-game winning streak to move into the thick of the Northeast race behind the play of unheralded Brian Savage. Like the surprising Mellanby in Florida, Savage was among good company in Lemieux, Vancouver's Alexander Mogilny and Philadelphia's Eric Lindros in the goal-scoring race. 
The Calgary Flames didn't fare nearly as well as the Canadiens after firing their general manager, Doug Risebrough, after a 1-8-3 start. 
The San Jose Sharks had the dubious distinction of becoming the last team to win a game this season when they beat the struggling St. Louis Blues 7-3 Saturday night. 
Sakic, Avalanche obliterate Hawks 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
It's going to he tough for things to get any better for Joe Saki c. 
The Colorado center had two goals and three assists Sunday night as the Avalanche beat the Chicago Blackhawks 7-3 to extend their winning streak to a franchise-record eight games. 
"Once and a while, they're nice," Sakic said of his five­point performance that lifted his season totals to a team· leading 10 goals and 24 points. "It's great we've won eight in a row. But we're keeping level headed and going out and working hard every game. 
"I've never seen this fran.· chise play like this before," he said. ''The biggest thing is w~·re keeping the goals· against down and playing well defensively as a team" 
Chris Simon, Peter Forsberg, Valeri Kamensky, Curtis Leschyshyn and Claude Lemieux, who extended a per· sonal goal-scoring streak to five games, also connected for Colorado (10-3-1) which opened Us first-place lead in the NHL's Pacific Division to seven points over second·place Los Angeles. 
"When your best players are the best players on the ice, it's very satisfying," Colorado coach Marc Crawford said. 
"Tonight, Joe and Peter had special games." 
The Avalanche, who played in Quebec prior to the 1995-96 season, previously had won seven consecutive games four times. The Nordiques entered the NHL in 1979-80. 
"Although we're a young franchise, we're starting to build a little tradition," Craw­ford said. 
Joe Murphy, Eric Daze and Brent Grieve scored for the Blackhawks, who finally came to life after falling behind 5-1 and being outshot 26-7 after two periods. 
"We're supposed to be one of the best teams in the league," Blackhawks coach Craig Hartsburg said. "To lose 7-3 is totally embarrassing. Worse, we lost 7-3 at home and I didn't see anyone get mad. I'm not frustrated, I'm ticked off." 
Lemieux opened the scoring with a power-play goul at 8:10. He connected on a one.:timcr from the edge of crease after taking a pinpoint pass from Martin Rucinsky. 
Murphy's power-play goal at 
11:28 tied It 1-1. The Avalanche regained the lead, 2·1, at 14:16 on Simon's first goal of the season, set up by a quick pass from Sakic. 
Colorado outshot Chicago 14-1 in the second period and extended its lead to 5-1 after 40 minutes. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next~day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
.____N_o_T_I_c_Es_ ___.l  ILOST & FOUND I  THE STUDENT UNION BOARD IS ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR THE CAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT  3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE WALK TO NO GOOD AREA 2773097  you really should bring in your col­oring conlest entries soon. Like by Tuesday al noon. Remember, mys­ FALL FESTIVAL 1995 is lhis Saturday. November 11. Come join us and work with lhe  
COMMISSIONER, QUES­ tery prizes! Get lasl Friday's  residenls of the Northeasl  
For more mforma11on and assis­ LOST  TIONS???CALL 1·7757, OR STOP  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Observer and turn lo Accent!  Neighborhood. BARBECUE  
tance regarding the 1nves11galion of  PRESCRIPTION GLASSES  BY 201 LAFORTUNE FOR AN  HOME FOR  WILL FOLLOW. Vans begin  
financing, business opportunilies  gold frames w/ marble brown&black  APPLICATION  ND~SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  ELSIE'S PROMISE  leaving Main Circle at 9:00a.m.  
and work-at-home opportumlies,  around lens  TO CAMPUS.  Wed. Nov 8 Bridget's  and will return slarting at 12:00  
contact the Beller Business Bureau  x10782  need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273­ CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  p.m.  
ol Mich1ana, 52303 Emmons Rd ..  4569monique  PM  AuDITIONSiaUdltionsiAuDITIONSI  
SUite 9, South Bend, IN 46637­ ••••• LOST ....  & ASK FOR SANDY.  The Cavanaugh Hall Players  ()()() coffeEHouse ()()()  
4200; or call the BBB at 219/277­ SMALL GOLD HOOP  $35.000/YR. INCOME polential.  presenls:  Come lo lhe LaFun Ballroom  
9121 or 800/439·5313.  EARRING  Reading books. Toll Free 1-800­ Need 1 roommate now & 1 more  Later Life by A.A. Gurney  Wednesday nighl for SUB's  
CALL 3709  898-9778 Ext. R-2013 for delails.  nexl sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273·  Open audilions: 11/8 and 11/9  Open Mike. Enjoy munchies and  
Spnng Break Bahamas Party  2366  Time: 7-10 p.m.  java while lislening lo fellow  
CrUise! Early Spec1alsl 7 Days  LOST  BASKETBALL COACH responsible  Place: Cavanaugh Hall basement  studenls read lheir stuff.  
$2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6  A wood-bead anklet. If found.  . dependable, student/grad lo coach  6 BDRM HOME NEAR NO. NEXT  Questions or cannot attend call:  9-11pm. Nov. 8  
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife!  please call Becky al x3622.  5th-61h grade baskelball team Nov­ FALL.272-6306  Mark (4-1212) or Andrew (4-3584)  ()()() cOffeehOuse ()()()  
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15!  Feb for south side elementary  
 AuOITIONS!aUdilionsiAuDITIONS!  
Spnng Break Travel 1-800-678­6386 Spnng Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room  WANTED • ' ' FREE TRIPS & CASH • ' • Find out how hundreds of sludenls  school, located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Musl be avail­able for practice Mon-Thurs from 1 :30-2:30. Game schedule varies with games beginning after school  SUBLEASE Turtle Creek single call Dan 2732769 LFORSALE  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new· born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security.  ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love. Expenses paid. Call Margarel or  
With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best  are already earning FREE TRIPS  at 4:00, 5:00, or 6:00pm. Paid posi·  Hollywood Hills home has large  Peler at 800-529-8386.  
Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach  and LOTS OF CASH with  lion. Call291-4200 or 291·8731 to  NO Ski Team T·Shirtsl  back yard and loving dog. Call  
Hillon $1691 Prices Increase 11/21  America's #1 Spring ereak compa·  apply.  •• * •• * * • * • * * * * * * * *------------------­ 818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  Free ride home for holiday in  
& 12/t 51 1-800-678-6386  nyl Sell only 15 trips And travel free!  Really cool and only $10!  Confidential.  exchange for driving carlo  
Choose Cancun, Bahamas,  Wanted: Used MS-DOS Laptop 386  Call Potter@ 232-29551odaylll  Alb/Syr/Bgm area: 272·7959.  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  Mazallan, or Florida I CALL NOW!  or 296. Alonso 1-6982.  ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN  
Spec1alsl 111% Lowest Price  TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­ Great for you. your roomie, or  HEARING MORE??  Walch for the upcoming George  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From Soulh  EL (800)95-BREAK!  Wanted: Used MS-DOS Laptop 386  Christmas presenlsl  Warm, professional Indiana couple,  and the Freaks COli  
Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book  or 296. Alonso 1-6982.  lots of experience with children,  
Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks!  TRAVEL ABROAD AND WORK­ Elect guilar perfect cond $225 obo  would love lo lalk to you about what  I'm not schizofrenic. I'm  
Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ Make up lo $25-45/hr. teaching  BASS PLAYER WANTED  amp free 273·5380  we can offer your precious child.  ZITzofrenicll  
6386  basic conversational English in  call P. O'Connor-P.Cassidy  Slabilily, nurturing, love of learning,  
Japan, Taiwan. or S. Korea. No  2344205 2773201, Thanks  88 Toyota Tercel,68k. air,exl con.  travel, lots of extended family, and  Thanks to the 3 best roomies In the  
WEEKLY· MIDWAY TAVERN  teaching background or Asian lan­ $3000 firm.  full·lime mom are just some of lhe  world! My birthday was awesome!  
810W4TH MISH.  guages required. For information  Looking for ride! Oakbrk/W Chicago  277-3503  lhings that your child would experi­ Whal would I do with out you?  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30·9:30  call: (206)632-1146 ext. J55841  suburbs 11/11 &/or bac,k to ND  ence in our home. lnteresled in  You're lhe FIRST BEST room­ 
WED OPEN JAM 9 PM  11/12 Nicki x4803  100 Watt Fisher stereo syslem,  hearing more? CALL US (day or  mates a girl could ask fori.  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ Radio Shack Mach 1 speakers call  night). Expenses paid. Theresa &  
2BLKS S. OF 100 CTR 255-0458 NEED 10 WEEKLY MIDWAY TAVERN  Sludenls Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up lo $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transporationl Male or Female. No  .FOR RENT I L-HO_M_E_S-FO_R_R_E-NT_N_E_A_R-ND_ _.  Mary after 5 for delails, 272-4137 I TICKETS  Lee 1-800-600-8428. 000 THE COPY SHOP 00(;  Honey-I love you II You're cute! The wedas are tour in number.  
810W4TH MISH.  experience necessary. Call  232·2595  .  LaFortune Sludent Cenler  Random guy.  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30  (206)545-4155 extA55842  NEED 2 Navy GA'sll  We're open for your conveniencelll  
WED OPEN MIKE/JAM 9:00  call Martha al X4092  Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  We're driving down Mahalma  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  Roomale needed for 2nd sem.  THAT PRETIY PLACE. Bed and  Fri.: 7:30am· 7:00pm  Gandhi road.  
2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR  Male Grad. stu. pref. Nice 2br apl.  Breakfast Inn has space available  NAVY TIX NEEDED  Sat.: Noon-6:00pm  
255·0458 NEED ID  near campus $280/mo. 277·3107  for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ CALL x0733  Sun.: Noon-Midnighl  Any doubts?  
vate balhs. Localed in Middlebury,  (closed home football Saturdays)  ..  
Wanledll Individuals. Studenl Orgamzalions  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING -Seasonal & full-lime employment  30 miles from campus. 1-800·418· 9487  PERSONAL  Practice random acls of kindness and senseless acls of beauty.  
10 Promote  available at National Parks, Forests  0c0c0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0c0  
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  LAKE MICHIGAN LAKEFRONT  1-80 is darnn boring!!ll--which is  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yilt  Delores -lhanks so much for the  
FREE TRIPS  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  RENTAL ON SILVER BEACH, ST.  why I'd like some company when I  THE COPY SHOP  nice birthday card. You are the  
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­ N55842  JOSEPH, MI. NEWLY RENOVAT·  drive home lo Fairfield County  LaFortune Sludent Center  besl pel in lhe world.  
GRAMS  ED 2 BR HOUSE  Connecticut for Xmas .... if you're  Phone 631-COPY  
hllp:l/www.icpt.com  BEAUTIFUL SUNSETS-1/2 HR  interested and can drive stick call  0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0  Fartler?  
1 -800-327-6013  French couple (30 y. old) looking  FROM SO. BEND, CABLE TV,  Dave al4·1216 or 1~5323.  
for English lessons at our home lo  FULLY EQUIPPED, SLEEPS 6 TO  $5.50 HAIRCUT  JCPenney does il right.  
Traveling easl on Rt 80/Pa TP past  prepare GMAT. Good English, and  8. GREAT FOR HOME GAMES OR  Don't like herl? What's wrong with  VITO'S BARBER SHOP  
Susqu. River for xmas, I need a  notions of teaching required. Call  ALUMNI FUNCTIONS. (708)478­ her? She's beautiful, she's rich,  1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST  Federov, Kozlov, and Larionov are  
ride-Call Jared@ X0508  a.s.a.p. (219) 273·58-48 Granger.  0736  she's got huge ... tracts of land.  233·4767  the lo p line in professional hockey  


---------~------~~~------~--~·----------~--~-­
page 1~ 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
season. 
The win over the No. 4 Huskies also means that Notre Dame will have an even stronger chance of hosting the regional NCAA tournament games at Alumni Field. For now, the Irish will have next week off with a bye they have locked up with a 17-2-2 record, designating them as one of the top eight teams in the nation. Those tournament pairings will be announced this morning. 
In addition, the Big East tour­nament was only the latest in an increasingly longer line of solid performances. Against the Huskies, the Irish managed to get out in front first and never look back. Back in October when Connecticut dealt Notre Dame its first loss off the year, the Irish valiantly battled back from a slow start and forced the game to overtime. Yesterday, that was not the case. 
On Satu'rday, a similar case was made when Van Laecke's goal off a corner kick from mid­fielder Holly Manthei came with under ten minutes left in the first half. The Irish proceeded to score two more in the second half on goals from Gerardo and Manthei. Midfielder Cindy Daws registered an assist on Gerardo's goal. 
That triumvirate of Daws, Manthei and Gerardo also earned Big East post-season laurels as they were named to the first team. Gerardo also garnered rookie of the year honors after leading the confer­ence with 19 goals and 48 points. 
Notre Dame placed five more on the second team lead by se­niors Michelle McCarthy and Scharff. The graduating duo was joined by Renola, Sobrero and freshman midfielder Shan­non Boxx. 
Available for Summer Research on Topics Dealin with International Studies 
Informational Meeting Monday, November 6, 1995 4:15p.m. DeBartolo 120 
Sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 216 Hesburgh Center Phone: 631-6580 


The Observer • SPORTS 
3 On 3 Basketball ournament 
Monday, November 6, 1995 

Graf allegedly abused 
Associated Press Spiegel said that before 
Schmidt saw the kick, he had 
FRANKFURT, Germany not taken Peter Graf seriously 
Steffi Graf's father, who is when the father would come jailed on allegations of evading down from the hotel room and taxes on the tennis champion's say, "I've just now smacked earnings, allegedly beat and her." kicked her during training, Der The magazine quoted Spiegel magazine said Sunday. Schmidt as saying that when he 
saw the kick, he warned Peter 
Quoting a former close asso­Graf, "You'll only do that one ciate of the Graf family, Horst time." Schmidt was quoted as Schmidt, Spiegel said the 57-saying he never again wit­year-old Peter Graf "treated nessed Graf striking his daugh­her like a dog" when they were ter. once at a training camp in Efforts were unsuccessful to Spain. reach Steffi Graf, who is in New 
In one incident, Spiegel quot­York where she has an apart­
ed Schmidt as saying Graf ment and where she will play kicked his daughter when she in the WT A Tour Champi­dropped something and was onships beginning Nov. 13. 
kneeling down to pick it up. 
Spiegel said that Schmidt had According to Spiegel, Schmidt told his story to tax fraud inves­told investigators he did not tigators Aug. 21, almost two break off his connection with weeks after Graf was arrested the Graf family because he on the grounds that he was wanted to protect the tennis likely to flee prosecution. player. 
GOFARINTHE AIR FORCE.
~~~ 
...~ Learn how far the Air Force Can take V you. If you're a college graduate. you may qualify for Air Force Officer Training 
School. After completing Officer Training School. you can become a commissioned Air Force officer with: 
•great 
starting pay 

•medical 
and dental care 

•30 
days vacation with pay per year 


•management opportunities Go far in a career as an Air Force officer. Call: 
AIR FORCE OPPORTUNITIES TOLL FREE 
1-800-423-USAF 
~r~ ~1~
'~~~ 
The E & J Gallo Winery 
Management Development Program 
An accelerated program designed to provide in-depth knowledge of sales and marketing management. Participants achieve assignments in areas such as: 
• 
Field Marketing Management -(Winery field consultants responsible for developing sales and marketing strategies) 

• 
National Account Management -(Senior sales specialists responsible for maximizing the sales of Winery products through national retail chains) 

• 
Sales Management & General Management -(Management professionals responsible for the overall operation ofdistributor sales organizations) 


...just to name a few 
Please accept our invitation to attend an informational presentation. We will further explain the Management Development Program and answer any questions that you may have. 
The presentation details: 
Date: November 7, 1995 
Time: 6:30pm 
Location: Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room 
Attire: Casual 
All majors welcome Sponsored by The Notre Dame Marketing Club 

Monday, November 6 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
Riley, Mourning make immediate impact in Miami 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

The fanfare that accompa­nied Alonzo Mourning's arrival in Miami failed to reach the sandwich shop where he had lunch prior to his first game with the Heat. 
"A couple of people asked me if I played basketball," Mourning said with a smile. "I said, 'Sometimes.' " 
Not everyone in Miami has lleat fever, but it's spreading. A capaeity crowd of 15.200 chnered as Mourning and coach Pat Hiley made successful debuts Saturday night with the Heat, who beat Cleveland 85­
71. 
The final 2,000. tickets were sold after Riley swung a six­player trade Friday to acquire Mourning from the Charlotte Hornets. The new coach and new center received standing ovations when introduced before the game. 
"These nights just make you feel alive," Riley said. 
Mourning played 33 minutes even though he knew only a few plays. The two-time All­Star scored 15 points and blocked five shots, but he also had six turnovers, committed live fouls and shot an air ball. 
''I'm a little disappointed in the way I played," he said. "But it's going to come." 

Mourning made an im­mediate impact on the Heat's defense, which tied a team record by allowing only 71 points -24 in the second half. Cleveland's centers scored eight points. 
Last season, the Heat ranked 16th in defense in the NBA, allowing 102.8 points per game. 
"They are going to be a good team with Mourning in there," Cavaliers forward Tyrone Hill said. "They're a whole lot tougher." 
Credit Riley too. He used aggressive, in-your-face defense to make the New York Knicks title contenders, and it looks as though Miami will play the same way. 
Heat rookie Sasha Danilovic traded blows with Cleveland's Chris Mills in the fourth quar­ter, and both were ejected. Danilovic needed 12 stitches in his face and mouth but made a point: The Heat (32-50 last sea­son) no longer will be shoved around. 
"The key to our success is going to be defense," Mourning said. "We have enough young legs and young bodies that we should be able to move well so we can double-team and trap." 
As for offense, Mourning fig­ures he'll provide a decoy. He had only one assist against the Cavaliers, but he plans to draw a crowd of defenders, then feed 


You are not a ntooch. But when a hole in your pocket renders you changeless, you r e l u c t a n t l y call the folks collect. You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. 
~ 

Your pangs of guilt are minimal. 
I 800 CALL ATT always costs less than 1-soo-cou.ECT: 
Always works li·om 1111~· phone. And aiWIIYS gets you the l'ctiahle ,XIll:il' Network. fist• it 11'/lt!lll'l'l'l' .)'011'1"<' qfj" CllllljJitS. 
Know the Code. 1 BOO CALL ATT. That's Your lt'ue Choice:M 

AT&T 

Your True Choice 
• For interstate call& Promotions excluded. 

1-800-COll.ECl" is a registered tmdemark of MCI. ~ 1995 A'J&T 
the ball to Danilovic, Billy Owens and Kevin Willis. 
"The guys are going to get a lot of layups coming down the middle," Mourning said. "If we take our time, we'll be playing H-0-H-S-E because of all the double-and triple-teams." 
The next game is Wednesday against Houston and Hakeem Olajuwon, giving Mourning three days to become acquaint­ed with Hiley's thick playbook. But Mourning said he already has learned enough about the Heat to know where this season is headed. 
"To the playoffs, no ques­tion," he said. "We're going to be a team to be reckoned with." 

Irish 
continued from page 20 
"We are looking to balance the offense better," Brown said. "At the beginning of the season, most of our sets went to the outside, but now we are mixing it up better." 
And that seemed to be the game plan. Lee led the team with 15 kills, but it was Jenny Birkner coming up big throughout the match. Birkner hit the game winner in the third to clinch the victory for the Irish. 
The Irish improved their Big East record to 9-0 and their overall record to 22-5. Notre Dame plays number 1 Nebraska on Tuesday night in Nebraska. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 6, 1995 


Raiders prove they are among elite, 49ers continue slide 

Counesy of Notre Dame Spans Information Former Notre Dame flanker and Heisman Trophy winner Tim Brown scored a touchdown in Oakland's defeat of Cincinnati. 
By jOE KAY 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
The Oakland Raiders weren't brilliant or flashy, just brutally effective. 
The Raiders' punishing defense kept the Cincinnati Bengals out of the end zone until the closing seconds and Harvey Williams rushed for 134 yards and a touchdown Sunday as Oakland ground out a 20-17 victory. 
Oakland (7-2) got the game in hand early by running over Cincinnati's front line, and stayed ahead by disrupting the NFL's top-ranked passing attack. 
Jeff Blake. operating behind an injury-ravaged front line, was sacked four times and completed 16 of 31 for a sea­son-low 159 yards. Pat Swilling had three of the Raiders' sacks and Terry McDaniel intercepted Blake on consecutive passes in the second quarter. 
Blake's 4-yard pass to Carl Pickens with 3 5 seconds left and his option run on the 2­point conversion moved Cincinnati (3-6) within a field goal, but Derrick Fenner recov­ered the onside kick to end it. 
Jeff Hostetler, recovered from a throat injury suffered two weeks ago, completed 17 of 29 for 178 yards and spent most of the afternoon handing off. The Raiders came out determined to run against a defense missing its leading tackler, middle line­backer Steve Tovar. 
Run they did. Williams had 73 on 13 carries in the first half alone -a bulky 5.6-yard aver­age. He carried five times for 31 yards in a 57-yard drive capped by is 2-yard touchdown run up the middle late in the Carolina (4-5) surpassed the first quarter. previous high for an expansion 

The Raiders took control a club with its fourth straight vic­few minutes later when Rob tory and is by no means out of Holmberg deflected Lee John­playoff contention in the NFC son's punt, which rolled 17 West. yards to the Bengals' 43. Two plays later, cornerback Corey San Francisco (5-4). which Sawyer stepped in front of a faces Dallas next week, was pass for Tim Brown but failed again without Steve Young. He to make the interception. missed a third straight game Brown took the throw knee­because of his· still healing high, bobbled it, headed bruised passing shoulder. upfield, sidestepped safety 
Darryl Williams and went 34 ,...---------::::=------:--;----::=:--:--::~:--:~ 
yards untouched for a 14-0 le~~ff Jaeger added a 37-yard field goal as time ran out in the half, and essentially clinched it 
with a 46-yarder with 2:46 remaining. The Raiders simply ran the ball for most of the sec­ond half to protect their lead. 
Oakland had worried about how its banged-up secondary would fare against Blake's deep passing. Joe King made his first start for the Raiders in place of 
injured free safety Eddie 
Anderson, and safety Derrick Hoskins and cornerbacks Albert Lewis and James Trapp were limited by injuries. 
Panthers 13, 49ers 7 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Call it what you want ­shocking, stunning, or incon­ceivable -but you'd better believe it. 
Carolina became the first expansion club in its inaugural season to win four games and defeat a defending Super Bowl champion, downing the San Francisco 49ers, 13-7 Sunday. 
In the end, the 49ers were without their top two quarter­backs and committed five turnovers. Three occurred in­side the Carolina 10, including Tim McKyer's 96-yard intercep­tion return for a touchdown. 
Business Data Services, Inc. (BDS) is a leading client/server systems development firm looking for· 

top quality students to join our team in any of our four office locations in Connecticut, Illinois, New York or Virginia. 
BDS provides a comprehensive training program. We offer the opportunity to work in the latest and most exciting tools and technologies; UNIX, Windows NT, PowerBuilder,Visual Basic, C/C++, TCPIIP, Oracle, Sybase, 
lnformix, etc.  You will be working along side the best technical talent in the  
industry.  
If you are self-motivated person, looking for an  
exciting challenge as a Programmer/Analyst and  
graduating with Computer Science, MIS or related  



degrees, Information Session, Nov. 7 at 6:30 p.m. in the Main Lounge, University Club. On-campus interviews will be held on November 10 
BDS 

------~.-----­
Business Data Services 
Corporate Address 78 Eastern Boulevard, Glastonbury, CT 06033 
Elvis Grbac went down with an apparent knee injury late in the fourth quarter, and 49ers were left with third-stringer Cary Conklin leading them on a last-ditch drive that fell far short. 
Shut down by Carolina's defense and their own mistakes for three quarters, the 49ers fi­nally scored on Derek Laville's 1-yard run with 13:43 remain­ing. 
#fJit& ~PRING 
BREAK 
.., ~ ~ 
It • ~ ~ 
~ C 
$50990 
_. ~ • 8 Days/7 Nites Air, Hotel, -~ & More... From Chicago ~ t:l:l 
, t:l:l FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: 
a.C 
ERIC HYLLENGREN AT 634-1157 OR
~ 
• 

BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS AT 
~ ;::;:: ........... 1-800-875-4525 
It • U~ 
~
cC 
~ 
'"""' •PAATxtS t.Vi.R\' HXT£!! 10:30PM-3:00AM• OPEN BAR AT ntE BEST ~UFS ON ntE PLANET!!
'96 GO LOCO IN ACAPULCO!! 


Monday, November 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MeN's SoccER 
Irish close with mixed results 

By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writer 

A long and taxing season came to an end for the Notre Dame men's soccer team this weekend, as the Irish split a pair of games to close the year out with a 9-10 record. 
At times brilliant and on other occasions dismal, the young Irish squad had its fair share of ups and downs in their inaugural season in the Big East conference. Never com­pletely free from injuries and lacking in depth and ex­perience, the Irish concluded their first Big East season with
Senior Bill Lanza had 3 assists in the Irish's 4-1 victory over Big East rival Villanova. 
a 4-7 record in conference play. 
R E S E R V E OFFICERS' TRAINING C 0 R P S 
Perhaps this weekend can be seen as a microcosm of the Irish's season. 
It had all the elements that went into this season, including an inconsistent offense and rel­ative ineptitude on the road, along with a brilliant perfor­mance from senior Bill Lanza. 
After playing a solid game at Alumni Field on Friday night in securing a 4-1 victory over Big East rival Villanova, as well as head coach Mike Berticelli's 250th career win, the Irish dropped a 3-0 game to #9 Wisconsin in front of 517 hearty Cheeseheads. 
With their season-ending shutout at the hands of the Badgers, the Irish finished with a 1-7 mark on the road, anum­ber which looks very ugly when compared with their 8-3 mark at home. The Irish were shut out iust five times this season, with four of those shutouts coming away from home. 
To their credit, the Irish made the most of their last two games, which were played with the knowledge that there would be no Big East tournament in their immediate future. 
On a brutally cold night, the Irish used four second half goals to dash Villanova's own tournament hopes, putting on a clinic in ball control in the pro­cess. 
The oft-injured but ever-dan­gerous Lanza recorded three 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Late Night Olympics Steering Committee~ Rec Sports is looking for some enthusiastic students who would be interested in help­ing to plan this all-night sports extravaganza . As in the past, all funds raised from LNO will go benefit Special Olympics. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's student who is interested should calll-8237. 
Basketball Officials· Needed for INterhall and Grad!Fac/Staff Games. Pays $8.50 a game. If you are cur· rently a Co-Ree official and would like to do other Basketball leagues, please call 631-6100 and ask for Mark. 
assists in the match. and four different Irish players regis­tered goals as the Irish outshot the Wildcats by an 18-12 mar­gin. 
"This was a great win for us," commented Chris Mathis, who scored the Irish's first goal. "We wanted to win our last Big East game, and we wanted to win for eoach (IJerticelli)." 
The win would be the final victory of the season for the Irish, and the 9 victories on the season enabled Berticelli to record number 250 in his il­lustrious career. The historic win came in Berticelli's sixth season at Notre Dame. 
"I was proud with the way our team played this evening," said an emotional Berticelli fol­lowing the game. "We showed a lot of class and played with a great deal of intensity and heart." 
While they were able to play the role of spoiler against the upstart Wildcats on Friday night, the Irish couldn't manage to pull off an upset against the mighty Badgers, who outshot the Irish by a lopsided 18-6 margin. 
The Badgers used a pair of first half goals from senior Bryan Grimm to help secure a 3-0 win over the outmanned Irish squad, who have been held scoreless in their last three games away from the friendly confines of Alumni Field. 
Women's Lacrosse-Practice will be in Loftus on Nov. 13 and 15 !'rom 9-lOpm. These will be our last practices for the semester. Any questions? Call Alison at 239-7924. 
Fall Ball Classic-RecSports and Student Activities are co­sponsoring this 3 on 3 basket· ball tournament which will be held November 7 and 8. The entry fee is $6.00 and the deadline is November 6. Space Is limited and there are men's and women's divisions. Varsity basketball players are' ineligible. Register in ndvanee at RecSports or LaFortune Gorch Game Hoom. 


Your Uncle Sam. Every year A:Imy fees. They even pay a flat rate for text­ROTC awards scholarships to hundreds books and supplies. You can also receive of talented students. If you qualify, 
an allowance of up to $1500 each these merit-based scholarships can school year the scholarship is in help you pay tuition and educational effect. Find out today if you qualify 
ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN Tm. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 


RAL ROLLERBLADE SKATES. 
• UNREAL PRICE.
, 
(\ 
......... 
~~ "'·,~,~ 
,.,.,. 
'?,, '----­
~ 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
leers show improvement but still fall short to Western Michigan 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
One step forward. One step backward. 
The Western Michigan hock­ey team expected a cake walk this weekend. After all, they were 4-2 and the CCHA's high-. est scoring team, while Notre Dame ranked last in the league in defense and had lost four consecutive games. 
Well, they were only half right. On Friday night at the Joyce Center, the Irish gave the Broncos everything they could handle, stretching the CCHA power to the limit like they never imagined. Despite a strong effort, the Irish lost the battle and the game 3-2, and the disappointment carried over to a 6-2 loss on Saturday night. 
After giving up 26 goals in their previous four games, the Irish entered Friday night's contest in search of consistency 
. at the defensive end. They responded with a solid perfor­mance, giving up just three goals to a squad that averaged 
6.17 per contest. 
"While we did have some mental breakdowns, there is no question that we competed much better against a good team," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "There is no com­parison between the way we played against them and Boston College last weekend." 
After falling behind 1-0 late in the second period, freshman Brian Urick responded the way he has all season. The team's leader in goals and overall points sailed the puck past Bronco goaltender Marc Magilarditi to knot the game at one with 1:32 left in the period. 
"He (Urick) is playing really well for us at a position where we need production," said Poulin. "We knew that he was a talented player coming in, but he has come on for us even quicker than we imagined." 
The Broncos gained a 2-1 ad­vantage when center Jamal Mayers found the Irish net with just two seconds remaining in the period. After Western Michigan right wing Shawn Zimmerman extended the ad­vantage to 3-1 early in the third period, the Irish cut the lead in half with just 1:13 remaining in the g(lme. 
Not to be outdone by Urick, freshmen Aniket Dhadphale and Craig Hagkull teamed up to give Notre Dame a chance for victory. Dhadphale received a pass from Hagkull in front of the net and powered the puck past Magilarditi for his third goal of the season. 
"The freshmen as a whole have been great for us this sea­son," said captain Brett Bruininks. "They have worked hard in practice from the first day, and that has translated into some success so far this season." 

The Broncos held on to win the game 3-2 and seemed to build on the success Saturday night back at home. They bolt­ed to an early 4-0 lead and never looked back. 
The Irish broke into the scor­ing column in the second period when junior right wing Tim Harberts snapped a scoring drought with his second goal of the season. Senior center Jaimie Ling and sophomore defenseman Justin Theel each tallied an assist on the play. 
After WMU extended their lead to 5-1, Irish right wing Jamie Morshead responded with his second goal of the year off a pass from center Jay Matushak. The score cut the lead to 5-2. but the Broncos and Millar closed the door on the Irish with a late goal to secure the 6-2 victory . 
"We played probably our best game of the season on Friday, so it was disappointing to lose the way we did after that," said Bruininks. "But we'll just keep on working and be patient, and eventually we'll get to the point where we can put together back to back good games." 
With a 1-7 record, the Irish can't afford to be too patient. 
Please Recycle The Observer 




The Observer/Brian Murphy 
Freshman Brian Urick 1s making an immediate impact, scoring a goal in a 3-2 loss to Western Michigan. 
~(~J..IJII (~f)J..IJIIN 
Beta Alpha Psi Regional Directors will meet with the Executive Committee tomorrow at 4:15p.m. in 203 COBA. 
Beta Alpha Psi will meet Wednesday at 
6:00 p.m. for a post-recruiting social event at Coaches. Free food and soft drinks for all members! 
Clubs•.. 
Use this space for free! Contact the CCC now! 
Members••• 
Watch for announcements at the beginning of each week in The Observer. 
This seroice is provided for you by the Club Coordination Council. 6314078 206 LaFortune 
IRISH

LaFortune Student Center 
EXPRESS HOURS
(219)631-8128 
-~ 
• 
Wed. Nov 8 12-6 pm Thut Nov 9 12 -8 pm Fri. Nov 10 12-6pm 

The place to go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sports"VVear & accessories! 
'Ne Accept both Visa, Master Card and Discover 
Monday, November 6, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of binh, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 

NoNSENSE.T 1~l 1\~A._ tJoNE  IN~·!>  fl  
Of T~o~•s \Pol.~<  (Y\f''I1E<2'  
Ae,oo.-\:>M'-"· · ·  CIINVC.II-~ 0 "\  
CAN!.r G>.E.T  
1\ l:>P<rE. ?.'  
\  
CALVIN AND HOBBES  
I  WOt-IDER HOW LONG-liS  '+HL, f..CTUf\W  ITS l'ROBP..Bl'i  
BEEN 'SINCE.  r lf\51 LOOKED  &EN.  ONL'i  40 t-\lt-\U1t.'S.  
f..I  1\-\£. CLCK\::..  MM~E.  l'Ll G\l~S'S 1-\f>-L't  ~1\1 1-\~\lR  
IT's SEEN  P.N \-\OUR .  lD ~  Sf>-FE.  

DILBERT 
Wt.'RE 141\VlNG 
AN 150 9000 AUDIT THI.5 
WEEK 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Recede 31 Cappuccino
1 Colorado flavorSprings !nits. 
35 Mild cigars 1 Thespian 37 Spy novelist 10 Poi source 

Deighton 14 Sport on 
31t Stimpy's pal 

horseback 
40 Dickens novel 11 Queen of-­
44 Hwy. 18 Preowned 
45Gab 17--En-lai 48 Hollywood 18 "The Crucible" hound 
locale 47 Items counted 1e Like a piper of 
in a roll call yore so Stephen of "The Crying Game" 
20 Lord's Prayer phrase 52 Carries 
23F.A.O. 
53 Seance sound 

Schwarz goods ssCateau-­24 Kuwaiti export 57 50's sitcom 25 "The Sound of 
83Soup pod MUSIC" setting 114 Pawnee home 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:i.iiiil-:~~ -:-+.=~-E-1 
:1 
0 
<.l 
0
.. 
@) 
Ul 
:1.. 
..0 
.... 
.... 
0 
<.l 
Ul 
TA.I<..E. A LOOK AT YOUR DOC..Ut"\ENTED J"'O{) 
DESCRIPTIONS AND 
f"\f>.KE. SURE. THAi IT'S Wl-\1\T 'YOU'RE. DOING 
IF THE. AUDITOR 1\SKS. 
cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Keep the home fires burning. Loved ones are your strongest allies. The pace of business will pick up early in 1996. Weigh your choices care­fully. Although an older or more experienced person offers valuable advice, the final decision is yours. Heed your intuition. Wise invest­ments will give you a new sense of security. Go slow in romance. Be candid if you are not yet ready to make that pennanent commitment. CELEBRITIES BORN ON

ITS GOII'I.G 
THIS DAY: actress Sally Field, 
broadcast journalist Maria Shriver,

It 13~"' 
director Mike Nichols, musician \)(>..'{ 
'jt;_~ B.r>-~ 
Glen Frey. ARIES (March 21-April 19): '/ 
Temper your comments with kind­ness when dealing with older peo­pie. A discussion regarding tax and insurance matters is unavoidable. Cherished business goals can be advanced. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The financial outlook is bright for those fonning new alliances. Select panners and associates with greater care. A business venture owned by a married couple flourishes! 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Ignore someone's doubts and suspi-
SCOIT ADAMS 
cions while looking for ways to change negative attitudes. Your ere-alive output will earn you compli-

A-CCORDING TO 
ments and extra cash. Emphasize 
peace of mind this evening. CANCER (June 21-July 22): 

THI5 I'/"'\ SQ/"\[ 
SORT OF 
Tensions could arise at work today. Do not reveal your irritation by

ENGINEER. 
making sarcastic comments. A posi­tive, good-natured approach will
f>.'S U WE'D 
help you win allies and influence people.
HAVE. Tli"\E. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): The imponance of making a fresh start motivates you to think logically and 
FOR l"Ht>.T ... 
~ 
responsibly. You stand to gain in tenns of both money and pleasure. 
• OF INTEREST 
Fall Festival 1995: Sign-ups for the November 11 Festival are in the dining halls today and tomorrow. Students are encouraged to contribute by raking leaves and planting tulips with the residents of the Northeast Neighborhood. A barbecue follows the activities. J<or more information, contact Anne DuBay at 4-4868. 
• 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North South 
Grilled Ham and Cheese Meatloaf Turkey Steak Clam Strips Beef and Onion Pizza Linguine with Pesto 
Saint Mary's 
Beef Stroganoff Vegetable Kabobs Grilled Ham Steak 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
Be more assenive in group discus­sions. 
\lRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The overall impression you give now is one of ability, enthusiasm and opti­mism. Take steps to funher polish your image. Eliminate the word "impossible" from your vocabulary. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It may be difficult to keep your mind on your work today, unless you real­ly love what you do. Creative types will enjoy the fruits of their labor. A romantic breakthrough is possible this evening. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The excitement of launching a new business or embarking on a new romance is revitalizing. Widen your social circle to include an interesting and attractive neighbor. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): If your vitality is fizzling, get more rest. Burning the candle at both ends will wear you down. Mat­ters involving your family or finances require immediate allen­tion. New initiatives are stressed. Travel may be necessary. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Have greater faith. Better days lie just ahead! Romance could once again enter your life. Do not neglect work for fun. Offer your loved ones encouragement, not criticism. They can find the latter elsewhere! 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make "home, sweet home" your mono today. Devote extra attention to family members, embracing the role of peacemaker if tempers flare. An unhappy child will flourish if taken under your wing. Seek expen advice . 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Rumors abound! Refuse to repeat them. Empathize with someone who is upset but avoid taking sides in office disputes. Honesty clears the air in romance. You need to know who you can count on. 

... 
-
.. 
IIPapal name 87 Billboard aa"FTroop" 
corporal n Miss Fitzgerald 70 Tournament 
hotshot 71 Rudolph's master 72 False coin 
DOWN 
1-symbol (bar code) 2 Manhattan district :I Baseball's Matty or Molses 4 Like F.D.R.'s Presidency 1 Test, as ore 8 Patio furniture item 7 Show's partner 8 Follow orders 
• Stallone role 
1.0 Elvis's birthplace 11 Part of SEATO 
12 Marsh plant 13 Preternatural 21 "--Believe In 
Magic" (1965 
hit) 22 Edge 21 Squirrel's snack 28 Popeye's foe 27 Exposes 21 Pianist Eubie 30 Puccini's "Un 
-dl" 


32 Procter & Gamble toothpaste 
33 Ice star Sonja 34 Bolivian range 38 Boar's abode 38 Gridiron grp. 41 Mideast in its. 42 Proportion 43 Carbon 14 and 
others 480nwhlch a gofer goes 

• 
--·~ ---------------------~-----­
Navy fu01bles away chance for upset 


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, November 6, 1995 


Irish avenge early season loss to Connecticut to clinch Big East crown 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Spores Editor 
Lately, Amy Van Laecke has been there. 
Before, she was always there in the defensive backfield, doing the little things in a reserve role. 
Now, after a switch to the forward position, she's been there again. Still playing the same defense that earned her a starting spot, but with a new dimension. 
That dimension includes posing an offensive threat which Van Laecke proved to be again this weekend as the Notre Dame women's soccer claimed its first Big East tournament with a 1-0 victory over regular season champion Connecticut. 
Van Laecke was there to score the lone goal after freshman forward Monica Gerardo fired a 
• WoMEN's Soccen 

First Impressions 
shot from 20 yards out on the right side that UConn keeper Sioban Harold saved but was un­able to control. With the rebound out in front, Van Laecke rocketed a four yarder past Harold at the 17:08 mark in the first half. 

In being there, Van Laecke also tallied the game winning goal against Rutgers on Saturday as the Irish prevailed 3-0. 
It only seemed appropriate that the Big East officials were then there to name the native of Granger, Indiana the Tournament's Most Outstanding Performer. For Van Laecke, the winning goal against Connecticut marked her eighth goal in nine games. 
Irish goalie Jen Renola registered seven saves in the victory as Connecticut outshot Notre Dame 13-8, but could not solve the tenacious Irish defense or its goalie. Shutting out one of the quickest offenses among the collegiate ranks is only something the Irish can build on heading into the NCAA tournament. 
Senior Ashley Scharff, junior Kate Fisher and sophomore Kate Sobrero anchor a defense that has now been responsible for 14 shutouts this 
see SOCCER I page 14 
; 
• VOLlEYBAll 

Irish continue to dominate 
Prepare for match with top-ranked Cornhuskers 
By MICHAEL THOMPSON ers on the team. Contributing a score of 15-11. In the second Spons Writer heavily in the kill's department and third, it was 15-8 and 15-5 were Kristina Ervin and Angie as the Irish defense improved 
-
It was raining kills Friday Harris with 11 and 14, respec­and the Huskies' offense tired. night as the Notre Dame volley­tively. On the defensive side of ball team trounced the Red the net, Jenny Birkner led the Over the course of this week­
Storm of St. Johns University in team with 13 digs, and Lindsay end, the Irish looked back to the Joyce Center. From the on­Treadwell threw down 6 shots form. "We've been working a slaught the Red Storm seemed leading the team in blocks.~ lot on defense. I think that was to be nothing but a mere driz­really our downfall on fall zle, and the Irish came Sunday afternoon brought break," commented head coach equipped with their rain gear. with it a team from UCONN that Debbie Brown. And the defense was ready for the Irish attack. was definitely present. The As usual with Big East The Huskies came determined frustrated Huskies had serious
• competition, it took the Irish to vie for the conference title, trouble getting any shots only three games to finish off but one thing stood well in their through the combination of their opponent. The first game way. With WNDU on hand for Jaimie Lee and Lindsay was a shut-out with the Irish the event, the aura in the Joyce Treadwell at the net. Lee and winning 15-0. The second and center was so thick, you almost Harris, the usual offensive third games were a little closer needed a knife to cut through it. threat, led the team defensively with victories of 15-6 and 15-4. Notre Dame couldn't lose ... and yesterday, recording 16 and 12 The games, however, including they didn't. digs respectively, while Jen the first one, were not as close Led by the attack of Angie Briggs led all blockers with six as the scores suggest. Harris, Jaimie Lee, and Jenny put downs. 
Birkner, the Irish were just too The match was highlighted by much for the Huskies. The first see IRISH I page 15
contributions from all the play-game was taken by the Irish by 

Football Women's Soccer 
at Air Force NCAA tournament. 

.. November 18, Time TBA Time & Dare TBA 
SPORTS 
Volleyball Saint Mary's Swimming 
at Nebraska November 7, 7 p.m. 
at Calvin November 11
at a 
Hockey Men's Basketball 

at Illinois-Chicago November 10, 7 p.m. 
vs. Australian National Team November 9, 7:30pm.
GLANCE: 


• Men's soccer season ends 
see page 17 

•  Hockey team continues to struggle  
see page 18  
•  Panthers upset 49ers  
see page 15  





