
Friday, March 3, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 99 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Race team to roar in Phoenix 
By SEAN O'CONNOR News Writt•r 
The Indy-style electrically powered race car of the Notre Damn Irish Haeing Team will clash with cars from four other sehools this Sunday in Phoenix at Firebird International Hace­way. 
The 80-kilometer race will eap off a weekend of competi­tion which begins today with the qualifying and continues into Saturday with the heat races. The main event will lire up Sunday at 1:45 p.m., when Notre Dame's car faces com­petitors from Arizona State and Bowling Green State Universities, the University of Arizona, and Carl Hayden High Sehoul of Photmix. · 
The team hopes to eontinue its racing sueeess, following up a first-place finish over 11 op­ponents last July in the Cleve­land Eleetric Formula Classie. They took seeond behind Ohio State University in August in the Elnctricore Formula Light­ning Haee at Indianapolis Haceway Park. 
The Solar and Electric Haeing Association of Phoenix, with the cooperation of Arizona Power System, devel­oped an Indy-style race car in the summer of 1993 and began a program designed to further electric ear technology while providing learning expe­rienees to students. 
see RACE CAR I page 4 
• GRADUJUE STUOENT UNION 

GSU to create teaching award, study housing 
Dole, Hatfield 
cast deciding 
votes 
Hy DAVID ESPO Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate solemnly dealt defeat Thursday to the bal­anced-budgnt amnndment to tlw Constitution, cornerstone of a broader Hepubliean drive to rut spnnding and shrink gov­Prnment. Both sides sought po­litieal advantage in the residue of battle. 
The 65-35 vote left the amendment just shy of the rweded two-thirds majority, and followed Democratic accu­sations that the Hepublieans were threatening Soeial Secu­rity, a charge Majority Leader Bob Dole sharply denied. 
At the White I louse, President Clinton challenged GOP leaders in Congress to detail "how they are going to keep the promises of their 'Contract (With Amer­ica)' on balancing the budget and paying for their tax cuts." 
Fifty one Hepublicans and 14 
Democrats  voted  for  the  
amendment,  while  33  
Democrats  and  two  


. The Observer/Mike Ruma The Observer/Dave Tyler 
Student~ gathered at the F1eldhous.e Mall Y.esterday to protest th~ administration's decision to ban GLND/SMC from meeting at the University Counseling Center. Student Body V1ce Pres1dent Matt Orsagh, at nght, reads the Student Senate resolution supporting GLND/SMC. 



Faculty, students rally for GLND/SMC 
By DAVE TYLER William Kirk, assistant vice-president for official organization, "we recognize you, 
News Editor student affairs. Previous protests were not accept you, and love you." 
approved by Kirk's office. Mark Jordan, associate professor at the 
Over three hundred members of the Officials from Student Government Medieval Institute, also spoke and pointed Notre Dame community turned out yester­began a petition drive at the demonstra­out Notre Dame traditions that would be day afternoon for a rally in support of tion. Organizers announced that they hope subject to scrutiny if the administration Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and to use the signed petitions for an adver­used the same criteria it used to judge Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC). tisement in The Observer declaring sup­GLND/SMC. 
Faculty, staff and students stood in port for the cause of GLND/SMC. "If the university cracked down on Fieldhouse Mall listening to speeches and Student Body President and Vice­everything they found to be against readings from an assortment of speakers, President Dave Hungeling and Matt Catholic Teaching, SYH's and a dozen and called on the administration to recog­Orsagh read petitions from the Campus other student activities would be shut nize GLND/SMC. The rally, which lasted Life Council and Student Senate, which down this afternoon," he said. about forty minutes, was sponsored by two condemned the administration's action in John Blandford, co-chair of GLND/SMC, students, senior Roberto Guerra, and barring GLND/SMC from meeting in the addressed the assembly and thanked the junior Faye Kolly, leaders in the campus University Counseling Center as a group. Notre Dame community for its support chapter of Amnesty International. The Hungeling noted that while the adminstra­during the past weeks. "When I decided to rally was given official approval by tion may not recognize GLND/SMC as an 
seeRALLY/ page 4 
Republicans -Mark Hatfield of Oregon and Dole -voted no. 
Dole is a firm supporter. His vote -which left the amend­ment's supporters two votes short of victory -was cast solely to place him on the pre­vailing side, a parliamentary maneuver to keep the political­ly popular amendment alive for another possible vote during the 1996 election season. 
"Let 'em try," Democratic leader Tom Daschle said defi-
APNJm. J. Castello antly a few hours before the vote. By opposing the amend­ment, he said, Democrats were saving Social Security trust funds from deficit cutters. 
The amendment is designed to end the run-up in red ink that has the national debt ap­proaching $5 trillion. It calls for a balanced budget beginning in the year 2002, unless three­fifths of both houses vote oth­erwise. Social Security aside, 
see SENATEl page 4 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 

The Graduate Student Union, the primary representative body of Notre Dame graduate students, decided to address family student housing in its report to the Board of Trustees and created a teaching award for graduate students in its meeting last Wednesday. 
The GSU approved plans to form a report entitled, "The Status of Family Student Housing for Graduate Stu­dents," with emphasis on University Village, according to GSU President Ed Wingenbach. 
University Village, the resi­dence complex administered by the University for students with families living with them, has been plagued with problems, Wingenbach said, including mildew especially prevalent on windows and leaky ceilings. 
Perceiving a prevalent atti­tude on campus that graduate students that teach are sub­par, the GSU created and approved funding for a gradu­ate student teaching award. 
"We've been trying to push the fact that graduate student teachers can be, and usually are, excellent teachers," Win­genbach said, "and we made this award to recognize their accomplishments." Two eash awards of $100 will be given to graduate students, one who teaches a class independent of any other faculty, and another for a teaching assistant. 
A resolution was proposed to the GSU by graduate student Michael Sheliga to reproach The Observer for declining to publish an advertisement he submitted. It was defeated 8-7, with two abstentions. 
The ad criticized Jhe Ob­server and News Editor Dave Tyler for an Inside Column that Tyler wrote regarding violence at abortion clinics. The resolu­tion, however, focused on The Observer's returning the ad to him unprinted. 
Arguments against the reso­lution stated at t.){e meeting in­cluded a hesitancy to encour­age or demand defining editori­al policy of The Observer. Some members did not feel it was proper to make a personal attack in the ad. 
Others felt that the resolution was simply badly written. 
--------------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, March 3, l ~CJ) 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Barbie is not a realistic 
career goal 
I just had my first job interview ever the other day. It was hell. Pure hell. You know they were up late the night before, giggling in obscene plea­sure at the curve balls they were going to throw me. 
"If you could be any type of cookie you wanted, what would it be and why?" 
Uh, if I say Fig Newton, is that bad? "You're on a plane that's been hijacked over Hoboken. What do you do?" Uh, ask if they'd consider stopping for bagels? 
"What's the square root of 576?" 
Uh, can I come back to you on that one? 
Those were the easy ones. Then they threw me the clincher. "Tell us about your direction in life." Direction in life? You want me to have one 
of those now. like today? Maybe I missed one too many days of pre-school. Even my kid brother. at the tender age of four. knew exact­ly what he wanted to be. No ifs, ands, or buts, that kid was going to be a police car if it killed him. You're thinking, "Interesting choice, cute kid." You laugh. You think it's funny. 
At least it showed some direction in life. Some imagination. A remote connection to some possible future career choice. 
Had you asked me at the same age, I would have said, "Barbie." Ask me now, and, heck, I think I'd still say Barbie. 
Barbie had it made. She had a great house. A great car. Great clothes. Ken. Whether or not she had a job, I couldn't say for sure. She did do that astronaut thing for a while (space suit doubled as evening gown), but I think that's just a little out of my league. 
Anyhow, sadly enough. I have finally come 
to the conclusion that Barbie is one heck of an 
impossible goal. Plus, I'm beginning to ques­
tion holding eleven and one half inches of 
plastic as a role model. So, I figured it was 
time to start compiling a list of more viable, 
future career choices. Mom would be proud. 
1. 
Professional wine-grape stomper. Travel possibilities unlimited. Follow wine harvest. Stomp grapes. Wait year. Drink good wine in exotic foreign locales. 

2. 
Professional Godiva Chocolate taster They've gotta be trying out all those dark chocolate, coconut almond peanut cluster caramel drops out on someone. It might as well be me. Minuses: Could result in excessive weight gain and allergy induced hives. 

3. 
Bill Gates' or Michael Eisner's wife. 'Nuff said. 

4. 
Professional student at the expense of the United States government. This one looks bet­ter and better everyday. 

5. 
Let's Go Europe travel guide writer. Possibility of meeting/marrying cute, tall Australian man is high. Have those intelligent types at Harvard University pay me to go to Oktoberfest, Paris, and Santorini, Greece. 

6. 
Barbie clothing designer. If I can't be Barbie, at least give me the chance to design her clothes. 

7. 
Trashy romance novel writer. Free stand-up cardboard cut-out of Fabio included in first contract. 


If you have any clue whatsoever as to how I can obtain any of these jobs, or you have some other ideas that you think I would make the 


perfect candidate for, don't hesitate to let me know. I'm game for anything. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer.  
• TODAY'S STAfF  
Sports  
News  Matt Casey  
Brad Prendergast  Andy Cabiness  
Amy Schmidt  Production  
Viewpoint  Michelle Marcone  
Suzy Fry  Belle Bautista  
Lab Tech  Accent  
Dane Kramer  Krisra Nannery  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday t"«cepr during exam and vacation periods. The Qbserver is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• W£iRUt AT A GLANCE 
Census: Welfare mothers have children earlier, more often 
WASHINGTON to 2,213 children per 1,000 mothers 
Non-welfare mothers who 
Mothers who receive welfare aid have not on AFDC. 
receive AFDC 

babies earlier than other women and have more of them, a new Census -Some 48 percent of mothers Never ma<ried --[j.··­
Bureau profile shows. receiving AFDC have never married, // · ··-and 23 percent are widowed or divorced, // a~ divorced 
..~ ~. Widowed 
/ ..

While Congress debates welfare 17 percent are married but not living / ':.
i ..· \-----,
reform, including seeking ways to with their husband and 13 percent are 1reduce out-of-wedlock births, the new married with their husband present. 74% -·--5~ I report shows that nearly half of moth­For non-welfare mothers, the figures \ Married and i Married ers receiving Aid to Families with are 8 percent who have never mar­\. living with / but 
\ husband / n?t livin~
Dependent Children have never mar­ried, 12 percent widowed or divorced, 

w1th the1r
ried. 5 per cent married with a husband 
husband 
The Census Statistical Brief compiles absent and 7 4 percent married and data from the bureau's Survey of living with a husband. Income and Program Participation for 
Of the 3.8 million mothers 
1993. It was issued in response to -More mothers receiving AFDC 
receiving AFDC: 

requests from members of Congress were white, 2.1 million, than black, and the media, statistician Amara 1.5 million. But those receiving AFDC 

Less '\

Bachu said. The brief report found: represented about 25 percent of black 
than \
mothers and 7 percent of white moth­
a high \ 
-Mothers receiving AFDC were ers. 
school !
20.3 years old when they had their 

education I 
first child, compared to a median age -Of the 3.8 million mothers receiv­
44%/
of 22.9 years for mothers not receiving ing AFDC, 44 percent had less than a aidin 1993. high school education, 38 percent had ~//wcompleted high school and 19 percent -The mothers on welfare had 2,586 had attended some college. 
Note: F~gures do nol add up

children per 1,000 mothers, compared to 100% due to rounding. 
Mandela won't defend estranged wife 
JOHANNESBURG 
President Nelson Mandela reaf­firmed his commitment Thursday to rooting out corruption, even if that means firing his estranged wife. Mandela also said his government would not act against Winnie Mandela unless authorities can prove she abused her position as deputy minister of arts, culture, science and technolo­


gy. Police raided Mrs. Mandela's Soweto mansion Wednesday looking for evidence of allegations she took bribes and peddled her influence. Mrs. Mandela accused police of trying to discredit her, but cut short a trip to West Africa amid calls from the political opposition for her resignation. She was taken to Johannesburg Supreme Court, where a hearing was set for Friday. 
Dog retrieves legs of missing woman 
WAUKEGAN, Ill. 
Genetic testing has tentatively identified a pair of human legs dragged home by a German shepherd as that of a 24-year-old woman who disappeared in January. Stacy Frobel was last seen at a friend's home on Jan. 3 and was reported missing by her husband, police said. Genetic testing was performed on tissue taken from the legs and from Mrs. Frobel's parents, police said Wednesday. No other body parts were found. Police planned to release a photo of Mrs. Frobel with hopes that someone who may have seen her since her disappear­ance would come forward, Lake County Sheriffs Lt. Chet lwan said Wednesday. Five days later, the dog brought home a comparable section of a right leg. Police searched unsuccessfully for a body in the rural partly wooded area northwest of Chicago where the dog and its owner live. 
Skinheads arrested in family killing 
MIDLAND, Mich. 
Two hulking, tattooed brothers were taken to court in 
shackles today to face charges of beating and stabbing 
their parents and younger brother to death in 
Pennsylvania. Bryan Freeman, 17, and David Freeman, 
15, were arrested Wednesday at a rural home near 
Hope, Mich .. along with a cousin and another young 
man. Judge James E. Wilson said the brothers are 
charged with three counts each of homicide and conspir­
acy to commit homicide in the slayings of Dennis 
Freeman, 54, Brenda Freeman, 48, and Eric Freeman, 
11, whose bodies were found Sunday. Police say the 
brothers had threatened for years to kill their parents as 
revenge for imposing a lifestyle they rejected. They both 
collect Nazi paraphernalia and have Nazi slogans tat­
tooed on their foreheads. 
R.E.M. drummer falls ill in concert 
FRANKFURT, Germany The drummer of the rock group R.E.M. left a concert in Switzerland with a migraine headache and was hospital­ized for observation, a spokeswoman said Thursday. Bill Berry was suffering from "severe migraines," said Michele Rawson, a spokeswoman for R.E.M.-Athens, Ltd., the group's management organization in Athens, Ga. "He's in good spirits," Rawson said. "The doctors are checking him." Berry felt ill and was unable to complete the concert in Lausanne, Switzerland, on Wednesday night, concert promoter Marek Lieberberg said. Lieberberg said Berry had suffered a brain hemorrhage, but Rawson said that was not the case. Lieberberg said he could not give Berry's condition or other details. The Lausanne-based Le Matin newspaper said Berry grabbed his head in pain and was taken off stage. Singer Michael Stipe told the audience it was a "bad migraine," the newspaper said. 
•INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
Friday, March 3 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weathere forecast for noon, Friday, March 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 
ILL. 
FRONTS: 
~...&...a....~ 


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu~Wea1her, Inc. Pressure ~ 
H L EB &'SJ liil 0 IZJ § {) L-J. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T~STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V.wAssocJB.tedPres. 

Atlanta 52 42 Dallas 64 40 New Orleans 68 51 Baltimore 38 26 Denver 43 26 New York 42 26 Boston 35 21 Los Angeles 62 56 Philadelphia 44 28 Chicago 36 25 Miami 77 62 Phoenix 68 55
Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 47 24 Minneapolis 24 19 St. Louis 47 30
C1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Friday, March 3, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• SECURITY BEAT MON., FEB. 27 
12:33 p.m. Security was notified that a tree branch fell on a car parked in the 81 parking lot. 
2:56 p.m. Security responded to a two-car accident on Old Juniper Road. There were no injuries report­ed. 
7:30 p.m. An off-campus student reported the theft of his coat from the racquetball court courts in the JACC. 
9:45 p.m. A visitor reported the theft of his coat from the ice rink in the JACC. 
TUES., FEB. 28 
12:21 a.m. A Siegfried Hall resi­dent was transported to the St. Joseph Medical center for a treatment of an illness. 
12:42 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported receiving a harassing telephone call. 
4:20 p.m. A Sorin Hall resident re­ported the theft of his bike from Gate 5 at the JACC. 
9:41 p.m. Security responded to a three-car accident on Edison Road. There were no injuries reported. 
WED. MARCH 1 
5:08 a.m. A University employee reported that she fell while walking in the B 1 parking lot. She reported receiving minor injuries. 
2:36 p.m. A St. Edward's Hall resi­dent reported the theft of his bookbag from North Dining Hall. 
6:55 p.m. Two Flanner Hall resi­dents reported the theft of several coats from their room. 
10:44 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his coat from his room. 




·-------------------------·I
I I I I I 
1 I Any Large 14 " Pizza for only $5 I 
1
The Best Pizza at The Best Price
1 1
Call The Huddle At 1-6902 .
1 1 
I I 
I COUPON EXPI"ES 5/30/811 I 

·-------------------------·I
I I I I I I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas 11 and a 2/iter Coke Product On1y $10 1
1 
I Call 1-6902 I I I 
I COUPON EX PI" ES IS/30/115 I 

·-------------------------· 
Sheehan td,i1head education alliance 
~~~·
. 
~···=··~· . 
·.f::+~:·.:.. . -· Specl~1;~•The Obse 
the University of Portland, which operates the teacher 
Sister Lourdes Sheehan training and master's in educa· 
R.S.M., U.S. Catholic Conferm,~· tion degree programs for ACE 
enc,e •(U~CC) secretarr for edu-"il~:., participants. 
catiOn smce 1990. will becomert ~·rn her role at the usee. 
director of the University of Sister Lourdes has been a part 
Notre Dame-sponsored Alliance of ACE since its inception," 
for Catholic Education (ACE), Father Scully said in announc· 
effective July 1. ing the appointment. 
ACE. the brainchild of Father "It is a work of providence Timothy Scully, a vice president that she now has consented to and associate provost at Notre step into the directorship of the Dame, was founded a year ago program as we continue to set to provide committed Catholic ambitious goals for its growth." teachers for understaffed .•..... Sister Sheehan has been an parochial schools and to·pro· ... educator and educational vide recent college graduateS'w administrator for more than 35 with intensive teacher training · years. and opportunities for Christian Prior to joining the USCC, she community and personal served for five years with the 
growth· . %!''> National Catholic Education 
The National Catholic Edu.i'D• Association as executive direc· 
catiu.:naJ Association and the tor of its National Association of 
USCC Department of Education, Boards of Education. 
heretofore under Sister A native of Savannah, Ga., Sheehan's direction, are col-she was a teacher and principal :~~~oJ,'ators in ACE. ··.·· , • .in a number of schools in the
'"<A.ls6 a partner' institution is• "'Southeast from 1958-71, then 

to Our Top 
"DAWG" 
Sean Patrick Daughterly 

Mom&Dad 
4 Chn~ToCAILTrnHmE B 


.



r-------------------------•I 
I I I I I 
I Large 14 " Cheese Pizza Only $4 I 
1 1
Now, That's a Deal!
1 1
I Call 1-6902 I I I
I COUPON EXPIRES 11/30/115 I 


·-------------------------·I
I I I I I 
I You get 2 Large 14" 1 item I 
1 1
Pizzas for OnlJ! $9
1 1
I Call 1-6902 I I I
I COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/811 I 

·-------------------------· 
served as superintendent o schools of the diocese o Richmond, Va., from 1972-82. She was provincial administra· tor for her religious congrega­tion, the Sisters of Mercy, Baltimore Regional Community, from 1984-85. 
Sister Sheehan was gradu­ated from Mount Saint Agnes College in Baltimore in 1958 with a bachelor's degree in his· tory and education. 
She earned a master's degree in colonial history from the University of Pennsylvania in 1963 and a doctoral degree in educational administration from Virginia Tech in 1981. 
In its first year of operation, ACE has trained and placed 40 recent Notre Dame and Saint Mary's graduates in 30 schools in dioceses across the country. 
"The ACE excites me and pro· vides an opportunity to partici­pate in a new and unique pro· gram to spur on Cl\lholic schools," Sheehan said. 
American Hean ft 
Associa(ion...~ 
f~HNtfo...... 
·"",$hoi." 

Research gave him a future 

101995, Amencan Heart Assoc1a110n 

-
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competiors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
Friday, March 3, 1995 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS of the chamber, and all eyes 
R c 

turned to Hatfield when he rose 
aCe ar
Senate 
from his seat on the center aisle to utter the "no" that continued from page 1
continued from page 1 
sealed the measure's fate. 


Dole and other Republicans
some opponents argued it 
sharply attacked six Democratswould lead to devastating cuts for voting against the measureand cripple efforts to deal ~th 
after supporting a virtually
future economic emergenctes identical one last year. 
and didn't belong in the Consti­A contingent of the 73-mem­tution. 
ber House GOP freshman classA key element of "Contract 
trooped across the Capitol
With America," it cleared the parking lot toward the SenateGOP-controlled House in Jan­
bearing a huge poster.
uary on a vote of 300-132. Its "Wanted for flip-flopping," itrejection marked the sharpest 
said, bearing photograp~s of
setback to date for the conser­Daschle as well as Sens. Dianne vative revolution that Republi­Feinstein, Byron Dorgan, Jeff 
cans launched after gaining 
Bingaman, Wendell Ford andcontrol of both houses. · Ernest Hollings. 
The Senate vote also marked In an indication of the mea­a remarkable triumph for 77­
sure's popularity, five other
year-old West Virginia Demo­senators who face re-election crat Robert Byrd, who led the next year -three Democratsopposition. He said afterward: and two Republicans -aban­"The issue has decided in favor doned past opposition to vote in of the sanctity of the Constitu­favor.
tion." 
No sooner had the measureRepublicans had looked to 
died than Republicans an­
the measure to provide disci­nounced a news conference for pline for tough votes ahead. 
Friday to discuss "plans to de­"It might make getting what 
feat" Democratic balanced­
we want to do harder," Sen. 
budget amendment opponentsPete V. Domenici, R-N.M., 
in 1996. 

chairman of the Budget Com­Presidential politics lurked inmittee, said shortly after the 
the background, as well, as vote. "For some senators, it aides to Dole acknowledgedmight be easier to avoid the 
that passage of the amendmenttough votes." 
under his leadership would have been a boon to his unan­
Moments before the vote, nounced bid for the WhiteDole accused Democrats of 
House.

playing blatant politics. "All 
Even so, said Sen. Phil
this talk about protecting Social 
Gramm, R-Texas, already in
Security is a cover for a tax the race for the White House,increase" they voted two years "I don't think anybody is goingago, including higher. levies. o~ to fault Bob Dole." 
wealthy Social Secunty recipi­The vote capped a five-weekPnts. 
debate that had been scheduledHe said Republicans would to end this week before Dole soon propose a five-year plan twice postponed the vote. That 
to put the budget on a path 
allowed for last-minute
toward balance by 2002. "Our negotiations with Democrats,plan will not raise taxes," he 
principally North Dakotans
said. "Our plan will not touch 
Kent Conrad and Byron
Social Security." 
Dorgan, over a compromiseDaschle said Democrats that would have gradually
would gladly join in the deficit­
phased out use of the Social
cutting effort, but added, "It's Security trust funds to balancethe Republicans who are in the the budget. 
leadership here.... We want to Five Democrats, more than see what they've got." 
enough to assure passage, laterWhen the roll call finally oc­offered to support the measurecurred after a month of debate, if Republicans would write ~ro­it was dramatic, yet scripted, tection for the trust funds mtosince every senator's position the amendment. 
was known in advance. They Beyond the symbolic impor­voted in alphabetical order, ris­tance of the issue, the impact
ing at their desks by turn to 
would be enormous on deficit­
answer the roll. Aides and 
cutting efforts. 

House members lined the back 
Sunday, March 5 • 7-8:30 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
The cars were to. be built by students using the Formula Lightning chassis coupled to .a motor and drive system of their own design. The program aimed to bring interested schools together in a race that would test the accomplish­ments of the builders by pitting school against school. 
Notre Dame's car was con­structed by undergraduates in the College of Engineering. The college entered the pro­gram in September 1993, "with 
a loan from the University Re­The electrically powered car of Notre D_ame's Irish Racing Team will search Office, faith in our abili­race at Firebird International Raceway th1s Sunday. ties, and numerous visits to the 
Dame vehicle uses 29 AC Delco not only drive ~he car, but testGrotto,"said J.D. Miles, an En­12-volt lead-acid batteries to it and work wtth our s.~ud~nts
gineering Assistant Dean and 
power its 350-volt AC Delco during developmen~. Miles 
one of the members of the rac­electric motor. The car said. "t:Jar~ Folkert did ..a trulying team. 
achieves 0-60 in 6.5 seconds, superb JOb for our team. .
The students and other mem­boasting a top speed of 140-145 The work done by student~ m bers of the team were able to 
h designing the car propulsiOn prepare the car for the July m~t ·the wheel is racing veteran system attests to the int~llectu­
1994 race in Cleveland at a cost Mark Folkert, whose driving al signifigance of the proJect. 
of about $120,000. This figure brought victory in Cleveland "To build a car and prepare
includes the car, transport 
and second in Indianapolis. for races, tea~ members mu.st
trailer, testing, and the many Folkert, who became involved adapt the sktlls they learn I_n
other costs associated with 
in the project soon after its con-the classroom to make deci­devloping a race car. 
ception, is the 1993 SCCA Ceo-sions on materials to be u~ed,The Formula Lightning is a tral Division National Champion chemical safet~, electncal single-seat, open-wheeled race­in Formula Atlantic Cars. inter.~aces, ~nd pit_ s~op strate­car which is 30 inches high and "We were fortunate to have a gies, explamed Wilham Berry,
163 inches long. The Notre 
professional driver volunteer to a professor and team member. 

Rally 

continued from page 1 
come back here to do my grad­uate work my friends all won­dered why I was coming back here as an openly gay male," he said. "Its because of the people here. The support we've received has been remark­able." 
Ava Collins, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, pointed out that she. was technically a representative of the administration, a comment that brought scattered boos from the crowd. But Collins 
wantedthat "there to let the are members of the campus know •-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::;iii::::;i;;;:::~ administration who support 111111••• GLND/SMC," she said. 
"We've had no response, up to know, but we must have a response," said Collins. "We will not go away until we have 

a repsonse." 

What Is Christian Service all about? So much to do, so little time... 
How can we live out the Christian value of service for others? What is the relationship between service and a strong prayer life? The panel will focus on their experience of relating the two challenges. 
Panel members: Greg Behr, Notre Dame student, Felicia Leon and Dan Driscoll, married couple, Katie Glynn, Notre Dame student, joe Ross, C. S.C., rector of Morrissey Hall 

Each session will include: An experience of prayer Presentation by speaker or panel Question and answer period • Refreshments 

(2MPUS 
MINISTRY
P A R T 3 OF A 3 -P A R T S E R I E S 
STUDENTS ARE WELCOME TO ATIEND ALL THREE SESSIONS OR AS MANY OF THE THREE AS THEY CAN. 
$3.75 CHILDREN and SENIOR CITIZENS $3.75 BARGAIN MATINEES • Before 6 PM $5.75 EVENING ADULT ADMISSION 

Friday, March 3, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

eavor astronauts prepare for stargazing 
y MARCIA DUNN 
>~ociared Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL 
Eager to begin two weeks of 
·targazing, space shuttle En­
Jenvour's astronauts focused 
·tnd adjusted three ultraviolet 
elescopes in orbit Thursday 
ollowing a brilliant nighttime 
aunch. 
The crew's four astrophysi­
:ists spent most of the day 
eadying the telescopes for as­
ronomical observations. ex­

acted to begin Friday. 
During the 15 1/2-day flight 
the longest in shuttle history 
the telescopes will study ul· 
raviolet light streaming from 
·tars, galaxies, quasars, the 
noon and Jupiter. Astronomers 
vant to understand how the 
miverse began and how it 
night end. 
Their No. 1 quarry is elusive, ~f it exists at all. For years. as­,t ronomers have been trying to ~ind gaseous helium believed to ~1ave been formed when the !universe was created. 
Tho astronauts will aim the relescopes at a quasar 10 bil­lion light years away to see i ultraviolet light radiating from the quasar is absorbed by any­thing. If it is, the absorbent ma· terial could be intergalactic he· lium. 
"If we just succeed in getting good enough observations o that one object, I'll he satisfied with the mission," said Arthur Davidsen. an astrophysicist at Johns Hopkins University: who is in charge of one of the tele· scopes. 
Astronomers have more than 600 celestial targets from which to choose. 
Endeavour's astrophysicists will work around the clock in 12·hour shifts to squeeze in as many observations as possible before the flight ends on March 17. 
Earth's atmosphere blocks out most ultraviolet radiation. so scientists have to study it from space. 
The observations by the $200 million set of telescopes known as Astro will complement -not duplicate -the work of the $1.6 billion Hubble Space Tele· scope. 
Over 200 attend Campus Ministry faith seminar 
By KELLY MOORE 
News Writer 

Campus Ministry is sponsor­ing a three-part series called "Keeping the Faith" which fo­cuses on different ways people find God. 
The lecture series began last Sunday night as more than 200 people joined in a meditative prayer called taize, which in­volves repetitive songs. 
Following the prayer, John Dunne, a professor of theology, presented a lecture on finding God in the "center of stillness" by finding a center of stillness of one's own. 
Each session includes an ex­perience of a prayer, a presen­tation by a speaker or panel, and a question and answer pe­riod. 
The second session, held on Thursday, included a pre­sentation by popular theology professor, Regina Coil. She dis­cussed praying with the scrip­tures and expanding images of God in prayer form. 
The last session will be held in the Keenan-Stanford chapel from 7-8:30 p.m. on Sunday. This session will focus on the relationship between service and prayer. 
In place of a speaker, a panel to discuss how prayer and ser· vice go hand in hand will be held. 
Members of the panel repre­sent different lifestyles and therefore will discuss many dif· ferent spiritual experiences. 
Gregg Behr and Katie Glynn, both Notre Dame students, Fe­licia Leon and Dan Driscoll, a married couple, and Joe Ross. rector of Morrisey Hall will all share their experiences on re­lating service and strong prayer. 
The whole point of this series of lectures is not to give stu­dents the type of information about religion that they can learn in a theology class. 
"The series is designed to help people learn how they can use prayer in their lives and to feel more comfortable with their own spirituality," Kate Barrett. of the Campus Ministry office in Badin Hall, said. 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
Mocktails, Settie top happy hour 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 

The Saint Mary's Student Ac­tivities Board (SAB) held a "Happy Hour" yesterday in Haggar Parlor. The event in­cluded hors d'oeurves and mocktails, along with the ap­pearance of musician Settie. 
"The different combination of food and mocktails made this event such a success. and everybody really enjoyed the performance of Settie," stated chairperson Dallas Hunt. Settie is also scheduled to come back to Saint Mary's in October, according to Hunt. 
Another "Happy Hour" will he held on April 20 from 4:30­6 p.m. with another band per­forming, according to Hunt. This event will also be free for those who plan to attend. 
Among the other activites announced last night: 
•A 
vendor selling blown glass items will he on the Saint Mary's campus March 20-24 in the LeMans lobby. All of the items for sale are made by hand, and the costs range from $1.25-$150. 

•Hypnotist 
Jim Wand will ap· pear in Carroll Auditorium on Tuesday, March 21 from 7-9 p.m. 




A picture on yesterday's front page misidentified Bishop John D'Arcy of the Roman Catholic diocese of South Bend-Fort Wayne. Bishop D'Arcy distributed ashes at a service in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. The Observer regrets the er­ror. 


and so it mas sllid 1llat on the <!imnd & <31oriou.s fjighth & flxtm Dag <!iod did indrnl rrrarc 'Bm To kcqJ the Irish from (lonquning the f(jorld 

•REBEL BEACH· •CITRUS •HOBIE •MORI: 
.. 


r-------~----------------, 
I BRING IN THIS AD &RECEIVE $5 OFF 1 :YOUR JUNIORC'SWIMWEAR PURCHASE!: 
I .. )~ g~ through March 5, 1995. . I L -------<!I'IW:')~·-:~ .....:=~~-·-~.: ..~ ------------·--J 

--------------~~---~­
page 6 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Friday, March 3, 1995 







Welfare plan to cut $35 billion 
By JENNIFER DIXON state lines, and if necessary, continued to try to reshape the 
Associated Press make them work off what they bill with changes that were owe," Clinton wrote in a letter largely rejected, mostly along 
WASHINGTON to Rep. Bill Archer, R-Texas. party lines. 
Republican legislation to dis­Republicans, who released According to the estimates JILL LAWRENCE Wi''" mantle the federal welfare sys­the budget estimates, said com­from Congress' official budget IAss;oci,lted Press tem would cut spending on so­passion can no longer be mea­analysts, the GOP legislation cial programs by more than sured by how much money before the Ways and Means WASHINGTON $35 billion over the next five Washington spends on the Committee would cut welfare The Senate has often been a years, congressional budget country's poorest and most dis­spending by $35 billion over 
ground for grand plans. experts said Thursday. advantaged families. five years. 
e balanced-budget amend­The biggest savings in the "We're breaking the entitle­Some $6.2 billion of that was the first piece ofthe GOP plan, according to an anal­ment mentality of the welfare comes from repealing a child IJUJlJut;uu legislative revolu­ysis by the Congressional Bud­state," declared Ari Fleischer, a care program that is included to stall there. but it's not get Office, come from deep cuts spokesman for the Ways and in separate legislation that con­to be the last. in programs that provide cash Means Committee. solidates child care and child 're not going to allow one assistance to disabled children Democrats continued to at­nutrition programs into three two senators to stand in our and elderly aliens. tack. Health and Human Ser­separate block grants.The over­" freshman Rep. Randy The budget analysis was re­vices Secretary Donna Shalala all savings of the GOP's· entire R-Wash., declared just leased as the House Ways and called the GOP efforts "cruel plan, which also includes Thursday's Senate vote Means Committee continued its blows to our youngest and most changes in the food stamp pro­balanced-budget third day of debate on the GOP vulnerable citizens.... House gram, have yet to be measured. legislation, which would repeal Republicans aren't offering Nearly one-third of the sav­the acute frustration of dozens of welfare programs tough love or positive alterna­ings from the Ways and Means over the centuries, developed since the New Deal tives -they're offering cold bill -$10.2 billion -comes exactly what the Senate and return the money -and shoulders and cruel indiffer­from cutting off health insur­is designed to do. the responsibility for support­ence." ance and cash assistance to le­No one knows that better ing the poor -to the states. Democrats also insist the GOP gal immigrants on the rolls of than the Senate Republicans The GOP's legislation also re­is cutting welfare to finance tax Supplemental Security Income, 
watched the foundation of peals the government's promise breaks for wealthy Americans. a program for the elderly and their party's government-cut­to provide a monthly check to "They're whacking the living disabled. An additional $10.7 ting drive go down to defeat. In single mothers and children daylights out of the social safety billion in savings comes from the last Congress, whenthey whose income meets eligibility net," said Rep. Jim McDermott, denying cash benefits to dis­were in the minority, the GOP requirements. D-Wash. abled children, drug addicts killed two of President Clinton's Republican lawmakers, Democrats on the committee and alcoholics now on SSI. top priorities: a $16 billion eco­meanwhile, released their plan nomic stimulus bill and a major late Thursday to strengthenoverhaul of the health-care sys-child support collections by es­
tablishing state and national 

Even as Republicans VQV\red registries of all child support try to pass the balanced-orders and new hires. dget amendment ain in Democrats criticized the child 
1996 election . . ... support measures as weak, not­
no bones about the ncn,+h''T'·' 
ing that they do not include Thursday's loss. principle · provisions to take away the "Of all the issues in the the House battle later professional, occupational and 
'Contract With America/ the tnorith on the ,term~llmit driver's licenses of non-paying 
IJJi:I,IaJ:Ict!u-budget amendment amendment. parents.the .most significant," said ·, ''You are just talking about · "T,his was really the hope for Jim Inhofe. R·Okla .. Y' . ili'Y(l,.l'Y big hurdl~. to get to fair treatment of women," said 
se Speaker Newt ,Gin-votes," Gingrich said) Rep. Barbara B. Kennelly, D­R-Ga., he had think term limits, frankly, Conn. But Rep. Jim McCrery, R­lunna'""'o>Hm problemS ... going t{) be a Veryl\ar~ ~l\)g." La., said the bill would "create posed by the other chamber; "1 ..·· uHouse RepuhUcans,are· a national network to track and thought frankly that the Senate pared to claim victory locate deadbeat dads and ... had a slightly more likeli-for getting the te enforce (child support) judg­hood of passing the balanced 11,mendrn,ent to the ments against those dads. As budget," he said. . some remote chance usual, the Democrats are guilty
Still, Gingrich predicted .the the evef1less of using hyperbole." Senate ultimately will pMs can be countect,,pn topelrfo:rml President Clinton told Waysabout 60 percent of th.e last rites. and Means Committee chair­"Contract With America," the The Senate also will man, meanwhile, that he be­campaign tract he conceived problems -and n<>1rh<lnC lieves Congress should follow and is pushing through the other defeat "'C:later this the guidelines of his adminis­Hous.e. for the line-item veto. tration's welfare reform plan
The Senate already has ap-Like several other .contr when it comes to dealing with 
proved new laws subjecting items, it,changes the ""''-Pd"4' parents who don't pay child to the laws it passes power among the states, support. 
tua,l\.Ut)'; it harder to impose courts, the White House "If absent parents aren't pay­psive requirementson Congress. Th~ importance ing child support, we will gar­and cities without paying the principle could prompt · nish their wages, suspend their filibuster. licenses, track them across 
Join The 


The Observer
Observer 
ARE YOU READY FOR
staff 
The Saint Mary's Department


AREAL-LIFE 
is looking for: 


EDUCATION? 
SMC Accent Editor SMC News Editor SMC Sports Editor 
Oismas offers the chance to live in acommunity of students and former prisoners who together create an environment of trust' friendship and hope 

Asst. SMC Editor 
which helps each resident enter society as avaluable and integral member. 

SMC Photo Editor 
ON MONDAY, MARCH 6 AT 6:00PM AT 
THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL COCERNS, 

SMC Day Editors 
CURRENT RESIDENTS --BOTH STUDENTS AND FORMER PRISONERS --WILL ANSWER ANY AND ALL OF YOUR QUESTIONS ABOUT 
THIS UNIQUE LIVING OPPORTUNITY. 
Are you an enthusiastic, committed woman, who is
PIZZA WILL BE SERVED. 
interested in any ofthese positions? Please submit a one page letter ofintent to Patti Carson by Mon., March 6. 
Oak'ltgo llnir Gnihtg Co.~ 
5804 Grape R-j., Mishawaka 
COME CHECKff OUT! 
277--1946 
Questions? Call Patti @284-4310 or 631-4540 
H•_IURS 9 to 8 Sat 9 to & Sun. II 5 

~~------------· -----------------------------~~--.------------------------------------------------~---------------------, 
Friday, March 3, 1995 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Catholics cheer papal visit 
By RICK HAMPSON 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
From a Nebraska .family of 12 to a New Jersey souvenir maker who almost lost his shirt when the pope canceled last year's U.S. visit, American c:atholics cheered the news Thursday that John Paul II will be coming in October. 
The unlucky businessman, miraculously, again wants a piece of the action. "After last year," said Robbi Villani, "we sure in hell know what we're doing." 
Last year the pope had planned to visit the dioceses of New York, Brooklyn, Newark, 
N.J.. and Baltimore, but post­poned the trip while he recov­P.red from hip-replacement surgery. 
On Thursday, the Vatican an­nounced he will make the trip this fall, arriving Oct. 4 at Newark and flying home from Baltimore on Oct. 8. 
The family of Pat and Debbie Wahlmeier of Juniata, Neb., was to have come to New York last year to meet the pope -an honor that went with being se­leeted the Knights of Columbus' International Family of the Year. 
Debbie said she hoped the 
family, which includes 10 chil­
dren, three of them adopted. 
could come East in October. 

"But it's a real blessing just to have him come to the U.S.," she said. "We've been con­cerned about his health. We've prayed for him." 
Last year's trip was canceled at a time when the 7 4-year-old pontiff was looking particularly frail and tired. But the Vatican denied he was seriously ill, and the pope resumed foreign travel in January. 
Villani is looking forward to the visit. The Newark souvenir maker won the contract to make T -shirts. hats and other memorabilia to sell at the pope's scheduled Mass last year at Giants Stadium in northern New Jersey. 
The archdiocese had cancel­lation insurance. Villani did not, and under his contract he was stuck with $500,000 in merchandise, much of it dated. 
Despite his losses -Villani would offer nothing more spe­cific than "we ate a lot of it" ­he said he hoped to be selected as the souvenir vendor for the pope's New Jersey event. 
It remained unclear exactly 

~~ Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant ~r 1991, 1992, and 1993 
lr----~ 

Banquet rooms 
Szechuan • Cantonese • American 
available lor 
Chinese Restaurant &Lounge Open 7 days 
upto200 
Sunday Buffet Brunch • Every Sunday] 
$8.95 for Adults 
[ 

$3.95 for Children under 1 0 
(219)272-73711• 130 Obdeway S. (US 31 ill Roeeland) at Randall's Inn South Bend, IN Pope John Paul II has scheduled a trip to the U.S. October 5-8, 1995. He plans to visit New York City, Newark, N.J., and Baltimore. 
APITonia Cowan, Terry Kola 
what the pope would be doing in addition to an Oct. 5 visit to the United Nations to celebrate its 50th anniversary. 
Several church officials said they expect the pope's New York-area itinerary to be simi­lar to last fall's, which would have included Masses at Shea Stadium and Yonkers Raceway. 
The Most Rev. Theodore E. McCarrick, the archbishop of Newark, believes the pope will celebrate Mass at Giants Sta­dium and visit Newark's Cathe­dral of the Sacred Heart. both of which were on the pope's 1994 schedule. 
"I'd love the holy father to see our cathedral. ... The man~ faces of the church of Newark,' McCarrick said. ''I'd love him to say 'Hey! That church of Newark, wow! They have a lit tie of everybody."' 
The Baltimore archdiocese said the pope will celebrate Mass at the Camden Yards baseball park on the last day of his U.S. visit. 
A Continuing Series for Graduate Students 
Presenting 

Dominic Vachon, Ph.D. 
Discussing 

CONFLICT: "YOU'lRE RUGlHlT --]['M lRIGiiT! W1HlATARE WE GOING TO lDO ABOUT ][T NOW?" 
This wot·kshop focuses on techniques for recognizing and working through 11conflicts11 which occur between roommates and which arise in relationships and friendships. 
Date: Sunday, March 5th Time: 4:00 p.m. -5:00 p.m. At: Fischer/01Hara Grace Community Center 
Sponsored by: The University Counseling Center Fischer /O'Hara-Grace Campus Ministry University Village 


Planned Parenthood may add primary care 
By MICHAEL BLOOD 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Planned Parenthood, one of the most forceful advocates for abortion and birth control, is bitterly debating a reinvention that would turn its 900 clinics into health-care centers treat­ing everything from the flu to cuts and bruises. 
The plan to add primary care to Planned Parenthood's roster of family planning services would be one of the most dra­matic changes in the history of the 78-year-old non-profit or­ganization. 
The plan is being promoted by Planned Parenthood's na­tional leadership, which wants to ensure the group's financial health in an increasingly com­petitive health-care market. 
Mary Rauh, a member of the Planned Parenthood Feder­ation, the New York-based group that links the affiliates, said the group is approaching "the threshold of an era." 
"The question is, will there be a place in the reformed health-care system for a niche provider. a reproductive health provider?" Raub said. 
"It looks very risky to depend on that for our future.... We might get frozen right out of the system." 
But critics fear it would dilute the power of an organization that has led the fight on virtu­ally every major reproductive issue of the past century. 
"Never has a document seemed so out of touch with our mission," said a confiden­tial letter sent to affiliates by clinic executives in New York City. Chicago and Los Angeles. 
"The word abortion is men­tioned only eight times" in the 68-page reinvention blueprint, the letter complains, "and never in the discussion of our future." 
The plan, which has not been discussed publicly. is outlined in confidential memos obtained by The Associated Press, and several Planned Parenthood officials described it in inter­views. 
Planned Parenthood was f<?unded in 1917 by Margaret Sanger. a leading advocate of 
. birth control who later was in­strumental in the development of the Pill. 
It treats more than 2 million 
people a year. Abortions ac­
count for less than 10 percent 
of the group's services and are 
not available at all clinics. 

Most of Planned Parenthood's 
business consists of such ser­
vices as ounseling, gynecologi­
cal exams, pregnancy and 
breast cancer tests, and dis­
pensing contraceptives -near­
ly 2 million in 1993. 

Officials at individual clinics 
stressed that the reinvention 
plan was preliminary. and said 
they were willing to keep an 
open mind. But they also were 
wary of such a bold change in 
direction. 

The reinvention proposal 
"would totally revamp a 78­
year-old organization around 
the cornerstone of providing 
primary care, with no evidence 
that it will work," said a Feb. 
10 internal memo from the 
clinic in Eugene, Ore. 

Planned Parenthood must 
"not simply roll the dice on a 
decision that may destroy the 
most effective and highly re­
garded family planning ... or­
ganization on earth," the 
memo said. 

The debate takes on in­creased urgency because many states are steering low-income Medicaid patients -a key Planned Parenthood patient group -into managed-care plans like HMOs. So far, Medi­caid patients in 27 states belong to some form of man­aged care. 
By expanding its services, supporters of the plan say. Planned Parenthood would be better able to negotiate con­tracts with HMOs to provide services to patients they might otherwise lose. Supporters also fear that Congress may cut funding for contraceptive and reproductive-care programs used by clinics. 
"The whole structure of health care has changed," said Elizabeth Brenda-Roberts, ex­ecutive director of Planned Par­enthood Pennsylvania Affiliates. "We can't pretend we can be here by the grace of God." 
The final decision rests with the membership, which is ex­pected to consider the plan in April in Chicago. A task force, including federation President Pam Moraldo, is working on a second draft of the plan. 

Area's Newest & Friendliest Solon 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, March 3, 1995 


It's a big decision, choosing where to begin your career. There are many reason.s to join Deloitte & Touche -our clients, our dedication to quality, our professional development opportunities, our people. People who enjoy what they do. Our mission is simple: To be the professional services firm that consistently exceeds th~ expectations ofour clients and our people. 
With 15,800 people in more than 100 of}'ces in the United States, and through our global organiza­tion, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu International, we offer clients worldwide an outstanding and diverse port­folio of services. For you, t/1is means unlimited opportunities to grow, professionally and personally. So why not join a firm that will exceed your expectations? 
Congratulations to the following individuals who will join Deloitte & Touche after graduation: 
Brian Baker  Mike Fox  Andrew Kindred  Shirley Nagy  
Phyllis Barber  Molly Freeman  Mark Kost  David Owings  
Tom Blatz  Margaret Garzelloni  Stacey Krajewski  Christopher Pardi  
Christopher Boyle  Chris Graves  Matthew Kramer  Gary Rychtanek  
Peter Connolly  Rita Hajjar  Jon Lindberg  Michael Schreck  
Jane Daly  Mil~e Halloran  Charles McEnery  Vince Smith  
David DiFranco  Matthew Janzarul~  Kurt Merschman  Patricia Sullivan  
Doug Duncan  John Kilcoyne  Mike Murray  Paul Weis  

These professionals will join our Audit, Tax and 

Deloitte &
CAS practices in the following offices: Atlanta, Boston, Charlotte, Chicago, Cincinnati, Columbus, Denver, 

ToucheLLP 
Detroit, Grand Rapids, Indianapolis, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, Omaha, Phoenix, Pittsburgh, 
0 

Springfield and St. Louis. Accounting, Tax, and Consulting Services 

We Listen. We Deliver 
Dcloittc Touche Tohmatsu International 
Dcloillc {; Tow.:hc is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, ami promote witluml reg<~ rei to race, creed, color, national origin, alite, sex, veteran status, or handi<.·aps. 
Friday, March 3, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Alcohol may lower diabetes risk Landowners could be. 
1\y RAND! HUTTER EPSTEIN 
A><ociatcd Press 
LONDON 
Pack-a-day smokers are twice as likely as non-smokers to get adult-onset diabetes, but mod­Pratn drinkers run a lower risk than teetotalers, according to a study of more than 40,000 men. 
Although doctors have long known that diabetics are par­lieularly susceptible to the ill pffncts of smoking, this is one of tlw few studies to show the c~onverse: healthy people who smoke are more likely to get di­nlwtes. 
"The message for smokers clearly is to stop, and you may also want to ask your doctor to check you for diabetes," said Dr. Eric Himm. the leading in­vestigator from ·11arvard School of Public Health. 
"For alcohol," said Himm, "this is one additional piece of PViclence ... that shows that moderate drinking is okay among people who can control tlwir c:onsumption." 
The findings will be published in Saturday's British Medical .Journal. 
"1 was delighted to see his re­
•;ults," said Dr. Gerald Heaven, a professor of Medieine at Stan­ford University. Previously, llmtvB.n studied blood samples l'rom about 30 chronic smokers and found defects in sugar nwtabolism, a clue that the vol­unteers may one day suffer from diabetes. 
"We studied a handful of peo­ple and did intense metabolic studies. What his studies do is show these changes (in how the body digests sugar) are not only seen in a small select group of individuals but are relevant to the world at large," said Rea­van. 
The new results were gleaned from 6-year health study of 41 ,810 men. Every two years, volunteers completed ques­tionaires on lifestyle and health. None of them had dia­betes when the study started. 
After six years, 509 men got adult-onset diabetes, a form of the disease in which the patient usually does not need to have shots of insulin. 
The other kind of diabetes, called insulin-dependent dia­betes, usually strikes during childhood. Patients have to give themselves daily shots of in­sulin. 
Himm's team found that peo­ple who smoke 15 to 24 ciga­rettes a day were about twice as likely as non-smokers to get diabetes. 
Former smokers were about 30 percent more likely to get diabetes. 
Hcsearchers also found that men who drank two to four drinks a day of any kind of al­cohol reduced their chances of getting diabetes by 40 percent, compared to abstainers. 

The ties to smoking and alco­hol remained even after taking into account other factors that could have skewed the results, such as obesity. 
Previously the same re­searchers reported similar find­ings based on a large women's health study. In that study the benefits of alcohol were not as striking, said Rimm. He said that women did not report drinking as much as the men, so the link may not have emerged as strongly. 
Insulin makes cells of the body withdraw sugar from the blood. In adult-onset diabetes, people either do not make enough insulin or their cells be­come resistant to it. Patients are unusually susceptible to problems including heart at­tacks and eye disease. 
Although the Harvard study did not explore how smoking or alcohol impacts the sugar sys­tem, Rimm speculates that somehow smoking jams the system while alcohol revs it up, helping to get sugar into the cells more efficiently. 
Another study in the journal found that men who were smokers were 50 percent more likely than men who had never smoked to get adult-onset dia­betes. But the researchers em­phasized that obesity poses a bigger diabetes risk than smok­ing does. 

compensated for losses 
By H. JOSEF HEBERT 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Plans by an elderly couple in Maine to sell some oceanfront property went awry when part of it was declared a wetland. 
A Texas woman complained her 15 acres became almost worthless when developers lost interest after the discovery of the endangered golden­cheeked warbler. 
A dozen or more similar sto­ries were told Thursday on the House floor as lawmakers be­gan a two-day debate over whether the government should compensate landowners for property losses stemming from federal actions. 
The legislation, expected to be voted on Friday, calls for government agencies to pay landowners for losses if a prop­erty's value declines by at least 10 percent because of a federal action involving wetlands, en­dangered species protection or one of a number of public lands regulations. 
If the value is cut in half, the government would have to buy the property at market value. 
The bill, which originally would have covered all federal actions, was narrowed Thurs­day in hopes of gaining sup­port, but critics still called it draconian and potentially a bil­lion-dollar drain on the Trea­sury. 
"We don't know how much it will cost," said Rep. Bruce Vento, D-Minn., calling it po­tentially "the biggest taxpayer bailout ever." 
Other lawmakers said they were concerned that agencies would be unable to enforce wetlands and endangered species regulations, or restrict mining or logging on federal forests without being chal­lenged under the property "takings" provision. 
"Who will compensate the American people for the loss of wetlands and for the loss of di­versity in species?" asked Rep. Gerry Studds, D-Mass. "Do we 
411iedSignal 
AEROSPACE 
SECURITY 
Part time positions open on the afternoon and midnight shifts for Security Officers in Soufh Bend location. 
Will train and prouide uniforms. 
Starting pay at $6.50 per hour. 
Duties will consist of fire watch tours in an industrial/office compleH and access control at a uehicle/pedestrian gate. 
Contact Don Muncy at AlliedSignal Aerospace, 231-2528. 
EOE/M/F 







Recyclin' lri~n Meetin~ 
I y 
Monday, March 6, 1995 
at Montgomery Theater The meeting will last 20 minutes. Attendance Mandatory for new 
and old members 
really know what we are do­ing." 
But Rep. Billy Tauzin, D-la., said the government for too long "has made decisions on how people can use their prop­erty" and landowners should be compensated. 
"There is a constitutional right to use and enjoy one's private property," added Rep. Jack Fields, R-Texas. 
The requirement for compen­sation would be "a stick" to guard against "bureaucratic, frivo.I.ous decisions by regula­tors. 
The property rights legisla­tion is a part of the GOP's "Contract With America" that House Speaker Newt Gingrich is pushing to approve in the first 100 days -one of several bills aimed at curtailing federal regulations. 
Supporters argue that ero­sion of property values because of government restrictions ­such as a declaration of a wet­land or a stringent clean air re­quirement -amounts to a "taking" of property and that the owner should be compen­sated. 
The courts generally have said, however, that compensa­tion is not warranted unless all of a person's property is taken -such as when land is taken for a highway. 
Critics of the legislation say a broadening of the compensa­tion requirement would spark thousands of claims against the government and bring envi­ronmental enforcement to a halt. 
The Clinton administration has voiced its strong opposition to the bill, arguing that it could shatter agency budgets and would, in effect, pay people to comply with environmental laws. 
"It may require us to close parks, wildlife refuges or other lands," Interior Secretary Bruce Babbitt wrote Gingrich on the eve of the House debate. 
EPA Administrator Carol Browner also has sharply criti­cized the bill as a measure that would "allow polluters to be paid for not polluting" and give those who have avoided envi­ronmental improvements an advantage over those who have complied. 
Critics of the "takings" bill contend that it is not so much about property rights as it is about scuttling 25 years of clean-air, clean-water and species-protection laws. 
"The proposal is a thinly veiled attempt to repeal wet­lands legislation and to gut the Endangered Species Act through the back door without ever having a real out-in-the­open debate about either," says Babbitt. 
While supporters of the bill argue it is aimed at rectifying injustices to small landowners who see their property reduced because of federal laws, critics say the biggest benefactors will be mining companies, the tim­ber industry and real estate speculators who own millions of acres. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books 1n stock 


• 
Out-Of-Print Search Serv1ce 


-$1.00 
• Appra1sals large and small Open noon to six Tuesdl'y through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 (219) ~32-844;1 

page 10 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 3, 1995 


German police detain trader 
By NESHA STARCEVIC Associate::::::d~P..:.:re:::::ss:.._________ 
FRANKFURT 
The British trader whose gambles led to the collapse of IJritain's oldest investment bank was several steps ahead of a Singapore arrest warrant and almost home when police caught up with him Thursday. 
Nick Leeson was escorted off a flight from Malaysia and de­tained by German police while authorities waited for an extra­dition request and arrest war­rant accusing him of mishan­dling money and other charges. 
Leeson repeatedly told police he wanted to return to Britain, where his employer, Baring Brothers & Co., was trying to figure out how one man could lose an estimated $1 billion and bring down the 232-year-old hank in a matter of weeks. 
ln its first comment on the case, Singapore's fraud squad said Thursday it was investigat­ing a complaint by Baring Fu­tures that the 28-year-old Lee­son "committed offenses of forgery." 
It said the Baring complaint was made to police Monday, four days after Leeson and his wife, Lisa Simms, had already fled their luxury condominium in Singapore, leaving newspa­pers at the door and laundry drying on the balcony. 
The couple drove across the border into Malaysia, where they spent the night, then went on to a ritzy resort in Kota Kinabula, about 900 miles away on the island of Borneo. 
Malaysia's Daily Express newspaper said Leeson went to Hoyal Brunei Airlines office in 
Leeson on the lam 
Baring Brothers trader Nicholas Leeson was taken into custody Thursday. He faces extradition to Singapore, where he allegedly brought down the revered British bank. 

Kota Kinabalu on Tuesday, asked for the next available flight to Europe and paid $1,500 cash for the tickets. 
Zakri Abdul Rashid, director­general of Malaysia's Immigra­tion Department, said Leeson's flight left Wednesday night be­fore immigration authorities could act on a police request to detain him. 
He blamed the delay on "tim­ing," saying the department's computer system was not con­nected with all state immigra­tion departments. 
Daily Express assistant editor James Sardra said he tried to have the plane stopped in Bangkok, where it made a 
APfWm. J. Castello 
scheduled stop, but the airport duty manager told him on the phone, "Please don't ask me to go to the runway and try to stop the plane." 
Police carrying pictures of the couple boarded the plane when it landed in Frankfurt early Thursday. Leeson was taken into custody, but Ms. Simms was released and flew to Britain. 
The couple's newly hired lawyer, Eberhard Kempf, said Leeson would probably spend the night in a Frankfurt prison before he was taken before a judge Friday where he was ex­pected to fight on extradition request. 
u;:s~;l,('may not)jattend Oth 

l::!,!roshima anniversary 
By CHARLES J. HANLEY &so~!"# Pws 
...:f.{ ·. >,y/f? HIROSHIMA Statesmen, survivors and pea¢e #ctivi~ts from around the 
wotld wm gather here this summer for the 50th anniver­sary of the Hiroshima bombing. 
But don't count on finding U.S. official among the solemn crow Ak 
Tbelegacy of thatday a half· century ago, when a single American atomic bomb in· stantly devastated a Japanese city, still makes two close friend$ ·sometimes act like old foes. ' 
Hiroshima Mayor Takashi Hi­raoka, organizer of the Aug. 6 commemoration, sounds exas­perated by Washington. 
Past i,nvitations to u.s. presi­dents to attend Hiroshima events have been declined, he said in an interview, "and we think high-level U.S. officials will not attend this time even if we invite them'' -which, he said, he probably will not. 
In Tokyo, a U.S. Embassy of­ficial would say only, "We have not made any decision on what to do ifinvited.'' 
The seeming snub may actu­ally be a face-saving gesture, sparing Americans and Japanese alike the embarrass­ment of rejected tnvitations or the\'<'aWkwardness of U.S. participation, something likely to set off U.S. veterans' protests. 
Embarrassment and protest already' ~ave marred the lead· up to the anniversary of histo­ry's first nuclear attack, an 
event laden with worldwide 
symbolic significance. 

Last December, the U.S. Postal Service canceled plans to mark the anniversary with a "mushroom cloud" stamp, a design that offended sensibili­ties in Japan, where an esti­mated 210,000 men, women and children died beneath the mushroom clouds of Hiroshima and, three days later, Nagasaki. 
Then, in January, Washing­ton's Smithsonian Institution scaled back a planned exhibit on the Hiroshima bombing af­ter veterans' groups angrily complained that the show's commentary "questions the moral and political wisdom" o the attack.The lone American official invited thus far to the Aug. 6 event is Mayor Jeremy Harris of Honolulu, a Hiroshima "sister city." But the weight of history hangs heavy in Honolulu, too, site of Japan's 1941 surprise attack on Pearl Harbor. 
When he was Honolulu mayor, Frank Fasi, a Marine veteran of the war against Japan, declined repeated offi­cial invitations to Hiroshima. This year, Honolulu's tigli.t fis­cal situation rules out the new mayor's participation, "espe­cially for something very controversial like that," said a source close to Harris, speak­ing on condition of anonymity. 
That would leave only U.S. peace activists and other unof­ficial Americans among the guests, expected to be led by 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. 
TheUniversity of Notre Dame 19th Annual Fashion Show NV RARE ·v FORM March 4th.-1995 Stepan Center Showtime 7:30p.m. -Doors Open at 6:30p.m. Tickets: Students $6.00 o Non-Students $8.00 at the door $10.00 Proceeds will go to the: Thurgood Marshall Scholarship Fund The Center for the Homeless  





VIEWPOINT 
Friday, March 3, 1995 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager john Lucas joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krisra Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's F.ditor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily rdlect the policies of the adminisrra­don of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saine Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the auchors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 S_ystems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 


• I AM NOT A POTTED PLANT 
An open letter to Tom Dooley . • • 
Dear Tom Dooley, 
I know we've never met, sir, but I felt like someone ought to apologize to you for the rest of us here at Notre Dame. I'm sure it's frustrating for you, sitting up there in the clouds (or whatever dimension heaven is in), lis­tening to our dumb arguments. I can't justify what we've been doing, but I did want to try to explain it to you. 
I guess a bunch of people down here have got it in their heads that homosexual acts are OK. I know, I 
Charles Roth 
.... 

know, they have the Church, but they don't believe the Church on this one, sir. I guess they think that the Church is wrong. They look at the scientific evidence, and they can't justify what the Church says. 
What's that? You think they're putting themselves in judgment over God? Well, no, sir, it's not quite like that. They may be judging the Church, but they don't think they're judging God. Maybe you'll find it strange, but all of them (or almost all) say that they do believe in God, and even in the Catholic Church. They just don't believe that a God of love, com­passion, mercy and fairness would allow anybody to be born with a ten­dency toward something sinful (some­thing that God hates). They just don't believe that God hates homosexual acts when they're performed within a loving, caring, monogamous, faithful relationship of shared love. 
That's why they don't feel badly in claiming you as one of their company, 
• 000NESBURY 

The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, March 3, 1995 
By PATTI CARSON 
Assistant Accent Ediror 
W
e all know him. We all love him. He is every student's best friend and probably the most popular guy on campus. He'll be there rain or shine, afternoon or m_idnight, t~roughou~ your whole fo~r year stay in South Bend. He s hot, he s fast, he s cheap. Who 1s he? He's the Papa John's man and he's got your dinner. 
But it's not so easy to be in demand. Do you ever wonder what this guy goes through in one single night? Well, we here at The Observer did. Michael and Allison Patton, owners of the store that services our campuses, were kind enough to let us spend the evening with everyone's favorite delivery guy. We rode for about four hours with Ron Thorp, a three and a half year Papa John's delivery vet­eran. What follows is a behind the scenes look at a night in the life of the pizza guy. 
9:00 p.m. The Anatomy of An Order 
This is where it all begins-behind the counter at Papa Johns' Pizza. "Thank you for calling Papa John's. Will you please hold? (Time lapse). Thanks for waiting. How can I help you? Yes, we have pizza. (Oh my gosh. It's going to be a long night.) Name, address, phone number, 40 minutes or so." The counter-guy takes the dough patty, sifts on the flour, kneads it, slaps it, flips it, spins it, then adds the fixings. Fun fact for today? A large pepperoni pizza at Papa John's gets twenty slices of pepperoni. 
9:15p.m. And They're Off... 
Ron and his Nissan leave the premises in the direction of Howard Hall at Notre Dame. Ron drives his own car to deliver, but he is reimbursed for gas and mileage. Ron was one of four delivery men working on Monday night. And Monday night is supposedly one of the slowest nights at Papa John's. 
Ron's got a Papa John's emblem stuck to the back window. The guard at Steppan watches us pull up. He waves Ron on and raises the gate. Is this every student's dream or what? What a life. The guard sees you, you see the guard, he waves, you're on. It's that easy. Ron explained that Papa John's used to have lighted signs attached to the cars, but sadly enough, the students kept stealing them. "Now we're down to stickers on the windows," he said. 
9:24 Howard Hall: Breadsticks to freshman Deidre Delea 
9:28 Morissey Hall: Large pepperoni Pizza to sophomore Pete Rubinas 
Walsh: Cheesesticks to sophomore Karen Daylor, breadsticks to freshman C:hristine Archibeck 
9:45 p.m. Back to Papa's for more orders On the way back to the store, Ron explained that the average tip per delivery is 
Hot 
Cheap 


Easy 
The Papa John's Buy 
75 cents, but it gets skimpier around spring break. It all evens out, though. "One guy in Flanner tipped me three dollars once," he said. 
9:55 p.m. It's that guy from Dillon again. It's about this time every night that one of the residents in Dillon Hall calls to order pizza. "He's a regular," Samantha Dube, a student worker from McCandless Hall said. "He calls regularly and I know what he'll want as soon as he says his name," she said. 
10:10 p.m. Lewis: Jenny Manning gets her breadsticks. 
10:14 p.m. Pangborn: Chrissy Ciaccio gets her breadsticks. Bystanders look on in jealousy and frustration because they didn't order earlier. As we drive b~ck to the store, Ron tells us of one of his funniest delivery memories. A guy m the marching band ordered a pizza to be delivered to the Snite Museum on a football Saturday at noon. As he marched by, he spotted the delivery man, jumped out of line, paid the man, grabbed his pizza and jumped back in line. What instrument did he play? The drums, of course. 
10:30 p.m. Here we go again McCandless Hall: Breadsticks to Kelly Falcsik. After this, Ron told us a little about the history of Papa John's. Ten years ago in 
southern Indiana, there was this guy who owned a bar. His son, a Ball State grad­uate, worked there. The customers said they wanted something to eat with their beer (go figure) so they started serving pizza in the bar. Soon enough, they were delivering the pizza and before you know it, they had moved the corporate office to Louisville, Kentucky. It all started with one store. Now there are more than 600; some of them are even west of the Mississippi. 
10:45 p.m. Residential delivery. Oh, you mean there are people besides college students who eat pizza around here? Good to know. 
11:00 p.m. LeMans Dilemma . . . 
Ron tries to get through to one of the women who ordered a ~I~za, bl!t her !me. IS busy. And he can't call her neighbor after 10 p.m. because Its agamst secunt;Y measures. So he waits. And waits. And waits. Still busy. Wouldn't it be grand If Saint Mary's had call waiting? Just a thought. Finally, a desk worker runs up to get the girl and she makes it down to the lobby by 11:14 p.m. . 
"Well, I've already had lucky charms, rice cakes, an apple, crackers, and cookies today. But nothing seems to till me up like Papa John's. He's accessible. It's good pizza. It' cheap," she says. 
At this point Ron says a word or two about what he calls "Pizza Awareness." His theory is this: If you order a pizza, stay off the phone. Tell your roommates th~t you ordered it. Forbid them from using the phone or just make sure they answer It when it rings. Also, it helps if you have your money ready If everyone played by these rules, you'd get your pizzas faster. 
On the way to an off campus delivery, Ron tells us another funny story. "Last year, I had to deliver a pizza to Saint Louis Street the night o~ that big 500 person party. Believe it or not, the band stopped, they found the g.rl who ordered, and she got her pizza." 
THIS IS WHERE IT GETS GOOD 
11:45 p.m. We finally make it to the off campus delivery. Ron finds the house. He pounds on the doors, the windows, the house itself. We get blasted with a great but rather lengthy rendition of Pocket Full of Kryptonite. But not until the dru!lls stop do they hear the pounding at the door. Then the members of Shady Elame came to the door. 
"Oh, hey, it's the pizza guy." 
"We order Papa because we get hungry. You see, we discovered it freshman year. We really like the sauce and the peppers. Great pizza," Michael Johnson said. 
Then some guy in the back threw in "Listen to Shady Elaine!" 
12 a.m. Back to headquarters. All four lines are holding. Dough is in the air. The delivery men are off and running. 
Back to all four dorms at Saint Mary's: 
LeMans: Amalia Kokoruda (breadsticks) 
Holy Cross: Steph (pizza), Erin Brophy (breadsticks and cheesesticks) 
McCandless: Ellen (pizza) 
Regina: Sam (breadsticks) 
12:25 a.m. Ron has to hurry to the car because he doesn't want to get a ticket. (Yes, they do give tickets to the pizza delivery men on the Saint Mary's campus.) 
12:45 a.m. Back to the store. Us Observer types call it a night, but Ron is already out the door again. He has a good two more hours ahead of him. And tomorrow, he will be working a 17 hour day. 
' 

'I'll Always Remember' 
65th Annual Bengal Mission Bouts 
Saturday, March 4, 1995. Joyce ACC 8p.m. 
en Jeff Goddard arrived on campus as a freshman three 
nd a half years ago, he wanted only to find his place at 

Notre Dame. 

He first tried baseball, but realized his bat speed wasn't what it needed to be and his fielding looked better to the fans back home in Urbana, Ohio then it did to the Notre Dame coaching staff. 
Goddard stood in limbo, wondering where he would land. He was hoping not to be another star athlete in high school who faded on the college scene. His only glory came during pickup games at The Hock, that is, until the day he heard about the Bengal Bouts, and figured he eould, possibly, be a boxer. He never envisioned himself surrounded by the glamour of the sport, but simply wrapped by a circle of friends with whom he could make his mark. 
"Since that first day, I have loved boxing," Goddard said. ''I'm was just so happy at first that I found my niche on campus." 
As he prepares for his last bout Saturday in the 170-pound final 

"Strong bodies fight that weak bodies may be nourished." 
Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano 

against Todd Murphy. Goddard remembers. He stands on the verge of his third title, the memories of past victories and one bitter defeat flow through his thoughts and dominate his final days as a Bengal Bout competitor 
"I know I will remember so much about my time with the guys and fighting," Goddard said. "I think about the past now and I'm not even done yet. It's hard because this has played such a large part in my life the last four years." 
There was a time when Goddard was nothing more than a name on the Bengal Bouts card. That first year he walked into the boxing room in the Joyce ACC curious and green. But he trained as hard as anyone and won his first two bouts with surprising ease, advancing to the finals. Then he stepped under the lights of the JACC Arena, star­ing across the ring at senior Shane Ilitzman and seeing the two titles 
see GODDARD I page 4 
The Observer ~ Friday, March 3, 1995 
-------------~------------­
Friday, March 3, 1995 
Tile Picks 
D -Sports Editor George Dohrmann N -Associate Sports Editor MikeNorbut 
13Q-ERIC GARCIA VS. Tooo BELL D-Garcia unan. decision N -Garcia split decision 
135-Greg Marks vs. Andy Dicello D -Marks split. decision 
N-Marks unan. decision 
145-Dan Couri vs. Ted Pagano D-Couri unan. decision 
N-Couri unan. decision 
15Q-Matt Kowalsky vs. Nate Mick D-Kowalsky unan. decision 
N-Mick split decision 
155-Chris Rosen vs. John Kmetz D -Rosen unan. decision 
N-Rosen unan. decision 
157-Eric Hillegas vs. 
Butch Cabreros D-Hillegas split decision N -Cabreros split decision 
16Q-Mike Thompson vs. Dan Adams D -Thompson unan. decision 
N-Thompson unan. decision 
165-John Christoforetti vs. 
Pat Dolan D -Christoforetti unan. decision N -Christoforetti unan. decision 
17Q-Jeff Goddard vs. 
Todd Murphy D -Goddard unan. decision N -Goddard split decision 
175-Rob Naticchia vs. 
• Chip Farrell D -Naticchia unan. decision N -Naticchia split decision 
185-Mike Mantey vs. 
Chad Harrison D -Mantey split decision N -Harrison split decision 
\ 
195-Troy Phillips vs. Dave Baker D -Baker split decision 
N-Baker unan. decision 
Heavyweights-Greg Stec vs. Jason Svadeba D -Stec KO Round 2 
George Dohrmann is in his fourth year covering the Bengal Bouts. 
Mike Norbut was a Bengal Bout semifinalist in 1994. 

U
nlike the 1994 field, few boxers have stepped forward this year and distinguished themselves as all-time great Bengal Bout competitors. With the exception ofJeff Goddard's run for his third tide, most ofthe final­ists this year are either looking for the championship that has eluded them or on the verge ofestablishing themselves as top-flight performers. Dan Couri, Mike Mantey, Eric Garcia and Rob Naticchia are after their second tide­looking to show they are anything but one hit wonders. Chris Rosen, Eric Hillegas, John Christoforetti, and Mike Thompson strive for wins after losing in the finals a year ago. Meanwhile, a host ofeager challengers look to pull the upset. A look at each fight on the 1995 
Bengal Bout card: 
160-pound finalist Michael T: .ompson 
Eric Garcia
1•111 

vs Todd Bello 
Eric Garcia is looking strong in his return after falling in the 135-pound semifinals a year ago. He is a fundamentally sound boxer who has proven that he can beat the skilled fighter as well as the brawler. 
He may have problems with senior Todd Bello, a left-handed first-time fighter who has shown good form in his victories over Pete Bancroft and Dan Zepf, the second seed in the division. 
Look for the two boxers to throw a lot of jabs with some controlled flurries from the favorite, Garcia. Because of it being his first year, Bello may come out a little fast in the first round, which could cause him to slow down in the latter part of the bout. 
It looks to be a very close bout that should be decided by a split decision. Because of the boxers' styles, whoever is able to win the first round should be able to pull out the victory. 
1311b Greg Marks vs Andy Dicello 
One of the only weight divisions that went as planned, the first seed, Greg Marks, will take on No. 2 Andy Dicello in Saturday's final. Marks moved into the fmals with unanimous victories over Paul Villa and Ben Decio, while Dicello scored a unanimous decision over Toby Biolchini after recording a knockout over Dennis Joyce in his quarterfinal bout. 
Both boxers are hard-punchers that like to throw combinations. Because of their parity in height, reach should not come into play in this bout, but look for Dicello to open it up with some early flurries. 
Countering will be the key for Marks, 
who sports better fundamentals along with 
a good parrying technique. This fight looks to be a very close matchup between 
two seasoned veterans. Dicello, a junior, is in his third 
year, while Marks, the senior, will light his final bout 
in his four-year career with the Bengal Bouts organi­
zation. 
1451 
takes shots ; winner in 19 this year as t 

page 2-3 

--l 
-· 
-
... 
' 
Dan Couri is a rock. Dan Courl vs Ted Pagano The best conditioned fighter in the Bouts rl delivers them for the full three rounds. He was a surprise . beating the favorite Michael Ahern, but is surprising no one 
. eruisml by his first two opponents. 
dark-horse of all dark-horses in this year's finals. He beat a tmt in Hiek Hodgers but will have to improve even more to eon­ri. In his light with Hodgers, Pagano exploded to an early start ·ind ovnr into the sHcond round. To beat Couri he will need to 1 same, start quick and hope Couri is sleeping. s dose going into tho third Pagano may have a chance but he dl on some unsnen strnngth. Couri will not tire and Pagano has mt hn ean win the final round, losing tho last 1:30 on all cards 
rs. 
155111 
Chris Rosen vs John Kmetz 

away with the title. Kmetz could do the same. He likes to throw, loves to dictate the fight, and will not back away from Hosen. 
This is one of those fights you want say the favorite will win, but no way on the green ~arth would you lay money on it. Rosen has the talent and certainly the desire but if he doesn't tight his game, Kmetz will win. 
In many ways, Mike Thompson is the Michael Thompson VS Dan Admas Steve Clar of this year's Bouts. In 19lJ4, Clar 
160 lb 
methodically walked to the title. The fans booed him because he wasn't pretty or because he didn't knock his opponents around. lie just 
Will the real Chris Rosen please stand up. After hollering to the boxing com­munity that the undisciplined version of himself was gone, Hosen reverted back, swinging like a spinning windmill in his narrow win over Brendan McGuire. Hosen, when he wants to be, is one of the more gifted fightnrs around but when he slips he is vulnerable, as McGuire showed. 
John Kmetz is no Brendan McGuire. He is much better. Hosen was upset by an aggressive fighter in 1994 when Rob Ganz charged and charged and ran 
won. Much is the same with Thompson. After losing in the finals a year ago Thompson has set his mind to the task and breezed to finals with easy wins over Joe Zirnhelt and Mike Wigton. 
Adams' first fight came in the semis where he battered Brad Parker, a decent fighter but not the cal­iber of Thompson. This, unlike the fight that precedes it, is one to bet on. All experts point to Thompson and he has yet to disappoint. He's not flashy, but come Saturday evening will be in the same position Clar was-first. 

John Christoloretti vs Pat Dolan 
This will be a very interesting bout between two boxers with only one· fight of experience between them this year. John Christoforetti, a sophomore, received a bye in the quarterfinals and had a walkover in the semifinals due to an injury to challenger Rob Piecuch. 
Freshman Pat Dolan recorded a knockout in his first bout over Dan Bergan, but, like his competitor Christoforetti, had a walkover when his semifinal opponent, Jack MacLeod, could not compete 
due to injury.Dolan looked impressive in his first bout on Sunday, but look for him to have problems with the quick and powerful Christoforetti. The sophomore carries with him years of kick-boxing experience along with one year in the Bengal Bouts, in which he went lost a split decision to two-time champion Jeff Goddard. Look for Dolan to come out fast, trying to throw the favorite off-balance. Don't expect Christoforetti to lose his composure too easily, though. 
This bout between Rob Naticchia and Chip Farrell should be one of the 
1751b 
bouts' finest shows. Farrell, a native Rob Naticchia of South Bend and son of Bengals trainer Pat, is a crowd favorite and a
vs 

very skilled boxer for a freshman. He
Chip Farrell 
won both of his bouts thus far by split decisions, Wednesday's win being an upset over second seed Bob Lalor. 
Naticchia, last year's champion at 175 pounds, received a bye in the quarterfinals and was able to defeat a taller Pat Keaney by a unanimous decision in the semifinals. 
Naticchia carries the total package with him into his sec­ond consecutive finals bout. He is a very aggressive fighter with quick, strong punches that can devastate. 
One area the senior lacks in, however, is defense. A key for Farrell will be his quick jab and his ability to wrap the champion up when he makes a charge. 
This will be a very tight matchup between a stiff, up­right fighter in Mike Mantey and a fluid, deceptive Chad Harrison. Mantey has boxed for only :16 so far this year 
185 lb 
Mike Mantey vs Chad Harrison 
after capturing the 180-pound title a year ago. His semifinal fight with junior Dave Harris was stopped due to a doctor's decision to take Harris out of the fight. 
Harrison defeated a taller op­ponent in Matt Mulderrig on Wednesday, using his slip technique to get inside, enabling him to land 
some effective body shots before working his opponent's head. For his success to continue, he will need to use the same strategy against the taller Mantey. 
Harrison surprised Mulderrig with his quickness in his semifinal bout, and he may be able to do the same against the sophomore Mantey, who holds the only chance in the next four years to become the eighth 
145-pound 
finalist Dan 
Couri 
Jen Goddard

170 lb 
vs Todd Murphy 
see cover story 
This bout may come up

1951b 
and surprise 

li'oy Phillips some people. Few no what to
vs 
expect from

Dave Baker 
both boxers. 

One certainty is that both can hit. Phillips dropped Dan O'Rourke 40 seconds into the sec­ond round during the semifinals, and Baker floored Jake Lustig a little over a minute into his open­ing fight. 
Insiders say Baker is an athlete who can move, and matched up well with heavyweight favorite Greg Stec during sparring ses­sions. 
Few can ignore what Phillips did in his first fight. He may be a bit · stronger than Baker and will be looking to move his opponent around the ring. 
Baker, who is an excellent bas­ketball player, will need to keep moving and not get into a brawl with Phillips. 
Text by George Dohrmann and Mike Norbut Photos by Kyle Kusek 
thn Bouts usns the jab more nll'nctively than senior Nate Mick. The squar­~ttivn looks nothing like a finesse lighter with his short arms and stocky frarnn, yet his strength is in his head. Matt Kowalsky is the favorite in this fight and with good reason. 
... lie dominated his quarterfinal and semifinal bouts against David Bradshaw and Shawn Hamer. lie brings the eomplete package into tho ring. lin moves well and will always play the aggressor. 
ky Thn key for both fighters centers around Mick's jab. If Mick is able to stick it and leave it in Kowalsky's face then he can be as effective as lw was in tho early rounds. If Kowalsky can slip the jab, Mick is in for a long evening 
I.t 

Everyone is buzzing about Greg Stec. The former foot­11 ball player dropped forty pounds to compete in the
H.VJWIII 
Bouts and has been impressive since the start. lie is strong quick and will be rested come Saturday after not
Greg Stec 

lighting in either the first or second rounds. 
vs 

Svadeba is a South Bender with good hands and adequate
Jason Svadeba 
strength. He opened some eyes with the way he manhandled Brady Curtis in the semifinals. Insiders are playing wait and see with Stec. He is a mystery to the fans but not to the boxers who know he can deliver the blows. But the competitors were elated when Svadeba advanced because if anyone can compete with Stec, Svadeba can, and in the Bouts' featured event anything can happen. 

-
Friday, March 3, I995 The Observer • SPORTS EXTRA 

Happy Birthday Bouts 
N
otre Dame's Bengal Bouts 
turns 65 this year. It can 
now officially start collect­
ing social security. 
But in no way does it need to. 

Because in an era of clocks, cal­endars and carbon dating, the Irish boxing club remains ageless. It doesn't need a facelift or Pearl Cream to retain its natural beauty. 
65 years. Just think what this organization has seen. 
Bengal Bouts has outlived com­munism. It has watched the Great Depression come to an end, Hitler come and go.About the only thing it hasn't seen is the Cubs winning the World Series. 
But realistically, you don't have to look past the boxing realm to get a good dose of history. The Bengal Bouts tradition is thicker than the walls of Stonehenge. 
65 years . .. of teaching and 
helping the students of Notre 
Dame. From the days of Dominic J. 
"Nappy" Napolitano to the coordi­
nators and trainers of today, noth­
ing has changed in terms of the 
message taughts. Even the faces 
haven't changed that much. 

Knute Rockne and Nappy were 
friends. It was the legendary foot­
ball coach who started the pro­
gram in 1924 in order to give the 
boys something to do during the 
winter. Napolitano took over in 
1930 and ran the Bouts for 50 
years before retiring in 1981. 

65 years. .. of healthy com­
petition. Now matter how much 
you may dislike the idea of boxing, 
you have to acknowledge the dedi­
cation and preparation that each 
athlete puts in just to get a chance to step in the ring. 
One chance, 4 1/2 minutes. Or, if you're lucky enough to make Mike Norbut the finals, six minutes. 

Six weeks of sweat for one week of having the spotlight, which sur­rounds the champions. 
Champions like The Five Fighting McGraths, Kerry Waite and Jeff Gerber. These are the names that people remember. Anyone who steps in the ring, though, is a true champion. 
It's those boxers that make up 
the heart of Bengal Bouts. Sure, 
the finals will showcase the best of 
the bunch, but they would not be 
seen as the best if they didn't have 
to get by two other fighters. 

The competition grows every 
year. There were 92 participants 
in this year's tournament, requir­
ing a card of 13 weight divisions. 
65 years . .. of helping the needy 
and underprivileged. 

Since the days of Nappy, all of 
the proceeds earned by the Bouts 
goes to help the people of 
Bangladesh. 

So Sally Struthers was telling the 
truth. But what she has been say­
ing for five years the Holy Cross 
Mission, Nappy and the Bengal 
Bo"uts has known all along. 

It looks like Nappy's line still 
holds. 

"Strong bodies fight, that weak 
bodies may be nourished." 

A perfect sentence to describe a 
perfect organization. Happy 
Birthday, Bengal Bouts. 
May you live to see 165. 

Goddard 
continued from page 1 
Hitzman had already won. 
Hitzman's third crown came at Goddard's expense. 
"I think about that fight all the time, when I am running or training, I think about it and wish I could have it back. But I know if I was a freshman again, and fought the same fight, I would lose. But I look at where I am now and just wish I could fight him now." 
Goddard fought like a freshman against Hitzman, passive and unsure. It would be his only loss as a boxer. 
But Goddard doesn't dwell on the loss. 
He wishes dearly he could have joined the 
Bengal Bout elite, being the eighth man to 
win four Bengal Bout titles. But Hitzman 
won and if he didn't, Goddard may not be 
in the position he is now. 
''I've grown each year as a fighter. Just having one year under your belt makes all the difference in the ring. My second year, I was confident and knew that I could win the title." 
He did by beating Kevin Mullaney easily. 
"I sat and looked all year at my runner-up 
jacket all year. All it did was remind me 
that I had lost," Goddard said after the 
fight when asked about his motivation. 
His motivation in 1994 was simple, 
repeat. Goddard was well on his way, 
breezing to the finals where he hit a tall 
speed bump in the form of freshman John 
Christoforetti (the favorite in the 165­
pound division). Neither fighter may have 
seen it at the time, but each was looking in 
a mirror when they stared across at one 
another. Christoforetti may look back at 
his narrow loss freshman year, as Goddard 
does with the Hitzman bout, and ponder 
the possibility. 

"I felt so much pressure last year 
because people were expecting me to 
repeat," Goddard said. "I knew what a 
good fighter John was and he showed it. I page 4 
knew it was a close fight and I feel lucky to have won." 
Goddard has anxiously waited for 1995, his final run in the Bouts and year as pres­ident of the boxing club. What Goddard didn't expect was his picture on the cover of the Bengal Bout poster-shirtless in a empty gym. wrapping his hands. 
"I get a lot of flack for that," Goddard said. ''I'm a little embarrassed by it, but also happy that we have a current boxer not an old one on the poster and the pro­grams. 
"It's been a joke for a lot of people. Girls come up and joke with me and say that all the posters in the halls have been ripped off and are now above girls' beds. It's funny but I look at it as an honor. I'm just happy that the other boxers thought I should be on the poster." 
It isn't uncommon for children to 
approach Goddard before fights and ask 
for his autograph. He laughs when you call 
him famous, but then two more children 
shove paper in his lap as he sits ringside. 
It will be one more fond memory for 
Goddard if he can top Murphy and capture 
his third title. He should win, is expected 
to, the role of the heavy favorite is now old 
hand. 
"All I want to think about is Murphy. 
That's what is important. But it is hard to 
stay focused when I am busy running 
around helping organize things and also 
knowing that this is going to be my last 
fight." 
Goddard insists this won't be his last 

Bouts. As a fighter, yes, but he can't help 
but return in the future. 
"I know I will be like (Bouts coordinator) 

Terry Johnson or (trainer) Pat Farrell­
coming back and helping out when I get 
older. I couldn't not be a part of all of this. 
"The guys here are all my friends and I 

know that I will remember Saturday night 
and every night I've had in the Bouts for 
the rest of my life. 
"This is what college was all about for 

me." 
Drawing Will Be 3pm Today At The ND Bookstore! 
• 

Enter To Win A Free Pair OfTom Petty Tickets In Our Music Section Today! 
See His Live Show At 
A.C.C. On 
March 3rd! 
Friday, March 3, 1995 The Observer•WEEKENU 
The Observer/ Tina Lemker 
Dinner's here! One more happy customer gets a Papa John's delivery from Ron Thorp. 
Ron's pick1 Cheesesticks and Italian Sausage pizza. 
Picking the Plzza~u 
The choices for on·campus 
IBzaHut
pizza delivery are numerous. From local parlors to chain Large, One Topping Pizza XLarge, One Topping Pizza names, the variety can be $11.28 $10.50 intimidating. Here is abrief 12 Slices I 14" 15 Slices I 20"

$ $ 
summary of what you can expect from the most popular. Delivery Time ~~:,*' ~··:~·-
DeliveryTime
Varies 45 min. -1 hr. : 
• mino's II 
-Large, One Topping Pizza 
Large, One Topping Pizza $5.99 (Special) $5.00 (Special) $ 12 Slices I 15" $.. 8 Slices I 14" Large, One Topping Pizza 
$9.20 Delivery Time 
Delivery Time 
8 Slices I 14" About 20 min. 10-15 min. Delivery Time 30-40 min. 
Papa John's Mission Statement 
To deliver the perfect pizza by exceeding the needs and expectations of our customers, franchise family, and employees . 
One more stop on a normal Monday night. 

Saturday 
•3 P.M. NO MEN'S TENNIS VS• ILLINOIS, ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
•7. 
P.M. PANGBORN'S PRICE IS RIGHT, ·wASHINGTON HALL •7: 15 8c 9:45P.M. QUIZ SHOW, ANNENBURG AUDITORIUM e8 8c 10:30 P.M. INTERVIEW WITH A VAMPIRE, CUSHING 

• 
10~30 P..M. STORYTELLING, 


"LIVES OF THE ARTISTS," SNITE AUDITORIUM 
Sunday 
.•12 P.M.. NO WOMEN'S TENNIS VS. WAKE FOREST, ECK TENNIS PAVILION 
•3 P.M. NO MEN'S TENNIS VS. :.IOWA., ECK TENNIS PAVILION -e P.M.. HARLEM GLOBETROTTERS,JACC 
Movies 
·•CALL 277-7336 
UNIVERSITY PARK EAST 
PULP FICTION 2, !5: 15,8:45 
THE HUNTED 1:.AO. 4:40, 7:20, 
9:40 L£GENDS OF THE FALL 4, 6:45 .BILLY MADISON 1:45, 9:20 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST (MALL) BRADY BUNCH 2:15. 4:30. 
6:4!5, g 

BoYS ON THE SIDE 2:30. 4:!50~ -7. 9~40 
WALKING DEAD 7:15, 9:20 
~--­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 3, 1995 

•NFL 

Holyfield preparing to make Browns want Simms 
comeback against Mercer 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Former heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield, who retired last April because of a heart ailment, is returning to the ring for a May 20 fight against Ray Mercer in Atlantic City, N.J. 
Main Events, Holyfield's promoter, has called a Monday news conference to officially announce the bout. 
Holyfield hasn't applied for a license to box in New Jersey, but the state's ath­letic commissioner said the former champion should have no difficulty obtaining one. 
"Evander appears to be the most test­ed athlete in any sport known to man, to date," commissioner Larry Hazzard said. "So, for that reason, I don't think he'll have any problem." 
Hazzard said his opinion was "based on the documents that I have carefully reviewed, based on the discussion that I have had with his personal physician, based on the discussion I have had with his physician at the Mayo Clinic." 
Hazzard said the tests from the Mayo Clinic "seem to imply" that Holyfield doesn't have a serious heart condition. 
Holyfield is flying to New Jersey on Friday to watch a fight card in Atlantic City and will apply for his license in the next couple of days, said Mike Boorman, a spokesman for Main Events. 
Holyfield, once the undisputed world heavyweight champion, announced his retirement shortly after losing the WBA and IBF titles to Michael Moorer in Las Vegas. 
Holyfield was hospitalized immediately after the fight and then flown to his hometown of Atlanta, where he was diagnosed with an enlarged heart and a ventricle problem. 
Last week, the Nevada State Athletic Commission lifted a suspension imposed after Holyfield was diagnosed with heart problems. However, commission mem­bers stopped short of endorsing Holyfield's plan to fight again, saying there still were questions that needed to be answered before he could be licensed in the state. 
"This is not to say we will issue Evander Holyfield a license," said Dr. James Nave, the commission chairman. "It is to say we will not sit up here being pompous and say another state can't." 
By CHUCK MELVIN 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio 

Former New York Giants quarterback Phil Simms and his agent met with the Cleveland Browns on Thursday, but couldn't reach a deal to make Simms a backup to starter Vinny Testaverde. 
"We just got in a couple of hours ago," Simms' agent, David Fishof, said late Thursday afternoon. "Because of the financial situation, we're still going to continue to work on the contract. We still have things we have to work out." 
Fishof emphasized that Simms would like to play for Browns coach Bill Belichick, a former Giants defensive coordinator. 
Testaverde's backup last season was veteran Mark Rypien, who is a free agent. 
Simms did not attend the news confer­ence. He and Fishof planned to fly back to New York later Thursday evening, Fishof said. 
The Browns said they're still interested in the quarterback, who sat out last sea­son. 
"We'll just keep talking," Browns director of player personnel Mike Lombardi said. "David and I have made deals before. If there's a deal to be made, we'll make it." 
Simms, 39, the leading passer in Giants history, retired last year and spent the 1994 season as an analyst for ESPN. He led the Giants to an 11-5 record and a playoff berth in 1993, but had offseason shoulder surgery and was cut by Giants coach Dan Reeves. 
Simms spent 15 seasons with the Giants, passing for 33,462 yards and 199 touchdowns. He hit 22 of 25 passes for 268 yards and three touchdowns in the 1987 Super Bowl. 
Simms was bitter about his treatment by the Giants, saying the team simply didn't want to pay his salary -slated to be more than $2 million last year. 
Simms talked with the Arizona Cardinals in September, but couldn't reach a financial agreement. So he stayed with ESPN, working in the studio and on highlights and analyses shows. 
Predictions that Simms would sign with the Browns on Thursday were rife. Browns owner Art Modell said Thursday the excitement was "premature." 
"We had a good day, a good conversa­tion," Modell said. "We just haven't arrived at a deal. 
Modell wouldn't say what contract issues remain. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
LOST: BLUE NAUTICA JACKET  Nothing to do during Lent? Don't  • REM Ticket for Sale •  Mardi Gras Mambo 95'  • • • THANK YOU! • • •  
NOTICES  AT CORBY'S LAST THURSDAY IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL.  give up eating stale bread and beat­las. Join a prayer group! To find  Kansas City ~ May 27 Best Offer-Christian x1181  1. Scary thought: Soley monster meets ski's full moon.  This is a thank you to all of the peo­ 
REWARD. MIKE x4332  out more about a morning  2.Asher, wear boxers when you  ple who have been so very support­ 
·­ ATIENTION SOPHOMORES: Are you looking for that service pro·  Somebody accidentally picked  (10 or 1030am) prayer group on weekday mornings during Lent,  PERSONAL  drop trou 3.Cujo, the front man and his  ive to the GAY, LESBIAN, BISEXUAL and QUESTIONING  
ject that really makes a difference,  up the wrong black sportcoat at  please call Mark @271-1400  unused condom collection  COMMUNITY. We as Queer Folk  
and is a lot of fun? Look no fur·  the Grace/Fianner SYR last Fri.  000 The Copy Shop 000  4.Here comes Hurrricane Cobain  here at the University just want you  
ther...  My ID is in the inside pocket  WANTED: 1985-88 CHEVY BLAZ­ LaFortune Student Center  5.Shaeffe the trip home wasn't hor­ to know that your efforts help us in  
please return to Calvin Nelson  ER OR GMC JIMMY. GOOD CON­ WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  rendo  accepting ourselves, helped some  
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS  214 Grace 4-1598  DITION. 272-9402.  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  6.Quinn : The Bead Barterer  people COME OUT, and made us  
SERVICE PROJECT  CONVENIENCE! II  feel all WARM and HAPPY inside!  
Youth Mentoring at the NE  LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT  FOR RENT  Phone 631-COPY  Come dance all night to the hot rythms of  We love you!  
Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS  AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10  LISTEN TO US!! I  
AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30·4:30  (FISHER-WALSH DANCE)  'What do they call a whopper?"'"'!  MICHELLE AND KRISTA  SABOR LATINO  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  
meet at room 161 or Main Circle  PLEASE CALL CINDY AT  don't know, I didn't go to Burger  WVFI AM 640 FRIDAY'S  CAN YOU DRAW WELL  
Questions?· Brian Tierney x1058  273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.~  King," but i'll give ya my pulp fiction  11:30 TO 1:30 WE'RE REALLY  tonight, 10:30 pm-2 am  Would you Like to be a part  
REWARDIIIII  knowledge & buy you BKor what­ COOL AND SINGLE TOO.  Club 23  of ANTOST AL?  
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms  ever ya want if ya give me a ride  If so, come to the SUB office this  
for Graduation weekend. Minimum  FOUND: One umbrella, engraved  home for break to Dallas/Houston  Moving to L.A. area after gradua­ Are you a Willy?  Friday to audition as a:  
stay of two nights required. $125  handle outside South Dining Hall.  area$$$$Piease help me, i have big  tion. Need female roommate.  Are you looking for love?  'Butt-sketch artist'  
advance deposit per room.  Call 259-3267 and ask for Umbrella  bucks to give ya$$$$call Andy  Call Jill x4757  The girls of 4A (and a little of 4B)  'Posterior pictographer'  
Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll  Boy to identify.  @4-1670  are taking applications for Willy  'Derriere drawer'  
Road, 15 miles from Campus. Send  Bevin and Theresa need a ride to  Boyfriends Today!  (All the same position -yes it pays)  
request by mail to 3011 Belvedere  LOST on TUES 2/28 REWARD!  BEAUTIFUL 4-bedroom house for  the Boston area for Spring  Looking for speed and style.  
Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514 or fax to 219­ CHARCOAL GREY Waterman  rent. Prefer female roommates.  Break. Leave 3/10. Will pay for gas  Keenan Dawgs! Keenan Dawgs!  March 3, 3-5pm, 2nd floor LaFort.  
262-1590.  FOUNTAIN PEN. 21st Bday pre­ $225 + util. Call Natalie 291-5466.  and provide groovy conversation.  Arf! Arf! Arf!  CALL TRIXIE @4-4877 for info.  
sent from family.  Call X2533 and ask for Shaggy.  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PLEASE call ANNE X4293  HOMES FOR RENT  To The King Who Sings:  $Thisis paidThisispaidThisis paid$  
SPRING BREAK MONEY  NEAR CAMPUS  Need ride to Eau Claire, WI for  We think your tricks are pretty  
MORRISSEY LOAN FUND MON.-FRI. 11:30-12:30  WANTED  232-2595  Spring Break. Off 1-94 to Mlps./St. Paul. Will help pay/drive. Beth  funny, but try them again and you'll be sorry.  ...and they named the fish Ditka.  
NEXT TO INFO. DESK IN LaFORT.  LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR­ X2479  There was much rejoicing.  
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS &  HOOD FURNISHED HOMES  Desperately seeking ride to Padre  
STAFF BOYS SPORTS  NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT  Looking for a ride to Louisiana over  for Spring Break. Will split gas and  SABOR LATINO  
INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE  CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY  SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3-8  spring break. Will pay big bucks  tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at  
Showing Friday & Saturday  RMIBD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL  STUDENTS 2773097  and help with gas/driving  x2702.  Tonight I 10:30 pm  
Cushing Auditorium 8/1030  ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL  MattX3584  Club 23  
$2 Brought to you by SUB  IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball,  FOR SALE  (can even give you a place to stay if you need it)  LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER -I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9  Dancing all night long I  
part time help wanted  Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf,  to a 3 in 8 weeks, without  
filing, answering phones  Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse,  IBM386-25mhz,80Mb Hd,4 MB  Do you know any of these  drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural  SABOR LATINO  
684-8300  Lifeguard, Nature, Nurses,  RAM,DOS 6.1,WIN  turkeys??  product-guaranteed results! Kelly  
Photography, Piano, Pool,  3.1 ,3.5"&5.25",Modem,soft­ ADAM HICKS  (800)209-2150.  
DO EUROPE  Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes,  ware.$600 or best. Call Sean x0519  LISA McDONALD  Happy B-day Mikey Cummings  
$229 anytime!  Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer,  or x3790.  MKKENNEDY  2 LUSTY BABES  !@#$that role ....  
•• FREE Brochure••  Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski,  JERRY LAVIN  need ride to Key West. Call Kim  Don't jump on that racin' schtuff.  
Also cheap fares worldwide  Windsurfing, Weights, Wood,  2-0akhill Condos.  MEGHAN McGRIFF  x4528 or Colleen 287-7353 and  from the guys that apriciate your  
AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009  Yearbook. Call or write: Camp  3-levels wllower walkout, 3 BAS,  MELISSA KOLSKI  give your best offer.  ability to be stupid.  
Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite  3 Baths-$99,900  CARMEN WALKER  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  406E, Boca Raton, FL 33431,  2 Brs, 2 Baths, spiral staircase  KAREN KAPUSNAK  Need a job for next year???  MD, BK, CR, JH, and ER·  
Are you going to read those things  (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on  & garage -$78,500  JEANINE WYNTON  Student Activities is now accepting  our Corona is only seven days  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am·  Each unit includes: fireplace,  CHARITY RIECK  applications for 95-96 for:  away I  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room ­ appliances, pool & clubhouse  CRAIG PINZA  LaFortune Building Managers  Love CB  
ILOST & FOUND I  Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ment needed.  Coldwell Banker-277-8000 Ruth Ann Smith-288·8875  LARA WAL TEAS JEREMY "OTIS" DIXON MOLLY McLAUGHLIN  Stepan Center Managers Information Desk Attendants Gorch Games Room  To My Silly Old Bear, I would rather be dysfunctional  
TENNIS JOBS-SUMMER BOYS  Clarion Car Stereo-AM/FM/Cass  KATE TELESCA  Building Set Up Crew  with you in the real world than  
REWARD OFFERED for KEYS  CAMP-NORTHEAST-LOOKING  Detachable Face; High Power;  JIM BOYLE  24 Hr. Lounge Monitors  bored with anyone else.  
lost somewhere between C1  FOR STAFF WITH GOOD TENNIS  CD Changer Ready; Top of the  OFELIA SOBALVARRO  Ballroom Monitors  One year isn't nearly long enough.  
and the Rock. Please call  BACKGROUND WHO CAN TEACH  Line; 1 yr old. $200. Call1-8817.  BRIAN ZELIZO  Irish Express Workers  Much Love,  
232-1348.  CHILDREN TO PLAY TENNIS.  Then come see them perform their  Office Assistants  Your Crazy Girl  
GOOD SALARY, ROOM &  For Sale: one Tom Petty ticket.  hearts out in the SOPHOMORE  Applications in Student Activities,  
BOARD, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE.  Only $30! CALL Caroline at  FOUR Ill 4 quick, fun one-acts  315 LaFortune. Deadline March 10.  
!!!!!!!!!!!! LOST WATCH !111!1!!!1!1!!!!!  CALL OR WRITE: CAMP WINADU,  284-4435  acted and sponsered by the class  smooth euchre move, erin.  
!lost my watch in O'shag on 2-16.  2255 GLADES RD., SUITE 406E,  of '97. March 6 and 7 at 8pm in  NEEDED--Ride to and from  
It has a wide black band with a white face. The numbers on the  BOCA RATON, FL 33431 800-494­6238. RECRUITER WILL BE ON  TICKETS  Lafortune Ballroom. 2$ donation  Pensacola,FL or anywhere close for Spring Break. Will help with costs.  I don't think you're supposed to eat the seeds.  
face are written in Cherokee. The  CAMPUS 3/6-DOOLEY ROOM­ GOOD LUCK EISLER AND  Call MATI x3895.  
designer's name is on the face ­ LAFORTUNE  ROUNDTRIP TICKET TO DEN­ THE ND HOCKEY TEAM!  watch out for the coconut milk I!  
VER: Mar 11 -Mar 19, $230 OBO,  YOU GUYS ARE GREAT!  We drove 800 miles without seeing  
"Chad Smith". If you found this  NEED RIDE TO NORTH CAROLI­ Chris X3054  a cop, got rock and roll music blast·  look out, we're on the mango  
watch, PLEASE consider returning  NA FOR BREAK, PREFERRABL Y  Need to rent 2 bdrm. apt.  ing off the t-top  search!!  
it to me. It's very important to me.  GREENSBORO/WINSTON SALEM  LED ZEP TIX 4 SALE  at Turtle Creek for summer.  
If you have seen this watch please  AREA WILL HELP PAY FOR GAS  PlanVPage Chicago 4/28  If you have 12 mo. lease,  Going 2 or thru Iowa 4 break? I  This time next week, WE'RE ON  
call Nancy, 277-0655. REWARD.  AND TOLLS Call Matt at x3244  x2264  call Laura x4541  need a ride! Jim x4333  OUR WAY II! (weehoo, yippee)  

-

• 

PREJUDICE REDUCTION ORKSHOP 

. I 
lfyou are interested in learning how to confront oppression, then sign up now! 
, 

The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity worl(shop. 
Limited Enrollment-Call Immediately 
SATURDAY, MARCH 25 
8:00 A.M. -3:00 P.M. 
EARTH SCIENCE BUILDING ROOM 101 
BREAKFAST AND LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
Contact: Mickey Franco • 631-4355 Adele Lanan • 631-7308 
_...__ 
.~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 3, 1995 
•NBA 

Cavaliers top Mavs UMass, Rutgers to finish 
By JIM O'CONNELL suspended. for safety and secu­counts for us being prepared
in battle of wounded 
• Associated Press rity reasons. There were no and being ready to do some 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Round up the injured players for the Dallas Mavericks and Cleveland Cavaliers and the result would be a team to chal­lenge for the NBA title. 
The Mavericks were able to rope without their top two scor­ers Thursday night, using Jason Kidd's three-point play with 
2:36 remaining to snap a tie and beat the Cavaliers.90-84. 
Dallas was without Jim .Jackson and Jamal Mashburn, who combine to average nearly 50 points per game. Jackson is sidelined indefinitely with a sprained left ankle and Mashburn has a sore right hip, stemming from an adverse reaction to an injection for strep throat. 
The wounded for the Cava­

liers  included  Mark  Price,  
Tyrone  Hill  and  Brad  
Daugherty.  

"We said before the game that if you took the people that were on the bench for both teams, it would make a nice playoff team," Mavericks coach Dick Motta said. "There were a lot of guys sitting tonight but there were also a lot of guys playing." 
Dallas made up for their two big guns, getting 18-point per­formances from Kidd, Lucious Harris and Roy Tarpley and 16 points from George McCloud. 
Kidd rolled in a spectacular left-handed layup and added a free throw to give Dallas a 79­76 lead with 2:36 to play. 

"I love to be in that situation, with the game on the line and the ball in my hands," Kidd said. "We were missing 50 points in Jimmy and Jamal, sure, but we've overcome obstacles before." 
Kidd has stepped up his scor­ing in the three games since Jackson's injury, averaging 
17.3 points and shooting 50 percent. 
His two free throws with 3:26 left had pulled Dallas into a 76­76 tie. John Williams' layup had drawn the Cavaliers to 80­78 but Kidd fed McCloud for a layup as the Mavericks in­creased their advantage to 82­78 with 1:22 to play. 
Chris Mills, who paced the Cavs with 16 points, missed two free throws with 40.3 seconds left, then Tarpley converted two foul shots with 38.8 sec­onds left to push Dallas' lead to 84-78. Dallas converted all eight free throws in the final 
38.8 seconds to seal the vic­tory.Dallas seemed on the verge of pulling away, building a 71-62 lead with 7:50 to play on Tarpley's 15-footer. 
But Cleveland, which had beaten Dallas in six of the pre­vious seven meetings, re­
-Sponded with a 9-0 run capped by Ferry's 3-pointer with 5:37 remaining, tying it 71-71. 
PHILADELPHIA 

Twenty-four days after it was interruppted by a student protest, the game between Massachusetts and Rutgers will be completed: 20 minutes on a neutral court with nobody quite sure of the proper decorum for playing half a game. 
The three biggest questions Friday at the Spectrum will be: 
-Should players warm up harder or longer than usual because they will only play half as long as they usually do? 
-Should the coaches double their intensity because of the lack of comeback time should they fall behind? 
"My question is," Massachusetts coach John Calipari said, "is halftime going to be at 10 minutes? We'll go in for like a 15-minute break. I don't know how it's going to be." 
No one does because sus­pended games are extremely rare in college basketball. 
"There was nobody to call and ask for advice," Rutgers coach Bob Wenzel said. 
On Feb. 7, Rutgers held a 31­29 halftime lead over then-No. 4 Massachusetts when about 150 Rutgers students staged a protest over a racially inflam­matory statement made by school president Francis Lawrence in a November speech. The students refused to leave 
· the court and the game was 
problems in the Scarlet Knight's three home games since then, but the Atlantic 10 decided the completion would be played in Philadelphia, where the league's postseason tournament will get under way on Saturday. 
"We determined the game should be completed at a neu­tral site and since Philadelphia is the host for our tournament we felt it would be convenient for both schools to have it there," Atlantic 10 commis­sioner Linda Bruno said . 
The half will have ramifica­tions on the tournament as a victory by Rutgers (12-13, 7-8 Atlantic 10) would put them sixth in the league, and thus change the pairings for the quarterfinals. 
''I'm not saying we were going to win, but the scene was set for us, a sellout crowd of 9,000, we had the lead, no Marcus Camby," Wenzel said. "Now we're playing at four in the afternoon in Philadelphia. It's a totally different situation." 
The eighth-ranked Minutemen (22-4, 12-3) already clinched the regular-season title. 
"I was going to go out in a sweatsuit to coach the game," Calipari said. "I told the staff we'd just go out in sweatsuits. And then they were like 'Yeah, then our guys will act like it's not a game.' And they're right. So we're going to prepare like it's a regular game. That it things." 
Calipari since suspended se­nior guard Mike Williams, the team's best outside shooter, for the remainder of the season for unspecified violations of team rules. 
Wenzel since suspended ju­nior forward Charles Jones for the rest of the season for acad­emic reasons. 
Both played in the first half ­Williams was 1-for-4 from the field and had three points, while Jones was 0-for-5 and had one point. They will be in the boxscore that comes out af­ter the game and the stats will be added to their totals, so two players not even playing will see their shooting percentages fall without taking a shot. 
Camby, Massachusetts' sopho­more center, wasn't even in the Rutgers Athletic Center when the first half was played. He missed parts of four games with a strained right hamstring; the Rutgers game was one of them, two of the three were losses. 
Since Camby wasn't in the scorebook for the first half, it will mean a technical foul against Massachusetts when he reports in the game. 
"The whole thing is, when you're down four, which is what we're going to be down because I don't know if you think I'm smart, but we're go­ing to exchange two foul shots for Marcus Camby, so we're going to be down four," Calipari said. 


Friday, March 3, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• NHL ROUNDUP 
Buffalo stops Penguins behind red-hot Hasek 
Associated Press 
Wayne Presley scored two ~oals, and the Buffalo Sabres killed seven minutes of penal­Lies in the third period to beat lhe Pittsburgh Penguins 6-3 Thursday night. 
Presley started the scoring in lhe first period and put the P·1mguins away with 5:24 re­maining in the game with a short-handed goal to give the Sabres a 5-3 lead. lie picked up a loose puck near the blue line, faklld Wendell Young to his knees and slid the puck into the net for his sixth goal of the sea­-;on. 
Donald Audette scored the game-winner in the second pe­riod, and Brad May added an r>mpty-net goal with one second left in the game. 
Derek Plante and Alexander Mogilny also scored for Buffalo. Chris Joseph, Jaromir Jagr and Joe Mullen scored for the Penguins, who suffered their second loss in three games af­ter starting the season 12-0-1. 
Dominik Hasek stopped 27 shots for the Sabres and held Pittsburgh scoreless during a live-minute penalty to Presley and a minor penalty to Alexei Zhitnik. 
Buffalo led by two goals three times in the first two periods only to have Pittsburgh come back each time. 
Mogilny had given Buffalo a 3-1 lead when his weak slap shot got past Young, who replaced Ken Wregget to start the second period. Wregget had started 19 of the Penguins first 20 games. 

Jagr scored his third short­handed goal and 16th of the season when took a pass from Larry Murphy at the blue line, fought off Buffalo's Doug Bodger and beat Hasek to the stick side 4:22 into the second period. 
Ulf Samuelsson was thrown out of the game in the second period when he lost his temper in the penalty box while argu­ing a hooking call made by ref­eree Dan Marouelli. 
Bruins 7, Devils 2 
Bryan Smolinski scored three times and Mats Naslund got his first NHL goal in five years Thursday night as the Boston Bruins beat New Jersey 7-2. 
Blaine Lacher, the NHL rookie of the month for February, made 30 saves. The Bruins matched their biggest output of the season despite losing lead­ing goal-scorer Cam Neely to an early fighting penalty and get­ting outshot (32-18) for the first time all year. 
With the Bruins holding a 1-0 lead at 3:29 of the first, Claude Lemieux hit Neely in the head with his stick and Neely retali­ated with his fist. Neely was kicked out, but that did nothing to slow Boston down. 
They got one goal from Adam Oates, two from Smolinski and one more from Jozef Stumpe! to make 5-0 by the mid-point of the second period. By that time, though, the outcome of the game seemed secondary to the Bruins' desire for revenge. 
Even Boston general manager Harry Sinden got into the act, arguing his point with referee Paul Devorski so forcefully that he cost the Bruins a bench minor at the end of the first pe­riod. 
When Lemieux was finally sent home with a 10-minute misconduct at 14:48 in the third, police rolled out a plexi­glass barrier to protect him as he walked by the Bruins bench, and a screen awning to shield him from debris-throwing fans. They needed it. 
The Bruins brought Naslund back from semi-retirement in Sweden, where he had played for three years before switching over to coaching. After eight years with the Montreal Canadiens, his last NHL goal came on March 21, 1990. 
Lacher lost his shutout with 
1:04 left in the second, while the Devils were a man short af­ter a fight put Daneyko out for the game and Lemieux and MacLean in the box. 
Red Wings 6, Jets 1 
Ray Sheppard scored twice and Paul Coffey had three as­sists to lead the Detroit Red Wings to a 6-1 victory over the Winnipeg Jets on Thursday night. 
The win was the Red Wings' sixth in seven games, while the Jets lost their third straight. 
Detroit's 27 points in 19 games tied their best-ever start to a season. 
The game marked former Red Wings goaltender Tim Cheveldae's return to Detroit, and he didn't get much of a welcome. 
Detroit took less than five minutes to score as Sheppard skated out from behind the net and cleanly beat Cheveldae for his 12th goal at 4:21 of the first. 
Just over a minute later, Keith Tkachuk and Nelson Emerson were called for simultaneous minor penalties, and Sergei Fedorov made it 2-0 on the power play when he tipped in Coffey's shot. 
The Jets took nearly 11 min­utes to get their first shot of the game, and even though they did play better late in the period, Detroit was able to make it 3-0. 
Shawn Burr's long shot went wide of Cheveldae, but bounced off the back boards and right onto to Dino Ciccarelli's stick for an easy tap-in at 14:29. 
Winnipeg got the only goal of the third period when Stephane Quintal skated in and beat Mike Vernon for his third goal at 14:26. 
Detroit boosted its lead back to three goals at 1:27 of the third with a power-play goal. Coffey broke down the right wing, and his centering pass ticked off Vyacheslav Kozlov's skate before Greg Johnson knocked it into the net for his third goal. 

The following is a survey from an ... uh ... a consumer group. 
Think you'll be inspired by our hockey team this weekend? Want to see if you have what it takes to stay up on the ice? Ever experienced the the thrill of making the 3rd goal in a hat--trick? 
If you answered yes to any of the above questions, then we need you to come to the IACC this Friday, March Jrd after the hockey game against 111· is.-Chicago to go 
ICE SKATING 
involve alcohol. We will be holding an ice--skating extravaganza for all those who wish to see if they have the ability to skate with the best of them. But, first, you have to skate with us; so come down after the. hockey game on MarchJrd from 10 p.m.-12 a.m. and see if you can do it! 
Cost is only $2.50 for all ND/SMC students! 
If you want to help out in any way with the organization of this event, call Steve ( 4-17 62) or Cristin ( 4-4206) for details. Ifyou want to learn more about Flip Side, call either of our esteemed presidents, John ( 4-1410) or Mary ( 4-4904 ). 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 3, 1995 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Jordan leaves Sox camp Indians top Reds in­
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
SARASOTA, Fla. 

Baseball's most famous minor leaguer cleaned out his locker and left camp Thursday. When Michael Jordan might return wasn't clear, and neither was his playing status for the re­mainder of this confusing spring. 
Jordan jumped into his black Range Rover and left, briefly telling a reporter he didn't know when he'd be back and that he would release a state­ment at a later date. 
''I'd have to wait and see and address it. I don't know all the issues involved, I'm really not sure he's leaving town," said White Sox general manager Ron Schueler. He said he had no indication that Jordan had left for anything more than an afternoon round of golf. 
"Let's wait until tomorrow morning and see if he shows up," Schueler said. "As far as I know, he's not missing unless he's not here tomorrow morn­ing." 
Jordan's departure came after a hectic and bizarre morning in which the White Sox divided their squad into players who were willing to participate in exhibition games and those who were not. 
Those declining were told to move their belongings into the adjoining minor league club­house, which is more spartan and less spacious. They also were asked to leave the team hotel and had their meal money slashed. They were not, howev­er, sent home as Schueler earli­er said they might be. 
Jordan's personal assistant and driver, George Koehler, said all Jordan told him was: "We're going." 
"I walked in and he said, 'We're going.' We walked out to the truck and that was it. I don't know anything." 
Jordan had voiced a desire from the beginning of camp to not be caught in the middle of the struggle between the play­ers union he supports and the owners. 
He still had not made his de­cision public on whether to compete in the exhibitions, which the union has labeled replacement games. 
Jordan, who has shown marked improvement from a year ago when he first joined the Sox, needs to sharpen his skills by playing games. He'd also been sympathetic toward minor leaguers forced to make a decision about the games. The White Sox exhibition open­er is Friday. 
After the workout Thursday, many players were moving their belongings from the major league locker room to the minor league dressing quar­ters. Thirty-two players stayed and 31 went to the other side. 
Jordan's locker was bare and his chair was folded up inside. 
A clubhouse assistant said Jordan was signing a lot of au­tographs before he left, and a quick inspection of the minor league clubhouse did not reveal a locker with Jordan's name. 
exhibition opener 
By BEN WALKER pitcher Rick Reed had the most Associated Press big-league experience. "There was nothing wrongPlANT CITY. Fla. 
with what was out there," Reed No, Pedro Borbon did not 

said. "It was not major league, pitch for the Cincinnati Reds. 
no it was not. But it was goodThe plump, 48-year-old re­
baseball." liever plopped over backwards trying to make it through 
Maybe even a little better 

pregame drills, however. 
than that, actually. That was the biggest pratfall "This has been portrayed by a Thursday as the Cleveland 
lot of people as a bunch of guys Indians beat the Reds 3-1 in 
out of the beer leagues,"their first crack at replacement Indians manager Mike baseball before an announced 
Hargrove said. crowd of 1,260, seemingly dou­
ble the actual attendance. "The skill level obviously isn't the same as if we'd had KennyInstead, the smallest crowd 
Lofton or Albert Belle or Barry ever for an exhibition opener in Larkin, but these weren't beer Plant City Stadium's eight years leaguers. These guys have -the previous low was 4,464 
played."in 1993 -saw a relatively Still, the day had its strangeclean game that had only one 
moments. error and just a few other mis­plays. Hours before the game began, Rather, there were a couple of the Reds and Indians an­nifty plays, not bad for an early nounced baseball's first two spring game in which losing trades of replacement players. 
•NBA 
Mason leads big comeback as Knicks top Bulls 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Anthony Mason scored 15 of his season-high 26 points in the final period, including the go­ahead basket with 21.3 seconds left, as the New York Knicks held the Chicago Bulls to 12 points in the final period and won 93-89. 
Mason's putback of a blocked shot by Scottie Pippen put the Knicks up 91-89, and Mason put a hand in Pippen's face as the Bulls forward missed a long jumper. Pippen fouled Charles Oakley going for the rebound, and Oakley sank both free throws with 6.1 seconds re­maining. That sealed the vic­tory, completing the Knicks' mmeback from a 22-point sec­ond-half deficit. 
The Bulls had one field goal, a breakaway layup by Pete Myers, in the first 9:51 of the final period. 
Pippen had 21 points in the first half and finished with 28 and 14 rebounds to lead the Bulls. 
Mason added 12 rebounds for the Knicks, who have won six of their last eight, and made 11 of 13 shots. Patrick Ewing added 23 points and Hubert Davis 19. The Knicks trimmed Chicago's big lead to 13 at the end of the quarter behind Ewing's 12 points and the team's 63 per­cent shooting. Pippen scored just two points in the period as the Bulls missed 12 of 19 shots. New York started the fourth quarter with an 18-5 run, tying the game 82-82 on Mason's putback of Hubert Davis' miss with 5:59 to play. A 7-footer by 
~tl ESJl 
~ 4<1~ 
~ Spanish Mass o 
w r­
5 domingo, de MARCHO de 1995 , 
11:30 a.m. 
Stanford-Keenan Hall 
Celebrante Padre Patrick Neary, esc 
-...­
All Are Welcome Todos Estan lnvitados 
Mason then gave the Knicks ahead. their first lead of the half. It was a rough night for 
A pair of free throws by Ewing, who had scored more Pippen tied it 89-89 with 35.8 than 30 points in the last five seconds left after Davis hit a 3-games. In the last three min­pointer to put the Knicks utes of the second half, Ewing missed three of four foul shots, gave up a dunk to Will Perdue, missed .an 18-foot jumper and was called for traveling. 
He finished the half with just nine points. 

GRAND OPENING FRIDAY, MARCH 3 IN THE REAR OF PARKMDDR PLAZA ELKHART 
JUST 30 MINUTES FROM THE 
N.D. CAMPUS •US 20 E. TO SR 19 NORTH 
Zoology 101 was never like this. The ZOO I Michiana's hottest new live rock club, opens its gates on Friday, March 3. See wildlife exhibits like Alternative Thursdays and the Midwest's best live rock bands. Visit the ZOO and take a walk on tl\e wild side. 
T H E 

zoo 
WILD FUN 


Friday, March 3, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•NBA • COLlEGE BASKETBALl 
Milwaukee topples Hawks Hoosiers top Illinois, 

help NCAA chances 
ByHANKLOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Charlie Miller made a three­point play with 3.8 seconds to play and Alan Henderson scored a season-high 34 points as Indiana defeated Illinois 89­85 Thursday night. 
The Hoosiers shot a season­high 63.3 percent from the field and led most of the game. 
Richard Keene's 3-pointer with 18.7 seconds to play tied the game 85-85. Indiana (17­10, 9-6 Big Ten) came down court and Miller took a pass from Andre Patterson under­neath the Hoosiers' basket and hit the layup despite being fouled by Kevin Turner. 
Illinois (17-10, 8-7) then turned the ball over when Keene attempted a three-quar­ter court pass to Kiwane Garris, but tossed the ball out of bounds. Michael Hermon was fouled with 3 seconds remaining and made one free throw to end the scoring. 
Brian Evans was the only other Hoosier in double figures 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Ryan Simme is back on track and playing more aggressively. The Irish have benefited from great play from Ron Mencias the last two matches, and Jason Pun has become a dependable player. 
Bayliss also had high praise for Jakub Pietrowski. "Pietrowski showed a lot of toughness in winning a tough match against Wisconsin." 
The Irish hope to have John Jay O'Brien back from a sore knee this weekend, and Bayliss with 16 points, while Jerry Hester and Garris shared scor­ing honors for the lllini with 18 apiece. 
Henderson made 13 of 17 shots before fouling out with 
53.9 seconds left and Indiana leading 83-81. Robert Bennett made the first free throw, but missed the second. Keene came up with the loose ball for the Illini, who were also hot with a 
55.6 shooting effort. Coach Lou Henson was calling for a time out from the sideline, but Garris didn't see him. 
Garris attempted a shot, but it was blocked by the out­stretched arm of 7 -foot Todd Lindeman, who had come into the game when Henderson fouled out. 
The ball went to Hermon and he hit two free throws with 
29.6 seconds left to give Indiana an 85-82 advantage. 
The victory was the fifth straight for Indiana against the Illini in Assembly Hall and came in a game that is ex­pected to be crucial to both teams as they try to get into the NCAA tournament. 
feels the reliable Mike Sprouse should be rested and ready to go this weekend after not par­ticipating against Wisconsin. 
"We have had good reserve play. Horst Dziura won at number three doubles to secure the doubles point, and Brian Harris is 3-0 in singles play," Bayliss said. "We are able to accommodate minor injuries." 
Bayliss said this weekend's matches are important in order to establish strength in Midwest Region to qualify for the NCAA. "We need both of these match­es. If we keep our heads up and play with poise, we'll be fine." 

Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

Hookie Glenn Robinson scored 28 points and keyed a fourth­quarter comeback Thursday night as the Milwaukee Bucks defeated the. Atlanta Hawks 102-93 to snap their three­game losing streak. 
Vin Baker added 25 points and Todd Day 23 for Milwaukee. The Hawks, who had won three in a row, were led by Stacey Augmon with 25 points and Steve Smith with 21. 
The Bucks, who trailed by three entering the final period, took their first lead since an early 5-3 advantage when Baker dunked on an alley-oop pass from Eric Murdock to make it 85-84. The teams trad­ed the lead several times, but Robinson, who had nine points in the period, got it back for good when he dunked with 4:28 remaining for a 91-90 lead. He followed that with another bas­ket and then hit one of two free throws and the Bucks hung on. 
Smith, who had 14 points in the quarter, hit his second straight 3-pointer in the third period to give the Hawks a 79­
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
GET INVOLVED! BE PART OF PLANNING 
YOU rR »fPW~ 
APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1996JPW 
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE! 
DON'T Ml SS OUT! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 
67 lead. But the Bucks scored nine straight points to end the period, pulling to 79-76 on a basket by Johnny Newman with 20 seconds left. 
The Hawks led 50-38 with 
4:43 left in the second quarter after a basket by Augmon, who was 7 -for-8 and had 18 points in the first half. But the Bucks offense finally came alive, scor­ing 12 unanswered points, with Day capping the surge with his second 3-pointer. 
Atlanta led 56-52 at the half after Smith sank a pair of free throws with 22.6 seconds left. 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 631-4543. 
Rick Steves 
European Travel Seminar 
Hosted by

Rick Steves, author of 
Europe Through The Backdoor 
andnostof 
Traw.ls In Europe with Rick Steves
. •: 
Tues., March 7th Sht~loo Hotel and Towers Ballroom 
3<'1 E. North Water St. -~· ,7:00-9:30 pm 
Admission $2.00 R.S.V.P. 312-951-0585 Sponsored by Council Travel 

~---­
! page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, March 3, 1995 
~.~f~E~NC~IN~G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!Bmnmnam.mnaBnmamnBnmnmn~BmBRRRRR 
Irish begin title defense 
By JOE VILLINSKI Spons Writer 
There's a motivational phrase teams like to use stat­ing, "There's no I in team." 
For the Notre Dame fencing team, there will have to be an I as they travel to Appleton this weekend to compete in the Midwest Regional Qualifiers. 
That letter will stand for in­dividual. 
Due to rule changes in the ofT season by the NCAA govern­ing body, the qualifying tour­nament and the championships themselves will differ consider­ably from the team format that existed last year. 
Now, the team champi­onships will be based on the results of a few individuals. 
The new rules are a result of women's epee being added to the competition for the first time ever. Rather than ex­panding the budget to include the additional fencers, the NCAA decided to limit the num­ber of fencers who can com" pete. 
"The fencing coaches have worked for over 40 years to get both a team and individual competition structured," men's head coach Mike DeCicco said. "We wanted it this way because the teams who won could hon" estly come back and say they were the best." 
Instead of sending the whole team to Appleton, the Irish are forced to send only three fencers in each weapon this year. From those three, only 
Please, Recycle The Observer 
two can qualify for the champi­onships which -will be hosted by Notre Dame. 
"Its good the championships are here because people will be able to cheer," women's epee captain Claudette de Bruin said. "Otherwise they would not be able to go." 
As for this weekend, de Bruin will lead the epee team into competition along with Colleen Smerek and Anne Hoos. Women's foil will be represent­ed by captain Maria Panyi, Mindi Kalogera, and Monica Wagner. 
On the men's side, foil cap­tain Stan Brunner, Conor Power, and Jeremy Siek com­prise a formidable foil squad. In epee, captain Rakesh Patel, Carl Jackson, and Brian Stone will travel to Appleton, while captain Chris Hajnik, Bill Lester, and Chris McQuaid round out the men's team in sabre. 
Because of these new rules, the question arises as to what the Irish need to do at Appleton to put themselves in good posi­tion in three weeks. 
"For Notre Dame to have a chance to repeat, two fencers in each weapon must qualify," DeCicco said. 
This is not out of the realm of possibility considering the Irish will be fencing the same people they encountered last weekend at the Midwest Fencing Team Championships, 
"Last weekend was a good chance to look at all the peo­ple," de Bruin said. "We were 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price list! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. ftfuhington, Chicago, IL 60602 

For a FrH 32-Pap Color Cai4lol ToU-Fnt (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977.(}248 
also able to gain some confi­dence from it." 
If the fencers do not qualify outright this weekend, there are still four at-large bids in each weapon that are available based on various factors such as season mark and record against others who qualified. 
"I think we have a good shot at putting two in from each weapon," Hajnik said. "We all saw how we could do against 
:!~~~~rn competition last The only question that re­mains is if the Irish can adjust to the new format. 
"Team unity has been build­ing all year in the dual meets," assistant coach Ed Baguer said. "But then it all comes down to the individual. It really is a big mental change." 
"If the team can carry over the momentum they gained last weekend to Appleton," DeCicco added, "we will be back on track to making a run at the NCAA championship." 

....---------------------------,
The Obs·e~ner 
.I. l'~ 

is looking for Assistant Advertising Manager 
Do you want experience in sales, publishing, management and good times? Apply for Assistant Ad Manager by 5 pm, Sunday, March 5! Call John Potter @ 1-6900 or 4-1023 with questions. Submit a 1-2 page St<l;tement with resume to 314 LaFortune. 
Two Convenient Locations Close to Campus! 
South Bend -University Commons 
Intemn Cata/of Ill bttp: //wt~~W.~N~p«l.colffl~~~peclc 
L---------------~ 
: 2 WEEKS UNLIMITED TANNING : (across from University Park Mall) 1 BED, BOOTH & SUN CAPSULE 1 Phone 272-7653 I -$25.00 11/;rHIICOUI'OI/ I Mishawaka-Grape and McKinley
I exp. 3110195 

I (located near Kmart) Phone 256-9656 

Friday, March 3, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
• ",;iiOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame home for two J 
By TIM SHERMAN though." region," Louderback noted. A>Sistant Sports Editor That is one problem Last season, the Big Blue Louderback and the Irish have slipped by the Irish in Ann 
The nationally ranked Notre 
not had to worry about this Arbor 5-4. That match is still 
Dame wom1~n's tennis team 
season. This is their seventh in the back of Irish minds. 
w~ts a little breather this week­
straight match up against top "We lost in a tough one last 
end -they anm't up against any 
thirty opponents, and although year and I'm sure everyone
lop live teams. 
the record doesn't really indi­remembers it," Louderback 
Last weekend, the 5-5 Irish 
cate it, Louderback feels his said. "Wendy {Crabtree, #1 sin­
!waded up to Madison, 
squad is right where they gles) lost to a very, very tal­
Wisconsin for the National 
should be. ented freshman and she will be 
Toam Indoors only to come 
"We're playing pretty good ready."
!tome wilh losses to top-ranked 
tennis right now. We've lost 
c;norgia and no. 3 Stanford. 
some tough matches but I've Wake may present even more 
Tlw task is a easier this time, 
been pleased." of a challenge, as they come to 
but not by much. 
Still, Notre Dame will need to South Bend on a roll. The one 
Both Michigan and Wake 
step the play this weekend to defeat the Deacons suffered 
Forest visit the Eck Tennis 
get back on the winning track was at the paws of the top­
CPnter this weekend owning 
after two straight defeats. ranked Bulldogs of Georgia.
national rankings. The Irish 
In addition, they soundly de­
faco their regional rival 
Michigan is off to a somewhat feated a quality William & Mary
Wolverines today at 4 pm. and 
disappointing start, but, team. The Tribe own a win 
return on Sunday to face the 
nonetheless is one of the top over the Irish earlier this year. 
rc~d-hot Demon Deacons at 12 
four clubs in the Midwest re­In the past, Notre Dame has 
pm. 
gion. had some success against Wake 
"This will be another tough 
"They haven't played many Forest. Two of the past three 
wnekend," Irish coach Jay 
matches, but they are definitely matches have been decided by
Louderback. "It is definitely 
one of the better team in our 5-4 counts. 
better than playing cupcakes 


• BASEBALL 
Irish 'dome' for weekend 
By MEGAN McGRATH 12-2, and ranked as high as 17 The only Irish pitcher to Sports Writer in some national polls. record a win in California was "Nevada is an outstanding senior Tim Kraus. Dating back 

For perhaps the only time this 
team," he says. "They have a from last season Kraus has a season, the fabulous Notre 
great deal of offensive fire­ten-game winning steak, but Dame weather might give its 
power." because of tightness in his 
baseball team an advantage. 
But the Irish have some fire­throwing arm he has been com­This weekend the Irish travel 
power of their own, namely ju­ing out of the bullpen. to Seattle for the College 
niors Ryan Topham and Rowan "Tim had a super workout Baseball Classic, to be held in 
. Richards and sophomore Mike Wednesday," Mainieri said. "If the Seattle Kingdome. 
Amrhein. we get a lead in a close game,"I think the location will defi­Richards led everyday players Tim will the one to come in and 
nitely be to our advantage, 
in California with a .545 aver­hang on for us." 
since we're used to turf, a roof, 
age. He had five RBI with a Senior right-hander Craig an indoor environment," said 
double and a home run. Allen will start on Friday for coach Paul Mainieri. "It's just Topham hit .426 with eight Notre Dame. Allen pitched the 
like Loftus, except I think 
RBI, four doubles, a triple and last two innings of the Loftus is nicer facility." 
a homer. Amrhein posted a Pepperdine win. Notre Dame opens the tour­
.538 average. Darin Schmalz looks to re­nament tonight at seven o'clock 
"Topham, Amrhein and bound from a rough opening
against Washington, and then 
Richards and Craig DeSensi game start against Texas. The 
Saturday takes on Washington
The Observer/ Eric Farnan (.455) all hit well for us in righty took a loss last Friday, After a tough opening with Texas this past weekend, Darin Schmalz State. Both are Pac-10 North 
California," said Mainieri. giving up three runs and six 
will get the start Saturday against Washington State. schools, but neither are ranked. 
"We'll be looking for them to hits in a three and one-third "Both teams are off to a slow 
keep their production up in or­innings performance againststart," Mainieri says, "but I'm 
der for us to be successful." the fourth-ranked Longhorns.
for that healthy 
sure they will be ready for us 
In order to combat the strong Freshman Christian Parker and tough to beat in their own 
bats of the opposition, the Irish will start Sunday againstbackyard."
sumtnertinze 
pitching staff will have to per­Nevada. Parker had a no-decf­Mainieri looks for Sunday's 
form better than last weekend sion against Pepperdine, lastingmorning game against Nevada 
in Anaheim, when the staff to be the toughest match of the
glow... experience 
three and two-thirds innings ­
gave up 30 earned runs and 39 and surrendering four earned tournament. The Wolfpack is 
hits in the three-game series. runs and seven hits.
Tanning 
t

with state-ofthe-
LENTEN FACULTY RETREAT
artfacilities ( 
For Single and Married Notre Dame Faculty and Spouses
Spring Break Special 
Friday, March 24-Saturday, March 25 
8:00 p.m. 8:00 p.m. 
1 wk. Free Tanning 
A time of quiet and personal reflection, the retreat will include opportrmity for
with cut and shampoo 
shared reflection on the biblical texts for the Sundays of Lent. 
Tho CaMpua lhoppoa 
Offered by: David Burrell, C.S.C. and John Gerber, C.S.C. 
1 8 1 1 Iouth loncl Avo. 271-7674 
lko-fri 9:00 a.m. -8:00 p.m. 

Place: Mary's Solitude on the St. Mary's College Campus
Sol. 9a.m.-5p.m. •Sun. II a.m.-4p.m. 
r----------------------, 
Cost: $35.00 per person, three Saturday meals included. 
i 10% OFF i 
RESERVATIONS AI{E REQUESTED BY MARCH 10, 
BUT WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL MARCH 17. Only 14 places are available. 
I any Paul Mitchell® !I 
Contact Fr. John Gerber, C.S.C., I Ioly Cross House, 631-8474 
or Redken® i 
or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607.
I 

I

Purchase I 
I 

----------------------~


page 22 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Friday, March 3, 1995 

-l 
f· Irish must keep intensity 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
A tough act to follow. 
After last Saturday's historic 6-3 upset victory over Michigan, what could the Notre Dame hockey team possibly do for an encore? 
"Beat Illinois-Chicago and Western Michigan and go into the playoffs on a high note," said head coach Ric Schafer fol­lowing the game. 
Heading into tonight's contest versus Illinois-Chicago at the Joyce Center, the Irish have the opportunity to make the transi­tion from league doormat to playoff contender. However, they will need to play with the same intensity for 60 minutes to pull off a pair of upsets over VIC and Western Michigan. 
One advantage for the Irish tonight could be the weekend condition of Illinois-Chicago. The Flames are coming off a late game last night against Western Michigan, while Notre Dame has had the luxury of having a week off to rest and prepare for the nationally tele­vised matchup. 

Entering tonight's game in sole possession of seventh place with an 11-18-4 record, Illinois­Chicago has been inconsistent all season long. The Flames have been torrid at times at the offensive end but have strug­gled defensively for much of the 
-year. 
Offensively, VIC forwards Rob Hutson (42 points) and Mark Zdan (34) lead a balanced scor­ing attack. At goaltender, Paul 
Spencer (4.50 Goals Against Average) and Adam Lord (4.70 GAA) have each seen extensive playing time, but neither is yet to establish himself as a CCHA starter. 
With this in mind, the Irish 

could have a field day offen­
sively against the Flames. 
Junior Jamie Ling (40 points), 
sophomore Tim Harberts (31), 
sophomore Jamie Morshead 
(25), and Terry Lorenz (24) are 
the major reason Notre Dame 
has gone from anemic to solid 
at the offensive end. 
"We've become a lot more 

opportunistic offensively," said 
senior Jeff Hassleman. 
"Fortunately, we've been con-· 
verting more of our shots on 
goal, and six goals against 
Michigan is a pretty good feat." 
At one time, defeating Western Michigan on their home ice would have been out of the question. However, given the Irish's improved play and attitude, anything is possi­
ble. 
The Broncos entered last night's game in eighth place in the CCHA with a 15-16-5 over­all record. However, having already notched 6-4 and 4-3 victories over the Irish this sea-
ARE CC>JVI.ING! 
son, WMU is confident they will 
be able to complete the season 
sweep on Saturday. 
Goalie Brian Renfrew is a 
team leader and one of the 
CCHA's top goaltenders with a 
3.54 GAA. Leading the way for the Bronco offense are junior centers Jamal Mayers (44 points) and Jeremy Brown (39) and junior left wing Chris Brooks. 
Attempting to slow down the talented trio will be an im­proved Irish defense led by Jeremy Coe, Davide Dal Grande, Brian Welch, and Ben Nelsen. Goaltender Matt Eisler, who saved 40 of 43 shots against Michigan, continues to improve with each game and appears to be well on his way to joining the CCHA's elite at his position. 

"The defense has been play­ing strong over the last few weeks," said Hassleman. "They just haven't been getting the credit for it until the Michigan game." 
Happy Birthday, Krista! 
• Love, 
Mom and Dad 

-The Iceberg Debates are an undergraduate debate series focusing on campus, national, and global issues. If you are interested in competing contact your hall president. 
If you would like to help organize the debates, or you're a faculty member or grad student and would like to be a judge, call John Emery at 288..9174. 
Captains. should meet on Monday, 
March 6 at 9:00 p.m. in the Student 
Government Office, znd floor LaFortune• 
.... 
VARSITY SHOP 
..-P 


The Observer/ Brian Hardy 

Intensity will be a key factor this weekend for Jeremy Coe and the hockey team as they play Illinois-Chicago and Western Michigan. 


T! 
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY vs. lllinois·Chicago TONIGHT at 7:00! LAST HOME GAME OF THE SEASON! 

Friday, March 3, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 

•
cl• 
terview With -The Vampire 
·' . ght at thecbeloved 
ushin 
U\'ltSI lt-1\)8\\\0l-1? 
rrs fl.. wR11£.Rs 8L<X:.K • ~<JIJ PUI 11 ot-1 \01' or '(OIJR DE.SI< /1.~\) 1\\EN 
'(<JIJ Cl>-\.1'\ WR 1\t. \Wi:.RE A\.l'i ~ORE! 
MIRRORLAND 
HUY NGOC PHAN 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 
BILL WATTERSON 
I \11.\J'ST B£ 'IE"-I~S /1.1-\E.fl.\) ov t.4.'( 1\l-111: . I 


DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 

DROP YOUR TROUSERS ANO TURN AROUNO. I NEED A DNA SA~PL£. 
~ Ul-\ .. WE. DECIDED ~ TO MOVE YOUR 
,; 

.!: PROJ"ECT DEADLINE ~ UP A WEEK. 
..! 
; 
.; 
... 
, 
! 
c 
..::> ::: 
0 


CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

"But that's the beauty of It, Rltall don't have to worry about my fat Intake today. I'm having a quadruple bypass tomorrow!" 
• OF INTEREST 

The Spanish Club will be viewing "La Historia Oflcial.. this Friday, March 3, at 8 p.m. in Badin Hall's First Floor Lounge. Homemade food will also be pre· pared by club members. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
·~M· 

+'SOUTH DINING HALL Grilled Tilapia <<'Cheese Sticks/Spaghetti Sauce Rolled Cheese Omelet 
NORTH DINING HALL Tuna Cheese Muffin h,;;1;Mushroom Stroganoff ·Turbot Almondine 

iA'St. Marrs 
Baked Chicken w/Noodles Veggie and Tofu Stir Fry Grilled Tuna 
Have 
something to 
say? Use The Observer classifieds 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 One often called on for answers 
12 One for the road 15 Pointedly 
punctuated 16 Atty.'s assn. 17 Monitor for 
12-Across 18 Throw 19 Reddish-brown 
horses 20 Ship's peril 22 Malta or 
Martinique: Abbr. 23 Food cooker 24 Part of the plot? 25 Current status 
28 Magnetic attraction 30Get-of (see) 31 Fourth Spanish letter 32 Jalopy 33 Graceful and slim 34 Ministry, perhaps 36 Androgen, e.g. 37 Sign up 38Jamie of "M*A*S*H" 
39 Holiday serving 40 Union targets 41 Long dress 
42 End of a 1/1 song 43 All dried up 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
WE.'RE SCANNING FOR ANY FATAL GENETIC 
PF\OBLEI"\5 Tr\AT COULD 
1-\URT PRODUCTIVITY 
44 Forest god 45 Jazz grp. 47 1980's United 
Nations name 49 Roman statesman Marcus Vipsanius -­53 Uncover, 
poetically 54 Persian 56 Some advice 57 Certain brother 58 Vane direction 59 Agree 
DOWN 
1--Millay of "Red River" 
2 Big showcase 3 Maple genus 4 Priest 
5 Charon's destination 8 Skin softener 7-horn (shofar) 
28 Run into 

8 Fr. holy one 27 "Don't You 
a Sleeping­
Know" singer tO At attention 
29 Unprestigious1 t Phoenician city 

publicationt2 The British 
30 Say it's so 

seized It in 1795 32 Leak indicator 
130ddity 14 The brink 33 Western attire 
21 Cotton machine 35 Subject of media law 
23 Detonate 25 9 on a hotel 38 Presidential phone, e.g. instrument 

38 Geisha's 49 One of the Gibb 
accessory brothers 41 Thalassic 50--dieu 42 Reach by ship 51 Brawnless 
44Gay-52 Palindromist 4& Leaflike part Jon 48 Easy questions 55 Shoe width 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 



Jeff Goddard takes aim at third title 
¥ --~ ~ ­
... .;;; ~:pl;f '{11 1..:1'( ··;:->(·.:·<· 
..J 1,.. • ..., • ~ .. ~ ~ ·-:·· i..i....t .. •l.l .. ·-,.!, 1. ............. 

SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, March 3, 1995 
.lACROSSE 
Notre Dame looks to get back on track 
By DAVID TREACY 
Sports Writer 
The best way to forget about a tough loss is to get a tough win. 
This Sunday, the lacrosse team has a chance to earn a victory which should definitely get them back on the fast track. 
The problem is, this Sunday's opponent probably doesn't want to help the Irish get themselves together. 
The Tar Heels of North Carolina should prove to be a formidable and unforgiving opponent this weekend. This is the first meeting between the two schools and will take place at Chapel Hill. Notre Dame is trying to establish itself as an up-and­coming lacrosse program, while North Carolina is already one of the top lacrosse schools in the country. They go into their first game of the season ranked 7th in the country, while the Irish have dropped to 17th in the polls after the loss to Penn State last weekend. 
North Carolina returns 24 lettermen, including 5 starters, from last year's NCAA semi-final squad. Included in these returnees is keeper Rocco D'Andraia, a learn co-captain and one of the ACC's top goalies. The squad also returns two starting defensemen, and several explo­sive midfielders. One possible weakness of the Tarheels is the loss of two high­scoring attackers due to graduation. 
Of course, the bigger they come, the harder they fall. 
Notre Dame will need a productive game in the cage from keeper Ryan Jewell. In addition, the defense, the team's mainstay, needs to perform up to par against the powerful Tarheel offense. Strong games would be especially wel­come from tri-captains Billy Gallagher and Mike Iorio. Iorio will most likely mark NC's most talented attacker, while Gallagher will need to gobble up ground balls, a problem that the team had in last week's performance, as well as play heads-up defense. 
Against Penn State, the offense carried the team, which was highly unexpected coming into the season. Tri-captain Randy Colley and midfielder Willie Sutton had big games last weekend, but will need help against the top-flight NC de­fense. 
Coach Kevin Corrigan has no fear of the Tarheels, provided the Irish play up to form. "I believe that we can play with any team in the country, provided we play Notre Dame-caliber lacrosse. There isn't a single team that should beat us." 


Busy weekend for Irish 
By B.J. Hood coached," Bayliss said. "In my gles, Brian Crowley is very tal­Sports Writer opinion, they are one of the top ented. He won the Midwest three or four teams in the big Rolex Singles which hosts the 
The Notre Dame men's tennis 
ten. We will have to play well top ninety-six players in the team will try to build on to win." 
midwest by defeating Mike Wednesday's 7-0 victory over 
Even though Illinois defeated Sprouse of the Irish. "He's ca­Wisconsin as they clash with Arizona outdoors, Bayliss feels pable of beating anyone on any two other Big Ten teams. The 
they are a better indoor team, given day, as he showed by Irish will face Illinois on 
boasting an aggressive hard winning the tournament," Saturday and Iowa on Sunday, 
hitting team. Bayliss said. with both matches starting at Jerry Turek and Jeremy Bob Zumph is a strong player three in the afternoon. 
Sutter alternate at number one at number two singles, who The schedule does not appear 
singles for the Illini. Turek is a Bayliss thinks hits as hard as to be getting any easier for the 
baseline player, while Sutter is anyone the Irish will play all Irish. Illinois defeated a ranked 
a serve and volley player. Chris year. Arizona team 4-3 recently. 
Tuvore is another key per­Bayliss said Steve Flanigan, a Coach Bob Bayliss said the Irish 
former and was ranked in the transfer from West Virginia,will have their hands full
• U. S. as a sixteen year old. has settled in to good routine against the Illini. 
Iowa is another strong big ten and is playing with confidence. "They are well balanced, a 
performer. At number one sin-terrific doubles team, and well see TENNIS/ page 19 


ofnote...
NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
The Irish hockey team closes out its 1994-95 regular season this weekend against Illinois­
Check inside for preview of this Chicago and Western Michigan 
weekend's baseball action. SEE PAGE22 



