
Wednesday, February 22, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 92 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Kemp to speak at Stepan 
By TIMOTHY BOWERS News Writer 
Prominent Hepublican politi­cian Jack Kemp brings a distinguished list of achieve­ments in public 
service with him as he speaks tonight at Stepan Center on t h e "Mandate for the New Congress" at 8 pm. 
K e m p served as the Secretary of Housing and Urban Devel­opment (IIUD) in the Bush Ad­ministration. lie was instru­mental in passing two major pieces of legislation during his tenure. 
The liUD Heform Act sought to rid IIUD of the waste, fraud. and abuse that characterized the department under past administrations. In addition, Kemp's IIOPE initiative (Home ownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere) intended 
see KEMP/ page 4 

SMC elections decide class leaders 
Abstention by 
junior majority 
By BETH REGAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Yesterday's Saint Mary's 
class elections determined that 
the tickets headed by Leanne 
Jones and Ellen Coleman will 
fill the offices of the senior and 
sophomore classes respectively. 
The abstention of the majority 
of voters in the junior class 
elections, however, forces 
another election for junior class 
officers. 
The sole junior class ticket 
composed of Leslie Field (run­
ning for president). Emily 
Ruffner (vice president), Becky 
Kellogg (secretary) and Annie 
Korte (treasurer) received only 
4 7 percent of the vote. 

Of the 51 percent of the class that voted, 53 percent abstained. In order to win a class election at Saint Mary's, 50 percent of the vote is need­ed. 
"We are very hurt and disap­pointed in our class," Field said. "We treated this election with upmost seriousness and had a solid platform with good ideas. 
"We have worked very hard for our class for the past two years and find it strange that no one ran against us if they seem to be so dissatisfied." 
A meeting for sophomores interested in running for junior class officers will be held in the next few weeks, according to Election Commissioner Amy Altesleben. 
"It appears that the class wasn't satisfied with the ticket running," Altesleben said. "They obviously voiced their opinions in the election. Hopefully there will be more of a selection of tickets running in 

the next few weeks." The Field ticket has not given up all hope. 
"We are the most pro-Saint Mary's, pro-sophomore class people you'll ever meet," Field said. "We will run again to prove ourselves because we want to continue our efforts from the past two years." 
The officers-elect for the the class of 1996 are Leanne Jones, president; Laurie DeMattia, vice president; Monica Moore, secretary; and Megan Reilly, 


Program for SMC prospects 
By MARY GOOD News Writer 
What is it like to live in a dorm? Are class­es at Saint Mary's really religious? Does your roommate ever get on your nerves? Is it strange to go to college with all women? What is the social life like at Saint Mary's? 
These are questions commonly asked of Saint Mary's students like Lesley Imbur, Anne Herrman, Brandde Carlson, and Jamie Nilson, who are all members of a unique organization of students called Volunteers In Support of Admissions (VISA). 
VISA is a group of approximately 230 Saint Mary's students dedicated to volunteering their time to aid the Admissions Office in promoting their college to interested, prospective, and accepted students. 
According to admissions counselor and VISA Coordinator Katherine Rosswurm, this element of volunteerism is what makes VISA so unique to Saint Mary's in comparison to other schools where student admissions workers are usually paid. The group also helps supplement and extend the work of the five full time admission counselors at Saint Mary's. 
"We only have five admission counselors at Saint Mary's," Rosswurm said. "Five women can't pull in a freshman class on their own." 
VISA also gives prospective students a stu­dent personality to relate to, in addition to the personal attention they receive from the counselor who works their area. 
"Sometimes students might not believe us. They might think we are too biased, but they will believe a student," Rosswurm said. 
VISA helps the recruiting process through its four main departments: high school li­

The Observer/Cynthia Exconde aisons, overnight hostesses, telecounseling, 
Saint Mary's sophomore Ashley Ratcliffe hosts high school and tour guides.
students considering attending Saint Mary's, such as Anna 
Sanford, right, through the Admlsslons Office's VISA program. 
see VISA/ page 4 


treasurer; winning 51 percent of the vote. 
"We are very excited," said President-elect Jones. "We were happy to see how many people voted and hope that it will reflect the involvement of our class." 
The Jones ticket plans to begin work on their new senior housing directory as soon as possible. 
"We want to set up a way to 
see ELECTIONS/ page 5 

• HALl PRESIDENT'S COUNCil 
HPC resolution: Recognition due for GLND/SMC 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Assistant News Editor CHRIS CORRENTE News Writer 
Following the trend of support for GLND/SMC shown by other student government councils on campus, the Hall Presidents' Council unanimously passed a resolu­tion last night objecting to the administration's policy and calling for official recognition of that group. 
"Be it resolved that we, the Hall Presidents' Council, strongly object to the Administration's actions to expel GLND/SMC from campus and call upon the Administration to recognize GLND/SMC as an integral part of the Notre Dame community deserving of all rights and privileges afforded other campus groups," the resolutiQn said. 
The resolution, submitted by Nikole Neidlinger, off­campus co-president, and HPC co-chairs Rich Palermo and Hilary Bonenberger, and Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy, co-presidents of Flanner Hall, was passed without debate among the council members. 
According to Neidlinger, the passing of the resolu­tion shows that recognition of GLND/SMC is important to the majority of students on campus. 
"These people (the HPC members) are representa­tives of the students," she said. "This is what the cam­pus wants." 
A Campus Life Council resolution, identical to the one passed by HPC, is to be presented by Student Body President David Hungeling to Patricia O'Hara, vice­president of Student Affairs. O'Hara has seven days to respond to the CLC resolution. 
GLND/SMC co-chair John Blandford, who attended the HPC meeting, said that the administration is out of touch with the rest of the campus. 
"I think the administration is missing what the facul­ty and students are after," he said. 
see HPC/ page 5 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, February 22, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Oh, the 
power of 


prayer... 
The semester is pro­gressing at full speed now. Only 16 days remain until Spring Break. So life is looking pretty good, except for the fact that we are bombarded with exams, papers, and other time consuming projects. 
Since we've had so 
many tests lately, I've 
started noticing some 
really disturbing things 
about the whole exam 
process. It begins the night before the exam, 
though you've known about it for five weeks. 
You see all of these people in the library from 
your class. Thinking that they're slackers just 
like you, you approach them and ask how their 
studying is coming. 
Contrary to your wishful thinking, they pro­
ceed to tell you that they feel pretty comfort­
able about this one because they've been 
studying for roughly three weeks now. After a 
minor coronary, you wish your fellow student 
"good luck." You decide to reevaluate the situ­
ation and decide that yeah you can afford that 
always crucial procrastination time. So you're 
off to Meijer for that solid supply of caffeine 
and gummy bears,. Now you're ready to begin. 
But there is so much information, and it is 
starting to get late, so you begin arbitrarily 
deciding what is important. "He won't ask that. 
He won't get that specific." 
So you randomly pick and choose what you'll 
study and pray to St. Jude that you've chosen 
wisely. Since there's not enough time to swing 
by Medjugorje on your way to the test, you'll 
probably have to settle for Dial-a-Miracle. 
Then you make a solemn vow that you will 
keep up on the reading and never again wait 
until the night before the exam to begin study­
ing-despite the fact that you've just sold out 
your soul. 
You confidently make your way into the 
classroom, which is filled with a couple dozen 
students cramming in all of those last minute 
formulas and definitions. Obviously, they 
haven't discovered the power of prayer. Then 
those people start to make you nervous 
because they are talking about things you 
didn't even study-and this is stuff they're 
memorizing. It's at this very point that you 
realize you're screwed. 
If you haven't blanked out by now, congratu­
lations. The professor reminds you that you 
may look up for inspiration, down in despera­
tion, but not to the side for information. And so 
you visit the hell of unprepared test-takers for 
the next 75 minutes, with your only salvation 
lying in multiple choice questions. 
But this is short lived because you come upon 
that set of questions you were sure he wouldn't 
ask. Time halts, the room spins, words jumble. 
The moment has finally come to put yourself 
out of your misery. 
You are beyond caring as you leave the class­
room, for you're so glad that it's over. A week 
passes and you brace yourself for the grade. 
But maybe, just maybe you'll see a 94 at the 
top of your test. You shriek in glee not only for 
the grade but also for being one of the only 
people in modern times to actually witness and 
participate in a miracle. You shake in jubila­
tion at receiving an A. and then the professor 
announces the grading scale: 95 to 100 is an 
A. Close enough. God was probably busy that day. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• TOUAY'S StAff 
News Production Gwendolyn Norgle Tara Grieshop Edward Imbus Jackie Moser Sports Accent Tim Sherman Aimee Garbinson Viewpoint Kym Kilbreide Suzy Fry Shannon Johnston 
• Wmu..oAT A GLANCE 
$3.7 billion New England bank merger latest of industry 
BOSTON 

Two of New England's largest banks are coming together in a $3.7 billion merger their leaders say gives them the muscle needed to survive in an increasingly com­petitive financial services industry. 
The Fleet Financial Group will take over Shawmut National Corp. in a stock swap that was approved Monday by the boards of both banks. The action still needs the approval of federal regulators and share­holders and should be completed in about six months, said Terrence Murray, Fleet's president and chief executive officer. 
The takeover would create a banking powerhouse ranked ninth nationwide in terms of assets, Murray said. 
The new Fleet Financial Group will have more than $80 billion in assets and $50 billion in deposits. 
The bank is expected to be the nation's largest servicer of third -party student loans, the No. 2 mortgage banking compa­ny and No. 3 small business lender. 
Balloon flight across Pacific finished 
CHICAGO 

A stockbroker became the first person to complete a solo balloon flight across the Pacific Ocean on Tuesday, then landed safely in Canada. Steve Fossett, 50, also broke the distance record of 5,208 nautical miles, according to his flight crew. ''I'm very satisfied with it," Fossett said after landing. "This was the objective that I set out to do a year ago, and it really was quite satisfying to reach that objective." When he completed the Pacific crossing, Fossett was "very laid-back," flight manager Alan Noble said. J Fossett was tired and cold when his support team contacted him Tuesday afternoon and he decided to try landing even though they couldn't reach him to assist. Soon after Fossett took off from Seoul, South Korea, on Saturday, the two propane heaters in the balloon's gondola failed. Fossett pressed on, enduring temperatures between 4 degrees below zero and 10 degrees with only a sleeping bag to keep him warm in the cramped gondola. He had to keep his drinking water close to his body to thaw it. The last solo attempt across the world's largest ocean ende!l in disaster when Japanese balloonist Fumio Niwa was killed when forced to ditch his craft in the sea in 1991. 

Insurers hunt the dubiuosly dead 
BOSTON 

Officially, Dan Brownlee is dead and buried in Haiti. One day a few months ago, he walked into a government office in Port-au-Prince, plunked down about $5, filled out the paperwork saying he had died, and strolled out into the sunshine. "I think I died on Halloween," says Brownlee, obviously very much alive as he talks on the phone from his hotel room in Tokyo. After Japan, he was off to Mexico. No, Brownlee isn't running from the law. In a way, he is the law. He's a private detective for insur­ance companies. Insurance companies, lawyers and fraud investigators agree it's the most frequently tried life insurance swindle in the United States. It happens when a beneficiary of a lucrative life insurance policy produces phony documents -death certificates, even photographs of funerals and bodies -that claim the insured person died in a foreign country. If it works, the beneficiary and the supposed-to-be-dead person make off with the money, sometimes hundreds of thousands of dol­lars. More often, they never get the money because inves­tigators like Brownlee help uncover the fraud. 



Shawmut. 
National . ~ . Reef Financial Group Corporation­
Fleet-Shawmut merger creates New England's largest bank 
New E11gland's largest bank, Fleet Financial Group Inc., has agreed to buy Shawmut National Corp. for $3.7 billion in stock. The new company will be called the Fleet Financial Group and have its headquarters in Boston. A comparison of Fleet, Shawmut and the new company: 
Fleet Shawmut Combined Headquarters Providence, R.I. Hartford, Conn. Boston Assets $49 billion $32.4 billion $81.4 billion Deposits $34.8 billion $18.7 billion $46.2 billion Earnings (1994) $613 million $237.4 million N/A Employees 22,000 9,565 27,000* Branches 1,200 333 900* 
•After layoffs and consolidations 
Source: Company reports AP 

Marine makes art to honor Iwo-Jima 
EDISON, N.J. 

Veterans who have lived through the unutterable hell of military combat, the violence and noise, the random carnage, say that in their gratitude they often ponder: Why was I destined to survive? "I know why," says Charles Waterhouse. "I now know why I came back home from Iwo Jima." He held a large book in his lap, opened it, thumbed its pages in a riffle of color. He lifted the book, then quickly returned it self-consciously to his lap. "This is the reason," he says. But his book is more than a private chalice of redemption in return for one life spared 50 years ago in the bloodiest battle the Marines ever fought. To Waterhouse, it is a summation of two passions of his life: the art of illustration and the U.S. Marine Corps. The painting on page 188 is one of those "personal" inclusions which also commands general interest. It shows a Marine propped against a cluttered hillock grimacing in pain as comrades press forward. His right hand clutches a bloody wound on his left shoulder. The painting is dramatic for its restraint. Its title is equal­ly understated: "Self Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man." 

Top mafia boss of Sicily stands trial 
CALTANISSETTA, Sicily 
The reputed Mafia "boss of bosses" and 36 other defendants went on trial in a fortress-like courtroom today for the 1992 killing of prosecutor Giovanni Falcone. Scores of police guarded the courtroom and surrounded Salvatore "Toto" Riina as he was led into a bulletproof pen holding the defendants. Riina, arrested two years ago after 24 years in hiding, is accused along with other defendants of masterminding Falcone's slaying. The top anti-Mafia prosecutor was killed by a bomb planted on a Sicilian highway on May 23, 1992. Falcone was a symbol of Italy's renewed efforts to crack down on the crime syn­dicate. In the years following his death scores of top mob­sters were arrested. Ten defendants attended today's opening session, including another reputed top boss, Benedetto "Nitto" Santapaola. Authorities in Caltanissetta launched an unrelated Mafia sweep today, issuing 54 warrants for 23 mob-related killings in the province over the past seven years. Prosecutors said 12 people were arrested, two were listed as fugitives while the other warrants were issued to people already in prison on other charges. 

VVednesday,Feb.22 
The Accu-Weather<~> forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 22.
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
FRONTS: 
~ 
....__.._ ......-.,... 


COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 Accu-Weather. Inc. 

Pressure ~ 6--, ,..-/\
H L 6J ~ !I!l 0 !ZiEJ "M" L-!~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoclat9d PmSB 
Lab Tech Graphics Brandon Candur'l Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 

~-~-~~~~ ~ ~ d 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Via Assoc.1ated Press GraphicsNst Cl1995 Accu·Weather, Inc.
<he Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Atlanta  70  42  Dallas  55  41  New O~eans 73  48  
Baltimore  57  29  Denver  61  33  New Ymk  41  30  
Boston  42  27  Los Angeles 65  46  Philadelphia 50  29  
Chicago  41  30  Miami  72  53  Phoenix  85  58  
Columbus  43  33  Minneapolis 35  24  St. Louis  54  35  



r---------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, February 22, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


Blank addresses religion-economics dilemma 
By DAVE PREISSLER 
News Writer 
For all those caught in the dilemma between religion and economics, Catholicism and capitalism, Hebecca Blank, a professor at the Northwestern University Business School, ad­dressed this controversy basing her thoughts on Biblical testi­mony and her own experience. 
Blank, who has a Ph.D. in economics, also discussed how the Christian Church demon­strates its involvement and in­fluence over the economy. 
The strongest authority that integrates these opposing sides, according to Blank, comes from both the Old Testament and the New Testament in the Bible. 
Blank stated, "Economic ele­ments are imbedded in the Creation Story." Also, the books Exodus and Deuteron­omy suggest ways in which the society of the fertile crescent are supposed to act, Blank said, and that these regulations in­clude ways in which the econ­omy helps widows and orphans who are often a burden to the system. 
According to Blank, Christ di­rected many of his teachings toward household economic behavior. She said that God lays down the rules for house­hold behavior in the economic system. 
According to Blank, not only does Biblical testimony inte­grate religion and economics, but personal experience also influences one's actions in a monetary society. 
On a general scale, society asks what to do in response to the people in need, according to Blank. 
She said that in her studies as an economist, "working with data and statistics is not enough to be an economist." It is important to have hands-on involvement with society in order to better understand the system, Blank said. She used the term "middle axioms" to explain that "in a market econ­omy, we must care for those that the economy does not." 
Blank suggested five ways in which the Christian Church is involved with the economy 




aJII· S7ANFOJIQ 

Saturday, February 25, 1995 Stepan Center 
8:00PM 

Tickets: $3.00 
(available through Stanlord Hall) 


All proceeds to benefit Logan Center 

First, the Church operates as a base community for individual support. It, also, crosses national, economical, and racial boundaries as an educa­tional role for dialogue and communication. Also, the Church speaks with and empowers the poor to speak. Fourth, it models successful alternative economies and pro­grams 
Most importantly, Blank said, prayer in the Church commu­nity is an integral part for a successful economy. 
•RHA 

Recycling program requires funding 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association {RHA) hopes to ask the administration for enough funding to implement a new recycling program. 
At Jast night's meeting, RHA Vice-President Kathy Pilcavage announced that Sara Sawtelle, a Saint Mary's chemistry professor, offered the support of the science department. 
According to Pitcavage, Sawtelle said that the science department would be happy to offer support for a recycling program. 
RHA would like to imple­ment a new program 'compa­rable to Notre Dame's pro· gram, hut is unable to at this time due to a lack of funding, 
You are invited to watch the ND Swint Teant continue their dominance and to cheer on potential NCAA qualifiers at the Midwestern Collegiate Conference Championship tomorrow through Saturday Congratulations to the coaches and women of the NO swim team for their 14-1 record. It is their most successful season in history! LOOK OUT BIG EAST! 
members said. 
RHA feels that the administration will have to offer some support because of a rumor that next year that an Indiana law will make recy­cling mandatory. 
Meetings for the RHA recy­cling sub-committee are held Sunday nights at ten o'clock in the LeMans lobby. 
In other Hesidence Hall news: 
• 
Regina Hall hosts aerobics ever Sunday at 3 pm in the basement dance studio. · 

• 
RHA is planning on hold­ing a forum to interview next year's RHA officers. Dates for the forum, however, are still to be announced. 

• 
Barry Williams will appear April fourth at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Tickets will be presold. 


Recycle The Observer 

Hosted byRick Steves, author of 
Europe Throu!lh The Backdoor 
andnostof 
Travels In Europe with Rick Stna 


Tues., March 7th Sheraton Hotel and Towers Ballroom 
301 E. North Water St. 7:00 • 9:30 pm Admission $2.00 R.S.V.P. 312-951-0585 
Sponsored by Council Travel 1153 N. Dearborn, 2nd Floor, Chicago, IL 60610 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, February 22, 1995 




VISA 
continued from page 1 
The high school liaison pro­gram works with high schools around the country. arranging for current Saint Mary's stu­dents to visit their former high schools over fall, Christmas, and spring breaks to answer questions about student life, ac­cording to Rosswurm. 
"For many prospective stu­dents, it is good to see a Saint Mary's student they remember who went to their high school," Rosswurm said. · 
The admission counselors cannot possibly go to all the high schools in their area, es­pecially in the states they do not visit, which makes this department all the more vital, according to Rosswurm. 
Many of the details of the high school liaison program are worked out by high school liai­son co-chairwomen, Herrman and Candi Novak. 
"By participating in the high school liaisons, I have the chance to personally contact students that the Saint Mary's counselors often don't have the opportunity to visit at distant high schools," junior Herrman said. 
"Saint Mary's admission counselors visit as many schools as possible and try to give every applicant individual attention, but I think VISA has an incredible influence on the decisions of the incoming fresh­men." 
The overnight hostess pro­gram is also key in reaching students and getting them on campus before they actually arrive for orientation. 
According to Rosswurm, about ten weekends are set 
aside each semester for prospective students to spend one night on campus. They can choose from either a Thursday or Friday night. 
"Katherine (Rosswurm) tells us that the overnight hostess is Saint Mary's to the prospective student," said overnight hostess co-chairwoman Imbur. 
According to Imbur, overnight hostesses try to show their guests what student life at Saint Mary's is really like. 
As an overnight hostess, 1m­bur spends time with her guests watching movies in her room, taking students to class­es, and last year she even took someone to the Gin Blossoms concert. As a co-chair, Imbur calls hostesses to make sure they have contacted their guests to make arrangements. She is "on call" for hostesses during the we!Jkend, and she makes sure guests receive a fol­low-up call. 
lmbur's involvement in VISA stems from her pride in Saint Mary's. "I like being a host and want to share Saint Mary's with prospective students just basi­cally because I am proud of my school." 
The telecounseling depart­ment is a third department of VISA that has broken records in reaching large numbers of students by phone this year. 
According to telecounseling co-chairwoman Brandee Carl­son, the job of telecounselors involves calling prospective stu­dents, ,normally juniors and seniors in high school, accepted students, and students who have shown an interest in Saint Mary's. 
"We try to promote interest, answer questions about the school, and talk about student­related information." Carlson said. 
The telecounselors meet ap­proximately three weeks per semester for three hours an evening, Monday through Thursday, to phone prospects. according to Carlson. An ad­mission counselor is also al­ways present in case a tele­counselor is unable to answer a more technical question about admissions standards and aca­demics. 
All admission counselors call students in their area as well, but in the fall, the telecoun­selors call to answer questions about student life, and in the Spring, they call to congratu­late students on their accep­tance and to again answer questions. 
Another unique aspect of the telecounseling department is alumnae involvement. Numer­ous Saint Mary's alumnae make phone calls to answer questions as well. Alumnae also get involved in VISA by attending college nights and fairs when counselors cannot and they also hold receptions at their homes for prospective students. 
The fourth department of VISA is the tour guide program. 
According to tour guide co­chair Jamie Nilson, students can be involved as either week­ly tour guides or special events tour guides. Tour guides spend an hour a week giving a sched­uled tour. Special event tour guides give tours during special events, such as Spring Day on Campus. 
Do you have a dance on Friday, Feb 24? 
7ak ~date t6 a~ 
1/Pze-daHUII etJe#tt!! 
TROOP NOTRE DAME 
p'r.E.iE.nli 
The 2nd Annual Campus Wide Talent Show 
~, ~:l/1., 1995 
7:30 PH£ CW~ton cJI-alf 
Stadents, ~ay yoar tickets at the dining halls for $3 hefore FridayII or $S General Ad11issio• at the door 
PROFITS GO TO THE BOYS & GIRLS CWB OF ST_ JOSEPH'S COUNTY 
Tour guides are trained at the beginning of the semester. 
"At the beginning of the semester, myself, the three other tour guide chairwomen, and an admission counselor take the department on a tour and are given handbooks with facts about the Saint Mary's campus," Nilson said. 
"When I visited Saint Mary's, my tour guide sold the school to me," she added. "The tour was a very big deciding factor in my decision and also my parents'. I am trying to give back to Saint Mary's some of what it has given to me." 
The personal attention that this admissions program strives for is reflective of the entire atmosphere at Saint Mary's. 
"VISA shows Saint Mary's personal touch. We go over­board when a student visits. We try to show them a good time, give them a great tour and make them at home," Rosswurm said. "We want to show her that if she chooses to come to Saint Mary's, this is how she will be treated, too. Saint Mary's life is just an ex­tension of the treatment stu­dents have gotten from VISA and the Admissions Office." 
Throughout the past twelve years, VISA has grown from a handful of students to 230, who are committed to helping see their school grow. 
"VISA is the most important club on campus because it is constantly ensuring Saint Mary's future," Rosswurm said. 


Ke01p 
continued from page 1 
to allow low-income families the opportunity to manage and control their communities and work towards home owner­ship. 
In January 1993, Kemp an­nounced the formation of Em­power America, a new public policy organization. He, along with co-founders William Ben­nett, Jean Kirkpatrick, and Vin Weber, founded the organiza­tion in order to "advance social 
·and economic policies which empower people, not govern­ment bureaucracies, and ex­pand entrepreneurial capital­ism" in both the United States and abroad. 
Kemp recently announced that he will not seek the 1996 Republican presidential nomi­nation. His nomination to HUD by Bush on December 19, 1988 ended Kemp's nine terms rep­resenting western New York in the House of Representatives. 
During those terms, Kemp 
spent seven years serving in 
the Republican leadership as 
chairman of the House 
Republican Conference. 
In addition to his role as co­
director of Empower America, 
Kemp also serves as a distin­
guished fellow at the Heritage 
Foundation and a visiting fel­
low at the Hoover Institute. He 

is on the board of directors of 
Habitat for Humanity, as well as the Opportunities Industrialization Center. 

Kemp, recently named to the Howard University Board, began his professional career as an NFL quarterback. He played for the San Diego Chargers from 1960 to 1962. In both 1964 and 1965, the Buffalo Bills reached the American Football League (AFL) Championship behind Kemp's arm. Kemp was named League's Most Valuable Player in 1965. 
He co-founded the AFL Player's Association and was named the Association's presi­dent five times. 
Kemp is married to Joanne Main. He and his wife have four children -Jeffrey, Jen­nifer, Judith, and James-and eight grandchildren. The Kemps reside in Bethesda, Maryland. 
Kemp's lecture is being spon­sored by Student Union Board (SUB) and co-sponsored by Stu­dent Government and Student Activities. 
When asked what he thought Kemp could offer the Notre Dame community during his visit, SUB Ideas and Issues Chairman Kevin Klau said, "With his roles as both a Cabi­net member and a part of the private sector, (Kemp) offers a perspective on both sides." 
Klau added that Kemp's appearance at Notre Dame is due on large part to the efforts of Karen Dubay from the office of Student Activities. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer 
at 631-5323 



NOTRE DAME FORUM ON ACADEMIC LIFE 
"The Relationship of Teaching and Research at Notre Dame" 
Speaker: Prof. Arvind Varma Department of Chemical Engineering 

Respondent: Prof. Katherine O'Brien O'Keeffe Department of English 
Thursday, February 23, 1995 7:30P.M. CCE Auditorium 
Sponsored by the Faculty Senate All are welcome. 
Wednesday, Februry 22, 1995 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
class of 1998 with 50 percent of the vote.




Baltic States in transition Elections 
"We were very happy about 
By JENNIFER ANTONINI 
News Writer 
The future of the Baltic States is a complex issue, according to Kari Mottola of the Finnish Foreign Ministry Office. 
Mottola offered an explana­tion of the transformation of the former Russian states yes­terday at the Hesburgh Center. 
The Baltics, which include Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia, are undergoing a transforma­tion since their independence from Russia in 1991. Prior to their independence these Baltic States were subject to external and internal crises, he said. 
"The Baltic States wish to be treated like any other sover­eign state," Mottola said. 
Mottola explained that the Baltic States' fight for equality began with becoming indepen­dent from Russia and eliminat­ing any Soviet practices in the States. The Baltics have taken a "no nonsense" attitude to­ward guarding against the So­viets running their country. 
Since their independence, the Baltic States have entered a transition period. Russian troops have been withdrawing from the three Baltic States since August 1994. The econ­omy has been changed as well as Russian training submarines have been dismantled, accord­ing to Mottola. 
The hardest part of the Baltic's reentrance, Mottola 
said, is their fight to be inte­grated into the European Union and North Atlantic Treaty Or­ganization (NATO). 
This integration period means that the Baltic States "have to deliver," Mottola said. 
According to Mottola, aiming to become members puts these States in the position to com­pete. In 1996, the European Union is predicted to enlarge. Mottola sees the Baltic States as having an equal chance at membership in NATO 
Geopolitics and geostrategy will determine if the Baltic States will gain a membership to NATO. The road to stability for the Baltic States is going to be rough but equality will come, Mottola said. 



eckiess 
By Craig Lucas 
Tuesday and Wednesday Feb. 28th and March 1st 7:30p.m. Washington Hall Tickets Available at LaFortune Box Office $3.00 
continued from page 1 
link our class together, and think that a directory that lists seniors according to where they live would really help," Jones said. 
The Paulette Raczkowski (president). Heather Durie (vice-president). Robin Walsh (secretary) and Besty Killian (treasurer) ticket received 39 percent of the vote, and ten percent of the junior class abstained. Fifty-seven percent of the class of 1996 voted yes­terday. 
"We hope that Paulette's ticket stays involved next year because we'll need their help," Jones continued. "We can't wait to get our board in place, lay out our goals and expecta­tions, and get off to a good start." 
The Ellen Coleman (presi­dent), Debbie Dziekan (vice­president), Katie Mahon (sec­retary) and Meghan McNally (treasurer) ticket swept the 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
"Obviously, if (the administrators) were so smart, they wouldn't have done this in the first place," he continued. "They've walked into a mess." 
The HPC, which had not taken a position on the GLND/SMC controversy prior to last night, had decided to wait until it had heard a response from O'Hara before taking ac­tion, according to Bonenberger. 
"Now that we have all the facts, we were able to make an informed decision," she said. 
The writers of the HPC reso­lution voted to support GLND/SMC for one basic rea­son. 
"We sympathize with the cause," Palermo said. "We think the University has been ignorant." 
According to Blandford, the University's actions are reflec­tive of the Church's misguided the results," Coleman said. "We would like to thank every­one who had confidence in us. We hope that we will serve the class of 1998 well." 
The ticket consisting of Marin Shaughnessy (presi­dent), Sarah Grudzinski (vice­president), Amy Moore (secre­tary) and Claire Konstant (treasurer) took 25 percent of the vote, while the Sarah Corkrean (president), Roseann Bour (vice-president), Katie Macdonald (secretary) and Carrie Koontz (treasure) ticket followed with 20 percent. Fifty-nine percent of the class voted, and five percent of those that voted abstained. 
"We want our classmates to become involved with their government from the begin­ning," Coleman said. "We want to begin implementing a recy­cling and volunteering pro­gram right away." 
The election results are unof­ficial until comfirmed 48 hours after the closing of the polls. 
attitude toward homosexual acts. 
"GLND/SMC has never stood in clear opposition to the Church's teachings, but the Church has a long way to grow on this matter," he said. 
As GLND/SMC hopes that the administration eventually ex­tends recognition, Blandford said that the group will contin­ue with its plans. 
"Our goals remain two-fold," he said. "We want to show how embracing and accepting this University is, and we want to continue pushing to resolve this." 
Students interested in show­ing support for homosexuals can do so by passing safe­haven resolutions in their dorms, whereby students show that homosexuality can be tol­erated, and by inviting g,ays and lesbians on campus to give speeches in dorms, according to Blandford. 
"I wouldn't downplay the re­sults of individual actions," Blandford said. "This issue is moving. It is far from dissipat­ing." 

,. ,, 
: ~~. -~ ..... 

,:lf.~\ n:r.{.~ .;~ ,, 
$12 Students 
THURSDAY, MARCH 2 7:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located In O'Laughlln, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 



/'\ORfftU CEMHR 
fOR Tttt <ft R T S 
page 6 
The Observer • NEWS W,dn"d'Y· F'b'""Y=~ 
Religious group to oppose surgeon general 
Kids with cancer survive same, black or white 
By BRENDA COLEMAN  more became virtually identi­ 
Associated Press  cal in both races -67 per­ 
cent for blacks and 66 per­ 
CHICAGO  cent for whites.  
Black children with cancer  "To our knowledge,  
survive as well as their white  African-American children in  
counterparts if they get state­ the general population of the  
of-the art care, even when the  U.S. continue to fare less well  
black youngsters are poorer  than white children," Pui said  
or have worse cancers, a  by telephone Tuesday. "Our  
study found.  results may well be unique to  
"With equal access to effec­ the special setting of the chil­ 
tive medical care, race and  dren's cancer research cen­ 
socioeconomic status no  ter." The most common can­ 
longer affect the cure rate of  cer among all children in the  
childhood cancer," said Dr.  study-798 blacks and 4,507  
Ching-Hon Pui, vice chairman  whites -was acute lym­ 
of hematology-oncology at St.  phoblastic leukemia. It is now  
Jude Children's Research  treated with a bigger combi­ 
Hospital in Memphis.  nation of drugs in higher  
The findings are reported in  doses than before, Pui said.  
Wednesday's issue of The  While the results may be  
Journal of the American  unique to the Memphis hospi­ 
Medical Association.  tal, they suggest that other  
Black children tend to have  hospitals could achieve simi­ 
more aggressive cancers that  lar success given the money  
·are also more advanced when  and facilities. For adults, five­ 
they are diagnosed, Pui said.  year overall cancer survival  
Yet state-of-the art treatment  rates were 53 percent for  
can overcome those prob­ whites and 38 percent for  
lems, he said. Over 30 years  blacks in 1981-1987, the  
ending in 1992, survival  researchers noted.  
among black children at the  Suggested reasons for the  
hospital improved 81 percent,  disparity include that blacks  
the researchers said. St.  have more advanced cancers  
Jude's offers systematic treat­ by the time they are diag­ 
ment and takes patients  nosed, have cancers that are  
regardless of ability to pay.  biologically different, have  
White children's survival  more behaviors that promote  
overall improved 32 percent  cancer, have less access to  
during the same period, so  adequate medical care  
that the proportion of young­ because of poverty or receive  
sters who survive 10 years or  inferior treatment.  


All Freshmen Interested in Business and all Business Sophomores Welcome 
urge Southern Baptists to con­tact their senators about Fos­ter's nomination. 
Foster, an obstetrician from Nashville, was picked Feb. 2 to replace Dr. Joycelyn Elders as the country's top public health officer. 
Elders was fired after saying school children should be taught about masturbation. 
Foster's nomination quickly ran into problems after the White House disclosed he had performed at least one abor­tion, then fewer than 12. That number was revised to 39, plus 55 women who had abortions in a study Foster supervised. 
Some opponents objected to the abortions; others to the lack of reliable information coming from Foster and the White House. 
Southern Baptists oppose abortion except to save the life of a mother. They also favor teaching abstinence to teen­agers and oppose government distribution of contraceptives to teens. 
Foster, on leave as dean of Meharry Medical College in Nashville, made a name for himself by fighting teen-age pregnancy in Nashville's hous­ing projects. 
His "I Have a Future" pro­gram aims to delay sexual ac­tivity in teen-agers through a variety of tactics, including ab­stinence and contraception. Condoms are available to those who request them. 
By VICKI BROWN 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE 

The Southern Baptist Con­vention will oppose President Clinton's choice for U.S. sur­geon general, leaders of the nation's largest Protestant de­nomination said Tuesday. 
Southern Baptists, whose 
15.4 million members include Clinton and Vice President AI Gore, oppose abortion and preach sexual abstinence until marriage -two points on which Baptist leaders criticized Dr. Henry Foster. 
"This is not our sole reason for opposing him, but the man has acknowledged doing at least 39 abortions," said Richard Land, head of the Southern Baptist Christian Life Commission, which deals with public policy issues for the de­nomination. 
Southern Baptist Convention President Jim Henry planned a news conference Wednesday to 

AIDS victim to 
be recipient of 
transplant 
By DANIEL HANEY Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
In a sign of doctors' growing desperation in the fight against AIDS, a patient with the disease will soon receive a bone mar­row transplant from a baboon to rebuild his ravaged immune system. 
The transplant, described Tuesday at a conference spon­sored by the American Associa­tion for the Advancement of Science, is meant to resupply the human bloodstream with baboon blood cells, which do not get infected with the AIDS virus. 
"Given the fact that there is no treatment for AIDS, people have been very comfortable with moving ahead," said Dr. Suzanne Ildstad, who is direct­ing the experiment. 
One earlier attempt at the procedure has failed, but ani­mal experiments suggest that this time, the transplant might work, thanks to a new discov-



Baboon supplies marrow 

ery in immunology. 

Many questions remain, how­ever, including whether baboon blood cells can carry out the same jobs inside a person as human cells do. 
Dr. Fritz Bach, a cross­species transplant researcher at Harvard Medical School, said he doubts it will work. 
"I have concern about how long the cells will survive," he said. "I would be surprised ­pleasantly -if it fulfills every­thing we hope it will." 
Ildstad said the experiment will take place sometime in the next few months on one of sev­eral terminally ill AIDS patients who have been screened for the therapy. 
The operation will be done at San Francisco General Hospital, where doctors are collaborating with Ildstad. 
That doctors would even con­sider such a seemingly out­landish approach demonstrates their frustration at fighting AIDS. Despite more than a decade of all-out research, no treatment has been convinc­ingly shown to even slow the disease. 
The attempt is clearly being taken seriously. Collaborators on the experiment include Drs. Anthony Fauci, head of the Na­tiona! Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, and Dr. Robert Gallo, a pioneering AIDS researcher at the National Can­cer Institute. 
AIDS wrecks the body's abil­ity to fight disease by attacking its blood cells, particularly a category of white cells called T cells. 
Researchers will transplant the baboon marrow cells, called stem cells, that manufacture new blood cells. 
If all goes well, these cells will survive and repopulate the blood with all kinds of baboon white cells, including T cells, as well as red cells. 
Ildstad said her work in lab animals suggests that the trans­planted marrow will per­manently take up residence in its new host and go on produc­ing blood cells indefinitely. 
Experiments giving rat mar­row to mice have been success­ful, she said. Not only does the marrow survive, but the blood cells it makes seem to work perfectly fine. 
In her latest test, she has given human marrow to three baboons. The first baboon to undergo the transplant, six months ago, is still doing well, and 20 percent of its circulating blood cells are now human. 

~o~~ February 24 ~~~ ~~"-'~o/ 9:00 -1:00 pm ~~ ~ ~ $1 admission ~~ &1& LaFortune Ballroom ~ 
Wednesday, February 22, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Personal computers help during tax season 
Preparation time reduced with software 
By VIVIAN MARINO 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

_For a few weeks every winter John Lewis would go into hi­bernation, holed up not because of the chill outside but tlw cold, hard stacks of tax forms, reference book!f and spare calculators awaiting him in Uw dining room. 
"We could only eat on the kitchen table," said Lewis, 57, of Hockville, Md., a recently re­tired lloneywell Corp. market­ing executive. "My wife kept on threatening to leave; of course, she didn't." 
Tax season is a little less of a burden these days. Most of the cumbersome work involved in preparing the Lewises' returns is handled by their personal computer -in less than half the usual preparation time and at a fraction of the cost of hir­ing a professional. 
Many other people, who have had similarly taxing ordeals, are also turning to PC tax preparation software for help this year. 
"The demand for them now is pretty good ... and growing," said David Tremblay, research director for the Software Pub­lishers Association. 
In fact, Tremblay says, sales of tax software have been out­pacing the industry as a whole. 
Revenue of tax software pub­lishers was up 19 percent in the first nine months of 1994 from the previous year, while unit sales jumped 26 percent, he said, quoting the most recent data available. 
For the current tax season, industry leaders TurboTax and TaxCut report sales up around 30 percent and at least 20 per­cent respectively. 
Mark Goines, a vice president at Intuit, which publishes TurboTax, said the heavy demand contributed to a tem­porary backlog of orders. 
Both companies expect de­mand to grow in the future. 
"Clearly, some people will never use tax software, but still there's a large number of peo­ple who could potentially use them," said Daniel Caine, chief developer for TaxCut, which is published by Block Financial Software, a subsidiary of H&R Block. "The category is nowhere near saturated." 
To be sure, the Internal Rev­enue Service estimates that half the 116 million individual tax returns expected this year will be prepared by nonprofession­als, most of the pencil-and­eraser variety. 
The IRS expects to receive 5.4 million re-generated 1040 tax returns this year, up from 4.8 PC f 
million in 1994 and 1.5 million tax so tware 
in 1993. More individuals are Steve Pyreck, an IRS turning to personal spokesman, says tax software computer software for 
help in doing their federal
users usually get their tax re­
income tax returns. While tax
funds a couple of weeks earlier 
programs have been around for atthan those who complete their least a decade, the programs out returns by hand because re­today are much simpler to use and generated returns are neater more affordable, which accounts for and use less paper and are the steady increase in demand in 
recent years.
therefore easier to process. 
RevenueThe steady increase in tax Year Units sold In millions 
software usage, and the poten-1990 
775,000 $38.5 

tial for more, is partly due to 
1991 1,520,000 $43.3
the fact that more people are 
1,600,000 $72.2

buying PCs. About 40 percent of 1992 all U.S. households are ex-1993 2,791,000 $87.8 pected to own one by the end of 1994 Not available n.a.
1995. -Ta_x___________, 
But tax software also is grow-year ing in popularity because the 1993* 2,377,000 $84.1 products have improved. And 1994** 3,178,000 $97.4 prices have come down consid-------------' 
erably, with the average cost 'Taxyear1993istheperlodfrom0ctober
1992 through September 1993. 
for a final-version program at 
**Tax year 1994 is the penod from Octoberaround $30 to $40. 1993 through September1994. 
Early, or planning versions,

which come out in October, go Source:Software Publishers Association AP 
for as little as $8.95, with a cated on their computer promised discount on the final screens. product. The latest souped-up versions 
Some companies, like Par-offer a wide variety of rune­son's Technology, are even giv-tions, including access to virtu­ing limited samples away, while ally all available tax forms and most offer price cuts on pro-a custom form for each user; grams for state income tax on-line advice; up-to-date tax returns. law information; the ability to 
When tax software programs access data from other person­were introduced about 10 years a! finance software; and full­ago, all buyers got for their motion videos on most of the money were tax forms dupli-multimedia CD-ROM programs. 

FEBRUARY 23, 24, 25 AT 8P.M. FEBRUARY 26 AT 2:30 P.M. LITTLE THEAT 
TICKETS: $8/ADULTS; $6/SENIOR CITIZENS & GROUPS; $4/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; $3/STUDENTS TICKETS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY"$ BOX OFFICE. LOCATED IN O"LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM. OPEN FROM 9-5. MON.-FRI. DISCOVER. VISA. MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219/284-4626 
WANT TO MAKE ADIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF ACHILD THIS SUMMER? COME FOR AJOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: CAMP SWEENEY A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES INTERVIEWS WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22 FROM 9:00AM TO 3:00PM IN THE NOTRE DAME LIBRARY FOYER Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer.  
Not going to a dance this weekend? Cbmebowlingwith FLIP SIDE! -the fast growing group dt.-dicated to providing the ND/SMC community with great activities that do not involve alcohol. When? This Saturday, February 25th at 7:00 pm Where? Well, first we will meet at the Library Circle at 7:00 and leave shortly thereafter. Then we will go and eat at aplace that out-does even South Dining Hall...Yes, you guessed it, Burger King! (home of the W~o,erl) Then we will go bowling in Niles (a city that is not South Ben~!) Why? There will be aprize for whoever lets John(FLIP SIDE co-president and ex-pro bowler) win! How Much? My favorite question to answer. (NOT!) It will cost awhoppin' $4.00 for members and $5.Q£ for non,members. (a great incentive to send in your membership dues this month will be the discounts that you car receive on our activities!) WHO DO I CALL NOW THAT I'VE DECIDED THAT I AM GOING TO GO? You can call Mary (4904) and John (1410) to let us know you will be joining us. We would really appreciate advanced notice so give us a call. SEE YOU ON SATURDAY!  

-----~--­






VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, February 22, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiiz.abeth Regan Controller ............................ : ........ Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by tho students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­lion of either instirmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• DESIDERATA 
When self-representation denies justice 
In all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right ... to have the Assistance of Counsel for his defense." U.S. Const. Amend. VI. The Supreme Court has found that the con­stitutional right to effective assistance of counsel includes the right to represent oneself. provided that one "knowingly and intelligently" waives his entitlement td a court-appointed lawyer. 
Needless to say, courts have encoun­tered difficulties in dealing with this holding where the accused suffers men-
Kirsten Dunne 


tal delinquencies. On the one hand is a constitutional right-a right which courts cannot take from an individual absent the most compelling of circumstances. On the other hand, however, is the rea­son underlying the Court's holding regarding the right in the first place­namely, that a defendant's choice to de­fend himself "must be honored out of that respect for the individual which is the lifeblood of the law." Faretta v. California, 422 U.S. at 834 {1975) Does allowing an individual who cannot com­prehend the consequences of his deci­sion to defend himself exemplify respect for that individual? The weight of authority tends to indicate that it does not, and I strongly agree with both the reasoning and conclusions of this 
authority. 
It is generally accepted that the stan­dard for determining competence to waive counsel is higher than the stan­dard for determining competence to stand trial. And although "{t)he determi­nation of competency to waive counsel . . . cannot achieve perfection because of the imprecision of the criteria and the difficulty inherent in any attempt to compass the human mind. " People v. Burnett 188 Cal.App.3d 1314, 1329 (1987), certain issues merit attention in each case. For one, whenever the court has any reason to doubt the defendant's competence to waive his right to coun­sel, it should "undertake an exceedingly careful inquiry into the subject, ordinar­ily by ordering a psychiatric evaluation." Id. at 1319. Reasons to doubt the accused's competence include paranoid distrust of the judicial system, irrational defenses, and statements which make no sense and/or are unresponsive to questions asked. A court should also de­termine whether the accused compre­hends not only the charges against him and the potential penalties, but also his own infirmities. Yet another factor to examine is whether the accused can for­mulate rational responses to charges and coherently communicate them to 
the jury. 

Of course, as the Burnett court elo­quently stated, "{t)he test, in the final analysis, is one of fairness." Id at 1329. Not only must the court keep in mind the "principles of fundamental fairness which must attend a criminal trial", id., but it must accord a certain amount of dignity to the defendant, which might better be done by refusing to allow him to represent himself: "Where, though competent to stand trial, the individual in question is so mentally deficient or physically debilitated that he is unable to defend himself, it cannot show respect to permit him to try. It is demeaning to such a person and makes a mockery of justice ... " Id. at 1325. In other words, the principle which largely gave rise to the right of self-representa­tion in the first place-respect for the individual-is not served where the right is given unrestrained to people who can­not exercise it competently. 
From what I know about the trial of 
Colin Ferguson, I cannot discern that the 
foregoing principles were followed 
therein. There was clearly reason to 
doubt Mr. Ferguson's competence from 

the beginning; indeed, if this had not been so, there would have been no hear­ing to determine competency to stand trial. Although he was found competent to stand trial, this did not necessarily mean that he was also competent to waive his right to counsel. His argu­ments tended to support the conclusion that he did not have the the requisite level of competence -Mr. Ferguson con­tended that someone else had commit­ted the shootings for which he was brought to trial, notwithstanding the fact that several witnesses saw him fire approximately 30 rounds. This would seem to qualify as an "irrational defense", which, as mentioned above, should raise a red flag to the court that the individual might not be competent to defend himself. Moreover, Ferguson clearly was unaware of .his mental in­firmities. At his competency-to-stand­trial hearing, he strongly argued that he was sane. Later, he rejected the insanity defense-a defense which, although it is rarely successful, would seem to apply to Ferguson if it was to apply to anyone. 
Mr. Ferguson seems to have become at least partially aware that he should not have represented himself. Following his conviction Friday night, he asked for a court-appointed attorney for his appeal {a question which will have to wait for resolution). However, he com­pletely lacked this awareness when he originally fought for the right to repre­sent himself, and under such circum­stances, his conviction cannot be justly allowed to stand. Not only does it repre­sent a miscarrriage of justice in a broad sense, but it demonstrates a failure to recognize what the Supreme Court iden­tified twenty years ago as the lifeblood of the law" -respect for the individual. 
When asked what he thought of the outcome of the case, commmentator Daryl Gates responded that "it's a shame New York doesn't have the death penalty." Such a statement invites no intelligent response, but Gates is right in one respect: the outcome is, indeed, a shame. 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92, is a third year law student. 
THEN I &NT!3R. MY PA55­IQORI?, "ROT:6UT".' BINGO/ I'M IN! ANI?taJI< ... :I'Ve cur&13 Pita CF &.-MAlt-! 
teT~ OPffN '!iR tJP, P!?ONTlJ.' 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

To: All readen;. 5eek homeless male with basic computer !>1<ills Por well-paid, securejob. F~ trainingand mental 
health care. Con­
tact writer. 

• Quon: Of TH£ DAY 
''what experience and 
history teach is this­
that people and governments 
never have learned anything 
from history, or acted on prin­
ciples deduced from it." 
-Georg Wilhelm Hegel 
.-·~~~---~-------



ACClSNT 
Wednesday, February 22, 1995 

By Jennifer Lewis 
Accent Wrirer 

."This .~a~ d~finitely a learning experience for me," saidhe bookstore has great t-shirts for Mom ~1gger. I d1dn t only do it for the money. It is more reward­and Dad-but when students want to buy mg when you have a creative idea and you put it on a shirtt-shirts for themselves, they buy them and you are sitting in class and two or three people have itfrom other students. There is a gentle 
on."
knock on the door. You see a young stu­Dig~er does not have future plans in the shirt business. 

dent wearing a spanking new white t-shirt Semor off-campus student Allie took a different approach.

with a creative slogan, and a back pack She and a female companion would roller blade around thedangling over one shoulder. If you are tailgate parties promoting their t-shirt, " The Closest I Got1mpressed with the shipment, you gladly hand over ten to 

to a 4.0 was My Blood Alcohol Level." 
tw~lve bucks in ex_chan_ge for the t-shirt. If you are disap­~lli.e came up wi~h the idea after seeing the shirt at ,pmnt~d, you se_nd h1m w1th empty pockets to your neighbors. 
MI~h1ga? State d_urmg her freshman year. Her friend 
Wh1le watchmg the young entrepreneur you are thinking, 
Alh.son IS an artist and drew a leprechaun double­
~hat a great way to make a fast buck. However, you notice 
fistmg two beer cans. Allie bought three hundred
tmy beads of sweat dripping from the solicitor's forehead. Is 
t-shirts the summer before her sophomore year
it w~>rth ~he risk? Is it re_ally illegal? Yet, what would college 
and currently only has twenty left. She used the
be hke Without unauthonzed t-shirts? 
extra money to buy plane tickets to California
Mod Quad junior Jeff created two t-shirts last year for the and Atlanta. 
Boston College and Florida State games. He purchased one 
"I would definitely do it again," said Allie
hundred of each t-shirt from an acquaintance that runs an 
"although I was a little scared about getting
underground printing company in his basement in Houston 
caught. I figured they were on foot and I was 
T~xas. ~~ch shi~t ~ost roughly $6.50 after being printed: 
on Roller blades, so if they saw us, we would
w1th _udd1twnal sh1ppmg and handling to South Bend. 
have the advantage."· 
Jeff used the dorm room approach but, instead of going Some of Allie's tips: door to door, he directly pulled six to seven of his friends 
•Students like alcohol-related topics. 
aside and made a proposition. If each friend sold ten t-shirts, 
•Hit Notre Dame and Saint Mary'
they would each get a shirt free. That would account for 
Alumni-they spend more money.
approximately seventy t-shirts, and Jeff sold the rest on his 
•Tailgate parties are fun places to sell own. your shirts. 
, The Boston Co!!ege t-shirt with the slogan "Revenge Never 
Two Saint Mary's students shared a
fasted so Sweet, sold out before the game started. 
similar idea. Erin and Leslie were dissatis­
:·Last year, I would see t-shirts flying around, and I thought 
fied with the selection of hats in the Saint
th1s year Notre Dame had a good chance to win the champi­
Mary's bookstore and decided to create
onship," Jeff said. "So, I designed some pretty cool shirts their own.
with the leprechaun and the BC eagle and sold them. It wa~ 
"We love it when we see our hats around 
a lot harder selling the FSU shirts, because the team had 
campus. I have even seen one in the Orlando air­
almady suiTered a couple of loses." 
port," said Erin. "However, we had an unrealistic goal. 
\!'hon asked if he would do it again Jeff said, "No, it's a According to Leslie, it was a lot more work than they ex­pam. It takes up too much time...well, maybe. Only if some­pected. They purchased two hundred and fifty hats in two ono comes up with a great idea." 
different shades of green. Currently they have only sold oneWhen Jeff attempted to sell shirts at McCandless Hall at hundred and seventy-five. 
Saint Mary's, he was asked to leave. 
"College students just do not have that much money to"If we see anyone soliciting, we ask them to leave " said 
spend," said Leslie. "People would rather have three pitchers ~--~.......____.
Holy Cross R.A. Laure DeMettia. "We do not assume 'if it is of beer instead of a hat. We were very careful. We were alsolegal or illegal, soliciting is not permitted in the dorms." 
r.e~pectful to our H.~·s. We did not put up any signs adver­S_inee _N<~tre Dame con~rols all sales of products bearing the tJsmg our ~ats, a~d If they were in the hall we would bypassUmvers1ty s trademark, 1f a student is caught at Notre Dame them. All m all, 1t taught us a lesson in business and howselling unauthorized t-shirts, the shirts are immediately con­
important marketing really is." ' 
fiscated and a disciplinary action is enforced. 
Leslie and Erin's suggestions: When asked about the risks involved, junior t-shirt en­•Do not overload on your first order. If they sell, order t~epreneur "Digger" said, "''ve heard rumors about guys get­more.
till~ busted, but the thought never enter my mind." 
•Freshman Orientation is the biggest weekend for sales. 
D1gger used the same printing organization in Houston to 
•Be prepared to put a lot of time into it. 
originate his t-shirts. breaking numerous copyright laws in Som.e students are not so lucky. Zahm Hall senior Rogerthe proeess. Digger ereated three t-shirts which were all fair­lost s1x hundred dollars selling unauthorized "Northernly successful with his Notre Dame bookstore basketball Exposure" t-shirts before the Florida State game. He was"Largest Five on Five in the World" as his top seller. 
caught by Pangborn's rectress. and all his t-shirts were __.._
"It wasn't a big plan," said Digger. "For the Cotton Bowl confiscated. He was forced to hand over his profits on all two ••••-.-.1
shirt. I drew my own design, stolen off of Sports Illustrated hun~red t-shirts to student affairs, which gave the money toand took it to Kinko's. For the bookstore basketball, I stol~ chanty.
lleebok's Above the Rim logo." 
"It ended up working out really well," Hoger said. "Thel?igger and his joint partner advertised by wearing his money was used to pay the heating bill for a South Bend fam­sh1rts around Stepan courts two hours each day. He original­
ily, for the entire month of January." 
ly purchased one hundred t-shirts, which sold instanta­In gambling with unauthorized t-shirts, there may be moreneously. 
to lose than there is to win. Nevertheless, next year thereThe second shipment did not come into Chicago until four will be an array oft-shirts with brand new creative slogans todays before the "final four" games. To compound the prob­
accompany a shipment of the old classics 
lem, the order was still in Chicago and would not be shipped for incoming to South Mend until after the tournament. To save their freshman.
endeavor, Digger and his accomplice hopped in his car at 
11:15 PM and drove to Chicago. The trip was well worth it, as they sold another hundred t-shirts. 
According to Digger, if he was going to do it all over again he would have had a better strategy. Some facts to remem­ber inelude: 
•If 
it does not have Notre Dame on it, it is not going to sell. 

•Timing 
is everything. If it is a big event, there is going to be competition. 

•Saint 
Mary's buys a Jot oft-shirts. 


-------~---------~-----~---~-­


------·----------. 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February 22, 1995 
• fOOTBAll 


McMahon new Irish DB coach Kentucky close to title 
Special to The Observer ranked fourth in the Big Ten, permitting 
only 120.3 passing yards per game, with 
Tom McMahon, defensive backfield Messenger ranking 14th nationally in coach the last three years at Wisonsin, interceptions. has been named secondary coach at the Prior to coming to Wisconsin, University of Notre Dame by head foot­McMahon spent three seasons (1989­ball coach Lou Holtz. 1991) as secondary coach at Arizona 
McMahon replaces Dean Pees, who State -with his '90 Sun Devil unit rank­coached the Irish defensive backs for ing fifth nationally in pass efficiency one season before resigning to become defense and leading the Pacific-1 0 in defensive coordinator at Michigan State. interceptions. 
In his three years on Barry Alvarez' He coached Arizona State defensive Badger staff, McMahon saw Wisconsin backs Nathan LaDuke and Phillipi lead the nation in interceptions in 1993 Sparks, both finalists for the '90 Jim with 23 -as Jeff Messenger paced the Thorpe Award -with both Sparks and Big Ten with seven pickoffs. darren Woodson being chosen in the McMahon's '94 Wisconsin pass defense first two rounds of the '92 NFL Draft. 

•NBA 

.,_ 
Grateful Grant is the King of NBA rookies 
Associated Press "Lots of times, I thought I'd be in Europe, or back home working-some­
CINCINNATI 

where," said Grant, who is from
OK, so it sounds corny. Brian Grant, Georgetown, Ohio. "The surprisingenjoying a notable NBA rookie season, thing is, if you work hard, good things believes that his hard work paid off. 

will come to you. I thought that was
He is opening some eyes with the 

only in high school and college."
Sacramento Kings. 

He has helped Sacramento win 28
After a contract holdout kept him out 

games this season, as many wins as
of training camp, Grant won the power they had all last season.

forward job 23 games into the season. 

"He's done everything we've asked ofIn his first full month as a starter, he him," Kings coach Garry St. Jean said.
became .the NBA's rookie of the month, 

"There's a very big upside to his
averaging 15.8 points and 9.7 rebounds basketball. I couldn't give you a down­in 15 games. He started the NBA's rook­side."

ie all-star game. 

Through three quarters Monday night But it wasn't always clear to Grant, against the Detroit Pistons, Grant had a
when he was playing for Xavier 

game-high 20 points, and SacramentoUniversity in Cincinnati, that he would had a two-point lead. 
realize his dream of playing in the 

But Grant was blanked in the fourthNational Basketball Association. 
quarter. He finished with 20 points ­nine years, stifling 20th-ranked Alabama for a 72-52 victory Tuesday night. 
The Wildcats (19-4 overall, 11-2 SEC) went to a rarely used zone defense to hold Alabama (18-7, 8-5) to its worst offensive showing of the season, sending much of the sellout crowd of 15,043 to the exits midway through the second half. 
Kentucky took control early with a 22­3 run that turned a 10-6 deficit into a 28-13 lead with 3:23 remaining in the first half. Alabama never got within 10 points the rest of the way. 
Junior forward Walter McCarty, aver-
Kentucky had the best record in the SEC in 1990-91 but didn't win the championship because of NCAA proba­tion. 
The Wildcats now hold a 1 1/2-game lead over Mississippi State with only three conference games to go in quest of their first official title since 1985-86. They also clinched a tie for the Eastern Division title. 
It was a dreadful offensive display by Alabama, which continued to struggle at home against conference opponents. The Tide has now lost four of the seven SEC games played at Coleman Coliseum, but this was the worst defeat of the sea­son no matter the location. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Robin Hood Showing Thursday LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre 8/1030 pm $1 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: Are you looking for that service pro· ject that really makes a difference, and is a lot of fun? look no fur­ther ... 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT 
Youth Mentoring at the NE Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS 
AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30 
meet at room 161 or Main Circle Questions?-Brian Tierney x1058 
Farley Hall Players Present: 
Euripides' MEDEA 
A New Translation by Brendan 
Kennelly 
Performances begin at 8:00pm on: 
Saturday, Feb. 25th 
Sunday, Feb. 26th 
Monday, Feb. 27th 
At the loft in Lafortune 
Tickets are $4 at the Lafortune Info Desk 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stay of two nights required. $125 advance deposit per room. Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll Road, 15 miles from Campus. Send request by mail to 3011 Belvedere Rd, Elkhart, IN 46514 or fax to 219­262-1590. 
FREE LAUNDRY! !I 
Saturday (2/25) and Sunday (2/26) 
in LaFortune and Badin Annex 
HURRY UP and reserve your two 
hour time slot this Wed., Thurs., or 
Fri. at the LaFortune info desk. 
SPACE IS LIMITED!!! 
love Affair Showing this Fri & Sat 8/10:30$2 Cushing Auditorium 
Used Texts Cheapll Check out Pandora's Books 233-2342 ND ave & Howard st 1 0-6 m-sat 9-3 sundays 


ILOST&FOUNDI 
HELP! I've lost my 18 inch gold necklace with oval-shaped pendant that has the initial "l" inside. It has great sentimental value. If you've found it, please call liza @ X4991 
FOUND: Women's gold bracelet. 
Found in NDH. Has a name on it. Call Megan @x4072 to identify. 
FOUND: Woman's wrist watch. On stairs between North dining hall & Flanner, at 9 a.m. wednsday 2/15. Call to identify! Justin at X1765. 
LOST WATCH!!l!l I lost my watch in O'Shag room 208 last Thursday, 2-16. It has a white face with a wide black band. The numbers are unique. It's very important to me! Please call Nancy, 277-0655. 
FOUND: miraculous medal on Fri. AM near the ACC. Call Maureen at X3295 to claim. 
LOST: A LONG BLACK 
WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT 
AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10 
(FISHER-WALSH DANCE) 
PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 
273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­
REWARDIIII! 


WANTED 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party 
Cruise 6 Days $279! Includes 12 
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great 
Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE 
Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights 
Air & Hotel From $429! Spring 
Break Travel1-800-678-6386 Florida's ·Spring Break Hotspots! PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $129! WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $159! Key West $229! Daytona Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­800-678-6386 

RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS, GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE WHILE BUILDING YOUR RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000 (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER: VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­265-7691 
SUMMER JOBS-COUNSELORS & STAFF BOYS SPORTS CAMP/MASS. TOP SALARY RM/BD/LAUNDRY, TRAVEL ALLOWANCE. MUST HAVE SKILL IN ONE OF THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES: Archery, Baseball, Basketball, Drums, Football, Golf, Guitar, Ice Hockey, Lacrosse, lifeguard, Nature, Nurses, Photography, Piano, Pool, Rocketry, Rollerblading, Ropes, Sailing, Scuba, Secretary, Soccer, Tennis, Track, Video, Waterski, Windsurfing, Weights, Wood, Yearbook. Call or write: Camp Winadu, 2255 Glades Rd., Suite 406E, Boca Raton, Fl33431, (800)494-6238 Recruiter will be on campus DATE: 3/6 TIME: 10:00am­4:00pm PLACE: Dooley Room -Lafortune. STOP BY-No appoint­ment needed. 
COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER· 
SON, coed Mass. Swimming, ten­
nis, baseball, basketball, soccer, 
sailing, windsurfing, waterskiing, 
arts/crafts, theatre, woodworking, 
rocketry, archery, judo, yearbook, 
photography, video, radio, comput­
er, MORE! Super kids, great food, 
friendly, fun! NO general coun­
selors. 800-STAFF95 CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­206-634-0468 ext. C55843 

FOR RENT 
Wanted: 5 students for completely remod­eled home. Close to N.D. large rec. room, washer and dryer, security system. Rent for summer school and/or fall semester. Call NOW 277-0636 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 

[ FORSALE 
CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME 
Immaculate Condo with the latest 
decor and sharper than new. Call 
Harold Zeltwanger 291-9338 or 
ERA All Star Realty 255-8789. 
For Sale: Technics 5-disc cd player w/remote-perfect condition $175 or best offer-X0640 

TICKETS 
$$$$ 
Need 4 Marquette GA's 
Call Ted x3402 
$$$$ 
I need one GA for Marquette 
Call Molly at 284-5151. 
Help! My father is coming from NY for the Marquette game -I NEED ONE GA FOR MARQUETTE GAME Please Call Pat x1130-Thanks. 
HELP!!!! I need one Marquette GA Father wants to see Irish play Nancy 271-7 494 
.___P_ER_S_O_N_AL __.I_
_ 

000 The Copy Shop 000 
LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!!! 
Phone 631-COPY 
ATTENTION FRESHMAN! 
Come find out what the coolest organization on campus is all about. the 
SPORTS MANAGERS 
ORGANIZATION Info meeting, WED, 2/22 8:00pm in Loftus (behind and N of JACC) 
WATCH JENNY JONES ON 
MARCH 1ST -its on at 4:00 on WGN. See Nate dog on luther! 
*************HELP!***************** 
I need a ride one-way to 
Philadelphia for Spring Break. Willing to share expenses. Call Meg@ x-1255 
Desperately seeking ride to Padre for Spring Break. Will split gas and 
tolls in exchange. Call Bridget at 
x2702. 

LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER -I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, without drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural product-guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209-2150. 
If there are any gals interested in 
CIW or line dancing, call the Kid at 
x1694 Alii want to know, Sal Paradise, is who you are. Send me a place and a time. JK 

Now who's the lush? 
Best of luck at the College Bowl regionals to londomers 
Tyler Hower and Dave Dietrich 
(and their teammates)l 
-The london Program­

2 LUSTY BABES need ride to Key West. Call Kim x4528 or Colleen 287-7353 and give your best offer. 
"I want a head of lettuce." "It's so big drinks skim milk." "Check out Kermit Hole." Who can name this dining hall table? 
Morgs, Get better. One more weekend is not going by before we party again. How does Bridget's sound? You know I'm ready. 
Barry, Whatever you do, don't hit the "off'switch. 
GipperSchmipper. Who needs it? 
What will Bregande give me for tak­ing him to school every week? 
P.S. Cash is suitable 
Hey der Tony. I am sorry to say you will still be knownas No-Spice. And Yaley, you need to stop attend­ing Builders Administrative Meetings. They are bad for your health. Rich Van Zeyl is looking to buy a flobie for his roommates birth­day, call him at home to keep up the surprise (708) 532-8696. George, when is Arbor day? And finally Jamie, what is it exactly that you do out in Tufts to scare off the women? 
Wednesday, February 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 



Spartans, Respert reap more respect, nip Wolverines, 67-64 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 

Shawn Respert and Quinton Brooks each scored 21 points as No. 10 Michigan State sur­vived a cold shooting night and held on for a 6 7-64 victory over Michigan Tuesday night. 
Michigan State (19-4, 11-3 Big Ten) led throughout the second half, but didn't get a field goal after a jumper by Jon Garavaglia gave them a 65-60 lead with 3:03 left. 
Each team had trouble scor­ing again until Maceo Baston put back Jimmy King's miss with a minute remaining to cut the margin to 65-62. Baston was fouled but missed the free throw. 
Michigan (14-11, 8-5) got the rebound and Baston was fouled by Garavaglia after rebounding Ray Jackson's miss. He hit both foul shots with 37 seconds left to slice the Michigan State lead to one point. 
Respert was fouled immedi­ately on the inbound play and hit both free throws to push the lead back to three. 
The Wolverines worked the ball around for a final shot, but it was tipped away by Respert. Jackson recovered under the Spartans' basket and Michigan called timeout with 6.9 seconds left. Jackson's 3-point attempt with two seconds remaining fell short. 
Michigan State led 27-19 with 8 1/2 minutes left in the first half-the biggest lead by ei­ther team -but Michigan an­swered with a 15-6 run to go ahead 34-33 with 1:59 remain­ing. Maceo Baston had seven points during the spurt. 

The Spartans tied the score at 34-34 on a Snow free throw, then regained the lead on a pair of free throws by Brooks, who had 13 points in the first half. 
But Makhtar Ndiaye scored on a putback to send the teams off the court at halftime tied at 36-36. 
Jackson and Maurice Taylor finished with 17 points apiece for Michigan, and King and Baston added 13 apiece. Baston also had 10 rebounds. 
Snow had 11 points and 10 assists, while Jamie Feick led Michigan State with 12 re­bounds. 

Join The Observer staff 
By WILLIAM KATES 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. No. 17 Syracuse, led by John turnovers and a 25-13 rebounding edge in the second half. 
The Panthers shaved Syracuse's lead to 73-64 on 









Wallace's 20 points. built a 29-Orlando Antiqua's 3-pointerpoint second-half lead, then with 2:36 to play. Syracuse hit withstood a late surge to beat 10 consecutive free throws in Pittsburgh 85-7 2 Tuesday the final 1:55.
1995 Transfer Orientation 
night. Pittsburgh, which overcame a Syracuse (18-6, 11-4 Big 15-point deficit in losing to East) shot 71 percent in the 
Syracuse 65-63 in the first
Chairperson 
first half. hitting 20 of 28 shots, meeting this season, got 21 in stopping a three-game losing 
points from Jaime Peterson streak and defeating Pittsburgh before he fouled out with 1:14 (7-16, 3-12) for the eighth con­
to play and 15 from Antigua. 
Pick up applications in Student Government office 
secutive time. 
Lawrence Moten finished The Orangemen led 45-24 at 
with 19 points for Syracuse and
Second Floor LaFortune 
halftime and stretched the Michael Lloyd added 14, includ­cushion to 59-30 with a 14-6 ing 6-for-6 from the foul line in spurt to start the second half. the final two minutes.
Application Deadline: 
The undermanned Panthers, Wallace was perfect on six with only seven scholarship shots from the field and two 
players on the roster, battled free throws for 14 points in the back, aided by 10 Syracuse first half. 
March 1st, 4:00pm 
LrmEMILTON 
(FEATURING PETER O'ROURKE) 
at 
Bridget's Tavern 
Your Connection To 
Wednesday, February 22 
O'HARE 

11:00 p.m. and 
MIDWAY 


All Times Listed Are Local Times 
• 
Wolf Tanning Btcla 

• 
Facial Tanners 


• 
Luxurious, Cleln Private Rooms 

• 
Stereo l Body Cooling wHh Every Lounge 


Tan All Yoy Can 
Minutes from Campus
for one month ~35.00 State Road 2311ronwood 
Next to Papa John's 
Closed Sun. &Mon.
272-0312 



-~ ~--~­

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 22, 1995 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Allen, Huskies surge past feeble Eagles, 88-75 
By CHRISTINE HANLEY 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. 
Ray Allen matched his career-high with 31 points and No. 4 Connecticut used a 19-2 run early in the second half Tuesday night for an 88-75 comeback victory over Boston College. 
The Huskies (21-2, 14-1 Big East) were down by nine points three times early in the second before making the big run that sent them to their 15th straight win over the Eagles. 
Allen, who scored a season­low 11 points Saturday when Connecticut was thrashed 96­73 by Villanova, finished 11­for-20 from the field, including 6-for-11 from 3-point range. 
Donny Marshall finished with 20 points and Brian Fair and Travis Knight each added 12 as 


Accelerated Program in Nursing 
• Earn a B.S. degree in nursing • Eligi"bility requirement baccalaureate degree as of May'95 • Program begins May30, 1995 and ends July, 1996 Application materials must be submitted by MMCh 1,1995. For more information contact, 
Saint Mary's College Admission Office at (219) 284-4587. 

the Huskies rebounded from 14 and Danya Abrams had 13. Boston College (8-15, 2-13). Connecticut's run with a 3­their first Big East loss of the After Abrams put Boston which had built its halftime pointer to make it 62-57 with season. College up 52-43 with a base­lead by forcing nine turnovers 9:41 remaining, but the Eagles 
Paul Grant led BC with a ca­line jumper, Marshall started and shooting 55 percent from failed to get closer the rest of reer-high 20 points, one better the Huskies' spurt with a 3-the field, was held to Antonio the way. than the 19 he scored in loss pointer and Allen scored the Granger's pullup jumper during It didn't look like a game be­Saturday against St. John's. last eight points, making it 62-the 4 1/2-minute stretch. tween the best and worst of the Duane Woodward finished with 54 on a three-point play. Woodward ended Big East. 

Sunday, February 26 • 7-8:30 pm Thursday, March 2 • 7-8:30 pm 
Mind, Body, Spirit-How do you develop the spirit In the gray winter of South Bend? 
An experience of prayer followed by discussion helping us to bring all of our life experiences to God in prayer. Get the jump on a fruitful Lenten season. 
Presenter: john Dunne, C.5.C., Department of Theology Facilitator: Mary Vaccaro, rector of Walsh Hall 
"Theology 100 Is over. I have this Bible sitting on my shelf. There must be some way to put It to use after all that study. After all, It Is Lent." 
Come participate in a form of prayer that will bring the Bible alive in ways you may not have thought of before. Appreciate the Sunday readings in a different light. 
Presenter: Regina Coli, C.S.]., Department of Theology 
EACH SESSION WILL INCLUDE: AN EXPERIENCE OF PRAYER • PRESENTATION BY SPEAKER OR PANEL • QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD • REFRESHMENTS 
Sunday, March 5 • 7-8:30 pm 
What Is Christian Service all about? So much to do, so little time... 
How can we live out the Christian value of service for others? What is the relationship between service and a strong prayer life? The panel will focus on their experience of relating the two challenges. 
Panel members: Greg Behr, Notre Dame student, Felicia Leon and Dan Driscoll, married couple, Katie Glynn, Notre Dame student, joe Ross, C. S.C., rector of Morrissey Hall 

fEBRUARY 26, MARCH 2, 5, 1995 • KEENAN-STANFORD CHAPEL, 7-8:30 PM 0MPU5 
STUDENTS ARE WELCOME TO ATIEND ALL THREE SESSIONS OR AS MANY OF THE THREE AS THEY CAN. 
MINISTRY 


Club Registration packets may now be picked up at either the Office of Student Activities or the Club Coordination Council Deadline to turn in: March 9, 1995 *Any Packets received after this date will not be considered for funding.  


Wednesday, February 22, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• BOXING 
• COWGE BASKETBALL 
Tyson ready to rumble next month 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

State prison officials say for­mer heavyweight champ Mike Tyson is still scheduled for re­lease next month from the Indiana Youth Center, despite a report he could be let go this week. 
Boxing promoter Don King 
backed away from his state­Tuesday, King seemed to back ments Tuesday that there was a away from his earlier com­"very good" possibility that ments. Mike Tyson would be released "Mike will be out when they from prison this week. let him out," he said. "I don't 
King was quoted in Tuesday's want to be put in a position of New York Times as saying speculating." Tyson had signed release pa­Tyson is serving a six-year pers and could be freed sentence in Indiana for a 1992 Wednesday. But in Boston later rape conviction. 
Keaney 
continued from page 16 
his opponent out. He compares favorable to 1994 graduate Brian Weiford·who jabbed his way to titles last year and in 1993. But Weiford was a longtime student of boxing where Keaney is more like a student cramming for a final. 
It doesn't help the cause that he will not partic­ipate today in what would have be his final spar­ring session. lie is one of five boxers playing in the interhall basketball finals tonight in the JACC Arena. Nate Mick, Keaney, and Jeff Goddard for the Off-Campus team, Ryan Walker and Dave Baker for Grace. 
''I'm not happy about missing practice but I didn't think our team would get to the playoffs and here we are in the finals." 
If basketball prepared Keaney for boxing in any way it will be his ability to handle the spot­light. 
"I think a lot of guys there first time have never performed before a crowd so they get all excit­ed," Keaney said. "I remember playing in Kentucky's Hupp Arena and the crowd was so loud it nearly knocked me out of the gym. But you realize after a while that you have to calm down and play your game." 
Keaney tried boxing at the advice of Mulderrig and friend and fellow boxer Chris Marando who convinced him it was his best possible rout to getting back in shape. 
"I actually thought a little about it last year, but then it came around this year and I was look­ing for a way to get back to in the shape I was when I stopped playing for the basketball team (last spring)," said Keaney who is under 180 pounds after playing basketball at 185. "I'm in great shape now and have enjoyed the sport more than I ever thought I would." 
And then someone reminds Keaney that he could face Mike Mantey, last year's 180 cham­pion somewhere down the rode. He smiles and shrugs and says the only thing he can. 
"This guys lift and are bigger than me. All I can do is ...jab." 
Pairings: The trainers and managers pairs and seed the fighters late tonight but the top seeds in each weight class are all but set. 
135-Eric Garcia 
140 -Greg Marks 
145 • Dan Couri 
150 -Chris Rosen 
155 -Eric Hillegas 
160-Mike Thompson 
165-John Christoforetti 
170 -Jeff Goddard 
175-Rob Naticchia 
180 -Mike Mantey 
There might not be a 185 division in favor of a full eight boxers competing in the heavyweight ranks. It would mark the first time in years that more than six fighters filled the heaviest weight class. Greg Stec, Jason Svadeba, Baker and Chad Harrison would top a talented group of big men if the committee decides to group them all to­gether. 
Be the one 
who brings the fun 
to Notre Dame. 
Bring the best speakers, the funniest comedians and the most popular entertainers to campus ...and get paid for it. 
Three positions for programming assistants 
Hurting Hoosiers 
By STEVE HERMAN 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON,Ind. 

An NCAA tournament with· out Indiana? March Madness minus the General in the red sweater? 
Unless the Hoosiers sudden­ly find their scoring touch, that could be the capper for a season that already has seen: 
-a 50-game home-court winning streak snapped. ...... 10 losses, the most since 1990. 
-a loss to Michigan in which Indiana shot less than 30 percent. 
-play so poor that coach Bob Knight had to deal with retirement talk and wondered out loud whether the new style of speed and 3-pointers had passed him by. 
"I hate the clock and the 3­point shot,'' Knight said after a sloppy win over Northwestern. "I wish I had retired seven years ago and wouldn't q~ve to put up with that ... because I don't even like the game.'' 
Knight... c~rtainly can't like 
1 his position as his team bids for a lOth straight NCAA tournament berth. With five games r~maining -all hut one against teams with better overall records -and no postseason conference tour­nament, the. Hoosiers proba­
1 bly would have to finish at least 18-12 to make the 64· team field. "I don't have any pretense that we'te a national con­tender," Knight said after a loss to Michigan snapped the nation's longest home win· ning streak at 50 games last month. "I'd just like to see us develop an attitude toward play that makes us as good as we can be ... not game-by· game but possession-by-pos­session. Then it would be interesting to see what kind of team we have:•· How could a team that was 21-9 last season and a pre­$eason Top 10 pick fall so far? The answer is in the offense. Except for senior 
Alan Henderson, Indiana has none. 
Opponents have been able to protect the middle, know­ing the Hoosiers have no con­sistent outside shooter. Since the end of December, Indiana has not won more than two consecutive games. 
"Usually, Indiana can beat you to death from the outside, but they've struggled with that this season, as we all know," Michigan coach Steve Fisher said. 
Henderson, a 6-foot-9 senior, leads the Big Ten in field goal percentage at .594 and is second in scoring at 
23.3 points a game. Forward Brian Evans, averaging 16.8 points and a team-high 3.2 assists, is the only other dou­ble-figure scorer but has been · inconsistent. 
As a team, the Hoosiers are shooting .474, their worst since Knight's first Indiana team went .454 in 1971-72. Even free throws, normally a point of Hoosier pride, are tough to make-.672 from the foul line is the worst since .644 in 1970-71, the year before Knight arrived. 
In another loss at Michigan on Sunday, Indiana shot .296 and Henderson was held to 12 points on 4-of-13 from the field. The Hoosiers' season average of 75.2 points a game is the lowest since they aver­aged 71.2 in 1984-85, the last time they did not make the NCAA tourney. 
Knight was asked if the Hoosiers stay after practice to work on shooting. 
"No, we don't allow them to shoot," he said sarcastically. "We spend almost no time working on shooting. We practice our entrance and exit to the locker room." 
Had he ever seen a poorer 
shooting performance? 
"If I have, I blotted it out of 
my mind," he said. 
With the graduation of 
Damon Bailey, Todd Leary 
and Pat Graham, all effective 
outside scorers, Knight has 
gone with freshmen. 
3arley 2lall:I!layers :Present: 
are available for 1995-1996 to students with  Euripides'  
leadership ability and creative ideas who want to improve student life by  Medea  
planning campus-wide events.  New Translation bu Brendan Kcnncllu  

Perfom1ances begin at 8:00pm on: 
Pick up an application in the Student Activities Office 
Saturday, February 25th
(315 LaFortune) and return it by Friday, March 10th. 
Sunday, February 26th Monday, February 27th Interviews will be conducted March 23rd and March 24th so sign up for an interview 
At the Lotl in Lafortune when you turn in your application. 
Tickets are $4.00 Available at the Lafortune Information Desk 
Questions? 

Call Gayle Spencer at 631-7308 
­
, I 
-~----------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 22, 1995 
• SAINT MJUrt'S BASKETBAll

• SPORTS BRIEFS . 
CLIMBI':'ri' WA~~;1SCH ULE -The climbing wall is 

Taubenheim shines but Belles bow, 66-56 
now open for us~.. The,+ hours will be Sundays. 2:00­
5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:0Q-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial an(,!. anyone interested in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. VARSITY LACROSSE • A statistician is nee.ded for,. men's yarsity .. _.lt~;~'t()ss:e_··.·· games:''call Coach Coorigan at 1-5108. Lacrosse experi­ence necessary. '·· . , •• ;. INTERHALL LACROSSE :if' The RecSports office ·t:$'' offering interhalllacrosse with the deadline being February 23rd. The mandatory captl).ips' meet~ ing will be at 5:00 I'M in the JACC auditorit~m on the same date. Any questions please call1-6100. SPORTSTALK-Women's Basketball star Beth Morgan will be featured on Sunday night .at 7:30 on WVF'I 640 
AM. .EJ"' 
SPORTS MANAGING-There will be an informational meeting for all Fr¢shman"'' 

By ARWEN DICKEY of the half, but Aurora sunk a three-pointer They put on pressure in the passing lanes Sports Writer to tie up the score 28-28. The Spartans and on the boards." took off with an 11 point run, and they The Belles had a stellar performance by Playing catch-up last night, the 5-16 
never looked back. junior forward Jennie Taubenheim who Saint Mary's basketball team was defeated 
"They threw in a half-court run and jump scored 20 points, grabbed 16 rebounds and by the 20-5 Spartans of Aurora University which created problems-for us,'S-aid Wood. had a three-point goal. Sophomore forward in a tight game, 66-56. 
Even though the Belles kept the game Katy Lalli also scored in double digits with Early in the first half, Aurora went on a 
close early in the second half, Aurora never ten while junior guard Colleen Andrews 9-2 run. Saint Mary's kept after the gave up the lead again. The Spartans slow­had seven including a three-pointer.Spartans though and tied up the game at 
ly picked at Saint Mary's taking advantage Sophomore Marianne Banko and freshman 17 with 6:02 left in the half. Although 
of foul shots making 18-25 and three-point Julie McGill had nine and six rebounds Aurora took the lead again, the Belles opportunities with five. respectively.finally got on top, 24-23, with 59 seconds 
The Belles tried to come back late in the 'We had three girls out, and so we had left. Saint Mary's went into the locker room second half, but to no avail. Saint Mary's people without experience playing. at the half leading the Spartans, 26-25. 
scored 30 points in the second half com­Hopefully we can get people healthy. We The Belles had a breakdown in the sec­
pared to Aurora's 41. are going to work on our press and defen­ond half according to head coach Marvin 
Wood commented, "Our shooting was sive scheme for Anderson University on Wood. Saint Mary's scored the first bucket 
poor, and they were quicker than we were. Saturday," said Wood. 
Men 

continued from page 16 
club. 

The Crime's Pat Keaney and Bryan Corbett will have to stop Grace's big men, Dave Baker and Tom Leahy, from taking a bite out of the Crime. 
Baker won Monday's 40-39 win over Stanford by sinking two fr.ee-throws with three sec­
Wooten 
continued from page 16 
Monday night and, according to PE coach Kent Anderson, the Pyros are pretty confident they will have a handle on Walsh, judging from their regular sea­son win. "We are going on our last game against them," he said. 
"They used a full court press, and we were able to handle it, so we are not worried. If we do the same things we did in that game, we will be alright. We are a bigger team than Walsh, and I don't see them compen­sating for our size. They would have to block out really well to stop us." 
Both teams are looking for their key players to lead them to victory. For PE, Anderson named guard Shelly Demott and inside player Kristina Ervin. According to Carlevato, all starting five players are es­sential for a win. "Genna Gwynn really sets the tempo and controls the team out there, and I would say Kelly Nicholas is the best athlete on the court," he said. 
It is obvious both teams are fired up for the game, which begins at 7 p.m. on the main court of the JACC. 
onds left. Sports Manager @ 8:00 pm in Loftus F 11 interested in bec(}ming a 

Grace's Charlie Stafford Auditoriqm on ...... · y) .. 
should benefit from playing on the 22nd:' · Questi . '· ;· 
the bigger JACC floor. Its 6482. · . ;iAtL;~:,c•;., 
increased width and length will 
enable him to penetrate and There are still spots •open in 
CHALLENGE-U-AEROBICS~. 

create more open shots for his some.~~ep Glasses· ~ .~ella:& .... 
teammates. 
otheraerobiCs classes. · · Stop•+ by RecSports to·register or call for more info at 1~5965 

"Mandate for the
:FI&~MII:r.I~~ 
BECOME AN INTEGRAL PART OF 
ND A7BLE71CS!!! 
New Congress" 
Wednesday, February 2 2 
Join the Student Manager's Organization!!! 
8p.m
RECEIVE FREE BOOKS, FREE BASKETBALL TICKETS, 
ANDBEONTHESIDE~SOFHOME 

Stepan Center 
ND FOOTBALL GAMES 

COME TO AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING 
Tickets are now on sale at the 
WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 22 AT 8:00P.M. 

LaFortune Box Office. 
Students $3 General Public $S 
Any Questions? Call the Manager's Sponsored by the Office of Student Activities, SUB and Student Government 
IN THE LOFTUS FOOTBALL AUDITORIUM 
Office at 631-6482 



Two teams associated with the number 1. 
SUBWAY's A.1. Steak &Cheese 
BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND!
f) For alimited time only 
-
Wednesday, February 22, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIRRORLAND 
HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 


Many felt that the company's new dress code was too stringent. 
· ''/l:ii!fi'tP 
• OF INTEREST 

An "Effective Resume Writing" workshop will be given tonight from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune. It is sponsored by Career and Placement Services. 
The University College Dublin Program will hold an informational meeting led by Professor Martin Butler, director of the Bachelor of Commerce Program, today at 4:30p.m. in 120 Hayes-Healy. 
CALVIN AND HOBRES BILL WATTERSON LIKE. 1-io!v'I'C:.WOR\:.. 
l 001'1.'1 Wl\t-li 'TO 60 til~ '31<1\\N ~LWt>-~S RU£C\S 1-\0!v'lt.WORK tvi~Kt.S 
Ill£. 1-\1\1>1''1. 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
~--------------------~0~----------------------~ ~ I t\IRED A TE~P TO 
ANOTI-\ER JDURNA.LlS/"\

~
WE'VE. BEEN 1-\AVING A. 
~ 
1"\AJ"OR ENTERS THE.

PI\OBLE.M WITf\ BLACK-OUTS ~ WI\LK AROUND AND • 
WOR¥-tORCE.

~E OFFICE LIGHTS ARE. FLAP 1-\IS ARMS SO 
~ 
:;;
CONTROLLED BY f'I\OTION n\E. LIGIHS WON'T 
IT 5EEM5 LIKE A. OE.TEc.TORS GO OfF 
"' ~ 
WASTE.. MAY& 1-\E 
COULD FA~ US 
) 

"' 
~--------------~~~~~~~~----~~~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Mil. training site &11959 Day­Hudson film 
35 Strip of 

1 Event for Cinderella 
equipment 83 Double curve 
37 Southern Filipino (depart) 

5 Rewind function 64Bidone­
10 Grow tiresome 38 Practical joker's 85 Ashtabula
14 Lily plant items abuts it 
15Ciaw 42 Actress Albright 88 Prohibits11 Gobi Desert site 43 Triangular item 87 Ferment17 Cape Canaveral 44 Co., in Caen 
sights 881860's 45 Absorb Southerners
19 Outbuilding 48 Very hot day 
20 Noon 21 Hallowed 
50 Punishes in an DOWN old way 

23 Women's 1 Salve fashion 52 Folk dance 2 Kyrgyzstan's magazine 53 Earthly 
-Mountains 25lnnuendo 
58 Single shot, 

3 Noisy 28 Nautical pulley perhaps 
4 Bank, 30 Hard, glossy 80 One of the 
sometimes finish Beach Boys 
5 Citrus colorant 6 Seance sound 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 "Welladay" 8 Fizzy drinks 9 Preserve fodder 

··MENU 
Notre Dame 
NORTH 
Beef Tamales Sugar Snap Peas Italian Chicken 
:/fL. 
. ::.~·:;:.:.: 
S~~tMary's 
,;1" Veal Marsala LondonBroU 


46 Egypt, formerly: 55 Lamb's name Abbr. 57 Rhine feeder 47 Settle up 58 Having too-easy beforehand answers 
59-out (supplements) 49 Film V.I.P. 
51 Derogatory 
80 Smash setup 53 Palatine garb 
62Kelly's"­54 Level Girls" 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
SOUTH 
Baked Chicken and Herbs Macaroni and Cheese Broccoli Spears 
Hungarian Noodle Bake 
Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 
q::_.,:;~~ 10 Deli offering 28 Sicily, to Sicilians

11 Connors rival ~~-=+-;...,.. -.!-.:....j..:~B8:::-I 12 More than 29 Cuts into cubes misled 31 Sponge 
13 Young man 32 Banks of Chicago
18 Summon for service 33 Misfit 
22 Sister 36 Deep ravine 
24 Bearing corn 39 Squirrels' hangouts
,.._:::;+,:;t:::4==:-F.-f~=:-l 26 Chickens and ducks 40 Protruded 27 Cause for a 41 Farm blessing implement 


.. 
They never saw it coming. • • 
and now it's too late. 
PLEASE 
.. 

don't drive with a drunk! 
Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
... 

SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, February 22, 1995 
B 
engal Bouts trainer Terry Johnson looked up at Pat Keaney during his sparring ses­sion Tuesday and said the phrase the senior from Virginia has heard a thou­sand times, "The jab, throw the jab." 
The six-foot-five Keaney, standing in another hemisphere compared to the smallish Johnson, nodded his head and again faced his partner. The jab, he thought. Always the jab. 
Forgive Keaney's frustration with his role in the Bengal Bouts which start Sunday. A former walk-on with the Irish basketball team, Keaney is new to the sport of boxing and still understanding how a stilt wins in a sport of mallets. 
"Sometimes I wish I was fighting guys my own size, or that I could throw big punches," he said, "but I understand that if I'm going to have a chance to win it's going to be through the jab." 
His understanding slips sometimes. He throws the big punch, lets his opponent get inside, and take a shot at his thin frame. Then Keaney hits his head and remembers, The jab, Pat. The jab. It was a lesson he learned the first time he stepped in the ring to spar his roommate, Mike Mulderrig, six weeks ago. 
"I took a shot to the face and said to myself, 'Do I really want to do this?'" he said. "All I could think was that I liked basketball better." 
But boxing has grown on Keaney and he is growing into a contender because of, well, his jab. 
"If can keep guys off of me and stop the little guys from getting inside and pounding on my body then I think I have a chance," Keaney said. "There are some good boxers I'm going to have to face, guys that are stronger than me, but if I use my jab..." 
The possibility of Keaney winning by decision is far greater than the possibility of him knocking 
The Observer/Kyle Kusek Charlie Stafford leads Grace versus Off-Campus in the mens' final 
Crime, Lightning brace for battle 
By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
Will Crime triumph over Amazing Grace? Tomorrow will tell in the men's basketball lnterhall Championship Game between Off­Campus' Crime and Grace at 9 p.m. on the JACC's main court. 
Although Off-Campus is trying to repeat last year's Interhall title, none of their players were part of 1994's championship club. However, both Joe Bergan and Chris Monahan were on the Crime's championship football team this year. Just like in football, Off-Campus is hoping to play some tough defense to win. 
"We have to play some intense defense," Bergan said. "We have to be boxing out as much as we can. We've had a size advantage 
. over everyone else we played." That won't be the case against a big Grace 
see MEN I page 14 

Walsh looks to avenge loss to PE 
By SHANNON O'DONNELL SportsWriter 
Don't always rely on the past to predict the future. 
That is the mentality of the Walsh women's interhall basketball team as they head into the finals tonight against the Pyros of Pasquerilla East. Walsh defeated Breen-Phillips 34-32 Monday night to advance to the finals, and they are not going to let their fall to PE in the regular season dictate the outcome of tonight's chal­lenge. 
"PE beat us once during the regular season. They had a couple of players down low who killed us on the boards. We need to box out and keep them off the boards," Walsh coach Pat Carlevato said. "We need to use our quickness because I think we are quicker then they are." 
The women of PE defeated Lyons 43-25 
see WOMEN I page 14 

of note...
BIG EAST BATTLES 
Conference leaders UConn and Syracuse both .. prevailed last night in the rough and tumble 
Tickets for the 65th annual Big East. 
Bengal Bouts are on sale for $8 

EAST
CONFERENCE
See pages 11-12 
... 





