
Tuesday, September 5, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 12 TI-lE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S . ­
Comparison ofstate to private schools is weakness in survey, Brown states· 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associate News Editor 
University officials were not upset by the fact that Notre Dame was not among Money magazine's top 100 college values, saying that such sur­veys, while having some value, are nevertheless arbitrary. 
"Obviously we would like to be seen as a good educational value," Dennis Brown, assistant director of public relations and information, said. "But our top priority is to provide a top rate education." 
Money's poll, released last Wednesday, rated 1,049 schools nationwide on 16 educational cate­gories and compared the results to each school's tuition and fees to de­termine the overall value of each institution. 
Notre Dame did not place in the top 100, but in a separate listing the University w_as named a best buy among the-93 schools that charge more than $17.750 in tuition and fees. In that poll, Notre Dame ranked 18th. 

Brown also dted a second, inde­pendent statistic as a measure of Notre Dame's value: among the 35 institutions with whom the University considers itself to be on the same academic level, Notre ·Dame's tuition ranks 33rd. 
"Among our peers, we are a good value," Brown said, "but if you throw all different kinds of schools [such as state and private schools] into the same mix, then you have a very odd comparison." 
Money magazine's article did just that in ranking the 1,049 schools. Of the top ten values, seven are public institutions. · 
"All of these surveys that various publications do can be of some value in one way or another," Brown said, "but it is important to remember that they often compare apples to oranges. [Every school] has a differ­ent mission, with various strengths and weaknesses." 
One of the categories that Money focused on in making its comparisons was each school's ability to meet the demonstrated need of their students. Presently, Notre Dame meets 73% of all students' need, according to Money. 
University officials have the long­term goal of meeting 100% of all demonstrated need, according to Joe Russo, director of financial aid. 
"The University recognizes, as its most significant· need, that which relates to improving the school's resources in order to meet the full demonstrated need of its students," Russo said. 
Resources have doubled since 
see MONEY I page 4 

' 1. Har,varf( J.,.·,·,,r.&nlJty,·;(MJ!l-.~l;;:;; 
2. Vl'tle Urtiveralty 
a. Johns.li(lpkil)s lc\'(.\f't!itJdtv 
4. Dartmouth College 

5. Clareroi)nfMct<enna College( Calif.) 
6. Harvey· Mudd College (Calif.) · 
7. Columbla.Unlveralty (N.Y.) 
8. Pomona Collegtt (Calif.) 
9. 
Swarthmore College (Pa.) 

10. 
Amherst College (Mass.) 

11. 
Williams College (Mass.) 

12. 
Princeton U_niverslty (N.J.) ·13. Washington University (Mo.) 14+ Stanford University (Calif.) 


15. 
Emory University (Ga.) 

16. 
Davidson College (N.C.) 

17. 
Haverford College (Pa.) 

18. 
University of Notre Dame (Ind.) 



New sculptures decorate DeBartolo Quad 
By DAVE PREISSLER 
News Writer 
Many students walking from South Quad to DeBartolo Hall have often stopped to wonder what in the world the red and blue thing could possibly be. The arrow that turns in the wind. hence the name "Turns About" by artist John Mishler, boggles the minds of the ob­servers. . 
Could it symbolize the irony that the University of Notre Dame du Lac thinks that it knows the right direction to the truth, yet the direction is not definite? Or, maybe it is just an arrow atop a piece of metal. 
llowever. the University's art department does know where it is headed. Beginning in August 1995 and lasting until July 1997, the University of Notre Dame Public Sculpture Project will exhibit these new sculptures and more around Debartolo Quad. 
The Department of Art, Art llistory & Design, The Snite Museum of Art, and the Cam­pus Sculpture Committee have organized this exhibition in or­der to provide the students University's intentions with the new campus art and the fund­ing of the project, Professor Collins hopes that "it does not 

see ART/ page 4 
and faculty with "an opportu­nity to interact with contempo­rary art," according to Austin Collins, Associate Professor of Art. He said that "the project 


WRC targets teen anorexia, bulimia 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 
Iligh-powered institutions like Notre Dame have a ten­dency to breed overachievers who thrive· in the stressful envi­ronment. While this may encourage excellent academics and produce successful stu­dents, at the same time, it gen­erates a wealth of difficulties among the student body, espe­cially the affliction of eating disorders. 
The Women's Resource Cen­ter, located in the Student Government Office on the third floor of LaFortune, recognizes the prevalence of eating disor­ders in teens and twenty-some­things and has dedicated part of their information and resources to combating anorex­ia and bulimia. ­
According to Emily Anderson, of the WRC, students may develop the beginnings of eat­ing disorders in their earlier years of junior high and high school, where information is not readily available about how to help someone suffering from an eating disorder. With this in mind, the Center plans to begin a program of presentations to local high school students about how to help a friend with an eating disorder. 
The program will bring about ten Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students into the schools to give informational presentations, show videos and do role-playing. The WRC will use a local Indiana grant to finance their program and give something back to the commu­nity. 
Last year, two graduate stu­dents initiated the grant by making a proposal to the Fed­eral Corporation for National Service Under the Learn and Serve America: Higher Educa­tion Program. The grant is given to college students with the stipulation that they use the $761 in a way that involves serving their community. 
"In high school. health class-
see WRC/ page 4 
NDCIBD challenges 
•


economics 
By BILL CONNOLLY News Writer 

In 1989, Father Hesburgh gave a speech on campus call­ing for a greater emphasis on globalism at Notre Dame. 
Be hoped that the student body might view their lives on an international basis, recog­nizing the global effects of their actions. 
A group of students interest­ed in the business world lis­tened to Fr. Hesburgh deliver this speech. With his directive for the future in mind, those students decided to form the Council on International Busi­ness Development (CIBD) to help their fellow students un­derstand worldwide economics and the ethics involved with their practice. 
Six years later, the Council is the largest student activity group on campus, with over 150 members in its ranks. 
A program central to the Council's growth has been its Summer Internship Program. The Program's purpose is both practical and philosophical. It plans to give students the skills and experience to survive in the business world while teaching them to maintain ethics in a cutthroat business environment. 
This past summer, the Council sent 45 interns to 15 countries to intern with firms such as Citibank, Heinz, and Waterford Crystal. Most stu­dents traveled to countries like England, Ireland, and Ger­many in order to serve as in­terns, while others taught En­glish and Economics in coun­tries like the Czech Republic and Honduras. 
The Council also hosted sev­eral Eastern European stu­dents at Notre Dame for a course on free enterprise coor­
see NDCIBD/ page 4 
will become an important part of the intellectual life of Notre Dame." 
Although some students have questioned the 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 5, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
From one 


legend to 

another 

One of my favorite books to flip through while I was growing up was an anthology of baseball's fifty greatest moments. Included in this collection were sto­ries of Babe Ruth's 


714th home run, Joe  Brad.Prendergast  
DiMaggio's 56-game hit- Associate News Editor  
ting streak, and Don  

Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 World Series. 

But the most impressive story was that of the 2,130 consecutive games-played streak set by Lou Gehrig of my beloved New York Yankees. It's a record that, until today, has never been equalled. 
When Baltimore's Cal Ripken takes the field at 7:05p.m. tonight, he will have accomplished what was once thought to be impossible. Just as he's done for the last 2,129 games, he'll take his position at short­stop, even the ground around him with the spikes of his cleats, punch his mitt a couple of times, and ready himself for the first ground ball to come his way. 
I've never had the chance to see Ripken play in person, but I remember a game shown on national television one summer Saturday afternoon in the late 1980s. With a runner on first, Ripken sprinted after a ground ball hit deep in the gap between sec­ond and third. Just as the ball was about to reach the outfield grass, he dove at the last possible second, smothered the ball with his glove, scrambled to his knees, and fired a bullet to second to begin the double play. 
When the play was completed and the crowd roared its approval, Ripken simply got up, brushed the dirt ofT his uniform, and raised two fmgers above his head, letting his fellow infielders know the number of outs in the inning. No high fives, no fist-pumping, and more importantly, no celebration need­ed. 
That Ripkep. has demonstrated such an unassuming attitude throughout the length of the streak makes the achievement so special. In an era when professional athletes and owners bicker about the difference between $6 million and $7 million, Ripken has simply done his job -and done it well -since 1982. A perennial all-star and Golden Glove winner, Ripken represents the epitome of what a baseball player should be. 
Gehrig had the same aura about him. As the first baseman for the New York Yankees during their glory years of the 1920s and 1930s, Gehrig hit 493 home runs, drove in 1,991 RBis, and had a .340 batting average during the seventeen-year career in which his fame was constantly eclipsed by the epic exploits of Babe Ruth. Yet he never resented the fact that Ruth garnered all the attention. 
Gehrig's selflessness, as much as his achievements on the field, was what made him my favorite Yankee. 
Today, September 5, 1995, Gehrig and Ripken are tied. Can anything be more per­fect? A part of me wants Ripken to end the streak after tonight's game so that Gehrig's name can remain at the top of the list, an eternal monument to his dedication. But then I realize that tomorrow, after Ripken has broken the record, Gehrig will still be remembered. And he'll be remembered that day and every day thereafter, because the great ones, like he and Ripken, are never for­gotten. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Amy Schmidt Tom Snider Deborah Schultz Meaghan Smith Production Sports Tara Grieshop Dave Treacy Jackie Moser Megan McGrath Accent Graphics Ashleigh Thompson Brian Blank Melinda Cragan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Hurricane Luis closes in on the Caribbean Islands 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico He said the island "will likely see 
With winds gusting up to 160 mph, Hurricane Luis more damage" than was caused by Hurricane Luis roared Monday toward Hugo, the most devastating hurricane the Caribbean, where nervous is­to hit the Caribbean in 50 years. landers boarded up buildings and To the east, in Antigua, people frightened tourists jammed airports moved to schools and churches where trying to leave. workers battened down the buildings 
The 700-mile-wide storm, with sus­with plywood. tained winds of 140 mph, could be the National radio warned residents most devastating storm in the that the storm was larger than their Caribbean in a half-century, even 108-square-mile island. worse than Hurricane Hugo in 1989. Antigua also prepared for a possible 
At 5 p.m. EDT, the storm's center influx of evacuees from Montserrat, was about 125 miles east of where a volcano has been threatening Guadeloupe and Antigua. Hurricane to erupt. Police and British Royal watches were posted from Dominica to Marines flown from England prepared Puerto Rico. two abandoned factories to house 
"We are planning as if the storm is almost 2,000 people. Workers used going to directly strike the island," heavy machinery to dig sewage ditch­Puerto Rico's Gov. Pedro Rossello said es and built 200 wooden toilets. in a radio broadcast. "We want to min­In the U.S. Virgin Islands, the imize the possibility of loss of life." National Guard was called into service 
The National Weather Service said and Gov. Roy L. Schneider said he was Luis's advance had slowed down asking the federal government for overnight from 14 mph to 12 mph and emergency help even before the hurri­tropical storm force winds of about 40 cane hit. mph would probably reach the Virgin "If it misses us, they can tear up the Islands midday Tuesday and Puerto papers," he said in a radio broadcast. Rico by Tuesday evening. Tourists thronged the airport at 
"I've been in hurricanes, but I've Charlotte Amalie, the capital, but no never been in anything this strong extra flights were scheduled. before. It's a very serious situation," "The lines here are winding out of said meteorologist Scott Stripling from the airport," said Donna Greaux of the weather service's San Juan office. American Eagle Airlines. 

AP/Carl Fox 
Hillary Clinton strikes back at critics Breyer's to dose after 129 years 
BEIJING PHILADELPHIA 
Hillary Rodham Clinton began a con­
As a child, Frank Avent never knew what those little troversial visit to China on Tuesday to black specks in his vanilla ice cream were. He didn't attend an international women's con­know they were real vanilla: They just meant Mom had ference that she said would seek to bought the good stuff, Breyers, not a store brand. For 25 improve the status of women, children years, Avent has worked on the shipping dock at the and families. "It is important that Breyers ice cream factory. "This has always seemed like America play a leadership role at this the perfect job for me," said Avent, now 53. "It has al­conference," the first lady said en route ways been my favorite dessert. Until now.' Last month, to Beijing. "Issues of concern to women Good Humor-Breyers told Avent and about 240 cowork­are crucial not only to the economic and social progress ers that the plant will be phased out by the end of of our nation, but of every other nation." Her plane October and production moved elsewhere. America's top­arrived in the Chinese capital about 12:40 a.m. She came selling ice cream will no longer be produced in the city down the steps with Madeleine Albright, U.S. am­where it was created. It's the second bitter departure of bassador to the United Nations, and got into a car with­a Philadelphia sweet in two years. Whitman's Chocolates out making any public statement. Conservatives have closed in 1993 after 151 years and left 700 out of work. portrayed the conference as a radical, anti-family event: Russell Stover still makes Whitman's products, but in the that will endorse liberal stands on issues such as abor­Midwest. "Big business once again shows its concern for tion. Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., seeking the bottom line and its lack of concern for working men the GOP presidential nomination, has deemed it "mis­and women," said Edward Henderson, the head of guided" and a "genuine waste of the taxpayers' money." Teamsters Local 463. 
U.S. taxpayers give Olympics millions Thousands rally in support of strike 
DETROIT ATLANTA Striking newspaper workers staged a massive Labor Even if you haven't personally spent a dime yet for a Day rally with thousands of other union members Mon­ticket, T -shirt or souvenir trinket, you're helping Atlanta day on the heels of their success in delaying Sunday edi­pay for the 1996 Olympic Games -through your federal tions of The Detroit News and Free Press. James P. tax dollars. Though the Games themselves are privately Hoffa, who earlier had officially announced his candidacy funded from sources including television rights, corpo­for Teamsters president, urged members of the six strik­rate sponsorships and ticket sales, the federal govern­ing unions to remain strong. "This is true labor here," ment is pitching in tens of millions of dollars worth of Hoffa said of the rally, which followed the city's Labor services that are crucial to their success. The biggest Day parade. "This is where the fight's at -the newspa­expenditures: -$35 million for security, carried out pers.'' Strikers gathered Saturday at the newspapers' mainly by the military. -$28 million for buses and Sterling Heights printing plant and prevented trucks other transportation assistance. Federal agencies also from leaving with Sunday morning editions until 8:30 will be involved in trash pickup, recycling, testing energy a.m. Sunday, nearly 12 hours late. The strike began July technology, bicycle trail construction and environmental 13-when six unions representing about 2,500 workers protection, among other areas. walked ofT their jobs, mostly over wages and work rules. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
Tuesday, Sept. 5 Accu-Weather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The Accu-Weather<~~> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 5. 
Atlanta  85  62  Dallas  100  76  New Orleans 91  70  
Baltimore  86  58  Denver  92  63  New York  79  63  
Boston  75  58  Los Angeles 92  68  Philadelphia 87  68  
Chicago  88  63  Miami  90  79  Phoenix  106  83  
Columbus  87  60  Minneapolis  81  63  St. Louis  88  69  


............................ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Ptf1SSUIS ~ ~ r'\ 
H L B~[TI] 0!Z3§v ~~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V~otAssociateraPress 

Tuesday, September 5, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Aloia family cheers on ND Cuban parliament 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Writer 
The Aloia Family Singers, af­fectionately dubbed "the Von Trapps of Notre Dame" by Coach Lou Holtz, have released their first album. 
Entitled "Cheerin' For The Irish", the recording is a compi­lation of twenty songs herald­ing Notre Dame and its football tradition. Penned by the Aloias, the lyrics are put to such tradi­tional tunes as "Home on the flange" and "Yankee Doodle Dandy." 
The album's release was prompted by a multitude of re-
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

quests by Irish fans for copies team later that day. of their spirited songs; among "We were so thrilled to final­the favorites found on ly meet Lou Holtz," says Mary­"Cheerin' For The Irish" are Cecilia, the oldest of the seven, "An Irish Ballad", a lesson in adding, "We almost fell over Notre Dame history from when he asked us to perform Rockne to the 1977 USC game, for the team." and "Lou's Favorite Things". Their appearance for Holtz 
"If you love Notre Dame, was followed shortly by guest you'll love these songs," asserts spots at Quarterback proud father Greg Aloia. Luncheons and numerous pep 
Notre Dame students have rallies, where Irish fans gath­referred to the singers as ered in crowds nearing 13,000. "Lou's Kids" since their first Wrote Holtz in a letter to the performance for Coach Holtz in family, "I can honestly say that 1993; for fun, they sang Holtz I've never seem more devoted a song about beating USC. De­Notre Dame fans in my entire lighted with the Aloias, Holtz life than all of you." invited them to sing for the As requests for the album 
mounted, the family decided to travel to a nearby studio, where "Cheerin' For The Irish" was compiled and recorded. Currently, six of the seven chil­dren perform together, ranging in age from Mary-Cecilia, 20, to Benedict-Joseph, 6; the seventh Aloia, Filumena-Marie, is a two year old who is soon to join her siblings on stage. 
For the third consecutive year, the Aloia Family Singers, 
hosted by the Alumni Associa­

MEXICO CITY, MEXICO 
tion, can be heard on campus, singing at the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center on Satur­
INFORMATION MEETING 

day preceding each home
With 

game. A percentage of the Professor Angela Borelli 
profits from "Cheerin' For The Irish" will be donated to the Alumni Association Scholarship Fund. Priced at $9.95, the cas­
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 5, 1995 
sette can be purchased at the 
202 DEBARTOLO 

Alumni Association counter in the JACC prior to all home games; additional copies may be obtained by contacting the 
4:30 P.M. 

Returning students will be on hand to 
Aloias at: Rt. 2, Box 31, 
answer questions 
Ellsworth, IL 61737. 


II 
i 




Catch the Action! 
I 
-· 
-

II 
I 
Notre Dame vs. Purdue Saturday, September 9th 

MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN
Round trip bus transportation 
Remember trying to choose the right college?... 
VJ.S.A.

to Ross-Ade Stadium 
Volunteers In Support of Admission 
invites you to share your Saint Mary's experience
II 
Buses leave at 11:00 AM frotn Stepan Center Tickets: $15 at the LaFortune Info. Desk 
I 

Game tickets available at the LaFortune Info. Desk starting Aug. 23 with student I.D. 
Sponsored by Student Activities 





debates foreign rights 
ByJOHNRICE 
Associated Press 
HAVANA 
Its nation saddled with a stagnant economy, Cuba's par­liament on Monday took up a 

. soul-searching issue -how to satisfy wary foreign capitalists without sacrificing communist control. Fidel Castro, at a session closed to foreign reporters, spoke in favor of letting Cuban exiles invest in the country, ac­cording to state radio. The National Assembly opened debate on a proposed law granting investors greater rights, and passage was ex­pected. Most details had been completed in committee before the general session at the Palace of Conventions. 
The government says some 212 companies have already signed deals to invest more than $2 billion in Cuba in recent years. 
Japanese cars, British gaso­line stations and Spanish hotels have become common across Cuba. But the U.S. economic embargo of the island and in­vestor wariness have kept growth slow. 
The proposed law is expected to allow investors full owner­ship of some companies. 
Previously, most had been limited to a 50-50 partnership with the Cuban government. 
Osvaldo Martinez, who intro­du~ed the measure as chair­man of the economic commit­tee, denied capitalist economics 
were the inspiration. 
"This is an opening to defend and develop socialism," he said at the start of the session, at­tended by Castro and expected to last at least two days. 
There also has been debate about allowing companies to own property and to hire their own workers. Until now, the government has maintained ownership of land and build­ings and has controlled em­ployment. 
Cuba also plans to try to cut red tape and eliminate vague­ness that has made some for­eign business people worry about investing in a nation where the government finds capitalism distasteful. 
"There's a financial problem when the government doesn't clearly define the rules of the game," Smith College econo­mist Andrew Zimbalist, a Cuba specialist, satd in a recent interview. 
He said fear that the govern­ment will treat companies ac­cording to "political whim" has "made a lot of foreign investors wary about their involvement." 
"There's an inadequate defi­nition of property rights, an in­adequate definition of profit repatriation rules," he said. "A lot of these things are negoti­ated on an enterprise by enter­prise basis." 
The proposal would allow full foreign ownership of a com­pany but favor those with a government association. The new law would grant investors freedom to take net profits and capital out of Cuba and to buy residential, office or tourist properties -a novelty in this socialist state. 
Some charged, however, that the legislation would allow Cuban exiles to invest in the country while Cubans living here cannot. 
"They abandoned us in diffi­cult times," Deputy Agustin Lage said of the exiles. 
During a session closed to foreign reporters, Castro him­self spoke in favor of letting Cuban exiles invest, saying that to ban them would help the 
U.S. embargo of Cuba, accord­ing to state radio. 
Deputy Frank Hernandez suggested Cubans in Cuba should be allowed to invest ­something long anathema to the socialist state -charging that "citizens of the world have more rights than citizens here." 
But other deputies insisted strict government scrutiny of investments would prevent "enemies of Cuba" from being favored. 
Cuba permitted foreign in­vestment in 1982, but acceler­ated efforts to attract new for­eign funds after the collapse of the Soviet Bloc in 1989 de­stroyed its traditional economic ties. 
Much of the investment so far has gone into tourism, mining, petroleum and telecommunica­tions. 
Mexican, Spanish and Canadian companies have been among the main investors. 

-~­

SAINT 
by becoming an:  
• Overnight Hostess ·High School liaison ·Tour Guide •Telecounselor  
I !i,,  For infonnation visit our table at Activities Night Angela Athletic Facility Wednesday, September 6, 1995 8 -lOp.m. or contact Bobbi Wiseman x4S 8 7  

__;ll.=iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~
~====~-~======~~====== 
page 4 
WRC 
continued from page 1 
es discuss everything from sex­ual assault to substance abuse to sexually transmitted dis­eases. Eating disorders, on the other hand, aren't emphasized as much. We hope to raise awareness of the problem and teach friends how to help friends," .said Anderson. 
Although the Center does not officially open until September tenth, the WRC volunteers have begun working on their pro­gram, with the aid of Rita Donaley, from Notre Dame Counseling. Donaley has a program geared towards col­lege students that the WRC will modify to target the younger ages. By going into health classes, the WRC feels it will have a large audience and pos­itive feedback. "Since every high school student has to take health, we'll be able to hit everyone," stated Anderson. 
The volunteers will attend three two hour sessions, be­ginning in September, to train them about eating disorders and to verse them in present­ing information. Once they have finished their training, they will head out into the community, specifically Adams High School and tentatively St. Joseph's and Penn. 
The Center would like to start out small, at a few schools, and receive their com­ments about the program. If the feedback is positive, it will be beneficial for them to involve more schools in the area. 
"Hopefully, if we have a lot of undergraduate volunteers, they can continue to expand the project in the future," said Anderson. 
If it is a success in the high schools, the WRC will try to branch out into the Notre Dame community by present­ing their program to freshmen in their dorms. "As far as I know, there are no organized, consistent eating disorder presentations for freshmen. We'd like to change that," said Anderson. 

DORMITORY REFRIGERATORS starting atRENTAL SIZES: 2.5 CUBIC FEET 3.5 CUBIC FEET $454.5 CUBIC FEET 6.5 CUBIC FEET for the school year PICK-UP AND DELIVERY AVAILABLE BURNS RENTAL, INC 332 W. MISHAWAKA AVE. (corner of Mishawaka Ave. and Liberty Dr.) 259-2833 259-2833  
BAPTIST STUDENT UN.Ir·o/N;~ ! ; J ; l -~ ~,.,. i . j ~­,j MEETING AT CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 7:00P.M. MONDAYS FOR INFORMATION CONTACT LEANN AT 634-1507 OR REBECCA AT 277-1363 STOP BY AND SEE US ON­ACTIVITIES NIGHT·  

The Observer • NEWS 
Money 
continued from page 1 
1990, according to Russo, who said that the University receives funds through a num­ber of different areas: 
• 
The University has desig­nated all of its additional income generated by the NBC­Notre Dame Football contract to be directed for scholarships for all students at Notre Dame. 

• 
Bowl payments from the football team's appearances in January 1 bowl games, typical­ly at $2 million or more annu­ally, have all been directed to support scholarships. 


The above two resources have generated a total of over $30 million for the University, Russo said. 
• 
Licensing revenue also con­tributes to the University's funds. 

"Anytime a merchandiser sells something that has a ref­erence to Notre Dame, the Uni­versity receives a royalty," Russo said. 

• 
The new Notre Dame VISA card has a lot of potential, ac­cording to Russo. 


"It would appear that the new card will be able to gener­ate several hundred thousand dollars each year," he said. 
-----~· -~-------------------.-, 
Tuesday, September 5, 1995 
"All of that income will be directed to support scholar­ships." 
• $2 million or more each year is donated to the Univer­
sity through unrestricted giv­ing. 
One reason that Notre Dame does not have as high of a per­centage of meeting demon­strated need as the Ivy League schools-which meet 100% of demonstrated need -is that Notre Dame does not use tuition discounts to meet the need of its students, Russo said. 
The typical private school disco-unts its tuition a much as 21% for certain students. Notre Dame's trustees have considered implementing such a policy on various occasions, but the University has to rely on tuition fees more than other schools in order to maintain its strong financial base, Russo said. 


last chance to prepare for 
NDCIBD 
continued from page 1 
dinated through the College of Business Administration. 
Most students intern for eight to ten weeks, but Tim Maxwell, Vice-President of Finance for the Council, was allowed to intern for six weeks with Market Access International, a political con­sultation firm in London. 
Maxwell said that the experience will look great on his resume, but also sees its as a valuable situation in other ways. 
"I did receive a practical business experience," Maxwell said, "but I also discovered a great deal about other cul­tures. It was very exciting." 
Art 
continued from page 1 
create a controversy around campus, but a dialogue." 
Most of the funding came through Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholars Series Grant along with other grants and art funds. Five of the 28 artists are Notre Dame alumni and faculty, with the others associ­

the October test 1-800-KAP-TEST 
Last class begins on: get a higher score Wed., September 6 


KAPLAN 
ated with a diverse number of other colleges and universities. Most of the sculptures have been made especially for the exhibition, but some already existed. 
The Campus Sculpture Committee has tried to strategi­cally place these contemporary works so that they blend with the buildings and interact with the landscape creating a new character for DeBartolo Quad. 


Ifyou're into computer sciences, data processing, accounting, auditing, math or law... 

get in touch with State Farm. 
Our career opportunities are many and varied for qualified grads. If you're selected, you'll enjoy the advantages of working with a respected leader in the insurance industry. Expert training. State­of-the-art equipment. Excellent pay and benefits. Plenty of room to grow. And you'll enjoy Bloomington, Illinois, too. It's a thriving community with the social, cultural and recreational activities afforded by two universities. 
Contact your Placement Director, or write Mary Holman, Assistant Director Home Office Personnel Relations, One State Farm Plaza, Bloomington, lllinois 61710. 
State Farm Insurance Companies • Home Offices: Bloomington, Illinois ·An Equal Opportunity Employer 
Tuesday, September 5, 1995 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Bomb hits Kashmir, kills ten 
By QAISER MIRZA Associated Press 

SRINAGAR, India 
Separatist rebels set off an explosion Monday near banks where Indian soldiers were col­lecting payrolls, killing at least 10 people and injuring dozens more, a government spokesman said. 
Witnesses said the blast killed at least 15 people, including a pregnant woman and a 6-year­old girl. Press Trust of India 
We believe we have the finest tasting drinking water. 
$8 00a month rental on all coolers.• 


news agency said 25 others were injured, many critically. 
The Hizbul Mujahedeen, the largest and best-armed of sev­eral Muslim groups fighting for the independence of Kashmir in northern India, claimed re­sponsibility for the blast in a ~elephone call to The Associated Press. 
The explosion occurred be­tween two banks as officers col­lected bags of money to pay monthly salaries at their bases. 
AP/Carl Fox 

Security is often tightened around the banks on pay day. 
Seven soldiers or paramili­tary fighters were among the dead, said government spokesman Kulbhushan Jandiyal. 
Bosnian CODliDander rejects UN deiDands 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 

SARAJEVO 
Defying a NATO threat of airstrikes even as Bosnian Serb leaders appeared ready to give in, the Serb commander re­jected an ultimatum Monday to pull his heavy weapons out of range of Sarajevo. 
Two booms were heard in the Serb stronghold of Pale, southeast of Sarajevo, less than 30 minutes after a NATO dead­line to move the weapons passed. Explosions were heard near the Serb-held town of Vogosca. 
"All I can tell you is they 
Friday, September 8 
FREE DELIVERY TO YOUR DORM OR OFFICE 
Stepan Courts 

Co-Ree 6 on 6*
2218 S. Main 

*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times

South Bend Music & Refreshments 
II 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadline is Thursday, September 7 at 6:00 PM 
Call for Details 

CALL 189·6371 or 

Sponsored By: 
of 
Education


1·800-634·6517 
• 





Interested in working at 
were not the airstrikes" in 
Vogosca, said U.N. spokesman 
Chris Gunness. He said U.N. 
commanders still were decid­
ing whether to order NATO 
attacks. 
In a letter to U.N. comman­
der Lt. Gen. Bernard Janvier, 
Gen. Ratko Mladic said he 
couldn't order the 540 
weapons withdrawn without a 
popular referendum and 
approval by the Bosnian Serb 
parliament. 
The l('tter arrived at U.N. re­gional headquarters in Zagreb, Croatia, just 3 1/2 hours before an 11 p.m. (5 p.m. EDT) NATO deadline for the Serbs to start withdrawing the weapons -or face more air raids. 
Less than 30 minutes after the deadline, U.N. spokes­woman Maj. Myriam Sochacki, said, "We have seen some highly unusual movements which do appear to signify that the Serbs are preparing for a withdrawal." 
She said weapons were being assembled at Ilidza, Hadzici, Grbavica and Lukavica -all Sarajevo suburbs or neighbor­hoods held by the Serbs. 
It wasn't clear whether the Serbs were withdrawing the weapons, or moving them to areas with large civilian popu­lations to confound NATO planes trying to hit them. 
In Pale, the Bosnian Serb stronghold southeast of Sara­jevo, streets were deserted and NATO jets roared overhead as the ultimatum expired. About five minutes later, two loud booms were heard, and Serb anti-aircraft batteries nearby began firing. Sirens howled . 

er? 
Make sure you stop by our table tonight at the JACC between 

7:00 -9:00 to sign up and meet the editors! 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 5, 1995 
Clinton denounces cynical Washington 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 
MONTEREY, Calif. 
Cranking up his re-election campaign in vote-rich Califor­nia, President Clinton de­nounced Washington as a cyni­cal, short­sighted town "where talk­ing is more important than doing." 
Labor Day, a holiday of picnics and politics, Clinton found Clinton eager to show sympathy with Americans who are telling poll­sters in record numbers that they are disenchanted with their government. 

"You couldn't run a family, a business, a university, a church, a civic organization ­you couldn't run anything in this country the way people try to run politics in Washington," he told 20,000 people at a col­lege dedication. 
Without mentioning Gov. Pete Wilson by name, Clinton also staked a claim to two issues seized by the Republican presi­dential candidate: immigration and affirmative action. 
The remarks came on a 
sunny, blue-sky day on the cen­
tral coast, as Clinton dedicated 
a new California State 
University campus to showcase 
efforts to reclaim jobs lost to 
defense cuts, and attended a 
Labor Day picnic. 
The visit, his 19th to Califor­
nia as president, marks a new 
stage of the 1996 Clinton-Gore 
campaign. 
This is the logical place to get 
the campaign in gear, with 54 
electoral votes and huge supply 
of political cash at the ready. 
Most political observers be­
lieve Clinton must win Califor­
nia to remain in the White 
House. 
Putting off the day when ev­
erything he does is considered 
political, Clinton has kept his 
re-election machinations low 
key so far. But his efforts will 
become more and more obvi­
ous -starting with this trip. 
In a long, wandering speech 
that touched on dozens of top­
ics, Clinton said Washington is 
a town driven by news bites 
and conflict, "where talking is 
more important than doing" 
and where "you have to exag­
gerate every difference and 
make it 10 times bigger than it 
is. And you have to be willing 
to sacrifice every good in the 
moment for the next election." 
"No one could run anything 
that way," he said at the col­
lege campus. 
His 1992 campaign theme 
song, "Don't Stop," blared 
from the speaker system after 
the speech. Asked why Clinton 
stopped short of challenging 
Wilson by name, press secre­
tary Mike McCurry quipped, 
"It's still 1995." 
Later, at the Alameda County 
Labor Day picnic, Clinton 
promised to fight GOP budget 
cuts that hurt education and 
job training and reiterated his 
call for Congress to boost the 
minimum wage. 
"I want a high-wage, high­
growth, high-opportunity fu­
ture, not a hard-work, low­
wage, insecure future for the 
working families of the United 
States of America," the presi­
dent told a union crowd of 
about 12,000. 
He is expected to announce key campaign advisers in the next few weeks and has a lengthy campaign trip sched­uled for late September. Sev­eral fund-raisers are on tap for the next few months. 
Clinton won California by a wide 46 percent to 33 percent margin in 1992, but his prospects are doubtful 14 months away from the election. 
Though the state unemploy­ment rate is down from 9.4 percent in 1993, the figure rose from 7.6 percent to 7.9 percent this summer -against a na­tional average of 5. 7 percent. Incomes here failed to keep pace with inflation last year, while Americans elsewhere did significantly better. 
Wilson backers scoff at the president's California push. 
"Despite frequent visits by the president and his army of Cabinet secretaries. the admin­istration's policy decisions have done California much more harm than good over the past three years," spokesman Paul Kranhold said. 


Dole: English to be official 
By ANTHONY JEWELL Dole said insisting that all Associated Press citizens are fluent in English is an act of inclusion and would INDIANAPOLIS combat divisive forces in the 
Declaring that the govern­country. ment must "end its war on tra­Campaigning in GOP presi­ditional American values," dential rival Sen. Dick Lugar's Senate Majority Leader Bob home state, Dole: Dole told the · · American -Declared that "Western Legion con­vention 
Monday that 
English must be recognized as the coun-~ try's official language. 
Opening his fall presidential campaign, Dole promoted a constitutional amendment banning the dese­cration of the American flag and he protested proposed national history standards that he said belittle Western culture. 
Dole declared that the lan­guage, history and values that hold the country together "are under attack from our govern­ment and from intellectual elites who seem embarrassed by America." 

R E S E R V E OFFICERS' 
tradition and American great­ness must be taught in our schools. And the federal gov­ernment must end its war on traditional American values." 
-Assailed affirmative action, saying, "Instead of making things better, it has made things worse." 
September 5, 197i 




M1tt ~itlun 
huldlfl 
TRAINING C 0 R P S 

PREREOUISITE: ADRENALINE 
Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're self-confidence and decision-making skills. 
likely to see in many course requirements. Again, words other courses seldom use. But 
Then again, Army ROTC is unlike any 
they're the credits you need to succeed in 
other elective. It's hands-on excitement. life. ROTC is open to freshmen and sopho­
ROTC will challenge you mentally and mores without obligation and requires
physically through intense leadership about 4hours per week. Register this term 
training. Training that builds character, for Army ROTC. 
ARMYROTC 
THE SMARTEST COWGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 
• 





VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 5, 1995 
Lay people spread message, share holiness 
Dear Editor: 
I feel the need to respond to Charles Roth's editorial of Friday, Aug. 25 entitled "Opus Dei: Misunderstood Catholicism" because the edito­rial itself contains certain mis­understandings about Opus Dei. 
First, while the author is cor­rect in stating that Opus Dei is a 
'opus Dei as a per­
sonal prelature operates in each dio­cese with the approval of the local bishop and periodically reports to him about its activities.' 
personal prelature, he is incor­rect in his assumption of what a prelature entails. He states that "Opus Dei answers to the Pope alone. Most religious orders, like the Holy Cross, or the Benedictines are answerable to the local bishop." This is not true. 
Religious orders depend on the Pope and report to him through the Congregation for Religious, operating in each diocese with the permission of the local bishop. Opus Dei as a personal prelature operates in each diocese with the approval of the local bishop and periodi­cally reports to him about its activities. Opus Dei does depend on the Pope but it reports to him through the Congregation of Bishops. So a prelature is not an entity that is answerable only to the Pope. 
Personal prelatures possess a 
• 000NESBURY 
I HOP& YOU GUY5 fXJN7MINI/ aJfi?. {JRt)PP!/116 IN UKE 7HI~. I 
KNOIAI ttl& 5HOUW HAV& 
CAU/31? AH&AI?... 
""' 

9-1> 
Men and women can fully serve God through their secular occupations 
clearly secular character and are designed to carry out spe­cial pastoral works.· They care­fully respect the rights of the local ordinaries, with whom they maintain close relations. They have their own clergy and are open to membership of lay faithful, celibate or married, who dedicate their lives to the carrying out of special pastoral works by means of a contract or agreement. 
Second, the Pope does like Opus Dei, as the author stated. However, I don't see anything wrong with that. If Christ's vicar were to dislike part of His mystical body, this then would imply a problem. In addition to Papal approval, 69 Cardinals, 241 Archbishops, 987 Bishops, and 41 Superior Generals of religious congregations sanc­tioned Opus Dei as a means of sanctification for lay Catholics by writing to petition the Pope for the canonization of its founder. While many people like Opus Dei, the fact that many others choose not to should not be surprising when one stops to consider the num­bers who dislike the Church. 
Third, the author errs when describing Opus Dei (commonly known as the Work) as a reli­gious order for lay people. It must be remembered that the Work is secular in nature and is not an "order" at all. As the author points out, Opus Dei exists because of and for lay people. 
Confirmed by Vatican II, Opus Dei exists tQ spread the mes­sage that holiness is for all peo­ple, not just priests and reli­gious. Thus, men and women who are students, lawyers, doc­tors, mechanics and janitorial engineers can fully serve God 
'Men and women 
who are stu­dents, lawyers, doctors, mechanics and janitori­al engineers can fully serve God precisely as students, lairyers, doc­tors, mechanics and janitorial engineers. This is accomplished by fulfilling well one's ordinary duties, by 
sharing the call to holi­ness with others through friendship, and by doing one's work for God, thus turning work into prayer.' 
precisely as students, lawyers, doctors, mechanics and janitor­ial engineers. 
This is accomplished by ful­filling well one's ordinary duties, by sharing the call to holiness with others through friendship, and by doing one's 

UM... B.I?.? GU&r3S tuHO'SH!3R&.' JJ. ANI?H&l< FR/!3Nl? 
Z131<el I 
Y£AH, RJ6HT. t./1<£ THAT13V/t­/..ITTt6 BIM80AN!?H&l<!itEA?£­8A6 eoYFR!tNI?aouw I?AF?e 9-W1}1/:3/R.!W:$AJ<a/NI?ANY 
OfMIK£~ fi?JtNI?S1 

work for God, thus turning work into prayer. 
Opus Dei is not some kind of seminary as the author implies, nor is it primarily concerned with recruiting new members. Its members try to help others develop a spiritual life which may result in some individuals discovering a lay vocation to the Prelature. 
While the vocation of some men (and don't forget women!) is the dedication of one's life in apostolic celibacy, the vocation of others is to marriage. In either case, people do not join Opus Dei with the intention of joining the priesthood. It is tough to communicate the secu­lar nature of the Work to those of a decidedly clerical persua­sion who are not open to the new life flowing from Vatican 
II. 
Furthermore, it would be odd if not very clerical for members of the Work to introduce them­selves as belonging to Opus Dei. Because the Work is secular, one does not change one's state in life upon joining. You and I would never introduce our­selves as Democrats or Republicans, even to our closest friends, when saying hello. Yet if asked, we would respond truthfully, as do members of the Work when asked about their lay vocation. 
Finally, the author incorrectly assumed that the Work is inter­ested only in college students. Because Windmoor is located near Notre Dame, it is true that 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
page 7 
most of its apostolic activities are available for college stu­dents. Yet, this is not the case for centers I know of in Chicago and Milwaukee, for example. 
Perhaps the author's limited exposure to the apostolate with college students led him to believe that Opus Dei is "elit­ist." This belief is also far from the truth. To quote the present Prelate who was interviewed in the June issue of Inside the Vatican; "many stress that some Opus Dei members are wealthy and influential. 
There are many, many more unknown and poor. Opus Dei membership spans all strata of the Church and of society. In the Prelature we have poor, unemployed, well-off and sim­ple middle class workers. But all wish to live a Christian life of generosity, learn detachment 
'lAJhile the vocation 
V \' of some men (and don't forget women!) is the dedica­tion of one's life in apostolic celibacy, the vocation of others is to marriage.' 
from earthly goods, and achieve liberty in secular life. How else can we become saints in every­day life?" 
ROB SCHLOSSER Senior OffCampus 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Talk low, talk slow, and don't say too much." 
-John Wayne 


ACCENT 
ByTOMMORAN News Writer 

F
rom the very flrst glance, the newly opened Rock and Roll Hall of Fame is a unique place. The huge glass pyramid that makes up much of the structure serves as a spectacular contrast to the drab surroundings of the Cleveland waterfront. It is fitting that a building dedicated to that most rebellious of art forms should stand out so strongly from its environs. 
The contents of the museum are for the most part more conventional that the I. M. Pei-designed struc­ture. This being a building dedicated to rock and roll, however, it tends to be a conventional display of the artifacts of a medium that is by its very nature uncon­{complete with fake guillotine.) On another floor, . U2's"{admission pr.ice: £2). Other highlights of theventional. As such, the museum is tremendously inter­there's even an enormous chunk of Pink Floyd's museum include several outstanding short movies onesting despite some generically presented exhibits. 
famous Wall, shadowed by an enormous inflatable the history of rock. 
The rebellious nature of rock is accentuated by monster from that tour. The centerpiece of the building, the Hall of Fame "Don't Knock the Rock," one of the first exhibits one The basement of the museum also features more itself, is surprisingly understated, but very tasteful andsees upon entering. It consists of a set of TV screens conventional memorabilia from every era and sub­innovative. The room islocated at the very summit of showing examples of various 'establishment' reactions genre of rock and roll. There are sections devoted to the building, reachable only through a dimly lit spiral to the medium, ranging from the ranting of televange­some of the most famous names in the field, such as staircase. The Hall itself is also dark, with the onlylists, to examples of the Satanic messages supposedly Elvis Presley, the Beatles, Paul Simon, Bruce light coming from the wall-mounted, inset computerheard when records are played backwards. 
Springsteen, Bob Dylan, and many others. screens that display the pictures of the members. TheThe museum's exhibits quickly change from the The museum was careful not to neglect some of the screens each feature one to four different performers reaction to rock and roll to rock itself. The museum's less ubiquitous names in rock, however. In between or groups whose pictures alternate every five secondscollection of memorabilia is enormous, and of particu­was everything from a Jerry Garcia guitar to Run or so. Surrounding the screens are facsimiles of the lar interest is their collection of stage costumes and DMC's Adidas, gold chains, and sunglasses. Showing performers' .signatures, backlit by fl.ourescent light.
stage props from some of rock's more flamboyant acts. 
a desire to exhibit rock's present and future as well as The design of the Hall of Fame encourages a certainSome of most spectacular getups in rock and roll histo­its distant past, exhibits featured references to, and degree of awe, but by keeping any sort of criticalry are displayed on dozens of mannequins which, as memorabilia from, Nine Inch Nails, Courtney Love, L7, praise of the performers therein to a minimum, it stops evidenced by a mannequin of a naked David Bowie, Counting Crows, and a host of other bands that have-short of becoming a stuffy shrine. 
are anatomically correct. 

come to prominence during this decade. . Indeed, that sums up the museum as well. Rock andThere's Elvis, arrayed in the leather he wore in his The other floors of the museum tend to concentrate roll has always been about open-mindedness and free­'68 comeback special. There's a complete KISS outfit, more on some of the other aspects of rock and roll, dom. The Hall of Fame encompasses that spirit by complete with face paint and thigh-high spiked boots. 
including rock journalism, deejays, and recording stu­offering rock and roll in all of its tremendous variety,There's John Lennon's original Sgt. Pepper's costume, dios {featuring an exact reproduction of the Sun from its origins in folk, country and R & B right up tonot 10 feet away from some of Madonna's raciest cre­Records studio in Memphis that started Elvis' career). the recent development of grunge. It invites us all nota:tions and one of David Bowie's spectacularly silly The other floors also featured more random memora­to judge this diversity, but to celebrate it. As theZiggy Stardust outfits. Freestanding mini-stages bilia such as Bob Marley's Bible and one of his dread­tremendous amount of talent exhibited in the Hallexhibit the outrageous stage creations of such groups locks, and a poster for a 1980 concert featuring "The shows, there's a lot to celebrate.
as ZZ Top, Parliament Funkadelic, and Alice Cooper 
Hall of Fame concert rocks Cleveland 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 

W:
en Frank Sinatra called Rock nd Roll a fad, he couldn't have een dreaming of this. 
The musical genre that Old Blue Eyes scoffed at {before he started doing duets with Bono and made parents cringe) gave itself legitimacy Saturday night by throwing one huge party for its new Hall of Fame in Cleveland, Ohio. The Concert for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, held at Cleveland Stadium, helped to cap a wild opening weekend for the Hall, and brought together some of the names in Rock 
Chuck Berry 

Broadcast by HBO to an estimated 33 million people, the-six and one-half hour long event reminded the 57,000 plus people in attendance, both young and old, why they love the music of rebellion in the first place. As the' brand new, I.M. 
Pei-designed glass temple to the religion of rock shone next door, the old, decrepit Cleveland Stadium shook to its rafters, and miraculously held together. 
For an event of its size (over thirty acts performed) the show went incredi­bly smoothly. With two stages {one that rotated) and taped performances of other rock idols, no one seemed to mind that they paid up to $540 for a ticket. 
The evening belonged, however, to the performers themselves. It was a show ftlled with awesome jams, magical pair­ings ... and a few surprises. 
From the moment Chuck Berry and Bruce Springsteen and the £-Street Band tore open the show with a scorch­ing rendition of "Johnny B. Goode", the audience knew something special was going on. The only rules for the evening: each artist must play the songs of an enshrined performer. 
The show continued to scale greater and greater heights. Jackson Browne did a stirring acoustic version of Bob Marley's "Redemption Song." Akron native Chrissie Hynde and her Pretenders got the Buckeyes in the audi­ence excited with their classic "Back to Ohio." The Kinks brought the crowd to their feet with "Lola." A Springsteen and The E-Street Band reunion sparked even more feverish reactions as the Boss played with Jerry Lee Lewis, Berry, and Bob Dylan. Springsteen was one of the few non-inducted performers to be allowed to play his own songs, including "She's the One" combined with the "Bo Diddley Shuffle" and "Darkness on the Edge of Town." (John Mellencamp and The Pretenders were the others.) 
Lewis, for his part, got the crowd worked up when he kicked over his piano bench, which prompted Springsteen to say, "He doesn't play rock and roll, he IS rock and roll." 

George Clinton and Sly Stone jammed out with the P-Funk All-stars on a funky "Thank You Fallittinme Be Mice Elf Again." Bon Jovi even produced a poignant moment with a heart-felt "Imagine." 
Old and new mixed on stage as Sheryl Crow paid tribute to The Rolling Stones, Gin Blossoms covered The Byrds' "Feel a Whole Lot Better," and Soul Asylum and Lou Reed played "Sweet Jane." Melissa Etheridge's covers of "Be My Baby," "Leader of the Pack" and "Wake up Little Susie" {with Jackson Browne) provided an interesting twist, consider­ing her macho image and declared sex­ual preferences. 
Credence Clearwater Revival frontman John Fogerty played an electric and electrifying "Born on the Bayou" and "Fortunate Son." Later he was joined by Sam Moore (Sam and Dave) for Wilson Pickett's "In the Midnight Hour." Moore earlier brought back memories with house band Booker T. and the MG's, as they played ''I'm Coming." AI Green paid soulful homage to the late Sam Cooke with "It's Been a Long Time Comin'." 
Soul was something that the show was not lacking. Aretha Franklin showed she could still belt it out with "(You make me feel like a) Natural Woman," but her inclusion of "Freeway of Love" among her three songs was inexplicable. James Brown rambled through a 25­minute set of "songs" that included "I Feel Good (I Got You)" and his famous cape routine, but also contained ram­bling requests for moments of silence for Mickey Mantle and Jerry Garcia, as well as one of Brown's 30-member entourage screaming "James Brown" over and over again for minutes at a time. Bruce Hornsby's tribute to the late Grateful Dead guitarist seemed much more appropriate. 
Concert organizer Robbie Robertson, who performed The Band's "The Load," did an admirable job assembling talent and keeping the concert moving. Acts like the Allman Brothers, John Mellencamp, and Johnny Cash provided terrific depth to the lineup without being overbearing. Natalie Merchant had the unenviable task of following Springsteen, but did a fine job with "I Know What to Do with It." Slash of Guns-n-Roses and Boz Scaggs ripped through Jimi Hedrix's "Red House." And the evening would not have been com­plete without Little Richard providing smoking renditions of "Good Golly, Miss Molly" and "Tutti Fruitti." 
As with any show of this size and mag­nitude, there were glitches and low­lights. Aside from James Brown's ram­blings, Ann and Nancy Wilson of Heart butchered Led Zeppelin's "Battle of Evermore" and then "Love Hurts." Bob Dylan looked a little lost in his set, but his band was solid, and his duet of "Forever Young" with Springsteen was memorable. Surprisingly, nobody played any songs by The Who, Cream, Simon and Garfunkel, or, most notably, Elvis Presley. And while the crowd was stunned that there was no all-star encore as in past years' induction cere­monies, which until now were held at various hotels, they left with the feeling that all good rock and roll shows show leave their audiences with ... 
The desire for more. 
A paraphrased Chuck Berry lyric stuck in the head after the show for the bene­fit of those who still doubted the staying power and attraction of rock and roll: · "Roll over Frank Sinatra, tell Tony Bennett the news." 
ACCE-NT

Tuesday, September 5, 1995 page 9 

:13elween /he .impre;sive ·t7Jndes !JJ(ounlains · · • MEDICAL MINUTE 
andllie ?acific... Ocean, .c:Sr:znliago offers 
The dynamics of 


CHILE 
a untf(ue comhirt~fiof! ~~sliH/y and;~rui~e 
. sleeping 
By KAREN HOUSLER Accent Writer . ,Jly LIZA NYKIEL Accent Medical Correseondent Picture it: you're lying on an exotic beach, basking in the 
:.Being the beginning of the semester. with ~ll that sun...in the middle of February. Or .. slight~y tedious beginning~of·the·year materiaJ, I maybe you prefer to be swooshing 
; was not surprised to see haJf my class asleep last down the ski slopes in the middle J. Monday morning. What did Suiprise me. however, of July. This probably sounds like . :~.· :Was what the professor did in response to this-she 
a far cry from the South Bend we 
: stopped the class and had "sleep patrol." We aJI all know and love, but for some ...had to turn to our neighbor and make ~ur:e that Notre Dame students studying 
they were awake and paying attention. While I abroad in Santiago, Chile, wishful 
, ~ope that my other professors don't learn this thinking recently became a reality. • · rather odd method of keeping their class amused, I The International Study Program 
•..think that sleep is a very interesting phenomena. in Santiago, Chile began for Notre 
.. · . We spend almost one-third of our lives sleeping Dame students just two years ago. 
· and still the question remains, "Why do we sleep?" The program is run in collabora­. ,Contrary to popular belief, sleeping is not a quiet. tion with the University of 
passive repose. While we sleep, the brain and its Michigan and the University of ··. J,leuraJ activity is not so much reduced as it is Wisconsin. When Notre Dame first 
. changed. In fact, twenty percent of the time that 
photo courtesy of Caroll~e Richard 
we spend sleeping. our brain has the same patterns direction of Tim Scully, participa­many diiTerent facets that make up Dame's Center for Social Concerns, 
joined the program under the 
of~eurological activity as ifwe were wide awake. tion was relatively small, with only Chilean life. Students reported students are required to spend one 
. Some experts believe that sleep is necessary to six students making the journey. that the families were always very . day .a week in a rural, poverty­
al~ow the brain to shift gears and make the fine Since that time, the popularity of welcoming. It was often through stricken are& of Chlle. ·There, 
·adjustments that are needed for learning and the Santiago program has grown their host families that many Domers work with the program · 
memory. Even though pulling all·nighters might tremendously. so that during this American students learned the facilitators to interact with the 
.make you feel like you're remembering the infor­last semester. twenty-three Notre Chilean people's opinions of their Chilean people and help them in . .' mation required for that last final, it is often more Dame students left South Bend to government, their cou11try. and any way that they ·can. This is a 
· helpful just to do some moderate studying and then make Santiago their home away their society. Jaime Feldmann five-credit course which gives a 
· go to sleep so that your brain can sort through and from home. commented, "The Chilean program select number of Notre Dame stu­
organize the information that you are feeding it. The International Studies allows for a greater amount of cul­dents an opportunity to-do some 
Studies have been done which involved depriving Program in Chile has some distinc­tural immersion. You aren't in any field work and volunteer in Chile. 
people of over 48 hours of sleep and showed that tive characteristics which help to way separated from the Chilean Students who participated in the 
:these subjects became very unresponsive and often explain the recent growth in popu­people." ILADES program were very 
started hallucinating. While taking that last final, if larity that it has experienced. The adamant about the advantages and 
you should see the leprechaun dancing naked out· program is open to sophomores benefits of this facet of the 
side your exam room window, don't worry, you're and juniors from all colleges at International Study Program in 
just really tired. Notre Dame. Students have the 'Iwas exposed to so Chi'le. Mark Torma remarked, . Sleep isn't merely a continuous unconsciousness. option of studying for either one many different reali­"HADES gives you an opportunity 
·. There are actually four different stages that one semester or an entire year at to see a different perspective of the 
· constantly passes through while sleeping. These
ties in Chile. The people 
·four stages are characterized by differences in This Chilean institution is one of there were each so see a part of Chile that even most 
Pontificia Universidad Catolica. Chilean lifestyle. It allows you to 
brain activity and muscle tension. In stage one, the most prestigious universities in wealthy Chileans don't see." 
. muscles lose their tension and brain activity 
different from each other, 
South America. All of the classes The service component of the .. changes. In this stage we can usually be easily that students take are taught in and so different from Chilean study program is one of the 
awakened. In stage two, brain waves slow and we Spanish alongside Chilean stu· benefits that students feel sets the 
fall into a deeper slwnber. The eye-brain connec·
anyone I'd ever 
tions shut off, so even if we were to play a cruel entation program when the stu­encountered before. I left abroad programs. Father Don 
dents. with the exception of an ori­program apart from other study 
joke on our roommates anq tape their eyes open, dents first arrive. The orientation McNeill from the Center of Social 
during this phase. they would be incapable of see·
with this incredible vision 
. ing anything. Stages three and four are marked.by tional studies students from the of the world. It really gave service that students are exposed 
classes are held with other interna­Concerns noted that it is through 
even slower brain waves, and stage four is what is Univnrsity of Michigan and the me a new perspective on to many diiTerent Chilean walks of 
referred to as REM or the stage of rapid eye move­University of Wisconsin, and are life. As Laura Beumeister put it, "I 
. ment. It is in REM that we dream and have the
the United States.' 
same brain patterns as if we were awake. The to Chile and its culture. realities in Chile. The people there 
designed to acclimate the students was exposed to so many diiTerent 
, highest level of growth hormone. the hormone that. The opportunity to take classes were each so different from each 
as the name implies. stimulates growth of the body, 
Laura Baumeister 

. are released during REM. It was often thought that the aspects of the program that I'd ever encountered before. I left 
with the Chilean people is one of other, and so diiTerent from anyone 
· the eye movements observed in people in REM students found to be especially Waking up to a breathtaking with this incredible vision of the 
· stage were associated with the dreams that they rewarding. Laura Baumeister. a view of the Andes Mountains tend­world. It really gave me a new 
were having, however this has been shown to be Notre Dame senior who recently ed to make students much more perspective on the United States." 
false. The eye movements are believed to be a returned from Santiago, said. "It aware of natural beauty. Those Another aspect of the Chilean 
result of the neurological activity experienced dur­gave you a chance to really interact who have returned from studying program that could possibly 
itlg REM. with the Chilean people. There [at in Chile enthusiastically stress the explain its growth in popularity is 
lnterestingly enough, while we dream, our body the university) you're treated no many opportunities that they had the Maryknoll Seminar. During this 
reacts similarly as if we were having a mild panic diiTerently than the Chileans." to explore the land, whether it was time, students travel to rural com­
attack. Heart-rate and breathing speed up, more for the duration of their time by hiking, rock climbing, or camp­munities in the south of Chile. 
sweat and stomach acid is produced, and blood away from Notre Dame, students ing. Students are presented with They have the opportunity to stay 
pressure and cholesterol levels increase. live with host families. Here, they the freedom to travel throughout in the homes of the Chilean people 
Surprisingly. infants dream much more than adults are able to catch a glimpse of the the Chilean countryside...and to or possibly with various resource 
· do-about what will remain a mystery. People who have been blind since birth have reported dream­
.---------------------------~~~nm~ experience the workers in the area. The 
. ing about eertain sounds and textures. In a study disorganized nature to get a glimpse of what the tradi­
rather erratic and Maryknoll seminar allows students 
.. 
conducted by San Francisco's Neonatal and of the South tional Chilean customs and her­
Obstetrical Research Lab. it was reveaJed that pregnant woman in their first trimester often American trans­itage are like. It. was the Maryknoll portation system! program, along with ILADES. 
dream about worms. frogs and potted plants, while As one student put which really gave the students who 
during their third trimester, they often dreant it, "Every day was studied in Chile a true picture of 
about lions. monkeys and Barbie dolls. an adventure. You the enormous rift between the rich 
One odd disorder associated with sleep is a never knew what and the poor of Chile. Jaime 
chronic condition called narcolepsy. A narcoleptic was going to hap­Feldmann remarked, "Through my 
often suffers from abrupt sleep episodes of short pen." study abroad time in Chile, I was 
duration, which involve muscle weakness and usu~ The beauty of the able to see with an {)Utsider's eyes 
·aJly a loss of consciousness. Although college stu· Chilean countryside the workings of a society. I think 
. dents seem to have an incredible knack at being provided a suitable that's really unique. It gave me a 
able to fall asleep in the most peculiar of surround· background for the greater appreciation and aware­
ings (lecture rooms. Doors. football stadiums), nar­many . service ness of my own culture." 
coleptics can often suddenly fall asleep while dri· opportunities that The fact that the program of 
ving a car or playing sports, adding to the inherent are available international study in Chile has 
danger of the condition. The cause of narcolepsy is through the pro­grown substantially in the past few 
unknown, however researchers do know that gram. One such· years speaks strongly of the merit 
instead of falling asleep and progressively going opportunity is of the program. In an exciting 
through the four stages. a narcoleptic immediately kno·wn as the opportunity for students interested 
enters REM when they have these sleep attacks and Approaches to in the Santiago program, there will 
. are usually very hard to wake up. Poverty and be a meeting today, September 5, Development at 4:30 PM in 246 DeBartolo. 
Uza Nykiel is a senior biology major planning on 
attending medical school next fall. She has volun·
Seminar. or the Students who have participated in 
. t'eered in various hospitals and last summer this program, spon-about their experiences and 
HADES progam. In the Chile program will be speaking 
worked in a health clinic in Lake County, Illinois. 
photo courtesy of Caroline Richard s0 red by N0 t r e answering questions. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 5, 1995 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl. 

Expos bullpen blows Perez's no-hitter, Giants win 2-1 
By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Carlos Perez pitched 6 2-3 no-hit innings for Montreal, but Barry Bonds had an RBI double and the San Francisco Giants rallied for two runs in the ninth Monday to defeat the Expos 2­1. 
David McCarty won the game with an RBI single, his first National League hit, off Mel Rojas (1-4), the fifth Montreal. pitcher. 

Deion Sanders led off with a single and scored on Bonds' double to left-center. Matt Williams was intentionally walked and two outs later, McCarty singled inside third base to drive in Bonds. 
The winner was Shawn 

Barton (4-1) who struck out the side in the ninth. 
Perez, who left the game be­cause he was limited to a spe­cific number of pitches, walked one and allowed another batter to reach base on his own error in the first inning. 
The Giants got their first hit with two outs in the eighth when pinch-hitter Glenallen Hill softly lined a single to cen­ter off Gil Heredia. 
Perez displayed his usual demonstrative character on the mound, celebrating after each of his seven strikeouts and even after some routine groundouts. 
A rookie who had not pitched in 14 days because of a sus­pension and a stiff lower back, Perez allowed only three balls to reach the outfield. 
Perez was ejected by umpire Bill Hohn on Aug. 22 when he disputed a home run by Raul Mondesi of the Dodgers. The ejection turned into a four­game suspension when Perez bumped Hohn. 
He then missed a week be­cause of his back. He was sup­posed to throw a maximum of 70 pitches Monday but reached that limit in the sixth inning and fmished with 83. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
-:.. ..  Need a place to stay for the sum­mer? We are subletting for Mid­NOTICES May 96 through August 96 at College Park Condominiums. Call SAVE THIS AD Sarah, Nicole, or Jen for details @ WEEKEND ROOMS FOR 273-1738. N.D./S.M.C. VISITORS. 5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES NICELY DECORATED ROOMS 219-277-2388 FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS, REASON. RATES, GREAT ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2ILOST&FOUNDI MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM 277-8340. FOUND: A gold ring with other fea­tures. Found last week, about Lafayette Square: I must sub-lease August 29th between Stanford and ASAP. Just 200 a mo. Call Bryce St. Michael's parking Jot, by the @ 287-8863 Infirmary. Call Francie at X4205 to r~-------------, identify. . FOR SALE WANTED I Bylocai1982NDGrad . 1984 BMW 325E Blue 5speed sun-Looking for a SuperChampionship roof + all power options tennis player to go play a good High mileage, looks &runs great match. Call Natasha at 4-3490. $4900 Call 299-0680 VOLUNTEERS Pontiac Sunbird 2000, 1984, 4 Dr, The Early Childhood Development automatic, air, tape deck. Very Center is looking for volunteers to good condition. Recent Goodyear help tor 1 .25-2 hours per week at tires, brakes, exhaust system. the Notre Dame and the Saint 28 mpg. 90,000 mi. $1 ,350. Mary's programs. lf'you enjoy 291-3125, message or alter 5. young children and would be interested in reading stories, Entertainment center, big, black & singing songs, and helping cool! Great shape, $180 new. $75. children paint, build with blocks, Cindy 1-5022. pretend, and more, please call Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 SONY CFD470 MEGABASS Dual (ECDC-ND) or Cindy Hestad at Tape/CO/ AM-FM boombox 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC). 15mo old/used rarely $186/obo call 289-8917 Part time work for graduate student in electrical engineering. For more info. call Dennis Cooper 237-9665. THE PERFECT CARI1985 HONDA CRX, BLUE, 5-SPEED, Sitter needed $4.50/hr. Must drive. GREAT GAS, LOW MAINT. $2400 Non-smoker. Mon. 12-5:30 + 1 Fall CALL 271-8280 weekend. Kids ages 6,8,& 14.277­9661 1986 Red Mustang, Standard, AM/FM Cassette. In good condition. $1000 FUNDRAISER $2,000. Call287-7928. Fraternities, Sororities & Student Organizations. 1986 Red Mustang, Standard, You've seen credit card AM/FM Cassette. In good condition. fundraisers before, but $2,000. Call287-7928. you've never seen the Citibank fund raiser that pays $5.00 per application. 15"150 WATT SUBWOFFER Call Donna at (NOTHING BUT PURE BASS) 1-800-932-0258 ext. 65. $175 O.B.O. x4-1668 Qualified callers receive a FREE camera. '85 Shadow 500 ding in tank WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR runs great PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS­$800 SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN. 233-5288 219-462-8943 I NEED T-SHIRTSII NEED FEMMES TIX? 3-ND/Bud 2-ND/Highlife I HAVE TWO LEFT 4-Drink Like Champ CALL NORM @ 232-2954 & maybe morel OR 631-5313 FOR Aaron x1721 2 FEMMESTIX I FORRENT II TICKETS 2BDRMHOMEFORRENTNEAR ~------------------~ CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO HOME/AWAY GAMES. 232-2595 219-232-0061,24 HAS.  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 1 G.A. TICKET NEEDED FOR B.C. GAME 271-1289 NEED TEXAS GA'S. CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, EXT. 8796. Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home games. Brett 272-7223 Desperately need USC tickets!!! 3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student Please call Chris at 288-7843. Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy! Call 1-800-223,2440 Ext.4370 $$$$$$ need vanderbilt tickets GA's or married student tix call Dan@ 273-4780 need TEXAS, USC, BC tkts call Mike x4429 I HAVE USC TIX Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs. Call Matt W(312)704-7704 H(312)549-0825 Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. NEED NO-TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. ND DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & PURDUE GA'S. 219-422-6088. 1111@!1@ @1@1@@ @!#$#@$$%$@ Larry needs youl! He needs your tickets tool Looking for Navy G.A.s and VAndy GAs or student tix. Call 634-3593 if you can help him out. !#@#$@$%#@ @#@ @##@@ @#) I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'S! PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729. Need Student Booklets and GAs for every game. Call277-4755 NEEDED: 2 GA's for USC ca114x4876 Student needs 2 tickets for USC game lor DOMESICK parents please call Bonnie at 634-3397 with your tickets. 4 GAs need for Vanderbilt, 273­3016 Will trade 2 '96 Daytona 500 tickets for 4 ND/TX tickets. 904-947-6726 from 9to 5. Need 2 NO/Texas tickets. Call904­239-8269 alter 5 pm. Will trade 2 BC GA's tor 2 Texas GA's. 815-282-9503 HELP WANTED:  Need BC GAs 232-9784 FOR SALE TICKETSIIII G.A. S ALL GAMES ••••••• 272-7233!1!11!!111 ALUM -needs 2 or 4 ND/TEX ­GA's. Will trade 2 ND/NW plus $50 lor 2 or will pay $100 each. Call JC or Barry 815-633-7193 CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT? NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT TOP DOLLAR PAID CALL KELLI X4044 Texan Domer needs 2 Texas GA's for family. Call Jeff @ 233-2460 STUDENT and MARRIED STUDENT TJX for sale 1-6353 ***"'"'** Help ********** need 1 Vanderbilt GA **** call Paul x1397 ** WILL TRADE 4 USC GA + PRKG FOR 4 TX GA. 708-948-8293 USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! Howdy. I need TEXAS tickets, and you need money. Call Eric at x0669 to make a deal. I want your TEXAS GA's. Please sell them to me. Call Amanda at x2817 I need two GA's for Navy, and I'm willing to do anything for them. Call Jeff at x0669. Looking for some money? Sell me 2 Navy GA's. Call Frank at x3389. Need 1 GA or Student for Texas Game!! II! Will pay lots of$$$$$$$ Please call x4928 Anna Need 2 Vandy GA's x0652 NO student needs 6 Texas and 2 Navy tickets lor family driving REALLY far to get here ­PLEASE call Kerry @ 634-2925 Need 4 GA 's for Texas Game need GOOD seats. Call Kristen 277-3019 $$$ NEED UT, USC, AND BC GA'S, WILL PAY BIG CASH OR TRADE VANDY GA'S CALL ERIC OR NICK@ 232-1726$$$ STU. TIX 4 SALE GOOD SEAT(S) CALLX0516 I NEED one PURDUE ticket. Contact Greg at (634) 4-3889. WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817­738-5109 Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tix 4 Texas game -Reggie x4297 TRADE-2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 USC/Texas GAs-Call 219-273­8379 I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890  2 navy GAs needed -tina 273-3174 Help! I need 2 or 3 Texas GA'sl Kevin x1883 HEY I Need Vandy and Texas tickets call 239-7959 ask for Mike Need 2 Vandy GA's Please call Jon@ X1103 NEED TICKETS AND PRAYERS. TEXAS GA'S CALL SARAH X4916 Need any home GA's call Steve@ x1103 NEEDBTEX GA BILLY 273-4212 I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI CALL JOHN @ 234-5771 I NEED 2 BC GA'S!!! CALL KELLY x4801 TRADE -2 Navy GA'S for 2 Vandblt. Ga'S call4-2744 NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 NEED 2 PURDUE TIX X3580 NEED TICKETS??? 4 SALE 1 stud & 1 married stud booklet X4­3144 !!@VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@!! Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt! GAs are ideal. Help her out and she will pay you the big bucks! Call her at 219-634-4203 and make her an offer. "&*%%$@#(Go Jrishl)#@$%%*&" I need 4 GA tickets tor the NAVY game. Call Megan X2638 2 stud tix 4 all home games 4 sale. ANU x4464 I NEED 2 BC TICKETS I I have $$$, Navy GAs, and USC tix. Please sell or trade. x3887. Did somebody say Deal???? ...... Desperately seeking 1Texas +lor B.C. GA or student ticket. Willing to swap Vandy +lor USC ticket. Call273-4389 or leave message. ????TRADE???? Seeking to trade 2 Vandy GA's for 2 Texas GA's call Jim/Stacie (B14) 261-0056 Need 2 GA's for the Texas game. Will pay $$$$'s. Call Tom X-1105. Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s lor Texas tickets. Tom 634-1157 WANTED 5 BC GA'sl!! PLEASE CALL JENJ 271-1850.  Need WASHINGTON GAs badly, Big$, call Mike x1208 NEED 1 PURDUE TX. CALL CARY @ 4-0993 PERSONAL JAZZERCISE IT'S A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & STAY THAT WAY. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 277-0111 FOR MORE INFO. Top Ten Things To Say NO To 1o. Natural fibers 9. Walks with blankets B. Grace elevators 7. Small boys 6. Unholy acts on Mama 5. Funerals at the laKe 4. Stepan soccer fields 3. T's and J's 2. NAB's 1. AII"DAWGS" Hey, you! I know you're interested in Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year is com­ing up soon. Mark your calendars: (9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune). All are welcome. Keep the faith and love alive. Be a part of the action. I'll see you there. HAPPY BIRTHDAY CHRISTINE I! WE THINK YOU'RE WICKED COOL I LOVE,4th floor&liz hey k.im-thanks for the show-do you want to borrow a skirt? I where the hell were you? love, your fan club Needed: 2-3 more people for fall break rafting/camping trip. 1 day raft. down Gauley River, W.Va.-5day camp TN. If interested, call277-9682 ext. 635. )@#@$%fill%&&*"%&%$@$#% Results of nysp summer contest:: 2 PE men have tied for 1st place Congratulationsiii-Keep upthe GOOD WORKII )@#$#%%"&(%*&"$#%#$ EXPERIENCED CHILD CARE Full time, Mon.-Fri.,ND/SMC area References available Call287-0116 M-We both know who needs to be teased about this weekend. I can however mention 7:30 a.m. Desperately seeking writers, photographers, public mimes, unicyclists, etc.. The SMC Observer Staff is looking for a lew good women. If you've got some talent we can use, call me. Patti 631-4540 (We're more inter­ested in writers and photographers right now but we can eventually use people with circus talent tool  
Affordable, clean, student apts. Furnished studio, $235 Furnished 1 bedrm, $270 heat & water included 755 South Bend Ave -1 block from N.D. Ave deposit, references 1-800-582-9320 Awesome Tailgaters!ll ND FIGHT­ING IRISH conversion van! Runs Great, $1995, Call to see!232-9784 Furnished Room. Clean, attractive. Kitchen privileges. Quiet neighbor­hood. 2 mi. to N.D. $200 per month. Call 282-2576.  TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. BUY* SELL *TRADE (219) 232-0058 -24 HRS. BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 ND SEASON TICKETS ANY OR ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. andWASHJNGTON A MUST PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........ 2771659  I will do anything lor USC GAs. Money no object. Brian x3692 BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE CALL KATIE@ 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! NEED 4 USC GAS BIG MONEY! RUTH x3741 NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS­NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL­LAR. (61 0)995-9671  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 2 GAs 4 Sale: NW,Vandy,UT,Navy 271-2837. I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND WANT TO MAKE A TRADE ..... Call Tom at: 4-3893  Desparately need 1-2 TEXAS tkts (stud. or GA). Call Mary Kay X4421. Need 4 G.A.s for any home game. Call Alison X2511. Student ticket bookets for sale. Good seats. Leave message @ 273-4372 .. I have 2 BC GA's.Need 2 USC GA's. Trade with me! x1362  Shingler-we're proud of you. L5,C2, here's your ad. Wouldn't want you to feel left out. L-If you want any good classifieds, we're going to have to start the weekend right. Your up next for a tattoo. Snyder's Pretzles, 79 cents. What a bargain! That is a bargain tor me! I think I will buy some.  


Tuesday, September 5, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• U.S. OPEN RESULTS 

Seles, Becker return to championship form 
By BOB GREENE Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Monica Seles took another step toward her third U.S. Open title today, defeating 11th-seed­ed Anke Huber 6-1, 6-4 to reach the quarterfinals. 
Also advancing to the women's quarters were No. 5 Jana Novotna and, in a mild upset, big-serving Brenda Schultz-McCarthy of the Netherlands. 
Novotna defeated unseeded Katarina Studenikova of Slovakia 6-4, 6-4, while the 11th-seeded Schultz-McCarthy defeated No. 7 Kimiko Date of 
---, Chinese -Americar 1 Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 
7\uthentic Szechuan, Mandarin & HW1an Cuisir.: 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 Votcd.Be:\~ Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Ori~ntal r<estm1rant-' 
in Michiana by ·.~ 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
(nellI Ill Rarldall'a Inn ) Mic:lliana Nuit'l 
.•. ' . t ~
.\. 
( .· ~ ' 

Frid~y,. $~P, ..,,~~-~~:.. ·_~t~:~......-.·.--.-...-·­
7:30. P-~11'&. :~:Washina•~n: ......"'' .,.,o.ltll~.........................,.
.. 

To benefit the Ara Pa.rseghi~n Mt3dical.. . · . ·. . . .. ..···. .· .·· . .·~n·a: thp~~a13{~t reception, sponsored by' tJte National:N.D. Al~~i JU;s9 -~• . : , . ·. each:pe~for~n~e.:>. > Tickets: $50 (a portion~_Qf ~~Qh?·ti,q~~~::i$'.·\~!:9-~ductibla): : · . ·; ..·; '· ··.,, can (218) 63:1~585&: orrusij···.tbe:::or.d·a~;·tor:m·.below~:-~--~·:/:~:··~-~:"::.~--~~:~;'i~~:: 
· · .Visa or: Mastercard."ac'cep.-led ·}~::::;~ .' .:~z~:+ . s~t";·,-::_ ~ ·. · t~;r?,~~:,;i?·; 
• , ~ . ', -, '·~ . •· t•·.,_~t·. ··A:v.>\.J:""lr -.. /t.,:lifJ:.:V\ .·1::, •. " ~""'"~.">:_>:·.:...,. ·'<~'·.·:<.'.:. 
Tickets can also be purcha~ed at th~ ~~~r~~~~::~t~~~~~ Fe,~~~~. ?ri.t~~ rs~R:;-:~~~;~; :~:-> :)1i'~~ ~ 
TICKET ORDER FORM · _,.......: ·. 
·I Mall to ·ca,.choa· Tickato • Washington Hall, Unlvol'!llty of Noire Damo, Notre Dome, IN 46556. Make ehaaks poyablo lo: Univol'!lity of Notre Damo 1;:.
·I 1\;•
-J .JVIsa ..!Mastercard Card# ___ --~-_ ------_____ _ _____ Exp.dala 1·. 
·l r; 
)~ w 
J~ ~ 
~ ~ ~~·~ I
•4 «
1 # of tickets x $50 each =$ total. Performance: 0 Friday, Sepl 8 0 Saturday, Sept. 9 I~; ·~~-~':'!.~..,.~~'::"'-~~-~~.~.~~:"::"'.~~~,m~~~...f.'%~.~~~~'':~J',.~'f~~~~-;r.~~.,.,.~.~m~~~:r"):~~ 
Notre Dame Club 
of Sai('l~Jo~eph Valley & 
. : ··~,<:<• ' .• ; 
present 





GMGI~I~II 
Off the Bench with Knute, Vince and the Bear An original play by playwright Buddy Farmer. 
~-.. 

Japan 7 -5,.3-6, 6-2. 
In a fourth-round men's match, fourth-seeded Boris Becker beat No. 13 Marc Rosset of Switzerland 7-6 (7-4), 6-3, 6­3. 
Seles won the women's title in 1991 and 1992. Then, in April 1993, she was stabbed by a deranged spectator during a match in Hamburg, Germany. 
Ranked No. 1 in the world at the time, Seles didn't" return to the tennis tour until last month at the Canadian Open, which she won. 
Huber, who broke Seles twice and was her toughest opponent at Toronto, again made a strong bid for the victory on the hardcourts of the National Tennis Center. 
The German broke the tour­nament's No. 2 seed in the sec­ond game of the second set and made Seles stay on court for one hour, 11 minutes, the first time in the tournament that she has needed more than an hour to win a match. 
With his win, Becker became a big favorite for a semifinal berth since his quarterfinal foe will be the winner of tonight's battle between two unseeded players, Patrick McEnroe and Daniel Vacek of the Czech Republic. 
Because of a rash of upsets, Becker and No. 1 Andre Agassi were the only seeded players left in the top half of the men's singles draw at the National Tennis Center. 
It was the Becker of old, the 1989 U.S. Open champion, who took the court against Rosset. Becker blasted 14 aces and, after the first set, controlled the · match, which took only 2:01. 
The German broke Rosset once in the second set and twice in the third, while never losing his serve. 

.,·'· .. ;.~. f' 
For Rosset, the 1992 Olympics gold medalist, the loss continued a string of frustration in major events. In the 23 Grand Slam tournaments he has played, Rosset never has reached the quarterfinals. 
The 6-foot-2 Schultz-McCarthy is in a Grand Slam quarterfinal for the second time, having advanced that far at Wimbledon this summer. This victory came in an error­plagued matchup. 
Date made 38 unforced errors, while Schultz-McCarthy made 62, including 28 in the first set, which she won. 
Match point was typical of most of the match. Date rammed a second-serve return into the net. 
Meanwhile, Arantxa Sanchez Vicario's U.S. Open ended one Sunday too soon. 
This was the U.S. Open in which Sanchez Vicario, the defending women's champion, was going to gain respect. The plan neglected to take into con­sideration Mary Joe Fernandez. 
Then along came Fernandez, grabbing a spot in the quarter­finals with a 1-6, 6-4, 6-4 victo­ry over the No. 3 seed Sunday. 
So much for plans. 
"I think I'm a human being and I think I cannot win every match," Sanchez Vicario said, "but, of course, I wanted to win this match." 
Graf, a three-time U.S. Open champion, and 1990 winner Gabriela Sabatini also reached the quarterfinals, along with unseeded Amy Frazier, a 6-4, 4-6, 6-3 winner over 12th-seed­ed Natasha Zvereva. 
Graf beat Chanda Rubin 6-2. 6-2, after Sabatini stopped 14­year-old Martina Hingis of Switzerland 6-2, 6-4. 
Playing third-round matches, one round behind the women, winners in the men's singles Sunday included second-seed­ed, two-time champion Pete Sampras, No. 3 Thomas Muster, No. 5 Michael Chang, No. 8 Michael Stich, No. 14 Jim Courier, No. 15 Todd Martin, Byron Black of Zimbabwe and Michael Tebbutt of Australia, who upset 12th-seeded Richard Krajicek of the Netherlands 6­3, 3-6, 6-7 (7-5), 7-6 (7-4), 7-6 (7-4). 
• SPORTS BRIEFS . 
Horseback Riding ~ An informational meeting will b'e held on Thursday, Sept. 7 at 6 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom. Class begins Sept. 14, and more information is avnllable at 1~ 6100. Men's Club Volleyball ­Tryouts will be held on Sept. 10~ 12 iri the JACC Auxiliary Gym. For more information come to activities night or contact Josh at 4·3413 or Gregg at 4·1650. RecSports Intramurals -RecSports is oflering a earn­pus 2-person golf scramble, inter-hall and Grad/Faculty/Staff soccer, campus outdoor volleyball and inter-hall cross country. The entry deadline is Sept. 6. The sign-ups for the golC scramble ar.e at the golf course pro shop and all oth~ ers are at the RecSports office. Please call RecSports at 1-6100 for date and time of captains' meetings. Pounce Purdue Volleyball Tournament -Register a team in advance in the RecSports office for this one· night event. The event is scheduled for Friday, Sept. 8, at the Stepan courts. lt is a co-ree 6·on·6 tournament requiring a minimum or two females on the court at all times. There will also be music and refreshments. The deadline to enter a team 
is Thursday, Sept. 7.  For  
more  information,  call  
RecSports at 1·61 00.  

Bike Rldt~ ~ RecSports will be sponsoring a bike ride from New Buffalo to the Dunes {approximately 25 miles round trip) on Sunday, Sept. 
17. A picnic lunch at the Dunes is included along with transportation for you and your bike. The fee Is $8 and space is limited. Helmets are required and you must register in advance at the RecSports office. The bus departs the L\brary Circle at 
• 10 and returns at 5. For more information call RecSports at 1-6100. 

Tuesday, September 5, 1995
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Sosa propels Cubs 

The At Work Program® is coming to The University of Notre Dame! Enjoy all the convenience and benefits of the Weight Watchers program right on campus! 
Attend a FREE information meeting to find out more: 
Thursday, September 7 

12:00 -12:45 pm Join us in a little 
Foster Room healthy competition! LaFortune 
Faculty, Staff & Students are invited to participate! 
...­
Contact Jessica Kapsa at 631-5829 for details! 
©1995 Weight Watchers and The At Work Program are registered trade­marks of Weight Watchers International, Inc. All rights reserved 
against the Rockies. 
This time, Colorado manager Don Baylor thought Sosa's two­run first-inning shot -which went well o\rer the left-field foul pole and landed outside Wrigley Field -was foul. But third base umpire Mark Hirschbeck called it fair and that was all the support Castillo (9-8) needed. 
Starting with a four-game se­ries at Colorado in mid-August, Sosa has 13 home runs and 30 RBis in 18 games, moving him into a tie for the NL lead in homers (33) and RBis (103) with the Rockies' Dante Bichette. 

Tuesday, September 5, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
defense Saturday. not out of slightly banged up, will be out Sophomore John McLaughlin readjusted in preparation for choice, but out of necessity. until Wednesday. will probably get the start at Purdue.
Football 
"It's the type of situation Personnel changes will be outside linebacker instead of "What happened years ago continued from page 16 we're in," defensive coordinator kept to a minimum, if Monday's freshman Kory Minor. who was not a factor," Davie said. Bob Davie said. "We don't have practice is any indication. started in the season opener. "We had a great respect for 
they had only 106. The problem 
that luxury." Sophomore Ivory Covington "Kory did a couple of good Northwestern going in, as we 
was that nobody stepped up." 
And the depth problem con­was back in practice and work­things," Davie said. "And do now. But there's not doubt 
Hemedies to that problem 
tinues. Senior Cliff Stroud is ing in with the first team McLaughlin came in and did a that losing the first game was 
may be hard to come by, strict­
now out indefinitely because of defense. Doctors checked the great job. It'll be a week-to­devastating."
ly because of numbers. Notre 
academic problems, and defen­flexibility of his neck following week thing. Kory got his first While the coaches are confi­
Dame used only 14 players on 
sive end Corey Bennett, who's drills. start under his belt, so things dent that the players will 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad.  
ACTIVITIES NIGHT TONIGHT TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5 7:00 ~ 9:00 PM JACC COME AND GET INVOLVED IN NOTRE DAME ORGANIZATIONS!  

will probably go more smooth­
..
!y. 

Minor, punter Hunter Smith, kicker Kevin Kopka and Jimmy Friday, who saw time on spe­cial teams, were the only fresh­men to play. 
But possibly not as smoothly as Notre Dame's mental state as they try to get their helmets 
BEGINNING SEPTEMBER 19Tu 
INSTITUTE 

an opportunity for outstanding freshmen and Tuesday nights from sophomores to attend a 7:00pm to 8:30pm in the series of leadership Notre Dame Room development seminars 

Applications must be returned to the Student Activities Office by September 5. For an application and/or more information, contact the Student Activities Office, at 631-7308, 315 LaFortune Student Center. 


WANT TO GET PUBLISHED? 
The Notre Dame Science Quarterly, a periodical published by the students ·or the College of Science, is working to add to its current staff. If you are interested in becoming a part of our organization, please contact us by one of the following methods: 
By e-mail:  scienceq@darwin.cc.nd.edu  
By Phone:  1-5757  
In Person:  238 Nieuwland Science Hall  

• 
Potential submissions include any article which involves any area of science. 

• 
Staff positions include writers, HTML authors, and layout editors 


There will be an organizational meeting for all interested individuals on Thursday, September 7, 1995 in room 184 Nieuwland Science Hall at 7:00p.m. 
• Watch for our table at Activities Night! 
bounce back. the guys wearing the helmets are not necessarily the ones on the hot seat. 
Holtz has been personally criticized by several talk radio hosts around the country, but it doesn't seem to bother him. 
"People can talk," he said. "If they didn't there wouldn't be talk radio or television shows." 
-.. 
r .............................................' 
,_
The 1st 

Room 120 Law School 
All Juniors & Seniors Should Attend -.. 
Everyone Welcome ! 
'-·············································-'' 

page 14 

The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 




Belles set sights on new season 
By STEPHANIE BUEK Sports Writer 
With reorganized personnel, a modified offensive attack, and a beefed-up schedule that includes three nationally-ranked opponents, the Saint Mary's College volleyball team heads into its first week of com­petition looking not only to improve upon last season's record of 12-17, but to gain prominence as a regional con­tender as well. 

The Belles open the season on the road tonight at 7 o'clock against Manchester College. Last year the Belles easily han­died Manchester in three of four matches, losing only one -match 2-15, due to what Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek called a case of "freshman nerves." Novice nerves should not be an issue tonight, however, as the Belles return seven from last year's squad. Schroeder-Biek, now in her fifth year with the Belles, is confident that a stringent pre­season practice routine, focus­ing on individual skills, ball control, and physical condition­ing will make her team better than they were a year ago, and superior to Manchester tonight. "This is a good group," said Schroeder-Biek. "We have new talent with two freshmen, and we have been doing some new things in practice: working on control, learning skill levels, getting a lot of repetition." The acquisition of youth is an integral part of the Belles' new talent. Though the Belles return seven to this season's line-up, the roster itself consists of only nine players, down from 12 last year. Schroeder-Biek specifically tailored the roster to such a number with the goals of creating a more cohe­sive unit and fine-tuning the team's communication skills. Senior captains Ann Lawrence {right attack), Sara Stronczek {middle attack) and Kelley Prosser (outside attack) return on the front line for the Belles, and sophomore setter Kelly Meyer will run the Belles' 5-1 offense. Freshmen Kelli Lovell (out­side attackJ and Laura Schreeg {middle attack) are the new­comers to the Belles' roster. Schroeder-Biek looks for Schreeg to step in with great blocking for the Belles in the absence of 6'3" Betsy Connelly, who is studying abroad this year. Thus, with a blend of youth and experience, the team is small, but effective. Along with the size of the team, a new offense will also be a contributing factor in the Belles' success. According to Meyer, executing a 5-l offense is key in creating a winning record. While last year the Belles had 
....a 
VARSITY SHOP
....., 
NOT~E DAME JOYCE ACC 

..-SECOND FLOOR 
CONCOURSE 
the personnel to run either a 5­1 or a 6-2, this year's honed-down roster is geared toward a single setter throughout the rotation, rather than two. 
Meyer said that though the new offensive scheme puts some added pressure on her to remain healthy and injury-free, she is confident that the consis­tent 5-1 will make. the Belles a better team. 
"I want to improve on setting and get more assists each game," said Meyer. "Hopefully with the 5-1. I can be more involved in the attack. There is some pressure on me, but I do have people to back me up; Sara (Stronczek) ·can do pretty much anything we need her to do. This year will be better with nine people because we get more of a chance to improve on individual skills," Meyer concluded. 
The Belles have an edge over the competition in the person of new Assistant Coach Jennie Joyce. According to Schroeder-Biek, Joyce, a two-time all-American from Graceland College in Iowa, is a tremen­dous asset to the team, specifi­cally in the area of setting. 
"She is very knowledgeable about the game; we work well together. Jennie is my voice in practice," commented Schroeder-Biek. 
Sophomo.re middle/right attack Arwen Dickey echoed 

_________:__ 



WE'RE MORE Tllt\N JUST SPORTSWEi\R. 
631·8560 

....._..:_____________..,!:::::::::=====================~ 
DINE-IN Delivery Service 
RESTAURANTS TO 
YOU! 
Announcing ... NEW! EXTENDED HOURS 

'------------------------------------------------------------------' 
WE'VE 



GOT IT All, 
FROM 


CTOP. 

Schroeder-Biek's praise of Joyce's contribution to the Belles' program. According to Dickey, Joyce's coaching style compliments Schroeder-Biek's, adding another dimension to the team. 
"Like Julie, Jennie is tough, but in a different way. Jennie is very vocal, and it's nice to have that mix," said Dickey. 
In addition, having two coaches has allowed the team to split into groups at practice to perfect specialty skills, such as hitting and setting. Thus every player gets more touches and more experience, which makes the team as a whole stronger. 
One of the whole team's goals is to earn a regional ranking. With improvements in staff and strategy, the Belles have made progress to that end. 
A tougher schedule that includes such stiff competition as Ohio Northern University and Kalamazoo College will also increase the Belles' region­al and national exposure. Stronczek said that, as a senior and a captain, she has set her sights high on these and other goals for the season. 
"It's my last year, and I have a lot of expectations for myself and for the team," said Stronczek. "We are smaller this year, but that has created more team unity; everything we do is team-oriented." 



~OOM SERVIC~ 
33 Area Restaurants 
Delivered To You Anytime Between 10 am -10 pm 
Macri's Deli • T.G.I. Firday's • Hacienda Coaches • Oriental Express • Wings, Etc. Starlite Pizza • Chili's • Francesco's 

with Hanover 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM SANTIAGO, CHILE INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR SILVIA ROJAS-ANADON  
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 5, 1995 4:30P.M. . 246 DEBARTOLO  
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions.  

• 
Carnival·like 'Interactive' Soccer Festival 

• 
Soccer Shot Accuracy Contests 

• 
Soccer Shot Speed Contests 

• 
Soccer Ball Juggling Contests 

• 
Soccer Skills Oostacle Courses ... and much more ... TO WIN GREAT SOCCER PRIZES! 


WHERE?--------­' Notre Dame campus -open field adjacent and to the north of Alumni Field (off Ivy Road) 
WHO? 
• 
Contests are designed for participants of all ages and all skill levels 

• 
Anyone can anend to watch 

WHEN? • 6:00p.m.: Friday, September 8 


• 6:00 p.m.: Friday, September 15 

Coupons available at South Bend area Papa John's Pizza locations or it's FREE with 
ND/SMC Student ID. 

..--------------------------------­
~­
-
Tuesday, September 5, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 

CAL~\N, II= ~0\l RVI'I 
THESE 510(\(1\'IGS .. .' [Ytf>..R, GRAB 1-1\1-\.' 
DILBM'f 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  26 McGuffey book  
1 Tijuana's locale,  29 Kind of measles  
informally  33 Scrooge's visitor  
5 Pro ­ 35 Circus  

(proportionately) • employee 
9 Amount bet 37 Sooner than 14 Pagan god 38 Furor 15 Decorative 39 Bates, for one 
pitcher 40 Barbra's "A Star 16 Electrical Is Born" co-star pioneer Nikola 41 Secret ending 17 Valley 42 Jockey rival 18 Witch's blemish 43 Buenos­
19 "All hope 44 Fright abandon, ye 46 Exquisite who-here!" 48 Ancient land 
20 Home addition east of the Tigris 21 Century-old time 50 Prepared, as 23 Polk's tomatoes 
successor 53 Roy Rogers's 25 Auction theme song 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
. At-\\) 111t NEIQ\B<1<5' I TOLD '10\J 
NUMBt:RS A.RE (PULL M'{ Rfl.TES 
A LE<;, WILL '(OU ?) '?! Do\J\3l£.\), 
111E \l\-10~£.. RIG\{\;> 
-·· 
SCOTI ADAMS 


sa "Sweet as apple cider" girl 59 TV soldiers of fortune 60 N.F.L. coach Jim 61 Tennis score 62 Newswoman Shriver 63 -even keel 64 Investor's purchase 65 Rear 66 Darn 67 Influence 
DOWN 
1 Bathroom fixture 2-RogersSt. Johns 3 Blackbeard flew 
one 4 Totality 5 Finder's fee 6 "Begone!" 7 Sea swallow a Gager Gilmore 



9 Three Rivers Stadium player 10 Campground denizen 11 --spumante 
12 Swiss painter 13 Roasting items 21 One with kids 
22 Conrad of "The
Kiss" 24 --majeste 27 Thames town 28 Appraised 30 Lehar operetta, 
with "The" 43 Aardvark's meal 53 Easter dinners 
54 Rat--­
55 Balzac's "Le 45 Fix 
47 Hispaniola, e.g. 
--Goriot" 49 1983 Michael 
56 TiptopKeaton film 
57 Kurdish home 51 Minneapolis 
61 Stomachsuburb 
muscles, for 52 Beaut short 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
-
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 5, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a mmute.) HAPPY lliRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A period of soul-searching will help you find a richer, more rewarding spiritual life. Certain career deci­sions cannot be postponed if you hope to secure your financial future. Romance looks exhilarating, filled with lovely surprises! Travel will bring valuable knowledge, increas­ing your chances for lasting profes­sional success. Family love is strong; everyone pulls together in times of crisis. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: cartoonist Cathy Guisewite, comedian Bob Newhart, actress Raquel Welch, football play­er Willie Gault. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Nothing succeeds like success. Take a small victory and build it into something long-lasting and person­ally fulfilling. Reading books about highly-accomplished people will teach you important lessons. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You are now able to make money through one of the fine arts. Deci­sive action is essential. The profit potential is fantastic as long as you keep your feet on solid ground. Romance soars. GEMINI (May 21-June 20):­Remain flexible. A last-minute change in plan may be necessary. Long-range financial planning will pay off handsomely. Do not rule out any options. Keep on top of your personal goals. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Be more responsible where money is concerned. To accumulate savings, trying putting away a dollar for every two you spend. Use today's positive vibrations to advance your goals. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put romance on hold and set the stage for an important breakthrough. Advance planning will improve your chances for success. You can 
• OF INTEREST 
accomplish more by working on 
your own, away from nagging influ­
ences. 
VIR<;o (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): You 
could he a real speed demon at work 
today. Better apply the brakes if 
uncertain where you are headed! 
Refuse to he sidetracked by other 
people's comments. Put old worries 
and doubts behind you. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): 
Switch directions if you have any 
misgivings about a decision. Follow 
your instincts; they are on target. 
Coming on too strong in a romantic 
situation would be a mistake. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Do not take your success or wealth 
for granted. You worked hard to 
obtain them. Retain them! Burying 
the hatchet with loved one helps you 
rejoin a charmed circle. Longtime 
friends will rally around. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ); Guard against exhaustion from the daily treadmill. Once you get better organized, share the work­load. An occasional rest break boosts your energy level. At lunchtime. go shopping or meet a friend. Share some laughs. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Perfect your managerial skills by running your own business. Start small but with a blueprint for the future. Experts can suggest ways to reduce your overhead. Help a friend in need without acting resentful. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have an opponunity to get in on the ground floor of a new enterprise. Investigate the pros and cons before taking the plunge. Keep your sense of humor if someone gives you a hard time. 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): Do not let your ego get in the way of a nifty achievement. Show a becom­ing modesty when your efforts are praised. New friendships result from your involvement in a community or charity event. 
The Top of the Gorch Pool League has an or­ganizational meeting Wednesday September 6 at 7:00 
p.m.in the Gorch Games Room. 
1
Shenanigans Auditions will be held Wednesday, September 6 and Thursday, September 7. Callbacks will be Friday afternoon. If you sing. dance, or play an instrument then don't just act like a shenanigan, be a Shenanigan! Sign up on Activities Night, or call 1· 5896 for more information. 
A new, exciting opportunity is available for pre· medical students to explore careers In medicine through weekly rotations through various depart· ~ents of Memorial Hospital. In addition, the club will be hosting various guest speakers from Memorial to provided further insight and to help interns integrate weekly experiences with current issues in medicine. Applications will be available at Activities Night. 
•MENU 
·­

Notre Dame 
·':::q:_:: .. ~l:t"i· 
NORTH SOUTH Scalloped Stir Fry Tortilla Soup Homestyle Chicken Stir Fry Chicken 
. Turbot Almondine Vegetarian Quiche · 
.. 
··Saint Mary's 
· Italian Spaghetti . Vegetarian Dumplings Brussel Sprouts 
31 Indy 500's Luyendyk 32 Eliot of "The Untouchables" 33 It's stuck in beach sandals 34 Contain 36 Miniplateau 39 Corday's victim 40 Pass, as a forged check 42 Francis of Assisi, e.g. 

The Observer 
. Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City-------State ____ Zip._______ 
-


SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, September 5, 1995 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

Blue Demons denied 
head soccer coach's day was Koloskov and drove towards
Irish tally an 

much more enjoyable, as he got DePaul goalie Rogers, before to see his team put on a bril­popping the ball up over
8-0 shutout in liant display of high~caliber soc­Rogers' head and racing in to cer, complete with beautiful knock the ball"home. headers, splendid' footwork, By the time the first half had

season opener 

and scoring, scoring,·scoring. come to an end, the Irish had · Six different playe·rs notched jumped to a 5-0 lead, essentialc goals for the Irish; 'including ly ending the game in the first
By DYLAN BARMMER 

seniors Josh Landman and Bill 45 minutes of play. 
Spons Writer 

Lanza, who each collected a The Irish dominated the sec­pair. . .. ond half as well, and coachIt was a long day for Ryan Defensively, the· t_Bam was Mike Berticelli used the bigRogers. The DePaul goalkeeper 
also a great success, as the lead to shuffle several playerswas forced to give up over two Notre Dame defense limited the in and out of the game. 
and a half hours of his time 

Blue Demons to a ·mere two Lanza saw action in the first
Sunday afternoon so that he 

shots on goal. 14 minutes of the second half,
could face a barrage of shots 

The scoring began early for notching his second goal of the from the Notre Dame men's 
the Irish, when senior Bill game when he scored off a 
soccer team. 

Lanza streaked in from the left breakaway, pushing the IrishTwenty-one shots came and side before crossing 'the ball in lead to 6-0. 
went, and when Rogers' work front to junior. ·Kons.tantin Lanza left the game havinghad come to an end, he was left 

Koloskov, who pramptly buried played a little under 45 min­staring at a scoreboard which it in the lower right 'corner of utes, and managed to recordread Notre Dame: 8, DePaul 0. 
the net. two goals and three assists inTalk about a thankless job. 
Lanza's magic struck again that time.
Perhaps less thankless is 

less than four min_utes later, "I was excited to be back outMike Berticelli's job. The Irish 
when he received the ball from there," said Lanza after the 

Konstantin Koloskov contributes a header in the Irish trouncing on Sunday. 
• fOOTBALL . '·~· . 

Irish recoveringJrom upset 
-· 
By MIKE NORBUT tent team," he .continued. moved the ball and then turned Sports Editor "We're definitely not ·a big play it over. If this continues, it team, so to be successful, we could be a very long year." In an attempt to pick up the 
have to be consistent.'' But on defense, the Irish need pieces left by Northwestern's 
Consistency is what ~he Irish to get the big play. purple truck Saturday, Notre ''We're not going to be a dom­Dame started their preparation 
inating defense," defensive co­for Purdue with a renewed 
ordinator Bob Davfe said. "One sense of optimism. 
little breakdown, and the guy"What's important now is 
can go 20 yards. We don't have 
how we react," Irish head 

that one guy to carry the load, coach Lou Holtz said. "We're 
so we have to have all eleven going to get back up. We have 
guys playing together." to play eleven games. We may 
The proble·m Saturday was go 0-11, but we ain't gonna for­
that too many big plays were feit." 
allowed. 

Holtz came to a realization "o'n defense, they had eleven following Monday's practice, 
plays in whi~h ihey 212 yards,"putting his keys to success into 
Holtz said. "In the other 53,
very simple terms. "We either are going to be a · see FOOTBALL I page 13 big play team or a very consis­

game. "This team is very tal­ented, and can finish goals. There are so many confident, we~l-rounded players on this team, and we are very deep off the bench." 
. Tbe final two goals of the 
· game were scored by senior midfielder · Landman, who B'erticelli put at forward for most of the second half . 
. 'Tthought we played real well today," commented Berticelli. · "We moved the ball well, creat­·ed .a lot of good scoring chances, and we got some real 
· goi:>d finishes. Bill Lanza is a major fact9r for us, and I was real pleased with the way he played, as I was with the entire ream's play. The team showed greaJ intensity and focus to­day." 
Berticelli was also pleased 
·with the play of his freshman, especially midfielder Matt Johnson, who made his debut in the Irish starting lineup. 

"The freshmen played real well in this game. Johnson played like an upperclassman today, and Matt Mahoney and Benjamin Bocklage played real tough as well.," Berticelli said. "Mark Dolan, Philip Murphy and Greg Velho all looked good when they were out there." 
If any negative can be gleaned from the game, it would have to be the injury that Mahoney sustained with a little over five minutes remaining in the game. Mahoney left the field limping, and the nature and severity of his injury is uncertain as of now. 
Notre Dame's next game is Friday night, September 8, when the Irish host Valparaiso at 7:30. One can only wonder what their goalie will be think­ing. Perhaps he should talk to Ryan Rogers. 


Football Women's Soccer 
• Saint Mary's Volleyball 
at Purdue 
at Indiana 
see page 14
September 9, 2:3.0 EST • 

Bloomington, ·IN 
.· September7;7·PM
Volleyball


SPORTS 
Big Four Classic 

• Cubs beat Rockies in Wtld Card ra~e 
Bloomington, IN 

Saint Mary's .Soccer 
September 8 & 9 

at Calvin September 6 
see page 12
at a 
Men's Soccer 

Saint Mary's Volleyball 
• U.S. Open results
vs. Valparaiso 

. at Manchester September 5 
September 8, 7:30 EST 

vs. Calvin September 7, 6 PM 
see page 11
GtANl! 





