--~--­

Thursday, September 7, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 14 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MAHY'S 
ASA condemns university GLND/SMC position 
By DAVE TYLER News Editor 
The American Sociological Association (ASA) passed a res­olution at its annual conference which "strongly deplores" the actions the Notre Dame administra­tion took in dealing with Gay and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's Hallinan College (GLND/SMC) last spring. The ASA held its business meeting on August 22 where the resolution was introduced, according to Maureen Hallinan, a Notre Dame sociology profes­
sor and current president of the ASA. The resolution is be­lieved to be the first passed by an outside body chastising the University administration for its stance in the GLND/SMC con­troversy. 
GLND/SMC was told last February by University officials that it would no longer be al­lowed to meet in the University Counseling Center. The news sparked debate over GLND/SMC's status as a campus group. Campus bodies including the Faculty and Student Senates, the Campus Life Coun­cil, Graduate Student Council, and the Hall President's Council criticized the University's ac­tions, and several large protests were held on campus during the spring months. 
The administration, for its 
part, maintained that in refus­ing GLND/SMC meeting space on campus it was adhering to a long-standing policy of not granting funds or space to un­recognized groups. It holds that GLND/SMC cannot be recog­nized as an official campus group because GLND/SMC's be­liefs are philosophically incon­sistent with the Roman Catholic Church's teaching. 
The resolution was intro­duced by members of the Gay and Lesbian Caucus of the ASA and may have been drafted by a Notre Dame alumnus, said Hallinan. The ASA is the lead­ing membership organization for American sociologists, with over 14,000 members, five thousand of whom attended this August's conference. 
While not a binding piece of legislation, the adopted resolu­tion does represent the majority view of the governing council of the ASA, which makes the body's policies. 
The language of the resolu­tion noted that the ASA's code of ethics calls for sociologists to respond against acts of discrim­ination on university campuses. The resolution goes on to say that the ASA "strongly de­plores" the action the adminis­tration took in denying GLND/SMC on-campus meeting space and official recognition and calls on the University offi­cials to formally recognize GLND/SMC as a campus group. 
The resolution's introduction came as a surprise to some members of the association. 
"It took everyone by sur­prise," said Hallinan. "We had no idea that it would be intro­duced." 
Director of Public Relations and Information Dennis Moore said the resolution demon­strates a misunderstanding of the University's position. 
"There is always a tendency to equate concern for members of the gay and lesbian commu­nity with recognition for GLND/SMC," said Moore. 
"The language was amend­ed," Hallinan said. "We sug­gested a change from the term 'sanction' which has legal con­notations, to 'strongly deplore,' to convey our feelings." The governing council voted unani­mously to adopt the resolution, with one abstention. 
Hallinan said the vote repre­
see ASAI page 4 

'Coaches' playing tonight 
Play celebrates Rockne, Lombardi and Bryant in benefit performances 
By MARY KATE MORTON Associate News Editor 
Washington Hall opens its doors tonight to start its season with the first performance of "Coaches -Off the Field with Knute, Vince and the Bear." The two-act play chronicles the lives of former football coaches Knute Rockne, Vince Lombardi and Paul "Bear" Bryant. Buddy Farmer, the author, played under Bear Bryant in 1961. He has constructed the play as a respectful yet honest reflection of the lives and careers of the three coaching legends. 
The Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley is sponsoring the production and plans to donate all proceeds to the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation. The Foundation 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
KnuteRockne (above), Vince Lombardi and Bear see COACHES/ page 4 Bryant are remembered in "Coaches." 
Parseghian fights different battle 
By MARY KATE MORTON Stadium, coaching legend Ara Foundation. Associate News Parseghian will launch a per­Parseghian began the Foun­Editor 
sonal crusade on the Notre dation when he discovered 
Dame campus when the play that three of his grandchildren 
After 11 "Coaches" opens at were diagnosed with seasons of Washington Hall tonight. The Niemann-Pick Type C (NP-C) fighting foot­proceeds of the play, about fel­Disease. NP-C is a genetic dis­ball battles low coaches Knute Rockne, order that inhibits the metabo­on the field Vince Lombardi and Paul lizing of cholesterol, ultimately of Notre "Bear" Bryant, will benefit the D a m e Parseghian Ara Parseghian Medical 
see NP-C/page 4 
• fACUlTY SENATE 
New agenda stresses measures to improve 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor and JIM KELLY News Writer 
After offering a brief sum­mary of last year's business, Father Richard McBrien, chair of the Faculty Senate, pre­viewed this year's agenda at the Senate's first meeting of the year last night. 
McBrien outlined the Senate business for the upcoming year, while at the same time acknowledging its potential to change according to concerns of members of the Senate. "That which follows here is by no means finally fixed," he said. 
McBrien then listed several topics to be dealt with in upcoming Senate meetings. 
"Accountability," he. said, "will be carried over from last year," as a reminder of the Senate's primary purpose -to preserve the "academic integri­ty and future of the University," while honoring its "claim to Catholicity." 
Another item on the Senate's agenda is the continuation of the Senate's Self Study, a for­mal examination of the Senate by its members. McBrien asked for the Senators' input, espe­cially in the areas of atten­dance and times of the meet­ings. 
Other points to be discussed at future meetings include staff salaries and levels of respon­sibilities, the North Central As­sociation accreditation report, and the status of the Senate's past resolutions. 
In an effort to improve com­munication within the Senate, McBrien urged openness amongst Senate members, stressing that communication should be "even more pro­nounced than it has been in the past. 
"There is no 'inside group' within the Senate," McBrien said, "other than members who have been elected to various committees." He encouraged the Senators to use e·mail "to enhance communication throughout the year. 
"Whatever we do, we shall do it in the most prompt. efficient, and fair-minded manner pos­sible," McBrien concluded about the committee's plans for the 1995-96 school year. He asked the Senate for its most "constructive and effective par­ticipation in the life and gover­nance of Notre Dame." 
Committee recommends Packwood's expulsion 
By LARRY MARGASAK Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Senate Ethics Committee voted unanimously Wednesday to recommend that Sen. Bob Packwood be expelled for sex­ual and official misconduct, an extraordinary decision that the Oregon Republican called "totally and absolutely outra­geous." 
The committee's three Re­publicans and three Democrats said in a strongly-worded state­ment that the panel "strenu­ously urges, and fully expects" the full Senate to vote to expel Packwood. 
Packwood ducked a question about whether he would resign. 
"I want to think about this for a minute and I want to talk to some people and I am not going to make instantaneous deci­sions," the senator told re­porters before the committee announced its decision. 
If the required 67 senators do not vote for expulsion, the ethics committee said it would propose a censure, loss of Packwood's Finance Committee chairmanship and a loss of se­niority. 
The committee said Pack­wood should be expelled be­cause: 
-He tried to obstruct the committee's inquiry by "with­holding, altering and de­stroying" his diaries. The com­mittee harshly described the alterations as illegal and a crime against the Senate. 
-He abused his position "by repeatedly committing sexual misconduct" between 1969 and 1990. 
-He deliberately tried to en­hance his personal finances by trying to get his estranged wife a job from individuals with an interest in legislation. 
Packwood denied that he al­tered his taped diaries when he learned the committee would subpoena them. He did admit that he altered copies of his di­ary tapes -but not the origi­
see SENATE/page 4 

Photo by Associated Press 
The Senate Ethics Committee recommended yesterday that Sen. Bob Packwood, shown here in 1992, be expelled from the Senate. 

The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 7, 1995 
• WORLD AT AGLANCE 
Police clash with anti-nuclear protestors in Tahiti 
PAPEETE, Tahiti bring flights to a halt Wednesday 
Slinging chains and beating  France sets off  
police shields with metal pipes,  nuclear blast  
demonstrators brawled with  
police on Papeete's airport run­ 
way Wednesday in the frrst vio­ 
lent protest of France's new  
nuclear tests. Two policemen  
and two protesters were hospi­ 
talized,  the  French  High  
Commissioner's  office  said.  
Russia and France's Western  
allies, meanwhile, added to  
international criticism of the  
decision by President Jacques  
Chirac  to  end  a  3-year-old  
moratorium and set off the blast  
Tuesday  beneath  a  remote  
South Pacific island. Protesters  

chained themselves to French embassies in Finland, Austria, Spain and Denmark. The environmental group Greenpeace said protests were being held across Europe, and in Japan, Argentina and the United States. Opposition has been especially fierce in Papeete, Tahiti, the French Polynesian capital about 750 miles northwest of the nuclear test site at Mururoa and Fangataufa Atolls. About 1,000 demonstrators -all supporters of Polynesia's Independence Party -dashed over scrub land to reach the main runway of Papeete's airport and 

Wilson: Dole watering down welfare 
WASHINGTON 
California Gov. Pete Wilson today accused Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, his Republican presidential rival, of bowing to Senate liberals to fashion a "watered-down version" of the cur­rent welfare system. In his most point­ed attack on the GOP front-runner, Wilson accused Dole of letting the Senate become the "graveyard for the 
Contract With America" on welfare, tax cuts, crime and balancing the budget, all of which are areas where the House passed strong legislation this year. The Senate is still debating most of them, and has rejected a proposed constitutional amendment to balance the budget. The California governor announced that he was rejecting conditions the Clinton administration sought to attach to a federal waiver that would allow the state to cap pay­ments to women who have additional children while on welfare. Wilson last week formally launched his cam­paign and apparently has decided to make a full-bore assault on Dole, the leader in public opinion polls on the GOP presidential rivals. 
4-Year-Old dubbed 'Public Enemy' 
NEW YORK 
When nature called, 4-year-old William Schlesinger an­
swered -and so did security in Central Park, turning a 
piddling problem into a tour of city bureaucracy for his 
grandmother. Nancy Stein has gone through the adminis­
trative looking glass since May 23, when two scooter-rid­
ing officers watched her desperate grandson relieve him­
self behind a bush and handed her a $50 ticket. "I 
couldn't believe this was happening," Stein said Wednes­
day, recalling the day she was ticketed. "I guess I was in­
credulous. I guess I was in shock." The shock gave way 
to comic disbelief over the next four months as Stein 
discovered that vindication involved paying a $50 fme ... 
and chasing down documents ... and going to court ... 
and there's still no end in sight. "For 50 bucks, this is a 
lot of fun," joked her husband, Edward McDermott. "It's 
better than Broadway." 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather~forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 7. 60s 
FRONTS: 
............................................. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

H L Ea ESI !Til 0 IZ3 § 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
VJ.t AuocliJted Pre811 

t anta 85 66 oum us 70 59 Baltimore 80 66 Dallas 87 67 68 Boston 70 61 Denver 80 54 67 Calgary 73 55 Las Vegas 100 77 Philadelphia 77 67 
V"IS Associall>d Pross GtaphicsNot 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Chicago 66 52 Miami 86 76 St. Louis 73 57 
morning. The protesters, includ­ 
ing some children, sat down,  
sang songs and held up pro­ 
independence and anti-nuclear  
signs. "Peace, freedom, love.  
Think of our children. French  
The blast  take your bombs and go out for  
*' Took place at 12:30 p.m. (5:30 EDT) In atunnel bored  God's sake," one sign read. Ten minutes later, about 200 riot  
1,800 to 3.000 leal below  police appeared carrying clubs,  
Mururoa.  shields and tear-gas launchers.  
'* Equalled less than 20,000  They marched down the runway,  
tons o1 TNT. By comparison, the atomic bomb that destroyed Hiroshima was  ordering the protesters to dis­perse. When they didn't move,  
equal to about 15,000 tons  police fired tear gas canisters  
ofTNT.  .  that obscured the  area  with  
AP  smoke. About 30 demonstrators,  
some of them wearing helmets  

and swinging pipes and chains, broke through the French cordon and tried to storm aboard an Air Tahiti flight bound for Los Angeles and Paris. They fought with police in riot gear at the foot of the boarding steps but were blocked from boarding the plane. The passengers were evacuated and fled the airport. Demonstrators kicked one policeman repeatedly as he lay on the ground. One protester was injured when he picked up a tear gas grenade and it exploded in his hand, and anoth­er had a head injury. 
Quebec to vote on independence 
TORONTO 
Mixing poetry with propaganda, Quebec separatist leaders unveiled a declaration of independence Wednesday that they hope voters will approve in a sover­eignty referendum expected late next month. Read aloud at a televised ceremony, the document is intended to be the preamble to a soon-to-be-introduced bill that will set the referendum process in motion. Opinion polls show voters in the province evenly divided on whether to cre­ate an independent state. "We, the people of Quebec, through the voice of our national assembly, proclaim: Quebec is a sovereign country," concluded the preamble. It was greeted with a standing ovation from 1,000 of the province's nationalist elite who packed into a Quebec theater after running a gauntlet of anti-independence hecklers waving Canadian flags. The premier of the province, Jacques Parizeau, fought back tears as he joined the applause while an image of Quebec's flag was projected on stage. The preamble was drafted by a com­mittee of writers and politicians based on thousands of submissions from the public. "It defines what distin­guishes us from other people," said Monique Vezina, of the National Commission on the Future of Quebec. 
Top party-school bans beer 
SOUTH KINGSTOWN, R.I. 
There's no more BYOB at URI. A week after it was 
named the nation's top party school by an annual guide, 
the University of Rhode Island banned alcohol at student 
events on campus. "We cannot build the new culture for 
learning to which we aspire in an environment which is 
depressed and dampened every day by the impact of 
alcohol and drug abuse, and we should not, and we can­
not, hide from that reality any longer," President Robert 
L. Carothers said Wednesday in outlining the ban during an assembly. Students who are 21 or older can have alcohol in their rooms, but there will be none allowed at fraternity parties, homecoming events and other student activities. First offenders face fines of $30 to $50 and second offenders fines of $30 to $100. A third offense will result in a two-semester suspension. Still, Nathan Maine, a business major, said, the policy "will irritate people. Drinking is part of a college experience." 
Thursday, September 7, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
'Stepping' into the unknown 
By STEPHANIE VILLINSKI addition to receiving national kept her priorities clear from and NICOLE PASCUA research grants, Callahan has the beginning. News Writers published her work in "The "I always put my family and 
Accounting Review" as well as God first in my life," said Calla­
As members of the Saint several finance journals. han. Mary's Community entered "Twenty years ago, I would It was obvious that Calla­Stapleton Lounge to hear the have been the one least likely han's message appealed to the first of a series on "Women, to become a professor at Notre crowd. Faith, and 
Dame," said Callahan. "Professor Callahan's presen­Business," She began her life in poverty, tation was motivational they didn't but through faith in God and because she talked about the realize they commitment to her goals, she important role faith can play in were "step­persevered, receiving her doc­the life of a working mother. It ping into the torate degree in accountancy. struck a personal cord," said unknown." She then went on to become the Linda Timm, vice president of 
Yesterday, first African-American woman Student Affairs at Saint Mary's. sponsored by to be tenured at the University "Her life was so influenced by
Callahan
the Center of Massachusetts, Amherst. her faith. It gave me such a F o r "God always knows what's good feeling that I'm not the Spirituality, Notre Dame profes­best in our lives," said only one who feels religious be­sor Carolyn Callahan presented Callahan. liefs should be a strong factor her lecture entitled "Stepping In 1991, due to her parents in life," said freshman Kelley into the Unknown: The Value of failing health and a strong feel­Penza. Faith and Commitment." Using ing that God wanted her to Callahan ended her presenta­her own life and personal expe­move on, she returned to the tion with one last word about rience as the basis of her Midwest and joined the faculty faith. speech, Callahan enlightened a at Notre Dame. "I find joy in stepping into the crowd of about 65 Saint Mary's Callahan addressed the young unknown. However, one never students, faculty, and friends women, telling them not to be steps into the unknown if one on how to incorporate religious discouraged by the adversity of has faith in God," said faith in one's career and per­the business world. Callahan. sonal decisions. "Honesty and integrity are The lecture series continues 
Callahan is the Associate Pro­still present," said Callahan. through Sept. 27, every fessor and KPMG Peat Marwick When asked how she juggled Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. Faculty Fellow at the her family, faith and career so Admission is free and everyone University of Notre Dame. In successfully, Callahan said she is welcome. 
CaDlpus Ministry adds new location 
By BRIAN LAUDEMAN 
News Writer 
Students seeking spiritual advice or religious informa­tion will soon have a new place to go; Campus Ministry is scheduled to open a new office in LaFortune Student Center later this month. 
The opening of the office, to be located on the first floor in O'Hara Lounge next to the Information Desk, has been delayed as Campus Ministry officials wait for doors to be installed to provide privacy for staff and clients. 
Once the office opens, a staff of students and people from Campus Ministry will rotate through the office from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. It will also be available for any small meet­ing arranged with Campus Ministry. 
The services offered at the new site will be the same as those found at Campus Min­istry's other three locations in Badin Hall, the Fischer­O'Hara graduate offices, and the library concourse. 
The focus of the new office, according to Kate Barrett, Di­rector of Religious Education, will be to attract off-campus students. Barrett hopes they will use this accessible loca­tion not only to learn of ser­vices but to receive religious information that might not otherwise find its way to them. One service includes the organization of Sunday Masses at students' homes. 
The driving force behind the new office was Father Pat Neary, director of special programs for Campus Ministry. 
Father Bob Dowd, assistant director of Notre Dame Encounters and Retreats, hopes the new site will seem inviting amid LaFortune's laid back atmosphere. The sheer amount of people that use the student center appealed to the Campus Ministry. 
"I think Campus Ministry's responsibility is to go to where the people are, not to just sit and wait," Father Dowd said. 
US officials with Clinton soaked, ignored outside speech 
By TERENCE HUNT women activists in this village -were left waiting outside in a of the women was "indefensi­could have accommodated a Associated Press outside Beijing. chilly rain for a half hour. ble." large crowd. Hundreds of The first lady got VIP treat­The scene spotlighted some of Mrs. Clinton thanked them women, clad in ponchos or HUAIROU, China ment on her arrival for a the logistical problems and ha­Wednesday for their persever­clutching umbrellas, struggled 
American officials stranded in speech at a theater-turned-con­rassment that have affected ance. "You did not give up. You to get in the theater gates and a rain-soaked crowd were ference center. But other mem­thousands of women, meeting did not stay away. You are through a crush of people at shoved around by Chinese se­bers of her party -including separately from the Fourth playing an important role in metal detectors. curity forces Wednesday, mar­Donna Shalala, the secretary of World Conference of Women 30 this conference," she said. Shalala and Lord, riding to ring Hillary Rodham Clinton's health and human services, and miles away in Beijing. Mrs. The rain resulted in Mrs. Huairou on a press bus in Mrs. trip to show solidarity with Winston Lord, the assistant sec­Clinton, in a speech a day ear­Clinton's appearance being Clinton's motorcade, were de­
retary of state for the Far East lier, had said China's treatment moved inside from a field that posited outside the crowd. 

Toppings
.99 Onions • Green Pepper • Beef Pepperoni • Mushrooms Black Olives • Ham
+tax 

Cheddar Cheese • Hot Peppers Sausage • Bacon • Pineapple 
Store Hours 
Sunday -Thursday 
4:30 thru Midnight 

Friday -Saturday 
4:30 thru 2:00 am 

(Open till 3:00 on football weekends) 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 7, 1995 
Coaches 
continued from page 1 
is dedicated to finding a cure for Niemann-Pick Type C Disease, which inhibits children from metabolizing cholesterol. Three of Parseghian's grand­children suffer from this fatal disease. 
"What better way for us as individuals to thank Ara for his glorious chapter in Notre Dame Football than to present a ter­rific play about his sport to ben­efit his foundation," said Tim McBride of the Notre Dame Alumni Club of Saint Joseph Valley. 
Set in a locker room in the la$t years of the men's lives, the tl}ree legel}.~ ~elive. their. glory days and reflect on the numer­ous emotions -love, hate, fear -that their jobs brought into their lives. According to the Los Angeles Times, the play is a poignant comedy about foot­ball, people, and the qualities that make us who we are. 
"Coaches" premiered last fall at the Company of Characters Theater in Studio City, Califor­nia and was selected as a fundraiser for the California Special Olympic Games in 1994. The cast list includes Herb Mitchell as Knute Rockne, Cosimo Canale as Vince Lorn­
NP-C 
continued from page 1 
damaging the nervous system. Frequently striking children, the progressive, degenerative NP-C is always· fatal. 
Presently, there is no treat­ment for Niemann-Pick Type C. Since it involves the rapid dete­rioration of the body, scientists thus far have not been able to keep up with its course. Parseghian's Research Founda­tion, which is volunteer and non-profit, has dedicated itself to finding the defective gene that causes the disease so that a treatment and cure can be found. 
"We are in a race against time... I will not accept this situation without a fight, " stat­ed Parseghian in a pamphlet explaining his organization. 
With increased funding, such as the revenue brought in from the "Coaches" performances, the time period for isolating the gene may be shortened and sci­entists may grow closer to a cure. 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
nals -after he gave the origi­nals to his lawyers. 
The copies were altered, he said, because they contained "personally or politically em­barrassing information" and he feared they would be leaked. 
"Every original word in the diaries was turned over to the committee voluntarily," he said. "When there was a sub­poena, I gave the Justice De­partment simultaneously the originals and the copies .. . so the committee cannot say in any way that it was ob­structed." The Justice Depart­ment later gave the diaries to the committee. 

The ethics committee vice chairman, Democrat Richard B'ryan of Nevada; said in an in­terview, " It's not the sort of thing that one takes any per­sonal satisfaction in doing. And yet I believe that the over­whelming body of evidence ... was of such sufficient import that expulsion was the appro­priate course of action." 
bardi and Buddy Farmer as Bear Bryant. 
The cast brings an impressive repertoire to Notre Dame, in­cluding a Drama-Logue Critics Award for Mitchell's portrayal of Rockne and numerous tele­vision and film credits. 
All performances are in Washington Hall at 8 p.m.; this evening's show is exclusive to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. Mter Friday and Sat­urday's performances, the Na­tional Notre Dame Alumni As­sociation will sponsor a recep­tion in the LaFortune Ballroom. All audience members are in­vited to meet the cast and Parseghian himself. 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. Prices are $10 for the student show and $50 for the Friday and Saturday night shows and reception. 
FLOWERS DELIVERED rS17 DAYSrSl 
ASA 
continued from page 1 

sents a clear statement on the part of the ASA. "ASA supports the right of gays and lesbians to form a group and have recog­nition by a university. We are supportive of all students' rights." 
The tone of the resolution, Hallinan believes, conveys a de­sire to see all universities be­come "safer places for students of all ways of life." 
News of the resolution came 
as somewhat of a shock to 
things that campus groups concerning that group," he were saying earlier this year. said. 
"If someone had told me John Blandford, co-chair of about this, I would have sug-GLND/SMC, attaches great sig­gested different wording," con-nificance to the ASA's resolu­tinued Williams. "The Universi-tion. ty's record on discrimination "This is the first tangible evi­proves we do a lot of good dence that the University's in­things in certain areas. The transigence of not incorporat­GLND/SMC stand detracts from ing GLND/SMC is having an ef­that record and overshadows a feet on the University's reputa­lot of the good things the Uni-tion," he said. versity does. Blandford believes this an­
"The University wholeheart-nouncement and any future ac­edly continues to try to find tions taken by academic or pro­ways to better serve our gay fessional groups "may have an and lesbian community. But effect on the quality of faculty recognition of GLND/SMC won't and students that Notre Dame happen for historical reasons can attract." 
Richard Williams, chairman of ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 
the Sociology Department. 

"This came out with no prior knowledge on our part," said Williams. "It's an interesting sign that a national academic association is saying the same 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

C/ocktower Square ALL MA.JOR CREDIT Phone Answered 

51400 US 31 North South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277-1291 or 1-800·328-0206 
e Dame Club ,phValley 
/;'( 

& 
Thank Heavens! No more Maria Concheeta! 
HaPPY 21st jen! 
Love. Dad. Mom. Mark and Tab 
l;;;;;,;;;.;;;r~...-..;.;;;;;oo;;;; 

present 
Mail to: ·coacl....-Tickals • Washlnglon Hall, Univol'Sily of Notre Damo, Natre Dome, lN 46551>. Make eheake payable ta: Univmlty al Notre Dorno ;J Visa ;J Mutarcard Card # ----­

__of tickets x $50 each =$~--total. Performance: 0 Friday, Sepl 8 0 Saturday, Sept. 9 
Thursday, September 7, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Yeltsin attacks public officials 
By ANGELA CHARLTON 
Associated Press 
Slamming civil servants for corrup­tion and stalling re­forms, President Boris Yeltsin called in a 

Yeltsln

s p e e c h Wednesday for a cleansing of the ranks of Russian official­dom. 
The president, looking cheer­ful but speaking harshly, addressed a select audience of government officials, professors and graduate students at the prestigious Russian Academy of Civil Service. 
"We clearly don't have enough professional leaders who have immunity to numer­ous temptations of power," 
TUESDAYSEPT.12 9:45PM 

Fran~,.· is Ford Coppola Presents 
m~~~fml.111:~~~M 

'-World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 

631·7361 

o-ri = 
::I:c::
r=::z 
I ::Z 
;z-< 
C) I» 
-:::J 
-c. 

·N.Y. TIM~I 
TWO 
INFAMOUS QUEERS 
WllH 
NOTHING IN COMMON,, 
STU RillASIIIG AND .WIIWIDEPRESENT :;;;=·
AFILM BY JILL GODMILOW : 
FRI. SEPT.B 7:00PM TIX$6,STUDENTS$4 
AFool There Was (1914) 
MONDAY SEPT.11 7:00PM 



-

ND FINANCE CLUB -­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

FIRST MEETING --­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

TONIGHT -­
-
-
-

7:00PM --­
-
-

The Jordan Auditorium --­
-
-
-

(in the new College of Business --­
-
-
-

Administration Building) --­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

All Club members and interested students are --­
-
-
-

welcome. Important information about Career Night --­
-
-

and upcoming Club actiuities. Please bring $5 dues. --­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

Remember: Career Night on September 26. -­
-
-
-

Top 30 Finance firms attending. --­
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

Yeltsin told the crowd of 1,000 people, who received his com­ments in silence. 
"The central element of this problem is the personnel," he said. "Russia needs a new gen­eration of personnel, especially state officials." 
The audience included the pqwerful Moscow Mayor Yuri Luzhkov, Deputy Prime Minis­ter Sergei Shakhrai, Culture Minister Yevgeny Sidorov and dozens of other prominent lead­ers. 
Yeltsin. a former Communist Party boss himself, criticized resistance to reform and Soviet­style attitudes within the ranks of the country's leaders. 
"The country changed, be­came something different," he said. "But we for the most part are continuing to lead this new Russia in the old ways." 
"Any transformations in so­ciety are doomed to failure without a simultaneous reform of power structures." 
He also condemned corrup­tion and bribe-taking among state employees. 
"I consider it abnormal, even demented, this huge differen­tiation in incomes among public servants," Yeltsin said. 
CINFMAI~K fltFATRFS 
ll'll DIIIUIOOI(II) Z:DU, 4:30, 7:00, 8:30 
AKid II KIJf Arlllri{PG) UD, 3:30, 5:35, 7:40, 9:50 
1118 PDihllll (PG) 1:45, 4:15, 7:18, 8:40 
ll8yloiiiQIDI*(R) 1:26,3:40,6:50,8:00,10:20 
AWllk In Till Cloiiii(PG-13)1:08, m. 5:40,7:65,10:10 
Dr Jay! IIIII Maltyde(PG·13) 1:15,3:15,6:20,7:30,9:66 
liD (G) 1:05,3:10,5:15,7:20,1:20 
~G-13) 1:35,3:45,6:45,7:45,8:45 
Till BllrysJIIBrl Chi(PG) 1:38,3:35,5:25,7:25.8:35 
IIIB' Siege 2(8) 1:10,3:25,6:38,7:50,10:00 
"111'11111 
~1 7:l All 5FArSIJlfOtlE & Pl.l • 110 PA5Sb ~UPW~AitR'l I•C.CEPTEO 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-

Grass not always greener on other side 
By SARAH TAYLOR 
News Writer 

"Step on a crack, break your mother's back," is how the children's rhyme goes. With an increase in the num­ber of sidewalks on the Notre Dame campus, students con­cerned with their mothers' health will have to be wary of where they walk. 
New buildings, worn paths in grass, and repairs have prompted the University to fo­cus efforts on construction of the campus' nearly 25 miles of sidewalks. 
The pedestrian campus will soon expand with more stu­dent housing, according to Director of Facilities and Engineering Mike Smith. 
"There must be sidewalks to link those dorms to the rest of campus," he asserted. 
The creation of these paths begins next year, scheduled for completion in 1997. The addition of new buildings is not the only reason the Uni­versity has added more side­walks, claims the Director of Support Services David Woods. New paths in front of Zahm Hall, between O'Shaughnessy and Cushing Halls, and on the northeast corner of Dillon Hall are the result of what the University saw as a campus necessity. 
"We have to recognize that these are prime theaters for a substantial number of people. People had worn a path. We had to cover it with concrete so that there wouldn't be mud," said Woods. 
Additionally, temporary sidewalks have been installed on both sides of the Administration Building dur­ing its exterior construction. They will be removed and grass will be replanted once the project has been complet­ed, said Woods. 
Repairs and improvements upon older paths will also command attention from the University. Woods estimated that 85 percent of the money spent on sidewalks during the summer of 1995 was used to repair dilapidated paths. 
"We need to repair side­walks that could pose safety problems. We are making sure the walks that we have are usable and people don't get hurt." 
The University spent in ex­cess of $20,000 on repairs last summer; currently, its­goal is to substitute new, more durable concrete side­walks for the older asphalt ones. 
Smith also listed future plans that include the up­grade of all paths in the Main Quad to concrete quality. 
The dilemma faced by the University in considering side­walk construction surrounds the relationship between the campus' natural aesthetics and its practical needs. 
Said Woods, "We are very proud of the green and the beauty of the campus. We try to fmd a happy medium of the beauty of campus and the ne­cessities of everyday life." 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Associate Accent Editor 
Those interested please submit two page personal statement and clips to Krista Nannery in 314 LaFortune by Sunday at 2PM. Journalistic experience is required. 
JAZZMAN's 
NITE CLUB 
525 N. Hill Street 
presents: 
THURSDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
•With lady Melo-"D"Piaying Your Favorite Hip Hop Music To Dance And Party To 
•Both Dance Floors Open Until Close $3.00 Admission With Student ID 
$5.00 Admission Without Student ID Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 pm 

-----~-~ ---~-­
page6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 7, 1995 
Autonomy talks open over Hebron settlement 
then return for talks that were expected to last until Friday in Taba, an Egyptian resort on 
The 0 bserver
the Gulf of Aqaba near Israel's southern border. Before leaving for Egypt, 
is now accepting applications for the following 
Arafat had ordered Palestinians in Hebron to raise 
unpaid positions: flags on rooftops and move government offices next to 
Accent Literary Critic 
neighborhoods of Jewish set­
Accent Music Critic
tlers in an attempt to regain ground, said Mayor Mustafa 
Accent Film Critic 
Natche. Arafat also wants to reverse 
Accent Theatre Critic 
the movement of Palestinians to the outskirts of town. Many 
Experience a plus. bring a one page
complain of harassment by Is­raeli soldiers downtown. 
sample to Krista Nannery in 314 
Arab residents took to the roofs of government and mu-
LaFortune by 2 PM Sunday. 
Friday, September 8 Stepan Courts Co-Ree 6 on 6* 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Music &Refreshments 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadline is Thursday, September 7 at 6:00 PM Sponsored By: 
Office of 


------------------4------~ 
'Independence' celebrated 
Associated Press 

GROZNY, Russia 
Chechen rebel leader Dzhokhar Dudayev marked the fourth anniversary of his home­land's self-proclaimed in­dependence by threatening to bring his "fire and sword" onto Russian soil. 
In an interview with Associ­ated Press Television, Dudayev said Chechnya is "occupied" territory and accused the Kremlin of failing to live up to a promise made in July to with­draw troops. 
He said Russia's war has laid waste to the tiny, mostly Mus­lim republic and Chechens have little left to lose by continuing their fight. 
"What else can we do?" he asked. "No homes, no work, no cattle. And no prospects.··· 
Russian President Boris Yeltsin poured troops into the breakaway republic in Decem­ber to end Chechnya's bid for independence. The war has claimed thousands of lives, but fighting is currently at an ebb. 
Dudayev, who has been in hiding since early in the war, spoke from a secret location on the eve of the anniversary. He planned a clandestine broad-



Class Rings 
are now available for pickup in the Class Ring Office at the Bookstore from 
Tuesday 9I5 -Thursday 9I14 
Hours: Monday -Friday 
9:00am-12:00 pm 1:00pm-4:30pm 
cast to his war-weary nation Wednesday evening. 
In the APTV interview, Du­dayev warned the fighting would spread unless the Rus­sians stopped the war. 
"If the fighting continues, we will advance onto Russian soil, with fire and sword," he said. "We will come. Without a doubt, we will come." 
Although Dudayev's rhetoric is fiery, his representatives have been engaged in on-again, off-again peace talks with 
Amanda Bruntrager 
Happy 21st Birthday! 
Love, 
Mom and Dad, Ray and Tricia 

The Department of Music University Artist Series 
presents 




a.th~rine. mezzo-soprano
testnskz 
with 

(ijerald fjteichen piano 
2:0.0 p.m. 
Sunday, 10 September Annenberg Auditorium 
Tickets available at the door or call (219) 631-6201. $5 general admission $2 for students/senior citizens. 
Russia for months. In July, negotiators signed an agree­ment on rebel disarmament and Russian troop withdrawal, but skirmishes continue. 
In Grozny, the battered Chechen capital, as many as 4,000 people rallied in a central square as Russian troops watched warily. 
"There is no God except Allah and no president except Dzhokhar," said one sign. 
By DAN PERRY 
Associated Press 
TABA, Egypt 

Palestinians took their de­mands for autonomy in Hebron to the streets and to the bar­gaining table Wednesday, start­
ing new talks with Israel hours after a n g r y demonstra­tions against Jewish set­tlers in the West Bank. 


Emerging Peres from 3 1/2 hours of talks, Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres called Hebron, the only West Bank city where Jewish settle~s live among Palestinians, "the hardest is­sue" blocking Palestinian au­tonomy. 
"Hebron is still the obstacle," said Palestinian spokesman Marwan Kanafani. "Hebron was the "subject of the entire meeting today." 
Arafat planned to meet with President Hosni Mubarak in Cairo on Thursday morning, nicipal offices in Hebron on Wednesday, and Hebron's Is­lamic court was moved from the outskirts of the city to a downtown building about 100 yards from a settler enclave, said the chief judge, Taysir Tamimi. 
"Yasser Arafat called me the day before yesterday and asked me to move the court to the old city as soon as possible. We quickly rented a building and moved," Tamimi said. "The plan is to move many more in­stitutions." 
Settlers responded with protests. A group of Jews chanting "Hebron is ours" climbed onto the roof of the Is­lamic Trust, the religious head­quarters for the city, pulled down a Palestinian flag and scuffled with Muslim officials, witnesses said. Israeli soldiers kept the two sides apart. 
"It's a provocation to put PLO flags in different areas of He­bron, something that is against the status quo and against ev­erything that we have arranged in Hebron," said Noam Arnon, a spokesman for the settlers. 


VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, September 7, 1995 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Rtgan Joseph Riley 
Newo Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Pouer Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sporto Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Paui Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presenr the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Bringing you the very best of the 'Brare 
P
eople are always coming up to me on like Warren Murphy, creator of The tebrates, from copapods to goliath bee­campus. after I've published an espe­The legend lives on from the Chippewa Destroyer? Whoever he is, Homer has tles, and I feel that none of us are safe cially jocular column, and asking me on down the stuff. Just listen to this: "Around, while they exist unchecked in the world. impudent personal questions. "Are you To the big lake they call around, Achilles flailed his sword, legs I dream of a future where virtual reality this freaky in real life?" is a common Gitcheegoomee ... and arms cut off amid piteous cries, the will allow us to watch these monstrous one, as are the standard "dude -river red with blood." First-rate! Plus, creatures destroyed by mighty engines, what's your problem?" and "can you from the epic "Wreck of the Edmund it makes me laugh when people are with shining sterile pistons and glossy introduce me to Charles Rice?" Fitzgerald" actually draw on both called "Trojans." That's just the kind of bug-crushing surfaces... and napalm 
Since I'm most often to be found either Canadian geography as well as the guy I am. bombs set in beehives... I tremble with snoring in my carrel or wandering unique cultural contexts of Canadian pleasure at the thought of it. mindlessly around the library, I'm also life. Likewise the lines, QL 362.8924 A often asked what I am reading. Well, Color Treasury of Z674.A2 A Guide to there are a num-At eleven PM the Invertebrates Clandestine Gay
'you might think 

ber of interesting 
old cook came on Meeting-Places in
that title some­

works I have deck. Ijust love inverte­American Libraries perused in my off­and said, brates. From their thing of a joke, given 
hours lately, and "Fellas, it's been adorable inhuman Often when, lacking
Canada's nil contribu­

Josh
I'll save you all good to know ya!" visages to their mind­an Observer, I con­the trouble of ask­less and terrifying tion to world culture ... template the doors and ing me what they are impossible to dead eyes, this vast walls of the rest room
But even the most des­

Ozerskyare. In place of grasp without hav­genus includes some stalls in the library my usual column ing lived through of the most mar­olate and snowbound basement, I am struck this week will be ''"..;.,, the Manwich-and-velous creatures on by all the covert scrib­
of parochial cultures ... 

the first of an the land and in the bling that goes on. Is
------~============~--------Moosehead deso­
I
occasional series: lation of the seas, and this decora­can occasionally pro­there really a secret net­Best of the Hesburgh Library. Canadian nightscape. Lightfoot's legacy tive edition features duce greatness.' work of homosexuals is a complex one, and all Americans will color pictures of having assignations in ML 420.L54 Lightfoot: If You want to grapple with its ambiguities and many of the most toilets near my own? Could Read His Mmd. by Maynard complexities, lest they be accused of be­horrific. You'll meet the candiru, or One often wonders if this sort of thing is Collins ing mere "Rainy Day People," in the vampire catfish of the Amazon, a really a big gag or not, like those "Two poet's deathless phrase. hideous tiny fish who swims up urinary Hot Co-Eds" lines which so often turn have before me a copy of a recent canals and puts out grappling hooks; out to be Father Joyce's home number. study of the life and work of Canada's PA 4025.A2The /Iliad, by Homer sinister ants with vast empires of slaves, Luckily, there exists a volume in the greatest poet. You might think that title (translated by W.H.D. Rouse) thousands of white grubs piled up on Hesburgh library which answers this something of a joke, given Canada's nil one another, and, worst of all, very question. Every gay meeting-place contribution to world culture. I know 1 If you're anything like me, there's noth­grotesquely swollen "honeypot ants" in every American library is there cross­did. But even the most desolate and ing you like better than a good hell­whose bodies function as living store­indexed according to frequency of use, snowbound of parochial cultures, such for-leather adventure story. The back houses for the hive's viscous slime-food. safety, and even gay genre (from water as Canada's, can occasionally produce cover of this paperback calls it "The Nor is there any shortage of close-up sports to role playing). Unfortunately, greatness. And this book, entitled World's Greatest War Novel," and pictures of termites, cockroaches, and the only copy is kept in Hesburgh special "Lightfoot: If You Could Read His believe me, there is enough guts and mantises, each with its own disgusting collections, in the lobby, and must be Mind," has changed the whole way I gore to justify that lofty title. You'll be features, from multiple hairy legs and requested from the librarian. Inquiring think of "The Bard of the Northern on the edge of your seat as you ac­volleyball eyes to twittering mandibles students should not be shy, however! Lights." Although essentially a private company the hero, Achilles, on his and cruel pincers. I hope this guide to some of the fine man-it was Lightfoot, remember, who search-and-destroy mission to find the Or are insects "not your bag?" Then books in our million-volume citadel of wrote "Sundown, you'd better take rotten kidnappers hiding in the city of look at the section on parasitic flat­learning is of use to you. Please feel care/If I lind you've been creeping round Troy. There is little in the way of a bi­worms, mindless lengths of tissue which free to e-mail me if it is not. my back stairs" -the author has man­ographical note on the author, however. exist only to eat better animals from the aged to capture the essence of the in­Is Homer an ex-soldier of fortune, like inside out, and then exit painfully via tersection between Lightfoot's life and Gale Greene, the author of The Five boils, orifices, and tear ducts. The fact Josh Ozersky can be reached by e-mail art. For example, the immortal lines: Fingers. or is he a professional writer is, I sit up at night thinking about inver-at Joshua.A. Ozersky. I @nd. edu. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DDONESBURY 
800PS/&, IT'5 HARIJ 7D&X­
PI-AlN. I JU5TCOULPN'T 
TAl<& ANaTH!RalY OF 
~rrTING IN 7HAT6RJMY toFTU/JrTCHI/116 MIKe 5WMP&V/3R.a&f'6R 
INTO Hl5 BlACI<. Hote/ 
\ 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
"Truth, whether you per­ceive it or not, only brings light into your life." 
-Oprah Winfrey 
--~ 


VIEWPOINT
pageS Thursday, September 7, 1995 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Irish football fans plead guilty of blasphemy 
Negative attitudes aggravate freshman 

l
Dear Editor: am a freshman here at NO, and I just attended my first football game as a student here. As you well know, we lost. Yes, it was disappointing. Yes, it was discouraging. But the way that the student body reacted disgusted me. 
I know you've heard of the term "Fair-weather fans." This is a major understatement in my opinion. During the game, there were tons of ups and d"owns. ·Granted, the down points were upsetting; but that doesn't mean we should stop supporting our team. 
The student body is great at games-don't get me wrong. The spirit is tremendous. I just feel that the team needs our support the most when they are having trouble. If the team isn't playing as well as we all think they should, we shouldn't just give up on them, we should cheer more to encourage them. The students just got totally quiet ifsomething went wrong. 
It's awesome to cheer when 
M
things are going great. That is when everyone really feels like cheering. But when the team needed us most-when they weren't at their best-I feel that we let them down. aybe if we had showed them that we still believed in them, they would've picked up their spirits and in turn their play would have been improved. I don't know if this is actually true, but hey it couldn't hurt. Nobody's per­fect, we all know that. So why does everyone here expect the team to be constantly perfect? Give them a break, OK? 
The negative attitudes have got to go. I know that its disap­pointing to lose. But the team works really hard for this University, and we should appreciate everything they do, not criticize everything they don't. 
Going into the parking lot and hearing people say that they don't even know why they go to games makes me sick. "They suck," they say, "why don't we get a real team... so much for the national championship." 

M
All of a sudden, the team that we love and that is considered the pride of the University is lower that dirt in everyone's eyes. But when we win, every­one wants to be the team's friends. Then everyone runs on the field and hugs the team and thinks they're the greatest. I did think that the way the fans saluted the team as they left was great. I just don't under­stand why their comments afterward had to be so nega­tive. aybe I just had to release my frustration. I don't know. I just wish that the spirit of Notre Dame was a little more consistent. I believe in our team, I admire the hard work they put in, and I think we should compliment them on their effort, not criticize their flaws. I mean, do you think any of us could've done better? 
A DEVOTED FAN 
Tickets buy frustration for students, alum 

Excitement crushes waiting crowd 
l
Dear Editor: am writing in regard to the disgusting display of behavior that occurred Thursday morn­ing at the JACC. Copies of this letter are being sent to the se­curity office and Father Malloy. 
On Thursday morning, many sophomores, in a blatant at­tempt to circumvent the social concept of waiting in line, rushed the doors of the JACC in order to purchase football tick­ets. Being at the front of the line, I and the other members of my party were literally crushed against the glass doors of the JACC. For an hour, I had to brace myself against the door as the crowd periodically rushed forward, even though the doors were not to open until seven. 
This shameful display of sub­human behavior both makes me sick and thoroughly disap­points me as well-these stu­dents, purportedly some of the finest and brightest this country has to offer, acted like animals in some sort of bizarre feeding frenzy. There is no excuse for their actions, rather, they should be ashamed of them­selves-although I sincerely doubt that they will give it a second thought. 
Secondly, when security fi­nally showed up, they did little or nothing to alleviate the sit­uation. The students did not let up until after the doors were opened, and even then main­tained their raucous pushing 
l
and shoving. Whether securi­ty's incompetence was a result mostly of the students' blatant disregard for socially accept­able rules of conduct, or simply their own inability or unwill­ingness to handle the situation I do not know-I blame both par­ties. am disgusted by the behavior of some members of my own class, shocked at the pas­siveness of our security force, and-surprised that no one was seriously injured during this mob scene. I have no sugges­tions to offer; I am simply writ­ing to express my anger about this contemptible debacle. 
BRIAN MILLER 
Sophomore 
Carroll Hall 

Dear Editor: 
I am writing in regards to some disap­pointing events which just transpired while myself and the rest of the Class of 1997 were camping out for football tick­ets. Moments ago, I was just told to remove myself from the lawn chair on which I was comfortably seated. But I am only one of the many students who has been denied one of the few comforts I brought with me tonight. 
Traditionally, this is a night of both fun and bonding-a night for students to revel in being students. It is a memo­rable time, and similar rituals like it go on at campuses elsewhere. 
One striking example is the practice of camping out for basketball tickets at Duke University, something which occurs numerous times during the course of a basketball season. I have heard many stories from friends there­stories of couches, tents, and even beds being hauled outside for purposes of a night's worth of relaxation. 
These items are part of the culture which such an event entails, and as ridiculous as they might seem, they are nonetheless part of the festivities. I highly doubt that any of the students here tonight came with the intention of disturbing the peace. All are here to take part in a tradition, on which is a direct manifestation of the fervor which encompasses life at Notre Dame. I sin­cerely believe that these "ritualistic" events are part of that special something which fosters the Notre Dame mystique. 
Now, perhaps the overriding concern of both administration and Notre Dame Police is the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises. This is indeed a legitimate concern, and I do not find fault with it. However, most do not spend the night in a stupor; rather, most are here to hang out with friends and pass a long night together. 
There is no reason so far as I can see for the mandate just announced via megaphone to " ... remove all furniture from the premises." Furthermore, in my mind, lawn chairs hardly constitute furniture, not to mention, couches have never posed a threat to order in my experiences. It seems absurd that the Notre Dame Police should patrol an potentially subversive pieces of furni­ture. 


However, with all due respect, the ones getting the press should not be the Notre Dame Police who were most likely acting on orders from higher up. 
The students of the Class of 1997 who camped out through the night deserve the praise for maintaining unabated the night. To all members of the Class of '97 as well as those from other class­es: Thanks for coming and keeping alive a great Notre Dame tradition. See you next year, whether you're on a couch or not. 
RYAN LEVY 
Junior 
Saint Edward's Hall 

overnight ticket camp out in search of enthusiasm and good spirit throughout Thursday, September 7, 1995 page 9 

ACCENT 
• CONCERT REVIEW 
By CHRISTIAN STEIN Music Critic 
L
ast night at the Stepan Center, Milwaukee band The Violent Femmes entertained a capacity crowd for close to two hours. Combining with Campus band Tacklebox and their regular tour openers 16 Horsepower, The Violent Femmes created an evening to remem­ber. 
Starting at 8:00 pm was Tacklebox with a five song set that unexpectedly began with just bass and drums because the guitarist/singer forgot to turn on his amp. 
Once the band was in full gear, Tacklebox per­formed well under the "nerveracking" condi­twns. Tacldebox members agreed that it was a great opportunity which they never thought they would have, and hopefully their appearance exposed more people to the campus music scene. 
The crowd's response was difficult to gauge. For most of Tacklebox's performance, the crowd remained relatively stationary but at the same time appreciative of Tacklebox's efforts. All things considered, Tacklebox put on a solid per­formance and were rightfully grateful for the experience. 
Following Tacklebox was another trio, 16 Horsepower, that set the mood for things to come with their Femmes-esque brand of rock. It seemed that as the night progressed the sound quality improved which made for a more enjoy­able show. As 16 Horsepower moved into their set, the anticipation for the Femmes grew as the Stepan Center began to fill to capacity. 
With each song the crowd got more into the music and with the appearance of an upright bass and a banjo, a medley of applause erupted. Finishing with a country style song, 16 Horsepower provided the perfect warm-up for The Violent Femmes. 
The temperature rose at least ten degrees when the headliners walked on stage and the ca­pil.city crowd stood on their seats. The energy level increased after The Femmes briefly con­ferred and broke into song. Chairs were passed overhead in order to make room for dancing and the occasional crowd surfer. 
In contrast to the opening acts, there was a high level of band-audience interaction through­out The Femmes' entire set. At one point The Femmes even stopped in mid song ("Dahmer's Dead") to tell a story. 

Half way through their show The Femmes jammed out crowd favorites "Blister in the Sun" and "American Music," encouraging crowd participation. It came as no surprise that shortly after these songs concert security ejected several rambunctious fans but on the whole, the crowd remained well mannered while thoroughly enjoy­ing themselves. 
Towards the end of their set, The Femmes moved into longer jams of their songs which at times became tedious and repetitive but appealed to the mixed crowd of Notre Dame stu­dents and local kids who came in for the show. 
A few memorable songs included a ten to fif­teen minute version of "People Worry" and "Gone Baby Gone," highlighted by the appear­ance of both a xylophone and a roadie who moonlighted as the band's bassist. 
At this point in the show the intensity level peaked when The Femmes broke into their clas­sic "Kiss Off." During this song they managed to bring four girls up from the crowd to dance on the side of the stage. Extending their thanks to the crowd, The Violent Femmes walked off the stage to thunderous applause. 
After a five minute break accompanied by chanting fans and banging chair backs, The Femmes, tired but willing to slug out a couple more songs, came back out on stage . 
A two song encore including the band's most well known song "Add It Up" as the finale was the crowd's reward for their cheering. Fittingly, the band introduced their final song with a refer­ence to Baltimore Oriole short stop Cal Ripken breaking Lou Gehrig's 2,130 consecutive game streak and telling the crowd that he had to "add it... up!" 
All in all it was a great night for music fans at Notre Dame and it was good to see that the bands involved also had a great time. 
The three hours of music was exceptional and provided the students with an opportunity to be exposed to a band from Notre Dame, an up-and­coming band and a group that has provided a musical voice for our generation for many years. 
Special thanks should be given by all the fans to SUB, Notre Dame Administration, and Notre Dame Security for putting on such a memorable evening. 
Christian Stein's music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 
• ACCENT ASKS••• 
What was your reaction to the Northwestern game? 
"It's fuel for the fire." 
Kathleen McManus, Senior, Pangborn 



"It was still a blast!" 
Tom Bechert, Freshman, Flanner 

"I was devastated..until I got my Blizzard from DQ." 
Brian Klausner, Junior, Flanner 



"Shocking." 
Mario Gutiierrez, Senior, Stanford 

"I think we came in overconfident." 
Ramadan Ameen, Freshman, Fisher 


"Indifference." 
Matt Freeman, Senior, Dillon 
"I felt like it wa a continu­ation of last season. It was sad, but I wasn't too upset because it felt like last year all over again." 
Emily Portune, Senior, Howard 


:ACCENT j 
page 10 Thursday, September 7, 1995 ~ 
• SoFT SCALE SooA 
Pet Shop Boys provide an alternative 
By ROB ADAMS 
Music Editor 
Pet Shop Boys 
Alternative 
*** 
out of five 
T
he concept of B-sides, non-album cuts, and other experimental takes congregating on an album is strange enough, but the fact that this phenomenon has become a recent fad is even more puzzling. Remember, these are the cuts that were not able to make it onto past albums. Why are they so brilliant now? Plus, these albums take all the fun out of paying too much money for CD singles, bootlegs, and other treasures which have one or two songs absent on all other albums. 
Regardless, Great Britain's two somber techno giants, the Pet Shop Boys, have compiled an album which contains 30 songs on two discs spanning their ten-year career. The band which revolutionized the mixture of pop hooks and house music better than anyone this side of New Order have surfaced with Alternative, their second two-disc novel­ty release in as many years. Last year saw the release of Disco, a remix album of old hits and some new releases which is quite possibly the best house compila­tion by one group ever. 
True to their structured fashion, the 
·­
Pet Shop Boys feature all the '80's cuts on disc one and all the '90's cuts on disc two, 15 songs on each disc, and the en­tire work organized in the chronological order of recording. 
Disc One 
*** 

L
ong-winded beginnings, extremely patterned song structures, and more "West End" rejects than you can imagine appear on disc one. Phone bleeps, screams, sirens, and chants have often provided instrumentation for the Pet Shop Boys, but here the experimen­tation with such outlandish wavelengths reaches an uneasy overload. 
Many disc one concoctions have never been close to the Pet Shop Boys' palate and they have the success of their career as a result. Such completely new soundscapes do not fail miserably, but they do fail. The recipe that works on disc one is the same that worked back in the eighties: one tablespoon of a break dancing beat. two cups of funky bass, a pinch of bouncy keyboards, and Neil Tennant's sassy British semi-sing style. 
Songs like "I Get Excited" provide brief yet satisfying moments of Pet Shop Boys' past. The rhythm's syncopation, the sampled moans, and the mid-tempo flow of the song remind of the 1987 "Heart" era. 
"The Sound of the Atom Splitting," a line taken from a Derek Jarman film, is taken from a year later, 1988-the birth of acid house. If acid house is a smart­drink, this song adds ice, some gin, and a twist of lime; its low-budget produc­tion, maniacal approach to an already chaotic musical genre, and non-sensual lyrics make it the least polished track on the disc. 
Disc 1\vo 
**** 

A
mastery of house, clever experi­mentation, and a twisting of elec­tronic instruments to the extreme are all common on disc two. 
Soft trumpets open up a saucy jazz number, "If Love Were All," which could have jumped out of a 1940's lounge scene. It is by no means an achievement in the world of jazz, but it does attain a quality of craftmanship and care which makes the song more than just cheesy dinner fodder. 
Ironically, a remix of "Violence" proves to be the best song on Alternative, having originally appeared on Please, their first release, from 1985. This live version, spiced up at a Hacienda show in 1993, shows Neil Tennant at near-perfect form. His har­mony with the meandering keyboards along with Sylvia Mason-James' back­ground work is superb. 
Little experimentation and fluid key­board work from 1993's Very period appear on "Shameless," a song about how desperately some people want fame. Also from 1993, "Decadence" is a song at a much slower tempo than most 
Ron Sexsmith 
Ron S exsmith 
lnterscopeRecords 
out of five 
**** 

Ron Sexsmith, on his self-titled debut, reminds us that ballads don't have to be loud to tell a story. His subtle way with a hook and a strong natural voice combine to produce a strong, satisfying album. 
Sexsmith's tales are songs that you might write: songs about love he struggles to express ("Words We Never Use"), love he should have expressed ("Several Miles"), a childhood home ("Galbraith Street") and even "From a Few Streets Over," a song about an ice cream man who goes to hell. All contain a writer's flair and clean instrumentation, and are topped off by Sexsmith's clear, honest tenor, the jewel of the album. 
Ah, the voice! It's not perfect; "Secret Heart," the opener, sounds like Jackson Browne with a sinus infec­tion, and "Wastin' Time" is a dangerously competent Pet Shop Boys ' songs, but it features gorgeous guitar licks from Johnny Marr. 
Although they often fall victim to unnecessary sampling, overproduction, and over-the-top instrumentation, the Pet Shop Boys create a grand success with disc two, mainly because of the songs from 1993 and 1994, which can only mean greater things for the future (at least for B-sides). 
Alternative is not recommended for people who are not fans of the Pet Shop Boys, although it will please all of you PetHeads with a comfortable balance between the bizarre and the obvious. It's just unfortunate that you cannot purchase the two discs separately. 
Rob Adams' music reviews appear every Thursday in Accent. 


Sexsmith's voice does run into trouble, not of its own creation. What Sexsmith has in talent, he lacks in charisma; the voice won't carry an album by itself. Producer Mitchell Froom (who also commits some felo­nious keyboard playing throughout the album) obvi­ously didn't want to mess with a good thing, but having Sexsmith's voice drown out his band makes the album sound, at times, like it was recorded in a bar. 
In the end, however, Sexsmith's moments of very human beauty overcome the lousy production work. "Speaking With the Angel" is basically the man and his guitar, makes you wish the whole album was that sim­ple. The chiming guitars and nearly tribal percussion of "Several Miles" give a haunted air to Sexsmith's tale of words-too-late: "Several miles have come between! All for the best it seems/ And just in case you're listen­ing, I'm listening too." 
"There's a Rhythm" is a decent song, but again, Froom's production work nearly obscures that, burying it in a slop of cloudy guitars and overblown choruses. However, an alternate version, the last track on the album, provides a glimpse of what might be in this tal­ented young Canadian's future. Produced by Daniel Lanois, it blends music and voice perfectly, and Lanois' guitar sounds eerily like The Edge, who Lanois has produced with U2. Sexsmith's debut is a simple plea­sure: if he dumps Froom and hires Lanois for the next one, perfection is well within reach. 
-by Kevin Dolan, music critic 

I
n a time when "ballads" contain lines like "Her pla­
Aaron Neville impression. But everywhere else,
centa falls to the floor," delivered as though the 
Sexsmith's pipes are an aural treat. He doesn't wail, he 
singer were being gored during recording, it's easy 
doesn't scream, and he doesn't whisper. It's a natural­
to forget what a ballad used to be: a simple tune that 
ly talented man-on-the-street delivery that betrays real 
tells a story. 
feeling on emotional songs. 
Pavement 
WoweeZowee 
Matador Records 
out of five 
**** 

was a sort of coming out party. And why not? Pavement, fronted by indie rock's favorite sarcastic poet, S.M. Jenkins, epitomizes the slacker attitude, packaged and sold at a mall near you. Indeed Crooked 
.... Rain Crooked Rain was a great record. Record sales were up and Pavement appeared to be on the verge of graduating to the next level of mass acceptance. In the rock classroom, Pavement could be the prankster sitting in the back, with bloodshot eyes, cracking up the class and angering the teacher with sarcastic one-liners. To the satisfaction of its purist fol­lowers, Wowee Zowee, recorded in ten days, offers a new and innovative record which utilizes a number of 
myopic vision of suburbia and all of its backwardness, " ... I'm drowning for your thirst/drowning for your thirst," echoing the late Kurt Cobain's sentiment, "I wish I was like you/easily amused." S.M. is indeed mocking America's easily amused youth culture. 
Those lazy consistent melodic hooks Pavement is noted for back the sinister and sarcastic tone of the vocals. A Pavement record is like one big inside joke. With all of its ambiguities and nuances, Wowee Zowee is a unique record which can only be fully appreciated by sound minds. In what could be a mockery of con­temporary country music, or Pavement's attempt to evince the beauty of the slide guitar, "Father to a Sister of Thought" offers a twangy, country-esque sound. In "flux=rad," S.M. screams "styles, they come and go/but I'm not gonna let youll'm not gonna let youll'm not gonna let you .... " The bitter vocals are matched by a slow and lazy hook providing an appealing polarity of vocal and musical tone. The momentum continues to build in the next song, "Fight This Generation," where 
S.M. appears to be asking American youth to cease 
from placing him on the rock pedestal. Throughout the record there is an element of sonic 
seemingly incompatible musical elements and melts experimentation. Sonic and flighty sounds are strate­though this summer had a great surprise them together forming a truly great record. Wowee gically placed throughout adding a distinct flavor. The Superchunk's Incidental Recordings) and a long Zowee lacks a Sheryl crowing or a Hootie blowing. record culminates with the memorable song "Kennel waited release (Madder Rose's Stop), I have to S.M., the anti-lyricist, begins the record in his usual District." This is Pavement in true and perfect form. A 
go with my favorite band, Pavement. Wowee Zowee, an ambiguity with the line, "There is no castration fear ... " complete musical fusion of melody and sonic elements. early summer release, received mixed reviews from -in what appears to be a serious tone. Perhaps a mock­I'm sure a number of you saw Pavement this summer 
-
fans and critics alike. The alterna-geek nation was ery of the unplugged trend in today's music, "We at the corporate alternative bonanza, lollapalooza, and djsappoin,ted with the lack of buzz clip material, and Dance" is a surprisingly somber acoustic song. You thought, "Hey this band is ok." I think they were equal­for that matter so were the critics. Many felt can't help but laugh. In "rattled by the rush," S.M. ly amused. 
Pavement's last release, Crooked Rain Crooked Rain, unleashes a great line which seems to capture the -by Alex Aguirre, music critic 
Thursday, September 7, 1995 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS page 11 
-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ENJOY THURS 9/7 JOHN KENNEDY SEAMAISIN ORIG&IRISH SONGS, TUNES, STORIES MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4 MISH. 2BLKS S. OF 100 CTR 255-0458 NEED 10 
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9:30 THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR 255-0458 NEED 10 
SAVE THIS AD WEEKEND ROOMS FOR N.D./S.M.C. VISITORS. 
5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES 219-277-2388 
Share your experience! Promote SMC at your alma mater. Come to the V.I.S.A. high school liaison meeting tonight at 5:30 p.m. In Stapleton Lounge or call Bobbi !11 x4587 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: MY DAILY (FRANKLIN) 
PLANNER. CALL SCOTT AT 288­
7281. 
FOUND: A gold ring with other fea­tures. Found last week, about August 29th between Stanford and St. Michael's parking lot, by the Infirmary. Call Francie at X4205 to Identify. 
I lost a sentimental gold chain bracelet late last weekii Please, if 
found, call MARl at X29691 :( Thanks. 
LOST! Gold/Black onyx ring on Fri. 9/1 in back of Apt.1635 Turtle Creek. Great sentimental value. Reward. Carolyn 271-2314. 
WANTED 
Sales Help Needed -Long distance Service needs Reps to sell to students and their families. Can be done part time from room or apartment. Potential for immedi­ate commissions, management bonuses and long term residual income. We offer tremendous value to the customer and training and support for our Reps. Call Mike at 618-521-3620. 
Students wanted to promote the most killer Spring Break Trips on campus. Earn high $$ commissions and free trlpsii Must be outgoing and creative. Call immediately 1· 800-SURFS-UP. 
Part time work for graduate student in electrical engineering. For more info. call Dennis Cooper 237-9665. 
SIHer needed $4.50/hr. Must drive. Non-smoker. Mon. 12-5:30 + 1 Fall weekend. Kids ages 6,8,& 14. 2n­9861 
WANTEDII 
Authentic N.D. Stadium seal 
offered by Athletic Dept. 
I DESPERATELY need to buy one -.but they're SOLD OUT! PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11 Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) M·F 8-5cst (708)325-8700 Thanks. 
Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr. 2:30-6:30 any alt. Must drive. Call 
257-1411 evens. 
WANT ATHLETIC PERSON FOR PERSONAL TRAINER AND MAS­SAGE THERAPIST. WILL TRAIN. 219-462-8943 
Lead Guitarist Looking for Band Call Flynn x-1 007 
FOR RENT 
NICELY DECORATED ROOMS FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS, REASON. RATES, GREAT ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2 MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM 2n-8340. 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6308 HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 232-2595 
Affordable, clean, student apts. Furnished studio, $235 Furnished 1 bedrrn, $270 heat & water included 755 South Bend Ave-1 block from 
N.D. Ave deposit, references 1-800-582­9320 
Need a place to stay for the sum­mer? We are subieHing for Mid­May 96 through August 96 at College Park Condominiums. Call Sarah, Nicole, or Jan for details @ 273-1738. 
HOUSE FOR RENT 1 mile from campus $450 per month Tim x1059 or Nick x0546 
FOR SALE 
Awesome Tailgatersiil NO FIGHT­ING IRISH conversion vanl Runs Great, $1995, Call to seel232-9784 
Pontiac Sunbird 2000, 1984, 4 Dr, automatic, air, tape deck. Very good 'COndition. Recent Goodyear tires, brakes, exhaust system. 28 mpg. 90,000 mi. $1,350. 291-3125, message or after 5. 
Entertainment center, big, black & cooii Great shape, $180 new. $75. Cindy 1-5022. 
1985 Honda Hatchback $1 000/Best offer 708-957-1546 (Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires & Brakes. 
SONY CFD470 MEGABASS Dual Tape/CO/ AM-FM boombox 15mo old/used rarely $186/obo ca\1289-8917 
PURDUE TICKET FOR SALE 273-4689 
NEED A ONE WAY TO SAN JOSE? 1 ticket from Chicago to San Jose, Ca 
#4-4144 

'85 Shadow 500 ding In tank runs great $800 233-5288 
TICKETS 

A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219-232-0061, 24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. BUY'SELL 'TRADE (219) 232-0058-24 HAS. 
BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. andWASHINGTON A MUST PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN........ 2771659 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, EXT. 8796. 
Desperately need USC tlcketslll 3 GA's or 2 GA's and.1 Student Please call Chris at 288-7843. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Weallhyl Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370 $$$$$$ 
need vanderbilt tickets GA's or married student tlx call Dan @ 273-4780 
need TEXAS, USC, BC tkts call Mike x4429 I HAVE USC TIX Will trade 2 GAs plus stadium park­ing pass for 4 Texas or BC GAs. Call MaH W(312)704-7704 H(312)549-0825 
Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 
NEED NO-TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. 
NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & PURDUE GA'S. 219-422-6088. 
iiii@ii@ @!@!@@ @!#$#@$$%$@ 
Larry needs you II He needs your tickets tool Looking for Navy G.A.s and VAndy GAs or student tix. Call 634-3593 if you can help him out. !#@#$@$%#@ @#@@##@@@#I 
I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'SI PLEASE CALL SU2Y AT X3729. 
Need Student Booklets and GAs for every game. Cai12n-4755 
NEEDED: 2 GA's for USC cail4x4876 
Student needs 2 tickets for USC game for DOMESICK parents please call Bonnie at 634-3397 with your tickets. 
4 GAs need for Vanderbilt. 273­3016 
Will trade 2 BC GA's for 2 Texas GA's. 815-282-9503 
Need GA's & Student Tx for USC. Call Rich at277-4755 
HELP WANTED: 
I will do any1hing for USC GAs. Money no object. 
Brian x3692 
Need any home GA's call Steve@ x1103 
NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS­NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL­LAR. (610)995-9671 
Need BC GAs 232-9784 
FOR SALE TICKETSIIII 
G.A. S ALL GAMES ....... 272-7233111lllllll 
CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT? NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT TOP DOLLAR PAID CALL KELU X4044 
WILL TRADE 4 USC GA + PRKG 
FOR 4 TX GA. 708-948-8293 
WILL TRADE GA TICKETS TO VANDY, TX. OR BC FOR USC/NO TIX. WILL ALSO PAY TOP$ FOR USC/NO TIX. CALL BOB 818-793­0412 
BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE CALL KATIE@ 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! 
USC TICKETS NEEDED, STU­DENT OR GA. CALL KATIE AT 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! 
Need 1 GA or Student for Texas Gamelllii Will pay lots of$$$$$$$ Please call x4928 Anna 
Need 2 Vandy GA's 
x0652 
NO student needs 6 Texas and 2 
Navy tickets for family driving 
REALLY far to get here ­
PLEASE call Kerry @ 634-2925 
Need 4 GA 's for Texas Game need GOOD seats. Call Kristen 277-3019 
NEED8TEXGA 
BILLY 273-4212 
$$$ NEED UT, USC, AND BC GA'S, WILL PAY BIG CASH OR TRADE VANDY GA'S CALL ERIC OR NICK@ 232-1726$$$ 
STU. TIX 4 SALE GOOD SEAT(S) 
CALLX0516 
/ 

I NEED one PURDUE ticket. Contact Greg at (634) 4-3889. 
NEEDED: Tickets to TEXA$, U$C or any other home game. Please call 273-971 0. 
WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817­738-5109 
Need 2 Vanderbilt GA's Call Ali x4541 
Need 3 GA's for Vandy and 4 for UT-call Jeff X1828 
Need 2-4 tix for Texas. John 631­7204; 233-3412 
NEED STUDENT TIXIII VANDY, OSU, and NAVY 233-2289 
ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL {313)420-1208 OR (212)250-6513 (DAY ONLY). 
NEED TX STU-TIX FOR NO GRADII HE'S RICH NOW! JANINE -1549 
Please help! I need 2 Vandy GAs for my parents.$ call x1337. 
I need 2 Purdue tix. Call Jim 234-0985. 
TRADE? 2 Vandy GAs for 2 Texas, cail4-1349 or 273-3924 
DESPERATE for 4 usc gas and 4 washington gas $$$ call ruth x37 41 
Need 2 GA's & 3 Stud tlx 4 Texas game -Reggie x4297 
TRADE -2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 USC/Texas GAs-Call219-273­8379 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 
2 GAs4 Sale: NW,Vandy,UT,Navy 271-2837. 
I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND WANT TO MAKE A TRADE ..... Call Tom at: 4-3893 
HEY I Need Vandy and Texas tickets call 239-7959 ask lor Mike 
Need 2 Vandy GA's Please call Jon@ X1103 
I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIXI CALL JOHN @ 234-5771 
I NEED 2 BC GA'SIII 
CALL KELLY x4801 
NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 
II@ VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@ II 
Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt! GAs are ideal. Help her out and she will pay you the big bucks! Call her at219-634-4203 and make her an offer. 
"&'%%$@#(Go Irish!)#@$%%'&" 
I NEED 2 BC TICKETS! 
I have $$$, Navy GAs, and USC 
tix. Please sell or trade. x3887. 
Did somebody say Deal???? ...... 
Desperately seeking 1Texas +lor 
B.C. GA or student ticket. Willing to swap Vandy +lor USC ticket. Call 273-4389 or leave message. 
????TRADE???? 

Seeking to trade 2 Vandy GA's for 2 Texas GA's call Jim/Stacie (614) 261-0056 
Need 2 GA's for the Texas game. 
Wlllpay$$$$'s. Cai\TomX-1105. 
Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s for Texas tickets. 
Tom 634-1157 
WANTED 5 BC GA'slll PLEASE CALL JENI 271-1850. 
Desparately need 1-2 TEXAS tkts (stud. or GA). Call Mary Kay X4421. 
Need 4 G.A.s for any home game. Call Alison X2511. 
Student ticket bookets for sale. Good seats. Leave message 
@ 273-4372. 
Need WASHINGTON GAs badly, Big$, call Mike x1208 
NEED 1 PURDUE TX. CALL CARY @ 4-0993 
1 Purdue Tix for Sale Call Rob x1581 
Want to see NO take out some frustration on Purdue? WE HAVE 2 PURDUE TICKETS FOR SAT­URDAY! call Jed or Rob -1177 
Just need 2 PURDUE tickets, call Mark at x3360 
Need 1 GA or stud. tix for my little bro to BC. Willing to pay$$$$$$ Call Mike, x3459 
Helpil need a total of 8 GAs plus 1 st. tix for Vanderbilt, MaH X-3931 
Will trade Navy GA's for Vand. GA's. Call Erin #4021 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ I NEED TEXAS STUDENT TICK­ETS. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY CALL CHRIS @239-8922 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
FOR SALE: TWO TICKET BOOKLETS-MARRIED. LEAVE MESSAGE 289-52-14 
TRADE 
I have 2 Vandy & 4 Navy. Any combination for 2 USC or 2 Texas. Call Brian x3084 
Help! My father will sell me into slavery In Sri Lanka If I don't find him Texas GA's. Please call Vanessa 273-2910. 
HELP!! I need Air Force ticketsiiill Also Purdue, Ohio State, and any home GA's. Emily @ 273-9840. 
Need 2 G.A nxs for Vandy game! Please call x4021. 
I HAVE VANDERBILT STUD TIX 
FOR SALE 1-6696 
PERSONAL 
JAU.ERCISE 
ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT &STAY THAT WAY. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 2n-0111 FOR MORE INFO. 
Walter is going to MarqueHe todayl Have fun there bad boy! Oh, he's a naughty kid. But not as naughty as Todd. He breaks arms and legs. 
Hey, you I I know you're Interested In Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year is coming up soon. Mark your calen­dars: 
(9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune). 
All are welcome. Keep the faith 
and love alive. Be a part of the 
action. I'll see you there. 
Ill George and the Freaks Ill Thursday Night, Sept. 7 at the Alumni Senior Club, 1 0:30. Bring your cup and party with the Freaks. 
Alllcinnamon is the best Freshman ever! 
AHention, Law Studs: 
Deidre Meehan needs 25 smooches -it's her birthday! 
Love, BK and the RAs 
HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
1st meeting tonlghtlillll CSCat8pm 
ALL ARE WELCOMEIII 
RESIGN RESIGN 
Hey LOU-ser: Do Notre Dame, your players, asst. coaches, the fans and college foot­bail a favor: 
RESIGN RESIGN 
Hey Golfers! 
The Social Justice Forum Is hosting a four person golf scramble on Tuesday Sept. 19, at the Notre Dame golf course. The scramble begins at 2:30 PM. Prizes will be given for the top teams. $15 per person. 4 person teams. but single and double players are welcome. Sign-ups In the Law School Lounge 12-1 PMtheweekofSep\.11-15. 
Win FABULOUS prizes, and help us help kids. 
To: All Gay or Lesbian Undergraduates at Notre Dame From: Campus Ministry 
We invite you to join us and each other to talk about your concerns and questions regarding your sexu­ality...Ail conversations confiden­tial" 
For more Information please call: Kate BarreH {1-5242), Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC (1-7800 or 1-5056) or Fr. Tom Gaughan, CSC (1-6777). 
Hey Parsons-WHY HAVENT I SEEN YOU AT THE MANHOLE LATELY? I HAVE MISSED YOU SO MUCH SINCE THE MONET EXHIBIT AND 
THOSE HOT SUMMER NIGHTS 
IN SEEDY BELMONT ST. HUGS AND KISSES-TIGGERR 
ONLY TWO THINGS COME OUT OF FLORIDA-STEERS AND QUEERS AND I DON'T SEE ANY HORNS COMING OUT OF YOUR HEADCUJOI! 
Interested in news broadcasting? 
Join the WVFI news department 
and keep others from being clue­
less. Call Joe at x2036. 
Stop looking at me swan! 
Shampoo is beHer for your hair. I keep it nice and clean. No, condi­tioner Is beHer for your hair. I keep it silky and smooth. Oh, really fool? Really! 
Oh, Veronica Vaughn, soooo hot, wnat to touch the hiney? Arooool 
Everybody my age pees their 
pants. It's the coolest! 
Happy 21st Joe Cavataio! 
He's gonna be a t.occer player. He 
Is ... He lsi 
T-I-t-today, Junior! 
I can see your lips movln', but I 
can't make out the words. 
Send your lunch abroad! Sign up 
for Wed. Lunch Fast today in the 
dining hall or call Amy x2992 with 
your ID number 


~~-~----~-------~~-­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 7, 1995 
-missed a minor league playoff record has just been a matter Set more than a half-century a fund for amyotrophic lateral game to attend. of wanting to play, of showing ago, Gehrig's 2,130-game sclerosis (ALS), also known as
Ripken 
When he came to the Angels' up each day at work ready to string was once considered one Lou Gehrig's disease. 

continued from page 16 
however; that was coming at a postgame tribute on the field. 
Once resentful that he might be known only for his streak ­he's won two AL MVP awards, been a 13-time All-Star, hit more home runs than any shortstop ever and set nearly a dozen fielding records -Rip­ken seemed happy, and a bit relieved it was all over. 
Ripken's string of starting ev­ery game for more than 13 years seems even more un­breakable than when Gehrig set the mark in 1939. Major leaguers rarely play every game even in a single month ­in fact, the second-longest ac­tive streak belongs to Frank Thomas at just 235. 
Ripken always has said he is not playing for the streak. If he was, there would be one more to aim for -Sachio Kinugasa played 2,215 straight games in J.apan's major leagues from 1970-87. 
During the ceremony Ripken took off his No. 8 jersey and handed it to his wife and two children, revealing a black T­shirt he wore that said on the back: "2,130+ HUGS AND KISS­ES FOR DADDY." 
Ripken shook hands with his brother Billy, his long-time sec­ond base partner with the Orioles who took a day off from his Triple A Buffalo team and 
<Beb ·~ <Brealifast ~egistr.Y 
7Q Michi4nA ~ Fint Registry ofPrivate ~ Homes for ND-SMC Parents and Friends Try the OPTION! 
Graduation, Football, JPW, Freshman Orientation, etc. 
Wilm4 L BelmM (219) 291-7153 
dugout, Ripken went down the line shaking every hand while Bobby Bonilla and other Orioles captured the event on video cameras. 
Watching from the stands were Joe DiMaggio, who played with Gehrig and had a streak of his own -56 consecutive games with at least one hit ­former Oriole star Frank Robinson, Ripken's first major-league manager, Earl Weaver, and Ripken's father, Cal Sr. 
To Ripken, breaking Gehrig's do a job. Earlier Wednesday, Ripken had another job, getting his 5-year-old daughter, Rachel, to her first day of school. 

Later, Rachel and son Ryan, 2, threw out the ceremonial first balls from a first-base box where his wife, Kelly, sat. 
For fans lucky enough to be inside, it was a riveting mo­ment, just like the night Hank Aaron broke Babe Ruth's home run record or the night Rose passed Cobb. 
of those unbreakable barriers, too, up there with the Qitting streak of DiMaggio and the 511 wins by Cy Young. 
Since Ripken started his streak on May 30, 1982, there have been 3,712 major league players on the disabled list. Other teams, meanwhile, have used 517 starting shortstops. 
Among those in attendance were 260 fans who paid $5,000 each to sit in special boxes built down each line. The proceeds were to go to charity, including 
Gehrig's streak -in which he started all but three times ­ended on May 2, 1939, when he asked out of the lineup because he was too weak. He had gone 0-for-4 and stranded runners each time in game No. 2,130, and never played again. 
On July 4, 1941, a month af­ter he died, a plaque honoring Gehring was placed in Yankee Stadium, praising him as a man "whose amazing record of 2130 consecutive games should stand for all time." 


-Available for $10 at LAF info desk, includes: ticket, and bus ride 
to and from the game. 
-Bus leaves 3:30 (tentative) from the JACC parking lot-gate 10. 
Sept 1 2 -Cubs v s. Dodgers 

Department of Coolmunicalion &Theatre presenla 

~~~r~ ~[~~ ~~l~ ~~[MI[~[ 

-N.Y. TIMES 
RON VAWTER IN TWO INFAIIOUS 
QUEERS 
WITH 
NontiNG 
IN COliIION••• 
STRAND RflfASING AND JONATHAN DfMMf ~RfSfNT 
AFILl BY JILL GODIILOW 
Abenefit for the Gender Studies Program, in its collaborative efforts with GLNOISMC and Campus Ministry to provide aforum for discussion of issues raised by the GLNO/SMC controversy of last spring
-
FRIDAY SEPTEMBER 8 7:00 PM 
SNITE MUSEUM OF ART-UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME TICKETS $6-STUDENTS $4 (NO PASSES) FOR MORE INFO CALL 631-7361 
The 1st 

Prelaw Society Meeting 7 p.m. September 11, 1995 Room 120 Law School All Juniors & Seniors Should Attend 
Everyone Welcome ! 


-----~-------------------------­
page 13

Thursday, September 7, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
_..,. 

• VOLLEYBALL 
------~ ~-­

Impressive win prepares Belles for home opener 

mechanics of the attack and theBy KATHLEEN POLICY 
running of the attack but felt that the modified part of the Tuesday night the Saint defense was nonexistent. Mary's volleyball team defeated 
Sporu Writ~r 
"I believe that we will be able Manchester College four games to fix this problem," said to one (15-11, 15-6, 5-15, 15-Schroeder -Biek. "The team 
worked on this very little in the floor. 
13) on Manchester's home preseason practices, but fa­
Playing with a paired down vored working on more ball roster, Coach Julie Schroeder­control work." Biek was happy with the Schroeder-Biek was very 
Send your lunch abroad! 
FAST TO END HUNGER Join the 800+ students who fast every Wed. to help fight world hunger. Over $7000 raised last semester!! Sign up in the dining hall today (9/7) or call Amy 4-2992 Leave your name and ID number 
happy the team tried new things on Tuesday. 
She believes that this kind of versatility will be key for the Belles throughout the season due to their paired down roster of9. 
"We will rely on versatility now more than ever due to the injury of sophomore Arwen Dickey," said Schroeder-Biek. "Dickey has tendinitis and will 
be sidelined for at least two 
weeks. I realize that this is the 
gamble of our small roster, but 
fortunately, our team has great _depth." 
The players agree with their 
coach. Senior captain Kelley 
Prosser, who led the team with 
five aces on Tuesday, believes 
that the team made plenty of 
mistakes that can be corrected. 
Prosser also made 7 digs in the 
SANIJI~A BILL BULLOCK PULL~tAN 
Whil~ 
WTYou 
...were 
Sleeping 
A story about love at second sight. 
!!'E [fP"lG@,• -"""''"'·""'•"<'rv--•·~·,·~~ .... __,...
Cdii':l ~. .... , . ..., 
match. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Kelly Meyer had an outstanding per­formance at setter with 45 as­sists. 
"Meyer is becoming an offen­sive threat in the first row," said Schroeder-Biek. 
Prosser was also pleased with her performance since she got a lot of people involved in the offense and mixed up her sets very well. 
One of the keys for Manch­ester was an outstanding de­fense, which caused trouble for freshman Laura Schreeg who was only successful with two of her eight blocks. 
The Belles next game is a home match against Calvin Col­lege. 
"Although we defeated Calvin last season, they should be a tough match for us tonight," said Prosser. 
Tonight's match against Calvin will open the Belles' home season. 
The excitement begins at six 
o'clock in Angela Athletic 
Facility. 

POWER LUNCHES 
In today's world, "power lunches" usually refer to the opportunity to participate in some "high-level wheeling and dealing" or to engage in some serious "corporate networking." Power lunches are typically less about eating and more about "schmoozing." So what does Campus Ministry have to do with "power lunches"? Good question!! 
While doing marriage preparation with a Notre Dame graduate recently, we listened to a young man tell about feeling somewhat overwhelmed in his Theology classes while he was a student here, about realizing that he had very little background or knowledge about his faith. While he considered himself to be a religious per­son, he felt intimidated on the academic level and found that he had large gaps in his knowledge and understanding of the practices of the Catholic faith. He felt that many of his questions were so basic that he was embarrassed to ask them, assuming that everyone else knew these things already. 
In our work at Campus Ministry, we have discovered that this experience is not unique. There are many students who know they love their faith, but realize that they know very little about it. With this in mind, we have designed "Keeping the Faith Power Lunches," 45-minute gatherings over Friday lunch that will include a briefpresentation on a topic ofCatholic faith or prac­tice, questions and discussion, and handouts for further reading on the day's theme. 
Why Fridays? Because hopefully you will be more relaxed. 
Why lunch? Because we don't want you to have to choose between this opportunity and all the other things going on at night. 
Why bother? Because you might meet some nice people while learning more about what it means to be a Catholic. 
This semester we plan to explore the following topics over lunch: Going to Mass, Advent Prayer, Reading the Bible, Understanding Sacraments. These might not be the typical "Power Lunches" of the 90's, but they just might mal>:e a powerful difference in your life! We hope you will join us. 
Kate Barrett John Dillon Sylvia Dillon Darrell Paulsen 
POWER LUNCHES Fridays= 12:15-1:00 p.m. 2nd FLOOR SOUTH DINING HALL 
THIS WEEK'S SUBJECT: HOW CATHOLICS READ THE BIBLE 
Sat., Sept. 9 Sun., Sept. 10  WEEKEND PRESIDERS AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 5:00p.m. Rev. Joseph Ross, C.S.C. 10:00 a.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 11:45 a.m. Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C.  

·---------·-·-------------------.. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• 
•••CONSIDERATIONS 
Twenty-Third Sunday in Ordinary Time 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 10 
1st Reading  Wisdom 9:13-18  
2nd Reading  Philemon 9-10, 12-17  
Gospel  Luke 14: 25-33  

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September7, 1995 
.... 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Shorin-Ryu Karate Semester-long course that meets in Rockne 219 M/W 4:30-6:30 starting Wednes­day, Sept. 14. Register in advance, and the fee $15. Call RecSports for info. Horseback Riding -An infor­mational meeting will be held on Thursday, Sept. 7 at 6 p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom. Class begins Sept. 14, and more information is available at 1-6100. Men's Club Volleyball ­Tryouts will be held on Sept. 10-12 in the JACC Auxiliary Gym. For more information contact Josh at 4-3413 or Gregg at 4-1650. Pounce Purdue Volleyball Tournament -Register a team in the RecSports office. It will be held Friday, Sept. 8, at the Stepan courts. It is a co-ree 6-on-6 tournament requiring a minimum of two females on the court at all times. The deadline to enter a team is Thursday, Sept. 7. For more information, call RecSports at 1-6100. Bike Ride -RecSports will be sponsoring a bike ride from New Buffalo to the Dunes (approximately 25 miles round tdp) on Sunday, Sept. 
17. A picnic lunch is included along with transportation for you and your bike. The fee is $8 and space is limited. Helmets are required and you must register in advance at the RecSports office. The bus departs the Library Circle at 10 and returns at 5. Call RecSports at 1-6100. Weight Room Demonstration -RecSports is sponsoring free demonstrations Sunday Sept. 10 at noon in the fieldhouse weight room, Monday. Sept. 11 at noon in the Rockne weight room, and Thursday, Sept. 14 at noon in the Rockne weight room. Sigh in when you get there. Mandatory Track Meeting ­The meeting will be held Wednesday, Sept. 13 at 4 pm 
i.n Loftus, _Questions? .Call Ken at 239-7959. Equestrian Club-There will be an informational meeting tonight (Thurs. 9/7) at 8:00 
p.m. for all new and return­ing members. It will be in room 222 of the library. 
Executive Tail!!aitim! 
FullY ec~uilled RU will handle all Your taiiJ!altlnR needs: 
•SetuP •Food • 
•Beveraees •SleePine • 
Students. let YOUr parents know! 
• SocceR 

Back injury forces Turner to sit out 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT men's soccer team was forced and the opening game against with a large body up front; giv­Assistant Spotts Editor to play the season without their DePaul last weekend because of ing the Irish an advantage in most revered and prolific scor­a back injury. That injury has the air and a person who could 

Notre Dame er in Bill Lanza. To fill his now been determined to be a muscle opponents off the ball. football is not place they found a star in then stress fracture in his lower With Turner out of the lineup, the only Irish freshman Ryan Turner. back. the Irish will have to count on sports team The revolving door of injuries While, Turner started 19 of sophomore Scott Wells. to be plagued turns once again. As Lanza re­23 games last year and record­Wells has been starting up by injuries turns, the Irish lose Turner for ed four goals and seven assists, front for the Irish in Turner's the past two the entire 1995 season. his large contribution wasn't in absence. He was credited with years. Last Turner had been absent from his statistics. the game tying assist against season the the scrimmage against St. Louis Turner provided the Irish St. Louis.
Turner 

S H 0 P ANN TAYLOR LOFT AND RECEIVE 

%H 
YOUR PURCHASE 
And, when you present this card along with the information below, receive a free loft cap. 
No purchase necessary. Cap supply 
is limited. Offers expire 9/30/95. 
This coupon may be used only once. 
One cap per customer. 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--­
Name 

Campus Address Permanent Address 
City City 
State Zip



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
Thursday, September 7, 1995 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
-
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call l-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE pursuits are favored. NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Look for untapped skills to make Domestic changes arc favored. Your themselves evident. Developing a public relations skills help you put a previously-overlooked talent will positive spin on whatever you do. help you create a unique market for Heed an expert's advice and you your services. Sibling rivalry needs Will not go wrong. Others respond to be handled in a constructive man­enthusiastically to your message. ner. Resist the urge to strike back at LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do someone who has hurt your feelings. not let a family spat get out of hand; The financial picture looks bright. keep your sense of proportion. Romantic partner encourages you to Maintaining a sense of humor in try­look past current limitations. ing times will win you new admir­CELEBRITIES BORN ON ers. Dollar signs are flashing! Sign a THIS DAY: rock 'n · roll legend contract. Buddy Holly, actor Corbin Bernsen, SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): singer Chrissie Hynde, artist Grand­This morning's urge to act on ma Moses. impulse will be replaced by caution ARIES (March 21-April 19): once afternoon rolls around. A void Ruling by fear will come back to lending money. Cool a romance. haunt you. Lighten up1 A parent's Revealing too much of your person­job is to rear children who will make al affairs to co-workers would be a wise decisions on their own. Give a mistake. youngster time to develop mature SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. judg!llent. 21 ): Love is uppermost in your TAURUS (April 20-May 20): thoughts today. Remain loyal to Stay away from eccentric people lest tried-and-true methods. Do not let a you be persuaded to sink money into momentary feeling of anxiety lead worthless projects. Do not let your you to assert yourself too strongly in pleasure in an audience's reaction the wrong direction. blind you to ways to improve your CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. performance. Aim high! 19): Curb a competitive streak and GEMINI (May 21-June 20): concentrate on solo projects. Con­Show initiative. Go after what you siderable progress can be made by want, even if you have secret those who strike out on their own. doubts. Family members are sup­Let the crowd move on without you. portive. Get busy with a special plan Welcome calls from old friends. to improve your home. A vert a clash AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. !!!): of wills with mate. Move ahead with confidence when CANCER (June 21-July 22): A on familiar territory; tread cautious­permanent domestic change will ly when approaching the unknown. mean new stability in your life. Higher-ups are assessing your job Someone with musical talent performance. Hone your skills. A receives special recognition. Make romance that has suffered a setback the most of the positive trends can still be salvaged. developing around you. PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): . LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Busi­Review your present situation, but ness success requires a willingness avoid fretting about what cannot be to modernize. Working in harn1ony changed. A close friend comes to with your partner strengthens your your rescue in an emergency. Do alliance. Give loved ones the benefit not take your loved ones for granted. of the doubt. Travel and educational Show appreciation in tangible ways .  
• OF INTEREST English Department's Career Fair: Professionals from several fields are scheduled to speak about career choices. The Fair begins at 7:30 pm in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Habitat for Humanity Introductory Meeting will be held tonight at 8 pm in the Center for Social Concerns.  
•MENU Notre Dame :WL.:::. North South BBQ Rib Sandwich Flank Steak Sandwich Chicken Breast Parmesan Veal Parmigiana Sausage and Onions Scalloped Potatoes Saint Mary's Catfish Calzone Beef Stew :...·:·:::::~ .  
Have something to say? VseThe Observer classifieds.  

WATCH ME ACT LIKE. 
54 Oscar-winning Pasteur portrayer 
55 Many a drug pusher? 58 Playwright Bogosian 59 Golfer lsao -­60 Tennis exchange 61 Memo 62 Portland college 63 Singing syllables 
DOWN 
1 Attic problem 2 Exclusively 3Jim Davis 
cartoon dog 4 Hill worker: 
Abbr. 5Quotefrom 6 Receive 
• 
enthusiastically 1 "The Haj" author a Chess pieces 

50 Make brownies 9Gail Sheehy 
26 Tom Joad felt it 43 Word with head 
book 27 "-.. -go again or line 51 Farmer's place, 44 Bean in song
.10 Student's crib? 

28 Relative ofthe 46 Intelligible 52 Part of S.A.S.E.
11 Roseanne, 

dik-dik 47 Sign of things to 53 "--Little
formerly 29 Gave (out) come Tenderness"
12 Jack of TV's (old song hit)

30 Yakety-yakked 48--Disney 56 Lobster coral
"Easy Street" 

31 Get around 49 Hawkeye's M.A.S.H., for one 57 "The Way" 
13 Optimistic 32 '48 also-ran 
23 Lawrence Tero, 34 Fencing professionally movement 18 Medical grps. 

Get answers to any three clues 
24 Dog groomer's 37 Frisco 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
specialty? transporter 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
25 Worker's reward 41 Movers' partners 

I'S 11-\15 ~ 
IRICK? Cf\N. WE REAlL'{ PLt>.'l M'i f"AIJOR\TE 
GAME?!' 
DILBERT 
GEl C>\JI 11-\£. T\1-<\E·fR~c\\JRE 
W\C\(E\5, 1-\ClB'iSts! 
WE'RE ~1-l\--1~ 1\1>-'i C~\.\Jit-18lli..! 
SCOTT ADAMS 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Bullwinkle, e.g. 8 Unit of sugar 
100newith a handle 14 Algebraic 
exponent u Carpet cutter's 
calculation 18 Lunar light 17 Wrestling 
coups? 19 Geologic 
divisions 20 Baby blue, e.g. 21 Zoo section 22 Unctuous 24 Riding whip 25 Lone Ranger foe 
Black­28 Has a litter 29 Pooped 


• f1U)I.tn'lJMONIOA.ID • 
··························································································~ 
• You don't have to to France for a
•
•
• •
•
•
•
• 
just quit playing tonsil hockey long enough
•
• to get your glutius maximus to•• Cuahin8& on
• 
Friday and Saturday at 8pm II. 10pm•• or Sunday at 2pm.
•
• $2 admission (even if you sit way in the
• 
back with that special someone and don't
•
• even WATCH)
• 

•
But what if your heart craves for
, •
•
t11WSJC and notjust plain old • boring romance? Simple. Just ••
•
remember these three things: 
•
•
•
•
•
1. Tonite 9pm-midnite at LaFortune 
• •
UIJtlal • 
3. Wear clean underwear 
-~ 

33 Set another match to 34 Top-drawer 35 It's probably filled on Easter 38 Not care-­37 Better-than­middling grade 38 --at (torment) 39 Change fa~ a C-note 40 Lummoxes 41 Chinaman 42 It's usually out for the night 44Actor Lon 45 Brooklet 46Jam-pack 47 Work 50 Hooey 51 It starts in Apr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-
SPORTS 
page 16 Thursday, September 7, 1995 
.. 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Prolific Irish travel to Indiana 
By DAVE TREACY 
Spons Writer 
It is often said that the best defense is a good offense. If the Notre Dame women's soccer team maintains their current level of performance, they may never have to play real defense again. 
The Indiana Hoosiers, today's opponent, are not likely to change the current trend. 
"They are a very young team, but they have a couple quality players. Their center midfielder is good, and they also have a good striker," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. 
To translate this from coaches' terminology, Indiana doesn't stand much of a chance. 
Unlike the Hoosiers, the Irish are definitely an experienced group. Seniors Ragen Coyne, Rosella Guerrero, and Michelle .McCarthy pace an intimidating offensive charge, and sweeper Ashley Scharff is a steel curtain in the defensive end. 
The two captains of the squad are juniors Cindy Daws and Jen Renola. In the net, Renola has been completely unchallenged this season. St. John's, the last Irish victim, did not even manage a shot on goal in 90 minutes of play. 
Daws has yet to play this season due to a pulled quadriceps muscle, but may see action in Indianapolis. 
"We'd like to use Cindy (today). She practiced with the team last night. We've been taking her recovery on a day-by-day basis. If she feels she's ready, she'll play," Petrucelli said. 
However, the Irish have a very solid defense, if needed. The back line has spent most of its time in the offensive half of the field, but Scharff and juniors Kate Fisher and Kate Sobrero have been efficient in deflecting any opposing offensive attempts. Fisher has also been very effective in starting the offense from the wing. 
In the middle, it can be con-

While the offense gets most of the attention, Kate Fisher and the defense 
have been impenetrable. 
tended strongly that the Irish have the most dominant midfield in the country. The Irish have all-ameri­cans in Daws and sophomore Holy Manthei. 
Manthei has done a solid job con­trolling game play thus far. Freshman Shannon Boxx has also played well in her stint as Daws' replacement, recording five assists in her first weekend of collegiate play. Junior Stacia Masters has also started off the season well, recording two assists from the wing against St. John's. 
Returning to help captain the 

offense this season is Coyne. Back from knee surgery that prevented her from playing last season, Coyne has demonstrated on the field that she has made a full recovery. 
Notre Dame has controlled the series in the past, leading Indiana 4-1-0. Most recently, the Irish handed the Hoosiers a 5-0 defeat last season on Alumni field. 
"Our successes against Indiana make us pretty confident heading into the game. But, we don't expect them to be intimidated by 
us." 

Perhaps they should be. 
• foontALL 
Woes continue, Irish lose Akers 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Spons Editor 
It started as an innocent statement from Notre Dame football head coach Lou Holtz. He was just trying to define some possible reasons for the decline in confidence and toughness on his team. 
"I don't think we practice as physical as what we used to," Holtz said at his Tuesday press conference. "With the scholarship numbers right now, we've not been able to have the type of prac­tices that we are used to having." 
Its almost freaky the way things 

have happened to go wrong for the Akers Irish the past two seasons. Talk about how a lack of team depth from injuries, trans­fers and scholarship limitations keeps the team from practicing physically, and what happens? You lose your staring left guard. 
During Wednesday's practice Jeremy Akers dislo­cated his left kneecap and tore the medial cruciate ligament. He is expected to be lost for at least four to six weeks. 

This, combined with the off-season transfer of Steve Misetic, leaves starting right guard Ryan Leahy as the only experienced guard on the team. Holtz stated that either sophomore Luke Petitgout or freshman Jerry Wisne will fill the vacant left guard slot this Saturday against Purdue. 
This surprised Wisne. He's been practicing on the offensive line for only ten days . 
"They tried Rick Kaczenski at left guard," he said. 

Yet, should the call come for Wisne to play, he's ready. "I comfortable with playing. I'm not as familiar as the other guys with the offense, but I'm able to go." 
In either case the Irish will be starting a player that was recruited for a dilTerent position. Wisne was a defensive lineman, last season Petitgout was a tight end, and Kaczenski was a recruited tight end moved to center and now to guard. 
While they give the Irish a body on the line, there is no way they can replace Akers' leadership. 
"The loss of Ackers does hurt the-team a little," Wisne commented. "He's a good leader. But he'll be back in a couple of weeks, and in the mean time we'll do OK." 
• BASEBAll 

Once again, Ripken came to play
• 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 

BALTIMORE 
The ovation had been building for more than a decade, and when it came for Cal Ripken, it would not stop. From all cor­ners of Camden Yards they cheered, an
• 
outpouring of adoration for a hometown hero that lasted 22 minutes and 15 sec­onds in all. 
Patting his heart, Ripken seemed almost hesitant to accept their accolades Wednesday night. And then, with a thank­you lap of the park, the fans saw some­thing really special -the transformation of reliable, good ol' Cal into a baseball im­
.. 
mortal. 

Ripken reached that place by breaking Lou Gehrig's unbreakable record when he played his 2,131st consecutive game, becoming the most dependable, most 
Football 
at Purdue September 9, 2:30 EST 
Volleyball 
at Indiana September 8, 7:30p.m. vs. Kentucky September 9, 11 a.m.

-
Cross Country 
at Ohio State September 15 

at Indiana September 7, 7 p.m. at Wisconsin September 10, 2 p.m. 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Valparaiso September 8, 7:30p.m. vs. Syracuse September 10, 1 p.m. 
durable athlete in the history of America's oldest sport. 
Ripken started his big night by catching the ceremonial first-pitches from his chil­dren, then highlighted it by hitting a home run in the fourth inning, his third homer in three nights. Moments later the game between his Baltimore Orioles and California became official and he was in the record book for now and probably for­ever. 
More than a half-century after Gehrig was forced out of the lineup by a deadly disease, Ripken streaked past him as baseball's new Iron Man, likely the last of his kind. 
Gracefully, as always, he slipped into his hallowed place . 
He did not cry like Pete Rose did after breaking Ty Cobb's hit record. He did not boast, "I am the greatest!" like Rickey Henderson did after he surpassed Lou 
Women's Soccer 

Brock's stolen base record. 

No. when the 10-foot numbers on the B&O Warehouse beyond right field dropped down to reveal 2-1-3-1 and the fireworks exploded overhead, he merely emerged from the dugout, waved to his family and saluted the cheers of the Ori­oles and Angels players, all four umpires, President Clinton and Vice President AI Gore, and the entire crowd of 46,272. 
Then, he reluctantly let himself be pushed out of the dugout by his team­mates and made his way around the entire warning track, especially seeking out the hands of the young to shake and slap with high fives. 
Ripken, who recently said he did not want the game stopped on his behalf, seemed at peace during the whole cele­bration. He did not address the crowd, 
see RIPKEN/ page 12 
• 
Belles victorious over Manchester see page 13 

• 
Irish's Ryan Turner out for season see page 14 




Friday, September 8, 1995 page 2 

By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz can be grumpy and fussy about a lot of things, but if you want him to get really mad, fumble a football. 
"The one thing we will not tolerate, we cannot, we will not live with fumbles," Holtz says. "That is the one thing we will not do." 
In last Saturday's loss to Northwestern, the Irish had two of the hated turnovers. 
Tailbacks Randy Kinder and Robert Farmer each had a fum­ble, with Kinder's miscue com­ing on the flist Irish drive of the game. 
"I think (the fumble) really hurt us mentally," quarterback Ron Powlus said after the game. "I don't think we ever really recovered." 
Kinder and Farmer each re­covered to score a touchdown, with Farmer earning 85 yards 
IRISH ON THE OffENSIVE. 
II u 

Purdue hoping Irish fumble game away 
Irish hope to slow Purdue ground game 
and Kinder 68. Fullback Marc Edwards faces the challenge of playing against one of the best in the game, Purdue's Mike Alstott. But Holtz believes his fullback is up to the competi­tion. 
"I think our fullback's a very solid player," Holtz said. But Edwards, and the other backs, will have a hard time gaining yards behind a struggling of­fensive line. 
"Our offensive line individu­ally plays pretty well," Holtz said. "But they haven't jelled as a group." 
Powlus was sacked four times by Northwestern, and in one of the more embarassing mo­ments Saturday, Powlus and center Dusty Zeigler got their feet locked up, tripping Powlus as he attempted to complete a two-point conversion. 
When you have a receiver as talented as Derrick Mayes, its natural to want to go to him as often as possible. 

Unfortunately, Powlus has seems to have tunnel vision when it comes to his receivers, only having eyes for Mayes. 
"I don't think there's any doubt we look at him a little bit too much," head coach Lou Holtz said. "But Derrick is an outstanding receiver and in double coverage he's going to get open." 
Mayes pulled in eight catches for 94 yards. Edwards had four catches for just 37 yards, and four other receivers caught one apiece. 
With Purdue head coach Jim Colletto worried about his sec­ondary's pass coverage, Saturday would be an oppor­tune time for the Irish to take to the air, to someone other than Mayes. But Holtz is not ready to rely on a passing game. 
Holtz was frustrated by inconsistencies on offense. "Inconsistency does not build unity." 

By MEGAN McGRATH Sports W rirer 
The Notre Dame defensive unit will be looking to 
build on the intensity they showed in the second half of 
last week's loss to Northwestern. 
What they want to avoid is the confused, intensity­lacking performance they put on in the opening period of the game. 
"We have to become consistent on defense, we don't have a big play guy on defense like we've had," coach Lou Holtz said. "We don't have that right now, but we can win with it, live with it, but not if we're going to make mistakes and be inconsistent." 
The mistakes and inconsistencies allowed Northwestern running back Darnell Autry to run roughshod over the defense. 
This weekend, the Irish face an even more fearsome running game, as Purdue brings Heisman Trophy can­The Observer/Mike Ruma didate Mike Alstott and Corey Rogers at tail back. John Mclaughlin (background) will start at rush linebacker. "We don't match up with them particularly well," 
1ll8 Observer/ Jake Peters 

Randy Kinder wilt carry the load for the Irish against Purdue Saturday. 
BOILERMAKERS ON THE OFFENSIVE••• 
Holtz worries. "They're awful big in the offensive line, their tight end, Charlie Stephens, is huge. So size is a bit of a problem." 
Holtz hopes his crew of Paul Grasmanis, Renaldo Wynn and Corey Bennett can make up for their lack of size with intensity and skill. 
The strength of the Purdue running game will also put tremendous pressure on the young corps of line­backers. Holtz expects Lyron Cobbins and fellow ILB Kinnon Tatum "will be solid football players," but for the Irish to be successful they need to realize that potential now. 
Holtz expressed concern about the secondary's per­formance against Northwestern, where two passing touchdowns were allowed to Wildcat quarterback Steve Schnur 
"Purdue last year was one of the best offensive teams in the country, and they have a lot of people back from that team," Holtz said. "We need to have a spark under us to beat them that was missing Saturday." 

Purdue Backfield 
VS. By Thomas Schlidt 
Notre Dame Linebackers 
P
urdue quarterback Rick back Rogers, whose speed brings Trefzger is no Steve the Boilermakers a nice change of Schnur, and really ... who pace to throw off opponents' is. If the Notre Dame linebackers defenses. can stable the Purdue running On the other side of the ball, machine of Mike Alstott and Corey Irish inside linebackers Lyron Rogers, the Irish should win. Cobbins and Kinnon Tatum will 
Alstott comes into the season as have to live up to the intensity and one of the few Heisman hopefuls tackling ability that everyone that have been fullbacks. He thought they had. 
brings tremendous power and While Cobbins had nine tackles 
receiving that makes him a Tom against Northwestern, the The Observer/Mike Ruma Wildcats still ran up 165 yards on Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 
Rathman type threat. His blocking 
Lyron Cobbins anchors the Irish linebacking core. 
Rick Trefzger will hand off to some tough backs.

opens the holes for fellow running the ground. 
page 3 
• • •COREY ROGERS 

··-111*-0'_,""""-'",.-B .~.. R f·~ci"z 
t'noto counesy ot l'uraue ~ports Information 
T
hunder and Lightning." Reggie Brooks and Jerome Bl!ttis. Brooks provided the speed, elusiveness, and quickness. Bettis ran over anyone and anything in his way. In 1992 they formed one of the greatest backfields .in Notre Dame football 
history. 
T h i s 
him the prototype Saturday the Irish running "Thunder and 
back. And with Lightning" his high school returns. Don't 
record it's sur­expect to see prising that he is­n't.
Brooks or Bettis on the Hogers was field. The Rogers Chicago's Player­sents a lot of problems." 
Holtz has good reason to be concerned. Last year Hogers ran all over the Irish defense and managed to rack-up 94 yards on 16 carries and 1 touchdown. lie also caught a pass for a touchdown. 
Hogers' ability to run with the ball, block, and receive makes 
1995 version consists of two Purdue backs, Corey Hogers and Mike Alstott. 
While Alstott is receiving the praise and Ileisman talk, Hogers is no less deadly. Just ask the formerly 23rd ranked and weather­battenJd West Virginia defense that gave up two touchdowns and 78 yards on only 13 carries to Hogers. 
"I can't think of two 
·backs that compliment one another any better than Corey Hogers and Mike Alstott," Irish head coach Lou Holtz announced earlier this week. 
"They're both good receivers. They proba­bly block as well as any backs I've seen. 
"Hogers behind that big offensive line pre­
of-the-Year for both the Chicago Tribune and Chicago Sun-Times , and a prep All-American. He also received the Lawless Award recognizing him as Chicago Catholic League's Most Outstanding Player. A prime candidate for a Catholic university's power hous~ football team whose main alum­ni concentration is in Chicago. 
His accolades didn't stop there. 
Hogers stepped right into Boilermaker's backfield. He played in nine games, starting four of them, and picked up 502 yards on 108 carries. He was rewarded for his play by being named the Big­Ten Freshman-of-the-Year. 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, Septmber 8, 1995 
!!~ti!';:!!?'!? I 


at who holds the advantage 
II·Quarterbacks D 
Regardless ofhis performance last week, Ron 
Powlus is still the leader ofthe Irish. And he's light 
years ahead ofPurdue's TrefZger. ·
D Running BackslEl 
A tough call, but the edge has to go tothe Boilermakers, whose straight ahead ground game fits their backs to a tee. 
Receivers 
If the Irish look to more receivers than just Derrick Mayes, they may be all right. Brian Alford · · and Craig Allen are tough for Purdue.
D Offensive Line /I !~ 
An even call, despite the Irish line bdng much maligned and slightly banged up. Look for big things from Purdue's Craig Williams at right end. 
~~ Linebackers D 
A definite advantage for the Irish, which they will need if they hope to stop Mike Alstott and Corey Rogers. Aaron Hall is the leader ofPurdue>s front. 

Secondary 

The Irish had their coverage problems last week. 
But Derrick Winston and Billy Chapman could 
have trouble keeping up with Mayes. 
~~ Special Teams D 
With a confident kicker and the nation's second­
rated punter, the Irish can now concentrate on 
their return game. Which they need to do badly. 
~~ Coaching 
D 
Lou Holtz is still going for his 200th. He'll have the team fired up. Jim Collette says he is nor even thinking about the Irish. Not too bright. 
~~ Overall 
·D 
Look for the Irish to bounce back. They'll face a tough challenge, though. -Mike Norbut 
• • .AARON HALL AND JON KRICK 
Aaron Half ..Photo courtesy of Purdue Sports Information 
I
f the Notre Dame should provide a worthy a opponent for the offen­
offense needs sive line. Look for Krick
good game to gain to occupy more than
some confidence, one blocker as he tries
this is one of the best shots they'll have. to get to Powlus or stuff the Irish rushing attack. 
While Northwestern's Last season Krick led
strength was their defense, it is not the Purdue defensive 
Purdue's. 
line in tackles with 45 (28 solo and seven for
Purdue r~nked tenth losses) and two quarter-
in both rushing 
(253.4 yards) back sacks, including a ten
and pass effi­
ciency (147.4) tackle effort in a late season loss
defense in the to Indiana.
Big Ten and 
• 
Behind Krickeleventh in ,., ...~ 
·~·y awaits Hall. The
total defense, 
6'1" and 235­
giving up a Hall pound starting
whopping 
471.3 yards per game. 
Yet, even in this pit of despair there are two stars. Senior team cap­tains Jon Krick and Aaron Hall anchor the defense. 
The 6'2" and 285­pound Krick brings the Chris Zorich mentality and intensity to the defense. The past sea­son he was honorable mention All-Big Ten and won the Boilermaker Brawn Award for strength, power, and speed development. 
With his combination of brute strength (480­pound bench press and 605-pound squat) and quickness (4.98 40-yard dash time), Krick 
weakside line­backer is considered to be among the nation's elite at linebacker. He was tenth in the Big Ten the past two sea­sons in tackles, and led the Boilermakers with 109 tackles, 72 of them solo, last season. He also added an intercep­tion and four passes broken up to his stats. 
He was named the Big Ten Player-of-the-Week after a career high 18 thundering tackles against Illinois last sea­son. It was from this effort that the Boilermakers were able to upset the 24th ranked Illini. It was just one of live double digit tackle efforts of the season for Hall. 


---.....,....,....,..----------~ 
--------~-~~-~------~~--~~~----------........ 
Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page4 


OILERM KER p 
• • •  
1  2  3  4  T  PASSING  Comp  All  Pet  Yds  TD  InI  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
10  9  0  7  26  Tretzger  15  22  68.2  187  1  1  33  Deignan  6  43.0  0  62  
0  0  14  10  24  
RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TD  Lg  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TD  Lg  
Allen  4  73  18.8  0  33  Johnson  1  28.0  0  28  
PU  Opp  Alford  3  38  12.7  1  18  Hagins  1  8.0  0  8  
First downs  20  23  Alstott  3  19  6.3  0  10  
Total yards  368  541  Olivadotti  2  24  12.0  0  15  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Total yards per game  368.0  541.0  Stephens  2  22  11.0  0  19  Howard  1  11.0  1  11  
Total offensive plays  63  80  Rogers  1  9  9.0  0  9  AUen  2  10.5  0  11  
Avg. yards per play  5.84  6.76  
Rushing yards  181  151  INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yds  TD  Lg  
Rushing yards per game  181.0  151.0  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  None  
Rushing plays  41  45  Alstott  109  19  0  128  128.0  
Passing yards  187  390  Rogers  78  9  0  87  87.0  
Passing yards per game  187.0  390.0  Allen  0  73  21  94  94.0  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FR  PBU  Sac  
Passes completed  15  22  Alford  0  38  0  38  38.0  Okeafor  15  0  15  0  0  1  
Passes attempted  22  35  Johnson  0  0  28  28  28.0  O'Connor  7  3  10  0  0  0  
Passes intercepted  1  0  Olivadotti  0  24  0  24  24.0  Brush  5  4  9  0  1  0  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  2/0  1 I 1  Stephens  0  22  0  22  22.0  Winston  7  2  9  0  3  0  
PenaHies-Penally yards  2-19  5-52  Watson  13  0  0  13  13.0  HallS  1  7  0  0  1  
Third down conversions  2-11  7-16  Brown  4  2  6  0  0  0  
Percentage  18.2  43.8  Krick  1  4  5  0  0  1  
Fourth down conversions  o-o  1-1  SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pis  Washel  2  2  4  0  0  0  
Rogers  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Chapman  2  2  4  0  0  0  
Bobich  0  0  2-2  2  0  8  Howard  1  2  3  1  0  1  
Yds/Gm  No  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Anord  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Williams  1  1  2  0  0  0  
109.0  17  109  6.4  0  38  Howard  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Johnson  1  1  2  0  0  0  
78.0  13  78  6.0  2  19  Lohman  2  0  2  0  0  0  
13.0  4  13  3.3  0  5  FIELD GOALS  Tot  Burroughs  2  0  2  0  0  0  
-19.0  7  -19  -2.7  0  5  Bobich  2-2  Owens  1  1  2  0  0  0  

• THE STRATEGIST ••• 

No.Name Pos. HI. WL YR 
JIM COLLETTO 
1 CmigAIIen WR 6·1 180 SR 2 Derrick Brown CB 5-10 175 so 3 John Reeves QB 6-4 205 so 4 Derrick Winston CB 6-0 170 JR 
Fourth season at Purdue. 
5 Willie Tillman WR 6-0 175 so 6 Brad Babich K 6-1 220 SR 
Career Record: 31-6 7-3 
6 T omniy'Tnplett DB 5-{1 166 so 7 Rob Deigan p 6-4 220 SR 
Against Opponent: 0-4 
David Marten QB 6-2 215 JR Trtijo Veasey DB 6-0 184 FR 
Highlights: Colletta enters his fifth year 
Robert Tolbert WR 6-2 180 FR 10 Lee Brush s 5-10 185 so 
at Purdue with much momentum. Has 
11 Mike Hawthorne DB 6·3 185 FA 12 Billy Dicken QB 6-2 190 JR established a young tradition of smash­
13 Rick Trefzger QB 6·2 205 SR 14 Jamal Coleman s 6·0 195 so 
mouth football for the Boilermakers. 
15 Wayne Francis DB 6-1 210 JR 16 Eric Haddad RB 6-1 230 so 17 Adrian Beasley DB 6-0 190 FR 18 Brian Goehl QB 6-2 220 SR 19 Joe Hagins LB 6-0 204 JR 20 Chris Daniels WR 6·3 185 FR 21 Romail Gordon CB 5-11 190 so 22 Bobby Owens CB 5-10 185 SA 23 Willie Burroughs s 5·10 190 so 24 Klrk Olivadotti WR 5-10 180 SR 25 Curtis Taylor RB 6-1 190 so 26 Billy Chapman CB 6-0 185 so 27 Arvia Cooper RB 5-11 240 so 27 Alice Cooper MUS. 6-0 80 OLD 28 Brian Lohman s 6-2 210 SA 29 Reggie Johnson s 5-11 195 JR 30 David Collins WR 5-8 170 so 31 Gregory Reynolds s 5-10 178 so 32 Noble Jones LB 6-2 225 FA 33 Kevin Sellers RB 5-9 230 SR 34 Chike Okeafor LB 6-5 237 so 35 Lee Johnson RB 6-0 200 so 36 Edwin Watson RB 6-0 215 so 37 Dartanian Sanders RB 5-9 227 SR 38 Joe Dl Bella RB 5-11 235 SR 39 Aaron Hall LB 6-1 235 SR 40 Mike Alstott RB 6-2 240 SR 41 WillieHIIS LB 6-'1 200 FR 42 Mike Hartnagel LB 6-3 220 FR 43 Kendall Matthews RB 6-0 200 JR 44 Corey Rogers RB 5·11 210 SR 45 Jim Maciag LB 6-1 230 SR 46 Dirk Handlin LB 6-2 235 SR 47 Chris Zurba LB 6-2 225 so 48 Chris Koeppen LB 5-11 225 SR 49 Chukie Nwokorie DL 6-3 230 FR 50 Scott Dobbins LB 6-1 240 JR 51 Jayme Washel DT 6-2 270 SA 52 Nick Sweeney OT 6-7 320 FA 53 Jon Krick DT 6-2 285 SR 54 Mark Fischer OG 6-4 275 JR 55 Fred Rohlman OL 6-3 290 FR 
CORNERBACK 
22-Wooden

56 Darnell Howard DE 6-2 256 JR 26-Monohan 
57 Mike Szany OG 6-3 285 SR 58 Cmig Williams DE 6-4 250 SR 59 Ben Metzger DT 6-3 268 SR 60 Ernest Pritchett DT 6-1 300 SR 61 Mark Bigonger OT 6-4 290 JR 62 Dino Kaklis s 6-1 236 SA 63 Jim Nledmch OL 6-3 260 FR 64 Damon Lewis OG 6·2 350 JR 65 Pete VanderWeele OT 6-5 285 so 66 Bob O'Connor LB 6-0 235 SA 67 Dave Meyer OL 6-5 265 FA 68 AnieHill OT 6-3 325 SR 69 Chris Sedoris c 6-4 2n SR 70 Darrell Coleman OG 6-4 310 SR 71 Anthony Gutwein DT 6-1 274 so FREE SAFETY 72 Emmett Zitelli OG 6·3 280 SR 17-Mag" 

24-Goooe73 David Cohen DT 6-5 285 FA 74 Wayne Finchum OL 6-4 270 FR 

RIGHT GUARD 

75 John Hoogendoorn OT 6-5 290 JR 72-ZIIelll 76 Dan Maly OG 6-6 275 JR 57-Szany n Chris Hill OT 6-5 285 JR 78 Brian ·Nicley c 6-6 270 JR 79 Chad Manning OT 6-5 300 JR 80 Brian Alford WR 6-2 185 JR 81 Brandon Jewell DE 6-2 253 JR 82 Bill Wleklinski DE 6-5 245 SR 83 Isaac Jones WR 6-0 188 so 84 Jon Blackman TE 6-6 260 JR 85 Chad Brown WR 5-11 170 so 86 Eric Blake OL 6-6 245 FA 87 Lewis Hollowell WR 5-9 165 so 89 Scott Green TE 6-3 252 SA 90 Quentin Blakley DE 6-5 240 so 92 Brandon Kaser p 6-1 175 so 93 Charlie Stephens TE 6-4 250 SA 94 Troy Bacon LB 6-0 215 so 95 Rosevelt Colvin LB 6-3 225 FR 96 Shane Ryan K 5-8 145 so 97 Greg Smith DT 6-3 280 JR 98 Leo Perez DT 6-3 280 JR 99 Mike Burchfield DE 6-5 257 SR 
page 5 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 8, 1995 

• • •  
1  2  3  4  T  PASSING  Comp  AU  Pet  Yda  TD  lnt  Lg  
50  117  82  69  318  Powlus  119  222  53.6  1729  19  9  60  FIELD GOALS  0-29  30-39  40-49  50+  Tol  
26  63  47  103  239  Krug  7  16  43.8  98  1  1  31  Cangia  0-0  4-6  1-2  o-o  5-8  
NO  Opp  RECEIVING  Rec  Yds  Avg  TD  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
First downs  222  218  Mayes  47  847  18.0  11  60  Wachtel  12  35.7  1  48  
Total yards  4230  3661  Stafford  18  254  14.1  3  34  
Total yards per game  384.5  332.8  Mosley  11  118  10.7  0  37  KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TD  Lg  
T alai offensive plays  757  779  Edwards  5  58  11.6  0  39  Mosley  13  24.6  0  47  
Avg. yards per play  5.59  4.70  Wallace  2  21  10.5  1  15  Becton  1  17.0  0  17  
Rushing yards  2372  1538  Farmer  15  15.0  1  15  Stafford  2  14.5  0  19  
Rushing yards per game  215.6  139.8  Kinder  12  12.0  0  12  Farmer  5  12.0  0  14  
Rushing plays  513  444  Sollmann  8  8.0  0  8  
Passing yards  1858  2123  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TD  Lg  
Passing yards per game  168.9  193.0  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rec  Ret  Tot  Avg  Mosley  8  4.4  0  12  
Passes completed  129  190  Mayes  0  847  0  847  77.0  
Passes attempted  244  335  Mosley  187  118  355  660  66.0  INTERCEPTIONS  No  Yde  TD  Lg  
Passes intercepted  11  7  Kinder  702  12  0  714  64.9  Wooden  1  7  0  7  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  22/10  30/15  Edwards  307  58  0  365  33.2  Covington  2  0  2  
Penalties-Penalty yards  55-437  50-433  Stafford  24  254  29  307  27.9  Sample  0  0  0  
Third down conversions  58-149  48-154  Farmer  131  15  60  206  22.9  
Percentage  38.9  31.2  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FR  PBU  Sac  
Fourth down conversions  11-16  12-19  SCORING  TD  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pta  Sample  51  18  69  0  1  5.0  
Mayas  11  1  0-0  0  0  68  Wooden  49  10  59  1  8  0.0  
Yda/Gm  Yde  Avg  TD  Lg  Kinder  4  0  0-0  0  0  24  Wynn  35  14  49  1  1  1.0  
27.9  307  6.4  2  37  Mosley  4  0  0-0  0  0  24  Grasmanis  27  20  47  0  2  2.5  
18.7  187  5.5  4  24  Cengla  0  0  4-7  5  0  19  Cobbins  28  e  34  0  0  1.0  
14.6  131  5.0  0  22  Slafford  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  Berry  17  9  26  0  4  8.0  
4.7  33  11.0  0  14  Powlus  0  0  0  12  Moore  19  25  0  3  0.0  
2.0  14  4  Edwards  0  Dansby  18  0  
0.1  2  0  Tatum  te  0  
-4.4  0  13  
• • •  
Poe.  Hl  WI.  
LOU HOLTZ  Derrick Mayas  WR  6-1  204  SA  
Kinnon Tatum  LB  6-0  216  JR  
Tenth season at Notre Dame. Career Record: 199-90-7 Against Purdue: 10-1 Highlights: Enters Saturday's contest still in search of career win number 200. Coached the Irish to a National Championship in 1988.  Ron Powlus Kory Minor Emmett Mosley Lyron Cobbins Jarious Jackson LaRon Moore 10 Mike Perona 11 Tom Krug 12 Scott Cengia 12 Marlo Strayhorn 13 Bart Barry 13 John Bishop 14 Ivory Covlnglon 15 Allan Rossum 16 Jerry Maloney  QB LB WR LB QB s QB OB K DB LB CB CB CB K  6-2 e-2 5-9 e-o 6-2 5-9 6-1 e-4 5-9 e-2 e-3 5-11 5-9 5-7 5-11  217 225 180 241 215 190 190 206 179 205 230 170 1e1 178 174  JR FA JR JR FA SA JR JR so FA JR JR so so JR  
17 Brian Magee  s  5-10  204  SA  
17 Mark McKenna  QB  5-11  162  JR  
18 Clkal Champion  WR  5-10  191  JR  
19 Marcus Thoma  RB  e-o  224  SA ,  
20 Kevin Kopka  K  5-8  175  FA  
21 ShannM St&phens  RB  5-10  175  FR  
22 Shawn Wooden  CB  5-11  186  SA  
LAST TIME  RECORDS  23 Bill Gibbs 23 Autry Denson 24 Ty Goode  s RB CB  5-10 5-10 5-11  179 175 183  JR FA so  
25 Randy Kinder  RB  e-1  206  JR  
2e Mark Monahan  CB  5-11  164  SA  
Notre Dame 39 Purdue 21 Ray Zellars' spectacular  Notre Dame leads 43­21-2 Last ND win 39-21, 1994  2e Chris McCarthy 27 Bobbie Howard 28 Ken Barry 29 Ronl Enisle 29 A'Janl Sanders 30 Jarvis Edison 31 Robert Farmer 32 Clement Stokes  K LB RB DB DB s RB RB  5-11 5-11 e-o e-o 5-11 6-4 5-10 e-o  194 210 214 180 175 213 208 203  so FA so JR FA so JR so  
62-yard run in the third quarter higlighted Notre Dame's rain-soaked vic­tory. The Irish held PU to just 146 ground yards.  Last PU win: 35-17,1985 Streak : 9 by ND At Ross-Ade Stadium The Irish have won the last four contests.  33 John McLaughlin 34 Jamie Spencer 35 Scott Palumbo 35 Robert Phelps 36 Chlrs Wachtel 37 Jeff Kramer 38 Slm Stokes 39 Benny Guilbeaux 40 Kevin Carretta 41 Joe Sabey 42 Mike Frascogna 43 Bill Wagasy  LB RB p CB p LB CB DB TE LB WR LB  6-4 6-1 5-11 e-o 5-11 6-2 e-o e-4 6-1 8-1 5-8 e-3  222 245 187 185 211 218 185 210 230 227 164 224  so FA SA JR JR so JR FA SA so SA SA  
44 Marc Edwards  RB  e-o  227  JR  
45 Hunter Smith  p  e-3  195  FA  
4e James Jackson  RB  5-10  205  FA  
4 7 Bill Mlloulas  LB  6-1  217  so  
48 Renaldo Wynn  DE  e-3  280  SA  
SPLIT END 1·M•ve•  49 Joe Thomas 52 Alex Mueller  LB OL  e-3 e-e  205 2eO  FA FA  
83-Sollmann  CORNERBACK <l·Winston 22-0wens  53 Lamont Bryant 54 Luke Patllgout 55 ShaRon Jordsn 56 Kurt Belisle  DE OG LB LB  e-4 8-e 6-4 6-2  235 282 230 220  FA so FA so  
RIGHT END*......... ,ll9-Burohfleld  57 Rick Kaczenskl 58 Mike Burgdorf 59 Matthew Kunz 60 Sean Rogers e2 Mike McCullough  c TE s OT NG  e-4 e-o 6-0 5-10 6-2  283 205 209 280 298  JR ,. JR so JR SA  
FULLBACK 44-Edwanll  • 65 Matt Griesbach 66 Jeff Kilburg e7 John Wagner  OG OG OL  e-o e-4 e-8  283 278 300  so JA FA  ..·:.  
69 David Quist  NG  e-e  281  SA  
70 nm Ridder  OL  6-7  280  FA  
71 Jerry Wisne  OL  e-7  282  FA  
~  72 Ryan Leahy 73 Mike Doughty  OG OT  6-4 6-7  286 291  SA JR  
75 Chris Clevenger  OT  e-8  285  JR  
76 Jeremy Akers  OG  e-5  286  SA  
RIGHT GUARD 72-Leahy 54-Petllgout  n Dusty Zeigler 78 Jon Splckalmler 79 Mike Rosenthal 80 Malcolm Johnson  c c OL WR  6-8 e-2 6-7 6-4  292 2e5 290 206  SA so FA so  
81 Charles Slafford  WR  5-9  187  SA  
82 Bobby Brown  WR  6-3  175  FA  
83 Scot1 Sollmann  WR  5-8  180  JR  
84 Dan McConnell  WR  5-8  181  SA  
86 Antwon Jones  DL  e-4  237  FA  
87 Jimmy Friday  LB  6-3  230  FA  
88 Leon Wallace  TE  6-3  285  SA  
89 Mike Denvir  TE  6-3  231  JR  
89 John Cerasanl  TE  6-4  245  FA  
90 Ban Foos  DE  6-4  250  SA  
····~  91 Darnall Smith  DE  6-5  2n  JR  
93 Paul Grasmanis  NG  6-2  279  SA  
94 Justin Orr  WR  e-o  190  JR  
95 Corey Bennett  DE  6-1  228  so  
FLANKER 11-SIIHord 5-Mosley  lEFT END 56-Howard  - 97 Corey Redder 98 Pete Chryplewlcz 99 Cliff Slroud  LB TE DE  e-1 6-5 e-3  220 257 285  so so SA  ..  
49-Nwokorle  

-------:-~---:--,, " " . 
Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
Alstott is very good at doing "some­Much of this thing" with the ball. He specializes in work-ethic was gaining yards and scoring touchdowns. picked up watch­continued from page 1 As a matter of fact, the Joliet Catholic ing NFL growing 
product will probably break Purdue up as a kid. a whole, neither Edwards nor Alstott is 
Fullbacks 
records in both categories before his "John Riggins
under-appreciated. 
senior campaign ends this season. and Tom "I think our fullback played a solid Currently, Alstott's career total of Rathman were game last week," Irish coach Lou Holtz 2,362 yards puts him 998 yards away both guys I said of Edwards. "I think he is a fine from eclipsing the all-time Boilermaker watched a lot 
player." 
record for career yards. Having aver­growing up,"The praise that has been lavished on 
aged over 100 yards per game for the Edwards said. "I the 6'2", 240-pound Alstott is even 
past two season, Alstott, barring injury, guess my style is 
greater. 
looks like a safe bet. very similar to 
"There's no question he's the best full­
In terms of rushing touchdowns, them. I didn't 
back in the country," Wisconsin coach 
Alstott needs to cross the goal-line just necessarily try to 
Barry Alvarez stated. 
once against the Irish to tie the Purdue pattern myselfEdwards himself is almost in awe of 
mark. after them, but it 
Purdue's human battering ram. 
Holtz would not be surprised to see turned out that 
"Mike Alstott is a phenomenal back," that accomplished. way."Edwards said. "He's already proven 
"Alstott is an excellent fullback," Holtz So did Alstott. himself in the last couple years, and this 
noted. "He's a good, tough, hard-nosed "I've never is kind of like my coming-out year." player who gets Purdue tough yards. I seen anyone run Looking. at the two, it is tough not to 
wish we had him at Notre Dame." with as much be tempted into the comparison game. 
Only Holtz would not be completely power as Alstott does and play as ''I'd take a bowl game over a Reisman Though not as big, Edwards definitely satisfied with Edwards manning the all­aggressive," noted Simeon Rice, Illinois' Trophy or any individual award," he carries many of Alstott's qualities. 
important fullback slot. superstar linebacker. said. "If our team does well -which I "He's been there already but we have 
Besides his considerable skills on the That seems to be the consensus in the plan on -then I'll be in the running for very similar styles, speed, and strength. 
gridiron, it is off the field where the Irish Big Ten. it. I'm not just coming out there to equalThere are a lot of similarities," conceded 
may need Edwards just as much. "He has a rare quality of size and last year. I want to improve in everyEdwards. 
"You can tell we're in need of some breakaway ability," said Alvarez. "The aspect of my game. I want to be a com­One of the more prominent similarities leadership," said Edwards, who set an guys in the secondary aren't real crazy plete player." 
is the versatility that each offers his 
Irish record for touchdown by a fresh­about having to come up and tackle Much like their playing styles,offensive coordinator. 
man in 1993. "We've got some guys to him." Edwards' attitude is very much akin to While it is a virtual must that fullbacks that do a pretty good job like Derrick There is a certain legend as to how Alstott's. 
be able to block, Edwards and Alstott (Mayes) and Ron (Powlus) but it never Alstott acquired the much-feared power "You've got to pride yourself in being a also have the talent needed to be a fea­hurts to have too many leaders. I'm go­that strikes such apprehension among good blocker, especially here," he tured runner and more than adequate 
ing to do whatever I can to help the defenders. explained. "It goes along with being a receiver out of the backfield. 
young guys along, especially the younger The Purdue media release that touts running back as much as running the In last week's stunning loss to 
running backs. I'm just going to be a Alstott as a Heis'man Trophy candidate ball and catching the ball, maybe even Northwestern, Edwards caught four 
leader on the field." offers a bit of the story. more. I'm called upon to do a lot of passes, more than the flanker. 
Thus far, the example Edwards has set "Alstott trains in the off-season by blocking, even more than running the Alstott is an even more integral part of on the field has been one of consistency. pushing a station wagon and sprinting ball, but it is definitely a key. " 
his squad's aerial attack. 
While known more as a short-yardage while dragging two Ford Bronco tires While Edwards will surely be focused "I've gone back to 1989 and found 
specialist, the Norwood, Ohio native has behind him." on the task at hand, it is tough not to be every pass pattern thrown to a fullback," 
quietly averaged well over five yards per In the age of highly sophisticated keeping an eye on his counterpart. stated Purdue head coach Jim Colletto. carry in his first 23 games with the Irish. strength training such Rocky-esque feats "I've got to give credit to him for being "Anybody can turn around and hand the 
The fact that Edwards has been able are odd, but one can't argue with the re­a great back," said Edwards. ''I'm look­
ball to the· fullback, but we want Mike to post such numbers is a testament to sults. ing forward to playing against him and getting the ball where he can do some­his surprisingly quick bursts of speed Another thing you can't contest is going head-to-head and seeing what I thing with it." 
and his drive. Alstott's unselfishness. can do." 



•Available for $10 at LaFortune info desk 
•Includes ticket and bus ride to and from the eame 
•Bus leaves at 3:30 ftentativeJ from the JACC Parkina lot -Gate 1 0 
. .. 

SePtember i2 -CubS vs. DOdeers
0 ~ 0 • 
page 7 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, September 8, 1995 

Notre Dame stars have a propensity for prospering in the pros 
Cornerback Tom Carter (Washington catch-phrase around the Notre Redskins) made an interception, while Dame locker room for a number defensive lineman Jim Flanigan of years. (Chicago Bears) recorded two sacks. 
When players speak among them­Notre Dame can boast enough alumni selves about former comrades that are in the pros to support its own team. The now "playing on Sundays," the respect Irish are particularly deep at defensive in their voice is evident. back, with five corners and five safeties 
presently in the NFL. 

P
laying on Sundays has been a 
When head coach Lou Holtz talks about a player having the potential to Surprisingly, only quarterback, which "play on Sundays," it is the ultimate has yielded such professional stars as praise from a man who is rarely given to Joe Theisman and Joe Montana, is spch state!pents. under-represented, as Rick Mirer 
The admiration for those in the NFL -(Seattle Seahawks) has yet to fulfill his the 'Sunday' players -was so great two potential and Steve Beuerlein years ago that the Irish receiving corps, (Jacksonville Jaguars) has made his headlined by Lake Dawson and Derrick career as a journeyman. Mayes, called itself by the self-pro­claimed anagram A.F.R.O.S. -America's iven Notre Dame's early season Finest Receivers On Saturdays -so as woes. though, even Holtz not to disrespect their professional became nostalgic for past Irish counterparts. players who have taken their
G 

The dichotomy between playing on craft to the latter half of the weekend. Saturdays and Sundays has always "(The players) respected Lee Becton existed because involvement in 'Sunday' (Green Bay Packers) and Ray Zellars activity transcends 'play.' The NFL con­(New Orleans Saints). because those notes both elitism and professionalism guys paid a severe price here to earn that somewhat trivializes the traditional that chance to play," said Holtz. "So rah-rah of the college game. they had great respect for Tim Ruddy 
For Irish faithful, however, the distinc­(Miami Dolphins), a senior in pre-medi­tion between the two has become cine that loved the game and showed up increasingly hazy, as seemingly innu­every game.'' 
Dame family' that separates the school However, despite the presence of the merable Notre Dame players go on to The litany continued to include Aaron from its collegiate counterparts remains Notre Dame family, the differencesuccess in the pros each year. Taylor (Packers), Bryant Young (San evident in the pros. between Saturdays and Sundays is notA glimpse of last weekend's NFL Francisco 49ers). Flanigan, Dawson, "Notre Dame really is one big family," lost on McLaughlin.
action gives an indication of just how and Jeff Burris (Buffalo Bills). With the stated Burris, who recounted fraterniz­"Last weekend McBride caught aprevalent the Fightin' Irish are among exception of Becton, who was cut by the ing with Dawson and Carter when the touchdown pass for the Cardinals," hethe game~s elite. Packers in the preseason, all are expect­Bills played their respective teams. says with wider eyes. "I was on therormer Irish stars Oscar McBride, ed to make major contributions to their "The image of Notre Dame is still the scout team playing against him lastLake Dawson, and Tim Brown (with the teams, most in starting capacities. 
same: the other players and coaches are year.
Arizona Cardinals, Kansas City Chiefs, Holtz' praise revealed two traits com­always giving me flak," said Zorich. "It "It's weird to see people you were upand Oakland Raiders respectively) each mon among the players that provide doesn't matter, though, because they're against, who know you by name, playing caught a touchdown pass. insight into their ability to succeed at just jealous." on Sundays."
the next level: respect from their peers Camaraderie between Notre Dame For recent Notre Dame players, being and competitive drive. 

past and present exists as well. on a first-nl!.me basis with the pros hasHowever, Chicago Bears' defensive "Last year when we were at Southern become a regular occurrence.
tackle Chris Zorich, perhaps the poster Cal, Jerome Bettis (St. Louis Rams) hung child for respect and competitiveness, out with the team and ate Thanksgiving Golden Dome Productions contributed

was quick to credit Notre Dame itself for the proliferation of Irish talent in the 
NFL. 

"Playing No. 1 teams on a consistent basis gave me the opportunity to use those experiences of going against the best in the NFL," stated Zorich. "The most important thing, though, is getting the chance to graduate in four years. That's what I'm most proud of." .. 
Despite Zorich's emphasis on educa­tion, make no mistake that the Irish coaching staff utilizes its success in get­ting players into the pros as a recruiting tool. 
"When they recruit, they make it known that 50% of the players the last two years have gone on to the pros," said sophomore linebacker John McLaughlin, who noted that this fact was influential in his decision to come to Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame ranks in the top five col­lege programs currently represented in the NFL, on par with factories such as Florida State, Michigan, and USC. 
However, the much heralded 'Notre 




Friday, September 8, 1995 The Observer •IRISH EXTRA page 8 
~-------------; --­
• JOCK STRIP !·--; TOP l 
: .' 25 ~·~­
. . \ . i. 1 " 
: t t !
Second-chance 
PREY· TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Florida St. (38) 1-0-0 1518 1 2. Nebraska (14) 1-0-0 1467 2 3. Texas A&M (4) 1-0-0 1361 3
sweepstakes 
and students doubt it

I
t's had a week 

4. PennSt(1) 0-0-0 1298 4 
can happen. Teams

to sink in.And 5. Florida (2) 1-0-0 1293 5 it still stinks. In 
that stink talk about 

6. Auburn (2) 1-0-0 1276 6
playing for them­

fact, Notre 
__ 7. Southern Cal 0-0-0 1168 7
selves and not caring

Dame's 17-15 loss to 
1-0-0 1073 B
what everyone else ,/).; 8. T'"""'"' (1)
Northwestern 
~ i 9. Ohio St. 1-0-0 1018 10
does. Notre Dame

exudes a foul stench, 
, , 10. Colorado 1-0-0 972 14
wins for those

one that's drifting 
~···" 11. Michigan 2-0-0 951 13 
out to West Mike Norbut dressed in blue and 
12. UCLA 1-0-0 922 15
gold. Coach's orders . 

. Lafayette, Ind. 
Sports Editor There might be some 13. Alabama 1-0-0 852 11"Purdue can smell 
14. Oklahoma 0-0-0 641 16
attitudes on the field, head coach Lou Holtz said. ~15. Teoca' 
blood in the water." Irish but they'll be straightened 1-0-0 605 18 
• GAMES OF INTEREST 
#16 VIRGINIA at #23 NORTH CAROLINA St. 
The only game this weekend between two ranked teams. The winner should get the privilege of being runner-up to Florida State in the ACC. 
#2 NEBRASKA at MICHIGAN St. 
It could be a rude welcome for new Spartan head coach Lou Saban. But Michigan St. might also rally to take home the upset. 
#12 UCLA at BRIGHAM YOUNG 
These two teams are headed in opposite directions. UCLA upset Miami last week while BYU watched Air Force fly right by them. The game's in Provo, though--watch out. 

"They'll be ready to play." 
But will the Irish? 
The pessimist will say no, that they're going to crawl into a hole and let Mike "All State" Alstott put footprints on their chests. 
The optimist will say, "Hopefully, they can screw their heads on straight and just play hard." 
The true Irish fan will say, "We're going to pound Pur­due's face in!" 
But Notre Dame has no need to worry about beating Purdue. They have to worry about not beating themselves. 
Offensive guard Ryan Leahy said they were lacking in the mental game. But they seem to have changed their atti­tude since then. 
"I don't think there's any­one on this team who's going to say, 'Okay, maybe we'll be 8-3 this year,"' quarterback Ron Powlus said. "We just have to win ten in a row." 
Granted, it could be a tall order, but only because fans out. Veterans and leaders like Powlus, Derrick Mayes and Paul Grasmanis will see to that. And if the attitudes don't subside, Holtz will probably bench them. 
What they can't control are the attitudes in the stands. Don't be so quick to crucify these guys. You might not think they deserve a second chance, but you better if you consider yourself an Irish fan. 
Those who jump on the pessimist bandwagon now aren't allowed on the, "We knew Notre Dame would win all along," wagon come November. 
If the Irish don't have a great year, oh well. At least Irish fans can hang their hats on the fact that they stuck with the team through the tough times. 
For the optimist's sake, let's hope if the team does poorly, they'll end up in the Aloha Bowl or something. 
The Fiesta Bowl wouldn't be duped two years in a row. 

16. Virginia 1-1-0 554 17 17. Arizona 1-0-0 529 19 1B. Washington 1-0-0 388 22 19. Miami 0-1-0 282 12 20. Virginia Tech 0-0-0 265 24 21. Kansas St. 1-0-0 203 
1-0-0 195 
. 

~ 22 Sy<acu" 
123. N. Carolina St. 1-0-0 191 '24. Oregon 1-0-0 187 
. 1 25. Notre Dame 0-1-0 157 9 
CJII 

• PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

Mike Norbut 
(0-4) Notre Dame Virginia Michigan St. UCLA 
Ill THE IRISH ExTRA STAFF Editor: Mike Norbut Managing Editor: Tim Sherman Associate Editor: Tim Seymour Graphic Design: Chris Mullins Contributing Writers: Andy Cabiness, Megan McGrath, Thomas Schlidt 

Tim Seymour 
Tim Sherman 
(2-2) 
(3-1) 
Notre Dame 
Notre Dame 
NC State 
Virginia 
Nebraska 
Nebraska 
UCLA 
UCLA 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 
r----------, r----------,
$5 DEAL $4 DEAL
I I I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5 
Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 

I I I I
The Best Pizta at the Best Price 
Now, That's a Deal! 
Cal/1-6902 
Cal/1-6902

I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 
-1 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95

1-----------1-----------,_j 
$10 DEAL DOUBLE DEAL
I I I I 
I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 I I Pizzas for Only $9 I Cal/1-6902 Cal/1-6902
I I I I 
I COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 COUPON EXPIRES 12/16(95
.J .J
L. 

CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 






