
Monday, November 20, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No.60 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Stock junkies find bargains on regional exchanges 
By MELANIE LAFLIN 
Assistant News Editor 

All those thinking about buying stocks on one of the national Stock Exchanges should consider consulting with one of the experts, Notre Dame's assistant profes­sor of finance, Robert Battalio. Battalio and two col­leagues at Indiana University recently surprised in­vestors nationwide with their study examining pro­grams in Boston and on the Cincinnati regional flxchange. 
Stock prices in the regional exchanges were found to offer competitive rates when compared to those found in the New York Stock Exchange, according to Battalio. 
Two pilot programs on the Cincinnati and Boston 
Notre Dame plays host to Asian American groups 
By KELLY FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 
In an attempt to bring more prominence to the Asian Amnrican community, 27 mid­western universities sent rep­resentatives to tlw "Making Waves and Meeting Chal­lenges-It Begins With You" confemnce which took place for tlw first time at Notre Dame this past WfH~kmul. 
The conference for the Midw11st Asian American Stu­dnnt Union (MAASU), hosted by the Asian American Asso­ciation, consisted of workshops and the fourth annual MAASU Leadership Hetreat. 
As the largest MAASU lead­nrship conference in the four years since its conception, this year's event required a great deal of planning and col­laboration among the groups involved. 
"lljust goes to show that tlwre is a support system here at Notre Dame, that there are people who care," said Michelle Duyongao. co-president of Notm l>anw's Asian American Assodation (AAA). 
The workshops, which start­ed on Saturday, were divided into tracks-Beginning, Intermediate, Advanced, and a group in which only one repre­sentative from each school was invited to participate. Every representative attended four workshops, lasting either one and a half hours or forty-five minutes, throughout the day. 
Workshops were geared to­ward specific categories of is­sues from which representa­tives could construct their own learning package. Several of the workshops were intended especially for Asian American students dealing with campus and community issues, and Asian American awareness and activism. However, other workshops were more general, dealing with event program­ming, networking, leadership and organizational skills, and coalition-building and recruit­ment. There were also Round Table workshops in which rep­resentatives engaged in open discussion on issues. 
According to Duyongao, many 
see MAASU I page 4 


Where Did I Put My Other Gr~~~es~ck'?y 
Senior Jonathan O'Reilly peers into a washing machine inside Flanner Hall while doing his laundry. 
Stock Exchanges are successfully attracting small stock purchase orders and are associated with a decline in the cost of trading securities at quoted prices, according to Battalio. 
The Preferenc.ing Pilot Program in Cincinnati and the Competing Specialist Initiative in Boston, both designed to expand the opportunities available to retail brokerage houses to act as both brokers and dealers, have increased the opportunity for firms to compete with New York Stock Exchange specialists to execute orders in NYSE-listed securities. 
In an 18-month study of 140 NYSE-listed securities, Battalio, Jason Greene and Robert Jennings found that the NYSE's share of small trades on average fell by more than 13 percent when an NYSE-listed security became available through one of the two pilot pro­grams. 
"We were shocked," said Battalio. They had expect­ed to find inferior prices on the regionals but discov­ered just the opposite. Not only were prices better, but trading volume was moving toward the regionals. 
This was not news to many people working at the Boston exchange. Some concede Boston does not do as well with large orders, but yields some ground on smaller retail business. · 
The handling of orders through regional exchanges has come under scrutiny in the recent months. The Securities and Exchange Commission has demanded that brokerage houses do a better job of getting the 
see STOCKS I page 4 



Power Play 
Junior Guy Miller of Alumni Hall plays air hockey with six-year old Derek Mosley in LaFortune as part of the Big Brothers Program. 



Government shutdown ends 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Ending a tense six-day budget standoff, the Republican-con­trolled Congress rushed to enact legislation ending a partial shut­down of government Sunday night after the White House committed to speedy negotia­tions to balance the budget in seven years. 
"Tomorrow the government will go back to work and now the debate will begin in earnest," President Clinton said, appearing in the White House press room shortly after the deal was announced. 
Both sides declared victory ­Republicans because the deal reflected their seven-year timetable and Clinton because it spoke of protecting programs he considers important. 
Under the agmement, nearly 800,000 federal workers will return to work immediately, although govnrnment funding will t~xpirfl again Dee. 15, thfl d11adline for the temporary funding accord. 
Senate Budget Committee Chairman Pete Domenici, H­N.M., said, "I hope in the next three or four weeks we will pro­duce a balanced budget with the president on board." 

In the four-week spending bill, the White House and Re­publicans agreed the balanced budget legislation would "pro­tect future generations, secure Medicare solvency, reform wel­fare, provide adequate funding for Medicaid, education, agricul­ture, national defense, veterans 
'Tomorrow the gov­
ernment will go back to work and now the debate will begin in earnest.' 
President Clinton 
and the environment." 
In a compromis11 that was key to the agreement, the two sides agreed that the Congressional Budget Officp, will measure whether or not any eventual budget deal eliminatP.s dnfirits, but only after COQsulting with the White House and other gov­ernment and private eeono­mists. 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, H-Kan., and House Speaker Newt Gingrich, H-Ga., and their chief deputies held a news conference where they were barely able to contain their euphoria. 
"All I can say is, 'Yes!"' House Budget Committee Chairman John Kasich, R-Ohio, said, thrusting two clenched fists in the air. 
At the end, Dole was asked. "Who blinked?" He responded with two words and a smile, "Seven years." 
But Clinton said the agree­ment "repmsents the first sign of their (Hepublicans') willing­ness to move forward without forcing unacceptable euts...on the American people." 
Sunday's negotiations oc­curred amid increasing signs of restiveness among federal employees and the public. Forty percent of the federal work force -nearly 800,000 employ­ees-have been furloughed since Nov. 13. 
Clinton and Congress still have a lot of nngotiating left and if they cannot resolve their deep differenr:es, tllll governn11~nt could again bt~ shut down n•~xt month al'tPr tlw expiration of tlw temporary nwasurn rwgotiawd Sunday. 
Senate Minority Leader Thomas Daschle, D-S.D., and the White House chief of staff, Leon Panetta, said the Democrats would be able to pro­tect Medicare, Medicaid, educa­tion, and the environment. 



page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, November 20, 1995 
• INsmE CoUJMN 
Integratedtiut segregated 
I am writing to inform -------­others that are against Andrea Jordan separatism and that Accenr Copy Editor believe integration has truly replaced segregation. 
In one of my classes a good friend of mine pointed out that American society, while inte­grated, is still segregated. Upon hearing this, 
I. as an African-American, knew it to be true. Though everyone has the opportunity to sit and join together with people of other races, we usually join with our own race because we feel more comfortable with them. We know they won't question us when we do something considered normal for us but weird to others. An example of such separa­tion is the dining halls. In both there are a few tables where predominantly blacks and some other minorities sit. Several white peo­ple ask me "Why do all the blacks sit togeth­er?" I reply "Why do all the whites sit togeth­er?" I can't recall how many times whites ask me questions like that one and other tedious questions. 
I find these questions not only tiring but funny because blacks and other minorities generally do not question why many whites do certain things because we are made to live in their world everyday. This is a white America, and they are the ones in power; therefore, they may never have to go through a minority to achieve their goals. However, minorities must encounter whites and go through their systems and their channels to achieve much of what we want. This situa­tion causes me to live in two worlds. One world is white, and the other is black. All people of color do not live in this turmoil because some have either found a balance or shamefully assimilated. 
Assimilation is a dirty thing that I see daily, 
especially on this campus. Many argue that 
they have not assimilated but that they have 
simply integrated into society. This white 
society does not allow people to totally inte­
grate without assimilating. White America 
wants integration. but they want a melting 
pot where we all forget our cultural differ­
ences and join together in harmony. 
People of color have been compromising for 
years. When will whites compromise and 
come to our side for once? I can't and I 
won't forget my culture to make a white per­
son accept me. I would never disgrace my 
ancestors by doing such a thing. My people 
have helped build this country. my people 
have fought for this country and they have 
shed blood for and because of this country. I 
could never dream of forgetting all that and 
assimilating into a race that has killed and 
raped my people since they came to America. 
I am proud of my people and our culture; 
therefore. white America will never be able 
to label me as their "assimilated token black" 
or their "Uncle Tom." Sadly enough, howev­
er. America has been able to label some of 
my people these names. Whites have brain­
washed them into thinking white is the ideal 
race. Whites: a race that has murdered, 
raped and stolen land from people of color 
throughout history, while simultaneously 
labeling us savages and mongrels. In the 
presence of all this I am still proud to be an 
American because my people underwent too 
many atrocities just to be considered human 
by whites. 
Sadly, history has proven that America will probably remain integrated but segregated; therefore. I will continue to live in two worlds rather than assimilate. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 

Six million Americans taking heart drug without benefit 
ANAHEIM. Calif. 
When the smoke had cleared, the two cardiologists agreed on only one thing: Millions of Americans with high blood pressure are taking costly and possibly harm­ful drugs with no proof they work. 
A spirited debate was held Thursday at an American Heart Association meeting in response to a March report that the drugs. while lowering blood pressure. might in­crease the risks of heart attack by 60 percent. 
"There have been some serious questions raised and we need to get to the bottom of it," the heart associa­tion's president, Dr. Sidney Smith Jr. of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, told reporters before the debate. "Hypertension is a major clinical problem and it is not well treated at this time." 
The debate drew a standing-room-only crowd of more than 1,000 cardiologists to the usually sparsely attended final session of the heart association's annual scientific meeting. 
The March report triggered a huge disagreement among cardiologists over whether the drugs might actu­ally cause harm. Last week's debate failed to put that question to rest. But, for the first time. it drew striking agreement from some of the nation's leading researchers that there is no evidence the drugs prevent heart dis­ease, strokes or deaths. 
Smith and four other cardiologists at the news confer­ence agreed that while the drugs lower blood pressure, the evidence of reductions in deaths and disease is lack­ing. 

Source: American Hean Association: The Pill Book AP/R. Toro 
Diana against divorce from Charles 
LONDON 
She doesn't want a divorce, values her royal role and desperately wants her children to be happy. And she un­derstands her husband's decision to confess his infidelity to millions of TV viewers. It's a resigned, reasonable, re­gal Princess Diana who emerges from a surprise tell-all interview with the BBC, The Sunday Telegraph reported, pub­


lishing what it said were quotes gleaned from unnamed "television insiders." The BBC dismissed the newspa­per's account of the encounter as "total speculation." "Only eight people have seen the· program, none of them has talked about it and no one else has been given any indication of what is in it," a BBC statement said. In the interview, to be broadcast in Britain on Monday night, Diana concedes that her marriage to Prince Charles is over, but asked if she wants a divorce, she reportedly replies, "No. There are two children involved here." Charles and Diana, who married in 1981 and separated in December 1992, have two sons, Prince William, 13, and 11-year-old Prince Harry. 

Perot claims he holds swing vote 
WASHINGTON 
Ross Perot said Sunday his new independent party has the power to elect a new president, either on its o~ or by delivering the swing vote to either the Democratic or Republican nominee. The Texas billionaire, speaking on NBC's "Meet the Press," declined to say whether he will be the Reform Party's candidate in tl;le 1996 presidential poll. "This is not about me," he said. "We wouldn't need to form a new party if my goal was to run." But he cited poll figures showing that 62 percent of Americans sup­port creation of a third party. and stressed that his party could win "if we come up with a good candidate, if we stay on principle." The Reform Party has collected enough signatures to earn a place on the presidential ballots in California and Ohio, and now is campaigning to qualify in Maine and other states. Perot said that if either party nominates "George Washington the second," that candidate could win the endorsement of his backers. 


Baby cut from mother's womb alive 
ADDISON, Ill. 

A newborn boy was alive and healthy Sunday after be­ing cut from the womb of his mother during an atta~k that killed her and two other children. A prosecutor said authorities believed the killings were planned. and that there appeared to be no relationship to drugs or devil worship. One person was in custody on a kidnapping charge, but no one was charged with the killings. Investi­gators refused to say where or how the baby was found. who was suspected in the case. or even to confirm whether they believe the killer or killers removed the child frorri Deborah Evans' body. "There was a deep slash, an incision across the abdomen." said DuPage County Coroner Richard R. Ballinger. "You can take what's obvious." Another child, 19-month-old Jordan, was found unharmed, shaking in a back bedroom in the apartment. Ballinger said police were withholding some information to help their investigation. The baby. named Elijah by relatives, was found early Friday, when Evans, 28, and 10-year-old daughter, Samantha, were found murder.ed in her apartment in this Chicago suburb. au­thorities said. Police searching for Ms. Evans' 8-year-old son Joshua found his body about 12 hours later. 

Mayor apologizes for naked pose 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Mayor Frank Jordan. trailing in his re-election bid. is apologizing for posing naked in his shower with two radio disc jockeys. "In this particular incident, some peo­ple felt I had let them down, that I had let the city down," said Jordan, who faces former state Assembly Speaker Willie Brown in a Dec. 12 runoff. ''And I do apologize. It was never my intent to offend anyone." The above-the­waist photo published in local newspapers in late October revealed Jordan standing pale and naked next to similarly attired DJs Mark Thompson and Brian Phelps. The two, accompanied by a photographer, had knocked on Jordan's door and dared him to do it. Jordan said the stunt revealed nothing more than a sense of humor. "I just wanted to show that we are also a fun-loving city and that we all need some humor in our lives," he said. Jordan said he did not know if the photo ruined his re­election hopes. "But I'm sure it didn't help," he said. 
Monday, Nov. 20 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast lor noon, Monday, Nov. 20. 

Pressure 
H L BISSl!TIJ 0~ 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW 




News Viewpoint Kristi Kolski Mike O'Hara Bill Connolly Production 
Sports Jana Bruder Rafael Gonzalez Kira Hutchinson Dave Bradley Lab Tech Graphics Tom Johannesen Tom Roland Katie Kroener 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduclion rights are reserved. 
Via Associated Press 
Atlanta 67 49 Dallas 66 43 New Orleans 77 56 Baltimore 50 32 Denver 50 25 New Vorl< 52 39 Boston 45 38 Los Angeles 77 55 Philadelphia 51 37 Chicago 46 27 Miami 80 66 Phoenix 85 56 
Via Assoclat9d Press GraphicsNst 0 1995 AccuWeather. Inc. 

Columbus 46 26 Minneapolis 43 27 St. Louis 56 33 

---~--~~­
.-----­
-----------~---­

Monday, November 20, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 
Pacific leaders move closer to free-trade pact 
By MARCUS ELIASON 
Associated Press 
OSAKA, Japan 

Pacific Rim leaders took an­other step Sunday toward building a free-trade zone, buoyed by China's promise to slash tarifl's and to ease foreign access to its fast-growing mar­kets starting next year. 
Their enthusiasm apparently undimmed by President Clin­ton's absence over the U.S. budget crisis, leaders at the Asia-Pacific Economic Coop­nrution summit offered "down payments" on the pledge made last year to liberalize trade over the next quarter-century. 
The pledges ranged from deregulating industries and lowering tarifTs to trimming the red tap11 that bedevils regional trade. 
The 18 APEC nations are the source of 50 percent of world trade and growing. They in­elude the world's two biggest economies, the United States and .Japan, and China, one of its fastest-growing. 
Leaders in Osaka said they understood why Clinton 
._~~club Column 
The ITALIAN CLUB is sponsoring adinner at Bruno's for all dues-paying members next Thursday, November 30th at 5:30 pm. If you are interested in going, call Dave (4-0919) or Jerry (4-101 0) by tomorrow. 
The BIOLOGY CLUB will be showing the movie Outbreak at 7:00 pm on Nov. 21st in 126 DeBartolo. It's free and refreshments will be served. EVERYONE is welcome, so come on over and join us. 
171/.o; sen1it·e isfJmvided fcJr you by tilt' Club Coordination Coun.cil. 6314078 206 LaFortune 
NEED A JOB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" to fill staffing assignments for area families in need of child care services. 
0 Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that mec:t your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
to find out more! 
Metnorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bc:nd, IN 46635 
couldn't make it, but it was impossible to erase the funda­mental message his cancella­tion left: an American presi­dent, preoccupied with troubles at horne, was unable to attend to business in Asia. 
His stand-in, Vice President AI Gore. insisted this was not true. "Our future lies in Asia," he said, and promised that Clinton would visit Japan soon. 
Japan had been counting on Clinton to defuse bad feelings over the rape of a 12-year-old Okinawan girl for which three 
U.S. servicemen are being tried -an incident that has prompt­ed some Japanese to demand 
Washington  withdraw  its  
47,000 troops here.  
The  U.S.  commander  of  

forces in the Pacific, Richard C. Macke, exacerbated the ten­sions Friday by suggesting the men should have paid for sex instead of committing rape. Macke resigned the same day. 
The APEC economic blue­print, adopted at last year's summit, calls for free trade by 2010 for its richer member countries. and 2020 for the poorer ones. 
Gore stands in for Clinton 
By LAURA KING 
Associated Press 
OSAKA, Japan 
Apologizing is an art form in Japan, and even during the most abbreviated of visits, Vice President AI Gore had plenty of 
opportuni­ties to prac­tice it. 
He spent only 30 hours on the ground here, but during that 

time he was Gore 
Hllppy2JB 
Birthdlly 
]usdn! 
Love1 
Mom1 Dad aV\d E~iV\ 

Study abroad spring semester in FRANCE or ZIMBABWE 
through Syracuse University 
Application Deadline: Decemher 11 call or email for details 
DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD 1-800-235-3472 • email: dipa@suadmin.syr.edu 

HELP WORLD HUNGER COALITION 
THANKSGIVING 
FOOD BASKETS! 
MONDAY, NOV. 20 AT STEPAN CENTER 
3:00-4:30 PM ASSEMBLE 4:30-6:30 PM DISTRIBUTE 
QUESTIONS ? CALL AMY AT *2992 
busy expressing almost non­stop regret and remorse. 
In between, he fought what appeared to be a roaring case of jet lag, listened to long speeches in Japanese, and nearly gagged on a mouthful of bitter green tea at a garden ceremony. 
All in all, it was the kind of assignment that makes people wonder why anyone would want to be vice president. 
Gore was thrown into the breach when the White House announced Tuesday night ­Wednesday morning in Japan, as the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum began ­that President Clinton couldn't go due to the budget crisis. 
The Japanese had spent months making elaborate plans for Clinton's post-summit state visit to Tokyo. Elaborate apologies were in order. 
Then, while Gore was en route to Tokyo, Japanese sen­sitivities were inflamed by a 
U.S. admiral's remark that three American servicemen accused of raping a 12-year­old schoolgirl could have hired a prostitute for the price they paid for the rental car al­legedly used in the attack. 
... 2020," Mahathir told re­porters. 
Chinese President Jiang Zemin said developing nations "need more time since they face greater pressures, risks and difficulties." 
But it was Jiang who ap­peared to put flesh on the APEC dream by announcing that China will, "effective from 1996, drastically reduce its overall tariff level by a margin of no less than 30 percent." 
l-Ie did not elaborate. But China's vast exports generate large trade deficits with the United States and others, and any tariff cut would make it easier for foreigners to sell products in China. 
South Korean President Kim Young-sam pledged that his country would open more than 200 types of business to foreign investment in the next five years. He promised to simplify customs clearance for exports and imports. 
Pacific Rim leaders also hint­ed at the possibility that their countries could be moving, albeit slowly, toward some kind of a regional security pact. 
But as an economically di­verse region, APEC is deeply split on the pace and scope of free trade, with China and Malaysia leading the argument that developing countries can­not march in step with indus­trialized ones. 
Thus, while the free-trade camp Jed by the United States sees 2010 and 2020 as a bind­ing deadline for reaching zero­tariff rates, Malaysian Prime Minister Dr. Mahathir Mohamad says each country must choose its own pace. 

"We're not held down to this date and we certainly do not believe that it means we have to abolish tariffs altogether by 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, November 20, 1995 

Stocks 
continued from page 1 
best price for small investors, and in response one major firm recently stopped automatically routing small-investor orders in NYSE-Iisted sto.cks to region­al exchanges. 
"The SEC has said that in or­der for the pilot programs in Boston and Cincinnati to be permanently extended, it must be proved that the programs improve market quality," Bat­talio said. "Every statistic we examined indicated that mar­ket quality from a trader's per-
MAASU 
continued from page 1 
representatives told Notre Dame organizers that their own groups were disorganized and that this conference was what they had been looking for to get their groups on track. 
"We learned how difficult it is to put something like this together, but I'm glad that we took the risk; Notre Dame, the club, and we are better for it," said Duyongao, who began preparations this past summer for the conference. 
The banquet and keynote for the occasion took place at The Great Wall restaurant, and entertainment was provided by "Here and Now," a student act­ing group that tours campuses across the United States. The group was brought here through the efforts of several campus organizations. 
"We hope that we made a positive impact and that we helped to dispel a lot of the stereotypes and misconcep­tions that are out there," said James Adaniya, also co-presi­dent of the MA. 
spective has been improved. The prices at which orders are executed were often better tban quoted prices, and the quoted prices are getting bet­ter." 
"We were surprised by our results because we expected just the opposite. But the re­gional specialists know they have to be competitive," said Battalio. 
The study was conducted from January 1994 to June 1995 and was executed the month immediately preceding and the month immediately fol­lowing NYSE-listed securities becoming available in either pi­lot program. 
The Boston Globe contributed to this report. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Ski trip turns fatal for students 
By THIERRY BOINET 
Associated Press 
GRENOBLE, France 
American student Brent VanHala hiked out into the snow seeking help after a bliz­zard stranded him and six of his friends on a mountain dur­ing an Alpine ski trip. 
"It was after I left that they died," VanHala, 21, said Sun­day from his hotel in Tignes in a telephone interview. 
Two of the students per­ished, and four others re­mained hospitalized Sunday in serious condition, suffering from hypothermia; their body temperatures had dropped to about 86 degrees. Two of the students have frostbite. 
VanHala was the only one of the students to survive un­harmed. 
The seven were juniors at Miami University in Oxford, 

lt~~~~~~~~~~~ 
~ nwuc:~;;;~7;~:~;~~···' ~ 
~ Songs o:Wi~d, Waves, Crickets & Praise ~ 
S\The Umvetslty of Notre Dame Chorale&~ 
~  Chamber Orchestra  ~  
~  Alexander Blachly, Director  ~  
~  8:00p.m.  ~  
Tuesday, November 21  ~  
~  Washington Hall  

Ohio, studying in Luxembourg. They went to the ski slope in Tignes, near the Italian bor­der, for a weekend trip, but got lost and spent a terrifying night stranded in the storm. 
The group was ill-equipped for the trip up the 8,000-foot Grande-Motte mountain, wearing jeans and sweaters instead of ski suits, the ski slope manager said. 
After they strayed from the marked trail, a blizzard hit, forcing them to spend the night in the shelter of some over-hanging rocks. 
The next morning at dawn, VanHala, of North Canton, Ohio, spotted the ski lift line in the distance and trekked down the slope for help. An Alpine rescue squad rushed to the mountain by helicopter. 
By the time it arrived, Re­becca Andrew, 20, of Bath, Ohio, and Christopher Egger-ton, 21, of Mansfield, Ohio, had frozen to death. 
On Friday, while the skiers were on the slope, operators shut down the lift two hours early, at 2 p.m., due to the storm. Security teams then surveyed the slope for strag­glers. 
The students went unde­tected because they had left the trial, said Roger Bouzon, assistant manager of the Tignes ski slope. 
lie also said the group left its equipment 300 yards from the edge of the trail and hiked 500 yards farther to spend the night. 
"It was a wrong turn by us. There was no fault on the part of the operators," VanHala said. He refused to comment any further. 
The four injured were re­covering in three French hos­pitals Sunday. 


Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 

StyleWriter' 1200 

Ink cartridge and cable induded. 
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, Deferred Payment Plan, you can take home aMacNwithout having to make asingle in fact, that prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than payment for up to 90 days.tWhich means you can also take home the Ap .;. their already low student prices. And with the AppltComputer Loan and 90-Day power to make any student's life easier. The power to be your best~ p1€W. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
'Hey, you wouldnl giwyour money away to just anyone, wouldyou? Neither can u~. Offers expirejanuary 15, 1996. No payment ofprincipal or interest will be requiredfor 90 days. Interest accruing during this 90-day period will be added to the principal and wiD bear interest which will be induded in the repayment schedule. 'The monthly payment quoted abow is an estimate based on a to/a/loan amount of$1,913.83, which indudes asample purchaseprice of$1.799for the Performa 6214CD system shown above. The Iota/loan amount also indudes a 6.0% loan origina­twn fee. Interest is variable based on the Commercial Paper Rate plus a spread of635%. For example, the month ofOc/ober 1995 had an interest rate of12.17% with an annual percentage rate (APR) of13.95%. Monthly paymentfor tbe total loan amount described abow would be $32.86. Monthly fNiymenl atulAPR shown IISSUmes IW deferment ofprliiCifNI/atul does not Include state or local sales tax. Monthly fNiyments may vary depending on actual computer system prices, total loan amounts, state atulloca/ st~les taxes, atula change In tbe monthly variable Interest rate. Prequalijicalion expedites the loan process, but does not guarantee final loan approval. Subsequent acceptable verification documents must be received beforeyour loan is approved IWJew, pop quiz on Monday. ©1995 Apple Computer; Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh and "The power to beyour best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Mac is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. CordShop Plus is a registered trademark ofMindscape. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to individu­als with disability. 7b learn more (US. only), call 800-600-7808 or TTY 800-755-0601. 

HOT. 

Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 
MAC. 

Not the burger, pal-the killer computer. 




---~-~-------~-----~-----, 
page 5 

Monday, November 20, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Epidemics hit Latin America, threat to U.S. low 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA. Colombia 

September: In a remote Colombian peninsula, thou­sands of Indians fall ill. As fam­ily memb!lrs watch helplessly, some of the victims become delirious, go in to convulsions and die. 
Oetober: Hundreds of people, stricken with fevers and body aches, crowd a village clinic in Nkaragua. Autopsies on those who succumb discover their lungs are filled with blood. 
Specialists scrambled in recent weeks to deal with these outbreaks of rare diseases. But while they are dangerous and alarming, epidemics of more eommon diseases like cholera and dengue fever have quietly spread through Latin America and are elaiming thousands of lives each year. 
Ilealth experts say minor outbreaks of diseases imported from Latin America can be 11xpneted in the United States. But they say there is little risk of epidemics because the United States has adequate insecticide spraying and proper sanitary systems. 
The problem in Latin America is the laek of financial 
We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 

*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
resources to pay for the medi­cines, insecticides and other steps needed to cure diseases or control the conditions that help spread them. 
In the 1950s and 1960s, Latin American nations tried to eradicate the mosquito that carries dengue. Insecticide­spraying pushed the mosquito, Aedes aegypti, back to a few pockets in the jungle and almost wiped it out. But the effort was dropped because of high costs. 
This past week the Pan American Health Organization announced that Aedes aegypti has regained the territory it formerly occupied. It said dengue is raging in Latin America, sickening 200,000 people and killing 76 this year alone. 
"In the past couple of decades we let down our guard," said David Ueymann, director of the World Health Organization's new Epidemic 
·Strike Force. 
An international conference 
to be held in Brazil on Nov. 30 
is aimed at renewing the mos­
quito-eradication efforts. 
Doctors are also busy fighting 
new diseases. 
Well Partner, You finally arrived 
Happy 21sr Birthday Tom Horenkamp 
Waves ofcholera and dengue hit Central and South America. 

Cholera symptoms include diarrhea, vomiting, muscle cramps and dehydration. If untreated, more than half the victims die. ;~ Human feces contain the cholera germs. >~ The bacteria is spread by flies and the · unsanitary handling of food. 
+TREATMENT Once cholera is in remission, antibiotics are used to eliminate the disease. Rehydration is accomplished either orally with water or, in severe cases, with an intravenous solution. 
Dengue is transmitted by the bite of amosquito:n.. 
Symptoms range from fever and aches to red 

spots on the skin, bleeding from the nose or gums, vomiting and pale or clammy skin. Hemorrhagic dengue is potentially fataL  ,  •. '  .  ~ '~· . "«<  
+PREVENTION  

Measures taken to lower fever and rehydrate the body ease symptoms, but there are no vaccines or drug cures for dengue. Prevention is the best combatant, and simple sanitation measures can eliminate areas where mosquitos breed. 
AP!Tracie Tso 
7P~i~1h:.:~~.~:~:,s From$1nd & Ch
ianapol)ls icago 
• 
RIT Non-Slop Au1are 

• 
7 Nights Hotel Accom. 


49
• 
R/T Airpor1 to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP Party Package: FREE cover charges, FREE par1ies, FREE food & drinks, EXCLUSIVE apeciel events OVER $150 tn savlngsl 


LOWEST PRICES· BEST HOTELS· BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP AND TRAVEL FREEl 
c~LL COLLECtE TOURS ,.oo~"' 800-)95-4896 
Pnt*l p.r p•non, plu• lll••• Public Ch•rt•n Ilia Norttr.-•t A1rt1nn (A·320). Tour Op•ralor 11 Funqunt Vaeabons. D•taJI• It! Op/Part Conlrlllll 

LAST CHANCE TO REGISTER! 
free transportation 

MIN 0 R I Ty 
and admission for all minority juniors and Seniors!

CAREER Friday 
:r~~~~~.~ 
Arthur Andersen 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System Boston Consulting Group CNA Insurance Companies Compaq Computer Corporation 
Ernst & Young LLP Fidelity Investments Florida Power & Light Company 
General Motors Delphi-Saginaw 
Steering Systems, GMC 
Hewitt Associates Manor Care, Inc. Mercer Management Consulting Price Waterhouse LLP Principal Financial Group Prudential Insurance Prudential Securities 
RR Donnelley & Sons 
SEO 

U.S. 
Marine Corps 

U.S. 
Navy 

U.S. 
Secret Service 


PLUS MANY MORE !!! 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 

Call 234-0363 
(24 hours) 
SOUTH BEND 

417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 
BRAZIL VENEZUELA HONDURAS NICARAGUA 

9,296 ~,...:£~·?.''~--· EL SALVADOR , ~;,:, ..::.EXICO
6 525 
COSTA RICA 4,786 -=::::'!' GUATEMALA 3,402 ~: 
ECUADOR 2,899 a;: PANAMA 2,124 ~ 
PERU 2,059 B

DENGUE 
CASES 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

AND +
1,252

DEATHS 
ENGLISH CARIBBEAN 2821 This year's heavy rainfall favored mosquito production, 
COLOMBIA 

adding to the spread of dengue. 107.+1
I CASES • DEATHS 
• Incomplete number 

As of Nov. 15 
The Fairmont Hotel Chicago, IL 
TO REGISTER,sendorfaxyourresume 
with 3 industry preferences on the back to: 
Crimson & Brown A1Sociates, Inc 201 Broadcmy Cambridge, MA 02139 
(617)868-0181 phone (611) 868-0187 fax 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE EXTENDED TO: December 6 
Meet and Interview with leading employers! 
---.,
~ -­
page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 20, 1995 
• POLAND 


Former Communist edges Carter 01ourns genocide victi01s 
By CHRIS TOMLINSON talks. and Vice President Paul
Walesa in runoff election 
Associated Press Carter said he wanted his tour Kagamea, and also talked with 
By ANDRZEJ STYLINSKI 
Associated Press 
WARSAW 
A polished former Commu­nist, Aleksandei' Kwasniewski, defeated faded Solidarity hero Lech Walesa by a slim margin in a presidential runoff Sunday, according to projections from the state polling agency. 
Kwasniewski won 51.4 per­cent of the vote to 48.6 percent 
the capital of

for the incumbent, according to our greatest hope," 
Kigali,

unofficial ballot results com­Kwasniewski told chanting sup­

Carter's Carter

piled by state television's OBOP porters. 
hosts showed

agency from 1,150 of 22,472 No matter who wins, he said, 
him dozens of decomposed bod­
precincts. the country has many problems 
ies in the chapel and thousands
The projections had a 1 per­to solve and must overcome 
of skulls stacked outside, evi­
cent margin of error, and the historical divisions if it is to 
dence of three weeks of terror
race was so close neither can­achieve its goal of membership 
there in April1994. 

didate acknowledged victory or in the European Union and 
"It is one of the worst things
defeat. NATO. 
I've seen in my life," Carter
The election was a symbolic After leading the movement 
said. "I hope those who are
duel between Poland's two that toppled the Communists 
responsible will be brought to
major postwar forces. Walesa six years ago, Walesa saw 
justice, or else it could happen
keyed his campaign to fears of Solidarity splinter into different 
again."

a Communist resurgence while camps he was unable to unite. 
Carter's visit lays the ground­
Kwasniewski insisted he could Kwasniewski is the dynamic, 
work for Nov. 27 talks in Cairo
be trusted to transcend his media-savvy leader of a party 
on the region's refugees.
party's totalitarian past. that regrouped in 1990 under 
Leaders of Uganda, Rwanda.
Kwasniewski, 41, had already the banner of social democracy 
Burundi and Zaire asked the
left his headquarters when the and won control of parliament 
former president to mediate the
projections were announced, in elections three years later. 
resign if the results stuck. The others are Foreign Minister Wladyslaw Bartoszewski and Interior Minister Andrzej Milczanowski. 
Kwasniewski expressed satis­faction that the 68.8 percent voter turnout was post­Communist Poland's highest, thanks to young voters. 
"Those young people without historical sentiments or prej­udices are our greatest chance, 


triggering a joyful frenzy among youthful campaign workers. They danced, screamed and sang "May He Live 100 Years." 
The 52-year-old Walesa never appeared at his cam­paign headquarters, where supporters fell silent upon hearing the news and slowly began filing out. 
Walesa, the former Solidarity leader, had steadily lost sup­port during his five-year term. He looked dour as he thanked supporters in a brief appear­ance just after polls closed and retired with his family. 
Although official results were not expected until Monday at the earliest. the reaction to the OBOP agency's reports reflect­ed its record in accurately pre­dicting election outcomes based on a careful selection of precincts. 
Defense Minister Zbigniew Okonski said he and the other two ministers named by Walesa for the leftist Cabinet would 

Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page Color Calalog Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet Catalog at http: l/www.sapeck.com/sapeck 
0MPUS 
tvliNISlRY 
5804 Grape Rd. • Indian Ridge Plaza 

KIGALI 
Confronted by victims' skulls and survivors' horrifying tales, former President Carter held back tears Sunday during his fact-finding mission into Rwanda's genocide and its refugees. 
At a church memorial in to remind the world of the geno­cide in which more than 500,000 Rwandans, mostly minority Tutsis and moderate Hutus, were slain by Hutu-led government troops and militias. 

"I think it is important that I visit here and bring attention to what happened, because the international community forgets too easily," he said. 
Carter met separately with President Pasteur Bizimungu 
Western diplomats and aid workers. 
On Saturday, Carter met Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni. He will continue to Burundi on Monday and Goma. Zaire, on Tuesday. 
The genocide began soon after the April 6, 1994 plane crash in Kigali in which then-President Juvenal Habyarimana and the president of neighboring Burundi died. 
No Need To Look Guilty, Earth Pig,
._"''""'
Happy Birthday, Kristen Johanns! 
Love, 
Ann and Kahuna 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart University of Notre Dame 
Thanksgiving Day Mass 
Thursday November 23, 1995 
11:30 a.m. 
No 5:15p.m. Mass on Thanksgiving Day 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 20, 1995 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OHICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John L.uc:t> 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Eliz;rb<rh Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ....... , ................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'llara Ad Design Manager ...................... )en Mackowiak Spuru Editor ............................ MikC' Nnrbur Prodm:tion Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Ac.:ccnr Editor ......................... Krista Nannrry Syncms Manager ............................ Sean GaJlavan l'lwto Ediror .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Perc Coleman Sotifll Mary's E,litor .................... Patti Carson Coni roller .............................................Eric Lorge 
!"he ( lh>crver is 1he independent new>paper puhli.hed by the snrdenrs of rhe Universiry of Notre IlJIHl' du Lu. and Saint Mary's College. It docs nor ncceJ>sarily rcncct the policies of the adminisua­tion uf citlu·r ln!.tllulion. ThC' news is reponed as .t.cxur.ncly and objt"ccivdy as possible. Unsigned cdi­tori.tl\ rcprc!ri.C'nl rhc opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Vacwpuant Edicur, Accrnt Edfwr. Phow Ediwr, Sports Editor, and Sainr Mary's Editor. ( :ommcnt.ulc\, IC'Ut'n ;md Inside ( :olumns pre~cnt the views of the amhors, and not necessarily rhose of The.-Oh\crvcr. ViC'wpo1111 l>p.u.:c is avllilablc ro .t.ll members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­rnuruty ;mJ w JJI readers. The free c:xpre\Sion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor· in-Chid" 6.11-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Manag1ng Edimr/ViC"wpuint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spun.\ 6.11-4~43 Systerm/Marketing Depr. 631-8839 Nr:ws/Phoro 631-~.U3 Office M;.1nager 631-7471 Acccnt/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 llay Editnr/l'roduction 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu ( ;cnr:rt~llnf«•rmauun 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Emphasis on research dilutes Catholic character 
Nothing is certain except death and taxes. Hight? I can think of one excep­tion. You can safely bet the rent money that the reappointments of Fathers Malloy and Bnauchamp, as President and Executive Vice-President, and the appointment of Nathan llatch as Provost, will intensify Notre Dame's drive for reeugnition as a Great National Catholie Heseareh University. This is so, not rnnrely because those leaders helinvn that such is in the best intnrest of Notre Dame, but because that eourse was praetieally foreordained by a deci­sion made by the 
"To perform its teaching and research functions effectively, the Catholic univer­sity must have a true autonomy and aea­demic freedom in the face of authority of any kind, external to the academic com­munity itself." Notre Dame had been owned by the Congregation of Holy Cross from 1842 until 1967 _ In that year, Notre Dame, like most major Catholic universities, aeted on Land O'Lakes by transferring governance of the University to a predominantly lay I3oard of Trustees, thus severing its juridical link with the Church. 
Notre Dame 

University nearly 
ought to recon­three decades ago. sider its adher­The drive for ence to the Land Hnsflan:h Greatness O'Lakes mandate
Ch I 

pkked up steam dur-ar es that "institutional ing the O'Meara autonomy" from Provostship which Rice the Church is one 
ends this year. But the of the "essential ovnremphasis on conditions of life research cannot he and growth, and blarnnd simply on the indeed of sur­
O'Mnara regime. As The Obsmvllr reported in 1978, "Notre Damp, should not Axpect any major ehanges in policy, according to Dr. 0. Timothy O'Meara, who was appointed to tlw position of provost in May .... O'Meara views the main thrust of the University's currnnt growth to be in the anla of nlsnareh.... To O'Meara... this means 'going beyond being a respeetable institution to distinguish oursfllvlls in the area of research. In this way, the work we do is first dass in its contribution to the knowledge of mankind."' The Observer, Aug. 30, 1978, p.1. The dominance of research was already growing in 1978 beeause it was the predietable result of a deeision made more than a decade before Dr. O'Mnara took ofliee. 
The reappointments of Malloy and Beauehamp will begin, at tlw end of tlwir eurrent terms, on the 30th anniversary of the Land ()'Lakes decla­ration of 1967 in which Notre Dame and othnr Catholic universities deelared that 
vival, for Catholic universities." This is so because the sev­erance of its formal link to the Church is a decisive cause of two defining trends in the Notre Dame of the past three decades: 
1. The overemphasis on research to the detriment of Notre Dame's historic primary mission of under­graduate education in the Catholic tradition. 

The old Notre Dame, owned by the Congregation of Holy Cross, defined its primary mission as part of the educa­tional effort of the Church. That mission was to make available to students, even those of modest means, a sound under­graduate education in the Catholic tradi­tion. Research and graduate studies played a balanced role in the enterprise, but undergrad education was valued on its own merits as a Catholic intelleetual work and resources were used primarily to keep it aeeessible to students. As Notre Dame Magazine stated in 1950, "Still, as always, Notre Dame refuses to turn down any more worthy applicants than necessary, even those in need of financial assistance. This is one reason why Notre Dame, unlike many other universities, never has known wealth­or even appreciable financial reserve." VoL3, p.5. Notre Dame's endowment in 1949 was $4,077,587, "the lowest among all major colleges and universi­ties." p.1 0. Interestingly, Notre Dame took its small endowment (they spelled it with a small "e") as a point of pride because it was using its income to lessen the burden on students. And the quality and breadth of the undergrad program counted for more than did the achieve­ment of recognition by the secular "aca­demic community." 
When the new Notre Dame liberated itself from juridical adherence to this intellectual and spiritual mission of the Church, it predictably came to measure itself by its attainment of a reputation as a great university according to the stan­dards of "the academic community." "The reputations of universities," said Malloy in 1992, "are driven by the research and graduate programs, not by the undergraduate schools." The Observer, Feb. 12, 1992, p.7. One conse­quence of this pursuit of a reputation as a Great Research University is the deval­uation and overpricing of undergrad education. Notre Dame is not the worst offender in this respect. But there is cause for concern, for example, at the fact that: "Within any given semester. approximately 15 percent of arts and letters courses, including Freshman Composition and Freshman Seminar, are taught by graduate students." Report of Graduate Studies Committee to Academic Council, Notre Dame Report, Sept 16, 1994, p.29. If you were a Notre Dame parent, think how thrilled you would be at the prospect of paying a tuition more than double, in real dollars, what it was in 1978 -for instruction by grad students. 
2. The Dilution of the Catholic Character of Notre Dame 
The overemphasis on researeh is itself a cause of the dilution of Notre Dame's Catholic character. As David Lutz put it, "emphasizing research causes Catholicism [as well as teaching] to be de-emphasized. This is true, not beeause there is any problem with doing excel­lent Catholic research, but because it is more difficult to publish such research in prestigious journals and with elite university presses than to publish the kind of scholarship respected by secular universities." The Observer, Feb. 17, 1993. Unfortunately, in the pursuit of Research Greatness, the Catholie char­acter of the University tends to beeome a secondary concern. As Provost O'Meara stated in 1993, "I personally am eonfident that Notre Dame will be a university first of all, and seeondly a Catholic university, for a long time to come." Interview, WNDU-TV, Oct. 5, 1993. 
The definitive analysis in this area remains that of Father James Burtchaell, C.S.C., in the April and May, 1991, issues of First Things magazine, Burtchaell described the process by which originally Protestant universities like Vanderbilt, Harvard, Yale, Princeton and others have beeome secu­lar, and the process by which Catholic universities are following suit. He sees the critical element as the severance of the authoritative, juridical link between the university and the church. 
Burtchaell's essay, which is perhaps the most important article written in the last three decades on Catholic higher edueation, will be discussed in detail in a later column. For now, it is worth not­ing that the severance of the formal con­nection with the Church is a causn not only of the erosion of Catholic character but also of Notre Dame's sterile fixation on Research. 
Professor Charles Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday . 
• 000NESBURY fLASHBACKS 
• 5THt POUT/CAL-MO/YIEN­
TUM Ar:AIN'5T SMOKING CONTINU&S TO BU!W... 
GARRY TRUDEAU  
... U.S. TOlJAWJ COMPANieS Pl-Y TH£5 6/..0f38, I.(XJQN6 FOR  ,.. MR. BU7T5 15 H05TING A 7WJN ME£T/Nr3­ 
NW, UNtxPlOITW MARK£75.  

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The man who rets himself be bored is even more contemptible than the bore." 
-Samuel Butler 

VIEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, November 20, 1995 
• CAPITOL COMMEI'HS 
Standing up for principle can often ruin a dream 
every organization evolves to a point nominated for an award or for being one who just finished his presidency, 
where its top administrators become chosen to run for the alumni associa­and several other very good younger rigidly like-minded. The "Good Ole Boy tion's national board. Last week I candidates become a "past president" Club" label can be placed to a certain received my letter informing me that the each year. degree on any institution's inner circle. national alumni association board I cannot run for club office again 
Lessons from a 
disappointed 
Corporations are run by those whose passed me by for consideration on the unless I move from Washington. primary goal is profit. Legislatures are national ballot. It's the third time since Besides, I had my presidency and advo­controlled by parties representing cer­I was the Washington, D.C. alumni club cate giving younger alumni the same
ND alumnus 
tain philosophies. Even universities president nine years ago. opportunity I had to participate. I do, 
have trustees and administrations The first time I was however, want to thank
My question to the senior class is, 
staffed with persons who strive toward a rejected, I figured I had Dr. Emil Hofman for
"Would you like to have President 
common goal. In Notre Dame's case, to pay my dues behind recommending me to
Clinton as your commencement speaker 
the goal is perceived to be one of follow-other, older alumni. 'So seniors beware. the board. I appreciate 
in May, 1996?" 
ing the Catholic Three years later, During your college his confidence in my
believe that 

Church while pro-when our district seat abilities, and have
regardless of party years you may be one of
\'f! viding a quality was open, our area enjoyed my association
affiliation or politi­
education. The nominee (and current the students at Notre with him on the many
cal philosophy, 
degree of rigidity director) was an out­club projects over the
most ND seniors 
Dame who fit nicely into 
that an organiza­standing choice years.
Gary

would want to say 
tion follows its mis­because of his national the prevailing social So seniors beware.
that the President 
sion determines participation in several During your college
of the United States classification. But fol-
Caruso whether or not the projects. Nobody could years you may be one of
addressed their 
"club" status is compete with his lowing graduation, as the students at Notre
commencement 
applied. accomplishments, and Dame who fit nicely into 
ceremonies. the years roll through
I would not apply of course he was elect­the prevailing social
However, since the 
one football season after
the "Good Ole Boy ed. So I had hoped classification. But fol­
spring of 1995, I 
Club" label to Notre Dame just yet, even that my third try would another, you will lowing graduation, as
have been attempting to connect my 
as I begin to experience what some of be the charm. After the years roll through
friends in the White House with the ND become more indepen­
my fellow Notre Dame alumni have bit­all, I reached the age one football season
Provost's Office. 1t seems that certain 
terly described to me. It seems to me where I wouldn't start dent.' after another, you will
staff in the Provost's office will not 
that the further we go from our gradua­a food fight in a Notre become more indepen­
return my phone call after our initial 
tion day, the more we drift away from Dame dining facility, so dent. Choosing your
conversation. In Washington, a polite 
the university. One of my classmates I could not possibly embarrass the independence over a dream is difficult.
·"We'll take it from here" would have 
felt so strongly that he wrote a blistering board. yet the right decision to make. Whether
sufficed. 
letter to the Sorin Society when he can­I was not chosen, despite my having you become bitter like my classmate or
I suspected that certain elements with­
celed his membership. He denounced an excellent year providing scores of just disappointed like I am, I wish you
in the university's inner circle would 
what he considered the university's con­events, as well as restoring our faltering all the luck in the world in having your
resist the invitation. Despite Clinton's 
stant grab for money. He realizes that treasury and substantially increasing phone calls returned. 
degree from Georgetown University, he 
costs continually rise, but he vehemently the club membership. My record can
is pro-choice, advocates equal opportu­
opposes the policy of providing a football match any. I gave my heart, my ener­
nities for gays, and does not share the 
parking space to those who contribute gies and my free time that entire year. Gary Caruso. Notre Dame '73, worked
same political philosophy of most of 
$3,000 or more per year to ND. But alas, with all the fanfare about next at the U.S. House of Representatives for 
Notre Dame's board of trustees. Maybe 
My latest experience is one of disap­year's alumni president being the eighteen years and is now a publicist
the new Provost would like to pursue 
pointment rather than anger. This is my youngest in history, I fear that three with the International Union of
the matter, if it is not too late. His office 
fifth year of writing for The Observer. years from now-being out of club office Electronics Workers (IUE) in
has my numbers. If not, I am in the 
Long ago I came to the conclusion that for twelve years-will make me too far Washington, D.C. His column appears
Washington phone book. 
by expressing my "liberal" views in this removed from active service. After all, every other Friday and his Internet
Notre Dame seniors, like college grad­
forum, I would end any chance of being this year they choose to nominate some-address is hottline@aol.com. 
uates everywhere, will soon learn that 
• LOCAl COLOR 
The importance of appearances 
The apartment door is standing open, and from the kitchen Sarah calls, "Just put your coat in the closet and come on in. You know," she says, "I just spoke with a cousin of mine, and I was telling her, I said, guess what? This young girl is coming over to learn how to make the Bobbe's kugel. 
Now," she goes on briskly. "I wrote the recipe down so we won't forget. A twelve-ounce pack­age of fine noodles. About half a cup of sugar, or less. I don't like a kugel that's too sweet. Then add about half a cup of raisins, half a cup of chopped nuts, and half a heaping teaspoon of cinnamon. Or more, depending on how much cinnamon flavor you like. Some people don't care for it, okay. So you put in less. 
"Half a teaspoon of salt. Then add three well-beaten 
Carol 
eggs, and half a cup of chicken fat or margarine. My mother and grandmoth­
Bradleyer never used margarine. Margarine was not like it is today. It wasn't kosher ...just let me get this." Sarah reaches to turn back the heat under the noodles before they boil over. 

"My mother and grandmother. whenever they made a kugel, they'd melt a lot of fat in the bot­tom of the pan. Until it was just sizzling. Then they'd dump the ingredients in. What happens is that the heat causes a crust to form on the bot­tom that is crisp and delicious. Now, that bakes for forty-five minutes. 
"This kugel recipe is my grandmother's, but my mother was a marvelous cook too, there's no denying she was. She could make a sponge cake for Passover that was literally, I mean it because I measured it myself, eleven inches high. 
"I was raised in the Depression," Sarah says. "I don't remember from before then, but there was not a lot of money to buy steaks and roasts. So my mother made stuffed cabbage like no stuffed cabbage I ever had in my life. And I make it to this day. You know, in most recipes for stuffed cabbage, you put maybe a cup of raw rice to a pound of meat. My mother would use at the most a quarter cup of cooked rice, in with a couple of pounds of ground chuck. So here and there you'd see a grain of rice. I make a pot roast too, just the way she did it, with just the things she put in. 
"Those are the things she taught me. And I remember she taught me very early to set the table. The forks and knives had to be exactly one inch from the edge. Believe me, she didn't have that kind of background. My mother couldn't read or write until she was forty years old, she had never gone to school. 
"But to my mother, appearances were impor­
tant. If you're going to have linen, have the best. It's better to have one beau­tiful double damask cloth than two cheaper ones. You don't need two. 
"You never just put food on the table, even if it was for the immediate family. Even at breakfast. You sat in the kitchen and whatever you had... eggs, oatmeal...it had to be served nicely. We had rimmed soup dishes, 
and we couldn't serve if soup had splashed over the rim. You'd have to take a cloth and clean it. Even if it was just for us." 
Sarah opens the oven to check on the kugel. "Uh, oh." The kugel is brown, but not too brown. "You'll like it like this, it'll be crisper." She lifts it sizzling from the oven, studded with raisins plumped by the heat, and holds it out to admire. There it is," she says. "The Bobbe's kugel. When it's cool, I'll wrap it up and you can take it home for dinner. 
"Appearances... " she says, " ... 1 was almost ready to say that appearances came first with my family, that food should look good. But that wasn't so. Taste was more important. In fact, when someone used to say to my mother, Oh Ida, this is delicious, she'd say why shouldn't it be good? I use the best ingredients. a good pan, a good stove. Why shouldn't it be good?" 
Writer and photographer Carol Bradley teach­es magazine writing at Saint Mary's and can be reached via e-mail at carol. c. bradley. 7@nd. edu 


Notre Dame Air Force 
44-14 
Thfl Irish running baeks ran 
Autry Oonson 
for 41 0 yards, both Handy 
A sptlclaculm: 32-yard TD run 
KindM nnd Autry Denson ror 
highlighted another steHa.r 
over 100 ynt•ds. taking 
effort from the freshman. He 
pressure oiT Thomas Krug. 
httd 109 yards on 16 carries . 
''People talked about this being an eight milli\Jn dollar game. But it was not about money. It was J:~,bout pride" 
--Defomive foorftitllltor Bob Davit 




Ground assult propels Irish past Air Force and into a major bowl 
Celebrating experience 
Bob Davie's defense, now familiar with the wishbone, shut down the potent Falcon attack 
-see page 3 



By MIKE NORBUT 
Sport> Editnr 
COLOHAI>O SPHINGS. COL. 
For all practical purposes, Notre Damn's snason was riding on its pnrf'or­manen against Air Foree Saturday. A win would have mnant a ticket to an $8 million Alliance bowl. A loss may have stml thn Irish homn for tlw holidays, sincn a lnsser bowl would not exactly meet Notrn Damn standards. 
With that in mind, the Irish wasted no time in going for the jugular, scoring on their first four possessions en route to a 44-14 thrashing of Air Force. 
The win, which came before a record erowd of 54.482 at Falcon Stadium, moves Notre Dame (9-2) up to 7th in the Associated Press poll, making them the highest-ranked two-loss team in the country. 
"This is definitely a great way to go out." senior captain Hyan Leahy said. 
see IRISH I page 2 


• JOCK STRIP 

Chemistry contributes to bright bowl prospects 
I
t took a while but preliminary plans bowl somewhere. can commence. The basement of Somewhere big. LaFortune js bound to be a little W h i I e the bowI '---='-----.,"-'-----' Tim Sherman
busier this week. picture remains as muddled as the Associate Sports
Maybe you should start with a brief 
Editor 

visit to Anthony Travel to get some ball memories of your park figures, or you may even want last birthday, the Irish have done their first stop by Society Bank to determine part. A top-ten finish is ensured, as is if you even have a ballpark to begin a bid to either to the Fiesta, Orange, or with. Whatever the case may be, one thing is clear. The Irish are going to a 

see SHERMAN I page 3 

----~------~~---­
page 2 Monday, November 20, 1995 
Krug's confidence yields competence 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
COLORADO SPRINGS, COL. 
Throughout Notre Dame's first drive of the evening, ESPN commentators Brad Nessler and Gary Danielson joked about the fact that there was no way to tell which arm Irish quarterback Tom Krug threw with. 
However, the audience did have plen­ty off chances to tell what hand he uses to hand the ball off. In fact, ten straight times, the Irish went to the ground. 

Irish 
continued from page 1 
"Now we just have to get ourselves ready for a big bowl." 
But with two more weeks of football to be played, trying to figure out Notre Dame's opponent is still mere specula­tion. 
"I haven't thought about who we may play," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "The only team I want to be with on New Year's is Notre Dame. I'm really happy for this team. The guys have really hung in there." 
Notre Dame made sure Air Force wouldn't hang in with them by leaping out to a 20-0 half-time lead, failing to score on only one first half possession. 
"I told the team at half-time that if we were down by 20, I wouldn't think we were out of the game," Holtz said. "I told them Air Force didn't think so either." 
But in reality, the Falcons were not even in it from the beginning. A delay of game penalty followed by a timeout on their opening drive set the tone for the game. 
"The off-date really helped," Irish defensive coordinator Bob Davie said. "We were able to hide our intentions a bit" more, so they didn't know where we were coming from." 
The Irish defense controlled the potent Air Force offense, allowing only one scoring chance in the first half-a missed field goal attempt by the Falcons' Randy Roberts. 
"The missed field goal really took some starch out of our football team," Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry said. 
The Air Force offense did look soggy and formless in comparison to the Irish ground machine. Notre Dame piled up 410 yards rushing behind Randy Kinder's 121 and Autry Denson's 109. Just for good measure, fullback Marc Edwards added 84. 
"They complement each other well," offensive coordinator Dave Roberts said. 
But what was mo important than the her of running plays the number of points th Krug-led offense put up the scoreboard. 44 to b exact. Just as im was the fact that the racked up 514 yards o total offense on the day. 
Clearly, Krug didn't do all by himself, but the again, he didn't need to. 
"He did a great job ing the team," offen coordinator Dave Robe appraised. "He kept chains moving and that' all we ask." 
The combination of somewhat offensive strategy and Holtz' s handling of Krug' psyche made for an easy 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
transition from three­

Notre Dame quarterback Thomas Krug spent a lot of the time handing off to tailback Randy Kinder, who fin­year reserve to the start­ished with 121 yards rushing and two touchdowns. Krug is now 1-0 as a starter for the Irish. 
ing quarterback of Notre Dame for the biggest game of the year. 
"Coach Holtz did a great job and I felt so comfortable with the gameplan," Krug explained. "I was getting all the reads and it seemed so easy." 
That ease was further facilitated by the fact that Krug was playing in front of backs like the triumvirate of Randy Kinder, Autry Denson and Marc Edwards (314 combined yards) and behind a line that has emerged as a near juggernaut. 
"Their offensive line was big and physical and they protected the quarter­back very well," Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry said. "Plus, they have a stable of runners." 

While no one questions the depth at the running-back position, the signal caller spot is another story. 
When Falcon linebacker Steve Fernandez sent Krug hard to the turf of Falcon Stadium, one could sense a col­lective skipped heartbeat from the Notre Dame sideline. 
With no viable reserve other than freshman Jarious Jackson, a once-over­looked Krug was suddenly alone in the spotlight as he lay on the turf. 
The concern was short-lived though. 
"I just got the wind knocked out of me," Krug noted. "They just told me to stay down. It was no big deal." 
Neither were Krug's numbers (8-13, 96, one int), but they were good enough. 
"Lou used the abilities and talents of his team (read, quarterback) well," DeBerry said. 
In particular, the Irish coaching staff had Krug right where he needed to be mentally. On an even keel. 
"The whole time before the game I was thinking I was going to get into the locker room and break down, get shaky and nervous," Krug admitted. "But I've been here three years and I know coach Holtz and I believe in him. I knew he had prepared me and I had confidence in myself." 
Maybe Irish coaches and fans now do too. 
"They, along with Robert Farmer, are so far this season." evening. three great backs." Strong or not up front, the Irish still Denson got in on the act in the second 
"It's good to get some fresh bodies in faced a potentially disastrous situation quarter, scoring from three yards out to there," Kinder said. "We have lots of when quarterback Thomas Krug took a increase the lead to 17-0. After another backs that start rolling and dominating. hit to the chest and did not get up right Cengia field goal, the Irish had a chance It's a good feeling." away. It looked as if, whether Holtz to put the Falcons away in the first half, 
Kinder started the good feelings with wanted to play him or not, Jarious but Krug was intercepted in the end 
5:26 left in the first quarter, scoring on Jackson would get his chance. zone by Kelvin King. It was the only a 17 -yard run. The play capped off an "It was high drama," Kinder said. "We questionable play in a game of consis­eight-play, 94-yard drive that did not thought it would be the same thing as tency played by the junior. feature a single pass play. It was indica­Ron, but all we asked was, 'Where's "The only error he had was the one tive of the evening on the whole. Jarious?'" interception he threw," Roberts said. 
"We knew everybody had to step it "I knew Tom would get up," line­"But on the whole, he had a complete up," Leahy said. "We just played backer Lyron Cobbins said. "We hit him game." straight ahead Irish football." a thousand times in practice." Krug finished the game 8-for-13 for 96 
Straight ahead, literally. All the backs Krug did get up and, after a timeout, yards. Beau Morgan, who Davie had really needed to do was look for a hole got his wind back enough to throw an compared to former Boston College opened up by the offensive line. incomplete pass. The ten-play, 13-yard quarterback Doug Flutie earlier last 
"It was such a physical mismatch," drive culminated in a Scott Cengia 30-week, had only 40 yards rushing on ten DeBerry said. "Their offensive line has yard field goal to give the Irish a 10-0 carries. He completed 8-of-16 for 63 dominated a lot of teams they've played lead. Cengia had three field goals on the yards. He was intercepted twice. 
• Graded Position Analysis 

I 
Linebackers A hese guys are definitely making a name for them· 
Jves. 'Wel;'e able to stop the nation's most potent hbone, and Lyron Cobbins increased his team lead· interception total to five. 
. Running Backs A . Secondary A-Randy Kinder and Autry Denson each carried for ovet"' ))id a nieejob of regrouping from a poor showing 100yards, and Marc Edwards was close with ..84 as thtf against Navy by holding the AF air attack to 63 yards. 

Irish rushed for 410 yards. Another awesomeperfotP'' LaRon Moore had trouble tackling ... again.
mance by the trio. · 

Receivers B+ Special Teams A 
Were more blockers than anything else. Gave Krug The Irish have finally found a reliable kicker in Scott the occ(l.sional target and held their blocks dQwn field. Cengia. Derrick Mayes should have been fielding punts Typical day for receivers in the Lou Holtz era. earlier, even his errors become stellar returns. 
0ffensive Line A Coaching A Air Force didn't have a chance. Irish line manhandled Even without Ron Powlus, Holtz's offense didn't skip a the undersized Falcon defensive line all evening. 514 beat, and defense fmally displayed that old Bob Davie total yards on offense and a quarterback still standing 
'Wrecking Crew' mentality. at the end of the game spells success. Overall Grade 3.79 Defensive Line A­Jhey needed to prove to themselves that they could Three sacks, one fumble forced and an option win withoutPowlus, and did. Should boast confidence All without rest in the thin mountain air. going into NeW Year's BowL ··Thomas Schlidt 
-~ ----------~----------------­
page 3 

Monday, November 20, 1995 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
Adjustments, attacking attitude ground Falcons 
Wishbone-wise Irish opt to shut down Morgans options 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assncia1c Spom Ediwr 
COLOHADO SPHINGS, Col. 
Football is a very difficult ganw to figurn out, as Notre Dame's 44-14 vietory over Air Fon:n illustratnd. 
With two high-powered of­l'mlsi~S and two rathnr generous ddm1sns poised to battle, all signs pointnd to a high-seoring alTair. 
Tlw Irish of'fcnsP. did their part hut it was tiJP. dllfense that madn those who bot the unclor happy. 
"With the OJWn date, we were able to do some different things scheme-wise," Irish coach Lou Holtz said. "We were able to defend against the wishbone­fairly well." 
lloltz and defensive coordina­tor Bob Davie had to be more than a bit worried entering Falcon Stadium. Their defense had shown an inability to de­fend the type of option attack that Air Force has nearly per­fected to a science. 
Against Army and Navy, two squads with less weaponry than the Falcons, the Irish surren­dered a substantial amount of 
yardage. 

PRE'J­TEAM RECORD POINTS IOUS 
1. Nebraska (44) 10-0-0 1529 1 2. Ohio State (13) 11-0-0 1477 2 3. Florida (5) 10-0-0 1458 3 4. Northwestern 10-1-0 1326 5 5. Tennessee 9-1-0 1315 4 6. Florida State 9-1-0 1262 6 
7. Notre Dame 9-2-0 1152 8 
8. Colorado 9-2-0 1108 9 9. Texas 8-1-1 1043 10 10. Kansas State 9-2-0 934 7 11. Kansas 9-2-0 847 15 12. Oregon 9-2-0 818 16 13. Virginia Tech 9-2-0 743 20 14. Penn State 7-3-0 729 19 15. Texas A&M 7-2-0 684 18 16. Auburn 8-3-0 643 21 17. Southern Cal 8-2-1 528 11 18. Michigan 8-3-0 476 12 19. Virginia 8-4-0 390 13 20. Washington 7-3-1 358 22 21. Alabama 8-3-0 288 17 22. Syracuse 8-2-0 286 23 23. Arkansas 8-3-0 243 14 24. Clemson 8-3-0 217 24 

In addition, Fisher DeBerry's squad boasted Beau Morgan, a quarterback who Davie show­ered praise upon all week long preceding the contest. 
But the Irish had a valuable asset of their own to utilize ­experien<:e against the danger­ous offense. 
"What really made a differ­ence was the fact that they have had four weeks of prepa­ration(one against Army and Navy and two for Air Force) defending against the option," DeBerry said. "I really salute the job they did preparing for this game." 
Davie concurred. 
"I don't think there was any question that experience against the option helped. It was a chess game out there and we came out on top. 
Davie's gambit was clear ­stop Morgan and you stop the Academy. 
"We knew he (Morgan) posed the greatest threat of anybody, so we were focused on him," defensive end Corey Bennett said. 
That focus translated into four sacks, more than a few hurries, and an overall sense of confusion. 
"We weren't counting on the different defenses they threw at us," a rather befuddled Morgan explained after the game. "They stemmed on us a little, hit us a little bit early and we never got on track. 
"They said 'We're going to 
• BY THE BOOK 
TEAM STATISTICS 
NO  AF  
First downs  27  14  
Rushes·yards  63·410  37-223  
Passing yards  104  63  
Comp·atHnt  9-14·1  8-16-2  
Re!Urnyards  206  179  
Fumbles·losl  2·1  H  
Penallies·yards  7-52  4·25  
Punls·ave  1-38.0  4·55.8  
3rd dowfl conv  3-8  1-10  
4th down conv  0·0  0·0  
Possession time  34:59  25:01  

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS 
RUSHING -Notre Dame: Kinder 14-121 2TD, Denson 16·109 2TD, Edwards 14-84, Farmer 8·35, Sollmann 1-16, Thorne 3·15 1TD. Krug 3·13. Stokes H 1, Spencer 2-6, Barry 1-0. Air Force: Addison 10·108, Morgan 10-40, Wilkerson 6-30, Tanner 3·17, Johnson 3·11. Eilers 1·10. Ruff 2-5. Campbell H . Brown 1-1 . 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 
1  2  3  4  F  
Notre Dame  10 10  17  7  44  
AirForce  0  0  7  7  14  

SCORING SUMMARY 
FIRST QUARTER Notre Dame 7, Air Force 0 Kinder 16 run (Cengia kick) at 5:26 
(10 plays, 94 yards, 5:07 elapsed). Key Play: Edwards picked up 7 on a key third down. 
Notre Dame 10, Air Force 0 
Cengia 30 FG at :42 (1 0 plays, 13 yards, 3:55). Key Play: A holding penalty negated a Krug-to­Chryplewicz touchdown. 
SECOND QUARTER Notre Dame 17, Air Force 0 Denson 3 run (Cengia kick) at 9:34 (9 
plays, 80 yards, 3:56). Key Play: Krug hit Mayes for a 32 yard gain. which broke Tim Brown's receiving record. 
Notre Dame 20, Air Force 0 
Cengia 26 FG at 2:47 (11 plays, 51 yards, 5:02). Key Play: Edwards took Krug's screen pass and ran 13 yards for a first down. 
THIRD QUARTER Notre Dame 23, Air Force 0 Cengia 26 FG at 10:07 (10 plays, 57 


• 
take the quarterback and half­the first half." back away."' Specifically, the Irish did not 
That strategy worked to per­let the Falcons dictate tempo. fection, as a suddenly-stagnat­Rather, they forced the issue, ed Falcon offense was only able taking the offensive while on to garner 69 yards in the first defense. half and was kept ofT the score­"We wanted to attack more board. and shock some people," Holtz 
"WJJ made some adjustments explained. "Our gameplan was at half-time of the Navy game to be more aggresive." that worked rather well," Holtz The fact that the Irish played said. probably their best defensive 
"We basically just stayed with game of the year might not a lot of the same things. Our have been a shock, but it was a defense had them confused in very pleasant surprise. 
PASSING-Notre Dame: Krug 8-13·1-96, Perona 1-1-0-8. Air Force: Morgan 8·16-2­63 2TD. 
RECEIVING -Notre Dame: Mayes 3-46, Mosley 2-19, Edwards 1-13, Chryplewicz 1­11, Carretla 1-8, Stafford 1-7. Air Force: Campbell 3-29, Addison 2-10 1TD. Brooks 1-11 1TD, Ranger 1-8. 
TACKLES -Notre Dame: Grasmanis 8 (1 sack), Berry 7, Moore 6, Magee 6, Wooden 5, Wynn 5 (2 sack), Cobbins 4 (1 lnt), Tatum 4 (1 int), Carretta 3, Wagasy 3, Bennett 2 (1 fum cause), Monahan 2, Covington 2, Smith 1, Guilbeaux 1, Minor 1, Rossum 1. Air Force: Fernandez 16, Hudgins 13, Guthrie 10, Ransom 8, DeRock 8, McCray 8, King 7 (1 int), Maunz 6, Curry 6, Dalton 4, Schweighardt 4, Pupich 3, Jenkins 3, Carr 2, Finnan 2, Faber 1. Marsh 1, Staine-Pyne 1. Morgan 1. Ensor 1, Hancock 1. 
yards, 4:53). Key Play: Krug eluded pressure to run for 13 yards and a first down. 
Notre Dame 23, Air Force 7 
Addison B pass from Morgan (Thompson kick) at 6:47 (B plays, 79 yards, 3: 13). Key Play: Wynn's roughing the punter penalty kept the Falcon drive alive. 
Notre Dame 30, Air Force 7 Denson 23 run (Cengia kick) at 4:25 (6 plays, 70 yards, 2:12). Key Play: The trio of Denson, Edwards, and Kinder ran for 66 of the 70 yards on the drive. 
Notre Dame 37, Air Force 7 
Kinder 5 run (Cengia kick) at :42 (5 plays, 38 yards, 1 ;42). Key Play: Mayes bobbled a punt, then returned it 32 yards to the Falcon 38. 
FOURTH QUARTER 

Notre Dame 44, Air Force 7 
Thorne 5 run (Cengia kick) at 14:57 (2 plays, 4 yards, :28). Key Play: Cobbins picked off a pass and returned It to the Falcon 4. 
Notre Dame 44, Air Force 14 
Brooks 11 pass from Morgan (Thompson kick) at 13:03 (6 plays, BO yards, 1:53). Key Play: Morgan con­nected with Campbell for 22 yards. 
Shennan 
continued from page 1 

Sugar Bowls. 
Finally, we can dismiss the worries of ending up in some God-forsaken bowl such as the Liberty Bowl. There will be no nights out on Beale Street. Bourbon Street, though, remains a possibility. And that's a relief. 
After the Northwestern fiasco way back when the sun shone upon South Bend, bowl talk was slightly less exhilarating. 
"Hey, do you think the Poulin Weedeater Independence Bowl would want the Irish? I know we can compete with someone like Idaho. The Big Sky is way overrated." 
Now, the thinking is a bit more pie-in-the sky. 
"Yeah, we still got a shot. If things break our way, Tommy "Gun" Krug might just lead the Irish to the promised land. National champi­onship #12 here we come." 
To paraphrase coach Lou Holtz, reality lies somewhere in the middle. 
The Irish are far from the dregs of bowls that are played before even Christmas, nor are they even close to being the nation's top squad. 
One thing is certain though, the Irish have made huge strides since the NU disaster. 
Simply, the Irish jelled. They had chemistry. 
If 1994 was Orgo, 1995 has been baby <:hem. Lou Holtz was able to find the right solution. He found the formula for success. Plus, he found some rather important ele­ments; like the Densons and Minors of the world. 
The emergence of such players has somewhat mitigated the reality that the Irish did sutTer two losses. No true Notre Dame season is supposed to include two blemishes on the record, but if you had a chance early on to guarantee a 9-2 finish, most would have jumped at the chance. 
In all actuality, having the opportunity to watch this team evolve into one of the nation's best has been highly enjoyable. 
Character-building games against Washington and Army were exciting, rivalry-renewing games agsinst USC and BC were satisfying, and good 'ol butt-whoopins against Texas and Air Force were just plain fun. 
The 1995 Irish may not be on top where they want to be, but they arc where they belong to b.-: -in a major bowl through their own merit. 
~------~-~----­

Monday, November 20, 1995
page 4 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Fullback Marcus Thorne scores Notre Dame's final touchdown of the game-and the first of his Irish career-in the fourth quarter against Air Force Saturday. 
Notre Dame 44 Air Force 14 
Falcon Stadium November 18, 1995 


By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 
COLORADO SPRINGS, COL. 
It's a done deal. With a 9-2 record 
and a top ten ranking, Notre Dame 
has an $8 million bowl in its future. 
But just to make it official, the Irish players had a vote following Saturday's 44-14 victory over Air Force. "Our players voted to accept a bid," 
• 
coach Lou Holtz said, "even with the stipulations." 
Those stipulations, basically, are that the team will go where it is told, based on a bowl's offer and the uni­versity's acceptance. 
And don't count out the Fiesta Bowl on the list of New Year's possibilities. 
"A lot depends on the Florida­Florida State game," Nokia Sugar Bowl executive Jerry Romig said. "If Florida State wins, the Fiesta Bowl 

may not be sitting on a one versus two game." 
A Florida loss would leave Ne­braska and Ohio State as the only two undefeated teams in the nation (that is, besides Toledo). Since the two teams cannot play for the nation­al championship because the Buckeyes' Rose Bowl ties, the Fiesta Bowl would have to look elsewhere for an opponent. 
A 9-2 Notre Dame squad that draws national interest might just be that team. 
"They'd be a very attractive option for the Fiesta Bowl," Romig said. 
Of course, if Florida wins, the point is moot. The Irish would probably head to the Orange Bowl and face Miami, assuming the Hurricanes can knock off Syracuse next week. 
But if it was the Sugar Bowl's choice, the Hurricanes would be out on their ear. 
"Virginia Tech would be the most attractive option," Romig said. "They're ranked higher than Miami and they also beat them." 
Bowl Blunders?: For the second straight season, a national champi­onship will probably not be decided on the field. 
Second-ranked Ohio State may suf­fer the same fate as Penn State did last season-go undefeated and miss out on the glory because of the vot­ers. 
Should a playoff system be in­stituted? 
"Give the Bowl Alliance a chance," Romig said. "I hear the Rose Bowl may join. If that happens, we can't miss.Of course, that's what we thought this year." 
Off the Clock: Notre Dame's defense was truly dominating Saturday night, but the main reason was not any major scheme change. 
"It's all a matter of timing," de­fensive coordinator Bob Davie said. "With the open date, we were ready to play." 
Before the Irish faced Army, they had to play Texas, Ohio State and Washington. They then hosted USC and Boston College before taking on Navy. Both the academies had off­weeks before playing Notre Dame. 
Tenacity in Writing: Air Force cadets and fans showed their excite­ment for the game by displaying many signs around Falcon Stadium. However, these signs were not of the typical nature. 
Several sheets were covered with mutilated leprechauns. Countless signs depicted Falcons talons ripping little Irish people apart. Some even had missiles blowing them up. 
ACC~NT 
MonJay, November 20, 1995 
page 9 

• JUST ANOTHER SINGLE OAOOY•••(A MOVIE REVIEW) 
'Goldeneye' not that golden 

By SCOTT BOZIK and DOM DeVITO 
Acccnl l'ilm Cri1ics 
l 
(out of four) 

Synopsis: /Jond is back and blander than f'l'er. Super-spy who refuses to age pitwcl against a motley cabal of kooky 11illains with a de11ilish desire to plunder 1/er Majesty's financial resources. 1\s expected. "Goldeneye" comes complete with banal irony, ludicrous physical accomplishments, grat uitous sex and inherent chatwinism following the pre­dictable and o.JZ traveled path that con­cluclm; with .limbo saving the world and gelling the girl. 
D 
nddy: Last Friday marked the tri­umphant return of' James Bond to thn big screen. Due to the fact that this evnnt is almost as eagerly anticipatnd as the innvitable relnase of tlw next animated Disney insult, I felt thn nnnd to bring in some outside talent in ordnr lo provide the comprehensive cirwrna coverage that Notre Dame mer­its. l'lnasn allow me to introduce my lovely assistant for this endeavor, Mr. Dominie Jules DeVito. Jules, an Accent musk eritic, is here to provide a per­Siwetive on "Goldeneye" to accompany mirw. 
'James Bond has long since 
consumed the last of his narrative ideas. With the advent of 'Goldeneye' he has now officially worn out his welcome.' 
Wlwn I was a youth of about 8-14 years, I had a speeial private world that I would retreat to in times of trial and trihulation.This endave was one created by the aetions and imagery produced by author Ian Fleming, through the medi­um of' his most spectaeular eharacter, Agm1t 007. I 1un forced to admit that I had hopnd that "Goldeneye" might serve 11s 11 temporary return to this state of' earefree innoeenee. llowever. despite such buoyant optimism. I must condude 
that the only emotion that "Goldeneye" 
left me with was one of forlorn sadness. 
I've realized that perhaps we really 
never can return to the happiness we 
experienced in our pasts. 
It would not be hyperbole to claim that 
"Goldeneye" is quite possibly the most 
preposterous and generally disappoint­
ing movie that Daddy has seen in a long 
time. From the opening sequence of 
events (a series that includes both Bond 
and an airplane simultaneously falling 
into a precipice, with 007 then flying 
through the air and eventually finding 
himself in the cockpit and in control of 
the vehicle with, of course, scant time to 
spare) to the flick's improbable conclu­
sion it is rather clear to the audience 
that Bond's biggest foes in "Goldeneye" 
are going to be the laws of physics as 
well as the entire scope of human logic. 
My detractors will claim that it is 
imperative that we suspend doubt in 
order to enjoy an adventure movie. 
While this principle is undeniably true, 
this same axiom in no way implies that I 
should have to pay money to witness 
deeds that no human being could do. 
I would be remiss if I did not at least mention the shocking degree of blatant chauvinism present in "Goldeneye." Likewise, I would be accused of personal ignorance if I had not counted on some degree of misogyny. However, no one could have accurately predicted the manner in which "Goldeneye" tran­scends the levels of its predecessors in this sense. I once considered names like Pussy Galore and Dr. Holly Goodhead comic; but this time around I couldn't even giggle when I learned that "Goldeneye's" femme fatale was named Xenia Onatopp. Perhaps I've lost my sense of humor, or maybe I've just grown up a bit and am no longer amused by the bawdy banter that so often resides in the locker room. 
If "Goldeneye" has one redeeming fea­ture it is to remind MGM that a good idea can only be extended so far. James Bond has long since consumed the last of his narrative ideas. With the advent of "Goldeneye" he has now officially worn out his welcome. With this thought I bid you good night, and cede the spotlight to my good friend Jules ..... 
I
would like to express my deepest gratitude to Daddy for allowing me to participate in this exercise in criti­cism. 
The n e w Bond h a d expec­tations raised and hearts racing. What, with the first evening show sell­ing out h o u r s before show time and the sec­ond becom­ing equally as packed 

soon af­terwards, the entire collec­tive consciousness of South Bend seemed to be awaiting an epiphany. Unfortunately, "Goldeneye" was unable to bring this reviewer's mental state to the nirvana which had been so eagerly promise by the little speaking box which occupies my attention for many hours during the week. 
To begin the diatribe, I'll first focus on the few things which did make me happy. The obligatory display of totally fictitious "new" espionage technology was once again amusing and provided a pleasant diversion from the monotony of the nonstop onslaught of explosions and sexual titillations. A personal favorite was the Stinger missiles supposedly hid­den behind the headlights of the brand­spanking new Beamer. Of course, I'll save any potential auto enthusiasts some time and divulge that the new BMW that is supposedly so rad gets all of about 5 minutes of on-screen time. The Stingers never get used, either. Among the other technological wonders which I enjoyed were the laser watch, the exploding pen, and the Megatron death's head train with the self-con­tained helicopter unit. 
Another interesting facet of the film is the sexual innuendo. This facet of the Bond dialogue is utilized at an all-time high rate in "Goldeneye." Not only does bond get 2 1/2 women in this film. but he finds it necessary to talk about it all the time. Yes, subtle ribaldry is back. 
Thirdly, the amazing cinematography was quite impressive. There's nothing like having the impression that the eam­eraman is on fire to get you involved in the movie. Also, Bond manages to find himself in enough high-flying pickles to satisfy even the most hardened thrill­seeker. It is no surprise that plenty of attention was given to detail when film­ing and editing this movie. Stuff explodes on all sides, which inevitably happens anytime there is anything remotely flammable in close proximity to our favorite British agent. 
I didn't like much else about the movie. Okay, the females (with the obvi­ous exception of the new and unim­proved M) were rather appealing to the visual portion of my being, and did a fair job of acting, but there was little room for character development, not that one comes to expect female leads in Bond flicks to have any character. And, like Daddy said, the e!Tects pretty much dis­prove the laws of physics. Pretty lame for something that's not a cartoon. 
In conclusion, I'd just like to say that I feel cheated. The movie is long, some­what boring in many parts, and there are only so many Yugos that can get crushed by a tank before it's just not funny anymore. Therefore, I recom­mend that you save your cash for now, and just wait until it's out on video. Or go read a good book instead . 
• DAYS OF OUR LIVES UPDATE 
Jack or Peter? Peter or Jack? Jennifer's dilemma continues 
Uy CHRISTINA FTlCSAR and ERIN KELSEY left the deed at the arbor. Of course Jack found it. As he was about to read it, Days ofour Lives Correspondems Jude hit him over the head, knocked over a lantern, and burned down the arbo.r. Peter and Jennifm· found Jack, and Peter carried him out unconscious, unconscious 
H
oy Days' lims! Don't miss this Tuesday when Peter and Jennifer are set to get being the key word. Peter accused Jack of starting the fire, and basically knocking marrind. Who will Jennifer end up with? If Keith and Erik from the Notre himself out right in the middle of the burning arbor. Hello!? Why would he do Dame Track Team have anything to do with it, it'll be Jack. that? Anyway, the police arrested him, and he is currently in jail. 
The biggest news this week was the birth of Sami and Lucas's (oops. we mean Meanwhile, Tony lost his diary, but to his relief (and ours) found it on Friday. Austin's) son, William Reed. As she was being wheeled to the operating room to Fortunately for us too, his psychotic ranting and ravings were a bit scary. .Jude have a C-s£>rtion, she refused to go until Austin was by her side. There's a picture spied Hope on her way into the house at Aremid. Watch out Hope! John became of' u good mother, "Forgot the baby, I just want the guy who I had to drug to have increasingly intrigued by the Lady-in-white who, for some reason was walking snx with me to be thet'H. "Later, William was diagnosed with some disease, and had around carrying Kristin's favorite childhood doll. Stefano had more memories. to be put on antibiotics. (Prediction: Baby will need blood, Austin's won't match, including one of' John Black and the Lady-in-white without her curtain costume. Lueas's will. Snmi nnd Lucas will get hold of tests. and no one will know for Lexy may know who her parents are after catching Celeste just before she was months that Lucas is the rna! fat.her.) about to shred the hospital records that showed her parents names. Marlena tried 
.Jennifer postponed the wedding to settle her feelings for Jack, but Peter found to convince Carrie that her promise to God is baskally stupid, so she should forget out about Laura and Jack's one-night stand. Peter (who by the way will be in it and go back to Austin. Listen Carrie, Listen! I>nenmtwr's issuo of "Playgirl") schomed to get Jennifer to go see her mothtlr at Don't miss Deidre Hall's (aka Marlena) life story, Never Say Never, on December th£> hotel. knowing that Jack would be there with Laura. They talked. Jack left, 10 at 9 p.m. and in the two seconds it took for him to return, she was in lingerie. Suddenly, she spilled wine on his shirt, and he took it oft'. Jack hugged Laura one last time, and Christina Pticsar and Erin Kelsey are the wzo.fficial presidents of the unofficial put her to blld -Laura jumped him. Jennifer walked in on this gut-wrenching sight chapter ofthe Notre Dame Days ofour Lives fanclub. If you'd like to join. please e­and was devastated. Needless to say, the wodding Is back on. mail them at Christina.N.Fticsar.l @nd.edu. 
Later, Peter signed over all of his illegal businesses to Jude, unfortunately they 
~-~------~-~­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 20, 1995 
•PGA •NBA 
Elkington and Calcavecchia Knicks squeak by 
By WENDY LANE who went to the Grizzlies in the Associated Press expansion draft, finished with
victorious in weekend birdiefest 
18 points on 8-of-12 shooting. 

Associated Press 
THOUSAND OAKS,Calif. 

Steve Elkington and Mark Calcavecchia combined for a 13-under-par 59 in a scramble forma:t Sunday to win the $1.1 million Shark Shootout by one shot over Lee Janzen and Chip Beck, who had a final-round 57. 
"We could have birdied every hole today," Elkington said. "We were never in trouble but knew we needed to make a lot of birdies to win." 
Elkington and Calcavecchia, who finished with a 32-under 184 total in the 54-hole event, started the back nine with eight consecutive birdies. It was Elkington's second Shark Shootout title and Calcavecchia's first. Each won $150,000. 
"I hit a lot of good irons but Steve hit every one of his irons great today," Calcavecchia said. "You get into grooves like that and you know you are going to keep hitting good shots. It was exciting and great to win here for the first time." 
Janzen and Beck birdied the last eight holes to win $85,000 each. 
"We played better than most and should have birdied the 10th hole," Janzen said. "I had a lot of fun and these different formats force you to attack the 
---golf course from the first hole. It really helps you become an aggressive player." The three-day event, now in its seventh year, uses a differ­ent format each day for the 10 teams. On Friday, they played 
alternate shot, w h i I e Saturday was best ball. 
Sunday's final round was a scram­ble which sees each player hit a tee shot. Each player then plays a second shot from the spot where the selected tee shot lays and the the best second shot is selected. Play continues using this process until the hole is completed. 
"The scram­ble format is very excit­ing," Beck said. "I was looking for­ward to winning this week. It's the first tournament I've played well in lately." 
Tied for third at 187 were defending champions Fred Cou­ples and Brad Faxon, who closed with a 57, and Tom Lehman and David Duval, who had a 60. Each player earned $53,000. 
Tournament host Greg Norman and partner Ray Floyd finished fifth after a closing 58 that included three eagles. Nor­man has yet to win his own tournament while Floyd has won twice, once with Elkington and once with Couples. 

The teams of Hale Irwin and Bruce Lietzke and Tom Kite and Jay Haas tied for sixth after final-round 57s gave them a 187, while Peter Jacobsen and Arnold Palmer were at 192 after a 59. 
Curtis Strange and Mark O'Meara finished ninth with a closing 58 for 194, while Fuzzy Zoeller and John Daly, despite a final-round 60, were another three strokes back in last. 
The Shark Shootout, spon­sored by Franklin Templeton, was played over the 7,025-yard Sherwood Country Club. 

NEW YORK 
Patrick Ewing atoned for a poor shooting night by hitting a tiebreaking basket with 30.5 seconds left as the New York Knicks squeaked by the Vancouver Grizzlies, 98-93 Sunday night. 
After Ewing's shot gave New York a 95-93 lead, Greg An­thony drove to the basket, missed a layup and was called out-of-bounds when he grabbed his own rebound. lie argued the call, resulting in a technical foul. 
Charles Oakley's foul shot at the other end sealed the Knicks' win over the Grizzlies, who lost their eighth in a row. 
Derek Harper led the Knicks with 25, and Anthony Mason had 20 on 10-for-12 shooting. 
Anthony, the former Knick 
• SPORTS BRIEFS · 
Basketball Officials -Needed for Interhall and Grad!Fac!Sta.ff Games; Pays $8.50 a. game. If you are currently a Co-Ree offi­cial and would like to do other Basketball leagues, please call 631-6100 and ask for Mark. 
Drop~in Volleyball-Will take place on Tuesday, November 21, 28 and December 5 at the Joyce Center from 8-11. No advance sign-ups or estab­lished teams are necessary. 
Late Night Olympics Steering Committee-RecSports is look.; ing for some enthusiastic stu­dents who would be interested in helping to plan this all··night extravaganza. As in the past, 
Anthony's 3-pointer with 2:13 left tied the game at 91, and after a layup by Harper, tied it again with a driving layup with 
46.3 seconds to play. 
Oakley missed an open 18­footer, bL1t Ewing got the re­bound and made the jumper. Before the shot, Ewing had made only 4-of-11 field goal at­tempts for 11 points. He fin­ished with 16 rebounds. 
Despite holding the Grizzlies. the league's lowest-scoring team averaging just 88 points a game, to 19 points in the third quarter, the Knicks couldn't build any kind of a lead until coach Don Nelson went to a four-guard lineup. Using the fast break, New York scored six straight, and a basket by Mason made it 89-80 with 6:21 remaining. 
all funds raised from LNO will go to benefit Special Olympics. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's students who are inter­ested should call1-8237. 
Rockne Memorial Thanksgiving 1995-Wed. Nov. 22 Building 7a.m.-7p.m.; Pool 7-9a.m. , noon-6 p.m. ; wt. room 3-6p.m. Thurs. Nov. 23, Closed. Fri. Nov. 24 , Building 7a.m. -7p.m.; pool 7-9a.m., noon • 2p.m. ; wt. room closed. Sat, Nov. 25, Building 10a.m. • 8:30p.m.; pool 1-6p.m. wt. room closed. Sun. Nov. 26, Building 10a.m. -llp.m.; pool 7,11p.m.; wt. room noon-6­p.m.; family hours 2-5p.m. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Mark"s Towing Roadside Service, Tire Changing, Jumpstarts,Many Services .. We Accept Checks & Charge Student & Senior Discounts 
• 
Damage Free Towing 

• 
24 Hours • Motor Club Servicer Ph#(219)271-2382 


For more information and assis­tance regarding the investigation of financing, business opportunities and work-at-home opportunities, The Observer urges its readers to contact the Better Business Bureau of Michiana, 52303 Emmons Rd., Suite 9. South Bend, IN 46637­4200; or call the BBB at 219/277­9121 or 800/439-5313. 
Baby Sitter Mother of 2 will take care children of ages 0-4 years. 273-4933. 
RAVE RAVE RAVE 
ND Rave 
Keep a look out 

RAVE RAVE RAVE 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 
Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! 
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! 
Spring Break Travell-800-678­
6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12115! 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 WEEKLY MIDWAY TAVERN 810W4TH MISH. MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN MIKE/JAM 9:00 THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR 255-0458 NEED ID 
ILOST & FOUND I 
·LosT· 

Black Pagemart Motorola Pager. Has been reported lost to the com­pany and is now inactive. Its return would be appreciated. If found please call Nikole at 4-1265. Thankyou. 
!11!1!! LOST 1!1!1!1! Prescription Glasses Brown/orange and black around lenses. Thin gold frames. Light weight lenses. Lost during last week of Oct-now. Call Mike @ 1 0782 
LOST: pair of gold hoop earrings, pair of pearl earrings, gold necklace with heart charm, and diamond ring. WHERE: Alumni Hall WHEN: Friday night-11110 CONTACT: X-1407 with any info. 
Found: Gloves in NOH on 11/13 Call x1678 
Navy Alorna Coat and 
Navy J.Ashford Sweater taken from Senior Bar on Thurs.. 11/9. PLEASE return-I'M FREEZING!!!! No questions asked ..Maria X4034 
LOST: CALCULUS BOOK & NOTEBOOK IN COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE ON MONDAY, NOV. 13. 
RETURN TO MAIN DESK IN LAFORTUNE OR CALL 233-8273 & LEAVE MESSAGE. 
My little black Olympus camera (with a full roll of film. wouldn't you know) has been missing since Oct. 
31. Please call Anne@ 273·8575. Thanks! 
LOST: Small roundish green sunglasses • prescription -kind of valuable -lost btwn Lafortune and DeBartolo Tues 2:45 Call 277-3201 Patrick. 
LOST: SOMEONE MISTAKENLY TOOK MY CALCULUS BOOK AND NOTEBOOK ON MONDAY, 11113, FROM THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL HANY 233-8273 OR TAKE TO LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 
LOST: A woman's gold sapphire ring with two small diamonds. Last seen Friday night at 10pm. PLEASE call 
x2446 if found. 
WANTED 
• • • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • • Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #1 Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel !reel Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAK! 
$35.000/YR. INCOME potential. 
Reading books. Toll Free 1-800­
898-9778 Ext. R-2013 for details. 
Wanted!! 
Individuals, Student Organizations 
to Promote 
SRING BREAK Earn MONEY and 
FREE TRIPS 
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­
GRAMS 
http://www.icpt.com 
1·800-327 -6013 
WANTED FOR XMAS GIFT: Video tapes of 1g95 ND Football Season. NAME YOUR PRICE. 402-551-8436 
Babysitter needed. Some evenings or weekends. $5/hr-own car pre­ferred. Call Bobby at 236-6170(W) or 272-5917(H) PART-TIME BRANCH CLERK American General Finance. one of the leading consumer finance orga­nizations, is seeking a responsible individual to fill a part-time Branch Clerk position in our South Bend office. The Branch Clerk provides routine office and clerical support to the branch. Flexible around school hours. For immediate consideration please call 291-1019. Equal Opportunity Employer. 

NEED A RIDE TO ANYPLACE NEAR ROCHESTER.NY (AT 90)? justin, 233-1259 
HELP!! I NEED A RIDE TO NJ FOR THANKSGIVING CALL Dave at X3684 
LOOKING TO HIRE-LOCAL WEEKLY NEWSPAPER PAN­NYSAVER!fiMES SEEKING JUNIOR/SENIOR ACOUNTING MAJOR TO HELP ACCOUNTING DEPT. PART-TIME HOURS AVAIL­ABLE M·F. CALL GERRY MOTI 282-4419 OR FAX 282-4415 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 232-2595 
READY NOW FOR SPRING SEMESTER 3-4 Bedroom 2 blks from campus Newly remodeled with W/D DW Fridge Stove Huge Yard Full Basement and Monitored Security Sys Included $240/person or $900/mo Will help individuals needing a room. Call Mike @ 233-9609 for details 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 

6 BDRM HOME NEAR ND. NEXT FALL.272·6306 Comfortable 2 Bdrm home. 1 mi. to campus. $450/mo. Call Chuck Majcher at 273-0860. 
FOR SALE 
SPEAKER: Liner Phase Studio Monitor...like new. Great for parties & bands. $250 OBO. Jeff 233­2460. 
...................... 
. . . . ---------------­
Hey Ski Buffs ... 
ND Ski Team T-shirts Only $10! 
Call today and rec•3ive your shirt folded for no extra charge! Wowl Potter @ 232-2955 'Ill * • * * • * * • * * ••••••••••
-------------------. 
GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT IDEA! Give a child you know the gift of reading. Colorful and unique per­sonalized books for children. 15% student discount. Call 1-800-375­3340. 24 hr. recorded message gives details. 
85 Jimmy 4x4 Low miles great cond. $4500 273-4762 
PERSONAL 
0a0a0a0a0a0a!Zio0o0a0a0 
QUALITY COPIES. QUICKL Y!l! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0a0a0a0a0a0o0a0o0a0o0 
St. Jude: thank you for prayers answered. :) 
I can take riders to Iowa -Leaving Tues. Molly x3490 
ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love. Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Peter at 800-529-8386. 
Wendy let me in I wanna be your friend I wanna guard your dreams and visions just wrap your legs round these velvet rims and strap your hands across my engines 
Hello APATHY! FILL OUT YOUR ENTERTAIN­MENT POLLS! FROM TUESDAY'S OBSERVER! MAIL THEM TO US CAMPUS MAIL! OR PICK ONE UP FROM The Big 0 on the third floor of LaFun. TODAY! FIGHT THE APATHY! 
ADOPTION: Loving, financially secure professional couple wishes to adopt. Your baby would be cher­shised and loved in a warm and happy home. Let us help you. We can provide medical, legal, counsel­ing, approved living expenses. Call Cindy or Stan at 1-800-752-1636, or attorney Glenna 1-800-241-5384. Confidential. 
Whatever. -Therese 
Happy 21st Birthday Patty. YOU'RE going to be chasing water­falls. Love, Caroline 
Do you know Clara Finneran? She's FINALLY 211 Don't forget to wish her a happy birthday! 
Before you leave ... clean up com­
puter desktop by putting everything 
in trash except you r hard drive. 
Hey to 242 Dillion. 
Tacos were good. 
Bond was better, 
I'm just so glad, 
Colin didn't take a header. 
1 day until The Ghost of Tom Joad 
Happy Birthday Clara Ann I Love 
ya! 
For all those people out there who 
are tired of the personals -tough! 
This is our only form of free expre­
sion. 

Monday, November 20, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 11 
Irish 
continued from page 16 
hitters Jaimie Lee and Angie Harris. Harris continues to rewrit11 the Irish record books, as in tlw second game against Pittsburgh, she served her 136th career service ace to sur­pass Alieia Turner's record in All-time career service ace set in 1992. Harris also broke her own record of service aces in a game, with 8 against Texas, earlier this season. 
Harris led the Irish in both matches of the weekend with 10 kills in the victory over Villanova and 18 kills against Pitt. These team-leading per­formances gained Harris the title of tournament MVP. This weekend was not the lirst time that Harris' name has shown up at the top of' the Big East, as sht\ was one of only two play­ers to earn Big East Player of the Week recognition twice. 
"I didn't even know about the Stlrving reeord," Harris humbly answered. "I think what is important is how well we played as team and what a good position we are in enter­ing the NCAA tournament." 
Indeed. the Irish are now in great position for post-season play. With the tournament drawing taking place next Sunday, the Irish will most like­ly receive a first-round bye, but if the bye does not come through, they will at least play host to their first NCAA match. 
The key now for the Irish is to monopolize the next week and a half to two weeks of practice and perfect their game to the point at which their resilience will not be needed. In other words, the Irish hope to get to the point where they do not find themselves in situations that call for recovery. 
"Confidence is the key to our success," Brown said. "In the next few practices, we will be looking to work out some of our weaknesses and get to the point where our confidence cannot be shaken." 
"We need to go out in the NCAA tournament and play consistently at the level at which we are capable of play­ing." 
1995 BIG EAST VOLLEYBALL 

TOURNAMEN,. 
#4 Villanova 
#5 St. John's 
#3 Connecticut 
#6 Georgetown 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
#4 VIllanova 
#1 Notre Dame 
\ #6 Georgetown
i ,\----------..... 
#2 Pittsburgh 
#1 Notre Dame 

' ,#1 Notre Dame 

\ 
~~----' 
#2 Pittsburgh 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer 
ad. 
CQ!.lRSES AQQEI2 
AERO  350  OJ  #4452  -Aerodynamics I; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 09:05-09:55; Aero 240 prerequisite  
AME  598E  01  #4453  -Fund. ofCombustion; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 10:10-11:00; cross-listed with  
ME 456-01  
AMST  386H  01  #3641  -Add restriction: "Majors only"  
ARST  462S  01  #4455  -Professional Video Production; 4.0 cr. hrs.; MWF 12:50-02:05;  
Permission Required; Cross-listed with COTH 463  
CSE  700  01  #4450  -Non-resident Thesis; 1.0 cr. hr.  
<;EOS  498  01  #4456  -Directed Studies; var. cr. hrs.; Permission Required  
ME  49!!B  01  #4451  -Directed Studies; var. cr. hrs.  
Ml  561  01  #4454  -Dante's Intellectual History; I cr. hr.; T 03:00-05:00; Class meers  
3/19/96-4/16/96; cross-listed with ROIT 423-01 and LLRO 424-01  
MUS  540  01  #4449  -Bibliography of Music; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 09:30-10:45  
CHA!'-!GES  
ACCT  372  01  #0354  -Add restriction: "Seniors only"  
ACCT  383  04  #4272  -Change days/time to: MW 12:50-02:05  
ACCT  383  OS  #4273  -Change days/time to: MW 02:20-03:35  
AERO  360  01  #1225  -Change prerequisite to: "(Aero 350 or ME 334) and ME 327)"  
AMST  491  01  #3096  -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all"  
AMST  493  01  #3149  -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all"  
AMST  591  01  #3097  -Add restriction: "Graduate majors only"  
AR111  48!!  01  #3675  -Add "Permission Required"  
ARST  243S  01  #3124  -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all"  
ARST  2B'JS  01  #\SOB  -Add restriction: "ARST or DESN majors only through 3rd period; then  
open to all"  
ARCH  546  01  #2353  -Change days/time to: M 06:30-08:30; PM Class  
ARCH  699  01  #0094  -Change ride to: "Thesis Preparation  
ARCH  699  02  #4261  -Change ride to: "Thesis Preparation..  
ARCH  699  03  #4262  -Change tide to: "Thesis Preparation"  
ARCH  699  04  #4263  -Change tide to: "Thesis Preparation ..  
ARCH  699  06  #4442  -Change tide ro: 'Thesis Preparation"  
BIOS  101  01  #1035  -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only"  
BIOS  107  01  #3556  -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only"  
BIOS  109  01  #3557  -Add restriction: "Freshmen and Sophomores only"  
BIOS  156  01  #3094  -Add restriction: "Freshmen only"  
BIOS  196  01  #3095  -Add corequisire: "BIOS 156L"  
BIOS  528  01  #0474  -Change rime co: MW 11: l 5-12:0)  
BIOS  532  01  #306)  -Add prerequisite: "Bios 531 or Chern 531"  
BIOS  539  01  #0518  -Remove mee!ing days/time  
CE  452  01  #3508  -Change title 10: "Introduction to Water Chemistry and Treatment"  
THEO 682 OJ #4234 -Change day/rime to: M 09:30-12:00 


CHEM 102 01 #0147 -Add restriction: "Nor eligible to students who have previously taken CHEM 116 or 118" CHEM 104 01 #3561 -Add restriction: "Nor eligible to ~ollege of Science or College of Engineering students CHEM 224 01 #2942 -Add restriction: "Non-CHEG majors only" and add corequisite: "CHEM 224L" 
CHEM 224A 01 #2941 -Add restriction: "CHEG majors only" 
CAPP 303 01 #3043 -Add restriction: "College of Arts & Letters students only" 
CSE 443 01 #2915 -Change rime to: MWF 02:20-03:10 
CHEG 698B 01 #3520 -Change time to: TH 01:15-02:30 
DESN 217S 01 #2310 -Add restriction: "ARHI, ARST or DESN majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" EE 440 01 #3532 -Change ending time to: M 02:20-03:20 ENGL 240H 01 #3730 -Change rime ro: TH 09:30-10:45 GOVf 344 01 #4372 -Change course number to: (Govt) 341 and add restriction: Juniors and Sophomores only 
GOVf 492B 01 #3824 -Change to "Permission Required" HIST 342 01 #2973 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" 
HIST 415 01 #3334 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open co all" HIST 422 01 #3461 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" HIST 454 01 #3025 -Add restriction: "Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all" 
liPS 602 01 #3090 -Change day/time to: T H 08:00-09:15 LLRO 511 01 #4146 -Change day ro: F 0 I: 1 5-04:00 
MATH 125 01 #2658 -Change rime to: MWF 11:15-12:05 
MI 502 01 #2526 -Change time to: M 12:45-01:30 Ml 634 01 #4089 -Change day/rime to: H 01:15-03:45 
MUS 223 01 #4309 -Change credit hours to: 3.0 
MUS 224 01 #4310 -Change credit hours to: 3.0 MSA 611 01 #4308 -Change tide co: "Communicating for Managerial Effectiveness" PHIL 538 01 #4119 -Change time to: TH 04:15-05:30 PHYS 309 01 #3595 -Add prerequisite: "Phys 116, 128, 142 or 222" PSY 353 01 #4132 -Remove "Permission Required" PSY 480A 01 #4447 -Change rime ro: MWF 02:20-03: I 0 ROIT 106 02 #0442 -Change time to: MWF 09:05-09:55 ROSP 570 01 #4165 -Change day/rime to: TH 04:15-05:30 
THEO 283 01 #4206 -Add restriction: "THEO 100, 200 or 201" 
THEO 400 01 #1457 -Change to "Permission Required" 
THEO 423 01 #3449 -Change time ro: MW 08:40-09:55 
THEO )23 01 #4420 -Change time to: MW 08:40-09:')') 
THEO 634 01 #4227 -Change day/time to: H 01: 15-03:4 5 
THEO 680 01 #4233 -Change days/rime to: TH 1J :OO-J2: J5 
CQ!.lRSES CA!'-!CELLED  AMST 303E 01 3630  CHEM 323L 46 8346  GOVf 301 OJ  3811  LAW 591FOI  4331  PHIL 241  03  4397  THEO 243T 02 0645  
AMST 347H 01 3024  COCT426 OJ  0874  GOVf 316F 01 3110  LAW 592A01  0035  PHIL 244 01  1081  THEO 262 01  0720  
ARCJI 699 05  #4264  AMST 386H OJ 3641  COTH 40 I 0 I 3704  GOVf 341  OJ  4372  LAW 629C 01  4333  PHIL246 01  2342  THEO 265 OJ  2807  
ARHI  252T 02  #1196  AMST414 01  3643  COTH 48J  OJ  1339  GOVf 373 01  3821  LAW 631F 01  1523  PHIL247 01  3383  THEO 270 01  3438  
AIUII  252T06  #0275  AMST461 01  4350  DANC 144 80  9780  GSC 464 01  439J  LAW 678A01  4334  PHIL250 01  4100  THEO 270 02  4205  
BA  392 02  #2692  AMST 4BIEOI 3650  DESN 282S 01  0380  HESB 434 01  38)2  LAW 695 01  0121  PHIL261  01  0310  THEO 281 01  3040  
BIOS  580 03  #2597  AMST 484E 01 3651  ECON 401 01  3717  HIST 327AOI  3884  LAW 695 02  2315  PHIL261  02  1343  THEO 290B 01 4209  
MBA  636 03  #2769  AMST 489E 01 3652  ECON 450 01  4358  HIST 363 01  3886  LAW 695 03  14Jl  PHIL263 01  4JOI  THEO 290C 01 4210  
MBA  636 OS  #1619  ANTH 386 OJ  366J  ECON 455 01  3720  HIST 403AOI  3888  LAW 695 04  2464  PHIL 263 02  4102  THEO 387 01  0122  
Ml  342 01  #3164  ANTH 387 01  4435  ENGL300N 01 3733  HIST 405A OJ  3890  LAW 695 05  1876  PHIL 264 OJ  4103  THTR 230 58  9758  
Ml  sss  01  #3165  ARCH 444 03  1195  ENGL314 01  3738  HIST406A01  3892  LAW 695 06  1087  PHIL 267 01  4104  THTR 272 60  9760  
ROFR  236 01  #2388  ARCH 562 01  0529  ENGL316FOI  3109  HIST 422AOI  3462  LLRO 522 01  432J  PHIL 637 OJ  4125  THTR 276 62  9762  
ARCH 564 01  1061  ENGL319B01 3J13  HIST424A 01  3899  MARK382 01  0560  PHYS 309 01  3595  THTR276 64  9764  
CLQSEU SECIIQ!'-!S AS  ARCH 566 01  2274  ENGL 325 01  3741  HIST427A01  3903  MATH 103 01  0394  PSY 405 01  2955  
QE ll;!l!!A.M. lllZ!ll'.!2  ARCH S85 01  10S8  ENGL 328 OJ  3742  HIST 447A 01  3907  ME  342 01  3491  PSY 431  01  4135  
ARHI169 01  0319  ENGL 340 01  3743  HIST 449A 01  3910  ME  439 01  2142  PSY 470B 01  0018  CLASSES IHAI WILL  
ACC..T231 01  2247  ARHI 461 01  3173  ENGL340B OJ 3744  HIST451A01  3912  MI  387 01  4396  PSY 478A 01  4401  REQ~EI'S AI Z~M lll2!l  
ACCf450 01  4335  ARHI 477 01  3176  ENGL36J  01  3745  HIST 454 OJ  3025  MI  405 OJ  406J  PSY 496 OJ  J900  
ACCT 476 02  2371  ARST 232SOI  1201  ENGL 383 01  3748  HIST 454A 01  3027  Ml  423 01  4063  RLST 335 38  9538  ARST  232S 01  1201  
ACCT477 01  2035  ARST 242S 01  1952  ENGL 384E 01 3749  HIST 457A OJ  3914  MI  525 01  4074  ROFR444 01  4J49  ARST  297S 01  1069  
ACCf 480 02  2242  ARST 297S 01  1069  ENGL 390B 0 I 3750  HIST467 01  3915  MUS 220 01  2538  ROSP 236 01  2530  CE  470 01  2448  
AFAM 329 01  .3075  BA  362 01  1390  ENGL 396A 01 3751  HIST 473 01  3917  MUS 222 01  0227  soc 332 01  4169  COTH481  01  1339  
AFAM 329 02  3622  BA  392 OS  4279  ENGL409 OJ  3753  HIST473A01  3918  MUS 224 01  4310  soc 338 01  4170  ENGL 409  01  3753  
AFAM 370 01  4349  BA  483 01  4280  ENGL480 01  3258  HIST 495 16  3923  MUS 225 01  1535  soc 346 01  3034  HIST  424A 01  3899  
AFAM .~84E 01  3623  BA  490 01  2840  ENGL 490B 01 3776  HIST 546 OJ  3933  MUS 226 OJ  2513  soc 370 01  2689  LLRO  522 01  432J  
AFAM 401 01  3624  BA  490 02  2318  ENGL 49J 01  OS09  HIST 579 OJ  3937  PHIL 227 OJ  4318  SOC 374 OJ  2023  PHIL  264 01  4103  
AFAM413 01  3625  BIOS 303L02  OJ61  ENGL 496Z OJ 3778  liPS 4J2 01  4424  PHIL227 02  4319  soc 401  01  4173  PHIL  637 01  4J25  
AFAM 414 01  3626  CAPP 361 01  1332  FIN 474 01  0604  liPS 493 OJ  3J48  PHIL239 01  4098  soc 422 01  4174  RLST  335 38  9538  
AI;AM 449 01  3627  CE  440 01  1742  FIN 474 02  4286  liPS S5 1 01  4254  PHIL 239 02  4099  THEO 237 OJ  0723  
AI;AM 454 01  3028  CE  470 01  2448  GE  410 01  3800  Ill'S 593 01  4427  PHIL 24J 02  0702  THEO 243T01 0721  

page 12 ~ The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 20, 1995 
•NFL 

'Majik man' returns to form as Lions edge Bears 
ByRICKGANO 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Don Majkowski was once a star in the NFL. The "Majik Man" had his own TV show, made the Pro Bowl and became a ceiebrity when he played in Green Bay. 
Now years and injuries removed from those days, Majkowski made the most of a chance with Detroit, subbing for the injured Scott Mitchell and leading the Lions to a 24­17 victory over the Chicago Bears on Sunday. 
Majkowski completed 15 of 19 passes, including a game­winning 11-yarder to Herman Moore with 2:32 left. 
"I know that in the blink of an eye you can be in the game," Majkowski said. "I have pride and sure I'd like to be full-time starter. But I under­stand my role. They made it easy for me. They got open and I got them the ball." 
Brett Perriman had a career­high 12 catches for 142 yards, and Moore caught six for 68 as the Lions won their second straight since owner William Clay Ford issued an ultimatum to coach Wayne Fontes-make the playoffs or find a new job. 
"This gives us the opportuni­ty a little bit to get out of the hole," Moore said. "But we're still in the trenches. This divi­sion is so close that any win is an important one. A defeat at this stage can eliminate you." 
Barry Sanders gained 120 yards on 24 carries with a pair of touchdowns and joined Eric Dickerson as the second back in NFL history to rush for 1,000 yards in each of his first seven seasons. Sanders said it wasn't a win-for-Wayne situation. 
"Wayne has told us we don't need to save his job. I don't think that had anything to do with it," Sanders said. 
The Bears (6-5) lost their third straight game as a final drive in the final seconds came up short. After Moore's touch­down, Erik Kramer hit Ryan Wetnight with a 22-yard pass and Michael Timpson with an 11-yarder that gave the Bears a first down at the Detroit 11. 
But on second-and-7, Wetnight was called for offen­sive pass interference, pushing Chicago back to 17. After off­setting penalties on the next play, Kramer hit Tony Carter short of the first and then threw incomplete on fourth with 49 seconds to go. 
"We had as many opportuni­ties to. score points and to do good things in this game as we've had all year long," Bears coach Dave Wannstedt said. "I really don't know what I can do. I've exhausted everything that I can possibly do to make us a better team." 
Detroit, which lost Mitchell to a sprained ankle with 5:40 left in the first half, also lost two fumbles in the second half but the Bears couldn't take advan­tage. 
Vernon Turner fumbled a punt with 9:53 to play and the Bears, behind two Robert Green runs, had a first down at the Lions 8. After two runs and a pass failed to reach the end zone, Henry Thomas blocked Kevin Butler's 25-yard field goal attempt. 
The Bears got it back when Majkowski fumbled a snap from center and this time Butler was short on a 52­yarder with 3:46 left, giving the Lions the ball at the 42. From there they moved in for the winning score. 
Sanders scored on a 29-yard touchdown run late in the third quarter to give the Lions a 17­10 lead. 
But a 42-yard pass interfer­ence penalty against Detroit's Corey Raymond gave the Bears a first down at the 2 and Kramer carried in on third­down bootleg to tie the game. 
Butler's 39-yarder early in the third had tied the game at 10-10. 
· ..••...·........• ~li,J~~·· •••.•. /
'tmli.lr$: ~~~~···. 

8~~rl~8~ ··~~~···· i?>ra~8 
That goal may have also stunned senior Julie Vogel who was credited for scoring it. Much to the surprise of the Irish defender, the clearing at­tempt by the Wisconsin defense hit her thigh and ended up in the back of the Badger net. 
The game also saw junior Amy Van Laecke continue her scoring streak as she whirled around and scored the first goal on an assist from Kate Sobrero. Van Laecke's sixth gamewinner accounted for her eighth straight game with a goal. 
During the middle of the sea­son, it was Vogel and Van Laecke who were implemented into a starting lineup that has now come together. 
"I think we're close to being settled in a lineup," Petrucelli said. "We're starting to know 

Badgers 
continued from page 16 
and ran." 

Some of that insanity involved the nature of Wisconsin's play. Finesse was not part of the Badger's arsenal as they made numerous attempts to slow down the quicker Irish with their physical game plan. Notre Dame, however, respond­ed in kind. 
"I thought we were pretty physical ourselves," Petrucelli commented. "They played pretty hard, but so did we. This game I thought we were as physical or maybe more physi­cal than they were." 
In the Irish's fifteenth shutout of the year, co-captain goalie Jen Renola turned away six shots, three within the first eight minutes during Wiscon­sin's only real span of offensive threats. 
"I thought we had some great chances and we didn't finish those," Badger head coach Dean Duerst said. "We're a team where we need to put a goal away against Notre Dame. We probably had the best chance to score a goal first and we didn't do it." 
Alas, chances are not fac­tored into the final score. The Irish capitalized on their chances, putting away five of their twelve shots. 
"Early in the game we fin­ished very well," Petrucelli noted. "We had a couple of chances that we put away and it changed the whole momen­tum of the game." 
"It really just took a lot of sting out of us," Duerst added. "It took the game away from us. I credit the way Notre Dame finished around the net. They took their first opportu­nity and took it well. Their sec­ond goal stunned some of our players and that hurt us." 
STUDENTS TRAVEL CHEAP 
FELLOW STUDENTS: Our truel 
discounts. Call TRAVEL PARTNERS. INT'L at: 
1-800-234-3456 or (708) 629-4444 
In Oregon
this is sexy. 
Long's Peak Parka'~ 
Nothing keeps up with Mother Nature's 
consistent ever-changing moods quite like a 
Columbia Interchange'" Parka-featured here 
in our Long's Peak Parka'." Includes a zip-out 
fleece liner, Radial Sleeve"" design, storm 
flap, security pockets and drawcord at waist. 
6Columbia 
...,. SponswearCompany 
MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY 10AMT09PM SA'IVRDAY 10AMT06PM SUNDAY NOONT05PM 
our roles a lot better." 

In addition to taking advan­tage of their opportunities, the Irish also demonstrated the defense that has progressively solidified over the season. This defense will be even more important as the Irish continue deeper into the tournament. 
"Any time they got in our end, we stuffed them," Petrucelli added. "We were very solid defensively. We're a much bet­ter defensive team than we were at the beginning of the year." 
With their eighth win a row now, Notre Dame appears to be hitting their stride. 
"We're starting to peak at the right time," Petrucelli said. "That's what its all about, play­ing well at this time of the year. That's what we've been striving for all year." 
T B
;
.

R 
l~ 

1 .~;.
~ 
..... 
. ~· 

. 
>
\ 
-~ ;~': ~~;_~-~ 

The College of Science Distinguished Scholar Lecture Series Presents 
D~p:rt~e~~B~!ca~?.!~
"Control of Reproduction 
in Amphibians" · :::::=:::­Tuesday November 21, at 8:00 P.M. Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium 
Room 283 

MonJay, November 20, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Hoopsters finish preseason undefeated 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
Thn Notre Dame Women's Baskntball learn has passed the quiz. Now tlwy have to get nmdy for the mal test. 
On Friday, the Irish defeated tlw lloosier All-Stars IJ0-83, in ovnrtime. This mtds a presea­son in which they finished 2-0, tlw other vietory coming against Sopron of llungary. Now tlwy must prepare for the tlw real season, which begins this Friday on the road against the real lloosiers of Indiana lJnivnrsity. 
Sophomore Molly l>eiriek was orw of five Irish players that seornd in doubln ligures. She linishml with 23 points, while juniors Kalryna c;aither and Bt~th Morgan each had I 6. 
Happy 
freshman Sheila McMillen lin­islwd with 12, and senior cap­tain Carey Poor added 10. Gaither also had a game-high 11 rebounds to complete the double-double. 
"Overall, I was really pleased with the offense," said head coaeh MuiTet McGraw. "This is the second game in a row that we've seored 90 points or more, so I have to be happy with that." 
Despite this offensive display, two glaring things the home team must work on stuck out in this game: defense and turnovers. The Irish surren­dered 83 points, a fact that scares coaeh McGraw. 
"Our defense concerns me right now. We have to be able to defend the dribbler better and defend the post. It's just a matter of attitude, pride, and reaching deep within oneself." 
The Notre Dame squad com­piled 36 turnovers. Peirick, Gaither, and Morgan, the veter­ans being counted on to lead the team this season, commiit­ted 20 of those 36. 
The oppsition is a team com­prised of former basketball stars from the state of Indiana, including former Notre Dame players Coquese Washington and current assistant coach Margaret Nowlin. Joy Holmes paced the squad with a game­high 25 points and 10 rebounds. 
Although the Irish opened up a 15 point lead within the last 10 minutes of the half following a McMillen three pointer, the Hoosiers went on a 14-6 spurt to cut the halftime score to 38­31. 
The second half featured more runs by each team. Notre Dame broke out of the gates early and opened up the lead to 64-44 with 10:43 left to play in regulation when McMillen hit 


The Observer/Eric Ruethling 

Beth Morgan scored 16 points as the Irish raised their preseason record to 2-0 during the win over the Hoosier All-Stars. 
yet another three-pointer. ulation, the Irish forced the 
Said coach McGraw, ''I'm game into overtime. First, very happy with the perfor-Poor hit two free throws, mak­mance of Sheila McMillen. ing it 76-73. Morgan came Although she's only a fresh-back down the court and hit a man, she played like a veteran long-range jumpshot, cutting by committing only one the deficit to two points. turnover." In overtime, the Irish went on 
With a strong comeback a 13-4 run, that gave Notre effort in the last minute of reg-Dame the lead for good. 

20th, Sean 
Loue !JOU. Mom unci Duct 
FOH MOHE INFORMATION CONTACT: Carver :\nrlerson ett 634-300 I or Biancl1i-Hossi Tours at I -800-875-4525 
An Invitation to the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
As students who feel obligated to respond to social injus­tices and as individuals who will soon be interacting in the workplace with people who are affected by those injustices. we feel it is important to voice our concern about legislation currently under debate in Washington. Therefore, we have written a letter to the President. the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
What is happening in Washington: 

As Congress and the President continue to struggle to reach a compromise on the budget, many politicians have called for changes in the structure of the welfare system. For example, Congress has considered reforms that will cut funding for food stamps, and they have also proposed cutting the Earned Income Tax Credit program. These programs are important because they provide a safety net for low-income families. allowing them a means of living as they work to gain a firm foothold in being financially independent. By drastically cutting these measures. the current proposals would cripple poor families and especially harm poor chil­dren. 
What the Church is doing: 
The U.S. Catholic Bishops Conference sent a letter on Wednesday to the Senate, the House and President Clinton, asking that they prevent these proposals from being enacted. We agree with the bishops' stance, as the following letter details. 
What you can do: 
Please read this letter. think about it, and talk about it with your friends. If your beliefs in the dignity of the human person support this letter, please join us in sign­ing below. 
You can sign the letter today at tables located In the dining halls, at a table near the elevator In the Huddle at LaFortune, or where It Is posted In your dorm. 
If you have any questions, please call Meg at x4973, Kate at x4803, or Brad at x2098. 
Thank you for your interest and support. 
R E A D 
T H 
s 

ND EUROPEAN BUSINESS SEMINAR 
Summer 1996 May 13-June 18th 
All majors & St. Mary~ welcome! 
Call Prof. Appel 621-5265 
, ad SIGN THIS TODAY! / 
)?20 November 1995 

Dear <President Clinton, Senator, Representative>: 
1\e, the stl.ld=nts of the University of 1\bb:l;! Cerna and Saint r.my•s College, are writmJ to yoo oot as J;Dlitical or ea:n:mic experts, rut as persons with a passionate cancern for the -11-b:!mJ of all peq:lle and a desire for an errl to the p:Jl.arizatirn of toth p:Jlitical J;arties that has paralyzerl ~rn. 
v-e stress that -are not advancmJ the agerrl3. of aqy J;Dlitical or ideological cause. Rather, = agarl:l is too defense of htnlEil life and htn1EI1 dignity. We ask that, in the ccrn.i.ng days as Congress debates the course of p.lblic J;Dlicy, you keep in the forefront of your rn:irrl the amsequences of all p:Jlicy cptirns oo the cx:nlltirn of 
the ~r. 

v-e agree with llBlilers of roth p:Jlitical parties that the current -lfare system nust b:! i..nproved, b.lt the chan]es rot~ l::ein] =iclererl are ml.y illusirns of progress. l'hlle they are labelerl as refarrrs, the ra:Uity is that the prop:Jserl legislation lacks the e<mnitnent and resources to help people m::we fran poverty and dependency to pr:cd.ctivity and self-sufficiercy. 
In the last few d:iys, our nation's catholic bish:ps have calle:l upon ~s and the President to SI.W)rt the national safety net and adhere to the nation's ccmnitrrent to protect poor children. With a sense of CXJTtX~SSian ech:lin] the catpassion of CJ..Ir Church's leaders, -affirm the bish:ps' p:JSition. As the bish:.ps st(\.terl, the weakest llBlilers in society should not b:! forced to bear the greatest b.irden.s. 
As the electro leaders of the Uniterl States, the President and all Congress m:rnbers have 6\\0m to uphold their resp:lT)Sibilities to all .Arrericans, incl\.rli.nJ the p:x:>r. 1\e ask that yoo h:Jnor this prmci.se cy carefully exanini.ng toth =rent le;Jislatioo and future legislation in light of their :inp3ct en society's v.eakest rrari:Es. 
PlEBSe consider our concerns, and look upon than as a step toward providirq the justice and CarpiSsion that 
the poor deserve. '!his can b:! a grand II"CllEI1t. 
With h::pe for justice and peace, 

Students of the University of 1\btre D3rre and Saint Mary's College 
Paid for by Student Government 
Game strategy reaps rewards rove 
t

By DAVE TREACY 
Sports Writer 
Adhering to a game plan is crucial to a team's perfor­mance. Once a squad suc­cumbs to its opponent's style of play, they're as good as dead. Just ask Wisconsin. 
The Badgers attempted to create an offense off of Notre Dame mistakes. They were determined to keep Cindy Daws from scoring, and tried to deny posession to Notre Dame in­stead maintaining it them­selves. Granted, in order to ef­fectively compete, you must know the strengths and weak­nesses of the opposition. But as soon as the Badgers became more focused on shutting down Notre Dame than playing their own game, they put their NCAA tournament future into the wrong hands. 
"We were never placed in any bad situations because we han­dled everything early," said sweeper Ashley Scharff. "The weren't dribbling at us, and we were able to push them back to their penalty box. We were just more effective than they were." 
Notre Dame took advantage of Wisconsin by refusing to make mistakes and involving all of their players instead of featuring Daws. The Irish did not stray from their stategy of passing and tight defense, and put pressure on the Badger backfield through solid drib­bling and timely looks. 
Posession was the name of the game once again, as Notre Dame was able to maintain control for most of the contest, virtually cutting off the life force of the Badger attack. Without the ball, the Wisconsin offense couldn't begin, and the few opportunities that were presented became all the more precious. 
"We're a team where we need to put in a goal against Notre Dame. If we can't make the most of our chances, we lose any advantages we might have. Notre Dame is too good a team to not get on early if we expect to win," said Badger 
The Observer/Rob Finch Senior defender Julie Vogel eludes a Wisconsin player while going for the ball. The Irish defense tallied yet another shutout in the 5-0 win. 
coach Dean Duerst. 
Another key component of the victory was taking advan­tage of scoring opportunities. Notre Dame managed only 12 shots on goal for the game, but connected on five of their attempts, the decisive percent­age due to concentration on converting scoring chances in practice. Shannon Boxx epito­mized the effective Irish attack, sending the ball home on three out of four shots. 
"Early in the game, we fin­ished very well. We had some chances that we put away that changed the whole complexion of the game," said Irish coach Chris Petrucelli. "For the first 20 minutes of play, things were pretty even. But everything changed once we started to score goals." 
Wisconsin had a rough day offensively, augmented by the stellar defensive display the Irish put forth all over the field. Wisconsin's only chances came early on, and their inability to cash in on opportunies took them out of the game. 
"I think that we had just as many scoring chances as Notre Dame did," said Duerst. "The difference was that they could convert and we didn't put any­thing away. Their defense played well enough that we needed to take advantage of our opportunities when they came, and we couldn't do it." 


"The whole team has to play defense, and that starts with the forward line," said Irish forward Amy Van Laecke. "Putting pressure on the ball at all times is very important to our game. It's something that we've really improved as the season has progressed." 
The Irish game plan must remain constant and effective for the rest of the NCAA tour­nament. If they hope to elimi­nate next week's opponent, Connecticut, they must once again concentrate on their own strengths and weaknesses rather than on those of the Huskies. If they play their own game, they're difficult to defeat. Just ask Wisconsin. 

MIAMI encore to part one of oea,nes Anthology," ABC­presents Elvis 
have to share the 1-n~·~-~a:titn..e-Monday 
0. And 
start as I Y:out'ig'~~ rE,PbLceJment when the 49ors face the Miami _-Young. sidelined 
_ ___ ore throwing shoulder, 
. -· ecovered rapidly from arthroscopic surgery last Monday and may be available off the bench. 
''Miami better be prepared for him. basically," 49ers coach George Seifert said. 

The quarterback drama also intludes Hall of Famer Fran 'I'~tJ<-euton. Marino needs three touchdown passes to break Tarkenton's NFL record of 
342;l/$v ­But Marino acknowledges that the game overshadows his pursuit of Tarkenton's most significant record. 
GMAT•GMAT•GMAT 
Are You Prepared? We Are. 
•Limit 
of 15 Students per Class 

•Free 
Extra Help 

•The 
Best Instructors 

•Satisfaction 
Guaranteed 


THE , PRINCETON REVIEW 
Classes begin Dec. 2nd for the Jan. 20, 1996 test. Call today! 
{800) 865-7737 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S. 
Breaking Away for Thanksgiving? 
Ride 

II~ITI=n I I~A()
=== ~= = = = == == ~ ~~ = 
............... ---....... 
·~ 

Your convenient connection to the Chicago Airports United Limo leaves campus ten times daily for O'Hare and Midway Airports. Board at the Bus Shelter on Notre Dame Avenue next to the Morris Inn. 
Arrive O'Hare Arrive O'Hare Arrive Mi wayLeave Campus AirportAirport 
Airport Bus Shelter 
Notre Dame Upper Level International Terminal All Airlines 

All Airlines TerminalS 
Via Connection to Upper Level 
Tri State Coach 

5:55AM 
6:10AM 6:00AM 
4:00AM 6:10AM 

7:55AM 8:10AM 8:10AM 
9:55AM 10:10AM 10:10AM 9:00AM 
8:00AM 

10:55AM 11:10AM 11:10AM 10:00AM 
11:55AM 12:10PM 12:10PM 
12:00AM 

1:55PM 2:10PM 2:10PM 1:00PM 
2:55PM 3:10PM 3:10PM 2:00PM 
3:55PM 4:10PM 4:10PM 
4:00PM 

5:55PM 6:10PM 6:10PM 6:00PM 
7:55PM 8:10PM 8:10PM 
Fares to Midway or O'Hare from Notre Dome: $28 One Way I $52 Round Trip 
Tickets con be purchased from our driver or through your travel agent. 
For further information call 254-5000 
Your Airport Connection •All Day, Every Day 
Monday, November 20, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE 
-
lNE.~L 1 lr 'STAP.Tt 0LJT ~oot>' ... "Bu, "'E.r< 'SA"\~, ''A \Ne. \...IOE. ,,.. Aro~ II ~oll"-\)A'1 1!-hl..L ~o 13'1 
i(DmA1'4TIC. ~t.AI<Tl\fi.DLlt.,~ 1\~vl'Y\>.\..'<. 

Qv\C.l<\..'1. Ne.w BLl'Sot<E.~~ 
T\Jr41TIE.S lf..\11..\... 
CALVIN AND HOBBES l'rn 9orma poyr.:J '/OU 
at r~c~ss, T'Nink.'{­
DILBERT 
:I

DOG8ERT THE CON5ULTANl" 
u 0 .. I RECON'\ENO ii-\AT @> 0.. "' :I
YOU REORGANIZE. 
.. 
..
TO STRENGTHEN THE c 
1­
0
CORE COMPETENCY OF 1-u YOUR COI"\PAN'<. 
"' 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Urbane 32 Polo shirt brand
1 Mrs. F. Scott Fitzgerald 33 Prattle 6 Three-legged 34Smog 
35 Track athlete 

10 Laud loudly 37 Jack of14 Bubbling, as hot "Dragnet"
water 38 Lowest bill
15 Panache 
16 Elderly 39 Zolatale 17 British runner 40 Trivial Pursuit's 20 Gigantic --Edition 
21 The Wizard of 41 Entrepreneur's Menlo Park funds 22 "... --any 
45 "And Then 

drop to drink": There Were 
Coleridge 23 Blowout 
46 Charged particle24 Northern 47 Photog's flash

Canadian body of water 50 Overconfidence 
f\fl.lif. ... " / 
AS LUC.K WOULD I-lAVE 

IT, YOUR CORE COMPETENCY !5 UGIVING MONEY 'TO CONSULiANTS." 


55 Victor Hugo novel, with "The" 57 Show biz star 58 Resort near Venice 59 Taken-­(surprised) 60 Putrefies 61 Sophomore, e.g. 62 Cheese nibbler 
DOWN 

1 40's boxer Tony 2 Noted Israeli 
diplomat 3 Western wolf 4 Designer 
Christian 5 Wellesley grads 6 Happens again 1 "What a shame!" a Dismiss, in slang 9Attempt 
10 Tire type 11 "It's--!" 
("Groovy!") 29 Afghan capital 12 Presidential no 30 Recedes 13 Nirvana 
31 Third place at Belmont18 Plant anchor 35 Courteous19 Waited around 36 "Bus Stop"23 Steady look 

playwright24 Organic fertilizer 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, bao;cd on your own \)o(2.m 1..\ov 
(Y\o"-01'1 .. 

date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) HAPPY lliRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Wishful thinking could undermine your efforts. Find out all you can about the people and projects you decide to take under your wing. New financial rewards are linked to your creative talents. Be inventive! Both business investments and your love life will take on a special sparkle as next summer approaches. Marriage is likely if you find your soulmate. Make sure the two of you are in agreement where children are concerned. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: concert pianist Ruth Laredo, actress Bo Derek, disc jock­ey Steve Dahl, comedian Dick Smothers. · ARIES (March 21-April 19): Business travel brings highly favor­able results. Sign contracts. Your pleasing personality and all-too­rare talents receive new attention. Do not let old insecurities sap your confidence. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Public acclaim comes to those who have proven themselves under fire. Someone 's reputation could be at 

li·'IP~ 

stake due to an indiscretion. Com­munication and compromise will help mend a domestic rift.
SCOTT ADAMS 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A banner day for writing assignments
~ 

and contract negotiations! You will 
~ I DON'T 

have difficulty communicating your ideas. Influential people are
.!: u THINK 

impressed by the breadth of your
~ 
u 

knowledge. CANCER (June 21-July 22):
:;; THAT'S THE 
ONL'< THING 

More can be accomplished from the
"'. ~ 

sidelines than by taking center stage. 
. , 
WE'RE 
IT DEPENDS 

Move forward with your personal 
plans. An energetic friend is as good
... GOOD AI. 
ON IF YOU 

as money in the bank. Expect the 
unexpected in romancef 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be
__) COUNT 
"WHINING." 


patient'. An oftice or personal prob­lem will eventually work itself out. 

A real estate venture looks finan­cially sound. New information puts money, favors or someone 's exper­tise at your disposal. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Taking calculated risks and plung­ing into new areas can bring you good luck this week. A credit arrangement provides the financial backing to launch a pel project. A romantic goal moves within easy reach. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Stay cool when conflicts arise at work. Clear away the debris and get others talking. You are at your persuasive best when dealing with romantic partner. Be careful not to get in over your head. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Be wary of business associates who like to play games. Show that you, too, are an expert at office politics. A flir­tation could put you on a collision course with a friend. Proceed slowly. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): The outlook is bright for those in search of employment or a college education. A change in a romantic relationship is a pleasant surprise. Remain true to your priorities. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Changing your anitude towards a project or romance will work to your advantage. You need to make a financial decision without further delay. Procra~tination only causes headaches. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Curiosity could make it difficult for you to stay out of trouble. Be subtle when asking questions. Pride leads you to probe behind the scenes for answers. Choose your confidants with care. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sit 
down and talk calmly with a loved one; new rapport is possible. Com­plete pending projects before start· ing new ones. Heavy spending habits spell trouble. Be frugal. 

•MENU  
Notre Dame  
North  South  
Chicken Nuggets  Turkey Turnover  
Ham Steak  Chicken Pot Pie  
Grilled Salmon  BBQ Ribs  
Saint Mary's  
Chicken Cacciatore  
Cajun Beef  
California Vegetables  

Celebrate a friend's 
... 
44 Be sullen 51 Biblical summit 
birthday with
Mt.­
47 Commotion 52 Jacob's twin48 Commotion 53 Jiffies 

Square 54 Japanese tipple 
happening 49 Haymarket 

a special
56 "Sprechen -­50 Fountain drink Deutsch?" 
Get answers to any three clues 

Observer ad 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

25 Home wrecker 26 Genesis lady 27 Spring bloom 28 Gemini rocket 
stage 37 Anti-Prohibition 39 Weeper of myth 40 Summery fabric 42 Gentle hills 43 Set one's sights 
on 


-
page 16 Monday, November 20, 1995 


Badgering Wisconsin 
Notre Dame advances in NCAAs with 5-0 shutout 
ByJOE VILLINSKI scored in a long time, but I couldn't have Assistant Sports Ediror done it without my teammates." 
One of her teammates, senior Michelle 

Notre Dame's first two goals against McCarthy assisted Boxx on her first goal. Wisconsin on Sunday originated in the cor­McCarthy broke down the Badger defense ner. on the left side and slid a pass back to 
The following three came from the Boxx. Boxx at the point who put it past Wisconsin 
True to her name, Shannon Boxx spent keeper Ursala McKnight. most of her time yesterday around the box Boxx then put the game away with two as the freshman recorded her first colle­more tallies, one in each half. For the giate hat trick in Notre Dame's 5-0 victory freshman, being able to position herself for over the Badgers in the NCAA regional those opportunities were just as important semifinals. as scoring them. 
The Irish are now expected to host Big "I was in the right place at the right East rival Connecticut next Sunday for the time," Boxx added. "I just came out ready opportunity to advance to the national to play." semifinals in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. She wasn't the only one. The Huskies moved on Sunday with a 3-0 "At the beginning of the game I looked win over Massachusetts. over and they (Wisconsin) were very excit­
That superfluous letter in Boxx's name ed about playing," Irish coach Chris could have represented the extra scoring Petrucelli said. "The difference was we punch the freshman provided the Irish as were a lot more excited. We were very the freshman seemed to be everywhere, prepared to play today. It was like we let scoring her first goals since September 24 them loose and they went crazy and ran against Seton Hall. 
"It was exciting," said Boxx. "I haven't see BADGERS 1page 12 

Irish freshman Shannon Boxx scored a hat trick in the 5-0 win over Wisconsin. 
• Vou..nBAI.t 

Irish overwhelm opposition to win Big East 

The Observer/Brian Hardy 

Angie Harris was a catalyst in the Irish championship win over Pittsburgh. The sophomore outside hitter broke the Notre Dame career record for service aces en route to becoming Big East Tournament MVP. 

Volleyball 
NCAA Tournament Action TBA 
Women's Soccer 
vs. Connecticut November 26, 1:00 p.m. 

-·· Hockey 
vs. Lake Superior November 24 &25, 7:00p.m. 

Notre Dame dominated the Big East in its inaugural season by finishing undefeated 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 

Resilience. The ability to recover quickly from illness, change, or misfortune. 
The fourteenth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team dealt with change at the beginning of the season with the loss of All-American hitter Christy Peters to graduation and senior setter Shannon Tuttle to an injury. 
The Irish have endured ill­ness as at least four of the players have missed one or more matches due to illness or injury. 
They have also survived matches of misfortune. such as the loss to Texas that ended the team's 27-match winning streak at home or the four consecutive losses over fall break. 
Basketball 

But the 26-6 Irish team has 
definitely recovered. 
In fact, Sunday's champi­
onship match of the Big East tournament was a perfect example of Irish resilience as the they bounced back from a fiery Pittsburgh first-game · performance to win the match 5-15, 15-7, 15-1, 15-4 and set Notre Dame's name in stone as the best team in the Big 
East. 
"I was really pleased with 
how the team bounced back 
and dominated Pitt after the 
first game," Irish head coach 
Debbie Brown said. "Pitt 
came out very emotional in 
the first game, but I just told 
the team to be patient." 
"I knew if we were patient, 
everything would fall togeth­
er." 
With its 13-0 conference 
record, the Irish already 
claimed the regular season crown, but with the victory over Pitt and a 15-3, 15-9, 15­12 victory over Villanova in the semi-finals on Saturday, they were officially named the 1995 Big East Champions. 
In addition to the team suc­cess, the Irish received manv individual accolades from the their new conference. Junior co-captain Jenny Birkner was named Big East Player of the Year, while Brown received Big East Co-Coach of the Year recognition along with Villanova head coach Ron Twomey. 
"Jenny Birkner is just a great all-around player," Brown said of the 5-11 outside hitter. 
"She is not as over-powering as some of the other players, but she is such a great player on both sides of the net. 
Joining Birkner on the first­team are sophomore outside 
see IRISH I page 11 
Athletes in Action (exb.) November 20, 7:30p.m. at Indiana November 28, 7:30p.m. 
• Lions outlast Bears 
see page 12
SMC Sports 

Basketball at Kalamazoo College • Knicks barely escape Grizzlies November 25, 
see page 10 

• Women's hoops beat Hoosier All-Stars see page 13 





