
Thursday, October 12, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 39 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Sinn Fein leader to bring cause to campus 
By DAVE TYLER purposes, I'm sure," said Kevin Ireland from British rule. Over ganization, Sinn Fein has, un­ing Adams in terrorist activi­News Editor Klau, who is coordinating the last 20 years, the IRA has der Adams' leadership, blos­ties. The following year the U.S. Adams' visit for Notre Dame claimed responsibility for nu­somed into a pivotal player in granted Adams a 48 hour visa, 
Gerry Adams, head of Sinn Student Union Board (SUB). merous terrorist activities in the Northern Ireland peace despite the protests of British Fein, the political wing of the Adams' visit is sponsored by Ulster and elsewhere. In the process. leaders. On St. Patrick's Day in Irish Hepublican Army. will SUB and Student Government. past year, however, IRA para­Last year, in what observers March, Adams was received at speak Nov. 1 at Stepan Center According to its mission state­military activity has ended in considered a stunning move, the White House by President as part of his current tour of ment, Friends.of Sinn Fein is the wake of a cease-fire and the Irish and British govern­and Mrs. Clinton. the United States. dedicated to "developing rela­peace process that hopes to end ments asked Sinn Fein to par­Despite the controversial na­
When Adams returns to tionships with Irish American the "troubles" between Catholic ticipate in the Irish Peace ture of Adams' political affilia­Northern Ireland at the conclu­organizations and other demo­Republicans and Protestant Initiative. A tenuous truce has tion, Klau expects no security sion of his American visit, the cratic, human rights organiza­Loyalists. held in the Six Counties since problems during the visit. money he earns from his Notre tions in order to mobilize Amer­As president of Sinn Fein, August of 1994. "He's probably safer here Dame speaking engagement ican support for the efforts of a Adams has become the most The 4 7 year-old Adams left than he would be in his own may return there as well. just and lasting peace in Ire­visible IRA figure in the years­his occupation as a barman in country," Klau said. 
The Sinn Fein leader will give land." long battle over Northern Ire­Belfast in 1969 to become in­Tickets for the lecture are $3, his $18,000 appearance fee to The group has been regis­land's six counties. Author Tim volved in Irish Republicanism. and are available at the infor­an organization called Friends tered with the Justice Depart­Pat Coogan. in his book "The Adams has been president of mation desk at LaFortune Stu­of Sinn Fein. a not-for-profit ment, a measure the U.S. im­IRA: A History," said that Sinn Fein since 1983. dent Center. Tickets will ini­lobbying group based in plemented to track the disbur­Adams has had a hand in His current trip to the U.S. tially be offered to students, Washington and New York. sal of funds solicited by the "every important policy change has proven less controversial faculty, and staff at Notre 
"The purpose of Friends of group. and every significant docu­than his previous three visits. In Dame, Saint Mary's, and Holy Sinn Fein is obviously to pro­Sinn Fein is the political wing ment. .. which has emanated 1993, President Bill Clinton Cross College due to space con­mote their cause in Northern of the Irish Hepublican Army from Sinn Fein or the IRA in the refused Adams' request for a cerns. Availability of tickets for Ireland, but the money will be (IHA}. a group dedicated to past 15 years." visa after British authorities the general public, if any. will used for a number of different freeing six counties in Northern Once considered a fringe or-gave Clinton a dossier implicat-be announced at a later date. 
NO to present BC with Ireland Trophy 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE ships shared by their students." Assistant News Editor The Ireland Trophy is designed to reflect "the Catholic charac­
Student Body President ter, Irish heritage, and spirit of Jonathan Patrick and Vice­sportsmanship" that the two President Dennis McCarthy will schools have in common. present the Ireland Trophy to In addition to these "unique" the students of Boston College connections, there should al­as a token of good will, accord­ways exist "a spirit of respect" ing to a resolution passed at between the schools, "especial­the Student Senate meeting last ly when their athletic teams night. meet of the field of com­
Because Notre Dame and petition," the resolution states. Boston College "share in the The Senate, in conjunction tradition of Catholic education, with the Student Government, celebrate a mutual Irish her­is presenting the award in or­itage, and have two storied der to ensure that "the special football teams," the trophy is relationship of friendship" be­being presented to the student tween the students of both body of Boston College at the schools will always be "pre­home football game against the served and enhanced." 
school on October 28. According to the resolution, "The most important connec­the Ireland Trophy will be pre­
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
Will they look this good on TV? 
tions" between Notre Dame sented to the winner of the an-
Student football managers finish the traditional pregame helmet painting by buffing the helments with 
and Boston College, as stated in 
a cloth in preparation for Saturday's game against Army. 
the resolution, are "the friend-see SENATE/page 4 

Federal history revisions 
Candace Gingrich blasts Ne-wt 
draw fire from all sides sunny autumn day. But Ms. Gingrich, R-Ga., has said that
Speaker's sister Gingrich, 29, who has been on school programs that deal with By SALLY STREFF BUZBEE Senate Majority Leader Bob 
a 51-city tour as a new spokes­gays and lesbians may be thinly Associated Press Dole, H-Kan., who criticized the highlights Day; woman for the Human Rights veiled efforts to recruit new 
standards in his presidential 

Campaign, attracted some homosexuals, and has rejectedWASJIINGTON campaign, hadn't seen the rec­right-wing reacts media attention. The group, the idea of passing a federal 
National history standards, ommendations, a spokesman 
which is the nation's largest law protecting homosexuals challenged by conservatives as said. By MARCY GORDON gay lobby, launched a coming from job discrimination. too gloomy and politically cor­But at least one conservative Associated Press out campaign last April to urge Employers should not inquire
rect, should be rewritten to group said they did not go far gay men and lesbians to tell about the sexual orientation of emphasize the founding fa­enough. · WASHINGTON people about their sexual ori­an employee, the speaker has thers, the Constitution and "At the heai,"t of the problem Candace Gingrich, the lesbian entation in hopes of ending dis­said, but if they do inquire and America's opportunities, a is the fact that. if you have na­sister of the House speaker, crimination. fire the employee, there should group of historians and teach­tional boards determining these marked "National Coming Out After Ms. Gingrich's brief be no recourse to the federal ers said Wednesday. things, then politically correct, Day" by addressing a rally at speech, reporters asked about courts. 
anti-American standards could

"They contained a lot in them the Capitol and asserting that her brother's conservative Gingrich spokesman Tony
that deserved criticism," said happen again," said Jennifer 
her brother's views on anti-gay views on discrimination against Blankley, asked about Ms. Gin­Albert Quie, a former Min­Marshall of the Family Re­discrimination laws put him "in gays. grich's remarks, said the search Council. 
nesota governor and Hepubli­the minority." "I happen to know that he's speaker was "delighted that his 
can congressman who led the The Bush administration and 
Also at the Capitol on in the minority," she replied. "I sister is out expressing her po­panel organized by the private the nation's governors -Wednesday, the Traditional know that the majority of litical beliefs .... Obviously, they 
alarmed by declining test

Council for Basic Education. Values Coalition declared it Americans do not want to see don't agree on everything but. 
The voluntary standards also scores -in 1989 first proposed "National Coming Out of Homo­gays and lesbians in our coun­they still love each other like a should focus more on American encouraging states to have all sexuality Day" and featured try discriminated against. ... My brother and sister." 
students meet national aca­

scientific and technological several speakers who had brother does not feel that gays Ms. Gingrich met with her 
breakthroughs, the panel said. demic standards. "come out of the homosexual 
and lesbians need federal pro­brother last March when she And they should drop biased Since then, math standards lifestyle." The conservative tection in the workplace, and went to the Capitol to lobby for 
have been adopted by many

language .and lesson-plan ex­group says it represents more he has repeated myths and gay rights. The two said at the 
amples that critics said came states and schools. 
than 31,000 churches nation­stereotypes about gays and les­time they have a strong rela­too close to pushing a national But the history standards, de-wide. 
bians that I happen to know are tionship although they strongJy curriculum. Both rallies were small on a untrue." disagree.
see HISTORY/ page 4 


-------------------~ --~ ----------~------------...... 
.~ 
t 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Reflections on kartoon karma 
Many are numb to the ------­philosophical impor­Pete Goyer tance of cartoons. The Illustrator last excursion offered a -------­sliver of Scooby Doo Dogma (The Observer, September 7). That slight taste helped facili­tate conversation in hopes of discouraging cartoon apathy. Tedious personal examina­tion of Scooby Doo and his comrades should lead to increased self worth or righteous confidence in oneself. 
However, do not plunge into animation analysis with aspirations of easily embrac­ing the euphoria of personal enlightenment. Not all cartoons are worthy of such perusal, and many do not offer any opportunity for self development. Such is the case with many of the products of the creators of Scooby Doo, Hanna-Barbara. 
At the risk of hypocrisy, Hanna-Barbara was responsible for many worthless shows. The dependable viewer may have been caught unaware in the late 80's watching the dreaded USA's Cartoon Express, and the harbinger of animation mediocrity and shal­lowness came from Hanna-Barbara. The swirling star proved to be the trademark of generic brain rot. Grape Ape, Snaggle Puss, Huckleberry Hound, Quick Draw McGraw, Droopy, and the whole cast of Laugh Olympics were all discolored and shallow. They were all weird, annoying and more importantly, all meaningless -especially with that beloved bear Yogi and his little friend Booboo. 
Just because every trailer park and camp ground west of the Appalachians wallows in his legacy does not make Yogi entertaining. That rhythmical crescendo of Yogi's voice is quite a gem. Talk that way for an hour. You will become more annoyed than the day you missed the revelation that Racer X is Speedy's brother. 
If creativity points are to be given, it would be for the names. Yogi? Booboo? One can imagine Yogi parading around bars asking girls if they've seen his little Booboo. However, let us not be too creative. Yogi's girlfriend Cindy and his friend Ranger Smith reflect some of the great standard proper nouns. 
Credit must be given to Hanna-Barbara for their consistency. The stories were all the same, everyone of the characters wore some sort of hat and tie, and they all had strange coloring and funky voices. In an innovative move, however, Hanna­Barbara's Laugh Olympics were the first children's shows where the bad guys like Dick Dastardly and his sidekick could cheat and actually win. 
Hanna-Barbara may have had a lot to do with Scooby Doo, even the mental develop­ment of Droopy. However, the bulk of their animated series were meaningless. How can someone relate to a 6 story purple goril­la who wears a beanie and bow tie and who can only say, "Grape Ape!" Its just too weird and]ust not funny. Though the agen­da on Capitol Hill remains negligent and the Vatican has yet to issue a statement, car­toons are major molds of society. Cartoon scholars must be careful not to waste hyper­activity on immature subjects with little substance. Until the next frolic amongst friends, family and flowers ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Viewpoint Heather Cocks Josh Pichler Melanie Laflin Brandon Williams 
Spons Production Mike Day Jackie Moser Graphics Heather Dominique Brian Blank 
Lab Tech Michael Hungeling 
• The Obse..Ve{ (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduaion rights are reserved. 
Thursday, October 12, 1995 

The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Hurricane Roxanne heads toward gulf coast 

TULUM, Mexico 
Shrimpers and oil workers fled inland 
to port as Hurricane Roxanne headed for Mexico's Gulf coast Wednesday, a day after roughing up the resort isle of Cozumel and the Yucatan's Caribbean coast. A hurricane warning went up all along the southern Gulf of Mexico, an oil­rich area of lowlands that was heavily flooded last week by Hurricane Opal. Campeche state Gov. Jorge Salomon said some 150 shelters were ready to receive 15,000 people, offshore shrimpers had headed to port, and rail and highway traffic were being disrupted as a danger­ous Roxanne approached with sustained winds near 75 mph. Roxanne's 110-mph winds swept over the Yucatan on Tuesday, smashing windows, snapping lamp posts like pencils, and toppling palm trees. Telephone links with the island re­.sort of Cozumel remained cut Wednesday, and plane and ferry services 
were still suspended; damages to Source:Accu-Weather 
Cozumel were reported as being minor. 
Authorities said a coastal storm surge with flood tides up 
to six feet above normal could still be expected, possibly 
with battering waves, both along Gulf coastlines of 
Campeche and neighboring Tabasco states. At 5 p.m. 
Three tenors announce world tour 
LONDON 
To an explosion of camera flashes, the world's favorite trio of tenors announced Wednesday they will reprise their hit Rome and Los Angeles concerts for 300,000 fans in five new cities. Jose Carreras, Placido Domingo and Luciano Pavarotti treated the world's media to a 45-minute perfor­mance designed to show they harmo­

nize both on stage and off. So, are they rivals? Absolutely not. "The fact is that we are very, very good friends and the great moment is when we perform together," Domingo told reporters crowded into the banquet hall at London's Wembley Stadium, second stop on the tour. "When you are singing with two colossal colleagues," interjected Pavarotti, "the only rivalry is with yourself ... " On tour, they will perform material from the sell-out Rome event and from their second smash concert in Los Angeles in 1994, as well as some new material. Tickets for the Giants Stadium concert will range from $25-$500. The events will be broadcast live nationally, but there are no plans for worldwide screenings or for recordings. 
Counselor loses temper, hits client 
HONOLULU 
An anger-management counselor lost his temper and 
allegedly punched a man who arrived at a class drunk. 
The man lapsed into a coma and was declared brain 
dead. Charles Mahuka, who was on parole for attempted 
murder, was arrested on suspicion of assaulting 32-year­
old Miguel Gonzales at a meeting Monday night at a 
church in Waianae. Mahuka could face murder charges if 
Gonzales dies. Dora Hoopii-Spalding, a witness, said 
Mahuka, 39, punched Gonzales, knocked him to the 
ground and hit him three more times while he was down. 
Gonzales was drunk and ignoring requests to stop being 
disruptive, she said. Gonzales had been ordered by 
Family Court to attend the anger-management class after 
he was arrested and accused of assaulting his girlfriend. 
The program's director said Mahuka has helped many 
people deal with their abusive impulses. Mahuka went to 
prison for stabbing a man with a fishing spear in 1986. 

EDT, Roxanne's center ~as closing in on the city of Campeche on the west coast of the Yucatan peninsula, head­ing west at about 12 mph, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Miami. The Center said Roxanne was moving toward the west, which would bring the eye over the bay of Campeche by Wednesday evening. The storm was expected to strengthen once it moved into the southwestern Gulf. Along the Yucatan coast, resi­dents spent the day sweeping shat­tered glass from storefronts and restaurants amid sporadic rain. In Tulum, a town of ancient Mayan ruins, fallen palms blocked the road leading to the archaeological site, and the two bamboo sentry huts at the entrance were abandoned. Officials in southern Texas were watching Rox­anne in case it veers north; Texas Gulf residents have been fortunate this year in missing most effects of a series of powerful hurricanes. Roxanne, the 
lOth hurricane of the busy Atlantic storm season, is 
threatening to become one of the worst storms to hit the 
peninsula since Hurricane Gilbert swept through the 
Caribbean in 1989, killing 300 people. 
Dagwood and Blondie: Marital bliss? 
NEW YORK 
For 65 years, Dagwood Bumstead found the answer to his problems in an overstuffed sandwich or a snooze on the couch. Welcome to the '90s, Dagwood: He and Blondie are headed to the marriage counselor. The comic strip couple, who have enjoyed connubial bliss since 1933, hit a bump in the marital road when Blondie decided last week to move her catering business outside the family home. In this Sunday's comic, a co-worker will mention the "m-word" -marriage counselor. But fear not: Cartoonist Dean Young said there are no plans to draw up divorce papers. On Monday, the couple will decide to visit Dr. Marjorie Squabble. The good doctor will spend a week helping Blondie and Dagwood get their marriage back on track in what Young calls a "racy" episode for the strip. The idea of the Bumsteads trying to get in touch with their inner children has Young laughing already. Dagwood hasn't found much sympathy from other characters in the strip while trying to persuade Blondie to stay-home. Cora Dithers, the wife of Dagwood's boss, offered this advice on Wednesday: "Keep your big fat mouth shut!" The strip is published in more than 2,300 papers worldwide. 
Tainted Lebanese bologna recalled 
WASHINGTON 
A Pennsylvania company is recalling 275 tons of Lebanon bologna that was distributed nationwide and may be contaminated with salmonella bacteria, the Agri­culture Department said Wednesday. The recall, by the Palmyra Bologna Co. of Palmyra, Pa., affects a number of brand names: 6-ounce packages of Swift, Eckrich, Kroger, America's Choice and Super-G brands; 8-ounce and 16-ounce packages of Bomberger brand; and 6­ounce, 8-ounce, 12-ounce and 16-ounce packages of Seltzer brand. Lebanon bologna is a semi-dry, fermented sausage different from common bologna, which is fully cooked. The recall follows an outbreak in September of about 40 cases of illness associated with salmonella in south-central Pennsylvania; the disease causes flu-like symptoms such as stomach pains, diarrhea, nausea, chills, fever and headache. No deaths were reported. Products should be returned to the store. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 


The AccuWeather~forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 12. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure 
H L B &'SJ rnl 0 
.,., __
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES 

Anchorage 40 28 Chicago 77 56 Milwaukee 70 57 AUsnta 76 62 Dallas 83 60 New York 80 57 Battimore 83 52 Dayton 82 52 Philadelphia 81 56 Boston 70 51 Las Vegas 69 56 Phoenix 90 67 Calgary 60 37 Moose Jaw 59 32 San Diego 79 62 

Thursday, October 12, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
O'Meara makes appointments Symposium honors 
Special to The Observer 
University of Notre Dame aca­demic-administrative and facul­ty appointments for the 1995­96 academic year have been announced by the University's provost, Timothy O'Meara. 
Newly appointed to academic­administrative positions are: 
• 
Klaus-Dieter Asmus, profes­sor of chemistry and biochem­i!itry and director of the Radia­tion Research Laboratory. 

• 
John Baker, visiting assis­tant professor of German and Hussian languages and litera­ture and director of the lnns­bruck program. 

• 
Sister Joris Binder, O.P., as­sociate director of the Center for Continuing Formation in Ministry. 

• 
Steven Buechler, associate provost. 


• Angie Hicks Chamblee, as­sociate dean, Freshman Year of Studies. 
• 
Jeanne Day, department chair of psychology. 

• 
Elizabeth Doering, director of the Angers Program. 


• Ivan Jaksic, assistant 
· provost for international stud­ies. 
• 
Jeffrey Kantor. department chair of chemical engineering. 

• 
Charles Kulpa, director of the Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control. 

• 
Louise Litzinger, assistant dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. 

• 
Jerry Marley, department chair of civil engineering and geological sciences. 

• 
Scott Maxwell, professor of psychology, to department chair. 

• 
Juan Migliore, associate de­partment chair of mathematics. 


• William Nichols, professor of accountancy, to associate dean for the MBA Pl'Ograms in the College of Business Admin­istration. 

• 
Mark Pilkinton. department chair of communication and theater. 

• 
F. Clark Power, acting chair of the Program of Liberal Stud­ies. 

• 
Ramachandran Ramanan, assistant department chair of accountancy. 

• 
Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost for information tech­nologies. 

• 
Joseph Rosenfeld, director of law school computing. 

• 
Colonel Thomas Runge, pro­fessor and chair of the de­partment of aerospace studies. 

• 
John Uhran Jr., associate dean of academic affairs for the College of Engineering. 

• 
Susan Youens, department chair of music. 


Pythons carried by flood 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK, Thailand First it was crocodiles. Now it's pythons. 
The big snakes are the latest jungle creatures to be swept into Thai streets by monsoon floods. 
Almost 100 pythons-which squeeze their prey to death ­have been captured over the past three weeks around Bangkok, said Alongkorn Ma­hannop, director of the Dusit Zoo. 
"Usually, they live in their holes under the ground, eat rats, chickens, cats or dogs," Alongkorn said. "The big ones can eat people." 
But flooding caused by heavy monsoon rains has flushed the pythons out of their holes and slithering into the city. 
"We have got many calls, at least seven people a day, asking us to help capture the snakes," Alongkorn said. 

He said the longest python captured so far was about 10 feet. Captured snakes are kept at the zoo until they can be re­leased in national parks. 
There have been a few cases of python bites, Alongkorn said, adding that although the snakes are not poisonous, it is possible to contract tetanus or other infections from a python bite. 
Bangkok residents already fear what the tide may bring. Newspapers have been filled with reports that hundreds of crocodiles freed from their pens in farms in the north may have swum into Bangkok along the Chao Phrya River. 
Notre Dame's Desantis 
Special to The Observer 
Five prominent historians will give lectures and leac;t discus­sions on American history Oc­tober 13-14 during a sympo­sium entitled "American Politi­cal History: The State of the Discipline" in the University of Notre Dame's Center for Con­tinuing Education (CCE). 
The symposium, which is free and open to the public, is spon­sored by Notre Dame's history department in honor of Vincent DeSantis, professor emeritus of history. DeSantis, who studied for his doctoral degree at Johns Hopkins University under the direction of American historian 
C. Vann Woodward, joined Notre Dame's history faculty as an instructor in 1949 and be­came a professor in 1962. 
A popular undergraduate teacher and graduate mentor. he served as chair of the his­tory department from 1963-71, and has been retired since 1982. Books of which he is the author or co-author include "Republicans Face the South­ern Question: The New Depar­ture Years, 1877-1897", "The Democratic Experience, Ameri­can Past and Present", and "A History of United States Foreign Policy." 
The symposium is designed not only for professional histo­rians, but also for historians teaching at the high-school and university levels, their students, and interested lay people. All presentations will take place in the CCE auditorium, and will include time for questions and answers. 
Carl Degler of Stanford Uni-
All aerobics classes are 1/2 off after break! Spots are still open. Start your winter workout today! 

New Location -University Commons 
Male & Female models needed: 
for advanced training in the most progressive Michiana salon 
call and make an appointment for free haircuts, perms, semi-permanent & permanent hair color 
Call us now and schedule your new look! 
272-1225 
AK~ 
ARCirtAOLOGY-niB AI.T AND SCIENCE OfPUBEFLOWEllAND ~ESSENaS 
I0% off all Aveda products all the time with ND/SMC Student I.D. 
versity will give the sympo­sium's keynote address, "His­tory Counts, or the burden of American Politics," at 10 a.m. on Friday, October 13. Degler is the author of numerous histori­cal works, including "Affiuence and Anxiety in America Since 1945". "In Search of Human Nature", and "Out of Our Past: The Forces that Shaped Mod­ern America." 
Michael Les Benedict of Ohio State University will speak on "The Politics of Reconstruction" at 1:30 p.m. Friday. A specialist in the history of the Reconstruction era, he is the author of "The Impeachment and Trial of Andrew Johnson", "A Compromise of Principle: Congressional Republicans and Reconstruction, 1863-1869". and "Fruits of Victory: Alternatives to Restoring the Union, 1865-1867." 
R. Hal Williams of Southern Methodist University will speak on "The Politics of the Gilded Age" on Friday at 3 p.m. Williams is the author of "The Democratic Party and California Politics, 1880-1896" and "Years of Decision: American Politics in the 1890's." Currently, he is at work on a biography of James Blaine, a central figure in the political life of the Gilded Age. 
Jane DeHart of the University of California at Santa Barbara will speak on "Gender and Poli­tics: Reapproaching the Famil­iar" on Saturday, October 14 at 
9:30 a.m. DeHart specializes in 
U.S. women's history. Her pub­lications include "Sex, Gender, and the Politics of ERA: A State and the Nation." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

DAYTONA BEACH 
I :J j'II,IJijI 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 12, 1995 
Israeli troops leave West Bank 
By SCHEHEREZADE FARA­MARZI Associated Press 
West Bank 

Palestinians chanted "Goodbye!" and fired shots into the air in celebration Wednesday as Israeli soldiers loaded their gear onto trucks and withdrew after 28 years of occupation. 
The mood was conciliatory for this hotbed of Palestinian resistance, which has seen 31 residents killed in clashes with soldiers and where people once cheered when an informer's body of was strung up on an electric pole. 
"I can live with the Israelis in peace if we can get our rights," said Ali Sabha, 21, who won early release from an Israeli jail Tuesday along with 881 other Palestinians as part of the Israel-PLO accord. 


The army's departure from the villages of Qabatiyeh, Yatta and Kharbata came Wednesday despite mutual accusations and growing animosity between Israel and the PLO over imple­menting the agreement on Palestinian rule in the West Bank. 
Under the accord, Israeli troops will leave Palestinian towns and villages over the next six months, and the West Bank's 1 million Palestinians will be granted self-rule. 
Saeb Erakat, a member of PLO leader Yasser Arafat's cab­inet, criticized the modest beginnings, saying Israel's pull­out from the villages was cos­metic. 
In a conciliatory gesture, Israel permitted the return from exile of three senior PLO guerrilla leaders who plotted past attacks on Israelis, in­cluding a 1975 bombing in Jerusalem that killed 14 peo­ple. 

"We were soldiers in the war. But now we are soldiers of peace," one of the returnees, Mahmoud Alul, said after meet­ing with Arafat. 
Palestinian officials said the three men -Alul, Mustafa Liftawi and Izzedine Sharif ­were being groomed to take over as West Bank district chiefs in Ramallah, Tulkarem and Nablus after the Israeli troop pullout. 
Israel opposition leaders responded angrily, saying the government was dishonoring the families of the men's Israeli victims. 
Hundreds of Palestinians gathered around the Israeli military government headquar­ters to watch the army leave. 
calls" about the ticket ex­change, according to McCarthy. 

Senate History
Only 300 tickets were avail­continued from page 1 able for exchange for the 
continued from page 1 
upcoming football game against 

nual Fighting Irish-Eagles foot­USC on October 21. Because 
veloped by a University of Cali­ball game "from this year for­the tickets were available on a fornia, Los Angeles, panel un­ward." It shall be kept by the first-come-first-serve basis, no der a Bush administration con­students of the victorious 
more student tickets can be tract, were roundly denounced school for one year after win­exchanged. when they came out last fall. 
ning it. 
Conservatives said they over­The trophy, which contains a 
Although he said he under­stated negative parts of Ameri­
dedication similar to the word­stands that the Ticket Office can history, such as the Ku ing of the resolution, as well as wants to keep the student sec­
Klux Klan and the 1950s rise of scores from previous games, tion reserved for students, Mc­McCarthyism, while neglecting
will be present at the pep rally Carthy expressed his concern Thomas Edison, Benjamin on Friday and on the field be­that more tickets should have 
Franklin and George Washing­fore the game. been made available for ex­ton.
In other Senate business, in­

change since the game is President Clinton's education 
formation on the exchange of scheduled at the end of Fall secretary, Richard Riley,student tickets for general ad­Break, and many students un­agreed.mission tickets was announced. able to attend the game want to In one section, the indepen­The student government of­sell their passes to people seek­dent panel found, the standards
fl.ce has been."swamped. with ing general admission tickets. call for students to study the re-
HOT. 
Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 
MAC. 

Not the burger, pal-the killer computer. 

ligious beliefs of American Indi­ans and blacks in early Amer­ica, but fail to mention the be­liefs of European settlers. The group recommends adding that. 
"We focused on seeing whether the general underlying statements of principles were sound," said Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham, a Harvard University professor. 
The Council for Basic Educa­tion is a Washington-based nonprofit group that advocates a rigorous liberal arts curricu­lum for all public school stu­dents. It was asked by the Ford Foundation, the Pew Charitable Trusts and the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foun­dation to examine the stan­dards after they stirred contro­versy and make recommenda­tions. 
The UCLA group said it would examine the proposals and work to put out a new edition. "We have an obligation to do that," said UCLA history pro­fessor Gary Nash. 
But Marshall, of the Family Research Council, said the in­dependent panel should have recommended scrapping the idea of voluntary national stan­dards altogether. 
The standards won't be truly voluntary because states, local school districts and teachers will feel pressure to follow them, Marshall said. Her group recommends, instead, that pri­vate organizations publish cur­riculum guides. 
"Then, their merits can be tested in the marketplace, and teachers can choose, rather than be pushed," she said. 



Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hard your life is for a Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, in fact, that the minute and start thinking about how easy it will be with aMacintosh.The com-Ap 1 .. prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. puter that gives you the power any student can use.The power to be your bese 
p1e.. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB · 631-7477 M-F 9am-5pm 
Produd prices, product aiXJilabaity and sales taxes may IXJry. Offer expires October 13, 1995. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Performa, PowerBook, Laserlfti/er Select, Color StyleWriter and 'The power to beyour best" are regis/enid tmdemarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Power Macintosh and Mac are trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. CardhShop Plus Is a registered trademark ofMindscape. All Apple'products are designed to be accessible to individuals wilb disability. 7b learn nuJTe (U.S. only), call 800-776-2333 or 7DD 800-833-6223. 


Thursday, October 12, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Selena's death claimed Americans win Nobel prizes 



APIWm. J. Castello 

Raise Your Scores! Satisfaction Guaranteed Small Classes+ Dynamic Instructors Practice Testing + Free Extra-Help ~=CETON (800) 2-REVIEW~.,REVIEW Mfo.chlcago@revlew.com The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S.  

to be an accident 
By TERRI LANGFORD 
Associacod Press 
HOUSTON 

The former Selena fan club president accused of murdering the Tejano singing star was waving a gun and it accidental­ly went off, a defense attorney told a jury in his opening state­ment Wednesday. 
A prosecutor, however, told jurors that the shooting March 31 at a Corpus Christi motel was a "senseless and cowardly act of violence." 
"The perpetrator of that act, the person sitting in this court­room, Yolanda Saldivar, shot her in the back," District Attor­ney Carlos Valdez said. 
Ms. Saldivar, 35, rose from fan club president to overseer of the Grammy-winning singer's clothing business. On the day of the slaying, Selena had gone to the motel to fire her for allegedly embezzling $30,000. 
Defense attorney Douglas Tinker argued that Ms. Saldivar did not realize Selena had been hit by the .38-caliber handgun she was hQiding. 
>•., 
~ "'t.: . 
-"'to../ .............. ~ ..­

The Cen~er fb~a~ic Learning Skills needs Notre Dame studentswho can tutor educatioi!:~ly disa4v_Cln'tlg_ed 
students in ~J1!df~ If you can volunteer one morning per week or every two weeks from 9 am to noon,
,. 
please call Andiew at 634-4196 
The Center for Social Concerns is hostin a conversation on: 
•

After O.J Challenges for the Common Good 
Thursday, October 12 4:15-5:30 p.m. at The Center for Social Concerns, 
Multipurpose R.oom 
with panelists: 

Gloria-Jean Masciarotte, Dept. of English Warren Outlaw, Educational Talent Search Terry Phelps, Law School Clark Power, Program of Liberal Studies 
"She waves it around. The gun just went off," Tinker said, adding that Ms. Saldivar told police the story "repeatedly, repeatedly, repeatedly." 
If convicted, Saldivar could get up to life in prison. 
Tinker maintained that Ms. Saldivar had been harassed by Selena's father, Abraham Quintanilla Jr. 
Quintanilla, the first prosecu­tion witness, denied threaten­ing Ms. Saldivar. 
He said he confronted her in January after getting com­plaints from parents who said they bought their children $22 memberships in the Selena Fan Club, which had been orga­nized and run by Ms. Saldivar, but received nothing. 
Quintanilla testified Ms. Sal­divar told him those parents just were trying to get a second T-shirt, biography sheet and picture of Selena for free. But he said a review of club records made him believe she was stealing. 
"I told her I was going to go to the police and make an in­vestigation for embezzlement," he said. 
~~ 

By JANE ALLEN 
Associaced Press 
LOS ANGELES 
Two Americans and a Dutch scientist won the Nobel Prize in chemistry Wednesday for their controversial work warning that gases once used in spray cans and other items are eating away Earth's ozone layer. 
Two other Americans re­ceived a physics Nobel for dis­covering subatomic particles. 
The chemistry prize went to Mario Molina of the Mas­sachusetts Institute of Technol­ogy, Sherwood Rowland of the University of California at Irvine, and Paul Crutzen, a Dutch citizen working at the Max Planck Institute for Chem­istry in Germany. 
Work by Molina and Rowland predicting an ozone "hole" laid the groundwork for its discov­ery in 1985 over the South Pole. 
"The three researchers have contributed to our salvation from a global environmental problem that could have catas­trophic consequences," said the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in Stockholm. 
The Nobel in physics went to Martin Perl of Stanford Univer­sity and Fredarick Reines of the University of California at Irvine. 
Reines, a 77 -year-old physi­cist and professor emeritus with a penchant for quoting Shakespeare and singing Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, is hospitalized with an undis­closed illness. 
"It's sort of ironic," said a colleague who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. "He's deserved this for many, many years. It comes now when he's ill and not able to fully appreci­ate it." 
Reines was honored for dis­covering the neutrino, one of the smallest particles in the universe, in the 1950s. 
Perl was honored for research in the 1970s into 
another sub'ltomic particle, 
called the tau .'epton. 
The Royal S .vedish Academy 
said their work answered ques­
tions about "the smallest con­
stituents of the universe" and 
' what they can tell us of the 
history of the universe and of 
its future." 
The work by the winners of 
the chemistry prize led indus­
trial countries to agTee to phase 
out ozone-depleting chemicals 
known as chlorofluorocarbons 
by 1996, a move some scientists 
continue to question. 
"I believe that the Swedish 
Academy has chosen to make a 
political statement," said S. 
Fred Singer, a Fairfax, Va., 
physicist who designed the in­
strument used in satellites to 
measure ozone. Singer said it 
remains unclear whether CFCs 
are responsible for the ozone 
hole. 
Molina, 52, and Rowland, 68, 
working separately from 
Crutzen, reported in 197 4 that 
the CFC gases used in spray 
cans, refrigerators and other 
items threatened the ozone 
layer. 
They calculated that if the use . of CFC gases continued without 
lessening, there would be a sig­
nificant depletion in the ozone 
layer, the natural barrier 
against cancer-causing 
ultraviolet radiation from the 
sun. 
Crutzen also explained in 
1970 how nitrogen oxides react 
with ozone to accelerate the re­
duction of the layer. 
Molina said he sees his Nobel 
Prize as vindication for the field 
of environmental science, long 
belittled by mainstream scien­
tists. "This shows that one can 
do rigorous science that is hy­
pothetical, but can also be test­
ed and applied," he said. 
Larry Overman, a UCI chem­
istry professor, praised Row­
land for taking an active role in 
influencing international re­
sponses to the ozone problem. 
"The easiest thing would 
have been hide in the lab and 
continue doing science, and not 
take it to decision-making 
form," Overman said. 
Perl learned he had won the 
physics award with a wake-up 
call from The Associated Press. 
"Although physics is compli­
cated from the math stand­
point, if you relate it to the way 
the world is made, it's amaz­
ingly simple," he said. 

1995 Martin L. Perl and Frederick Reines, United States 
1994 Clifford G. Shull, United States Bertram N. Brockhouse, Canada 
1993 Russell A. Hulse and Joseph H. Taylor Jr. United States 
1992 Georges Charpak,France 
1991 Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, France 
1990 Jerome I. Friedman, Henry W. Kendall, United States Richard E. Taylor, Canada 
1989 Norman F. Ramsey,United States Hans G. Dehmelt and Wolfgang Paul, United States, Germany 
1988 Leon F. Lederman, Melvin Schwartz and Jack Steinberger,United States 
1987 Alexander Muller and George Bednarz, Switzerland, Germany 
1986 Ernst Ruska, Gerd Binnig,Germany and Heinrich Rohrer, Switzerland 
1985 Klaus von Klitzing,West Germany 
The first tau particles were probably created in the Big Bang that started the universe, but they have long since disap­peared . 
Perl had to create tau parti­cles in a particle accelerator to study them. 

page6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October 12, 1995 
FBI investigates derailment
Monkeys contract virus similar ·to HIV 
By MICHELLE BOORSTEIN 
Associated Press 
HYDER, Ariz. 
The FBI called in a crane Wednesday to lift toppled Am­trak coaches so agents could look underneath for clues to whoever sent the train off a bridge. 
Ninety agents, some on their hands and knees in the dust and creosote bush, searched the gulch around the cars of the Sunset Limited, which toppled from a 30-foot-high trestle early Monday, killing a crew member and injuring at least 78 people. 
Agents assigned to Operation Splitrail also fielded a trickle of calls to a new toll-free hot line, interviewed nearby residents about what they might have seen, and checked railroad records for leads to possib~y disgruntled employees. 
At the scene 55 miles south­west of Phoenix, the search covered one square mile. 
"They're in and out of cars, they're on their hands and knees, they're in the railroad cars, they're up and down hills, we're all around the area," FBI spokesman Jack Callahan said. 
FBI Director 4>uis Freeh was asked on his way out of a Washington briefing if he antic­ipated arresting "the guys" responsible for the derailment soon. 
"Guys?" Freeh responded, underlining that the bureau has not reached conclusions about whether one or more people were involved or even the gen­der of the saboteur or sabo­teurs. "We're going to do the best we can," Freeh added. 
A senior Justice Department official in Washington, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Wednesday that at least three copies had been found of a note interpreted as claiming re­sponsibility in the name of a group called "Sons of Gestapo." The official said more copies may have been found. 
The notes mentioned the gov­ernment sieges at Waco, Texas, and Ruby Ridge, Idaho -both of them rallying cries for right­wing extremists. They also reportedly mention agencies including the FBI, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, and an unspecified local sheriff. 
The official denied a report in today's Los Angeles Times that investigators are leaning to­ward the theory the derailment was the work of'a disgruntled railroad employee. 
"We're still open-minded. We're not leaning in any direc­tion yet. We looking at railroad employees and radical groups," the official said. 
The FBI hot line received 130 calls in its first 22 hours, com­pared with 3,000 that came in during the same period in a far bigger case, the Oklahoma City bombing. 
FBI spokesman Susan Lloyd noted there are far fewer po­tential witnesses, since the train derailed in the middle of the night in a roadless stretch of desert. 
Also Wednesday. Randy Weaver, the white separatist at the center of the siege at Ruby Ridge, issued a statement de­nouncing the sabotage and say­ing he had never heard of "Sons of Gestapo." 
"I am angry that anyone would use the tragedy that oc­curred to my family as some kind of justification for further senseless killing and more tragedy," said Weaver, whose wife and 14-year-old son were killed along with a federal mar­shal in the 1992 siege. 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Kan. 

A scientist says he has suc­ceeded in causing AIDS in mon­keys with a virus more closely resembling the one that infects people -a development that overcomes one obstacle to the development of drugs and vac­cines against the disease. 
Vaccine research had been slowed because HIV, the hu­man AIDS virus, has not caused monkeys to become sick with AIDS. 
However. monkeys can devel­op the disease. from the simian immunodeficiency virus, which is similar to HIV. 
Bill Narayan, a virologist at the University of Kansas Medi­cal Center, used a virus devel­oped by Harvard researchers that combines parts of HIV with SIV. 
He then increased the strength of the hybrid virus by passing it from monkey to mon­key through bone marrow transplants. 
Within six months of being infected with the newly devel­oped virus, about 20 monkeys developed many of the symp­toms seen in humans. Three monkeys have died so far of AIDS-related causes, and four others are severely ill. 
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, called the new virus a signifi­cant fmding. 
"We have been trying for so many years to find an animal model for HIV," he said. "This model will accelerate re­search." 
The National Institutes of Health has given Narayan a four-year, $1.6 million grant to continue studying the virus. 
Dr. Norman Letvin, who helped develop the hybrid virus, described Narayan's work as a technical step, not a breakthrough, and said several laboratories are working on making monkeys sick with the virus. 
Letvin said it was premature to discuss Narayan's work be­cause it has not undergone re­view by other scientists. 







CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
"COMING OUT DAY" she is, to respect and celebrate their lives, to acknowledge unique 
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR REFLECTION talents and gifts, and to be a help rather than a hindrance as each 
of us faces the challenge of growing to our full potential in Christ. Each October 11, gay and lesbian people celebrate "coming out I believe that this is the reason why harassment of gay and lesbian day'' in cities across the nation. Sometimes important aspects of people is sinful conduct which has repercussions on each of us and the celebration of this day can be lost because of political weakens our efforts to build community together. For each person 
contingencies. I would like to take this opportunity to prescind who resolves today to avoid negative judgments, cruel jokes and from political agendas which can advance concepts which are words or characterizations that demean gay and lesbian people and 
troubling for many people, and focus instead on the value of every hurt them, Notre Dame will be a better place for all of us. person regardless of sexual orientation. It is important for us to state over and over again that gay and 
"Coming out" day is important for many people across the nation lesbian students are welcome at Notre Dame and belong here. and at the University ofNotre Dame. It provides all of us with an They have every right to profit as much as they can from their opportunity to examine our own attitudes and perspectives. Notre Dame experience and to contribute to the common good. 
The awareness of people on our campus has been raised because of I hope and pray that each of us will examine our consciences often 
debate and conversations which have taken place on campus since so that we can all live out our Christian commitments with joy last spring. I believe Notre Dame is a more welcoming place for and in peace. gay and lesbian students because ofwhat has taken place, but all of us surely can profit from acknowledging that we have a long way Richard V. ~rner, CS. C to go before our campus climate is one where gay and lesbian students both know and feel they belong. It is also crucial for us to TWENTY-EIGHTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME continue our efforts in the light of the fact that Notre Dame is a 
WEEKEND PRESIDERS

Catholic University. 
AT SACRED HEART BASILICA 

The teaching of the Catholic Church in the area ofsexual ethics is 
Sat. Oct:ober 14 5:00p.m. Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. dearly stated and surely serves as a principal source for us as we try 
Sun. October 15 10:00 a.m. Rev. Rpbert Moss, C.S.C. 
to deepen our faithful commitment to Jesus Christ and the Gospel 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Patrick Neary, C.S.C.

in a Christian community which supports and challenges all of us. 
The call to live a chas.te life is not only one of the ways in which 
we respond to the Lord. It is also one of the strongest bases on 
SCRIPTURE READINGS FOR
which our respect for each other is built and it is one ofthe pillars 
THIS COMING SUNDAY 

for a vibrant Christian community where the lives ofbelievers 1ST READING 2 Kings 5: 14-17
provide witness and hope to everyone. 2ND READING 2 Timothy 2: 8-13 This is one of the reasons why we must really resolve every day to 
GosPEL Luke 17: 11-19 
look at every person as the singular and distinctive individual he or 
Thursday, October 12, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Mobster admits to murder Menendez brothers 
By WAYNE WOOLLEY lawyer's question. Each defen­run a gambling operation. Associated Press dant is represented by his own Martines emerged from the 
on their second trial 
lawyer. bathroom and shot Veasey in 
ByJEFF MEYER down at the table when they
PHilADELPHIA Last week, Veasey's lawyer, the back of the head, he said. 
Associated Press were shown while Lyle, 27,
If the mob meant to intimi­Joseph Fioravanti, said the "He said, 'Bye Johnny' and 
looked straight ahead. 

date "John-John" Veasey by slaying would not intimidate his then POW! POW! POW!" Veasey 
LOS ANGELES Prosecutors contend the

rubbing out his brother, it did­client. said. "I spun around and said 
Lyle and Erik Menendez went brothers killed because they
n't work. "He is grieving the loss of his 'Frank, what are you doing?' 
on trial again Wednesdayin the feared they would be cut off
The 29•year-old hit man­brother, but he is resolute They was my friends. I didn't 
brutal murders of their par­from the family fortune. De­
turned-informant took the about meeting his obligation think they'd shoot me." 
ents, this time without the TV fense attorneys maintain they
stand for the second day and will be testifying later on in Veasey said he began to fight 
cameras that made them had been victims of sexual and
Wednesday at the trial of John the trial," Fioravanti said. with Martines, who had emp­
household names in the first emotional abuse and killed
Stanfa, reputed boss of the Stanfa, who authorities say tied the gun, and then Pagano, 
trial. their parents out of fear for
Philadelphia mob, and told a was backed by the Gambino armed with a small knife, 
Jurors were grim-faced as their lives. 
rapt courtroom how he killed crime family of New York and grabbed him from behind. 
Deputy District Attorney David Weisberg banned TV cameras
and tortured for the Mafia and the Sicilian Mafia, is on trial Each time Martines hit 
Conn said the brothers "tore and recording devices from the
survived a botched hit last with seven other reputed mob­Veasey in the face with the pis­
into the bodies" of their par­courtroom for the retrial, say­
year. sters. tol, "I'd hit him back," Veasey 
ents with shotgun blasts at the ing he feared coverage might
Last week, Veasey's 35-year­The eight were among 27 said. "He said 'You're dead.' I 
family's Beverly Hills mansion taint the unsequestered jury.
old brother, William, was shot people charged last year in a said, 'I ain't dead yet.'" 
six years ago. The brothers' first trial in
at least four times in the chest racketeering indictment that After overcoming both men, 
"We will show they were am­1993-1994 was televised.
in South Philadelphia by two lists three murders and crimes each at least 6 inches taller 
bushed in a storm of gunfire," The judge has allowed still
gunmen who were waiting for including conspiracy, extortion, than Veasey, he staggered to 
Conn said in his opening state­photography.
him when he returned home loansharking, gambling, kid­the street and into the home of 
ment. "Large pieces of their Erik's lawyer, Leslie Abram­
from getting doughnuts. napping, and obstruction of jus­a woman who called an ambu­
mother's body were blown son, objected three times in the
Investigators believe the gun­tice. lance. 
away and they kept firing.'' initial stages of Conn's opening
men either sought to intimidate Stanfa faces life in prison if "I was able to talk the whole 
Separate juries in the broth­statement, saying his use of the 
John Veasey or killed William, convicted. Most of the others time until they put me on life 
ers' first trials were unable to word "slaughter" in describing
a mob associate himself, face sentences of at least 40 support, until they put the 
reach verdicts last year and the Aug. 20, 1989, killings was
because of his bookmaking years. tubes down my throat," he 
mistrials were declared by Su­argumentative.
activities. John Veasey, once a "capo," said. 
perior Court Judge Stanley Weisberg agreed and re­
But the brash Veasey -who or captain, in the Stanfa family, Doctors removed bullet frag­
Weisberg. minded the jury that opening
taunted Stanfa from the stand already has pleaded guilty to ments from the back of his 
One jury was impaneled for statements strictly allowed at­
on Tuesday by forming his racketeering-murder charges head, and a bullet remains 
the retrial. • torneys to outline their case.
hand into imaginary gun and for a 1993 shooting. lodged in his chest, he said. 
Opening statements got a late Conn told jurors the brothers
pulling the trigger -was un­Two weeks after turning gov­Veasey spent two days in the 
start Wednesday because of tried to divert attention away
flappable under cross-exami­ernment informant, he survived hospital before going to jail. 
problems including a sick al­from themselves during the in­
nation for more than 2 1/2 what prosecutors allege was a In testimony that left some ju­
ternate juror. That juror was vestigation's initial phase by
hours. hit ordered by Stanfa. rors agape, Veasey told of how 
dismissed, leaving five alter­suggesting the killings were a
He left the team of defense In testimony Wednesday, As­he once tortured a man he 
nates. Mafia hit. 
lawyers visibly exasperated on sistant U.S. Attorney Robert knew only as "Joe Fudge" with 
Conn opened his case by Before opening statements,
several occasions, offering Courtney asked Veasey about a power drill "for 15, maybe 20 
showing graphic pictures of the Abramson expressed concern
Stanfa lawyer Jack Meyer a the events of Jan. 14, 1993 -minutes." 
dead Jose and Kitty Menendez. that the jurors might be af­
drink of water from the witness the night prosecutors allege Fudge had threatened to kill 
"They shot their parents in fected by criticism that jurors
stand and at one point identify­defendants Frank Martines and Veasey and bothered Veasey's 
the arms, legs, torso and in the O.J. Simpson trial
ing Assistant U.S. Attorney Joel AI "Pajamas" Pagano tried to family. 
heads," said Conn. "Hundreds received last week. 
Friedman as "the nice-looking kill Veasey. "I smacked him in the face 
of shotgun pellets tore into the Weisberg asked the jurors
fellow with the maroon tie." Veasey said he was taken to with the drill," Veasey said. "I 
bodies of Jose and Kitty whether the Simpson jury
Testimony ended for the day an apartment above a South stuck the drill in his chest, his 
Menendez." experience would influence
after one of the defense lawyers Philadelphia meat store under legs, then I hit him in the knee 
Some jurors looked intently them.
objected to another defense the pretense of learning how to with a baseball bat." 
at the photos. Erik, 24, looked None raised a hand. 
7~ ~ Z'eu~ee FRESHMAN RE,TREAT'~~­. , .. -' '... ............ , . . • ;.,. ·'-. . 1-. . .,.,.;_ .•1 • . , Friday, November 17 (4:00pm) -Saturday, November 18 (6:00pm) 40 WOMEN + 40 MEN FROM Carroll Flanner Cavanaugh Pangborn Farley Siegfried0MPUS Fisher StanfordMINISTRY A LIMITED NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE at the Campus Ministry Office, 103 Hesburgh library. Questions? Call Fr. Bob Dowd, CSC (1-7800/1-5056)  

--------~--~------------------~--------------~~--~-.~.-------------~------------~----­
---.!....·-----­

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Thursday, October 12, 1995 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Man3.ger 
Elizabeth R<gan Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ..................... .Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Ktista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Direcror .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflecr the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
The endoWDlent speaks, but unfortunately not on W JO 
Out of the frying pan and into to terrestrial forces would ruin Perhaps this fantasy is some­it is a kind of immense slow sea Ross, for example. I think it's the fire! I've been the subject it. Such seems to be the admin­what outlandish. I see Monk tortoise, laying millions of somewhat unhealthy for some­of much abuse lately in these istration's point of view, any­Malloy, in yesterday's Observer, sticky, tiny eggs which, upon one to enjoy the sound of his pages, hard words which have way. Here we are, without announced plans to actually hatching, will provide a buffet own voice as much as I do, but succeeded in driving me figura­even a single department in the spend some of this money on for seagulls. The few that it keeps me from assaulting stu­tively, if not literally, into the top ten of any discipline -and education -as opposed to the made it into the surf of actual dents by St. Mary's lake, so I arms of Charles Rice. Professor that immense, untouchable sum harlot of institutional "pres­spending would carry on the persist. DeSantis says I should make continues multiplying in the tige." More and better books line, someday developing into with the large issues and live ether, its uses secret and its and magazines, a reader-print­huge crusty amphibians them­GET WITH THE PROGRAM, up to his nickname for me, the identity, ineffable. er that actually works, a guide selves, and assuring nature and ALREADY! "Walter 
to our microfilm resources, nature's god of a con-It has come to my attention Lippman of I see a maybe even -get this -some tinuing cos-that the vast Notre Dame." secret way to force Hammes bookstore mic balance. majority of stu­Personally I preist­to put some of its obese profits This is per­dents don't read see myself hood at into lowering the ludicrous haps more in Common Sense, more as the Josh service, book prices students are faced line with any more than Walter w or­with every year. Who knows? Teilhard de they listen to Brennan of ship­Perhaps the Sacred Chardin's WVFI-a mis­
Ozersky

Notre Dame, ping its Brotherhood of the Endowment evolutionary take on both but that is nei-ten-fig­might even look into lowering christanity counts, especially ther here nor u r e tuition. than Charles given my regular there. (Stop splen-As far as attracting top-flight Rice's, but I contributions to me someone d o r . students to the graduate pro­like it any­these organs. please, before I get to the Like the Mayas of old, an grams, however, I say forget it. way. One But putting such point.) arcane and unutterable liturgy They're a bunch of jerks any­thing is for stuff aside for the 
I've made fun of Rice for a accompanies the bloody rituals way. Mediocre students need sure: Notre moment. those of long time. When he suggested of sacrifice. The eerie music of an education too. (A similar Dame should you who are reinstating the Iron Maiden for administrative cliches hovers logic once led Richard Nixon to start spend­upset with the parking violations, for example, overhead. Endowed professor­nominate an admittedly ing money status quo ought I thought he was goint a bit too ships are offered up at the mediocre supreme court jus­right and left. to think about far, and said so in print. Nor do transparent altar, their presti­tice, Roman Hruska, on the "For where submitting some-I support running Averroes as a gious mystique spilled over the basis that mediocrities should your treasure is, there shall thing to Common Sense. We write-in candidate in the 96 marble floor in hopes of sum­be represented on the Supreme your heart be also." (I'd like to here at the Observer try not to election. But I have to go along moning the djinn as incense Court too. Yet another way thank the Gideons for providing get too mixed up in partisan with him on this: the university burns. that President was ahead of his this quotation.) controversies or political ill will, has got some pair raising Lo, it comes! The billion-dol­time.) The question is, what but at Common Sense the tuition while our immmense lar endowment speaks out of a about top-flight undergradu­WJO IS ON THE AIR gloves are off (as O.J. would endowment grows so prodi­whirlwind: it speaks in the ates, particularly stone-poor This news may be less than say) and every man is his own giously each year. "The ineffable language of money, ones? I would like to know how thrilling to those of you who get columnist. ·For my part, I am Endowment," he writes, "seems which neither man nor priest many non-athletes get a free­quite enough of me in these just happy to be included in to have taken on a life of its may close his ears against. In ride here. That would be a columns, but I had my first what our press releases own." distorted and thundrous sylla­good use of our obscenely large WVFI radio show this morning, euphemistically call the Notre 
Spontaneous generation? bles, it tells of vast and sym­endowment. The hell with and I enjoyed it a lot! I played Dame community, so much so 
Who can say what happens, metrical investments, generat­competing with places like some very obscure music to that I am legging it for home 
what dedicated sums reach ed by subsidiary demiurges. Princeton and MIT. where you support my lifelong thesis that with all deliberate speed in a 
such dizzying heights. Our "Go forth and tell Rice not to can't throw a rock without hit­people were a lot cooler in the matter of hours. Have a nice 
endowment is so big they need worry!" it concludes. "The Law ting half a dozen endowed pro­forties and fifties than they are break, everybody. 
a special mainframe coproces­School shall get its half-a-mil­fessors. now, as well as a number of 
sor just to add it up. Like one lion; a fifth more than Arts & Maybe I have chosen to spoken word recordings I got Josh Ozersky is agraduate 
of those crystal matrices which Letters, but such is my caprice. wrong metaphor. Perhaps our off my old records and my VCR student in history and can be 
must be manufactured in space, I, the Endowment, have spo­Endowment is not an extra­-Alec Baldwin's motivational reached by e-mail at 
any exposure of this vast sum ken." dimensional life form. Perhaps speech from Glengarry Glen Joshua.A. Ozersky.! @nd. edu . 
'Lo, it comes! The 
billion-dollar endowment speaks out of a whirlwind: it speaks the ineffable language of money, which neither man nor priest may close his ears against.' 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

A U7Tt£ SHAKY. I K£&P '!!il313!NG THAT CAR COMINGAT /E, ANI/ THEN U5 FL-Y­
ING OFF /N7D THAT (j()~ FAUING.,. FAU/NG ... 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is certain because it is impossible." 
-Tertullian 

VIEWPOINT
Thursday, October 12, 1995 page 9 
• Goo 'N LIFE 
Taking a second crack at a smile 
Greetings! 
Imagine prehistoric humans, without language, with­out the written word. What was the first greeting? A smile. In His infinite wisdom, God meant to show all gener­
ations the importance of a smile as greeting. This silent gesture overcomes all barriers, spoken and uhspokeri. lt'also brightens the day. 
People can say "Good morn­ing" out of habit, without mean­ing it. To consciously smile as the words are delivered takes an extra effort, and makes the greeting genuine. After all, what is good about a morning after a sleepless night? What is good about a morning that threatens thunderstorms or (soon enough) three feet of snow? 
A smile makes it good. 
How many kinds of smiles are there? Each is unique, isn't it? That makes it even more of an uplifting experience. Watch a group of tod­dlers being entertained by a clown, and each delighted little face has a different smile. A freshman girl has a distinct smile for the junior basketball star she loves. And every single smile is a sign of encouragement which bolsters the spirit. 
Daily on the campus, we pass many people we don't know, but who share a common goal: survival, if noth­ing else. We cannot ignore each other. It would be like trying to navigate Chicago during the rush hour and ignoring the other cars. Why not greet one extra person today with a sincere smile and a "Hello"? Tomorrow, greet two extra people. Try not to forget that charity is made up of such "random acts of kind­ness". We never know how we touch others by what we do. 
Sure, there will be days when the mouth is set in a 
permanent frown. One too many beers the previous night, a backache from the inter­hall football scrimmage, worries about an incomplete assignment may bring us down. That's when a roommate or a total stranger on the way to the dining hall may make all the difference by looking straight at you and smiling. Can a return smile not be in the works? 
As we go through life, beyond the confines of dear ol' Notre Dame, the practice of smiling (the 
art of smiling?) will become even more vital to our existence. Out in the "world", more and more people need the shot in the arm a smile gives. And if we are the one to give it, the ultimate rewards may be greater than we expect-not money, power or fame necessari­ly, but respect, love and an added appreciation of life. 
Isn't that worth taking a second to crack a smile? 
Julie Ferraro is the secretary of the Freimann Life Science Center . 

Julie Ferraro 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Undergraduates sacrificed as tuition costs increase 
Dear Editor: 
A !though forced to pay increasingly J-\.high tuition rates year after year, the student body of Notre Dame-and particularly the undergraduate student body-has not been made aware of the answers to two fundamental questions. First, where is the increased tuition rev­enue directed, and second, how does this benefit the undergraduate student body? It does, after all, seem justified that we should have answers to these questions, but time and time again, the apologetics of the administration frame such answers in vague terms which lead nowhere ("For the long-term prosperity of Notre Dame," etc. etc.). 
The University is, without a doubt, committed to becoming one of the pre­mier research universities in the United States. To that extent, it has required increasing research workloads for Her faculty, which, according to Colloquy 2000, has had the following preliminary results: "teachers available to do the (instruction have) become inadequate." 
(p. 6) Indeed, Professor Varma noted that Notre Dame has one of the highest student-faculty ratios among its peer institutions (Notre Dame Reports, Sept. 16, 1994). Incidentally, the student-fac­ulty ratio has dropped significantly in the science and business departments, where research and graduate school are all but requisites. 
F
. Moreov.er, a proposal in the Colloquy 2000 to increase the number of faculty members by 150 was designed not to reduce this student-faculty ratio, but was proposed in order to allow for more research time for current professors. With these ends in mind, if the student­faculty ratio is not reduced, then the increase in faculty has not failed; it has only failed if research has not increased and/or improved significantly. None of this, however, will come to pass soon. for an administrative representative has declared hiring 150 new faculty mem­bers a "pipe-dream" that will not be accomplished. inally, an increasing proportion of the teaehing load is being shifted to graduate students, who now teach 15% of all courses in the Arts and Letters Department (Notre Dame Reports, Sept. 16, 1994). This reflects a national trend, but one has to wonder not whether this is having an adverse effect on teaching (An inexperienced graduate student has just replaced a twenty-year experienced professor-can anyone guess who knew better how ·to conduct and develop a classroom?). but to what extent the 
teaching has been damaged within the 
Arts and Letters Department. 

This is only the preliminary aspect of 
the tuition question. The University has 
for a long time been committed to 
retaining a low number of undergradu­
ates; the number has crept uncomfort­
ably high for them to seventy-seven hun­
dred. As such, a constant number of stu­
dents can be expected to have a con­
stant number of facilities required for 
them. 

This said, any intended building pro­
ject should be examined, and one may 
be surprised to learn that, not only have 
four new buildings been constructed in 
the last three to five years, but an addi­
tional nine academic, and six non-acad­
emic, buildings or extensions are pro­
posed in the next ten years. These 
include: an expansion to the Snite 
Museum, a new Art Building on the 
"DeBartolo Quad," a science teaching 
laboratory facility, a laboratory for 
aquatic teaching and research, a gradu­
ate center (more on this later), a new 
sports center, and an administrative ser­
vices building, among others. This does 
not include the four new dorms on the 
old golf course, which are simply trans­
ferring students across campus: no new 
students will come from this, and the 
South Dining Hall will be utterly 
swamped. 

iven that we have fifteen new build­Ging projects proposed, we should recognize that all of these additions will . add significantly to the Plant Costs of the school. Each building will require heat­ing, plumbing, electricity, maintenance, air-conditioning, special equipment in certain Instances, and onwards, as well as start-up costs that will be (Judging by the cost of DeBartolo and the Business Building) well over fifty million dollars. Plant costs will increase several million 
dollars per year. Can anyone conjecture 
where this money will come from? 
Now, the University may point out that 
over the next five years. a drive will be 
led by William Sexton to raise seven 
hundred sixty seven million dollars for 
the University. Most of this will go to 
endowments. Two things should be 
noted: first, in 1993, 1992, 1991 and 
back, not one dime was withdrawn from 
the Endowment fund for current expen­
ditures (Notre Dame Financial 
Statements); second, tuition has gone 
from comprising thirty t,wo percent of 
the University's total revenue in 196 7, to 
forty-eight percent of the total revenue 
by 1993 (though it has been reported to 
be as high as fifty-seven percent-Notre Dame Reports, Sept. 16 1994, p. 90). 
If these trends continue, over the next five years, students· whose numbers, unlike buildings, are not increasing-will be forced to shell out approximately one-half of the total additional costs 
What. then, are the total costs? And who are these projects benefiting? l ATho. for instance, is benefiting from 
V V the newly built research center in Land O'Lakes, Wisconsin? How much did that cost, and how many students utilize it per year'! The university may claim that this facility has some great purpose, but if so, why do hardly any students know it exists? Benefits deserve to be praised, not hidden. 
To close this introduction to Notre Dame Finance (and I do stress introduc­tion;what is available to the public tells quite a tale... what is not available may prove to be monolithic), I would like to discuss the proposals of one Dean Nathan Hatch,Chairman of the Committee on Research, Scholarship, and infrastructure. This committee is designed solely for the graduate pro­grams. 
In a June of 1994 meeting of the administration (September, 1994 Notre Dame Reports), Dean Hatch laid out plans calling for seventy-five to one hun­dred million dollars worth of "one time" and permanent investments in the grad­uate schools alone over the next ten years, in addition to a request to increase graduate and undergraduate (mostly graduate) funding for the Art Program by twenty nine million dollars, in addition to thirty six million dollars for the library (A story in and of itselO, in addition to an extra three million dol­lar request for research funding by Professor Hatch, in addition to five mil­lion dollars for the Law Library over the next five years. Incorporated in these costs are at least seventy-five new non­faculty jobs over the next ten years (Remember the faculty "pipe dream?"). Dare we ask who will pay for all of this'? Dare we ask, since almost all of this is dedicated to research, what benefits we, as the undergraduate student body, will see (none?)? Need we wonder why so much office space is needed now at Notre Dame? 
Funding has since been given to Professor Hatch, and has been proceed­ing ahead of schedule. The administra­tion has expressed considerable plea­sure at this, as has Professor Hatch. As for the planned graduate center ... about one year prior to Dean Hatch's proposal. Professors Bonello and Delaney, Co-Chairmen of the Undergraduate Studies Committee, proposed an Undergraduate Center to foster relations between stu­dents and professors, and provide an intellectual atmosphere, etc., which was to cost approximately one hundred twenty five thousand dollars a year to operate. It was at this meeting, as he himself was drawing up long-term plans for the graduate school, that Professor Hatch issued the sole dissent, stating that this program would be unlikely to get funding because of "other academic priorities." (Notre Dame Reports, Feb. 4, 1994). 
Finally, we should note that Timothy O'Meara has estimated that 700-800 million additional dollars will be needed in order to fulfill the goals of Colloquy 2000 (Notre Dame Reports, Nov. 5; 1993). 
o much for Mr. Sexton's campaignSdrive. Incidentally, if students pay one-half of that bill, our academic fees will be between thirty and thirty-two thousand dollars by the year 2000. Further evidence of large tuition increases can be deduced from the fore­casted graduate school tuition rates by the year 2000, as given in Notre Dame Research, but this is an issue that can­not be adequately addressed at the moment. 
There are. though, some concerned about these developments, but they are .few and far between. Recorded in the Jan. 21, 1994 edition of the Notre Dame Reports, Father Miscamble expressed concern that the strong focus on gradu­ate education seemed unfair because the undergraduates have been (that is, already) hurt by the reduction in faculty teaching loads due to research. What is interesting is that there was no recorded opposition to this statement. 
Although there is much more to be said concerning our tuition, I would like to close for now with the following point. Nationally, Catholic primary schools are recognized as one of the best education­al systems available, yet their cost per­pupil is almost one-half that of publicly run schools. If these schools can offer the best primary education at the cheap­est rate, why cannot Notre Dame offer the best undergraduate program in America at the cheapest rate as well 
This is not a question, it is a challenge that we should clearly be striving towards, beyond Colloquy 2000. 
ROGER ZALNERAITIS,JR Junidt Morrissey Hall 

page 10 Thursday, October 12, 1995
:ACCENT 
• AlBUM REVIEW 
THE ETERNAL HUNDRED YEARS 

Grateful Dead 
Hundred Year Hall 
Arista Records 
****~ 
out of five 

BY DOMINIC DEVITO 
Accent Music Critic 
B 
efore going on to heap loads of praise upon the new two-disc set from the (former?) premier improvisational rock band in America, I would like to voice my complaints regarding this release. 
sweep the leg johnny 
Slmtlarttie!. 

Sweep the. Leg , ........,1/, •.].. ~:r~stwhi}(fND ,..,....M.,••·~~~ 
. • finally getting a fair experience of indleptBndleiitttLusi Indiana. 
"Similarities" is a h .. ,,,t,.th'"""'"h from the st e e:x;):te(:l(eq 
depth by ere g an ab·~~~~:t~~~~~~J>~
vocals. and e:x;pansive songs lends itself credibly to withoyt losing its hard edge ... ·....·· ... ... . •
rock,·:· ·. •.. · · ·· .. ,,<. · : .. ,.. 
Sweep the Leg walks a difficult line with the interesting addi* tion of a saxophone. However, to theii credit they h<we never given up their vision and remain a.baJ1d.th~{blel}ds l(ll,the 
· ments of·good song·writfng with•driving etnotional!~·"""'~"'"''·"·"'··· moments of being. Checkthem out . · ··· · L . . .... 
• Listen 'on Thursday nights ta the Top 20 show on WVFI 640 AM for this delish gem.· 
David McMahon. WVFimusic director. 

First, there is an entire CD worth of material left off of this set which any loyal Dead fan would have been happy to buy. 
In addition, the fact that a pair of unreleased Ron "Pigpen" McKernan tunes were cut off to make room for mainstream favorites "One More Saturday Night" and "Me and My Uncle" makes me wonder about the marketing strategy Grateful Dead Productions chose in hope of success in the mass audience. But enough of my Puritanical Dead fan ravings, let's move on to the music, shall we? 
A quick listen to the fifteen songs presented shows a theme of time and motion prevalent during the great Europe '72 tour. Hardened by seven years of constant touring and having shed the carefree recklessness of their psychedelic heyday in San Francisco, the band revels in a new batch of songs which showcases a jaded form of optimism. Songs such as "Jack Straw," "Comes a Time," and "Truckin'," seem to say that life on the road may sometimes be fun, but it's always going to be tough. 
As a result, the live show which is the basis for the Hundred Year Hall discs is a small window which allows the listener to glimpse the mindset of the band during an important transitional year. Recorded on April 26, 1972, at the Jahrundert Halle in Frankfurt, Germany, it is a wonderful addendum to the amazing music available on the 1973 release, Europe '72. 
As the old Dead fan adage goes, "Lesh is more," and this saying was never more true than on this set. Produced and mixed by angular bassist extraordinaire Phil Lesh himself, this collection highlights his unique classically-trained style of bass playing in a manner unrivaled by any previous Dead release. 
From the opening licks of a rollicking "Bertha" to the closing strains of "Sugar Magnolia," Lesh's omnipresent bass bombards the senses with thick gusto. He not only lays down the beats, but then shifts gears and plays around them, often in the upper regis­ter as a second lead guitarist. His classical and jazz backgrounds make him the prime catalyst for many of the Dead's exploratory improvisations on this disc. 
The obvious spacefest on this set can be found on the entire second disc, which encompasses sixty-nine minutes .of music with merely four songs and a drum solo. 
The two main culprits are "Truckin"' and "Cryptical Envelopment (which is really "The Other One" ... yet another example of hypnocracy run rampant at GD Productions)", and as the latter covers over thirty-six minutes, all I can say about it is it covers a wide range of musical styles, some jazzy and light, others straight out spacey, and still others just plain boring. 
Also worth mentioning is the always enjoyable "China Cat Sunflower"!'! Know You Rider" combina­tion, which highlights Bob Weir's dexterity at rhythm guitar, and Keith Godchaux's ability to provide sparkling piano fills. 
On disc one, the fireworks are to be found on Pigpen's blues raveup, "Lovelight," and it's interesting transition into "Goin' Down the Road Feelin' Bad," a crowd favorite in any language. 
A noteworthy addition to disc one is "Next Time You See Me," a bluesy pop cover by Pigpen which is avail­able for the first time ever on an official Dead CD. The same applies to "Comes a Time" on disc two, which was previously available on a Jerry Garcia solo effort, but is much more powerful here in a live setting with his traditional bandmates. 
It would have been easy to write about the syn­chronicity surrounding this release (which was in the works last February) and Garcia's death only two months before, but that's not a music critic's job. 
The music on this set is a historical treasure, a preservation of one of the most unique aspects of musi­cal culture: the Dead show. For any casual fan of the Dead's music, this will make a significant addition to the collection. 

Nebraska Dawn 
311 
311 
Capricorn Records 
out of five 
*** 
J
ust ten years ago rap music was edging its way into the mainstream. Breakdancing was at its peak, graffiti art had reached a whole new level, and the hip-hop culture was spreading rapidly beyond the confines of New York City. Now in 1995, rap and its various forms are launching careers of bands who were influenced by rap music, but do not necessarily play it. 
Those kings of the echo chamber, P.M. Dawn, have just released their third album, Jesus Wept, a collection of eccentric psychedelia through mellow grooves and dreamy lyrics. Gone are Prince Be's ambitions of becoming a rappin' machine, as he tones down his style and sings most of his lyrics. 
In the meantime, J.C.'s blend of obscure sam­pling and solid instrumentation creates the landscapes on which Be paints. Clever and unpredictable hooks surround practically every song as themes such as love, sex, and depres­sion are dealt with from a gospel point of view. 
Wearing his Catholic influences on his sleeve, Be drowns his vocals in spiritual whines, oohs, and ahhs, as if he is connected to the music. 
"I'll Be Waiting for You" 'COntains a sample of the song "Pacific" by 808 State and is perhaps the most fitting sound bit they have used since Spandau Ballet's "True" for "Set Adrift on Memory Bliss," their breakthrough hit from 1991. The snap-crackly groove from an old hip-hop beat rocks in the background as does the spacey keyboard effects. 
Along with utilizing much more expansive harmonies, Be's vocal range explodes on this LP, seeing him soar to heights previously unex­plored by P.M. Dawn. 
The best track on the disc is "Apathy...Superstar?!" which features an excel­lent drum rhythm as well as fabulous bass gui­tar by guest player Cameron Greider. "Am I unsure? Absolutely/You contaminate me so well/1 believe you now!fruly I care about you so deeply/God I wish I believed me," Be seems to float above the groove as he sings this song. 
Thankfully P.M. Dawn is ready to introduce us to sounds which prove that the term R & B does not have to stand for relentless and boring. 
On the other side of the rap spectrum, there exists a band from Omaha, Nebraska who have also just released their third album. 311 by 311 shows them finding their own unique style, yet not straying from it quite enough. 1985 was also about the time that rap music was introduced to the power riff, and now ten years later, 311 is working out what to do with it. 
Although their frat-boy rapping style does not vary much from song to song, it does introduce us to some impressive vocal harmonies. As soon as 311 decides to introduce a song structure other than intro-verse-chorus-verse-chorus­bridge-chorus-fade, they probably will have made an impressive album. 
-by Rob Adams 
P.M. Dawn 
Jesus Wept 
Island Records 
out of five 
***'* 


Thursday, October 12, 1995 page 11 ­
;ACCENT 
The Beautiful South 

Carry On Up the Charts 
Go! Discs Ltd. 
out **of five 

S
TEHEO REVIEW once gushed, "Only Britain could produce a band as likably eccentric as The Beautiful South." In regards to British bands, "likably eccentric" usually translates to "lyrically and vocally excellent, yet infuriatingly smug." Carry On Up the Charts has all of the above, and will remind many of you why you hate British pop in the first place. 
Carry On, The Beautiful South's greatest hits com­pilation, is like broccoli, an acquired taste. Repeated, forced doses create a certain tolerance to their oh­so-clever brand of pop. If you're irony-challenged, dtm't even· bother. Irony abounds for The Beautiful South but misses as often as it hits. 
The chronological order of Carry On charts The Beautiful South's development from string-drowned cheese to string-drowned cheese. In between are moments of grace, however. 
"My Book" is the first reasonable excuse for horns (five songs into the album). Vocalists Paul Heaton and Briana Corrigan serve up a platter of what you (presumably) paid for on "A Little Time," a he said/she said tale of doomed romance. 
The Beautiful South even approach greatness at times. "36D," a scathing attack on pin-up queens, features keyboards reminiscent of Simple Minds at their most uplifting."Bell Bottomed Tear," a song about infidelity, features Corrigan's most affecting lyric and vocal performance: "This is the child I brought up and this is the woman you laid/ This is the woman you laid." "Old Red Eyes is Back," a pro­temperance fable, has the quality of a Broadway song: you want to sing along every time you hear it. 
After that, the album is a wash. Jacqueline Abbott takes over for Corrigan on the final third of the album. Imagine Ma Kettle taking over for Miss America, well its the same idea here. Someone told Abbott the lie that "flat and loud" means "dark and atmospheric." It's no wonder Miaow, their 1994 re­lease, is available only on import. 
The disk ends with "Dream A Little Dream," and Abbott's massacre of what used to be a folk song makes Mama Cass sound like Barbara Streisand. 
Given The Beautiful South's sense of irony, one wonders if the album title wasn't ironic as well. Carry On Up the Charts is the third-most selling album in UK chart history. It's a decent pop collec­tion, but did these guys really outsell Lennon and McCartney on their home turf? Surely you jest. Next time you complain about the tripe being produced here in the US, check out The Beautiful South and stop feeling sorry for yourself. 
-by Kevin Dolan 


W~NDTop 

~Southpaw Grammar 
2. Garbage -qprbage 3.Red, Hot, a~h Bothered-Compilation 
4. Lisa Loeb and Nine Stories -Tails 
S.G. Love and Special Sauce-Coast to Coast Motel 
6. Urge Overkill-Exit the,pragon 
7. "Four Rooms" Soundtrack 
8. Bo bud greene-Whatever~, 
9. 
Ash -Trailer ·~ 

10. 
The Chinadoll-Tango 


11. 
Veroca Salt -American Thighs 

12. 
Gene • Olympian 


13. Green Day~ InsomiJ<tc,~,. \, 


Piano Man 
Patrick Moraz, former Moody 
Blues and Yes pianist, plays 
By CATHERINE DEELY Accem Copy Editor 
H
is talent has, quite literally, made waves across the globe. From the early days of nurturing his talent in Switzerland, to illumi­nating concerts and COs as a member of Yes and the Moody Blues, pianist Patrick Moraz has done great things with the gift of flying fingers. 
Now, thanks to the efforts of the Notre Dame Student Players, this pillar of the musical community is bringing his act to Notre Dame for a solo piano concert today, Thursday, October 12 at Washington IIall. 
The classically-trained Moraz's career has spanned several genres. After a stint playing the Montreux Jazz Festival he went on to keyboard for Yes for two years, contributing to what is widely viewed as some of the band's most brilliant material, including the groundbreaking album Helayer. 
Moraz then spent thirteen years as a member of 
tonight at Notre Dame 
the Moody Blues. After leaving the group, he has established a successful solo career, highlighted by his composition of the music for the 1996 Olympic Games. 
His 1994 solo piano debut, the album "Windows of Time," met with rave reviews; as "Keyboard" maga­zine remarked, "If Beethoven had gigged with Yes, he might have wound up sounding like this." 
Moraz's Coming Home America Tour II (CHAT), of which the ND performance is part, has evolved due to a unique means of fan feedback. This past spring, Moraz presented an open letter on the Internet, proposing the idea of playing a series of public and private performances. Needless to say, response to his suggestion was enthusiastic-there were over 130 requests in less than a month. 
Tickets for the concert are now available at the LaFortune Box Office. The show will begin at 8 p.m. Diehard Yes/Moody Blues fans, pianists, and those who simply appreciate music are all invited and encouraged to enjoy this night of musical magic. 
4~ Oasis -What's the _$tory Morning Glory 
s: Mariah Carey -Daydream 
6. 
Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pin 

7. 
Red Hot Chili Peppers,~One Hot Minute 

8. 
Rusted Root -When I Woke U_ 

9. 
Friends Soundtrack if . J 


10. Hooti~ & The Blowfish"VCracked Rearview 
11. Blues'fraveler-Four 
12. Freddy. Jones Band'!JY.ert~ 4v~n..ue 
Wake Up Calft. ;;~z'~~~;[{Jhi~~f. !~ · 
13. Urge Overkill -E4! th,eDrag~n .' ''''*'·Wi>!!''"·'· 
.. ·,,·., .;. 
14. Lisa Loeb & 'fhe Nim(Stpries·.-Tail§
,f.\\• .,.,•....,...;· 
15. Prince -Gold Exfri,nce, 
16. I -CoUective $oul
<f .., 
dijtside · 
,on~etPJill2 *Home 
. '.• ' .·_ . . ... ~ : . 
-Wrecki'n.g,Jlall 
Top 20 is compiledfrom'fratks 

. ­
.... 
-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
page 12 I ' The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 12: 1995 Thursday, October 12, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
**********PLEASE HELPI*"'********•  NEEDED: 2 U$C tix Stud. or GA  NEED USC GA'S  Krista-you are truly thr light of my  
•NEED 1 NAVY GAl•  Call273-9710  KATIE X1093  life!  
L....__N_o_T_IC_ES_  ____.I  L-1_F_O_R_RE_N_T_---1  •cALL COLLEEN AT X2191•  NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Paul  Need 2 USC tix. std or GA Call  REDEMPTION  
Stemper BoB  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND  NEED BCTKT  collect at (216) 974-7142.  Robx1581.  
& the4x4's  232-2595  WILL TRADE USC TKT  
live at Jazzman's  OR PAY$$$  USC STUD FOR SALE OR  $  
TONIGHT thurs. oct 12  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  CALL KELLI X4044  TRADE (NAVY)  $  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ 
Breakfast Inn has space available  CHRISTIAN 4X0506  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ 
for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­ I NEED BC & USC GA'S  I Need USC tix  born. Will provide love, nurturing  
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN  vate baths. Located in Middlebury,  CALL 288-28n  USC STUD TIC. 4 SALE  environ., educ., financial security.  
810W4TH MISH.  30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­ $100 OBO  -Bryan x1919  Hollywood Hills home has large  
MON THE JAZZ. FIRM 7:30-9:30  9487  Wanted: 5 tickets to the Navy  634-4532  back yard and loving dog. Call  
WED OPEN JAM 9 PM  game. Either GA's or Students. Am  UNTIL THURS. MIDNIGHT  $  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  One bedroom in house. Utilities and  willling to pay $$$$. Call Brian at  $  Confidential.  
2BLKS S. OF 100 CTR  laundry facilities, and kitchen privi­ x3061.  I need  
255-0458 NEED ID  leges. Close to campus. $250/mo.  1 Navy Ticket  Need USC GA's-Jeff x1828  DO YOU HAVE ANY USED EYE­ 
Female preferred. Call Paul 232­ Need one GA for Boston College.  Steve  GLASSES?  
ILOST & FOUND I  2794. ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Willing to pay $$$$$$. Call Julie at 284-5170.  x1103 Need USC GAs  Need BC tickets. Call Joe at X1610.  NDCIBD IS COLLECTING OLD EYEGLASSES TO SEND  
HOME FOR  Need ARMY tixll Karen x3723  Jeanne x4341  I need USC Tickets.  TO HONDURAS  
BIG REWARD for Info. leading to  ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  Call Joe at X1846.  ST. MARY'S DINING HALL  
the return of bike "taken• Oct. 2  TO CAMPUS.  Buy my SC ticket!  I  I  I  NEED USC GA'S!  I  I  SUN, OCT29,12-3  
behinp Cav. hall: sky blue, schwinn  CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620  Taking best offer.  WILL PAY$$$. CALL634-36761  For my dad's 50th birthday I need  
10 spd., 70's model, big sentimen­ PM  Mel x1286  at least one USC GA ticket. I am  
tal value -call 4-3504  & ASK FOR SANDY.  BADLY NEED USC GA'S. CALL  willing to pay big money. Call me  TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING  
I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's  DEANA AT 4267 ASAP. GOOD  Dan atx3543  BREAK'96  
LAST CHANCE LODGING FOR  Please call ALISA 271-8346  OFFERS.  Form a group of 15 and travel  
HOME GAMES:  DESPERATELY NEED TWO  FREE + earn $$$  
LOST-gold bracelet of extremely  Three-bed Bed and Breakfast 5  Need2 GAs4  I NEED USC tixll HAVE BC stud  NAVY TIX FOR MOM AND DAD!  CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE,  
sentimental value. Call Ricky at 4­ min. from campus. Gingerbread  USC Call x2875  tix to trade. I will be here over break  Jessica-x0705  BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, CARNIVAL  
115211 found. BIG REWARD  cottage charm. Reasonable rates.  to discuss a swap!  CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ 
Two night minimum. 232-2672  Amyx4836  Need 4 USC GAs  ed. (800)574-75n ext. 302  
NEED NAVY TIXI  Chad X3384  
Black Bike Lock Key on leather  Bed & Breakfast  AMY 616-473-2636  NEED USC stud tix  
cord to fit around neck. Please call  Room with private bath.  NEEDBCGA's  Desparetely seeking USC tix.  
273-6508 (Sara), or return to  Accomodates two. For ND and  Desperately need 4 Navy GA'slll  273-8709  Have a BC ticket to offer.  Attention GAY,LESBIAN, and BI­ 
Lafortune Info desk.  SMC parents and friends. 2n­ If I don't get them, my family won't  Please call Kevin at x2104  SEXUAL Students/Faculty/Staff of  
L......-_~_:AN_T_E_D_----JII6323.  FOR SALE  pay for the operation to save my life. Call Mark at x1590. Need 2 USC tix- Need 2 Navy GA's it is crucial I get them! call ASAP @ 634-2604  Desperately seeking 3NAVYGAs. Will pay BIG BUCKS.  ND and SMC ­Join the student support group that has ALWAYS sought to include you In the com­munity and help you to deal with  
FOR GOD"S SAKE HELP MEl  I  .  Have 2 BC or 2 Navy GAs to trade  Trade 2 BC GA's for 2 USC GA's?  Call Ryan x0566.  issues of coming out!  
really really need a ride to Boston  1994 Suzuki Swift GA, 3 DR,  Also have $$$$  Call Tom@ 259-7641  
over fall break. I'll split  Stick,Biue, 18,000 Miles, $ 6,700  Call Sara x4096  NEED 4 USC STD TIX CALL x2855  Our first meeting of this month will  
gas/tolls,etc., ride on the roofrack,  Call after 3:30, 2n-8115  Need 2 USC Ga's-Call Phil  be TONIGHT at 7:30 p.m. on the  
whatever. Please. Call Tom x1173  NEED NO-USC GA TIX. CALL JOE  @x3591  USC student ticket for sale to  SMC CAMPUS. Call the 0-Line at  
Chest of drawers.Appr. 60"x36"x  @ 287-4561 BEFORE 10 PM.  best offer by Friday 3 PM. Call  287-6665 for location.  
15".Lots of drawers.$20.277-2560.  Need 3 B.C. and  Brian at x-3549 and leave best  
Ride ­ Boston to South Bend for  ND ALUMNI NEEDS BC GA'SI  3 NavyGA's  offer.  
desperate Law Student, 10/21 or  !@#$#"%."&%#@ @#$$%  CALL JOE AT 708-470-6356.  Jon -287-0578  
10/22. Call Jay at 634-4219.  If you like BASS, you'll like this  FOR SALE N.D. G A s  RIP RIP RIP RIP RIP RIP  
150 watt 15"  Need 3 USC GA's and 1 BC Stud.  Need USC tix. Call Keith 3482  call271-9412  You were good to us  I just wish  
SUBWOOFER  Call Tom at x1899.  s  we could have known you better  
Call4-1668  I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890  Johnny Appleseed, rest in peace  
NEED EXTRA MONEY?  #@$%&A>(()"&"%#$#$  Please help me. My plane leaves  
HAVE A GOOD PHONE VOICE &  I need tickets to USC, BC, and  on Friday and I need army tickets.  
6-8 HRS/WK TO MAKE CALLS ABOUT MY PRODUCT? THEN CALL JOHN DAVENPORT  Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days  Navy. Please call Bryan. 272-4249  Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. Call Anne x4896.  Krista. 634-0933. need a little help here.  It all comes down to the bird. Tommy the bird.  
289-1993, ALLSTATE. FLEX HAS. START AT $12/HR.  $27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 121151  need student tix for USC, 4-3504  $$ PLEASE HELP $$ '94 ND ALUM NEEDS BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX  I need 2 USC tix! Sean x-1398  Treacy-Don't mess w/ Texas ... or any1hing else. for that matter.  
OFFICE NEAR CAMPUS  Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­ Need NAVY GA's Chris x4010  CALL 516-326-2659  FRESHMAN want$$$?  
-.  Wanted! Individuals, Student Organizations to Promote SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO­GRAMS http://www.icpt.com 1-800-327-6013 DRIVING 1-80 after 4pm Fri 13 ?? NEED ride to exit 3, 4 or 5 Pitt area x4309 ANYONE GOING TO ALBANY, NY? I WOULD LIKE TO SEND A SMALL PACKET.CALL NOMAN.2n-4269 Seeking in home child care for an adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk  6386 Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/1511-800-678-6386 Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel 1-800-678-6386 LAZ-BOY DOUBLE RECLINING LOVESEAT & matching RECLIN­ER, contemporary style and color, excellent condition, 6 yrs. old, paid $1500 sell for $350 O.B.O. Call 273.0334. Will deliver to doorstep.  I HAVE 2 50YRD LN BC TIX GA and 4 GA NAVY TIX. I NEED 4 USC TIX STD/GA. call Davex21 00 Not coming back from break? I need 4 USC STUD TIX Call Frank -3389 Need 1-2 USC GA's x1426 I need a ticket to PHISH, Kalamazoo, 10-27, call2074 need student B.C. ticket. X2074 I HAVE USC STUD TIX 4 SALE 1-6696 I NEED BC TICKETS-STUDENT OR GAll II PLEASE call Megan at x4268 2 Navy GA's for 2 BC GA's.  I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR USC STUDENT TICKETS. If you have USC tix, call Tom atx3893 HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! I NEED USC AND BC TIX as many as possible, students or GAs please call NORM @ 232-2955 Thanks for your Support! ND ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 28. CALL COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­ Sell your USC TIX to me-need 4. call 273-2284 Need Tickets For USC Will Pay$ Call Dave 272-8805 I need USC GA'S: Please call Kelly 4-5113 PERSONAL 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 If you see BRIDGETTE FARRELL at the USC game, don't forget to wish her a happy 21 stl DeReamer- So you see, since we're a small operation, we don't fall into the ... uh ... jurisdiction of the Empire. So you're part of the mining guild then? No, not actually. Our operation is small enough not to be noticed...which is advantageous for everybody since our customers are anxious to avoid attracting attention to themselves. Aren't you afraid the Empire's going to find out about this little operation and shut you down? That's always been a danger loom­ing like a shadow over every1hing we've built here. But things have developed that will insure security. I've just made a deal that will keep the Empire out of here forever. We would be honored if you would join us. I had no choice. They arrived right before you did. I'm sorry.  
M-Th. 631-6561.  TICKETS  273-9176.  NYMIKE@AOL.COM  Bummer that your birthday is over break. We'll have to celebrate  HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANDREA!  
HELP WANTED  2 USC STUD TIX, best offer.  HELP! HELP I HELP! Alumnus des­perately needs 5 USC tix. Please  when we get back. Happy 22ndl  LOVE 4TH FLOOR FARLEY  
1 D-30 hrs./flex. sched.  TICKET-MART, INC.  John 273-9249  call215-988-1788 day, or 215-836­ Love, your old roommie  : )  
All majors/schol. avail. $10.25/282-2357  WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  Need USC tickets (4)  9150 home.  LONDON PROGRAM  I am so tired of you Krista  
HOME/AWAY ND GAMES.  call #4814-Erica  APPLICATIONS  
HELP WANTED addressing envelopes. Work at your residence in your spare time. $250+/week  BUY.SELL •TRADE (219) 232-0058-24 HAS.  • Have 2 BC GAs to TRADE for 2 USC GAs. Colin x-1389  Selling your BC ticket?? Call Kelly @ 277-9695  are due 5:00PM Friday, Oct. 13  mk thanks for every1hing. you are my rock. you are my island.  
possible! (310)804-5587 24 hrs. LosAngeles!  I NEED 4 TIX FOR BC Call David@ 272-7327. Thanks.  Dad & Co. Coming for USC ... Need tickets-PLEASE HELPII  Needed: 2 USC student tlx. Call Jason at x-1 079.  HEY YOU! Buy my USC ticket before O.J. does. Call1-4872.  lnnsbruckers. (1993-1994) Treffen wir am 24 Oktober? Auf KN ani  
Need someone to drive a '91 Camry 6 cyl. to LosAngeles.  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306  GAs or Student. Rob2734674  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA)  ....................... ---------.. -.. -----.... ­ We are so tired of you Krista  
Arrive there any1ime before Nov.  call dan at 273-6183 if you can help  ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE  
3rd. (219) 233-3711.  NEED TICKETS  WILL TRADE TWO ND BC FIELD  out. thanx.  excursion to  
BABYSITTER NEEDED IN OUR HOME FOR SMALL CHILD A C.OUPLE OF' ~FTEf'lNOONS A WEEK. WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 232-2595 ARIST NEEDED  2 USC and 2 NAVY G.A.'S Call Sean x2153 Wanted: 4 tickets together -any home game Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC Call 1-800-922-BEAR day 1-502-354-8826 collect in evening  TICKETS FOR TWO USC GA'S. CALL CRAIG@ 233-1161 OR 234-7378. Need BC & Navy tix. Stud/GA's. 282-1638. FOR SALE (2) USC MARRIED STD TIX  TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX I NEED USC TIX KEVIN @ 234-2952 HELP! NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR VISITING PARENTS. CALL 4­0714.  DAN 0' DAY'S BALLROOM • meet tonight at 7:15 at the Rock • open dance from 8 to 1 0 PM • free for all paid members ..................... . -----------.. -.. ------­Josie, Meet me at Cactus Jack's Thursday for $1.00 night.  They say you gotta stay hungry. Hey baby, I'm just about starving tonight. I'm dying for some action. I'm sick of sitting 'round here trying to write this book. I need a love reaction .... C'mon babe, give me just one look.  
Interested in painting a portrait based from a picture? I need  NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A. Please call Anne 634-3445.  JEREMY 4-3666 I NEED USC STUD'S AND GA'S  NEED LOTS OF USC TIX. WILL PAY$$. PLEASE CALL SARAH-X2865  Love, Jack Oranges, Oranges, Oranges  thanks for mending my toe belle! (&thanks for the scissors suz)  
someone immediately! It's for a wedding gift. Call Laura at 273-2768 Desperately need USC tix, GA's or student. Helpll call Kathleen 273-2284  NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE X4905 NEEDED: 4 USC and 2 Navy GA tickets. Call at 273-6374  PAUL X5113 Need two Navy Tickets Call Lara at x4416 I NEED USC student tix call Doug x1835  Help, I need 2 married st. or st. tix for the BC game. $$ Call Matt X-1307 Have 1 USC tix for sale! Please call 4-3306, ask for Mark  Not lemons. NOT LEMONS. Thank you St.Jude for prayers answered. I can't wait till our toilet floods again ...  Kidde, OK so I am a bit slow finding the m-man, I've always had that prob­lem. Among others, but we won't go into those now. And how about those Metsl?l -An llliios Farmer  



Sanders' contract 
Bucs sneak into first place 
• By FRED GOODALL "I don't have an answer for opponents have scored just six Associated Press you on the attendance," said touchdowns -one in the
receives appro 
coach Sam Wyche, who has fourth quarter. TAMPA, Fla. been critical of the way the The offense, which added re­
As.ociated PreiS Andre Rison and Eric Allen The Tampa Bay Buccaneers team has been portrayed dur­ceiver Alvin Harper during the
The Cowboys scheduled are going about business as ing the winning streak. · offseason in hopes of becoming 
NEW YORK news conference usual this week, determined The Bucs have played only more explosive, is barely hold­
The NFL approved Deion Thursday to discuss the nullt~·,,,lli'l not to make much of their new two teams with winning ing up its end in the team's suc­
Sanders' contract with the ter. 
surroundings -first place in records, Cleveland and Chicago, cess.
Dallas Cowboys on This latest develo the NFC Central. and lost to both. Quarterback Trent Dilfer has
Wednesday, but said the con· could present problems They've beaten Washington, struggled and watched the end
tract circumvents the salary the Cowboys. 
It's been 16 years since the Carolina and Cincinnati the of the last two victories from
cap and must be restruc­
Bucs have been alone in first past three weeks, but haven't the bench. 
tured. If t)le readjustment puts this late in a season -though a looked good doing it. While backup Casey Weldon
them over the 

lot of people aren't convinced Wyche said a combination of hasn't been dazzling, he hasThe conditional approval might have to cut a player. to the NFL's losingest franchise of things may have affected at­delivered a handful of big plays will allow the star corner· make room for Sandel'S. 
the past decade is as good as its tendance last week, including and not made any costly mis­back to play with the Starting defensiv£l tackle 4·2 record. the threat of rain and the lack takes.
Cowboys as soon as be is Russell Maryland was a cari:i The offense ranks 28th of a rivalry with the Bengals, an Wyche insists a quarterbackhealthy. didate to be released earlier among 30 teams and has AFC opponent Tampa Bay controversy is not in the mak­Sanders is recovering from because of his $1.9 million scored just five touchdowns rarely plays. ing, but the offense clearly will
anklo surgery and is not salary. 
during its three-game winning "We're winning, but we're have to make strides soon if the expected to play until Oct. 29 streak. The starting quarter­quietly winning right now, and Bucs are going to stay atop thein Atlanta at the earliest. Harold Henderson, the back hasn't finished three of we certainly aren't winning division.
In the meantime, his $35 NFL's director of labor rela.· 
the past four games and has with the big headlines," the "Every week we go in saying,million, seven-year deal will tions, said Sanders' contract thrown for just three TDs in six coach said. 'The D has been great; now it'shave to be redrawn to fit was designed to evade the weeks. our turn,"' said center Tonyunder the salary cap of $37.1 cap by paying him a base Even the fans, hungry for a "Frankly, when we win we're Mayberry. "And every week wemillion per team. salary at the league min~ winner after enduring a league­actually getting put down a lit­don't do it."
imum of $178,000 for the record 12 consecutive seasons tle bit. We've got a little more Wyche feels too much hasThe decision was immedi­first three years while setting with at least 10 losses, aren't winning to do before we actual· been made of how poorly theately opposed by the NFL his average salary at $5.5 

sure what to make of the ly get more accolades for the offense has performed. He says·Players Association. which million. · · team's best start since 1990. effort. We're getting put down the unit is progressing and thatsaid the league has "no basis Attendance has dropped dra­for the things that didn't hap­it's only a matter of time beforefor challenging the contract ''Sanders' contract is struc~ matically since a sellout crowd pen right instead of analyzing Dilfer shows why he was thein any way." tured to avoid counting under ···••· of 71,507 watched the team the (good) things that did hap­sixth pick in the 1994 draft. 
"Our agreement specially the salary cap a very · · ..•··. ·• play its worst game of the sea­pen." In the meantime, the coachstates tha.t anything permit· portion of the · ' son (a 25-6 loss to Chicago) in An improved defense that's thinks the team should beted by the collective bargain· which Deion is to rfu~AhrA the home opener. forced 10 turnovers in the last judged by its overall effort noting agreement cannot be his services during two games is the biggest reason the shortcoming of one compo­considered circumvention,'' years of his c Only 49,234 showed for a the Bucs are in first and have a nent.
said Richard Berthelsen, the Hender.son said. 
game against Washington on shot at remaining in contentionunion's general counsel. "In this respect,. 
Sept. 24 and just 41,7 32 for last for the division title. "We were in three tough',contract stands week's 19-16 victory over Tampa Bay and Oakland lead pressure, can't-make-a-mis­"The league has already every other in the Cincinnati that gave Tampa Bay the NFL with 17 takeaways, take-at-the-end situations, andapproved contracts for other our view, the contract a one-half game lead in the di­while the Bucs are 12th in total we won all three," he said, re­
players who have used the rently structured in 
vision over Chicago, Green Bay defense, allowing 324.5 yards flecting on the past threesame techniques, including salary cap circumvention .. 
and Minnesota. per game. Through six games, weeks. 
invites all gay, lesbian, and bisexual students to an open listening session on Wednesday evening, October 25, 1995, from 7:00 p.m. to 8:30p.m. in room 300 of the University Counseling Center. A reception will follow. ­
Please come to share your concerns. We need tol hear from you. We want to provide a safe environment in which honest dialogue can occur. Ifyou have any questions, please contact: 
Ann Firth Chair@ 631-5550. 
Sister Sue Bruno, O.S.E Rev. David B. Burrell, C S. C. Rev. Terence Linton, C. S. C. Mr. Dennis McCarthy 
... 
Ms. Sharon Miller Mr. jonathan Patrick Prof Maura Ryan Mr. Anthony Silva Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich Dr. Patrick Utz 
Rev. Richard V. Ularner, C. S. C. 
~-­
,_ 
t 
-


Ram.s, Falcons race to surprising 4-1 records 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Even the participants are sur­prised there's anything at stake when the St. Louis Rams and Atlanta Falcons play Thursday night. 
"You would have been hard­pressed to find anybody: that would have predicted that 'when this game was scheduled that the Falcons and Rams would be playing for first place," Rams coach Rich Brooks said. "The combination probably would have gotten you real long odds in Las Vegas." 
The Rams were 4-12 last year, the Falcons 7-9. 
But they each enter the game at 4-1, tied with San Francisco atop the NFC West. Both teams are coming off their bye week in what could be the final NFL game played at Busch Stadium. 
The Rams expect to learn this week whether the $260 million Trans World Dome will be ready for their next game, Oct. 22 against the 49ers. 
But that matchup will have to 

wait. 
"It's our only chance to be exposed like this this year," Brooks said. "l would hope that we play well and show the '95 Rams are definitely different." 
"I think we're a lot like the Rams," Falcons coach June Jones said. "I think they're playing a little better, probably, but at the same time our records are the same." 
The Falcons have won three straight for only the 11th time in the franchise's 30-year his­tory and have matched their best start, back in 1986. The only kicker is the wins have come against teams with a combined 2-19 record. 
Atlanta nearly stumbled in its 

opener, beating expansion 
Carolina 23-20 in overtime, and 
then lost 41-10 at San 
Francisco. Since then there 
have been victories over New 
Orleans in OT, the Jets and 
New England. 
"I think nobody gave us a chance early on," quarterback Jeff George said. "A lot of peo­ple have said we haven't played anybody with a winning record, but the bottom line is you've got to go out and win." 
George has been sharp directing the run-and-shoot offense, completing 63.2 per­cent of his passes. 
He's the second-ranked pass­er in the NFC and has thrown a touchdown pass in 13 of his last 14 games. 
Eric Metcalf leads the NFL with 42 catches, and the other wideouts, Terance Mathis, Bert Emanuel and J.J. Birden, have 27, 25 and 17 receptions. Craig Heyward is having one of his best years with 390 yards and a 4.4-yard average. 

The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 12, 1995 

Buckeyes eye big prize 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Maybe it's the province of fans who have come to expect the worst in the 27 years since Ohio State last won a national championship. 
Despite a 5-0 record, four vic­tories over nationally ranked teams and a No. 4 ranking, there are still concerns about the Buckeyes' defense heading into Saturday's game at No. 21 Wisconsin. 
Those concerns are twofold: for the most part opponents have been able to run on Ohio State, and a defense that had 16 sacks at this point last year has five so far. 
"My response is we're unde­feated and ranked fourth in the country," defensive end Mike Vrabel said. 
"It does not matter to anyone on our defense if we give up a thousand yards, two thousand yards -it does not matter. I can speak for the whole defense and the whole team: the first goal we have is to 
win." 
But Vrabel admits the 
defense is on the field "quite a bit" and added, ''I'd be the first to tell you the sacks aren't there." 
Notre Dame rushed for 204 yards two weeks ago in a 45-26 loss at Ohio Stadium. Penn State picked up 209 yards last week in a 28-25 Buckeye vic­tory. 
Ohio State is seventh in the Big Ten in rushing yards per­mitted per game (154.2), eighth in scoring defense (18.2 points a game) and eighth in total defense (359 yards a game). Those shortcomings have been covered by an offense that is averaging 39 points and 510 yards a game. 
"We've got to be more physi­cal defensively," head coach John Cooper said. 
"We've got to stone the run­ning game and at the same time be sound in the sec­ondary." 
Defensive coordinator Bill Young said, "The biggest thing that concerns me defensively is the number of points we've been giving up because that's the No. 1 thing we try to elimi­nate. We're not near where we want to be right now. The sec­ond thing is the length of pos­session time of the offense. It's hard on us." 
Penn State had the ball for 
30:01 to Ohio State's 29:59, but it was how the Nittany Lions took time off the clock that mattered to Young. A 15-play, 86-yard drive ate up 7:32 of the third quarter and a 10-play, 84-yard drive melted another 
3:44 off the clock as they came back from a 21-10 deficit to take a 25-21 lead. 
"We've got them out of the game at halftime," Young said. "You walk down on the sideline the second half, their crowd was totally out of the ballgame. Defensively, we let 'em back in. We let 'em take two drives the whole length of the field -it doesn't even look like we were on the field -and get 'em right back in the game." 
It took Eddie George's 6-yard run with 1:42 left to get the Buckeyes out of Happy Valley happy. 
Young said there have been individual breakdowns at dif­ferent spots each week but both he and Cooper said they wouldn't be corrected by per­sonnel changes. 

CANDAX McNAIR PROGRAM 
Organizational  Meeting  with  
DR. MARIO BORELLI  DR. ROLAND SMITH  
DIRECTOR, CANDAX  EXECUTIVE ASSISTANT  

TO THE PRESIDENT 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1995 
7:00 P.M. ENGINEERING AUDITORIUM (CUSHING) 
FOR STUDENTS INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES 
& 

FROM UNDERREPRESENTED GROUPS 
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE INVITED REFRESHMENTS AFTER THE MEETING AT 8:00 P.M. 
THURSDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 
STOMPER BoB 
& 
THE 4X4's 
• 
With Lady Melo-"D", Spinning your favorite Tootsie Rool, Bootie Call &: Perculator Hip-Hop music. 

• 
Both Dance Floors Open Until Close. 


$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
*Every one under 21 must state they are prior to entry. ,I 
Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11:00 pm 
Two for $5.00 After Midnight With this Ad 
EARN UICK CASH! 
EARN$$$ 
ND 
Catering Needs Help for the Quarterback Lunch. Friday, October 20 9:00AM-2:30PM 
Earn SS.9S per hour 
Plus a $10.00 bonus 
Please Call 
631-5449 

Thursday, October 12, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-

• BASEBALL 
.,,,j;:'\IN\.~:1: 
ports'win season ticket distribution con­dance class tinues Wednesday, Oct. 11. and Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 12, at

Lopez lifts Braves to 2-0 lead 
By JOE KAY 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

Add Javy Lopez to the Atlanta Braves' roll call of last-inning heroes. 
Lopez hit a three-run homer in the 1Oth inning, capping yet another dramatic rally as the Braves beat the Cincinnati Reds 6-2 Wednesday night and took a 2-0 lead in the NL playoffs. 
Atlanta's second consecutive extra-inning win put the Reds in a near-impossible situation. No team has won the NL pen­nant after. losing the first two games of the championship series at home. 
"It's a very uncomfortable feeling," Reds manager Davey Johnson said. "We've got to score more runs. Our offense just hasn't produced that many." 
Three-time Cy Young Award winner Greg Maddux will start Game 3 at Atlanta on Friday night, opposed by David Wells. 
The RBds pulled out every of­fensive trick they could think up against starter John Smoltz, who has beaten them three times this season. They finally got him out of the game follow­ing the seventh with the score tied at 2. 
But the NL's top extra-inning club failed for the second con­secutive night. Mark Portugal. relegated to the bullpen for the playoffs, started the 1Oth by giving up a single to Mark L·emke, a walk to Fred McGriff and a single to David Justice, loading the bases. 
Portugal then bounced a breaking ball for a wild pitch with Ryan Klesko at bat to let in the go-ahead run, and Lopez followed Klesko with a first­pitch homer high off the left­field foul screen, 
The Braves, who had the league's worst extra-inning record in the regular season at 3-9, jumped and hugged in the dugout while Lopez rounded the bases. 
Mark Wohlers pitched the ninth to close out the Braves' fourth come-from-behind win in the playoffs. 
It was a particularly stunning loss for Cincinnati, which was 10-3 in extra innings, best in the league. The Reds blew scor­ing chances in the seventh, eighth and ninth, and ulti­mately wasted perhaps their most impressive rally of the season. 
The Reds were nat and flail­ing against Smoltz when they turned the game around with the resourcefulness that's be­come their trademark. Smoltz had a 2-0 lead and was work­ing on a streak of 12 consecu­tive batters retired, leaving the less-than-capacity crowd of 43,257 restless. 
So what do the Reds do? They stop swinging and start bunting, 
Benito Santiago, with 19 strikeouts in 45 career at-bats against Smoltz, caught third baseman Chipper Jones playing back and bunted for a single. Bret Boone, just 1-for-12 career against Smoltz with seven strikeouts, followed with another bunt single that seemed to unsettle the pitcher, who fielded and threw wildly for an error that Santiago take third. 

Santiago was thrown out try­ing to score on Jeff Branson's grounder, but pinch-hitter Lenny Harris grounded a full­count pitch up the middle to drive in Boone and send Bran­son to third. 
Harris and Branson then pulled off a double steal. Harris took off for second and catcher Javy Lopez bounced his ill-ad­vised throw to shortstop Rafael Belliard, allowing Branson an easy steal of home -the first in an NL championship series. 
The crude but cunning rally saved John Smiley from an­other playoff loss. Smiley was trying to make up for the low point of his career: two drub­bings by Atlanta in the 1991 NL playoffs, when he was pitching for Pittsburgh. 
Smiley fell behind quickly, giving up a first-pitch single to Marquis Grissom that opened the game. 
Grissom advanced on Mark Lemke's hit-and-run groundout and came around on Chipper Jones' single to right. 
McGriff led off the fourth with a double that deflected off the heel of center fielder Thomas Howard's glove on the warning track. 
One out later, Mike Dev­ereaux -who had the game­winning single in the 11th in­ning Tuesday night -doubled over the head of Ron Gant in left for a 2-0 lead. 
Until the bunt-and-run come­back, the Reds had managed just a pair of first-inning singles off Smoltz, who had beaten them three times already this season. 
6i30-7:45. The fee ' class is ~25, and regis­starts today. 
Women's Lacrosse -There will be no practice today, October 11th. Please call ''Allison at 239-7924 if you can help with the USC concession stand. Practice will resume after break on Monday, 
S~:~ent Basketball Tickets ­The men's basketball student Gate 10 of the Joyce Center. The schedule is as follows ­Today: Sophomores (8:00 a.m.-12:30 p.m.), Freshmen (12:30 p.m.-5:00p.m.). 
Men's Basketball Tryouts'­The men's basketball team will hold tryouts for non· scholarship players on October 24th and October 26th at 7:30a.m. The tryouts are scheduled for the Joyce Center Arena. 

Harbaugh finds niche 
By HANK LOWENKRON 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS Jim Harbaugh couldn't ask for much more today. 
His dog is alive. He's back with his old girlfriend. And he's a starting quarterback in the NFL after beginning his ninth season as a back-up, now for the Indianapolis Colts. 
Harbaugh heads into Sun­day's game against defending Super Bowl champion San Francisco as the highest-rated starting quarterback in the NFL -a complete turnaround from the time he was told his days with the Chicago Bears were over following the 1993 season. 
"That was a bad time.... Me and my girlfriend broke up, my dog just about died. I thought I was living a country music song," Harbaugh said Wednesday. "Since then I've got a new job in Indianapolis, me and my girlfriend rekin­dled, and now we're engaged. I'm having fun, happy to be playing football." 
Harbaugh, who set a fran­chise season record by com­pleting 61.9 percent of his passes for Indianapolis last year, is also delighted to report that his dog recovered from its stomach problem. 
"She was just a puppy. like 10 weeks old. She was in the hospital for 10 days and got off her death bed and now she's as healthy as can be," Harbaugh said. 
The same can be said for Harbaugh, who has a league~ best 107.2 quarterback rating and was selected as the Miller Lite NFL Player of the Week for the second time after his hero­ics in Sunday's 27-24 overtime victory over Miami. 
Yours and yours alone. 

The awesome computer with all the bells and whistles. 
ASAP. 
We mean like yesterday. 


Macintosh Performa• 6214CD 
8MB RAM/1000MB hard drive, Power PC 603 fJ1TJ=', quiJd!{Jetd CD-ROM drive, IS' color monitor, keyboard, mouse and all the softwareyoure likely to ne«i. 

RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hard}Qur life is for a Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, in fact, that the minute and start thinking about how easy it will be with aMacintosh. The com-Ap 1 J. prices on Macintash personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. puter that gives you the power any student can use. The power to be}Qur best~ p1e­




Notre .Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB · 631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 
Product~ product availllblllly and sales taxes may vary. Offer grplres October IJ, 1995. @1995 Apple Computer, Inc. AU rlgbis reserved Apple, /be Ajp/e lo[iO, Maclntvsb, Macinto.rb Performa, Power!Jooj, LaserWrller Select, Color S/){e'Mer and '7116 power to hiyour blsl" "" rfBislmd lumari! ifAjp/1 Computer, Inc. Power Macinto.rb and Mac ars lrtldemaris ifApple Computer; Inc. CordSbop Plus Is a registered trademark ofMlndscape. All Apple"products are designed to be acmslbk to indivldu4Ls wllb disability. 7b /sam ,_(US. only), azii1J00.7715-W orTDD 800-/W-6W. 
Thursday, October 12, 1995

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
DIVISION SERIES LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP (best-of-5) SERIES (best-of-7) 
Oct. 3-8 Oct. 10-18 
-• BASEBAll 
Hershiser works magic to tie series 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE Orel Hershiser would have none of it. 
Not the Kingdome noise, not the fireworks set off after Ken Griffey Jr.'s home run, not the momentum the Seattle Mariners were starting to build. None of it was going to stop him from winning a game the Cleveland Indians abso­lutely had to have. 
Hershiser maintained his perfect career record in the postseason, and Manny Ramirez homered twice and went 4-for-4, leading the Indi­ans past Seattle 5-2 Wednesday night and tying the AL playoffs at 1-all. 
Showing the form that once made him baseball's best pitch­er, the 37-year-old Hershiser allowed four hits in eight innings and improved to 6-0 in playoff and World Series com­petition. His only blemish came in the sixth inning when Griffey tied a postseason record with his sixth home run. 
While Ramirez showed what 

made him an All-Star at age 
23, Carlos Baerga came 
through with the big hit 
Cleveland missed in the opener. 
His two-out, two-run single 
with the bases loaded broke a 
scoreless tie in the fifth and got 
everyone off the Indians' 
bench, and team seemed to 
relax after that. 
The besl-of-7 series goes 

back to Jacobs Field for Game 
3 Friday night. Mariners ace 
Randy Johnson, finally able to 
get some time off this week, 
starts on four days' rest. 
opposed by Charles Nagy. 
Seattle is 28-3 this season in 

games Johnson starts. The 
Mariners also won the last time 
he pitched -in relief in Game 
5 of the first-round playoffs 
against New York. 
The Indians did not want to 
go home down 0-2, and thanks 
to Hershiser, they did not. Not 
even a crowd of 58,144, the 
second-largest ever to see 
baseball at the Kingdome, 
could shake ol' Orel. 
Hershiser, who blanked 
Boston for 7 1-3 innings in the first round of the playoffs, struck out seven and his lone walk was intentional. Jose Mesa pitched the ninth, allow­ing Jay Buhner's second home run of the postseason. 
Standing still on the mound, Hershiser merely focused in on catcher Sandy Alomar Jr., who would pat his chest protector as if to say, "Just you and me.'' 
Even after giving up a home run, Hershiser already had a new ball back in his mitt and was at the rubber. almost ready to pitch, by the time Grif­fey touched home plate. 
None of Hershiser's team­mates had to come console, either, because they knew he'd been around big games before. 
Griffey became the first AL player to homer six times in the postseason. 
Lenny Dykstra did it for Philadelphia in 1993 and Bob Robertson did it for Pittsburgh in 1971. 
Hershiser was the MVP of the 
1988 World Series, pitching Los 
Angeles to the championship. 
He went 3-0 in the postseason 
that year, as did another pitch­
er in the Dodgers' rotation that 
October. Tim Belcher. 
Belcher took the loss for the 
Mariners. Hit hard in two relief 
appearances in the opening 
round of the playoffs -he took 
out his frustration by knocking 
a television camera out of its 
operator's hands -he lasted 5 
2-3 innings. 
Belcher left after Ramirez 
homered with two outs in the 
sixth, Paul Sorrento singled 
and Sandy Alomar tripled for a 
4-1 lead. Ramirez, who began 
the game 1-for-16 in the post­
season, homered leading off 
the eighth against Bobby Ayala. 
For the first few innings, it 
seemed like fate may've been 
on the Mariners' side. 
Griffey made a sliding catch 
to rob Eddie Murray of extra 
bases and second baseman 
Joey Cora made a diving catch 
on Kenny Lofton's liner. 
In Tuesday night's opener, it 
was Cora who grabbed Jim 
Thome's hard grounder to fin­
ish off rookie pitcher Bob Wol­
cott's escape from a bases­
loaded. no-out jam in the first 
inning. 

On Notre Dame home footbal 

game weekends: 
OUTDOOR PAVILION 
Enjoy refreshments and watch other games on the BIG SCREEN TV while you wait for your table in our lighted pavilion. 
Pavi1lion Hours: 3:00p.m. to midnight on Fri. and Sat. Steak &Ale Restaurant 2554 US 31 North* South Bend, IN 46637* 219/277-3766 

BASEBALL PLAYOFF BRACKET 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
New York Yankees owner George Steinbrenner was fined $50,000 by the American League for comments he made about umpires during his team's playoff series against the Seattle Mariners. 
The volatile Steinbrenner confirmed the fine Wednesday, saying, "It seems that everyone else can speak, without being fined, but not me." 
"I don't want to say anything further about the fine," he said. "If I say more, they will fine me more. I already had to borrow $25,000 of the $50,000 just to pay the fine." 
Steinbrenner was fined for his public reaction to umpires' calls he disputed in the first two games of the series last Tuesday and Wednesday at Yankee Stadium. Steinbrenner was highly critical of the umpires and American League president Gene Budig's position on the umpires. 
Steinbrenner, whose fines have reportedly exceeded $600,000 in his 22 years own­ing the Yankees. cited ball­strike calls and safe-out calls as wrong and showed television replays to reporters. 


T-hursday; October 12, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

You're a Business Major cramming for an English Lit exam. It's late and you're cranky. You keep thinking, "How the heck is the damn 'Raven' gonna help me land a job on Wall Street?'' You get angry. So you call Dad to vent. He helps you understand the importance of it all. Then he yells at you for dialing zero to call collect. Quoth the father, "Nevermore." 
I I 

page 18 
• Cou..EGE Fm:nsAu. 
Alstott excels despite Boilermakers' failures 
By HANK LOWENKRON Associated Press 
WEST.LAPAYETTE, Ind. 

Purdue's Mike Alstott has had huge individual success on the football field and major frustra­tion at the same time. 
The senior fullback is rewrit­ing the Boilermakers' record book for rushing and his col­lege career could end next month without a single winning season. 
"It's frustrating," Alstott said. ''I'm a team player ... My goals and my expectations are to­ward team success. 
"Each and every week, it's frustrating. Our offense pro­duces so many points, but there's problems on the defen­sive side of giving up points.'' 
Still, Alstott, who has been selected the team's most valu­able player the past two sea­sons, doesn't put the blame for the Boilermakers being 2-2-1 overall (0-1-1 Big Ten) on the defense. 
"We don't want to point fin­gers. That's a controversy that we don't want to get into," Al­stott said. "We're all really good friends on both sides of the ball, and we're going to stick by each others' side." 
Alstott. who set the school record for rushing touchdowns in a career with his 30th two games ago, heads into Satur­day's game against visiting Penn State needing only one more touchdown to top the school record of 222 points in a career set by Leroy Keyes from 1966-68. And he needs just 45 yards rushing to move into sec­ond place on the school's career-rushing list. 
The Boilermakers have 

scored 19 times in 21 trips in­
side the opponent's 20-yard 
line this year. Alstott has rushed for 100 yards in every game and averaged 5.7 yards per carry. 
And he's been doing some of his best work in the fourth quarter, capitalizing on stami­na developed in offseason training when he pushes a sta­tion wagon and sprints while dragging two tires behind him. It's a method he began using as a high schooler in Joliet, Ill. 
"Obviously we didn't have the weight equipment that we do now.... The summer before I came here, I was pulling tires for 40-yard dashes, to build my legs, increase speed. I was pushing cars for power," Al­stott said. 
"It was just little unique things. I think it gets kind of boring when you go in the same atmosphere. and do the same things every day, and do the same things that every other person does to train." 
The training has paid divi­dends. He's bulked up 30 pounds since arriving at Pur­due, has only 8.2 percent body fat and has quickened his speed in the 40-yard dash to 
4.74 seconds. 
A dedicated worker who bench presses 445 pounds and holds the school record of 575 pounds in the squat, Alstott does much more than carry the ball. 
He was Purdue's No. 2 pass 
receiver with 23 catches for 
298 yards last year, has 10 re­
ceptions for 85 yards this year, 
and on his only collegiatl:i pass 
against Michigan State last 
month, he completed a touch­
down toss that covered 69 
yards. 
The Purdue media guide has his picture on the cover along with the question, "Can a full­back win the Heisman Trophy?" 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

-~-------~--­

FLOWERS DELIVERED fs7 DAYSfs 
~asy !atru, 
Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT 
Phone Answered 
514 
~~~~ ~;n~orth CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277-1291 or 1-800·328-0206 
Happy 21st Birthday 


~~'J .,
IT5\-am1e. 
1 
I 
' 

October 12, 1974••• John James O'Connell Ill was born at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C., while ND was whaling Rice•••10·3! 
Go Irish! 
Love, Mom, Dad and Ryan 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Running back/receiver Ben Mitchell runs for a first down in No. 6 ranked Keenan's 12-6 victory over No. 12 
Off-Campus last night. 
Grace 
continued from page 20 
receiver in the end zone for the game winning score. 
Grace 7, Planner 0 
Planner's offense had a tough time holding on to the football against Grace, and the result was an upset loss. Grace recovered Planner four fumbles in the first half, resulting in a scoreless first half by Planner. 
At half time, however, Planner was still in a position to win because of a swarming defense that did not allow Grace to score. 


When Grace's offense took the field on their first posses­sion of the second half, the defense continued to put pres­sure on the quaterback. Two key penalties, however, put 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to John Potter. Contact J. Potter at 631-6900 for more information. 
T : ' ·t···~·J: ~
ur ..! _:_e· . . ...·
~,re-e 

Ap,ar~tments 
will start handing out applications for the 1996-1997 school year starting Thursday, October 12th between the hours of 10 a.m.-12 p.m. and 3 p.m.-5 p.m. only. Apartment availability is on a first come first serve basis. Applications cannot be mailed and are available at the Turtle Creek leasing office only, Monday­Friday during hours indicated above. 
Grace in a position to score. They responded when Grace quarterback Brian Lopez ran for the touchdown from the 10­yard line. After the successful PAT, Grace led 7-0. 
Planner had one more chance to score late in the fourth quar­ter. but their fourth down attempt was declared one foot short after the measurement._ 
"Moonlight & Valentino" (R) 
2:00. 4:20, 7:00, 9:20 
"The Big Green" {PG) 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
"Steal Big, Steal little" (PG-13) 
2:15,5:00,8:15 
(R) 
2:30, 5:30, 8:30 
"Desperado" (R) 
1:30,4:15,7:15,9:40 
(PG) 
"Usual Suspects" (R) 
2:30, 5:00, 7:25, 9:45 
"To Wong Foo" (PG-13) 
2:15,4:45, 7:15.9:45 
Thursday Night Study Break All Shows $4.00 All Day With I/a lid Student/. D. 
k 


--~-------------------~ 
' 4 ,. 

' ' 
'I 
Thursday, October 12, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 

OUR ORIGINAL PROJ'ECT Tlt\E. LINE Wl\5 TWELVE 
f"\ONTI-\5 ... BUT SINCE 
'(QU PITCHED IN TO 
1-\ELP ... 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 6 Grazing area 7 Directional 
suffix a Direct 25Put--in 9 Southwest 
one's ear Japanese port 26 Dickens's 10 Last year's 
Pecksniff srs. 29 Replacement 11 He speaks: Lat. 
item abbr. 31 Babes in the 12 "The Four 
woods Seasons" 33 Pot top 
pound odds 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
0 
" 
_, 
.. ~ 0 
.. "' @J " 
.. 
.... 0 ... 0 0 
"' 
·;; 
E 
UJ 
~ ~ 
V) 
54 Samoan port, if repeated 55 Heavy clay 57 Onetime Reagan co-star 
59 Women's magazine founded in 1989 
62Wing 63 "Sugar Babies" 
star 64 Frail 65 Like some 
tableware 
DOWN 
1 Went home 2Must 3"East--" 4 To a high 
degree 5 Mertz or Merman 
I DON'T HAVE 1\N E~ACT END DATE 1 BOT IT'S ROUGHL'( THE SAf"\E TIME THAT THE. SUN BECOMES A COLD Dt>.RK. 
CHUN\<. OF COAL 
Tf-\E. SlZ.E. OF YOUR FOREHEAD. 
director 
34 Sign of success 
classifieds.
13 Cary Grant-like 
35 Restaurant 

Get answers to any three clues 
14 Grilled feature 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
21 Part of a dog 36 Fairly solid, as 

5656 (75¢ each minute). 
DAVE KELLETI YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: romantic relationship is passionate Wield authority wisely and you will but explosive too. Try to gain a bet­win new admirers and allies. As you ter perspective where a long-term move ahead quickly at work. partnership is concerned. Communi­remember that long-lasting success cate your needs clearly hut avoid depends on consistent perfommnce. confrontations. A professional mat­Pride and self-discipline will help ter straightens itself out. you keep your good looks all your LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do life. New financial triumphs arc fea­not let someone's demands or ego tured next spring. Those involved in upset you. Those who count know politics will make real inroads as that you arc in the right. Maintam summer approaches. Choose your your poise. TI1is afternoon. a change confidants with care. You cannot of pace will boost your spirits. Use afford to tell everything you know. your imagination. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): In THIS DAY: tenor Luciano Pavarot­business, play your cards close to ti, Weight Watchers founder Jean your chest. Beneficial forces are Nidetch. golfer Sally Little, actor shaping your future. Anned with the Adam Rich. latest facts and figures, you are 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): unbeatable! Romantic prospects arc 
Try to stay on the same wavelength great this month. Mix and mingle. as your employers and colleagues. SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. Your detennination to broaden your 21 ): Research helps you eliminate horizons is put to the test. Be some confusion. A fireside chat will patient. restore domestic ham10ny if you arc 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): sincere. Be willing to travel. A spur­Resist those who urge you to change of-the-moment trip could salvage a direction. Have the courage of your consultant-client relationship. convictions: press on. Take a new CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. approach to any recurring romantic 19): A romantic partner wants a problems. more pennancnt relationship. Con­
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do sider the consequences before mak­not let your finances become chaot­ing a commitment. A busines~ trip ic, especially if this could affect oth­could help you expand your base of ers. A gift of money is headed your operations. Make sure that your car way. Welcome an opportunity to is in top condition. bring help to the needy. AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. Ill): 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You and a family member should Tend to your professional and com­share special moments together. mercial obligations. Collect whatev­Make plans to visit a local attraction er you have coming to you, but wait both of you will enjoy. A good book until next week to launch new ven­or computer program captures your tures. An older person shares useful attention. Seek further infon11ation. infonnation. PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Exercise The pace picks up at work. Prophet· patience when dealing with family ic insights help you predict new members who are difficult or business trends. Motivate others to demanding. You need to postpone do their best. Professional relation­signing a document until up-to-date ships arc more rewarding than in th~ infonnation is available. A long-dis­recent past. Keep business entertain­tance relationship heats up. Be con­ment simple. siderate. 
• OF INTEREST 
"The Political Economy of Regional Development 
and Cooperation in the Pacific Basin. with Special Reference to APEC" is an academic workshop being held October 12·14 in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
•MENU Notre Dame 
North South Jumbo Fish Sandwich Southern Fried Chicken Cheese and Vegetable Pie Chicken Acropolis Lone Star Rice Potatoes Au Gratin 
SaintMary's 
Turkey Pannesan Ginger Pepper Steak ·Brown Rice 

scorr ADAMS e­
~ 

WE'Ll
u 

M~D SWEATERS.
.!: 

NEED 
IT COULD GE.T
~ 
u 

FLASH­
;; 

NIPPY.
LIGHTS.
"' ~ 
, ~ 
. 
0 
... 
" !
.. 
:::>..
..
.. 
0 
~ 
~ 



37 Emmy-winning 48 Tridents comedienne 50 Sticky stuff 
38 Lot 51 Vaccine 39 Repute developer 43 Spanish wave 56 Secluded spot 44 Beliefs 58 British finale 46 Aussie tennis 60 Ribosomal -­
champ Fred 61 "--Blue?'' 47 Turn the --(1929 hit) 
Have something to say? Use The Observer 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Winter workers 10 Woodsy area 15 Place for the 
self-serving 16 Alternative to a Movado 17 Projects, in a 
way 1&Gulfof-­19 Tint again 20 Group 22 -·-de plume 23 Hot time in Paris 24Whata 
commuter mustn't miss 27 Cuckoo 28 Underworld figures · 30 Take as a risk 
31 Caramel­topped dessert 32 Disney pooch 
34 Sad Sack's girlfriend, in the comics 
35 Direct 
40"... --from 
our sponsor" 41 Wore 42 Miss out on a 
prize 43 Beethoven's 
"-Joy" 45 Fast fliers 49 Wolfed down 50 Some 
soon-to-be­marrieds 
52 Designate 
53 --good turn 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
0  Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
0  Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City---------State _____ Zip._______ 
-

~ 
________....,..._______ 
-----..--------------~­
' . ' 

-
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, October 12, 1995 
Wynn responds well to leadership role 
field. "I look at being a senior as a

Defensive end comes up big 
challenge. I have to set exam­ples and do the right things,after switch from linebacker 

the right decsions,"
make Wynn says. "This inc\.udes 

By MEGAN McGRATH and that's helped a lot in fight­both on and off the field. My SportS Writer ing big offensive linemen." 
main goal is to be the bestWynn will be battling a tough player and person week after It's not the most glamourous line Saturday, as Army is week. 

position in college football, de­ranked fifth nationally in rush­"I really strive to do myfensive end. In fact, people ing with 292.3 yards per carry. best," Wynn continues. "I find 
only really notice you when The Cadets' wishbone set 
that if I'm doing well outside you screw up and let an oppos­highlights the talent of junior the game, I'll do well on the 

ing running back gain 200 quarterback Ronnie McAda 
field, and vice versa." 

yards. and senior Wynn has been a main rea­running backs
But Notre 
son for Notre Dame's defensive 
John Conroy

Dame senior 
improvement this season, al­and SteveRenaldo Wynn though he admits the team has Carpenter.

has made a 
a way to go.
"We know

name for him­
"I think everybody would say
big

self in an over­they're a that we're not quite there yet,
rushing

looked position but in all aspects we're betteroffense, and ifwith gritty, in­than last year: intensity, quick­
we're able to

spired play, ath­ness," Wynn says. "There are stop the option
letic prowress, 
a lot of things to correct, butwe'll do well,"

and leadership 
we get better every game." 
Wynn said.

on the field. 
INJURY REPORT 
"Renaldo 
p;' 
Nose guard Grasmanis is listed
~',,J!'BA,L,L

brings a lot to 
:Tp~~~:: ~e~~~ as doubtful for Saturday's
the team when L_____________ 
all of the acad­match against Army, but took ever he's on the emy-type part in practice yesterday. "I field," says fellow senior Paul schools are. We'll have to be 

feel fine," Grasmanis ·said 

Grasmanis. "He's a great pass focused to beat them." 
after practice. ''I'm playing." 

rusher and he's really athletic, Doing battle on the line is Tailback Randy Kinder is still plus he brings a lot of leader­new to Wynn, who moved from doubtful for Saturday, and has­ship and an excellent charac­outside linebacker to defensive 
n't practiced this week. 

ter." end this season. Wynn thinks Derrick Mayes is probable, and Wynn sparked the defense the move has been beneficial to LaRon Moore's status is still upSaturday against Washington both him and the Irish squad. 
in the air, although the senior with four tackles and a sack. "It's been different, but I'm practiced yesterday. 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

He has started every game of the type of player who will do Still o'.Jt for the Irish are line­
Defensive end Renaldo Wynn (right} hopes to contain the Army rush­
the season thus far at left end. what's best for the team," 
ing attack this Saturday, while nose guard Paul Grasmanis says he will backers Jeff Kramer (sprained
He is eigth on the team with 29 Wynn says. "I think it was a 
play against the Cadets despite being listed as doubtful for the game. shoulder) and John 
tackles, second with two and a good decision. Its been good 
McLaughlin (strained ham­half sacks, and leads the team for me and the team. But I'm Defensive coordinator Bob you come up with the big plays, string) and free saftey Jarvis in tackles for a loss with four. not a person who. would get a Davie values emotion in his you play with intensity and you Edison (abdominal contusion). 
"I've been working on my bad attitude or fight against a can turn the game around." 
players, and Wynn delievers Tailback Robert Farner is out pass rush and quickness this coaching decision." every weekend. As a senior, Wynn sees being for four weeks with torn knee season," Wynn says. "I _gained His positive attitude and in­"I don't think you can play an example to his team as his· ligaments, while Kurt Belisle a lot of strength and put on tensity make Wynn one of the without emotion." Wynn says. primary role. This role and Jeremy Akers are out for 
some weight in the summer, leaders of the defensive unit. "When you ,play with emotion extends both on and off the 
the season. 

Grace wins battle of towers 
By TODD FITZPATRICK but the kick was wide. They played. We've gone far in the Sports Writer redeemed themselves, howev­playoffs every year. We er, with a touchdown on their weren't going to lose this game 
Two upsets and a fantastic next possession. at any cost," explained Nelson. finish were the results of the Stanford retaliated with a men's interhall football games 
Keenan 12, Off-Campus 6 last night. The defenses for both teams 
An inspired Stanford team were dominating for most of came back to defeat No. 2 the first half. Neither team Morrissey by a 9-7 score. scored until late in the first Stanford began the scoring in half. the first quarter when the Off-Campus scored first after offense drove to the 10-yard driving down the field with big line. After trying to bust it up gains on the ground. They the middle, the offense was capped off the impressive series stopped at the 5-yard line. The with a quarterback sneak to drive set up a field goal by kick­give them a 6-0 lead. er Kris Kazlauskas. Keenan came storming back 
Defense dominated the rest of on their first drive of the sec­the half, but Morrissey had one long run by John Mele that ond half with some big gains more opportunity to score in pushed his team over midfield. on the ground and a penalty the last minute of the half. Mele proceeded to rumble that pushed them over midfield. With :21 seconds left in the through the gaping hole creat­Keenan ended the drive with a half, the Stanford defense ed by the offensive line for the touchdown, t)ring the score 6-6, recorded two consecutive sacks touchdown. but the PAT was blocked. to end the drive. Stanford's two point conver­The game remained tied until 
On the first possession of the sion attempt was stopped, but the last minute of the game. second half, Morrissey's run­G.R. Nelson secured the victory Keenan quarterback Chad 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen ning game was succesful with an interception late in the Chevalier found a wide open 
Wednesday night's disappointing 12-6 loss to No. 6 ranked Keenan enough to put themselves in fourth quarter. 
was the last lnterhall game for most of the Off-Campus squad. position for a field goal attempt, "This is the third year I've see GRACE/ page 18 


Football 
-
vs. Army at Giants Stadium October 14, 12:00 EST 
Volleyball 
vs. Georgia Tech, October 13 vs. Texas, October 14 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Providence, October 14, 7:30p.m. 

Women's Soccer 
• Braves rally to beat Reds. 

vs. Duke, October 13 vs. North Carolina, October 14 
see page 15 Houston, Texas 
• Indians even up series with Mariners. 

SMC Sports Soccer vs. Rockford, October 14 see page 16 Volleyball vs. Kalamazoo, October 14 
• Steinbrenner fined $50,000. 
see page 16 

I i 
.. 
Human Life Alliance of Minnesota Inc. 
[IZ,Oc.t fq9s-]

Advertising Supplement 
<il Copyright Human Lie Alliance of Mlnnesola, Inc. 1993 1995 

2 1995 Human Life Alliance Advertising Supplement 
The 
of the Matter 

The special love between a mother and baby comes straight from the heart. 
This supplement has been prepared and copyrighted by Human Life Alliance of Minnesota, Inc., 3570 Lexington Avenue North, Suite 301 • St. Paul, Minnesota 55126 • (612) 484-1040. 
Dear Reader: 
If you're in a crisis pregnancy, or know someone who is, please be assured that we understandthe emotional trauma you are going through-the doubts, the fears, the sense ofshame andfrustration. We know the agonizing decisions you face and the pressures you feel. 
At first blush, opting for an abortion probably sounds like the"quick-.fix" so­lution to your problem. You need to be advised, as this supplement does in numerous articles, that abortion is not in your best interest. Those who have been telling you that it's a "women's rights" issue have been withholding critical in­formation from you. 
Actually, ifyou are subjecting your­self to the possible after-effects ofabor­tion, as outlined on page eleven; or put­ting yourselfin the position ofbeing the anguished mother pouring out her heart from personal experience (also page eleven); or making yourself two to four timesmoreprone to breast cancer ( docu­mented by recent research), shouldn't people who claim to be /JJL.women be warning you ofthese consequences? 
Perhaps abortion isn'tabout women's rights after all! What then, or whom, is it about? The answer can be found within these pages. 
For instance, isn't it exciting to dis­cover, as Dr. Jerome Lejeune points out on page four that the miniaturized lan­guage mapping out the new baby at the time offertilization contains more infor­mation about him!her than can be stored in five sets (not volumes) ofEncyclope­dia Britannica? 
It is our hope that in reading this sup­plement and relating to the preborn child you will be convinced that abortion, besides not being in your best interest, is indeed an unjust, inhumane and i"e­versible destruction ofan innocent human life. There are alternatives to such a drastic measure! 
Is carrying your baby to term a man­ageable decision? Yes it is! Please refer to page five to realize the number of people and organizations ready and eager to help you. Don't hesitate to call on them, whatever your needs. The sup­port is there to see you through your crisis pregnancy -and beyond! 
Remember the decision you make will affectyoufor the rest ofyour life. Don't let anyone pressure you into a quick decision! We don't pretend to have an easy solution-but a just, manageable, rewarding one, one which you will not regret: continued life for your baby! 
~~ 
Marlene Reid, President 
Human Life Alliance ofMinnesota 

The War of Words 
Claim: Abortion is legal, therefore, it must be right. Answer: Ifchild abuse were sudden! y declared legal by the U.S. Supreme Court, would that make it right? Would we ignore such an injustice and do nothing to protect the children? 
Claim: I have the right to "choose" to abort my baby, a woman's "right to choose!" Answer: Abraham Lincoln once said "No one has the right to choose to do what is wrong." Furthermore, the advocates who defend this "choice" are not consistent. Why is it only in the case of abortion they argue that "choice" should be legal and absolute? Using the same rationale, shouldn't people have the right to "choose" to use drugs ("It's my body") or the right to "choose" to practice prostitution? Should our society allow a person to"choose" to kill another person (or have that person killed) to solve the first person's problem? 
Claim: The government should not interfere with a woman's "right" to abortion. Answer: Our Declaration of Independence declares that we have an " inalienable right to Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness." Thomas Jeffcrson defined government's role, "The care of human life and happiness, and not their destruction, is the first and only object ofgood government." Pres. Reagan, a defender ofthe human and civil rights ofthe pre born, called it "the transcendent right to life of all human beings, the right without which no other rights have any meaning." (Without life, taxation, health-care etc. arc immaterial). 
Claim: Ifpublic money (tax money) is not available to payfor abortions "poor" women will be denied access to abortion. They will be discriminated against. 
Answer: Are we obligated to provide cigarettes and alcohol to poor people if they cannot afford them? On the contrary, government is very explicit about which items may be purchased with food stamps. Is this considered discrimination? The same people who argue for "public" subsidies for abortions arc the same ones who argue that it is a "private" decision. To quote Congressman Henry Hyde," We have a" right" offree speech. Does this mean the government has to buy us a personal computer? A typewriter? A megaphone?" 
Claim: I am personally opposed to abortion, but I would not interfere with another's right to have an abortion nor impose my morality on others. 
Answer: Analogy --if President Lincoln and the abolitionists had bought this line of reasoning regarding the slavery issue, we could still be saddled with slavery today. Every law ever passed sets standards which reflect somconc's (or a body of law-makers') morality. 
Claim: You want to ban women's "constitutional right" to abortion. Answer: This is a "spurious" or false "right"-having no basis in the constitution. The U.S. Supreme Court claims to have discovered a "privacy" right in the "penumbra" of the Constitution ("penumbra" definition: a partly lighted area around an area of full shadow). Court decisions (Roe v. Wade and Doe v. Bolton) are aberrations (deviations from truth) and do nothing more than grant temporary license to kill children in the womb, the most dangerous place of residence. This license is tenuous and could be over-ridden by reversal or an amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Indeed, to guarantee the permanent freedom of the slaves and establish rights for all U.S. "persons" the 14th Amendment to the Constitution was passed. It states, "...No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States: nor shall any state deprive any person oflife, liberty, or property without due process oflaw; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection ofthe law." (emphasis added). In Roe v. W~de th~Cou~t determined that unborn children are not "persons" even though they have the nght to mhent property and many other rights. Some states have entire sections of law outlining Crimes Against Unborn Children in which they, from conception on, arc protected from negligent or willful harm or death. 
Claim: If legal abortions are banned, women will resort to back alley abortions. Answer: In 1972, the year before the Supreme Court legalized abortion, a total of39 women died from illegal abortions, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control. Former abortion provider Carol Everett states, "In the last 18 months I was in the business, we were completing 500 abortions monthly and killing or maiming one woman out of 500" (p.lO). If the numbers are this astounding for her four Texas clinics, it docsn 't take an expert mathematician to figure out that the number of casualties happening nationwide at the over 2200 supposedly "safe" abortuaries would be in the high hundreds. 
Claim: Abortion should be legal to end a pregnancy resulting from rape or incest. Answer: It is important to remember that the child conceived in rape, or incest, is no less human than any other child. David Reardon's article, (page 8) points out that the very worst solution that can be offered to the pregnant woman at this crisis time in her life is an abortion. Abortion compounds the problem! If a small child were killed in the street by a negligent driver and it was later determined that the child had been conceived in rape, would the driver be held less responsible? Is that child's death less tragic? 
Human Ute Alliance Advertising Supplement 
1995 

Test Your Abortion I.a. 
1. 
On January 22, 1973 the U.S. Supreme Court legalized abortion through which month of pregnancy? A) 3rd month; B) 4th month; C) 6th month; D) 9th month 

2. 
Since abortion was legalized in 1973 the number of preborn babies' lives extinguished by abortion is: A) 6 million; 


B) 12 million C) 30 million; D) 32 million 
3. 
Abortion is the leading cause of death in the U.S., causing what percent of total deaths? A) 21 %; B) 35%;C) 46%; D) 52% 

4. 
What age group of women have the greatest number of abortions? A) 15 -19; 


B) 20 -24; C) 25 -29; D) 30 -34 
5. 
About 10 million Black children have been aborted since abortion was legalized. This is what fraction of the present Black population in the U.S.? A) one-eighth; B) one-fifth; C) one-third; D) one-half 

6. 
Since 1960 the number of babies born out-of-wedlock has risen by what percent? A)60%; B) 105%; C) 250%; D) 419% 

7. 
Women who abort their ftrst child stand how much greater risk of developing breast cancer? A) 3 x; B) 2 x; C) 4 x 

8. 
With the advances in medical science the number of surgical procedures which arc now performed on babies in the womb is: A) over 50; B) 80; C) 90; D) over 100 

9. 
One out of every how many preborn babies is killed by abortion? A) two; 


B) three; C) four; D) six 
10. What percent of abortions performed in the U.S. are repeat abortions? A)30%; 
B) nearly 40%; C) nearly 50%; D) 60% 
II. What percent of women who have had abortions experience suicidal tendencies? 
A) 45%; B) 60%; C) 70%; D) 75% 
12. A developing baby's heart begins to beat at: A) 21 days; B) 30 days; 
C) 45 days; D) 60 days 
13) How many Americans now have an incurable sexually transmitted disease? A)20 million; B) 36 million; C) 56 million 
I4) Every year up to what number of U.S. women become infertile because of STDs? A)66,000; B)75,000; C)98,000; D)I50,000 
The answers to lhese questioos can be found oo p. 9. 
Abortion is Legal During 7th, 8th and 9th Months 
In Roe v. Wade the Court allowed states to restrict abortions in the 3rd trimester "except where it is necessary ... for the preservation of life or health of the mother." However, in Doe v. Bolton, the companion case to Roe, the Court defined "health" to include "all factors-physical, emotional, psychological, familial, and the woman's age -relevant to the well-being of the patient." Because of this broad definition of "health" the Court, in effect, permitted abortion-on-demand in all fifty states right up until birth for any reason! 
Chronology of a New Life 
Fertilization: The sperm joins with the ovum to form one cell. This 
one cell contains the complex genetic blueprint for every detail of human 
development-the child's sex, hair and eye color, height, skin tone etc. 
Month One: The first cell divides within several hours and then cell 
division continues in an orderly fashion every few hours as the small group 
of cells travels down the Fallopian tube to the uterus, where the uterine 
lining has been prepared for implantation. There are over 100 cells present 
when this tiny embryo reaches the uterus 7 to 10 days after fertilization. 
Day 20-foundations of the brain, spinal cord and nervous system are 
already established; day 21-the heart begins to beat in a regular fashion; 
day 28-the backbone, the rest of the skeleton, and muscles are forming­
arms, legs, eyes and cars have begun to show. At one month old, the 
embryo is 10,000 times larger than the original fertilized egg-and 
developing rapidly. The heart is pumping increased quantities of blood 
through the system. The placenta forms a unique barrier that keeps the 
mother's blood separate, but allows food and oxygen to pass to the baby. 
Month Two: At 35 days the pre-born baby has all her fingers. Brainwaves can be detected at day 40; the brain is controlling 40 sets of muscles as well as the organs. The jaw forms including teeth buds in the gums. The eyelids seal during this time to protect the baby's developing light-sensitive eyes which will reopen in the seventh month. The stomach produces diges­tive juices and the kidneys have begun to function. The tiny human being responds to touch. By 8 weeks, the developing baby is now referred to as the fetus, a Latin word meaning "young one" or "offspring." 
Month Three: Day 63 (9 weeks): Unique fingerprints are evident and never change. The baby now sleeps, awakens and exercises her muscles by turning her head, curling her toes, and opening and closing her mouth ­often sucking her thumb. Her palm, when stroked, will make a tight fist. She breathes amniotic fluid to help develop her respiratory system. By 12 wks. all the organs and systems of her body are functioning. The only major activity from now until birth is growth -the increase in her size. 
Month Four: By the end of this month (16 weeks) the baby is 8 to 10 inches in length and weighs a half pound or more. Her ears are functioning, and there is evidence that the baby hears her mother's voice and heartbeat, as well as external noises. The umbilical cord has become an engineering marvel, transporting 300 quarts of fluids per day and completing a round­trip of fluids every 30 seconds. Because the preborn child is now larger, the mother usually begins to feel her baby's movements during this month. 
Month Five: Half the pregnancy has now passed. The baby is about I2 inches long. Ifa sound is especially loud or startling, she may jump in re­action to it Babies born at this stage of development (19 -20 weeks) are surviving at an increasing rate thanks to advances in medical technology. 
Month Six: (24 weeks): Oil and sweat glands are functioning. The baby's delicate skin is protected in the amniotic sac by a special ointment "vernix." 
Month Seven: The baby's brain has as many cells as it will have at birth. The preborn child uses the four senses of vision, hearing, taste and touch. Research has documented that she can now recognize her mother's voice. 
Month Eight: The skin begins to thicken, with a layer of fat stored underneath for insulation and nourishment. Antibodies increasingly build up. The baby swallows a gallon of amniotic fluid per day, more if it is sweetened. She often hiccups. She has been urinating for several months. 
Month Nine: Toward the end of this month, the baby is ready for birth. The average duration of pregnancy is 280 days from the first day of the mother's last menstrual period, but this varies. By this time the infant's heart is pumping 300 gallons of blood per day. In response to signals from the brain the child triggers labor and birth occurs. Of the 45 generations of cell divisions before adulthood, 41 have taken place in the womb. Only four more will come -during the rest of childhood and before adolescence. In developmental terms we spend 90% of our lives in the womb. 




4 1995 ·Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 
Life begins at conception 
Legalized Abortion Based on Lies and Fraud 
Norma McCorvey was the "Jane Roe" of Roe v. Wade. 
Early in 1970 Norma Mccorvey claimed that she had been gang-raped and became pregnant. Attorneys Sarah Weddington and Linda Coffee, newly graduated from the University ofTexas Law School, needed a "client" in order to challenge Texas' 1 00-year old law that banned abortions. They convinced Norma that she should be seeking an abortion. 
The case was subsequently argued all the way to the Supreme Court which resulted in legalizing abortion in aliSO states in 1973. In the meantime, Norma's baby was born and released for adoption. In 1987, McCorvey admitted that the gang-rape was a lie. In August 
1995, she joined Operation Rescue stating that she was tired of being exploited by the pro­abortionists. 
While Roe v. Wade legalized abortion, on the same date, Doe v. Bolton provided for abortion-on-demand for the entire nine months of pregnancy and was the legal vehicle which provided Court sanction for the over 2200 abortion mills across the country. 
Sandra Cano was "Mary Doe" of Doe v. Bolton 
Sandra Cano now says she was an unwitting participant in fraud on the highest court in the land. Sandra was a young expectant mother with three children facing a divorce from a husband who was in jail for child molestation. Cano's three children had been taken from her by family service workers. They were being shunted from one bad environment to another. Cano loved her children dearly. She was almost insane with grief when she turned to Legal Aid Services for help. The offer ofN.O.W. lawyers to take the whole mess off her hands, obtain a divorce and regain custody of her children sounded too good to be true. 
When the attorneys hinted that they would like to strike a deal which would include aborting the child Sandra was carrying she made it very clear that she could never do that. Yet, her attorneys ignored her objections and ran roughshod over her. When she realized her case had been used to obtain abortion-on-demand she said, " ... why would I stretch my imagina­
tion to include a plan so bizarre that it would give people in a civilized society permission to kill their own babies? ... I surely never thought they would tie my personal anxieties about retrieving my children to a scheme tomakeabortion-on-demandlegal." Ironically, theCano baby, like the McCorvey baby, was carried to term and relinquished for adoption. Yet, 30,000,000 other babies have lost their lives to abortion because of these two cases. 
Sarah Weddington was the Attorney 

Sarah Weddington, the attorney who argued Roe v. Wade before the U.S. Supreme Court, gave a speech at the Education Ethics Institute in Oklahoma. She explained why she defended the sketchy story and false rape charge ofa Texas waitress "Jane Roe" all the way to the Supreme Court: "My behavior may not have been totally ethical. But I did it for what I thought were the right reasons." Tulsa World 5124193. 
Playboy Provided the Funding 

Hugh Heffner, founder of Playboy claims to have done one great thing for women: "Playboy probably had more to do than any other company with Roe v. Wade. We supplied the money for those early cases and actually wrote the amicus curiae for Roe." 
"Each of us has a very precise starting moment which is the time at which the whole necessary and sufficient genetic information is gathered inside one cell, the fertilized egg, and this is the moment of fertilization. There is not the slightest doubt about that and we know that this information is written on a kind of ribbon which we call the DNA." 

Jerome Lejeune, M.D., Ph.D., tells us much about the intricacies ofthe beginning of human life. Contrary to the popular view that the tiny baby becomes more and more "de­veloped" as the weeks of preg­nancy go on, Dr. Lejeune says that the very first cell, the fertilized egg, is " the most specialized cell under the sun." No other cell will ever again have the same instructions in the life of the individual being created. 
In the words of Dr. Lejeune, "Each of us has a very precise starting moment which is the time at which the whole nec­essary and sufficient genetic information is gathered inside one cell, the fertilized egg, and this is the moment of fer­tilization. There is not the slightest doubt about that and we know that this information is written on a kind of ribbon which we call the DNA." 
He explains that the ferti­lized egg contains more infor­
mation about the new indi­vidual than can be stored in five sets (not volumes) of the Encyclopedia Britannica (if enlarged to normal print). To further emphasize the minute­ness of this language, Dr. Lejeune states that if all the one-metre-long DNA of the sperms and all the one-metre­long DNA of the ova which contain the instructions for the 5 billion human beings who will replace us on this planet were brought together in one place the total amount of matter would be roughly the size of two aspirin tablets. 
When Dr. Lejeune testified in the Louisiana Legislature (House Committee on the Ad­ministration of Criminal Jus­tice, June 7, 1990) he stated, "Recent discoveries .by Dr. 
Alec Jeffreys of England dem­onstrate that this information (on the DNA molecule) is stored by a system of bar codes not unlike those found on products at the supermarket ... it's not any longer a theory that each of us is unique." 
Dr. Lejeune states that be­cause of studies published within the last year we can now determine within three to seven days after fertilization if the new human being is a boy or a girl. 
"I see no difference between the early person that you were at, conception and the late person which you are 
now. You were, and are, a human being." 
"At no time," Dr. Lejeune says, "is the human being a blob of protoplasm. As far as your nature is concerned, I see no difference between the early person that you were at conception and the late per­son which you are now. You were, and are, a human be­ing." 
In the testimony Dr. Lejeune gave on The Seven Human Embryos (Circuit Court for Blount County, Tennessee at Maryville, Equity Division, August 8-10, 1989) he com­pared the chromosome to a mini-cassette, in which a sym­phony is written, the sym­phony of life. He explained that if you buy a cartridge on which a Mozart symphony has been recorded and insert it 


Dr. Jerome Lejeune 
in a player, what is being re­produced is the movement of the air that transmits to you thegeniusofMozart. In mak­ing the analogy he said, "It's exactly the same way that life is played. On the tiny mini­cassettes which are our chro­mosomes are written various parts of the opus which is for human symphony, and as soon as all the information neces­sary and sufficient to spell the 
whole symphony (is brought together), this symphony plays itself, that is, a new man is beginning his career ... as soonashehasbeenconceived,. a man is a man." 
Dr.Jerome Lejeune died on April 3, /994. Dr. Lejeune of Paris, 
. France was a medical doctor. a Doctor ofScience and a profes­sor ofFundamental Genetics for over 20 years. Dr. Lejeune dis­covered the genetic cause of Down Syndrome, receiving the Kennedy Prize for the discovery and, in addition, received the Me­
morial Allen Award Medal, the world's highest award for work in the field ofGenetics. He prac­tised his profession at the Hopi tal des Enfants Malades (Sick Chil­dren's Hospital) in Paris. Dr.Lejeune wasamemberofthe American Academy ofArts and Science, a member of the Royal Society of Medicine in London, The Royal Society of Science in Stockholm. the Science Acad­emy in Italy and Argentina. The Pontifical Academy of Science and The Academy ofMedicine in France. 
If you would like to obtain a copy of Dr. Lejeune's testimony on The Seven Human Embryos send $4.00 to Human Life Alliance of MN, Inc., 3570 Lexington Ave. N., Suite 301, St. Paul, MN 55126-8087. 
Do You Hear What I Hear? 
"With no hype at all, the fetus can rightly be called a maroel of cognition, consciousness and sentience." 

"She slides into the world with 
eyes alert, the tiny ridges of her ears living antennae scanning the con­
" ... When a loudspeaker directs speech syllables at a mother-to-be'sversation frequencies in the room. She finds her mother's voice with he rears, 

abdomen, the fetus's heart slows, a sign and her eyes." of attentiveness. The heartbeat speeds The baby's alertness and awareness be­
up as the fetus gets bored with the sounds, then slows again if new ones flow intogins with early development in the womb. The preborn baby can hear and respond to 

the womb." sound. Car horns can make the baby 
A fetus remembers some experiences jump. Her heartbeat quickens. and may alter her behavior as a result. When Peter Hepper of Queens Univer­
The title, the direct quotes and other pertinent 

sity in Belfast repeatedly played to 30­
information in this article are taken from:

week-old fetuses the theme song from a 
Newsweek Special Issue, "How Kids Grow," popular soap opera, they relaxed. After Summer 1991 (Begley). 

--------~------­
1995 5

Human Ute Alliance Advertising Supplement 
Pregnancy Care Centers and Resources 
Contact centers below for helo! Various services available (though not at a!! locations) include: • Free confidential pregnancy testing • Confidential counseling .. alternatives and options explored • Referrals for medical, legal, and financial aid • Assistance with housing needs • Adoption referrals • Free maternity and baby clothes (some furniture) 
• Childbirth classes and labor coaching • Post-abortion c_ounsellng • Help and support for single mothers • Other family support groups • Parenting help and education. 
Pregnancy Hotline 1-800-848-LOVE (5683) Nurturing Network 1-800-866-4666 Birthright 1-800-550-4900 Bethany Christian Services 1-800-238-4269 
America's Crisis Pregnancy Helpline 1-800-67-BABY-6 
Delphi • 317-564-4440 215 South Washington, P.O. Box 152 
Evansville • 812-424-2555 20 ReadS!. 
Allen County Catholic Charities •219-422-7511 315 E Washington St, Fort Wayne 
Crisis Pregnancy Center •219-422-3544 3030 Lake Ave, Suite 20, Fort Wayne 
Nurses Concerned for Life • 219-426-0065 3409 Conestoga Dr, Suite A, Fort Wayne 
Nurses Concerned for Life 105 S Clinton, Fort Wayne 
219-426-0065 
Manhew 25 Clinic • 219-426-3250 413 E.Jefferson, Fort Wayne 
Bartholomew County Pregnancy Care Center of Columbus 3915 Williamsburg Way•812-378-4114 
Cass County Crisis Pregnancy Hotline Logansport, IN • 219-722-7202 
Clark County Pregnancy Plus Line •812-948-0404 
Clay County Crisis Pregnancy Center 20 N Meridian,Brazil •812-448-3444 
Daviess County Evansville Diocese Catholic Charities 
812-423-5456 
Dubois County Matrix Lifeline • 812-683-2111 
P.O. Box 75, Huntingburg 
Elkhart County Catholic Charities • 1-800-875-5286 Project Rachel, adoption, & Counseling 
Pregnancy Help Services 300 W High St, Elkhart • 219-522-4357 
RET A -Housing Services 300 W High St, Elkhart • 219-522-3888 
Pregnancy Help Services 303 S 3rd St, Goshen • 219-533-0440 
Floyd County Pregnancy Plus Line • 812-948-0404 702 E Market St, New Albany 
St. Elizabeth's • 812-949-7305 621 E Market St, New Albany 
Hammond • 219-931-8145 5307 State Line Ave. 
Michigan City • 219-879-7770 1801 Wabash Street 

Gibson County Catholic Charities • 812-423-5456 
Greene County Catholic Charities • 812-423-5456 
Harrison County Pregnancy Plus Line • 1-800-219-5285 
Hendricks County Partners in Care 2013 E Main St.Danville • 317-745-9531 
Howard County St. Joseph's Prenatal Clinic 317-456-5417 1907 W. Sycamore, POBox 901 O,Kokomo 
Knox County 

Catholic Charities • 812-423-5456 Henry County Pregnancy Care Center • 317-529-7298 540 S Main St Suite 2 New Castle 
Kosciusko County Heartline Pregnancy Center 337 N Buffalo, Warsaw • 219-267-5110 
Lake County St. Monica Home • 219-865-2141 South Campus, US Highway 30, Dyer 
Single Expectant Parent Program Catholic Family Services • 219-844-4883 Serving East Chicago, Gary and Hammond 6919 Indianapolis Blvd, Hammond 46324 
Marian Home for Pregnant Adolescents 225 E 7th Ave, Gary • 219-882-0825 
The Answer for Pregnancy Aid inc. Hotline 219-947-2272 
Counseling Connection • 219-769-3112 514 E 86th Ave, Merrillville 
Lake County Women's Center • 219-769-4321 Bethsada Home • 21 ~-462-4111 64 w80th Place, Merrillville 354 West St, Valparatso 
Laporte County Pulaski County Single Expectant Parent Prog .• 219-879-9312 S~eet Beginnings Program for Pregnant Girls 
1501 Franklin St, Michigan City W1namac • 219-946-6131 
Randolph County
Lawrence County Pregnancy Care Center • 1-800-705-5571 
Mothers & Unborn Babies • 812-275-2827 301 W North St. Winchester 317-584-2442 
1711 H Street, Bedford Media Associates affiliated with MARC are 


Madison county Ri~l.ey County . 
convinced that abortion is indefensible and 

New Horizons Maternity Home • 317-724-3881 Cns1s Pregnancy Hotline • 812-934-5116 
are com mined to helping pro-life and pro­216 W Washington St, Alexandria ScoH County 
family groups get this message to the public. PO Box 5100 • Zionsville, IN 46077 • 317-873-6649 Rensselaer • 219-866-4555 216 1/2 West Washington St. Apt A 


Richmond • 317-962-7439 303 South 6TH Street 
Alpha Crisis Pregnancy Center • 317-649-0449 24 West 17th St, Anderson 
Marion County Indianapolis Crisis Pregnancy Centers 2732 Lafayene Ad • 317-923-9030 1001 E. 86th St, SuiteD • 317-259-1222 528 4 Turtle Creek N Dr • 317-783-1601 1 007 N Arlington • 317-359-5467 Birthline • 317-635-4808 
St. Elizabeth's • 317-787-3412 2500 Churchman Ave, Indianapolis 
Marshall County Women's Care Center • 219-936-5141 112 E Washington, Plymouth 
Martin County Catholic Charities • 812-423-5456 
Miami County Crisis Pregnancy Hotline • 317-473-5065 
Monroe County Crisis Pregnancy Center • 812-334-0055 214 S College, Bloomington 
Montgomery County Crisis Pregnancy Assistance • 317-362-3028 407 E Market Suite 1 05, Crawfordville 
Noble County Center for Troubled Pregnancy 112 S State St, Kendallville • 219-347-5720 
Perry County Family Neighborhood Health Center 1706 Medical Arts Dr • 812-683-6343 
Porter County Single Expectant Parent Prog. • 219-762-1177 2967 Willow Creek Dr, Portage 
Pregnancy Assistance • 219-477-4460 401 Marquene, Valparaiso 
Problems After an Abortion? Conquerors Hotline 1-612-866-7715 American Victims of Abortion 1-202-626-8800 American Rights Coalition 1-800-634-2224 Victims Of Choice 
1-708-378-1680~--~~~--~~ 

Education Fund disclaims any 
Life Dynamics 
liability for any actions of any organization or its personnel 
1-817-380-8800 
listed in this Rochester • 219-223-9499 802 1/2 Main Street 
Terre Haute • 812-234-5433 227 South 9TH Street 
Valparaiso • 219-462-3502 23 Lincoln 
St. Joseph County South Bend Centers Birthline • 219-234-3111 Pregnancy Lifeline • 219-232-3271 Catholic Charities • 1-800-686-3112 South Bend Women's Care Centers 417 N. St.Louis Blvd. • 219-232-3271 305 S Chapin St • 219-234-0395 
Women's Care Center • 219-254-2784 201 Lincoln way W, Mishawaka 
Tippecanoe County Matrix Lifeline Pregnancy Center 1824 Maple St, Lafayene• 317-742-1533 
Life Care Services • 317-743-4488 233 Harrison St, West Lafayette 
Vanderburgh County Evansville Pregnancy Care Centers Pregnancy Support • 812-985-5262 Crisis Pregnancy Center • 812-473-7733 Greater Love Adoption Decision G.L.A.D. • 812-424-4523• 812-423-8000 
New Life Home •812-473-7733 3700 Bellemeade Ave, Suite 202 
Vigo County St. Elizabeth's/Bethany House 1402 Locust, Terre Haute • 812-232-49 
Crisis Pregnancy Center • 812-234-8059 1527 Poplar St, Terre Haute 
Wabash County Life Inc. 219-563-7275 603 Bond St, North Manchester 
Life Inc. • 219-563-7275 280 N Wabash St, Wabash 
Warrick County Family Neighborhood Health Center Huntingburg • 812-683-6343 
Washington County CARE Pregnancy Help Center 607 w. Market St., Salem • 812-883-2675 
Whitley County Life Center • 24 Hr Hotline • 219-248-2633 



f 



..;.·' 
. .• •'<.:;:._: 
~' ... :. 
) 


Art Din•l'tor, Steve Clark -Photography, Phillip Parker 
Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 1995 7 

,_..., 
, \ 
•I 

••:l 
. ' 
. . \ ... /• 

. ·,~J' ~~~% 
'I 
1 Before, •
1

1 1 There 'r­\ ' WaB I
One
'tr#I More. ,1 

' \ I I, , 
f 
I i 
\ I : 
;.. 
' 

' A 
I {.-11 I 
1~ ,'Every Twenty Seconds ' ; ; A life Is Taken By Abortion... · .. That's ALot Of Love Lost 

8 1995 Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 
Birth mother The abortion experience Opts for for victims of rape and incest Adoption... 
by David C. Reardon abortion. Jackie Bakker, whose SeJ1eral reasons were gi,en Rape and incest are very emo­testimony is in my book,2 says, for notaborting. First, seHral
The Loving 
tional topics. They often elicit '1 soon discovered that the af­women felltltol abortion was in the general populace feelings termath of my abortion contin­another tu:t ofJ1ioknce-tltol of revulsion; people draw back ued a long time after the mem­it was immoral or murder. One from the issue of rape and in­ory ofmy rape had faded. I felt said she would only suffermore cest, even from the victims of empty and horrible. Nobody mental anguish from takingthe rape and incest People don't told me about the emptiness and life of a baby. Second, some 
Alternative 
It was the beginning of my junior year in 
know how to handle a person pain I would feel deep within saw an intrinsic meaning or
high school. I was excited, looking forward 
who is in that much pain. There causing nightmares anddeep de­purpose to the child. Somehow 
to another year of diving, gymnastics and 
is no quick fix .... pressions. They had all told me this child was foisted into their 
track. But this excitement quickly came to Some people who are other­that after the abortion I could liHs but, on the other hand, an end when I realized I was pregnant. wise ,erypro-life will condone continue withmy life as ifnoth­they sensed some sort ofhidden abortion in rape and incest ing had happened." This is the purpose behind it. And a/,.
When the pregnancy was confirmed, my 
cases becQJlse they don't know same story we hear from a lot of though not responsible for
mind went racing. It wasn't enough to just 
wltolelsetooffer. Andthey wiU aborted women. But for the haJ1ing brought the child into 
say that I was scared -I was terrified! The 
tu:cept it as a rare case. This rape and incest victim it is an es­being, ithadhappened, andthe idea of having an abortion was nna a pro-life di.fT~eulty in defending peciallykeenstory, because they consequences could be liHd consideration lor me. I could not live born. Their video camcorder ran non-stop. the unborn eHn in rape andin­have been told, "In your situ­with. Third, ata subconscious with the realization thatI was responsible I will always treasure the three days I spent cest cases is largely due to igno­ation that is the only thing you leJ1el, the rape J1ictim feels that 
rance because the ftu:ts, as I can do." And they have been ifshe can get through the preg­
lor taking the life of my child -a death in the hospital with my son. Handing him 
haHfound them, show thatthe betrayed by that advice. noncy she wiU haJ1e conquered
because of my actions. over to his new parents was by no means J1ictim's needs are not being therape. Outlasting pregnancy My first instincts told me that I needed to easy, but I knew in my heart that this was the serJ1ed by abortion. In fact, shows she is better than the
"/ felt empty and 

raise my child on my own. I knew I could right decision for both of us. rapeandincestJ1ictims actually rapist who bnltalized her. a;,_ suffer considerably from the horrible ... They had all ing birth, then, is the way rape 
love and care for a child, but when I stopped Many tears were shed throughout the nine 
abortion. J1ictims seek to reclaim their
thinking about myself, and thought about months and during the hospital stay. But, told me that after the 
The facts suggest that only a self-esteem. It is a totaUy self­what was best for my child, I knew adoption they were not all tears ofsadness. I miss my minority of rape and incest vic­abortion I could con­less act, a generous act, espe­
was the right decision. I was sixteen at the son very much. I think about him every day tims actually choose abortion1-ciaUy in light ofthe pressure to 
tinue with my life as if 

time. I wanted to go back to school for my and a smile comes to my face. I thank the so right there, one should pause abort. It is a way for them to 
nothing had

senior year and wanted to participate fully, Lord that He led me to two such special and reflect. Abortion is not display their courage and 
usuallychosen as the immediate happened." strength to suTJ1iJ1e eJ1en a rape. 
in sports etc. I wanted to go on to college. people to be adoptive parents for my child. 
solution by rape and incest vic­In her study, Mahkom found 
I knew I could not do all of this and raise a It has been several years since my son was 
tims but that is the prevailing that feelings or issues relating to child at the same time. I did not want to have born. He now has an adoptive sister. I keep beliefofthe general population. the rape experience were the
VIctims Gave Reasons to to live with my parents indefinitely and in contact with the family through letters and A woman has been raped and Forego Abortion primary concern for most of the made pregnant: "Oh, she's got pregnant rape victims -not
depend on them for everything. I did not pictures. I can't begin to explain the feelings Perhaps the best study was 
to have an abortion." No one pregnancy. While 19% -a
want them to be thrust into the role ofprime of pride and contentment that I experience done by Dr. Sandra Mahkom,
has studied the rape and incest significant number ..:..... placed
published in Psychological

care-givers for my child. It justwould not be when I see the smile on his face. 
victims' needs; abortion is pre­primary emphasis on their need
Aspects of Abortion6 Dr.

fair for any of us, for them, myself or the I am now a junior in college majoring in sumed to fill their needs. to confront their feelings about
Mahkom was an experienced

baby. I knew that placing my child for paralegal studies. Relinquishing my Kathleen DeZeeuw slates, the pregnancy, including feel­
son rape counselor who, in 1979,
"Having lived through rape, ings ofresentment and hostility
adoption would be the right thing to do, the was the hardest decsion I will ever have to identified 37 pregnant rape vic­and also having mised a child towards the unborn child, the
loving alternative! make but I'm more confident than ever that tims who were treated by a so­
'conceived in rape,' I feel per­primary difficulty they experi­
cial welfare agency. Of these

The adoption procedure I opted for is not it was the right one. While in the hospital I 
sonally insulted and assaulted enced with the rape pregnancy
37, only five chose to have an

your ordinary plan. I chose to do an inde­received a card which read, "Some people every time I hear that abortion was pressure from other people
abortion. Of the 28 who gavependent open adoption. Through this proc­come into our lives, leave footprints on our should be legal because of rape birth, 17 chose adoption and 3 who saw the pregnancy as a blot and incest. I feel that we're to be eliminated. Family and
ess I was able to select from among the pro­hearts, and we are never the same." This is kept the child themselves; for 
being used by pro-abortionists friends just weren't supportive
spective adoptive parents. I had the oppor­so true! the remaining eight, research 
to further the abortion issue, of the woman's choice to bear
was unable to determine where 

tunity to establish a personal relationship Testimony by Lisa 0. of Minnesota. 
even though we've not been the child. 
the child was placed.

with them as well as to develop a lasting (PrinJed with permission) asked to tell our side." Dr. Mahkom also found that, friendship. The more I got to know them the The children conceived in the group who carried their through sexual assault also have pregnancies to term, none, atthe
more excited I was about placing my baby Every year over two million requests lor a voice which deserves to he end of pregnancy, wished she
with this couple. They had somuch love and adoption go unsatisfied. "/ was being sexually 
heard. Julie Makimaa, con­had decided on an abortion. ceived by an act of rape, works attacked, threatened Abortion therefore inhibits the diligently against abortion. She healing to the rape victim and
by him and betrayed 

Ifhe is not alive, believes every life has a value reinforces negative attitudes. beyond measure, a purpose by Mom's silence ... the 
why is he growing? 

whichonly time canreveal. Not Abortion Reinforces 
abortion which was to 

ashamed of her origin, Julie Women's Powerlessness proudly proclaims: '1t doesn't be in 'my best interest' Another example from my
Ifhe is not a human being, 
matter how I began. What mat­book is Vanessa Landry, another 
has not been ...it only 

what kind ofbeing is he? ters is who I will become." rape victim who said, "I didn't 'saved their reputa­really want to have the abortion. Abortion Adds to tions,' solved their I have always been against abor­Ifhe is not a child, the Pain of Rape tion all my life. People think that 
problems and allowed 

Various studies and my own whenever anyone is raped, they
why is he sucking his thumb? 
research indicate that rape and their lives to go have to have an abortion. My incest victims fall into the high social worker just kept telling me
merrily on."

If he is a living, risk category of aborters, and the all kinds of things to encourage existence of rape or incest is me to have the abortion. They
human child, 

actually a contraindication for didn't give me any other option why is it legal to kill him? except to abort 18 week-old baby developing In the womb. (Continued on page 10) 


Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 1995 9 

Human Life Alliance of Minnesota, Inc. (612) 484-1040 

Human Life Alliance of Minnesota, Inc. is a non-profit, non-denominational organization com­mitted to the intrinsic value of human life. HLA is dedicated to advancing true justice by pro­tection of ALL Human Life, whatever the age, race, sex, physical condition, economic status or place of residence (including the womb). HLA provides incentives to action through education, political awareness and promotion of alternatives to violence in order to create a society in which all Human Life is held sacred. 
HLA NEEDS YOUR SUPPORT AND ENCOURAGES YOUR PARTICIPATION! 
Human Life Alliance oF MINNESOTA EDucATioN FUND, INC  3570 Lexington Ave N., Suite 301  
SL Paul, I\UII55126-8059  
(612) 484-1040  
Name:_________________  

Addreu:________________ 
fve enclosed I check for more copies of the HLA supplement! II 
Clly/Stale!Lip:______;__________ _ Number olcopies requ..ted (Cost includes shipping and handli"i) 
Phoae:_________________ 
50-$12.50 200-$40.00 100-$2.5.00 300. $50.00 _ h<•ant to make a contribution to help rurther liLA's pro-lire efforts 150 • $33.00 500 • $75.00 
(Clleck.s mode out to liLA's education fund are tax deductible) 1000 -$130.00 _$25 __ $50 _$100 _other$_ 
_Please let me know how I can help 11et the liLA Supplement on more coll"'le campuses!!! 
Abortion Techniques Described 
Suction-Aspiration: The method of abortion most commonly used for early pregnancies. The abortionist inserts a hollow plastic tube into the dilated uterus. The tube is connected to a powerful suction apparatus. The suction tears the baby's body into pieces. 
Dilitation and curettage (D and C): Similar to the suction procedure except the abortion­ist inserts a tiny hoe-like instrument into the uterus. With this, the abortionist cuts the baby into pieces and scrapes him/her out into a basin. Bleeding is usually profuse. 
Dilitation and eva"cuation (D and E): Used after 12 weeks. A pliers-like instrument is needed because the baby's bones are calcified, as is the skull. The abortionist inserts the instrument into the uterus, seizes a leg or other part of the body and, with a twisting motion, tears it from the baby's body. The spine must be snapped and the skull crushed in order to remove them from the womb. 
Salt poisoning (saline injection): This is used after 16 weeks. A long needle is inserted through the mother's abdomen into the baby's sac. Some fluid is removed and a strong salt solution is injected. The solution is swallowed and "breathed" and slowly poisons the baby. He/she kicks and jerks violently as he/she is literally being burned alive. 
Hysterotomy or Caesarean Section: Used mainly in the last three months of pregnancy, the womb is entered by surgery through the wall of the abdomen. The tiny baby is removed and allowed to die by neglect or direct act. 
Prostaglandin chemical abortion: This form ofabortion uses chemicals, developed by the Up john Pharmaceutical Co., which cause the uterus to contract intensely, pushing out the developing baby. In one article, one of the complications listed with this method was "live birth." In fact, the two most "dreaded" complications for an abortionist are a dead mother or a live baby. 
Dilatation and Extraction (D and X) Late Term Abortions (The authenticity of the following information has been confirmed in an article in the American Medical Association's Newsletter, American Medical News, in the July 5, 1993 edition). 
At a September13-14, 1992 meeting of the National Abortion Federation, a trade association of abortion providers, an Ohio abortionist, Dr. Martin Haskell, described this new technique he has perfected. Unlike the D & E procedure whereby the preborn child is dismembered inside the mother's womb, with the D & X method the preborn baby is alive until the end of the procedure when the child is killed by suctioning the brain tissue through a hole at the base of the skull while the baby's head is still inside the uterus. Then the intact aborted child, minus brain content, is removed from the womb. 
According to the paper presented by Dr. Haskell the procedure takes three days and begins with "dilation (and) MORE DILATION." The cervix is initially dilated to 9-11 mm. with mechanical dilators, in order to accommodate the placement of five to seven synthetic laminaria, Dilapan hydroscopic dilators, which remain in place overnight. 
The following morning the Dilapan are removed and replaced with a second insertion of 15 to 25 dilators, again left overnight. The Dilapan process may cause severe cramping. 
On the third day, after removing the dilators, the abortionist ruptures the membranes, if this has not already happened, and drains the amniotic fluid. The abortionist places an ultrasound transducer on the mother's abdomen and locates the child's legs and feet. 
The abortionist then uses a large forceps to grasp one of the baby's legs. He pulls firmly, forcing the child into a feet-down position. He continues pulling until the baby's leg is drawn into the birth canal. 
Next. using his hands instead of forceps, the abortionist delivers the baby's body in a manner similar to a breech birth. First, the child's other leg is delivered, followed by the torso, shoulders, and arms. The baby's head "usually" remains inside the uterus. 
The abortionist then performs the last step which Dr. Haskell calls "fetal skull decompres­sion." Using blunt-tipped surgical scissors in a closed position, he pierces the child's head at the base of the skull. He then forces the scissors open to enlarge the skull opening. 
Removing the scissors, the abortionist inserts a suction catheter into the wound and vacuums out the child's brain tissue (in Dr. Haskell's words, "evacuates the skull contents") causing the baby's death. With the skull emptied ofbrains, it collapses and he then "applies traction to the (dead) fetus removing it completely from the patient." 
Dr. Haskell has performed over 700 of these abortions on preborn babies as old as 26 weeks. Dr. Haskell refers to another abortionist, Dr. James McMahon of McMahon Med. Center and Eve Surgical Centers in Los Angeles and Tarzama, CA, who not only also uses this technique but sometimes uses it to abort preborn children up to 32 weeks "or more." 
Barbara Radford, Executive Director of the National Abortion Federation said of this late-term abortion technique, in a 6/18/93 letter to NAF members, "Don't apologize: this is a legal abortion procedure." 
10 1995 Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 
ttttttttttt American War Casualties ttttttttttt 
Each cross-mark represents 50,000 people killed. 1he war casualties represent all American combat-related deaths. 
Revolutioncar¥ War  (15.314)  1  
Civil WGI"  (498.331)  tttttttttt  
Wortd WGI" I World WGI" n  (116.708) (407.316)  ttt tttttttt'  
Korean War  (54.146)  t·  
V'•tncam War  (58.655)  t·  
G.-War  (193)  
WGI" On 1he Unborn  (32.000.000)  
ttttttttt  

ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttllllllllllllllll II II lltttt ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttllllll II lllllltttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt tttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt ttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt 
Rape and Incest (Continued from page 8) 
They said I wasjustanothermi­nority bringing a child into the world and there were too many already.'" Here is a woman who is being victimized not only because she is arape victim, but also because she is black and a minority and she has a low income. That is one of the stories that upsets me the most. 
Childbirth can be a victory. For the majority ofpregnant rape victims who wisely choose to forego abortion, childbirth is the choice of triumph over rape. It is a choice that says, "RapewiUnotdictate my life." It aUows them to show their own courage and generosity. When the need of pregnant rape victims is carefully exam­ined, ilcan be shown the abor­tion is not necessary and in­deed is very likely to hinder recovery by increasingfeelings of guill, shame and low self­esteem. 
Like Incest, Abortion Promotes Silence 
Incest victims face similar problems. Incest is a very complex issue and it is hard to say much in avery short period of time, but the vast majority of incest victims wantto carry their pregnancy to term. These are young girls for whom preg­nancy is a way to break out of an incestuous relationship with their father, whom they may love despite their confusion and resentment about the way they have been used as sexual ob­jects. Since they still love the father, having the child can not only help expose the incestu­ous relationship but also give hope of beginning a truly lov­ing relationship. 
In studies of incest victims, thevastmajoritychoosetocarry the pregnancy to term.8 Those in the minority who have an abortion do so only under pres­sure from their parents to con­ceal theincestuous relationship. Because incest is a fanilly pa­thology that involves father, mother and daughter, all are in­volved in a conspiracy of si­lence.9 
I interviewed Edith Young, now 38 years old, who was a rape and incest victim at 12 years of age. To cover up the incident, her parents procured an abortion for her without tell­ing her what was to happen. The emotional and physical scars ofincest and abortion still last to this day. She said, "I was being sexually attacked, threat­ened by him and betrayed by Mom's silence...the abortion which was to be in 'my best interest' has not been...it only 'saved their reputations,' solved theirproblems and allowed their lives to go merrily on.10 
Pro-life persons don't have any reason to be ashamed to defend a pro-life view in the case of rape or incest. The ones who need to be ashamed are the pro-abortionists who have been exploiting the prob­lems of rape and incest vic­tims, confusing the public and promoting abortion for their own social engineering goals. 
To my knowledge, pro-abor­tionists have never yet brought together a group of rape and incest victims who carried their pregnancies to term who said, "Oh, that was the worst thing I ever did. Why didn't some­body give me an abortion when I needed it?" 

We, on the other hand, can produce women who took the advice of the pro-abortionists, had the abortion and now say, "Tins abortion ruined my life. What were you telling me?" We need to join rape and incest victims in demanding that pro­abortionists Stop exploiting the pain ofinnocent women's prob­lems for their ownpoliticalends. 
1Pregnancy and Sexual Assault. Sandra Mahkom, in The Psy­chologicaJAspectsof Abortion, ed. Mall and Watts (1979), pp.53-72. 
2Aborted Women: Silent No more. David C. Reardon (1987), pp. 206-210. 
3 &4Text omitted. 
50utcome Following Thera­peutic Abortion. Payne et al., Arch. Gen. Psychiatry 33:725­733 (June 1976).
6Supra, note 1. 7Supra, note 2, pp. 276-278. 8The Consequences of Incest: 
Giving and Taking Life, Maloof, in The Psychological Aspects of Abortion, ed. Mall and Watts (1979), pp. 73-110.
9Father-Daughter Incest ­Treatment of the Family.Kennedy, Laval Medical 4il:946-950 (1969).
10Supra, note 2, pp. 212-218. 
David C. Reardon is Director of the Elliot Institute for Social Sciences Research and author of the book "Aborted Women: Silent No More" (1987). For a copy of Post-abortion Review Newsletter, write to: P.O. Box 9079, Springfield, IL 62791. The majority of this article appeared in Association for Interdisciplinary Research Newsletter, Vol2, Fall1988 
Carol Everett was involved in the abortion industry in the Dallas/Ft. Worth, Texas, area from 1977 until 1983. As director offour clinics, owner of two, Ms. Everett was respon­sible for the clinics' daily operation. Everett, who had an abortion soon after it became legal in 1973, now speaks out on ... 
"What I Saw in the Abortion Industry" 
Q 
What is the governing force behind the abortion industry? A. Money. It is a very lucrative business. It is the largest unregulated indus­try in our nation. Most of the clinics are run in chains because it is so profitable. 
Q 
How much money were you making in the abortion industry before you quit? A. I was getting a commission of $25.00 on every abortion I "sold". In 1983, the year I got out, I would have pocketed approxi­mately $250,000. But, in 1984 we expected to be operating five clinics, terminating about 40,000 pregnancies, and with that projection I planned to net $1 million. Money, Money, Money-that's where my heart was. 
Q 
Why do you refer to "selling" abortions? A. The product, abortion, is skill­fully marketed and sold to the woman at the crisis time in her life. She buys the product, finds it defective and wants to return it for a refund. But, it's too late. Her baby is dead. 
Q 
In what way is the woman deceived? A. In two ways -the clinic per­sonnel and the marketers must deny the per­sonhood of the child and the pain caused by the procedure. Every woman has two ques­tions, "Is it a baby?" and "Does it hurt?" The abortionistmustanswer"NO:' He/shemust lie to secure the consent of the woman and the collection ofthe clinic's fee. The women were told that we were dealing with a "prod­uct of conception" or a "glob of tissue:' They were told that there would be only slight cramping, whereas, in reality, an abortion is excruciatingly painful. 
Q 
What type or counseling was offered at the clinics? A. In the clinics in which I was involved we didn't do any real counseling. We answered only the questions the woman asked and tried not to "rock the boat." We did not discuss alternatives to abortion un­less the woman forced us to. We sold abor­
~­
Q 
What method or abortion did your clinics use? A. For the most part, the abortion industry stopped using saline and prostaglandin procedures because of the number of live births. A live birth means you have to let the baby die, or dispose of it in some distasteful way. Most second and third trimester abortionists use the D & E 

Carol Everett 
Q 
How did you dispose or an aborted baby? A. In our clinics, we put them down the garbage disposal. We used the heavy duty model. Some second and third trimester babies' muscle structure is so strong that the baby will not come apart, so they must be disposed of through trash recep­tacles. 
Q 
Abortion is supposed to be a "safe" experience. What complications did you witness? A. We were doing a one-day traumatic dilation, which has a higher rate of compli­cation. In the last 18 months I was in the business, we were completing over 500abor­tions monthly and killing or maiming one woman out of 500. Common complications that take place are perforations or tears in the uterus. Many of those result in hysterecto­mies. The doctor might cut or harm the urinary tract, which then requires surgical repair. A complication that is rarely publi­cized is the one in which the doctor perfo­rates the uterus and pulls the bowels through the vagina, resulting in colostomy. Some of those can be reversed, some must live with the colostomy for the remainder of their lives. 
Q 
How did you keep these complications and deaths from the public? A. The woman would be loaded into my car (an ambulance outside an abortion clinic is terrible advertising) and transported to a hospital that would protect the doctor and the abortion clinic's reputation. The con­cern is not with the patient only in keeping an unblemished reputation. You have a built-in cover-up with the patients' family. They are dealing with their guilt and emotions over the situation and do not want to deal with the added pressure ofexposing the truth through the media. 
Q 
Why did you get out of the abortion business? A. Two things came into play at about the same time. I experienced a pro­foundly religious transformation--a conver­sion. At about the time I was having second 

{dilation and evacuation) method. The thoughts a Dallas television station did an
Planned Parenthood Ignores Own Advice 

abortionist uses large forceps to crush the expose disclosing the abortions performed 
·-' 
baby inside the mother's uterus and remove at my clinic on non-pregnant women-all In 1963, a Planned Parenthood publication, Plan Your Children For Health and Happiness, it in pieces. The side effects of live births for money! I finally realized, "We weren't stated: "An abortion kills the life of a baby after it has begun. It is dangerous to your life and and the mother going through labor are helping women-we were destroying them health." Yet Planned Parenthood now operates the nation's largest number of abortion mills. 
avoided. But it is a horrible procedure in -and their children." By then my transfor­Consider this quote taken from New Dimensions magazine (Sept/Oct1991, p. 22): "Planned which the baby must be re-constructed out­mation was complete and I knew that I not 
Parenthood recently acknowledged what the anti-abortion camp has been saying for years: 9 out of 10 women who have 'safe and legal' abortions suffer from abortion-induced trauma." 
side the uterus to be certain all the parts have only had to stop being involved with abor­been removed. tions but I had to help promote the truth. 
1995 11

Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 
ABORTION: 
Possible Effects on Your Body 
Immediate 
•Intense 
pain •Punctured uterus •Excessive bleeding 

•Infection 
•Parts of baby left inside •Shock/Coma 


•Damage to other organs •Death 
Later 

•Inability 
to become pregnant again •Miscarriage/Stillbirths •Tubal Preganancies 

•Premature births •Pelvic inflammatory disease 


•Hysterectomy 
•Two to Four times Higher Risk of Developing Breast Cancer 


"People do not understand that there are thousands ofserious physical complications from abortion every year in this country." Dr. Bernard Nathanson, OB-GYN, 
"The inherent risk ofabortion is not fully appreciated, both by many in the profession and certainly not by the public." The American Colleges of Obstetrics and Gynecology. 
Possible Effects on Your Emotions 
The Most Common 
•Guilt •Desire to become pregnant again 

•Depression/Crying •Inability to forgive yourself •Intense grief/sadness 
•Anger/Rage •Emotional numbness 
•Sexual problems •Lowered self-esteem 
•Nightmares •Anorexia or other eating disorders 
•Drug or alcohol abuse •Suicidal urges 

"Abortion has a painful aftermath, regardless ofthe woman's religious beliefs, or how positive she may have felt beforehand about her decision to abort." Vincent Rue, Ph.D, Psychologist. 
Post Abortion Syndrome 
(Women suffering mental and emotional anguish following an abortion) 
Dr. Anne Speckhard, Ph.D, in her study on Post Abortion Syndrome, found the following effects on women. 
Events Related to Abortion 

• 
23% had hallucinations related to the abortion 

• 
35% perceived visitation from the aborted child 

• 
54% had nightmares related to the abortion 

• 
69% experienced feelings of "craziness" 

• 
73% had flashbacks of abortion experience 

• 
81% had a preoccupation with the aborted child 


Most Common Behavioral Problems After Abortion 
• 
61% increased their use of alcohol 

• 
65% had thoughts of suicide 

• 
69% were sexually inhibited 

• 
73% had flashbacks of the abortion 


a 
77% experienced an inability to communicate 
• 81% experienced frequent crying 
Problems 000 after an abortion? MEDICAL • LEGAL • EMOTIONAL HELP 
CALL 1-800-634-2224 AMERICAN RIGHTS COALITION or 1-800-962-2319 LEGAL ACTION FOR WOMEN Additional Resources listed on Page 5 
"Tim, I think I'm pregnant." It was New Year's Eve, 1973. My boyfriend sighed deeply, his gaze remaining fixed on the TV. "Just have your period, all right?" he mut­tered. I felt a sour lump in the back of my throat. My breasts were tender. Yes, I was pregnant, and I was scared! 
I knew from hard experience how tough it was raising a child as a single mother. I already had a 2-year old daughter, Jennifer, from an earlier unsuccessful marriage. We lived in the inner city and could barely make ends meet. Tim's non-committal response to my distress when the pregnancy was con­fmned, and his move to Chicago, 400 miles away. left me despondent and leaning more and more toward abortion as the "easy way out." I was already struggling financially with one child. How could I raise two? 
I drove to Chicago to try to convince Tim to marry me. He was deaf to my pleas and unmoved by my tears. Believing I had no viable alternative, I convinced him to give me money for an abonion. 
As I sat in the abonion clinic waiting my tum, everything around me seemed like a nightmare. Women lounged on garishly printed couches as rock music played on the intercom. Everything seemed so casual, and there I was, feeling like I wanted to die . 
I've been there too! 
When the nurse called my name, I changed my mind, broke into tears, and left. 
Still, there was no one I could tum to. Back at the University, I often cried myself to sleep. I secretly wished for a miscarriage. 
I decided to confide in a couple of college professors. They collected money to fly me back to Chicago to have an abonion. Now I was determined, even obligated, to go through with it. Still, I agonized! 
Ironically, that semester, I was taking a class in fetal development. I knew there was a baby in my womb with her heart beating and her own circulatory system. Those pictures flashed in my mind as I sat there, clad in a paper gown and paper slippers. 
I was summoned to the room where the abortions are performed. I could hear a woman sobbing hysterically in the recovery room. It reminded me of someone who had witnessed the death ofa loved one in a fatal accident. I'll never forget it. 
With my feet in the stirrups I waited as the nurses were setting up the equipment. As the doctor was examining me, before the abor­tion, he suddenly stopped and said to the nurse, " Get her out of here. She's too far along." Relief instantly washed over me! How odd! I had thought I wanted an abor­tion but now felt instantly relieved to know I was still pregnant. 
I decided to use every ounce ofcourage I could muster to deal with my pregnancy and become a survivor. My ambivalence turned into love and compassion for my unborn child. When my beautiful daughter was born, I named her Melanie. 
It took energy and creativity to support the three of us. My two daughters inspired me to do great things. They have not stood in the way of my career. They have only enhanced it. I finished my Bachelor's de­gree; then I went on to get my Master's and Ph.D. Besides being a proud mother, I am happily married, a published author, a moti­vational speaker for one ofthe largest public seminar companies in the U.S. and a part­time musician. 
I have learned that life is really about developing character. When we endure something tough, our character and self­esteem are strengthened. At least a dozen women who have confessed to me that they've had abortions have discovered that the "easy way out" is just an illusion. Some of them are in abusive relationships. Some are on anti-depressants. Others just seem detached from life. Some sadly remember their aborted child's "would be" birthday each year. 
-
If you are in a crisis pregnancy, I cannot promise that it will be easy. I can only promise that the anguish will pass and there are people who will help you through this trying time. (Refer to pg. 5) As someone who has "been there" I understand the an­guish you are experiencing. One day you will look back on the birth ofyour child, and say, as I do of Melanie's, "I did the right thing. And I feel proud." 
Sincerely, with love, Dr. Angela V. Woodhull Gainesville, Florida 


.... 
Angela Woodhull, Ph.D. 
Dr. Woodhull can be reached through Human Life Alliance 612-484-1040. 

12 1995 Human Ufe Alliance Advertising Supplement 
How Developed Is Your Baby? 

Baby at Approximately Six Weeks 
This remarkable photograph of a tiny pre­born baby in his unruptured amniotic sac was taken after surgery (for a tubal preg­nancy) at the University of Minnesota by medical photographer, Robert Wolfe, in 1972. This picture demonstrates the re­markable early development of a prebom baby at only six weeks after conception. 
Consider This Testimony 

"Eleven years ago while giving an anes­thetic for a ruptured ectopic pregnancy (at 8 weeks gestation). I was handed what I believe was the smallest living human ever seen. The embryonic sac was intact and transparent Within the sac was a tiny human male swimming extremely vigorously in the amniotic fluid, while attached to the wall by the umbilical cord. This tiny human was perfectly developed, with long, tapering fmgers, feet and toes. It was almost trans­parent. as regards the skin, and the delicate 
-
arteries and veins were prominent to the ends of the fingers. ''The baby was extremely alive and swam about the sac approximately one time per 
Feet of Baby at Ten Weeks 
Dr. Russell Sacco ofOregon took this picture of the per­fectly formed feet of a tO­week-old aborted baby wait­ing for disposal in a pathologist'slaboratory. The feet in the picture are held between the doctor's thumb and forefinger. 
second, with a natural swimmer's stroke. This tiny human did not look at all like the photos and drawings and models of 'em­bryos' which I had seen, nor did it look like a few embryos I have been able to observe since then, obviously because this one was alive! 
"When the sac was opened, the tiny human immediately lost his life and took on the appearance of what is accepted as the ap­pearance of an embryo at this stage of life (with blunt extremities etc.)." 
Statement by Paul E. Rockwell, M.D., anesthesiologist, as quoted by Dr. and Mrs. 
J.C. Willke in Handbook on Abortion. 
Don't Make My Mistakes 

Some people say that abortion is "an informed decision between a woman and her physician." You hear that a lot. But the fact is that most women never meet the abortionist until they are on the table, as happened in my case. 

I was 18 years old when I got pregnant. I wasn't serious about my boyfriend. It was a casual relationship. Since I had already enlisted in the Air Force, I thought I had to have an abortion in order to make something out ofmy life. 
My best friend drove me to the abortion clinic. I was therefor about four hours. It was like an assembly line. When the ultrasound was being done I asked to see it. But this wasn't allowed (so much for "an informed decision"). Then I asked how far along I was. I was told I was nine­and-a-half weeks pregnant. That hit me hard. I knew then that my baby was further developed than I had thought. I started doubting, and wanted to talk to my friend. But I wasn't allowed to do that either. 
When it was my turn the nurse told me that I was going to feel some discomfort, like strong menstrual cramps. The truth is that the abortion was more pain than I've everfelt in my life. It felt like my insides were literally being sucked out ofmy body. Afterwards I went into shock! 
After the abortion, I tried to make up for the abortion by trying to get pregnant again. I wanted my baby back. I never got pregnant again. I don't know ifI can ever have another baby. I named my baby. I found out later that this is part ofthe grieving process. 
I ended up in the hospital with bulimia two-and-one-half years later. I felt that no one had punished mefor what I had done so I was punishing myself I became obsessed with women who were pregnant, with women who would talk about their pregnancy. My life was in shambles! I was suffering from post-abortion trauma. 
When I was 21 years old God brought me help through a woman who was involved in pro-life activism. She helped me a lot. I went through a post-abortion counseling program called "Conquerors." God not only forgave me, He challenged me to help others. I answered the challenge! 
I started picketing and sidewalk counseling. There is a healing process that comes from getting involved in the pro-life movement. I talk to youth groups and students about abstinence and I share my testimony. To them, and to you, I plead, "Please don't make the same mistakes I did." 
~ 
See pages S & 8 for alternatives to abortion! 


... 
Human Life Alliance of Minnesota, Inc. 
3570 Lexington Avenue Nonh, Suite 205 ·St. Paul, MN 55126 • (612) 484-1040 




