
Thursday, October 26, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 43 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bill's cuts threaten student loans Office created 
By KRISTI KOLSKI Assistant News Editor 
Budget cuts are· threatening many social welfare programs and may now bt~ threatening the students of Notre Dame. The Labor and Human He­sourees Heconciliation Bill. to be voted on today or Friday by the Senate, will cut $10.8 billion from stu­dent loan programs over the next seven years if passed. 
Student Government Chief Counsel Tom Matzzie has spearheaded efforts by the Notre Dame community to lobby against this bill. 
"Student Government feels that this is an important issue here and at other places of higher education," said Matzzie. "Because of this we are pouring a great deal of effort into this issue." 
Student Body President Jonathan Patrick has written a letter to bishops and eardinals on behalf of Notre Dam11 students. The organization hopes to garner support from the chureh offieials in innuencing nine "swing" senators to vote against this bill. 
"W11 are faxing letters to the bishops and eardinals in those states and ask­ing them to eall the senators in hopes of eonvincing them to vote in opposi­

Proposed Cuts on the Labor and Human Resources Reconciliation Bill 
• 
Elimination of the 6 month interest free grace period 

•Increased 
interest rates for loans to parents 

• 
The New .85o/o Tax on Student Loans 

• 
Reductions in Pell Grant funding 

• 
Elimination of capital contributions to Perkins Loans 



to help students with disabilities 
By AMY SCHMIDT Assistant News Editor 
Working to ensure that students with impair­ments have access to campus-wide facilities, the University has created the Office for Students with Disabilities (OSD), located in 109 Badin Hall. 
According to Scott Howland, coordinator of the OSD, the office provides a variety of cen­tralized services for students with a wide range of disabilities. 
"Prior to the establishment of this office, Notre Dame was providing some of the services we're offering, but it was through a number of different people," said Howland. 
"What we are doing is centralizing the ser­vices that already were in place and expanding to meet the needs of all our students with dis­abilities." 
Howland himself is not new to disability ser­vices. He has served in similar positions for six years at Saint Ambrose University in Davenport, Iowa, and hopes his experience will benefit the Notre Dame community. 
"It (the OSD) is a more organized process than the university had before," Howland said. 

university would be forced to reim­about 30 percent. We will either have "One hundred percent of my time is dedicated 
tion to the cuts," said Matzzie. 

burse the government approximately to cut a third of the students receiving to these services." 
Aceording to Joseph Russo, director 

$255,000 a year. "We would have to loans or a portion of the money they The OSD provides a broad range of services 
of Finaneial Aid at Notre Dame, one of 

pass the cost on to students, possibly can receive," said Russo. for students, including collaboration with other 
tho cuts of greatest concern is the 

by raising tuition," said Russo. University President Father Edward University departments to provide accessible 
proposed 0.85 percent tax on student 

A second area of concern is the Malloy has echoed concerns about the housing and referral for diagnoses of learning
loans. Notre Dame eurrently offers 

elimination of capital contributions to proposed legislation. In an ov-ed ati.i-disabilities. The services are basically divided 
student loans at the combined cost of 

Perkins Loans. "The cost of this tax
$30 million. Under this new law, the see LOANS/ page 6 see OSD/ page 4 
would reduce our ability to lend by 


Ad Hoc Committee Shields 'makes' a president 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 

holds open session 
Assistant News Editor 

By DAVE TYLER "Its necessary to hear from Outlining the aspects of all sides of the student body on America's political history to
News E_:::di_:::to.:..._r-------­this issue," she said. dictate the winner of the next The Oflke of Student Affairs' The Ad Iloc Committee was presidential election, syndi­Ad lloe Committee on Gay and created by Vice-President for cated political columnist and Lm;bian Student Needs held an Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara television commentator Mark optm listnning session for gay, in the wake of her decision to Shields spoke yesterday about lesbian, and hist~xual students reject a Campus Life Council "The Making of the President ­last night at th11 University (CLC) resolution calling for the 1996." Counseling Center. While par­University to officially recog­"All of us have a specific re­ticipants in the meeting agreed nize the organization Gays and sponsibility to debate, decide to knep the details of their dis­Lesbians at Notre Dame and and determine what we want" eussion privatA, they eharacter­Saint Mary's (GLND/SMC). In in a president, Shields said in ized the meeting as a necessary her response to that resolution, describing the present state of stnp as Notre Dame attempts to O'Hara charged the committee U.S. politics. This responsibility address the needs of its gay with "advising ... on how we can rests on our commitment to fu­and IBshian students. do a better job of meeting the ture generations, he explained, Orw m!leting attendee, who needs of our gay and lesbian because "each of us has drunk asked to rl\lnain anonymous, students." from wells that we did not dig. said thH meeting was a "posi­Eaeh of us has been warmed by tiVI' session." fires we did not build." 
see AD HOC/ page 6 
Shields, who graduated from Notre Dame with a degree in philosophy in 1959, has been a

Speak-out to examine 
featured political analyst for the past eight years on what was formerly called "The Mac­The Observer/Damian Glanglacomo

campus homosexuality 
Media personality Mark Shields addressed students yesterday about the 1996 Presidential elections, and the influences governing the deci­
NeiVLehrer News Hour." Dur­
ing his first six years on the 

By PATTI CARSON Bill Storey, who was active in sions of the voters. 
PBS program, Shields was Saini Mary's Ediror the formatio·n of GLND/SMC, broadly-based parties. because leaving a familiar
teamed with David Gergen on 

Notre Dame student Tony "We are pragmatic people, neighborhood and traveling to
the popular segment "Gergen & 

At lnast peopl11 are talking Silva, and a Saint Mary's alum­not ideological people," he said, an unfamiliar land is "an act of
Shields," where they repre­about it now. Openly. na. The speakout will be simi­explaining that "ideology is not enormous courage."
sented the political left and 

And they'll talk more about lar to the one that GLND/SMC absent from American politics -In recent years, however,
right, respectively. However,

thn issue of homosexuality at a held recently in Pangborn. it's just not very successful." Shields feels this positivism
Gergen left the show to become 

speak-out called "Telling Our Storey, Professor of theology Americans have a "funda­may have been replaced by
Clinton's communications di­


Stories: A Step Towards Hight (Emeritus) at Notre Dame, is mental optimism. We are the "the sense that things are not
rector in the spring of 1993. 

Htdations" tonight at 7 p.m. in slated to speak first, giving a most optimistic people because getting better." He attributes
In describing American poli­

the Dalloway's Clubhouse. In brief overview of the gay and we are an immigrant people," this feeling to "the decline of
tics in 1995, Shields said one 

honor of National Gay I lis tory lesbian movement, comparing Shields commented, citing that the middle class." 
must ask "how is [American

Month, People in Support it to the blaek civil rights 38 million people have come to A "blue collar worker" can no
government] different from any

(l'inSl is sponsoring the event. movement. He will draw con­America from over 100 coun­longer send his kids to college
other democracy on the plan­

Tlw forum will be divided clusions about Notre Dame and tries speaking 100 different and have enough money to go
et?" 

into thre11 distinct segments; Saint Mary's roles as a part of languages. This is "a statement
Answering this question,

primary speak11rs will include of profound optimism," he said,
Shields stated, "We have two

see PINS/ page 4 see SHIELDS/ page 4 
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, October 26, 1995 


Four Eyes Only 
"Guys don't make passes at girls who wear Peggy Lenczewski glasses." SainrMary's News Editor 
This thought ran through my head every day, beginning in fifth grade when I donned spectacles for the first time. There are few worse punishments for eleven year old girls than to wake up myopic, needing glasses. 
They just sat there on my face, which I could now see clearly. 
I looked like a librarian. An eleven year old masquerading as a thirty-five year old librarian. 
I was less than thrilled. 

How was I supposed to run track, play soft­ball, or play football with my brother? I had believed my mom when she assured me I was a pretty girl. But that librarian in the mirror was not pretty. A cruel freak of nature, I needed them all the time. The first thing I did every morning was put my glasses on, and they were the last thing off every night. I was chained to them. 
Being young, I got over it. To make a long story short, I did play softball, and I did run track. I even had quite a few dates in high school. I got a boyfriend. I still saw a librar­ian in the mirror, but she was a cool librari­an, and that was enough for me. 
But I woke up one morning last spring, and realized it had been a couple years since I'd seen my face clearly, without glasses on it. I had literally no idea what I looked like with­out glasses. Getting really close to a mirror doesn't count: I mean, your nose gets all huge, you tip your head at all sorts of crazy angles, and your pores look like black holes. Besides, who actually looks at you from that distance? Like the real world looks at you that closely. 
So I begged my parents for contact lenses. I explained that I stepped on my retainers five years ago, and since that unfortunate inci­dent, I had become responsible. I was ready to shed the specs. 
So I got contacts. 

After the initial grossness of having to 
touch a living human eyeball, and the weird­
ness of that eyeball being in my head, I got 
used to them. It was nice seeing my face. I 
liked what I looked like minus the glasses. 
Boy has my life changed. 
As for that cliche at the beginning of this 
column-it's true. Man has not moved 
beyond hitting on pretty girls, which is some­
thing I'm still trying to get used to. I look in 
the mirror, I still see the librarian; I like her 
a lot, but librarians aren't exactly the com­
mon object of mass lust. 

So I'm wondering what guys see now when 
they look at me. They may not see glasses, 
but they're still not seeing the true me. 
I got used to wearing glasses, and I'll tell 
you all a secret since you're reading my col­
umn. There are few things that are more 
intimate or sweeter than a guy removing a 
girl's glasses before he kisses her. It's a veil 
being removed, a deepening sense of trust. 
My glasses came off, I went blind. I'm only 
going to let that happen around people I 
really trust. 

Now I have contacts, more guys notice me 
now, and they all missed their chance to take 
off my glasses. 

I'm still somewhat wary of guys who show 
casual interest in me now, who saunter up to 
me at parties and begin the typical pre-hook­
ing up small talk. Because they really don't 
know that I actually wear glasses. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


News  Viewpoint  
Hearher Cocks  Michael O'Hara  
Corrine Doran  Production  
Sports  Jackie Moser  
Mike Day  He~rher Dominique  
Graphics  Lab Tech  
Brian Blank  Mike Hungeling  

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Train hits school bus in Chicago suburb; four dead 
FOX RNER GROVE, Ill. 

A suburban commuter train slammed into a school bus at a crossing today. killing at least four students and injuring 
26. The bus was torn apart by the impact as the youngsters screamed. "You could see the terror in their eyes," said eyewit­ness Coreen Bachinsky. "You could hear the metal, the glass flying, the screams. It was very, very scary." There were four confirmed dead in the morgue, according to McHenry County coroner's aide Sharon Schroeder. Names were not released pend­ing notification of their relatives. The injured, many in serious or critical condi­tion, were taken to six hospitals, as far as 30 miles from the crash scene. Witnesses said the bus ferrying students to Cary-L..-~~='---"'-'-~~-'---"-A----'P 
Grove High School in Cary was waiting for a red light with the rear portion still on the tracks when struck by the Chicago-bound train. The impact spun the bus around 180 degrees, separating the yellow body of the bus from the chassis. "From then on out, all you heard was screaming," said Andrea Arens, 19, another witness who was waiting for another commuter train. Jim Homola, a carpenter driving his children to school, was stopped behind the bus when it was struck. "We started screaming, 'Go! Go!"' he said. "It was over in a matter of seconds." Homola said he ran to the scene and crossing was guarded by a gate. bells, flashing lights and signs but there was little space between the stoplight and the tracks. Metra operates Chicago's suburban com­muter trains. Metra spokesman Chris Knapton said the crossing was guarded by a gate, bells, flashing lights and signs but there was little space between the stoplight and the tracks. Metra operates Chicago's suburban com­muter trains. Knapton said the train was going around 50 mph, well under the speed limit for that stretch of track, but the engineer was unable to stop in time. 
First Lady's phone records released 
WASHINGTON 

Shortly after learning of Vincent Foster's suicide in 1993, Hillary Rodham Clinton telephoned Hollywood producer Harry Thomason, a friend involved in the White House travel office affair that deeply troubled Foster during his final days. Thomason's lawyer says there was nothing sinister about the call, but the Republican 


chairman of the Senate Whitewater Committee is ques­tioning why it took the White House more than two years to disclose it. The call was on Mrs. Clinton's personal telephone records, which the White House released to The Associated Press on Tuesday. The Committee, which sought the phone records, is also trying to determine whether Mrs. Clinton or two of her top advisers played any role in the decision by presidential aides to keep police away from Foster's documents. At the same time, the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee has investigated what role, if any, Thomason and Mrs. Clinton played in the decision to fire seven longtime employees of the White House travel office. 
Man dies in car unnoticed 
ARLINGTON 

A man lay sprawled half in and half out of the back seat of his car, his legs on the curb, and hours passed before any of the bustling passersby noticed he was dead. Richard Niner, 65, suffered a heart attack in his 1968 Ford station wagon the afternoon of Oct. 10 in a busy dis­trict of office towers and high-rise apartments less than a block from police headquarters. "He was out there for four hours before someone walked a half-block to the po­lice station to report it," one of Niner's 10 children, Timothy, said Wednesday. No one knows exactly how long Niner lay there, or exactly when he died. He'd left his lawyer's office and gotten into his car, but never made it to his next stop, a nearby bank. He was found clutching deposit slips. While thousands of cars pass nearby on a typical afternoon, the street where Niner died carries only local traffic. Anyone who noticed Niner probably thought he was asleep, his son said. 


he told kids in the bus not to move the injured. The bus driver "was in hysterics," he said. School officials said the bus can carries about 70 passengers and that per­haps 30 were inside when the crash occurred. Two victims, both in critical con­dition, were airlifted to hospitals close to Chicago, one nearly 30 miles away. Three other hospitals closer to the site reported treating a total of 24 other victims, at least two in critical condition. Hours later, the body of the bus lay about 10 feet from the wheels and chassis, with the steering wheel sticking up in the air. Red plastic sheets were draped over half of the bus' body. Two helicopters hovered overhead, and an ambulance. a fire truck and at least 10 police cars surrounded the accident site. Metra spokesman Chris Knapton said the 
Irish fan sues over tattoo typo 
NEWARK 
Dan O'Connor is fighing mad. Not "fighting." "Fighing." The Notre Dame fan went to a tattoo parlor in August for a permanent symbol of his allegiance to the school's Fighting Irish-a $125 drawing of the universi­ty's leprechaun mascot. But when O'Connor took the bandages off, his girlfriend began laughing. The inscrip­tion read: Fighing Irish. "I was irate, and for a minute or two after I cooled down I kind of giggled," he said. "But I can't just live with this. You're not talking about a dented car where you can get another one ... you're talking about flesh." On Monday, the 22-year-old from Lodi sued the Tattoo Shoppe in Carlstadt seeking unspecified dam­ages. O'Connor said he was humiliated by the typo. His friends call him "Fighing." And even his girlfriend mocks the dropped "t." There was no comment Wednesday from the parlor. A man who answered the phone would not identify the owner, and the owner did not return a call. O'Connor said the owner offered to squeeze a "t" into "Fighing," but he declined. O'Connor's lawyer, Marc Chase, said it would cost about $700 for a laser proce­dure to remove the tattoo. O'Connor also wants compen­sation for pain and suffering. 
Man relieves himself on food cart 
NEW YORK 
An investment banker is accused of assaulting a flight attendant and defecating on a food-service cart during a drunken rampage on a United Airlines flight. Gerard Finneran, 58, managing director of the Trust Company of the West, pleaded innocent Monday to federal charges of assaulting and intimidating an attendant and interfering with a flight crew. He was freed on $100,000 bail. Federal authorities said the Connecticut executive start­ed pouring drinks on himself during a Buenos Aires-to­New York flight that began Friday. When flight atten­dants tried to cut him off, he told one attendant he would "bust (his) ass," according to court papers. He allegedly shoved an attendant into a seat. Later, Finneran was spotted with his pants down, defecating on the food cart, authorities said. He used linen napkins as toilet paper. John Finnegan, Finneran's lawyer, said his client "vigor­ously denies the allegations." 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 26. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vta Assocsated Prsss 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Via Associated Pre;;s GraphlcsNst 01995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Atlanta  72  59  Dallas  80  60  Milwaukee  56  48  
Baltimore  68  50  Dayton  63  49  Philadelphia  69  51  
Boston  63  47  Denver  66  35  Phoenix  88  58  
Calgary·  50  25  High River  48  22  St. Louis  63  53  
Chicago  56  48  Las Vegas  82  54  Yonkers, N.Y.69  50  


Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
~----------------------------------------------------------~~---­
• News ANALYSIS 
UN meets important goals 
By JAMIE HEISLER Assistant News Editor 
The role of the United Nations has changed dramati­cally since its creation fifty years ago, according to Government Professor Hobert .Johansen. As world leaders gathered in New York for the celebration, it was a chance for them to express common hopes for the UN as well as to exam­ine the UN's current role in world polities. 
The fact that more world leaders were assembled in honor of the anniversary than had ever been assembled be­fore indicates an important step forward for the UN, aeeording to .Johansen. 
"The matter of increased membnrship is essential, espe­cially if the UN is to get more powerful. It is also better to havn arguments in the same forum hecausn it is now more rnpresentative," he said. 
.Johansen added that the leadllfs seemed to address sev­eral eomrnon themes eoncern­ing problems within the struc­ture of the UN, including financing, an exclusive Security Council, and overextension of its forces. 
While the heads of state called on the UN for reform in many areas, such as financing, .Johansen feels the UN is not so much at fault as the member countries which have not lived up to their commitments. 
"The UN must first address its financial problems by cut­ting the budget and by getting member countries to pay their dues on time," said .Johansen. "The U.S. has a poor record and is the biggest defaulter on past dues. It is now 1.2 billio.n dollars behind, while the main budget of the UN is only two billion dollars." 
Leaders also called for an ex­pansion of the Security Council, which has consisted of the same five countries since the UN's creation. 
"Countries now powerful such as Germany and .Japan were not made permanent members after World War II. Once they become serious can­didates, others must also be considered, such as India," said Johansen. 
The UN has also faced prob­lems because of its overexten­sion of forces especially in the area of peacekeeping. 
"The UN must be sure it does not bite off more than it can chew when there are so many requests for UN peacekeeping units," asserted Johansen, who also feels that the UN is often 



RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
COST: 


ame 


ncounter 

A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunlly, In dlaloguo wllh othora, lo deepen your undorttnn.dlng ot younell, your valuRI, your rolnllonshlp wllh Chrh•t, vour oxporlonce ol Chrl1tlnn communllv nnd sorvlco. 
NOVEMBER 17-19, 1.995 
October 23-27 
Before 4:00 p.m. -October 27 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 
~­
(?MPUS MINISIRY
$25.00 


asked to go into situations which it is not prepared to handle. "The United Nations should not be asked to go into high risk situations without the proper personnel, funding, and training, but the members have not been giving money." 
In spite of these problems, however, Johansen believes the UN has achieved several posi­tive results in the past. Great progress has been made in the area of providing assistance to people in need through immu­nizations, education and eco­nomic development, he said. 
A second area of achieve­ment involves refugees and dis­placed people; the UN is the primary international institu­tion dealing with the problem. The third area has been in the "realm of conflict reduction, resolution and peacekeeping." Since its creation, the UN has sponsored more than 30 mis­sions, and has negotiated peace settlements in over 172 conflicts. 
The UN has also impacted the world on a more abstract level, according to Johansen, serving as a symbol of hope and unity for the future. 
"On a level of aspiration, the UN symbolizes unity of the whole human race-and a desire to live in peace," he stated. 



Renshaw named to tax board 
BY MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) appointed Saint Mary's professor Claude Renshaw to a three-year term on AICPA's tax education committee. 
The professional organiza­tion, boasting over 300,000 members, is based in Washington, D.C. 
According to Henshaw, his experience at Saint Mary's, coupled with his involvement with the AICPA in tax educa­tion projects on the state and national level, led to his place­ment on the committee. 
The appointment to the 12­member committee is an in­credible opportunity, according to Renshaw, who is currently a practicing accountant in South Bend and has been a professor of business administration and economics at Saint Mary's for 18 years. 
"'This is so exciting, because since I'm teaching tax, I can get a feel for the mainstream thinking and hot issues in tax education and reflect them in the classroom," Renshaw said. 
The committee's major goal is "to develop a standardized curriculum for tax education in the United States," said Renshaw. 
Along with influencing curriculum at universities around the nation, the commit­tee hosts a national annual conference on federal tax. 
In addition to influencing na­tional education policy, Ren­shaw says the appointment brings Saint Mary's Accounting Department national recogni­tion. 
"Saint Mary's representation on this national committee is beneficial, giving the depart­ment nation-wide exposure and visibility," he stated. 

Watchdogs discover rampant waste 
By LOUIS MEIXLER ment, some $4 million in Associated Press overpayments have been recovered or prevented and an UNITED NATIONS additional $13 million in sav­
The snowmobiles were ings has been identified. never used. The uniforms "Congress is always ready to weren't needed. Many of 1,400 criticize, but clearly I must say generators never made it out that while it does not happen of their crates. overnight, internal oversight is 
And that was just Bosnia. beginning to have an impact 
A U.N. report about internal on the organization," Paschke waste, released Wednesday, said. comes after dozens of world But he added that the U.N. leaders, including President financial crisis, caused in part Clinton, marked the 50th an-by Washington's $1.3 billion niversary of the organization debt to the organization, is with demands for financial re-undermining reform. form and streamlining. Paschke said a program to 
"The bureaucracy has help retrain U.N. managers grown without pruning for has been closed and work­many years. Procedures and shops postponed until next structures have become too year due to lack of funding. rigid, frustrating creativity and "This is, I believe, a terrible individual initiative," Karl and very significant blow to Paschke, the head of the U.N. our efforts," he said. internal oversight agency, said In a separate report released in the report, the group's first. Wednesday, Secretary-General 
The audit reviews the past 7 Boutros-Ghali described the 1/2 months since the agency organization's financial situa­was established under pres-tion as "bleak" and said the sure from the United States organization expects, by year's and other nations. It found, for end, to owe $1 billion to example, that U.N. peacekeep-nations that contributed ers in Somalia spent 2 1/2 peacekeeping troops. Unless times as much as they needed members pay their bills, for water and overpaid a fuel Boutros-Ghali said, the organi­contractor by almost $1 mil-zation's ability to act "will be lion. Paschke said that as a crippled and its continued via­result of his oversight depart-bility will be threatened." 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 26, 1995 
burgh Library that will open in budget to the Democrats in around in 2000" because "he's 
spring of 1996. Howland and Congress." made too many statements and
OSD Shields
the OSD are also attempting to Shields said that Republicans too many enemies." continued from page 1 develop an accessibility plan continued from page 1 have dominated Capitol Hill In the Democratic arena, 
that will address the physical since November and explained Colin-Powell would be a "seri­into five categories: general barriers that exist on campus, on vacation any more, Shields the negative aspects of this ous challenge to Clinton" as a services, services for learning including a timeline that will explained. Another reason for dominance. Democratic candidate, accord­
disabilities, services for visual plan for the removal of those the loss of optimism is that, as "When one party controls ing to Shields. As an indepen­
impairments, services for hear­barriers. Americans, we have had fewer Congress and the other party dent Powell may win more ing impairments, and services Howland hopes that the office controls the White House, they votes than he would running as
"common experiences to bring

for physical disabilities. will benefit students without us together," he said. don't simply atta,ck each other, a Republican because, "when As of Oct. 19, a total of 38 disabilities in addition to the In his summary of America's they attack the branch of gov­he steps up there" with the Re­students had contacted the OSD students with disabilities. He history in the White House, ernment each party controls," publicans, he "ceases to be the 
to notify the department of said while the department can­Shields said that former U.S. Shields said. "The net effect is special person that he is." their disabilities. Students who not provide concrete services to President George Bush's presi­that no successes are re­Powell posses certain favor­are in need of assistance can those without disabilities, its dential platform was not about ported." able characteristics as a presi­
contact Howland for further very existence should help fos­"change" -it was one of "conti­As an example, Shields re­dential candidate that would information but may need ter an atmosphere of under­nuity." After the Persian Gulf ferred to former president "fill the void" of America, a documentation of their disabili­standing on campus. War, approval polls indicated Richard Nixon!s effort in 1970 nation "crying for leadership." ty in order to receive special "Hopefully, students without that the populace had a high "to reverse the damage that He can bring "racial healing" services. disabilities will realize that they opinion of Bush. But in 1991, had been done to the environ­and help "to bridge the gulf Currently, the OSD is working are much more like them (stu­"it was back to a different ment." Since then, environ­that exists in this country on the development of an Assis­dents with disabilities) than not America," according to Shields. mental improvements have racially," especially following tive Technology Lab in the Hes-like them," he said. "People felt that Bush didn't been made: "the Great Lakes the controversial verdict on the were saved" and rivers and O.J. Simpson murder trial,
know what was going on in 

streams are more "swimmable Shields said. 
offices of Student Affairs at their lives," and they were con­
and fishable." Listing other attributes of
cerned that their children's fu­
Notre Dame. 


PinS 

But despite the fact that these Powell, Shields claims that he
tures "would not be as bright as

PinS is sponsoring this speak­
improvements have been appeals to members of both 
continued from page 1 out as. part of its mission to theirs." 
sensed "economically and spiri­parties, and that he appeals to
Clinton responded to the na­

promote continuing gay and 
tually," Shields said, "conserva­whites "because of who he is
tion's concerns with "economic

that homosexual movement. lesbian education. 
tives don't want to acknowledge and what he's accomplished."
destiny, personal safety, and its

Storey will discuss basic social "It's a subject that is more 
these changes and liberals "Powell is "a product of the
distrust in leadership." Because

justice, highlighting reasons talked about now and if there's 
don't want to acknowledge that public schools of New York, a
Americans saw hope in the fu­

why homosexuals should not more talk about it, then it's got 
they happened while a conser­product of the Reserves Officers 
have to face discrimination; he to be getting better, " said ture with a new leader, Clinton 
vative was in the White House." Training Corp, and he is the
became president. 

will also talk about his life as Silva. PinS recently sponsored 
As a result, "we lose confidence son of immigrants," Shields
Explaining presidential opin­

an openly gay man who has the distribution of purple rib­
in our ability to act collective­said. Most importantly, Powell's
ion polls, Shields said that in

been living with his partner for bons in support of National 
ly." candidacy becomes appealing
the 1920s, Franklin Roosevelt

18 years. Coming Out Day. 
After listing Republican pres­after envisioning Clinton or
never enjoyed above a 67 per­

Silva, the student speaker "I thought we had a great re­
idential candidates for the 1996 Newt Gingrich as president.
cent approval rating, and in the 

who gave a speech this summer sponse when we distributed 
election, Shields said "one of Citing some of both men's
1980s, Reagan never surpassed

at the Resident Advisor (RA) ribbons," said PinS member 
the republican candidates will positive and negative qualities, 
66 percent. "When you go to 91

training sessions, will address Carol Jones. "Sixty-six people 
emerge." Shields said that Clinton and
percent, nobody knows what

the issue of homosexual stu­signed up to get more informa­
As for Dole and Gingrich, Gingrich "could be twins." 
dents' perspectives. tion about our support group," you stand for," Shields said. 
"this is their only chance to be "Both men love policy and
Ross Perot fared favorably in

A junior sociology major and she added. 
president," Shields said, ex­politics and are good at both;
the polls in the middle of 1992, 

former chairman of support "We're sponsoring this event 
plaining that, unless Clinton both are versed in ideas; both
despite the fact that he had vir­

and outreach of GLND/SMC, because these are actual people 
wins, Gingrich, who is in "a dif­read and are literate; both lack
tually no ranking in the polls in 

Silva will discuss being gay at facing the challenges of being 
ferent spotlight than any other an 'Ozzie and Harriet' personal
February of-that year, because

Notre Dame and the challenges homosexual. People can come 
Republican," will no longer be life; both men can break the
he faces as a homosexual stu­to this forum and educate "he made a case for change." 
the star performer." Comparing polygraph when talking about
"Perot put the deficit out

dent on campus. Silva cur­themselves realistically and not 
Dole to "a great first date," their military records, and both
there," Shields explained, "after 

rently serves as President of based on statistics that may not 
Shields said Dole is "bright, probably eat too much and talk
Republican conservatives sub­

the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay be necessarily true," Jones 
quick and glib, but he won't be too much," Shields said. 
and Lesbian Needs under the said. mitted a seriously unbalanced 
,...~, 
... 
I ,,*l -­
. : 

SPEAKER SYMPOSIUM Sponsored by MBA Business &Technology Management Club and MBA Association 
"Technology Management for the 21th Century" 
Friday, October 27, 1995 The Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration Building Complex 
Agenda 

10:30am Introductions 
10:40am Mr. Joseph P. Keithley 
Chairman, President and CEO, Keithley Instruments, Inc. 
"Restarting Profitable Growth of High Technology Company" 
I1:25am Mr. Harold V. Feeney 
Vice President, Pathfinder Research, Inc. 
"Managing Technology: Semiconductor as Leading Indicator" 
12:10pm Break -Refreshments Served 
12:25pm Mr. J. Douglas Berto Partner, Andersen Consulting, Arthur Andersen & Co., S.C. "Technology Impact on Airline Distribution Network" 
Business Attire Preferred 

JOSEPH P. KEITHLEY 

Chairman, President and CEO, Keithley Instruments, Inc. 
Joseph P. Keithley is the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Keithley Instruments, Inc. in Cleveland, Ohio. Since joining Keithley Instruments in 1976, Mr. Keithley has held various positions in sales, sales management, product planning, international and corporate marketing, and division management. 
Keithley Instruments was founded in 1946 and provides instrumentation to semiconductor manufacturers, medical equipment manufacturers, and growth segments of the electronics industry. 
HAROLD V. FEENEY 
Vice President, Pathfinder Research Inc. 

Harold V. Feeney has participated in strategic consulting and market analysis with Pathfinder Research since its inception in 1991. Pathfinder provides decision support services to the semiconductor and electronics industries. 
Prior to joining Pathfinder, Mr. Feeney was .Group Vice President and Director of Dataquest's Components Group for two years. In that capacity,' he had direct responsibility for US semiconductor research and he coordinated European-and Japan-based research. Before joining Dataquest, he led the design team that developed Intel's first 8-bit microprocessor, the 8008 at Intel Corporation. 
J. DOUGLAS BERTO 

Partner, Andersen Consulting, Arthur Andersen & Co., S.C. 
J. Douglas Berta is a Chicago-based partner with Andersen Consulting. He is a member of Andersen Consulting's Transportation, Travel and Services (TT&S) leadership team. TT&S accounted for over $200 million in revenues for Anderson in 1994. 
For the past nine years, Mr. Berto has worked with clients in the Airline Industry. In 199r, he was involved in the formation of a $300 million business enterprise within Andersen, PRA Solutions. 

~~---~-~--~-~ 
Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 





Haggar College Center re-opens snack bar 
BY LORI ALLEN to generate student responses The unveiling begins at 6:45 the naming contest. Sullivan, along with Dorie News Writer eoncerning the renovation of p.m. with a short speech and Marriott will bring a cookie Wilkey and Suzanne Kon­the snack bar. The results of prayer, followed by the ribbon stacking contest sponsored by dratenko, co-chairwomen of the 
It's been months in the mak­this poll indicated that students cutting. The large screen tele­Nabisco. At 8 p.m., door prizes Haggar Henovation Committee, ing. Tonight marks the ol'licial wanted a change in the atmo­vision will be tuned in to NBC's such as a CD boombox donated was impressed with the collab­grand re-opnning of the Haggar sphere, to a eomfortable place "Friends" at 7 p.m. Free food by Marriott will be given away, orative effort involved. College Center snaek bar. in which to study and sodalize. will be provided, and the book­and a Starstruck Video of stu­"I think that the renovation 
The renovation of the snack Sullivan and her staff plan to store hours will be extended dent lipsyncs from September's will give Haggar more of the bar is a projeet that was started promote this in unveiling the from 6 to 8 p.m. Twilight Tailgate will be shown. qualities of a student union and by last year's student body staff snack bar tonight in Haggar The event, which kicks off Sullivan hopes to increase the make it a place where students and, according to Saint Mary's College Center. the contest to suggest a new spirit at Saint Mary's College, will want to hang out," Wilkey Student Body President Sarah The new snack bar, done in name for the snack bar, is a and eventually plans to have stated. Sullivan, it has been one of the plaid and blue, contains new community effort designed to cable installed in four different "Hopefully, students will see most coneerted efforts of the tile and carpet. The beverage draw students, administrators, places in Haggar. Four pic­that, if enough people get to­student body in quite some refrigerators were moved to the faculty and staff. One hundred tures representing the history gether to make a ehange, their time. end of the food service line, and dollars in "munch money" will and tradition of Saint Mary's efforts will pay off," Sullivan 
A survey was initiated last fall tables replace the booths. be awarded to the winner of will be displayed in two weeks. said. 
Body undermines HIV defense Radioactive waste 
By MALCOLM RITTER should prevent them from in­which serve to remind the dis­Associated Press fecting cells. ease-fighting immune system 
cleanup gets support
But the new study says they what germs and other invaders 
NEWYOBK are infectious. and it blames the look like. By H. JOSEF HEBERT The energy and water spend­
In a new sign of' how slippery cells that form the weblike The new work was done in Associated Press ing bill would provide about a foe the AIDS virus is, re­mesh. Somehow, these eells let mice and in test tubes. He­$275 million for solar and seardwrs reported today that it trapped HIV continue to infect searchers found that when HIV WASHINGTON renewable energy programs, <:an infeet key blood cells even despite its handcuffs, re­was handcuffed by so-called House and Senate conferees $122 million less than being aftnr it's trapped and chemi­searchers from Virginia Com­neutralizing antibodies, it could agreed Wednesday to add $56 spent this year. cally handcuffed by the body. monwealth University in Rich­still infect its key target, T cells million to cleanup radioactive The lawmakers wrangled for 
The result shows that re­mond report in today's issue of of the immune system, but only wastes at federal weapons hours over whether to increase snarehnrs must find ways to at­the journal Nature. if dendritic cells were present. facilities, but the $5.5 billion the department's nuclear taek the trapped IIIV, re­Burton, an assistant professor That happened even when the cleanup budget still was less weapons cleanup and environ­snareher Gregory Burton said. of microbiology and immunol­levels of neutralizing antibodies than what the Energy mental restoration program. 
Scientists have long known ogy, said current anti-HIV were a million times greater Department says it needs. The House originally had that largn populations of HIV drugs may not work against the than what is normally needed The money was part of a agreed to spend $5.2 billion, a hnwmn trapped by a weblike trapped virus because they are to block infection, Burton said. $19.3 billion spending bill for 16 percent cut from this year, nwsh in lymphoid tissues like aimed at blocking reproduction, "You really wouldn't think it this fiscal year that was ap­but then agreed to raise it to the tonsils, spleen and lymph and IIIV does not reproduce had any chance at all of being proved by lawmakers and now $5.5 billion. nodes. while trapped. able to infect, and yet it clearly awaits final action by both the Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., 
House and Senate. then sought another $126 mil­Studies show that HIV infects "We go out and destroy the does," he said. 
The bill would impose sharp lion, arguing that cleanup ef­
blood cells in lymphoid tissues, virus at other sites, but it re­It's not clear how dendritic but it hasn't bnen dear whether mains sitting (while trapped) ... cells permit HIV infection. But reductions in spending for solar forts at the Hanford reservation tlw trapped IIIV was responsi­waiting to infect as soon as it since their normal job is to and renewable energy pro­in her state might be jeopar­ble. gets an opportunity," he said. show bits of germs to the im­grams and energy conservation dized. "We have (radioactive 
programs, although in most waste) tanks leaking toward
That's beeause the trapped The web-making cells are mune system, they may expose viruses are "handcuffed," cov­called follicular dendritic cells. the AIDS virus in a way that lets cases slightly more money was our rivers," she pleaded. "We ered with antibodies and other Their normal job is to trap and it infect nearby T cells, Burton being provided than originally are trying to contain a very immune system proteins that hold bits of foreign material. said. approved by the House. dangerous problem." 
~ Dept.,Center for Social Concerns,Gender Studies Program,lnternatlonal Student Affairs Notre Dame African Students Assoclatlon,the President Offlce,the Provost Office, Student ~
Sponsored By: 
.. 
:.:. Keeping Up With Its Tradition Of Bringing You The Very Best 
j The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
ii"-Proudly Presents: 
f• A GIANT AFRICAN MODERN MUSIC CONCERT & DANCING 
Featuring: 
Foday Musa Suso and the Mandingo Griot Society 
from The Gambia (West Mrica) 


With... 
Date: Thursday October 26, 1995 Foday Suso on the Kora Time: 7:00 P.M. Chuck Hosch on the Bass Abdul Haakem on the Guitar
Venue: Stepan Center 
Avreeayl Raamen on the Drums
Admission: General ...... $5.00 
Koco Brunson on the KeyboardStudents ..... $3.00 
Manu Washington on the Congas 

Tickets available at the LaFortune 
if 
in 
ii1
...
.. 
~ 
..."' ~ 
! 
i 
a
.. 
z
.. 
.. 
ii' :ool 
!!. 
a
...
... 
;;; 
! ~ 
n
.. 
a 
CD 
3 
.... 
0 
;;; 
~ 
tn
.. 
j n 
5!. 
"ii'
...
.. 
~---~~~ ----~ ­
page 6 Thursday, October 26, 1995
The Observer • NEWS 


Vote for separation could trigger a messy division 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
At best, it would a painful, messy divorce. If Quebec votes next Monday to secede, sepa­ratists' initial joy will be fol­lowed almost certainly by pro~ tracted wrangling with an em­bittered Canada over debt, trade and division of property. 
Who would get those high­tech air force fighters based in Quebec? How would Canada's national debt be divvied up? Under what terms could a sov­ereign Quebec gain mem­bership in NAFTA? 
The federal government has pointedly avoided detailed an­swers to such questions, hoping the separatists lose the refer­endum. 
But the latest polls in the 
mostly French-speaking province show a narrow major­ity in favor of independence, and the outcome is very much in doubt. 
Doomsayers say a separatist win would knock the Canadian dollar to an all-time low, jack up interest rates, and virtually freeze any new investment in Quebec. 
"It's uncharted territory," said economist Mario Angastin­iotis. "We've never had the breakup of the country before." 
The separatist leaders, Par­liament member Lucien Bouchard and Quebec Premier Jacques Parizeau, say the af­termath of a "Yes" vote for in­dependence doesn't have to be traumatic. Markets would be soothed, they say, if Canada would sit down at the bargain­ing table and negotiate an equi-

Balkan presidents meet with Yeltsin 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
U.S.-run Bosnia peace talks will be delayed one day so Rus­sian President Boris Yeltsin can register his support by meeting 
with three Balkan lead­
ers  in  
Moscow.  
T  h  e  

Kremlin ses­sion Tuesday stems from Yeltsin's 

pledge to Yeltsin President Clinton to work with the United States to promote a settlement. But it also could be r~ky for the Russian leader. 
His critics say he walks in the tracks of the United States and is abandoning the Serbs, cul­tural and religious cousins to the Russians. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, who announced the meeting Wednesday, said Yeltsin was "taking a step to­ward peace in the Balkans." 
Asked if Yeltsin was also run­ning a risk at home, Christopher replied: "It's not my part to try to evaluate the political risks." 
DAYTONA BEACH ltJj'iltflJjl STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
The session with presidents Slobodan Milosevic of Serbia, Franjo Tudjman of Croatia and Alija Izetbegovic of Bosnia next Tuesday enhances Yeltsin's world stature. 
It also diverts attention from his dispute with Clinton over Russian peacekeepers in Bosnia. 
Clinton wants them under NATO's command, but Yeltsin objects to the Western alliance being in charge of Russian sol­diers. 
Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev will try to work out a compromise with Defense Secretary William Perry in Washington on Friday and Sat­urday. 
Clinton relayed the invitation Tuesday to Izetbegovic and Tudjman in New York. Milose­vic was informed in Belgrade. 
As a result, the opening of Bosnia peace talks at Wright­Patterson Air Force Base near Dayton, Ohio, will be delayed one day. ' 
In Moscow, foreign ministry spokesman Grigory Karasin called the Kremlin meeting a breakthrough. 
He credited "the persistent efforts of Russia, the United States and the European Union." 
table economic and political partnership with Quebec. 
The referendum question al­ludes to such a partnership, and the separatists say they are willing to wait up to a year to declare independence, as long as they feel Canada is negotiat­ing in good faith. 
But Prime Minister Jean Chretien, a Quebecker who op­poses separation, has refused to commit himself to negotiations and has never explicitly promised that his federal gov­ernment would accept the out­come of a narrow "Yes" vic­tory. 
"The rest of Canada is not a country," Chretien said last week. "Who can predict the re­actions of the nine other provinces, let alone predict that they would manage to reach consensus?" 
Loans 
continued from page 1 
cle published in the Oct. 3, 1995 edition of the Chicago Tribune, Malloy warned against the neg­ative ramifications of the bill. 
"Many schools simply will pass the fee along in the form of higher tuition. Others will han­dle the fee by reducing allo­cations for other priorities, such as undergraduate teaching, fi­nancial aid or student services," wrote Malloy. "Students will pay, in fact, they will pay twice­once directly, once indirectly." 
Some of the other damaging cuts are the elimination of the six month interest-free grace period, increased interest rates for loans to parents and a re­duction in Pell Grant funding. 
Russo warns that although these cuts will effect the Notre Dame community they must be examined logically. "A $10,000 loan with eight percent interest will only amount to a $3.25 a month increase," said Russo. 
The nine senators who have declined to comment on their vote include; Senator Pete Domenici of New Mexico, Sena­tors Arlen Spector and Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, Senator Nancy Kassebaum of Kansas, Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon, Senator Spencer Abraham of Michigan, Senator Alfonse D'Amato of New York, Senator Robert Prist of Ten­nessee and Senator Mike Dewine of Ohio. 

I:~ES: 
INVESTORS FLEE: Stocks, bonds, currency lose value. 
~::::mm=..,:;=;l;::.:,. 
CANADIAN DOLLAR PLUNGES: Imports including food get more expensive. 
'*"'"'=""' 
INTEREST RATES RISE: 
Bank loans, mortgages, credit 
card payments more 
expensive. 
COST OF DEBT SERVICING RISES: Possible tax hikes, more government cutbacks. 
~~rz.~::<:::::-yz:,· 
ECONOMY SLOWS DOWN: Jobs lost. 
Citizens of Quebec vote Oct. 30 on whether to separate from Canada. How Quebec's economy will be affected by the vote: 
Ad Hoc 
continued from page 1 
GLND/SMC Co-Chair John Blandford said he's encouraged by the meeting. 
"It's good that we're talking. I hope Student Affairs will finally get the message and deal seriously with us," he said. 
While fellow Co-Chair Samantha Shannon expressed similar hopes, she said she remains skeptical about the meeting's potential. "I wonder if (the meeting) will do any­thing," she said. 
Blandford said he hopes the Office of Student Affairs and O'Hara will not taken the com­mittee's reports lightly. 
"She ignored the CLC, hope­fully she won't ignore the com­mittee," he said. 
Last night's open session was the committee's first, and is part of a series of actions the group has undertaken. This spring, the committee released a preliminary report on its de­liberations on the needs of gay and lesbian students. The com­mittee expects to have another 

INVESTORS REASSURED: Canadian stocks, bonds, currency hold value. 
~.$.·( : 
CANADIAN DOLLAR STRENGTHENS: Imports cheaper. 
~t~ 
INTEREST RATES DROP: Bank loans, mortgages and credit less expensive. 
DEBT SERVICING FALLS: Ottawa can step up debt reduction, keep lid on new taxes. 
~=mnl;<'::·.··. 
ECONOMY PICKS UP: More jobs created. 
-CP 
report published by the end of this semester, with a final set of findings due by March 1, 1996. 
The committee has decided not to talk with the media about their endeavor until the final report is released. Committee Chair Ann Firth asked local media not to attend last night's discussion because she was concerned a media presence would change the character of the dialogue. 
Other committee members include: Sister Sue Bruno, rec­tor of Pasquerilla West Hall; Father Terence Linton, rector of Grace Hall; graduate student Sharon Miller; Susan Steibe­Pasalich, assistant director of the University Counseling Cen­ter; Father David Burrell, pro­fessor of theology; Maura Ryan, professor of theology; Student Body President Jonathan Patrick; Student Body Vice-President Dennis Mc­Carthy~· junior Anthony Silva; Patrick Utz, director of the Uni­versity Counseling Center; and Father Richard Warner, direc­tor of the Office of Campus Ministry. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
h t some of the Wondered about w a ll baud 
. ls of the Mass are a a
rttua 

ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS AND MORE AT POWER LUNCHES. 
WHEN: Every Friday from 12:15 until1:05 --come as often as you like. WHERE: Faculty Dining Room (Second floor, South Dining Hall). WHO: You. Your friends. Anyone who wants to learn, or wants a"refresher" in 
the basics of the Catholic Faith. LUNCH PROVIDED: but not by us --bring your tray upstairs or get a grab 'n go. 
P.S. You'll find out fast--You're not the only one with questions. 


Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Clinton says he won't cave to budget pressure 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 
President Clinton vowed Wednesday that he will not sub­mit to "economic blackmail" from a Hepublican Congress intent on forcing him to accept their sweeping budget. 
As both houses of Congress began debating the massive budget bill, the president ac­cused Hepublicans of being ir­responsible in threatening an unprecedented default on the national debt unless Clinton ac­ceptnd their approa<:h to achiev­ing a balancnd budget by 2002. 
The message from the Hepub­Iican Congress, Clinton said, is to accept its handiwork intact "or we'll just stop America from honoring its obligations for the first time in history." 
"I am not going to let anybody hold Medicare or education or the environment or the future of this eountry hostage," the presi­dent declared. 
"If they send me a budget that says simply, 'You take our cuts or we'll let the country go into default,' I will veto it," he said. "Threats to our future are not an aceeptable basis for good faith efforts to resolve our dif­ferences." 
But Hepublicans gave no sign they would back down. charging that Clinton's strongly worded attack was an effort to mask the fact that he has not yet pro­duced his own plan to balance the budget in seven years. 
"Instead of an honest plan to balance the budget, all the American people are offered are excuses and Washington gimmicks," said Rep. John Boehner of Ohio, chairman of the House Hepublican Confer­ence. "I hope the president will soon get out of the press room, off tho campaign trail and talk to Congress about how he would eliminate the deficit using something other than rosy sce­narios and Washington gim­micks," he said. 
Clinton's veto threat came as he announced that the budget deficit for the fiscal year ending in September shrank to $164 billion, down from $203.2 bil­lion in 1994, for the third con­secutive decline. He credited the economic program Democrats passed when he took office in 1993. 
The president's news confer­ence comments were aimed at prodding Congress into increas­ing the national debt limit, cur­rently at $4.9 trillion. That limit will be reached sometime in early November and without an increase, the government would be unable to pay its bills, thus pushing the country into a default. 
"Republican congressional leaders have said they won't pass the debt ceiling bill unless I accept their misguided budget priorities," Clinton told re­porters. "It is economic black­mail, pure and simple." 
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, elaborating on Clinton's remarks, said the administra­tion considered passage of a long-term increase in thtJ na­tional debt ceiling a prerequisite for beginning negotiations with GOP leaders on a budget ac­ceptable to both sides. 
"If we get that (threat of de­fault) out of the way, then we have a basis for sitting down," Rubin said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
But Republican leaders so far have been unwilling to grant the administration's request, with a group of House freshmen insist­ing that they will not vote to boost the borrowing limit until Clinton and Congress agree on a plan to balance the budget over the next seven years. 
Budget bill on both floors 
T H E T H E 
SENATE HOUSE 
MEDICARE 
• Raise annual deductible to $150 in • Keep deductible at $100. Hospital 1996 and add $10 each year. Shave increases reduced by $76 billion. $86 billion from hospital fee increases. 
IIOTH: Increase costs to beneficiaries; trim payments to providers; pay for more benefits; encourage elderly to switch to private managed care units. Allow seniors to choose catastrophic-only health coverage coupled with a medical savings account. • 
MEDICAID 
•save $187 billion over seven years. • Save $182 billion over seven Provide Medicaid for children under 13 years. and pregnant women in poor families. 
BOTH: Convert Medicaid into block grants to the states. Cut spending grow1h from 10 percent annually to less than 5 percent. 
AGRICULTURE 
• Keeps traditional price subsidies, but • Traditional subsidy programs end. makes less cropland eligible. Dairy Dairy price regulation ends. pricing regulated; price supports end. 
_,.H: Save $13.4 billion. 
WELFARE 
• Maintains foster care, school • Sends foster care, school lunches lunches and nutrition assistance for and nutrition assistance for pregnant women and infants as federal pregnant women and infants to the programs. Claims $66 billion savings. states as block grants. Claims $90 
billion savings. 
DTH: Impose five-year limits on cash benefits. 
EDUCATION 
• Saves $10.9 billion. Colleges pay a • Saves $10.2 billion. 
0.85 percent fee on student loans. Lenders would receive less in federal subsidies for defaulted loans. 
ll:b'H: Students pay the interest costs during the six-month period after graduation. 
Source: AP research APIT. Tso 
CAMPUS MINISTRY••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP~ 
They were both seniors. They had dated for almost two years. Graduation was looming in their future. They both were interviewing for jobs. They felt that this relationship was special; they were serious about each other. But they just weren't sure what the next step was. Should they look for jobs in the same city or should they test the relationship with some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and establish some career goals? 
They came into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for some information. Perhaps we had a compatibility test they might take to see ifthey were truly meant for each other. Did we have any articles they might read? Did we have any advice on what they should do? 
This was a new twist. Though we had offered programs for engaged couples for many years, we had not really thought about this category ofcouple; what should we call them? "Serious but not yet committed?" "Pre-engaged?" We were gready impressed that a couple would so seriously question their future as to come to our office for advice. Yet a program for the engaged would not be appropriate for this couple. They were still exploring their relationship -the decision was not yet made; and the decision might eventually be to not continue the relationship. What could we do for couples like these? 
After much discussion we focused on some ofthe issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships: -how can we determine if we're really ready for marriage? -should we try to find jobs, or pick graduate schools that are in the same city? -how will a long distance relationship affect us? 
-how can you express your true feelings without 
pressurinf for commitment? 
-how wil the demands of career/graduate school affect 
our relationship? 
-how might differences in our families of origin affect our 
relationship? 
-how can we communicate better? 
After identifying the issues we put together a program and called it ''What's the Future of this Relationship?" it includes some presentations on the stages ofrelationships and decision­making. While we were able to avoid "compatibility tests", we did include a marriage expectations quiz. There is time for answering questions and a lot oftime for discussing answers with your partner. There is a discussion period for questions. There is a folder ofarticles for additional information and reflection. 
What most couples seemed to enjoy about the program was the time and the opportunity to discuss their relationship, especially areas or topics they hadn't considered before. 
Ifyou are in a significant relationship and are asking the kinds ofquestions listed above perhaps you'd like to attend the program this semester. 
"Whats the Future ofthis Relationship?" wiU take place Sunday, November 12, 
1:00p.m.-5:00p.m. in the Notre Dame Room ofLaFortune. Pre-registration is required. Registrationpapers can be obtained in both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and Badin HaU). Registration deadline is November 10. The program is limited to 25 couples. There is no costfor the program. Ifyou have any questions, please caU Chris Etzel Sylvia orjohn Dillon at 631-5242. 
Chris Etzel 

8:00a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. George Wiskirchen, C.S.C. Most Rev. John M. D'Archy, D.D. Msgr. Dennis Schnurr 
-~-~-----~ 
page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, October 26, 1995 
Sweeney beats Donahue, takes AFL-CIO election 
By KEVIN GALYIN 
A~sociared Press 
NEW YORK 
John Sweeney, who led a dis­sident campaign to reinvigorate the labor movement, was elect­ed president of the AFL-CIO Wednesday in the first contest­ed election in the federation's 40-year history. 
Sweeney, president of the Service Employees Interna­tional Union, defeated Thomas Donahue, who had been presi­dent since Lane Kirkland was forced to resign in August. Union membership and labor's influence had declined during Kirkland's 16-year tenure, and Sweeney had sought to tie Don­ahue to that decline. 
According to a preliminary tally, Sweeney had 7.3 million votes to Donahue's 5.7 million votes. Sweeney immediately took the gavel and control of the federation. 
"Thank you, all of you, each and every delegate for this ex­traordinary moment," Sweeney said in brief remarks. "It is a moment of hope and promise for tke future and you are all to be commended for it." 
During a four-month cam­paign that divided the 13-mil­lion-member federation, Sweeney had promised to in­volve more women and minori­ties in federation business and intensify labor's recruitment efforts. 
Before the vote, union leaders struck a deal to mend a rift the campaign had opened in their ranks. 
In the secretary-treasurer's race, United Mine Workers President Rich Trumka, run­ning on Sweeney's ticket, de­feated Barbara Easterling, who has served as Donahue's No. 2 since August. 
With Sweeney at the podium, the convention approved what had been a contentious pro­posal to create a third executive position. 
Sweeney had promised to in­stall Linda Chavez-Thompson in the new position to ensure minority representation at a high level, and Teamsters Pres­ident Ron Carey nominated her to the post. 
Running unopposed, Chavez­Thompson was elected by ac­clamation. 
Sweeney, 61, was born in the Bronx to Irish immigrants. His mother was a maid, his father a bus driver who ardently sup­ported his union. 
The oldest of four children, Sweeney caddied and worked as a grocery store clerk as a teenager and earned a union card tending graves to pay for college. 
He ran a 70,000-member Service Employees Interna­tional Union in New York before serving 15 years as SEIU's international president in Washington. 
The race pushed Sweeney toward the pinnacle of the labor movement, but it cost him a decades-old friendship with Donahue, whom he once sup­ported to lead the federation. 
In a debate, Sweeney thanked the man he once considered a mentor for his "years of un­selfish devotion" to labor. "But times change and so must lead­ers and movements," he said. 
Labor's influence has de­creased considerably since the number of unionized workers peaked at 34.7 percent in 1954. Today, unions represent about 15 percent. 
Faced with a Congress they view as hostile, union leaders say the federation must become a more aggressive agent on behalf of workers. 
Sweeney and several presi­dents of the federation's largest unions began working behind the scenes about a year ago to oust Kirkland, saying he was an ineffective spokesman for labor. 
Reconstruction report: Capital punishment case beginsOklahoma fuse lit early 
By CHARLES RICHARDS man saying, "Who you on the Stanfield Vitalis, 28, and Neil Associated Press phone with?" The line then Rene, 19. Associated Press "We don't know for sure on went dead. Hall and Webster paid the that, but we're operating on FORT WORTH, Texas The case became a federal money but never got the mari­OKLAHOMA CITY that theory," one source told Sixteen-year-old Lisa Rene one when Lisa's abductors juana.
An FBI reconstruction of the the newspaper. 
screamed in terror and begged crossed the Texas line and Hall found out the brothers moments before the federal The April 19 blast killed 169 a 911 operator for help as men drove her to Pine Bluff, Ark., were staying in their sister's 
building bombing suggests that people and injured more than claiming to be FBI agents broke where she was buried in a Arlington apartment. 
the fuse of the 4,800-pound 500. 
into her apartment and park. Among the 60 crimes cov­They abducted Lisa whentruck bomb was lit before the Timothy McVeigh and Terry dragged her away. ered under the federal law are they couldn't find her brothers,vehicle even came to a halt, the Nichols could face the death Over two days, she was raped kidnappings that result in Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard
Los Angeles Times reported penalty if convicted of federal repeatedly, beaten with a shov­death. Roper said. Wednesday. murder and conspiracy el and then buried alive in what Three of five men charged Hall's brother Demetrius tes­
The reconstruction, using charges. 
prosecutors said was retaliation have pleaded guilty to kidnap­tified Tuesday that he, his video from surveillance cam­The indictment accuses 
against her two brothers for a ping in exchange for leniency brother, Webster and 23-year­eras, shows that the Ryder McVeigh of driving the truck drug deal gone bad. when they are sentenced. They old Steven Beckley dressed in truck was only parked in front and detonating the bomb. If the The short and chilling record­agreed to testify against Or­camouflage fatigues, armed 
of the building for about a FBI's estimates are correct, the ing of Lisa's 911 call was lando Hall, 24, of El Dorado, themselves with two pistols and minute before it exploded, the driver of the truck would have 
played for the jury Tuesday, the Ark., and Bruce Webster, 22, of a baseball bat and drove to the paper reported, citing unidenti­had time to drive less than a opening day in the first federal Pine Bluff, Ark. apartment. Lisa was homefied sources. 
mile between the time the capital punishment case filed Hall is on trial now. Webster, alone.
FBI experts believe the bom­bomb was lit and the explosion, under the crime bill enacted who also faces the death penal­Demetrius Hall said he and b's fuse was lit 2 minutes and 
the Times reported. last year. ty, is scheduled for trial March Webster raped the girl during
12 seconds before the blast, 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Steve "They're trying to break 4. the car ride to Arkansas, andleading them to conclude that it Mullins, a spokesman for the down ·my door! Hurry up!" Lisa Prosecutors said Hall was a Beckley raped her again once was lit before the truck stopped prosecution team, would not told the 911 dispatcher on Sept. drug dealer who had come to they were in a Pine Bluff motel in front of the Alfred P. Murrah comment on the reconstruc­24, 1994. A muffled scream is Texas to buy $5,000 worth of room, where she was kept with Federal Building. 
tion. heard seconds later, with a marijuana from Lisa's brothers, a hood over her head. 

_ .................................................::..................................................:...........::'!~ •••. ~......~.?: ....~:':": ..?:"!"!..~ ••~~~--~?:'?: ..'!'.~~"':"~..~ ...~ ....~.?.~..?.?:": .....~ .. : .. : ....~ .....~~~.~~.~...~~~~.?.~.~...: ....~.:.~ ........~ 
·~
Junior Fin~,
...,Jb,e==~t:=:::====~-"-'··--·..-unting, and ~~ \~~~ Econ rMBAs 
Fea Chief 

i 
I 
i I 
Pizza and soda will be served. Casual attire please. 
~~ 
~ 


--------------------------------0----~---~~---------~---.~-----~---------­
Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • MIDEAST NEWS page 9 
Palestinians celebrate West Bank withdrawal 
·.··.· •OCroBE~ 2i· 
..:' .:i::~B·Of}-·P.·-ns·':r;-~:;1< 
,~l·:-'···, ....•-~ ...· elY.l.•;~-:.· 
·, > • • :( .~...;... 
By HILARY APPELMAN 
Associated Press 
JENIN, West Bank 
Hundreds of eestatic Palfls­tinians waving nags and chant­ing "Our revolution is victori­ous!" mobbed the first repre­sP.ntulives of Vasser Arafat's poliefl who arrived Wednesday us Israel began pulling troops out of the eity. 
.Jnnin is the first of seven eitins to be handed to the Pales­tinians under thn lsrael-PLO autonomy agreement signed last month at the White House. 
Thn arrival of Arafat's police is thn first step toward Palestinian self-rule in most Wnst Bunk towns and villages by the end of the year. 
Whiltl Israeli soldiers stood haek and watched, celebrating Palestinians took a flag from the crowd and hoisted it to the top of a pole in front of the just­opened Israeli-PLO liaison cen­ter, then danced cheering around the once-outlawed ban­ner. 
"We have been under occu­pation for 28 years and now we are witnessing history," said Kadoura Mousa, an Arafat aide in Jenin. "The revolution of the construction of the Palestinian state has started." 
The relatively smooth start to the Israeli pullout from Jenin, open to the world's press, con­trasted sharply with last year's withdrawal from the Gaza Strip. 
Israeli soldiers there packed up in the middle of the night, accompanied by gunfire and hails of stones. 
Later Wednesday evening, dozens of Palestinians threw 
espeare QCompanp nts 
Parents Weekend! 
8:00PM 
Friday Nov. 3, Washington Hall 
LET 
stones at Israeli troops in Jenin, slightly injuring at least one border policeman, Israel army radio said, adding that three firebombs were thrown, but caused no damage or injuries. 
Wednesday was notable as much for what didn't happen as for what did. 
No Israeli soldiers left the ter­ritory they have occupied for 28 years, and only 10 of the 12,000 Palestinian police to be deployed in the West Bank actually arrived -and only after agreeing to come with their guns unloaded. 
But the 10 police, including five senior officers in olive drab, were given a hero's wel­come at the Israel-PLO liaison office -six white trailers on the outskirts of Jenin. 
"This is a moment of joy for our entire people," said Jamal Hasanat, one of hundreds of young men and boys singing and dancing in th~ bare dirt courtyard in the center of the trailers. 
Earlier Wednesday, Israeli troops moved out of the Jenin police station, loading chairs, tables and refrigerators onto trucks as hundreds of elated Palestinians ringed the station, cheering and chanting "This is our land." 
Jenin was festooned with flags. pictures of Arafat and banners welcoming the Pales­tinian police. 
A sign at the entrance to the city read, "Today Jenin, Tomorrow Jerusalem." 
The full transfer of authority in Jenin won't happen until Nov. 13, when Israel will turn over the army headquarters, police station, and all other government property in the city to the Palestinians, and the full 
..........---·-T·· 
Withdrawal begi~s 
Israeli troops began pulling out of ~enin Wednesday, the first 
step toward Palestine self-rule.  ' I  
Agreed areas of control  
•  Area A: Total Palestinian control  
£:1 Area B: Palestinian civil control  
with Israeli security0 Area C: Total Israeli control  

ISRAEL 
15 miles 
L_S 
15 km 
APN.Jm. J. Castello 
contingent of 1,000 Palestinian Hebron, by the end of MarciL police will start arriving. With­The pullout sets the stage for drawal from the rest of the Palestinian elections, tentative­West Bank will also take place ly set for Jan. 20. in stages. The gradual pullout is a fur 
Israeli troops are scheduled cry from Israel's hasty depar­to be out of six towns by the ture last year from Gaza and end of the year, and to shift Jericho, which was completed positions in the seventh, in a matter of days. 
--~------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, October 26, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... }en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krisra Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion ofeither instirution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


Last words before taking a needed break 
A
few well-meaning souls have sug­son could live, if you think about it. But the O.J. verdict and the Million Man political history conference and met gested I use my Thursday forum to he was smart, and kind, and hip, and March, and the pundits on TV, and the Monk Malloy, whose gracious manners homilize about the demise of my friend funny -the kind of person who could letters, and the and immense head Rob Adams. Sorry. No can do. I was break through to a bitter and lonely Viewpoint columns! impressed me with my able last year to write a fairly elaborate first-year student like myself when I first Does it really make own comparative unim­
'Reading the
treatment of Fr. Gerber's funeral, but he met him. He was sitting talking to Zoe any difference to any­portance, and C. Van was a holy man whom I only knew mar­Marin, a woman who was Day Editor at body whether the so­Observer over the Woodward, the emi­ginally, and whose own words provided the time. So this is the kind of guy called "black commu­nent southern histori­
last couple of weeks has 
the bulk of the column's meaning. Rob chicks here want, eh? I asked myself nity" (ih real life a an. I then drank the was a good friend of mine, a 21-year-old bitterly. I figured Rob for a typical col­small but vocal been instructive, if only night aw'ay with five kid with neither any reason nor any lege haircut-boy, an alternative music minority among Notre Dame Ph.Ds, all
for the great daily buzz­
desire to reflect on fan with a hot American negroes) of whom had good jobs. 
kill it provides. Can any­
death and the cosmos. 
girlfriend and supports this Then, a few nights The question of where no surprises. Farrakhan? Look, if one possibly be sicker later, I stood at the bar to get the first As I got to you want to get of Jo-Jo, an east side
of hearing about race
ParliamenVFunkadelic know him, mixed up in race-bat­temple of serious eat­
Josh
album was probably of though, it ing and recrimina­relations? Between the ing, and exchanged greater import to him, turned out he tion, go ahead. As far pleasantries with
O.J. verdict and the
and he was probably was far from a as I'm concerned, it Arthur M. Schlesinger, right. typical case: might as well be Million Man March, and Jr., the closest thing I
Ozersky
I can only hope that he was an Farrakhan. I mean, can imagine to the per­
the pundits on TV...' 
nobody tries to use his army brat, had there's no doubt that sonification of moder-pointless and horrible lived abroad, he's a Jew-hater ate liberalism. Hoo death to adorn some had a compli­through and through, boo, what a high! Me moralistic tale about drunk driving. The cated relationship with a less glamorous but at least he's crude enough to admit and Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.! He even ftrst one who tries has to deal with me, and more complex human being than I it. And if he gets a few people to live had a few fascinating insights about the and I don't care if s/he is twice my size! had supposed; had an productive and number 14, but that's another story. I joke about it, but I think it could have encyclopedic knowledge happy lives, I'm even happened to anybody. I don't know any of popular music, a willing to overlook of the details, but I am sure Rob's condi­knowing laugh, and a his role in killing WISH ME LUCK
'Jean only hope that
tion was no different than the majority strange taste for sicken­Malcolm X. Fine! At of rockers who live over there in ingly sweet, bright pink nobody tries to use least his listless, Ihave a triple trial coming up this Campus View. Unless you have some drinks. What a playboy! his pointless and horri­crazy, numerology­month: first a foreign-language exam, dork handy who doesn't drink, you have I miss him, as we all do, obsessed speeches then my Ph.D comps, then my oral
ble death to adorn some
to drive in the midwest, drunk or sober. but I have no doubt that won't incite any examinations. If I can pass all that (a How are people supposed to get to and he went straight to moralistic tale about pogroms. If any­questionable proposition), I will have all from bars that don't even have side­Heaven, like a shot. thing, it might be just my time to devote to writing. In short, I
drunk driving ... I don't
walks, let alone nearby bus stops? If the thing the calcula­will never have to study again! Until you feel like casting stones, go some­know any of the details tor industry needs. that happy day, however, I need to take where they're wanted, or helpful. TWO CHEERS FOR THE But don't pretend a break from writing the column. 
but I am sure Rob's con­
You can never trust eulogies, because IVORY TOWER he has a place in I will be back in December and hope­whenever someone dies everyone who dition was no different American society. fully with no bitter asides or topical knew them hastens to tell what a good Reading the Observer than the majority of He's a nut, and so it diversions to keep me from my task of egg they were. Rob had his flaws-he over the last couple anybody who walks amusing no one but myself. 
rockers who live over
was something of a ladies' man (if of weeks has been around in a pillbox indeed this is a flaw), and his prose was instructive, if only for there in Campus View.' hat cheering him on. a little clunky. lie liked the Beastie Boys the great daily buzz-kill For my part, I am enough to have a whole party devoted to it provides. Can anyone happy to report that I Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in them, and he lived in Campus View possibly be sicker of have officially joined history. He can be reached over e-mail apartments, the only place such a per-hearing about race relations? · Between the Old Boys Club. I attended a recent at: joshua. a. ozersky.l @nd. edu 
• DOONESSURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
~Hl~ 8ecN UKE tu&U, ONe& fOR 
YOUCANHAV&
7HIS FOR TWO OAY5, A MOVIf3.. ANf? 
IT BAO<, MAN.MAN. I HAVEN'T ONCE7VGCT IT'5A OORKY " God is really only another
teFT H/:?.R. 5//?E ... 8&£1<. /3UT 
NAME ANYWAY.
OTH&R7HAN artist. He invented the THAT, I'V& ......,____ 
giraffe, the elephant, and the
813CNH£RE 
FORH&R. . cat. He has no real style. He just keeps on trying other things.'' 
-Pablo Picasso 
~------------------------~.---~------------------~-----------------------------------------------------~------------~-------------------­
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, October 26, 1995 page 11 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Hope still exists for the state of American society 
Dear Editor: going upward to the corporate level, and economic structure that we exam­message of the gospel, confirmed over 
This year the Campaign for Human middle class Americans tend to blame ine we must question whether it pro­the past quarter century in the work of Dnvelopment, the domestic anti-poverty, Latino Americans, African Americans, motes human dignity. the Campaign for Human Development. social justice program of the U.S. and those of lower income for their Dr. West pointed out that many We were reminded that prayer with­Catholic Bishops, commemorates its growing insecurities. As a result, racial Americans refuse to look poverty in the out action is useless, and that donating twenty-fifth year of working against tensions increase while face because it is something to the weekly collection is injustice in America. the gap between middle uncomfortable, indeed good but not enough. We are called to 
Hecently in Chicago, a conference was and lower class frightening; and yet it challenge ourselves and others to act: to
'Although the state
held to celebrate the anniversary. Dr. becomes based more on is a reality that per­speak out against injustice, to educate Cornel West of llarvard University deliv­misplaced blame and of American soci-vades our country. He others on these issues, and to work for nred the keynote address; his message, alienation than on eco­ety has become critical, reminded us of the real solutions to social problems. We at along with that of Mary Gonzales of the nomic fact, and the connection between Notre Dame are fortunate to have the
the resounding message 
Gamalinl Foundation and others who bridge across it the love that Jesus had resources of the Center for Social rospondnd, was OIHl of crisis but also becomes more tenuous. of the conference was for us and the love that Concerns at our fingertips. When we hopn. It ehallenged American Catholics This moment of crisis we should have for the decide that something indeed needs to
one of hope. It is a hope
to nxamine our society in light of the calls for social, political, most vulnerable. The be done the esc has a host of op­faith that wn profess. Their message is and economic analysis. rooted in the social mes­Campaign for Human portunities for community involvement. of particular relevance to many of us We at Notre Dame have Development has In his closing remarks, Dr. West
sage of the gospel, con­
lwre at Notre Dame a particular responsibil­borne witness to this reminded us that every major wave of Aeeording to Or. West. we are living ity in this endeavor. As firmed over the past love for twenty-five activism in America has been sparked through one of the most frightening Christians at a time years in its promotion by young people. We are the young,
quarter century in the 
moments in the history of this nation, when the distance of community-con­those he referred to as "hungry and because "as grand and as flawed, between middle and work of the Campaign trolled self-help orga­thirsty for vision." Let us not turn our American democracy is beginning to un­lower class is widening nizations. They have backs on this kairos moment facing our
for Human 
ravel." Two obvious symptoms of our in many ways, we must worked to empower church and our nation. We cannot
Development.'
society in decline are poverty and para­conduct this analysis in the poor, giving people expect others to act if we don't. noia, that is, the escalating levels of light of the cross, based the chance to partici­despair among the poor as their plight on the sanctity and radical equality of pate in efforts to improve their own VALERIE ALONZO worsens and of distrust among those of each human being in our society. lives. Undergraduate Economics major middle income as the cohesion of the When we look at issues of economic Although the state of American society MATTHEW GUYNN middle class shatters. growth our first responsibility is to ask has become critical, the resounding Graduate Student, Kroc Peace lnS!itmc 
Althopgh the down-sizing of the mid­how it affects the most vulnerable message of the conference was one of PATRICIA LYNN din dass is only a matter of the wealth among us. With each social, political, hope. It is a hope rooted in the social Graduate Student, Kroc Peace Institute 
Education not measurable by future employability 
Dear Editor: 
In Hesponse to Mary Kate Morton's Inside Column (Oct 5, 1995), 
"Who Needs a Suit Anyway?" I would like to pose a question. 
Why is it that as Arts and Letters majors we find ourselves in con­
stant defense of our studies? 
As is apparent in Morton's article. the epidemic battering of one's decision to be a Philosophy, English, or (God fqrbid) a PLS major­battery that manifests itself both in overt questions like, ''What are you going to do with that-' and the more subtle, seductive abuse incurred by such visiting corporations like Leo Burnett, whose cun­ning appeals to the inadequacies many a humanities major might fool, by saying in more or less words, "Hey, that's okay, our name­sake was an Arl'> and Leisure major, too!"-such abuse leads to over­ly apologetic, self-effacing gibberish like the stuff of Morton's article. 
Instead of paying any heed to "the suits" traipsing around cam­pus-in seareh of a corporation to validate tho $100,000 plus invest­ment in their Notre Dame "education"-I say let us turn our gaze inward in hope of reaching a positive and sincere appreciation of the life-emiching "skills" one procures from a liberal education. 
In reflection upon my own experience as a PLS major, one such life­enriehing skill is communication. Not only are we habituated into the practice of fruitful conversation with our peers and professors both within and outside of -he classroom; moreover, we engage in conver­sation with fundamental questions posited by some of the most lnOu­llntial and controversial thinkers in history. The quest is, essentially, to understand oneself in terms of a much larger, organic and nurtur· ing sphf1re. and hopefully with such an understanding we are plagued neitlwr by a fear to chaWmge and question, nor to believe and defend. 
My purpose is not merely to extol the virtues of PLS. not those of any other humanistic endeavor. More importantly, I charge that as Arts and Letters majors we refuse to succumb to the vicious, lack-Ius· tor attitude that many people suppose us to embody. 
We all know that much creative, analytical, and reflective energy abounds among us. It is apparent in classroom discussions, student publieations, demonstrations and exhibits. Rather than bowing our· selves to the so-called ideals and pretenses of corporate America, both at Notre Dame and in the business world, I hope that we contin· ue to seek the inherent value of a liberal education, what John Henry Cardinal Newman ealls, tho development of a "philosophic habit of mind." 
Take pride in the fact that your skills are unmarketable. That the energy animating your minds is not quantifiable or packaged neatly is good and worthwhile without the firm handshake of Leo Burnett, Arthur Anderson, or Doloitte and Touche (whoever those unfortu· nately named fellows are!). 
Edueation, I bnlieve. is not validated by proving oneself to the stan· dards of 1\ grossly corporate, impnrsonal, and far too often unethical business world. On the eontrary, education needs no such validation or approval; it dons not need to dress itself up and dance ofT-beat to a st~lf-serving, impious drummer. 
If we really have our eyes open hero at Notre Dame, we would see that mueh more marks this time in the life of the collective senior body, if I dare call it that, than simply "INTBHVIEW TIME." People who are worth their salt are not bogged down in the regime of the suit people who have as of late invaded our campus. Plenty of people ar1~ not so concerned with, or in fear of. shaking hands with Leo or Arthur, but who by virtue of their passion continue to be students, activists, friends, poets, artists ...And so I ask, this time in less apolo­getic terms. "Who needs a suit anyway?" 
ERIN ANN SCANLON 
Senior 
... --. --Offc~mpus · 
Student cautions against blind faith in Career and Placement 
Dear Editor: 
Houghly one week into the school year, I joined the vast majority of my senior class­mates in the annual ritual of senior registra­tion with Career and Placement Services. 
We all plodded through the mindless exer­cises of taking our disks to different rooms, filling out countless forms, and paying our $20 registration fee. At the conclusion of our bap­tism into the world of job hunting we were all led to believe that these mysterious people who live in the basement of the library would do their best to give us opportunities to pre­sent ourselves to employers in the hopes of I was not registered. C&P called me the Thursday before I went into tell me that I turned in two Preference Forms, you can't do that, and not to do it again. For some reason, they chose not to read to me the big red letters that indicated that I was not registered in their computers and that even if I turned in 75 forms the same week, I could not interview through them. That means that week in and week out, my forms were labeled with these scarlet letters and the wonderful, helpful peo­ple who take our $20 and are supposed to have a shred of interest in our future chose not to Jet me know I was not registered. I sup-
getting hired. Week in and week out since then, howev­er, I have had to deal with the disappointment of being "shut out" by everybody I have been hoping to inter­view with. 
Beyond this disappointment though, there was a pound­ing curiosity in my mind that stemmed from the fact that I seemed to be the only student I knew that had no sheet available for them that listed their interview history. I should explain that every stu­dent that turns in a "Preference Form" should have a sheet, regardless of whether or not you got an interview. I had filled in 
'My message to my 
classmates is sim­ple. You cannot trust these people. If you find that you are being con­stantly "shut out" and especially if you have no sheet with your name on it, stop by and say hi to these people and then demand that they check your registration.' 
pose they felt I enjoyed filling out preference forms and spending ungodly amounts of time in the basement of the library and that I was fully aware that I was not regis­tered. 
My message to my class­mates is simple. You cannot trust these people. If you find that you are being constantly "shut out" and especially if you have no sheet with your name on it, stop by and say hi to these people and then demand that they check your registration. They seem con­tent with having no concern with your future as long as they have your money, and letting you do all the work of 
numerous forms, and had even filled out more than the allowed one form maximum for one week (this is important, make a note). Yet, I had no sheet. 
On Monday, Oct. 2, I stopped in at Career and Placement Services to question why I had no sheet. I explained how I had turned in many forms, gotten listed as an alternate for one company, and signed on for an interview with another company and still had no sheet. This seemed to surprise the C&P lady, who seemed sure that I had made some mistake. Surely the brain trust of C&P could never make a mistake regarding a student. The kick­er here is that they did. 
The lady pulled my file, and the first docu­ment she found was the receipt from my $20 registration fee. She then pulled my most recent Preference Forms (the ones I said to remember), which had some interesting writ­ing on them. In big red letters was the phrase "NO REG". Translated, this means no registra­tion. The lad-tried to claim that I had paid them $20 and yet did not register. This meant that every one of my Preference Forms was simply discarded because I was allegedly not registered.· I had gotten no interviews because insuring that those "minor" details are taken care of. 
Hemember that this is a business. These people take payment and perform a service. They aren't caring, concerned parents or friends, but business people who are obsessed with the almighty dollar. They do a shady job of providing their service, but it is a service none the less. As their customer you have a right to know that they are doing their best to perform their service, and if they aren't, they have an obligation to correct the problem. Over one month of possible future jobs is wast­ed for me. I am lucky that I was curious because this debacle could have continued indefinitely and I would be completely screwed-You all need to make sure that everything is properly set up at their office, because they will never tell you. Since it is clear they have no concerns about your future if it inconveniences them at all, it becomes your responsibility to care even more. Stop by, demand some answers, and good luck with the job hunting. 
KENCHARDOS 
Senior 
OfT-Campus 
---~---.----------~~ ------------~---------~ 
;ACCENT
page 12 Thursday, October 26, 1995 
• AlBUM REVIEW 
Tears for Fears: Back in the Big Chair 

By KEVIN DOLAN Music Critic 
I
f you lost track of Tears For Fears after 1985's breakthrough album Songs From The Big Chair, you haven't missed much in terms of output. Roland Orzabal and crew have only released four albums of original material in the last ten years, the result of cre­ative differences and tension between Orzabal and departed co-founder Curt Smith. 
Their new album, Raoul and the Kings ofSpain, was only two years in the making, but its release was delayed for over four months. If the delay was used to firm up the album, it was time well spent. 
The lineup of Orzabal, Alan Griffiths and Brian Macleod, bolstered by several session players, has put out another Tears' album that goes beyond pop, and the sound they've found is very much their own. 
Of course, that's not a difficult statement to make. In today's three-chord world, an album like Raoul is almost an anachronism. If you're a Weezer fan, don't bother. 
In fact, early predictions are that this album won't sell too well in today's market. That's really a shame. On Raoul, Orzabal sends out a firm reminder to the rest of the music world: this friends is a craft and a lit­tle atmosphere can take a band a long way. 
TFF has long left their synth-pop days of yore. Orzabal, who has always been an underrated guitarist, opens up the throttle on songs like the title track and "Sorry." "Don't Drink the Water" is another track that rocks as hard, and with more style and substance, than a lot of other groups out there. They've never been known specifically for their instrumental skill, but on Raoul TFF shows off chops that bands used to envy. 
This situation is the obvious problem. There's a fine line between atmospheric and overproduced, and that line is walked very tightly throughout Raoul. "Secrets," a prospective single, is a turgid power-ballad (surely you jest!) that has too much sound. 
Orzabal has developed a taste for faux-string arrangements, and in songs like "Secrets" and "God's Mistake," they hover in the background like the sound­track to a highlight film. 
The slow songs, while poignant for the most part, move just a little too slowly. However, Orzabal redeems the misses with his voice. Alternating between sweetly smooth and piercingly intense, Orzabal still possesses one of the most distinctive and appealing sets of pipes in the business. 
The poignant quality of the songs is a nice touch. The title track follows the origin of the title, stories Orzabal tells his son (the album's namesake). It's remi­niscent of a father sitting at his son's bedside, giving him the bad news: "Did you know all mothers come from heaven/ Did you know all fathers come from hell?/ That is why they're at sixes and sevens/ That is why their marriage isn't well." 
Orzabal the writer is not given to the habit of self­analysis, but on songs like "Secrets," "I Choose You," and "Me and My Big Ideas," he does a lot self-analyz­ing. It's a refreshing change and might be the one respect in which Tears For Fears is catching up with the rest of 'em. Confessionals are in these days. Now, if Orzabal could just lose a few chords and years of prac­tice on his craft... _ 
Still, you have to admire TFF for daring to put out an album like this one. They're in a similar situation to groups like Pink Floyd against the Sex Pistols. 
In the late seventies, low talent and high attitude beat musical virtuosity every time, and a similar cli­mate exists today. Tears For Fears wins points for putting out an album that fiercely refuses to cater to trends, which is more than can be said for R.E.M. Let the punks play on: this is the 90's version of Tears For Fears, and it's sweet to hear. 
• CONCERT PREVIEW 
Foday Musa Suso and the Mandingo Griot Society 
Barry Black 
Barry8/pck 
Alias Records 
++++ 
out of five 
E 
~~:~~~n;~·;~~o~0~!:~~:!.~:ch::~~J · Loaf, embarks on that possibly perilous solo journey into the unsafe reJl.}In of ~x]perimen•. 1 tal music. But daring Mr. Bacbr·nl:ann P·l'o,,esto a wily Odysseus, as he employ$ the competent musicians who play im!_tl'111Qen1~s varied as the moog, banjo, and obscure woodwinds _ .... __ ·' Barry Black is quite more than a "bte'iitb of fresh air" or a "successful transition." It isorigi­nality itself. Creative in the e~reme;tbi:s releasE) · boasts loudly of Bachmann's instrumentalmas· tery, dynamic musicianship, and superb S()ng­writing skills. Barry Blackis not dry, however, as Bachmann retains his sense of bumor--just listen to the Jiving, crawling ~coc:kroaches," or Fiddler-on-the-Roof-esque "Animals are Eating." Not a genre go~s unexpl()re~ as Black's versatility is captured iijtbe "Sandviken Stomp," the disturbing, tttt•~-"'"'"'''t.-.r~ "Rabid Dog," and the foray into ro<:kabU!y e1ntj• 
1 
tied "Cowboys and 'thieves." The most 'Nn1n,.,..,.. 
able achievements of Barry Black are 
Bachmann defeats Scylla by conip .. 
painfully unique new album, and that he 
evades Charybdis by freeing himself from 
pretentious quality normally associated 
"experimental" music. 
Tune in to WVFI 640 AM today from 5 p.m. to (i 
p.m. to hear Barry Black · 
By SARAH CASH ORE Assistant Accent Editor 
T
radition: it is a word we often hear at Notre Dame. Tonight at Stepan Center, tradition will come to life through the music of Foday Musa Suso and the 
Mandingo Griot Society. Sponsored by the Notre Dame 
African Students' Association (NDASA) with the support 
of several other campus organizations, this concert of 
music and dancing is reflective of the theme of Tradition 
& Modernity in Africa & Diaspora which the NDASA has 
chosen to guide its activities for 1995-1996. 
Hailing from the West African nation of the Gambia, roday Musa Suso is from a long line··of musicians. In the 
Mandingo culture of Western Africa, Suso is known as a 
griot, or guardian of oral tradition, one who preserves 
the history of an ethnic group and transfers that history 
to future generations. 
Although Suso was born and raised in the Gambia's 
Mandingo culture and was trained as a master of the 
kora, a traditional 21 string African guitar, his music is 
not solely traditional Mandingo music. "For me, music is 
universal, and when I play with the band, we often play 
things which are not traditional at home. My music is a 
fusion -we are not playing just Mandingo music from 
the Gambia," Suso notes. It is this fusion of traditional 
and modern which makes Foday Musa Suso and the 
Mandingo Griot Society so unique, and it is this fusion 
which so eloquently expresses NDASA's theme. In the 
words of NDASA president Guillaume Zounlome, "Their 
performance will show that tradition and modernity are 
not necessarily incompatible and that both can some­
times be reconciled to benefit all society members." 
Suso dubs his musical blend of tradition and modernity 
"Gamberican." The traditional elements of this musical 
style are representative of the musical tradition of not 
only Western Africa, but also of the African nation. 
According to Zounlome, "Most African music is com­
posed for the combination and reconciliation of tradi­
tional and modern instruments. African musicians 
always go back to their roots." Suso's music does indeed 
look to these roots while integrating traditional styles with modern influences. 

Since leaving the Gambia in 1968 to begin touring, Suso has expanded and developed his musical style, working with a variety of musicians along the way. In addition to his work with the Mandingo Griot Society, Suso has performed and recorded with jazz greats Don Cherry and Herbie Hancock and has composed music for the Kronos String Quartet. 
Although Suso has lived in Chicago since 1977 and has toured all over the world, this will be his first trip to Notre Dame. The NDASA has been pleased with the overwhelming support it has received from campus co­sponsors and encourages all to welcome Foday Musa Suso and the Mandingo Griot Society and to share their musical fusion. 
Foday Musa Suso and the Mandingo Griot Society will be performing tonight at Stepan Center at 7:00 pm. Tickets are $5 for the general public and $3 for students and are available at the Lafortune Information Desk and at the door. 
Rob Adams 
Always in our thoughts and prayers. He will be greatly missed by the Accent staff. 

·--------~------------·------~ 
Thursday, October 26, 1995 
, This is Leo Kottke's twenty-sncond album 

and it's a line outing. Tlw very livnly audience is obviously enthralled and no wonder considering the phenomenal way Kottke handles his guitar, quirky lyrics, and sui gennris sense of humor. Kottke is without a doubt one of the finest acoustic guitarists in the world and he gives himself' ample space to rnvnal his chops here. 
Officially classified as folk on his WWW page, Kottke's playing easily transcends categorization: in gnneral he is too busy to be canonical folk and too straight to wear the jazz label. 
Included amongst the in­strumentals on the album is the popular favorite 
ACCENT 

Live 
On the Spot Records 
***~ 
out of five 
-by Tim Bayne 
the rules of over-saturation via video and FM outlets). "Water's Edge" is similarly dark and cunning, introducing the disc with a fundamen­tally sound punch. 
One of the more interesting features of 7 Mary 3 is the vocal ability of singer/guitarist Jason Ross. While not technically proficient in his deliv­ery, he sings with great abandon and his hoarse­ness adds what appears to be clarity of emotion to his words. Unfortunately. he tends to overuse the shouting a bit, so it can grow tiresome to lis­ten to over time. 
Curiously enough, Ross' highlight is his biggest departure from the usual 7 Mary 3 style. "Punch In, Punch Out" employs nothing more than drums and Ross' voice, but it. is a joyful tune of release, with a wry chorus, ''I'm only one ciga­rette away from mobility." Different and daring, this song, while not exactly radio-friendly, demonstrates Giti Khalsa's percussion skills and eomes as a relief from the rest of the rock. 
American Standard has one flaw--it sounds a lot like a smorgasbord of the many standards in arena rock which have proliferated lately. Using such gimmicks as occasionally lo-li vocals and at­tempting to tackle a broad range of subjects using broad strokes only serves to remind the lis­tener that it's powerful rock, but it's rather trendy nonetheless. This may cause confusion in the listener, as some of the lyrics, themes, and ehords seem interchangeable with those of a plethora of current popular favorites. 
However, this album is a good start for a bunch of boys fresh out of the College of William and Mary. They seem to have a solid direction in album with more than gui­tar-oriented interest. Kottke has a wonderful talent for putting words to tunes and one can only wish he'd do it more often. Surely the stand-aut track must be the wry "Jack Gets Up" from his 1989 release My Father's Face. Who else but Kottke could pen such an unforgettable line as "Some of us breathe in the brown ground where the worms clown?" 
Kottke seems to relish performing live: the banter is extensive, apparently spontaneous, and terribly funny. Musicians often labor under the mistaken illusion that they are as funny as they are musical: Kottke is as funny as he is musical. 
Kottke is certainly not 
,._ 
page 13 

W8NDTop20 
1. 
Jeff Buckley-Grace 

2. 
Dog's eye view-happy nowhere 

3. 
Garbage-Garbage 

4. 
Self-subliminal plastic motives 

5. 
Cowboy Junkies-200 more miles 

6. 
Filter-short bus 

7. 
Lir-Nest· 

8. 
Chris Isaak-Forever'Blue 


9. Buffalo Tom-Sieepy-e~ed 
10. 
Lisa Loeb and Nine Stdries-Tails 

11. 
Red Hot Chilli Peppers-One hot minute 

12. 
love seed mama jump-Baked fresh~~ily 

13. 
Urge Overkill-exit tile ~ragon. 


., t, '< • ' 
14. 
Pet Shop Boys-altf!rnative .· .. 

15. 
Bo bud greene-wllatever 

• > 

16. 
Innocence Missiq~-gl.lw 

17. 
Son Volt-Trace .\\ 18. 


TopMO 
1$teely Dan-Alive in America 
i)
2. Alanis Mqrissette-Jagged Little Pill 
3. Green Daf~lnsomniac 
4. 
Indigo Girls-12:00 Curfew 

5. 
Presidents of the United States­. Presidents 

6. 
Bootie & The Blowfish-Cracked Rearview 

7. 
Friends Soundtrack ",.:· 

8. 
Oasis-What's the Story Morning Glo-! 

9. 
Foo Fighters-Foo Fighf,rs .· 

10. 
Blues Travler-Four 

11. 
Candlebox-Lucy ­

12. 
Eddie Levert & Gerald Levert-Father & Son 

13. AC/DC:Ballbrea.,r · 
14. Edwin McCain-ij,9q~r Among Thieves·· 

15. 
Dead Presidents~$oundtrack 

16. 
Lenny Kravitz-dircu~ 


17. B~u!~ s-N-Harmony-E.t999 ;' ·E!~'~ 

18.:·fe~l-Se~J"{ ~"~~ · •. 19•:~~~~~~·~~tch~t~Tigerlily 
. 
"William Powell," the dazzling "Airproofing," the scintillating "I Yelled at Traffic," and a playful version of the Platters' classic "Twilight Time," a song which Kottke also covered on his last studio album Peculiaroso. 
Kottke's 'real' songs and tall stories provide the everyone's beverage of choice, but those who appreciate virtuoso guitar work and strong song writing ought to listen to this album. He has described his voice as resembling the sound of a goose farting on a muggy day -you decide whether or not he's right. 


American Standard 
Mammoth Records 
***1f 
out of five 
S
even Mary Three (or 7 Mary 3 for the numerically inclined) is a hot up-and-coming rock outfit from Florida which will be mak­ing relatively big waves in the pond created by thn MTV jock-rock formula for success. 
Hot on the heels of their self-released album last year and thn warm reception it received in the south, 7 Mary 3 capitalizes on every current trend in modern rock to deliver the goods on American Standard. This album sounds big, and it is delivered with corresponding expectations, whieh are fulfilled for the most part. 
r~ page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, October 26, 1995 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
~ Classifieds 
I I 
i 
I 
' 
'I 
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and NEEDED: 2 NAVY GA'S; 1 BC Selling your BC ticket?? '**'**4 SALE .... Break1ast Inn has space available STUD; CALL MICHAEL AT 273-Call Kelly @ 277-9695 1 BC Std. Tkt.
NOTICES 
tor football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­I NEED 2 BC GA's 4389 CALL4-4678 vate baths. Located in Middlebury, I have lots of $$ TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX 30 miles from campus. 1-800-41 8-Call mel!! Please!I!Pieaselll WILLIAM FITZGERALD 9487 DAVE B. 273·0391 Need B.C. Tickets needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA) and ALL HIS FRENZ Call MElli Contact Kevin @ 1233 Need two GA's and one student are LOSERS ROOM IN QUIET, CLEAN HOME. I have lots of $$ call dan at 273-6183 if you can help ticket for the BC game, 
SAFE AREA. KITCHEN PRIV. I NEED 2 BC GA's Need 1 BC ticket out. thanx. or three GA's. FEMALE ONLY. $200/MO. Call Scott, x4479 call Melinda x4967 
ATTENTION: JOB SEEKERS 282-2576. TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX A FULL YEAR JOB OPPORTUNI­IN DIRE NEED: TY FOR AN AMBITIOUS -CRE­A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS of 2 BC std tix (or GAs) Desperately seeking ATIVE-CARING -INDIVIDUAL WILLIAM FITZGERALD GA'S TO ANY/ALL Bob/Billy 273-4212 3NAVYGAs. Fr Bob Lombardo, class '79, is and ALL HIS FRENZ HOME/AWAY GAMES. Will pay BIG BUCKS. Wanted: Tickets to BC and Navy. recruiting volunteers to help serve are LOSERS 219-232-0061,24 HAS. Call Ryan x0566. Please call Rachel 634-1675. at the St Anthony Residence for for­I NEED BC GA'S BADLY merly homeless men located in CALL MIKE AT 273·1718 FOR SALE N.D. G A s New York City. There is a tremen­3 BEDROOM HOME 5 MINUTE TICKET-MART, INC. call271-9412 I'm selling 2 Navy GA's. dous variety of tasks you can help WALK TO ND GOOD AREA WANTED Call4-2514 with -ranging from counseling to 2n3o97 GA'S FOR ANY/ALL Need BC Tix-Jeff 1 828 I need B.C. tix!!l Either GA or stu­spiritual and recreational activities. HOME/AWAY ND GAMES. dent tix will do! Call nm at 634-I NEED 2 NAVY TICKETS!! You will be provided with room and ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE BUY*SELL *TRADE I need two GA's tor BC, 1148 GO IRISH! Call JILL x2272 board, health insurance, and a HOME FOR (219) 232-0058-24 HAS. call Carrie at 312-404-5590. stipend of between $150-$200 a ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE month. In addition, you will gain TO CAMPUS. Desparate alum needs 2 stud. tix I NEED USC, BC & NAVY real work-experience and the CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 for BC, call Tom at 312-528-1482. GA'S.272-6306 I need one Navy GA for Mom. opportunity to live you faith more PM I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME Please help. Call Alex -1969 fully. & ASK FOR SANDY. GAMES.272·6306 For Sale: I NEED NAVY GA OR STUD Fr Bob will be on campus Thursday 1 BC stud tix TIX-PLEASEI X4669 NEED 2 NAVY GA'sl Please call from 2-5pm and 7:30-9pm, and Need 1 roommate now & 1 more Hey. I need 2 Stanford tickets, 2 1 Navy GA Brigidx3764 Friday from 9:30-12pm and 2:30-next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273-Navy GAs and one USC GA. Call 1 NAVY GA NOT STUDENT SECT. 5pm, October 26-27, to discuss 2366 me atX2027. chris BEST OFFER BY THURS AT 5PM. Desperately seeking Phish how you can be a part of this excit­287-8648 CALL tickets for the Halloween show in ing project. He will meet with you at BED & BREAKFAST NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A. 1841. Chicago. Willing to pay $$$! the Center for Social Concerns. Lovely bdrm for 2 w/private bath. Please call Anne 634-3445. 2 STUDS AND 1 GA NEEDED Call Tim -3363 Stop by, or call Patty at the Center For ND/SMC parents & friends. FOR FAMILY UP FOR BC GAME!II Willing to trade BC GA for BC (631-5142) to schedule an appoint­Navy weekend. 277-6323. I NEED BC & USC GA'S PLEASE CALL SIMON 273-4674 student GA. Call Matt @ 2 BC GA's FOR SALE!! ment. CALL 288-2877 273-9650 Call Sean @3664 and leave 
NEED 2 NAVY GA'S best offer! 
FOR SALE
Bed & breakfast, BC game, near I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's Brian @ X4245 I need two BC student tix UNO campus, 219-277-6832 Please call ALISA 271-8346 $30 each, Potter @ 232-2955 NEED 2 GA'S FOR NAVY!II ND Ski Team T-Shirtsl I have 3 student tickets to BC!I CALL CHRIS X-1953 
....................
KEITH-WE'RE SORRY ABOUT -------------------Call Sean @3664 Need BC stud and GA tix THE AD. WE KNOW YOU'RE NOT Really cool and only $101 NEED NAVY TIXI and leave best otter! Eric 233·4435 REALLY A TRANSVESTITE! Call Potter @ 232-2955 today! II AMY 616-473-2636 
PERSONAL
Have 2 BC std tx for sale Need 4 B.C. GA's or stud tix Spring Break Bahamas Party Great for you, your roomie, or I need tickets to BC and Navy. #3959 Call Brian x3467 Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days Christmas presents! Please call Bryan at 272-4249 $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 I NEED GA'S FOR NAVY. PLEASE NEED B.C. TICKETS!!!! WILLIAM FITZGERALD Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlifel PHISH FOR SALE CALL MEGAN X2638. call Chris at 273-4674 and ALL HIS FRENZ Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 PHISH FOR SALE I NEED BC TICKETS-STUDENT are LOSERS Spring Break Travel 1-800-678-Two Phish GAs for the Kalamazoo OR GAlli! PLEASE call Megan at Let's Deal! I need two tickets for Wanted: 4 Football Tickets for 6386 show on Oct. 27, 1995 are for sale. x4268 the Navy game, GAs preferably. Boston College Game. Call Collect 
Call Jen at x4965. 913-233-5826 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Spring Break! Panama City! Early Best otter by this Thursday (26) at LaFortune Student Center Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room noon gets them. WILLIAM FITZGERALD Need 2 BC GA /Stud., will pay $80 LOOKING FOR BC GAs. CALL We're open for your convenience! II With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best and ALL HIS FRENZ a pair. Please call Brian @ 3322 RACHEL @ X2781. Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Tomx1157 are LOSERS Fri.: 7:30am-7:00pm Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 Need 2 BC GA/stud., will pay up to HELP! Desperately seeking 2 GA's Sat.: Noon -6:00pm & 12/15! 1-800-678-6386 1988 FORD ESCORT GL FOR $80 a pair. Please call Brian 3322 for Navy. Call Sarah @ 273-6875. Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
SALE,4DR,NC,89500 MILES, (closed home football Saturdays) Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break ASKING $1600 OBO.CALL Need BC & Navy tix. Stud/GA's. NEEDED BC TICKETS! Students Need 1 Stud Navy Ticket Specialsl111% Lowest Price YANNIS@6317709 282-1638. or GA's call Nate at 273-5281 Call Patty@ 4015 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!l Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Long Woman's COAT, twd, brwn Need two Navy Tickets NEED 2 BC GA's I need 2 GA's and 2 stud tix THE COPY SHOP Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Ieath collar, sz 8 $75*Ciassic-style Call Lara at x4416 HAVE 2 NAVY GA's for Navy call X11 03 LaFortune Student Center Spring Break Travel 1-800-678-bridesmd DRESS nvy,long, 2pc, sz Willing to trade tix + $ ask for Dave H Phone 631-COPY 6386 6 $75 2n.7263 NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Paul Call Jim at 4x3371 to Make a deal! 0o0o0o0c0c0c0o0c0o0o0 
collect at (216) 974-7142. I need tix for BC! student or GA WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN NEED TICKETS FOR BOSTON call Beth x27 45 Jack­810W4TH MISH. "SPRING BREAK '96-SOME­Need 2 Navy GA's COLLEGE. CALL JOE AT 1610. l'm a cheap date. Let's do $1 night MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 THING YOU CAN'T MISS" it is crucial I get them! I NEED BC GA'S at Cactus Jack's aga1n. Tonight. WED OPEN JAM 9 PM BOOK EARLY & $AVE $30!!! call ASAP @634-2604 1 B.C. Student Ticket Needed CALL KEVIN @ 234·2952 I'm serious. THURS IRISH MUSIC 9 PRICE INCREASE JAN.1, 1996 Call Jeff at 277-3469 and Josie 2BLKS S. OF 100 CTR TRIP TO JAMAICA: MONTEGO leave a message. NEED: BC Tix-Student or GA 255-0458 NEED ID BAY, NEGRIL *, CANCUN, SOUTH I NEED 3 TICKETS FOR BC. FAM· call Matt 273-9650 Buy Jen a Honey Brown 
PADRE, BAHAMAS, PANAMA IL Y COMING ALL OF THE WAY NEED STUDENT TIX FOR BC!I!I CITY, & DAYTONA BEACH FROM NJ. CALL ALEX@3504 NOT GOING TO NAVY? THE PACKAGE INCLUDES: CALL DAWN x4990 TICKET TRADE: Seeking 1 BC GA. Well, the American Cancer Society 
ILOST & FOUND I 
• ROUNDTRIP SCHED­I will trade 2 Navy GA's for Willing to trade 2 Navy GA's. Call needs you to donate your ticket for 
ULED AIR & COMMERICAL Need 1 Stud.Tix 4 BC 2 BC GA's 203-264-7164 if interested. the Pediatric Cancer Patients of BIG REWARD for info. leading to CHARTER FLIGHTS It's for my little sis! I will also buy any add'l BC GA's Memorial Hospital. Please drop off the return of bike "taken" Oct. 2 -ROUNDTRIP TRANFER Brian X3410 you have. Two BC tickets. Call x3247. your ticket book by Tues. (1 0/31) at behind Cav. hall: sky blue, schwinn BETWEEN AIRPORT & HOTEL X4070, ask tor Norm! the CSC. Any questions? Call 10 spd., 70's model, big sentimen­-$150 BONUS PARTY NEED 2 BC GA's NEED TWO BC TIX. PLEASE Nicole@ 4-1318. tal value -call 4-3504 PACK FOR JAMAICA & CANCUN Kevin @ 273-8709 NEEDED: B.C. tix, stu. or GA. Will CALL KEVIN AT x2104 IF YOU 
-DISCOUNTS TO trade Navy GA's + $. HAVE ANY AVAILABLE. TATMAN IS FINALLY 21! BEACH AND EVENING PARTIES, NEED TWO G.A.'S FOR B.C. Molly 3490 Wishing you a happy birthday, a ••••• LOST •••• REGGAE CLUBS, WATER­call Scott x0652 Need 1 NAVY STor GA Flaming Lambourghini and DOG­
SMALL GOLD HOOP SPORTS, & MANY MOREl! I NEED B.C. GA's Please calli BOL TEA (toss in a 40 year old lady, EARRING FOR MORE INFORMATION, CALL 273-5281 Melissa 1255 too) Love, the Billy Kings and their CALL 3709 234-3396 ASK FOR CHRISTINA. Need 1 BC Sudent Ticket loyal fans 
CALL NOW!! I II! DON'T WAIT. Pau!X4335 Need 1 BC ticket. Need BC and Navy tickets Michelle SUN SPLASH TOURS Call Joel at 3482. X4530 BONUS! FREE MCI CALLING INTERESTED IN SELLING YOUR Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­
WANTED 
CARD WITH FREE PHONETIMEIII BC TIX? Need 1 Navy Ticket for bro I need BC tix stud or GA!I rapher husband wish to adopt new­JUST BOOK BY NOV.15, 1995 I have a friend who would really PLEASE Call Tim 273-4389 call meg x4544 born. Will provide love, nurturing WANTED: TWO TICKETS FOR like to buy it from you. environ., educ., financial security. 
B. C. GAME. CALL 271-0989 EXPECTING? Beautiful, classic, Call Myron-X1195 FOR SALE: 2 BC GAs. 273-9838. I NEED BC GA's I STUD's Hollywood Hills home has large 
white crib and changing table for PAUL X3434' PLEASE!!! back yard and loving dog. Call HELP WANTED addressing sale. Includes mattress, sheets, We need 2 BC GAs!! Please call 81 8/241-5535 collect. Legal & envelopes. Work at your residence bumper pad, and ruff. Two years collect, 616-496-4595. Thanks! Need 2 BC # Confidential. in your spare time. $250+/week old and in excellent condition. Married Stud or GA # possible! (31 0)804-5587 24 hrs. $250. Call631-6479. Christi x4849 TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING 
We need 2 BC GAs. Please call Need BCtix BREAK '96 I@#$%$"&*"(&*%#%#$ collect 616-496-4595. Thanks! I NEED BC student tix or GA Form a group of 15 and travel WILLIAM FITZGERALD 's Elect guitar perfect cond $225 obo call Ted x1856 -Bryan x1919 FREE + earn $$$ FRIEND Is a LOSER amp free 273-5380 Badly Needed: CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE, !@#%"&"&*"& 2 BC GA's # BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, CARNIVAL 
88 Toyota Tercel, exl con, 68k, Please Call Matt at 4-1213 I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­need roomate 4 2ndsem.call 273-AIC, $3500. FOR SALE 2 BC & 2 NAVY GA'S ed. (800)574-7577 ext. 302 4569monique 277-3503. Will trade 2 Navy GA's for 2 BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC W/PARK. PASS; ACCOM. AVAIL. 
GA's Sean x1109 I need BC GAs ... call x3975 IF NEEDED. CALL 277-8340. Babysitter-ECDC student pref­MACINTOSH COMPUTER for sale. BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC BC WILLIAM FITZGERALD ered. $5.00 per hour. About 6-8 hr. Complete system including printer SALE NEED TICKETS FOR THE and ALL HIS FRENZ per week. Call Lea 272-5029. only $499. Call Chris at 1-800-665-BC STUDTIX BOSTON COLLEGE GAME. GA'S are LOSERS 
4392 ext. 9537 2718154 HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! AND STUDETS. CALL JOE AT Graduated Student needs X1846. 2 GAs tor parents tor NAVY FOR SALE I NEED USC AND BC TIX 
TICKETS 
FOR RENT 
game. Please call Brad at as many as possible, NEED TICKETS FOR BOSTON Hey Iii Leah! Kector and the Gabas 634-5118. Price negotiable. 4GA-50 YARD LINE TIX students or GAs COLLEGE. CALL 4-1854. wanted to wish you a very happy HELP! HELP! HELP! FOR BCGAME birthday and they hope that you I NEED two STUDENT TICKETS please call NORM @ 232-2955 The Fate of the Entire School have a very niiiiiiiiice day, okay? FOR THE B.C. GAME. PLEASE Rests in Your Hands!!! If I don't get love, Iii e 
CALL ME AND SELL ME YOUR CALL 271-8154 OR Thanks for your Support! two tickets for the BC game, there's HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND TICKET. JANICE X2721 (312) 929-7020 no telling what my father might do. socks 232-2595 Call Brian@ x1741 
see CLASS I page 18 
.... 
Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sanders receives first start Busch reveals plan 
By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas 
Deion Sanders is the busiest Cowboy on the practice field. One minute he's wearing a blue jersey and playing defense, the next minute he's wearing a white jersey and is on offense, and the next he's over with the special teams returning kicks. 
"I just can't wait to see him in aetion on Sunday, I hope we get to see his touchdown dance," said Emmitt Smith of Sanders' Dallas debut at Allanta on Sunday. 
Sanders will be coming at his former team from two direc­tions, and maybe three. 
He'll start on defense in place of Clayton Holmes and is ex­pected to play on offense where the coaches have a trick play they might spring on the Fal­cons. He also might be on the special teams should coach Barry Switzer feel he is needed. 
Atlanta coach June Jones knows the Falcons will get hit with the complete package. 
"Nobody is more aware than I am what he can do on of­fense," Jones said. "If he was a fulltime receiver he'd be in the Pro Bowl. As a receiver he will be the fastest guy on the field. When he catches the ball, he 
a touchdown to trigger a 42-3
lJNIVEH.SITY OF NOTRE DAME 
rout by San Francisco last year and finished it off with his high­
INTEHNATIONAI. STlJI>Y I'IWGRAM IN 

stepping strut into the end zone. 
Sanders said earlier this week the Falcons never made a bid to keep him. 
"They never offered me a dime," he said. "They were not at the same level I wanted to be on. I wanted to win the Super 
Bowl. So, I had to move on." 
TOLEDO, SPAIN 
even gets faster." 
On defense, Sanders' talents are self evident as the 1994 winner of the NFL's defensive player of the year. 
"He's the best cover corner to ever play the game," Jones said. 
As a kick returner, Jones rates Sanders the best in the NFL. 
"There's nothing he can't do," Jones said. "We even had him at quarterback on goal line situations to run the option." 
With all this talent, it's a wonder the Falcons ever let Deion go. They did. And they've already paid once. 
Sanders returned an interception 93 yards for 
to sell Cardinals 
By JIM SALTER 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Anheuser-Busch announced today it was putting the Cardi­nals up for sale to focus on its core businesses of beer, theme parks and aluminum cans. 
"We have concluded that this is no longer a compatible fit," said John Jacob, the brewery's chief communications officer. 
Jacob said the company had again achieved record third­quarter sales and earnings, but "the challenge of achieving them is becoming increasingly difficult." 
In addition to selling the Car­dinals, Jacob said the brewery would sell its Eagle Snacks divi­sion, which makes pretzels, potato chips, peanuts and other snack foods, close its Tampa, Fla., brewery, and reduce wholesale beer inventories by about a third. 
·Jacob said the brewery hoped to keep the baseball club in St. 
Flowers, Roses,
INFORMATION MEETING FLOWERS WITH 
Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED
PROFESSOR TERESA LEUGERS Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
c§r7 DAYSc§r 
Plush Animals and Gifts 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 26, 1995 
7:00 PM 
,asy tatGh 
119 DEBARTOLO 
Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered51400 US 31 North 24 Hours a Dey
south Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
277·1291 or 1·800·328·0206 
Louis and was also offering for sale Busch Stadium and its parking garages. 
"St. Louis fans are the best in baseball. They have been gen­erous in support of the Cardi­nals and indeed in Anheuser­Busch," Jacob said. 
"It is our objective that they continue to be able to enjoy Cardinals baseball well into the future." 
"I also assure you that we will continue to take every step to provide a winning team to our fans while we continue to own the club," he said. "That is why we proceeded with our negotiations with Tony La Russa, who is our new man­ager and one of the best man­agers in all of professional baseball." 
lie added that the company also would continue with plans to install natural grass at Busch Stadium and to "sign the most outstanding available talent for the club." 
The announcement caught many by surprise. 
Analyst Lawrence Adelman of Dean Witter Reynolds said be­fore the announcement said that both the Cardinals and Eagle Snacks "are a small drain on their business, but so small relative to the total. And I think they get a lot of side ben­efits -advertising, a straight involvement in sports." 
Anheuser-Busch bought the Cardinals in February 1953 from Fred Saigh for $2.5 mil­lion. 
DICI( VITALE IS -• HOLDING COURT 
Join Hammes Notre Dame 
Bookstore in welcoming legendary 
ESPN and ABC-TV college 
basketball analyst Dick Vitale 
for two book signings 
this weekend. 



page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 1995 
• OlYMPICS 
USOC cracks down on drug abuse 
•NBA 
O'Neal sidelined for two months 
Associated Press good tactic, but it's not right. 
I've got to he able to protect 
ORLANDO, Fla. myself." 
Shaquille O'Neal will have Geiger said the Heat's strat~ surgery on his broken right egy was to foul O'NealJf he thumb and may be sidelined got t~e ball in too close. . . . until just before New Year's. '·' · •·•· as a ju~t. a normal 
"lwant to be playing by s{l-i(!.;:t<thert). Christmas, but J'm not going rsonal about it, to rush anything," O'Neal said e the Heat's B ·••• Wednesday. "My team is good Ov\'~ns;it 4You're going to get enough to where they can fc::n.tled because he's not a hold their own without me." go6dfree throw shooter. You 
The 7~foot center who led got to expect that." the Orlando Magic to the NBA But some of O'Neal's team· Finals last season is to have mates were bitter. an operation Thursday, a ''Allard foul is a hard foul, minor procedure to repair a biitllofwhen you're out there piece of the bone in his trying to hurt somebody," Ho• thumb. ra.¢~ Grant said. ''That foul 
"He will be out of competi· · lous.'' tive basketball for approxL . M rio word bow th~ mately six to eight weeks {1-fter fUlthe ce~ter sp~t surgery;· Dr. Richard Shure u~;d{ they signed vetera~ of the Jewett Orthopaedic Jon. oficakas O'Neal's back+ Clinic said Wednesday after up during the offseason. examining O'Neal. ''Obviously I'm not going to 
O'Neal said his thumb was pro-vide the offense that, bent back flat Tuesday night Shaquille did, but that's not when he was raked across the why they brought me here,'', hand by Miami center Matt Koncak said. "I came here to Geiger on a move to the bas· help With the defense and re­ket in the second quarter of boun(!.ing and step in ifthere the Magic's 106-91 exhibition was. an emergency;" . ' victory. ln 'J'uesda;r's .· ganlEl, 01Neal 
Geiger was not called for a ~s~e~ wit~ 11 points in 13. foul. In fact, O'Neal was called mintrtesi!'He was 4•for*6 from for traveling as he spun along the ;field.and 3~for-4 from tM. the baseline and went for foulline. He was averaging· what looked like a dunk. 22,8 point a game during pre-
Immediately after the season. . injury, O'Neal was furious and In his three seasons, O'Neal threatened to "show ... some has missed only three games of my Shaq~Fu sturr· to any because of injury. Last season other player who put a similar he averaged 29:3 points, 11.4 move on him. rebounds and 2.4 blocks to 
By WedneSMX· O'Neal had lead the Magic to the Eastern cooled off. ' , · Conference championship and 
"It's not a matter of getting finals for the first time. revenge anymore, it happened E~eryon(l' on this ~~am .•.· and now it's over!'O'Neal vvould·rather.·b(:)playing with••·.· said. "But somebody needs to Sh ·· Je than ·without him; do something. I think some but no use talking about coaches tell their players to · Y\'hat y(}u don't have," Magic come in and chop me and coach Brian Hill said. !'We've.·.· hope I get mad and throw a got to have our guys elev~tte< punch or something and get their game someand go with thrown out. I guess that's a what we have." 
CINE. AAT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

Monday 1 0/30 
Tuesday 10/31 
THE HORROR 
CHAN IS MISSING 
OF DRACULA 
7pm
7pm 
SISTER OF THE GION 
MAKING MR. RIGHT 
9pm
9pm 
World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html> 
By LARRY SIDDONS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The U.S. Olympic Committee is prepared to pay for and run the strictest anti-doping pro­gram in international sports. 
Dick Schultz, the USOC's ex­ecutive director, said Wednes­day that a new task force he heads would finalize the out-of­competition drug-test plan in time to present it to the panel's board of directors in April. 
That would appear to be the deadline for the plan, already postponed once, to be in place in time to affect the selection of most of the U.S. teams for the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. 
''I'm going to go into the room, lock the door and tell them we're not leaving until we get an agreement," Schultz said, 
And rather than ask the 41 sports that make up America's Olympic teams to conduct the tests as originally proposed, Schultz said, the USOC was ready to operate the program and pick up the estimated an­nual tab of more than $3 mil­lion. 
"It has to be our program," he said. "It has to be the USOC doing this, not a program for each sport." 
The proposed package would 
require American athletes to Last month, the USOC told its submit to random, short-notice 
as an hour, according to Dr. Don Catlin, a member of the In­ternational Olympic Commit­tee's medical commission and a widely respected expert on ille­gal performance enhancers, 
The short-notice test, which also could be conducted at some USOC events, would be in addition to the committee's ex­isting series of doping exams, Schultz said. 
Anti-doping programs cur­rently make up about $6 mil­lion of the USOC's $415 million four-year budget. 
Most international sports fed­erations and national Olympic committees conduct some type of anti-doping program. But none are as extensive as the testing web envisioned by the usoc. 
Schultz estimated the random tests would cost "$3 million­plus each year," based on costs of similar college programs conducted while he was execu­tive director of the NCAA. 
The USOC is trimming about $65 million from its next four­year budget but Schultz and LeRoy Walker, the committee's president, said the new drug­test expense was one that had to be picked up. 
"Even at $3 million, if we get it under control for that, it would be a blessing," Walker said. 
drug tests away from competi­
1 Hour Therapeutic Massage with Dale
tion and training sites before they could be eligible for 
Houston ...$4500
Olympic teams. Those tests -with little ad­
Faces Artistic Design Center 
vance warning other than a 
547?7 Fir Road 255-5556
knock on the door -would be 
Mishawaka aimed at closing a gaping loop­hole in existing anti-doping 
Complete Set of Nails 
programs, 
...$3500 ~~ 
Under current procedures, an athlete has sufficient time to cleanse traces of most drugs, a 
Hair • Skin Care • Nails • Massages • Tanning 
process than can take as little Offer Good 'till 12/15/95 
We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 

member sports federations that they would have to conduct short-notice testing, which al­ready is in place at eight sports. That plan was pulled back, however, when some federa­tions complained about guaran­tees for athletes privacy rights and the high cost of the tests. Short-notice doping exams cost about $1,{)00 apiece. 
Walker and Schultz said there was unanimous agreement on the need for short-notice testing but the plan needed fine-tun­ing. 
"It's not far away," Walker said, "We need to get the rules in order." 
The two USOC leaders also expressed confidence that American athletes would not turn to medal-stand protests if they are beaten by Chinese ri­vals at next summer's Games, 
The Chicago Tribune earlier this month quoted Shaun Jor­dan, a swimming relay gold medalist in 1988-92, as saying that "some outrageous form of protest is possible" unless au­thorities take steps to guaran­tee that all Chinese competitors in Atlanta are drug-free, 
But Schultz said it was vital that international sports offi­cials, especially in swimming where Chinese women have dominated in recent years, take all steps possible to combat drug abuse, 
Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• BASEBALL 
Avery baffles Tribe, Braves take 3-1 lead 
By BEN WALKER 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND Even the Atlanta Braves will b«) hard-pressed to blow this. 
Tlw Braves, with Steve Avery starting ahead of Greg Maddux, moved within one victory of the World Series championship that has always eluded them, beat­ing the Cleveland Indians 5-2 Wednesday night for a 3-1 lead. 
Atlanta, whose postseason history is filled with failure, could not ask for a better posi­tion. 
Now Maddux, held back a day to rest, ean clinch it Thursday night in GamtJ 5 against Orel Jlershiser. Maddux, the three­tinw Cy Young winner, won the opmwr with a two-hitter. 
Even if they lose, the Braves will head home with two more chances to win. 
The stats are on their side, too: or the 39 teams taking a 3­1 mlge in the Series, 33 have won it. 
After sixth-inning homers by Hyan Klesko and Albert Belle left it tied at 1, the Braves broke it open with three runs in the seventh. Luis Polonia's go­ahead double chased Ken Hill, and David Justice hit a two-out, two-run single off Paul As­senmacher. 
"It felt really good because we needed that because we know what kind of team Cleveland has," Justice said. "The more runs we get ahead of them, the better for us." 
Doubles by Fred McGriff and Javier Lopez in the ninth added an insurance run against Alan Embree, and sent a few of the 43,578 fans to the exits at quiet Jacobs Field. 
A day after the Indians rapped 12 hits in a 7-6, 11-in­ning win, Avery Avery limited them to three hits over six in­nings. Greg McMichael followed with two scoreless innings. 
Mark Wohlers, whose 2 2-3­inning stint Tuesday night was his longest of the season, took over in the ninth with a 5-1 lead was tagged for Manny Ramirez's leadoff homer and a double by pinch-hitter Paul Sorrento. 
Manager Bobby Cox wasted 
BASEBALL PLAYOFF BRACKET 
DIVISION LEAGUE LEAGUE DIVISION SERIES CHAMPIONSHIP CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES (best-of-5) SERIES SERIES (best-of-5) Oct3-8 (best-of-7) (best-of-7) Oct. 3-8 
CLEVELAND·---, Oct.10-18 Oct. 1 0·18 ....----L.A. 
. INDIANS DOOGERS C·• LEVELAND , WORLD SERIES CINCINNATI 
. INDIANS· ··• (best-of-7) I REDS
.
BOSTON CINCINNATI 
___,.· .· Oct. 21-29 1 '---­
REO SOX REDS
1 
AMERICAN CLEVELAND ATLANTA NATIONAL ·--L-,EAGUE ._j··'~DIANS TBRAVEL~. LEAGUE
SEATTLE ATLANTA 
MARINERS BRAVES
SEATTLE ATLANTA . MARINERS ATLANTA · ' BRAVES
NEWYORK COLORADO YANKEES •---' LEADS 3·1. . ROCKIES. 
AP 
no time in bringing in Pedro lead over Minnesota, have they Avery, who earned this start 
Borbon, who struck out Jim been in such a good spot. That with six shutout innings in the 
Thome and Sandy Alomar and year, they lost the last two pennant-clinching win over 
retired Kenny Lofton on a liner games at the Metrodome to the Cincinnati on Oct. 14, managed 
to right in his second ap­Twins, and then Atlanta lost the to avoid trouble despite several 
pearance of the postseason and 1992 Series in six games to well-hit balls early in the game. 
first in 19 days. Toronto. After working his way Lofton went 0-for-5 one game Marquis Grissom had three through the lineup the first 
after reaching base in all six for the Braves. He scored the time and giving up two hits, 
plate apperances. go-ahead run in the seventh on Avery, who is 5-2 career in the Not since the 1991 Series, Polonia's double after drawing postseason, did not allow a hit when the Braves held a 3-2 a one-out walk. until Belle homered with two outs in the sixth. 
Belle had not swung all evening, taking seven balls and seven strikes, until lining an opposite-field drive into the Braves bullpen in right. 
Right before the pitch, Avery 
started and then stopped his 
windup. 
When he resumed, Belle hit his first Series homer, a shot that seemed to send Avery into a bit of a spin. 
Eddie Murray, after thinking he'd hit a double until being told by second-base umpire Joe Brinkman that his grounder down the left-field line was foul, walked on a full count. 
Avery then caught his cleats while going into his stretch, stumbled backward off the mound and was called for a balk. 
He went ahead and inten­tionally walked Ramirez and, perhaps sensing this was his last batter, struck out Herbert Perry swinging on a nasty, down-and-in slider. 
Avery, having thrown 109 pitches, was pulled after pre­serving the 1-1 tie. 
"Steve did an awesome job. He was under lot of pressure. A lot of people were second­guessing (manager) Bobby (Cox)," Justice said. "He did what we've seen him do a lot of times." 
The Braves came back to break it open, and McMichael relieved to start the bottom of the seventh with a 4-1 lead. 
Hill, who got to start because of seven shutout innings against Seattle in Game 4 of the AL playoffs, worked out of jams all evening. 
The Braves put a runner in scoring position in four of the first live innings without getting a run. Twice, Hill pitched around McGriff and walked him with a runner on third bnfore retiring Justice. 
When they faced each other in the NL, Justice was just 1­for-25 (.040) lifetime against Hill. McGriff. meanwhile, was 9-for-33 (.273) with three home runs off Hill. 
Klesko showed NL designated hitters could be effective, too, when he homered for the sec­ond straight night. 
Klesko, the DH while Polonia played left field, hit a drive into the right-center field stands with one out in the sixth for a 1-0 lead . 
.. . 
I•· ••·· 
f~--·.-~--~-.------------------~-~---------------,·~-~L-----------~-----------------------~---------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 1995
' I 
Heather the Great-Happy 21 stlI • Nfl See ya at the 'backer tonight ~ Class -The Queen of Everything 
continued from page 14 JENGAII
Marino expects early return 
f 
SABOR LATINO It's so Loose, it's Legal! 
By STEVEN WINE and defense," receiver O.J. most serious since he missed 
& -O'Conner Room Rules
I' Associated Press McDuffie said. "I think it's go­the final 11 games in 1993 with EMILY LORD ing to be the lift this team a ruptured Achilles' tendon. He
~ 
I 
I DAVIE, Fla. I A bruised hip and three con­secutive losses have left Dan Marino sore. I Surrounded at his locker Wednesday by 20 reporters and
I 
I 
cameramen, Marino grimaced, glared and gritted his teeth while answering questionsI about his likely return to the lineup Sunday against Buffalo. The Miami Dolphins' quarter­back appeared angry, and he is. ''I'm upset with the fact we're 4-3," he said. "I really believe we.'re a team that should be 7­0." Miami was 4-0 when Marino hurt his hip and tore cartilage in his right knee Oct. 8 against Indianapolis. The Dolphins lost that game, which Marino fin­ished, and the next two, which he missed. Marino practiced Wednesday for the first time since being hurt. He looked rusty and is listed as questionable for the game against AFC East rival Buffalo (5-2), but he expects to play. "I don't feel as good as I did at the beginning of the season, that's for sure," said Marino, 34. ''I'm not as healthy as I want to be. I've just got to go, and that's the way it is." Marino knows that the Dol­phins need him on the field. They've lost the past seven games he didn't start. "To see your team leader come back is going to be an in­spiration to both the offense 
3
·e 
(U 
(II 
u 
u; 
"'a 
c 
(II 
_o 
1:10 
·c:c 
(U 
a. 
0 

needs." 
Bernie Kosar started in place of Marino, throwing five inter­ceptions and losing two fumbles in losses to New Orleans and the New York Jets, both last­place teams. 
Marino bristled Wednesday at questions about the offensive line and team unity. But when asked if he's angry. Marino tried to smile. 
"I feel like we should have a better record. I'm upset be­cause of that," he said. 
"The last two weeks have been hard for me because I feel I could have made a difference in the games, and maybe we wouldn't be in the position that we're in." 
The injuries were Marino's 
underwent arthroscopic knee surgery Oct. 9, and doctors drained blood from his severely bruised left hip. 
"I never wore hip pads be­fore," Marino said, "but I will from now on." 
Back in the lineup, Marino will resume pursuit of NFL ca­reer passing records held by Fran Tarkenton for touch­downs, yardage and attempts. Marino broke Tarkenton's record for completions earlier this season, and the other records are within reach this season. 
But Marino's primary objec­tive remains his first Super Bowl ring. Miami was the pre­season favorite to win the AFC, but the losing streak has aroused doubts. 
Hey Seniors! 
Senior Dog book orders are due THIS FRIDAY, Oct. 27. Bring your photo, poll, and order form to the class office (2nd floor LaFortune) or send it campus mail. 
Thursday 10/26 10 pm Club23 
HEY ST. MARY's Please HELPI 
The NDCIBD is collecting USED EYEGLASSES to send to Honduras. 
Oct. 29 12-3pm St. Mary's Dining Hall WILLIAM FITZGERALD and ALL HIS FRENZ are LOSERS 
HEY SKIPPY· Quit falling asleep!! I You keep missing Manier's calls late at night. 
~RUN 0 's· 
P of Z Z A N 0 R T H 
US 31 North 273-3890 
Hours: 
Delivery 
'Till 1 AM Sun­273-3890 
Thurs Lunch and 
'Till2 AM Fri Regular Hours and Sat Lunch 11-2 
2 • 14 INCH PIZZAS -$10.50 INCLUDES TAX 
THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVA 
288-3320 
\ 


LaFortune Ballroom 

Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
Men 
continued from page 24 
fumbles against Grace, but tnam captain J.P. Fenningham knows Flanner still has a realistic chance at the title. 
"We just had a run of bad luck. We didn't make any ma­jor changes, and we're still con­fident." 
The Flanner oiTense will focus on its running game to counter Alumni's defensive attack. 
Zahm 
continued from page 24 
one interception and one fum­ble recovery, sometimes more. Not to mention, teams just seem to have a terrible time trying to complete passes against the "Hed Swarm." Most importantly, though, these guys are down right intense. Their intensity and aggressiveness keep them going from start to finish. Whereas the opposing team is wearing down toward tlw end of the game, the Zahm defense just keeps getting stronger and hungrier. 
"We'm aggressive and love to attack the other team's offense," said star junior line­backer/punter Jake Schaller earlier in the season. It is quite obvious that this mentality per­meates throughout the entire defense. Added senior defen­sive end Pat McDonough, "We're extremely aggressive and we hit hard." These guys aren't joking around. 
This attitude has been pre­sent from the first game of the season and has not died down at all since then. In that Week 1 contest against Fisher, Zahm recovered three fumbles, one of which Schaller returned for a touchdown. Also, Schaller picked off a pass. His play narned him Player of the Week honors, not an easy feat for a 
"The key to winning will be the offensive line," emphasized Fenningham. 
No. 2 Dillon vs. 
No. 7 Stanford 
Dillon might be the favorites going into Sunday's game, but Stanford's emotional win in their last contest served notice that they are capable of the up­set. 
Stanford played excellent de­fense in their last game. They held Morrissey to only one touchdown, and this is a trend Stanford hopes to continue in the playoiTs. · 
defensive player. The play of the defense in this game set the tone for the rest of the season. 
Not only is this defense great as a team, but it has its share of individual stars as well. The leader of the defense is Schaller. lie makes the plays and knows how to keep his teammates in the game. Interestingly, along with his hitting and tackling, he also punts. Zahm's defense rarely finds themselves backed up to their own goal line at the begin­ning of a drive. simply becsause Schaller punts the ball so well. Led by senior Dan Glennon and freshman Mike Bailey, the sec­ondary has forced incomple­tions at such a rate that their opponents have simply resort to trickery to move the ball. 
If one had to choose only one word, however, to describe the "Hed Swarm" defense of Zahm, it would have to be domination. They have simply overwhelmed the oiTenses of every team they have played to date. As a result, through four games, the Bats have allowed a meager 3 points. Three of their games have been shutouts, with the fourth proving to be a tough test for Zahm, but one the defense passed with flying col­ors. 
This difficult task came in the contest against the highly­touted Dawgs of Alumni. The Bats were able to contain the powerful rushing attack of 
Offensively, Stanford's John Mele hopes his punishing run­ning attack, teamed with timely passing, will be enough to over­come Dillon's tough defense. 
Dillon, however, is the No. 2 men's interhall team for a rea­son: they are a talented team that has executed when it was most important. Now Dillon will attempt to execute when one crucial mistake can mean the end of the season. 
The winner will be the team that handles the playoff pres­sure with the most composure. 
Alumni for a good portion of the game, allowing more yards than they are used to, but not enough for Alumni to get into the endzone. However, the defense had to pick up the slack late in the game , facing a 3-0 deficit, and come up with a way to win. 
They did just that. With Alumni on their own 25 yard line, the Dawgs decided to pass. Mistake. Zahm cornerback Dan Glennon picked off this pass and put the offense in position to score. Following the ensuing Zahm touchdown, Alumni had one last chance to win the game. As they have done all season,the "Hed Swarm" came up big, by ending this scoring opportunity. On 4th and 8, Alumni tried a sweep around the right side with Brian Perry, a former var­sity football player, but Zahm stuffed his attempt, thus pre­serving the victory. 
There is one simple point to all of this: whoever happens to be one of the unlucky teams that has Zahm as its opponent in the playoffs, corss your fin­gers and hope for the best. You are giong to need a lot more than luck to conquer this defense. The ghosts of Singletary, Dent, "Danimal", Duerson, and the others have arisen, and they have taken a new name. This nightmare is now referred to as the "Red Swarm." 

The place t:o go for ALL your NOTRE DAME sportswear & accessories! 
LaFortune Student Center (219 )631-8128 
IRISH 
EXPRESS 
HOURS 
--~ 
Friday  12-9 pm  
Saturday  8am -9 pm  
Sunday  9am -3 pm  

We Accept Visa, Mast:er Card and ...,.,.-" Discover Card ~Will<l• 
Top ranked Pangborn prepares for Crime 
KATHLEEN LOPEZ Chickens are looking to avenge Sporrs Writer their regular season loss to the Pasquerilla East Pyros. The 
On Sunday, women's inter-Chickens suffered a 12-0 loss hall football playoffs kicks off to the Pyros. The Pyros have a with key matchups between record of 4-1-1, and are No.1 ranked Pangborn and No. ranked fourth. 8 ranked Off-Pyros' captain, Campus and be-Sue O'Kain, stat-tween No. 4 ed this about ranked Pasquerilla their strategy, East and the No. 5 "Basically, we ranked Lewis have been prac-Chickens. tieing intensely all 
Pangborn fin-week, and we are ished the regular not taking our season undefeated. regular season Pangborn did not '-------------' win over Lewis play OfT-Campus in for granted. " this regular season because "The defense has been doing they are in different divisions. lots of conditioning and tack­
"We have been practicing the ling drills," stated Pangborn same all week," stated Phoxes outside linebacker, Lisa captain Tricia Sorensen. Deibler. "We are concentrating "Basically we are going to on trying to shut down the work as hard as we can to get option a little better. as far as we can." Basically, we want to improve 
"The key is to beat Pangborn on last year's performance, because they are the best. and and go out there prepared to if we beat them we'll be the win." best," stated Off-Campus' run-The winners of each of Sun­ning back Patti Vassallo. day's game will advance to the 
P.E. vs. Lewis semifinals. The No. 5 ranked Lewis 
WoiDen 
continued from page 24 
continued to limit opposition scoring all season. PW's own offensive touchdowns have come from their talented fresh­man wide receiver Mary Laflin and sophomore running back Alison Kriegel. 
But PW's undefeated record has not led them to overconfi­dence for the playoffs. 
"We're going to play just as hard as we did inthe regular season," commented captain Kelly McMahon. "At practice we are really trying to be seri­ous and concentrate. There is a lot of pressure playing as an undefeated ream." 
But Badin isn't looking at PW's record. 
"We are going into this as any other game" said Maloney. "PW isn't a special team," she said, noting that PW is in a dif­ferent division and has played different teams. Malondy added, "We're going out with the idea that we have to win to move on." 
Lyons vs. Walsh 
The defending champions of Lyons Hall will attempt to re­peat this year beginning with a battle against No. 3 Walsh. But if Walsh's regular season vic­tory over Lyons is an indication of anything, last year's cham­pions may be upset. 
"They are the team to beat because they won last year." said seior captain, Mary Wells. "But we know we can win after we beat them last game." 
Walsh will be looking to their offensive receiver Luz Hodriguz who has helped lead the team to a 5-1 season. Rodriguz will be facing the solid defense led by Maureen Hill and Mary O'Shaugnessy of Lyons Hall. But the entire team is ready to play. 
"It's going to be a team ef­fort," said captain and star quarterback Julie Byrd. "We're fueled up after the break." 
As a senior, Byrd is addtion­ally motivated by her final playoff round. 
''I'm fired up for my last foot­ball season. We're going to show some abilities we haven't yet." 
JUST ONE MORE REASON TO COME TO 
~TEAK 

On Notre Dame home footbal game weekends: 

OUTDOOR PAVILION 
Enjoy refreshments and watch other games on the BIG SCREEN TV while you wait for your table in our lighted pavilion. 
Pavillion Hours: 3:00p.m. to midnight on Fri. and Sat. 
Steak &Ale Restaurant 
52554 US 31 North* South Rend, IN 46637* 219/277-376 
" 
-~-----------~--~ -~-......----~~--~--~-----~­
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 26, 1995 
Irish easily dismantle Xavier
-
r 
' 
... 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Forward Monica Gerardo scored her 17th goal of the season in last night's 6-0 victory over Xavier. 
WANTED: 
REPORTERS, 
PHOTOGRAPHERS 
AND EDITORS. 
JOIN THE OBSERVER STAFF. 
Faces Artistic Design Center 
54777 Fir Road Mishawaka 
255-5556 Your Skin Tells A Story... ...Don't Let It Be A NIGHTMARE! 
• Free skin analysis  
• Guaranteed results  Penny Bowyer  
in just two weeks  Licensed Para-Medical Esthetician  

• 
Therapeutic treatment for acme & other skin problems 

• 
We use and recommend Gabriel Skin Care Treatment Products 


Visit Our Nail Salon! 
Complete Set ofNails ... ~ 
••• $3500 
-1/ 
Hair • Skin Care • Nails • Massages • Tanning Offer Good 'till 12/15/95 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sports Ediwr 
It was only a matter of time before the ball found its way into the Xavier net last night. 
From the outset, the Notre Dame women's soccer team swarmed around the Musketeer end, firing nine shots and cre­ating almost as many chances before the tenth shot proved to be the charm. 
"We started well and we were all over it from the beginning and that's a key for us," coach Chris Petrucelli said. 
With twenty minutes expired, junior Amy Van Laecke scored the only goal the Irish would need in their 6-0 win and third consecutive shutout. The goal came as forward Michelle Mc­Carthy, with her back to the goal, managed to find Van Laecke approaching from the right side. 
"We're back into a rhythm with the way we're playing right now," Petrucelli said. "If we can get into a passing rhythm, we can cause teams problems." 
The Irish's pinpoint passing against the Musketeers ac­counted for the 34-2 shot dif­ferential between the teams. 
"I thought we all gave such a great effort tonight," midfielder Julie Maund added. "We moved the ball around well tonight and it's important to stay on that track." 
One track that has been 
somewhat uncertain for the 
Irish this year revolves around 
the starting lineup. Van Laecke 
and senior Julie Vogel contin­
ued to start last night as Petru­
celli experiments with different 
combinations. 
"Both of them have done re­ally well for us and both of them have had an impact on every game they've been in," Petrucelli noted. "But I'm not yet ready to say were set with that lineup." 
However, the Irish head coach is not too worried about having a set lineup. 
"The thing that we have is 16 or 17 players who could all start for us and that's a lux­ury," Petrucelli added. "On any given day, someone steps up to play. Like tonight, Julie Maund scores a couple of goals and plays really well." 
That could be a possibility af­ter Maund dazzled fans and players alike, launching both her goals from well beyond the box into the corner of the net. 
"I was probably just as excit­ed as the next person to see those go in," Maund explained. 
Along with Maund's two goals, McCarthy also tallied two, while freshman Monica Gerardo scored her 17th goal of the year 28 seconds after Van Laecke's game winner. 
Drew University Graduate School 

• English Literawre  • Religion and Society  
• Modern History and Literaturl'  • Theological and Religious  
• BibliGll Studies and Early  Studies  
Christianity  • Liturgical Studies  

Master of Letters (M.Litt.) 
(A program ofliberal study for adult students) Medical Humanities, certificate 
For more information and an application, call2011408-3110 or fax 201/408-3242 Internet: rwesterf@drew.edu Graduate Admissions, Madison, New Jersey 07940 
~---~~--­

' 
Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• JOCK STRIP 
Catholic rivals eye God's support 
Maybe fifteen years of Catholic education has finally put me over the edge. Fifteen years of Catholic dogma com­bined with four years of Jesuit 
ideology must 
e··-. .,
have some perverse ef-... feet on the -~ ., 
brain. ::;._ : · Perhaps this may 
nxplain my ...i..·~ 
strange per­eeption of the Thomas Schlidt u p c 0 m i n g Assistant Sports b a t t I e Editor between Notre Dame and Boston College. For some reason when ever these two teams compete, I al­ways -see it as the battle be­tween the Congregation of the Holy Cross versus the Jesuits. It's like those high school foot­ball games of old. Set apart from the highly tal­ented (and may I say, less in­tellignnt) public schools, private high sehools would battle with­in their own conferences for the reeognition they deserved. 
Yes, there was always a pri­vate school state champion, but it was the public league that got all the press and glory. So the private schools had to be con­tent their limited bragging rights. 
While Notre Dame and Boston College do not face such segregation, do not assume that the issue is moot. When the Irish and Eagles take to the field this Saturday, they take with them the Catholic mantles of both their schools. 
Even Sports Illustrated dubs this game the "Holy War." 
For years people have min­gled Notre Dame football with religion. 
In the 1992 "Snow Bowl" bat­tle with Penn St., fans in atten­dance claim that the snow storm picked up when the Nit­tany Lions possessed the ball, and then died down when the Irish took over. Surely that was God's doing. 
Fans swear that the God caused the wind to stand still as Bob Thomas hit the winning field goal in the 24-23 win over Alabama in the 1973 Sugar 
the University of Notre Dame Department of Music 
~ presents 

DAVID CARTER, cello 
}v\ 
with NANCY PADDLEFORD, piano 
7:00p.m. 
Thursday, 26 October Annenberg Auditorium, the Snite Museum of Art 
Free and to the 
Bowl. The Irish claimed the National Championship with that victory. 
When the Irish face a foe in the house that Rockne built, don't they cheer sunlight breaking through the clouds as God's approval. 
In 1991 when Rick Mirer bounced a pass off Michigan State defender Todd Muray's chest into the waiting hands of Adrian Jarrell, wasn't a thun­derous Amen heard around the country when the Irish won 20­19. 
This was just a week after Lake Dawson grabbed a pass that ricocheted off fellow domer Raghib Ismail on a third and fifteen from Rick Mirer. The Irish were down by 10 to Michigan at the time, and ended up winning 28-24. Were not the Irish faithful at home praising the Lord? I know I was. 
Are we not the school that la­beled our quarterback the "Messiah" before he took a snap? 
We were God's team. 
But Boston College changed that. That knuckling field goal that David Gordon kicked in 1993 wasn't supposed to hap­pen. 
Notre Dame was God's team. We honor his mother, not a city. Only we deserved the mir­acles. 
Then comes the scariest thought of all. Maybe we aren't God's team anymore. Maybe Boston College replaced us. 
That is what this game means. In an infantile sense, it gives us the same bragging rights claimed in high school. 
Boston College has claimed those rights the past two years, but that's going to change. As the football bible states: on the third game, Notre Dame shall rise again, and God shall claim them as his. 
iH~III 
OCTOBER 30th 
8:00 GHOSTBUSTERS 
10:00 LOST BOYS 
12:00 THE EXORCIST 
Popcom, Soda, Cookies, Goodie Bags ABSOLUTELY FREE 
La Fortune Ballroom 
Rossun1 bounces back after slow start 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
SportS Writer 
When things are going bad, its only natural to look for a scapegoat. 
This is certainly true when Notre Dame football team struggles. Everyone from stu­dents and media to the players themselves look for someone to take the fall for a loss, a bad series or a big play. 
Too often this season, sopho­more cornerback Allen Rossum has taken the fall for the Irish. Rossum was one of many defenders burned against Northwestern, Purdue and Texas, but for many Notre Dame followers, losing Ohio State wide receiver Terry Glenn on an 82-yard touch­down reception stands out. 
"Its been a very tough year in a lot of respects," Rossum says. "From a personal stand­point, I've put a lot of blame on myself. Luckily. the team and coaches have not, and they've kept their confidence in me." 
"Allen's had a rough year, but people forget that he's still really young," says senior safety Brian Magee. "But he's always kept a real positive attitude and we've always had confidence in his abilities." 
Rossum needed their confi­dence heading into the season. A quarterback in high school, Rossum played sparingly at the corner during his freshman campaign. 
But he made a name for him­self in the winter by earning All-American honors in the indoor 55 meter sprint (speed that the Irish may exploit Saturday by using Rossum as a special teams returner). Through his work in the spring drill, he found himself atop the depth chart this fall. 
"It's been a challenge adjusting this year," Rossum admits. "I didn't play a lot last season and I concentrated on offense in high school, so it was a big change. 
"The hardest thing to realize is that in this position anything can happen," Rossum contin­ues. "In college the receivers are all great athletes. Sometimes you're going to get him and sometimes he'll beat you. You just have to bounce back." 
Rossum has had to do his share of bouncing back this season. His penchant for falling on coverage earned him the ire of Notre Dame fans. 
"I know the falling down has been a problem, and I really don't want to make excuses about why I kept slipping," Rossum says. "We've changed to' shoes with longer spikes, and that's been a big plus be­cause it gives all of us backs more leverage." 
Rossum admits that all the fuss about his "problem" may have exacerbated it. Defensive coordinator Bob Davie said after the Ohio State game that some of the falling may have been mental, and Russum agrees. 
"I think I was pushing too hard and trying to do too much earlier in the season," Rossum says. "I was concen­trating so hard on staying up and not giving up the big play that I would break too hard, and maybe my feet weren't under me." 
But despite all the pressure, Rossum has maintained a positive attitude. That attitude and confidence has led to a greatly improved performance in recent weeks. 
"He's taken a lot of heat," Magee says of Rossum. "But he's always stayed up and has made some big plays himself." 
He has returned two interceptions for touchdowns, including one late in the Washington game to preserve an Irish win. He had six tack­les against USC, and helped contain All-American Keyshawn Johnson en route to a 38-10 win. 
"USC was a big win, but we have to focus on BC and not take them for granted," Rossum says. "We have to look at each team as a stum­bling block in our way, and not look past anyone." 
The same applies to Hossum personally. 
"I know that when you're playing its not always going to go your way," Hossum says. "You've just got to bounce back and keep at it." 
1995-96 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
FRIDAY, NOV. 3, 8 P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM $5 SMC/ND COMMUNITIES $4 STUDENTS 
TICkets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located 

r-----~----~-~ 
t 
f 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
Midfielder Chris Mathis will attempt to lead the Irish to a critical victory tonight against Western Michigan. 
Irish seek crucial win tonight 
By DYLAN BARMMER Spons Writer 
It's crunch time for the Notre Dame men's soccer .team, as the Irish footballers head into the last four games of the regu­lar season, and possibly the en­tire season. 
The Irish's quest for postsea­son play essentially begins tonight, as the team looks to end a three game losing streak when they play host to Western Michigan. 
"At this point, every remain­ing game is important," said team captain Tony Capasso. 
He may be right. 
While the outcome of this game will not directly affect the­Irish's chances to make the Big East tournament, it may be crucial in establishing momen­tum heading into a must-win game at Connecticut on October 29. 
"The Big Green" (PG) 
2:00. 4:30, 7:00, 9:10 
(R) 
"Empire Records" (PG-13) 
2:40, 5:00, 7:40, 9:45 
"Something To Talk About" (R) 
1"15, 2:20,4:50,7:20,9:35 
"Devil In A Blue Dress" (PG) 1:12. 2·.10. 4:40.7:10. s·oo 
i..U'JIVERSITY PARK VIEST 
1ON l.INIVERSIJV PARK DRIVE 2n·7336l 
"Last olthe Dog men" (PG) 
2:00. 4:25. 6:50. 9:20 
"Never Talk To Strangers" (R) 
2:30. 4:45. 7:15. 9:30 
"To Wong Foo" (PG-13) 
2:00,4:20,6:45.9:10 
Thursday Night Study Break All Shows $4.00 All Day With Valid Student/.0. 
"We're going to be ready to go out there and play a great game, and hopefully use this as a stepping stone heading into the Connecticut game," com­mented forward Ben Bocklage. "We have nothing to lose right now." 
So it is that the 7-8 Irish ap­proach this game against the 6­9-1 Broncos. who have lost six of their last seven games. While the Irish were outscored 12-2 in their four matches over the fall break, this number doesn't look as painful next to the 20-4 margin that the Bron­cos sit on the losing side of over their past seven matches. 
The Irish will have to contend with a towering tandem up front however, as 6'3" fresh­man Steve Bibi and 6'0" sopho­more David Fernandez lead the weak Bronco offense with nine and eight points, respectively. 
Western Michigan has man­aged just 19 goals in their 16 games, but goaltender Kevin Klein (1.83 GAA) and the Bronco defense have been solid, yielding just under two goals a game. 
"I think everybody on this team is excited," said Capasso of this young Irish squad. "We want to get into the tournament and surprise a lot of people." 
The surprise party could be­gin tonight. 
Thursday, October 26, 1995 
Ne~aaci : Baslie1l1air~mciaiS 
for. ,k. Interha.ll ·.and Grad/Fac/Staff Games. Pays $8.50. a game~ If you are cur­rently a Co-Ree offiCial and would like to do other basket; ball leagues, please call 1­6100 and ask for Mark. Interested athletes RecSports is offering IH, Club, and· Giad/Fac/Staff Basketball, lH and Ice Hockey . and campu~:~ co-Ree Broomball. ])eadlin{l·fo:rtbe en.td 
Novemb~r ·l~-" · · ···· 100 for timl}s. 
presents: 
THURSDAY 
(OLLEGE NIGHT 
Featuring: 
GEORGE AND THE FREEKS 
• 
With Lady Melo-"D", Spinning your favorite Tootsie Roll, Bootie Call & Perculator, & Butterfly Hip-Hop music. 

• 
Both Dance Floors Open Until Close. 

• 
Absolutely no one under 21 will be admitted after 11:00 

p.m. and absolutely no one under 21 will be admitted without a college ID. Period. No exceptions. 

•Friday 
Oct. 27TH is Disco Night. Wear your Dancing & Party shoes 


$3.00 Admission With Student ID $5.00 Admission Without Student ID 
*Every one under 21 must state they are prior to entry. 
Save $1.00 With This Ad Before 11:30 pm 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME Summer Engineering Program 
Foreign Study in London, England 
INFORMATION MEETING: Thursday, October 26, 1995 Room 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 7:00p.m. 
ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WE 
It tool1 a little more to mal1e notre dame swimming & diving the Varsity Shop. 
Pow' RALPH LAUREN 
FRIDAY-NOTRE DAME RELAYS 
4:00p.m. SATURDAY-vs. BOSTON COLLEGE 
~ 
nautica.
_..._ 
VARSITY SHOP 
-
.•­
Thursday, October 26, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON ... 
Sll~ ! 'S~~~ I W~~~>..-· .. 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1995 
i.>lll.ol"ll• W•-rn T\lt,,-LAo"' ... Ar<o 
(For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own 
date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99
Q~E01. Tflt:: fl.£ !?.' AppAfl.fi.EN'fl.."\ 
cents a minute.) 
:5\\E.S t\\II.Ov-lt .... C.., 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
\-r ~lq\-\'f \',P.L)( 
A..-T\-\Em--· 
Working closely with authority fig­ures wi II produce a big payoff. Invest extra funds shrewdly and you could reap a windfall by the middle of I 996. New work methods boost your earnings. A conservative approach to spending will keep your financial boat on an even keel. A real estate purchase is favored next summer. Newlyweds may choose to make a down payment on a home instead of going on an expensive
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
honeymoon. CELEBRITIES BORN ON
T\-\P..\'5 Ci\lL~D P... 
THIS DAY: first lady Hillary Rod­
'TEf>...'SER, B'i T\-1£. 
ham Clinton, actor Bob Iloskins,
Wf>...'{. 
game show host Pat Sajak, gospel singer Mahalia Jackson. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Keep your standards high. An indis­creet romantic involvement could strain a longtime alliance and deplete your bank account. Although a parent-child relationship may never be perfect, it can be greatly improved. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A terrific day for romance, creative 
0
0 
endeavors and long-range planning. 
0 
The heart and mind combine to pro­
0 J 
duce wonderful ideas. Go slow on accepting suggestions that may not work.
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The power of suggestion remains strong.
S~------------------~u~~==============:--, 
Use your keen intellect to win sup­
l BELIEVE IT'5 A CLEVE!\ ~
Wt>-LLY AND I HAVE A 
M.A.'< 1 POINT OUT THAT 
port for a clever idea. Casual BE.T ABOUT WHY YOU 
6 PLOY 'TO CREATE. HE.ALTHY 
romances are not for you. Act in a responsible fashion. 
CAULIFLOWER IS THE. 
~ « INTERNAL COf"\l't.IHION.
ASSIGNED ME TO THE. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 5Afii.E. 'TA:)I<. A':J 'THREE. 
" ~ WALLY THINK5 YOU'RE 
Adopting a friendly altitude is the first step towards arriving at an
g « JUST DUMBE!\ 'TH~N THE
OTI-IE.R PEOPLE. 
understanding. Be ready to make a AVERAGE CAULIHOWE.R. 
few temporary sacrifices. Certain linancial questions need to be settled. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): All con­versations and transactions of a con­tidential nature should be conducted 

~----~~~--~~~~~~~-----­

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 All ears 59 Jellystone bear 35 "Over There" 60 Mahayana
1 Marshal Tito songwriter teacher5 "As You Like It" 36 Ganymede, e.g. 61 Awaitingservant 37 Freudian topic tenants
9 Seek water, in a 38 Dallas eager, 62 Scheme
way 14 Burt's ex 
briefly &3"What-­39 Listener's mind reader?"
15 "You've Made Very 64Mild
gesture 
Happy" (1969 40 Greene's 65 Start of a 
hit) "Travels With chooser's 
My-"
16 Spa on Lake rhyme Geneva 
42 Trained with 
66 Chessboard 17 Quattuor line
LeMond doubled 44 Quizzes 
18 Drill sgts., e.g. 45 Dermatologist's 19lrish pronouncement? DOWN 20 Cardiologist's 48 Kernel's locale 
1 Alliances drastic remedy? 49 Best Picture of 
2 Novelist Mazo 23 Early photos 1982 
dela-­24G.P.'sorg. 53 Arthroscopic 
3 Barroom sign25 Acupuncturist's surgeries? 
4 Champion of 
fee? 57 Stone marker 
Israel 5 Forgetful 6 Erte's art
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Beginning a Revel aIa rock fans 9Aide--­-=+=+:+::-l 10 Baseball pitcher's style ..;..+~::::+~~~ 11 Droop 
"'""""-+:-+-:,-i 12 Used a sedan ~7+.:::-t:='-i 13 U.S.N. officer -'-+-:-+:+:,-i 21 Heater 
~~~~··· 26 Performer at
~ Caroline's 
~-=+-=+~:-+::+.=:-l 27 M i I itary hue -=+=+::+.:-! 28 Overhangs ~7+.:=-+.:::-1 29 Solar wind 
particles behind closed doors. A heartfelt decision will work out fine. Body language proves very revealing. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Others may try to take credit for your work. Stick up for your rights. Communication mix-ups arc possi.· hie. Check incoming ;md outgoing messages very carefully. Leave nothing to chance in finance or romance. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Tack­le important work early in the day. Your well-known tact helps you escape a tricky situation. Ignore the get-rich-quick tips of good-inten­tioned friends. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Make the most of a change in rou­tine or personnel. Show higher-ups how adaptable you are. End a husi · ness arrangement that is going nowhere fast. Reach a compromise with your mate or panner. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Give others ample time to con­sider your proposals. Sparks could lly if someone invades your privacy. Seek new surroundings if necessary. A legal matter could make you feel uneasv. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Too much chatter will interfere with your effons to work. Rely on an answering machine or service to screen calls. A compromise could be your ticket to future financial gains. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): An investment of time and money hegins to pay off. Keep any promis­es made to children. Get back into your fitness routine. A sensible change of diet will help you feel and look better. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Delays or mix-ups are possible this morning. Have a back-up plan. Let others grab the spotlight while you sit back and wait for it to swing in your direction. 
• OF INTEREST 
Career and Placement Services will be hosting the Nuts and Bolts Graduate School Workshop today from 3:30-5 p.m. In the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. Guest speakers are Dr. Peter Diffiey, assistant dean of the Graduate School, and Dr. Barbara Turpin, director of Graduate Admissions. Directed at seniors, topics to be discussed at the workshop include identifying an appropriate course of study, writing an e!Tectlve letter of intent, securing letters of recommendation. and locating funding sources. Nanovlc Center for European Studies presents William Pfaff, author and internationally syndicated commentator, who will be lecturing on Bosnia. He will be speaking today at 4:15 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo Hnll. Studying Abroad: An informational meeting about studying in Athens will be held today at 4:30 p.m. in 202 DeBartolo. Father Bob Lombardo, class of '79, is recruiting vol­unteers to help serve at the St. Anthony Residence for formerly homeless men, located in New York City. He will on campus from 2-5 p.m. and 7:30-9 p.m. today, as well as Friday from 9:30 a.m.-12 p.m. and 2:30-5 p.m., in the Center for Social Concerns. For more information, stop by the CSC or call Patty at the Center (631-5142) to schedule an appointment. Powc:n Lunches are sponsored by Cnmpus Ministry every Friday from 12:15-1:05 in the Faculty Dining Room of South Dining Hall. Bring your tray upstnirs, or get a grab 'n' go, and join In. 

~:..:..t-::+.:-+.::'1 22 Merit 

employee  47 Bit of granola  keyboard  
31 Termini  50 Acting major  55 Mouselike  •MENU  
32 Rise up 33 Juanita's water 34 Longtime Met  51 Encircle 52 Singer-songwriter Chris  rodent 56 Painter Schiele 57 Wrigley Field  Notre Dame North Four-Cheese Pizza  
soprano 41 Pythagorean nugget  53 Eikenberry of "L.A. Law"  player 58 Literary olio  Grilled Tuna with Lemon Sugar Snap Peas  
42 Swiss capital 43 Sense of self-respect 44 Ring-shaped  Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute).  Saint Mary's Baked Ham Vegetable Stir Fry Corn on the Cob  

South Turkey Turnovers Rotini wNegetables Whipped Potatoes 
' 
.. 


... 
.._  SPORTS  
page 24  Thursday, October 26, 1995  

• INTERHAU fOOTBALL 

The second season 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 
begins
Quarterback Julie Byrd and Lyons will try to defend their lnterhall football title but will first have to get by No. 3 Walsh on Sunday. 

PW attempts to overcome plethora of Alumni faces Planner in quarterfinals injuries, encounters improving Badin By TODD FITZPATRICK momentum into the post-season. 
Spores Writer "We're going with the game plan we've By ANNE NAPIERKOWSKI Cartier Field. been using all year," said Johnson. Sports Writer hajuries have plagued Badin's reg­The playoffs begin. Eight men's teams He credits Alumni's regular season 
ular season, shifting key players and remain. For two teams, Notre Dame wins to steady play on both offense and 
Fall break may have given students positions for the playoffs. Badin's Stadium awaits. defense. a release from classes, but it didn't greatest Joss came with the injury of One of the quarterfinal games matches "Consistency of play has led to our suc­relax the competative spirit as Jill Satanek, their star wide receiver. No. 3 Alumni against No. 6 Flanner, and cess," according to Johnson. women's Interhall football jumps "We're looking for Beth Loftus and consistency is the key to victory for both Flanner hopes they can regain the con­back into action with playoffs this Margaret Scolis to fill in for Jill" said teams. sistent offensive attack they possessed weekend. captain Fran Maloney. Alumni plans to make few adustments when the Cocks were early season fa­
The women of Badin Hall contin­Loftus and Scolis will have to pena­going into Sunday's game. They are vorites to reach the championship game. ued individual conditioning over the trate PW's stellar defense which has pleased with their level of play thus far, They ended the season with a barrage of vacation in preparation for undefeat­so captain Avery Johnson stresses the ed Pasquerella West this Sunday at importance of continuing his team's 
see WOMEN I page 19 see MEN/ page 19 
Women•s Pairings 
Men•s Pairings 
1 Pangborn 1 :00 PM 1 Zahm 1 :00 PM e Off Campus 




8 Carroll Cartier 
Stepan North 
4 PE 2;00 PM 3 Alumni 2:00 PM 
5 Lewis 6 Flanner 
3Walsh 3:00PM 4 Keenan 1 :00 PM 6 Lyons 5 Fisher Cartier Stepan South 2PW 4:00PM 2 Dillon 2:00PM 
7 Badin 7 Stanford 

The Red Menace 
knew they could not be beaten, and theyZahms 'Red knew that, for the most part, the reason was their defense. The keys that Jed to that Bear defense
Swarm ' defense of '85 seem to be showing themselves this year in another team, the Zahm Rabid Bats. Comparing the No. 1 team in Notre
is the scourge of 
Dame's lnterhall season to one of the greatest teams in NFL history may seeminterhall football a stretch, but a closer llok reveals striking similarities.
By TIM MCCONN 
. Many things come to mind when think­
Sporrs Writer 
ing of this '95 version of the Monsters of the Midway. They have speed. Not justThink back to 1985. The Chicago Bears 
fast, but blazing. Not only do they get to
were the rage of the sports world. In fact, 
the ball, but they hit hard and bring the
they had such a high degree of confidence 
man down. No poor arm tackling here.
in themselves and their abilities on the 
Their ability to create turnovers is uncan­
field that they tried their abilities in the 
ny. Every game seems to include at least
recording studio, completing their rendi­tion of the Super Bowl Shuffle. They 
see ZAHM/ page 19 
Football Women's Soccer 
• Rossum makes significant strides. 
vs. Boston College vs. Boston College October 27, 7:30 
aJ 
'C 
see page 21 SMC Sports 
October 28, 3:30 EST 
SPORTS 
Volleyball 
Soccer at DePauw University ..... •Braves extend lead to 3-1. 
at Rutgers October 28, 2:00 p.m. 
October 28, 1:00
., at a 
at Seton Hall October 29, 2:00 p.m. 
Volleyball at Lake Forest College see page 17 October 28, 10:00 
.e riJ 
•O'Neal out for six to eight weeks. 
Men's Soccer 
vs. Western Michigan October 26, 7:30 see page 16
GLANCE 
----------------~­

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------~--------------­

IRISH ON THE OffENSIVE. • II 
Consistent line facilitates balanced attack 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
At last Saturday's contest against USC, a statement by the public address announcer sent a tremor of delight through the crowd. "Army 49, Boston Col­lege 7" was the simple yet potent message. 
That would be the same Army team that Notre Dame had dis­patched a week earlier. And the same Eagle squad that would be traveling to South Bend the following week. Elementary logic points to an easy Irish victory. 
The unfortunate reality for Irish fans, however. is that logic must be suspended in the world of college football. And head coach Lou Holtz is very aware that Boston College is a danger­ous opponent despite their 2-5 record. 
"When you look at them on film, you say how in the world have they lost five football games," said Holtz. 
Certainly the Eagle defensive front cannot be responsible for what has been a mediocre sea­son. Nick Gianacakos, Tim Morabito, and Chris Sullivan are an imposing wall along the defensive line, combining for five sacks and 100 tackles. 
"I know the thing I am con­cerned about is not only are they big and talented up front, they also run a lot of stunts and do a lot of different things that present some problems to you," Holtz explained. 
The Eagle defense will have to contend with an Irish attack that has become increasingly potent as the season has pro­gressed, primarily due to the steady improvement of the offensive line. 
Led by Ryan Leahy and Dusty Ziegler, and augmented by freshman Mike Rosenthal. who turned in a stellar effort against USC, the men in the trenches have executed both the passing attack and the running game to perfection. 
Besieged early in his career by a seemingly constant stream of pass-rushers, quarterback Ron Powlus has had time to check the stands for celebrities, formulate a topic for his next research paper, and still find receivers this season. 
The confidence in the line has also been manifested in more imaginative play calling. Against the Trojans, Notre Dame utilized a variety of screens, counters, and sweeps to perfection, all of which require the big men to get downfield and complete their blocks. 
Also look for Derrick Mayes, more decoy than demon recent­ly, to have a big game. 
Friday, October 27, 1995 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen Quarterback Ron Powlus and fullback Marc Edwards have seen a lot of daylight resulting from an improving offensive line. 

By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
Sixty-six yards in 1:10. 
It is a phrase that has haunted the Irish defense for two years. It fmds them daydreaming in class, while watching television, or asleep at night. There is very little escape, but there may eventually be vindication. 
Those two numbers, simple though they are, summa­rize the fall of a national championship. With a one point lead and 1:10 on the clock, the 1993 Irish couldn't stop the Eagles from dashing their dreams. The bitter taste lingers to this day. 
To be sure, very few of today's defenders had any part in the debacle. Only some of them were actually in Notre Dame Stadium to watch the dark drama unfold. 
But for two years, Boston College, a former weak sis­ter of the football elite, has run roughshod over Notre 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Dame's vaunted tradition, and more tangibly, its
Safety Brian Magee and the Irish defense hope to eradicate 
Past woes a present focus for Irish 
the memory of recent woes against BC. defense. 
EAGLES ON THE OFFENSIVE. • • 
' '
atp 
Notre Dame Running Game . 
VS. By Mike Norbut 
Boston College D-Line 
R
andy Kinder gained 143 yards on the ground against Boston College last year. 
Yet, the Eag~.::s pounded the Irish 30-11. 
It didn't help that Ron Powlus was 5-for-21 that game either. However, with the he has been performing this season, there's not much of a chance that will happen again. 
Boston College Powlus will get
h · 2O 0 d b l 
IS yar s, proba Y half of 
that to Derrick Mayes. But if the 
Two years ago the Eagles threw up a cool 41 points. Last year they settled for 33. The Irish defenders have something to prove on Saturday, if only to exorcise the demons of the past. 
Certainly the Eagles do not line up the weapons they've had in the past. A duo of ineffective quarter­backs has plagued Boston College, as Mark Hartsell and Matt Hasselbeck have split time throwing the ball to the wrong team. 
However, the real focus on Saturday will be on Notre Dame's defense. The Irish linebackers gave a clinic in how to make the big play against USC. Once maligned, the secondary is slowly evolving into a strength under the leadership of Shawn Wooden. 
"You need one corner that really plays with confi­dence, and Shawn Wooden has played every week," said Irish head coach Lou Holtz. "He has lined up with the best and just competed tremendously." 
The present success. though, will not be the main focus. Rather. redeeming the past will be paramount to the Irish. 
Eagles can stop the Irish on the ground, they can dominate their offense. 
Irish coach Lou Holtz said after beating USC that he felt no one could stop Notre Dame on the ground if the line executed. 
They have the past few weeks. 
Boston College no longer can put its defensive hopes on the shoul­ders of Mike Mamula. Instead, nose guard Tim Morabito and 

tackle Chris Sullivan will have to Photo courtesy of Boston College Sports Information 
Eagles nose guard Tim Morabito.
get a push up the middle. 
~-"------' 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Irish offensive guard Dusty Ziegler. 


Friday,October 27, 1995 

• • •KENYATTA WATSON 

·~ ............. --..... -. 
Photo courtesy of Boston College Sports Information 
N
eakness of he Notre Dame efense in 1995 as been the propensity to give up the Big Play. Bobby !Joying's 82-yard touch­down pass to Terry Glenn effectively killed the Irish's hopes against . Ohio State last month. Yet last week against USC, Notre Dame avoided such confi­dence-shatter­ing plays en route to victo­ry. 
In order to maintain their dilllll1 
winning ways, Watson throwing the ball 
the Irish will have to stymie the Big 
Play potential of Boston College, namely that of junior Kenyatta Watson. 
As the starting wide receiver, Watson has hauled in 1:~ passes for 14H yards and an 11.4 yards-per-catch aver­age. But it's been on special teams where Watson has made his presmtC!l felt. 
Watson returned a punt 84 yards for a toudtdown against West Virginia. The return narned him the week's "AT&T Long Distance Award" for the longest kick in major college football, and it was the fourth-longest punt return in Boston College history. 
As the main return 
Saturday is still in question, as either Matt Hasselbeck or Mark Hartsell could get the start for the Eagles. 
Hartsell started the first six games, but was benched against Army in favor of Hasselbeck. The sophomore co~p­pleted 12 of 27 passes for 116 yards, but was intercepted four times. Hasselbeck is 27 for 60 for 280 yards on the year. Be has thrown just two touehdowns but has been intercepted seven times. 
Hartsell, a junior who bloomed as a starter last season, but has struggled this year. 
On the season, Hartsell has connected on 87 of 16~ passes for 830 yards and five 12 yards per punt re­turn and 20.9 per kick­off, with a long of 44­yards. 
Along with Watson, Boston College features a quartet of wide receivers who see significant playing time. Sophomores Todd Pollack and Steve Everson lead the team 
in receiving, with Everson catching 16 passes for 260 yards. Pollack leads the team with three touch­down grabs. 
The question of who will be 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA page 3 
!!~ti!~~!!~?,~? I 
at who holds the advantage 

Qua~erbacks D 
Whether the Eagles send Mark Hartsell or Matt 
Hasselback on the field, they shouldn't compare 
with Ron Powlus, who played wellla-;t week. 
.._,........___....,._,Running BacksD 
Most schools would be crushed losing a.back like Randy Kinder. For Notre Dame, ir just provides a chance for someone else, i.e. Autry Denson. 
Receivers " 
The Eagles haveoplenty of what the Irish 
lack,speed. Notre Dame has what BC lacks, 
Derrick Mayes. Depth gives edge to the Eagles. 
~.___.--.J Offensive Line D 
Both clubs traditionally boast great lines; this sea­
son is no different. The fact that the Irish have 
been a machine lately bodes poorly for BC.
D Defensive Line ~~~r ~ 
. The Eagle~ manhandled che Irish OL last year and 
return much of that crew. NO's front three is 
underrated and will be overshadowed again. 

Linebackers D 
The Irish 'backers are gaining national notice for 
their '88-like exploits. Stephen Boyd's graduation 
has left a huge hole in ° the middle for BC. 

Secondary ~ 
Improving yet still a worry, the Irish secondary 
will have its hands full with quick Eagles. BCs 
crew is a mixture of experien~e and raw talent. · 
D mLJ
.·Special Teams 00 
Holtz's headaches continue with the kicking game. Solid kickoff returns and decent punting prevents the special teams from being a disaster area. 

Coaching 
.o 
There are rumblings in Beantown about 
Hennings' future. The only question about Lou Holtz is where he will watch the game from. 

Overall 
D 
• • • TERRENCE WIGGINS 
Photo courtesy of Boston College Sports Information 
I
f you haven't noticed already (and if you haven't, you've been living under a rock during your college career), Boston College players and fans get especially fired up for the Notre Dame football game. 
The epitome of this passion is Eagles' free saftey Terence 
Wiggins. 
the starting free Wiggins has safety job, and I · has responded
been a consis­tent contribu­···. . ..:;:.-,
~ "'fj,., ;) with a career-tor in the 
. ...-. best season. He defensive backfield, but 
:~•._....~:..:·~:r ~~~: 
........ _ son's 34. total seems to really WigginS tack~eS Wit~ 47 
the senior 
shine against the Irish . 
Consider this: In 1993, he lead the Eagles with a nine tack­le effort in their 41-39 defeat of the Irish. His six solo stops were among the best on the pumped-up Boston College squad that robbed Notre Dame of their national champi­onship hopes. 
There was nothing but pride riding on last seasons' Irish-Eagles match, but again Wiggins led the squad with a tremendous effort. He picked off two Ron Powlus passes to demoralize the Notre Dame offense and spark another Boston College win. 
Now the senior 
long suspension and looks to help his squad recover after a 49-7 trouncing by Army. 
Wiggins is seventh on the Eagles with 34 total tackles, and his 28 solo stops are sixth. He's recovered two fumbles. 
After playing behind Wiggins for two sea­sons, senior Rob 
Clifford earned 
headmg mto Saturday. 
In addition, Clifford leads the team with three interceptions, coming in consecutive games against Michigan State, Pitt and West Virginia. 
Clifford led the Eagles against Army last week with 14 tackles, nine of them solo. 
But Clifford's efforts were one of the few bright spots for Boston College against Army. The Eagles were baffied by the Cadets' Wishbone offense, allowing 462 rushing yards. 
However, tho Eagles' defense has been rav­aged by injuries in the past few weeks. Along with a suspension or 

specialist for the Eagles, touchdowns. Talent outweighs let down possibility for Irish. returns to the Eagle two. Watson has averaged --Megan McGrath backfield after a week---Megan McGrath 
-Tim Sherman 
.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
EAGLES 
SCORE BY QUARTERS  1  2  3  4  Tot  PASSING  Camp  All  Pet  Yds  TO  tnt  Lg  PUNTING  No  Avg  Bk  Lg  
Boston College  14  34  28  27  103  Hartsell  87  168  51.8  830  5  9  53  Malecki  43  39.4  0  62  
Opponents  34  68  47  31  180  Hasselback  27  60  45.0  280 2  7  27  
KICKOFF RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
TEAMSTATS  BC  Opp  RECEIVING  Rae  Yds  Avg  TO  Lg  Watson  14  29.3  0  44  
First downs  118  147  Pollack  17  110  6.5  3  27  Cloud  6  16.3  0  26  
Total yards  1936  2600  Everson  16  260  16.3  0  53  King  3  13.7  0  29  
Total yards per game  276.6  371.4  Harding  16  137  19.6  2  15  
Total offensive plays  468  508  King  15  163  10.9  0  21  PUNT RETURNS  No  Avg  TO  Lg  
Avg. yards per play  4.14  5.12  Watson  14  154  11.0  1  29  Porter  1  22.0  0  22  
Rushing yards  789  1295  Grice  9  130  14.4  0  29  Watson  13  12.2  1  84  
Rushing yards per game  112.7  185.0  Smith  9  23  2.6  0  5  
Rushing plays  236  329  Gibbons  5  90  18.0  0  38  INTERCEPTIONS  No  
Passing yards  1147  1305  Hemmert  5  27  5.4  2  11  Clifford  3  
Passing yards per game  163.9  186.4  Cloud  4  5  1.3  0  9  Half, Porter  
Passes completed  116  95  Speight, Tolefree  
Passes attempted  230  179  ALL-PURPOSE  Rush  Rae  Ret  Tot  Avg  
Passes intercepted  16  7  Watson  36  154  452  644  92.0  DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
Fumbles I Fumbles lost  10/6  8/5  Cloud  277  5  98  360  54.3  Half  54  14  68  0  0  2  1  
Penalties-Penalty yards  45-355  46-403  Sm~h  239  23  0  262  52.4  Porter  33  18  51  0  0  5  0  
Third down conversions  44-109  37-102  Walker  326  27  0  353  50.4  Clifford  35  12  47  0  1  3  0  
Percentage  40.4  36.3  Everson  2  260  0  262  43.7  Speight  36  '8  44  0  0  2  0  
Fourth down conversions  3-10  7-11  Sullivan  32  7  39  0  0  0  1  
SCORING  TO  2XP  1XP  FG  Sal  Pts  Edmonds  23  14  37  0  0  0  0  
RUSHING  Yds/Gm  No  Yda  Avg  TO  Lg  Pollack  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  Wiggins  28  6  34  1  1  2  0  
Smkh  47.8  77  239  3.1  0  13  Watson  3  0  0-0  0  0  18  Coline!  22  10  32  1  1  1  0  
Walker  46.6  63  326  5.2  2  24  McGuire  0  0  8-9  3  0  17  Morab~o  26  5  31  0  0  0  0  
Cloud  39.6  52  277  5.3  1  28  Hemmert  2  1  0-0  0  0  14  Gianacakos  25  5  30  1  0  0  
5.4  1  38  36.0  1  38  Harding  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Storz  16  11  27  1  
3.8  5  19  3.8  0  10  Walker  2  0  0-0  0  0  12  Blount  11  15  26  0  
0.6  1  4  4.0  0  4  Cloud  1  0  0-0  0  0  6  Gustin  18  5  23  1  
0.3  1  2  2.0  0  2  Hassel back  1  0  o-o  0  0  6  Kaye  10  9  19  0  

No.Name Pos. HL WL 1 Steve Everson WR 5-10 162 
DAN HENNING OHIO STATE l, 38-6 
2 Tony Ransome CB 5-9 177 
3 M~chell Carr RB 5-9 189 JR at Virginia Tech W, 20-14 
4 Kenyatta Watson WR 5-10 176 JR 
5 Michael Bullock 5-11 Sept. 16 MICHIGAN l, 23-13
WR 160 FR 
·Second season at Boston College 
6 Jermaine Walker WR 5-10 166 so 
Sept. 30 atMic igan Stale l, 25-21 
7 Matt Hasselbeck QB 6-0 183 so 
Career Record: 9-9-1 
7 David Hasselhoff BW s-o 195 SR Oct. 7 Pl -SBUR~ij; YJ, 17-0
1
8 Gavin Hamels QB 6-0 183 so 
Against Notre Dame: 1-0 
9 Chris Hackett K 5-9 173 so Oct. 14 WES NIAl, 31-19 
1 0 Marl< Hartsell QB 6-5 222 JR 
Highlights: A previous head coach of Oct. 2}o.--~&Jr:ARMY L, 49-7
11 Anthony DiCosmo WR 6-3 190 FR 
12 Scott Mutryn QB 6-3 204 so the Atlanta Falcons and the San Diego Oct. 28 at Notre Dame 
13 Willie Wright LB 6-3 213 so 14 EricOison 6-2
QB 185 FR Chargers, Henning also won his first Nov. 4 at Temple
15 Billy Gustin s 6-2 192 so 16 Rob Tardio TE 6-5 221 so bowl game, the Aloha Bowl, last year. Nov. 11 MIAMI 
17 Quinton Lee RB 6-0 175 FR 
18 Dennis Harding WR 6-2 175 so Nov. 18 at Syracuse 
19 Steve Lomansey DB 6-0 185 FR 
Nov. 24 at Rutgers
20 Greg Grica WR 5-9 186 SR 21 Mike Cloud RB 6-0 203 so 23 John Matich K 6-3 195 FR 24 Rupert English LB 6-1 243 JR 24 Modem English RK 6-0 220 SR 25 Rob Clifford s 6-1 185 SR 26 Shalom Tole free CB 5-10 175 so 27 Tim Davis RB 5-9 180 FR 
LAST TIME RECORDS
28 Jamall Anderson RB 5-9 185 FR 29 Brandon King WR 6-1 180 FR 30 Pat Phetts RB 5-11 180 FR 32 Malcolm Williams RB 6-2 249 so 
Boston College 30 Notre Dame leads 4-2
33 Omari Walker RB 5-10 209 so 34 Kiernan Speight DB 5-10 165 FR 
Notre Dame 11 Last ND win:
35 Keith Korrnanik s 5-11 192 SR 36 Greg Bartlett RB 6-Q 191 so 
54-7 in 1992 at Notre
37 Bill Varrichio DB 6-0 190 JR 3B Charlie Sm~h DB 5-10 179 JR 
Dame Stadium 
39 Paul Cary WR 5-7 155 JR 40 Phil Mrazic TE 6-8 222 FR 
The Eagles dominated in Last Boston College win:
41 Bobby Edmonds LB 6-3 222 so 42 Justice Smith RB 5-10 191 SR 
every phase of the game, 30-11 in 1994 
43 Jason Matecki p 6-3 210 FR 44 Daryl Porter CB 5-9 180 JR 
which was cause for a Streak: 2 by 
45 Donovan Yarbough LB 6-3 220 FR 46 Brian Maya LB 6-3 220 FR 
major celebration from Boston College 
47 Andrew Krauza LB 6-4 229 so 48 Jason Schermerhorn LB 6-3 222 JR 
the Alumni Stadium At Notre Dame Stadium: 
49 Terence Wiggins s 5-11 197 SR 51 Erik Storz LB 6-2 224 so 
crowd in 1994 (right). Notre Dame leads 2-1 
53 Jerod Funke DE 6-5 242 so 53 Grand Funk RK 6-2 220 JR 54 Tim O'Brien c 6-3 280 SR 55 Erik Lyman LB 6-2 229 SR 55 Coopersand Lybrand ACC 6-1 185 SR 56 Jermaine Monk LB 6-2 225 FR 56 Art Monk WR 6-0 190 SR 57 Matt Half LB 6-3 230 JR 58 Tim Morabito NG 6-3 263 SR 60 Andy Mitcham c 6-5 266 so 60 Robert Mitchum OG 6-2 190 FR 61 Jonathan Miles OL 6-5 244 so 63 Damian Woody OL 6-5 290 FR 65 Josh Porter OT 6-7 285 SR 66 Pete Kendall OT 6-5 290 FR 67 Mary Ann's OT 6-2 200 BAR 69 Darnell A~ord OL 6-4 300 FR 70 Dan Oriskovich OG 6-3 282 JR 71 Marl< Nori OG 6-4 290 JR 72 Butch Palaza OL 6-4 283 FR 73 John Coleman DL 6-2 271 JR 7 4 Doug Brzenzinski OT 6-5 282 so 75 Adam Myers OG 6-4 262 so 76 Mike Myers ww 5-8 160 JR 76 Garth Algar ww 5-7 145 JR 77 Tim Zeglin OT 6-7 265 so 78 Brian O'Connor OG 6-4 289 JR 79 John Hostetler c 6-3 283 so 80 Brent Gibbons TE 6-7 250 JR 80 Robin Gibbons MT 5-9 110 FR 81 Ryan Vannais TE 6-5 236 so 83 Scott Dragos TE 6-3 242 so 84 Ricky Lawson WR 5-7 162 SR 85 Dan Collins DT 6-5 235 so 86 Bryan Arndt TE 6-5 240 FR 87 Chris Sullivan DT 6-5 271 SR 88 Derrick Crittenden WR 5-11 180 FR 89 Todd Pollack TE 6-4 237 so 
STRONG 89 Baked Pollack FISH 1-3 12 FR 
SAFETY 90 Mar1<ell Blount LB 6-3 215 so 17-Maae• 91 Michael Hemmert TE 6-3 229 so 39-Guilbeaux 92 Nick Gianacakos DE 6-5 256 JR 93 Chris Sullivan DT 6-5 271 SR 94 Greg Fisher DE 6-3 245 so 95 Dave Kyle DT 6-4 238 so 96 Marcus Bembry DE 6-3 250 so 97 Joe O'Brien DT 6-5 274 SR 98 Mike Willetts DL 6-5 265 FR 99 Stalin Coline! DE 6-7 255 JR 

FIGHTING IRISH 
1 2 3 4 Tot PASSING Comp All Pet Vds TO lnt Lg FIELD GOALS Tot 
44 91 39 93 267 Powlus 114 199 57.3 1718 10 7 56 Kopka 6-11 
35 33 48 59 175 
RECEIVING Rec Vda Avg TO Lg PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg 
NO Opp Mayas 40 738 18.5 4 56 H. Smith 27 36.5 0 58 First downs 185 158 Edwards 22 301 13.7 2 46 Palumbo 1 16.0 0 16 Total yards 3468 2962 Mosley 15 249 16.6 1 51 
Total yards per game 433.5 370.3' Chryplawlcz 14 178 12.7 1 28 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO Lg 
Total offensive plays 600 540 Kinder 7 71 10.1 1 30 Sollmann 3 30.3 0 36 
Avg. yards per play 5.8 5.5 Wallace 6 73 12.2 0 35 Mosley 14 28.4 0 50 Rushing yards 1750 1519 Danson 6 65 10.8 0 15 
Rushing yards per game 218.8 189.9 Farmer 2 23 11.5 0 17 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg 
Rushing plays 401 340 Sollmann 1 15 15.0 1 15 Mosley 9 14.8 1 64 Paas1ng yards 1718 1443 Stafford 1 5 5.0 0 5 Sollmann 8 4.9 0 24 Pass1ng yards per game 214.8 180.4 Pa8888 completed 114 107 ALL-PURPOSE Rush Rec Ret Tot Avg INTERCEPTIONS No Passes ahempted 199 200 Kinder 640 71 5 716 102.3 Wooden 3 Passes Intercepted 7 10 Mosley 25 249 531 805 100.e Rossum, Cobbins 2 
Fumbles/ Fumbles lost 20/9 14/10 Mayas 10 738 0 748 93.5 Magee, Monahan, Moore 1 Penahles·Penalty yards 38-313 41-329 Edwards 420 301 0 721 90.1 Third down conversions e4-119 45-113 Farmer 148 23 42 213 71.0 DEFENSE T A Tot FC FA PBU s.c 
Percentage 54 40 Denson 439 e5 39 543 87.9 Cobbins 89 20 89 0 2 4 0.0 Fou~h down conversions 5-11 8-14 Chryplewicz 0 178 0 178 22.3 Berry 42 15 57 1 0 3 0.5 Tatum 36 20 56 1 0 2 0.5 Vd&/Gm No Vdo Avg TO Lg SCORING Pta Moore 24 22 46 0 1 2 0.0 
91.4 115 640 5.e 7 52 64 Magee 23 20 43 1 0 6 0.0 
54.9 95 439 4.e 5 25 48 Wooden 29 14 43 0 0 5 0.0 
52.5 87 420 4.8 8 45 20 22 42 0 2 3.5 33 30 28 13 1 0 2.5 2 2e 24 14 0 0 0.0 
11 15 0 5.0 12 0 0.0 
Poo. Hl WI.
Sept. 2 NORTHWESTERN LI 17-15 LOU HOLTZ 
Derrick Mayes 204 SA Kinnon Tatum LB e-o 216 JR
Sept. 9 "~ ~ afPurdue WI 35-28 WR 6-1 
Ron Powlus QB 6-2 217 JR Kory Minor LB 8-2 225 FA
Sept. 16.,, ~-VANQERBILTI'll!, 41-0 Tenth season at Notre Dame. 
Sept. n·:·'\ ·· 1EXAS'W. ~5-27 Emmett Mosley WR 5-9 160 JR
Career Record: 204-92-7 
Lyron Cobbins LB 8·0 241 JR
Sept. 30 • '&t Ohio St~te: Ll ~fi-26 Jarious Jackson QB 6-2 215 FA
\• . . -Against Boston College: 2-2 190
LaRon Moore s 5-9 SA
Oct. 7 atWasf!IOQt_g}l ~-U-21 10 Mike Perona e-1
QB 190 JR
Highlights: Reached 200-win milestone 
11 Tom Krug QB 6-4 208 JR
Oct. J4/'!my ~i~tsStadj~tW I 28-27 5-9 so
12 Scott Cengia K 179
against Purdue. Guided the Irish to a 
12 Mario Strayhorn DB 6-2 205 FA
Oct. 21 ~--..-USC WI 38-10 
13 Bert Berry LB 8-3 230 JR
National Championship in 1988 and 
,.
13 John Bishop CB 5-11 170 JR 14 Ivory Covington CB 5-9 161 so 
Oct. 28'iOsroN COLLEGr:.,_ _-1 
runner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993.
Nov. 4--NA~:t 15 Allen Rossuni CB 5-7 17e so 
1e Jerry Maloney K 5·11 174 JR
Nov. 18 17 Brian Magee s 5-10 204 SA 
17 Mart< McKenna QB 5-11 182 JR 
1 8 Clkai Champion WR 5-10 191 JR 
19 Marcus Thome RB e-o 224 SA 
20 Kevin Kopka K 5-8 175 FA 
21 Shannon Stephens RB 5-10 175 FA 
22 Shawn Wooden CB 5-11 188 SA 
23 Bill Gibbs s 5-10 179 JR 
23 Autry Denson RB 5-10 175 FA 
24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 183 so 
25 Randy Kinder RB 6-1 208 JR 
2e Marl< Monahan CB 5-11 184 SA 
NOTRE DAME 2e Chris McCarthy K 5-11 194 so 
27 Bobble Howard LB 5-11 210 FA 
STADIUM 28 Ken Barry RB 6.0 214 so 
29 Roni Enisle DB 6.0 180 JR 
29 A'Janl Sanders DB 5-11 175 FA 
30 Jarvis Edison s e-4 213 so 
31 Robert Farmer RB 5-10 208 JR
Opened in 1930 
32 Clement Stokes RB e-o 203 so Capacity: 57,075 'LB 222 so
33 John Mclaughlin 6-4 34 Jamie Spencer RB 6-1 245 FA 35 Scott Palumbo p 5-11 187 SA
Largest Crowd: 61,296 
35 Robert Phelps CB e-o 185 JR 3e Chlrs Wachtel p 5·11 211 JR
Surface: Grass 
LB 6-2 218 so CB 6-0 185
Irish at home: 244-70-50 
39 Benny Guilbeaux DB e-4 210 40 Kevin Carretta TE e-1 230 41 Joe Babey LB 6-1 227 
.. 
42 Mike Frascogna WR 5-8 164 43 Bill Wagasy LB 6-3 224 44 Marc Edwards RB 6-0 227 p e-3 195!~=;ii~~~~~~~====~-~:J 45 Hunter Smith RB 205
4e James Jackson 5-10 
4 7 Bill Mitoulas LB 6-1 217 
48 Renaldo Wynn DE 6-3 260 
49 Joe Thomas LB 6-3 205 
52 Alex Mueller OL 6-6 260 
53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-4 235 
54 Luke Petitgou1 OG e-e 282 
55 Shelton Jordan LB e-4 230 
58 Ku~ Belisle LB 6-2 220 
57 Rick Kaczenskl c 6-4 283 
58 Mike Burgdorl TE 6-0 205 
59 Matthew Kunz s 6-o 209 
60 Sean Rogers OT 5·10 260 
62 Mike McCullough NG 6-2 298 
85 Matt Griesbach OG 6-0 283 
66 Jeff Kilburg OG 6-4 278 
e7 John Wagner OL 6-8 300 
69 David Quist NG 6-6 281 
70 Tim Ridder OL 6-7 280 
71 Jerry Wlsne OL 6-7 282 
72 Ryan Leahy OG 6-4 288 
73 Mike Doughty OT 6-7 291 
75 Chris Clevenger OT 6-8 285 
76 Jeremy Akers OG 6-5 288 
n Dusty Zeigler c 6-6 292 
78 Jon Spickelmler c e-2 285 
79 Mike Rosenthal OL 6-7 290 
80 Malcolm Johnson WR 6-4 208 
81 Charles Stafford WR 5-9 167 
82 Bobby Brown WR e-3 175 
83 Scott Sollmann WR 5-8 180 
84 Dan McConnall WR 5-8 181 
8e Antwon Jonas DL 6-4 237 
87 Jimmy Friday LB e-3 230 
88 Leon Wallace TE 6-3 285 
89 Mike Denvir TE 6-3 231 
89 John Cerasani TE 6-4 245 
90 Ben Foos DE 6·4 250 
91 Darnell Smith DE e-5 2n 
93 Paul Grasmanis NG 6-2 279 
94 Justin Orr WR e-o 190 
95 Corey Benneu DE 6-1 228 
97 Corey Redder LB 6-1 220 
98 Pete Chryplewlcz TE 6-5 257 
99 Cliff Stroud DE 6-3 285

page6 
Bowls 
continued from page 1 
Troy Mathieu said. "All we know for sure is that there will be six teams to choose from at the end of the season, and chances are one of those teams will be Notre Dame." 
The Bowl Coalition has been replaced by the Bowl Alliance, which has brought with it to the table a new system of deciding a national champion. 
The Fiesta, Orange and Sugar Bowls are the only players in the new alliance. They'll host the national championship game on a rotational basis, tak­ing a different place in the selection order each year. 
The Fiesta Bowl, which is expecting to host a game between the first-second­ranked teams, naturally gets first and second picks from the draft pool. That's the prize for the $26 million price. 
The schools get the real prize, though. The top two teams get a payoff to the tune of $8.58 million. The remaining four teams get the shaft-$8.33 mil­lion a piece. 
"The bowls each bid separate amounts of money," Bowl Alliance Coordinator Tom Mickle said. "Then we throw the money into a pool and divide it up almost equally." 
The equal amounts tend to take away from the bidding wars that used to dominate for­mer years as well as the hunt for corporate sponsorship. Tostitos now sponsors the Fiesta Bowl, while the Sugar Bowl switched this year from USF&G to Nokia. 
"USF&G had a long run with this event," Mathieu said. "They wanted to move away from the national marketing scene." 
The national scene, mainly New Year's Day games, are where it's at for college football programs. And Notre Dame's in the center of it all. 
"The new alliance offers one at-large bid," Mickle said. "Notre Dame is guaranteed that bid if it finishes in the Top 10 in either poll." 
Champions from the Big East, Big Eight, Southeastern, Atlantic Coast and Southwest Conferences are given the five automatic bids. 
The Irish will most likely get the final spot if they finish the season at 9-2. That means no more losses. 
"We're back in business," offensive guard Ryan Leahy said following Notre Dame's 38­10 win over Southern Cal. "Now we just have to stay focused and not blow it." 
As it stands now, Florida State, Nebraska, Texas, Syracuse and Florida are lead­ing in their respective confer­ences. Notre Dame is only two places out the Associated Press Top 10 poll, which would clinch the final spot. 
Hypothetically, if these teams continue to win, the situation would have Florida State and Nebraska playing for the national championship in the Fiesta Bowl. That would leave the Orange Bowl, which paid the Bowl Alliance $16 million, with the third and fifth picks. 
"You would have to think that they'd choose Florida with the third pick, since they would probably be the highest ranked available choice," Mickle said: 
That would leave the Sugar Bowl, who put out $10 million, with the fourth choice-most likely Notre Dame. The fifth and sixth selections would be either Texas or Syracuse. Though nei­ther have much national expo­sure, Texas would probably be 
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 
chose'n first because of the higher ranking. 
That would leave the Irish facing the Orangemen in New Orleans. 
"It doesn't really upset us that we're getting the leftovers," Mathieu said. "We knew this going in. Next year we're host­ing the national championship." 
If the Irish do not finish in the top 10, they will have to use other means to qualify for the draft pool. The three possibili­ties are to: 1) Record eight wins in a season; 2)Finish in the Top 12 of bowl-eligible teams; or 3) Finish ranked higher than any one of the conference champi­ons participating in the Bowl Alliance. 
"You can qualify in any one of the three ways," Mickle said. "Once a team qualifies, it's thrown into a pool with a bunch of teams. Then, it's anybody's guess who the Bowl decides on." 
A feasible Aloha Bowl matchup could pit fifth-ranked Tennessee against No. 7 Colorado, who could end up fin­ishing third in the Big Eight. Of course, the Irish could end up in Honolulu come Christmas Day as well. 
"Because of the different con­ference tie-ins to the bowls, if Notre Dame is not selected for an Alliance Bowl, they could drop as low as the Aloha or Gator Bowl," Mickle said. "That's why we had to guaran­tee them an opportunity to have that at-large bid." 
If the Irish are thrown into the pool with teams the likes of Tennessee, Northwestern or Colorado, they could end up playing before New Year's Day. 
"That's the element of sur­prise," Orange Bowl Assistant Director of Communications Dave Kobuszewski said. "You can choose any team from a number of possibilities." 

But with Notre Dame's national exposure and enor­mous following, chances are it would be selected either way. 
"Notre Dame is an attractive option for any bowl game," Mathieu said. "They have a fine history and a great propensity for gathering viewership." 
And in the crazy world of col­lege football, Notre Dame could even end up ranked higher than some of the top-ranked teams as it stands this week. 
Losses to Colorado this week and Kansas in upcoming weeks could send Nebraska out of the bowl picture completely. The Irish could find themselves fac­ing the loser of the Florida­Florida State contest. 
"With no more conference ties, the Orange Bowl has the opportunity to host some teams that haven't been here in awhile in matchups we've never had," Kobuszewski said. "I think Notre Dame _against Florida or Florida State would be a terrific game." 
It's practically a no-lose situa­tion for the Irish. Jump a couple of spots in the polls and make $8 million. Lose another game and probably do the same thing. 
Add to that the knowledge that the Cotton Bowl is now tied in with the second-place teams from the Big Eight and Pac-10, and Irish eyes are probably smiling. 
All the way to the bank. 

~~~------------~~~ 
:· ~t>__q nFF · : 
I ANY PURCHASE~VER $19 I 
I I 
: 271-0125 : 
II 
I I GOOD THROUGH 11/3/95 
11
NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER COUPON • ONE COUPON PER ORDER 
~~~------------~~~ 
:. $100 OFF . : 
I ANY PURCHASE
1 
I 
: 271-0125
us I 
GOOD THROUGH 11/3/95NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER COUPON ONE COUPON PER ORDER
II 
I 
I I
II: 
', 
Chinese Cuisine 
LOCATED AT THE 
Delivery Hours:
CAMPUS SHOPPES 
Mon-Sun 
Noire 
Dane latt.er 
field 
4:30 pm·li~®® am 
DELIVER! 
$8.00 Minimum Order 
r----------------,
DINNER FOR TWO ~ $10H 
•SWEET 
AND SOUR CHICKEN 

•CHICKEN 
FRIED RICE 

•2 
EGG ROLLS 

•2 
CREAM CHEESE WONTONS 

•FORTUNE 
COOKIES 


271-0125 
GOOD THROUGH 11/3/95L ~ ~~!!"'!!!~ !!Y!!H,!! ~U!2,N.:.o!! ~~ !!,R,!!D,;!..1 

Friday, October 27, 1995 
Enough 
•
IS 
Enough 
After two years of season-destroying defeats, Notre Dame at last recognizes a rivalry with Boston College 
By TIM SHERMAN 
U
ntil 1993, it was much win a national championship. like a relationship 1993 was as close as you can come."
between brothers. If But little brother BC wasn't
the younger brother hounded his older sibling satisfied with depriving the enough, the elder would finally Irish of just a national title, they 
give in and go out to the drive­wanted a little piece of the per­way hoop and play a little one­ceived Notre Dame holier-than­on-one. And while the older thou and better-than-you atti­
brother was a head taller and a tude. That they got in last shade better, he would always year's 30-11 drubbing of the Irish in Chestnut Hill, Mass.
let the younger remain compet­itive. 
"BC manhandled us last 
But in situations like this, year," Notre Dame coach Lou there comes a time when the Holtz said. "I mean they beat 
younger brother finally sprouts us in every facet of the game. They outcoached us, they out­
up and beats the older brother. played us, they outhit us, and
Boston College hit that date on November 20, 1993. But they outkicked us." they didn't just beat their older Surprisingly enough, the Irish 
brother Notre Dame in a harm­were also beat at the one thing 
less driveway basketball game, they should have had going for they denied the Irish of a them -the motivation to exact national championship. revenge. 
"For a lot of the guys, there is But instead of being front and 
a sense that they stole some­center in the minds of the play­thing from us," senior guard ers and coaches, it was sub­Hyan Leahy said of Boston merged in talk that the BC 
game was like any other. 
College's 41-39's shocking upset victory. "When you come This year, this Irish have to Notre Dame you expect to realized that this isn't any other game. It's now a rivalry.
,--"..,.,.---..,.--, 

page 7 

The Observer/Kyle Kusek 
Above: This sign at last year's game said it all. For the Irish, twice is plenty. In fact, it's too much. 
Below: Eagles running back Justice Smith dives into the end zone past Notre Dame's Brian Magee during 
last year's 30-11 Boston College victory. 
.. 
"If this isn't a rivalry, I don't Recognizing this game as true Everything was Notre Dame know what is," Leahy said. rivalry is a step in that direc­this and Notre Dame that. It 
And with a rivalry comes a tion. And why shouldn't they. was crazy last year when they sense of purpose. This year "These are probably the two stormed the field. They were that purpose is clear. And biggest Irish Catholic schools," spitting and everything else." while Notre Dame may not said Leahy, who should know The only thing Leahy and the exactly be the Fightin' Italians, considering his legendary rest of the Irish want to spit on the legbreakers.are out. It's grandfather Frank coached at is Boston College's hope of a payback time. both. "We have a lot in com­third straight upset. 
"This is definitely an opportu­mon." "I've been looking forward to nity for a little revenge," junior Leahy does see one significant this game since the beginning linebacker Kinnon Tatum said. difference. of the year," Tatum said. "The "We owe them big-time." "Their fans are not the classi­junior and senior class espe­
Actually, the Eagles may owe est around. I respect their cially want this game bad." Notre Dame something as well players. They just get down Bad enough to even call it a -gratitude. and play hard but the fans are rivalry. It took them long 
The nationally televised epic very negative and rowdy. enough. in 1993 afforded the Eagles a level of national attention unseen since the days of Heisman Trophy winner Doug Flutie. It meant an expansion to their on-campus Alumni Stadium and it got them in the doors of recruits who previous­ly had eyes only for the Irish. 
The Eagles aren't satisfied. 
"Chances are, they don't have a very good chance to get to a bowl, so they'll probably look at this game as their season," Holtz said. 
"For Boston College, all they want to do is win this game," Leahy added. "Their season is complete if they beat us. It's • our job to make sure their sea­son stays incomplete." 
Photos by The Observer/Mike Norbul an~~/~~ 
Left: Offensive tackle and All­American Pete Kendall (right). at his favorite BC establishment, Mary Ann's. This photo was taken just days before Boston College's 49-7 loss at the hands of Army. Former line mate Greg Landry, who left school early for the NFL but was not drafted, is now a bouncer at the same establish­ment. 
Right: Boston College students tear down the goal posts before visiting Mary Ann's, Landry, and Kendall in 1994. 

--~~--------­
--------------. 
~--­
pageS The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, October 27, 1995 
• JOCK STRIP 
If you're Notre Dame, 
TEAM RECORD
people will come 

1. Florida St. (34) 7-0-0 
evidenced .--------., though it's about half 
2. Nebraska (23) 7-0-0 
y last the trip. They don't 
3. Florida (1) 6-0-0 

w e e k ' s get out the RV's and 
4. Ohio State (4) 7-0-0 
umiliating head down to West 
5. Tennessee 6-1-0
thrashing at the Virginia though there 
--6. Kansas 7-0-0
hands of Army, is plenty of dislike Boston College is involved. But they do 

·, 7. Colorado 6-1-0 
8. Northwestern 6-1-0 matters little to fol-Tim Sherman And so does every­slumping. But that . come to Notre Dame. 
9. Michigan 6-1-0 
lowers of 2-5 BC. Associat_e Sports body else. Fans rang­
10. Oregon 6-1-0
Editor . f th "th t

The eyes of Chestnut 
Hill will be squarely focused 
on South Bend on Saturday. 
That is, all eyes that are actu­
ally still in the Boston area. 
As you've probably realized by now, there is mob of BC
• 
fans, students, and other drunken Irishmen looking for "baahs with good beeah" floating around South Bend. 
But don't be mistaken, the 
hoard didn't trek the 1000 miles to soak in the radiant ambiance of Jazzman's or ex­perience that haven of hook­ups that is the 'Backer. 
Nor did they come because they're such ardent Eagle booster. Actually. if you eliminate little Dougie Flutie and Glenn "J-E-T-S" Foley, many "fans" couldn't name five Eagle players, past or presenf. 
They come to Notre Dame because it's Notre Dame. 
They don't load down rent­ed vans with as much Busch Light as possible to go to schools like Syracuse, even mg rom ose WI ou 

11. Auburn 5-2-0 
a chance of leaving with a 
12. Notre Dame 6·2·0
win like Vanderbilt's support­ers to the overconfident 
13. Southern Cal 6-1-0 
14. Kansas St. 6-1-0fanatics of Southern Cal all 
flock to college football's 
15. Texas 5-1-1 
Mecca each football weekend. 
16. Penn St. 5-2-0 
They come armed with 
:17. Washington 5-2-0 
cameras, enough school 
18. Alabama 5·2·0
paraphernalia to clothe a small Ethiopian tribe, and 
19. Texas A&M 4-2-0 
20. Virginia 6-3-0Visa cards just itching to hit 
the bookstore. They dutifullly 
21. Syracuse 6-1-0 
wander down to the JACC for 

*""\ 22. Texas Tech 4-2-0
the Pep Rally. make the 
.4. \23. Oklahoma 4-2-1
requsite visit to the Basilica, and maybe even light one at 
~ _ 124. UCLA 5·2·0 the Grotto for the old school. 
~0--..1 25. Iowa 5-1-0 
All this in hopes of 
PREY· 
POINTS lOllS 
1510 1 1499 2 1420 3 1398 4 1273 6 1244 7 1143 9 1087 11 1035 10 941 12 889 13 846 17 828 5 700 8 695 16 636 19 512 20 446 21 390 22 288 14 255 •• 237 25 231 15 219 -­212 18 
experiencing what we par­take of on a regular occasion. 
• THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF 
So when you hear the BC 
Editor: Mike Norbut 
fans complaining about their 
Managing Editor: Tim Sherman
road trip debacles, smile. And when they start to get 
Associate Editor: Tim Seymour obnoxious sit back and laugh. 
Graphic Design: Chris Mullins It's all about knowing that 
Production: Thomas Schlidt 
what they just traveled"lOOO 
Contributing Writers: 
miles for. we can just roll out 
Andy Cabiness, Megan McGrath, 
of bed into. Don't take it for granted. 

II GAMES OF INTEREST 
#2 NEBRASKA at #7 COLORADO It's a convenient time for Lawrence Phillips to make his anticipated yet shady return for the Cornhuskers. Tom Osborne is right not to take the B~ffs lightly in Boulder. Could an upset be brewing? 
#6 KANSAS at #14 KANSAS STATE "Rock, Chalk, Jayhawk" is becoming a gridiron war cry. This year's edition of the once-moribund in-state rivalry has an actual bearing on the Big Eight race. All June Henley wants to do is dance in the end zone. 
#13 SOUTHERN CAL at #17 WASHINGTON The Trojans have already booked their reservations in Pasadena for the Rose Bowl. Rashaan Shehee is look­ing to run like that guy from the Bears with the same first name. 
#8 NORTHWESTERN at ILLINOIS It's the battle for the Land of lincoln. This used to be a sure-win for the Illini. Now it looks more like anoth­er stepping stone for the no longer mild Wildcats. 
II PEERLESS PROGNOSTICATORS 

,, Tim Sherman 
(23-9-1) 
Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame Colorado Nebraska Nebraska Kansas Kansas Kansas Washington Washington Southern Cal 
Northwestern Northwestern Illinois 

-

"'' l'tttliclt: 
Notre Dame 38 
Boston College 27 ''The Most Popular # on Campus'' Notre Dame Saint Mary's f University Villaue 271-1177 271-7272 
''We're Proud ofthe Irish ... BEAT THE EAGLES!'' 
Notre Dame  Saint Mary's  
Store Hours  Store Hours*  
Mon-Th I lam-lam  Mon-Sat  
Fri-Sat  I lam-lam  
llam-3am Sun Noon-lam  Sunday Noon-lam  
r  --­ ~ -,  r  -"P;J;Pa"Ck ­ ,  r !at:N;t:s';;cl:i ,  r liroei1oiiPino ,  r -L7l':ilsp';;,-,  


I Large I I 4Large I I Large I I Bread Stix I I 1Small 2Topping I I 1Topping Pizza I I 1Topping Pizzas I I 1Topping Pizza I I 2Cokes I I 2Cokes I 
.$ ' . L-~~~:J L_S_2_2~~J L-~~~=J L-~~o~o:J L-~~~:J
' 
/ 
*From 1:00am-3:00am {Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 







