
Friday, February 24, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 94 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
·:i STUDENT S£NAn 
Student Senate 
.

campaigns begin 
ByTOMMORAN News Writer 

On Monday. several candidates will vie for the right to represent their quads in this year's Student Senate elections. Elections will be held for OIT-Campus co-presidents on Monday as well. 
Four candidates are campaigning for the South Quad senatorial spot: Lyons sophomore Mai Ly, Dillon sophomore Seth Miller, Alumni sophomore .John Minni, and Carroll freshman Patrick Belton. 
Ly has an extensive platform with a variety of ideas. Among them are a proposal for moving South Dining Hall's Grab-'N-Go system to the din­ing hall basement as a way of countering the long lines the system tends to produce. 
l.y also wants to create a new, universal student ID that could function at the dining hall and as a detex as well as in the laundry centers, book­store(as a debit card), and copy machines. She also proposes a new Safewalk system using golf rarts, new exercise equipment for the Rock, an rxpanded Architecture building computer cluster, the return of D2 parking as soon as possible, and a 'Spring Fling' open-air South Quad mixer. 
Seth Miller also has an extensive platform. He favors an increase in exercise facilities including more exercise space in the Rock, the creation of better facilities in dorms(including the introduc­tion of equipment to dorms that currently have none). and lobbying for placement of the new lleeSports building on South Quad, near the new O'Neill and Keough Halls. 
Miller also proposes to re-open the Campus Srcurity Building for evening studying, to put stu­rlnnts on the South Quad planning committee to try 1 o keep its "community feeling" as it changes 1hrough expansion, and to hold an open-air quad mass in the fall. Miller stresses that he has done a great deal of research in making these proposals and feels that they are "not rhetoric" but rather realistic and fully attainable goals. 
.John Minni's platform consists of a plan to ac·quire more parking for South Quad students, possibly near Debartolo and the new Business Building. He also wants to uphold the University's decision to evict GLND/SMC from their longtime meeting place, as well as legalize cigarettes in campus buildings. 
Sophomor 
SaintM 
Colle~ 
.Friday. February 24 
J-6 p.m. Registration, Haggar College Center 7 p.m. Nursing Capping Ceremony, Church of Lorretto 7 and 9:30 p.m. SAB movie: "The Professional," Carroll Auditorium 8 p.m. play: "To Gillian on her 37th Birthday," Little Theatre, Moreau Center for the Arts 
1 
9 p.m. Crack Ups Comedy Cafe, Haggar Parlor _ Saturday, }'"'ehnu.u·y 25 10 a.m.-12 p.m. Faculty Open House, 
LeManns Hall lobby 12 p.m. Lunch (on own) 2 p.m. Belles last home basketball game vs. 
Anderswon College, Angela Athletic Facility 4:30p.m. Mass, Church of Lorretto 6 p.m. Social Hour, Century Center 7 p.m. Dinner Century Center 
9:30 p.m.-1 a.m. Dance, with band Pegasus, 
I Century Center S u n daJ, Februar)· 26 
18 a.m.-12 p.m. Continental Breakfast, Stapleton Lounge, LeMans Hall 
1 
Students offer t . t ax ass1s ance ByBRADPRENDERGAST Assistant News Editor \  
If the thought of perusing W-2 and 1040 forms and wading through receipts makes you dread preparing your tax return, imagine preparing 40 returns by April15. Now imagine actually enjoying it. Believe it or not, 60 junior and senior account­ing majors from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are volunteering about three hours each week to give free assistance to low-income taxpayers in preparing their state and federal tax returns, and many students say the experience is worth it. "Last Thursday, I helped a lady get back an extra $300," said Ann Marie Achille, a junior volunteer. "Considering that her gross income was about $7000, I felt good that I was able to figure that out for her." In its 24th year, the Tax Assistance Program helps taxpayers with annual incomes of $25,000 or less prepare their forms at any of 11 sites in the South Bend area, including Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns and Saint Mary's Haggar Center. Last year, more than 2000 tax returns were filed through the program. Notre Dame's TAP, ranked second among l assistance programs nationwide based on num­her of returns filed, is available to area resi­dents, college students, and University employ­ees. International students can also utilize the program to determine how much U.S. tax they owe. "It serves a great purpose," Catherine Anderson, a junior in the program, said. "Lower income people tend to have a greater chance of not knowing about credits that can get them a larger return, so any information that we can provide them really helps." Students like Anderson gain their information and skills by completing the Accounting 4 76 course, Introduction to Federal Tax, and by attending a three-week one-credit training class in preparing returns before applying their knowledge to actual forms. The thorough §.~ preparation is enough to convince many clients that the students' skills are legitimate. One such client is Francis Sousley, a Mishawaka resident and custodian of Stanford  
6see TAXES 1page  

·.~II • i .... L , .....__... ~ ~. ·~ """ 
_!,!_;:·1:1.;:,

\ A. 
___..,.......... 

,.,... : ::~~.--.,-,.,, ....... 
.... :.. ,,...
','#' ; .~-; 
~~..,:~\......... 

.i 
4 
·._ ....................____ -~· 
. ·~ 
.. ll 
;~ . ... ·-·---­
Ill IM:~'i''' -".­,;_·), 
' ....... -.~" 
~ 
#· 
· ~ , " 
/. 
// 

~·-· 
.. 


,. 

~,.. -· .. _;~.-­
.. --.JF~.~·-_-/
-·--·· a-~ 
............. -..... --,; 
~­

..... 
~ • -· ., ". 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Saint Mary's Senior Jenny Ferry checks a tax return tor possible errors. 
SMC sophomores prepare for parents 
By DIANA LANZILLOTTA 
News Writer 
Sophomores will have the cleanest dorm rooms on cam­pus this weekend as nearly 500 parents and students will participate in Sophomore Parents Weekend sponsored by the sophomore class council and the Student Activities Office at Saint Mary's College. 
Melissa Sanchez of LeMans Hall chairs this year's event. With the help of class council committee members and Mar­lene Johnson of Student Activi­ties, she has organized a week­end filled with a variety of cul­tural, educational, sporting, and social events for parents and daughters to share. 
"Things get so hectic. This weekend is time to set things aside and just spend time to­gether and bond," said Sanchez. 
Events of note include the faculty open house on Saturday from 10 a.m. to noon in the LeMans Hall lobby. At least two faculty members from each department will be present so parents will have a chance to meet their daughters' profes­sors. 
"Parents should leave with a good feeling that their daugh­ters are getting a good educa­tion," said Sanchez. 
Later Saturday, the NCAA will honor Saint Mary's sopho­more Lori Lagenderfer of Holy Cross Hall during the half-time of the Belles vs. Anderson Col­lege basketball game. Lagen­derfer, a pitcher for the Belles softball team, will receive a plaque for winning the NCAA division III championship for the most saves. This game against Anderson begins at 2 
p.m. in the Angela Athletic Fa­cility and will be the Belles last home game of the season. 
Sanchez anticipates a mean­ingful 4:30 p.m. Saturday mass in the Church of Lorretto. 
"Mass will be a special time because Sunday mass is some­thing that we can't do with our parents while we are away from home. It will be nice to. share mass once again in a full and beautifully decorated church." She also mentioned the semi-formal dinner and dance at the Century Center as an opportunity for all to have a good time and an occasion for sophomores to share their par­ents and friends with each other. 
Marlene Johnson, advisor to the sophomore class council, said that Sophomore Parents Weekend is "a good chance for students to show their parents what Saint Mary's has come to mean to them and for parents to come to the realization that their daughters have come to be adults." This weekend, sophomores will have diiTerent ways of expressing this to their parents. 
Amy Ashby and her room­mates in Holy Cross Hall plan on cooking a special dinner for their parents on Friday to in­troduce parents to friends and vice-versa. 
"This weekend I want to give my parents a chance to spend time with me and time away from working and home," says Ashby. She also adds that she hopes her parents will leave on Sunday with the sense "that their money is going to a good cause." 
Julie Kerr of McCandless Hall has volunteered to serve 
see SPW/ page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 24, 1995 

• Wtnli..O AT A GLANCE
• iNSIDE COI..UMN 
In Mafia's back yard, young mayor fights old scourge 



If not 
"We have the task to do something. For many years no CORLEONE, Sicily one could do anything here in this very, very difficult Shortly after he was elected mayor,,..,..,,....------=---,..------..,,...----,town," said the 33-year-old mayor

personal, 
Giuseppe Cipriani was given some advice elected last year. "Corleone is a city on job security. searching to be normal." A calrs head with its eyes propped Sometimes it seems the cloak of the was left on his fiancee's doorstep. Mafia is being slowly shed by Corleone,
what was it? 
leaked down a step into a small pool. whose notoriety spread worldwide after 
Cipriani knew the trail led directly author Mario Puzo used its name for his the Mafia. And he interpreted the me fictional crime family in "The sage as any hometown boy would: Don' Godfather." stick your neck out. "The Mafia today has major problems 
If you have not heard the buzz around Saint Mary's 

He cleaned off the steps and threw such has how to fit in with a society that campus, the junior class tick­
head in the trash. He has crumpled -for better or worse -is changing ... et of Leslie F1eld (president), 
death threat letters and shrugged off j This can be a moment of great victory Emily Ruffner (vice presi­
during anti-mob marches throu for us or one of great difficulty," said dent), Becky Kellogg (secre­
Corleone, home base of the most Cipriani.
tary), and Annie Korte (trea­
and ruthless Sicilian crime family. He took a long pause then added:surer) lost the junior class 
Cipriani counts himself among t "Their counterattack is not over."
election, Thursday evening, Jennifer Lewis 
young Sicilians willing to confront the Cipriani goes to schools to encourageto "Casper the Friendly 
mob on its own turf and try to break its influence on youngsters to turn away from the money and the status to. the abstained vote. Sports Ed1tor Ghost." That's right, they lost Saint Mary's 
everything from the flow of illegal drugs to the awarding offered by the Mafia. He says he "hits a wall" when he There are approximately 
of public contracts. tries to talk to older people on the subject. 400 women in the junior class at Saint Mary's. And 53 percent of the 200 women who did take 

Carter visits Haiti to aid democracy Smoking banned at Dunkin' Donuts 
the time to vote abstained. An underground group of students supposedly r.ame together and formed a conspiracy against 

BOSTONPORT-AU-PRINCEthe Field ticket. Small signs were posted on To some, it's a taste of heaven -a coffee, a doughnut

Former President Carter returned
bulletin board, campaign slogans and slurs 

and a cigarette. But Dunkin' Donuts said Thursday it is
today to the country where his last­
r.ould be found written on blackboards, and banning smoking in its 3,000 U.S. franchises. Sure, moreditch negotiating averted a U.S. inva­wagging tongues circulated rumors around than half of the franchises are already smoke free. Butsion and where the American troopsr.ampus, all stating the same thing-abstain the 
some managers fear they'll lose business when the

that landed peacefully are now gettingvote. 
Dunkin' Donuts smoking ban begins June 1. "These peo­Frighteningly impressed by this lack of apa­

ready to leave. "We are very happy to thy, I observed the outcome of the election ple don't necessarily buy doughnuts, it's the coffee," said
be back in Haiti," Carter said after rather closely. Some took pride in their political 
Cecelia Valentine,

arriving at the Port-au-Prince airport, a Dunkin' Donuts manager in 
Milwaukee, Ore. 'They like to come in, they smoke, andvoice of abstaining when other dedicated Field where he proclaimed his dedication "to supporters were left dumbfounded. When I they smoke fairly regularly. We may lose them." Brazilpeace, human rights and democracy." Many Haitiansindividually asked students why they abstained, Arvello, a retired oil company laborer who sat with fiveresent Carter, feeling he let their oppressors off too easi­not one of them gave me a political answer or friends at a Dunkin' Donuts in Pasadena, Texas, says "We ly. The city was bedecked in red graffiti telling Carter tofwen knew the issues the Field ticket offered. If have our therapy session here every day." He says they'll go home. Although Carter's September negotiations likely there were solid reasons why this ticket should find someplace else for their daily gathering when the

saved thousands of lives, Haiti's military rulers were
not have won, I would have applauded my class; smoking ban takes effect. Jennifer Rosenberg, a spokes­allowed to stay in power for almost a month before leav­but as of now, not one person I talked to can list woman for the Randolph, Mass.-based chain. said busi­a single concrete reason. 
ing -unpunished -for exile. Carter said he planned to Elections are supposed to be judged by politi­
ness hasn't dropped at the franchises that already ban"explore ways in which we might be helpful in reinforc­smoking.

lr.al issues, how did this one turn so personal? 
ing a free and fair electoral process." 
Instead of putting all one's efforts into abstain­
Iing, why didn't those supporting the abstain ballot form a ticket? In doing so, they could have argued their points, and our class would have a president. 
The only clue I had that an election was tak­
Author, vet James Herriot dies at 78

ing place was the lone florescent sheet of paper 
Nike ad features HIV-positive runner


<>taring at me in the bathroom. "Is there only one ticket running for juniordass president'?" I inquired in disbelief. 
LONDON 

PORTLAND 
James Herriot, who shared his experiences as a coun­guess they automatically win? Right?" 
"That's right," my roommate bellowed. "I 
Nike is including an HIV-positive athlete in a new pro­
try veterinarian in the best-selling memoir "All Creatures I clearly recognized all of their names and 
motion for its "Just Do It" campaign. While many adver­Great and Small," died Thursday in the Yorkshire Dales Iheir sporty picture helped me remember their 
tisers have carefully steered away from the AIDS issue, 
where he had ministered to animals for half a century. He races. Like all candidates, the Field ticket had 

Nike launched an ad earlier this month featuring runner 
was 78. Herriot died of prostate cancer at his home nearideas that would improve class unity: multicul­

Ric Munoz. As the scenery changes, captions say: "Rick 
Thirsk, his granddaughter, Emma Page, said. "He hadtural awareness, increased women's health 

Munoz. Los Angeles; 80 miles every week; 10 marathons 
been ill for three years but he had borne his illness very education, and scheduled class masses. I par­

every year; HIV positive; Just Do It." "Nike has never 
patiently and bravely. His family were all with him whenticularly liked the junior class video yearbook. 

been a company that looks for the safest solution," 
he died peacefully at home today," she said. Herriot ­I low cool would that be? But, I was not going 

spokesman Keith Peters said. "Our feeling is that HIV 
the pen name and alter ego of James Alfred Wight ­to how much candidates can really accomplish. 
to hold my breathe. We all know there is a limit 
causes a strong response, but we wouldn't want it to 
wrote 1.5 books in the time that he could wrest away from Anybody seen the Dead lately? 
cause one of pity, rather one of understanding about 
his practice. They sold some 50 million copies in 20 coun­Nevertheless, it was not the Field ticket ideas 

what determination really is." "Finally, at least one main­
tries. A quiet, modest man with a trace of his Glasgowalone that set them apart from the rest. It was 

stream marketer is acknowledging reality -that there 
upbringing in his voice, "Air' Wight kept out of the lime­their accomplishments and their willingness to 

are millions of people living with HIV," said Bradley 
light as best he could. His first two books in Britain wererun that set them apart. 

Johnson, a Los Angeles editor of Advertising Age maga­
"If Only They Could Talk" and "It Shouldn't Happen to aSince facts tell us they are obviously experi­

zine. The ad fits Nike's "Just Do It" slogan, said Jack 
Vet." In America, they were published in 1972 as one vol­enced, why didn't they win? There had to be a 

Cox, a member of the Portland-based HIV Advocacy 
ume under the title "All Creatures Great and Small" -amiscommunication because 51 percent of the 

Council. "It's an affirmation that says, 'Do what you can. 
phrase borrowed from an English hymn for children. lly thought there was no reason for them to 
·l·unior class did not vote. Like me, they proba-
Just do your life,"' he said. vote, that the Field ticket had already won the election. By abstaining, the study body challenges their rlass to create another ticket. Undoubtedly,
I

another ticket will form but, in the end the question will be, where were they the first time \

around? 






Friday, Feb. 24 

The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 24. 

I 

Accu-Weather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
I 
I 
I 
I 
! 
i 

The views expressed in the Inside ColumnIrrre those of the author and not necessarily!I hose ofThe Observer. 
News Sports Kristi Kolski Matt Casey Amy Schmidt Production Viewpoint Michelle Marcotte 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Pressure

Suzy Fry David Diaz 
H L

Lab Tech Accent 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 

Mike Hungling Krisra Nannery 
Vl.oo Acr'lnrl-.tM p,_c; 


Atlanta 62 42 Dallas 53 New Orleans 73 50 Baltimore 43 35 31 New York 41 32 Boston 34 27 56 Philadelphia 41 31

The Ob,.,rver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
~~~~~~ ~ ~ di1 
! ··xcept during exam and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of 
Chicago 50 33 63 Phoenix 77 57
S~~;e~ T-;t~;,;;s Rain ~;~;;e~ ~~~·~· ~~ -Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
he Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Columbus 46 36 27 St. Louis 68 41 

VIa Associated Press GraohicsNet C1995 Accu-Wealher. Inc 



Friday, February 24, 1995 
Former SMC alumna, CEO of Xerox Canada speaks 
By ANNE DELANEY 
News Writer 
The point of being successful io.; to recognize, understand and use teamwork skills and behav­iors, according to Diane Daly McGarry, an alumna of Saint Mary's College who spoke in Saint Mary's Carroll Auditorium last night as the Spring Shannon Executive Scholar. 
In a lecture entitled "Leadership in the New 1\lillennium," McGarry focused on the challenges and rewards of attaining the Corporate Executive Officer's position at Xerox corporation. 
"The freedom of choices ex­ists when you have a great ca­reer," stated McGarry. 
The lecture was part of the Shannon Executive Scholar Program, which enables stu­dents to meet and learn from distinguished professional alumnae. 
McGarry was named to her current position as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Ollicllr of Xerox Canada Inc. in 1 993, after having held a vari­ety of sales, marketing and ex­ecutive management positions with the company. 
ller education at Saint Mary's left her with many valu­able skills, which include gain­ing an awamness for diversity and becoming self-sufficient and organized. 
"Learning to think, though, was by far the most important skill I learned at Saint Mary's." She majored in Humanistic Studies and left after three years, having entered the col­lege at the age of 15. After col­lege, she married and moved to Chicago. 
Her start with Xerox came at a time when her focus was on survival, and not success, as she had been recently divorced and had to support her daugh­ter as a single mother. "Academics taught me disci­pline; environment taught me about life." 
As a woman sales represen­tative in the early seventies, she was looked upon as a nov­elty, especially in small towns such as Fort Wayne. "It worked, though; they bought from me. The measure of suc­cess back then was who you were, not how well you did things." 
She went from Fort Wayne to the Compton-Watts area in California, which was one of her biggest challenges. 
McGarry looked upon every assignment she had as a learn­ing experience. "They were all different, challenging, reward­ing and included a lot of per­sonal sacrifices for my daugh­ter. All I needed to do was get 
see XEROX/ page 6 
------~------­

l 
l 

The ObserverfTara Mooney 

Saint Mary's Alumni Kathy Hank Collett ('75), Spring Shannon Executive Scholar Diane Daly McGarry ('70), and Mary Lou Gorno ('72) gather at last night's lecture. 
McGarry describes her success story 
By KARA PAVLIK News Writer 
Twenty-Five years ago when Diane Daly McGarry attended Saint Mary's College, her biggest challenge was how to organize three dates on the same weekend. Today as Chairman, President, and CEO of Xerox Canada her challenges have evolved into organizing a major corporation. 
McGarry has held her current position of Xerox Canada CEO 


Chinese 

(~t--.c_ I 


ELIVER 
Szechuan • Hunan • Mandarin Delivery Hours 4:30-11:00 p.m. m-~-00 -m 
($8 minimum order) 7Days a Week! ~
~ .O,f 
255-7777 
9 MONTH LEASES FOR STUDENTS 3 MONTH SUMMER LEASES ·Pool & Jacuzzi 
• 
Club House 


• 
Washer/Dryer 

• 
Microwaves 


• 
Intruder Alarms 


since October of 1993. Prior to being appointed CEO, McGarry was director of sales operations for Rank Organization in the United Kingdom marketing Xe­rox products throughout Eu­rope and parts of Asia. 
Having attended a female lib­eral-arts college, McGarry be­lieves that her education pre­pared her for the obstacles she faces as CEO. 
"Saint Mary's provided me with a multi-faceted education. I learned how to think and gen­eral management skills," Mc­Garry said, "Saint Mary's en­abled me to deal with others from different backgrounds, skills and lives." 
While attending Saint Mary's McGarry earned a degree in Humanistic Studies. Although she later went on to receive a bachelor of science degree in business administration from the University of Redlands in 1980, Saint Mary's enabled her self-sufficient, self-confident, and learned how to organize my life. I believe the quality of my education was an outgrowth of the quality of the environ­ment," McGarry said. 
McGarry joined Xerox in 1973 as a sales representative in Fort Wayne, Ind. She contributes much of her early success to the fact that she was a single mother struggling for survival. 
"At this time the measure of my success depended on quo­tas. Opportunities were avail­able because I took the line jobs, the risky jobs," McGarry said, "But my first priority was providing for my daughter." According to McGarry, a cer­tain degree of humility allows one with the means to become a better corporate leader. 
"Humility makes you listen more. Great leaders listen to what everyone has to say and brings it together to make since of it all." 


with any purchase Jl
fllllld lhffllllh ~. •
,._..,.,,_,.,.,. .
$10 __...., 
'*'"-· 
Indiana Toll Road 
McKinley Jefferson Blvd. 
Lincolnway East 
CHILDREN and SENIOR CITIZENS
$3.75 
$3.75 BARGAIN MATINEES • Before 6 PM EVENING ADULT ADMISSION


$.5.75 
Friday, February 24, 1995

page 4 The Observer • NEWS 
that he "has no set list of continuing the policy of the ideas," but that he will "try and University's paying the entry
Senate SPW McGarry
act on the concerns of all the fees of off-campus RecSports 
continued from page 1 
Patrick Belton proposes "a platform of communication and efficiency." He could not be reached for further details. 
The only other on-campus senatorial race is in Mod Quad, as candidates from both God and North Quads ran unop­posed. The two Mod Quad can­didates are Grace freshman Timothy Bowers and Siegfried sophomore Kate McShane. 
Bowers firmly opposes the idea of using a platform consisting of promises he may not be able to keep because "it frustrates the student body." He instead hopes to support whatever proposals that his quad favors in regular vo~es on various issues, to be held m the individual dorms. "I have no personal stake in this," Bowers said· "I would be speaking for a larg~r population" through this system. 
Kate McShane presents a more traditional group of pro­Jlosals for Mod Quad. She ad­vocates increased study space for the quad, possibly in North Dining Hall; improved com­munication between the Stu­dent Senate, Campus Life Council, and the students them­selves; and two new events, a Mod Quad Beautification Day and a Fall Volleyball Fest. 
Cavanaugh freshman 
Catherine McCarren, who ran 
unopposed, is the new North 
Quad senator. She plans to 
"keep North Quad students 
aware of the Student Senate 
and bring their concerns to 
Student Senate Meetings." She 
also intends to work with the 
University's gender relations 
programs. . 
Sorin junior Christian Sh.elds 
also ran unopposed for his 
quad's Senate seat. He stated 
students of (God Quad) to the teams. 
continued from page1 continued from page 3 

best of my ability." Greff and Schindler also hope to procure new uniforms for the McGarry presumes that cor­
as a Eucharistic minister at porations such as Xerox will

Off-campus students will have off-campus football team and Saturday's mass. "I want my continue to downsize their ex­
the opportunity to vote for their possibly the soccer team as 
parents to see what happens 
penditures and reconstruct

1995-6 co-presidents on Mon­well. 
here and to feel that I am·

day. Andy Greff and Matt Both parties also have ideas their corporate platforms as
doing something important

Schindler are running against for different off-campus events. the millennium approaches.
with my life." 

Kevin Duerr and Keith East-Duerr and Eastland hope to run For Xerox, she believes that
She would like for her par­

land. . a trip to Chicago for off-campus the company's growth will 
ents to leave Sophomore

Both parties advocate an in­students, as well as a dance for include competing in open for­
Parents Weekend "with a good eign markets such as China.

creased focus on the off-cam­off-campus students and feeling about Saint Mary's, and 
pus newsletter, which was in­'Duerrpalooza,' a concert fea­As a result. McGarry said that 
to leave [her] with some

frequent and not particularly turing local bands and possibly Xerox looks to hire employees
money."

a bigger name band, whose who are positive about the
well-distributed last year. Duerr and Eastland are profits would be used to benefit world, broad thinkers, and
Sophomores agree on the multi-functional individuals. 

particularly interested in the local charities. 
significance of the weekend "We are always looking foridea of improving the newslet­which has been an event at the

ter, using it to keep off-campus Greff and Schindler propose people who are confiden_t an~
College for over 10 years. 

students informed of such an off-campus barbecue, as not afraid to try new thmgs,
To Jessica Zigmund of Holy 

things as appearances by local well as an 'open house' in McGarry said. 
Cross Hall, this weekend will

bands, scheduling of placement which off-campus students McGarry said true success
be unusual time spent with her 

tests, and other important leave their apartments open for came when she felt that her 
parents.

deadlines. a day near the end of the school employment with Xerox added year. This would give students value to both her corporate
"I've been looking so for­and personal life. McGarryBoth parties also propose planning to move off-campus ~o ward to it. As one of four chil­

examine and purchase furm­was able to advance in careerbetter organization of off-cam­dren, it will be time just for the 
because she had fun with a

pus participation in interhall ture and other items for their 
three of us to spend time

athletics. Duerr and Eastland new apartments. career she valued. 
together. I want my parents to
Voting will take place on "Its been nice having theadvocate a bulletin board to really see what campus is like,

help create off-campus teams Monday in South and Mod quad freedom of choice in my posi­
what my friends and profes­tion with Xerox. You learn the 

that can consist of more than dormitories. Off-campus stu­sors are like, and to see why most about yourself when youjust groups of friends•. whi~e dents can vote in LaFortune Saint Mary's is a good place for find a job you like," McGarryGreff and Schindler believe m Student Center. 
me to be," Zigmond said. 

better organization as well as said. 
..... 

Because stuff happens. 
""'"Hey this is corporate America. We have to keep it clean. 


It"s everywhere® )IOU -vvant to be. 

Fri. 2/24 & Sat. 2/25 Carroll Auditorium $2 
© Visa US.A. Inc. 199S

7 p.m. & 9:30 p.m. 

Friday, February 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Homophobia education suggested 

Associate Professor of Medieval Studies Mark Jordan discusses the Church's inconsistency in dealing with homosexuality. 
By SEAN O'CONNOR 
News Writer 
The Gender Studies Program at Notre Dame concurs with numerous other campus groups in supporting recognition of GLND/SMC. 
With this affirmation, mod­erator Kathleen Biddick began what she called an unprece­dented event in campus history, an open forum entitled "Homophobia and Education." 
The discussion, held yester­day afternoon in DeBartolo, featured a panel of four speak­ers; Carlos Jerez-Farran, Mary Rose D'Angelo, Mark Jordan, and Ava Preacher Collins. Each presented a position paper on a different aspect of homophobia. 
Jerez-Farran, a professor of Spanish with the University, began the forum with "Homophobia Affects Every­one," an examination of the wide reaching repercussions of Homophobia. 
According to Jerez-Farran, 
"irrational fear and prejudice against homosexuals... locks people into rigid gender roles which inhibit creativity and ex­pression." Its effects are devas­tating to families. Homophobic irrationality isolates gay chil­dren from their parents and leads to the erroneous notion that "homosexuality represents a threat to the traditional nu­clear family." 
Additionally, homophobia leads to "fragile and insincere marriages" among gay individ­uals who turn to marriage as an escape from society's revul­sion of homosexuals. 
The climate of hostility pre­vents intellectuals from openly expressing their thoughts on homosexuality. Jerrez-Farran calls the failure of the educa­tional system to deal with sexu­ality a "conspiracy ... the subject is being ignored deliberately." This causes a separation in people's minds between homo­sexuals and other human be­ings, fostering "bias, ridicule, 


The Observer needs Assistant Production Managers and 
By the way, 


Design Editors. 

We really don't have your hat! 

Submit application by 
Love, 


Monday the 27th at 
Kathy-Kasey, Skippy, Tyler, Greve, Nikki, Ren, The Rosses, Celebrity Taboo, Frank, 

NOON. 
and hatred which is incompati­ble with our humanistic ideals and the role a university has to play." 
Mary Rose D'Angelo, a theol­ogy professor, followed Jerrez­Farran with "Homophobia, Sex­ism, and the Bible." D'Angelo proposes that homophobia is inextricably tied to sexism. 
"Homophobia is a product of patriarchy...homosexuality is wrong or unnatural because it interferes with, it violates, the superior status of men." Ac­cording to this model, homo­phobia is a social construct de­signed to support men's supe­riority, "one pillar in a complex gender hierarchy." 
In this way, she claims it may be fueled by political aims as well as the irrational fears to which it is normally attributed. "No woman can afford to let homophobia go unchallenged," said D'Angelo. 
Traditional. biblically-sup­ported condemnations of ho­mosexuality are faulty, claims D'Angelo. The other prohibi­tions laid down in the Book of Leviticus, such as bans on eat­ing certain animals, wearing certain fabrics, etc. no longer apply to Christian moral codes, D'Angelo pointed out, so why should the ban on homosexual­ity apply? In Leviticus, homo­sexual acts are banned not be­cause of an inherent evil but because they violate politeness laws and disrupt the sexist gen­der hierarchy. 
Mark Jordan. Medieval Phi­losophy, tailed D'Angelo with "Homophobia and the Medieval Church," a dissection of the Church's position on homosex­uality. Jordan pointed to glar­
see PHOBIA I page 6 

NEWLY REMODELED ADVANTAGES WE OFFER · NEW CARPETS · FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES · NEW TILE FLOORS · WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY · COMPLETE REPAINTING OF APARTMENTEVERY UNIT · DISHWASHER AND MUCH MORE ! · CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING · ADT SECURITY SYSTEMS · 24-HOURMAINTENANCE UNITS STILL AVAILABLE  

--------~­---~-~----------------------------------~---------.. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 24, 1995 
Culture." She believes "popu­are open about it. Others are a lar culture...is homophobic by little worried." 
Phobia Taxes Xerox
nature ... homosexuals are A cause for concern among represented in stereotyped, the clients is the fact that the
continued from page 5 continued from page 1 continued from page 3
stigmatized ways." Because students have every bit of in­heterosexuality is considered formation about them at the
ing inconsistencies between Hall who uses the service annu­my foot in the door ... ! knew I
normal, homosexuality is fingertips.
Church teachings in general ally. could be successful." 
immediately viewed in the con­"We know all about them,"
and specific pronouncements Achille cites the training McGarry spoke also of the dif­
text of an abnormal deviation. Achille said. "We have their
on homosexuals. Jordan re­classes as being most helpful. ferences between men and
social security numbers, their

stated D'Angelo's assertation "The class is very thorough. women, and how important it is
Owing to the lack of powerful W-2 forms, their bank state­
that the Church has twisted the We go through every line of ev­to recognize these differences
positions held by gays in the ments."
original meanings of biblical ery form," she said. "If we and capitalize on them. She fo­
media, a gay perspective is of­."Some people come in, sit
passages to apply them to ho­hadn't done that, I don't think I cused on the dissimilarities 
ten restrained from entering down, hand the forms to us,
mosexuality. would have felt comfortable between men and women con­
popular culture. and let us go to work," he con­
Furthermore, Jordan points working with these people." cerning their focus on a single
tinued. "Others are curious

to the Church's brutal dealings Learning the trade also task, and how they communi­
However, Collins applauds about the process, and we'll let
with homosexuals as comes on the job. Besides cate and listen. 
the sitcom "Northern them look up a couple of num­
contradicting the principles of gaining experiencing in filing
Exposure," with an ongoing bers off the tables themselves." 
the theological systems out­returns, volunteers also get a For example, a woman might
gay story line, as well as a Some of Anderson's clients
lined by theologians such as chance to improve their inter­wait to interject a comment in 
recent episode of "Seinfeld," also take an active role in the
Thomas Aquinas. personal skills, a delicate talent the middle of a conversation,
which portrayed the dynamic filing of their returns. 
when dealing with the private whereas a man might continue

between being gay and being "Some people are very willing 
The most obvious contradic­matter of personal finances. speaking until he is interrupt­
seen as gay. These are exam­to offer information," she said.
tion Jordan sees is this rather "You learn how to ask the ed. "Neither is better nor
ples of shows which help audi­"One lady was interested in
comical paradox: the Church questions you need to ask and worse, they're both communi­
ences think productively with learning how much of a refund
views homosexuals as rare and what questions not to ask," cating. They're just different,"
regard to the prevalence of she could expect." 
horrible freaks of nature, yet Achille said. "For example, claimed McGarry. 
homophobia in popular culture. On average, students spend
theologians who make this based on [the clients'] level of between 30-40 minutes on each
claim would also have one be­income, you know that they McGarry stressed the impor­
Following the four presenta­return. However, some of the 
lieve that homosexuality is so probably didn't make any char­tance of women's strong self­
tions, a period of questions people with more complicated
widespread that it threatens itable contributions." perception and the support of
from the audience raised some finances require more time.
the very integrity of the The fact that many people are other women.
interesting points. Jordan was "The return of someone who
Church. cooperative and interested in McGarry concluded her lec­
very forceful in his opposition runs his own business takes
"Many of the most violent op­how the students prepare the ture with some age-old advice 
to the administration's han­longer to complete than a high
ponents to homosexuality are returns makes the job enjoy­gleaned from the two most im­
dling of the GLND/SMC debate. school kid's return who works
themselves closeted homosexu­able for the students as well, portant women in her life, her
"I am convinced that the argu­at McDonald's during the sum­
als," Jordan claimed. "Fag according to Anderson. mother and grandmother. 
ments put forth by the adminis­mer," Jennings said. 
hashing is a way of shoring "The people are pretty nice," 
tration have nothing to do with For people with extremely in­
up... models of masculinity," she said. "We try to explain From the Golden Rule to
theology...I would be happy to tricate finances, certified public 
implying that those who under­things to people who don't un­always sending thank-you notes
debate anyone on the theologi­accounts are on duty at five of
take such behavior have need derstand in a way that makes to taking a job for its risks,
cal condemnation of the 11 locations, including the
to affirm their own masculinity. sense and doesn't seem so for­McGarry stressed the impor­
homosexuality. It is bad theol­St. Joseph County Public Li­
eign." tance of having good skills and

ogy." brary and the Northeast Neigh­
Education must override ho­The willingness to explain pa­behaviors. These include lis­
Collins reminded that "we borhood Center. 
mophobia, in Jordan's view. tiently the smallest details often tening, communication, being
don't need the university's per­As the tax season swings into
The current educational system puts the clients at ease, which multi-lingual, embracing tech­
mission to end homophobia." high gear, Achille, Anderson
"suggests, approves of, even can make the time that stu­nology and tooting your own
Moderator Biddick, a member and Jennings remain enthusi­
fosters homophobia." This dents and clients spend to­horn.
of the Gender Studies Program, astic about their "urban plunge
must be replaced with under­gether more relaxing. "You must be flexible, multi­
which has been active in sup­for accounting majors," as
standing and honesty. "Dealing with people's bank national and have a good atti­
porting GLND/SMC, concluded Achille termed it. 
The final panelist was Ava accounts is a sensitive issue. tude to make a difference.
that the best course of action "It's an exciting chance to
Preacher Collins, Assistant You've got to learn how each Think of yourself as an inde­
might be to "isolate the admin­learn something in school and
Dean, College of Arts and Let­person will react," said J .J. pendent contractor... and of
istration and let them continue then actually use it," Anderson
ters, who presented Jennings, student coordinator what makes you valuable and
in their phantasmic." said.
"Homophobia and Popular of the project. "Some people indispensable." 






r --iuncnpeciai -, r -Nilli flifle"1iffi -, r -7ateki'iht !;ecial' -, r --diie 17"LMge--,
HOURS: 

I 1-10" Small II 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I I a~ne Topping I
695

Monday-llmday 11 :00 am. -1:00 am. 
I 2Topping Pizza II Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I I I 
I with 1can of Coke II $ 50 I I 1Topping Pizza I I ~ 14" L~rge I
Fmay &SabJday 11 :00 am. -3:00 am. 
Stnlay rbxl-1:00 am. 
: $59 ~ :: 9 .• : : $59.~ : : $11~ :
_______ ......_______ ... _______... _______...
L 
Miilillni/TtJppirgs91ic<ICh.IIDI<IiidwilhiJifDIIIer-. II AllditiJtJI/T~$1.25<1Ch.lllltVIIitlwilhiJifDihlrCIIIfiiJII. I LAlilitiooJITDPtJintjs91icuclr.ltiJtmiwilhiJifDIIIerCDifl«<. I L-T~91ic<ICI1.11111VIIitlwilhiJifllllw-I 


Friday, February 24, 1995 
University Director, Hyder, receives ORAU appointment 
~pcci:.l to the Observer aerospace engineering and an 
Anthony K. llyder, associate vicfl president of the Graduate School at the 
I lniversity of Notre Dame, was appoint­Pd to the Oak H i d g e Associated Universities ( 0 H AU) 


Board of Hyder llirer.tors FPb. 9 at tho 1!)(,th board meeting at the University of Nevada, Las \'pgas. The 21-member board manages the property and niTairs of OHAU for its Council of Sponsoring Institutions. 
llyder has been an OHAU councilor since 1993 and sl'rved on the OHAU Science and Technology Policy Commit­tl'n in 1994. 
Prior to joining the University of Notre Dame in 1991, llyder hnld positions with Auburn University, the Office of the Sncrntary of Defense, and the :\ir Force Office of Scientific Besnarch. 
llyder earned a Ph.D. in 
M.S. in space physics from the Air Force Institute of Technol­ogy and received his bachelor's in physics from the University of Notre Dame. 
Hyder is a member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Sigma Xi. He is also affiliated with the U.S. Air Force Scientific Advisory Board and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers. 
Established in 1946, Oak Ridge Associated Universities (ORAU) is a private, not-for­profit corporation and a con­sortium of 88 doctoral-granting colleges and universities. 
ORAU is an acknowledged leader serving government, academia, and the private sec­tor by examining and address­ing opportunilies and issues important to science and tech­nology and delivering results that are critical to the nation's well-being and economic secu­rity. 
For instance, ORAU helps faculty and students gain 

Thank God it's over ... 
Sophomore Ryan McMahon takes a much-anticipated break after a test yesterday afternoon. 
access to federal research facil­issues of national importance. capabilities in energy, educa­ities and, in addition, organizes ORAU manages and operates tion, health, and the environ­alliances in research, policy, the Oak Ridge Institute for Sci­ment through basic research, and international areas where ence and Education (ORISE) for applied research and analysis, the collective strengths of its the U.S. Department of Energy. and technical assistance and members can be focused on ORISE develops and provides assessment. 





BB KING
.................................................... 
J·>¢itJ!iN·tfil 
Morris Civic Auditorium Wednesday March 22 
Tickets at the usual out1et1 or 
CHARGE-BY-PHONE: 219-235-9190 
STIJDENT UNION BOARD 
~~~dtmte ~O~+ February 24 ~~~ ~~~<Jo/ 9:00 -1:00 pm <t;:~ ~ 
~ $1 admission ~~ ~+~ LaFortune Ballroom ~ 
"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
e Fresh Ingredients e Lunch Specials starting at $3.50 
include: egg roll, soup and tea e Private Dining Booths! e Dinners starting at $5 e Custom cooking with no MSG 
e Vegetarian Menu e 15 Years of Service Award For Reservations & Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 
For Dine-In Delivery Call: 
272-2328 





rage 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 24, 1995 


Congress approves more cuts 'Contract with America' 
focuses on public support
ByALANFRAM 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
House subcommittees ap­proved $10.5 billion more in ruts in housing, environmental and other programs Thursday rlespite Democratic accusations that Republicans were demol­ishing vital social initiatives with "vicious" reductions. 
A day after five House panels approved $7 billion worth of C'Uts in summer programs for youngsters, food aid to poor women and children and other programs, four more subcom­mittees found new targets. That brought to $17.5 billion the amount the House would chop from the budget, which would be one of the biggest slashes ever in funding already enacted into law. 
The focus of the day's labors was a subcommittee that arlopted a massive $9.4 billion reduction. Included were $7.3 
billion in reductions for public housing modernization, rent assistance for the poor and other housing programs ­equivalent to one-quarter of the Department of Housing and Ur­ban Development's 1995 bud­get. Other cuts hit clean-water projects, President Clinton's national service program, vet­erans' hospitals and medical equipment. 
Another panel approved $272 million in cuts to law enforce­ment, commerce and diplo­matic programs -including a $30 million cut in high technol­ogy grants, an initiative of Vice President AI Gore. The panel also rejected the Clinton admin­istration's request for $672 mil­lion to pay for international peacekeeping activities. 
Still another subcommittee voted to erase $159 million in proposed spending, mostly by killing 13 proposed new federal office buildings and court­houses across the country. And a fourth panel sliced $700 mil­lion in transportation pro­grams, including money for highways and mass transit. 
"I think it's just uncon­scionable, it's reprehensible," Rep. Louis Stokes, D-Ohio, said of the housing reductions. 
"The fact is the money isn't getting there," responded Chairman Bob Livingston, R­La., whose House Appropria­tions Committee is searching for the cuts. "We have greater poverty than before the War on Poverty began" in the 1960s. 
Having promised deep reduc­tions in their "Contract With America" campaign manifesto, Republicans are intent on showing voters that they mean business -and in effect daring Clinton to oppose them. 
With the GOP swinging its budget scythe at programs that have served Democrats' low-in­come constituents for years, the minority party's leaders tried to paint Republicans as heartless. 

for that healthy summertime glow. .. experience 




Tanning
with state-ofthe-artfacilities 

Spring Break Special 1 wk. Free Tanning with cut and shampoo 
WANTED BY THE OBSERVER NEWS DEPT: 
Motivated, eager folks for the following positions 
AssociATE NEws EDITOR ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR NEWS COPY EDITOR 
Interested? Then The Observer wants you! Please submit a resume and statement of intent to Dave Tyler by Thursday, March 2 at 8 p.m. Questions? Call Dave at 1-5323 or 4-1200. 


Do you have a dance on Friday, Feb 24? 
7ak~dateua~ ·~-~~~~(./ 
TROOP NOTRE DAME 
puientj. 
The 2nd Annual Campus Wide Talent Show 
~, ~:2.4, 1995 
7:30 pH£ 
<W~ton dfa/1 
Stadenh, bay yoar tickets at the dining halls for $3 before Friday!I or $S General Admission at the door 
PROFITS GO TO THE BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF ST. JOSEPH'S COUNTY 
aJB· S'ANFOJIQ 
Contestants: Tim Fusco MC's: 
Matt J(arr 
Mike JohnsonJim Schmiedeler 
Mike Donnino
Pat Shane Tom Eckert 
Saturday, February 25, 1995 Stepan Center 
8:00PM Tickets: 53.00 (Available through Stanford Hall and at the door) 

All proceeds to benefit Logan Center 
By JILL LAWRENCE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
One of the big arguments House Republicans make for their "Contract With America," and for its eventual acceptance by a balky Senate and presi­dent, is that polls show Ameri­cans want it. 
Yet polls also suggest people are not always well informed about public policy, and aren't sure what they want from their government. 
President Clinton has often been criticized for letting polls weigh too heavily in his policy decisions. His ill-fated health care reform plan clearly demonstrated the hazards of misreading what people tell pollsters. 
The new Republican majority in the House is, if anything, even more driven by polls than the administration. Only issues supported by more than 60 percent of the public made it into the "Contract With Amer­ica," the GOP campaign mani­festo turned legislative agenda. 
The numbers give Republi­cans considerable ammunition. 
For instance, House Speaker Newt Gingrich assailed Clinton this week for opposing a consti­tutional amendment to balance the budget. "This is astonishing when you recognize that over 80 percent of the country wants a balanced budget amendment," the speaker said. 
House Republicans also are counting on public opinion to get their version of welfare re­form on the books. But consen­sus on the need for reform may shatter amid controversies over orphanages, immigrants and work requirements. 
-

Friday, February 24, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 9 

Secretary of State Warren Christopher hospitalized 
By TERENCE HUNT 
A mx:iated Press 
OTTAWA 

Secretary of State Warren Christopher was hospitalized Thursday with a previously un­dntected bleeding ulcer but doctors said he was in no dan­gnr and probably would be mleased Friday. 
"This was not a major health 1went," one physician said. They said the bleeding was stopped through medication. 
Christophnr, 69, accompany­ing President Clinton on a state visit to Canada, felt ill after talks with his Canadian coun­terpart, Foreign Affairs Minister Andre Ouellet, and called his personal physician in Los Angeles. 
On the physician's advice, Christopher had his security staff take him to Ottawa Civic Hospital shortly after 6 p.m. 
Doctors at the hospital said they stopped the bleeding with medication. They said he prob­ably incurred the ulcer from an anti-inflammatory drug he was taking for arthritis. 
"The secretary is stable, he's 
Hours
THE 
M-F 10-8 
Sat 10-6 
Sun 12-4 


S1YLE 

CO. INC. 
"Alternative Clothing for Today's Woman" 
THE STYLE CO./ INC. Grand Opening, Feb ·27, 1995! 
A unique shopping experience without the Grape Rd. hassle. 
• 
Over 40 styles of Hats 

• 
Open evenings and Sundays 

• 
Alterations and layaway available 


1912 S. 11th, Niles 687-9123 
"In the newly remodeled Belle Plaza" 



J.P. & Dennis 
NEW Focus 

Want You 
to apply for the following positions in Student Government 
....... . . . . 
~ 
~ 

COMMUNTTYACTION 
All applications are available in the Student Government Office, 2nd floor LaFortune, and are due by 5:00 March 2. 

xecutlve Coordinator Student Life Department 
Campus Social Commissioner 
Commissioner for Campus Improvements 
Commissioner for Social Concerns 
Commissioner for Women's Concerns 


Commissioner for Minority Concerns 


Freshman perform one-acts 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 
The casts of the Freshman Four, four plays performed and directly solely by members of the class of 1998, are enthusi­astically looking forward to presenting their work to the University community. 
Their performances will take place this Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Hesburgh Li­brary Auditorium. The plays are "Bums," "Nobody Sleeps," "No Why," and "Ticket to The City." 
Tom Rose, the student direc­tor of "Nobody Sleeps," ex­pressed satisfaction with the plays, and was confident that his cast would perform exceed­ingly well. 
He stated that the directors -themselves all freshmen as well -were given wide lati­tude by faculty advisor Ann Marie Wolf in who to chose for the casts, the venue sit, and acquiring props. "Basically we ran it." 
Over eighty people auditioned for the plays in mid-January, which Rose attributed to wide interest and clever planning. "The (Freshman) Dean's Newsletter had an announce­ment, and everyone read the newsletter while waiting to reg­ister, so everyone knew about it... 
No experience was required of the actors who auditioned, and the directors did not know of any actors intending to major in Communication and Theater. The talent shown in the auditions, though, was immense, according to Andrea Oess, director of "No Why" by John Whiting. 
Both actors and directors noted the difficulties of being of the same class. Leilani Pascale of "Nobody Sleeps" stated, "It was hard for the director because we are his peers, and it was hard for me since I had never worked with a student director before, let alone one of my peers." Rose said that "communicating (his) vision into the something the cast could understand" was made harder by working with other freshman. 
Both, however, stated that the talents of both actors and directors made the final result better. "They brought ideas I never thought of to their roles," he said, a point which "Ticket to The City" director Nikki Valenti echoed. Pascale was proud "knowing it was some­thing that a bunch of freshman did by themselves." 
Through the hectic work in­herent in only a month of plan­ning and rehearsals, Wolf remarked on the commitment of the actors, who took their tasks seriously while keeping it fun. 
They now want to share that fun with everyone else. Ad­mission is $2 at the door. 

1995 Transfer Orientation Chairperson 

Pick up applications in Student Government office Second Floor LaFortune 
Application Deadline: March 1st, 4:00pm 


xecutlve 
Coordinator IntellectualLife Department 
Academic Commissioner 
Commissioner for Campus mnwnicatio 
ommissmner 
for Board of Trustees 
Reports 
Bookfair Commissioner 
Guide Commissioner 



Student Body Secretary 

xecutlve Coordinator 
xecutlve 
xecutlve 
Coordinator for Public 
Coordinator 
Special
for theJudicial 
ProjectsRelations 
Board 
Elections
Publicity 
Committee
Director 
Chair 


Legal Advisor 
•
'-------~· 


••• for a few
•
••··good men and 
•··women to help us
•
• • • make Student
•
• • • Government become ••• ·rhe Voice of N.D... 
•
••• BE A PART OF THE ACTION
• 









VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Vit'WJ>oint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayrer Spans Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan IPhoto Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom LilligISaint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­rion of either insdrurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of <he majority of <he Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Edi<or, Viewpoint Editor. Accent Editor, Pho<o Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present che views of che authors, and not necessarily chose uf The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
1 
r,iitor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 '>ports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839INews/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 l?ay Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.eduI, C.cncral Informatton 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
• lETTERS ro THE Eom.lR 
HPC decision too liberal for some Knights 
Oear Editor: obviously are not worthy of the honor of promoting GLND/SMC's destructive liberal 
We were disgusted Wednesday to read representing Keenan Hall. It is sad when agenda, I believe the vast majority of the a hout the unanimous vote by the Hall four or five people are allowed to control stud.ent body agrees with us that neither Presidents' Council renouncing the and speak for this entire group. homosexuality nor its promotion belongs \dministration, calling for the recognition Secondly, the Administration's job is to on this campus. of GLND/SMC, and calling gays and les­carry on the Catholic tradition in providing Notre Dame is one of the last bastions of bians "an integral part of the Notre Dame higher education here at Notre Dame. conservative collegiate America. The rest Community." They are not here to promote every liberal of the nation's universities long ago gave 
First, we were surprised to read it was a whim and fad that comes along. We'll into the plague known as "political correct­IInanimous vote. This shows that the Hall leave that to Barbra Streisand. Their deci­ness," is it so much to ask that at least one Presidents' Council is just another of the sion to ban GLND/SMC from meeting on­university should keep its integrity and not ~~ntless, left-wing groups who do not repre­campus is correct in carrying out the join the bandwagon. <;r.nt the majority of the Notre Dame teachings of the Catholic Church, which ~ludents. We cannot believe that there is does not believe homosexuality is a legiti­not one courageous individual on the Hall mate lifestyle choice. COLIN RITTGERS President's Council with the nerve to stand Finally the last two weeks have seemingly Sophomore IIP to the liberal establishment and brought out an epidemic of liberalism at JOHN BODE riPnounce GLND/SMC. We were disappoint­Notre Dame. While the Observer and all Junior NI in our Keenan Hall co-presidents who the campus "representative" groups are Keenan Hall 
Morrissey VP encourages truth, personal conviction 
Oear Editor: know personally that I oppose 
I write this letter with regard its passage and need to rectify 1o the unanimous passage of to myself, the residents of the resolution presented to the Morrissey, and the University at 11 all President' Council calling large for my need to do this, l'or the organization known as regardless of the opinion of oth­c; LND/SMC to be represented as ers. an "integral" part of the As one who cares deeply for llniversity. the struggle of homosexual stu­
I feel compelled due to my dents here at Notre Dame, nwn beliefs and as a represen­along with the overwhelming tative of Morris~ey to raise majority of students here, I objection to the resolution I think it is imperative that the rassed in haste without fully current position of the r·nnsidering the content and University and its policies both Catholic and non-Catholics this issue or any other. I 
alike, to affirm the moral worth implore you to never compro­nature of its further implica-toward the recognition of 
1inns. At the meeting, held on homosexual groups be upheld. of homosexuals at the individ­mise your beliefs for the sake of ual level, respecting them with­some "group consensus." True
Tuesday, February 21 at Knott These equals among us deserve 
llall, I complied with a "unani­and command our utmost of out hate or will to dismantle, as solutions are never easy, and mous consent" vote without compassion, love, and concern. certain active "support groups" can only be reached when all questioning the rationality of This is not done in the some­would do with the University's involved are true to themselves 
"uch an action by the Council or what forced passage of a reso­own founding, living faith tradi­and their convictions. Thanks. myself. lution, pigeon-holing the issued tion. Only then can a relevant, I feel strongly that the resolu-into a specific group to avoid a worthy, justifiable discourse on TODD REINHART 1ion should not have been necessary moral confrontation. the matter truly occur. Vice President l•assed, or at the very least, Rather, it required all of us, Regardless of how you feel on Morrissey Manor 



Friday, February 24, 1995 
Lyons Hall residents support gays 
Dear Editor: 
In light of the recent events that have been happening on campus, we, the women of Lyons Hall, feel we must take a stand. As a dorm that is a safe haven we cannot abide by the administration's decision to ban GLND/SMC from meeting on campus. There have been many responses to the action, opinions from both sides. all of which should be respected. But perhaps we should take our cue from the Church itself. 
'As a dorm that is a 
safe haven we can­not abide by the adminis­tration's decision to ban GLND/SMC from meet­ing on campus.' 
The Catechism of the Catholic Church states that "They [homosexuals] must be ac­cepted with respect, compas­sion, and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided (#2358)." The administration's actions and attitudes towards GLND/SMC are examples of "unjust discrimination." And they are showing no signs of the acceptance that the Church, and Jesus himself, call on us to extend. Notre Dame claims to be a family; let's love, respect and accept everyone as families should. 
115 WOMEN OF LYONS HALL 





VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 24, 1995 page 11 
• ,.fnERS T~ THE EDITOR 
Pro-Choice not pro-abortion 
Dear Editor: 
I was shocked as I read the letter from Maureen Kramlick. After picking my jaw up from the floor I ldt the need to respond. Kramlick claimed that to identify oneself as a pro-choice advocate is to say one is pro-abortion. In my opinion this is a complete misunderstanding of the term. By definition, "pro" means "for" or "in favor of." According to Random I louse Webster's College Dictionary, choice is "the 1·ight. power, or opportunity to choose; option." 
When I identify myself as pro-choice it means that I am in favor of allowing each woman the cons.ti­rutional right to decide for herself what she considers lo he morally consistent with her beliefs. I personally do not think I could ever terminate a pregnancy. Yet, what right do I have to tell every other woman that she cannot hold a different opinion? Why is my opin­ion superior? If I don't feel it is ethical to keep a weapon in my home, does that mean I should force others to share that viewpoint? No! I should simply live my life abiding by my personal standards. 
There are many extenuating circumstances to any pregnancy. The choice to end a pregnancy is just as difficult and private as the choice to begin pregnancy. To insist that there shall be no safe, accessible way for a sick mother, a victim of rape or incest, or a scared immature child to choose to end a pregnancy is to take away our country's citizen's most funda­mental freedom, the freedom to think for oneself. 
KERRY MULVANEY 
Freshman 
Breen-Phillips Hall 

Wo01en must decide their own fate 
Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to Maureen Kramlieh's letter to The Observer which was titled, "Pro­choke advocates really pro-abor­tion." 
I consider myself to be a pro­choice advocate. This does not mean that I am pro-abortion. I hPlieve that one can be pro-choice and pro-life at the same time, and that the two positions are hardly mutually exdusive. 
Pro-choice merely means that I am in favor of keeping abortion safe and legal for those who l'lwose to end their pregnancies. I am also pro-life, that is, pro­human life, in that I feel women whose lives arf) endangered by their pregnancies should be aII owed to legally terminate them. 
• .··,.ooM RocK 
These women should be able to end their pregnancies in a hospital with qualified staff, rather than risk their lives at a back door butcher's in the guise of a doctor. 
'women need to have 
control over their own lives and their own bodies.' 
I believe that no woman is ca­pable of deciding to end the life of her child without going through intense pain. I also believe that abortion should not be used as a method of birth control, and that its practice should be regulated and restricted to protect unborn life. However, because there are always exceptions to the rule and there will always be instances of extenuating circumstances, abor­tion must be kept safe and legal. 
Women need to have control over their own lives and their own bodies. Although I would never personally choose to have an abor­tion, it is not my duty to take that same right of choice away from others. It is not my place to con­demn another for her decision until I have walked a mile in her shoes. 
I am not pro-abortion, but I am pro-choice. And I am pro-choice, yet I remain pro-human life. 
RENE RIMELSPACH Freshman Breen-Phillips Hall 

The 1970 underground document, "Sexism at Notre Dame," was a study in self-criticism by its male authors. In its very introduction, it took swipes at men on both sides of the era's cultural divide. 
Mainstream Domers, those aiming for a life of finan­cia) security and business success, were accused of taking two women as complements: "His wife, warm, passive, responsive and dependent," and "his wench, beautiful, silent, sexy and lower class, bought for a night or kept for a fee, out of sight." As undergradu­ates, the document charged, these are the Saint Mary's girlfriend and the South Bend "townie." 
But the hipster who might have joined in the sneers directed at his more traditional brothers also took a 
broadside, as. "Sexism at Notre ================ male students of exploitive behav-
Dame" pegged him as someone who "grows his hair long to express his identity,' 'does a lot Pete of heavy dope' instead of being a guzzling champ, and substi­tutes such meaningful phrases Peterson 
as 'chick' for 'broad' and 'c--'; in the commune, she is 'liberat­ed' from her 'sex hangups' but not from the housework and, if there are children, from their care." 
Nor did the politically correct radical miss the knife, as he was nailed for "knowing quotes from Lenin, Mao, Che, Cohn-Bendit and Marcuse, and making dra­matic 'revolutionary' speeches, while the 'liberated' woman does the typing, printing and coffee-making, and is always ready for bed after a hard day of 'revo­lutionary' action." 
If the men took the brunt of the criticism in "Sexism at Notre Dame," it is hardly surprising. At that time, as now, women were to be empowered and were not perceived as having power already, so that the notion of complicity was never raised. But the document is less accusatory than it is descriptive, and, considering the sad level to which male-female relations had descended at that time, this one-sided approach was not entirely unwarranted. 
"They are out for mere 'ass', without a thought of the women in any other sense than as sexual objects, let alone as equal. This is what they have been taught all their lives: that women, especially lower-class women, are inferior and passive before men. It is in the language they use: to lay, f--. ball, screw her-the emphasis is always on the male role as that of the actor in sex. The female is a mindless receptacle ... " 
The CPA's Marxist view was perfectly adapted to the discussion of townies versus Saint Mary's students. "A working-class girl gets parental approval and pres­tige among her peers for dating an ND man; a mar­riage to a 'rah" would be an alternative to low-paid, 
Develop spirituality by 'Keeping the Faith' 
Dear Editor: 
With the season of Lent approaching, we would like to take this chance to invite all of the Notre Dame fam­ily to take part in the upcoming "Keeping the Faith" series offered through Campus Ministry. As students helping to coordinate this program, we see this as a unique opportunity for all who participate to strength­en their faith and relationship with God. The three­part series focuses on different aspects of prayer with the overriding goal of developing a deeper personal 
.spirituality at Notre Dame. 
Eacb segment includes the reflections of featured speakers, the possibility for group interaction, and the exploration of new forms of enriching prayer that can be incorporated into daily life. The first night is devot· ed to the discussion and experience of prayer. The next session focuses on incorporating the scriptures into our prayer life. The final gathering promises to be especially pertinent to Notre Dame students who hope to make service not just a part of life. but a way of life. This session explores how prayer and service go hand in hand. 
We are excited about this upcoming series and encourage all to join us in this unique opportunity to pray and grow in faith as members of the Notre Dame 
family. 
SCOTT MORGAN 
Flanner Hall JULIANNE GADE Farley Hall JENNIFER ROE Siegfried Hall TOO KELLER 
Flanner Hall · 
KATE FAGAN Fischer Graduate Residence KATHLEEN LYNCH Breen-Phillips Hall JEANNINE SOLANTO Lyons Hall 
AMY DOBBELAERE Breen-Phillips Hall HANSPATUWO 
Morrissey Hall 
low-status factory or service work, or to house-bound drudgery and acceptance of abuse as a wife to most of the non-Notre Dame men she meets. Male suprema­cist values teach women to trade sexual favors for material security and social status; the 'rah' who is conscious of this is perhaps the most effective exploiter ... 
"This is not to say that Saint Mary's women are not exploited-only that they have a distinct advantage of 'better class' and 'morals'. The major damage to them will be done later by their Notre Dame bus­bands, in cut-off or hampered outside careers, and isolation in housework and childbearing and rearing." 
But the document did not stop at accusing individual 
ior. The chapter noted that campus 
organizations used sexual come-ons 
to attract support from students. 
including a rafl1e in 1968-69 for a 
date with a Playboy centerfold. 
"The pitch, used to sell many tick­
ets, was how a similar contest at an 
eastern university resulted in the 
winner (always a good friend of the 
ND ticket salesman) being proposi­tioned by the Playmate in her motel room and eventu­ally getting her. The tale appealed to many enough to make the sales campaign a success." 
"Sexism at Notre Dame" was read by a small audi­ence, but the issues it raised were visible to more. When organizers of a "Grand Prix" weekend tried to name a "Miss Notre Dame," the Saint Mary's Coffeehouse responded by naming a "Mr. Saint Mary's." On a more serious note, a plan to bring Playboy Bunnies to the Senior Bar brought threats of disruption, while the Student Senate's representative to the Student Union Commission proposed pulling SU funds from any campus group sponsoring "beauty queen" type promotions. 
"Sexism at Notre Dame" is steeped in Marxist rhetoric and the unworkable concept that students and workers would unite in the United States, as they had in France and Germany. To that extent, it is a curious and naive touchstone to its own tiny slice of that odd era. 
And yet the charges it made, and the situation it deplored, were real enough. And if we no longer phrase our objections in terms of class struggle, we also no longer slap "This Degrades Women" stickers over billboards and posters that do. 1 don't miss the rhetoric, but I sure wish somebody'd print up a few million of those stickers. 
Pete Peterson, '71. is Readership Services Manager at the Press-Republican in Plattsburgh, NY. 


;ACCENT
page 12 Friday, February 24, 1995 

• RANDOM MEANDERINGS 

Who's afraid of the big, bad 'burgh? Not mel 
T
he Hesburgh Library frightens me. The only library I went to all my life was called something like, "The Happy Fun Romping Bunny Library." It car­ried few books written by doctors other than Seuss, and most of the titles found there were prefaced by the words "Little" and "Golden." 
I went on a required tour of the library early last semester, but it only increased my Jenn~ an . fear. The tour guide told us that there were Accenr 1ummst
0 

something like 9.89 trillion books on pocket lint ALONE. He then showed us how to use the handy comput­er system: 
"Okay, now let's look up a book on So~rates. All Y,ou have t~ do is go to the key word index and type m the word kumquat, and all the books about Socrates will appear. Now, what word would you type in to find out more about Pascal?" 
"Uh, 'Pascal'?" 

"NO! The word, of course, is 'rutabaga."' . 
I went to the library once last semester when I had to wnte 
a paper about a book I didn't understand. Big mistake. Not only does the Hesburgh not carry any of t~e .literary stylings of my favorite author, Cliff, the books explammg obscure books are even more obscure than the originals. 
I found one book that seemed like it would be helpful, except that it was covered with dust, held together by rubber bands, and written in Aramaic. 
As I opened the book, it creaked and a small bat flew out. I dropped the book on the ground and a cloud of dust flew up, and I stood there on the 11th floor hiding my face with m.y rust-covered hands and cursing the Hesburgh and the totali­tarian regime of my freshman sem profe.ssor. 
I swore never again to venture to the.libr~ry. Afte~ ~II. there are other places to get reading maten.~l.. like the dmm~ ~al~; The other day I saw a guy reading an Air Force Now Hmng card. It must have been pretty good, because he read it for .a half an hour. He eventually put it down and attended to his soggy Frosted Flakes, but he soon picked it up again and stud­ied it intensely for another fifteen minutes. I guess he was try­ing to pick out the symbolism in the cryptic message. I wonder if he succeeded. But I digress ... 
It took the gentle urging/bludgeoning of my editor to get me to face my fears and explore the Hesburgh. . .. "Have you ever noticed anything funny about the library? my editor asked innocently. "NO!" I replied, shaking. "There's nothing funny about that...that THING!" 
After I had taken a sedative, I decided to give the Hesburgh another shot. I started by investigating some of the study car­ols. The graffiti on the library desks is nothing like the wr~ting scrawled on desks at my high school, which was very succmct. Many of the thoughts could have been expressed in fo':lr.letters or less. Much of the other writing was devoted to aidmg the student in memorizing equations, or extolling the student's membership in certain, urn, "clubs." 
Not at Notre Dame. Here frustrated students carve "reduc­tionism sucks" in the desks, or long feminist narratives. Some troubled soul lamented, "Nobody likes business majors." Someone wrote, "If nobody studies than they'll have to give us all A's." I don't know, I just don't think this idea will catch on at NO. I bet if the administration were to forbid NO students to study for a week, a whole lot of people would develop rash­es. It's just a theory, though. 
One student wrote, "I am an existentialist," and anot~er replied "Can you be sure?" I found a "Biggest Complamt About NO" list. Some of the notable additions to this list include "Not enough drugs" and "khaki pants." I agree with this last one. · 
It seems to me that the entire country of Khaki could be supported by Notre Dame students alone. Think of all of the khakis that would be spared suffering humiliation from the loss of their coats if NO students dressed less conservatively. But I digress... . . 
I was beginning to feel apprehensive agam,.but then .I saw it-"METALLICA" carved in blue. The Metallica graffiti took me back to those days in my high school "art" class w~en vari­ous factions would fight over whether to turn the radio on the station that played "Mandatory Metallica" every hour or the Spanish station. . 
As I worked my way up the library, I began to notice engraved plaques on every floor commemorating those !hat gave the floor as "a gift." I wonder how these people decided what "gift" to get Notre Dame. . 
"Oh no! Bob's birthday is coming up, and I have no Idea what to get him." . "Well, it's always been my view that a 5th floor of a library makes a nice gift for anyone." 
"Good idea! It's the gift that keeps on giving!" 
I think the saddest parts of the library are those little offices 
for graduate students, which are big enough to contain.' say, a WHOLE pair of Nikes. Many of the teachers must mstead cram their life's work into these things, which are always located in some dark, dusty corner of the Bavarian literature section on the 13th floor. The doors of these offices are always covered with comic strips and other feeble reminders that humans dwell within. I think what these graduate stu­dents are trying to say with the comic strips is, "No, ~·m not just some sort of living brain encased in a body! I do, m fact, have a personality!" But I digress ... 
10 days 'til Midterms... 
By Dave Griffith, Tom Roland, and Patti Carson 
Accem Writers 
W
y are we all here at Notre Dame? 
This is a question debated by many a 

philosopher here at Notre Dame. Just ask your parents and they will say, "to study, of course." However, in the world of crazy college kids and all their antics it is sometimes hard to get focused. At ND/SMC the many popular study areas on campus offer a place for students to get focused. The various study areas on campus allow for anything from neuron-bursting study­ing to a happy hour atmosphere. So we visited them all. Tried them all out. We sat down, we kicked back, we snuck food in. And we graded them all, just for you. 
Hesburgh Library 

Studying in the Hesburgh first floor B is quite an experience. An unidentifi­able vibration runs almost constantly. 
+ There is almost a cult following to studying in the fishbowl. Day after day the same people study there, sitting in almost th.e same seats. The environment does not lend Itself to studying; the furniture is old and uncomfortable, the tile is loud under the traffic, and the lack of food makes for a boring setting. The amount of traffic through the library transforms it into more of a social setting rather than an atmos­phere conducive to study. Junior Tee Teng ex­plains, "Some people go to the bars to socialize, others go to parties, and finally there is that small minority of people that go to the Hesburgh." For menial studying, Hesburgh's fi.rst floor is a good location, but for any deep studymg it's best to look elsewhere. 
Hesburgh's Second Floor Random orange chairs and green c 

carpeting symbolize the chaos of studying on the second floor. There is 
+ no functional reason to devote a small section of the library this decor, but for sleeping and playing there is no substitute to the imitat~on leather. The spinability of the chairs rates h1~h on the universal scale developed by the chair spinning club, but the amount of people that gather there tends to detour any serious build-up of momentum. The chairs, though not really conducive to studying, are also great for naps. Much of second floor Hesburgh can be catego-· 
rized in much the same way: uncon­
ventional. The noise level is high, 
the seating is vast, but the 
usefulness is low except for 
in cases of group study­
ing. For any type of 
group work, the 
second floor is the place to do it. Other good fea­tures include the computer lab with accessibility until 2 a.m. and the windows which reveal how much time has been wasted by the passing of the day. 
Hesburgh's Upper Floors 
This is the most boring, yet effectiv.e, B studying location on campus. Justm Malley sums it up best by saying, "If I • have a lot to do, no matter what the sub­ject, the lOth floor is where I kn~w I ~an . get it done; there are no distractiOns. People m upper Hesburgh sit in little study carrels and study for hours on end with no breaks. If mot!­vation is hard to come by, the upper Hesburgh IS perfect; one falls under strong pressure to con­form to a studious state while up on the top floors. Beware, for going to upper Hesburgh while tired will almost always result in an unwanted unconsciousness. 
Debartolo Study Area There could be nothing less for such a great building then great furniture B+ 
for studying. DeBartolo study area has it all: vendoland, accessibility with its round the clock hours, courtesy phones, inspira­tion (its windows look out on the historic Notre Dame Stadium). and great computer access. This is one study area that seems to have i~ ~ll. Because this lounge is mostly used as a wa1tmg room for future computer users, the lounge is quiet as these same computer users tend to u~e the lounge to get their ideas together before hit­ting the keyboard. The twenty-four hour access of the lab also adds to its social atmosphere; everyone ends up at DeBartolo at some .time ~o cram for a last minute paper. The furmture m the lounge is very comfortable and conducive to studying, making DeBartolo a great place to go for all variations of studying. The only drawback to intense test studying at DeBartolo is the Startrek-like voice that calls the future computer users into the lab. 
Grace Coffee House 
This quaint nook in the basement of Grace B with very limited seating is great for all types of individual studying. It's quiet, yet has a hint of noise coming from Sarge's which serves to keep the sanity. In addition to the noise, Sarge's also offers the ultimate in study breaks; video games, pool, food, and ~able television. These things offer students viable options during their breaks. The coffee h?use itself is a construction of study carrels m a swanky 70s setting of mirrors, wood flooring, and orange wallpaper. The major drawback to coffee house studying is the lack of technology; the closest computer cluster is Hesburgh, and the closest phone is upstairs. But, the lac~ of .tec~­nology is more than made up for by diversity m snack food, including pizza. 
Flanner First Floor The study lounge is good for medium B to short term study sessions. The mere 
+ 
fact that it is on the dorm's first floor 
makes it quite susceptible to distrac-. 
tions. Its quiet demeanor and constructiOn of 
mostly study carrels makes it conducive to t~e 
individual study setting. The study lounge. IS 
close to a snack shop in its basement, but, like 
Grace's study lounge, has a major drawback 
in its lack of computer accessibility. For 
really intense studying, the study lounge 
has its fair share of study distractions 
that make it hard to focus. As a bonus 
to female students, the fact that it's in 
a guys dorm tends to make it quite a 
male dominated study area. 



;ACCENT
February 24, 1995 

Ill77 days 'til Finals (Sorry to remind you) 
LaFortune Student Center 
The basement has a very social atmosphere which attracts many study groups and makes a B perfect meeting place for friends to talk over a • cup of coffee from the Allegro coffee shop. The level of noise is tolerable for reading, working calc /chem problems, and discussing ideas, but it's not acceptable for serious exam studying. The Allegro Cafe and nearby vending machines boost the food factor. It is conveniently located down the hall from the LaFortune computer cluster. It's a nice walk for South Quadders, a short jaunt for North Quad residents and a hike for some Mod Quad inhabitants Although it can get crowded during the day there should be no problem finding a seat in the evening. Actually, the seats are quite comfy oak wood frame chairs, tastefully uphol­stered in a nice berry colored cloth with stripes and matching wood end tables. Although the basement did receive a respectable grade due to the convenient ser­vices, Jennifer Hock, a Pasquerilla East junior said, "It's not for serious study." 

The Huddle 
The area surrounding the Huddle draws 
many study groups and people on study B+ breaks. Those meeting friends tend to be a rowdy bunch, and the additional noise and distraction of the big screen TV definitely decrease the ability to get work done. According to Howard Hall sophomore Amy Martin, a noiseless refuge from the tumult of the Huddle is the Alumni Room in LaFortune. "A lot of people haven't discovered the Alumni Room.. .Its nice to go in the Alumni Room and get away from everyone and then be able to come out here and social­ize." As a South Quad resident, Martin says that LaFortune is a more convenient location for her than the library. In the food and vending category, it's hard to lind a study locale more endowed with dining and snack options. The Huddle offers delicious and nutri­tious burgers and pizza while the convenience store has every cream-injected sponge cake, candy bar, and bev­erage imaginable. Again, in the immortal words of P.E. junior Jennifer Hock, "Not for serious study." 

Fitzpatrick Library 
Surprisingly enough, the library has a social atmos­phere, a far cry from the serious study space B expected from one of the most challenging 
+ majors on campus. Study cubicles in the library offer a quiet getaway from any dis­tractions. Fitzpatrick also benefits from lots of impor­tant-looking books. There's easy computer access to the Fitzpatrick computer cluster down the hall. Sean Norton, a junior from Fisher Hall, sees the Engineering library as an ideal place to study in that "it's close to my dorm, it's close to the computer cluster, it has all the reference books I need for my class work, and it gives you a place to do some group studying-that's when it gets loud." The seating availability could be a problem in the evening, so be sure to get there early. An added plus for the library are vending machines right across the hall. 

The Oak Room 
Located in the South Dining Hall the popular 0 Hoom gets a low grade for its location; it's an c inconvenient walk for everyone beside South Quad residents. The Oak Room has a great social atmosphere and is perfect for taking study breaks, meeting up with friends, and making new friends. They also cater to those late night cravings with their famous buffalo wings (don't forget, Wednesday night 25 cent wings) and a variety of other snack items, beverages and FHEE popcorn (that must be where our tuition money is going). The Oak Room merits a well­deserved food factor of 4. The big screen TV offers a great place to catch your favorite late night host but is also very distracting for those studying. We did find one person actually studying there-Howard Hall sophomore, Jackie Lamear. Jackie says "I need open spaces; I don't like cubicles.. .I like a more relaxed environment," which is something the I Ioward Hall sophomore says the library does not offer. Overall, the Oak Room can be summed up In one word: wings. Grab a bucket of 30 with your friends and go to town. Clearly the Oak Room is not a place for serious studying but rather serious eating and chatting with friends. 

Cushwa-Leighton Library 
Composed of four extremely quiet floors and one rather noisy study lounge with plenty of seating A available, Cushwa Leighton is the favorite study spot of most Saint Mary's students. A previously well-kept secret, more Notre Dame students, both undergraduate and graduate students, come here to study. Though no food or beverages are allowed in the library (except in the basement), the vending machines are adequately stocked with everything from graham crackers to candy and soda. The gal to guy ratio is roughly seven to one, so take that for what it's worth. "I can definitely depend on getting a lot of work done at the Saint Mary's library. It's really quiet and if I stayed in my room to study, I would accomplish nothing," freshman Jennifer Kovaliccik said."The atmosphere is very pleasant, but the only drawback is that males have to leave at midnight, except during finals week when they can study until 2 a.m.," Junior Joe Carney said. The lower level of Cushwa-Leighton is stocked with E­mail computers. Okay, okay, there are only two, but there are two hour limits! Catch the shuttle or hop on your bike or blades and make the trek to the Saint Mary's library. It's worth the trip because you're almost guaranteed to get your work done, especially if you work best when it's quiet. 

Haggar College Center Parlor 
Another well-kept secret as far as study spots B on campus go, the Haggar parlor and snack bar provide a good facility for concentrating. "I usu­ally grab a soda and study in Haggar. It's fairly quiet and it's not overcrowded," sophomore Ashley Denniston said. Though an abundance of seating is not available, students can pretty much count on getting their work done since the parlor is relatively quiet. The snack bar closes at 11:30 p.m., which is ideal for all of those "early to bed" people. 
.··.'
.:Movies .. 
~ •:. " ·.', I ' ' ' " 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 24, 1995 





Spartans upset by coaching 
fiy SHAWN HOCHSTETLER ~ports Writer 
The men's volleyball team stepped back on the court Thursday night to host national powerhouse Michigan State I Jniversity. 
The Irish dropped a match Parlier in the season to the Spartans, who proved to out­man, out-power, and out-hustle the less experienced Irish team. II owever, the one thing the Spartans could not do was out­roach the Irish team. 
Irish coach Steve Hendricks 
made a game time decision to 
switch up the fumbling Irish of­
fense. Hendricks went with a 
two-setter lineup in an effort to 
throw a challenge to the mighty 
Spartan team. 
The change worked perfectly 
for the Irish as they emerged 
from the locker room with in­tense energy that has seemed to evade the team throughout this season. The Irish shocked the Spartans by claiming the first two games 15-8 and 15-10. 

Senior John Vandemore led the Irish with his effective jump-serves. Vandemore served up two aces as he led the team on two consecutive rallies of three and four points. 
"John felt confident with his jumps tonight. He concen­trated and served up some huge points for us," coach Hendricks explained. 
Miguel Ascencio led the Irish hitters with 13 kills in the first two games. 
"Our whole team was fired up tonight. That caused me to play better, have more fun, and put the ball down in front of the defense," Ascencio commented. 
The Spartans spoiled the match as they refused to allow the Irish to claim the victory. They took the next three games from the Irish 7-15, 9-15, and 11-15. Michigan State showed why they are a national power as they exhibited an array of weapons before finally defeat­ing the intensified Irish team. 

"This Notre Dame team sur­prised us tonight," said Michigan State coach Sante Pirelli. "They came out with so much energy. I have to give them a lot of credit for the way they refused to give up against 
us." 
The men's team walked off the court with much dignity af­ter forcing the Spartans to a five game match. 
"We've lacked intensity this season," claimed Hendricks. "Tonight we showed that we can really play well. I'm proud of this team." 
Irish host Wilson Tournment 
fiy J.R. MELORO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hosts the Alex Wilson Invitational at the Loftus Sports Center on Saturday. This meet is as important to Notre Dame as it is to schools around the country who flock to it each year. 
For Notre Dame's women, this meet serves as a chance to finish off the indoor season right, and for a few it serves as the springboard needed to qualify for the NCAA C.hampionships, to be held in Indianapolis March 11-12. For Notre Dame's men, it serves as the last chance to bulk up a team of 20 qualifiers who are headed for the IC4A Championships, which will be held at Princeton March 4-5. There are also a few with the NCAA's in their sights. 
And for schools around the country, such as Arizona and Stanford, this meet serves as integral part of their season. The Alex Wilson Invitational is not only renowned for its national-caliber competition, but also for the oval it's run on: Meyo Track. Notre Dame's facility is second-to-none in the United States. 
Athletes who want to run fast traditionally come to the Alex Wilson Invitational and this year is no exception. Among those competing will be Tim Hacker, Rod DeHaven, Jim Westphal and Derrick Adkins, who was ranked #2 in the world in the 400m hurdles in 1994. 

Notre Dame will put its top stars on the line, including sprinter/hurdler Monica Cox, who is enjoying the finest cam­paign of her career, Danny Payton, who lowered his per­sonal-best in the 400m last week to 47.76, and the Notre Dame men's distance medley relay. 
Dlno Radja \Vitb 27 points. · Orlandc:it which had trailed 
Boston took a 23-21Jead fir~~ quarter and was by a$ rn~ch as 113~105 
.· 33leftin the garne. had 
to tie or win with 17 seconds let't following a Boston turnover. ..·.But after inbounding the ball at halfcourt, Jeff Turner missed a 3·pointer frorn the left baseline with about four seconds left. Brooks Thompson missed a follow from just outside the lane and Nick Anderson missed as time 
.expired; ~'The last play of the game We bad a great look at the 
said Orlando coach Brian Hill. "We had one of our best shooters. It just didn't drop tonight." 
Orlando had to play nearly the entire game without H.orace Grant, who left a minute after the tipoff with back spasms and did not return. 
~·1 burt it in practice, and tonight it just got worse. I tried to move out there, gave it a go. But the pain was incredible;· he said. '"I'll get some treatment tomorrow morning and if I can go, I'll definitely go." 
Boston held O'Neal to just two second~half field goals while building the 113-105 margin. But O'Neal. who had 28 points in the first half, scored the next five of Orlando's points to cut the lead to 115-110. 
The Magic dosed to 117-115 on Anderson's layup with 1:20 remammg, but Xavier McDaniel hit a fallaway jumper with one second left on the shot clock to give Boston a 119-115 edge. Dennis Scott's two free throws with 39 seconds remaining pulled Orlando within two. 
Hardaway finished with 28 points for the Magic. Dee Brown had 24 for Boston and Sherman Douglas 19. 
O'Neal scored half of 
Orlando's first 18 points, but a 
19-7 Boston spurt gave the 
Celtics a 35-29 lead at the end 
of the opening period. Boston 
also led at the half, 64-59, and 
90·83 going into the final 


, The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces . 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: Are you looking for that service pro· ject that really makes a difference. and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ther... THE SOPHOMORE CLASS 
SERVICE PROJECT Youth·Mentoring at the NE Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30 meet at room 161 or Main Circle Questions? • Brian Tierney x1 058 
Farley Hall Players Present: Euripides' MEDEA A New Translation by Brendan Kennelly Performances begin at 8:00pm on: Saturday, Feb. 25th S11nday, Feb. 26th Monday, Feb. 27th At the Loft in Lafortune Tickets are $4 at the Lafortune Info Desk 
Ramada Inn of Elkhart has rooms for Graduation weekend. Minimum stny of two nights required. $125 arlvance deposit per room. Conveniently located at 80/90 Toll Road, 15 miles from Campus. Send "'quest by mail to 3011 Belvedere 11d, Elkhart, IN 46514 or fax to 219· ?62-1590. 
FREE LAUNDRY!!! ~ olurday (2/25) and Sunday (2126) 
Hl Lafortune and Badin Annex Itt JRRY UP and reserve your two hour time slot this Wed., Thurs., or Fri. at the LaFortune info desk. 
SPACE IS LIMITED!!! 

I Jsed Texts Cheap!! Check out Pandora's Books 233-2342 tiD ave & Howard st 10-6 m·sat 9 3 sundays 
I ove Affair ' 'lowing this Fri & Sat '"'10:30 $2 ''ushing Auditorium 

I LOST & FOUND I 
REWARD OFFERED for KEYS lost somewhere between C1 and the Rock. Please call 232·1348. 
LOST WATCH!I!!I I lost my watch in O'Shag room 208 last Thursday, 2·16. It has a white face with a wide black band. The numbers are unique. It's very important to me! Please call Nancy, 277-0655. 
If anyone found a Red and Green 
Power Ranger figure at the Morris 
Inn Bus Shelter on 2/18/94 around 
1.15 pm, please call273-5906. My 8-yr old son is heartbroken. 
Lost on 2117 at Senior Bar Valentine Party -my camera was taken by mistake. I may have yours. Mine is a 35mm Canon Sure Shot I want my pix. Call Maria 284-5232. 
Lost -Men's thin dark brown leather gloves in Library on 1st of 2nd floor on Mon. 2120. Call O'Shag at 4­0975 
FOUND: miraculous medal on Fri. AM near the ACC. Call Maureen at X3295 to claim. 
LOST: A LONG BLACK 
WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT 
AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10 
(FISHER-WALSH DANCE) 
PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 
273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­
REWARD!!!!! 
FOUND· 
Woman's silver ring in O'Shag 
Ladies' room. Call631-8635 to 
identify LOST: Men's gold rope chain & crucifix at Stepan Center on Mon. night 2/20. Please call David at 4­1991. Reward. Thank you 
Last week I lost a black three-ring binder notebook somewhere ­it has all of my stuff from Japanese class in it, so I really need it back. If found. please call me: X3577 
Rosanna 


WANTED 
COUNSELORS: CAMP EMER· SON, coed Mass. Swimming, ten­nis, baseball, basketball, soccer, sailing. windsurfing, waterskiing, arts/crafts. theatre, woodworking, rocketry, archery. judo, yearbook, photography, video, radio, comput­er, MORE! Super kids, great food, friendly, fun! NO general coun· selors. 800-STAFF95 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information calll­206-634-0468 ext C55843 
Macri's Deli on the East Race 
now hiring for all positions. It's a 
great place to work, flexible hours 
and great pay. 
Apply within 214 North Niles Ave. 
or call 280-4824. 

FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 

SHARE NICE FUN. HOME W/ 
GRAD. MALE TO 6/95$195 
232-1519 
.___F_o_R_sA_L_E_ __.I 
For Sale: Technics 5-disc cd player w/remote-perfect condition $175 or best offer-X0640 
TREK 1400 BIKE $375 219-273-9382. 
Mac Powerbook.1yr.old. 284-5256 
86 Chevy Nova, red, auto, air, many new parts, looks & runs great, $3500 or best offer, 272-9342 
Mac Powerbook 145, 1 year old, 40mb, claris, word, & more. $1,100/BO wade x3064 
IBM386·25mhz,80Mb Hd,4 MB RAM,DOS 6.1 ,WIN 3.1 ,3.5"&5.25",Modem,soft­ware.$600 or best Call Sean x0519 or x3790. 


TICKETS 
$$$$ 
Need 4 Marquette GA's 
Call Ted x3402 
$$$$ 
Help! My father is coming from NY for the Marquette game -I NEED ONE GA FOR MARQUETTE GAME Please Call Pat x1130-Thanks. 
HELP!!!! 
I need one Marquette GA 
Father wants to see Irish play 
Nancy 271-7494 
I NEED ONE GA FOR MAR­
QUETTE ..... CALL MOLLY AT 
284-5151! 
LED ZEP TIX 4 SALE 
Plant/Page Chicago 4/28 
x2264 

I~...._P_ER_s_o_N_AL
_ 
___J 
000 The Copy Shop 000 Lafortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE!!! 
Phone 631-COPY 
WATCH JENNY JONES ON MARCH 1ST-its on at 4:00 on WGN. See Nate dog on Luther! 
*********••••HELP!••••••••••••••••• I need a ride one-way to Philadelphia for Spring Break. Willing to share expenses. Call Meg@ x-1255 
Brady, 
Meet me at Bridgets and be sure to Pucker Up Baby! To the 2 Rugby guys who were lick· ing me at Bridgets last Saturday· Let's get to know each other. 284· 4347 
LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER -I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, without drugs/diets/exercise! All-natural product-guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209-2150. 
2 LUSTY BABES need ride to Key West Call Kim x4528 or Colleen 287-7353 and give your best offer. 
JK HQ 1181.14 v93 1993 26 February 4:15 
• * • * * * DALLOWAY'S • • • • • • • Friday, Feb 24 @ 8:30: Tiny from U of lllinios. Decaf, Krautmiser Saturday, Feb 25 @ 9:00: Road Apples Open this Friday and Saturday, 
8:00 to Midnight 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Hollywood's Coming 
to Notre Dame! 
Can You Handle The Action? 
WE DARE YOU! 
PANGBORN'S PRICE IS RIGHT March 4th @ 7pm Washington Hall stay tuned ... $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Shhh! You're wakin' the baybee ... 
Jumpy is back in business with 6 feet 10 & 1/2 inches. Congrats. Good luck Saturday. 
GipperWho? 
Kiddo, 
Two weeks and I'll be there, we'll have to see if John is around or something 
-An lllinios Farmer 
N· 
You already have cute legs, like the rest of you! Cute. Cute Cute, Cute, Cute, Cute, Cute!! 
D 
Anyone interested in purchasing a Grace Hall Sweatshirt chould contact Chris Wu @ 1765 
COMING SOON AFROTC DANCE·A·THON March 24 Bring your Dancing Shoes Proceeds go to Habitat for Humanity 
Hail the Silverwolf 
The Smoking Lounge is now open 
To our friends down the hall: 
Enjoy your extended vactaion! 

.---------------------------"--~-----~-------~------------------------------------­
rriday, February 24, 1995 

Miller 
continued from page 24 
BPst," Miller said. "They put up more points than I do, and the mndia loves that so they get tlw attention. But I'm more of a complete player. People ovnrlook my defense and my ability to run the tnam." 
In the 1993 and 1994 seasons ~tarquette became just the <;ixth team in NCAA history to hrag the top field goal percent­ago defense in the nation in r·onsecutive years. Even with­out .lim Mcilvaine at center, who is now playing with the NBA Washington Bullets, their finld goal percentage defense of :17.3% is not far off from last ymtrs leading 35.8%. 
One eannot overlook Miller as l111ing the reason for this con­tinued success on defense. Last Tuesday evening Golden Eagle hnad eoach Mike Deane matched Miller against one of the natiOn s leadmg scorers m DePaul's senior swingman Tom Kleinschmidt. Kleinschmidt, who averages 21.6 points a game, had only one Jay-up in a one for 13 shooting perfor­mance. Miller had 20 points and live assists. 
"I won't get you 20 points ev­ery night," Miller, a 10.9 ppg scorer. commented. "But I will get double (digits}, be consis­tent and play good man-to-man defense. In high school I learned how to get through screens, and all the great play­ers get screens off the ball. So I could get up close on him (Kleinschmidt} and take away his three-point shot, and I was quick enough to keep up with him on the drive." 
With this blend of court awareness. leadership ability and defensive excellence, Miller has made a name for himself. His selection as an All­American candidate and nomi­nation for the Francis P. Naismith Award, for best player 






MORRISSEY FILM FEST 

FILMS WILL BE ACCEPTED IN ROOM 105 MORRISSEY UNTIL MARCH 23. 
QUESTIONS-CALL SCOTT x3454 
1994-95 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
AN IRISH CELEBRATION WITH 
THURSDAY, MARCH 2 7:30P.M. O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens. groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located In O'Laughlln, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 2191284-4626. 
/'\ORfftU CtnHR 
fOR 1l1t 41 RTS 
The Observer • SPORTS 
under SIX feet tall. attests that people are taking notice. 
"Tony has developed into one of the best. if not the best point guard in the country," Tennessee head coach Kevin O'Niell said. 
O'Niell recruited and coached Miller for three years at Marquette before taking the job at Tennessee. 
The job was basically given to him after the then Warriors beat Kentucky, Tennessee's main conference rival. to ad­vance to the Sweet 16 of the NCAA tournament last season; a victory that was keyed by the play of Miller. He embarrassed the Wildcats' nationally ac­claimed full court press by re­peatedly driving down the full length of the court for an easy lay-up or one of his nine assists. 
O'Niell is fully aware of the effect Miller has had on his ca­reer. "Miller is the reason for my success, the biggest." 
O'Niell recruited Miller to fill an obvious void in his team. He had the big men with Mcilvaine and Damon Key at the power positions, but had a walk-on starting at point guard. 

"When we saw him in high school we thought he could step in right away and start for us," O'Niell said. 
And start he did. Miller has started in every game of his ca­reer and many times playing all but five minutes. Knowing that the team did not have a proven back-up at point guard, he con­tinued to play his high minutes in extreme pain from tendonitis in his left wrist, and led his team into the 1993 NCAA tour­nament. This was the team's first NCAA appearance since 1983. 
"I definitely think Tony's the reason the program got turned around," Mcilvaine said. "His guidance on the court made it all come together. He pulled all the pieces into one. He was the ultimate in smoothing every­thing out and making it work together." 
You probably already know us through our highly effective test prep courses. our educational books series, our software. our on-line services. or even our Foundation. 
With 60 locations worldwide. 
The Princeton Review has many 
full-time opportunities for 
motivated individuals who have a 
commitment to excellence and 
a sense of humor. 
If you think you have what it takes to contribute to the fastest-growing educational services company in the country--ru11r-don 'twalk. to the Career Center and sign up for an On.Campus Interview. 



SCORE 
We're coming to Notre Dame on Monday, February 27th.

A JOB 
We'd love to meet you. 

THE 
PRINCETON REVIEW 
...more fun than you d.eseroe... 

n., Pri•uto• lle11ieto;., ••ta.ffiliatod llliU. Prinuto• !hlloemtw or ETS. (212) 874-821! 11888 Cllri.1!11'8Nwllw.CI. 
page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Te01ple upsets 
UMass 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Freshman .Johnny Miller scored 25 points, including seven 3-pointers, and Temple's outside shooting beat No. 5 Massachusetts' inside power 72-63 Thursday night to snap the Minutemen's six-game win­ning streak in the series. 
The Owls (16-8, 9-5 Atlantic 
10} lost a 15-point first-half lead, but were able to take con­trol in the second half as Miller, whose previous best was 21 points against West Virginia, hit five 3-pointers in the second half. His seven -in 15 attempts -was one off the school record held by three players. 
Massachusetts (20-4, 10-3} was only able to score inside against Temple's zone defense. 
Massachusetts took its only lead of the game with the first field goal of the second half, but Miller, who also had five steals, got the Owls the lead back for good with a 3-pointer. 
Temple has won seven of its last eight games and has be­come a legitimate contender for an at-large berth in the NCAA tournament. 





Rick Steves 
European Travel Seminar 
Hosted byRick Steves, author of 
Europe Through The Backdoor 
andnostof 
Travels In Europe with Rick Steves
..: 
Tues., March 7th Sheraton Hotel and Towers Ballroom 
301 E. North Water St. 7:00-9:30 pm Admission $2.00 R.S.V.P. 312-951-0585 Sponsored by Council Travel 1153 N. Dearborn, 2nd Floor, Chicago, IL 60610 
Tke. Ce.trte-1" fo,. Civilfwillu.JI(().I( Rtj-i,t.r p,.e..fe.trt.r: 
A LECTURE AND SLIDE PRESENTATION 

DR. ROBERT KIRSCHNER 
DIRECTOR OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS FOR PHYSICIANS FOR HUMAN RIGHTS 

"FORENSIC DOCUMENTATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES" 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 1995 
4:00p.m. 
Room 120-Law School 

• Includes identification of"disappeared persons" using DNA te~. 



r----­


. The Observer/ Eric Ruethling 
1olly Gavm, a key part to the team's depth, won both her singles and :oubles matches against Californis-Santa Barbara. 

By Craig Lucas Tuesday and Wednesday Feb. 28th and March 1st 7:30p.m. Washington Hall Tickets Available at LaFortune Box Office $3.00 
THE COMEDY CAFE PRESENTS... 



COMEDYSPORTZ 

COMEDYSPORTZ, THE 90 MINUTE SHOW IN WHICH TWO TEAMS OF ACTORS PERFORM A 
..... 
SERIES OF IMPROVISATIONAL COMEDY SKETCHES BASED ON AUDIENCE SUGGESTIONS. 

WHEN: Friday, February 24 TIME: 9-llp.m. WHERE: Haggar Parlor-SMC COST: JUST $2.00! 
~-----­
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 24, 1995 



Irish cruise in first round 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Assistant Spons Editor 
Some reward. 
The 15th ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team cruised to a 5-2 victory yesterday over California-Santa Barbara in the first round of the UST A/IT A N{ltional Indoor Championships in Madison, Wis. Their prize is a second-round showdown with no. 1-ranked Georgia. 
Playing the best shouldn't come as a too much of a sur­prise to the Irish as they knew the 16-team invitational tour­ney would offer top-notch com­petition. 
"Every team here is very good," coach Jay Louderback. "We just hope to win and keep advancing." 
On the strength of their depth, that is exactly what the Irish against the Gauchos. 
The 5-3 Irish swept the bot­tom half of the singles draw, as freshmen Molly Gavin, Kelley Olson, and sophomore Erin 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Catl:lgories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$1.00 

• 
Appraisals large and smoll Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Band, IN 46617 (219) 232-844:1 
Gowen all won in straight sets. 
"One of our strengths is depth," Louderback noted. "We've always been pretty good top-to-'bottom, especially this year." 
In addition to their singles win, Gavin and Gowen notched their third doubles win in their past four outings to clinch the match. The Irish led 4-2 after the singles competition, thus, after the doubles point gave the Irish the win, the final two dou­bles matches were suspended. 
The other Irish point was earned by no. 1 singles player 
starring joan baez • joe cocker 

• country joe & the f,sh • crosby, stills & nosh • arlo uthrie • richie havens • "imi hendrix 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE FRIDAY & SATURDAY 8:00 p 
COMEDYSPOR1Z 
WHAT DO TilE FANZ AND 
CO~ENTATORZSAY? 
"AN ARTFUL AND INCREASINGLY POPULAR FORM OF STAGE ENTERTAINMENT..." -SPORTS n.LUSTRATED 
"A BIG lllT WITH SPECfATORS!" -THE CHICAGO TRlBUNE 
''YOU'VE HEARD OF SPORTS BARS, YOU'VE HEARD OF IMPROV-HERE'S A WACKY 
HYBRID." 
-THE DAll. Y NORTHWESTERN 
'TilEJOKES ARE GOOD, TilE COMPETITION IS KEEN...THE AUDIENCE HAS A GREAT TIME!" 
-CHICAGO MAGAZINE 
"IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT, YOU SHOUW." -NORMAN MARK. NBC 
Wendy Crabtree. The junior All-American breezed by UCSB's Jean Okada 6-4, 6-1 to earn just her second singles win in the past five matches. 
Ranked 26th in the nation en­tering the tournament, Crabtree had been struggling. 
"Wendy was a little down be­cause she has had so many close matches that she's lost," Louderback said. "But she is tough and bounces back." 
Her comeback will need to continue today as the Irish look to knock off the Bulldogs. 


page 17 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 24, 1995 
i1 9J9)5 IB(S) Oil g cal~ IBeo> lUI1t M at1t~ lhHUJ [p>$) 
130 Pounds 

Eric Garcia vs Frank Diorio Avalino Verceles vs Bob PayneTodd Bello vs Pete Bancroft Matt Peacock vs Dan Zepf 
135 Pounds 

Greg Marks vs Paul Villa Pete O'Rourke vs Ben Decio John Connorton vs Tony Biolchini Dennis Joyce vs Andy Dicello 
145 Pounds 

Dan Couri vs Ron Jacinto Lucas Molina vs Rob ClancyTed Pagano vs Jake Rademacher Tony Abalos vs Rick Rogers 
150 Pounds 

Matt Kowalsky vs David Bradshaw Shaw Hamer vs Damon Affinito Tim Irwin vs Joe Hartzell Tom Kelly vs Nate Mick 
155 Pounds 

Chris Rosen (Bye)Ben Cast vs Brendan McGuire Jesse Barrett vs Pete Titterton Chris Marando vs John Kmetz 
: 2 WEEKS UNLIMITED TANNING : 1 BED, BOOTH & SUN C..APSULE 1 II $25.00 W(THIS COUPON I 
exp 3/10/95 
I 

L---------------~ 
\ ..., \.. 

tF.: NO ~' (· : . ·~:~A) 
•• r f ~~X"''f ·' 
157 Pounds 

Eric Hillegas (Bye) Ryan Walker vs John Moran Stefan Borsa vs Casey Price Mike Thompson vs Butch Cabreros 
160 Pounds 

Michael Thompson vs Joe Zirnhelt Mike Wigton vs Matt Barilla Dan Adams vs Brendan Heatherman Brad Joseph vs Brad Parker 
165 Pounds 

John Christoforetti (Bye)Rob Piecuch vs Kevm Arendt Glen Mazano vs Jack MacLeod Dan Bergan vs Pat Dolan 
170Pounds 

Jeff Goddard vs Frank Cristinzio Brian O'Reilly vs Chris Peterson Todd Murphy vs Clay Scheetz Norm Beznoska vs Mike Farrell 
175 Pounds 

Rob Naticchia (Bye) Nolan Koon vs Pat Keaney Chip Farrell vs Ted Lefere Eric Makowski vs Bob Lalor 


Two Convenient Locations Close to Campus! 
South Beild -University Commons 
(across from University Park Mall) 
Phone 272-7653 Mishawaka-Grape and McKinley 
(located near Kmart) 
Phone 256-9656 
185 Pounds 

Mike Mantey (Bye) Dave Harris vs Chris Neumann Matt Mulderrig vs Tom Robertazzi Ryan Clark vs Chad Harrison 
195 Pounds 

Troy Phillips (Bye) Dave Monahan vs Dan O'Rourke Joe Oriana vs Jake Lustig Dave Baker (Bye) 
*Heavyweight fights are to be held on Wednesday 
The Observer/ Robert Bollman Jr 
rch 
·ce 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
creation of a 157-pound divi­sion, which features sophomore Butch Cabreros, who spent his time training in South Bend. 
Sources have said that cap­tains and coaches experienced difficulties finding a place for Cabreros, who could present problems to any of the return­ing finalists. 
Heavyweight action will begin Wednesday during the semifi­nals. There are only three fighters in this category, but all three are true heavyweights, dwarfing the closest next heav­iest division, 195 pounds. 
"We have three people be­tween 220 and 240 pounds," Goddard said. "We usually try to keep everyone within ten pounds of their true weight, so these guys have to be in their own division." 
Each bracket is filled top to bottom with boxers as well as brawlers, which should pro­duce some exciting quarterfinal matches. Overall, the 145-and 170-pound divisions look the strongest. with both Dan Couri, a champion a year ago, and Goddard returning as top seeds. 
Couri could be challenged by a many number of boxers, in­cluding Rob Clancy and Lucas Molina, with a possible finals bout with junior Rick Rogers on the horizon. 
Goddard. who has increased his weight by five pounds every year of his career, will have possible clashes with seniors Chris Peterson and Clay Scheetz as well as junior Mike Farrell down the line. 
New boxers to watch are freshmen Chip Farrell, son of Bengals Bouts coach and for­mer champion Pat Farrell at 175-pounds, Pat Dolan at 165, and senior Frank Diorio, a hard-throwing left-bander in the 130-pound division. 
"We have a very strong sophomore class, and most our freshmen were in the novice tournament, so we got a lot of extra work in," Goddard con­tinued. "We're really looking forward to this year's tourna­ment." 


SPRING BREAKERS! 
ao days unlimited tanning for $35 -or­$J per session when you huy 1 to 100 sessions!!! Around the Corner from Sam's Club
Ul}StUd1•0 271-lSUN Area's Newest & Friendliest Salon 
Join together wtth up to aav• ol YUill' lrlendslo parUctpllte In Clll'lltmas In April (CIA). 
CIA II a...llay wwldniiHIIIDII durlnt wlllch the Soutll Band COIWIIIIIItY wll Jain rorcaa with the students, lacutlJ. llld stan ol Notre o.ne ...1t. Mary's ta ....,... llld repair tha hom8l of the naedy, llllllriY. ml IIMIIcapped restdllntl of a Soutllllanlllllllgllbol"bood. 

Sign-Ups 
Mon., Feb. 27, Tues., Feb. 28, 
11 AM to 2 PM, 4 PM to 8 PM 
at the library Concourse 
LIMITED SPOTS AVAILABLE 
il1 to Benefil Christmas in April 
.nnJ 7. Tlm Vau D ..... "'aUl"' at :2.'11-~ltJ~tl. \•l" l~ Wot.h.f at 

r 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 24, 1995 




Midwest Championships next on agenda 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the JACC will he the site of more than just basketball and hockey. 
After spending the first month of their season on the road, the Notre Dame fencing team re­turns home where they will host the 1995 Midwest Fencing Team Championships on Saturday and Sunday. 
However, due to changes in the format of the NCAA cham­pionships this year, no teams or individuals will qualify out of the Midwest Championships as in previous years. 

Qualifying for the NCAAs will occur next weekend in Appleton, Wisconsin. 
For the Irish, this merely changes the focus, not the im­portance. 
Some of that incentive involves competing against each other for the last few spots on the team that will travel to Appleton. While the lineup re­mains set for the most part, this will provide a little healthy competition between team­mates over the weekend. 
For some, the weekend also provides the opportunity for the fencers to monogram. 

"If you concentrate on the team wins, the individuals wins will take care of themselves," junior Mindi Kalogera said. 
Heading into the champi­onships, the Irish also will use the valuable knowledge they gained on their east coast swing to help them. 
"Our most difficult competi­tion is behind us now," sabre captain Chris Hajnik said. "But we're not going to let up." 
Because of the rule changes, the matches will be fenced in a regular dual meet format. In fact, each of the numerous 
Cardinal proves too strong for Irish 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
The No. 15 Notre Dame men's tennis team fell victim to another talented opponent Thursday, falling 6-0 No. 1 Stanford University. 
Stanford's Jeff Salzenstein, ranked 6th in the nation, beat Notre Dame's 16th rated Ryan Simme 6-1. 3-6, 6-2. 
Stanford (9-0), won the other three singles matches in straight sets. Scott Humphries defeated Mike Sprouse 6-3, 6-4 at No. 2; Jim Thomas defeated John J. O'Brien 6-2, 3-0 (before it was retired) at No. 4; and Ricky Becker defeated Steve Flanigan 7-5, 6-3 at No. 6. 
The number three match of Stanford's Paul Goldstein vers­es Notre Dame's Jason Pun, and the number five match between Grant Elliot of the Cardinal and J akub Pietrowski of the Irish were suspended. 


~OBSERVER 
Sports department is now looking for Associate Sports Editors (2) Assistant Sports Editors (2) Day Editor ( 1) and Copy Editors 
Please submit a one-page letter of intent and resume by Tuesday, Feb. 28 at 5 p.m. Questions? Call Mike Norbut at 631-4543. 
DIRECTED BY MIKE D. MORRIS SET & LIGHTING DESIGN BY GREG LOFTUS COSTUMES DESIGNED BY JENNIFER PETERSON 
FEBRUARY 23, 24,25 AT 8P.M. FEBRUARY 26 AT 2:30 P.M. LITTLE THEA 
TICKETS: $8/ADULTS; $6/SENIOR CITIZENS & GROUPS; $4/SMC-ND COMMUNITY; $3/STUDENTS TICKETS ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE. LOCATED IN O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, OPEN FROM 9-5, MON. -FRI. VISA. MASTERCARD ORDERS AT 219/284-4626 
Stanford won the doubles point by winning two matches. The tandem of Goldstein and Humphries defeated Pun and Sprouse of the Irish 8-4, and Elliot and Salzenstein defeated Notre Dame's Flanigan and Pietrowski 8-0. 
Notre Dame (3-4), will play another top ten team in Texas Christian on Friday. 
RETREAT 
DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
teams the Irish fence this week­end will count on their record as a dual meet. 
A sampling of these teams in­clude Michigan, Michigan State, Ohio State, Wayne State, Cleveland State, and Tri-State. ' 
"We're hoping to sweep it like last year which will help give us momentum," senior foilist Liz Caruso said. 
When reflecting on what will occur this weekend, it is hard not to remember last year. It was at these championships that the Irish won all five weapons, allowing them to compete with Penn State in ev­ery weapon, leading to their championship season. 
"If we can generate that same emotional team spirit we had last year, we will all be happy," Irish coach Mike DeCicco said. 
For our bonnet-wearing beauty: 
Have ahair-raising 
21 st Birthday, 







Rachal! 
Love, 
Kim, Beth, Cara, Carin &Deana 


otre 
ame 

ncounter 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opportunity, In cH..ogue wllh ottwra, to deepen your underat1ndlng of youreelf, your nluea, your ,.,alionlhlp wllh Chriet, your expert.noe of Chrilllf.n community 8nCI eervio& 
MARCH 31 -APRIL 2, 1995 

February 27-March 3 
March 3-4:00 p.m. 
Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
COST: $25.00 (?MPUSMINISTRY 

.---------------------------~------~--~---­
Friday, February 24, 1995 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
INTERHALL LACROSSE ­The RecSports office is offering interhall lacrosse with the deadline being February 23rd. The mandatory captains' meet­ing will be at 5:00 PM in the 
JACC auditorium on the same date. Any questions please call 1-6100. 
Wrestling-Attention ND Wrestlers! Interested in reviv­ing wrestling @ the Univ. o NO? A group of students is starting a wrestling club on campus. If interested in the dub, call Marcus or Andrew @ 4-2230 and you will be sent do tails. 
Free T-shirts-Free Notre name imprints on blank t­shirts or sweatshirts before the game and up to 8:00 during the Michigan-NO hockey game, Sat. Feb. 25 at the JACC Ice llink. 
COMBO MEAL $2.99 
Lite Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce, Garden Salad, 20 oz. Coca-Cola® Unlimited Breadsticks (dine-in only) 
Limited time only. 
F.n~~· 

The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• SWIMMING ANO DIVING 

Irish challenged by expanded MCC 
By BETSY BAKER 
Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame swimming and diving teams are going out with gusto as they host the Midwestern Collegiate Conference championships for the last time this weekend. Next year, the Irish will move to the Big East, and with their performance thus far this sea­son, it is safe to say that the other members of the MCC are not sad to see them go. 
The women's team will enter the championships with a school-record 14-1 dual meet record in the 1994-95 season. They will be looking to defend a seven-year rule of the MCC by achieving their eighth consecu­tive conference title. 
The team is led by another school-record holder, freshman freestylist Shelley Hotchkiss who will strengthen the team in the distance events and sopho­more Erin Brooks, the top Irish contender in the backstroke. 
Hotchkiss looks to post an NCAA qualifying time while Brooks pool-record time in the 200 backstroke during the National Catholic Championships this past December has already given her NCAA consideration. Junior Jesslyn Peterson will also be looking for a second straight qualification. 
An added challenge for this year's talented squad is the re­cent expansion of the MCC. A 
HOWTOFEEDA STUDENT BODY FOR UNDER s3. 
Register at Fazoli's to win an all-expense paid Spring Break trip for 2to Sonora Bay, Mexico. Trip includes beach front accommodations at Sonora Bay Resort, meals, snorkeling, sailing and much more. Drawing is March 10. 
Must be 18 to enter. No purchase necessary. 
@'g_"CLASSIC
_ .... '!. 

·eoca-cora· and "Coke" 
are lrademarl!s ollhe Coca.Cota Company 

Real Italian Real Fast ... 
record number of schools will be traveling to South Bend seeking to destroy the Irish reign. 
"The expansion of the MCC makes this meet the deepest in history with any number of teams competing for the title," said head coach Tim Welsh. 
On the men's side of the pool, the Irish team will be looking to regain their five year reign of the conference which they lost two years ago to La Salle. This year's competition is looked at to be stronger and faster than anything the Irish have seen in the past. There is also the added pressure of finishing out strong in the MCC. Junior Ry Beville, the top prospect for the Irish in the butterfly event, will 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
Spartans rolled to an 8-4 vic­tory. 
After making significant strides on both sides of the puck over the last month, Notre Dame is anticipating an even closer contest tonight. 
On the offensive end, sopho­more left wing Terry Lorenz has been playing like a man possessed, scoring 10 points over his last four games. Junior center Jamie Ling , sophomore right wing Tim Harberts and junior right wing Brett Bruininks must come up big for the Irish to pull ofT what would be one of the biggest upsets in the NCAA this season. 
The Spartans enter the game in a three-way tie for third 
be looked upon to help the Irish return to the top as the Irish waves the conference good-bye. 
"There is a lot of pressure be· cause it is the last year since we will be going to the Big East next year," said Beville. 
"Also, this year's competition is probably the fastest we've seen." 
Finishing the season with a disappointing dual mark of 5-9 and the fact that this is the last shot at the MCC and taking its crown back from La Salle gives the Irish added incentive. "We lost four swimmers to ei­ther overseas programs or medical reasons," said Beville. "But we are all pretty excited and ready to catch up to La Salle." 
place in the CCHA with an 18­10-3 mark. 
Center Anson Carter {27 goals), left wing Rem Murray {44 points). and left wing Steve Guolla (43 points) compose one of the nation"s most potent of­fensive trios. Goaltender Mike Buzak has been solid this sea­son, compiling a 11-8-3 record and allowing just 3.28 goals per game. 
As tough a test as MSU will present, it won't come close to the challenge the Irish will face against the Wolverines on Saturday. 
Michigan, ranked No. 2 in the nation by most publications, enters the game having already locked up the CCHA's regular season championship with a 24-5-1 overall record. The Wolverines, who walloped the Irish 12-2 and 9-3 in both meetings this season. 

4 GxnR!wrNsToCAILTI-ElimE B r-------------------------•·-------------------------~I I I I I I I I I I I I I IAny Large 14 " Pizza for only $5 : Large 14 " Cheese Pizza Only $4 :1 1The Best Pizza at The Best Price Now, That's a Deal!1 1 1 1Call The Huddle At 1-6902 I Call 1-6902 I1 1 I I I II COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/1111 I I COUPON EXPIRES 11/30/115 I ·-------------------------·I I ·-------------------------·I I I I I I I I I I I I I IYou get 2 Large 14" 1 item 2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas I I 1 1Pizzas for Onl~ $9and a 2/iter Coke Product On1y $10I I 1 1Cal/1-6902 I Call 1-6902 II I I I I I COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115 I COUPON EXPIRES 11/30/115 II I ~-------------------------· ·-------------------------· CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 We'll meet or beat any competiors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite.  

------~--­

-------------------------~--­
Friday, February 24, 1995 

page 20 
.lACROSSE 


Irish open with Lions 
By DAVID TREACY 
Sports Writer 
It's time to face reality. 
This Sunday, the Notre Dame lacrosse team will travel to Penn State to face the 18th ranked Nittany Lions. After an unchallenging scrimmage against Denison last weekend, the Irish must step up their play to the next level. 
Thankfully, it should not be too hard. 
Without a doubt, the 1995 squad is the most talented in Notre Dame history. Along with several key veterans, the tP.am has a tremendous freshman class. This has lead head coach Kevin Coorigan to assert. 
Last year, Penn State finished 17th in the country with an 8-4 record. They should be hungry to upset Notre Dame after being dismantled in last season's opener 12-9. 
As far as the Nittany Lions go, the Irish 
don't seem to be worried. "They should be the same as last year, with just anoth­er year of experience. We handled them well last year," said defenseman Mike Iorio. 
"We couldn't scout their team, so we concentrated on improving ourselves in practice. We just want to play our own game," he added. 
On attack, the team has been stressing that patience is key. "We want to take our time and maintain possession," said attackman Randy Colley. "We just need to wait for the best opportunity. not the first one." 
The team starts the 1995 season with 
four straight road games. 

Notre Dame will be led by tri-captains 
Colley, Iorio, and Billy Gallagher. Colley. 
an honorable mention All-America pick 
on attack last season, also captained the 
squad in '94. Iorio has been a third team 
All-American on defense for the past two 
seasons, and Gallagher, a starter on de­
fense. is a strong competitor and leader. 
Contributed by Notre Dame Sports Information 
Second year captain Randy Colley and the Irish will face Penn State this weekend to open their season. Colley was an All-American last year. 

1995 NOTRE DAME LACROSSE SCHEDULE 
3arley .2lall Players Present: 
FEBRUARY 

26 at Penn State 1:00 p.m. 
MARCH 

5 at North Carolina 1:00 p.m. 12 at Maryland-BC 2:00 p.m. 14 Princeton 3:00p.m. 19 VILLANOVA 2:00p.m. 25 HOBART 2:00p.m. 
APRIL 

1 BUTLER 2:00p.m. 8 HARVARD 2:00p.m. 13 AIR FORCE 3:00p.m. 22 at Massachusetts 1:00 p.m. 29 at Michigan State 1:30 p.m. 
MAY 

6 at Ohio State 2:00p.m. 
Celebrate a 
friend's 

birthday with 
a special 

Observer ad. 
Bed 'N Breakfast 

Registry 
Rooms in private homes for: 

JPW, BLUE &GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
and other special ND-SMC events 
(219)291-7153 
Accelerated Program in Nursing 

• Earn a BS. degree in nursing • Eligibility requirement baccalaureate degree as of May'95 • Program begins May 30, 1995 and ends July, 1996 Application materials must be submitted by March 1,1995. For more information contact, 
Saint Mary's College Admission Office at (219) 2.84-4587. 
Euripides' 








Medea 

New Translation bU Brendan Kennellu 
Performances begin at 8:00pm on: 

At the Lon in Lafortune Saturday, February 25th Sunday, February 26th Monday, February 27th 
Tickets are $4.00 --Available at the Lafortune Information Desk 
THE JOURNAL OF COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY LAW 
Presents a symposium 

Sports Reform: College Athletics in Flux 
Today-Friday, February 24, 1995: 8:00a.m.-5:00p.m. Tomorrow-Saturday, February 25, 1995: 8:00a.m.-12:00 noon 
Center for Continuing Education 

All students and Faculty are invited to come to the symposium and participate in the discussions. (feel free to drop in and out as your schedule allows!) 
Topics to be presented: 
• Historical perspective of amateurism in college athletics 
•Government attempts at regulating college athletics 
• NCAA regulation of college athletics 
•The Knight Commission Report on Intercollegiate Athletics 
•Title IX and gender equity in athletics 
• Educating the athlete 
•College athletics as a vehicle for social reform 

We have scheduled a wide variety of speakers on these issues from the government, institutions of higher education, and attorneys who practice in the area in private practice, at the NCAA, and at colleges and universities 
For more specific information, contact: 

Bill Walsh • JCUL Office, Law School • 631.. 6 7 49 
i ~ 

The Observer/ Eric Ruelhling 

Despite having missed last season, guard Stacy Fields has been a constant contributer for the Irish in all aspects of game, including assists. She has had four games with five dishes a piece. 

HEY SENIORS 
THE FREDDY JONES BAND 
AT ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 

SAT., FEB. 25TH 


86.00 AT THE DOOR DOORS OPEN AT 9 P.M. 
page 21 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
Fields adds a bit of spice to Irish 
ByKCGOYER 
Sports Writer 
A lot of different ingredients make up a good basketball team. You need a shooter, a rebounder, a ball handler. a defensive specialist, a healthy serving of unity and serious dose of hustle. And then there's the secret ingredient which is a little bit of every­thing or a lot of one thing as each game will require. 
For the Irish, that ingredient is Stacy Fields. 
Fields fills in the cracks on the Notre Dame team. Whatever is needed, she steps up to do. 
Notre Dame's big game this season was against Purdue in the home opener. As needed, it was Fields' big game as well. 
Due to an injury sustained while playing soccer in high school, Fields missed all of last season with an injured foot. She had a complicated surgery and extensive physical therapy for the past year. November 30 against Purdue marked her first return to Notre Dame Women's Basketball in the Joyce Athletic Convocation Center since her freshman year in 1992. 
Although the game ended in a heartbreaking loss for Notre Dame, 83-87, the victory was the only thing missing in Field's first game back with the Irish. 
Pat McKelvey 

5 bedroom house for rent 
·'95 & '96 school year· Fully furnished with security system 258,9996 
The leading scorer with 28 points, she stepped up to fill in when the Purdue defense con­centrated on last year's Most Valuable Player Beth Morgan. 
Asked about her feelings to­wards her performance after the game, Fields was charac­teristic of the Notre Dame women's basketball program: 
"It just doesn't mean as much without the win for the team." 
Fields rookie season was im­pressive as well. She played in 25 games and earned 19 starts. Her ability to score was revealed early as she averaged 
8.2 points per game and posted 9 double figure games in her freshman year. 
This year, Fields has come up with the clutch three pointer several times. She leads the team in three point shot per­centage with a 55% accuracy. 
Rebounding is also a strength for Fields, a 6'0" guard. As a freshman, she averaged 5 re­bounds per game, the most of any guard, and is currently the fourth leading rebounder on the team behind such power­houses as Letitia Bowen. Katryna Gaither, and Carey Poor. 
Versatility is the trademark of more than one Irish player. Fields registers at third in as­sists, including game highs of 5 four times since her start in 1992. 
Coach Muffet McGraw ap­plauds Fields' efforts on the court which don't show up in statistics. Fields is a hustle player. In any given game, a fan can expect to see her dive out of bounds or slam into the floor for the loose ball. 
"In her effort alone. Stacy [can be] the difference in the game," McGraw said, "Just the little things she does so well." 
The University of Detroit will learn first hand about the Irish ingredients at 12:30 on Saturday when they meet the hustle of Stacy Fields and the Notre Dame Women's Basketball team. 
RECYCLE 
THE 
OBSERVER 

Sunday, February 26 • 7-8:30 pm Thursday, March 2 • 7-8:30 pm Sunday, March 5 • 7-8:30 pm 
Mind, Body, Spirit-How do you "Theology 100 is over. I have this Bible What Is Christian Service all about? develop the spirit In the gray winter sitting on my shelf. There must be So much to do, so little time... of South Bend? some way to put It to use after all 
How can we live out the Christian value of

that study. After all, It Is Lent."
An experience of prayer followed by service for others? What is the relationship
discussion helping us to bring all of our Come participate in a form of prayer that between service and a strong prayer life?
life experiences to God in prayer. Get will bring the Bible alive in ways you may The panel will focus on their experience of
the jump on a fruitful Lenten season. not have thought of before. Appreciate the relating the two challenges.
Sunday readings in a different light. 
Presenter: john Dunne, C.S.C., Panel members:
Department of Theology Presenter: Regina Call, C.S.J., Facilitator. Mary Vaccaro, rector of Walsh Hall Department of Theology Greg Behr, Notre Dame student, 
8-20/30
Felicia Leon and Dan Driscoll, married couple, 
MINUTE PACKAGES

EACH SESSION WILL INCLUDE: AN EXPERIENCE OF PRAYER • PRESENTATION BY Katie Glynn, Notre Dame student, 
-..
or 

SPEAKER OR PANEL • QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD • REFRESHMENTS joe Ross, C.S.C., rector of Morrissey Hall 
1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
U1ko;.,_,_, llnir <Addn~o~ C.o.:.~ 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka
I 

FEBRUARY 26, MARCH 2, 5, 1995 • KEENAN-STANFORD CHAPEL, 7-8:30 PM 
2n-i'946 

s 9 to B Sdt 9 to l, Sun. I I 5 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 24, 1995 
• BASEBALL 
_..__ 

Irish to open season in California tournament 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Two great college sports pro­grams meet on the baseball di­amond today in the Anaheim llilton and Towers Tournament in Fullerton, California: The University of Texas versus the University of Notre Dame. 
According to new Irish coach Paul Mainieri, this match-up of undefeated teams should be the "marquee" game of the tour­nament. 
That's an optimistic way for 1\tainieri to approach the game, when you consider that base­hall powerhouse Texas is the fourth-ranked team in the na­tion according to Baseball America, sporting a 14-0 record. 
The Irish have zeroes on both sides of the hyphen, though, as Friday's game marks the first time Notre Dame will venture outdoors this season. 
The tournament schedule gets no easie·r for the Irish. Looming Saturday is seventh­rated host Cal-State Fullerton, a perennial baseball power with an 11-2 record this season. Sunday Notre Dame battles Pepperdine, 5-4 and ranked 24th in the country. 
"We're starting off with three 

199 S Baseball Schedule 
February 
~6 vs. Texas 7:00 25 vs. Cal. State-Fullerton 7:00 26 vs. Pepperdine Noon 
March 
3  vs. Washington  7:00  
4  vs. Washington State  7:00  
5  vs. Nevada  10:00  

ll vs. George Washington 7:00 12 vs. Baylor 7:00 
great research••• 
Kapl~ spends over $3 million annually developing 
products and researching the tests. we•ve proved 
that we know the tests inside out. 
-·fS b In 1992, Kaplan predicted the elimination I !;], ' )J""'"''~ of an LSAT question type and changed our ~ ('....-course in anticipation of the change. 

In 1993, the ETS was forced to ":"""~ withdraw a GRE question type because 
~ I ~ 
i......~
• 
·=· 
Through March 31 
13  vs. Nebraska  7:00  
15  vs. Texas-Pan Am (2)  4:00  
16  vs. Texas-Pan Am  2:00  

18 vs. Texas-San Antonio 7:00 21 at Indiana State 3:00 24 at Miami (Fla.) 7:00 25 at Miami (Fla.) 7:00 26 at Miami (Fla.) 1:00 28 at Indiana 3:00 29 BOWLING GREEN 4:00 30 CINCINNATI 4:00 

Kaplan "broke the code." 
In 1994, Kaplan research brought to light security flaws in the computer-based GRE tests. As a result, the ETS temporarily 
;;::~ results. 
Kaplan•s expertise translates into higher scores and greater confidence for our students. Put our research to work for you on test day. 
;.....~ 1-800-KAP·TEST geta higher score 



KAPLAN 
easy ones," says Mainieri face­tiously. "But there's only one Notre Dame; they have to play us." 
The Notre Dame team that will take the field at the Anaheim tournament has some familiar faces from last sea­son's team, who won a fourth straight MCC title and advanced to the NCAA champi­onship round for the third year in a row. 
Junior rightfielder Ryan Topham leads a speedy, power­ful outfield. Topham hit .320 last season and belted a team­high 10 home runs. 
Sophomore Scott Sollman 
comes off an impressive grid­iron season to take over left­field and lead-off responsibili­ties. Sollman led the team with 
a .420 average last season and earned MCC newcomer of the year honors. 
Returning for his second year as captain is senior catcher Bob Lisanti, who batted .267 last season with 17 RBI. 
The other Irish captain is se­nior first baseman Craig DeSensi, who batted .256 last season in just 78 at-bats. 
Sophomore Mike Amrhein batted .297 in 79 at-bats last season, but spent his freshman year playing left-field. 
"These players have waited their turn behind other people," says Mainieri. "They will get their chance this season, and I have no doubt they will be quality contributors." 
Sophomore right-hander Darin Schmalz will start against the Longhorns. Schmalz posted a 4-3 record with a 3.59 ERA last season. Seniors Craig Allen and Tim Kraus will come out of the bullpen and will be relied upon heavily. 
Kraus was expected to be the team's number one pitcher, but he has had tightness in his throwing arm and will start the season in the bullpen. 
Notre Dame Finance Club 
presents: 




FINANCE FOR~ .M 
"M t d ''
...................u......u.a1.................Fu.n......s...... 

Jack A. Koltes 
Alliance Capital Management 

Michael C. Mewhinney 
Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss 

James G. Reilly 
Alliance Capital Management 
Tuesday February 28,1995 7:00PM CCE -1st Floor Auditorium 
-ALL STUDENTS AND FACULTY ARE WELCOME-


Notre Dame Finance Club 



Friday, February 24, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
f\IIRRORLAND HUY NGOC PHAN 
OooPs5! 
\.ALVIN AND HOBBES 
ll01JL~1  IT  '*-C:COL  '{O\l CO\lLI> \3\<t).,\(  
If ~0\J  SI'I£.£.Z£1J  ~1'-l\)  IT Oft '{00\( \="f\Cf.  
1\-\t. SI'RI'-~  fRO\-\ '{O\JR  />..tl-'0 \-\f\'JE  t>. 3-0  
~OS£ \~STI\mL'I  fR()li;.  SC\JLI'T\JRE  Ot  
1~OOR 'SWC.Elt. .  

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 

~------------------~a~====~~~~~==~~ 
8 f"\E.N \-\AVE IT EASIER. uI'/"\ TERRIFIED ABOUT 
OVERALL, I RATED ~ 't'OU'VE. BEEN CONDUlONEO ~
M.Y PEF\FOF\1"\ANCE REVIEW 
YOUR PERFORMANCE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Took the direct M Speaker's prop route 85 Individually
1-cry 
34 Clothing that 

86 Smack hard
&Abated 
goes to waist? 

86 Tropical woe
10Summary 
37 Backs 

69 Peace Nobelist 
14 Alternative to 
38 Metaphor, e.g. Root
pounds 
39 Fastness 70Actress
115"­
41 They may be McClurg
Remember" 
rigged 71 Direct means of
("Fantasticks" song) 43 Authenticating communication symbol 72 Summation
11 Stuff 44 Subject of 73 Escritoire
n Would tolerate 
Genesis 7-8 

no more 19 Country since 
48 Labors 
DOWN

1949 41Cunning 20 Essence 49 Get rich 1 Noted father 21 Famous 
dishonestly and son actors wirehair 52 Five-centime 2 Coastal inlet 22 "Unto us -is piece 3Giaciai given" 53 Transfers aftermath 23 Actress North 57 Shopping aid 4 Put back In the microwave
215 Branch of med. eo Connect 
5 Old English letter 6 Mineral tar 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Column heads 8 Relative of une 
province 9Senility 26 In the time left 
'=t'?+.::-E-Ei 10 Queen 28 Sister of Urania Elizabeth and 29 Professional others org. 
~~:.e~~~ 11 "Mila 18" author 
30 Hand-dyed 12 Product of the 
fabric coco yam 31 Antagonists 13 Telephone 
32 Shade of blue company 33Bank employees 34 Not operating 18 Opposite of 315 Machete ~:-+.::-+:-i baldness 38 Dietary 
~~~+:-"="+~ 24 Region near supplement ancient 40Conforms Palestine 42 Bob, for one 

Friday 9:00 LaFortune 
:I wONf)fR WUifT TH( 
!)iff!A.€tJ~ Be'TW£,rJ 
\IJ 1'1 ooPs IWD ooofl>.s is ? 
BILL WATTERSON 





45Mil. honor 56 "Who steals my 47 Pegasus, e.g. purse steals trash" speaker 
so Narc's target 51 Timorous 
59 Rabbit's tail 54 Parenthetical 61 Pier foundation comment 62 Suffix with idiom 55 Jeans 63 Okinawa port 56 Smooth 
67 Means of 57 Wife of Jacob identification 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN MCPHERSON 

2·Z"' 

\ 
"You let that cavity go far too long." 
• OF INTEREST 
••Eleemosynary", A play by Lee Blessing, and di­rected by Cara Conway will be performed tonight and tomorrow night at 8 p;m. in the lab theatre of Washing­ton Hall. Elisabeth Heard, Henee Daffron, and Beth Kueter Star in this play about 3 generations of women. 
Mod Quad Mass will celebrated this Sunday at 4 
p.m. at Stepan. Come and share your faith with kids from South Bend. Bring a blanket and a friend. 
Fr. Graham McDonnell from Good Shepherd Movement (Teaching in Japan) will be on campus at the Center for Social Concerns on Monday, February 27. 
•MENU Notre Dame 
SOUTH DINING HALL Shrimp Poppers Brocccoli-Cheese-Rice Casserole Turkey Steak Mozz. Sandwich 
NORTH DINING HALL Cheese Sticks w/ Spaghetti Sauce Roast Pork Loin CodQJ. Salsa 
St. Mary's 
Chicken Fajitas Breaded Catllsh Fillets Yankee Pot Roast 
Celebrate a 

friend's birthday with a special 

-

Observer ad. 
~~~~  ~  
~~  That's  ~  .§  
~ right, FREE ~ ~LAUNDRY on Saturday~  ~ t:  

~ and Sunday, so bring all ~ ~ 
your dirty undies and those a_=old gym socks from ~= 
...-: freshman year. ~ ; ~~ 
lOam to Spm ~ ~ 
... l~Cl~~ i 


SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, Februauy 24, 1995 

• IEteAt BOUTs 

Notre Dame faces Top Ten foes Quarterfinal No. 9 Michigan State, card gets a No. 2 Michigan visit 
new twist 

Joyce Center By MIKE NORBUT Associate Sports Editor 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Spons Writer 
Six weeks of training have finally come down to this.

From extreme jubilation to severe 
The price was hours of running,

anxiety. 
thousands of pushups and millions ofThat is the type of roller coaster ride jumping jacks. 

the Notre Dame hockey team has been The reward is 4 1/2 minutes in a ringon for the last two weeks. 
throwing leather. 

Following an impressive two game 82 fighters separated into twelve dif­sweep of Ohio State on February 10­ferent weight divisions will compete11, the Irish have had the last 13 days 
Sunday as the quarterfinals of theto think about national powers 

Bengal Mission Bouts open on the main Michigan and Michigan State. 

floor of the Joyce Athletic Center at 2

Despite coming off their best perfor­mance of the season, Notre Dame p.m. 
"We've tried to get some real goodknows they will have to be connecting fights," senior captain and two-timeon all cylinders to have any chance of champion Jeff Goddard said. "There'spulling off a pair of upsets when they some really good divisions here. Lotsvisit Michigan State tonight and host of people are pretty equal." 

Michigan on Saturday. 
The large number of boxers between"We will have to be at our absolute 

The Observer/ Eric Ruethling 150 and 160 pounds necessitated the

best to beat one of the top teams," said 
Goalie Matt Salzman played above himself against Michigan last year. 
freshman goaltender Matt Eisler. "It would be a great boost for the pro­
see BOUJS I page 17 gram if we were able to come away 
-_ .Fac~~~a. F-E~~tt__ :_!3W_--g_-~-~-M_ __ f:l_·_;;.• I~,_ Fa~~~-~--1~;~~-rc_da_e__
._ ~--~ ___ --~__ t_e_~--7-:30p._m_._
with a victory." 
Seres: MS,:U li::t\tls _33.,27~3 · Series: Michigini Leads38.o35-2 

BEST MATCHUf 

Mtke Day's Pn:k: · MSU6-4 ·. Mike Day's Pick: Michigan 7-3 Michigan State off their feet for two 
The Irish played heavily favorited 
: . ' :.:·:_::~~;_:~:~-~~-·· ...,·.· ·:_._ ...~~·i . ;::, .. ·::, .-~~~-:-~:~:-..~--. 
periods in their last meeting on ,, Outlook: The Sp~:ftans are coming offtheit'worst game of the year.-The Irish 
January 20. The score stood at 3-3 
defense must try to-shut down the nation's second leading scorer Anson Carter. The 
UPSET SPECIAL

only prayer for the Irish on Saturday is that the Wolverines play uninspired hockey 
after 40 minutes of play before the 
having already cinched the CCHA title. Michigan has manhandled Notre Dame 12-2 
2p.m.

and 9-3 so far this season. -Ob -1Rob B 11 h
t ·he server ert o man r.

see IRISH I page 19 
JoyceACC 



k most Marquette men's basketball fans and they'll 
ell you the same thing: if God were a point guard e would be Tony Miller. 
Miller has been the savior for the once Warrior and now Golden Eagle program. He came to a struggling team with­out a true point guard and stepped in right away, and 113 consecutive starts later has led his team to two straight NCAA appearances. 
This Saturday at 4:00 pm in front of a national audience and a packed JACC, Miller and his resurgent Golden Eagles will look to avenge last year's loss to the ready and waiting Fightin' Irish of Notre Dame. 
Miller will look to control the tempo and do what he does best. record the assist. He enters the game as the 12th all­time NCAA assist leader with 867, and only one of 18 Division I players to record over 800 assists. He has led his class in assists as a freshman, sophomore and a junior. This class includes Tyrus Edney, Damon Stoudamire and Travis Best. 
nationally ranked Warriors, but His career average of 7. 70 assists per game ranks 11th on 
this season the Golden Eagles 

the NCAA Division I all-time list. This average is better that
(14-1 0) will not be taken by 

former players Bobby Hurley, Sherman Douglas, Pooh
surprise. For the Irish to come away with avictory they will need 
Richardson and Tyrone "Muggsy" Bogues. Last season he to shoot well from the outside as ranked second behind Jason Kidd with 8.3 assists per game. ateam. Defensively the Irish will "I believe I rank up there with Stoudamire, Edney and 
need to hurry back on defense as the like to run with the ball. 

of note...

Baseball Opens Season 
The Women's Basketball team 

Notre Dame baseball opens its 1995 season this weekend at the Anaheim Hilton Towers 
defeated Northern Illinois last Baseball Classic in Fullerton, California 
night, 58-51. For details see see page 22 
Monday's Observer. 
BASEBALL 

-
I 
I 
I 
I 
r 





