
Wednesday, September 20, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No.23 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
President appoints Ghilarducci 
Special to the Observer 
Teresa Ghilarducci, associate professor of economics at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed by President Clinton to 
the advisory committee of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC). 
Ghilarducci will repre­

sent employ­ee organizations as one of three new appointees on the live-person advisory panel. 
The PBGC is a federal agency created in 197 4 under the Em­ployee Retirement Income Se­curity Act to guarantee pay­ment of basic pension benefits earned by more than 41 mil­lion American workers and retirees participating in 58,000 private-sector defined benefit pnnsion plans. 
"The new members bring extensive pension expertise to the advisory committee," said 
U.S. Secretary of Labor Robert Heich, chairman of PBGC's board of directors. 
"We look to their sound L'l>Unsel as we work to assure that retirement promises to our nation's working men and women are kept," he said. 
As a member of the PBGC's advisory committee, Ghilar­ducci will provide counsel on policies and procedures of the corporation's investments and trusteeship of terminated plans, as well as on other mat­ters determined by the board. 
A specialist in pension policy, Ghilarducci holds bachelor's and doctoral degrees in eco­nomies from the University of California, Berkeley. 
She is a board member of the Higgins Center for Labor research at Notre Dame and is the author of the award-win­ning book, "Labor's Capital: The Economics and Politics of Private Pensions." 

Louganis reveals personal trauma 

Olympic diver recounts struggle as gay athlete 
By KELLY FITZPATRICK 
News Writer 

"The truth shall set you free," was the phrase that gave diver Greg Louganis the courage to reveal his homosexuality. 
The Olympic gold medalist tested positive for HIV in 1988, and was consequently forced to disclose his sexual orientation to his family and coach. In front of a large crowd at Stepan Center last night, Louganis recounted some of his struggles with his sexuality and illness. 
Burdened with a speech impediment as a child, Louganis decided to pour his energy into physical activity. Clearly, his efforts were not for naught-some of his near-per­fect dives were captured on the video that opened the lecture. 
While some may find it diffi­cult to imagine the trials Louganis had to overcome in the world of athletics, the diver told of hearing things like 'Nobody wants to room with the fag.' And he saw signs reading ·fag' in a circle with a line drawn through it, when travel­ing with his teammates. His agents and managers also forced to hide his true identity, according to Louganis. 
"You weren't encouraged to be yourself, to be open," he said. 
The secret of his sexual ori­entation and HIV status finally proved too much to bear alone, Louganis said, and after his accident during competition in the 1988 Olympic Games, he knew that he needed support. So he confided in his coach Ron O'Brien, who he said helped him find the strength to come back to win two gold medals after suffering a serious head 
see LOUGANIS I page 4 


A Fresher South Quad! 
A Notre Dame facilities employee cleans up some sewage on South Quad, giving relief to many South Quad students. 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Greg Louganis lectured last night at Stepan Center on topics such as athletics and homophobia, HIV and AIDS awareness, and the overall difficulties related with announcing one's sexuality. 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 


ND debit card debate continues in Council 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
News Writer 
The debate over the introduc­tion of a debit card at Notre Dame continued last night at the Hall Presidents Council's meeting. 
The current idea for the debit card is to present it to the stu­dent body as an option that would encompass their meal plan, ATM needs and bookstore credit. HPC Co-Chairs Matt Schlatter and Kristin Beary stressed that the plan will be optional and is still in its early stages. 
The current plan also has other stages of implementation, including the use of the debit card to purchase football tick­ets and to supplement meals in the Huddle for meals in the dining halls. 
After it was revealed that the use of the card would probably cost more than the current meal plan does, various hall presidents voiced their con­cerns over the debit card. 
Matt Karr and Matt Hoefling, co-presidents of Stanford Hall, reminded the IIPC that many students would continue to be charged for meals they would not eat when eating off-cam­pus. They also voiced concern of how well explained the plan would be to students. 
The cost of placing new hardware into the dining halls in order to use the debit cards was also raised. Many mem­bers voiced concern over whether or not the increase in price of the debit card's meal plan would pay for the new hardware or just be another 
see HPC I page 4 


Media questions publishing of Unabomber manifesto 
By MITCHELL LANDSBERG 
Associared Press 
NEW YORK 

Journalists will argue for years about the agonizing deci­sion by The New York Times and The Washington Post to publish the 35,000-word mani­festo of the terrorist known as the Unabomber. 
In the din of debate Tuesday, though, there was one patch of quiet agreement. Editors and scholars around the country shared a sense of relief that they weren't the ones on the hot seat. 
''I'm glad, as most editors in the country are, that it wasn't my decision to make," said Sandra Mims Rowe, editor of The Oregonian in Portland. She added: "I think they made the right decision." 
"I instinctively oppose it," said Doug Clifton, executive editor of The Miami Herald. Still, he added, ··'it's a heck of a lot easier to say that in the ab­stract. ... They have had to deal with a real situation, while the rest of us are dealing with a theoretical one." 
In the theoretical debate, the lines were drawn between those who said the two news­papers were acting in the pub­lic interest, and those who said the Times and Post had sacri­ficed their journalistic indepen­dence and set a dangerous precedent by caving in to a killer and extortionist. 
The Unabomber, who is blamed for killing three people and injuring 23 others in a 17­year campaign of bombings, 
Manifesto excerpt 
The following was taken from the Unabomber's text that was published by TheNew York Times and The Washington Post on Tuesday. 
INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION The Industrial Revolution and its consequences have 
sent the manuscript to the Times and Post in June, two months after issuing a demand: If at least one of the newspa­pers would print his manifesto, he would stop killing. 
He also demanded that the newspapers print three annual follow-up publications. 
He gave the newspapers a 
been a disaster for the human race. They have greatly increased the IU'e expectancy of those of us who live in "advanced" countries, but they have destabilized society, have made life unfulfilling, have subjected human beings 
see EXCERPT I page 4 

three-month deadline. Five days short of the deadline, the Post published a special, eight­page section in Tuesday's edi­tions containing the entire text of the Unabomber's essay on the evils of industrialization. The section was published un­der an agreement by both the Post and Times, and paid for by 
the two newspapers jointly. The Post estimated the cost at $30,000 to $40,000. 
The publishers of the news­papers, Donald Graham of the Post and Arthur Sulzberger Jr. of the Times, said they had agreed to print the manifesto at the urging of Attorney General Janet Heno and FBI Director Louis Freeh. 
"Neither paper would have printed this document for jour­nalistic reasons," Graham said in the Post. "We thought there was an obvious public safety is­sue involved and therefore sought the advice of responsible federal officials. We are print­ing it for public safety reasons, not journalistic reasons." 
That made sense to some edi­
see PUBLISHED I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, September 20, 1995 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Signs, signs, everyw-here
•


s1gn_s__ 
It was a crisp September afternoon Oast Friday, actually). I was in a Pearl Jam kind of mood, and I was cruising down the lonely highway heading home for the wedding of one ()f my best friends from high school. My radio, not bolstered by the luxury tape deck of my dreams, faded in and out every hour or so. Never did the Pearl Jam that I so longed for drift across the lazy air. Instead, I was tor­mented by the eighties hits of my youth and the fifties hits of my mother's youth. 
In such an exciting environment, it's easy to understand why my mind would wander. My eyes strove to the side of the road for some entertainment, some sort of bastion of inspi­ration, some sort of haven for my boredom. Alas, my weary head found a type of lone intellectual repartee in the underappreciated arts for the solemn trucker: billboards and street signs. 
I suppose one of the first signs that truly caught my attention was one of those brilliant "Watch your speed -We are" postings fea­turing a well illustrated police car and heli­copter. I felt somehow comforted that Big Brother was looking out for me as I pressed the speedometer to healthy new levels. I was certain that the exact color of yellow of the background of this particular sign had been painstakingly chosen, leaVing several less bril­liant and less reflective tones in its wake. The message was brilliant in its simplicity. Finding the depictions of police vehicles so realistic, I found myself often playing one of my favorite road games: Spot the cop. 
I found my favorite billboard less than two 
hours out of town. The simple black base 
gave it a classy tone which surpassed that of 
those tawdry white monstrosities. A figure, 
drawn in white, yellow and pink, exhibited a 
sort of "Mesolithic on LSD" feel to it; the hair 
stood on end, the mouth was a mere wavy 
line, and the eyes were two slash marks. The 
work, captioned "Shocking! Don't touch 
power cables!" was obviously meant as a reli­
gious work. The figure itself acts as a sort of 
intercessor between the picture and the 
observer, showing the proper reaction to the 
slogan and allowing the consumer of the work 
to actually enter the frame. I truly felt as if I 
should weep to show proper reverence. 
Not all of the art I experienced on my trip 
was as enervating as these two works. 
Norm's Sports Shop, one of the many places 
I'm never tempted to stop on my way home, 
features a myriad of advertisements. All, in 
some manner, involve weapons and boast 
such wonders as "Yes, we trade!" and "Large 
selection of guns." These, along with the 
blase "Signals Ahead" signs which fail to indi­
cate what sort of signal await and creativity­
impaired "The Oaks -A living center" board 
featuring an obvioulsly idealized landscape 
portrait, fail to impress upon me any feeling 
of any depth of emotion or expression of 
truth. It's really like trying to sell a gas mask 
to a moose. 
In general, I found the allure of "road art" 
to be compelling. It works hard to convey its 
message in a sort of casual simplicity while 
simultaneously transferring to the sharp mind 
a defmitive complexity of spirit. I have thusly 
gained a true respect for those artists who 
accept the challenge of the medium, audience, 
and topic, and I shall work hard to become a 
true aficionado of this underappreciated cul­
ture. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Tom Snider  
Mark Huffman  Productian  
Sports  Kristi Kolski  
Mike Day  Allison Fashek  
Joe Villinski  Lab Tech  
Graphics  Brandon Candura  
Zoe Marin  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT AGLANCE ThP. weekend • __
Internet software has security flaws 

mov1es
SAN FRANCISCO a week that can be down-loaded from Netscape Communications Corp., its web site (http://home.netscape. 
Weekend of September 15-17 

provider of the most popular software com). 
All dollar figures in millions 

program for navigating the Internet, is Homer said the company was not 
Gross to date, weeks in Weekend release, number of screens gross

fixing a security flaw that could give aware of any security breaches. hackers access to sensitive informa­An estimated 8 million users, includ­
· To Wong Foo, Thanks for $6.6 
• Everything! Julie Newmar

tion, including credit card numbers. ing thousands of companies, use Wall Street, which had given Netscape software for advertising and 
; . ~~8~ ~-~'~~-~·-1:4_:4!l_~r~ Netscape stock a big sendoff last sales. Some use the programs to check 
8 
Clockers $4.5 if' w;? $5.4, 1.5 weeks, 1,208 screens

month, pushed stock prices down balances and for catalog shopping. slightly at the news of the flaw, but Customers give their credit card Jf:!lt. Dange~us Minds $3.4 they recovered by midafternoon today. numbers to companies that provide 
·c:M,, $67.4, SIX weeks, 1,588 SC!eens Two University of California at on-line services so they can be billed 
..•..., Hackers $3.2Berkeley graduate students. Ian automatically each month. •il •. ,. $3.2, one week. 1,812 screens Goldberg, 22 and David Wagner, 21, Netscape has about three-fourths of 
' 1:: The Usual Suspects $3

found that a knowledgeable computer the Web-browsing market, but soon 
1\gl/ $12.4, FJVe weeks, 874 screens 

user could break the program's coding could face competition from Microsoft. 
system in less than a minute. Netscape began publicly trading its The students' findings were pub­shares last month, and had one of the lished on a computer mailing list on most successful debuts in Wall Street 
$2.26 

the Internet's World Wide Web on history. partly because of the compa­Sunday evening, said Mike Homer, ny's assurances about security. 
p,. Angus $1.91

vice president of Netscape marketing. As word of the security flaw began 1
•;. y0 $1.91,oneweek, 1.154SC!eens "We regularly monitor these news circulating, Netscape stock dropped 75 ---------------------------­
groups and, when we saw it, we had cents Monday. Netscape opened down ' t~.1t B$48abe1 ·~~weeks 1635 screens $1.8S
.~1 .,~QJI

our engineers work on it immediate­an additional $3.50 today, but by late 
11 ly," Homer said late Monday. afternoon was up 75 cents from $1.7 The company said it would release a Monday's close at $53.25 a share on repaired version of the software within the Nasdaq Stock Market. 
Source: Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc. AP 
Newt to New York: I'm sorry, sort of Teen won't be charged for flag abuse 
NEW YORK OKLAHOMA CITY 
Holding a big red apple aloft, House 
A teen-ager who was arrested after an Army veteran Speaker Newt Gingrich said today that saw him clean his car's dipstick with a U.S. flag will not if he offended New Yorkers, he's sorry be charged, a prosecutor said Tuesday. Although a 1971 -but not all that much. "I love New Oklahoma law makes flag desecration a felony, the U.S. York," he said. "The people are won­Supreme Court has decided that such statutes violate derful, it's a great place to visit, a won­Americans' right to free expression. "As reprehensible derful place to have a career, but there as most of us may find it to be, there's clearly a long line are some major things that need to be of appellate decisions protecting an individual's right," improved." In town to discuss · said assistant District Attorney Lee Cates, who decided Medicare with a business group, Gingrich said he mis­not to file charges. Police officers from Moore, a suburb spoke when he ripped the city government as "a culture of Oklahoma City, arrested the 17 -year-old boy Thursday of waste for which they expect us to send a check. I after he raised his car hood at a convenience store and spoke too broadly and too sloppily," he said, though "I used a full-size American flag to clean oil from the dip­think my comments are things that most New Yorkers stick. Defense attorney C.S. Thornton wouldn't say agree with." On Monday, Gingrich apologized to Mayor whether the boy intended to make a statement, or if he Rudolph Giuliani. His fellow Republican said the Georgia had used the flag this way previously. "I think it's quite congressman "did not mean to go as far as he went." clear he was deprived of his liberties," said Thornton, The mayor was looking on the bright side: "Maybe this who took the case for the American Civil Liberties Union. can help move us to a higher level of understanding. "My client maintains that he did nothing wrong and I Washington has to start taking a different view of us." agree With him completely." 
Popcorn king Redenbacher dies at 88 Hormel sees no humor in new Muppet 
CORONADO, Calif. NEW YORK 
Orville Redenbacher, a onetime county agriculture The jokes, the insults, the singing SPAMETTES, the agent who developed a multimillion-dollar line of SPAM sculpture contest at the annual SPAM Jamboree­gourmet popcorn and became a TV advertising star, was they were one thing. But putting a wild pig in a Muppets found dead in his apartment today. He was 88. He was movie and calling him Spa' am-that's the last straw for 
found in his bathtub around 6 a.m., said Coronado City the Hormel Foods Corp. The newest Muppet -Spa'am Manager Homer Bludau. The cause and time of death -is making his debut in a somber setting, a Manhattan were under investigation by the Medical Examiner's courtroom where grim-faced lawyers debate whether his Office. Redenbacher, known for his trademark glasses role in a movie will spoil the public's appetite for SPAM 
and bow tie, was an advertising spokesman who was also luncheon meat. The trial this week features Hormel, The Real Thing: an agribusinessman and scientist who SPAM's maker, against Jim Henson Productions, maker worked at improving lines of corn for years before he of Spa'am, high priest of the wild boars who worship began selling gourmet popcorn on TV. He estimated he Miss Piggy as their Queen Boom Sha-Ka-La-Ka-La. cross-bred 30,000 hybrids over 40 years before coming SPAM luncheon meat made its debut in 1937. Spa'am is up with his own gourmet line. "He's been one of the due to make his formal debut in February in the newest greatest forces for promoting popcorn. It'll be a great Muppet movie, "The Muppets Treasure Island." But on loss," said William E. Smith, executive director of the Monday. video clips from the movie were shown in court Chicago-based Popcorn Institute, who knew Redenbacher after U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood rejected a request for 43 years. "Many people thought he was a media cre­from Jim Henson lawyers to have it shown privately ation, but what people saw on television, that was him." because the movie was not yet released. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAl. WEATHER Wednesday, Sept. 20 
Accu-Weather~forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather~forecast for noon, Wednesday, Sept. 20. 
60s 
70s 
80s 90S 100s 90s 
FRONTS: 
........................................... 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Pl'fltl8ure ~ 
H L m &S1 lnl 0 !Z3§~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FL.URRIES SNOW ICE CLOUDY 
Vla~l.a~ 

Manta 86 61 Dallas 75 67 New Orleans 88 71 Baltimore 74 56 Denver 40 37 New York 72 59 Boston 60 55 Los Angeles 89 67 Philadelphia 75 59 Chicago 57 53 Miami 90 74 Phoenix 101 75 Columbus 74 57 Minneapolis 56 35 St. Louis 65 56 
Wednesday, September 20, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 


SMC landscapes Regina Hall 
By ERIN MARTIN 
News Writer 
Sophomores, juniors, and seniors at Saint Mary's College have most likely noticed a change in the land­scaping surrounding Regina Hall. 
Over the summer, landscap­ing re-sponsibilities changed from the Sisters of the Holy Cross to Saint Mary's College. 
Up until this summer, Saint Mary's College was leasing the land around Hegina from the Sisters, who had always taken care of the land. 
But now that the college owns it, the new hands are 
Grounds Superintendent Mark Kubacki and his crew. 
Freshmen may have never seen the old Regina landscap­ing, which is quite different from the new look. 
The statue of Mary used to be surrounded by thick bush­es eight to ten feet high, but they are now gone allowing students to easily view the statue. 
Bushes that once covered the windows were stripped, and new grass as well as white pines were planted. 
Six more trees will be plant­ed, three on either side of the main entrance. In the spring, flowers will be planted to add color. 
Currently the grounds crew is cleaning up and preparing for finishing touches. 
The changes around Regina were made with the wishes and safety of the students in mind, according to Kubacki. 
"There were too many bushes," Kubacki said. 
"We left some to hide the parking lot," he said of those along the lot in front of Regina. 
At the end of September, students will be able to view before and after pictures of the landscaping in the lobby of Regina. 
Kubacki's crew consists of Lamar Grady, Dave Coleman, Lance Towne, Ellen Dettmer and John Stephenson. 


Pope: Ethnic conflicts 'still fester' 
By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press 
NAIROBI, Kenya 

The threat of more ethnic butchery "hovers like a cloud" over Hwanda and Burundi as the spirit of revenge overshad­
ows reconcil­iation, Pope John Paul II warned Tuesday. 
"Today we think with sadness the terrible 


ethnic con-John Paul II flicts that still fester, having taken so many innocent lives," John Paul said at a Mass that attracted 350,000 people, the largest crowd of his African tour. 
He spoke from a thatch­roofed altar overlooking a Nairobi park. 
The pope, on his third visit to Kenya in 15 years, urged "for­giveness and reconciliation" between Hutus and Tutsis, the main ethnic rivals in Rwanda and Burundi. 
"This is the only way to dissi­pate the threat of ethnocen­trism that hovers like a cloud over Africa -ethnocentrism that has so brutally hit Rwanda and Burundi." 
The pope made no mention of accusations by human rights groups that priests and nuns in Rwanda actively engaged in last year's genocide. 
An estimated 500,000 people were killed, mostly Tutsis. At least 1.8 million refugees still live in surrounding nations. 
In Burundi, an estimated 100,000 people have been slain since 1993 after the first Hutu president was killed in a Tutsi­backed coup. 
Scattered fighting persists. 
"To hear the pope even speak about our nation gives me a lit­tle hope," said Louis Olouboye, a Hwandan who fled to Kenya when the fighting began. 
The pope was greeted by native singers and a group of girls doing a synchronized dance at the Mass, the last of the six-day trip that included Cameroon and South Africa. 
The dancers wrapped cloth around their short skirts before the pope arrived. 
Crowds surged toward the area under the altar. 
A few managed to get past security forces, who used clubs and mounted patrols to drive people back. 
A lamb, chosen for its spot­less white fleece, was blessed by the pontiff and is to be re­turned to the flock. 
In his 20-minute homily ­and in later comments to clergy -the pope concentrated on the importance of the family in African life. 
He avoided direct reference to the recent feuds between the Kenyan clergy and President Daniel arap Moi, who sat with dignitaries under a canopy on the side of the altar during the 


Thursday and Friday September 21-22, 1995 College of Business Administration 
Lower Level 
Interstate 94 pileup claims four victims 
Associated Press 
ST. JOSEPH, Mich. 
Four people died Tuesday in a fiery traffic pileup near a road construction area along eastbound Interstate 94, police said. 
Killed in the accident were: Robert Claudon, 65, of Bridg­
.man; Althea Anderson, 33, of Baroda; Leroy Hampton, 70, of Sawyer; and Rick Baadsgaard, 41, of Chesterton, Ind., state police said. 
The four victims were travel­ing in separate cars, state Trooper John Norvell said. The interstate was closed east-
Mass. But he clearly echoed his ear­lier appeals for a bolder clergy. "Where there is oppression, seek justice," he said. 
Bishops have issued a series of letters accusing Moi's gov­ernment of corruption, rights abuses and stifling political op­position since taking office in 1978. 
The government has warned the clergy to stay out of political affairs or risk arrest. 
The pope also made no refer­ence to a boycott of his visit by some Muslim leaders, who claim the Vatican seeks to spread its faith across all of Africa. 
Not all Muslims backed the protest and some attended the Mass. 
About 14 percent of Africa's 700 million people are Roman Catholic. But about 23 percent of Kenya's 25 million people are Roman Catholic while only 6 percent are Muslim. 
At a meeting with East African clergy, the pope said the Church must act as a coun­terweight to the widespread problems in Africa. 


bound from the time of the accident at 8:30 a.m. until 5 
p.m. Tuesday. Investigators were on the scene until about 7 p.m. trying to determine the cause. State police had said there were no weather prob­lems. The accident involved two tractor-trailer trucks and four passenger vehicles, and occurred as traffic was slowing down for a construction zone. 
"There are a couple of theo­ries. But the best guess is that a semi came into a construc­tion zone at a high rate of speed and started kind of a chain of events that resulted in the accident," Norvell said. 
' 
,_
Amcncan llcart ~ Association••'V' 
FIQhflnQ 11fi1Jr1 D1seas• andS/rnkll 
Research gave him a future 


-------~-~ ~------------­
page4 -The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 20, 1995 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
way for the University to make some money. 
This open dicussion of a pressing topic was lauded by many members who questioned the HPC's role in student affairs. 
Beary stated that the HPC should not just be a tool for the Senate and the Campus Life Council in providing informa­tion to the student body. Most members concurred that the HPC should also formulate ideas and discuss them, not necessarily after the Senate and CLC do, but before. 

Karr and Hoefling brought up the point that the HPC meets every week while the CLC and the Senate meet once every two weeks. This gives the HPC the opportunity to not only discuss the issues before these groups, but also to get the opinions of the students body. 
Karr and Hoefling mentioned that since the HPC is the only one of the three groups directly elected by the student body, the students feel a closer connec­tion to them and can discuss ideas with them through dorm meetings. 
In other HPC news: 

• The dates for fall dances were discussed for a second week in a row. 11 dorms will have dances on October 6, al­though the Morrissey and Pangborn formal will be held as a joint dance between the two dorms. 
• 
It was announced that 3,000 kazoos will be passed out in dorms on Friday. The kazoos are an effort to counteract the cowbells that Texas fans plan to use during Saturday's football game. About 700 kazoos will be passed out to each class. 

• 
On Friday, a banner read­ing "You are in Our Hearts For­ever" signed by Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will 


be given to Coach Lou Holtz during the pep rally. 
Students can submit personal wishes to Coach Hultz in the form of hand written letters on 81/2 x 11 pieces of paper to be submitted to the student gov­ernment office on the second floor of LaFortune or the library concourse from 7-9 p.m., either today or tomorrow. 
• Sorin Hall will be having a talent show for a half hour Fri­day night during the pep rally. 
Louganis 
continued from page 1 

injury. 
In his lecture, Louganis recounted his coming out. 

Last year, when he was pre­sented with an award for his involvement in social causes through athletics, he received the award in honor of Tom O'Dell, the founder of the Gay Games and revealed his sexual­ity. He was greeted with shock from most of the coaches, ath­letes, and Olympic sponsors in the audience. But, Louganis said, he only needed the high five that Jackie Joyner gave him to renew his confidence in the decision he had made. 
The process of "coming out" is not an easy one, according to Louganis. 
"The first person you have to come out to, is yourself," he said. Telling loved ones that he was HIV positive was no less difficult. The Olympic diver a.Jided that when he told his mother of his HIV status, she simply said, 'You've beaten so many odds, you're probably going to outlive me anyway, so I have nothing to worry about.' 
Unconditional support such as that from his mother was scarce, according to Louganis, and during the time that he was struggling to end his rela­tionship with an abusive lover, his father was diagnosed with cancer. Never truly close, the father and son fmally formed a 
friendship while Louganis cared for his dying father. Yet, it was not until he was near death that Louganis' father offered his acceptance of his son's identity. 
According to Louganis, his main source of support was his therapist, Stan Ziegler, whose untimely death left him tem­porarily feeling lost and isolat­ed. However, Louganis' work with the co-author of his book, Eric Marcus, brought him renewed strength. 

Louganis said that he has also found solace in his involve­ment with the plays, "Jeffery", and "The Only Worse Thing You Could Have Told Me... ," both dealing with gay life. Through these works, Louganis has been given the opportunity to confront some of his fears. 
"I died every night of a dis­ease that is probably going to kill me," he said of starring in "Jeffery." 
Members of · Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GLND/SMC) responded to Louganis' lecture. 
According to GLND/SMC Co­Chair Samantha Shannon, though much of Louganis' experience consisted of the negative side of homosexuality, his presence at Notre Dame was "the only way to keep these issues in the public eye." 
Shannon does not think that University administration will ever soften their position towards the gay and lesbian community without increased pressure from alumni and other groups. However, she felt that the lecture addressed many topics that the adminis­tration will have to deal with. 
John Blandford, also co-chair of GLND/SMC, said that the pos­itive reaction to Louganis' speech "shows that people are open to discussing these issues," and that any tool that can be used to help people understand the difficulties of living with HIV and AIDS is 
needed. 

Some of the students that attended the event agreed that the administration would not change their position to recog­nize GLND/SMC for fear of los­ing funds. 
Planner sophomore Jason Sanks added that the adminis­trators are the "puppets of rich alumni." Increased support of GLND/SMC issues will not affect the University's refusal to grant official recognition to the 
Women's Resource Center 





OPEN HOUSE 
•Today f~om 3 to 6 pm • 
*~ef~eshments will be se~ved* 
group, he said. 

Louganis said his speaking tour will increase awareness and educate people about homosexuality and the AIDS virus. 
In his closing statement, Louganis said, "It has been an incredible journey to be stand­ing before you and say, 'I'm Greg Louganis, I'm gay, and I'm living with HIV."' 
Published 
continued from page 1 
tors and scholars. 

William Ketter, editor of The Patriot Ledger of Quincy, Mass., and president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, said he probably would have done the same. "I worry about the implications of the decision, of course, but I can't fault the newspapers for cooperating with the Justice Department. ... I don't think it's unlike the history of the press in this country cooperating with the government during wartime, because the national interest and the lives and American soldiers could be at stake." John Seigenthaler, a former editor and publisher who now heads a news industry think tank in Nashville, The Freedom Forum First Amendment Center, called the decision "a sad precedent" that was unavoidable under the circumstances. 

Excerpt 
continued from page 1 

to indignities, have led to wide­spread psychological suffering (in the Third World to physical suffering as well) and have inflicted severe damage on the natural world. The continued development of technology will worsen the situation. 
It will certainly subject human beings to greater in­dignities and inflict greater damage on the natural world, it will probably lead to greater social disruption and psychological suffering, and it may lead to increased physical suffering even in "advanced" countries.... We therefore advocate a revolution against the industrial system. This rev­olution may or may not make use of violence; it may be sud­den or it may be a relatively gradual process spanning a few decades. We can't predict any of that. But we do outline in a very general way the measures that those who hate the indus­trial system should take in order to prepare the way for a 
, ReeSports 

a:o~l:l.lne· 
-.-a•-~ E~ 
Facility Info. •Upcoming El·ents_ • Game Delays 
revolution against that form of society. This is not to be a polit­ical revolution. Its object will be to overthrow not govern­ments but the economic and technological basis of the pre­sent society .... 
POLITICAL CORRECTNESS 
AND "LEFTISM" 
When we speak of leftists in this article we have in mind mainly socialists, collectivists, "Politically correct" types, fem­inists, gay and disability ac­tivists, animal-rights activists and the like .... 
The two psychological ten­dencies that underlie modern leftism we call feel~ngs of infe­riority and oversocialization. 
Feelings of inferiority are characteristic of modern left­ism as a whole, while oversocialization is characteris­tic only of a certain segment of modern leftism; but this seg­ment is highly influential. ... 
Political correctness has its stronghold among university professors, who have secure employment with comfortable salaries, and the majority of whom are heterosexual white males from middle to upper middle-class families. 


The Investment Banking Division 
of 



Goldman, Sachs & Co. 
Invites the students ofthe University of Notre Dame to an information session on careers in investment banking. 
All undergraduates are welcome to attend. 
Thursday, September 21 6:30-8:30 p.m. 
WRC fall hot1~s: SV\nday-ThV\~sday 

3 to 9pm 
Main Lounge, University Club 


---~~ ---~----­
1 I 
' 1 
Wednesday, September 20, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 


Bosnian, Croat troops make move, take towns 


Sophomores -Juniors -Seniors 
. ~ .~ ·'· . 


AllMajatS 
Tuesday Evening, September 26 Atrium New College of Business Building 
Army incursion poses another threat to Serbs 
By AIDA CERKEZ 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 

Bosnian Serbs faced a new threat from the north today af­ter a cross-border incursion of the Croatian army rrioved toward the rebel stronghold of Banja Luka. 
Croatia's army, which has played a key role in the lighting in western Bosnia, moved south across the border overnight, taking the towns of Bosanska Kostajnica and Bosanska Dubica, the Slobodna Dalmacia newspaper said. 
At the same time, Bosnian army troops in the northwest­ern Bihac region moved east to retake Bosanski Novi, the newspaper said. 
They claimed to have taken Sanski Most, 25 miles west of Banja Luka, but Serbs appeared to be holding the town today. 
U.N. spokesman Chris Gun­ness confirmed a cross-border Croatian attack, but said it was not clear how far the Croatian soldiers advanced. The United 1\iations l"!a,s no presence on the ground in the region. 
Hours later, State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said in Washington that the Bosnian and Croatian presidents had indicated to a U.S. mediator that their forces will cease the offensive against Banja Luka. 
Burns said he had no details on the talks between U.S. envoy Hichard Holbrooke, Croatian President Franjo Tudjman and Bosnian President Alija lzetbe­After meeting today with 
govic. Tudjman, Foreign Secretary Government-Croat forces close on Banja Luka 
But he said there was "a Malcolm Rifkind of Britain said D Bosnian government-Croat federation IIIli Croat-Serb and Bosnian-Serb # Land taken direct indication" that the of­he was told the Croats already fensive would be halted and had "stopped taking part in that there would be a general military operations." 
CROATIA

slowdown in military action Croat and government forces 
OZagreb

throughout Bosnia. claim they have captured 2,400 
Croatla11

Bosnian Serbs claim they square miles -or 12 percent foiled the Croatian army incur­of Bosnia -in the past week. sion, Yugoslavia's Tanjug news Slobodna Dalmacia reported agency said. that 35,000 government and 
But in Zagreb, Croatia, U.N. Croat troops were participating spokesman Alexander lvanko in the Banja Luka campaign. said they had reports of Bosnian government artillery With the Serbs determined to within 10 miles of Banja Luka. protect Banja Luka, 85 miles 
"There is a threat, a serious northeast of Sarajevo, the easy threat" to the city, he said. gains appeared to have been 
The Red Cross said 12,000 checked. refugees were on the road be­"The Bosnian Serb army are tween Banja Luka and assessed to be putting up far Derventa to the northeast. stiffer resistance along the 
Refugees also were crowding whole of the confrontation other Serb-held towns in the line," said Lt. Col. Chris Ver­region -an estimated 30,000 non, another U.N. spokesman, in Prijedor alone, the Red Cross adding they appeared to have said. retaken some territory from 
The newest advance from government troops. Croatia means another front Two weeks of NATO bombing has opened against the rebel have crippled the Bosnian Serb Serbs, who have already lost communications and radar net­thousands of square miles in work, going a long way toward the region. leveling the playing field 
A Serb shell killed two Danish against the more numerous but peacekeepers Monday in their poorer-equipped Bosnian army. camp at the Croatian border town of Dvor, and a senior Dan­The airstrikes were halted for APN/m. J. Castello ish officer asserted today the 72 hours on Thursday to allow days last month, has become an led Yugoslav army may re-en­shelling was deliberate. the Serbs to comply with NATO efficient lighting force. ter the war to protect Bosnian 
The Serbs said Croatian and U.N. demands to withdraw There is also speculation that Serbs, and the gains made by shelling killed seven of their their heavy guns around Sara­the Serbs pulled back with little Croats are straining the shaky civilians at refugee camps near jevo. The rebels complied in resistance from some of the ter­federation of Croats and the the Bosnian border and wound­part, and on Sunday won an­ritory because they would be Muslim-led Bosnian govern­ed 22 others. other 72 hours to finish the job. forced to cede the land under a ment. 
Gunness speculated that U.N. officials reported no more U.S.-brokered peace plan all Croats and Muslims started Croatia might be trying to set weaponry removed on Monday, sides say they are willing to ac­the Bosnian war as allies up a buffer zone on its southern but said the Serbs around Sara­cept. against the Serbs. The alliance border similar to one created jevo appeared to be grouping Large gains by the allies in broke down in vicious lighting on its southeast.ern boundary guns for withdrawal today. western Bosnia have left the in central Bosnia in 1993, was over the past few months. Involvement by the Croatian Serbs with only about half of patched back together in 1994 
Once that is accomplished, army is also making a differ­Bosnia, compared to the two­by the United States. and the the Croatian army would have ence on the battlefield: The thirds they held just weeks ago. two sides are cooperating mili­little incentive in continuing its army, which routed rebel Serbs The attacks are not without tarily. But they often still view advances. in Croatia in just over three peril for the victors. The Serb-each other with suspicion. 
Finance Club 



Caner Night 




---------~-~~--­
-----~---------­
page6 The Observer • HEALTH NEWS Wednesday, September 20, 1995 
Heart doctor recommends lifestyle changes 
By BRENDA COLEMAN the heart in patients who used sels that act as natural bypass­ito, Calif., where he directs the PET scan as a valid measure of Associated Press an intensive lifestyle modifica­es also affect blood flow, Ornish Preventive Medicine Research the reversal of heart disease, tion advocated by heart-health said. Institute. the authors said. CHICAGO guru Dr. Dean Ornish, author of Blockages are "an important And lifestyle modifications In some ways, the PET scan is 
A Houston heart doctor says the 1990 bestseller, "Dr. Dean mechanism, but it's only one of can affect those mechanisms superior, because it records he has all but abandoned Ornish's Program for Reversing many mechanisms that affect much faster than reducing heart function, rather than just surgery in favor of a spartan Heart Disease." blood flow to the heart," Ornish blockages, he said. revealing blockages in arteries, diet, exercise and medication The program consists of a said by telephone from Sausal-The study also establishes the they said. 

for his patients with heart dis­vegetarian diet with no more ease. than 10 percent of calories Dr. K. Lance Gould, a profes­from fat; an hour daily of stress 
Lugar gets clean bill of health
sor of medicine at the Univer­reduction techniques, such as sity of Texas Medical School, is yoga; and three hours weekly of By JOHN KING to release a summary of his also notes that Lugar has mildthe lead author of a report on mild to moderate exercise. 
Associated Press health history this week to co­allergies and occasionalnoninvasive therapy in Ornish's patients did not take incide with his participation in migraine headaches. Overall.
Wednesday's issue of The cholesterol-lowering drugs. 
WASHINGTON two races, including the 17th Eisold reported, Lugar "is inJournal of the American Medi­Gould says they have proven GOP pres­
Annual Dick Lugar Run & excellent health and has acal Association. their worth since the study be­
idential can­Walk next Wednesday in high level of cardiovascular fit­Gould says two powerful tools gan, though Ornish still favors 
didate Dick Indianapolis. ness."make the approach more omitting them if possible. And 
Lugar gets a Lugar, 63, takes a synthetic If Colin Powell has questionspromising than ever. while Ornish favors meditation, 
clean bill of thyroid medication to make up about the rigors of running for One is new cholesterol-lower­the stress reduction technique 
health from for a thyroid failure called hy­the presidency -or holdinging drugs. The other is PET isn't a part of Gould's program, 
his doctors, pothyroidism, and has a histo­the office -he can put themscanning, a method of taking Ornish said. 
and credits ry of elevated cholesterol that to an expert this weekend.pictures of the heart without Ornish reported in 1990 that 
a four-day-doctors said was well con­Powell and President Clintonhaving to insert a dye tube into after a year on his program, 22 a-week jog-Lugar trolled through diet and fre­are among the guests sched­the organ, as required by an­patients with heart disease ging regi-quent exercise. uled to be on hand Saturdaygiography. showed small but significant men with keeping him fit. Dr. John Eisold, the attend­night for the Congressional"With the PET scan being so reductions in the blockages in The Indiana senator decided ing physician for Congress, Black Caucus annual meeting. 
accurate and vigorous choles­their arteries. Nineteen patients terol-lowering being so power­on standard medical treatment ful, I now approach the whole -a recommendation to eat no problem noninvasively," said more than 30 percent of calo­Gould, former head of cardiol­ries from fat and to exercise ­ogy at his Houston school. had worsening of their block­
Prescribing cholesterol-lower­ages. ing drugs and a very low fat The new report, involving 35 diet has afforded most of his of the original 41 patients, patients protection from heart found that small reductions in attacks or the need for surgery, blockages were associated with Gould said. He has not pub­significant improvements in lished those results. blood flow to the heart. 
"If somebody can't do it (a Most people have thought the cholesterol-lowering regimen) blockages were the main cause or it doesn't work, I certainly of chest pain or heart attacks, send them to surgery to fix Ornish said. them, but that's uncommon," But spasms in the arteries, he said by telephone Monday bleeding in the lining of the ves­from Houston. sel, the variable tendency of 
The new study documented blood to clump, and the possi­improvements in blood flow to ble presence of alternative ves-

The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 
Assistant Systems Manager 


IMAGES
Ifyou are interested in learning more about Macintosh computers and have some proficiency, please contact Sean Gallavan at 631-8839. Freshmen are encouraged to apply. 

OF OUR IDEAS 
Beta Alpha Psi and 

OF GOD 
Priee Waterhouse UP 

International Accounting Issues 
TONIGHT! 
September 20 • 7:15pm • Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Thursday, September 21 
6:15 Reception and Pizza 6:4S BAP Meeting 
7:00 PW Presentation 



ALL WELCOME!
101 DeBartolo AD are welcome! 


0MPUS

Beta Alpha Psi attendance mandatory. 
Sponsored by Fourth Day 
MINISTRY 

~--------------------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------~----------------~ 
Wednesday, September 20, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Marilyn threatens Bermuda 
By MICHELLE FAUL 
Associated Press 
U.S. VIRGIN ISLANDS 

Marilyn, the fourth hurricane to smash through the Caribbean in as many weeks, swung north to threaten Bermuda today, lashing the British colony with tropical storm force winds. 
In its wake, tourists fled vaca­tions they will never forget, res­idents sadly picked through the debris of their homes and relief officials mounted a massive ef­fort to get food, water, and some shelter to the thousands made homeless by the fury of the wind and rain. 
At 11 a.m. EDT today, Mari­lyn was about 190 miles west­southwest of Bermuda, moving northeast with increasing speed and winds of 85 mph. It was expected to pass to the west later today. 
Heavy surf advisories were issued today for the mid-At­lantic coast of the United States. 
On St. Thomas, the airstrip was abuzz Monday and today with cargo planes, helicopters, chartered aircraft and people delivering prepackaged meals, water, tents and other help for stricken residents. 
A portable air traffic control tower was being shipped by barge today to help restore air service to the island's hurri­cane-damaged airport, accord­ing to David Hinson, a Federal Aviation Administration official. 
Relief also was flown to St. Croix, which with St. Thomas and St. John was hit by Mari­lyn's 100 mph winds late Fri­day and early Saturday. Thou­sands of people lost their 

Swrce:Accu-Weatherlnc. AP/Carl Fox 
homes; tens of thousands were 
left without water, power and 
telephone service. 

The destruction, especially on 
St. Thomas, was astonishing. 
The hurricane damaged or de­
stroyed 80 percent of the 
homes there, according to pre­
liminary Federal Emergency 
Management Agency estimates. 
It also damaged 20 percent of 
homes on St. Croix and St. 
John, as well as destroying 100 
homes and damaging another 
250 on Culebra island, off 
Puerto Rico. 

It was hard to know where to 
begin the cleanup. 

Eight yachts remained tossed 
along the main harbor boule­
vard today in downtown Char­
lotte Amalie. The Coast Guard, 
meanwhile, tried to use a 
wedge to dislodge the cutter 
Point Ledge from .its perch on a 
pier and a bulldozer cleared 
utility poles from Veterans Drive to free up traffic. 
Aircraft returning to Puerto Rico, meanwhile, brought hun­dreds of tourists whose vaca­tions were ruined by the storm. At least 700 arrived in San Juan on Monday. 
"Now I feel like it's finally over," said Lisa Hazel of White Lake, Mich. "That hurricane had to be the scariest experi­ence of my life." 
The total number of victims wasn't immediately known; search crews were canvassing remote areas of the islands to ensure everyone was accounted for. Authorities reported at least three people were killed in St. Thomas, two in St. Croix, two in Puerto Rico and one in St. John. 
Off St. Thomas, the Coast Guard was searching for three people missing since two fish­ing boats sank Friday night. 
FEMA, meanwhile, worked to open three food distribution centers for the public, said FEMA director James Lee Witt. 
At least 1 million pounds of food was en route, as were barges carrying drinking water. The Red Cross was sending about 25,000 pounds of sup­plies to St. Thomas and St. Croix, including plastic sheeting to protect homes exposed to the elements. 
FBI agents were deputized as 
U.S. marshals to provide law enforcement and prevent more of the scattered looting that oc­curred Saturday and Sunday. Armored personnel carriers patrolled Charlotte Amalie's streets at night. 
In the interior, workers cleared roads of entangled power lines and utility poles. 
Hijacked Iranians end up in Israel 
Associated Press 
OVDA AIR FORCE BASE, 
Israel 
More than 170 people set out Tuesday on an Iranian jet for some duty-free shopping in the Persian Gulf. But a hijacker seized control of the plane, and the travelers wound up eating packaged army meals at a remote air base in the Israeli desert. 
The hijacker asked for asy­lum. So did some of the pas­sengers, according to army of­ficials. 
"We were going to Kish, a place for buying things," said one bewildered woman pas­senger in a robe and black headscarf. "Now we are here. I think it's Israel, no?" 
The hijacker, a man in his 30s, reportedly was asking for political asylum in the United States. He surrendered less than an hour after the Kish Air Boeing 707 landed at Ovda Air Force Base in the Negev desert. 
After they were freed, sever­al other passengers asked for asylum in Israel, said army officials, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. The report could not immediately be con­firmed. 
The hijacker "was sick of being in Iran, prepared a pis­tol, hijacked the plane and forced the crew to come here," said Lt. Gen. Amnon Shahak, chief of staff of Israel's armed forces. 
Police Minister Moshe Shahal said the hijacker 

would not be returned to Iran, although the plane was refu­eled to fly back to Tehran. Security sources said it proba­bly wouldn't leave until Wednesday, and the army was bringing in cots for the passengers to spend the night in the terminal. 
Iran's official news agency claimed there had been collu­sion between Israel and the hijacker, and that Israel had been the hijacker's intendedfi­nal destination. 
Three hours after the plane landed, the passengers, including women wearing black chadors and children, walked off the plane. Some were in tears. They were taken to a lounge on the base where they were given food, water, and diapers and milk for the children. 
Kish Air, reached by tele­phone in Iran, said none of the passengers were injured. 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin said the hijacking began when one of the flight attendants pulled out a pistol as the plane was flying from Tehran to the Persian Gulf resort island of Kish, 650 miles to the southeast. 
The pilot initially sought permission to land in Saudi Arabia and Jordan, but was turned down. 
He then headed for Israel, radioing: ''We must land in Tel Aviv. We cannot proceed. Did you copy? We are low in fuel. We are a hijacked air­craft. We must make a crash landing." 








SENIOR PORTRAITS­LAST CHANCE!! 
Sittings for SENIOR PORTRAITS are already in their LAST week. Have you made your appointment YET?!! Don't miss your LAST opportunity to be in your college yearbook!!! MAKE YOUR APPOINTMENT TODAY! 
DATE: September 20 and 21 
TIME: 9:00am -5:00pm 
PLACE: 3rd floor LaFortune 
,. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, September 20, 1995 
Cristiane Likely 
• DOONESBURY 
OKAY, 8U{)-f/JHAT5 
~ !MPOF<TANT I 
HAV TO !Nr&RIWPT OUR.VA!t-YPRAYeR. BI<EAKFA5T? 
\ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
MR. {)Uf<E? I'M YeAHr KeVIN P&VIU.& §0? NH/fT!G YOU MANI?A­FROM Of!WU//31; I?ON1 :: RIN OR. FARE 5£3RVIC&~. SAY :•• CANTON­
I 
?3&7 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ........•.................... Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....•............................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independem newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The n<WS is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represem the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presem the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notte Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 ~ports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Desire to change remains despite lack offoundation 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
" A. ll reformers are bache­
1-\Jors -all extreme reformers have been bache­lors." 
-George Moore 

To all the dead revolutionaries and those still living, I salute. Which makes me wonder what is our legacy? What will we leave behind to those who will come after us. 
In my mother's generation the sparks of revolution were scorching the air. Riots in Watts and marches on Washington gave evidence to a nation, if nothing else, alive. 
Political conflict, moral judgments and civil rights debates saturated their gen­eration. The evolution of the Black race from sub-human to human, and not only just human, but to enjoy the rights and privileges of humanism in the United States of America. 
·Revolution. To change· the course of society for better to some, or worse to others. Revolution: A complete and radi­cal change of any kind. 
El-Hajj Malik El­Shabazz, Malcolm X to those of you who don't know any bet­ter, was a great rev­olutionary of their time. They insulted and mocked him. Labeled him a heretic and called him the "the hate that hate produced." 
We admire him. We read his autobi­ography and exalt him as a great man. "By any means necessary" he said. He was willing to die for what he felt to be right. Are we? 
Revolution. 

Martin Luther King Jr., a passionate man who fought nonviolently for what he believed in. He led thousands of peo­ple on a march in Washington because he had a dream, and he believed in it. And so did they, and in some ways so do we. He too was willing to die for what he believed in. Are we? 
We easily scorn and criticize those with radically new ideas or beliefs. We call them crazy and deranged and when they die (most likely murdered) we praise them and petition the govern­ment to have holidays in their name. We tell our children of their legacy and what a great person so-and-so is and we leave it at that. 
At a lecture given by Khallid Abdul Muhammed, a very controversial mem­ber of the Nation of Islam, he said to a crowd of politically conscious Black col­lege students "why do we wait for our great Black leaders to die, before we support them? Why do our Black lead­ers die before their time?'' Someone out to get them? Probably, but what does that leave us. 
As it turned out, Brother Muhammed was shot about six months before he asked these question for us to ponder. 
Someone out to get him? This man 
was actually 
banned and con­
demned by 
Congress but he 
said what he 
believed and 
wasn't afraid to 
say it so there 
goes my faith in 
Congress. 
Malcolm and 
Martin started 

something, and will we finish? Are we willing to do what is necessary to bring freedom and equality to groups of people we like to call "minorities" and colored folks. We are more willing to buy into an ideal that never included us, but yet we visu­alize ourselves in. 
We are free in the purely physical sense, but our minds and our hearts are held captive by a system that says for every two steps you take, I'm going to knock you down one. A system that says just work harder and longer and eventu­ally you can maybe get somewhere. A system that says the color of your skin will decide your destination. 
So I ask myself am I willing to just fol­low the path that everyone says I should go. Or do I go listen to what Martin and Malcolm are trying to say to me. "Don't fool yourself, you're not free yet. Don't let them pacify you. You are only free on paper, not in life." 
Ellis Cose wrote a book called "Rage of a Privileged Class". It's about Blacks who have seemingly beat the system, but found out the only thing that got beat was their sense of accomplishment. 
They went to the best schools, got what they thought were ladder-climbing employment opportunities but later found out that despite the nearing of the twentieth century, the glass ceiling is still firmly placed and barely scratched. That is not something I want to look forward to. 
I believe the desire to change things is there, and the willingness is there, but there seems to be a lack of a building foundation. I catch my friends and I saying "Fight the Power!" and "Revolution" and other such phrases and we feel it deep within ourselves, but it's like we are waiting for that God-sent leader to tell us "Rise up! Our time is at hand!!" but we don't see that it has come, so we go oa about our business. 
But it's still there. It's in our manner­ism, our defiance and our talk. It's in the books we choose to read and the music we listen to. From Tupac Shakur: "With all this extra stressing, the ques­tion I wonder is after death, I feel my 
" 

last breath, when will I finally get to rest through this oppression that punish the people that's asking questions and those that possess. 
Steal from the ones without possession the message I stress, to make you stop! Study your lessons, don't settle for less. even the genius asks question, be grate­ful for blesses, don't ever change, keep the essence. 
The power is in the people and politics we address" to the very revolutionary and political conscious Digable Planets "..to educate the masses, to get them ofT their asses." Now I know why Notre Dame wasn't going to let them on cam­pus. 
Every now and then, I make myself lis­ten to this track entitled "Freedom" from the Panther Soundtrack, "we will not bow down to racism, we will not bow down to injustice, we will not bow down to exploitation. I'm gonna stand. I'm gonna stand." Revolution. 
Cristiane J. Likely is a senior living in Pasquerilla West Hall. She can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin. helios.nd. edu 


ACCE-NT 
Wednesday, September 20, 1995 page 9 


00 


oom 

South Bend opens a new chapter in bookstore history 
By BRYCE SEKI 
their own Cafe. Lattes, Cappucinos, 
Accent Lirerary Criric 
Espressos, cakes and cookies are avail­able to tempt patrons' palates. These spe­
Area Bookstores...
n the beginning there was Hammes, 
cial treats are on the expensive side, but Little Professor's and Waldenbooks and 
delicious.

I
they were good. Then came Barnes The wood tables and walls lined with
-Il You Be the Judge
and Noble and it is better. Just what 
caricatures of great writers (i.e. Carl
i 

Sandburg, Herman Melville, Virginia ter than any other in the area? Is it their makes Barnes and Noble Booksellers bet-
Barnes 

WoolO provide for a unique ambiance and 
IHammes Waldenbooks

huge selection, their courteous employees, 
make it a great place to sit and talk or just the cleanliness of the store. or the little 
& Noble 
~ 

unwind. extras they have that set them apart from Many Notre Dame students are taking
#of several several

your average book joint? It's actually a 
150,000 
advantage of the area's newest hangout.
Books thousand thousand 

"The Cafe is a great place to go and makes Barnes and Noble the place for all combination of all of these factors that 
study. After a while the library gets real­your literary needs. 
Type of ':i 
ly old," said Knott resident Nerea Arrien. 
students mall rats all ages

Customer :!
According to public relations coordina­
The Cafe also plays host to Barnes and tor Kirk Hockwell, the Mishawaka Barnes 
Noble's special events, including book and Noble has over 150,000 different titles 
signings and open mike nights. Open to
easy iazz & 
none 
c assical 

the public, these open mike sessionsin stock. The selection is so vast there is a 
listening

lJ~~~d I : 
encourage patrons to read poetry, shortmap at the front of the store to guide cus­
P'NI of i 
stories or sing as a means to promotetomers to the store's numerous sections. 
not

Kato Kaelin's! $20 $18
Magazines are in abundance with nearly community involvement with the book­
available

Book ! 
store. Time to rather obscure titles such as every title avaliable, from People and But what does the student body think
Newspaperi all around 
about this monster of a bookstore?
Prison Life. According to Junior class 
decent local

Selection i the U.S. 
Students seem to look favorably upon the best magazine selection in town. Any president Mike Schwartz, "They've got the 
larger-than-life bookstore. Most students magazine I need I know I can find it 
Cleanliness 
enjoy the fact that they can go into the
of not dispusting sparkling
Restrooms available mal toilets 
store and know that they have the book Literature and fiction sections are there." 
that they need. "I know when I go look­
plenty of~reat 
ing for a book that its going to be there.
loaded as is the children's section which 
Places 
none none overstu ed 

Their selection is so huge that they haveoffers its own miniature tables and chairs 
to Sit 
chairs 

to have what I need,"said sophomore public. 
for the younger members of the reading John Schoenig. 
go to Starbucks

aS:offee none 
But such sentiments are in no way
Customer comfort is key for any good 
Allegro Cafe

w 
unanimous as some students still appreci­and chairs allow customers to sit back business. Throughout the store, tables 
ate the charm of the smaller bookstores. and relax while browsing through their 
Ease of Strenuous 

Walsh resident Colleen Wamser is one of selnctions. Junior Brian Staudt appreci-
Finding Easy Easy w/out 

Books employee help 
the dissenters, "If you need a specific ates this, "It's cool to have a place to sit 
book I guess Barnes and Noble would be down and read. You don't feel rushed 
the place to go, but as far as character plus if you read quick enough you don't and mystique, I like the small used book-have to pay for the book." music department which offers a wide selection of stores better." 
Great service is another plus for Barnes and Noble. compact discs. Its largest section is composed of an Brian Ulmer of Fisher hall agrees, "I worked in a One would think a place this large would suffer from a extensive collection of soundracks, jazz and classical smaller bookstore over the summer and the atmos­lack of attentive service. However, the Barnes and melodies. In addition, there is a specialized staff to phere is definitely more personal at the smaller Noble staff is friendly and helpful. Numerous employ­help you find that special Charlie Parker or Dvorak CD. stores." ees roam the noor, aiding wayward customers who are The store also carries a number of obscure box sets Barnes and Noble has reasonable prices, excellent a bit overwhelmed at the immensity of the store. All that are difficult to find in other music stores. service, and great coffee. Because of thelr large selec­are cleanly dressed and willing to lend a helping hand. Prices, however, may be a little high. "I think the tion it's sometimes difficult to find what you are look­Workers are knowledgable and quick to answer any Barnes and Noble music prices are really overpriced, ing for and its sheer size may be slightly intimidating, questions one may have. With five people manning the $18.00 for a CD, C'mon!" noted Fisher hall sophomore but those problems aside, what else could you ask for? registers... the cashier lines move quickly and effi­David Walsh. Its capacity to satisfy every intellectual taste is exactly ciently. For those who crave a little coffee while they're what sets Barnes and Noble apart from its smaller pre­
One of the more unique aspects of the store is its shopping, Barnes and Noble serves Starbucks coffee at decessors. 
Hammes Waldenbooks Barnes & Noble 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 

page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 20, 1995 

TUTOR needed to come to my  High power Yamaha RXV-670 AV  Need 2 Texas GA's.  TEXASGA  NEED TICKETS  
NOTICES  house (10 min. from NO) from 4:30 to 6:30 on Mon, Tues. Wed, Thur,  Surround Receiver. 18 months old, $800 new, only $325.  Call Alison X2511  BEST OFFER X1759  4 TEXAS G.A.'S  
and.some Sun. Two high school  Sony 65-Watt powered sub, $75.  
WEEKLY-MIDWAY TAVERN  students need help with Chemistry,  Call Tony@ X-1726  NEED 1-4 GA'S FOR OH STATE.  Call Sean x2153  
810W4TH MISH.  Biology, Algebra. Will pay well. 272­ CALL BILL@ 219-294-3250.  I NEED 3 TEXAS GA'S  
MON THE JAZZ FIRM 7:30-9:30 WED OPEN JAM 9 PM  8235.  TICKETS  NEED TWO TEXAS GA'S REAL  RYAN #1239 PLEASE!  Need 3 TEXAS GA's and/or  
THURS IRISH MUSIC 9  Earn $2500 & Free Spring Break  BAD. LET DAD SEE ND GAME  STUD TXTS. Call Tom 4-3637 Ill  
2BLKS S.OF 100 CTR  Trips! Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Best  FOR FIRST TIME. CALL DAN AT  I need 2-4 Texas GA's.  
255-0458 NEED ID  Trips & Prices! Bahamas, Cancun,  A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS  4-3056  call Dennis @ x4335.  
Jamaica, Florida! Spring Break  GA'S TO ANY/ALL  WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC  
Newly remodeled Bed and  Travell1-800-678-6386  HOME/AWAY GAMES.  Need 2 BC GA'slll X4027  Help Wanted:  GAISTDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR  
Breakfast located in Middlebury, 30  219-232-0061,24 HRS.  Need GAs for USC-money no  2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990­ 
miles from campus. 5 rooms with  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ object.  0890.  
private baths, space available for  Seasonal & full-time employment  Brian x3692  
football game wknds. 1-800-418­ available at National Parks, Forests  TICKET-MART, INC.  I NEED 4 GA'S FOR THE TEXAS  TEXAS: Need two GAs for Texas;  
9487  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  WANTED  GAME. PLEASE DO NOT CALL IF  Wanted: 4 tickets together -any  will trade two BC, USC, Navy for  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  GA'S FOR ANY/ALL  YOU HAVE STUDENT TICKETS  home game  them. Call Tom at 1-7330 or 272­ 
ND @ WASHINGTON -2 Dbl Rms  N55841  HOME/AWAY ND GAMES.  TURNED INTO GA'S.  Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC  6408  
Ramada Seattle Oct6-7. Brunch for  BUY* SELL *TRADE  CALL JOE 4-1846.  Call 1-800-922-BEAR day  
4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise  Local church looking for a pianist  (219) 232-0058 -24 HRS.  1-502-354-8826 colle<;l in evening  
to/from game. No game tkts. $600.  for choir practice on Wed. evenings  NEED MANY, MANY G.A.'S AND  
Mike (206)575-Q711.  7-8.  Alum needs Texas tix. Call Mike  STUDENT TIX. FOR THE B.C.  
Call272-8141 -Westminister  I NEED 4 TICKETS FOR THE  COLLECT 516-471-0300  GAME.  AND, EXTRA TICKET  
Presbyterian Church.  I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME  USC.  BOOKS WANTED. CALL US  
BIG EARL BAND RETURNS  Paid position.  GAMES.272-6306  CALL BILL AT 4-1854.  TRADE-2 BCNandblt GAs for 2  273-5953.  
Saturday 9/23, 10 pm  USC/Texas GAs-Call219-273­ 
Jazzmen's Night Club  Video tapes of the 1992 and 1995  NEED TEXAS GA'S.  8379  
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••  Northwestern football games (with  CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010,  Central OH ND Alum living in  
_LOST & FOUND.I I ... LOST ...  ~mmercials and halftime reports) -Call Rick@ 277-8260 I FOR RENT  EXT. 8796. Need 2 Texas GAs. Desperate and Wealthy! Ca111-800-223-2440 Ext.4370  Student tix booklet 4 sate-$ 90 or offer. Leave msg @ 634-2628.  I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  Atlanta, GA needs tix for ND-OSU. Will pay top DOLLAR or trade lodg­ing and/or tix for '96 Olympics. Call 404-451-4069 or 404-813-6073.  
35mm Pentax Camera  .  $$$$$$  CALL 2719464 OR 2887162  Need 2 Texas Tickets-Student or  
In a Brown & Black Case  2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR  YOU NEED BEER MONEY!  GA. Call John at x1694  
Call4x3371  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call  I desperately need TX tix  
$$  tREWARDI  $$  272-6306  Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m.  Will buy/ trade. call 272-4911  NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$  !@#$•!.,11&*()_+{}}(<>+__)(*&"%$#@I  
please call Charlie x2243  
LOST: Very sentimental royal  HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND  NEED NO-TEXAS GA  TRADE  Dave Thinks he has a chance at  
blue/white J.Crew pullover/coat.  232-2595  OR STUDENT TIX.  5 NAVYTIX.  NEED 1-7 TEXAS GA'S. X1899  getting two tickets (GAs or student)  
Psbly in S. Din. Hall. Small reward.  CALL DAVE 1-800-444-1133  Will trade for TEXAS TIX.  for his parents for Texas. We say  
PLEASE call me if you have it  HOUSE TO SELL OR RENT.  EXT. 3876.  KEVIN x3254  noway.  
Usa4-0848  WALK TO ND. 315 NAPOLEON,  
3 BR, 1-1/2 B., 2-CAR GARAGE,  NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC &  SAVE MEl OR MY HTH WILL KILL  $1 need 2 Texas Ga's for my Dad$  If you want to prove us wrong call  
HELP! I've lost my keys and don't  UTILITIES. IDEAL  PURDUE GA'S.  ME. Need 1 Texas tix GA or Stud  $ Call Kate at 2900  him at 219-634-3593 and make him  
happen to have the extra$50 to pay  FACULTY/STAFF HOME. AVAIL­ 219-422-6088.  Vince X 1664  $  an offer. He is desperate for tix (as  
the fines, so any info is appreciated.  ABLE NOW. SALE $88,000, RENT  well as other things). He will do  
Two keys (one mail, one door) on a  $600/MO., PLUS UTILITIES. 277­ Need any home GA's  NEED 1 GA FOR TEXAS  anything for them (did we mention  
gold rectangular Notre Dame key­ 8946.  call Steve@ x1103  please help  he Is in Glee Club?).  
chain. Both have#400. Call x2489­ Sean x-1398  Need 1 USC Ticket Student or  
Belinda. thanks.  BED& BFST  CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT?  GA. Call Anne  x4896.  We know he has no chance, but  
LOVELY ROOM WITH PRIVATE  NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT  2 G.A. Texas tickets needed. Call  prove us wrong and he will ...  
$$$$ BIG REWARD $$$$  BATH. SLEEPS 2-SMC & ND  TOP DOLLAR PAID  Mary Lou daytime 234-7553.  CA family needs 3 BC GAs.  
LOST: Silver Charm Bracelet; 4  PARENTS & FRIENDS. 272-5989  CALL KELLI X4044  Evenings 259-7710.  Please!  I @##$0/.,11&*()_+():"<>?1 @#$•/.,t~&*()  
charms, lost end of last year;  Call Clara x4826  
extreme sentimental value;  3 BDRM HOME NEAR ND CAM­ BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE  **TEXAS**TEXAS**TEXAS  Married Sid Tix Booklets for Sale  
PLEASE HELP! Call 284-5479 or  PUS, 3 MIN BY CAR.  CALL KATIE@ 219-271-9856.  Need 1 Texas ticket---£tudent  273-3166  
x2028  SHARE KITCHEN. $150/RM/MON  THANK YOU!  or GA. Call Jeremy @4075  WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL­ 
PLUS UTILITIES. CALL 272-7376  LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR  NEED TEXAS GA OR STUDENT  
WILL BUY TEXAS TICKETS 817­ I will trade my two TEXAS GAs  WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL­ TICKET, NICK@ 232-1726  
Lost a Gold Chain Bracelet of great  738-5109  for your two BC GAs  LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S.  
sentimental value ... Piease, if found,  Kevin x1940  CALL TODD AT 4-1787.  NEED 2 TEXAS GAS! PLEASE  
call MARl at X296911 :( Thanks.  HOME CLOSE TO ND GOOD  ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL  CALL MICHELLE -X4530  
AREA 2773097  (313)420-1208 OR (212)250-6513  Have 2 Tex tics. Will trade for 2  ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET  
Found­ (DAY ONLY).  usc. Bob. 277-2560.  FOR USC TEXAS OHIO STATE  Need Texas Stud & Ga Tix  
Set of Keys by Admin. Building.  Nicely decor. rms for rent ftball  WASH ga's PERSONAL USE  Eric  233-4435  
Running Shoe Key Chain.  wknds 2 mi. N of campus, cont. brk­ TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY  2 OSU tix for sale Only serious  ONLY 2773097  
Chris x1899  fst, reduced rates, call Kim 277­ SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS.  offers! call John @ 219-277-5073  Need UW tix: 273-9730  
8340.  PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336.  NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM  
LOST: gold necklace with cross and  ATX1899.  NEED 2 BC GA'S. WILL PAY$$$$  
heart charm inscripted "Andy" on  ZEP HOUSE '96-97  USC TICKETS NEEDED-Please  CALL JAMIE 271-8662  
back. Please call 0930 if foundll  6 bedrms. Beach V-ball ct.  NEED:  help me out. .. If you want to sell or  

 273-0482, 234-3831  1 GA for Texas and  work out a trade, please call Mel @  I NEED A TEXAS GA.  
I...,"'::.T~:J I FOR SALE  1 GAforBC. call Christine @ 273-2580  273-0039. NEED 2 USC GAs. WILL TRADE 2  I NEED TICKETS!! If you are not using your tix for the Texas game (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL­LECT at (210)805-8355, after 7 pm  PLEASE CALL TRICIA @273-9840 4-SALE •• 4-SALE •• 4-SALE  
Service needs Reps to sell to stu­ 1985 Honda Hatchback  Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs.  BC GAs+$$. CALL CHRIS AT  CST.  2 TEXAS GAs 50YD (SEC 9)  
dents and their families. Can be  $1000/Best offer 708-957-1546  Please call Cheryl x4883  X1570  Leave msg 239-3975  
done part lim·e ·from room or apart­ (Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires  
ment. Potential for immediate com­ & Brakes.  09/22  I NEED TEXAS GA'S & STUD'S!  ND GRAD NEEDS TIX!  NEEDED: TEXA$ GA's  
missions, management bonuses  HELPIII NEED TWO GA'S FOR  PAUL X5113 PLEASE!II  LETTERMAN NEEDS  call 273-9710  
and long term residual Income. We  ANY HOME FOOTBALL GAME  4USC AND 6 TEXAS TIXI  
offer tremendous value to the cus­ 84 Hunda, 2Dr  CALL BILL AT x3559  ND Alum has 2 Tex G.A.'s and is  WILL PAY $$$$$1  NEED TEXAS TIX  
tomer and training and support for  good con., $1200 or b/o.  looking to trade for 2 USC G.A.'s  CALL MIKE X1824  yes I do  
our Reps. Call Mike at616-521­ 237-1039, tv mess.  Need 2 tickets for ND vs. Texas.  Call (717)697-2219 ask for Tom or  273-5281  
3620.  Call Ken, collect at (405)677-8253  leave message.  Need 2 good tix for any of the dates  
85 VW Diesel, 2Dr  10/21' 10/28, 11/4.  NEED TEXAS GAslllll  
VG con., $2200, or b/o.  Need 4 USC GA's Katie X4088  (515)486-2517  PLEASE CALL ROGER  
ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ 273-9520 after 6 pm.  233-2289  
Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  MARRIED STD BKS 4 Sale B.O  
Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  I NEED 4 TEXAS TIX (any)  273-2331  Wanted two to four home game  
month. Room and Board!  HP Laser Jet Series II printer. The  AND 1 BC.HELP WITH ANYTHING  tickets. Call or write.  4 sale: Texas GAs. call Shun or  
Transportation! Male or Female. No  Cadillac of printers. Top condition.  IN ANYWAY CALL COAT 1676  IN GRAVE NEED OF TEXAS TICK­ 314-731-7604  leave messg. @ 273-9241  
experience necessary. Call  $700. 277-2560.  *I WILL DO ANYTHING*  ETS! Need (GA and Stundent) for  Gary Goehl  
(206)545-4155 ext A55841  older and younger brothers.  PO Box4152  
NEED 8 NAVY GA'S $$$USC stud  Hazelwood MO 63042  PLEASE HELPIIII  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­ tic to sell X2620  NEED TEXAS TICKETS FOR  My father is a psycho! He and a  
Eam up to $2,000+/month on  SoloFiexlleg extensions/butterfly  OLDER AND YOUNGER BROTH­ friend are coming down for the  
Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­ TreadmiiVeach 1 yr. old  Need 2 Student Tix and 2 GA's for  ER (GA OR STUD) I CALL KEITH  Alum wants 2 tix for ohio state  game this weekend and they don't  
nies. World travel. Seasonal & full­ Call after 5PM 273-0487  Texas. Call Dominic @ 273-8709  3482  call Eileen x3878  have any tickets. If you have two  
time employment available. No  if you can help me out.  GA's for the Texas game, please  
experience necessary. For more  J  call Brian at x1741.  
information call1-206-634-0468  !!!ALPINE CAR CD PLAYERIII  HELPII MY HTH NEEDS A  Rich Alumni needs GA's to all home  
ext. C55841  $250 CALL BRENT 273-6183  NEED TXS STD TIX-RON X0648  TEXAS TICKET. GA IF POSSIBLE  games. Call Tom at (312)280­ 
CALL TRACY X4869  2591, Bill at (312)327-5329, or  
WANTEDII  Greg at (708)253-7997  FOR SALE  
Authentic N.D. Stadium seat  need Texas GA's. John 1-7204;  1 student ticket book  
offered by Athletic Dept.  233-3412  NeedTixlll  Need GA's to any game  287-6504 10:00pm -11:30pm  
I DESPERATELY need to buy one  11110 SPEED BIKE FOR SALEIII  OSU, BC, Navy  Call Katie X1093  
-but they're SOLD QUTI  GREAT CONDITION AND ONLY  Need USC GA'S  call Tom 233-2289  
PLEASE HELP MEl $$$11  $40; CALL BRENT 273-6183  1 USC stud. needed  Married Student Tickets For Sale.  
Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91)  Matt 288-3823  Need two Texas Tickets  WANTED-TEXAS GA'S OR  Call277-4314 or leave message.  
M-F 8-5 est  2 R.E.M. TIX  STUD'S WILL PAY BIG$$$  
(708)325-8700  DEER CREEK MUS. CEN.  Need 2 Texas GAs  Call Eric x1157  815-282-9503  
Thanks.  NEXT TUE (SEPT. 26)-7:30P.M.  and 1 Texas Stud  Parents Coming!  
DEB *4320  -i:all Chad X3384  Need Texas Tickets!  Need 2 GA's to Texas  
Part-time nanny needed. $7/hr.  Also have a USC ticket  Call Larry 634-4540  
2:30-6:30 any aft. Must drive. Call  Need Texas & BC Tickets-GA or  to sell or trade.  
257-1411 evens.  FOR SALE:  Student -Willing to buy or trade  Call Carlos @ x0915  DON'T MESS WITH TEXAS  4Sale  
MAUVE COLORED COUCH &  Call Matt 273-9650  Pair of Stud Married TIX  
RIDE TO ND-OSU GAME. WILL  LOVE SEAT AND TWO LAMPS.  SELL MEYOUR  273.0824 -leave an offer  
SHARE COSTS AND DRIVING.  PRICE: $200. CALL 277-3060.  TEXASGA'S  
PREFER TO SPEND FRI OR SAT  WANTED-tickets for U CS,TEXAS  FOR LARGE SUMS  NEED 6 GA'S 2 STD 4 TXS X2855  
NIGHT AT OSU, BUT NOT NEC.  or NAVY. Please call271-0989,  Need 1 Texas stud. ticket  Alex@  
CALL MARC x0672  BIKE FOR SALE.272-6306  also have answering machine.  Call immediately! x2091  OF CASH $$  4-3504  

see CLASS/ page 13 

Wednesday, September 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
has progressed faster than commented. 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
some other freshman. I think "They are coming in averag­
Irish 
at some point he will be a ing 36 points a game and 465 excellent football player here." yards a game on offense. They
continued from page 16 That point may as well be have some outstanding skill 




Phillips pleads no 
now, especially considering the positions athletes back." 
"There are two things about offensive firepower theKory Minor," Davie noted. 
Longhorns bring to town. While that may be the case,"One, he is mature. physically "I think this is probably John the Irish have someone coming 

contest to charges
and mentally. Number two, he Mackovic's best football team back too -and a lot quickercame from a great high school he has had at Texas," Davie than expected. Associated Press 
program (Bishop Amat) so he and complete an anger-control 

Tom DeLuca 

Take a journey with hypnosis... Make a date with your imagination! 
Dates: Time: Place:  Wed. Sept. 27 Thurs. Sept. 28 8:00pm 101 DeBartolo  
Tickets:  $3 at LaFortune  
Information Desk  

LINCOLN, Neb. 

Nebraska star tailback Lawrence Phillips pleaded no contest today to two misde­meanor charges and a third charge was dropped. 
Phillips, who entered the pleas during an unscheduled appearance in Lancaster County Court, has been sus­pended from the No. 2 Corn­huskers since his arrest Sept. 10. 
Police said Phillips climbed to the third-floor apartment of quarterback Scott Frost, a transfer player from Stanford, and found his ex-girlfriend Kate McEwen, a sophomore basketball player, inside the apartment. Police said Phillips hit McEwen. 
He is scheduled to be sen­tenced Dec. 1 on the mis­demeanor counts of assault and trespassing. Each charge carries a maximum possible penalty of six months in jail and a $500 fine, but Lancaster County Attorney Gary Lacey said his office would recom­mend Phillips be given proba­tion. 
Lacey said prosecutors also would ask the court to require Phillips to receive counseling program. 
Lacey said a misdemeanor charge of damaging property was dropped because Phillips agreed to pay for about $130 in damage to mailboxes that were struck as he left the apartment building. 
Nebraska coach Tom Osborne said Monday he would consider allowing Phillips, a ju­nior who had been considered a leading Heisman Trophy con­tender, to return to the team if he can learn to control his anger. 
Osborne said Phillips' return also depends on the outcome of an NCAA investigation, his standing with team rules and the outcome of the legal case against him. 
Osborne said Phillips, who rushed for 359 yards and seven touchdowns in the Huskers' first two games, could be rein­stated within a month if those steps are taken. He said doc­tors would have to confirm that Phillips has made progress in controlling his temper. 
"I told Lawrence that he defi­nitely needs to have some sort of treatment where he can look at how to control his anger." Osborne said during the Big Eight coaches' teleconference. 

Come Visit Scenic Columbus, Ohio 

N.D. vs. Ohio State 
Bus Trip  
Date: Tickets:  30 September 1995 $20 for ND, SMC, HC students at the LaFortune Info. Desk  
Details:  (NO GAME TICKETS ARE AVAILABLE) Leave Stepan Center@ 7am, Depart for ND 45 min. after the game  

No Tickets? No Problem! The ND Alumni Association Will have 3 Big Screen TV's In the Parking Lot! 



T H E M U S c 
\\~ ~\. 
~~" 

MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM-SOUTH BEND 
Octol1er 1 0-11, 1995 Tuesday & Wednesday 7:30 p.m. EST Tickets $12.50 to $39.50 Call 219-235-9190 
Box Office open Monday through Friday 10 a.m.-5 p.m. VISA, MasterCard, American Express Accepted Group & Student Discounts Available 
A Broadway Theatre League Presentation 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday,.September 20, 1995 
• GOLF 

Ryder Cup teams prepare to tee off on new course 
ByRON SIRAK the U.S. team, feeling very Associated Press European. "It's what we expected," ROCHESTER, N.Y. European captain Bernard 
The crisp snap in the early Gallacher said Tuesday. "We morning air and the shoe-soak­brought the clothes for this type ing fairways sopping with of weather." heavy dew had a familiar feel And presumably they brought to the European Ryder Cup the games for the type of chilly team. weather that usually follows the 
Just one day after arriving on European tour around. the Concorde, the challengers "It's cool in the morning," from across the sea were fmd­Gallacher said. "And the heavy ing Oak Hill Country Club, sup­dew softens the fairways up. posedly set up to the liking of The weather and the course we 

like." 
U.S. captain Lanny Wadkins said he wanted to set up Oak Hill like a U.S. Open course with narrow fairways, deep rough and fast greens. He did that. There was just one U.S. Open characteristic he could not bring to Rochester, just across Lake Ontario from Canada, in late September ­heat and humidity. 
"That's what has always bothered our boys in the U.S. Open," Gallacher said. "The hot weather. I didn't think we'd have that here in September. This is exactly what I expect­ed." 
What he got Tuesday was a day that started in the mid-40s and barely climbed above 60 by afternoon. Something even more to the liking of the Europeans -rain -was pre­dicted for Wednesday and Thursday. That will slow down greens juiced up to U.S. Open speed. 
And the forecast for Friday ­when competition will start at 8 
a.m. with alternate-shot play ­called for "much cooler weath­er." And maybe even some rain. Did someone say "British Open?" 
So much for the best laid plans of Wadkins, who said about a million times since be­ing named Ryder Cup captain that he wanted the U.S team to have a real home-course ad­vantage. 
Wadkins, of course, sees no problem. "Even if it rains the greens 


are still going to be 10 or 11," he said Tuesday, referring to the system used to measure the speed of greens. "They are probably 12 now." 
And he doesn't think bad weather will benefit the Europeans. 
"The trick to playing in the bad weather is just to stay patient," he said. "I don't think it will favor any one team. You're talking about seasoned professionals. They can handle any weather." 
The weather was only one of the worries facing Wadkins. The U.S. team trying to keep the Cup it won back from the Europeans in 1991 at Kiawah Island and defended suc­cessfully at The Belfry in 1993 is a fascinating question mark. Questions like: 
-Did Wadkins do the right thing making his buddy Curtis Strange (a non-winner since 1989) a captain's choice, pass­ing over Lee Janzen (a three­time winner this year)? 
-How many good rounds are in the balky back of Wadkins' other choice, Fred Couples? Will that back stiffen up in the cool, damp weather? 

SENIOR (LASS TRIP 
' 



CHICAGO 
HITE Sox 
vs. 



CLEVELAND INDIANS 
SEPTEMBER 10 • 7:00 PM Bus LEAVES AT 4:00 PM FROM STEPAN (ENTER 
TICKETS ON SALE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. 

$10 EACH • INCLUDES TRANSPORTATION 



~~--------------------~-------------­
Wednesday, September 20, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
Class 
continued from page 10 
Have 2 TEXAS GAs, to TRADE for 2 BC or USC GAs. Colin x -1389 
I NEED TEXAS, USC & OHIO ST GA TIXS.CONFIDENTIAL 272-6306 
2 USCTIX Will sell or trade for 2 Navy tlx call Jen X 2342 to trade or leave best offer by 1012 
Student tickets for all remaining home games. Special treats for all those who call Matt at x1873. 
NEED 1 Tex. Stud. Tic for the mutt. Call Aaron @ 233-4008 
I NEED TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TICKETS. Call Marty 273-9650 
Will trade USC STUD TIC for TX STUD TIC-also need 4 WA GAslll Josh 273-2938. 
PERSONAL 

JAZZERCISE 
IrS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & STAY THAT WAY. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 2n-0111 FOR MORE INFO. 
Bookstore Basketball 
X X V 



f 


When: Thursday, Sept. 


21st Where: The Huddle in LaFortune 
Time: 6:30pm to 7:30pm 
fJ"ree baaefs andj(avoredcoffee wi((be served. Student 'Activities wi((be tJivinB away a week­endfor two to Chicaao. 1-lote(accomodations, tickets to the 1vlonet exhibit, and tickets to ''joseyfi andtfie 'Itmazi na'T'ec fin ic 0 (or 1)reamcoat11 wi(( be inc(uded. 
~~ ' 


ft?1 ' ~ I}~


~ ~·~ :;::::/ 
Don't forget to pick up applications In Student Activities (3rd floor, LaFortune) If you want to be a Commissioner for the 25th Anniversary Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. Bigger, Better, Televised?? 
Help plan the world's largest outdoor 5­on-5 hoop tournament. 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center 
We're open for your conveniencelll Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon-6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
12 "NAUGH"ty freshwomen seeking 12 equally naughty single men for the Oct. 6 SYR. Call 4-1393 for more details. 
THIS FRIDAY, 7/22 the return of SUNSHINE WINE at the return and reopen­ing of CLUB 23 
Hey Anna, Bergin, Clark & Turk­
1don't think Career & Placement Is going to help us A&L Aussles. Remember the Brass Monkey--5crap those resumes, girls, we're going to SAN FRANCISCOII Love, Katie 
Happy Birthday, Calleyl Love, 4th floor Farley 
Lllluuukkkkee, Doooo the mmaaathhhh. 
Want to get In kilt with Irish Guard I Call4869 
II tonite II tonlte II tonlte II tonlte II brand new campus band BOHICA 
Wed Sept. 20 live at the Alumni -Senior Club 1111 for good music and a great time II tonite II tonlte II tonite II tonlte II 
The Mix Master has Jerry's last show on tape 
"Culture Wars" 
An Installment of a four part public televi­sion documentary that explores the move­ment for Gay/Lesbian civil rights across the country. 
Thursday, September 21st 7:00p.m. Montgomery Theater 
Thanks for your help Fred and Sean. You are real professionals. Sincerely, Cool Breeze 
Happy Birthday Liz -Love, Carl Weathers 
Happy Birthday Liz -Love, Rocky Balboa 
Hey you "Naugh"ty freshwomen, for your dance call some "STUD"Iy men at x2041 
The itinerary is nearly laid out. The trip Is approaching quickly, but 3 will be left in Ohio, 2 left at the lunchonette, and 1 will go over the falls. Then, I will wander aimlessly and homelessly. 

Rhlneys, Rhineys, Everywhere. Let's everyone take a drink. 
Tara Is a cusser, I kid you not. 
Hey, who took my little sister Beth out to the bars? If I find out there's gonna be trouble! 
You mean Beth Skalicky got into a bar and I can't. Oh brother, how depressing. 
-Crazy 

You mean Crazy can't get into bars. Oh brother, how depressing. 
-Girts of Notre Dame 

You mean girls actually like Crazy. Oh brother, how depressing. 
-Dom 

You guessed It weather fans! Countdown to Punxsutawney is 134 days away. Book your reservations NOWI There's only so much standing room available In the rolling Pennsylvania countryside. 
If anyone found ashes on the dance floor at Senior Bar, please excuse me. When I hear the music going I just gotta bum it up. 
-Rexy Wynoski #812 

Jay, did anyone ever tell you that you look like a circus seal when you do that? 
-Silent Bob 

Needed: Air Force tix, Texas tix, Navy tix. Call John at x1721 or x0642. 
You're wicked coo I. 
Love, 
PW 4B 
\. 

??? Stefan, did you lose something significant recently??? 
NYT girt, I talked to this guy Paul today, I think he's In your Freshman Seminar .... 
TXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTX 
Please helpl I need four student or GA tickets to Texas. Call Kr1stl at 4-4220 

TXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTXTX 
Please read our story todaylllllllllllllllllllllll -Fred and Sean 
BakerSmurl, We saw a little morll of you yesterday than we wanted to. 
0 Sage one, this weekend we shall tame ourselves! (Moderately) 
I love you Tweedie-deelllll 
I need tlx to BC Call Mark at 4-0567 

$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
a horse at least once. The fee For more info. call 
Domer Runs • The runs will place on Saturday, 7 at 11:00 AM. There will be a 3 and 6 mile Participants can register in advance at RecSports for .00 and on the day of the ace for $6.00. For more 
; info. call 1-61.00.il! Jazz Dance • RecSports will 



The Observer 
is now hiring for thefollowing paidpositions: 
Circulation Drivers 
If you have between 11:00 a.m -2:00 p.m. open in your schedule and are interested in this paid posi­tion call Joe Riley at 1-5 313 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 20, 1995 
• IRISH SPORTS 

Renola, Harris earn Big East Player of the Week honors 

Observer Staff Report 

Notre Dame women's soc­
cer goalkeeper Jen Renola 
and volleyball outside hit­
ter Angie Harris earned Big 
East player of the week 
honors in their respective 
sports. 

Renola led an Irish 
defense that shutout No. 19 
Michigan State, 3-0, and 
blanked No. 3 Stanford, 2­
0, last week. 

A first team All-American 
a year ago, Renola has not 
faced more than five shots 
in any of Notre Dame's six 
victories in 1995. The Irish 
have opened the '95 cam­
paign with six shutouts, 
setting a Notre Dame 
record for consecutive 
blankings. 

Harris was named Most 
Valuable Player of the 
Mortar Board Purdue 
Premier, her second MVP 
award in three tourna­. ments in 1995. Harris hit 
.352 with 45 kills as the 
Irish swept through the 
tourney with a 3-0 record 
and moved up to No. 5 in 
the Volleyball magazine 
weekly report. 

Notre Dame's No. 5 rank­
ing is the highest in the 
program's 15-year history. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
FREE 

PHONE CALLs 
An Exaggeration? 
Not ifyou're spending more than 25 bucks a month talking to people in Elkhart, Goshen, Bristol, Dunlap, Middlebury and Wakarusa areas. Why pay high long distance charges when you can pay a low flat monthly fee? You can call as often as you want and talk as long as you wish for only $23.00 per month. No special lines or installation needed. We can start your service today! 
1-800-3604990 
The Observer/Brett Tadsen Despite not facing many shots on goal this year, Irish goalie Jen Renola was named Big East Player of the Week. 
Belles 
continued from page 16 

because she was not feeling well. As a result, two fresh­man, Mary Kay Hoffman and Monica Cenanec, were moved into the starting lineup. Many feel that these two played very well and could be seeing more starts in the future. 
"We're playing more together as a team and our defense is looking really strong," Cernanec said. "The offense has been having trouble but Monday they were able to put it away." 
Interhall 
continued from page 16 · 
Hepburn and running back Allison Kriegel. Hepburn, a former varsity athlete, hurried and sacked Farley's quarter­back a total of six times. 
After the game, Hepburn commented, "I am very confi­dent because I know if I don't get the tackle, people behind me will. We have worked very hard as a team and have come a long way. We have a feel for each other." 
The offensive dominance of Alison Kriegel helped with the Weasels' shutout. Registering two touchdowns with more than 75 yards on the ground, Kriegal was modest about her game. 
"We won because because of our dedication to practicing hard, and our team spirit," she said. All that on her twentieth birthday. 
PE 6 OfT Campus 0 
The Crimes look tough to beat. With all the talent they possess, they fell one touch-
Scholz plans to make some changes in the offense which has been struggling so far this season. He plans to work harder on making the middle tougher and scoring more. 
"Everyone has been playing really well," Scholz said. "Even though we have suffered a few losses, this is not a bad team." 
On Thursday Saint Mary's will face Wheaton at home. The match is scheduled to start at 4:00 p.m. at Angela Athletic field. The Belles expect this to be a tough game but Scholz says he has confidence in his team and is looking forward to the matchup. 
down short to the PE Pyros. Both teams showed great effort and endurance in the toughest game of the night. Is tackling legal in flag football? Oh well, the refs thought so. The defense kept the offense off the field for both teams. One example of the Pyros' great defense was Megan Pomrink and her extraordinary way of swatting the pigskin down. That's using your head. 
The difference in the game was the Pyros' secret weapon, freshman quarterback Elizabeth Plummer. She scored on a keeper with five minutes left in the first half. 

Wed. September 20th 4-6pm at Stepan Center One ID per person Open to all NO, SMC, HC, & Grad-Students 
~~~ sponsored by ~~ ... of course ~,;;~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

I.~~~~-------------------------------------~I 
I1  l  like  cows,  
1  l  like  cows,  
I  cows  are  fun,  
:  them  
I  or  

I ";:'0: 
but not to eat them 
l like to greet them you shouldn • t put hambur bun 
q].cyard 
1 place I stamp I 
here I : I 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 

NOTRE DAME MEN'S SOCCER 
FREE admission with your ND/SMC Student ID. 
Wednesday, September 20, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
G,.EEToru.,s. SufiZEmE-l(oTC. 
mmAM't>AN~ 6Er<EP.AL (. (. lAm 1-\e:~tE. l1!(ETo T11~1< To Tot>~~'\ ABouT A"B... I... &... I~ l'flo'BLEm Tllf!.E.IITEt<ll<~ 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
LOOK AI All 11\f., PEAt-lUI 8UT1'ER! 11\ER£ "'IJ<ST & 11-IR£( S\I~S Clf F\'1£ BRA\-105 Cll= FOJR 
rn>J<:t<:TC>.tru:c::! W\-\0 \YtMA~I)S MUC.I-\ ~0\Cf. ~, 
DILBERT 
o~(.E. ~OU"'-"\ f(l,_ ITAAI ~0\C. CAmpu,; 1-\Al> "BE El'l 61~ow •"C. 
~~~~'""""'11k'••..,T DF L.Are: 
I !-\;.~ ~..~10 Se&. A F--i (N~,.. A ~Atll&l~•~ 
:r:: f\MEI.j<-TTo 
~

EACH OF YOU WILL WRITE. 
0 

YOUR OBJECTIVES AND GIVE. THEf"\ TO 1"\E. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Greenspan's domain, with 
1 City west of "the" 
Montgomery 
29 --offensive 1 Special workers, 
30 "Brand New 

for short 
Key" singer, 11 Any ship 1971 14 One way to read 34 Stick in the rec 15 Provide with room gear 35 Excessive 11 Frisbee. e.g. 
idolatry 37 Darlin'17 1960's movie or 38 Vegetarian'ssong bane20 Dark side 

39Scooby-­

21 Word of lament 40 Tooth puller's 22 Wassailers' deg. 
song 
41 Fit lor a king 23 Like Gen. 
45 Talk-show Schwarzkopf 
fodder 24 Russian river 
47 Three-card 25 Bring up to monte, e.g. code. electrically 50 Was a consumer 21 Hang-ups 51 First-stringers 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

'So, fff ECTWE \,..tiiEl>I~T"'<l~, 
'J'rn ReQv•~•N6 £vEP-"\ 
~£1>. Be• ot>E.t> RoTC. CME T 
To CA~~"\ AI...••E C,~NA 
W•~~ THEm IN Pll•TE<T". 

I \<..l'i<JW 1 I'll QUIT tv\~ JO~ At-lD DE'IO~ tA.'( LIFE \O C\-\OOS\l'IG f'EA\-.1\l\ ~\JT\'C.?.! IS "C\-\UNK'( G-\Ut-1\<..'i El'lO\JG\1. 
OR \)O I t-ltf.D ~ 0\Ul-\'(f? 
i'll COMPJI..Rt;. INGRt:.O\E\-1\S! L'll C<JMPJI..Rt. 8RI>ND5 .1 l'Ll C~PJI..RE S\'IE'S A® ~R\CE.S.' MAil3t;. 1U. DRIIJE ~t-ID />.ND S'tE W\1to.l 07l/[R SIOR'tS 1-lJI..'IE S() M\JC\-1 'SELECTION />Nil 
S<:l l\1\LE niv\E! 

DAVE KELLETT  YOUR HOROSCOPE  JEANE DIXON  
S<r:'  Would.  ;+be. oko.'\ if  
:r: jv~-t Ce>rr;ed  o.ro'-"'<1.  THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1995  
o.n a.~oco.d.o r NE.-&fl.·\OR"\  (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99  

cents a minute.) 
$'o~, AND 'PuFF 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE
l)p ~~~ {J.Eo;."f! 

NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: An employment situation will show
) 

steady improvement. Do not let the winter holidays distract from an important assignment. When higher­ups act demanding, redouble your efforts; bonuses will be generous. A promotion or raise is likely early in 1996. Pressing your luck in romance could cost you dearly. Stick close to the one you love. Prevention will avert a health problem. EKercise self-discipline. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor Bill Murray, actress Nancy Travis, songwriter Leonard Cohen, novelist Fannie Aagg. 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Pas· sions run high now. Do not let a romantic fantasy blind you to reality. Channel nervous energy into projects that will utilize your artistic talents. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A financial discussion culminates in a loan or better understanding between two partners. Enliven a job competition by asking for innova­tive suggestions. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A wonderful day to pursue major goals. Your optimism and confi· dence are revealed in your voice and manner. Listen to your instincts
SCOTT ADAMS 

when making an all -or-nothing deci­
sion. Open up to an associate.
r------------------------,6~----------------------~
THEN I WILL 5CULPT THESE DISPARATE PIECES OF CLAY INTO AN ELEGANT TAPESTRY WHICI-\ WILL BE OUR 
BUSINESS PLAN. 
52 Aida colleague 
53 Olympic skating gold medalist Gustafson 
54 Office napper of 
note 57 Sell-importance 58 Bronze finish 59 It comes with a 
pad 60 Kitty comment 61 Alex Trebek, e.g. 62 Amphetamine 
DOWN 
1 Mystery writer 
Dorothy 2 Cricket squad 3 Nabokov 
creation 4 Think 5 Shakespearean 
fuss 6 U.S.-Croatian 
inventor 7 Jury member 8 1907-08 World 
Series champs 25 "Don't You 9 "That guy?" Know" singer 

~ 
u 
.!: 
, ~ .
.. 
"' 

27 J. Edgar Hoover reality underlings 11 Classic 1973 28 Grisham thriller, 
10 Out of touch with 
Bob Marley song 
12 One who's toasted or roasted 
13 Small hole 18 Card game lor two 19 Eddie Murphy movie 24 Computer owner 
with "The" 31 Some nobility 32 Knocks the 
socks off 33Landol­34 Recognize 35 Poky 31 Detriment 37 Terrorist's 
insurance 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Opportunities eKist for business expansion. Legal questions and con­tractual ties arc in the spotlight. Consult an established, older profes· sional. Give yourself a gold star for getting promises in writing! Your rights are protected. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The atmosphere at home can be improved with a special purchase. A friend will enhance your love life by making an important introduction. Group activi­ties enjoy beneficial influences. Lis­ten to your heart in family matters. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Business and marital ties are under favorable auspices. Joint incomes grow. A loan or investment will receive close scrutiny. Keep every­thing strictly aboveboard. Socializ­ing can be lots of fun this evening. Romance looks terrific! 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Work-related tensions call for a change of attitude or personnel. Be discreet if looking for another job. Playing host to a special group gives you a chance to show off your orga· nizalional skills. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your intuitive hunches or artistic talents to practical use today. Act on a clever idea before someone else does. Great tact is needed when negotiating a financial agreement with a fonner partner. Avoid arguing. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Look for new solutions to recurring problems. An elderly person needs your affectionate attention. Resourcefulness will help you climb another rung on the ladder of suc­cess. Leave nothing to chance where children's safety is concerned. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Lucky at cards and lucky at love, there's no stopping you! A financial or romantic breakthrough sends your spirits soaring. Trips are favored for work and fun. Select your traveling companions with great care. 
• 
.. 
.. 
OUR BUSINESS 
PLAN WILL BE. Lli\E. A CLAY TAPE5TRY? 
FEEL FRE.E 
TO QUOTE. 
1"'\E 
\ 

DID YOU KNOW? The number of Americans who die each day from cigarettes..• 

...would be more than the amount of people who would die if two jet airliners collided in mid air and killed all of the passengers­every single day! 
Ollie• of Alcohol end Drug Education 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Domestic and career aims could cross swords today. Show respect for other viewpoints lest you inad­vertently hurt someone 's feelings. Your creative talents receive new attention. Use your awesome ener· gies wisely. Romance takes an inter­esting tum. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Despite recent challenges, you now feel much better about yourself and your situa· tion. Be on the lookout for new career and business opportunities. Close ties of long standing are blessed with greater harmony. Rejoice! 
• OF lmREST 
The Women's Resource Center will have its grand opening Wednesday, Sept. 20 from 3-6 P.M. in the Center. The WRC is located on the second floor of taFortune inside the student government office. Please stop by for free food and information. · 
ND/SMC Mock Trial Team wiU have a meeting tonight at 9 P.M. in the Montgomery Theater. If you cannot attend, please call Maribeth at 273·6875. 
Before applying to Law School, the Pre Law Society and the Notre Dame Law Review students sponsor a meeting on "What you need to know about applying for Law School BEFORE applying." Everyone is welcome at 7 P.M. on Sept. 20 in the Moot Court Room of Ule ND Law Building. 
The Notre Dame Knights of Columbus is publish· ing a bimonthly magazine this year to promote Catholicism and the academic discussion of religious issues. The magazine is called The Notre Dame Catholic, and its first run is appearing this week. Included in the next issue will be an article from Vice President Gore. For more information contact the Knights of Columbus at 631-7018. 
39 Crown 46 Detroit grp. 40 Knock down a 47 Buffalo skater 

•MENU 
peg 48 Oil-field oil 42 Threw in the 49 Branch 

Notre Dame 
North Dining Hall 
towel 52 Bank letters 

Hawaiian Pizza 
431967 53 Point on a bus 

Spinach Tortellini 
Eisenhower map 
book 55 Some resistance 

Irish Brown Potatoes 
44 Bank, often 56 Dallas sch. 

Saint Mary's
Get answers to any three clues 

Baked Ham 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

Vegetable Stir Fry
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Meat Loaf South Dining Hall Chicken Strips Cajun Baked Sole Stir-Fry · Vegetable 
For more information on the health risks of smoking or smoking cessation classes, please contact the Office of Alcohol and. Drug Education at x7970 

• 
r 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, September 20, 1995 
Holtz defies odds with quick return to action 
.. 
.. 
• 

Linebacker Bert Berry and the Irish defense will have to step up this weekend to contain Texas' high pow­
ered offense that averages nearly 470 yards a game. 
By FREDDY CHIU and SEAN SILK Sports W dters 

As the mist filled the field, the Knott· Angels, once >again, found themselves third and long. All eyes feJI on the coach for the critical call. The huddle formed. The call. once again, was out of the shotgun for· mation. DOHL 
Although this play was always a dead end for the offensive set, the Knott Angels finally prevailed over.. the Siegfried Slammers 6·0: 
In one run by Megan Hayes, the Angels ended their three long years of losing. Oh. what a glorious day. The play was , sparked by her all·sttJ,t t~am• mate's, Kristen Langen, block which resulted in a 30-yard TD run. With only a couple of ·minutes to go, the Shunmerfi had the chance to tie the · game. Siegfried reached the 
}\ngels' 2<)Syatd lill.~JDA:t tlittd and long~ the would~he first down pass. was deflected by Kathleen r<t)" Sullivan. Score . one forth~ girls Qf K:Itott. ·· • •Kristen Langen, specializing in kicking, passing, recieving, and everything else infootbaU.> was the driving for()e for the 
Angels. · 
Brian Barry. the head coach of tl).e . .A,ngelS>c described the win as, "having a gorilla lifted off my .h~ck. It started as a mon+ key, hut grew 

into a gorilla. It took the moti· 
Yation ofthis teamto win." PW lS F~ley 0 ·~The One Fun Nun's" cow~. 
bell rang in the touchdowns as the We · s pl'l,lshetFarley i~ .•.••• an 18 . t. ·· The Weasels\( 
.· Mfense and defense Iooke4 awesome in the domination of the game.. The spotli!{ht was • Qn two play~l'S d~ring tile ~ame: defensive lineman Mary 
see INTERHALU page 14 
By NICOLE BORDA 
Sports Writer 
There seems to be a ray of hope for the Saint Mary's soc­cer team. After finishing last season with merely four wins, the Belles have already achieved half that number with twelve games left to play in the season. Their record currently stands at 2-3 after a 2-0 win over Manchester on Monday. 
The Belles dominated through two solid halves of play. Senior Tiffany Raczynski assisted by sophomore Lisa Nichols made the initial goal of the first half. Freshman Monica Cernanec made the sec­ond goal which gave Saint Mary's the lead they would hold on to for the remainder of the game. 
"This was a good win for us. It will definitely help us," said Nichols. 
The Belles suffered a difficult blow when senior Rita Juster suffered a head injury in the first half which required multi­ple stitches. Head coach Solomon Scholz believes she will be out for at least a week and is a crucial loss to the 
Women's Soccer 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 

Lou Holtz had a lot going against him entering his surgery last week. He's getting up there in age and he's by no means the strongest guy around. Plus, his occupation happens to be one of the most­pressured packed in America, allowing him to 
up to everybody." 
All throughout last week, Roberts and interim coach Bob Davie were hoping to have things just as organized as when Holtz left. Judging by the appearance of last week's romp over Vanderbilt, things look to be even better. 
"To beat Vanderbilt the way we did was really good for us, having been 
sleep little more than two or three hours a day. 
There was one thing in his favor though, he is Lou Holtz. 

That being the case, when the doctor pre­dicted he'd be missing in action for a month, many who know Holtz scoffed. They boldly bumped up his return date to, in all probabili­ty, the Ohio State game. 
Well, Holtz has always been one to rise to a challenge and a little neck brace wasn't going to change that. The fiery com­mander of the Irish is now ex­pected to be back in control on Saturday, as he will oversee things from upstairs. 
"I think he is going to be in the press box on Saturday," offensive coordinator Dave Roberts said Tuesday. "He will wear a headset and be hooked through what we had been through," Davie ap­praised. "I see us becoming a pretty domi­nant offensive team." 

But being the defense mind of the Irish, Davie wasn't about to ignore his guys, particu­larly lineback­
ers Bert Berry and Kory Minor. 
"First of all, Bert Berry is a great person. He is also a good, solid football player. You can ask Bert to do a bunch of different things. He can be a pass rusher, a pass dropper and play man-to-man. He is a young man who needs to put in a position over and over until he feels comfortable." 
Surprisingly enough, the freshman Minor has achieved a comfort level. 
see IRISH I page 11 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 

Saint Mary's Lisa Nichols helped lead the Belles to their second win. 
Belles' defense. season. Sophomore Sandra 
"I will not start her (Juster) Gass played Monday after being the next game and she will not sidelined from practice with a be practicing. She needs to be pulled quadracep. Brigid okay before I can let her play Keyes, who recently suffered a again," Scholz said. knee injury, was unable to start 
Injury has certainly been a big factor for Saint Mary's this see BELLES I page 14 
• Ryder Cup teams prepares for the 
Football 

vs. Texas September 23, 11:30 EST 
Volleyball 

vs. Texas September 22, 8:00p.m. vs. Colorado September 23, 7:00p.m. 
Men's Soccer 

vs. Indiana September 22, 7:30 p.m. 
at Rutgers September 22, 7:00p.m. 
weekend. 
at Seton Hall September 24, 1:00 p.m. 
see page 12 

Cross Country at Valparaiso September 23 
• Phillips pleads no contest. 
SMC Sports see page 11 Soccer vs. Wheaton September 21 






