
Tuesday, September 12, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 17 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Holtz leaves team, faces major surgery 
The coach's condition, known as a com­Spinal compression pression of the spinal cord, has been determined to be "imminently danger­forces immediate ous," according to Dr. James Moriarity, 
university physician. Mayo Clinic operation "Coach Holtz has been advised by the physicians attending his case that this
By MIKE.NORBUT 
condition will require an immediate oper­
Spom Editor 
ation to avoid permanent spinal cord damage and possible paralysis,"
Notre Dame head football coach Lou Moriarity said. 
Holtz is scheduled to undergo major The operation is to be performed at thesurgery Tuesday to correct a problem Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., a facilitywith his spinal cord in his neck. He will Holtz toured during his days as head coach of Minnesota . 
• see PLAYERS, page 16 The condition became noticeable to the coach about a month ago, when he expe­
and REACTION, page 11 
rienced weakness in his hands and legs. The problem came to a head last week at the Northwestern game. 
"On the morning of the Northwesternnot return to his coaching position until game, Coach Holtz came to us for medical he is physically able, which physicians advice after he was unable to run ontoare hoping to be in three or four weeks. 
the field with his team, and unable toDefensive coordinator Bob Davie has climb the stairs into the locker room,"been named as the interim coach in Holtz's absence. 
see HOLTZ/ page 11 

McCarthy promotes peace ND Review celebrates 
Columnist urges rich literary tradition 
students to live By AMY CRAWFORD desperate about the good writ­Accent Writer ing going unpublished today,"life ofservice said Professor Valerie Sayers, Featuring an all-star cast of editor of the Notre Dame
By RYAN CHRISTMAN 
contemporary poetry and prose Review and the director of the 
News Writer 
writers, the Notre Dame Re­University's Creative Writing view is the University's newest Program. "There are notStudents must become edu­enough outlets for literary fic­
cated about serving others 
ary 
offering. tion and poetry."
according to Washington Post 
With its first Entirely produced on cam­columnist Colman McCarthy. 
i s s u e pus, the Review is a compila­McCarthy spoke to an audi­
released last tion of different forms of cre­ence of Notre Dame students in 
spring and ative writing ranging fromthe LaFortune Ballroom on 
the seeond poems, fiction and short essays,Monday night. 
scheduled for to non-fiction and bookMcCarthy. whose lecture was 
next spring, reviews. Authors included insponsored by the Office of Mul­
the Review the collection are of all ages
ticultural Student Activities and the Student Union Board, pro­American students need to be schools offer classes educating not only ful­and disciplines, from well­eeeded to give his audience in­educated about serving others. students about helping others fills a need for literary publica­known poets to novice essay­
The American educational sys­tions throughout the country, ists.
sight on living a life of service, in need. spirituality, and nonviolenee in tem emphasizes eareer ori­"Even at Notre Dame, Peace but underlines Notre Dame's "We want to find the contemporary American soci­ented learning and produces . Studies is a college concentra­long tradition of literary exeel­strongest and most vigorous 
ety. too many "peace illiterate" in­tion, not a college major," said lence. prose and poetry today." dividuals. Very few high "Those on the editorial board
According to McCarthy, 
see PEACE I page 4 were all excited and a little see REVIEW I page 4 

Social forces, pressure push students to drink 
Editor's note: This is the sec­to play hard. Their time and 
gar says the organization has But alcohol's long term ond of a five-part series exam­energy for coming up with new no problem with people drink­effects are often depression, ining the use of alcohol on our and ereative social activities is ing, that it is a personal choice. anger, or violence.
Under the 

campuses. often limited. Drinking alcohol But she says people need to Utz says that a third reason 
is often perceived as a pre­Influence realize that drinking is not a students drink is environmen­By ETHAN HAYWARD dictable and socially accepted risk-free activity; they need to tal. Associate News Editor way to have fun. Part2of5 ... be educated and to understand "College is a plaee and time 
Kigar says that, despite the what the consequences of sueh where the rules dictate that we
because it's fun. 

When Gina Kigar, coordinator widespread perception that ev­an activity ean be. assert ourselves as competent
"Let's call it what it is; it's

of the office of akohol and drug eryone else is doing it, "every­Director of the University drinkers. If students are not a
easy fun." 

education, asks students why one at Notre Dame doesn't Counseling Center and Associ­part of this, they are not a part
Kigar also says students

they drink, many don't have an drink." She cites a poll that ate Professor of Psychology of the scene. these are very
sometimes see consumption of 

answer. She says many of them states that 25% of students sur­Patrick Utz feels that students powerful forces." 
alcohol as a means of bringing

have never thought about such veyed drink little or not at all. "fail to realize the intense mar­Utz says he has spoken with
about less tense relations with 

a question. There is a gap between the per­keting campaign behind the use students who knew alcohol
students of the opposite sex,

Kigar says students often re­ception and reality, and stu­of aleohol.". would become a problem for
especially since male and fe­

ply that they drink because dents are often "choosing imag­He says alcohol products are them the instant they first tried
male students live in segre­

drinking is part of the social inary peers". marketed along with a large it. Others have told him they
gated dormitories at Notre 

scene at the Notre Dame cam­Other social forces often drive amount of misinformation, have found it to be the bane of
Dame. 

pus, that drinking is what ev­students to drink, according to which needs to be corrected. their existence.
When asked how students 

eryone here does, that they do Kigar. Often, drinking is seen as Alcohol is often portrayed by Many students have told Utz
become indoctrinated into the

it to relax or to get "buzzed." a form of rebellion, because advertisers as a means of in­that they are tempted to drink
drinking eulture at Notre Dame, 

But Kigar believes that more students are generally told not creasing one's personality and because akohol is marketed as
Kigar says , "It's a norm here."

powerful forces are at work. to do so. Also, first-year stu­extroversion, which is often not a way to make them funny,
But she notes that the norm is

She says that the workload re­dents often experiment in a the case, aceording to Utz. sexy, and socially adept. But, he 
starting to change. She says

quired of Notre Dame students new environment in which they Seeond, Utz says alcohol is a says, peer pressure is the main
students are beginning to real­

often exhausts them over the are able to make choices on drug, even though it is not al­force influencing student drink­
ize that "drinking gets old; 

course of a week, and during their own, without adult super­ways labeled as such. ing. .
there are other things to do." 

the weekend they look for quiek vision. "It has a nice effect. It gives Sally Coleman, a psychother-
Speaking for the Office of Al­

and easy ways to have fun. Finally, Kigar adds that a the user a brief high, which he
cohol and Drug Education, Ki-

They work hard, and they want main reason students drink is or she seeks again and again." see ALCOHOL I page 4 


• INSIDE CoLUMN 

Dairy Queen: 
land of treats or terrors? 
Dairy Queen can be a dangerous place. 
You figure we're in our twenties. We're educated. We've got our heads screwed on straight. (At least, we like to think so.) But admit it. There are times when we can be convinced that gullible is not in the dictionary. 

We were hungry. We went to Dairy Queen. It was conveniently located just around the corner from the entrance to Purdue. On our way into The Game, we spot­ted it, awash in early morning sunlight. Thoughts of Blizzards danced in our heads. And as we cheered during the fourth quarter, drunk with the knowledge of our impending win, we were really thinking to ourselves, "Dairy Queen! Dairy Queen! Soon we're going to Dairy Queen!" 
We won the game and went to Dairy Queen. It was a good day. 
But then, the day grew dark and sinister. Two girls, two intelligent girls alone in a red Toyota, were approached by a presentable looking elderly man in the parking lot of Dairy Queen. He looked preppy. He drove a silver BMW (He showed it to us.) He had $20 and wanted us to follow him home where he would give us payroll checks to deliver to the Target store by the Scottsdale mall. 
I write that and it sounds believable. 
I was waiting for my roommate to say, "Give me $35 and sure, I'll do it." Before he sug­gested that we follow him home, she accepted his proposition. That scares me that she could be so trusting. It was a quick and easy twenty bucks for her. (She figured she'd get back the money she lost on overpriced, scalped Purdue tickets.) 
But I'm from New York. I don't trust any­one. 
Think about it, really. Who would entrust payroll checks to college girls who said they were driving to South Bend? And on a Saturday night no less? Doesn't Target have their own payroll department? And, if not, why not use Federal Express? Probably .cheaper, too. Why did this man run as soon as our other friends approached, claiming he had to go take care of his little girls inside Dairy Queen? (Dairy Queen was empty when we entered and nearly empty when we left. There were no little girls.) Why did he look panicked when a male friend of ours arrived? 
Who was this man, and what did he really want? Perhaps he was harmless, but the cir­cumstances and tone on the event make me doubt it. 
We'll never know what his story was. But 
the possible consequences are something I 
don't want to think about. Maybe he was 
telling the truth. But maybe it was laundered 
drug money. 

He could have cajoled us into following him home. He could have convinced us to follow him inside. He could have done a lot of things. 
Perhaps, in the end, it was our suspicious natures acting up on us. Maybe we've just been trained since birth to say no to every­thing and everyone. It's been drilled into our heads that human nature is just plain bad. We fall easily into the mind set that bad things happen to good people and nice guys always fmish last. 
Thoughts like that make me think the world is a scary place. I am only left to wonder what the future Dairy Queen parking lots of the world will look like. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 

• lOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Amy Schmidt  Mike Hungeling  
Deborah Schultz  Production  
Sports  Belle Bautista  
Dave Treacy  Tara Grieshop  
Megan McGrath  Accent  
Viewpoint  Ashleigh Thompson  
Marry Dickinson  Graphics  
Brian Blank  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GLANCE 

US cruise missiles keep pressure on Bosnian defenses 
SARAJEVO 
American cruise missiles badly dam­aged Bosnian Serb air defenses, NATO said Monday, vowing to keep up its at­tacks until the skies over Bosnia are safe for Western warplanes. The Serbs were defiant, warning that the attacks could endanger the peace process. 
The 13 Tomahawk missiles fired from the USS Normandy late Sunday caused "severe damage" to Serb anti­aircraft systems, Group Capt. Trevor Murray said in Naples, Italy. 
But he said the defenses were not entirely destroyed, and attacks would continue until they are. 
Murray said NATO had no indication that the missiles killed or wounded civilians, as the Serbs claimed. 
With the Serbs reeling from NATO's bombs, the Bosnian government took advantage of their weakness to capture a strategic village and gain control of a route linking government holdings in northern and central Bosnia. 
Bosnian Serb leader Radovan 

Bosnia update 
0 Government-Creal federation 0 Bosnian Serbs • Serb-held Croatia 

Karadzic said the attacks showed that NATO was working with the government army, and warned that they were jeopardizing a diplomatic breakthrough last week that set the stage for possible peace talks. 
"It is clear that the most powerful military alliance on earth is openly taking the side of our enemies," Karadzic wrote in a letter to Western leaders. "The entire peace process could be wrecked." 
The Serbs have so far resisted NATO's demands to remove artillery and other heavy weapons from around Sarajevo. Rebel commander Gen. Ratko Mladic contends that would leave Serbs in the area vulnerable to attack. 
And for the Serbs, removing weaponry from around Sarajevo appears to be a secondary issue, because the meeting of foreign min­isters in Geneva on Friday already established the basic principles of an overall settlement. 
Parker Bros. corrects mistake Deaths soar in women smokers 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. 
Forget about passing "Go." Apparently, the makers of 
Monopoly never passed spelling. A 60-year-old error in 
the spelling of Marven Gardens was acknowledged Mon­
day by the makers of the world-famous board game. 
Still, "Marvin Gardens" won't be corrected because it 
would cost too much, said Carol Steinkrauss, a spokes­
woman for Parker Bros. "That would be extreme. In the 
grand scheme of things, it doesn't mean that much," she 
said. Charles Darrow developed the board game on an 
oil cloth in his kitchen, using Atlantic City-area land­
marks. He sold the game to Parker Bros. in 1935. He 
misspelled Marven Gardens, a neighborhood in nearby 
Margate whose name he used for a street. The name 
combined the first three letters of Margate and Ventnor, 
another nearby town. Players apparently never minded: 
The game has sold more than 160 million copies and is 
available now in 25 languages and 45 countries. 
Neither did the residents of Marven Gardens. "It 
doesn't bother us a bit," Bernie McCabe, 66, said at a 
ceremony Monday marking the game's 60th anniver­
sary. 
Radio link slows shuttle's project 
CAPE CANAVERAL 
Endeavour's astronauts Monday struggled with a bad 
radio link to a huge, dish-shaped satellite designed to 
grow super-thin semiconductor film in the pure vacuum 
of space. The shuttle crew released the Wake Shield Fa­
cility nearly two hours late because of on-and-off 
communication between the satellite and ground con­
trollers. The trouble persisted after the release, and 
only one of two planned satellite-thruster firings was 
completed, slowing the separation between the satellite 
and Endeavour and delaying the project. By afternoon, 
hours after the satellite was released, the communica­
tion link appeared to be solid. If it breaks up again, the 
astronauts -rather than ground controllers -will 
have to send all commands to the satellite. Scientists 
have just two days to try to produce semiconductor film 
on the Wake Shield. The five astronauts are supposed to 
retrieve the spacecraft on Wednesday. Monday was the 
second day in a row that the astronauts wrestled with 
satellite problems. On Sunday, they chased and recov­
ered a sun-gazing satellite that was spinning and facing 
the wrong way because of an apparent power problem. 


NEW YORK 
Lung cancer death rates among women smokers soared sixfold from the 1960s to the 1980s, a new study found. Such deaths increased from 26 per 100,000 to 155 per 100,000, said one of the researchers, Dr. Michael J. Thun of the American Cancer Society. During the same period, the rate nearly doubled in men who smoke, from 187 to 341. There was no increase in non­smokers. Lung cancer has now surpassed heart disease as the leading cause of smoking-related deaths among white middle-class smokers, Thun said. The study, by Thun and colleagues at the Emory University School of Public Health, appears in the September issue of the American Journal of Public Health. The findings came from a comparison of two large studies sponsored by the cancer society, one from 1959-1965 and the other from 1982-1988. Heart disease death rates declined by 50 percent in both smokers and nonsmokers, the researchers found. Death rates from lung cancer, coro­nary heart disease and other smoking-related diseases were measured in mere than 200,000 current smokers and 480,000 lifelong nonsmokers in each study. 
Mother sentenced for killing 5 kids 
OWEGO, N.Y. 
A woman convicted of smothering her five children more than two decades ago was sentenced today to 7 5 years to life in prison. Waneta Hoyt was given the mini­mum sentence of 15 years to life for each of the five counts by Tioga County Judge Vincent Sgueglia. The maximum would have been 25 years to life. Sgueglia said he imposed the minimum sentence because of Mrs. Hoyt's age and physical condition. But he said even that sentence does not take into consideration the children that were murdered. "No amount of sentence tbat can be imposed can bring those children back to life," Sgueglia said. Mrs. Hoyt sat quietly with tears in her eyes and was breathing heavily while the sentence was read. Her husband sat with his arm around her at the defense table. Her son, Jay, sat in the first row with tears streaming down his face. Mrs. Hoyt addressed the court in a barely audible voice and had to stand in front of the judge's bench to be heard. "I loved all my kids and I will love them until the day I die," Mrs. Hoyt said. Justice will come before God.... I didn't kill my chil­dren." 
Thesday, Sept. 12 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 12. 


~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWaathar, Inc. 
Pressure ~ 
H L B ISSJ !Til 0 ~ § (:} L..J. U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUUY CLOUDY VIa AssoclltttJcl Press 
~--------­
Tuesday, September 12, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Association addresses African traditions, culture 
By MAITHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
Caution should be used when attempting to modernize African traditional customs and laws a panel discussion spon­sored by the Notre Dame African Students' Association concluded last night. 
A general consensus of the panel was that many people do not know much about the tradi­tions of Africa, Jet alone the ef­fect of modernity of them. All panelists agreed that the African culture is not stagnant. 
The most interesting posi­tions of the night were brought forth from the personal experi­ences of the African panelists on the changes in their coun­tries in the last few years. 
Emmanuel Kuada, a student at the Institute for International Peace Studies, stated that, "there is still hope for Africa..." However. modern movements must still be very careful. The should not go in thinking that Africa is some sort of blank slate. "Tradition is so huge that you cannot encompass it", he said. 
Vincent Nmehielle, a lawyer with the Center for Civil and Human Rights Law, agreed saying that "Africans must solve their problems them­selves" and that most of moder­nity has been done in Africa with an eye of what can be taken from Africa. 
The Notre Dame African Stu­dents' Association sponsored its first on-campus event last night with a discussion panel center­ing around the how the ideas of tradition and modernity in­tersect in Africa. 
The panel featured five mem­bers who had different areas of experience with Africa. Two members are professors at Notre Dame, Professor Erskine Peters, a professor of African­American Literature and En­glish and Professor William DeMars, a professor of Gov­ernment. The other three members of the panel are African students and scholars, Bertha Arnisi from Kenya, Emanuel Kuada from Ghana, and Vincent Nmehielle from Nigeria. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications: 
Photo Editor 
Please submit a one page statement of intent and resume to John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, by Wednesday, September 13. Call 1-4542 with any questions. 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 



Board faces busy year ahead 
By CLAIRE HALBRITTER 
News Writer 
This year's Student Activities Board (SAB) met for the first time last night to discuss activities the club will sponsor this semester. 
"Board meetings are used for brainstorming, we are the creative end of Saint Mary's," said Mary Udovich, SAB presi­dent, before addressing a list of activities that will be brought to campus this year. 
This year is going to be filled with new as we11 as the same activities SAB sponsored last year. One event SAB is optimistic about is "relation­ship expert" Ellen Gootblat. Gootblat will be returning for the third time to Saint Mary's Tuesday, September 19 at 
7:30 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium. She will be speak­ing on her popular topic "Mating, Dating, and Relating". 
"Last year she was hilarious; we had a huge turnout. People loved her New York personal­ity," Mary Udovich said. Stu­dents should look for signs posted in showers across the Saint Mary's campus. 

Another favorite from last year which will be returning to SMC Tuesday, November 9 is "Blizzard of Bucks". For those who missed out on this event last year, it consists of a large "tunnel-like" structure which blows money everywhere. Stu­dents are asked trivia ques­tions and if answered correctly they have a chance in the "blizzard". 
There was also discussion about having a touring magic show as well as another come­dian. Recently Bob Kubot, a comedian, carne to SMC and it was a huge success. "He said that he loved the Saint Mary's students and definitely wants to come back," Mary Udovich said. · 
Yet another success from last year is "As you wish imports". A representative will be outside in front of Haggar selling her Guatemalan jewelry, purses, clothing, and more the week of September 25, according to Udovich. Ten percent of the profits go towards the SAB treasury. 
Mary Udovich announced to the board that she will be at­tending weekly meetings every Tuesday with Sarah Sullivan, Saint Mary's student body president, and the other offi­cers to discuss and plan joint events and projects between SAB and the BOG (Board of Government). Items such as the renovations to Haggar are being discussed. 
According to Udovich, Sarah Sullivan has been working on repainting and installing a huge TV set. Tarah Hooper, RHA president, brought up getting bulletin board space for all the branches of the stu­dent government to post events and ideas. 
The general focus of this year's board is to use new ways of publicity to bring in more student involvement. and also to familiarize the stu­dents with who the board members are and what each of them do. 
SAB is taking a new angle on publicity this year. All board members have been asked to bring a different pub­licity idea to next week's meet­ing in order to inspire new and unusual publicity for the club. 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 


Fundraising goals discussed 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association (RHA) met last night to discuss upcoming events within each hall council and the association as a whole. Some of the main topics dis­cussed were inter-hall video rentals, fundraising, publicity, and plans for hall and school­wide activities. 

Class Rings 
are now available for pick up in the Class Ring Office at the Bookstore from 
Tuesday 9I5 -Thursday 9I 14 
Hours: Monday -Friday 
9:00am-12:00 pm 1:00pm-4:30pm 

This year, the RHA is focusing on improving the living envi­ronment for all Saint Mary's resident students. One way the RHA is working to accomplish this is through the establish­ment of committee chairwoman positions, who work with mem­bers from all halls. 
Committees include hall im­provement. publicity, multicul­tural affairs, and mission and service. With the newly-estab­lished RHA chairwoman posi­tions, hall councils are able to work together toward common goals. Beth Ann Miller, vice­president of LeMans Hall coun­cil, is "really excited about all the councils working together under RHA." Miller feels that the new committee heads are a "great resource for individual hall councils." 
Each hall council is coordinating with the hall improvement committee for an all-campus video library pro­gram. The association hopes to "make video rental easy for everyone on campus," accord­ing to McCandless council member Erin Johnson. 
RHA is also planning a public­ity campaign, to include selling hats with the logo "Go Belles." "We want huge publicity," said Barb VanDersarl, vice-presi­dent of Saint Mary's RHA. The council wants to make all stu­dents active in hall councils, and this campaign· will hope­fully improve the awareness of RHA throughout the campus. 

.ARE YOU INTERESTED IN FOREXJNAFFAIRS? CURRENT EVENTS? FREE TRIPS? Then Check Out 

Notre Dame MO[))El lLDfNJ ~lfE[D) M#-\l~ONS 
First Meeting Tonight! 7:30 Siegfried Chapel Lounge 
MUN Conferences in: Virginia Beach, Chicago, New York, Harvard, Washington, D. C. 
Everyone is Welcome!!!! 
-----~-------~~~--------~­
page4 Tuesday, September 12, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS 

Review 
continued from page 1 
Sayers said. 
The Review's focus upon cre­ative writing sets it apart from other national literary publica­tions. 
"Literary magazines always have a certain kind of view and visibility,. " said Professor William O'Rourke, who acts as a sub-editor of the Review. "Other commercial magazines really publish little fiction and poetry." 
A large support staff of both faculty members and graduate students aid Sayers in produc­tion of the publication. Four Notre Dame professors, O'Rourke. John Matthias. Harold Winefield, and Sonia Gernes serve as sub~editors and are responsible for manu­script selection while a large number of graduate students act as editorial assistants . 
According to Sayers, student involvement not only eases pro­duction, but provides students with both practical experience and the opportunity to help shape the direction of contem­porary literature. 
"We can provide practical ex­perience by giving students a chance to· work on a national literary magazine, but they also have the chance here to make a statement for literature by dis­covering poetry from new writ­ers," Sayers said. 
Indeed, the first issue spot­lights the many literary figures who have been associated with 
Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
apist (LS well .as an alcohol and other drug counselor with the Counseling Center, has written much on the subject of alcohol abuse. 
She agrees with Utz on the media's portrayal of alcohol. 
"Advertising often makes heroes out of people with a beer in their hands." 
Coleman says such images associate drinking with power, status. and success in relation­ships. 
She also agrees with Kigar that the high stress level and standard of achievement en­tailed in Notre Dame acade­mics drives students to employ alcohol as a traditional way to soothe oneself, relax, and have fun. Students often feel a sense of entitlement to such recre­the University over the years. Irish writer Seamus Heaney, Nobel Prize Winner Czeslaw Milosz, Denise Levertov, Notre Dame graduate Michael Collins, and an interview with Pulitzer Prize winner Robert Olen But­ler round out the list of contrib­utors to the first edition. 
The fact that all authors in­cluded in the issue have been in some way associated with Notre Dame is no accident. 
"All authors included in the first edition have either visited, taught, or were students at Notre Dame," Sayers said. 
Recruitment of manuscripts for the first edition was through an advertisement appearing in last year's New York Review of Books. Since then, the editorial staff of the Notre Dame Review has experienced an over­whelming response with nu­merous manuscripts now arriv­ing unsolicited. Other notable writers have noticed the Re­view and are responding, O'Rourke said. 
The magazine is currently being funded by Harold At­tridge, Dean of Arts and Let­ters. "Putting out a publication is a major financial struggle," Sayers said. "Dean Attridge is making a statement on behalf of literature and we're very grateful." 
Copies of the Review can be obtained through individual and library subscriptions and at commercial booksellers. 
"Hopefully those drawn by the idea of Notre Dame will likewise be drawn in by the Notre Dame Review." said O'Rourke. 
ation after working hard dur­ing the week. 
"Freshmen often are not physically, emotionally, and spiritually equipped to be sub­merged into a binge-drinking culture." 
Coleman states that joining such a culture can often be dif­ficult developmentally. She says our institution contains conflicting messages about alcohol use, which are illustrat­ed by the campus' alcohol poli­cy and the widespread practice of tailgating. 
"Learning how to be in a re­lationship is part of one's development. The presence of alcohol often makes it more frightening." 
Coleman feels that "more de­velopmental losses occur in an environment where drinking is so dominant." People often per­ceive drinking as a quick solu­tion to developmental prob­lems. 
TASTE Of INDIA 
Newly Opened Indian Restaurant! 
Vegetarian and Non-Vegetarian Indian Cuisine 
Lunch Buffet llam-3 pm $4.95 all you can eat! Dinner 5-9 pm daily Monday-Thursday Open '.iii Sunset Friday Closed Saturday 
For Large Group Reservations Call (616) 471 5058 
8938 US Highway 31 Berring Springs, MI 
(Across from Andrews University) 
French protest nuclear tests 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS Associated Press 
PARIS 
Thousands of people, chant­ing to the strains of accordion music, marched through Paris on Monday to protest France's resumption of nuclear test blasts in the South Pacific. 
Several hundred protesters also demonstrated in Orleans in central France and in Heims in the east. 
The protests were small by French standards, involving far fewer people than the typical 
Peace 
continued from page 1 
McCarthy. 
He pointed out that in the United States homeless people are dying hourly. shooting deaths have reached record highs, and animal shelters outnumber shelters for bat­tered women three to one. He said that clearly, America needs to focus on providing more peace education for its citizens. 
So how can concerned Notre Dame students become paci­fists in today's society? "Begin with a sense of spirituality," said McCarthy. Through prayer, students can come to recognize God's gifts to us. Students must then have a "sense of service" and utilize our gifts by spreading peace to those around us. 
According to McCarthy, The Center for Social Concerns is "tbe soul of the Notre Dame Community". Students should utilize opportunities offered by the esc to work with less fortunate people. In this way, they can "graduate on fire with a love of service and peace making." 

union, student or other anti­government demonstration. But they were still one of the largest shows of opposition yet in France to nuclear testing. 
The Paris march was orga­nized by some 140 groups, in­cluding leftist unions, environ­mentalists, humanitarian groups, and doctors angered by last Tuesday's blast under Mu­ruroa Atoll. China is the only other country that has set off a nuclear blast in the past three years. 
"Jacques Chirac, assassin, we are all Polynesians." chanted protesters, who carried ban­ners reading "No to the milita­rization of society" and "Nuclear Bomb: State Terror­

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
ANGERS, FRANCE 
1996 -97 Academic Ycar 
''A Day in the Life of an Angevin" With Professor Paul McDowell 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 12, 1995 
7:00 l'.M. ROOM 117 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students will be on hand to answer <Juestions Applications will \lc available 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 
ism." 

Among those leading the Paris procession of about 3,000 people was Louis Viannet, sec­retary general of the Commu­nist-led CGT labor union and Greenpeace France director Remy Parmentier. 
Although some 60 percent of French say they oppose the testing, many are preoccupied with problems closer to their wallets, such as high unem­ployment. 
With the exception of a demonstration involving some 10,000 people in June, the gov­ernment has been spared much of the tumult at home that its nuclear policy has caused abroad. 
Attention sophomores!! 
Get involved in 1995-1996 JPW 
The committee for this year's Junior Parent's Weekend is looking for a sophomore chairperson. This is your chance to get 
involved in one of the most exciting events of junior year. Don't ·let this opportunjty go to waste, apply now! 
•Applications 
are now available at the Lafortune Information Desk. 

•Applications 
must be returned to 315 LaFortune by September 22nd. 


Tuesday, September 12, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Bush: Consultation needed in China Powell reveals views 
By KATHY WILHELM 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

George Bush's prescription for patching up tense relations with China: More consultation, less confrontation. 
The former president, in Beijing on Monday for a private visit, also said the Clinton ad­ministration should pro­


mote China's Bush transforma­tion into a global economic power. 

"The United States should take the lead in encouraging China to assume a political and economic role commensurate with its growing weight in the region -indeed, in the world," he said. 
U.S.-Chinese relations, strained by disputes over trade, arms and human rights, were wounded deeply in May when Washington let President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan attend his college reunion in the United States. China regards Taiwan as a breakaway province and its government as illegitimate. 
Tentative moves to stabilize relations may have been set back when Hillary Rodham Clinton used her speech at the 
Tuesday, September 12th 5-7pm Lafortune Student Center Ballroom 
Come meet approved University vendors who can show you 
the latest imprinted products. Meet vendors who have products you can sell at your foQtball concession stand. Meet vendors who can help you with your fundraising events. Free food samples! 
U.N. women's conference in Beijing last week to attack re­pression in China. 
Bush said the women's con­ference hasn't helped u.s.­China relations because the American media have reported delegates' complaints about in­adequate facilities and intrusive sellurity. 
"I feel somewhat sorry for the Chinese having Bella Abzug running around China," Bush said. "Bella Abzug is one who has always represented the ex­tremes of the women's move­ment." 
The outspoken former U.S. congresswoman, who is attend­ing the conference, issued a statement saying Bush was "denigrating the work of 35,000 women and 180 gov­ernments dedicated to making the lives of half the world's population better. 
"George Bush stands frozen in what used to be," the state­ment said. 
Bush, the top U.S. diplomat in China from 1974 to 1975, made personal diplomacy and quiet negotiations the hallmark of his China policy while in the White House. He recommended President Clinton follow the same course. 
"The United States should renew the strategic dialogue with China that establishes the new and sustainable foundation for cooperation," Bush said. "I believe visits between leaders can be very important." 
The two governments have said an October summit is pos­sible, but China is pressing the United States to promise to shun Taiwan's independence movement. 
Bush was speaking to the World Food Production Confer­ence as part of a private Asian tour that also includes speeches in Vietnam and Japan. He has refused to meet with reporters. 

on abortion rights 
By RITA BEAMISH 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Retired Gen. Colin Powell, revealing for the first time his views on presidential campaign issues, said he supports abor­tion rights, some gun controls and the death penalty. 
He has no problem with a moment of silent prayer in the schools Powell or with tak­ing race into account when admitting students to universi­ties, he said in an ABC televi­sion interview with Barbara Walters. However, he said he opposes any sort of required prayer in schools. 


Powell also criticized Presi­dent Clinton's foreign policy, saying it "lacks a certain co­herence." 
He said he rejected the prospect of becoming Clinton's secretary of state last winter because, "I am not a fan of the manner in which foreign policy issues are hammered out in this administration." 
Powell was an integral part of one of Clinton's successful foreign policy initiatives -dri­ving military coup leaders from Haiti. Powell was an emissary, along with former President Jimmy Carter, who went to Haiti and helped persuade the military rulers to leave peace­fully. 
"There is too much tactical judging from day to day and week to week. And I think it hurts us," he said in the "20/20" interview to be broad­cast 
Friday. Portions of the inter­view were aired on ABC News on Monday. 
Powell is considering whether to run for president and said in a Time magazine interview this week that the time has come for him to begin letting the American people know his political views. While he has toured the country giv­ing speeches, he previously has been coy about his views on many issues and his feelings about running for president. 
The former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff enjoys ap­proval ratings far higher than those of any Republican candi­date or President Clinton, but is virtually certain to lose some of that support as interest groups begin to hear positions they do not like. 
He said he would prefer that women give birth and then put an unwanted child up for adop­tion. "If, however, it is her choice to abort," he said, "it's a matter between her, her doc­tors, her family and her con­science and her God ....So that's pro-choice." 
That brought immediate criti­cism from anti-abortion ac­tivists. 
Ralph Reed, head of the Christian Coalition, told ABC News that Powell's support of abortion rights and opposition to organized prayer in schools would "disappoint a large number of people, who then would be quite unlikely in spite of his heroism to be willing to support him for the presi­dency." 
Mark Maddox, senior policy director for the Colorado Springs, Colo.-based Focus on the Family, expressed disap­pointment that Powell would support "termination of unborn life for any reason." 
As to how that might affect Powell's political chances, he said, "The pro-life, pro-family voter is interested in public of­ficials who share their views." 
He added: "There's a large constituency who identifies with a variety of issues, none more closely than defending the unborn." 

EUCHARISTIC MINISTRY WORKSHOPS 
Tuesday, September 12 10:00 pm Sunday, October 1 2:30pm IN THE BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Yearly participation in one of these workshops is mandatory for those who wish to be Eucharistic Ministers. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 


First Meeting changed to Wed. Sept. 13 at 8:00 in 127 Nieuwland. 
page 6 
Senate rejects welfare plan for poor 
By JENNIFER DIXON Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Dismissing warnings that many children would be left home alone under Republican welfare legislation, the Senate rejected a Democratic attempt Monday to add billions of dollars to child care for the poor. 
The near-solid party line vote ol' 50-48 on 'child care caine as the Senate tackled the first of 200 proposed changes to the GOP plan to dismantle the fed­eral welfare system, turn re­sponsibility for supporting poor families over to the states, and require as many as 1 million parents to work for their bene­fits. 
Two Republicans, Sens. Ben Nighthorse Campbell of Col­orado and Jim Jeffords of Ver­mont, voted with Democrats to spend $11 billion on child care over the next five years, $6 bil­lion more than under current law. Two other Republicans, Sens. Alan Simpson of Wyoming and Phil Gramm of Texas, did not vote. 
In another vote, the Senate rejected, 66-32, a plan by Sen. Jesse Helms, R-N.C., that would have denied food stamp to able­bodied adults who have not worked for at least 40 hours in the month prior to receiving benefits. 
Still ahead, as the Senate wrestles for a second week with the GOP's marquee social legis­lation, are fights over unmarried teen-age mothers, welfare fami­lies who have additional chil­dren, and how much of their own money states should be required to spend on welfare programs. 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., has said that ifthe Senate cannot make progress on welfare by midweek, he would cut off debate and fold the legis­lation into a huge budget bill. 
Dole's welfare plan rolls $1 billion in annual federal child care spending for welfare fami­lies into a larger, $16.8 billion lump sum payment to the states to cover not only day care but support payments to the poor and work programs for them. 
It ends the current guarantee of child care services to children of welfare recipients who must participate in work activities or who leave the rolls for a job, and trims overall welfare spending by $70 billion over the next seven years. 
Democrats insist the legisla­tion will not succeed in reform­ing welfare because it lacks ad­equate money for child care. They contend that $11 billion is needed to pay for the child care that would be required as in­creasing numbers of recipients are pushed into work programs. 
According to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., the bill is "more likely to produce home­lessness than opportunity. It is more likely to leave children home alone than in quality child care programs that can give them a decent head start in 
life." 
Moderate Republicans have expressed similar concerns, forcing Dole to rewrite the plan last week to exempt mothers of children under the age of 5 from sanctions for refusing to work if they lack adequate or affordable child care. 
Democrats, however, said ex­emptions are not the answer and should be a fall-back plan, not national policy. 
"If we are serious about pro­moting work and protecting children, we need to find the money to provide the child care that is needed. Home alone should not become stay at home under the present system," Kennedy said. 
After the vote, Kennedy said Republicans have "voted to leave children home alone." He and Sen. Christopher J. Dodd, D-Conn., vowed to try again to persuade the Senate to put more money into child care and. They cited the lack of spending for one of the reasons that the Congressional Budget Office estimates that only 10 to 15 states would be able to meet the bill's work requirements. 
Arguing against the Demo­cratic plan, Sen. Orrin Hatch, R­Utah, said Congress doesn't have the additional $6 billion for child care, while Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., said child care spending in the bill was ample. 


Sweaters, Wall Hangings, Jewelry, Accessories, and Much More! Guatemala•Peru•Mexico•Nepai•Thailand•lndia•Ecuador 
Incredible Prices! 
•3"lo of profits funds the education of 3 Guatemalan children (up to $1500 for 1995) 
•ANY coins tossed in our jar-Greatly Appreciated! They add upl 
Notre Dame  St. Mary's  
Nov. 27-Dec.2 ONLY!  September 12 -15  
In front of Haggar • Windy or Rainy Weather -LeMans Hall  


Ctilnese -American 1 Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge ~ulhentic Szechuan, 
r------------------------------------------------0 
Mandarin & HWlan Cuisif.: 
Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week 

Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 
Dinners starting at .....$5.95 

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
(neJtl Ia R&liiall's Inn ) 

Votcd.Be~~ 
Orif!ntal Restm\rant-' in Mh:hiana by ·· /. 
Mit:hiana Nul_v..'/ 
the mru;ta.rct, Whit~ HQuse spctkel>m~tn McCurry. But in controversy, he was probably a mistake to ex­clude him. ''We should have just let him rant and rave,'' McCurry said. 
Clinton's appearance at Southern Illinois University kicked off a fourwday adminis­tration blitz around the coun-
Orientation Sessions 
Every Sunday (Beg. Sept. 17) 12:30-2:00 Every Other Thursday (Beg. Sept. 14) 5:30-7:00) 
All participants must complete an orientation session before they can have "open" use of the wall. Advance registration at the Rockne front desk is required and space is limited. 
For more info. call 1-5297 
Rev. David Burrell, C.S.C. on ISLAM &CHRISTIANITY similarities and differences 7:15p.m. Wednesday, September 13 Stanford...Keenan Chapel 
All Welcome! 
sponsored by 4th Day 
0 MPUS MINISTRY 
.r-----------------------------------------------------------·-----------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 12, 1995 
page 7 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAII'IT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 

Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizalxth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advei'IUing Manager...........................John Poner Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... Jen Mackowiak Spom Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Ac,ent Editor ......................... Krista Nanncry Systems MaJ]ager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Pani Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the inde~ndent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commenraries, leucrs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo· 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E:Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• MAY THE fORCE BE WITH You 
Gender equity should extend to restrooms 
T
he fly is a handy thing for speed. it presently stands. It's been proven that women spend For evidence, look towards any In an ideal world, all buildings more time than men in the loo. tree along Notre Dame Avenue an would provide twice as many bath­According to potty experts, women .. hour before kickoff on a football room stalls for women. Yeah, this is take three minutes while men need 
Saturday. Or at the short line outside the men's rest room. You may have noticed that men have little trouble when it comes to relieving them­selves. 
Relief, however, is not what women find among pre-game festivi­ties. This unwritten rule of gender dynamics was reconfirmed two weeks ago as I performed my rou­tine football ritual: dancing in circles to hold my cramping bladder. 
Usually, I can voluntarily con­trol my bladder. Yet there are times when its 
Kara

muscular wall relaxes, its lin­ing stretches, 
Pavlik

shooting signals to my brain that resonate, "come 
games for 

M
years. any laugh about achieving "uri­nal equality," but for a large number of women the issue has gone beyond being merely humor­ous. In fact, when female senators grew disgusted with running down­stairs and standing in line with tourists to use the bathroom, the American government became involved. Now there is a women's room just outside the Senate cham­ber. 
States such as Delaware and Georgia have introduced bills that would require large theaters and stadiums to provide twice as many toilets for women as for men. And when Ohio state representative, C.J. Prentiss, missed her home state marching band perform during her inauguration -waiting in line for the lady's room -she introduced legislation to mandate equality in rest room lines. 
only 83.6 seconds. Keep in mind this does not include "primp" time. 
Simply put, women got the short end of the stick when it comes to relieving themselves. Women have to do more maneuvering in the bath­room. This includes accommodating their purses, flattening layers of clothes and anatomical differences. Not to mention a study by British doctors which found that women who crouch over the toilet seat decrease their rate of urine flow. 
O
ne of the most amazing bath­room stories comes from Texas where Denise Wells, now a spokes­woman for rest room equality, was arrested for using the men's bath­room at a concert. She was tried in municipal court on charges of violat­ing a city ordinance that forbid women and men from using the opposite sex's rest room. 
Although Wells was found not guilty after just 23 minutes, I won­der what might have occurred had I been caught by Notre Dame security using the men's room during the Northwestern game. Confiscation of my football tickets? A ban forbidding me to drink before the game? 
Beyond such queries, I should point out the men of the Saint Mary's/ Notre Dame community are not exempt from this problem. At Saint Mary's library, men do not have the convenience of equal stalls. Here urinal struggle exists with seven stool stalls for women, but only two for men. 
For male visitors, finding relief can be an arduous struggle. Because the fly means nothing when cut off from the facilities. 
Kara Paulik is a senior at Saint Mary's. She can be reached via e­mail paul7087@jade.saintmarys.edu 


on baby, pee, just }et it all 
now. 
T
At this point I no longer have a choice. I need relief that cannot come from dancing. Or waiting in line for the too. he fact is, at and around Notre Dame Stadium, women's bath­rooms seem to have fewer johns. And this is common for many tradi­tional American structures. Hundreds of stairs. Offensive bath­rooms. 
Certainly the stadium is an old­fashioned structure designed to accommodate the occasional female visitor. And fortunately, women will soon notice some significant changes. Not only will the stadium provide 26 additional rows, the number of overall rest rooms will increase. The design for the new structure boasts one rest room for every 200 female fans, instead of one rest room for every 540 fans as wishful thinking. I will not even get into the debate over economic hard­ship this would spark. Plus. as I see things, the American economy is not going to appreciate the value of decent female bathrooms until the American economy is run by women. 
Take the Notre Dame Stadium, for instance. The University's fathers want to expand the stadium to cre­ate more seating. It's only now, with major renovations to the structure, 

that something is finally being done about the rest rooms for female patrons. This is despite the fact that a large number of women, who urinate, have been attending 

GARRY TRUDEAU
•DDONESBURY fLASHBACKS 
THAT's RiGHT, otAR ... 'ReNTS.' IT"3 WHATAI<£ TH8 !<£TURN OF Y(}() 0011¥3 YOUR tn.JG-UET H&Rl3'2 
ZONK'5ftR.I 
\ 

MOVING 8Aa<. HOME, 80Y, I MISSED YOU MOM 0'MINt! THE' GUYS B/8 T/Mf?l ANO R£At /,(/(}f<W 0/IJN'T ?HE OJ) HOM8'3Tl:A{). NORJ< OUT. BUTH13'1; HeR£5, MOM, I !3f?a.K:f{T 
IT HAPPENS/ THIS FOR YOU.' 
I I 
UM..~ 

N05TARO-I,
THANK 

PLCASt.
Y(JI0oe.AR. 

BOY, I'M 
NHAT... 

5TARVW.' 
\ \ 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Thewriter is either a 
practicing recluse or a delinquent, guilt-ridden one; or both. Usually both." 
-Susan Sontag 
VIEWPOINT

page 8 Tuesday, September 12, 1995 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Evolution definition has problems of its own 

P
Dear Editor: rofessor Schurr (The Observer, Sept. 1) attacks Pieder Beeli's definition of evolution, (unlike Professor Bellis, he doesn't make a per­sonal attack of Beeli himselO. pointing out that it is no part of evolutionary theory to hold that ran­dom genetic mutation or other genetic changes cause an increase in a given individual's adaptive powers; the idea is that such changes can be adaptive in the next and subsequent generations. 
Beeli's definition does indeed seem faulty in this respect. But Schurr's definition has its own problems. He explains evolution as "a change in gene frequency in a population from one genera­tion to the next." 
This defmition is much too weak to be of any use in the various debates about evolution. Some people deny evolution; others (myself included) are dubious or agnostic about it. What they doubt or deny, however, is not the wet-noodle statement that some populations have displayed changes in gene frequency from one generation tq the ne~t; everyone agrees that this happens all the time. 
I
By virtue of artificial selection, for example, there are now many varieties of dogs, some enormous, like St. Barnards, others minuscule, like Mexican Chihuahuas. No one doubts that there have been changes in gene frequencies in the population of dogs over the generations. The same goes for horses, cattle, fighting cocks, corn, peas, beans and other assorted greenery. ndeed, strictly speaking, the human population displays a change in gene frequency every time someone is born or dies. No one, not even Jerry Falwell, would deny this for an instant. (I men­tion the Reverend Falwell only because common custom and political correctness dictate that he and his fundamentalist friends be dragged (as whipping boys) into any discussion of evolution.) 
What people doubt or deny is not that wet noo­dle statement, but one or more of several much stronger theses: for example, the thesis that all living creatures are really cousins, in that any pair of contemporary living creatures -you and the mosquitoes in your backyard, for example ­share a common ancestor, if you go back far enough; or the claim that we human beings have nonhuman creatures among our ancestors -not only human-like apes, but also reptiles, fish, and unicellular life. 
Or they might doubt or deny the claim that all of the enormous variety of contemporary plant and animal life arose by way of the processes (random genetic mutation, natural selection, genetic drift, etc.) to which contemporary evolu­tionary theory directs our attention, or the more specific claim that human beings came to be by virtue of these processes. 
But nobody, not even Beeli himself, doubts that some populations have displayed changes in gene frequencies. To propose a definition as weak as that simply obfuscates the issue, slyly suggesting, as it does, that opponents of evolu­tion are really crazy-crazy enough to deny even that genetic change occurs by way of artificial selection. Maybe they're crazy, alright, but they aren't that crazy. 
ALYIN PLANTINGA John A. O'Brien Chair Department of Philosophy 

D
Dear Editor: r. Mark Schurr, assistant professor in the department of Anthropology, wrote a Viewpoint letter (The Observer 9/1) that reveals some salient information about the epistemology of Darwinism. 
Schurr stands behind the party-line definition of evolution: "a change in gene frequency in a population from one generation to the next." However, this definition does not distinguish between my understanding of origins, as an anti-evolutionist, from Schur­r's. . 
I agree that gene frequencies change over time, but I don't believe in evolution. For example, my son Andrew was born in December of 1993. If we consider the moments before and after his birth Schurr and I will both agree that there has been a change in gene frequency. (Or should we consider the moments before and after conception? Hmmmm?) Surely though it is absurd to say that Andrew's birth proves evolution. 
R
Thus it is abundantly clear that Schurr's definition lacks the necessary specificity for intelligible dialogue between people who embrace different models of origins. Schurr writes, "Creationism will someday be nothing more than a historical footnote." How can Schurr criticize creationism when his definition of evolution does not distinguish between evolution and creation? eal education requires great attention to the details. We must be very care­
'Deal e~ucation

ful and very specific about what it is we say. Darwinism, ftreqmres great 
in contrast, is couched in·men­
attention to the details. 
dacious definitions. Thinking people have a right to demand We must be very care­better of a theory. ful and very specific 
Schurr also makes the mis­take of criticizing a proposed about what it is we say. definition of evolution based Darwinism, in contrast, upon the reigning definition. 
is couched in menda-

Speaking of his attempt "to 
provide one example of evolu­cious definitions. 
tion consistent [with a pro­
Thinking people have a
posed definition that distin­
guishes between the evolution right to demand better 
and creation model]," Schurr 
of a theory.'

writes, "[this objective] can never be met because [the pro­posed] . . . definition has very little to do with [the reigning] ... definition of evolution." 
This belief of Schurr's is the antithesis of education. If Schurr's 
approach was applied in ages past, people would still believe that 
the earth is flat. If someone proposed that the earth is spheroidal, 
the approach parallel to Schurr's would be to say that this hypoth­
esis is wrong because the earth is flat by definition. · 
A
Instead of evaluating a new definition based on the old defini­tion, Schurr should evaluate a new definition based on facts, logic and the scientific method. s Schurr rightly pointed ou.t, my proposed definition has a 
problem. However, when Schurr's definition is exposed for its 
problems, he embraces the definition with all the more vigor. 
Schurr provides us with fresh evidence that, when Darwinism is 
tested by a skeptic, the theory can only offer impotent results ­
results that even an anti-evolutionists can fit into his model. 
It appears to me that if Darwinism was fitted with appropriate 
definitions, the theory would collapse. In short Darwinism lives at 
Notre Dame, not because of its logical coherency, testability or 
veracity, but because the definitions say so. 
PIEDER BEELI Graduate Student of Physics Off-Campus 
Columnist Efforts: 'Valiant' but 'misguided' 
I
Dear Editor: t's no big deal. No really, what goes on at Notre Dame is no big deal. It's just a bunch of little kids getting their first experiences with alcohol. They will get over it. If they don't they'll die, or live miserable lives, and there's nothing you, Cristiane Likely, can do about it. Not with the attitude you approached it with. 
Although your tirade was valiant, it was misguided, and only showed how naive one can be. How can you know that alcohol is such a bad thing, unless you have tried it? How many alco­holics have you known -how many lives have been destroyed by this drug? 
As most activists do, you have blown things out of proportion. Did you con­sider those who live in the middle of the road, who drink occasionally. not to excess, but to merely feel better? Are they so wrong? 
Why do we eat food that tastes good, why do we treasure back-rubs, why do we tell jokes? To feel better. So why do we smoke pot, or shoot heroin, or take shrooms? Because they make you feel good. Do they always kill us, or destroy our lives? 
I
Instead of asking us if we drink too much, why don't you ask us if we have fun? Why don't you ask us, 'what was the most fun we've ever had, that we can remember?' I bet you a great deal of people would name something not at Notre Dame, or at least something that had nothing to do with alcohol. I know I would. 've been around alcohol all my life­the town I live in is supported by it. I know many alcoholics, people that have tried and tried hard to stop drinking. Some have stopped, some haven't. I don't drink, purely out of respect for one that I did not help, when I could have. I was fourteen when I quit drinking. 
Where I come from, it's not uncom­mon for a nine-year-old to have a beer. There is a great deal of drugs in my town, but not a great deal of vio­lence. The doors on my house are rarely locked, I don't even roll up my car windows unless it's going to rain, yet it is common to try pot before you can drive. 
How can this town survive, why does it not collapse and everyone just lay 
R
around and do drugs and become homeless and rob from our mamas? Because we learn to deal with things, how to handle situations, how to con­trol ourselves. And your close minded, God-put-me-on-this-earth-to-judge attitude is not helping the situation any. andom condemnation of a single general practice will do nothing but fuel a fire of indignation within society. My friend put a shotgun in his mouth and pulled the trigger because people like you looked at him as an acting member of the group 'alco­holic', rather than the sweet, innocent, caring individual he was. 
"Dope fiends,.. junkie, ... loser,...crack-ho" These are people to you, but do not exist. The people you call this are my friends. As long as you call them what you do they will never break into your world. You know, now that I think about it, I wouldn't want to be in your world either. 
DAN O'HARE 
Sophomore Grace Hall 


>
ACCENT 
Tuesday, September 12, 1995 page 9 
71£/e Ia explore boliilimeless andmodern,
BoNDON 
Bondomers mde !he mas! of!.lieir lime abroad 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Beat it. .. Before it beats you 
ByJOHN GALVIN Accellt Medical Corte$pondam 
I
s your head achingly dull? Have neck 
muscles become stre-ssfully stit'f? Have 
sinus passages become uncomfortably sore? Is the throat throbblngly tender? These are the red-alert symptoms of the developmental stage for a respiratory viral infection, popularly known as the common cold. 
During this maturation period, the viral infection fortifies itself by slowing down body metabolism, thus causing a decline of the immune system by raising body tern* perature and lowering body resistance. 
The common cold can be caused by any of more than 200 viruses. These viruses attack and multiply in the cells that line the nose and throat. Contrary to popular belief, colds are not spread primarily through coughing or sneezing. They are more commonly spread hand-to-hand. If you shake, touch or hold the hand of an infected person (who mny not have appar~ ent symptoms) and then touch your own eyes or nose, you are likely to infect your* self with the virus. In addition, you can "catch" a cold if you touch your eyes or nose after touching a hard. nonporous surfnce such as a telephone or doorknob shortly after an infected person touched it. The best way to interrupt this mode of transmission is to wash your hands fre­quently with soap and warm water. 
If you do get a cold, and know that adults average 2 to 5 a year, the general advh:e is to get plenty of rest, and stay away from cigarette smoke. Some people swear by Vitamin C. 'There is no harm in taking some extra mgs. Additionally. here's some advice for specific symptoms. 
Headache, body aches, and fever: 
Try acetaminophen (Tylenol, Datril, etc.), ibuprofen (Advil, Nuprin, etc.), or aspirin. 
Thirst and dehydration: 
Drink a glass of water, juice, broth, or tea every hour or two while you nre awake. Avoid caffeine and alcohol, which can both increase your congestion and dehydration. 
Sore throat: 

Try aspirin and aspirin substitutes. Also. 
gargle with 1/4 teaspoon of salt water or 
baking soda in a glass of warm water. 
Lozenges, hard candy and throat sprays 
help to lessen your discomfort. 
Cough: 

Add moisture to the air using a humidifl* 
er or a pan of water on your radintor. 
Cough medicines containing the suppres­
sant dextromethorphan (DM) or Throat 
Coat tea (from health food stores) may 
help the symptoms. 
Congestion: 

Decongestants sueh as pseudoephedrine 
(Sudafed, etc.) relieve congestion. 
Antihistamines such as chlorpheniramine 
(Chlortrimeton, etc.) can relieve runny 
noses. 'There are also combinations of 
dflcongestants and antihistamines that do 
both (Actifed, Dimetapp, Drixoral, etc.). 
Breathing steam for 10 minutes several 
times a day relieves congestion-fill a 
bowl or sink with steaming tap water, 
bend your head over the bowl, placing a 
large towel over your head to trnp the 
steam, or breathe in the steam created 
while showering. 
The old, tried and true remedies for a 
cold, as we all know, are to stay in bed 
and get plenty of rest, drink lots of fluids, 
have some chicken soup and n little TLC. It 
is only necessary to see a doctor if you 
have any severe or unusual symptoms, 
such as very thick or bloody phlegm, a 
fever of higher than 101.5 for more thnn 
three days, or considerable dizziness. If 
any of these symptoms are present, walk 
in to Health Services nnd see a doctor 
ASAP! 

John Galvin is a Pre-Med/English major. He can be reached for questions and com· 
ments at: John.P.Galvin.3@nd.edu 
By ASHLEY SHANNON 
Accent Writer 
F
orget Monty Python. Forget King Arthur. Forget "Absolutely Fabulous," Chuck and Di, and even Paddington Bear. Put aside all of your culturally-con­structed concepts of Britishness and open your mind to an entirely different version of England. 
Every semester, 75 or so Notre Dame juniors do just that. The London Programme is a semester-long journey into a cosmopolitan city that is as accessible as a small town; a mecca of arts and fashion that is also populated with the homeless and poor; a city rich in history, yet utter­ly modern. These contradictory yet, at the same time, com­plementary impressions blend into one of the most fascinat­ing cities in the world ... a city which leaves an indelible niark on· anyone who participates in the London Programme. 
"Londomers" live in the Bayswater district of London, in two adjoining buildings known as "the flats"-that is, apartments. 33 and 34 Leinster Gardens are paradise after two years of Notre Dame dorm life: there are no parietals, the buildings are co-ed by flat, and, best of all, the living situation provides a sense of independence unlike anything found in the supervised residence halls on campus. Students cook their own meals, regulate their own comings and goings, and basically discover what it's like to live on their own in a large city. 
Londomers, however, are rarely alone. With as many as eight people in one flat, conditions can be, well, crowded. "Although squeezing seven women into one tiny bathroom every morning was definitely a challenge, we turned the close living quarters into close friendships," says Danielle Calnon, who participated in the London Programme in Fall '94. "In fact, some of us are still joined at the hip!" 
Classes, taught by some of the best and brightest minds in London (and a few American professors as well), are anoth­er exciting aspect of the London experience. The classroom building is in the heart of London, just minutes from Piccadilly Circus and Trafalgar Square. 7 Albemarle is a 45-minute walk from the flats, taking students through some of London's famed parks, although they can also opt to take the "Tube," or subway. Notre Dame's Law and MBA London programs share 7 Albemarle with the Programme; however, the three groups use separate sec­tions of the building, so contact between the undergrads and b'l'ad students is limited. 
Although the London Programme is geared towards Arts and Letters students, the Fall semester offers physics for pre-professionals, and there is a special PLS seminar in the Spring, so that students from various disciplines may par­ticipate in the Programme. This too is a benefit of life in London, since one is able to meet a wide range of people from other majors. Peter Seraphin, also a Fall '94 Londomer, says that without the physics course offered first semester, he would not have been able to go abroad at all. "London is the only overseas program that allows pre-meds 

Photo courtesy of Ashley Shannon 
Exploring England is an essential part of the London experience. 
such a great experience." 

Of course, London is not only about going to class and attending the ballet. The social aspects of the London Programme can be summed up in one word: pubs. As Matt Freeman, who was in London Spring '95, says, "Pubs are at least ten times better than American bars. They're more relaxed-you can have a conversation rather than just get drunk. Plus, there are at least 16 pubs within comfortable walking distance of the flats." Besides the obvious advan­tages for those who are considered underage back in the States, the pubs offer an opportunity for American students to meet and converse with British people. Should one's tastes run toward the more energetic aspects of nighttime entertainment, however, London is full of nightclubs and concert venues, as well as opportunities to watch football (the European kind) and Rugby. 
London itself, though the major part of any Londomer's experience, serves another purpose as well: it's the perfect jumping-ofT point for a European vacation. Paradoxically, however, these Continental trips serve to make London seem more like home. "After a nightmarish trip through Rome, it was heavenly to get home to the flats," says Anne Cordero, a Fall '94 Programme Participant. 
Despite all the opportunities that are available outside of London, ultimately it is the city itself which steals the heart of nearly every Londo mer. 
"I only applied to law school at Notre Dame so I could go back to London," confides Paul Noonan, a third-year law student and now two-time alumnus of the London Programme. Not content with his single semester as an undergraduate, Paul returned to London as an RA for the '94-'95 school year. Matt Freeman agrees. "London is magical," he says. "As big as it is, it's hard to fe~l over­whelmed." London's accessibility, its history and its culture all combine to make it an ideal overseas experience. As Samuel Johnson so eloquently puts it, "When a man is tired of London, he is tired of life; for there is in London all that life can afford." Londomers would agree. 

By JIM DOWD 
Accent Writer 
D
id you know that, thanks to the Broadway Theater League, South Bend's Morris Civic .Auditorium is hosting its 37th season of Broadway musicals and plays? Several famous Broadway musicals ("State Fair," "The Who's Tommy," "Crazy for You," "Grease," and "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat") and one phenomenal play ("An Inspector Calls") will be produced a mere three miles from your dorm room! This season repre­sents the biggest (six shows and 23 performances), one of the best, and the most expensive in the 37-year history of the league 
The season opener (September 12 & 13) is a brand new production of Rodgers and Hammerstein's "State Fair." Could it be that Rodgers and Hammerstein will give us one last great stage musical? You may remember the three film versions of the show, but this musical has never before been a stage show ... until now. South Bend will see this show before the Big Apple does! 
The old-fashioned story takes place in mid-1940's Iowa after the end of World War II. It opens as the Frake family is packing up their pickup for a trip to the great state fair. The con­ventional musical plot involves domestic disputes, romantic strife, and mistaken identity. In an age of heavy, mega-musical blockbusters, "State Fair's" bright and cheery story will be welcome. This show beckons the audience to relax and enjoy. 
The wonderful songs of "State Fair" have become a part of Broadway his­tory. From the rousing opening num­ber, "Our State Fair (is the Best State Fair") to "I Owe Ioway," a toe-tap­ping, enthusiastic tune, the music enchants and delights. However, the most enduring tunes, borrowed from the 1945 movie, are "It's A Grand Night for Singing," and the Academy Award-winning song, "It Might as Well Be Spring." 
The early news on the show is over­whelmingJy encouraging, as theater critic Bill Dobslaw raves, "The sets are nothing short of spectacular, as are the colorful wardrobes. The big production numbers are well-choreo­graphed, with a variety of dancing, from high energy tap routines to ele­gant waltzes. The songs of Rodgers and Hammerstein have endured for half a century, and this evening in Iowa showed me why." 

Perhaps the most exciting aspect of this production is the outstanding cast. All of the principles are Broadway legends. This is, undoubt­edly, the first time South Bend has seen such a combination of Broadway stars. 
The major headliner is John Davidson, handsome host of "Hollywood Squares" and "That's Incredible." Joining Mr. Davidson are Donna McKechnie, winner of a Tony Award for her role as Cassie in "A Chorus Line;" Andrea McArdle, highly recognized for her Broadway debut in the title role of "Annie" at age 13; Kathryn Crosby, wife of the late Bing Crosby; and Scott Wise, straight from the triumphant Broadway run of "Damn Yankees." These are legiti­mate, show-stopping performers. You won't want to miss this show with this cast! For more information, or to purchase tickets (there is a student discount!!) please call 235-9190. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 12, 1995 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 

Newly remodeled Bed and Breakfast located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 5 rooms with private baths, space available for football game wknds. 1-800-418­9487 
QUALITY CHILD CARE/PRESCHOOLING-loving mom with certificate in early child­hood education and four years of preschool teaching experience has openings for children 18 months and older. Farmington Square home. 271-8437. 
Shenanigans thanks the 40+ talent­ed individuals who participated in the 1995 auditions! Openings are still available in the instrumental combo for trumpets, sax, trombone,. and bass. Call 1·5896 for more information. 
SAVE THIS AD WEEKEND ROOMS FOR N.D./S.M.C. VISITORS. 
5. MIN. FROM CAMPUSES 219-277-2388 
Bed & bfst. lovely room with private bath for two people (219­272-5989) Parents or friends of UNO & St Mary's 
NO @ WASHINGTON • 2 Obi Rms Ramada Seattle Oct 6-7. Brunch for 4 at Dukes on Lake & boat cruise to/from game. No game tkts. $600. Mike (206)575-0711. 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
LOST: MY DAILY (FRANKLIN) 
PLANNER. CALL SCOTI AT 288­
7261. 
LOST! Lostl 
Have you seen my car keys. They are GM keys on a unique keychain 
that is a laminated cardboard 
teardrop advertising INCREDIBLE 
UNIVERSE. 
Have no idea where I lost them, but if you find them call Mike at 631­4541. Thanks. 
Lost a Gold Chain Bracelet of great sentimental value ... Piease, if found, call MARl at X296911 :( Thanks. 
LOST! Gold/Black onyx ring on Fri. 
9/1 in back of Apt.1635 Turtle 
Creek. Great sentimental value. 
Reward. Carolyn 271-2314. 
Found-
Set of Keys by Admin. Building. 
Running Shoe Key Chain. 
Chris x1899 
WANTED 

Sales Help Needed -Long Distance Service needs Reps to sell to stu­dents and their families. Can be done part time from room or apart­ment. Potential for immediate com­missions, management bonuses and long term residual income. We offer tremendous'ltalue to the cus­tomer and training and support lor our Reps. Call Mike at 616·521­3620. 
Students wanted to promote the most killer Spring Break Trips on campus. Earn high $$ commissions and free trips!! Must be outgoing and creative. Call immediately 1­800-SURFS-UP. 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­
Earn up to $2,000+/rnonth on 

Cruise Ships or Land-Tour compa­
nies. World tra11el. Seasonal & lull­
time employment available. No 
experience necessary. For more 
information call 1-206-634-0468 

ext. C55841 
WANTED! I 
Authentic N.D. Stadium seat 
offered by Athletic Dept. 
I DESPERATELY need to buy one 
-but they're SOLD OUT! 
PLEASE HELP MEl $$$1! 
Call: Chris Carroll (Class Of '91) 
M-F 8-5cst 
(708)325-8700 
Thanks. 
PT/FT -International 
multi-million $ company looking for 
sports minded, self-motivated, atti­
tude-driven individuals to help 
expand Northern Indiana territory. 
Flex hrs., excellent pay, training 
provided. For interview call 277­
5289 NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55841 

Lead Guitarist Looking for Band Call Flynn x-1007 
Business oriented men and women. Gain marketing ex­perience and earn $'s at the same time. Fit your schedule part time. call Ron 272-7147 
FOR RENT 
NICELY DECORATED ROOMS 
FOR RENT. F-BALL WKNDS, 
REASON. RATES, GREAT ATMOS., CONTIN. BRKFST, 2 
MILES OFF-CAMPUS. CALL KIM 
277-8340. 
2 BDRM HOME FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6306 
1-'0MES FOR RENT NEAR NO 
232-2595 
3 BDRM house, 5 min drive to 
NO campus. $150/rm/mon. plus 
utility costs. Call272-7376 
Rm available in 3 bdrm home 
$240 inc. utilities. 5-min. drive. 
631-4809 or 232-7175. 
HOME CLOSE TO NO GOOD 
AREA 2773097 
LUXURY LAKE HOUSE AVAIL· ABLE FOR HOME GAME WEEK­ENDS. SLEEPS 10. JACUZZI TUB, STEAM ROOM, FULLY FUR­NISHED. $1,500.00 PER WEEK­END. 30 MIN. FROM CAMPUS. 219-295-6261 DAYS. 616-476­2459 EVENINGS. ASK FOR LES. 
FOR SALE 
1985 Honda Hatchback 
$1000/Best offer 708-957-1546 
(Chicago) Ask for Pete. New Tires 
& Brakes. 
RUST LOVESEAT, CHAIR & 
OTIOMAN. $200 TAKES ALL 
291-5160. 
TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS 
GA'S TO ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY GAMES. 
219-232-0061,24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED 
GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. 
BUY'SELL'TRADE 
(219) 232-0058 • 24 HAS. 
BUSINESSMAN NEEDS 2or4 NO SEASON TICKETS ANY OR ALL GAMES. OHIO.ST. andWASHINGTON A MUST PLEASE HELP IF YOU CAN ........ 2771659 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME 
GAMES.272-6306 
NEED TEXAS GA'S. 
CALL ALISON 1-800-431-0010, 
EXT. 8796. 
Wealthy Alum needs tix for all home games. Brett 272-7223 
Desperately need USC tickets!!! 
3 GA's or 2 GA's and 1 Student 
Please call Chris at 288-7843. 
Need 2 Texas GAs. 
Desperate and Wealthy! 
Call 1-800-223-2440 Ext.4370 
$$$$$$ 
need vanderbilt tickets GA's or married student tix call Dan @ 273-4780 
Need G.A. Tix to NO-Texas. Call 
Joe at 287-4561 before 10 p.m. 
NEED NO-TEXAS GA OR STUDENT TIX. CALL DAVE 609-779-3876. 
NO DAD NEEDS TEXAS, USC & 
PURDUE GA'S. 
219-422-6088. 
I NEED TEXAS AND USC GA'S! 
PLEASE CALL SUZV AT X3729. 
Need GA's & Student Tx for USC. 
Call Rich at 277-4755 Need any home GA's call Steve@ x1103 
NEED GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS­NO GAME. WILL PAY TOP DOL­LAR. (610)995·9671 
FOR SALE TICKETS!!!! 
G.A. S ALL GAMES ....... 272-723311111111!1 
CAN Y'ALL HELP OUT? NEED TEX TIX-GA OR STDNT TOP DOLLAR PAID CALL KELLI X4044 
BC TICKETS NEEDED. PLEASE CALL KATIE@ 219-271-9856. THANK YOU! 
Need 2 Vandy GA's X 0652 
DESPERATELY SEEKING 3 GA or student tickets for TEXAS! Call Sarah 273-6875 
Need 2 Vanderbilt GA's Call Ali x4541 
Need 3 GA's for Vandy and 4 for UT-call Jeff X1828 
Need 2-4 tix for Texas. John 631­7204; 233-3412 
NEED STUDENT TIXI!I VANDY, OSU, and NAVY 
233-2289 
need 3 GA's 4 Vand. call x2855 
ALUM NEEDS TEXAS GAs. CALL 
(313)420-1208 OR (212)250·6513 
(DAY ONLY). 
DESPERATE for 4 usc gas and 4 washington gas $$$ call ruth x37 41 
Need 2 BC GA's 
call Nort x1609 
I need 2 Vandy GA'sl 
Call Martha @ X4092 
In Need of 2 Vandy Tickets Students or G.A.'s Will Pay Good Money Call Tony@ x3530 
Need 4 Vandy tix. 
Call Kate 277-9414 
HELP MElli 
I need 2 Texas GA's 
273-6162 
PAIR OF MARRIED STUD 
TIX BOOKLETS 4 sale 
call 273.0824 
Need BC or USC GAs -Call Jess 
@ X2785 
NO ALUM NEEDS 214 OSU TIX GA'S PREF. CALL MIKE 212-574­1071 
"Need two BC tixl" Please call Kristin @ 2377 
Need BC & USC GA's & Stud 
Meg or Sue @ 4544 
Need Vandy Texas WA Stud & 
GA's 
Katie or Christy @ 4514 
TEXAS BOY DESPERATELY SEEKING TEXAS TICKETS. PLEASE CALL MIGUEL AT X3336. 
Will trade 1 stud Vandy & Tex for 
2 Navy GAs Ben x3305 
NEED: 
1 GA for Texas and 
1 GAforBC. 
call Christine @ 273-2580 
NEEDED: 
Five tix for Vandy-GA's or Stud's 
Call Mike @ X061 
Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. 
Please call Cheryl x4883 
Need 2 USC GAs. Will buy or trade for Vand, ·uT, or Navy GAs. Tom. 233-1958 
Needed: One or two GA's or 
student tix for Texas. Call Katie at 
4-3812. 
For Sale: Vandy GA's 
Mark 273-6048 
I have tickets for every home game. I need 2 TEXAS GA's. If you want to trade call277-3609. 
Need Texas GA and Stud. nx 
Eric 233-4435 
I NEED TXS GA'S MEGAN X3890 NO student needs Texas and Navy tickets for family driving REALLY far to get here-Please call Kerry @ 634-2925 

I NEED 2 USC GA's Call Tara x4508 

2 married std tik book 4 sale 271­0783 
I need 2 Navy GA's. Call Katie at 273-0122 
1 Student Vanderbildt Ticket For Sale. Call Katie 273-0122 
2 Stud Tik Bks for sale together or separate 289-2846 anytime leave msg 
I NEED USC and OSU GAs! I HAVE stud tix for Vandy, BC to trade and/or $$1 Amy x4836 
I NEED VANDERBILT GA'S PLEASE!!!! I CALL TRICIA @273-9840 
Needed one Vandy ticket Call Greg at 388 
#!#!#!#!@ FOR SALE 2 VANDY STUD TIX call and leave OFFER Tim x3889 !@#$%" 
xxxxxxxxxxx 
Need 2BC tickets for a priest and friend call TIM X3889 
xxxsxxxxxxx 
TRADE! 
2 VANDY and 4 NAVY GAs WILL TRADE FOR ANY TEXAS TIX. KEVIN x3254 
Need B.C. tickets $$$ Kevin x 1233 

I HAVE VANDERBILT STUD TIX FOR SALE 1-6696 
ATIENTIONIII NEED 4 VANDY GA'S FOR FAMIL VII BIG $$$$ '"CALL ANNA @273-0962"' 

Need 2 tickets to Vanderbilt game. Call Cristina at 2475. 
Need 2 tickets for ND vs. Texas. Call Ken, collect at (405)677-8253 
NO Alum has 2 BC GA's to TRADE for USC GA's. Call Brian (717)566­5856. Leave message. 
TRADE -2 BCNandblt GAs for 2 USC/Texas GAs-Call 219-273­8379 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
GA FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE CALL 2719464 OR 2887162 

I HAVE GA TICKETS FOR TEXAS, VANDY AND NAVY .... IF YOU HAVE TICKETS FOR USC AND WANT TO MAKE A TRADE ..... Call Tom at: 4-3893 
HEY I Need Vandy and Texas tickets call239-7959 ask for Mike 
Need 2 Vandy GA's Please call Jon @ X11 03 
I NEED BC GA'S & STUD TIX! CALL JOHN @ 234-5771 

NEED TEXAS GAs-WILL PAY$$ please call Charlie x2243 
!!@VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY@!! 
Stacy needs Tickets to Vanderbilt! GAs are ideal. Help her out and ~;>he will pay you the big bucks! Call her at 219-634-4203 and make her an offer. 
"&'%%$@#(Go Irish!)#@$%%'&" 
????TRADE???? 
Seeking to trade 2 Vandy GA's for 2 Texas GA's call Jim/Stacie (614) 261-0056 

ALUM WILL PAY $100 A TICKET FOR USC TEXAS OHIO STATE WASH ga's PERSONAL USE ONLY 2773097 Willing to trade two Navy G.A.s for Texas tickets. 
Tom 634-1157 

DESPERATELY NEED B.C. stu­dent and GA tickets!! Call Beth at 273-8334. 
NEED 2 USC GA'S AND 4 TEXAS GA'S: CALL KEVIN 234-3468 
Help!! need a total of 8 GAs plus 1 st. tix for Vanderbilt, Matt X-3931 
TRADE 

I have 2 Vandy & 4 Navy. Any combination for 2 USC or 2 Texas. Call Brian x3084 
HELP!! I need Air Force tickets!!! II Also Purdue, Ohio State, and any home GA's. Emily @ 273-9840. 
Need 2 G.A Tixs for Vandy game! 
Please call x4021. 

NEED 1-7 TEXAS GA'S. X1899 
HELP! HELP! HELP! I need 2 G.A.'s to ANY game after Fall Break. Will pay ANY price! I! 
call Scott @ x1105 
NEED 2 VANDY TIX 
STUDENT OR GA WILL PAY$$$$ FOR BROTHER AND VANDY GIRLFRIED 
CALL DOUG @ X-3686 
$ I need 2 Texas Ga's for my Dad$ $ Call Kate at 2900 
$ 

I NEED 2 VANDERBILT TICKETS. PLEASE CALL 1-800-366-1687 ASK FOR KATHY AT EXT.129 
I need to 2 TX GA'slll 
Call Christy at X2950. 
Need 1 USC Ticket Student or 
GA. Call Anne x4896. 
CA family needs 3 BC GAs. 
Please! 
Call Clara x4826 

!@#$%!@#$%!@#$%!@#$%!@# 
I NEED 2·4 OH STATE GA'S 
CALL JAY COLLECT @ 
(614) 766-2012 
AFTER7PM 

!@#$%1@#$%1@#$%!@#$%@# 
NEED 2--f'REFERABLY 4 G.A.'s TO USC. GIVE MATI A CALL AT 4-2120. 
4 SALE: MARRIED STD TIX, 
SECT. 30, TOM@273-4226 
WILL TRADE 4 BOSTON COL· LEGE GA'S FOR 4 USC GA'S OR WILL TRADE 2 BOSTON COL· LEGE GA'S FOR 2 USC GA'S. CALL TODD AT 4-1787. 
NEED VANDERBILT GA'S FOR 
FRIENDS FROM HOME. CALL 
JOE AT 4-1846. 

NEED: 1 OR MORE STD TIX 
ANY GAME ESP. TEXAS 
CALLX3232 

NEED 2 NAVY GA'S. CALL TOM 
ATX1899. 

Selling Married Stud Booklets 
232 4827 

NEED 4 TEX GA BIG $Chrisx4010 
need tix for lex, dave 233-4925 
Need 4 GA's for Vanderbilt. 
Will pay big money. 
Call Joe at X1632 

NEED 1 Vanderbilt student ticket 
call Doug x1835 

WANTED: 2-3 Texas GAs; will 
trade BC GAs for them. (414)282­
0286 Brian 

I NEED TICKETS!! If you are not using your tix for the Texas game (Sep.23), please CALL RICK COL­LECT at (21 0)805-8355, after 7 pm CST. 
AAA 
I really need 2 GA tickets for the Navy Game for my Grandparents coming here. If you can help please call me at 4-1959 
PERSONAL 

STEPH-Hey, make it easy on yourself & share! I If we find out on our own, we'll share w/EVERYONE. Come on -tell usllll Share, dammit!ll 
JAZZERCISE 

ITS A FUN WAY TO GET FIT & STAY THAT WAY. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 277-0111 FOR MOf:!E INFO. 
Hey, you! I know you're interested in Notre Dame Student Players. Our first meeting of the year is com­ing up soon. Mark your calendars: 
(9/18/95, 6 p.m., Notre Dame Room, LaFortune). 
All are welcome. Keep the faith and love alive. Be a part of the action. I'll see you there. 

AUDITIONS! The Flanner/Siegfried players are looking for guys/gals to star in the hilarious comedy "Lend Me a 
Tenor". Interested should come to the Flanner penthouse on Tues. or 
Wed. from 8:30-10:30 PM 
Interested in playing field hockey this fall? Come to Knott at 7 p.m. Tuesday for more info. Call Christy at 272-9455 with any questions. 
................................ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY KRISTI LOVE SECTION 1 B 
Hey, you Limeys. 
Anyone from last semester's 
London Program is welcome to attend a reunion party at Nick Capozzola's tonight. 233-2289 

30 Lafayette Sq. Leave weapons 
at home. 

To the tanned and beautiful Kim who lives on South Quad and is in Air Force ROTC, you are the love of my life! Write back if interested in meeting me! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANNE FRAN! IT'S ANNE HURLEY'S 21st BIRTH­DAY TODAY, SO DON'T FORGET TO WISH HER A HAPPY BIRTH­DAY. 
...... 21"'**.. Anne Hurley is 21"'* hope you have a great day. don't forget to live it up, love your roomie, Gretch 
Model United Nations 
D.C. Conference Top 10list 

10. We're going to be with real peo­ple who countl 
9. I HATE dresses that button up the front. 
8. A tendentious cacaphony of bet­tonage. 
7. It's yellow! It's yellow I say! 
6. We need Safe-T-Manl 

5. Are you still carrying that RICE?! 
4. We'll sell solar powered flash­lights and multi-cultural bandaids! 
3. I'm NOT marrying GENE!! 

2. Don't you feel moist? Stacie. I think that's a personal problem! 
1. War with China? I? Jesusllll! 
1ru1ru1ru1ru1ru1ru1ru1ru1ru 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY, KRISTIII! 

HAVE A GREAT YEAR! -Cindy 
The American Cancer Society is sponsoring a 5K & 1 0 K Breast Cancer Awareness Run on 9/30 in downtown Mishawaka. If interested call Nicole@ x1318. 
ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE ------First Meeting · ----• 
This week: WALTZ and intro to ballroom dancing 
6:30 PM tonight at Stepan Center 
• 
professional instruction 

• 
free dancing 


• 
lots of new faces • one of the campus's largest 


organizations All who signed up at activites night are welcome! Bring a friend! 
• • • -• • -• • -* -• •
-. ---• .. * -.. 
College Football Hall of Fame 
Needs Volunteers 
Call 235-9999 

see CLASS I page 14 
Tuesday, September 12, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Students who knew shocked, dismayed 
By SARAH TAYLOR 
News Writer 
Their great hero is about to go under the knife, but ND students across campus were eaught unaware by the break­ing news. 
The vast majority of polled students expressed great shock and amazement at the news of Coach Lou Holtz's emergency surgery. Clearly, this information has been a well-kept secret. 
"I was surprised; I hadn't heard anything about it until today," said Rob Holcomb, an Alumni freshman. 
St. Ed's junior Matthew George was equally amazed by the news. "I just barely heard about it," he stated. 
Those select few in the know, however. are devastat­ed. "It's going to be interesting to see how the team reacts." said junior John Blood, also of St. Ed's. "It's going to be sad, too." 
The overall worry for Holtz's health was paralleled by an equal concern for his team. Lewis sophomore Shannon Norton stated, "I just hope that he gets better. I just hope that he comes baek before the end of the season." 
Holcomb also expressed interest in the fate of the foot­ball team. "I just hope it doesn't affect our season." 
Others, however, are opti­mistic. Though the temporary loss of Holtz's coaching ability will profoundly affect the team, the game must go on under other expertise. 
George is one of the hopeful. "Bob Davie is a pretty good coach, though; he should be able to do alright," he stated. 
John Walser, a Fisher senior, expressed his dismay simply, yet fervently. "That sucks!" he exclaimed. Perhaps the rest of the campus would react with equal passion, if only it knew. 
THE WORLD IS HUNGRYFOR YOUR HELP 
We have a tmique opportunity for someone very special. 
A chc.nce to spend two years in another cotmtry. To live and work in another culture. To learn a new language, acquire new skills and sharpen existing ones. 
The person we're looking for might be an accountant, a forester or a nurse. Or maybe a teacher, a farmer, or a recent college grad. 
We need someone to join the over 6,500 people already working in 93 developing cotmtries around the world. Someone who can help others to help themselves. 
Call to find out more about Peace Cops opporttmities.
800-424-8580 E-mail: chicago®peacecorps.gov 
Evening Presentation Center for Social Concerns Tuesday, October 3 8:00-9:30 
......~ 
•'\v'"~~... 
·~-. ~·.PEACE CORPS 
~ The toughest job you'll ever love. 
. 'lf.J.,.tfiJr. 
Vnluntccr.. J1 u·t ~US Cllllcn.• and mL<t:l utllCI' 4ua11ru.:atwns. 11'1C term nf scrv1ce tstwo ycaB. There Ill no upper age llmil. rt!'llrt" Cnrpli Wtk.Jiht' be:Jt qutthflt!d Amt!ncan!t and docs nut discriminate nn the basis uf ract!, ~x, reliRion, age or !ll!xual urienta1111n 
J ZZMAN's 
GRILL & BAR 
525 N. Hill Street 
GEORGE & THE FREAKS 
A FUNKY PENNY TUESDAY PRIVATE COLLEGE NIGHT PARTY 
•Open 
only to NO, SMC, & HCC Students,Staff, and guests 

•Upper 
grilllevel18 and over•lower bar level21 and over 


•Student ID & driver's license required for lower level. 
•SS 
donation before 11 pm • S6 after 11 pm. 

•No 
admittance to anyone under 21 after 11 pm (unless in line before the cut off) 



· spicy mouth-watering food and other specials an guest D)s playing during band breaks. 
" 
For Info on giving your own private party at }azzman's ca/1233-8505 Mon-Sat 4pm-3am 
Every Tuesday is 
fUNKY PENNY TUESDAY PRIVATE COLLEGE NIGHT 
No admittance without Student/Staff ID! 
Holtz 
continued from page 1 
Moriarity continued. 
After viewing previous medi· cal history and conducting sev­eral tests over the past week, doctors narrowed it down to sixteen possible conditions. Fifteen of them were terminal. 
"He had a great sense of relief when he found what it was," athletic director Mike Wadsworth said. "The sixteenth diagnosis, the non-terminal one, was his." 
Moriarity explained that the spinal cord, which is normally shaped like a lima bean, takes the shape of a banana when it is compressed. The passage­way, which is normally shaped like a doughnut, is pinched in Holtz's case, putting pressure on the spinal cord. 

"It looks like in an X-Ray that there's a napkin ring around the spinal cord," Moriarity con­tinued. 
The damage is a degenerative process, one that can only be stopped by surgery, which was the determination of the several physicians that attended to the Irish coach. 
''I've seen three different doc­tors, trying to find the least bit of encouragement to delay this," Holtz said in a statement. "But they all say it has to be done now." 
The procedure is not an un­common one, with a morbidity rate being well less than one percent. Doctors are hoping that he will be able to perform all of his regular functions after recovery. 
In the meantime, the football team rests in the hands of Davie, Notre Dame's second-
Huskers lose star 
By DAVE ZELIO 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Just two weeks into the col­lege football season, defending champion Nebraska is a team in turmoil. And it has nothing to do with losing games. 
The Cornhuskers' two top running backs, including Heisman Trophy contender Lawrence Phillips, were arrest­ed during the weekend for allegedly assaulting former girl­friends. 
Another Nebraska player, reeeiver Riley Washington, was charged with attempted murder in early August and is awaiting trial. 

Coach Tom Osborne kicked Phillips off the team Sunday night, but hinted Monday the junior's eollege career might not be over. 
"Obviously, we've lost a great player," Osborne said. "Lawrenee was playing as well as any I-back we've had in a long time ... Unfortunately, he will not play for quite a while, if at all." 
Osborne said he didn't sus­pend the other arrested rune ning baek, junior Damon Benning, because he believes Benning is innocent. 
Osborne said he dismissed Phillips after determining the player was involved in an assault. 

Tired ofyour friends? Go to Ireland! 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
Sept. 12 
7:00p.m. 
Room 303 
Haggar College 
Center 
Saint Mary's Campus 

Sept 13 7:00p.m. Montgomery Theatre LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame Campus 
Students discuss study at St. Patrick's College, Maynooth, Ireland . Everyone welcome! 
EARN EXTRA MONEY AS A GRADUATE OF THE H & R BLOCK INCOME TAX COURSE 
Thousands of people learn how to prepare Income tax returns from H&R Block and then earn money as Income tax preparers. H&R Block, the world's largest Income tax preparation service, offers Its Income Tax Course starting the week of September 11. Morning, afternoon, evening, and weekend classes are avail­able. 
Experienced instructors teach tax law theory, and applica­tion. Classroom discussion and practice problems pro­vide students with a thorough understanding of each tax topic Included in the course. Students learn how to handle Increasingly complex income tax situations as the course progresses. 
Ideal for people who want to Increase their tax knowledge, the course teaches students how to save money on their taxes and also prepares them for a rewarding career. 

One course fee Includes all textbooks and supplies. Graduates receive Certificates of Achievement and continu­ing education units (CEUs). Qualified graduates of the course may be offered job interviews with H&R Block but are under no obligation to accept employment. 
Those Interested In more information about the H&R Block Income Tax Course may call 
1-800-TAX-2000 
or259-6925 
AC0039 

year defensive coordinator. 
"What's important right now for this football team is for Lou Holtz to get healthy and for this team to stay focused on Vanderbilt," Davie said. 
Davie will still handle the de­fense, while offensive coordina­tor Dave Roberts will call the plays on offense and assistant coach Tom Clements wili han­dle the administrative duties. 
"I think it'll be very important the message these coaches give in these first few days," Wadsworth continued. "To show their enthusiasm, that they're pulling together and that they're putting together good game plans for Vanderbilt, Texas and for what­ever else that comes up before Lou returns." 
Holtz captured his 200th ca­reer game against Purdue Saturday. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Lacrosse -First informational meeting will be Sept. 14, in the Montgomery Theater, 1st floor of LaFortune at 7:00p.m. Any questions call Allison 239­7924 or Erin x2639 
Off-Campus Soccer -Need guys for the Off-Campus Intramural soccer team. Call David Shaw at 277-3203 
Irish Outdoors -Irish Out­doors will be holding an informationaVorganizational meeting for those interested in becoming involved with the group. Officers will dis­cuss the nature of the group, upcoming events, ect. In addition, new and continuing members may submit mem· bership sheets and club dues. The meeting will be held in the Montgomery Theater, 1st floor LaFortune, at 9:00 p.m., Thursdaf· Sept. 14. For additi.ona Information, con­tact Chris Lary at 273-3154. 
Climbing Wall Orientations -All Climbing Wall participants must com­plete a Climbing Wall Orientation session before they can have "open" use of the wall. Orientations are scheduled every Sunday (beginning Sept. 17) from 12:30-2:00 and every other Thursday (beginning Sept. 
14) from 5:30-7:00. Ad· vanced registration at the Rockne front desk for these sessions is required, but space is limited. 
Ski Club -All students interested in any Ski Club activities or trying out for the ski team should attend an informational meeting on Tuesday, Sept. 12 at 8:00 
p.m. in 118 Neiwland. Any questions contact Ryan at 273·2420. 
Please Recycle The Observer 


•Nit. Lllp. Slllar Tl'ljii)U:51i, 3:05,6:10, 7:35, B:41i 
•
A1M Ia bg ArtUI (PG) 1:m, UO, 6:35, 7:48, 8:61 

•Til 
Palg (PG) 1:46,4:15,7:11,8:41 •Cillal (PG-13) 7:25,8:35 

•DI 
~C. (PG)l::ll, U5, li:!i •A WlliiDI Cll1lll (PG-13) 1:D0,3:8,6:41.7:1ili,1t1D 

•LIN 
lfllilrllla (R} Ull,4:38,7:81,t.:ll ~ IIIII (G) 1:11i,t.JU;11i,7:!1,1:H • ~ JIQIIIIIIIb ilyda(PG-13) 1:11i.t15.5:211,7:11,8:51i 


• -~~~~~~~~ (R} 1:011,1 D-.20 • ~G-13) 1:35,3:46,5:46 • ~ Sllll 2(8} 1:1U:75.5:11, 7:50,10:110 
,, 7:l All SFAr$ IH~Oit~ &Pl,l 
• rlO PAS~~b SUI>lii~AI'tR",..Io(Wo£ ~Tf G 


Bookstore Basketball XXV 
Interested in becoming a Bookstore Commissioner? 
PICKUP AN APPLICATION IN THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
OFFICE, 
3RD FLOOR 
LAFORTUNE. 

Union fate hinges on decertification vote 
By WENDY E. LANE 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Will Michael Jordan's decertification effort carry the day or will his NBA colleagues back their union and a new labor deal? The answer will come Tuesday, when players' votes are counted. 
But even that won't neces­sarily be the end of the NBA's tangled labor dispute. What happens next -and how longer the lockout continues -will be determined by who wins and by how much. 
"We believe we've won," said Jeffrey Kessler, the lawyer representing Jordan, Patrick Ewing and other play­ers pushing to disband the union. 
"I think it will be a real rev­
elation to people," said an 
equally confident Simon Gour­
dine, the union's executive di­
rector. 
The losers, however, are 
likely to challenge the election 
results, erecting legal road­
blocks that could delay the 
opening of training camp on 
Oct. 6 and drag on past Nov. 
3, when the season is sched­
uled to start. 
Votes in the election to 
determine whether the NBA 
players' association will con­
tinue to represent the players 
or be disbanded will be count­
ed publicly by National Labor 
Relations Board officials 
Tuesday afternoon. 
In balloting on Aug. 30 and 
Sept. 7, players cast their 
votes in large numbers, the 
heavy turnout believed to 
benefit the union. 
A vote for retaining the 
union was considered a vote 
for a proposed labor agree­
ment, one many players said 
they cast reluctantly. If the 
union wins the election, 21 of 
the league's 27 player repre­
sentatives must still formally 
ratify the new deal Wednesday 
at a meeting in Chicago. 
The margin of the victory 
could well determine how the 
player reps. vote. In June~ they 
killed a proposed agreement 
by tabling a vote. 
However, union leaders have said they expect the deal to be ratified this time. That would clear the way for team owners to approve the agree­ment at a scheduled Sept. 18 meeting and lift the lockout begun July 1. 

"Our expectation is if the union has a clear victory in the voting next week, we will ask the owners to ratify it and end the lockout," NBA deputy commissioner Russ Granik said. "The fact that challenges may be pending is something we'll have to take a look at." 
After casting his vote last week, Jordan didn't seem inclined to continue his fight for dissolving the union if the players vote against it. 
"If (decertification) doesn't carry, then the players have spoken their minds, and that's all I ask," Jordan said. "If the majority of players choose to accept this deal, I'm with them, I'm with the majority ­as long as two years down the road they can live the reper­cussions of what this deal is going to give them." 
Jordan and Ewing have been the most vocal proponents of decertification, arguing that players can get a more favor­able labor agreement by dis­solving the union and pursu­ing an antitrust lawsuit against the league. 
Despite Jordan's conciliatory words, one agent says Kessler and other agents are certain to dispute the election results if decertification fails. Keith Glass, who represents 13 cur­rent NBA players, resigned last week from the agents' group pushing for decertifica­tion, saying he was fed up with the propaganda coming from all three sides in the dis­pute. 
"I don't think the group I just resigned from will go qui­etly into the night," Glass said. "They're going to do anything they can to overturn the vote." 
If the union gets thrown out, it or the NBA will probably challenge the election, trigger­ing an NLRB investigation. The NLRB is already probing the league's unfair labor prac­tice complaint against the agents' group. 
• MEN's SoccER 
Irish 
crack 
top ten 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame men's soc­cer team, 3-0 on the season, has achieved its highest rank­ing in school history as they ascended to sixth in the Intercollegiate Soccer Association of America poll, released Monday. 
Coach Mike Berticelli's squad was unranked in the ISAA pre­season poll, and now find themselves with their first-ever top-10 appearance. In addition to being ranked sixth, Notre Dame is first in the Great Lakes Region poll, ahead of 12th­ranked Indiana. 
Notre Dame has outscored its 
opponents 18-0 in its first three 
outings, posting wins over 
DePaul (8-0), Valparaiso (7-0) 
and Syracuse (3-0). The victo­
ry over the Orangemen was the 
first in the Big East -for the 
Irish. 
Senior forward Bill Lanza is 
among the national leaders in 
scoring with four goals and six 
assists for 14 points. He is first 
nationally in assists, second in 
scoring and ninth in goals 
scored. 
Goalkeepers Peter Van de 
Yen and Greg Velho are first 
nationally in goals against 
average. 
Notre Dame will take its 
unblemished ·record to New 
Jersey this weekend to face two 
Big East opponents. The Irish 
will meet seventh-ranked 
Rutgers on Friday and then 
Seton Hall on Sunday. 


University o Notre Dame International Study Program in 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
"Stories from Abroad" With Professor Marie -Antoinette Kremer 
Wednesday September 13, 1995 4:30pm 114 O'Shaughnessy 
Returning students wiiJ be on hand to answer questions. 
eDatin 
Dates Great. g 
I 
I 
I 
Tuesday, September 12, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 I I 
REJUDI EDU TI RK.SH 







1t tpJ«-aM .,....·..,...........,. ~------Ut ~ t6 

~ ~ up lt(U(,I-1

The Multicultural Executive Council is offering students, staff, and professors the opportunity to participate in this diversity sensitivity workshop. 
Limited Enrollment--Call Immediately SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 24 
8:30 A.M. • 1:30 P.M. 
NOTRE DAME ROOM 2ND FLOOR 
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 
BREAKFAST AND LUNCH WILL BE PROVIDED 
THIS WORKSHOP IS BEING PRESENTED BY THE NOTRE DAME 
AFFILIATE OF THE NATIONAL COALITION BUILDING INSTITUTE 
Contact: Mickey Franco • 631..4355 Adele Lanan • 631"'7308 
------------------' 
I I I 
I 
j 
'
. 
' 
. i. 
I 
.t. ~ 
; 
·,I 
'I 
' 
' 
. . . 
• ~t ••' I
..... 
. . :··· 
,.. 
..1 
::· t 
~ \ . ·' 
.. ' 

Top 10 Most Coveted from Summer Orgo 
• SAINt Mtuw's Vou..neAu 
10.Lettuce 'N Dirt

Class 
9.Pocahontas Chess Pieces 8.Biues Traveler continued from page 10 ?.Mary's Jan)tor Keys 
Belles struggle on the road 
6.Red Brown Chicago Bricks Top 15 quotes from Summer Orgo: 5.Triple Grenade Launcher By STEPHANIE BUEK eluded. according to Schroeder-Biek. 15.1 wish I had some colored chalk 4.Chris's Nike Hat 
Sports Writer 
While the eyes of the campus were glued to the action in West Lafayette Saturday, the Saint Mary's volleyball team saw some action of their own at Hope College in Holland, Michigan. 
Down two games to none, 16­18 and 4-15, the Belles rallied back to tie Hope at two games apiece, 15-11 and 15-12. However, they could not hold on in the match-deciding fifth game, losing 15-9 in rally scor­ing. 
After dropping their home opener Thursday against a sim­ilarly matched Calvin squad, the Belles traveled to Hope looking not only to perfect a weak passing game, but to re­establish a winning attitude. Despite the loss, Head Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek saw out­standing improvement toward those ends. 
"I saw so much improvement from the game we showed at 
· home," said Schroeder-Biek. "They were two games down, and they showed spirit and heart winning three and four. Defensively, things are going better: we got more digs and kept the ball in play. We will keep drilling and fine-tuning those things in practice," fin­ished Schroeder-Biek. Freshman middle attack Laura Schreeg attributed the team's improvement to a focus on communication in practice. According to Schreeg, the team's work on constant com­munication in practice paid off in match play against Hope. "We have been working on constant chatter and communi­cation in practice," said Schreeg. "We really grew throughout the match. and even though we lost, we got something out of it," she con-
FREE 
PHONE CALLS 
An exaggeration? Not if you're spending more than 25 bucks a month talking to people in Elkhart, Goshen, Bristol, Dunlap, Middlebury and Wakarusa areas. Why pay high long distance ch~rges when you can pa1 a low flat montlhy feefl You can call as often and talk as long as you wish for only $23.00 per month. No special lines or installation needed. We can start your service today! 
1-800-360-4990 
A& 
\'ARSITY SHOP 
... 


An altered team attitude gave "When the passes are there, I 14.1t's time to see the forest thru the trees. 3.Cyclohooters 13.Mr.Phipps Peeler Chips 2.BFP's
rise to perfected play, accord­can get involved in the attack; it 
12.Excuse me, do you have change for a 1.Majed's Bookholder 
ing to sophomore setter Kelly keeps my options open," said 
$5 bill? Meyer. Though a weak passing Meyer. 11.For all practical puposes Transfer Transfer 
game plagued the Belles' per­"Now that we have overcome 10.Uke our friend w/ the chiral hand. 
formance against Calvin last passing, I can run different 9.My, how time flies ... it's already 88 after Hey ANONYMOUS lair-weather 38 ... Jeez! fan(s), who called for Coach 
week, Hope saw a new perspec­options to the hitters. I can call 
8.Everything has a mirror image ... except Holtz's resignation. Why don't you 
tive of the Belles' offense. the plays, instead of keeping 
vampires. do us all a favor and: 
Solid passes to Meyer gave the the hitters in the dark about ?.Bend it ever so slightlyBelles the opportunity to run an who is going to get the next 6.Backside attacks Transfer Transfer efficient offense. set," Meyer concluded. 5.Just Stop It! 
"Everything improved, espe­Though the Belles have made 4.T -W-0-W-E-E-K-S P. Maloney, L. Fogarty, F. Santoni 3.Chiralityll
cially the passes. The passing progress toward their goals, 
2.BFP 

was wonderful, so I could get they still have work to do. Now 
1.1t's going to be a long summer!! the ball to everyone. We never 1-2, the ·Belles are their own Interested in getting a great set of ABS?? 
gave them a free ball; we worst enemy, often beating Sign up now atRecsports: @ !#($% *$&A$(*A%(*!@ )*$$( 
attacked everything," said themselves with minor mis­Sundays 440pm-510pm Rockne 301 -Advanced Abs-
Meyer. takes, such as free ball errors 
EVE IS A LOSER 1/2 hour of intense ab work for $121111
After overcoming weak pass­and mental lapses in play. 
EVE IS A LOSER ing, the Belles' next focus is The Belles return home EVE IS A LOSER mixing up the offense and today, hosting Heidelberg Scared?-weren't ya??? working with Meyer on differ­College at Angela Athletic For 2 Navy tix, I'll do anything. Really. Call 
!@#@%$$&"()*(A"/o$###@! Frank at 4-3389 
ent offensive combinations, Facility at 7 o'clock. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications: 
Photo Editor 
Please submit a one page statement of intent and resume to John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, by Wednesday, September 13. Call 1-4542 with any questions. 
.NPR RAM 
INFORMATION MEETING FOR FALL '96 AND SPRING '97 Tuesday, Septemb~r 12, 1995 
101.DeBartolo 
·6:BciP~f 



Tl!esday, September 12, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 




CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  35 Pit  
1 Grocery holders  36 Islamic prayer  
5 60's  --sign  portion  
10 Gradient  38 French noggins  

41 Not main

14 Henry Gray's subj. 42 Miss Garbo 
15 Inert gas 44 Barbershop 18 Slangy suffix 
quartet member 
48 Conducted11 "Spoon River" 

anthologist 47 "Seven Keys to 20 Cowboy's rope Baldpate" author
21 Arab chieftain's jurisdiction 51 Edison's middle 22 Tolstoy's llyich 
name 

52 He sang about photo or type 
25 Prefix with 
Alice 28 "On Boxing" 53 Shelley's elegy 
essayist to Keats 33 Cry of surprise 56 Sea eagles 34 Peggy 60 "Red Square" 
Ashcroft's title novelist 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ACHE ELLASIMEGS LOOM DAUNT APEN 
LIMO BAPHONE SLOT IRK GRACIE -PIN~S ANOTHER YAHOOS SPASM 
ALO"IMOR ...AMIO 
WAN.SEC••EMU L I E F ~~ T S L 0 G A N OMITS BECAME 


PAR C E L S B L E E P­A R 0 US ··~~~AHA B 
SOUSAPHONE NONO TOTEISOLED INTO A M E S Y E A T S C E E S 
Iu ~ 
0 
~ ~ 
13
:,: 

64 Kyrgy.<:;tan's ··----Mountains 65 Reason why 66 Breakout, of a sort 67 D.C. pols 68 Violinist Mischa 69 Actress Patricia 
DOWN 
1 Boxer Max 2 "The King--" 3 Dotty 4 Sign of an 
approaching storm 5 Buddy 6 "Able was I-­" 
1 Add years a Regain consciousness 9 Tooth covering 10 Places of 
privacy 11 Department 12 Death: Fr. 
30 Sheer cotton 13 Sit for a camera 31 Caboose, e.g. 18 Wrote a 
four-star review 32 Burpee
products
19 Missile sites 
37 Legendary
23 " ... ~ay to skin 
island 
39 E,xile island
24 Dub 40 Start waking up
26 Author Amado 
27 Scarlett of Tara 43 Statesman Stevenson
28 One who teams up oxen 45 Eyes thighs, e.g.
29 Apply more pitch to 48 Show clearly 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1995 (For your personalized daily Jeane Dixon horoscope, based on your own date of birth, call 1-900-988-7788. Your phone company will bill you 99 
cents a minute.) HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Reach for the impossible dream. Old friends will play an instrumental role in a business or career victory. A clever money-making suggestion deserves further thought. Act before someone else has the same idea! A home computer could become a necessity. Compare prices. Early in 1996, a loved one will return to the fold. Exciting professional gains are featured next May. A coveted assignment falls into your lap. CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Olympic legend Jesse Owens, country singer George Jones, singer Maria Muldaur, soap actress Irene Dailey. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Domestic mailers could dominate, no maller how hard yo_u try to get away. A transition will be easier if you can bring yourself to compro­mise with a stubborn individual. TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can strengthen family ties by being a good listener. Respond quickly to overdue bills. Eagerly­awaited news regarding an educa­tional maller arrives. Celebrate! A slump in earnings is over. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): New job demands could require overtime. Mate or partner will be understanding. A hands-on hobby provides a perfect outlet for your artistic talents. Your enthusiasm for a promising relationship is justified. Be patient. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Love begets love. Have faith in your partner; happiness will follow. It may not be smooth sailing at work. Keep a low profile. Avoid disclos­ing your financial assets to anyone you do not know well. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your professional instincts are excellent. A long-distance call tum your plans topsy-turvy. Postpone making an important decision until up-to-date infom1ation is available. 
I'LL START OUT AS AN 
ANNOYING RODENT BUT WITH f-\ARD WORK AND TRAINING 'I'LL WORK MY WAY UP. TO ENGINEER 

• OF INTEREST 
A focus on Interviewing techniques and career opportunities is being offered for Arts and Letters stu· dents. It is being presented by representatives f'rom Alliance for Catholic Education, Leo Burnett, Goldman, Sachs & Co., E.J. Gallo and McKinsey and Company tonight in the Hesburgh Ubrary Auditorium f'rom 7:00 .. 8:30P.M. It is open to all majors and is sponsored by the Office of Career & Placement Services. 
A Food Service Training Workshop will be held tonight and pn Tuesday, Sept. 26th in LaFortune Student Center in Montgomery Theater at 4:00 P.M. 
For students Interested In studying In Angers, France for the 1996-97 Academic Year there will be a meeting tonight in Room 117 O'Shaughnessy. There will be a presentation entitled, "A Day in the Life of an Angevin" with Professor Paul McDowell. Returning students will be on hand to answer questions and applications will be available. All are welcome! 
The Toastmasters Public Speaking Organlza· tion starts their weekly Tuesday meetings tonight in 122 Hayes-Healy from 7:00-8:00P.M. Learn to speak well and have fun in a relaxed and social atmosphere. 
Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers applica­tions are due this Wednesday, September 13th, in the CSC. It is an opportunity for junior and senior pre· med students to gain exposure to careers in medicine through a weekly hospital internship and various guest 
49 Naughty one 57 Not naughty 

speakers. lf there are any questions, call Michelle at 
50 First Miss 58 Europe's 

4-2710.
America highest volcano Margaret-­
59 Writer 53 Part of a Latin I Silverstein 

•MENU 
trio 61 Drink from 

Notre Dame
54 Broad valley Jamaica 

North South
62-Today55 Algerian 

Chinese Pork Roast ChickenRomano
seaport 63 Buddhism 

Poached Orange Roughy Sugar Snap Peas 
Au Gratin Potatoes Rissole Potatoes 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

Saint Marv's 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

Chicken and. Dumplings 
VIRGO Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Tum in a sterling perfonnance today and YIPs will be impressed. Your out­look on life mailers to others, and should maller to you. Aim for the stars! Focus on meeting the needs of a teen-ager. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22}: If asked for an unbiased opinion, give it -but watch yourself in the clinches. Not everyone will agree with your conclusions. A well­designed exercise and nutrition pro­gram will leave you feeling more energetic. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Keep expenses down if self­employed. Long-distance phone calls can take the place of costly travel. Catch up on your profession­al reading. Discretion is essential when talking to a member of the opposite sex. 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Gelling be!ler organized on the homefront will let you enjoy your leisure hours more. Keep close rela­tives advised of any pressing finan­cial commitments; it will help them understand when you must say "no." • 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Your artistic or creative powers are at an all-time high. Seek profes­sional advice on marketing them, even if you must sign with a; agent. Get all promises in writing. Your mate's behavior has you wondering. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. !8): Guard against boredom by taking care of routine mailers early in the day. Then turn your auenlion to something challenging! Business transactions can be completed tn record time. Domestic i~sues domi­nate tonight. Make concessions. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Avoid people who ask too many personal questions. Remind them that you are entitled to privacy. Communication with a parent improves when you forget old ani­mosities. See people and situations as they really arc . 


1"\AY 1 SUGGEST 
A CAREER IN MARKETING 7 
...__/ 
IS THIS THE CUTEST LITTLE BRIEFCASE OR 
WHAT 7 I 
\ 

From New Buffalo to the Dunes • Picnic Lunch at the Dunes Included Transportation Provided • Register in Advance at RecSports Fee is $8.00 • Space is Limited Helmets Required 
631-6100 
SPORTS 

Tuesday, September 12, 1995 
Holtz sidelined 

Players stunned 
after early a.m. 
meeting breaks 
surgery news 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Spons Editor 
Through all the controversy 
that has surrounded the Notre 
Dame football program over 

.. the last two years, there has always been the stabilizing force of Lou Holtz. Whether it has been on-the-field difficul­ties or off-the-field disciplinary problems, Holtz has been the one constant in a complex equation. Now, after announcing that he well undergo major spinal cord surgery, he and his health are variables, as are the reac­tions of his players and assis­tant coaches. Judging be the sentiments expressed yesterday, the reac­The Observer/Kevin Klau tion was quite mixed. Lou Holtz won't be able to lead from the sidelines for several weeks Initially, though, the reaction due to upcoming surgery. Holtz captured his 200th win on Saturday. 
was nothing but quiet disbelief. 

"We had the meeting in the morning in Loftus and we had no idea it was coming," junior flanker Scott Sollmann "There was just dead silence in the room." 
Surprise was certainly one of the themes of the day. 
"The announcement was a total shock," said senior strong safety Brian Magee. "It's al­ready been a rough season. We've lost a lot of people and now for this to happen, it's tough." 
There had been some hint that something was wrong with Holtz's health, but nothing in­dicated the seriousness of the condition. 
"All week, I've noticed that 
he seemed  a little different,"  
freshman  Kory  Minor  
explained.  "Now that I think  

about it, he did ask us to watch out for him on the sideline this week. As a matter of fact, I don't think he ran out onto the field with us. He said he was having trouble running. 
"But we never knew this was going on. It's just tough to pic­ture Coach Holtz not being on the sideline." 
The Irish will have to get used to his absence, at least for three to four weeks. They are confident, though, that good will come from this. 
"This is going to drive us even more and force us to go the extra mile," Minor noted. "All day, Coach Davie told us that we have to grow together as a team. In certain respects, we need to treat this as a posi­tive." 
That started yesterday in practice and should continue. 
"He just told us to go out and win this one for him," Minor said. 
For that to happen, the leadership slack is going have to be taken up not just by the coaches, but by the team's on­the-field leaders. 
"We, as seniors, need to step up and take over," said Magee. "We need to keep this team fo­cused and together." 
But for the present time, much of the thinking of the squad is still with Coach Holtz and his health. 
"He means a lot to us," Minor said. "He'll be all right and so will we." 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Gerardo, Renola spur victory over UW 
By DAVE TREACY Another key moment in the game can Spons Writer be attributed to the prowess of Renola. The most promising scoring opportunity Sometimes, everything seems so sim­for the Badgers, who had six shots on ple. goal as opposed to 21 for the Irish, came A game often can be reduced to a few in the first half. The Badgers had a free moments which really constitute the kick from 35 yards out, and the heart of the contest. In a game with a Wisconsin player put the ball into the 
narrow margin of victory, these mo­box, where another Badger gathered it ments are crucial. in from about 10 yards out. So, in this weekend's 1-0 win over "She was wide open on my right, and 18th-ranked Wisconsin, it is fortunate 
she took a shot at the near post, but I that the Irish were the proud owners of deflected it out to the right. It was no these important moments. big deal," Renola recounted. 
·Freshman Monica Gerardo was one of 
It may not have been a big deal to her, the most prominent contributors to the but her play maintained the 1-0 lead cause with the only goal of the game. that never increased. The attacking forward stripped a 
"Jen saved a breakaway in the Indiana Badger defender of the ball in the mid­game when we were only up 1-0, and dle of the first period, and beat the 
she had the big save against Wisconsin. opposing goalie on the breakaway with 
She is highly responsible for our last two a shot to the lower. right corner of the victories," Petrucelli added. 
net. After winning their last three contests "The fullback had a bad collection, so 
by an average score of over seven goals,I stepped in and took it from her. All I 
the narrow margin of victory seems sur­
.. 
had to do was dribble in and put it on prising. But make no mistake, the· score net," Gerardo said. 
indicates the talent differential between Gerardo has been a surprise to some, 
Big Ten power Wisconsin and their 
scoring nine goals in the first four 
three previous opponents, not any lack games of the season. But, there are oth­
of effort on Notre Dame's part. because they tried to keep us from scor­they'd be a tough team to play," Gerardo ers who predicted her success. "We played a very good team on ing, instead of trying to play an offensive said. "I knew that she'd score a lot for us Sunday, definitely one of the best teams game. They stopped us from playing Another positive outcome of the gamethis year," said co-captain Jen Renola. 
in the region," said Irish head coach our game. It's hard to execute a game was the use of midfielder Cindy Daws. "She's the type of player who can find 
Chris Petrucelli. "The expectations set plan when the other side isn't attack­Daws came back from a pulled quadri­the goal and put the ball in the net. I'm 
for our team after our last three games ing." ceps injury to substitute in against the sure she'll continue to produce for us." were not realistic-we're not going to "They were a much different team Badgers, playing limited minutes. "Monica is a goal scorer." Petrucelli 
score seven goals every game." than we are. We're a passing team, "I'm happy to see her back, and hope­echoed. "If you give her a chance, she's "They played well defensively," Renola and they were more of a kick-and-run­fully it's an indication that she's ready to going to score." 
agreed. "They were a difficult opponent team. But we knew going in there that play more minutes," Renola said. 

Football • Men's soccer ascends in the polls 
vs. Vanderbilt 
Women's Soccer 
see page 12

September 16, 1:30 EST 
vs. Michigan State September 15,7:30 
vs. Stanford September 16, Noon
SPORTS 

at 

Volleyball • Student reactions to Holtz's surgery 
at Mortar Board Premiere Sept. 15-16 
West Lafayette, Ind. 
Cross Country 
see page 11 at Ohio State September 15 
;· ·. 
~ 

Men's Soccer • Saint Mary's volleyball struggles 
' -->t 

at Rutgers Sept. 15/Seton Hall Sept. 17 see page 14
GLANCEj~ 






