
Tuesday, November 14, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 56 
RHA members resign, cite lack of respect 
By PATTI CARSON 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Much to the astonishment of its audience, each executive board member of the Hesi­deru:e llall Association (HHAI read her resignation letter at last night's meeting, and the resignations went into effect as of H:OO a.m. today. 
Though tlw meeting ran as n~gularly scheduled, the execu­tive board memhnrs stood near thn dose of the meeting to dis­cuss with those prnsent their nxneutivn board concerns. All lt!ltPrs worn addressed to Dr. Linda Tiinm. Vice President of Student Affairs. And each hoard mnrnber proceeded to rnad lwr letll~r. 
"My resignation stems from my eonenrn for the unmitigated lack of understanding, respect and support from the Resi­dence Life Staff both in the manner in which I've at­tempted to redefine the RHA prnsidential position and the carefully and definitively plannnd goals and ideas I've eommunieated to the Associa­tion," nmd Tara Hooper, HHA l'residen't. . 
llnr letter continund: "In my attmnpts to facilitate a forum for discussion of issues and polidns that conetwn and affect n1sidnnts and to challenge my peers, advisors. and adminis­trators to rise to a new ltJvel of commitment and responsibility 
Rubin takes steps to avoid default 
Clinton vetoes GOP stopgap spending bill 
By JAMES RUBIN Assuuatcd Pre's 
WASHINGTON 

Tlw administration moved swiftly today to avoid defaulting on the federal dt!bl after Pmsident Clinton vetoed a bill raising the gov­nrnrnent's borrowing authority. 
Treasury Secmtary Hobert Huhin announced a series of 
• see BUDGET, page 6 
moves, including plans for juggling the government's books, aimed at assuring the govnrnment will make good on $102 billion in principal and interest payments due Wndrwsday and Thursday. 

Avoiding default 
What Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin might do to make sure the government can pay $102 billion in principal and interest payments currently due: 
~~ Expand the government's<3 borrowing authorityt; temporarily by drawing on two huge government-run retirement funds. 


The Treasury Department could raise the cash through auctions of three-month and six~month bills, cash 
management bills, 52-week bills and 10-year notes. 
AP/Wm. J. Castello 

day" on Tuesday. 
The moves were welcomed on Wall Street. Bond prices rose and stocks trimmed earlier losses. The Dow Jones industrial average was down about 5 points by midday. 
Rubin's actions amount to an accounting ploy that takes the two funds off the government's books and, in effect, puts IOUs in their place. 
Any interest lost by the funds 
The Treasury scheduled securities auctions to raise the money and broadly hinted Hubin would effec­tively expand the government's bor­rowing authority temporarily by drawing on two huge government­run retirement funds. 
The department said the use of the two funds probably would occur "if an ac.ceptable increase in the debt limit is not enacted by the end of the to SMC Student Government, I have been received with open hostility. Such was determi­nately communicated to me during a meeting with Suzie Orr, Director of Residence Life and Housing, on Monday November 6, 1995 at 6 p.m. in . her private office." 
The letters of the vice presi­dent. the secretary, and the treasurnr read to the same ef­fect. Barbara VanDersarl, HilA Vice President and All School Dance Chairman, stated, "Last spring this executive board was elected to office. Since that election a majority of the Resi­dence Life staff has consistently shown a lack of support for our agenda and a lack of respect for us as leaders." 
She read on: "I have regu­larly been dismissed, cut-off, and patronized in advisor meetings. Students are expect­ed to carry out their duties with a degree of professional­ism and objectivity which is not reciprocated by those in charge. Such a double stan­dard is unacceptable to me and to this executive board." 
Laura Hichter, RJIA secretary and Board of Governance RHA Hepresentative read. "It is both with pride in the group I repre­sent and distress in the admin­istrative officials who serve as my role models that I believe that I can no longer serve RHA 

As the semester winds down and finals quickly approach, students experience the difficulties of working 
in computer labs and finding quiet places to study.
see RHA I page 4 
would have to be replaced after the current budget cri­sis is resolved. 
Tapping the funds has the effect of creating more room under the $4.9 trillion debt ceiling. The ceiling itself is not raised. 
While Rubin has warned for weeks that the govern­ment was about to exhaust its borrowing authority, many private economists have said the Treasury sec­retary has power to forestall a default for months and perhaps years. 
Meanwhile, the Treasury Department said it will raise the cash to pay off interest and principal and keep the government going through a series of auctions. 
The Treasury will sell three-month and six-month bills today, cash manage­ment bills on Tuesday and 52-week bills Wednesday. Also, auctions of three-year and 10-year notes that were postponed last week will be held next week. 
'These auctions will raise · sufficient cash to enable Treasury to pay the approxi­

mately $102 billion of principal and interest on outstanding debt coming due on Nov. 15 and 16 and to dis­charge other governmental obliga­tions," the department said. 
The bill Clinton vetoed today would have raised the debt ceiling tem­porarily, but at the same time would have stripped Rubin of the authority to tap government trust funds to per­mit future borrowing. 
Debate examines women's position in Catholic Church 
By MEGAN McGRATH News Writer 
The role of women in the Catholic church was the subject of a debate held in Siegfried Hall Monday night. Frances Bernard O'Connor. CSC and Becky Drury of the Kellogg Institute re-enact­ed a debate they had at last week's Call to Action conference in Chicago. 
O'Connor and Drury have spent the past six years studying women in the Catholic Church all over the world for their work, "The race of Patri­archy." For the debate, hosted by the women's Mod Quad dorms, they discussed the role of women in their oppression within the church and whether or not women have reason to be hopeful for change. 
Drury started the debate by arguing that women themselves are responsible for their own oppres­sion . 
"Although the patriarchal model of the church was created by and for men, women accepted, embraced and embellished this system to the detriment of other women," Drury alleged. 
Because women in the Catholic church have embraced the patriarchy, they are perpetrators, not victims. According to Drury, women have accepted the status quo because of the rewards they receive and the feeling that to question doc­trine would exert too great a price. 
"The patriarchy can function only with the coop­eration and collaboration of women," Drury said. In many ways, this cooperation has come from women religious. 
"There has been a heirarchy of power among women in the church, pitting sisters against the laity," Drury said. "Sisters are put on a pedestal. They are made to be an elite group and any woman who is not is less in the church." 
see DEBATE/ page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 14, 1995 


• INsmE Cm.uMN 

With fans like these... 
It happened in an Catherine Deely instant: a split-second 
Accent Copy Editor
impact, commotion, and turmoil. Within that slice of time, an ordinary Notre Dame football Saturday took on a very unsettling twist: quarterback Ron Powlus was down on the field, distraught...and very much in pain. 
The crowd stood looking uncertainly at the scene, expressions ranged from confusion to dismay to intoxicated obliviousness. I was among the throng in the student section peering down and attempting to figure out exactly what was going on, when I began to decipher the mumblings behind me. 
"He'd better get up. We'd better not lose this game because of him," declared one extraordinarily sympathetic soul. 
"Yeah ... ifwe miss out on a Bowl because of this, it's really gonna hurt," echoed a self­impressed guy, the epitome of class. 
I couldn't believe my ears. How could Notre Dame students-people glorified as being intelligent and compassionate through their membership in the "ND Family," people who insist that they are far more concerned with making the world a better place than with winning football games-be so blatantly unfeeling? How could it be so pitifully obvi­ous that a sizable segment of the very same blue-and-gold-draped population, who were moved to tears by the strains of the Alma Mater, were far more troubled by the prospect of (gasp) falling in the AP Poll than by the sight of their supposedly adored quar­terback in agony? 
Maybe it's because, as convincingly offend­ed as they would surely appear were they faced with the accusation, many ND football followers view the players as machinery... not human beings. Play calls and downs ... not feelings. 
These so-called "fans" will cheer and rave at the pep rallies-they'll be the first to puff out their chests and proclaim "WE AREND." They'll embrace the player in the end zone. Sidle up appreciatively at parties. Maybe even ask for an autograph. But only as long as the players remain useful . If they can convert on third down, run, block, win ... they are revered. The moment they don't-the second they can't-they cease to matter. 
No matter how impressive its academic stature and historical prestige may be, there is no question that much of the aura of Notre Dame does shine around football. Somewhere along the line, this came to mean that an undefeated season and a National Championship were not merely to be hoped for, but to be expected ... every year. And so a considerable percentage of the ND communi­ty came to what they determined was an entirely reasonable expectation for the Irish players: perfection. 
Surely, since they are all gifted athletes, they feel no pain! Definitely, since they are all widely recognized across campus, they should be immune to vulnerability! Of course, since their pictures are splashed across magazines and television sets nation­wide, their sole purposes in life are to ensure that Irish fans have a warm destination come New Year's Day! 
I wonder how all of those excruciatingly empathetic fans would have reacted had they been in Powlus' place last Saturday ... had it been one of them on the ground with an arm broken and a season ended. 
I'm sure they wouldn't have felt a thing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• Tm:JAY'S STAFF 
News Production Amy Schmidt Tara Grieshop Deborah Schultz Jackie Moser Sports Dave Treacy Lab Tech Viewpoint Michael Hungeling Marry Dickinson Accent 

• WORUl AT AGLANCE 
Poll: Clinton looks better as anxiety replaces anger 
WASHINGTON s::::----=-months, according The voter anger that The American mood to the telephone 2 000
spurred the Discontented Americans dole out the blame: survey of · 
Republican revolution adults nationwide is turning to anxiety, Allin all, are you conducted Oct. 25­splitting the new GOP satisfied or 30. coalition and energiz-dissatisfied with· And those con­ing Democrats, accord-the way things are cerns appear to be
going m this 

ing to a broad new country today? costing Republicans 
study of American support among 
opinion. independents, a 
D i s c o n t e n t e d swing voting bloc 
Americans pin much of that helped vault 
the blame for their the GOP to control 
worries on Congress of Congress in 
and little on President 1994. 
Clinton, the Times Street Generally, who do you Clinton, mean-
Mirror Center for The banks and think is most while, gets stronger
responsible for the t · th

People & The Press investment nation's worst problem? suppor m e new 
found in a survey companies industry media poll from all kinds 
released Monday. ·oon't know 4% omitted of Democrats than 
"Congress has ...::..::..:..:...:...:.::..:..::..:..:.....:..:..:....::..:..:...:.....:..:..___~---------------41S GOP congressional become the focal point leaders do from all of people's complaints, even among Republicans," said but the most fiscally conservative Republicans. poll director Andrew Kohut. "As for Bill Clinton, the buck Other recent national polls also have found public sen­isn't stopping there." timent shifting away from the Republican Congress and Fears about major expenses including health care, col-rising approval ratings for Clinton amid sharp debate lege tuition, housing and retirement have risen signifi-over Medicare and other elements of the GOP's bal­cantly across the political spectrum in the past 18 anced-budget proposals. 
Yeltsin vows elections will take place 
MOSCOW 

President Boris Yeltsin increased his workload in the hospital Monday, and tried to counter the latest political rumors by vowing that elections will go ahead as scheduled. Yeltsin held sever­al official meetings and phone conver­sations from the hospital room where he is recuperating from a heart ail­ment, officials said. The president's 


work schedule now "practically corresponds" to his daily routine in the Kremlin, said presidential spokesman Sergei Medvedev. Yeltsin, 64, is not expected back at work in the Kremlin before December. His aides have released few details of his illness. In addition to close aide Viktor Ilyushin, who has been a regular visitor, the president met Monday with three top assistants he hadn't seen since he was hospitalized Oct. 26 with his second bout of heart trouble in four months, the Interfax news agency reported. On Monday, Yeltsin discussed the elec­tion campaign and other issues with chief of staff Sergei Filatov, political adviser Georgy Satarov and Vladimir Shevchenko, his chief of protocol. 
New candy bar to lower cholesterol 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Here's some health news you may find a little hard to swallow: a cholesterol-lowering candy bar. The Cardia­bar, as it's called, is not on the market yet, but its inven­tors at the University of Massachusetts say it -or some­thing like it -could have a powerful effect on people's cholesterol. The recipe doesn't sound like anything Grandma might have thought of. Each bar contained gum from the guar plant, soy protein and a variety of rice bran oil-ingredients thought to have a good effect on choles­terol. Dr. Robert Nicolosi and colleagues worked out the ingredients and had the bars made by Ross-Abbott Labs in Columbus, Ohio, which helped pay to test them. The bars were were fed to 35 men and·women whose choles­terol levels averaged a moderately elevated 263. Volun­teers who ate two a day lowered their cholesterol an im­pressive 33 points on average. When the bars will hit the market, and how much they will cost, are still unclear. 
Scientist grows 1,288 year-old seed 
LOS ANGELES 
Scientists grew a tiny green shoot from a 1,288 year-old lotus seed from China. It is believed to be the oldest seed ever germinated, and it may yield clues to how to slow aging. "This sleeping beauty, which was already there when Marco Polo came to China in the 13th century, must have a powerful genetic system to delay its aging," said Jane Shen-Miller, a plant physiologist at the University of California at Los Angeles. "It's unbelievable it could sleep for thousands of years and in four days a little green shoot emerged." The research, reported in the November issue of the American Journal of Botany, began in 1982, when Shen-Miller obtained seven brown, oval-shaped lotus seeds, each abou.t the size of a large marble, from the Beijing Institute of Botany. · The seeds came from a dry lake bed that had once been the site of a lotus lake cultivated by Buddhists who consider the flow­ering plant a sacred symbol of purity. In 1983, Shen­Miller filed through the hard shells of four of the seeds and watched three of them sprout. She then dried and burned the seedlings so she could use radiocarbon dating to establish the ages, the oldest of which was 1,288 years old. 
Sony to enter PC business 

NEW YORK 
Sony Corp. said Monday it would begin selling its own personal computers next fall, a decision that may erase the difference many consumers still perceive between home electronics and high technology. The company will join its Japanese rivals Matsushita Electric, NEC Corp., Sharp Corp. and Toshiba Corp. as a maker of personal computers as well as stereos. phones and TVs. Sony's decision has broader impact, though, because it plans a full range of models while most others concentrate on laptop PCs. In addition, Sony's brand name is highly re­garded, with a reputation for quality, sleek designs and skillful marketing. Some of its brand names are synony­mous with entire product categories. The Japanese com­pany is known for making home electronic items such as televisions. Its entry into the computer business may make consumers link high technology and home electron­ics, breaking down a perceived barrier between the two. 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 14. 
Lines separate high temperature zones lor the day. 
40s 40s 20s 
FRONTS: 

~ .............. ........,.. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PreS&JrtJ 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Victoria Pratte Ashleigh Thompson Meaghan Smith Melinda Cragan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Moqday through Friday exc~pr during exam and vacation periods. The Obsetver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are res<:rved. 

v,. Associatod Pross GraphicsNet C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Atlanta  33  32  Dallas  72  41  New Orleans 70  36  
Baltimore  42  27  Denver  41  36  New York  41  39  
Boston  40  31  Los Angeles 80  59  Philadelphia 43  29  
Chicago  31  20  Miami  78  66  Phoenix  81  55  
Columbus  37  33  Minneapolis 32  19  •  St. Louis  41  35  

Tuesday, November 14, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• SAINT MARY'S STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Craig wins gold medal 



BOG, SAB face future plans 
for career achievement
By EMILY RUFFNER •Student Affairs is preparing Auditorium, Jack Gordan will 
and CLAIRE HALBRITTER News Writers 
I loping to better gender rela­tions on the campuses, the board of governance (BOG) con­firmed last night at its meeting that the first ND/SMC forum of the semester will be held tonight at 7:30 p.m. in 126 De­Bartolo. Emphasis will be placed on last week's Observer Accent article "Switching Places." The writers of the ar­ticle, Ashleigh Thompson and Angie Kelver, will be present at the panel discussion, according to Leslie Field, ND/SMC repre­sentative. 
The board also announced the success of Spes Unica Re­source and Volunteer Center (SUHV) in its fasting project. The drivtl collected a total of $300 from student donation, according to SURV coordinator Nieole lloevet. 
for World AIDS Awareness Day with showings of the movie "The Johnsons." The movie will be shown throughout the day to attract as many viewers as possible. 
•Jack Gordon, expert on JFK, will speak in Carroll Auditorium of Madeleva Hall on Mon. Nov 20 at 7:30p.m. Jim Wand, hypnotist, will appear Nov. 30 at 7:00p.m. 
In Student Activities Board (SAB) news, the group met last evening where fast approach­ing events were discussed. One such event, Happy Hour, will be this Thursday, Nov.16. From 4:30-6:00 p.m. in Haggar Parlor acoustic guitarist Roger Day will be playing ac­companied by mocktails and free food! Admission is free to all students, faculty, and administrators. 
Coming up next Monday, Nov. 20, at 7:30 p.m., in Carroll be speaking on new develop­ments in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. Gordan is returning to Saint Mary's for the second year and is expected to have a large turnout. After Thanksgiving on Nov. 30, Dr. Jim Wand, a hypnotist, will be presenting a lecture. Students are encour­aged to participate. 


As the Christmas season is quickly approaching so is the SAB Giving Tree. A list of 90 children's names from Madison Day Treatment Center is being sent to SAB. 
The names will be on orna­ments placed on Christmas trees in Haggar near the cash machine. Saint Mary's students buy and/or donate gifts to the children on the ornaments. 
More  information  will  be  
released in the near future.  
This  week's  movie  is  

"Pocahontas" and will be show­ing Friday and Sunday. Future movies include "A Walk in the Clouds", scheduled for March 29, "Little Women" on Feb. 9, and "Indian in the Cupboard" for Little Sibs Weekend. SAB is also planning a Christmas char­ity event beginning after Thanksgiving break. 
Special to The Observer 
George Craig Jr., Clark pro­fessor of biology at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame, has been awarded the Gold medal for 
Career Achievement by the Inter­national Society of Vector Ecology. 
The 700­member soci­

ety rep­Craig resents the intellectual component of vec­tor-borne disease control and prevention, says Craig. 
Craig is an internationally known medical entomologist with a primary interest in Aedes mosquitoes, a genus with more than 800 species that can carry yellow and dengue fever, encephalitis, and other diseases. 
A past president of the American Mosquito Control As­sociation, he is also a member of the National Academy of Sci­ences and a fellow of the Amer­ican Academy of Arts and Sci­ences, the American Associa­tion for the Advancement of Science and the Indiana Academy of Science. 
Craig currently is directing research investigating the dengue hemorrhagic fever epi­demic that began in Mexico in August and has been growing since. 
According to Craig, more than 2,500 cases are con­firmed, some spilling into the United States, first among trav­elers to Mexico and now among people living close to the Mexican border but with no re­cent travel to Mexico. 
Dengue hemorrhagic fever is a viral disease transmitted by mosquitoes. Particularly dan­gerous to young people, it can produce internal bleeding, coma, shock, and for 10-15 percent of its victims, death. 
Craig's research team in Mexico is collecting Aedes agypti mosquitoes, a known dengue virus carrier in North America, as well as Aedes al­bopictus, a species new to the Americas but known to carry the virus in Asia. 
He is concerned that albopic­tus mosquitoes, commonly called the Asian tiger mosquito, has started transmitting the disease in North America. 

5:02p.m. A Solin Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from the Sarin hall bike rack. 
SUN., NOV. 12 

12:42 a.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Juniper Rd. There were no Injuries reported. 
4:40 p.m. An off-campus student re­ported the theft of her bike from the De· Bartolo bike rack. 
10:23 p.m. A Morrissey Hall resident was transported to Saint Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports injury. 
• SECURITY BEAT FRI., NOV.10 
9:25 a.m. Security arrested a South Bend resident In the Hesburgh Library for trespassing. 
3:03p.m. A Farley Hall resident re­ported the theft of her bike from the Farley Hall bike rack. 
11 
:42 p.m. A Flenner Hall resident was transported by Securify to the University Health Center for treatment of a sports injury. 

11 
:54 p.m. Security apprehended a 


suspicious perscn by the South Dining Hall. He was identified and Issued a Ires· pass warning letter. 
SAT., NOV. 11 
12:30 a.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Juniper Rd. There were no Injuries reported. 
9:14a.m. Security responded to a hit and run accident on Douglas Rd. There were minor Injuries reported. 
2:40 p.m. A Carroll Halt resident re· ported the theft of his CD player from his vehicle while parked In the 06 parking lot. 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE 
FoR DELIVERY 


r ----------, r----------,
$5 DEAL I $4 DEAL
I I 1 I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5 Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 

I I I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price 
Now, That's a Deal!I Call /-6902 I Cal/1-6902 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 

-1 I -1I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95


I-----------I----------­
$10 DEAL I DOUBLE DEAL

I I I I 
I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas I You get 2 Large 14" 1 item and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 I Pizzas for Only $9 I I Call 1-6902 I I Cal/1-6902 I 
COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95 COUPON EXPIRES 12/16/95
.J


L L .J 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 14, 1995 
Because the overriding male since Vatican II." tive Officer Heather Durie. doctrine dominates the way This spirit of reform is evi­" said Annunciada Hall Execu­

RHA Debate 
"Whoever fills the shoes of wome'n think of themselves, denced by the increase of 
continued from page 1 
without lowering my standards as a human being and as a Christian." 
RHA Treasurer Cynthia Ex­conde stated, "I am extremely proud of the entire organiza­tion...I value the position I have served, but I do not value the hardships and frustrations we have experienced as a group or individually. My fellow execu­tive board members and I have been criticized, disrespected and misquoted by those who, by our understanding, were supposed to support us the most, the residence life staff." 
She continued, "Due to this experience, I have also realized that I can not trust nor ap­proach these same individuals with personal problems I may have as a student. I fear that my concerns will not be heard and examined objectively and confidentially." 
Students reacted after hear­ing these letters read. "It came as a shock, but I un­derstand their reasoning fully, 
the RHA executive board offi­cers has a tough job. And if the administration doesn't change its attitude toward stu­dents, nothing will improve," added Annunciada Hall Executive Officer Paulette Raczkowski. 
"Even when students suppos­edly have power, that power is continually questioned ," Raczkowski added. 
Hooper questions how stu­dents are expected to exercise their power. 
"The Sesquicentennial year was a motivational year and for that reason, the executive board members of RHA decid­ed to run on a platform 'Pioneering Change.' We ques­tion the manner in which we were expected to fulfill that promise," Hooper said. 
"I speak on behalf of BOG, SAB, SAC when I say that we have not encountered the same lack of professionalism or unresponsiveness to students wanting to pioneer change," said Saint Mary's Student Body President Sarah Sullivan. 

Wanted: Reporters, photograhers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
continued from page 1 
According to Drury, too often women religious who have po­sitions of power do not use them to further the cause of women within the church. Rather, they are too concerned with maintaining the status quo and their own position. But all Catholic women are bear some responsibility for the secondary role of women. 
"All of us who have been wit­ness to uninclusive language, irrelevant homilies and other instances of the patriarchy," Drury said. "That makes us collaborators. By taking part in the system, women are not only victims but perpetrators as well.'' 
O'Connor took a different tack in her half of the debate, arguing that the patriarchal church is primarily responsible for the oppression of women. Relating a story originally told by Elizabeth Cady Stanton, O'Connor argued that the basis for all oppression in society is religion. 
"Stanton was looking for the basis of power in society, what gave people the power to make rules," O'Connor said. "She found it was religion. As long as man can say he is doing something in God's name, how are we to break the chains?" 
The patriarchal view of the church has affected the way women view themselves are their role within the church. 
"Women are taught that they are good if they accept the dominating male view," O'Con­nor argued. "Their self image is warped, twisted by the patri­archy.'' 
It is here that a link is formed between the two arguments. 

many do not even realize they 
are being oppressed and mar­
ginalized. According to O'­
Connor, women are "brain­
washed," making it harder for 
them to realize when they are 
contributing to the oppression 
of others. · 
But Drury is quick to point out that they are not blaming women for their subordinate ,situation within the church. "Our intent is not to blame, but to raise consciousness," Drury said. "Women need to be 
active in the process of their 
own liberation." 

Whether or not women in the 
Catholic church have reason to 
be hopeful about the future was 
the next subject debated. This 
time, there was less agreement 
between the speakers. 

"In spite of the crippling for­
mat, the domination and exclu­
sivity of the church, the second­
class status of women and their 
complicity in this role, there is 
reason to hope," O'Connor said. 
"There is a spirit blowing 
through the ranks of the church women in visible positions within the church, such as lec­tors, eucharistic ministers and theologians. 
O'Connor cited examples from around the world of Catholics joining together to work for gender equality, from priests in Pittsburgh supporting the ordination of women to re­ligious in Ireland and England calling for a revision of the celibacy rules. 
However, Drury responded that these actions are a drop in the bucket. "It's been almost 30 years since the reforms of Vatican II," Drury said. "But today, we have a church that is moving more toward black and white in its policies. Rome is angry and uncompromising. There is a perception that the church is always right, will always be right and has already been right." 
Drury does not believe we are likely to see any fundamental changes with this papacy. "Tradition holds like a long, bit­ter winter," Drury said. 


• Free Buffet • Monday -Chicago Style Hotdogs TUesday -Work Sliders 
The Irish Play at The Works! 
(Mini Sryle Burgers) 

Wednesday-Friday­Entertainment Saturdays-Open Acoustic Mike :lO I !'\'. 1'\'ilcs Ave, Solith Benci (2 I D) 2:~2-44 I 4 

~~?Friday, November 17 (4:00pm) -Saturday, November 18 (6:00pm) 
~~?  40 WOMEN + 40 MEN FROM  
Alumni  Keenan  Sorin  
Breen-Phillips  Knott  Howard  
0MPUS tv11NISTRY  Grace  Pasquerilla West  Lyons  

A LIMITED NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE at the Campus Ministry Office, 103 Hesburgh Library. 
Questions? Call Fr. BobDowd, C.S.C. (1-7800/1-5056) 

Tuesday, November 14, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Bomb kills five Americans SMC fosters leadership 
By ADNAN MALIK ties. Some Muslim fundamen­Associated Press talists oppose the presence of 



through 'Think Tank' 
the U.S. military and other RIYADH Western forces in Saudi Arabia, 

By MAUREEN HURLEY Rosenbush, Director of Student A bomb ripped through a home to Islam's holiest shrines. 
Saint Mary's News Ediwr Activities.
building filled with American While open opposition to the The Think Tank was the first 
and Saudi military personnel ruling al-Saud family is not per­
This Saturday, while most project funded by the FIPSE 
on Monday, tearing off the mitted, some underground 
individuals were suffering from grant. Through brainstorming 
facade and engulfing the groups have threatened to withdrawal symptoms from and small group discussion,
wreckage in flames. Six people strike against the deeply con­Notre Dame Football, faculty faculty members and student were killed, including five servative Saudi leadership and and student development offi­development officials had theAmericans. the Western forces. 
cials from Saint Mary's gath­opportunity to "think of our in­At least 60 people were The U.S. Embassy ered to discuss their roles on dividual roles in working towounded, including more than spokesman, Jeff Thomas, said campus, and brainstorm ideas guide and improve Saint30 Americans. It was not clear late Monday the death toll to foster leadership opportuni­Mary's, and foster leadershipwhether the attack was aimed among Americans had risen to 
ties on campus at the first in students," according to 
at the Saudis, the Americans, five after one of the critically Leadership Think Tank. White. 
or both. injured victims died in the The Center for Academic In­"People had a lot of things to Two groups claimed respon­hospital. He said a number of cers in the U.S. Army. 
novation acquired a $214,000 say, and a lot of ideas regard­sibility for the attack, but nei­Americans were listed in criti­King Fahd convened his grant earlier this year from the ing issues and concerns on ther could be verified, said cal condition, but gave no spe­Cabinet, which "expressed its Fund for the Improvement of campus, as well as thinking of Haymond Mabus, U.S. ambas­cific figures. condemnation of this criminal 
Postsecondary Education our connections to one an­
sador to Saudi Arabia. Earlier. a Pentagon official in act, which is foreign to our so­
(FIPSE). other," White said. 
One group was the little­Washington, speaking on con­ciety, beliefs and religion," the The grant, entitled "The The Think Tank provided a 
known Islamic Change Move­dition of anonymity, said 34 Saudi Press Agency reported. 
Collaborative Challenge: sounding board for issues and 
ment, which demanded last Americans were injured and President Clinton pledged to Forging a Community Com­ideas regarding leadership
spring that Western forces some were taken to hospitals. "devote an enormous effort" to mitment to Leadership Devel­roles. 
leave Saudi Arabia or it would The Pentagon identified one bring those responsible to jus­opment," is targeted towards "The entire FIPSE grant cen­
"exert all available means to of the dead Americans as tice, calling it "a hideous act" "establishing interaction be­ters around all three sections­eviet these forces." The second Wayne Wiley, 55, a retired U.S. of terrorism. A dozen FBI tween faculty, administrators faculty, student development group was the previously un­Army major who was now a agents and evidence specialists and students that will foster officers and students-work­
known Tigers of the Gulf. Department of the Army civil­were being sent to Saudi 
leadership throughout the ing together," said Deborah Saudi Arabia, the world's ian employee. No hometown Arabia to help with the investi­campus," according to the McCarthy, Assistant Professor 
biggest oil exporter, has been a was given for him. gation. 
grant proposal. written by of Chemistry and Physics. 
close ally of the United States Another Pentagon official Mabus said the blast was Project Directors Patrick 
for decades and the two coun­said two of the dead Americans caused by "an explosive de­White, Associate Dean of "We hope in the long run, we 
tries have extensive military were non-commissioned offi-vice." 
Faculty and Georgeanna can all work in new ways for the same goal-to give stu­dents the best possible educa­tion at Saint Mary's." 
The next stage of the FIPSE grant brings faculty, students and staff together at the Play of the Mind Conference, to take place Jan. 26-28. 
This year, the conference strays from the norm, as it closes it off to other campuses and focuses on "The Quality of Life at Saint Mary's College: Encompassing Leadership." 
"In the context of the FIPSE



Because today is 
grant, we're taking time this year to focus on Saint Mary's, and talk about issues pertinent here," said student planner and participant Teresa Rados­tits.

mystery meat day. 
According to Radostits, the issue is explored through role­playing, skits, discussions, and panels. "It's not like your traditional conference," she said. 
Any students interested in participating in the Play of the Mind Conference should con­tact the Center for Academic Innovation. according to White. 




BREAK 


It's everywhere 
I tJ j'lltiliiI

you want·to be: 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEl( HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
• PER P£RSON ~PENDING ON ~STINAllON IBRIM DAllS llENGllt Of 1111(1. 
t~SC:lc:l~SIINCII.•S'E 
TOLL f1lfti IN~f'ci~WATIOIII & .,Stdi\'.TIOIIIS Ill-0¥111 Tl M-1111 At. 


C Vlaa U.S.A.. Inc. 199S 




page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 14, 1995 


Clinton wages budget Nigerian crash leaves 77 dead 
war with Congress 
By ALAN FRAM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

With the clock ticking toward a midnight shutdown, President Clinton vetoed a temporary borrowing bill today, pledged to veto a second and prepared to close most government operations in a jolting political fight with Congress. 
Lawmakers passed a stopgap spending measure in late after­noon that would avert a shut­down. But it also provides for a rise in Medicare premiums, and thus seemed certain to draw Clinton's second veto of the day. 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole said the House and Senate would remain in session until midnight, in case a last-gasp compromise could be reached to keep the government run­ning smoothly on Tuesday. "There still might be time" to avert a shutdown, he said. 
That seemed unlikely, though, barring a last-minute concession by either the White House or the Republican con­gressional majorities in their test of wills. 
House Speaker Newt Gin­grich, meantime, called once more for Clinton to sit down with Republican congressional leaders to find an agreement. 
"We hope at some point the president will decide to talk with us and have a discussion about how to get this solved," Gingrich told reporters. "I think it's very unfortunate that he is hiding and refusing to dis-
HEAR ABOUT AN EXCITING CAREER IN COMMERCIAL BANKING. 

Learn about FIRST OAK BROOK BANCSHARES, INC., headquartered in Oak Brook, IL and it's Management Trainee Program on Wednesday, November 15 from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center. 



Wednesday, November 15 Thursday, November 16 Friday, November 17 Saturday, November 18 Sunday, November 19 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $8 
Student and senior citizen discounts are available for all perfonnances. Tickets are available at the door or in advance at the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa Orders call631-8128 
8p.m. 8p.m. 8p.m. 8p.m. 2:30p.m. 
cuss with us what would keep the government open." 
Speaking from his Oval Office desk, Clinton accused Republi­cans of engineering a budget crisis to further their spending priorities. "This is not the time or the place for them to back­door their budget proposals," he said. 
The bill Clinton vetoed would have extended the governmen­t's ability to borrow money be­yond the current debt limit, which will be reached some­time this week. 
Clinton noted Republican amendments would strip the Treasury Department of its ability to dip into federal trust funds to avoid a borrowing cri­sis. 
"They've voted to put the United States on the path to default," Clinton said. Republi­can amendments also would limit appeals by death row in­mates, make it harder to issue health. safety and environmen­tal regulations and commit the president to a seven-year bal­anced budget. 
He also reiterated his pledge to veto a second bill, which would allow the government to keep operating beyond mid­night, when most spending au­thority expires. A GOP amend­ment opposed by Clinton would increase Medicare Part B pre­miums, canceling a scheduled reduction. 
In the rare early-morning veto ceremony, Clinton offered his own bills to extend spend­ing and borrowing authority ­but without the GOP amend­ments. 
Associated Press 
LAGOS, Nigeria 
A Nigeria Airways plane car­rying at least 129 people crashed upon landing Monday in northern Nigeria, and news reports said 77 people were feared dead. 
It was one of the worst airline crashes in the history of the West African nation, which al­ready has a poor aviation record. 
Tina Abia, a spokeswoman for Nigeria Airways, confirmed the Boeing 737 crashed at Kaduna airport about 7 a.m.. but refused to give further de­tails. 
The plane was flying from the central Nigerian city of Jos to Kaduna, 400 miles northeast of Lagos. 
Reporters in Kaduna said au­thorities told them the jet skid­ded onto the runway and then tried to make a sharp right onto the taxiway. But the turn was 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic 

For a personal visit or more detailed information, caU a Northwestern
2501 West 84th Street 

Admissions counselor at 1-800-888-4777. You'll discover the exceptional
Bloomington, MN 55431 

difference an education at Northwestern can make in your life. 
1-800-888-4777 

Co-sponsored by the student governments ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's. For more infonnation, call 284-5373 
too sudden and the plane's right wing hit the ground and burst into flames. 
At least 52 survivors jumped out before the plane exploded, including the pilot and co-pilot. It was not known exactly how many people were on the plane. 
Air traffic controllers told re­porters no distress call had been received prior to the crash. They said dusty winds that blow south from North Africa to the Atlantic may have caused poor visibility. 
The plane was the fourth Nigerian airliner to crash since June, a record that has re­newed concerns about the con­dition of Nigeria's aging air­craft. Many of the country's air­port facilities and runways do not meet international safety standards. 
Nigeria Airways pilots went on strike in 1993, saying the planes weren't serviced regu­larly and were not safe to fly. 
In August, the government 


Northwestern College of Chiropractic 
Professional Success Through Clinical Excellence 
For 53 years, Northwestern College of Chiropractic has been preparing doctors of chiropractic. We have more than 3,000 graduates across the globe who are successful, productive clinical practitioners. 
Northwestern College of Chiropractic will provide you: 
• 
A well-rounded, rigorous education integrating the basic and clinical sciences, diagnosis, X-ray, chiropractic therapeutics and practice management 

• 
Clinical education through every step of the curriculum, beginning with hands-on chiropractic technique classes in the first trimester 

• 
Limited enrollment, small classes (11 :1 student to faculty ratio), individual attention from faculty, and easy access to educational resources 

• 
Clinical internships within 35 Minnesota community clinics and five College public clinics 

• 
A research center known internationally as a leader in clinically-controlled research trials, which is dedicated to advancing the knowledge of chiropractic 

• 
Extensive financial aid resources 

• 
Final term, full-time private practice internships in clinics around the world 


ordered a major reorganization of the national airline, firing its entire management. Directors of airport and civil aviation au­thorities were also sacked. 
A month later, more than 600 airport employees were fired for disciplinary problems or be­cause they were deemed too old to work. 


Tuesday, November 14, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Powell wary of endorsement Republicans press 
By MICHAEL GRACZYK clear last Wednesday," Powell than 800 people attending the Associated Press said following his first public conference on foreign policy 

Clinton to cancel trip
appearance since announcing challenges at the end of the 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The White House is rejecting a Republican call for President Clinton to cancel his trip to an Asian eco­nomic sum­mit in Japan this week if the fiscal standoff with Congress has not been resolved. 
But the trip, which had been scheduled for six days, has been winnowed to just one weekend. Spokesman Mike Mc­Curry said today Clinton will leave late Friday night and re­turn early Tuesday morning, after meeting with leaders of Asian Pacific countries and participating in a state visit. 
White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta said that Clinton's foreign policy would not be "held hostage" to Republican intransigence on budget mat­ters. but that the trip schedule might have to be adjusted in light of a domestic crisis. 
The government will be par­tially shut down beginning Tuesday if there is no agree­ment between the White House and congressional Republicans on a temporary spending mea­sure. The Treasury also faces default on interest payments if the president rejects. as ex­pected, a Republican plan for extending the debt ceiling. 
The responsibility for closing the government if no com-promise is reached will be on Clinton's shoulders, House Speaker Newt Gingrich said Sunday on NBC's "Meet the Press." "I don't see how he can go to Japan because frankly the government will be closed." 

Gingrich's words were echoed by Senate Majority Leader Hob Dole, who appeared on ABC's "This Week With David Brinkley." Dole said it was an important trip and "I don't want the president to cancel it, but I don't think he has any choice if we haven't come to some agreement." 
Panetta, appearing on CBS' "Face the Nation" said Gin­grich's comments were "unfor­tunate," adding, "The presi­dent ought not to be held hostage with his foreign pol­icy." 
He said it was the current plan to proceed to the trip to Osaka, where the leaders of Asian and Pacific countries are meeting to discuss ways to lib­eralize trade in the region. 
But he suggested that the schedule might have be short­ened or otherwise changed be­cause of budget problems at home. "If we are in the middle of a crisis here in this country, then obviously we would have to adjust," he said. 
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin also stressed on ABC the importance of Clinton going to Japan because of the great:"eco­nomic significance of the re­gion, but agreed there would have to be a "balance" be­tween the desirability of at­tending and the need to solve the budl!:et issues. 
HOUSTON 

Hetired Gen. Colin Powell said Monday he's going to "watch the political landscape unfold," before making any 
presidential endorse­ments. 
"I'm just going to stay in private life," Powell told reporters after accept­


ing an award Powell for public service at a Rice University for­eign policy conference. 
"I think I made my position he would not seek the Republi­can nomination for president. ''I'm not starting any new cam­paign." 
Powell rejected any talk about a vice presidential nod and also refused to speculate on whom he might endorse for president, saying it was far too early in the campaign. 
"I think it's premature to talk about endorsements," he said. ''I'm going to watch the politi­cal landscape unfold in the months ahead." 
The former Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman received a standing ovation from more 20th century. 
The two-day conference was sponsored by the James Baker Ill Institute of Public Policy at Rice University, named for the former secretary of state. 
After receiving the award, Powell referred to his an­nouncement last week as one of the most difficult decisions of his life. 
"I also said at that time I wanted to continue to speak out on the issues of the day. I want­ed to be part of the public debate," he said. 
"This is a good place to start." 

Univcr!ilty of 
Notre Dame 
lntcrnutlnnol 
Study l'ru~.:ram 
In 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
"Why Study in Dublin for a Year or a Semester" 
With Professor Jim Smyth Department of Hi~tory 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 15, 1995 4:30P.M. 119 DEBARTOLO 
Application Deadline December 1, 1995 


==-=-:-=® 


Get the Right Start 
Call 
4J00-4 IBM LOAN 
(I.800-442-656;!) 
For Special. 
IBM PCs Offer the Perfert Cmnhinatinn F' ~·"l~""'"*' of Prire, Convenience and Performanet• 
VIEWPOINT 

page 8 Tuesday, November 14, 1995 


Dear Editor: 
I am writing in response to the article in the Nov. 9 issue of the Observer titled "Men denied chance at stadium." In that article Todd Fitzpatrick inter­viewed members on the Fisher and Flanner interhall football teams, who expressed disap­onship game in the stadium, I find one senior's opinion com­pletely sexist and offensive. Mark Troske made the follow­ing comment about the champi­onship locations: "It seems ridiculous that the last game in the 'House that Rockne built' is 
P.E. versus Lyons. We usually 
the University for not making their schedules fit his life. 
I am sure that other men on the championship teams agree with Mark, but I am also sure that there are at least a few good guys who recognize this unfortunate situation as a scheduling mishap, and that is 


in the black community 

mentality' [and] replaces it with the is first and foremost a man of fact." similarly tried to sbield·'birnself from 
· · · statements.~:!~ portraying them a prophet of God. >t· 
"""''"'H·,""" Farrakhan has characterized as " are his false and offensive claims that uu•"•""'"'u the slave trade and that Jewish bankers uua.w..;t:u Hitler during the Holocaust. Farrakhan has sup­charge that Jewish doctors deliberately infect with the AIDS virus, and insists that various go·vet'l'llllltillt agencies are in a conspiracy to oppress the colmnturtity. In light 'of Farrakhan's record. Lane's readers to "find a lack of truth in any of the [Farrakhan's] speech.'' is laughable. Lane 
se.E!Il\Stll1GaJ)at:lle·Of distinguishing fact from fiction. . betray a fright(:UlinginsensitiVity to the ~cu.utll~u<~~Ult.~;~.. He writes: "Other than the claim are 'bloodsuckers' of the black com­
11-14 

~~----~~~~~--~--~~--------·~--------~--~------------~--------------------~-~~-~-­
VIEWPOINT

Tuesday, November 14, 1995 
• AND IN THIS CORNER••• 
Once more into the breach, dear friends ... 
I should never respond to particular columns or letters in the Observer-but this wnek, I'll make an exception. Of course, it may be libelous to mention the names of the writers in question, so I'll just say that their initials are Charles Hiee and Fred Kelly. 
I am not affiliated (yet) with the Native American Student Association of Notre Dame, or with any other Native American rights activist group. Still, I lind myself agreeing with, if not outright approving of. their recent actions regarding the Columbus murals inside the Main Building. Apparently, my Catholic upbring-
What we have here is a clear example of two individuals who desperately need the benefits of multiculturalism. Mr. Kelly shows an impressive knowledge of some practices of various Native American tribes, selectively detailing the more vicious aspects, of course, and never really explaining the reasons for these practices. 
Just as it is improper to refer to Europeans or Asians collectively, it is narrow-minde,d to refer to Native Americans as if the hundreds of tribes had the same exact culture. And just as it is improper to label Australian aborig­ines "savages," it is pure Western arro­gance to claim Native Americans were 
"uncivilized." This is 

ing didn't properly a display of a lack of train me to follow cultural awareness my innate natural and sensitivity on the law. part of the suppos­
Matthew

This is what the edly compassionate eoncept of "natur­"Christian" author. al law" appears to Since I am from
Applebe: you always New York State, know what good which requires high and evil are, even schools to teach 
if you think there is no such thing, because the Catholic Church, which is Truth embodied, will tell you what is right and wrong. At least. this appears to be what Professor Hiee says about natural law, basing his absolute moral dictum upon the teach­ings of a monk who's been dead for almost 600 years. 
(Philosophically speaking, Thomas Aquinas' teachings, particularly the spectacularly pathetic "argument from design," were subsumed by Immanuel Kant's Critique of Judgement. Then again, I don't suppose the Catholic Church could possibly read the works of a Protestant.) 
Or as the allegedly infallible pope says, "The Catholic Church is, by the will of Christ, the teacher of Truth." A rather expedient system of ethics, wouldn't you say? Of course, it makes utter sense that you have to be Catholic to understand what good and evil are. Or at the very least be from a Western culture. 
Next, we find Mr. Kelly referring to this definition of Truth to support his demotion of Native Americans to the status of sBcond-class citizens. According to the moral law of Aquinas, hB says, Native Americans should have rmtlized that torturing people and forc­ing them to eat their own flesh was immoral. Therefore they were "sav­ages," and it was a good thing for Columbus to have "saved their mortal souls" by introdueing Christianity to the Americas. After all, he was only doing the Work of God, and who can argue with God? 

junior high students the history of the Iroquois and Algonkian, most of my knowledge of Native American culture is of those two groups of tribes. Although I by no means claim expertise of Huron culture, I can say with certainty that the Seneca tribe, one of the five Iroquois nations, did not "exterminate" their relatives the Huron. Disbelievers can ask the descendants of the Huron who li~e in small pockets in Quebec City, the area surrounding Detroit, and on the Wyandotte Reservation in Oklahoma if their ances­tors were utterly annihilated. 
To understand the significance of the sensationally quoted torturing incident of the Jesuit by an Iroquois tribe, one must first understand the Iroquois cul­ture. Since .both previously mentioned writers took the liberty to quote at length from various sources, I choose to quote from a slim anthropological vol­ume entitled The Huron, by Bruce Trigger of McGill University: 
"Three principles motivated tradition­al warfare among all the Iroquoian­speaking peoples ... First, it was the prin­cipal means by which young men acquired personal prestige and won a respected place for themselves as adult members of society. 
"Second, warfare was the way in which injuries inflicted by members of one people or confederacy upon mem­bers of another were avenged. 
"Third, Iroquoian warfare was inspired by religious ideals. It was the means by which prisoners were obtained who were sacrificed by ritually torturing them to death. Among the Huron the spirit in whose honor this rit­ual was performed was Iouskeha, who also made the crops to grow and fish and game to thrive... 
"The method of sacrifice, in turn, pro­vided the Huron with an opportunity to vent their hatred of the enemy on a particular victim, and gave the victim, as warrior, a final, spectacular op­portunity to display his courage." 
Trigger then describes the method of torture and eventual death, a ritual very similar to the one this Jesuit supposedly underwent. This torture was not specifi­cally designed for the priest, and was definitely not meant to be a "parody" of any Christian ritual. The Jesuit, who undoubtedly lived with his intended con­verts, would have been considered a member of the enemy's tribe by the raiding Iroquois and subsequently treat­ed as such. The Jesuit should have real­ized the personal risk involved the moment he set foot within the Huron vil­lage. 
Since all lroquoian tribal societies were based upon the same societal structure and language, it is safe to assume that these tribes had no vested interest in totally eradicating each other. As Trigger points out, before the arrival of the French, indications are that the warfar~ between the various tribes was equal. Only after the Iroquois Five Nations obtained guns from the Dutch settlers did the tribal warfare begin to become one-sided, as the Dutch pushed the Iroquois into western New York and the Iroquois pushed the Huron further North and Southwest. 
In addition to aspects of Iroquois war­fare, Trigger details the intricate soci­etal makeup of the Huron, which may be compared in part to that of most Northeastern Native American tribes. For example: 
• 
the chieftains were chosen by elder women of each tribal clan, and the chieftain's reputation as a leader was determined by how many gifts he gave to those families in his village. 

• 
unmarried young men and women were not required by religious law to be chaste, as the Huron considered pre­marital relations to be healthy, yet if an unmarried woman became pregnant, it was customary for all the unmarried men to claim the child as his own, and the woman would select one to be her husband. 

• 
no one in Iroquoian society was allowed to coerce another into doing things opposite to his or her expressed wishes. 

• 
no family was allowed to have sub­stantially more material possessions than another. 


Seems to me Western "civilized" soci­ety could learn a few things from these "savages." 
If any Native American tribes were completely eradicated, it was the numerous tribes who once occupied what is now Long Island and Connecticut. The plight of the Mohegan is vaguely familiar to anyone who read James Fenimore Cooper or watched the movie Deerslayer (not counting the recent farce of a movie, which was only a vehicle for Daniel "Look At My Chest Hair" Day-Lewis). In these instances, it was the white settlers who literally wiped out the local tribes, despite over­tures of peace from the Native Americans. Through America's history, 
' the Native Americans have only wanted to live in harmony with the white man, while the white man sought any excuse possible to antagonize and slaughter the Native Americans. Despite the stories of gruesome war­fare, it is a misapprehension to call pre­Columbian Native Americans "savages." Any half-decent historian will tell you that every culture in every corner of the globe throughout the history of mankind has been obsessed with killing each other. Medieval histo­rians in particular should be able to recite an appalling compilation of the rape, the pillaging, the attempted cultural genocides, and the cannibalism perpetu­ated by Crusading Christians upon Muslims and Christians alike. Closer to our time, one has only to glance across the fields of rape and genocide in Bosnia-Herzogovina for an example of "modern civilization." And the Bosnian­Serbs aren't pagan, they're Christian. As Thomas Hobbes put it, life is "nasty, brutish, and short." He wasn't referring to Native Americans. 
And I hope I don't have to mention the numerous atrocities and betrayals com­mitted by Uncle Sam against Native Americans during the late 1800s. The 
U.S. government looks for a battle­ground every twenty years or so to keep their brainless, hormonally rabid youths occupied. Count the number of years between the end of the Civil War and the "Indian Wars." Dee Brown's book Bury My Heart At Wounded Knee should pro­vide enlightenment to all the General Custer admirers out there. 
To wrap up, it is the differences between the religions of Native American tribes and Christianity which are responsible for the refusal of the white man to accept a different culture's right to exist. Whereas Native 

-~---~-··--------~-, 
page 9 
\. 

\ 
I 


Americans always sought to live in har­mony with nature, to maintain the bal­ance of power between man and woman, tribe and tribe, white man has always sought "progress," which he sometimes calls "civilization," to prove himself master of all he sees by en­slaving it to his desire. Christianity has always sought to prove the superiority of one system of morality and one man's opinion; white man has always used his beliefs to justify the conquering of tech­nologically weaker cultures and the rap­ing of their lands. 
For Native Americans, as for nearly all indigenous peoples, the opposite is true: they believe that the land does not belong to them, they belong to the land. Native Americans do not set themselves above animals in some sort of perverted patriarchal hierarchy; they recognize 
that humans are mere­ly another form of ani­mal, which, like all other animals, is depende·nt upon the cycles of nature for sur­vival as a race. I cannot speak for NASA-NO, but I doubt that they desire a radical change in the (hopefully) com­passionate religious nature of Notre Dame. What they seek is cul­tural awareness and respect, like any other culture or historically disenfranchised people, a sentiment that any­one familiar with the history of the Emerald Isle should share. 

Hudyard Kipling would probably agree with the statement that Columbus ought to be praised for "bringing the Indians back to the natural law." I have to won­der if Notre Dame, as an institution, is proud to shoulder the white man's bur­den. The murals in the Main Building puzzle me. Why anyone should consider them works of art. and why in the world they are in northern Indiana, which last I knew was at least two thousand miles from the Caribbean, remains a mystery to me. 
Still, I suppose it must be true that God blesses Columbus; after all, God helps those who help themselves, and, thanks to Columbus, the Europeans helped themselves to whatever they could get. 
Matthew Apple is a Creative Writing graduate student at Notre Dame. Additional excerpts from Native American lore and culture are available at matthew.t.apple.l@nd.edu. 
'Whereas Native 
Americans always sought to live in harmony with nature, to maintain the balance of power between man and woman, tribe and tribe, white man has always sought "progress," which he sometimes calls "civi­lization."' 
;ACCENT

page 10 Tuesday, November 14, 1995 

Since we at Accent are always sharing how we feel about particular issues, now you finally have your chance. PLEASE send these back before Thanksgiving Break, and we'll publish the results. So fill it out, send it in and voice your opinions through your friends at The Observer. (Maybe you'll even get a free gift!) 
(U:lrcle one) 
Mex: MALE FEMALE 
Year: FRESHMAN SOPHOMORE jUNIOR SENIOR 

R & 8  COUNTRY  ROCK  TOP 40  ALTERNATIVE  
CLASSICAL  LATIN  RAP  jAZZ  INDIE  
Fa-vorite lWe"ft'"M A.nehora  BROKAW  jENNINGS  RATHER  

("W"rite In) 
DeMt lWe"W'"Mpaper (HeMideM The ObMer-ver)a Fa-vorite Uartoon l:rom you:r Uhildhood: Fa-vorite Uar"toon no"ft'": DeM"t A..lbll.Ill of the Year: "W"orM"t A..lbll.Ill of "the Year: DeMt Uoneert Tou:r ol the paMt year: 
DeMt Ne"ft'" Hand: "W"orM"t Ne"ft'" Handa DeMt Female .&:r"tiM"t: "W"orst; Female .&:r"tist: Best; Male .&:r"tist: 

Best; "Video: Fa-vorite TT sho"ft'": Fa-vorite Mo-vie this Yeara Fa-vori-te Food Deli-very: Fa-vorite OH•Uampus Restaurant: Fa-vorite Uampus Hand: 

Please return surveys to the Observer office on the third floor of Lafortune or return through campus mail at :Accent Entertainment Poll do The Observer 314 LaFortune--Campus Mail 




---------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
You're tired of reading. Your brain cannot handle any more informa­tion as you restlessly count down the days until Thanksgiving Break. We at Accent understand your frustration and invite you to release some excess anxiety. Play with your friends, play by yourself, but at least have fun. You can thank us later. 
. 
11 .. . I\ ,,, •z.s-1b -. 
l1'
'" 
..
.,, 0 1.• • ,, • lJ• ()
~"' •
z:1 
.,~ '1 "· 
;14 ·1i 
{I.
• • •.ot1 Z1
•'' ~' • 
-
I" H• .~· .... b •Jo ''\'. 
~~··1'' 

• J
•,. ~\ 4\ 
'\\•• HI
•~· 
'A-4­
.,. 
~~ ~~~:G -'\1. Jll
,, 
• b\ ""' .')'\
\,'I. 
l.·~' •n 
.' • 
--·-----3e 
•\1 
}" p
.... 
• ~ ~ 
~ S-t
7= ~ 
>I • 3.. 
~1 


ll.ll.S.II. 
r ·-·-·-, 
I I I I 
L ·-·-·_J 
page 11 
MEDICAL MINUTE 

Sweet Dreams 
By JOHN GALVIN Accent Medical Correspondent 

S
leep is a precious commodity at college, and is invariably in short supply. With too many activities and too few hours, sleep usually comes out on the short end of stu· dents' time allotments. Sleep is both necessary and flexible (which tempts us to abuse it}. While our bodies remain immo­bile, nearly every organ and system is undergoing measurable changes, some of them drastic, during sleep. And while the brain seems nonreactive to outside stimuli, it is still processing and filtering sensory information from the outside and is as active (albeit in different ways) as the awake brain. 
Why do some people need to sleep longer than others'? Perhaps for the same reason that some people are taller than other.s. or run faster: a mixture of genetic and lifestyle factors. Some studies have shown that short sleepers tend to be charac· terized as action-oriented on personality tests. while long sleepers tend to appear more introspective. In any case, you need to use your own body, not someone else's behavior, as a guide for your sleep needs. What you need for sleep may vary greatly from your friends and roommates. 
Insomnia is one of thA emotional and behavioral responses to · stress. Stress is the sum of your reactions to any stimulus that tends to disturb your natural balance. I can give you some quick tips for how to fall asleep, but in the long run, you might also wt~,pt to look for outlets to the stress and tension that build up during the day. 1 
Ti!i For those All·Nighter Addicts, here are a few thihgs you can do to help use your time more effectively: 
·.~iw~!~~~t=·· 

1. 
Reduce caffeine and sugar intake at night. Both act as stimulants, and the sugar can also make it difficult to get up in the morning. 

2. 
Ustento classical music. 



:~,·~f.\·(:·.:· ·. . procrastination. Whatever you want to do onwrrow. try to doit today: whatever you want to do to(iay. do it now. · 
4. 
Procrastinate. Skip all of your classes. play Sega, watch TV and go out every night. 

5. 
Allow extra time for everything you have to do. If you think an assignment will take one hour, make sure you leave 


1.5 to 2 hours to complete it. That way, you'll have extra time instead of being time-pressured. 
ayNO! to extra projects. If you don't volunteer, someone · se will! 
Make friends.with non-stressed people. Nothing can promote anxiety faster than associating with other anal people . 
8. 
Do homework in bed. 

9. 
Do anything in bed. 


10. 
Check your breathing. Deep breathing helps to relax your entire body and reduce muscle tension. 


11.Become more flexible. Some things are worth NOT doing perfectly and some issues are well to compromise upon. whereas others are clearly priorities . 
12. 
A couple beers. 

13. 
Count sheep. 


14. 
If an especially "unpleasant" task faces you, get it over with early in the day. The rest of your day can then be less anxious. Do your most laborious homework assignment PIRST. 

15. 
Take a warm bath. 


16. 
Try using an alarm clock to remind you to GO to sleep. It is very important that you get enough sleep at night to get you through the next day. 

17. 
Watch TV. 


18. 
Progressive relaxation of each part of your body: Start with your toes, and inch by inch, consciously relax each body part up to your head. 


19, A chicken and pickle sandwich on stonewheat crackers. 
20. Read this article again. 

In the long run, try integrating more exereise into your life. It's a great, healthy way to release built-up tension. Try to eat a nutritious, sensible diet. reducing caffeine, chocolate and sugar intake. Start taking stress-relieving vitamin B. And most importantly, calm down and relax!! Get a good laugh in, detach yourself a bit, and don't be a slave to life's dramas. 
If these techniques don't work and your sleeping problems persl$L~, take a nap. 
John Galvin's "Medical Minute" is a Pulitzer Prize-winning, nationally syndicated weekly article.· Questions and compli· ments can be sent to: John.P.Galvin.3@nd.edu 
l I I 
I I 
page :2 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 14, 1995 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL •NBA 


r-­
1 
I 
I 
I NU's dream season Little Jazz man almost complete Stockton pours 
By MIKE NADEL the nation, can go to the Rose Associated Press Bowl only if they beat Purdue 
in 29 for Utah 
and if No. 2 Ohio State loses 
Associated Press 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
either to Indiana this SaturdayEven back in August, the or to Michigan the following TOHONTO coaches and players knew this week. Ohio State is heavy
a John Stockton gave the Toronto Raptors a Jes­
week would be one of the 
home favorite to beat weak In­son in more than just basketball Monday night. 
biggest in Northwestern foot­
diana, but winning at Michigan While a Jack of composure cost the Raptorsball history. is never easy. three technical fouls in the last two minutes,
"We felt it might decide our ''I'm going to become a Stockton was a study in skill and steadiness in sixth win in a season where we 
Michigan fan for the first and leading the Utah Jazz to a 103-100 victory. 
were trying to get over the 
last time in my life," defensive "The guy who killed us was John Stockton,"
hump," coach Gary Barnett tackle Matt Rice said. 
Raptors coach Brendan Malone said. "He took us 
said Monday as the Wildcats If the teams finished with to school tonight. began preparing for the final identical conference
8-0 "But I'm tired of having technical fouls at the week of their dream season. records, Ohio State would go to end of the game. It's a Jack of discipline." 
"But it's become more signifi­
the Rose Bowl because of its Stockton, who had 29 points and 12 assists,
cant than that. I don't think any overall unbeaten mark. 
including a key feed to Adam Keefe wth five sec­
of us would have guessed that "Somebody asked me, 'Are onds remaining, said he'll take the win any way 
we would be in this situation." you guys mad you don't play he can get it. A victory Saturday at Purdue 
OSU?' And I said, 'No, because "This was an important win on the road,"would give Northwestern its they are awesome.' " Johnson Stockton said. first 10-win season and its first 
said, laughing. "It's one of ''But it was a dogfight out there. (The Raptors) 

AP file photo 
unbeaten Big Ten campaign those things you can't control. showed me a lot," he said. "We had a big third Utah guard John Stockton demonstrated composure 
since 1936. The Wildcats also They're not on our schedule." 

quarter, but they never gave up and brought down the stretch, leading the Jazz to their first road
would stay in the running for Said Rice: "Seeing as how we themselves right back into the game." victory of the season in Toronto. 

their first Rose Bowl appear­

don't play them, I'm going to The Jazz, who outscored Toronto 37-22 in the they're expansion in name only. A lot of their ance in five decades. say, 'Yeah, we'd beat them.' third quarter, barelyescaped in the final period. guys have played in this league for a while and "I knew we were going to Quote me on that. What are Despite outscoring the Jazz 29-22 in the final they showed it." 
have a turnaround season, a 

they going to do? Get mad at quarter, the Rap tors again had trouble down the Malone fouled Alvin Robertson, who had 22 breakthrough year for this pro­
me?" stretch. points for the Raptors, with 45 seconds left, but 
gram," said center Rob 

The Wildcats actually would "The second half was a trench war and we with a chance to tie, the Toronto guard hit onlyJohnson, a fifth-year senior. 
have a better shot at the lost," Malone said. " one free throw to cut the Jazz lead to 101-100. "But I'm not going to kid you national title if Ohio State goes Karl Malone had 22 points and 11 rebounds for After the Jazz drove down court and Malone 
and say I thought we were go­to the Rose Bowl. Northwestern the Jazz, winners for the first time on the road missed from short range, Chris Morris pulled

ing to be 9-1 and challenging 

would get to play in a different this season. down an offensive rebound before Stockton fed for the Big Ten title." bowl against a higher-ranked "These guys are an expansion team, if that's to Keefe for a basket as time was running out on 
The Wildcats, ranked fifth in 

opponent. what you want to call it," Malone said. "But the 24-second shot clock. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Lost-Unique 1967 HS Class Ring I need a ride to D.C. or Philly for READY NOW FOR SPRING 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 Potter, All Gold-No stones-Julie-4-2706 Thanksgiving. Will help pay gas & SEMESTER QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! DROP IT! 
NOTICES 

drive. x4931 3-4 Bedroom 2 blks from campus THE COPY SHOP Found: Gold bracelet with one Newly remodeled with W/D DW LaFortune Student Center cora and ash-sorry about the !@#@%$$"%&"\&(&"$%@ bent/broken link on path near North TUTOR FOR HIGH SCHOOL Fridge Stove Huge Yard Phone 631-COPY wake up call. and i'll stop with the AAA Meeting Dining Hall SPANISH. CALL HANHPHAM 277-Full Basement and Monitored 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 cereal. I'll be a better roommate. ThisWEDNESDAY 11/15 AND 5474. ALSO, TUTOR FOR Security Sys Included and you can get whatever you 
...... ,.. .................. . 
9:30pm 2 rings on counter by sinks in 1st SCHEME COMPUTER PROGRAM $240/person or $900/mo ---------------------want at Macri's-legally this time . Library Auditorium floor women's bathroom in O'Shag. (MAC). Will help individuals needing a ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE Kalby and peanut butter ... always. AGENDA: Yours? Call Nicki X4803 room. This Week: 1 Time Cash Offer Call Mike @ 233-9609 for details TANGO/ADV.HUSTLE d o you realize what would have 
1. 
MAASU -this Weekend!! FOUND: port. CD player Transfer computer files from Mac to •6:30 tonight @ 301 Rockne happened if i had hit the bullseye? 

2. 
AAA House Party Call Peter @ 4-3671 IBM. Set up PageMaker 5.0 in IBM. ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE •only $3/ lesson or $25/ sem. That guy would have nailed me. 

3. 
Asian Studies Courses Please Describe Great pay. 273-1952 HOME FOR Come on outl You won't want to Did you see how hard he hit the 

4. 
GreatWall ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE miss this one! door?


......................
LOST: 1 keychain with 8 keys over Will Pay $ For Used Mac TO CAMPUS. ~ ~ ------------------­AAA Meeting Navy weekend. If found please call Nonprofit needs used computers. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 Uda­!@##%$%"%."&(•&(")•( Ken @ x1216 Good price. 273-1952 PM Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­No more sleeping over. Papa G 
& ASK FOR SANDY. rapher husband wish to adopt new­would be upset. For more information and assis­LOST: my prize posession; fuzzy Male or female: Want to earn some born. Will provide love, nurturing tance regarding the investigation of plaid J.Crew gloves in 101 $$'s? Dispose of our leaves. 272-environ., educ., financial security. Brian-financing, business opportunities DeBartolo on the day of the 4404 FOR SALE Hollywood Hills home has large t was talking to this guy at a party and work-at-home opportunities, PHYSIO test. I flunked the test, at back yard and loving dog. Call and he said you were a ... contact the Better Business Bureau least let me have my glolves back. PART-TIME BRANCH CLERK SPEAKER: Liner Phase Studio 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & I was talking to this guy at a party of Michiana, 52303 Emrnons Rd., HUGH REWARD-it's going to get American General Finance, one of Monitor...like new Great for parties Confidential. and he said you were a ... Suite 9, South Bend, IN 46637-cold soon. Deborah X4320 the leading consumer finance orga­& bands. $250 OBO. Jeff 233--ULM 4200; or call the BBB at 219/277-nizations, is seeking a responsible 2460. ADOPTION ... INTERESTED IN 9121 or 800/439-5313. individual to fill a part-time Branch HEARING MORE?? This week's roster may be the best 
Navy Alorna Coat Clerk position in our South Bend Brand new gold pocket watch for Warm, professional fndiana couple, yet. Nothing but pure class Spring Break Bahamas Party and office. sale. $$$ less than jewelers!!! lots of experience with children, Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days Navy J.Ashford Sweater The Branch Clerk provides routine Great X-mas gift! Paulina x2985 would love to talk to you about what Our dearest apologies are extended $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 taken from Senior Bar on Thurs., office and clerical support to the we can offer your precious child. to Pete Kendall (yeah. whatevah). Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! 11/9. PLEASE return-branch. Stability, nurturing, love of learning, The jughead was even benched Prices Increase 11/21 & 12115! I'M FREEZINGI!II Flexible around school hours. For PERSONAL travel, lots of extended family, and this week. Next stop -Maryann's, Spring Break Travell-800-678-No questions asked ..Maria X4034 immediate consideration please call full-time mom are just some of the 6386 291-1019. Equal Opportunity 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 things that your child would expen­Just to remind you all, SPORTS 
. Employer. 0c0c0o0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 ence in our home. Interested in STILL AND ALWAYS WILL ROCK
WANTED

Spring Break! Panama City! Early !@#@%$$"%&"\&(&"$%@ hearing more? CALL US (day or
I

Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room AAA Meeting night). Expenses paid. Theresa & Jazzman's still looks like Greg With Kitchen $1291 Walk To Best ThisWEDNESDAY 11/15 Lee 1-800-600-8428. Brady's room in the Johnny Bravo Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach 9:30pm episode. Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 Library Auditorium $5.50 HAIRCUT & 12/1511-800-678-6386 AGENDA: VITO'S BARBER SHOP I heard soccer players make good 
1525 LINCOLNWAY WEST punching bags . . Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and 1. MAASU -this Weekend!! 233-4767 Specials! 111% Lowest Price Breakfast Inn has space available 2. AAA House Party Hey Smalls. Eye of the Tiger. Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­3. Asian Studies Courses There's no easy way out when Bend & Hotel From $419! Book ALASKA EMPLOYMENT­vate baths. Located in Middlebury, 4. GreatWall ADOPTION you're livin' in America getting Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Students Needed! Fishing Industry. 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418-A wonderful home awaits your stronger Spring Break Travell-800-678-Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per 9487 AAA Meeting baby. Happily married, financially 6386 month. Room and Board I !@##%$%"%""&('&(")"( secure couple will give much love. "Please DeAngelo. Come play for 
Transporatior)! Male or Female. No Comfortable 2 Bdrm home. 1 mi. to 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 Expenses paid. Call Margaret or the Irish. Even though you're not experience necessary. Call campus. $450/mo. Call Chuck 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0o0c0 Peter at 800-529-8386. from Florida I'll still perform sexual
ILOST & FOUND I 

(206)545-4155 extA55842 Majcher at 273-0860. favors if you really run a 4.35."-JG 
..... I'm going to PA for Thanksgivingll HEY PEE WEE I!I "LOST" NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ROOMMATE WANTED: To share Do you need a ride?????? Turn off the stereo-it's three in the Two for two. Black Pagemart Motorola Pager. Seasonal & full-time employment 2-bdr. house w/ F Grad student Call ME-Susan 284-5060 morning! The dress is getting burnt. Has been reported lost to the com­available at National Parks, Forests and dog. near campus, wash/drier. 0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0 pany and is now inactive. & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits + quiet neighborhood. $150/mo +. ....HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY•••• Swisher Sweets rock my world . Its return would be appreciated. bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. Call Jackie 232-7970 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Stephen Perry!! What a great gift! Thanks Timbo! If found please call Nikole at N55842 LaFortune Student Center Love, Ann 4-1265. Thankyou. Need 1 roommate now &1 more We're open for your convenience!!! Eric Montross -An Aryan who can 
Heading East for Thanksgiving? next sem. $195 Turtle Creek 273-Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Need FREE ride to Boston tor play basketball. Dante's Inferno is ••••• LOST •••• Need $$? Need a ride for two, 2366 Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Thanksgiving? ND Alum and family about to heat up. Go Heels. 
SMALL GOLD HOOP dropped off somewhere along Sat.: Noon -6:00pm leaving for Peabody Wed. AM EARRING 80/90 near Cleveland! Call 4-6 BDRM HOME NEAR ND. NEXT Sun.: Noon -Midnight returning Sun. Share driving. 282-Synders' Pretzels 79 cents. What a CALL 3709 1319. FALL.272-6306 (closed home football Saturdays) 1961 bargain. That is a bargain for me. I 
would buy some if I had any balls. 

I \ ' • \ I • • 'I • 'I t 
~........~-···~C.-..tJ.~......~.._......_...J,.:A;.t...&...l.&.A A.l.L.a....t...&.".L.l.i l 1 ll.t l.t• • 1 l ._,.l"t.'•····:• 

Tuesday, November 14, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Steelers suffocate sagging Browns 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 

Art Modell was wrong. The Cleveland Browns aren't going anywhere -at least not in the standings, and not with rookie Eric Zeier at quarterback. 
Modell was missing, and so was the Browns' offense in probably their last visit to Pitts­burgh as the Steelers seized a two-game lead in the AFC Central Division with a 20-3 victory Monday night. 
The Steelers' revived Blitzburgh defense harassed Zeier into a succession of in-completions, fumbles and too­hurried throws. and their own rookie quarterback, Kordell Stewart, upstaged him by throwing for a touchdown on his first NFL pass. 
Stewart ran nearly the width of the field and back again to hit Ernie Mills on a disputed 2­yard go-ahead touchdown pass in the second quarter, finishing 
~'·~-~.;~ 
(( .11A11 .. ~) ==========il \4""'"'"""''' ~~ I'""":I•Pt!•"• 
U "'I\' I I \II' HI Nul •• 1J • 1.11
"""··· .. ,.. ,..,.... , ...... 
Lecture Event 


.. Hiroshima: Necessary Evil?.. 
Tues. Nov. 14 8:00PM Morrissey Lobby 
Refreshments to be served 
off a 75-yard drive kept alive by Stewart's own 11-yard third­down catch on a third-and-11 play. 
The touchdown shouldn't have counted, as TV replays showed Mills going out of bounds in the right corner of the end zone before making the pivotal catch deep in the left corner. 
But the controversy -several Browns argued vehmently with referee Ron Blum without avail -didn't diminish the impact of Stewart, who became the fourth Steelers quarterback to throw a touchdown pass this season, or the revived Pitts­burgh running game. 
Lining up at quarterback or wide receiver only on third downs, Stewart, the former Colorado quarterback whose Hail Mail pass beat Michigan last season, threw for a touch­down, caught two passes and ran for a first down. 
Stewart was on the field for fewer than a dozen plays, yet clearly outplayed Zeier, whom Modell forecast only two weeks ago would excite Cleveland fans like no Browns' rookie ever. 
Erric Pegram ran for 112 yards on 26 carries, 76 of them in the second half as the Steel­ers sat on leads of 7-3, 10-3, 13-3 and 20-3. It was their first 100-yard rushing game since the now-retired Barry Foster's 133 yards in the Steelers' 29-9 playoff victory over Cleveland last seasoh. 

The defending division cham­pion 3teelers (6-4) won their third in a row since a stretch of four losses in five games, and now lead Cincinnati and Cleveland by two games. The Steelers can almost put the division away by beating Cincinnati and Cleveland on Nov. 26. 
'Missle' Ismail finally setting fire in Minnesota offense 

ByRON LESKO 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. 
There is one word Qadry Is­mail almost cannot bring him­self to say. His sentences break off when he comes to it, and a deep sigh usually precedes it. 
It isn't fumbles or drops, two words that have come up too often during his 2 1/2 NFL sea­sons. The word is patience, and it's something Ismail has strug­gled with throughout his undu­lating career. 
"As a third-year receiver you look at other guys who are re­ally excelling in the league. You're just drooling and saying, 'I want to be those guys,"' Ismail said Monday, a day after his 50-yard catch in overtime gave the Minnesota Vikings a 30-24 victory over the Arizona Cardinals. 
"Bu~ I realize ... I have to be patient. I hate that word, but 

Breaking Away for Thanksgiving? 
Ride 
llt\IITFn I I~()
-
~· --~---------__. ----­
..... ---.............., 

Your convenient connection to the Chicago Airports United Limo leaves campus ten times daily for O'Hare and Midway Airports. Board at the Bus Shelter on Notre Dame Avenue next to the Morris Inn. 
leave Campus Notre Dame  Arrive O'Hare Airport  Arrive O'Hare Airport  Arrive Mi way Airport  
Bus Shelter  Upper level  International Terminal  All Airlines  
All Airlines  TerminalS  Via Connection to  
Upper Level  Tri State Coach  
4:00AM  5:55AM  6:10AM  6:10AM  
6:00AM  7:55AM  8:10AM  8:10AM  
8:00AM  9:55AM  10:10AM  10:10AM  
9:00AM  10:55 AM  11:10AM  11:10AM  
10:00AM  11:55AM  12:10PM  12:10 PM  
12:00AM  1:55PM  2:10PM  2:10PM  
1:00PM  2:55PM  3:10PM  3:10PM  
2:00PM  3:55PM  4:10PM  4:10PM  
4:00PM  5:55PM  6:10PM  6:10PM  
6:00PM  7:55PM  8:10PM  8:10PM  


Fares to Midway or O'Hare from Notre Dome: $28 One Way I $52 Round Trip Tickets con be purchased from our driver or through your travel agent. For further information coll254-5000 
Your Airport Connection •All Day, Every Day 
I'm learning to understand the importance of being patient." 
True to his surname -"big plays and the name Ismail are synonymous," he said -the Missile wasn't just the Rocket's younger brother by the time the Vikings drafted him out of Syracuse with the second pick in 1993. 
Ismail caught 19 passes as a rookie, and became one of the most exciting Vikings in 1994. He tied team record with touch­down catches in four con­secutive games, including an 11-yard catch to beat New Or­leans with five seconds remain­ing and a diving 40-yarder against Tampa Bay that helped send that game to overtime. 
Of his 45 catches, 23 came on third down. 
"I really feel good about being able to make big plays, but obviously you don't want to just be known as the one-play wonder," he said. "I would love 
Lunches starting at .....$4.25 Dinners starting at ..... $5.95 

to be more involved with the of­fense." 
That seemed a given until a fumbled kickoff set up a Detroit field goal in Week 2. That gaffe, one of several that have led to questions about Ismail's hands and his dedication, seriously hurt his playing time. His fum­ble three weeks ago against Chicago cost Minnesota a chance to send that game to overtime. 
All of a sudden, the inconsis­tency it seemed Ismail had licked in 1994 was back. "If you don't do what you're sup­posed to do, somebody else is always in line to do it," said coach Dennis Green. 
So David Palmer and Chris Walsh have gotten more time despite not playing much at re­ceiver last year. On Sunday, Ismail got a chance to make the winning catch only because Jake Reed was out with a hip pointer. 
----, 
Chinese -American Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge 1\uthentic Szechuan, 
Ml:ndarin & Hunan Cuisir.:: 
Votcd.Be~~ 


Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Ori'!ntal Restm1ranr 
in Michiana by ·.'.

130 Dixie Way N., South Reod ~\-liclliatla Nul,v..l
(next to RaOO&ll's 1m) 

The Notre Dame Finance Club Presents: 
Mr. Tom Skelly 
Managing Partner ofFinancial Services Andersen Consulting 
Tuesday, November 14, 7 o o 
p.m. Room 15 8College of Business Administration 
All MBA s, Seniors, and Juniors interested are invited and encouraged to attend. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 14, 1995 


Another trophy for Biggio on the block 
By MICHELLE KOIDIN "We were hoping to try to the momentum in the drive to 
Associated Press wrap this matter up on Friday sell tickets, which began Friday 
Braves' Maddux 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
For Greg Maddux, winning the Cy Young Award-even unanimously -is just another part of his routine. 
"We might have a little party tomorrow night or something," he said Monday after capturing his fourth consecutive NL Cy Young, his second straight by a shutout vote. "After winning the World Series, we're pretty much partied out." 
Maddux, at 29 perhaps not even halfway through his ca­reer, continued to put up num­bers that can be compared only with baseball's greats. 
Steve Carlton is the only other pitcher to win four Cy Youngs. He did it for Philadelphia in 1972, 1977, 1980 and 1982. 
Sandy Koufax is the only other pitcher to win the award unanimously in consecutive years -in 1965-66 for the Dodgers. 
"It's really hard for me to talk about the history of the game because my history goes back 10 years," Maddux said during a telephone news con­ference from his home in Las Vegas. 
"When I heard comparisons about people who pitched in the '50s or '60s or '70s, I can't really relate to it. I didn't really watch baseball a whole lot back then. I really wasn't the fan then I am now. I just take it as a nice compliment on move 
on." 
Maddux, who led the Atlanta Braves to their first World Se­ries title, received 140 points in balloting announced by the Baseball Writers Association of America. 
Maddux led the NL in wins with a 19-2 record, and was tops in the league in ERA (1.63) and complete games (10). He became the first major leaguer since Walter Johnson in 1918­19 to have an ERA under 1.80 in consecutive seasons. 
Cincinnati's Pete Schourek was second in the voting with 55 points, followed by Braves teammate Tom Glavine with 
DART 
CLOSED SECTIONS AS OF 7:00 P.M. 11/13/95 
AFAM 454 01 3028 ARCH 562 01 0529 ARCH 566 01 2274 ARCH 585 01 1058 ARST 297S 01 1069 ENGL 491 01 0509 GOVT 301 01 3811 HIST 454A 01 3027 HIST 473A 01 3918 liPS 412 01 4424 LAW 695 01 0121 LAW 695 02 2315 LAW 695 03 1411 LAW 695 04 2464 LAW 695 05 1876 LAW 695 06 1087 MUS 226 01 2513 PHIL 246 01 2342 PHIL 247 01 3383 PHIL 261 01 0310 soc 346 01 3034 soc 422 01 4174 THEO 290C 01 4210 THTR 230 58 9758 THTR 272 60 9760 THTR 276 62 9762 

or this weekend in hopes of with the announcement that HOUSTON avoiding entering into this un­the club was staying," Smith30. Los Angeles rookie Hideo 
All-Star second baseman 

restricted free agency climate, said.
Nomo was fourth with 19 and Craig Biggio became available and we weren't able to do "The longer this goes, from aDodgers pitcher Ramon Mar­to negotiate with other teams that," McClaren said. marketing standpoint we losetinez had eight. 

Monday after declining a $20 Smith added he's worried the added benefit." 
Many say Maddux already is million, four-year offer from about the team's marketing The Houston Chronicle hasa lock to make· the Hall of the Houston Astros. 

efforts since McLane has said reported that Biggio was seek­Fame. His career record is 150­"Craig has been an invalu­he may try to sell the club. The ing a new contract in the range93 with a 2.88 ERA. 
able part of this organization owner said next season's at­of $5 million a year. First base­"That's something you don'·t and we're just very disappoint­tendance must increase dra­man Jeff Bagwell, 1993's

think about," he said. "If it 
ed that we weren't able to get it matically or the Astros could National League MVP, hashappens, great. I'm going to do 

done," Astros vice president 

try to move as early as the asked to be traded if the Astros what I've always done. I'm go­Bob McClaren said. 1997 season. didn't re-sign Biggio, who madeing to go out there and makes McClaren said it's possible "It would have really helped $4.5 million last season.
as many good pitches as I can. 
Biggio could get the offer back, 
That's good enough for me. 
"but we're going to have to
Whether I'm 20-0 or 0-20, it start making plans ourselves todoesn't much matter." 
address other needs on the
Maddux has won the Cy 
team.

Young in each of his three sea­AD.AM. Standard-Student Edition is your
"We can't wait until this 

sons with the Braves. He says multimedia survival kit for passing
whole matter is resolved to lookhe's a much better pitcher than to better our team for 1996." anatomy. Dissect, identify, study systems

when he started with the 
and regions. Prepare better, faster.
Chicago Cubs. 
McClaren said Astros officials

"Back then, I was pretty Special student price -$149.95 
wanted to sign Biggio on Fri­much brain dead heaver," he day, when the second baseman Visit your college bookstoresaid. 'Now I'd like to think I met with Astros owner Drayton or call 1-800-322-1377.

know something about pitching 
McLane and president Tal
that I can apply on the field." 
Smith. 


Conversation on the Catholic Character ofNotre Dame 
Notre Dame and Baylor: What We've Learned from Both 
Prof. Michael Beaty and Prof. Larry Lyon 
Baylor University 
Professors Michael Beaty (Philosophy) and Larry Lyon (Sociology), both of Baylor University distributed a questionnaire to Notre Dame faculty last spring as a part of a research project, "Religion and Higher Education: A Case Study of Baylor University," which is funded by the Lilly Endowment. Similar surveys were conducted at Baylor and Boston College. They will discuss some of their initial findings. 
7:30p.m. Wednesday, November 15th 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Discussion period to follow. 
luesday, November 14, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
Bowl 
continued from page 20 
the tied teams they want. 
Miami playing Notre Dame in tlw Orange Bowl would clearly be a marquee match-up that wouldn't be passed on. 
This all changes though if Bobby Bowden can continue his mastery over Steve Spurrier and UF. 
A Florida State victory would probably send the Seminoles back to Tempe, the site of their national championship-clinch­ing victory in 1993. 
In turn, a once-defeated Gator squad (again assuming they can handle the upstart Arkansas Razorbacks in the SEC title game on December 2nd), would likely be pegged by the Orange Bowl to face Miami. 
That would leave Notre Dame with a Sugar Bowl date with the SWC pick. The victor of the Lone Star showdown between Texas and Texas A&M would be tabbed. A rematch with the Longhorns is not the most ap­pealing scenario that could take place, nor is another Aggie game. 
If the Seminoles win, it would take a Miami loss to prevent another SWC hoe-down. In that case Virginia Tech would be the winner and the Orange Bowl would prefer either the 'Horns or Aggies to face Florida. That would leave the Irish to take on the Hokies. 
Even if the Irish stumble against Air Force. odds are, the Orange or Sugar Bowl is still most likely. 
If Notre Dame is 8-3, they would almost definitely be ranked ahead of the Big East champion, thus ensuring their spot as the at-large bid. 

Asian Courses for Spring 1996 
Classical and Oriental Languages ..• 

COAC112..()I COAC212..01 COAJI12·01 COAJl12-02 
Beginning Chinese II  CQAJ212·01  
ContinuingChinese II  COJ\1312·01  
First Year Japilllese 11  COAJ412·01  
First Year Japanese II  COJ\1422-01  

...and Literatures 
,,,Secoq~ Year Japanese lJ ··•· third Year Japanese-~
·..FourJih YearJ~panesdf; 
·· · . ·Ak
Advanced japanese u· . 

COAT240-0l (HIST240, HIST 140) *Introduction toJapaneseCivilization .. ,. COAT 368-01 (ENGL 315A, GSC 368) *Self and Society lil Modem Japanese Literature COAT 380-01 (ENGL 315B) *Traditional Chine$eHction COAT 450-01 (COTH 439) *Japanese Classical Theatre 
Please consult Dept. course description booklet for details ®304 O'Shaughnessy., 

Other Departments 

ECON 471-01 ECON 562-01 ENGL 396A-Ol (AMST 303E) llS 180-31 GOVr 356-01 (COAT 483,11PS 456,STV 456) 
PHIL 220-01 (GSC 220) 
THEO 290-01 
MARK 487-01 International Economics International Trade *Vietnam *A chin-wortdVi~w , ·r *Traditi~m& tib<fern.zatfon;,;in {;hina and japan .. ·• ·,. ,,,"k I *Asian PhiloSQphy ,. ,' ;. *ChristianU;y ~ World ReligiQnsr 
i:~~!~:!~~ BJtsiness ; ' 

Saint Mary's College ;1 ART 293 ·*AsiairArt \ 
* These courses fulfil requirements for the Asian Area Studies certificate program. 
•NFL 

Woodson attempts the impossible 
By ALAN ROBINSON 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Cornerbacks as good as Rod Woodson-and there haven't been many in the NFL's 76 seasons -are accustomed to life on the edge, in the fast lane, on the precipice of potential disaster on every pass play. 
Not this season, at least not for Rod Woodson. Every bor­ing day in Woodson's life is a ritual in routine -swim, stretch, stair-climbing machine, ride the stationary bicycle, rehabilitate. Sit. sit, sit and wait. No games. No practice. No nothing. 
No fear? Now that's differ­ent. The Pittsburgh Steelers' six-time Pro Bowl cornerback labors away daily in part be· cause, like any good athlete, there is a nagging fear he won't be the same when he returns. Not as fast, not as strong, not as fluid, not as good as the player who was voted to the NFL's all-time team only last season. 
So. for now, Woodson at­tempts the seemingly impossi­ble: to return from a torn anterior cruciate ligament injury in the same season in which he was injured. It is believed that no NFL player has accomplished the come· back in so little time. 



---=-~~~ --:: -=:-:--_ -­--­--­MORGAN STANLEY & CO. Incorporated cordially invites students ofall majors to attend a presentation on Opportunities in Our Financial Analyst Program When: Wednesday, November 15, 1995 • 7:00-8:30p.m. Where: The University Club, Main Lounge What: Representatives and University of Notre Dame graduates from Morgan Stanley will be present to discuss: • The Investment Banking Industry • Opportunities fn the Financial Analyst Program Refreshments will be served  


"Everybody tells· me I'm crazy," Woodson said during one of his almost daily visits to the Stealers' weight room. ''The doctors tell me I'm crazy. (The players) tell me I'm crazy. Everybody tells me I'm crazy, so ['m crazy. But I know I'd be going crazy if [ didn't have this." 
What keeps Woodson going, and what has kept him on the Steelers' active roster, is hope -specifically. that he could play again in January during the playoffs. 
Regardless, an injury so serious -a patella tendon was transplanted to replace his torn ACt. and he also tore cartilage -typically requires six to 12 months to heal. The injury sometimes can cost an athlete not one. but two sea· sons of competition. 
But the day after he was in, jured while awkwardly tried to tackle the Lions' Barry Sanders in the Steelers' open· er, Woodson asked his doctors to estimate the )east amount of time it would take to recov· er. 
Told four months, Woodson said, "Let's do it." 
"The chance of him coming back is slim, but the only rea­son there is a chance Is it's Rod Woodson," Stealers coach Bill Cowher said. "He's already weeks ahead of the doctors." 
.. 

~~--~-~---------------~ ~--~ 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, November 13, 1995 
• BOXING 

Bruno brandishes belt as bout with Tyson finalized 
By STEPHEN WADE 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Frank Bruno lasted only five rounds the last time he fought Mike Tyson, but that was six years ago when nothing seemed to go right for the British WBC champion. 
"This time I've got the belt and I'm the champion," Bruno said Monday, confirming his March 16 title fight in Las Ve­gas with Tyson. "When I fought the last time, I wasn't right mentally, but now it's a whole new kettle of fish. 
"I feel confident and the time is right for me," he added. "Tyson's been in prison for three years and out of the ring for four. If people think he's unbeatable, they need their heads examined. If they think that, they'll think I'm unbeliev­able when I beat him." 
''I'm not trying to fight Tom, Dick or Harry, I'm trying to fight the creme de Ia creme and 

.. 
past•...all funds ··t:ri)J:n ;,.LNO willgo to b~nefit$p~~ Olympics. Any s1Utt~nt in,t}jr~ ested should calll-8237. · · Rockne Memorial Thanksgiving 1995 -Wed, Nov. 22 Building 7 a;rn. * 7 p.m.; Pool 7-9 a.rnliloon "fi p.m.; wt. room 3 -6 p.m. Thur. Nov. 23 Closed Fri. Nov. 24 Building 7 a.m. -7 p.m.; pool 7 -9 a.m. noon 
• 2 p.m.; wt. room closed Sat. Nov. 25 Building 10:;. a.m. -8:30 p.m.; pool 1·6u p.m.: wt. room closed Sun. Nov. 26 Bu.tlding 10 a.m. -11 p.m.; pool 7 -11 p.m.: wt. room noQti.· f:i. p.m,; 
"'0
family hours 2 ·5 .::;,.,.';, > 

Spring Break 1996 TRAVEL FREE!! 
Jamaica. Cancun. Bahamas 
panama City. paytona. Padre ** Great low, low prices ** Free Trip on only 15 sales 
Call for a FREE ~ jnformatjon packet ! ~ 
~ Sun Splash Tours u 1-800-426-7710 
Mike Tyson is No. 1. He's still up there. He's out of prison. He's the boxer to beat, to wipe him ofT the map and go down in history." 
Bruno, 33, made history when he defeated American Oliver McCall in September to become the first British heavy­weight in 98 years to win the title in the ring. 
The British bookmakers William Hill remained uncon­vinced, listing Tyson as a 1-to-7 favorite Monday to take back the title. 
The WBC sanctioned the Bruno-Tyson fight last week in Thailand after British courts threw out a suit by Lennox Lewis contending he deserved the first shot at a mega-rich Tyson bout. 
Lewis has filed a similar suit in New Jersey trying to bar the Bruno-Tyson fight. Bruno's pro­moter Frank Warren said the suit was to be ruled on Nov. 28 and predicted it would fail, too. He also threatened a counter­suit against Lewis. 
"The WBC has sanctioned this fight," Warren said. "If Lewis continues with this he will find himself on the other side of a lawsuit." Warren said a contract for the bout was signed last summer. 

Tyson, who was to fight Buster Mathis Jr. last weekend, has postponed that fight until January because of a broken thumb. 
"I don't think anybody is in position to say exactly what Tyson will be like," Warren said. "He still appeared to have great hand speed in the (89­second) fight over Peter Mc­Neeley in August. What I'm hoping is that the stamina isn't there and at the end this guy (Bruno) knocks him over." 
"We all know Mike Tyson can be knocked down." Warren added. "One thing for sure is that Frank Bruno is probably 
the hardest puncher of all of them." 
Bruno called the year-long leadup to the 1989 Tyson fight "the worst training period of my life." The fight was post­poned several times. His trainer George Francis said he was over-trained and tired by the time he fought. 
"The last time it was called ofT several times and Frank got down to his lightest weight he's ever been, 20 pounds below what he is now," Francis said. "We'll probably go back to the States again to train -maybe in a high altitude site. Frank's in the best shape of his life." 


You are not a ntooch. But when a hole in your pocket renders you changeless, you r e l u c t a n t l y call the folks collect. You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. Your pangs of guilt are l'ninit'nal. 
1 800 CALL MT always costs less than I-soo-conEcr 
Ahnt~·s works lrom an~ phone. And ahnt~·s gets you the relilthlc ..u&T Network. 
l'se it ll'llel/ei'CI' you're qff etiiii/JIIS. 

Know the Code. I 800 CALL ATT. That's Your Jrue Choice:M 
-

AT&T 
Your True Choice 
• For interstate calls. Promotions excluded 1-BOO-COLLFCT is a registered uademark of Ma 
C 1995 Al&T 

....... ..,...... ~ ••• ··~· .. ----..........OJ .................. ~ ...........~-··-········--· _ ................................................ . ------------· --------. •• ····---------.a.....&-........... -.....;& ..........................................~ _:;.,10. '·~•.& I J' 
Tuesday, November 14, 1YY5 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 

Kings rally behind 
Gretzky, Storr 
Auociated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Wayne Gretzky and Kevin Todd scored less than two minutes apart late in the sec· ond period and the Los Angeles Kings beat the Mighty Dueks of Anaheim 4-2 in the only NHL game Monday night. 
Gretzky and rookie defense· man Aki Berg each two assists for the Kings, who won for only tho second time in the last eight meetings with their freeway rivals. Tony Granato and Rick Tocchet also scored for the Kings. 
Jamie Storr, the seventh overall pick in the 1994 drat't and the highest picked goalie in Kings history, made his 
· first start in two weeks and stopped 32 shots. He also ended Mike Slllinger's five· game goal-scoring streak. 
Kings coach Larry Robinson rested red-hot Byron Dafoe, who had faced an average of 
45.6 shots In his previous six games with Kelly Hrudey re­covering from a sprained left ankle. 
Patrik Carnback scored his fourth goal and set up Paul Kariyn's 13th. as Anaheim ab­sorbed its first loss following a club-record five-game home winning streak. 
Gretzky put the Kings ahead 2·1 with 4:07 left in the sec­ond period, taking a pass in the neutral zone from Granato and beating Guy Hebert to the stick with a slap shot from the top of the right circle. 
Robert Lang's hard work behind the Anaheim net resulted in Todd's second goal moments later. Lang worked the puck away from David Karpa and backhanded a pass to Todd, who found daylight between Hebert's arm and the left post. 
Kariya scored with 11:43 to play, but tho Kings responded with only their second power­play goal in 21 attempts. Toc­chet got his eighth goal on a backhander from low in the slot during a goalmouth scramble with 4:35 left and Bobby Dollas sitting out an in­terference penalty. 
Anaheim scored on its thi.rd shot of the game. as Kariya took a pass from Shaun Van Allen and found Carnback the left of the net at 6:40 of the first period for his fourth goal. The assist extended Kariya's point-scoring streak to eight games. 

!Recycle The Observer! 
•NFL 

Bears consider move to Indiana 
Associated Press 
GARY, Ind. 
A report that a Chicago Bears stadium in northwest Indiana would be part of a $500 million entertainment complex is partly correct, the head of a group trying to lure the team here said Monday. 
NIPSCO Industries Chairman Gary Neale would not comment on specifics in the Crain's Chicago Business article. The group will unveil its proposal Wednesday, he said. 
"It has some of the facts," Neale said. "I don't know where Crain's got all their data. Some of it is reasonable facts, some of it isn't." 
Crain's reported Monday that Neale and his group want to build a 74,000 seat, open-air stadium near the Gary Regional Airport. The complex also would have a Bears Hall of Fame, restaurants, an outdoor music theatre, an 80-acre lake and a shopping mall. 
Other components of the pro­ject reportedly would include a ferry service from Chicago and a light-rail line linking the ferry terminal to the stadium. 
Lake County, Ind., taxpayers would be asked to help fund the stadium through a county in­come tax or a 1 percent tax on food and beverages consumed outside the home, according to Crain's. 
Neale would not comment on this, saying only that the pro­posal will come from a "public­private partnership." 

The project would put Gary in competition with Chicago's pro­posal to remodel the Bears' current home, Soldier Field, for $156 million'. Tha1 project would add 4,000 seats and 64 skyboxes, generating about $20 million in new revenue, accord­ing to the Crain's report. 
"We're confident in our plan," said Jim Williams, a spokesman for Mayor Richard 
M. Daley. The Bears expect to pick a site by December. 
Daley believes the Bears will opt to stay in Chicago because it would maintain the team's long ties to the city and a new lease arrangement would let the team make at least $5 mil­lion a year more in concession deals, Williams said. 
Young undergoes surgery 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS ksociated Press 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
Steve Young, still troubled by his ailing left shoulder, underwent arthroscopic surgery this morning and will be lost to the San Francisco 49ers for another three to four weeks. 
Young, who won MVP honors during the 1994 season and in the Super Bowl, has been sidelined since an Oct. 15 loss at Indianapolis in which he suffered a sprain and bone bruise in his passing shoulder. 
Team physician Michael Dillingham forecast a four-week rehabilitation and Young, trying to return in time for Sunday's game at Dallas, tried to accelerate his recovery. 
But lingering soreness forced him to back off workouts in the past two weeks, and coach George Seifert said today that team officials, Dillingham, and Young all decided he shoulder undergo exploratory arthroscopic surgery to bet­ter determine the nature of the injury. 

The decision to perform the procedure was made during the plane ride home from the 49ers' 38-20 victory Sunday at Dallas. Elvis Grbac, who has started the past four games in place of Young and threw for 305 yards and two scores in the win at Dallas, will remain San Francisco's starter until Young can return. 
"It was like Steve was getting better but never quite went over the top," Seifert said. 
Seifert said Young would need three to four weeks to recover from the arthroscopic proce­dure alone. However, if the procedure finds addi­tional damage, Young could miss even more time. 
Spring 1996 Center for Social Concerns Setnl.na..:r The Mexico Seminar is a one-credit service-learning opportunity in Oaxaca, Mexico. During two weeks in late spring/early summer, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students provide service to a variety of people while experiencing the realities of Latin America directly. Cosponsored by Maryknoll, the program seeks to provide intercultu~al exchange through shared work experience in the context of a fa1th community. Students participate in fundraising efforts to lower costs. • Two weeks in Oaxaca, Mexico: May 13 to May 30th, 1996 (leaving time for summer work) • Service-learning cosponsored by Maryknoll (Call and Response Program) • One credit TI1eology (Theo 366) • Spanish helpful but not required • Information Meeting: Tuesday, Nov. 14, 7:00 PM at the Center (optional) • Applications are available at the Center • Applications due Nov. 27th by 1:00PM with deposit For more information: Kristin Figge, 634-1093 Kelly Walsh, 634-4055 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293  Center for Social Concerns Spring 96 eL S~LV~OO~ Setnl.na..-r The El Salvador Seminar is a new experiential learning initiative for 1996. This one credit course will center around two weeks of study and observation in and around the nation's capital, San Salvador. Participants will witness and explore the reality of reconstruction of this Central American country that has had various contacts with the University of Notre Dame during it history. • Course meetings: Tuesdays at 4:15 PM during spring semester • Two weeks in El Salvador: May 16 to May 31st, 1996 • One credit Theology or Peace Studies • Spanish helpful • Information Meeting: Wednesday, Nov. 15,7:00 PM at the Center (optional) • Applications are available at the Center • Applications due Nov. 27th by 1:00 PM with deposit For more information: Peggy Desmond 634-2291 or 631-5319 Jay Brandenberger 631-5293  

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 14, 1995 
•NBA 
Magic prove they're bigger than Shaq 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
Sooner or later, Dennis Scott figures, the rest of the NBA will recognize the Orlando Magic is a team with more than one, or even two, dimensions. 
The defending Eastern Con­ference champions not only are coping with the loss of the in­jured Shaquille O'Neal, but they've quietly gotten ofT to the quickest start in the team's seven-year history. 
The Magic were 4-2 through six games each of the last three seasons with O'Neal, the de­fending league scoring cham­pion who will be sidelined until late December with a broken right thumb. 
While no one predicted the team would fall apart without its All-Star center, the 5-1 record Orlando will carry into Tuesday night's early-season showdown with Chicago is bet­ter than even coach Brian Hill expected at this point. 
The Magic opened with six games in just nine days, but benefited from playing four of those games at home -three against teams that were either overmatched, despite O'Neal's absence, or also were missing key players because of injuries. 
Saturday's night 94-93 come­from-behind victory over Miami was the team's first against an opponent with a winning record. But Scott said that shouldn't detract from what the Magic has accomplished. 
Despite the absence of a con­sistent low-post game with O'Neal sidelined, the Magic has rallied from double-digit deficits in three of its victories. Anfernee Hardaway's layup with 1.2 seconds left gave the Magic its only lead against Miami. 
"Of course no one believes what we're doing," Scott said. "But the way we look at it is we don't want any credit. Don't give us any credit. Just let us keep playing our game, playing hard, making scrappy plays going down the -stretch to win ball games." 
Hardaway, a first-team all­NBA selection last season, has adjusted to the role as the first option on offense. He scored a career-high 42 points in a triple-overtime victory over New Jersey and is averaging 27 per game -nine above his career average. 
The Magic are 8-3 in games O'Neal has missed because of injury or suspension in four seasons. Hardaway has played in 10 of those games, helping the team to an 8-2 record and posting the two highest scoring games of his career. 
But there's more to the club's success than Hardaway, who's also averaging 6.2 rebounds and 7.3 assists. 
Scott is producing 22 points per game, while Nick Anderson is averaging 15 even though the Magic's shooting percent­age is down (43 percent) from last season when Orlando was one of only two NBA teams that shot better than 50 percent. 
"We've got so many weapons on this team -guys who can just flat-out play the game ­but people talk about Penny and Shaq so much," Scott said. 
"But we're glad they do that because (opponents) forget about me and I can get out there and do my thing a little bit. They forget about Nick and leave him open, too." 
Another key has been free­throw shooting. 
The Magic have outscored the opposition 159-122 from the foul line, converting 73 per­cent of their attempts after fin­ishing last in the NBA a year ago. 

.. 

Harriers 
continued from page 20 
was to beat Michigan and we did that. But (the runners) will tell you they can run better." 
On his own performance, Hexing added, 'Tve been racing mediocre-I'm not sure what it could be attributed to...I ran a little better yesterday." 
Senior Derek Seiling led the second place effort, with a ninth place finish overall in a time of 31:31. Hexing was next with a time of 31:36 and a thir­teenth place finish. 
"I was happy and a little dis­appointed at the same time," Hexing recalled. "There were two groups of ten runners at the front, and I got caught in the slower group." Hexing con­tinued, "If I could have been in the front group, I think I could have finished in the top ten." 
Junior Matt Althoff was the third Notre Dame finisher with a time of 31:41 to earn a fif-
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 

teenth place finish. Senior cap­tain Joe Dunlop was next in 
31:54 for a twenty-third place finish, and freshmen Antonio Arce finished thirty-third in 32:18. 
Hexing said his goal for the team next week at the NCAA championships is to finish as high as possible. 
Piane talked about the NCAA championships. "Our goal is to run better. We wanted to make it (to the championships), now we want to finish in the top ten or even top four. It's a little more lofty, but it's not unat­tainable." 
"We'll definitely do a lot bet­ter than our second place fmish at districts shows," Hexing said. 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team was not able to advance, finishing sixth out of thirty-one teams. Notre Dame finished behind Michi­gan, Wisconsin Madison, Bowling Green, Purdue, and two points behind fifth place Marquette. 
Senior captain Maureen Kelly finished in 18:22 to finish six­teenth and lead the Notre Dame women. Kelly has a chance to be one of the six at­large runners at the champi­onships. Last season, Kelly earned an at-large berth at the championships en route to fin­ishing fifty-third overall. 
Fellow seniors Amy Siegel and Kristen Dudas ran times of 
18:28 and 18:33 to finish twen­ty-second and twenty-sixth overall. 
"Maureen Kelly, Amy Siegel, and Kristen Dudas ran ex­tremely well," Piane said. "They ran very aggressively ... ! was proud of them." 
Freshmen Mary Volland fin­ished fourth for Notre Dame, with a time of 19:05. Junior Michelle Lavigne rounded out the scoring for the Irish in 19:17. 
"Unquestionably the best race all year," Piane said of the women's performance. 


The Great American Smoke-Out Is Coming 
Quit for the Day! Quit for the Year! 
Quit for Life! 
Smoking Cessation Workshop Thursday November 16 
Student Health Center Room 300: 4:00-S:OOp.m. 
Call 631-7336 to register Contact Len Hickman, Ph.D. University Counseling Center 
(for information about the workshop or smoke cessation groups) 

Tuesday, November 14, 1995 
11 '{our-fo.c..e h \i \<:.e +'ne -\-c.v'\1-1, 
So f-ter.-1-stuff, 
{Yio.t J: \')o,11e e11e.r Setfl.. · 
\ 
T\.\E Pf1.Ct. OF MODt.RN LIFE 
\'3 AlL WRONG. If MAKES 
EVER'{ ()A'{ At-\ ORDEI\l. 
E.VER'il3oD'(S E.XHA\.l'5\ED, 
STl<ESSED OU\, 
J.ND 51-\0RI· 
TEMPERED.' 

DILBERT 
THE COI"\PAN'< PAYS f\1\£. TEN DOLLARS FOR EVERY BUG I FIX. IN 1"\Y 
CODE., RI\TBE.RT. 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
F",.ee of ChQ,.ge-Open to QU Not,.e OQme Students 
631-6100 

© © © © 
o.nck ellen a.\\ -\ \1e. 
meo.f\ .. · 
LOO~ AT ME! W\-\'f AM I 
WAITI\'IG FoR A BUS f1.T lt\15 1-\0RRIBLE HOUR ?.1 ITS 
UNN.I\T\J\~.II,L 
1\1'\D \JN\\t!>.Lm'f.' 
I WA"'T '<OU TO 00 
YOUR LITTLE. RAT DANCE 
ON MY KE.YBOARD 50 
I'LL HAVE LOT5 OF BUGS 
TOFU..) 
! D~..;..i2::!===?1 

The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE· 

HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE
O't\,J..
1-\j;,.£.1:: IYIA'DE ~·" (\
.. uollr n.,.·,r ·, "5 "Swtt-\-1'1 

NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE:
-r:'f/1 J' 

Be more discriminating in choosing
P•'-i('I\!;T\1'\LfY\En\ f\tl<'\L.A"T£
I f 7"
'Sotf o.nd. .. · · lv{f · 
f\-&.•""'"' 

your companions. Friends you make 
Po'-'\Nil'I!. IY\ot>E 1... lN'"' ... 

at Christmastime could open your 
I 
eyes to a whole new world. Ration
'ouff....? 

private and jointly owned resources.
ro'""\\>...? 

Stick to conventional business meth· ods. Money-making opportunities will abound next spring. May of '96 brings happy romance. Be true to your high ideals; avoid all fonns of deception. Estranged siblings decide to bury the hatchet once and for all. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Laum San Gia­como, composer Aaron Copland, author William Steig, painter Claude Monet. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Rely on your first impressions regarding people and events. A legal 
'«£. 'SI-\()I)L\) EASE INTO 11\E R\Giil. TIM£. 

obstacle can be overcome if you
DA'{ ! 'IOU KNOW, REI\D TI-lt. TO I<KK BACK 

show perseverance. Romance with a
PI\PER, 1-\A'I/t. 'SOME HOT COCO{>., ~R />.Lim£ 
younger partner could be terrific. GO RlR A LEISUREL'{ WI\LK Slt:STr~ M~D 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): AND GEl oUR T\-\005\iTS P\...J>..t-1 DINNH~.. 
You enjoy a new feeling of freedom now. Follow your heart. You will
T0<;81-\t.R ... 

soon be a position to obtain the things you want and need. Refuse to
\ 

~~ 
get entangled in other people's domestic squabbles. 
~~ 
~ 


Abraham 
2& With the bow, to a violinist 
27 Mall division 
Tennjs Cljnjc 
WednesdQlj, Nouembe,. 1S 6:30-8:30 Eck Tennjs PQuUjon 
&5 Holiday offering? && Stars : pain :: light bulb: &7 Olfactory stimulus &a Takes it easy &9Wildcat 70 Pub order 71 Putan­(stop) 
DOWN 1 Muslim journey 2 Grayish yellow 3 Pub orders 4 Steal on the range 5 It precedes 1-2-3 
& Peered 7 "Lucky Jim" author a Epsilon follower 9 Lively, in music 10 Stetson, e.g. 11 Outfit 12 Ciwies 13 Rock climber's spike 21 Place for a shoe tap 
Puzzle by Alan Arbesfeld 
28James-­Carter 29 Perlman of "Cheers" 30 Proverb 31 Vega's constellatiqn 34 Arabia's Gulf of 
35 Assert 
3& Not yours 
37 Sharp part 
39-disease 
(tick affliction) 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Avoid subjects that could ignite a
,• ~ 

hostile dialogue. Delve into a busi­ness, financial or real estate matter. Aiming for the stars is great if you do not trample on others' rights. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A secret assignment or business merg· er could bring new financial gains.
SCOTT ADAMS 

Take steps to provide for your future 
~ HOW ~ Af"\ I !u DOING'? 
43 Soft mineral 44 Shouting spot 45 Venison or veal 4& Dignify 

men·s f Women· 
by accumulating savings. Follow both intuitive promptings and friends' suggestions when seeking a solution to domestic worries. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Go slow 
NOT 50 GOOD. 

on expressing an opinion until cer­tain facts and figures have been veri· 
'<OU JUST 

fied. The future holds wonderful


•MENU 
Notre Dame NORTH Turkey Grill Sandwich Irish Brown Potatoes Cheeseburger Pie 
Saint Mary's Chicken Chow Mein Sole Primavera 

Oven Roasted Herb Potatoes 
• OF INTEREST 

Post~Graduate Service Opportunities: Colorado 
Vincentian Volunteers is recruiting for volunteers in 
schools, social services, health cnro, youth, literacy. 
women's programs and more. At the Center for So­
cial concerns today from 8 a.m. -5 p.m. Maryknoll 
Affiliates representatives will be at the Center today 
from 6 • 8 p.m. to explain programs and answer ques· 
tions about opportunities in the U.S. and overseas. 
The Center for Bioengineering and Pollution 
Control is hosting an open house today in 152A Fitz­
patrick hall. Tours will be given at 10 a.m., 11 a.m., 2 
p,.m., and 3 p.m. 

'Humanitarian Relelf Landscapes" will be the topic of a le(~ture given by Professor Stanley D. Brunn from the Dtlpartment of Geography of the University of Kentucky in Lexington. It will be held this after­noon at 4:15p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The Economics Honor Society CODE) will be host­ing a Peer Advising Night tonight from 7-9 P.M. in 116 O'Shaughnessy. This session is open to any student with questions about spring semester courses and 
57 Its logo is tour professors, as well as questions about opportunities 
linked rings 

available to Economic majors after graduation. 
58 Privy to 

Questions? Please contact John Compton (6'34-1771) 
59"--Lang 

or Sheila Zachman (634-4902). 
UQrsjttj Tennjs 
Stroke Ann,lJsls 
~ 

P'nlJing Sltuntlons 
JEANE DIXON 

surprises. Your chances for gaining public recognition, while boosting profits, increase. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make the best possible use of your resourcefulness and creativity. It is much too soon to make a financial commitment. Seek additional data. You need to be selective when join· ing social clubs and making friends. 
LIBRA (Sept. 2-3-0.ct. 22): Do not give in to a dissatisfied mood if duty keeps you pinned to your desk. Afternoon hours bring unexpected perks. Send out resumes if seeking a new job. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A confusing situation requires further investigation. Your work will be rewarded in tangible ways. Sharing your private thoughts will help you build stronger rapport with mate or offspring. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Excellent organizational skills are your strongest asset. Take deci· sive action to advance progress. Others will follow your lead. Sitting on the fence is for the birds. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A good day to take direct action in career and business matters. Learn how silence can help you serve people who are in need. Be a good listener. Something you hear turns a situation around. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Get your relations with co-workers back on track. A family talk or pri· vate business discussion helps you launch a pet project. ESP or a period of reflection will guide you to a wise decision. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Use common sense and good humor to neutralize conflicts. Investment proposals merit careful scrutiny. Postpone making a firm commit· ment. A candid chat helps banish secret worries. 
SOUTH Shrimp Spaghetti Chicken Fajita Salad Broccoli Spears 

CROSSWORD 
•.. 
• 
.. 

ACROSS 
1 Compassion 
8 Mideast "strip" 10 Cord fiber 14 "Without-" 
(1988film) 15 Word of 
agreement 1& Pablo's here 17 Treat, as a 
wound 18 Tubular pasta 19 Feather cluster 20Anyway 
23 Lance a lot in the news 24 Told a whopper 25 One degree of neatness 27 Tranquil 
30 Bachelor's last stand? 32 "That's a laugh!" 33 Parting words from a host 38 Pitcher Hershiser 40 esSalaam 41 "Amores" poet 42 Go along (with) 47 It's south of Scot. 48 Lobster locale 49 Appetizer follower 
51 Ailing 54 "Citizen 
55 Teachers' org. 5& Specialty &2 Words 
64 Sandwich filler 


Student 
50 Nonstick surface Syne" 51 To the point that &oThaw 52 Impecunious &1 Sinclair 53 Pallid alternative 54 Sears rival &3 Price add-on 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Presented Bq: 

"Terminator 2: Judgment Day" Js playing tonight at 7 p.m. in the Snite Theatre. "Stagecoach'' will fol­low at 9 p.m. The cost is two dollars. BOOKFAIR-will be held from today until Friday at Little Professor Book Center at Ironwood Plaza (Rt. 23 and ironwood). Deposit your sales receipt in designat­ed box at cash register and a percentage ot' totnl sales will go to the Ladies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Scholarship Fund for students of these institutions. Sponsored by Ladies Of Notre DamPJSt. Mary's. 

... 




SPORTS 

page 20 Tuesday, November 14, 1995 
Match-up with Miami among many possibilities 
By TIM SHERMAN major bowl since the victory over Associate Spom Editor Southern Cal on October 23. 
It's that time of year again. With just one game remaining in the regular sea­son and snow already on the ground, it could mean just one thing to Notre Dame. It's time to start thinking of the bowl game. 
Unlike last season's aberration, the Irish have been a virtual lock for a 
With three more weekends of college football still on tap, no destination is set in stone. However, the once monumen­tal task of determining where the Irish will be spending their New Year's Day is now a bit more manageable. 
Barring a highly unlikely chain of events and assuming Notre Dame is able to tame Air Force's potent option attack 

Freshman Kory Minor and the Irish have several possible bowl scenarios in front of them with three weeks left in the regular season . 

and return from Colorado Springs 9-2, the Irish will be playing in either the Sugar Bowl on December 31st or the Orange Bowl on January 1st. 
''I'd like to go the Sugar Bowl person­ally," freshman rush end Kory Minor said. ''I've heard so much about that bowl." 
As things stand right now, the Florida State/Florida showdown on November 25 is the major determinant on whether or not the Irish will be strolling down Bourbon Street on New Year's Eve. 
Should the 3rd ranked Gators prevail in the hostile environment that is "the Swamp", it is likely the Irish would be off to Miami. 
As a result of the rather complicated set-up of the Bowl Alliance, the Gators would probably face the undefeated Cornhuskers of Nebraska in the Fiesta Bowl. 
The Fiesta Bowl, designated in theory to be this season's national champi­onship, has the right to choose the first two teams from a group of six. 
The group of teams is comprised of the winners of the ACC, Big Eight, Big East, Southeastern Conference (SEC), 'Southwestern Conference (SWC), as well as one at-large team that is guaranteed to be Notre Dame should the Irish finish in the Top Ten or go at least 8-3 and fin­ish the season ranked ahead of sny of the other five conference winners. 
A match-up of two undefeated teams would be the dream of Fiesta Bowl offi­cials, as that contest would likely be deemed the national championship game, albeit with apologies to Ohio State. 
That would leave the Orange Bowl with the next pick, as well as the fifth selection. 
A 9-2 Irish squad would be the most attractive in terms of quality of the team, prestige, fan support, and, most importantly, the bottom-line of how much income they can rake in. 
If things break right for the Orange Bowl, their modest gathering could emerge into the bowl season's most intriguing match-up and rekindle one of the sports world's best rivalries. 
There is a definite possibility that the Irish could renew their dormant rivalry with the hated Hurricanes of Miami, who have made a mini-resurgence. 
Should Miami win their final two con­tests (home games against West Virginia and Syracuse), they would tie Virginia Tech for the Big East championship. 
Oddly enough, the Big East has no tie­breaker (if they did the Hokies would win no matter what the format) so the bowls are free to choose whichever of 
see BOWL/ page 15 
• CROSS COUNTRY 
Men look to NCAA's, women to next year 
ByB.J. HOOD Spom Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross country team landed a spot in the NCAA Championships next weekend despite the cold weather by placing second in the District meet at West Lafayette. 
The Irish finished ahead of Michigan State and Michigan among others of the thirty-one team field.· Wisconsin won the meet, finishing forty-one points ahead of Notre Dame. 
You would expect the Irish to be satisfied with securing the automatic bid to the NCAA championships, but sophomore Jason Hexing thinks the run­ners can do better. 
"I didn't think it was one of our better efforts," Hexing commented. "We can defi­nitely improve." 
Head coach Joe Piane agrees with Hexing. "We expected to qualify, and our goal all year 
see HARRIERS I page 18 
• SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING 
Calvin goes under 
second. The Belles pulled 
ahead in 12 of the 14. 
Saint Mary's kicked off the meet with an exciting 400 medley relay. The two teams 
Belles set 
records, 
were neck and neck, with each swimmer trying to out touch the other. Cheeseman
edge close 
got her personal best in her 100 breast leg of the relay with a time of 1:18.0. 
meet 
"I didn't think I was going to By LAURIE KELLEHER do my best time," said SportS Writer Cheeseman. "I was trying to 
beat the other girl, so I guess After a tough loss to DePauw that pushed me to go faster." 
University two weeks ago, the 
Sophomore Allison Smith Saint Mary's swimming and 
broke the team record in the 
diving team defeated rival 
200 fly with a time of 2:18.90 
Calvin College in a close and 
and won the event and the 
exciting meet. 
1000 freestyle. Shannon 
The Belles had not defeated 
Kelleher took second in both Calvin in years and it was a 
events. 
pleasant surprise to the coach­
Diver Meghan McHugh took es and team members. 
first in the one meter and the "It was an awesome meet," 
three meter diving events. said senior captain Natalie 
The divers also did well as a 
Cheeseman. "Calvin College team. 
has always been tough. We "I did better than I thought I 
didn't expect to win but the 
would do," said Freshman whole team swam strong. It 
Katie Ryan. "We've been im­feels good to win a close 
proving so much as the season meet." 
goes on." 
While Calvin won all events The Belles next meet is the 
except for the 200 fly, 1000 
Wabash Invitational this 
free, and diving, the Belles weekend. They look to build managed to outweigh Calvin on the success and experiencewith their depth. Many races earned this weekend to com­
for second and third place pete against the multi-team 
were decided by less than one field. 


Freshman Katie Ryan and her fellow divers won one of the Belles' three events en route to a narrow victory over Calvin College. Saint Mary's will compete at the Wabash Invitational this weekend. 
Football Hockey

... 
• Monday Night Football results 
at Air Force, November 18, 8:30 p.m. 
vs. Lake Superior, November 24 & 25, see page 137:00 p.m. EST 
Volleyball
SPORTS 
Big East Championships 

SMC Sports • Bears relocation a possibility 
November 18 & 19
•........
·'.;·, .. 
Basketball at Kalamazoo College, Joyce Center 

November 17 see page 17 Swimming at Wabash College 
Women's Basketball 

Invitational, November 18, I 0:30 a.m. • Bruno-Tyson fight finalized vs. Akron, November 25, 2:00p.m.
GLINCE' 
see page 16 






