
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 68 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 
• fACULTY SENATE 
Faculty reacts to papal encyclical 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Associate N~ws Editor 
A Vatkan statement declaring Pope .John Paul ll's May 1994 "Ordinatio Sacerdotalis," which stated that the Homan Catholic Church does not have the authority to ordain women priests, to bn infallible Wl;l.S issued Nov. 18. 
The Vatican statement says the pope's assertion was made through "ordinary" magisterium; that is, the pope's stance 
is in alignment with views always held by the Church members and Church 
hierarchy, and is not "in itself infallible." 
llad the pope issued his statement "ex cathedr a" as a matter of faith and morals, or through extraordinary magistcrium, it would have been in itself 


infallible, according to LaCugna 
Notre Dame theology Professor Catherine La Cugna. 
La Cugna says she finds the statement unclear in reflecting the pope's think­ing, since he did not sign the declara­tion. She also finds it interesting that there has been enough discussion about the 1994 statement to prompt the issuance of last month's document, especially since the latter measure de­
see POPE/ page 6 

Resolution calls for raise in staff pay 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor JIM KELLY News Writer 
A raise in staff salaries and a written guarantee of continued coverage for fac­ulty retirees. 
These two concerns of the Faculty Senate were expressed in three resolu­tions passed at its meeting last night. 
Two of these resolutions were present­ed to the Senate by the sub-committee on administration. Both dealt with the Sen­ate's concern for internal equity with regard to staff salaries. Both were passed almost unanimously. 
In recent months, the issue of internal equity was the topic of discussion among many campus governing bodies, includ­ing the Senate, which generally agrees that action must be taken to advance toward comparable salaries. Last night's specific resolutions were written in response to University President Father Edward Malloy's request in his address to the Senate on November 8 that it oni­cially offer its opinion on the subject. 
The first of these resolutions was artic­ulated to the Senate by the Administration Sub-Committee Chair Jean Porter, associate professor of theol­ogy. Porter called for the administration to raise the salaries of all its full-time secretarial and clerical staff "to at least 
see SENATE I page 6 
Spreading holiday cheer 

This is the last issue of The Observer for the semester. We will resume publication on January 17, 1996. The Observer wishes you and yours a safe and happy holiday season. 
Decked out in festive attire, the Notre Dame Glee Club sang holiday carols around the women's dorms this week. 
Vatican II sparked Church McGrath praises Latin American role in Council By MELANIE LAFLIN Assisranr News Editor Though the former Arch­bishop of Panama was intro­duced as a "living witness" to the Second Vatican Council on the Church, Marcos McGrath, prefers to call himself "a holy relic to the Council that's sometimes not so holy." In his speech entitled, "The Impact of the Second Vatican Council on the Church and People of Latin America with special reference to the 'Preferential Option for the Poor,"' McGrath discussed his experiences as a bishop mem­ber of the Second Vatican Council from 1962 to 1965 and as an elected member of the Council's Doctrinal Commission yesterday after­noon in Hesburgh Center. According to McGrath, the Second Vatican Council seemed to have had a some­what "abortive birth." The 
U.S. and European protests in 


the sixties were contrary to the Church's own movements, destroying many of the deci­sions of the Council. 
"Latin America was blessed by a more methodical, coordi­nated approach. The Church 
see McGRATH/ page 8 

• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Council to ND officers: Deal with Dome murals 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union last night added their support to the Native American Stu­dents Association at Notre Dame in their crusade to bring university attention to the murals in the Administration Building. 
The Graduate Student Council, the representative body of the GSU, passed a reso­lution during its monthly meet­ing last night that called upon the, "officers and trustees of Notre Dame to address the issue of the murals on the first floor of the Main Administration Building." The resolution passed by an eleven­to-three margin. 
The resolution was written and presented by Quality of Life Committee Chairman, John Davenport. 
"I thought it my duty to bring this resolution to the Council as Quality of Life Chairman. Some Prospective Native American Graduate Students might be put off by the prominence granted these murals by tho University," Davenport said. "As teachers of Ethics, Anthropology and Art, we [graduate students!. have a vested interest In seeing these murals praised for their artistic value and not for their misrep­resented history." 
The resolution was passed as a support to similar resolution passed by the Student Senate. The GSU resolution was edited down from one which addressed a particular solution to the problem, to a more broad statement of support for the NASAND position. "I think that this is something that graduate students can support without buying into the entire political ideology, "said Davenport. 
There were a few, Davenport among them, that believe that the murals ought to be moved to the Snite. Others believe that a simple plaque explaining the problems with misrepresentation of history would sumce. 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
• INsm.E Cm.UMN 



It's all over but the shouting 
August 20,1992 ~·ij;¥;;;iii
In reality, that day was 1203 days ago; but it seems like just yesterday that I was sitting in 352 Cavanaugh, sweating to death, having just met my roommates, and eagerly awaiting the start of my Notre Dame experience. 
I've barely blinked 
since then; yet nine days-------­from now, when I walk out of my Intro to American Music final, it will all be over. 
Notre Dame's insistence on piling up a huge endowment while students pile up huge debts is cheating me out of a semester, but it, too, would go by just as quickly as the rest. 
A couple weeks back, when I began think­ing about what shape this column was going to take, I was leaning towards a mushy, sen­timental-type good bye. While I am sad to be leaving and I will miss all my friends, I also realize that there is much more about gradu­ating to consider. 
In all the time I've spent thinking about how much I'll miss Notre Dame, I almost lost sight of the whole point of coming here: graduating. With all the fun that we have here, it's something that is too easy to take for granted, even by those of us who are pil­ing up huge debts to come here instead of a state school. 
What many of us fail to realize is what an accomplishment getting a degree from Notre Dame really is. Those long, sleepless hours aren't spent studying just to make the week­ends more enjoyable. I can't count the times I thought that the sacrifice wasn't worth it. At least two different times I seriously consid­ered transferring. I thank God, not only for the opportunity to come here, but for giving me the perseverance to stick it out through some tough times and make it to this point. 
I am often asked if I am sad to be leaving. I 
am, but my sadness is lessened by realizing 
that I can't stay here forever. Everyone has 
to leave sometime, and my time is now. As 
my rector so succinctly put it, "When it's time 
to get out of Dodge, then it's time to get out 
of Dodge." 
Also, it's time for me to face the "real 
world." I'm eager to face the challenges that 
await me. If nothing else, hopefully 3 1/2 
years here have given me the maturity and 
responsibility to make the right decisions. 
I think that the best way to deal with the 
emotions of graduating is to look to the 
future and not dwell on the past. In all, I see 
graduating not as something to be sad about, 
but as something to celebrate. I also want to 
extend my congratulations to my fellow class­
mates who are also graduating now. As for 
the rest of the seniors, that last semester will 
fly by and Senior Week will be here before 
you know it. 
One last thing that helped me put college 
into perspective was having a friend die 
seven months before graduating. It hurts to 
see someone work so hard for over three 
years and lose everything so close to the end. 
If there was ever a cause for an honorary 
degree, this should be it. 
In closing, I want to thank my roommates, 
past and present, for putting up with me. I 
don't think I would have made it through 
without you. You'll always be welcome in my 
home, wherever that ends up being. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOA.Y'S StAff  
News  Viewpoint  
Amy Schmidt  Marty Dickinson  
Maureen Hurley  Victoria Pratte  
Sports  Production  
Joe Villinski  Allison Fashek  
Graphics  David "Done" Diaz  
Brian Blank  Lab Tech  
David Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproductio~ rights are reserved. 
\f 
Andy Cabines 
SponsCopyEdiror 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
President seeks support in Bosnia 
WASHINGTON Bosn·lan fOrCeS .• ~~~nian ~
wr.+.;l:."!.k.:.:
With most Americans opposed · ~ 
to sending troops to Bosnia, :Ts?..~;;~~~~~~~~~o~~:~~snian .Bosnian ­President Clinton won important Serbs and government maintain armies. government-backing Tuesday from former t Troops Presidents George Bush and W~if!WJi&i:WAili:WiBJMN1liilf£ffiif!Wil&'Jli 75,000 Gerald Ford for the risky U.S. ~.oooreserves military mission. But even as the ::::11=....=k=s=an=d=a=nn=or=========;.:;;;;._--'-'-"-'-'--'-"-'-­White House welcomed the presi-.:. Tanks • Armored vehicles dential endorsements, another !IilJ'itiifiiJ&fifJNl!li¥MilllWXW1lfliil370 ll'f!WiMW0iilliVW!' 21s key Republican, Senate GOP 11131 Whip Trent Lott, declared his .fit! Multibarrel rocket launchers opposition. He said the deploy-j;dFfi 76 
2 

ment was "a prescription for potential trouble." The White Artillery House readily acknowledged that ~ Field guns 
730
Americans are "very skeptical." tMlW#&Wi:i&ttN•mnmi!ii1MMf#f$.&%ftmtlli@4tlMXrt 
100

To dispel doubts, Clinton said the llilllllllllll 60,000-strong NATO force committed to enforcing the peace in Bosnia will create a climate of security after years of war. "For peace to endure," Clinton said, "the people of Bosnia must receive the tangible benefits of peace."The United States will contribute 20,000 troops to the NATO force. From his home in Houston, Bush said he still has questions about the deployment but argued that the United States' credibility is at stake in going forward. "If the president shifts direction now -or if it is seen that the president does not have the support of the Congress -our standing as leader of the free world and the standing of 
Rockefeller lights tree Bobbit cuts ties with wife 
NEW YORK 

After a bumpy year of bankruptcy and bidding wars, the folks in Rockefeller Center returned to a more traditional pursuit Tuesday evening: lighting their towering Christmas tree for the 63rd time. The evergreen made its debut under high-tech securi­ty prompted by last year's brush with tree terrorism. Two drunks tried to set 


last year's tree on fire, so closed-circuit cameras, a hose and a metal fence were installed, along with extra guards to watch for copycats. The ceremony follows a rocky 1995 for the collection of midtown skyscrapers, starting with a bankruptcy declaration and going through a fierce bidding war for ownership. A group led by David Rockefeller and Goldman, Sachs & Co. eventual­ly outbid the Walt Disney Co. and General Electric for ownership of the historic art-deco office complex. 
Man arrested for barking 
PORTLAND, Maine 

A man who barked at a police dog inside a parked patrol car was detained and ordered to appear in court on a charge of taunting the German shepherd. Johnny Mathis, 20, said he didn't mean to cause trouble when the dog, Zedo, began barking on Saturday and he barked back. "I had finished barking. I had stopped barking, and the police still arrested me," Mathis said. Police said Mathis and a friend started the incident by teasing Zedo with their barking. After a policeman warned them that teasing the dog was illegal, Mathis continued barking, police Sgt. Steve Plympton said. "A dog is a trained animal, a police tool," said Police Chief Michael Chitwood. "God forbid somebody does anything to agitate a dog." According to Cliffwood, "A dog can go through the window. It could cr:eate a: bad situation," he said. Instead of being a taunter, the guy could quickly become a victim." Mathis was taken to jail and held about an hour. He is scheduled to appear in court Dec. 29 on the misdemeanor charge. 


WednfSday, Dec. 6 


The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 6. 
AccuWeather* forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

-rT" ............ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L rn !SSJ [I] 0 . 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES 
..
Allan!& 52 DaiW 53 
,.
Balttmore 45
" """"" 
Boston 47 Los Angeles
a~~~~~~~~ 
" " 
,,,, ...~, ..... ·.:.·.:; --­
Ct>cago J2 16 Mtnneapolts 23
Showers T·storms Rain Fl~,;ies siww Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 17 NewOrteans 
.. 

V1a Associated Press Graph1csNet C 1995 JWQuWealher, 
" 
half the population of prewar Bosnia," the president said. "Many of you have actually witnessed and documented the war's atrocities firsthand, the executions, the ethnic cleansing, the rape of young women and girls as a tool of war, the endless lines of despairing refugees," the presi­dent said. "The United States can now prevent further sill­fering, we can now shine the light of justice in Bosnia, we can now help its people build a future of hope." Clinton also vowed that those guilty of war crimes in Bosnia "must be punished because no peace will long endure without justice." 
MANASSAS, Va. 

John Bobbitt sever.ed his wedding vows with wife Lorena with a signature and a small sketch of a knife. Bobbitt finally signed a property settlement agreement with the woman who cut off his penis with a kitchen knife two years ago, his lawyer said Tuesday. Mrs. Bobbitt, who requested the divorce two years ago, signed the agreement earlier this year. Bobbitt dawdled. At one point, he attempted to regain her affections, but she refused to see him. When Bobbitt finally signed, he also sketched a small knife on the document -it "expresses his sentiments about this whole thing, I guess," lawyer Gregory Murphy said Tuesday. Mrs. Bobbitt said her husband beat her and that he raped her the night in June 1993 that she cut off his penis with a kitchen knife. Bobbitt's penis was reattached. She was acquitted by reason of insanity of malicious wounding charges. Bobbitt was acquitted of the rape charge, but he has since served jail time for beating up another woman. 
Disneyland faces lawsuit 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

A former Mouseketeer who was robbed in a Disneyland parking lot is suing the park, claiming her grandchildren were traumatized when they were taken to an office and allowed to see Disney characters disrobe. Billie Jean Matay, 52, was returning to the car with her daughter and three grandchildren after a day in the park Aug. 17 when a gunman robbed them, police said. The robber wasn't caught. In a lawsuit filed last week in Superior Court, Matay contends park security was lax, guards held her family against their will for questioning, and Disneyland workers exposed her grandchildren "to the reality that the Disney characters were, in fact, make­believe." Matay, who appeared on television's "Mickey Mouse Club" and was a member of the troupe that per­formed at Disneyland's 1955 opening, is seeking unspeci­fied damages for negligence and emotional distress. In 1990, an Idaho couple settled out of court after contend­ing their children were traumatized by seeing Disney characters carrying their costume heads. Disneyland officials refused to comment. 
NATO would be dramatically
diminished," Bush said. "That 
must not happen." -Ford made 
the same argument. "To undercut 
America's course of action at this 
juncture would do enormous dam­
age to U.S. leadership in the eyes 
of the whole world," the former ; president wrote. "We would be ll seen as totally unreliable." Clinton tried to put a human face 
1 
on the war by meeting in the Oval 
1 
Office with three families that fled IBosnia and resettled in the UnitedjStates. "They are the story 1behind the unbelievable numbers \of a quarter-million dead, 2 mil­
1lion people displaced-more than 
(2;1 § a ~ u 
SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
"' 
NewY""' 43 31 
25 0<1ando 58
" 
54 Phoena 16 S4 
.......,. J2 21 
62 St.louis 24
" 


New location serving ND k SMC 
S.R. 23 and Edison (Edison Plaza across from the linebacker) 
The Nevv Most Popular # on Campus. • • 



Thin Is In, 




CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 

CYNTHIA BASKER 
302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 219 258-5482 
Call or write for free informational packet 

I UJ 
0 1ft 
• • • .. • 
~<(

I 
:EN 
0~ 
cc.. 
® 


Try It 
Tod~y! 
Number one sign atop Grace Hall falls victim to high winds yesterday 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 
Nature decided to end the postponed display of the "#1" on top of Grace Hall early on Tuesday morning. 
The large, steel symbol was erected to celebrate the nation­al championship the women's soccer team captured this weekend in Chapel Hill, N.C. Building Services planned to leave it up through the end of the semester. 

However, high speed winds battered the structure Monday night. Derek Mullen, a Flanner Hall junior, and his roomates Mike Monks, Tony Schaefer, and Jason Potampa, watched the large numeral as it, "wavered in the wind. 
"Then, at approximately 1:20 a.m., the winds finally won the 


Cheese bread, 


You'lllove it. 

Final Exam Special 
Large 1 Topping Thin Crust 



$5A9+tax 
No coupon necessary, just ask for finals special! 
Not valid with other offers. 
Hours: Sun t:hru Thurs 't:ill 1 A.M. • Fri t:hru 
Sat: 't:i II 3 A. c: ViSA 
battle, causing the "#1" to fall. 
"We were all shocked that it could withstand the wind, then, next tirrie we checked, it was down," Mullen said. 
The numeral fell flat onto the roof of Grace and not over the side. It did, however, suffer some structural damage. This damage is being repaired and Building Services plans on hav­ing the symbol back in place on Wednesday. 
page 4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 6, 1995 

You're a Business. Major cramming for an English Lit exam. It's late and you're cranky. You keep thinking, "How the heck is the damn 'Raven' gonna help me land a job on Wall Street?'' You get angry. So you call Dad to vent. He helps you understand the importance of it all. Then he yells at you for dialing zero to call collect. Quoth the father, "Nevermore." 
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Recyclin' Irish motivates ND •HPC 
By DEREK BETCHER propriated a truck and a staff collected every week, which is 
Council supports CLC's 
News Writ~r worker to aid in the collection actually a cause of concern for and transportation of recy­Cardinal. With roots in every residence clables. While the University She noted that although vol­

request for dialogue 
hall, Recyclin' Irish works to receives a small amount of unteerism, especially in individ­
educate and motivate Notre Dame to find solutions to envi­ronmental problems.  money for the materials it sells at recycling centers, their aid and cooperation were {)ffered in  ual dormitories, has increased in recent years, the two University workers are far  By BILL CONNOLLY News Writer  
"Hecyclin' Irish provides a means of organization for stu­dents wanting improve the en­vironmental programs at Notre Dame. On a wider scope, as we educate people here, hopefully graduates will spread healthy environmental habits as they  purely in support of one of Re­cyclin' Irish's main goals of re­ducing landfill waste. Recycling, as students now know it, currently exists in nearly every hall of every dor­mitory on campus. Ubiquitous boxes marked 'cans,' 'glass,'  overmatched in the sheer amounts of materials they have to collect and transport to the University's support services compound for sorting. If the University wants to con­tinue to recycle at the current rates (41,000 lbs. of aluminum  The Hall Presidents' Council supported the consideration of a resolution requesting dia­logue on the co-residentiality issue discussed at the Campus Life Council meeting on Monday.  
litter throughout the country," said Karen Cardinal, president of Heeyclin' Irish. Hecyclin' Irish was formed in 1989 through student initiative. Their formation into an official campus organization strength­ened the group's resolve to re­cydn campus-wide and more  and 'paper' resulted from the Hall Council's recent decision to recommend that each dormito­ry have an environmental com­missioner on its hall staff. One of an environmental commissioner's primary duties is to serve as a representative of Recyclin' Irish. Generally, a  cans, 156,000 lbs. of glass, and 226,000 lbs. of newspaper last year) more volunteers will be needed to sort materials as well. Interested students are encouraged to call Sheila Atkinson at 631-5615 to work with the organization.  The resolution will be submitted to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees in the spring of 1996. The HPC heard many parties were considered for presentation of the resolution to the Board.  
importantly signalnd strong stu­dent concern in the issue to the UnivfJrsity. In 1991, convinced of campus interest, the administration ap­ commissioner will enlist anoth­er person from each floor of the building to aid in the collection of recyclables. Over two tons of materials are  Luckily, the future of Recy­clin' Irish has its bright spots as well. Officers are currently planning an activity fair for Earth Week, March 24-30.  The draft of the preliminary resolution included a clause that "urges Patricia O'Hara, the vice president of Student Affairs, to present the option  


WHAT DOES MULTICULTURALISM MEAN TO YOU? 
"God bless Columbus and his murals!" 
-FredKelly 
"I don't hate white people. I have the right to, but I don't" 
-Christiane Likely 
"We must set aside our differences ifthere is to be any future for us, the American people." 
-Josh Gerloff 
Discuss these issues and others at 
Cavanaugh Hall's First Annual 
Forum for Ideas 
A panel discussion in an open, academic environment, 
with panelists:  
Josh Gerloff  Observer Contributor  
Emmanuel Kuada  Peace Studies  
Fred Kelly  Observer Contributor  
Christiane Likely  Observer Columnist  
Candace Pascua  Co-President, NASAND  

... and Moderator Dr. Roland Smith Executive Assistant to the President 


WEDNESDAY, DEC. 6 AT 8:00PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Reception with refreshments to follow 

Sponsored by: Cavanaugh Hall_, The Observer, and Office for Multicultural Student Affairs 
for co-residentiality for upper­classmen in one or more of the new facilities to the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees at their next meet­ing for consideration as an item of action." 
However, some members of the CLC suggested that Jonathan Patrick, student body president, serving as the voice of both the student body and the CLC, present the resolution to the Board. The HPC also re­viewed the CLC's suggestion of having a few CLC members ac­company Patrick in his presen­tation of the resolution. 
In other HPC news, the Coun­cil reviewed the subcommittee for advising systems at Notre Dame's research of the effec­tiveness of departmental advi­sors in the Colleges of Architec­ture, Engineering, Business, Arts and Letters, and Science. 
Discussion on the effective­ness of advising continues next semester, with the possible planning of a professional, campus-wide or college-wide advising system. The purpose of the discussion is to discover if students are able to properly utilize the advisers available to them. 
The HPC also began to plan the dance dates for next semes­ter. On two separate weekends this semester, at least 11 dances were held. In an effort to prevent this from occurring again, the HPC plans to split up the dance dates if too many dorms request to have their dance held on the same day. 
HPC hopes less halls will plan dances on the same days since the absence of football week­ends will free up the amount of available dates. 
Cavanaugh announced that it will hold a Multicultural Forum tonight in the Hesburgh Audito­rium at 8 p.m. The panel will be comprised of nine people, including columnists from the Observer, professors, and rep­resentatives of multicultural groups. 
On Saturday night in LaFor­tune Ballroom, different Christmas movies will be shown. The movies, including the Grinch That Stole Christ­mas, will last throughout the night. 
Please Recycle The Observer 


N_Q,W is the time to guaran­tee the lowest rates and best hotel selection for Spring 
Break '96. After fan. JST, prices will increase and hotel choices will be limit-
Leisure Tours has com­plete packages to South Padre Island, Cancun, and 
Mardi Gras. 
liiii 
For--WL Info. 1-800-838-8203 


page6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
~~--------------------------­

~!F;:~;;;;:i;;i~~·~:i;[:=~::·';~ 
MESSIAH 
The University of Notre Dame Chorale & The University of Notre Dame Orchestra 
Thursday, December 7, 8:00p.m. Friday, December 8, 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
~'l)]K '1~~
$6 General Seating, $3 Students & Seniors~~f(~ Tickets available at LaFortune Info. Desk and at ~~&& 
~~...::':~~~.I~~~~.~.~=~~~~~~:.:.:~~~::..~~~~.r:.:~~~~...~.~·-~~ 

TO\i 
0\ e 
pO\r 
y 0\ 






(UV\ e o~ 
If you(e lrisn you(e i~vitedl 
January1,1996, Noon thru Post Game at the Orange Bowl Stadium (LoT w-4> 



Senate 
continued from page 1 
110 percent of local market average, beginning in the next fiscal year." Currently, the secretarial and clerical staff of Notre Dame are paid at 99 per­cent of the local market aver­age. 
Porter emphasized that this resolution is by no means final; it is merely a starting point for further action to be taken by the Senate. 
"This is an immediate re­sponse to Father Malloy, en­dorsing what we on the [administration] committee see as a minimal goal, a first step. More needs to be done," Porter said. 
The second resolution, also presented by Porter, made two conclusions: 
•that 
the Senate request Di­rector of Human Resources Roger Mullins "to accede to the request of' the secretarial staff of the College of Arts and Let­ters, the Law School, the Col­lege of Science and the College of Engineering and 

•that 
the Senate request Mullins "to ensure that non­faculty representatives on these committees from other colleges and other constituency groups also be chosen by election by the relevant groups them­selves." 


This resolution spawned from the fact that the Towers-Perrin review of Notre Dame salaries currently being conducted by Human Resources will require participation by members of the non-academic staff on vari­ous committees. Secretaries from the College of Arts and Letters, the Law School, the College of Science and the College of Engineering have elected representatives to serve on these committees. And 60 secretaries from Arts and Letters signed a petition to Mullins "requesting to appoint its elected representatives to any 'committees appointed to study the hours, wages, and compensation needs of the employees of Notre Dame' appointed in connection with this process," according to the resolution. 

A third resolution passed by the Senate was presented by Chair of the Benefits Sub­Committee Mario Borelli, asso­ciate professor of mathematics. 
The resolution concluded that the Senate "instruct its Chair to formally request of Mr. Mullins a written confirmation of his verbal agreement." 
The Senate will go on record "as intending to continue pursuing a written guarantee of continued coverage for its retirees which guarantees the Faculty Senate as being unable to obtain from the past three years" as a result of the resolu­tion. 

Pope 
continued from page 1 
women no longer open to debate. 
La Cugna does take some contention with the infallibility statement. 
"The Church has always thought women could not be ordained, but the issue only came up about twenty years ago. Also, other denominations, like the Anglican Church, do ordain women. I think this could cause an ecumenical problem," she said. 
Director of the Center for the Study for American Catholicism 
R. Scott Appleby also takes is­sue with the Holy Father's dec­laration. He claims that very few Church leaders were happy about the statement and that it makes pastoral life in the American Church difficult. 
"The statement seems to deny women the status of being effective Church leaders. It seems diminish women in a ministerial capacity," he stated. 
Appleby maintains that many women who serve the Church in a pastoral capacity do not seek ordination, but many who do have already left the Church. He feels the statement could cause some undecided women to leave as well. 

Assistant Provost Sr. Kathleen Cannon notes that the Vati.can's statement says nothing that has not already been said, and questions as to the impetus for its issuance. 
"There must be something behind the statement," Cannon said. 
Cannon also says there are a number of women who possess the required training for the ministry who have not had the opportunity to hold leadership positions within the Church, and many of these women might become discouraged by the pope's declaration. 
Lyons rector Sr. Kathleen Beatty is concerned with how people will read the Vatican's decree. She says the measure seems reactionary to the con­tinued discussion of the ordina­tion of women. 
"People are called to the min­istry regardless of gender. They can't stop people discussing the issue." 
Beatty notes that debate only seems to have proliferated since the pope declared the is­sue closed. For instance, the Call to Action Conference, which meets annually in Chicago to challenge Church leaders to implement the doc­uments of the Second Vatican Council, has nearly doubled in membership since last year. 
Beatty says she knows of sev­eral women who have earned their Masters' in Divinity and subsequently joined the Episco­pal Church in order to be or­dained. 
La Cugna believes that the moratorium on debate will probably not cause many women to leave the Catholic Church. She also notes that many seeking ordination have become Episcopalians, but the majority have remained with the Catholic Church. However, many see the pope as no longer credible on women's issues. 

Ha~~f 21st Birt~~af, Brettf 
Love, Mom, Dad, Jaime, ;, Eric, Gibson, and Elvi 
Enjoy Live Music, Pep Rally Appearances, The Orange Bowl Memorabilia Tent & Big Screen TV's to watch the NFL Playoff Games & FedEx Orange Bowl Game. 
Admission s15 
Children under 12 admitted free with each adult 
MIAMI.

Do~· t for~et to bri~~ your su~ t~ Iotio~. 'PAU(r IT ORANct-
BUY YOUR TICKETS NOW. CALL 305-358-5885 BtriTICKE~ NOWTHROUGH 
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 7 
NATO endorses peace plan in war torn Bosnia 



SMC embarks on e-mail project 
By LAURA SMITH assignments one or two times over e-mail." News Writer each week. One student an­"Some students take a while swers the assigned questions to think of comments," 
Nineteen Saint Mary's fresh­and the other students respond. Incandela said. "E-mail gives mAn in the Religious Studies They can agree or disagree them a chance to think, formu­and Philosophy tandem use e­with one another and debate late comments, and interact mail to complete daily as­over e-mail. with other students." signments and to conduct dis­Professor Incandela reads all t:ussions outside of class this the responses before the fol­According to Incandela, this semester. lowing class, allowing for more semester's tandem students 
The program, started by productive use of class time. were guinea pigs for the pro­Heligious Studies Profflssor Joe "It's a fun way to do as­gram. "They are really helpful lneandela. is the first of its kind signments," lncandela said. in letting me know what works at Saint Mary's College. "It's different and enjoyable." and what doesn't, " he said. 
Professor lneandela ehose to "I've learned a lot about how to introduee e-mail into a fresh­Professor Jncandela's stu­use e-mail for classes. I would man eourse becaustl he wanted dents agree. According to like to continue to use it and to promote a sense of commu­Maureen Gill, "The e-mail as­improve." nity for students who are away signments are very beneficial. With the current system from home for the first time. We could write questions about available at Saint Mary's, In­"My sense is that using e-mail the readings and get responses candela said, he will continue helped the students get to know from other students and the to use e-mail in his freshman eaeh other well," he said. professors." writing class. But he would not 
The tandem is a writing pro­Another benefit of e-mail dis­use it in a class of 25 or 30 peo­ficieney course. Aecording to cussions is that every student ple. lncandela, this makes it a per­can participate equally over e­He hopes that down the line 
feet course for using e-mail. mail. "In class discussions more software will be available "In a writing class. it is natural some students are quiet and that will make the use of e-mail to have people writing each others are aggressive," said easier in a larger class. other," he said, "rather than Gwynn Murray-Nolan, a stu­"This is the future of edu­just verbally discussing issues." dent in the tandem. "Everyone cation, " Incandela said. "The 
The students have e-mail gets a fair share of discussion advantages are wonderful." 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers, and editors. Join the Observer staff. 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS 
NATO's foreign and defense ministers, acting with "unity of purpose,"' endorsed a plan to­day to enforce peace in Bosnia with 60,000 troops engaged in a hazardous and historic mis­sion. 
In their first joint meeting in 16 years, the ministers said the plan attests to NATO's capacity to fulfill a new mission of crisis management and peacekeep­ing. 
Russia's participation -NATO's former adversary will contribute 1,500 to 2,000 troops -was singled out as "especially significant as a con­crete example of our evolving relationship." 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher called the peace mission "a coalition of power and principle'" and said it would help ensure another half-century of life for an al­liance formed to contain a Soviet Union that no longer ex­ists. 
Having cast about since the 1991 dissolution for a reason to keep its generals and bureau­crats busy, NATO has found it in the rubble of ethnically torn Bosnia-Herzegovina. The largest deployment in NATO's history began Monday with the arrival in Sarajevo of a scatter­ing of French, British, Belgian and U.S. troops. 

"It is a dangerous mission," said Brig. Gen. Stan Cherrie, the first U.S. general to reach the dreary front-line town of Kiseljak, 13 miles northwest of the Bosnian capital. 
The troops beginning to pour into Bosnia will run the risk of treacherous weather, snipers, thousands of land mines and potentially hostile militias. 
But Christopher emphasized the "noble," unique and his­toric aspects of the mission. "Most immediately, it means that the killing in Bosnia can stop for good," he said. "It means that the children of a European country will be able to walk to school and play in the streets without having to fear a sniper's bullet or a falling mortar shell." 
All the NATO allies will 

participate in the operation, as well as 14 other countries: Austria, the Czech republic, Estonia, Finland, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden and Ukraine, acting NATO secretary-general Sergio Balanzino said. 
Three other countries, Bangladesh, Egypt and Malaysia, are being considered, the NATO official said at a news conference. 
France gave NATO unity a boost by ending a 29-year boy­cott of the alliance's military wing. Foreign Minister Herve de Charette said French gen­erals and defense ministers would participate more fully in decisionmaking meetings. 
French Defense Minister Charles Millon attended the joint session of NATO foreign and defense ministers. With 10,000 French troops due for deployment in the former Yugoslav republic the some­times erratic ally is taking on a leading role in peace enforce­mPnt 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Advent Penance Service 
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
10:00 p.m. 


Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! OfficWL Wholesale Price list! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Fru 32-Page Color Catalog 

Toll-Free (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 /nlemel Catalog at hllp: llwww.stqHck.coml•apeck 


(jeate in in~­
a crean heart 



0 or£ 


i•
I 

99 
...­
Free Parties & Free Food!! 
'1-800-SURF·s UP 
STUDENT EXPRESS, INC. 



Father Robert Moss, C.S.C., Preacher

0MPU5 

MINISTRY Opportunity for individual confession following the service. 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
McGrath 
continued from page 1 
had a positive impact on the Latin American nations. The decisions of the Council can be lived out in the modern world," said McGrath. 
Before the Council, McGrath feels there was little originality in the Church. "As newer cur­rents of spirituality and pas­toral action began to arise, there was generated an intense interest in social justice and, more specifically, in the poor. They were to become the immediate concern of what would subsequently be called the theology of liberation which would take on its own shape and duration in Latin America," said McGrath. 
Many theologians consider Vatican II the first truly world council, because it represented every area of the world through the bishops as well as covered many "modern world" topics. 
"The Council established a norm for all future councils. The poor, during and after the Council, became more and more a central, driving con­cern: for the Pope, for the Bishops, for the Church-in a very urgent way in Latin America. Economic and political issues would largely condition the reception and putting into effect of the Council the world over," com­mented McGrath. 
The Council concluded after numerous discussions on peace, avoiding war, and building an international com­munity. "The Pope laid out a bold pastoral plan for the Church of our continent. He placed urgency upon our "solemn commitment" to social justice for all, with particular attention to the most poor and needy, especially in view of the sharp and profound contrasts existing in Latin America," said McGrath. 

"There is without a doubt, thanks to the Council, an awakening in Latin America, in its Church. The social condi­tion there is, if possible, even more desperate now than at the close of the Council: in human and economic terms, due to the hardly encouraging signs of material and social betterment, in the majority of our nations," said McGrath. 
Appeal.S1teatd .. .. t. Paul Tltomasiion•s appeal ofhis dis­
. . .. .. .~sal fro~nthe Navy, the frrst 

,..RICHMOND, va}W challenge ofthe policy to reach .·•Whe ClintoD.· administration's. >'1:1, federal4ppeals court .•...... ri'don't .~sk. qon't tell" policy on''\:·x· Some Jud!fes questione~ gays inthe armed forces came >/whether Thomas~on's state~ under .a feder~ appeals court's ment, ~.·ram gay,'.j!to his com~ scrutiny Tuesday, with some mander should ha\'e bee~'lt~ufw judges musing Whether they. fi:cient to end his career: should interfer~.yvith military,,,1 ,yt'What,;. harm has .Mr, rul¢:s.. ,0 . ··· ''·· . . ··. ";';Tl10masson done to the miliw .;,,,.;All13 fttlHimejudges of the· 'tary?'~ Judge K.K Hall asked 
4th... lJ.S. Circuit Court",of. ':P(;lPUty §olicitl')r!;Jeneral Ed 
~•1-5 ~ork weekJ:I'r!'e~,~ 
•AIL:·:maj9rs (i."Ot'lf3 it.:l ere~ 
~;:;"~;:~' ~df·: ··~=>::·:::. 
•Looks::i;gre~,:t ~,,~· yg~~r ~~su,!tle ·· .......... :~,!-S~holarship opp~.rtut:1ities 
..-:::~Ah,:::,.. .,$~~::~,~k,. ,.~,,,fo\B:::::. ~:'iw?~%::r. .. ·)y=·==~r,,., ..,,::.1~·===·, =·=··. 

•Interview now,·-6tart after finals 
•Will,s:cure sJ''rn mer position 
Now accepting application~: 
Kneedler, who defended the policy. Kneedler said the military 

bas the right to''discharge an .;. openly homosexual member to ···protect unit cohesion. 
''It is not prejudice. It is pru­..,.denq~," he said. 
········ Kneedler said Thomasson's statement could be used as evi­dence that he was likely to enw gage in homosexual conduct, which is grounds for dismissal from the military. 
·• 

Indy (:317) 767-5416 • Ft. Wayne (219) 471 6113 • Evansville (:317) 428-6675 Merrillville (219) 769-2352 • Muncie (317) 289-7:345 • South Bend (219) 282-2357 
When you go on Christmas break criminals start their holiday shopping at your place 
If you are an off-campus student sign up for the Home Watch program 
To find out more about the Home Watch program and/or sign up please call the Police Department which is responsible for your 
off-campus residence South Bend Police 235-9201 St. Joe County Police 235-9611 

This program is a free service offered by local area police departments and sponsored by Notre Dame Security/Police Department 
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Whitewater witness backs out 
By PETE YOST 
Associa.r~ Press 
WASHINGTON 

A former White I louse lawyer, act­ing at Hillary Hod ham Clinton's instructions, looked into t h e 


Whitewater Clinton real estate venture as Bill Clinton was con­sidering a run for president, he testified Tuesday. 
Appearing before the Senate Whitewater Committee, William Kennedy acknowl­edged examining Whitewater problems for Mrs. Clinton in 1991. 
But Kennedy rebuffed Hepublican attempts to find out about a Nov. 5, 1993 meeting on Whitewater with the Clintons' personal attorneys. 
Kennedy said he is being di-
Happy 21st Birthday to 


iz Kukoy 

From your Family and Friends 
love you lotsI 

rected to remain silent about the two-hour meeting by the Clintons' lawyer, David Kendall, and the White House. 
Senate Republicans sharply disputed Kennedy's position, saying a claim of attorney­client privilege is invalidated by the fact that four presidential aides attended the meeting and that a White House spokesman has commented to reporters on two narrow aspects of the meeting. 
Lawyers for the White House, the Clintons and the Senate committee are discussing the matter. 
The committee is investigat­ing what use White House aides made of information which they busily gathered on the growing problem or Whitewater in the summer and early fall of 1993. 
Committee lawyer Michael Chertoff said the Nov. 5, 1993 meeting could be the culmina­tion of those information-gath­ering efforts. 
"We want to know what use they made of the information," said Chertoff. 
In questioning Kennedy, Chertoff produced a May 31, 1991 memo to Kennedy from a paralegal at the Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, Ark., where Kennedy and Mrs. Clinton were partners. 
The memo stated that Whitewater real estate agent Chris Wade had taken over the troublesome loan taken out by the Clintons 12 years earlier on the Whitewater land venture in northern Arkansas. 
Kennedy testified that he was asked by Mrs. Clinton "to do some .. .investigation" of Whitewater. 
The investigation generated a two-page memo by the parale­gal spelling out the financial difficulties that Wade was hav­ing in paying off the loan's $13,000 balance. 
Wade had taken over part of the Whitewater property from the Clintons and their partners, Jar,nes and Susan McDougal. The loan was eventually paid off, but Kennedy says he does­n't know how. 
Kennedy said he intended to impart knowledge of his private Whitewater work for Mrs. Clinton at the Nov. 5, 1993 meeting where the Clintons' miw Whitewater lawyer, David Kendall, was to be briefed. 
In a related matter, Kennedy received telephone calls three months earlier from a Little Rock lawyer who told him that municipal judge David Hale could make Whitewater-related allegations against President Clinton. 



orlds 

Get the Right Start 


IBM PCs Offer the Perfect Combination of Price, Conwnience ami Performanet• 
-::--:-:.-=.= 
.::._.=...:.:7 :.® 

ABC announces new 24-hour news service 
BySCOIT WILLIAMS Auodated Press 
NEW YORK 
ABC is joining the growing list of challengers to CNN. hoping the help of its local af. Ciliates will give it a selling point that sets it apart from all-news ventures planned by NBC and Rupert Murdoch. 
The network said Tuesday it will launch a 24-hour, all­news. channel in early 1997. providing an alternative ­rather than a competitor -to the pioneer in the field, CNN. 
"We're going to try to take {24-hour news) to a different level," ABC News president Roane Arledge said at a news conference with Robert lger, president of Capital Cities-ABC Inc. 
Iger declined to discuss the cost of the new venture. 
CNN, the pioneer in round­the-clock television news, reacted calrtlly. 
''While we respect our col­leagues at ABC, we are confi· dent that our record of excel­lence, the ongoing im· provements to our existing services and an exciting array of new services will enable us to compete successfully with their newly announced ser· vice!' spokesman Steve Haworth said. "The competi· tion with them in 24·hour news. will ()nly make us bet­terY.A!' 
ABC's announcement came less than a week after Murdoch, whose British Sky Broadcasting has a 24-hour news channel, said he planned a "really objective news chan· nel" to compete with CNN. 

Turner said last week that he would squash Murdoch ''like a bug." 
"The difference in us and Rupert Murdoch is that we have a news organization,'' Arledge said. "He's got to de· velop a domestic news organi­zation before he can start thinking of cable." 
That advantage is shared by NBC, whose plan, announced in January, for a 24-hour, all· news channel "is still very much on track," said NBC spokeswoman Beth Comstock. 
ABC already is a major c~ble programmer, with its ESPN, Lifetime and A&E net· works. but NBC also has established significant cable ventures, including its sub­sidiary CNBC and America's Talking networks. 
NBC News is already an international player with the NBC Super Channel, primarily on cable, in 65 million homes in 44 countries from Iceland to Saudi Arabia. 
ABC's service at first will not extend to overseas markets. "We will not really explore international opportunities until the domestic service is up and running and being suc­cessful," Iger said. 
Iger said ABC News' resources would be combined with those of ABC-owned Worldwide Television News, an international news syndicator. and at the same time provide strong local news through its affiliates. 
~@~~®®~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~~ ®I~~~~~ 
Q 
~@ffi ~~~~a 
J~@~ ~~@ ~~C~~a ~W~~a 
~~ey ~~t~ 

Grab a Cup of Coffee from South Bend's Newest Oasis toW arm Up before or after the Game! 
Monday . Friday 7:00a.m. · Midnight
Edison Plaza -1631 Edison Rd. 
Saturday 9:00a.m.-Midnight 
(across from the Linebacker) 

Now Open Sunday !Oa.m.-!Op.m.•(219) 273-6216 
*limited menu on Sunda OnI ! 

..... page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, December 6 , 1995 
GOP hopefuls battle over which states vote first 
By JOHN KING not to campaign in Louisiana Associated Press and Delaware. All the major candidates ex­WASHINGTON cept Gramm have signed Iowa's 
For now, the biggest fight in pledge. Most, including Dole, the race for the Republican have also pledged not to com­presidential nomination isn't pete for Delaware's 12 del­over the budget or Bosnia but a egates. more parochial question that is Because of that, the Gramm nonetheless reshaping cam­campaign believes it can .win all paign strategy: Who goes first? 33 delegates at stake in 
Most Republican candidates Louisiana and Delaware, an are siding with Iowa and New early cushion even if Dole wins Hampshire, the traditional Iowa and New Hampshire. In leadoff states in the nominating the Gramm campaign's view, contest. But Texas Sen. Phil most other candidates will al­Gramm vows to campaign ag­ready be out of money or in gressively in the states that are deep trouble by this point ­mounting a challenge, gambling the last week of February ­that he can build an early dele­leaving only Gramm in a posi­gate lead and emerge as the top tion to compete with Dole in the challenger to GOP front-runner 30 contests crowded into the Bob Dole. next month. 
The fight involves two sepa­"We think it is a very good rate calendar squabbles: calendar for Gramm," his top Louisiana's bid to jump ahead strategist, Charlie Black, said of Iowa and hold the first presi­Tuesday. dential caucuses on Feb. 6; and The decision has subjected Delaware's plan to ignore the Gramm to intense criticism in traditional one-week pause af­Iowa and New Hampshire, ter New Hampshire's Feb. 20 where local Republicans have primary and hold its vote four predicted his candidacy would days later. be severely damaged. 
In both Iowa and New Hamp­"He will pay a big price if he shire, angry state officials have tries to circumvent Iowa in this demanded that the Republican matter," said Iowa GOP Gov. presidential candidates pledge Terry Branstad, a Dole sup-
Spring '96 Medical School Tours University of Michigan: 
Saturday, Jan. 20, 1996 -$15 
Northwestern University: 
Friday, Feb. 9, 1996-$10 
Sign-up and pre-pay in 101 O'Shaughnessy by Friday, Dec. 15, 1995 -~ ffl~O&f::_i: 
"The Beet Tan 
Under The Sun" 
•
Beds, Booths &: Euros 

•
Open 7Days AWeek 


•
Convenient Hours 

•
Student Discounts 


~~ 
, 256-9656 
.....,..~ 
HNUC. 

porter. steal something they cherish: weakness by catering to Iowa "The people of New Hamp­The first-in-the-nation pri­and New Hampshire. shire will vote for someone they mary?" "I think somebody who getsrespect," said New Hampshire Gramm was defiant, however, so caught up in pandering that 
Gov. Steve Merrill, also a Dole as he filed candidacy papers they can't stand up to pressurebacker. "And how can they re­Tuesday in New Hampshire, like this probably ought not to spect someone who tried to suggesting rivals were showing be president," Gramm said. 

a 


Put those 
books away and head on over to Lafortune Ballroom for a... 


Christmas Dance! 
p 
0 
~ 

(J Cost: $1 for Flip Side members $2 for non-members 
When: Friday, December 8 


Time: 10 pm -1:30 am ~.c;"(~ 
~ 

Where: Lafortune Ballroom "'(o~ 
-·­
'1.~ 

Breaking Away for the Holidays? 
Ride 

II~ITt=n I I ~A()
=== ~= = = = ~ : == "= :~ = 
~· r ..... W .""
.... -= 

Your convenient connection to the Chicago Airports United Limo leaves campus ten times daily for O'Hare and Midway Airports. Board at the Bus Shelter on Notre Dame Avenue next to the Morris Inn. 
Leave Campus Notre Dame Bus Shelter  Arrive O'Hare Airport Upper Level All Airlines  Arrive O'Hare Airport International Terminal Terminal5 Upper Level  Arrive Mi way Airport All Airlines Via Connection to Tri State Coach  
4:00AM 6:00AM  5:55AM 7:55AM  6:10AM 8:10AM  6:10AM 8:10AM  
8:00AM 9:00AM 10:00AM  9:55AM 10:55 AM 11:55AM  10:10 AM 11:10AM 12:10PM  10:10 AM ll:lOAM 12:10 PM  
12:00AM 1:00PM 2:00PM  1:55PM 2:55PM 3:55PM  2:10PM 3:10PM 4:10PM  2:10PM 3:10PM 4:10PM  
4:00PM 6:00PM  5:55PM 7:55PM  6:10PM 8:10PM  6:10PM 8:10PM  

Fares to Midway or O'Hare from Notre Dome: $28 One Way I $52 Round Trip Tickets con be purchased from our driver or through your travel agent. For further information coll254-5000 
Your Airport Connection •All Day, Every Day 
--~------~----~--.-----------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------~--, 
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
Citadel to process women's applications 
By BRUCE SMITH 
Associated Press 
CIIAHI.ESTON, S.C. 

The Citadel is ready to start processing applications from women who want to join its all­male corps of cadets, according to a plan filed in federal court Tuesday. 
The college would inform women who meet all other standards that they are eligible to enroll if the courts order women into the corps. AceP.pted applieations would be kllpt on file until the lllgal ques­tion is resolved. 
Women n~jeeted for reasons other than their gender will be informed of those reasons, and the school will inform the Justice Dllpartme'nt of its action on individual applications. 
There are four applications from women on· file at The Citadel, college spokeswoman Judith Fluck said. One is from Nancy Mellette, who has taken Shannon Faulkner's place in the lawsuit challenging the con­stitutionality of the all-male corps. They have not been pro­cessed. 
U.S. District Judge C. Weston Houck told the school last week to file the proposal and sched­uled a hearing on it for Thursday. 
The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals has ruled the cadet corps at both The Citadel and Virginia Military Institute, the country's only two all-male, state-supported military col­leges, can keep their single-sex programs if comparable lead­ership programs are estab­lished for women. 
Faulkner began the battle to open up The Citadel's corps to women when she deleted ref­erences to her sex from her high school transcripts. 
The Observer • NEWS 
~
~ 
.
a~IC\V\ 
f-lappy 21 5 t Bi~thday oV\ Decembe~ 20th 



Children's Christmas Partu Saturday, December 9 
7:30 to 9:30 PM 
The Huddle (LaFortune Student Center) 
All Univcrsitu affiliated families arc invited 
to this special children's cvmt to iocludc: 
DAVE RUDOLJ'S CHILDREN'S CONCERT 7:30PM Refreshments & Door Prizes with special guest SANTA! 
Sponsored " bU Student Activities, 10C Huddle & the Graduate Student Union 
Love, The Family & 
. . '""·.····· ····.·
·~ 
Fr<iends at )\}D & 3C[;f.• 

···.....• >'.' ··'
~·· 
St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet Granger, Indiana 
277-3143 
page 11 

CELEBRATE A FRIENDS Bl RTH DAY WITH A SPECIAL OBSERVER AD 
Featuring: 
Hickory Smoked Ribs Hickory Smoked Chicken Fried Chicken Tender Seafood Grilled Steaks Deliciously Thick Pizza 
FAMILY STYLE SPECIAL All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner $7.49 for groups of 10 or more 
PERFECT  FOR  SECTION DINNERS!  
Located  on  State Rd.  23  and Bittersweet  
Closed Monday  

page 12 

The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
Israel ends mourning period for slain Rabin 
By DAN PERRY cide bomb that day. On other 
Asscciated Press occasions hi .. A.pril and 
September,. Amjj-failed to get. TEL AVIV close enough to Rabin, it said. 
Israeli leaders said a last On Nov. 4, Amir told Hagai 
goodbye to the slain Yitzhak he would try to shoot Rabin at Rabin Tuesday, the same day a peace rally in Tel Aviv, the 
his confessed assassin was charges said. formally charged · with Hagai tried to dissuade him. 
murdering the warrior­arguing the heavy security at turned·peacemaker. the rally would make escape 
Fighting back tears, Prime difficult and suggesting they 
Minister Shimon Peres ad­instead wait and acquire tele­
dressed his slain partner at a scopic snip!!l~ rifles, the 
Jerusalem graveside service charges said. · · 
marking the end of the 30-day But Yigal Amir went ahead 
mourning period observed by with his plan. He loaded his 
Jews. Beretta with six regular bul· 
"You were murdered lets and six hollow-point bul­
because you were right," lets that had been given to him 
Peres said. "The bullets that by Hagai. according to the 
pierced your chest did not cut indictment. 
down the fruits of your labor Yigal Amir left his home in 
-they only revealed the1ll." the Tel Av}v subutb of 
"The dawn of peace has Herzliya·at 7:45p.m. and took 
broken." a bus to the rally.. He removed 
As he finished his speech, his skullcap to avoid standing 
Peres, who succeeded Rabin out among the mostly secular 
after the Nov. 4 killing, crowd and waited near 
stopped and took off his glass­Rabin's car. 
es. Looking as ifbe might cry, 

he told Rabin's widow, Leah: Rabin walked off the stage 
"Today, almost all the people at 9:45 p.m. and approached 
are with the Rabin family." his car, As a .Q odyguard 
· · opened its dool' ~n,~. ,Jtahin was 
At Tel Aviv's distrlei·;(.)ti:rt, about to step bi.. ~r walked 
gunman Yigal Amir was. f()r· up and shot hhn twice from 
mally charged with murder. close range. causing fatal 
and his brother Hagai and wounds. the charges said. 
friend Dror Adani with The Jerusalem ceremony 
conspiracy. They are to be capped a wrenching month of 
brought to court Wednesday bereavement and soul-search­
to bear the charges. ing since the killing, in which 
The three were also charged Israelis have searched for 
with conspiracy to attack ways to heal the rift between 
Palestinians in the West Bank religious and secular Jews, 
and face additional weapons }and supporters and opponents 
charges. ·· of the peace process; 
The indictment said Amir, a More than a hundred sol­
25-year-old devoutly religious diers in ponchos and full bat­
law student, decided sometime· tie gear stood guard by 
after the September 1993 Rabin's grave at the Mount 
lsrael-PLO peace agreement to Herzl Cemetery, reflecting the 
kill Rabin to prevent its imple-tight security around officials 
mentation. He recruited Hagai since the assassination, 
Amir and Adani to help him, it About 400 people,. including 
said. family me~ers; S~inefrnin-The trio considered blowing isters, opp ttoD'''leaders. Up Rabin's car or firing an army officer ....•. · .... · omats, antitank rocket into his apart· attended the memorial service ment, the charge sheet said. In on a cold, wet afternoon. · ·the end, Yigal Amir decided to Lt. Gen. Amnon Shahak, 
kill Rabin with his 9mm Israel's armed forces chiefof 
Beretta pistol. staff, spo}(e of the "huge 
On Jan. 22. Amir waited for · ~mpty space'! lef~ by Rabin's 
Rabin at the Yad Vashem death. 
Holocaust MemorJ4(.:;Jp Rabin W{J.S 

Jerusalem, but the pr~fuft)r fornni9b;,q •.. 
canceled his appearance at'te~wc ing as ~f1ll 
Muslim militants set off a sui• ' ' staff and de 
NORTH VILLAGE A.LANDING 
FRIDAY EVENING 
4:30 pm-8:00 pm 
8:00 pm-ll:OOpm Music & Dancing! 
THE GRAND BUFFET 
•Over 20 Entrees 

•Hot 
Vegetables 


•New 
Polish Items Added 

•
Array of mouthwatering desserts 


Music & Dancing put on by Ned Swanson of ProShow 
NO COVER CHARGE! 
SUNDAY MORNING 
10:00 am -2:00 pm 
PRIME RIB BRUNCH 
•Prime 
Rib 

•Peel-n-Eat 
Shrimp 

•All 
breakfast items 


•
Array of mouthwatering desserts 


Located at the North Village Mall 52565 U.S. 31/33 North : South Bend, IN 46637 (219) 272·8180 

France faces social changes 
By CHRISTOPHER BURNS 
Associated Press 
PARIS 
Around wood fires on the picket lines, in strikebound uni­versities and in streets choked with commuters without public transit, France is struggling with its past and future. 
It's a far cry from the stu­dent-worker rebellion of May 1968 when the issues were mostly ideological. Now, the battle is for jobs, money for higher education and to retain France's generous social bene­fits. 
Powerful unions that have ground much of the nation to a halt for nearly two weeks are in a war of attrition with the con­servative government of Premier Alain Juppe. 
While they represent less than 10 percent of the work force, the unions are strong in transportation, communication and other key industries in the bloated state sector. 
At stake is France's -and Europe's-effort to establish a single currency by 1999 that could help turn the European Union into an economic super­power. Paris needs to slash a $64 billion budget deficit to meet the requirements, and a Juppe retreat would likely cause havoc in the financial markets. 
"There's a moment when a great country like France can't keep putting off reform," Labor Minister Jacques Barrot told a live talk show on French televi­sion. 
"France is at a crossroads. The golden age for state work­ers is over," added Ezra Suleiman, professor of interna­tional studies at Princeton. "A lot of people will have to give up their privileges, and I think there will be a lot of tension in the short-run." 
With cameras trained on state workers in several French towns, a postal worker in Strasbourg shot back: "They say we're privileged. But we work around the clock. We don't know what's going to happen to us, to our status, our retirement, and our future is blocked." 

"What have they possibly got to complain about?" Jean­Marie Golette, a bookkeeper for a small Paris company, mut­tered as he rode a government­leased bus aimed at breaking the strike. "These people have got everything -decent pay and the best benefits in the world." 
If the unions lose the battle, Juppe will proceed with tough reform that would make state employees work 40 years in­stead of 37 1/2 years before re­tirement and put others out of a job as state companies are downsized. In the short-run at least, it could add to the 11.5 percent unemployment rate. 
The bitterness runs deep among those targeted for the belt-tightening, especially after conservative President Jacques Chirac rode to victory in May with the sign of an apple and, the motto "France for all." 
"Chirac promised us apples. 
We got the cores," read one striker's sign. 
The government argues a lower deficit will lower interest rates and stimulate the econ­omy. a supply-side doctrine leftist unions don't buy. And the argument is moot for many middle-age workers. 
Juppe also is in a struggle with students and university presidents demanding more funding and teachers for a drastically crowded educational system. Contrasting with 1968. the students are demanding jobs, not revolution. 
A wild card in the standoff is whether the private sector joins in the strike, as they did in 1968. Or the two sides could reach a face-saving agreement that could slow the pace of re­form. 
"The government can see it through if the private sector doesn't follow," said Jean­Dominique Lafay, an economics professor at the Sorbonne. "If they follow. the government will give in." 
Despite large student and union demonstrations. political observers don't believe the con­flict will be settled in the streets as in the past. 

FINALLY! 
Theressa Hennessey turns 21 on December 9. 

.HAPPY BIRTHD 
wve, 

Mom and Dad, Patrick, Kieran (ND '99), and Billy 
cYV"~ 

Saturday, December 9, 1995 LaFortune Ballroom 
8:00PM  A  YEAR  WITHOUT A  SANTA  
CLAUS  
9:00PM  FROSTY THE SNOWMAN  

9:30PM 'THE GRINCH WHO STOLE CHRISTMAS I 0:00PM RUDOLPH THE RED-NOSED REINDEER I :OOPM A CHRISTMAS STORY 
;;~~;;~~s.t''''''''
Free Christmas cooldes, popcorn and soda will be served. 









VIEWPOINT 

Wednesday, December 6, 1995 page 13 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRt: DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's Oi'FICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 

John Lucas Momaging Editor Business Manager Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
New. Editor......... . ... David Tyler Advertising Manager ..........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ..................... .]en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norhut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Mos~r Act:em Editor.. .. ............. Krisra Nannrry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
!'he Obsorver i' the indepcmknt newspaper published by the studmts of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nut necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either irutitutiun. Thc news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torial!. represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-C:hicf, Managing Editor, News Edicor, Viewpoint Ediwr, Accent Editor, Phoco Editor, Sports Ediwr, and Saint Mary's Editor. CommcmariC'~. IC'uer~ and Inside Columns prC"senr the vieWs of the authors, and not necessarily those of The <>hserver. ViC"wpoint space is available mall members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity ami to .11l reader!.. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
blitor·in-< :hief 63 I -4 'i42 llusiness Office 631-5313 Man•ging Fdiror/Viewpoint 63 I -4541 Advertising 63 I-6900/8840 Spurts 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Ncw!t/Phow 63I-'i323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Jl01y Ediwr/Produninn 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.I@nd.edu ( iener01l Information 63 I -7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
TiananmenI[ 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Give pep rallies back to students 
Dear Editor: 
!laving spent the weekend on campus for thll Boston College game and reading some of the 'Letters to the Editor' which were printed in The Observer on Friday, Oct. 27. I would like to add these com­ments. 
I agree with the other letters in that Notre Dame stadium has definitely changed in the last ten years. The crowd response during the Boston College game was lwtter than the absolute embarrass­ment of the crowd response at thll Northwestern game, which was the other game that I attlmded this year. 
My focus in this letter are the pep rallies. Perhaps many other people have written to the Observnr regarding thll pep rallies, hut I would like to add my viewpoint. I suspect that tlwre is a club or committee made up of students who arc in charge of organizing the pep rallies. I hope this let­ter gets forwarded to them. 
The pep rallies, now, strike me as a llollywood production more than a true pep rally. Maybe this is just where our sodety is going nowadays. I notice when I attend my children's sporting events at the high school, that the baskHtball cheerlead­
•~rs go out on the floor and do routines while peoplll in the audience talk. 
When I was in high school (30 years ago), we cheered along with the cheer­leaders and tried to drown out the cheers from tlw other school's students. !guess if tlw kids nowadays aren't cheering at their high school games, we can't expect them to chller at college games or pep rallies ei­ther. 
What is this nonsense with whole sec­tions of the ACC being roped off so that 'dignitaries' can have a special place to sit? I certainly have no problem with such prderential seating and respect being given to the families of our football team 
nwmb•~rs. 
But I think some of the rHserved seating are for people who just contribute a lot to tlw University. This is crazy. Can't we live without somn of tlwse dollars? Can't the 'high roll•~rs', who eomn in there in the fur coats, sit up at the back like everybody else has to? 
• 
Our pep rallies were in the old field­house. It was hot, sweaty, and for an all male student body, an invigorating ex­perience. I certainly don't expect that the student body of the 1990s would find that to be a pleasurable experience at all. What parents did attend the pep rallies, came in at the back, and were kept away from the pushing and crowding that the student body did, but 1 will never forget the loud din that went through the field­house when the alma mater was sung. 
I suspect that half the people attending the pep rallies at ACC are not student body graduates and don't even know the words to the alma mater. When I sing it, I notice I'm the only one in two or three rows around me whose lips are moving during the singing of our alma mater. 
Are students even coming to the pep ral­lies? I didn't know if they were mixed in with the large crowd that came in to at­tend the rally, or is there specific seating designated for the students? If there is, it's only seating at the very top, which happened to be left over at around 6:45, when, I believe, some of the students start­ed to file in. 
Let's turn the pep rallies back to the stu­dllnts. Reserve the bast seating for the students. Encourage the students to come. Get the students back in there. Make the pep rally for them, not glitzy, Hollywood, rotating mirrored-ball-on-the-ceiling effect like we are running some type of a circus. 
Get the students in there, and then if there is room for some alumni and other ticket holders, then fine, let them come in, but let's get the students in there. 
Maybe I'm just an old graduate who can't get with the modern trends. But I think the pep rally is being turned into a media event, presented for the benefit of subway alumni and rich contributors ­who do little more than politely applaud, despite the excellent work If the Leprechaun, cheerleaders, and others who try to ship this crowd into some excite­ment. 
Thank you for listening to my views. 
JONATHAN TOCKS, M.D. Class of'69 

Personal views offolk music do notjustify remarks 
D¢ar Editor: 

In a community which prides Itself on the depth of participation Jn its reli· gious life, I find the flippant dismissal of the contributions of' specific choirs here at Notre Dame expressed by Benjamin Evans in the November issue of Rlght Reason ort'ensive to the utmost degree. 
Not oniy does his article display complete disregard for musical tastes other than his own, (I personally think the music itself [the music sung by the Notre Dame. Folk Choir] is of low quality, but I don't deny the reader's right to have bad taste); be also belittles the hard work of both students and paid professional musicians who spend countless hours making sure the music heard at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart is perfect in the smallest detail. 
This complete lack of respect for the musicians who St)rve the University community is unfounded and tasteless in the most disgusting of ways. 
While it is true that the foremost purpose of the Mass is meditation on and communion with Christ as present in the Eucharist, a second component of the Catholic tradition is completely missing from Evans' argument: that of worshipping as a community. 
In any community, diverse tastes exist. Bonding with Jesus in the Eucharist is an intensely private event; different people go about it different ways. Modern Folk music is in no way less effective in helping a diverse community achieve this goal than the motets of Mozart or the smooth, tlowing nott~s of' Palestrina or Scarlatti. 
As a member of the Liturgical Choir (whose talented eantors Evans also manages to insult in the article), I admittedly find 01at this type of music puts me in touch with the Eucharist more thoroughly than that of Bass or Haugen, but this distinction is an entirely personal one. 
Millions of people have discovered Christ through this music which Evans so adamantly rejects. This fact alone legitimizes its use in the modern Mass. 
Beyond theological arguments, however. a more personal issue is at heart. Evans' derogatory branding of an entire group's gtmre of music is highly offensive to those who work so hard to prepare an inspirational Liturgy each week. 
I can guarantee that the directors of' all Basilica choirs are intlnitely more educated in the appropriateness of particular pieces to particular liturgies than is Evans. The texts of the hymns and choir pieces sung In the Basmca are carefully chosen to reflect the theological message of the day. 
Such dedication, hard work, and attention to detail in liturgical planning is exceedingly rare in any community of faith anywhere: it should be praised, not derided. Evans· display of contempt of the efforts ot' campus musicians is appalling to say the least. 
Perhaps instead of criticizing the work of others. the author could join one of the many groups who perform more of the more traditional music be so enjoys. Until then he would do well to keep his derisive comments to himself. 
Regardless of Evans personal views of Folk musie the shots taken at the Notre Dame Folk Choir in the article ("...a band of holy rollers which makes noise with everything but the kitchen sink.') were both cheap and uncalled for. It is my belief that an immediate and sincere apology to the students in the Folk Choir and it's director is sorely needed. . . 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
ROBERT DORTON 


"Allor nothing." 
-Henrik Ibsen 


-----------------------~--------------­



VIEWPOINT

page 14 Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
• lETTERS TO THE Emnm 
Defending Notre Dame's conservativism 
Dear Editor: 
am a Senior and I have values that are generally con­
sidered to be conservative. I guess the thing that bothers me the most about people in general is they do not use common sense. In last weeks edition of Scholastic, I was a little disgusted with not only the writer but the whole Scholastic staff. 
In my opinion there is certain duty to responsible journalism. That is you do not publish something un­less it is substantiated by fact and you most defmitely do not publish something with the sole purpose of in­flaming hatred. 
Scholastic did not help the Notre Dame community one bit by publishing McMahon's article "Liberalizing Notre Dame" instead, Scholastic helped to breed ani­mosity in our community. 
McMahon in his divine and all-knowing wisdom has determined that to be conservative is simply wrong because conservatism is "based upon the principles of exclusion and greed." 
T
Well, I would first like to point out to McMahon that values are each individuals beliefs and although soci­ety may say some are right it does not necessarily mean that society is right. In the same context just be­cause some people say the values of society are wrong does not necessarily make them wrong. he point is values are those of individuals and al­though society uses these values as a way to govern the whole there is no proof of who is truly right or wrong in some issues. 
The second point I would like to make to McMahon is that if you stereotype conservatism as based on "greed and exclusion", how would you then define liberalism? Would it be murderous and sexually promiscuous? 
My point here is that liberalism is not based on mur­der and sexual promiscuity, just as it is ridiculous to believe that conservatism is based on exclusion and greed like McMahon claims that it is. Instead, conser­vatism is based on values just as liberalism is based on values. 
I know many people who are conservative and they help the poor, they offer their time to worthy causes and they tend to stick to morals of years gone by. The people I know tend to be religious and they do not judge someone by their physical traits. Instead people are judged for their values and their own personality. 
McMahon, because I am white, conservative and my 
parents are paying a good portion of my tuition, does 
this make me "greedy". No! It does not and I am 
appalled that you would generalize people in this man­
ner and that Scholastic would print such garbage. 
M
y parents have mortgaged their home for me to go 
to Notre Dame. They are conservative too and my 
dad just happens to be a Notre Dame grad. Does this 
make them greedy? Do you honestly believe that 
Conservatism is based on greed and exclusion. 
To start with, conservatives tend to think abortion is 
wrong which I will touch on in a moment. I tend to live 
my life as my parents have shown me. That is by 
treating others fairly and at the same time not com­
promising your own values. 
McMahon, you claim to be "open minded and com­
passionate" and that is what you say is at the heart of 
liberalism. McMahon to use your own stereotyping, 
liberalism tends to support abortion on the whole. 
In High School as part of a Sex Education class re­
quired of all students, I was presented with many top­ics on abortion. Is compassion killing a baby before it is born? Have you, sir, ever watched a video of a baby trying to move away from the abortion tools? 
I
Have you ever seen the results of an abortion or even read about them or do you simply live in bliss saying that it is a woman's decision? Abortion is not compas­sion, it is the torturing and murdering of an innocent life and most, not all, conservatives would agree with me. do not like abortion and I do not support it. However, I am not a woman and I recognize that there are times when the mother's life is truly en­dangered and this type of act is needed. 
I am therefore willing to concede in this type of a case that maybe an abortion is justified but I am still not 100 percent convinced. 
You claim that this campus is not open-minded be­cause we do not embrace homosexuality. Well, I be­lieve that being gay is wrong. I feel that God intended certain things and being gay is not one of them. 
I might be wrong but it is what I believe and it is what my religion believes. This does not mean that I am going to go out and hunt down all the gays on the Notre Dame campus and harass them. 
Last year when GLND/SMC had their rallies from what I read there were maybe 100 or 200 people at those rallies. However, for the sake of argument lets say that there were a 1,000. Now, Notre Dame is roughly 10,000 strong in terms of Students and Faculty. This means that only 10 percent of the cam­pus was at that rally at most. 
To me this says that the majority of the remaining 90 percent of this community did not care or they sup­ported the University in this matter. Thus McMahon is wrong when he says, "The administration has re­mained completely deaf to pressing student concerns." 
O
n the contrary the University has made many steps to listen to the concerns of students in this matter with the different committees. What McMahon and other people on this campus fail to realize is that there are certain values that this University supports. 
Although you may not agree with these values, you should at least respect them. So this University does not support GLND/SMC because that would be compro­mising its values. 
It is not as if the University is actively running an investigation on every student to find out if they are gay and then proceeds to kick them out. I think the University is one of tolerance not of persecution like McMahon would like us to believe. 
I have not once heard the University come out and say that gays are not "human beings". That remark, Mr. McMahon, is completely and utterly ridiculous and I have yet to comprehend why you would say this and why the Scholastic would print it. 
McMahon's. open-mindedness is truly seen towards 
the end of his paper. He wants the University to recog­
nize GLND/SMC. He wants the University to give out 
more scholarships to students. But in the same breath 
he condemns the murals in the dome. 
He condemns that school for running its own busi­
ness and property. He condemns the University for the 
CSC building being smaller than the Business School's. 
He also condemns the ROTC program. Your open­
mindedness is overwhelming! 
Actually, I am not impressed, McMahon by you, your 
article or by Scholastic. I find your arguments lacking 

M
in substance. To start with the military has a very important role in the world whether you believe it or not. any citizens of our country have died defending it and defending democracy through out the world. Granted politicians make mistakes about how to use the military at times but mistakes will occur. It does not mean something is completely evil. 
The military is also one of the greatest sources of leadership our country has. The military teaches peo­ple to be leaders, how to make good moral decisions, etc. etc. 
I am not one to say everything is completely wonder­ful here at Notre Dame and with the administration. In fact my biggest complaint is with how the University handles its alcohol policy. 
I hear complaints about organizations not being funded. Pure and simple, a University cannot support every student organization. I am appalled at how both you and the Scholastic in representing our University are trying to breed animosity. 
D
You categorized people racially with your comment "well-to-do white folks". You, sir, are doing exactly what you are preaching against. o not get me wrong either. this is my fourth year at Notre Dame and I have met some really wonderful people. Not green, purple or orange people but people plain and simple people. 
I know there are problems in the would but I also see that Notre Dame graduates of every race, religion, etc. are willing to put out a hand to help where ever and whenever possible. Notre Dame graduates especially look out for one another. 
How many other colleges can say they have the fam­ily atmosphere that we have at Notre Dame? I have watched perhaps one of the greatest outpourings of love with the Ara Parseghian Foundation. 
T
This foundation is helping thousands of children who ar~ inflicted with Niemann Pick disease and I have seen the flood of love and hope that has been give to this organization. One of my good friends, who hap­pened to be my RA freshman year has been down in Chile helping out at an orphanage for the past couple of years. hese are just a few of the many things I have seen 
and these are not acts of greed but acts of love. 
t.bJC
The Notre Dame community is based on values and tradition. We are not a bunch of closed-minded and greedy people like Mr. McMahon implies us to be. 
This University's role is much like our parents' role in teaching us morals and values. My parents have taught me that whenever you want to change some­thing be sure to have the facts straight and in doing so be sure you know what you're talking about. 
I will be the first to admit that there are some 
changes needed at Notre Dame, however, making wild 
accusations and condemnations does not help one bit. 
As a Community, we must not allow people like McMahon and an organization like Scholastic to influ­ence us without giving the facts to back them up. 
Clearly there are some problems on this campus but you do not solve them by breeding animosity. If we allow that to happen we are no better than the people who acted upon the animosity Adolf Hitler created toward the Jewi~h people. 
VINCENT MELODY 
Grace Hall 

America's vanishing melting pot 
Dear Editor: I am writing in response to Andrea Jordan's Inside Column from Nov. 20. 
The structure of American society has made a one-hun­dred and eighty degree turn. Decades ago, Americans worked to come together People assimilated with the gen­eral population and put their differences aside in order to fit in. America was a melting pot because the nation's various colors merged to form one combination, like dif­ferent paints running together to form a dull gray. Unfortunately, the best part of each individual was lost in the process. 
But in recent years, instead of being a nation that is bound by a common dedication to democracy, we are a nation that is fractionalized, segregated by the very aspects that make us diverse. Gone is the melting pot; in its place stands a bucket of marbles each individual a small, cold sphere that contains only its own colors that cannot be mixed with another's. Americans realized that an important part of their lives was missing. And with due reason; ethnicity is one of the factors that makes a person an individual as well as part of another group. 
However, it is not the only component that identifies a person. People have more things in common than they have differences. 
Although Andrea Jordan is African-American and I am Caucasian, we are both female Americans both students at the University of Notre Dame. I am assuming we both go to football games, and it is a safe bet that we both believe in God. And I know for sure that we both have strong opinions and a desire to express them. It is this common ground that is important, not our different skin colors. 
I choose to focus on the future, not on the past. Yes, the United States has an ugly past; it is true that white Americans killed Native Americans and enslaved Africans and African-Americans. This is not a trite detail, and it is important to move on and to realize that one is responsi­ble for one's own life now. To focus too much on past injustices is to encourage separatism. 
It is important to recall one's past with pride; but, it is more important to look forward to a unified future where success can be obtained. After all, we are moving ahead, not backwards. 
Neither the melting pot nor the bucket of marbles worked. It is clear that a separatist society only heightens the tensions between rich and poor, black and white, majority and minority. According to Colin Powell, "Success isn't acting white, it's acting American." 
A person gets his or her identity from a unique past that should be cherished and remembered, as both Andrea and I remember and cherish our own pasts; but that past should be used to enrich society as a whole, not to segre­gate it. If we hope to maintain our society, we must merge to form a mosaic. The mosaic is a work of art as a whole, but individual pieces maintain their identity. 
In order for our society to succeed, all factions must come together to form a central group that is dedicated to life, liberty, and equality, and at the same time maintain ethnic and religious identities in the family and communi­ty. 
STACEY MCNULTY 
Sophomore 
Farley Hall 


It's autumn tim~. and all around the leaves are falling down tQ the ground. The ball is snapped, the receivers run, it's,~old outside and we're having fun! 
Run receivers, go so fast, don't stop now-we're having a blast! ·After t.qe game has reached its end, we'll, go home and we'll leave South Bend. 
·=\:!::=·· 

I'll always remember this wonderful day, 
,,,the Irish have won and we shout ''hurray!" So as I join the Irish cheer. this is the highlight of my year! 
DYLAN SNYDER 

--~---~~----------~-----~----­




ACCENT 


In a quest for cash, Saint Mary's Accent Editor Angie Kelver paid a visit to South Bend's friendly plasma donation center and learned that "blood money" is definitely not "easy money." 
By ANGIE KELVER 
Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
<E
xactly how far would you go for money? This could be a catchy new advertising slogan for tlw American Biomedical Center where plasma donations are performed for monetary gain. After visiting the center I considered suggesting this new slogan to them. But. I refrained. Somehow I don't think they would have found it funny. 
When I decid1~d to experience plasma donation firsthand, l thought it would be an interest­ing investigative piece for The Observer. not to mention the fact that l was going to be paid $20 for my plasma. At one low point or another, every student has wailed, "l am so broke that I arn just going to have to donate plasma!" But I have only known a few to actually go through with it. Since I consider myself a relatively brave person, I figured I could handle it. l laugh in the face of danger. What's a little pain? A needle? No sweat. Oh, silly, silly girl. 
I don't remmnber the exact moment when I began to realize that I was in over my head. It could havtl been when the nurse had me hold out my arms so she could check for any needle traek marks. (I.V. drug users are not welcome at the American Biomedical Center.) But, l think I becamn a little apprehensive when I started to fill out the "new donor" questionnaire. By thn way. if you are shy, think twice about this experience. They were asking some pretty ptJrsonal questions regarding sexual experiences, body tattoos and drug history, all of which artl rwcessary but embarrassing. 
After I winced my way through the questionnaire, the nurse poked my finger to check my blood type and my protein level which, by the way, was very good. (I do so enjoy my red meat.) I was also weighed and given a Dixie cup for my urine test. After that ordeal was eompleted, I sat down to wait for my physical. It was at this juncture in my visit that I got a chance to check out the waiting room. The center was a pleasant place with several live pot­tnd plants scattered around. These reaffirmations of life calmed me slightly. The Mission Statement wa..o; di.<iplayed on the wall: "American Biomedical is dedicated to the production and delivery of the highest quality and most effective biological products while maintaining thtl most stringent medical standards to insure donor safety and customer satisfaction." Now that was all very nice, but it didn't mention anything about sparing the donor from pain and suffering. This omission had me slightly worried. 
The nurse called my name and I was ushered into a tiny examining room for my physical. I was poked, prodded, and inspected. After s'i~ning some more forms, I talked with the nurse for awhiln and this is when I learned the lo~stics of the actual procedure. At this point I realized whomever it was that said "Ignorance is bliss" is one smart cookie. 
Plasmapheresis is defined as a procedure by which plasma, or the liquid portion of your whole blood is separated from the cellular elements of the blood, i.e. the red cells, white cells, and the platelets. After the separation occurs, they infuse your blood, minus the plasma, haek into your veins. Upon hearing all of this, I realized that every experience I have had up until this point did not prepare me. Dissecting the fetal pig and watching Silence of the Lambs more than once does not even come close. 
The centf1r is completely committed to donor and recipient safety. All of the equipment that comes into contact with the donor is disposable; one use only. After the plasma is donated, it is tested for AII>S, hepatitis and drug use. This occurs at every donation so frequent donors get t11sted every time they come in. Which, by the way, can be pretty often. Plasma is repro­duced twery two days, so donation is allowed twice a week. So if you are looking for a rela­­tively steady source of income, the American Biomedical Center is the place to be. 
I suppose this would be the appropriate time to get into the cold, hard cash aspect of this whole process. You get ten dollars for your first donation in a calendar week. If you eat a lot of Wheaties and are able to complete it a second time during that same week, you receive fif­teen bucks. There are also many bonuses and incentive programs. I was allotted an extra five dollars for being a new customer. Plus, if you recruit a new victim I mean, donor, you can get an extra ten bucks. Upon hearing this, I felt almost asif I had just been recruited to sell Amway products. 
When I was finally ushered into the donation room, I was very surprised. I don't know what I expected. but the place vaguely resembled a beauty salon. I was seated in a black Laz-1\-Boy armchair that had a good view of one of the televisions set up for the donors' view­ing plnasure. A lab technician was walking around serving fruit punch Gatorade from a sii­Vtlr tray. If it hadn't been for the evil looking machinery beside me, I could have kicked back my Laz-E-Boy, drank some Gatorade and enjoyed Mrs. Ooubtfire, the movie selection now showing. But, there is no rest for the weary and a very nice man came over momentarily to hook me up to tlw ma<~hine. lie told me I had nice veins. I suppose as far as compliments go I should take what I can get. A rather large, evil-looking needle was inserted into my arm and I am not going to lie to you. It hurt. I could have cried but I was surrounded by jaded donors who Wllrtl watching Mrs. Doubtfire very nonchalantly. It was a little difficult to be eool whnn watching my very lifeblood being sucked out of my veins and whirred through this big machine, but I was dntermirwd to try. 
Nnar the mrd of the ]5 minute period I was attached to the machine, I relaxed a little. I nven dratted with sonw of the other donors, and they were all quite friendly. When I was unhooknd, my new friends showed some concern. They advised me not to stand up right away bneausn I could faint. At this point I became indignant. They were treating me like some silly eollege girl who was writing an artid~ for her newspaper or something. Couldn't tlwy snn that I was one of them'? I had the pumkure wound to prove it. So, I stood up with spunk and promptly fpll right back into my ehair. My knees buckled, and I felt similar to as if I had bnen run over by a really big truck. I laid there for a moment while they all shared a eondnscending laugh. Then. I collected my money, went home and slept for three hours straight. 
Tlwrn is no doubt this experience taught me a lot. I learned about the whole plasmaphere­sis procnss and I did my part to help a good cause. My plasma goes to aid heomphiliacs, heart surgery patients and burn victims. Despite the warm glow it gave me during this holi­day season, I don't think I will be returning to the plasma donation center any time soon. This just was not an easy way to make twenty bucks. 



,...------~---~------~-----~----------------~-----------------­
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
• COllEGE fOOTBALl 

Phillips on probation yet still available for Fiesta Bowl 
By DAVE ZELIO Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Nebraska running back Lawrence Phillips was sen­tenced to one year of probation Tuesday, 11 weeks after he beat a former girlfriend and was suspended from the team. He will be availabie for the Fiesta Bowl. 
Phillips also was ordered by Lancaster County Judge Jack Lindner to attend a domestic violence prevention class and pay $359 in restitution. 
He still is barred from contact with Nebraska basketball play­er Kate McEwen, whom he attacked Sept. 10. 
Phillips, accompanied by attorney Hal Anderson, de­
clined to comment after the sentencing and later at the school's athletic offices. 
"I don't know what's fair and what's not fair," coach Tom Osborne said of the sentence. "I know that he'll comply and I feel very good about what Lawrence has done to this point. He's done what he's been 

asked to do ... whatever the court says, that's what he'll d0." 
Police said Phillips broke into the apartment of transfer quar­terback Scott Frost and attacked McEwen with his hands. Frost and another man managed to get Phillips away from McEwen after she had been dragged down a flight of stairs. 
The incident destroyed the Heisman Trophy hopes of Phillips, who ran for 359 yards and seven touchdowns in Nebraska's first two games. 
1 
Osborne dismissed Phillips from the team the day of the assault, but later called it an indefinite suspension. Phillips rejoined the team Oct. 24. 
1 
I
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

Need a ride alter exams to CT or Happy Birthday, Rachel! I bring you toast NY. Will help drive/pay for gas. May Success Be Yours In 
NOTICES PERSONAL
PLEASE HELP. Call Fretel 1352. SABOR LATINO Every1hing You Do And May I've spread my dreams beneath 
Thursday Dec. 7 @ 10 pm The Future Always Bring Life's your feet, tread softly for you Ired Spring Break Bahamas Party I need ride to NE, SD, w. lA, or s. 0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0c0c0c0 Club 23 Finest Gilts To You. on my dreams. -WBY CruiseI Early Specials I 7 Days MN. Call Amy at x4692 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! SABOR LATINO Love, Mom and Jim $279! Includes 15 Meals & 6 THE COPY SHOP They are all normal arkies with dia­Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! GREEK/LATIN HELP WANTED. LaFortune Student Center HEY THERE roomies, weasel I need ride for Xmas 2 E. PA, NJ, bolical plans to take over the world. Prices Increase 11/21 & 121151 Graduate Patristics student knowl­Phone 631-COPY friends, headquarters, joel-nic-tim or DE via rt80/PATnpk; help drive & Spring Break Travel1-800-678-edge in the Fathers needed urgent­0c0c0c0c0c0o0c0c0c0o0 triumverate, zahm ras and others, pay; call Jared 0508 The Common Comorant or Shag 6386 ly for translation and library pete and andrew, and 'everyone' Lays its eggs in a paper bag. 
research. Call anytime 219-848-DON'T YOU CARE ABOUT YOUR else i love so... Driving 2 NY/NJ 4 xmas? The reason you will see no doubt Spring Break! Panama City! Early 5187. HEALTH AND ENVIRONMENT?!? HAVE A HAPPY FINALS AND Want company? It is to keep the lightning out. Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room I thought so.... MERRY CHRISTMAS! Kristen 2342 But what these unobservant birds With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Unique gilt ideas which you are seuh, Have never realized is that herds
FOR RENT 

Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach bound to like. Check it out! brig ita Hey! of wandering bears may come with Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 Not sold in stores! Call 634-2113. Happy Holidays, Wendy, buns & 1211511-800-678-6386 HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND Well they blew up the chicken man Brenda, Kelly, Esther, Stacy, And steal the bags to hold crumbs. 
232-2595 in Philly last night Katie, Patty, Sarah, Reb, Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Student Activities is still accepting Now they blew up his house too Bridget, Rose, Erin, Kristin, And continue to pluck Specials! 111% Lowest Price One person furnished apt. applications for: Out on the Boardwalk they're get­Angie, Megan, the Observer From time and times to come Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South 3.5 miles from campus STEPAN BUILDING MANAGERS ting ready for a fight Staff, and especially to the men The silver apples of the moon Bend & Hotel From $4191 Book Must see BUILDING SET UP CREW gonna see what those racket boys (and women) of 2-C. I'll miss And the gold apples of the sun. Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Call alter 6:00 232-0355 SOUND TECHNICIANS can do you guys! -WBY Spring Break Travel1-800-678-Pick up applications at 315 Now there's trouble bussing in from Ethan 6386 2 VERY nice rooms-LaFortune. Deadline Wed,Dec 6. out of state The devil lives in my oatmeal. 
1 for Spring '96 and beyond; For information call631-7308. and the DA can't get no relief "What do you think about the exe­& 1 for Summer '96 gonna be a rumble out on the prom­cution of the Chicago Bear's Clean up your mess!!!
ILOST & FOUND I 

Both incl utilities & extras HAPPY HOLIDAYS TO EVERY­enade Defense?" 5-min drive, $240 .. ONE AND GOOD LUCK ON and the gambling commissions -"I'm all for it. .." And the last of the Class of '95 
JACKET LOST 1-4809/232-7175 FINALS. hanging on by the skin of its teeth is going, going, GONE!!!!!!!! forest green winter jacket with hood The bitterness has set in ... (Eddie Bauer); last seen: Club 23 Posse out... Every1hing dies baby that's a fact I love the friends I have gathered in 
FOR SALE 

on Wed. Nov. 29; please call: but maybe everything that dies KEVV-this thin raft. We have constructed Nancy 273-6508 some day comes back We're going to make it so hang in pyramids in honor of our passing.
...................... 
. . . . . ---------------Amy Weiher-Happy Anniversary & so put your make up on and fix your there! Just click your heels three Brownish backpack misplaced at Hey Ski Buffs ... Happy Birthday. I Love You! hair up pretty times ..... . Kelly, SDH Friday morning. Any info. call Love Always, Pat and meet me tonight in Atlantic City -M My dear old friend did you know I x3835. No questions asked. ND Ski Team T-shirts am going to be a second Lt in the 
Only $10! Desperately need ride to NE, AF soon and that I have never If you wore a DARK TURQUOISE Call today and receive your shirt Hey my fellow 3-M'ers! Good luck SD, w. lA, or s. MN for break! grown any1hing other then weedS. DOUBLE-BREASTED jacket to the folded for no extra charge! Wow! with Hell week and have a great Class of 1998 Please call Amy at x4692 miss California. I bet you do too, Keenan/Lewis dance on Friday, you Potter @ 232-2955 Christmas. Is that ALL? NO! I'll "must see TV" seeing as how you are in Boston may have grabbed the wrong one *************"*"'***** see ya soon lor some fun in the STuDy Lorie, and have only been here once. alter the dance-mine. Please sun. OB -here we come! Love BReaK "What do Demi Moore and Cindy -David check your jacket if it is this type, or you guys, spaz girl Thursday 7:30-?? Crawford have that I don't have? tell your friends to check if they The Dating Handbook-2002 Things LaFortune Ballroom "Bruce Willis and George Jenny-Here is your stupid thing wore this type of jacket. I would be to do on a Date. Fun, Silly, mcgrath ... whipped cream and pista­A Good Time & Free Clooney, apparently." David more than glad to make an Romantic, Unique-132 pages. chio nuts? spam and sugar-free are Included. -Erin exchange. Just call x1765 and ask $8.95 to Goshen Publishers, 422 jello? canned beets and pineapple •1•!•!•!•1•1•1•!•!•!•!• Its as easy as 1-2-3! He may be a forOPIE. W. Lincoln Hwy, Suite 121, Exton, chunks? NO SNYDER'S PRET­Merry Xmas GAMBLERS dork, but I think he is a sharp dress­
PA 19341 ZELS, THAT'S FOR SURE! (a little Penthouse: you know you rock the house er! 
deprivation never hurt anyone) i say Happy Christmas, merry finals! . here's to our last semester .. LOST: silver earring with black we just go out and get as much Thanks for every1hing! i look forward to your couch Marges­stone & French hook in SDH. 2 ROUNDTRIP AIRLINE TIX­head cheese and olive loaf as pos­Love, -casijones On behalf of The Observer staff, I Please call Kristin at X3534. INDY TO SARASOTA. sible. actually, lucas and tyler will The Bubble Witches from the Drake would like to say that you will be 
LV. DEC 22, RETURN DEC. 31. probably wolf it all down. library cir­HEY T-REX, Don't worry about greatly missed ... Too bad no one LOST: 1 knit glove, light blue with 288-0702. cle at 5:20? bring your meijer's cir­JACKO. We'll take gooooood care wrote me a goodbye message!! I pink stripes. call Kristin at X3534. cular ... nannery K.B.: of him while your in the former will hve to write myself 
Toyota Camry 86, must sell, good Oh what a semester we have USSR. HA HA HA one...GOODBYE AMY!!! condition,$ 2900,631-3949 To My Accent Staff: had! --Your London roomie
WANTED 

You guys rock, in case I've forgot­But your departure soon makes alex & joe-we will miss you 
. -Drive home in style. 1990 Honda ten to mention it. Ash and Ang, me so sad! love-julie,bridget,ms,katie,&ms. HAPPY BIRTHDAY NOONAN!!! '' ' FREE TRIPS & CASH''' Accord LX. One driver. Top condi­what will I do without you? Try The hardest core-that has been mcguire!! Love, Gwen, Heather, and Beth and Find out how hundreds of students tion. Great car.$8750. Bob at 277-telepathy, because I've gotta get us. the entire Observer Staff. are already earning FREE TRIPS 2560. your ideas somehow. I will miss you We've helped the others get on The Observer News Depratment and LOTS OF CASH with both. And Joey, boy, you are an the bus. wishes its soon to be departed Plum, America's #1 Spring Break compa­FOR SALE: One Orange Bowl tick­Accent force to reckon with. You do T.C. recliners will never be the commrades the best of luck over­Thanks for the opening. It was a ny! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! et. Call Mark@ 201-985-1517. me proud. Forgive me for getting same. seas great way to turn over the year. Choose Cancun, Bahamas, sentimental, but I love all of you. What's that cartoon character? Ethan Hayward, Amy Schmidt and -M.D. Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! 81 Ford Mustang, T-tops, chrome You've made this semester so awe­I forget his name. Tom Moran we'll miss ya!l!! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­wheels, rebuilt, straight-6 engine, some. Merry Christmas and Milk shots, the Slapper, drinking Bring us back some cool stuff. Lizzy, EL (800)95-BREAK! tint. Runs very well. remember, my place on Jan 2. in the rain. Hi. From your "no-so-secret" admir­
$1950 o.b.o. Love, krista Kegs 'n Eggs, Breakfast, & MD Hey Sherman-er. Two genial guys looking for rides Call Isaac at 634-1668 kept us sane. We all know what department really home to Eastern Mass. over 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 The Stud Invasion-we were in it drives this paper.. Lizzy, for more roses call x4208. Christmas break. Will split Matador/solid-wood lego seV$65/ LaFortune Student Center together. At least we don't wait for the (Shhhhll!). gas/tolls/etc. If you can only take 631-5082 EXTENDED FINALS HOURS You motivated me to drink in any Chicago Tribune to one of us home, that's fine too. We're open longer type of weather. publish before we write something. Aimee, you have a silly hat. Please call Tom x 1173 or Marty VOUCHER TO ANYWHERE on to serve you better! The Brownson Burning was Two words: Copy Editing! x3419 as soon as possible. SouthWest Air, worth $314, BO, Fri. 1218 7:30am-MIDNIGHT such a treat. Peace out MMM... peppermint schnapp's. Oh 
x3029 Sat. 1219 9:00am-MIDNIGHT "This is how we do it!" kept us on And Dante sucks too. wait no! I need a ride to NYC on 15 or 16 Sun. 12110 9:00am-MIDNIGHT our feet. Dec, will share costs and keep you PUT SOME PUNCH IN YOUR The Lounge and Chez will feel a To that stellar group of people awake. Ph. Tim on 4-3984. WEAK SYSTEM with my INFINITI void. known as the NEWS STAFF (yes 57 days until Punxsutawney Phil. 
sub-woofer (not powered) $150 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 I can't wait to create our CD. even you Amy) -One of the originals won't be there, I REALLY need a ride home to NYC OBO and worth it. LaFortune Student Center I'll miss you so much. Have fun! you guys are the BEST thanks for but only in spirit. I'll just have to (or anywhere in the tri-state area) Jim X1581 EXTENDED FINALS HOURS Love, an incredible semester and helping make sure and celebrate Chinese for Christmas. I'll split gas/tolls, and We're open longer Your P.I.C. to return news to its rightful place New Year's early enough to cap­have good travel tapes. to serve you better! and the head of this paper. atalize this year! 
TICKETS

PLEASE call Bob 4-1244 Fri. 1218 7:30am-MIDNIGHT Merry Christmas and remember 
Sat. 12/9 9:00am-MIDNIGHT HELP!!!!! Nannery's on Jan. 21!! Wine, women, and cheese ... one of NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Cover your family x-mas gilts in one Sun. 12110 9:00am-MIDNIGHT If wore DARK TURQUOISE these is not like the other. One of Positions are now available at shot. Treat your family to TIX to DOUBLE-BREASTED jacket to The Benevolent Despot, these just isn't invited. National Parks, Forests & Wildlife MISS SAIGON this x-mas! Keenan or Lewis Dance Friday, Dave Preserves. Excellent benefits + I have 4 TIX for Friday Dec. 29th 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 Dec. 1, may have grabbed wrong Hey Rule, shave next time if you're bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. 8:00 pm show, center balcony LaFortune Student Center one-mine. Check your jacket if Kiddo, going to use all of Lance's cream. N55843 Auditorium Theater Chicago EXTENDED FINALS HOURS this type, or tell friends to. More Well, this is it! Hope you have 
FACE VALUE: $30 each We're open longer than happy to exchange. Call enjoyed these notes. I am off to I'm I don't have to pay lor these CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­call me @ 4-3397 to serve you better! OPIE at x1765. Thanks. bluer pastuers, as it were. classifieds. Earn up to $2,000+/month working Fri. 1218 7:30am-MIDNIGHT Somewhere around the Santa on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­DESPERATELY SEEKING Sat. 1219 9:00am-MIDNIGHT ADOPTION Barbara region. Make sure you say Jen Lance-Sandy Coleman from panies. World travel. Seasonal & 2 tix for the TWISTED XMAS Sun. 12110 9:00am-MIDNIGHT A wonderful home awaits your hello to John and get me one of North Carolina says hi. full-time employment available. No CONCERT at Rosemont baby. Happily married, financially those terri-cloth robes. I miss you experience necessary. For more Horizon for 12108/95. Big $$$. ja-ja-janicki secure couple will give much love. lots and will indeed catch a Red Lauren-You're so cutel I can't wait information call 1-206-634-0468 Call 232-3227 if you can Nannery we will do nothing of the Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Sox game with you this year. for Easter weekend to meet fat ext. C55842 help me. sort -Tyler Peter at 800-529-8386. -An Illinois Farmer uncle and not go to church .... 
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• HOCKEY 
Irish mounting new momentum 
By MIKE DAY Spom Writer 
They couldn't ask for a better Christmas gift. 
With just one game remaining before a three week hiberna­tion, the Notre Dame hockey team would love to start the holidays with a fifth CCJiA vie­tory under their belts. And with 5-9-1 Ferris State heading to the Joyce Center on Saturday night, the odds of that couldn't bt~ any better. 
"We are definitely playing loose and with a lot of conri­dence right now," said Notre Dame goaltender Matt Eisler. "When wn go out and play like we know we're going to win, then we are pretty tough to beat." 
With a 4-7 conference record, the Irish am playing their best hockey of the season. After de­feating the Bulldogs 4-3 last Friday at Ewigleben Ice Arena, it appears that unless FSU has Santa Claus in their back pock­et this time around, Notre Dame will begin the winter break in sole possession of sixth place in the CCIIA. 
The Bulldogs have lost seven of their last nine games enter­ing the weekend. However, lit­tle blame can be placed on an FSU defense that has given up just 3.13 goals per game so far this season. Goaltender Jeff Blashill is among the top goal­tenders in the conference with a 3.44 GAA. 
Although they were once con­sidered to be the weak link on a mediocre team, Notre Dame's improved offensive unit should pose serious problems for Blashill. Freshmen forwards Brian Urick and Aniket 

gilts lhat serve the maker 
Shop at Lat.,ortune Student Center 
Dee. 6, 7, 8 Hours 9 a.m. -6 p.m. Room 108 



BALLENGE 
4:00-5:00  
2  4:10.5:10  
3  5:20-6:20  
4  5:20-6:20  
5  4:15-5:15  
6  4:15-5:15  
7  5:30-6:30  
!I  5:30-6:30  
9  12:15-12:45  
10  4:00-5:00  
II  5:20-6:20  
12  9:00-10:00  
13  6:30-7:15 am  
14  12:15-12:45  
IS  4:15-5:15  
16  5:30-6:30  
17  9:00-10:00  
18  5:30-6:30  
19  4:00-5:00  
20  5:15-5:45  
21  6:00-7:00  
22  12:15-12:45  
23  6:45-7:45  

•

FITNESS SCHEDULE SPRING, 1996 
.IQ\:CE CEr:-!IER CLASSES 
STEP  Gym 1  MIW  
Hi Intensity  Gym 2  M/W  
STEP  Gym 1  M/W  
Flex & Tone  Gym 2  M/W  
STEP  Gym 1  T/Th  
Hi Intensity  Gym 2  T!Th  - 
Combo  Gym I  T/Th  
Lo Impact  Gym 2  T/Th  
RQCKr:-!E CLASSES  

Beg. STEP 301 M/WfF 
STEP 301 M/WfF STEP 301 M/W STEP 301 M/W 
STEP 301 T/Th STEP/Lo 219 T/Th STEP 301 T/Th STEP 301 T/Th Combo 301 T/Th 
STEP 301 F 
STEP 301 Su All Abs 301 Su STEP 301 Su 
BQLES CLASSES 
Aqua else M/W/F Aquacise 
T/Th 
$23 $18 $23 $18 $23 $18 SIS $18 
$25 $35 $23 $23 $23 $23 $23 $23 $18 
$12 
$12 $12 $12 
$18 $18 

Make the commltment to aphysically active 1996 by joining aChallenge Ufitness class. Regular physical activity can help you look good and feel even better! Sign· ups begin THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 7:30am at the RecSports office located in the Joyce Center. Classes will begin Monday, January 22. Class minimum of twelve participants. ••Schedule is tentative. Take the time to WORK IN your 
WORKOUT. 
Dhadphale have compiled 10 points apiece in just the first 11 games of their collegiate ca­reers. 
''They have done a great job for us from day one," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "They played strong at the beginning of the season when the rest of the guys were struggling, and they've kept it up as the year as progressed." 
As well as the Irish freshmen have played, the senior group is the main reason for Notre Dame's sudden surge in the CCHA. Senior captain Brett Bruininks has scored in each of his last five games, and senior forwards Jamie Ling (10 points) and Jay Matushak (five) have also contributed to the team's improved play. 
"We knew that we had to step up and not Jet the freshmen carry the load all season," said Bruininks. "It was just a mat­ter of time before we got comfortable with the new sys­tem and started to produce the results that we knew we were capable of." 


The Observer/Brent T a <Isen 

Steve Noble (22), Ben Nelsen (27), and Brett Bruininks will lead Notre 
The Bulldog offense has 

Dame against Ferris State this weekend. 
strugglP.d for much of the sea­son, averaging just 3.45 goals unit will have to elevate their to get going at the beginning of per contest. Forwards Derek games to beat the Irish. the year, but we are starting to Crimin (14 points) and Scott "The defense started to pick it understand the new system and Bell (11) along with defense­up again over the last few the results are getting better." man Andy Roach (13) have weeks," said junior defenseman 
played well, but the rest of the Ben Nelsen. "It took us a while 
Wrestling coaches looking for responsible students willing to donate time for wrestling program from middle of December through April. 
Call Tom Dolly 255-0137 (evenings after 8:00pm} 
Program meets 2 nights a week, 2 hours per night 
507 W. Broadway Mishawaka, IN 46545 

Just in time for Christmas. 
Haue some­thing to say? Use Obseruer classifieds. 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 
•' 

-~~--~­
-~~-~-­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
•NBA 


Despite Rodman's injury, Bulls do not miss a beat 
By MIKE NADEL 
Associated Press 
DEERFIELD, Ill. 
Dennis Rodman was sup­posed to bring toughness and rebounding to the Chicago Bulls. He hasn't, but it hasn't mattered. 
Even without the injured Rodman and even with the team not playing particularly well during a seven-game road trip, the Bulls have put together the NBA's best record, 13-2. 

The catalyst has been -who else?-Michael Jordan. 
"There are some nights when my offensive output has really given the team a lift," Jordan said Tuesday, the day before the Bulls' first home game in almost three weeks. "But that's the purpose of a team, isn't it? On days when some people don't produce, others have to 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Michael Jordan, seen here dribbling up the court, has been the cata­lyst behind the Bulls 13-2 start which is tops in the NBA. 
Now that yot1 are 211Dot\'t get 


BUSTcSD! 
Love, 3essica, Gina, Dawn, Kara, Catheri11e1 Carey, Veronica and 
erir1 

Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
Call234-0363 
(24 hours) 
SOUTH BEND 
417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 
(Convenient to Campus) 


step up. I would not say I was winning those games by myself." 
There's stepping up and then there's stepping up. 
Jordan, well on the way to his eighth NBA scoring title, aver­aged 33 points during the 6-1 road swing. The trip's highlight was at Vancouver against the expansion Grizzlies, when Jordan scored 19 points in the fmal 6 minutes to turn an eight­point deficit into a pull-away victory. 
It was vintage Michael Jordan, who saved the Bulls on many occasions during the 1991, 1992 and 1993 champi­onship runs. He has been much more consistently spectacular than he was last season, when he often looked rusty after end­ing his 17-month retirement. 
"Save the team? I don't know about that," Jordan said. "Just to be able to give the team a lift ... it's fun to know I can still do that. But the ideal situation is not to have those situations evolve." 
Despite their lofty status in the standings, the Bulls go• into Wednesday's game against the New York Knicks unhappy with how they are playing. 
"Michael and Scottie (Pippen) have been carrying us," backup guard Steve Kerr said. "Every once in a while, someone else has a good game, but we've got to be better. We're not even close to being consistent off the bench. Toni (Kukoc) and I need to get going." 
The Bulls are so worried about their interior defense and rebounding that they have been talking to center Sam Bowie, who retired after playing with the Los Angeles Lakers last sea­son. 

Much of that defense and rebounding was expected to come from Rodman, who was acquired from San Antonio in October but hasn't played since he strained a calf muscle in the third regular-season game. He said his chances of playing Wednesday were "50-50 at best," and indicated that he more likely would return two nights later against San Antonio. 
Though he practiced at almost full speed Tuesday, Rodman still hasn't given the thumbs up to coach Phil Jackson, who said he isn't wor­ried about the enigmatic for­ward's reluctance to return to action. 
"It's just Dennis. You don't get troubled by what happens with Dennis," Jackson said. 
During Rodman's con­valescence, he again changed hair colors -now it's lime green. He also appeared nude in Playboy magazine; in the ac­companying article, he said: "I bring excitement. Michael Jordan used to do that. Now it's the Dennis Rodman show." 
Not quite. 
Jordan never needed that kind of, urn, exposure to prove his uniqueness. 
During the road trip, Jordan delivered plenty of excitement to sold-out arenas. He also delivered victories on the court. And even though he repeatedly had to bail out the Bulls, Jordan didn't echo his team­mates' concern about the level of Chicago's play. 


Notre Da·me Golf Shop 
This Year Make Holiday Shopping Special Oven Mondav-Fridav 9am-4vm 
:a. ..r ..r ::l. 
20%-50% offnow through Dec. 21 Exclusive Apparel and Gifts, Personal Assistance, No Crowds, No Hassles End-ofSeason Sale, Mail Orders Available Enter offUS 31 N near WNDU or call631-6425 
Choose from a large selection of exclusive College Football Hall of Fame merchandise. Big Ten and Notre Dame Items also available! Perfect gifts for everyone on your list! 


111 Souch Saine Joseph Screec • Souch Bend 219/235-5700 Open Daily 9am-7pm • Free Parking • Free Admission 
-------------------------------------------------------. 
Special $5 ff

Holiday 0 a $25 or more purchase Savings $100 ff a $40 n,r or more purehase
' c0 up0 n! v.I;J ohm 12/HN~. l;m;, """ wupnn I'"' '"""mw. N·" '" lw wmh;,..,J w;th '"Y mhw nff···· 
GIFTs H 0 p • 
·-------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, December 6, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
start and looks to equal last "We're not as consistent as Wyche, who has stepped in Travis Knight. season's 21.1 scoring average. we need to be," said MacLeod. admirably for injured forward MacLeod also hopes that the
UConn 
lie is joined by senior Doron "We're not locked into any set Derrick Manner, registering 10 season's first big home crowd 
Sheffer, an Israeli who dished lineup, and it may take a while
continued from page 28 
out 80 more assists than to get there because we're play­turnovers last season. ing a lot of young players." 
That's especially true of the The antithesis to UConn, Indeed, five of the top sevenConnecticut squad, which re­Notre Dame is still unsettled in scorers for the Irish are un­turns <lllH of the best baekcourts its rotation, as ten players have derclassmen, headed by for­in America . .Junior Ray Allen, a seen varying minutes thus far ward Pat Garrity (13.3 ppg) andfirst team all-Big East presea­in the season. surprising freshman Antoni
son selection, is off to a fast 


STUDENT BOWL TICKETS SALE INFORMATION 
JOYCE CENTER -GATE 10 Wednesday, Dec. 6 ............... 12-5 p.m. 
Thursday, Dec. 7 ............. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Friday, Dec. 8 .................. 9 a.m.-5 p.m. TICKET PRICE: $50 
Payment by cash or check made payable to the University of Notre Dame 

Each ND/SMC student may purchase one ticket. You may present your ID card and three other ID cards to purchase a maximum of four tickets. 
For more info., call the ND ticket office@ 631-7356. 
points per game. ,. , 
Center Phil Hickey has also contributed valuable minutes, pulling down 18 rebounds in the past two contests. He will have to continue that trend as the Irish triumvirate of llickey, Matt Gotsch, and Mareus Young attempt to slow Husky eenter 


Irish head coach John Macleod realizes that his team will need some time to adjust to their new conference. 
~ 
NeeN~~JJ

Flickinger, 
You are fi.11ally 21 I Yourfamily a11d your .frie11ds all love you. God has bee11 

~@ij1)~@lr ((;~~@}@} f~~:W f.f1r®~h.D®t~@U1l 
of Neil Simon's Plaza Suite 
There will 11e an informational meeting for Seniors interested in aoting or helping 
7:00pm Wednesday, December 6th 122 Hayes-Healey 
(Those east will rec;eive scripts, but rehearsals will not begin until January) 
will give the Irish a boost. 
"We're hopeful that thern will be a throng in there," he said. "Indiana is a basketball state, and there are a lot of knowl­edgable fans out there. Conneeticut is a top team eorn­ing .!n; this is all you eould ask for. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
• JOCK STRIP 

Championship tournament should determine No. 1 
N
ew Coke. EuroDisney. and Pacific 10. Second, the Peter McNeeley. bowl coalition sends the cham­Ninety-nine percent of pions from the five remaining film sequels produced in major conferences (there will Hollywood. be four What do major all of these confer­have in com-ences mon? They n e x t y e a r
are all com­Todd Fitzpatrick
plete fail­when ures. the Big
Sports Writer 
Add one more to the top of the list: the Division lA college football bowl system. 
The solution: a National Championship Tournament. 
College football, arguably the most exciting sport ever invent­ed, ends every season in the most confusing, anti-climactic way possible. Who is the best team in the country? Who wins the National Championship? The answer to each of these questions may not be the same. 
Last year, Penn State was the best team in the country. In head-to-head competition with Nebraska, Joe Paterno's Nittany Lions would have beat­en the overrated Cornhuskers by at least a touchdown. We will never know, however, if this prediction would have been true. Penn State defeated Oregon, while Nebraska squeaked past the Miami Hurricanes to capture the National Championship. 
The bowl coalition has slight­ly improved the bowl system, but several adjustments are necessary. First, the champi­ons of the Big Ten and the Pacific 10 conferences are con­tractually bound to play each other in the Rose Bowl. Therefore, the best teams from these conferences can never play in a decisive National Championship game unless the top two teams in the country happen to be from the Big Ten 

-

Eight 
and part 
of the Southwest Conference merge), along with an at-large bid that is guaranteed to Notre Dame if they finish in the Top 10 of the Associated Press or CNNIUSA Today rankings. If one of the country's two best teams plays in the Rose Bowl, there is no true National Championship game. 
Because both conferences and bowl games are very pow­erful, each would have to play an integral part in a National Championship Tournament. This dream tournament would include champions from the Big Ten, Pacific 10, Atlantic Coast Conference, Big East, Southeast Conference, the newly aligned Big 12, and two at-large bids that would include Notre Dame (if they end the season ranked in Top Ten) and the most highly ranked team that had not earned any of the aforemen­tioned automatic bids. 
:~i~1h:.:~:~:~;,s From$1ndianapo1Jis
& Ch,icago 
• 
AfT Non-Stop Airfare 

• 
7 Nights Hotel Accom. 

• 
RIT Airport to Hotel Transfers 

• 
College Tours famous VIP Party Package: FREE cover charges. FREE parties, FREE food & drinks, EXCLUSIVE special events. OVER $150 in savings! 


4
LOWEST PRICES • BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROUP ANO TRAVEL FREE! 

cALL COLLE~E TOURJ 
,-ooA"' 800-395-4896 
Prk:es per person, plus laxea. PubliC Charte~ via NorthW8St Ail11o-s (A-320). Tour Op•rator Is Funquest Vacations. O.l.alls in Op/Parl Contract 
Teams would be ranked No.1 through No.8. The top team would face the eighth-ranked team, the No. 2 team would play the No. 7 team, and so on. The four quarterfinal games would be played on Christmas Eve. The semifinals would take place traditionally on New Years' Day. Finally, an undis­puted National Champion would be determined the following week on prime time television that would receive Super Bowl caliber ratings. 
Four quarterfinal games + two semifinal games + one championship game = seven total games. Therefore every bowl game would bid for the right to be one of the seven tournament bowl games (much like the Sugar. Orange, and Fiesta earned the right to be Tier 1 bowls in the current coalition). The site of the championship game would ro­tate every year, so each bowl would host the National Championship game every sev­enth year. 
One of the major complaints of a tournament is that teams would have to play in too many games each season. Under this plan, however, only four teams would play more than twelve games, which is average for teams who earn the right to compete in a bowl game. The semifinalists would play thir­teen games, which is already commonplace for teams who play in preseason games such as the Kickoff Classic. Only two teams in the entire country would have to play fourteen games(possibly fifteen if a final­ist has played a conference championship game). By this point, neither team would mind the opportunity to play one more week, especially after an extended break between the regular season and the playoff tournament. 

A National Championship Tournament for college football is inevitable. The bowl 'Coali­tion got very lucky when Ohio State choked on its enormous ego and lost to Michigan. This year a true National Champion will be determined on the foot­ball field. But what about next year... and the year after that. ..and the year after that? Fate may not deal such a help­ing hand. 
Why not reward the most exciting of all sports with the most exciting and satisfying of all championship tournaments? 
JITT60T](00: lliSTOI\!1 ,STUID6UT,S 
HIST 112, WESTERN CIVILIZATION IS NOW OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS; SEE FRESHMAN YEAR OF STUDIES FOR EXEMPTION FORM 
HIST 448, CHASING DIRT IN AMERICA, RESTRICTIONS LIFTED 

Summer lntemship Opportunities with Deloitte & Touche LLP As you prepare to leave for Winter Break, you are probably thinking ahead to summer internships. If you have an interest in opportunities at Deloitte & Touche in: • Accounting & Auditing Services • Tax Services • Computer Assurance Services (CAS) Please contact the Deloitte &Touche representative in the office of your choice for more information. Office: Contact: Phone Number: Chicago Chris Powell (312) 946-3254 Cincinnati Bill Bagley (513) 784-7189 Cleveland Maria Mueller (216) 589-1386 Denver Cindy McGinley (303) 837-3336 Detroit/ Lansing Jeff Suchomel (313) 396-3123 Grand Rapids Jerry Peterson (616) 336-7915 Indianapolis Denny Faurote (317) 464-4212 Angie Kolbas (317) 464-4258 Kansas City Jeff Suttle (816) 474-6180 Minneapolis Connie Magnuson (612) 397-4225 Nashville Kelly Swartz (Audit) (615) 259-1800 Benny Gaines (Tax) (615) 259-1873 New York Tom Madera (212) 436-2477 Oklahoma Cityffulsa Gwen Mitchell (918) 586-8854 Orange County, CA Dee Dinelly (714) 436-7185 Parsippany, NJ Mike Power (201) 631-7239 Raleigh, NC Kim Ellis (919) 546-8039 Richmond, VA Jean Martin (804) 697-1506 Saint Louis Lynn Lyons (314) 342-1864 San Francisco Elizabeth Gillis (415) 247-4397 San Jose Paula Brotherson (408) 993-4489 South Florida Bart Reid (315) 372-3126 Washington, DC Greg McElroy (202) 955-4121 All Other Offices: Mark Chain (203) 761-3334 Deloitte& ToucheLLP 0 Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu lntemational MJF!HN  


Wednesday, December 6, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• WOMEN·s BASKETBALL 


Winless Golden Eagles present opportunity for Irish 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Spnm Wrirer 
ll's not too often that South Btmd looks more welcoming in I>ceember than Hawaii. 
In fact, it's not too often South Bnnd ever looks more welcom­ing than Hawaii. 
But for the Notre Dame wonwn's basketball tt!am, life is looking a lot more promising herB in the cold than it was over there in the sun. 
The Irish return from a taxing tournament in Hawaii in which the team went 1-2 with losses to Penn State and Texas A&M to face thn noundering Golden Eagles of Marquette at the JACC this Friday night. 
The Eagles limp into South Bend with an unassuming 0-3 record so far this season, with losses to such perennial pow­erhouses as Eastern Kentucky and Boise State. For the 4-2 Irish, one has to think that this game couldn't have come along at any better time. 
"We need to come back with a win to get us back into a rhythm for the season," com­mented junior center Katryna Gaither. "We've learned from our two losses, and we're ready to pick up a few more wins." 
The Irish will be led by junior guard Beth Morgan, last week's co-Big East Player of the Week. Morgan has had the hot hand as of late, connecting for a career-high 32 points on 12-of­21 shooting in the Irish's 86-77 loss to 12th ranked Penn State last weekend. Morgan's recent sharp shooting has put her atop the Irish scoring charts with a 
23.8 points per game average. 
In addition to Morgan, Gaither has also been a huge factor for the Irish once again this season, averaging 19.5 points and 9.8 rebounds per game. 
Marquette will be led by 5'11" forward Clare Barnard, 


Daniel Stowe, Conductor December 9'\ 1995 • 6:00 &8:30p.m., Stepan Center •Admission $ztl0 
Tickets on sale at tl1e LaFortune Info Desk (ND) & Haggar College Info Desk (SMC). All proceeds benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
who is averaging 22.7 points and 11.7 rebounds per game. 
One aspect of their game which the Irish will be looking to fine tune before they get into the thick of their conference schedule is their defense. While far from problematic, the Irish defense has not been an iron curtain either, as they have yielded an average of 72.5 points per game 


The Observer/Brent Tadsen Irish guard Jeannine Augustin looks to make an entry pass during Notre Dame's win over Rutgers. She and the Irish will now face Marquette this Friday night. 

Morgan honored 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Junior Beth Morgan was named co-Big East player of the week after averaging 27 points in four games last week. 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sporrs Wrirer 



~-~iel~·= 
Restaurant 
The Place For Steaks for 19 Years 
•Serving Lunch & Dinner 
•Closed Sundays & Holidays 
•Only IS minutes from the Stadium 
•Eddy Street South to Lincolnway East,US 33 
Exit toward Mishawaka, I /2 Block North on Main Street in Downtown Mishawaka 
T.J. Laughlin, General Manager Class of 1973 
255-7737 
Call for Reseruations 

Beth Morgan, junior co-cap­tain of the Notre Dame wom­en's basketball team, was named co-Big East Player of the Week for her outstanding performances in the Big East 
·­
opener and the Kona Women's Basketball Classic. The 6-0 junior averaged 27.0 points in four games last week to lead the Irish to a 2-2 record. 
Morgan led the Irish to a 66­54 victory against Hutgers by scoring 19 points, including four of nine from the field, two three-point baskets, and nine of ten free throws. She also brought down four rebounds, tallied four assists, and made two steals. 
At the Kona Classic, Morgan averaged 29.7 points and 4.3 rebounds in three tournament games. 
In Notre Uame's first round loss to 12th-ranktld Penn State, she contributed a career high 32 points by connecting on 12 of 21 shots from the field, including three success­ful three-pointers. Against Washington, Morgan led the Irish to an 80-67 victory with a game-high 23 points. 
~~ 
~ 

Specializing in Prime Rib & Seafood 
•Serving Lunch & Dinner 
•Open Sundays at 4:00 pm 
•Overlooking the River 
•Near the New College Football Hall of Fame 
•Corner of Jefferson & Niles downtown South Bend 
John Bowman, General Manager Class of 1977 
234-9000 
Call for neseruotions 
--~--~--~----------~­
~-~----­
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
• VOllEYBAll 

Stanford the site for Pacific regional against Oral Roberts 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
If the fifteenth-ranked Notre Dame volleyball team wants to ensure a victory over Oral Hoberts on Friday night, all it has to do is call the United States Department of Immigration. 
Eight of the twelve players on the Golden Eagles roster are not United States citizens. 
Still, the 27-6 Irish are will­ing take their chances. 
The Irish play the Golden Eagles in the first game of the Pacific Regional hosted by Stanford on Friday night with hopes of advancing from the "Sweet Sixteen" round to be­come one of the "Elite Eight." 
Despite an impressive 29-2 record, the Golden Eagles have surprised many, including the Irish, by making it to the re­gionals. They pulled off upsets against both Loyola Marymount and Washington State last week and now look to upset the Irish. 
"Our first thought when I saw Oral Roberts name in the tournament was that Loyola Marymount would beat them," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "When they upset Washington State, we realized it was no fluke." 
The Irish were expecting to face Washington State in the match on Friday night, but will now readjust their game plan. 
"We were gearing up for WSU," Brown continued. "We just have to re-focus." 
In all seriousness, the fact that Oral Roberts' roster is mostly foreign could present a challenge for the Irish. Foreign players are usually older, therefore, have more experience. Five of the six starters are from different countries other than the United States, including two players who played for the Croatian National Team. 
"We think that four of their 
six starters are over 23 years old," Brown said. "They are smart, experienced, and disci­plined players." 

The Golden Eagles are led by Zvjezdana Sirola, a native of Porec, Croatia, who leads the team with 446 kills and 269. Behind Zvjezdana is another Croatian, Ksenija Kugler with 338 kills and 242 digs. Oral Roberts' setter Sibele Theis of Blurnenau, Brazil, has played in every match for the Golden Eagles and is looked to as a consistent team leader. 
Still, the Irish are confident heading into to the match and they hope that they can con­tinue to play the consistent and dominating style they have in the last few matches. 
The Irish will be looking to their outside hitters Angie Harris, Jaimie Lee, and Jenny Birkner to continue the attack on their opponents, with mid­dle blockers Jennifer Rouse and Lindsay Treadwell making a wall in the middle to make sure that the attack is not returned. 
Sophomore setter Carey May will continue to run the Irish offense with Kristina Ervin and Brett Hensel filling in any holes. Sophomore Molly McCarthy could be used as a surprise weapon late in the game. In last week's victory over Iowa State McCarthy served the Irish to game point in the third and final set before the Cyclones forced the Irish to fifteen sideouts before getting the job done. 
As Brown said entering the tournament about the team ef­fort, "We need career-best ef­forts. That doesn't necessarily mean career-best perfor­mances, but we need to go out and give the best effort we have ever given." 
Career-best efforts are what 

it is going to take to get out of 
the regionals, the point at 
which the season has ended 
the last three seasons for the 
Irish. This year, the difficulty 
will be no exception as the 
Now... turn around and wish \: 
Joel Freiburger 

a 

-· 
Happy Birthday! 
"I'm so graduatin' twice" 


Would you do this in the Backer? 



Chuch would. 
Happy Birthday From Burke, Will, Rohr and Work 
Irish join Southern Cal and defending national champion Stanford, who will play in the match before the Irish game with the Golden Eagles on Friday night. The Irish beat the USC in their second match of the season, but lost to Stanford over fall break in four games. 
-"It has been and will be diffi­cult for us to get out of the re­gional level," Brown said. "It is just another step in pursuing the goals we set for ourselves at the beginning of the season, which is the going to the Final Four." 
The team attitude is opti­mistic and persistent. 
"We are going to take each team one at a time," Birkner said. "We are just going to keep trying and trying until we get the job done." 
When asked about the possi­bility of playing Stanford, Brown felt that if the opportu­nity were to arise, the Irish would definitely be the under­dog. 
"There isn't a person in the volleyball world who would pick us to beat Stanford," Brown said. "But who knows, slran~.er things have hap­nened. 


• 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Outside hitter Jenny Birkner bumps the ball in the Irish victory over Iowa State last weekend. Along with Angie Harris and Jaimie Lee, Birker will continue the attack on Notre Dame opponents. 
THE MANAGEMENT AND STAFF OF BUILDING SERVICES WOULD LIKE TO WISH EACH MEMBER OF THE TEAM AVERY 

Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
The Observer· SPORTS 

Treadwell 
continued from page 28 
"The middle blocker position is a very demanding position," Brown said. "Height is impor­tant. but more important is the altitude of 1wver giving up. 
"Lindsay has mastered that wnll." 
Trnadwnll's teammates at­tribute both athletidsm and at­titude to her rapid success and improvmnent this season. 
"I think what that makes her a great player is her heart," ju­nior eo-eaptain Jenny Birkner said of the frnshman. "Shn has tlw altitudn that she has noth­ing to lose. so slw goes in and gives it her all." 
If Treadwell felt any pres-
Dllnce the Night Awlly on Your 2181! 
Happy 
Birthday 
Rachel 
Love, Mom, Jim, Kristina & 

sure in the role that she was asked to play, it wasn't appar­ent. Treadwell's aggressive offensive style covers any lack of confidence that she may be feeling. 
"The best thing about Lindsay is that she does what she wants," Birkner continued. "Usually freshmen are shy, but not Lindsay. She says what she thinks and does what she 
thinks is right."  
Brown  agreed  with  this  
analysis.  
"I  don't  think  she  ever  

showed that she was nervous," Brown said. "She has a very good attitude and has stepped in and made some big plays for 
us." 

Treadwell did not feel intimi­dated following such a highly­touted recruiting class. 
Instead, she felt honored. 
"I wasn't really scared to be following them, I was more honored to be playing with them," Treadwell said. 
In fact, Treadwell acknowl­edges the rest of the team as helping her to build confi­dence. 
"I have gained a lot of confi­dence because of my team­mates. I can see it in their eyes that they have faith in me." 
Brown complemented Treadwell's progress and her ability to acclimate herself to the Irish system. 
"She has progressed remark­ably," Brown said. "From the first day of practice, we said 'here's the team,' not 'here's the team and this freshman.' 
"We didn't redefine our sys­tem, Lindsay just kind of had to catch on. And that is exact­ly what she's done." 
Spring Break '96 

SPRING BREAK 7 NIGHTS: 100% LOWEST PRICE GUARANTEE! 
*Prom IA'troit, Clcvclnnd, Columbus, Imtianapoli~ 
NY, IX:/Unll, Ridunnnu

ALL-INCLUSIVE SPECIAL: 
5 Breakfasts $35 
Lil'f.IIUd
5 Lunches 
flrmdt<d5 Dinners lll.fUfl'd 7 nights beverage party 
Package Includes: Round trip airfare (Chic!KC add $20) 7 nights hotel accommodations (quads), round trip transfers from airport to hotel, Surf & Sun Tours famous welcome party, FREE pool, beach and hottest night club parties, 24 hour American staff on-site, service charges, gratuities and hotel taxes. Call for full details. This Is the best spring break deal anywhere! 
Don't be left in the cofd•••Cafl now. 
Individuals, Student organizations and Small Groups to Promote 1996 SPRING BREAK Travel Packages. Earn Substantial MONEY and FREE TRIPS. CALL THE NATION'S LEADER, INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS. 
http:/ /www.icpt.com 1-800-327-6013 
IIIT£R-GAMPUS PROQRAMS 
l_ 



SPRIN<i BREAK 
Bahamas 

Recycle 
Round Trip AirFare 

Seven mnights -lodging at choice hotel. The
We/come parry with complimentary /a/and beverage. Beach parries, FREE food, FREE drinlls and more. ·Exclusive FREE or discounted admission ro Nassau's hottest clubs. 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Head coach Debbie Brown says that Treadwell has "progressP-d remarkably" this season. Treadwell and the Irish will face Oral Roberts this Friday night in the NCAA round of 16. 
Spring Break '96 


Please 
Plus much, much, morel 
Cancun 
$449! 
1\ir from South Bend with 
'1 Niqhts Hotel. Save $200 onfr.H.lf.l & Drink Covr.rsl 

ama 
$129! 


JJAMAICA _, CANCUN 
Packages include roundtrip charter airfare, seven nights accommodations & no peak week surcharge Hurry! Prices increase December 15. 
Stop byAnthony Travel in the lower level of LaFortune or call 631-7080 for information on these and other destinations. 
Ant:hony Travel 
"the official travel service ofNo~ Dame" 
c -~·-r·,.-· r· ­
~ t.~· ~ --~~~ '-(~~
.. , -.... -.... '"'·:J·) ' ·-~' 
.t


·.IN({ IREAI(f96~ 
/~~ 

f=RM $50Q 90 8 Days/7 Nites Air, Hotel,
7 • &More... From Chicago 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT: BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS AT 1-800-875-4525 •PARTXt:; i.lltRy "J:T£!! 10:30PM·3:00AM• 
OPEN BAR AT THE BEST Q.U~S ON THE PLANET!! ... ..m NMR TOO £AriD::-~ ~PRING!•• 
Llmi"Uid Space~ Avallal?le~l 
***a~ Luco ~ r1C!ApuLe0ti1*** 
aiAtiC.HI 
),
''11..... ·..·.··.·.·
. -~ 
,.. .. ·.;. 
ROSSI 
TOURS 

Observer 

Jama1ca 
$489! 
Air fmm ~JlHI!h t\t:nd with 'I f-.!i~Jtlt< H<·!t'L Di!;!~,)llrpc.. t)ll rl)Od ~~ IJriui-(O\l'r'-1 
I ­
) 


page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December 6, 1995 

Holtz 
continued from page 28 
continues to live up to those expectations, then he is the head coach at Notre Dame for as long as he wants to coach," Wadsworth told the Chicago Tribune. 
But while Holtz, whose five­year contract ends after this season, may have the comfort of a lengthy deal in his future, the upcoming month has be­come slightly morll shaky. 

._..------.....,.,­
Junior tailback Randy Kinder, Notre Dame's leading rusher with 809 yards this season, has been suspended from the team because of university violations. 
"I can't tell you anything about it, mainly because I don't know," Holtz said. "Anything that's said has to come from the university." 
University policy is not to comment on individual cases, but it has been confirmed that Kinder is still enrolled at Notre Dame. He will definitely miss the Orange Bowl January 1 and might miss spring practice. 
Kinder, along with fellow tail-
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Tailback Randy Kinder will miss the Orange Bowl and may even miss spring practice. 
Mr. Right will soon sweep you offyour feet/ 
Happy 18th Birthday Johanna! 
• The Girls of2A 
back Robert Farmer, was in­volved in another university disciplinary case last year, when they were accused of as­sault by another Notre Dame student. They were cleared of charges. 
The junior's present situation, along with others, have caused a growing concern with the administration as to the type of 


GRAND OPENING ~ee4. NAILS 

at the Scottsdale Mall 
corner o!Taraet 

(219) 291-7433 
Happy Holiday! Happy New Nails! 
Excellent Professional Nail Care for Ladies and Geltlemen 
• 
Acrylic Nails 

• 
Silk Wrap 

• 
Fiberglass 

• 
Gel Nails 



All Work Prl~/('ssionally /)one Quality (;uarauleed Saniti:.ed E'quip1neut Used JVont' Bt'ller Anywhere 
athletes the university is re­cruiting. It was one of the points discussed with Holtz in the meeting Monday. 
"The concern is to get kids that fit with Notre Dame," Wadsworth told the Chicago Tribune. "We have a great re­cruiting coordinator now in Bob Chmiel, and as effective as Bob is, we still need some leader­
• 
Manicures 

• 
Pedicures 

• 
Nail Design 

• 
Air Brush 


ship from the coach to get the proper signals to the rest of the coaching staff." 
Notre Dame pulled in the number one recruiting class last year under Chmiel, but had to reject Florida running back James Jackson and West Virginia wide receiver Randy Moss because their grades were not acceptable. 

....-· 
A powerlul 172 hp V6 engine, ABS 5 brakes and a radically new 4-link front suspension that shatters the boundaries between front-and rear-wheel drive. The new 
Audi A4 takes precision crafting and breakthrough engineering to a level that screams to be driven. 1\)J" such unprecedented German luxury and engineering, you'd expect to pay much more. Knowing you didn't is just part ofwhat makes it incredibly Hm. Test the A4 today. Get ready for the ride ofyour life~  GOOD Aud1  
For the location of  
your nearest Audi Dealer, call 1-800-FOR-AUDI  

page 25 

Wednesday, December 6, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

•  
..  
- I I I I I I l  

~~p~ag~e-2_6____________________________________________ 
Reflect 
continued from page 28 
was going to be or maybe we can't do this because they had done so much there. Now, I realize what an unbelievable accomplishment it was. It seems a lot bigger right now than when it happened." 
After the championship win, people questioned Petrucelli as to why he was not outwardly jubilant during the post-game festivities. He, however, could not help but understand what Portland was going through. 
"I went to shake the other coach's hand and the first thing that went through my mind was how bad I felt for them," he noted. "Because we sat on that bench last year and it was an awful experience to get all the way to the end and not get it done. I'm in the mid­dle of their team (Portland) and I'm thinking to myself, 'It's an awful feeling to be them right now."' 
In addition, the win took a great weight off the sixth-year coach's shoulders. 
"It was absolute relief when we got it done," Petrucelli added. "The pressure was on for us this year. Everybody ex­pected us to at least get to the final. When we got to the final and we weren't playing Carolina, I'm sure the expecta­tions were there for us to win." 
Under this intense pressure, 
the Irish were still able to have 
some fun. 
"Everybody just enjoyed the experience," Petrucelli noted. "Things were happening at the end of the game Sunday and we were sitting on the bench joking and laughing. It was the same way Friday. They 


During a timeout in the national semifinal, Petrucelli discusses strategy with his team. 
(North Carolina) were coming down our throats and we're still kind of having fun." 
Petrucelli also had fun view­ing how his hard work eventu­ally paid off. 
"This is the year we planned for," he said. "Last year when we got to the final I felt like we were a year early. Then to go through the struggles we did was very disappointing. 
"But then to turn it around and get better and better, I'm just really proud of the effort these guys put in. This is a team with an unbelievable amount of talent that got bet­ter by the end of the year and that's why we won." 
To part with this team is to part with a team that will al­ways hold a special place in Petrucelli's heart. 

So, What Are You Wearing For The Game? 
10% off with Student ID 
2.5 miles North of state line (US 31/33) 
1912 S. 11th, Niles BELLE PLAZA 

THE ,..

687 9123 
.. 
STYLE 


CO.INC. 
M--F 10--8 Sat 10--6 Sun 12--4 

Layaway & Alternative Clothing for Women alterations available 

~~~~~~~~~~------------------------·---------~~~·e~-d~n:es:d~a-y~··~D~o:c~e-m~~b:er:6~,~·-~~-9~9~5­
"I don't want it to end," he "I just wish we could prolong added. "I wish we had prac­it somehow. It's a special tice today. I wish we had group of kids and a special something where I had more group of seniors." time to spend with them. For those seniors, the cham­Because once your last game pionship marked a long jour­comes around, that's like the ney since their freshman year. funeral for your team. You "When they came here, we don't see them that much. You were not a good team," have spring practice and all Petrucelli said. "We had a that, but it's not the same. good record, but we were not a good team. We'll miss those guys immensely. 

"By the end of the year, Julie Vogel really became a leader. Ashley (Scharff) improved so much from the beginning to the end of the year. I've said this a million times, but Michelle McCarthy is the best dribbler in the country and probably the most underrated player in the country. Ragen (Coyne) has made a great con­tribution to our program. Rosella (Guerrero) has scored as many goals as anybody. Just because she didn't score as many this year, doesn't mean her presence wasn't felt." 
As for the future, once Petrucelli completes the recruiting season. he plans to take about three weeks off before starting all over again in February. 
"We're going to come back in February and begin talking about winning again," he added. "Not winning another national championship, but winning a national champi­onship for that team. Every team is different. Next year's team will have its own goals and personality." 
For now, however, Petrucelli only wishes to sit back and think about one of the greatest moments in his soccer life. 

;-"'('J:g;/lssgf:ss~ass Spirit = l Christmas Spirit. 
:Y~JVE~SITY OF_"OI11£ ~AM!:. 

license Plate Holder ...... .$10 Cookbook ................ .$10 T-Shirt ................... ..$10 IRISH Game Hat • • • • • • • • • • • .$12
• URBAN OUTFITTERS  •COATS/jACKETS  
• VINTAGE LEVI'S  • SOCKS, TIGHTS,BELTS  
•HATS  

Give the Class of '96 Gift 
that keeps on giving! 
Class Office Hours: 
Wed. 3:30-5:00 Thurs. 2:00-4:00 


Wednesday, December 6, 1995 The Observer • TODAY 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DE.<lR S<lNtct, Tl-liS '(E.aR, PLEqSE BEctR iN MiNd ii-\Qt I: SHouLd BE PRESuMEd iNNoCENt uNtil PRoVE.N 
GuiL"tY. 

DILBERT 
YOUR EI'\Pl0'1'EE.5 HAVE REC.OI"\MEN0£.0 A \IENDOR 
WHO HAS AN ~TIRAC.TIVE 5ALE.5PER50N. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Rat trap? 28 Dress (up) 
1 --chart (horoscope) 30 National Review pieces
6 Soviet news agency 
34 Saucer, maybe 35 Dumbo features

10 Stanley and Davis, e.g. 37 Creepy 14 Wear away 38 1950's science fiction film 
15 Killer whale 
42 Public meeting

16 Sound lower 
43 Portico

than a flute 44 Dock workers'
17 Kind of thread 
grp. 18Paltered 
45Animated 19 Tenant's dances burden 
47 Domain of 20 1950's science Minerva fiction film 
48 Ancient Iranian 23 Prerevolution-49 Gets ary leader 
51 Buster Brown's 24/sraeli airline dog 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ALSo, 1 Wo\!Ld ENcouRctG'E: '(ou to iNtE:RpREt "'REqSON<lBLE douBt" CIS BRoqdl'< ct5 possiBLE.. 
BUT THE. "OOGBE.RT TE.O-\NOL06'1' COf"\P~NY" CAN PROVIDE YOU WITH 
A HARDWARE SOLUTION FOR HALF THE. C05T! 
I'LL SAVE 
MONEY! 
HAPPY BIRTifDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Be more diplvmatic with your neighbors and business associates. A new alliance will bring multiple benefits. Your cash now improves as 1996 gets underway. Let a fresh sense of purpose revitalize your career. Studying the demeanor of a well-known trial lawyer could help you develop a more confident way of speaking. Success in the art world will bring fame and fortune. Pursue romance openly, wearing your heart on your sleeve. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: TV star Dick Van Dyke, boxer Archie Moore, singer Ted Nugent, first lady Mary Todd Lincoln. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Tension could arise over political or religious issues. Keep your distance until turbulence within a group sub­sides. You and romantic partner should talk more. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An extended trip could yield valu­able information. Even slight differ­ences of opinion between co-work­ers can put a dent in productivity today. Focus on areas of agreement. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your energy and enthusiasm are contagious now! Productivity rises. Be more practical when Christmas shopping. Investigate stock tips thoroughly before investing. A psy­chological study offers insights regarding a troubled relationship. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):
SCOIT ADAMS 
Socializing with the wrong people could be your undoing. Guard your reputation. Professional advice will
WHAT IF I NEED TO 
provide a valuable new perspective.
UPGRADE. LATER? IS 
Stay in sync with your spouse or business partner. 
IT EXPENSIVE? 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Involve­ment in community affairs proves
1 MU5T H~VE. especially rewarding for seniors. However, a family or relationship
LEFT THAT 
problem has you on edge. Playing 
PRICE SHEET 
IN MY OTHER •MENU
FU~. 
) 
Notre Dame 
North 
Chinese Noodles 

Santa Claus 10 underprivileged youngsters gives you a feeling of contentment. Share the joy. 
VIR(;O (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Be careful not to push too hard when negotiating a new contract. Share your creative ideas with mate or partner. A younger person offers a terrific suggestion. The two of you make a great team! 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Romance takes a temporary back seat to career. New alliances are formed. Be careful not to make your mate jealous of a special relation­ship. Group activities are favored over one-on-one encounters tonight. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You find yourself appointed media­tor or negotiator today. Your associ­ates admire your ability to reason things out. An enterprising attitude will help you win financial backing for a special venture. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A sister or brother asks a ques­tion that reshapes your thinking on an important matter. Postpone sign­ing legal papers and contracts. Busi­ness and sentiment rarely mix well. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An excellent day to ask for per­sonal favors or apply for a loan. Jot down creative ideas before they are forgotten. Take parents -your own or someone else's-out to dinner. Share family news. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Business travel is favored. Valuable contacts can be made at a confer­ence or convention. Introduce your­self to influential people. Productivi­ty will rise when you learn to dele­gate more authority. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can talk to a friend without fear of being misunderstood. Tend to minor health problems before they become complicated. Children's expenses are sorted out. A budget revision may be necessary; seek family members' cooperation. 
South Meatloaf Eggplant Parmesan Irish Brown Potatoes 

53 1950's science fiction film 
60 Hypochon­driac's complaint 
61 Toward shelter 
62 Cardiologist's concern 63 Flightless bird 
64Gobs 
with Snow Peas Meatless Baked Ziti Parslied Potatoes 
SaintMarfs 
Roast Turkey Breast Old Fashioned Beef Stew 



65 Characteristic 
• OF INTEREST

66 Sondheim's "Sweeney--" 
· A Children's Christmas Party will be held on 
67 Revise 
Saturday, Dec. 9 from 7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. in The 
68 Harmonizes, as 
Huddle. All University afllliated families are invited to 
watch times 
this children's event, which includes Dave Rudolrs Children's Concert at 7:30p.m. There will be refresh­
DOWN 
ments and door prizes as well as an appearance by Santa. The event is sponsored by Student Activities, 
1 Make a home 
The Huddle, and the Graduatll Student Union. 
2 Mischievous 3 Actress Spelling 4 "--Fideles" 51984-88 
Life's too short.
Olympic track 
star 6 "Fare" ways 7 Domingo solo 8 Vista 9 Moving seat 
10 1942 U.S. naval victory site 11 Above, in Abensberg 12 --I'Eveque cheese 13 Author Kantor 21 Filled 22 Support for the arts 

25 Bungles 
26 In the works 
27 Noted mark 
Ieaver 29 Miss Garbo 31 Palmer, to 
friends 32 Stockbroker's 
statistic 33 Bristles 36 Making the 
most haughty sounds 39 Young fellow 
40 Rock and Roll 52 Winged pests Hall of Fame 53 Old Dodge architect 54 Piner for 
41 Suntanning site Narcissus 4& Treaty ratifier 
55 Too/house48 Dali's "The 56 Actress GarrPersistence of 57 Algerian port 
58 Auricular bar 59 Cole and Turner 50 Type of fork or 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


Leadership Conference Education Fund, Inc. ~ 
... 
' 
The Holiday Season .... we think of our families, homes filled with laughter, spending time with one another and sitting down to the table together for a holiday meal. 
DON'T LET THERE BE AN EMPTY SPACE AT SOMEONE'S TABLE. PLEASE DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE THIS HOLlOA Y SEASON. 
Sponsored by lhe Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

L_-----~­


SPORTS 

page 28 Wednesday, December 6, 1995 
• VoLLEYBAll 

Treading new waters 
Freshman 
Treadwell filling large role 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
Entering the 1995 Notre Dame volleyball season, the new recruiting class had some big shoes to fill. Last year's freshmen were deemed the second best recruiting class in the nation and produced a freshman All-American selec­tion in Angie Harris. The pres­sure was on as the Irish looked for some fresh feet to make an impact on the team. 
For Irish rookie Lindsay Treadwell, her's were the only soles for the job. 
Treadwell, the lone freshman on the team, has stepped in and made a name for herself, especially late in the season as the Irish continue to role through the NCAA tournament. The 5-10 middle blocker from Austin, Texas will start for the 27-6 Irish as they head west to the Pacific Regional for a match against Oral Roberts on Friday. 
"It was kind of weird being the only freshman on the team," Treadwell said. "There are UliUally other people who are going through the same thing you are." 
"But my teammates made me feel very welcomed." 
Treadwell's intelligent and athletic play has made her an offensive weapon for the Irish. Although for a middle blocker, her height is not especially im­pressive, Treadwell has great jumping ability and a sixth sense in following the opponent's attack. Her 11 solo blocks and 73 block assists makes her second on the team in total blocks behind 6-5 junior Jennifer Rouse, an espe­cially impressive number as she has played in only 88 of the team's total 114 games. 
"My height has always been a problem, but I really like playing middle blocker." Treadwell commented. "I get to do everything." 
Irish head coach Debbie Brown credits Treadwell with mastering the role well. 
see TREADWELL I page 23 


The Observer/Brent Tadsen Freshman Lindsay Treadwell has sucessfully stepped into the middle blocking position for the Irish this season. 
• fOOTBAll 
Holtz given lifetime extension 
By MIKE NORBUT Sports Editor 

Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz had fun this year, as was his goal. Aside from an open­ing season loss to Northwestern and a threaten­ing neck surgery, it was a sea­son loaded with a lot more than just football. 
"I wanted to have fun this season, and I did," he said. "The players have just been very enjoyable to be around." 
And it looks like the Irish coach will be having some more fun, or, at least as much as he wants to. 
Holtz met with executive vice-president Rev. E. William Beauchamp and athletic direc­tor Michael Wadsworth Monday. They reportedly shook on a deal that would al­low Holtz to coach "for as long as he wants to." 
"As long as we see eye-to­eye in terms of the responsibil­ities of the position and Coach 
see HOLTZ I page 24 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

UConn to visit in first Big East home game 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod has reiterated the same point ad nauseum in the preseason, almost as if he i.s trying to convince himself of its truth. 
"It's great to be in the Big East,"' said MacLeod fo~; the seemingly thousandth time. "This is the best thing that has ever happened to Notre Dame basketball." 
MacLeod has been perhaps the most adamant admirer of Notre Dame's decision to join the Big East, but one wonders if even his faith will be tested as the Irish host their frrst ever conference game tonight in the Joyce Center. an 8:00 p.m. tip against No. 9 Connecticut. 
After all. the difference be­tween the two squads makes Beauty and the Beast seem one and the same. 
The 4-1 Huskies are the prototype of the new Big East. They have size. speed, experi­ence, a deep bench, and a demanding press that wreaks havoc with opponents. UConn is also the two-time defending J3ig East champion. 
Although still early to make a definitive judgement, the 1-2 Irish appear to he poised to take their lumps in this first season of conference play. The first lesson was delivered on Saturday in an 86-80 overtime loss at Rutgers. There is a good chance that the second lesson will not be as kind. 
UConn's only loss came to a ranked Iowa team. The next night, the Huskies manhandled Indiana, blowing out the Hoosiers by 34. That's the same Indiana team that coast­ed past the Irish by 20. 
While the transitive property might not apply, there is indeed cause for concern in the Irish camp. Notre Dame ·has 10 more turnovers than assists this season, and the Irish are shooting a horrific 49% from the free throw line. 
Growing pains such as these are bad omens for the grueling conference season. 
"Yon have to look at Miami (which joined the Big East in 1991) as a barometer," said MacLeod. ''You look at how long it took them to win a game {the Hurricanes were 8-46 dur· ing their first three years in the conference), and you realize that you don't just walk into this conference and bowl peo­ple around.'' 
see UCONN I page 19 



Reflections on a championship 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
As the women's soccer team won their first national cham­pionship last weekend, North Carolina's Fetzer Field pro­vided the stage. 
On that stage, the Irish ful­filled their season-long goal in front of a small group of Notre Dame fans who made the trip to Chapel Hill. 
Like actresses after a splen­did performance, the Irish walked to the side of the field and acknowledged those fans. With hands interlocked, the players took a bow to the delight of their family and friends on Sunday after the 1-0 win over Portland. 
Their bows closed the cur­tain on a season that will take a special place in Notre Dame sports history. 
For head coach Chris Petrucelli, the bright No. 1 that set the campus aglow on Monday night helped him to realize this monumental feat. 
"For me, it really sunk in last night (Monday) when I was dri­ving home and I saw the No. 1 up on Grace," he said. "That showed to me what we did af­fected more people than our­selves. Obviously it was a great experience for us, but when I saw it up there it showed people knew about it and cared about it and it was 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Women's soccer head coach Chris Petrucelli embraces goalie Jen Renola after Notre Dame's 1-0 victory over North Carolina in the 
national semifinals. 

an important thing to every­body." 
With time to reflect on what assistant coaches Carla Chin and Margaret Jarc and he ac­complished during the year, Petrucelli could not help but reveal a little amazement. 
"I look back on it now and I wonder how we did it. How did we beat Carolina down there?" he added. "I never thought about that before we left. Before we left, I never thought about how difficult it 
see REFLECT I page 26 
Football • Volleyball set to face Oral Roberts 

Orange Bowl 
Men's Basketball 
see page 22 
January I, 1996 
vs. Connecticut, December 6, 8p.m. 






SPORTS 
Volleyball 

Women's Basketball 
• Morgan garners Big East honor 
vs. Oral Roberts, Decmber 8 
vs. Marquette, December 8, 8p.m. 

at a 
see page 21
vs. Valparaiso, December 17, 2 p.m. 
Hockey 

• Hockey now 4-7 in conference see page 17 
Vs. Ferris State, December 9, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 






