-~~-~-------------------------------------------------­

Wednesday, AprilS, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 116 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Asian Americans celebrated 
By MAURA McCAULEY NewsWritor 
The Asian American Association (AAA) is currently sponsoring its second annual Asian Heritage Week. 
Made up of 70 active mem­bers, the AAA founded the heritage week to educate the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's campuses on the identity, her­itage, and tradition of the Asian culture. 
"We felt that Asians as a whole were pretty invisible on campus, and we want to pro­mote a more positive image," said Trung Tu, co-president of AAA. 
The group has scheduled several speakers and activi­ties, emphasizing the educa­tion aspect. 
"We feel racism is due main­ly to ignorance. To get rid of ignorance is to educate," said Tu. "Our heritage is unique, diverse and rich. We wanted to share it with everybody." 
"The main purpose is to cre­ate awareness that there are Asian American issues that need to be addressed," said Oanh Vo, AAA co-president. 
As a prelude to Asian Heritage Week, the AAA invit­ed Le Ly Hayslip, acclaimed author of the books used as the basis for Oliver Stone's movie "Heaven and Earth." Hayslip described her own experiences in recounting the effects of the Vietnam war on the Vietnamese people. 
Tu said that Hayslip's presentation was welcomed because, in the past, the University has not offered many Vietnamese programs. 
According to Tu, the turnout 
see ASIAN/ page 4 
Intern program provides opportunities 
ND director helps in sending law grads to former Yugoslavia 
By KELLY MOORE News Writer 
Garth Meintjes, associate director of the Notre Dame Center for Civil and Human Rights, has designed an internship pro­gram that gives lawyers with a degree in International Human Rights Law an opportunity to work in the prosecution department of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. 
"This experience gives our graduates a unique opportunity to apply and enhance their theoretical knowledge and to partici­pate directly in the development of an innovative institution in international law enforcement," said Father William Lewers, professor of law and director of the center. 
The tribunal was established in 1993 by the United Nations Security Council to investigate war crimes and human rights violations associated with the conflict in what was once Yugoslavia. Judge Richard Goldstone heads the prosecution and has issued 21 indictments on a number of vio­lations, including ethnic cleansing, rape, torture, and forced castration. 
Notre Dame has already sent two interns to work with the tribunal in The Hague in Netherlands. Rodney Dixon of South Africa and Rosette Muzigo of Uganda, graduates of Notre Dame's master's program in inter­national human rights law, serve as aides in the legal services section of the tribunal prosecutor's office. 
"Both have been asked to research the relationship between international human rights law and international criminal law," said Meintjes. Interns are chosen by mern­
see INTERNS/ page 4 


Worker offers seventeen years to SMC 
Williams finds a home at Post Office 
By JESSICA ZIGMOND News Writer 
As technological advances continue to improve communi­cation around the world, stu­dents become more enthused about electronic mail. Tradi­tional letters by mail are be­coming a rarity. 
At Saint Mary's College, however, postal operator Jayne Williams is one person who remembers the impor­tance of "regular mail." Williams works hard to make sure that students receive all letters and packages on a daily basis. 
A South Bend native, Williams graduated from LaSalle High School in 1975 

cashier's position at Saint
and attended Ivy Tech for two Mary's in 1977. 

years. She then worked as a "I didn't get the job as thewaitress at "Royal's," a diner cashier, but someone in per­famous for their hamburgers, sonnel remembered my name on Lincolnway Avenue in and told me about the part­South Bend. Her training at 

time position in the mailIvy Tech encouraged her to 
room," Williams explains. She
become interested in the 

worked at that position for just under a year before she began pared to the 32-cent stamp of working full-time in the mail today. Perhaps the biggest room. change Williams has noticed 

One of the smaller changes during her 17 -year career at Williams remembers over the Saint Mary's is her schedule. years is that the price of a Originally, the post office was United States stamp was only open to students from 8 a.m. 18 cents when she started her position as a mail clerk, corn-see WILLIAMS/ page 6 


Sexual assault knowledge, prevention urged 
Editor's Note: During Sexual Assault Awareness Week, The Observer will examine various aspects of sexual assault on college campuses. This is sec­ond in a four part series addressing the problems and issues of rape and sexual assault on campus. 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
News Writer 
One of the goals of Sexual As­sault Awareness Week is to in­crease students' knowledge about all facets of the crime, from prevention to dealing with the aftermath of an assault. 
• see Sex/Power page 3 
For members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity who have been victim­ized, there are several safe, confidential resources to which students may turn. 
Two organizations in particu­lar oiTer counseling and aid for victims immediately after an attack, and for the long-term psychic healing involved with overcoming sexual assault. 
Both the University Counsel­ing Center and Sex Offense Services (S.O.S.) provide on-call individual counselors and sup­port groups for sexual assault victims. 
In the hours immediately fol­lowing an attack, both groups agree the most important thing for a victim to do is seek medi­cal attention. 
"If someone calls the counsel­ing center's emergency number there is a counselor available to talk through the person's options," says Dr. Rita Donley, assistant director of the Center. "Some people are willing to go to the hospital and some are not. What is important is for us to respect that decision. We just lay out the options. 
"When one is the victim of a sexual crime, their control has been taken away," Donley con­tinues. "We want to help the person regain their sense of control." 
Once the decision to seek medical attention has been 
SEXUAL AS.SAULT] ON CAMPUS
L

PART 2 OF 4 

made, the victim has the option of retaining the University counselor for help, or having an 
S.O.S. 
advocate meet them at St. Joseph's. 

S.O.S. 
advocates come from all walks of life: ND/SMC stu­dents, University staiT, and resi­dents of the South Bend com­munity. They go through 33 hours of initial training, as well as on-going in-services and newsletters to update in­formation as it comes up. 


On call for six hours during a shift, advocates take calls from the S.O.S. hot-line, as well as traveling to St. Joe's when an emergency arises. 
Katherine Giovannone is a ju­nior at Notre Dame who has served as an advocate this year. 
"When we go to the hospital we try to provide what ever the victim needs, from medical, le­gal or counseling concerns," Giovannone says. "Our job is to help the victim talk if they want, if they want someone to stay with them. We don't ask questions and we don't stay if they don't want us to." 
For those people seeking long-term support after an as­sault, again both organizations provide many options depend­ing upon what the student feels they need. 
"We can set the person up with an individual counselor or a group, depending on what they want," Donley said. 
Similar resources are pro­vided by S.O.S. However, ac­cording to Eslinger, "We want students to know there is an off-campus option here for them." 
S.O.S. has individual coun­selors and social workers who only deal with sexual assault, and some who specialize fur­ther into just childhood sexual abuse. There is a rape support group available at the Madison Center and an S.O.S. sponsored group that meets on campus. 
"Our on-campus group is fa­cilitated by two women who are students at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," Eslinger said. "The group is strictly confiden­tial and no information from the group will leave it without the students permission." 
The confidentiality of victims is a huge issue with both orga­nizations, given the serious and sensitive nature of the crime. 
Sister Maureen Minihane, the rectoress of Siegfried Hall and an S.O.S. advocate for three­and-a-half years, has given the issue of privacy much thought because of her role as an advo­cate and administrator. 
"Based on the experiences I have witnessed, I am impressed with the way such issues have been handled by the University," Minihane said. "However, I think there is a general feeling in the commu­nity that these charges are not handled in a caring, confiden­tial way." 
see ASSAULT/ page 6 

page2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, April 5, 1995 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
Today ND, 
tomorrow 

the world 
I never know what to say when people ask me "What's up?" Who ever really has something "up" anyway? To me, having something "up" would mean I was secretly plotting to take over the world or some­

thing. Instead of plan-Jenny Shank ning to take over the Accent Design Editor world, I'm usually trying to walk without trip--------­ping, so when asked "What's up?" I just stare blankly and reply "nothing." I guess "noth­ing" is the same reply you'd get from someone who was plotting to take over the world -if they said anything else, it wouldn't be secret. So the next time somebody asks "what's up?" I'll tell them, "Please! I'm not going to let you control of the world with me! Nice try." 
If I were to take over the world, the first thing I would do would be to make back­ground music accompany life, like in movies. Then I'd know before I opened the refrigera­tor if I'd fmd fungus growing inside. I'd know when I was about to be eaten by a shark, dinosaur, or monkey. I'd know when to hit a homerun or when a musical number was coming up. I'd also know when Mr. McFeely, the friendly neighborhood mailman was approaching, and when a psychopath was about to bludgeon me with a trout. 
Speaking of bludgeoning, I have a friend who listens to country music. She insists that ifl gave country music a "chance," I'd like it. She seems to think that repeatedly subjecting a person to something makes the person enjoy it. I don't. I don't care how often I am sub­jected to, say, electric shocks or country music, I still won't enjoy either. I wonder what would happen if my friend used this rea­soning for other personal preferences ... 
"What religion are you?" 
"I worship Satan." 
"Oh come on! You haven't given God a 
chance! Just listen to one Psalm ... you'll be 
praying the rosary before you know it! Sing 
with me... onward Christian soldier ..." 
Speaking of Satan, I think my backpack is 
one of his minions. It is inordinately large 
and heavy, so, consequently, I take out an 
average of 42.5 people a day with it. For 
instance, the other day I saw an "out of 
order" sign on a juice dispenser at the dining 
hall and had an urge to replace it with a sign 
that read "chaos"-it means about the same 
thing. I fought the urge, however, and turned 
to leave, hitting 3 or 4 people with my back­
pack, giving them black eyes and broken 
appendages. Now people bolt when they see 
me approaching with my huge backpack. At 
least, I hope it's my backpack that causes 
them to flee. At any rate, now whenever I hit 
someone, I put a notch in my backpack. I 
may give a prize to the thousandth person I 
maim... maybe a tourniquet. 
The whole thing reminds me of high school 
when freshman carried around Trapper 
Keepers the size of Toronto, smacking people 
right and left with their protruding folders. 
Their Trappers were held together by Velcro 
-fastener o'wonders. In grade school we 
used to wear Velcro shoes with pockets for 
milk money and small concealable animals. 
It's virtually impossible to open Velcro quietly. 
Even if you go slowly, a telltale RRRIP is still 
audible. I still remember trying to open my 
Velcro closure in class ...it would make that 
noise ... that horrible noise ... and everyone 
would look to see who had violated the Velcro 
union. I can still feel them ..the terrible 
stares... Well, when I take over the world, 
we'll see who's staring! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News  Accent  
Gwendolyn Norgle  Angie Kelver  
Deborah Schultz  Shannon Marie Johnston  
Sports  Krista Nannery  
Tim Sherman  Production  
Graphics  Tara Grieshop  
Tom Roland  Jackie Moser  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday oxcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Woman faces down Corpus Christi gunman 
CORPUS CHRISTI, Texas 

With her baby crying in the back­ground, the daughter of a couple shot to death by a former employee faced him down while talking to a dispatch­er and pleaded with the gunman to spare their lives. 
"We have an employee that came in and shot. ... Oh God.... He's shoot­ing, he's shooting," Lisa Marie Rossler said in a 911 tape recording released by police Tuesday. 
200 miles
"He shot my father," she said, cry­
ES
ing. "I know he shot one of the secre­
aclkm 
taries point blank." 
Police still had no motive Tuesday in the shooting Monday at the Walter Rossler Co. that left five people and the gunman dead. 
Authorities say 28-year-old James Simpson, a former employee who left the company last fall, walked into the refinery inspection company in the late afternoon and opened fire with a 9 mm semiautomatic pistol and a .32­caliber revolver. 
Between eight and 10 peopie are believed to have been inside the small office building in the northwest section of this South Texas city. The gunman shot and killed five of them before walking out the back door and turning a gun on himself. 
The victims were identified as company owner Walter Rossler and his wife, Joann, both 62; Derek Harrison, 35; 
OKLA. \.·~ 

C~rpus Christi • Dallasb:­Disgruntled ~ employee opens TEXAS \ fire, killing at least O . I 

Kohl takes part in Russain celebration 
BONN, Germany 
Chancellor Helmut Kohl has decided to travel to Moscow to mark the 50th anniversary of Germany's defeat in World War II, but he will not attend the military parade at the heart of the celebration, officials said Tuesday. President Clinton, President Francois Mitterrand of France and Prime Minister John Major of Britain have 

confirmed they will attend the Red Square parade, which Russian officials said would include soldiers who helped crush the Chechnya rebellion this year. Kohl will take part in a wreath-laying ceremony and a reception at the Kremlin, and may visit a cemetery for German soldiers killed in battle outside Moscow, said the German officials, speaking on condition of anonymity. Diplomatic strains over the planning of the May 9 ceremony and aV-E Day ceremony May 8 in Berlin reflect differences in how the war is interpreted in the countries that fought and are now attempting to find common words of prayer. 
Adoption becoming a risky business 
NEW JERSEY 
Promising love, Jim and Mary Ann Cacacie left behind pain. The couple took thousands of dollars from eager parents-to-be, vowing to deliver babies to them in months. But cribs stood empty as the Cacacies retreated into silence. "If I saw her tomorrow on the street, I would spit in her face," said Doreen Vitale, a New Jersey woman who lost $15,000 -her life savings-to the Cacacies. The adoption Donna and Anthony Greco hoped for fell through after the birth mother demanded more and more money, then changed her mind and kept the baby. Adoption has become a business, a rough and sometimes risky business. Stiff competition for babies, the lure of profits and the desperation of the childless have turned a once relatively staid process into a roller­coaster ride. Where church or public agencies once ruled, now independent adoptions via lawyers or consul­tants dominate. Couples who once waited for agencies to approve them now run ads for children. 
Wendy P. Gilmore, 41; and Richard Tomlinson, 34. Tomlinson was a top executive of the company, Gilmore a secretary and Harrison a salesman. 
Police would not reveal the gunman's movements inside the building or the order in which the victims were killed. 
The Rosslers' daughter, Lisa Marie, crawled out the back door with her baby in her arms, police said. At least one other man also escaped through the back. 
During the carnage, Rossler called police and told the 911 dispatcher taht a 
AP former employee whose name she could not remember had come into the office and started shooting. 
She said the gunman entered the room where she was on the phone and saw her holding her child. She can be heard on the tape pleading with him to spare their lives. 
"Please don't!" Rossler said three times as the baby cried. 
Capt. J.D. Brewer said investigators still don't have a motive for the rampage. It wasn't immediately known whether Simpson was fired or quit. 
"Our information is when the incident began, he didn't say anything to anybody.... Just walked in and started shooting," Brewer said. 
Simpson's parents, who live in El Paso, declined com­ment. 
Fifteen arrested at basketball game 
LOS ANGELES 
Police used rubber bullets and batons to restore order after a raucous celebration by thousands of UCLA basket­ball fans turned into a bottle-throwing melee. Fifteen people were arrested and two were injured. Officers fired 20 rounds of rubber and bean-bag bullets to dis­perse what they said were a relatively small number of the 4,000 revelers who turned violent after the Bruins clinched their first NCAA basketball championship in 20 years Monday night. "People were just throwing bottles into crowds and one guy turned around and got it right in the face and without a doubt lost all of his teeth." said Cmdr. Tim McBride. The other injury was to a police offi­cer who suffered broken ribs, authorities said. The day after the melee in tony Westwood Village, adjacent to the UCLA campus, the basketball team arrived at Los Angeles International Airport to a jubilant but peaceful welcome by about 500 fans. After a brief celebration, the players received a police escort to UCLA where they were greeted by about 200 students. They were to appear on the "Tonight Show" later in the evening. 
Secondhand smoke promotes disease 
CHICAGO 
Nonsmokers are much more susceptible to heart dam­
age from secondhand smoke than are smokers because 
their bodies haven't built up defenses against the 
onslaught of tobacco poisons, researchers say. "The car­
diovascular system adapts to insults," said Stanton 
Glantz, a professor of medicine at the University of 
California at San Francisco and an antismoking activist. 
The conclusion is not new but was drawn from the most 
complete review to date of studies on how secondhand 
smoke affects the heart and blood vessels. It also height­
ens the debate over secondhand smoke, indicating that 
even small amounts can endanger nonsmokers. "When 
you take a nonsmoker who doesn't have all this garbage 
in their body, and you put a little bit of it in, you get a big 
effect," Glantz said. ' About 4 7,000 people a year die 
from heart disease caused by secondhand smoke, and 
150,000 others suffer nonfatal heart attacks, according 
to an analysis prepared last year. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 

The Accu-Weather~ forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 5. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. Preuure ~ 
H L 6J &'SJ [!}] 0 IZl § i:) L....! U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CWUDY 
VlaAssoclat..a~ 


page 3 

Wednesday, April 5, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Drama educates about rape 
By TIM GREEN 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame student's late­night studying session is inter­rupted by her roommate burst­ing into the room in tears and a state of utter confusion. In be­tween sobs, and in halting speech, she reveals that she has just been raped by her boyfriend. 
That scene, witnessed by an audience at the Hesburgh Cen­ter Auditorium last night, was tbe first part of a presentation entitled "Sex, Power-Situations Gone Wrong," performed by the Mulberry Center Mental Health Players. 
The Mulberry Center Players are an improvisational theater troupe based in Evanston, Illi­nois. The troupe is made up of mental health professionals who dramatize mental health issues such as rape to educate and increase awareness. The performance depicted the roommate's advice to the vic­tim, an angry confrontation between the victim and the boyfriend the next day, and the reactions of the boyfriend and his visiting sister. The audi­ence was thus presented with the reactions and feelings of all who were involved. 
The performance was stopped at key points through­out by a narrator, who allowed the audience to interact directly with the action, asking ques­tions or offering suggestions to the performers, who remained "in-character." 
According to the group's mis­sion statement, this interactive method of presentation func­tions as a learning tool -not intended to impose any point of view on the audience, but seek­ing to "enhance individual self­awareness," and "generate problem solving among audi­ence participants." 
Melissa Montgomery, a ther­
apist from the Mulberry Center 
Happy 21st 
irthday Ryan! 
We are so 

roud of You!! 

Love, 
, Dad, Marc and Buck 


and performer with the troupe, spoke further about the use of interactive theater, or "socio­drama." 
"The basic method is to focus on the negative qualities within the characters," she said. "We mainly portray the extremes on either side of an issue, which spurs the audience response." 
Montgomery went on to de­scribe the composition of the Players. 
"The group consists of about 20 people trained to be 'role­players,' and we take turns traveling and performing," she said. " In the past we have done such topics as alcohol and drug abuse, peer pressure, racial tensions, and just about every­thing else." 
Dr. Wendy Settle, a psychol­
ogist with the University Coun­
seling Center, was instrumental 
in bringing the Mulberry Center 
Players to Notre Dame. 

"I saw the players perform 
last May and was instantly im­
pressed," she said. "I ap­
proached the group about com­
ing to Notre Dame. Luckily, we 
were able to include them in 
our Sexual Assault Awareness 
Week activities." 

Settle emphasized the in­
teractive nature of the perfor­
mance, saying, "Because the 
characters stay in role, the au­
dience doesn't have to hold 
back their reactions. They are 
able to respond genuinely and 
think seriously about the 
issues. This creates a very ef­
fective atmosphere for audi­
ence participation." The event 
was sponsored by the 
Counseling Center, the Campus 
Alliance for Rape Elimination, 
and other groups at both Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's. 

Johnson outlines theological frontiers 
By CISCLEY ELLIOT 
News Writer 
Outlining the four new fron­tiers that she sees changing the way people look at theolo­gy and offering her views on the relationship of gender and religion, Sister Elizabeth Johnson, CSJ, professor of the­ology at Fordham University spoke earlier this week at Notre Dame. 
As part of the Provost's Dis­tinguished Lecture series, Johnson spoke Monday on "The Theological Search for the Living God." She continued her discussion yesterday, lead­ing a forum on "Gender and Theology." 
As a sitting member on the advisory board of the National Conference of Catholic Bishops' committee on women in church and society, Johnson is a leading intellectual vision­ary in the feminist theological movement. Her publications "SHE WHO IS: The Mystery of God in Feminist Theological Discourse" and "Women, Earth, and Creator Spirit" begin to bring to the modern Church, what Johnson called "the voices of all women, who have been historically ex­cluded from theology." 
According to Johnson, "The 
collapse of classical theology 
in contemporary culture is a 
religious experience. It clears 
the finite definition of God, 
freeing new understandings 
which intensify religious awe 
and compassion." 
The new ways of looking at 
theologies, according to John­son are the suffering based theology, the woman based theology, interreligious dia­logue, and contemporary sci­ence and the ecological ethic. 
Johnson drew upon her broad personal experiences to punctuate the lectures, which she acknowledged touch on is­sues critics deem "provoca­tive." On her encounters with Indian mysticism, Johnson remarked that she found the effect "profoundly calming and religiously awakening at the same time." 
Describing the pluralistic ap­proach to Catholicism which she envisions for the Church, Johnson said that, "Christians do not have a monopoly on ei­ther truth or the divine." 
During her speech at the gender forum, Johnson ex­plained the six universal cate­gories in which women relate to the predominantly male magisterium. These aspects include reactions to the historical and social marginal­ization of women by the patri­archal theology before and after they become aware of it through the feminist response, as well as the "bodily and reli­gious" perspectives. 
Johnson concluded both lec­
tures with summaries of the 
direction she would like to see 
the "waves of renewal in 
Christology" headed. 
She said she hopes for "less 
fear of God -greater growth 

and personal responsibility 
with Jess misplaced trust in 
what God will do for us and 

more emphasis on what we 
need to do." 

Department of English Series 1995 Ward-Phillips Lectures The Book and the Body All lectures at the Hesburgh Library Auditorium  
Friday, April 7, 1995 1:30 p.m. Michael Camille University of Chicago The Book as Flesh and Fetish in Richard de Bury's Philobiblon 4:00p.m. Carolyn Dinshaw University of California, Berkeley Getting Medieval: Foucault, Gawain, and Pulp Fiction  
Saturday, April 8, 1995 11:00 a.m. Seth Lerer Stanford University The Courtly Body and Late Medieval Literary Culture 2:00p.m. Mary Carruthers New York University Reading with Attitude: Remembering the Book  

-~ ~~ ­
--------------. 
page4 Wednesday, April 5, 1995 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Asian 
versity. Tu acknowledged that AAA Dame can apply. The Tribunal Tu said he hopes that this received a substantial amount also accepts applications from presentation will promote in­of support for the week. Interns non-Notre Dame graduates. 
continued from page I 
was lower than expected; how­ever, he acknowledged that the speech was a positive step to­wards promoting peace and understanding among the United States and Vietnam. 
Asian Heritage Week began with "A Taste of Asia," which f«:atured .AI>ian cuisine and pre­sentations ranging from Tae Kwan Do to a Filipino dance. 
On Monday night, comedian Lane Nishikawa performed a ninety minute one-man show, "I Am on a Mission from Bud­dha." 
Tu said he was pleased with Nishikawa's message. "You don't often see Asian Ameri­cans in the media. Lane is a very prominent writer, actor, director. We knew his skits would be thought-provoking for Asian American issues," he said. 
Tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater, author Jocelyn lieu will give a speech entitled, "Forever a Descen­dant, Our Real Name in Amer­ica." 
Lieu is also a professor of Asian American Studies at But­ler University and Purdue Uni-creased effort to offer an Asian Studies major at Notre Dame. While Notre Dame offers a con­centration in Asian Studies, Tu feels that this concentration is insignificant considering that other universities offer Asian Studies as a major. 

As entertainment, the Asian Heritage Week is presenting Japanese cartoons in the Mont­gomery Theater on Thursday, April6. 
Winding down the heritage week, a "house party" is sched­uled for Friday night. Tu stated that the purpose of this gather­ing is to target Asian American students because, according to Tu, dorm SYR's are often geared toward Euro-American students. 
"We will be playing music generally liked by Asian Ameri­cans and non-Euro Americans," said Tu. 
The week will conclude with a faculty/student brunch on Saturday at 11 a.m. At this function, Dennis Hayashi, director of the Office of Civil Rights for the United States government, will give a motiva­tional speech. Hayashi cur­rently holds the highest posi­tion an Asian American has held in the US government. 

Though the events of the week 
continued from page 1 
totaled $15,000, Tu said that "Notre Dame is the only uni­all the money was raised versity that has approached the 
hers of the advisory council at
through sponsors, including Tribunal with an internship
the Center for Civil and Human 
$3000 from Student Affairs. program," said Meintjes. The
Rights at the Law School. 

Tu emphasized that the University plans to send six
All graduates of the master's 
events are open to students of more interns to the Hague this 
program in international
all ethnic backgrounds. year.
human rights law at Notre 





FRESHMEN: 
help coordinate next year's 
SOPHOt\ORf LITf~flQY 
ffSTIVft.. 

Pick up an application to be on the xecutive committee in the Student Union Board Office, 2nd Floor LaFortune. 
Applications due Tuesday, Aprilll. 
~~~~!!rwt!N.!.~!!g
Co-Chairman, Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games 

Diversity the Key 
Hmv Atlanta Won the Olympics 
Thursday, April 6th, 8:00p.m. Stepan Center 
Admission is free. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office and at the door. Sponsored by the Office ofStudent Affairs and the Office of Student Activities. 
This lecture was made possible through a grant from the Lilly Foundation. 
\ 
Wednesday, April 5, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
O'Connor: Women must take a stand in. the Church 
By CAROLYN LIGAS 
News Wri[er 
According to Sister Francis O'Connor, people must first understand the position of women in society in order to understand their position in the Church. 
In her lecture, "The Role of Women in the Church around the World," O'Connor summa­rized what she has learned about the Church in twenty years of travel and five years of research. 
"The Church is the Church wherever you go. It is about men for men," O'Connor said. 
O'Connor conducted an in­depth study of Bangladesh, Uganda and Brazil. Her inter­est in these foreign cultures was a response to the notion that American women are the only women who are discontent with their limited role in the Catholic Church. 
On the contrary, O'Connor said she found that women 
from all over the world are ea­ger to express their religious frustration. O'Connor compiled these women's stories in her book "Like Bread, Their Voices Rise." 
In Bangladesh, women are considered a burden to society, O'Connor said. Only 16 percent of the women are literate. Marriages are arranged, and women are taught that "a woman's heaven is under the foot of her husband," O'Connor said. In this culture where 
(WOMEN'S CAMPAIGN 1995) 
A campus wide effort to promote specific issues and concerns of women on a community, national, and international level. It is our intent to promote reflection on various topics and to take specific action relating to tl1e reflection process on these women's issues. 
UPCOMING EVENTS: 
• 
Wed., April 5th 4-5 p.m. CSC: "What is feminism?" Students, faculty, and staff will present personal and historical views on feminism. Discussion following. 

• 
Sun., April 9th NOW "Stop the Violence" Rally in D.C. Call 1-9028 if interested in attending. 

• 
Tllurs., April 20th 7:30p.m. CSC: "The International 


Condition of women" A panel discussion presented by women about their native countries. 
Sponsored by: Amnesty International and Women's Resource Center 
"there are no women-only men and their shadows," the Church is particularly exclu­sive, according to O'Connor. Women are not allowed to be Eucharistic ministers, Sunday lectors or religious students at the seminary. 
O'Connor, also, described a similar tension existing be­tween the genders in Uganda. The common philosophy, ac­cording to O'Connor, is that "it is better to have a husband who beats you than no husband at all." It is accepted that men hit their wives out of loving con-
IEngagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 
OfficiallVholesale PrULList! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 
55£. Hiuhington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Frrr 32-PaK• Color Catalog Tbii·Frrt (800) 911·0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 bturn~t Catolor lU brtp: 1/wtt.·rw.sapuk.comlsapuk. 
cern, O'Connor said. 
In Brazil, women are victims of machismo, according to O'Connor. They are dependent on men for protection and fi­nancial support. It is very clear that "women are only given the jobs that the priest and men don't want," O'Connor said. 
O'Connor said that there is hope for the future of women in the Church. "There are a lot of women who are prepared for the priesthood and are waiting for their day to come. Others are leaving. But those who stay, stay because they love the Church and want to fight to make it what Jesus intended it to be." 
O'Connor considers herself one of those people. 
"We are here and we want our place in the Church. It is a matter of justice. It is what Jesus would want for us. We don't want crumbs orr the table, we want to stand at the altar and break the bread," she said. 
Shannon 
Happy 21st Birthday. We love you! 
Mom, Dad Andy 


Andrew Young 
Will autograph copies ofhis new book: 



AWay Out ofNoWay 
Thursday, April 6th 4:30-5:00 p.m. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
"on the campus" 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, April 5, 1995 
each student's box. 
Between 11 a.m. and 12 a.m., Williams sorts packages, orga­nizes her stamps, and prepares for the busy three-hour period when students are allowed in to pick-up and/or deliver pack­ages. 
"I hand-deliver all the yellow slips to the different dorms so that I can be sure students re­ceive them," Williams explains. 
Williams is famous for giving student early morning calls, informing them about their daily packages. She is aware of the fact that students dislike her wake up calls, and she has even had a few occasions when students have hung up on her. However, Williams explains, most packages contain food items, and should not be left at the post office for a long period of time. 
When she isn't working, Williams enjoys traveling with her husband of 17 years, and looks forward this year to a July vacation to Orlando and New Orleans. Also, Williams is a member of a bowling league with her husband and enjoys competing every Friday night at Beacon Bowl in South Bend. 
As for her future plans, Williams says that she enjoys her work at Saint Mary's and would like to continue working in the same position. 
"I really enjoy talking to stu­dents and asking them about school when I am not busy," Williams says. 
But, as the end of the year approaches and students look forward to more mail and care packages for finals week, Williams may fmd her free time with students more limited, and her work schedule even busier than before. 

WilliaillS 
continued from page 1 
until 4 p.m. Today, even though the post office is not open to students until 12:30 p.m., Williams still arrives on C!lmpus at8 a.m.. and leaves at 4 p.m. "Everyone thinks that I don't start my day until 12:30, because that is the time I open my window," Williams says with a laugh. 
The truth is that Williams has a series of jobs to complete be­fore she can open her window for student hours. 
When she begins her day at 8:00, Williams first arrives at LeMans Hall where she sorts the mail for students and fac­ulty in the mail room before she delivers faculty mail to Moreau Hall and Regina Hall. She then returns to the mail room to continue sorting and brings bags of mail to the respective residence halls. There, student workers are responsible for delivering each piece of mail to 

WithoutYQU 
Campus Mffiist 
doesn't have 

aprayer! 
Students, Faculty and Staff are invited and encouraged to compose a personal prayer for a new Notre Dame campus prayer book. 
Please submit your prayer(s) with a title and with your name and address and send in by May 1, 1995 to: 
the Office of Campus Ministry. C/0 Prayer Book or "....E-Mail Address: CM. campmin.l@nd. edu 
The movies as they were meant to be: Classic films. Big screen. Bargain prices. 
Tuesday,Aprilll, 1:30 and 7:30p.m. 
James Stewart Kim Novak in Alfred Hitchcock's 
VERTIGO 
To say that Vertigo fmds Hitchcock at his most obsessive, his most perverse and his sexual best doesn't begin to convey how very haunting-or bizarre-this film is. Police detective Stewart must overcome both a nasty fear of heights and an obsession with Novak in a truly eerie tale of passion. One of Hitchcock's best. 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
Due to this conception, Stu­dent Affairs or other forms of legal prosecution is one of the most challenging options for students to choose. 
"If a student wants to contact Student Affairs about their at­tack, we will support that deci­sion all the way and provide any help need," Donley said. "However, we want to prepare the person about the process and realize that it might not be a pleasant experience." 

Donley also stresses the diffi­culty of maintaining confiden­tiality. 
"Once you start telling peo­ple, you are in less control of the situation," Donley said. "Its our job to ensure the victim feels as safe as they can throughout the process." 
Both the Counseling Center and S.O.S. stress that they are available to all members of the community, whether they are male or female, victims of an assault or concerned about someone who has been victim­ized. 
"We are available for anyone who wants to talk," Donley said. 

ments 
Will be Taken April 4th and 5th From 9 a.m. -4:30p.m. 
The Hammes 
OTR.E DAME BOOKSTOR 
"On the Campus" Open Manday-Saturday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
---------~------------------------~---------------------------------------------------------­
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 5, 1995 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notr~ Dam~, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notr~ Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John lucas Managing Editor Bwineu Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Adveriliing Manager ........................... John Poncr Virwpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Aa:ent Editor ..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Pani Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studems of the University of No<re Dame du lac and Saim Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Ace<nt Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Obsetver. Vicwpoim space is available to all membets of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 
631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839~w~/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

;,(:/"'·
• I.EnER TO THE EDITOR 
Rice, Vatican views present nawed 
GLND/SMC 
discourse 
Dear Editor: 
Charles Rice's most recent column (The Observer, April 3, 1995), in which he plays his perennial role of ultramontane gadfly, can hardly be gratifying to Patricia O'Hara and other Notre Dame administrators as they try to deal with the widespread campus sentiment in favor of official recognition 
.of GLND/SMC. Much to my amazement, I found myself agreeing with him, at least in one regard. to wit: "The Notre Dame position on GLNDISMC is fatally flawed." . 
Of course, so is Rice's position, and if he expounds the Vatican's position correctly, It appears flawed as well ~ tQ call the homosexual inclination at once innate and dered seems to deny not only the considered unallltgs social science but also t.be wisdom of the 
Professor Rice's columns evince~ ln(Jirdilrta1~e tor the pronunciamentos ofVatican. fUrllCtilomU'ieiS, that's his legal training. Most people find them '"'.., .... · tunately, however, the documents ofVati~an ·co1urte2a are neither Sacred Scripture nor infallible. \.dl.,u..,lllu. ing Is subject to reinterpret'B.Uon and does · . change, as it bas on so many issues from slavery to ing of money at interest to planetary revolution. 
GLNDISMC's demands ofthe'University ad.nllinbstrationt,ar~~1 simply a matter of jU$tice,. intellectual freedom · human rights for gay and lesbian people: ~or . students to meet openly on campus for purposes· · ·. education and encouragement hardly S(lems tadital even a Catholic university. · . 
Notre Dame claims to be the place where the "'a••··~·_.u..-.;''1 Church does its thinking. Maybe it's time fOr the thEH:ilorYJI professors of the University to put on their and think bow to unify Catholic teaching comes to the University's trea.tn:umt of gays ·. .· 
.seems as if the Administration (and possibly the.v.li.tt(!Ml could use some help. . · 
It's probably easier to modify Vatican teaching direction of justice than Professor Rice's. As for University Administration's orientation in this matter, jury is still out. 
JAMES LODWICK Graduate Student , 
• 000NESBURY  
TIM/37DP/J.Y 7Ht-8/U5, FRAN­~. 7HE3 U6HT 15 At/rltET PI3RFf3(;T!JeHINI? THATtuA9HEI?-WT COVfi(E[J 8RJC¥'Jt ... \  THf3 POIAJCJ?., TH8RAW /3N&R6Y, 7H&7HIGH5!  

• LIFE AFTER FINALS 
Taking religion to the movies 

Once again, somebody acting in the name of God is taking the concept of movie criticism a little too far. 
This time, it's the folks protest­ing the soon-to-be-released film "Priest." The movie focuses on the lives and times of five fiction­al Roman Catholic priests. Two of them ­
one gay, the other straight ­are sexu­
Paul
ally active. T h e BBC-pro­
Pearson
d u c e d movie is being dis­
tributed by Miramax, which is owned by the Walt Disney Company, the same people who brought you "Old Yeller" and "The Apple Dumpling Gang." 
Miramax originally had sched­uled to release "Priest" on Friday, April 14, which, by sheer, utter and totally unplanned coincidence (yeah, right), happens to be Good Friday. However, pressure from Catholic activists convinced them to delay the release until five days later. 
Still, people like the secular Catholic League for Religious & Civil Rights are upset that the motion picture is being released at all. The League has issued an 11page condemnation of the film, saying that it is designed "to stick it to the Catholic Church." There also has been a threat of a Disney boycott if the company does not cancel the film's release. 
If any of this sounds unfortu­nately familiar, it should. In 1988, a similar brouhaha erupt­ed over the release of "The Last Temptation of Christ," which depicted Jesus as a human being with doubts and desires (even sexual ones). The uproar was so great that many theaters refused to show it, and to this day the Blockbuster Video megachain will not stock it on its shelves. 
(To its credit, Notre Dame 

showed its moral back­bone in 1989, when it decided to ignore criti­cism and show "The L a s t Temptation of Christ" at 
the Snite Theatre. In this case, the University decided to lead by example.) 
The League and its allies seem convinced that the American public is going to base its opinion of the Catholic Church on the basis of one movie. That is about as ridiculous as it gets. Do we despise all stockbrokers because of what we saw in "Wall Street"? Do we think all Italians are gangsters because of what we saw in "Goodfellas"? 
The vast majority of the priests I know are credits to their pro­fession. They are upright, dependable and superb defend­ers of the faith. Nothing I see on the big screen is going to change that. 
Yes, it's true that priests have been getting more than their share of criticism lately, some of it deserved, some of it not. However, does the Catholic League think it's going to silence this criticism by putting pressure on filmmakers? If they put this sort of energy into trying to fig­ure out why people want to criti­cize priests, they might actually get somewhere. 
I haven't seen or read any reviews of "Priest" yet, so I can­not tell you whether it is worth your while to go see it. 
But I can tell you it's not worth a boycott. 
Paul Pearson, Notre Dame Class of'93, is aformer Observer news writer who currently works for a trilingual newspaper in Tampa, Florida. He can be reached through e-mail at ·paulp741 15@aol.com. • 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
8Yt.E/N600F£'3-WOIIJ,,UXJK. 
6QT/T! 1.13N51f5,I 7RY 7HEIMA6£70 
5/CWA/..Rt-7N?SANIJ lffHIMSHAf'C 
tr'§MIN8! otfJNMf31 70f.OMI/IIIJ:Tl3 7HE3 HIS V/'3/0N'" 
r oMJN tTl aAJNMel 5CE:N0 PeNI?ff 
\ 0 Oo
7DMYJ.t!SRES. 
HIJR/3 ames 
7H&li6HT... 
57eA!JY.•. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Iskate to where the puck 
is going to be, not to where it has been." 
-Wayne Gretsky 

~-----------------­
;ACCE-NT
page 8 Wednesday, April 5, 1995 
• BOOKS, BOOKS, BOOKS 
!7Jeslseflers 
The other side ofJimmy Carter 
By BRYCE SEKI
Hardback Fiction 
Accent Literary Critic 
JIMMY CARTER 
J
immy Carter opens us to his world in his first book of poetry, "Always a Reckoning." Not his world as the 39th 
1. The Celestine Prophecy, James 
President of the United States, but as James Earl Carter Jr., a man whose childhood memories of selling peanuts in
Redfield 
Rural Plains, Georgia, time spent overseas, and relationships 
ALW,AYS A
with family members, create the base for his very moving pieces of poetry. 
2. 
Our Game, John le Carre 

3. 
Politically Correct Bedtime Stories, 


President Carter shows us a deep and reflective side in his poems. In four chapters the former president leads us into 
James Finn Garner 
RECKONING
different elements of his life, each filled with tenderness, passion, and sincerity and presented in a simple, beautiful
4. Border Music, Robert J. Waller 
style that in one way or another will touch the soul. The first chapter, "People," deals with the interesting peo­
5. Original Sin, P.D. James 
ple President Carter has met over his lifetime. The subjects are not the politicians and other world leaders but rather those peculiar little people that have had a profound impact 

6. 
The Glass Lake, Maeve Binchy 

7. 
Kiss the Girls, James Patterson 


on him. His subjects vary from a Harley Davidson, leather donning motorcycle mama to an uncle in the second world 
8. The Bridges of Madison County, 
war. In "Miss Lillian," a poem about his mother, the president
Robert J. Waller 
conveys genuine emotion that stirs the heart. Similarly, "The Pasture Gate" deals with a young man's first experi­ence with racial discrimination. A young Jimmy and his 
9. The Cat Who Blew the Whistle, 
black friends would frolic and play everyday for hour upon hour until one day while crossing the pasture gate, the black 
Lilian Jackson Braun 
10. Rogue Warrior: Green Team, 
boys stopped. Carter writes, 
We only saw it vaguely then, 
Marcinko & Weisman 
but we were transformed at that place. 
A silent line was drawn between The final chapter is the most personal set. Each poem in friend and friend, race and race. "Private Lives" is a touching piece of art. It becomes a "Always a Reckoning" then progresses towards "Places," a 
notebook of Carter's closest personal feelings. He recalls his 
Mass Paperback 
father's first suit, his first kill on a hunt, and the serenity in boy selling peanuts on the street, to Washington where the 
poetic journey from Georgia where we encounter a young 
fishing for trout. geese fly in a "V" over the White House, to Japan where Mt. 
The collection's last section also contains Carter's finest Fuji symbolizes solidarity and strength. poem. Entitled "Rosalynn," it is a poem dedicated to his The final destination on this tour is Mexico and a poem wife. This heartwarming tribute recalls being at the movies, 
1. 
The Chamber, John Grisham 

2. 
Tom Clancy's Op Center, Tom Clancy 


sitting behind her. . . Carter recalls a visit to Mexico when, while stopping to take 
entitled "Priorities of Some Mexican Children." President 
Blind to what 
3. The Day After Tomorrow, Allan Folsom 
was on the screen, and watch the image flicker 
a photograph, three young Mexican children run up to his 
car. The experience humbles the President who writes, upon her hair. 
4. Until You, Judith McNaught 
"Get out your pocketbooks, " I said, The president writes like a schoolboy in love with a crush 
"I can guess the word. " on his special girl. With love put into words, the poet ends When they got closer, we could tell 
5. Inca Gold, Clive Cussler 
his poetic serenade with this stanza: 
With shyness gone and hair caressed with gray. pencil and paper. 
6. Daybreak, Belva Plain 
it was not dinero but, her smile still makes the birds forget to sing
7. Decider, Dick Francis 
and me to hear their song. 
The chapter "Politics" is the shortest of the four divisions. 
Its tones range from the humorous to the serious. "My First In his dedication Carter writes, "to the readers of this book, 
8. Accident, Danielle Steel 
Try For Votes" describes one incident in which President I hope will draw from them some pleasure, stimulating 
thoughts or memories to make up for my lack of erudition, 
Carter entered a billiard hall and went unrecognized by one of the locals while "Hollow Eyes, Bellies, Hearts" deals with skill, or artistry." This book of poems illustrated by his
9. Angel, Barbara Taylor Bradford 
granddaughter does not suffer from a lack of skill or artistry. Holocaust. President Carter even writes a poem about his Carter's poems are simple, at times even juvenile, but it is 
10. Embraced by the Light, Betty J. Eadie 
such topics as Tienamen Square, Apartheid, and the 
Source/ Chicago Tribune 
favorite poet, Dylan Thomas, and how he helped to get the through this style that his poetry speaks to us, touches us, Welshman's name recognized on Poet's Corner in England . puts the smile on our faces, and the ache in our hearts. 

• MUSIC 
Come out! Come out! Riverdales and Potatomen bring cub back 
By SANDY KOEHLER 
Accent Writer 
D
o the names cub, Potatomen, and Riverdales mean anything to you? If they don't yet they will soon because they are the big names of the bands coming to play at Dalloway's, the coffeehouse at St. Mary's, this Wednesday night. 
Although each band plays a different style of music, they are all very up-beat bands that promise to bring South Bend a new attitude which we all need after spending a winter in Indiana. 
The opening act will be the Riverdales from Chicago who are playing their third show. Ben Weasel, the lead singer of the Riverdales, used to be the lead in the band Screeching Weasel which made six albums together until their breakup last June. Actually, the Riverdales are the Screeching Weasels with a new guitarist. 
The Riverdales have matured in a sense with a new, added style to their music which has a lot of punk and pop influences. 
Describing the Riverdales, WVFI sta­tion manager Ted Liebler explains, "They are similar to the Ramones in their style of music. Their music is defi­nitely not core, but fast. " 
Following the Riverdales' performance the Potatomen will take the stage. 
The music style of the Potatomen can 
be described as being a combination of 
the styles of the Smiths and Hank 
Williams Jr., if such a cross is possible. 
"Their music is very happy and easy to 
~•w m~~ri!A. /' 
bounce around to because it is so up­beat," Liebler adds. 
Larry Livermore, the lead of the Potatomen, is the head of Lookout Records which carries their label. Lookout was the formal label of Green Day before the band made it big. Originating in Berkeley, California, The Potatomen started out playing on side­walks and in coffeehouses and record stores. They are gaining more exposure with their album "Now" as they tour with cub playing college campuses across the United States. 
cub, the main act, will play after the Potatomen. In September. cub played at the Loft 
as a part of the Loft series sponsored by Student Union Board. Now WVFI brings them back to South Bend to play again because of the large response that cub received at the Loft. 
Originally from Canada, cub is made up of three women: Lisa Marr on vocals and bass, Robynn lwatta on guitar, and Lisa G. on drums. Lisa has labeled their up-beat and happy style of music as "cuddle core." 
Their music definitely fits this descrip­tion. "Go Fish." a song from their first album, "Betti-Cola," has lyrics such as "Ooo Ia Ia Ia, ooo wee cha cha." And in the song "Motel 6" they sing about "hanging out at the Motel 6 just for kicks." 
It is hard not to want to bounce around and dance to their music because of their pop sound and simple lyrics. Instead of being complex and deep, their lyrics are catchy and add to the sound of their music. 
Cub has enjoyed a great deal of suc­cess as an up-and-coming band on the college scene. "Betti-Cola" spent several weeks at #1 on college stations through­out Canada and reached #2 on the CMJ import chart. The album was similarly successful in the US as it reached num­ber 84 on the CMJ college charts. 
Their second album, "Come Out, Come Out," was released in November. While "Betti-Cola" had 24 selections, this sec­ond effort has half as many tracks that run roughly 45 minutes. 
Mint Records, cub's label, describes cub's new album as "the first definitive cub album compared to the rough 'n' tumble 'Betti-Cola."' "Come Out, Come Out" shows cub's amazing growth as a band and contains the best cub songs ever released. The comfortably-packed thirteen songs including "New York City," "Ticket to Spain," and "Everything's Geometry" have a strong and thorough continuity. 
This series sponsored by WVFI, which brought Edsel and Tsunami to Dalloway's on March 20, has received a great deal of support and has been very successful because of the names that have been brought to South Bend. Tonight's performance featuring Riverdales, the Potatomen, and cub, be­gins at 8:30 

Wednesday,April5, 1995 page 9 
ACCENT 
Pickpockets and prostitutes 

Backstage comedy of "Our Country :S Good" transforms convicts into community 
By SHANNON CRUNK 
Accem Writer 
I
magine being tossed onto a ship filled with others of all ages with whom you have nothing in common save two things: you are all English convicts being thrown out of England and shipped off unwillingly to mysterious Australia. 
Also imagine English gentlemen who flaunt their wealth :-vith brightly co~ored cloaks and pompous wigs accompany­mg you on the JOUrney. In 1789, this exodus of criminals was a reality. The cast of Timberlake Wertenbaker's "Our Cbuntry's Good" will recreate this reality in Washington Hall to close the season for Notre Dame Communication and Theater. 
The separation of class that exists between the people who travel to the penal colony in 1789 is enormous and the wealthy noblemen are on their own to find a means of dealing with this division. While some desire to kill off the convicts one by one for their crime, violence seems to have heavy effects with which some of the officers, such as Harry Brewer, are not ready to deal. 
Se.cond Lieute.nant ~alph Clark takes on the task of pro­ducmg a play m whtch the convicts will be the actors. !here is one problem with this effort to end the prisoners' idleness, though. Most of the convicts are illiterate, and Clark has no resources with which to create props, cos­tumes, and a set. 
While trying to capture the character of Ralph Clark whose actual journals served as the basis fo; Wertenbaker's adaptation of the story, senior Steve Susco read Clark's words and found that this reading made the challenge even more difficult. Instead of being the good hearted, benevolent man Susco expected, Clark turned out to be "extremely complex, and sometimes having ulterior motives." 
Despite the fact that Clark was without the luxuries of modern theater, the show goes on and the convicts perse­VI)re in their performance of "The Recruiting Officer" by George Farquar. This production makes the stage the common ground upon which everyone, rich or poor upstanding or criminal, can stand. ' 
Senior Erin O'Malley, who plays outspoken convict Dabby Bryant ~ays, "The play allows bitter people to come togeth­er as fnends and also get individual feelings of self-worth. Through the play the convicts are able to transcend what is going on around them and each one brings something dif­ferent to the play," she said. 
The audience will feel this communal force of the theater 
quite strongly because of the inclusive. improvisational na­
ture of the production. Once the play begins and the actors 
?nter the stage, they rarely leave sight. When not perform­
mg center stage, they are bringing on or taking off pieces 
of the set, changing into different costumes to the right or 
left of ~he action, s~anding throughout the theater watching 
the act10n, and takmg entrances and exits all around. 
Sophomore Adam Weiler describes the effectiveness of 
The Observer/ Brandon Candura 
The force of the theater brings a motley crew together in "Our Country's Good." 
this technique which "uses the entire theater and is not restricted at all to the stage. It makes you, as an audience me~ber. awa~e of where you are."The set designed by K~vm Dreyer Ju.xtapos~s a high set of scaffolding with a ~1?e ramp, .addmg a htghly th~atrical, unrealistic appeal. 
It s suggestive rather than specific," Weiler explained. 
As Harry Brewer, the English officer who, more than anyone else feels the responsibility of the hangings of the convicts, senior Michael Kersey was forced to attempt to understand another complex personality. He describes his cha~acter as "kind of wild" and his greatest challenge in playmg the role lies in a scene "that consists of four people of which two are ghosts of people Harry has hanged. It was complicated because I am the only one who can see two of them." 
Pickpockets and prostitutes, English officers and ghosts. In "Our Country's Good" this motley crew is transformed into a community in an Australian colony through the force of the theater. The performance is filled with the tension between class and wealth, the screams of punished prison­ers, the indelible yearning to discern what is right, and, abo':e all, the enthusiasm of a collaborative ensemble pro­ductiOn. Not a bad way to spend an evening. 
Who: Notre Dame Communication and Theatre What: "Our Country's Good" Where: Washington Hall When: April 5 -April 8 at 8 p.m., April 9 at 2:30 p.m. Tickets: $7 at LaFortune Info Desk or at the door. $5 for students and senior citizens 
Growing up Brady: Barry Williams speaks 

By JENNIFER LEWIS 
Saint Mary's Assistam Editor 
Wi
en it's time to change it's time to rearrange. In the 995 ."Brady Brunch Movie" the Brady kids are stuck n a time warp. But not Barry Williams. .. Now that Wi~!i~ms, who played G~eg Brady on the original Brady Bunch, IS all grown up he IS going back to what he knows best. But this time he is taking a different approach. 
The older Williams uses his act "Growing Up Brady: 1 was a Teenage Greg" to inform students about his life, reminisce about old Brady episodes. and to have an all-around fun time. 
Ever wonder if any of the Bradys dated behind the scenes? Was it Peter and Marsha, Bobby and Cindy, or maybe even Gre~ and Ms. Bra.dy? Williams gives you the scoop on the behmd the scenes mter-Brady dating. He will also discuss the relationships of other cast members and answer the audi­ence's personal questions at the end 
Williams encourages audience participation by pulling stu­dents up ?n stage ~nd teach~ng them Brady choreography and dressmg them m authentic Brady wear. He will narrate Brady clips and there will even be a cameo appearance by Johnny Bravo. 
Before returning to his Brady gig, Williams worked consis­tently in television and musical theater. He starred in numer­ous productions including the lead in "Romance/Romance" and the title role in "Pippin" on Broadway. In addition, he has appeared in television series such as "Murder She Wrote," "Highway to Heaven," and "General Hospital." 
Who: Barry Williams (Greg Brady) Where: O'Laughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's When: Tonight, 7 p.m. 
• TOFU, TOFU, TOFU 
Why 
Nikki Taylor really bugs me... 
~t age 18, I was still wearing braces. For a while there, I was even wearing those really gross rubber bands that snapped your jaw together and made it impossible to have a coherent conversation without spitting all over your audience. 
Yup, I was the one with the toothbrush hiding in the last stall of the girls' bathroom right after lunch. I was the one who didn't leave the house without her dental floss. To this day, I still wear retainers at night-when I remem­ber. 
At age eighteen, Nikki Taylor was raking in the bucks and sporting a huge diamond on her left hand. She was cruising the catwalks of Paris, Milan, and New York, and had been for years. The closest I ever got to a catwalk was the time I got myself trapped in a Fulton Fish Market Alley. And the only thing I've ever sported on my left hand was a Swatch watch. 
Simply put, I strongly dislike Nikki Taylor. 
. She didn't even have to send in an applica­tion for the Seventeen Magazine Cover Model Search, rhe zenith of every fourteen year old female's ambition. Seventeen wanted her. They wrote feature stories about her. They did whole layouts devoted to Nikki: Nikki a~d ~er Supermodel-To·Be-Sister-Krissy, Nikki and her semi-pro-football-player hus­band, even Nikki and her mom. Given the opportunity, I'm sure they would love do a feature on her little dog too. That is, if they haven't already. 
To console myself, I've come to a few con­clusions. One, Nikki Taylor has false teeth; two, her engagement ring is fake; three, her mole is a gimmick; four, she will not age gracefully; and five, her Cover Girl contract will end any day now. This gives purpose to my days and courage to my waking hours. I don't feel so bad when I wear my retainers anymore. 
I'll admit it. I'm jealous. Plain, stinking green with envy. Who wouldn't be? 
I know what you're thinking. Maybe there's more to this story than meets the eye. Maybe Nikki Taylor isn't the goddess Vogue makes her out to be. Maybe she's got a pretty tough life. Maybe her mole really traumatized her as a child. You know what though? I'm still jealous. 
Admittedly, Nikki Taylor did a big favor to all those orthodontically challenged eighteen year old girls out there when she went out and got herself married. She even had kids-twins-of which I have just two words to say: Stretch marks. These make her more human, and hence, she is less likely to be featured on the cover of Vogue. This is a good thing. 
Of course, I'm sure a Gap ad will be next, featuring Nikki looking astonishingly ethereal with her two cherubic cherubs of cherubic perfection. They probably have rhyming names like Zoe and Chloe and godparents like David Bowie and lman. 
A music video is probably already in the works. Nikki and company will be strolling the sun splattered beaches of Key West to the accompaniment of the latest Chris Isaac tune. 
By next year, the new perfume "Nikki!" will be introduced to the shelves of KMart to cor­respond with their soon-to-be-introduced line of Nikki Taylor wear. Made in the U.S.A. of course. 
Why am I on this personal crusade against N~kki Taylor? Maybe it has something to do with the fact that at age 16, Nikki Taylor was on the cover of Cosmo with more cleavage than my Aunt Helen has. And that's a lot. 
Nikki Taylor never went on to college. For that, I'm extremely grateful. That means that although she may win in the "Most likely to do a Toyota commercial in the near future" contest, I've got a leg up on her in the brains department. And although I'll never have a Cover Girl contract, I certainly will have a diploma. 
Krista Nannery is The Observer's Accent Editor. Her columns should appear every Wednesday. ifyou're lucky. 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday April 5, 1995 
• THE MASTERS •••THE TRADITION CONTINUES
OPTION D 
Johnson 
Last season, the option attack continued from page 16 was far below Notre Dame 
Woods not awed by Augusta
standards. Predictably, it is 
son, doesn't turn 18 until 
one of the focal points of cur­
August. That may have been a By DENNE H. FREEMAN "It would be very difficult for him to win his
rent spring practices.
big part of the decision to red­Associated Press first time here but he has the gift of elasticity of
However, if yesterday's prac­
shirt him last season. youth," Faldo said Tuesday. "We'll have to see
tice session was any indication, 
"I was disappointed when I AUGUSTA, Ga. what develops. He's fun to watch." 
the problems will persist. 
found out I was being red-shirt­Nick Faldo has seen the future and it makes Masters tradition will pair Woods with defend­
The defense had its way with 
en, but l talked with coach him feel old. ing champion Jose Maria Olazabal of Spain on
the sputtering option, with 
"Tiger Woods is very talented," Faldo said.
Holtz numerous times and it Thursday.
seemingly half the plays 
was the best thing to do." "He hits the ball a helluva long way. He has "Tiger kept asking me what irons to hit on cer­
stopped in the backfield. The some serious shoulder speed. He's a nice young
Despite his youthfulness, tain holes and where to put the ball," Faldo said. 
fullback dive, one of the sta­
Johnson has goals far beyond kid and it makes you feel old to see him play." "He's trying to learn as much as he can."
ples, was most problematic. 
Woods, the 19-year-old freshman from
his years. Olazabal said Woods has the disadvantage of
Additionally, exchanges were 
"I wrote down five goals for Stanford and U.S. Amateur champion, played a no experience over the thinking man's golf
troublesome. 
practice round early this week with two-time
this year," Johnson explained. course. No amateur has finished better than 15th Masters champion Faldo over tricky Augusta
"One is to catch twenty passes since 1962. 
LIGHTS OUT 
National Golf Club. 
and another is to catch five "Experience is a great factor here," Olazabal
Sophomore-to-be Jarvis 
touchdown passes. That may Faldo, 18 years senior to Woods, was said. "He'll make a lot of mistakes because he
Edison had, by far, the most impressed particularly on the 500-yard, Par-5
be a bit high, but at least I have doesn't know the course. I'm sure he'll get to
resounding hit of the afternoon. 
something to measure my No. 15. Woods hit a downwind drive 356-yards, play it a lot more times. He's going to be a very
The free safety laid the lumber knocked a 9-iron on the green, and made his good player." 
progress by. I'd be happy if I 
on receiver Charlie Stafford 
putt for eagle. 
could just raise my perfor­
just as the pass hit Staffords level Chuck
mance to of hands, keeping the senior on 
(Stafford), Derrick, and Emmett the turf for a few moments. To 
Faldo is fit for jacket again 
(Mosley)." 
his credit, Stafford made the So would everybody else con­catch. 
nected with Irish football. ByBOBGREEN playing and seeing what I can England -"the children are in Associated Press do. school, you know," he said ­"I prepared well for this and came to the United States. 
AUGUSTA, Ga. 
one." "Better courses, better prac­Nick Faldo displayed the air It is the result of a commit­tice facilities, better weather, of Jack Nicklaus in his prime. ment he made leaving this tour­stronger competition," he said. Coming into the Masters, 
nament a year ago. After talk­And it paid off. Faldo has his game in order. ing with wife Gill and his man­Faldo, winner of five major ti­He's confident and relaxed, re­ager, John Simpson, Faldo tles, played well on the West freshed from a week off and decided to switch his playing Coast, won at Doral and was 
swinging the golf club better 
base to the United States to bet­second the following week. It than when he scored consecu­
ter his chances in the game's was a performace that prompt­tive victories at Augusta 
Masters, U.S. and British Opens ed Britain's legal bookies to National in 1989-90. and the PGA. install him as the early Masters I 
"I think all parts of my game 
favorite.
I 
are good," Faldo said Tuesday 
With his stature in the game ''I've played eight tourna­
I ' 
before a practice round for the well established, those tourna­ments. I took the week off last I first of golfs four major cham­ments were his only goal. And week because I was getting a pionships which begins three of them are in the United little tired," he said. "But I
I Thursday. "I am not working States. came out here and I stayed out on anything technical, which is So he joined the American here. I'm very pleased with the a first. I'm just going out and 
tour, left his family at home in way it has worked out." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
-I lost a set of keys sometime within ALASKA SUMMER JOBS -Very LAST CHANCEl tix to KC for Easter ADOPTION • A LOVING CHOICE the last week. Please call4-1456 if High Earnings Potential with over 4-1397 Scott Pediatrician and pediatric nurseNOTICES you found them. 6,000 openings! Students work on FOR SALE happily married for seven years are fishing vessels and in onshore can-hoping to share our love with a
I 
PERSONAL
neries. No exp. necessary. '90 red ford escort. new child. We love the outdoors, have 
I I
FORREST GUMP WANTED Male/Female. Room/Board & tires, good condition, comfortable home and country lake-CUSHING Fri/Sat 8/1030 Transportation often free. Call $4,000 634-4098 side cottage. Will provide secure, brought by SUB I NEED YOU! I NEED YOUI Student Employment Sarvices for If you watch Days of Our Lives loving home with lull time mom. Looking lor a ride to Knoxville, Directory. (206)545-4155 ext OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered everyday without fail, or know Counseling and allowable expens-Tennessee for Easter Break. If A55841 at $65,900. Arst floor location. someone who does, please call es. Call Kim or Mike at 1·600-469­Papers, resumes, your going to or through, could I Finished basement with lulllavato-631-4540 NOWII 0559 cover letters and envelopes. ride with you? Looking For Summer Housemate. ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on Call 255-4999 Call Larry at 634-3597 if you can Good Area, Less Than 5 Min. from ground level. Lease back to owner @@@@@@@@@@@@@ Hey Taco Bell Boys (AZ Jeep)­
help. Thanks. School w/ your Own Room for 175 through May, 1995. Call There will be a confidential support We were FIRSTI $$FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ + Phone. Call Joey, 269-6646. (616)94&0700. meeting for GAY, LESBIAN, 1113 Lafayette? Are you going to reed those things Female, graduate, non-smoking, BISEXUAL, and QUESTIONING call x4329 again? I think not. 2323-2342 reliable roommate for beautiful Beautiful '90 Acura Integra LS students on Thurs. at 7:30 pm. Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard apartment with low rent (ex FOR RENT Coupe Ssp Champagne-Silver,AC Call the Q-Line for more information Joe is on my mind. 
Studebaker guest house) for power sunroof,spoiler, 55k miles 267-6665. ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK· Summer 95 and year 95-96. Call Female housemates needed $9200, '94 NO Grad In Chicago, @@@@@@@@@@@@@ X-RAY ROGER JIMMY LIVE AT FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL 634-4403. to sublet for summer mos. must sell, but hate to part. Call CORBY'S APR. 1 & CLUB 23 "OBSERVER" RATE $501$60, and maybe share lease (312) 661-7278 Looking for undergraduate with APRIL 8. SHOW STARTS AT 10. FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME-for 95-96 school year. Mostly solid medical background to write SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA· Ride to Duke for Easter. Call funished apt. at College Park. Need furniture for next year? 4 bi-weekly column for Accent. EASTER BREAK-ATLANTA NEE, 219-773-2034. Carolyn at 272-7067. 272-1536 seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of Please call631-4540 AREAl! I NEED a ride, call4-4805,
,.,­NICE furniture! Call for details: Jen
....................
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES, COLLEGE PARK CONDO: 277-7597 
GIFTS. 256-6657 Leaving town? For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished SOPHOMORES... To the cast of Our Country's Good: Responsible professional 40-ish unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st. LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER! Come celebrate SPRING and deco-"I want to say what a pleasure it has man employed in downtown South Call: (616)441-1275 After 3 kids, I lost 23 lbs., went from rate EASTER EGGS with kids from been to work with you. You are on
ILOST & FOUND I Bend looking to house sit for 3 size 9 to a 3 in 6 weeks, w/o St. Margaret's. WEDNESDAY, your own tonight and you must do 
months to one year. Let me ensure *•********NOTICE*****••••••••• diets/drugs/exercise. All-natural APRIL 5, during lunch. your utmost to provide the large Lost: Tear-drop multi-stoned that your home is properly tended If you are interested in living at products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly Transportation will leave at 11:45 <!Udienca out there with a pieasur­bracelet at Bridget's the Thursday while you're away. My current Turtle Creek next year, call Chris 1-60Q-209·2150 and 12:45, so you can stay for an able, intelligible and memorable before Spring Break-PLEASE home is being redone. Live alone. at 273-1399 as soon as possible. hour or two. It's a great service evening." CALL IF FOUND! Ill x3842 ask for Have impeccable professional and project and promises to be a lot of "You're onl" Klltie personal references. Lifelong Rent NOW for Fail Semester -com-OFF CAMPUS NXT. YR? fun. Call Brian x1 056 or Sean Love, 
Michiana resident. Cali (616) 699-pleteiy remodeled home in great FOR SALE-QN. SIZE SET x4006, or just show up. Trust us... Kay Helplll A bookbag containing a 5993. student neighborhood. Available to W/FRAME, 3 DRESSERS, SOFA, •••••••you WILL HAVE FUN......
.........................
written senior thesis and five books 5 students -5 private bedrooms, 2 COMP. DESK, DORM FRIDGE, Hey Everybody, essential for its completion were full baths, washer and dryer, large COFFEE/END TABLES, GAS I STILL NEED YOU! Ya missed it last week· stolen from an unlocked car at seeking a ride to Nashville for rec room. Your own personal frat GRILL, MORE CALL CHRIS @ Larry is still looking for a ride to Action spread em REAL WIDE Turtle Creek early Sunday morning easter brk. call patrick X4050 house CALL NOW 277 ..()636 273-2070 Tennessee for Easter Break. for her birthday!! after 3:30 A.M. If anyone knows Knoxville is ideal, Nashville is anything, saw anything, or has the ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY· HOMES FOR RENT For Sale: acceptable. If you are going any-I need a ride to and from bag, call me at 273-6567 so I can MENTI EARN THOUSANDS THIS NEAR CAMPUS '64 red cavalier where near those cities this break, DAYTON (or CINCINATTI) area get it back. No questions asked. I SUMMER IN CANNERIES, 232-2595 93,000 miles please call Larry at 634-3597. Will for Easter. Will pay gas and toils. just want to graduate on time. Four PROCESSORS, ETC. minty share gas, toils, expenses. Can be dropped off anywhere years is enough. MALE/FEMALE. 2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3 call Mike 277-2631 with best offer in the vicinity. Call Angela x4719. 
ROOM/BOARDrrRAVEL OFTEN BDRM. NEXT FALL, NEAR CAM-WOMEN'S CAMPAIGN 1995 PLEASE 0 PLEASE 0 PLEASE PROVIDED! GUIDE. GUARAN-PUS.272-6306 Mac.Pwrbk.$1 kobo 264-5256 A campus-wide effort to promote The Observer is a lacrosse hotbed, please return the blue suede coat TEED SUCCESS! (919)929-4396 specific issues and concerns of but who has the longest stick? 
•accidentally" taken from the Junior ext A1062 HOUSE FOR 4 STUDENTS '66 FORD TEMPO, 57k, $2,000 women on a community, national, Class Bash at Union Station on (PREF. GRAD., SAME GENDER). OR B/0. 631-7119. and international level. To the girl who can't funnel, Friday, March 31. You don't want it AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN NEAFI CAMPUS. SECURITY SYS-What a loser! Just kidding. I can't because it has holes in the pockets BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL TEM. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD. TODAY! Wed, April 5, 4-5pm at talk because I have less places to
TICKETS
and the lining is ail shredded. It's (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, FREE SUMMER STORAGE. CSC: "WHAT IS FEMINISM?" name. my only real coati! I ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO AVAIL. Students, faculty, and staff will pre-Call Isabelle x4717 to schedule its EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929-AUG.-MAY. CALL 233-5696 OR Need 2 grad tix for step-parents sent personal and historical views M-What did you say you have in return. 4396 ext. C1062. 233-6444. Tanja 277-6594 on feminism. your pocket? 
~ ~-~----·~-­
-----~ 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 5, 1995 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME WELCOMES TO CAMPUS 
HELEN SUZMAN 
Meinber of Parliainent Strong Opponent of Apartheid System for 40 Years THE 1994 RECIPIENT OF THE NOTRE DAME AWARD 
Wednesday, April 5, Stepan Center, 7:30 p.m. 
•
Prayer Service Notre Dame Foll~ Choir Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble 

•
Presentation of the Award by Father Edward Malloy 

•
Acceptance of the Award 


by Mrs. Helen Suzman •Reception 
All members of the Notre Dame Community are welcome to attend. 
pjtge 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday April 5, 1995 
• CLUB SPORTS REVIEW 
Women's lacrosse stretches streak to five, sailors set for Nationals 
By MEGAN McGRATH  out an 11-7 victory.  Reilly  SAILING  
Sports Writer  paced the squad with four  Brien Fox, the leader of the  
The women's club lacrosse team extended its unbeaten steak to five games with three victories at Indiana University last Sunday. The Irish (5-1-1) opened the day with a 14-5 pasting of Ohio University. Sophomore Tara Pierce led the way on offense, scoring four goals. Freshman attack wing Colleen Reilly scored three times.  goals, and wing-mate Holly Michael came on strong against the Redskins, scoring twice. The long day in Bloomington closed with a 12-5 win over the host Hooisers. The Irish jumped out to a quick 7-1 lead, thanks to three goals by Reilly and two each by Michael and Pierce. Throughout the day, senior Julie Mayglothing was a force. From her defensive wing posi­ Sailing Team, is rounding up his skippers and setting sail for another voyage to Nationals this season. ''I'm really excited for this season. We've got a great board and several new skippers who are dedicated and ready to encounter yet another success­ful season," said Fox, who is also known as the Commodore. The sailing team's season be­ 
Miami of Ohio was next, and  tion she anchored the defense,  gan two weeks ago when they  
after battling much of the way  and was able to contribute two  hosted the "Fresh Icebreaker  
Notre Dame was able to pull  goals on offense.  


For the 1995-96 Academic Year 
Hours/Commitment Approx. 12 hours per week Plus participation in reflection, academic meetings 
Center Interns will receive academic credit in one of various departments, and receive a scholarship 
Internships Require • Experience 
• 
Initiative 

• 
Creativity 


Applications Available Thursday, April 6th 
Applications Due Tuesday, April 18th, 1995 
Areas of Focus for Center Internships • Multicultural Concerns 
• 
Education/Youth 

• 
Communication 

• 
Educational Programming 

• 
New Initiatives and Outreach 

• 
Adult Services 


For Further Information, Contact Kathy Royer 631-5293 Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 
Regatta." Fox was impressed with the team's performance in the regatta due to the success of several beginner skippers. 
Last weekend, the team com­peted at the University of Chicago's regatta in which they finished second and third indi­vidually. The team's captain Bridget Murray finished sec­ond, while Fox took third. 
This week the team is prepar­ing for a big regatta at Miami of Ohio on Saturday. 
"The big event takes place over Easter weekend at the area eliminations. Hopefully, we will do well and qualify for the Midwest Championships on April 28-29," said Fox. 
Happy llst Birthday Julie, Laurel &Carrie 
Love, Lisa Meredith 


TRAN.SFER ORIENTATION 1995 
Now accepting applications for the EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
Applications available in the Student 
Government Office, (2nd Floor Lafortune). 
All applications must be returned by Friday, 
April 7th by 4:00 p.m. 
Questions ? Call Mike 4 x 4332 


• Pepperoni Pizza • Ham & Cheese  • Sausage & Pepperoni Pizza Deluxe  
• Turkey & Ham with Cheese  • Turkey, Broccoli & Cheese  
• Beef & Cheddar  • Chicken Fajita  
I  IMFG. COUPON I EXPIRES JULY 31, 19951  
!Save $l.OO~No  
1when you buy any 2 packages of I Hot Pockets® or Lean Pockets®  
(any combination)  

I This coupoo good only on purchase of product indicated. An>J other use constiMes 
I :.1;..,~~~~~\::.;.~~~:;'=c~~;:'su~ I ~~~"':.::,:0-=~~klbyonJ!~c!Z.!::~~L!'=c::-=":.c:.o:":':=s~.:::~·!:,R!.TX,:O,;. -5------...! _J 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 5, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• CLUB SPORTS REVIEW 
First tournament victory for women, crew served by youth 
By MIKE NORBUT But the second game proved to be a CREW ing up in third. Spons Ediwr bit of a harder test for Notre Dame. Last week at the Northwestern "It was a good first meet to get some 
Notre Dame fought to a 13-13 regula­
Regatta, the crew team got a preview of experience in," women's captain Karen 
They were only two wins, but they tion tie with the tournament's host, 
things to come as both men's and Wallace said. 
were legendary. Bowling Green, in the championship 
women's novice teams placed first. With the season now underway, the
The women's squad of the Notre match. Three sudden-death overtime 
The men's other boat in the novice Irish look to improve upon their results
Dame water polo team went 2-0 over periods later, freshman Katie McCoyd 
race also took second at Evanston. this weekend as they host their home
the weekend to capture their first tour­tossed in the game-winner to give the 
"The novice team is improving through regatta. The regatta will take place this 
nament victory in the squad's short his­Irish the victory. 
their hard work and dedication," sopho­Saturday on St. Joe's River throughout
tory. "It was a great team effort on the 
more Steve Fischer said. the day. 
But it wasn't the fact that the squad whole," women's captain Mary Sundy defeated Bowling Green and Ohio said. "It's amazing that, after just three The teams that the Irish were compet­Many of the same teams Notre Dame University that made their champi­months of working hard together, we ing against included the Wildcats, Drake, saw last weekend will compete including onship historic. It was the style in can gel so well and win a tournament." and Marquette. Northwestern and Marquette. Grand which they did it. The men's squad will be heading to Against these tough squads, the varsity Valley State and St. John's will also The Irish let a five-goal effort from Southern Illinois this weekend for the also posted some strong results as the make the trip to South Bend to take part
sophomore Michele Lichtenberger Salukis' annual spring tournament, fea­
men's light four boat finished first. in the regatta. 
carry them in the first match, as they turing an eight-team, two bracket sys­
On the women's side, the Irish's light -JOE VJLUNSKI 
cruised past Ohio University 8-4. tem. 
-... TAKING THE June LSAT? 
Come Take A FREE Practice Test And Attend An Informational Seminar 
• Take a full length. proctored LSAT llltatn. 
Thesd8y. April 11th at 7;00pm 

-:;:::} 
• 
Receive a detailed score report that pinpoints out teat.uldng Sttqth$ and weaknesses. .ii:f; ;:;;;.':·,., ,..,; 

• 
Learn about the format and content of the LSAT, how it's used in the admissions process and valuable test-taking techniques that can help raise your LSAT scores. 


THE ~ 
PRINCETON = 
REVIEW _ 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or ETS. 
four took second with the open four end-
PIZZA· PIZZA· PIZZA· PIZZA 
SENIORS!! 
LAST Free Food Night 
TONIGHT 
@Alumni Senior Club 7PM 
BE THERE..... 
PIZZA· PIZZA· PIZZA· PIZZA 
SO WHAT DOES STUDENT GOVERNMENT DO ANYWAY? 
BOOK J?i\IR
CAMPUS IMP 0 EME T 
HELP OVERHAUL WVFI
STUDENT' RIGHTS 
AWAY FOOTBALL TICKETS FRESHMAN ORIENTAION TRANSFf R OR ff NT AT f0N NO fMt REI.IITIONf NIJ OlJI~TE~~~v~T coMMENTs CIGARETTE MACHINE ON CAMPUS CAMPUSBBQ
WC)M[N'S c-~,C-)NC-~EI:~N5) MINORTIYCONCERNS 
PLENTY! 
TAKE YOUR PICK FROM THESE EXCITING ACTIVITIES! WE INVITE YOU TO GET INVOLVED. 
FREE FOOD! 
ENTERTAINMENT!
OPEN HOUSE: 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT OFFICE,,, 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday April 5, 1995 
Gymnasts prepare for big weekend, Rugby coming off one 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Next week the women's gym­nastics team will travel to Virginia Tech in order to com­pete for the first time ever in the Women's Nationals. So far, the team has placed second in three of their meets, and third in the other. 
About fifteen women makeup the team, along with around seven men. The men's team, made up of mostly beginners, has also achieved mentionable success this season. 
Major Payne (PG13) 4:30,6:45,9:15 Tommy Boy (PG13) 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 Man of the House (PG) 4:45, 7:15, 9:30 
The team hosted the Corva Classic on March 4 in Angela 
The " 
Athletic Facility, in which the women placed second and the men placed an amazing third. 
''I'm really looking forward to Nationals, because I think we'll accomplish great things there," said the team coordina­tor Kara Ratiff. 
New members are always welcomed. If interested, contact Kara at x4694. 

oOIIIIII( c FEATURING CHICAGO'S ~TE~~ ,WAREHO~~; RECORDING ARTIST 
Pattllj' f.t-I"Mtllf 
SPECIAL GUEST: FROM BIUY IDOL'S BAND 
Tal Bergman 
DEFENDING DEATH ROW INMATES IN THE 90'S (~LIVE STA.FF'OH.D SMI'I'FI DIRECTOI~, 
LOUISIANA CRISIS ASSISTANCE CENTIJ:R 3:30 P.M. FRIDAY, APRIL 7, 1995 COURTROOM NOTRE DAME LAW SCI·IOOL 
In coopc•·ation with Notrt~ Dame Law School & National Coalition to Abolish the Death 1•cnalty 
... 
VARSITY SHOP 
.... 
RUGBY ry. 
The rugby team enjoyed suc­The next competition for the cess at Purdue, fielding an A rugby club will be Saturday at side victory of 22-16, a 17-15 1:30 p.m at Stepan Fields B side win, and a 20-10 C side against Lake County, a men's triumph. club from the Chicago area. 
Martin Boscarino and Mike Matt Meko expects a tough, McEvilly powered the A team, hard hitting match. as both scored goals. McEvilly Everyone is invited to attend commented on his perfor­the match, and the team still mance, "I'm in what we rugby needs more players. Anyone players call 'the zone."' interested in playing is wel­
Kevin Machon and Dan come to go to 4:15 practice . Adams led the B team to victo--BJHOOD 
BRUNO'S 
N 0 R T H 
On US 31 North of Cleveland 273-3890 
1m1 
(ZMPUSMINISTRY 
MARRIAGE ENRICHMENT DAY 
SATURDAY APRIL 29; 9:30-4:00 P.M. FATIMA RETREAT HOUSE NOTRE DAME 
For: Married Couples of the Notre Dame Community 
Facilitators: Andrew and Terri Lyke of the Chicago Archdiocese 
Format: Presentations, group sharing, quiet couple time ... 
Topics: Communication, Conflict Resolution, Sexuality, Children ..... 
LUNCH PROVIDED 
(No fee required, but you must call John or Sylvia Dillon at the Office of Campus Ministry by April 7 if you wish to attend; 631-5242) 
~ ~ 
SEBA 
SEBA 
SIEBd 
'!;EBA 
Wednesday, April 5, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
MIKE PETERS 


CALVIN AND HOBBES 

DILBERT 
I WANT TO ASSURE YOU THAT ANY 
YOU'VE 1-\ EARD ARE. 
FALSE. 
WE. ARE.~ PLANNING ~ TO RE.LOCAT£. Tf.\E COMPANY ~ TO HIE 60UT~ POLE. WI-\ERE ~­E/\SILY TRMNABLE ~ NATIVE ESKIMOS WILL i
., 
RE. f'LAC.E YOU. 
\ 
BILL WATTERSON 
L8'S 1-\01'£ B\lMBUNG ALOf\\G 
't.llll-\OUT A Cl\JE. 
IS IMR:lRT!I.NT. 
~___,/_-----1 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THAT~ GOOD BECAUSE 
THERE A~E~'T I>.NY 
E5KIM05 AT THE. SOUTH 
POLE.  
I  EX.CUS£ Mt1 I \-\AVE. TO 1-\I>.KE  
A Pf\ONE. CALL.  
~  


43 College setting 50 Got a noseful 
44 Dukas opera 52 Needing rain "-et 
53 Discovery grp. 
Barbe-Bieue" 45 Annoys 54 March time 49 "Glengarry Glen 57 Song syllable Ross" dramatist 59 Disfigure 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
26 Honey 
28Single 
29\talian cheese 
city 30 Sprite 35 Supplement, 
with "out" 36 Haunted 37 Facing 38 Psychological 
problems 39 Unconditional 
Q: Why do you drink? 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
4-5 

"Our Idiot veterinarian sold that the cat has a serious tartar problem and recommended that I try flossing her teeth I" 
t''"GI a ism and Its Discontents: Modernity and Post Modernity in a Fragmented World" is the topic of aAecture by Majid Tehraninan at 4:15 p.m. at -Hesburgp Center Auditorium. Tebraninan is the \J>l'QfessQr<at,_t}ja University of Hawaii at Manoa . 
.Medi~~~;dvlce In Spanish: Dr. Juan Garcia will give a forum on awareness and prevention of breast, prostate, and lung cancer today from 7·9 p.m., in Cushing Auditorium. Free parking will be offered at 
. tl)e stadium for this event. 
....:_..,...... ,. · ,···{h=: ·.\:.:xf.( 
. Hospitality luncheon Thursday, April 6, at the CSC from 11:30·1:30 p.m .. sponsored by Amnesty International. 
:~eniors, what next? Maybe Colorado! You can stop worryi,ng about ne~t year, Colorado Vincentian Volunteers(CVV) in Denver, has openings for August of '95. CVV ~$looking for men and women interested in a year of volunteer service among the poor and marginali~ed. CVV is in it's inaugural year. offering JJ!Placeme.q~ in inner city schools, social services, health l(~e,]to~~l~,~s services, food banks, literacy pro· g~:~, W9~tfh's issues, and more. You receive trans· · por~tion to ~enver. room and board, health insur· ance, a. stipend, local transportation, retreats, and a tremendo"(lS opportunity to serve others. Today from 
', 2:30 pm~s~oo pm at the Center for Social Concerns. C~ Bill Jaster at 1~800~413-8778 for more into. 
SOUI'H . Chili Crispitos Turkey Noodle Casserole Cream of Broccoli 
Rotissere Chicken Beef Burgandy Zucchini · 

-. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Patagonian plains 
7 Background setting for 7-Down 
15 Jay's home 1& Burn soother 17 Abate 18 Least 19 Surgery spots: 
Abbr. 20 Buyer's bottom 
line 22 Animal doc 23 Friend to Fido, 
for short 25 Contented comments 2& Take lunch 
27 Stead 28 Supermarket 
tabloid subject 29 Stripped 31 Oodles 32 Diarist Anafs 33 In imitation of 34 Best Picture of 
1954 40 White House 
nickname 41 Haw's partner 42 Rapier 43 Traveled like 
Hiawatha 4& Time 
remembered 47Stimulus 481reland's-
Islands 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

~;:+:::.+-;+=:;-B.;.~~~-=-~.;;..;=:+=-<~~ 

49 Hosp. diagnostic 50 Kind of warning 51 Cold war flier 52 Angels' home 55 Our sun 56 Deli offering 58 End 60 Still in bed 61 Overjoys 62 Make wedding plans &3 Fast-lane malady 
DOWN 
1 City near San Francisco 2Antipathy 3 Squandered 4-dedeux 5 Sphere &Since, in Scotland 71941 Lillian Helfman play aLower-priced spreads 9Agile deer 
10 Fast time 11 Twice CCLIII 12 Destructive 
beetle 13 Lupin of 
mysteries 14 Told (on) 21 Cheap rum 24 Banquette item 
A: I drink because it loosens me up, and I'm more outgoing. 

TRY BEING YOURSELF. You (AND OTHERS) MIGHT ACTUALLY LIKE IT! Sponsored by The Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
• ! 


Football '9) 
This up-coming season, that will change as Malcolm Johnson will be pre­sented with a solid chance to break into the Irish receiver rotation. 
"Right now, I just want a role," Johnson said after practice Tuesday. "I feel we can go five deep and I want to be a part of that." 
As far as starting goes, Johnson real­izes the fact that he has not played a single down of college football may hin­der him, but he is also cognizant of the experience he has already gained. 
"Last year. going against BT (Bobby Taylor) was very helpful, as well as see­ing Derrick (Mayes) every day," Johnson stated. "I don't think there is a DB out there who can stop me, but I still have work to do." 
nate. Now, he just needs the tools. 
''I've only dropped one pass this year in five practices," Johnson, a Washington, D.C.. native noted. "Last year, that total was far higher. There is still room for improvement, but with each practice, I feel I'm taking a step toward where I want to be." 
While improving his receiving skills, Johnson is hard at work on his speed and strength. 
''I've been in the weight room trying to pick up a few pounds and I know this summer the main thing is to get my 40 (yard dash) time down." 
Johnson, who was redshirted last sea-
see JOHNSON I page 10 
i • 
• BASEBAll 
Notre Dame to battle Chicago State, weather 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame baseball feam is hoping yesterday's early morning snow flurries and bitter cold which led to the post­ponement of their game against Indiana State are a thing of the past as they look to bat­tle Chicago State (7-11) today. 
Again, Irish will be watching the skies nervously as the Michiana weather forecast for 
Wednesday, April 5 NO Baseball vs. Chicago State ?p.m. NO Women's Tennis at Wisconsin 2:30p.m. SMC Softball vs. Hope College 3:30p.m. 
today calls for lows in the twenties and evening snow flurries. 
"Hopefully, we will be able to get into a routine in which we're playing every day," said head coach Paul Mainieri. "I really don't know that much about Chicago State, but if we play our game we won't have to worry about the other team. If we play up to our ability, I think we'll do alright." 
Sophomore Gregg Henebry will get the start today. Henebry earned his first win of the season last week by beating Cincinnati 5-4. 
Today's game against is scheduled for a 7 p.m. start at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Thursday, April 6 NO Baseball at Bowling Green 5p.m. NO Women's Tennis at Northwestern 3p.m. SMC Tennis vs. Hope College 3p.m. 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Regional run set for Irish 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The stretch run toward the NCAA tournament begins in earnest for the 15th ranked Notre Dame women's tennis team today, as the Irish travel to Madison to face the Wisconsin Badgers at 2:30. 
This trip marks the second time this season that the club treked up to UW, as the first trip marked the National Indoor Championships. However. this trip carries even more significance as it is Notre Dame's fourth regional match. The Irish are undfeated thus far, as they make their bid for the automatic Midwest Regional berth in the tournament. Indiana, who the Irish face on April 23, looks to be the main competition, but the Irish cannot overlook the Badgers. 
"Every regional team we face is very impor­tant," junior Holyn Lord noted. "We'd like to win the rest of our regional games and assure our­selves of a bid." 
Tommorrow, Lord and the Irish will be in a very similar situation, as they are slated to chal-
Saturday, April 8 NO Baseball vs. Wisconsin­
Friday, April 7 NO Softball vs. Wisconsin-Green 
Milwaukee Sp.m. (thru Sunday) 
Bay lp.m. ND Track at The Dogwood 
SMC Track at Little State Meet at Invitational (thru Saturday) 
IUPU-1 SMC Softball at Olivet College lp.m. 

Kelley Olson and the Irish are set to begin a key run of regional matches 
lenge the Wildcats of Northwestern in Evanston, Ill. Both squads, members of the Big Ten, should present a tough test for the Irish. 
"The Big Ten, even though it is in the north, is some very good tennis," Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 





