
r r r 
, '.I I\'
'''
r1 
\I I I I I I I\\ • 

Friday, October 13, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No. 40 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Glee Club pays visit to Regis and Kathie Lee 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
The Glee Club has a rendezvous with Regis Philbin and Kathie Lee Gifford on national television early next week. 
Notre Dame's all-male singing ensemble will be performing on the pair's television show, Live! With Regis and Kathie Lee, this Monday as part of its week-long tour of the east eoast during fall break. 
Plans for the appearance have been in the works since the club began scheduling the tour last spring, but club members did not mceive final word that the appearance would actually happen unti1 yesterday afternoon. 
"Everybody's excited," said Trent Bell, a club member. "It's big-time TV, so it should be a lot of fun." 
The club plans to sing Larry Farrow's "Deep River" while on the show, but Jim Crowe, president of the club, expects that Philbin, a Notre Dame alumnus, will call upon the group to sing a couple of Notre Dame light songs while on the set. 
The television appearance is just one of eight stops on the tour, organized in part by Kaipo Punahele, business manager for the club. 
Punahele and Notre Dame Public Relations Director Denny Moore were instrumental in organizing the appearance on Regis and Kathie Lee. 
Among its stops, the club's 47 males plan to visit East Rutherford, N.J., to sing the nation­al anthem prior to kickoff of the Notre Dame­Army football game on Saturday, and will also perform from the steps of the Capitol building in Washington, D.C., on Wednesday. 
The performances are sponsored by the alumni clubs of each city visited by the ensemble, and the Notre Dame Alumni Association is paying for the club's airfare to fly out east to begin their tour. 
The club will travel by bus to each destina­tion thereafter, as well as on its return trip to South Bend next Friday. 

Class times face possible revision 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Writer 
Every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, many unfortunate Notre Dame students are faced with the impossibility of rolling out of bed in time to sprint to their 8 a.m. class. 
Help may be on its way. In April 1995, Dr. Harold Pace, University registrar, addressed the Academic Council regarding his proposed changes to class times. 
Among the points mentioned was the postponement of the earliest class to 8:30 a.m. Cur­rently, an average of only 40 classes meet MWF at 8:00; in addition to allowing students an extra half-hour of sleep, the Registrar's Office hopes that the change will entice teachers to choose the 8:30 slot for their classes, thus increasing that number to 100. "As it stands, departmental offices don't open until 8:00," says Pace. "Professors teaching the early classes can't access the copy machines." 
According to the minutes from the April 26 meeting, increasing the number of early morning classes would better facilitate scheduling, as fewer faculty would opt for the afternoon slots. 
The proposal also deals with the heavy demand for 75-minute classes on Tuesday and Thursday. Deleting the one-hour midday break creates another period in the day; consequently, traffic in the dining halls at 
12:15 would be greatly reduced. 
The effect of the plan on the students has not been over­looked; Pace asserts that, when drawing up their schedules, stu-

Possible Revised Standard Class lmes 
The administration is considering a class scheduling change for next year. The proposed new times are listed below. 
Monday/Wednesday/Friday TuesdaylThursday 
8:30 a.m. "9:20 a.m. 
9:35 a.m. • 10:25 a.m. 
10:40 a.m. ·11:30 a.m. 11:~5 a.m . .: 12:35 p.m. 12:50 p.m.-1:40 p.m. 
1:55 p.m. • 2:45 p.m. 3:00 p.m.-3:50 p.m. 
4:05 p.m. •4:5~ p.m. 5:10p.m.-6:00p.m. 

8:00 a.m ... 9:15 a.m. 
ONLY for departmental exams and graduate level classes. 
9:30a.m. ·10:45 a.m. 
11:00 a.m. ·12:15 p.m. 12:30 p.m. -1 :45 p.m. 2:00p.m ... 3:15p.m. 
3:30 p.m ... 4:45 p.m. 5:00p.m ... 6:15p.m. 
Features: 
• 
Start Classes 30 minutes later on M/W/F 

• 
Standardize 15 minute break between all M/W/F classes 

• 
Gain an additional class period for the popular Tffh schedule 

• 
Realign the standard times on M/W to reduce student scheduling conflicts with the M/W/F schedule 


dents would appreciate greater flexi­bility in choosing a timetable more to their liking. "Fewer classes would be meeting simultaneously, increasing the range of choices available," he stated. 
Pace has heard little response from the Academic Council, where his plan now sits. Ideally, it will receive approval before fall scheduling begins in January; otherwise, the changes 
The ObservetfChristopher Mullins 
would be implemented in Spring 1996 at the earliest. 
Last February, Pace posted the pro­posed schedule in DeBartolo Hall, hop­ing to gauge student reaction; few people voiced their thoughts. Pace en­courages Notre Dame students to make their opinions known by con­tacting the Academic Council or E­Mailing him personally at pace.4@nd.edu. 

Packing it in 
Farley freshman Molly Mcleod gathers up her belongings as she prepares to leave campus for fall break. 

South Bend to score with CHL? 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
Will the Irish Hockey Team have to share its title of South Bend's Greatest Show on Ice? 
They may have too, if South Bend Mayor Joe Kernan gets his way. 
Kernan recently announced plans to move the Colonial Hockey League from London Ontario to the city. 
Discussions about relocating the London Wildcats took place last month. At the end of September Green Hockey, LLC of Pierceton, Ind. told Kernan they would move the team to Michiana. 
"I am very pleased that this offer has come to the city of South Bend," Kernan told a press conference in September. "We're excited about the fact that we've been approached." 
The move hinges upon South Bend's construction of a downtown 5,000-seat multi­purpose arena to host the team's home games. But Campus Green President Michael Plosek is confident that South Bend is the place for his team. 
"South Bend has repeatedly displayed the vision necessary to accomplish major commu­nity development projects," said Plosek. "We believe it is rapidly becoming one of the most dynamic cities of its size in the country." 

The Wildcats would join the South Bend Silverhawks and the College Football Hall of Fame as major community achievements in the last six years. 
"If we make a commitment to build the arena, they will come," Kernan said. He also said he wanted the decision to secure the franchise to be left up to the public. 
Kernan has stated he will contact civic groups, including the Chamber of Commerce, and the Irish Youth Hockey Leagues to study the feasibility of the plan. A final decision may come by the end of the year. 
"There is a need that is rec­ognized for us to move very quickly in order to be able to give them an answer," Kernan said. 
One possible site that was discussed was The Ice Box on South Bend's near west side. When that plan fell through, attention turned to downtown. 
According to Kernan, the city is still examining possible 
see HOCKEY I page 4 
Colonial Hockey 

West Division 
Thunder Bay, Ontario Senators Muskegon, Mich. Fury Quad City, Iowa Mallards Madison, Wis. Monsters 
East Division 
Brantford, Ontario Smoke Flint, Mich. Generals Detroit Falcons Utica, N.Y. Blizzard Saginaw, Mich. Wheels 

uecKEY 

This is the last issue of The Observer until Tuesday, October 24. llave a safe and e'lfioyable break!! 
--rT-rT-rrTO·--rr-rr-rrr-,....,...,,_,_,....,...,....,...,.--.....,--,.--r-c :,~_, .. --~ ~·:::1 
1 , If ! t, I I r • t I 1, I I If I I I I, I o I I J 1 I / t If I I I I 1 t • t 
~ I 1 / 1 I I I I • I I I I I ' < I f I I I I I I I I ' I I I I! 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, October 13, 1995 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


Hello, is there 


anybody out 

there? 
When some of my friends asked me what I was going to write about in my inside column and I answered, "I'm thinking about writing about polit­ical apathy on campus," one of my friends said, "What's politics?" and 

my roommate responded, Margee Husemann "Who cares about that?" Associate Viewpoint Ha ha, I'm so lucky to Ediror have such funny friends. 
Everyday on campus, we all wake up in our safe little rooms, listen to our happy radio stations and go about our normal routines. We all can become increasingly immune to the outside world. Our parents are supposed to deal with that. We just have to go to class­es and hang out in our dorm rooms. We're all safe in the womb of Notre Dame. 
Occasionally soineone makes the campus aware of an issue on campus like the GLND/SMC controversy or the tuition hikes and student loans, but, on the whole, most campus problems remain trapped in anonymity in campus clubs or buried in the Viewpoint section of the paper. No one really takes a stand. 
I suppose that there could be several good reasons for this. Half of us are so concerned with our work and our future that we don't really have the time to commit to politics. Others of us don't see how issues affect us or are not aware of the issues while on campus. Still others of us just don't give a damn about anything beyond our own sphere. 
These are easy traps to fall into, but a lot of these issues affect our futures and some affect our lives now. I'll be the first one to admit to you that I am not a particularly political person. Only occasionally do I turn on the news or read the headlines concerning national and international events in The Observer. I, too, often fall into the group of students who keep up with the world through my parents and radio news before the weath­er forecast in the morning. Because I am a conservative and most of my good friends are liberals, I actually try to avoid political con­versations so that we can remain good friends. However, I fmd it necessary to join College Republicans and special concerns groups to keep current on issues that partic­ularly irilpactnie and my· community. 
Despite apparent political apathy, students 
here have an overwhelming response to the 
opportunities to show Christian charity. 
Service projects such as Appalachia and 
Urban Plunge have to actually turn down 
applicants. The same is true for other such 
possibilities to explore the spriritual aspects 
of Notre Dame, including NDE. While cam­
pus has a great interest in pursuing manners 
of faith, often such retreats and projects are 
aimed specifically at developing the individ­
ual and raising individual consciousness 
rather than canvasing the entire campus. 
My point is this: If you feel strongly about 
something like GLND/SMC, women's ordina­
tion, or the new Republican balanced budget 
plan, do something about it. Do anything. 
These four years of your life are probably 
you last chance to be truly radical about 
something. So, write a letter to the editor, 
have a prayer service, join a club. Do some­
thing to keep yourself informed and to keep 
the rest of campus informed. Each one of us 
is a little piece of the future, and by taking 
part in something now, we can ensure the 
,~.:ontinueq aw11reness in the future. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Viewpoint 
Jaime Heisler Michael O'Hara 
Tom Moran Production 
Sports Belle Bautista Andy Cabiness David Diaz 
• WORUl AT AGLANCE 

Aftershocks, destruction in wake of Mexican earthquake 
MANZANILLO, said housewife Maria 
Mexico Morelos, one of hundreds of 
A strong aftershock rat­people camping out in 
tled this Pacific resort dozens of makeshift shel­
town Thursday just as ters after their homes were 
rescue workers clearing damaged or destroyed in 
the rubble of a flattened the Monday quake. 
hotel neared a lobby "My God," she said. 
where 20 earthquake vic­"When is it going to stop?" 
tims are believed buried. At least 26 aftershocks 
Thursday's quake last­have rattled this town of 
ed for more than five sec­60,000 since the 7.6-magni­
onds, causing panic but tude earthquake struck 
no reports of serious along some 200 miles of the 
injuries or deaths. western Mexican coastline 
At least 55 are known Monday morning. 
to have died in a stronger With cranes, drills and 
quake Monday, and that pickaxes, rescue workers 
number is expected to continued their day-and­
rise as rescue workers night quest to dig through 
pry through the wreck­the rubble of the flattened 
age to reach the lobby of Costa Real hotel, where at 
the fallen hotel. least 20 bodies have been 
recovered. 

Mexico's ·National At a news conference 
Seismological Institute Wednesday night, the gov­
reported that Thursday's ernor of Colima, Carlos de 

quake measured 6.1. The 
U.S. Geological Survey in 
Golden, Colo., gave it a preliminary reading of 5.5. "Since Monday, the ground hasn't stopped shaking," 

AP la Madrid Virgen, said the 
earthquake destroyed 17 schools, three health clinics in nearby communities and hundreds of homes. 
Goldwater calls Powell a shoo-in 
PHOENIX 
The Republican Party should recruit retired Gen. Colin Powell for the 1996 presidential race and would fmd him a virtual shoo-in if it did so, former Sen. Barry Goldwater said. "I think you could almost call him automatically elected -he's that good," Goldwater told The Arizona Republic in an inter­view published today. "I just think he's 

such an outstanding man, either party would be lucky to get him." Powell has yet to decide whether he's a candi­date, but the Republic said his supporters have been lob­bying Arizona leaders for more than a year in anticipa­tion of the Feb. 27 primary that's only a week after New Hampshire's, the nation's first. Goldwater endorsed Bob Dole in May and said he will stick by that endorsement for now. Would he switch to Powell? "That's a question that has to be answered after he (Powell) announces," Goldwater said. "We just have to wait and see." 


U.S. helps cause of female masons 
BOSTON 
Colleen Muldoon has been a bricklayer for eight 
years. But she stopped working about six months ago ­
"burned out," she says, by the stresses of being one of 
the few women in the trade. With men representing the 
overwhelming majority of America's bricklayers, masons 
and construction workers, the U.S. Labor Department is 
spending money to break down a wall that has kept 
women out of the 'trowel trades.' The department 
announced $1.5 million in grants to help women and 
minorities train for nontraditional occupations. Of that, 
nearly $225,000 is going to the International Masonry 
Institute to recruit and retain more female stone masons, 
brick and tile layers, plasterers and the like. It's money 
well-spent, Muldoon said. A 1994 Bureau of Labor 
Statistics report found that women held 108,000 con­
struction jobs that year --2.2 percent of all construction 
workers and supervisors. For masonry workers, the fig­
ure was less than 1 percent. "They're not glamorous pro­
fessions," said Hazel Bradford, an IMI spokeswoman. 



Eyeball computer could aid blind 
ORLANDO, Fla. 

An artificial vision system with tiny TV cameras in eye­
glasses sending invisible laser-borne messages to a com­
puter inside the eye may restore at least partial sight to 
the blind, researchers say. The computer, about the size 
of the date on a penny, floats gently on the retina, pow­
ered by solar cells activated by the laser beam. The com­
puter converts visual signals encoded in the laser beam 
to electrical impulses to be sent to the brain. The first 
eye-on-a-chip has just been completed at a cost of 
$500,000. But mass production of the chips could bring 
the cost down to as low as $50 each. Researchers are 
years away from human trials of the computer. They 
hope to put the first chip in a rabbit's eye within the next 
year. The computer chip is only a stop-gap measure 
until gene therapy can reverse the underlying genetic de­
fects in some forms of blindness. The chip will probably 
produce only limited vision in a very narrow visual field, 
but that could be enough to dramatically improve the 
lives of patients who cannot see at all, Rizzo said. 

Woman sits on straying boyfriend 
NORRISTOWN, Pa. 

A woman who returned from prison to find her 
boyfriend had strayed sat on the man until he promised 
to take her back, police said. Juanita Winston -who at 
170 pounds outweighs William Narr by more than 40 
pounds -was charged with assault, reckless endanger­
ing and stalking. Police said Winston, 27, cornered Narr, 
37, on Saturday in the storeroom of the liquor store he 
managed, picked him up and threw him onto a ramp, 
then wrapped an apron around his neck and forced him 
into a chair. Then she sat on him, police said. "He final­
ly gave in and told (Winston) that he would like to renew 
their old relationship," according to court papers. She 
broke 23 bottles of alcohol during the confrontation, 
police said. Winston had been jailed three months ago 
for nonsupport of her children and probation violations. 
After she got out last week, she discovered Narr had 
resumed an old relationship. She began to visit him at 
home and at work, going to the store seven times, police 
said. 
Friday, Oct. 13 
Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct. 13. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

OHIO 
ltndianapoli3 82° I 

COLD WARM STATIONARY Prsssure 
H L ED ISS! [I] 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN F-STORMS VIs AsSCICUilted Presa 
tC 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
~ ~ ,.-1\

0 ~8 ~~c........!. 
FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
• 
Graphics Lab Tech Chris Mullins Dave Murphy 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam 1.nd vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. Via Associated Press GraphlcsNat 


Atlanta  76  64  Columbus  67  57  Miami  85  77  
Atlantic City  73  67  Dallas  75  53  Minneapolis  55  35  
Baltimore  74  59  Denver  72  30  New Orleans 80  68  
Boston  79  59  Los Angeles 94  69  New York  73  62  
Chicago  54  48  Mahwah, NJ 72  61  Philadelphia 76  59  

------11'1•1'•\~~ " 'I , • I' I 1 1 1; 
Friday, October 13, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Center for llistory on Washing­ton Street. 
The debate will have a stan­dll.rd question-and-11.nswer for­mat. The questions will be asked by a three-member panel composed by local busi­nesswomll.n Vivian Sallie, WSBT-TV news anchor Todd Connor, and South Bend Tri­bune political writer Jim Wen­sits. 
• CORRECTION 
Blackthorn development, and the option tax. 
The questions are to be de­termined solely by the pan­elists. 
The mayoral debate will be aired live on Channel 22 WSBT from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. next Wednesday, October 18. WSBT expects approximately 60,000 viewers to watch the event. 

An article in yesterday's Observer reported inaccurately that the group Friends of Sinn FtHn spent money in Northern Ireland. All of the organization's funds are spent in the United States. The Observer rogrets the error. 
Gefebrale afriend's 
birlhday wilha 

specialObserver ad. 
BY SARAH CORKREAN 
News Writer 
It's not often that people live to reach the century mark. Sis­ter Maria Coronata, the oldest Sister of the Holy Cross, cele­brated her 1OOth birthday on Sept. 1. She credits praying and an eternal smile for her extraordinary longevity. 
Sister Maria was born in Utah and joined the order of the Sis­ters of the Holy Cross in 1916 at age 20. She said, "I believe God c11.1led me to serve by working with children and teaching them about the love of God." Sister Maria earned her teacher's certific11.te 80 years ago. She said she has always enjoyed being surrounded by energetic children with fresh, young minds. 
Along with teaching, she made visits to hospital x-ray departments serving a friendly smile and helping hand as part of her ministry. "Just by saying God bless you, I felt ll.S if I made aware to the patients the love God provides," she said. 


According to Sister Maria, turning 100 years old doesn't automatically mean it is time to slow down. Having retired from the classroom, she cur­rently works in the convent's mail room a few hours a day, collecting stamps off envelopes to be exchanged for food to feed starving children. 
"She's a very positive, loving individual," stated Cathy Gordon, Communications Co­ordinator for the Sisters of the Holy Cross. "As a member of the convent community, she's part of "a group which I con­sider to be my extended fam­ily." 
Moving to this community almost two years ago from the Holy Cross order in Fresno, California, Sister M11.ria says feels very welcome and at home in the Sisters of the Holy Cross community. She also credits the Saint Mary's com­munity for creating a friendly and energetic atmosphere that she says she is proud to call home. 
As for advising young people of ways to serve the Lord in their lives today, Sister Maria stated, "by praying, listening, and understanding wh11.t you are praying about, you will find how to serve the Lord in your own way." 
So, exactly what is Sister Maria's secret to living to be an active 100-year-old woman? "Simply a smile and many prayers. Prayers to live a full life serving the Lord the best that I can," she said with a grin. 
No More Clowning Around-
Happy Birthday John! 
~(We, ~euutZ'ad 
GREAT \YALL 

Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992 and 19931 Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
.............. 
Suncby Buffrl Brunch · Evrry Suncby 
58.95 for Adull• 

53.95 for l.'hlldren undrr 10 
I I 'I I  I I/ • 1 I' I I I  • I  'I  '  I' 1 I I'' I 1 I I I ' '• I 1  -----------------~---~-~  - -­----------~-~~-......-­......­ 
page4  The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS  Friday, October 13, 1995  

Kellogg Institute hosts Pacific conference Hockey 
By KAREN POGGI 
News Writer 
The first of two workshops discussing the political econo­my of regional development and cooperation in the Pacific Basin, with special reference to APEC, will be held in room C103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies on Oct. 14. 
This event is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute for Inter­national Studies and the Office of the Provost, as well as Nan­zan University in Japan. Five professors from this university ~ll be p~e.s~nting papers at the workshop this weekend, and five Notre Dame professors will speak at the second workshop scheduled to take place at Nan­zan University in 1996. 
According to Kwan Kim, a Notre Dame economics profes­sor and co-organizer of the workshop, "The theme of (the) two workshops is the socioeco­nomic development and re­gional cooperation in the Pacific Basin. 
By analytically exploring the intricacies of social, political, and economic relationships op­erative in the region, the work­shop papers are expected to take a prospective and prescriptive view of the oppor­tunities and possibilities the countries of the region will have in the emerging Pacific age." 
According to Professor Kim, the goal of the workshop series is to "create an ongoing forum for dialogue encompassing North America, Latin America, and Pacific Asia." The main theme of the workshops will be "regional economic coopera­tion," but Kim said that they will also try to "elicit new vi­sions for the future develop­ment of the Pacific Basin and to help prevent development that is based upon blind, nonhuman, economic factors." 
Other issues, such as "transi­tion to democracy, respect for indigenous cultures, preserva­tion of the environment, and the need for dialogue among the many religions in the area" will also be incorporated into workshop discussions. 
The workshop is a "collabora­tive effort between Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute and Nanzan University," according to Joetta Schlabach, the coordi­nator of the workshops. Profes­sor Kim expanded on this by saying that the two institutions will combine their research be­cause Notre Dame's Kellogg Institute has strength in Latin American studies, while Nan­zan University has strength in East Asian areas. 
Kim also said that "the main benefits from this collaboration will be to establish a research network that can be enlarged through contacts with other in­stitutions, such as the UN Eco­nomic Commission on Latin America and the Caribbean, and including appropriate Catholic Universities." 
Last night there was a recep­tion and dinner at Greenfields Cafe to welcome the guests, with opening remarks by Notre Dame president Father Edward Malloy. The actual workshop, which began today, consists of a total of five sessions. 
The topic of the first session, which lasted from 8:30 a.m. to 
9:30 a.m., was the political economy of Pacific Basin inte­gration. 
It featured the presentation of a paper called "APEC: Beyond Economics" by Brian Job, the Director of the Institute of International Relations and professor of political science at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver. The discussant for this paper was Professor Raimo Vayrynen. 
The second session will con­cern multilateralism vs. region­alism. Yorizumi Watanabe, the Associate Professor of Interna­tional Political Economy and Di­rector of the Centre for Euro­pean Studies at Nanzan Univer­sity, will present a paper enti­tled "Multilateralism and Re­gionalism: Conflicts and Coop­eration." 
The second paper in this ses­sion, entitled "Emerging Multi­lateralism in Asia and the Pa­cific," will be presented by Tsu­tomu Kikuchi, a Professor of In­ternational Politics at Nanzan University. The two discus­sants of this session will be De­nis Goulet and James Rakowski, both from Notre Dame. This session will last from 10 a.m. to noon. 
The topic of the third session is "Regional Development and Integration from Asian Per­spectives." The three papers to be presented during this ses­sion will be "An Asian Perspec­tive on APEC" by Yoji Akashi, a professor of International Rela­tions at Nanzan University; "APEC and the Japanese Economy" by Satoshi Hannai, a professor of economics and Dean of the Graduate Program of Economics at Nanzan Uni­versity; and "Human Resource Development in Asia," by Shozo Inouye, a professor of Business Administration at Nanzan Uni­versity. The discussants for this session will be Kwan Kim, Yusaku Furuhashi, and Juan Rivera; all are from Notre Dame. 

The topic of the fourth ses­sion will be "Cooperation and Integration from US and Latin American Perspectives." Two papers will be presented on this topic: "Open Regionalism: Lessons from Latin America for East Asia", by Clark Reynolds, professor of economics at the Food Research Institute of Stanford University, and "APEC from a US Perspective" by Michael Plummer, the director of the Lemberg Program in International Economics and Finance at Brandeis University and an assistant professor of economics. 
The discussants for this ses­sion, to run from 8:30 a.m. to 
10:15 a.m., will be Jaime Ros and Jeffrey Bergstrand, both from Notre Dame. 
The final topic will consist of the conference wrap-up, evalu­ation, and future planning, and will last from 10:45 a.m. to 
12:15 p.m. The public is wel­come at all five sessions. 
Malloy names advisory council members 
Special to The Observer 
New members of the Univer­sity of Notre Dame's 10 advi­sory councils have been an­nounced by University presi­dent Father Edward Malloy. 
• 
College of Arts and Letters-Patricia Gales, Phoenix; Susan Hagan, Pittsburgh; Thomas Herbstritt, president, Chicago Hardware and Fixture Co., Franklin Park, Ill.; Donald Potter, president, Windermere Associates, Inc., San Francisco; James Sullivan, investment an­alyst, LaSalle National Bank, Chicago; and Thomas Sullivan, president, Delphi Capital Man­agement, New York. 

• 
College of Business Admin-i~tration :'Kevin Bradford, doc­toral candidate, University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla.; Dorothy Dolphin, chairman of the board, Dolphin Companies, Minneapolis; Zein Issa, market­ing executive, SuperClubs, Kingston, Jamaica; and David Johnson, president and chief executive officer, Campbell Soup Co., Camden, N.J. 

• 
College of Engineering ­John Barter, president, Allied Signal Automotive, Southfield, 


Mich.; Michael Hawley, regional manager, AT&T Network Systems, Schaumburg, Ill.; Joseph Keating, senior vice president, Merck & Co., Inc., Whitehouse Station, N.J. 
Also, Charles Kitz, director of corporate and public policy planning, Chrysler Corp., Highland Park, Mich.; Rex Martin, president and chief executive officer, NIBCO, Elkhart, Ind.; Joseph Neuhoff, president, Neuhoff Oil and Gas Corp., Dallas; and Patricia Pieronek, Anderson Consulting, Chicago. 
• 
College of Science -Rose­mary, assistant professor of chemistry, Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio; and John Zic, director of dermatology, Van­derbilt University Medical Cen­ter, Nashville, Tenn. 

• 
Law School -Sheila O'Brien, judge, Illinois Appelate Court, Chicago; Charles Wilson, U.S. Attorney, Tampa, Fla. 

• 
University Libraries -Ed­ward Devine, managing direc­tor of corporate finance, Chemical Bank, New York; Craig Kapson, president, The Jordan Group, Mishawaka, Ind.; Scott Mulcahy, graduate 


student, Northwestern Univer­sity, Evanston, Ill.; Carmina Perez, attorney, Whiteford, Taylor & Preston, L.L.P., Balti­more; William Simpson, presi­dent, J.P. Emco, Ada, Okla.; and Samuel Valenti, president, Masco Capital Corp., Taylor, Mich. 
• 
Graduate Studies and Re­search -George Novak, execu­tive vice president and director of international sales, The Robinson-Humphrey Co., At­lanta; Michael Shannon, vice chairman, Ecolab Inc., St. Paul, Minn.; James Sullivan, vice chairman, Chevon Corp., San Francisco; and Robert Sullivan, principal, Sullivan & Co., Tulsa, Okla. 

• 
Snite Museum of Art ­Dorothy Griffin, president, Varflex Corp., Rome, N.Y. 

• 
Institute for Church Life ­Francis English, managing director of corporate finance, Morgan Stanley & Co., Win­netka, Ill.; Micaela English, Winnetka, Ill.; Louis Gentine, president and chief executive officer, Sargento Inc., Elkhart Lake, Wise.; Michele Gentine, Elkhart Lake, Wise; Brian Me­earthy, chief of World Health 


r--------------------------------------------, 
fJ>\~WC3ffi'&~
HOURS: Monday-Thursday 7 am to 10 pm • Friday 7 am to 8 pm • Saturday 9 am to 7 pm • Sunday 9 am to 5 pm 
21 Tans For $2 
NOTRE DAME 
277-1166 Wallclng distance from N.D. 
Must be 18 Of older. One per a.tomer. 
L--------~~~~~~-~==~~~~--------_, 

L-------------------------------------------------~~------~~---------~-­
Organization Collaborating Center in Perinatal Care and Health Services Research at the Centers for Disease Control, At­lanta; Mary McCarthy, Atlanta; Lisa Orchen, director of campus ministry, St. Joseph College, West Hartford, Conn.; William Shaw, president, Marriott Ser­vices Group and executive vice president, Marriott Corp., Po­tomac, Md.; and Rebecca Shaw, Potomac, Md. 
• International -Robert 0'­Grady, vice president and un­derwriting manager, Sun Al­liance, USA, New York. 
continued from page 1 
sites. 
"We really don't have any basis to be able to say it should go here or it should go here," he said. Kernan did say that there would probably only be three or four areas that would be available. 
The five year-old Colonial Hockey League has teams in 10 cities around the upper Midwest and Canada. It is roughly equivalent to Class AA in minor league baseball. Players from the CHL usually move on to the International or International Hockey Leagues, one step below the National Hockey League. 
The South Bend Tribune con­tributed to this report. 
Please Recycle The Observer 


"DAYTONA BEACH I (4 j'lf,t)!iI STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 

' PER P£RSON DEPENDiNG ON DESnNATION /BREAX OAll:S /l£NGTN Of STAY. 
'1~8QQ~Sili!IICU4.S·E 

TOLL l1!lili INFOI!W.noN &. IPESI;R\'.I'IONS 
~ KENAN-FLAGLER 
BUSINESS SCHOOL 
UNC-CHAPEL HILL 
Top 4 Reasons for Liberal Arts and Science Students to Attend the Nationally Ranked Graduate Business Information Session 
1. 
Innovative, selective 12-month program 

2. 
Exceptional employment opportunities nationwide 

3. 
Admits only non-accounting undergraduates 

4. 
Leads to Master's of Accounting degree in 1 year 


FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Please come meet our representative at the Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room Monday, October 23, 5:30-7:30 p.m. 
Friday, October 13, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
PLO: Closures violate treaty 
By DONNA ABU-NASR 
Associar~d Pr~ss 
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip 

The PLO, in a sign of brew­ing animosity between Israelis and Palestinians over the re­cent autonomy agreement, said Thursday that Israel's border closure with the West Bank and Gaza Strip'vi'olil.tes the pact and should be lifted immediately. 
PLO chief Vasser Arafat wrote a letter to Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin to protest the closure, as well as delays in Israel's withdrawal from West Bank cities and con­struction of homes for Jewish settlers, a spokesman said. The letter arrived Thursday. 
Citing security threats from Muslim militants, Israel sealed Gaza on Sept. 20 and the West Bank on Sept. 27, barring the 2 million Palestinians living there from entering Israel and cut­ting off many laborers from their jobs. The closures are to be lifted Tuesday. 
"This is a violation of the ac­cord," Kanafani said Thursday. "Habin has signed an agree­ment with the Palestinian Au­thority ... he should respect it. .... The Palestinians did not sign aJl agreerncn~ so they would live behind bars." 
Kanafani said Arafat has asked the United States and Egypt to intervene in the dis­pute. 
The remarks are the latest accusations between Israel and the PLO over the accord. Under the pact, Israeli troops will leave Palestinian towns and vil­lages over the next six months and the West Bank's 1 million Palestinians will be. granted self-rule. 
Israel withdrew from four West Bank villages on Tuesday and Wednesday, but Palestinian officials said the pullout was cosmetic. They ac­cused Israel of breaking a promise to begin withdrawing 
Agreed areas of control 
• Area A: Total Palestinian control IIArea B: Palestinian civil control 
with Israeli security0 Area C: Total Israeli control 
ISRAEL 
from Palestinian towns 10 days after the agreement was signed in Washington on Sept. 28. 
Kanafani warned that further delays would "torpedo the agreement" and strengthen the hand of extremists who want to derail the peace process. 
The PLO has been trying to negotiate a cease-fire agree­ment with the Muslim militant group llamas to require the group to halt attacks on Israelis and join elections for the Pales­tinian governing council. 


EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0after your first plasma donation! 

$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I. D. (first visit)  
+$1 QQQ  per person~ you recrutt someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
15 miles 15km 
APN/m. J. Castello 
But a Barnas spokesman in Jordan, Ibrahim Ghosheh, de­nied the group had agreed to participate in the elections, and he said Hamas would continue resisting Israeli occupation of parts of the West Bank and Gaza Strip. 
"The position of Hamas has not changed, and it remains opposed to those elections," he said Thursday. The remarks contradicted Arafat, who told reporters in Gaza that Hamas would participate. 
Ghosheh said the group was willing to resume talks with the PLO in Khartoum, Sudan, but stressed that the self-rule au­thority must first release all Hamas activists rounded up in recent months. 
In Israel, Rabin is also facing increasing opposition from right-wing opponents riled by the peace accord. He and his Cabinet ministers have been cursed, shouted down and even jostled by demonstrators in re­cent weeks. 
Rabin said Thursday the heckles could lead to physical assaults. 
"I am concerned in general, but not about me personally," the prime minister told Israel army radio. 
CALLUSAT 

1-800-360-4990 Mon.-Fri. 'til 6 p.m. 

Iraq denies UN charges, to vote on referendum 
By THOMAS WAGNER Associated Press 
BAGHDAD, Iraq Iraq's vice president on Thursday accused the chief 
U.N. weapons inspector of lying when he said Iraq misled the world about the size of its weapons programs. 
Iraq also condemned the United States for saying the presidential referendum that Iraq will hold Sunday is a sham because Saddam Hussein is the only candidate on the ballot. 
Posters and pictures of Sad­dam have been put up on buildings across central Baghdad encouraging Iraqis to vote for the 58-year-old leader and give him seven more years in power. One poster says, "Life is meaningless without the leader." 
At the United Nations on Wednesday, Rolf Ekeus, the chief U.N. weapons inspector, said Iraq tested toxins on ani­mals and misled U.N. monitors about the size of its weapons programs. 
"Iraq's efforts to conc~al its biological weapons program, its chemical missile warhead flight tests and work on the development of a missile for the delivery of a nuclear device led it to provide incorrect infor­mation concerning certain of its missile activities," Ekeus said in a report. 
The United Nations imposed economic sanctions on Iraq af­ter its 1990 invasion of Kuwait. 
U.N. Security Council members have repeatedly said they will not consider easing the sanc­tions until Iraq fully cooperates with the weapons monitors. 
James P. Rubin, a spokesman for the U.S. mission at the United Nations, said the report shows Iraq's "vast deception effort" and how difficult it will be to prove it has complied with U.N. Security Council resolutions. 
Iraqi Vice President Taha Muhieddine Maarouf on Thurs­day denied the charges at a ceremony at Martyr's Monu­ment in Baghdad. The cere­mony honored about 20 chil­dren Iraq says were killed when their nearby school was destroyed by missiles during the 1980-1988 Iran-Iraq war. 
Dozens of elementary school children marched in a parade around the monument, singing songs and chanting "We are prepared to sacrifice our souls and selves for our leader, President Saddam Hussein." 
Asked about Ekeus' report, Maarouf said: "He's lying, you see, about this." He said Iraq has fully cooperated with U.N. inspectors since it lost the Gulf War in 1991. 
After the ceremony, the Min­istry of Information condemned a U.S. comment about Iraq's referendum. 
In Washington, Nicolas Burns, a State Department spokesman, said Wednesday that Iraq has had no democra­cy since Saddam took power in 1979. 
"The idea of an election in which you get to vote for one person and no one else is really a mockery of democratic prin­ciples," Burns said. 
In a statement, Iraq's Infor­mation Ministry said: "The comment ... shows the level of nervousness and the state of fi­asco that the American admin­istration has reached in dealing with Iraq." 
Meanwhile, leaflets circulat­ing in Iraq are telling foreign journalists not to cover the ref­erendum, an Iraqi opposition group said. 
The leaflets were distributed in several neighborhoods in the capital Baghdad. They urged journalists and foreign ob­servers to boycott the referen­dum, which they called "the­atrics," the Supreme Assembly for the Islamic Revolution in Iraq said Thursday. 
"We cannot guarantee the security of the foreign journal­ists and the observers who are in Iraq to watch the mockery of the referendum," the leaflet said, according to a statement from the opposition group, faxed to The Associated Press in Cairo. 
The Iran-based group did not claim responsibility for the leaflets and declined to say who distributed them. 
Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
The Observer 
Would like to make the following correction: 
All Positions are filled for Advertising Account Executive 
Currently no applications are being accepted. 
-~~--------------------~ 
~ --~' 
' I I 
page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 13, 1995 
Hearing to determine fate of abortion waiting period 
Pro-choice advocates challenge law 
By MIKE SMITH Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
An abortion rights advocate who opposes a law requiring an 18-hour waiting period for the procedure said today that women already receive detailed counseling before having an abortion. 
Jane Stout, director of A Woman's Choice clinic in Indi­anapolis, which performs abor­tions, said pregnant women are given ample information about the procedure and alternatives. 
"That's not to say there haven't been occasions where a woman says, 'What would you d'o?' and· the answer is, 'It doesn't matter what I would 
E~ 
~ 
do."' 
Stout testified in the second day of a federal court hearing that could block enforcement of the law indefinitely. 
On Wednesday, another abor­tion rights advocate said the law punishes women who have already struggled with their decision. 
"I would consider it cruelty that no matter how long you have thought about it and how much you have considered it, you still have to wait 18 hours," said Dr. Jane Hodgson, who has directed several clinics that have performed abortions. 
Simon Heller, a lawyer repre­senting clinics challenging the law, told U.S. District Judge David Hamilton that it would be a substantial obstacle to women seeking abortions. 
Attorneys for the state said the law tries to ensure that women are as knowledgeable as possible about abortions and alternatives before they un­
~ 
\i •Urban Outfitters 
•Handcrafted Beaded 
~THE 
& Silver Jewelry
~STYLE 
Layaway&
CO., INC. 
AlteratiOns Available 
dergo the procedure. 
Hamilton issued a temporary restraining order in August blocking the law from taking effect as scheduled Sept. 1. 
This week's hearing, which is expected to last until Friday, will determine whether an injunction is imposed to block the law until its constitutionali­ty is determined in federal courts. 
The law requires women to be counseled face-to-face about the risks and alternatives to abortions, and then wait at least 18 hours before the proce­dure is performed. 
A similar Pennsylvania law was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court, but that law allows women to receive the counseling over the phone. 
Opponents of Indiana's law say it essentially requires women to make two trips to a doctor, creating financial hard­ships for women who are either young, poor, or live in rural ar­eas. 

A researcher with the Alan Guttmacher Institute, which studies reproduction issues, said Wednesday he had studied the effects of a Mississippi law that requires two trips to re­ceive an abortion. 
Stanley Henshaw said abor­tions in Mississippi dropped by 11 percent after the law was enacted in 1992. There was a 17 percent increase in the num­ber of Mississippi women going out-of-state for abortions, he said. 
There was also an increase in the number of second-trimester abortions, and Indiana would likely see similar trends if its statute were enforced, he said. 
On cross-examination, Hen­shaw acknowledged that his findings were partially based on information he got from abor­tion providers in Mississippi, and not on surveys of women seeking abortions. 
"Then you have nothing more than speculation," said Deputy Attorney General Arend Abel. 
Proponents of abortion delays say women often make hasty decisions to have the procedure and then suffer emotional scars and trauma afterwards. Hodg­son dismissed such claims. 
"I think it has been emotion­ally written about by opponents of abortion as a scare tactic," she said. 
During opening arguments, Abel said it was not unreason­able for the General Assembly to impose "a brief reflection pe­riod" before abortions are per­formed. 
"They need all the informa­tion about alternatives and time and support we can give them," he said. 
The General Assembly passed the law with bipartisan support over Gov. Evan Bayh's objection in April. Bayh said he vetoed the measure because it did not exempt victims of rape and incest from the waiting period. 

Students protest UCal decision 
By MICHELLE LOCKE 
Associated Press 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Law students donned masks of white paper plates saying "Class of 2001 ?" as thousands of University of California stu­dents marched Thursday to protest the regents' repeal of affirmative action. 
Demonstrations including class walkouts, teach-ins, ral­lies and marches took place on all nine UC campuses and most were peaceful. At UCLA, how­ever, 36 people were arrested on charges of failing to dis­perse. 
"The regents didn't bother to ask the students how they felt," 18-year-old Chau Ly told hun­dreds of demonstrators at UC­San Diego. "We want them to give back the campuses to stu­dents." 
The protests came three months after the UC Board of 
Engagement Rings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 
55 E. llbshington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Frtt 32-Pagt Color CDialog Toii-Fnt (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 971-0248 lnttmtl CtJIDJog tJI http: 1/www.saptck. comlsapeck 
,4" ,4­
·over 40 Styles of Hats 
•Vintage Levis ~ •Coats/Jackets 
1912 S. 11th (U.S. 31133) t. 2 'h miles north of state line H ~ 
Belle Plaza, Niles M-F 1 «Ht~:;l, lo-6 
687-9123 Open Sun. 12-4 

Regents voted to drop race and gender as factors in admis­sions, hiring and contracting. 
The vote was taken against the advice of all nine chancel­lors, and 1,500 faculty signed a petition asking that it be re­scinded. 
The protests, held on what is Indigenous Peoples Day in Berkeley -Columbus Day else­where -were rife with echoes of the student protest move­ment of the 1960s, which began on the Berkeley campus. 
They were the first statewide demonstrations since the re­gents' decision in July; there have been sporadic protests at various campuses of the 154,000-student university sys­tem. 
In Berkeley, the Rev. Jesse Jackson told a screaming crowd of 3,000 people: "Berkeley's back. Congratulations! You're helping to set the pace for the nation." About 125 law school students left classes and chanted their way to the rally wearing the white masks. 
At UC-Davis, some 300 people gathered at a midday rally, some chanting and carrying placards. 
Not all students, however, oppose the policy change. 
As he watched the demon­stration, Todd Houser, 23, a communications major at UC­San Diego, said affirmative ac­tion is a form of racism. 
"We feel the UC Regents spoke and they spoke cor­rectly," said Houser, a member of a UC-wide group called Stu­dents for Merit-Based Admis­sions. 


You'LL ALWAYS BE A STUDENT OF TECHNOLOGY. 
At Discover Card/Novus Services, you'll always continue to expand your technical knowledge. Our Information Technology Group I lTG I Is defining and developing new Innovations every day that will take our services to a higher level. 
As part of this exciting team, you'll join an ambitious group of computer science, technology and management Information sys­tems professionals that demonstrate the ability to think outside the box. And you too will have the opportunity to explore your options, test your talent and reach your potential at the forefront of the Industry. 
Bring your college spirit and degree In computer science or MIS to Discover Card/Novus Services and receive a real career assignment. We'll test your knowledge without final examsI 
Discover Card/Novus Services will be at the Industry Day, Sept. 19-20; and at Information Night, Monday, Oct. 231n Student Union, Foster Room, 6-Spm. (dress Is business casuall. We look forward to meeting you thenI Equal opportunity employer m/f/d/v. 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 13, 1995 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
john Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Elizobeth Regan joseph Riley 

N cws Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager ........................... john Potter Viewpoint r:ditor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Spons Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director ... ,,•.... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Obs<rver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre llame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of cid1er insriturion. The nt"Ws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi· torials reprC'sCnt the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lcner!t and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and nm necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 .Acc<•nt/Saint Mary:s 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• DESIDERATA 
O.J. Trial: Verdict aside, O.J. still suffers from ordeal of nearly year-long trial, lack of closure 
I'm going to give in to temptation that he is not being punished for what the other will not want to. Or two people sense of the word, a "free man." Sure he today and write about the O.J. Simpson he did. This case is not -or should not who love each other decide, for whatev­smiled when the verdict was read, and case. I realize that just about everyone be -about fine legal technicalities. It is er reason, that it is better for them both he celebrated with friends and family else in America is expressing their views about a man who literally "got away to separate. These situations not only afterwards. But a smile does not always on this subject right about now, and that with murder." hurt; they can drive us to destructive reflect what is going on in one's heart, it is getting pretty annoying to a lot of I'll agree with you that the legal ends. As in the case where our partner and I have a feeling that he is hurting ­people. However, I'm going to go ahead aspects of this case -or any case, for dies, we might hurt a lot. Nicole was killed and say what's on my mind as well, that matter -are far less important than before he really had a
ourselves, directly or ------------­
because my thoughts on the case are its implications in the lives of the people indirectly. And yes, we chance to tell her and different from those of most people I involved. But precisely for that reason, I might feel driven to show her he was sorry
'Don't be deceived: 
know, and I hope they will cause a few contend that O.J. Simpson is being pun­hurt the other person for what he put her
although he 
of my opponents to rethink their views. ished, guilty or not. Because this case is and/or her new signifi­through -which I think First of all, I was ecstatic to see O.J. about love gone wrong, and about a cant other. This does escaped a prison sen­he was. There was no found not guilty. I guess I have a bit of a man who will forever feel its aftermath not mean we have lost real sense of closure to
tence, he is not, in the 
bias towards crimi-in his heart and soul. our feelings of love, their relationship when 
nal defendants, but ================ Love is such a however -which is why true sense of the word, her life was taken from 
I watched this case volatile emotion. On I contend that O.J. did her. Things were unre­
a "free man." Sure he 
somewhat closely, one hand, it has the and still does love solved between them, and the prosecu-potential to make us Nicole, despite the smiled when the ver­and will now remain so 
abuse he put her forever. And on top of it, 
tion simply did not Kl·rsten Dunne extremely happy. dict was read, and he 
come anywhere thinking nothing else through. What it means he was required to sit in
celebrated with friends 
close to satisfying in the world matters. is that that emotion a courtroom for almost a their burden of Problems fade into which once brought us and family afterwards. year listening to detailed proof. What's the background, for such wonder and bliss testimony about her
But a smile does not
more, I honestly they cannot be all has disappointed us and murder, with the fingers believe that O.J. is that bad if we have a has become destructive always reflect what is always pointed at him. innocent of the murders with which he stable relationship with someone we -perhaps even fatal. O.J. has to cope with all
going on in one's heart, 
was charged. More than anything else dearly love. Love energizes us, and gives So, assuming for the of this as long as he lives. about the trial, I was fascinated by his us a positive attitude about everything, moment that O.J. mur­and I have a feeling No, O.J. is not happy. demeanor in the courtroom. The tears so that we become more productive and dered Nicole and inno­He'll be forever punished
that he is hurting a
he occasionally shed -interpreted by enthusiastic in all that we do. Love can cent bystander Ron, by the dark side of love, some as a sign of guilt -were only nat-be nirvana. let's not be so quick to lot. ... There was no real which can be the worst ural in his situation. As for the majority But on the other hand, love can be conclude that he has punishment of all. 
sense of closure to 
of the time, when he looked almost emo-depressing and even destructive. If we gotten off unpunished. Lyrics from a song I've
their relationship when 
tionless, I don't know what to say. But are so unfortunate as to lose someone It is clear that he did always been fond of went there is no way, if you as me, that he we love through death, we might feel love Nicole. And there­her life was taken from through my mind often could have sat through all those months like we, too, have died. It is hard to fore, if he murdered throughout the O.J. trial:
her.

of testimony and not have cracked if he focus on our daily activities; nothing her -and if and when "I don't know what love had one it. If anything, he committed the seems to matter. Our physical condition, he remembers doing so ------------is... but if my hands are acts without the requisite mental state, as well as our mental condition, might -he will have to live the the color of blood ... then for it seems obvious that he, at least worsen. Some people are even driven to rest of his life knowing that he killed I can tell you ... love kills." Sound like an does not believe he is guilty. Whatever suicide attempts. Precisely because that someone dear to him; someone young exaggeration? Sadly, it is not. tlie case, I was pleased with the out-other person was so important to us in and beautiful, with whom he once found come, and would commend each one of life, to go on without them seems mean­great happiness. I don't know how this those jurors personally if given the ingless. would feel, but I'd have to guess that chance. Even more difficult, perhaps, are the it's a pretty tough sentence indeed. 
But I know a lot of you think O.J. is situations in which relationships "go Now assume that O.J. is innocent. Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and '95, is guilty, and I see how you would think so. bad." For example, one person in a rela­Don't be deceived: although he escaped working at Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, And believing he is guilty, you are upset tionsh1p might decide to move on, and a prison sentence, he is not, in the true Ltd. in Chicago. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 

VIEWPOINT

page8 Friday, October 13, 1995 
• lOCAL COLOR 

Coincidence? When intuition leads to meaningful 
Something interesting happened to my husband when he was at the end of his first year of graduate school at the University of Michigan. He woke up one Sunday morning and had the feeling that he ought to go home to Ohio. He'd been home only a few weeks before, but he felt that somehow it was important for him go home. 
The restless feeling was strong enough that he decided to cut his Monday class and go right ,away. He threw his things in the car and drove to Dayton. 
It was the mid­dle of the after­noon when he got to the house. "I waved to my dad, who was out front cutting the grass, and went in and said hello to my mother," he says. "We'd been inside maybe half an hour when Dad came in, saying how much his chest hurt. He laid down on the family room floor, that was what shocked me more than anything...l think it was him that said, 'Mother, call an ambulance.'" 
Late that night he remembers holding his weeping mother in his arms. "We'll try and get through this together," he told her. His father recovered, and will soon mark the 20th anniversary of his massive heart attack. He never told his parents how he happened to be home that afternoon. 
My friend Dorothy believes in follow­ing her intuitions. Some years ago, when the family was sorting out her mother's belongings after her death, Dorothy spotted three old engraving plates on a pile of things to be discard­ed. 
Of course she remembered them immediately. As a young fashion illustrator, she'd made the drawings for her father, of the three houses he'd 
designed and built to sell in the 1940's. She couldn't bring her­self to throw them away, so she gath­ered them up and took them home. 
Ten years later she was cleaning out the attic and found them again, and wondered why 
she was keeping them. Memories soft­en, she says, and she carried them downstairs to discard, but something told her to hold on to them a little longer, and she left them on the stairs. 
Not long after that, her brother came to the door. He'd been sorting things out at his own house, getting ready to move, and had found an envelope with copies of the ads as they'd appeared in print. 
"All of a sudden I had a brilliant idea," she says. "Why not make a copy of the ad, and give a copy of the ad and the en­graving plate to each of the people who owned the homes?" She put them in the back seat of the car, waiting for the opportune moment. 

She and her husband had finished their errands one Saturday morning, and were on the way to the library, their last stop. 
"Let's just stop across from 'Dad's house," she said to her husband. "If someone is around I'll leave it, if not, maybe I'll just forget it." 
It was a busy street, but they were able to stop for a moment. The house had a happy look, she remembers, and a garden, and as they were about to pull away, a car turned into the driveway. 
"Perfect timing," she thought, and it seemed like the green light she'd been waiting for. "I wonder if that's who owns the house? I'll take it over." 
"I have something you might be inter­ested in," Dorothy said, and that's how I met Dorothy. Her father built my house. 
Her father Bill was an engineer and a mason who had a reputation for being an extraordinary man for detail. He was a reserved man, French-Canadian by birth. 
A loving father, Dorothy recalls, but not one who expressed his feelings in words. After his death, her one sorrow was that she'd never heard her father say the words, "I love you." 
But Dorothy, more than twenty years after her father's death, received a belated message from her father. 
Carol Bradley 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Texas fans share mixed ND experience 
Ushers give bad image of ND 

Dear Editor: 
I am a student at the University of Texas and was in attendance at the game in South Bend on Sept. 23. I have long respected the University of Notre Dame both on and off the playing field, but I feel obligat­ed to bring to your attention the disturbing behaviors and actions of the ushers stationed in the South end zone during the game. 
My concerns in regards to the ushers focus on two main areas. The first of these is the fact that they prohibited fans in the UT student section (the bleachers in the South end zone) from standing up during the game. This does not appear to be a stadium regula­tion since I could not find any rules governing this in the pro­gram or the ticket stub. The majority of the UT students in attendance were "die-hard" fans who had enough spirit to endure the 20 hour road trip from Austin to South Bend. Having the ushers control our spirit upon our arrival fn this manner was very disappointing and also unfair. Furthermore, when our players looked over to the student section and saw us sitting down, it gave them the impression that we had given up or weren't supporting them, which was never the case. The home field advan­tage associated with playing in South Bend is already tremen­d{)usly strong; it need not be extended past its appropriate limits, as was the case in this situation. Even some Notre Dame fans seated behind us said that they could understand our spirit and did not ask us to sit down throughout the entire game. 
My other area of concern deals with the personal behav­ior of the ushers. Two or three individuals in particular were 
both rude and insulting to the visiting fans. The following are a few examples to illustrate my point. One of the ushers informed the crowd at one point that if we did not comply with his rules that he would start picking individual fans at random (regardless of whether they were at fault) and remove them from the stadium. In this case, only a small handful of the fans were actually violating his requests. One gentleman repeatedly asked individuals to show him their ticket stubs be­cause he felt certain that they were not in their appropriate seats (he was wrong in the ma­jority of cases). He based the repeated requests on his misconception that "half of you Texans can't read anyway." The same usher mentioned above along with one other, found it necessary to get right in our faces and yell rude and vulgar comments at us after every Notre Dame score. I can understand this behavior between opposing fans, but the fact that these individuals were representing the University of Notre Dame made their actions totally inappropriate. 
While you may see this letter as simply a "sore loser" fmding something to whine about or may not see the above-men­tioned actions as inappropriate, let me leave you with one fmal thought. Down here in Texas, we have something called hos­pitality. We treat our guests with respect and kindness. I found none of this on the part of the ushers in that South end zone. Is this the image that the University of Notre Dame wish­es to portray to its visitors? I hope not, but if so, then you succeeded. 
DAVID GARCIA Austin, TX 

"My son had come home from school," she remembers, "and he had a project to do, making a current events folder. They were supposed to letter the front of it, and he asked me, because I'd been an artist, if I could show him how to letter it. 
"I said, 'Gee, I wish your grandfather was here. He had a very simple way of lettering that almost anybody could do.' I sat down and tried and tried to re­member the whole alphabet, but I couldn't. All I could bring back in my mind was the picture of him leaning over his drawing board, which is how I often saw him.'' 
A couple of days later, her brother came to the door. He had been going through some of the things in his father's filing cabinet, and found a yel­lowed business envelope. "It looks like something he might have wanted you to have," he said. 
Her father had drawn out the whole alphabet and numerals, and doodled several different designs on the page, "Dot and Babs" (that was her sister), and-what Dorothy had wanted to hear all her life-"1 Love You." 
And what must surely have seemed like a direct communication from the hereafter was down in the corner of the page, a message in his own handwriting. It said, "This what you want, Dot?" 
Writer and Photographer Carol Bradley teaches magazine writing at Saint Mary's and can be reached via e­mail at carol.c. bradley.7@nd. edu 
Larger issues than murals 
How much further is this Political Correctness going to go? It has already infected Art, Religion, Academia, and now it has its little fingers in interior decorating. Not only was I outraged at NASA-NO's request to remove and destroy the Columbus murals, but I was also dumbfounded at this blatant request for censorship. Those murals are works of art. Correct, they are biased and non-inclusive, but it is not merely for the sake of tra­dition that they are there. The murals are strictly a romanti­cized version of the spread of Christianity to "undiscovered"lands. By destroying those murals, NASA-NO might as well stand up and declare that those viewing the murals are stupid, shallow and extremely impressionable. I venture to say that there is not one person on campus that does not know the tragedies that occurred during that time. All edu­cated people know that Columbus was party to the spreading of disease, rape and pillage. Maybe I'm the only one, but I certain­ly do not forget these facts when viewing the murals. 
More importantly, if one does not feel part of the "Notre Dame Family" because of these paintings (and that is all that they are), then we might as well be consistent about this movement for inclusivity. I suppose that all non-Irish students feel excluded because of the mascot. And much to the·chagrin of women, Notre Dame's "loyal daughters" are not mentioned in the fight song. Outrageous! 
It is my opinion that there are more pressing minority issues to be addressed than century old paint on a wall. Cultural awareness is not promoted by a group playing mommy and daddy to the free thinking adults on campus.
WENDYVESTEVICH 
SMC '96 Off-Campus 

Weekends need sensitivity 
This past weekend was Senior Dads weekend at Saint Mary's College. Because my father died, I felt it would be too difficult to stay at school this past weekend. My room­mate's father and brother both offered to be "my dad" for the weekend, but I felt that would just not be right. Although I am sure many women had a fantastic week­end with their fathers, and probably one they will always remember, but I think there happen to be a lot of students left out on these weekends. 
My sophomore year, my mother came up to school for Sophomore Parents weekend. This weekend, as like Junior Parents weekend at Notre Dame, must create a lot of heartache and tension for stu­dents. Those students whose parents are not together for divorce reasons or death, quite possibly find these week­ends to be very difficult. 
I believe on these weekends great memories are created for those students who have both parents, which get along, but I wonder how popular this really is. Maybe at the next parents weekend, the coordi­nators could acknowledge the fact that these weekends are not the easiest weekend that one might encounter for the duration of one's stay in South Bend. I think it is important to foster good relations with one's parents, and these weekends are a suitable time to do so. I do not ask to abol­ish these weekends, I just ask for the coordinators to be a bit more sensitive. 
KATIE GIBBS Le Mans Hall 

1 1 1 1 I I • 1 o I 1 ~ I I I I I I I I I I I I • ' 
'I I 
I I 1 I • I o 'I I I' I I \I I I I' I 



By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
In general, the more plentiful the opportunities are the more they are taken for granted. The reverse usually turns out to be true as well. 
When the Notre Dame offense takes the field of Giant Stadium tomorrow against Army, they would be well advised to take the latter outlook. 
"Army tries to make every game a eight possession game," Irish coach Lou Holtz noted. "In an average game, a team gets 13 possessions but they limit you to about eight. That means we have to take advantage of every one." 
On paper, that shouldn't be too much of a problem. If there is a Division I-A program with a smaller defensive front than the Irish, it's Army. The front seven Cadets average just 230 pounds. 
"They are undersized but they play hard," Holtz said. "They're well­coached and disciplined.;, 
Holtz was just as generous with his praise when discussing USMA inside linebacker Stephen King. 
"Let me tell you, Stephen King is a excellent player for them," Holtz said. "He plays hard every down." 
see NOTRE DAME/page 2 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 

Running the option has been a contro­versial issue at Notre Dame in recent years. 
Evidence suggests that Lou Holtz has achieved his greatest success when his team executes college football's arche­typal play. National championships have been the talk when Tony Rice and Kevin McDougal were at the helm. 
Present day quarterback Ron Powlus brings a different package than those nimble runners. yet despite his aerial talents, Holtz has doggedly kept the op­tion as part of the arsenal. 
At Army, conversely, blissful igno­rance protects the faithful from this debate. The option is not a play -it is a way of life. 
"The option is an offense based on execution," explained Holtz. "You can take inferior personnel, and if you exe­cute that sucker the right way, no one can stop you." 
Given that the Irish have better per­sonnel, the game may well turn on whether Notre Dame's defense has the patience to stay with their assignments. 
"To defend against the option, you 
see ARMYIpage 2 

-~------------------~--­
The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, October 13, 1995 
I I I I I 1 ''I 1 I I I 1 I I I 1 1 J 1 • 
I I I It • I. I I I I • I I I I I I j 'I I I • I 1 • I 1 

/'if,~-\ The option attack of Army has been a major headache to Lou Holtz and the Irish. 
No matter how much you work against it in practice, facing the quick-hitting option in game situa­tions is always a new look. 
The Irish linebackers will be the crucial factors in determining whether the option is defended 
~-­
against correctly. Their decisions will dictate the 
Photo courtesy of Army Sports Information 
reactions of every other Irish
Army tailback Steve Carpenter will be one of the 
defender. 

The Observer/Dave Murphy Kinnon Tatum will be a main focus in Notre Dame's effort to contain the option. 
Since the possessions very well might be limit­ed, the Irish best make sure they convert all scoring chances. 
"Against Washington, we had four drives in a row of over ten plays but we didn't score on any of them," said Holtz. "That means our offense has been executing but not producing. That needs to change. 
Missed field goals haven't helped matters but the fact remains that the Irish need to find the end zone on the ground more often to satisfy Holtz. 
With tailback Randy Kinder banged up, that responsibility falls on Marc Edwards and Autry Denson. 
Not only can Edwards be relied upon to con­vert the tough third, he has the ability to get into the secondary, as his 90-yard performance last week indicates. 
Denson not only is a frequent visitor to the sec­ondary, his speed is enough to get past the last line of defense. 
In 1993, the trifecta of freshmen Kinder, Edwards, and Farmer all had career days agsinst Navy. Denson may have a similar day 
tomorrow. 
featured backs in the Cadet option attack. 
Ar01y 
continued from page 1­
must be v.er:y well disciplined," stated Holtz, noting that one or two defenders must be assigned to each prong of the attack. 
To compliment the option's intricate strategy, Army also has dangerous per­sonnel in the backfield. Fullback John Conroy has been the most consistent per­former, bruising his way to 85.8 yards on the ground per game. 
The experienced offensive line will also pose problems for Notre Dame. "Most of their linemen will not be in the armor core because they can't fit in the tanks," quipped Holtz. 
The upside for Notre Dame is that the one option Army's offense does not include is the passing game. The Cadets average 292.3 yards on the ground, but only 65.8 through the air. Quarterback Ronnie McAda makes good decisions and has a strong arm for an option quar­terback, but is not often given the oppor­tunity to display his skills. 
Certainly Notre Dame's beleaguered secondary· cuuld use the rest. Despite 
Army's Wishbone vs. Notre Dame Linebackers
\ 
performing well against Washington's passing attack, the Irish enter Saturday's contest banged up, and may have to make some impromptu personnel changes to compensate. 
The position of free safety is especially worrisome, as Jarvis Edison remains on the shelf with a bruised abdomen and LaRon Moore is questionable with a strained calf. 
If he can't play, Corner Shawn Wooden will likely shift over, with sophomore Ivory Covington stepping in opposite Allen Rossum. 
Of greater concern to Holtz has been the penchant for giving up the big play. 
"I see a lot of improvement on defense, but until we stop the big play and play better on the goal-line, we will not be able to gain our confidence," he said. 
Big plays can go both ways, though, and Notre Dame's defense is dotted with playmakers. 
Stepping to the fore in recent weeks has been the linebacking tandem of Lyron Cobbins and Bert Berry, who accounted for 26 tackles between them in the win over the Huskies. 
Against Army, however, patience may prove a better option than reckless pur­suit. No pun intended. 


Inside linebackers Lyron Cobbins and Kinnon Tatum will be espe­cially visible. 
J arious Jackson did his best to imitate quarterback Ronnie McAda on the scout team, but he is not the only concern. 
Backs Steve Carpenter, Rashad Hodge and John Conroy will carry the ball the majority of the time for the Cadets. 
The play of Tatum and company will determine their success. 
-Tim Sherman 
Notre Da01e 
continued from page 1 

If Army is to keep the Irish in check, he may have to do that. 
His play will be key in determining what gives when it comes to the vaunted Irish ground game going up against the stingy Cadet defense. 
"They only give up about 108 yards per game on the ground," Holtz commented. "They kept Washington in check." 
Surprisingly enough, the Irish are particularly concerned with the smallish, yet pesky front three. 
"Washington's offensive line really didn't impress me against their line but they did against us," said Holtz. "That means they're pretty good." 
While Holtz has seen good things from Army, he is also fairly satisfied with the play of his offense. 
"Over the past five games, our offense has played pretty well. We just need to cut down on missed opportunities and elimanate the urnovers." 
I j 1 1 I I • I I I I I I I I I I I I • I •' 1, I I/ I • I I 1, I I I I • I I 1 1 1 t. I I I I Itt • t • t I I' • I 
Friday, October 13, 1995 



FIGHTIN 
NOTRE DAME 
• THE STRATEGIST • • • 
LOU HOLTZ

Sept. 2 NORTHWESTERN l, 17-15 Sept. 9 r; 'ai Purdue W, 35-28 
Sept.1(i<R~.·-,VANDERBILT W,41. -0 Tenth season at Notre Dame. Sept:-29-T\ TEXAS W, 55-27 Career Record: 203-92-7
f 

Sept. 30 . -~ at Ohio State l, 45·26 Against Army: 0-0 Oct. 7 ··.at Washington W, 29-21 Highlights: Reached 200-win OctJ4 Army'(Giants Stad.) 
milestone against Purdue. Guided Octil USC 
the Irish to a National 

Oct. 28 BOSTON COLLEGE 
Championship in 1988 and run­

Nov.L,. -~ NAVV--....::1 
ner-up finishes in 1989 and 1993.

Nov. 18 at Air Force 
• THE STATS • • • 
SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 Tot Notre Dame 24 69 32 76 201 Opponents 28 26 38 46 138 
TEAMSTATS NO Opp Firat downs 145 113 Total yards 2733 2176 T alai yard a per game 455.5 362.7 Total oHens1ve plays 458 387 Avg. yards par play 6.0 5.6 Rushing yarda 1393 1053 Rushing yards per game 232 176 Ruahlng playa 307 238 Pa88lng yarda 1340 1123 Passing yards per game 223 187 Passes completed 88 79 Paases anempted 151 149 Passes intercepted 5 6 Fumbles/ Fumblaalost 16/6 9/7 Penalties· Penalty yards 31-255 30-260 Third down converalOna 43-89 31-81 Percentage 48 38 Fourth down convers1ons 5-10 5-8 
RUSHING Ydo/Gm No Ydo Avg TO Lg K1nder 106.3 113 638 5.6 7 52 Farmer 49.3 33 148 4.5 1 22 Edwards 49.0 60 294 4.9 4 27 Denson 38.8 45 233 5.2 2 19 Thorne 8.5 2 34 17.0 0 30 Stokes 5.7 10 34 3.4 0 11 Powlua -5.3 34 -32 -0.9 0 8 PASSING Camp AU Pet Yda TO tnt Lg Powlus 88 151 58.3 1340 8 5 56 
RECEIVING Roc Ydo Avg TO Lg Mayo a 38 638 17.7 4 56 Edwards 17 225 13.2 1 30 Mosley 11 165 16.6 1 51 ChryplawiCz 6 114 14.3 0 28 Kinder 7 71 10.1 1 30 Wallace 52 13.0 0 35 Farmer 23 11.5 0 17 Danson 17 8.5 0 9 Soli mann 15 15.0 1 15 ALL-PURPOSE Kinder Mayas Mosley Edwards Farmer 
SCORING Kinder Kopka Edwards Mayes Ross urn Mosley Denson Edison Farmer Sollmann FIELD GOALS Kopka 
PUNTING 
H. Smith Palumbo 
KICKOFF RETURNS Mosley Farmer 
PUNT RETURNS Mosley Solimann 
INTERCEPTIONS Wooden Aossum 
Ruoh Roc Ret Tot Avg 638 71 5 714 119.0 5 638 0 643 107.2 25 185 406 616 102.7 294 225 0 519 66.5 148 23 42 213 71.0 
TO 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pta 8 0 0-0 0 0 48 0 0 21-22 6 0 39 5 1 0-0 0 0 32 1 0-0 0 0 26 1 0-0 0 0 14 0 0-0 0 0 12 0 0-0 0 0 12 0 0-0 0 6 0 0-0 0 6 0 0-0 0 6 Tot 6-10 
No Avg Bk Lg 20 37.5 0 58 1 18.0 0 16 
No Avg m Lg 11 28.7 0 50 2 21.0 0 26 
No Avg TO Lg 5 18.0 1 64 7 6.1 0 24 
No 3 2 
Magee, Monahan, Moore  1  
DEFENSE  T  A  Tot  FC  FR  PBU  Sac  
Cobbins  52  18  70  0  0  2  0.0  
Berry  32  11  43  1  0  2  0.5  
Grasmanls  17  21  38  0  2  1  3.5  
Moore  20  17  37  0  1  2  0.0  
Tatum  21  15  36  0  0  1  0.5  
Magee  19  14  33  t  0  5  0.0  
Bannan  16  12  30  0  0  0  0.0  
Wynn  22  7  29  1  0  0  2.5  
Wooden  16  12  28  0  0  3  0.0  
Aossum  13  9  22  0  0  0  0.0  
Minor  13  7  20  0  Q  0  3.0  

CADETS 


• THE STRATEGIST • • • 

BOB SUTTON 
Ffith season at Army Career Record: 20-27-1 Against Opponent: 0-0 Highlights: Defensive minded Sutton's focus is now on fine-tuning the option attack that has become an Army staple. The Cadets are 5th nationally in terms of yardage per game. 
ALL·PURPOSE Rush Roc Ret Tot Avg

• THE SlATS 
Thomas 33 95 268 396 99.0 Conroy 343 23 0 366 91.5 

SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 Tot Young 66 0 82 168 84.0 
Army 27 13 44 13 97 Thompson 109 0 0 109 54.5 
Opponents 13 20 24 17 74 MeAd a 176 0 0 176 44.0 Carpenter 161 13 0 174 43.5 
TEAMSTATS Army Opp Hodge 127 32 0 -159 39.8 
First downs 76 72 Total yards 1432 1299 
SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sst Pto 

Total yarda per game 358.0 324.8 
Parker 0 0 8-8 7 0 29Total oHen11ve plays 284 248 Conroy 3 0 0-0 0 0 18 Avg. yards par play 4.9 5.2 

Carpenter 2 1 0-0 0 0 14 

Rushing yardo 1169 441 Rulh1ng yarda par game 292.3 110.3 
FIELD GOALS 0-29 3G-39 4()-49 50+ Tot Ruahlng plays 246 131 Pal1<er 2-2 1-2 4-5 0-0 7-9

Pasa1ng yards 263 858 Pa8811'Q yarda par game 65.8 214.5 
PUNTING No Avg Bk LgP888aa completed 23 74 Hughes 18 31.7 0 49 Paaaes attempted 48 117 

Pasaos Intercepted 1 4 KICKOFF RETURNS No Avg TO LgFumbles I Fumbl08 lost 3/2 8/3 Young 1 82.0 1 82Penalties-Penalty yards 16-123 22-211 Thomas 10 26.8 0 52 
Third down converaiOns 30-71 20-50 Triano 1 9.0 0 9
Percentage 42 40 Fourth down converakma 6-9 1-4 
PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Cantelupe 4 6.8 0 12 

RUSHING Ydo/Gm No Ydo Avg TO Lg Conroy 85.8 70 343 4.9 3 28 
INTERCEPTIONS No 

Thompaon 54.5 14 109 7.8 0 56 Cantelupe 2 McAda 44.0 47 176 3.7 1 28 S. King 1Young 43.0 12 86 7.2 0 43 
Gay 1 Carpenter 40.3 39 161 4.1 2 21 
Hodge 31.8 16 127 7.9 1 74 DEFENSE T A Tot FC FR PBU SacPASSING Camp AU Pet Ydo TO tnt Lg S. King 17 10 27 0 0 0 0.0 
McAda 22 45 48.9 254 1 1 35 Calame 8 17 25 0 1 0 3.5 
Thompson 1 3 33.3 9 0 0 9 Gay 20 4 24 0 0 7 0.0 Cantalupo 15 7 22 1 0 0 0.0 
RECEIVING Rae Ydo Avg TO Lg Kotwica 15 6 21 0 0 0 0.0 
Thomaa 8 95 11.9 0 30 
Colds now 10 9 19 0 0 0 0.0 loahlnakl 4 51 12.8 1 35 
Roberta 8 7 15 0 0 1 3.5 

Graves 3 30 10.0 0 13 
Eichelberger 13 1 14 0 0 0 1.0 Carpenter 3 13 4.3 0 6 
nHord 9 4 13 0 0 0 0.0 

Hodge 2 32 18.0 0 17 Tomaslis 9 3 12 0 1 2 0.0
Conroy 2 23 11.5 0 12 Doutt 8 2 10 0 0 0 1.0 
Brtzlc 1 19 19.0 0 19 Maddox 8 2 10 0 0 0 0.0 
A position bypositton look at who holds the advantage 
~~ Quarterbacks D 
When Ron Polwus throws for 200 yards and '2 touchdowns and it's a bad day, you're doing some­thing right. Cadet Ronnie McAda is a leader.. 
~~Running BacksD 
Granted, Army's backs boast solid numbers bur even with the chance of Randy Kinder sitting out, any coach would prefer the NO backfield. 
~~ Receive~ D 
5 $ee Powlus. 7 grabs, 132 yards and 2 TDs " comprised one of Derrick Mayes' worst games. Not bad. Cadet receivers don't see the ball. 
~~Offensive Line~ 
w Both squads bring ground games that are among .·the best in the country. Much of that can be ;.~~tf1buted to th!! boys up front.
IllDefensive LineD 
Probably the most pleasant surprise for the Irish ;rhas been the consistent play of the front four. If you thought they were small, check out Army. 
~~ Linebackers D 
A very competent Lyron Cobbins will have the duty of making the calls against the option. Counterpart Stephen King makes plays. 
D Secondary 


The Irish secondary probably will see little action in the air but need to improve upon tackling fun­damentals. Cadet safeties are. sound. 
D Special Tea~s ~ 
Army's Ron Thomas is a big threat of kick returns, while placekicker J. Parker gets the job done. Kevin Kopka's missed FG's·must disappear. 
~~ Coaching ~ 
There is little doubt as to the quality of the Irish staff, but the Army coaches are exceptional at squeezing every bit of talent from their troops. 
....... 
II ~ ~ I Overall 
D 

.--..111111 
¥i.Jhe talent gap is just too much for Army to over­
£1h ·-. . ...
·!come.-. ·_ ·" ... " -Tim Sherman 

------~--------------------­
I I I o I I I o o I I I I I I I • I I I I • I ' I ' ~

... 
1
1 1, 1 I 1 I, o I 1 o I I I I o 1 o I , o o I I 1 I 

1 I It\ I I I' I 
I o I I 1 I, o, I o o I I I \,I o I\ 

I' • o 0 t I I l I I 
1 
page4 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA Friday, October 13, 1995 
I ­
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
t 
I I I I I I I 
• JOCK STRIP 


#3 FLORIDA at #7 AUBURN Gator coach Steve Spurrier will be looking to end his 
Tradition precedes 
PREY-

personal Bowden jinx. With a win, Auburn can erase
TEAM RECORD POINTS 10us 

an early-season loss to LSU and jump back into the
Army teams of today 
1. Florida St. (40) 5-0-0 1527 1 

A 
SEC title race. m • .------, Army has proven to 
2. Nebraska (16) 5-0-0 1490 2 r ~ · s be a doormat on 

#4 OHIO STATE at #21 WISCONSIN:ui~e ~a: which teams wipe 
3. Florida (2) 5-0-0 1406 3 

Coming off two huge victories, the Buckeyes will be 
4. Ohio State 5-0-0 1386 5 
ix pictures their feet in prepara­looking to avoid a letdown against the Badgers. A win 

5. Southern Cal 5-0-0 1321 5 
on the cover. Five tion for their con-will keep OSU in the national title hunt. 


, 6. Tennessee 5-1-0 1187 10
are in black and ference schedules. 
' 7. Auburn 4-1-0 1177 11
white. The sixth is You know a team's 

#6 TENNESSEE vs. #12 AlABAMA the Cadets' featured in bad shape when it 
) 8. Kansas State 5-0-0 1044 13 

Peyton Manning can come to the forefront of the player, defensive . bases its entire season muddled Heisman race with a stellar performance 
9. Colorado 5-1-0 1017 4 
Sports Editor on whether or not it 

against an always stingy Tide defense. The game will back Jim Cantelupe. 
10. Kansas 5-0-0 895 24 
The old photos can beat Navy. 

be played in Birmingham instead of Tuscaloosa. 
11. Michigan 5-1-0 809 7
remind fans that Army's a But at the same time, you 
12. Alabama 4-1-0 765 16
team steeped in tradition. But have to admire it. It's a tradi­

#13 OKLAHOMA vs. #18 TEXAS getting back to the old days is tion that America loves. On 
13. Oklahoma 4-1-0 757 14 

This good ol' rivalry will feature two ranked teams for quite a steep hill to climb, as the last weekend of the year, 
14. Northwestern 4-1-0 682 25 

the first time in recent memory. It will be a matchup it has been for years. all eyes are glued to the tele­
of speed against speed, especially at the quarterback The Cadets were once on vision watching a game that 
15. Oregon 4-1-0 663 17 

position in the Cotton Bowl. 
16. Stanford 4-0-1 565 19 
top of the college football has no national implications, 
17. Notre Dame 4·2·0 508 23
world, winning three national save the millions that want 

• PEERlESS PROGNOSTICATORS
18. Texas 4-1-0 490 20
championships between their branch of service to be 19. Virginia 5-2-0 482 9
1944-46. World War II was victorious. There's a sense of pride 
20. Penn State 3-2-0 447 12 America has in watching
good for service academies. 
"My dad was in the Navy, 
21. Wisconsin 2-1-1 385 22 
Army play. Sure, they have amy uncles were predominant­
22. Texas A&M 2-2-0 360 8
1-2-1 record this year, but
ly in the Army, though one 
23. Iowa 4-0-0 199 ..
they always play hard. Theywas in the Marines," Irish 
24. Washington 3-2-0 103 15
emulate every high schoolcoach Lou Holtz said. 
coach's dream. 
"Naturally, with the Army­
CJM
It's almost unfortunate thatNavy thing, you follow it." 

Tim Seymour Mike Norbut Tim Sherman
the Cadet teams of recent his­
But today, the Cadets, 

(17-11) (10-18) (20-8)
• THE IRISH EXTRA STAFF
tory have always had ·the
much like their archrival ghosts of the great teams of
Midshipmen, are dinosaurs in 

Notre Dame Notre Dame Notre Dame the college football world. 
Editor: Mike Norbut 
the past following them out 
Managing Editor: Tim Sherman 

Florida Florida Auburn
on the field. It seems thatThey're still firm believers in 
Associate Editor: Tim Seymour 
Notre Dame makes its ownthe standard that hearts and 

Wisconsin Ohio State Ohio State work win football games. 
history year in and year out. 
Graphic Design: Chris Mullins 

Tennessee Tennessee Tennessee
Army might be on the 50­
That worked in day's past, 
Production: Thomas Schlidt but they've learned that in 
year cycle. 

Texas Oklahoma Texas-
Contributing Writers:
But that could mean it's
recent times, you need talent. 
Andy Cabiness 
about time for some Cadet
Notre Dame has proven that it can adapt to the times. 
dominance. Or maybe not. 


-~ 
Papa Predicl1: 
l Notre Dame 42 
~­

Army 10 ''The Most Popular # on Campus'' Notre Dame Saint Mary's I University Villaae 271-1177 271-7272 
Remember to call your Papa over break! 
Notre Dame Store Hours 


Mon-Th 
I lam-lam 

to caJJ ~~:.~:m 
Fri-Sat llam-3am 
SundaySun Noon-lam

~Your PaPa!
Noon-lam 



r -----, r -p;,;;p;; -, r Lat:'N#;sii:lai , r La"rge flopping , r -Lu;;ch§p';;ia/ , 
I  Large  I I  4Large  I I  Large  I I  Bread Stix  I I 1 Small 2Topping I  
I  1Topping Pizza  I I 1Topping Pizzas  I I  1Topping Pizza  I I  2 Cokes  I I  2 Cokes  I  
:  $695 . : : $2295~ ::  $5~!":: : $1000. : :  $695 .. :  

L-----.J L-----.J L-----:..1 L-----.J L-----.J 
*From 1:OOam -3:00am (Fri/Sat Only) Call the ND Store for Delivery Service 
'f I I 0 'o''' 'o' 


t I I I I I I I' I I I. 1 1 1, I, t I I, t 
ACC~NT 

Friday, October 13, 1995 

By GREG BARLIN 
Accent Writer 
A
cramped room. Loud music. Black lights. Alcohol. 
Do these words describe a typical weekend ·night for you? If they do, you're not alone. The majority of the students here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's enjoy drinking alcohol and attending parties each weekend. Some students drink because they like to; oth­ers drink because they believe there is little else to do on campus. 
During Freshman Orientation every year, Patty O'Hara gives an eloquent speech proclaiming to concerned par­ents and unsuspecting freshmen that alcohol is strictly forbidden on the Notre Dame campus. She passionately reviews the rules eoncerning alcohol as written in du Lac, and she informs students of the conse­quences of alcohol con­sumption. After parents leave and school begins, freshmen soon encounter the truth: alcohol is a very large part of the soeial life at Notre Dame. 
Alcohol, however, is not the only alternative for students at Notre Dame. elub exists on this whose focus is to offer a variety of fun activities that do not involve the use of alcohol. The club is Flip Side. 
After many unsuccessful attempts over the last sev­eral years, Flip Side was finally formed last year primarily through the effort of Mary Pelzer, a junior and current co-presi­dent. "Mary did something I could never do," says John Gunnigle, her fellow co-presi­dent. "She started something out of nothing." 
Flip Side was originally designed as an oiTshoot of S.A.D.D. on campus, but Pelzer was determined to separate it and have it stand as its own club. Last year the club consisted of only 20 to 25 members, many of whom were fresh­men and sophomores from Notre Dame. T)lis year .Flip Side has emerged as a significant part of the Notre Dame envi­ronment. The club has grown dramati­cally, posting over 150 members from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, plus an additional 500 students that are not yet members but who signed up and will likely attend an activity this semester. 
While many Flip Side members avoid alcohol, it is not a strictly anti-alcohol group. Being alcohol-free is not a pre­requisite for admission into the club. Flip Side openly accepts all students who wish to join the group for an activi­ty. "We're not out to stamp out drink­ing," says Gunnigle. "We just provide something different to do." Drinking is excessive on the Notre Dame campus, and students soon find out that there is little else to do. Flip Side otTers a haven from drinking one weekend night per week. 
"There are two types of people we tar­get as members," says the current presi­dent. "One group are those people with no interest 
n 
drink­ing. The other group are those people who previously didn't drink but would start at Notre Dame because of the lack of alternatives." Flip Side wants people who would rather not drink to know that they have a place where they can go. Many students would agree that it's difficult to meet people at Notre Dame, primarily people of the opposite sex, if one does not drink. Flip Side enables students to meet other people just like themselves with whom they can socialize and become friends. "We noticed people who didn't drink were having trouble finding fun things to do," says Gunnigle. "We wanted to provide a place where those people could hang out." 

What exactly does Flip Side do? This year the club has been on a hay ride, country line dancing, and bowling. Upcoming activities include an 80's dance on Oct. 28, ice skating at the JACC on Nov. 10, and an interactive comedy game 
show on 
Dec. 2. In 
addition, a bonus 
event has been planned. On Nov. 3, "Country Line Dancing 2" will take place in the LaFortune Ballroom. Since many of the activities Flip Side sponsors are off campus, freshmen and other students without cars have the ability to get away and see the city for a night. The club always provides free transportation to all events. 
When John Gunnigle was asked what he would tell people who had never been out with Flip Side, he responded by saying, "We're crazier than drunk peo­pie!" Many Flip Siders would back him up on this statement. Flip Side members love to have fun. Whether it's cramming eighteen people into a ten passenger van, pasting insulting notes on the back of Vice President Dave McGuire at bowl­ing, or singing obnoxious songs on a hay ride, the club members don't need alco­hol to go nuts. Gunnigle sums it all up, "Our Historian Jennifer Yost made up a motto that I think accurately describes Flip Side: 'We're not drunk ...no, really, we're not!'" 
"The best part of Flip Side," says Gunnigle without hesitation, "is the peo­ple." The unique members of Flip Side make the club a success at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Flip Side possesses an outstanding quality: all members are able and encouraged to help with the planning and promotion of activities. One does not need to be an officer to play an integral role in the func­tion of the club. Although the officers were chosen at the end of last year. even freshmen have had the ability to hold office this year as "officer's 
assistants." 
Semester dues for Flip 
Side are five dollars. 
embers are then enti­
led to a discount of at 
one dollar on every 
event. The cost of the 
events is one of the most 
glaring negatives of Flip 
Side. Almost all activities 
cost money -money 
some students simply 
don't have. The overall 
cost for the year is mini­
mal, but it still exists. If 

students participated in 
the same activities outside 
of the club, however, the 
cost would be much higher. 
Flip Side often receives group 
rates and lower fares which 
enable students to have fun for 
less money. 
Flip Side has a significant impact on 
the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cam­puses. The club reduces the number of people drinking on campus by providing an alternative source of fun. It also pro­vides an outlet through which a student can interact with and meet hundreds of other students. Through Flip Side, expe­riences are shared and long-lasting friendships are developed -friendships that often extend far beyond the ac­tivities of the club. 
Gunnigle has an optimistic view of the future of Flip Side. "We're like a rocket going through space," he says. "We're big." In the second semester, Flip Side is looking forward to a casino night and a trip to Chicago as likely activities. Until then, this group will continue to have fun and act "crazier than drunk people" wherever they go. 
\ \\ ', \ ', I! I I • • • I I I I I\ 1 I I 1 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 13, 1995 
Zahm stays undefeated with triumph over St. Ed's 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
On Thursday night, Zahrn stepped on the field to defend its winning streak. Both Zahrn's offense and defense proved to strong for St. Edwards to overcome as Zahrn prevailed 25-0. 
Matt Bundick scored two touchdowns for the Rabid Bats. For his first, Bundick ran it up the middle and cut to the outside breaking tackles to reach the end zone. Bundick was the highlight of the Zahrn offense with numerous yards 

gained through his rushing efforts. the second half. Fisher prevailed in this 
"We played really well . .------....,..---------, battle 7-0. We are going to need to On Sarin's first offen­step it up a notch before sive possession, the the playoffs," stated out-Otters drove the length of side linebacker Schaller. 
the field. Quarterback 
Chris Bryant threw up a Fisher 7, Sorin 0 pass but was intercepted. There was no one except Sorin carne out fired up a Fisher defensemen, to win its matchup with who was wide open. Fisher. The Otters defi-Then Fisher marched nitely were more fired up '-------....310'----------' down the field,. relying for the first half, but Fisher dominated mostly on their running game. The Ot­
ters shut down Fisher's running game on fourth down. Later in the game, Fisher finally broke through the Otters' defense. 
Alumni 14, Carroll 0 

Alumni's offense proved to be to strong for Carroll. The Dawgs were lead by running backs Matt Marnrnolenti and Dan Olson. Carroll's offense could not get anything started. The Dawgs' offense dominated the game, and lifted the team to a 14-0 triumph. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 121151 Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 Prices Increase 11/21 & 1211511-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel 1·800-678­6386 
ILOST & FOUND I 
BIG REWARD.for info. leading to 
the return of bike "taken" Oct. 2 
behind Cav. hall: sky blue. schwinn 
10 spd.• 70's model, big sentimen­
tal value -call 4-3504 
LOST-gold bracelet of extremely 
sentimental value. Call Ricky at 4­
1152 if found. BIG REWARD 
Black Bike Lock Key on leather cord to fit around neck. Please call 273·6508 (Sara), or return to Lafortune Info desk. 
WANTED 
AlPERS WANTED NY/NJ to NO 
I am flying home and buying a car, 
but if I drive it back alone !think I 
will probably crash it. No gas $ 
nee., bull need you to spell me at 
the wheel. Smokers welcome. 
Call Josh@ 277-9071 
• • • FREE TRIPS & CASH • • • Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with America's #I Spring Break compa­ny! Sell only 15trips·and travel free!· Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAV­EL (800)95-BREAK! 
Wanted! 
Individuals, Student Organizations 
to Promote 
SPRING BREAK Earn MONEY and 
FREE TRIPS 
CALL INTER-CAMPUS PRO· 
GRAMS 
http://www .icpt.com 
1-800-327-6013 
Seeking in home child care for an 
adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk 
M·Th. 631-6561. 
HELP WANTED addressing 
envelopes. Work at your residence 
in your spare time. $250+/week 
possible! (310)804-5587 24 hrs. 
Part-time writer/editor with 2 kids 
(ages: 3,8) needs creative, ener­
getic, child-care person who's good 
with kids. Access to car needed. 5­
8 hrs/week, late afternoons. 
$5.50/hr. 273-1702 after 5 
Collector looking for 1995 magnetic 
football schedule. Will pay over 
cost. Please call X11 03 
$35,000/YR. INCOME potential. 
Reading books. T::>ll Free 800-898­
9778 Ext. R-2013 for details. 
$40,000/YR. INCOME potential. 
Home typists/PC users. Toll Free 
800-898-9778 Ext. T-2013 for list­
ings. 
LosAngelesl Need someone to drive a '91 Camry 6 cyl. to LosAngeles. Arrive there anytime before Nov. 3rd. (219) 233-3711. 
BABYSIITER NEEDED IN OUR HOME FOR SMALL CHILD A COUPLE OF AFTERNOONS A WEEK. WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 232-2595 
ARIST NEEDED Interested in painting a portrait based from a picture? I need someone immediately! It's for a wedding gift. Call Laura at 273-2768 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR ND 232-2595 
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located in Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1·800-418­9487 
ROOM IN QUIET, CLEAN HOME. SAFE AREA. KITCHEN PRIV. FEMALE ONLY. $200/MO. 
282-2576. 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 
LAST CHANCE LODGING FOR HOME GAMES: Three-bed Bed and Breakfast 5 min. from campus. Gingerbread cottage charm. Reasonable rates. Two night minimum. 232-2672 
Bed & Breakfast Room with private bath. Accomodates two. For NO and SMC parents and friends. 277­6323. 
FOR SALE 
1994 Suzuki Swift GA. 3 DR, Stick,Biue,18,000 Miles,$ 6,700 Call after 3:30, 277-8115 
NO Ski Team T-Shirtsl 
-*-.-""-*-*-*-..-..-..-*-..-.-* ...... -.... -.­
Really cool and only $1 01 Call Potter @ 232-2955 today!! I Great for you, your roomie, or Christmas presents! 
ALPINE CAR CD PLAYEA NEW $550 SELL $250 CALL BRENT 273-6183 
!@#$#"%."&%#@ @#$$% If you like BASS, you'll like this 150watt15" SUBWOOFER Cai14-1668 #@$%&".(()"&"%#$#$ 
LAZ-BOY DOUBLE RECLINING LOVESEAT & matching RECLIN­ER, contemporary style and color, excellent condition, 6 yrs. old, paid $1500 sell for $350 O.B.O. Call 273-0334. Will deliver to doorstep. 
TICKETS 
############# HEY YOU! I need 2 GA's or stud tix for USC game!! PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE!! CALL ME-Lisa 284-5147 I'll be here over fall break-so call me!! HEYYOUI! ############### 
I NEED BCTIX CALL DAVID @ 272-7327 THANK YOU 
HELP!! I need 2 GA's or Stud Tix for USC or the BC game!! Will pay good $$ Call 284-5117 I'll be here over fall break-so calli! 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS GA'S TO ANY/ALL HOME/AWAY GAMES. 219·232-0061, 24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. WANTED GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. BUY•SELL*TRADE (219) 232·0058 · 24 HAS. 
I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272·6306 
NEED TICKETS 2 USC and 2 NAVY G.A.'S Call Sean x2153 
Wanted: 4 tickets together-any home game Wanted: 2 tickets ND-USC Call 1-800·922-BEAR day 1-502-354-8826 collect in evening 
NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A. Please call Anne 634-3445. 
NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE 
X4905 
..........PLEASE HELP!***UiiU'Iritil 
•NEED 1 NAVY GA!' ·cALL COLLEEN AT X2191• 
NEED BC TKT WILL TRADE USC TKT OR PAY$$$ CALL KELLI X4044 
need USC tix, stud or GA. Will PAY $or TRADE for NAVY GA"S. call3676 
I NEED BC & USC GA'S CALL 288-2877 
Wanted: 5 tickets to the Navy game. Either GA's or Students. Am willling to pay $$$$. Call Brian at x3061. 
Need one GA for Boston College. Willing to pay $$$$$$. Call Julie at 284-5170. 
Need ARMY tix!l Karen x3723 
I'M DESPERATE for your BC GA's Please call ALISA 271-8346 
NEED NAVY TIX! AMY 616-473-2636 
Desperately need 4 Navy GA'slll If I don't get them, my family won't pay for the operation to save my life. Call Mark at x1590. 
Need 2 USC tix-Have 2 BC or 2 Navy GAs to trade Also have $$$$ Call Sara x4096 
NEED NO-USC GA TIX. CALL JOE @ 287-4561 BEFORE 10 PM. 
I need tickets to USC, BC, and Navy. Please call Bryan. 272-4249 
Need NAVY GA's Chris x4010 
I HAVE 2 50YRD LN BC TIX GA and 4 GA NAVY TIX. I NEED 4 USC TIX STD/GA. call Davex2100 
Need 1·2 USC GA's x1426 
I HAVE USC STUD TIX 4 SALE 1-6696 
I NEED BC TICKETS -STUDENT OR GAl!II PLEASE call Megan at x4268 
2 Navy GA's for 2 BC GA's. 273-9176. 
Need USC tickets (4) call #4814-Erica 
Dad & Co. Coming for USC... 
Need tickets-PLEASE HELP!! GAs or Student. 
Rob2734674 
WILL TRADE TWO NO BC FIELD TICKETS FOR TWO USC GA'S. CALL CRAIG@ 233-1161 OR 
234-7378. 
Need BC & Navy tix. Stud/GA's. 282-1638. 
FOR SALE 
(2) USC MARRIED STD TIX JEREMY 4-3666 
I NEED USC STUD'S AND GA'S 
PAUL X5113 
Need two Navy Tickets 
Call Lara at x4416 
I NEED USC studenttix 
call Doug x1835 
NEED 4 NAVY GA's. Call Paul 
collect at (216) 974-7142. 
USC STUD FOR SALE OR 
TRADE (NAVY) 
CHRISTIAN 4X0506 
Need USC GAs 
Jeanne x4341 
I I I NEED USC GA'SI I I 
WILL PAY$$$. CALL 634-3676! 
BADLY NEED USC GA'S. CALL 
DEANA AT 4267 ASAP. GOOD 
OFFERS. 
I NEED USC tix! I HAVE BC stud tix to trade. I will be here over break to discuss a swap! Amyx4836 
NEED USC stud tix 
NEED BCGA's 
273-8709 
Trade 2 BC GA's for 2 USC GA's? 
Call Tom@ 259-7641 
Need 2 USC Ga's-Call Phil 
@x3591 
Need 3 B.C. and 3 Navy GA's Jon • 287-0578 
I HAVE 3 STUDENT TICKETS TO USC!Ill Call Sean today or next Friday at x3664 
111!1!!1!!!11!!!1!!!1!111!1!!!!!!11111111111111111!1!11!1 IIIII! USC STUDENT TICKET FOR SALE. B.O. BRENT 273-6183 11111!1111111111!11!1!!!111111111111111111111111111111111 !IIIII 
$$USC TICKETS WANTED $$ 
BIG$$$$$$ PAID 277-1659$$ 
I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 
Need 1 USC Ticket Student or 
GA. Call Anne x4896. 
$$ PLEASE HELP $$ 
'94 NO ALUM NEEDS 
BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX 
CALL 516-326-2659 
I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM 
LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR 
USC STUDENT TICKETS. 
If you have USC tix, call 
Tom atx3893 HELP! HELP! HELP! HELP! I NEED USC AND BC TIX as many as possible, 

students or GAs please call NORM @ 232·2955 Thanks for your Support! 
****************************** 
NO ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 28. CALL COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­NYMIKE@AOL.COM 
HELP! HELP! HELP! Alumnus des­perately needs 5 USC tix. Please call215-988-1788 day, or 215-836­9150 home. 
Needed: 2 USC studenttix. Call 
Jason at x-1079. 
TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX needed: 1 BC ticket (stu or GA) call dan at 273-6183 if you can help out. thanx. TIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIXTIX 
I NEED USC TIX 
KEVIN @ 234-2952 
HELP! NEED 2 NAVY GA'S FOR 
VISITING PARENTS. CALL 4­
0714. 
NEED LOTS OF USC TIX. 
WILL PAY$$. PLEASE CALL 
SARAH-X2865 
Need 2 USC tix. std or GA Call 
Rob x1581. 
$ $ 

I Need USC tix 
-Bryan x1919 
$ $ 

Need USC GA's-Jeff x1828 
Need BC tickets. 
Call Joe at X1610. 
I need USC Tickets. 
Call Joe at X1846. 
Need 4 USC GAs Chad X3384 
Desparetely seeking USC tix. 
Have a BC ticket to offer. 
Please call Kevin at·x2104 
Desperately seeking 
3NAVYGAs. 
Will pay BIG BUCKS. 
Call Ryan x0566. 
NEED 4 USC STD TIX CALL x2855 
USC student ticket for sale to 
best offer by Friday 3 PM. Call 
Brian at x-3549 and leave best 
offer. 
FOR SALE N.D. G As 
call271-9412 
s 
A pair of married stud. booklet for 
sale. Leave message and offer at 
271-8648. 
Need Tickets For USC Will Pay$ Call Dave 272-8805 
I need USC GA'S: Please call Kelly 4-5113 
I need B.C. tixlll Either GA or stu­
denttix will dol Call Tim at 634­
1148 GO IRISH! 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
NEED 6 USC GA's 
Will pay top dollar for pairs or 
groups. 
634-3252 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
I NEED USC, BC & NAVY 
GA'S.272-6306 
PERSONAL 
0c0c0c0c0c0c0a0c0c0c0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLVIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0a0 
If you see BRIDGETTE FARRELL at the USC game, don't forget to wish her a happy 21st! 
Ann Keough is 211! Happy Birthday! 
DeReamer-Bummer that your birthday is over break. We'll have to celebrate when we get back. Happy 22ndl Love, your old roommie : ) 
LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATIONS are due 5:00PM Friday, Oct. 13 
Where are you taking this ... thing? Prisoner transfer from Block one­one-three-eight. I wasn't notified. I'll have to clear it. Look out! He's loose! He's going to pull us all apart .. Go get him! We've got to find out which cell this princess of yours is in. Here it is ... cell twenty-one-eight­seven. You go get her. I'll hold them here. Everything is under control. Situation normal. What happened? Uh ... had a slight weapons malfunc­tion. But, uh, everything's perfectly all right now. We're fine. We're all fine here, now, thank you. How are you? We're sending a squad up. Uh, uh, negative. We had a reactor leak here now. Give us a few min­utes to lock it down. Large leak ... very dangerous. Who is this? What's your operating number? Boring conversation anyway. 
I am NOT Italian! -Potter (the real one) 
I think I hit the kitty. Oh darn. -Fereday 
Thank you St.Jude for prayers answered. 
Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
TRAVEL FREE FOR SPRING BREAK '96 Form a group of 15 and travel FREE + earn $$$ CANCUN, SOUTH PADRE, BAHAMAS, FLORIDA, CARNIVAL CRUISES. Food and Drinks includ­ed. (800)574-7577 ext. 302 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY ANDREA! LOVE 4TH FLOOR FARLEY 
KIM: have a happy week before happy pumpkin day! KYLA: wazzupppppp?l?!? SARAH: let me tell you somethin', darlin': you look marvelous!!! TA-KNEEL: how do you spell your name anyways? 
Yeah A-Nut!73 days & 73 nights­then TWICE as nice in one night! 
Texas-Once again I miss your birthday! You'll just have to sit on ice! Your second personal-you owe me big time! Happy Birthday! Jersey 
Kidde I found him!! · An lllinios Farmer 

Friday, October 13, 1995 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
was to be a showdown for the first and sec­ond ranked teams in the country. 
"Our two teams will just go and play. Outside of our teams, I'd have to say that there's never been more hype for a game in women's soccer history," Petrucelli said. 
The key to the weekend may just be the Duke game this afternoon. Notre Dame simply cannot overlook the Blue Devils. Duke is presently ranked 11th in the coun­try with an 8-4 record. The Devils have an All-American forward in Kelly Walbert, who leads a very explosive offensive attack. They also have a solid goalkeeper in senior Melissa Carr. a four year starter. 
But as their reeord indicates, they are not a perfeetteam. 
"We're going to get chances against Duke, and we're going to have to take advantage of those chances," Petrueelli predicted. "We have to put the ball in the net when we have the opportunity to do 
so." 
. Notre Dame has had success in the past against Duke. Last season, the Irish blanked the Blue Devils 5-0 behind Jen Henola's steady net play. While a shutout may be difficult, the Irish defense should be up to the ehallenge. Henola, sweeper Ashley Scharff, and defenders Kate Fisher and Kate SobrBro havB allowed only eight goals this season, fivB of which came in the ovBrtime loss to Connecticut. 
Fatigue may be an interesting factor on Sunday, when the showdown begins. On Friday, North Carolina faces 12th-ranked William and Mary, who will give them a tough game. Thus, whichever team recov­ers quicker from Friday's opponent will have an advantage. 
North Carolina is not the top-rated team in the country because they have nice uni­forms. They have one of the most potent offenses and dominating defenses in soc­cer, the eombination of which has proved disastrous for opponents this season. The Tarheels have outscored their opponents 55-2 in 12 games this season. 
The offense is led by junior Debbie Keller, who has 34 points on the year, tops iH the ACC. She is joined by sophomore Robin Confer, who has netted twelve goals and tallied 31 points thus far. 

Sophomore Staci Wilson has dominated opposing attackers, and is a key component of the Tarheel defensive dominance. She is considered by some to be the best defender in the country. 
"Staci has been awesome," commented North Carolina coach Anson Dorrance. "In my opinion she is clearly the top defender in the country. In fact, she may be the best defender in the history of our program." 
"We have a definite advantage in the midfield. They're going to have to be solid in the back to keep us from scoring goals," Petrucelli said. 
So, the Irish success in this game once again boils down to ball control. When North Carolina has the ball, they're like a freight train going full steam ahead. The Irish must keep the ball to stifle the potent Carolina attack and provide their offense with scoring opportunities. 

"The whole weekend will be a challenge for our team. Notre Dame obviously has great talent all over the field. They took a hit already. but that will likely give them an even greater incentive to prove themselves against us," Dorrance said. 
Entering this weekend, the Irish are ranked 6th in the country. With two wins, there's no telling where they'll be next. Get ready for high noon. 
page 11 

Hoops 
continued from page 16 
the enthusiasm, though, with a quick dose of reality. 
"We have a lot of question marks going into the season, and we will be going up against teams that are estab­lished," conceded MacLeod. 
Also established in the Big East is the atmosphere that surrounds each conference game, which are played with the intensity normally at­tributed to family disputes. 
"There will have to be a change in attitude," said MacLeod. "Playing teams on an independent basis is not the same as playing them battling for conference position." 
"In the past there hasn't been much to look for in terms of short term results," added senior captain Ryan Hoover . "Now that we are in a confer­ence, every game becomes that much more important." 
Handling this constant pres­sure will likely depend on whether the youthful inexperi­ence of the Irish matures over the course of the season. Hoover is the only three-year letter winner, and freshmen Gottlieb and Gary Bell, a highly touted small forward, are slat­ed to see significant minutes. 
Another unknown regards how the Irish will respond to the physical play that has long characterized Big East basket­ball. 
''I'm really impressed by the power of Big East teams on the front lines," said MacLeod. "A question will be, 'Can we keep teams orr the offensive glass?'" 
That responsibility will shouldered by the center-by­committee rotation of juniors Matt Gotsch, Marcus Young, and freshman Phil Hickey. 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 13, 1995 
Gerardo 
continued from page 16 
give credit for a lot of those things to ·my ·teammates be­cause without them passing me the ball and giving me those chances , I would have not been able to put them away." 
Gerardo has put away three game winning goals through the first twelve games including the scores in 1-0 victories over Wisconsin and No. 7 Santa Clara. 
Last Sunday, Gerardo's goal made the difference after a dis­mal offensive showing by the Irish in the first half. 
"It was a very big win for us," Gerardo noted. "The UConn loss hurt us, although we played well. It was important for us to come out with a win over the weekend so that we'd have a positive attitude heading into this weekend's big games." 
Gerardo's play in the Con­necticut game caught the eye of 
U.S. Women's Olympic soccer coach Tony DeCicco. . 
"I think Monica probably has some international soccer in her future," DeCicco said. "She has the ability to hold the ball which is absolutely necessary of a front runner." 
Because of the tremendous 
effort put forth by the Irish 
against Connecticut, Gerardo 
points to the previous weekend 
as the toughest time of her 
young collegiate career. It was 
over that weekend that the 
team tied Cincinnati and 
squeaked by Ohio State in over­
time after holding every oppo­
nent until then, scoreless. 
"There was a lack of enthusi­
asm," she said. "Nobody had 
the desire, nobody had the 
heart. Although we were bet­
ter soccer players in terms of 
talent, the other teams seemed 
to have more heart. 
."We w.ere s.truggling .emo­
tionally and it was tough trying 
to come out of that." 
In struggling over that week­
end, Gerardo draws a parallel 
between the focus in the games 
and in practice. 
"It probably does go back to 
practice," Gerardo commented. 
"There were times at practice 
we'd be lackadaisical with no 
one showing effort." 
At the same time, the fresh­
man also recognizes that those 
problems will help the Irish 
down the road. 
"Actually that weekend of 
Ohio State and Cincinnati was 
good for us," she added. "It 
maybe got to our heads that we were unstoppable. It brought us back down to earth a little bit." 
The results of the weekend that Gerardo describes would satisfy most teams, but she un­derstands the scrutiny that comes from playing in one of the top programs in the coun­try. 
"It dosen't bother me," ex­plained Gerardo. "Its kind of nice coming to a school where you're sport is pretty popular." 
The fact that Notre Dame has established itself as a national power also entails pressure that Gerardo feels ready to face. 
"Coming into this school, I knew there was going to be pressure," she said. "My whole life, I guess I've been playing with pressure." 
Following her senior season in high school, Gerardo was selected as California's top of­fensive player along with being named a Parade All-American and the Los Angeles Times soccer player of the year. With these type of offensive creden­tials, Petrucelli implemented a new formation this season, al­lowing the Irish to pose more of a scoring threat. 
"Monica's the reason why we did it," he said. "She can re­ceive the ball from our mid­fielders well." 
At the same time, Petrucelli points to areas the freshman needs to improve in. 
"She needs to make more 
runs on attack and defense and 
that's what she's been working 
on," Petrucelli said. 
When she does receive the 
ball, however, everybody 
knows what she can do with it. 
"She's very dangerous when 
she gets the ball," DeCicco 
added. 
Leave it to Gerardo, however, 
to modestly put her goal scor­
ing in perspective. 
"I don't think goal scoring is 
an indicator of play," she 
noted. "You could be playing a 
terrible game, but the ball 
bounces in front of you and you 
put it away." 
Either way the ball bounces 
this weekend, Gerardo cannot 
help, but honestly admits how 
she will be feeling. 
"I guess I get nervous for 
about every game, I just can't 
control it," Gerardo said. "Its 
not like a scared nervousness. 
Its more of like an excited ner­
vous." 
If butterflies have been an in­
dicator of Gerardo's stellar play 
this year, there's no telling 
what she has in store for the 
No. 1 team in the nation. 
lVu're getting ready to graduate. It's an exciting time and there are endless possibilities awaitingyou. Embrace the world, experience different cultures, and explore other countries. 
MASTER OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT (MIM)
. 
• 
A creative program format designed for efficient and effective learning (12-month or 2~month program) 

• 
A cutting-edge interactive teaching approach u.. . need technology, team-based teaching and learning, emphasizing practical skills and knowledge ·>"' .,~,.,;'!!;%':::" 

• 
A world-class faculty composed ofrenowned schol~s; business executives, and government officials from around the globe 

• 
A specialized international curriculum with a Pacific Rim focus featuring a total cultural and targeted business learning experience 

• 
International student body providing a wealth ofexperience and a lifetime of global networking , ' 

• 
A field study trip to China & Japan 

• 
A breathtaking outdoor adventure 



FOR INFORMATION & APPLICATION MATERIAlS PLEASE WRITE: 
OREGONjOINT PROFESSIONAL SCHOOlS OF BUSINESS 18640 NW Walker Rd., #1066 Beaverton, OR 97006 USA 
(503)725-2275 or (800)879-5088 or email: mim@capital.osshe.edu The MIM ;, 1pomored by the Oregon joint Profwional Schoo/J ofBuJinw (OJPSB), a comortium of Portland StaJt Umvmzty, Unwmzty ofOregon, Oregon State UnivmiJy, and Southmz Oregon State CoOtgt. 
• Cnoss Comrrnv 

Men hope to remain perfect 
ByB.J. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's and women's cross country teams will travel to Ames, Iowa, for a meet at Iowa State University on Saturday. 
The men's team has finished first in all three meets this sea­son, including last Friday's vic­tory in the Notre Dame Invita­tional. All season, the Irish have had six runners finish strong. Leading the way are seniors Joe Dunlop, Derek Martisus, and Derek Seiling, junior Matt Althoff, sophomore Jason Rexing, and freshmen Antonio Arce. 
"They ran very well," head coach Joe Piane said of the six runners. "All of them stepped it up a notch from the National Catholic Invitational (two weeks ago)." 

Any of the six previously mentioned runners can lead the team. Three different run­ners have led the Irish in three meets-Dunlop, Althoff, and Seiling. Rexing was the second sophomore at the meet to fin­ish, and Arce was the first freshmen to fmish. 
"We don't have a big gun that's going to go out and win every race, but we have six guys that have a chance to be number two on a lot of teams," Piane said. 
The women's team struggled at the Notre Dame Invitational. Piane complimented senior Maureen Kelly and freshmen Mary Volland for running well, but he also thinks the team will do better at future meets. 
"Nowhere near their poten­tial," Piane said of the team's running. "Hopefully they'll bounce back this weekend (at Iowa State)." 
It will not be easy for the Irish runners this weekend, as they will face their toughest competition as of yet. Twenty­two men's and women's ieams will participate at Iowa State. The Iowa State men are ranked six in the nation, and Stanford, Northern Arizona, and Ten­nessee are also top ten teams. Eleven of the teams at Iowa State received votes to be ranked. 
The women's field will be equally as competitive, with Wisconsin boasting a great squad. 
Piane looks forward to com­peting against the tough com­petition. "It's going to be a great meet," he concluded. 
• SAINT MARY'S SOCCER 

Field conditions slow Belles 
By NICOLE BORDA 
Sports W rirer 
Things seem to have gone from bad to worse for the Saint Mary's soccer team. On Wednesday, the Belles traveled to Illinois Wesleyan were they suffered a 3-2 defeat. The Belles have dropped one more to move their record to 4-7-2. 
Senior Gwynne Davis still thought that the Belles played pretty well. Their biggest prob­lem was the field conditions. 
"The field was terrible. It was like playing on dirt," Davis said. "It was definitely differ­ent from playing at Saint Mary's." 
"I really think it was just a lit­tle bit of bad luck," said sopho­more Sandra Gass. 
That bad luck caused the 

Belles to give up two goals on open kicks. They did, however, succeed in scoring two goals against Illinois-Wesleyan's de­fense. Since putting in a goal has been another problem plaguing Saint Mary's, even this loss can be looked upon in a positive light. The first goal was scored by sophomore Eileen Newell and the second by freshman Mary Clingerman. Unfortunately, the Belles could not find the back of the net again before the final buzzer. 
Injuries continue to play a huge role to the Belles. Junior Brigid Keyes remains on the in­jured list and is still unable to play. Saint Mary's still consid­ers themselves lucky. 
"With all of the injuries right now we're just trying to play through. A lot of the other girls are suffering too, but they keep 

~ Z'aHee 
playing," said Gass who has also been recently been side­lined because of injury. 
At this extreme the injuries are no longer affecting the indi­viduals themselves. Freshman Mary Hoffman sees how it has been affecting the team. She has recently stepped up to be­come an important part of the Saint Mary's lineup. 
"It's hard to get used to," said Hoffman. "With everyone side­lined, we have to make a lot of adjustments to deal with the lack of depth." 
As most students are making their way home for mid-semes­ter break tomorrow, the Belles will be on the road to face Rockford. Although they may not all be playing because of health, they will all be present. You won't see any of these girls skipping out to head home. 


FRESHMAN 
RETREAT 
Friday, November 17 (4:00pm)-Saturday, November 18 (6:00pm) 
40 WOMEN + 40 MEN FROM 



Carroll Cavanaugh Farley
0MPU5 

Fisher
t\111NISTRY 
Flanner Pangborn Siegfried Stanford 

A LIMITED NUMBER OF APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE at the Campus Ministry Office, 10 3 Hesburgh Library. 
Questions? Call Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S.C. (1-7800/1-5056) 
--~,..,.......,''' I I~ 

---r--~, ;-.-;-.-~......---~----------­
I' j I • j I I I I 

• HOCKEY • VOLLEYBALL 
Exhibition game to kick off Poulin era 

By MIKE DAY 
Spons Writer 
The dawn of a new era. 
Tonight's game with unher­alded Guelph is more than just the opening game of the season for the Irish hockey team. It marks a new beginning. It rep­resents the initiation of the IJave Poulin regime at Notre Dame. 
Although the Guelph Gryphons are expncted to pose little threat to the Irish this evening at the Joyce Center, Notre Dame fans will be able to witnnss a new style of play that may have been laeking in last year's 11-25-1 squad. 
"It's a fresh start for me and the players," said Poulin. "We want to try to establish a more aggressive, up tempo style. Each player will have to im­prove individually for that to happen." 
It all starts tonight against Guelph. Although the Gryphons of Ontario enter the contest having won five of their first six games of the season, they are yet to play a team on p_ar with the Irish. They will have to improve on their 3.33 goal per game average to have any chance of pulling off the upset. 
On the ofTensive end, Guelph is led by a pair of left wings. .Junior Hob Thorpe leads the 

Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sal. 10·4 & Sun. 12-4 
unit with four goals, while teammate Hon Solomon ranks second on the Gryphons with four assists and two goals. Right wing Chris Clancy has recorded a team high seven points despite playing in just five of the squad's six games. 
"It's important that we get ofT to a good start and gain some confidence," said junior center Tim Harberts. "We need to get a win under our belt right away so that we can become more focused before we get into CCHA play." 
Gryphon goaltenders Matt Mullin and Mark Gowan will have their hands full with an Irish offensive unit that made great strides in the final month of' 1994. Leading the way for Notre Dame are Harberts, se­nior center Jamie Ling, and sophomore left wing Terry Lorenz. 
Senior left wing Jamie More­shead was one of several play­ers that emerged in the second half of 1994, scoring 10 of his 17 points in the final month of the year. 
"No question there is a lot of talent on this team," said Poulin. "We will have to work hard to make sure that the tal­ent is developed like we want it and that everyone achieves a maximum level of improve­ment." 
Given their experience and improvement made at the end of last year, defensemen Garry Gruber, Bryan Welch, Ben Nelsen, and Jeremy Coe should have little trouble keeping the Gryphons out of the net. 
"He (Coach Poulin) empha­sizes a more aggressive, man on man defense compared to what we've had in the past," said Nelsen. "The attitude is so different from what it was last year, and I think his style of play has something to do with that." 
Indeed, there's nothing like new beginnings. 
By BETSY BAKER 
Spons Writer 
The only thing better than getting mad is getting even. 
This will be the motto of the tenth-ranked Notre Dame vol­leyball team as they head to At­lanta for a match against no. 25 Georgia Tech Friday and more importantly, a rematch against no. 12 Texas Saturday. The Longhorns gave the Irish the only blemish on their 16-1 record nearly a month ago, ending their 27 -match winning streak at home. 
The anticipation for the re­match against the Longhorns has been increasingly building up since the loss on September 22, and the Irish are ready. They have won eight consecu­tive three-game matches and have been able to get every Irish player valuable experi­ence, improving the depth of the team as a whole. 
In order to get to the long­awaited rematch, however, the Irish must first defeat a feisty Georgia Tech team. The Lady Jackets bring a 15-5 record into Friday's match, 5-2 in the Atlantic Coast Conference, led by middle blocker Kerry Anne! who leads the team with 246 kills and 78 total blocks. 
"We're really excited to play Texas again," Irish setter Carey May said. "But we can't look past Georgia Tech. Our focus has been on them." 

As soon as the match against the Lady Jackets is done, the Irish focus will definitely shift to vengeance against Texas. The Longhorns have won six matches in a row, including the victory over the Irish, and now stand at 10-4 overall. Texas leads the series with the Irish 5-l. 
"In terms of skills, we don't feel that we played very well against Texas the first time," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said of the first meeting with the Longhorns. 
"We are just real happy to have the opportunity to play them again." 
In terms of magnitude, the Irish players cite the rematch as especially significant. 
"It is going to be a great match," May said. ''They know that we are going to he out to get them, so they are also going to he fired up." 
Sophomore outside hitter Angie Harris, who shares the team lead in kills with class­mate Jaimie Lee with 247 kills each, mentions the match against the Longhorns as a motivational tool. 
"We don't need any motiva­tion to play Texas," Harris said. "The chance at revenge is mo­tivation enough." 
"It will be the match of the year," adds middle blocker Jen 
ERASMUS BO 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: 


$2"' 

• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
Briggs. 
Hegardless of whether they win or lose, the Irish will have very little time to celebrate, or reflect, because it is off to sunny California for what will be the biggest match of the year, in terms of ranking. 
The Irish will take on fourth­ranked, defending national champion, Stanford. The Car­dinals finished last season 32-1, and so far this season have compiled a 12-2 record. They are led by senior outside hit­ter/setter Cary Wendel, the 1994 Player of the Year and sophomore outside hitter Kristin Folk!, last season's Freshman of the Year. Wendel, Folkl, and sophomore outside hitter/setter Lisa Sharpley have all worked out with the United States National Team. In fact, both losses on Stanford's record this year occurred before Folk! returned from working out with the national team. 
The road doesn't get any eas­ier for the Irish as they then travel to ninth-ranked Long Beach State. The 49ers are 10­3 with two of their three losses to top-ten teams. 
Despite the challenge that lies ahead of them, the Irish look forward to the trip as a chance to improve themselves. 
"Anytime you have a chance to play ranked teams, it helps us improve," May said. 
The Irish will cap off the week with two Big East match­es at home against Syracuse and Pittsburgh on October 20 and 22. respectively. 
-· Bed 'N-Breakfast Registry 
Michiana's First-Since 1983 
Enjoy approved, attractive private homes for ND/SMC special event weekends: 
•JPW • GRAD • FR. OR. 
• •FOOTBAll 219-291-7153 
Movies around Michiana 
Cinemark Theatres 
Strange Days (R) 12:55, 3:55, 7:00, 10:05 To Die For (R) 2:10,4:45,7:45, 10:15 Dead Presidents (R) 1:35,4:15,7:10, 10:10 How to Make an American Quilt (PG-13) 1:20,4:00,7:20, 10:00 Assassins (R) #1: 1:00, 3:50, 7:00, 9:50 #2: 1:45, 4:35, 7:30, 10:20 Halloween 6 (R) 
l :25, 3:00, 5:05, 7:40, 9:45 Dangerous Minds (R) l :00, 3:20, 5:50, 8:05, 10:20 Unstrung Heros (PO) 1:10, 3:25, 5:30, 7:50, 9:55 A Walk in the Clouds (PG-13) 7:25,9:40 Babe (G) 
1:15,3:10,5:15 
University Park West 
inside U.P. Mall 277-7336 
Last of the Dogmen (PG) 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 Usual Suspects (R) 2:30,5:00, 7:25, 9:45 To Wong Foo (PG-13) 2:15, 4:45, 7:15, 9:45 
University Park East 
behind Service Merchandise 277-7336 
The Big Green (PO) 2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:10 Braveheart (R) 2:30,7:30 Moonlight & Valentino (R) 2:00, 4:20, 7:00, 9;20 Clockers (R) 2:30,5:15, 8:00 Something To Talk About (R) 2:20, 4:50, 7:20, 9:35 Devil In A Blue Dress (R) 2:10 4:40 7:10 9:25 


I I 1 I I I I\ I I\ 

Friday, October 13, 1995  The Observer • SPORTS  page 13  

~~~~~~~--~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~~~~~..~----r---------· 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 13, 1995 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Lanza returns to lineup 


By DYLAN BARMMER Sports Writer 
Sometimes, things aren't exactly what they seem to be. Looks, it has been said, can be deceiving. 
According to Notre Dame men's soccer coach Mike Berticelli, this is the case with his team's 6-5 record. 
"We could easily be 9-2 right now," contends Berticelli. We've had three close losses revolving around penalty kicks. The crux of our season has been bad breaks." 
These bad breaks aside, the fact remains that the Irish stand at 6-5, with just eight games remaining. Every re­maining game is crucial to the Irish, as six of the eight, including the next four consecutive games, are Big East match­es. The Irish are 2-3 in the conference, putting them in a three-way tie for sixth place. Eight of the twelve teams in the conference will advance to the Big East Tournament. The bottom four will stay home and wonder about what went wrong. 
The Irish aren't planning on being one of these latter four teams, and Berticelli is focusing on the positives. 
"Considering our injury situation, I'm pleased with the way our team has played," said Berticelli. We have to look at the rest of the year from a positive perspective." 
The rest of the year begins tonight when the Irish host the 1-9 Providence Friars. Dead last in the conference, the flaccid Friars own an 0-6 record in Big East play, and have lost 4 straight games. 
The task gets a lot tougher following the Providence game. The Irish will complete their four-game Fall Break tour with games at St. John's, West Virginia, and Pittsburgh, respectively. 
The Red Storm are #20 in the ISAA 
poll, and own an overall mark of 8-3-1, with a 2-2-1 record in Big East play. They also boast one of the best players in the nation in midfielder Ben Hickey. West Virginia is tied with the Irish with four points in the Big East, but are only 3-6-3 overall. The surprising Panthers of Pittsburgh currently stand third in the Big East with eight points. and are 7-4 on the year. All three teams have been very tough to beat at horrle, and all three teams play their home games on artifi­cial turf. 
"We can't look past any of these teams," said Berticelli. "All three teams have played great at home. Playing on turf will be hard, but we should be able to make the adjustment." 
In preparing for their road trip, the Irish have been practicing on the artifi­cial turf surface at Loftus this week. Many of the players have experience in playing on turf, but the transition will certainly not be flawless. 
"All these games are going to be tough," said junior Konstantin Koloskov; who is tied for the team lead with 17 points. "They're on turf, and each team is tough to beat at home." 
The Irish may be lent a helping hand by the return of star forward Bill Lanza, who has missed the last 5 games with a severe groin pull. Lanza is expected to see limited playing time against Providence tonight, in the hopes of his getting back to form as soon as possible. 
"While he's healed tremendously 
quick, you have to realize that Billy is not 
fit," said Berticelli. "It will take some 
time for him to get back in game shape." 
The Irish will be hoping that Lanza 
returns to form as soon as possible. The 
explosive senior tallied 17 points in parts 
of just six games before the groin injury 
sidelined him, and his mere presence on 
the field provides the Irish with a scoring 
threat. 
While Lanza's return is eagerly antici­pated, Koloskov feels that this team is coming together more as a unit. 

"I think we are playing a lot better as a team," said Koloskov. "We are defend­ing better, and I think we are attacking better as well." 
The Irish have allowed just 4 goals in their past 4 games, while collecting 10 for themselves. Part of this success may be due to the emergence of freshman goalkeeper Greg Velho. 
"Greg has stepped in and won the starting job," commented Berticelli. "He has continued to show improvement since the beginning of the season." Velho boasts an overall GAA of 1.36, but that mark is a much higher 2.68 in Big East play. 
Irish fans can only hope that time off from classes will enable Velho to forget about his GPA, and concentrate on low­ering his GAA. These Big East classes can be awfully tough. 

Bl$ketball Tryouts ~ . basketball team will hold · non-schoh1.rship players ~~th and October 26th The tryouts are MiJ.lt>~w~u1 .· Center Arena. 


Power Macintosh· 720ons w/CD 
8MB RAM/500MB bard drive, Power PC 601 processor, quad-speed CD-ROM drive, 15" rotor monilor, keyboard and mouse.
Macintosh computers 
are nowon sale. 


(Okay, now go back to whateveryou 



We thinkyour life would be vastly improved ifyou possessed this piece you could get your homework done faster. Then you'd have time for of knowledge: Macintosh"computers are now available for less than the more important things in life. Anyway, sorry to Ap 1 .,_ the already affordable student prices.Just think, ifyou had acomputer, disturb you. Macintosh.The power to beyour best7 
p1e . 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-5pm 

Offirs expire OckJber 13, 1995. ©1995 Apple Compuler, Inc. All rights reserved Apple, /he Apple wgo, Macintosh and 'The~ /o he~ur best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Cart/Shop Plus Is aregistered trade­mark ofMindralpe. All Macinlosh computers are designal /() be aaR.!Sible lo individuals with disability. 7b learn 171()1'e (U.S. only), ca/1800-600-7808 or17Y800-755-060/. Still reading? Maybe~u should think about law school. 
~~----------­
'I I' I • -, t I', I I I 1 I I If 1 I I 
.-.~~-~ 

Friday, October 13, 1995 The Observer· TODAY page 15 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A desire to express yourself through the arts grows stronger. Look for a way to showcase your talents. A cer­tain amount of risk-taking is favored this Decemher. An end-of-year bonus will come in handy. Early in 1996, your domestic arrangements change for the better. Capitalize on your impressive professional or social connections. Host a public event. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: football star Jerry Rice, actress Kelly Preston, figure skater Nancy Kerrigan, singer Sammy Hagar. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A lucky meeting could lead to a finan­
I 1'\EED TilEJv\ f\URR'!, NEBULAR! 

cial bonanza. Attitude plays a key
~'( <a:oo T00\~1. f...\ L\G\.1\ SPEEt>, 

role in your success; stay upbeat!i\NO 11-\t:.'( \1(>.1JE. WE 'CM~ JUST 
Shared experiences are binding. Be TO BE PRCilt.RL'( !'\f..\(£ \\I 
smart. Spend more time with your 
children or parents. TAURUS (April 20-May 20):
II>EK\\F\E\) 1\!'~D 
lAI*.LED. 

Civic duties take priority today. Later, discuss an important issue with your relatives or neighbors. Improvisation is the keynote when unexpected visitors drop by. Get moving on a business matter. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Steer clear of business operations in which you do not have an assigned role. Overheated conversations should be cooled! Guard your pro­fessional reputation. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22):
SCOTT ADAMS 

The next few days could be critical for a partnership. Avoid demanding more than you are willing to give in return. Entertaining at home enjoys favorable influences. Keep the guest list short and select. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): A new relationship needs more time to mature. Stop dwelling on the past. Give your heart a chance to mend. Financial gains come through wise investments. Set aside some money for your retirement years. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Col­laborative efforts and contractual relationships are favored. Say "yes" to any reasonable propositions. You sense your mate or partner's needs. Change negative spending panerns; do not enrich others needlessly. Lis­ten to a child's concerns. 


LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Although travel could be expensive now, there may not be an alterna­tive. Do what you must to expand a business. Your excellent reputation will give you advantages and oppor­tunities your competitors do not enjoy. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Rendering someone a service deep­ens your understanding of their plight. Note publications dealing with diet, nutrition and exercise. Someone decides to share a secret; you could benefit both emotionally and materially. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): A better day for research and study than for action. Proceed with your plans for counseling, organiz­ing and scheduling. Take any disap­pointments or delays in stride; they could end up working to your advantage. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Resist the temptation to divulge secrets. A friend is well-intentioned but possibly misguided. Someone's services may not meet your expecta­tions. To protect your good name, keep your comments civil. Be polite but firm. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Tend to routine tasks in the morn­ing, emphasizing your desire to be of service. Romance keeps you guessing. Moderate your demands on partner. Follow precedent at work, acknowledging the imponant role that tradition plays. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): An excellent day to study and evaluate a controversial plan. Go through chan­nels if you want to register a com­plaint or criticism. Others are will­ing to hear your ideas. Kind gestures forestall problems with the neigh­bors . 
A'S S\JPREME EARniUHG ll()TEt{\1\TE., 
l'M AFRAIO I CANT LET '(O\J JIJST COME \N AI'ID ff\KE O~ER ~t:. PLA~Ef. 
DILBERT 
PST! THESE PR\1'1 \\I~E FOOLS !'lUST USE L£1\'JES t>..S CURRE.~t'!! 
26 Makes general inquiries 21 Like velvet 28 Sonny boy 29 Diplomatic HQ 30 Parade stoppers 31 Regards 32 Bust participant 36 You'll find him in a crowd 37 Pay dirt 38 Dogpatch individuals 


. • OF INTEREST 
Economic and political Issues of the Pacific Basln(with special reference to APEC) will be dis­cussed today from 8:30-5:30 P.M. in the Auditorium of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The discussion, entitled "The Political Economy of Regional D~velopment and Cooperation in the Pacific Basin," w~Il include such topics as "The Political Economy of Pacific Basin Integration" (8:30-9:30), "Multilateralism v$? Regionalism" (10:00-noon), and "Regional Development and Integration from Asian Perspectives" (2:15-5:30). 
•MENU 

,,~;~otre Dame
1 
.........·~:.:,·::::"' ......::···:::· 

1 • North South Chipken Chimichanga BBQ Spareribs London Broil Shrimp Poppers 
··· Rice with Olives Vegetable Marinara 
SaintMarfs 
, Swedish Meatballs 42 Souvenir 52 "Fiddlesticks!" 
,,,;,:;Turkey Divan· , · Buttered Noodles 
44 Set up, in a way 53 Actress 45 Samarra 
Kedrova of natives 
"Torn Curtain" 
54 Enlist again or milk 55 Aor B. e.g. 
46 Word with holy 

t•J..l~ilS I~ 
47 Floored 5& Not dis 50 Banned act 59 Napoleonic 51 Bookie's quote duke 

lli~(~Y(~J..I~ '1,111~ 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­

()JISI~Il\TJ~Il
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

n 
it).)
OJ L--···
.., 
Q. [Cl 
(I) c
:::::r 
,_..

OJ
.., 
~ 
:-·fn

(I) 
,..... 
Q 
c
.., 
::;:,
-· 

.. 
-
' 

ACROSS 
1 Willamette University site & Delineate 10Comet competitor 14 Way out? 15BobofTV's "Home Again" 
16 Cry at Shinnecock Hills 
17 Commoners 18 Airline to 
Ben-Gurion 19 Greek letters 20 Beginning of a 
quote 23 English actor Carmichael et al. 
24 Race course turn 25 Part 2 of the quote 32 Pinocchio's polygraph 
33"--Said" (Neil Diamond hit) 
34 Wager 35 Razor-billed bird 36 Part 3 of the 
quote 39 Mint stamp 40 N.F.L. positions 41 Composer 
Thomas 42 Doctor 43 Author of the 
quote 48 Unburden 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

LE:Ts 1'\0\ B£ HP.,S\i . I'LL 
TIIJ.I)E '(0\J Efo.lm\ 
!='OR 50 ~\LIEN 1REE lHVE':> . 
49 Drift 50 End of the quote 56 Magician Henning 57 Old radio quiz 
show 58--a million 60 Author Tyler 61 Bunuel 
collaborator 62 Chopin piece 63 Lincoln In-law 64 El stops: Abbr. 65 One of a familiar 
heptad 
DOWN 
1 Dupe 2Cher's "-­Really Want to 
Do" 3Willingly 4 Drop in the 
ocean? 5 Small disaster 6 To a great 
extent 7Gamepiece sHammer part 9 Sound 
100nce more 11 "Table Talk" 
English jurist 12 Slangy suffix 13 Some 
signatures 21 Chemical 
ending 22 Knot again 25 Branch 


I o) I I r 1 • r I I I I I I I I •' 



~ --­
1
·I' I I I 1 1 I ', •' '1 
SPORTS 

page 16 Friday, October 13, 1995 
Redemption Shot 
Houston site for rematch with defending national champion North Carolina 
By DAVE TREACY Petrucelli claims. "I think we look at this Sports Writer as another quality weekend on our schedule." There's a showdown brewing in The coach has a valid point. Up to this Houston. point in the season, Notre Dame has 
Shots will be fired. Shots of redemp­played more than its share of top tion. Pay back shots aimed directly at competition. The Irish have squared off the University of North Carolina against several top 25 opponents this Tarheels. Shots that could propel Notre season, including Connecticut, Santa Dame back to the top of the ladder. Clara, and Stanford, teams presently 
There won't be any smoking guns. ranked in the top ten. Just four of the best collegiate teams On the other hand, the Notre Dame vs. playing some soccer in the Lone Star North Carolina series is rapidly brewing state. into a rivalry. The Irish snapped North 
Notre Dame will have a prominent role Carolina's 92 game winning streak last in this tournament. They go head-to­season with a 0-0 tie. It was the first 
~.,.-,.,.-, head with Duke Friday, and time since 1989 that Carolina was held then will play top-ranked North without a goal, and only the sixth time in Carolina in one of the most Tarheel history. anticipated match-ups in The last time the two teams faced each women's soccer history. other was in the final round of the 1994 
One might think that Irish NCAA tournament. The Irish were Coach Chris head coach Chris Petrucelli has trounced by the Tarheels, especially in Petrucell keyed his team up for the week­the second half, and found themselves on leads the Irish end, played to the hype. But the losing end of a 5-0 decision. Except into Houston to that's not his style. for recent performances by the Irish, this face Duke and North "I look at these opponents as 
Carolina this weekend. see SOCCER I page II
no different than any other,"
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Gerardo goes on the offensive 

-
said. "But I guess being a Irish coach Chris Petrucelli Forward continues freshman, playing Duke and said. "She dosen't waste many North Carolina, especially opportunities and is in the right 
Irish tradition of North Carolina, is just some­place at the right time." 
thing you dream about. I'm "Her goal scoring ability isfreshman phenoms sure I'm going to be really ner­something that she is smart vous for these games, but hope­about," said midfielder Julie 
ByJOE VILLINSKI fully everything will work out in Maund. "She is reliable in 
Assistant Sports Editor 
our favor." those situations and there Gerardo has been one of the aren't many freshman who can
If it were possible, Monica 
main reasons things have been make an impact like that." 
Gerardo would perceive the 
working out in the Irish's favor In the third game of the yearcontests this weekend against this season. The native of Simi against Indiana that impactNo. 11 Duke and No. 1 North Valley, California has already rewrote the Irish record books.
Carolina as just two more 
posted a team-leading 15 goals Gerardo set a new single-gamegames. 
in twelve games to go along mark for goals, scoring fourAgainst top-25 competition 
with four assists. times in Notre Dame's 7-0 win.
this year, Gerardo has regis­
Those statistics put her Despite this auspicious debut, 
tered five goals in as many among the nation's leaders in don't shine the spotlight in 
games. 
points as she attempts to be­Gerardo's direction unless theTry as she might, however, come Notre Dame's second na­light is large enough to illumi­
the freshman will not allow her Monica
tional freshman of the year in nate the entire team. 
youthful and forthright attitude Gerardo
three years after co-captain "It was kind of neat," noted 
to become mired in cliche. has already
Cindy Daws garnered the honor Gerardo modestly. "I have to 

notched 1
''I'd like to think of them as in 1993. 

goals this year. 
just two.moni games," Gerardo "Gerardo's a great finisher," see GERARDO/ page I2 

Irish prepare for Big East 
Physical play, inexperience anticipated as challenges 
By TIM SEYMOUR has ever happened to Notre Dame basketball -in 
Associate Sports Editor terms of exposure, recruiting, and forming an identity," stated head coach John 
As Notre Dame begins a new era MacLeod in its basketball tradition, emotions "The impact of this is huge," and reality converge into an uncer­stated freshman Doug Gottlieb, tain patchwork. one of the best prep point guards 
Excitement abounds regarding in the country 1ast year. "I 
.. the intensity surrounding the Big wguldn't have come here had East conference, Notre Dame's new Notre Dame not been affiliated calling card, but equally prevalent with a conference." are questions of whether the Irish MacLeod was quick to temper can survive in the land of the giants. 
Head Coach John Macleod hopes to guide the Irish to success as 

"Personally, I think this is the best thing that
they begin their inaugural season in the physical Big East conference. see HOOPS/ page II 



Football Women's Soccer 

• Men's soccer faces conference foes 
vs. Army at Meadowlands 
vs. Duke at Houston October 13, 1 p.m. 
October 14, 11 a.m. 

vs. N. Carolina October 15, 3 p.m. 
see page 14 
Volleyball 

Cross Country • Volleyball looks for revenge 
at Georgia Tech October 13,7 p.m. 
at Iowa State October 14 
see page I3
vs. Texas at Atlanta October 14, 4 p.m. 
SMC Sports 

• Cross country teams to visit Iowa St. 
Men's Soccer 
Soccer at Rockford Oct. 14, 1 p.m. 
vs. Providence October 14, 7 p.m. 
Volleyball at Kalamazoo Oct. 14, 10 a.m. 
see page 12 






