
Tuesday, April4, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 115 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Ethnic conflicts rising problem 
Post-cold war era unstable 
By EDWARD IMBUS Associate News Ediwr 
The post-cold war world era has seen a large rise in the number of ethnic conflicts, but "innovative, encouraging alter­natives to resolvtl (ethnic) con­flicts" have been proposed, ac­cording to Janie Leatherman, a visiting fellow at the Kroc Insti­tute. 
Those new approaches must be attempted. Leatherman said, beyond tried and traditional ap­proaches in order "to build a more stable society," especially in European countries now free of communism. 
She said that efforts in the Organization for Security Coop­eration in Europe (OSCE), a post-cold war council created to address international issues concerning their member states. were promising. 
The Thinker 
She pointed towards a 1993 conferencf) in Warsaw to deal with minority issues as an example. 
Unfortunately, many people still tend to romanticize the is­sues and solutions to the detri­ment of the various ethnicities. 
"Identity conflicts are multi­faceted and complex," stated Leatherman, "and frequently arise in the process of democ­ratization and a struggle for [economic] resources." 
She also commented that eth­nic cultures would clash as the societies attempted to reorga­nize themselves into capitalism. 
Most issues, in fact, are not based in national rivalries but on financial insecurity. 
Drawing upon her personal observations during field work in Macedonia, Leatherman noted that ethnicity consistently interfered, usually unnecessar­ily, with a proper distribution of financial resources by polariz­ing local politics. 
She cited examples in which a school with only eight students was kept open instead of con­solidating it with another near­by school for ethnic reasons, and that only six percent of stu­dents at a university there were Albanian, a large minority. 

Leatherman said that inter­national organizations can play an important role in keeping focus on the real issues, even before an outbreak of violence. 
"Mediation is very much ap­propriate ... and a vital compo­nent. Through monitoring we can get an early warning of conflict" and make efforts to avoid it. 
She criticized the interna­tional media for stereotyping national identities and not giv­ing proper weight to the na­tionalism of people. 
She said that journalists in Macedonia would question why citizens there were unwilling to change their flag and avoid a controversy. Leatherman also noted, however, that an inter­ethnic journalist corps was one catalyst to end ethnic wariness, among others such as religion. 
The Observer/Cynthia Exconde 


A Saint Mary's student studies at the SMC library (with an illegally smuggled drink). 

GOP continues push for tax-cut legislation 
By DAVID ESPO 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Driving for a final triumph on the "Contract With America," House Republican 
leaders picked up support for tax-c1,1.t legis­lation Monday from deficit-con­scious law­makers. Vice 

President AI Gingrich G o r e attacked the GOP for a "highly partisan, extremist, 100-day agenda." 
With a tax vote set for Wednesday, Majority Leader Dick Armey, H-Texas, predict­ed passage for the measure with a $500-per-child tax cred­it for families making up to $200,000 a year. ''I'm feeling very good we will have the final details worked out," he said. 
Other lawmaker said that de­spite an agreement linking the tax cuts to sweeping spending­cut legislation to be passed later this year. the leadership could not yet count the votes to prevail. 
Some GOP holdouts want to scale back the per-child tax credit, while another group wants changes in a provision that would raise the amount federal workers contribute to their own retirement funds. 
House Speaker Newt Gin­grich, H-Ga., who last week vowed to keep the House in session until it passes tax cuts, also said during the day Mon­day that he was a few votes shy of a majority. 
"We don't yet have 218 votes lined up, but we're making good progress," said Tony Blankley, Gingrich's spokesman. 
Hepublicans were checking their 230-member caucus to see what. if any, additional changes they would need to make in the tax bill to assure passage without relying on even a single Democratic vote. 
While the Hepublicans pushed to complete work on th'eir campaign manifesto, Gore went on the attack as the leading edge of a coordinated, week long Democratic assault on the GOP program. 
"Like the discredited trickle­down economics that nearly bankrupted our nation in the 1980s, this 100-day juggernaut is also a mistake," the vice president told a National Press Club audience. 
He said the GOP had made "losers" of middle-income families who "are being asked to pay for another round of He­publican tax cuts for the wealthy" through reductions in student loans and the school 

• see CONTRACT, page 5 
lunch program. The winners, he said, are the "very wealthy" who, Gore said, are in line for tax breaks. 
After several days of negotia­tions with the leadership, a group of moderate, deficit-con­scious Hepublicans said they would support bringing the tax measure to the House floor. Under the agreement, the bill would be changed so no tax· cuts would go into effect until Congress enacted legislation later this year designed to eliminate deficits by the year 2002. 
Gingrich had long since pledged to do just that. 
One conservative Democrat attacked the agreement in ad­vance as a "fig leaf." 
Said Hep. Glen Browder, D­Ata., "I'm here now to call their plan a bad idea." 



Week's activities strive to raise campus awareness 
Editor's Note: During Sexual Assault Awareness Week, The Observer will examine various a_spects of sexual assault on college campuses. This is first in a four part series addressing the problems and issues ofrape and sexual assault on campus. 
By JAMIE HEISLER News Writer 
As Sexual Assault Awareness Week begins, the planning that the Campus Alliance for Hape 
• see INTERN, page 12 
Elimination (C.A.H.E.) has put into the events is bringing the subject of rape to the forefront. 
C.A.H.E., a student organiza­tion dedicated to educating other students on the subject of rape, is co-sponsoring the events of the week in an at­tempt to make students on campus aware of the threat of rape as well as to get more stu­dents involved. 
"It's important for everyone to get involved and educated. A lot of people have the idea that since this is a Catholic univer­sity, rape doesn't happen here. We are trying to open their eyes to the fact that it does oc­cur here," said Ceila Loughlin, the Notre Dame co-president of C.A.H.E. 
Sexual Assault Awareness Week was kicked off Sunday with a Take Back the Night March which began at Stone­henge and ended at Saint Mary's College. Tonight the Mulberry Players, a role play­ing group, will be performing skits relating to the topics of rape and sexual assault. "They will be stopping in the middle of scenes to discuss with the audience what was right and what was wrong in the scene," according to Loughlin. 
The week's events will con­tinue with a panel discussion on Wednesday entitled "He Said, She Said," and with a showing of "Thelma and Louise" on Thursday to be fol-
SEXUAL ASSAULT] 

LON CAMPUS PART 1 OF 4 
lowed by a discussion led by Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Ava Collins. 
"This semester, our focus was on how to get people involved, which has been tough. Mainly, we have been concentrating on the events of Sexual Assault Awareness Week. Last semes­ter, our main focus was to get into the dorms to do pre­sentations," said Loughlin. 
The C.A.H.E. presentations last semester took place in both a male dorm as well as a female dorm. The members first showed a video on rape and then broke up into groups with the students to discuss the good and bad elements of the video as well as to answer questions about the school's policy on rape. 
"We are looking to change the presentation to get more people coming to it. We are hoping to take something like the Mulberry Players are doing, in other words having students interact with role players," said Loughlin. 

While C.A.R.E. has had suc­cess in many of their efforts, they have also had problems getting their messages on rape available to everyone. "We have had a problem getting some rectors to let us into the dorm for presentations. Some dorms on campus won't let us in because they feel students shouldn't educate other stu­dents on the subject of rape," said Loughlin. 
Both the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's chapter of 
C.A.H.E. work together on the presentations and other events, although they have separate meetings. 
"Our main goal for the future of the organization is to make it more unified, since it is an issue that faces both cam­puses." said Loughlin. The or­ganization began at Saint Mary's approximately 12 years ago and then on the Notre Dame campus in 1990. 
C.A.H.E. now also works in conjunction with Sex Offense Services, a non-university ser­vice which offers support and counseling to rape victims. Several C.A.H.E. members choose to become S.O.S. advo­cates and go through training in the fall to work at the 24­hour crisis intervention service. 
"We work 6 hour shifts a week and take phone calls or go to the hospital to assist rape victims who often need infor­mation. St. Joe's Medical Cen­ter calls immediately when a sexual assault victim is admit­ted and we provide medical as well as legal information," said Kara Sturtz, the Saint Mary's co-president .of C.A.H.E. 
While many members do also work with S.O.S., the main fo­cus of C.A.H.E. is the preven­tion of rape on the Notre Dame 
see ASSAULT I page 4 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, Apri14, 1995 
• INSIDE COlUMN 

To thine own self be true 
Several summers ago, Roben Bollman while discussing philoso­

Graphic Designer 

phy with my grandfather he told me one of the greatest bits of wisdom ever imparted to me. He said, with his wizened old voice, "If you learn one thing from me, let it be this; don't lie to yourself. Know who you are at all times, and not a fool in the world can hurt you." 
I am beginning to fully understand what this old man meant. He has lived and succeeded through some of the toughest times in America. He has seen hardships that I can't even dream about. He has taken all of these years of experience and figured out how to make it all work. I now know why he signs his letters with the word "truth." I now know why he has never lied to me. I now understand why so little in life drags him down, and why his eyes maintain that constant sparkle no matter what happens. 
The philosophy that I shro-e with my grand­father goes simply: Be true to yourself above all else. This one rule may not seem like much, but, when you allow yourself to live in the truth alone, you realize that a life dedicat­ed to the truth calls for actions that seem out of place in today's pre-fabricated society. The naked truth leaves open few venues for evil. Living a life in which the truth is a constant goal and self honesty is the gauged by actions, one leads a life with little confusion and no unbearable pain. 
The other day I read a Cosmopolitan maga­zine and I was astounded at how shallow the writers were. These authors showed more concern for appearing perfect than they did for having the people around them know them for who themselves. These people live lives that are built upon facades, masks, and deceits. They cannot recognize what is true and what can make them happy. These peo­ple run from truth. 
By the philosophy that my grandfather and I share, the greatest problem with society is that many people share the same values as the writers in Cosmopolitan. Most people today run froni the truth about who they are, where they came from, where they are going, and what they are supposed to do right now. This small denial in everyday American life costs the majority of mankind its easiest chance at happiness. 
When we trust someone else's opinion, we 
also trust that our judgment of them is correct. 
Knowing that our judgment of people is often 
misguided, it's better to trust instinct and 
experience than anther's opinion. 
Millions allow others to control their lives 
through the fashion, technology, drugs, and 
religion. Being happy means that you have to 
follow your morals and make decisions on 
what you know is the truth, not what you have 
been told is the truth. 

To be true to yourself means that you know 
the facts and that you make decisions based 
on what you know is true, not on what you 
have been told. You must learn that you are 
responsible for what you do, and that excuses 
are worthless. To attain simple pleasure you 
must find what is right for you and do exactly 
that. You must follow the morals that you 
know are correct. Life isn't important enough 
to hide from. Walk tall. Love life. Know that 
happiness is within your grasp at all times. 
Live honestly with the world and with yourself. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
David d'Angers  Michelle Marcotte  
Morgan Bracken  Susan Marx  
Spons  
Dave Treacy  Lab Tech  
Accent  Eric Ruerhling  
Jenny Gunzelman  
Pete Rubinas  Graphics  
Viewpoint  Brian Blank  
Mike O'Hara  

The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• Wmn.o Ar A GuNc£ 
Thousands of refugees flee Burundi without warning 
BUJUMBURA, Burundi R f fl 
Suddenly, without warning and without e ugees ee camps
Rwandan refugees fled camps surrounding
explanation, tens of thousands Of Ngozifollowingethnicviolence. 
Rwandan refugees picked up their mea-ZAlRE ger belongings and calmly set off for Tanzania. 
There was no attack to trigger last week's sudden exodus of the 40,000 peo­ple in the northwestern Magara refugee camp. And there was no panic in their flight. The Rwandans waited patiently for their regular distribution of two weeks' worth of food and then set off for Tanzania. 
About 10,000 other refugees from the Ruvumu and Kibezi camps along the route joined the march as it passed by ­but only Magar a was emptied. Most of the Rwandans at Ruvumu and Kibezi just watched the ragged parade roll by. 
The exodus appeared unrelated to a massacre in northeastern Burundi reported Monday in which hundreds of Burundian Hutus were found shot or bludgeoned to death in their village. 
International aid workers managed to halt the proces­sion Friday after Tanzania closed its border. But days later, they still don't know exactly what prompted the entire population of one camp to break for the border. 
ANC to Probe Women's League Husband decays due to neglect 
Less than a week after Winnie Mandela was fired from her estranged husband's Cabinet, the African National Congress has decided to inves­tigate the women's league she heads. At a meeting Sunday, national execu­tives of the ANC and the ANC Women's League voted to form a commission to investigate problems in the league. 
The Accu-Weather$forecast for noon, Tuesday, April4. 
FRONTS: 
....,.....,.. ...a....a.. ...,..ay.. 

COLD WARM STAnONARY C 1995 Accu-Wealher, Inc. PI8S8ure ~ ~ ,..-!\
H L B &SI !Ill 0 ~ 8 "¥ ~ C-.-!. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAJN J:STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUCW CLOUDY VIIAaodlr.ctPrna: 
Atlanta  60  42  
Baltimore  44  23  
Boston  39  22  
Chicago  40  18  
Cincinnati  40  19  

JOHANNESBURG MOORE HAVEN A woman was sentenced to 15 years in prison Monday for allowing her quadriplegic husband to die from decay. A judge recounted testimony from medical workers who described Scott Mickler's condition at his wife's trial: an overpowering stench as he lay in a bed covered with flesh and body wastes, gangrene so severe that his toes and heels were falling off. Cheryl Mickler was convicted Feb. 6 of abuse or neglect of a disable adult. A quadri­
I plegic since a 1978 auto accident, her husband had won 
a $3.5 million settlement and she ended up with $1.5 million after he died. "The defendant's conduct was both extraordinary and egregious," Circuit Judge Thomas Reese said when he imposed the maximum sentence allowed. The judge cited abuse, neglect and psychologi­cal trauma suffered by Mickler before he died in 1990 in granting a prosecution request and departing from state sentencing guidelines that recommended a sentence of 3 1/2 years. Reese also ordered Mrs. Mickler to pay $68,120, including Glades County investigative and court costs, and more than $11,000 to the state crime victim's compensation fund. 
Slain Gucci Scion Buried 

,--::=---.., 
AP.Wm,J,Casteno 
Zaire and Tanzania, those in Burundi are not controlled by former Hutu militiamen and soldiers. It does not appear there are extremists in the camps in Burundi capable of commanding a whole camp to move. 
Dallas  70  52  New Or1eans  69  58  
Denver  71  36  New York  42  28  
Los Angeles  75  57  Philadelphia  46  28  
Miami  82  70  Phoenix  89  61  
Minneapolis  39  15  St. Louis  57  32  

"To me there is something very strange about it," Frances Turner, the head of the UNICEF mission in Burundi, said Monday. "The real reason they all got up to leave is not really clear." 
The seemingly inexplicable flight reflects how difficult it is to cope with the fears of people in an area torn by the same ethnic conflict that drove them from their homes in the first place. 
There had been an attack by unknown assailants earlier in the week that killed 12 refugees and wounded 22 at the Majuri refugee camp northwest of Magara, closer to the Rwandan border. But there had been no violence at Magara. 
"Rumors are stronger than fact in this country. I am constantly astonished at the power of rumors in this country," said CARE spokesman Mark Richardson. 
He said there was a rumor that Tutsis in the nearby town of Ngozi would attack the refugees at Magar a. 
But unlike Rwandan refugee camps in 
President Nelson Mandela last week fired his wife as deputy minister of arts, culture, science and technology, but she retains her position as a member of Parliament and as leader of the women's league. Mrs. Mandela, 60, attended the meeting but declined to speak to journalists. The ANC released a statement saying when the investiga­tion was over the league would hold a national confer­ence. Such conferences usually choose leaders for the group. Eleven members of the women's league board resigned earlier this year to protest what they called the autocratic leadership of Mrs. Mandela. All 11 attended Sunday's meeting. Mrs. Mandela has been criticized by many in government, but she has strong grassroots sup­port among militant young blacks who want immediate benefits from the end of apartheid. 
Court upholds dismissal of surgeon 
RICHMOND 

A Maryland hospital acted properly when it dismissed 
an HIV-infected doctor who refused to give up his surgi­
cal practice, a federal appeals court ruled Monday. The 
three-judge panel of the 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals 
unanimously affirmed U.S. District Judge John R. Har­
grove's decision to throw out the surgeon's lawsuit 
against the University of Maryland Medical System Corp. 
The appeals court said the surgeon, identified as "Dr. 
Doe," posed a significant risk because of the possibility 
he could be cut during surgery and bleed into a patient's 
wound. "Although there may presently be no docu­
mented case of surgeon-to-patient transmission, such 
transmission clearly is possible," Judge William W. 
Wilkins Jr. wrote. 

MILAN 
About 200 people attended a funeral Monday for Maurizio Gucci, slain scion of the fashion family, before his body was sent to Switzerland for burial. Gucci's for­mer wife and two daughters were among the mourners at San Carlo church, a traditional Milan site for high-pro­file funerals, but absent were any big names in Italy's fashion industry. The 46-year-old businessman was gunned down March 27 as he walked into his office building in central Milan. Investigators say the killing appeared to be the work of a professional gunman. The only reference to Gucci's tragic end came during the homily by the parish priest, the Rev. Mariano Merlo. "We weep for a death due not to natural causes, but to the Cains of every era," the priest said, referring to the biblical figure who killed his brother Abel. 

--------------, 
Tuesday, April4, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
•BOG Schultz unveils new design 
By MARILYN ALIOTO 
News Writer 
Sister Rose Ann Schultz, from the Center for Spirituality, began the final meeting for the '94-'95 BOG term. Sister Rose distrib­uted the new design for the SMC Mission Statement to old and new members. They are the first students to view the new design. Sister intends for the artwork to "capsulate the mission state­ment and to remind us, stu­dents, faculty and staff, why we come here everyday". 
A date has been set for April 12, Wednesday, for A BOG sponsored social to cel­ebrate the newly installed cable service. It will take place in the Haggar Game Hoom and refreshments will be served. 
Clinton attacks proposed education cuts 


President shoots baskets, slams GOP 
By RON FOURNIER 
Associated Press 

JONESBORO, Ark. Awkwardly palming a bas­
ketball, President Clinton 
walked into a 
university 
gym with 
"Hoop 
Dreams" star 
Arthur Agee 
to shoot 
some baskets 
Monday 
when a sign 
on the back­board caught his eye. 
"No Dunking" it said in big, black, block letters. 

~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:..____________ 
Saint 9rfary's SeniorPonna{ Saturd'ay, ~pri( 22ni 6:30pm-1:00am Soutfi (}3eruf Century Center 
AII students interested in anendmg-The remainder of the ticket ($40) needs to be paid 
"No dunking?" Clinton said, feigning surprise. "That's too bad, that's what I wanted to do." 
Agee, an Arkansas State Uni­versity basketball player whose triumphs and turmoils as a promising athlete were the sub­jflct of the documentary film, "Hoop Dreams," showed the president that some rules were made to be broken. 
Taking three powerful strides toward the basket, the Chicago native exploded from the floor and dunked the ball. 
"Your turn, Mr. President," a reporter teased. 
Clinton -wearing loafers, dress pants and a tie ­shrugged his shoulders and said, "I did it once, when I was 16." 
The brief photo opportunity came as Clinton wrapped up three days of relaxation in his home state. During the week­end, he took two early morning 
walks through the quiet streets
1 of Little Rock, attended services 
at his old church, returned to the governor's mansion where he lived for 12 years and took his mother-in-law, Dorothy Rodham, out to dinner. 
But the weekend revolved around basketball -University of Arkansas basketball. The Ra­zorbacks were playing Monday night for the NCAA champi­
onship and Clinton planned to watch the game on television 

and table assignments need to be made on any ofthe following dates: 
with several friends at a local bb 
restaurant.

Tuesday, April 4th 5:00-7:00pm LeMans Lo Y 
He watched form a popular Wednesday, April 5th 5:00-7:00pm LeMans Lobby 
steak house Saturday night Thursday, April 6th 12:00-3:00pm LeMans Lobby 
when the Hogs beat North **The rema1nder of the ticket and all student J.D.'s for everyone sitting at atable are needed to 
Carolina. Clinton said the sport

is valuable therapy for him. maketableassignments. Eachtableholds8people/4couples. "I have to have something
L----------------------_.else to think about," he said be-

The Center for Social Concerns Invites Applications for 




Student Internships 
For the 1995-96 Acade1nic Year 
Hours/Commitment Approx. 12 hours per week Plus participation in reflection, academic meetings 
Center Interns will receive academic credit in one of various departments, and receive a scholarship 
Internships Require • Experience 
• Initiative 

• Creativity Applications Available Thursday, April 6th 
Applications Due Tuesday, April 18th, 1995 
Areas of Focus for Center Internships 
For Further Information, Contact 
• 
Multicultural Concerns 

• 
Education/Youth 

• 
Communication 

• 
Educational Programming 

• 
New Initiatives and Outreach 

• 
Adult Services 


Kathy Royer 631-5293 Jay Brandenberger 631-5293 
fore landing in Arkansas on Friday night after spending the day in Haiti. "Otherwise, I'll go nuts." 
Clinton began his day Monday at the campus of Razorback ri­val Arkansas State University, dedicating a new multi-million­dollar library he helped fund while serving as the state's gov­ernor. 
He used the ceremony to chastise Republicans for trying to cut education programs. 
"If we walk away from education, when the 21st Century depends on what we know and what we can learn, it would be just as dangerous as it would have been for us to disarm in the middle of the Cold War," he said. "We didn't do that, and we shouldn't do this." 
Without mentioning the Re­publican Party by name, he added, "This is not rocket sci­ence; this is basic. This is America's future." 
After the speech, Clinton at­tended a reception with some old Arkansas political friends, then walked to an ASU gym with Agee. 
While the pair chatted a few minutes beneath the basket, Agee casually spun a basketball on his fingers. Clearly im­pressed, Clinton said, "I can't do that." 
Clinton then slipped off his wedding ring and put it in his pocket, taking aim with his first shot. It went wide of the basket. 
"Airball," somebody shouted, just loud enough for Clinton to hear. 
"Just missed," the president corrected. "I get another shot." He plans to leave Arkansas Tuesday morning, after post-


poning his departure for Washington long enough to catch the University of Arkansas basketball team on television tonight. 
* * * 
President Clinton said today that education spending is vital­to the nation's security and cut­ting school programs now "would be just as dangerous as it would have been for us to disarm ... in the Cold War." 
Lamenting Republican plans to trim spending for school lunch, college loan, anti-drug, national service and other edu­cation programs, Clinton said, "This is not rocket science. This is basic. This is America's future." 
He made the remarks at Arkansas State University, where he helped commemorate the opening of the Dean B. Ellis library in northeast Arkansas. 
The speech was part of his strategy to shame budget-slash­ing Republicans into backing off plans to reduce spending on education. He broadcast his weekly radio address Saturday from a Little Rock, Ark., school, decrying the "new rage of no government" in Washington. 
Surrounded on a small stage by old friends from the Arkansas political scene, Clin­ton said, "If we walk away from education, when the 21st cen­tury depends on what we know and what we can learn, it would be just as dangerous as it would have been for us to disarm in the middle of the Cold War. We didn't do that, and we shouldn't do this." 
The speech interrupted what has mostly been a relaxing long weekend for Clinton. 

&DAVID • 

page 4 


Assault 
continued from page 1 
and Saint Mary's campuses. "It's very important to get more male involvement in C.A.R.E. The more men we can educate, the more we can stop the prob­lem. If those who get involved stand up for themselves and resist peer pressure, they can influence their friends. We don't think all men are scum. We realize they can be a great influence on each other and the community," said Sturtz. 
While the majority of rapes are enacted by men, Loughlin added that, "It's important to r-ealize that everyone is a potential victim-males and females. There have even been males raped on the Notre Dame campus. The important point is that we all have the right not to have violence inflicted on us." 

"THELMA AND LOUISE" 
Movie & Discussion Thursday April 6 7 PM at 242 O'Shag 

Strike persists in Philadelphia 
By AMY WESTFELDT 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Thousands of commuters made it to work by bicycle, taxi and train Monday as a week­old transit strike spread to the suburbs. 
The trip to work was a luxury for some and an extra expense for most commuters used to lower-cost buses and trains op­erated by the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation ...tuthority. · 
Some workers are shelling out $5 to $10 on taxis. United Cab Association, which oper­ates 250 taxis, has been taking about a thousand calls more than usual since the strike be­gan last Tuesday, many during commuter peaks. 
Regional rail lines, more ex­pensive than subways, have saved suburban dwellers. 
"I have a video conference in Europe at 8:30a.m. that I can't miss," said chemical company executive Christopher Koob of Radnor as he boarded an ex­press train bound for the city. 
"1 say 'Thank you, SEPTA. Stay on strike longer," said Bill Prader, manager of Bike Line in downtown Philadelphia. He has sold 130 more bicycles so far this year than for the same period last year, most in the past two weeks. 
The 5,200 drivers and me­chanics in Transport Workers Union Local 234 went on strike 

TRANSFER ORIENTATION 1995 
Now accepting applications for the· EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 
Applications available in the Student 
Government Office, ( 2nd Floor Lafortune). 
All applications must be returned by Friday, 
April 7th by 4:00p.m. 
Questions ? Call Mike 4 x 4332 


1994-95 MAIN STAGE SEASON 
NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS
OUR 



COUNTRY'S 
"TiMBERLAKE WERTENBAKER

GOOD BY 
DIRECTED BY REGINALD BAIN 

w A s H N G T 0 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5 ..... 8 P.M. THURSDAY, APRIL 6 ....... 8 P.M. FRIDAY, APRIL 7 ........... 8 P.M. SATURDAY, APRIL 8 ........ 8 P.M. SUNDAY, APRIL 9 .... 2:30P.M. 
RESERVED SEATS $7 
STUDENT AND SENIOR CmZEN DISCOUNTS ARE AVAILABLE WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY AND SUNDAY. liCKETS ARE AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAFoRTUNE STUDENT CENTER liCKET OFFICE. 
MASTERCARD .AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128. 
N H A L L 
VIEWERS MAY FIND SOME OF THE LANGUAGE IN THIS PLAY OFFENSIVE 
after demanding a 9 percent pay raise over three years. SEPTA has said it could afford no more than 7 percent. 
A smaller local of the same union went on strike early Sun­day after its 176 workers also rejected SEPTA's wage offer. 
The weekend walkout meant about 21,500 suburban com­muters joined about 350,000 city dwellers who have been without their usual mass tran­sit since last Tuesday. 
COLD SORES? Apply LYCALL OINTMENT when you feel that first tingle, and the cold sore may ~ot break out at all. Or if it has, LYCALL OINTMENT may help get rid of it in a day or two. 
A':SK YOUR DRUGGIST, or send $4.95 for 8g to: CALEB LABORATORIES, INC. 529 S. Seventh St. Minneapolis, MN 55415 Satisfaction guaranteed. 

Men, 
Tuesday, April 4, 1995 


The Observer/Nicky Batill 

Weird Science 
A student tinkers assiduously in a science laboratory. 

Eternity Awaits... 
Let It! 
Quit Smoking for Easter 
New Life for Your Lungs 
Contact: Len Hickman, PH.D. Smoking Cessation Group UCC: 631-4360 
gJYomen,
OC Power 

Theatrical Performance on Gender Relations 
by the Mulberry Center Mental Health Players 
This improvisational theatre troupe will present dramatic scenes of life at Notre Dame and St. Mary's, followed lnt an interactive discussion between the audience and the cJui.racters. Reception to follow each performance. 
!§~~ da~ r\.l'til4,1.~9$ ( 
< SEX? POWER? >····•···<···· 
. $ih.l.~tibri~ gorie.·w1"6rig ••· ·.·· 
In the Hesburgh Center for Intemational Studies Auditorium 7:00-8:30 pm 
Free tickets available at LaFortune Box Office with student ID. Limited seating may be available at the door. 
Sponsors: 

Uzml""' AUianafor RJqx EliminJditm Cornmwni<llnmu and n.-tr. GrodWlk Stwdent Umon 
w..-...• R5own:e CeniD" SMC Stwdt:nt Govcr......,nt ND St-udent Govcr""""nt 
For information call the University Counseling Center 631-7336. 


... 

Tuesday, April4, 1995 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
It's One Of The Most Useful Credit Cards On The 
Planet. Unless You)ve Stolen It. Your MasterCard® is stolen. You panic, get 
angry, panic some more. Then you call and cancel it. Now the thief is'in possession 
about seven cents worth of stolen plastic. (Maybe he can use it as a coaster when he 
entertains at the hideout.) So relax. You only have to pay for stuff you bought, 
and you can get a new card the next day.· It'll be accepted at millions of places, 
Q 
must sell wallets. MasterCard. Jes more than a credit card. It's smart money.'M r:•• 
"'(.,·rt•llll••'~lrlrtlr'"'''l'l'l)' 
l 
/IJIJ'i \lol•ll'f(:,lflfJurrrrlolfi!IIJt/J /llti'Tjl!lril/l'tf 


'Contract' close to one hundred day mark 
Associated Press 
In their "Contract With America," House Republicans promised action in 10 areas during the first 100 days of the GOP-controlled Congress. 
On Monday, Day 90: 
-House Republicans opened debate on the last item in the "Contract With America," tax cuts. A vote will occur Wednesday. GOP lead­ers negotiated with moderate Republicans who want any tax cuts contingent upon passage of spending cuts that would lead to a balanced budget by 2002. 
-The Senate sent President Clinton legislation restoring a 25 percent tax deduction for the self-f mployed for the health insurance costs. 
-The House passed by foice vote and sent to the Senate legislation establishing a financial oversight board with broad powers to rescue the District of Columbia from financial collapse. The board would have veto authority over spending and borrowing decisions made by the mayor and City Council. 
The legislative status of chief "contract" items: . FISCAL CONTROLS 
-Constitutional amendment 
requiring a balanced budget 
by 2002. Passed House. 
Defeated in Senate. 
-Bill giving the president power to veto individual spending items in appropria­tions bills. Senate action pending; House passed its ver­sion 294-134 on Feb. 6. 
-Bill to discourage Congress from. imposing requirements on states and cities without providing funds to pay for them. Bill passed, Clinton signed into law. 
WELFARE 

-House passed welfare overhaul, 234-199. No Senate action yet. The bill would replace the federal system with payments to the states, which could design their own plans. Overall federal welfare spending would shrink by $66.4 billion over five years. 
It would limit the federal role in setting nutrition stan­dards and caring for the coun­try's most disadvantaged families, impose a five-year limit on cash welfare benefits, ban aid to unmarried parents under age 18 and repeal the automatic guarantee to bene­fits for low-income mothers and their children. 
The bill also would combine school breakfast and lunch, day-care feeding, and Women, Infants and Children feeding programs into block grants to states. 
CRIME 

-Funds for prison construc­tion, relaxed standards for admission of evidence in tri­als, block grants instead of earmarked funds to hire police, limit death-row inmates' abilities to appeal cases to federal court. Passed House. Senate prospects uncertain. 
FAMILY SUPPORT 
-Tax breaks for adoptions and elder care, child-support enforcement. 
Dollar hits another new low 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The dollar hit another record low against the Japanese yen Monday as currency markets brushed aside a massive rescue effort mounted by the Clinton administration. 
Currency traders estimated that the Federal Reserve, act­ing on orders from the administration, sold Japanese yen and German marks to pur­chase dollars in a sum estimat­ed at $1.5 billion to $2 billion, possibly a record for Fed dollar purchases. 
However, the administra­tion's intervention in currency markets did little more than halt a steep decline in the dol­lar. In late New York trading, the U.S. currency was still be­low its levels of last Friday against both t)le yen and the mark. 
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin confirmed that the United States was buying dol­lars in a statement issued early Monday morning in which he repeated past assurances that the administration was intent on defending the U.S. currency. 
So far, the dollar's troubles have not spilled over into other financial markets. On Monday, stocks were up slightly with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 10.72 to close at 4,168.41. Bond prices posted a strong gain, pushing the yield down to 7.38 percent for the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond. 
Investors were encouraged by a report showing weakness in the manufacturing sector that bolstered their belief that 

c-----------~------·­
Pressure on the dollar 
World economic trends, Mexico's economic crisis and the U.S. trade and budget deficits are all combining to batter the value of the dollar down to record lows. 

A world dollar glut 
Causes: 
U.S. economic growth is slowing. The Federal Reserve is less fearful growth will spur inflation, so it Is less likely to raise Interest rates. 
German and Japanese economies are growing faster. Their central banks are less likely to lower rates. 
Effect: Investors earn more money holding investments denominated in marks and yen. They sell dollars, causing an oversupply of dollars. 
............... -.. ....................... "" -·· ... "" ........... --.-..... --..... --.-....................
~ 
Bedeviled by deficits 
Causes: 
A high U.S. trade deficit means Americans are buying 
more imported goods. Foreign companies, paid by 
Americans in dollars, must sell the dollars to obtain their 
domestic currencies. 
The United States has borrowed large amounts of 
money, often from foreigners, to finance Its high budget 
deficit. It repays the loans In dollars. 
Mexico morass 
Causes: 
Mexico's economic crisis weakens the peso, giving Mexicans less buying power. They buy fewer U.S. goods, worsening our trade deficit. 
The United States promised to lend Mexico up to $20 billion to buy pesos to prop up the Mexican currency. ':....;;;~~~ But that money was normally reserved to buy dollars. 
Effect: The U.S. ability to defend the dollar is weakened. Speculators sell more dollars. 
the economy was slowing enough to keep inflation in check. 
"We acted in the exchange markets overnight out of con­cern with recent movements in exchange rates," Rubin said in a brief statement. "This admin­istration belifwes a strong dol­lar is in America's interests and we remain committed to strengthening the fundamen­tals that are ultimately impor­tant to maintaining a strong and stable currency." 
Rubin's confirmation oc­curred after the United States through the Federal Reserve 
APtwm. J. Castello. Steve Sakson 
joined with the Bank of Japan to buy dollars during trading in Asia. Later with the greenback still under heavy downward pressure, the Fed acted alone to buy dollars during trading in New York. 
Traders estimated the United States purchased at $1.5 billion to $2 billion. If the actual figure turns out to be at the high end of traders' estimates, it would be a record, surpassing the $1.6 billion in dollar purchases by the Fed last Nov. 2. The United States last intervened in currency markets in early March. 

• 
Tuesday, April4, 1995

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
First Lady continues trip, visits Bangladesh 
ByNANCYBENAC 
Associated Press 
MOISHAHATI 

Hillary Rodham Clinton said she came to the Indian subcon­tinent to learn, and her teach­ers on Monday were the 
women of a tiny Hindu village. 
T h e y taught her how to drape a sari, they taught her how to wear 


the teep -a Clinton decorative red dot on the forehead -and they taught her about how their lives have changed for the better. 
Moishahati is a Grameen Bank village, one of 35,000 in impoverished Bangladesh where the rural poor can get small loans to make fish nets, keep bees, buy cows, or maybe one day get enough land for a house. 
Women in a rainbow of saris 
gather.ed in the village court­
yard for a testimony meeting of 
sorts, eager to tell Mrs. Clinton 
about their success stories and 
the opposition they had over­
come. 
One woman proudly told Mrs. 
Clinton that where once she 
had nothing to eat, "now I 
have built a house for myself 
with a Grameen Bank loan, I 
have my bed, I have chickens ... 
I have cattle, I can eat enough, 
I send my children to school, I 
keep everything clean." 
These are no small feats in a country where 45 percent of the population lives in poverty, malnutrition is high and only 20 percent of women are liter­ate. 
The first lady and her daugh­ter, Chelsea, made a fashion statement of their support for the effort by wearing "Grameen check" cotton out­fits of the kind commissioned by the bank to encourage busi­ness for hand-loom weavers. 
Grameen is a very unconven­
tional bank, serving almost as 
a way of life and a declaration 
of independence for women in 
this male-dominated culture. 
It was started in 1976 by an 
economics professor, Dr. 
Muhammad Yunus, who de­
cided that the best way to help 
the landless poor of 
Bangladesh was to lend them 
small sums of money to help 
them earn more on their own. 
The bank now serves more 
than 2 million people, with a 
repayment rate of 98 percent 
on loans averaging little more 
than $100. About 94 percent of 
the borrowers are women. 
When the first loan is repaid, 
the borrower "becomes a dif­
ferent woman," Yunus said. 
"This is the way you start be­
lieving in yourself." 
The quiet self-confidence of 
the villagers was evident in 
their questions for the first 
lady. 

"We earn our own income 
and that's how we make our 
families," one woman told Mrs. 
Clinton. "Whose income do you 
live on?" 

Haitian official was on 'hit list' 
By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 
More than 1,000 people lined up under a hot sun Monday to view the coffin of Mireille Durocher Bertin, who was on a long "hit list" of government critics before she was shot dead. 
President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who has denied any government involvement in the killing, sent his justice minister to the crowded funeral in the hillside suburb of Petionville, where many wealthy Haitians live. 
Bertin, 35, was shot in the face on a city street a week ago. She was among more than 100 people on a hit list discov­ered by the U.S. govern­
ment  days  before  the  
slaying.  
Six  people  were  ar­ 

rested before her death on suspicion of plotting political killings. Diplo­mats said one of the sus­pects said he was hired by Aristide's interior min­ister, Mondesir Beaubrun, a former army general. 
The funeral at a Roman Catholic church drew a crowd from across the political spectrum. Sweating in dark suits and dresses, they waited for hours in the heat to file past Bertin's open coffin. 
Many of the mourners spoke of an atmosphere 

of fear among Aristide's oppo­nents. One of them, Patrick Brutus, said shots were fired outside his home Sunday night, soon after he received tele­phone death threats. 
At a news conference, Prime Minister Smarck Michel said several of his ministers Monday morning told him that they, too, had received death threats. 
"We run the same risk as ev­erybody -I don't even know what sort of security I can give myself," Michel said. 
Bertin's husband, Jean, also has received threats, friends said. 
Many stopped to speak with Jean Bertin, two of their four young children, her parents and two brothers, who sat in golden light reflected from the church's stained-glass win­dows. Several relatives col­lapsed in front of the coffin. 
great scores... 
Kaplan helps you focus 
your test prep study 
where you need it most. 
We'll show you the 
proven skills and test-• 
taking techniques that 
help you get a higher 
score. 

great skills... 
Kaplan has the most complete arsenal of test prep 
tools available. From videos to software to virtual 
reality practice tests with computerized analysis to 
great teachers who really care, nobody offers you 
more ways to practice. 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
get a higher score 

KAPLAN 

CHECK OUT THESE OPPORTUNITIES TO HELP MAKE 

''1111'. 
~ oil 
cliiHM

rnE-POSITIVE CHANGES ON CAMPUS: 
'ACTION 
I~
onaJ 
STIJDENT GOVERNM~NT 
CAMPUS SOCIAL LIFE 
Help plan campus wide activities -Campus BBQ -ND Quiz Bowl -Campus-wide Winter Formal -Dorm Snow Sculpture Contest 

We've got more ideas, but we would like to hear yours too! 
Contact: Katie Beirne -+ x 2n5l)

I 
I 
CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS 
Help to better daily life on campus with these projects and add your own to the list at the same time! 
-Increase campus lighting 
-Away football tickets 
-Relocate Grab-n-Go 

-Cigarette vending machines 
-Softer toilet paper 
-New basketball boards 

Contact: Lucy Coughlin 4 x 4X5l) 
i FOR GENERAL QUESTION-;-i 

OR CONCERNS, CALL : STUDENT GOVERNMENT : 
1 X 7668 

: OR STOP BY 2ND FLOOR : 
L___________ LAFORTUNE _j 


CAMPUS COMMUNICATION 
Help us improve communications on campus, especially between students and student government 
-Increase the accessibility to Student 
Government for the students -Quicker responses to your comments -Organize an e-mail forum in order to 
more accurately represent the student body's opinion 
Contact: Jeff Ward 1 x 6283 or e-mail: studegov.l@nd.edu 
.. 
Tuesday, April4, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Further economic growth predicted 
CCl Visa US.A. Inc. l99S 
Yeltsin signs AIDS law 
By ANGELA CHARLTON Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Travelers going to Russia for more than 90 days will have to prove they don't have AIDS, under a law signed Monday by President Boris Yeltsin. Foreign resi­dents who test positive would be deported. 
The measure, which takes effect Aug. 1, also requires mandatory AIDS tests for prison inmates and some Russian workers. 
Although the new law ap­pears drastic, it makes no provision for carrying out AIDS tests, prompting fear and frustration among the thousands of foreigners who live in the Russian capital. 
"It's going to be a bureau­cratic nightmare," said Kevin Gardner, an adviser on AIDS to the World Health Organization. 
Officially, 890 people have tested positive for HIV in Russia, but experts believe the actual number is much higher. 
The bill was approved by parliament in February with little opposition. Yeltsin vetoed an earlier version that would have required even short-term visitors to prove they didn't have HIV, the virus that causes AIDS. 
The new law expands the numbers of foreigners who would be eovered by Soviet­era legislation that required mandatory testing for some foreign residents, notably African students. About 400 foreigners infected with HIV have been deported since the old law took effect in 1990. 
Major Payne (PG13) 4:30,6:45, 9:15 Tommy Boy (PG13) 5:00, 7:30, 9:45 Man of the House (PG) 4:45, 7:15, 9:30 Tall Tale (PG) 4:15,6:45, 9:00 
Hoop Dreams (PG13) 4:30, 8:00 legends of lhe Fall (R) 4:00, 7:00, 9:45 



EUCHRE 
TOURNAMENT 1ST PRIZE SONY WALKMANS 
7:00 p.m. in the Huddle tonight and 
tomorrow sign up in the 
Gorch Games Room 
or just show up $6.00 per team 

By CLARE NULLIS 
Associated Press 
GENEVA 

Economic recovery in Europe and expanded trade throughout North and South America pushed global trade to an 18­year-high in 1994, according to a new report. Another healthy increase is expected this year. 
Africa and the Middle East were the global economy's only poorly performing regions, the World Trade Organization said in a report released Tuesday. 
The volume of exports rose 9 percent last year --more than double the 1993 level and the highest rate since 1976. The value of global merchandise sales jumped 12 percent to top $4 trillion for the first time. 
Trade in commercial services such as banking and tourism was estimated at $1.08 trillion, 6 percent higher than 1993. 
The WTO predicted the vol­u"me of global imports and ex­ports will rise 8 percent this year, but cautioned that might be affected by turmoil in the currency markets. 
It said merchandise trade growth easily outstripped pro­duction growth of 3.5 percent in 1994. Trade traditionally acts as spur to domestic eco­nomic expansion and prosperi­ty. 
"These are not just abstract figures," acting WTO chief Pe­ter Sutherland told business leaders Monday night in Ot­tawa. 
"They mean growth in busi­ness, in jobs and in living stan­dards. And in the WTO, the world has new possibilities for helping to sustain this growth." 
The WTO came into being Jan. 1, succeeding the old Gen­eral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. 
It is in charge of putting into place a trade liberalizing agreement expected to increase exports and imports and fur­ther boost the world economy over the next 10 years. 
The United States was the biggest single trader -and deficit nation -last year. Its merchandise exports rose 10 percent to $512.7 billion, and its imports were up 14 percent at $689.2 billion. 
Germany followed with $421.9 billion in exports and $376.6 billion in imports. 
In third place, Japanese ex­ports of goods rose 10 percent to $397 billion, and its imports increased 14 percent to $275.4 billion. 
Despite continuing u:s. accu­sations about Japanese trade barriers, the surge in imports like computers, telecom­munications equipment, auto­motive products and clothing was much higher than Japan's growth in domestic demand, the WTO said. 
The WTO said a key factor in the international trade expan­sion was the recovery in west­ern Europe, where the value of exports and imports rose 11 percent after big drops in 1993. 

North American merchandise imports rose 14 percent to $846 billion, while exports more than doubled to $679 bil­lion. 
Strong demand in the United States helped push up Latin American exports by 15 per­cent. Latin American imports rose 16.5 percent to $218 bil­lion. 
In Asia, imports soared into Malaysia, South Korea and Sin­gapore as well as in Japan. Ex­port increases of at least 30 percent were recorded for China and Singapore, the re­port said. 
China has risen from 20 to 11 in the list of export rankings in the past decade. 
The fall in world oil prices was to blame for continuing de­clines in trade in the Middle East and some African coun­tries, the report said. 
Because stuff¥ happens. 
""'"Hey this is corporate America. We have to keep it clean. 

It's everywhere -you -vvant to be.® 

THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME WELCOMES TO CAMPUS 
HELEN SUZMAN 
Member of Parliament Strong Opponent ofApartheid System for 40 Years 
THE 1994 RECIPIENT OF THE NOTRE DAME AWARD Wednesday, April 5, Stepan Center, 7:30p.m. 
'""'"".&/
• ~'-""Y..,.... 

•
Prayer Service Notre Dame Folk Choir Voices of Faith Gospel Ensemble 

•
Presentation of the Award by Father Edward Malloy 

•
Acceptance of the Award 


by Mrs. Helen Suzman •Reception 
All members of the Notre Dame Community are welcome to attend. 
-----,.------~··-~----~-..---...-----~-~.-~~------~---~ 
Tuesday, April 4, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Police want to question cult leader in attack 

Asahara goes into hiding as evidence mounts 
By ERIC TALMADGE 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

No one has seen Shoko Asa­hara, the prophet of doom, since he and his followers came under suspicion for the Tokyo subway gas attack. But one of the guru's top lieutenants says Asahara is in Japan, hiding in a place "where he can take a rest." 
• 
Japan has watched with amazement and fear as police at a Mount Fuji commune have discovered more and more evi­dence linking Asahara's secre­tive doomsday cult to the kind of deadly nerve gas unleashed two weeks ago on Tokyo sub­ways. 
But many people are now also concerned about what the police haven't found-Asahara and dozens of the cult's top members, including its team of expert chemists and physicists. 
Police want to question Asa­hara and are looking for at least 30 other Aum Shinri Kyo members connected with the cult's "Science Ministry." 
None, however, has been seen in public since the subway gas attacks, which killed 11 people. 
Asahara has taped radio and video messages denying any role in the subway deaths. He said he was desperately ill, and vaguely called on cult members to come to his aid. It wasn't known where he was when he made the tapes. 
The outspoken guru's sudden shyness has set off a spiral of speculation. Reports place him everywhere from a Tokyo hotel to somewhere in Russia. 
"I am in touch with him," Fumihiro Joyu, one of the gu­ru's top lieutenants, said Mon­day in an attempt to slow the rumor mill. "I cannot say where he is, but I can say he is in a place where he can take a rest." 

Joyu added only that Asahara, who claims to be a messiah sent to save the faith­ful from a world war between Christians and Buddhists, is somewhere in Japan. 
Asahara has said the war will begin in 1997. 
Hideo Murai, the head of the cult's mysterious Science Min­istry, on Monday ended two weeks of silence with a tele­vised interview to deny the cult was making the nerve gas sarin. 
But NHK, the public television network that broadcast the taped interview, refused to say where or when it took place. It was unclear whether police know where Murai is. 
As head of the Science Min­istry, Murai would be in charge of the cult's huge chemical stockpile in the future world war predicted by Asahara. 
Murai's post is even more important because Asahara tends to delegate the daily run­ning of the cult to his senior fol­lowers. 
Daily searches over the past two weeks at the Mount Fuji commune have turned up tons of chemicals and equipment that police say could have been used to make sarin. 
Murai, a trained astrophysi­cist, flatly denied the cult made the gas. 
"I assure you that it could not have been produced with the chemicals available at the Aum facility, which I designed and built," he said. 
But Murai acknowledged that the cult had studied ways to protect itself against sarin, which it claims had been sprayed on its property by vari­ous "invaders." 
Aum has denied any connec­tion with the subway attack and last week's near-fatal shooting of Japan's top police official, who was responsible for its investigation. 
Even so, the cache of poten­tially deadly chemicals found at its commune and several anonymous threats of further attacks on stadiums, hotels· and other public gathering places have deepened the public's mood of apprehension. 
National newspapers have reported that police seized in­gredients to make enough sarin to kill millions of people, and that the cult may have ·been working on biological or even nuclear weapons. 
~~ GREAT 'tYALL 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 
Banquet rooms 
~Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday­
available for 
$8.95 for Adults 
up to 200 
$3.95 for Children under 10 
1219) 272-7376 • 130 Dixieway S. !U.S. 31 in Roseland) at Randall's Inn South B.?nd, IN 

Don't whine, don't complain, don't 
have your mothers call the Dome office because you didn't get your senior· portrait taken. 
We are offering you two opportunities!_.,.,., Do it nowlll No appointment necessarylll Get "decked out" and come on over to room I 08 LaFortune Student Center between 9:00a.m.-5:00p.m. April ]'d-April 7th 
r 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, April4, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 {219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advenising Manager...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor.................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .............. , ........ Ryan Malayter Spons Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor..................... Krista A. Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor.................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Maty's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution, The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nO£ necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor /Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Back in the days of Superman, Batman and Robin 
What I wouldn't give to be seven­years-old again! Man, those were the days. Back in the day, the only focus in life was to see how late you could explore and frolic around your neigh­borhood without getting a whooping from your mother. Your favorite lunch was peanut butter and jelly or bologna and cheese sandwiches with a tall glass of cherry Kool-Aid. Or better yet on Saturday. you would beg and plead with 
Cristiane Likely 

your mother for like 1/2 an hour to take you to McDonalds for a Happy Meal just to get a cheap toy you would lose three days later. Do y'all remember like in the summer you would sit on the curb and eat popcicles, but not fast enough so that you wouldn't have melting syrupy goo on your face, hands, and clothes. Those were the days, I tell ya! 
In my neighborhood, after me and my brother Jason ate dinner, we would run on over to the playground two blocks away to see all the Super Heroes. Yeah, I'm telling you, Superman used to live in my neighborhood! Superman didn't have no cape or stupid blue tights, and if he ever did, he would have had a beat down. The Superman I knew had mus­cles bigger than melons. He was about eight feet tall on a good day, and he never had a reason to curse. He could beat anybody in a foot race and not even break a sweat. He could push you on a swing so fast and so high, I swore you could have shook hands with Jesus. He could scare off any dumb bully with a hard cold mean stare. He was all that was right in the world and for reason only known to him and us, he would treat me and my brother to Blowpops every now and then and tell us about strange, far-off. story-book places like California. 
When Superman wasn't entertaining us kids he used to hang out with his "homeboys", Batman and Robin. The Jenkin's boys. Batman didn't have that lame Batmobile you see in the movies, his Batmobile was a 1973 Forest Green Cadillac Seville with an eight track and booming speakers in the trunk. The Batmobile had the words "Batman Rides Again ... " on the hood. They lived about eight feet away from the playground, but they always used pull out of their driveway, drive around the block and park right in front of the basketball courts so everyone could see their ride. I didn't really like Batman. He had a nervous twitch in his left eye, and you couldn't be cooooooool with a twitch in your eye. He would try to compensate for his obvious coolness deficiencies by trying to act like a roughneck. He never could mount up to Superman, but I guess no one expected him to but him. 
I always thought Robin was a punk. He was weak and whack, and you couldn't be weak and whack in my neighborhood. He would talk a lot of trash and make weighted threats but they proved to be all talk. He would threaten to kick our behinds or take what little money we had but he never had enough guts to do it, until one day he actually got up the nerve to do some· thing besides play craps and drink beer. Some of us kids were playing kick ball when I noticed Batman and Robin walk­ing over to us. Batman seemed bored and uninterested, but Robin saw this as an opportunity to show up. I never understood why he wanted to display his manhood to a bunch of seven-year-olds. 
Anyway, Robin walks over to my brother Jason and grabs him by the shirt, lifts him and flings him into the dirt. Now I couldn't just let somebody beat down my brother, my own flesh and blood. From somewhere deep down inside, I gathered up all the strength, courage, and insanity I had. I walked 

• 

over to Robin, looked at his grinning sneering face and with all my might, I screamed "Don't mess with my broth­er!!" and I kicked him in the ding-ding. Robin turned a bright red, and that was my signal to run like the wind. Of course, a seven-year-old girl cannot out­run a seventeen-year-old boy and just when I was about to feel Robin's bony hands around my neck I saw Superman come out of nowhere and kick the living stuff out of Robin. Oh, I forgot to men­tion that Superman is my oldest brother. It's odd though, Jason and I were never blessed with super powers, now that I think about it, I don't mind. 
Superman, Batman, and Robin remained friends after that little inci­
dent and as always, life went on. So 
now I'm in college, Jason's in the Navy, 
· Batman is a doctor, and Robin is a ' crackhead. Superman? Well Superman is still back home in my neighborhood with a wife and a family, and every now and then he still buys me blow-pops and sends them in the mail. But damn, what I wouldn't give to be seven-years-old again. To sit on the curb and eat popci­cles and listen to Superman tell us about strange, far-off, story-book places like California. Cristiane J. Likely is a junior, comput­er science major. She lives in Pasquerilla West and can be reached over e-mail at: clikely@artin. helios. nd. edu 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QmnE OF THE ll.AY 

MYNAM&IS /?OEJCI<T KINCA/1?. 
I:MA PHOT0­6/?APH&R FOR 
NATIONAL­6C(X3RAPHIC... 
"' 

NO, YOU'R& 
NCJT, YOU'!<& A fJt3Mt-<30£:1 AMY5TICAL­7l?AV&U3R. ... 
tJ 
0 
IU513L./GHT7DRE­
VeAL-NOTOBJ£:Cf5 
8l!TMYOWN KJN[}OF 7Rf.!TH. I 7HOI.EHTIV 5H(XJ{7Hf3 FltXPW­
OUT!:!RJ~WT 
HtR& AT5UNEET... 
I 
IJJOUW 
YOU UK& 
7V COIY1&­IN ANI} Rl3MOV/3 
YOUR9-flf<T UNTIL-ITS 
T/M/3? 

IA/&U., I 7HOUGHT Ev. HO/AJ A80UTA 
MTW 
\ 
"Life is like film -it will develop only if you take your best shot." 
-Bazooka Joe Fortune 

..---------~-----_....--------------.. 
VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 4, 1995 page 11 
----~-­
J 
l 
j
• LEnERS TO THE EDITOR 
I 
A note from the editor... 
As part ofSexual Assault Awareness Week t:he Viewpoint Department is printing letters from victims about their experiences with assault. In order to protect identities we have used anonymous bylines unless the writers have permitted · the use oftheir names. We are asking for others who feel comfortable telling their story to step forward and share their experience, as it . may be a way to help others. We will maintain confi.den· tiality ClS requested, but do ask that some identification appear on the letters for veri­fication purposes. Thank you. 
ND image not as important as victims of assault 
Dear Editor: it is a problem on this campus. rape when it does not involve a 
r------lllll!lr-•••• I am writing this letter for I can say that rape IS a prob­male from our community. Sexual Assault Awareness lem at Notre Dame. It is a one Horror stories about the way Week. Last year at this time I that is not acknowledged, not women were treated by the wrote a letter about being addressed and certainly not administration when they raped and my experience with publicized. The time for denial reported an attack involving the criminal justice system. I is over. Notre Dame males are com­was raped in 1991 at· age 17. When a female is attacked on mon. The administration needs Two years later, the assailant Notre Dame property, we are to spend a little less time wor­plead guilty to sexual assault. warned. There were signs up rying about the image of the He was sentenced to one year in all of the dorms after the University and a little more on of probation. Last summer, he parking lot and Grotto incidents the female involved. completed that probation. last year. Before the perpetra­Rape is a violent, degrading, 
After my letter appeared in tor was caught, before the case devastating crime. The women the Observer, I received phone was tried, before anyone was and men of Notre Dame and calls and letters from many found guilty, the women of Saint Mary's deserve a safe women in the Notre Dame and Notre Dame were warned-for environment. They also Saint Mary's communities. I our safety. Why is it that when deserve more support and bet­received words of support and the case involves a Notre Dame ter treatment when that safety encouragement, as well as sto­male, we do not hear about it? is threatened or taken away. ries of pain and suffering. Does everyone know that there The members of our communi­From a secretary in one cam­are currently three Notre Dame ty need to be aware and join pus building to an RA from a rape cases being investigated together to take action. Rape is friend's dorm, I was appalled at by the prosecutor's office? a problem at Notre Dame, and how many women had been Never did I see a sign on cam­it cannot be tolerated any raped. pus warning me that an inci­more. 
Most people believe rape is a dent had occurred and to be SARAH KAHLER problem in this country, but careful. It seems as if Notre Junior few people I know believe that Dame is only concerned about Off-Campus 
Reconstructing a shattered past takes time 
Dear Editor: fear, a sense of 'secrecy," inadequacy, sequently experienced all the night­and conflict can explode into physical 
While many of the articles appearing and an extreme sense of worthlessness. mares, powerlessness, and depression. violence, freezing, withdrawal, or trying in The Observer typically focus upon the Until the rape, I couldn't remember At times, the emotional pain and trauma to manipulate the situation to meet a personal stories of victims of rape and much of my childhood, but afterwards of the relationship made it difficult to need of simple reassurance and love. sexual abuse during this week, there is many of the good childhood experiences physically move or sleep at night or Concurrently, assertion by a survivor an issue that is rarely addressed: the came back with the bad ones. (Many vic­focus on my work. often brings on the fear of abandonment rebuilding of one's life after experienc­tims of childhood sexual assault never We both recognized that our relation­or, worse yet, resentment or public ing the trauma of sexual assault. I have regain all of the memories; they may ship was out of control and started to shaming by a partner. All the original eneountered struggles in rebuilding my come back in pieces and parts which seek professional help; however, my anger, resentment, and hurt can resur­life and trusting relationships with peo­are never completely filled.) partner put all of the blame upon me. face as an adult whenever present ac­ple who have been willing to love me Nter months of therapy, I finally had He was unable to handle the stress of tions repeat abusive behaviors; an through the difficult process of healing. l the courage to go to my "first" party and dealing with conflict and healing, be­understanding of what is painful is nec­have chosen to share this because there meet new people and renew old ac­came abusive, hurtful, and was not able essary in order to successfully resolve may be an individual in need of hope quaintances. With time I was able to to be someone I could unconditionally issues of conflict. 
that life can be .rebuilt or an individual in a relationship with a survivor who may need encouragement or need to make a decision about a relationship. 
It disappoints me that I cannot even use my name to validate my journey be­cause, as my abusers took away so much of my life and forced secrecy to cover their guilt and failures, there are those in this community who will place me once again in the shadows with their cruel judgments. My solace is in the knowledge that my sharing may provide hope to another "kindred spirit." 
For me, it was the actual moment of being violently raped here, at Notre Dame, that brought back a flood of childhood memories similar to the assault. Hemembering the past during the recent assault was so traumatic that I couldn't speak or move any part of my body for hours. I became like the help­less six-year old child that just stared at the ceiling and "zoned out" until it was over and when it was I couldn't move. 
The worst part of the rape was that it was committed by a trusted friend. Dealing with the present assault and past memories were so powerful that I tried to commit suicide, but fortunately was taken to the hospital before it was too late. I was also lucky that it was a holiday weekend, so I didn't miss any classes or a critical exam; yet the follow­ing days were a constant struggle between studying and crying in silence because I felt that no one could un­derstand. 
In therapy, I began to learn to deal with the past. It really took a long time to be able to be happy for myself and to learn to be happy for my friends that had "normal" lives: to be able to look at children and pregnant women and smile; to be happy for my girlfriends get­ting married and actually attend their weddings; and to deal with the loss of innocence. It may be hard for you to understand, but for me, many "firsts" were all stolen away by trusted, abusive people who could only think of them­selves and about controlling someone else. I did not get a choice, and remem­bering the extent of the childhood abuse crushed many of my hopes and dreams. 
Throughout my childhood, I never remembered the abuse, only feelings of find happiness in the simple pleasures of life (taken for granted by most people) and most of all build friendships with 
'Jused to think that healing 
would be over when I fell in love with someone who knew 'how to' love me, meet my emotional needs, and right all the wrongs committed by the men in the past, but then I real­ized that that particular idea or dream unfairly placed control in someone else's hands and left me powerless...' 
men. It was dif cult to share with my family what ha pened because of the accompanying g ilt, blame, and shame it could cause and a fear that all the issues to be resolved with them would be more than I could emotionally han­dle. 
So I chose to forgive. I chose not to share and "ruin" my abuser's memory (he died when I became a teenager); however, forgiveness didn't mean that I would forget a sense of the betrayal or that there wouldn't have to be private "milestones" before a loving relationship with my family could be restored. 
During this time, I was finally fortu­nate to build a relationship with an indi­vidual with whom I believed I could share some of these issues and who unknowingly was present through many of my milestones. However, as the relationship progressed I learned that I still had a lot of growing to do and that I needed to have this new relationship grow slowly so that I could learn to trust and not hurt the other person by my lack of security in men. 
Unfortunately, with time, this individ­ual had an alternative agenda that did not focus on building a lasting rela­tionship. I found myself part of a rela­tionship built on secrecy, lies, and con­trol-all the elements that were present during my abusive childhood-and sub-confide in without a crisis occurring. Although the relationship ended in "cri­sis" and can never be reconciled, I find strength in the knowledge that it ended before it became more abusive and hurtful. 
I used to think that healing would be over when I fell in love with someone who knew "how to" love me, meet my emotional needs, and right all the wrongs committed by the men. in the past, but then I realized that that partic­ular idea or dream unfairly placed con­trol in someone else's hands and left me powerless (thus perpetuating the idea of being a victim). Instead, I have dis­covered that we reach points where we have made decisions to grow and heal on our own, and are able to safely con­fide our growth In someone we love and trust. 
Several therapists have documented the difficulty survivors have in determin­ing "boundaries." These boundaries may be sexual, trust issues-feeling safe to share emotions, dealing with religious or spiritual issues (i.e. how could a lov­ing God allow abuse?). Abuse and assault are rooted in the issue of power: the power of an abuser over a victim and concurrent removal of power from the victim. Because learning to restore power to a survivor is critical to the process of healing, it is essential that this action of removing power not be re­peated. 
Power can be taken away by placing the survivor in situations which repeat behaviors present in the original abuse. These may include verbal shaming, a relationship of secrecy, loss of control, lack of respect, and physical, emotional, or spiritual violations of trust by a part­ner. As I painfully discovered, even the slightest of these acts can elicit similar childhood responses of which I did not realize I was even capable. 
Many sexually abused children learn to restore power through silence, abu­sive eating patterns, "acting out," and temper tantrums to gain control in dis­agreements, conflicts, or relationships. Failure to draw boundaries and learn the boundaries of others can lead many survivors to revictimization by an adult relationship. 
For some survivors, threat of control 
In some cases of chHdhood abuse where healing has not occurred, the cycle of abuse continues because the survivor can become abusive, and, sub­sequently, relationships can fail because it takes a tremendous amount of un­derstanding, time, patience, genuine love and forgiveness to exist between two people for a survivor to learn to deal with conflict and disagreement safely, kindly, and with respect for the other person. A healing relationship should involve mutual respect, care, concern, and most of all honesty and trust. It should never place you in a situation of mental, physical, or emotional danger. 
It may take time for a survivor to build trust and require a partner to show a great deal of patience. If you are in a relationship where you honestly cannot 
'All the original anger, 
resentment, and hurt can resurface as an adult whenever present actions repeat abusive behaviors; an understanding of what is painful is necessary in order to successfully resolve issues of conflict.' 
be supportive, show physical restraint and/or discernment, and provide under­standing of a survivor of sexual abuse or rape, just leave-because staying can cause more harm than good. 
Furthermore, many survivors have been devastated by sexual relationships with individuals who serve as their sup­port. It is a way of replicating the origi­nal abuse, of breaching the trust the survivor has worked so hard to estab­lish, and can be one area in which the survivor's desires may not accurately re­flect what is necessary in a healing relationship. It is critical for some sur­vivors to experience nonsexual nurtur­ing in order to heal, learn to respect oth­ers and to draw boundaries. 
ANONYMOUS 
Graduar~ Srud~nr 

,­
1
I .,­
1 
I I I 
ACCE,NT
I page 12 Tuesday, April4, 1995
I 

I I I I I 
I 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Recovery: The anatomy.of hangover· 
groups. 
Hven though so:rrie peOple sume more alcohol than o experience fewer effects,;due size, gender, or tolerance; no·.· avoid a hangover ifthey ~>n''"n""'' hoi at a Jaster rate>than tv:,,,,~.:...ur JJ'"'' processed bythe liver: 0.5 v~'""''"' alcohol perhour =1 beer•..:: 
' ·':':·~··=·­

can 
water ·you lost -drank!).+6\li _, ... _, ns In addition to its ...._...&._....... alcohol also your bi6od 
blo~?d ~ugar 
the blood, well as your give YOll one 
As. if this stimulates the pr(J•<Ju,ctl(ln of :JltOntMh acid and causes 
tion of fats till it Pt(l•ces;ses.. au tne: ;alt~ohi()l in your system. tions lead to the "~'"',"'a 
you inevitably face 
How can 1 avoid lt? 
Unfortunately. limiting yourself to one drink an hour and replenishing the flu~ ids youlose while you're .out l}.re the . only sure ways to prevent a hangover; otherwise the morning after may make you· wish you were never out the night before. Good luck and Stay Healthy! 
Ryan Grabow's column Medical Minute appears evry Tuesday in the Accent ·section of Tht') Observer. Comments or Suggestions e-.mait: Ryan.J.Grabow.1@nd.edu 

Intern provides support for victims 
By ANGIE KELVER Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
S
aint Mary's senior Erin Lowney has jumped head-first into the working world during her internship this past year. Since September, Lowney has been working at Sex Offense Services, a division of South Bend's Madison Center hospital. sixteen hours a week. 
The intern program for Social Work majors is designed to give students an opportunity to experience an office set­ting in their particular field of interest. The program provides a chance for them to get a taste of what the real world is like, before they are thrown into it after graduation. 
Sex Offense Services offers assistance to a wide range of people, from individ­ual and group counseling for victims, to crisis intervention and education in the 
and battling with jammed copy ual abuse. 
area schools. 
machines. After completing the cns1s in­
During her time_ there, Lowney has Laurel Eslinger, director of Sex tervention training, Lowney then wenthad a chance to work in many of these Offense Services, has appreciated hav­on to another training program, invarious areas. 
ing Lowney in the office because of the order to work with the prevention
She looks upon her time at Sex 
many projects with which she has aspect of the sexual assault issue. SheOffense Services as incredibly positive, helped. is now a presenter for two of Sexsaying, "This internship has certainly "I really appreciate having a student Offense Service's prevention programs:reinforced my decision to go into the devote so much of her time and energy "Subject: Sexual Abuse", which is given field of Social Work." 
to SOS," Eslinger said. "She's been a in area middle schools, and "No Means gift to our agency in the many contribu­No," the program designed for highIn order to intern at the Sex Offense tions she has made. I hope this is the school students. 
Services office, Lowney first had to 
beginning of a long relationship with
complete a 33-hour volunteer program, students working in the office this Additionally, she has created infor­
in which other Notre Dame/Saint 
way." mational sheets on different types ofMary's students and South Bend com­Expanding beyond typical agency sexual abuse to be used as handouts for 
munity members also trained to 
functions does seem to be a frequent educational purposes. 
become crisis intervention advocates. 
occurrence for Lowney. The diversity "It is really important to me to try toOnce this training is complettJd, each of projects and assignments she has help students deal with this issue. Thisadvocate is "on call" one six-hour shift participated in emphasizes the educa­is the area where we can start to edu­per week. This consists of answering tional aspect of this internship. cate in hopes of someday eliminatingphone calls or going to the hospital to the type of mentality that breeds sexual provide support for victims of sexual After completing her crisis interven­assault." Lowney said. 
assault. 
tion training, she has moved on to work Though Lowney may graduate inLowney explained, "The training and with a wide range of people. May, and go out into the workforce,
crisis intervention work has been a 
She has co-facilitated a support group what she has learned at Sex Offensegood reinforcement of the skills that I for female adolescents who have been Services will be with her for a lifetime.
have been learning for my Social Work sexually abused. By being exposed to this issue at suchmajor." 
She also wrote a newsletter for par­close range, it is unlikely that she could While at work, Lowney does periodi­ents of children with learning disabili­ever forget the depth of the problem orcally have to assist in the more tedious ties, providing information for them on the dedication of the people working totasks of office work. She has dabbled 
how to talk to their children about sex-change it. 
in making coffee, answering phones, 
The Mulberry Players: Education by sociodrama 
By CARA STIRTS something that relates to them, when they see a slice of life. Accent Writer Increasing self awareness and personal empowering is really important." 
R
ole play, improvisational theater, audience interaction, One reason The Mulberry Players are so effective is the sociodrama -The Mulberry Players. Who are these way they interact with the audience. The size of the audience unique performers? What do they hope to accomplish is usually limited to create a certain environment. by bringing their actr to Notre Dame? "We try to obtain an intimate atmosphere, especially when 
The Mulberry Center Mental Health Players consist of we're dealing with sensitive issues," Moore said. "The major­about 20 staff members of the Mulberry Center in Evansville, ity of role plays include audience participation. If the group is Indiana. They are trained to use interactive theater and role too large, people can't hear and some people are intimi­play for educational purposes. The Mulberry Players perform dated." real life scenes about certain topics, then stay in character to The Mulberry Players found their most recent audience at interact with the audience. the Hesburgh Center at Notre Dame. Last night a group of 
The techniques of interactive theater and using role play to four Mulberry Players performed scenes involving gender educate the public began in the sixties. It proved to be very issues. Tonight, as a part of Sexual Assault Awareness Week, effective, and several Mental Health Player groups started to the same group will present scenes that deal with power perform throughout the United States and Canada. issues and sexual assault. These performances have been 
About two years ago, Stephanie Moore started The especially geared to relate to situations at Saint Mary's and Mulberry Players. She had been involved with sociodrama for Notre Dame. three years before she went to the Mulberry Center. She Ceila Loughlin, chair of C.A.R.E. at Notre Dame, helped to thought it would be a great idea to start a Mental Health bring about Sexual Assault Week. Players group at the Mulberry Center. After getting enough Loghlin explains, "Sexual Assault Awareness Week is so support, The Mulberry Players was finally created. important because it is an opportunity to make people aware 
The role plays performed by The Mulberry Players are of sexual assault, that it happens. Hopefully it will open dis­learning experiences for the audience, and are performed for cussions and make people look for situations and become educational purposes. The Mulberry Players can improvise a more aware." variety of situations. The Mulberry Players may be just what Saint Mary's and 
"Typical issues are usually substance abuse. divorce, family Notre Dame need. problems and child abuse.," Moore explained. "We also do a "The good thing about The Mulberry Players is that a dis­lot in schools involving peer pressure and self esteem. This is cussion is intertwined with their presentation.," comments improvisational work. We take whatever specific issues our Loughlin. "They stop and stay in character to explore these hosts request and tailor make our performances for them." issues with the audience. This opens up other discussions, 
The Mulberry Players use their skills to generate thoughts helps us realize that sexual assault is out there, and might and ideas from the audience members. to inspire feelings, to cause people to get involved enough to end it." promote awareness and to make people think. Role play, improvisational theater, audience interaction, 
"The purpose of The Mulberry Players is to increase self sociodrama -it really works! awareness," stated Moore. "We are an educational tool, and The Mulberry Players have used these techniques to pro­don't present any one belief system. We stimulate the feel­mote awareness. change attitudes, dispel stereotypes and to ings and thoughts of the audience members." educate the public on many different occasions. And now 
She added, "Many people are empowered when they see they have come to educate Notre Dame. 

page 13 
The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, April 4, 1995 
• I 
• PROFESSIONAL GOLF 
I I I I I 
Love enters Masters, but tour loses friend 
By BOB GREEN 
Associa!cd Press 
AUGUSTA 

Davis Love fought back tears after a victory in New Orleans gave him a last-minute place in the Masters and turned himself into one of the tournament fa· vorites. 
The tears, however, almost certainly would have flowed had he known of the applause from a deathbed in Austin, Texas. 
Ben Crenshaw told the story Monday following the death of Harvey Penick. coach and teacher, mentor and friend to several generations of Texas golfers. 
Penick, 90, for almost a half c~ntury head pro at the Austin Country Club and for more than 30 years golf coach at the University of Texas, died at his home Sunday following a lengthy illness. 
"You know Mr. Penick and Davis' father were close friends," Crenshaw said before a practice session at the Augusta National Golf Club. 
"Tom Kite was talking to him Sunday afternoon and told him Davis was leading New Orleans. Mr. Penick couldn't talk very well at that point, but he clnpped his hnnds, renl loud, three times." 
Love's win. the ninth of his career, saved the Masters from potential embarassment. 
Although he's been having a good year -his win In New Orlenns vaulted him to third on the money-winning list -one of the world's top golfers would have been left out of Augusta this week. 
lronically. the man Love beat in the playoff, second-year pro Mike Heinen. had alredy quali· tied because he won once last year. So now Love becomes one of the favorites along with Ernie Els, Nick Faldo, Nick Price, Greg Norman, Bernhard Langer, Corey Pavin and Peter Jacobsen. 
But last year's winner, Jose Maria Olazabal. is likely to have some trouble. 
Like Crenshaw, a former win· ner, he's got a sore big toe on his right foot. 
Olazabal is on the mend from surgery on the toe in January. Limping noticeably, he missed the cut in New Orleans last week and came to Augusta ear­lier than expected. 
He declined any comment nfter a practice round at Augusta National, but his man· ager, Sergio Gomez, said he is not limping as badly as he was earlier. 
The Observer accep1s classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. a1 the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. lo 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
stolen from an unlocked car at  
NOTICES  Turtle Creek early Sunday morning after 3:30A.M. If anyone knows  
anything, saw anything, or has the  
bag, call me at 273·8567 so I can  
FORREST  GUMP  get it back.  No questions asked.  I  
CUSHING  Fri/Sat  8/1030  just want to graduate on time.  Four  
brought by SUB  years is enough.  
PLEASE 0 PLEASE 0 PLEASE  
Papers. resumes.  please return the blue suede coat  
cover letters and envelopes.  "accidentally" taken from the Junior  
Call 255-4999  Class Bash at Union Station on  
Friday, March 31. You don't want it  
I've got le Fever for Le Mansi II  because it has holes in the pockets  
(the SPIRIT'S comin')  and the lining is all shredded. It's  
my only real coat!!!  
EUCHRE  EUCHRE  EUCHRE  Call Isabelle x4717 to schedule its  
EUCHRE  EUCHRE  return.  
EUCHRE TOURNAMENT April 4th and 5th at 7pm in the  WANTED  
Huddle  
only $6 per team  I NEED YOU!  I NEED YOU!  
1st prize: SONY WALKMANS  Looking for a ride to Knoxville,  
Sign up In the GORCH GAMES  Tennessee for Easter Break.  If  
ROOM or at the INFO DESK in  your going to or through, could I  
LaFortune.  ride with you?  
Call Larry at 634·3597 if you can  
EUCHRE  EUCHRE  help.  Thanks.  
EUCHRE  EUCHRE  EUCHRE  
.....................................  Wanted: Guitarist & drummer for previously succesful. profitable rock  
ATTENTIONII  band.  Must be here in summer.  
ST. EDWARD'S CARNIVAL  Call John at 237-9075.  
is APRIL 29th!  
If you would like to  Female, graduate, non-smoking,  
DANCE with TROOP ND  reliable roommate for beautiful  
Start coming to classes!l  apartment with low rent (ex  
Tuesdays. 8:00·9:00 p.m.  Studebaker guest house) for  
@ 219 Rockne  Summer 95 and year 95-96. Call  
?s CALL Melanie x4957 .......................................  634-4403.  

MALE/FEMALE. ROOM/BOARDffRAVEL OFTEN PFIOVIDEDI GUIDE. GUARAN­TEED SUCCESS! (919)929·4398 extA1082 
AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII, ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929· 4398 ext. C1082. 
5 students -5 private bedrooms, 2 full baths. washer and dryer, large rec room. Your own personal frat house CALL NOW 277-0636 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232·2595 
2 BDRM AVAIL. NOW $295 MO. 3 BDRM. NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­PUS.272-6306 

Mac.Pwrbk.$1k obo 284-5256 intended for allllllll!llllllllllllllllll 
TICKETS 
LAST CHANCEl tix to KC for Easter 4-1397 Scott 
PERSONAL 
Hey Taco Bell Boys (AZ Jeep)· We were FIRST! #13 Lafayette? 
call x4329 

EASTER BREAK· ATLANTA AREA!I I NEED a ride. call 4-4805. Jen 
000 The Copy Shop 000 SOPHOMORES ... 
Ride to Duke for Easter. Call $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$ Carolyn at 272-7087. Are you going to read those things 
...................

again? I think not. 2323·2342 Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard Leaving town? 
Responsible professional 40-ish ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK-man employed in downtown South FAST. 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL Bend looking to house sit for 3 "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60. months to one year. Let me ensure FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME· that your home is properly tended SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA-while you're away. My current 
Giants sign Walker Waddle 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
Now that they have Herschel Walker in the fold, the New York Giants won't have to worry about the loss of Dave Meggett. 
Walker signed a 3-year, $4.8 million contract with the Giants today, less than a week after being released by the Philadelphia Eagles. 
The deal includes a $1.8 mil­lion signing bonus and a $500,000 contract for this sea­son, sources close to Walker said. 
He will be paid $1.1 million next season and $1.4 in 1997. 
"I want to thank the Giants for this," Walker said at a news conference. "It' a big home­coming for me. I consider this my second home. I started my career here and I want to end it here." 
The Heisman Trophy-winning running back started his career at Giants Stadium as a member of the New Jersey Generals of the now-defunct United States Football League. He is return­ing now to take over the Giants' third-down and return special­ist job that opened when Meggett left the team to join the New England Patriots as a free agent. 

Walker is excited by the prospect of returning to the Meadowlands and playing for coach Dan Reeves. 
"I want to win a champi­onship," Walker said. "Whatever it takes and what­ever I have to do, that's what I want to do. My objective is to be in camp early, so I can learn what I have to learn. 
"There's no doubt in my mind I can contribute a great deal to whatever team I'm on. I consid­er myself a player who can still do a lot of good things in the NFL." 
Walker, who can run and catches passes out ot the back­field, will spell Rodney Hampton. Walker also can play the upback on punts, return kickoffs -his 27.7 -yard aver­age was the NFL's second best last season -and block when used as a fullback. 
Walker rushed for a team­high 528 yards and five touch­downs, and caught 50 passes for 500 yards in 1994 for the Eagles. 
heads to Cincinatti 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 

The Cincinnati Bengals have signed receiver Tom Waddle, one of the Chicago Bears' most popular players the past five seasons, to a one-year contract for $350,000. 
Waddle, 28, was an all-state receiver at Moeller High School in Cincinnati before going to Boston College. He became the Bears' clutch receiver, known for making tough catches over the middle. 
Waddle had 25 catches for 244 yards and one touchdown last season, when he missed severl games due to injury. He has 173 catches for 2,109 yards and nine touchdowns in his pro career. 
"He's shown that it pays to go to him when you're looking for someone to get the necessary yardage on a third down," coach Dave Shula said Monday. 
If you see sports, happening call The Observer 
Summer Camp Staff: Camp Chateaugay in the beautiful Adirondacks is looking for coun· selors that can instruct in the follow­ing activities: Tennis, Basketball, Sailing, Windsurfing, Gymnastics, Woodworking, Canoeing. Please call Laurie at 1·800-487-3866 
SUMMER JOBS ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS NEAR LAKE PLACID 1·800· 786·8373 
ALASKA SUMMER JOBS ·Very High Earnings Potential with over 8,000 openings! Students work on fishing vessels and in onshore can· neries. No exp. necessary. Male/Female. Room/Board & Transportation often free. Call Student Employment Services for Directory. (206)545-4155 ext A55841 
Looking For Summer Housemate. Good Area, Less Than 5 Min. from School w/ your Own Room for 175 
+ Phone. Call Joey, 289·6648. 
FOR RENT 

Female housemates needed to sublet for summer mos. and maybe share lease for 95·96 school year. Mostly funished apt. at College Park. 
272-1538 LIVE IN A GOOD NEIGHBOR· HOOD FURNISHED HOMES NORTH OF ND FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR IDEAL FOR 3·8 STUDENTS 2773097 
HOUSE FOR 4 STUDENTS 
(PREF. GRAD., SAME GENDER). NEAR CAMPUS. SECURITY SYS· TEM. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD. FREE SUMMER STORAGE. 
AVAIL. AUG.-MAY. CALL 233-5698 OR 233-8444. 
FOR SALE 
'90 red ford escort, new tires, good condition, $4,000 634-4098 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato· ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 
Beautiful '90 Acura Integra LS Coupe 5sp Champagne-Silver,AC power sunroof,spoiler, 55k miles $9200, '94 ND Grad in Chicago, must sell, but hate to part. Call (312) 661-7278 
Need furniture for next year? 4 seniors @ Turtle have LOTS of NICE furniture! Call for details: 277·7597 

Lafortune Student Center Come celebrate SPRING and deco· WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE. rate EASTER EGGS with kids from & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR St. Margaret's. WEDNESDAY, CONVENIENCE! II APRIL 5. during lunch. Phone 631-COPY Transportation will leave at 11:45 
and 12:45, so you can stay for an Thurs. April 6 is BADIN COMEDY hour or two. It's a great service NITE. A chance for campus come-project and promises to be a lot of dians to strut their stuff and win fun. Call Brian x1058 or Sean CASH! If you have a friend who x4008, or just show up. Trust us... makes you laugh or if YOU think **"***YOU WILL HAVE FUN****** you're pretty funny, and would like 
to try stand-up comedy call MK @ Who·Fest is Friday April 7. x2735. Celebrating 31 years of "The 
World's Greatest Rock'n'Roll Band" If you watch Days of Our Lives -Come on the Amazing Journey-everyday without fail. or know someone who does and wants to write about it, please call631-4540 Women's Lax highlights: NOWII "Will someone get some balls here 
and pull out?" 
Looking for undergraduate with "Julie, did you need some ice for solid medical background to write your***?" bi-weekly column for Accent. Story Time w/ Molly Please call631-4540 Camels in Kokomo 
The van that didn't want the trip to I STILL NEED YOU! end Larry is still looking for a ride to Waking up at 5 AM • 'null said Tennessee for Easter Break. Three wins, baby! Knoxville is ideal, Nashville is Thanks for a great time and being acceptable. If you are going any-patient w/ me. women! where near those cities this break. (Now. as soon as I figure out that please call Larry at 634·3597. Will three second rule .... ) 
share gas, tolls, expenses. 
ADOPTION ·A LOVING CHOICE Dyslexics of the world untie. Pediatrician and pediatric nurse happily married for seven years are Happy Birthday Michele! hoping to share our love with a We love you! child. We love the outdoors, have -Womenof7B 
comfortable home and country lake­side cottage. Will provide secure. Kat -Sorry your boy Corliss fell to 
NEE, 219-773-2034. home is being redone. Live alone. loving home with full time mom. the brothers O'Bannon. We'll 
ILOST & FOUND I Have impeccable professional and COLLEGE PARK CONDO: LOSE WEIGHT FOR SUMMER! Counseling and allowable expens-always have Whoo. Pig. Sooie. personal references. Lifelong For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished After 3 kids, I lost 231bs., went from es. Call Kim or Mike at 1·800-469· and the Stunt Babies. tho. I'll help Michiana resident. Call (616) 699-unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st. size 9 to a 3 in 8 weeks, w/o 0559 you drown your NCAA sorrows 5993. Call: (818)441·1275 diets/drugs/exercise. All·natural Thursday. No fugitives, please. 
.........................

Lost: Tear·drop multi·stoned products, easy, guaranteed! Kelly Hey You! Yes You! bracelet at Bridget's the Thursday ••••••••••NOTICE*•••••••..•••• 1-800·209-2150 The Senior Lecture Series has If you want tapes of Saturday's before Spring Break· PLEASE seeking a ride to Nashville for If you are interested in living at been graced with a talk from the God Street Wine. call Eric at CALL IF FOUND!ill x3842 ask for easter brk. call patrick X4050 Turtle Creek next year, call Chris For Sale: incredible Father Miscamble X4223 or Bill at 273·0605 Katie at 273-1399 as soon as possible. '84 red cavalier entitled, "Is the World Going to 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOY-93,000 miles Hell? If so, what can we do about The Gabbles are coming! Help! II A bookbag containing a MENTI EARN THOUSANDS THIS Rent NOW for Fall Semester • com-minty it.?" Tonite-April4, 7pm·8pm. The Gabbles are coming! written senior thesis and five books SUMMER IN CANNERIES, pletely remodeled home in great call Mike 277·2631 with best offer Montgomery Theater· Lafortune. May the best team win. essential for its completion were PROCESSORS. ETC. student neighborhood. Available to Sponsored by the Senior Class but 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April4, 1995 
•NHL 
Roenick, Hawks hurting Montreal snaps losing 
streak; Blues top Leafs 
By MIKE NADEL accidental." Associated Press Immediately after their 2-1 
loss to Hatcher's Dallas Stars, 
CHICAGO the Blackhawks were convinced 
Jeremy Roenick can't hate the injury was no accident. Derian Hatcher. "Put it this way -the guy 
"It was just a collision," he that did it is good at doing it," said Monday, the day after Chicago coach Darryl Sutter Hatcher's hit ended Roenick's said. "I've seen it happen be­season with a knee injury. "I've fore." got respect for Derian. I don't Monday, Sutter said: "I was think he was trying to injure speaking emotionally after the me. He works hard. He's tough. game. I'm not speaking emo­And sometimes, in the spur of tionally now. But it's still true. tlie moment, things happen." Hatcher defmitely stuck out his 
Roenick, the Chicago-knee. I'm not saying it was in-Blackhawks' best player and tentional. But the stipulation in inspirational leader, was in the rules is it doesn't matter if pain. His left knee in a brace, it's accidental or intentional. crutches at his side, he knows The league is supposed to be he has a long rehabilitation cracking down on that stuff." ahead to mend his torn anterior Even if the league starts cruciate ligament. He'll under-cracking down now, it won't go more tests in a few weeks, help Sutter's Blackhawks, who "and then I'll find out the real face the final 15 games and the news: whether it's four months playoffs without a player who or 12." averaged 50 goals and 106 
"Sometimes you feel you're points the last three seasons. invincible," he said. "But when Roenick's injury left Chicago you do your job -when you do with only three healthy centers: this job-accidents happen." Bernie Nicholls, Brent Sutter 
Hatcher said as much in and Jeff Shantz. Newcomer Sunday's postgame locker Murray Craven, acquired to room. play left wing, is another center 
"I might hit and I might play possibility, but he's also rough, but I would never try to injured. The NHL trading dead­end anyone's career," he said, line is this week, and the his voice cracking with emo-Blackhawks won't be able to ti9n. "Everything happens with-get a player anywhere near the in a lOth of a second out there. quality of Roenick without gut­1was just corning across and he ting their team. cut in. He jumped ... everything "It magnifies how we have to happened so fast. I respect him. do things as a team and how said. "The problem is that Jeremy is such an important part of our system, with his speed and aggressiveness." 
During the first half of the lockout-shortened season, the Blackhawks looked like legiti­mate Stanley Cup contenders, battling Detroit for the top Western Conference record. But Detroit has outplayed the Blackhawks recently to take control, leaving Chicago and St. Louis to fight for second place in the Central Division and third in the conference. 
"They lost me for the year and that's a reality," said Roenick, who had been trying to renegotiate his contract. 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA 
Vincent Damphousse's goal with 14 seconds remaining lift­ed the Canadiens past the Senators 5-4 Monday night, breaking Montreal's nine-game road losing streak.. 
Damphousse, Kirk Muller, Yves Racine and Jean-Jacques Daignault staked Montreal to a 4-0 first-period lead. 
It ·wasn't enough. Paced by three goals from Steve Larouche, just called up from the AHL, the Senators carried the play for the final two peri­ods. 
With Ottawa goaltender Craig Billington on the bench for an extra attacker, Larouche scored twice in 32 seconds in the dying moments to tie the score. 
Blues 5, 
Maple Leafs 2 
ST. LOUIS 
Ian Laperriere, Esa Tikkanen and Adam Creighton set a Blues record by scoring 49 sec­onds apart in the second peri­od. Greg Gilbert also scored and Laperriere added an empty net goal for the Blues, who won for the ninth time in 10 tries at home and are unbeaten in their last six games overall. 


.... 'i:> 
Jr~~~~icii~~~~ril~tlt ····· 
Classes are to be held at 18• 40, 2S, 47, There is liroi!ed, so register in· ad·var1cel 

"The:~ will be· a me,etin.gl · Tuesday night at 7:00pm at the primarily discuss race teams for vvt:'t:A.t:uuJ Sweatshirts are now on sale. 
He's a great player and he important the system is," Sutter works hard. It was definitely  
··•· >. ))....·..·· .......d. G ~-· an rtJwn ments Will be Taken April 4th and 5th From 9 a.m. -4:30p.m. The Hammes  
Lewis Hall presents Sr. Francis O'Connor speaking about The Role ofWomen in the Church Around the World Tuesday April 4, 8 p.m. Lewis Hall Party Room Light refreshments to follow.  

BRUNO'S N 0 R T H  

On US 31 North of Cleveland 
"On thl! Campus"
273-3890 
Open Manday-Saturday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Tuesday, April 4, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sparky returns Baseball begins with truce 
Associated Press 
DETROIT 

Sparky Anderson will return to manage the Detroit Tigers. ending a suspension started when he refused to handle the replacement players, the club said today. 
Tigers president John McHale said in a written statement Anderson would report Tuesday to Lakeland, Fla., as major leaguers return for their first workouts of the year. The players have been on strike since August. 
'Interim Tigers manager Tom Runnells will return to his job as manager of the Toledo Mud liens, Tigers general manager Joe Klein said. Runnells was given the job this year, but was asked to step up in Anderson's absence. 
"The entire Tiger organiza­tion wishes to thank Tom Runnells for the loyalty, dili­gence and skill he demon­strated in this situation," McHale said. 

Anderson has been on unpaid leave since Feb. 17. when he said he wouldn't manage re­plar.ement players. He returned to his home in Thousand Oaks, Calif., and has been there throughout the replacements' spring training. 
Reportedly, the wasy was paved for Anderson's return when he and McHale talked by phone Saturday. 
When Anderson left Florida, the Tigers did not guarantee that he'd have a job when the strike ended, although McHale called his return likely. 
Spring training will begin of­ficially Wednesday. 
Anderson, scheduled to make more than $1 million this sea­son, said Sunday he thought he still had a job. 
''I'm very, very happy about it," he told WDIV television af­ter today's announcement. 
"After you're out of it for a while, the Peter Principle works with you very strongly. You're out of your element." 
'Io aSpecia{ 'Daugliter and Sister, 
J{appy 21st 
tBirtfufay Ju{ie 
Love, Mom, 'Dac£ and Clirissy 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Baseball players and owners ended their fight with a truce rather than a peace. 
After 234 days, more than $800 million in losses, no World Series and not even a settle­ment. the longest and costliest work stoppage in the history of professional sports finally ended Sunday night. • 
Owners accepted the union's otTer to play without an agree­ment. The season, which had been scheduled to start Sunday night, will begin April 26 and each team will play 144 games, 18 fewer than the usual. Replacement players were sent packing. 
"I don't regard it as a surren­der," acting commissioner Bud Selig said following a 4 1/2­hour owners meeting. "The players were on strike, they made an unconditional otTer to come back, and we accepted that otTer." 
Players didn't make a no­strike pledge and owners didn't make a no-implementation agreement. The union could walk out again late this season if owners again threaten to im­pose a salary cap. 
"Anyone who has gone through this eight-month expe­rience will let it serve as a poignant reminder that we have a responsibility to make sure it will never happen again, certainly in our lifetime," Selig said. 
Far more difficult than get­ting players back on the field may be the job baseball faces of restoring the country's faith in the game. 
Though it has faced seven 

Andrew Young
/<omter U.S. Congressman, Amba.~sador to the UN, and Mayor ofAtlanta 
Co-Chairman, Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games 

Diversity the Key 
How Atlanta Won the Olympics 
Thursday, April6t\ 8:00p.m. Stepan Center 
Admission i.s free. Tickets are available at the LaFortune Box Office and at the door. Sponsored by the Office ofStudent Affairs and the Office of Student Activities. 
This lecture was made possible through a grant from the Lilly Foundation. 
previous work stoppages, this time baseball returns battered and berated by fans who grew weary of what President Clinton described as "just a few hun­dred folks trying to figure out how to divide nearly $2 bil­lion." 
Players may report voluntar­ily starting Wednesday to train­ing camps in Florida and Arizona. although some were expected to start trickling in to­day. The mandatory reporting date is Friday. 
In West Palm Beach, Fla., this morning, outfielder Ryan Klesko was the first Atlanta Brave to show up at training camp, taking an hour of batting practice wearing sweat pants and a T -shirt. 
"It's good to be here, but I'd still like to see an agreement that says we'll play the whole year," Klesko said. ''I'd hate to see this happen again." 
Until a week ago, there had. been speculation owners might lock out players if the union ended the strike without a deal. But the pro-lockout faction, af­ter determining it could not obtain the necessary 21 votes from among the 28 teams, did not even call for a vote. 
"When the clubs heard all the evidence today on what to do and what not to do, the three­quarters became academic," Selig said. 
The strike wiped out the final 52 days and 669 games of the 1994 season and forced the cancellation of the World Series for the first time since 1904. It also wiped out the first 252 games of this season, raising the total of games lost to 921. 
'I think it's a first step," union head Donald Fehr said. "Hopefully it's a big step in set­ting a better mood. One thing that could make me a lot more pleased, of course, is conclud­ing a new long-term agree­ment. 
The sides still must work to­ward a deal to replace the col­lective bargaining agreement that expired on Dec. 31, 1993. Players who walked out last Aug. 12 ended the strike Friday -the 232nd day -after U.S. District Judge Sonia Sotomayor issued an injunction forcing owners to continue the work rules of the expired agreement. 
"The clubs hope the entire 1995 season -including all postseason competition -will be played without interruption or interference," Selig said. 
Clinton, who failed two months ago in a personal effort to end the strike, said: "Today's decision is good news for the game of baseball, its fans and the local economies of the cities where baseball is played. 
"While I am heartened to know this season will start with major league players, there are a number of underlying issues which still need to get re­solved." 
Baseball's eighth work stop­page since 1972 was caused by the owners' demand for a salary cap. Both sides expected to finalize the back-to-work agreement on today. Exhibition games will begin on April 13, and teams may carry expanded rosters of 28 players -three more than the usual limit ­through May 15. 
The sides also have to work out the dates for salary arbitra­tion filing and hearings, which probably will run into the first few weeks of the season. Players, who lost 28 percent of their salary last year. will lose 11 percent this year. 
No date has been determined for the next bargaining session. 
"I assume there will be dis­cussions of when and how in the next few days," Selig said. 
All but forgotten in the rush to return were the replacement players. 
UPCOMING EVENTS 

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 1995 
BARBARA SCHNEIDER 
UNIVERSilY OF CHICAGO 
MEASURING OUTCOMES IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE EDUCATION 
4:15P.M. 
Barbaro L. S<hneider is Senior Social S<ien~st in the OgburrtStouffer Center for the Study of Population and Social Organization at the University of Chkogo. She has published an educo~onol policy, parental involvement in schools and on school choice. Or. S<hneider wos primary designer of the survey ins~umen~ for the Notional Educa­~on Longitudinal Study of 1988. Her reseorch interes~ include school choice and how children formulate ideos about pos~econdory work and educa~on Her 1'11.0. in education is from Northwestern University. 
THE FINAL SPEAKER IN THIS SERIES WILL BE: Anthony Bryk April 10th, 4:15p.m., Room 124, CSC 
----~ ------~-------,-,-,_,....,.-----------~----. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April4, 1995 
• NCAA TOIJRNAMENT 

O'Bannon captures honors 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
Ed O'Bannon just wouldn't go away and his tenaciousness paid off Monday night with a basketball player's dream ­the NCAA championship. 
The UCLA forward, playing with a heavy wrap to protect his left knee, performed like a man possessed against Arkansas, refusing to let a long, hard rehabilitation from a dev­astating knee injury go unre­warded. 
"He tied his career best with 30 points and had 17 rebounds in the Bruins' 89-78 victory. He began the game with a 3-point basket and ended it with a dunk, and the honor of the game's outstanding player. 
It was typical O'Bannon. He took charge of the game and turned it into a personal play­ground, leading the Bruins to their first national champi­onship in 20 years. 
Throughout the NCAA tour­nament, O'Bannon has had a 

look in his eye that made him seem on a mission. He knew this was the last time around and he was determined to make it memorable. 
"This is the last time I'll ever put on a UCLA uniform," he said before the championship game. "It's been a long time since I stepped on the UCLA campus and I've gone as far as I could. I couldn't be happier." 
O'Bannon began his college career at UNLV but left there almost immediately aft~r arriv­ing when the _program got in trouble with the NCAA. In August 1990, he signed a grant-in-aid with UCLA, where his father played wide receiver on the football team in 1971. Two months later, he tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee during a pickup game. He underwent five hours of surgery on Oct. 18, 1990 and it seemed like a promising bas­ketball career was over. 
Not to O'Bannon, though. 
He missed the 1990-91 sea-son as he set about the busi­ness of rehabilitation, a long, brutal battle back. Coach Jim Harrick remembers watching him make small progress day by day, week by week, month by month. Slowly, the mobility and strength returned. He was a part-time performer off the bench in 1991-92 but he's been a starter ever since and enjoyed his best season, _averaging 20.3 points alld 8.1 rebounds. 

Along the way, he was joined by his brother, Charles, on UCLA's frontline. "I wanted to play with my brother, but I mainly wanted to play with a great player," O'Bannon said. "We recruited him not because he was my brother, but because he is a great player. 
"He beat me one time when we were younger, but I never let it happen again." 
The rest of the team looks to O'Bannon for leadership. His teammates know what he went through to ressurrect his career and respect him for that dedi­cation. He was named Player of the Year by the U.S. Basketball Writers Association and was a finalist for the John Wooden Award, named for the leg­endary UCLA coach. 
. NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR 


EAST 
Semifinals Semifinals Seattle Seattle April1 April1 
(2) Arkansas 75 (4) Okla. St. 61 
WEST
,~QUTHEAST 
(2) N. Carolina 68 

(1) UCLA 74 ( ) seed Bold numbers-score 
AP 

Resume Workshop 
It's never too early! 
WHEN: Wednesday, April 5th 10:00 a.m. 
WHERE: Saint Mary's College Madeleva Hall Student Lounge 
*All are invited and bring your friends!!! STUDEBAGELS SERVED 
Wooden witnesses UCLA's latest tournament win 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
Like a monarch saluting the masses, John Wooden waved to the legions of fans and coaches who approached him at Monday night's NCAA champi­onship game to get a glimpse of the master. 
Wooden, who coached UCLA to 10 titles before retiring 20 years ago, had resisted coming back to the Final Four since his wife Nell died in 1985. A hardy yet sentimental man of 84, Wooden had been especially leery about returning to the ti­tle game at Seattle, the site of his last Final Four visit with his wife. 
But the prospect of seeing UCLA play Arkansas for the championship lured Wooden back. 
"When UCLA got into the championship game, I defi­nitely decided I would come," Wooden said before watching the Bruins beat the Razorbacks 89-78. 
"I told myself I wouldn't come unless they got to the final. I haven't been to the Final Four since it was in Indianapolis (in 1991), and that was the only one I've been to without my wife." 
Wooden didn't speak to the Bruins before the game, as some of them had hoped he would. 
"No, I didn't think that would be appropriate," he said. "I would rather stay in the back­ground and not take anything away from the team. They have had a tremendous season, and I didn't want to take any atten­tion from them." 
Wooden looked dapper as al­ways in a white shirt with bur­gundy stripes, a burgundy vest, navy blue jacket and paisley tie. He seemed spry and sharp enough to stride onto the court with a program rolled in hand and coach again. 
He said he's spoken often with UCLA coach Jim Harrick, including several times during the tournament, and knew he was worried about Tyus Edney's sprained right wrist. Edney started against Arkansas, but obviously was hampered by his injury and played just a few minutes be­fore leaving the game. 
"I think he is more concerned with (Edney's) health than any­thing else," Wooden said. 

---~-----------------­
Tuesday, April 4, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Bruins gain 11th NCAA title without Edney 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

With its starting point guard on the bench and its greatest coaeh in the stands, UCLA won its first national championship in 20 years and kept Arkansas from joining the select list of repeaters. 
The top-ranked Bruins won their record 11th NCAA title Monday night with an 89-78 vietory that was even more impressive considering senior Tyus Edney was limited to 2 1/2 minutes because of a sprained right wrist. 
Ed O'Bannon stepped up as he was supposed to, but so did freshman Toby Bailey and Cameron Dollar, Edney's replacement, and it all meant the first title for the school since 1975, when John Wooden, who sat quietly in the stands of the Kingdome, won the last of 10 in a 12-year span. 
''I'm very proud," Wooden said. "To be honest, I didn't think they could win it without Edney. He makes that team run. But Bailey and Dollar 
CASTING & ANGLING 
COURSE Four Sessions Tuesday 6:00-7:30 PM Open to Students & Staff $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS UATES 
APRIL 4 APRIL 11 APRIL 18 APRIL 25 

Classes Held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
Opportunity to Purchase Fishing Gear at Discounted Rates FREE CAP TO ALL WHO REGISTER 
played wonderfully. Dollar didn't score many points, but his defense was superb." 
As UCLA received the cham­pionship trophy, O'Bannon, who was voted the outstanding player in the tournament, turned to the Bruins' fans in the stands, pointed at Edney and shouted: "This is the real MVP right here. He got us here." 
The UCLA fans then started chanting, "Tyus! Tyus! Tyus!" 
For Arkansas, it was the end of a tournament run of close finishes and it ended one game short of becoming the second repeat champion since Wooden's Bruins won seven in a row, ending in 1973. 
The Razorbacks had come to rely on its great defense and great player, Corliss Williamson, in the second half, but neither was there against UCLA. 
O'Bannon scored 30 points and had 17 rebounds in a game that certified his All-America credentials. Bailey, who had struggled to a 1-for-2, two­point outing in the semifinals, finished with 26 points and nine rebounds. And Dollar, the back­up point guard who played in the shadow of the lightning quick Edney, came up with eight assists. 
"I owe a lot to Tyus," Dollar said. "The two years we've been together, he taught me a lot, and I was able to apply it tonight. 
Edney had been UCLA's sparkplug during the tourna­ment and beat Missouri in the second round with a length-of­the-court drive and basket in the final seconds. 

"I think he had the best tour­nament of any player of the 64 teams up until tonight," UCLA coach Jim Harrick said of Edney. "But what a gutty per­formance by the rest of the guys. They sucked it up and played hard." 
"It was a bad feeling knowing I couldn't play, but I had confi­dence in my guys," Edney said. "They've played without me before. I knew they could do it. 
Williamson, who was 9-for-12 in the second half of the semifi­nal win over North Carolina, finished 3-for-16 from the field against the Bruins, including a 1-for-10 effort in the second half. Williamson was stymied by 7 -foot UCLA center George Zidek. • 
"I just played as tough as I could," said Zidek, who is from Prague in the Czech Republic. "I tried to move my feet. I did it, but I don't know how I did it, but I shut him down." 
Instead of the Razorbacks swarming and defending as they had all tournament in the latter stages of the game, it was the Bruins who managed to hold Arkansas without a field goal for a 4:47 stretch that ended with Williamson's first basket of the second half with 
2:25 to play. 
That made it 77-68 and the Razorbacks were out of the last-minute miracles they had managed in the early rounds. 
The Bruins built a 65-53 lead with 11:27 left on a rebound basket by Bailey. Arkansas managed to get within 67-64 on a free throw by Williamson with 
5:22 left, but O'Bannon hit a jump hook, Bailey scored on yet another rebound and O'Bannon and Dollar each made two free throws and Bailey scored again and the lead was again 12 with 
3:13 left. 
Clint McDaniel led Arkansas with 16 points, while Willamson had 12 and Scotty Thurman, the hero of last year's title win over Duke with a last-minute 3­pointer, had five points on 2­for-9 shooting. 
UCLA extended its lead in the title run, with Kentucky and Indiana second on the list with five each. The Bruins are 11-1 in championship games and this was their first without Wooden in front of the bench, rolled-up program in hand. 
Arkansas was trying to join Duke in 1991 and 1992 as the only repeat champions since UCLA's streak ended. There have been five other repeaters, Oklahoma State in 1945-46, Kentucky in 1948-49, San Francisco in 1955-56, Cincinnati in 1961-62 and UCLA in 1964-65. 
The victory was the 19th straight for UCLA, while the Razorbacks closed the season by winning 15 of 17. 
Edney started the game but played just 2:37 and never returned. 

Andrew Young 
Will autograph copies ofhis new book: 
AWay Out ofNoWay 
Thursday, April 6th 4:30-5:00p.m. 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
"on the campus" 

I 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, J¥pril 4, 1995 
• WmviEN's NCAA BASKH~tit.t • GOlF 
Lobo headed to Europe Irish gain experience at UK 
By CHUCK SCHOFFNER petition for the 12 spots on the By JIM BELDEN help us get better. I was happy individually.
Associated Press team will be stiff. She'll be go­Sports Writer with my finish (eleventh), but I "The field was really strong.
ing against former players of will be looking for improvement We finished tenth out of fifteen, MINNEAPOLIS the year like Sheryl Swoopes 
The Irish golf teams hit the 

for the rest of the season," as as
Rebecca Lobo can see her fu­and Lisa Leslie, who already which is not well we 
links over the weekend and

ture and needs few words to Donohoe said. expected, but this was only our
have international experience. 
arrived back in South Bend

describe it. second tournament and we
If Lobo doesn't make the 
with some valuable experience

There's no pro draft awaiting team, Europe will beckon. The men were challenged by hope to improve for our next 
under their belts. 

the national player .>()f the year She'll be gone then but cer­a Pete Dye course and had the three tournaments," Tracy
Notre Dame's men's golf team 

in women's basketball. The tainly not forgotten at opportunity to win after taking Melby said. finished seventh in the Johnny
outstanding player in the Final Connecticut, where she and the lead following the second 
Owens Invitational, which was

Four and leader of round. Tracy's finish was even more
her team went far went 
hosted by the University of
Connecticut's national champi­beyond anything that had been "This course is probably the impressive when one considers onship team won't be negotiat­Kentucky. The Irish were in the best we will be able to play all that she is only a freshman.
expected. 

lead after the first two rounds year. It was a great challenge "I am happy with my finishing a multimillion dollar con­Connecticut won its first 
but they slipped in the third

tract. for all of us. We were in a posi­because I am only a freshman,
NCAA title with a 70-64 victory 
She may get an endorsement and finished seventh overall. tion to win, and I think that is but I am looking to only get bet­
over Tennessee on Sunday and 
Individually, Brian Donohoe led 

or two, but it won't make her something we have to get used ter. Hopefully the experience I
became the first Division I 
wealthy. the men with an eleventh place to before we start winning," gain will help me in the future," 
team-men's or women's­
So just where is she headed? finish shooting a three round Donohoe said. Melby said. 
to go 35-0. Lobo was the main 226 (+10). 
The women finished in a tie The men's and women's ·
"Graduation in May and reason it happened, but it 
Europe in August," she "The competition we faced for eleventh place at the teams both had productive
wasn't what coach Geno 
was tremendous. Facing pow­

Indiana Invitational. Freshman weekends but both teams arereplied. Auriemma was thinking when 
Lobo is likely to experience she join~d the team four years erhouses such as Louisville, Tracy Melby was the top fin­looking forwaid to only getting 
what has happened to the ago. Indiana, and Kentucky can only isher as she placed nineteenth better as the season continues. players of the year who pre­'·'I told my staff when we ceded her. One· moment their 
signed her aqd Pam Webber; I 
Use Observer Classifieds
the darlings of the hardwood. just walked in and said for the Then -poof-they vanish. next four years, we're going to 
Europe is the only place U.S. be all right," Auriemma said. ~--------------------------~ women can play serious pro "I didn't want to put anything basketball. Half a world away, on that. I just said we're going 1 
audiences here may never see to be all right. them again. "I knew they would take 
Student Savings i 
The coming year, however, care of everything they needed offers one additional opportu­to take care of, but I never nity for a lucky dozen. The I
envisioned that it would be like United States is putting to­this." 
gether a national women's Auriemma's challenge now is 
Even "Ben" : 
team a full year ahead of the to keep Connecticut contending 
Olympics and those players for national titles without Iwill be paid, probably around Lobo, to keep the Huskies in $50,000. 
the hunt year after year like Lobo is likely to be invited to Stanford and Tennessee, the 
WouldBe : 
the tryouts next month in programs he's trying to emu­Colorado Springs, but the com-I
late. 

Proud Of!: 
I 

Mail Boxes Etc. Martin's Ironwood Plaza 9a.m.-7p.m. Mon.-Fri. 10a.m.-6p.m. Sat. 
L ________1 ~19~77-~--­
Save Four : Save Twenty : Save Two Hundred Pennies 
I Pennies I Pennies 
Per Copy Per Page Per Application Make your copies I Your resume typset I Graduate School and for only 6 cents and printed, with25 job applications sent 
11 
1 

1
each-with this copies for only $20 -guaranteed 
coupon. A I with this coupon. A I overnight for two regular 10 cent I regular $25 value. I dollars offthe regular value. I I price -with this coupon. 
b(rugood IUitil JUM 15, 1995. I Offo-good ulltil JUM 15, 1995. I Offo-good lUItil JuM 15, 1995. 
Mail Boxes Etc. I Mail Boxes Etc. I Mail Boxes Etc. L _.!_8!.!:_5 S.R. 23, So Bend j_ _ 18115 S.R. 23, So. Bend j_ _ _!_8115 S.R. 23, So. Bend_ _j 
SOFTBALL 
SOFTBALL 
SOFTBALL 
SOFTBALL 

···1······ 
LL

JJIIIS ..$.•1J;wt& SUN ' 
1.:00 p.m1~~bleheade;; 

1 


Tuesday, April 4, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 


• OF INTEREST The Class of '97 will be celebrating Easter with the children of St. Margaret's tomorrow from 11:45am -2:00pm. Decorating eggs and an egg hunt are among the activities planned. Transportation will leave from Main Circle at 11:45am and 12:45pm. More volunteers are needed_ Call Brian x1058 or Sean x4008 for more infor­mation. Seniors, what next? Maybe Colorado! You can stop worrying about next year, Colorado Vincentian Volunteers{CW) in Denver, has openings for August of '95. CW is looking for men and women interested in a year of volunteer service among the poor and marginal­ized. CW is in it's inaugural year, offering placement<> in inner city schools, social services, health care, home­less services. food banks. literacy programs. women's issues, and more. You receive transportation to Denver, room and board, health insurance, a stipend, local transportation, retreats, and a tremendous opportunity to serve others. Today from 2:30pm-5:00pm at the Center for Social Concerns. Call Bill Jaster at 1·800-413­8778 for more info. A Resume Expert Plus Jab, .designed to assist stu­dents with mastering the resume software, will be offered tonight, 6:30pm -8:00pm in 228 DeBartolo. It is intended for Arts and Letters majors. but all are invited. ,Advanced sign-ups are required. Call Olivia Williams at 1x5200.  
•MENU Notre Dame NORTH • SOUTH Shrimp Spaghetti French Onion Soup Baked Orange Roughy Bread Stuffing Monster Cookies Applie Pie Saint Ma,.ris College Chicken and Dumplings Sauteed Salmon Wild Rice  
Recycle The Observer.  

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
WE DoN1 VAL\lE CRP-.FISMt>..~IP t>-l'll'i MCJR't. ! t>-l.l.. 't\'t. VAL\l't. I~ 
R\Jn\L'tS'> EI=F\C\EtK't 1\t-\D 
I SA'\ Wt. DEN'i 0\JR OWN \\\Jtl\1,1-4 I"N TI-\I>.T WI>..'I.' 
DILBERT 
DOGBE.RT THE CONSULTANT ~ 
r-----------------------4u 
YOUR BEST BET IS TO RELOCATE THE COMPANY TO RUS~IA. 
CROSSWORD 

BILL WATTERSON 
0 
0 
0 
SCOTT ADAMS 

~~==========~-------,6~----------------------­YOU CAN 1-\IRE. ~ 
ENGINEERS FOR 
TWO CENTS A YEAR' 

IS IT DIFFICULT 
TO WEED OUT THE DUI"\B ONES? 
55 Pre­Indianapolis team 
61 Furnish 62 Artful 63 Manhandle 65American 
Kennel Club rejects 66 Sister and wife of Osiris 67 New York canal 68 Mississippi tributary 69Mammilla 70 Cell: Prefix 
DOWN 
1 Bill 2 Trend-setting, 
perhaps 3Waned 49 
5 This ans., e.g. 6 Kind of bed 7 Colder 


a Revolutionary 27 Crude container Emiliano 29 Brief letters? 

9 Pouches 10 Key of Mozart's 30 Basic 

Symph. No. 29 31 Forte 11 Actress Turner 32 Mexican moola 12 The gamut 34 Happy 13 Number after associate 
nueve 

36 Opposite SSE 21 Olive that's very 
38 I, to Claudiusthin 
40Mauna-­
22TVfamily, 1952-66 41 Reading prolbem?
25 Jurassic Park compound 47 Loss's partner 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. 

• 
., 

ACROSS 
1 "Lights out" tune s U.S. terr. until 1912 9 Dieter's lunch 14 Opposite of sans 15 ·· ·-Raton 16 Noted violinmaker 17 Chaucer's Wife of-­18 Radar screen image 
19 Kayak 
20 Pre-Utah team 
23 Breakfast-in­bed item 
24 Comic Johnson 
25 Put on years 
26 Hushed 28 Priest's robe 30 Clairvoyance 33Aicohol 
awareness org. 35 Writer Fleming 37 Slender 39 Pre-Los 
Angeles team 42 Elicited 43 Anglo-Saxon 
letter 44 "Typee" sequel 45 Like Gen. 
Powell 46 Dadaist Hans 48 Ukr. or Russ., 
once 50 Some dash widths 51 Eurasia's -­Mountains 53 King­
49 Orson Welles studio 52 Stood up 54 Early Mexican 55 The Ronettes' "-Baby" 56 Shade of blue 57 Jump for Oksana Baiul 
58 One of the Jackson 5 59--facto 60 Skin abnormality 
64Popewho excommuni­cated Martin Luther 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


IIH Team Tennis I 
• 
Each hall enters 2 singles and 2 doubles teams. 

• 
Individuals mfy .Rl~y o.::JO......~........o;7 


doubles j:;;;~th~ 
1 


SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, April4,1995 
• BASEBALl 
Smoking Irish bats look to overcome cold 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
Mother Nature might conspire to deny the Notre Dame (15-10) baseball team a chance to avenge an earlier loss when Indiana State arrives at Frank Eck Stadium for a 4 p.m. game today. 
The Sycamores beat the Irish 12-8 when the teams met March 
Amhrein 21 in Terre Haute. 
But with the forecast calling for highs in the 30s and snow flurries, head coach Paul Mainieri and his squad will be watching the skies with trepidation. 
"I just hope we can play," Mainieri says. "We'll be out there in our long­johns." 
Hopefully, the weather won't chill the hot Notre Dame bats. 

In a four-game weekend series against MCC rival Butler, the Irish exploded for 46 runs and 54 hits. 
"I thought we played great," Mainieri said after the games. "We were ready, to go and excited to be playing." 
One of the hottest players for Notre Dame of late has been sophomore third baseman Mike Amrhein. 
Amrhein entered last week batting . 321, but a 13-26 performance upped his average to .365, second among everyday players. He hit three doubles, two triples and drove in 11 runs to bring his RBI total to 24, also second on the squad. 
"I just unleashed at the plate for the first time this season," Amrhein said of his performance. "I had been tentative earlier, but I was aggressive and things just worked." 
Amrhein credits his teammates for 
getting in scoring position ahead of him. A key catalyst for Notre Dame has been senior captain Craig DeSensi. Since moving to the lead-off spot, the first baseman is batting .448 with two homers and 16 runs scored. 
Junior Ryan Topham continues to pro­vide much of the offensive fire power. Topham leads the team in average (.376), RBI (39), home runs (eight) and doubles (11). He and Amrhein lead the team in hits with 35 . 
Topham drove in five runs Saturday against Butler, despite striking out six times in the doubleheader. Sunday Topham went 4-8 with two homers, six RBI and no strike outs. 
Notre Dame will need a solid start from sophomore Darin Schmalz. 
"Indiana State is a fine club with the same record as us. They are a good hit­ting team," Mainieri says. "We're going to need a great outing by Darin." 
Schmalz's record is 3-3, but his 2.75 ERA is the second lowest among starters and he is tied for the most strikeouts with freshman Christian Parker. 
The Sycamores sport a .330 team batting average and have two everyday players batting above .400. Ric Johnson leads the team with a .440 mark, and Jeff Leaman is right behind at .406. 
It was Leaman who torched the Irish in their last meeting, with a grand slam in the second inning to drive starter Craig Allen out of the game. Leaman was 3-5 on the day and Johnson was 4­6. 
Indiana State is coming off a week­end series with Southwest Missouri State. An 8-6 win on Sunday salvaged the five-game set, as the Sycamores dropped the first four games. 
Weather permitting, the Irish will host Chicago State on Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
• SAINT MARY'S TENNIS 
Belles seek 
Division I victory 
By ANGELA OLSEN Sports Writer 
After defeating Division 1 Valparaiso, whose record was 6-3 in the fall. the Belles are looking for a repeat perfor­mance today. The Belles enter the match against Valpo with a 5-7 record. 
The team is currently mak­ing changes in their lineup due to the loss of their second sin­gles and first doubles player. 
."We're going to have to pull our team together to pull out a victory," said the Belles' coach Katie Cromer. 
"It wasn't an easy 6-3 victory in the fall. It was closer than the score indicated." 
Senior Nancy Waibel also 
• 
feels that the Belles need to work together to pull off a win. 
"As a team we need to step up our games, play consistent­ly, and do our best," Waibel said. 
Sophomore and number one singles player Kate Kozacik is anticipating another tough match against Valpo senior Marie Lutz. 
"We have very similar style games." said Kozacik. 
Kozacik defeated Lutz 7-5, 6­4 in the fall. Today, however, she seeks to enter the match with a lot more confidence. 
·The Belles kick off their dual meet at the tennis courts next to Angela Athletic Facility at 
3:00 today. In the event of rain. however, all matches will be moved inside the Facility. 

Tuesday, April4 

ND Baseball vs. Indiana State 4p.m. Eck Stadium 
ND Softball at Michigan State 2p.m. SMC Tennis vs. Valparaiso 3 p.m. 


Pun, Irish sweep NU Wildcats 
ByB.J. HOOD Sports Writer 
With Notre Dame leading 6-0 against Northwestern on Sunday, one might think the final match at number three singles wasn't important. It was, however, important to Jason Pun. 
Alex Witt of Northwestern won the first set, and Pun bat­tled to win the second set 7-6 after surviving a match point. Witt raced out to a 5-1 third set advantage, and was seemingly moments from a victory. 
But Pun refused to give up. Pun would rally to win six straight games to win the set and the match. 
"f was getting some more balls in play .and putting more pressure on his serve," Pun said in reference to the come­back. "We were very pleased with the victory. Last year they beat us, and this year they had the same basic players." 
The match was important for the Irish, who have two region­al matches left. Coach Bob Bayliss felt the Irish needed to win at least two of the last three matches to make the NCAA regionals. The final two matches are against Michigan and Ball State. 
Against Northwestern, every-The Observer/ Eric Ruethling one did their part. Ryan Simme Junior Jason Pun battled back from match point to overcome Northwestern's Alex Witt at number three sin­
defeated Carl Von Schantz at gles. The Irish won the match with a 7-0 sweep. 
number one, Mike Sprouse beat Jeff Giraldo at number two, at number four John J. O'Brien topped Wyeth Goodenough, Jakub Pietrowski was victori­ous at number five over Ry Tarpley, and Steve Flanigan defeated Rafael Rizo-Patron at 
Wednesday, April 5 
ND Baseball vs. Chicago State ?p.m. ND Women's Tennis ar Wisconsin 2:30p.m. SMC Softball vs. Hope College 3:30p.m. 
Martin Stigh 8-0, Flanigan and Pietrowski beat Giraldo and Witt 8-4, and the tandem of Simme and O'Brien was victo­rious over Goodenough and Rizo-Patron, 8-5. 
Pun feels the team is playing 

Thursday, April 6 
ND Baseball at Bowling Green 5p.m. ND Women's Tennis at Norrhwesrern 3p.m. SMC Tennis vs. Hope College 3p.m. 
much better now following a few decisive victories. His hope for the fifteenth ranked and 12­7 Irish is to land a spot in the regional playoff. If the Irish continue to improve as they have, that hope should be real­ized. 
Friday, April 7 
ND Baseball vs. Wisconsin­Milwaukee 5p.m. ND Track at The Dogwood Invitational 
number six. These matches were all decided in straight sets. 
The Irish played well in dou­bles. as has been the custom in recent weeks. Sprouse and Pun defeated Von Schantz and 








