
Friday, February 17, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 89 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer I Scott Mendenhall 
Steve Smith has been preparing for his Jeopardy appearance by watching the game show and reading Trivial Pursuit cards. He will be in Los Angeles to tape the show on March 7-8. 
Fair promotes women's health 
By CHRISTINA TECSON News Writer 
The Women's Health Fair at Saint Mary's LeMans Hall yes­terday proved to be a success as women gathered to pick up pamphlets and brochures and ask questions of those repre­sented to promote the emo­tional, social, and physical well­being of women. 
The fair was open to all women in the community and many took advantage of the op­portunity sponsored by the Stu­dent League for Women's Col­leges (SLWC) and attended by twenty-three local businesses, hospitals, and organizations. 
"We ordered food for 300 and that was gone after the first hour," said Katie Clancy, SLWC president. 

"It was better than what we could have hoped for," she said of the estimated 500 people who attended. "We were really pleased. All the businesses were really happy with the turnout." 
Attendance included women from Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, the South Bend area, and also a number of high school students. 
"We were really happy about the teenagers because it ex­posed them to women's issues at an early age," said Clancy. 
Saint Mary's students who at­tended were pleased with the organizations who participated and the information available. Some of the more popular at­tractions, according to Clancy; were the massages, the herbal­ist who gave out health food samples, and the self-defense demonstration. 
"I really liked the chance to try out different products by Bath & Body Works," said freshman Karey Gilmore. "I thought there was a lot of in­formation offered at the fair on topics important to women's lives, like breast examinations, self-defense, and sexually transmitted diseases." 
Both the organizations who' participated and the students who attended were pleased with the outcome. 
"The different organizations that· came were very helpful and glad to be there. It was a pleasant atmosphere," said se­nior Katie Gisch. 

This ... is Jeopardy! 
Senior Stephen Smith is facing one of the toughest tests ofhis college career-an appearance on one of TVs most popular game shows 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Assistant News Editor 
Given the chance to bet on a Daily Double, Stephen Smith will wager conservatively. But don't tell his competitors that. 
Although Smith says he is not preparing for his appear­ance in the 1995 Jeopardy Col­lege Championship, a strategy appears to be brewing in the mind of this Notre Dame se­nior. 
A government and eco­
nomics major, Smith is among 15 collegiate undergraduates nationwide who will partici­pate in the television game show's annual tournament. 
After responding to an advertised search for college contestants that was announced at the end of one of the televised programs, Smith tried out for the show on November 5 in Milwaukee . The tryout Smith attended was one of four in a search for 
see JEOPARDY I page 4 
The Observer I Brandon Candura 

Checking the merchandise 
Students browse through the t-shirts and books sold at the Sophomore Literary Festival yesterday. 
Friday, February 17 
1:00 ~.m.· The Hospitality Room is open for your convenience in the Sarin Room 
7:00 p.m. on the first floor of La Fortune. 

7:00p.m. Student Affairs sponsors the variety show, "Black Kofee Ballroom. 
JPW's opening event. During the 
from various lJ.S. cities. There dancing shoes. Live entertainment the Gara. 
the programs and professors of your son's 
12:30 p.m.· for off-campus Juniors will 2:30p.m. 
1:00 p.m. & 2:30p.m. 
2:00p.m.· La Fortune Ballroom. 4:00p.m. 
2:30p.m. 
2:30p.m.· 
4:30p.m. The International Studies Program of La Fortune. 

5:30p.m.· Mass/Presidential Dinner: The President 
!O:OOp.m. Malloy, C.S.C., will preside at our celebration Dome of the JACC, followed by dinner in the Club and aspeech by Lou Holtz. 

Sunday, February 20 
9:30a.m.· By The Dawn's Early Light Brunch: The closing brunch held in the JACC. 
12:00 p.m. Lou Holtz is the featured speaker. 

The Observer/ Robert Bollman, Jr. 

Gordon: Arafat improving image 
By BRIAN MOLINARO 
News Writer 

Palestinian leader Yassir Arafat must continue his moves toward becoming a respected statesman in order for his peace proposals to be effective in the Middle East, Professor Haim Gordon from Ben-Gurion University in Israel said in a lecture yesterday at the Hes­burgh Center 
In past years, Arafat has been a symbol of radicalism and has always been associated with such radical and anarchistic world leaders as Saddam Hus­sein. 
However, in recent years Arafat has had to change his radical ways, taking instead the form of a statesman. 
"This is probably the most dif­ficult challenge he has ever has to face. The only man who has ever successfully accomplished such a feat was Nelson Mandela who had the aid of years in prison to think things through," Gordon said. 
Arafat has made several steps towards such a change. Prob­ably one of the most significant gestures he has made was when "he defied the skeptics and settled down in the Gaza Strip" in the heartland of the Palestinian world. Normally Yassir Arafat flies all over the world and never stays in any single place long enough to even get settled in a hotel. 
"He knows he is the symbol for the Palestinians" suggested Gordon. "He has always been seen as a thug, and it is hard to wean this attitude, but his set­tlement is a major gesture to the people." 
In his quest to become a statesman, Arafat faces two main oppositions: the Hamas in Gaza -a radical group which is much like the Arafat of years past -and the Isreali leaders who Arafat is trying to make peace with. 
Arafat once relied on military methods to solve problems, but now that he is trying to be civi­lized about his peace talks, he must worry about the Hamas radicals, according to Gordon. 
"He is constantly surrounded by guards," Gordon said, "because there is a constant threat of a terrorist act anytime he is in the open." 
Just recently, Gordon invited Arafat and other Israeli leaders to visit Ben-Gurion University, and almost immediately after he extended his invitation to Arafat, threats of violence were made public. 
If the Hamas -who are sup­ported by less than 15% of the Palestinians -were Arafat's only opposition, Arafat's posi­tion would be extremely strong, according to Gordon. 
"Arafat would win [the elec­tion] by 60 to 70 percent," he said. 
However, the Israeli govern­ment poses a bigger threat to Arafat. The biggest problem, according to Gordon, is the fact that Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's indecision on a number of requests proposed by Arafat has hurt Arafat's Peace Wager platform. 
"Rabin does not know how to make decisions," Gordon said. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~· 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Now's the time for thanks 
I approached the writ­ing of this column with a bit of mild trepidation. In the past, my views in this column have been labeled extremist, reactionary and (heaven-forbid) anti­Cleveland, among other things. I, however, prefer to fashion myself as an old-time sentimentalist. 
With Valentine's Day just past and Parents Weekend now upon us, this column seems well-suited to take up the sentimentalist tack which I profess to espouse. 
As it is Parents Weekend the cliche trap would be to wax endlessly about the merits of our parents and all they have done for us. But I won't insult your intelligence by going into explicit detail on this notion. I believe you already know what your parents have done for you and how much you have benefit­ed by having them in your life. It is something that really cannot be put into words. 
What often goes unsaid is "thank you" to the 
people that have given so much. All of us 
would not be here-biologically speaking, of 
course-if it were not for our parents. Most of 
us would not be what we are today without 
our parents. 
Parenting has often been called the most 
thankless job and I am sure most parents here 
this weekend would attest to that fact. 
However most parents would also tell you that 
they don't want to be thanked. Seeing their 
children happy is enough. 
Parents are the true martyrs of life. They 
sacrifice so much for the benefit of their chil­
dren. They often place the needs of their chil­
dren above their own. They give to us, their 
children, what we all are looking for and need 
out of life-and that is unconditional love and 
support from those who really care about us. 
When we find the right partner in life, this 
will be the litmus test. Until then we have our 
parents who, for many of us, are a source for 
this love and support. 
The cynic at this point would spout some 
snide comment about, "If you want uncondi­
tionallove, get a dog." But the philosophers 
and sentimentalists among us know that a dog 
can only provide so much. There are intangi­
bles in a human relationship which pets are 
simply not capable of providing. All of us who 
have lost a pet know that to be a trying expe­
rience, imagine what it is like for those among 
us who have lost a parent. 
Which brings me back to Parents Weekend. 
This weekend is our chance to tell our parents 
all the things we may have kept inside until 
now. We should not pass up this opportunity 
being provided for us. For those of us who 
are able to spend this weekend with our par­
ents, perhaps it would be a good time to let 
them know how thankful we are for all they 
have done for us. I am lucky to have both 
parents with me this weekend. 
For those who have lost a parent, this week­
end provides an opportunity to remember that 
person and show them the appreciation for all 
that he or she had done. 
I imagine the Grotto will be well lit this 
weekend, in remembrance of past parents. 
Let not that light simply be a remembrance, 
but a way to give thanks. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TmlAY's STAFF 
News Production Amy Schmidt David Diaz Brad Prendergast Michelle Marcotte Susan Marx Sports Andy Cabiness Accent Tom Johannesen 
Lab Tech 
Graphics 
MikeSchaf 
Robert Bollman 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday chrough Friday except during exam and v3cation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Friday, February 17, 1995 
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Four people killed as tornado hits Alabama towns 
Pink insulation was left hanging from trees.
ARAB, Ala. 

A roof blew off a section of an apartment
A pre-dawn tornado ripped across complex in Arab, but authorities who
north Alabama today, killing at least four searched the rubble found no injured peo­
people and injuring more than 100, 
ple there. Robert Reynolds of the Arab Fireauthorities said. 
Department said there were other happyThe dead, all in Arab, included a young surprises amid the destruction. 
child, Marshall County Coroner Dempsey "We found a 1-year-old baby under twoHibbs said. 
trailers," he said. "He was sitting there,At least one resident reported hearing not making a sound." 
no warning siren before the storm hit 
The storm lifted a wooden A-frame home shortly after 5 a.m. Less than an hour from its cement foundation and carried itbefore that, lightning struck the office of about 40 feet before dropping it -with the the National Weather Service in nearby residents still in their bed. Both Ricky andHuntsville, forcing its evacuation. But a Dianne Fortenberry escaped serious harm. 
warning was issued shortly before the 
"They bad to dig us out," she said,storm hit by the service's office in 
standing atop the splintered wreckage andBirmingham. 

Karen Berry of Arab said "this roar woke me up," trees were flying through the air and the power went out. 
"Normally they give us a siren warning, but they didn't this morning," she said. "There was nothing." 
Officials at Guntersville-Arab Medical Center said 66 people were treated, with 13 admitted and four trans­ferred to Huntsville for additional care. They said they knew of 40 other people taken to two other hospitals. 
Farm buildings collapsed, metal buildings peeled open, trailers and homes were torn apart and toys and furni­ture were strewn amid the rubble in the torando's wake. 
APIWm. J. Castello pointing to the mattress where they had been sleeping. As she spoke, a little neighbor girl sat in a nearby car and cried. 
Reynolds said the dead were the child of 5 or 6 killed in a house, a man about 50 killed in a house, an elderly woman killed in a house, and a man in his 30s killed in a trailer. 
In addition to the four tornado deaths, a fifth person died in a traffic accident that may have been caused by rain-slicked roads, authorities said. 
Arab (pronounced A Y rab) is 30 miles south of Huntsville and has a population of about 6,300. 
For Clinton, politics was 'only choice' 
WASHINGTON 
After losing his re-election bid for Arkansas governor in 1980 Bill Clinton made clear that the currents of his drive for political success ran so strong and deep that for him there was no other choice. Why politics? a student asked the defeated candidate. "It's the only track I've ever wanted to run on," Clinton replied. The story is 

told in the newly issued "First in His Clinton Class, a Biography of Bill Clinton," by David Maraniss, a Washington Post reporter who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1992 for reporting on Clinton's life The author, quoting friends from Clinton's Oxford days, concludes there was one substance Clinton really never did have an appetite for -marijuana. Clinton was ridiculed in his 1992 presidential campaign for saying he tried the stuff but "never inhaled." "We spent enormous amounts of time trying to teach him to inhale; He absolutely could not inhale," the author quotes a Clinton friend as saying. 
Harvard grad embezzles cancer funds 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
A Harvard University graduate was sentenced Thursday to a year in state prison and ordered to pay back the nearly $120,000 he stole from cancer patients to finance his yuppie lifestyle. Charles Lee, 23, of Tenafly, N.J., pleaded guilty to writing 83 checks from an account for The Jimmy Fund, the fund-raising arm of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, while he was a junior in 1991-1992. Lee, who graduated in 1993 with a degree in biology, admitted using the money intended for research and patient care for vacations, meals, stereo equipment and clothes from the upscale Saks Fifth Avenue, Barneys and Eddie Bauer stores. "Through pure greed, he took $100,000 in research funds from children with cancer," said Jill Reilly, spokeswoman for the Middlesex District Attorney's office. 

Oldest woman celebrates 120th 
PARIS 
"God must have forgotten me," Jeanne Calment is fond of saying. The world's oldest living person is preparing to celebrate her 120th birthday on Tuesday. "I've had a beautiful life," she said in an interview pub­lished Thursday in the newspaper Le Figaro. "With good health, one is happy." Mrs. Calment, born Feb. 21, 1875, in the southwestern town of Aries, where she still lives, has outlasted her husband and her brother. Her daugh­ter and grandson also are dead, and she has no direct descendants. The Guinness Book of Records says Mrs. Calment is the oldest living person whose date of birth can be reliably authenticated. She became the doyenne in 1991 with the death of a 116-year-old American, Carry White. Mrs. Calment says she has been forced to give up her two cigarettes a day and her single glass of port before meals. But she still munches on chocolate, her passion, and sleeps "like a baby." Aries is planning a birthday party for Mrs. Calment. She says she will wear a white dress, with small touches of black. 
Comatose son awakens; Mom rejoices 
GREENBRAE. Calif. 
Julie Christine thought she was losing her son when he slipped into a coma after being hit by a car two weeks ago. Sitting next to his hospital bed, she sobbed and pre­pared for the worst. Then she felt his hand brush her hair. "I looked up and I said, 'I love you,"' she said. Stunned, she watched as he mouthed back, "I love you." "I define it as a miracle. That's my opinion as a mother," Christine said Thursday, recalling the moment Sunday night. Dr. Merrill Nisam, critical care director at Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae, said 20-year-old John Martin's emergence from the coma was "pleasantly for­tuitous, but it's not rare." Martin, who could stand up with assistance Thursday, faces months of rehabilitation. It probably will be at least a year before doctors know whether he will make a full recovery from his severe head injuries, Nisam said. 


~ 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 17. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ ,..--1\
H L B fSSI En! 0 IZa § ~ L_J, C-.-1 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUOY CLOUDY VIa Assoclale<1 PIYBS 
Manta 55 45 Dallas 62 37 New Orleans 60 59 Baltimore 47 27 Denver 61 26 New York 54 52 Boston 44 29 Los Angeles 80 52 Philadelphia 48 30 Chicago 48 28 Miami 84 71 Phoenix 79 52 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 49 23 Minneapolis 43 23 St. Louis 55 30 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet C1995Accu-Weather,lnc. 


Friday, February 17, 1995 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD


Paige: Dreams, desire bring success 
By CAROLINE BLUM graduated at the top of her never-ending process that is well. She also confronted the Board to News Writer class. She then attended medi­guided by one's desire to real­possibility of a deferred dream. 
cal school at Ohio State Univer­ize a dream."' 
Suecess results from a desire sity, and became the first black For Paige, her dream was to realizn one's dream, Dr. female to graduate. Her ac­founded in the sixth grade Sophia Paige said last night in a complishments continued when when she was called "stupid" leeture as part of African­she was offered a residency at by her teacher. She donated Ameriean Cultun~ Week. the University of California at her every effort towards prov­
Paige was invited to speak by Los Angeles. ing that she was not stupid. her sister Alia, a senior at Saint When she finishes her resi­When Paige entered college, Mary's and coordinator of the dency next year. she will quali­she realized that she had ac­week. fy as the first black woman to complished her dream. For this 
Alia Paign was given the task do so. reason, Paige claimed, the to lind an inspirational ~peaker Last night, however, Dr. Paige essence of a dream must be whom she thought was an did not wish to flaunt her present in every individual. African-American success. accomplishments. Bather, she The dream is the only way to When she reviewnd her original hoped to spread her recipe for reach success. list, she realized her real image success to the Saint Mary's of suceess was lwld by her sis­community. Paige continued her recipe ter, Sophia. "I believe my college personal for success with the insistence 
Sophia atll~nded the Univer­statement is the best words of that not only should one not be sity of Virginia, where she advice I can give you: 'the de­afraid of their dream, but the velopment of the individual is a dream must be one's own as 

BLESSED MOTHER LECTURE SERIES 
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 18,1995 7:30P.M. 
HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
Speaker: 


REV. DAVID A. GARRICK, C.S.C. 
Assistant Professor-Communication & Theatre 
Title: ''THE HUMOR OF JESUS: LIKE FATHER LIKE SON" ~I Sponsored by CAMPUS MINISTRY 
~t..'f'~l 
0fv1PUS 

MNI5TRY Admission free & parking on Juniper across from 1-Iesburgh Libr:uy 
"A deferred dream is simply that -deferred. People can only fail at their dreams if they lack the ability to try," said Paige. "We will always have that ability." 
Throughout college and med­ical school, Paige said, her jour­ney was not easy. She de­scribed times when people mis­took her for kitchen or cleaning help. However, Paige's courage and pride have given her a sar­castic attitude about the situa­tions. 
"In life, I've always remem­bered to keep my eye on the prize. In the words of Maya Angelou, 'you can bring me down, but like dust, I'll rise,"' said Paige. 
Paige closed the lecture with the reminder that success is a state of mind. She describes how success comes from the heart and works its way out. 
"Remember, there are no fail­ures, just setbacks. Your job is to decide what is a failure and what is a setback. Again, we are all destined to rise," said Paige . 
sponsor movie-thon 
By BECKY MAYERNIK News Writer 
The Student Activities Board (SAB) will sponsor a movie marathon this Friday night in Carroll Auditorium. The marathon is just one of a week-long schedule of cultural events that has taken place on the campus this week. 
The movies scheduled are "Uptown Saturday Night," "Trading Places," "The Wiz," "School Daze," and "Superfiy." The times for the movies will be at 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 p.m.. and the charge will be $1 per movie. 
Another event currently planned will be the appear­ance of the comedy troop Comedy Sportz, which is still scheduled to perform on February 24 from 9-11 p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 

Looking for a place to stay during: 
(~ Jl!9iaf..'~~n~ft~llend? 
(~ ca8~atUfi1 Weekend? (~ Weddings? (..-Home Football Games? 
Alumni Renting Out Historic Home For ND Special Events 
•Close 
to Campus (Just 2 miles Away!) 

•Safe 
Neighborhood 

•Competitive 
Rates 

•Fully 
Equiped Kitchen 

•University 
Club access 

•Summit 
Club access 

•5 
private suites w/ individual baths 

•Accomodates 
up to 14 




Available to Show by Appointment Call Helenfor More Information@ 219 287-8163 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 17, 1995 



Jeopardy 
continued from page 1 
some of the most intelligent col­lege students in the country. 
At the tryout, 100 college students were shown a video­tape of the show's host, Alex Trebek, reading questions. This test included 50 questions that were similar to those used on the show. Of these students, the 10 highest scorers played a mock game and told contest or­ganizers about themselves. 
Smith, from Coloma, Michi­gan, was notified in January that he had been selected from 150 finalists to compete in the championship. 
The tournament consi~~ of three rounds. The first, a quar­terfinal round, has five games. Each game will have three con­testants. The five winners of the games and four highest­scoring runners-up will ad­vance to the semifinal round, which will consist of three games. 
The collegiate champion will be determined when the three semifinal winners play two games. As the top prize, the champion will be given $25,000 or his/her winnings, depending upon which is larger. 
If Smith wins, he plans to use 
Use Observer Classifieds 
Bed 'N Breakfast 
Registry 
Rooms in private homes for: 
JPW. BLUE &GOLD. GRADUATION. FOOTBALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
and other special ND-SMC events 
(219)291-7153 






TRIPI
INTRODUCING: 
The~ Student Fares 


8-20/30
MINUTE PACKAGES 
or 
1 MONTH/3 MONTH UNLIMITED PACKAGES 
Oak'll~'ft l~ur Ctnti•~ Co.~~ 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
2n-7946 
H<JURS: I 9 to 8 Sdt. 9 to 6 Sun. I 1-5 

the prize money to help finance his law school education. After graduating from Notre Dame in May, Smith, a resident of Alumni Hall, plans to attend Georgetown University Law School in the fall to study constitutional law. 
"I find the cases and issues fascinating," Smith says of con­stitutional law as opposed to other types of law, such as tax law or corporate law. Law will be the basis of Smith's career, which, he says, may eventually lead to politics. 
The thought of what he can gain if he wins may be the source of Smith's mild ner­vousness. In speaking of the upcoming competition, Smith says he is "starting to get ner­vous," but he adds that he is "more anxious than nervous." 
Smith's attitude about the tournament seems to be one that is rather calm and relaxed considering he is facing proba­bly one of the most intellectual­ly challenging quizzes of his life, not to mention the fastest. He will have to answer ques­tions based on about twenty years of education packed with­in a television program lasting only thirty minutes -all in front of an audience, bright lights, and television cameras. 
Still, Smith remains calm. 
"I went in thinking I have 


nothing to lose," Smith says. "I want to continue with that atti­tude." 
Smith lists his strongest ar­eas of knowledge as those in­volving government and eco­nomics. His weakness, he says, is literature. He is brushing up on the plots and characters of many of Shakespeare's plays in order to prepare for the compe­tition. 
In addition to reading, Smith has been going through Trivial Pursuit cards for random bits of knowledge, and he has been watching Jeopardy as well as playing the computerized ver­sion of the game. 
Smith insists, however, that has not been "studying" for Jeopardy, as many of the other contestants he encountered at the try-out in Milwaukee were. He says he feels that if the knowledge he has with him thus far is not enough for him to win, then it is simply "not meant to be." 
The difficulty of the game, according to Smith, will be in the strategy of wagering his earnings on the Daily Doubles and on Final Jeopardy, which are opportunities for the contestants to get ahead by placing bets on the chance that they might answer a designated question correctly. 
Smith asks himself, "Am I 
Love, Dad, Mom, Mark, and Sarah 
going to have the nerve to bet?" 
This question cannot be an­swered, Smith says, until he is actually competing in the tour­nament. As for now, Smith says he will rely on what he knows and bet with a "real con­servative" attitude. 
"I have a pretty good grasp of knowledge," Smith says 
Smith says that appearing on Jeopardy has been a goal of his for about ten years, since he was in junior high. 
The competition, which will be taped on March 7 and 8 in Los Angeles, will be shown in South Bend on WSBT-TV at 
7:30 p.m. on May 1-5 and May 8-12. Although there will be a two-month period between the taping of the game show and its airing on television, Smith says he is "sworn to secrecy" not to reveal who the winner of the collegiate national champi­onship will be, in order to pre­vent the placing of bets by the avid Jeopardy fans. 
Smith says he is looking for­ward to staying in the Beverly Hills Hilton while in L.A. 
He is allowed only six friends or family members to be in the studio during the taping of the show. 
"I've always been a big fan of Jeopardy and had hoped some day to be a contestant. Now I'm proud that I'll have that chance as a representative of Notre Dame," he said. 
Smith will be missing school in March to make the trip out to L.A. He made arrangements with his professors to make up for the work he will miss. Because of the immensity of the test Smith faces, surely his absence will be excused. 




Voted # 1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993 
Banquet rooms 
Szechuan • Cantonese • American 
available for 
Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 
up to 200 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults f r il r 10 
ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB 
is hiring for student manager positions for the 95-96 school year 
•GREAT 
EXPERIENCE 

•REAL 
RESPONSIBILITIES 


•FUN ENVIRONMENT Open to Grads and Undergrads who are 21 and overby September '95 
Pick up Applications atStudent Activities, 315Lafortune 
DeadlineMarch 1st 1995 

Friday, February 17, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Combat not necessary Foster begins defense today 
GRADUATE STUDENT RETREAT 
Friday, March 3rd-Saturday, March 4th 8:00p.m. (24 hours) 8:00p.m. 

A time of silence and reflection, companionship and conver~ati?n. The reflections will be offered principally by Graduate Students. 
Place: Mary's Solitude at the back of the St. Mary's College Campus. 
Deadline: Reservations will be confirmed with payment of $15.00 to cover c?sts. If y~u need financial assistance, please let us know. Please make reservations by February 23rd. 
Contact Fr. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C., Fischer Residences 631-5873

,_.. __ 
or Sharon Harwell at Fischer Community Center 631-8607.
--·­

to write war literature 
By CHRISTINE DEBEVIC 
N~sWriter 
Just because women are not allowed to see action during war, does that mean that they should not write about the war? James Campbell, profes­sor of English, addressed this question yesterday afternoon at a gender studies lecture held in Decio Hall. 
One common misconception pertaining to literary criticism of the world wars, according to Campbell, is that in order to have knowledge of a war, one must have combat knowledge of that war. An author of war literature supposedly must have this knowledge in order to have something worthwhile to pass on to the audience. 
However, that is not necessarily true. 
• CORRECTION 
Wednesday's article on the Saint Mary's Archives should have said Sister Dunleavy became director two years after it was established.The Observer re ets the error. 
{. 
~: 

"The typical English world war poet was not a combatant, but a civilian, " Campbell said. "There must be more to war than what commonly goes un­der the title of war stories." 
The problem with focusing merely on combat experience as the only way one can fully experience war is that it makes "talking about war an exclu­sionary activity." Often wom­en's experiences are excluded because they have limited ac­cess to combat. 
Because most of the war literature has been written by men, the impact of war upon women has not been fully explored. 
"Therefore, combat experi­ence itself cannot tell the whole story," Campbell argued. By merely being a part of culture -which involves women as well as men -a person is automatically a part of war, he said. 
"Voices cannot be silenced. Excluding women's voices from war literature," Campbell said, "is a worse violence than war itself." 
Brad Mroczek 
Happy 19thBirthday on Feb. 18th 
Love, 
Mom 
Nominee to appear before Kassebaum 
By NITA LELYVELD 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Dr. Henry Foster Jr. says he wants senators to look at his entire life -not just at the fact that he has performed abor­tions -before deciding whether they can support him as surgeon general. 
Today, he will make his case to Sen. Nancy Landon Kasse­baum, the pro-choice Kansas Republican who chairs the La­bor and Human Resources Committee, which will hold hearings on his nomination. She has not taken a stand on Foster, but she has complained about White House handling of his nomination. 
Foster will also meet with Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass., the committee's former chairman, and another Demo­cratic committee member, Sen. Barbara Mikulski of Maryland, both of whom are among the 
Accelerated Program in Nursing 

• Earn a B.S. degree in nursing 
• Eligibility requirement: baccalaureate degree as of 
May'95 • Program begins May 30, 1995 ahd ends July, 1996 AppJ.\cation materials must be submitted by March 1, 1995. For·more information contact, 
Saint Mary's CollegeAdmission Office at (219) 284-687. 
small number of senators who have publicly supported him so far. In addition, he will pay a visit to pro-choice Republican Sen. Arlen Specter of Pennsyl­vania, who has given speeches on the Senate floor to say abor­tion should not be a litmus test in the nomination. 
An Associated Press poll of 1,008 adults found 36 percent supporting the Foster nomina­tion, 22 percent opposed and 41 percent unsure. Only 22 per­cent said performing abortions should automatically disqualify someone from being surgeon general. 
In meetings Wednesday with Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., and Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., Foster dis­cussed his plans for the job. 
"Mothers and babies, that's the future of this country," the 61-year-old Tennessee obste­trician-gynecologist said he told them. 
Since Foster's nomination was announced less than two weeks ago, it has been under fire from anti-abortion groups and conservative lawmakers. 
"There's a lot of lies out there, but I'm going to have my day. That's what the hearings are for," Foster told Daschle as 
Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the 
University of Notre Dame for ~~l~ege ~ra~~a~es interested in exploring the poss1bll1ty of a llfetunc of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
reporters looked on. "I want people to see my record, my whole life's work, see me in toto." 
After the meeting, Daschle re­leased a statement saying he was "increasingly encouraged" about the nomination. "He clearly understands the many critical public health issues fac­ing our country, and he has sound ideas about how to ad­vance solutions for them." Daschle said "no one is more capable" of addressing the is­sue of preventing teen preg­nancy. 
But opposition to Foster re­mained loud and strong. Many senators have criticized the nomination, citing as reasons both a lack of faith in his credi­bility and the abortions he has performed. The White House and Foster several times have changed their estimates of the number of abortions he per­formed. 
"His integrity is in serious question," said Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., a member of the Labor Committee. 
On the other side, Murray said she was excited about hav­ing a surgeon general who would be able to talk about women's health issues. 


"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
e Fresh Ingredients e lunch Specials starting at $3.50 
include: egg roll, soup and tea e Private Dining Booths! e Dinners starting at $5 e Custom cooking with no MSG e Vegetarian Menu e 15 Years of Service Award 

Reservations & Carry Out Call: 
272-6702 
Dine-In Delivery Call: 
>OJRS Ym·Tlus 11 AloU I'll Fri!dy If AII·IOPII SaiUI!Iay cPII·IO PU 

2328 


Friday, February 17, 1995

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




The Hatntlles NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
~~on the campus,, 
Open Monday -Saturday 9am -Spm 
Ask for it by nan1e. 
,. ' ' • • I ) o •• • ¥ , · I • ' ·• ' I ) · .( ~ • j 
• '"" A • • • • ' • "" • • • • • & • • • • a * '" • • • • 6 A Jo. • ,.. -" II. "-• a a " • & 0. .o. .. • "'.,. "" •· ••••.&.•.-.• --_.,_...., ........ \1.•"•' ~ .-·--__,.,. J. "''-.... __~._,.........,.._,:a -•·•• ·••~'-,i
....... V. 

_..._4... r~-'l--........._._.....,_,_,_,.,.--._.___, 
Friday, February 17, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Yeltsin defends Chechen war to parliament 
By LARRY RYCKMAN 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 

President Boris Yeltsin, look­ing somber but lit, defended his decision to send Hussian sol­diers to war in Chechnya and blamed his military leaders to­day for the "big losses" and "human rights violations" in the breakaway southern repub­lic. 
It was Yeltsin's sharpest criti­cism yet of the military. Some analysts have predieted a high­level shakeup will follow. 
Yeltsin, in his annual state of the nation address to a joint session of parliament, observed a moment of silence with law­makers in the Kremlin's Marble flail for victims of the Chechnya bloodshed. 
"The lire of an armed mutiny has not been yet extinguished in the Chechen republic," Yeltsin said. "Hussian soldiers fullill their duty in the most dif­ficult conditions there. People are still dying and suffering there." 
The president's health and drinking habits have been the subject of renewed speculation. For many in the hall, his per­formance was at least as inter­esting as what he had to say. 
Yeltsin looked confident as he strode to the microphone to de­liver the hourlong address. But he rarely looked up from his text and paused briefly at one point, apparently losing his place. 
He sounded defensive, espe­cially when explaining his eco­nomic and military policies to a largely unfriendly audience. Unlike previous addresses, there was no soaring rhetoric, no promises of better times ahead. 
Lawmakers offered Yeltsin a coldly polite reception, giving him mild applause only when he completed his speech. 
"The Russian president's ad­dress ... does not contain a sin­gle new word," Gennady Zyuganov, the leader of the Communist Party. said later. 
Yeltsin reaffirmed his support for economic and political re­forms, and urged lawmakers to sharply control state spending and curb inflation. He declared stabilizing the beleaguered ru­ble to be "the primary task." 
"We must build a bridge be­tween the inflationary past and the investment"rich future," he said. 
Yeltsin also said good rela­tions with Washington re­mained a major part of his for­eign policy, but he warned against any attempts to isolate Russia by expanding NATO eastward. 
"We do not want Europe and 
.-------------------------------------.. 
Please come to hear REV. EDWARD A. MALLOY C.S.C 
Speak on 


Pangborn Hall Social Space Monday Feb. 20th 9:00p.m. 
~N Esll ~~ w ~1) 
~ ~ 0 


~ Spanish Mass r­
19 domingo, de Febrero de 1995 
11:30 a.m. STANFORD-KEENAN CHAPEL 
Celebrante 
Padre Bob Pelton, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
All Are Welcome 
the world to return to old or new divisive lines," he said. 
In Washington, Secretary of State Warren Christopher told a congressional panel he was re­viewing Yeltsin's speech and was not prepared to analyze it. 
Christopher noted, however. Yeltsin's commitment to hold elections and said, "It's very important that those commit­ments go forward and be kept." 
It was Yeltsin's first major address since he sent 40,000 soldiers into Chechnya on Dec. 11 to force the republic to re­nounce its self-proclaimed in­dependence. 
Thousands of people have been killed and the Chechen capital, Grozny, has been turned into a wasteland. 
Since the war began, Yeltsin's popularity has plunged to an all-time low, and some law­makers have urged the presi­dent to resign before his term expires in 1996 . 
Yeltsin said today that he
intended to hold presidential and parliamentary elections as scheduled. 
The president had delayed his annual address twice, appar­ently waiting until his soldiers gained the upper hand in Chechnya. A two-day truce took effect there today. 
Yeltsin said Russia was forced to act to remove the "cancerous tumor of the Grozny regime," which he said had "made crim­inal business its main job." 
While praising Hussian sol­diers, he said the events in Chechnya demonstrated the need to reorganize the military command, which he blamed for 


Happy 21st Birthday Patrick 
2-20-95 
We're Proud of You 
Love, MomandDad 
Christian Matthew jonathan 
& Caroline 
the "failures. setbacks and mis­takes" in the war. 
"We must admit that at pre­sent the armed forces are not prepared to resolve local con­flicts," he said. They used the "same old" tactics in the initial stage of the operation, and their efforts were "uncoordi­nated," he said. 
"This is the main reason for the big losses," he said. "This is the root of the human rights violations in the course of com­bat activities." 
There have persistent reports that Yeltsin plans to oust De­fense Minister Pavel Grachev or other top officials involved in planning the Chechnya offen­sive, which began as an all-out, Soviet-style offensive reminis­cent of the war in Afghanistan. 
Unlike Afghanistan, many Russian soldiers were reluctant to fire on the enemy -in this case their countrymen -and relied on artillery and rocket fire to wear the rebels down. 
"This year we must take de­cisive measures to reorganize the armed forces," Yeltsin said. "We must improve their fund­ing, their training, the coordi­nation of all actions to ensure law and order and the defense capabilities of the country." 
The war has badly tarnished Yeltsin's once-heroic image as a democrat. Even reformers have distanced themselves from the man who launched Russian reforms three years ago. 
Western leaders have been careful to continue expressing support for Yeltsin as the best hop!l for reforms in Russia, but they privately worry about his stability. 





~~asyli'~tG& 
Super Saver Prices on Roses Balloon Bouquets It Stuffing, Plants, Fresh Flowers, Plush Animals, Gift Baskets 
Clocktower Square 51400 31 North 
(219)277-1291

South Bend, IN 46637 
The Department of Music 
quest .9{rtist Series presents 

I.J I\OfQUC or ncnJJSSJnrc 
l~ranrc 
The Baltimore Consort 

2:00p.m. Sunday February 19, 1995 Washington Hall 

$5 t!nt!ral admission; $2 .vtudent.v and unior.v 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, February 17, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............•................... David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Spons Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scott Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Controller ..................................... Krisren Martina 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Ediror, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Phoro Editor, Sports Edirot, and Sainr Mary's Ediror. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not necessarily those of The Observ~r. Viewpoint space is available to all members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
"'{OUR tbNOR, 
~A5KTHAT 
MS.CJ._.AID{.
REMOVE HER 
ANGEL PIN 

Respect and dignity come with treating people as individuals 
"We hold these truths to be self evi­dent, that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their creator certain unalienable rights; that among those rights are life, liberty and the pur­suit of happiness." 
-The Declaration ofIndependence 
Word to live by, and for. Words for which many have died, and undoubted­ly, words that have affected the lives of all Americans. We, as Americans, so often hear and speak these very words, but do we fully understand their impor­tance? They once served as the embodi­ment of a new way of thinking; a think­ing which radically changed this coun-

D.J. 
Sarafa 


try's understanding of equality; a think­ing which changed institutions that had existed for hundreds of years; a thinking which brought this country to the pinna­cle of world leadership, and to its knees as well. 
Nearly all modern day racial disputes may be traced back to a variance in interpretation of this sacred document, which asserted that all men were creat­ed equal. The epicenter of this dispute culminates in a fundamental disagree­ment over how natural and universal equality mandates our treatment of one another, with regard to our racial, eth­nic, and cultural composition. 
One school of thought maintains that because we are equal we ought treat one another without regards to racial difference. Such thinking was articulat­ed by Martin Luther King Jr. when he said we ought to judge a man by the content of his character, and not by the color of his skin. · He strove to empha­size the sameness in all Americans; he emphasized that blacks were, in fact, no different from whites. Ultimately, this school of thought seeks to create a color-blind society in which we de­emphasize the differences in race, cul­ture and ethnicity that often seem to tear us apart. 
The other school of thought diametri­cally opposes this thinking. They main­tain that because we are equal, we must respect one another's individual and cultural identities. We cannot ignore these differences because they are part of each one of us; recognizing and respecting these cultural and racial dif­ferences equally preserves the human dignity of every group. 
The mutual exclusivity of these schools of thought leads to racial tension. If we emphasize sameness in people, we neglect to recognize peoples distinct cul­tures, and we suppress the uniqueness and beauty accompanying such cultures. If we emphasize the differences in one another, we fragment the American populous and risk racial tension. 
Affirmative action programs, which have clearly chose to emphasize differ­ence, have unquestionably divided the country; opponents claiming reverse dis­crimination and unfair favoritism, and supporters claiming such programs are necessary to equalize the races, pointing to the terrible crimes committed by this country's ancestors. 
These programs purport to help foster the equalization of disadvantaged blacks. While they may accomplish this goal, they also taint the accomplish­ments of capable blacks that do not need or desire such preferential treat­ment. They often help blacks that are not disadvantaged at all, such as those from the West Indies who, on average, earn 15 percent more money than the average American. Furthermore, as noted above, the programs often cause resentment and malevolence among whites. 
On the other hand, these programs have helped to elevate the status of blacks in today' s society. In 1961, only 34 years ago, a survey concluded that "98 percent of white-collar job orders received from over 5,000 companies were not available to qualified Negroes" in that year (Bart Landry). But between 1967 and 1989 the number of black families considered to be "affluent" increased five-fold (Jarrod Taylor). Between 1972 and 1991, the number of black accountants has increased 4 79 percent; black lawyers 280 percent; and black computer programmers 343 per­cent (ibid). Furthermore, research by Harvard economist Richard Freeman indicates that "comparisons of blacks and whites who grew up in the same cir­cumstances and went on to get similar educations show no differences in their average incomes" (ibid). This progress in the economic realm is encouraging, but our society continues to be troubled by racial tension and inequity. 
The question naturally arises: can the current system of affirmative action retain these benefits without alienating whites? Can our governmental, educa­tional, and public policy continue to stress the difference between blacks and whites, while attempting to encourage people to treat others as equals in terms of sameness. The answer is no. 
We can, however, modify the system to continue to help disadvantaged blacks, without alienating whites through a system of class-based affirma­tive action. Such a system would pro­vide preferential treatment (namely in education) to those in poverty; after all, these are the people who are truly dis­advantaged-problems such as poverty, inadequate education, dependency, and criminal behavior. do not discriminate on the basis of race. These problems that affect our society's disadvantaged and disenfranchised-blacks, whites and people of all ethnic and racial back­grounds. 
With a system of class-based affirma­tive action well-qualified blacks would no longer be stigmatized by stereotypes that they wrongfully received preferen­tial treatment, no longer will affirmative action help those who do not need such help, and no longer will blacks be receiving benefits simply because of the color of their skin. 
This system would de-emphasize racial difference, and would be coupled with the understanding that while race, culture, and ethnicity are important, we must first focus on the individual as a person. We ought to respect one anoth­er's background in the same manner we do religion; respecting that each person has his or her own religious beliefs although ours may be different. We must remember: equality was bestowed on us by God without respect to our dif­fering backgrounds and we ought to continue to treat it as such. 
D.J. Sarafa is a first-year law student 

~?51R.,7HATS!N­~ANf3.t HOWCAN tuf3~8/.Y CIJNll?Ot.­~KitJSr I  GARRY TRUDEAU HON&Y, THei?&'RE Ft;WOf/WC"AI?£ f'R081£M~ 7HifT CAN'T~ fi}l.#;l) tu/THCUiTTAPlii.  
, r r­ 

• Qmrn: Of TH£ DAY 
''No one can build his security upon the nobleness of another person." 
-Willa Cather 
Alexander's Bridge, 1912 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 17, 1995 page 9 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
NO's intolerance scares off open minds 
Dear Editor: 
In light of the two letters printed in the Feb. 13 edition of the Observer, I would like to respond to both Jay Town and Greg Van Grunsven. 
First, I would like to address Town's letter, which makes many false assumptions and assertions. Town paints a picture of Gays and Lesbians Notre Dame /Saint Mary's College as a sort of recruitment organization, in which members go on midnight raids to kidnap and brainwash new initiates. This assumption is so ridiculous that it would be laughable were it not earnestly written and published in the school newspaper. 
Through all the harrowing bureaucratic trials GLND/SMC has been put through in the past few weeks, it has maintained its integri­ty as a well-run, supportive group which asks merely for tolerance and university and student sanction so that homosexual students might have some small venue through which to form a sense of communi­ty and support. 
Town says that one of GLND/SMC's primary functions is "to foster homosexual ideals and activity." The question I have for him is this: How do homosexual ideals and activities differ from his heterosexual ones outside of the fact that he is not attracted to peo­ple of the same gender? Doesn't everyone have to eat and go to class and take a shower once in a while? This group is not out to recruit Town and his compatriots. 
Second, I would like to voice my agreement with Greg Van Grunsven regarding the "silent majority." Having witnessed the debacle of Oregon ballot measure nine first hand, I can recall the opinions voiced in candid discussions and even through newspapers, bumper stickers, and yard signs. People, for the most part, were afraid not of homosexuality but of Lon Mabon and his hate-crazed club, the Oregon Citizen's Alliance. 
Human psychology is such that people are much more inclined to speak out on an issue if they are in opposition to it. The lack of uproar, while unfortunate from the stand­point that the administration may look upon it as a condemnation of GLND/SMC, probes that people are not upset at the thought of the exis­tence of such a group on this cam­pus. 
It is time for Jay Town and the Notre Dame administration to get with the times, for if the closed­minded and archaic denials of recognition and respect for homo­sexual students at a Catholic uni­versity continue, Notre Dame will eventually reach the point where no one of open-minded tendencies will want to attend. And that will mark a sad day for the administrative hierarchy, as tuition checks will relocate to more tolerant and humane schools. 
DAVID CONDON 
Freshman 
Zahm Hall 

Salem witch trials come to South Bend 
Dear Editor: The following is meant to be face­tious: 
In response to Jay Town's letter, I must readily agree with his pearls of wisdom. His intellect pierces straight to the heart of the true nature and activities of GLND/SMC. I know many homosexuals on cam­pus and have witnessed the effects that this coven of moral doom has had on students. 
I have seen a friend of mine go into one of these meetings in order to uncover the horrific extent of this group's unadulterated evil, and I have seen him come out...altered. lie went in, eyes alight with the happiness of Christ's salvation, secure in his masculinity, a loyal fan of football and guns, and emerged a stark. raving homosexu­
a!. 

He burst into my room and tack­led me screaming, "I must have sex, I must have sex, oh, ye gods, I must have sex with men!" His eyes were bloodshot with insanity, his mouth frothed with rage of the damned. I barely escaped. 
And concerning my other homo­sexual friends, I can barely main­tain the slightest semblance of friendship. All they do is have sex and go to GLND/SMC meetings, which generally do not last very long because someone very shortly into the meeting invariably says something to the effect of, "Hey, what the hell are we doing here, talking and supporting each other, when we could be having all sorts of crazy sex?" 
On any given day of the week, I'll call one of these sexually disorient­ed friends and the conversation will go something like this: 
"Hello?" 
"Hey, what sup? It's Rick." 
"Busy. Having sex." Click. 
This lifestyle is a living damnation and its infectious tendrils creep across the campus as I write, defil­ing its purity. I sit in my room, shaking in the film of cold sweat covering my Aryan body and pictur­ing little homosexuals crawling out of the woodwork. They laugh and dance about me like pink-triangles, lisping Furies. 
This madness must be stopped. And with the support of other like­minded groups, it can be done. 
RICK BORST 
Grace Hall 
Sophomore 
Irish swimmers 
denied coverage 

despite hard work 

Dear Editor: 
Did you know that the Notre Dnme women's swimming tenm has attained a 14-1 record? Did you hear that junior Ryan Beville broke two Notre Dame records, namely the 100 nnd 200 butterfly. previously set back in 1991? Did you know that Head Coach Time Welsh received Coach of the Year honors at the National Catholic Championships? 
Unless you are a roommate with or friend or a swimmer/diver, you most likely do not know of the tremendous achievements that the swimming/diving team has made throughout the year. Unfortunately for the members of the men's and women's swim­ming/diving teams. the Observer has adopted a poli­cy not to publish articles detailing the results of their meets. The reason remains undisclosed. 
Swimming, as with all competitive sports, requires commitment and hours of practice. By 6 
a.m. members of the Notre Dame swimming team have gotten out of bed, trudged across campus, and hit the pool for morning practice. After classes, these swimmers return to Rolfs Aquatic Center for two more hours of intense training. Why? Because they are committed to their coaches, their team­mates and themselves to achieve both team and individual goals. 
The men's team beat traditional rival, St. Bonaventure, and took the National Catholic Championship meet. The women's team defeated several powerhouse schools including: Brigham Young University, Air Force and Southern Illinois. They also won the National CathoHc Championship meet. 
In two weeks, both teams begin the championship portion of their season. Throughout The Midwest Conference Championships, held at Notre Dame from February 23-25, and The Easter Collegiate Championships set for March 2-4, the teams expect to qualify between six and fifteen swimmers for the NCAA Championships. Hopefully, the Observer will choose to both preview these championship meets and publish the results. 
As for the members of the swimming and diving teams, I can only wish you the best of luck in the upcoming championship meets. 
Go Irish swimming! 
KATHRYN PAMENTER 
Third year law student 

• IAM Nor A POTTED PLANT 


The Church protects every hu01an fro01 Hell, even gays 
Homosexuals are not an "other." ing in his or her obligation to help you sin-then the Church must warn people on the sources of truth we have in Ilomosexuals are sinners, just as I am, perform at the highest level you could. who are committing the sin of homo­Catholicism, we cannot view homosexu­and just as you are. Even if most homo­The Church's role is to call people to sexuality that they are endangering al acts as a right. We must, on the con­sexuals have a genetic predisposition holiness. Were the Church to conscious­their immortal souls. trary, view the avoidance of such acts as toward a particular sin, they are still ly call homosexuals to a lesser state of But why does the Church believe an obligation. humans, and subject to the same rules perfection, it would be guilty of rank homosexual acts to be sins? There's no This isn't the only obligation we have as other humans. The Church's concept hypocrisy. need to go into it (if you want to know, as Christians, and it certainly cannot be of human solidarity often puts it on the Thus, if homosexual acts are wrong, ask Professor Rice). The Church's the Church's only focus. But in amongst side of protection the rights of the the Church cannot absolve people of authority rests on the "twin pillars" of everything else, it's important for the oppressed: i.e. the poor, the unborn. the homosexual acts en masse. On the con­Tradition and Scripture. Both teach that Church to denounce homosexual acts deformed, the dying, those on death trary, the Church must be a moral re­homosexual acts are wrong. Sorry to be mainly because there are many forces in row. source for homosexuals, all the more so so simplistic, but as Freud said, some­our society and on our campus which 
But rights and responsibilities go 
times a cigar really is just a cigar. suggest that those acts are acceptable, hand in hand. The rights of the unborn Of course, some people would reason and maybe even good. People have a impose responsibilities on the mother. it out backwards: we know scientifically right not to be propagandized into Likewise, homosexuals are humans, that some people are homosexual in ori­accepting false teachings. The position which not only gives them the right to entation; therefore, homosexual acts of GLND/SMC is a false teaching. We

Charles 
live with dignity. but also imposes on must not be sins, since God is just and must reject it. them the responsibility of living up to loving, and how could he put homosexu­That's why I generally support the universal norms of human behavior als in such a situation. Setting aside the school's current policy. Unfortunately, it 

Roth 
(including the command not to engage fact that we're placing ourselves in judg­sounds like we're trying harder to pre­in homosexual acts). ment over God (when our feeble minds vent "contamination" of our campus 
How could sexual orientation make cannot possible comprehend his infinite than to convert people from their sins. you different from everyone else in any if homosexuality is partially genetic. goodness, etc.), this statement simply This defensive Catholicism is decidedly important way? One's sexual orienta­Would the Church be a greater resource doesn't follow logically. What about not the attitude Christ would want of us. tion does not substantially affect one's for homosexuals (or anybody else) if it original sin, which creates in us all an Indeed, I wonder whether it wouldn't capacity to think, or to act. It apparent­became more "hospitable," but lost its orientation toward sin? Why should we send a more loving message for Notre ly does not affect your ability to have courage to stand up for what it believes? assume that an inclination toward Dame to ban membership in GLND/SMC "faith" in the existence of God, or in the If salt loses its flavor, what's it good for? homosexual acts is created by God? It altogether (we already ban membership Catholic Church. But some would have Precisely because the Church is unwill-might make sense in some other reli­in fraternities, sec p59 of Du Lac). the Church say, patronizingly, to homo­ing to go with the flow, it is a greater gious system, but not within the frame­It may sound less loving, but as An­sexuals: you're just different. We won't resource for homosexuals, and all peo-work of Catholicism. drew Sullivan pointed out in his recent hold you to the same standards as pie. That is why I just cannot conceive of talk, the Church has an obligation to be everyone else. Which is all to say, that so long as the homosexuals occupying a separate cate­intellectually honest. If we really think 
That would be a very false form of Church considers homosexual acts to be gory from the rest of humanity. that homosexual acts could lead to 
eharity, indeed. Imagine for a second against the will of God (a.k.a. sins), it Homosexuals do not, by their choice or Hell-if GLND/SMC is so disordered as to 
some elementary school teacher who cannot fail to bring that point to the "discovery" (or whatever it is), become have no place on our campus-maybe 
believes (stupidly) that blacks have dif­attention of all humans, of whatever ori-a different type of person. The world is we should do more than act negatively 
ferent intellectual capacities than whites entation. If the Church really loves not divided into two groups of people, to ban things. 
(i.e. less), and who therefore expects homosexuals (which it must), it cannot the gays and the straight (three if you less of the blaeks in his or her class. If fail to tell them that they are committing count bisexuals). We are all humans, Charles Roth is a second year law stu­you were black and got that sort of sin. If you accept (for one moment) three created by the some God. Homosexual dent. treatment, wouldn't it frustrate the heck propositions-there is a Hell, that sin people must, then , have the same rights out of you? That teacher would be fail-gets you there, and homosexuality is a and responsibilities as straights. Based 
.. -. . . . . .. .. .. .. . ~ . . -. . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . ........ •o ........... • I ·• •O 'I .. •I •I •• •I I •• ...... "I a I I •••"I .• " • I I I I o • I .. o ... I .0 .. 6 I • I 0o I • ~ .. & 6 ••
~ 

page 10 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, February 17, 1995 
mantras. Marilyn Duffy came to Notre Dame as a transfer student. Not too long after­wards and she was chairing the 

The Wonder Years ... 
Transfer Orientation Committee herself. Marilyn's mother said, "She wanted to share with oth­ers and help others... Marilyn went full circle and came out

Aren't you glad they're over? 
on top. She didn't let anything stand in her way." 

Some moments stand out for By KRIST A NANNERY some special event or another, parish-how he was a fine such a long trip in order to years in the memories of both Accent Editor someone will drag out the slide Catholic boy. The priest took understand my life at Notre parents and their children. 
C
projector, give it a little dusting, him in and let him stay the ma­Dame." Michelle McCarthy, a Notre lean your room. Do and before you know it, every­jority of the summer." He even How many times do you think Dame junior from Missouri, your homework. Walk one's a little misty eyed. eventually found a job as a the normal little kid hears the has loved soccer since first the dog. Be home by Junior Parent's Weekend at landscaper. words, "You're not going out to grade. Her parents recollect two. Eat your veggies. Take Notre Dame and Sophomore Getting the kids out of the play until your homework i~ one memorable game: Michelle your vitamins. Wear your seat­Parent's Weekend at Saint house often works out well for done!" Those words can and a teammate successfully belt. How often does your Mary's are thus especially everyone involved. Trent Bell, sometimes have a pretty big carried out a tricky play-at the average kid hear these phrases meaningful occasions for both a junior from Indianapolis, impact on the direction that lit­last minute. The family was in in the course of a normal parties involved. says, "My parents and I relate tle kid's life takes. Take Vinnie the stands for the unforgettable week? Pretty often, anyone Surprisingly though, or per­much better now since I've Herman for example. "My par­event and say proudly of their would agree. Ask the kid and haps not so surprisingly, ask been away at school. We can ents used to make me rewrite daughter, "We've been compli­they'll say "Too often." Yet no any Notre Dame or Saint actually hang out together now my papers when I was I kid mented for her sweetness and matter how many times they Mary's student or parent to (and drink a beer)." until I thought I would scream." kindness. She's always been a hear the words, no matter how name a particularly meaningful Now he's an English major. star in sports, but it has never loudly they might complain, the moment in their family's life, JPW/SPW is often the first Some influences go even fur­affected her." rooms get cleaned, the home­and you're greeted by silence, a time that some parents ther back. In 1936, Sean Nor­Eventually though, kids grow work gets done (eventually), the false start, a pause, then, "I get to see the cosmopoli-ton's grandfather graduated up. They change. They have veggies get eaten, and if the don't know;" "There are just so tan mecca of South Bend, from Notre Dame with a major kids of their own. And before 
~ parents are really lucky, the many;" 'Til need to think about Indiana. Some come from as in chemical engineering. Ex­you know it, they're making 
r kids are home by two. this for a while;" ''I'll get back close by as Elkhart. Others actly sixty years later, Sean, the their own children eat their 
r It works both ways, of course. to you." Give people some time come from less exotic locales, third in his family to attend veggies and drink their milk. 
,r The typical parent hears ''I'm though, and you'd be surprised like Hawaii. Kristi Broderick, a Notre Dame, will be graduating They've got their own kids to hungry," "I don't feel well," "I at the spectrum and variety of Notre Dame junior, noted "My with exactly the same major. protect from Boogeymen and r don't want to go to school to­the answers. parents are coming for JPW all Hard work will always pay off monsters under the bed. Andr day," and "Can I have gas There are the somewhat in­the way from Hawaii. I really in the end is another one of they've got their own kids to getr money?" more frequently than significant things, made all the appreciate them for making those frequently heard parental misty-eyed over.
r 
anyone would care to admit. more special by the emphasis
r
, And parents are not only re­placed on them. Little things
, sponsible for simply bringing like crab legs, for instance. children into the world, but Craig Robinette says of his par­they have the added responsi­ents: "Every time I come home bility of wiping someone else's from break, my mom makes nose, doing someone else's me my favorite crab leg meal. dirty laundry, reading the same She knows it's my favorite. All silly, rhyming children's book my brothers and sisters join me until they know it by heart, and we have a family party." and horror-of-horrors, bearing And then there are parents the brunt of post-pubescent who like to keep their kids on moodiness and verbal abuse. If their toes. They talk about anyone deserves some form of "those crazy kids." How about recognition, it's a parent. "those crazy parents?" Flanner Admittedly, there are times junior Fred Wettermark's, cer­when the members of the tainly fit that mold. He says, younger generation take advan­"During my sophomore year my tage of their elders; they're parents just showed up one easy to rely on for pocket week completely unannounced. change, for cars, for sustenance We had a great time hanging and of course, as an added out together." perk, for love. Does absence make the heart There's more to this, though. grow fonder? The parents of More than gas money, made Christopher Lary had an inter­beds, done dishes, and Disney esting experience last summer World. Try to deny it, but in when their son decided to do every young adult's mind, there something different. He got are moments when a parent's into his car and drove to a generosity is remembered espe­place he'd never been to cially. These little events accu­before-Martha's Vineyard. It mulate over the years and mix was a pretty long drive from his with the more important ones. home state of Iowa, especially Before you know it, it's ten considering he had no job and years later and the kids are all nowhere to stay once he got grown up. Maybe they've got there. His mother adds, "He kids of their own now. At wrote to the pastor of the 
What our parents have done for us 
tucked us in•protected us from the Boogeyman•taught ~show to play ball• brought us into the wo.rld•wiped our :·.· noses•taught us about God•thrown us brrthday par~ 
.···ties•made us take our vitamins•made us drink our fuHk,made us eat ou~ veggies•mended cu!s•wrote our absence notes•made our beds•done our dishes•read to 
us•watched every Disney movie in creation with us•paid the bills•checked under the bed for monsters•taught us how to read•played with us•cleaned our rooms•forgiven us•given us gas money•buttoned us up•taken us out for ice cream•made us pay our speeding tickets•played Santa•dried our tears•hugged us• been our personal chauffers•sat through endless little league games and dance recitals• let us stay up late on New Year's Eve•bragged about us to their friends•took us trick or treating•embarrassed us in front of prom dates•kissed it ~() make it better•bosted many a sleep over•told us they 
·· · believe m us 
What we've done for our parents
made it this far•made our beds•cleaned the garage•called them on their birthdays•mowed the lawn•cleaned our rooms•done the dishes•done our homework•washed our hands•brushed our ~eeth•cleaned our rooms•said our first word•ate our veggies•drank our m1lk•took our vitamins•took out the garbage•driven carefully•worn our seatbelts•been home by 2•walked th~ dog•fed the cat•given them gas 
money•paid our speeding tickets• bundled tip in cold weather•remembered our umbrella•driven the speed . limit•hugged them 
/ 

Friday, February 17, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 11 



Parseghian: Agoal for life 
I 
j 
j j j j j j 
I I 
j j 



···Friday 

•7 8c 9.~30 ONLY YOU, CARROLL HALL~SMC 
•7:30 
& 9:45 PM INTERVIEW WITH AVAMPIRE, ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM, SNITE MUSEUM 

•8 
PM SHE STOOPS TO CONQUER, WASHINGTON HALL 


Saturday 

•1 
PM MEN'S TENNIS VS. DUKE, ECK PAVILLION 

•1 
PM NO TRACK VS. MAR· QUETTEIW. MICHIGAN 

•1 
AND 2:30 PM SHENANIGANS PERFORMS ANNENBERG AUDI­TORIUM, SNITE MUSEUM 

•7 
8c 9:30 ONLY YOU, CARROLL HALL, SMC 

•7:30 
& 9:45 PM INTERVIEW WITH A VAMPIRE~ ANNENBERG AUDITORIUM, SNITE MUSEUM 

•1 
1 AM WOMEN'S TENNIS VS. ALABAMA, ECK PAVILLION 

•1 
:30 TO 4:30 PM BALTIC CELE· BRATION FESTIVAL, HESBURGH CENTER 

•2 
PM THE BALTIMORE CON· SORT, WASHINGTON HALL 





Movies 

UNIVERSITY PARK EAsT PULP FICTION 2, 5: 15, 8:45 QUIZ SHOW 1:30, 4:10, 7, 9:40 LEGENDS OF THE FALL 1:30, 4:15, 7:10, 
9:55 BILLY MADISON 1:45, 4, 7. 9 BEFORE SUNRISE 2:10, 4:50, 7:30, 9:45 DUMB & DUMBER 2, 4:30, 7: 15 HIGHER L..E:ARNING 9:30 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST (JN UP MALL) BOYS ON THE SlOE I :45, 4:20. 7, 9:40 NOBODY'S FOOL 2, 4:40, 7: 15, 9:40 THE BRADY BUNCH MOVIE 2:15, 4:30. 
6:45,9 
By PAITI CARSON 
A,.,istant Accent Editor 
J
unior Parents Weekend has arrived at last. You can bet there will be families celebrat­ing at Notre Dame this weekend, laughing and enjoying everything, living for the moment. 
But there are some members of the Notre Dame community who are not celebrating this weekend. Michael and Cindy Parseghian, both Notre Dame graduates of 1977, are in a race against time to save the lives of their three youngest chil­dren. 
Their children, Michael, 7, Marcia, 6, and Christa, 3, have been diag­nosed with Niemann-Pick Type C disease, a genetic disorder that pro­hibits the metabolism of cholesterol. The disease is characterized as pro­gressive, degenerative, and until a cure is found, fatal. Ara, the oldest of the family's four children, is ten years old and does not have the dis­ease. 
The children's grandfather is the legendary Notre Dame football coach Ara Parseghian, who led the Irish to two national championships. "As in most of the events of my life, I will not accept this situation without a fight," said Parseghian. He devoted ten years of his coaching career to Notre Dame and now Parseghian is fighting for something of vital importance-the lives of his grandchildren. 
Michael showed symptoms first. "His motor skills were deteriorating and he wasn't healthy," the chil­dren's aunt, Kristan Humbert said. 
"Michael underwent an unbe­lievable amount of testing. The dis­ease actually took two years to diag­nose," Humbert added. The two smallest girls have also been diag­nosed with Niemann-Pick, which, according to the aunt, is a bizarre phenomenon. 
The disease is complicated and takes a toll on the body rather quick­ly. When the cholesterol accumu­lates within the cells of the spleen, liver, and brain, the nervous system becomes damaged. 
The body deteriorates and speech becomes slurred. The vision becomes impaired, as does balance. For this reason, all of the corners of tables and furniture in the house are padded so that Michael does not hurt himself. As the disease pro­gresses into its final stages, demen­tia and seizures occur. 
A recent article In The Chicago Tribune quoted Dr. Michael Parmacek, a University of Chicago 

-~ocll Aro Po111ghloa · 
University of Notre Dame 11164·1974 
Northwestern University 1956-1963 
Miami University (Ohio) 1951-1955 
molecular cardiologist with expertise in the area of Niemann-Pick Type C disease. Dr. Parmacek said, "With this disease, diagnosis is usually between the ages of five and ten years, and the average child then lives about ten years. 
The disease is extremely rare. As few as 500 cases of Niemann-Pick Type C have been diagnosed in the United States, according to Parmacek. 
Currently there is no treatment for the disease. Research is key; in the meantime the children are kept on strict diets to avoid cholesterol. 
"The children can eat absolutely no fat. And they take a lot of vita­mins. Each evening they take prim­rose oil," Humbert said. "We've even concocted some new specialties since the kids can't have meat or fat. Recently we've developed 'Turkey McNuggets. "' 
As a result of the family crisis, the Parseghians have developed the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation. It is a nonprofit volun­teer corporation which funds research that may lead to a cure for Niemann-Pick. 
Currently, geneticists are working to isolate the defective gene. They are confident that the gene can be isolated within two years. 
Increased funding will speed up the development of new therapeutic strategies to treat victims of Niemann-Pick; funding will also shorten the timetable for isolating the gene. 
"The family hopes to raise one mil­lion dollars by April. That is the goal," Humbert said. This money will fund four labs in which researchers will work for answers. 
"This research may help not only my grandchildren but other children as well. It also may help thousands of adults fighting heart disease, stroke, Alzheimer's Disease and other disorders that appear to be re­lated to the metabolism of choles­terol," Parseghian said. 
A key ingredient in the Foun­dation's research program is a Scientific Advisory Board. This Board consists of internationally rec­ognized molecular biologists, pathol­ogists, and geneticists. It is the job of these doctors to formulate the direction of research and to recom­mend certain grant proposals to the Foundation. 
"Both Michael and I graduated from Notre Dame." said Cindy Parseghian, mother of the children with Niemann-Pick. Michael gradu­ated with a premedicine degree and Cindy graduated with a degree in ac­counting. They are now using their medical and financial knowledge to save their children. 
"What we remember most is the community spirit at Notre Dame," Cindy Parseghian said. "The prayers are greatly appreciated and very helpful. We need that support right now." 
The Parseghians have contributed significantly to the Notre Dame com­munity. Now the family asks for Notre Dame's support and prayers. 
In recent literature published by his medical research foundation, Ara Parseghian said: "To paraphrase the Notre Dame fight song, 'What though the odds be great or small, with your help, we will win over all."' 
For more information, 
please contact: 
Ara Parseghian Medical Research 
Foundation 
Post Office Box 65662 
Tucson, Arizona 85718 
(602) 324-3816 page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 17, 1995 

• COlLEGE ROUND·UP 



Tar Heels blow out Clemson, take lead in ACC 
Associated Press 
Second-ranked North Carolina extended its NCAA record 20-win seasons to 25 straight Thursday night, getting 24 points from Donald Williams in a 66-39 victory over Clemson. 
The Tar Heels (20-2, 10-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) upped their record against the Tigers in Chapel Hill to 41-0 and moved one game in front of No. 7 Maryland and No. 16 Virginia in the league standings with four ACC games remain­ing. North Carolina, which pushed its all-time record against Clemson to 98-14, plays at Virginia on Sunday. 
Williams, who matched his season-high point total, sank six 3-pointers, including 4 of 6 in the first half, while Greg Buckner led the Tigers with 15 points. 
Clemson (13-8, 3-8) decided to attack the taller Tar Heels from the outside, but managed to hit only 2 of 12 3-pointers in the first 20 minutes while play­ing its deliberate offense. 
The Tigers missed eight straight shots -five from long range -and went without a point during an eight-minute stretch as North Carolina took control. Clemson ended up 5­for-21 from the field in the opening period. The Tar Heels went on a 15-0 run during the Tigers' dry spell and opened up a 23-5 lead 12 1/2 minutes into the game. Williams sank con­secutive 3-pointers 49 seconds apart during the spurt. 

Pat Sullivan, sidelined all sea­son after back surgery on Dec. 8, saw his first action for the Tar Heels and scored his first two points of the season on a pair of free throws 2:40 before intermission. Buckner's dunk with 35 seconds left in the first half kept the Tigers from its season-low point total for a half. which was 13 at Virginia earlier in the season. 
The closest the Tigers got in the second half was 18 points. 
No. 5 Massachusetts 73, Duquesne 56 

Lou Roe scored 20 points and Marcus Camby surprisingly returned to action to add 11 as No. 5 Massachusetts easily de­feated Duquesne 73-56 Thursday night. 
Derek Kellogg had 13 of his 16 points by halftime as the Minutemen (19-3, 10-2 Atlantic 
10) rolled to a 41-19 intermis­sion lead. Tom Pipkins scored 19 points for Duquesne (8-14, 5-9). 
Camby, who hadn't played since Feb. 1, when he strained his left hamstring, was ex­pected to miss three weeks. The 6-foot-11 sophomore, how­ever, entered the game after four minutes to thunderous applause. UMass ran off 10 consectuive points to take a 12­2 lead, then posted a 13-2 run to turn a 16-10 game into a 29­12 romp with 8:06 to go in the first half. 
Duquesne made just 18 per­cent (6-for-33) of its first-half shots. The Dukes never got closer in the second half than 64-48. 
UMass was ranked No. 1 in the country when it beat Dusquesne by 50 points last month in Pittsburgh. Since then, it has been a difficult time for the Minutemen. 
They needed overtime to beat West Virginia, then downed St. Bonaventure before losing Camby in the victory over St. Joseph. 
Without Camby, UMass lost to George Washington and was trailing Rutgers at the half when that game was suspended because of a student protest. A victory over Southwestern Louisiana was followed Tuesday night by a second loss to George Washington -UMass' first home loss in 42 games. 

Dante Calabria, shown here last season against Notre Dame, helped North Carolina secure its 25th consecutive 20-win season with a 66-39 victory over Clemson last night. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES: Are you looking for that service pro­ject that really makes a difference, and is a lot of fun? Look no fur­ther... 
THE SOPHOMORE CLASS SERVICE PROJECT 
Youth Mentoring at the NE Neighborhood WEDNESDAYS 
AND FRIDAYS 2:30-3:30-4:30 
meet at room 161 or Main Circle Questions?-Brian Tierney x1058 
**...,.******AITENTION*••u**••••u• 
THOSE INTERESTED IN THE CAMPUS CD.............................. The deadline for turning in a tape and band bio has been extended to Monday, February 20 at 5:00 
p.m. Submit entries into the mail­box labeled CAMPUS CD in the SUB Office, 201 LAFortune. Call Ryan at 288-3952 with any ques­tions 
.................CAMPUS CD********* 
Used Texts Cheap!! Check out 
Pandora's Books 233-2342 
NO ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat 
9-3 sundays 
The Lion King 
Fri & Sat Feb 17-18 
$2 Cushing Auditorium 
8/1030 pm 
Come to the Saint Mary's 
Observer Office to place your 
classifieds Monday 2-4, Tuesday 
2:30-4:30, Wednesday 11:30-1:00, 
Thursday 2:30-4:30, and 
Friday 2-4. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: ***BIKE LOCK KEY*** On 
2/3/95 
brand name is "Rhode Gear''. 
-Bill X1862 
CD case FOUND in Nieuwland 
Computer Lab. Call4-1365 to 
claim. 
REWARD OFFERED for KEYS 
lost somewhere between C1 
and the Rock. Please call 
232-1348. 

LOST: A LONG BLACK WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT AT FISHER­WALSH FORMAL LAST FRI. CALL CINDY AT 273-5399 
LOST: Black winter "GAP" cap. Please call x2027 with any info. 
LOST: A NAVY BLUE SPORTS JACKET W/ BROWN BUTTONS AT FISHER-WALSH FORMAL LAST FRIDAY. PLEASE CALL JASON AT X2153 
LOST LIZARD!! LOST LIZARDII I lost a gecko lizard earring, silver, one and a half inches long, sometime on Monday, somewhere on campus. The other lizard of the pair is very lonely. Please call Liz @ 287-7444. 
HELP I I've lost my 18 inch gold necklace with oval-shaped pendant that has the initial "L" inside. It has great sentimental value. If you've found it, please call Liza @ X4991 
FOUND: Woman's wrist watch. On stairs between North dining hall & Flanner, at 9 a.m. wednsday 2/15. Call to identify! Justin at X1765. 
WANTED 
Spring Break! Bahamas Party Cruise 6 Days $2791 Includes 12 Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Spring Break Travell-800-678-6386 
Florida's Spring Break Hotspots I PANAMA CITY OCEANVIEW ROOM WITH KITCHEN $1291 WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights $159! Key West $229! Daytona Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­800-678-6386 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING ­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships of Land-Tour com­panies. World travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.). Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces­sary. For more information call1­206-634-0468 ext. C55843 Need ride to NJ -E. PA for spr. break. $$Kate @2732 
SUMMER JOBS 

ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS 
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS 
ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS 
NEAR LAKE PLACID 
CALL 1-800-786-8373 
Painters, Foremen, and Managers­Call College Pro Painters at 1(800) 346-4649. 
two need ride-MEMPHIS, spr. break,$, x1943 
FOR RENT 
Wanted: 5 students for completely remod­eled home. Close to N.D. large rec. room, washer and dryer, security system. Rent for summer school and/or fall semester. Call NOW 277-0636 
SMALL FURNISHED ROOM FOR 
RENT. WALK TO CAMPUS. 
$150/MO. INCL. UTILITIES. 
287-2159. 
HOMES FOR RENT 
NEAR CAMPUS 
232-2595 

1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR 
CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT 
FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­
6551 

FOR SALE 
CONDO NEAR NOTRE DAME 
Immaculate Condo with the latest 
decor and sharper than new. Call 
Harold Zeltwanger 291-9338 or 
ERA All Star Realty 255-8789. 
One-way air ticket to Boston 
May 13. Male name. $120 
x-1814 

1988 Subaru GL, 54K miles, 5­speed, Power Steering/Brakes, Air, AM/FM Stereo, $3000/BO. x4350. 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 
WALK TO NO! 3 bdrm, 1 bath ranch. New carpet­ing, paint & furnace. Family room plus rec room with bar. $56,000. OPEN SAT., 2/18 FROM 2-4 PM. 1215 N. Twyckenham 
Barb McHugh Coldwell Banker 277-8000,235-3240. 
OFF CAMPUS HOUSING 
Open House 2-4 p.m. Saturday, February 18 and Sunday, February 19, 1995 
Oakhill Condos Corner Edison and State Road 23 
Priced at $54,900-$99,900. The perfect solution for your Notre Dame/St. Mary housing dilemma. Own your own Condo-Home. 1-3 Bedrooms, all Appliances, Fireplace, Pool and Clubhouse. For information call: Coldwell Banker Missy Bornheimer 259-6317/235­3180 Ruth Ann Smith 277-8000/235­3250 
TICKETS 
NEED 1-2 PETTY TIX CALL LISA 2364 
$$$$ Need 4 Marquette GA's Call Ted x3402 $$$$ 
Need MARQUETTE tix-student or GA's. Call Sharon @ 3490. 
PERSONAL 
Ladies of ND/SMC: Sick of the games? SWM seeks SWF for 1 unforgettable nite:Manor Formal(2/24/95). No strings attached. Send resume to: Otis, c/o 222 Morrissey. 
EXPO ROMA 4TH YR STUDENT EXPOSITION @ the Architecture Building 
Feb 17-26 Curious why arkies enjoy talking about their year in Rome? Come experience the Eternal City in an exhibit of student work including sketches, paintings, photographs, sculpture, and architectural draw­ings. 
JONNY & 0-PRIME, 
LEMME AKS YOU HOW IT FEELS TO ROCK THE VOTE LIKE OAT'. 
'DABOYZ 
744 HOURS !!I 
000 The Copy Shop 000 
LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCEIII 
Phone 631-COPY 
TIRED OF READING? 
INFOTAINMENT SUPER-HYPE­
WAY TOO JAMMED UP? 
THEN LISTEN TO WVFI AM 
640 NEWS 
@4:30 EACH SCHOOL DAY. 
HEY YOU! Ready to lose weight for real? I lost over 20 lbs., went from a size 9 to a 3 in under 8 weeks! No diets/drugs/exercise! All-Natural Tablets: guaranteed results! Kelly (800)209-2150 
DESPARATELY NEEDED: Ride to Pittsburgh on March 3rd for weekend. Please help. Call Laurie at x4096 -Thank You! 
SUMMER PROGRAMS IN LON­DON & ROME FOR ND/SMC STU­DENTS TRAVEL IN IRE,SCOT, FR. GER. & SWITZ. COURSES AVAILABLE IN BUEC, ED, HIST, ITALIAN, PSYCH.MEETING IN NO LIBRARY LOUNGE, FEB. 20 AT 6:30PM. STUDENTS, FAC, PIZZA SOCIAL. CALL PROF. A.R. BLACK 284-4460 (OFC) OR 272-3726 (HOME) 
The BRADY'S are back! The 
BRADY'S are back! 
Tom Roland needs a new wardrobe 
JK please-what are your thoughts? 
Garth Brooks or Barenaked Ladies? Doesn't matter, as long as they're playing in Tulsa. 
If you can't see them off-campus because you're underage, come dance to the hot music of 
SABOR LATINO 
Sat. Feb. 18 10:30 pm 
C. S.C. 
OJ music starts at 10 pm 
HOLY CROSS FORMAL HIGHLIGHTS AT C7 "I LIKE YOUR CUFFS" "DO YOU GO TO SAINT MARY'S?" "HEE HEE HEE" SAINT FRANCIS "WHO IS THIS IRWIN CHARAC­TER?" "IT STUCK TO MY TONGUE LIKE A POLE" "IT MUST HAVE BEEN THOSE JELLO SHOTS" "THIS IS JUST UNBELIEVABLE" "IS THAT THE HORNEY GIRL?" "HOW'S THAT CONTRAPTION,MONICA?" "THE MORE YOU SLIT,THE MORE YOU GEr CAB 109 TO THE DINING HALL "EIGHT TO TWENTY BABY!" "AW YEAH ....... SHUT UP" 
Kiddo, 
Wish me luck skiing, hope all went well sorta good on Wed. remember the breaking the legs deal is always an option!! 
-An lllinios Farmer 
SHENANIGANS Annual JPW Concerts Saturday, February 18th 
1:00 pm and 2:30 pm 
Snite Annenberg Auditorium FREE ADMISSION Everyone Welcome 
Juniors bring your parents 
COMING SOON AFROTC Dance-A-Thon Saturday, March 4 8pm-3am proceeds to go to Habitat for Humanity
****"'**************•····················· 

·. ·-·. -. ·-·. •• -. ·.... -.: •. <".; ...--·-:. -~ .......... ,. ­
February 17, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Spring training starts for not so real Yankees 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDEHDALE, Fla. 
On the first day of spring training, all the essential ele­ments were there -players in pinstripes, a manager watching over them and temperatures hovering near 80 degrees with a cool, oeean breeze. 
It was all so perfeet Thursday as the New York Yankees opened camp, but it was all so wrong, too. 
· Baseball was back, but it wasn't the real thing. 
There were 27 players in Yankees uniforms, but they were not the real Yankees. They were low-level minor lea­v;uers and replae.ement players, not the heroes the fans wanted to see on this day usually antici­pated more than any other once the World Series ends. 
The real players were on strike for the 189th straight day, and many of them met with their union head in Orlando. No other formal work­outs were held by the other 27 teams, although pitchers and catchers did l"llport at several other training sites. 
The fans stayed away, too. 
At Fort Lauderdale Stadium, despite the free admission, row upon row of seats were empty. When practice began, fewer than 50 people were there. The attendance topped out at about 75 an hour later. Normally, a couple hundred would turn out for the opening of camp. 
llol dog vendors, souvenir vendors and seeurity guards sat 

When teams report to spring training 
Pitchers/ 

...I~~~.............. <?E:ttct:'l.~.~~ 
Atlanta Bravea Feb. 18 Baltimore Oriole& Feb. 17 Boaton Red Sox Feb. 21 Cellfornla Angels Feb. 17 Chicago Cuba Feb. 20 Chicago White Sox Feb. 18 Cincinnati Reds Feb. 17 Cleveland Indiana Feb. 18 Colorado Rockies 
Feb. 17 
Feb. 17
Detroit Tlgera 
Feb. 18

Florida Marlins 
Feb. 17

Houaton Aatros 
Fsb. 20

Kan-• City Royala 
Fsb. 17

Loa Angelea Dodgera 
f'IJ.1.1...E>9.1J.eo.<l... 

!~.~-~ ·····•········································· 
Milwaukee Brewera
Feb. 22 

Minnesota TWins
Feb. 23 

Montreal Expoa
Feb. 24 

New York Meta
Feb. 22 

New York Vankeea
Feb. 25 

Oakland Athletics
Feb. 22 

Phlladelphle Phillie&
Feb. 22 

Plttaburgh Plrat.a
Feb. 23 

San Diego Padrea
Feb. 22 

San Francisco Olanta
Feb. 22 

Seattle Marinara
Feb. 23 

St. Louis Cardinals
Feb. 22 

Texaa Rang•r•
Feb. 23 

Toronto Blue Jaya
Feb. 22 

Pitchers/ catcher-s Ful.l squad 
Feb. 21 Feb. 26 
Feb. 20 
Feb. 25 Feb. 19 
Feb. 21 Feb. 17 
Feb. 22 Feb. 16 
Feb. 21 Feb. 19 
Feb. 20 Feb. 17 
Feb. 22 Feb. 18 
Feb. 22 Feb. 20 
Feb. 23 Feb. 16 
Feb. 21 Feb. 16 
Feb. 21 Feb. 16 
Feb. 21 Feb. 17 
Fsb. 17 Feb. 19 
Feb. 19 
around talking to each other. Nobody asked the players for autographs because practically nobody had heard of any of these guys. 
The manager and coaches went through the motions, watching players with far infe­rior skills. 
The pitchers had about 30 tosses apiece. No curveballs 
were allowed. 

"We told them just to throw fastballs. We don't want any­body showing up hurt tomor­row," manager Buck Showalter said. 
The batting also was substan­dard. During 20 minutes of bat­ting practice, not a single ball was hit to the outfield fence or over it. 
AP/Ed De Gase.-o 
"A lot of these guys probably haven't swung wooden bats in years,' Showalter said when asked if aluminum bats might have helped. 
"We had some broken bats out there, but that was off our batting practiee pitchers. Our regular players break bats, too, but they're hitting against Melido Perez and Steve Howe," Showalter said. 
The workout lasted about 2 1­2 hours, and Showalter, the coaches and trainers left after­ward to attend the union meet­ing in Orlando. 
"I've certainly listened to everything the ownership side has had to say, and I'm going to listen to everything the players' union has to say." 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner also came to camp and used the opportunity to call for an immediate resumption of negotiations with some "new faces at the bar­gaining table." 
The two sides haven't met together since spurning President Clinton's demand for a settlement earlier this month at the White Bouse. Acting commissioner Bud Selig and union head Donald Fehr spent three of the past five days testi­fying before Congress, which is contemplating legislation that would bring an end to the strike. 
"I'm a little embarrassed for the fans that we couldn't get this settled after seven months or so," Steinbrenner said. "We haven't lost the fans, but some day in the not too distant future we may." 
The replacement players, meanwhile, were enjoying themselves. 
Almost  none  of those  at  
Yankees  camp  have  major  
league  - or even Triple A ­ 

experience, but they were wearing real Yankees pants, real Yankees caps and real Yankees practice blues. 



''ON THE CONCOURSE'' JACC 
WELCOMES PARENTS TO JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND!!!! 
·­

STOP BY THE VARSITY SHOP TO SEE OUR NEW SPRING LINE 
JPW HOURS: FRIDAY 9:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. SATURDAY 9:00 a.m. to 5:00p.m. ­SUNDAY 8:00a.m. to 4:00p.m. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 17, 1995 
•NBA 

Knicks torch Heat, led by Ewing and Mason 
Associated Press 
Patrick Ewing scored 13 of his 22 points in the decisive second quarter, and Anthony Mason added 22 points and 14 rebounds Thursday night to lead the New York Knicks to a 96-87 victory over the Miami Heat. The victory was the Knicks' lOth in their last 13 road games. 
The loss was the first in two games for Miami's new coach, Alvin Gentry, who took over for the fired Kevin Loughery prior to Tuesday's 112-99 victory over Milwaukee. The teams meet again Friday night in New York. After getting blanked in a foul-plagued first quarter. Ewing, who had 12 rebounds, outscored the Heat 13-11 in New York's 28-11 second quar­ter. helping the Knicks to a 50­39 lead at halftime. 
Miami made just five of 23 shots in the quarter for 21.7 percent, leading to a season­low output for a quarter. 
Derek Harper, who scored 11 points in the first quarter, fin­ished with 20 for New York. John Starks scored just six points and aggravated a left shoulder strain. 

Mason, who made nine of 10 shots, led the Knicks reserves, who outscored their Heat coun­terparts 33-6. 
For the Heat, Glen Rice scored 15 of his 33 points in the third quarter, slicing Miami's deficit to 71-64. Kevin Willis added 20 points and 16 rebounds. Willis scored six straight points to cut New York's lead to 78-72, but after Anthony Bonner was ejected for committing a flagrant foul on Matt Geiger, Herbert Davis nailed a jumper and Starks led a fast break that Mason con­verted into a three-point play for an 85-72 Knicks lead with 
5:50 remaining. 
Rockets 105, Hornets 89 
Hakeen Olajuwon scored 29 points and grabbed 14 re­bounds as the Houston Rockets 
Welcome Junior Parents I 
Come relax with great food & fun atmosphere at 

·Breakfast served all day ·Lunch ·Dinner 
·Or a snack ANYTIME 
Just Minutes from Campus 
OPEN 24 HOURS 1710 N. Ironwood 


277-7400 


celebrated the arrival of Clyde Drexler with a 105-89 victory over the Charlotte Hornets on Thursday night. 
With a smile on his face, Drexler got into the starting lineup to begin the third quar­ter, missing his first two shots before sinking a 3-pointer at the 8:37 mark. Already ener­gized by the prospect of Drexler's play, the Rockets hit 17 of 26 shots in the period for 41 points and an 85-64 lead. 
Charlotte lost another half­game of its lead in the Central Division. Second-place Cleveland now trails by a game, and third-place Indiana trails by two games. The Hornets have lost both games they've played since the All-Star break. 
Drexler sat out the last six minutes of the fourth period, but by then, the Rockets were settling on a final margin as they beat Charlotte for the 15th time in 17 meetings. Drexler finished with eight points, five rebounds, two assists and two turnovers. 
Olajuwon went 14-for-23 and added 14 rebounds. Kenny Smith had 19 points. Mario Elie got 12, and Breaux and Chucky Brown had 11 each. 







~MOVIES 10 
Featuring ..... 
Hollywood's 
Newest Releases at Great Prices!!!! 
The Largest Theatre Complex In The Mishawaka & South Bend Area 

U.S. 20 

Mishawaka 

1994-95 PAUL M. AND BARBARA HENKELS 
VISITING SCHOLARS SERIES 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS ~~ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Masculinity in the 1990s 
co-sponsored by: Departments of American Studies, Anthropology, Government, and Sociology; Concentration in Gender Studies; Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies; Multicultural Executive Council 
All lectures will be held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium at 4:00 p.m. 
Monday, Feb. 20 
Dr. Ann Robbins 
Population Council Center for Biomedical Research, New York City 
"Biology and Masculinity" 
For more information: The Henkels Visiting Scholars Series is a program of the College of Arts and Letters, Prof Joan Aldous University of Notre Dame, and is made possible by a generous endoTinnent provided by Department of Sociology Paul M. and Barbara Henkels. 
University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
(219) 631-5281 & College of Arts and Letters -University of Notre Dame 
Friday, February 17, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Club Registration packets may now be picked up at either the Office of Student Activities or the Club Coordination Council 



Deadline to turn in: March 9,1995 
*Any packets received after this date will not be considered for funding. 
-







SUMMER SCHOOL FOR PEOPLE ON THEIR WAY TO THE TOP. 
If you didn't sign up for ROTC as a By the time you have graduated from freshman or sophomore, you can still college, you'll have the credentials of catch up to your classmates by 
an A:rmy officer. You'll also have attending A:rmy ROTC Camp Chal­the self-confidence and discipline lenge, a paid six-week summer it takes to succeed in college and 
course in leadership training. beyond. 
ARMY ROTC 
m SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CD TUE. 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
CI MA AT THE SNITE 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45 
page 16 
• 


Violence escalating in the United Kingdom 
By CLARE NULIJS been implicate(} in match-fiX­
Associated Press ing scandals in Malaysia and 
Singapore. 
ZURICH. Switzerland•· -Two fans were killed at 
FlFA president Joao gamesin Italy and Fral)ce. Havelange on Thursday angrl• _, Manchester United f{)r­ly brushed aside critiCism that ward Eric Cantona was sus­soccer's governing bc:>dy is do• pended for ·the restof the sea­ing too little to combat tbe vlo~ s()n after be jumped into a lence and scandal~ ··· cf(>wd hi attack. an ahu!l1ve 
Havelange . . · pl~nte4 >sp~ctatorlast motltlj:· :.· r Wednesday night's ra:mpage at·... ''Don;\. blam~ ·the st;>cial the Ireland-England gamein · prl)bleJnS of a countryon soc­Dublin on local security and cer,'' Havelange sahL "The said the hooliganism sh{)Qld national federati(:)ns are not stop England from being responsible for what happen host to the 1996 European on the pitch, but in the tar-Championship. races it is up to the security 
"Because of a localized forces or police." problem which should be dealt The violence in Dublin with by local authorities, stopped an English national England does not deserve to team game for the first time 
have a sporting right with· ever. English fans broke wood-, 
drawn," he said. en seats and hurled them at 
"We reject any responsibily the Irish spectartors beneath 
of FIFA in such incidents them Wednesday night, fore-
because violence is not in foot• ing officials to stop the exhibi­
ball, violence is in society," tion match after 28 minutes. 
FIFA general secretary Sepp Police arrested about 40 
Blatter said. "We through the people Jrom England and 
national associations, t}le three from Ireland, and 40 
clubs. the players and the con~ people were treated at a }los­
federations, we are making a pital for various i{ljuries, in 
lot of educational work on fair one caso a fractured skull. An 
play ·and instructions~ But 'We Irish man in .his· 60s died of a 
cannot control the crowd/~ !iii> he~ attack. while lC:JaVing the 
Since last summet~s World stadium, although police said 
Cup in the United States; he ~ellth was riot Ahought to 
-about 9Q play~r~:;;b.~X~ . <bef~lat~dwtb.evitJlenc(:l;
~~·:<·:· . ;;:%? 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Victory 
continued from page 20 
when the Vikings went on a 16­8 run. Notre Dame's lead remained between five and seven points until a flurry of Cleveland State scoring in the last minute of the game tied the score. 
The lead changed hands often in the extra frame, but two baskets by Gaither put the Irish ahead for good. Stacy Fields hit two free throws with just seconds on the clock for the final margin of victory. 
Gaither scored over 30 points for the second time this season, the first also coming against Cleveland State. She also pulled down a career high 16 rebounds. 
Freshman Mollie Peirick scored a career-high 20 points and dished out nine assists. Letitia Bowen poured in 18 points, scoring in double fig­ures for the sixth straight game. 
"We didn't get much help from our bench," said McGraw. "The starters got tired down the stretch which allowed Cleveland State to get some easy baskets." 
Notre Dame remains unde­
feated in MCC play, with a 15-7 
overall mark. The Irish travel 
to Philadelphia Saturday to 
take on LaSalle. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service 


-$1.00 
• Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
[219) 232-8444 

Junior Stacy Fields hit the clinching free throws in last night's 83·79 overtime victory at Cleveland State. 
Friday, February 17, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS 
page 17 

• LACROSSE 
•NFL 

Sixteenth-ranked Irish to open 
season with scrimmage Saturday Howard drafted by Jaguars 
By FRED GOODALL 
Associated Press 

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 
One team's disappointment is 
another's hope. Such was the 
case in the NFL expansion 
draft, which brought Desmond 
Howard to the Jacksonville 
Jaguars. 

"Hopefully his best years are 
in front of him," coach Tom 
Coughlin said after the 1991 
Heisman Trophy winner was 
the 55th player selected from a 
pool of talent left unprotected 
by the 28 existing teams. 
The Jaguars were attracted 
to Howard's speed and big-play 
capability. He was a major dis­
appointment for 2 1/2 years 
with the Washington Redskins, 
but made strides the last half of 
1994 and finished with 40 re­
ceptions for 727 yards and five 
touchdowns -all career highs. 
In his last six games, the one­
time Michigan star averaged 
19.9 yards per catch on 24 re­ceptions and scored two TDs ­one on an 81-yard play that was the longest of his career. 
Howard, 24, expected to re­turn to Washington next season and become the primary target for Heath Shuler, who strug­gled as a rookie last season be­fore showing steady improve­ment in the closing weeks. 
The Redskins, mindful of Howard's $1.73 million salary cap number. left him unpro­tected. But the 5-foot-9, 180­pound wide receiver doesn't feel Washington gave up on him. 
"They knew the risk involved ... I was looking foward to going back to D.C. with a more-ma­ture Heath and picking up where we left off," said Howard, who had 66 catches for 1,033 yards and scored eight TDs in three seasons in Washington. 
"But realistically, who has an idea of what their future's going to be?" he added. "You always have an idea, but noth­ing's guaranteed." 
Howard was the 28th of 31 players selected by Jacksonville, which spent about $15.5 million on its picks, com­pared to the $9 million in con­tracts taken on by the Carolina Panthers. 
Five of Jacksonville's selec­tions have salary cap numbers exceeding $1 million, including 
By DAVID TREACY 
Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame Lacrosse team opens its 1995 season this Saturday in the Loftus Sports Center with a scrimmage against Denison. The Irish, ranked 16th in the country in the pre-season, face the Divi­sion Ill learn in an effort to check out their fundamentals and execution. 
This scrimmage should prove to be an opportunity for the team to make sure they are ready to face a tough Penn State team, which will open the regular season for them on February 26th. 
However, Denison may prove to be a small speed bump for the Irish, who face seven top twenty-five teams on the '95 schedule. 


C~O?ST•CkS 
Chinese Fast Food 
Bo..-ed with the diVliV\g hall food? Ti..-ed of o..-de..-iV\9 pizza? T..-y somethiV\g diffe..-eV\t­t-lave C~O?STICKSdelive..-ed to yo~Af" do..-m 
525 N. Eddy St. 232~11 
:·, 
South Be~n~~d~!'.!I~N~£.;;z.i&S&::~z..iki~,1i<i&it@A:J;;ItlFt£t 
Mon-Th~.-~,. 5 11a.m.-9p.m. Fl"i & Sat 11a.m.-10p.m. 

r·-----c-~o?er.~c-~-s-----i-----c;o?e7)"c-~s-----l 
2 EGG ROLLS :CRABMEAT WON TON ! 


$1.49 $1.49 
Reg. $1.98 Reg. $1.98 
Limit 2 • With Coupon Only • May Not Be Combined With Any Olhor OIIOf'o Explrel 12·15-95 

! 

-----;~-:i·.~;~~~-~--------;~-=~-~~i==-=h=~~=-f=~-=~~-~~:-~~d=~-;~~-----· 
top pick Steve Beuerlein, who is 
due to make a little more than 
$2 million next season. 
The Jaguars hope to trim 
about $4 million from the 
salaries of the expansion picks 
to free more money for the 
free-agent signing period that 
begins Friday. 
Howard, who has the second­highest "cap" number on the roster, was non-commital about his willingness to renegotiate a lower salary. 
"That's an issue you have to take up with my attorney," he said. 
The wide receiver is more certain about what he can do for the Jaguars, who hope to build an aggressive offense around Beuerlein, the former Raiders, Cowboys and Cardinals quarterback. 

Sunday, February 26 Heartland Restaurant 222 S. Michigan Street South Bend, Indiana 4:30-9:30p.m. 
$15 per person-$25 per couple 
Includes: Dinner, entertainment and surprises 
··~,r· ···;tU 
'BENGAL BOUTS -Training occurs daily at 4:00pm at the JACC. Anyone interested should contact Jeff Goddard at 287-8041. 
CLIMBING WALL SCHEDULE 
• The climbing wall is now open for use. The hours will be Sun­days 2:00-5:00 and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00­lO:OO.iNThe climbing wall is lo­cated 'in the Rockne Memorial and IIJlYOne interested in using it must attend an orientation s(:)ssion. For more info call R~eSpotts at 1-6100. 
CLIMBING WALL ORIENTA· TJON SUSSlON-,;~ An orientation sessio,j will be held on Sunday. 
Auction items include: 
-ti: l'ootball Dream: Spend game day with Notre Dame players and coaches at the 1995 home game of your choice -ti: Gourmet diDDer for siz with Coach Lou Boltz at the Summit Club -ti: Al'ootballl'antasy: Limo ride, four Northwestern ticket~ and dinner at the Morris Inn -ti: Two airliDe tickets courtesy of Anthony Travel -ti: Tom Petty concert tickets, limo ride and dinner -ti: Limited edition autographed lithograph album covers: Including the Rolling Stones "Sticky Fingers" and The Beatles "Abbey Road" -ti: ''Coach" autographed script and cast picture -ti: Stanley Coveleski autographed item and program -ti: Autographed items from: Lou Holtz, John MacLeod, Pat Eilers, Andy Heck, Chris Zorich, Ken Griffey Jr., Laphonso Ellis, Troy Aikman, Wayne Gretzky, . Michael Jordan, Marshall Faulk, joe Montana, Rocket Ismail, Arnold Palmer, Bobby Kntght and many more! -ti: -ti: -ti: 
lickets available from The Center for the Homeless at (219) 282·8700 
~'t attel«t7Contact The Center for the Homeless to arrange for aProxy Bidder. 
.. 
Feb. 19 at 12:30 pm at the Rockne Memorial. 1f interest­ed, call RecSports at 1·6100 to sign up. Spaces are limited. 
VARSITY LACROSSE-A sta­tistician is needed for men's varsity lacrosse games. Call Coach Coorigan at 1-5108. Lacrosse experience necessary. 
INTERHALL LACROSSE­The RecSports office is offering interhall lacrosse with the deadline being February 23rd. The mandatory captains' meet­ing will be at 5:00 pm in the JACC auditorium on the same date. Any questions please call 
1·6100. . 
-


-~--.....,.....--~--.... .... .--~ 
Fordha01 
continued from page 20 
Without its leading scorer, Butler bombed Notre Dame by 16 just two nights ago. And that came in the wake of two of the worst losses in Irish history-a 37-point defeat against UCLA and a 39-point loss to Kentucky. 
Resilience had been a trade­mark of the Irish this season. They repeatedly bounced back from tough defeats, stringing together a few victories in a row to stay comfortably above . 500 
But Wednesday's loss to Butler marked the first time that Notre Dame had lost two games in a row this season. 
third straight could be disas­trous. 
Junior Sherri Vitale and the Irish women's tennis team will face a tough test Saturday when Alabama visits the Eck Pavilion. 
Notre Dame has been woeful away from home this season, winning just two of 11 games away from the friendly Joyce Center. 
Fordham (8-14) doesn't pose the stiffest road test of the sea­son, but the Rams could still cause problems for the reeling Irish. 
Forward Ryan Hunter leads Fordham with 14.2 points per game and John Henry adds 10.7. 
Ryan Hoover, Notre Dame's second-leading scorer with 10 points per game, will likely re­turn to the lineup Saturday af­ter missing the Butler game with an ankle injury . 
lll~f~Yf~J..I~ 'I,HI~ f)liSl~ll\1J~Il 
The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February .17, 1995 

Irish look to stop Tide 
By TIM SHERMAN Crimson Tide. Assistant Sports Editor "Alabama is a very solid team," Louderback noted. "Their #2 and #3 
The 15th ranked Notre Dame 
singles players are both ranked in the 

women's tennis team will be one of the 
top 80." many events on this Junior Parents 
That means junior Holyn Lord and 

Weekend's slate of Irish athletic events 
senior captain Laura Scwab will have 

with a match against top thirty 
their work cut out for them. 

Alabama at 11 am on Saturday in the 
"IIolyn and Laura have played well 

Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
for us," Louderback said. "We need 

"This is a very big weekend," Irish 
to continue to do so." 

coach Jey Louderback said. "It will be 
Lord, along with classmates Wendy

good for the parents to actually see a 
Crabtree, Sherri Vitale, and Meredith 

match." 
Siegfired will have the added pressure

It will also be good for the Irish to 
of playing in front of their parents and 

face another ranked team. Alabama 
not getting caught up in the hectic 

enters the match coming off a key win 
weekend. 

over Miami (Fla.) and will definitley be 
To help alleviate some off the pres­

a challenge for the 3-3 Irish. 
sure, Louderback made a schedule 

"They are just another solid oppo­
change from past years.

nent for us," Louderback said. 
"In the past, we've played two or 

"Starting with Duke (three matches 
three matches," Louderback 

ago), we face nine straight teams 
explained. "Maybe we haven't done as 

ranked in the top thirty. It is tough 
well as we should have. Hopefully this 

right now, but I think it is good in the 
year with just one match we should do 

long run." 
better." 

But for now, the focus is on the 
junior Parents Weekend 
(C®ID(j~!l'ltb'l 
featuring: 

_,
enan1sans 

notre Dame's Sing1ng and Dancing Ensemble 
When: Saturday, February 18th 1:OOpm and 2:30pm Where: Annenberg Auditorium 
: 3 WEEKS UNLIMITED TANNING :
Snite Museum 
I BED, BOOTH & SUN CAPSULE I : $30,00 :
W/THISCOUPON
FREE ADMISSION!!! 
Juniors are encouraged to bring 
L---------------~ 
their arents! 

:• . . . then let 
j your parents place to shop ... j SHOW OFF. 
-
MOM 
Two Convenient Locations Close to Campus! 
South Bend -University Commons 
(across from University Park Mall) 
Phone 272-7653 Mishawaka -Grape and McKinley 
(located near Kmart) 
Phone 256-9656 

~Countrg j{arvester Presents 





IRISH.VILLAGE 
Authentic wood replicas of Notre Dame Buildings 



The Village is Growing! 
We are Pleased to Announce Additions to our Collection of Notre Dame Buildings 
Welcome Junior Parents! 10%off all IRISH VILLAGE Buildings. Friday and Saturday only. Browse among our other unique handcrafted items. Visit us in the lower level of LaFortune Student Center! 631-6714 


•Walsh •Dillon 
•Howard 
Hall 

•Morrissey 
Manor 

•Law 
School 

•School 
of Architecture 


[(flf1AUYUawsFJJ 
mmucru 
71/R IJNIVRil.WTY ltl MlTRR /JMf/{ 
---------------~ 

Friday, Febraury 17, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
WE'RE. SO UNDEF\­5TAFFED TI-\AT THE. 
PP-OJE..C.T IS 5IX WEE..K.5 BEI-\IND 5tHEDULE.. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 3t One who stoops 51 Nonmainstream 
to conquer group t Karate blow 34 Part 2 of the 60 Spare item 5 O'Neill specialty quip at Clemson player 
to Suffer 36 Isle of-, &2 What the consequences England genouillere t3 Coleridge poem 31 "Werewolf of protects t4 Tyr, Balder, etc. London" star, t 5 Magic 1935 
DOWN
Incantation 40 Erect te Start of a quip 4t Tickle t Biker's aid tl Amigo 42 Restraint 2 Round dance 20 Arp art 44 Curricula vitae 
3 Amphitheater 4 Darling 
at Boxer Griffith 47 Startling 
51992

22 Hard to corner success 
lrons-Binoche
48 Pass over 

23 Arrogates 
film 25 Strauss opera 
48 Factory 
e Start of a 
so Emblem of

21 Phylum marksman's subdivision orders
sovereignty 
53 End of the quip

21 Botanist's angle 7 One of the 
57 Sunday wrap Ocean ides Liaisons" star 58 Delete 8 Wire measure 1 Path of a pass ------------to Feast of Lots 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE tt Hock ~_,.,...,~~,..., t2 Approvals -==+:~+=i'=+::-1 ts Tale-spinning 
uncle ~:+:-'-F.+.~ t7 Port on the ljsselmeer t8 Time sharer, e.g. aaBig band drummer 
Cozy­23Viva voce 24 Bratty talk 25 Reasoning 
1':-+:+:'-E-1 28 Oksana Baiul leap -=+::+:-+=t-:+.:..r.:-1 27 Roman historian 
30 "Dangerous 


SCOTT ADAMS 
28Computer knockoff 30 Without couth 3t Strip 32 Time can do it 33 Gothic governess 35 Loser at EIAiamein 36 Model binder 37 Do LSD 4t "City Without Walls" poet 42 Thunderclap 

1-\E WI\NTS DAILY 
STATUS REPORTS UNTIL THE. STIUATION 
IMPROVES. 

\_ 

43 Basketball 49 Unpartnered 
coach Adolph 50 Social reformer 44 Plot again Robert 45 Varnish 
5t Camptown ingredient 
activity 52 "PC World" rival 
46 Silent screen slinker 54 Nevertheless 
55 Title for Nehru $10,000 bill 56"Just-" 47 Portrait on a 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900·420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 


WEDNESDAY, FEB. 22 :LION KING 
-

-r:r;a,cy Ch;a..p::.:s1;a..ll1 
•



is coming to Notre Dame!! 
• Tickets go on sale Wednesday, Feb. 22
• 
•
• THE 
$2 Tickets 

8:00 PM  STEPAN CENTER  :  Friday & Saturday  
$3 for students  $5 general admission :  8:00 & 10:30 PM  
but We n;niTP-1rnP  Tickets available at LaFortune Info. Desk •  

. fun!! Today ·is your · Huh, huh, huh, ..cool! :Cushing Auditorium ­
last chance to apply.  -.  Brought to you by:  :rm tellin' ya', you'll  
Do it by 5:00 PM or  ·:student Government  Student Activities:impress the women if  
else!  .  :  Student Union Board  :take them to see this movie!  

It I t 
.' ...... " ............... --.. ., . . . ­





SPORTS 
page 20 
Friday, February 17, 1995 





• TRACK &fiElD 

Irish home for dual meet 
Marquette, Western Michigan to visit Loftus on Saturday 
Special to the Observer 

The Fighting Irish men's and women's track and field teams will welcome the Golden Eagles of Marquette and the Broncos of Western Michigan to the Loftus Sports Center for a double dual meet this Saturday. Field Events begin at noon while running events are scheduled to kick off at 1:00pm with the running of the women's 800 meters. 
The Marquette/W. Michigan meet will serve as a tune-up for the Irish as they look to the Alex Wilson Invitational a week from Saturday to conclude the indoor portion of the 1995 season. 
The men's squad through three events this season has shown the consistency in the distance events that head coach Joe Piane has come to count on and received an injection of enthusiasm in the sprint events with the addition of freshmen Errol Williams and Allan Rossum. 
Williams has brought home two indi­vidual titles in the 55 high hurdles in his first three collegiate meets, winning the Midwestern Collegiate Conference cham­pionships with a 7.43 second time and bringing home the Central Collegiate Championship from Ann Arbor, Mich., a week ago. 
The ever-improving women's program comes into the double dual meet after finishing fourth at the Michigan State Invitational a week ago. It was a record­setting day for the Fighting Irish with two school records falling in East Lansing. 


of note... 
.... 65th Annual Bengal Bouts 
The men's and women's water 

Tickets for the February 26-March 4 Bengal 
polo teams will be in action 

Bouts are on sale at the JACC ticket office. 
tonight and Saturday afternoon at 

Student season tickets are only eight dollars. 
the Rolf's Aquatic Center. 






