
Friday, April 28, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 130 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Trustee gift funds new health, science building 
By EDWARD IMBUS 
Associate News Editor 
The University is planning to construct a new building for aquatic biology research and the South Bend Center for Medical Education, thanks to a $5 million dollar gift by 1951 alumnus Bernard "Jerry" Hank Jr. 
The new Hank Hall of Envi­ronmental and Health Sciences will hold primarily laboratories for research and "some class­rooms," according to Dean of the College of Science Francis Castellino, whose state-of -the­art design he hopes will draw excellent biology faculty. 
"Having world class facilities will allow us the attract a world class faculty ... In many ways, the quality of facilities mirrors the quality of the faculty you can hire." 
Hank, who is also a trustee and fellow of Notre Dame, is a longtime benefactor of the Uni­versity, especially in the area of aquatic biology, according to Richard Conklin, the associate vice president of University Re­lations, by funding Notre Dame's Environmental Re­search Center at Lambda Lakes, Wisconsin. 
"Mr. Hank has an interest in aquatic biology," Conklin said, "and (the University) wants to develop research expertise in areas we can make a signifi­cant contribution." He said that it was primarily because of the Environmental Research Center that Notre Dame believes that aquatic biology is one of those areas. 
Preliminary plans have placed Hank Hall at the south end of the Galvin Life Sciences Building, which will keep the biology department in the same area and also unify the depart­ment with the Center for Medi­cal Education, which is now housed in Haggar Hall, which Castellino courteously termed as "remote" from the rest of the biology department. 
Placing the Center in biology facilities is planned, according to Castellino, because of the joint M.D./Ph.D. program be­tween Indiana University, which provides the medical de­gree and the Center, and Notre Dame, which provides the doc­torate as well as most of the faculty for the Center. 
"This (the new building) will help foster the relationship be­tween Indiana University and Notre Dame, which is a really unique one because it is be­tween a private and public institution," he said. "There may be another, but I couldn't 
see BUILDING I page 8 

Walt Collins diligently reviews his work at his desk during his final days as editor of Notre Dame Magazine. Collins, who has been with the magazine for twelve years, will resign on June 30. 
Collins: A legend in Birkenstocks 
By DAVE RING 
Assistant News Editor 
The typical editor has a per­sonality that would make Mike Ditka cringe. Stress, coffee and a Type-A personality all help drive the editor and his or her publication to either success or burnout. 
So how does a Birkenstock­wearing, "laid back guy" do in the dog-eat-dog world? 
Very nicely, thank you. 
Walton Collins, class of '51, will retire on June 30 from his position as editor of Notre Dame Magazine. Collins has been editor of the magazine since 1983, and his twelve year tenure at the head of one of the country's finest university magazines has been just that­one of the finest. 
"With Walt Collins' retire­ment, Notre Dame is losing not only our own magazine editor, but also the best university magazine editor in the nation," said William Sexton, vice-pres­ident for university relations. 
Collins believes the magazine "was very, very good" when he assumed the position of editor. Yet all the same-and justifi-

Temple takes over 
By CAROLYN WILKENS News Writer 
It's a busy time of the year at the otl'ice of Notre Dame Maga­zine. There is a new issue on the press, meetings galore, and a new man in charge come July; his name is Kerry Tem· ple, class of'74. 
As next editor of Notre Dame Magazine, Temple will follow such talents as Walter Collins and Ronald Parent, the maga­zine's founder. Well into it's twenty·third year, the maga­zine has written a success story of its own and earned 
see TEMPLE/ page 6 
ably-he likes "to think it's bet­ter now." While Collins does feel the magazine has "evolved," he is quick to add that there have really been "no radical changes in the maga­zine" during his time there. 
see COLLINS I page 4 
Security responds to attack 
By LIZ FORAN 
Associare News Ediror 

A South Bend woman re­ported that she was raped by on the Notre Dame campus early yesterday morning, ac­cordig to Rex Rakow, director of Notre Dame Security. 
At about 12:40 a.m. as a su­pervisor at the Notre Dame Support Services was leaving the building, a woman exited a car and ran toward him, saying that she had been raped. 
According to Hakow, Security was notified and stopped the vehicle on the drive to Saint Mary's off of U.S. 31. The two men in the vehicle, both in their late 30's and from Niles, Mich., were taken to the Secu­rity Building and interviewed. 
Rakow said that the incident had begun in South Bend when the woman had met the two men. They ended up in the parking lot on campus, where the alleged incident had taken place. Security released the men after consultation with the South Bend Police. 


Moving '95: Tips you need to pack with speed 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Associarc News Ediror 
The lofts are down, and the posters are off the wall. You've finally decided which dorm room items are going into hall storage and which are going home. You've even figured out how you're shipping your pack­ages. All that's left to do is pack the boxes. 
As mundane as packing may sound, following a couple of hints will ensure that your package arrives home safely and quickly, according to Rose Horak, owner of the Country Harvester, a store located in the basement of LaFortune that offers UPS shipping service. 

Before bringing a box in for shipping, make sure that it is sturdy and properly secured. 
e to , SMC Tostal has been rescheduled 


UPS guidelines recommend that boxes be cushioned with mater­ial such as Styrofoam chips or bubble wrap, rather than crum­pled newspaper. 
"Styrofoam chips are more resilient and have more pack­ing power," Horak said. "Crumpled newspaper doesn't have the cushioning effect that the chips do." 
The layer of chips should be two inches deep along the top, bottom, and all four sides of the box. Packing clothing with heavier items such as books adds extra cushioning, she said. 
Closing the box securely is also vital to protecting its con­tents, and choosing the right tape is important. Clear plastic tape is more effective than 
UPS will also ship suitcases, trunks, crates and duffel bags, provided that they are locked. 
Cartons only require one address label, Horak said. UPS arranges the boxes in its trucks so that the labels are showing on one side, so any additional labels are unnecessary. However, legibility is essential, she added, and the label should include the complete address of the box's destination. 
In the event that a package is lost or damaged, UPS insures packages that have a declared value of less than $100 free of charge. Additional insurance can be purchased at 40 cents per $100 of increased value. 
"Be sure to insure valuables for their total worth," Horak said. "With all colleges ending their school year in the next couple of weeks, this is a high volume time for UPS. The chances are greater that some­thing could happen." 
If a package shipped via UPS 
_L Checklist for 

~ No string Good Packing 
Items
wrapped seperately 
Adequate cushioning material 
Strong tape de~ig~ed for shtppmg 
~ .
A smgle 
address label 
" 
..·A clear, com­
~
.· plete delivery 
· · address 
:·;:.> . 
~Aclear com­
plete r~tum 
adress 

masking, duct or electrical
for Monday. . 

tape, Horak said. see MOVING I page 6 
page2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, April 28, 1995 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


Justice will prevail 
"Justice will prevail" were the words of President Clinton last Saturday at a memorial service for those killed in the bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City. Justice will prevail. 

Justice should prevail.  Sarah Cashore  
The problem is that the  Assistant Accent Editor  
"justice" to which  

Clinton is referring involves the execution of those persons responsible for this heinous crime. Death is to be compounded by death. 
In the wake of such a senseless and dev­astating event, the rage and vengeance felt by many, particularly the friends and relatives of the innocent victims in Oklahoma City, is com­pletely understandable. The hatred of the per­petrators of such an indefensible crime is itself unfathomable, but should such hatred be reciprocated by hatred of equal virulence? And should our government explicitly encour­age this type of reciprocation? 
Hatred begets hatred. Shortly after the bombing, an Arab-American man was de­tained in London because authorities sus­pected, mistakenly, that he might have had some connection to the bombing. 
Learning of this man's suspected in­volvement, angry citizens seized upon it as an opportunity for retribution. Singling out an Arab-American woman living in Oklahoma City, a group of people proceeded to throw stones at the woman's house. The woman, who was seven months pregnant, sought refuge in an inner room of her house. She had begun to bleed vaginally, but, because she feared the anger and hatred consuming the group of men and women who were now attacking her home, she remained inside for several hours. By the time she was brought to the hospital, it was too late to save her baby. Another life was senselessly lost. 
An obviously and major distinction needs to be made between the people responsible for the bombing of the federal building, the vic­tims of the actual tragedy, and the other vic­tims like this unborn child. The bombers in­tentionally sought to take lives of those in the federal building and to create mass terror and destruction. Those who are responsible for this tragedy should be brought to justice for their actions, whatever their motivations. No one else needs to be senselessly murdered. 
The choice of such a site such as the Okla­homa City federal building and the decision to detonate the bomb at a time when it was cer­tain that many people would be in the build­ing make the crime even more reprehensible. Justice should prevail. 
However. will any problems be solved by executing those found guilty of this crime? Will executing the people involved end the cycle of hatred and violence? Should death be repaid with death? What would be the pur­pose? 
Hatred is already running rampant in America. The horror of this very crime rein­forces that. Do we need to perpetuate and extend this hatred? Have we become, or have we always been a society which believes in an :'an eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth" justice? Hatred begets hatred, and violence will beget violence. Capital punishment is just an exten­sion of this hatred and violence. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TmHtY's SrAFF  
News  Production  
Kristi Kolski  Michelle Marcotte  
Mark Huffman  Lab Tech  
Sports  Nicky Batie!  
Man Casey  Accent  
Abby May  Andrea Jordan  
Graphics  
Raben Bollman  


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday eoocept during· exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 

Pipeline blows up in Russian far north 

MOSCOW 
A major gas pipeline blew up in a remote wooded region in the Russian far north on Thursday, belching a huge pillar of flames skyward in the latest breakdown in Russia's decaying oil and gas network. 
No injuries were reported in the explosion, which scorched an estimated 12 acres of thick forest in the same Komi republic where a massive oil spill from leak­ing pipes occurred last year. 
A Japan Air Lines pilot and his passengers spotted the huge fireball as they passed over the area en route to Tokyo from Frankfurt, Germany. "It was as if the sun was climbing upward," one passenger said. 
Russian officials, who in the past have tried to cover up such accidents, downplayed the blast. 
A spokesman for Gazprom, the state gas monopoly, re­jected the pilot's description of a fireball five miles high and said it reached no more than 60 feet. 
But an employee for Severgazprom, the Gazprom unit that operates the pipeline, described a big explosion. "Everything shook," Lyudmila Nikitseva, a duty officer at Severgazprom, told The Associated Press by telephone. "Then we saw a great fire against the dark sky. It was terrible." 
Windows shook in Ukhta, 10 miles north of the blast, and frightened residents rushed into the streets when they heard the explosion shortly after 2 a.m. 
Dole mirrors Clinton in mourning 
WASHINGTON 
The Oklahoma City tragedy has illu­minated the leadership styles of several Republican presidential candidates and hinted at how they might guide the nation in a time of crisis. President Clinton set a standard for filling the complex role demanded of chief execu­tives in such a circumst "The basic strategy ought to be to say good things 


about his performance and to join in the national grief," said Princeton political scientist Fred Greenstein. Perhaps because he is accustomed to a national role, Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R-Kan., has come clos­est to that response. Other GOP candidates "have shown a striking lack of presidential style," said Ronald Heifetz, a political leadership specialist at the Kennedy School of Government. The day after the explosion, Dole issued a statement from the campaign trail that "my thoughts and prayers go out to those whose loved ones were victims of this unspeakable, cowardly, criminal act." 
Killer gives kidney to mother 
DOVER 
Convicted killer Steven Shelton got a chance Thursday to do something his brother could not: donate a kidney to save their mother's life. The brothers were both sen­tenced to die for beating a man to death after an 18-hour drinking binge in 1992. Steven Shelton was scheduled to die April 5, but received a stay because he has not exhausted his appeals. For their mother, Vesta Shelton, the relief of finally getting a new kidney that can renew her life has been muted by her sorrow over one son's death and the pending execution of another. Steve Shelton, 29, was in fair condition Thursday at Wilmington Hospital after a four-hour operation to remove his kidney. The kidney was then taken to Thomas Jefferson University Medical Center in Philadelphia, where his mother underwent a five-hour transplant oper­ation. "Her surgery is finished and she's under surgical intensive care," said Dr. Michael Moritz, director of transplant surgery. 


Friday, April 28 

Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

AP/Aiex Sibirny 
Millions take "Daughters to Work" 
Millions of girls nationwide skipped school Thursday to don hard hats, doctors' scrubs or other grown-up garb for the third annual Take Our Daughters to Work Day. Twelve-year-old Liza Pitsirilos liked trailing her Dad around a construction site in New York City because it was "busy." Mickie Lincoln, 11, enjoyed buying supplies for West Point, saying "daughters need to be encour­aged." Organizers made a bigger push to include girls with perhaps the least chance to realize their dreams ­the disabled. poor and minorities. Homeless girls in Maine shadowed a pet store owner and an art professor. A growing number of companies -including Ford Motor Co., Gerber Products Co. and Chrysler Corp. -held "Take Your Children to Work" events instead. But the Ms. Foundation For Women, the group organizing the day, isn't swayed. "This is a day to pay attention to girls," said president Marie Wilson. "Girls are not very visible. If they had been, we wouldn't need this pro­gram." The day was created to counter the steep loss in self-esteem documented in girls 9 to 15. 
Israel remembers holocaust victims 
TEL AVIV 
Israelis froze in their tracks Thursday as sirens wailed 
in memory of the 6 million Jews slaughtered by the 
Nazis. But at a time of seemingly better prospects for 
peace and prosperity, this year's Holocaust 
Remembrance Day was also marked by new debate 
about the best way for a maturing nation to honor the 
dead and pass on the lesson of history. Some secular 
Israelis wondered whether they should do more to recog­
nize the universality of evil and other peoples' sufferings. 
Ultra-Orthodox Jews criticized the official ceremonies, 
saying they glorified a few uprisings and belittling the 
heroism of millions who went silently to their deaths. In 
a speech closing the day, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin 
struck a universal tone, saying Israel should fight fascism 
worldwide. "Fifty years after the fall of Hitler his succes­
sors are rising .. in Europe, in South America, and other 
areas," Rabin said at Kibbutz Yad Mordechai. "Israel will 
be on the front line .. and expects any progressive person 
to join the battle against reviving anti-Semitism." 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Friday, April28. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 50S FRONTS: ..............­_._._ ............ COLD WARM STATIONARY @ 1995 Accu-Wealher, Inc.  
Atlanta 78 51 Dallas 79 65 New Orleans 83 62 Baltimore 70 43 Denver 62 51 New York 65 48 Boston 55 44 Los Angeles 76 58 Philadelphia 68 47 Chicago 55 41 Miami 83 73 Phoenix 91 64 Columbus 64 40 Minneapolis 55 44 St. Louis 67 53  


~-------~~~ ~--­
Friday, April 28, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Clinton's Surgeon general nomination still under fire 
By NITA LELYVELD 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Conservative Christians who oppose abortion are attacking him on the airwaves. Abortion­rights groups are holding forth on the Internet, trying to whip up support. 
The fight over Dr. Henry Fos­ter's nomination as surgeon general is heating up again, just days before his Senate confirmation hearing, where the outcome probably hinges on the votes of three Republican senators. 
At Tuesday's hearing, Foster will get his best shot at telling the American people and the Senate what he has done in his four decades as a doctor and how he would guide the nation as its leading health educator. 
He will talk about his "I Have a Future" program to fight teen-age pregnancy in the Nashville housing projects, which won a Point of Light award from then-President Ifush. 
But the nine Republicans and seven Democrats on the Senate 
12:30,2:45,5:00,7:15,9:30 
Jefferson in Paris 
[PG13] 1 :00, 4:00, 7:00, 10:00 
Jurv Duty 
[.SG13] 12:45, 3:15, 5:15, 7:30,9:45 

Labor and Human Resources Committee will have many tough questions -about the varying answers the Tennessee obstetrician-gynecologist gave on how many abortions he has performed, his alleged connec­tion to a government study in which poor men with syphilis were left untreated, and other issues. 
"The difficulty is, given the controversy, can he move on beyond that? That is something people will want to explore," the committee's chairwoman, Sen. Nancy Kassebaum, R­Kan., said Thursday. 
Mistakes made by the White House early in the nomination process have given those who might oppose Foster plenty of wiggle room to do so without having to mention abortion. 
What they talk about instead is credibility: The White House initially told Kassebaum that Foster had performed one abortion. Foster later revised that number to about a dozen, and then he checked his records and said he had per­formed 39. 
While you were sleeping 
[PG] 9:00, 2:30, 5:00, 7:15, 9:30 


SMC 'celebrating leadership' 
By DIANA LANZILLOTTA 
News Writer 

The Saint Mary's mission statement reads: "In preparing women for roles of leadership and action, Saint Mary's pays particular attention to the rights and responsibilities of women in the worlds of work, church, and community." On Sunday, April 30, and Monday, May 1, Saint Mary's will affirm this commitment with its annu­al leadership event, "Celebrating a Leadership Community." 
The two-day event is spon­sored by the Leadership Devel­opment Committee, chaired by Colleen McKenna. Made up of faculty, administration, and students, McKenna says the committee's purpose is "to fos­ter student initiative." Meeting weekly, the committee has plaimed this celebration in or­der to offer an opportunity for women to explore the ways in which Saint Mary's cultivates leadership and acts as a leader­ship community. 
According to McKenna, the event is "an open acknowledg­ment of leadership." Through its celebration, Saint Mary's 
Kiss of Death 
[R) 
10:00, 2:00, 5:15, 7:30, 10:00 


NEWLY REMODELED 
• 
NEW CARPETS 

•
NEW TILE FLOORS 

•
COMPLETE REPAINTING OF EVERY UNIT 


AND MUCH MORE! 


ADVANTAGES WE OFFER 
•
FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 

• 
WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY APARTMENT 

•
DISHWASHER 

•
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

•
ADT SECURITY SYSTEMS •24-HOURMAINTENANCE 


~NOW OFFERING FURNISHED UNITS~ UNITS STILL AVAILABLE 
7:00pm 
8:00am­4:30pm 
12:15 pm­
1:15 pm 
4:30 pro­6:00pm 
7:30pm 


Celebrating a Leadership Community 
Sunday, April 30 
An evening with Mary Lou Gorno '72 Lecture: Outrageous Acts and Everyday Leadership 
Carroll Auditorium 
Monday, May 1 
Community Leadership Banner 
Hagger College Center 
Luncheon discussion: "Saint Mary's College as a Leadership Community" 
Dining Hall Basement 
All College Picnic 
Library Green 
Student Leader Commissioning Ceremony 
Church ofLoretto 
Reception Honoring New Student Leaders 
Dalloway's Coffee House 
1bc Ob~ervcriRobcrt Bollman, Jr. 

will honor current student lead­ers who have worked to make a difference, support new lead­ers, and encourage the Saint Mary's community to recognize their potential for leadership and action. 
Saint Mary's alumna Mary Lou Gorno will kick off the cele­bration on Sunday at 7:00 p.m. with a multimedia lecture enti­tled "Outrageous Acts and Ev­eryday Leadership," in Carroll Auditorium. Having graduated in 1972, Gorno is now vice­president of Leo Burnett, one of the world's largest advertising firms, and she serves as the current vice chair of the Board of Trustees and national chair of the Sesquicentennial Cam­paign for Saint Mary's College. Her lecture will highlight the numerous ways Saint Mary's women continue to transform 
the world. 
According to McKenna, 
Gorno came forward with an 
interest in speaking to students. 
"We're so lucky to have Mary 
Lou Gorno speak on Sunday. 
She's a leader in her field, and 
we were able to utilize her will­
ingness." 
On Monday, between 8:00 
a.m. and 4:30 p.m., the Saint 
. Mary's community will have a chance to write the name of a person who has influenced them on the "Community and Leadership Banner" outside of Haggar College Center. This year's banner will picture Mother Pauline, president of Saint Mary's from 1895 to 1931, as an example of leader­ship. Under her name, Saint 
see SMC I page 6 

•Specializing in engagement rings &anniversary rings· 
·Award Winning Designs· ·Custom Design and Repairs· 
~~!!/~ c;y~ GJEWELERS INC. 
277~1010 
.Cleveland Rd. East of UP Mall & US 31 North Villiage Mall 

Summer Internships: VECTOR INTERNATIONAL 
is accepting applications for summer openings at 2851ocations across the U.S. All majors Freshman-Senior. Scholarships availablel 6 previous scholarships awarded to Notre Dame Studentsl For Information Contact: 
SOUTH BEND 282-2357 • FORT WAYNE 471-6133 BLOOMINGTON 349-4034 • lAFAYEITE 447-1812 MUNCIE 289-7345 •INDIANAPOUS 767-5416 EVANSVIUE 474-5722 • MERRillYIUE 769-2352 

page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 28, 1995 
------------------------------~ 
--~ ---­


Collins 
continued from page 1 
Collins said he has merely tried to "broaden the scope of topics we deal with." 
Collins devoted one issue each year to a particular theme. He aims for such a "theme issue" to examine a cer­tain topic from a variety of standpoints. Collins says they "take basic themes, but utilize interesting points of view." For example, the magazine has taken-a look at such issues as "work," "adolescence," and "humor." 
One such issue dealing with the topic of "play" is currently in the works. In it, Collins hopes to deal with "what it was like to play before adults would get involved-pick up games as opposed to organized leagues per se." 
Collins, who has "not done nearly as much writing" as he thought he would as part of Notre Dame Magazine, does introduce each issue with a short editor's note. He says he 


WHEU'S THE BEEF1 
Happy 21st!! 
Love Ya! Mom, Dad, Tim, Meg, Maura, Tara, and Robin?? 





r-., 
"Tired of the same old summer job?"
1 I I 0 Earn money and gain valuable work experience in I some of Chicago's top businesses. 
I I
0 Enhance your computer skills and develop key 
I I
networking resources. 
I I 
I 0 The Choice for Staffing offers the best benefits in 
I

the temporary industry. 
has tried, with these notes, to "personalize the magazine's re­lationship with the J:lilader." 
Yet when Collins does write more extensively for the maga­zine, people take notice. He won a gold medal in the "best article" category from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education, a Washington D.C. based group, for an essay on his father which appeared in the Spring 1989 is­sue. one that focused on "fami­ly." In the essay [see excerpt], Collins says he was able to write about some elements of the "human condition I thought were useful-things that I wanted to say." 
Under Collins' leadership, Notre Dame Magazine has gar­nered awards like Frank Leahy's football teams won championships: consistently. This year alone, the Washing­ton D.C. based council has awarded the magazine two gold medals, two silver medals, and one bronze medal. Meanwhile, the Catholic Press Association has named the magazine the best Catholic magazine two out of the past three years. 
Along with his duties at Notre Dame Magazine, Collins teach­es one writing course each semester through the American Studies department. He views teaching as "a great opportuni­ty; a chance to be part of the central function of this univer­sity: to teach students." The students seem to enjoy Collins' courses too. 
Collins came to Notre Dame Magazine well prepared. While a philosophy major at Notre Dame, he worked at Scholastic Magazine as a columnist and news editor. After graduation, Collins wrote for a variety of publications. In Philadelphia he wrote for Industrial Mainte­nance; then upon returning to Indiana years later, he wrote 
for  the  Alexandria-Times  
Tribune.  Eventually, Collins  
returned  to  South Bend in  

1951, where he worked until 1969 at the South Bend Tri­bune. 
Through all his journalistic experiences, Collins believes his most important lesson was sim­ply learning "how to work with deadlines." "The clock is run­ning out" for journalists; they need to write with that in mind. "Newspaper teaches this hard but useful lesson," said Collins. 
So will retiring be an abrupt change for someone who has become used to heading one of the country's best university publications? Not really, ac­cording to Collins. He will con­tinue to teach a course each semester and says he "intends to continue to be a journalist and do some free-lance writ­ing" as well. Collins says he will probably try to sell some of his material to Notre Dame Magazine on just such a free­lance basis. If history serves as a judge, incoming editor Kerry Temple, class of '74, will surely not be able to pass up the work of Walt Collins. 

I I For more information call 
I 

The Choice 
I 

for Staffing
I 

at
I 

(312) 372-4500. 
I 
L. 
I I I I I I 

Clr~c.go I Sllfl' fran.dseo W•sll:ing•on, D.C. 
I 

.J 
It's One Of The Most Useful Credit Cards On The 
// / 

Planet. Unless You've Stolen It Your MasterCard® is stolen. You panic, get
0 

angry, panic some more. Then you call and cancel it. Now the thief is in possession 
about seven cents worth of stolen plastic. (Maybe he can use it as a coaster when he 
/..._ 
entertains at the hideout.) So relax. You only have to pay for stuff you bought, 
and you can get a new card the next day~ It'll be accepted at millions of places, 
must sell wallets. MasterCard. It's more than a credit card. It's smart money.™ 
Friday, April 28, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 


Inequities still plague S. Africa •NewsA~LYsls 
• 

ByJOHNLUCAS ployed, while another 10 mil-Although Mandela may be 

Nation tallies GOP 
Edimr-in-Chief lion are without homes. While South Africa's greatest political a wide variety of solutions are asset and symbol, Mpumlwana ' Exactly one year after the available to combat these prob-said that both age and a gruel-

Contract' score 
first free elections in South !ems, Mpumlwana advocated a ing schedule may slow the 77­
Afriean history, the country has established numerous political. economic and ideological reforms. 
But unless Nelson Mandela and his Government of National Unity stave ofT voter apathy and create tangible improvements in the lives of poor South Africans, true peace and justice may take longer to achieve, ac­cording to Heverend Malusi Mpumlwana, a distinguished theologian and director of the Institute for Pastoral Studies in Grahamstown, South Africa. 
"The materials are on hand for the foundation of peace," said Mpumlwana. "For the peo­ple on the ground, the moment is now. If we leave changes and reforms for another sea­son, it might be too late." 
Currently, nearly 55 percent of African males are unem­10-point plan to aggressively begin to build educational op­portunities, land reform, worn-en's rights and political educa­tion, among other problems. 

Still, the greatest problem may be slowly growing in the vast South African electorate, who, only one year after suf­frage are already feeling disen­franchised from the new sys-tern. 
The enthusiasm and intensity of the fight against the apartheid has diminished, he said, and people may feel that their responsibility was fulfilled after they voted. 
"It is not always easy to translate ideas into actual ad­ministrative action," he said. "Now, people are sitting back and waiting for things to hap­pen, which is a recipe for strife." 
CONGRATULATE YOUR FAVORITE GRADUATE! 
Reserve this sPace for onlY $20. or something a little bigger for a little more! Call 219-631·6900 for info or send a Picture and something to say with a check to: The Observer PO Box Q Notre Dame IN 46556 by MaY 16th! 
year old president into eventual retirement. 
"The ANC needs to begin to cultivate a successor so he can begin to build an account in the bank of public confidence," he said. 
When Mandela finally retires, it is vital that his spirit and the spirit of the Liberation Move­ment is preserved in a new generation, he said. 
"The lives, and even blood, of leaders like Mandela, Steven Biko, Chris Hani and Oliver Tambo are a concrete slab upon which the edifice of a new South Africa will stand," Mpumlwana said. 
Mpumlwana himself has a long and distinguished record in the fight against apartheid. Joining the Liberation Move­ment in the 1960s, he was a close associate of Black Con­sciousness leader Steve Biko and was arrested numerous times. 
"He was picked up and felt the full brutalities of a police system in which torture was endemic," said Peter Walsh e. professor of government. 
__v________ ------~---__ .. -·v-.. Btd 'N ~~t-kf R 1 
urd ast ~ stry 
~ SOII/Ir Bend'• Fint !UgfSiry ofPrivate Homu Serving Pannts andFriend.· of Notrt Dame and SL Mary'• Col/ego 
7ry the OPTION/ £¥>1• "H_A_,/rolo H...,• 
rrarrcr roa •••• auounror rooruLL 
wnma L Behnke 2111-291.7153 

By DEBORAH SCHULTZ News Writer 
The 100 day limit that the 

Republican party scheduled for 
their "Contract with America" 
has ended and, contrary to the 
Democratic party's hopes, the 
GOP has made great strides. 
The GOP's "Contract with 

America" promised to reform 
term limits, the budget, welfare 
and other issues in 100 days. 
It attempted to bring vigor 
back to the Republican party. 
According to Professor 

Robert Schmuhl, Department 
Chair of American Studies, the 
GOP's "Contract with America" 
developed with an attempt to 
fashion a document that would 
appeal to the public and have a 
direct focus. 
"It is too soon to say how suc­

cessful the 'Contract with 
America' has been. It did give 
the Republicans in the House of 
Representatives a focus and a 
definite agenda, and it showed 
America that the GOP is serious 
about dealing with the con­
cerns they mentioned in the 
contract," said Schmuhl. "It 
was a success because they 
promised they would deal with 
these subjects during 100 days, 
and they did," said Schmuhl. 
"The contract helped to give 

energy to the Republicans in 
the House of Representatives. 
It gave them a new vigor and a 
new commitment," said 
Schmuhl. 
"Already a provision has 

passed that made Congress Jive 
~~!!!!!!~~~~~~~~~!!!@ljunder the same rules as the 
rest of the country, but many of the term limits are unresolved right now, and the Senate voted down the budgets bill. think that we will see a number of modifications, changes, and a lot of presidential vetoes," said Schmuhl. 
Since the 100 days of the new Congressional session have ended, the Senate is now debating the contract. If passed in the Senate, the con­tract will then be taken to the President. However, according to Schmuhl, the Senate will take longer deciding than the House did. 
"The Senate will be more methodical in their decision making. They have the ability to filibuster, and I also think the tragedy in Oklahoma City will slow the process down," said Schmuhl. 
"I believe that elements of the contract will pass, and some might well be acceptable to the President. But I think the final results will be vastly different to what was originally proposed," said Schmuhl. 
To negate the work of GOP, the Democratic party is trying to slow down the Republicans, but have not yet presented any definite ideas to oppose them. 
"The Democrats have tried to erect road blocks, and to do what they can to prevent pas­sage of a number of elements. All the energy is on the side of the Republicans, so the Democrats are having a hard time with definite actions," said Schmuhl. 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 


r-----------,
$5 DEAL

1 I 
I 
Any Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $5 
I 
The Best Pizza at the Best Prize Call 1 -6902 

I -1I COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95
1----------­
$10 DEAL

I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas 

I I
and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10 Ca/11-6902

I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95

L .J 
r-----------,
$4 DEAL

I I 
Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4
I I
Now, That's a Deal! Call 1-6902 

I -1I COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95




1----------­
DOUBLE DEAL
I I 
You get 2 Large 14" 1 item 
I I
Pizzas for Only $9 Cal/1-6902
I I 
L COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95 
.J 

CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite . 
....-.. '-'-"...l•f·'-!.'-'-'~.J-~-·-·-·-·....•-!_t.f_l_l_l_f•f-f•t•t•l•'•'•'.-'•'-'-"-'•' I _! _!.: ~ -·~·.I.-' _I ' ' ~ .l, _t _I ."'! • ' .t •.• ,J.J t
o 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~~ 
page6 
continued from page 3 
Mary's went from being an academy to a college, the first accreditation board was brought to campus, and both Holy Cross and LeMans Halls were built. The banner will be a communal memento of the 

"Students, women in partic­ular, need to be reminded they can have an iinpact on their community," says McKenna. "Elizabeth was chosen to speak because she is a pertinent leader who makes leadership look easy. She's always made everything look so effortless because she commits to what she enjoys, feels intensely about, and to what she knows 
The Observer • NEWS 
will be commissioned by their predecessors and advisors. 
"This is not your typical awards ceremony," says McKenna. "This ceremony rec­ognizes everybody. It brings everyone together under one umbrella of leadership." A reception honoring new student leaders will follow in Dalloway's Coffeehouse at 8:30 p.m. 
. 


Te01ple 
continued from page 1 
numerous national awards in 
the process. 
Kerry Temple, Notre Dame 
Magazine's managing editor 
since 1985, has excelled in his 
own right. 
Friday, April 28, 1995 
Temple's past experience on the magazine's staff, along with his unusually profound connection to writing, should assist him in making his transi­tion much easier. 
"I've worked for the maga­zine for 13 years and been around long enough that I feel pretty comfortable the maga­zine will continue to be as good as it is now. The staff here is 
leaders who have shaped Saint Mary's. 
Also on Monday, senior and current LeMans resident advi­sor, Elizabeth Kernan, will ad­dress students, faculty, and administrators in a lecture that deals with leadership issues in a luncheon at 12:15 p.m. in the dining hall basement. 


Moving 
continued from page 1 
from the Country Harvester is damaged, the owner should call Horak at the store, and she will pursue the claim against UPS. Claims usually take between 14 and 21 days to be processed before a check is mailed to the package owner. 
UPS's service record is remarkably good. Last year, Horak mailed over 3000 pack­ages via UPS from her store, and only four were reported lost or damaged. 
"I want to make sure that 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

she can give." 
After an all-college picnic on the library green between 4:30 and 6:00 p.m., the celebration will culminate Monday evening with the commissioning of next year's student leaders. At 7:30 
p.m. in the Church of Loretto, student government leaders, resident advisors, residence hall leaders, and class officers 
everybody's things get home safely. That's important to me," Horak said. "Everyone who uses the Country Harvester should have their things arrive home in good condition." 
For that reason and because of UPS's service record, Horak has used UPS as her store's shipper of choice for six years. 
UPS offers ground service that takes three to four days to arrive at any U.S. destination, as well as three-day select ser­vice, second-day air, and next day air. Shipments leave the 
1I ERASMUS BOOKS···­
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$1.00 

• 
Appra1sals large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesdey through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 [219) 2'32-844.:1 
"I've been so impressed over the past years," commented McKenna. "Saint Mary's has been blessed with some of the most dedicated and accom­plished students I've seen." 
All are welcome to partici­pate in the event as a time for reflection, celebration, learn­ing, and planning. 
Country Harvester daily. 
To handle the end of year traffic, the store will offer the following extended end-of-year hours: May 8-13, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Senior Week, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. The store will also be open after Commencement on May 22-24 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. 

Last month at the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) awards, Temple took top honors with a silver medal for a published story he wrote on a wilderness trip he took in New Mexico. In addition, he claimed a gold medal for staff-writing along with the rest of the magazine's five-person team. 
This is no surprise to Walter Collins, who has only compli­ments for his future successor. "It's been a real pleasure working with Kerry. He's one of the best writers I've ever known. I think he's going to be an absolutely sensational edi­tor," predicts Collins. 
good; the tradition is in place," says Temple. 
His future plans for the mag­azine include aims to increase circulation from it's current readership of 125,000, while still maintaining the quality of writing and level of emotional response from its readers, which has brought the maga­zine such recognition over the years. 
For Notre Dame alumni, there is no reason to be wor­ried. Walt Collins will certain­ly be missed, but Kerry Temple appears more than ready to fill such great footsteps, with his own pair of shoes. 

APPLY NOW... 
Join the Culture Club (Get in touch with your karma chameleon). 
Apply for CllD ~TS commissioner in the Student Union Board. 
Get an application in the SUB office *applications due Monday, May 1 * 

15" color display, keyboard, mouse andall the soft­ware you're likely to need. 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintoshe easy. So easy, in fact, that the prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. Soyou need to forget about how hard your life is for a minute and start thinking about how easy it will bewithaMacintosh.The comput­er that gives you the power any student can use.The power to be your bese Appletl '-
Producl prices, producl availability and sales taxes may vary. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Peforma, PowerBook and "The power to beyour best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Power Macintcsh and Mac are trademarks ofApple CompuJer, Inc. All Apple'products are designed to be accessible to individuals with disabuity. 7b learn mme (U.S. only), call 800·776·2333 or rDD 800·833·6223. 

''fh; Observer •NEWS page 7 


Bombing suspect, McVeigh held without bail 
B·y DOUG FERGUSON 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 

Timothy McVeigh, incrimi­nated by "an indelible trail of evidence," was ordered held without bail Thursday in the Oklahoma bombing, while au­thorities put out an alert for his missing Arizona license plate in hopes it will lead them to the second suspect. 
Their fear: John Doe No. 2 may bomb again. Federal magistrate Ronald 
Howland found sufficient evi­dence to hold McVeigh for trial in the case. A grand jury will be asked to return an indictment. 
The decision came after four hours of testimony from special agent John Hersley in which he described accounts of several witnesses, including one man who saw McVeigh's yellow Mercury speeding away from a parking lot near the building with McVeigh and a second passenger. 
Hersley said at the hearing his "primary responsibility is to find the other subject to pre­vent another bomb from going 
IT .. 
0 . 

The death toll in the nation's largest terror attack, mean­while, passed a grim milestone: More than 100 bodies have now been found in the rubble of the Alfred Murrah Federal Build­ing. 
When McVeigh, the only per­son yet charged in the bombing, utes after the blast, his yellow Mercury Marquis was missing a license plate. That plate has not been found, and the FBI is seeking it, said special agent Weldon Kennedy, who is in charge of the investigation. 
A Washington law enforce­ment source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said in­vestigators know "that plate was on a vehicle in Oklahoma City before the blast." There is a videotape that shows the plate on a vehicle in Oklahoma City, the official said. 
Why would it be useful now? 
"It might be on the ground," and the location might help pin­point an escape route, the offi­
was stopped by a state trooper cial said. "Or it might be on Session I-May 18 to June 23 
on April 19, less than 90 min-another vehicle." Session II -June 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general 

The following members of the Notre Dame
education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer 
community will be Confirmed in the Catholic Church: 
tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing. 
Suzanna Adams, Jill Albanese, Thomas Asci, Erin Bowman,
Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer 
Jessica Buchanan, Colleen Campbell, Francis Cloran, Jeff Gagnon, Todd Garlitz. Tabia Graham, Jeff Ho, 
sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your 
time more productively during the upcoming summer 
Andrea Jordan, Julia Kleiser, Claire Kolkoski,
break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally 
lsabela Marchi, Scott Morgan, M. Delfina Muniz,
small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our 
Beth Murchison, Shannon Ortega, Mia Pasquinelli, 
convenient location just to the west of the University 
Hans Patuwo, Tony Popanz, Ray Prado, Paola Ramirez, Cristan Reali, John Rooney, Jenifer Roe, Greg Saba, Eric Patrick Salas, Tanya Scapanski, Carrie Teibel, 
of Notre Dame campus. And, of course, credit earned 
is transferrable. 

Andria Wisler, and Roger Zalneraitis 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications 
Rite of Confirmation and Moss
for Summer Sessions Iand II, as well as for the 
Sunday, April 30. 1995 
1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
2:00p.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Bishop Joseph R. Crowley. presider 
* HOLY 
Please Come and Support These Candidates
CROSS 
COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O.Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 

!:I 1995 


. f lk
·'>''i.,.,.......,.....

Surpr1se your o s. 
When you stay awake in class, you tend to Iearn more. IUn I ess you have an u~can n! taI~nt . • of learning through osmosis.) So don't let fatigue get in the way of your A, ReVIVe With V1var1n • One tablet has the same amount of caffeine as about two cups of coffee. 
And it's just as safe. Hey, anything is possible, if you're up for it. 
SD
!ImrthKII,.. ll.ech11m 01995 Consumer Healthcare 

Revive with Vivarin~ 
Use only as directed. 


--· --~~----------~---·---­
?.-.. ..'• ~)P ,... ,-.... ,_.L_·.~ 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 28, 1995 
laboratory for aquatic ecology teaching and research. All of

Paramilitary gro.ups condemned Building 
the new proposed facilities, in­

By JILL lAWRENCE 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Paramilitary groups? "Boys with toys ... whose testosterone levels are dropping." Talk ra­dio's appeal? Abusing people, "you get mean." 
That was Sen. Bob Kerrey on Thursday. sounding off on sub­jects much discussed, though u:mally not SQ bluntly, since last week's Oklahoma City bombing. 
Kerrey, D-Neb., is chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. But he barely touched on his uphill task of restoring Democrats to a majority in his remarks at the National Press Club. 
Instead, the one-time presi­dential candidate unleashed a string of provocative opinions, some of them related to the bombing and its aftermath. 
His first target was "those on the extreme right who are so dissatisfied and angry to the point of declaring war on this government." Kerrey said he was tempted to, but would not, revive the phrase such people had used a generation ago: "America. Love it or leave it." 
Asked his view of paramili­tary groups, Kerrey said they are comprised of "these guys whose testosterone levels are dropping and they don't know what else to do.... They get out there and, you know, they want 
I  ---,  
:Engagement Rings  7:~  
10%-15% OFF!  ' V  

Officicll Wholesale Price list! 
1 S.A. Peck & Co. 
I 
55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 Fur a Fret 32-Pagr Color Catalog . To/1-Fr<t (800) 922-009G FAX (312) 977-0248 1 :t't~met Uualog aJ bttp: llwww.l·apeck.com/sspeck 

to do target practice and put your jungle fatigues on and make sure you pull your shirt out so you can't show your big fat belly, and you want to get real tough." 
It's all right to "let your boys with toys have fun," Kerrey said, "but ifyou say that you're going to take the law into your own hands and threaten your neighbor or you think that you're going to threaten this government, we'll shut you down." 
Kerrey said he doesn't hold talk radio responsible for the bombing. But he did say that "talk radio sells programs." 
sells advertising by treating people like crap. That's how the ratings go up. You get mean with somebody. You belittle them~ You know, you say, 'Oh, that crippled Kerrey,' or some­thing like that." He was refer­ring to his artificial lower leg, the result of a mine explosion in Vietnam. 
In other pointed answers, 
Kerrey addressed: 
-The Republican tax cut. He said Democrats should tell the congressional GOP leadership to "take that $200 billion tax cut and put it where the sun doesn't shine. Forget it. We've got a deficit to deal with here." 
-Young Republicans. "There's something rather ar­rogant, and in my judgment hypocritical, when I hear a 30­year-old soot-nosed lawyer ar­riving in the House of Repre­sentatives saying to me that he's against raising the mini­mum wage" and providing health care "because he wants the market to do it," Kerrey said. He said Democrats need to point out "with a little fire" that sometimes the market doesn't work. 
-Mental stability. Asked whether the military should keep a closer watch on the mental stability of service mem­bers, Kerrey replied: "My guess is that the number of people who flip out as a consequence 
HAPPY 20TH BIRTHDAY 

BEN! 
LOVE, MoM, DAD, & LESLIE 

continued from page 1 
tell you." 

The new building signifies a major step forward for the Uni­versity in fulfilling the goals of the Colloquy 2000, the long range aims of the University. 
The Colloquy stated among its goals of "building projects" a 
Enjoy the AnTostal activities 
ATTENTION COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SOPHOMORES 
If you are interested in serving on the College of Business Administration College Council please submit your resume to Assistant Dean Sam Gaglio, Room 132 Hayes-Healy Center, no later than May 3, 1995. 
If you need more information call 63 1-6602. 
cluding the proposed Hank Hall, were called "among the most pressing needs within the University" by the Colloquy. 
Additional funding for the Hank Hall will be provided by Indiana University because of their involvement in the Center for Medical Education. 

Before you can start a relation­ship on the right foot, you must be on your feet. 
....i, 







you pass out, she'll pass on / you. 
--------~­

------~---~~--~------------------------------·----------------------------~----­
-~~ 
12

~A~id;~~Attr'l~:-~d=i'1~;~~~g;ff~o~r~c~e~s~F.iiiiiiBT~h~eoibise~rv~era·NiEWisliiili~~~~·mn~~W~~p~ag~e9 
report increased heroin usage 
By KEVIN GALYIN 
A'iSociared Press 
WASHINGTON 
Heroin use appears to be increasing in many parts of the country, with some crack users switching to heroin for its price and availability, the nation's top anti-drug official reported Thursday. 
"Heroin of high purity continues to be a major story in many areas of the country with use in the Northeast and South having stabilized at a high level or with increasing use," said Lee Brown, d_irector of the White House Office on National Drug Control Policy. 
Brown's quarterly report on national trends in drug abuse also said that heroin is attracting younger users and that cocaine and marijuana are readily available across the country. 
While older users still dominate the heroin market, researchers in New York, Colorado, New Jersey, Connecticut, California and Georgia in­terviewed by Brown's office said that younger users are increasing. 
Police in New York, Seattle and Washington reported similar trends, but treatment providers said the average heroin user they see remains essentially the same: over 30 years old and male. 
''Street sales of heroin are reported as brisk, with areas like Connecticut reporting as many as seven or eight sellers on a single street corner," 

The Oboervar/Rob Finch
Stretch! 

Two Notre Dame students compete with each other in Bungee Running, an AnTostal-sponsored event where each con­testant tries to run as far as he can, as a bungee cord holds him back, in hopes of winning a plastic sport bottle. 
If you see news happening, call the Observer. 

Are you graduating and want to get rid of college items? Are you moving off campus and need extra furniture? Are you looking for additional supplies to fill your dorm? BE A PART OF THE RUMMAGE SALE!! FURNITUREAPPLIANCE$ SELL OR BUYSOfAS HOY$EH0Ul WARE SfEPAN CENTER DROP OFF: APRIL 29 SALE: APRIL 30 12:00-5:00 11 :00-" 5:00 $1 from each sale made as well as all items not sold will be donated to a charitable organization to be named later.  
Our Lady's April 25, 1995 message from Medjugorje for the world: "Dear Children! Today I call you to love. Little children, without love you cannot live, neither with God nor with your brother. Therefore, I call all of you to open your hearts to the love of God that is so great and open to each of you. God, out of love for man, has sent me among you to show you the path of salvation, the path of love. If you do not first love God, then you will neither be able to love neighbor nor the one you hate. Therefore, little children, pray and through prayer you will discover love. Thank you for having responded to my call." Join the Children of Mary and Knights of the Immaculata in praying the rosary at 10:00 p.m. Monday-Thursday in Zahm's chapel (followed by 10:30 mass) and 8:00p.m. Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Listen to Mary's call for prayer and respond! For more information on Marian apparitions and messages, contact Danny Eisenbacher (1643), the Children of Mary homepage under groups and organizations on the Notre Dame Homepage (http://www.nd.edu/-mary) or contact: Queen of Peace Ministries, P.O. Box 761, Notre Dame IN 46556  



--____.,-~-~" ____" ___ 

~~~~~~~~~ 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association 
Invites all Notre Dame students to break from studies and come to 
The All-Class Alumni Picnic In Honor of the Class of '95 

When: Saturday, April 29, 1995 Time: 11:00 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Where: Stepan Center Field 
~,~soc. 
~-~~­
~ 0 
~ ::J 



The Event will be attended by members of the National Alumni ·Association Board of Directors and Alumni Club repres~ntatives from all over the country! 
Food, Beverages, Music, and Fun! 
• 
Give-Aways for Seniors 

• 
Off-Campus Seniors ... Lunch is on us! We hope to see you there! 


. . .......... ' ......................... . 




VIEWPOINT 
Friday, April 28, 1995 page 11 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 
News Editor ..••............................ David Tyler Advcnising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor ........•......... Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malaytcr SJ>Orts Editor .................. , .......... Mike Norbut Production Manager ..•••.•........... Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .......•................. Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Dircctor .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary'• Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notte Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Edi10r, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns pn:scm the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all reoders. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Edilor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 s rts 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839~ws/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor /Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer. Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
When the chips are down at least we still have Rice 
Dear Editor: I've got degrees from two secu­
God bless Professor Charlie lar universities and if I ever Hice. Professor Rice is a great wanted to see a leader while at man. He is a leader. Amidst these institutions, I would have the legions of moral lethargy, to go to the video store and rent there is Professor Rice. He is a Hoosiers. I couldn't find any in role model for all of us. the faculty on campus. 
All these accolades from Academic brilliance I saw, but someone who disagrees with it is no substitute for character much of what Rice has to say. I and leadership. am a non-Catholic Christian Apart from his intimate con­and I can recognize leadership cern for the intellectual, spiri­and greatness, even when it tual, characterological and falls outside of my ranks. I've recreational welfare for the only had the pleasure of talking undergraduates here (Rice dis­personally with Professor Rice tinguishes himself from most of a few times, and maybe if I the faculty here because he would get to know him better I understand that to be an abso­would be less enthusiastic lutist about one's relativism is about him, but maybe the to contradict oneself absolutely. opposite is true. Rice also understands, as the 
Hice is a paradigm for all who Scripture says, that we all are set foot at this university. He slaves of the one whom we exemplifies the truism that it obey: either of sin, resulting in doesn't take great talents, bril­death, or of obedience resulting liance or abilities to be a great in righteousness. person. Don't misunderstand There are two things I can me. I am not saying that Rice think of that we can do to help doesn't have great talents, that this university. One is the he is not brilliant or that he replace that statute of that doesn't have fantastic abilities. unrepentant sodomite in the IIe may or he may not, I do not Grotto with a tribute to know. I do know that every Professor Rice. The tribute other week (and some more would house a weather-proof than others) Rice shows us that bound anthology of Rice's arti­holiness and greatness is a cles in The Observer and a col­matter of simple concepts. His lection box where people could articles are straightforward, fill in their address and select cogent, simple and yet pro­any three of his articles sent to found. Rice is not liked by all them free of charge. Second, here, but his criticism is usually we can have our pockets filled visceral and not logical. Throw with rice as we stand in the sta­stones they will, but debate him dium cheering for our football they won't. team. It will remind us that 
It is professor Rice and not win or loose we have Rice, the golden dome, the adminis­while if our opponents loose, tration, the multimillion dollar they have generally have noth­Basilica or the theology depart­ing. ment that gives this institution any residue of Catholic charac­PIEDER BEELI ter. Take away Rice and there Graduate Student in Physics 
Eucharist brings gift of faith 
Dear Editor: 
Like many of us, I made my first communion when I was about eight. I was taught that the host and the wine turned into Jesus's body and blood at mass. I was amazed! 
I waited with anticipation until the moment when I would receive His body and blood for the first time. When that day came, it was a mystical experience. The priest put Jesus's body in my hand and I ate Him! Then I drank His blood out of a big chalice! This excitement at receiving Our Lord remained for a few months, or maybe a year. 
After that, I began to notice that no one seemed to share my wonder at receiving Jesus, so my appreciation for communion gradually dis­appeared. I didn't disbelieve that He was present at communion, but the thought that it was Him that I ate and drank never crossed my mind. So, on a practical level, I didn't believe in Him. Soon mass became a forty-five minute test of my patience. However, I found a cure for that: 1 started daydreaming. 
I developed daydreaming into a fine tuned art. As I entered middle school and then high school, I turned from daydreaming to problem solving and planning. Mass was arguably the best think­ing time that I had all week. Towards the end of high school, that began to change, as I started to pay more attention to the scripture readings, the homily, and some of the prayers, but nothing drastic happened until this last summer. 
Last May, for the first time in my life, I went to Eucharistic adoration. I was blown away by Our Lord's presence there. It's very difficult to describe, but I was simply overwhelmed by Him. I could feel His love flowing out of the Eucharist to me. 1 felt Mary, the angels, and the saints beside me in adoration of Our Lord. 
It was a wonderful experience. After that, a sense of wonder and joy began to return in the reception of communion. I remembered that I was receiving Our Lord! My joy at receiving Him was further enhanced by a practice of St. Louis de Montfort's that I read about. It involved ask­ing Mary for her heart before mass, and then in­troducing Jesus into her heart after communion. 
From this practice, the joy and wonder that came from communion began to erupt. Mary was always overjoyed to receive her Son, and she shared this joy with me. I had been offered this 
is little backbone to point out. Offcampus 
• 000NESBURY 
HAVEYW NOTHING MUOf. 
HAl?ANY JV5750ME 
a/HAT? 07HEI<. 910R:r-TeRM 
8.1?., 

?HAT'S ANl1MCXJl1 5eRIOUS!/ qw;N&9. \ :/ 
9/MPT~? MffMOR.Y~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
IM£AN, MeMORYtiJ9S ANl1MaJ/l 
5111/N$AI?&... 
I 

MCJ(}/) 
5M#Af75? tuH0541{} 
IWYTHI/Ik3 
A80t/T
MOOP 
SIIIIN6S? 
\ 


joy for eleven years, but, until last summer, I had never really received it. I had basically ignored Our Lord at communion. Finally, at the age of 19, I allowed His love to fill me. I allowed Jesus Christ to enter me and to transform me into Himself. 
Everyday we experience wonderful gifts of Christ's love in our friends, in our family, in a pretty day, in the fun of sports, in a favorite song. But, in the Eucharist, Jesus gives us Himself, and He is all love, beauty, joy, truth, and happiness! That's quite a gift. In fact, it's better than all other gifts put together. 
Now that I've discovered this, mass is the best part of my day. Christ offers this joy to all of us, and, although many of us here at ND go to mass weekly, how many of us receive this joy? I know I missed out on it for 11 years. Don't do the same. Receive Him and rejoice! 
TONY PILlAR! 
Sophomore 
Grace Hall 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ideological differences are no excuse for rudeness." 
-Judith Martin 

VIEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, April 28, 1995 
• CAPITOL COMMENTS 


Lawless world beyond 'Catholic Disneyland' 
For those of you Notre Dame percent of drivers exceed it hundred-day "Contract" period, Caucasian reporter and said, no political party, rhetorical seniors who will soon graduate, anyway. Those, like former anti labor legislation looms on "How can you call this evi­slogan, or candidate can make wouldn't you feel great if you Governors Casey of Pennsyl­the horizon. It seems ironic to dence? This is nothing but me happy. Society is too com­told Assistant Director of vania (my home state) and me that these voters may lose racism." Or was it journalism? plex to change overnight. Security Phil Johnson where to Schaffer of Maryland (the state their jobs or face reductions in Local politicians in this city Therefore, it might be time for put his traffic citations? It prob­through which I drive to go wages and benefits in the have been crying racism every politicians to temper their ably would give every student home) consistently opposed future because they put time they have a problem. I am harsh "Gingrich-style" combat­great pleasure to stick it to the raising the limit. Fortunately, Republicans in power over sick of it. Most of this city is sick ive approach so that extremists Administration in retaliation for they both are gone, and the some silly rhetorical gimmick. of it. I am sick of the drug­do not vent their frustrations the drinking or parietals poli­limit will be raised soon. Of course they did not lose their addicted trash who loudly carry like they did in Oklahoma City. cies. But just who is it that In my zeal to oppose the limit, right to bear arms, just assault on all night in residential areas It might also be time for Ameri­deserves the hated title, I drive my Thunderbird at an weapons. and then break into cars (mine cans to quit voting based on "Administration?" Is it merely average of 75 mph while on the On the other hand, they can included) in the early morning hatred and one-issue thinking. Monk Malloy resort to the sick-minded hours. I am sick of the prosti­Of course, I know that both will 
:=============== interstate.
or is it ev­
However. thought process that precipitat­tutes who use the church park­never happen as long as greed eryone who I have ed the Oklahoma bombing-the ing lot across the street from for power motivates the politi­occupies the fallen government is bad so stick it to my home. I am sick of the cian, and mindlessness abounds "Admin short of them. The message I have for unfriendly people who cannot within the voting populous. 

Gary

Building?" behaving seniors is that beyond the gates speak a version of English I can The best advice I can offer Don't get like the of Notre Dame's Catholic understand, and then give me the graduating class this spring me wrong, crowd Disneyland lies a sick, lawless attitude on the streets. (Friends is to be as deliberative as you

Caruso

some my best w h 0 world. In the nation's capital, were threatened by six can when you vote. Look at the friends are bombed for example, a red light does teenagers last week because large picture instead of a party "Admin" the Okla­not exist. Drug addiction, one friend used his horn when label or the specialty of a one­types, includ-homa City hatred, illiteracy, and cal­the teens ran a red light.) And I issue candidate. Graduating ing Phil Johnson. They go to federal building. I even lousness abound in this city. I am particularly sick of the petty from an institution like Notre their jobs every day like the restrained myself from voting cannot think of anyone who left parking rules that make life Dame places a responsibility on rest of us working people in the against Casey because he and I Washington, D.C., kinder or miserable in this damn city. you to lead with your intellect real world. It is simply that are both Democrats, and gentler after experiencing the However, I will not bomb the and compassion for others. You their employer or job require­Pennsylvania needed a attitude residents exude. parking enforcement lot. Nor may be frustrated at times like I ments sometimes make them Democratic governor. One-issue Last week Mayor Barry's Taxi will I run over the street people am, but at least you can feel unpopular. I can think of a good voters lose sight of reality in Commission Director came whenever they jay-walk without confident that you participated analogy being the state trooper politics. They sometimes lose under fire when it was discov­regard to moving traffic. On the the best you could. You may who issues the speeding tickets. more because of their crusad­ered that over a hundred-thou­other hand, I might let my dog even become like me -one of Keep me safe on the road, come ing extremism. sand dollars disappeared. The off his leash to scare the hell Phil Johnson's friends. to my distress, but give the For example, many in the director, an African-American out of them. Moreover, I do call Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame other guy a ticket. rank and file of the labor woman, held a press confer­the police when the prostitutes '73. worked at the U.S. House 
Personally, I happen to be unions voted Republican in the ence with some of her employ­use the lot. And like the rest of of Representatives for eighteen one of those who believes that last election to protect their so­ees and denied any knowledge America, I am looking for years and is now a publicist the 55 mile per hour speed called Second Amendment right of the missing funds. She ended someone to fix it all so that I with the International Union of limit is ridiculous. especially in to bear arms. Now that the the session by waving the can feel better. Electronics Workers (IUE) in light of the fact that almost 95 Republicans have fmished their charges given to her by a The bad news for me is that Washington. D.C. 
il BEYOND fREEDOM RocK 

Athletes, freaks march side-by-side 
When my ex-wife was a junior at the University of Colorado in the spring of 1970, her campus went on strike over the invasion of Cambodia. They gath­ered each day on the quad to hear the news from the war, from the campus movement, from campuses around the country. They would read the names of schools that had joined in the Student Strike, and they would cheer at each name in the list. 
Pete 
were that the demonstrators had thrown rocks at the National Guard, but that turned out to be a lie. And African-American students were later 
angered that no-one was as upset over similar shootings that week at JacksonPeterson State; but the Jackson State shootings had a racial angle that gave it a sense of "so what else is new?" Black people being killed by white cops in Mississippi just didn't have the shock 
Korean War was only 20 years in the past. It was a scary time. 
If we were scared about what was going on in Southeast Asia, we were no less frightened by what was going on in the United States. Nixon and Ag­new had been stirring up hatred against dissenters since they had taken office, and their attempt to rally what Agnew called "the Silent Majority" was beginning to bear fruit. 
The initial reports out of Kent State 
Until they read off "The University of Notre Dame" and everyone burst into laughter. We didn't think it was funny. Sure, we weren't full of blue­collar. working-class heroes like Madison or Ann Arbor, but we were aware of what was going on in the world, and we had more than our share of committed Christian activists. 
When Richard Nixon announced his decision to send troops into Cambodia, we didn't have the benefit of 25 years of hindsight with which to assess the situation. What we knew was that the Russians and the Chinese were watch­ing. We knew the US had already been criticized by the Russians for the war in Laos that had been a poorly kept secret until a few months before. We knew that our government had almost certainly been involved in the coup that had overthrown Prince Norodom Sihanouk of Cambodia and installed a regime very friendly to the Saigon gov­ernment. Sihanouk was friendly with both China and Russia 
We were pretty sure the Russians wanted no part of this quagmire, but we weren't that certain about the Chinese. Changing the game from Viet­nam War to Indochina War was an open invitation to new players, and the value of white kids being shot down by the National Guard. 
Whether or not the people at Colorado thought it was funny, Notre Dame was on strike, with many stu­dents abandoning classes for demon­strations and teach-ins to discuss the war and its implications. The fact that our government was willing to kill us to shut us up added a sense of urgency to the matter. 
The administration announced that they would prefer we stay in class. but the decision of the faculty senate was to allow individual departments and professors to make their own decisions about grades. Most students were offered the option to finish their course or take a grade based on current work, either an actual grade or a pass/fail, depending on the professor or department. 
Father Hesburgh went down in the history of the period for his "15 Minute Rule," a supposed get-tough policy that offered students who tried to shut down the school a brief period of reflection before they would he expelled if they did not back down from the confrontation. 
This time, however. Father Hesburgh was, if not supportive of the strike, supportive of our right to be outraged. He even issued a statement of his own, condemning Nixon's in­vasion, calling for withdrawal of American troops from Cambodia and asking Congress to set a firm date for withdrawal of our forces from Southeast Asia. A few days later, SMC President John McGrath stated his opposition to the war. 
Even more surprising, in some ways. was the turnout for the march to Howard Park, where we were to rally with students from IUSB, Holy Cross and other area schools. Over the previ­ous three years. demonstrations had attracted more and more students, as opposition to the war grew and as more students lost their fear of being 
'The initial reports out of 
Kent State were that the demonstrators had thrown rocks at the National Guard, but that turned out to be a lie. And African­American students were later angered that no one was as upset over similar shootings that week at Jackson State.' 
associated with the antiwar move­ment. 
The day we marched to Howard Park, however, was the first time I ever saw football players and cheer­leaders walking side-by-side with freaks and radicals. 
Laugh if you want, Colorado. We were there. 
Pete Peterson, Notre Dame '71, is Readership Services Manager at the Press-Republican newspaper in Plattsburgh. NY. He can be reached at MEPeterson@aol. com. 

Fridays, April 28, 1994 The Observer• WEEKEND page 13 
-


Giving to others: 
Big Brothers, Big Sisters make a difference in the lives of many youths 
By KIRA LODGE 
Accont Writor 
M
ichael McGlinn fondly remembers how he devel­oped a relationship as a big brother with 14 year-old Hobby. Not lacking a sense of humor, he recalls: "(Hobby's! grandmother worked in the dining hall. and because I frequented the dining hall so much, I just got to know her." Small talk between McGlinn and Hobby's grandmother in turn triggered a special rela­tionship between the two. 
Four years later McGlinn's commitment to one of South Bend's youths has inspired a new endeavor-The First Annual Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Big Brother/Big Sisttlr Concert Benefit. When asked, "So, how did you come up with this idea? Was it during a football game or what?" McGlinn. a graduate in Video Film and Production who returned to Notre Dame to play a fifth year of football, was interrupted by Tim O'Neil, who was rehearsing for his own performance, "Actually. it was with about three minutes left in the Michigan game." McGlinn laughed, "Yeah, I was thinking, 'What else could I do with my free time?'" 
In reality, McGlinn thought of organizing the benefit concert last semester, but was too busy with football to begin preparation. Thinking ahead, he immediately reserved Washington Hall for Sunday, April 30th. Coincidentally, Sunday marks the end of the National Big Brothers/Big Sisters Week. McGlinn hopes the con­cert will serve "the two-fold purpose of raising aware­ness about Big Brothers/Big Sisters among students and the Notre Dame community, as well as raise money. The apparent message of Big Brothers/Big Sisters isn't getting out. Instead of just being another club, these people really need to stand out." 
McGlinn's efforts have been accompanied by the hard work of Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Big Brothers/Big Sisters Association's president and president-elect, Karen Gunther and Ann Richardson. Currently, there are close to 100 members in Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Association; nevertheless, over 150 children in Saint Joseph County anxiously await a big brother or a big sis­ter. 
McGlinn keeps the numbers in perspective, "If only 1 percent of students would give a few hours of their time each week," there would be no waiting list. 
Both Gunther and McGlinn feel confident that Big Brothers/Big Sisters is a service organization in which an individual can make a difference. Gunther has been the big sister of 11 year-old Kristy for the last three years. "One of the greatest things is that there's consis­tency. These kids don't get enough attention or they get ntJgative attention." 
McGlinn encourages somebody to become a "Big's" because "the difference is so immediate. Somebody will join as a resume booster and then they gain more than the kid does." It is reassuring that McGlinn feels he has gained more than his little brother Hobby who can boast of such things as mingling with Notre Dame's football team. 
In order to ensure the concert's success, McGlinn con­tacted other campus musicians to participate in the ben­efit. "I went ahead and called a Jot of fine musicians 

Emily Lord will play in Sunday's Big Brother/Sister Benefit Concert. 
who have also been involved in service," he said. 
Sunday's concert will include campus favorites such as: Emily Lord, Kevin Fleming, Judy Hutchinson, Betsy Smith and Friends, The Kevin Burke Band, Jim McKiernan, Tim O'Neil, and of course, Michael McGlinn. The collaboration of these talented artists promises those in attendance much more than a sloth of musi­cians searching for recognition. Rather, those involved have already established their credibility. McGlinn "has been fortunate enough to make contacts with singers/songwriters in Nashville," where he is headed next year. While O'Neil, who returned to campus for the sole purpose of performing for AnTostal and the benefit concert, is currently working on a solo Irish album which will be marketed through Notre Dame. 
In addition to the musical performers, the successful preparation of the concert has been dependent upon a number of volunteers and donations. Bob Negal, a sports commentator for Notre Dame, will be the master of ceremonies. Negal, a former board member of Big Brothers/Big Sisters, has a special interest in the event. Furthermore, Gunther and Richardson have been busy producing a slide show for the concert with many of McGlinn's teammates and friends helping in the construction of the stage and the distribution of flyers and posters. 
McGlinn stresses that he has "not put this on single­handedly." His greatest hope is that the concert will become an annual event: "In thirty years from now when I return to campus, I hope this thing will still be going." If the time invested into the production of this event is any indication, the concert is sure to be a suc­cess. 
What: Big Brother/Sister Benefit Concert 
Where: Washington Hall 
When: 7 p.m. Sunday night 
Admission: $3 students, $4 general public 
(purchase tickets at the LaFortune Information Desk) 
·­
... 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Breen-Phillips Rector Judy Hutchinson strokes her way to Sunday's benefit concert. 
The Observer accepts dassifleds every business day &om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

-Classifieds 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 28, 1995 

NOTICES  Employment opportunity with an Architectural and Engineering firm located in historic Lafayette, Indiana  FOR RENT  FOR SALE MAC LCIIIS/160 (RAMIHD) 14" Color Monitor  Need 1 Graduation T. for my broth· er that come back from Austrailia for the 1st time in 4 yrs.  Amy Crawford­Happy B-dayl -D.B.  
for ARCHITECTURAL GRADUATE  ••••••••••NOTICE**••••••••••••  14.4 Fax Modem  Call Semo at x1754  
J  U  N  0  R  S  with AutoCAD proficiency and 3  If you are interested in living at  Some software included  Don't Forget Sophomores...  
months office experience. Resume  Turtle Creek next year, call Chris  $1700  I Need GRADUATION TICKETS  
U  SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  to H.L. Mohler & Associates, P.C.,  at 273·1399 as soon as possible.  Call 4-1457 for info.  call ED @ X4204  The CLASS SERVICE PROJECT  
OF RESUME AND DISK  839 Main Street, Lafayette. IN  at the NE Neighborhood is going  
N  TO CAREER & PLACE­ 47901  LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR­ FOR SALE:  NEED 5 GRAD. TIX FOR FAMILY  strong but can always use new vol­ 
MENT SERVICES FOR  NISHED HOMES NORTH OF NO  Macintosh !lSi w/personallaser  please call Dan @3669  unteers. Its a lot of fun • give it a try.  
RESUME BOOKS NOW!  IDEAL FOR 3-7 PEOPLE 2773097  writer printer. Must sell, can't store!  We leave at 2:30pm and  
L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in  Best offer by Monday, May 1.  Irish Grandparents need tickets for  3:30pm from Main Circle every  
0  DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util.  Call Byron at x1478.  graduation. Please call Carolyn at  Wednesday and Friday, and return  
LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  year of service creating community  624 Park (Historic District)  271-7895.  at 4:30. Call Brian x1058.  
R  with persons who are mentally dis·  Grad. Students pref. 232-6079  Pink loft and pink carpet • best  
abled. Responsibilities include:  offer. Call 284-5304  need 1 graduation ticket-call chris  
s  assist in creating a home based on  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  x1216  Spend some time during AnTostal  
the Gospel; develop relationships  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  486-dx/33 local bus, svga monitor  with underpriviledged kids!  
STAR TREK GENERATIONS  with members; and assist in per·  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  sound blaster+speakers, fax  For sale:2 tix to the Barber of  
-tonight & tomorrow  sonal care and community living.  modem, printer &word6.0,excel5.0  Seville for this Saturday Apr 29th  The Sophomore Class will be  
STRANGE BREW  Requirements include a desire to  Am available in 3 bedrm home for  ppoint4.0,wpdos6.0 and 50 games.  call x1771  adopting kids for two hours on FRI­ 
-TONIGHT!  live with, learn from, and relate with  summer/fall '95. $240 incl. utilities.  $1,050.  Ask for George  DAY APRIL 28 and take them  
Antostal & Movies...Doesn't get any  mentally disabled adults. Benefits  5-min drive. 232-7175 or 631-4809.  273-1483.  around to play games on the quad  
better than this.  include stipend, room, board, and health insurance. To apply, contact  Looking for roommates for Indian  90 white Geo Prizm. AC, automatic,  PERSONAL  and see our campus. Don't be embarrased to go bungee running  
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  Dottie Klein, L'Arche, 700 Arlington  Springs,3 BDRM, $200·$250/mo.  66,000 miles. Great Condition.  and human bowling this year ­ 
@  Rd., Jacksonville, FL 32211;  Call Mike@273·6499  Must see. $5,000 OBO. Must sell  000 The Copy Shop 000  adopt a little sibl To sign up or for  
-·  FREE PIZZAII FREE MAS­SAGES!!  (904)725-7740.  Female nonsmk grad student want­ in a few days. Call 273-6051  LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  more information, call Brian x1058.  
TONS OF OTHER FREE FOOD!!!II  ed to share spacious apt in historic  Moving off campus? Need some  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  
Balloon stomping, darts, punching  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  downtown.  Lrg windows, hardwood  furniture? We have it.  CONVENIENCE!!!  J  u  N  0  R  S  
begs, pillow fighting, finger painting,  BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  firs & fireplace. $200/mo. heat incl I  FOR SALE:  Phone 631-COPY  
basketball, and lots of other random  (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  Call Ailsa @ 4·3730  Coach· $25  U  SUBMIT PRINTED COPY  
stuff...Come to SUB's final exam  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  Dresser-$25  ADOPTION • A LOVING CHOICE  OF RESUME AND DISK  
stress reliever on Sun., May 7th  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929·  Furnished, 2-bdrm home. 1013  Single size bed (new) • $45  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse  N  TO CAREER & PLACE·  
from 9pm-12am In the LaFun  4398 ext. C1082  Cedar St. $450/mo. + utilities.  Desk· $45  happily married for seven years are  MENT SERVICES FOR  
Ballroom.  Lease & deposit. 273-0860.  Chair& Ottoman -Negot.  hoping to share our love with a  RESUME BOOKS NOW!  
COUNSELORS WANTED for  Call 271-0226.  child. We love the outdoors, have  
FREE FOOD, REAL MASSEUSE!!  Kwiwanls Twin Lakes Camp located  HOMES FOR RENT  comfortable home and country lake­ 0  DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU  
in Plymounth, Ind. This is a sum·  NEAR CAMPUS  Moving Off-Campus? Buy my  side cottage. Will provide secure,  LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY.  
@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@  mer camp for physically and men·  232·2595  bed,dresser,desk and TV for  loving home with full time mom.  R  
@  tally handicapped children and  CHEAP prices. Call Bob at 271­ Counseling and allowable expens­ 
young adults. Most campers are  SUBLET THIS SUMMER!  8370.  es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800·469­ s  
ATTENTION SENIORS who are  age 7 thru 21, but we have lifted the  College Park Condo­ 0559  
planning to VOLUNTEER next  age limit. The campers are from  2 females needed!  OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 2·4  Will you beat  
year-Come sign up at the esc to  the Chicago metro area and from all  272-1538  2-0akhill Condos.  EUROPE $199 o/w  IU-BLOOMINGTON  
be recognized at the VOLUNTEER  over the state of Indiana. We want  3-levels w/lower walkout. 3 BAS,  CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/1  during the 1995-96 schoolyear?  
SEND-OFF Friday, May 19th  you to have an interest in working  2 bedrooms in quiet neighbour­ 3 Baths • $99,900  If you can beat these prices start  I am looking for a female non-smok­ 
with disabled children. The camp  hood, close to campus. Use of  2 Brs, 2 Baths, spiral staircase  your own damn airline!  ing roommate.  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  sessions run from June 11 to  kitchen & laundry facilities. Summer  & garage· $78,500  AIR-TECH LTD. 2121219-7000  Margaret  271-1493  
Are you going to read those things  August 16 with orientation the week  and fall school year. Rent is $250  Each unit includes: fireplace,  info@ aerotech.com  
again? I think not. 2323·2342  prior . We provide room and board  per month. Call Paul at 232-2794.  appliances, pool & clubhouse  WE NEED YOU! WE NEED YOU!  
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  plus $1 ,000.00. If interested please  Coldwell Banker-277-8000  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  AnTostal is looking for volunteers  
call the camp's winter office 312·  Female Roomate needed 4  Ruth Ann Smith-235-3250  LaFortune Student Center  lor Thursday and Friday to help with  
767-CAMP  summer session $165/mo Call  ..J Quick tum around time!!!  events. Without your support these  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ 2334960  2-YR OLD PANASONIC PRINTER  ..J Most orders completed  events will not take place.  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  FOR SALE • PERFECT COND.  within 24 hours  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  Attention summer school students!  CALL VAL 4-2597  ..J Free pick-up & delivery  If you would like to help call Molly or  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME·  Looking for a responsible, fun-lov·  Share a faculty house $250/mo.  to & from departments  Tracy at 634-1291. Freebies avail­ 
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ ing student to babysit my 2 children,  +1/2 utilities call287-1449  ..J Caii631-COPY  able to volunteers.  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  ages 5&7, 2·3 afternoons per week  4 piece Tama Granstar drums w/ all  
2-6pm in my Granger home. Please  hardware & zildjian cymbals. Most  There will be a PARTY! In celebra­ Come to North Quad volunteer  
call 277-5786.  College Park Condo for rent this  pieces excellent condition, bass a  tion of all the fabulous fun that has  booth or call right away.  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  summer. Call271-7895.  bit less so. Real bargain at $600.  happened this year in the QUEER  
GIFTS. 256·6657  <jbdougla@indiana.edu> or  community. Call the Q-line for  Michelle is dumping Krista  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from  SUMMER SALES OPPORTUNITY. Looking for ambitious student(s) for  FOR SALE  <douglass.1 @nd.edu> or 272· 7417.  more info 287-6665. So pull out those party outfits and diva music  for a career at TGI Friday's This is their last show ever  
around the world.  summer advertising sales in South  and come if you are GAY or sup­ on  
GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune  Bend area and Northwest Indiana.  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  portive and be Friendly,happy, smil­ WVFI AM640  
Student Center, April 25·28  Must have automobile. Call  at $85,900. First floor location.  For Sale: Student membership  ing, PARTY people!  Listen Today 11:30am to 1:30pm  
R.oom 108 9am-6pm.  Enterprise Publishing at 1-800·374­ Finished basement with full lavato·  (Great rate!) to Pinnacle Megaclub.  And WEEP.  
2253.  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  including full use of free weight  Lisa & Andrea missed the boalll  Bis spaeter Michelle.  
ground level. Lease back to owner  room, aerobics, sauna, jacuzzi, etc.  Fellow Seniors· We need a booze  lnnsbruck forever.  
through May, 1995. Call  Good through summer 1996. Call  cruise ticket and fast! X2514-Will  
An uncooperative Administration  Sales & Marketing Intern  (616)946-0700.  Katie X4089 today!  pay a handsome ransom!!  
has ordered rain today, so...  South Bend based sales firm is  Looks like I picked the wrong week  
The Antostal Gods sayeth:  looking for summer intern. You will  86 HONDA PRELUDE Si  I ned a ride to EASTERN MASS  to quit sniffing glue!  
assist in developing sales promo·  Want to connect to the camps net­ red 5spd  after graduation. Will split  
BREWFEST '95  lion and marketing campaign,  work (e-mail, www. fetch, internet,  Must Sell 4-2475  gas/tolls/etc. Please call soon.  OINK! OINK!  
HAS BEEN MOVED  developing database, conducting  etc) or any other on-line service?  Tom x1712  St. Patrick's Park  
marketing research and getting  Super fast modem for sale that also  If you're planning on living off-cam­ Thank you.  North on Juniper to Auten.  
Strange Brew will be shown In The  hands-on experience with sales  sends faxes and has voice mail as  pus next year, we have some fumi·  Left on Auten across 31.  
Huddle (not the Ubrary)  calls & customer service.  well! All software included for cam­ ture you might want to buy.  Man on the radio said Elvis Presley  Right on Laurel.  
Our firm, a home based business,  pus connection as well as faxing  We kept it real clean and want to  died  Straight to park.  
FREE PIZZA, FOOD, and other  has grown 50% annually for over  and voicemail features. New;  sell it soon. Call 271-1390 if you're  Come pretty baby, let's go out  11 to 6ish  
stuff  five years. We sell fixtures and  $149.95 ... your price: $95! Only  interested in big desks, shelves, a  tonight  OINK! OINK!  
ILOST & FOUND I equipment to the retail industry. Our accounts range from single location Independent retail operators to multi-billion dollar/ multi-national  four months old! 6163 for info.  Call Matt at 273·  couch with pull-out bed, lamp tables, lamps, and more.  Driving to NJ or Long Island after finals?  OINKI OINK! Catch the pig ride at the turtle river near the cactus.  
corporations.  very cool LOFT for sale X2533  Soprano SAX, Caravella Brittany,  Want some company?  
LOST: Vlvltar AF 200 35 mm cam·  Candidate ideally is familiar with  $800, call x4200  Call Kristen x2339  Kiddo,  
era at an apartment on Lance Court  Macintosh, a creative thinker with  Painted loft with shelves 4salel  Don't stress, the Farmer will be  
or viclnlty during the Shadowlands  experience in graphics & layout.  x3806  FOR SALE:  back in the Fall, but then I'm going  
cast party on Fri. April 21. Name  Must be self-starter and goal orient·  Macintosh LC II and Monitor  catch the pig ride at the turtle river  back to Cali, Cali. Cali.  
and home address on back.  ed.  2 ONE-WAY FLIGHTS TO  4 MB RAM, 75 MB Hard Drive  near the cactus.  oink  • An lllinios Farmer  
Sentimental value; no questions  No fancy office ..no prestige just an  FT. MYERS, FL., SAT. 5/10. $125  • Includes Word, ClarisWorks and  
asked If returned.  unique opportunity. Call for appoint­ EA. 277-2488.  other Software.  N  
REWARD. call Sue x1522  ment.  • Great for Word-processing!  DAVID SPADE  OK so I'm an Amigo, shoot mel  
Group Four Marketing, Inc.  EPSON LX-810 printer. Used for  • $500 or best offer  the funniest  But don't break my legs!!  
Manufacturers' Representative  1 sem. Make offer. Call Janina·  ·Call Michelle at 4·1489  SNL COMEDIAN  D  
219-271·8500 South Bend, IN  1412  is COMING!!  
I jost a book .~lied Revolutionary  Friday, April28  8:00pm  listen roomie- 
Phrases by Lenin. The cover has a  HOME FOR FISH-AN OSCAR AND  SONY CFD-510 CD/CASS/AMFM  Stepan Center  $3 at Info Desk  You may have been right about  
big picture of Lenin's faca. If you  SUCKER -FOR SUMMER AND OR  89 red Nissan Sentra. Only 44,000  STEREO Uke New. Bought 8 mos  the snorting, but the purring will  
found It, please call John at 271·  NEXT YEAR-WE'RE GRADUAT·  miles, Great Condition, Must see.  ago for $180. Make me an offer @  HADOII  If you notice this one, you  never end!  
1390.  lNG. CALL 277-1704.  $4000 OBO. Call273 8428  4·1060  deserve MUMSES. After what hap­ 
pened six months ago today, mum­ Here is your message -short &  
LOST: multi-colored a  Need 1 graduation ticket x4200  89 red Nlssan Sentra. Only 44,000  TICKETS  ses here and there aren't too much to ask... :)  simple • while I'm crushing your head.  
nkle bracelet; last seen In front of  Miles, Great Condition, Must See  
neuwland. please call x26441  ******"'*"'**WANTED*********•••••••  $4000 OBO. Call273 8428  Need a lot of extra graduation tick·  Looks like I picked the wrong week  White Trash Barbeque  
I need a Mountain bike in good con­ ets. x3711  to quit drinking  Lots of fun with burgers!  
dillon.  --VW---JETTA GLI  W. Wade likes ribs though.  
FOUND: Men's wristwatch with  Call Mike at X41 00  16V---VW-­ I need graduation tickets. Please  SABOR  LATINO  Come and have fun with drinks.  
readily Identifiable wristband found  •1990 -spotless, no rust owhite  call Lisa at 277·0740  
bet. Siegried and Knott. Call Matt  •sunroof •manual •new sport tires  Tonight, 10:30 pm  Need a weightiifting partner? Call  
x3315 to claim.  Please help me, I am desperate  •looks and runs like new •$9500  I Need Graduation Tickets  Club23  Todd Murphy at x1672.  
for extra graduation tickets for my  call now: 284·5261  289·3203 Mike.  Need a plasma doning partner?  
WANTED  Grandparents! Will pay good $$1 Call Jose' at 4·3564.  Pinnacle Megactub Memberships  For Sale:  SABOR  LATINO  Call the frog at x1672.  
(2): All you have to pay is mo. fee.  2 one way flights to Ft. Myers Fla.  Opening band:  Have you written a book lately? It  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  lnit. fee already paid.  Sat. May 10  True North (Reverend Funk)  may be better to read one first. Call  
Seasonal & full-time employment  Need person to ride with me on  **Call Rick 271-0764  $125 each. call277·2488  @ 9pm  Big Mike at x1633 for details.  
available at National Parks, Forests  route to Omaha, NE. Will leave  
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  May 12 @ noon. Will have room  LOFT4SALEII  I need two extra graduation tickets  NO's #1 & #2 @ Club 23 I  Don'\ forget--Bookstore Basketball  
bonuses! Call: 1-206·545-4804 ext.  for some stuff. Please call Rachael  in excellant condition  for my brothers. If you can help me  Hall of Fame game--3:15 at the  
N55843  #4667.  Call x3831  out call Jose@ 4-1661  SABOR  LATINO  Bookstore. Celebs vs. Superheroes  



--------~---------~-~---~~-~-------------~---~ 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• SOFTBALL 
Wet weather spoils game 



Merchandise Blowout 
F'Sir 
r.t.rt Polar Fleece $50 S.;sl
0 


Hooded Sweatshirts:$35 
All 
other me rchandise 20% off 
r ~ 
Main Lounge, LaFortune Student Center Friday, 4/28/95: 12:00-8:00pm Saturday, 4/29/95: 9:00-7:00pm 
The Observer/Scott Mendenhell 
Senior Michele Cline's fielding has been an asset to the 31-13 Irish this season. 
r---------------:~---------. 
SATURDAY 

APRIL 29 
10:00P.M.-1 :OO.A.M. 
~AI NT MARY'S COLLEGE CENTER 



$1.00 
SPONSORED BY SMC ITALIAN CLUB AND ND ITALIAN CLUB 
By NEIL ZENDER 
Sports Writer 
This has been the wettest April in Indiana history. But don't tell Notre Dame softball coach Uz Miller. She's noticed. Yesterday's game against DePaul was rained out -for the second consecutive day. The Irish have had more rainouts than Dick Clark has had facelifts -well almost. But for now, Notre Dame (31-13) is just 
praying that tomorrow's home doubleheader against Indiana doesn't get drowned out too. 
"I'm just hoping for nice weather on Saturday," Miller 
London  $U9  
Paris  $U9  
Frankfurt  $~  
Madrid  $319  
TokyoRome  $440 $3g9  

For=.cr..=n:Jr~~Yr:ll~"3~ 
~., subjoct to change and/or avail=, 
~­
1•800•KOUNCI. 
1•800• 

said. "Right now we just need to get out and have a good practice. We need to keep fo­cused and work on basic fun­damentals." 
The noon game promises be an exciting matchup. The Hoosiers return every player from last year's club, which won the Big-Ten title and was the region's top ranked team. Meanwhile, this is a pivotal doubleheader for the Irish. 
"Right now, with the number of games left, every game is crucial because of the regional rankings. It's not a matter of one game being more impor­tant than the other. Every game is big." 
Notre Dame needs some solid hitting from Elizabeth Perkins, Meghan Murray, and Kara McMahon who have struggled lately. 
"This week has helped them to get a lot more swings," Miller said. "You don't get that many when you play a lot of games like we've been doing over the past weeks." 
.k.~ GREAT \YALL 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 

(219) 272-7376 • 130 Dixieway S. (U.S. 3lin Roseland) at Randall's Inn South Bend, IN 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sund•y $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children under 10 
I 

The Irish also need to over­come injuries. Although pitch­er Joy Battersby has recovered well from a back injury, ace hurler Terri Kobata is day to day. Kobata's hip flexor is an enigma, hurting her one day and not the next. It appears that the hip flares up in cold weather. 
"Her leg was a real problem today." Miller said. "It was the worst it's been for a week and a half. I really think it's weath­er related. She hasn't pitched since last Saturday and it hurt her to walk." 
Still, if the weather's good look for Kobata to be on the mound. 
Hayes sustained a deep thigh bruise while protecting the plate last Saturday against Cleveland State. However, Miller is confident she'll play. 
Battersby is scheduled to start the first game and Kobata the second. Oh yeah, it's also scheduled to rain. 

[ 
r • BASEBAll 
I I I I 
I Irish closer to MCC title 
I 
By NEIL ZENDER the Irish the Irish a 5-2 lead. It innings all season. Mainieri Sports Writer was Sollmann's fifteenth career feels it was pitching coach
I 
triple, a Notre Dame team Brian O'Conner's fine work that
I 
On Wednesday the Tide was record breaking Shaun prepared them to pitch under
I in and the No. 22 Notre Dame Fitzmaurice's mark of fourteen fire. baseball club took a 9-1 ham­set in the early 1960's. "Pitching coaches have a ten­mering at the hands of The 5-2 lead didn't last long. dency to only work with the Alabama. Last night, the Tide After Sollmann was put out on starting rotation but Brian went out and the Irish re­an Amrhein fielder's choice, takes a lot of pride in working
I sponded by swamping a tough Ryan Topham blasted a ball to­with t.he rest of the staff. They Eastern Illinois club 9-3. wards rightfield that was last stepped up and took control of
I 
·"I'm really proud of the way picked up by radar somewhere the ballgame for us." our guys came back," coach near the Canadian border. The Mainieri is hoping the club Paul Mainieri said. "We've been rightfielder's seventeenth home will continue to step up this doing that all year. When we run of the season gave the Irish weekend. They play double­don't play well guys don't hang a five-run cushion. headers at Northern Illinois on their heads. They just bear Saturday and Sunday. The down and come back strong the Notre Dame never would Irish only need two wins to next day." have climbed back into the clinch the MCC title. 
Notre Dame (33-14) fought game without their bullpen. 
--~ ­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 

Sophomore third baseman Mike Amrhein tied yesterday's game up with an RBI single in the bottom of the third. 
back from a 2-0 deficit in the  The Panthers sent starter Mike  
bottom of the third. Randall Brooks' walk turned into a run  Balicki to the showers in the second but the Irish brought in  The  Student Union  Board  and  Student Activities Present:  
when pitcher Brian Neal balked  a string of relievers who coolly  
him  home.  Craig  DeSensi  defanged the Panthers.  
scored on Mike Amrhein's sin­ Wally Widelski (2-0) relieved  
gle to knot the contest at 2-2. ·  Balicki in the second and went  
The Irish took control of the  3.1 inning to pick up the win.  
game for good in the fourth,  He was followed by Larry Mobs  
scoring five unearned runs on  in the sixth inning who in turn  
two  hits and three  errors.  was replaced by Rich Sauget  
Sophomore Scott Sollmann  for the ninth.  The relief trio  
tripled home three runs giving  had thrown  a  combined 43  

UNUSUAL SUMMER JOB ON CAMPUS 
WNDU needs a vacation relief technician for summer employ­ment from May through September to install, operate, maintain, and repair radio, television, cable, and satellite equipment. This is 
.ideal for a technically-minded science/ engineer student with a knowledge of electricity and electronics. The position is for up to 40 hours per week, includes shiftwork, and requires a valid dri­ver's license and transportation. Please apply at the WNDU Studios by May 5th. 
HEY TONTO 

HOPE YOU GET SOME SUGAR TONIGHT! 

HAPPY 

BIRTHDAY 
BED'N'BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
Rooms in private homes for: 
JPW, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 

Do you want to stay in your dorm and study all summer, OR would 
you like to have a SOCIAL LIFE?  
To have your name and phone # added to a list that will  
be posted in Lafortune for all summer school students:  
1.) Call Student Government at 1 x 6283  
OR 2.) E-mail us at studegov.l@nd.edu  IACTION II]:))~~ •. ·.·.·.·.·.· :  
STUDENT GOVERNMENT  

Simply indicate that you will be here and give us your# by May 3rd.!!! And of course, any other comments or questions about absolutely any topic are always welcome! 


.. 
Friday, April 28, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• TRACK AND fiELD 
Irish hope for more qualifiers to NCAA's 

. . <tastfe 8or a(e
Lve like a King or Queen m your own imported marble castle. With two balconies overlooking lmge courtyard on 3/4 of a beautifully landscaped acre. Walking distance to Notre Dame. Raist.J Ranch with private entrance and lower level walk-out. Total of 3,876 sq. ft.! Feature 4 bed­rooms, including large 31x23 round bedroom, 2 full fireplaces, 2 full kitchens, 3-l/2 baths including sunken tub. Imported marble tlu:oughout the house. Extra large meeting room, intercom, security systems, & all applianCI..'S included. Unique and one of a kind, must be seen to be appreci­ak'<L Priced way below market value at $149,000. Extra 3/4 vacant lot also avaJable. 
Cal/ Ted, Re/Max 100 Reality at 256-716() or wiremai/235-3786 
thefillalt 


·r~n., 
.Friday.~_::: 
,1 Football & ·u:~··~:~.,~ •.~,...... , 
--.-----,~:00-10:30) 
STRANGE BREWTOSTAL(movie) Lafun Ballroom @ 11 pm(wrong in the classilledl)~ FREE pizza, popcorn, cotton candy, and ice (bring your AnTostal bottle to drink out of) 
Star Trek:Generations 

8:00 & 10;30 @ Cushing Auditorium 24 hour Charity Run w/ AFROTC 4 pm Friday -4 pm Saturday 

Saturday 
Blue and Gold game Bookstore Basketball Final Four Murder Mystery --run by Flipside 
7 ·12 pm, Lafun Ballroom 
Celebrate a friend·s birthday with a sPecial Observer ad. 
FLOUNDER: WE.YOU KEVIN, HAPPY 21ST!! 
PEG, ZEUS, SR. & ROBIN ZEUS, }R., MEG, MAURA, TARA, CODY, & ELVIS 

***mosaic or 
home address: 
They have a good shot at finish­ing in the top three or four." 
Several men also have an ex­cellent chance of joining team­mates Mike McWilliams and Joe Dunlop as the only mem­bers of the squad to have quali­fied for the NCAA Championships in June. 
Leading the way for the Irish runners are freshman Danny Payton (400 meters), junior Joe Curran (800), senior Joe Royer (1500). junior Jeff Hojnacki (800), sophomore Matt Althoff (1500), junior John Cowan (3000) and freshman Errol Williams (110 meter hurdles). 
"Each weekend becomes more important in terms of qualifying for the NCAA's," said Payton. ''I'd have to say I'm pleased with my progress so far in the outdoor season, but the goal of course is to get my time low enough for the NCAA's." 
In the field events, those con­sidered to have a good chance of qualifying include junior Todd Johnston (high jump), senior Brian Headrick, sopho­more David Gerrity (pole vault), senior Dan Grenough (pole vault), junior Mike Fleisch (shot put), senior Greg Moretti (ham­mer throw) and sophomore Greg Wilson (javelin). 
"We expect to have several more of our athletes qualify before· it is all said and done," said head coach Joe Piane. "They just need to get some more experience in and the confidence will come. There is still plenty of time left in the season, so we're pretty confi­dent at this point in the year." 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Spons Writer 
Two of a kind, working on a full house. 
With just two athletes having earned qualifying marks for the NCAA Championships so far this season, the Irish track and field team hopes to add several other names to the list heading into the final month of the year. 
However, their work will cer­tainly be cut out for them this weekend when they face some of the toughest competition in the country at the Drake Relays in Des Moines, Iowa. 
"This weekend will tell a lot as far as who will qualify for the NCAA's," said assistant coach Tim Connelly. "It's been hard to judge how much progress they've made because of the weather. They have been training well, and I'm confident they'll put it together in the last month." 
Four of Notre Dame's top women will be competing in the 4 X 800 and medley relays this weekend. On Friday, sopho­more Alison Howard (400 meters), freshman Berit Junker (800), junior Amy Siegel (1200), and senior Emily Husted (1600), will be competing in the medley relay. The same quar­tet will try their luck in the 4 X 800 on Saturday. 
Also competing for the squad this weekend will be seniors Kristi Kramer, Maureen Kelly, and Sarah Riley in the 10000 meters, junior Kristen Dudas and sophomore Lindsay Dutton in the 5000 meters, and senior Monica Cox in the 110 meter hurdles. 

"Each girl is capable of get­ting the qualifying time this weekend against some good competition," said Connelly. "The relays we're sending are the best we've had all year. 
page 18 
The Observer • SPORTS 


Elite eight games up for grabs 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA Sporn Writer 
The rain-soaked Bookstore Basketball XXIV slides over to the Bookstore courts today for the elite eight. Today's games feature everything a basketball fan could ever want. 
No. 1 Models Inc. vs. No. 9 Sweeter Than Candy 
The Sweet Sixteen confirmed Models' No. 1 seed as they toyed with CASH, 21-9. Tracy Graham ran the point for Models and his penetration cre­ated numerous opportunities Bookstore games, and NBT 2's Mark Zataveski and Ben Foos are two of the best in the busi­ness. However, guard Tom Rhinehart will need to counter the quick hands of C.C. E. 

C.C.E.'s Derek Gustafson and Joe Link could be the two most underrated remaining players. 
"Link could be a 'liability' on my team any day," said Keith Zoilkowski. "Derek has stepped up nicely and played great." 
No. 3 Rebel Alliance vs. No. 6 Pink Sky in the Morning Many observers think that the seeds in this game should be 
Kloskas' three trees inside. 
Showtime has been on fire the whole tournament, and looks to continue the streak. 
"Our team has played to­gether a long time and we've gained a good feel for each other," said Jeff Enes. "That will help late in a close game." 
Kloskas has been continually tested throughout, and this may help their chances. 
"We're the underdog," said Pete Coleman. "But I thought our team finally came together tonight in a tough game." 


. , , The Observer/Brian Hardy 
S

howt1me s Trav1s Smith makes a pass against We're the Truth. 
for forward Greg Midget. If reversed. Rebel's familiarity
Jason Williams continues to with one another makes them a light it up from the outside, dangerous team and Pink Sky's Models will not be challenged. athleticism scares everybody. 
"I respect the other teams," Rebel's half court game fea­
THis SPRING, COME CHECK OUT ST, PATRICK'S PARK
sp.id Graham. "We're just that tures Pat Keaney's size. good and we won't get beat." "We need to be patient," said Sweeter Than Candy will not Joe Bergan. "We get good shots back down after a convincing by passing the ball around." 
• LOCATED ON THE MICHIGAN BORDER,
21-15 win over Hood River. Pink Sky's quick guards and "I feel good about our Leon Wallace's soft touch make 
ON THE Sr. JOSEPH's RIVER
chances, but we have to make them exciting to watch. all our shots," said Reinhardt. "A dry court will make us No. 2 NBT2 vs. No. 7 C.C.E. quicker," said LaRon Moore. 

'
The defending champ NBT2 No. 4 Showtime vs. No. 5 Dos 
• CANOE RENTALS AVAILABLE

has a difficult test with a fired­Kloskas 
Auten Rd

up C.C.E. squad. Both teams On paper, this game is filled won convincingly to set up this with matchup problems for 
marquis matchup. both teams. Showtime's three 
• GREAT FOR PICNICSJ 

Big men usually win great shooting guards will meet 
Cleveland Rd 
EFFICIENCY AND 1BEDROOM APARTMENT AVAILABLE Mar-Main Arms Apartments 125 WEST MARION STREET (219) 233 -2098  • MANY BEAUTIFUL NATURE TRAILS Toll Road • OUTDOOR AMP/THEATER • PARK GATES OPEN 10 AM DAILY  
Take A Break, Clean Du Lakes The Alumni Association in conjunction with the Student Alumni Relations Group (SARG) will be hosting an Alumni Senate service project on Sunday, April30, 1995. The event will be held from 10:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. around the lakes. During this time we want to clean up the litter around the lakes which hides the beauty ofan integral part ofour campus. Meet at the Boathouse, near the Power Plant.  

Friday, April 28, 1995 
line." This strategy was particularly
Bookstore 
effective, as Keaney led the 
cpntinued from page 24 
5 DOS KLOSKAS each struggled before wearing down their opponents. 
Robel got off to a particularly rocky start, as the crazed ARCOLA fans inspired their team to a 7-4 lead. 
"We got hung up on their picks initially," commented Hebel's Bryan Corbett. "We fig­ured out that we had to get the ball in the middle to Pat Keaney and let him look to the base-Rebels on a 9-1 run to end the game, a 21-17 victory. Keaney's dead-eye foul shoot­ing down the stretch ensured the win. 
"It was an even battle, but they solved our zone by half­time," stated ARCOLA's Joe Feller. 
"Once they got the ball inside they got us in foul trouble and converted from the line." 
No. 5 seed DOS KLOSKAS came out as strong as they have all tournament, and then were 
WITNESS THE TRANSFORMATION AS BARB WILSON TURNS 21! 


SATURDAY NIGHT 
+-Before After-+ 



AT CLUB 23 
-l 
I
able to survive 
I
Round 16 QuarterFinals QuarterFinals Round 16
a lull during 
I
Stepan 2 1995 Stepan 7 
the middle of 
I 
the game to 
I 
beat the 
I 
IDiamondbacks 
I
21-16. 
I
"We had them in foul trouble, so we wanted to bang it down low and finish them off with foul shots," explained Mike Kloska. 
1

And they did just that, end­ing the game on a 5-0 run that included 

_13.W~.Showtlme

three free 
throws. 1 
DiamondbacksL________ point guard Jimmy Keenan made an impact on the game, game down," continued Kloska. refused to let his team fall out forcing the teams into a battle "It's more physical, you have of contention, coming up with of half court sets, and sending to hold on to your guy, people crucial steals on numerous pos-numerous players sliding to the are falling down -it wears you sessions down the stretch. ground. down." 
page 19

The Observer • SPORTS 



Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds.
2()/l)€-E~ 
a sort ofplay 
Hampshire
by A.R. Gurney 
Country Club 
A Faculty Recital Featuring 
27 Hole Championship 
Course

Katie Sullivan Mike D. Morris 
Open to Public

Thursday and Friday, May 4 and 5, 8 p.m. 
Reservations required 

Moreau Center/Little Theatre 
weekends only. 
Admission Free 
29592 Pokagon Hw. 

Depanmenl olCommunlcatlon. 
Saint Mat·s Colle~ 
Dowagiac, Ml 49047
Dance lrTheaIN
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 
616-782-7476 


6 PINK SKY IN THE MORNING 7 CCE  STEPAN COURTS 5:00P.M.  
4:00P.M.  
2 NBT/1  

CHAMPIONSHIP GAME 
STEPAN COURTS 3:00P.M. 

-TateNiQht l;ec'i:i -, r---u-;;t7" fNue--, r---L";;ciiSpecial--, (9:00p.m. until closing) I 1 One Topping 1 I 1-10" Small I 1-14" Large I I §695 I
I I 2Topping Pizza 1Topping Pizza I I 1i 14" Large I I with 1can of Coke I I
$59~ I I : Sneii~ :I I $59~ I 



r--------~P~~--~e-~------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~-----T~h~e~O~b=se~~~e~~~S~-P~Rl~~N~-~~--F~O~--~O~T~B~AL==L~------------------------~~-----­
1 
Linemen's : I play not so : f offensive 
1 Florida State 
I I I 
this season 2 Nebraska 
3 Florida
By MIKE NORBUT Spons Editor 4 Texas A&M 
It's only fitting that the 5 Penn State biggest guys on the Notre Dame football team could comprise 6 Auburn the biggest problem for coach Lou Holtz. 7 Alabama 
"I'm concerned about our of­fensive line," the coach said. · 8 Notre Dame "They haven't developed a co­hesiveness yet." 9 Southern Cal* 
The Irish had many problems 10 Tennesseelast year, but the most striking was the ineffectiveness of the Irish Opponents* offensive line. The perennially strong running game was 14 Ohio State* nonexistent, and the only pass­
17 Washington*
ing attack came from scram­The Observer/Scott Mendenhal bling passes by Ron Powlus and Sophomore Chris Clevenger has been slated to start at left tackle on the offensive line next 18 Texas* diving catches by Derrick year. 
The Observer/Tom Roland 
Mayes. No thanks to the line. 
Dusty sprained his ankle." 
"The offensive line has It was only a minor sprainlearned a valuable lesson from 

sustained during last 
last year," Holtz continued. "It Saturday's scrimmage, but it was a rough year. We couldn't was enough to keep Zeigler out run, and we couldn't pass." 
of tomorrow's Blue-Gold game.
It got so bad that the coach Sophomore Rich Kaczenski has 

reshuftled the starting five nine stepped in with the No. 1 of­times in the 12-game season, fense as Ziegler's replacement. never settling on the same "When someone's missing, it combination for more than two hurts the team's consistency,"
weeks in a row. 
Clevenger continued. "Dusty's a But it's a completely new leader, but it's no big deal. He's 
group that has emerged as the only been out for two prac­starting unit this spring. 
tices." 
Sophomores Mike Doughty and And in the big picture, the Chris Clevenger have been in· 
Blue-Gold game is just another stalled at tackle, junior Dusty practice, just another chance to 
Zeigler is at center, and junior work together. They'll have all Jeremy Akers will join fifth· kinds of days like that come year senior Ryan Leahy at the fall, and plenty of time to devel­guard positions. op as a unit. But it's also plenty 
It's a good mix of youth and 

of time for the coaching staff to experience, one that could set get on their collective case. 
the stage for great Irish offen­"The coaches have been sive lines in years to come. But 
putting a lot of pressure on all 
strength in the upcoming year of us to improve," Clevengeris what Notre Dame needs, and said. "Because it's importantit could take more than just a 
that the guys that start next few spring practices to obtain year get a lot of time togetherit. this year, and we grow as a 
"It'll take time playing to­unit." gether for us to grow as a unit, 
If that doesn't happen, there 
but we'll get better," Clevenger could be more lessons learned 

said. "We were doing fme until next year. 

STUDENT RATES WEEKDAYS$5 
>· 
WEEKENDS$6 SPRING PASS $30 
Pro Shop Hours of Operation Weekdays 6:30 a.m.-4:00 p.m. Weekends 6:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. 
Tee Times Available Friday & Weekends 
631-6425 

I 
0 -0 0 • ~ 0 0 
L--...:~ ·_: __:_..:_;-·~ ---•.,---. 


Friday, April 28, 1995 




Spring game a huge draw 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assisram Sporrs Ediwr 
Even though it doesn't count in the polls, twenty thousand Irish fans annually flock across the country to the house Hockne built to watch the game and dream of future champi­onships. 
It is a game in which legends are made. Who can forget the first appearance of the yellow jersey-clad Ron Powlus. He es­tllblished himself in Irish lore and had many calling him "the messiah" by completing his first, highly anticipated Irish pass attempt to tight end Pete Chryplewicz for a touchdown. 
When the Irish take to the field in Notre Dame Stadium this Saturday at 1:30 p.m. for the annual Blue and Gold game, a new era begins. 
After a disappointing 6-5-1 season, the Irish needed to come out of spring practice with solid first offense and de­fense teams. More specifically, they needed to strengthen their lagging offensive line and add some experience to their young defensive backfield. At the end of the spring season, it looks like they did just that. 
They were able to establish Chris Clevenger and Mike Doughty at the tackle positions and Dusty Ziegler is becoming one of the best centers in the nation. And while the offensive line is becoming settled, the young defensive backfield is forming an identity. Allen Rossum and Ivory Covington are battling for the cornerback position across from Shawn Wooden, and Jarvis Edison has moved into the starting free safety spot after LaRon Moore was suspended indefinitely. Although Rossum, Covington and Edison are only freshman, they are establishing them­selves as potential solid starters. 
This year will depart from 
traditional Blue and Gold match-ups. In the past the teams have been drafted by the assistant coaches directing the two teams. This year they have decided not to split up the team's chemistry and to keep the number one units together. This may create a lopsided game, but Holtz is more con­cerned with solidifying his number one teams. 
Entering the spring season, Holtz said, "In the past when we divided up, it just broke up all continuity." 
Offensive line coach Joe Moore will lead the number one units and wide receivers coach Tom Clements will command the second unit. Lou Holtz will watch the game from the press box. 
Admission is free for all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents with ID. The game will also be televised on delay. Channel 46 will air it locally at 6p.m. 
\r 

The Observer/Soon Mendenhall Either Covington (left) or Rossum (right) will be starting at a comer­back position opposite senior Shawn Wooden next year. 

Rivalry 
continued from page 24 
very much present this spring, but one difference exists. There may he answers. Their names, Rossum and Covington. But which one will it be? 
"Right now, we're virtually tied," said Covington. "We've both had good springs. The game will decide who gets the job." 
Upon first look, the two look the same. Similarly sized and numbered (Rossum wears no. 15, while Covington's back reads 14, the diminutive duo at times look like brothers. 
"He's a little taller (5-foot-9, 155 pounds)," the 5-foot-7, 174 pound Rossum said of Covington. "But I weigh more." 
Neither possesses great size, but they feel their skill and ath­letic ability compensate nicely. 
"We both have good, quick feet," said Rossum. "He plays 
"Track was a good experi­ence and fun," Rossum com­mented. "Coach Holtz know I can find the balance between football, track, and school­work." 
While he may not quite have the speed, Covington does have one thing on Rossum -experi­ence. 
The Decatur, GA native logged almost 30 minutes of game time last season, earning a start against Colorado in the Fiesta Bowl. His most memo­rable moment came in the Los Angeles Coliseum when he stopped a key USC drive with an interception. 
"That was nice," Covington noted. "Actually, I had one ver­sus Navy but was bumped by a linebacker and dropped it." 
One thing Covington is not likely to drop is his relationship with Rossum. 
"We're both competing for the same job, but that won't change our friendship," Covington explained. 
Maybe not next season, but


the ball a bit better than I do, 
(INEMAI<K IHFATRFS 

some time in the near future,but my closing speed is good." 
that chemistry should prove in­
Have something to say? 
To be a bit more descriptive, valuable as the pair will likelythat speed was good enough to see action together, but until

Use The Observer classifieds. 
garner Rossum a 6th place fin­then, all the focus is on tomor­
ish in the 55m. at the NCAA 
row.
track championships. 
•KID II DBI!Miltz:55,3:20.5:48,8:00,10:ZO •hrrut Guiiii(PG) 1:00,4:00,7:00,10:00 •llollns Cldlnu(R) 1:20.4:05,7:10,10:10•a. Clre(PG·13l t:D5,3:30,5:50,B:II5,10:25 
~travel more •CIIUI ol Frleiiii(PG·13) 1:30,4:20,7:20,8:50 •1111 J1111 OeMII'Cil(PG·13l 12:50,3:10,5:30,7:45,10:05 

'8/Carlson Tr~veLNetvyork 
•M~II' PIYJIII(PG·13l 1:10,3:25,5:45.7:55,10:15 
~ 

•Miflals Wei!IIP,I(R) 1:35,4:10.7:05,9:45 
• Till Tlle(PGJ 1:25,3:35,5:35 •Eiodca(R) 7:48,8:55 

Europe!! 
•I'BliiB ltd 1118 Pllll(JJIII(G) 1:15,3:05,5:00 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is
•Tlla MlileU of Klllg Geo~G-13) 7:15,8:40 ,, 7> fiLl SEATS tmotlE 6 Pl.l 
your local Europe Travel Specialist
Let us send you to Europe! 
*Airfares Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates. 
IWIY SIIIERI·O.. 

Low airfares to Europe. ~(t!IJ'EiniJl • ~WIJCAIIDNA~ • (2191m-26.'Ai 
*Rail Passes Rail Passes issued in our office' 
No service fee• 
Timetables, prices, tickets ,w,Jil,lble 1 
Jfoon 

*Car Rentals Discounted car rentals! 
Available in all European Countries! 
*Experience Over 20 years experience working with 
&mky GkeJ 
'l.afay GkeJ 

Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students 
12.fl0 noon lo 6.fl0 plTL
~ 

and faculty travelling to Europe. 
ldJn.,JJy 12.fl0 noon lo J.fJO plTL 
']~ 12.fl0 noon loJ.fJO plTL 

We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 
1723 South Bend Ave.
Jriday 12.fl0 noon lo J.fl) plTL 

-Next to the Notre Dame campus­
&!utdaj JO.fJO a.m./o 400 pm. 

(219) 271-4880 
:J!fXJinlmenh :Jooi/a6/e 



f 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS 
•LACROSSE 

Irish face important games 
By DAVE TREACY 
Sports Writer 
With two must-win games left in the season, it's crunch time for the Irish. 
After the loss to UMass, which dropped Notre Dame (6-4) to 14th in the USILA poll, their only hope of returning to the NCAA tournament is to win the G.reat Western Lacrosse League title. 
The road to the tournament goes right through East 
Lansing, Michigan. 
The Spartans of Michigan State (8-4) don't intend to make it an easy trip. Last season, the Irish beat MSU 12-11 in Moose Krause Stadium in overtime to clinch the GWLL and advance to the tournament. If anything, MSU would love to knock the Irish out of tournament con­tention. 

The game last season was decided by an unassisted goal by midfielder Kevin Mahoney. Randy Colley had two goals and four assists in the victory. 
"We're going to the tourna­ment every year and they're not. They'll play with a lot of emotion, but on Saturday, emo­tion isn't as important as exe­cution. If we execute, we'll win," predicted coach Kevin Corrigan. 
Notre Dame has won 11 of the 16 meetings between the two teams. They've won the last two contests by a total of three points. 
Michigan State does have a solid offensive program. Doug Jolley has 18 goals and 17 as­sists this season for the Spartans, three other players are tied with 22 points, and four more have double digit scoring totals. Hopefully, the Irish defense can snap back to form against MSU after a lack­luster fourth quarter perfor­mance against Massachusetts. 
"The defense feels like it has something to prove. If you're a competitor, you know that you have to bounce back after a tough game and perform bet­ter," said Corrigan. 
The strength of their program lies in the unsettled game. They feature the type of run­and-gun attack that Notre Dame has seen all season. Of all of the transition-minded op­ponents, only Penn State had success against the Irish de­fense in the first game of the fense plans to go straight at the rookie keeper to see if he'll crack under the pressure of a big game. 
The Irish also feature a fresh­man in the crease. Of course, things are slightly different with Alex Cade. The keeper is 4th in the country in save percentage on the season. He has also played against some big time opponents already this season, a fact that gives him a big advantage over Tarnow. 



ON 
America's Favorite 
WHO DONE IT? 

100% Audience Participation Show 
WIN CASH PRIZES T-SHIRTS SQUIRT GUNS 
Don't Miss All The Fun And Excitement 
A MURDER IS ABOUT TO HAPPEN ... 
Sponsored by: Flip Side, SADD & SUB LaFortune Ballroom-April 29, 10:00 p.m. Tickets at LaFortune Info Desk $5 for all ND/SMC students Call John (4-1410) or Mary (4-4904) w/any questions 
"We do well against a transi­tional offense because we like to control the tempo. If they don't have the opportunity to fast break, it takes away much of their attack," Corrigan ex­plained. 
The Spartan defense is a solid group, but they have a fresh­man in goal. Starter Jason Tarnow has won seven of eight contests and has a 60.9% save percentage. However, the of­Friday, April 28, 1995 

The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MOTHER.GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS CLOSE TO HOME McPHERSON 



CAL YIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
\'MAT ON ~ 1\M 1 VO\llG IN \\ERE. Ot\i\IIS 
BEA~IF\!L ~'{ ?.~" 
Tl\IS lS lliE CNL'< LIFE I'VE Q)"T.'! 
;, 

THE R.UMOF\S ARE OE5TP..O'<lNG OU~ PRODUCTIVITY. WE CAN'T WORI<-Will-I ALL THIS UNCERTAINlY 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Broadway's 
"Ev'rybody's1 Poke Got -But 5 Alternative to Me" 
whole 32 Pastoral 9 Nutty settings 13 CNN screen 33 60's-70's police word drama, with 
14 One size "The" smaller than 36 Future queen, English maybe 
15"To--human" 37"You-­17 Candid kidding!" 18 News piece 39 Horse of a 19 Base certain color 
neutralizers 40 --Saud 20 1970 David (Saudi king) 
Lean film 41 Tire 23 Planet 42 Latin land 25 Like soave 43 "Where the elite 26 Runs meet to eat," in 27 1970 Clint old radio 
Eastwood film 46 Lover 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
lilll-'~b.t:::=-i ~:-:i-=-+=+.=-i 

Check out the Fieldhouse Mall for Antostal Events. 
r::=====::::::::::~~=:~
S  I  PLAN  TO BUY PROVEN  
~  'TECHNOLOGY AND HIF\E  
~  CONIF\AC.T EI"\PLDYEE5.  
"'  
<l..§  YOU'LL BE GOPHE.f\5 FOf\ 11-1£ CONTRAC.TOP-5 UNTIL  
"'  '(OU  F\ESIGN IN DISGUST  
AND  HUMILIATION.  
WAY 10 GET 


49 O'Hara's Joey 50 Date 51 Notorious fire 
starter 55 Intermediate, in law 56 San Francisco's ---Tower 57 Symbol of 
servitude 60 Wicker willow 61 Author Rice 62 Author Ambler 63 Meeting of 
Con g. 64 Extreme poverty 65 Paradoxical Greek 
DOWN 
1 Gaza grp. 2 Stretch of 
turbulent water 3 Exaggerated 4 Gainsay 
Friday & Saturday 
Star Trek: Generations 
$2 Cushlng Theatre 
~ ~ 
BILL WATTERSON 
l-IE'¥.1 Tltv\E, TR'( t>-DRI~K OF Wf>.TER P.,~\) A i=E\'1 DE\:.? 
BRHIW3. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
IS H\£.1\E ANY 
BACK 10 
UNC.E.RTA I NTY? 
I 


Although no one at the table had said a word about it, Doug and Sandy sensed that they were being fixed up. 
• OF INTEREST ii!W 
• St. Joseph County will be providing free 
.immui:lations for childre~ on Saturday, April 29th, be~ tween 10 a.m. ;:; ·2 p.m. at the County City Building, Indi· ana Health Center and· Health Start Children's Clinic. No Appointment necessary, Call 288~6660 for more info. about locations. and times; Refreshments will be provided by Bonnie Doonl 
• Seniors who are plannlf!g on volunteerl.ng next year should sign up at the Center for Social Concerns to be recognized, Friday before graduation. 
• Students Interested In voli.lntHr teaching ·hl 
American Samoa can speak with Anne· CuSick, from the diocese of Pago Pago, Samoa, in. the LaFortune Student Center 24-hour lounge on Saturday trow 2*4 and on. 
May 6 from 12~5; · · ' · 
• There will be three panel discussions eon... earning political justice and the transiti(m to democracy; Friday, April 28 from 1:15 to 5:30 p.m. in the Court Room at the Law School. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame SOUTH DINING HALL Italian Chicken Sandwich 
Grilled Tilapia Cheese Sticks/Spaghetti Sauce 
NOHTH DINING HALL Cajun Chicken Sandwich Beef Bourguignon Julienne Vegetable Stir-Fry 
St. Mary's Chicken Parmesan Fried Catfish Vegetable Stir-Fry 
Recycle The Observer 
5 Book parts 6 Hardly high art 7 In the cooler 8 Doll's cry 9 Snoopy and 
family 10 Fallen features 11 Platitudinous 12 Joined forces 
(with) 16 Former states: Abbr. 21 "-sow, so shall ..." 
23 Giraffe's cousin 24 Clinic program 28 Alphabet trio 29 Gray work 30 Stimpy's TV pal 33 Gave up: Var. 34 Vermont city 35 Vacuous 37 Actress 
Woodard 38 U.K. defenders 42 Magnesium 48 Davis of 

silicate "Evening 43 Hive loafers Shade" 44 Kim Phil by 
52 Rent--­activity 
53 Author Jaffe 45 Likes and 54 Court call 

dislikes 46 Bullets 
sa Brethren 47 Prepare, as a 59 Environmentally turkey minded 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.. 
.. 
.. 
.. 






,~-___________ 
SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, April 28, 1995 
Eight left to fight for Bookstore title 
AI., ! • ·ndly Rivalry 
Friends Allen Rossum (15) and Ivory Covington (14) fight for the same starting cornerback position 
By TIM SHERMAN Right now, that business is Associate Sports Editor winning the vacant cornerback slot tomorrow in the annual 
A rivalry is one of those many Blue and Gold Game. With senior which make the Shawn Wooden 
game what it is: set at the other the intensity, the 
corner, the com-ferocity, the 
>, petition is heat­competitiveness. .. ed. For Notre.· 
Last season, 
By TIM SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 

The bizarre was in fashion everywhere but on the court during yesterday's Sweet Sixteen action in Bookstore basketball. 
The ARCOLA BROOMCORN CO. fans were out in force, waving what appeared to be sheaves of wheat as if it were Palm Sunday. 
Never to be outdone, Sweeter than Candy's faithful erected a shrine to their hero, Brian Hakala. They unveiled a lifesize Hakala photo, complete with a crown and fittingly named "Rain Man." 
Finally. NBT2 continued to display its distinct sense of fashion as Joe Haigh and Mark Zatavatski displayed a dueling pair of ugly socks the likes of which have never been seen. The only place where normalcy reigned was on the 
.. court. as all but one of the top seeds advanced . The only upset of the afternoon was No. 9 Sweeter than Candy's 21-15 victory over No. 8 Hood River Bandits. 
Hakala was one of the few players not hindered by the treacherous footing as he executed tantalizing spin moves with ease. 
But it was the supporting cast that helped Sweeter advance, as their unselfish passes consistently hit the open man 
"They're an excellent team, but we matched up against them perfectly," explained Sweeter's Dan Reinhardt. 
"Colin Ritgers was a force inside -he's been huge for us." 
The senior-dominated Hood River squad refused to fold, and was ignited by two steals for layups by Travis Smith and a jumper from Mike Martin. Hakala took over at the end, however, finding Ritgers down low to get him to the foul line. A pull­up jumper by Reinhardt sealed the victory. 
"We never really got with it today; we were never in sync," stated Hood River's Smith. "Those are great guys and they played really well." 
Two other top seeds, No. 3 Rebel Alliance and No. 
see BOOKSTORE I page 19 
~=~~ co~~f:~-·-·.=. 1::nfp.m:---~
.. 
Rossum and Ivory Complete coverage Covingto_n two see pages 20-21 
more attnbutes of a rivalry are quite apparent. The respect and the friendship. 
"We're both good football players," said Rossum. "He (Covington) is my best friend. 
.. What we do on the field is just business." 
Final Four 

The Observer/Brian Hardy DOS KLOSKAS' Pete Coleman tries to elude Jason Pett and Dave Baker of Diamondbacks during DOS KLOSKAS' 21-18 victory. They will face Showtime today. 

Finals 
nized and 

Concern persisted throughout the season, as big plays became commonplace. 
Those question marks are still 
see RIVALRY I page 21 
the secondary, 
along with the injury-ridden offensive line, was the most scruti­criticized area. 







SPORTS
Friday, April 28 

Saturday, April 29 Sunday, April 30 
Monday, May 1 

Blue and Gold Game, 1:30 p.m. 
at a

ND Softball vs. Indiana, Noon ND Track at Drake Relays ND Baseball at Northern Illinois No Sports Today ND Lacrosse at Michigan State (2)SMC Track at ElmhurstBookstore Basketball Quarterfinals Invitational Bookstore Basketball Finals 
ND Track at Drake Relays Bookstore Basketball Semifinals 
GLANCE 





