-------------~--~ ~~~--~ 

Monday, April24, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 126 
. THE IND.EPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Under cloud, Bolduc·steps back from Sorin duties 

By DAVE TYLER differences in management style and phi­According to Walpin, Bolduc was not dis­News Editor losophy as reasons for his departure. missed because of the sexual harassment 
W.R. Grace issued a press release at the allegations. "Our position is that Mr. 
J.P. Bolduc, former president and chief end of March saying that Bolduc was Bolduc resigned because of policy and executive officer of W.H. Grace and asked to leave by the company's board of philosophical differences in the manage­Company will not be serving as chairman· directors after allegations that Bolduc had ment of the company, with these hearsay of The Sorin Society for the time being, sexually harassed a number of employees accusations of sexual harassment merely according to Dennis Moore, University surfaced. Time magazine reported that five being a ploy by those who disagree with Director Public Relations and Information. women accused Bolduc of harassing them, Mr. Bolduc's management style to attack 
In October, Bolduc was named chairman and that Grace had hired a law firm to con­him," said Walpin. of the society, a group comprised of duct an investigation. No formal charges W.R. Grace is a Boca Raton, Florida­benefactors who each give at least $1,000 have been filed against Bolduc. based company that makes specialty chem­annually to Notre Dame in unrestricted Bolduc has vehemently denied the allega­icals and deals in the health service field as gifts. tions. Gerald Walpin, attorney for Bolduc, well. Bolduc had been credited by many 
.Moore said Bolduc and the University told the South Bend Tribune that the Wall Street analysts with returning the have mutually agreed that he not act as reports are unfounded. company to profitability. Grace also may Sorin Society chairman for an unspecified "Mr. Bolduc denies fully any allegations have paid Bolduc up to $43 million in sev­period of time. Bolduc will not officially of sexual harassment. And any things such erance pay, which led to two lawsuit by step down from his Sorin Society ap­as putting arms around people, which he shareholders. pointment and no one has taken his place with both men and women, was part of a Bolduc was named CEO of W.R. Grace in in the interim. warm, gregarious, fun, atmosphere which January 1993, succeeding Notre Dame 
Bolduc resigned from his position at he believed was beneficial to any work­
W.R. Grace on March 2 of this year , citing place." 
see BOLDUC I page 4 
Golf cart explodes 

outside of Flanner 
a captain at the Notre Dame

Fire termed Fire Department, the cart was approximately 50 feet south of the South door of Flanner. The
'suspicious' 
cart was completely destroyed in the fire. 


byNDFD 
Damage was estimated at $3500. 

Nothing was damaged aside By LIZ FORAN from the cart in the fire, and Associate News Editor no injuries were reported. 
A Notre Dame golf cart mys­Rogers said that the origin of teriously exploded early Satur­the fire was "suspicious, but all day morning outside of Flanner that was left was a few pounds 
Hall. of carbon and four smoking Notre Dame Fire Department tires," making further investi­was called to the scene at 3:59 gation difficult. 
a.m. Saturday after a student reported the explosion and fire. He added that the cart was
Va Gotta Regatta! 
not supposed to be outside 
Pangborn residents paddle their boat through the Fisher Regatta Sunday morning. 

According to Robert Rogers, Flanner at the time. 




Clinton prays with anguished nation, urges anti-terrorism 
,--------~~-----·----~-~~ ~--~---·--­
By TOM RAUM our lives." Center to be headed by the FBI; Associated Press "In the face of death, let us creation of a special fund to be 

Car bomb damage 
FLOORS (numbarolworln~ma•ofSept~. 1994)
honor life," he told Oklahoma used for infiltrating suspected 
9th • DEA (24 on lwo floora), Bureau of Alcohol,

Alfred P. Tobacco and Flrearmsl201. Secl1!1 Service (16) Murrah 
OKLAHOMA CITY City mourners, sharing a plat­terrorist organizations and 
President Clinton led an an­form at the Oklahoma State other means of combating ter­

Federal 
Building, 
Oklahoma City 6th • Marine AecruiUng (NA), Small Buaonoao Ad. (001
guished nation in prayer Sun­Fairgrounds with Billy Graham, rorism. 
day for victims of the federal the evangelist. -Legislation to give the FBI 
5th •Ve1erans (21), Labor Dop1. (NA), USDA(21), 
Cus1oma (1 0) 4th • Arm~ (NA). Air Foroe (50), Transpor1B1ion (NA) 
office building bombing as his "Wounds take a long time to increased authority to comb 
administration proposed a se­heal. but we must begin," Clin­through hotel and motel regis­
3rd • Geoe"'l Ao<oon11ng Oflice (18). Hoollh and

ries of broad steps to give the ton said. ters and to search phone logs, Human Servioefi {NA) 
2nd • Day-care oonter (20-W children)
government new powers to After the prayer service, the greater access to credit card 
1at • Social Security Ad. (65), G.,.rol Services 143)
fight terrorism. Clintons met privately with rel­records. 
"We have got to take steps atives of about two dozen vic­-I?ressing for passage of the aggressively to shut it down," tims, including the mother of a administration's Omnibus Clinton said in an interview 1-year-old girl who was pho­Counterterrorism Act, which with CBS' "60 Minutes." ''I'm tographed as a firefighter car­would give the government going to do everything in my ried her limp body from the more power to fight terrorism power to do just that." building. greater authority to protect the 
Clinton directed his adminis­''I'm sorry. I'm so sorry," confidentiality of sources in of­tration to replace the office ficial proceedings. This provi­
• see FBI, page 3
building devastated by last sion has been criticized by civil Wednesday's blast and ap­Clinton, his eyes brimming with liberties groups. pointed Attorney Gen. Janet tears, told Aren Almon as he "I don't think we have to give Reno to oversee a 60-day high­hugged her. up our liberties, but I do think level review of the vulnerability Clinton signed the paw of Al­we have to have more discipline of federal buildings. There are mon's Teddy bear, "God Bless and we have to be willing to see more than 8,000 such struc­You." serious threats to our liberties tures in the country. Mrs. Clinton wept as she properly investigated," Clinton 

On a day he designated a na­hugged three children whose told "60 Minutes." tional day of mourning, a father died in the explosion. He repeated his belief that solemn Clinton told a nationally "You're so courageous," she the bombers should be brought Moderate 
WJndows were
televised memorial service: told some of the relatives. to justice and executed. "If this 

damaged bloeka 
from blast site
"Those who are lost now be­Among the steps announced is not a crime for which capital 
long to God. Someday we will on Sunday by the White House: punishment is called, I don't be with them. But until that -Legislation to establish a Happens, their legacy must be Domestic Counterterrorism 
see CLINTON I page 4 

-----~~-----~­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, April 24. 1995 




Destruction 


that may not fully heal 
On April19, 1995 the world changed. A .car bomb. exploded in Oklahoma city destroy­ing the Alfred P. Murrah federal building. 
Those are the facts. Most people are famil­
iar with them. But the building was not the only thing destroyed in the bombing. America's feeling of security was shaken, probably even more than when the World Trade Center bombing occurred. 


However, where this Michael O'Hara bombing differs from the 
World Trade Center is Viewpoint Editor that the apparent perpe-_______ trators were not Muslims, as many thought, but they were Americans. This fact alone 
raises many important issues which should be addressed. 
First, these men that are believed to be the perpetrators are somehow linked to a para­military group. The issue behind these groups is twofold. Personally I am opposed to revoking anyone's rights to assemble. The First Amendment is designed to ensure this right. The wording of the Amendment is clear: "Congress shall make no law ... abridg­ing ... the right of people to peaceably assem­ble." These militia groups would be the last to tell you that they are organized against peace, but their apparent intent against the federal government and their stockpiling of weapons seems to point of intent which is counter with any peaceable goals. 
Yet this stockpiling of weapons points to a different Constitutional aspect: that of the right to bear arms as enumerated in the Second Amendment. The Bill of Rights was written to prevent a repeat of the British tyranny which led to the American Revolution. However, in regards to the Second Amendment, all the forefathers knew of firearms was muskets. In an age of semi­automatic handguns and rifles, some form of regulation would seem necessary. If hunters need such weapons of destruction to hunt, they are losing the spirit behind hunting. 
There is a deeper problem associated with this bombing that won't go away very easily. With a bombing such as this, the nation instantly looked for someone to blame, and the Muslim community was immediately indicted. The fact that Muslim groups across ihe nation denounced the bombing had little effect on the national psyche. Muslims bombed the World Trade Center, therefore they must be responsible in Oklahoma City. 
What do these accusations, which appear 
unfounded, do for the U.S.? Nothing benefi­
cial can come from this. Race relations will 
only worsen. The only way to understand 
people of different backgrounds is to keep an 
open mind and not jump to stereotypical con­
clusions. But this has occurred. 
As in the Susan Smith case when it was 
instantly assumed that an African-American 
was responsible, the fmger-pointing at the 
Muslim community is detrimental to rela­
tions. How can we expect to promote peace 
in the Middle East if we can't keep an open 
mind about Muslims living in the U.S.? 
The bombing in Oklahoma City was indeed 
a tragedy and the healing will take some 
time. But healing from the other issues may 
take even longer, if it happens at all. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 
• WURlO AT A GLANCE 
Fumes flood Yokohama 
AP/ Terry Kole 

Four Weddings' sweeps film awards 
LONDON 
"Four Weddings and a Funeral," the romantic comedy that has become the highest-grossing British film ever, won five prizes Sunday at the 1995 BAFTA awards, including best film. "They said my lucky underpants wouldn't work, but they did," said writer Richard Curtis, who joined director Mike Newell and producer Duncan Kenworthy to accept the top prize from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts. In addition to best picture, the movie won awards for best director (Newell), best actor (Hugh Grant), best supporting actress (Kristen Scott Thomas) and most popular film-an award voted by the public. Accepting his prize, Grant apologized to fellow nominee John Travolta ("Pulp Fiction") for what he called "a little bit of flag waving" by voters who favored the British-made film. "Had 'Pulp Fiction' been set in the heart of the Sussex countryside, things would be different now," he said. "Pulp Fiction," also hugely popular in Britain, won two awards-best supporting actor (Samuel L. Jackson) and best original screenplay (Quentin Tarantino and Roger Avary). The best actress prize went to Susan Sarandon for her performance as a Southern lawyer in "The Client." 

Freakniks finally disperse 
ATLANTA 

After a second night of looting and traffic jams, the huge Freaknik street party slowly dispersed Sunday as revelers made one last cruise around the rainy city before heading home. Freaknik was expected to draw more than 200,000 black college students and other youths to downtown Atlanta, but students who attended said about half that number came this year. City officials refused to estimate the crowd size. Corey Griffin, 25, of Dalton said Freaknik '95 didn't measure up to last year's festivities. "They tried to stop it before it got started," he said. "I think it's nice to come down here and spend some money, but I felt I was unwanted." 
The large crowds, traffic jams and unruly behavior in past years led officials to close off 200 blocks and crack down on lawbreakers. But police efforts didn't prevent trouble over the weekend. Revelers Friday night ran­sacked 11 stores near Underground Atlanta, a downtown shopping and entertainment complex. Rain chased the street party indoors Saturday, and Underground and two north Atlanta shopping malls closed early to head off problems. After the party shifted to southwest Atlanta, about 100 looters smashed their way into a mall depart­ment store as hundreds of onlookers cheered. 
Atlanta Mayor Bill Campbell visited the mall Sunday to assess damage, condemning it as "shameful, lawless behavior that cannot be condoned under any circum­stances." He blamed a mix of locals and party-goers. Police Chief Beverly Harvard, wtio earlier said she saw little violence or lewdness in the Freaknik crowds, said the revelers' ribald behavior Saturday night changed her opinion. "I am very, very much disappointed in what we have seen this weekend -the kinds of acts I myself have seen walking through the crowds," she said. 
Harvard said she was appalled by the allegations of rapes, sexual harassment and assaults over the week­end, as well as the behavior of some party-goers, includ­ing women allowing men to grope them and videotape their bare breasts. By early Sunday, Harvard said police had made 324 arrests on 1,376 charges that also includ­ed traffic violations, disorderly conduct, theft, possession of drugs and concealing weapons. In addition, 223 juve­niles were held for disorderly conduct. All but 15 were released, Harvard said. One woman sustained a separat­ed shoulder Saturday night when crowds that gathered at the Underground stampeded several times for no apparent reason, police said. 
Youths attack Big Bird at party 
BRAINTREE, Mass. 

A man who dressed as Big Bird for a 4-year-old's birth­day party was beaten by six youths with a bat just after he left, an attack videotaped by the child's family, police said Sunday. Wayne Quinn, 26, was taken to the hospital with badly bruised ribs and large bruises on his head and arms. The youths, ages 16 to 20, had yelled obscenities at Quinn as he arrived dressed as the "Sesame Street" character at a house in this Boston suburb, Sgt. Karen MacAleese said. When Quinn left, he changed out of the suit in a van and approached the youths, who were hang­ing out across the street from the house. "I went over to ... ask them to knock it ofT with the language because of the kids," said Quinn, who was hired for the party. "They were looking for a fight." He was punched, kicked and hit with a baseball bat. The youths, who ran away when people came to Quinn's aid, said Quinn started the fight Saturday afternoon. But MacAleese said the videotape told a different story. "The video clearly showed the attack was unprovoked," MacAleese said. The youths were to he arraigned Monday on charges ranging from assault and battery with a dangerous weapon to simple assault. 
• INmJU\IA Wr:ArHEf! 

Monday, April 24, 1995 
Accu-Weather~ forecast for daytime conditions and The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Monday, April 24. 
OHIO 


FRONTS: 
.....---.----------............... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

Pressure 
H L 6.J ESI ITIJ 0 (Z] § i) a 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY CLOUDY Via Associated Prsss 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Amy Schmidt  Ciscley Elliot  
Melanie Laflin  Butch Cabreros  
Sports  Production  
Joe Villinski  Heather Dominique  
Megan McGrath  Belle Bautista  
Graphic  Lab Tech  
Tom Roland  Jen Rezeli  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Atlanta 76 64 Dallas 61 48 New Orleans 76 59 Baltimore 61 44 Denver 48 22 New York 54 39 Boston 54 44 Los Angeles 87 59 Philadelphia 62 44 Chicago 50 39 Miami 84 76 Phoenix 84 53 Columbus 53 34 Minneapolis 65 35 St. Louis 50 46 
Monday, April 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Edwards: Forfeiture law 
FBI: 'John Doe 2' still at large 
By CHRISTOPHER SULLIVAN ment spokesman John Russell Ray Blakeney of the medical Associated Pr.ess said. examiner's office said of the 
reform necessary in U.S. 
Air Force Lt. Col. Joan Fergu­mood: "It's getting a lot worse.
ByTIM GREEN been wrongfully seized by the 
OKLAHOMA CITY son, a Pentagon spokeswoman, We know the work is going to 
News Writer government through forfeiture 
An Army deserter was ques­said Iniguez went AWOL from have to be done, but it's frus­
laws. 

tioned Sunday in connection Fort Riley, Kan., on Aug. 23, ttating not to be able to get on
Federal asset forfeiture law, "The laws are designed with 
with the bombing of the federal and was declared a deserter a with it." 
a topic currently being debated procedural stumbling blocks so 
building, but the Justice De­month later. Across the nation, churchgo­
in the U.S. Congress, was dis­the government can always 
partment denied he was the On Friday, the FBI arrested ers remembered the victims
cussed at a symposium spon­win," he said. "Obviously, sub­
heavy-browed "John Doe 2" what it said was the first of the and workers in prayers
sored by the Journal of stantial reform is neccessary." 
pictured in an FBI sketch. two "John Does" in the agen­Sunday. At Oklahoma City's
Legislation last Saturday at the 
As the investigation widened, cy's sketches: Timothy Cathedral of Our Lady of
Law School. Notre Dame Law Professor G. 
some 20,000 people overflowed McVeigh, a 27 -year-old former Perpetual Help, the Rev. Peter
Forfeiture law regulates the Robert Blakey offered his views 
the state fairgrounds, where GI with far-right political views. Ashurst said the devastation
government's ability to take on the debate. Blakey has 
President Clinton and the Rev. He was charged with taking had left Americans "confronted 
away private property as pun­served on Congressional and 
Billy Graham were to lead a part in the attack. by the unanswerable." He
ishment for a criminal offense. Executive committees, and was 
memorial service on what the A senior law enforcement of­urged them to seek answers in
The law allows the government instumental in authoring the 
president declared a national ficial, speaking on condition of faith. 
to confiscate any property used 1970 Racketeer Influenced and 
day of mourning. anonymity. said someone had One congregation member,
in the commission of a crime Corrupt Organizations Act 
Hours before the ceremony, recognized Iniguez from the Don Gillispie, wearing a uni­
from the convicted person, as (RICO). 
spectators lined up for a mile. "John Doe 2" sketch of a dark­form identifying him as an 
part of his or her sentencing. 
Attorney General Janet Reno haired, square-jawed man with agent of the Bureau of Alcohol, 
Blakey told of scenario in 

got a standing ovation as she a heavy brow. But Russell said Tobacco and Firearms, left a
Stefan Cassella, the deputy which local police will discover 
entered. Iniguez was not the second few minutes early to return to
director for asset forfeiture for a center of drug-dealing opera­
"I think we all feel para­John Doe and was not a sus­the investigation. 
the department of justice in tions. However, many times 
lyzed," said Tamara Meadows, pect. McVeigh served at Fort Parishioners at St. Eugene
Washington, D.C., is re­they will wait until the drugs 
of suburban Edmond. Riley, as did Terry Nichols, one Church. where one member
sponsible for enforcement in themselves have been dis­
The bombing site, where of two brothers being held as was among the missing, lined 
many federal seizures of for­tributed out to the dealers and 
workers have toiled for days in material witnesses in the up to donate to a fund for her
feited property. Cassella spoke the money comes in before they 
heat, dust, rain and cold, was a attack. family. "The power of God will 
in favor of continued strong move in and bust the operation. 
scene of growing misery. Fears The FBI said McVeigh had always exceed the power of
forfeiture laws as a necessary The police know that they will 
that the structure would crum­been infuriated at the govern­evil," the Rev. Bill Pruett said. 
power of the government. be able to keep that money, 
ble stopped searchers again ment over the cult disaster at McVeigh, who turned 27 on
Other speakers criticized due to federal forfeiture laws, 
and again from reaching the Waco, Texas, which occurred Sunday, was being held in the
Casella and current forfeiture and therefore let the drugs be 
area where a day-care center two years before the bombing. El Reno Federal Correctional
law, including Nashville lawyer sold and later collect the drug 
and Social Security office were. At the bombing site, sharp Center on a bombing charge.
EJbert Edwards, co-chair of the money for themselves. 
The death toll in the worst gusts dropped wind chills to the Other charges were expected to
forfeiture abuse task force. 
terrorist bombing in U.S. his­low 20s early Sunday and shift­follow. The government has
Edwards gave perhaps the "The goal of any 'drug en­
tory stood at 78, with 150 peo­ed some slabs of concrete on said it will seek the death 
strongest condemnation of fed­forcement' should be to stop 
ple unaccounted for. More than ledges on the building's upper penalty. Brothers Terry Lynn
eral forfeiture. the drugs from getting to the 
400 were injured in Wednes­floors. Sparks flew as fire­Nichols, 40, and James Douglas
streets," he said. "Clearly, that 

day's blast, caused by thou­fighters cut away some dan­Nichols, 41, were ordered held
"Through modern forfeiture is not what is happening here." 
sands of pounds of homemade gling rooftop chunks. as material witnesses. 
laws," he said, "the govern­As an author of RICO, how­
explosives packed into a Ryder Searchers waited to resume CBS Radio reported that au­
ment is directly attacking the ever, Blakey has been instru­
rental truck. work in the day-care center thorities focused on Terry
concepts of freedom and pri­mental in increasing the power 
David Iniguez was picked up and Social Security area, which Nichols as a possible suspect
vate property that this country of government to seize and 
by military authorities in San were thought to contain many and were looking for as many
has held dear for over 200 keep forfeited property. "On 
Bernardino, Calif., on charges of the missing. Assistant Fire as three others. No sources
years." this issue there are many argu­
unrelated to the attack and was Chief Jon Hansen said it would were cited for that information.
Edwards went on to relate ments for both sides," he said. 
questioned in connection with be a miracle if anyone were The FBI acknowledged there
specific examples of innocent "I suspect that the truth lies 
the bombing, Justice Depart-found alive. could be other suspects. 
people whose property hac' somewhere in between." 


NOTICE!!! CURRENT MALE GRADUATES OR JUNIOR, GRAD STUDENT 
HELP WANTED -Life Treatment Centers, Inc. 
A CURRENT GRADUATING PERSON 
Where There's Lfe ... There's Hope 

. . . Who has been considering a year of service in some capacity. Check us out for a live-in opportunity to work w1th 1nd1gent males who have already begun the process of recovery from addictions to alcohol and/or other drugs. In addition to being present on site, some duties related to treatment activities will be assumed. Training opportunities in counseling are available. 
OR 

A CURRENT JUNIOR, GRAD STUDENT 
A live in opportunity that includes room and board. Only duty is related to being present at negotiated times. Kind of like being an RA. Training provided. 
REQUIREMENTS: 

DRUG-FREE NON-DRINKER OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES MATURE MALE 
For more information contact: 

Fr. Steve Newton, C.S.C. 1-6444 or 234-0824 
page4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 24, 1995 
Bolduc 
continued from page 1 
trustee J. Peter Grace who died last Wednesday of lung cancer. Bolduc replace Alfred De-

Clinton 
continued from page 1 
know what is," Clinton said. 
Clinton also denounced para­military groups and those who glorified the Branch Davidian cult members who died in a bloody standoff with federal agents two years ago. 
"Those people murdered a bunch of innocent law en­forcement officials who worked for the federal government," Clinton said. 
At the prayer service, Clinton and others wore multicolored ribbons made up of white, yel­low, purple and blue strands. The white stood for the dead, the yellow for the missing, the purple for children and the blue for the state of Oklahoma. 
Scattered through the crowd were relatives of the dead and missing, hugging teddy bears and holding single stem flow­ers. Many clutched photos of their loved ones. 
"Today, our nation joins with you in grief. We mourn with you. We share your hope against hope that some may still survive," Clinton said at the memorial service. He shared a platform at the Oklahoma State Fairgrounds with the Rev. Billy Graham, the evangelist. 
"We pledge to do all we can to help you heal the injured, to rebuild this city, and to bring to justice those who did this evil," Clinton said. 
Graham told the worship ser­vice the blast was "a violent explosion, ripping at the very 
~~ W©[U) ~~~ [ff)~W~ ~~~~~[ff)~[f\)~5) ©~~~ T~~ (O)[Q)~~lrW~lr: (6~~ ~!5~~~ 
Crane, chairman of the board of Texaco, Incorporated, as chairman of the Sarin Society. In 1994 the Sarin Society raised $13 million for Notre Dame. 
The South Bend Tribune and Time Maga~ine contributed to 
heart of America." tong after the dead are buried and the building is rebuilt, Graham said, "the scars of this sense­less and evil outrage will re­main." 
But, he asserted: "We stand together today to say: Let the healing begin." 
The Oklahoma City Philhar­monic Orchestra played slow, mournful anthems in the memorial service. And, at one point, the entire audience stood and, a cappella, sang "Amazing Grace." 
Clinton did not visit the ex­plosion site, although his mo­torcade traveled close enough to downtown that cranes at the site could be seen. Aides said the president did not want to disrupt the cleanup and rescue missions. 
Before the service, Clinton was briefed while Air Force One remained on the tarmac by James Lee Witt, director of the Federal Emergency Management Administration. 
Witt showed Clinton large blow up photographs of the building and the rescue opera­tion, pointing out how the bomb had ripped the face off the nine-story building. 
Witt told Clinton that mem­bers of the search and rescue mission were going through the ghastly rubble "piece by piece." 
Before leaving the White House, Clinton and his wife planted a dogwood tree on the South Lawn of the White House in memory of the dead, the in­jured and the missing. The idea was suggested to him the day before by six-year-old Allyson Mawn, one of the participants in his radio address. 



Peace talks recess until May 
By JOSEPH FRAZIER 
Associated Press 
SAN ANDRES 
LARRAINZAR 
After two days of talks de­layed by two days of squab­bling, rebel and government negotiators recessed Sunday until May 12 to consider pro­posals to reduce tensions while they try to make peace. 
The weekend talks were in­tended only to set the frame­work for further negotiations ­indicating that substantive talks on social reforms, the key issue in the rebellion that erupted Jan. 1, 1994, could be very far off. 
According to statements read by spokesmen, the government proposed pulling its soldiers back from rebel areas and hav­ing Zapatista forces gather in three areas, where the gov­ernment would house them during the talks. 
The rebels countered with a proposal to have the Mexican army withdraw to the positions it held before a Feb. 8 offensive and promise freedom of move­ment and safety for refugees during the talks. In exchange, the rebels offered to stop mili­tary activities and to keep their forces out of towns. 
The spokesmen, chairman 

Samuel Ruiz of a church­backed mediating commission and Sen. Oscar Lopez Velarde, said one side wanted more time to examine the proposals. They wouldn't say which side or give any other details. 
Suspicion and mistrust char­acterized the opening of peace talks. Squabbling and mutual accusations of bad faith delayed the start of the talks by two days and when they finally began on Saturday, there was little progress. 
At a news conference late Sunday on the San Andres plaza, a ski-masked rebel ne­gotiator known as Comman­dante Tacho read a statement criticizing the government's position. 
"The government doesn't want to talk of peace, only of surrender," he said, sur­rounded by army guards and hundreds of cheering villagers. "We did not come to surrender. We came for dialogue." 
He said the peace process wasn't in danger. 
The rebels stunned Mexico and devastated confidence in its economic future with their surprise uprising demanding better treatment for the impoverished villagers of Chiapas state. Some 145 people were killed in 12 days of fight­ing before the two sides agreed on a cease-fire. 
Since then, the rebels have threatened to end the truce if their demands are not ad­dressed. 
Some close to the talks say privately that future rounds of 
negotiations could stretch· through the end of the year. 
The Zapatistas accused the government of bad faith for not coming to talks, scheduled to have opened Thursday, when more than 1,000 of their sup­porters crowded around the talks site, trying to form an ad­ditional security cordon. 
The Zapatista supporters, moved by a pounding rain and requests from the rebel leader­ship, left Friday night. 
San Andres Larrainzar, a town of about 3,000 people in the mountains 20 miles north of the rebels' former stronghold of San Cristobal de las Casas, is to be the permanent site for future peace talks. 
This is the second round of peace talks since the uprising. The first round in February 1994 ended with agreements on many key issues. But when the rebels took the proposals back to remote villages, they said they were rejected for a number of reasons -especially mistrust in the government. 

Chechnya's veterans suffer again 
ByJULIA RUBIN 
Associated Press 
GROZNY, Russia 
In Chechnya, the war heroes of 1945 have been hit hard by the horrors of 1995. 
Said Ali, who helped defend Leningrad during the 900-day Nazi siege, refused to flee Grozny in January when Rus­sia's army bombarded seces­sionist forces in Chechnya's capital. He sat in his apart­ment, recording each explosion on a piece of paper, while half the building was blown to bits around him. 

Magomet Inderbiyev, a vet­eran of the Soviet march, has nothing left of his apartment but rubble. Marauding soldiers stole his medals off a suit jacket and slashed a 1946 portrait of him in uniform. 
Zakar Akhmatkhanov, who was at the Elbe River in Ger­many in 1945 when Soviet and American soldiers met, lived in a cellar for 2 1/2 months this year after a rocket hit his apartment. Akhmatkhanov recounted how one cold day, he put on his medals and went out to some Russian soldiers he had seen looting. '"What mother raised you? How could you bring shame on the Russian army?'" he recalled asking. 
ATTENTION SOPHOMORES! ORDERS MAY NOW BE PLACED FOR YOUR CLASS RINGS Orders may be placed in the Ring Office Monday April 24th through Wednesday May 3rd from 9am -12pm and lpm-4:30pm  
The Hammes NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE "on the campus" Open Monday through Saturday 9 am. -5 pm.  


Europe!! 
Travelmore/Carlson Travel Network is your local Europe Travel Specialist 
Let us send you to Europe! 
•Airfares  Special STUDENT & FACULTY rates.  
Low airfares to Europe.  
•Rail Passes  Rail Passes issued in our office!  
No service fee'  
Timetables, prices, tickets .:n·ail,lble1  
•car Rentals  Discounted car rentals!  
Available in all European Countries!  
•Experience  Over'20 years experience working with  
Notre Dame & Saint Mary's students  
and faculty travelling to Europe.  

We know Europe -let us plan your trip! 1723 South Bend Ave. -Next to the Notre Dame campus­(219) 271-4880 

~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, April 24, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 

Gasoline prices rise Former Senator Stennis dead at 93 
due to crude oil hike 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES Motorists paid an average of 
3.2 cents more per gallon of gasoline over the past two weeks, an increase caused by rising crude oil prices and heavier demand, an industry analyst said Sunday. 
. "This is significant, a wallop of an increase. Prices have gone up nearly 11 cents per gallon over a year ago," said Trilby Lundberg, publisher of the twice-monthly Lundberg Survey of 10,000 gas stations. 
The average price of gasoline was 122.21 cents per gallon, according to the Lundberg Sur­vey completed Friday. That compares to the average 
118.98 cents on April 7. 
"Prices started going up a month ago because crude oil prices are up an average $2 a barrel. It has a lot to do with nervousness in the Middle East over supply, plus we are com­ing into a higher demand sea­son," Lundberg said. 
The average price of gasoline at self-serve pumps was 115.76 cents for unleaded regular, 
125.88 cents for unleaded mid­grade, 134.26 cents for unlead­ed supreme and 118.95 cents for leaded regular. 

By STEPHEN HAWKINS 
Associated Press 
JACKSON, Miss. 

Former Sen. John C. Stennis, a courtly Mississippi Democrat who exercised vast influence over America's military during his four decades in the Senate, died Sunday. He was 93. 
Stennis died about 3:30 p.m. at St. Dominic Hospital, where he had been taken several days ago for pneumonia, said his son John Hampton Stennis. 
Stennis earned a reputation in Washington for fairness and finesse that landed him delicate committee assignments and close association with eight U.S. presidents. But his opposition to integration blotted his 
The top 3 reasons to start your Kaplan 




MCAT 

Get a head start on the competition! Start studying now! 
Summer classes start June 26, 1995 
PREP 
A better BANG for your buck-more time to study with Kaplan! 

KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
Price Increases May 1, 1995 
~ 

LAFAYETTE SQUARE 
T 0 W N H 0 M E S 

NEWLY REMODELED 
• 
NEW CARPETS 

• 
NEW TILE FLOORS 

•
COMPLETE REPAINTING OF EVERY UNIT 


AND MUCH MORE ! 

ADVANTAGES WE OFFER 
•FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
·WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY APARTMENT 
•
DISHWASHER 

•
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

•
ADT SECURITY SYSTEMS • 24-HOURMAINTENANCE 



~NOW OFFERING SOME FURNISHED UNITS~ UNITS STILL AVAILABLE 
record. 
Stennis joined the Senate in 1947. At the time of his retire­ment in 1988, he was its oldest member. 
"He was a great senator in every way. He was effective, re­spected and deeply appreciated by the people in Mississippi," said U.S. Sen. Thad Cochran, R­Miss. "He was truly a man of great stature. We have suffered a great loss." 
Stennis, nicknamed the "con­science of the Senate" for his work on the Senate's code of ethics and strict religious con­victions, overcame personal tragedy to continue public ser­vice. 
He was wounded by robbers and left bleeding on the side­walk near his northwest Washington home in 1973. Then-President Nixon, emerg­ing from Stennis' hospital room, said the senator would survive because, "He's got the will to live in spades." 
Coy Hines Stennis, his wife of 
52 years, died in 1983. And in 
1984, he lost his left leg to can­
c~r. and had to use a wheel­
chair. 
"Discouraged? I suppose ev­erybody's had his ups and downs. But I've never surren­dered," Stennis said then. 
Stennis, serving as chairman 
of both the Armed Services 
Committee and the defense 
subcommittee of the 
Appropriations Committee dur­
ing the 1970s, wielded more 
clout over military matters 
than perhaps any civilian 
except the president. He was a 
consistent advocate of the need 
for a strong military. 
"If there is one thing I'm un­
yielding and unbending on, it is 
that we must have the very 
best weapons," he once said. 
After militants in Iran seized 
the American Embassy and 
held its employees hostage in 
late 1979, Stennis suggested a 
fleet of small aircraft carriers 
be built to counter such crises 
around the world. 
"Trouble can come from any­
where now," he said. "We've 
got to be ready for instant 
action." 
Soon after, the Soviet Union 
invaded Afghanistan and Sten­
nis called for U.S. military sup­
port bases near Mideast oil 
fields. 
Though he stood for a tough 
military, Stennis did not always 
back presidential military pol­
icy. 

He was a leading backer of 
the Vietnam War. However, in 
the war's waning days, he co­
sponsored legislation to set lim­
its on a president's power to 
commit American forces to 
combat without congressional consent. 
A decade later, Stennis op­posed using that law-the War Powers Act of 1973-to permit President Reagan to keep Ma­r,ine peacekeeping troops in Lebanon. 
He condemned the Supreme Court's 1954 school desegrega­tion decision, but in 1983 he switched and voted for an ex­tension of the Voting Rights Act. 
He later said he always sup­ported the advancement of all races. 
Stennis was born Aug. 3, 1901, in Dekalb and graduated from Mississippi State Univer­sity in 1923 before attending the University of Virginia Law School. 
He began his public service in 1928 in the Mississippi Legisla­ture, then served as a district attorney and circuit judge be­fore joining the U.S. Senate. 

After his retirement, Stennis moved to the Mississippi State University campus in Starkville, which also is the home of the John C. Stennis Institute of Government and the Stennis Center for Public Service, cre­ated by Congress. 
"I do believe the most impor­tant thing I can do now is to help young people understand the past and prepare for the fu­ture," Stennis said in 1990 while serving as executive in residence at the university. "As long as I have energy left, I want to use it to the benefit of students.'' 
Also named for the senator is NASA's National Space Tech­nology Laboratory in southern Mississippi. The John C. Stennis Space Center tests rocket motors. 
"How would I like to be re­membered? I haven't thought about that a whole lot," Stennis said in a 1985 interview. "You couldn't give me a finer com­pliment than just to say, 'He did his best."' 
The senator's body will lie in state Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m. 
at the Old Capitol Museum in Jackson and from 4 p.m. to 6 

p.m. 
at the DeKalb Presbyte­rian Church in DeKalb. Grave­side services will be at 11 a.m. Wednesday at Pinecrest Ceme­tery in DeKalb. 


Survivors include his son, a Jackson lawyer, and his daugh­ter, Margaret Womble. 
Have something to say? Use Observer 



The Observer/ Angela Addington 
Play it Again, Harry! 
Harry Connick, Jr. sings his heart out on Thursday at the Morris Civic Auditorium. 



Hypertension drugs costly, unproven 
By BRENDA C. COLEMAN he said. 
Associated Press The older drugs (diuretics and beta blockers) have fallen CHICAGO from favor as rapidly as the Americans spend billions of newer drugs (calcium antago­dollars a year on costly new nists and ACE inhibitors) have blood pressure drugs that are gained popularity, the re­not proven superior to cheaper searchers reported in Monday's medications, a study says. issue of the Archives of Internal 
"The last 10 to 12 years have Medicine, published by the shown some remarkable Chicago-based American changes in the proportion of Medical Association. different types of hypertension Some doctors are quick to d_rugs used," said Dr. Jeffrey A. defend the newer drugs, which Cutler, a federal researcher they said cause far fewer side and the study's co-author. effects than the older ones and 
"These trends have occurred offer other medical advantages in the absence of any large­as well. scale clinical comparisons of "The newer drugs are ter­what the various drugs might rific, particularly ACE in­do to prevent heart disease, hibitors, for healing the heart," strokes and other complica­said Dr. Louis Tobian, head of tions of high blood pressure," the hypertension unit at the University of Minnesota School of Medicine. 
The study found that between 1982 and 1993, diuretics dropped from 53 percent of all blood pressure drugs used to 27 percent. Use of beta block­ers fell from about 20 percent to about 13 percent. 
Meanwhile, calcium antago­nists soared from 0.3 percent to 27 percent, and ACE inhibitors zoomed from 0.8 percent to 24 percent. 
The difference in the cost of the drugs is striking. In 1992, a month of diuretic treatment av­eraged $8.25 wholesale, com­pared with $23.77 for beta blockers, $36.14 for ACE in­hibitors and $47.63 for calcium antagonists, the researchers said. 
RECYCLE THE OBSERVER  
Wishing Marty Ogren a Happy Birthday  
Dick, Danny, Ernie, john, Hank, Brenda, Amy, joAnne and gang  

Monday, April 24, 1995 

Zulu nationalist calls for Mandela resistance 
By ANN EVELETH 
Associated Press 
UMLAZI, South Africa 
Zulu nationalist Mangosuthu Buthelezi on Sunday urged his followers to "rise and resist" Nelson Mandela's government, which he painted as the enemy of Zulu sovereignty and tradi­tion. 
Buthelezi's speech to about 5,000 people in a soccer sta­dium near Durban could un­leash a new wave of hostility between his Inkatha Freedom Party and Mandela's African National Congress. 
Thousands of people have died in fighting between Zulu supporters of the ANC and those supporting lnkatha in the eastern province of KwaZulu­Natal. 
"KwaZulu-Natal must rise 
and resist the central govern­ment," Buthelezi said. "We must resist the central gov­ernment, which has given a clear indication of pursuing plans from which great evil will arise." 
Buthelezi expressed fears that a strong central govern­ment would strip provinces of their power and sideline tradi­tional leaders. such as the Zulu king. 
Inkatha wants international mediation to settle demands for more autonomy for KwaZulu­Natal, Buthelezi's stronghold and home to most of the 8 mil­lion Zulus who make up South Africa's largest ethnic group. 
On Saturday, lnkatha con­firmed its decision to boycott the assembly writing South Africa's new constitution until international mediation begins. 

Clothing & Usable Item 
Drive 
The 

St. Vincent De Paul 
Society 



Clothings, Furniture, 
Appliances, & Other 
Usable Items. 

ALL Residence Halls 
Monday, May 1 Monday, May 8 Monday, May 15
l~i 
Monday, May 22
(?MPUSMINISTRY 
Campus Ministry, 631-52U & The St. Vincent De Paul Societv. 234-6000 
Do you want to stay in your dorm and study all summer, OR would 
you like to have a SOCIAL LIFE?  
To have your name and phone # added to a list that will  
be posted in Lafortune for all summer school students:  
1.) Call Student Government at 1 x 6283  
OR 2.) E-mail us at studegov.l@nd.edu  'ACTION Itill  
STUDENT GOVERNMENT  

Simply indicate that you will be here and give us your# by May 3rd.!!! And of course, any other comments or questions about absolutely any topic are always welcome! 


~~Halr~Ga.' 
5804 Grape Rd., Mishawaka 
277-79~6 
HOURS: 9 to 8 Sat 9 to 6 Sun. 11·5 

Monday, April 24, 1995 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
----------------------------~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~~---------------­
Doomsday cult leader stabbed by extremist 
Kibeho becomes massacre site 
By PAULINE JELINEK 
about 500,000 people -mostly 

ZAIREAssociated Press 

UGANDA Tutsis -that oceurred a year ago. The refugees ·ned last July GIKONGORO, Rwanda 

when Tutsi-led rebels over­Tens of thousands of people, 
threw the Hutu-dominated gov­most wounded or sick, fled ernment. along muddy roads Sunday Kibeho, with about 120,000 from the refugee camp where refugees, was the largest of the at least 2,000 people were camps initially set up by the killed by Hwandan soldiers or French in the area for some trampled in stampedes a day 250,000 displaced people. earlier. The French withdrew last 
Soldiers buried the bodies in year and the new government shallow graves and pit latrines sent soldiers to begin closing at the Kibeho camp, about 12 camps on Tuesday, claiming miles south of Gikongoro and they sheltered militias loyal to 55 miles southwest of the capi­the former government. tal, Kigali. Hillsides that had On Saturday, camp residents. been strewn with corpses were apparently seeking cover from cleared by the end of the day, the rain, tried to run through a aid workers said. cordon of soldiers surrounding 
A 10-mile line of panicked it. refugees streamed out of AP "This spooked the soldiers, Kibeho toward the provincial sonal effects," the team said in and they started firing into the capital of Butare, 20 miles east, a report. "The road was piled crowd," said Ray Wilkinson, or the border with Burundi, high with these abandoned UNHCR spokesman in Nairobi, which lies beyond. goods." Kenya. 
Most were sick or wounded, Rain turned the road into a When Hutu militiamen in the according to a team from the nearly impassable quagmire. eamp apparently returned fire, 
U.N. High Commissioner for Trucks and buses sent to help the soldiers responded with Hefugees that visited the eamp. evacuate the refugees were heavy mortars, the United Na­A U.N. relief agency set up stuck 10 miles away. tions said. Other U.N. reports medieal treatment centers Rain also apparently touched said people were killed by ma­along the way. off Saturday's massacre. chetes, bayonets and rocket­
"They have thrown away all Most of the refugees are eth­propelled grenades. of their belongings, sacks of nic Hutus who fear Tutsi "As confusion then became maize, plastic sheeting, per-reprisals for the slayings of total chaos and panic, a large 
number of people, mostly women and children, were trampled to death," Wilkinson
HAPPY 
said. 
22ND BIRTHDAY 
llilli!a,'s(R)13J,4:Il,7:15,10:00 ~1\bie(G) 12:15,2:15,4:15,6:Il, 83J WliiB Yoo Were~ (PG) 2:ll, 4:45, 7:00, 9:lJ








STEVEN 
CidemFrieOOs (PG13) 1:45,400,6:45, 9:15 T11111filkrt(PG13~ll. 1200,2:45,5:00, 73J,9:45l<issm
We love you and we are proud ofyou. Mom, Dad, and Vip 

By ERIC TALMADGE 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 
As police and dozens of re­porters looked on, a right-wing extremist on Sunday ambushed and fatally stabbed the top sci­entist in the doomsday cult sus­pected in the lethal nerve gas attack on Tokyo's subways. 
The stabbing was the latest chapter in a wave of violence that has deeply shaken the Japanese, who have long taken the safety of their streets as a matter of national pride. 
The vigilante-style attack oc­curred as Hideo Murai, 36, head of the Aum Shinri Kyo (Supreme Truth) cult's "Science and Technology Min­istry," was returning to the cult's Tokyo headquarters Sun­day night. Murai was one of the five top leaders of the cult. 
Murai underwent surgery, but died of blood loss and inter­nal injuries several hours later. He was pronounced dead early Monday morning, poliee said. Television networks broke into regular programming to broad­cast the attack nationwide, some repeatedly showing a knife plunging into Murai's side in slow motion. 
Aum believers were shown crying hysterically as Murai was taken away semiconscious. Dozens gathered at the hospital to donate blood for transfu­sions. 
"Why didn't the police pro­tect him?" Yoshinobu Aoyama, the cult's lawyer, demanded after the attack. "They could have predicted this kind of thing." 
Murai, 36, was believed to be a focus of the investigation into whether the cult was involved in the March 20 subway attack, which killed 12 people and sickened 5,500. 
An attacker who called him­self a right-wing extremist got to him first, however, pushing his way through a throng of media people staking out the cult's Tokyo headquarters and 
great scores••• 

Kaplan helps you focus your GRE studies and build your confidence so you can get a higher score. 
great scores••• 

Kaplan helps you focus your LSAT studies and build your confidence so you can get a higher score. 
great· scores••• 

Kaplan helps you locus your MCAT studies and build your confidence, so you can get a higher score. 
slashing repeatedly at Murai ~th a kitchen knife. 
After Murai collapsed into the door of the Aum office in a pool of blood, the attacker dropped his bloodstained weapon and was arrested by police at the scene. 
Police identified him as lli­royuki Jo, 29, and said he claimed to be a member of a rightist organization. 
Japan's state-run television network, NHK, said Jo told po­lice he wanted to punish Murai because of trouble caused by the cult. 
The cult has denied any con­nection with the Tokyo attaek. 
Yet the cult has been the fo­cus of an intense police investi­gation sinee the March 20 sub­way killings. Police have con­ducted daily searches of cult compounds over the past month and discovered tons of chemicals and equipment that could have been used to pro­duce sarin, the kind of nerve gas used in the subway attaek. 
Reports quoting anonymous police sources said that officials have also uncovered evidence of facilities to make rifles, bio­logical warfare labs and even plans to purchase nuclear weapons from Russia. 
The subway killings inaugu­rated a series of crimes that have deeply rattled the Japanese sense of security. 
Ten days after the subway at­tack, Japan's top poliee official, who was responsible for the in­vestigation, was shot and near­ly killed as he left home for work. 
And, as Parliament passed a law banning the possession of sarin last week, hundreds of people were sickened by toxic fumes released at a major train station just south of Tokyo. Nearly two dozen more were hospitalized in a similar inci­dent at a shopping center near the same station Friday. 
Police have not made any ar­rests in any of those cases, and have not officially identified any suspects. 
·---------· 
t 
1-800-KAP-TEST Summer/Fall Class Info 
get a higher score 

KAPLAN 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TEST 
summer/fall class Info 
get a higher score 

KAPLAN 
• l'.s documented In !he May 199<4 Kaplan LSAT Performance SIUcf':' OCifld.lcted by Price Waterhouse. 
----------.. 
Call: 1-BQO-KAP-TEST summer/fall class Info 
'
gat a higher score 



KAPLAN 

pageS The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, April 24, 1995 
MONDAY 
LET THE QUEST FOR THE CROWN 
FIRST ROUND DORM COMPETIONS FLAl' FOOTBALL(4•7 ALL WEEK @ STEPAN FIELDS) VoLLEYBALL TOURNEY( 4-8 ALL WEEK ON 
CAMPUS V•BALL COURTS) PIXXA DELIVERIES EucHRE TOURNEY--BIG PRIZES!!I 
(7·11 IN THE HUDDLE) 

WEDNESDA 
PIXXA DELIVE 
TIM O'NEILL 


FRIDAY 
AIRTOYS 8c sT 
ROLLERBLADIIE DERBY 

KRAUTMI&ER 8c Buc:K-o•NIN£(4-6, FtELD.HoU.sE MAu.,) FREE CiiAMES @ THE (iioRC:H(7·8) PoOL TOURNEY • &HOOT FOR BICil PRIXES(S·f t lit TH~)~QRCH) HAMMERHEAD--COMIC-MAGICIAN EXTA~~~lfii,ARE ... SDH FROM It :00 • .1:30 8c NDH F~~~ 5•7 8c 
8:00 • 9:30 SHOW IN LAFUN 8ALLROOM MONTY PYTHON1S MEANING OF LIFE 
@MoNTGOMERY THEATRE) 

Monday April 24, 1995 
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Jospin wins first-round vote 
By DAVID CRARY 
Associat~d Press 
PARIS 

In a startling upset, Socialist Lionel Jospin finished first Sun­day in the opening round of France's presidential election. The favorite, conservative Paris Mayor Jacques Chirac, took the second runoff spot. 
Jospin, a former education minister, benefited from in­fighting that divided the more powerful right. But he faces an uphill battle in the final round of voting May 7, since French voters have tended to lean right in recent elections. 
Conservative Premier Edouard Balladur conceded he was eliminated from the race and urged conservatives to back Chirac. 
For the 40.1 million regis­tered voters, the election was the first step in choosing their first new president in 14 years. The 78-year-old incumbent, Socialist Francois Mitterrand, had given only lukewarm back­ing to Jospin, but this may have helped the candidate avoid being seen as a continuation of a now-uninspired administra­tion. 
"You have created conditions for hope," Jospin told cheering supporters at Socialist Party headquarters. 
With nearly 90 percent of the votes counted, Jospin had 23 percent, Chirac about 20 per­cent, and Balladur 19 percent. 
Far-right voters showed their strength, giving Jean-Marie Le Pen of anti-immigrant National Front, his best-ever showing of more than 15 percent, accord­

APrrerry Kole 
ing to the projections. 
France's presidency is among the most powerful in the West. The president controls foreign and defense policy, appoints the prime minister, presides over Cabinet meetings, influ­ences judicial appointments and can dissolve Parliament. 
Chirac and Jospin have few significant differences in for­eign policy. Both also have promised to make unemploy­ment their No. 1 target, but any overtly leftist remedies es­poused by Jospin would be un· likely to clear the conservative­dominated Parliament. 
Jospin, waging his first na­tional campaign, had to scram­ble to ensure the Socialist Party was included in the second round. 
Only once since the current electoral system was imple­mented 30 years ago -in 1969 -was the left excluded from a presidential runoff, and Jospin's lead was the smallest ever of a first-round winner. 
The last polls published be­fore the voting showed Chirac with a solid lead over Jospin and Balladur, who were locked in a close race for second. 
Either conservative -Chirac or Balladur -would have been favored in a runoff with Jospin because of a recent conserva­tive swing among French vot­ers. 
Turnout in French presiden­tial elections is usually above 80 percent, but estimates by major polling firms predicted Sunday's election could fall just under that mark. 
The election was filled with suspense because polls found more than a third of voters were undecided a week ago. Those voters appeared to have spared France an all-conserva­tive runoff. 
If Balladur, 65, had faced Chirac, 62, in the second round, it would have deeply divided the governing conservative majority and humiliate Mitterrand's once-powerful party, which controlled Parlia­ment as recently as March 1993. 
Instead, a Jospin-Chirac runoff means an abrupt end to the political career of the patri­cian Balladur, who was the heavy favorite until February. 

Berlusconi takes lead in regional elections 
By VICTOR SIMPSON 
Associated Press 
ROME 
Silvio Berlusconi's center­
right coalition took a slight lead 
in regional elections Sunday, 
falling short of a resounding 
victory in the media magnate's 
campaign to return to power, 
exit polls suggested. 
The local races were seen as a prelude to national elections: They offered the first direct test of the two big alliances formed after Berlusconi's government collapsed in December. 
Berlusconi said the outcome showed that voters wanted what he wants -general elec­tions "as soon as possible." 
His Forza ltalia party emerged as the No. 1 party, as much as 2.5 percentage points ahead of the former Commu­nists, exit polls showed. The votes are to be counted official­ly on Monday. 
RAI state television gave six regions to Berlusconi's conser­vative alliance and five to a coalition dominated by the ex­Communists. It said four were too close to call. 
The exit polls gave 45 percent of the vote to the conservative alliance, around· 44 percent to the leftist-dominated coalition and other parties on the left and the rest to the regional Northern League and fringe parties. 
Neither Berlusconi nor the leader of the leftist alliance, Romano Prodi, a former state industrialist, ran Sunday. 
Some 43 million voters were eligible to take part in the vot­
ing for the legislatures of 15 of 
the country's 20 regions, 76 
provinces and 5,135 towns and 
cities, Florence and Bologna the 
biggest among them. 
The conservatives captured, according to the exit polls, the northern economic power­houses Lombardy and Pied­mont, as well as the Veneto, and the poorer southern re­gions Calabria and Puglia. 
"The moderate electorate has 
prevailed," said Antonio Tajani. 
the Forza Italia spokesman. 
The left won in traditional Communist strongholds Tus­cany, Umbria and Emilia-Ro­magna, as well as the Marche on the Adriatic coast. 
"The right is not growing stronger, but has stopped mov­ing ahead," said the leftist leader, Massimo D'Alema. He called the projections "a good result." 
Rome's region of Lazio, where the conservatives had been favored, was considered too close to call. 
Parliament now is about equally divided between the two blocs. Forza ltalia (Let's Go, Italy) is allied with the right-wing National Alliance, successor to the neo-fascist party. 
A win for the center-right will likely bolster Berlusconi's call for a June vote. Since he was forced to resign when an ally broke with his coalition, Berlus­coni has been demanding na­tional elections as soon as pos­sible, hoping to capitalize on his popularity. D'Alema wants to hold them in October. 

The Merger of Continental with BankAmerica Sponsored By: Center for Research in Banking ***** ***** Monday April24, 1995 Hayes-Healy Auditorium (Room 122) 3:15p.m.  Bank  






VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Managing Editor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Michad O'Hara Ad Design Manager ....................... Ryan Malayter Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............... -........... Sean Gallavan Photo Editor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 9ay Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 
Monday, April24, 1995 


• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Award recipient should bejudged on all issues 
The 1995 Notre Dame Award was con­ferred on Helen Suzman, who led the fight against apartheid as a member of the South African Parliament from 1953 to 1989. Established in 1992, the Award honors those "whose deeds give witness to God's kingdom among us." 
Mrs. Suzman's opposition to apartheid was laudable. In a 1968 speech, she denounced the view that the source of violence was in the black community and not in the racist state: "I say that uprooting people at dawn or on a wintry evening in a shanty town, and bundling 
Charles Rice 


women and children into police vans is a violence ... [A]ll the powers that circum­vent the normal civil liberties are a vio­lence. Banning, house arrests, deten­tion without trial, banishment are all a violence_" Very true. But wait a minute. So is execution of the innocent pre-born, "a violence." 
The parliamentary record, which I have read, confirms that Mrs. Suzman, over more than two decades, was a relentless advocate of permissive abor­tion. Incidentally, as of this writing, nei­ther the Catholic Bishops Conference of South Africa, nor any individual bishop or cleric in authority, has publicly com­mented on the Award to Mrs. Suzman. 
The Abortion and Sterilization Act of 197 5 first permitted abortion in South Africa_ Mrs. Suzman attacked it as too restrictive and repeatedly sought to lib­eralize it_ In the debate on the 1975 Act, she said, "I was the first member to raise the whole question of the need for abortion reform in this House. I did so by way of questions I put in 1968 and 1969. I also raised it.. .in 1971 [and in] 1972," Feb. 10, 1975, p. 491. 
In 1972, Mrs_ Suzman said, "abortion should be legalized in cases where the mother's life is in danger or her physical or mental health will be affected by the continuation of the pregnancy [and] where there is a considerable danger that the unborn child, when born, will be seriously retarded mentally, or physi­cally deformed [and] where pregnancy is a result of rape." Feb. 18, 1972, p. 1429. 
In 1982, Mrs. Suzman said: "If a woman is mentally defective._.she should be able to have the pregnancy terminated." March 2, 1982, p. 1991. She insisted that abortion should be allowed for "any woman who is mentally defective and not only those who are permanently defective." p. 1992. She moved to change "permanent" damage to mental health, in the Act, to "seri­ous". pp1991-94. Mrs. Suzman also argued strongly that abortion should be allowed in any case of "failed steriliza­tion, " where "a woman had fallen pregnant despite having had a steriliza­tion_" p. 1989. 
Mrs. Suzman said, "I would like to see abortion on request, though not on demand," The Citizen, Mar. 9, 1982. As she stated in Parliament, "we should not talk about 'abortion on demand' because the right terminology is 'abor­tion on request' when one discusses the whole idea of liberalizing abortion laws." May 20, 1985, p.5811. 
To Mrs. Suzman, abortion is a back-up family planning technique. She said that "most contraceptive methods fall short of providing complete protection against unwanted pregnancy ... [O]ne is not asking for legalized abortion, in­stead of family planning. It is in addi­tion to family planning, because family planning often fails.._The male chauvin­ists ... are going to be thwarted in so far as they insist that children under the age of 16-I think that this is incredi­ble-should be forced to have illegit­imate children and that middle-aged women over the age of 40, who already 

• llOONESBURY 
THe JURY.' 7HeY'R& 
f)ROPP/NG UKE FLifb! 
NO IAIAY 7H&Y'R& 
NOTGOING TOf./78 
AU-THeA/.-n:RNAT£5/ 
~ 

have large families and do not want any more children because the family is large and the income small, should keep unwanted offspring." March 2, 1982, pp. 1992-93. 
Mrs. Suzman supported abortion as a population control device. "I believe," she said, "that there is no way in which we are going to achieve the ideal 2.1­child family ... unless [we] liberalize our abortion laws," May 20, 1985, p. 5814. She emphasized that "legalizing abor­tions for girls under the age of 16 ... would be a vital step in reducing population growth ... since postponement of the first pregnancy is an essential fac­tor in achieving this objective," May 20, 1985, pp. 5812-13. 
Abortion, of course, is not "postpone­ment" of a pregnancy. It is the termina­tion of that pregnancy by the murder of 
'Abortion, of course, in not 
"postponement" of preg­nancy. It is the termination of that pregnancy by the murder of the unborn child.' 
the unborn child. As Pope John Paul II said in his new encyclical, Evangelium Vitae, "The moral gravity of procured abortion is apparent in all its truth if we recognize that we are dealing with mur­der." No. 58. Mrs. Suzman, by contrast. said in 1992: "I have strong views on abortion laws and would have them lib­eralized so as to put them in line with the pro-choice supporters_ In other words, I would allow a women to have an abortion without penalty of the law and would not make this dependent on the ... provisos .. .in the ... Act of 1975," The Star, Aug. 16, 1992. 
Notre Dame president Father Edward 
A. Malloy, C.S.C., called Mrs. Suzman a "freedom fighter," and said her "politi­cal career has been driven by the hunger and thirst for justice which the 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOU'Re ON. 
I'U.9&Nl? 
Ht:ROVt:l< f'OR.7H/3 
KEYS. 
~ 
Beatitudes celebrate." However, Mrs. Suzman fought not only for freedom from the violence of apartheid but also for the freedom to inflict the ultimate violence on the most innocent and help­less victims of all. Perhaps only in today' s Notre Dame could such a record be honored as exemplifying the hunger and thirst for justice commend­ed by Christ in the Beatitudes. 
The Award to Mrs. Suzman confirms that the operative official religion of this "Catholic" university is political correct­ness. On apartheid, the moral impera­tives and political correctness coincide. But it is difficult to imagine any position more politically incorrect than uncom­promising opposition to abortion. If our striving-to-be-accepted leaders refused to honor as a humanitarian anyone who advocates the legalized execution of the pre-born, it would cost them political correctness points among the movers and shakers in academia, the media, foundations and government. Or maybe our leaders just don't see the pro-life issue as a big deal. The Vicar of Christ, of course, sees it differently: "[W]e are facing an enormous and dramatic clash between good and evil, death and life, the 'culture of death' and the 'culture of life.' We find ourselves not only 'faced with' but necessarily 'in the midst of this conflict: we are all involved and we all share in it with the responsibility of choosing to be unconditionally pro-life." Evangelium Vitae, (No. 28) (Emphasis in original). 
On a final note, we should keep this Award in context. Since the bestowal of the 1992 Laetare Medal on the egre­giously pro-abortion Senator Daniel P. Moynihan, Notre Dame honors don't mean that much anyway. And maybe we should be relieved that the Award went to Mrs. Suzman. Given the evident mindset of our leaders it could have been Teddy Kennedy_ Or Hillary. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"Genius is nothing but a greater aptitude for patience." 
-George Louis Leclerc du Buffon 



ACCt=:NT 
Monday, April 24, 1995 page 11 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH FAT MAN AND DADDY 

Kiss of Death 
out of four 
*** 

J:
mmy Kilmartin (David Caruso) has abandoned a life ofcar thievery for a tradi­tional life with his wife and young daughter. His cousin and ex-buddy in crime. Ronnie, storms into his house one night pleading for help: ifJimmy doesn't help him with job right now he'll suffer severe injury at the hands ofthe nefarious and redundant Little Junior (Nicolas Cage). The job gets busted, a cop gets shot. and Jimmy lands in jail. From the cooler, he learns that Ronnie has betrayed him and he sets out to get his revenge and obtain freedom by cooperating with the authorities and hatching a plan that will eliminate Ronnie and indict Little Junior. 
Daddy: It's that time again. Time for those at home to buckle down and soak in 
the wit and the wisdom that gives them what they need to keep on keeping on. As 
in the past, Daddy serves as the medium for this chivalrous exchange, time after 
time pouring pure edification through an Observer funnel directly into your minds 
and your consciousness. Today we examine "Kiss of Death," a pleasant waste of 
time that combines the elements of humor and violence that are sure to please one 
and all. 
"Kiss of Death" begins its cinematic journey where so many other movies have left otT. The reformed crook is sucked right back into the fetid cesspool of organized crime by his longstanding attachments and perceived responsibilities. The foolproof plan inevitably and predictably fails; and the sentimental hero is left responsible for the aetions of which he is essentially innocent. The poor sap (David Caruso) goes to jail and is forced to work undercover for the legal powers that be. This situation once again places the quintessential mob movie Christ figure (insert pertinent char­aeter name here) in a dilemma that risks his safety as well as that of his family. The hard luck kid eventually outsmarts everybody and the movie ends with blase reunions and sickening Disney-esque overtures. Daddy's Hollywood Tip of the Day: Writers, for the love of all things sacred, come up with a new plot! 
Those at home might be wondering why I said that I liked this movie. The answer 
is simple: Daddy can't get enough of Nicholas Cage! Czar Nicholas is undeniably 
one of Hollywood's best young actors; a theatrical monolith whose skills far super­
sede the paltry and meager talents of hacks like Cruise and Reeves. The perfor­
mances of Cage and Samuel Jackson (Calvin) make "Kiss of Death" a film worth 
seeing because of their screen presence alone. My only casting complaint is the 
seleetion of Helen Hunt to play Caruso's wife. If all of Paul Reiser's co-stars are to 
eventually rise up to play with the big dogs I'd suggest we all get ready to skip town 
when the cast of "My Two Dads" get their breaks. 
From a stylistic standpoint, "Kiss of Death" is certainly an aesthetic pleasure. 
Subtle angles and clever framing bring the final print to life when it is witnessed 
through the modicum of the big screen. The audience members at times feel as 
though they are actually walking along the same putrid and festering Bronx streets 
(as if there is any other kind of street in the "Big Crappie") pounded by David 
Caruso. Jackson and Cage deftly fill up the remaining space vacated by what is, at 
timlls, inspiring scenery and thus make this movie worth your greenbacks. 
·Fatman: Aaaaaahhhhh, the classic New York underworld film. Seedy gangsters, sleazy hang out joints, and scheming plans to make a quiek buck are usually accom­panied by stylish camera work and snappy dialogue in this near genre of films. "Kiss of Death" strives to bring about yet another crime film in the spirit of Martin Scorsese and Abel Ferrara. With a strong cast that includes David Caruso, Samuel 
L. Jaekson. and one of Fatman's favorite actors, Nicolas Cage, the film strives to overcome a rather unoriginal story comprised of slacking dialogue through the strong presence of its cast. 
The plot line of "Kiss of Death" slags with unoriginality. The sleazy D.A., a slick, expensively clad bastard who prostitutes himself for whatever can advance his career, is hardly a new invention. One need only watch F. Lee Bailey and company on CNN to catch the essence of this sort of man. The crazy/quirky villain, Little Junior, runs guns, steals cars, and dabbles in drugs. All of this has been done before in better scripted films, but the actors in "Kiss of Death" don't allow this familiarity to choke their roles. Nothing excellent comes of the film, but an enjoy­able revisitation of the New York underworld through a slightly different angle is a lot better than most things in life. Really, the only thing the Fatman would rather do than watch a gangster film would be to challenge literary and physical big boy J. Ozersky to an all out, all you can eat, pig fest. I do this not for the fame, fortune. and cosmic laudations that I would receive when I vanquished my foe, but rather I know that he would be unable to talk during the contest and for a few brief, glorious hours, the world could be at peace. 
The Fatman must express his pleasure with David Caruso. Not expecting a strong performance from this somewhat portly man, I was surprised by his demeanor on stage. Nicolas Cage, as always, provided a good dose of his idiosyncratic style. He still has the charisma he had when he donned panty hose over his face and robbed a convenience store of its cash and diapers in "Raising Arizona". In "Kiss of Death", he looks a lot larger than he used to be. Maybe he has been partaking of the muscle wine that his uncle Francis Ford Coppola has been fermenting and selling across America. 
Generally, "Kiss of Death" is a good movie; it's nothing spectacular and it sags in many places. But the movie can be pretty exciting, especially two scenes where Caruso's cousin Ronnie is literally beaten to death by Nicolas Cage or when Caruso races to remove a wire placed on him. Its no "Pulp Fiction" or "Goodfellas", but it certainly is not as bad as "Billy Bathgate" or, the salty dog of all gangster films, "Mobsters." 
Fat Man and Daddy are John Zack and Scott Bozik. Their movie reviews appear every Monday. 

Photo courtesy of James Bridges/ Twentieth Century Fox 
"Kiss of Death" is David Caruso's (right) first film since leaving the cop show "NYPD Blue." 
-------~-~----... 
r~-·~--­
I 
I page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 24, 1995 
• SAINT MARY'S TENNiS  •NBA  
Persistence paces victory  Knicks hands Magic  
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Spans Editor  forgot about the fall," said senior and #1 doubles player  said Kromer. "By the time she got to the third set in singles,  seventh straight loss  
Robin Hrycko.  she must have been incredibly  
Through a faithful attitude  The  team's  coach  Katie  tired."  By WENDY E. LANE  Charles Smith scored a sea­ 
and the refusal to give up, the  Cromer attributed the team's  The team won two of their  Associated Press  son-high 29  as the Knicks  
Saint Mary's tennis team con­ success especially to the per~  three-setters, but lost three as  stayed in command the rest of  
tinues to remain dominant in  formances of sophomore Anne  well.  Sophomore Kate Kozacik  NEW YORK  the way.  
their matches.  The team has  Underwood and freshman Jen  beat a highly ranked player in  New York hit 12 3-pointers,  Shaquille O'Neal was in foul  
had to make several adjust­ Brahler.  the Midwest in a three-setter,  including four in  a  row by  trouble in the second half, so  
ments in their lineup thus far,  On  Saturday,  the  Belles  with scores of 6-4, 6-4, 6-4.  Hubert Davis in the fourth  the Magic went to the perime­ 
but has yet to show signs of  played an effort-driven match  "The match could have gone  quarter, as the Knicks beat  ter, too. Dennis Scott hit five  
surrender.  Thursday the team  against Weaton.  Although the  either way.  Unfortunately, it  Orlando  113-99  Sunday,  3-pointers, scoring a season­ 
w~  victorious against Saint  team fell to Weaton 6-3, the  didn't go ours," said Kromer.  sending the Magic into the  high 38.  
Joseph's (5-4) in an unexpected  match was extremely close  On Tuesday, the Belles will  playoffs with a seven-game  
win.  with several three  setters.  battle Kalamazoo.  road losing streak.  Even  though  the  game  
Saint Joseph's is a Division II  Coach Kromer expressed the  With starters Patrick Ewing  meant nothing in the stand­ 
team, with a fifth-ranked num­ reason for the team's loss not  "Kalamazoo has always been  and Derek Harper sitting out  ings, the Magic was bent on  
ber one singles player, making  as caused by faults of the play­ strong," said Hrycko.  "This  a second straight game for  showing it could win on the  
the match a  big win for the  ers,  but rather the team's  year their team is young, but  New York, the Knicks turned  road after six consecutive  
Belles.  fatigue.  they take their tennis very seri­ to their outside game, stretch­ losses. Instead, Orlando lost  
"Saint Joseph's was a huge  "Almost every match went in  ously. Tuesday will be a tough  ing a six-point lead to 98-85  for the 16th time in 20 road  
win for  us.  They killed us in  three sets-singles and doubles.  match for us, but I don't think  with 8:06 left when Davis hit  games and finished the regu­ 
the fall, and we've lost a lot of  Anne Underwood won her dou­ that a  victory is out of our  four treys in a 2:15 span.  lar season 18-23 away from  
players since then.  Luckily,  bles match in three sets, and  reach if we go in there with a  John Starks had five  3­ Orlando Arena, where the  
everyone gave 100% and we  then began her singles match,"  positive attitude."  pointers and 26 points, and  Magic lost only twice.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NATIONAL PARKS HIRING·  I am driving I Sacramento, CA after  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  J,  
NOTICES  Seasonal & full-time employment available at National Parks, Forests  graduation. A passenger would be pretty cool. Call Aaron @ x 2052  at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavato­ EXPERIENCE THE PHILIPPINES FOOD, MUSIC. & DANCE !!!  and you tell ME I'm not realistic ... He's got a son, for God's  
& Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  for details.  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  sake.  
Antostal Cinema­ bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext.  ground level. Lease back to owner  * * * FIESTANG FILIPINO***  
Tues-Monty Python Thurs-Sneakers  N55843  FOR RENT  through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700.  Sat., April 29th  Lisa & Andrea missed the boatll Fellow Seniors-We need a booze  
Fri-Strange Brew  Employment opportunity with an  6 p.m. @ the esc  cruise ticket and fast! X2514-Will  
Fri/Sat-Star Trek:Generations  Architectural and Engineering firm  COLLEGE PARK CONDO:  84 Pymouth.· Runs great, Great gas  pay a handsome ransom!l  
See Antostal Poster for details ...  located in historic Lafayette, Indiana  For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished  mig. $1000 OBO-289-1746  Tix available at LaFortune Info  
for ARCHITECTURAL GRADUATE  unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st.  Desk, NOH, & SOH.  Don't Forget Sophomores ...  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  with AutoCAD proficiency and 3  Call: (818)441-1275  Duplex, perfect for students. 6  
Are you going to read those things  months office experience. Resume  blocks from campus. 1 bedrm and 2  The CLASS SERVICE PROJECT  
again? I think not. 2323-2342  to H.L. Mohler & Associates, P.C.,  *******•**NOTICE•••••••••*****  bedrm apts. 607 E. Corby, $20,500  at the NE Neighborhood is going  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  839 Main Street, Lafayette, IN  If you are interested in living at  by owner. 616-483-9572  ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE  strong but can always use new vol­ 
47901  Turtle Creek next year, call Chris  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse  unteers. Its a lot of fun -give it a try.  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ at 273-1399 as soon as possible.  Sturdy LOFT 4sale. call Jeannine at  happily married for seven years are  We leave at 2:30pm and  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  L'ARCHE HARBOR HOUSE in  x3747. Will take down this week­ hoping to share our love with a  3:30pm from Main Circle every  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  Jacksonville, Florida invites you to a  ~  end. $30.  child. We love the outdoors, have  Wednesday and Friday, and return  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ year of service creating community  EXPERIENCE THE PHILIPPINES  comfortable home and country lake­ at4:30. Call Brian x1 058.  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA·  with persons who are mentally dis­ FOOD, MUSIC, & DANCE II!  very cool LOFT for sale X2533  side cottage. Will provide secure,  
N,.EE, 219-77.3:2034.  abled. Responsibilities include:  loving home with full time mom.  I hope the Celica is doing alright  
assist in creating a home based on  * * * FIESTANG FILIPINO***  486 DX-33 tower system with dual  Counseling and allowable expens­ 
the Gospel; develop relationships  floppy, 246M HD, mouse, SVGA  es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800-469­ And on Sunday, the urine ran out.  
EXPERIENCE THE PHILIPPINES  with members; and assist in per­ Sat., April 29th  monitor, color printer, and more.  0559  However we will live to urinate  
FOOD, MUSIC, & DANCE !!!  sonal care and community living.  6 p.m. @ the esc  $945 obo. Tom 3253.  again.  
Requirements include a desire to  To all the supporters of that vastly  
* * * FIESTANG FILIPINO***  live with, leam from, and relate with  Tix available at LaFortune Info  FOR SALE: Still under warranty­ underrated club known as Vertical  Thank you to all the supporters of  
mentally disabled adults. Benefits  Desk, NOH, & SOH.  microwave $100 & 19" color tv wl  Pleasure,  Our Center Drank Urine. For your  
Sat., April 29th  include stipend, room, board, and  remote $125; also vcr w/ remote  cheering was never a waste.  
6 p.m. @ the esc  health insurance. To apply, contact  $75 OBO; 271-1586.1eave msg.  thanks for all the cheering and  
Dottie Klein, L'Arche, 700 Arlington  intensity. it helped a lot.  
Tix available at LaFortune Info  Rd., Jacksonville, FL 32211;  SALE: TWO MAN LOFT· GREAT  Spend some time during AnTostal  
Desk, NOH, & SOH.  (904)725-7740.  NEEDED: 1 bdrm apt to sublease  FOR CAMPUS VIEW, VERY  the sweaty kid and the rest  with underpriviledged kids!  
or roommate to share apt. this sum­ STURDY,BIG SPACE SAVER  
AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  mer call 284-5065  COUCH-JUST 2 YEARS OLDW/  EUROPE $199 o/w  The Sophomore Class will be  
BIG$$$+ FREE WORLD TRAVEL  PULLOUT BED, GREAT CONDI­ CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/1  adopting kids for two hours on FRI·  
WORD PROCESSING, TAXES,  (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII,  LIVE IN A GOOD AREA FUR·  TION  CALL 277-1704  If you can beat these prices start  DAY APRIL 28 and take them  
GIFTS. 256-6657  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  NISHED HOMES NORTH OF ND  your own damn airline!  around to play games on the quad  
EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929­ IDEAL FOR 3·7 PEOPLE 2773097  2-YR OLD PANASONIC PRINTER  AIR-TECH LTD. 212/219-7000  and see our campus.  Don't be  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from  4398 ext. C1082  FOR SALE· PERFECT COND.  info@ aerotech.com  embarrased to go bungee running  
around the world. GLOBAL GIFTS  CALL VAL 4-2597  and human bowling this year ­ 
at LaFortune Student Center, April  COUNSELORS WANTED for  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util.  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  adopt a little sibl To sign up or for  
25-28 Room 108 9am-6pm.  Kwiwanis Twin Lakes Camp located  624 Park (Historic District)  FOR SALE::  LaFortune Student Center  more information, call Brian x1058.  
in Plymounth, Ind. This is a sum­ Grad. Students pref. 232-6079  THE ULTIMATE HOOK-UP  -../ Quick turn around time! I!  
ILOST & FOUND I  mer camp for physically and men­tally handicapped children and  Need 1-2 bed arp. sublease for  COUCH EVERI!I This beautiful Ieaver love-seat can  -../ Most orders completed within 24 hours  BLUE CHEESE  
young adults. Most campers are  summer. Call Liberty at 289-5897.  be yours for only $161  ..J Free pick-up & delivery  
LOST black leather Coach gloves  age 7 thru 21, but we have lilted the  Yes that's right, $16!11 Call4072  to & from departments  KKKKKatie-­ 
lined w/ white shearting lost on Mar  age limit. The campers are from  COLLEGE PARK CONDO  We have crates and other crap for  ..J Caii631-COPY  Have you had any POTATOES  
4 between Oak Hill and campus call  the Chicago metro area and from all  2 Bedrooms, 2 Baths  sale too. Just ask  lately?? UMOC wants you!!  
Amyx4838  over the state of Indiana. We want  Available June 1st -mid-August  SHENANIGANS  
If .anyone found a pair of glasses in  you to have an interest in working with disabled children. The camp  Call 273-9773  TICKETS  Annual Spring Concert 8:00p.m. Tues., April 25th  IS THAT A REAL ONE?????  
LaFortune (although! it could have  sessions run from June 11 to  Washington Hall  Kiddo,  
been anywhere on campus) last  August 16 with orientation the week  FURNISHED ROOM, AIR,  Need a lot of extra graduation tick­ FREE ADMISSION  Sympathy, sympathy, sympathy,  
week (4/5 or 4/6) in ablack flip­ prior . We provide room and board  KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF  ets. x3711  tickets avail. at Lafort. Info. Desk  is that enough?  
open case (by the TV somewhere) I  plus $1.000.00. If interested please  CAMPUS. 272-0615.  -An lllinios Farmer  
desperately need them back.  call the camp's winter office 312­ 4 TIX PAGE/PLANT CHICAGO  ****"'******DON'T MISS* ...*****U  
They are tawny, oval-shaped  767-CAMP  Student Apts. in 3-flat, heat includ­ Rosemont Horizon  Tim O'Neill  (The Piano Man!!)  I deny any and all allegations  
frames by prodesign. Finals are  ed. Furnished studio, $230.  5 th  ROW CENTER  in the LaFortune Ballroom for  against me ..... .  
coming up and I can't read without  SUMMER JOBS ALL  Furnished 1 bedrm, $265.  Call w/ best offer  another Great Antostal performance  
themll! (219) 272-1778  LAND/WATER SPORTS  Unfurnished lge 1 bedrm, $330. 755  John x1478  this Wednesday evening, April 26  N  
PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  South Bend Ave.-1 blk. west of ND  at 9:00pm.  Please. can I have a scratch.  
LOST: My sapphire pendant!  It's  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Ave. Deposit, 1-800-582-9320  I NEED 2 tickets for Graduation  Your $2.00 donation will benefit a  it'll make me laugh a lot.  
an oval shaped sapphire, surround­ NEAR LAKE PLACID  Please call PAUL x3580  local charity. See you there!  D  
ed by diamonds, set in  1-800-786-8373  HOMES FOR RENT  
gold.  I lost it when my necklace  NEAR CAMPUS  I Need extra GRADUATION TIX  CONGRATULATIONS  South bend weather is very nice.  
broke. walking from Fischer­ ND/SMC student needed to babysit  232-2595  If you can help please call  BP PEPPERMINT PATTIES  love Aprils in the '40's.  It sucks  
.<  O'hara-Grace to the Law School  in South Bend for 8 weeks this  Ed @ 634-4204.  ON YOUR 2ND PLACE FINISH !I  about as much as the Frankenstein  
Wednesday afternoon, April 6.  summer. Must have excellent refer­ ATTENTION: Summer School  hook.  
PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE call  ences, love kids and like to have  Students! Sublet our College Park  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!  
me at 4-3953 if you've found it -it  fun. Call 6-9 pm, 708-524-9386.  Condo June 1st -Aug. 1st 2BR,  Grandpa and Grandma have been  CONGRATULATIONS  
has special meaning to me.  2BA Call272-6713  waiting 22 yrs. for this. 273-6537.$  BP SOFTBALL !!  CLUE: if you're going to do those  
REWARD offered.  WANTED: someone to ride home  (and the shady lady)  kind of things (ie, hit your cheek ...  
to California or some state close.  SUBLET THIS SUMMERI  2 grad tix needed 289-9420  yeah, whatever), make sure you  
Lost: Set of keys on a soccer key­ leaving May 21st. please call  College Park Condo- we're on our way..if we ever play  lock the door next time.  
chain. If you know where they are  ASAP ...I need to make plans  2 females needed I  Need 5 grad tix for brothers and  any more games.  
please call4-1456.  soon !!  Call Anne @ x1327.  272-1538  sisters.  They've been waiting  (to music)  
23 years for this ­ PLEASE call  Florida '95 Quotes  we don't need another heeee-roo.  
LOST -sMALL BURGUNDY  Looking for roommates for Turtle  4-2869.  Very desperate  10. I think I burnt my ear.  
LEATHER CHANGE PURSE  SUMMER INTERNSHIPS: VEC­ Creek townhouse. $195 mo.+ util.  9. Shake your shamrocks.  -or do we?  
REWARD ·CALL 1-5707  TOR INTERNATIONAL-Accepting  Call277-9659.  .  PERSONAL  8. Wanna see my tatoo? It's real!  
WANTED  applications for summer openings at 285 locations across the U.S. All majors, Freshman-Senior.  FOR SALE  I  1 000 The Copy Shop 000  7. GOOFYI 6. Long, hard, and meaty. 5...., as well.  no more scraping of old cabinents for me ... can't we just paint the doors shut so that we don't have to  
Scholarships available (6 previous  LaFortune Student Center  4....ya-da, ya-da, ya-da.  clean them?  
HOME FOR FISH-OSCAR &  scholarships awarded to Notre  '80 TRIUMPH TR7 Convertible,  WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  3. Shut-up, Ed.  
SUCKER -FOR SUMMER &/OR  Dame students.) For information  brown w/ tan interior, great  & WEEKENDS FOR YOUR  2. Hakuna Matata!  Happy Birthdays Mom & Terri Ill  
NEXT YEAR-WE'RE GRADUAT­ contact South Bend office at 282­ cond. Near ND. $4,500 OBO  CONVENIENCE!! I  1. Nothin' but the BEST for my  -love. Belle  
ING.  2357  277.2684.  Phone 631-COPY  friends!!  

Monday, April 24, 1995 
• DEATH Of HOWARD COSELL 
Sportscasting legend dies at the age of 77 
By JOHN NELSON 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Boward Cosell, whose caustic "tell it like it is" personality made him the most celebrated sportscaster ever and turned "Monday Night Football" into a national institution, died Sunday. He was 77. 
Cosell, who underwent can­cer surgery in 1991, died at 4 
a.m. EDT at NYU's Hospital for Joint Diseases, his grandson Justin Cohane said. 
Cohane said Cosell died of a heart embolism after a long ill­ness. 
He was the strident, colorful voice of ABC radio and televi­sion from 1953 to 199.2. It was a period of phenomenal growth and change in America's pas­times, spurred by television's cascading millions and increased greed among both athletes and promoters. 
"Howard Cosell was one of the most original people ever to appear on American televi­sion," said ABC News president Hoone Arledge, who was head of ABC Sports during Cosell's heyday. "Be became a giant by the simple act of telling the truth in an industry that was not used to hearing it and con­sidered it revolutionary." 
Cosell was one of the first sportscasters to acknowledge Muhammad Ali by his new name after he changed it from Cassius Clay and stood up for Ali when the heavyweight ehampion refused to enter mili­tary service during the Vietnam War and was stripped of his title. 
"Howard Cosell was a good man and he lived a good life," Ali said. "I have been in­terviewed by many people, but I enjoyed interviews with Howard the best. We always put on a good show. l hope to meet him one day in the here­after. I can hear Howard now saying, 'Muhammad, you're not the man you used to be.' I pray that he is in God's hands. I will miss him." 
Cosell's acid tongue generat­ed bitter feuds with not only the print media but also con­temporaries in broadcasting. Few, high or low, escaped his often bitter sarcasm, including the institutions on whom his fame was based, boxing and the NFL. 
"I never sacrificed truth in the name of friendship," he insisted. 
But he could exhibit stubborn loyalty when his sense of right and wrong was outraged. 
Cosell was vilified by many when he defended Ali, but the boxer went on to beat the gov­ernment in the courts, reclaim his crown and become one of the most popular champions in history. Cosell held firm and emerged as an even more cele­brated figure. 
"It was a fight Ali had to make. He made it and won," Cosell said. "People said we, Ali and I, played off each other. That's partially true.'' 
The Observer • SPORTS 

• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAll RESULTS -The Knights Who Say "Ni" def. 5 Players to Be Named Later 21-9 -Substantial Renovation def. Vertical Pleasure 
21-19 
-Showtime def. Team 48 21-8 

-Who Are 5 Guys ... def. Dick Dover Byrosenthal II 21-7 
-Fat T and 4 Dollar Refills def. Bittermen 24-22 
-Lou's Worst Nightmare def. Desire 21-19 
-Cactus Jack's def. Freshmen, Friends, Buddies 21-7 -Woody and 4 Stiffs def. Shooters 21-6 
-Voodo Freaks def. Barbara's Revenge 21­8 
-Vanilla Kernels def. We'll Work You ... 21-11 
-4 Irishmen and a Fifth def. Gallo's Finest 22­20 
-Dos Kloskas def. Get Me 21-6 

-Team Formerly Known as Prince def. Paul O'Linney Fan Club 21-15 
-Let Loose the Juice def. Shicky and Jackie ... 21-6 
-5 the Hard Way def. Jelly Tomvskies 21-15 
-O'Malley 29'ers def. Our Center Drank Urine 21-9 -Brother Lewis def. Salubrious 21-17 -1200 lbs. def. Pork Chops 21-1 0 -Carroll Hall ... def. Kudos, Genius 21-13 -Team 524 def. Team 189 21-19 -Straight Shooters def. Big Cat and 4 Other Guys 21-5 
-Sweeter than Candy def. Team 38 21-1 I 
-Now, Give Me Some Candy def. Samuel L. 
Bronkowitz 21-1 3 -Dauntless Dogs def. Better on Hardwood 21­
page 13 

II -Rebel Alliance def. Coach's Worst Nightmare 21-14 -Pink Sky in the Morning def. Rise and Penetrate 
21-3 -Villa de Lobos def. Bus Drivers 23-21 -Keep Your Pink Triangles Out ... def Quetilla 
White Lightning 21-19 -Swoosh def. 4 Guys and a Girl Who Plays with Them 21-4 
def. Mookie Blaylocks 4 21-4 
-Ezekiel 25:17 def. In Memory of PhiLuu 21-9 -Pass the Beernuts V def. 
Team 399 21-18 -L-Train def. Total Consciousness 21-8 -Wooden Shoes def. Furious 21-15 -Team 90 def. Mrs. Rehs 

26-24 -Blitz Kreig def. The Further We Go ... 21-11 -60" of Vertical def. Fat Bob and Sausage 
Factory 21-19 -Afrodeeziaks def. This Won't Entail Us 
Dressing ... 21-9 -Suave-ltos def. Quivering Epidydemes 21-16 -Prisoners of Gravity def. Morning Glory 21-15 -Big Chief and Little Indians def. Potash 21-4 -Diamondbacks def. Lunkers 21-1 0 -Models Inc. def. Orangejeboom 21-13 -Blue def. MCI ... 21-13 -Backwoods Boys def. Phloam 21-1 I -You Can't Handle the Truth def. Cherry and 
the Grumpy Old Men 21-1 0 -Yo Yo Yo def. Bob and 4 Other ... 21-11 -Saxual Frustration 2 def. Hell's Belles 21-17 
... 


Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintoshe easy. So easy, in fact, that the prices on Macintosh personal 
Two thingsyou can afford to miss. computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hard your life is for a minute and start thinking about how easy it will bewithaMacintosh.'Jhecomput­er that gives you the power any student can use.The power to be 
, 

your bese Appletl 

Produd {lrices, prrx/ud avaiklbl/ity and sales /axes may vary. ©1995 Apple Computet; Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple /ago, Macintosh, Macintosh Pejorma, PowerBook and "The power to heyour best" are registered lmdemarks ofApple Computet; Inc. l'rluw Macintosh and Mac are tmdemarks ofApple Computer, Inc. All Apple'products are designed to he accessible to Individuals with disabU/ty. 1b learn more (US. only), call 800-776-2333 or TDD 800-833-6223. 
pe.ge 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday April 24, 1995 
pended for the latter half of his Apparently a star at the com­
• SAINT MARY'S TRACK 
senior season, was chosen with bines, Davis's physical tools the 13th pick of the 5th round. were his upside. Much in the continued from page 20 Due to his checkered back­vein of Willie Clark, Davis may 
Draft 

Belles garner fourth 
ground and diminutive size, the be able to stick as a special 

place finish at Earlham 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saim Mary's Sports Editor 
The good keeps on getting better. Saint Mary's has never seen such a good team get bet­ter as it has seen with its track team so far this season. Saturday, the Belles finished in fourth place at the Earlham Invitational. 
The team scored 4B points, which was even better than Coach Larry Szczechowski had dreamed of. 
"I was warned by several other area coaches that the meet was going to be very com­petitive. The meet was com­petitive, but I was happy that we were still able to dominate," said Szczechowski. 
Among their successes were two first place finishes, one from sophomore Erin Mellifont and the other from sophomore Paula Kivinen. Mellifont earned her first place for her 
2:30.1 fmish in the BOOM, while Kivinen earned hers for her 4"10' high jump. 
"I was happy with my place in the high jump, but I wasn't proud of the distance. The conditions at Earlham were horrible, and I think that really hindered my jump, my feet were caught in the mud. But I figure they hindered everyone's jumps," said Kivinen. 
As always, the Belles finished well in their relays. The 4x400M relay qualified for soc­o.nd place with their time of 
4:40.1. The race involved Erin Mellifont, Paula Kivinen, fresh­man Lori Mrowka, and sopho­more Desiree Leak. Kivinen began her participation in the relay only a week prior, but will continue to run in the spot for the rest of the season due to its great success. 
"Our relay has been working really hard lately. Our hand­offs have gone really well, and we are extremely excited about next week's race," said Leak. 
The 4x100M relay also proved successful with their fourth place finish. Their time was 54.7, which was set by junior Jill Jusick, sophomore Kristin Donahue, sophomore Courtenay Powers, and senior JoAnn Weed. 
Sophomore Keary Sullivan ran the 5000M for the first time this season, and was rewarded for her efforts with a third place. Sullivan ran the 5000M in only 23 minutes and 29 sec­onds. 
A personal record was set by Desiree Leak in her 6B. 7 finish in the 400M which was good enough for a fifth place in the event. 
"The race was a really good feeling. I have been working to get my time down all season, and Saturday I really felt like I had reached my goal. I hoping to run around a 67 at Elmhurst," said Leak. 
Freshman Beth Phelan also was crucial to the team's suc­cess with her fourth place fin­ish in the BOOM and her fifth place finish in the 1500M. In addition to her participation in the success of the 4x400M relay, Lori Mrowka grabbed a fifth place in the 400M hurdles. 


•Specializing in engagement rings & anniversary rings· ·Award Winning Designs· •Custom Design and Repairs· 
~~ 
... JEWELERS INC.

277 1010 
.Cleveland Rd. East of UP Mall & US 31 North Villiage Mall 
Smart People Use Them! 
...the preferred shipping company at the most prestigious universities in the country! 
SHIP 
any package 
anywhere at a 
LOW COST 





BIIII¥Bi 
TEL: 800-752-6773 FAX: 508-664-3722 EMAIL: cargo@delphi.com 
llo size or wei1ht limits! 
the fourth round with the 22th pick. Gibson will face a challenge just to make the club, as the 
· Steel Curtain boasts a fairly deep front seven. His lack of size may hurt, but the Steelers obviously liked what they saw. 
The same must be said of the Cleveland Browns regarding receiver Mike Miller. The trou­bled Miller, who was sus­speedy Miller was often over­looked in draft circles. Rated as just the 50th best receiver in one list, Miller's potential as a return man was his selling point. Cleveland may have found themselves a poor man's Eric Metcalf if Miller can keep himself out of trouble. 

The other pleasant surprise had to be the Saints seventh round selection of Travis Davis. 
teams cover man. 
Other potential picks weren't as fortunate. Tight end Oscar McBride fell victim to an un­usually deep crop of tight ends. From big names like Kyle Brady to lesser names like Tony Cline, this class was the strongest in years. 
McBride, though, should be able to make someone's roster as a. run-block specialist. 


If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1--4543. 

COACH HOLTZ 
SPEAKS ON 
''FOOTBALL AT NOTRE DAME'' 
Tuesday, April 25 8:00p.m. at St. Edward's Hall 
Asian Culture is more than egg rolls & Karate kicks! Find out how much more! Prepare yourself for a Multicultural World! Experience another culture without ever leaving South Bend! 
Take a Class! You'll like it! 
ANTH 437 Amer Culture & 
GOVERNMENT GOVT 334 lnt'l Relations in East As1a 


RICAN STUDIES 
'T411 Ethnic Notions: Stereotypes, 
LIT\_RATURE COAT 4~ Gender Images Mod Japanese Fiction (ENGL 425 A. COST 4~ L1t. 1n Translation (ENGL 429) 

Monday April 24, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• LACROSSE 
UMass' last minute surge sparked by ball-handling 
We're Building a Solid Foundation For Tomorrow's Health Professionals. 



Introducing Masters Programs in Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy. 
At Midwestern University, we're building for the future by adding two new masters programs. Programs that provide future Physical and Occupational Therapists with a superior classroom experience as well as a unique opportunity to interact with students from other health professional disciplines. The result is a solid, well-rounded educational 
foundation that launches our students into successful, rewarding careers in the 
health professions. 

In June, Midwestern will begin classes for full-time masters programs in Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy. Preparing students with the skills necessary to perform patient screening, evaluation, education, and treatment. 
Applications are still bei11g accepted for the charter classes c~f both progtmns. 
At Midwestern, we emphasize a cooperative learning environment where students actively help one another succeed in and out of the classroom. Our distinguished faculty is dedicated to teaching and mentoring-always available for one-on-one guidance and counseling. It's this supportive, student-centered environment that our students find most helpful for achieving an outstanding health education. 
For more information about the new Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy Programs. or our programs in Osteopathic Medicine, Pharmacy, and Physician Assistant Studies, call Midwestern's Office of Admissions at 
(800) 458-6253 or write to: 
Office of Admissions Midwestern University 555 31st Street Downers Grove, IL 60515 
aMidwestern University 
Committed to the Education of Health Professionals. 
By DAVE TREACY 
Spons Writor 
"It was a game that Massachusetts needed to win. Opportunities were dwindling, and the game clock fell to under live minutes to play. The Minutemen were down 9-7 on their home field with a poten­tial NCAA birth up for grabs. 
And they won. 
In what may have been the most disappointing game of the year for the Irish. the ball-han­dling of the UMass offense snatchnd victory from the jaws of defeat at the hands of Notre Dame. 
"Obviously. this was a disap­pointing game. We had quite a few opportunities, and if we converted on one of them. we could have won the game," said attackman Handy Colley. 
Instead it was UMass who converted on scoring opportu­nities. The Minutemen lired in three consecutive goals in the fQurth quarter, with the last coming with :23 seconds left in the game. 
It was a see-saw battle throughout. Colley opened up the scoring midway through the lirst quarter on an assist from defenseman Mike Iorio, and added a second goal a minute later. UMass converted on the next three goal of the period, two of which came from the stiek of Brendan Glass. 
"Glass had a big day. and he's a good player," Colley said. "lie linished his opportunities." 
Colley opened up the second quarter with another unassist­ed goal to tie the score. After a goal by UMass. the Irish again knotted the game, with Brian Gilfillan's score assisted by Will Sutton. Glass scored the next two for the Minutemen. who took a 6-4 lead into halftime. 
The Irish came out of the break in a big way. scoring four consecutive goals in the open­ing ten minutes. The offense seemed to be coming back to the form of the two previous games. with several members of the squad getting involved in the scoring. 
Early in the half. Jason Pett narrowed the margin on Sutton's second assist of the game, which was followed by Tim Kearney's goal, assisted by Mark Pasquale. less than a minute later. 
Sutton converted next on Kevin Mahoney's dish, and Kearney continued the streak with his second goal of the peri­od off another assist by Sutton. UMass then snapped the streak on Brendan Glass' fifth goal of the afternoon. Glass' goal closed out the third with Notre Dame leading 8-7. 
Sutton scored Notre Dame's last goal four minutes into the final period from a Colley assist. Sutton finished with five points on the afternoon, and Colley ended with four. 
And then the vaunted Minutemen offense came back. 
Glass added his sixth goal with less than five minutes to play in the game. His seventh goal, which tied the score, came with 1:37 left in the game. 
Before the teams could reach an overtime period, UMass' Henry Stanziale put a shot past Irish keeper Alex Cade with :23 
-
The ObseiVer I Angela Addington 

Alex Cade and the Irish lacrosse team were unable to hold off a late UMass charge and lost 10-9. 
seconds left to play. The Irish overcame the Irish in their zone ever. coming against two Great couldn't come back. to take the game. Western Lacrosse League foes. 
In a game that was expected "They executed well. All day The Irish play at Michigan to feature a powerful offense they seemed to be in the right State this Saturday. and linish and a dominant defense. UMass place at the right time," Colley off their regular season at Ohio found a way to win. The Irish explained. State on May 6th. The winner defense, the squad's mainstay The loss, while it may knock of the GWLL automatically all season, dissipated in the the Irish down a few spots in receives an NCAA bid. The final five minutes. The ball­the polls, does not really affect Irish have received this bid for movement capabilities of the their chances for a tournament the last three years, and need Massachusetts squad, the focus berth. The next two games to do so agllin to if they hope to of the Irish defense all week. they play are imperative, how-reaeh the tournament. 
Midwestern University maintains non-discriminatory admission policies and considers for admission all qualified students regardless of race, color, sex. religion. national or ethnic origin. handicap. or status as veteran. 

~-----------~-----~------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 24, 1995 
No.I 
continued from page 20 
sidered. 
My team, Oranjeboom {which for the uncultured is a Dutch beer, and if I may take the lib­erty, a mascot that inspires more devotion than the inane television show that was our c_pmpetition's namesake), is a group of ultra-competitive, fairly skilled basketball play­ers. We thought we could do some damage this year, given a decent draw. Playing Models INC. is not a decent draw. 
Still, hope springs eternal, and we entered the contest hoping to pull of one of those legendary Bookstore upsets, to win one for frustrated athletes all over campus. 
We discovered that it's a dif­ferent game that is played by the elite Bookstore seeds. We played hard, we were competi­tive, and we never came close to winning. 
My lasting memory from the game is trying to rebound and looking up to see dozens of arms playing volleyball above the rim. None of those arms belonged to my teammates. 
·Since you can't beat them that way, the only option is to foul them. Certainly a strategy adopted by many under­manned Bookstore teams over the years, but never one that endears you to your opponents. 
"You guys are the biggest 


Seeds 
continued from page 20 
against Talk to Me After Class in front of a large crowd. NBT II captured the win 21-16 behind Brad Fish and Joe Haigh's contributions. 
"It was a fun game to play," said NBT II's Haigh. "It had the feel of a thirty two or even a sixteen game because they had some great players that created a lot of good matchups." 
Brian Hamilton, playing in the absence of Thomas Knight, caused problems inside for NBT II, while Lee Becton and Matt Jennings hassled Haigh and point guard Ton Rinehart all night. 
"The upsets illustrate how many good teams there are in this tournament," added Haigh. "A lot of teams could have been seeded." 
bunch of cheaters I've ever played against," stated varsity basketball player Jason Williams after the game. 
Actually, to be technical, fouling is strategy, not cheat­ing. Mr. Williams will be a bet­ter Bookstore player {and after lighting us up for 12, he does­n't have far to go) when he re­alizes that this isn't Division I. We weren't fouling out of mal­ice, we were just too slow to play better defense, so reverted to the playground variety. 
What is the way to compete with a top team? We tried nu­merous strategies, but after the fouling approach failed, not much else was going to help. 
There was the attempt at psychological warfare. We actually took this one and ran with it, getting a hold of Williams' varsity jersey. We unveiled it at a strategic moment, hoping that he would be devastated, or amused, or something, anything. 
Instead, our efforts were only rewarded by a shake of the head. The man who gave us a running commentary on his performance throughout the game couldn't muster a re­sponse at the best moment. Perhaps the most tragic part of the game. At least the crowd was appreciative. 
The crowd, in fact, was an­other potential weapon to fall back on. When you play a seed, no matter who you are, you draw a crowd, and one that is partisan to the under-

London  $U9  
Paris  $U9  
Frankfurt  $~  
Madrid  $319  
TokyoRome  $440 $3g9  

fll"~."f"..=:Jy~~n"~rn:J.?cf."3 ~ 
f::'es subject to chons• ond/or ovalloblllty 
~-­
1•800•KOUNCIL 
1•800•221b•I~M!4
-



tR~d, 

MEXICAN FOOD 
115 Dixieway North (U.S. 31&33) • Roseland, IN 46637 

NOW OPEN 

Serving the best Mexican food in Michiana. Everything made from scratch! 
Hours: Mon.-Fri. 11:00-9:00 Sat. 4:00-10:00 
Dine In -Carry Out 



273-1500 

rGraiili OpenlnisPeclU1sl 
1. Taco Dinner l2. Burrito Dinner (all dinners served w/ rice and beans) I 
p. Enchilada Dinner I 1 All Dinner Specials • Dine-In or Carry Out 1 
L__~~~~N~ ;!~:_c~~~~ _ J 
dog. 
Models was expected to score, early and often. When we managed a bucket, a steal, a rebound, or even not to get dunked on or injured, it was greeted with a roar of approval. 
The last resort, of course, was trash talking. Even the most mild-mannered players feel compelled to talk smack against better opponents. espe­cially varsity athletes. 
However, it seems that being able to talk the game is requi­site among the best teams. and Models could boast both Williams and football player Tracy Graham, a duo who were as unstoppable with their mouths as they were with their jumpshots. 
A sample. After telling us that we had been fouling him every possession, Williams then exclaimed, "Me ... you've got to come out and guard me," after burying a jumper over my out­stretched arm. Sort of a damned-if-you-do, damned-if­you-don't situation. 

The best we could muster in reply was a meager. "Why are you guys calling everything?" The poor man's version. 
In the end, talent prevailed, as it should. There are only so many times that people can jump over you before you real­ize that you are overmatched. Models is one of the few teams in contention to win it all, and they proved it against us. 
Still, the experience of play­ing a top seed will remain one of my best Bookstore memo­ries. The underdog is an enjoyable, if often fruitless. role to play. Next year. though. I could live with a third round game against 60" of Vertical. 

Celelbrate a frienJ9s lbirthJay with a very special Olbserwer aJo 
Start Your 





Career in Sales! 
Business-to-business inside sales offers lop compensation and opportunities. As a leader in the telecommunications industry, we are dedicated to complete customer and ~mployee satisfaction. Join a team of professionals. Earn loR dollars and benetits, plus get the training and experience you need to succeeO. 
We have immediate opportunities in inside sales to business accounts. 
We are looking for individuals who: Possess a background in sales Have strong veibal communications and phone skills Are gool onented and have a strong des1re to succeed 
We offer: Generou~ commission plan+ base salary starting at $18,000 Unlimited earning p,otentialExcellent medical/aental/life/disability coverage and 401 Ksavings P,lon Tremendous advancement opportunities Paid trainingThe most competitive products in the industryAprofessional, relaxed atmosphere 
We're readv tc;> provide full salary and training for committed, motivated individuals. Join our team which is dedicated to leadership and all its rewords. Visit our office to complete on application. Or;.send your resume to: Human Resource~, First Notional Services Corporation 801 tast 122nd Street, Carmel, IN 46032or lox to: 317/581-4050. 
l\,FNSC
An Equal Opporlunity Employer. 

FirSt Natiorwl Seroin!s Corporation 


JUNIORS JUNIORS JUNIORS 
APRIL 26--APRIL 26--APRIL 26 
WEDNESDAY 
\ 
I 

~~· 

Senior 


One night only!! Become a member of the Alumni-Senior Club Pay $10 now and no cover for a year!! Come out and have a good time 
r-~------------------------------------~----------­
page 17

Monday April 24, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS 
• BASEBALL 



Sluggers finish sluggishly after blowout of UIC 
By MEGAN McGRATH so thoroughly, one could un­for a lot of first-pitch strikes," Spons Writer derstand why the Irish could the freshman said. "Later I overlook the Flames. could get my fastball in on their 
In the sports world, you're Saturday sophomore Gregg hands. Stavisky received remembered for what you did llenebry keyed the Irish effort, tremendous defense from cen­in your last game. 
tossing a complete game shut­terfielder Richards. With two This being true. the Notre out. He allowed three hits and outs in the third, Stavisky Dame baseball team's 6-4 ex­struck out six. 
allowed two hits to put runners tnl-innings loss to Illinois­"I was changing speeds a lot at second and third. A diving catch by Richards ended the
Chicago in their last weekend and keeping their hitters off­
game made the five wins the balance," Henebry (3-1) said. inning, and Stavisky would not Irish earned this weekend seem Henebry received offensive allow a hit the rest of the way. a little Jess significant. support from Ryan Topham and "Ro made a big play and from 
The Irish swept Indianapolis George Hestovich, who blasted that point on I had a lot of' con­Friday, edging the Greyhounds home runs for the Irish. fidence," Stavisky said. "Our 
4-3 and 3-2. Saturday they Handall Brooks went 2-4 and defense has been playing great claimed another twin bill vic­drove in two runs. 
and the guys up the middle are 

tory, handling UIC 6-0 and 10-In game two, the pitching playing with a lot of confidence. 3, and in the first game Sunday stafT again doused the Flames. It makes pitching so much eas­Notre Dame ran their winning Sophomore Wally Widelski ier." streak to 11 games, crushing earned a win in his first start, On Sunday the big blows the Flames 11-0. lasting six innings and allowing came in the second for the 
four hits and no earned runs. Irish, as Brooks laced a triple

But for the fourth time this season, the Irish responded to a Wideiski was buoyed by a six­and Craig DeSensi slammed a 
homer in a four running inning. 

blow-out win with a let-down. run explosion in the third, 
The last time Notre Dame started by Restovich's second Ryan Topham had a three-run (31-13, 9-2) lost was April12 at long-ball of the day. The Irish double in the fourth and anoth­Purdue. The day before they then loaded the bases and Craig er HBI two-bagger in the sixth pounded Illinois 15-4. April 7 DeSensi laced a two-run single. to give him four RBI for the 
the Irish followed a 17-8 A walk to Scott Sollmann game. a double and scored on a single to load the bases with no 
reloaded the bags for sopho­In the last game, the pitching

thrashing of Bowling Green Sollmann double. Topham sin­outs. with a 10-6 loss to Wisconsin­more Mike Amrhein, who blast­stafT was less than solid. gled home Sollmann to give The Flames took the lead 
Milwaukee. ed a three-run single. Starter Larry Mohs lasted just Notre Dame a 4-3 lead. when Bill Overbeck grounded "We have to learn that each Rowan Richards hit his fourth two innings, allowing three But reliever Tim Kraus could into a double-play, scoring Jody game is a new game, and has homer of the year in the fourth. runs on three hits. Relievers not protect the lead, allowing Brown. John Kravarick singled
Freshman Dan Stavisky con­Justin Gleichowski and Mike

nothing to do with the game the tying run to score in the top to score Carmen Carcone for 
Balicki allowed no runs in their

before," head coach Paul tinued the Notre Dame pitching of the eighth. Normally the ace the final margin. Mainieri said. "We need to staff's success on Sunday. five innings of work, and the of the Irish staff with a 3-0 "We didn't pitch very well in learn not to take things for Stavisky went the distance in a Irish were able to come back on record, three saves and an ERA the second game," Mainieri granted." seven-inning alTair, shutting out the Flames. under two, Kraus walked the said. "Larry Mohs struggled 
But after dominating the first the Flames on just four hits. Trailing 3-2 in the bottom of first two batters in faced in the and Kraus didn't get the job 
three games of the MCC series "I was able to throw a curve the seventh, Brooks reached on tenth. Dan Darrah rapped a done for us." 
CQ!.!B.SES CAPP 315 01 1012 HESB 491 01 3221 PSY 342 02 1839 CANCELLED CAPP 331 01 0579 HIST 311A 01 3228 PSY 355 01 0530 CAPP 361 01 1013 HIST 312 01 4153 PSY 357 01 2411 AFAM 371 01 3045 CAPP 368 01 0540 H1ST 326A01 3622 PSY 359 01 3919 AMST 366H 01 3044 CAPP 380 01 2533 HIST 353 01 3626 PSY 401 01 3922 ARST 309S 01 3515 CAPP 395 01 2530 HJST 353A 01 3627 PSY 423 01 3923

D A R T 

EE 498F 01 2893 CE 331 01 1017 HIST 401 01 3237 PSY 454 01 0648 ENGL 300M 01 3536 CE 331 02 4257 HIST 414 01 4164 PSY 455 01 3924 ENGL 696 01 4369 CHEG 355T 02 2905 HJST 414A01 4165 PSY 462 01 2330 FIN 380 02 1281 CHEG 459 02 1039 HIST 455A01 3642 PSY 488B 01 4005 GSC 300M 01 3587 CHEM 201 01 0291 HJST 456AO! 3247 RLST 235 44 9544 
CO!.!B.SES ADDED 

HIST 371 01 3042 CHEM 201 02 0510 HIST 458 01 3078 RLST 242 58 9558 HIST 371A 01 3043 CHEM 201 04 1062 HJST 458A01 3080 RLST 393 68 9568 ANTH 498 02 #4431 -Anthropology Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.; Susan Sheridan; Permission Re~red 
HJST 385 01 4156 CHEM 321L 02 3939 HIST 461A 01 3644 ROFR 371 01 2971 ARCH 563 01 #4427 -Teaching Concepts/Bldg. Tech ..; 3 cr. hrs.; Michael Lykoudis; TH 02:45-04: 
HIST 385A 01 4157 coer 207 01 4128 HIST 466 01 4170 ROFR 413 01 3807 CHEM 535 01 #4435 -Medical Chemistry; 3 cr. hrs.; M 12:15-01:30; also meets T 08:00.09:15 
HIST 423 01 4166 COCT 425 01 3915 HIST 474A 01 2979 ROSP 103 06 1949 EE 468L 02 #4415 -Modem Phontonics Lab.; 0.0 cr. hrs.; F 01:00-03:30; EE 468 Corequisite 
HIST 423A 01 4167 COMM 103 03 9703 HIST 495 16 4172 ROSP 328 01 1961 EE 499R 24 114416 -Undergraduate Research; var. cr. hrs.; Gregory Snider 
LAW 592A 01 0197 COMM 103 05 9705 HIST 495 58 4173 ROSP 328 02 0133 EE 699R 25 #4417-Research & Dissertation; var. cr. hrs.; Grego~ Snider 
LAW 645 01 2283 COMM 103 07 9707 liPS 241 02 3205 soc 220 01 1978 ENGL 699 39 #4426 -Research & Dissertation; var. cr. hrs.; James obinson 
COTH 285S 02 3521 liPS 320 01 2133 soc 300 01 0521 GOVT 499R 02 #4421 -Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.; Scott Mainwaring; Permission Required 
CLQSJ;D SECIIQNS COTH 310 01 4084 liPS 410 01 4068 soc 303 01 3065 GOVT 499R 03 #4420 -Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.; Edward Goerner; Permission Required 
AS QE 11 A.M. i1:Zil2:i COTH 435AOI 3525 liPS 422 01 3763 soc 332 01 2947 GOVT 499R 04 #4419 -Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs.; Donald Kommers; Permission Required 
COTH 436I 01 3526 liPS 561 01 4072 soc 370 01 2037 GOVT 499R 05 #4429 -Senior Honors Thesis; var. cr. hrs; A. James McAdams; Permission ~uired 
ACCT 371 01 0825 COTH 440 01 2946 LAW 506 02 1383 soc 430 01 3158 MGT 350 02 #4428 -File Processing Languages; 3 cr. hrs.; Khalil Matta; MW 02:20-03:35; anagement 
ACCT 371 03 0827 COTH 480 01 2138 LAW 591A 01 0711 soc 441 01 3831 M~ors or Math Seniors only 
ACCT 371 04 0824 CSE 332 01 2901 LAW 601 01 1398 soc 448 01 3832 PHIL 201 16 #4418 -Introduction to Philosophy; cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00 
ACCT 372 02 0545 CSE 332L 01 0840 LAW 631A 01 1412 THEO 200 02 2116 STV 270 01 #4432 -Religious Ethics & Envtronment; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 01:15-02:30; Permission Required; 
ACCT 380 01 0830 CSE 332L 04 0451 LAW 631B 01 1413 THEO 200 04 4226 cross-listed with THEO 270.01 
ACCT 380 02 2879 CSE 413 01 0491 LAW 631C 01 1414 THEO 242 01 3969 STV 270 01 #4433 -Religious Ethics & Environment; 3 cr. hrs.; TH 02:45-04:00; Permission Requried; 
ACCT 380 03 3428 ECON 225T 07 4034 LAW 63ID01 1415 THEO 243 01 0288 cross-listed with THEO 270.02 
ACCT 380 04 3429 ECON 303 01 1122 LAW 633 01 2990 THEO 243T 01 2320 STV 446 01 #4414 -Theology and Medicine; cr. hrs.; MW 11:15-12:30; Permission Required; 
ACCT 475 01 2932 ECON 315 01 4055 LAW 679 01 3046 THEO 243T 02 2319 Crosslist THEO 446-01 
ACCT 475 02 0603 ECON 410 01 4056 LAW 695 01 4106 THEO 250 01 0757 THEO 565 01 114422 -Litur~ca~ Th~ology; 3 cr.. hrs.; T~ 02:4.5-04:00 
ACCT 476 03 3133 ECON 421 01 2604 LAW 695 02 1420 THEO 260 02 3972 THEO 601 01 #4430 -CJA mmar, var. cr. hrs., W 02.45-05.15 
AERO 450 01 2925 ECON 422 01 2603 LAW 695 03 1421 THEO 261 01 3318 THEO 610A 01 #4423 -Advanced Greek; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 11:15-12:30 
AFAM 329 01 3063 ECON 484 01 3032 LAW 695 04 1422 THEO 264 OJ 3085 AFAM 359 01 3461 ECON 485 01 2136 LAW 695 05 1423 THEO 265 01 0779 AFAM 384E 01 3462 EE 222T 01 1135 MARK 350 01 1431 THEO 266 02 0778 AFAM 425 01 3108 EE 344T 02 1148 MARK 350 02 1432 THEO 270 01 3974 
CHANGES 

AFAM 455 01 3463 EE 430 01 4264 MARK 370 01 1433 THEO 270 02 3975 AFAM 494 01 3466 ENGL 200 02 3533 MARK 370 02 1434 THEO 283 01 3324 AME 561 01 #0372 -Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05 
AMST 314G 01 3876 ENGL 200 03 3534 MARK 384 01 1436 THEO 287 01 2377 ANTH 359 OI 113488 -Remove "Majors only" restriction 
AMST 319E 02 3470 ENGL 301 01 3537 MARK 476 01 1437 THEO 290B 01 3977 ANTH 410 01 #3092 -Remove "Majors only, minors by exemption" restriction 
AMST 354H01 3873 ENGL 311 02 0610 MARK 476 02 1438 THEO 290C 01 3978 ANTH 448 01 113496 -Change restnction to: "Majors only, minors by exemption through 2nd period; 
AMST 367H01 3471 ENGL 316G 01 3102 MATH 102 01 0466 THEO 405 01 3979 then open to all" 
AMST 368H01 3079 ENGL 319A 01 2937 MATH 325 01 1488 THTR 276 54 9754 ANTH 457 01 113497 -Change restriction to: "Majors only, minors by exemption through 1st period; 
AMST 387H01 2978 ENGL 319A 02 2939 MATH 325 03 0618 THTR 276 56 9756 then of:Jen to all" 
AMST 398E 01 3474 ENGL 320 01 3540 MATH 325 04 0617 ARST 325S 01 112935 -Change meeting days/time to: W 09:00-12:00 
AMST 409E 01 3476 ENGL 334 01 3541 ME 331L 01 0380 ARST 425S 01 112934 -Change meeting days/time to: MW 09:00-12:00 
AMST 456H01 3246 ENGL 390C 01 4132 ME 331L 02 0379 ARST 525S 01 112936 -Chanfte meeting days/time to: MW 09:00-12:00 
AMST 457 01 3478 ENGL 392B 01 3546 ME 331L 04 0377 BIOS 250 01 112849 -Add unior Bios/Bio-chemistry majkrs to the restrictions 
AMST 478H01 3480 ENGL 409 01 2567 ME 339T 02 2923 CLASSES IHAI ~ILL BIOS 417 01 110969 -Change restriction to: "College of ience only through 3rd period; then open to 
AMST 522 01 3483 ENGL 415B 01 3549 MGT 411 01 0606 REQfEN AI Z;lll! f.M. all" 
ANTH 310 01 3486 ENGL 416 01 4080 MI 334 01 3765 iLW2S CE 445 01 111020 -Change time to: TH 09:30-J0:45 
ANTH 328 OJ 2975 ENGL 4J6F OJ 408J MI 486 01 3776 CHEM 103 01 114108 -Change djfi/time to: TH 01:15-02:30 
ANTH 329 01 3061 ENGL 422 01 3555 MI 525 01 3780 ACCT 371 01 0825 CHEM 247 01 111068 -Remove" lOS 155 or 201 pre/corequisite" 
ANTH 382 01 3491 ENGL 427E 01 3556 MUS 220 01 2456 ACCT 380 01 0830 COTH 221 01 111097 -Chan!le to: "Permission Required" 
ANTH 389 01 3493 ENGL 428C 01 2561 MUS 221 OJ 1990 ACCT 380 04 3429 COTH 361 01 111099 -Apphcation deadline extended to April 20th and Change to: #Permission 
ANTH 390 01 3153 ENGL 467B 01 3564 MUS 226 01 1574 BA 363 01 0950 Required" 
ANTH 431 01 3495 ENGL 469 01 3566 PHIL 201 04 1644 BA 363 06 0261 COTH 421 01 112356 -Change to: "Permission Required" 
ARCH 443 03 0128 ENGL 492 01 3571 PHIL 222 01 0649 BA 392 04 2350 EE 468 01 1134I8 -Add corequisite: "EE 468L core~uisite" 
ARCH 543 01 0889 ENGL 494 01 3572 PHIL 232 01 3940 BIOS 304L 03 2239 EE 468L 01 113419 -Change dayI time to: W 01 :00-Q :30; add corequisite: "EE 468 corequisite" 
ARCH 543 03 0721 ENGL 495A 01 3573 PHIL 239 01 4208 CHEG 355T 02 2905 ENGL 559A 01 #3584 -Change day/time to: T 07:30-10:00 -P.M. Class 
ARCH 543 04 2731 ENGL 496A 01 3575 PHIL 239 02 4209 ENGL 200 02 3533 
• 

ENGL 586 01 #3582 -Change dayI time to: H 02:45-05:30 
ARCH 565 01 2756 ENGL 496E 01 3576 PHIL 242 01 2261 ENGL 200 03 3534 FIN 476 01 110600 -Change prerequisite to: "FIN 231" only 
ARHI 169 01 0890 FIN 231 02 0601 PHIL 243 01 3941 ENGL 311 02 0610 GOVT 141 01 #0449 -Change time to: MWF 10:10-11:00 
BA 362 01 0949 FIN 347 01 2872 PHIL 246 01 1652 ENGL 428C01 2561 HESB 450 01 110558 -Change day/time to: TH 11:00-12:15 
BA 363 01 0950 FIN 347 02 2871 PHIL 247 01 3283 ENGL 494 01 3572 LAW 506 01 111382 -Change day/time to: MW 01:00-02:15 
BA 363 02 1151 FIN 360 02 1268 PHIL 248 01 3942 FIN 231 02 0601 LAW 569 01 111395 -Remove Permission Re~uired 
BA 363 04 0951 FIN 360 03 1269 PHIL 254 01 3943 FIN 360 04 1270 LAW 611 01 111405 -Chan~e time to: TH 09: 0-10:45 
BA 363 05 0952 FIN 360 04 1270 PHIL 256 01 3944 FIN 360 06 3431 LAW 642 01 #2284 -Add AW 505 and 506 as a prerequisite 
BA 363 06 0261 FIN 360 05 1271 PHIL 261 01 1653 FIN 361 02 1273 LAW 679 01 113046 -Remove Permission Required 
BA 391 01 0805 FIN 360 06 3431 PHIL 261 02 0531 GSC 332 01 2948 LAW 683 01 112281 -Add LAW 603 as a prerr62isite 
BA 391 02 0716 FIN 361 01 1272 PHIL 261 03 3945 HIST 414 01 4164 LAW 686 01 114103 -Change day/time to: H :DO-o3:40 
BA 392 01 2353 FIN 361 02 1273 PHIL 264 01 3946 HIST 414A 01 4165 LAW 689 OI 114273 -ChanEe credit hours to: 2.0 
BA 392 02 2352 FIN 361 03 1276 PHIL 264 02 3947 LAW 59! A 01 0711 LAW 695 all sections -Add A W 604 as a prereduisite 
BA 392 04 2350 FIN 361 05 2877 PHIL 264 03 4099 MARK 350 01 1431 LAW 695 01 114106 -Change day/time to: M 7:00-10:00 P.M. Class & H 03:30-05:00 
BA 490 01 0954 FIN 370 01 1277 PHIL 269 01 2452 ME 331L 02 0379 ME 339 01 111531 -Change time to: MWF 11:15-12:05 
BA 490 02 0953 FIN 380 04 2875 PHIL 518 01 3803 PHIL 242 01 2261 MGT 350 01 111550 -Change day/time to: MW 12:50-02:05; add Math Seniors as a restriction 
BA 490 03 0956 FIN 460 03 3434 PHYS 221L 02 1681 PHIL 254 01 3943 PHIL 649 01 1#3964 -Chan,fe day/time to: W 02:20-04:50 
BIOS 304L 02 0965 FIN 470 01 1284 PHYS 221L 04 2764 PHIL 264 02 3947 soc 242 01/02 113081/3083-dd restriction: "Sokhomores only" 
BIOS 304L 03 2239 FIN 473 01 1285 PHYS 221L 05 1682 PHYS 221L 04 2764 THEO 290B 01 #3977 -Change restriction to: "T EO 100, 200 or 201" prerequisite 
BIOS 344L 01 0967 GOVT 243T 05 2510 PHYS 421 01 0616 PSY 357 01 2411 THEO 290C 01 113978 -Change restriction to: "THEO 100, 200 or 201" prerequisite 
BIOS 401L 02 2836 GOVT 325 01 3160 PLS 381 03 1790 THEO 260 02 3972 THEO 243T 03 #2318 -Change time to: T 02:15.03:30 
BIOS 420L 01 2827 GOVT 491G 01 0484 PLS 443 02 2420 THEO 261 01 3318 THEO 243T 04 112317 -Change time to: T 03:45.05:00 
BIOS 420L 02 2826 GOVT 491M01 3896 PLS 481 02 0785 THEO 265 01 0779 THEO 578B 01 113987 -Change credit hours to: 0.5 
CAPP 216 01 2536 GSC 243 01 3997 PSY 211A01 1796 CAPP 303 01 3064 GSC 332 01 2948 PSY 342 01 1798 

,...------~---~----~--~ 
------------~----------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 24, 1995 
• SOFTBAll 
Irish battle past injuries in sweeping twin bills 
BY NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
There was no question that the Notre Dame softball team \\.:as hurting last weekend. But fortunately for the Irish, it was the other team that got hurt as No. 21 ranked Notre Dame im­proved its record to 31-13 (11-2 in the MCC) by steamrolling past LaSalle and Cleveland State in a pair of doublehead­ers. 
The Irish hammered LaSalle in two Friday games, 8-0 and 3­0 respectively, while topping MCC-leading Cleveland State 2­0 and 10-4 on Saturday. 
Before Friday's games, Notre Dame faced a lot of questions about its pitching. Both start­ing hurlers, Terri Kobata and Joy Battersby were hurting. Battersby was fighting an ailing back while Kobata had a trou­blesome hip. However, when the games started on Friday these injuries were not appar­ent. 
Kobata was her usual deadly self against LaSalle. She struck out eleven batters over five in­nings and allowed only three hits. 
Leading 4-0 going into the sixth, the Irish finished off the Explorers early by ripping out four more runs, and invoking the mercy rule earning them­selves an 8-0 win. Jennifer Giampaolo was 3 for 3 and scored three runs and Sara Hayes was 3-3 with 2 RBis and a pair of doubles. 
With Joy Battersby on the 
Giampaolo single. 
Notre Dame improved on their 1-0 in the fifth inning. Michelle Cline scored on Jenna Knudson's triple and Knudson was driven in by Katie Marten's single up the middle. 
MCC leading Cleveland State provided a lot more opposition on Sunday. 
Notre Dame nipped the Vikings 2-0 in the first contest. 
Kobata was even more domi­nating than the day before. She took a no-hit bid all the way to the last batter, until it was bro­ken up by Shannon Johnson's bloop single in the top of the seventh. Still, there's not a lot of fault you can find in a one­hit, 12 strikeout complete game performance from a pitcher battling an ornery hip. 
"Terri threw well in game one," Coach Liz Miller said. 'The weather was better than anticipated. With the sun out, it helped her hip. When it's cold then it tightens up." 
In the Notre Dame fourth, Sara Hayes led off with a triple and scored on Meghan Murray's sacrifice fly, giving the Irish their 2-0 victory. 
The second bill of the double­don't stay focused and intense. When things happen we don't react to them. We have to get better." 

Notre Dame brought Kobata out of the bullpen to relieve Nichols, and she shut down Cleveland State, firing three shutout innings. 
After failing to convert on scoring opportunities in the seventh and eighth innings, the Irish finally broke the 4-4 stale­mate in the ninth by exploding for six runs on five hits. The highlight was Katie Marten's inside the park home run that scored Liz Goetz. 
"She's been ripping the cover off the ball," Miller said of Marten. "Because of her speed she can turn a routine ground ball into a hit. You'd look at her and think she isn't fast. She's been on base for us like you want your lead off batter to be." 
Kobata bore down in the bot­tom of the inning and preserved the 10-4 victory. It was her second victory of the day, improving her record to 16-2. 
Giampaolo was 5-6 with three runs scored. Katie Marten went 6-8 on the day. 


• 

Monday, April 24, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
T\-1\'5 1'\t:W IS51JE Or CHEWING­Mt>-Gf>-1..\!{'C TELL<:, \-\OW Ttl 
58 UP f:>.. Ml\t'-lDIB\lLAR F\Tl-I~'S'S R£.GI\<\E. r 
DILBERT 
I PROI"\lSE THAI IF I 0"' 0 
DECIDE. TO BUY YOUR COMPANY I'LL GLADLY RECOI"'\MEND A POSITION FOP-EA.C\-1 Of 
YOU. 
BILL WATTERSON 
IT'S  1\ Gl<\l't:.L\\'-\G \'\ORKO'JT,  rM SIJR£. \\it..  PLIJS, XOIJ  
BIJ\ ~OJ 15\l\L\) SIR.t.NG\1-\ ANIJ rul)\lRf\1-\CE , SJ ~0\.J CAl'\ COIJI'C 1\\~1-\ 11'-1 f>­ GlOR~ 1-\r--Kt.S \T f:>..LL 'NOR\\-1\'\1\\LE.  \:l't:.\JRO~ nit>-T "c\-\t.'l'll:.l<'s Jl\.,'tl" lt111-T 1)\(\'IES  
C\..\~C\\1:.1<.  lt1£. G\I<L'S  
\'\1\..D.  

SCOTT ADAMS 
u 
~ 
NOI BUT ILL REALLY? YOU'D 
~ 
RECOMT'\END MAKE SUREWE 
ALL GOT JOBS7 
\ 
.. 

: 
Q 
~llL~~~UL--~~~~M 
L-------------------~~L-------------------~ 
47 --Marie Saint 57 Plenty, old-style 48 Anna who 59 Fender bender 
played Nana memento 52 Comes in last &O Ill at-­53 Netting 61 Fr. holy women 54 Pretentious 63 Dander 56 It means 65 Prince Valiant's 
nothing to Julio son 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

Hugh tries out his new Swiss Army Golf Clubs .. 
• OF INTEREST 
·=:'':::!:~;:.
<'K.hleen Norris, author of the best seller Dakota, will bti giv~ng ~ presentation of readings and poems. ~·r.ropheey and Revelation: A Poet's View," at 7:30 P.M. 


Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds 
SOUTH DINING HALL Turkey Whipped Potatoes Bread Stuffing 
55 "Masque of Alfred" composer 
58 Eats away. as soil &2"... --saw 
Elba" &4 Kid's bike part 66 Polaris, e.g. &7 Scent &&Crowded &9 Fictional Mr. 70 Exhibit boredom 71 Mr. Kefauver 
DOWN 
1 Towel (off) 2 Corrida cheers 3Jump 4Prima-­
evidence 5 Level of command &Couples' 
transportation? 7 Good: Fr. a Fencer's blade 9 Urban housing 
10 End-high note 
11 Receptacles 
12 "A Death in the Family" writer James 
13 Burg 18 River through 
Flanders 22 Legal matter 25 Printed cloth 
27 Shorthand taker 28 Gossipy Hopper 
29ln position, as a sail 30--Bay, Brooklyn 32 Unusual 33 Sweet treat 34 Afro-Cuban drum 35 Anne of fashion 37 Usher's route 41 Fledgling entrepreneur 45 Message in mime 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Writer Tom or Thomas 
8 Help in crime 10 One--(form of baseball) 
14 Of the lower intestine 15 Ready for picking 18 Canceled, as a launch 11 Neato 19 One more time 20Giimpses 21 ----do-well 23 Referee's count 24 Household power: Abbr. 28 Phoenix neighbor 
28 ---been 31 Cuticle shaper 36 Patriot Allen 38 "Crazy" bird 39 Hydroxyl 
compound 40 Eins + zwei 41 Court center, 
usually 42 Hawaii's state 
bird 43 Loses all power 44 Did better than 
aB 45Welsh dog 48 Curry favor with 49--Diego 5o Golfer 
Ballesteros 51 List ender 53 ---jongg 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.:.;+::..e..~~ 1-:'+:=+=-1~ ~~~.......:::--. ~-+'-+'-I 
....,-.+--'--+-:-<~-:-1 

Are you graduating and want to get rid of college items? Are you moving off campus and need extra furniture? Are you looking for additional supplies to fill your dorm room? 
BE A PART OF THE RUMMAGE SALE!!! SELLOR BUY 
LOFTS, SOh\S, APPUANCES, FURNITURE. CARPETS, AND MISCELLANEOUS HOUSEHOLD WARE 




RUMMAGE SALE 
STEPAN CENTER· DROP OFF : APRIL 29 SALE : APRIL 30 
$1 from each sale made as well as all items not sold will be donated to a charitable organization to be named later. 


~--~-----~-~~-r----~----·------------~~----~.----.---.----------------~----------------­


SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, April 24, 1995 
• NFL DRAFT 

Topsy-Turvy 
"All the personnel people IIrish prospects talked to said he wasn't quick enough to be a corner. He isexperience highs big, but a little stiff in the hips. Then again, you say, 'howand lows in draft 'bout a safety?' At 6-foot-2, he 
wasn't quite tough enough." 
By TIM SHERMAN 
The other potential first­
Associate Sports Editor 
round pick for the Irish was fullback Ray Zellars. An
The NFL Draft, usually a 
injury-plagued senior cam­
market that is cornered by 
paign caught up with Zellars
Notre Dame seniors, has 
though, as he wasn't grabbed
always been known for its 
until pick 44 by New Orleans. 
slips, surprises, and shocks. 
This was the first time since

... For the Irish class of 1995, 
1991 that the Irish have failed
the traditional topsy-turvy na­
to produce a first round selec­
ture of the annual New York 
tion.
football fest was very much in 
Teams may regret that fact
effect. Those projected in the 
with Zellars. 
first round fell faster than 
"Zellars could be a steal at
1994's national championships 
pick 44," Theisman appraised. 
hopes, while the forgotten 
The inability to play at full­
found their way onto an ex­
speed was also the downfall of
panded draft board. 
tailback Lee Becton. The shifty 
Easily the biggest story for 
Becton, who sparkled as a ju­
Notre Dame followers to come 
nior but missed substantial ac­
out of the Big Apple was the 
tion this season, went un­
descent of cornerback Bobby 
drafted and will be looking to
Taylor from, what many pro­
latch on with somebody as a
jected, a top twelve pick all the 
free agent.
way down to the 50th selection 
Their were positives for more
(18th pick of the 2nd round by 
than a few graduating Irish. 
Philadelphia). The junior who 
Defensive lineman Oliver
declared himself eligible for the 
Gibson, who finally began to
draft after a less-than stellar 
realize his vast potential this
season gambled that his ath­
season, showed something to
letic ability would compensate 
the Pittsburgh Steelers. The
fpr his subpar tackling and in­
AFC finalist selected Gibson in
tensity. He lost. "Bobby Taylor was a tween­er," said ESPN's Joe Theisman . see DRAFTI page 14 


The Observer I Jake Peters Former Irish cornerback Bobby Taylor experienced a disappointing draft as he dropped all the way down to the 50th selection after foregoing his last season of eligibility. 
Most Selections by school: 
J.-tla.£.11 Selections 
Colorado 10 Florida State 1 0 Ohio State 8 Wisconsin 7 Miami 7 Nebraska 7 
Notre Dame 5 

Irish Draft Picks 
Name, Position limU1I 
Ray Zellars, FB N.O. 2 (12) Bobby Taylor, DB Phiii 2 (18) Oliver Gibson, NG Pitt 4 (22) Mike Miller, WR Cleve 5 (13) Travis Davis, S N. 0. 7 (34) 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBAlL 

Three seeds fall as early pressure mounts 
By DOMINIC AMOROSA 
Sports Writer 
In Bookstore Basketball, ranked teams carry a stigma and a little extra pressure to win early games. Students get fired up to play against stiff competition and hope to pull off the occasional upset. When bas­ketball action ended at 11:00 PM Sunday night, three ranked teams had fallen, including two teams that started the tourna­ment among the top sixteen. 
Even the top seeds struggled a$ainst a strong field of com­petitors as upstart teams cre­ated problems up and down the random draw. 
Your Mamma's knocked off no. 15 seed Duh Plimpton's 24­22 after falling behind 11-5 at halftime. Chris Carrigan's 12 

-
points fueled the upset. 
"They hit a lot of good shots and managed to hang around long enough to beat us," said Duh Plimpton captain Todd Leahy. "They were inspired and we let down a little." 
"Teams step up to play against the seeded teams," con­tinued Leahy. "If a team stays close, the seed becomes less significant and anything can 

.... Monday, April 24 

Third round Bookstore Basketball action continues. 
happen." 
"We've ·played against seeds 
in the past and we were not in­
timidated," explained Your 
Mamma's Joe Zirnhelt. "They 
were good, but we stepped up 
our defense and got hot late in 
the game." 
Shabadoo found out what can 
happen to a returning sweet 16 
teams in a tough draw when 
they were beaten 22-20 on 
Saturday by Little Brown Shoe. 
Brown Shoe, captained by 
Dominic Carrerra, could do well 
in the tournament according to 
Joey Jo's Pat Carlevato. "They 
were an excellent team," 
Carlevato said. "It was exciting 
to get a good seed, but it's dis­
appointing to think that maybe 
we could have competed a little 
longer in the tournament." 
In the second sixteen, Desire 
crushed no. 26 Clockwork . Orange 21-9 as Clockwork 
played without three regular 
players. Ryan Walker led a bal­
anced Desire attack from his 
point guard position. · . 
As the weekend drew to a 
close on Sunday night, No. 3 
seed NBT II went head to head 
see SEEDS/ page 16 
Tuesday, April25 ND Baseball vs. Alabama 7:00 ND Women's Tennis vs. Western Michigan 3:30 SMC Softball at Kalamazoo 4:00 SMC Tennis at Kalamazoo 3:00 



The Observer I Mike Ruma Brian Hamilton of Talk To Me After Class and Mark Zataveski of NBT II exchange pleasentries after NBT ll's 21-16 win . 
Wednesday, April 26 
ND Baseball vs. Alabama 5:00 ND Softball at DePaul 3:30 

• JOCK STRIP 


Looking at No.I from below 
Models INC. 
A name that strikes fear in the heart of any diehard Bookstore aficionado. And well it should. They're that 
good. I r----------. 
know first hand, be­cause I played w i t h them. 
Or,more appropri-~..---_.... ately, 1 Tim Seymour 
played below them, because their game is above the rim, while mine is confined by the standard laws of physics. 
The end result was a 21­13 defeat at the hands of the No. 1 seed yesterday at the Stepan courts. Fairly respectable, all things con-
see NO.I f page 16 
Thursday, April 27 
ND Baseball vs. Eastern Illinois 5:00 SMC Tennis at Albion College 2:00 








