
Friday, March 10, 1995• Vol. XXVI No. 104 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Hutchison takes SMC election 

Third election finally produces junior president 
By CAROLINE BLUM News Writer 
After visiting the polls three times, the sophomores of Saint Mary's finally chose Leigh Anne Hutchison, Anna Hafaj, Laura Loh, and Kelly Zermeno to represent their class next year. The Hutchison ticket de­feated the ticket including Leslie Field. Emily Ruffner, Becky Kellogg, and Anne Korte yesterday in the run-off elections. 
The Hutchison ticket earned 58 percent of the vote, while the Field ticket earned only 33 percent. Sixty-four percent of the class voted, and nine percent of the vote chose to abstain. 
The Field tieket ran unopposed in the junior class elections on February 21. but was upset by the abstain vote. As a result, the elec­tions were reopened to all sopho­more elass members. 
Seven tickets entered the race, and after Tuesday's vote, there rnmained only two. 
The two tickets entered the run­off with differing platforms. The Field ticket aimed to throw a Junior Jazz Fest, to start a video yearbook, and to provide a program for the juniors entitled "Balloons for Kids." 
The Hutchison ticket wants to plan a class mass with Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in the Sacred Heart Basilica, to bring "Mongo Jam" as a junior class sponsored event, and to create a Junior Jamboree Spirit Week at Saint Mary's. 
"Obviously, this is what our class wants," Field said. "As we look at it we gave the race a heck of a try." 
As the junior class officers, Hutchison, Rafaj, Loh, and Zermeno hope to bring a "fresh start" to Saint Mary's. 
"We really want to build class unity through our platform goals," said Hutchison. "The race was very exciting, and we want to congratu­late all of the tickets that ran." 
The Field ticket also wishes the Hutchison ticket the best of luck. Field, Ruffner, Kellogg, and Korte have all really enjoyed their last two years in office, and express their intentions to continue their role in 
The Obsc~r/ Robcn Bollman, Jr. 

student government through other avenues. 
Unfortunately, the Field ticket still has several misconceptions as to why the Hutchison ticket did not enter the race the first time. 
"We didn't run the first time because we weren't aware that the sophomore class was unhappy with the Field ticket. After they lost to the abstain vote, however, we knew that we were the people the class wanted. We were the people to get things done," said Hutchison. 
As to the race Field said, "We feel that we have gained a lot of respect because we hung in the race. We still hope to get our platform ideas of the ground. Just because we won't be holding office does not mean that our voices won't be heard." 
Video discussion brings together UN, Golden Dome 
By JAMIE HEISLER News Writer 
In conjunction with the United Nations World Summit for Social Development, Golden Dome Productions will be hosting a roundtable discussion featuring South African President Nelson Mandela, Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, and Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland. 
The discussion, titled "Talking Heads of State," will take place today in Copenhagen, Denmark, the site of the UN Summit, and will focus on three top­ics: poverty, unemployment and social integration. The roundtable will allow the four leaders to focus on common problems as well as possible solutions. 
The discussion will be made into an hour long program and is tentatively scheduled for broadcast on Sunday, March 12 on VISN-The Faith and Values Channel, a national cable network, as well as several other local and international stations. 
Golden Dome Productions, a full scale video pro­duction company owned by Notre Dame, became interested in the concept early in November and through contacts gained the support of the UN. 
"It was they'.re idea and our idea brought togeth­er," said Michael Schmiedeler, assistant producer of Golden Dome productions. In January the plan "kicked into high gear." 
Golden Dome Productions also plans to feature the UN Summit in a three-part program next fall for their "Today's Life Choices" series, a weekly half-hour documentary. 
The program is of importance to the university because "the issues that they are addressing are so important and so global. The program will also be good exposure for Notre Dame and a good way of carrying out the mission of the school, which is to educate," according to Schmiedeler. 
Editor's Note: This is the last installment in a four part series examining the dilemma ofbeing gay and Catholic 
By DAVE TYLER 
News EJitor 
The message could not have been any dearer. 
On Monday, Mar. 6, a two page advertisement titled "An Op11n Letter In Hesponse to the Campus Life Council Hesolution Calling for Hecognition of GLND/SMC," ran in The Observer. In the let­ter. Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara reject­oct the CLC's call for official recognition of Gays and Lesbian of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College. In the area of recognition, there would be no change from pre­vious University policy. 
All eyes now look to the road ahead. In her letter O'Hara said she believed that "the re­cent debate could be trans­formed in to a positive oppor­tunity ... The energy focused on the recognition question can serve to renew us with respect to the broader question of how-apart from recognition of GLND/SMC or another stu­dent group-we can enhance our efforts to meet the needs of our gay and lesbian students." In short, where does the University go from here? 
O'Hara's first step towards addressing the future needs of don't share O'Hara's view. 

"We have a different vision of the end. I think," Blandford said. "Gay and Lesbian stu­denis need to feel part of the campus just like anyone else. " He said that O'Hara's propos­als stop short of meeting that need, leaving gays and les­bians to feel only "better treat­ed." 
Under the current structure, and the structure proposed in the O'Hara letter "students would sit in a Campus Ministry support group and lament their fate," he said. "We really try to move beyond that. Sexual orientation would be something you hide, rather than integrate into your life and include in your faith." 
In addition, Smith said that she is fearful of placing all her trust in the hands of only one option for campus gays and lesbians. 
"There's no alternative to the Campus Ministry support groups," Smith said. "If that falls through, what then?" 
To come to any solution on the future of gay and lesbian students, discussions should be held between the University and GLND/SMC, Smith said. 
"There needs to be some kind of dialogue," Smith said. "We need to be used as a re­source-something that has never really happened before," said Smith. 
see FUTURE I page 4 


gay and lesbian students on campus was the formation of a 12 member ad hoc committee. The committee will explore three primary issues: what steps should Student Affairs take to eliminate harassment based on sexual orientation, what programs can Student Affairs sponsor to better equip staff for meeting the needs of gay and lesbian students, and how can the University sponsor a setting for gay and lesbian students to come together as a group to explore common is­sues and support, without being unfaithful to Church teaching? 
O'Hara's answer and pro­posal met with loud opposition. On Tuesday night, the Faculty Senate became the latest cam­pus body to voice its support of GLND/SMC, voting 30-3 to pass a resolution calling on the offi­cers of the University to imme­diately recognize the group. 
The O'Hara letter, while denying GLND/SMC recogni­tion, noted that the dispute over recognition involved a dis­agreement over "the appropri­ate ?,leans to an agreed upon end. 
John Blandford and Kelly Smith, co-chairs of GLND/SMC, page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Where have you gone Joe DiMaggio? 
Ford glances at the runner on third and then turns and gazes over to Berra crouched behind the plate, look­ing for the sign from the dugout. 
I've got about ten shoeboxes stacked hap­

hazardly in my closet at Brad Prendergast 
home in Fort Wayne, Associate News Editor Ind., full of baseball cards. They're a reminder of the days I spent in middle school swapping cards with my friends on recess or after school. I've always been a die-hard New York Yankees' fan, so whenever I could, I would trade for the cards of any Yankees' players. 
"Hey, Kevin, I'll give you three Nolan Ryan cards for a Don Mattingly and a Dave Winfield." 
"Throw in a stick of gum and you've got a deal." 
Williams digs his cleats into the batter's box. adjusts his grip on the bat. and returns the pitcher's empty stare. 
When my Little League playing days ended, I turned to umpiring ballgames. Little League umpires may have all the prestige of a super­market grocery boy and the popularity of a Democrat on the Notre Dame campus, but I had fun when I donned the gear of the men in blue. 
The games I saw were the typical Little League affairs: 18-17 scores with probably only one legitimate hit, but the kids had fun. Though their skills didn't match the level of major-leaguers, who was to say that their games were any worse? Most importantly, whether the kids won or lost, the game was only a distant memory five minutes after its conclusion, and boys who were rivals on the field were friends again. 
The umpire raises his fingers to announce the count. Three balls and two strikes. with two outs. The third-base coach whispers the strategy to the runner, and flashes the signs to Williams. 
Whether I've been a card collector, a player. or an umpire, I've always been a fan of the game of baseball. Many critics claim that baseball has lost its magic, that it is no longer the national pastime, pointing to the debacle between players and owners at the major league level as evidence. 
But that isn't real baseball-it's a sideshow 
to the business of making money at the 
expense of loyal fans. The true game can be 
found in the sandlots and minor league dia­
monds around the country. 
Ford goes into his wind-up and fires a fast­ball toward the plate. Williams is prepared for the heater, but the ball is by him by the time he swings. The umpire raises his right fist. 
Making the big leagues is not so grand any­
more. Until a baseball commissioner is elect­
ed to settle the strike, the papers will be domi­
nated by the names of Donald Fehr and Bud 
Selig, the two obstacles to progress in the dis­
pute. 
It's time for negotiators to put aside their 
differences in order to save the 1995 cam­
paign -ifnot for today's owners, players and 
fans, then for the memories of the players 
such as Whitey Ford, Yogi Berra, and Ted 
Williams who made the game great. 
Otherwise, as the inane baseball strike passes 
the 200-day mark, it threatens to ruin yet 
another season. 
Strike three, yer out. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODJW'S STAFF News Viewpoint Kristi Kolski Bridget Green Mark Hoffman Production Amy Schmidt David Diaz Deborah Schultz Jackie Moser 
Lab Tech Sports Dane Kramer 

The Observer • INSIDE Friday, March 10, 1995 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Storm hits northern California; Southern California waits 
ST. HELENA 

A howling Pacific storm lashed Northern California on Thursday, swamping roads, snapping power lines and raising fears of a repeat of January's disastrous floods. 
"The forecast unfortunately is for continued gusty wind and rain. I think we'll be in a roller-coaster situation for at least a day and a half," said Pacific Gas & Electric Co. spokesman Ron Rutkowski. The company called in extra crews to deal with more than 140,000 customers without power. 
In Southern California, residents braced for the storm's arrival, especially in La Conchita, the Ventura County town where a hillside collapsed Saturday, burying nine homes. 
Streams pushed over their banks in many areas in Northern California; in St. Helena, a small town in lush wine country, more than 350 people were evacuated when the Napa River overflowed. 
Rain was falling at a half-inch or more an hour in the Santa Cruz Mountains on the central coast south of San Francisco, and other areas reported that up to 8 inches of rain fell overnight. 
Rain was expected intermittently until Saturday morn­ing, raising fears that this latest storm could cause dam­age rivaling that from more than two weeks of rain in January. During that deluge, 11 people died and more than $300 million in damage was reported statewide. 
Up to 10 inches of rain was expected before a respite late Sunday or Monday. 
Belfast cheers Queen Elizabeth 
BELFAST 

On her first visit to Northern Ireland since an IRA cease-fire, Queen Elizabeth II praised its people for their courage and compassion. While mem­bers of the royal family usually venture into Northern Ireland with no advance notice, the royal couple's one-day visit was well-publicized. That reflects a relaxed attitude toward security since 


the Irish Republican Army began a cease-fire on Sept. 1. Addressing church and political leaders in an Armagh chapel, the queen said the people of Northern Ireland "have shown courage and compassion of an extraordi­nary kind." "Today as they begin to look towards a more peaceful future, Armagh, with its two great cathedrals standing so close together, presents a powerful symbol of the strength, spirit and hopes of people across Northern Ireland," she said. The queen restored city status to Armagh, which has Roman Catholic and Protestant cathedrals on adjacent hills. Legend has it that St. Patrick chose Armagh as his seat in the fifth century. 
Man sets self on fire at Red Cross H.Q. 
NEW YORK 

A man walked into an office of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies on Thursday complaining in broken English about human rights violations in Poland, dumped gasoline on himself, and set himself ablaze. "He screamed, and then became very quiet," agency director Eigil Petersen said. "The tragic thing is, he felt he had to commit suicide." He rebuffed efforts to send him to the Polish consulate or the United Nations, said the other Red Cross worker who wit­nessed the inunolation, Debra Bunt. The man threatened to blow up the office, and as in previous visits, com­plained about genocide and human rights violations in Poland, Peterson said. Because of his thick accent, the witnesses couldn't tell whose rights the man thought were being violated. The unidentified man was dead when paramedics arrived on the 21st floor of the mid­town Manhattan office tower, EMS spokesman David Billig said. 

Quebec to vote on independence 
MONTREAL 
An independence referendum will be held this year as promised, and Quebec voters will be asked to approve total separation from Canada rather than a political asso­ciation, Premier Jacques Parizeau said today. Parizeau's Parti Quebecois was elected last year on a platform to take the French-speaking province out of Canada, but opinion polls consistently show support for independence falls short of a majority. There has been widespread speculation recently that Parizeau would postpone the referendum or devise a diluted question on sovereignty that he could be sure to win. "I feel very much con­vinced, maybe even more so, that it (the referendum) must take place in 1995," Parizeau said today after returning from a ten-day vacation in Mexico. Parizeau said that while the referendum question would not refer to a political association with the rest of Canada, he has not ruled out the possibility of an economic association. A referendum on "sovereignty-association" with Canada was defeated in 1980, partly because the question was awkwardly worded and many people didn't know what it meant. 
Druglord added to FBI's most wanted 
WASHINGTON 
The reputed leader of a Mexican drug organization that brings tons of cocaine to the United States was put on the FBI's "Ten Most Wanted Fugitives" list today ­the first international drug trafficker ever listed. In an effort to highlight the move, Attorney General Janet Reno personally announced the addition of Juan Garcia­Abrego, 50, to the list at her weekly news conference. Most additions are announced in press releases by the FBI. Garcia-Abrego was indicted in Houston in 1993 on drug trafficking and money laundering charges and the Justice Department characterizes his organization as a major conduit for cocaine from Colombia's Cali cartel into this country. "Placement of Garda-Abrego's name on the 10 Most Wanted List demonstrates the importance we place on wiping out these self-proclaimed drug lords who deal in human death and misery," Reno said. She also went out of her way to praise the cooperation from the current Mexican government on drug enforcement. 
• INDIANA WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
The Accu-Weather<~~> forecast for noon, Friday, March 10. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 0 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pf CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Andy Cabiness Graphics Matt Casey Robert Bollman 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. Via Assoc/atod Press Graph/csNet C1995 Accu-Weather. Inc. 

Atlanta  69  37  Dallas  71  50  New Orleans 68  46  
Baltimore  57  29  Denver  70  40  New York  50  30  
Boston  44  23  Los Angeles 64  53  Philadelphia 56  28  
Chicago  61  38  Miami  75  59  Phoenix  73  57  
Columbus  60  34  Minneapolis  47  28  St. LOUIS  66  44  

Friday, March 10, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Collins: Pop culture adds to homophobia Desegregation 
By PATRICK BELTON 
N~sWriter 
Beverly l/ills 90210 is "tremendously heterosexist," said Assistant Dean Ava Collins. 
Like the rest of the mass me­dia in America, the show pri­marily depicts rich, white, het­erosexual men, and homosex­uals only appear in "stigma­tized and stereotypic ways that do not begin to get at the reality or complexity of their exis­tences," she said. 
Popular culture is by its na­ture homophobic, according to Collins. 
Collins made these remarks in a lecture yesterday in DeBar­tolo Hall. The talk, "Homophobia and Popular Culture," formed part of the Gender Studies Forum course of lectures and was sponsored by Gentler Students. 
She began by quoting writer Martha Gever as saying that popular names for gays-such as deviants, perverts, and queers-all describe their con­dition as a distortion of healthy sexuality. 
At the same time, popular culture rarely depicts wealthy, white, heterosexual men as constituting a social group. As a result, they come across as ihe human norm. according to Collins. 
Collins suggested film makers try "making normality strange and thus ultimately decentering it" so that the WASP ideals be­come "just images of identity alongside all others." 
Moving the mass media away from homophobia creates a number of questions, she said. 
Sympathetic film makers must decide between portray­ing characters who are only in­cidentally gay and depicting dif­ferent "sexual cultures" in their entirety. Also, homosexual pro­ducers have to decide whether to support gay and lesbian screenings, which may create homosexual solidarity but also may stigmatize their work to heterosexual audiences. 
Collins cited Philadelphia and Northern Exposure as ex­amples of the mass media mak­ing the normal strange. 
At the same time, she criti­cized Philadelphia as having "implicit homophobia" in de­picting a homosexual white male member of the power elite while ignoring homosexuals of lower classes. The movie suc­ceeded only because it pre­sented the problems of homo­sexuality, she said. 

Collins concluded by saying that those who would reform popular society according to her plan must take into account the effect of socio-economic power in relations between social groups. 
"I think the most productive, least homophobic popular cul­ture texts today are those that are in fact self-conscious about those relations of power," she said. 
aids learning opportunities 
By VICTORIA PRATTE 
News Writer 
Controlled choice in public education is the only way to achieve both academic excel­lence and equity of opportunity for all students, said Harvard Professor Charles Willie in a presentation yesterday. Ac­cording to Willie, America needs to focus on improving universal school quality, while ensuring racial desegregation. 
Willie detailed his plan in a lecture entitled "Controlled Choice: A New Approach to 
Indiana Toil Road 


255-7777 

Edison Rd. 9 MONTH LEASES FOR STUDENTS 3 MONTH SUMMER LEASES 
..•,~~"" 
·Pool & Jacuzzi 

• 
Club House 


• 
Washer/Dryer McKinley 


_l___ ----­

• 
Microwaves 


• 
Intruder Alarms Jefferson Blvd. 


--t----------
Lincolnway East 
---+---------'--------------­
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join the Observer staff. 
Achieving Equity and Excel­lence in School Desegregation," as part of a series sponsored by Notre Dame's Urban Institute. To accomplish these goals, Willie proposes giving parents a choice about where to educate their children, provided that they meet certain racial guide­lines. Parents can select any 
see RACIAL/ page 4 



We are. 
REVIEW~­

800/865.,7737 
Tlu! Answer To Standardized Tests 
r --LoochSp'BCial--, r -NiffYilifle'1itt; -, r -LateNiOhf speciBi -, r --o';;t"'"'L~e--,
Houns: 

1 One Topping 1
I 1-10" Small II 1-16" Extra Large I I (9:00p.m. until closing) I 
M!nlay-Thursday 11:00 am-1:00am. 
I 2Topping Pizza II Two Toppings I I 1-14" Large I I I with 1can of Coke II I I 1Topping Pizza I : I




T~~~~~e

Friday &Saturday 11 :00 a.m. -3:00 a.m. 
I II I I I
$59~ $950~ $59~
Stnlay Noon -1:00 am. 
I II I I I I 
I : $119~ 
LAddiliDIII/ ToppiniJS 95c eM:h Not VBiid with IllY other coupoo...J ~dition.!J Toppin(}S $125 eM:h. Not Y6/id with lilly other coupoo..J LAdditilllllll Toppinus 95c IIIICh. Not Y6lid with any other cvupoo..J LAdfj/im.tf ToppiJI(}S 95c Mch llotrllid with 111JfO/herC1JUPDII...J
~lwsmayKI)'. 

~---------~ ~­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, March 10, 1995 
Future 
continued from page 1 
Homosexual students should have their own voice in deter­mining any outcome, Blandford said. 
"Part of the message (from the administration) in all of this is you don't know what's good for you," he said. "We'd love to deal with them as adults." 
Members of the ad hoc com­mittee expressed hope that their work could be meaning­ful, and help produce a result all parties could agree to. 
Incoming student body vice­president Dennis McCarthy said he and running-mate Jonathan 
• SECURITY BEAT 
MON~MARCH6 
11:31a,m. A University e 
reported the theft of his co player from 
Cushing Halt 
1 p.m. ~~Lyons Hall residentreport~~ 
the theft bt her license plate froin hlrlr ••ii'~ ' 
vehicle wruch was parked In the 06 park· 
inglot. 
3:15p.m. Security arrested a south 
Bend re$ldent for trespassing anq · 
der1y conduct. ····· 

TUES. MARCH 7 
2:42a.m. Security transported 
Dillon Hall resident to St Joseph M~~i(lll) 
Center for treatment bt a ear injury•. c'!';:+:·: · 
3:34 a.m. Security transporte(! a· · Morrissey Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Cenwr for treatment of a lacera• 
tlon. ~~WW?t:.i:':~~ 
12:37 p.m. Security responded to a;;;, two caraccident on Oorr Road. There · · were no injuries reported. ·· · 
bWED~, MARCH 8 
7:55a.m. security r8Sponaed to11 two-cer accident on Old JuniperR® 'f!lere ~reno injuries report&!i. l' F 
•:f10:10 a.m; A UniVersity errip)oyfie 
wastransported by Security to the Stu·. •· dent health Center fpr ~ent of aJaij. eration. :!,++·. 
3:59 P·Rl< A Flanner Hall residSnt tfr ported the the.f! bt his laundry bag from the Flanner haU laundry pick-up area. "· 
>~f.x···,,fo., 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 


Patrick were hesitant at first about joining the committee, but felt reassured after talking to other committee members and representatives of the Of­fice of Student Affairs. 
"We feel this is a sincere ef­fort from the University," said McCarthy. "We hope some good can come of it, we definitely want to make sure that some­thing comes out of all this." 
Patrick and McCarthy's plat­form urged support for gay and lesbian students in addition to overall student involvement. McCarthy said that both hope to be able to incorporate these planks in the work of the com­mittee. 
"We're trying to make sure as many students as possible are 



Racial 
continued from page 3 
one of several public schools within their geographic zone, as long as that choice preserves racial balance within the com­munity. 
According to Willie, the re­sults of controlled choice are twofold. His plan allows stu­dents the opportunity to attend school where they wish, while also exposing them to a mix­ture of people with varied backgrounds. 
"Being in the presence of our opposites, is for our own bene­fit," Willie said. We can learn something from everyone we encounter. especially those very different from us. 
Beyond the personal and so­cietal benefits of controlled choice, Willie's plan promotes academic excellence. Overall school quality improves as indi­represented, including a repre­sentative of GLND/SMC," he said. 

Sister Joris Binder, Rector of Pasquerilla East and member of the new ad hoc committee said that communication will be paramount as the group begins its task. 
"The best thing to come out of these events so far is the conversation. All levels of the university; faculty, staff, stu­dents are talking, and that's healthy," she said. "We've got to be open to listening to all sides in this, and supporting everyone the best we can," said Binder. 

Binder said she hopes that sort of attitude will go a long way in finding a workable com­promise. 
vidual schools make every ef­fort to attract students. As Willie stated, "Excellence and equity go hand in hand... Excellence can be achieved without compromising equity." 
Boston public schools imple­mented Wille's plan, and have seen improvements in aca­demic quality. Thirty-three schools are now over-de­manded by all racial groups. New faculty and exciting pro­grams have attracted more and more students, and pressured other schools to follow suit. Most importantly, for Willie, desegregation and quality must exist simultaneously. 
Parents are very positive about the opportunity to select schools for their children. Willie's studies show that "peo­ple prefer quality over con­venience." Parents do not mind having their children bussed out of the neighborhood if it means that they will receive a quality education. 


A portion ofthe visitor park­ing.:;:Jot adjacent to the Hesburgh Center for Inter­national Studies will close per­manently Monday (March 13). 

'"'~t;~u•>f,'~<-"'';····· A p~Wentrance to th~ remain· der,:pf the lot willbe con­strticted south of the Hesburgh Center, and faculty 
....• and. staff with a valid decal 
•· ~ and "Kontrol Kard". will con­tinue to have access to that area, 
•· /i'I!:\The B-1 tot east of the Uni• versity Club will close pev manently in April when the ·· wii;; quadranglejs extended from J,, DeBartolo .Hall to the south Elecd · end of the soon-to-be-com­
. plated College of Business Administration complex. A'•·· For information on parking, call (219) 631-5053. In­formation on campus con­struction is available at (219) 631-4200. 
Saint Mary's Road on the University of Notre Dame campus will be closed be­ginning Tuesday (March 14) to accommodate work on a utili­ty project. The road is sched· uled to be reopened by Friday (March 17). 
For more information on traffic and parking call 631­5053. For information on con­struction, call 631-4200. 
Tornado Awareness Week is March 13-17. There will be a county wide test between 10 
a.m. and 11 a.m. 

THE  Hours  
STYLE  M-F 10-8 Sat 10-6  
CO. INC.  Sun 12-4  

"Alternative Clothing for Today's Women' 
THE STYLE CO., INC. NOW OPEN 
A unique shopping experience without the Grape Rd. hassle. 
• 
Over 40 styles of Hats 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Open evenings and Sundays 

• 
Alterations and layaway available 


1912 S, 11th, Niles 687-9123 
"In the newly remodeled Belle Plaza" 


CLASS OF '96 
This Is Our Last Chance! 
The Senior Class Officers are accepting applications fc)r positions on the following committees: 
• 
Alumni[Senior Club 

• 
Fundraasing·Publicity·Service 

• 
Senior Week/ Welcome Back Week 

• 
Class of '96 Alumni Club 


·Class IJ'rips
• 
Senior Concerns 

• 
On-Campus Activities 

• 
Graduation 


fGet Involved -The More, The Merrier!!' Applications can be picked up in the Student Government Office, and are due by Friday, March 24th. 
Kevin Paul Nate Kale KOWIK BERREftiNI EBELING GRISHAM President Vice-President Treasurer Secretar~T 
J 
-----~----------~-------------~------­
Friday, March 10, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Anti-Semitic bible recalled House GOP leaders 
Associated Press 
PARIS 

A Roman Catholic bishop said Thursday he has ordered the recall of a new Bible that por­trays Jews with old-fashioned stereotypes long considered 
derogatory. been sold in France and Bel­
Jean-Charles Thomas, the gium since May 1994. bishop of Versailles, acknowl­The Bible is the work of edged the "Bible for Christian Bernard Hurault, a missionary Communities," for which he in Chile who intended it for wrote the preface, had an poor people. Eighteen million "anti-Semitic aspect." copies in English and Spanish 
About 60,000 copies have have been distributed in South America. 
According to the text, the Jewish people killed Christ because they "were not able to control their fanaticism." 
The bible also reduced Jewish custom to "folkloric

JEWELERS 
duties involving circumcision 
and hats." Responding to protests,b~ Thomas withdrew his approval 
•Providing service & quality for 20 years 
of the text and ordered publish­ers to make revisions and add his apologies. Dissatisfied with 
•
Specializing in engagement rings & anniversary rings. 

• 
Fine custom made jewelry. 



the result, French Jewish
·Repairs 

leader Jean Kahn complained to the Vatican, which agreed that the text "contradicted the
Centennial Place North Village Mall 
teachings of the Vatican II." 
Next to Talbots U.S. 31 North 
277-1010 
delay ter01 li01it vote 
By DAVID ESPO 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Facing likely defeat on a key provision of their "Contract With America," House Republi­cans are delaying a vote on a constitutional amendment for term limits on lawmakers to rally support. 
"In the next few weeks the leadership will be working hard to cultivate the votes nec­essary to pass term limits," Majority Leader Dick Armey, R­Texas, wrote other lawmakers Wednesday in announcing the bill would not come to the floor as scheduled next week. A vote in late March is likely. 
But even as Armey vowed to fight for the measure, two other members of the House 

Army and we'll assign a preceptor to help put you at ease. 
Your preceptor will be an experienced Army Nurse who will smooth your transition from school to practice. With advice, counsel on Army nursing procedure, or just being a friend; 
With your preceptor's help, you'll meet your new challenges and rapidly move into a leadership role of you're own.


1996JPW 
If you're a BSN candidate•.•or you are an RN with a 
BSN•••you'll find the rewards and resposibility you're looking 
for in Army Nursing. Contact your local Army Nurse Corps

EXECUTIVE 
Recruiter. Call : (317) 638,9502

COMM11TEE! 
DON'T Ml SS OUT! ARMY NURSE CORPS. 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE 
BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
LAFORTUNE INFO DESK. APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5:00P.M. ON 
Bring your BSN to the 

GOP leadership voiced contin­ued opposition, underscoring the difficulty of rounding up the two-thirds majority necessary for passage. 
"Most people have not thought through the unin­tended consequences," said six-term Rep. Tom DeLay of Texas, the party's whip. He said a limit on congressional terms would simply transfer power to unelected bureau­crats. DeLay said he had made that case to first-term lawmak­ers last winter during his lead­ership race, and noted he was elected despite his opposition to the measure. 
Rep. John Boehner, R-Ohio, chairman of the GOP caucus, serving his third term, also said he was standing firm in opposi­tion. 
In contrast, the 73 GOP first­termers, many of whom pledge strong loyalty to the "Contract With America," are expected to vote solidly for a term limits amendment. 
"It's in the nature of the freshman's message that we be out front" on the issue, said Rep. George Nethercutt, R­Wash. He defeated then­Speaker Thomas Foley last year in a race that turned in part on Foley's opposition to a statewide, voter-passed term limits law. 
Before they can· round up votes for an amendment, the party leadership must first de­cide on the details of a bill. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service -$1.00 

• 
Appraisals large and SITli.lll 


• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperback Books in stock 

Open noon to six Tuesdl'y through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219] ~32-844:1 


Relax and lighten your load 
with our VISA Classic. 
, Use it for emergencies or 
for your purchasing convenience. 
It's one cool card! 

NO ANNUAL FEE. To app1y, ca11 288-NDCU . 
~ 
NOTRE DAME

Reserved seat tickets $22.50 available at the Morris Civic Auditorium, 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Tracks Records, Method Music (Concord MaiVEikhart) 
Independent of the University
or charge by phone 235-9190 or 800-537-6415. PRODUCED BY SUNSHINE PROMOTIONS 

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, March 10, 1995 
Peso slides to new low despite emergency plan 
By ANITA SNOW 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 
President Ernesto Zedillo's delay in releasing a plan for addressing Mexico's financial crisis sent the peso tumbling Thursday for a fifth straight day. 
Treasury Secretary Guillermo Ortiz said Thursday afternoon that the emergency plan would be unveiled in the evening, but not before the peso closed at an all-time low. 
After weeks of delays, the Mexican currency market was little assured. 
It lacked any clear signal that Zedillo could come up with enough of a plan to surmount the crisis. 
The peso opened at 6.995 to the dollar but closed at a new low of 7.45 Thursday after trading as low as 7. 7 during the day. The peso has eroded for nearly a week, closing at all-time lows each of the past five days. 
The peso, worth about 28 cents when it began sliding on Dec. 20, is now worth less than half that. 
The stock market closed up 
2.8 percent above Wednesday's close as some traders hedged their bets on the new economic plan. 
Businesses and labor were reported to be bracing for new austerity measures, including potentially heavy tax increases and restraints on wage in­creases. 
Jose Madariaga Lomelin, 

president of the Bankers Asso­ciation of Mexico, exhorted Mexicans to accept any tax in­creases as a necessary step. 
"This is like a bitter medi­cine: You have to take it even though it is disagreeable," Madariaga was quoted as telling El Financiero, a Mexico City business daily. 
Media reports said the 10 percent value-added tax could be raised along with the price of gasoline and electricity, while minimum wage increases could be held to as little as 6 or 8 percent. 
Those reports could not be immediately confirmed. 
Nonetheless, business leaders have already begun protesting expected tax hikes. Some 400 of them demonstrated Wednesday in the northern industrial city of Monterrey. 
Ordinary Mexicans said they feared life would soon become even more difficult. 
Everything from telephone service and transportation to basic foodstuffs have become more expensive since December while paychecks lagged. 
"We can't afford any more increases," said Juan Carlos Aguilar, who runs a photogra­phy shop in Mexico City. "Business has fallen 80 percent in the last several months and everything costs more, includ­ing film." 
Market vendors said business had plunged some 50 percent as the prices of food, particu­larly meat, has soared in recent months. 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

CHAMBER SINGERS 
Nancy Menk, Conductor present 


BRAVA! 
Music ofWomen Composers 
Friday, March 10, 8 p.m. Little Theatre 
Tickets$8• 
This concert will be interpreted in American Sign Language *Discounts for campus community members, senior citizens, students and groups. Call or visit box office for details. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9-5 Monday-Friday. Discover, Visa, MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 

t\ORfftU CtnHR 
fOR ltt[ 41 R T S 
N. Korea signs new reactor deal 
By TONY CZUCZKA 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
The United States and its al­lies signed a deal Thursday to supply North Korea with new nuclear reactors made by its chief rival: South Korea. The communist North indicated it would reject them. 
The deal to finance and build two 1,000-megawatt light-wa­ter reactors worth $4 billion is intended to wean the reclusive North from a nuclear program suspected of developing atomic weapons. 
North Korea agreed on Oct. 21 to phase out its nuclear pro­gram in return for a U.S. offer of improved ties and help in providing the new reactors. 
South Korea has offered to foot most of the bill -provided its companies supply the reac­tors. South Korea also sees the reactor deal as a possible way to promote political talks with the north. 
U.S. chief negotiator Robert Gallucci reiterated after the signing that there was no alter­native to South Korean reac­tors. 
"It is what we agreed to (with North Korea) and that's what we plan on doing," he told re­porters, adding that the project "is much to the advantage" of the North Koreans. 
The October deal had set an April 21 target date for a reac­tor contract. 
As Thursday's accord ap­proached, the North ratcheted up its campaign against the 
proposal for South Korean­made reactors, calling them unproven. Experts say the real reason, however, is pride. 
The North warned the United States it may rescind its freeze on operations at the Yongbyon nuclear reactor without a con­tract by April 21, the South's Yonhap news agency reported Wednesday, quoting unidenti­tied diplomatic sources. 
The warning was reportedly contained in a March 2 letter from North Korean Vice For­eign Minister Kang Sok Ju to Gallucci, the sources said. 
Experts have suspected the graphite-moderated reactor at Yongbyon produced weapons­grade plutonium that could be used for nuclear weapons. 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Accent Writers Accent Music Critics Accent Literary Critics Accent Copy Editors Assistant Accent Editors 
Please submit a one page statement ofintent to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 p.m.March 24th. Call 631-4540 for more information. 

Think about it: 
~ Remember you don't have to be ~ Respect other people's right, and your "drunk" to be Impaired-even one or own-to choose not to drink. two drinks affect your driving skills. 
~ Respect state laws and campus policies. ~ Stay out of dangerous situations 
~ Wear your seat belt-It's your bestInvolving alcohol, whether In a car, a protection against an Impaired driver. 
bar, or a bedroom. ~ If one of your friends drinks to the point
~ Drlnldng, drugs and driving don't mix. 
of passing out, alcohol poisoning Is a 
~ 

Take your tum being a designated real danger. If you are the least bit driver-get everyone where they are concerned, please seek medical going safely. attention. Better safe than sorry! 
Play it safe. Have a Spring Break to remember . 
• 


~-------~------­
Friday, March I 0, 1995 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Christopher denounces Conoco contract us pledges 
r---------------------------------------, 
HOW TO GET YOUR JOLLIES AT COLLEGE 24 HOURS A DAY. 
Open a tab at a diner. 
Belgian waffles and cheese fries with gravy are delicious, regardless of the hour. 

Visit a local court of law. 
Plenty of seating, unique conversation and
*drama that improves the later it gets. 

Be the gym night janitor. 
Work out at your leisure and never wait in line for lat pulldowns or the erg. 

Get a Citibank Classic card. 
For your peace of mind, operators are on
*call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 

"Enjoy a unique experience in Oriental Dining" 
e Fresh Ingredients e lunch Specials starting at $3.50 
include: egg roll, soup and tea e Dinners starting at $5 e Private Dining Booths e Custom cooking with no MSG 
l!!!JINTAl UPUSSI 

e Vegetarian Menu e 15 Years of Service Award For Reservations & Carry Out Co//: 

72-6702 

For Dine-In Delivery Call: 

72-2328 

1?-\t-ieh.t~.l '-../-e~P-~1-e~~:......-....,..~ 







JRZZMAN'S 
52 5 N. H I L L ST. 233-8505 
Presents: 
3 Nights of College Celebration!!!! 
A Post Exam and Pre-Spring Vacation Celebration 
THURSDAY, MARCH 9-PRINCE NIGHT FRIDAY, MARCH 10-GRATEFUL DEAD NIGHT SATURDAY, MARCH 11-DISCO/HIP HOP NIGHT 
Bring your favorite tape or CD to play by any of the above artist before 10 
p.m. and you will receive a door prize, and if you are wearing a mini-skirt with a tape or CD in hand before 10 p.m. you will receive two door prizes.$3.00 admission with student ID, $5.00 w I o student or staff ID. Doors open 8 p.m. 
State law requires all patrons entering must be 21 or older with proofofagerequirementuponrequest for entry. 
defense of weak dollar 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The world should be "absolutely clear" that America will defend its curren­cy, the Clinton administration declared Thursday, striking a resolute note as financial mar­kets continued to pound the dollar. 
While Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin was offering the administration's most detailed defense yet of the U.S. cur­rency, markets were driving the dollar down against the Japanese yen. 
Economists said traders shrugged off Rubin's state­ments and concentrated in­stead on further economic chaos in Mexico, where the peso fell to a third straight record low. Markets remain worried that turmoil in Mexico, America's third­largest export market, will harm the U.S. economy. 
In late afternoon trading in New York, the dollar was quot­ed at 90.45 yen, down from 
91.33 yen the previous day. The dollar did manage to eke out a small gain against the German mark, closing at 1.3945 marks, up slightly from 1.3935 Wednesday. Even with the further drop against the yen, it remained above a record low set earlier in the week. 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
TEL AVIV 

A major American oil compa­ny's contract with Iran to de­velop a Persian Gulf oil field came under severe attack Thursday from Secretary of State Warren Christopher. He accused Conoco of assisting an "outlaw nation" that supports terrorism. 
"We are working to contain Iran," Christopher said, accus­ing the Tehran government of having "an evil hand" every­where in the Middle East. 
The contract by Conoco Inc., worth an estimated $1 billion, is the first energy agreement involving Iran and the United States since the Carter adminis­tration severed relations with Tehran in 1980. 
Christopher was in the Middle East trying to promote the ex­pansion of Palestinian self-rule on the West Bank and to re­open negotiations between Is­rael and Syria. 
Iran cast a long shadow over Christopher's shuttle mission. The State Department for years has accused Iran of supporting terrorists bent on sidetracking the peace process with attacks on Israelis, of a major role in the Mideast drug trade and of abusing its Kurdish and Shiite citizens. 
Israel, meanwhile, explains its unwillingness to submit to international nuclear inspection by pointing to potential attack from such adversaries as Iran, Iraq and Libya. 
The no-inspection stand has strained relations with Egypt and provoked formation of an Arab bloc that threatens to oppose the Clinton administra­tion's drive to extend the 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty indefinitely. 
"We feel that Iran is an out­law nation," Christopher said in a joint news conference with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. 
© 1995 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Friday, March 10, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Desigo Manager ...................... Ryan Maylayter Sports Editor .................... George Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scon Mendenhall Observer Marketing Director ............... Tom Lillig Saint Mary's Editor ............... Elizaberh Regan Conuoller..................................... Kristen Martina 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Spores Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the aU£hors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The !tee expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.l@nd.edu General information 631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
O'Hara's group lacks expertise 
Dear Editor: 
As a member of both the Campus Life Council (CLC) and GLND/SMC, I would like to share some insight with the campus regarding the recent controversy on cam­pus over the CLC's call for the administration to recognize GLND/SMC. 
The CLC was initiated by the Board of Trustees to advise the Vice President for Student Affairs (Professor O'Hara) on issues relating to campus life. On Feb. 20, the CLC advised Professor O'Hara through the passage of a res­olution calling on her office to formally recognize GLND/SMC. 
Although CLC was designed to advise O'Hara and adhered to this duty, it seems that the advice was inconsistent with the advice that O'Hara wished to receive. The result? The creation of another committee wherein the issue can be shelved for another nine months (the "new" committee has until Dec. 6 to issue an official response). and perhaps this time the advice will be better received (the "new" commit­tee has already been informed, prior to their first meeting, that recognizing GLND/SMC is not an option). 
The University has spoken on the issue, through the Student Senate, Faculty Senate, Hall Presidents' Council, Graduate Student Union, Graduate Theological Union and the CLC. Yet, Student Affairs chooses to blatantly ignore these opin­ions, and seeks further, per­haps more 'popular' solu­tions. It seems that creating more committees only expands the bureaucratic mess we already have, and tables a crucial issue even further. 
This "new" committees is comprised of eleven heterosexuals and two homo­sexual students (to be appointed by O'Hara and not to be declared representa­tives of GLND/SMC), who are to plan, initiate, and install the administration's new policies regarding homosexuality. In no way do I intend to question the credi­bility of the members of this committees, and I have no doubts that these individuals share a genuine desire to remedy this problem in a humanistic and spiritual manner. However, I remain unsure as to how the needs of all gay and lesbian students can be adequately assessed through a committee with only two homosexuals, and only four students. 
Furthermore, I am curious as to how the staff of Campus Ministry will appropriately run a support group for ques­tioning students in light of the fact that they have no experi­ence in dealing with homo­sexuality themselves. I am skeptical as to how eleven heterosexuals can address the needs of hundreds of gay and lesbian students when they have no idea what it feels like to experience the prejudices gay and lesbian students face on a daily basis. 
There is a distinct advan­tage and unmatchable wis­dom in those individuals who have experience in dealing with homosexuality that gives them the authority to support and council another student in the same predicament. I may not be an expert on Church teaching or psycho­logical assessment, but I do know what it feels like to hate myself, and to lie about who I am. I know what it feels like to "come out" to parents and friends and to be told that I have let people down, that I have failed as a person, and that I will be hated for the rest of my life by a conservative society. I know countless people who have been evicted and cut off financially due to their sexu­ality, and I know people who have taken their own lives as a result of society's hatred of this delicate issue. These things can not be fully under­stood by a heterosexual, all the good intention in the world can not compensate for the experience. 
Regardless, I am hopeful that this new committee will shed some light onto this controversial and urgent issue. However. the GLND/SMC recognition issue is far from resolved. GLND/SMC will continue to flourish and will remain recognized by the students and faculty, regardless of the administration's attempts to disband the group and to rid campus of all traces of the group. Someday, I believe that it will be against every sort of law and every con­science to treat an individual as I and other gay and les­bian students have been treated. Until that day, thank you to all of those who have and who continue to support the efforts of GLND/SMC. 
NIKOLE NEIDLINGER 
Senior 
Off-campus 

Prof. Rice's brand of hate not welcome in this family 
Dear Editor: 

I am writing in response to Law Professor Charles Rice's Monday, March 6 column. While I am certainly not a proponent of censorship, there comes a time when good conscience must question what effect a column such as Rice's has on the University. How do Hice's columns affect the way in which the outside world views this University? And. perhaps more importantly, how do his columns affect the way Notre Dame views itself and treats particular members of the University? 
In his latest column, Rice equates a Gay/Lesbian support group to "the Aryan Nation or a student bestiality club" as an example of "hope­ful, constructive teaching of the Church." I strongly suggest we need either to closely examine this teaching, or Prof. Rice's interpretation. 
Hate has no place at an institution that claims to be a "family" on vir­tually every piece of paper it produces. ROBERT VEGA 
Doctoral Student in Medieval History 

Student baiting inappropriate 
Dear Editor: 

On March 6th-the very day on which Vice President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara was publicly welcoming gay and lesbian stu­dents as "valued members of the Notre Dame community"-I read Professor Charles Rice's column in the Observer. Rice's column indi­cates that he has done a lot of reading about the issue of homosexuali­ty, has given it much thought, and has a desire to contribute to the ongoing debate about the morality of homosexuality in the light of Church teaching. But in his March 6 column, Professor Rice has min­gled "baiting" with "debating." 
In the 1950's, the author Paul Blanchard was characterized as a "Catholic-baiter" because of his inaccurate and bitter attacks on the Church, whose political influence at the time was still quite small in this country. Rice indulges in a different kind of baiting when he discusses whether GLND/SMC should become a recognized student group. He offers this comparison: "To recognize GLND/SMC would be roughly comparable to recognizing a chapter of the Aryan Nation or a student bestiality club." No useful, or even meaningful comparison can be made between Aryan Nationalists or "bestiality clubs" and those Notre Dame students who belong to a gay support group. Professor Rice has thus injected a frivolous comparison into a serious debate that has grave implications for real, live human beings. 
This is irresponsible behavior; and it is also insulting behavior­insulting, demeaning, and contemptuous behavior. And since his insult is leveled at a relatively powerless and vulnerable minority group­Notre Dame gay and lesbian students-the insult clearly constitutes "gay-baiting." Baiting is offensive in ordinary discussions, and it is egregious in any forum at a Catholic university. 
FATHER DAVID GARRICK 
Assistant Professor 
Communication and Theatre 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 


''The man who worships 
the ground his girl walks on, proabaly knows her father owns the property." 

---------, 
Friday, March 10, 1995 The Observer•WEEKEND page 9 
The sea~ch 



beyol'\d 
The 

C\~ea+ Wall 
Excavating in Danu with Professor Rigby 
By CHAD SMOCK 
Dean Castillino of Science and Dean Michel of
Special to The Observer 
W
En~in_eering made an l:'npre~edented move by financially hile many Notre Dame students are packing asststmg the students m thetr endeavor. The University their bags and preparing to travel to a covered the airfare from the U.S. to Hong Kong. Now Spring Break hot spot, a particular group of the possibility of going to China was more of a reality. students is still talking about how they spent Christmas The group met the rest of the research team in San vacation. These students didn't travel to one of the top Francisco and on December 28 they left for China in beaches of the world. This group of Notre Dame stu-search of dinosaurs. dents, led by Professor J. Keith Higby Jr., traveled to the They arrived early in the morning in Hong Kong and Far East to visit China. Not only was their destination a didn't have much time to get adjusted before they !itt!e out of the norm, but also their reason for going. hopped on a train and traveled north into the Peoples fh1s group traveled to the Far East in search of some-Republic of China, to the border town of Shen-Zhen. thing ... something rare... something very few people The firs~ dar wa~ spent trying to recover from the jet lag ever lind... something that has been buried for millions and fittmg m wtth the culture. Dinner was their first of years ... that something was not gold, silver, or oil... it chance to get authentic Chinese food. The meal consist-was dinosaurs. ed of glazed chicken feet for starters, snake soup, hill-
It all began last fall when the group of Dan Drew, Felix rat stew and some assorted vegetables and rice. Knoll, Elizabeth Morris, Chad Smock, Jim Ely, Chrissy Throughout the trip the food was a major topic of con­Brown and a few others joined the Geological Sciences versation. After a day and a half of adjusting the group 495, Dinosaur Evolution and Extinction. "When I was left for Xi-Xing to begin their research. 
younger I enjoyed crawling around and acting like a di-While in Xi-Xing the group was able to see their first nosaur, so I thought it would be neat to Jearn more dinosaur. This area had several sites where the remains about them so I could improve my technique." said Dan of dinosaur eggs, ancient turtles, Drew. Elizabeth Morris said, "I really enjoyed GEOS and other bone assern­142 last year and I wanted to learn more about the Pele blages that could be of Hypothesis, so I dinosaur origin were signed up for Searching found. The rock in 
(Professor) Higby's which the dinosaur cl~tl~ls:" I for Dino_~~r~..., _,·.. was ernbedhded was
11s c ass was r-~ ~ ____ extremely ard, and taught by Professor OverChristmasBreak, the crews worked 
J. Keith Higby Jr.. sixNotreDame with equipment that 0 nn 0 f the mOSt students visited China was a little less than renown scientists in toresearchdlnosaurs. modern. After a day's the field of dinosaur Headed by Professor hard work the group had research. Professor Keith Rigby Jr., the removed the foot of the Higby is co-author of team excavated 4 dinosaur and had sent it to a new extinction the-sijes. unearthing bone the local museum to be ory that is gaining assemblages and prepared. momentum through-dinosaur eggs. There were several other out the scientific experiences, non-science community. In his related, which will also be theory, the Pele remembered. While in Hypothesis, he Nanxiong, several of the cIai m s that d i-L.,_----------------n;;'Qb';;;;;;;;;c;;;;s;;;On;e;M;Mu~u;nn;ls students were interested in 
nosaurs did not have a mass extinction at the end of the playing basketball at the Cretaceous period due to a meteor striking the earth, local arena. Professor Rigby spoke with the governor of but rather experienced a more drawn out extinction pat-the county and requested a game for the following tern due to falling oxygen levels that allowed some evening. T~e following day the group was walking dinosaurs to live even in the Tertiary period. aro~nd the c~ty when they carne across a giant sign at 
Professor Higby is continuously gathering information the mtersectwn of the two major streets. The inter­to help support his theory. One of the areas where the preters started laughing and explained the sign invited dinosaur record is very complete is in China. Last all to attend the international game between the U.S. vs. snmester during one of his lectures in class Professor China that night at 7:30. The group wasn't sure exactly H!gby m~mtioned th~ po~sibility of having st~dents join how to respond. It seemed as though their request of a !urn m h1s research for dmosaurs in southern China over little pick-up game was turning into something larger. Christmas vacation. Several students responded by As night carne and the team made its way to the arena quickly checking bank statements or calling horne to they thought it was a little odd that the streets were sweet talk mom and dad. Felix Knoll stated, "When Doc actually empty and many of the shops were closed for oll'ered us the opportunity to join him in China I jumped the evening. The traffic that was seen was all headed in at the chance." Chrissy Brown felt " . .it's not every day the direction of the arena. Once the arena was in sight, you get to join an internationally renown scientist on his a chain of people 250 yards long could be seen extend­research in a foreign country." ing from the doors. When the team walked on the floor 
In the end there were six students who showed inter-they were greeted by a standing room only crowd. est in the trip. For many the cost was still too steep and Overall the crowd was around 8,000 people who carne to their hopes of actually making it to China were fading. see "Dream Team III." The Chinese team was the local Then the University stepped in and gave a helping hand. All-Star team for Nanxiong County. Only a small hand­
ful of the Americans had ever played basketball before, so the talent level was slightly mismatched. In the end the Chinese (1-0) were victorious by a score of 89-60 over the Americans (0-1). 
"I had never played basketball before, but I had played water polo, so I knew a little about the game. and I couldn't believe the response we got from the Chinese. They truly enjoyed our presence," said Chrissy Brown. When the game was over the Americans were swarmed by the Chinese children asking for autographs and want­ing to know if they played in the NBA. 
If asked, any of the students will tell you the China trip was one of the most rewarding experiences of their edu­cation here at Notre Dame. Dan Drew felt "...this was definitely one of the highlights of my time at Notre Dame. Someday I'll be able to tell my kids that I spent a couple of weeks in China digging up dinosaurs and being an internationally known basketball player. It was amazing." The students were able to see things they had read about for years and could now actually discover them on their own. They visited areas of China where the Chinese had rarely seen Caucasians and they had to rely on their interpreters for everything. Through the 

Photo courtesy of Chris Smock University's assistance they were given memories they Professor Rigby and pressed duck will always cherish. 

Friday 
•7:30 
P..M. FOLK DANCING, .CLUBHOUSE, SMC 

•B 
P.M; CONCERT, "BRAVAI!" SOUTH BEND CHAMBER SINGERS, LITTLE THEATER, SMC 




Saturday 


t14 P~M. NOTRE DAME WOMEN'S TENNIS VS. CLEMSON, ECK TEN· NIS PAVILLION 
Sunday 
•]J:30 A;M. TOOAY'S LIFE CHOICES: 1'SUPREME COURT: HOW .IT WORKS," WNIT-TV, CI-IANNEL 34 

:,Movies 


.UNIVERSITY PARK EAST OUTBR.EAK ·1 :30, 4: 15, 7, 9:50 HIDEAWAY 1:30, 4:10, 7:15, 9:45 ROOMATES ·12 (SAT & SUN), 5, 7:30, 10 PULP FICTION 2, 5: 15, 8:45 MAN OF THE HOUSE 12: 1 5 (SAT & SUN), 2:35, 4:50, 7: 10, 9:30 BILLY MADISON 12 (SAT & SUN), 2: 15, 4:20 
UNIVERSITY PARK WEST BRADY BUNCH 2: 15, 4:30, 6:45, 9 HEAVY WEIGHTS 2:30, 4:45 LEGENDS OF THE FALL 7, 9:40 THE MANGLER 2, 9:30 THE WALKING DEAD 4:30, 7: 15 
r---------~-~ 
page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 10, 1995 
• Cou..EGE BASKHBAU. 


Purdue clinches share of Big Ten title 
Associated Press 

Cuonzo Martin scored 26 points and keyed a second-half surge as No. 14 Purdue defeated Minnesota 72-59 Thursday night and clinched at least a share of the Big Ten title. 
Purdue (23-6, 14-3), which won its seventh straight game, has a one-game lead over Michigan State with one game to go in conference play. 
Michigan State is at home against Wisconsin on Saturday, while the Boilermakers host Michigan. 
Martin, the Big Ten Player of the Week after consecutive 29-point games against Iowa and Illinois, got off to a slow start. 
The senior forward suffered through a 5-for-14 first half, but still scored 14 points. He had three 3-pointers in the first half, however, including one with six seconds left to tie the game 35-35. 
Martin scored seven straight points for Purdue midway through the second half as the Boilermakers forged a 47-41 lead and began to break the game open. 
Minnesota (19-10, 10-7) led by as many as nine points in the first half. 
Senior Voshon Lenard, playing his last regular-season game at Williams Arena, led the Gophers with 17 points. Jayson Walton, another senior, had 16 points and 10 rebounds. 
Matt Waddell added 15 points for Purdue. 
No. 20 Alabama 55, Tennessee 43 
Jamal Faulkner had 15 points and No. 20 Alabama led all the way in downing deliberate Tennessee 55-43 in the Southeastern Conference tournament Thursday night. 
The Crimson Tide (21-8) saw a 9-point first-half lead dwindle to 26-24 when Alico Dunk converted a three-point play with 15:56 remaining, but the Vols (11­
16) never were able to get closer. 
The victory sends th!l Crimson Tide into a Friday night quarterfinal game against Georgia. In other first-round games earlier Thursday Vanderbilt crushed Louisiana State 85-61 to draw fifth-ranked Arkansas, and Auburn hammered South Carolina 81-66, setting up a test against No. 3 Kentucky, which won its 37th SEC title in the regular sea­son. 
Tennessee played a deliberate style throughout the game, content to run the shot clock down on each possession to keep the score down. 
Antonio McDyess was the only other Alabama player in double figures, scor­ing 12 points and grabbing 11 rebounds. 
Kevin Whitted led Tennessee with 16 points and Steve Hamer added 10. 
The Tide took a 21-12 lead on a bas­ket by Jason Caffey with 3:13 left in the first half. Tennessee cut the halftime margin to 21-17 on a 3-point basket by Shane Williams and a layup by Hamer. 
After Dunk cut the lead to 26-24, McDyess and Whitted swapped baskets before a baskets by Faulkner and McDyess and free throws by Caffey stretched the lead to 34-26. 
Tennessee never got within 5 points the rest of the way, with Alabama stretching its lead to 47-33 on Faulker's third 3-pointer of the game with 5:27 remaining. 
The opening round finale later Friday night matched Florida and Mississippi. 

•NBA 
Curry, Mourning lead Hornets to victory 
Associated Press the 3-point line. Larry Johnson Cleveland Cavaliers 100-98 24 points. Tyrone Hill battled Guard James Robinson came 
added 21 points and eight as­Thursday night. Rodman on even terms on the off the bench to score 16 points, 
Alonzo Mourning scored 35 sists for the Hornets. The Spurs, masters of the boards all night and finished and forward Cliff Robinson points and Dell Curry connected Seattle was led by Kendall close game, won for the ninth with 17 points and 10 re­added 14 for Portland, which on three key 3-pointers in the Gill with 23 points and 11 re­time in the last 10 games over­bounds. made eight 3-point shots. final four minutes to lead the bounds. Gary Payton and Detlef all and for the ninth con­The Cavs trailed by as many The Heat was paced by Glen Charlotte Hornets over the Schrempf each scored 20 for secutive time in games decided as 11 in the third quarter and Rice and Billy Owens with 16 Seattle SuperSonics 112-99 the Sonics. by three points or less. were still behind 84-78 early in points apiece. Thursday night. Seattle erased a 13-point Cleveland has lost five of its the fourth before Brandon con­Miami trailed 76-75 before 
The Hornets, who ended the Charlotte lead and went ahead last six games. verted a three-point play to James Robinson made two 3­game with a 20-9 run, posted for the first time since the early David Robinson scored 26 start a 16-4 flurry that put pointers and Cliff Robinson their first home victory over minutes of the game on Gill's points and Elliott 19 for the Cleveland ahead 94-88 with made another to help Portland Seattle in more than two years. dunk to make it 71-70 with Spurs. Dennis Rodman grabbed 4:12 left. Danny Ferry capped to a 91-79lead with 4:13 left. The Sonics lost for the fourth 4:21 left in the third quarter. only 10 rebounds, nearly eight the surge with a 3-pointer. Led by Rice, Miami pulled to time in six games. After that, neither team was under his average, but got the Robinson answered with a 93-90 with 1:41 left, but Terry 
Charlotte was protecting a able to take control of the game biggest one of the game by run­dunk and a short jumper, mak­Porter helped seal the win for 92-90 lead with 4:25 left when and the lead changed hands ning down Terrell Brandon's ing it a one-point game, and the Portland, knocking down a pair Muggsy Bogues hit a jumper several times until Curry took missed 20-foot shot with one Spurs tied it for the last time at of free throws with 1:07 left to from the corner and Curry fol­over. second left. 98 on Robinson's two foul shots make it a 97-90 game. lowed with a 3-pointer to give The Sonics had won five of After a timeout, the Spurs' with 23.1 seconds to go. Miami fought back from a 53­the Hornets a seven-point lead. the seven games against Doc Rivers inbounded the ball 46 halftime deficit to take a 66­
After Shawn Kemp hit two Charlotte in the Hornets' build­from halfcourt, finding Elliott Trail Blazers 99, Heat 90 65 lead on a three-point play by free throws, Mourning scored ing. open near the right side of the Bimbo Coles with 37 seconds and Curry connected on his basket after he spun away from Otis Thorpe had his highest left in the third quarter. fifth and sixth treys of the night Spurs 100, Cavaliers 98 Cleveland's Chris Mills near the point total as a member of the The lead was short-lived, to give the Hornets a 105-94 foul line. Elliott then took Trail Blazers, getting 22 points though. Thorpe hit a pair of lead with 2:00 to play. Sean Elliott got free on an in­Rivers' pass and banked in the as Portland kept up its mastery free throws and James 
Mourning also grabbed 13 bounds play with one second winning basket as the horn of the Miami Heat with a 99-90 Robinson converted a steal into 
rebounds. Curry finished with left and scored the winning sounded. victory Thursday night. a layup as Portland opened a 22 points, including 18 on his layup at the buzzer as the San Brandon, who missed his first The Blazers ran their career 69-66 lead after three quarters. 6-of-12 shooting from outside Antonio Spurs beat the seven shots, led the Cavs with record against Miami to 14-1. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES  Lost: A blue Tl-81 calculator in the  WANTED  FREELANCE GRAPHIC ARTIST, work at home -Cartoon background  LABRADOR PUPS • 8 WKS. AKC-OFA, MALES. 289-8227.  CONGRATULATIONS!!!II!II!  
Nieuwland computer lab on Sunday  helpful-Call219-259-8822.  2­ Larry, we've been waiting two and a  
DO EUROPE  around 3pm. X3214  Please call Josh  Female Roomate -Spring Smster 96. House 7 min walk from  Oakhill Condos. 3-levels wllower walkout, 3 BAS,  half years for this and now it has happened. Congratulations from us  
$229 anytime!  DeBartolo. Call Jeannnine @ 289­ CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING •  3 Baths -$99,900  all.  
•• FREE Brochure••  9420  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  2 Brs, 2 Baths, spiral staircase  
Also cheap fares worldwide  FOUND -Baseball cap @ the  on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ & garage -$78,500  CONGRATULATIONS!!!!!!!!  
AIRHITCH 1-800-326-2009  Grotto on Fri. 3/3. Can be claimed  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  Each unit includes: fireplace,  
at 227 Cushing.  Job Opening  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  appliances, pool & clubhouse  HEY SENIORS:  
~  $$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  Debate Coach Experience Necessary  Seasonal and full-time employment available. No experience neces- Coldwell Banker-277-8000 Ruth Ann Smith-288-8875  I need 2 extra tickets for graduation.  
Are you going to read those things  FOUND: A LARGE SET OF KEYS  Send Resume 302 La Fortune  sary. For more information cal 1­ If you need only 2, would you con- 
again? I think not. 2323-2342  WITH A CANADA KEYCHAIN AND  By March 10  206-634-0468 ext. C55844  Clarion Car Stereo-AM/FM/Cass  sider ordering 4 and giving me the  
Pandora's Bks ND Ave & Howard  AWALT DISNEY WORLD KEY  Detachable Face; High Power;  other pair? ND Women: will make it  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL "OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60, FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ CHAIN WITH THE NAME JIM AT STEPAN AFTER THE TRACY CHAPMAN SHOW. THE KEYS ARE NOW AT THE LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK  Job Opening Debate Coach Experience Necessary Send Resume 302 La Fortune  FOR RENT BEAUTIFUL 4-bedroom house for rent. Prefer female roommates.  CD Changer Ready; Top of the Line; 1 yr old. $200. Call1-8817.I PERSONALI  worth your while. ND Men: will be very appreciative. Steve 634-1644. Thanks. God save the horn players. CB Horns:  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ FOUND: man's watch with a  by March 10  $225 + util. Call Natalie 291-5466.  Ryan, you suck. Get a watch!  Tour will rock. Thanks for putting  

NEE, 219-773-2034. 
KEYBOARD CREATIONS WORD PROCESSING SERVICES/ 7 DAYS A WEEK/CALL 277-8518 
ILOST&FOUNDI 
Somebody accidentally picked up the wrong black sportcoat at the Grace/Fianner SYR last Fri. My ID is in the inside pocket please return to Calvin Nelson 214Grace 4-1598 black leather band and the words "Philadelphia Varoic." To identify, call Jen @ 4962 

LOST: gold hoop earring on Tuesday( Somewhere between 101 DBT and 3rd floor Nieuwland)--i:all Kelley x3427 
LOST: A LONG BLACK 
WOMAN'S PERRY ELLIS COAT 
AT SR. BAR ON FRI. FEB. 10 
(FISHER-WALSH DANCE) "PLEASE CALL CINDY AT 
273-5399 WITH ANY INFO.­
REWARDII!II 
Spring Break/Summer Jobs Learn while you earn! $325/week Citizen's Action Coalition is hiring for our entry level campaign posi­lions. Full/Part time, Travel, excel­lent office atmosphere. Hours 2-1 0, M-F, call for appt. 232-7905 
Get paid to see movies! Part time job opportunity to work with a major Hollywood studio! Visit Career & Placement Services at Hesburgh Library for more info. Application deadline is April15. 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAMPUS 232-2595 
FOR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered at $85,900. First floor location. Finished basement with full lavale­ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on ground level. Lease back to owner through May, 1995. Call (616)946-0700. 

Need a job for next year??? Student Activities is now accepting applications for 95-96 for: 
LaFortune Building Managers 
Stepan Center Managers 
Information Desk Attendants 
Gorch Games Room 
Building Set Up Crew 24 Hr. Lounge Monitors Ballroom Monitors Irish Express Workers Office Assistants Applications in Student Activities, 315 LaFortune.Deadline March 10. 
up with me. Long live the first realm of divinity. Your horn goddess. 
Hey Action, spread em' wide! 
Puff ... drug dependency or impoten­cy? you decide 
Kidde, 
Congrats on the two weeks thing. Wish I could be there, wait, I am!! 
-An lllinios Farmer 
L5C2, 

Brother wordprocessor for sale.  DOYOU SMOKE  You are doing better.  Instead of  
Found: A gold Bulova quartz watch  FOUND: WOMAN'S RING IN  NEED RIDE TO PENNSTATE OR  Separate monitor and 3.5" floppy  CAMEL CIGARETIES?  sniffing for truffles in bed, you now  
in the D6 parking lot. Call Nicky at  DEBARTOLO. CALL 4-2954 TO  NEAR FOR SPRING BREAK. GAS  disk drive included. Best offer. Call  IF SO, PLEASE CALL  have found a rabbit.  
x2851  IDENTIFY.  TOLLS (JIM X2303)  Jason at x 1852  X2954  Finger  

Friday, March 10, 1995 
West 
continued from page 16 
hurlers should be able to make do without her. Terri Kobata is 3-0 with a 0.39 earned run average, and has given up only ten hits all season. 
"Terri has tremendous wrists," Miller said. "She has great spin, and her ball moves really well. She can miss as far as target location, and get away with it. It's not necessarily her speed. She doesn't pitch hard­er than the majority of pitchers we face. It's movement." 
Kobata, Brandenburger, Kelly Nichols, and Joy Battersby have a combined ERA of 1.34. 
Defensively, the Irish are starting to jell. With inexperi­enced players in key positions, they struggled in fall tourna­ments. But first sacker Andy Keys, shortstop Meghan Murray, and center fielder Jennifer Giampaolo have fallen 
HAPPf 21ST BIRJHDAY MIKE! 
Love, Mom& Dad, Chris, Mittens and Tim 

The Observer· SPORTS 
into place, and the defense has meshed as a unit. 
"In the fall we struggled at the NIT tourney. We were kicked around. It was a rude awakening that defense would not come easily. We had to work at it." And they did. During the first two tourna­ments of the year, Notre Dame's defense has been solid, limiting the opposition to 14 runs in seven games. 
Offensively, Miller needs the Irish to be aggressive. The club will look to senior catcher Sara Hayes and Meghan Murray to set the tone. Hayes is batting .421, and Murray an even .300. Liz Perkins is hitting .304, but her production fell off last weekend after a hot start at the Arizona State Tournament to open the year. 

....-----------------,r----------, 
EngagementRings 10%-15% OFF! Official Wholesale Price List! 

S.A. Peck & Co. 55 E. 'Kbshington, Chicago, IL 60602 
For a Free 32-Page Color Catalog 1011-Fne (800) 922-0090 FAX (312) 977-0248 
page 11 
• SLED DoG RACING 


Mushers catching up with leader in Iditarod 
Associated Press 

IDITAROD, Alaska 
More than a dozen well-rest­ed mushers in the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race steadily gained ground Thursday on frontrunner Doug Swingley, who blasted way ahead of the pack before taking his required 24-hour layover in this aban­doned gold-rush community. 
While Swingley gave his 14­dog team some time ofT, the 90­mile stretch of trail between Ophir and Iditarod got plenty 
If you see Sports happening, CaII 

The Observer 
Internet Catalog at bttp: llwww.saptck.com/sapeck 
at 631-5323 
crowded. 
Tim Osmar, who took his mandatory layover miles back in McGrath, was first among the pack into Ophir, arriving at 
5:22 a.m. Alaska time and de­parting three minutes later. 
Leaving Ophir within a half­hour of Osmar were Bill Cotter and Dee Dee Jonrowe, both of· whom took their 24-hour lay­overs at Takotna. 
After the first three came de­fending champion Martin Buser, Charlie Boulding, five­time winner Rick Swenson, last year's runner--up Rick Mackey, 1993 winner Jeff King and Vern Halter. 
Most of the top mushers joined Cotter and Jonrowe for their layovers at Takotna, where some commented that Swingley's hard push to Iditarod was a mistake. 
Swingley himself wasn't sure. "Maybe at the end we'll find out it was," he told KNOM ra-

r...,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;:~----.J dio. "It wouldn't be fun if you 
didn't make one or two mis­takes. The teams from Osmar to

P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N D R E T I R EM EN T I N V EST I N G 
Halter were all within about two hours of each other out of Ophir. All are expected into Iditarod by early Thursday evening. 
Iditarod, the ghost town that give the race its name, is about 600 miles from the finish line in Nome. 

F 
or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, As the nation's largest retirement system, we we recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are offer a wide range of allocation choices-from tax-deferred annuities designed to help build TIAA's traditional annuity, with its guarantees of additional assets-money that can help make the principal and interest, to the seven diversified difference between living and living well after your investment accounts of CREF's variable annuity. working years are over. What's more, our expenses are very low, 0 which 
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from means more ofyour money goes toward improving your salary on a pre-tax basis. That lowers your your future financial health. current taxable income, so you start saving on taxes To find out more, call our planning specialists at right away. What's more, any earnings on your 1 800 842-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA 
SRAs are also tax-deferred until you receive them information kit, plus a free slide-calculator that 
as income. That can make a big difference in how shows you how much SRAs can lower your taxes. 
painful your tax bill is every year. Call today-it couldn't hurt. 




Ensuring the future for those who shape it.sM 
0 S1tnuJ11rtJ c?• Pt~w :, /n,llll'tlllf( Rt~lti~l/ Ana(y,,;.,, 1994; Lipp~r Analytical Services, Inc., Lipptr-/Jirrr/ttr.l 'Ana(vtim/ Dtlltl, 1994 (Quarterly). CREF certificates are distributed by TIAA·CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call I 800-842-2733, ext. 5509 for a CREF prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, March 10, 1995 
• LACROSSE 


Irish home after trip East 
By DAVID TREACY 
SportS Writer 
The lacrosse team has an ex­citing Spring Break planned. 
While the Bahamas are not in the picture for the squad, they will be traveling away from warm and sunny South Bend, at least for a little while. 
On Sunday and Tuesday, the team will play in exotic Balti­more, Maryland, against the Retrievers of the University of Maryland-Baltimore County, and the Princeton Tigers. 
Of course, all good things must come to an end. 
On Sunday March 19, the Irish will be back on campus to face the Villanova Wildcats. 
The team enters next week's busy schedule coming off a close contest against the Tarheels of North Carolina. While a loss is a loss, the Irish stayed in the game against the Tarheels, trailing 9-8 with ten minutes to play. Unfortunately, 

Bed'n'Breakfast 
Registry 
Rooms in private homes for: 
JPW, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOT­BALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION and orher special ND·SMC events (219) 291-7153 


the Tarheel squad pulled out the game, winning 11-8. 
"We're not satisfied with coming close to North Carolina. But, we went down to Chapel Hill and played well, and had several opportunities to pull out the game. We just didn't capi­talize on those chances," Coach Kevin Corrigan remarked. 
The Retrievers are a young squad who come into the game with a 1-1 record. "They are a well coached, highly disciplined team that executes," Corrigan said. The game plan the UMBC team will employ against the Irish is to try and keep it as slow a game as possible. "They lull you to sleep," stated Corri­gan. 
This game plan should go right down Notre Dame's alley. A strong defensive club, the Irish are more concerned with a ball-control offense than run­and-gun lacrosse. With Randy Colley and Will Sutton coming off two straight strong games, the Irish could have the Re­trievers eating out of their 

VILLANOVA UNIYERSrTY 

SUMMER 
SESSIONS '95 
GRADUATE and UNDERGRADUATE COURSES \ ~ DAY and EVENING ClASSES 
~~ -.:-...,r-~USINESS 
• ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS 
COUNSELING THE ARTS NURSING 

COMPUTER SCIENCE NATURAL SCIENCE SOCIAL SCIENCES 
EDUCATION 
HUMANITIES 
LANGUAGES 
hands. 
Princeton, the defending NCAA tournament champions, will again provide the Irish with an opportunity to compete against a top ten team. Ranked fourth in the preseason, the Tigers have lost once already this year to a strong Johns­Hopkins squad. Of course, Corrigan and the Irish haven't had time to worry about this one yet, with the Retrievers scratching at the door. 
Finally, the trip back to South Bend will find the squad up against Villanova, which will be their first home game of the season. The game will start a five match home streak for the team. 
Coach Corrigan is ready for Notre Dame to kick the habit of losing close games. "We're do­ing several things well every game. We just haven't put it all together yet," said Corrigan. 
These three games should give the Irish an opportunity to improve their record, if not their tans. 

Photo Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Junior defenseman Mike Iorio will help the Irish attempt to shut down defending champion Princeton on Tuesday. 
PERSONAL ASSISTAN"Tj 
PRESIDENT OF GROWING COMPANY SEEKING AN ENERGETIC, CHRISTIAN INDNIDVAL FOR FULL TIME POSITION OF 
PERSONAL ASSISTANT. INDNIDVAL SHOULD HAVE DEGREE OR EQVNALENT EXPERIENCE IN THE FOLLOWING AREAS: 
*LIBRARY SCIENCE 
*PHYSICAL FITNESS 
*VEGETARIAN COOKING 
SALARY IS NEGOTIABLE. PLEASE SEND YOUR RESUME TO 
D.W. WALLCOVERING 514 W. MILL STREET (18TH RD.) 
CULVER, INDIANA 46511 ATT: CHRISTINA BALABAN 
·Presents the Largest Theatre Complex in the Mishawaka & South Bend Areal 




~MOVIES 10 
Edison at Hickory 254-9685 
Memorabilia of••• 
RICK MIRER ·MICHAEL JORDAN ROCKET ISMAIL· LARRY BIRD 
Cornplmenla of 
The Sports Section and Sports Cards & Collectibles Mel s.Mc:e llhn::handl.e 

FREE 20 oz. Soft Drink Coupon With Every Paid Admission Each Day Fri. 3117, SaL 3118 & Sun. 311i ecx.n.yot 
Plc-A~ell ~ 
Station ' ' Grape at Edison, Mishawaka 
VILLANOVA UNIVERSITYI Villanova, PA 19085-1696I Please matl me acurrenl Summet Bullettn 

I Name ------------------­1I Address 
I C'lyiSialeiZ'P li]) I 
-------------------~ 


Friday, March 1 0, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS 
• BIG EAST BASKETBALL 
Panthers upset Red Storm 
Associated Pross bench to score a career-high 28 points, 17 in the second half. The 6-foot-4 guard was 5-for-8 
Andre Aldridge hit four free from 3-point range, where Pitt throws in the final 1:17 and fin­hit 11 of 26. 
ished with 19 points as 
The victory, which snapped a Pittsburgh upset St. John's 74­five-game losing streak in the 71 Thursday night in the first conference tournament, match­
round of the Big East es Pitt against No. 6 
Conference tournament. 
Connecticut (23-3), the regular­season champion and top seed 
Jason Maile, a sophomore 
in the tournament, in the sec­who averaged 4.2 points last ond half of Friday's quarter-fi­
year, came off the Panthers 
nal doubleheader. 

SYRACUSE ABROA.D 
There's a world 
beyond your campus. 
• 
Earn academic credits by taking classes at the S.U. center or at British universities 

• 
The only foreign language you'll have to know is English 

• 
Travel throughout England and share a flat with other students 

• 
Internships are available 

• 
Financial aid also available 


London, England 
Call now for more information. Su also bas Centers in Italy, Spain. France, and Zimbabwe. 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
DIVISION OF INTERNA110NAL PROGRAMS ABROAD •119 EucldAvenue, Syracuse, New York 13244--4170 1-BQ0-235-3472 • 315-443-3471 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 
Jaime Peterson was Pitt's only other double-figure scorer with 11 points. 
James Scott's 27 points, which came on 10-for-17 from the floor, topped the Red Storm (14-13) which will play in the NIT. Zendon Hamilton was next with 17. 
Felipe Lopez, St. John's high­ly-regarded freshman, finished with a season-low 8 points as he shot just 3-for-10. 
After Orlando Antigua's 3­point goal gave the Panthers a 69-68 lead with 2:12 to play, Scott hit the front end of a 1­and-1 for a 69-69 deadlock with 1:50 to play. 
Peterson's first of a 1-and-1 put Pitt on top for good, 70-69, with 1:34 left. Aldridge hit his first pair of foul shots with 1:17 to go to increase the margin to 72-69. 
Lopez then scored his only basket of the half with 4.4 sec­onds to go to make it 72-71. Roshown McLeod of St. John's fouled Aldrdige on the in­bounds play with with 1.6 to go, and Aldridge his two shots for the final victory margin. 
I Photo counesy of BIG EAST 

Orlando Antigua's late three-pointer helped Pittsburgh upset St. John's last night in the first round of the Big East tournament 

Texas 
continued from page 16 
in a double-header on Wednesday and a single game on Thursday. The Irish finish their stay in the Lone Star State Friday, with a game against Texas-San Antonio. 
"In order to do well with this many games," Mainieri says. "We're going to have to estab­lish a solid starting rotation." 
That rotation will be led by sophomore right-hander Darin Schmalz (1-1). 
"Darin has had two good games and one great start," ac­cording to Mainieri. Schmalz went eight innings against Washington State last weekend, giving up four hits and one earned run in earning his first win of the season. 

Freshman Christian Parker, who got his first collegiate win against seventeenth-ranked Nevada, will likely face Baylor. Senior Craig Allen will start 
NG 
Morris Civic Auditorium March 22 

Wednesday @ Bpm 
A
~ 't o e :1 
against Nebraska and sopho­more Larry Mohs (0-1, one save) will pitch in the champi­onship game. 
The resurgence of sophomore Scott Sollman means that the offensive fire-power for the Irish will likely be coming from the outfield. Sollman started out slow in California, but re­deemed himself in Washington, going 6-for-13 with a double, triple and seven runs scored. 
"Scott really turned it up last weekend," Mainieri said. "I think he was off to a slow start after missing fall practice with football, but now we are count­ing on him to set the table for the big guys." 
The big guys for the Irish thus far have been juniors Hyan Topham and Rowan Richards. Both have two home runs and 12 RBI, and Richards leads the team with a .522 batting aver­age. 
The back injury to senior cap­tain Bob Lisanti has given start­ing catching duties to junior George Restovich. The Irish have won all four games Restovich has started, and Mainieri calls him "a big lift" in the line-up, batting between Topham and Richards . 
Price hdudt:s toU>d 01> ot1ot• from ~' tnns­frrs lltld 7nl!lthotrlocconmodtJtJonJ I:JIJKd on quod 
~.Taxa•enotlrdJdtd. 

~ Couna1 Travel
Tickets at the usual outlets or 

I 1153 N. Deorbom, 2nd Floor I Chic~ IL 60610
CHARGE-BY-PHONE: 

311•9:.1•0585 
Call for availability, prices, and other Spring Break destinations. 
219-235-9190 


----~--~-----------~­
Friday, March 1 0, 1995

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS 
• HOCKEY 




Bowling Green presents first -round challenge 
By MICHAEL DAY 
Sports Writer 
The much anticipated moment has finally arrived. 
Ready or not, the CCHA playoffs are here, and the Notre Dame hock­ey team will attempt to resurrect a losing season this weekend when they travel to play second place Bowling Green. 
Face-off for the first game of the best of three series is tonight at 7 
p.m. at BGSU Ice Arena. The No. 9 seeded Irish enter the matchup hav­ing won five of their last 10 games while playing their best hockey of the season. 
"The effort has been there all sea­son, but it is finally starting to pay off," said senior right wing Jeff Hassleman. "Over the last half of the season, we've been competitive in every game and have had plenty of opportunities." 
Upsetting the 23-10-2 (18-7-2 in the CCHA) Falcons won't be easy. With an average of 5.26 goals per contest, Bowling Green boasts one of the top offenses in the country. Center Brian Holzinger finished sec­ond in the CCHA with 63 points and is considered to be one of the favorites for the Hobey Baker Award. 
Right wing Mike Johnson (45 points), left wing Tom Glantz (32), and right wing Curtis Fry (43) are also a major reason for the Falcons' success at the offensive end. 
Defensively, Kelly Perrault (45 points) is considered one of the best at his position, and goaltender Will Clarke (3.14 Goals Against Average) has been outstanding since earning the starting position at midseason. 
"They are tough to match up with because they have so many weapons," said Irish defenseman Justin Theel. "But if we play our brand of hockey, it should be a pretty even series." 
Prior to last weekend's below aver­
age performance against Illinois­
Chicago and Western Michigan, 
Notre Dame had made significant 
strides at the offensive end. Junior 
center Jamie Ling (41 points) and sophomore right wing Tim Harberts (19 goals, 13 assists) have been solid all season, but the improved play of junior left wing Jamie Moreshead (25 points) and sophomore left wing Terry Lorenz (27 Points) has been the key to the Irish's second half surge. 
Lorenz has been Notre Dame's leading scorer over the last eight games, recording six goals and eight assists during that span. By scoring 11 points in his last eight games, Moreshead set a career high in both assists and total points. 
The entire defense has been solid over the last eight games, but one player sticks out above the rest. Freshman goaltender Matt Eisler has limited opponents to jusi 2.71 goals per game over his last eight games and has raised his save percentage to .869 for the season. 
"He seems to be coming up with more and more sensational saves every game," said head coach Ric Schafer. "The team has a lot of con­fidence in him at this point in the season." 


The Observer/ Brian Hardy 

Goaltender Matt Eisler will have toget hot if the Irish expect to win in the first round of the CCHA playoffs. 
4 Gxn~ToCAILTI-ElimE 




·-------------------------· I ·-------------------------· I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
Any Large 14" Pizza for onjr, $5 Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 
I I I I
The Best Pizza at The Best rice Now, That's a Deal!
I I I I
Call The Huddle At 1-6902 Cal/1-6902
I I I I I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115 COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115
I I I I

·-------------------------· I ·-------------------------·I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
2 Large 14" Unlimited Toppin~ Pizzas You p,et 2 Large 14" 1 item 
I I I I
and a 2/iter Coke Product On y $10 izzas ;;or Only $9 
I I I I
Calll-6902 Ca 11-6902 
I I I I I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115 COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/115
I I I I 

·-------------------------· ·-------------------------· 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competiors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 




IT'S A HIT! 
19 DAYS 
until Notre Dame Baseball's home season opener ­

L\, 
March 29! 

BACK BY POPULAR DEMAND! 
SUBWAY's A.1. Steak &Cheese 
For alimited time only 


29  BOWLING GREEN  4:00p.m.  
30  CINCINNATI  4:00p.m.  
APRIL  
1  BUTLER (2)  12:00 p.m.  
2  BUTLER (2)  12:00 p.m.  
4  INDIANA STATE  4:00p.m.  
5  CHICAGO STATE  7:00p.m.  
7  WISC.-MILWAUKEE  5:00p.m.  
8  WISC.-MILWAUKEE (2)  12:00 p.m.  
9  WISC.-MILWAUKEE  12:00 p.m.  
11  ILLINOIS  5:00p.m.  
15  DETROIT (2)  12:00 p.m.  
18  DUQUESNE (2)  5:00p.m.  
19  PURDUE  7:00p.m.  
20  VALPARAISO  7:00p.m.  
22  ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2)  12:00 p.m.  
23  ILLINOIS-CHICAGO (2)  12:00 p.m.  
25  ALABAMA  7:00p.m.  
26  ALABAMA  5:00p.m.  
27  EASTERN ILLINOIS  5:00p.m.  
MAY  
5  NORTHEASTERN ILLINOIS  7:00p.m.  

MARCH 
.__::••t:. 
Friday, March 10, 1995 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIRRORIAND HUY NGOC PHAN CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

•
! HAVE B«N of~S'R, viN"G YOV C.OVIJ) 1/AI/6 TO(J) 116 
'{OJ AND N(!fo<:,U> T/rlrr -TNIIT Yov ~R£ Lf: F ­
:r M"'rJ P._.'GHT ·llltNCliClL Y C.HAI.LE N GEl> , 

'(ov SoHETi~£.s Do 'T'H1"rJGJ 1 
iu A ~IJ6£R WAY... Yov l<fiiOw... -.'­
vSioJG·.. /t.._ '~ 
BILL WATTERSON 

l'\..L MC>I't. 1\\-ID W\\11'\'C. A"IJ I 1'-lQ\\~\) Sl-It. \.\1>-\) TO ARGI.lE ·' l'LL GEl" 11'1 1\-\E. W~i .' 11-\1\--l!(.A~ \1. llL GET 11'1 TI<:OJ~\.E! l'LL 
IDR A~()Jt{\) I '(Q\) WO\-I'T H~VE 
\ 
A 1.\0ME.\·I"IS 'EAC£ \~ '«JV MA~E ME. T\JR\-1 crf 11\E. 1'1 .' 
·.l.:~~~ ,:~r~x·r:~v·: ·'. iP'II OF INTEREST .w 

• A Graduate Irish Studies Conference will be held in the Center for Continuing Education on March tO, 11. and 12th. Graduate students from the U.S. and Ireland will present their research. Keynote addresses include Clair Will: "Women in Irish Studies, Ireland in Feminist Theory," Friday at 12:15; David Uoyd: "Irish Studies in the Post Colonial Frame," Friday at 4:30; Seamus Deane: "Unreal Country: Defining a Territory." Saturday at 12:15; Poetry Reading by Paul Muldoon, Saturday at 7:30; Performance ofW.B. Yeat's Purgatory at 9:00, Friday, ETS Theater, CCE. These events are sponsored by the GSU. 
:--.''.'f~:k:· 


DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
0
,.. 


YOUR PERFORMANCE THIS g I WORKED ON T~E 
IT'S EXCELLENT. I GET
~ 
u

YEAR WAS GOOD, BUT ~ 
TASKS YOU ASSIGNED. 
A BONUS FOR KEE.PING
.!:
"" 

YOU WORKED ON TASK:, ~ 
WHAT'S THAT SAY 
;• SALARIES LOW. 
2

THAT AREN'T IMPORTANT. ~ :1 
., HAVE YOU SEEN ANY 

ABOUT YOUR PERFORM­
THEF\EFORE YOU GET A ~ ~ 
ANCE.? 
"' ~ 



·--..--....
TINY ~AIS~ 
" 

~--~~~~U---------~nL-------------~~--~~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Handily 51 Cremona subdues product
1 Lie poolside 25 Newly arrived 52 Pulitzer-winning5 Love of Lucy 
28 Pros' foes writer Sheehan 9Author-­
29 Handel opera 53 CompatriotGallant 30 Leaf 54 Neighbor of 14 Anderson of TV 31 Big sandwich Nigeriasitcoms name 55 Where water 

15 Nerve Impulse 34 Niven film of turned to wine 
conduit 
1937 

58 Rend 16Shelley's 
38 British verb 57 On, as"Adonals," e.g. 

ending 

medication 11 Faulkner's 39 Limerick, e.g. 
58 Skirt"Req,ulem for 

40Zenoof­
59 Canadian(Greek logician) 

baseballer18 About: Abbr. 41 Like a fair lass 
19 Being male or 42 Promoter of DOWN
female rooster fights 20 Rolling Stones 44 Tipsy 1 Spill the beans album of 1968 45 Blacken 
2 Top-of-the-line 23 Word with coin 48 Hemingway 
3 Comfy or time memoir 

4 Caribbean capital 
11 Clothing tag 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
name 1 Live and breathe 25 Skywalker, e.g. 41 A B vitamin 47 Bit of wampum 
7 Soak up 28 Terrorists' tools 42 Pincers 48 "A Clockwork 
1 Personified Orange"27 Kind of curve 43 Big galoot 

1 Smokehouse droogleflavoring 28 Affected 44 Sultan Qabus 
49 Strike 10 Seal hunters 30 Hoedown bin Said, e.g. 

50 Neophyte11 Nettles 31 Exploit 45 Adhere 

51 --Bakr (first12"-itl" 32 Fitting phrase 48 City on the caliph of ("Eureka!") ending Skunk River Mecca) t3 Baseball exec 33 All-powerful one Thrift 35 Not fixed 
Get answers to any three clues

21 Star of "The 36 1966 hit "Walk 
Greatest" Away-" by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420. 5656 (75e each minute).
37 Stage anew 




-
.. 

~~ --~~----------~ 
r------~-­
• 


SPORTS 

page 16 Friday, March 10,1995 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBALl 

Xavier's upset effort crushed 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Sports Writer 
And David put his hand in the bag and took out a stone and slung it. 
Last night he could not hit water if he was falling out of a boat. 
The top-seeded Notre Dame women's basketball team destroyed the eighth-seeded Musketeers of Xavier 83-52 to advance to the semifi­nals of the Midwestern Collegiate Conference tournament. 
~We're used to the pressure of being the number one seed in the MCC Tournament," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said of her team. "So I don't think that bothered us much. Right now we're just worried about taking one game at a time." 
After center Katryna Gaither's five footer to put the Irish up 7-6, they never looked back. Three minutes later they should have called it a game because it was over. 
The Musketeers were unable to han­dle the inside offense of Gaither and forward Carey Poor. Poor knocked down a game high 18 points and ripped down 10 rebounds. 
"Carey Poor had an outstanding game," McGraw said. "Xavier was concentrating so much on containing Gaither that this helped free Carey up." 
But this was not a two women show. The Irish team defense took over the game early and took the Musketeers out of it. The Irish used full court pressure to bewildered the Musketeers as they only shot a pathetic 19 for 61. 
"We played well defensively and that was a key to the game for us," McGraw explained. "We stayed ahead of them because of our defensive play. We wanted to put pressure on the ball. We put more fullcourt pressure on in this game than we have all season and I think that distracted them a little bit... 

Senior Letitia Bowen led the Irish with a game high 12 rebounds. Freshman guard Mollie Peirick paced the Irish with six assists, and fellow freshman Kari Hutchinson swiped a game high five steals. 
Although Beth Morgan did not start, she played for 16 minutes in the blowout and knocked down three of her four three-point shots. 
With the easy victory, the Irish were able to rest their starters for the MCC tournament semifinal game today. No Irish player played more than 26 min­utes. 

• SOHBJ\I..U. 
Irish swing west to face Aztecs, Rainbows 
BY NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
For most students spring break will either be spent tanning in the sun at some dreamy resort chic enough for James Bond, or being spoiled by Mom and Dad in the con­fines of home. Not so for twenty girls of the Notre Dame softball team. They will be under the sun, but they won't be working on their tan as they compete in California and at the Hawaii Tournament 
The Irish (5-2) have a pair ot doublehead­ers on Sunday and Monday. The former against gritty San Diego State, and the lat­ter against No. 4 ranked Cal State­Fullerton. 
"We're playing the best teams we've played so far," Coach Liz Miller said. And her Irish won't settle for the competition. " We want to beat those teams." 
Notre Dame will fly to Hawaii on Tuesday, practice on Wednesday, and then play in the Hawaii tournament which includes games against DePaul, Long Beach State, and Loyola Marymount. 
However, for Miller, the balmy conditions of California and Hawaii are not a day at the beach. "For many of the players on the team, this is their first trip to either place. The toughest challenge will be for them to know what is free time and when they need to get ready for a game. They need to avoid distractions." 
But when asked whether or not her club will avoid distractions, Miller responded with confidence. 
"The pitching staff has been coming along well the last two weekends. This will be the next step for them." 
Although junior Kara Brandenburger is recovering from tendonitis following arm surgery during the off-season, the Irish 
see WESTI page II 





• BASEBAll 

Irish look to extend streak 
Tournament to 

-
benefit ND 
alumni club in 
San Antonio 
By MEGAN McGRATH Spores Writer 
Like most of the campus, the Notre Dame baseball team is taking advantage of the upcom­ing spring break to flee the Indiana weather for a warmer climate. 
But instead of soaking up the rays in San Antonio, the Irish will be looking to extend their four game winning streak in the Notre Dame Spring Invitational and in games against Texas-Pan American and San Antonio. 

"There's no let up in the level of competition," says head coach Paul Mainieri. "All of the teams we are playing have challenged some strong com­petition and we're looking for eight tough ball games." 
The Notre Dame Spring Invitational is sponsored by the University, the Notre Dame Club of San Antonio and hosted at Municipal Stadium. It is the first year of the tournament, and the proceeds will help the San Antonio Club establish a local scholarship fund. 
The Irish open the Invitational this Saturday against George Washington, and then Sunday the squad takes on Baylor. While 
Mainieri is careful not to look past either squad, Monday's match-up against Nebraska could be the marquee game of the tournament. 
"Nebraska is a very tough team," Mainieri says. "They beat the number three team in the country, giving Oklahoma State their only loss." 
The Cornhuskers competed in the NCAA regionals last spring, and have one of the nation's top players in left fielder Darin Erstad. Mainieri believes that Erstad and leading pitcher Cody Winget could be high picks in the upcoming amateur· draft. 
After the tournament's cham­pionship on Tuesday, Notre Dame will play Texas-Pan Am 
see TEXAS/ page 13 


of note...
.. NOTRE DAME HOCKEY 
The women's tennis team hosts
The hockey team will face Bowling Green in 
Clemson tomorrow at the Eck
the first round of the CCHA tournament. 
Tennis Pavilion. 
see page 14 




