
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 72 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
By DOUGLAS METZ 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humanity hopes to break ground this spring with the foundation for a house in the Northeast neighborhood of South Bend. 
The walkways of campus have only just recently been cleared of this semester's first barrage of snow and already a group of students are looking forward to warmer climates­for the recipients of their chari­table home building efforts. It is not the beaehes of Caneun or a house on the coast, be it east or west.. that binds their antici­pation. 
On the contrary, Habit for Humanity participants' plans are selfless when held up to these material vices. 
Habitat for Humanity is an in­ternational organization that describes themselves as "an ecumenical grass-roots min­istry with the goal of eliminat­ing poverty housing." The organization relies on volunteer labor, donated materials as well as monetary donations to accomplish their projects. 
According to a brochure pub­lished by the St. Joseph County chapter of Habitat for Humanity, "[the) typical Habitat family has an income too high to qualify for some assistance but too low for con­ventional home financing." 
The tenants of Habitat hous­ing accept the responsibility of repaying the cost of the house over a fixed period of time. Their payments are then recy­cled into a rotating fund for future houses. No interest is 
Notre Dame's own Habitat chapter to start 

photo courtesy of Erica Quinn Justin Gaul, a Notre Dame sophomore, is seen here helping build a home this past summer in Eagle Butte, South Dakota. A Jimmy Carter work project, this Habit for Humanity home went up within five days on the Cheyenne River Indian Reservation. Notre Dame's own Habitat for Humanity chapter will operate separately 
Students warned of fraud By EDWARD IMBUS News Writer  
In response to a recent mass-mailing to students, the University Financial Aid Department has issued a warning to all students to treat companies offering financial aid information for a price with extreme suspicion. Director of Financial Aid Joseph Russo urged students to "proceed with extreme cau­tion" when considering to pay for a scholarship search organization, which he char­acterized as "typically very suspect." His statement was issued af­ter being informed of a mass­mailing to a large portion of the student body by the Academic Financial Program, a San Diego, California, based company offering to match students to "a number of scholarships, fellowships, and grants for most majors" for a fee of $39. The company stressed in its letters that it does not compile information on loans available to students, and "(s)ince these funds are not loans, they do not require repayment. Included with the letter was a "student profile form," ask­ing for various information such as a student's local and home address, educational goals, class rank, work expe­ 
see FRAUD/ page 8  


from the St. Joseph County chapter this spring for the first time. 
collected in the payments and no profit is made by the organi­zation. 
This is the first year that the Notre Dame chapter of Habitat for Humanity is acting indepen­dently of the St. Joseph County chapter. Previously campus ef­forts were pooled with the county chapter. 
Amy Vosburg, a board mem­ber of the Notre Dame chapter, described the chapters relation­ship with the county chapter with the envy that one would attribute to a great mentor. 
"We owe them so ·much... we could never do what we're doing now without them." 
Over the winter holiday the chapter managed to collect $1500 in donations from stu­dents, alumni and their fami­lies. 
They currently have a total of $5000 collected for the South Bend project. An additional $25,000 is required to complete the project, which includes ma­terials and labor, not solely cash. With only one fifth of the needed capital, Habitat for Humanity still plans to be dig­ging the foundation for the house as soon as the ground thaws. 

Erika Quinn, also a board member of the Notre Dame chapter, expects the additional funds to come with the publicity of the ground-breaking this spring. 
Habitat for Humanity will be holding a meeting centering on "outreach and awareness" this Thursday night at 8:00 in the esc. All are welcome and en­couraged to attend. 

Clinton puts forth agenda Search for next provost 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Clinton presented his agenda in a low-key, almost folksy way, frequently ad-Jibbing from his prepared speech and gesturing 
with a wave of his hands. 
In a speech that offered only a few new initia­tives, Clinton urged a national 

campaign to Clinton combat teen pregnancy. And, to cut down on illegal immigration, he pro­posed creation of a national data bank to help employers verify the identification of prospective workers. 
lie pledged to seek a raise in the minimum wage from the current $4.25 an hour, but shied from mentioning a specif­ic pay scale; GOP leaders oppose it. Clinton favors a boost to $5 over two years, aides said. 
Clinton said members of Congress have been on the job Jess than a month but already have earned what someone earning only the minimum wage makes in a year. 
"The plain fact Is, you can't make a living on $4.25 an hour, especially if you have kids to support," the president said. Hepublicans listened in silence. 
But Clinton drew cheers from both sides of the aisle when he laid down a challenge that he knew would be popular. 
"Let's give the folks at home something to cheer about," Clinton said, urging lawmakers to stop accepting gifts from lob­byists even before passing a bill that would outlaw them. "When Congress killed political reform last year," he said, "the lobbyists aetually stood in the halls of this sacred building and cheered." 
Drawing a veiled contrast with Gingrich, Clinton defended the national service program enacted by the Democratic Congress, saying, "We shouldn't stop it." AmeriCorps volunteers sat in the audience with Hillary Hodham Clinton, underlining the president's support. Gingrich has called the program gimmickry. 
Over and over, Clinton stressed conciliation and part­nership even as he offered his own program to cut taxes, shrink government and help the middle class. "Let us put aside partisanship, pettiness and pride," he said. 
"As we embark on a new course, let us put our country first, remembering that re-
U he State of the Union 
Key proposals in President 
Clinton's State of the Union address:  
0  Raise the minimum wagefrom $4.25, possibly to $5 over two years  
0  Anational campaign to combat teen pregnancy  
0  To curb illegal immigration, a national data bank to help employers verifyprospective employees' identities  
0  Tax deductions for education or training after high school  
0  Do not let Congress roll back the ban on assault  
weapons  

AP gardless of our party label, we are all Americans." 
Resurrecting the themes that got him elected, Clinton's speech was pitched to the mid­dle class voters who deserted Democrats in November. 
A centerpiece of Clinton's program is his "Middle Class Bill of Rights," offering tax breaks to families with chil­dren, deductions for college tuition and incentives for retirement savings. 

begins with committee 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
The long and difficult process of seleCting Notre Dame's next provost began Monday when the Academic Council of the 
University elected a six­member search com­mittee to make a rec­ommend a­tion on who should suc­


c e e d O'Meara Professor Timothy O'Meara. 
The search committee will consist of five elected faculty members and one student member of the Council, in accordance with the academic articles of the University. The committee will make a report to the Board of Trustees, which will ulitmately make the choice of the new provost. The provost is the University's sec­ond-ranking officer. 
The elected members of the committee are: Hafiz Atassi, professor of aerospace and me­chanical engineering and codi­rector of the Center for Applied Mathematics; Carolyn Callahan, associate professor of accountancy; Cornelius Delaney, professor of philoso­phy; Fernand Dutile, associate dean and professor of law; Stacy Kielbasa, a junior gov­ernment major and student government academic commis­sioner; and Andrew Sommese, Duncan professor of mathemat­ics and codirector of the Center for Applied Mathematics. University President Father Edward Malloy will chair the committee. 
In a January 13 letter to the faculty Malloy outlined his vision of O'Meara's successor. "The new Provost must have strong academic credentials as a teacher-scholar, must have significant administrative experience, and must personify and be sympathetic with Notre Dame as a Catholic university." Malloy said he wanted to make the search "as thorough, comprehensive, and fair as possible." 
The last such search in 1977­78 saw 84 people applied or be nominated for the job. Eight candidates were invited to campus for interviews by an elected faculty and student 
see PROVOST/ page 4 page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, January 25, 1995 


• INSIDE COLUMN 
How many 
Ginsuscome 

with that? 
There is nothing on TV again. That is, of course, nothing except for that rotten pasta maker infomercial that you've watched often enough to know you'd call the stupid 1-800 number if you could just get the free bagel maker. Heck, if anything deserves its own infomercial, it's the bagel maker. And you know the poor victim that buys the pasta maker with its four easy installments of $29.95 will use it once where­after it will spend the rest of its useless life delegated to the back of the top shelf of the coat closet right next to that Thighmaster that looked so great when Susan Sommers used it. 
Face it, your brain is fried by too much CNN, Home Shopping Club, the Weather Channel, and Melrose Place. You're lucky you have enough stamina to channel surf over to MTV and get some real brain exercise. And as you are seriously considering purchasing the pasta maker, you know it's time to flip. 
Oh look, it's another Green Day video. And wow, a Nirvana Unplugged video. Haven't seen one of those in a while. Must have been what? Ninety minutes ago? Golly, time flies, doesn't it? And this Unplugged video is just sooo different from that other one. Look, the guy in Soundgarden got a haircut. Looks like Michael Stipe did too. Haven't seen this 
R.E.M. video for ages either. Dance Michael, dance! Wow, bald guys make great rockstars. Oh... Got it! 120 Minutes made Prime Time! But what about my Yo! MTV Raps? My Headbangers Ball? 
Oh good. Commercial break. Isn't there something just plain wrong with these Pringles commercials? Reminiscent of those Mentos commercials aren't they? Where you're just not too sure if they're meant for American television and haven't been dubbed into English somewhere along the way. Nintendo commercial. Sega commercial. Nintendo commercial. Hmmm ... trend here? Hey, it's that Bugle Boy jeans commercial. And a Chic jeans commercial. Followed by a Bongo jeans commercial. Oh no, I suddenly find myself with an overwhelming desire to go out and buy myself some new jeans then come home and play (You make me feel like a) Natural Woman nonstop and make prank phone calls to guys and ask them what type of jeans they're wearing. 
MTV station ID time. Now we'd all agree that we're relatively intelligent people. Are they just weird or what? Slightly difficult to understand? Just a little too far out there? Oh look, it's Kennedy. She broke her arm. Too bad. Yeah right. Does MTV make it their goal in life to go out and find the most annoy­ing people in existence to VJ for them? Kurt Loder and MTV News. You hear it first? Hear what? Maybe we're just deaf. 
Ah, but wait. The Real World is on. Yes! Hopefully, it's one of those Real World Marathons, that pasta maker infomercial is still the only thing on and it's really beginning to look tempting-a very scary thought. Why, oh why is The Real World so totally entranc­ing? Are we that dissatisfied with our lives? There must be something else to do. 
Children of the MTV Generation, we have much to be afraid of. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Lab Tech David Ring Brandon Candura Melanie Laflin 
Production Sports Tara Grieshop Matt Casey Jackie Moser 
Tim Sherman Graphics 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Britain rebuilds Windsor to its natural state before the fire 
WINDSOR, England 
The modernists who wanted the royal family's favorite home rebuilt to reflect the late 20th century have lost out to the traditionalists glorying in Windsor Castle's historic past. Queen Elizabeth II has given fmal approval to a plan unveiled Tuesday that will restore all but three of the principal rooms damaged in the November 1992 

fire to their original early 19th century splendor. And new designs for those three rooms -the Queen's Private Chapel where the blaze started when a curtain caught fire and the Holbein and Stuart Rooms -will follow the castle's distinctive Gothic style, but with a "modern rein­terpretation." The Royal Institute of British Architects, which had argued for the monarchy to abandon the past, reiterated Tuesday that "it would have been happy for there to be some contemporary design incorporated." Prince Charles, whose aversion to most modern architec­ture has been highly publicized, and his father, Prince Philip, presided over the restoration committee, which considered six submissions by invited architects. John Tiltman, in charge of the overall reconstruction at the castle less than an hour's drive from Buckingham Palace, said the $64 million project was to be completed by the spring of 1998. Under Downes' plans, there will be a new octagon-shaped anteroom, built on the site of the Private Chapel. Eight wooden colunms, each carrying a fan of 25 curving oak ribs shaped like a giant plant, form the vault. The room will be lit by a roof lantern reminis­cent of a Tiffany lampshade. A new Private Chapel, on the site of the former Holbein Room, also has vaulted ceilings. The old Stuart Room will be used for a new staircase. St. George's Hall, where The Knights of the Garter, Britain's oldest order of chivalry, traditionally meet, will be restored to its original appearance. 
Russians shell Chechen positions 
GROZNY, Russia 
Russian troops unleashed fierce artillery barrages against Chechen positions in Grozny, while Chechnya's president said no more Russian POWs would be released until a cease-fire was signed. From their positions near Grozny's railway station, the Russians let loose an all­night barrage on the southern part of the city with artillery, mine launchers and mortars. The Chechens could only long for such weapons. "I wish I had a sniper's rifle," said one rebel fighter, Magomet Abdulgapov, after sneaking behind Russian lines to harass enemy positions. "I could have cracked them in the nose." 
Spain shocked by assassination 
MADRID, Spain 
Thousands of people stood in silent protest Tuesday outside town halls across Spain, stunned by an assassi­nation that reminded them that separatist violence still threatens the troubled Basque region. No group yet claimed responsibility for the killing of Gregorio Ordonez, who was shot in the head by a masked gunman Monday as he dined with friends in the northern coastal city of San Sebastian. But the blame for his slaying has fallen on ETA. a militant separatist group that has claimed responsibility for 7 45 deaths since 1968, but none as prominent in the last 10 years. Ordonez, the deputy mayor of San Sebastian, was the leading candi­date in its mayor's race. San Sebastian is the capital of Guipuzcoa, one of three provinces making up Spain's Basque country. 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
Wednesday, Jan. 25 Accu-Weather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high 

Unes separale high temperature zones lor the day. 

10s 
FRONTS: 

.....,......... ...&....&.. ~ COW WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Woalher, Inc. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICI' SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VJa~t&dPrrtU 


Windsor Castle 
Plans are in place to restore castle rooms that were damaged in a November 1992 fire. Built around the year 1066, Windsor Castle is the oldest royal residence still in use. 
AP/KaM Gude, Torry Kole 

Patients survive organ transplants 
WASHINGTON 
More Americans are undergoing organ transplants and living years to tell about it, says a report that exam­ined survival rates at transplant hospitals. The 2,700­page report, released Tuesday by the United Network for Organ Sharing and Department of Health and Human Services, looked at organ transplants performed between 1987 and 1991. More than 90 percent of hospi­tals that perform transplants met or exceeded the national average in patient survival and the success of the transplant itself. The message: "Patients can receive a transplant safely anywhere in the country," said Dr. Margaret Allen. 
Auschwitz never to be forgotten 
WARSAW, Poland 
Roman Catholic bishops from Germany and Poland acknowledged on Tuesday the guilt of Christians who did not resist the Nazi extermination of Jews. Their admis­sion came in statements commemorating the liberation of the Auschwitz death camp 50 years ago. President Clinton, meanwhile, has named writer Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace laureate who survived Auschwitz, to repre­sent him at ceremonies in Poland marking the anniver­sary, the World Jewish Congress said in New York City. Wiesel was planning to attend as head of the World Jewish Congress' delegation. He and other prominent Jews have been upset by what they consider bungled Polish government planning of the event. The statements from the Catholic bishops were remarkable because crit­icism of Christian behavior during the Holocaust is still rare from church leaders in Poland and Germany. 
Atianta 44 27 Dallas 54 30 New O~eans 55 37 Baltimore 30 28 Denver 55 17 New York 40 31 Boston 37 27 Los Angeles 58 54 Philadelphia 4(} 30 Chicago 26 05 Miami 80 53 Phoenix 65 43 Columbus 26 21 Minneapolis 20 00 St. Louis-28 20 
Tom Roland 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
-------, 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page3 
• HAll PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
Student Activities' workshop to help with gender relations 
HPC announces dating seminar 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
News Writer 
Having trouble making your relationships work? 
Student Activities is sponsor­ing a Creative Dating Workshop on Monday where over 250 ideas for great dates will be offered, said J.P. Kimes, assis­tant student programmer in the Student Activities Office. 
Some of the ideas include having a picnic on the fifty-yard line, on the pitcher's mound, or at center court; hosting theme parties; and having progressive dinners, such as hopping from one fast food place to the next. 
The seminar comes at an op­portune time on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cam­puses, according to Kimes. 

"It's been the perception that gender relations have been strained, and the perception has become the truth," he said. "We saw the need to help improve those relations." 
Advice on topics such as how to make a good first impression and how to date creatively on a limited budget will also be given. 
"The whole idea is to get peo­ple to talk," Kimes said. "The night should be fun, entertain­ing, and informative." 
The workshop, a ten-year old national program, has been conducted on over 150 college campuses, according to a press release. 
Its premise is that people tend to become mired in the same dating routines. 

"[Even though men and women] rely on the bar scene, alcohol, movies, expensive din­ners and sex as their most prevalent dating options, it doesn't -and shouldn't ­have to be that way," the release stated. 
The seminar will be held at 8 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Four dinners for two will be given away as door prizes. 
In other Hall Presidents' Council news from its meeting last night: 
• Troop ND, the campus hip­hop dance group, will host its second annual talent show con­test for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students on February 24 at Washington Hall. 
Participants should register to audition according to their re­spective dorms on February 2-3 from 12:30-4:30 p.m. in LaFor­tune's Dooley Room. The audi­tions will be held February 6 from 6-10 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
The top individuals in the contest will win gift certificates from local businesses, and the top dorm will receive the trav­eling trophy recognizing their victory. The trophy is currently held by Regina Hall. 
Part of the proceeds will go to an as-yet undetermined charity. 
• Fightin' Irish Synchro, Notre Dame's synchronized swimming team, is looking for funds to travel to the United States National Collegiate Championships at Stanford University March 22-25. 
At last night's meeting, Megan Keenan, president of the 12-member team, asked each dorm for $20-30 to help cover the cost of the trip. Expenses are expected to total $7,000, Keenan said. 



The Observer 
If you see news 

is now accepting applications for the following paidposition: 
Advertising Account Executive 


happening,

The Air Force is Hiring! Scholarships are available! 
Applicants should be looking for a great opportunity to gain
Air Force ROTC is about learning leadership skills, training to be an offi­

call the

cer in the United States Air Force, helping your community, having fun, 
valuable office and sales experience. Applicants should have and most important of all, serving your country. 
strong self-motivation, creativity and an interest in marketing 

Observer 

For more details check out the Air Force ROTC homepage through 
and business. Anyone interested should submit a one page 
mosaic in any computer cluster (http:/1-.nd.edu/-afrotc). 
resume to Eric Lorge by 5 p.m. Thursday, January 26 in the 

at 631-5323 
So if you are interested in getting a scholarship and joining one of the 
advertising office, 3rd floor LaFortune. For more 
best organizations in the world, then contact Capt. Richard Harter at 
information, contact Eric at 634-1179 or 631-8840.
631-4674 or send email to: afrotc@darwin.cc.nd.edu. 

ROME PROGRAM 
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 


MEETING 
PRESENTS 
Wednesday, January 25 
7:00p.m. 
Carroll Auditorium Madeleva Hall


SARA MCLANAHAN 
Saint Mary's College 
Study in Rome for one semester or for the year PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS 
Italian is not a prerequisite for participation Application deadline April 1 
AT 

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
"GROWING UP WITH A SINGLE PARENT" DON'T FORGET! 


\l. SEATING
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1995 
\\llfor JPW tonight! 
7:00PM 





MANDATORY 
ROOM 141 -DEBARTOLO HALL 
4pm-9pm 
at the Center for Continuing Education Room 112 
SPONSORED BY: 

There are three families per table. One student must present all three ID's at PROVOST'S DISTINGUISHED VISITING LECTURER PROGRAM the time of registration. 
AND 

Questions? Call Shannon Kasten at 4-4559 
THE DEPARTMENT OF SOCIOLOGY 
-~-------~-----­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 25, 1995 


Speakers share views during Women's Week 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
News Writer 
As part of Women's Week at Saint Mary's, a discussion on "Women Seekers" was held last evening in Stapleton Lounge. Gail McGrew Eifrig, Stephanie Paulsen. and Pamela Corpron Parker were invited to Saint Mary's to share their stories of their experiences examining their own spirituality as women, and carrying that into the scholarly world. 
Eifrig is a senior faculty mentor of the Lilly Fellow Program at Valparaiso University, while Paulsen and Parker are both fellows of the program. The Lilly Fellow pro­gram involves a two year post doctorate fellowship which encourages young scholars to excel both academically and spiritually. 
The discussion focused on women seeking spiritual, men­tal, and intellectual develop­ment, as the three women shared their own stories of the powerful force that pushed them to decide to attend gradu­ate school and enter into each of their vocations. 
Paulsell discussed how she developed a passion for study­ing the works of mideivel women writers. "I wanted to learn all I could about these undiscovered texts," she said, "and my experiences with this shaped my ideas of what kind of scholar and woman I wanted to be." 
She also stated how she eventually obtained her licensed ordination, which she fell into accidentally. She explained how her close friend was interested in having Paulsen perform her wedding ceremony, which was the start of her interest in ministry. "This is a vocation that I would not have developed an interest in if not for a woman that I loved so much," stated Paulsell. "I found myself in the position of doing ministry, and from there I discovered it." 
She explained that women 
can experience growth through friendship, and the way that companions, whether they are of books or human beings, can help vocations to grow inside you. 
Parker discussed the development of her love for Victorian novels while she attended Oxford University. She felt that women were final­ly beginning to be in literary history at this time. She explained to the group that this vocation also occurred some­what accidentally into her life, as she would not have devel­oped this love if not for the situation she was in at the time. 
"Success in anything has a lot to do with persistance and dis­cipline and someone else in your life to give you the push," stated Parker. 
"It's· amazing how many vocations came about by acci­dent, that it's almost as if it is all part of God's plan," stated Gail Mandell, professor of Humanistic Studies at Saint Mary's. 
The small group in atten­dance discussed the way in which the people surrounding us influence our lives and how often times we are led to do things that we could never imagine ourselves doing. 
Eifrig discussed the impor­tance in her own life of attend­ing an all women's school, and the students in attendance were encouraged to join in with their own experiences. 
Although the environment of a Catholic Women's College is sometimes said to be unlike the real world, a member of the group stated, one can develop her values and learn to handle herself well in this type of a sit­uation and will therefore han­dle herself in any type of situa­tion. 
According to Eifrig, what one wants in life often doesn't come to young women naturally, as it usually takes a push by some­one close to them to push them into the vocation meant for them. 

Join the Observer staff. Call 631-5323. 



JAZZMAN'S 
NilE CLUB 
[;(ID[L[L[E(Fj[E 
NIGHT THIS 
THURSDHY! 



FEATURING: FREE 

admission before 18 PM with Student ID, theme nights, OJ and Liue Music, and 2 dance floors! Conueniently located at: 525 N. Hill Street (219) 233-8585 
Provost 
continued from page 1 
committee, and each had the opportunity to meet with sever­al campus leaders. But after the extensive process, no can­didate emerged as acceptable to both the Search Committee and then University President Father Theodore Hesburgh. In an interview yesterday, Malloy said he thinks this committee can avoid similiar cir­cumstances. 
"We're never going to find the perfect person for the job," said Malloy, "but I have great confidence that we will find the best person for the University at this time. " 
As a result of the impasse in the last search, the Academic Council recommended that the University president chair the search committee. Malloy thinks the current structure of the committee will facilitate the recommendation process. 
"I believe that our process... as presently con­ceived meets or exceeds our peer standard for faculty consultation," he told the facul­ty. Malloy reached that conclu­sion after examining the provost searches of Rice, Stanford, Vanderbilt, Duke, and California-Berkeley. 
The search committee will re­ceive and consider nominations for provost from the University's faculty and other sources. When this process is complete, Father Malloy will consult with the elected faculty members of the council con­cerning all serious candidates. He then will report the com­plete results to the search and consultations to the University's Board of Trustees, along with a personal recommendation. It is 
the  responsibility  of  the  
trustees  to  elect the  new  
provost.  

O'Meara who originally agreed to a four year term in 1978, will step down as provost ommendation to the Board of June 30, 1996, at age 68. He Trustees well before that time. will remain on the faculty at He anticipates that the commit­Notre Dame as provost-emeri­tee will began its work in less 

tus and Kenna professor of than two weeks. mathematics until 1998. "The position of provost is a 
While no definite time table difficult job with multiple has been set, the search com­responsibilities ... Our job is to mittee has eighteen months in do our very best to find the best which to make a recommenda­person for the job," said tion. Malloy hopes to give a rec-Malloy. 
LAST CALL! LAST CALL! LAST CALL! 

1994 STUDENTS WITH MOTHER TERESA 
SAINT MARY'S SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM OPEN TO ALL ND/SMC STUDENTS 
CHALLENGING ACADEMIC PROGRAM FOCUSING ON THE ASIAN WORLD 16 SEMESTER CREDITS APflliCABLE TOWARDS CORE OR MAJOR REQUIREMENTS 
OPPORTUNITY TO TRAVEL AND STUDY IN MANY COUNTRIES OF FAR EAST, SOUTHEAST ASIA, SOUTH ASIA, EASTERN AND WESTERN EUROPE. 
COST: A SEMESTER'S SMC TUITION ,ROOM &BOARD PLUS A SURCHARGE. 
INFORMATION MEETINGS: 
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1995 7 P.M. HESBURGH LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 26, 1995 7 P.M. SAINT MARY'S HAGGAR PARLOR 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: DR. C. PULLAPILLY MADELEVA 336.SMC. 284-4468/4474 
Want to impress everyone at the 
next &YQ by your dancin8 ability? 


Join the ND/SMC Ballroom Dance Club! 
Each Thursday in the &tepan Center, we combine learnin8 cool dances like the 
jive, waltz, and tango 
with lot£ of fun. 
Come by this Thursday at 7 or 8: 10 p.m. to check us out, and see which of the two classes is better for you. 
(Those who participated in the 8:30 class last semester 
are invited to stay for the instruction offered at 9:20.) 
Questions-call Joe Cavataio at 4-1763 

Wednesday, January 25, 1995 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Dole builds campaign team for presidential bid 
UN needs criteria for intervention 
By JENNIFER GIOVA News Writer 
The broad and complex spec­trum of intervening in a sover­eign state's domestic conflicts was the topic of a lecture given by Professor Stanley Hoffmann last evening. 
Hoffmann states that individuals have a right to live in a state of their choice and it is this de colonization which in turn increases state's sover­eignty. 
Increased sovereignty can and has led to several long term trends in intervention including economic interdepen­dence and self-interest inter­vention. 
In addition, Hoffmann pre­sented many short term trends including an increase in sover­eignty and a right to democratic governments and fundamental human rights. 
These often present a chal­
h~·· 

lenge to the current system of The Observer/staff photographer deciding if a foreign force Professor Stanley Hoffman lectures on the complexity of humanitarian intervention yesterday evening. 
should intervene. 
Hoffmann claims that while 
criteria explaining restrictions ethics and the law, a lack of
it is sometimes wrong to inter­
on intervention and when it is definitions of key criteria, and a
vene, non-intervention may be 
justified. dilemma on the ethics of execu­
even worse, politically or 
tion of intervention. 
morally. Either way, chaos or 
Maxims need to be estab­One reason for the problems
domestic mischief may result. 
lished in concrete terms which and difficulties of humanitarian
The UN appears to lack 
are enforceable. intervention is the absence of
consistency when it comes time 
Hoffmann states that there an impartial agency to deter­
to decide on issues of interven­
are major obstacles to interven­mine which "grave injustices"
tion. Hoffmann suggests that 
tion, including a gap between should not be allowed. 
the UN establish some general 


Be Lit ary... 
Literary Festival. *** -16 *** 
nightly readings by co rary writers 


8:00 p 
Hesburgh .A....4&J'I..I'~ ...... 

''Reading Collins's stiW'lrAr human (and animal) misery is like ing Michael Collins 
Recycle the Observer 


THURSDAY, 8:30 DOOLEY RM. (LAFORTUNE) 
HOW THE N.D. ALUMNI NETWORK CAN HELP YOU. 
And what a Senior class. They had athletes, academics, all were all 
clue #3: 

involved in dorm life. This adds them to the collection ofother greats in the years before. 
When found, turn the treasure in to the Alumni Office (Rm. 201 Main Building) to claim the Cordless Phone. For past clues, stop by the Alumni/S.A.R.G. Office. See tomorrow's Observer for the next clue. 

• 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole filled two senior jobs in his nascent 1996 presidential campaign Tuesday, bringing in a longtime confidant as chief strategist and a senior Republican Party official as campaign manager. 
William B. Lacy was named deputy campaign chairman; Scott Reed was appointed cam­paign manager. 
Lacy was a senior aide in Dole's 1988 presidential effort and prior to that served as White House political director in 1985-86. Last year, he man­aged the successful Senate campaign of Tennessee Republican Fred Thompson. 
Reed is currently executive director of the Republican National Committee and was a leading architect of the party's successful 1994 campaign strategy. 
He worked in Jack Kemp's 1988 presidential campaign, and later served as Kemp's chief of staff at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
In a statement, Dole said Lacy will be the campaign's principal strategist and Reed will manage campaign opera­tions. 
"Our goal is to give Americans the kind of leader­ship we need to rein in the fed­eral government at home and reassert our interests abroad," Dole said in a statement. 
Earlier this month, Dole, of Kansas, formed a presidential exploratory committee to raise money. A formal campaign an­nouncement is expected in late March or early April. 
Phelps in 2004?  
SOUTH BEND, Ind. Former Notre Dame basketball coach Digger Phelps admits a presidential bid is ' ' fa r • fetched," but said he wants to get the attention of politi· cians who are not Phelps doing · enough for children. In an interview last week with the Poughkeepsie (N.Y.) Journal, Phelps said he was "angling for 2004" and wanted "to coach the coun· try." But Phelps said he just meant that he wants to get· Americans working as a team to combat problems facing young people. Phelps said he is frustrated that President Clinton has cut back on the Operation Weed and Seed program. That pro­gram, which Phelps worked on during the Bush adminis­tration, removes drugs and crime from neighborhoods and replaces them with things to improve the eco­nomic and social climate.  

page6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 25, 1995 

University of Notre Dame Summer Session 1995 Course List 
DART will be available for summer registration from March 20 to April 9 and and end Wednesday, August 2 (final exams). Some courses-primarily in 
The 1995 summer session will begin Monday, June 19 (enrollment), 
from May 8 to June 23. Students may register or make schedule changes whenever science, mathematics and languages -will begin and end before or after these 
they choose during these periods; no appointment times are necessary. dates. The sum~r session Bulletin will contain complete schedule information. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first The Bulletin will be available at the Summer Session Office (312 Main Building) 
day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, beginning Friday, February 10. 
June 23, must complete the standard summer session application/course selection Notre Dame continuing students -undergraduate and graduate students in 
form. residence during the spring semester of 1995 who are eligible to return in the fall 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal -must use DART to 1) register for summer courses and 2) add or drop courses 
plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer through Friday, June 23. The DART PIN (personal identification number) for 
Session Office at any time during the spring semester. summer will be sent to all continuing students in early March. Course call 
Tuition for the summer session of 1995 will be $159 per credit hour plus a numbers, along with all other course information, will be published 
$30 general fee. in the summer session Bulletin. 
Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
AERO 499 Undergraduate Research AME 598 Advanced Studies AME 599 Thesis Direction AME 600 Nonresident Thesis Research AME 699 Research and Dissertation AME 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research ME 321 Differential Equations and Applied 
Mathematics ME 327 Thermodynamics ME 334 Fluid Mechanics ME 342 Engineering Economy ME 498A Engineering, Society and the 
International Community ME 499 Undergraduate Research 
AJnerican Studies 
AMST 448 News Internship AMST 449 Writing Nonfiction AMST 498 Special Studies AMST 599 Thesis Direction AMST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
Anthropology 
ANTH 490 Archaeological Field School ANTH 491 Ethnographic Field Methods and Techniques 
Architecture 
ARCH 100 Career Discovery in Architecture at Notre Dame 
Art, Art History and Design 
ARHI 429/529 New Mexico Art (Taos) ARHI575 Directed Readings in Art History ARHI599 Thesis Direction ARHI600 Nonresident Thesis Research ARST 242S Wood Sculpture ARST 243S/443S Metal Casting/Foundry ARST 312/512 Pueblo Pottery (Taos) ARST 333S Painting II ARST 409S/509S Ceramics Studio ARST 430/530 Advanced Drawing (Taos) ARST 433S/533S Painting Studio (Taos) ARST 433S/533S Painting Studio ARST 499S/599S Special Studies ARST 585S Photography Studio ARST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ARST 676 Directed Readings ARST 696 Thesis Project DESN 282S/482S Digital Image Making DESN 470S/570S Design of Eric Gill DESN 496S Special Studies 
Arts and Letters, Nondepartmental 
AL 298 Visiting Scholar Studies 
Biological Sciences 
BIOS 108 Revolutions in Biology 
BIOS 294 Neotropical Natural History and Management of Central American Resources 
BIOS 494 Directed Readings BIOS 499 Undergraduate Research BIOS 569 Practical Aquatic Biology

.. 
BIOS 599 Thesis Direction 

BIOS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research BIOS 672 Special Problems BIOS 699 Research and Dissertation BIOS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Business Administration 
ACCT 231 Principles of Accounting I ACCT 232 Principles of Accounting II ACCT 334 Cost Analysis and Control ACCT 371 Financial Accounting Theory and 
Practice I ACCT 476 Introduction to Federal Taxation BA 230 Statistics in Business BA 362 Legal Environment of Business BA 392 Business Communication BA 490 Corporate Strategy BA 498 European Seminar FIN 231 Business Finance FIN 360 Managerial Economics FIN 361 Business Conditions Analysis MARK 231 Principles of Marketing MARK 473 Marketing Communication MGT 231 Principles of Management MGT 240 Computers in Business MGT 475 Human Resource Management 
Center for Educational Opportunity 
UB 104 Finite Mathematics UB 109 Composition and Literature 
Chemical Engineering 
CHEG 499 Undergraduate Research CHEG 599 Thesis Direction CHEG 600 Nonresident Thesis Research CHEG 699 Research and Dissertation CHEG 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Chemistry and Biochemistry 
CHEM 115 General Chemistry I CHEM116 General Chemistry II CHEM 117 General Chemistry I CHEM 118 General Chemistry II CHEM 119L General Chemistry I Laboratory CHEM 120L General Chemistry II Laboratory CHEM 223 Elementary Organic Chemistry I CHEM 223L Elementary Organic Chemistry 
Laboratory I CHEM 224 Elementary Organic Chemistry II CHEM 224L Elementary Organic Chemistry 
Laboratory II CHEM 477 Directed Readings CHEM 499R Undergraduate Research CHEM 599R Thesis Direction CHEM 694 Directed Readings CHEM 699R Research and Dissertation CHEM 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences 
CE 100A Civil Engineering Concepts CE 100B Civil Engineering Concepts CE 498 Directed Studies CE 499 Undergraduate Research CE 598R Advanced Studies CE 599R Thesis Direction CE 600R Nonresident Thesis Research CE 698R Advanced Topics CE 699R Research and Dissertation CE 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research 
GEOS 102 Field Environmental Geology GEOS 499 Undergraduate Research 
Classical and Oriental Languages and Literatures 
COCG 200 Intensive Greek COCG 500 Intensive Greek COCL 200 Intensive Latin COCL 500 Intensive Latin coss 402 Introduction to Syriac Grammar coss 452 Introduction to Syriac Literature coss 500 Introduction to Syriac Gram mar COSS 500A Introduction to Syriac Literature COST 530 The Bible in Syriac 
Communication and Theatre 
GOTH 201 Basics of Film and Television GOTH 205 Introduction to Theatre GOTH 361/561 Introduction to Film and Video 
Production GOTH 413/513 History of Film and Television II GOTH 460/560 Television Production GOTH 493A Broadcast Internship GOTH 497/597 Practicum GOTH 499 Research for the Advanced 
Undergraduate Student GOTH 598 Special Studies GOTH 599 Thesis Direction GOTH 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
Computer Applications 
CAPP 243  Introduction to Computers  
CAPP 315  Management Information Systems  
CAPP 395  Applied Multimedia Technology  
CAPP 497  Special Projects  
CAPP 498  Departmental Tutorial  
CAPP 499  Special Topics  

Computer Science and Engineering 
CSE 221 Logic Design and Sequential Circuits CSE 232 Advanced Programming 
CSE 498 Directed Studies 
CSE 499 Undergraduate Research 
CSE 598 Advanced Studies 
CSE 599 Thesis Direction 
CSE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
CSE 698 Advanced Topics 
CSE 699 Research and Dissertation CSE 700 Non resident Dissertation Research 
Economics 
ECON 123 Principles of Economics I ECON 224 Principles of Economics II ECON 498 Special Studies ECON 599 Thesis Direction ECON 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ECON 697 Special Topics ECON 698 Directed Readings ECON 699 Research and Dissertation ECON 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Electrical Engineering 
EE 222 Introduction to Electrical Science 
EE 224 Electrical Circuits I 
EE 232 Introduction to Electronic Circuits 
EE 242 Electronics I 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 


ROFR 102 Beginning French II EE 499 Undergraduate Research 
EE 498 Directed Studies 
ROFR 103 Intermediate French EE 598R Advanced Studies 
ROFR 104 Conversational French EE 599 Thesis Direction 
ROFR 399 Special Studies EE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
ROFR 407 The Idea of France in French EE 698 Advanced Topics 
Literature
Mathematics 
ROFR 500 French Graduate Reading EE 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
EE 699 Research and Dissertation 
ROFR 597 Directed Readings MATH 105 Elements of Calculus I 
MATH 104 Finite Mathematics 
ROFR 599 Thesis Direction MATH 106 Elements of Calculus II 
ROFR 600 Nonresident Thesis Research
E~eerinJ "ondepanbnentd 
ROFR 697 Special Studies EG 100A Introduction to Engineering 
MATH 126 Calculus II 
ROll 101 Beginning Italian I EG 100B Introduction to Engineering 
MATH 211 Computer Programming and 
ROll 102 Beginning Italian II EG 498 Research Experience for 
Problem Solving 

ROll 103 Intermediate Italian Undergraduates 
MATH 499 Undergraduate Reading 
ROIT399 Special Studies Problem Solving 
MATH 511 Computer Programming and 
ROll 599 Thesis Direction 
ROSP 101 Beginning Spanish I Processes 
English 
MATH 555 Game Theory and the Decision 
ROSP 102 Beginning Spanish II ENGL 301W Writing Short Fiction ROSP 103 Intermediate Spanish
MATH 698 Advanced Graduate Reading
ENGL 340 Shakespeare ROSP 104 Conversational Spanish
MATH 699 Research and Dissertation
ENGL 4098 Writing Non-Fiction Prose ROSP 399 Special Studies
MATH 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research
ENGL 487 The American Novel ROSP 493 Topics in Spanish American ENGL 495C American Film Literature
Medieval Institute
ENGL 498 Directed Readings ROSP 497 Special Studies ENGL 500 English for Non-Native Speakers 
Ml470/570 Introduction to Medieval Latin 
ROSP 500 Spanish Graduate ReadingENGL 523 Religion and Literature Ml497 Directed Readings ROSP 597 Directed ReadingsENGL 598 Special Studies Ml517 Paleography 
ROSP 599 Thesis Direction 
ENGL 599 Thesis Direction Ml597 Directed Readings ROSP 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
ENGL 600 Nonresident Thesis Research Ml599 Thesis Direction ROSP 697 Special Studies ENGL 699 Research and Dissertation 
Ml600 Nonresident Thesis Research ENGL 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Ml699 Research and Dissertation 
Science. "ondepanbnentd
Ml700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
sc 498 Research Experience for Undergraduates 
German and Russian Languages and 
Music
Literatures 
sc 598 Advanced Studies GE 101 Beginning German I 
MUS 220 Introduction to Music GE 102 Beginning German II 
MUS 310/510 Piano 
Sociology

GE 103 Beginning German Ill 
MUS 311/511 Organ GE 240 Conversational German 
soc 102 Introduction to Sociology GE 500 German Graduate Reading 
MUS 313 Guitar 
soc 202 Today's Organization RU 101 Beginning Russian I 
MUS 314/514 Voice 
soc 220 Social Psychology RU 102 Beginning Russian II 
MUS 316/516 Cello 
soc 232 Social Problems MUS 498 Undergraduate Special Studies 
MUS 415A/515A Violin soc 242 Marriage and Family soc 300 Foundations of Sociological TheoryMUS 598 Special Studies MUS 599 Thesis Direction 
Government and International Studies 
soc 302 Research Methods GOVT 243 Political Theory 
soc 319 Sociology of Sport GOVT 304 Presidential Leadership 
MUS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
soc 438 Race Relations in the United States GOVT 332 Conflict in Middle East: Religion, 
soc 498 Directed Readings
Philosophy
Nationalism, Politics 

soc 599 Thesis Direction GOVT 397 Directed Readings 
PHIL 201 Introduction to Philosophy 
soc 600 Nonresident Thesis Research GOVT 599 Thesis Direction 
PHIL 215 Education, Multiculturalism and 
soc 655 Directed Readings GOVT 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
Democracy 

soc 699 Research and Dissertation GOVT 692 Directed Readings-Government 
PHIL 221 Philosophy of Human Nature 
soc 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research GOVT 696 Examination Preparation 
PHIL 245 Medical Ethics GOVT 699 Research and Dissertation 
PHIL 246 Ethics and Business 
Theology

PHIL 261 Philosophy of Religion PHIL 498 Directed Readings 
GOVT 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
THEO 200 Foundations of Theology: Biblical/ PHIL 603 Directed Readings 
Historical
History 
THEO 225 The Spirituality of the Christian HIST 324 Catholic Church in Modern Europe 
PHIL 699 Research and Dissertation 
East HIST 374 Slavery in America 
PHIL 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
THEO 250 Roads to God HIST 381 Hitler's Germany and Stalin's 
THEO 260 Introduction to Christian Ethics
Physics 
THEO 498 Directed Readings HIST 383 British Rule in Ireland, Africa and 
Russia 

PHYS 221 Physics I 
THEO 499 Undergraduate Research India 
PHYS 222 Physics II 
THEO 500 Introduction to Graduate Studies HIST 428 Fragile Glory: France since 1789 
PHYS 499 Undergraduate Research 
THEO 500A Themes and Texts in the Catholic HIST 463 The American West in History and 
PHYS 598 Special Topics 
Tradition Myth 
PHYS 699 Research and Dissertation 
THEO 504 Prophets HIST 490 Directed Readings 
PHYS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
THEO 510 The Bible in Syriac HIST 590 Directed Readings 
THEO 512 Gospel of John HIST 599 Thesis Direction 
THEO 521 Patristic History HIST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
Program of Liberal Studies 
THEO 527A Intensive Course: Thomas Aquinas HIST 697 Directed Readings 
PLS 477 Directed Readings 
THEO 527B Intensive Course: Thomas Merton/
PLS 501 As You Like It, Hamlet, Tempest 
John of the Cross HIST 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
HIST 699 Research and Dissertation 
PLS 502 Coriolanus, Richard II, Measure for 
THEO 530 Fundamentals of Systematic
Measure 

Theology
PLS 503 Othello, King Lear, Winter's Tale 
THEO 532 Christology
Program in the History and Philsophy of 
PLS 504 Shakespeare: Comedy, History, 
THEO 533 Ecclesiology
Science 
Tragedy and Romance 

THEO 534 Doctrine of God 
PLS 505 Plato's Republic 
THEO 536 Theology of GraceHPS 599 Thesis Direction 
PLS 506 Crime and Punishment, Cruel or 
THEO 539 SpiritualityUsual
HPS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
THEO 546 Dynamics of Hindu-Christian PLS 507 Joyce, Dubliners
HPS 604 Directed Readings InteractionHPS 699 Research and Dissertation 
PLS 508 The Vision of Teilhard de Chardin 
THEO 551 Catholic Social Ethics THEO 552 Social Ethics 
HPS 700 Nonresident Dissertation 
Psychology 
THEO 553 Feminist Theology
Kroc Institute for International Peace 
THEO 560 Liturgical History
Studies 
PSY 211 Introductory Psychology 
THEO 561 Christian Initiation
PSY 341 Experimental Psychology I 
THEO 562 EucharistliPS 321 Racial/Ethnic Conflict in the United 
PSY 350 Developmental Psychology 
THEO 563 Liturgical Prayer
States 

PSY 354 Abnormal Psychology THEO 564 Liturgical YearliPS 396/496 Directed Readings PSY 397 Special Studies THEO 565 Liturgical TheologyliPS 411/511 Mediation and Conciliation PSY 453 Behavioral Pediatrics THEO 566A MarriageliPS 427/527 Conflict Resolution: Theory and PSY 497 Special Studies THEO 568 Liturgy of the WordPractice PSY 530 Research Methodology THEO 569A Liturgy/Art/CultureliPS 429/529 The International Human Rights PSY 533 Psychopathology THEO 570B Eastern Christian WorshipMovement PSY 534 Group Dynamics THEO 573L Comprehensive Review-Liturgical
liPS 445/545 Education, Multiculturalism and 
PSY 541 Foundations of Counseling 
StudiesDemocracy 
PSY 599 Thesis Direction THEO 573T Comprehensive Review-TheologicalliPS 476/576 Peace Education PSY 641 Professional Issues StudiesliPS 501 Colloquium on Cross-Cultural 
PSY 646 Seminar in Family Therapy 
THEO 574E Liturgical lnculturationUnderstanding 
PSY 691B Advanced Issues in Statistics and 
THEO 592A Homiletic MethodliPS 530 Peace Studies Laboratory 
Research Design 

THEO 598 Directed ReadingsliPS 599 Thesis Direction 
PSY 693 Research Special Topics 
THEO 599 Thesis DirectionliPS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
PSY 699 Research and Dissertation 
THEO 600 Nonresident Thesis ResearchliPS 693 Directed Readings 
PSY 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
THEO 698 Directed Readings THEO 699 Research and Dissertation 
liPS 695 Field Experiences 
Romance Languages and Literatures 
THEO 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
ROFR 101 Beginning French I 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995
page 8 The Observer • NEWS 
Air Force officer and son rescued after nine days in snow 
By ZEYNEP ALEMDAR 
Associated Press 
ANKARA, Turkey 

They heard the helicopters overhead but rescuers couldn't see them. In the cave where they had sought shelter from a blizzard, the Air Force officer and his 10-year-old son ate snow and tried to survive. 
A day went by. Then another. And another. 
After six nights in a freezing wilderness, Lt. Col. Michael Ronald Couillard summoned his last energy and skied out for help. It would be two agonizing nights before he would see his son again. 
Couillard told his story Tuesday, when he and Matthew were rescued nine days after they became lost in a snow­storm while on a Boy Scout ski outing. 
Couillard, a graduate of an Air Force survival course, de-



Fraud 
continued from page 1 
rience, and "parents (sic) 
information." 
While not accusing this busi­ness of disreputable behaviour, as they have had no contact with it previously, Russo stated that "the Financial Aid Office has had experience with such cided Sunday the weather was good enough to try to find help. After about an hour and a half, he came across what looked like a village, he said in a state­ment from the U.S. Air Force. 
It turned out to be an aban­doned state forestry camp. 
Couillard holed up in an unheated cottage, where he discovered some uncooked macaroni and sugar cubes left behind. 
Two days later, woodcutters found the 37-year-old officer there, weak but still conscious. 
"I started yelling when I heard some people near the cottage and finally they saw me," Couillard said from the hospital in footage shown on private Turkish TV. 
Couillard was "very weak" but managed in broken Turkish to describe the location of the cave where he left his son, a forestry official,Yuksel Gul, told the Anatolia news agency. 
organizations in the past, and are typically very suspect." The return given from such search­es, according to Russo, are usu­ally small or unusable by stu­dents, and not worth the fees charged. 
Attempts to reach the Academic Financial Program and Marianne Robertson the comapny's Financial Assistance Director, who signed the mail­ing, were unsucessful. 
CROSS COUNTRY 

BEGINNER SKI CLINIC 

SATURDA~JANUARY28 
11:00 AM 

NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE $5.00 CHARGE 
EQUIPMENT RENTAL AVAI~ $2.00 ADDITIONAL ~ 
REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS WEAR LAYERED CLOTHING & WARM GLOVES 
"Their reunion was a touch­ing scene," Gul said. 
"Although the colonel had difficulty moving, he struggled to his feet and hugged his son in tears." 
Although the colonel left some of his clothes for his son to keep warm during his absence, it was apparently not sufficient. 
"It was cold, I was hungry," the boy said on private Turkish TV. 
The survivors' first meal in nine days was a typical Turkish breakfast -tea, bread, butter and jam. "The little boy kept repeating, 'Thank you," Gul said. 

The father and son were taken to a hospital in Bolu, near the ski resort, 70 miles north of Ankara. 
They were later flown by U.S. military plane to the Turkish air base at Incirlik, where the United States has a military hospital. 
As they got into the am­bulance in Bolu bound for the airport, Couillard was over­heard saying they ate snow to survive. 

AP/Aiex Sibimy 
Anatolia later reported he had found macaroni and sugar in the cottage. 
Father and son, each on stretchers, held hands in the ambulance. 

It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your Iife. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summer job? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve 
doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change daily, like the world in which we work. Ourjob is to help clients do what they do. Only better. 
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
Andersen Consulting is an equal opportunoty employer. 

ANDERSEN CONSULTING 
ARlllUR ANDERSEN & CO.. S.C. 
Where we go from here: 

Andersen Consulting will be conducting both full time and summer intern interviews on February 6. Please see Career and Placement Services for details. 

SOUTH PADRE ISLAND PANAMA CITY BEACH DAYTONA BEACH 
Itt4'1f,fJ iiI 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK 
• PER PERSON 00'£1WING Ofi OESTWATION /IIIIEAK DATES /l.ENGlH OF STAY. 
•~aoo~suNcU.4S·E 
TOLL F11liS IN~TION & IR'IiSSJNA'I'lOIU 




l'll(f~Thtnm IE3(f(fll(frr/C®llll(f(fiD IEinww ~ (fTht®llnrr~Ihlnw JFmm~ ]]3 (fiD(ffffi 11 
Free Food Night Friday, January 27 at 9:00 
Alumni Senior Club on campus 
Only Five dollars at the door and any additional donations are welcomed! 
Come listen to Sunshine Wine and win some door prizes with your classmates to benefit a great cause! 




VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1994-95 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Jake Peters Managing Editor Business Manager John Lucas Joseph Riley 
News Editor ............................... .David Tyler Advertising Manager............................. Eric Lorge Viewpoint Editor ........................ Suzanne Fry Ad Design Manager...................... Ryan Maylayter Spom f.<litor .................... Georg< Dohrmann Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Eclitor ............................... Mary Good Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Photo Editor ....................... Scou Mrndenhall Observer Marketing Director...............Tom Lillig Saint Mary's F.ditor ............... Eiizabeth Regan Conrroller..................................... Krisren Martina 
The Observer is thr indrpendrnt nrwspaper published by the students of thr University of Notre Dam< du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policirs of the administra­tion of eithrr institution. Thr nrws is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represrnt the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Virwpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comm~nraries, lert~rs and Inside Columns presenc the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Obsrrver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free c:xpression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 


Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor/Viewpoint  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900I 8840  
Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day EditorI Production  631-4543 631-5323 631-4540 631-5303  Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Office Manager 631-7471 Fax 631-6927 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Unix  observer@boron.helios.nd.edu  

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Let's rethi~Q:ad wit~, Chin~~ Pro-life campaign 
Dear Editor: "-.. · • • · · ~ Over the past several years, · · 
/ '::needs new angle
economists and political figures have been telling us of the great Dear Editor: economic liberalizations in the This week marks 22 years of abortion on demand in People' s Republic of China and the United States. For those of us who believe that all how it is the world' s growth mar­human beings should have the same rights, regardless ket for the next generation with of stage of development, that's 22 years too many. over one billion consumers wanting As such I feel it is my duty to speak out, particularly the same kinds of goods and ser­to those who are most responsible for keeping abortion vices that the West has been hav­legal. Now there isn't much I can do about the ing for half a century. It certainly r"'"''""'"""" Supreme Court. If they want to legislate their person­does not appear that these experts al, political views from the bench, my objection isn't 
F'v' "'-'" '',... "

have been wrong as China contin­going to stop them. Ukewise, pro-abortion groups and
goods. Given US trade history with movie. Sometimes on these you
ues to be a focal point of much of the media (usually these two groups are one and the
other East Asian nations such as can't hear the dialogue because of
the East Asia region's economic same) have their minds made up. 
Japan, Korea, Taiwan etc. this noise from the audience. 
activity. So, let's see, who else is helping to convince thou­
problem can only be expected to President Clinton has recently
However, it is on another point sands of undecided Americans that abortion should be
get worse. threatened sanctions against
that these same experts have been legal?
The reasons for this huge deficit Chinese goods if China does not 
wrong. They have continually tout­Let's face it. It's not pretty to hear, but all in all the
are primarily China's closed mar­begin to respect US intellectual 
ed China as a vast new market for pro-life movement has probably done more to sway the 
ket and its continued flaunting of property rights, but if our history of 
US goods and services and that American public in favor of abortion than any other
international labor laws and regu­negotiations with Japan is any
expanding into this market will group, save the media. 
latory laws. Following Japan's guide, China will make a few 
create thousands of new jobs here As such, I'd like to take this space to make a few
model, China has erected a com­meaningless concessions at the last 
in the United States and fuel the suggestions.
plex series of visible and invisible minute, Clinton will champion it as
continued growth of the US econo­• Put down the religion thing. Sure you get some
barriers to foreign trade and they a major triumph and then every­
my. While it is true that numerous people with this argument, but for every one you get, 
are achieving the same levels of thing will go back to business as 
US companies have entered the you lose three. 
success that Japan has enjoyed for usual. Then we can do this again in 
Chinese market successfully in • Stress that basic biology, not theology, is behind
the past two decades. Wages in a few years when intellectual loss­
recent times, the large scale eco­your support of unborn children. 
China are absurdly low and the es are costing us two or th_ree times 
nomic benefits have yet to be real­• Try to understand why people support abortion.
working conditions at most of its the current amount.
ized and the long term trends do You're likely to find that their support of abortion is
factories are deplorable and below Some US companies have been
not look promising. based upon their perception of why pro-lifers oppose
the standards set by the ILF. successful in China in recent years, 
Our monthly trade deficit with abortion.
These are besides China's notori­setting up factories and offices, but 
Beijing is now more than one bil­• Try to understabd that most of the American public 
ous use of its political prisoners these haven't lead to a major boom 
lion dollars. A few short years ago, is never going to be an activist on either side of the
and other dubiously jailed persons of US exports to China. On the con­
before the Chinese market began abortion debate. Nevertheless, it is important that we
to make many of the items that trary, many of these US factories in 
to "open up" significantly, the speak to these people; their opinions still count. 
you find in stores across America. China have been shipping goods
monthly deficit was only a few hun­• Remember to speak to your audience. Your audi­
US corporations routinely lose over back to the US. President Clinton 
dred million, but it seems that ence is those who are undecided about abortion, not
one billion dollars a year to chose to ignore all of these factors 
increasing our trade with China fellow pro-lifers. 
Chinese pirating of US intellectual when he renewed China' s Most 
mainly means accepting an even • Try to come up with some phrases that sound good 
rights such as movies, COs, and Favored Nation status last year,
greater flood of cheap Chinese and summarize your arguments. The pro-abortion
computer software. claiming it was in our national eco­
goods. forces have a million of them. Couldn't the pro-life
Factories across China produce nomic interests. I don't see how a 
Evidence of this flood is ev­movement come up with at least a few?
these goods by the millions with burgeoning multi billion dollar 
erywhere. Nearly every cheap toy In short, I believe the pro-life side has been dealt a
companies such as Disney, deficit can be in our interest and it 
or stuffed animal one picks up in a winning hand in the abortion debate. I really hate to
Microsoft and IBM being denied seems that our increase in trade 
store these days bears the "Made see them throw it away. 
their royalties. Pirated video tapes with China has been decidedly one­
in China" label not to mention 
are especially bad. Many of these way.
large numbers of low-end electron­are "camera copies" where some­JEFFREY O'DONNELL 
ic goods as well as coffee cups, MICHAEL SHELIGA 
one stands in a movie theater with Senior 
sneakers, and untold other types of Dep1. of Compu1er Science and Engineering
a video camera and tapes the Grace Hall 
• 000NESBURY 
...txa:PTI?U~NG M&A/..'3, IUH/3N IU/i'R£ 5UP/3RV15e£1. 
7H& RESTOF 7H& TIMe tt/&'R/3AtOIVIi IN OUR. ROOM~. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
7H&Y W AIR U5 ONU IN A t.UH/U3, tA?TU/eeK/iNI?, 
THt;l?l3Pf.JT7/33 MAP& U$ALL 60 
70 A l<eNNY(3 CONaR:T. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The church should be for outcasts, not a church that casts people out." 
-Father Jacques Gaillot 
former Bishop ofEvreux 





VIEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 25, 1995 
• DESIDERATA 

Mistaken identity creates ~b~d _credit rati_n_J! 
Cessante ratione legis, cessat et ipsa aside from recommend that I take 1
• 

lex. Translated, this maxim means that painkillers; the doctor who saw me was 1 I when the reason for a law ceases, the much more concerned about the man , ...­law itself should cease as well. As I con-beside me, who had wisely waited a . I. -'--1....--­strue it, this means more than simply month before reporting that, every day, ~ 
that laws which have proven unwork-his chest felt as if thousands of people ____ ;;--::::::::-=~=,......:~~~~F-L.-----_l 
able should be completely abolished. It were stamping up and down upon it. ~ means additionally that there should be However, when I was billed about $100, 1 ~~ exceptions to rules and laws in situa-I did not complain; I sent the bill to my tions where they would fail to serve insurance company and considered it \ 
. 

their end and in fact would cause in-done with. \_ justice. However, not everyone abides Unfortunately, I was wrong. That by this theory, as I learned the hard way June I received a bill for $238.27. I __j
this past summer. called my insurance company, and the 

agent reported that they had paid the . i previous bill. She added that this one ~c~­
might be payable by the insurance com­
pany as well but that, as a bill for a dif-" 
ferent, lower amount had already been 
paid, they would need an itemization. 
I requested such an itemization from 
the hospital. They promptly sent me a 
Kirsten 

bill which read: $238.27. Okay, I another chance. Apparently it did not Well, you've probably guessed the 
thought, maybe I had not made myself matte to them that I had, on numerous ending of the story -they refused to 
clear. I wrote again. This time they occasions discussed this bill with them. bend the rules even in such extreme 
sent me an itemization indeed -about They had decided I was a deadbeat. circumstances as these. My father. who 
Last July I received word from Society forty pages long. Unfortunately, it was And the collection agency, CBM, had works hard for his money, had to work National Bank of Ohio that I was ineligi­the medical history of someone else. never sent me a bill either. There was even harder so he could loan me the ble for one of three loans for which I Next time they actually sent me what I no way I would have ever known the bill money that would have otherwise come had applied, the Law Access Loan. As I had requested. I sent this off to the remained outstanding if I had not from Society Bank. Now in all likelihood 

Dunne 

had received this loan the past two insurance company and, as it was mid­applied for and been denied a loan on he'll have to do it again, for taking the years, this perplexed me; it also worried August by this time, felt I could return to the basis of my credit report. bar exam is not cheap. Of course, Law me since the other two loans would school with the whole matter behind me. I paid the bill immediately this time, Access also conveniently offers a Bar leave a significant part of my tuition But alas, I came home for a weekend reasoning that a prompt payment, espe­Examination Loan, but it's not available unpaid. When I questioned the bank in September, dreadfully ill, only to see cially in light of the above information, to deadbeats like me. about this, they replied that I had some a bill form St. Joseph's on my desk. My would place me again in good standing. Of course in my case, things have negative history on my credit report. Oh mother. who makes herself very clear Wring yet again, I was! The bank agent worked out thus far. My father has 
no! I thought to myself. It must be all when she wants to, telephoned both the with whom I spoke told me, in a tone been able to loan me tuition money. and my credit cards and the enormous bal­hospital and the insurance company that one might use with a convicted felon, although it won't be easy for him, he ances I have let them accumulate. I day. After speaking to each for approxi­that I "still did not meet their stan­will lend me money for the bar as well if swore that I would stop using my cards, mately fifteen minutes, she told mP that dards." Unless all the information circumstances necessitate it. The situa­and I felt very angry for letting myself the insurance company still needed regarding the bill was erased from my tion is blatantly unfair, but I have get into such a predicament. some sort of documentation, and that credit report, I remained in bad stand­worked through it. 
However, upon receiving a copy of the the hospital was going to send it directly ing with them. So how could this be It is other scenarios which are really dreaded credit report, I realized that to them, after which time the bill would done? I learned from the credit agency disturbing. What about the person who this was not my fault at all. The blemish be paid. Thank God! I thought. What a that if only CBM would authorize such a could not borrow from Dad, or from on the report consisted of an unpaid relief it was to come home for October removal, it would be done. anyone else? Realistically, such a per­medical bill for services rendered in break and not find another problem I knew that CBM was aware of the son might not be able to return to April of 1993. Now, for you to under­with this dastardly bill. surrounding circumstances of this bill, school. And unfortunately. I am fairly 
stand why this was not my fault, it will Of course, silly me, having never for I had written them about it. I could certain that there are such people out be necessary for me to go into some heard another word about it, assumed it not pay my tuition without a Law Access there. In these cases. it is even more detail about the history of the bill. had been taken care of. But in reality, Loan. They knew that the only way I obvious than in mine that the rules have 
I went to the emergency room of St. the insurance company, for whatever could get this loan was for them to not served their purpose. They have Joseph's Hospital in April of 1993 for a reason, never paid, and the hospital felt authorize removal of the account from instead worked a profound injustice. 
condition that occasionally causes me the need to place the account with a my credit report. I had paid the bill as Kirsten Dunne, ND '92, is a third year great discomfort. They did little for me collection agency before giving me soon as I learned of its unpaid status. law student. 
What else could they ask for? 

Patriots are people, too 
not play with the flair of North Carolina or Kentucky, but it is also obvious that their heart and desire to win rivals that of 
• lETTERS TO THE Eornm 
NDHoops needs your support 
Dear Editor: 
This letter is in reference to the attitude of the student body at the University at Notre Dame ­basketball games. In two , words: it stinks. For the first ::_ 

time in several years we field a  ,  
competitive squad with a win­ ~  
ning record, and the sad thing  - 
is, few seem to care.  
Case in point, the Xavier  
game on Saturday. Although  

the arena was almost packed, • and our team played extremely well in their victory over the 12-2 Musketeers, the majority of the game was played in utter silence. Unbelievably, there were times when the one sec­tion of Xavier faithful drowned out the lethargic Irish fans. 

After this big victory, the Irish should have been heading to 'we challenge all the locker room while listening students to step to a standing ovation. Instead, up and show the quali­they trotted off to a half-filled 
ties that real home fans 
stadium of lackadaisical fans whose cheering rivaled that of exhibit.' a golf match. This is ridiculous, and the team should have been these perennial powers. The given a lot of credit for playing bottom line is that they are our strong candidates for post-sea­son play. 
We challenge all students to step up and show the qualities that real home fans exhibit. As it stands our team is 9-0 at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center, which has thus far been a neutral site. Let's start a "home" winning streak against Duke, and continue this inten­sity through the end of the sea­son. 
PAUL MEIER Dear Editor: 

I received a letter this week from a close friend (Colonel Allen Davis) who graduated from that other Catholic college in Boston. In his letter he was reminiscing about his career in the Corps and indicated that the highlight of his career was his last assignment. He was a Joint Task Force Commander sent to Rwanda with a simple mission "stop as much death and suffering as possible." 
It was the "toughest" assign­ment of his career. He told me that he felt he had made a dif­ference but was not completely successful due to events and situations totally out of his con­trol. Colonel Davis' command was DIRECTLY responsible for reducing the weekly civilian death rate of SIX THOUSAND to SEVEN HUNDRED but yet he still felt that he had partially failed. 
This story is only one of nu­merous examples throughout the U.S. Armed Forces (past and present) in which good, hardworking, dedicated, and professional Catholic service­men and woman have not only served their nation, but society as well, with much honor, and distinction, always displaying Catholic values. 
geous and irresponsible. Usually I ignore idiotic articles of this nature, however. this article is a direct insult to all who have ever served. In the real world, people who serve are not some Hollywood stereo­typical baby-killing Neanderthal fanatics. On the contrary, here on campus we are very patriotic (no-apolo­gies). and believe strongly in the words inscribed over the east entrance to the Sacred Heart Basilica, God-Country­Notre Dame. 
Do not misunderstand me­fair, intelligent, and construc­tive views, concepts. and ideas concerning ROTC on a Catholic campus are welcomed by all, regardless of what one's posi­tion may be. However. the insulting, cynical, sarcastic, and condescending mickey­mouse journalism displayed by Ozersky should carry some amount of responsibility. 
Josh, I suggest you put your brain in gear before you put pen to paper. Furthermore, you are right, "I oughta go down to that newspaper and have your butt-kicked", however, my wife won't allow me to have my 8 year-old son miss school for a few minutes. 
PETERJ. FERRARO 

so well in front of their so team, and they deserve our ADAM LIPS 
I find Josh Ozersky's article Major USMC called home fans. support, especially when they Sophomores "no more cammies on campus" NROTC It is obvious that the Irish do own an 11-6 record, and are Zahm Hall 
on December 8, 1994, outra-Universil:y of N mre Dame 



ACC~NT 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 page 11 
'The Council' hands students the world 
By JENNIFER LEWIS and PATTI CARSON 
As winter finally sets in and classes start at full speed, it is hard to imagine making plans for the summer, especially if those plans are in a foreign country. 
Yet, within the next couple of weeks the Notre Dame Council for International Business Development (NDCIBD) will be interviewing numerous council members to fill seventy interna­tional internships around the globe, with jobs starting as early as May. 
Last year, the NDCIBD sent forty-five students to countries such as Poland, Hussia, Honduras, London, Ireland, Lithuania and Estonia. According to two-year internship veteran, Mary Massey, the NDCIBD is more than just internships, but service oriented pro­jects that take place throughout the entire year. 
"The program's mission statement is helping create more global awareness at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," Massey said. 
Global awareness is of concentration for NDCIBD as it is responsible for host­ing forums which cover international is­sues, educating students about other cultures, and creating panels for discus­sions. 
Consisting of seven divisions, the NDCIBD members are encouraged to meet with one or more of the divisions on a weekly basis. The NDCIBD mem­bership is not restricted to just business majors, in fact NDCIBD openly invites all majors to join and eventually apply for a summer internship. 
"We really encourage students from all different majors to get involved," Massey said. "Because there are many opportunities for people with different educational backgrounds to learn and tnaeh others." 
Massey's first internship was in Krakow. Poland, teaching English to University students. She stayed for four weeks with three other Notre Dame/Saint Mary's students. These stu­dents taught three hours a day, making their own tests and lesson plans. 
"It was very strange, during the same month I came off of finals and then got in front of a class and started teaching myself," Massey said. 
' I did a lot more than I origi­nally planned. I ended up writing client reports for a con­sortium of U.S. banks, interna­tional financial regulating, and 
financing of the European union budgets." 
Ryan Kerrigan 

While in Honduras, Massey stayed with a host family, which took her in like one of their own children, according to Massey. 
"We were treated extremely well by our host families," Massey said. "They would take us to graduation, and reunions just like other family mem­bers." 
Last summer, Massey interned in Krakow, Poland, teaching an Interna­tional business course. In this program, Massey and three other Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's students broke down the lessons and individually taught one-in-a­half hours a day at a Catholic University. 
"The students loved to do simulations of the stockmarket," Massey said, "And business programs, designed on an eight to nine week program, deal with largl'l companies such as Microsoft, Waterford Crystal, Johnson and Johnson, Honey­well, and GE Consult. However, the majority of internships are with smaller firms. 
"Interns get a unique experience from smaller firms because they observe the 
with her companies' forty clients. During her interview she would ask questions such as how is our product meeting your needs, and how can we improve it? She would then write back to Britain Sun Systems and recommend the ideal changes the company would need to make for desired improvements. "My main task was serving as a lial-

Notre Dame Council of International Business Development (NDCIBD) member, Jerry Peters, traveled through out Northern China while working with a small consulting firm; 
jus.t another program arranged by NDCIBD. 
country first hand and experience how the business is operated within the city and the country," said Kelly McCullough. "The larger companies are a lot like working in New York, the city is so big that you do not get experience as much culture as you would in a small town." 
McCullough and Ryan Kerrigan were the 1994 Co-Drectors that set up the '94 internships. Their main job was finding contacts around the world, according to McCullough. 
McCullough spent her summer in Moscow working for C.I.B.S Eurasia, a joint venture software accounting firm. McCullough, a Russian and German major, was the only American that worked in her firm. 
In order to get to work, McCullough walked for forty-five minutes, and rode the Metro for an additional forty-min­utes, starting her day at 7:45 A.M. and ending it at 8 o'clock P.M .. She was placed in a completely Russian speaking environment, putting in eight to nine office hours a day. 
"Interning in Russia was the toughest thing I have ever done in my life," said McCullough. "When I arrived, no one even picked me up at the airport, my liv­ing arrangements were switched, and I lived with a family that could not buy milk in the stores." 
Being the Quality Control Manager. 
son between our Western and American clients and the Russians I worked with," McCullough said. "My job was to com­municate, to our clients, the difficulties the Russians faced in meeting with our clients, as well as explaining to my Russian colleagues Western Customer Service what our clients naturally expected," McCullough said. 
"Many times I would meet American students traveling and they would ask me to go with them to the bars and disco-tech. However, it was more impor­tant for me to go back to the family and learn the language," McCullough com­mented. 
McCullough during her stay, lived with a host family consisting of a host 
'I definitely encourage stu­
dents to take advantage of the opportunity to work abroad. It's a great experience." 
Jose Yanes 
mother and a host brother of twenty­eight. She lived on the fourteenth story of a sixteenth story apartment complex with a broken elevator. During her time in Moscow, she grew especially close to her host family. 
"It broke my heart to leave them, 
political consulting group, Market Ac­cess Europe. In his five week span he did numerous hours of research for the company, focused on regulations, moni­tored political trends, and lobbied European officials. 
According to Kerrigan, he would put in ten to twelve hours a day largely by his own choice, because he found his work extremely interesting. Last year his job was a trail run, and thanks to his success there will be another internship this summer for twelve weeks. 
"I did a lot more than I originally planned," Kerrigan said. "I ended up writing client reports for a consortium of US. banks, international financial regu­lating, and financing of the European union budgets." 
"I really came away from Europe with a better perceptive on macro trends and a ton of independence" Kerrigan said. 
Dillon Hall Senior Jose Yanes is anoth­er student who took advantage of the offered programs. He worked in Moscow, Russia for three months in the summer of 1993 and for six weeks in the summer of 1994. Yanes worked 30 to 40 hours per week as a mechanical en­gineer intern. 
Yanes said that he went to Russia partly to take advantage of such a great opportunity (working abroad) and partly because some of his family members come from Russia. 
He expressed that the experience was a great one. "It is such a different way of life in Russia," according to Yanes. According to Yanes that after a while, people learn how to cope with what would seem in the United States to be a disaster; for example, in Russia, black­outs and transportation failures are common. 
As far as culture goes, the main thing Yanes noticed was a "look of hardship" on the faces of the older generations. "You could tell that they had been through a lot," he said. 
Yanes talked only talked with his "home front family" every two or three weeks. "Patience was necessary when it came to the phone," Yanes said as he often had to wait one hour to place a call. "Since I was calling Mexico and since Russia only has about 39 lines abroad; I had to go through the opera­tor," he added. 
Yanes spoke optimistically about the trips to Moscow, but if he had to change one thing, he would have become more proficient in the Russian language before he went to Russia for the first time. 
"Before I left, I only knew a few basic words. I picked the rest up on the job and on the street," Yanes said. "My main worry before I left was whether or not I would find the place I was sup­posed to work on the first day since I was not fluent in Russian," he added. But his supervisor pre-arranged every­thing and Yanes' worries dissolved. 
"I definitely encourage students to take advantage of the opportunity to work abroad. It's a great experience," he said. 
Not only can students learn more about their majors, they also complete an exercise in independence. Interns adjust and adapt to a new culture, a new culture complete with a new lan­guage and different society norms. It only seems to serve as a strengthening experience. 
-
NDCIBD is currently in the selection process of placing council members for the summer '95 international internship programs. By February 13, NDCIBD will 
we loved interactive ways of teaching." McCullough worked with eight young knowing they had to face a cold winter," have placed over seventy students 
-

Russian Men, who were learning to sell said McCullough. "I still call them on the abroad. If interested in learning more 
The NDCIBD refers to Massey's software for the first time. McCullough phone once a month." about the council or in becoming a Internship as a school program, yet it promoted and sold software, but her Kerrigan interned in yet another busi­member, please feel free to contact the also offers business programs. These main job was doing client interviews ness program in Brussels, working for a council office at 631-9044. 
--~-----------------­

~ -~-------~­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 25, 1995 


Hoyas win 
By JONATHAN MOORE Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. 
Freshman Allen Iverson scored 19 of his 21 points in the first half and No. 14 Georgetown beat St. John's 88­71 Tuesday night, the Red Storm's sixth consecutive loss. 
The Hoyas (13-3, 6-2 Big East), who also got 14 points from Othella Harrington, shot 56 percent from the field, well above their usual 43 percent. 
Georgetown opened the sec­ond half with a 7-4 run to go ahead 60-34 with 17:18 remaining, its biggest lead of the game. 
A non-factor in the first half, St. John's freshman Felipe Lopez scored 14 points in a 22­7 run that narrowed the lead to 67-56 with 11:18 left. Lopez finished with 19 points. 
The Red Storm (8-7, 2-6) came within 11 points again, making it 76-65 with 5:02 remaining. Georgetown scored 10 of the next 11 points to put the game away. 
Iverson set the pace early in the game, outscoring his fellow freshman, 19-2. Usted as ques­tionable before the game because of a sprained ankle that limited him to 10 minutes in the loss to Villanova on Sunday, Iverson played 37 min­utes, shooting 9-for-19 from the field. 
The Hoyas outrebounded St. John's 42-29. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I need books for Animal Behavior.  ROSES ARE RED  SUMMER JOB FAIR-CCE, lower  
NOTICES  Jim4-4307  L.-.-_F_o_R_RE_N_T_.....JII  TICKETS  VIOLETS ARE BLUE THE OBSERVER HAS A  level -Thursday, January 26, 1­4:30 p.m. Bring copies of your  
RUN YOUR OWN BUSINESS,  SPECIAL OFFER FOR YOU  resume; discuss summer opportu- 
GAIN VALUABLE EXPERIENCE  Room available for rent. 15 mins  ROUND TRIP PLANE TIC CHICA·  nities.  ·  
SEMESTER JOB  WHILE BUILDING YOUR  walk from campus, safe neighbor­ GO-ST.LOUIS FEB 10-12$65­ VALENTINE'S DAY is quickly  
earn up to $1 0/hr  RESUME. EARN UP TO $10,000  hood and a neat and well kept  X3236  approaching and now is the time to  Important Information:  
call 289-0704  (25 JOBS) HIGH DEMAND PROD­ home. $225 a month, includes use  place a classified ad for your valen­ 
UCT, IRRIGATION SALES AND  of all utilities. Serious students pre­ I need tix! MARQUETTE or  tine. All Valentine's Day ads will  GEORGE AND THE FREEKS  
AFTER MACINTYRE, the support  INSTALLATION. BE A LEADER:  ferred. Call Paul at (219)-232-2794.  KENTUCKY!! GA or Student.  appear in a SPECIAL Valentine's  will be playing:  
group. Still looking for classes?  VEHICLE REQUIRED CALL STU­ Please sell me lots of them. Call  classified section of The Observer  Wed., 25 Jan., Club 23, 10:30 P.M.  
Get help now. Call Stephanie at 4­ DENT SPRINKLERS AT 1-800­ Kathryn at 4-4419.  on Tuesday, February 14.  and  
1349  265-7691  HOMES FOR RENT  Thurs., 26 Jan., Alumni Senior  
NEAR CAMPUS  Selling BasquetB Std Tix Booklet  You may place your classified  Club, 10:30 P.M.  
Used Texts Cheapll Check out  SKI RESORT JOBS-Hiring for  232-2595  50, 271-1998  Monday through Friday from Bam to  Come dance and Freek out!  
Pandora's Books 233·2342  many positions (including summer).  3pm. We are located on the third  
ND ave & Howard st 10-6m-sat  Up to $2,000+ in salary & benefits  Oakhill Condo for RENT  I NEED KENTUCKY GA's. CALL  floor of Lafortune. Place your ad  
9-3 su~days  (Free ski pass, ski equipment, meal  for the 1995-1996 school year.  MATT ATx2153.  now and beat the rush!  To: Jackie, Tim, Buzz, Kat, Marcia,  
discounts). Ski/Snowboard instruc­ For information call: 273-9438.  Chris, Robin, Kelley, Judy, Maria,  
Term Papers typed  tors, lilt operators, wait staff, chalet  •••  ALL ARE WELCOME!! I •••  CD'S FOR ONLY A BUCK  KT and Jesus- 
staff, + other positions. For more  1, 2, & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  COME TO WVFI'S SEMI-ANNUAL  Thanks for a great belated  
Spee-Dee Wordprocessing  information call:(206)634-0469  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & NEXT  PACERS TRIP  MUSIC SALE THIS THURSDAY AT  birthdaylll  
273-4824  ext.V55842  FALL. GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ $20  10:00 P.M. @ACOUSTIC CAFE.  Love, The Snow Angel  
6551  Thursday, January 26th  ***'**************'******•*•*****"'***•**  
WANTED  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ FOR SALE  Buses leave CCE at 3pm Tickets still on sale at LaFortune Info Desk.  WVF1640AM NEW MUSIC FOR THE NEW YEAR-NOW ON THE AIR  ANYBODY INTERESTED IN TUTORING 1ST AND 2ND  
Barefoot Bahamas Spring Break  panies. World travel (Hawaii,  GRADERS AT HARRISON  
Sailing Cruise! Free brochure  Mexico, the Caribbean, etc.).  Computer Monitor-Acer-IBM  I need two tickets for the Kentucky  Tulsa rocks.  SCHOOL IN S. BEND ON MON  
1 (800)359-9808  Seasonal and full-time employment  Compatible-Brand New-$200­ basketball game. Call x4015 if you  WED AND THURS AM, PLEASE  
available. No experience neces­ Jim 4-1059  have somelll!l  Prayer to the Holy Spirit  CALL DOMINIC AT CLASS OF 96  
sary. For more information call1­ Holy Spirit, Thou who make me see  (1-5136). SESSIONS WILL END  
Spring Break! Bahamas Party  206-634-0468 ext. C55842  1-year-old Sega w/ 2 joysticks and  4 tix needed  everything and show me the way to  BEFORE10AM. PROGRAM  
Cruise 6 Days $27911ncludes 12  Sonic 2 -good condition, killing my  ND v. Kentucky  reach my ideal. You who give me  STARTS ON JAN 30  
Meals & 6 Free Parties! Great  HELP  studies, $70 obo. Call Mark at 255­ DESPARATE  the divine gilt to forgive and forget  
Beaches & Nightlife! A HUGE  COMUTER BLUES  3545  call1845  the wrong that is done to me and  Looking for a summer job? Attend  
Party! Cancun & Jamaica 7 Nights  ibm compat. 486/50 w/ cd  who are in all instances of my life  the SUMMER JOB FAIR -CCE,  
Air & Hotel From $429! Spring  need sound hooked to cd  1 Roundtrip airline ticket to Ft.  $$$$ NEED KENTUCKY GAME  with me. I, in this short dialogue,  lower level, Thursday, January 26,  
Break Travel 1-800-678-6386  & basic tutoring  Lauderdale 3/11 returning 3116.  TIX. CALL MIKE @277-1704 $$$$  want to thank you for everything  1-4:30 p.m. Bring copies of your  
alter6,jim  Call X3704. $300, negotiable.  and confirm once more that I never  rusume.  
Florirla's Spring Break Hotspots!  STUDENTS NEEDED TO MAN­ PERSONAL  want to be separated from You no matter how great the material  "Don't even go there, you bag-lick­ 
PAN MA CITY OCEANVIEW  AGE PAINTING CREWS,  Mac POWER BOOK Duo 4/80  desires may be. I want to be with  er! What the hey? Shut up!  
ROO.' WITH KITCHEN $1291  THROUGHOUT INDIANA, FOR  with floppy drive. 273-9213  David Mamet's  You and my loved ones in Your per­ Whatever. Have a good one."  
WALK TO BEST BARS! Cocoa  SUMMER OF '95. GUARANTEED  AMERICAN BUFFALO  petual glory. Amen.  Call me if you ever have anything  
Beach (Near Disney)-27 acre  TO MAKE $3000. IF INTERESTED,  Car-Buick Skyhawk'84, low  Directed by Stephen Susco  Person must pray this 3 consecu­ nice to say.  
Deluxe Beachfront Resort 7 Nights  PLEASE CALL 1-800-94-STU­ mileage, good condition,$ 1699,  February 2-4 (Thurs.-Sat.) 8:10pm  tive days without stating one's wish.  
$1591 Key West $2291 Daytona  DENT.  call Francois at 2345716  Washington Hall Mainstage  After 3rd day, your wish will be  Lisa,  
Room with Kitchen From $129! 1­ Tickets are $3.00, on sale now at  granted no matter how difficUlt it  Hope you have a good  
800-678-6386  SUMMER JOBS  the LaFortune Information Desk  may be. Promise to publish this  day! Be happy.  
- Coed summer camp in Minnesota  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  Produced by the Notre Dame  soon as your favor has been grant­ Andrea and 7B  
seeks individuals to work as cabin  at $85,900. First Floor location.  Student Players  ed.  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  & activity counselors. Interviewer  Finished basement with full lavato­ •• note : play contains harsh pro­ Jen,  
Oceanview Room with a Kitchen  will be at SMC LeMans 2/2/95 and  ry. Two Bedrooms and two baths  fanity and some violent/adult  Desperately seeking ride to Padre  Just because Ann and I think, act,  
$1291 Walk to best bars! Includes  UND O'Hara Lunge, LaFortune  on ground level. Lease back to  themes  Island for Spring Break. Ready and  and drink alike, you don't always  
Free Discount Card which will save  2/3195 both days from 9am-3pm.  owner through May, 1995.  willing to split gas and tolls. Call  have to say it's a Kentucky thing.  
you $1 00 on food/drinks! 1-800­ Call Camp Foley at 218-543-6161  Call (616) 946-0700.  Would you like to live out the Boyz  Bridget at 4-2704.  We know that you're just jealous of  
- 678-6386  to get application  AT&T Cordless Phone, 2 yr waran­ II Men song, "I'll Make Love to You?"  GOING TO MIAMI, OH?  our wonderful state.  Tara  
Needed -former ISLI participants to  ND couple need sitter on occasion­ tee, used one semester-for sale at  If so, send a resume and a blood  I need a ride for Feb. 3-4 weekend  "the only thing that matters is me ...  
facilitate one-day program February  al weekday basis. Near NO. Must  good price-for Info. call Melissa at  sample to 606 Flanner. No smok­ (ND vs. Miami hockey game)  i don't have time tor anything else"  
4-call1-7005  have car. $5 per hour. 232-5790.  #1318  ers, please.  Please call Mary Kay at X4351  

Wednesday, January 25, 1995 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
'Canes corral coach, Butch Davis the pick 
By STEVEN WINE The Dallas Cowboys' defen­their search two weeks ago for But several college head Associated Press sive coordinator was introduced a new coach, athletic director coaches reportedly declined as Dennis Erickson's successor Paul Dee expressed reserva­invitations to interview for the MIAMI at a news conference this after­tions about candidates with no job. Two others -Colorado Butch Davis is the new coach noon. head-coaching experience. State's Sonny Lubick and Jim of the Miami Hurricanes. When Miami officials began Davis falls into that category. Tressel of Youngstown State­


··.·cALLffo"ENTRIES 
· The Northern Indiana Arts Association 
located in The Center for Visual and Performing Arts I 040 Ridge Road, Munster, IN 4632 I 
fr-e-8~/(u 

.. The University Art Sho"" 
March 1 0 -April 5, 1995 
$4000 in purchase prizes and other award money 
Juror: Susan Reynolds, Director, Feigen Incorporated, Chicago 
No entry fee Call for prospectus f219J 836-1839 Slide Deadline 2/1 0/95 
withdrew from consideration after being interviewed. 
"I don't know how many peo­ple were interested or disin­terested, and I don't really care," Davis said. "I wanted to be the head coach at the University of Miami. Whatever they thought was their busi­ness." 
Davis, 43, does have experi­ence as an assistant coach for the Hurricanes. He was Miami's defensive line coach under head coach Jimmy Johnson from 1984 to 1988, then fol. lowed Johnson to the Cowboys in 1989. 
Davis became Dallas' defen­sive coordinator prior to last season, after Dave Wannstedt departed to become the Chicago Bears' head coach. 
"I knew Butch when he was here before," said Ron Stone, a member of the university board of trustees who participated in the search for a coach. "He was an outstanding communicator, a fine recruiter of student-ath­letes and active among the booster organizations. 
'95-'96 Only 2 Houses Left 
•4 
and 5 bedroom 

•Security 
Systems 

•Fully 
Furnished 258-9996 


Pat McKelvey $100 off 
first month's rent with this ad 


HABITAT FOR HUMANITY NOTRE DAME STUDENT CHAPTER 
Join us 
for our first meeting of the semester and learn how you can be 
involved in the organization and construction of the first Notre Dame-sponsored Habitat for Humanity home in South Bend's Northeast Neighborhood. 
Thursday, January 26th 8:00pm Rm. 124-Center for Social Concerns 
In addition to general volunteers, we are in need of the following skilled laborers: electricians, plumbers, carpenters, carpet layers, etc. If you or anyone you know fits this description, please join us at the meeting or contact Jen Hampton at 634-4269. 
Habitat for Humanity International is a non-profit, ecumenical organization devoted to working in partnership with families in need to provide adequate and sustainable housing. The Notre Dame Chapter is affiliated with the St. Joseph Cc;tunty Chapter of Habitat for Humanity. 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995

page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
z ~ 



r----------------------------------------, 
HOW TO KEEP PEOPLE'S HANDS OFF YOUR MONEY. 
i  Carry only enough cash to last the day. Anyone who tries to borrow your last five spot isn't a friend, anyway.  
i  Label your spare-change jar "beetle farm:' Then, put your beetle farm in a jar labeled "spare change."  
i  Mark up every space on checks. Don't leave room for someone to fill in their name and extra zeros.  
i  Keep your wallet in your front pocket. It discourages pickpockets. So does wearing really tight pants.  
i  Put your picture on your credit card. A Citibank Photocard is tough for anyone else to use, unless they look just like you.  


-
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• SUPER BOWL COUNTDOWN 
Chargers look to buck trend 

Pholo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports lnlormalion Ex-Irish star Bryant Young ('93) is hoping he and his San Francisco '49ers teammates can prevent San Diego from becoming the team to break the NFC's ten game Super Bowl streak. 
ony
el 

Lafortune Student Center 

631-7080 

Make plans now for Spring Break in Cancun or Jamaica 
Stop by our office as soon as possible for details . 



FROM$4}9
8 Days/7 Nights Air, Hotel & More From Chicago 

FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: CLAUDIA AT 284-4326 COREY OR JIM AT BIANCHI-ROSSI TOURS 1-800-875-4525 
By BARRY WILNER them. Associared Press "That might be an AFC thing, but it ain't a Chargers thing," MIAMI 
defensive end Chris Mims said. A decade of NFC Super Bowl 
"When our season is over,dominance means nothing to 
there's no more football for the San Diego Chargers. They me," Leslie O'Neal said. didn't lose any of those games. 
The Chargers can ignore his-
They didn't even watch some of 

~travel more 
~Carlson Travel Network 
... .._. 

tory. They can argue that every year is different, every game is different, every team is differ­ent. 
They can argue until they turn as blue as their uniforms, but there is no denying the NFC has won the last 10 Super Bowls. And the San Francisco 49ers, San Diego's opponents in Sunday's title game, won three of those 10 and four overall. 
All of which contributes to the 49ers being 19-point favorites to continue the NFC run in which only two games were close. 
"The 49ers won four Super Bowls," Chargers linebacker David Griggs said. "The Chargers haven't won any. It's our first time here and every year for the past 10 years, the AFC has gotten stomped. So, of course, we're going to be the underdogs. 


SpriniJ. Break 195 
7 nit)hts 

Bahamas (air & hotel) ............ . Cancun (air & hotel) . . . . . . . ..... . Daytona Beach (hotel only) .... . Panama City (hotel only) ......... . 
Prices are per person and based on quad occupancy. Must be booked by December 17, 1994 
VIP treatment, club admissions, contests, exclusive parties and more special benefits than any other spring break trip. 
For more detailed information call the travel experts at: 
219-258-0877 
620 West Edison Road, St. Andrew's Plaza Mishawaka 


Bahamas­







$3"19 es359 
We Make Spring Break Easy! 
CAlL BUR RESERVATIONS CENI'FJl AT 1-800-52-TRAVIL. All ~~uc con1ltmcclll»wwtJy bJ' tdcpbooe tlDd aD....hn1dA 
•re runpmrccd In •drJnc ltfOU bfte ..::c-to a fu. a.cbloc, we 
t:aD cm:o fax you. wriUea ~8rm-'oa u IOQD • J'OUf ~l•comple~el Youdoa'tCI'I'ellb8'fle1101C:DdUI}'OW'(/Jj
dcpollt uodl eTerythlo1t. c~ md ICDt 10 you t. wrldng. And fOU can •f'O up 101M per r-noa If 7ou raen'O bdar-c December 17, IN4. Ca(J IIIKkyl 
FREE TRIP! ~~.~nn~JIU' 
Organl>o a Q""'P c:A IS ~ IUlllltft. peopleandyouolriplsFREEI ~TUDE NT TRAVEb ;M!"'f~ mi.Arlm! 
FOR RESERVATIONSAND INFORMATION, CALL USAT 
1-800-95-BREAK
Ml.,_..c-_.Hoo.._,......O........_.................................T..A.._.......,,.._,~ ......,_,..,.....,,
_.,..o.._.v-..... Ma.--.o,-ll.c-oo_... -··--1»-PI..,...______....,__,_ --­-----·-·-................_.., ......... Ao-~,_-..-_,_,_ 
AMERICA'S BEST SPRING BREAK VACATIONS! 
f\05 51 
TOURS 

PA~T:Ei.~ i.rt~l' HI'GNT!! AT THE BEST NIWT 'LUJS IN THE WORLP.' FROM 10·30PM-3·00AM-SPECIAL IHVERAGE DEALS OFFERED ALL NIWT 
'95~+~ 

+Florida ............ .from $ 9 9 

"The Reliable Spring Break Company•• 


Sun Splash Tours Ca/11-800-426-7710 
...,_ 

----~--~~---------~-­
The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 25, 1995 


Castoffs playing big roles 

By DAVE GOLDBERG 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

Stan Brock will line up against Rickey Jackson on Sunday, just as he did almost every day for the past 14 years. 
With a slight difference. 

When Brock and Jackson meet this time, it will be for the San Diego Chargers and San Francisco 49ers in the Super Bowl rather than in practice with the New Orleans Saints, a late reward for a combined 29 years of NFL excellence without so much as a playoff victory. 
They are symptomatic of some of the oddball species who will populate this game in the free agent era. Suddenly, the NFL's showcase game is filled with castoff Cardinals and beat-up Bucs, players who spent long careers losing games suddenly finding themselves at the pinnacle of pro football. 
But football fate is random. 

For every Brock, Jackson, Leslie O'Neal, Harry Swayne or Tim McDonald, veterans who have had long careers on losing teams, there are guys like Gale Gilbert, the first player ever to appear at five straight Super Bowls, and rookies who show up for a year and find them­selves in the big game. 
"At least people are talking to me at this one," said Gilbert, who was the third-string quar­terback for Buffalo the past four years and now has moved up to second-string with the 

"THE FINEST IN OFF-CAMPUS HOUSING" 
•FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES ·TWO BATHROOMS ·SECURITY SYSTEMS ·KITCHENS WITH DISHWASHER, GARBAGE 
DISPOSAL, REFRIGERATOR, AND RANGE ·WASHER AND DRYER IN EACH UNIT ·GAS HEAT 
•CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING ·PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT ·24-HOUR MAINTENANCE ·ONE MILE FROM THE NOTRE DAME 
CAMPUS 

NOW LEASING FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
232-8256 
Chargers. 
"When I was with the Bills, I used to sit back in the corner and do crosswords." 
But it's the guys who have toiled long and hard without expectations who enjoy it the most. 
"I certainly didn't get a heli­copter ride up to the top of the mountain, I had to struggle my way up the back," says Swayne, San Diego's left tackle. He played his first four NFL seasons with Tampa Bay, the ultimate NFL backwater, before joining the Chargers as a Plan B free agent in 1991. 
There are five ex-Bucs start­ing Sunday, topped by Steve Young, the San Francisco quar­terback and league MVP who was traded from Tampa Bay in 1987 for only a second-and fourth-round choice. So well do ex-Bucs do elsewhere in the NFL that the media in central Florida picks an "Ex-Buc of the Week" to accentuate the futility of a team that's lost 10 or more games for 12 straight years. 
There are a lot of candidates for "ex-Buc" this week, Young plus four starters for the Chargers -Swayne, defensive tackles Reuben Davis and Shawn Lee, and kicker John Carney. Davis is doubly distin­guished. Not only did he play at Tampa, but he stopped in Arizona with the Cardinals, whose history is nearly as dis­mal as the Bucs. 
So these guys are happier than most people to be here. 
"It's like we have to take a deep breath and realize we're here," said Brock, who spent his first 13 years with the Saints before signing with the Chargers a year ago when coach Jim Mora made it clear he was no longer needed. 
The 36-year-old Jackson took a major gamble to get here, signing with the 49ers for the minimum $162,000 and turning down a lot more to re-sign with the Saints. His reward: When the 49ers beat Dallas in the NFC title game, he collected a Super Bowl bonus of $838,000. 
More important, he earned a shot at his first ring, worth more to him than cash. 
But many longtime Chargers can think back on futility with­out having to think of another city. 
"I remember 4-12 and 6-10, 6-10 and 6-10," said O'Neal, like Jackson a frequent Pro Bowler but never a Super Bowler. "After that, you don't know how much I appreciate this." 
Then there's McDonald, who signed with the 49ers after six years with the Cardinals, in Phoenix and St. Louis, making the Pro Bowl three times but never coming close to the play­offs. They were 32-63 while he was there. 
"It got so I didn't know whether I was part of the solu­tion or part of the problem," McDonald said. "It was one of those situations where losing begot more losing." 

Andrew Sullivan 
Editor: The New Republic 
THE GAY CATHOLIC pARADOX 
Thursday, February 2 7:30PM Hesburgh Library Auditorium Free Admission 
A talk on Theology and Homosexuality 
This event has been sponsored by : 
Graduate Student Union  The Student Union Board  
Department of Theology  ~  The Counseling Center  
Gender Studies Program  ~  Department of Sociology  
Graduate Theological Union  .....................  American Studies Dept.  

Department of Government and Interoational Studies 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
1995-96 
Editor-In-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the Univ~rsi~ of~otr.e Dai?e or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The edttor-m-chtef Is entirely 
responsible for the operation of The C?bserver. Applicants s?ould ~ave a strong interest in journalism and possess sohd managem~nt, public relations, a~d communications skills. Previous newspaper expenence or a background m writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to jake Peters by 4:00 
.m. january 27, 1995. For additional information about the position ~r appli­
cation process, contact Peters at 631-4542 or stop by the office on the thzrdfloor o 
the LaFortune Student Center. 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Zataveski honored 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame senior center Mark Zataveski was named to the Hitachi/CFA Scholar-Athlete Team yesterday. He was cho­sen because of his ability to successfully balance both ath­letics and academics over the course of the past year. 
Only twenty-three other foot­ball players from other mem­bers of the CFA were also cho­sen for this award 
A $1,000 contribution will be made to Zataveski's alma mater Bishop McDevitt High School in Wyncote, Pennsylvania. 
Zataveski has received other similar awards in past years. He named to the GTE/CoSIDA Academic All-American District IV Team in 1993 and 1994. He is also the recipient of a 1994 National Football Foundation and Hall of Fame Postgraduate Scholarship. 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
BALLET-Instruction based on traditional Russian tech­nique. Introduction to all levels with students being instructed according to their level. Semester-long course that meets Tuesdays from 6:30-7:30 PM and Saturdays from 10:00 AM-noon in Rockne Rm. 301. The fee is $35.00 and you must register in advance at RecSports. A demonstration will be held on Sunday, January 29 at 12:30 PM in Rockne 301. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more info. 
X-COUNTRY BEGINNER SKI CLINICS -The clinics will be held on the Notre Dame Golf Course and the cost for each clinic is $5.oo with equipment rental available for $2.00 addi­tional. The clinics are January 28 at 11:00 AM-deadline January 26; February 4 at 2:00 PM-deadline February 2. 
Register  in  advance  at  
RecSports.  For more info  call  
1-6100.  

DOWNHILL SKI TRIP -RecSports is planning a down­hill ski trip for Friday, January 27 at Swiss valley. Bus leaves the library circle at 5:00 PM and returns at 11:00 PM. The cost is $27.00 if you need to rent skis and $18.00 if you do not. Beginner lessons available free of charge. Register and pay in advance at RecSports. Deadline is January 25. For more info call RecSports at 1­6100. 
CROSS-COUNTRY SKI RENTALS -Rentals are avail-
God gives each personone lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
able to students, faculty, and staff. Rent skis, boots and poles. No reservations neces­sary. Check out 4:30-5:30 on Thursday and Friday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. Check in 4:30-5:30 on Friday andSunday and 11:00 AM-2:00 PM on Saturday. For rates and more info call Golf Shop at 1­6425 or RecSports at 1-6100. 
BENGAL BOUTS -training occurs daily at 4:00 PM at the JACC. Anyone interested should please contact Jeff Goddard at 2817-8041. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE ­Mandatory meeting on Wednesday the 25th. Meeting will be held in LaFortune, 3rd floor, Foster Room at 8:00 PM. Bring dues and insurance forms. Any questions call Molly at 287-7353 or Erin at 4-2770. 
NOVICE AND VARSITY CREW-There will be a meet­ing Wednesday night at 7:30 in 126 DeBartolo. 
CLIMBING WALL SCHED­ULE-The Climbing Wall will be open for use beginning Sunday, January 22. The hours will be Sundays 2:00-5:00, and Tuesdays and Thursdays from 7:00-10:00. The climbing wall is located in the Rockne Memorial and anyone interest­ed in using it must attend an orientation session. For more info call RecSports at 1-6100. 
IH Football Equipment Return -The last opportunity to return football equipment is january 26 at gate 9 of the sta­dium from 2:15-3:15. 
Notre Dame Martial Arts 
lnstiute-TaeKwonDo and Ju 
Jitsu beginner's practices start 
this Thursday, Jan. 26 from 
5:30-7:30 in Rm 219 Rockne 
and Sunday, Jan. 29, 6:30-8:30 
in 219 rockne. Advanced prac­
tices Friday 6-8 and saturday 
1 Oam-12. For more info call 
Jamie at 1186 or Kyle at 3334. 


-


The Observer/ Brian Hardy 

Ryan Hoover scored 12 points as he shot three of four from the free throw line in last night's loss. 
COME AND SEE 
The St. Edward's Hall Players' production of: 
Night Of January 16th 
Ayn Rand's comedy-drama in three acts 
Performances are at 8:00PM Thursday, Friday and Saturday January 26, 27,28 in Washington Hall. 
Tickets are available at the Lafortune 
..... 
Information desk, and at the door. Admission is $4.00 
Worth 
continued from page 20 
threading solid passes to cut­ting teammates, jumpstarting an otherwise stagnant offense. 
In the end, Parks would re­cover his composure to hit the game's biggest shots to snuff a final Irish rally. 
However, impressions were made on both sides. 
"I grew to love Garrity during the week because of the stuff we watched on film," stated acting Duke head coach Pete Gaudet. "He's tough, works hard, and is a warrior out there." 
Garrity's outside game received the most praise. "We didn't expect him to 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 
come off screens so well and knock down the outside shots," explained Parks. 
"We played too far ofT of their big guys on the perimeter, es­pecially Garrity," concurred Gaudet. 
The Irish star remained un­fazed though. "I guess it's a good thing they didn't find that in the scouting report," he replied with a wry smile. 
Inevitably, however, the temptation to stretch the com­parison grew too strong to re­sist. 
''I'd compare him (Garrity) to 
.a baby McHale," noted Gaudet, referring to former Boston Celtics star Kevin McHale. "He may be ahead of where Cherokee was at that stage of his career, since he can shoot the three already." 


-
sa;az n a as s:z_ a a a usscs a SZ&IW X
2 
page 19 

Wednesday, January 25, 1995 The Observer • TODAY 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

P..,\'\'{\\-1\NG 
\ 

DILBERT 
MIKE PETERS 
[ 00\-.11 l>t.SER'lt. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "60 Minutes" producer Hewitt 
4 Press on 9 Invitation replies 
14 Bachelor's last words 
15"­
circumstances beyond ..." 16 Before-dinner 
tidbit 17 Really calm 20 Cube inventor 
Rubik 21 1987 film flop 22 Mach topper 23 Govt. permit 25 Sargasso, e.g. 27 Really tidy 36 Breakfast fish 37 Santa-, Calif. 38 Card with a 
message 39 Baseball tags 41 Summon 
43 "Star Trek" crewman 44 Bridgestone
products 46Auguries 48 Yore 49 Really fit 52 Calendar abbr. 53 Dancer 
Chari sse 54 Pixie 57 One who leads 
the way 61 Something to think about 65 Really gone 

68 Spoken language 
69 Big-city newspaper heading
70 Fury71 Floozies 72 Ordinary lines 73 Census datum 
DOWN 
1 Rearview mirror 
decoration 2 Redolence 3 When shadows 
shorten 4 Actress Lupino 5 Soiree 
entertainment 6 They're often 
split 7 Put art on glass 8 Palooka 9Tag line? 

29 Hollywood walk-on 30 "Sto~pin' at the 
31 Perfume 32 Rouses 33 More faithful 34 Lounges 35 Piano practice 40 Ending for him 
or her 42 Lawmakers 45 Baby rivers 47 Lacking 50 Infamous Alger 59 Silesian river 51 Asgard chief 60--Rooter 54 Rework, as a 62 Orator's perch 


story 63 Dublin's land 55 Swan's partner, 64 "Roots" writer 
in myth Haley 56 Equitable 66 E, in Morse 58 Word with boot code 
or summer 67 Agile deer 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
1. Is it possible to be attracted to someone even if you're not wearing beer goggles? 
Find This Out and More 
TONIGHT 
Room 102 DeBartolo Hall 

Sponsored by: Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
CLOSE TO HOME JOHN McPHERSON 

"How on earth could I have known that your coat was caught on the door handle?" 
J.S. Bach. will be performed by 

,,...,_.,.,. l'l,r-rno.nt,~t and associate professor of Heari Basilica tonight at 8:00 is free ~d open to the public. 
SOUTH DINING HALL 
Grilled Pork Chops 
Grilled Turbot 
Irish Brown Potatoes 

Celebrate a friend's birthday 
• 
with a special 
Observer ad. 
2. 
How can we get what we want (academics, relationships, fun) without putting ourselves or our friends at risk? 

3. 
What's the difference between dumb and dangerous? How can you avoid situations even Jim Carrey would find scary? 


FUN, at DUMB AND DUMBER 
A LOOK AT MEN, WOMEN, AND ALCOHOL Presented By: David Leschke-Hellstrom 
BACCHUS/GAMMA Peer Education Network 
• 
.... 


f 
' 
SPORTS 
Wednesday, January 25, 1995 


t 
l 
I 
r 
The Observer/ Brian Hardy 
Cherokee Parks and Pat Garrity battled each other all night, but Parks ultimately won the 
war by scoring 29 with Garrity two points behind. 
•

Bowen on the brink .as Irish head tO~Gre~r cy 
By K.C. GoYER 
Sports Writer 

N o t r e D a m e women's basketball is taking the show on the road 
as th~y
travel to 
play the University ofWisconsin-Green Bay tonight. The Irish are coming off a two game.stay at home where they won both contests by twenty or more points. 
Probable starters for Notre 
Dame will include .freshman 
guard Mollie Peirick; who hit 
S of 9 shots including 2 three 
pointers in addition to a per~ 

feet 2 for 2 from the fouJ)iQe imgame, in the last game. Sophomore 
.. 
Beth Morgan, last year's Most Valuable Player, wUilikely be the focus of Wisconsin's de· fense;. following thtt.trend of most of Notre Dame's oppo­
Q~nts this $eason.. K.a1}-yna 
Gaither wlU p-.,.t.h~r ~~~e< ~p 
w~e at (;)enter, meMU.~jttg 4 

inches taller than the oppo­nent's startitlg forwards. .senior and ~o-captain · · tetitia Bowe# will con~ue to 
·build upon her all-time lead­ing rebounder milestone Which she surpa!)se last 
:wee~. as .w~n as ch) ....··• on 

... scoring herl.OOOth . ttt) As 
oftonight's game. Bowen has s~ored 985 points since her sta.rtwith the Irish in1991. 

.~unior!i Carey .J>;Qol' an.d Stacey Fields have 'been switching off in the starting position depending on. the abilities of. the opposing t~am. J>;()or'adds s1tength and siZe in th~ key while Fields' ball han­dling and passing skill!i at gpard · the . 
Garrity proves his worth 
By TIMOTHY SEYMOUR 
Associate Sports Editor 
For a few brief minutes in the second half last night, it seemed as if the veteran and the rookie would decide head­to-head who would leave the Joyce Center victorious. 
The veteran was Duke center Cherokee Parks, a tested four­year starter who was struggling to lead a Blue Devil team he finally could call his own. 
The rookie suited up for the Irish, as freshman forward Pat Garrity took Notre Dame on his back, attempting to bring con­sistency to an up and down squad. 
Certainly their statistics were similar: 29 points, three 3­pointers, and seven rebounds for Parks, and 27 points, two 3­pointers, and eight boards for Garrity. 
Unfortunately, Parks had more help as Duke won. 
For a time, though, it seemed as if the two might leave the rest behind and have it out themselves. Both big men with soft touches, they traded jump shots and post passes to keep their teams close. Parks 


Blue Devils prove to be too much for Irish 
Even attack overwelms Irish 
By JASON KELLY Associate Spores Editor 
Duke may not be able to win in the ACC, but the Blue Devils proved Tuesday that they can win in the slightly less competitive JACC. 
Winless in six straight Atlantic Coast Conference games, Duke took leave from the league last night and soothed its recent wounds with an 87-74 win over Notre Dame at the Joyce Center. 
"I don't care if it's an ACC win or not," Duke center Cherokee Parks said. "A· win is a win." 
It was the first for interim coach Pete Gaudet, who will lead the Blue Devils for the rest of the season while head coach Mike Krzyzewski recovers from a back problem. 
Duke got a little problem off its back Tuesday, opening a 61-43 lead midway through the second half and holding off a late Irish rally to win its first game in three weeks. 
"The phrase 'monkey on my back' took on new dimensions when Coach K took us to three or four Final Fours (without winning a championship) and everybody said he had a monkey on his back," Gaudet said. Duke looked like the same struggling team in the first half, shooting just 45 percent from the field and 36 percent from the free throw line to absolve the Irish of a sloppy per­formance and keep the score knotted at 34. 
Duke went on a 27-9 run in the first 10 minutes of the half, led by Parks, who scored nine of his game-high 29 during the stretch. 
"They were more physical than us," said Notre Dame freshman Pat Garrity, a cow-licked kid from Colorado who carried the Irish with a career-high 27 points and even drew a few compar­isons to Parks. 
After shooting a simmering 56 percent in the first half, the Irish shot just 43 percent in the final 20 minutes, scoring just three points during a crucial six­minute stretch when Duke opened its biggest lead at 18. 
"For about four minutes we had no offense," Jason Williams said. "It just went stagnant." 
Notre Dame found some offensive rhythm midway through the half, trim­ming the lead to five on Williams' breakaway layup with just over six min­utes left. 
That burst awakened the JACC audi­ence of 11,418. But they went back to sleep after a Parks jumper and a 3­pointer from Kenny Blakney that pushed the lead back to ten. 
Notre Dame never threatened again. 


The Observer/ Brian Hardy 

Pat Garrity was a bright spot in last night's defeat as he matched All­American candidate Cherokee Parks in almost every stat.. 
cracked first. the ensuing free throw. 
Showing the frustration of a Meanwhile it was Garrity that sub-standard season, he exhibited poise, coolly knocking pounded the basket stanchion down the open shots and after missing a breakaway layup and proceeded to miss see WORTH I page 18 
Miami Hires Coach 
The University ofMiami hired ex-assistant Butch Davis as its new head football coach 
see page 13 

MIAMI 

of note... 
Look insde for previews of this Sunday's Super Bowl 




