

Tuesday, October 3, 1995• Vol. XXVII No. 32 
TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Guide on hold due to low prof participation 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Ediwr 
For the first time in three years, there will be no Guide for students when the time comes to select classes. 
The Guide, a survey of Notre Dame professors based on student opinion will not be published this fall according to Andrew Eifert, coordinator of the project. 
"I don't think we're going for a complete run," said Eifert. "We're going to try to publish in the spring." 
Student Government remains committed to the idea of The Guide, Student Body President Jonathan Patrick said. "There's so much poten­tial in (The Guide project)," said Patrick. "We need to make this work." 
"Almost all of the schools that Notre Dame considers peer institutions have some form of a course guide," he said. "There is a link to acad­emic integrity there." 
·A light rasponse from professors and waning student interest in The Guide contributed to the decision not to publish. Only 30 professors had expressed interest in being reviewed by The Guide by the filing deadline, said Eifert. 
Eifert thinks the methodology of The Guide may contribute to the low turnout. "Some professors are uncomfortable with the idea of being reviewed twice rather than once." 
Professors are already strongly encouraged to administer the University's Teacher Course Evaluations (TCE) to their classes. Guide sur­veys are distributed at the professor's discre­tion. Many professors are hesitant to include both in their class plans, said Eifert. 
Organizers were contemplating producing the Guide in a new format this year, said Eifert. Student Government hoped to contract the printing of The Guide to Scholastic Magazine, who would publish The Guide in magazine for­mat. Student Government hoped to save 25% on printing costs this way, said Eifert. 
But with the limited number of responses, 
see GUIDE/ page 6 
Let's Dance! 

Members of Troop NO practice their routines in front of Stone­henge. 

Center of attention 
Children enjoy time playing on the jungle gym outside the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. In a recent visit to the center, Housing and Urban Development Secretary Henry Cisneros declared the center one of the two best facilities in the country, and announced that it will serve as a training model for homeless cen­ters across the nation. 
Wehby, Jackson victorious 
SMC frosh take runoff over two other tickets 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 
The theme "Hail to the Chief' 
may be ringing through the 
minds of two Saint Mary's 
freshmen. 
Last night's election returns gave Katie Webby and Tysus Jackson the role of president and vice-president for the class of 1999. 
"I'm really excited about 
working with the board," said 
Webby. "We want the fresh­
man class to know we're going 
to work for them to get things 
done." 
Immediate plans include a Saint Mary's freshman calen­dar, a class dance, and fresh­man mixers with Notre Dame, according to Webby, "in order to make the class more spirited and unified." 
Jackson stressed that the in­
coming leadership promotes 
student input and involvement. 
The Wheby-Jackson platform 
was "based on students' ideas; 
from things they wanted to see 

FRESHMAN CLASS ELECTIONS 
now to goals to accomplish by the end of our senior year," she said. 
"We want to make sure the administration knows what the freshman class wants." said Jackson. "The class of 1999 can really contribute to Saint Mary's in a big way." 
In the run-offs, the Webby­Jackson ticket led with 38.6 percent of the vote, followed by Mary liz Tully-Christine Bartle with 31.3 percent, then Su­sanne Barrett-Nicole Kraimer with 21 percent, according to 

Cisneros commends Center for Homeless as one ofAmericas best 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 

Look around at all the service opportunity flyers on campus and the walls of the Center for Social Concerns and it is obvious that Notre Dame is a community dedicated to helping others. This ded­ication spans the South Bend area and is embodied in the Center for the Homeless, run by Notre Dame graduate and Executive Director Lou Nanni. 
In a recent visit to the Center, Housing and Urban Develop­ment (HUD) Secretary Henry Cisneros and Representative 
'---""'""-=-...-. Tim Roemer, (D-Ind) lauded the Nanni Center for its well-rounded re­habilitation programs and the overall success they have achieved in aiding homeless men, women and children. 
Cisneros declared the South Bend facility one of the best two in the country and put forth the chal­lenge that it serve as a training model for home­less centers across the nation. 
"One of the things we have to do in America is build upon the best things that work," he stated. "We could bring people here and you could help to create duplicates of this across America by train­ing the people who would go out and do the work. They need to see and work and get hands-on at a facility that really does the best job." 
In just six short years, the Center has built itself into one of the most respected in the country. Established on December 18, 1988 by the Uni­versity of Notre Dame, the United Religious Community, the city of South Bend and the Junior League, the Center for the Homeless offers a constructive rehabilitation program for its resi­dents. The guests actively seek employment while working one on one with a social worker. 
Nanni hopes that this aspect of the South Bend 
see CENTER! page 6 

Emily Ruffner, commissioner of elections. Nine percent of the voters abstained. as forty-two percent of the freshman class turned out at the polls. 
"All the candidates were pro­fessional, and showed so much excitement. Since only six [of a possible 13) people were elect­ed to board positions, I hope all these students can serve on the board," Ruffner said. The seven empty slots on the fresh­man board will be determined by Webby and Jackson, accord­ing to Ruffner. 


The other side of the story 
Although far less noisy Brandon Williams 
Associate Viewpoint Editor

For those of you who are unaware, this great spring contro­versy which has spread into the fall was sparked by the Notre Dame administration's decision to deny GLND/SMC campus meeting space because it is not a recognized campus group. The University holds that the group cannot be recognized because its beliefs are highly inconsistent with the religious convic­tions of the Roman Catholic Church, and, subsequently, of Notre Dame. These actions the American Sociological Association "strongly deplores" and served as the back­ground for "Roy Cohn/Jack Smith". These actions drove the Gender Studies Program, various professors, the ASA and GLND/SMC itself, to line up against the Notre Dame administration. This has occurred so far this year without one outside voice to defend the administration. 
The way I see it, the issue is simple. It all comes down to the very nature of this University. Exactly what· is the University of Notre Dame? Notre Dame is a private and Catholic university. Each student at this school chose to be here knowing that "from its founding in 1842 until the present Notre Dame has self-consciously and proudly pro­claimed itself to be a Catholic university". Every person who attends this university must do so understanding this fact. 
I believe that the Catholic nature of Notre Dame plays a large part in making it so spe­cial to so many people. Many people here take for granted the intertwined nature of Notre Dame's Catholicism and all facets of its unique identity. Therefore, although I would contend that few among the student body agree with every position of either the Church or the administration, we come to Notre Dame understanding that its identity is necessarily a Catholic one. With all of the benefits that come with this fact, from the sense of family to the "Notre Dame spirit", there also comes some basic beliefs. We are not forced to believe them, however, as the University is a private one, we are forced to abide by them. 
What GLND/SMC and the various other groups are asking Notre Dame to do is pick and choose where it abides by the teachings of the Church and Christianity. It simply cannot do this and still retain its identity as Notre Dame. Being a Catholic university, Notre Dame rightly advocates love for all humanity, defmitely including homosexuals. However, if Notre Dame recognized GLND/SMC, it would be recognizing a lifestyle as valid that directly contradicts the tenets of its Catholic identity. Furthermore, ND, being a private university, has every right to uphold its religious convictions in its policies. 
Thus, it seems to me that the assault on 
rights in this debate is on those of the univer­
sity itself. Notre Dame is being asked to give 
up a religious conviction that it and many 
involved with it hold to be true. Notre Dame 
is being asked to give up an integral part of 
its system of beliefs. Notre Dame is being 
asked to give up its right, as a private 
University, to make policies consistent with 
its code of morality. Notre Dame, in being 
asked to give up these things, is being asked 
to give up a huge part of that which makes it 
Notre Dame. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Viewpoint Amy Schmidt Christina Cannon Deborah Schultz Victoria Pratte Sports Many Dickinson Megan McGrath Production 
Graphics Tara Grieshop Brian Blank Jackie Moser Accent Lab Tech 
Ashleigh Thompson Michael Hungeling Melinda Cragan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday duough Friday cxc:cpt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. AU reproduction rights arc reserved. 
-~~-­
Tuesday, October 3, 1995The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
New hurricane wanders Gulf of Mexico, dumping heavy rain 
MEXICO CITY Hurricane Opal meandered Monday over the southern Gulf of Mexico,  Hurricane Op.al Projected movemen  of Mexico, according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center in Coral Gables, Fla.  
dumping heavy rains and causing  Before becoming a hurricane, Opal  
extensive flooding that forced tens of  dumped heavy rain all along the south­ 
thousands of coastal dwellers from  ern rim of the Gulf of Mexico.  
their homes.  The state of Tabasco has received 20  
At least five people were reported  percent of its annual average rainfall in  
missing in floodwaters in Tabasco  the past four days.  
state as the slow-moving storm grew Monday into the ninth hurricane of the  Opal was drifting west Monday at 3 mph and expected to turn north some­ 
Atlantic Ocean tropical storm season.  time Tuesday, meteorologist Mike  
It carried sustained winds of 75 mph and gusts to 87 mph.  Hopkins said in Coral Gables. He added that Opal was expected to  
As rivers swelled, more than 20,000  strengthen somewhat over warm Gulf  
people in Campeche state were forced  waters and did not rule out the pos­ 
to abandon their homes during the  sibility the storm could turn northeast,  
weekend. Four hundred communities  toward the United States.  
in Tabasco were flooded, sending  "Anybody on the Gulf Coast all the  
22,000 residents to government shel­ way around should be watching,"  
ters.  Hopkins said. "Right now, this hurri­ 

Source: Accu-Weather
Civil defense officials urged residents of low-lying rivers, lagoons and coastal areas to seek high ground in schools and other makeshift shelters. 
At 2 p.m. EDT, Opal's center was located about 180 miles west of the Yucatan city of Merida in the lower Gulf 
Clinton cites 'horrors of abuse' 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton today launched a month-long education campaign in a national effort to stem domestic vio­lence, saying, "We do not have to put up with this." "The days of men using physical violence to control the lives of their wives, their girlfriends, their chil­dren, are over," Clinton said in a speech before victims of domestic vio­

lence. "This is a human tragedy," the president said. "It is an American issue, it's a values issue. We do not have to put up with this." Clinton declared October as National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, and urged Americans to recognize those who work "to end the hor­rors of abuse." He also issued a memo instructing all agencies in the executive branch to launch domestic vio­lence awareness campaigns within the next six months. He said he supports plans by the Justice Department to produce a manual and poster about domestic violence, and to hold an information fair on violence against women. Despite his administration's efforts over the past year to increase public knowledge and to expand preven­tion services, domestic violence remains a threat. 
David Rockefeller bids for control 
NEW YORK 
David Rockefeller has entered the fray for control of Rockefeller Center, bringing his family's money and pres­tige to bear in a struggle for the building complex that bears his name. Rockefeller has joined with the invest­ment firm Goldman, Sachs & Co. and others in an attempt to nullify a deal that would leave Chicago investor Sam Zell, General Electric Co., Walt Disney Co. and others with half-ownership of the Manhattan land­mark. His group's offer, announced Sunday evening, also would push out a proposal by the investment fund Gotham Partners L.P. for the 12-building complex, which has been mired in bankruptcy since May. "It's a bidding war," said Wayne Teetsel, an analyst at B.D.S. Securities Corp., a brokerage firm. "What you're seeing is a bidding war heating up before a deadline, it's as simple as that." The Rockefeller-Goldman Sachs offer came before a court hearing Tuesday at which a plan to allow the prop­erty to emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection from creditors was to be presented. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 

Thesday, Oct. 3 Accu-Weather'"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather<~> forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 3. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 


Pt8SSUr&
H L 
HIGH LOW 
V&IAaodollldP,... 
Atlanta  76  
Bahimore  72  
Boston  59  
Chicago  75  
Columbus  76  


AP cane is just meandering along. It is moving very slowly and really hasn't found anything to grab onto yet. We're waiting." 
Twelve-foot waves were reported in Mexican waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Most commercial and fishing ports were closed, as were some airports. 
Two Honda executives sentenced 
CONCORD, N.H. 
Two former American Honda Motor Co. executives were sentenced to prison Monday for accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in kickbacks from dealers who ex­pected extra cars and dealerships. John Billmyer, 65, of Raleigh, N.C., the top U.S. sales executive from 1983 to 1988, was sentenced to the maximum five years and fmed $125,000 for conspiracy to commit mail fraud. He was released on bail pending appeal. Dennis Josleyn, 48, of Loveland, Colo., a former West Coast Honda sales manager, was sentenced to 6 1/2 years for racketeering and mail fraud. Josleyn, who is appealing his conviction, was allowed to report to prison in November. He was not fined because he has no money. The government claims car dealers in 30 states gave $15 million in kickbacks to executives from 1979 to 1992, when the cars were in short supply but hot demand. Prosecutors have called the case the nation's largest kickback scam. Billmyer con­tended the $840,000 in cars, money, swimming pools and other expensive gifts he got from dealers were presents. Josleyn admitted receiving $1.2 million from dealers as well as from advertising and training seminars, but he claimed Honda considered the perks compensation for poor salaries. 
FDA approves drug for bone disorders 
WASHINGTON 
The first non-hormonal drug for osteoporosis -the brittle bone disorder common among women after menopause -has received Food and Drug Administra­tion approval. One expert said it promises a "new era" for millions with the disease. The FDA announced ap­proval Monday of alendronate, which can be used by women unable to tolerate estrogen and has been shown to reduce fractures and help build healthy bone. "This approval is very important," said Sandra Raymond, a founding director of the National Osteoporosis Founda­tion. "This means that physicians and patients enter a new era with a broader array of treatment options for osteoporosis." Osteoporosis is a thinning and weakening of bone that strikes about a third of all women after menopause. About 25 million Americans have some form of the disorder and 80 percent of them are women, said Raymond. Some 7 million to 8 million women with a se­vere form of the disease experience spontaneous frac­tures, usually of bones in the back. 
BISSI[nl 
SHOWERS  RAIN  T-STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  Pr. CLOUU>'  CLOUU>'  
58 51 45 55 52  Dallas 92 Denver 64 Los Angeles 75 Miami 86 Minneapolis 70  72 36 62 72 52  New Orleans 85 New Yolk 85 Phlladelphla69 Phoenix 90 St. Louis 72  64 53 53 85 45  

0 1995 AccuWeather. Inc. 
.JAl_ ~ ,I\ 
0~§¥ ~~ 

Tuesday, October 3, 1995 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Keller: Learning colored by gender Lanan 

By BETSY BOWMAN 
News Writer 
Because women have not tra­ditionally held positions of in­fluence in the sciences, the ac­tual knowledge which science has obtained has been tainted, according to Evelyn Fox Keller, a professor in the science, tech­nology, and society program at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 
Keller addressed a group of students and faculty at DeBar­tolo Hall yesterday in a lecture entitled, "From Gender and Science to Language and Sci­ence." Keller has focused much of her recent study on the roles that gender and language have played in the development of modern science. 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 

Adworks makes pitch for new SMC office 
By ClAIRE HALBRITTER 
News Writer 
Student Activities Board (SAB) met last evening to brainstorm and discuss the events coming to the Saint Mary's campus, citing enter­tainment as one of SAB's main intentions. 
"Our goal is to provide Saint Mary's with quality entertain­ment, not to make money," said Mary Udovich, SAB presi­dent. 
The meeting began with a brief presentation by Adworks, a Notre Dame based group which does advertising for campus activities. Representatives spoke about the different types and prices of their products. They pro­duce posters, table-tents, dance tickets and T-shirts of all colors and sizes. Adworks has just opened an office in the Student Activities Office in Haggar Student Center. The office will be open every day from 3 to 5 p.m. 
SAB first discussed upcoming events: 
•"Quiz Show" will 'be playing at Saint Mary's this Friday and Saturday night at 7:00 and 
9:30 p.m. both evenings in Carroll Auditorium. 


SPRING BREAK 
OPEN HOUSE 
Tonight, Tuesday, October 3 Lower Level LaFortune, 7-9 p.m. 
A representative from Student Travel Services and agents will be available to answer questions about packages to Cancun, Jamaica and other spring break destinations 
Refreshments will be served 
Her research has gone be­yond the history of gender in­equity in the sciences to ex­plain how this inequity has af­fected the way that science has been practiced. 
Keller described the history of the scientific understanding of fertilization. In the early part of this century, the sperm (the male gamete) was consid­ered the active, forceful, self­propelled component of reproduction while the egg (the female gamete) was said to be passive. 
This comparison parallels di­rectly the typical social attitude toward men and women and gender issues in general. Later in the century, when women's rights became more socially acceptable, the definition of 
•Happy 
Hour is coming up this Thursday, October 5, from 5 p.m. to 6:30 p.m. Faculty and students are invited to lis­ten to singer, David Harris and enjoy food and mocktails. There is another Happy Hour tentatively scheduled for the month of November. 

•The 
SAB board will be participating in the mile and a half OKTOBERfest walk on Oct. 4 as a group activity. 

•Events 
which are on the cal­endar for the remainder of this semester are Blizzard of Bucks on Nov. 6 at 7:30 p.m. at Carroll Auditorium. Jim Wand, a hypnotist, will be vis­iting Saint Mary's on Nov. 30. 


SAB also brainstormed about what kinds of activities would appeal to students for next semester. There will be seven movies shown by SAB next semester, one of which will be shown during women's week, and will pertain to women's is­sues specifically. 
SAB is also looking into a Valentine's Day event featuring piano music performed by George Maurer accompanied by dessert and ~offee. This would possibly take place in Stapleton Lounge at the end of January or early February. 
fertilization was then "cast in the light of equal opportunity." 
Keller cited one such defini­tion of fertilization as, "the pro­cess by which the sperm and egg find one another and are fused." She concluded that "it cannot be merely coincidence that the shift in the scientific metaphor coincides almost per­fectly with the shift in the social metaphor." 
Keller explained that not only do gender and language affect our popular understand­ing of the sciences, but they actually deeply influence ex­actly what science is done: what questions are asked and what experiments are per­formed. 
For example, during the 30's and 40's American biologists 


RAD program combats campus sexual assualt 
By KATIE KELLER 
News Writer 
Imagine leaving the library after a long night of studying. Certainly there are options to get home safely, but wouldn't it be nice to defend yourself with­out having to be afraid? 
Notre Dame Security/Police (NDSP) is now providing a new option for women to empower themselves with the Rape Ag­gression Defense Program (RAD). 
RAD, a one-week compre­hensive program, offered twice this semester, will provide in­formation on how to avoid sex­ual assault and risky situa­tions, as well as teach physical tactics and provide simulation of actual attacks. Notre Dame police officers will instruct the students. 
According to Phil Johnson, assistant director of security, the major goal of RAD is to "make women feel confident in resisting aggressive assaults." Johnson describes the tech­niques taught as, "simple, not martial arts." 
Richard Starrman, also of Notre Dame security, stressed that the techniques taught are "real skills they can use every­day while they (students) are at Notre Dame and after they leave." 
9:58 a.m. A Farley Hall residant reported the theft of her license plate frorn her vehloie while parked In the 002 parking 


:;:~;~~-~1:~~~~r~I:f~t11::~~-· 
.12;41 p~m. A Carroll Hall re$1Qi)r\t re­ported the theft of his bike froM oul$ide the Knighl$ of Columbus Hall. His bike was tater found undamaged by Howard Hall. 
9:20 p.m. ASouth Bend resident was 

began to study more closely the cell nucleus and the sperm while virtually ignoring the cy­toplasm and the role that it plays in human development. 
This interest in the sperm and nucleus coincides with the interests of the male dominated science field. 
Keller believes strongly that the gender inequity in the sci­ences has been a serious prob­lem for both science and soci­ety as a whole, and that the "add women and stir" ap­proach will not resolve the problem. 
She added that her studies "have been aimed at liberating both science and women from the debilitating shackles of gen­der metaphors." 

RAD was offered for the first time at Notre Dame in the spring semester of last year. While response to the program has not been overwhelming, according to Johnson, NDSP plans to continue RAD and has hopes of expansion. 
Johnson added, however, that in talking with women who have completed the class "feedback has been extremely positive." 
Johnson first learned of RAD, which is a national program taught mainly at college cam­puses, through the New York Times. 
Because of the national nature of the program, stu­dents may choose to brush up on their skills after they leave Notre Dame. 
Starrman said that the pro­gram was initially instituted by NDSP as part of their overall goal to provide "a service to students to improve their per­sonal safety." 
This semester's sessions will be on Nov. 7, 9, 12 and Nov. 14, 16 and 19 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6-9 p.m., and Sundays from 12-6 p.m. Up to 20 women per session may sign up through Leanne Kling at 631-8338. The RAD session scheduled for this week has been canceled. 
license. was 

~to St. Joseph Medical Center 
torireatmant of inJuries sustained during a 
tali•. t:i 
$~j., SEPT~ ~0 
&:lljl p,m; A Howard Hall residant was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatrnant of an illness. 
1:36 p.m.· Security stopped two males In Cedar Grove Cemetery on a golf cart. They were asked to leave campus with the golf cart. 
praised for Dome work 
Special to The Observer 
Adele Lanan, assistant director of student activities at the University of Notre Dame, has been named win­ner of the College Media Advisers Distinguished Four­Year Yearbook Adviser Award. 
The award, CMA's highest honor in its division, recog­nizes Lanan's work as advis­er of the Dome, Notre Dame's ye.arbook. 
CMA is a national organiza­tion of more than 650 mem­bers who advise student newspapers, magazines, yearbooks and broadcast media at more than 300 four­year and two-year colleges and universities in the United States. 
Lanan said if advisers fol­low through on daily tasks and follow through on com­mitments, their students will learn to trust them. 
An adviser must be human by admitting mistakes and having as much respect for students as they expect from them, Lanan said. 
"If nothing else, advisers are role models," she said. 
Lanan will be honored at the nation's largest assembly of collegiate journalists and their advisers-the 71st annual Fall National College Media Convention. 
CMA joins Associated Collegiate Press in sponsoring the convention, Nov. 2-5, in Washington, D.C. 
She joined Notre Dame as an administrative assistant in 1982, and she became assis­tant director of student activi­ties in 1985. 
James Korczak, Lanan's yearbook editor, praised her for her dedication to her stu­dents. 
"In my personal experi­ence, Adele has illustrated extreme patience and valu­able guidance," Korczak said. "She has been an excellent supporter of our organiza­tion." 
SUN., OCT.1 
8:54 p.m. A university employee reported the theft of her handbag from her vehicle while parked in the A151ot. 
3:34 p.m. A Grace Hall resident was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center lor treatment of a sport& injury. 
3:56 p.m. A Grace Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet from his unlocked 
room. 
11 :30 p.m. AGrace Hall resident reported the theft of his wallet from his unlocked room. 
HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE 
THE OBSERVER 

CLASS I F I E D S. 

---~----------------.. 
Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
'15 








POW~~ 
Mu[ticu[tura£'E:tecutive Council 
MULTICULTURHL FHLL FESTIUHL 
CULTURE 
ON THE QUAD October 2-6 Fieldhouse Mall 4:30-6:00 p.m. Performances By: Native American 
Club Hawaiian Club Greek Club Filipino Club 
Troop NO 
Fireside Chats 
October 2-6 .. Women in the Rrts.. Notre Dame Room, LaFortune 
12:15-1:15 p.m. Monday: Professor Lyonga Tuesday: Professor Alice Cheang Wednesday: Sonya Gernes Thursday: Diana Mythyus Friday: Jill Godmillow 
TASTE OF NATIONS 
Friday, October 6 
8:00 p.m. Stepan Center 

Entertainment by Sabor Latino 
SPECIAL 

EUENTS 

October3 102 DeBartolo 7:00p.m. Eun-Sook Lee 
OctoberS Ball Room 7:00p.m. John Ole Tome 

Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS page 5 




Senate to resume investigation 
By PETE YOST 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Rejecting a plea from the Whitewater prosecutor, the Senate will resume its investi­gation of the Clintons' real es· tate venture. with public·hear· ings late this month on how the White House and federal officials handled tho contro· versy. 
In a strong signal that his criminal probe of President and Mrs. Clinton is far from over, Whitewater prosecutor Kenneth Starr unsuccessfully urged the Senate to limit the scope of its inquiry. 
Among the issues Starr said would be hindered by a Senate investigation is the ongoing in· qulry of Clinton's 1990 cam­paign for governor. That Investigation hns focused on deputy White House counsel Bruce Lindsey. 
But Sens. Alfonse D'Amato and Paul Sarbanes wrote Stnrr on Monday that the Senate "should not delay its investigation" -that the interests of the Whitewater prosecu.t~r "do not out')¥eigh 
The Multicultural Executive Council, in association with the the Pan African Cultural Center, Presents 
John Ole Tome, a Masai Warrior & Cultural Entertainer from Kenya Speaking at Notre Dame 

A Night of Masai Culture, Wisdom, Songs, and Dance. The Masai are a unique people of Kenya and Tanzania, East Africa. Presented by The Multicultural Executive Council in cooperation with The Pan-African Cultural Center and The Salon of Friendship. 
LaFortune Ball Room, Thursday, October 5, 1995,7:00 PM. A Reception will follow. Free of charge! 
the Senate's strong interest" in finishing its work by February. 
Hearings beginning in late October will deal with whether: 
•Federal 
officials improperly communicated to the White House information regulators were assembling about Madi· son Guaranty, a failed Arkansas savings and loan owned by the Cllntons' Whitewater real estate part­ners. 

•The 
Justice Department improperly handled material the regulators' gathered on the S&L. 

•Regulatory 
staffers were prevented by their superiors from looking into Madison Guaranty or Whitewater. 

•Sworn 
testimony of wit· nesses was improperly re· leased to the White House in advance of Senate Whitewater hearings a year ago. 


In a letter last Wednesday, Starr said he is still scrutiniz· ing the lending activities of an Arkansas bank in Clinton's 1990 .;ampaign for governor and the "activities. invest· ments and tax liabUiti' of 


Congress to crack down on immigrant benefits 
By JENNIFER DIXON 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
If Republicans get their way, people who renege on promises to support immigrant relatives could be forced to repay the government for any pub­lic assistance those family members receive. 
It's one way that Congress is trying to crack down on health and welfare benefits paid to more than a million non-citizens. 
Lawmakers may go even fur­ther and decide to bar lower­paid Americans from bringing immigrant family members into the country -a problem for military personnel who marry while stationed abroad. 
The crackdown on legal im­migrants who wind up on wel­fare is part of a larger effort by Congress to cut federal spend-ing by billions of dollars, undo the social programs of the New Deal and Great Society, and turn responsibility for the poor over to the states. 

People who want to come to America, said Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, "should come legally, and with their sleeves rolled up, ready to go to work, and not to come live off the fruits of some­one else's labor." 
The House passed its welfare overhaul in March; the Senate followed in September. 
Many specifics of the legisla­tion must be worked out by House and Senate negotiators, but the bottom line is the same: millions of legal immigrants eventually will lose their right to receive a wide range of public benefits, from food stamps and cash to disability payments and non-emergency health care. 

Under both bills, the families who bring these immigrants to the United States will be held to the promises they have made to support their relatives. Today, such promises are not legally binding due to court decisions. 
People who sponsor an im­migrant relative would be re­quired, subject to a $5,000 penalty, to notify authorities whenever the sponsors move. The sponsors also could be held liable for the costs of any services or benefits provided to the immigrant by public assis­tance programs. 
Congressional auditors esti­mate 1.4 million legal immi­grants are enrolled in two wel­fare programs, Supplemental Security Income and Aid to Families with Dependent Chil­dren. 
"The party is over," said Sen. Rick Santorum, H-Pa. "Should we be the only country in the world providing assistance to people who come here under a contractual arrangement say­ing they won't become wards of the state? If you sign a docu­ment, live up to it." 
One provision in the Senate bill would bar lower-and mid­dle-income American families, who account for just under half of the population, from sponsoring an immigrant. Families would need to have an income of twice the poverty level -approximately $31 ,200 for a family of four -to be eli­gible to bring in an immigrant. 
Josh Bernstein of the National Immigration Law Center said lower-paid military men and women who "meet the love of their life while sta­tioned abroad" would not be able to bring that person to the United States if the measure becomes law. 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 3, 1995 

Guide

China: U.S. agrees to limit Taiwan visits 
continued from page 1 

By KATHY WILHELM Associated Press 
BEIJING 
China said today the United States has agreed to tough re­strictions on visits by Taiwan's leaders that bar them from making political speeches. The White House denied Beijing's claim. 
"We did not" place restric­tions, presidential spokesman Mike McCurry said. "To limit a person's freedom of speech is contrary to American values." 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said today that President Clinton would meet with President Jiang Zemin of China in New York on Oct. 24. 
Concerning visits by Taiwan's 

Center 

continued from page 1 
facility can be emulated in similar centers nationwide because it will allow others to implement rebuilding pro­grams for its guests. 
"We hope that what we're doing here at the Center for the Homeless is not going to be limited to the confines of this facility. We hope the model we put in place is something which you [Cisneros] will be able to help us to share in Washington and other places who are strug­gling to go beyond merely warehousing homeless peo­ple," said Nanni. 
Nanni attributes much of the success of the Center and ~he honor. of being chosen as a training model for the country to the Notre Dame family and the strong ties between the two. 
Since its inception in 1988, scores of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have volunteered their time at the Center and to the activities promoting it. 
Student volunteers and the Notre Dame influence help keep the Center going, through their constant involvement in projects like the Irish Impact posters, the Homeless Center t-shirts and "Lula"palooza. the recent benefit at Lula's Cafe. 
"This [the Center] is defi­nitely something closely asso­ciated to the University of Notre Dame and is a credit to the Notre Dame family, and so too will the national training center," stated Nanni. "The partners·hip between· the University and local communi­ty contributes to what has made this center what it is." 
HUD and the South Bend Center have already begun the steps necessary to effectu­ate a training program. This Friday, Oct. 6, the Deputy Assistant HUD Secretary, Jackie Lawing, will travel to South Bend to observe a day at the center. She will learn more about the operations and take in more information to use in the implementation of the national model. 
In addition, the South Bend Center for the Homeless representatives, including Nanni, will participate in dis­cussions with Cisneros and Assistant HUD Secretary Andrew Cuomo next week, Oct. 12-13, in Washington, 
D.C. They will address issues concerning the national train­fog program and how to inake the South Bend Center a · model for others. 
Robert Ball, a guest at the Center for the Homeless con­tributed to this article. 
leaders, Christopher said he told the Chinese they would be "unofficial, private, rare" and that decisions on visits would be made "on a case-by-case" basis. 
Clinton originally invited Zemin to Washington for an of­ficial working visit; China balked at that, holding out for a full-blown state visit, an honor that Clinton has reserved for America's warmest allies. 
"We don't believe that our bi­lateral relationship (with China) at the moment is at a sufficient state of progress to warrant a state visit," McCurry said. 
Foreign Minister Qian Qichen said that if the White House lacks the "political will" to in­vite Jiang for a state visit, China would accept a meeting in New York. Chinese-U.S. relations have been on the mend in recent weeks after plummeting in May, when Washington agreed to let Taiwan's presi­dent. Lee Teng-hui, attend a reunion at Cornell University. China considers Taiwan a rene­gade province. 
While the supposed new re­strictions on contacts with Tai­wan do not fully satisfy China, Qian said they represent progress. Qian was quoted by Chinese news organizations whose reporters interviewed him Saturday in New York. 
Chinese-U.S. relations have been at a low since Lee's visit. Other problems have included China's detention ·of Chinese-American human rights activist Harry Wu, as well as U.S. dis­printing an edition this fall taste for China's weapons pro­became unattractive. liferation and human rights "We didn't want to waste abuses. money turning out a low quality 
Beijing also objects to Clin­product," Eifert said. ton's recent meeting with the Planners will make a concen­Dalai Lama, claiming it implied trated effort to produce The support for Tibetan indepen­Guide this spring, Patrick said. dence. "The money from this fall's 
The official Xinhua News budget will be rolled into the Agency quoted Qian as saying next semester," he said. 
U.S. officials pledged to restrict Both Patrick and Eifert hoped visits by Taiwan's officials dur­to work with the Provost's office ing a meeting last week be­to find ways to improve The tween Qian and Christopher. Guide. "We are going to work "They said, from now on, this on streamlining the whole pro­sort of thing is completely per­cess, hopefully to make it bet­sonal, very few in number, ex­ter," Patrick said. "We hope to ceptional and will be dealt with make it possible for The Guide 
case by case," Xinhua para­to be useful for students in the phrased Qian as saying. future," Patrick said. 


1ft,~··· 
.<oit•••al·airhit.and·
' ----··,. '. ,..,. ·... ' 

·....... 
.Md long·.distance callng.-_·--· Alo~ ·inJtqcfuctory 
• --. A-.I'&L.;.
interest .rate. tutu;._..,,)·· ,, .#,,,~, ~""""' 
pnsurpassed·sen'ke qnly Amirican Expr~ss can provide. So why seHie 
for-an on&nary ·aeclt. 
·:t• ' ·'· ••}"::
y 

carl? Dedare yoursel_ 
..:~ 

Tuesday, October 3, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page7 
Sheik moved to medical prison 
By lARRY NEUMEISTER 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
A day after being convicted of conspiring to wage holy war against the United States, Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman was moved Monday from New York to a medical prison in Missouri. 
One of his lawyers, Lynne Stewart, complained to U.S. District Judge Michael Mukasey that the blind sheik had been taken "to a peculiar­ly inaccessible part of the world." Later, she told r!Jporters her client had been taken "to Middle America, to Noplaceville." 
The sheik, who has diabetes and heart trouble, will be eval­uated at the U.S. Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Mo. 
He arrived there in a sedan guarded by police with assault weapons. 
After examining the sheik, doctors will decide which prison he will be sent to, prison spokesman Marty Anderson said. 
Abdel-Rahman was convict­ed Sunday along with nine others in a seditious conspira­cy plot to attack the United States through bombings, assassinations and kidnap­pings. lie could get life in prison without parole when he is sentenced in late January. 
The judge told defense lawyers he could do nothing about the sheik's move to the maximum-security prison in Springfield, which has 922 in­mates. 
Another one of the sheik's lawyers, Abdeen M. Jabara, said the early morning move was "a form of harassment basically" and the distance from his lawyers will make .it harder for the sheik to pre­pare for sentencing and begin work on his appeal. 
In Fayoum, Egypt, two of the sheik's sons called their fa­ther's conviction unjust, saying he had telephoned Monday to tell them about it. 
Abdallah Abdel-Rahman, 20, and 18-year-old Abdel­Rahman Omar Abdel-Rahman spoke on the doorstep of the family's home, where the sheik's two wives and 10 chil­dren live. 
Abdallah said his father told them to be patient and pray. 
"We are not surprised be­cause the United States is the enemy of Islam," Abdallah said. 
The sheik's co-defendants remained at the Metropolitan Correctional Center here, where defendant Ibrahim El­Gabrowny watched football games Sunday with about 20 other inmates after the verdict was returned. 
A fellow inmate, Arthur Morrison, said a news brief during the games infotmed prisoners of the convictions of all defendants. 
"He just smiled and he said, 'All praises are due to Allah,'" Morrison recalled. "There was a moment of silence in the TV room." 

TERROR TRIAL 
A Federal jury Sunday convicted SheikOmar Abdei-Rahman and nine Muslim radicals of conspiracy to frighten the United States into changing its Middle East policies. A look at Abdei-Rahman's trial verdict. 


COUNT ONE: SEDITIOUS CONSPIRACY• 

GUILTY 
COUNT TWO: SOLICITATION TO MURDER EGYPTIAN PRESIDENT HOSNIMUBARAK 

GUILTY 
COUNT THREE: CONSPIRACYTO MURDER EGYPTIAN PRESIDENT HOSNIMUBARAK 

GUILTY 
COUNT FOUR: SOLICITATION TO ATTACK MILITARY INSTALLATION 

GUILTY 
COUNT FIVE: BOMBING CONSPIRACY 

GUILTY 
•Rarely used Civil War era charge that makes It a crime to wage war against the United States or to oppose by force the authority of the United States. 
AP 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 
7asle 

FOOD AND ENTERTAINMENT FROM AROUND THE WORLD 
Come fo/n /he fun/ ~fop by before 0J)!J?"s andYormals / Xcko/1 fhe weebend/n a un/rue way andbr/ng allyourjr/ends/ 

Oponsored6y: J/(uflicufluraf0xeculiue Council 
Featuring: Sabor Latino, Voices ofFaith, Main Street Rockerettes, and a great night offun, dance, food and music! 
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1995 M P.M.-12 A.M. STEPAN CENTER ADMISSION: $1 
Israel's right wing meets with opposition 
By DAN PERRY 
Associated Press 

TEL AVIV 
Right-wing firebrand Moshe Feiglin advised fellow militants gathered in a hotel basement that they had a problem: Is­raelis seem indifferent to the once-dreaded prospect of a Palestinian state. 
Such an eventuality was un­thinkable to the 40 activists, mostly West Bank settlers, lis­tening to Feiglin. 
But it was business as usual throughout the land after Israel agreed to hand the Palestinians control over West Bank towns that many religious Jews con­sider an inseparable part of their country. 
There wasn't even enough outrage to stage planned mass protests to block Israel's high­ways last Thursday, the day the expanded autonomy agree­ment was signed in Washington. 
"It's every commander's nightmare: I said, 'Follow me,' and found myself alone,'' said Feiglin, a 33-year-old U.S.-edu­cated computer scientist who heads the Zu Artzenu (This Is Our Land). 
He attributed the failure to a tough police response to such past protests: "People just don't want to fight the police and get arrested anymore." 
Most right-wing rallies, in­cluding a well-publicized cam­paign of illegal encampments on West Bank hilltops, attract­ed at most hundreds. The masses of veteran, secular Israelis, even those with reser­vations about the peace process, stayed home. 
At the fore of these demon­strations are activists like those listening to Feiglin last week in a beachfront Tel Aviv hotel. Most are Jewish settlers in the West Bank and Gaza Strip who opposes Israeli withdrawal for security reasons; many also oppose relinquishing West Bank land out of religious or nationalist ideology. 
But they are far from a cross­section of Israel. 
Zeev Sternhal, a political sci­entist at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, maintained the sanguine atmosphere indicated "there isn't, and probably never was, a determined rna­jority favoring permanent con­trol of the territories." 
"There is a deepening recog­nition that there is no serious alternative to the policy of com­promise," he wrote in the Haaretz daily. 
In fact, a narrow majority of Israelis, about 55 percent, say they support the peace process, and only about a quarter of ve­hemently against it, said poll­ster Hanoch Smith. 
"Not too many people other than the settlers have a very special connection" to the West Bank and Gaza, Smith said. "An overwhelming majority say they haven't even been there recently." 
But opponents of a Palestinian state warn not to count them out just because the strength of their protests is waning. 
Leaders of the main opposi­tion party, Likud, suspect their traditional supporters, who tend to be respectful of author­ity, recoil from the sight of sol­diers dragging protesters off hilltops and scuffles with police. 
They note that most polls nonetheless show the opposi­tion stands an even chance of unseating Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in elections scheduled for November 1996. 
Likud leaders planned a more conventional mass rally in Jerusalem this Thursday, just as Parliament is to vote on the West Bank accord. 
But while some right-wing politicians still speak of a Palestinian state in apocalyptic terms, Likud head Benjamin Netanyahu refuses to say he would repeal the autonomy ac­cords. 
Aides hint they might accept Palestinian rule on some of the West Bank if other areas could be salvaged. 
Future Likud rallies report­edly will focus on land even Ra­bin wants to keep as part of a future final peace deal, such as the Jordan River Valley and ar­eas around Jerusalem. 
Eve Harow, an activist in the Efrat settlement just south of Jerusalem, said many people have concluded the govern­ment is ignoring demonstra­tions and therefore intend to "just wait it out until the next elections." 

NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
TI-IE Il\~IAG INARY INVALID 
' e I : I , TRANSLATED AND DIRECTED BY REV. DAVID GARRICK, C.S.C. 
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4 ... 8:00 P.M. fRIDAY, OcT. 6 ........... 8:00 P.M. THURSDAY, OCT. 5 ......8:00P.M. SATURDAY, OCT. 7 ...... 8:00P.M. SUNDAY, OCT. 8 ......... 2:30P.M. 
PLAYING AT WASHINGTON HAll • RESERVED SEATS $8 STUDENT AND SENIOR CITIZEN DISCOUNTS 
TICKETS ARE AVAILAILI AT THE DOOR OR IN ADVANCE AT THE LAfORTUNE STUDENT CENTER TICKET OFFICE. MASTERCARD AND VISA ORDERS CALL 631-8128 
pages The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
By LINDA DEUTSCH 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Refusing to meet O.J. Simpson's gaze, 12 jurors filed back into the courtroom Monday to confirm they had reached ver­dicts after less than four hours, a stunning­ly swift resolution to a sensational murder case that took more than eight months to present. 
Their decision shocked the courtroom and a nation already busy debating how many weeks the jurors might be out. Supe­rior Court Judge Lance Ito said the verdicts would be read Tuesday at 10 a.m. PDT. 
As the 10 women and two men of the jury med into court at 2:55 p.m., Simpson stood and stared at them. None looked his way. 
·The judge then announced the startling news. He said his court clerk told him that the panel had made its decision. 
"Is that correct?" he asked. 
"Yes," said the jury forewoman. 
There were gasps in the hushed court­
room. 
Lawyers on both sides seemed almost 
dazed by the speed of the verdict. 
"Surprise doesn't begin to describe my feelings. I am stunned at the speed," defense attorney Carl Douglas said. 
Prosecutor Christopher Darden, asked if he could believe the rapid end to delibera­tions, said, "I think I have to believe it. It's happening. Nothing shocks me anymore." 
The announcement came after jurors asked for and heard a brief repetition of testimony from a limousine driver that con­cerned the time when Simpson was picked up for a ride to the airport on the night of two murders. 
Ito, who had sent jurors from the court­room after the reading, seemed startled when three loud buzzes sounded in the courtroom, signaling jurors had reached a verdict. He was entertaining a group of vis­itors in the courtroom when the word came but quickly summoned lawyers and con­vened court with only a few reporters pre­sent. 
The jury forewoman also appeared a bit 
rattled. Asked for the verdict forms, she 
said she had signed them, placed them in 
an envelope, sealed it and left them in the 
deliberation room. 

Ito sent her to fetch the envelope, which 
was then placed in the hands of a court 
bailiff and stored for safekeeping 
overnight. 

Ito said he was delaying reading the ver­
dicts to give all attorneys time to return to 
court for the climactic moment. Jurors 
nodded and smiled understandingly. 
"Ladies and gentlemen, have your last 
pleasant evening," he told them, suggest­
ing they use the time to pack their belong­
ings. 

As they med out, Simpson rose again and 
watched grim-faced as the jurors left. 
When it was time for .him to return to jail, 
he dropped his pen on the defense table 
and left the room with a somber expres­
sion. 

No members of Simpson's family or the 
families of victims Nicole Brown Simpson 
and Ronald Goldman were in court. 
It was one of the fastest verdict decisions 
in memory for such a long, high-profile 
trial, indicating that once the sequestered 
jury broke its silence about the case, the 
panelists found they were all in agreement. 
If they had any doubts, they were appar­
ently answered by the re,reading of testi­
mony from limousine driver Allan Park, 
who gave a precise, minute-by-minute 

If Simpson is convicted, Judge Lance Ito would set a sentencing hearing, probably within 30 days. All murder convictions in California are automatically appealed. 

Jurors cannot come to a decision. The District Attorney co~ld. r~trySimpson on any undecided charges. Simpson would rema1n Jailed pending retrial. 
1rhejury ·-----··-··--·----------------------------·
"Aiih~~gh1oj~~~~-h~~~-b~~n dismissed sin~e the t~ia~ began, the_j~ry that will decide Simpson's fate is demographically s1m1lar to the ongmal 12-person panel. 






ftttOttttttOft 
BLACK BLACK BLACK WHITE BLACK BLACK BLACK BLACK BLACK BLACK WHITE HISPANIC 44 25 72 61 45 29 53 51 39 38 23 33 


account of his efforts to rouse Simpson for a trip to the airport the night of the mur­ders. 
Stern-faced and dressed casually, the jurors spent about 75 minutes listening to court reporter Janet Moxham read Park's testimony about his arrival at Simpson's estate. When the judge gave Moxham a tO­minute break, the jury forewoman quickly sent a note saying they had heard enough. 
All they heard was testimony that prose­cutors suggested jurors review: Park's descriptions of phone calls he made to his boss and mother and his efforts to summon a response from Simpson by ringing a bell at the gate to his Rockingham Avenue estate. 
Three jurors took copious notes, particu­larly during the testimony about Park's 
10:52 p.m. call from his boss -a crucial time in the prosecution's reconstruction of what happened the night of June 12, 1994. 
Those jurors also took notes during Park's descriptions of the lighting at the estate. 
The jury's request to rehear testimony was the first disclosure that the panelists had selected as forewoman the juror who sits in seat No. 1. She is a black woman in her early 50s who said in jury selection that she had no opinion on Simpson's guilt or innocence but respected him as an indi­vidual "based on his past accom­plishments." 
When Ito disclosed that the jurors had asked for Park's testimony of March 28, defense attorney Douglas pointed out that 
AP 

the day's testimony ended in the middle of cross-examination. He asked that the read­ing continue through conclusion of defense questioning the following court day. Ito agreed. 
Moxham sat in the witness chair and began reading from the transcript at 1:10 
p.m. PDT. Deliberations had begun at 9:40 a.m. 
Simpson was brought from jail to attend the open court session, and he and Douglas were the only ones at the defense table normally occupied by an army of attorneys. 
The prosecution was represented by Deputy District attorneys Darden and William Hodgman. 
Prosecutor Marcia Clark wasn't present. But during summations last week, it was she who told jurors that the recollections of the young limousine driver point the finger of guilt in Simpson's direction. 
Park testified in March, early in the trial, and it is conceivable that jurors had forgot­ten exactly what he said. 
"This is a positive sign for the prosecu­tion, but don't read too much into it," Loyola University law professor Laurie Levenson had said before it was learned a verdict had been reached. "Allan Park came very early in the case. They just may be trying to set the timeline." 
reject GOP Medicare 
By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Most Democrats walked out of a House Commerce Commit­tee hearing today on the Re­publican plans for major surgery on Medicare, saying they refused to participate "in this charade." 
The first formal House hear­ing on the Republican plan to squeeze $270 billion from Medicare had taken place in a circus atmosphere, with law­makers from parties playing to the cameras. 
Rep. Thomas Bliley, Jr., R­Va., the chairman, said Medi­care's trustees had sounded a "code blue" for the program last spring, and that the Democrats were ignoring its need for major surgery. 
Rep. John Dingell, D-Mich., led the walkout after arguing in vain for hearings on the GOP plan. 
"The Democratic members of the coriunittee see no reason to participate further in this cha­rade, which will rob seniors of their health care." said Dingell. "We suggest that you enjoy a pleasant day." 
But some Democrats stayed when Dingell left. Bliley called a brief recess, then resumed the hearing to hear from other lawmakers, including Rep. Blanche Lambert Lincoln, D­Ark. "In the end, (seniors) are counting on us to do the right thing," she said. 
Senate Democrats, mean­while, unveiled an outline of their alternative Medicare res­cue plan. They said they would seek $89 billion in savings ­one-third of what the GOP wants -to push back the bankruptcy of the Medicare hospital fund from 2002 to 2006. 
Daschle said the Democrats 
offered "a sensible solution" in 
contrast to "the radical and 
extreme plans proposed by the 
Republicans." 

He said Medicare "premiums 
and deductibles would stay the 
same" under the Democrats' 
approach. He said they would 
seek to make seniors pay 25 
percent of the costs of 
Medicare Part B, which pays 
doctor bills. 

Currently, they are paying 
31.5 percent of the costs with premiums of $46.10 a month. Their proposal would allow the premium to rise to $92 by 2002. 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
.

Amencan Heart v,. 
Association~ 
F1ghtu1g Hurt DISease 
•ndSiroks 

Happy
A Call to Arms: Check Blood 


Angers, France
21st

Pressure. 
1996-1997 Academic Year 
"Should I Stay -or Should I Go?" 
With




ill Piper! 
Professor Paul McDowell Tuesday, October 3, 199 5 
7:00pm
Love, 

Room 117 O'Shaughnessy 


Heather & Erin 
Returning students will be on hand to answer Question Au ARE WELCOME/ 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
.Editor-in-Chief 
John Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Po!!<r Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager ...................... )en Mackowiak Sporu Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary'• .Editor .................... Pa!!i Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, . Viewpoint Ediror, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 !)jews/Photo. 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
:;>Ji IN ill IR ('))I
Genera11nformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• AND IN THIS CORNER 
Federal Student Loans: the price of intellectualism 
Last week I seem to have hit a collec­tive nervous reaction. My thanks to all the e-mailers; write all you want, we'll make more. 
Ipso absurdum: 
Subtly segueing into today's first topic, beer actually has nothing to do with fed­eral student loans -I just wanted to comment briefly on 
upon the Stafford loan program which allows millions of students to afford col­lege. The University of Notre Dame and many if not most colleges have already expressed a desire to stay with the cur­rent program. 
Question: does this concern you, the student? A seemingly easy question, but one with many 
Notre Dame's alcohol ramifications. policy. To wit: According to Jeff "Intoxication...is a Pethick of the ND violation of the stan­Financial Aid dards of the Office, 43% of all
Matthew 
University of Notre undergraduates Dame ... ," i.e., drunk­receive assistance
Apple
enness is ~immoral" in the form of and therefore Stafford loans. deserving of punish-These student ment in the form of loans have limits 
"severe sanctions." 
These forbidding words appear in the same pamphlet as brief ads for coun­seling services and toll-free hotlines. This is what you might call a "mixed message," something I find very typical of the Catholic Church. It offers punish­ment instead of compassion and under­standing -"There is no compelling ev­idence that it is necessary to experiment with drunkenness to discover its harm­ful effect." 
Uh huh. Sure, Father. 
Not to mention "grain alcohol" is con­sidered ipso facto alcohol abuse, I'm al­most positive this is supposed to mean "moonshine," but it can be unfor­tunately interpreted as Vodka or other liquors which all taste superb with kahlua and/or Bailey's. 
And, of course, it is not entirely accu­rate to claim that these policies stem from the concerns of a "Christian com­munity." Better to say "religious" or pos­sibly "humanistic" (if I may be so bold). 
Grace under Fire: 
Quickly changing gears, we shift into the Federal Student Loan debate. As many of you may know. the Contract on America Congress is considering a bill which would impose certain restrictions 
per year and their 8% interest is paid by the Federal Government while the student is in school. Upon graduation, a student has a six month grace period before loan payments with 10 percent begin. 
Thus the proposed bill would affect nearly half of all Notre Dame undergraduates; this bill would not only impose a two percent fee on all colleges whose students have Stafford loans, a fee that would be passed on to the stu­dents, but it would also eliminate the grace period entirely. There's nothing like a diploma wrapped in a bank state­ment. 
Very few students find a full-time job immediately following graduation, and those who can find one do not need an immediate loan payment to add to the already high-blood pressure tensions at the beginning of an independent life. 
There are still alternatives. Banks allow "deferments" and "forbearances" to delay payments if you can't find a full-time job. The Peace Corps will pay some of your loans if you live in a thatchroof hut for two years. The Armed Forces will willingly cover all your debts to get. their hands on another warm body. Or you could go to grad school. 
Tax-cut and defund: 
Graduate students are in a much dif­ferent position as far as money is con­cerned, because while some parents (the majority of Notre Dame parents, it seems) are willing to foot the bill of a four-year degree, the graduate student is generally on his or her own. So until the coveted T.A. comes along, it's back to student loans we go. 
However. Newt's good ole boys are obviously determined to make students avoid graduate school; he wants grad students to pay the interest on their loans while they're still in school. This, he claims, will save billion of dollars to help offset the oh-so-conservative "mid­dle-class tax-cut" and the increase in defense spending. Never mind that grad school is difficult enough without having to work part-time to pay for these little supply-side foibles. 
To me it appears that when you com­bine this bill with the planned defunding of the NEH and NEA, the agenda becomes clear: a calculated assault on the humanities and arts, any program of studies or professions which devotes itself to the contemplation of human existence. Intellectual pursuits. in other words. 
Everyone already knows how difficult it is for those with humanities degrees to find high-paying jobs (or even jobs at all sometimes). With this bill, a message is being sent to students that they are expected to make money right away. and the best way to do this is to go into the world of business or law. Therefore students will clamor to take these cours­es, if they don't already, lowering the demand for humanities teachers and leaving more humanities graduates un­employed. 
This scheme has the added bonus of encouraging the attitude that the arts and humanities are "leeches" on society, that they "don't really work" like nor­mal. tax-paying citizens. It's the American Cultural Revolution, the conservative ideal of a soulless, stream­lined society (of. Brave New World. one of many "morally offensive" books cur­rently banned in conservative public schools around the nation). You can't go to college in America simply to learn; you have to learn how to make money­the "American Dream." 
It is to Notre Dame's credit that the University requires undergraduates to take theology and philosophy courses; not many major universities would have the courage or vision to do so. Nevertheless, everyone at Notre Dame needs to realize the ramifications of this blatantly high income elitist bill: it is a subtle and insidious assault on academic freedom and cultural awareness. 
How much longer are universities going to be able to offer programs of their choosing if they have to stay on the good side of the politically powerful? How much longer can it be before uni­versities need virtual governmental approval for their curriculum? 
And for those families who lack the collateral for parental loans, whose chil­dren must borrow to attend college, this act is tantamount to intellectual and cul­tural genocide. If you come from a poorer family and you're not in the top 1% of students nationwide. you might just as well forget going to college. College is for the well-to-do, the upper­middle-class white 2.2 children families, the private prep school students, the future 
Wall Street executives and corporate lawyers. The disadvantaged might just as well spend every waking moment training for popular team sports; even if they don't make it all the way to the pros, they'll still stand a better chance of being on a Burger King cup in ten years than of affording an increasingly useless B.A. 
Matthew Apple is a creative writing graduate student at Notre Dame. Communication with the accused 'liberal pinko» is welcome at matthew. t. apple.[@, nd. edu. 
• OO.ONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 





VIEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
• WINTER OF MY DISCONTENT 
Scottish Independence Movement growing 
-SOMEWHERE IN THE WEST OF IRElAND, NEAR KILLARNEY 
A s I write this my traveling compan­.t-\..ions and I are lost-very lost....: somewhere in rural western Ireland. We simply wanted to take a day hike through the local national park, but a couple of wring turns later and we're at least 20 kilometers outside of town on what can best be described as a goat path. It's 5:30 in the evening, the sun is starting to set, we've got no camping supplies and I don't think the chances of hailing a cab are too good out here. 
Having already walked altogether too far for my liking today, we've stopped to rest for awhile. But rather than partici­pating in the group blame assignment session that's currently in process, I've decided to take out my notebook and start this column. Writing this now will fulfill the dou­ble purpose of tak­ing my mind ofT the pin in my lower Chris extremities and 
serving as my last Kratovil 
testament should I die of exposure tonight (I've attached the Ob­server's forwarding address so that any local fmding this on my frozen body can forward it). · 


P
But enough melodrama, especially since I'd actually like to comment on a' serious regional issue that gets next to no media attention in the United States, tlie Scottish ·national movement. Before coming to Ireland and getting lost· in this damn wilderness I had the opportunity to tour a good bit of Scotland. My travels carried me through Inverness in the Highlands, Edinburgh, Glasgow and even to the tiny isle of Arran off the Scottish West Coast. rior to embarking on this journey, I had only the vaguest notion about Scottish nationalism and its primary manifestation, the Scottish Nationalist Party (SNP). But having been exposed to that country and its people, I am increasingly convinced that a large number of Scots are absolutely serious about leaving-or at least fun­damentally altering their role in-the United Kingdom 
B
I suppose a little background informa­tion might be in order given the obscuri­ty of the subject. As you know, Scotland and England are separate and very dif­ferent countries; slipping and referring to a Scotsman as "English" is probably the fastest way I know of to start a bar brawl. The political union between England and Scotland was a gradual process, beginning with the ascension of a Scottish monarch to the English throne in the wake ofT Elizabeth I's death in the early 17th century. The union was com­pleted almost a century later in 1707 when the Scottish Parliament ceased to exist and was integrated into the English Parliament at Westminster. ut despite these centuries of political affiliation with the much more numerous English, Scotland remains a 
distinct society. The 
differences between 
the two nations may 
seem initially subtle 
but are pervasive; 
the Scots use their 
own currency, have 
a completely dif­
ferent educational 
system, are general­
ly Presbyterian 
rather than Anglican and have their own national sports teams (which are in fact heated rivals with the English). Even the flag of the English-Scottish unification, the "Union Jack", is rarely seen in Scotland, with the native Cross of St. Andrew being much more common. 
My first visit to Scotland happened to coincide with two important events for the Scottish independence movement; the SNP's party conference and the opening of Mel Gibson's movie Braveheart in the UK. While parts of the SNP conference were carried live on the BBC for the firs time ever, Gibson's movie about the struggle for Scottish freedom in the 13th century was received by cheering crowds. Scottish cinema audiences allegedly gave stand­ing ovations to the film's depiction of William Wallace's victories over the English at Stirling and Falkirk, and the SNP has been using the film in its politi­cal propaganda. 
M
y first personal encounter with the Union. drive for Scottish independence Even the argument that Scotland is came in Edinburgh when I passed a economically dependent on its member­booth across from the old Parliament ship in the UK holds little water with the building decked out in blue and white SNP. They like to point out that an inde­banners that proclaimed-"Scots-Rise pendent Scotland within the European and be a Nation once more!" The two Union, with its common market and guys manning the booth were both SNP forthcoming common currency, would members and I was in-enjoy basically the trigued enough to talk same economic rela­to them for a bit, and in tionship to England fact later ended up visit­that it does today.
' My first visit to 
ing a Scottish national­They also note that
Scotland hap­
ist watering whole nations smaller than (where a sign above the pened to coincide with even an independent bar quoted Wall ace as Scotland would be,
two important events 
saying: "As long as such as Luxembourg there's a hundred of us for the Scottish inde-and Denmark, are left it's enough to resist prospering rather
pendence movement; 
the English dogs!") nicely as individual 
What I learned from the SNP's party confer­EU members. all of this was that the ence and the opening Despite all this, SNP is not a fringe complete Scottish
of Mel Gibson's movie 
movement; in the last independence anytime few general elections Braveheart in the UK. soon seems extremely it's gotten around 1/3 of unlikely to me. A 300 
While parts of the SNP
the Scottish vote; mak­year Union, no matter ing it the second largest conference were car­how bitter the enmity party in the country that proceeded it, is a
ried live on the BBC for
behind only Labour. difficult thing to sud­The SNP has, in any tJie firs time ever, denly sever. More given Parliament of likely seems another
Gibson's movie about 
recent years, a double­attempt at giving
the struggle for 
digit number of MP's in Scotland a greater de­the House of Commons. Scottish freedom in the gree of autonomy 
However. its' official within the UK or some
13th century was 
platform is quite radi­sort of "Home Rule". al-the complete and received by cheering Perhaps what we are immediate inde­witnessing is not the
crowds. Scottish cin­
pendence of Scotland. birth of an indepen­At first I found this ema audiences alleged­dent Scotland, but desire for secession rather the beginnings
ly gave standing ova­
from the modern UK of true British federal­bafTling-isn't that a bit tions to the film's ism. like, say, Oregon trying depiction of William Epilogue: Not long to leave the U.S.? after completing a
Wallace's victories ..." 
There's not even a sin­hand-scribbled ver­gle mega-issue, such as sion of this piece, my slavery in the US civil War context, driv­wayward companions and I managed to ing the two countries apart. stumble onto a paved road leading to 
But the SNP perceives thf) situation town. Still miles away from civilization, quite differently. They feel that Scotland we soon took to hitch-hiking and were gains little from its union with England, fortunately picked up by a friendly while putting its unique culture and her­German tourist who took us back to itage at risk. Like the Quebec separatists Kilarnney. in Canada, they fear the complete cul­tural assimilation of their nation by the Christopher Kratovil is a junior spend­more pervasive culture within the ing the semester in London. 
• lEnERS TO THE EDITOR 
CUNTON DEFENSE 
Columnist criticism misses mark 
I
Dear Editor: wealthiest two percent (while the tax rate would like to respond to Tuesday's, Sept. 26 increases for poor with the elimination of Earned Inside Column by Peter Lenardos. The author Income Tax Credits). has attempted to make five major points which I This brings us to the fourth point which is that President Clinton defmes rich
am more than happy to dispute. 
Number one is that Clinton would have lost without the independent bid by Ross Perot. Post-election polls in 1992 showed Perot voters about equally split between Bush and Clinton had the Texan not been running as an independent. Period. 
The second fallacy is that "many Clinton loyalists soon fol­lowed," as if to say that Clinton has lost his core support. This is not true. We, myself emphatical­ly included, comprise a base of support of between 40 and 45 percent of the American popula­tion. This support has not dwin­dled. Those of us who are true believers remain. 
If any one group can be clearly defined as having lost its sup­port, it is most definitely the new 
encourtter friendliness on student that I spoke coinplimt:lhts for our program and 
carnPtts tor a few hours, but nl.~ljes;ty jlltlprlBS$~111 me immeasurably. T~ University of Notre Dame TiP any otbe:t; university and most likely 
Republican Congress. While their flash in the pan support has dipped to the low 30s. President Clinton has gained in approval. 
Thirdly, while it is always true that Americans are ready for lower taxes, it is not true that Americans are ready for lower taxes for the 
'lA]hile this begs 
V \' the authors def­inition of plethora, it is true that there are a lot of extremist, right-wing Republicans seeking the office of the presi­dency. Apparently the author finds comfort in that and is willing to promote falsehoods in order to help the con­servative cause.' 
as those who make in excess of $32,500. Where does this blatant lie originate from? A quick glance at Mr. Clinton's 10-year balanced budget pro­posal shows that he defines the middle class, for purposes of a child tax credit as those 
families  earning  up  to  
$200,000.  
Finally,  a  "plethora  of  

Republican and Independent presidential hopefuls?" 
While this begs the authors definition of a plethora, it is true that there are a lot of extremist, right-wing Republicans seeking the office of the presidency. Apparently the author finds comfort in that and is willing to promote falsehoods in order to help the conservative cause. 
SCOITHAGEN 
Graduate Student Fischer Graduate Residences 



..... 
on the Internet would be a vio­approved, by a vote of 84-16, ., lation of the First Amendment. Exon's proposal to make it ille­"The First Amendment was gal to transmit pornography on designed to protect offensive computer networks which are speech, because no one ever accessible to children. The CDA tries to ban the other kind," he is part of the full says. Telecommunications Reform 
House Speaker Newt Gingrich Bill, which is presently under agrees with Stahlman. "It is consideration in the House. clearly a violation of free The future of the Internet's speech, and it's a violation of effectiveness, presumably, rides the right of adults to communi­on the outcome of the bill. It is cate with each other," he said ironic, however, that the future on a TV talk show. Civil liber­of pornography does not. It is tarians believe that the bill will safe and secure as ever. If the reduce the level of discussion government cracks down on the on the Internet to that of a electronic highway, pornogra­child's playroom. And it will phy will probably just find also, they assume, cause prob-another road to travel on. 
According to the Supreme Court (Miller vs. California, 1973), for something to be deemed obscene, it must fulfill three requirements: 
1.) Would the average person, using contemporary community standards, find the work as a whole to appeal to prurient interest? 
2.) Does the work depict/describe, in a patently offensive way, sexually explicit conduct as defined by state law? 3.) Does the work lack serious artistic, literary, political, or scientific value? 




ACCENT
page 12 Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
the 


work wonders; It.:S. actiVttl' iJuttedi[ent phorated phenokt~;,numbing agent, . · .·. · may also function as (l.n anti-viral agent. Phenol has been shown to denature or disfig­ure proteins so that they are no longer func· tional. a capability tbar'may contribute to phenol's ability to heal cold sores. 
Uck it with Lysine~Dr. Mark McCune, a dermatologist at Humana Hospital in· · · Overland Park, KaJisas. recommends; those victimslnf'U ·· \With thr~e qr .. sores a year, to s · #teticttheir tiaily · with 2,000·3,000 . grams of the amino acid lysine.. Lysine tan be found in dairy prod· ucts, potatoes, and brewer's yeast. (More beer?) Speaking of amino acids, it's also smart to avoid foods rich in arginine, since the herpes virus needs arginine for its metab· .· • olism. Arginine is found in chocolate, cola, peas, grain cereals, peanuts, gel(l.tin, cashews, and beet\;arid beer (did
that last one?}. ··· .· · 
uo..-._:t_.._g: o-..~ 
o~ ~II_e Uio8e~ 
By CHRIS MIGNANELLI 
Accent Writer 

T
here are many adaptations which one must make upon entering college. Adjusting to such a strange new world can be quite frightening and utterly confus­ing for a young and naive freshman. Finding your way around campus. learning to live with a roommate, being responsible for your own well­being, and countless other novelties bombard the new student as though he or she were under enemy attack. For most, over a period of time, these obstacles to sanity fade away as they begin to accustom themselves to college life. 
However, there is one dilemma which continues to frustrate many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, months and even years into their adjustment to leaving home. It is a question which is forever on the minds of Americans and is central to one's very being. Of course, this major problem of life in Notre Dame, Indiana is Lack Of Closet Space. 
In a nation that glorifies shopping and the importance of designer clothes, it is easy to find those who will lament for hours on the fact that there is never enough room to house their garments. Complaints on closet space are no rarity here at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, for many of the schools' rooms are not equipped with the storage space that students are used to at home. In order to decipher the magnitude of ND/SMC closet space troubles, students were asked: "Coming from the luxuries of life under your parents' roofs, are you satisfied with your closet accom­modations here at school?" 
"I have a closet?" Saint Mary's freshman Megan Mahoney replied without hesitation. A resident of Regina North, Mahoney was by far the most adamant in her condemna­tion of the school's closets. ''I'd con­sider a huge pole running across my room more useful than this," she proclaimed as she pointed with dis­gust to her undersized and overruled closet. A glance around her room at the number of trunks and drawers needed to house her wardrobe led to the realization that closets are more important to the college student than anyone might have thought. And, as Mahoney's barrage of reasons for the inadequacy of her closet demonstrat­ed, closet space is a very touchy sub­ject for some. "It's a very emotional and personal issue," she concluded. 
While many of the Saint Mary's students had closet complaints simi­lar to Mahoney's, there were a hand­ful who had nothing but praise to offer. Shelley Richter of Lemans has the good fortune to have a walk-in closet. "Not only do I have space for all of my clothes, but when the going gets tough with three roommates, I have a great hiding spot," she remarked. 
At Holy Cross, closet space also seems to appease its residents. While on the surface they do not look like much, upon opening the door, one sees the wonderful size and stor­age potential of the space. Courtney Oliver, a resident of Holy Cross, is more satisfied with her closet than is most of the student body. "There's lots of space. I was able to bring my fall and winter clothes." Oliver's roommate, Janece Marzano, agrees. "Compared to other dorms, ours is the best," she boasted. Of course, while their closet was adequate, the two did sneak in a complaint, saying the lack of a shoe rack does slightly perturb them. 
These satisfied customers were by far in the minority. For when the men begin to complain about room for their clothes, it must indeed be a campus-wide problem. The number one reason for dissent on the Notre Dame side of the issue can be defined in one word: wardrobes. Those delightful masses of rotting wood with such a practical and space-efficient design can be found in many of the University's older dor­mitories. Most of those blessed with a wardrobe spend the entire year attempting to place it in the right spot of their room. The common complaint about these structures is probably best represented by the words of Alumni Hall resident Chris King: "For taking up so much room, it sure is small." 
M
ost wardrobes consist of the fol­lowing: a short pole across the top for minimal use of hangers, and three shelves which are approxi­mately 6.3 millimeters apart and about thirty six feet deep. Needless to say, retrieving clothes that have been pushed to the back is quite a formidable task. John Roach, also of Alumni Hall. agrees that design is the primary problem. "For about one-third of the wardrobe, you can only hang clothes no longer than two feet. The shelves are ridiculously awkward and the overall structure is basjcally pathetic. We, at Notre Dame, have an annual operating budget of 365 million dollars and we can't provide adequate closets to house enough clothes for one per­son? Are we supposed to wear the same thing every day?" Obviously, closet space is a personal thing to college men as well as women. 
S
till, there are those who can find the bright side of having a wardrobe. Frank Daly, a freshman, confided that while he has virtually no room for all of his clothes, the ones he does have here are on dis­play because of the open front to the wardrobe. "If I could get· some girls into my room, they could see my pimp daddy, GQ smooth-style threads, and that would excite them," Daly rationalized. 
Matt Barkley has also found the sil­ver lining, "Having a wardrobe has led me to finally find use for my desk. Since there is not enough room in the wardrobe, my desk has become a second closet. The fact that my desk was just sitting there made me feel guilty. I'm much bet­ter now." While these crafty young men have found the blessings of a small closet, the fact still remains that the closets are too small. 
There are many pe-ople on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cam­puses who do not often ponder the state of their closet space. Still, the overwhelming majority look upon their closet space here at school each day with disdain and frustration. Closets do not always come up when one speaks of emotional health, but from what can be gathered through the words of students here, closets are an integral part of one's well­being. 
Knowing that you always have something fashionable to wear is as vital as knowing you will continue to breathe if your mind wanders from your breaths. So, it is clear: Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are well-equipped to handle any adjust­ments college or real world life may require...just don't mess with their closet space. 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Tuesday, October 3, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 


Bulls acquire Rodman 
ByRICKGANO 
AMociated Press 
DEERFIELD, Ill. 

Dennis Rodman, the flamboy­ant forward who led the NBA in rebounding the last four sea­sons but repeatedly exasper­ated San Antonio management, was traded Monday to the Chicago Bulls for center Will Perdue. 
"I think it's great, I think he's excited, I think it's a perfect fit," Neil Draddy, Rodman's agent, said. "They need some work off the boards and the extra defense he will give them." 
Draddy said he did not antici­pate Rodman having any off­court problems like the ones that have followed him during his nine-year career in Detroit and San Antonio. 
"I know he's spoken to Phil (Jackson, the coach) and Phil is comfortable with what Dennis is going to do. I think they will work out an arrangement be­tween the two of them and the team, and everything will work out just fine." 
Rodman, who's in the final year of his contract, will make $2.5 million this season. 
Rodman, as usual, was the premier force under the boards this season. But the 34-year­old forward, who is partial to multicolored hairdos, assorted body piercings and late-night soirees with Madonna, proved a constant irritant to the Spurs' front office. 
He was suspended during the season for insubordination and would often miss practice, his whereabouts unknown, and remove his basketball shoes while on the bench during games. 
"We are happy to acquire Dennis Rodman," Bulls general manager Jerry Krause. "We think he is the best rebounder in the game and the best defender at his position. He gives us a dimension we have lacked and enables us to take more advantage of the skills of Toni Kukoc." 
The Bulls, who in all certain­ty made the move with the ap­proval of Michael Jordan, also renounced rights to Pete Myers and Larry Krystkowiak. 
In acquiring Perdue, a 30­year-old part-time center and marginal player, San Antonio made it all too clear it was sim­ply intent on ridding itself of Rodman. 
Last year, in 49 games, Rod­man averaged 16.8 rebounds and 7.1 points a game. Perdue, a 7 -footer entering his eighth year, averaged 8.0 points and 
6. 7 rebounds last season in more than 20 minutes a game. 
"You take into account all that goes on," Jackson said. "You have to take risks in this business. 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
BASEBALL PLAYOFF BRACKET 
DIVISION SERIES LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP (best-of-5) SERIES (best-of-7)Oct. 3-8. Oct. 1Q-18 
CLEVELANrf'._•--, 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
The NO Entrepreneur Club Is look­Ing for someone to run an Intern­ship program, and someone to help with finances. Anyone interested please leave a message with Tim (114·1998). 
UTILE FLOWER HOME DAY­CARE. LOVING, STIMUlATIVE ENVIRONMENT. MOTHER, EDU­CATOR. SPECIAL DISCOUNTS. LICENSED. 284-0708. 
Reminder to Freshmen In CAMPUS COMMUNITY INTRODUCTIONS PROGRAM Wrap Up & Pizza TONIGHT 
esc 
Multi-Purpose Room 4:30 -6:00 p.m. 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Found: Set of keys on Stepan Field on Wed. Call4-14321o identify. 
FOUND: gold ring with features. In parking lot next to Infirmary between Stanford and St. Michaels Laundry. Last week In August. Call x4205 to describe and claim. 
FOUND: PRESCRIPTION GlASS­ES IN ST. MICHAEL'S lAUNDRY DISTRIBUTION CENTER. ClAIM BETWEEN 8 AM & 4:30 PM MON-FRI. 
Found: Reebok FB shoes 9/28 dur­Ing lunch. You drove off with them on your car. Call X3486 
Lost: Gold bracelet with colored stones. Reward. Call Lucy 4-4853 
LOST: Gold necklace with a round, multi-colored glass pendant. Please call Uyen @ 273-3174. 
WANTED 
AlASKA EMPLOYMENT ­Students Neededl Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call (208)545-4155 ext A55841 
RIDE NEEDED to Indiana University Oct 6. Call ADAM 4-1767 
I need a ride to the Chicago sub­urbs Oct.6-can you help? call Leah x3735 
NEED A RIDE? I am going to Phllly/NJ area for break and need people to share the driving and gas with. Call Eric @ 273-5073 Seeking In home child care for an adorable baby. 1-4 days/wk M-Th. 631-6561. 
HELP WANTED 10-30 hrs./flex. sched. All majors/schol. avail. $10.25 I 282-2357 
HELP WANTED addressing envelopes. Work at your residence in your spare time. $250+/week possible\ (310)804-5587 24 hrs. 
Part-lime writer/editor with 2 kids (ages: 3,8) needs creative, ener­getic, child-care person who's good with kids. Access to car needed. 5­8 hrs/week, late afternoons. $5.50/hr. 273-1702 after 5 
Collector looking for 1995 magnetic football schedule. Will pay over cost. Please call X11 03 
FOR RENT 
HOMES FOR RENT NEAR NO 232-2595 
THAT PRETIY PlACE. Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 rooms with pri­vate baths. Located In Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. 1-800-418­9487 
FOR SALE 
86 Honda CRX Red Exclnl in and out 71 k $2200 Jim 234 0985 
1@#$#"%."&%#@ @#$$% If you like BASS, you'll like this 150waft 15" SUBWOOFER Call4-1668 #@ $%&""(()"&"%#$#$ 
1993 Tercel, 2 door, slick, AC, 
AMIFM tape, 24,000 miles. 
$8,600.00 Call287-0146 
1987 Mercury-Sable 
G/Condl $2500 o/b 
2n-3254 Urnes 

Spring Break Bahamas Party 
Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days 
$27911ncludes 15 Meals & 6 
Partlesl Great Beaches/Nighllifel 
Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/151 
Spring Break Travel 1-800-678­
6386 

TICKETS 
A DEVOTED IRISH FAN NEEDS 
GA'S TO ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY GAMES. 
219-232-0061, 24 HAS. 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED 
GA'S FOR ANY/ALL 
HOME/AWAY NO GAMES. 
BUY•SELL •TRADE 
(219) 232-0058-24 HAS. 
NEED 4 USC GAs Katie 4015 I NEED TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
Need 4 USC GAs & 2 BC GAs. Please call Cheryl x4883 
Wanted: 4 tickets together -any home game Wanted: 2 tickets NO-USC Caii1-800-922-BEAR day 1-502-354-8826 collect in evening 
Need 1-2 tlx to SC game. Mel x1286 

NEED B.C. Ticket -G.A. or S.A. Please call Anne 634-3445. 
••••Need 2 B.C. GA's•••• Call Kristin @2377 

NEED 3 NAVY G.A.'S. HAVE TWO STUD. USC TIX TO TRADE OR UPGRADE. CALL NICOLE 
X4905 

HELP! Need USC tickets, will pay lots,call Mlchelle,634-2497 
Fall Break Plans? Sell me your stu­dent converted to GA tickets. Katie X4088 
••••••••••PLEASE HELP1••••••••••• •NEED 1 NAVY GAl• •cALL COLLEEN AT X2191• 
NEED 4 WASH. TIX CALLX2855 

CALIFORNIA GIRLS NEED 2 USC TICKETS GA'S OR STUDENT CALL X2089 ASK FOR PETE 
Need 2 USC GA's Will Pay For Them Call Rusty x-0993 

$$$$$ NEED TWO USC STDT TIX. CALL JESSE 234-3952 $$$$ 
I need tickets for BC, USC, and Navy. Please call Bryan. 272-4249 
USC std tx 4 sale #3959 
NEED USC GA's x4233 Tara 

NEED USC TICKETS II I you have any stud. tix, or stud­ga's call Todd or Mike at x1201. 
TRADE: I have 2 USC and 2 Navy GA's. Will trade for 1 or 2 BC tick­ets, either student or GA. Call Eric @ 273-5073 
NEEDED! USC or BC STU. TIX Please call Justin@ x 1811 
Need 4 USC GAs Call Chad at X3384 
NEED BCTKT WILL TRADE USC TKT OR PAY$$$ CALL KELU X4044 

I NEED GA'S MEGAN X3890 Need 1 USC Ticket Student or GA. Call Anne x4896. 
CA family needs 3 BC GAs. Please I Call Clara x4826 

WILL TRADE 2 GA BC FOR 2 SC GAISTDNT TX. ALSO NEED 1 OR 2 STDNT TEX TX. DON (714) 990­0890. 
I NEED TICKETS FOR THE WASHINGTON GAME. CALL CHRIS 4-4204 
$$ PLEASE HELP $$ '94 NO ALUM NEEDS BC & USC STUD OR GA TIX CALL 516-326-2659 
usc usc usc usc 
Four USC Tix needed stud. orGA Call Tom x3410 
usc usc usc usc 

Notre Dame alum coming home for the USC game, tickets desparately needed. Call818-792-2882 
I would DIE 4 UW TIXI X4072 
Need 2 BC GA'sl Will trade 2 Navy GA's. Ryan x-1382 
I HAVE 4 NAVY GA'S AND I AM LOOKING FOR USC GA'S OR USC STUDENT TICKETS. 
If you have USC Ux, call Tom atx3893 
NEED TICKETS FOR WASHING­TON GAME, CALL KRISTINA @ (503)220-8958. 
NEED 1 BC ST or GA Will trade 1 USC ST or pay $$ Melissa x1255 
HELPI HELP! HELPI HELP! I NEED USC AND BC TIX as many as possible, students or GAs please call NORM @ 232-2955 Thanks for your Support! 

···············-······******** 
Need Tickets For Army. Call Jay at 4-1787. 

I have the USC tickets you need. call Gretchen@ 284-5166 with your offer. 
sale-tix book(BC,USC,Navy) Sr.Sec.Best offer. 284-5231 

WILL TRADE CHGO BEAR, CHGO BULL, CHGO SYMPHONY, OR LYRIC OPERA TIX FOR GA USC OR BC TIX. 708-330-3155 ..need 5 navy GA's .. Please call Kristy at x2270 
B.C. TICKETS WANTED. GA or student. CALL after 5 p.m. 2n-4793. GO IRISH. 
USC TICKET FOR SALEI CALL ANY TIME X2108 
IN NEED OF 2 NAVY GA'SI PLEASE CALL ANY TIME X2108 

NO ALUM NEEDS 2 OR 4 TICK­ETS TO BC GAME OCT. 28. CALL COLLECT (810)269-9022 OR JEN­NYMIKE@AOL.COM 
$$ Need So. Cal Tickets Call (717)961-3708 
4 USC Tickets for Sale. Call4-4831. 
I need Navy GAs Pleasellll Call megan at 4807 Please I Ill 

BABYSITIER NEEDED FOR 2 ALUMNI CHILDREN DURING THE USC GAME. ALSO NNED USC TICKETS. PLEASE PAGE ME AT 1-800-946-4646, PIN#5295353 
FOR SALE: 2 BC Stud. tlx Call & make an offer. x44519 

Need help unloading WA TIX? I'll lighten your load.Josh@273-2938 
HELPI HELP I HELP! Alumnus des­perately needs 5 USC tix. Please call215-988-1788 day, or 215-836­9150 home. 
PERSONAL 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 

LaFortune Student Center We're open for your convenience Ill Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri.: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat.: Noon -6:00pm Sun.: Noon-Midnight 
(closed home football Saturdays) 
0c0c0c0c0c0c0c0o0c0o0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL VIII THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0c0c0C0o0Q0c0c0C0c000 

STEPAN COURT TIME: Any group requesting weekly court time at Stepan for basketball or vol­leyball must aftend a meeting-
Thursday, Oct. 5 
4pm-Montgomery Theatre 

LaFortune For more information call Student Activities, 631-7308. 
Thank you St.Jude for prayers 
answered. 

M-I know you had a boring week­
end. we•11 just see what Saturday 
has in store for you I 

MM-Do you have to beg for all of 
your men or what? 
BRIAN BOITANO & DEBI THOMAS head a cast of world-class skaters coming to South Bend In SKATE FOR LIFE on OCTOBER 4 at 7:30 PM at the Notre Dame Joyce Center. Tickets are on sale at the Notre Dame Box Office or call TlcketMaster at (219) 272-7979. 
* * • * ••••••••••••••••
.. ---------.. -...... -.... ­
ND/SMC BALLROOM DANCE This Week: FOX TROT JIVE 
6:30 PM tonight at 301 Rockne 
• professional Instruction • only $3/ lesson or $251 sem. • one of the campus's largest 
organizations Everyone Is welcome! Come dance with usl 
....-·-.-......................-....-....-.-....-. 
##################### St. Edward's Hall Players are holding OPEN AUDITIONS For their production of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest Wed.-Thurs. 8-10 p.m. 
@ 127 Nieuwland Call Colin @ x1567 w/ questions 11###111111###11111111111111#11111111 
Happy (late) 21st Coreyl Have fun, drink some ROLLING ROCK, Think of us in London missing youl Love, Your 3 lave naked chicks! 
The Days of Our Lives Correspondents are still looking for more soap opera update people. If you want to see your byline In The Observer, call 634-4220 and ask for Erin and Christina. Please be ready to write 200 words a weeki 
You befter hold up to your end of the deal. Anyway, we're coming after you If you ever kidnap her again for so long. 
Strong is Vader. Mind what you have learned. Save you It can. I will. And I'll return. I promise. Told you, I did. Reckless Is he. Now mailers are worse. That boy Is our last hope. No. There Is another. (There, you happy?) 
Laura­
\ know I haven't celled back yet. I am such a lardy bastard. After this week, I'll be more of a friend. Would you like to go to dinner sometime this weekend? 
-wasserbub 
BOSOX BOSOX BOSOX BOSOX The Rocket's red glare is going to be blinding tonight. 
BOSOXBOSOXBOSOXBOSOX 
1@$$%"&.&"%$#1#@4 ---AAA Mig ---­
This Wednesday: 10/4 
9:30pm Faculty lounge-Hesburgh library 
AAA Mig ••• SMC Women are also wel­comell~lop by at least once I@ 11%$"•&&"(..(&".$%"@ 1$ 


The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 
Mariners earn title in AL West 
By JIM COUR tie, which trailed California by ninth. Associated Press 13 games on Aug. 2. The "You get up against a guy like Mariners missed a chance to that in a one-game season and SEATTLE 
wrap up the division by losing when he's on his game like he With a legacy of losing and 
Saturday and Sunday while was today, you're in trouble," their future in Seattle uncer­
California won twice for a tie. said Jim Edmonds of the An­tain, the Mariners finally gave 
It was a season in which the gels.their fans something to really Mariners lost their biggest star, The fans were chanting scream about. 
Ken Griffey Jr., for 73 games "Randy, Randy, Randy," when A crowd of 52,356 wildly 
with a fractured left wrist. he struck out the side in the cheered for Randy Johnson "We were never a team that third and fifth. When Johnson 
from his first pitch to his last, 
had a 13-game lead like the fanned Tim Salmon for the and Seattle reached the post­Angels," Johnson said. "We fourth time to end the game, season for the first time in its 
were a team that was striving the celebration started. 
19 years, beating the California 
to be the wild-card team." Angels 9-1 Monday to win the 
The victory came as politi­AL West in baseball's first one­
The Mariners will play wild­cians were meeting in Olympia
game playoff since 1980. 
card winner New York in the to decide how to finance a new 
The fans acted as if it were best-of-5 first round. The series stadium for the Mariners ­
the seventh game of the World 
begins Tuesday night at Yankee something team owners saySeries as the Mariners at last 
Stadium with Chris Bosio likely must be decided by Oct. 30, or got the opportunity to get there. 
to start for Seattle against the team will be up for sale. 
About 2,000 of them joined the David Cone. "Hopefully, it will keep base­
on-the-field Mariners' 
Seattle was 9-4 against the ball in Seattle," Johnson said. 
postgame celebration. 
Yankees, including a 3-3 mark "This is giving back to a city"It's better to do this at home 
in New York. which hasn't seen a lot of win­because our fans were such a "When he stepped on the ning years. and it's time for ev­big part of it for us down the 
field today ... there was some­eryone to enjoy this moment." stretch," Mariners manager 
thing about him," Griffey said Lou Piniella said. "I think it 
of the 6-foot-10 Johnson. "It For the Angels and Langston was destiny that we came back 
was like, 'Give me one run and (15-7), who was traded by
here to do it." 
I'll take care of the rest."' Seattle to Montreal for Johnson 
Johnson (18-2), maintaining 
Johnson, who won on three May 25, 1989, the loss marked his menacing stare on every 
days' rest, will not be ready to their final disappointment. 
pitch, was perfect for 5 2-3 in­
pitch until at least Game 3 Fri­The Angels, who led the AL nings and finished with a three­
day night at the Kingdome. The West by 11 games on Aug. 9 
hitter and 12 strikeouts. 
Mariners hoped to save their before one of baseball's biggest ace for Game 1, but needed him collapses, won their last five Leading 1-0, the Mariners 
to win the most important games to force the playoff. broke open the game in the 
game in franchise history. The last time baseball needed seventh when Luis Sojo's bases­
"The Yankees have a huge a one-game playoff was in 
loaded double -aided pitcher 
advantage because they were 1980, when Houston defeated Mark Langston's throwing 
at home resting today, but Los Angeles for the NL West ti­error -turned into a four-run 
we've had some success against tle. play. 
them and that helps," Piniella The last one-game playoff in "I felt a little bit of weight on 
said. the AL was 1978, when Bucky 
my shoulders," Johnson said. Dent's home run
Johnson, the leading candi­lifted the "But I thrive on that and it was 
date for the AL Cy Young Yankees over Boston at Fenwayprobably my biggest game ever. Award, led the majors with 294 Park for the AL East title. I had a lot of emotion built up." 
strikeouts. He walked just one, Piniella made a key play in the The victory finished off a 
and lost his shutout when Tony outfield late in that playoff for roller-coaster season for Seat-Phillips homered to open the the Yankees. 
Deloitte &Touche ConsultingGroup 
Raise Your Scores! Satisfaction Guaranteed Small Classes+ Dynamic Instructors Practice Testing + Free Extra-Help ~~CETON (800) 2-REVIEW~~REVIEW lnfo.chlcago@revlew.com The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or E.T.S.  

"At Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, 
we partner with clients to create change 
that produces results, results that show 
on our clients' top and bottom lines." 
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group is an international management 
consulting firm providing creative solutions to major clients in a variety 
of industries. 

• 
Manufacturing • Corporate Strategy 

• 
Health Care • Reengineering 

• 
Automotive • Information Technology 

• 
Construction • Litigation


-, 
• Government I Non-profit • Outsourcing 
We are currently seeking energetic and talented individuals to join our Business Analyst and Systems Analyst Programs in the Detroit Office. We are looking for candidates with a high level of achievement who possess both strong quantitative and interpersonal skills. We hope you will consider this challenging and rewarding opportunity to perform exciting and important work in the global business arena. 
Please bring a resume and join us for our campus presentation. 
Thesday, October 3 The University Club -Main Lounge 7:30-9:30P.M. 
Tuesday, October 3, I 995 The Observer • SPORTS· pase I 5 
• SAINT MARY's SoccER • MEN'S GOLF 
Belles battle opponents, wind First Big East title 
By CAROLINE BLUM "She stopped ball after ball. Scholz's newest plan for attack, Saint Mary's Sports Editor Chicago tried diligently to a 3-4-3 alignment. intimidate her, but she "After our tie against Lake 



claimed on links 
Chicago is not kidding when it calls itself "The Windy City," as the Saint Mary's soccer team was keen to discover this week­end. The team fought hard in 120 minutes of play. only to come up with a 0-0 tie Sunday 
against  the  University  of  
Chicago.  
In  fact,  the wind  was  so  

strong the Belles even wit­nessed disbelief in their oppo­nent's eyes. 
"One of the players from the University of Chicago told me that even she had never played in such strong winds before," forward sophomore Debbie Diemer said. "It was hard to control the ball; we had to try and keep it on the ground." 
·The wind affected freshman keeper Joann Wagner even more severely. She had to ad­just her play in accordance with the strong winds that were teasing the ball to the goal. However, Wagner refused to let the forces of nature distract her as she rejoiced in her third con­secutive shutout. 
"Jo was phenomenal," said head coach Solomon Scholz. "The wind was blowing on her so hard, but she stood tall. I was very proud of her." 
"Joann played unbelievably well Sunday," said Diemer. 
wouldn't allow it." 
Wagner refused to take the credit, however, insisting that the team's stellar defense aided in the shutout. "I really feel comfortable with the team now. This weekend the defense, I, and the offense really played together," Wagner said. 
Fatigue also hindered the Belles' play on Sunday. They had a big 2-0 win over Saint Ambrose College just the day before, therefore playing 90 minutes, plus another 30 for overtime in harsh winds left them ready for bed. 
"Sunday was a tough game for us as well as Chicago," said Scholz. "We dominated the first half, and should've scored-but we just couldn't connect the open shots. We had a few close balls that hit the poles. In the second half we had to play good defense because thlly dominated us. And we each dominated one of the two fifteen minute overtime periods." 
The defense was once again led by senior defender Rita Juster. "Rha and Sandra Gass make a powerful defense," said Scholz. "Teams don't like to play against them." 
The key to the Belles' win on Saturday and their shutout on Sunday also stems from 
~ In-Line 
, 

·~-Skating Clinic 

.... 
Monday, October 9 5:15-6:30 PM Parking Lot South of the Joyce Center 
E ui ment Provided 
Advance Registration at RecSports Required $5.00Fee All Levels Welcome 
631-6100 




411iedSignal 
& 

The University of Notre Dame 
A Dynamic Combination 
Invitational Interviews November 7 for: 
•BBA 

•BS/MS/PhD in AE/ME 

Resumes Due October 2&3 in Career and Placement Office 
Manufacturer of AerosJ)ace and Automotive Products, Chemicals, Fibers, Plastics and Advanced Materials 
Forest, I decided to take the girls to the chalkboard," said Scholz. "We identified our of­fensive problems, and devel­oped a new plan of attack. The 3-4-3 allows the midfield to push the forward line." 
Similar to her teammates, junior midfield-wing Jolie Poko­rny is a fan of the new code for success. She expressed the team's need for three forwards who can emphasize scoring. Although the formation does require more running and ef­fort from the midfielders, Poko­rny believes that the duties are just "part of the job." 
Not only did it help dissolve the offensive difficulties that have hampered the team, but it also allowed the forwards to finish their shots. 
"We were able to get the ball much easier this weekend," said forward Diemer, one of Saturday's scorers. "I was able to concentrate on playing one on one with the keeper." 
Scholz hopes that in practice this week the team will further define their new plan of attack. Hopefully it will allow the team more scoring opportunities Thursday against their tradi­tional rival Kalamazoo College. 
"We will begin play with the 3-4-3 setup," said Scholz. "Hopefully it will lead us to suc­cess. If it doesn't, we will change strategies." 
"We can still play better than we did this weekend," forward Lisa Nichols said. "Our shots we so close but we just weren't making them." 
The excitement against Kalamazoo begins at 3:30 on Thursday on the soccer fields behind Angela Athletic Facility. 

By ANDY CABINESS 
Sports Writer 
this is just the first year that Notre Dame has competed in the Big East, but some Irish teams have already become dominant conference forces. The women's soccer and vol­leyball teams were favored to win conference championships as soon as the announcement was made in 1993 that Notre Dame would become the con­ference's thirteenth member. 
This weekend, though, the men's golf team beat those two squads to the punch as they be­came the first Irish squad to capture a Big East title when they won the conference cham­pionships held in Potomac, Maryland, at the Tournament Players Club of Avenel. 
Saturday's opening round left the Irish thirteen strokes be­hind Connecticut, which shot a tournament-record 283, but Notre Dame's 293 in the final round Sunday gave them a five­stroke victory over the Huskies. 
Irish head coach George Thomas was excited about the comeback. "To win the tour­nament by five strokes after starting the day thirteen strokes back is remarkable. I have never experienced as great a comeback as we made to win this tournament. This is without a doubt the most excit­ing victory I have ever had." 
Sophomore Brian Weeks, who finished in a tie for fourth, noted that Notre Dame and Connecticut had played out the same scenario once before. "That's a big hole to make up in one round, but they did the same thing at Yale a few weeks ago. We kept that in the back of our minds going into Sun­day." 
Leading the way for the Irish was senior Bill Moore, who won the individual title with two-day total of 173, which was only one over par. Moore's ef­fort earned him a tournament record for this course, which is home to the PGA's Kemper Open. 
"I've never played in the final group on the final day of a tournament, so I was really ex­cited," said Moore. "I haven't won anything since I won a ju­nior tournament when I was 17." Asexcitedashewas about an individual champi­onship, he was quick to point out, "the best part is winning the team title." 
Part of the thrill for Moore was the fact that the tourna­ment was played at a PGA Tour course. "The course was in great shape and really hard. To shoot those numbers there was fantastic." 
Weeks was also excited about Moore's title. "I couldn't think of a better person that could have won it. He was also the difference for the team." 
Junior Brian Donohoe fin­ished tied with Weeks for fourth. Junior Joel Hepler and sophomore Brad Stanis finished tied for 13th and 30th, respec­tively. 
Coach Thomas was not about to underestimate the impor­tance of this win. "This is a fantastic win for the Notre Dame program. The competi­tion in the Big East is much stronger than when we won the MCC championship last year." 
Thomas also noticed the tremendous improvement of the program this fall. "We fin­ished second at the Yale Invita­tional, we posted the low round at the Wolverine Invitational and now we won the Big East championship on a tremendous golf course. This is a good indi­cation of things to come for the Notre Dame golf team." 
The Observer 
is hosting: 

The Observer Writing Workshop 
Wednesday, October 4@ 8:00p.m. in the Foster Room, 3rd Floor LaFortune. 
All new and old Observer News and Accent writers welcome. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
WolDen's 
continued from page20 
Badin twenty. On the final play of the game, Shelly Dillenberger deflected a Byrd pass in the endzone to pre­serve the tie. 
Howard 12 Cavanaugh 6 

On Howard's first offensive play, freshman tailback Sara Murray scampered 52 yards for a touchdown and a 6-0 lead. Before the first half ended, Murray once again broke through the Cavanaugh defense for a 24 yard touch­cfown run. 
The second half began with a Cavanaugh drive, capped off by an Amy Laboe toss to Allison Krilla to close the gap to 12-6. 
With two minutes left in the game, Cavanaugh made one last surge for the endzone. A 17-yard run by sophomore Carrie Gulick and a 15-yard pass by Laboe put the Cavanaugh offense inside the ten yard line. On the last play of the game. a final toss by Laboe fell incomplete by the goal line. 
Women's Power 
Po·ll 
1 Pangborn 3-0-Q 1 2 P.W. 3-0-0 4 3 Walsh 2-0-o 6 4 Off Campus 1-1-0 7 5 Lyons 1-1-1 3 6 Badin 1-0-1 8 7 Lewis 1-1-1 2 8 P.E. 2-1-Q 5 9 Knott 1-1-1 9 10 Howard 1-1-0 10 11 Farley 1-2-0 14 12 B.P. 0-3-0 12 13 Cav~n.augh 0-3-Q 13 14 Siegfried 0-3-0 11 
Player of the Week Denise Generally of P.W. The freshman defensive lineman recorded several tackles and added the game winning safety in the Purple Weasels' 8-0 upset victory over No.2 Lewis. 
"The Big Green" 
2:00, 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
"Steal Big, Steal Little" (PG1~l 
2:15, 5:00, 8:15 
"Hackers" iPG13) 2:00, 4•20, 7:00, 9:20 
"Clockers" 1Rl 
2:30, 5:30, 8:30 
"Desperado" !Rl 1:30,4:15, 7·15, 9:40 

Strong defense keys upsets 
By DAVE GRIFFITH 
Sports Writer 
Whoever said that the best offense is a good defense would definitely be smiling if they were on hand at Cartier Field on Sunday. The first two games of the day offered total package football, with the win­ners putting on not only a defensive showcase but also getting the job done on the offensive side of the ball. 
Pasquerilla West used a stingy defense to edge Lewis, ranked second before the game. 
PW began the game with a an option left pitch to running back Tricia Carroll for a 20 yard gain. Carroll also carried the ball two more times for a total of 10 yards. The drive was capped off by an 11-yard pass to take a 6-0 lead after a failed point after attempt. 
Lewis quickly went to its bag of tricks on its first possession with a reverse on the second play from their own 10-yard line. But PW's Denise Generally tackled Lewis' sweeping back in the end zone for a safety putting the Purple Weasels up 8-0 at half time. 
In the second half, the Chicks threatened on two separate dri­ves behind the arm of Liz Talarico. Throwing 39 yards on three attempts, Talarico and the Chicks twice drove inside the PW 20 yard line and were twice denied, turned away by the Lewis defense, forcing them to turn the ball over on downs and preserving their victory. 
Farley 12 Siegfried 0 
Defense contined to be the theme as Farley's swarming pass rush frustrated Siegfried quarterback Jen Laurie and shut down the Slammer's aerial attack. 
Farley struck first with time running out in the first half on a 40-yard sweep on a misdirec­tion play. The point after attempt was stopped short and sent Farley into half time with a 6-0 lead. 
On Siegfried's first possession after the intermission, Laurie was intercepted by free safety Keli Jo Shannon, giving Farley the ball on the 20 yard line. Farley connected on a crossing pattern spanning 15 yards to set up a five yard scamper by Camille Clinton to put Farley ahead 12-0 with 10 minutes remaining in the game. 
With a comfortable lead to work with, Farley's defensive unit recorded two sacks and a batted ball in their further frus­tration of the Siegfried offense. 
PE 0 Knott 0 

The third game matched the Knott Angels versus the Pasquerilla East Pyros. This game was not so much a defen­sive stalemate but a failure by either offense to string a drive together. 
On Knott's first two drives they completed just one of six passes and the running game gained only minimal yardage resulting in two punts. The Pyros didn't fair much better. Pyro receivers dropped three passes and poor blocking by the offensive line prohibited the establishment of a running game. At half time the contest remained scoreless with nei­ther team catching an offensive spark. 
PE's Kristin Tate began the second half by picking off a pass from Knott quarterback. However, the Pyros' offensive woes continued with a big run called back for clipping. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 


The Pan-African Culture Center of The University of Notre Dame Presents: 
AN ~cAN liZ~ At.,16..12.1CAN Cb.LrnRATltJN 

You Missed The Show? See The Video! 
The Pan-African Cultural Center presents The Premiere Showing of the video documentary and performance of last spring's smash show with ... •Trinity, America's number one school of Irish dance • Seamaisin, Notre Dame's very own Irish band • Djo-Gbe, a transcultural ancient African dance, with internationally recognized Master African drummers and dancers •The African American Unity Ensemble, affiliated with the American Conservatory of Music, Chicago. Video by Wayne Harvey Productions. Presented as part of the Multicultural Fall Festival, in cooperation with the Multicultural Executive Council and The Salon of Friendship. 
7:30PM, Wednesday, October 4, in Debartolo Room 102 
Tickets: $2.00 at the door. A reception will follow. 
• 


Tuesday, October 3, 1995 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT p~e 17 

Dexter's not ·his usual self. 
You sus~ect the salsa. 
So you call Dr. Nusblatt, your family vet back home. 
The call is cheap. 
(Too bad about the consultation fee.) 
• 

Live off campus? Sign up for JUm' True Reach Savings'M and save 25% 
no ntatter who, how, when or where 
you call in the U.S. 
Life can be complicated. AT&T True Reach SavingssM is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on your AT&T phone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem ­when you spend just $25 a month~ No other plan gives you all these different ways to save~· Just call 1800 TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. That's Your True Choice:'M 

AT&T 
Your True Choice 
. 'Refer.; to long distance calls hilled to A'RI:T home or A'IN:T Calling Card accounL~ Discounts off A'IN:T basic rates. Certain exclusions apply Subject to billing avdilability Offer available to residential A'IN:T customers: Minimum spending requirement is per residential line. ''Compared to major long distance carriers. Cl 1995 A'IN:T 
-------~-~--~----------------~ --------~----------­
page 18 Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
The Observer • SPORTS 
Men's IH 
continued from page 20 
rushing, the 'Cocks showed the Stud's defense that they would not be stopped so easily. Hrovat took the ball in for a touchdown on a seven yard rush to tie the score. A sucess­ful kick gave the 'Cocks a 7-6 edge. 
. On their second possession of the fourth quarter, Lupo capped a 63-yard drive with a two yard touchdown scramble. The two-point conversion attempt was called back to due an offensive pass interference penalty, leaving the score 14-6. But that would be all Planner needed, as the Studs' last attempt at a score ended after Doug Pollina dropped a fourth down pass. 
"I think our offense executed very well," said Planner co­captain Fenningham. "We were able to do all we wanted to do on offense. Our defense also pretty much shut them down. They have a really good squad, but we played well as a team today and were able to pull out the win." 
Dillon 8 Grace 7 

·Dillon, ·coming off a winless season last year, are now 2-0-1 and in second place in the blue division. The latest victim was Grace Tower, who fell to Dillon 8-7 last Sunday. 
"We really played well today," said Dillon captain Pete Meyer. "Our defense has really improved, especially since week one." 
Aftr the first half ended knot­ted at zero, quarterback Eric Hillegas got Grace on the board, finding Mike Dwyer wide open for a 4 7 -yard scor­ing reception. The extra point conversion gave Grace a 7-0 lead. 
As the fourth quarter clock ticked away, Grace tried to control the ball with a mix of rushing and passing. But their inept passing attack would prove to be their downfall. Hillegasthi:ew ·his third inter­ception, giving Dillon new life with less than four minutes remaining in the game. 
On the fourth play of the drive, Stro rolled left and then 
• took off. He made it untouched 62 yards for the touchdown. Dillon, not to be satisfied with a tie, converted for two, claiming an 8-7 win. 
Morrissey 13 Off-Campus 0 

It's hard to judge what is a bigger issue in this game: Morrissey running back Mark Tate's 160 rushing yards on nine carries or Off-Campus suf­fering its third straight shut­out. 
Morrissey had no problems getting right to work. Tate car­ried the ball four times during the Manor's first possession for a _total of. ~8 yards, including a 16 yard scamper for a touch­down. 
Late in the second half, an 0­C punt pinned the Manor deep inside their own 20 yard line. 
In the play of the game, Mark Tate put the fmal nail into the 0-C coffin. The Morrissey junior exploded down the side­lines for an 86 yard touchdown run. 
"I thought that we really came out great today." said Tate, who averaged almost 18 yards per carry. "But after that, I think we let down a lit­tle. -..we got kind of cocky." 
• MEN'S INTERHAU.. 
Zahm survives Alumni attack 
By TIM MCCONN 
Spons Writer 
To Alumni, this game was big. HUGE. They were hungry to knock off number one Zahm artd do it in a big way. To Zahm, this was just another game, and Alumni was just another team trying to knock them from their pedestal. Neither of these teams liked the other, and they didn't mind showing it. 
The defenses displayed their hard-hitting, aggressive styles, rendering both offenses unable to score a point. Each team had an interception, forced incompletions, and stuffed the run. That is, until right before the end of the first half. 
Facing a fourth-and-four on their own 30, Zahm decided to go for it with a pass. This move proved costly. The Dawgs forced an incompletion, giving the offense one last chance to score before time ran out. After a Matt Mammolenti run, Alumni kicked a field goal as time expired giving the Dawgs a 3-0 lead heading into half­time. 
The second half was much of the same story, except that it was Alumni's turn to make a mistake. Rather than continue to rush as they had been doing successfully with Brian Perry and Mammolenti, and let the clock run down, the Dawgs de­cided to pass. Dan Glennon came up with the biggest play of the game by picking off the pass on the Alumni 25-yard line. 
With less than three minutes 

left, the Rabid Bats put together 
their only substantial drive of 
the game, ending in a one-yard 
rushing touchdown by tailback 
Travis Krahl. The ensuing 
point after was good, leaving 
Alumni with a 7-3 deficit. 
Alumni had one last chance. 

but on 4th-and-8, the "Red 
Swarm" defense stopped Perry 
less than a yard short of the 
first down marker, preserving 
the victory and Zahm's number 
one ranking. 
Fisher 17, St. Edward's 2 
The goal of every team is to 

make the playoffs, or at least 
win a few games. If Fisher has 
any intention of accomplishing this goal, they took a large step toward it on Sunday. 
After dropping to number 12 in the Power Poll last week, the Green Wave knew they needed to pull out a victory. Playing last-ranked St. Ed's gave Fisher an opportunity to begin their climb from the cellar and back to respectability. 
Fisher's offense came out determined to wear down their opponents, and score some points along the way. On their very first drive of the game, Fisher marched down field and scored a touchdown on a nine­yard quarterback keeper that gave them a quick 7-0 lead. The defense, not wanting to be overshadowed, shut down the St. Ed's offense on their initial drive. 
These two drives set the tone for the remainder of the game, in which Fisher's offense pro­duced 17 points and the defense, much maligned for giving up big plays, allowed no points. St. Ed's was only able to score as a result of a second quarter safety. 
Fisher could not put the game away, however, until the sec­ond half. Everything changed when St. Ed's began to shoot themselves in the foot by com­mitting blatant penalties in cru­cial situations. On Fisher's sec­ond touchdown drive,· the Steds were caught off-sides. On 4th­and-15, they committed pass interference, giving Fisher a first down. Then, with less than five minutes left in the game, the Green Wave dug themselves into a 3rd-and-25 hole only to be saved by a roughing the passer call. an au­tomatic first down. Fisher went on to score and build their lead to 14-2. 
St. Ed's had a chance to put a 
drive together late in the game, 
but their fourth down pass fell 
incomplete. Fisher then added 
a late field goal to end the 
game with 17-2 final. 
Dave Walsh described the 
game bluntly. "This is a big 
victory for us. We needed it." 
Carroll 14, Sorin 6 

Looking to redeem them­
selves after a 34-0 loss to Zahm 
last week. the Carroll Vermin 
came out with a vengeance on 
Sunday against Sorin. 
---..., 

Chinese -:American 1 Restaurant & Cocktail Lounge )\ulhentic Szechuan, Ml:ndarin & Hunan Cuisit.~

Bar & Restaurant open 7 days a week Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dinners starting at .....$5.95 Votcd.Be:~t 
Ori~nttl RestaL!rant-'

Banquet rooms available for up to 200 in Michiana by·' .~
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
Michlana Nuly../
(next to RaOOall's Inn ) 

Tuesday. october 3 at 4:15 Wednesday. october 4 at 6:00 Thursday. october 5 at 4:15 
wrestling Room in JACC Located in Gym Near Recsports Office 
For the first half, they exe­cuted to perfection. Tailback Jeff Kloska rushed for 42 yards and a touchdown on the open­ing drive. After four straight Kloska runs, quarterback Tim Nelson mixed in a play-action pass. With the defense off-bal­ance, Kloska scampered 24 yards around left end for a touchdown, and giving Carroll a 7-0 lead. 
After recovering a Sorin fum­ble, the Vermin continued their running ways, this time getting fullback Joe Schenner into the mix. Schenner rumbled through the Sorin defense on the drive for 20 yards, includ­ing a five-yard touchdown. 
Carroll entered the second half with a convincing 14-0 lead. But Sorin, who was un­able to put together any formi­dable first half drives. had designs on an upset in the sec­ond half. 
Behind quarterback Chris Bryant, Sorin moved at will until Bryant ran one in for Sorin's first score in almost three years. The two-point conversion failed, leaving the score at 14-6 with less than two minutes in the game. 
All Carroll had to do was run out the clock. Instead, they wanted to make it interesting. On their second play, Kiosk a coughed up the ball and Sorin recovered. However. re­demption definitely was the theme of this game. Kloska, playing defensive back, picked off Bryant's pass attempt, and sealed a 14-6 win for Carroll. 
Men's Power 
Poll 
1 Zahm 3-0-0 1 2 Flanner 2-0-0 3 3 Morrissey 2-1-0 5 4 Stanford 1-1-0 2 5 Alumni 2-1-0 4 6 Carroll 2-1-0 7 7 Dillon 2-0-1 8 8 Grace 1-2-0 6 9 Keenan 0-1-1 10 10 Fisher 1-2-Q 12 11 Off Campus 0-3-0 9 12 Sorin 0-2-1 11 13 St. Ed's 0-2-1 13 
Player of the Week 
Mark Tate of Morrissey For the second straight Sunday, the junior tailback stood head and shoulders above the rest, compiling 160 yards on nine carries to go along with apair of touchdowns. 

EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 5°0  if you show college I. D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. 
COME TO: HOURS: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
by Beta Alpha Psi members 
Sundays 6:00-7:00 PM Tuesdays 6:00-7:00 PM 
(tutoring will NOT be available during Fall Break, Thanksgiving Break, Spring Break, and Easter Break) 
Basement Lounge of COBA 
For more information call Eric Lorge at 232-2954 




BILL WATIERSON

CALVIN AND HOBBES 
Tuesday, October 3, 1995 The Observer • TODAY 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A W\-I£.N Do '{OJ NEED 10 Tl-lt>-IS NOT S:J Bf>-\:J. '1\lU AND 1<\i Wm:Ot>.iS 
trip or timely phone call could be PRE'S'cJ~T '<OJR lEAr J\JS\ N't:.tD T\-IR'i± OR f>.RE 800I(£P 
vital to the success of your business or romantic plans. A major purchase 

COLLEC\\ON" FO'JR \.H--~5 f>.. 0"''{ . UNTIL 1'\'t:.H 
DILBERT 
'(OUR. RESUI"\t OOE.~N'T LI5T AN'I' EXPERIENCE. t>-.'::1 A JE.T PILOT, t'\I5iER. DOGC>ERT 
.J 
HOW HARD COULD IT BE? 
\ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Wood shaper 37 Rock's ZZ Top,
1 Lullaby e.g.
5 "Betty -" 39 "Othello" villain 
(1930hit) 40 It's west of
9 Tin Pan Alley Wales
grp. 41 Out of place
14 "It's a Sin to Tell 42Feet 15 Proficient 43 Nonesuch 16 Billow 44 Start for a hero 17 Camera's eye 45 Wiesbaden's 18 ltalia's capital state 19 Look of scorn 46 Thwart 
20William 48 Majesty lead-in Randolph 50 Savings plans, Hearst's home 
for short 22 Like neon 
52 Silent's 23 "Who has an successor answer?" 
57 Disciple of 24 No sweat Socrates 26 Pleased &o Michael 29 "Hey,--!" Jackson's home 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
T\-1\JR'S\)(>_'{ 
~PM.' 

,. G 
0 z
YOU COULD SPENO A. LOT > 
u ...i u c0 
OF 1'\0NEY ON SOME 
@)" 

PRE.TT'< BO'l' PILOT WITH
,. ~
"' 

c EXPERIENCE. 1 OR YOU :0
" ~ 
,_

,_" CAN SAVE. A FEW BUCK.S "' 
0 

u AND 1-\AVE ME. DRIVE. T\4£.
"' 

. CORPOR/\TE. J"E.T. 
E 

.;, \. 
63 Salesman Willy &40newho's adored 65 "S~ug as-~ 
66 Words of wisdom 67 Medicine tablet &a Polyhymnia, e.g. 69 KNO, 70 Kett of the comics 11 Ballantine and others 
DOWN 
1 Party dip 2CitySSEof 
Buffalo 3 Fool 4 Plaster painting 
surface 
5Mount-~, 
Israel &Bassoon relative 
may be part of the deal. Steer clear 
P.,\ 
of emotional outbursts tonight. Soft­pedal disagreements. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Make health and nutrition your top priority. Stock up on foods that boost your energy. Aerobics, cycling or swimming will keep you trim. Learn new skills by returning to school or enrolling in weekend seminars. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your heart could be a million miles away from work today! Projects demanding an artistic touch should go well. Take a highly original
SCOTT ADAMS 
approach. Short business trips enjoy favorable influences. CANCER (June 21-July 22):

I. t>..t'\ UNDER 
Complete old business during the f:>... LOT OF ~UDGET 
morning hours. Your warm person­ality and fun-loving nature continue

PRE.~5URE. .. AND 
to make you popular. A partner has I'~ NOT AlLOWED 
learned a valuable lesson. Show your forgiving side. 

ON THE. JET 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Hold
IT 11A.S A

1'\'l'SELF... constructive talks with your loved PILOT E:JECT ones and business associates. lf ) tempted to lash out at someone, call
SEAT, RIG\11 7 

Questions involving budgets, tran' portation, bills and registration come up today. Luckily, you ar. able to keep everything together Share lunch or a late-night suppe o with someone you love. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Del 21 ): Mentally and physically you an operating with greater efficienc> now. Interviews and audition· should go beautifully. Tie up lom.­ends during evening hours. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Your earning power improVt'· when you study a language. An urge to beautify or create spurs you 1< spruce up your surroundings. Plar on taking a trip or pursuing . favorite hobby this earning week end. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18\ Your enthusiasm for an imaginativ, idea wins you new clients or at employer's approval. Romance con tinues to show up in your stars. Le go of old disappointments. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201 Theatrical and artistic work enjoy· highly favorable influences. You flair for drama helps you attract nc'· clientele. Profits rise thanks to bu~iness partner or financi:r backer's advice. 



~ 
• OF IITEREST 

The ln.ut1.te of Internal Auditors, Michiana Chapter, is spon· 
soring its annu~l Student Night, at 4 p.m. today at the 
Matterhorn Restaurant, Elkhart. Indiana. Robert McCabe will 
speak oO:'~How to prepare Cor an Interview", "Career 
Opportunities in Audit~. and ~Being the Best You Can Be". for 
reservations and more information, call Tim at (219) 236·1258. 
Notre Da..Wre8tling will be holding practice today at 4:15 in 
the wrestlij).g room in the JACC (located in the Auxiliary Gym 
near Reo Sports Office). 

Stilling ttt. Tempest: Strategies For Social Reconciliation in 
Burundi" .Will be given this afternoon at 4:15 by Associate 
Professor ;Patrick Gaffney of the Kroc Institute and the 
Departm$)lt of Anthropology from the University of Notre 
Dame. ~lecture will be presented in Seminar Room C·103 
ofthe Hetlbutgh Center. 

The Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control, in con· 
junction wJ,th the Department ~f biological Sciences. are pre· 
senting .~.·seminar entitled "Biotic Contributions to Soli 
Struoturl:i~i;;A Key to Understanding Ecosystem Restoration." 
The lectur• will be given by Michael Miller, Research Scientist 
Environmental Research Division of the Argonne National 
Laboratories located in ArgOime, Ulinois. It will begin at 4:30 
p.m. in R®nt 283, the Auditorium. in the Galvin Ufe Science Center. Refreshments will be served at 4:15p.m. The International Study Program at Australia (1996 • 97 Academit~ Year) will give an information meeting today with applications available in 126 DeBartolo at 4:30 p.m. All Sophomores in colleges of Arts and letters and Business Administration are welcome. Powerful reaumea: learn to create attention-getting resumes that market your skills and abilities to match the employer's needs. Content .will include what employers look for In a resume, writing career objectives and "bullet" statements, and the impol:'tance of targeting and evaluating resume content. Tonight from 6:30 to 8:00 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune this information will be presented by Judy Goebel of the Career and Placement Services. Write an effective personal statement: Dean Joyce Prott, l'rom the Notre Dame Law School will present "How To Write an Eft'ective Personal Statement" tonight at 7:00p.m. In 101 ND Law School. It is being sponsored by the Prelaw Society. A Feminltts for Life meeting will be held tonight at 7:30 in the esc Coft'eehouse. The International Study Program In Angera, France (1996 • 97 Academi~Yeat) will present a lecture entitled "Should I Stay • or Should I Go?" tonight with Professor Paul McDowell. It will be in room 117 O'Shaughnessy. All are welcome. . Attention Seniors: Sign up for Senior Rap Up Groups in NDH, SOH, LaFortune, Alumni·Senior Club and the esc this week. 
.. 

• 
.. 

~--~---------------­
, 
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, October 3, 1995 
Washington looms as turning point for Irish 

By MIKE NORBUT . tailback Eddie George, who broke Spons Editor through the Irish front seven several times. There's no doubt about it. Notre They also got the brunt of Holtz's Dame's a team in limbo. 
halftime abuse, where he lost his cool 
They're teetering between the cliffs discussing their efforts in the first of the competitive and the plateau of half. the pushovers. And this weekend's The play that set him off was a 51­game with No. 15 Washington will be yard Bobby Hoying-to-Buster Tillman the deciding factor. .----------, completion. It was actual-
w:~o:i~~u~~~~iob~::~~ 19QS lliUSH ~i:es:or!~t~l ~~te;l~:~ 
Irish head coach Lou Holtz Rossum slip, which made said. "Bringing this team up the key play in Ohio
• 
back against Washington State's first scoring drive. is critical, and the confi-It got them on the board dence level is a vital aspect at 10-7. of anything you do." F0018ALL "I did a dumb thing at 
Right now, that level , · · " halftime. I got a little bit seems to be dropping a little below upset, and I really shouldn't have," the add mark on the dipstick. Holtz said. "(Rossum) lacks a little 
''I'm worried about the confidence confidence right now, but he's got a of our football team right now," Holtz lot of athletic ability." continued. "Offensively, I think we Of course, it's not always easy to have pretty good confidence, but I play in front of almost 100,000 don't know how we are defensively." opposing fans. 
Giving up 45 Buckeye points could But things really don't look to be do that to you. So could giving up too different this weekend as far as four big plays of over 50 yards. the crowd goes. The Husky Stadium 
The Irish secondary got the brunt in Seattle, Wash. is known to be an
• 
of the Buckeye attack, having to intimidating place to play. The only defend against the pass as well as difference will be about 20,000 less fans. But they'll be every bit as loud. 
"We can only worry about our­selves," Holtz said. "Right now we have to worry about winning as many games as we can." 
As hard as it may seem to believe, the Irish, ranked 23rd in the nation, could still have a chance at a big-time bowl game. 
If they finish among the top ten teams in the nation, they will get an automatic bid to either the Orange or Sugar Bowls, which offer a paycheck of $8 million per team . 
Another way is if they win at least eight games and finish above a cham­pion of one of the conferences in the bowl coalition. With all the parity in the Big East conference, with every recognized team blemished with a couple of losses, this could be a possi­bility. 
In either case, the Irish essentially have to win the remainder of their games. It starts Saturday in Seattle. 
"This  team  will  bounce  back  
because  we  have leaders,"  nose  
guard Paul Grasmanis said.  

"We have to bounce back," quar­

terback Ron Powlus said. How do you know? "Because we have to." 
Some surprises in weekend interhall action 
.._ 
Lewis falls to PW,· Lyons ties 
By DANIEL PATRICK MULLEN and .SCOTT DOWNES Spons Writers 
The Breen-Phillips team came into Sunday's game on a downswing, hav­ing lost two games in a row. The Banshees luck didn't change as their option attack ran into the buzzsaw defense of top-rated Pangborn. 
However, a late drive by Pangborn finally ended the scoring drought. With less than two minutes left, senior quarterback M.T. Kraft found sopho­more Kelly Brady on a fourth down pass into the endzone. Pangborn con­nected on the extra point to win 7-0. 
Badin 6 Lyons 6 
Another heated interhall rivalry lived up to its billing, as Badin and Lyons dueled to the fmish. 
Lyons opened up the game with a pass-oriented attack orchestrated by talented senior Julie Byrd. The first possession brought them to Badin's 
A . fired-up Phox r----------, goal line. A holding 
defense, led by lineman Michelle Kippes, stymied the Banshee offense for most of the game. On the second drive, Kippes, only a freshman, blocked a crucial fourth down screen pass. However, the momentum would soon shift over to the Banshees. 
On the following Pangborn pos­session, BP sophomore linebacker Tara Dix broke through the line to record one of her four sacks of the afternoon and stop the Phox's drive. .The BP. offense took over and found their way inside the Pangborn ten yard line. With less than two min­utes remaining in the half, the Banshees faced a long fourth down and goal and an opportunity to take the lead. But the Pangborn defense held strong and denied freshman 
Natalie Kelley's bid for a touchdown. 
The second half proved once again 
to be dominated by both defenses. 
penalty negated an
L apparent score, and Lyons turned the ball over on downs. 
But Byrd and company capitalized later by com­pleting a 23-yard touch­down pass. The extra point failed, giving Lyons 
a 6-0 lead at the end of the half. 
Strong defensive play inspired the Badin offense to move the ball more effectively in the second half. Badin center Katie Dillenberger was called upon to run a center sneak up the middle. Her 11-yard run resulted in a touchdown to tie the game at 6-6. 
Still, Byrd came back firing. She drove her squad inside the Badin twenty with under five minutes remaining. On a critical fourth down play, Badin freshman Courtney Tobias nabbed the star quarterback to end the drive. Lyons had one more posses­sion that once again was inside the 
see WOMEN'S 1page 16 
No. 2 Flanner edges Stanford 
BY JAKE COOPER 
Spons Writer 

In the first true match-up of division leaders, the Stanford Studs were unable to keep pace with the 'Cocks of Flanner. Stanford was never able to get its offense rolling, while Planner was able to control the ball for a 14-6 win and control of the blue division. 
Planner (2-0) got off to a rough start. The 'Cocks ran the ball four times for 12 yards, before Stanford freshman Mark Rule sacked quarterback Scott Lupo for an eight yard loss, his fourth sack of the year. 
On the ensuing play, Lupo was inter­cepted by Studs' freshman Mike Rock,. who returned the ball to the Planner 13 yard line. Five plays later, quarterback Mike Brown scored on a two yard boot­leg, giving Stanford a 6-0 lead. 
The 'Cocks did not let the opening turnover rattle them. Behind the run­ning of JP Fenningham, Steve Hrovat and Dave Lucada, Planner set the tone for the restor the game. On a 65 yard drive consisting of 11 plays, all of them 
see MEN'S IH I page 18 


Morrissey tailback Mark Tate rushed nine times for 160 yards in Morrissey's 13-0 win over Off-Campus Sunday. Tate was named Player of the Week for the second time in a row. 
Football Women's Soccer 
vs. Washington 

vs. Connecticut October 6, 7:30p.m. 
October 7, 2:30 p.m. 
Cross Country 
Volleyball 

Notre Dame Invitational 
vs. West Virginia October 6, 7:00p.m. 
October 6, T.B.A. 
vs. Duke October 7, 7:00p.m. 
SMC Sports 
Men's Soccer 

Volleyball at DePauw, October 3 
vs. Detroit October 5, 7:30p.m. 

• 
Men's Golf earns Big East tide see page 15 

• 
Saint Mary's Soccer ties see page 15 

• 
Men's Tennis results see page 14 














