
Tuesday, November 21, 1995 • Vol. XXVII No.·6I TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Kirk rejects proposed hall co-residentiality 
By AMY SCHMIDT 
As>iMarll N~ws Editor 
Citing timeliness as a main eoncern, Assistant Viee Presi­dtml of Student Affairs Bill Kirk addressed the much-debated 
topic of co­residentiality at the Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting yes­terday. 
According to Kirk, the 


Office of Kirk Student Affairs docs not believe that it is the right time for co-residen­tiality on campus. He said that many changes have taken 
place on campus in the past few years, and that a "radical ehangll" such as co-residen­tiality would complicate things. 
"One more element of change would be foolish at this time," Kirk said. 
Kirk went on to discuss three issues that have taken prece­dencll on campus recently. First, because the male-female distribution has changed dras­tically, new gendllr issues have emerged. Second, the student body has become more culturally and ethnically di­VIlrse. And third, there has been an increase in complex student situations, such as unique family situations that require University intervention. 
Kirk's discussion on co-resi­dentiality at Notre Dame comes as a response to an excerpt from the 1988 Board of Trustees Heport on Co-residen­tiality and the 1987-88 Notre Dame Heport from the Task Force on Hesidentiality. The in­formation was presented to the CLC by a sub-committee led by Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters Ava Preacher. 
According to the reports, in the event of the construction of one or more additional resi­dence halls, consideration should be given to making one or more of the new facilities co­residential in nature. 
Because the construction of Keough and O'Neill Halls will be complete in the fall of 1997, the sub-committee on co­residentiality for the CLC felt that it was a timely issue. 
Preacher explained that the option for co-residentiality is just that-an option. She sug­gested housing options ranging from junior-senior only co-resi­dential hai"ls to residence halls stressing physical and emo­tional well-being. 
Currently, the debate is far from over. Kirk did stress, however, that the residential nature of the University is part of what sets Notre Dame apart from other schools in the coun­try. "A tremendous amount of success and satisfaction (has 
see CLC I page 4 


Dow makes history topping 5,000 
By STEVE SAKSON 
Associated Press

5,000 Dow hits 
NEWYOHK


5,000 
The Dow Jones industrial average The Dow Jones topped 5,000 today for the first time in his­4,000 industrial average tory, but had trouble staying there and 
is breaking 
closed lower. 

symbolic barriers Apri117, 1991:3,004.46 
At 10:03 a.m. the widely watched aver­

with increasing frequency. 3,000 The Dow's 
Jan. 8, 1987:2,002.25
thousand-point milestones: 
Nov. 14, 1972: 1,003.16 
2,000 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Giving a lot 

Students assemble bags of food at Stepan Center to give to the homeless, so that they will not be with­out food on Thanksgiving. 
• STUDENT SENATE 

Group finds murals inappropriate 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assistant News Editor 
The Christopher Columbus murals in the Main Building are "unacceptable," and something must be done about them, according to a Student Senate resolution passed at an infor­mal meeting of the Senate on November 15. 
According to the resolution, the Senate, which along with 
age of 30 big-name companies like AT&T and GE was up 10.48 points, pushing it to 5,000.43. It retreated for much of the morning, turned higher to pass 5,003, then dipped again in mid-afternoon, closing at 4,983.09, down 6.86. 
The Dow average had flirted with 5,000 for several days. On Friday it closed at 4,989. 95 after a 119.58-point run-up dur­ing the week. 
The Dow average has risen more than 30 percent this year in one of the most spectacular run-ups on Wall Street ever. It had broken the 4,000 barrier only last February. 
For Wall Street record-keepers, it is a day's closing price that is the most signifi­

1980 1990 
cant. 

year Thus the passing of the 5,000 mark won't mean as much if today's closing is lower. 
Analysts credited today's higher stocks to the weekend deal between Hepublicans and President Clinton to reopen the gov­ernmfmt and start negotiations aimed at balaneing the federal budget in seven years. 
Despite the optimism, analysts noted that significant differences remain over big issues such as tax cuts, federal health care programs, education and the environment. This leant a cautionary air to the market, as traders were loath to make big buying commitments amid the uncertainty in 

AP/KarfGude 
Washington. 

the University, is "committed to the New World, which some valuing diversity and fostering members of the Notre Dame community," passed the resolu­community say reveal Native tion because it felt that the mu­Americans and African Ameri­rals in the Main Building are "a cans as inferior. source of pain to many mem­Because of this, the Senate bers of the Notre Dame com­also resolved that it "strongly munity." urges the officers of the Uni­
"The current situation" versity to work with concerned named in the resolution refers members of the campus com­to the murals in the Main munity to lind situations com­Building which depict Christo­mensurate with the interests of pher Columbus' "discovery" of 
see SENATE I page 4 


Student unhurt in attack by gunman 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
A Notre Dame senior was robbed at gunpoint last night as she walked back to her off cam­pus apartment from a bus stop. 
Aside from being shaken up, the vic­
tim was 


according to Notre Dame Security. 
The incident occurred at about S:30 last night as the student entered the Turtle Creek apartment complex, according to Chuck Hurley, assistant di­rector of Notre Dame Security. After exiting the bus on the South Bend Ave. side of Turtle Creek, the vic­tim walked towards her residence, where she was approached by a man who asked •wr for money and placed a gun to her head while covering her mouth with his free hand. 
The gunman forced the victim into a grassy area off the main road approximately 100 .vards inside Turtle Creek near the offices of the complex whnre he demanded money from her, Hurley said. He made off with $4 from the student's change purse and fled in an unknown direction. 
sec ATTACK I page 4 

This is the last issue of The Observer before Thanksgiving break. Publication will resume on Tuesday, November 28. The Observer wishes everyone a safe and happy Thanksgiving. 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



It's 01ore a mosaic than a 01elting pot 
Recently, there has been a great deal written Bill Connolly in the Observer on the News Copy Editor subject of race relations and discrimination on campus. Extremists on both sides of the issue have nearly reached the point of hate speech. In one case, a columnist called the white race "homoge­neous mutants." Most of time, such extrem­ists feel they have been hurt so badly that they feel the need to write a column to ex­press their anger. Fine. However, their anger should not be directed at the Notre Dame community. 
First, Notre Dame is not a melting pot, nor should it be. A melting pot is a metaphor for a mixture of things which give up their iden­tity to form a new collective identity. In doing so, the ingredients lose their own flavor, their own culture. However, what Notre Dame is, and what this nation should be, is a mosaic. In a mosaic, all the colors unite to achieve a common goal-while maintaining the perspec­tives which make them distinct colors. 
Notre Dame is an example of this mosaic. Blacks are not made to conform to white standards at Notre Dame; they, as with all students, are forced to conform to Catholic standards. As the word catholic, meaning universal, implies. all ethnic groups are respected, and encouraged to flourish. All students have cultural groups sponsored by the University which allow them to partic­ipate in the growth of their culture. Therefore, assimilation to white standards does not occur at Notre Dame since we are all on equal footing. 
Unfortunately, this is not the case on other campuses across America. Just this past week at Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts, black students boycotted ath­letic and other extracurricular activities after the college's student government association voted to change the Black Student Union's charter. This eliminated a clause that limited the Union's executive board to blacks. Like Notre Dame, only close to 5% of the college's students are black. Unlike Notre Dame, the student government at Holy Cross chose to follow the failed path of the melting pot by asking blacks to assimilate their cultural group. 
We should feel blessed that such situations do not occur at Notre Dame. The cultural groups we have on campus and the "mosaic" image we emulate ensure that these situa­tions are not likely to occur. However, when hate speech from extremists like Christine Likely or Fred Kelly constantly appear before us, the illusion of a problem at Notre Dame appears. 
Therefore, I would like to encourage these race-haters to do the following: shut up. If you really feel there is a problem at Notre Dame, don't bate people with words which talk at people. Talk to students about these issues personally. or talk to the administra­tion about the issues you are so concerned with. But don't play on our worst emotions such as anger and ignorance. 
Notre Dame is an academic, athletic, and 
religious model for not only other colleges, 
but the rest of America as well. I urge Notre 
Dame to continue to thrive as an ethnic 
model for America. And to the doomsayers, I 
urge you to stop the hate speech and let it 
happen. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tmuw's SrAFF 
News Jamie Heisler Deborah Schmidt 
Sports Dave Treacy 
Graphics 
Brian Blank 
Accent Ashleigh Thompson Melinda Cragan 
Production Tara Grieshop Jackie Moser 
Lab Tech Michael Hungeling 

• WomJl AT A Gu~ce 
Fired bank employee accused of killing four people 

COLUMBUS, Ohio 

and killed bank employee Brian Stevens, 36; his wife, Tracy Stevens, from his bank job fatally shot four peo­
PA. 

25; and their 4-month-old daughter, 
ple and wounded two others after breaking into their homes, police said. Two of the targets were bank employ­
eJ=--Ashland 
ees. Jerry Hessler, who had been accused of sexual harassment at the bank, was 
.,_·._• • • • Worthington
0Columbus

being held this morning in the county jail after Sunday night's shootings at three homes in the Columbus area and 
g' r
OHIO 

one in Ashland, about 70 miles north­
east of Columbus. 
WEST 
bank employee Mark P. Campolito, 27, 
He was charged with one count of VIRGINIA 
in the left arm, Longebone said. 
felonious assault in connection with 
Campolito was hospitalized in fair con­
one of the Columbus-area shootings. Other charges were expected, police said. 
Hessler, 38, was upset about being fired from Bank One, police Sgt. Jim Longebone said. One of the dead and one of the wounded were bank employees, but their exact relationship with Hessler was not immediately known. 
The harassment allegations were made more than a year ago, Detective Mike Millay said. But it was not dear when he was fired. 
Bank One referred questions to spokesman John Rus­sell, who did not immediately return messages seeking comment today. 
Longebone said Hessler broke into a Columbus home 
Shootout's relatives tell 'other side' 
TOMBSTONE, Ariz. 
Terry "Ike" Clanton denies he's trying to revise history concerning his distant relatives. the pivotal characters in Wyatt Earp's celebrated 1881 gunfight at the OK Corral. But he thinks his family has been maligned by myths about Ike and Billy Clanton and their friends Frank and Tom McLaury, and their deadly run-in with Earp, his brothers Virgil and Morgan and alcoholic, tubercular Doc Holliday. Joseph Isaac "Ike" Clanton escaped injury but younger brother Billy and the McLaurys died in the shootout, an event that has grown to epic proportions and has kept this tiny town alive as an Old West tourist mecca. "Magic words -Tombstone, Earp, OK Corral," says historian Ben Traywick. "Without them, this town would have dried up and blown away in the desert 50 years ago." Clanton relatives held their second annual "Notorious Clanton Gang OK Corral Reunion" this past weekend, in part to provide what they consider perspec­tive. "I want people to know the other side of the story," said Terry Clanton, 37. "Hollywood spends millions and millions of dollars and they keep getting the story wrong. 

Plane crashes into apartment building 
FULLERTON. Calif. 
A small private plane crashed into an apartment build­ing shortly after takeoff today. setting it on fire. authori­ties said. It wasn't immediately known if anyone was in­jured or killed in the 6:45 a.m. crash. Sgt. Craig Brower told CNN three people were not accounted for. "The apartment complex is fully involved," said Tom Lynn, a Fire Department spokesman Firefighters were removed from the roof of the two-story building because of the danger of collapse, authorities said. The single-engine plane appeared to have crashed in the middle of the eight-unit structure. "I was in the room right where the plane crashed," said a shaken resident who wouldn't give his name. "It slammed right into my room and my neighbor's room. I didn't know what the hell was going on." "I was taking a shower and I heard the whole building shake," said another resident who didn't give his name. "The propeller was stuck on my balcony." 

Judge bows to crack cocaine laws 
OMAHA, Neb. 
A judge who has bucked federal sentencing guidelines in crack cocaine cases, arguing they discriminate against blacks, reluctantly obeyed a higher court's instructions Monday. However, U.S. District Judge Lyle Strom told two brothers as he sentenced them that he would con­tinue working to change the guidelines to allow more le­nient terms. Strom sentenced brothers Delano Maxwell, 36, and Hassan Majied, 29, to at least 30 years in prison each for crack cocaine distribution. He initially had sen­tenced them to 20 years each, but after an appeal the 8th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals sent the case back to him. ruling he could not give sentences more lenient than the guidelines. Strom has criticized the federal sentencing guidelines because they call for longer sentences for con­victions involving the less expensive crack form of cocaine than those required for offenses involving regu­lar or powder cocaine. Strom contends the guidelines are discriminatory because more crack defendants are black. Statistics show nine of 10 crack defendants in Nebraska are black. 

Grand Canyon National Park reopens 
GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK. Ariz. 
Grand Canyon National Park reopened for business to­
day, four days after the federal budget shutdown forced 
the 76-year-old tourist attraction to close for the first 
time. "The gates are open and people are going through. 
getting charged," said Caroline Beals, a fee collector at 
the main entrance station on the canyon's South Rim. A 
trickle of cars began entering the park only hours after 
President Clinton and congressional Republicans reached 
agreement Sunday to reopen federal government. Crews 
went to work Sunday night preparing park services and 
concessions. The closing had cost about $1 million a day 
in lost tourism revenue for the area. About 13,000 
tourists generally flock to the park each day. All inner­
canyon trails and most facilities along the canyon's South 
Rim were to operate as usual today. said Maureen 
Oltrogge. The budget standoff forced the park to close 
Thursday for the first time since it opened in 1919. 

Tuesday, Nov. 21 AccuWeatherm forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Amanda. 
A visitor, Ruth Canter, 33, was wounded. She was in stable condition at a hospital early today, Longebone said. A 7 -year-old boy hid and escaped injury, Longebone said. The boy's name and relation to others in the house were not available. 
Hessler then went to a second home about a half-mile away, where he shot 
AP dition early today. 
At a third home in the northern sub­urb of Worthington, Hessler killed Thane Griffin, 64, police said. 
Griffin was a retiree of the United Way of Ohio and did not work for Bank One, police said. Investigators were uncertain why he may have been targeted. 
After the killings, Hessler fled to the Ashland home of his former girlfriend Judy Stanton, said Ashland police Lt. Steve Rush. 
Stanton, 38, had been warned that Hessler might be coming, Rush said. 
She was preparing to leave with her husband and four children, ages 5 to 13, when Hessler appeared at the back door and asked to be let in. 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 21. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1995 Accuweather, Inc. 

Pressure 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIS Associated Press 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
VIa Associated Pmss GraphicsNet C 1995 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Atlanta  57  31  Dallas  74  40  New Orleans 68  48  
Baltimore  45  32  Denver  53  34  New York  43  35  
Boston  40  35  Los Angeles 79  54  Philadelphia 40  30  
Chicago  40  19  Miami  75  62  Phoenix  82  55  
Columbus  37  24  Minneapolis  36  15  St. Louis  54  29  

.------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------­


SMC Round Table lauds the values of friendship 
By PEGGY LENCZEWSKI 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
The inaugural meeting of Huth's Hound Table: Conversa­tions on Friendship met last night at Saint Mary's to discuss ways in which to foster conver­sations on friendship. 
The goal of the new program, which was designed by Profes­sor Keith Egan, is to focus on friendship in order to promote ·the exploration of the value of 
friendship. 
Egan hopes that by focusing 

on friendship as a sacramental 
activity, students, faculty, staff 
and administration will be able 
to work more effectively togeth­
er. 
The group would like to 
stress the importance that 
friendship is necessary for 
learning. 
The group's name comes 
from the first book of Ruth, in 
which Huth refuses to leave her 
mother-in-law, Naomi, and 
proves herself to be a true and 
loyal friend. 
Egan discussed the impor­
tance of leisure time in order to 
grow, both academically and in 
relationships with other people. 
According to Egan, "Students 
become so busy that our sched­
ules make friendship impossi­
ble." 
Egan also stressed that "Col­
lege students have a special gift for friendship. Your college years are full of graces and en­ergies for friendship." 
Egan emphasized that being aware of the importance of friendship is especially impor­tant at a women's college: "Historically, the Greeks and Romans talked about the im­portance of friendships be­tween men. Stories about friendships between women were hardly ever told." 
Egan hopes that by encourag­ing an environment in which "friendships can be born, can grow, mature and flourish, we can eliminate an environment of competition, which promotes violence." 
According to Egan, "friend­ship is a basis for morality, and grace abounds when friends lead each other to God. We would like to promote an envi­ronment in which false friend­ship is frowned upon." 
Egan hopes that a core read­ing group will form in order to produce ideas to inspire dialog about friendship. 
The 1996 Lenten Lecture Se­ries. which will begin on February 28 and will end April 3, will focus on the importance of friendship. 
The program is being run in conjunction with the Center for Spirituality with support from the Center for Academic Innovation. 
Gordon questions JFK theory 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
News Wfoirer 
Some questions are betterh left unanswered, unless we·' take the Initiative to uncover them, according to Professor Jack Gordon. 
Equipped with llve footage and depicti11g slides of the fateful day in Dallas, Gordon conducted an update presenta· tion last night for students and South Bend residents in Carroll Auditorium. · diagram displayed the presi­dent's motor car as traveling straight on Houston Street, while a paragraph description to the right of the diagram described the actual route as turning left on Elm Street. 

"Many theorists believe that a conspiracy took place in the route change," Gordon said. "But if you've ever been to Dallas, you can see that the route the President traveled followed the normal flow of traffic." 
M~t has been 32 years sine~· ·:v. Gordon's footage next ex· the President's assassination plained the actual assassina­on November 22, 1963. You tion scene. [students] are the third gener-"In looking at the films In ation since his death, and the slow frames, it is clear that 
,,truth is still n?t appare Kennedy was shot three '')•said Gordon. <)Viii+ . '..·.. . times," Gordon said. The films According to hfin. "Millions > showed what Gordon believes of pages from tiles are now to be the first shot fired to available for research, but strike Kennedy's throat, simul· there are still a million to two taneously occurring with his tnlmon. that hav~ yetto pausedwave and wife Jackie's public knowledgf!;" · ·,.... ... ooncer,ned look. Connelly The first question th remained fixated. Next Gordon raised was the con-Kennedy again showed a reac· trasting routes of Kennedy's tion to the second bullet to his visit that appeared in ·.· back, that was followed by a ..·. o.~Has mor~lq~ paper..· oul~~llock from Connelly 
when he was shot. The final blast to Kennedy's head was seen in motion a few frames after. 
Gordon's study also discov­Ared shortcomings in the au­topsy. 
"The autopsy was performed not by the doctors in Dallas, but by a group of governmen· tal doctors. It was their first autopsy," he said. "What was most controversial was that each of the doctors in Dallas unanimously described a miss­ing section of the President's head, while the autopsy claimed that section was in tact." 
Gordon also discussed the controversial claim that Oswald shot Kennedy from 'the sixth Door of the Texas School Book Depository. 
"If the pictures and slides are examined," Gordon said, "a thin man in the crowd is apparent on Elm Street. Also raising confusion is the direc­tion the crowd looks after the bullets are fired. They do not 
see JFKI page 4 
~~~~~----~~----------------~----------~ 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 

Interims will preside until election 
By HEATHER CROSS 
News Writer 
Despite the resignation of it's entire executive board, the Res­idence Hall Association (RHA) proved that it is a viable, com­petent, and vibrant organiza­tion representing the resident students of Saint Mary's Col­lege. 
Presiding over last night's meeting were acting president Nikki Milos, acting secretary 
Shaldee Vitamins &Herb 
Roseland 


272-0606 
Catholic New Testament 
Douay Rlrelms ·Mac or Wl11dows 
$19.95 + S&Il, dowrrload.from 
http://www.webpres.com/ douay I 

Karen Murphy, and acting trea­surer Patti Corbitt. This inter­im board was elected at last Wednesday's emergency meet­ing, and will serve in their respective capacities until the December 4 elections. 
The meeting centered around the concerns following the shock of the resignation of RHA board. There was some anxi­ety on how the interim board was elected, due to the fact that the entire council was not pre­sent at the emergency meeting. 
Acting secretary Karen Mur­phy explained that those on the interim board stepped up to fill the positions because they felt that someone needed to "up­bold RHA until formal elections were held." The council came to the conclusion that what has happened since the resignation of the old board has only strengthened the unity of the organization. 
"It would be a lie to say that this hasn't been painful," said RHA advisor Colleen McKenna. McKenna, who also is the Le­Mans Hall director, stated that she was very impressed with the way the council was con­ducting itself, and trying to see the positive side of the situa­tion . 
Discussion centered on the upcoming election, with student body president Sarah Sullivan present to explain the process. Sullivan listed the requirements for holding an RHA office, and who would be eligible. 
The council brought up issues to be addressed by the new board. "We as RHA need to see our Residence Life Staff in a different light," said chair­woman Heather Brown. Mem­bers discussed how they could have better relations with the association's advisors, and mentioned that the experiences 
see RHAI page 4 

ports all of its members, and we hope that this is the mes­
Senate 

sage sent to the officers of the University," Patrick said,
continued from page 1 

adding that "that's what the all concerned parties." Student Senate is trying to get "The current renovation of 
across in this resolution." 
the Main Building provides an And this is a step in the right opportunity for addressing this direction, according to Presi­problem," reads the resolution, dent of Native American Stu­which, according to Student dents' Association of Notre 
Dame Candice Pascua. 
Body President Jonathan Patrick, is an important move Pascua said that she was 
made by the Senate. happy to see that the Senate supports students on campus
"We didn't come to a consen­sus on what should be done. 
who feel that the murals are "hurtful and unwelcoming." 
We came to a consensus that 
this is unacceptable," Patrick ''I'm not exactly sure yet what said. "The administration build­
actions should be taken," Pas­ing is the heart of our campus, cua added. "But some action 
and if members of our commu­should definitely be taken to fix this problem." 
nity are offended, if people are hurting. then the University Stephanie Bradley, a member 
of NASAND, agreed.
needs to make moves to change this situation." 
"The whole situation sur-· rounding the murals upset me"The whole community sup-black lining inside the hood, 
blue jeans and white sneakers. 
The incident falls into the continued from page 1 joint jurisdiction of Notre Dame Security and the South Bend Notre Dame Security has as­Police both of whom are inves­sembled a description of the at­tigating the robbery. Hurley tacker, based -on an interview said police did not immediately with the victim. The gunman is suspect that the attack was 
a black male, between the ages more than an isolated incident. 
of 20 and 25, 5 feet 5 inches Patrols of the Turtle Creek tall and approximately 150 area by Notre Dame Security pounds. He was wearing a will be stepped up, Hurley said. grey, hooded sweatshirt with a 

Attack 

World Wide Web by the end of 
January.
CLC 

• Cl students can now park continued from page 1 in the D2 parking lot if they 
have classes in Haggar or been expressed) regarding the surrounding buildings. quality of our residence life," Also, plans are underway for Kirk said. a shuttle that would transport 
In other CLC news: students and faculty to and 
• The Campus Calendar from perimeter areas on cam­should be available on the pus. 




HOT. 
Burn, baby, burn-disco inferno. 

MAC. 
Not the burger, pal-the killer computer. 

greatly and also that no one had confronted the problem before," Bradley said. "I ap­preciate the support from the Student Senate. I hope this will open up a lot of eyes around campus to other cultures and to the feelings of others regarding these issues." 
Fourteen members of the Senate voted in favor of the res­olution while one member voted in opposition and another abstained from the vote. 
The Senate is sending the res­olution to the officers of the University. including Vice Pres­ident of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara, Patrick said. 
The officers of the University are scheduled to meet on November 28 to discuss issues on an agenda which will in­clude the concern of students over the murals in the Main Building. 
JFK 
continued from page 3 
look behind them [where Lee Harvey Oswald the assassin was alleged to bel but in front of them." 
Gordon also investigated the presence of a mystery man holding an umbrella on a sunny, 60 degree afternoon. The man was located at the ex­act point where the shooting occurred, and was reported as pumping and rotating the um­brella in the air at the time of the shooting. 
Research into the death of President Kennedy by Gordon and others continues to occur, which Gordon hopes will even­tually uncover the truth to the assassination. 

RHA 
continued from page 3 
of the former board would be helpful when deciding on the organization's role on campus. 
The general feeling among the members is that they do not want to see another resigna­tion, and that all problems yet to be encountered have a way of being solved. 
"If you go through channels and communicate thoroughly, you should not have problems like the last executive board," said Holy Cross Hall president Alaina Higginbotham. She added, "We represent the resi­dents, not ourselves." 
Though a shock to Saint Mary's residents, the resigna­tion of the RHA executive board has seemed only to set the stage of a more active and uni­fied association. 
With the appointment of the interim board, RHA was able to carry out it's normal duties, providing a forum for hall councils to discuss their plans. 

In RHA news: 
•Annunciata 
is planning the Hall's dedication, and putting final touches on making the 4th floor of Holy Cross Hall home to over 40 seniors. 

•LeMans 
Hall has set up a Giving Tree, which allows stu­dents to donate a suggested item (food, toys, etc.) to the Center for the Homeless. Stickers with needed items are available in the lobby. 

•McCandless 
hall held a fo­rum on relationships with their Campus Ministry Liason. They have invited a nutritionist to the hall to discuss issues surrounding nutrition and the holiday season. The hall is also planning a shopping trip to Michigan City. 

•Regina 
Hall had a successful SYR on Friday. The hall con­tinues it's service mission to supply gifts to the underprivi­leged through residents' dona­tions. 


HaPPY 21st Bacher! 
Maybe Your CuPs Will be filled Tonight! 
Love. Petra. LYnda. Jennae. KarYn. Jen. Meg. Carrie. Lisa & Lisa 



StyleWrlter" 1200 
Ink cartridge and cable included. 
Cheap. Not as cheap as a taco, but hey. 
Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh" easy. So easy, Deferred Payment Plan, you cari take home aMacNwithout having to make asingle in fact, that prices on Macintosh personal computers are now even lower than payment for up to 90 days.tWhich meansyou can also take home the Appl .J. their already low student prices. Andwith the Apple" Computer Loan and 90-Day power to make any student's life easier. The power to be your best~ 1e W. 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F 9am-5pm 
'Hey, you wouldn't giveyour mtmey away to just anyone, wouldyou? Neither can we. Offers expirejanuary 15, 1996. No payment ofprincipal or interest will be requiredfor 90 days. Interest accruing during this 90-day period u;i// be added to the principal and will bear Interest which will be Included in the repaymenl schedule. 7'be tniJIIIhlypayment quoled above Is an estimate based on a total loan anwunl of$1,913.83, which indudeo asample purchase price of$1,799for the Performa 6214CD system shown above. The total loan anwunl also indudeo a 6.0% loan orlgina­twn fee. lnlereslls variable based on the Commercial Poper Rate pius aspread of635%. For example, the nwnlh ofOctober 1995 had an interest rate ofI2.17% with an annual percentage rate (APR) ofI395%. Monthly paymentfor /be total loan anwunl described above would be $32.86. Monthly jHiymeftl ami APR sbount assumes IW ufermn~t ofJtrliiCipalaiUl doe! IWt Include state or IOCIII sales tu. Monthly paymmts IIIII}' vary depeiUllng on actrud computer system prius, totall011n amormts, state ami local uks lues, ami achange In the IIWtllbly 1111rUJbk lnlmst Nile. Prequalifica/ion expedites the loan process, but dces not guarantee final loan approval. Subsequent acceptable ~'erlfica/ion documents must be received beforeyour loan Is approved. W1Jew, fXJP quiz on Monday. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple /ego, Macintosh and 'The power to beyour best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Mac is a trademark ofApple Computer, Inc. Card.Shop Plus Is a registered trademark ofMindscape. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to Individu­als with di.sabi/1/y. 1b learn more (U.S. only), ca/1800-600-7808 or rrY 800-755-0601. 
---------~~~------------------------~~---· ----­
Balkan negotiations stand at crucial point 

Washington preps for talks 
By ALAN FRAM 421-4 and shipped it to Assul j.ucJ Pre» President Clinton for his signa­
Back in business 
ture. The legislation commits WASHINGTON both sides to seeking a bal­

• Agreement 
President Clinton and
With a budget truce revving anced budget in seven years 
Congress agreed in
the government back to life, using congressional economic 
principle to balance
thfl Whitfl llous!l and congres­calculations. which the budget by 2002. sional Hepublicans pledged Hepublicans had demanded for Negotiations on taxes. Monday to use December talks months, and to protect social . Medicare, education, to champion divergent spend­programs, as the White House etc., are still to come. ing priorities that have so far insisted. It was approved been irreconcilable. The GOP Sunday by the Senate. 
Back to' work signaled possible give on its Before recessing for Thanks~ Up to aoo,ooo prized tax euL giving, the House also gave fi­. fur1oughed workers 
l>!lmocrats and Hepublicans nal congressional blessing to t--····· returned to work. alik1~ sBemed relieved that the the GOP plan for balancing the ~ longest-ever partial federal budget by 2002 on a mostly 
shutdown was ending, a six­party-line 235-192 vote. It 
Next step 
day ordeal that had both par­would overhaul Medicare. slice 
Details of the
ties fearing retribution by dis­scores of programs and trim 
agreement must be gustnd voters. But there was taxes for millions. worked out and written doggedness, too, and White Clinton's long-promised veto into law by Dec.15, or 
another government
House spokesman Mike of that measure will serve as 
shutdown could follow.
McCurry warned, "We'll be the starter's flag for bargaining right back where we were" that Republican leaders said unless the two sides strike a they hoped would begin next Avoiding default budget deal by mid-December. Monday. The government can't 
borrow, but Treasury
A day after bipartisan lead­The president had long said 
may use trust funds 
ers shook hands on a pact that the GOP's seven-year, 
earmarked for civil
reopening government through budget-balancing timetable service retirement. Dec. 15. the House overwhelm­would force overly harsh ingly approved the measure spending cuts. APIWm. J. Castello 
Support Your Fellow ND/SMC students and the Church in making Washington aware of the issues at hand. 
THE FOLLOWING ARE SOME PARTS OF THE STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CATHOLIC BISHOPS WHICH WAS SENT TO PRESIDENT CLINTON AND CONGRESSIONAL LEADERSHIP (11/15/95). 
A CATHOLIC APPEAL: LEADERSHIP FOR THE COMMON GOOD 
The u.s. RomM Catholc Bishops address these matters as pastors, not politiCal loaders or polcy experts. We believe these dobltullavolundamental moral dimensions and human conse· quencas. As reUgiOUI teiChers, we bring strong convictions aboUt IUnan IHe and human dignity, fami­ly and work, personal and pUblic rosponslllltty, and subsidiary and solidarity. we are also deeply Involved In our communities. W8 lead the hungary, shelter tho homeless, and welcome refUgees. W8 educate tho YOIIIU and care lor the old. we help people move from wonare to work. We bring both strong moral principles and everyday experience to these matters. 
In the wllllare, tax, and budget debates, of Conference beHaves the nation should put put poor chldren and families nrst OUr agenda Is In the defense of human IHe and human dignity, not the adv•e of any parllaan or Ideological cause. We believe the moral measure of our society Is how our weaknt members are faring. 
n 11 Claar that our nation must restrain ns spending to keep rrom fUrther mortgaging our chldren's future. we must reform awenare system which too otten hUrts children and IDidermlnes lamlllu. Many working and mldll•class lamiUes leal squeezed by declining real Incomes, the costs ol railing children, and the burdens of taxu. 
O• national leaders need to loca on creating decent work, supporting lamly IHe and pro­tactmg children. Our Con1erence supports wenara reform that empbasllas both personal and social responsibility, but oppo181 punitive measures now before Congress Which hurt children and •our­age abortion. We support appropriate Involvement or states IIIII local co•unltY 1111t1tut10111, but we oppose anational retreat In hi atruuUII against pover!J We support fiscal restraint, but we ca1110t budget priOrltlu which reqUire manlve cuts for poor children and working lamUiel. 
The Clthollc Bishops Conference ca1110t support poliCies which llldermlne lndlscrlmlnantly the poorest members of our society, blaming them not only lor their personal plight and poverty, but IIIIa lor many or the other economic and social Ills anectlng 011' country. l•lurants and 11111111bera of minority groups are particularly vulnerable In this dangerous blame game. 
011' Catholc tralltlon avoids the polariZation of the IdeologiCal extremes. 1IUe need new poll­c181 that recognize what markets CM and cannot do, that accept the responsibilities and lmHatlons or goviii'MIIIIt, and that anlrm the contributions and constraints or volUntary groups In overcoming poverty and pursuing greater economic jUstice. This wftl not be easy In asociety or urowlng econont­lc and po1mca1 polariZation, but n Ia aprofound moral Md roUUioa chauenge. 
Therefore, we renew our cell for genuine welfare reform and other pollctes Which promote work, strengthen lamlles, and protect chldren -born and unborn. And we Join With our Pro-lila and Domestic Polley Commltt888 In urging Congr• to reject cuts In the Earned Income TaX Credit and other legislative mea811'8s which hurt children and encourage abortion. 
Racal restraint and eliminating dellclts are neceuary, but the weakest members of • soci­etY Should not bear the greatest burdens. Poor ramillet and children may not have powerful lobbies, but they have the greatest needs. We rear those measures now befOre Congress and the Allmlnlltratlon undermine the natiOnal aarety net, embrace dangerous polcles whiCh WUI encourage abortion, target logall•lurants unfairly, and retreat from the nation's commitment to protect poor chldron... 
Paid for by Student Government 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio 
Balkan negotiators headed 
.into a second all-night session 
Monday in a desperate effort 
to settle Europe's bloodiest 
conflict since World War 11. 
Prospects for an agreement 
remained uncertain. 
"It's really still 50·50," a 
U.S. official said in declaring a news "lid" shortly after 10 
p.m. EST, ruling out further announcements at least until after dawn. 
Some Balkan leaders sug· 
gested a new round of talks 
may be needed to resolve the 
contentious issue of how to di­
vide Bosnia into ethnic re· 
publics. 
As the talks teetered on a 
knife's edge beyond a U.S,·im· 
posed deadline, President 
Clinton Intervened from 
Washington with a last-ditch 
telephone call to Croatia's 
President Pranjo Tudjman. 
Senior members of both the Bosnian and the Serbian dele­gations confirmed that the · talks had run into trouble over territorial issues but stressed that negotiations were contin­
uing into the night. 
"l think the people here are 
determin-ed to continue these 
negotiations,'' State Depart· 
ment spokesman Nicholas 
Burns said Monday night. "I 
think they have a legitimate 
shot at succeeding." 
From the Serb delegation, meanwhile, came late word the negotiations were on the upswing nftHr a gloomy morn· ing and afternoon. It was any­one's guess what the outcome would be. 
And from the Croatian dele­gation later came word than only 1 percent of Bosnian territory was in dispute. 
In New York, a U.S. diplo· mat said the U.N. Security Council was prepared to con· vene hours after any agree· ment was initialed to consider suspending the U.N. economic embargo against Serbia. 
"We are in extra innings," said a senior U.S. official as Secretary of State Warren Christopher rejoined the talks Monday morning with only two hours' sleep. "Maybe at the end of the day we'll take stock of where we are. We'll take it one step at a time. hour by hour." 
Christopher met several times with all three Balkan leaders. "We're still talking, and that's a positive sign," another U.S. official said late Monday afternoon. 
Workers began loading bag· gage onto a Yugoslav airliner after they were checked by bomb-sniffing dogs. The sec· ond official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Christopher and all three Balkan presidents were leav· ing Monday night -agree· mentor not. 
Clinton, however, called Tudjman to urge him to holp resolve territorial problems and he received "an encour· aging reply," said a senior Clinton administration official. 
Some employers promise you the world. We offer you achance to make the world better. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 

Happy 18th Birthday to our Party Boy! 
We Love You Pampu! Baba, Ma, and Dada 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 




VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Tuesday, November 21, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
john Lucas 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Elizabeth Regan joseph Riley 
News Editor .................•.............. David Tyler Advertising Manager ...........................John Poner Viewpoint Editor .................. Michael O"Hara Ad Design Manager ..................... .}en Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Ediwr ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director.......... Pete Coleman ControUer ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. It does not necessarily retlect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Edimr, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemarics, letters and Inside Columns presC:nt the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advenising 631-6900/8840 Sporn 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• AND IN THIS CORNER ••• 
A four-day holiday: Let us give Thanks 
L
et me begin by extending apologies to Professor Rice and particularly to Fred Kelly. I in no way meant to vilify Mr. Kelly or to endorse vilification; I also want to make clear that I support the freedom of speech in every way. Of course, I vehemently disagree with nearly everything the aforementioned two have to say, but as Voltaire 
S
peaking of jokes, I could write about the "shut down" of the federal gov­ernment this past week, but that's sort of a non-issue for me. To be honest, I didn't even realize the government had shut down until it was two days into it. It still doesn't come as much of a surprise. Apparently wouldbe international trav­elers were dis­gruntled that the 
said, "I may dis-passport offices agree with what were closed. Well, you say, but I will everyone knew as defend to the far back as July death your right that the budget to say it." debate was going
Matthew Apple
End of conces­to get ugly. It's sions. not as if you 
Originally couldn't get a wanted to write passport a few 
I
a b o u t Thanksgiving; about how few people know that it was instituted as a national holiday by Abraham Lincoln at the insistence of the author of "Mary Had a Little Lamb," and how FDR pushed the date back one week to lengthen the Christmas shop­ping season, and how now everyone seems to use it merely as another excuse to watch non-stop football and get drunk and join the madding crowds in malls across this great land of ours ­but I couldn't think of anything interest­ing enough about it to write nine hun­dred words. 've also been fighting a wicked cold brought on primarily by my apart­ment's single-pane windows and rapidly spreading mildew, which, combined with an inability to sleep, would take the edge off of any verbal haranguing I could possibly devise on any topic. So, I'm afraid this week's column may be a bit more incoherent than it usually is. 
While I'm at it, I'd like to quash the notion of a colleague of mine who thinks I think I'm Dave Barry. I write nothing like Dave Barry. I haven't got a single balding guy or marriage joke in me. 
months ahead of 
I
time. Frankly, I'm hoping this fiasco will show American voters just how useless and unnecessary government and politics are in the end. I don't see any great crisis around here. do feel some sort of sympathy for the thousands of "furloughed" federal workers, most of whom undoubtedly have families to feed. I feel somewhat less sympathy for the laid-off workers of the Social Security department. My tax money goes to pay 50,000+ workers to write 2,000,000+ checks using more of my tax money for a program that never should have been started in the first place and most likely will no longer exist by the time I'm any where near consid­ering retirement. 
And I feel absolutely no sympathy at all for certain furloughed workers of the Armed Forces, such as the man ESPN interviewed during the Air Force game. This guy from Air Force's "Sports Information Bureau" was whining because his job had been deemed "non­essential." What a lame job. I'd say it's pretty much a waste of taxpayer money to pay some guy to supply Air Force football statistics to the media. Even more ridiculous, the federal government pays for the upkeep of the military mas­cots, Army's donkeys. Navy's goats and Air Force's falcons, not to mention the vehicles and the gas wasted when cadets play pranks by stealing other academy's mascots. Utter foolishness. Those stupid goats probably receive bet­ter health care than the entire lower quartile of the American population. 

Next on today's untidy agenda, I hear a few students have to walk from the parking lot to class. Someone even took the time and care to measure to the sec­ond how long it takes to walk from the student parking lot to Hesburgh and La Fortune. Poor babies. Guess you'd better start wearing gloves. I walk twenty min­utes to campus twice a day, and I know students who walk farther than I do. A ten minute walk is not going to give you killer frostbite if you're wearing winter clothing. It takes longer sometimes to walk between classes. At worst you'll have to get up a few minutes earlier in the morning. 
A nd, finally, I will refrain from com­ftmenting in these pages upon any publications produced by ultra-right wing, Cross-kissing, Bible-thumping extremists. They're just not worth my attention. It's pointless to waste time trying to establish a dialog with some­one who is convinced they have all the answers a priori. Plus, I'm allergic to fascists. In fact, I think I feel a sneeze coming ... 
Matthew Apple is a Creative Writing graduate student at Notre Dame. Leave a message at the sound of the hacking and coughing at matthew. t. apple.l @nd. edu. 
•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
IJRAMATIC.' BefORe 7J?AO& 8AR­t<J&I<S tV/iR/3talJ/iREl1 ONl-Y AJ}U/..7 M/3N 9rf{J(Ef}. BUT ?HANKS TOAM&!?JCANAPVfi<715/NGIWIJ PR0Mm70~ AU. 7H4T'S CHAN'f&IJ-'  50 YOU'RE P!<OMOTING FAIRNt-':6?  

• QmnE Of THE DAY 
"And to give thanks is good, and to forgive." 
--Algernon Charles Swinburne 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 


VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 21, 1995 page 7 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Tolerance today ensures a diverse and interesting tomorrow 
I
Dear Editor: t is always convenient to justify brutal actions by placing the blame on the victim. As a society, we often appeal to the "they deserved it" ideology to dis­miss ourselves from any responsibility for violence or oppression against minorities. Sexism, racism, and intoler­ance provide justification for this mal­treatment of marginalized groups and eon tribute to our fragmented view of the past and future of society. 
In his Nov. 9 letter to The Observer, Fred Kelly justifies the oppression of Native Americans by claiming that Europeans are superior as a race, and thus had the right and duty to force Native Americans to follow their tradi­tions and religion. However, with this daim he ignores the reality of the vio­hmt conquest and actually ends up cele­brating the violation of the "natural law" he so admires. 
A recurrent theme of Kelly's letter is the idea of a "natural law" which by def­inition cannot be violated by any "civi­lized" pnople. He maintains that the European conquerors did the Native Americans a favor by brutally conquer­ing them, because they were "savages" in violation of this law. I find it interest­ing that the European violations of this very law are conveniently overlooked in his letter, and that he excuses Europeans from adhering to it while adamantly holding the Native Americans to it. For example, he contends that the Native Americans ruled through war­fare, which is a violation of natural law. 
If I am not mistaken, warfare is still very much a part of our society today, in fact, as much as it was 500 years ago. While we were so busy curing this new continent of its "utter lack of civiliza­tion," we also found time to make slaves of Native Americans, rob their riches, fight wars in Europe, and pursue the ultimate in Christian virtue: the Spanish Inquisition. Perhaps the Europeans were actually less "civilized" than the Native Americans themselves, as we have not made much progress towards a society ruled by natural law in the past 500 years. Velly goes on to criticize the Native &Americans as being racist and femi­nist, two ideologies he seems to identify with perfectly in his letter. Not only is he espousing racism by stereotyping Native American tribes and denouncing them as an inferior race in need of salvation, he demonstrates his sexism in an espe­
W
cially disturbing manner. omen were by no means treated better under European rule than they were under that of the Native Americans, and while Kelly would have us believe that Christopher Columbus freed women from being concubines, the conquerors really did nothing more than allow them to become concubines for the Europeans. I consider his argument personally offensive and insulting to women everywhere when he suggests that feminists would "admire" certain tribes for forcing women to become con­cubines and thus be "put to work." With this remark Kelly demonstrates a com­plete lack of understanding of the most basic ideas of the feminism he so easily stereotypes. 
More importantly, he once again alludes to the superiority of the "civi­lized" Europeans, who did nothing more than rape and enslave thousands of indigenous women. While I could also pick apart, his premises of our "para­noia" with sexism and the idea that our society does not tolerate "distinction between the sexes" (When did this hap­pen? Can we no longer easily distinguish between men and women even on the basis of sight alone?), this would require 

On the wrong side of the law 
I
Dear Editor: rnad the article of Fred Kelly's on Natural law over multiculturalism titled "God Bless Columbus," and to say that I found thn article oll'ensive is the least I could say. Heartbreaking, not unusual. or siekening appears more appro­priate. But, this article is not designed to bash Kelly or his viBws, because as an American, he has an unalienable right to llXpress himself which should b!l respected. But, Kelly, as it is your right to express your views. it is also my right to express mine which are in opposition. as well as, show the otlwr side of the story. not filled with the propagandistic-let's hlamtHhe-past-on-others idea, I mad in your article. S
First, I would like to address "mercilnss and savage." Unfortunately, no culture is unique or excluded ot these two words. I agree with you when you stated "Of course; they were men like anyone else." They wnre. Thll things you accust~d the Native American nations in existence before and after Columbus of doing, occurred in llVt)ry society, whnthnr Christian or non­Christian. o the qunstion I pose to you now is, because Native Anwricans "were men like any­onn nlsn", does it not make mankind savage also (including Columhusl't Nativtl Americans wnrtl not pnrfect. like humanity, and they were not treated as humans. but as you called them so insultingly throughout your artidtl -savages. despite the tlvils in llw Nativll American dvilization, thny had a rich cui­turn of tlwir own. 
Each nation possess its own culturtl, language, ideas, hPiitlfs, and laws. (To catego­riw "Indians" under one speeif­it: group is a falsll represtlnta­tion. l With their dviliztld idnas and btlliPfs. Nalivn Americans wnrn strippnd of it in order to conform to tlw "corrnct" whitn 1-:uropHans who entered their lanll. Your representation of Native Anwricans as savages and "lacking of civilization" bothers me. Approaching Thanksgiving, have you forgot­ten tht) story which represented some Native American tribes who were friendly to whites without being "literally eaten" by another group? Plymouth Hock, Jamestown, and other European settlements' survival depended on their Native American counterparts. "America" would not have existed, as it is today without the first "Americans". 
Your article struck me as dis­torted. First, I would like to state that Europeans who brought their Christian ideas to the Native Americans terror­ized, massacred, and assimilat­ed the first inhabitants of America. If the Iroquois, unfa­miliar with the doctrines of Christianity appear barbaric, how do the "spreaders of the Word" appear when they con­tradict themselves with a reli­gion who says everyone's equal when it's painfully obvious that white Europeans thought they were superior to the "savages" whom they equated to animals? 
Another quote I want to men­tion for discussion is : "Is there no such thing as natural law? Can man do such violence to the natural law and still be civi­lized. let alone praiseworthy, as the multiculturalists seem to think? Does NASA-NO believe that natural law exists?" You mention two things in this sec­tion: one is natural law and Christianity (which is implied in the preceding quote). First, I begin with natural law. 
A
Your idea of natural law is distorted. To answer the sec­ond question on natural law and with the basic definition given in the question, I ask another question to answer yours. Based on our knowledge of violence in the history of human society. (as I said before) is there any exempt from being called "not civi­lized", if we use your basic defi­nition of what "civilized" is? nd to answer your first and third question. respectively, yes natural law does exist and NASA-ND recognized this nat­ural law in thier need to remove the murals. NASA-NO recognized that their culture despite flaws and evils, deserves respect instead of being denounced. They have the right as humans to be toler­ated, because they are a part of the human race. As humans, under the natural law (equating to God's Law), Native an entirely different letter to the editor! 
In closing, I believe it is a grave mis­take for anyone to denounce multicul­turalism in our modern society. In a world that is becoming increasingly interconnected, there is a great need for tolerance and respect for people of other cultures. Furthermore, any educated person cannot deny the influence of countless cultures on our society. Even Kelly was not born in a bubble: like all Americans, he shares a common culture with people very different than himself, even people he claims to be superior to. 1 A That hope can we have for a just
V V future without mutual tolerance and the eradication of stereotypes that contribute to racism and sexism? We do, in fact, live in a world with people of very different backgrounds, religions, and traditions, and these people are not going to disappear. What a terribly bor­ing world it would be without these dif­ferences. So I end as Kelly ended his let­ter: God bless all cultures and peoples, and may he allow all to flourish in a just future! 
ERIN MCMAHON 
Junior 
Farl~y Hall 
W
Americans, before receiving the Word, were protected by God despite being ignorant of the Word (2 Peter 2:21 and James 4:17). This is what NASA-NO recognized, but others failed to see. By decreeing Native Americans before the conver­sion (and after) as "subhu­mans", the religious leaders did not understand or believe in the natural law. hy are the murals offen­sive? They truly depicted Native America as well as African American as inferior, because they had not been con­verted yet. And if you are sug­gesting my ancestors are inferi­or that's not only an insult but is blatantly racist. Because NASA-NO recognizes this fact, their request is valid. Needing respect and com fort in their home, educator, and provider as Notre Dame is suppose to or "attempt to " represent, NASA­NO's call for the murals (which gave them, as well as other minorities, a feel of discomfort) to come down is understand­able. M
The point of my article is not to point fingers or point blame at someone. My article is about exposing the truth and sharing a dialogue with someone I am in opposition with at an educa­tional institution. Personally, I'm tired of the scapegoating, and I want an open dialogue for why anyone would feel the way you do. (I'm also tired of throwing out the word "racist" although in so many situations it fits tightly as a glove.) aybe you would like to know why I feel the way I do. It's strange how in the last couple of weeks how so many articles stated "sympathy" for the "sufferings" and "pains" of minorities, but when minorities try to pour out their heart (the problems and complications of being a minority), the majority ignores it as imaginary, bitter­ness, or paranoia. Nothing Kelly writes gives another race the right, despite the other race's own evils or shortcom­ings, to oppress that race. My Christian religion taught me this in bible class, what about yours? 
LATRECIA WILSON Junior Walsh Hall 

Modern savagery 
Dear Editor: 
1 was shocked and disgusted when I read Fred Kelly's article in the November 9 issue of the Observer. What responsible editor would print an article that applauds and dignifies the white race's rape, plunder, and genocide of a whole race of people? 
I find it hard to believe that any member of the white race can have the audacity and hypocrisy to call any other culture savage. The white race is the biggest murderer, rapist, pil­lager, and thief of the modern world. Europeans have colo­nized and destroyed the indigenous populations on every conti­nent of this planet. They have committed genocide against cul­tures that have never offended them in their greed and insa­tiable desire to control and dominate every non-white culture. 
Christopher Columbus and those like him were no difi'erent then Hitler . The crimes they committed were unnecessarily cruel and can only be described as aets of the devil. Africans had been to the Americas long before Columbus or any Europeans. The difference is that Africans had the decency and respect for human life to learn from the Native Americans and trade technology with them. The pyramids of the Aztecs and the great stone heads of the Olmecs are lasting manum­nets to the friendship of these two peoples. But as David Walker wrote in his Appeal in 1829, the white men acted "more like devils than accountable men... whites have always been an unjust. jealous, unmerciful, avaricious, and blood· thirsty set of beings, always seeking after power and uuthori­ty." It was not enough for whites to come to the Americas and learn, they looked upon the native people as Inferior and a people to be annihilated. Their lasting monument was the destruction and enslavement of two races of people. 
Using Christianity as their excuse, the white race denied the native people their humanity. Not only did they rape and murder the indigenous peoples of America. but they killed ofT many more by introducing diseases which came from filth and uncleanliness to the native people. The white race used deceit and trickery, warfare and rape, to steal the land from the peo­ple that had lived here for thousands and thousands of years. Over and over again whites made peace treaties with the Native Americans telling them that if they moved just this one last time and gave up their land to the greedy settlers just this one last time they would never have to move again. It was common knowledge that the white man's word could not be trusted. 
Even today, the descendants of these savage people pump drugs and guns into the Balck community, pack Black people into the squalor ol' segregated urban ghettos. and continue ot be bloodsuckers in our communites. Yos, it was Columbus that set the platforms for these racist American institutions. A devil calling someone a savage is like the pot calling the kettln black. 
But after everything that those barbaric devils did, I do not hate them or their descendants. I understand that because of some lacking, they needed ot eonstantly prove their superiori­ty. Kelly felt threatened by NASA-NO's exposm·e of' the true Columbus, so he felt it necessary to degrade their whole cul­ture to maintain his security. Fred Kelly, I pity you for feeling that just because you are white and Christian, you can celtl­brate the destruction of another human being. In closing, a famous American, who was beat down by memers of the chris­tian society, once said "Why can't we all just get ulong?" Why? because white America's dream is colored America's night­mare. To Kelly I say: It does not t'eel good to have your cui· ture put under a microscope, does it? 
NICOLE HANNAH Sophomore Brrcn-Phillip' 
;ACC6NT
page 8 November 21, 1995 

r~e 

For those of you staying on campus during Thanksgiving break, here are a few ideas so your weekend won't be for the birds 
By BETSY BOWMAN 
Accent Writer 
S
o you're stuck here for Thanksgiving. You couldn't find a ride home and don't have an extra four hundred dollars lying around to pay for the plane ticket. Or you're an athlete and the scheduling gods stuck you with a game this weekend. While your family is at home doing all that family stuff, you're here not doing much of anything. So, what are you going to do with yourself? 
Unfortunately, Thanksgiving is the holiday that Hallmark left behind. Sandwiched between Halloween and Christmas, Thanksgiving sometimes seems like an afterthought to the whole holiday season. So, while you're sitting in your dorm this weekend, you can't just break out the Thanksgiving carols and the blink­ing turkey lights to put you in the holiday mood; It's going to take a whole lot more creativity than that. You could gather a few friends and try to re-enact the first Thanksgiving in Plymouth, but then you'd have to clear the snow off the picnic tables and find a big rock, and that would be far too much work. Or there's always those paper turkeys you made in third grade­you know, the ones you made by tracing your hand on construction paper. Then again, that requires Elmer's glue, and there's just not a whole lot of that lying around. Well, maybe none of these ideas will work out, so for all you lucky boys and girls privileged enough to spend this Thanksgiving in scenic Mishawaka, here are a few more suggestions on how to keep your weekend interesting (and maybe even a little festive too). 
One unique thing about Thanksgiving is that no mat­ter who you are, or where you're from, everyone .pret­ty much celebrates it the same way. Sure, some fami­lies have apple pie and others have pumpkin, and some like their potatoes mashed while others serve sweet potatoes. But to most people, Thanksgiving means three things: the Macy's Parade, football, and of course, food. 
These first two qualifications are easy ones to meet, even at Thanksgiving a la Notre Dame. The parade starts early, continues until about noon, and is on at least three channels at a time. Just turn on the TV any time in the morning, you can't miss it. As for the football, c'mon, this is Notre Dame. Of course there's football! On ABC at 11 a.m., Georgia takes on Georgia Tech, on FOX at noon Minnesota plays Detroit, on NBC at 4 p.m. is Kansas City vs. Dallas, and if you're still awake at 8 p.m., ESPN will air the Texas-Baylor game. 
Now, before you get down and dirty preparing your Thanksgiving meal, you could make your way over to the Basilica for the 11:30 a.m. Mass. Remember what Thanksgiving is really all about and go say thanks to The Man. Besides, you might want to ask for some Divine Inspiration before you attempt Thanksgiving dinner on your own. 
The best part of Thanksgiving is, of course, the turkey dinner. Here, you have a couple of options. The easiest (not to mention the cheapest) option is def­initely the dining hall. Before you go off on a tirade about how you don't like North because of the weird colored lights over the food, and you don't like South because it's too crowded, and you couldn't possibly subject yourself to that scary "special sauce" they try to pass off as gravy, just listen first. Thanksgiving dinner at the dining hall will not be like every other night. No, the pumpkin pie isn't your mom's, but it's better than your average dining hall cuisine. Some students have even ventured to call the meal "nice." Now, that's quite a compliment. 
The second possibility for your Thanksgiving dining pleasure is to eat at a restaurant off campus. So what ifthere's no such thing as Thanksgiving in most of the rest of the world? Be multicultural about it and have dinner at The Great Wall. Or if you've recently won the lottery and can afford it, Tippecanoe Place will also be open on Thanksgiving day. However, many restaurants will be closed on Thursday, so call ahead. 
Finally, (and this suggestion is not for the weak of heart) you could try to throw together Thanksgiving dinner yourself. Don't worry, there is actually a way to do it yourself that doesn't even involve an oven or a meat thermometer. All you need is about twenty dollars and a little ingenuity. 
Think about it, what are the basics for Thanksgiving dinner? You need turkey, pota­toes, vegetables, salad, pie, ice cream and cof­fee. Believe it or not, our very own LaFortune "Convenience Store" can provide you with all of these...or at least it can provide you with some thing edible which in some remote way resembles your old holiday favorites. 
Salad 1.75 
Turkey Sandwich 3.50 

(Complete with a side order of grapes and a maca­roni salad thing) 
Potato Buds 1.29 
(unfortunately this one requires milk, water and salt. If that's a little too much work, you could always just get a bag of potato chips for . 99) 
Vegetable Soup 1.19 Hostess Apple Pie .85 (Sorry, there's just nothing pumpkin in the whole place.) 
Vanilla Haagen Das Ice Cream 2.69 Folgers coffee 1.99 
And think about it, all this can be yours for the super-low Thanksgiving price of just $13.36! 
S
o, once you've stuffed your face and sat on the couch watching football for four hours, it might be a good idea to roll off the couch and waddle up the stairs into bed. Remember, Thanksgiving day is a hol­iday...no studying allowed. 
Starting on Friday, you have the rest of the weekend to yourself. Use it to catch up on some much needed sleep, or spend an afternoon e-mailing your friends who haven't heard from you in a month and think you've fallen off the face of the earth. You could redecorate your room (wouldn't your roommate be thrilled?) or, if it's absolutely necessary, you could get a head start on studying for finals (believe it or not, they're only tlhree weeks away ... ) 
Other than these outrageously thrilling possibilities, most of the regular South Bend hangouts will be open for business this weekend. Movies 10 will be open on Thanksgiving day as well as the rest of the weekend, and University Park mall and theaters will be open on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. 
A
nd if you don't even want to dig through the couch cushions to find the 75¢ for the bus to get off campus, b 0 t h 
a n d Saturday nights the Notre Dame hock­ey team will be play­ing Lake Superior State at the JACC at 7 p.m.. Go out and cheer on the team -you have no excuse because it doesn't cost anything, there's not a pep rally happening at the same time and there's really not a whole lot else going on. Besides, Lake State is a tough team, and our guys could use the support. 
Basically the key to success this weekend is to kick back, relax and enjoy the holiday. Maybe South Bend wasn't your first choice for where to spend Thanksgiving, but you're here, so you may as well make the most of it. 


ACCE-NT .­
November 21, 1995 page 9 


• 
Everything you wanted to know about turkey... but were afraid to ask 
By CHRIS MIGNANELLI Accent Writer 
E 
vnry year about this time, the family gathers around the table to give thanks and eat until they eannot move. Thanksgiving is a day full of tradi­tion. football and food. And, however diverse the indi­t----vidual traditions may be, turkey will always be at the eenter of the Thanksgiving feast. It is essential to the meal that this bird sits at the middle of the table ... but why is 
this so? 
We all know the familiar 
story. 
-
The Pilgrims and the Indians got together to have a feast of Thanksgiving. There was eorn and cranberries and all of the wonderful foods we assoeiate with the holiday in 
current times. Of course, we all picture 
the eldest pilgrim carrying in a plump turkey just as the meal begins, while all the others watch with wor­shipping reverence. This is the story we all performed in our second grade plays, and the event we give credit to for our turkey tradition. But what most of us do not know is that there was much more than just turkey at the first Thanksgiving. 
"The pilgrims survived through the winter. They were sure eating more than just turkey!" Darrin Kelly of Alumni Hall remarks. "They were feasting on every­thing they could find. Deer, rabbit, you name it. Turkey was not the only meat. They threw a kickin' party!" 
If this is true, then why is it that it is the turkey that we still eat today? Kelly had an answer for this as well. "Turkeys are easier to raise for the purpose of consump­tion. And besides, it looks cool at the center of the table." Well, for whatever reason cultural selection chose turkey for Thanksgiving, it appears to a tradition that almost no one deviates from. However, individual feelings on turkey vary from personality to personality. 
Claire Halbritter of Regina Hall brings up a commonly felt point: "Without turkey, there is no Thanksgiving. But, I wouldn't eat it on any other day. It's only good when accompanied by the other traditional dishes. I guess I don't really like it, but I can't go through Thanksgiving without it." While she does seem to con­tradict herself, Halbritter expresses a view that is evi­dent in the minds of many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
It can be assumed, then, that it is merely tradition that brings the turkey back to the Thanksgiving table each year. If it really was only taste that mattered , we would all have something different. "I know I'd eat roast beef. But come on, Thanksgiving and roast beef? No way," 
states Saint Mary's resident Bernadette Quast. 
While the turkey tradition dies hard for most, there are still those who feel no love for the bird. Kristin Souers of Farley Hall explains that turkey has never been the center of her Thanksgiving table. Rather, her family eats steak. "Why should a holiday revolve around a bird? We don't like turkey, so it makes no sense to have a meal with a hated poultry at the center," she 
proclaims. It does not bother Souers that she and her family stray from tradition either. 
"Steak is our tradition, I suppose. Besides, we're not really into Thanksgiving anyway, but we'd feel like misfits if we didn't do anything." Certainly, to some, Thanksgiving means more than turkey. It is the day that counts: a day with the family. 
"I've never liked turkey, but I love 
Thanksgiving. It is a day in which my family 
and I are at peace and can spend quality time 
together. And, while everyone else eats turkey, I 
can· eat all the Spam I want." Notre Dame stu­
dent Andy Grohman reflects a common attitude 
about turkey with this statement. Thanksgiving 
holds some meaning for almost everyone. But. for 
a few... it means absolutely nothing. 
Young Doo "Chile Dan" Chung has never celebrated 
Thanksgiving. Coming from Chile, the NO student has never been exposed to the holiday, not to mention the importance of turkey. "It's just a bird you can eat. Nothing too special about that." America's allegiance to turkey is definitely an unusual one. However, it is the central symbol for a holiday that we hold dear. 
T
urkey is so much more than simply an edible bird. It reminds us all of the "union and bond of friendship that was made between two different peoples," as NO student Miguel Tapia says. As we sit and look at our turkey, we cannot help but feel how wonderful the first Thanksgiving must have been. The pilgrims, who sought freedom so wholeheartedly, braved through the harsh winter and sat down to give thanks and to enjoy the company of their new friends. It may sound a little odd, but a browned turkey dressed to perfection can produce nostalgia for a time that none of us ever knew. Maybe it is only on Thanksgiving that turkey is so pow­erful, but one cannot question its significance on the day. 
Yes, it is the meaning of turkey which places it at the center of our Thanksgiving tables, but let's not forget the millions who love the taste as well. For symbolic mean­ings, feelings of love and thanks is one thing, but when the turkey is in front of us smothered in gravy, our stom­achs do the thinking. As Pangborn resident Colleen McBride put it, turkey is important primarily because, "It's good." 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
Heartburn: The Curse of Thanksgiving Dinner 
By LIZA NYKIEL 
Accent Medic;a] Correspondent 
T
hanksgiving is a wonderful holiday, filled with the warmth of family, the reunion of . . old friends and entirely too much food to be consumed in one day. It's the only holiday thatl can think of when all the attention of the day is· focused not on gift· giving or fireworks, but on pure, unadulterated EATING. It's also the one holiday of the year when we really put our digestive systems to the test. As organized and calculated as this system is, sometimes it just can't stomach (pardon the pun) the huge amounts of food that we eat, and things like heartburn ean occur. 
Our digestive system, theoretically, is one big, 2&·foot-long tube. The digestion of food both mechanically and chemically is a coordinated effott with a main purpose: to extract vitamins, nutrients and other essentials from the food we eat; Starting in the mouth, mechanically, we start to break down food with chewing, and chemically, with the enzyme amylase. which starts the breakdown of carbohydrates, starch­es and simple sugars. When we swallow, we force the food down our esophagus. With invol­untary ring-like contractions, the glob of food, now called the bolus, is pushed down to the start of the stomach in a swift 5-9 seconds. 
At the opening to the stomaeh is a valve or $phincter which relaxes when food approaches it, allowing the food to pass into the stomach. lrnrnediately upon passage of the bolus, the valve closes again so that the food or any of the acidic enzymes in the stomach can't be regurgi­tated back into the esophagus. Once in the stomach, the three layers of smooth muscle that make up the stomach's walls essentially toss the bolus back and forth while the addic enzymes of the stomach chemically digest the food. 
The chemical HCI. or hydrochloric acid, is involved in this chemical breakdown, and would eat through the walls of the stomach if it wasn't for a layer of mucous lining the stom­ach. (When this mucous lining is missing, the acidic chemicals of the stomach can start to degrade the lining and ulcers can occur.) After partial digestion occurs in the stomach, the food passes into the small intestine 'Where digestion continues and absorption occurs, and eventually into the large intestine, where water and salt is extracted and the remaining food wait~ to be defecated. 
Now, as with all of our bodies' systems, some­times things don't always work as they should. With the digestive system, one of the most com· mon ailments is heartburn, which has nothing to do with your heart, as you might have guessed. Heartburn is caused by a failure of the valve which regulates the passage of t'ood into the stomach to close tightly. If this valve does not close completely, the acidic digestive juices can be regurgitated. Being acidic, these chemieals essentially burn the lower part of the esophagus, causing a burning sensation that arises behind the sternum, or breastbone, and can spread as high as the jaw and mouth. 
This failure of the sphincter to close properly can be caused by a number of things, including congenital malformations, stress, obesity, preg· nancy, excessive air swallowed, and stress or emotionally-draining situations. which may affect the nerves controlling the opening and closing of the valve. Lying down after eating can intensify the heartburn, ·a scenario not so uncommon after eating pounds of turkey and stuffing on Thanksgiving. Antadds, which are essentially chalky, alkaline substances, can help to alleviate heartburn by combining with the acidic stomach chemicals and neutralizing them. So as you prepare for that trek home for Thanksgiving, remember this: turkey day is not complete without homemade stulling, deli· cious sweet potatoes and at least a dozen rolls of Turns for dessert. 
Liza Nykiel is a .senior biology major who is painstakingly waiting to hear from medical schools, one of which she hopes to attend next fall. 



Elvis shuffles past Canadiens spear Whalers 
Marino-led Miami 
By STEVEN WINE 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
Elvis Grbac and the San Francisco 49ers upstaged Dan Marino. 
Grbac threw for 382 yards and four scores, negating two touchdown passes by Marino that tied Fran Tarkenton's ca­reer NFL record, and San Francisco produced another blowout at Joe Robbie Stadium by beating Miami 44-20 Mon­day night. 
Even more lopsided than the 49ers' 49-26 rout of San Diego in last season's Super Bowl at Miami, the victory was espe­cially impressive on the heels of their 38-20 romp past Dallas eight days earlier. 
San Francisco (7 -4) again won without injured quarter­back Steve Young, who warmed up before the game but watched from the sideline while Grbac completed 31 of 41 passes. He improved to 3-2 as a starter this season. 
The 49ers sacked Marino on the first three plays, and then it got worse for the Dolphins (6­5). Before Marino could match the career record he coveted most-Tarkenton's 342 touch­down passes -San Francisco led 38-13. 
The record-tying pass was a 4-yarder to O.J. McDuffie late in the third quarter. Marino earlier threw a 42-yard touch­down pass to Gary Clark. 
Marino, who broke Tarken­ton's records for passing yardage and completions ear­lier this year in games Miami lost, completed 23 of 38 passes for 255 yards. 
The reeling Dolphins, who have lost five of their past seven games, fell two games behind AFC East leader Buf­falo. The 49ers pulled into a first-place tie with Atlanta in the NFC West. 
Grbac riddled a Miami sec­ondary plagued by dissension and breakdowns in recent weeks, throwing touchdown passes of 4 7 and 46 yards to Rice and 23 and 2 yards to Brent Jones. Rice extended his NFL record to 151 career touchdowns. 
San Francisco scored on six of seven possessions during one stretch that produced 34 points. 
Safety Merton Hanks had an interception and a 31-yard fumble return to set up 10 points for San Francisco. Both turnovers came on bobbles by McDuffie. 
The 49ers started as quickly as they did in January against San Diego. After Miami took the kickoff, Marino was sacked by Bryant Young on the first two plays and then by Rickey Jackson. 
The Dolphins punted, and San Francisco scored four play­ers later on Derek Laville's 3­yard run. 
Marino made the score 7-7 early in the second quarter, sidestepping a sack on third down and finding Clark 10 yards behind cornerback Mar­quez Pope for the score. 
San Francisco regained the lead for good on Rice's 150th career touchdown. He feinted past cornerback J.B. Brown to catch a 4 7 -yard touchdown pass from Grbac. 
Hanks set up San Francisco's next score, scooping up Mc­Duffie's fumble and returning it to the Miami 22. 
Associated Press 
MONTREAL Turner Stevenson finally is back on track. 
The Montreal right winger scored 3:12 into overtime Monday night, giving the Canadiens a 4-3 victory over the slumping Hartford Whalers and their fifth straight victory. 
"I've been working on going to the net -that's what you have to do to score," said Stevenson, who took advantage of a turnover in the Hartford zone to flip a backhand shot into an open side past Sean Burke. 
After going scoreless in his first 15 games this season, Stevenson got his first of the season in a 5-l win over Ottawa last Saturday night. With goals in consecutive games, he thinks the pressure is off. 
"I thought this was one of my better games," he said. "I was a lot more comfortable. 
"I was pressing before, trying to get my first goal. I have to work the corners and go to the net. That's my game. I can't take it end to end. I give it to Vincent Damphousse for that." 
Stevenson also set up a fine screen for Brian Savage's 16th goal of the season. 
Damphousse and Pierre Tur­geon also scored for the Cana­diens. Kevin Smyth, Geoff Sanderson and Steven Rice scored for the Whalers, who have won just three of their last 11. 
"I feel disheartened for ev­erybody," Burke said. "You know the Canadiens are going to come out strong in their building and you've got to weather the storm. We did that. That's a goalie's job, to keep his team in the game. We had a chance to win and we came away with nothing and that's disappointing." 
Hartford went ahead 1-0 when Smyth scored in his sec­ond game since his recall from the minors last Friday. He took an errant puck that bounced off Damphousse's skate and shot into an open side on a power play at 10:53 of the second. 
Turgeon tied it at 17:19 on a power play, deflecting in Patrice Brisebois' point shot from the edge of the crease. 
Savage got a screened shot by Burke 2:56 into the final pe­riod, but Sanderson tied it up again when he trailed in to knock Andrew Cassels' pass into an open net. 
Rice outraced the Montreal defense and deked Patrick Roy to give the Whalers the lead at 
15:23. Only 1:04 later, Damp­housse's shot on a wrong-wing rush went in off the goalpost to make it 3-3. 
B-ball 
continued from page 16 
"While this doesn't count in the record it helps us do what we want to do, and that's to grow as a team," MacLeod said. 
While Hoover was the main weapon on offense with 25 points on 9-11 shooting, 6-6 from behind the arc, junior point guard Admore White was the heart. 
In only 19 minutes, White had a superstar-sized game. He finished with 14 points on 5­5 shooting, and almost attained a triple-double with eight re­bounds and seven assists. His eight rebounds were a team high. 
"Admore seems to be a lot more confident basketball play­er," MacLeod commented on 
Garrity continued his strong play but left during the second half with an ankle injury. It isn't considered serious and he is expected to be back for the season opening game versus Akron this Saturday. 
This continued a string of bad luck for the Irish. Key veterans Pete Miller and Derek Manner are expected to be out for three and six weeks respectively with injuries. And star freshman Gary Bell has been absent from practice all season because of lingering injuries. 
"One thing we could use a lit­tle less of is injuries," MacLeod explained. "We could use some good health here." 
Some good news for the Irish is that Gary Bell has been cleared to practice and should be on the court this Wednes­day. He may see some limited time against Akron. 
his starting point guard. "Of course he's been through the wars for two years now so its good to see him calming down. I though he was very solid tonight. lie penetrated, he played aggressive defense, and he made some nice open shots early." 
Joining White and Hoover in the starting line up were Pat Garrity and freshmen Antoni Wyche and Phil Hickey. 
This was the first start for ei­ther Hickey or Wyche. Both played impressively against Giesen and have been impres­sive in practice. 
"Hickey and Wyche have made major improvements," MacLeod said. "Antoni Wyche gave us a real solid effort. He's a freshman playing the three spot (small forward) which he's never done. He primarily plays in the one or two spot." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline f~r next-day cla.<Sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Baby Sitter Mother of 2 will take care children of ages 0·4 years. 273-4933. 
RAVE RAVE RAVE NO Rave Keep a look out RAVE RAVE RAVE 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! Early Specials! 7 Days $2791 Includes 15 Meals & 6 Parties! Great Beaches/Nightlife! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! Spring Break Travel1-800-678­6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! Early Specials! 8 Days Oceanview Room With Kitchen $129! Walk To Best Bars! Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! Prices Increase 11/21 & 12/15! 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air From South Bend & Hotel From $419! Book Early! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! Spring Break Travel 1-800-678· 6386 
ILOST & FOUND I 
111!11! LOST !111!1!1 Prescription Glasses Brown/orange and black around lenses. Thin gold frames. Light weight lenses. Lost during last week of Oct-now. Call Mike@ 10782 
LOST: pair of gold hoop earrings, pair of pearl earrings, gold necklace with heart charm, and diamond ring. WHERE: Alumni Hall WHEN: Friday night-11/10 CONTACT: X-1407 with any info. 
Navy Alorna Coat 
and 
Navy J.Ashford Sweater taken from Senior Bar on Thurs., 11/9. PLEASE return-I'M FREEZING!!!! No questions asked ..Maria X4034 
LOST: CALCULUS BOOK & 
NOTEBOOK IN COPY SHOP IN 
LAFORTUNE ON MONDAY, NOV. 
13. 
RETURN TO MAIN DESK IN 
LAFORTUNE OR CALL 
233-8273 & LEAVE MESSAGE. 
Found: Gloves in NOH on 11/13 
Call x1678 
LOST: SOMEONE MISTAKENLY TOOK MY CALCULUS BOOK AND NOTEBOOK ON MONDAY, 11/13, FROM THE COPY SHOP IN LAFORTUNE. PLEASE CALL HANY 233-8273 OR TAKE TO LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK. PLEASE!!!!! 
LOST: A woman's gold 
sapphire ring with two small 
diamonds. Last seen Friday 
night at 10pm. PLEASE call 
x2446 if found. 
My little black Olympus camera (with a full roll of film, wouldn't you know) has been missing since Oct. 
31. Please call Anne @ 273-8575. Thanks! 
!lost my BLUE PULLOVER JACK­ET at Senior Bar last week. If you have seen it it would be greatly appreciated if you could return it. 
$$$$$$$$$$ Call Greg Sinnott at 4·2055. 

WANTED 
WANTED FOR XMAS GIFT: Video tapes of 1995 NO Football Season. NAME YOUR PRICE. 402-551 -8436 
LOOKING TO HIRE-LOCAL WEEKLY NEWSPAPER PAN­NYSAVER!TIMES SEEKING JUNIOR/SENIOR ACOUNTING MAJOR TO HELP ACCOUNTING DEPT. PART-TIME HOURS AVAIL­ABLE M-F. CALL GERRY MOTT 282-4419 OR FAX 282-4415 
" 
Babysitter needed. Some evenings 
or weekends. $5/hr-own car pre­
ferred. Call Bobby at 236-6170(W) 
or 272-5917(H) 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING· Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-634-0468 ext. C55842 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING· Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext. N55843 HELP!I I NEED A RIDE TO NJ FOR THANKSGIVING CALL Dave at X3684 

FOR RENT 
l 
'-HO_M_E_S_F_OR_R_E_N_T_NE_A_R_N_D___. 
232-2595 
READY NOW FOR SPRING SEMESTER 3-4 Bedroom 2 blks from campus Newly remodeled with WID OW Fridge Stove Huge Yard Full Basement and Monitored Security Sys Included $240/person or $900/mo Will help individuals needing a room. Call Mike @ 233-9609 for details 
ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. CALL 272-6194 AM OR 232-9620 PM 
& ASK FOR SANDY. 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR NO. NEXT FALL.272-6306 
FOR SALE ....................... 
Hey Ski Buffs... NO Ski Team T-shirts 
Only $10! Call today and receive your shirt folded for no extra charge! Wowl 
Potter @ 232-2955 
..................... 
85 Jimmy 4x4 Low miles great cond. $4500 273-4762 
81 Ford Mustang, T-tops, chrome wheels, rebuilt, straight-6 engine, tint. Runs very well. $1950 o.b.o. 
~all Isaac at 634-1668 

I TICKETS 
. FREDDY JONES BAND tickets still available at LaFortune Info Desk! Get some at student prices while you can, to see them ROCK Stepan on Nov. 29. 
Round trip flight from DC to Ft. Myers, FL on 12/21-1/4. $260 X2969 

PERSONAL 
0a0a0a0a0a0a0o0a0a0a0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Y!!l THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0a0o0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0a0 
Bridgey is finally 21 !!! We can't wait to celebrate with you. We lerve you. 
I'm dripping. 
I will not remember a damn thing alter tomorrow night. Just make sure I make it to Kentucky. 
I NEED A RIDE TO MINNESOTA FOR BREAK -MIKEx4335 
Happy 20th Birthday Tracey. And I do mean 20th. Just kidding. CB sports girl 
Happy Thanksgivin9!1 
Hello APATHY! FILL OUT YOUR ENTERTAIN­MENT POLLS! FROM TUESDAY'S OBSERVER! MAIL THEM TO US CAMPUS MAIL! OR PICK ONE UP FROM The Big 0 on the third floor of LaFun. TODAY! FIGHT THE APATHY! 
Morgs, you need a date who remembers. 
forget it. i'm too tired. 
....................... 
NO/SMC BALLROOM DANCE This Week: NIGHT CLUB TWO-STEP/ ADVANCED TANGO 
• 6:30 tonight at 301 Rockne * only $3/lesson or $25/ Sem. Come to our meeting! We're cool! ********************** 
ADOPTION A wonderful home awaits your baby. Happily married, financially secure couple will give much love. Expenses paid. Call Margaret or Peter at 800-529-8386. 
Marco! Colsi una rosa... 
Snyders pretzles, 79 cents. What a bargain. That is a bargain for me, especially when I don't have to pay for them 
McGrath...you're never here. But that's OK because now I have Tara all to myself. 
Happy birthday to you. Hopefully we'll be able to celebrate a little more tonight. 
-~---------------~ ~---­
The Observer • SPORTS page 11 


Yanks bid goodbye to Donnie Baseball 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associatod Pross 
NEWYOHK 
Don Mattingly's baseball ca­reer is over -at least for now. All that remains is his final an­nouneement. 
i\ person who has been in contaet with Mattingly's advis­ers said Monday the free agent first basmnan will issue a state­ment saying he won't be play­ing at th11 start of next season. lie said the announcement eould eome as early as Tues­day. 
The source, who spoke on the eondition he not be identified, eonfirnwd the account first re­ported Saturday by The New York Times. Mattingly's agent, Jim Krivacs, did not return telephone messages. 
New York Yankees manager Joe Torre said during a confer­enee eall he had no idea of the team captain's plans. 
Mattingly, who will be 35 on April 20, wants to see how he likes retirement. He hit .288 last season with just seven homers and 49 RBis in 458 at­bats, getting a $4.02 million salary in the final season of a $19.3 million, five-year con­
. tract he agreed to in April 1990, about three months be­fore severe back pain struck. lie filed for free agency follow­ing the World Series. 
Mattingly, who came up to the Yankees for good in 1983, has been at times outwardly unhappy about the team and owner George Steinbrenner. Mattingly was an i\ll-Star for six straight years through 1989, but the back pain took much of his power away and he hasn't broken 20 homers or 90 HBis this decade. 
The back pain disabled him July 25 to Sept. 11 in 1990, and he finished the season with a .256 average. 

Not so long ago, in a ga 
not so far away, 
Mark the Spark 
supported the #1 team! 
Happy 
Birthday, 
Mark! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Eric 
329 01 3073 ENGL 328 
329 02 3659 ENGL 340 
386 01 3661 ENGL 3408 ANTH 387 OJ 4435 ENGL 361 ARCH 444 03 1J95 ENGL 363 ARCH 562 01 0529 ENGL 383 ARCH 564 01 J06J ENGL 384E ARCH 566 OJ 2274 ENGL 3908 ARCH 585 OJ J058 ENGL 396A ARHI 169 OJ 03J9 ENGL 414 ARHI 451 OJ 3107 ENGL 417 ARHI 46J 01 3173 ENGL 480 ARHI 477 OJ 3176 ENGL 484 ARST 134S 01 0213 ENGL 4908 ARST 242S 01 1952 ENGL 491 ARST 246S 01 J515 ENGL 492A ARST 289S 01 J508 ENGL 496Z BA 362 01 J390 ENGL 512A BA 392 01 2182 FIN 361 
BA 392 05 4279 FIN 361 BA 483 OJ 4280 FIN 370 BA 490 01 2840 FIN 474 BA 490 02 2318 FIN 474 BIOS 303L 02 OJ6J FIN 475 BIOS 404 01 2505 FIN 475 
BIOS 41JT 03 JOlO FIN 476 CAPP 3J6 01 1462 FIN 478 CAPP 331 OJ J509 GE 410 . CAPP 33J 02 3697 GOVf 240 CAPP 361 01 J332 GOVf 301 CE 441 OJ 2687 GOVf 316F CHEM 120L 02 3003 GOVf 341 CHEM 323L 46 8346 GOVf 373 COCT 426 01 0874 GOVf 495 COCT 455 01 4357 GSC 333 COTH 401 01 3704 GSC 464 COTH 413 01 0868 HESB 434 COTH 474 OJ 0865 HIST 310A CSE 472 OJ 3524 HIST 327A DANC 144 80 9780 HIST 359 DESN 282S 01 0380 HIST 363 ECON 401 01 3717 HIST 403A 
CLASSES IHAI WILL REQrEJS AI ZrM 11l2.1 
ACCf 477 OJ 2035 AFAM 384E 01 3623 AMST 484E 01 3651 ANTH 386 OJ 366J ENGL 3198 01 31J3 ENGL 361 01 3745 ENGL 384E 01 3749 ENGL 480 OJ 3258 HIST 327A 01 3884 PHIL 244 01 108J TIIEO 237 01 0723 THEO 243T 02 0645 THEO 290C OJ 42JO 
CLQSEQ CLASSES AS QE Z;QQ r.M. IILZQl22 
ACCT 23J 01 2247 ACCT 334 OJ 0075 ACCf 380 02 1792 ACCT 383 02 4270 ACCf 383 04 4272 ACCT 450 OJ 4335 ACCT 477 01 2035 ACCf 477 02 4274 ACCT 480 02 2242 AFAM 324 01 3621 AFAM 329 01 3075 AFAM 329 02 3622 AFAM 370 01 4349 AFAM 384E 01 3623 AFAM 40J 01 3624 AFAM 413 OJ 3625 AFAM 414 01 3626 AFAM 449 OJ 3627 AFAM 454 01 3028 AMST 303E 01 3630 AMST 304G 01 3631 AMST 347H 01 3024 AMST 386H OJ 364J AMST 414 OJ 3643 AMST 46J OJ 4350 AMST 48JE 01 3650 AMST 484E 01 3651 AMST 489E OJ 3652 





Warriors, Rockets cruise 
By HOWARD ULMAN 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Hakeem Olajuwon scored 24 points, and Houston capitalized on poor foul shooting by the Boston Celtics as the Rockets won their fifth straight game, 98-93 Monday night. 
Boston made just 2-of-11 free throws in the fourth quarter and 9-of-22 for the game as its winning streak ended at two games. Houston was 28-for-33 for the ·game and 7-for-11 in the final period. 
The Rockets took the lead for good, 75-74, on Clyde Drexler's driving layup with 22 seconds left in the third quarter and led by as many as seven points in the fourth. 
Drexler scored 18 points, and Robert Horry had 16 points and 15 rebounds for the Rockets. Boston was led by Greg Minor with 21 points and Dino Radja 
with  13  points  and  17  re­ 
bounds.  
With  the  score  91-87,  

Boston's Sherman Douglas missed two free throws and Houston got the next three points on Drexler's foul shot and Olajuwon's jump hook with 
2:42 to go. 
The Rockets led 96-89 before Douglas sank a basket and was 
Lunches starting at ..... $4.25 Dirmers starting at .....$5 .95 


fouled. But he mi'ssed the free throw. Minor then hit a short jumper, closing the gap to 96­93 with 44 seconds remaining. 
Olajuwon then missed a shot. but Drexler rebounded with 24 seconds to go. Sam Cassell made a foul shot with 15 sec­onds remaining and Horry hit another with eight seconds to go. 
Boston never trailed in the third quarter until Drexler's layup with 22 seconds left capped a 7-1 run. 
Houston had outscored Boston 31-21 in the first quar­
---, 
Clilnese -American 
Restaurant & 
Cocktail Lounge 
~uthentic Szechuan, 
Mandarin & Hunan Cuisir.: 
Votcd.Be:\t 
Banquet rooms available for up to 200 Ori~ntal Restaurant' 
in Michiana by · , ·.
130 Dixie Way N., South Bend 
~~lic'lliana Nulv.'l
(neJtlto RaOOall 's Inn ) .-~ 
01 3742 HIST 473 01 39J7 PHIL 01 3743 HIST 473A 01 3918 PHIL 01 3744 HIST 495 16 3923 PHIL OJ 3745 HIST 546 OJ 3933 PHIL 01 3746 HIST 579 OJ 3937 PHIL 01 3748 liPS 4J2 01 4424 PHIL 01 3749 liPS 493 01 3148 PHYS 01 3750 liPS 551 01 4254 PHYS 01 3751 liPS 593 01 4427 PHYS 01 3756 LAW 59JA 01 0650 PSY 01 4360 LAW 591F 01 4331 PSY 01 3258 LAW 592A OJ 0035 PSY 01 3775 LAW 608 01 0188 PSY 01 3776 LAW 629C 01 4333 PSY 01 0509 LAW 631F 01 1523 PSY 01 3777 LAW 635 01 4330 PSY 01 3778 LAW 678A 01 4334 PSY 01 3782 LAW 695 01 0121 ROFR 02 0449 LAW 695 02 2315 ROFR 04 1206 LAW 695 03 1411 ROSP 01 2885 LAW 695 04 2464 ROSP 01 0604 LAW 695 05 1876 ROSP 02 4286 LAW 695 06 J087 ROSP 01 1999 LAW 695B 01 2659 soc 02 4287 MARK 371 01 2539 soc 01 2983 MARK 374 01 2138 soc 01 1386 MARK 382 01 0560 soc OJ 3800 MATH J03 01 0394 soc 02 3275 ME 342 01 3491 soc 01 3811 ME 439 01 2142 soc 01 3110 MI 387 01 4396 soc 01 4372 MI 405 01 4061 soc 01 3821 MI 423 01 4063 soc 01 3830 Ml 525 01 4074 soc 01 4383 MUS 220 01 2538 soc 01 4391 MUS 222 01 0227 THEO 01 3852 MUS 224 01 4310 THEO 01 3882 MUS 225 01 1535 THEO 01 3884 MUS 226 01 2513 THEO 01 3139 MUS 230 01 0616 THEO 01 3886 PHIL 101 04 2624 THEO 250 01 4100 261 01 0310 261 02 1343 263 OJ 4101 263 02 4102 267 01 4104 222L 02 2288 222L 06 2852 309 OJ 3595 211A 01 0049 342 02 2080 405 01 2955 431 OJ 4135 4708 01 0018 478A 01 4401 488A 01 3405 496 01 1900 372 01 252J 444 01 4149 236 01 2530 398 02 4474 399 01 2399 495 01 1981 202A 01 2930 214 01 4167 232 OJ 4J68 332 01 4169 338 OJ 4170 346 01 3034 370 01 2689 374 01 2023 401 OJ 4173 422 01 4174 424 01 3088 434 01 4171 237 01 0723 243 01 1839 243T 01 0721 243T 02 0645 262 01 0720 265 01 2807 
01 3888 PHIL !OJ 07 0957 THEO 270 OJ 3438 
ECON  416  01  3719  HIST  405A 01  3890  PHIL  225  01  3045  THEO  270  02  4205  
ECON  421  01  0827  HIST  406A 0\ 3892  PHIL  227  01  4318  THEO  281  01  3040  
ECON  450  01  4358  HIST  409A OJ  3894  PHIL  227  02  4319  THEO  283  01  4206  
ECON  455  01  3720  HIST  422A 01  3462  PHIL  239  01  4098  THEO  290  01  1248  
ENGL  JOI  OJ  3239  HIST  427A  01  3903  PHIL  239  02  4099  THEO  290B  01  4209  
ENGL  300N OJ  3733  HIST  447A 01  3907  PHIL  241  OJ  2923  THEO  290C 01  4210  
ENGL  301A 01  3735  HIST  449A  01  3910  PHIL  241  02  0702  THEO  387  01  0122  
ENGL  314  01  3738  HIST  451A  01  3912  PHIL  241  03  4397  THEO  396  01  0988  
ENGL  315B  01  3740  HIST  454  01  3025  PHIL  244  01  1081  THTR  230  58  9758  
ENGL  3J6F  OJ  3J09  HIST  454A 01  3027  PHIL  245  01  3033  THTR  272  60  9760  
ENGL  3J9B  OJ  3J13  HIST  457A 01  3914  PHIL  246  01  2342  THTR  276  62  9762  
ENGL  325  OJ  374J  HIST  467  01  3915  PHIL  247  01  3383  THTR  276  64  9764  

ter, then Boston outscored 
Houston 31-21 in the second 
for a 52-52 halftime tie. 
Drexler's layup had given the 
Rockets their biggest lead of 
the half at 39-25. Then Minor's 
14-foot jumper began a 23-8 
run that tied the game at 48­
48. Dana Barros had eight points in the surge, including two 3-pointers to extend his streak to 66 games with a 3­pointer, 13 games short of Michael Adams' NBA reeord. 
Magic 101, Warriors 95 
ORlANDO, Fla. 
Anfernee Hardaway scored 
29 points and Dennis Scott 
added 27 as the Orlando Magic 
remained unbeaten at home 
Monday night with a 101-95 
victory over the Golden State 
Warriors. 
Nick Anderson had 20 points 
and the Magic, which played 
without Horace Grant, got its 
first meaningful contribution 
off the bench from rookie for­
ward David Vaughn to improve 
its record at Orlando Arena to 
7-0. 
Chris Mullin led the Warriors 
with 23 points and Jon Barry 
scored 14 of his 19 points in the 
fourth quarter to keep Golden 
State in the game. Hony Seikaly 
had 19 points and 11 rebounds, 
but Tim Hardaway was held to 
6 on 3-for-15 shooting. 
Joe Wolf made two key bas­kets in the last three minutes and Vaughn, the Magic's first­round draft pick, delivered sea­son highs of 8 points and five rebounds in 14 minutes. 
Grant missed the game with a bruised left knee. Golden State was weakened when Latrell Sprewell, who scored 2 points, left the game late in the first quarter because of swelling in his left elbow. He didn't return. 
The Magic led 52-48 at the half and built the advantage to nine in the third quarter but never really broke away. The Warriors wiped out an 11-point deficit with a 16-4 run in the second quarter and battled back again to trail 72-68 going into the fourth period. 
Barry made all seven shots he took, including four 3-pointers that kept the Magic from pulling away. Tim Hardaway had 13 assists for the Warriors, but missed all seven of his 3­point attempts. 

::~~::.:~:.~::• From$1nd1anapo1Jis icago
4& Ch9
• 
RIT Non·Stop A1rf•re 

• 
7 Night• Hotel Accom • RIT A1rport to Hotel Tr•n•f•r• 


• College Touralamoua VIP P•rty P•chg•. FREE 
cover charge•, FREE P•rtlea, FREE food & drinka, 
EXCLUSIVE apecial ev~QV..EB..!!~Q__\!!_aavlngal 
LOWEST PRICES· BEST HOTELS • BIGGEST PARTIES 
ORGANIZE A GROU,. AND TRAVEL FREEl 
cALL COLLECiE TOURS 
,-ooA'~ 1 800-)95-4896 
Pnc.• per ~on, plu1 w .. Public Ch•r1•r~ v.. Nor1h-•1AIIilnlll (A-320) Tour Operator II FUflQU.II V~bon1 O.t•ll• WI 0piP•r1 Contract 

(We offer discounts for NO, SMC students/) 
Roodsldt Strvlct • fumpstaru • Futl Dtllvtrlts Tlrt Changing • w,.cktd Auto Tows 
Only 2 mlnuta from campust 
We have the lowest prices In town, and are always there when you need us, 24 hours a day! 
\\'c accept checks and credit cards! 
----------~---­
• BOWL PICTURE 
Ducks, Buffaloes star in Classic 
By KEVIN O'HANLON 
Associated Press 
DALLAS Will the Cotton Bowl be a hit without a Texas team? 
After landing No. 8 Colorado and No. 12 Oregon for their marquee, organizers of the Jan. 1 classic are more hopeful than optimistic. 
Without a Texas team in the 60th annual classic, it remains to be seen if enough fans of the Ducks and Buffaloes will mi­grate south to fill the 68,252 Cotton Bowl seats. 
A Texas team has played in all but nine of the 59 Cotton Bowls. And former Southwest Conference-member Arkansas, a close neighbor, played in eight of the nine non-Texas games. 
The only game between schools from outside the region pitted Clemson and Boston Col­lege in 1940. The game drew 15,000 fans. 
"We're going to have to have some sales effort here in the Dallas area in order to fill it up, but we all know what kind of football fans we have here," said John Crawford, president of the Cotton Bowl Athletic As­sociation. 
"The fact that we don't have a Texas team -I don't know if we're troubled by that. We've got higher-ranked teams than 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Basketball Officials ­Needed for lnterhall and Grad/Fac/Staff Games. Pays $8.50 a game. If you are cur­rently a Co-Ree official and would like to do other Basketball leagues, please call 1-6100 and ask for Mark. Drop-in Volleyball-Will 
take  place  on  Tuesday,  
November  21,  28  and  
December 5  at  the Joyce  

Center from 8-11. No advance sign-ups or established teams Tuesday, November 21, 1995 
"It was a good game," Con­necticut head coach Len Tsan­tiris noted. "We finished well. Our spirits are up and we've had some good practices." 
As for the loss to Notre Dame, Tsantiris believes the field conditions made a differ­ence. 
"I was looking again for a spectacular game, but it was not," he said. "The field was pretty bad and the teams couldn't do anything creative." 
Creativity may be the story this Sunday because of each team's attacking style of of­fense. Both teams possess the · capability to explode as in the first contest. The Irish defense, however, could be the main factor in controlling the tempo of the game. 
"The team mentality is very high," Manthei said. "Watch­ing our team practice, there is a different type of charisma there. We're playing for our­selves right now and that is making a big difference." 
"I like our chances because we're playing well right now," Petrucelli concluded. 
Practice will resume for the Irish on Wednesday in prepa­ration for their Big East rival. 
"We'll focus on ourselves again and not be worried about the Final Four," Petrucelli said. 
"We're on the road to doing something very good right now," Manthei added. "The game against Wisconsin was our first stamp on doing that." 

we've had a in a good while." 
The Cotton Bowl had featured the SWC champ since 1941, but with the SWC dissolving after this season, that association ended after last season's game between Southern California and Texas Tech. 
Under the new Tier 1 Bowl Alliance, the national champi­onship game was awarded to the Fiesta, Orange and Sugar bowls on a rotating basis for three years. 
Cotton Bowl 


ClassicQ 
That left the Cotton Bowl to scramble without a corporate sponsor since Mobil Corp. dropped its affiliation in March. 
Without Mobil's support, Ore­gon and Colorado each will re­ceive between $2 million and $2.5 million, depending on tick­et sales, said Charlie Fiss, media director for the Cotton Bowl. With Mobil's support, Tech and USC each got $3 mil­lion. 
Each school is responsible for selling at least 12,500 tickets at $45 each, Fiss said. 
"Oregon is planning on taking more tickets," Fiss said. "The 
are necessary. >0 ' 
Rockne Memorial Thanksgiving 1995.. Wed. Nov. 22 Building 7a.m.-7p.m.; Pool 7-9a.m.• noon-6 p.m. ; wt. room 3-6p.m. 'Thurs. Nov. 23, Closed. Fri. Nov. 24 • Building 7a.m. -7p.m.; pool 7­9a.m., noon -2p.m. ; wt. room closed. Sat, Nov. 25, Building 10a.m. -8:30p.m.; pool 1· 6p.m. wt. room closed. Sun. Nov. 26, Building lOa.m. • llp.m.; pool 7-11p.m.; wt. room noon-6-p.m.; family hours 2-5p.m. 
appy 21st Birthday 


KARL 
11/27/95 Lo.,e, MOM &DAD 
lt~~~~~~~~~ll 
~ TireUn~:~;~;;7;~;;,~:~~~ ~ ; Songs o!Wi~d, Waves, Crickets & Praise~ 
~The Untvetstty of Notre Dame Chorale&~ 
~  Chamber Orchestra  S  
~  Alexander Blachly, Director  ~  
~  8:00p.m.  S  
~  Tuesday, November 21  ~  
~  Washington Hall  ~  

L~~-;~w~~~~.J. 
Oregon people are fired up. They were selling cotton candy in the stand of the Oregon State game the other night." 
Colorado expects many of its 3,600 alumni in Texas to buy tickets. 
"Our fans, when it comes New Year's Day games, have usually gone ape," said Dave Plati, Colorado's sports infor­mation director. 
He said Colorado has sold its ticket allotment or more for all four of its New Year's bowl ap­pearances since 1989. 
Colorado has been to 19 bowl games since 1938, most re­cently defeating Notre Dame 41-24 in the 1995 Fiesta Bowl. 
The Buffs have 14 players from Texas on their roster, which also should help Texas ticket sales, Plati said. 
That list includes Mission product Koy Detmer, who in­jured his right knee in a 29-21 victory over Texas A&M. The junior quarterback later had season-ending surgery. 
Oregon is a different matter. 
The Ducks have played in 10 bowls, losing last season's Rose Bowl 38-20 to Penn State. The Ducks took 40,000 fans to Pasadena. 
However, Oregon lists just 1,200 Texas alums and no Texas players. 
"But we'll probably-sell 18,000 to 20,000 tickets," said Paul Ihander, an assistant in Oregon's sports information office. 
Goalie Amy Schwartz will make her first appearance against the Irish on Sunday. 
Soccer 
continued from page 16 
After struggling a bit towards the end of the year with a tie against Hartford and the loss to Notre Dame, Connecticut made short work of Massachusetts yesterday, defeating the Min­utemen 3-0 in the regional semifinal. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 

orlds 
'$ 2 99 701CS DX4 · 75 MHz
2' ,
8MB RAMIJ60 MB Hard_?nv: 
--· . ---------... 
··~·· 

IBM PCs Offer the Perfect Combination of Price, Convenience and Performance 
::.._ .=....:.:7 =-® 

...
• SWIMMING 
Women hold off Wildcats, men dunked despite speedy times 
By BRIDGET CASEY with a time of 24.69. Sports Writer Once again the depth of the women's squad was a key factor in the meet as 
The Irish swimmers traveled deep into the races not won by Irish swimmers Big East country this weekend for a cru­featured fast times and close finishes. cial showdown against the Wildcats of In the 200 Butterfly Lauren Relay fin­
Villanova. While the women emerged ished second in a season best time of from the closely eon­
2:06.:B, followed by freshman Anne tested battle with Iacobucci (2:10.08) and junior Karen their dual-meet Foley (2:14.11). The 1000 Freestylereeord unscathed, the also featured an Irish sweep of second men eame up short through fourth places led by senior cap­against a tough tain Joy Michnowicz (10:44.76). Junior Villanova squad. Liz Hice finished third (10:50.95) fol­
Although the meet lowed by sophomore Shelley Hotchkiss was by far the fastest Gallagher (10:50.97). of the season for the On the men's side, the overall score ttlum, it took the women all thirteen 
did not reflect the success of the team evnnts to finally put the Wildcats away as season-best times were posted in 
on the last event. the 400 Freestyle nearly every event despite the loss. reluy. Sophomore Linda Gallo com­"It was the best meet of the season bybined with juniors Amy Bostick und far," commented co-captain George 
Karen Daylor as well as senior Jesslyn Lathrop. "We swam incredibly fast all Petnrson for a first place finish that tho way around but it wasn't quiteguurantnnd a victory for the Irish. enough to keep up with them." 
The tnam was impressive throughout Despite the fast times, the men man­the entire meet seeuring first place fin­aged just one individual victory. Ron 
ishes in seven events and close races for Hoyer finished first in the 100 Freestyle second and third places in the others. (47.74), touching out Irish senior Dave Senior diver Liane Gallagher was a dou­Doherty (47.87). Doherty also finished 
ble winner. taking both the one-meter . second in a close 200 Freestyle race by and thrne metHr events by thirty points less than one second (1:45.03). each. Fellow senior Jesslyn Peterson In other results, the Irish distance won the 200 Individual Medley (2:09.30) 
contingent showcased their depth in the in addition to her contribution to the 1000 Freestyle as freshman Wes 
victorious last relay. Richardson (9:56.76) and captain Tim Junior Erin Brooks led the Irish back­Sznewjs (9:57.77) finished second and 
strokers with a victory in the 200 third respectively. The 500 Freestyle
(2:03.96) in addition to the 100 yard leg similarly featured the depth of the dis­of the 400 Medley relay in which she tance crew with freshman Scott combined with Brittany Kline, junior Zumbach (4:47.42) finishing second, fol­Lauren Heiny and sophomore sprinter lowed by Hichardson and Sznewjs in a 
Courtney South for win. South also tie for third place in 4:50.65. emerged victorious in the 50 Freestyle 

Cleveland's battle brews 
By RICH HARRIS 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 
The city is trying to keep the Cleveland Browns from moving to Baltimore even though Cleveland was not a party in pertinent contracts, an attorney for the team said today. 
"I've sat in the stands when it was below freezing with orange paint on my face," the attorney, Robert Weber, said. "But this is not about that." 
Cleveland is requesting a court order to force the NFL team to remain com­mitted to the city pending a trial. At issue is whether a lease obligates the team to play in Cleveland Stadium through 1998. 
The Browns and owner Art Modell have pledged to play in Baltimore begin­ning with the 1996 season. 
The courtroom was filled with specta­tors, including Mayor Michael White and members of his staff. Modell was not present. 
During opening arguments, George von Mehren, an attorney representing the city, said it was a simple lease case. 
"What matters here is the plain words of the lease and the sublease" he told Cuyahoga County Common Pleas Judge Kenneth Callahan. 
Weber stressed the deal between the city and Cleveland Stadium Corp. does not mention the Browns, and the deal between the corporation and the Browns does not mention the city. 
Callahan extended the city's restrain­ing order for as long as the hearing lasts. He granted a motion from the city to limit evidence that the Browns can introduce concerning contractual issues. 
He granted the team's request to limit the amount of testimony the city can produce concerning the damages it could suffer if the Browns leave. 
Von Mehren said the Browns knew they were in trouble when they signed the Oct. 27 deal with Baltimore and tried to fix it. He said they tried to amend a deal between the Browns and the Cleveland Stadium Corp. -which Modell controls -to free the team from its obligation to play in the stadium until 1998. 
"They had no right to do that and their attempt had no legal effect," von Mehren said. 
The city is relying on two rulings ­both made by low-level state court judges in New York more than 10 years ago -that said a team can be forced to play at the facility it has leased. 
Lawyers for the Browns, meanwhile, say the team is free to leave as long as it pays the rent for the remaining three years. 
The Browns were forced to sign the deal with Baltimore because White failed to deliver on his promise to reach a deal with the Browns, Weber said. 
"Deal only with me and my aides," is what White told the Browns, Weber said. But he failed to achieve the politi­cal consensus needed to make the nec­essary improvements in 64-year-old Cleveland Stadium, Weber said. 
Weber said the city could not meet the legal standard for an order that would force the team to stay in Cleveland. Even if ordered to play here through 1998, the Browns are going to leave, Weber said. 
"The only question is when," he said. 
Recycle The Observer 
9/.0TRf£ fJJJIMf£ P2(isf£9{TS: 5l !Fi[m !Forum-X]fJJS Spea!(er Series 
Monday. November 27 7:30pm KIDS Screening Discussion to follow: 
Is Society Desensitized to Violence? 
, Interlocutor: Verge Gillam, South Bend Urban League 
Tuesday. November 28 7:30pm KIDS screening Discussion to follow: 
Rape and the Notre Dame Campiis 
Interlocutor: Dr. Miguel Franco, University Counseling Center 
Wednesday. November 29 7:30pm KIDS screening Discussion to follow: 
Drugs, Alcohol and Decision Making 
Interlocutor: Kelly Landry, Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
Thursday. November 30 7:30pm KIDS screening Discussion to follow: 
Sex, Intimacy and Risks for Youth 
Interlocutor: Anne Castanguay 
• 

''A 
MASTERPIECE. 
The kind of film that pulls the ground out from under you." 
Amy Taubin, VILLAGE VOICE 
"TWO 

THUMBS UP." 
SISKEL &EBERT 






KIDS 
THE DEBUT FILM FROM LARRY CLARK 
Screenings aruf tJJiscussions wi{{ 6e fieft{ in Cushing .9l.uaitorium Tuk!ts cost $2.00for stutfents, $4.00for non-stutfents 
'I 

• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBAll •NfL 
Belles open season with win Reeves fights Giants 
The College of Science . Distinguish~d Scholar Lecture Senes Presents 
D~p:rt~e~!;Js~~~~2!~
"Control of Reproduction __ In Amphibians" ­Tuesday November 21, at 8:00 P.M. Galvin Life Sciences Auditorium Room 283 

Twenty-Two and Look at You! 
Go IRISH and Go Jeff Catalina 
Mom&Dad 
Wellington Mara, the team's co-owner, said in a statement issued during the Giants' 28-19 loss in Philadelphia Sunday that dropped them to 3-8. 
"But all you have to do is look at our record -we are behind both expansion teams -and it invokes a lot of ques­tions." 
Reeves was not Young's origi­nal choice for the Giants' job. 
But after being turned down by Dave Wannstedt, now the Chicago Bears' coach, and by Tom Coughlin, now in Jack­sonville, he turned to Reeves. That came after Reeves con­tacted the Giants and said that rumors that he wanted total control in Denver were not true. 
The reports caused a stir among Giants' players. 
(R) 
2:00, 4:20, 7:30, 9:55 
"Toy Story" · (G) 
1:30.3:45,6:15,8:15,10.10 
(PG-13) 
1:30 
(PG-13) 
1:15, 4:05. 7:00. 945 
"Ace Ventura 2" (PG-13) 
1:00.3:15,5:30.7:50. 10:05 
(R) 
1:45.4:30,7:10,9:30 
lllf1fl1!tf11fii·I;Jifllf11 
ION UNIVERSITY PARle ORI\IC 277-7336 I 
"Toy Story" (G) 
12:30.2:45.5:00. 7:15.9:30 
"Ace Ventura 2" (PG-13) 
12:00.2:15.4:30.6:45.9:00 
"Home lor the Holidays" (PG-13) 
2'00. 4:40. 7:00, 9:00 
Thursday Night Study Break All Shows $4.00 All Day With Valid Student J.D. 
RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 


ncounter 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF 
An opporlunlty, In dialogue wllh others, to deepen 
your underalandlng of yourself, your valuet, your 
relationship wllh Christ, your experience of Chrl3tlan communlly Jnd aervlce. 
FEBRUARY 2-4, 1996 
November 27 -December 1 
Before 4:00 p.m. -December 1 
By CAROLINE BLUM 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
Basketball coach Marvin Wood wants to accomplish one goal this season: to improve on last season's 6-16 record. 
As the Belles opened their '95-96 season last weekend, the team put the plan in motion with a second place finish in the Kalamazoo tournament. Also noteworthy was an All­Tournament earning perfor­mance from senior Jennie Taubenheim. 
"We played exceptional for our first performance Friday night," Wood said. "Five girls achieved double figures in points, and the team shot 47% from the floor, and 55% from the free throw line. It was a great all around game." 
Leading the scoring was Taubenheim with 13 points, fol­lowed by Marianne Banko with 12 points. Freshman Sheila Sandine debuted with 11 points, and Charlotte Albrecht and Barbara Howes both scored 10 points. 
At the end of the second half, the Belles led 34-22. Revived after half time, the team rallied with a 20 point lead early in the second half. 
"After our lead, everyone got to play," Wood said. "Fresh­men Nicole Griffin, Sheila San­dine, and Charlotte Albrecht displayed spectacular perfor­mances. The win was a total team effort. Everyone con­tributed and played really well." 
Less than 24 hours later, the Belles reconvened on the floor for the championship game against Kenyon. The Belles put up a tough fight, but did not have enough energy to win. 
"The game was closer than its 71-60 score," Wood said. "We lost just in the last 2-3 minutes. With six minutes left in the game we were only down by five." 
The statistics support Wood's thesis. The Belles were 39% on the floor compared to Kenyon's 40%. In rebounds, the team earned 39 to Kenyon's 42. 
"Kenyon is a veteran team with great quickness, which was a problem for us," Wood said. "Especially so early in the season." 
Taubenheim noted that the problems the team experienced in the second half are all work­able for improvement in the coming week. 
"The defense was a contribut­ing factor this weekend," she said. "This year we have more of a team game, which is what we need to win." 
Taubenheim was moved from forward to guard this season, which she has used to the team's advantage. Through playing back court on offense, she hopes to find the open per­son and get the whole team in­volved. 
"My All-Tournament team membership could have gone to anyone," she said. "The whole team deserved it." 
Senior guard Michelle Limb was impressed wit-h the team's ability to execute both offen­sively and defensively in the tournament. 
"Last weekend was a good way to begin the season," Limb said. "Last year we didn't win until the fllth game, which was discouraging. Our performance this weekend will enable us to. think strong and ignore the records of the past." 
"The way we played this weekend we can beat anyone," Taubenheim said. "We need to maintain the confidence." 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Dan Reeves, in a power struggle with the New York Gi­ants' front office, may not get the chance to serve out the final two years of his contract that he says he's willing to serve. 
Reeves told the New York Daily News in Sunday's editions that under current circum­stances, he would leave after coaching the last two years of the five-year deal he signed in 1993 if he wasn't given more power over personnel. The same kind of ultimatum led to his dismissal in Denver after the 1992 season. 
Reeves, who has control over player cuts and some free agents, wants more control over the draft, currently the province of general manager George Young. But Young is about to sign a two-year con­tract extension. 
"He and George are both at the top of their·professions," 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 1 03 Hesburgh Library 
-· 
631-7800 COST: $25.00 ffi IIIIIIIIIIIII!Illiiii!!JI' r, , ...!llllllrnmnunno rn 

FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 
DILBERT 
1"\Y CONSULTING PARTNER, 8 :II RATBERT, WILL DEMON-~ ..i STRATE. HOW TO INFORM ; Et'\PLOYEES THfo.T T~EIR ~ JOBS WILL BE OUTSOURCE.D. ~ 
\~ ~/l () 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Guardian of the comics
1 Potassium -­32 #4 of the Bruins 
(astringent) 33 Baseball's
5 Ruse 
Slaughter9 Revue segment 
34 River ducks 13 Period of 
36 Ogler penitence 
38 Curvy letters 14 1992 Literature 
41 Bad mood
Nobelist­
42 Vegas casino 
Walcott 44Jai-­
1&Anent 46 Baseball club 
11 New Year's V.I.P.'s: Abbr. 
figure 47 Literary
19 Capital ofTogo 
sobriquet20 Sinatra's ''I'm 
51 Important-toWant periodsYou" 52 Room, to 21 "Israel in the Ricardo World" author 
53 Max Ernst, Man 23 Evict 
Ray, Hans Arp et 26 Merit al. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Get the latest scoop on facility hours, game delays and up­coming events such as aerobic sign-ups, roster deadlines and 

... .. class off~rings.



J!!Jj ;' '; ! 
631-6100 
57 Advanced exams &1 Licorice or 
sassafras &2 Balzac character 65 Cash for cards &&Argument 67 Sandusky's lake &a -off (miffed) &9 Sail support 10 Machine-gun bunker 
DOWN 
1 "A" in radio lingo 2 Page (through) 3 "Do--others 
4 Volcanic peak in Ore. s T.E.D. opponent 6 Lease 1 Met solo 
a "The --ofthe Wedding" (McCullers novel) 
9Muzzles 10 Door handle 11 "The Joy of 
Cooking" author Rombauer 12 High schooler 15 Skewered meal 18 Escape capture by 22ln-­(stagnant) 24 Since, New Year's Eve-style 
r----------------------------~­

HAPI'Y 81RTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A new reserve helps you win greater respect at work. Others see you as someone who possesses a special inner strength. A personnel or scheduling change could work to your advantage next spring. Seek the cooperation of your peers and subordinates. June of '96 will find you poised to make a romantic com­mitment. Give grown-up offspring plenty of notice if planning to remarry. A windfall or legacy could change your entire life. 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: actress Goldie Hawn, baseball slugger Ken Griffey Jr., ballerina Natalia Makarova. New 
BILL WATTERSON 
Yorker editor Tina Brown. ARIES (March 21-April 19): Look to a more experienced individ­
l GCi'tif>. G£1 lv\'{ 
ual for advice and inspiration. Tie
OWN 'St.C.R£\P--1<.'{. 
up any loose ends related to an old project before starting a new one.
\ 
You have fewer limitations than you think. Be creative!
" 
i TAURUS (April 20-May 20): An excellent day to enjoy some of your job's fringe benefits. A phone call or letter could change the direc­tion of your career. Make new 
i ~ 
!i ~ 
I c 
investments. GEMINI (May 21-June 20): What looks like a grand opportunity 
l 
to fill your wallet could empty it instead. Do not press your luck. Domestic chores should come 
l ~ 
before pleasure. Get busy! CANCER (June 21-July 22): Opposing elemenl~ could make this 
'llllilw.ll·ll 
SCOTT ADAMS 
day a veritable tug-of-war. Let part­ner take the lead while you adopt a wait-and-see approach. Romance is best postponed. Stay home tonight and read a good book. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Pouring extra effort into your work could put you over the top. Time-honored virtues once again prove their worth. 

•MENU Notre Dame 
NORTH Grilled Ham Steak Rice Valencienne Vegetable Ratatouille 
Saint Macys 
Chicken Piccata Vegetable Kabobs Herb Browned Potatoes 

Z?~~~ 
/~ ~}]_•h C).. ~ ......_f ~ 

,._ 
Refuse to be taken in hy a clever manipulator. Spend more time on your own. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You benefit from favorable inOuences. Set a good example by putting your best foot forward. News from those· at a distance keeps you on your toe,. You arc capable of dealing with any situation. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be wary of people who talk big but have little to offer. Their empty promises could lead you far afield. Go ahead with a household project. Family members will lend a helping hand if asked nicely. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Postpone an announcement if you have any doubts. hivacy will help you collect your thoughts. Proceed along customary lines when han­dling other people's money. Show good judgment. 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2 I): Romance enjoys beneficial influences. Refrain from making impulsive changes in your lifestyle. Exaggerating or boasting could sad­dle you with new and unwanted problems. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An inspired idea comes to you from out of the blue. Haste could cause unwise decisions. Slow down. Love could appear in an unusual guise. Follow the dictates of your generous heart. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Stick to the straight and narrow. Traf­fic and highway conditions require extra caution. Some exciting devel­opments could brighten your outlook. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Look into moving to better quarters or buying your own home. Those who wield authority wisely will make valuable new friends. Some good financial news is featured this afternoon. 
SOUTH Mushroom Quiche Mexican Rice Spanish Vegetable Medley 

25 Couples  43 Indian wear  55 Show fondness  
27 Evaporate  45Nomehome  56 Mlle.'s neighbor  
28 Boxing locale  48 Hinged  58 Suffix with billion  
29 Silk-making  fasteners  59 Maxwell of 007  
region  49 Regard highly  films  
30 Jumpy Milne  50 Chief JrJstice  60 Undo a dele  
character  Earl  63 French  
31 Offensively vile  53 "Fudge!"  connections?  
32 Brit. lexicon  54 Top-drawer  64 Received  
35 Avenues: Abbr.  

37 Echoed 
Get answers to any three clues 
39 Yale Bowl hosts 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
40 Capital of 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
Yemen 
• OF INTEREST 
"The Magnificent Ambersons" will be playing tonight in the Theatre at the Snite at 7 p.m. The cost is two dollars. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
- 
SPORTS  
page 16  Tuesday, November 21, 1995  

• CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners achieve goals with NCAA display 
By MEGAN McGRATH SportS Writer 
This season, the Notre Dame men's cross country team had just a few goals: compete in the NCAA meet, place in the top 10 and possibly crack the top five. 
For the 13th-ranked Fighting Irish, 
two out of three isn't bad, as the harriers finished eighth at the NCAA men's Division I Cross Country Championship in Ames, Iowa yesterday. 
The Irish tallied 237 points to fin­ish tied with Big East rival Providence. Arkansas won the meet with 100 points. 
"We ran very well and are very pleased with our performance," head coach Joe Piane said. "But I think that we could have done even better than that, and I think the fellows would say the same.' 
As has been the case for much of the season, the fel­lows were lead by senior Derek Seiling. Seiling's time of 31:31 was 27th overall and 19th among runners competing in the team competition, good enough for All-American honors. 
Junior Matt Althoff was second for Notre Dame, with his 32:16 63rd overall. Senior Joe Dunlop placed 71st and freshman Antonio Arce took 78th place. 
"I was especially impressed with the performances of Matt Althoff and Antonio Arce," Piane said. "Arce was among the top five or six freshman in the entire meet. They both ran great races." 
Piane was also impressed by senior Derek Martisus. Martisus was fifth among the Irish with a 32:35 finish in 83rd place. "Derek ran significantly better for us here than at the district meet," Piane said. 
Sophomore Jason Rexing finished out the Irish scor­ers, placing 133rd overall. 
While Piane felt the Irish could have placed higher. their strong showing gives him a lot of hope for next year. 
"I really think things look good for us in the future," Piane said. "We're only losing Derek Martisus, every one else has another year." 
Seiling, an architecture major, has a fifth year of eli­gibility, as does Dunlop. 
Three Big East teams finished in the top ten. as Georgetown claimed sixth place. Wisconsin. who won last week's district meet, finished a surprisingly low 14th overall. 
"Arkansas was really a surprise winner," Piane said. "I think Wisconsin or Oklahoma State were the favorites heading in." The Cowboys took third, behind Northern Arizona. Colorado and Stanford rounded out the top five. 
Providence won the women's championship. 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 




Third time's a charm 
Notre Dame hosts UConn this weekend in NCM's 
By JOE VILLINSKI Assistant Spons Editor 
Much like many Notre Dame students this upcoming Thanksgiving weekend, the women's soccer team will be seeing a familiar face. 
It may not be their immedi­ate relatives. but the Irish have probably visited more with Connecticut this year than a typical family. 
This Sunday, the Huskies re­turn to Alumni Field for the second time this season in the regional final. The game will determine who gets a ticket to the Final Four in Chapel Hill, and will be the rubber match between the teams after they split their first two meetings. 
"I don't think we've ever done this before," Irish coach Chris Petrucelli said. "It's rare when we play a team twice." 
The Irish dropped their first meeting of the year to the Huskies 5-4 in spectacular duel in overtime. In that game, Notre Dame came back three times to tie the score, but could never pull ahead. 
"I think scoring the first goal 
will  be  important  in  this  
game," Pe trucelli adde d.  
It  was  important  in  the  

championship game of the Big 
East tournament at Seton Hall. The Irish prevailed 1-0 when Amy Van Laecke scored the game-winner within the first twenty minutes. A combina­tion of timely saves by goalie Jen Renola and a superior defensive effort kept the Huskies off the scoreboard. 
"We did a much better job with team defense in that game," Petrucelli commented. "We also were able to stop them from coming out of the back." 
"It gives us a little more leverage coming in with the last win," midfielder Holly Manthei said. "We've grown a lot in our last eight-to-ten games and they (Connecticut) haven't changed much." 
see SOCCER I page 12 
• BASKETBAll 

Athletes in Action assailed by Big East-Bound Irish squad 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assistant Spons Editor 
Coming off a disappointing per­formance against Giesen, Germany on Nov. 9, the Notre Dame men's basketball team des­perately needed a boost of con­fidence before entering their first season in the Big East. Thank God Athletes in Action were in town. 
The 86-70 victory over the Athletes on Monday evening didn't just wash the bad taste out of the Irish's mouth, but also .made them look like Big East contenders. Well almost. 
The Irish defense was strong from the outset, but aside from the dead-eye shooting of Ryan Hoover, 
-

the ofl'ense was cold. 
"Overall this was a solid effort for us from an intensity stand­point," Irish head coach John MacLeod explained. "We had some real fine defensive play, but at points we're still struggling with the offense, especially with an inability to set screens. He had open opportunities and we didn't take them." 
Behind nine points from Hoover the Irish took an early 10-6 lead, but then they went cold. Notre Dame failed to score another point until Matt Gotsch powered one in from the post. There was a six minute interval between baskets. 
Yet the defense held strong, and the Irish never gave up the lead 
Volleyball 
NCAA Tournament Action TBA 
Women's Soccer 
vs. Connecticut November 26, 1 :00 p.m. 
Hockey 
vs. Lake Superior November 24 & 25, 7:00p.m. 

during this drought. They eventu­ally went on to lead 38-22 by half­time. 
"We had a very sluggish start," MacLeod said. "Once we got rolling, the last five, six minutes of the first half. we began to settle down offensively and get some easy looks at the basket." 
Entering the second half the Irish continued strong, and built a 30 point lead with eight minutes to go. The Athletes made a strong run behind Mark Pack. All of Pack's 21 points came from the land of threes. Yet, the 15 point run wasn't enough as the Irish 
The Observer/Rob Finch
held on. 
Starting point guard Admore White nearly registered a triple­double in Notre Dame's thrashing of Athletes in Action. 
see B-BALL I page 1 0 
• Belles open season with a win Basketball 
see page 14 
at Indiana November 28, 7:30p.m. 
SMC Sports 
• Irish swimming results 
Basketball at Kalamazoo College November 25 see page 13 
• Cotton Bowl pairings 
see page 12 







