
Friday, April21, 1995 • Vol. XXVI No. 125 THE I~DEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Benefactor 
J.P. Grace dead at 81 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
.I. Peter Grace. a lifelong benefactor and trustee of the University, died Wednesday. He was 81. 
Grace, who died at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York, had battled bone cancer since 1989. The cancer later spread to his lungs. 
"The Grace family has had a long and close association with Notre Dame, which has bene­fited from its generosity and wisdom over the years," Father Edward Malloy, president of the University, said. "(Grace's] death reminds us of the rela­tionship and of how thankful we are for the more than three decades of service he rendered as a trustee." 
Grace, former chairman and chief executive officer of W.R. Grace and Co., a company founded by his grandfather, was the recipient or the 1967 Laetare Medal, the University's highest honor. He also re­ceived an honorary degree from Notre Dame in 1960. 
Grace oversaw the chemical company's operations for 47 years. lie stepped down from day-to-day duties in 1992 but remained chairman until he was ousted last month. 
On March 17. he agreed un­der pressure from sharehold­ers to relinquish his position as chairman. lie had agreed to leave the board at its annual meeting May 10. 
Among Grace's benefactions to the University are Grace llall, a men's residence hall constructed in 1969. and the ()'llara-Grace Graduate Resi­dences, constructed in 1976. 
lie also won fame for leading the Grace Commission. a two­year Heagan administration ef­fort to root out government waste. 
The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 

. The Observer/Dane Kramer The Indiana Department of Transportation is rebuilding Exit 77 of the Indiana Toll Road. The project involves the rebuilding of an interchange­and will close the Notre Dame exit until May 13. 

Construction closes Exit 77 
Project may cause major headaches as students prepare to head home· 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 

Notre Dame and Saint Mary's parents may find a sur­prise waiting for them on the Indiana Toll Road as they arrive to pick up their sons and daughters at the semes­ter's end. 
A sign that reads "Exit 77 closed." 
The Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) closed down the exit April 18 for re­pairs and reconstruction. The current overpass at the exit will be demolished, and a new T -shaped intersection will be constructed at U.S. 33, minus the overpass. 
Crews are currently working around the clock to complete the project. Plans call for the exit to remain closed until May 13, one day after finals end for both student bodies. 
The closing may cause delays for parents and stu­dents attempting to arrive at or depart from the two cam­puses. At the very least, the shut down will hamper efforts to reach Notre Dame and Saint Mary's from the Toll Road. 
INDOT's Monica Peterson said if students or parents ex­perience any delays, they should be minimal. "We're purposely reopening the exit (on May 13) to try to avoid problems. We planned our construction with students in mind." Peterson expects traf­
see CLOSING I page 4 

'Ill!' 
. ' ·1,':.:.!:' I, 




Women bridging racial gaps Marijuana debate lands 
By MARTHA MOYLAN News Writer 
Educated African-American women have a responsibility to speak for all African-American women and men in America today, according to Diana L. Hayes last night in her lecture entitled "Hagar's Daughters: Womanist Ways of Being in the World." 
llayes, a Professor of Theol­ogy at Georgetown University, was the speaker for Saint Mary's annual Madeleva Lec­ture in Spirituality, sponsored by The Center for Spirituality of Saint Mary's College. 
The challenge of the African­American woman's existence is intensified by the double op­pression of being black and a woman, according to Hayes. She talked about her own diffi­culties with discrimination, as well as being rejected by other blaek people for being different. 
"I am black, female, Catholic, and a theologian," something that is considered an oxymoron by most, said Hayes. Hayes was the first African-American woman to earn the Doctor of Sacred Theology degree at the Catholic University of Louvain, Belgium. 
These qualifications have shown Hayes how to embrace that which makes her different and unique. 
Hayes calls for other African­American women to use their strengths in a pro-community fashion, not excluding other cul­tures. Hayes expressed that African-American women need to recognize their sisterhood to white women, as well as, their relation to African-American men. 
The misunderstanding of the sisterhood between African­American and White women dates back to the Old Testa­ment, according to Hayes. 
Sarah, the wife of Abraham. and the Black slave Hagar were both victims of a male domi­nated society. Sarah did not recognize that Hagar and she were in common positions, so she had her husband leave Ha­gar in the desert. 
There is a strong need for African-American women to "reclaim their voices" and to "rebuild their communities and the lives of the people within them," said Hayes. 
Hayes describes African­American women of this strong nature as "womanist." All women have motherly instincts, according to Hayes. This essence of motherhood is "criti­cal to womanist ways." These woman are committed to the survival of themselves and of their culture. 
Ultimately Hayes views, "Black women as beacons of hope and bearers of culture." 
Grace, Stanford in finals 
By JAMIE HEISLER News Writer 

The Iceberg Debates, which began March 22, are nearing completion after almost a month of debates. The semifi­nals held last night and Wednesday night narrowed the competitors to the debating teams from Stanford and Grace. 
Arguing the topic RESOLVED: Marijuana should be legalized, Stanford competed against Howard, and Grace debated first ranked Keenan. The debates, originally scheduled for Thursday, April 6, were postponed twice due to techni­cal difficulties, and then had to be held on separate nights for organizational reasons. 
The postponement of the de­bates had both positive and negative consequences accord­ing to Stanford debater Chris Regan. "It gave us more time to prepare, which was a posi­tive effect, but it's frustrating when you're prepared to de­bate," he said. 
The Grace-Keenan debate, held Wednesday night, featured Keenan arguing the affirmative and Grace arguing the nega­tive. Grace was led by debaters George Holloway and Mike Molnar who focused on the fact that marijuana is a "gateway" drug to other harder drugs and that even if marijuana use was legalized, there would still be an illegal market among under­age drinkers. 
This approach by the Grace debaters was favored by the judges who voted Grace the winner 3-0. "Both sides were 
see ICEBERG/ page 8 
....-------------------------------­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


HeyND, 

DART 

this! 
According to Notre Dame, it's high time I fig­ured out what to do with my life. They've given me a DART book and told me to find courses that will prepare me for a reward­ing career. But it seems to me that none of the classes offered will do this. 
There is a rabbitry in the Rockies of Colorado called, appropriately enough, "Rocky Mountain Rabbits." A Rabbit Lady runs the place-and I have often yearned to take over her business when she retires. Then, like her, I could wear stiff over­alls and have a rabbit tattooed on my bicep. I could walk around covered in hay, a sprig of alfalfa between my teeth, my face leathery and emotionless, constructing rabbit cages with my bare hands, diagnosing rabbit dis­eases, and baking rabbit pellets. 
I could raise all different sorts of rabbits, 
including inordinately large ones that make 
onlookers wonder. "Good God! How did that 
thing get through the opening in the cage?" 
When people ask me how to cure their rabbit, 
I could tell them, earnestly, "Ma'am, what 
that rabbit needs is some alfalfa. He's got 
that hungry look in his eye." I would live 
amidst a forest at the top of a mountain, and 
little children would point up the road and 
scream, "Don't go up that way! The crazy 
Rabbit Lady lives up there! She'll make you 
stick your hand in the cage of that huge rab­
bit!" However, I don't think ND offers any 
courses in hutch making, or even pellet-bak­
ing. Not for undergraduates, anyway. · 
Maybe, instead of a rabbit lady, I could just 
be a crusader, going around fighting for truth 
and justice and decent oranges in the dining 
hall. On my first crusade I would seek to 
eliminate YM and Seventeen magazines. I've 
found that they are uncontrollable forces­
when they are in the room, you can do noth­
ing but read them. They are inexorable vor­
texes of nothingness into which innocent peo­
ple are sucked whenever they enter the maga­
zines' domain. For some reason, finding out 
just how to tell if "he" likes you and taking the 
"Is Pink My Color?" quiz takes priority of all 
other aspects of intelligent people's lives when 
these insidious magazines are around. This is 
sick, and this is wrong. 
On my next crusade I would try to eliminate 
the beast that lives in my sink. It smells as if 
a funky, frothy, garlic-chewing hamster 
crawled down my sink and died. Whenever I 
approach my sink, I start to laugh, because 
how could anything BE that foul? I've tried 
every method I could think to get rid of the 
stench. I'm thinking of summoning a priest to 
do an exorcism-this reek is not of this world. 
After exorcising the beast, I will do some­
thing about the taunting perforations in my 
Spanish lab manual. The makers of this man­
na!, it seems, have put perforations in this 
book for decoration only. When I try to rip 
out the workbook pages, I end up with a 
ragged, lacerated remnant of what the page 
once was. I bet the makers of this manual are 
laughing somewhere, as the pansy perfora­
tions stare back at me, taunting me. 
Workbook publishers of the world: make per­
forations like you mean it or don't make them 
at all! 
So it seems ND does not offer many courses 
which prepare me for my chosen path. So, I 
think I'll major in English. That way I'd be 
qualified to start a monkey ranch in Bolivia ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Accent  
Kristi Kolski  Andrea Jordan  
Deborah Schultz  Jackie Moser  
Sports  Production  
Andy Cabiness  Belle Bautista  
Graphics  David Diaz  
Robert Bollman  Lab Tech  
Dane Kramer  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Friday, April 21, 1995
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
UAW blasts Kerkorian-Iacocca Chrysler bid 
DETROIT Kirk Kerkorian's takeover bid for 

Voting with their feet 
Chrysler Corp. took a hit when the power­
·;:;The initial investor euphoria over multibillionaire Kirk Kerkorian's $22.8 
ful investment banking firm Bear Stearns 
billion, $55-a·share takeover proposal to Chrysler Corp. has faded. 
& Co. said it won't work with the Las 
Doubts are growing over whether he can line up the financing. 
Vegas billionaire on the deal. Meanwhile, the automaker's national dealer's councils 
Date St.~ck price Volume, millions of shares 
urged Chrysler to fend off Kerkorian's 
4-10 39.125 1.80
Tracinda Corp., saying a change in owner­
4-11 39.25 1.64
ship would hurt their business. The 
4-12 48.75 34.01 {day the takeover was announced)
United Auto Workers also criticized the proposed $22.8 billion deal Wednesday, 4-13 47.875 12.32 describing it as "a classic example of the 4-14 good friday, markets closed 'get-it-while-you-can' mentality that 4·17 48 5.13 wrecked so many American corporations 4-18 46.75 4.00 in the 1980s." Bear Stearns told Chrysler 4-19 46,25 6.03 chairman Robert Eaton it would not help 4-20 44.50 6.88 Kerkorian with the deal. "Chrysler and its Chrysler Financial Corp. subsidiary have Source: New York Stock Exchange AP had a good working relationship with 

spokesman Michael Claes played down Bear Stearns'Bear Stearns and we are pleased that they have decided decision. "We have never said that they have been
not to be involved with Tracinda's actions against 
retained in a formal capacity as an adviser to us," heChrysler," the automaker said late Wednesday. Last said. Bear Stearns apparently wants to protect its lucra­week, an executive with Chrysler's financial arm sent tive business of underwriting Chrysler bond sales. TheBear Stearns a letter objecting to the firm's affiliation 
Detroit News reported that the company has earned
with Kerkorian. It had been expected that the firm would more than $10.5 million managing nearly $4 billion in
help lead Kerkorian's takeover effort. Tracinda 
Chrysler bond sales since 1990. 
Clinton shows alternatives to GOP Study finds yo-yo dieting safe 
DES MOINES, Iowa ATlANTA 
President Clinton said Thursday he 
A 30-year study confirms that dieters don't increase is confident his political standing will their health risks by repeatedly losing weight only to gain grow as he offers "clear alternatives" it back, researchers say. The study backs the report last to the eight Republican presidential October of a panel of experts at the National Institute of candidates who want his job. Clinton Health, which reviewed 43 studies and concluded that it's said he's looking forward to launching more dangerous to be overweight than to worry about his re-election campaign, though he health risks from so-called yo-yo dieting. Those studies, said it isn't yet time to begin. "I am many of which the panel said were flawed, ranged in looking forward to it beginning, but I length from a few weeks to about 20 years. Past don't want it to begin prematurely," research indicated that yo-yo, or chronic, dieting may Clinton said. "Most of this country will be hurt if we have disrupt metabolism, increase body fat and lead to heart too much presidential politics and too little attention to problems and other health risks. But the new study, the American people in 1995." Clinton this week assert­from the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Human ed his "relevance" in setting the nation's political agenda Nutrition Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, and he said the field of Republican candidates will aid in found that an overall weight gain increased risks for that task. Eight Republicans have announced their candi­heart disease and diabetes. Fluctuations in weight over dacies, and a ninth is expected in May. "In some ways it time did not. "We didn't find any evidence for that," said makes it easier." Clinton said. "There will be clear alter­Joel Grinker, author of the study and an obesity specialist natives and in the appropriate way they all will now have with the Tufts center and the University of Michigan to be more accountable for the decisions they've made, School of Public Health. "This adds to the evidence that and whether they were right or wrong in the positions it is weight gain and obesity that raise health risks," they've taken in the last two years and even before." rather than chronic dieting, said Dr. Susan Yanovski. 
Child's memory convicts her father Planned parenthood seizes assets 
PHOENIX DALLAS 
For 29 years, Lyle Eugene Keidel got away with mur­Officers seized furniture, computers and other office 
der. But his daughter never forgot the night when, at age equipment from Operation Rescue's new headquarters 
5, she saw her father hit her mother, then heard him Wednesday under a court order obtained by Planned 
burying her in their back yard. Jurors who convicted Parenthood of Houston and Southeast Texas to satisfy a 
Keidel of murder this week said they were convinced by court judgment. Officials of Planned Parenthood's 
the riveting story that a tearful Lori Romaneck recounted Houston office watched as movers, overseen by Constable 
without the aid of hypnosis or psychoanalysis. Rick Richardson, took everything of value inside 
Romaneck, 34, said she kept her secret from Sept. 17, LifeChoices Inc., the national headquarters of Operation 
1966, until two years ago because she was afraid of her Rescue. "We will do everything possible to find and take 
father. She testified at her father's trial that she wrote a their assets," said Planned Parenthood official Judy 
letter to police because she couldn't live with the memory Reiner. "We've made that clear from the day we won." 
any longer. "In spite of my fears, I decided that I'd Planned Parenthood was awarded $1 million in punitive 
rather be dead than to keep the secret," she said. The damages from Dallas-based Operation Rescue and 
fact that Romaneck's story wasn't repressed, recovered Houston-based Rescue America over the anti-abortion 
years later only as the result of some new trauma, proba­groups' protests during the 1992 Republican National 
bly made her a more credible witness than those who Convention. A jury found that they and two other groups 
claim to remember long-buried memories, one lawyer conspired to hinder business at Planned Parenthood and 
said. "I don't think the general public finds 'repressed nine other clinics during the GOP convention. The 
memories' credible," said Tom Hoopes. LifeChoices office opened two weeks ago. 

'Friday, April 21 


The Accu-Weather® forecast for noon, Friday, April 21. 
30s Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1995 Accu-Weather, Inc. 
Prss&Uf8 

H L EB&'SJrrrJ 0~ § i) !:J. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Auociltled PreBII 
AUanta 81 64 Dallas 83 61 New Orleans 82 69 Baltimore 70 57 Denver 39 29 New York 58 50 Boston 51 43 Los Angeles 75 54 Philadelphia 65 52 Chicago 65 42 Miami 86 74 Phoenix 75 53 Columbus 70 53 Minneapolis 49 35 St. Louis 76 52 
L__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ -------­
-~------­

Friday, April 21, 1995 
The Observer • NEWS page3 
Libyan flight violates UN Moral, political issues debated 
By KELLY MOORE Church realized it would be in
international air sanctions Another conflict emerged in 
Associated Press 
TRIPOLI, Libya 

Thousands of people cele­brated on the streets of Tripoli overnight after Libya flew Mus­lim pilgrims to Saudi Arabia in violation of U.N. sanctions against international air travel. 
Moammar Gadhafi decided to ignore the ban on Libyan flights even though neighboring Egypt succeeded Wednesday in con­vincing the United Nations to give a special waiver for this year's annual pilgrimage to Mecca, Islam's holiest site. The waiver stipulated the flights must be on Egyptian planes. 
Neither Egypt, which allowed two illogal Libyan flights across its territory, nor Saudi Arabia, which rofueled the jets for de­parture, made any move to stop them. It would have been politically difficult for either nation to do so without a back­lash from their Muslim popula­tions. 
"The Libyan people have realized their will, and the Libyan pilgrims were able to reach the House of God," said Mohammed Allafi, Libya's gen­eral consul in Jiddah, Saudi Arabia, where the flights land­ed. 
The sanctions ban air traffic in and out of Libya, limit diplo­matic contacts and prohibit weapons sales. They were im­posed in April 1992 to try to force Gadhafi to turn over two suspects in the 1988 bombing of an Pan Am jet over Locker­hie, Scotland, which killed 270 people. 
News Writer 
Focusing on the conflicts and diversity in the American Church, Gene Burns, a profes­sor in the Department of Sociol­ogy at Princeton University, spoke yesterday on the "Axes of Conflict in American Catholi­cism". 
Scott Appleby, associate pro­fessor of history and Director of the Center for American Catholicism here at Notre Dame, summarized the lecture saying that Burns "was arguing that the Catholic social doctrine and the teaching on church­state relations to the political economy, developed indepen­dently from the Catholic doc­trine on morals in the late 19th century and 20th century." 
According to Burns, "The 





255-7777 
9 MONTH LEASES FOR STUDENTS 3 MONTH SUMMER LEASES 
• 
Pool & Jacuzzi ·Club House 

• 
Washer/Dryer 

• 
Microwaves 

• 
Intruder Alarms 


I ..ocat.ed in the Heart of' 
~-_Everything! 

Indiana Toil Road 
Edison Rd. 
McKinley Jefferson Blvd. 
Lincolnway East 





REMINGTON COURT 
. 

Session I-May 18 to June 23 Session II -June 26 to August 3 
There are some good reasons to take classes at Holy Cross College this summer. Perhaps you could benefit from one or both of our summer sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. Or maybe our affordable summer tuition rate of $140 per credit hour sounds appealing. 
Whatever the reason, Holy Cross College summer sessions can offer you the opportunity to use your time more productively during the upcoming summer break. You can take advantage of our exceptionally small classes, dedicated and caring faculty and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. And, ofcourse, credit earned is transferrable. 
So why not write or call today for more information about Holy Cross College? Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the 1995 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. 
* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
Office of Admissions P.O.Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 
(219) 233-6813, ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 
©1995 

a better position if they accept political liberalism, but not eco­nomic liberalism or liberal morality." 
Burns argued that "the impli­cations for the future course of Catholicism was that the prob­lematic boundary between the 'moral' and the 'political,"' a boundary the hierarchy attempts to maintain, ultimate­ly threatens to make moral issues a higher priority than faith issues. 
Bishops claim that issues such as abortion and contra­ception are moral issues, not political ones. Both these issues appear to have a higher priority than faith issues in America because many Americans regard them as political issues. 
the late 1960's regarding gen­der issues within the Church. According to Burns, after Vati­can II , the American sisters "quickly challenged Rome's control of their daily lives and developed a most decentraliz­ing interpretation of the mean­ing of Vatican II." 
He said, "a strong feminist critique of the patriarchy of the Church emerged as the sisters began talking about how they should adapt to modern life." 
The Church accepts political liberalism in American society, according to Burns, but "the Council required that govern­ments not violate what the Catholic Church considered di­vine, objective Jaw." The Church does not accept liberal morality regarding many sex and gender issues. 


GQLF 
Notre Datne 
STUDENT RATES WEEKDAYS$5 WEEKENDS$6 SPRING PASS $30 
Pro Shop Hours of Operation 
Weekdays 6:30 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 
Weekends 6:00 a.m.-4:00 p.m. 
Tee Times Available Friday & Weekends 
631-6425 
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 21, 1995 

office suggest students and par­ents use any of a number alter­nates to alleviate congestion. 
If you are traveling towards 

for 
BACCALAu-REA'TE lVIASS and SENIOR LAST VISIT 
Tuesday, April25 and Wednesday, April26 4:00pm IN THE BASILICA 

Being astudent is hard. So we've made buying aMacintosh$ easy. So easy, in fact, that the prices on Macintosh personal 
1Wo thingsyo~ carr afford to miss. computers are now even lower than their already low student prices. Unfortunately, they won't stay this low forever. So you need to forget about how hard your life is for a minute and start thinking about how easy it will bewith aMacintosh.The comput­er that gives you the power any 
8MB RAM/350MB hard drive, CD-ROM drive, 
15" color dispfay, keyboard, mouse andall the soft­student can use. The power to be ware you're likely to need. 
RIGHT NOW AT YOUR CAMPUS RESELLER. 
your bese Appletl ,_ 
Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 CCMB •631-7477 M-F9am-Spm 

Product prices, product availability and sales taxes may vary. ©1995 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, Macintosh Peforma, PowerBook and "The power to beyour best" are registered trademarks ofApple Computer, Inc. Power Macintosh andMac are trademarks ofApple OJmputer, Inc. All Apple'products are designed to be accessible to individuals with disability. 7b learn nwre (US. only), call 800-776-2333 or rDD 800-833-6223. 
Friday, April 21, 1995 The Observer • NEWS 
• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 




Saint Mary's offers 'virtual' AnTostal 
By BECKY MAYERNIK 
No:ws Writer 
The Saint Mary's Student Ac­tivities Board (SAB) has many events planned for AnTostal, according to chairperson Candy Novak. 
Next Wednesday night at 9 
p.m. 'Rocky Horror Picture Show' will be held on the Saint Mary's campus outside next to Madaleva Hall, stated SAB advi­sor Marlene Johnson. "We are also trying to plan a possible bonfire for the night," accord­ing to Novak. 
Next Thursday, the AnTostal events will begin at Saint Mary's at 3 p.m. with 'Alpha Experience,' a virtual reality event which can be accessed until 9 p.m. and will be held on either the library green or in the LeMans lobby. 
At 4 p.m. various events such as tye-dye, tattoos, and many dorm games will be held on the library green, said Novak. Jell­0 pits will open at this time, and a D.J. will also be on hand. 
The D.J. will play throughout the picnic which is scheduled to be held on the green from 4:30­6p.m. 
'The Dating Game' will also be held on the library green at 7 p.m. "We're really excited about this, and students can bring their own blanket and re­lax outside for the show," stat­ed Novak. 
Also beginning at 7 p.m. (and continuing until 11 p.m.) is the Holy Cross Block Party. Shady Elaine, Big Earl, and Little Mil­ton will be performing on the south side of Madeleva Hall. A one dollar donation will go the Mara Fox Scholarship Fund. 
In other SAB news: 
•Students 
can pick up Silver Hawks tickets at the Haggar front desk for the game on Monday, April 24. Tickets are free, and students are permit­ted two per I.D. 

•The 
movie "Only You" will be shown on May 4 in Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 


,---THE 1995 


page 5 

• SECURITY BEAT 

Mon., Aprll17 

3:18 a.m. A Fisher Hall resid1mt reported the then of clothing from hiN room. 
Tues., Aprll18 
1:10 p.m. A University employee was transported to St. Joseph Medical for tr('!atment of an Illness. 
1:21 p.m. A Pasquerilla West resl· dent reported the theft of ber wallet from tho North Dlntng Hall. Her wal· let was later found Intact. 
5:45 p.m. A University employee reported vandalism to hllr vehicle while parkad In the B01 parking lot. 
Wed., April 19 
1:12 p.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Juniper Road. There wore no injuries reported. 
2:55 p.m. Security rospondlld to a two car accident In Red Field West. There wor!l no Injuries reportod. 
9:47 p.m. A Dillon Hall resident re­ported the theft of numerous Items from an unlocked locker In the Rockne Memorial Building. 
8:12 p.m. A Pangborn Hall resi­dent reported tho theft of her bib from the l'a.ngbnm bike rack. 



0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
Full Sit Down Dinner Banquet 
St. Patrick's Parish Center Downtown Soutlt Bend 
$10/person 

Tickets on sale at the Campus Ministn; Office in the Hesburglt Libran; 
Doors open at 6:00p.m. 
Din1ler promptly at 6:30p.m. 


91C T05TAl 


-~~~-~~----------------~----­
Friday, April 21, 1995
page 6 The Observer· OKLAHOMA BOMBING 
FBI issues arrest warrants 
By SHARON COHEN 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY 

Moving ·swiftly to solve the deadliest U.S. bombing in near­ly 70 rears. the FBI issued arrest warrants Thursday for two men suspected of renting the truck that blew apart the federal building with a half-ton of home-brewed explosives. 
In London, a third man, a Jordanian-American described by U.S. officials as a possible witness in the attack, was put on a plane back to the United States for questioning. Italian officials said his bags, seized in Rome, contained possible bomb-making tools. 
Three more bodies were re­moved in late afternoon, raising the death toll to 39. Rescue teams briefly suspended the search for survivors for fear workers could become buried; they resumed snaking through the crumbled hulk of the nine­story Alfred Murrah Federal Building after the shattered columns We1·e reinforced with steel and concrete. 
BED'N'BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
Rooms ;n private homes for: 

JPW, BLUE & GOLD, GRADUATION, FOOTBALL, FRESHMEN ORIENTATION 
AND OTHER SPECIAL ND-SMC WEEKENDS 
(219) 291-7153 

Engagement Rings 
10%-15% OFF! 


Official Wholesale Price list! 
S.A. Peck & Co. 

55 E. Washington, Chicago, IL 60602 For a Free 32-Page Color Catalog Toll-Free (800) 922-009~ FAX (312) 977-0248 Internet Catalog at bUp: 1/www.sapeck.com/sapeck 
Gov. Frank Keating reported a firefighter told him: "You find out whoever did this. All I've found in here are a baby's fin­ger and an American flag." 
FBI Agent Weldon Kennedy said arrest warrants have been issued for two white men sus­pected of using aliases to rent the truck used in the car bomb­ing Wednesday morning. The men's identities were not known, he said. 
Investigators said the truck was rented April 17, packed with fuel-and-fertilizer explo­sives and parked outside the office building, where the blast tore away half the structure and blew a crater 8 feet deep and 30 feet across. 

An axle thought to have come from the vehicle was found about two blocks away, said a police source who spoke on condition of anonymity. Major auto parts are marked with an ID number to thwart thieves. Two years ago, the vehicle ID 

•lla II 011111(11) U:55.3"10,5:4D,B:00,10:20 •flrra!Giai(JIG) 1:00,4:1111,7:00,10:00 •~*'a &llbriiB(II) 1:20,4:115,7:18,10:10 •lliB Cln(PG-13) 1:115,3:30.5:50,8:115,10:~5 •Cidlll Ffiiiii(PG-13) 1:30,4:20,7:20,9:50 •IIIIaDIMNPG-13) 1~:50,3:10,5:30,7:45,10:05 •IIIII' P-G-13) 1:10,H5.5:45.7:55,10:15 •111'111 Wliiiii(R) 1:35,4:18,7:115,8:45 
•Til TIIII(PGJ 1:25,3:35.5:35 •EIDIElRl7:40,8:55 111111118 ~1:15,3:05,5:00 
MIDIIIIIII K1DU GBII'IID(PG-13) 7:15.8:40 31 7;> ALL SEArSilcfOnE 6 Pl.1
*llO PASSb SUPlll~AV~R> r,c.CEPTED 


TUESDAY May2, 1995 
W E D N E S D A Y May 3, 1995 
number on a piece of axle en­abled investigators to break the World Trade Center bombing case. 
A federal law enforcement of­ficial, demanding anonymity, said investigators believe the truck was rented in Kansas and are checking fertilizer dealers in that state to try to trace the fertilizer used in the bomb. 
Dave Russell, a Ryder Truck Rental official, said the FBI had contacted his company about a truck rented from Elliott's Body Shop in Junction City, Kansas., about 270 miles north of Okla­homa City. Russell said he could not comment further. 
The FBI issued sketches of the two suspects after sending an artist to Junction City to talk to witnesses. 
In Washington, Attorney 
General Janet Reno announced 
a $2 million reward for infor­
mation leading to arrests in the 
case. 
[R] 
1 :15, 4:30, 7:30, 9:45 
Jefferson in Paris 
[PG13] 1 :00, 4:00, 7:00, 1 0:00 
Jurv Duty 
[PG13) 12:45, 3:00, 5:00, 7:15, 9:30 

I D A Y !May 5, 1995 
S A T U R D A Y !May 6, 1995 
May 7, 1995 
Tommy Boy 

[PG13] 12:00,2:45, 5:15, 9:45 
Circle of Friends 
[PG13] 1:45,4:00,6:45, 9:15 
Kiss of Death 

[R]2:00, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
May19951 , 
Bad Boys 
[R] 1:30,4:30,7:15, 10:00 
Goofy Movie 
[G] 12:15,2:15,4:15, 6:30, 8:30 
While you were sleeping 
[PG] 2:30, 5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
Friday, April 21, 1995 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Imprisoned Americans still off-limits North Korean 
By BARRY SCHWEID Ryszard Krystosik had been Kuwait. The U.S. government The Polish diplomat is the nuclear talks 
told his weekly visits had been cut back to once every two weeks. 
The Pole was turned back a third consecutive day Thursday in trying to visit David Daliberti, 41, of Jacksonville, Fla., and William Barloon, 39, of New Hampton, Iowa. 
They were imprisoned near Baghdad five weeks ago and sentenced to eight years for crossing the border from 

Associated Press 
WASIIlNGTON 

U.S. officials were stymied Thursday in eiTorts to allow two Americans imprisoned in Iraq to be visited by their wives and a Polish diplomat. The State Department said it would keep trying. 
Spokesman Nicholas Burns also said the department was checking a report that diplomat 

ikl(l(!f~ 
!Ia;;, 8tie-t~lflj' t~t~ cftarlflj'/ 
/ov-e, ;l(o~ Oo.c( Ro.ale, 
;Ito.r-#1 0/e.r-t~ttire 

has called the border-crossing a harmless mistake and de­manded their release. 
Burns said applications for their wives to visit them were given to Iraqi diplomats in Amman, Jordan, by U.S. diplo­mats there. "The Iraqi govern­ment has not yet responded to those applications," he said. "Again, we hope that the Iraqi government will agree that these two women have a right to see their husbands." 

only contact with the two Americans. Iraqi sources told The Associated Press in Bagh­dad his visits had been cut back because weekly visits violated Iraqi prison regulations. 
"It's another indication, if it is true, of the unjustifiable nature of the detention of these two individuals," Burns said. "And we would call upon the Iraqi government to release them expeditiously. 
GOOD GRIEF! HOW CAN THIS BE? 
STEPHANIE HARTUNG IS 21 TODAY! 
LOVE, MOM, DAD, & DAVID 
break down 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 
Talks between the United States and North Korea broke down today with the two sides unable to agree on a plan to prevent the Communist nation from restarting a nuclear pro­gram capable of p.roducing weapons. 
The talks, which had re­sumed Tuesday, broke down after only 15 minutes of discus­sion. 
Kim Jong U, head of the North Korean delegation, said the talks remained deadlocked and would not be continued. 
Chief U.S. negotiator Gary Samore declined to comment. 
The Americans were re­ported to have presented a compromise that would keep North Korea from carrying out its threat to restart its pluto­nium-producing nuclear reac­tor. 
North Korea had threatened to restart its program unless an agreement was reached by Friday. 
Hampshire
Country Club 
27 Hole Championship 
Course Open to Public Reservations required weekends only. 29592 Pokagon Hw. Dowagiac, Ml 49047 616-782-7476 
We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, great prlce ...Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $270 1-Bedrooms from $285 2-Bedrooms from $355 
24-hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or stop by today and IW'II show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
272-1880 

+llCKORij 

DlLLA~E-
Mon.-Fri. 8·6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12·4 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, April 21, 1995 



Government negotiators Canada, U.S. at odds over Cuba delay Mexican peace talks 
By JEFFREY ULBRICH Foreign Minister Andre Ouel­The Helms bill would block Associated Press let says the American legisla­imports of sugar and molasses 
By JOSEPH FRAZIER 
Associated Press 
SAN ANDRES LARRAINZAR 
Government negotiators failed to show up Thursday for the first peace talks in over a year, put off by the hundreds of peasants who set up camp in town to show support for guer­rilla leaders. 
The night before, angry gov­ernment officials had warned the surprise demonstration that rebel sympathizers could jeop­ardize the peace process. 
"The fight goes on!" throngs of Indian farmers in sandals and straw hats shouted when the rebel negotiators arrived Wednesday night. "Long live the Zapatista National Libera­tion Army!" 
Although there has been no 


Iceberg 
continued from page 1 
equally as hard to debate, but it was a good topic-an interest­ing one that was worthy of de­bate," stated Holloway. 
"I think that the debate was good and the speakers from Keenan were excellent-there is a reason they were number one-but the Icebergs are about values and not policy, which is the approach they took," said John Gardner, a member of the Grace team. 
In the Stanford-Howard de­bate, held last night, the win-fighting since January 1994, the government's failure to end . the Zapatista rebellion in the southern state of Chiapas has contributed to the sense of cri­sis in Mexico over the past 16 months. 
Last month the two sides agreed to meet in San Andres Larrainzar for their first formal talks in more than a year, to be held in a hastily constructed building on the dusty town's basketball court. 
Talks were to begin Thursday morning, but had not begun by early afternoon. 
The Interior Ministry said late Wednesday the demonstra­tion was "obviously planned" with the rebels and "could put at risk the beginning of peace talks." 
ning Stanford team was led by debaters Chris Regan and Matt Hoefling, both sophomores at Stanford. 
"It was a good debate. They came out with a wide spread of points. We approached it with a smaller number of more de­veloped points. We were glad the judges liked our approach better," said Regan. Arguing for the negative, Stanford won with the judging score of 2-1. 
The finals, scheduled to be held Wednesday, April 26, will either be held in the LaFortune Ballroom or in the Library Au­ditorium and the topic will con­cern the Balanced Budget Amendment. 
HAPPY BELATED BIRTHDAY 
SHEILA 

BRENNAN 
From all of 
us down at Spangler's Brewery 


~N Es,o ~~ u ~1) 
....._ .. 0 
~ Spanish Mass r­
domingo, 23 de abril de 1995 
11:30 a.m. Breen-Phillips Hall Chapel 
Celebraqte Padre JaiiiCS McDoqald, c.s.c. 
Todos Estan lnvitados 
-All Are Welcome0MPUS 
~ponsored by

MINISTRY Campu~ Mimstry 
Coro Pnmavera i:ie Nuestra Seilora 

TORONTO 
Few issues get the United States more stirred up than Cuba. And nothing stirs up Canada more than Washing­ton's obsession with that dirt­poor island off the coast of Florida. 
The latest irritant is Republi­can legislation now working its way through the U.S. Congress that is designed to tighten the isolation noose around Fidel Castro's neck and punish those who do business with him. 
Canada -which did about $220 million in trade with Cuba in 1993 -has protested vehe­mently, firing off a seven-page diplomatic note last month to the Americans pointing out that the bill violates the North American Free Trade Agree­ment as well as international law. 
The 15-member European Union also has joined the protest. 
Despite American pressure for more than 30 years, Canada has stuck to its belief that it is better to try to bring democracy to Cuba through dialogue than through confrontation and iso­lation. 
tion, sponsored by Sen. Jesse Helms of North Carolina and Rep. Dan Burton of Indiana, tries to impose American law outside the United States. 
"If the United States of America has been able to make peace and turn the page in re­gard to Vietnam, they should do the same with a country that ... is no longer a threat in any way, shape or form to them," Ouellet told reporters Tuesday at the United Nations. 
from any country that buys Cuban sugar. It also would deny entry to the United States to anyone who buys or rents property confiscated from Americans by the Castro regime. 
Canada imports sugar from Cuba, as well as nickel and fish. About 30 Canadian companies have investments in Cuba, and the island's beaches draw about 130,000 sun-starved Canadian tourists a year. 
Thr 1lotrr Dame Opera ({jorkshop presents (Ilolfgong Mmodrus NJ[ozort's 




Don <3iooanni 
Dirtctcd b)!  oonducttd bq  
~orr~ @rice  John {1pcitos  
8:00p.m.  

Washington Hall Friday, April 21, 1995 Saturday, April 22, 1995 
Free and open to the public. 
• UNITED STATES • SRI LANKA • GRE~~ADA • INDIA • IRAN • CANADA • GREAT BRITAIN • LEBANON • 
Z I 
~ 3 
~ 

• (f) 
:-i 
s 
z


CHALLENGEYOUR MIND 
0 
m 
• z -j
w 
0 
z 

<( 6

REPRESENT YOUR COUNTRY
~ :IJ 
lL m 
as 
"lJ 
0 
r
0 p 
<( EXPERIENCE OTHER p 
_j 
0 

• 
(f)
(f) <( 0 

0 ~ CULTURES 0 z 
~ 

<( -l 
<( p 
(l) 

11 
• :IJ 
<( 

I MAKE THEWORLD I c 
:::> p 
<( 

~ z 
<( G) 
0 m 


CJ HEALTHIER 0 
z 
:IJ <( OJ 
~ 

I ~ 
z • MAKE ADIFFERENCE ~ • 
(f)
<( 

(l) ~ 
:::> 

<( It's up to you to make your dreams come true. And, ifyou dream of z p 
CJ • F becoming adoctor, you should be coming to us...an international -u 
z 0 <( • university dedicated to improving health care across the world. Over :IJ -l c
z 

~ 1900 ofour graduates are now practicing medicine in 45 countries. G) p
(f) 

z <( All courses are in English. Our campuses are located in Grenada and < r • I St. Vincent, with affiliated hospitals in the United States, the United m
CJ -l 
z
lL <( Kingdom and the Caribbean. Ifyou are up to the challenge, contact: p
• Office ofAdmissions, Dept. ACA5, St. George's University, c/o the ~ 
c._ 
North American Correspondent, Medical School Services, Ltd. p 
~
• p
w 

One East Main Street, Bay Shore, New York 11706-8399 
~ 0 ~ 516-665-8500 • 800-899-6337 • Fax: 516-665-5590 p • 
• A 
z m 
0 z 0 ~ 
~ 

. 
w ~ 
~ p 
~ St. George's University ~ 
~ ~ 
u5 Shaping the world. ..one mind at atime ; 0 m 
~ ~ r ~ 
• PERU • PAKISTAN • CHINA •TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO • GREECE • NAMIBIA • GUYANA • YEMAN • 
~-------~------~---. 



VIEWPOINT 

Friday, April 21, 1995 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME 0FFCC!!: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
&litor-in-Chicf John Luc-as Managing &litor Business Manager Suzanne Fry Joseph Riley 

News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint &litor .................. Michael O'Hara Ad Design Manager .......................Ryan Malayter Sports &litor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager ................. .Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor .........................Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............. -.............. Sean Gallavan Photo &litor .................................. Rob Finch Observer Marketing Director ..-....... Pete Coleman Saint Mary's &litor .................... Patti Carson Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du l.ac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reAect the policies of the administra­
tion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­
torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News &litor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Ediwr, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. 
Commcmaries, letters and Inside Columns present rhc views of rhc authors, and nor necessarily those 
of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of <he Noue Dame/Sain< Mary's com­munity and co all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 
631-4541 Advertising 631-6900I 8840 
631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 
631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 
631-4540 Fax 631-6927 
631-5303 E-Mail Observer.Viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
631-7471 Unix observer@boron.helios.nd.edu 

• EDITORIAL 
ND Security aln 'Cool Like Dat' 

We always knew the Dead would never come, but this is g!'tting ridiculous. . .. .. 
The recent announcement that the annual AnTostal concert had 
been quashed largely by security concerns, carne as ashockto stu-< 
dents still smarting from the memory of last year's failure. 
Apparently, Security received reports of an incident thatoccurred 
in Buffalo. N.Y., that involved the Digable Planets and agroup of 
unruly fans. Upon digging further, they found other "incidents" 
that caused them to be concerned about the group's performance, 
But this controversy is not totally about bringing a band to cam· 
pus. This is about bringing in a band with strong cultural eonnec• 
tlons-n rap act that would have been Notre Dame's first. fjUB's . 
efforts in bringing rap to campus was a great step in the right 
direction toward encouraging diversity at Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's. 
In organizing the concert, it would have been easier for the SUB 
Music Committee to s:.tt up a Blues Traveler or Dave Matthews..type 
show. Instead. the committee chose to do something different by 
trying to widen Notre Dame's cultural horizons. It's not as if their 
iob is sil'(lple in the first place. In order to bring any band to cam~ 
pus, the committee has to clear an exceptional and unreasonable 
number of hurdles. 
Security and safety issues are foremost in any organizer's mind. 
No one wants to see a concert or anything related to the event get 
out of hand. But, did the university feel Digable Planets would 
attract a sizable non·student, local crowd that would have been 
predominately African-American? Yes. Would that crowdbave 
been uncontrollable or dangerous? No. 
What Security fails to realize, is that Digable Planets is not 
an act 
that frequently moves people to vi.olence. While there may or may 
not have boon a brawl in BuffaJo, their brand of rap is clearly of a 
different style than Snoop Doggy Dogg, TuPac Shakur or 
other "gangsta" rappers. who have a checkered record of 
at concerts. 
While Digable Planets are proud of their roots, they appeal to 
multi-ethnic audience. According to a recent Los Angeles Tlmes 
review. "The Planets' revolutionary rhetoric on black pride and 
independence was delivered with an embracing warmth 
Wednesday (interestingly, to a predominantly white audience)." A 
Rolling Stone magazine reviewer recently called a Digable Planets 
show "too subdued" for a college•age crowd. 
So why aren't they coming? Because It is easier to place a blan· 
kot label over a race of people or a type of music than to objectively 
discern the quality of the group or their music without bias. 
In Notre Dame's efforts to diversify both its student body and its .. 
community. blocking the Digable Planets show was not a wise 
move. Granted security issues come to the forefront when consid· 
ering any major concert production, but there must be a balance 
between cultural awareness and erring on the side of caution. 
• 000NESBURY 
page 9 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Keep children aware of abuse 
Dear Editor: 
After reading several of the very personal testaments to sexual abuse/assault that The Observer has printed this past Sexual Assault Awareness Week, I have been provoked to write my own. 
I am a victim of sexual abuse. My story is not nearly as painful as those that I have learned about. I was molested by an older male cousin when I was about five. The incidents occurred over a three or four month period, and numbered around eight or nine times. My story is not terribly haunt· ing, because the abuse did not last for very long. Maybe those half hour "visitations" by my cousin seemed to last for­ever at the time, but in retro­spect, I was lucky. Countless numbers of children are sexu­ally abused each day, the abuse often continuing for years at a time. 
There is a very strong rea­son that I can tell my story without feeling pain or pity for myself. That reason is my parents. When I first men­tioned the "games" that my cousin wanted me to play before I went to sleep on those nights when be baby-sat, they did not hesitate to believe me. I can remember the fear I felt before bringing the topic up. Would they believe me? Did I do something wrong? Is this my fault? Could I be mistak­en? 
I do not feel sorry for myself at all. I have led a very nor­mal, extremely happy life. My relationships with my family, cousins included, are very lov­ing and healthy. My two clos­est friends in the world are guys. I have had a normal 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
dating life. 
Instead, I feel for my par­ents, especially my mother. How hard was it for her to tell her sister that her son was molesting his five-year-old cousin? She and my father dealt with more emotions and heartache in this situation than I will ever have to. My healthy, wonderfully happy life exists because of my parents. 
I am writing this letter to you, students of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munities, who wish to become parents. Please make sure your children know the differ· ence between "good touch" and "bad touch." Please make sure that they can turn to you if this problem arises. Believe them if it does. Your openness and responsiveness in a situa­tion like this can make the dif­ference in your child's life. My parents' actions made the dif· ference in mine. 

I thought seriously about signing my name to this letter. to give the story a face, a real­ity. Yet I do not want or need personal reflection. I am al­most glad it happened to me ­instead of my two younger brothers, or to another child whose parents would have brushed him or her off. In­stead, 1 sign this letter on be­half of all children who have ever been sexually abused or assaulted. 
ANONYMOUSF~HMAN 
Saint Mary's 

1 HOP& WU DON'T M/NO
~R! HOW ARt 
THANK YOU,
ACTUAU't 

THAT J £3'5771&/SHED HIS
YOUOONT

YOU AND tJTTl.-& JENNYJVNE.S.
I 00?/R. 

Bt.OOOUN£3'5. SOM&TIM&S
WANT TO
tARt.... HITTIN& 
WHE.RE'S THAT
!CAR& 1 CANTHUP MY­

KNO/JJ. 
"Books are the quietest
/TOFF? 
GUNNY­ABOUTBOTH 

SELF. 1 JUST UK£"­
SACK?
OF YOU. 
and constant of 

BRINGING P&O­
I 

PL£ TVGCTHCR/ 
friends ...and the most patient of teachers." 
-Charles W. Eliot 

page 10 The Observer• WEEKEND Friday, April 21, 1995 

···i,' 


Photos courtesy of Des. Skydive Michigan! 
Above: Aimee Garbison tries tandem jumping with instructor Mike Tudor, from Skydive Michigan! Below: The two get ready to hit the ground. 


Learn,ing to fly 



Y
By AIMEE GARBISON open at around 2,500 feet, as Assistant Accent Editor 
opposed to 5,000 for tandem jumpers). The jerk pulled us ou must be crazy. You're upright, and we were floating jumping out of a plane­instead of flying. I was able to on purpose? It was nice ask Mike questions; he showed knowing you. Do I get first pick me spiral turns and explained from your CD collection? how we would land (essentially, Thanks for the 4.0. roomie. landing for us was like stepping Ah, the many skeptics. off a curb). This part of the Yes, I was a little more ner­jump typically lasts five or six vous than I cared to admit. I'm minutes. not a risk-taker by nature. I But enough already with the thrive on security. I'm the kind technicalities. The five of us of person who avoids walking returned to campus still feeling tllrough the quads on a sunny the effects of the adrenaline day out of fear that I may get rush (which was, I am con­hit in the head with a runaway vinced, the chief cause of my frisbee. Leaving my umbrella lead foot which in turn led to a at home on a cloudy day in speeding ticket on the drive South Bend is about as out­back to campus). Ben and I rageous as I get. were joined by Keenan fresh­With this strong attachment man Roj Nair and Pasquerilla to my bodily safety in mind, I West junior Jen Schell, both later wondered what delusive making their second tandem substance could have led me to jumps. even consider skydiving. I pon­Keenan sophomore Doug dered this question Saturday Burns also made his first jump morning as I signed the lengthy Saturday in spite of his fear of waiver which featured the unofficial Notre Dame skydiv­Luckily, I was the last one in head while skydiving, lowered heights. To say he enjoyed words "risk," "injury," and­ing contact. Ben made his our group to jump. After gain­himself out of the plane and himself is an understatement; the kicker-"death" repeatedly forty-seventh jump on ing some reassurance from see­waited for Mike and I so we we could hear him yelling (with and prominently in bold and Saturday, having started his ca­ing everyone return alive-and could jump simultaneously. pleasure, that is) from hun­caps. I dwelled on it, watch­reer at the age of 18. In the somehow happy-1 knew it was Without allowing me to back dreds of feet above ground. He ing my Notre Dame com­past three years Ben has ac­my time. Feeling the power of out.. .I mean, without wasting did have second thoughts panions as they were taken companied about twenty Notre my lucky "Charlie's Angels" T­any time, Mike counted, and on throughout the day, as he read­away one by one in full skydiv­Dame students on their first shirt, I proceeded to suit up in three I somehow found myself ily admits. "What really scared ing garb to test fate. This ques­jumps. He is eager to share the a flattering black jumpsuit, catapulting through the air. me was all the talk of 'terminal tioning of my own sanity con­sport with anyone who's inter­gloves, goggles, and of course, The rush of skydiving comes velocity,"' he remembers. "I tinued as the airplane gently ested. "It's great to see the re­harness. Mike gave me a few mainly from the freefall, which knew I was going to die. Isn't rose while my heart rapidly action people have when they words of instruction: close usually lasts about 35-40 sec­that what 'terminal' means?" dropped further and further make their first jump. It's such your mouth to breathe during onds. Mike and I flipped out of For my own part, I know I fnto the pit of my stomach. a rush, and a natural high-! freefall. Keep your arms the plane, and then there we can't give justice to this experi­But, about six short minutes think everyone should try it at crossed in front of you until I were. hurtling towards the ence through my description. after I had been hanging out of least once," Mitchell exclaims. indicate otherwise. Rest your earth at 125 miles per hour. Skydiving can be exciting and an airplane's open door, star­As a first-time jumper, I used head back on my shoulder so The sensation in my stomach peaceful, terrifying and spiritu­ing down 10,000 feet, I knew the tandem method. I was any jerk of your head doesn't resembled that of a roller­al-all within a six minute exactly why I had committed partnered with an instructor knock me in the face or knock coaster ride, only magnified-a span. It may not be the sport myself to this experience. More (the ever-patient Mike Tudor). me out (note: the parachute is lot. I tried to breathe, smile, for everyone, but I do want to importantly, I knew why I had The tandem method involves equipped with a device which keep my head up for the pho­stress that the first tandem 
followed through with it. jump does not require any
very little training; the first causes it to open automatically tographer, and scream-all at There's something to be said time through the jumper is sim­at a designated altitude, in the the same time. grace (physical or otherwise) or for an adrenaline rush-any ply along for the ride. I was freak event that the instructor Freefall feels more like flying athletic ability-I'm living 
athlete or thrill-seeker will tell proof. Both Doug and I are
attached to Mike with a four­becomes incapacitated). Des, than falling. Though I've tried, 
you that. Skydiving affected me strap harness (each strap, Ben the photographer, had his in­I can't remember what was looking forward to making as nothing else has. The rush assured me, can support the struction too-remember to going through my head during more jumps-hopefully we can doesn't seem to diminish as the weight of a car), clipped at the smile. Sure, pal. those all-too brief seconds. I both complete the four tandem novelty fades after multiple waist and shoulders. We made our ascent in a tiny honestly don't believe I was jumps required so we can train jumps-I can't even count the In the course of the jump, I plane without seats, circling thinking at all-my focus was and jump solo. I encourage 
number of times the employees anyone who is even remotely
had virtually no respon­until we hit 10,000 feet. I had completely directed on pure 
at Skydive Michigan! emphati­sibilities-the main rule was to my first encounter with harsh sensation. For the most part, I interested to contact Ben for cally exclaimed "I love my job"! refrain from grabbing Mike's reality when the door opened. was oblivious of Mike's pres­more information. Perhaps Jen These people are a unique arms in panic. This would, log­As the cold air gushed in, I ence. It was as if I was flying Schell offers the most con­club; they've discovered how to ically, prevent him from being tried to pick out the airport alone. vincing appeal. "Very few capture some of heaven and able to open the parachute, and from among the specks on the The opening of the parachute things give such a feeling of they love to share it. thus would create a minor ground. Des, who somehow was somewhat of a shock, freedom, recklessness, and ex­This enthusiastic attitude is glitch in the success of the possesses an incredible talent especially as I watched Des citement," she says, "and noth­what led Keenan junior Ben jump. for taking still photos or video whiz past us as he continued to ing is as beautiful as floating 
Mitchell to take on the role of for 5,000 feet." 
with cameras strapped to his freefall (experienced jumpers 
Friday, April 21, 1995 The Observer• WEEKEND 
Expressing body art: 
industry. "Hockin' Robin" Antolovich, artist and owner of
No pain, no gain 
Michiana Tattoo Emporium. believes that tattoos and 
By ASHLEIGH THOMPSON 
Accent Copy Editor 
N
eedles. Blood. And a Jot of pain. Not only are more and more people subjecting themselves to . this willingly, but they're even paying money for It. _What used to be a trademark for the Harley­Davidson club or exotic gypsies can now be seen on fashion show runways and MTV videos. It's art, it's addictive, and it's becoming trendy. Welcome to Generation X's new scene. Welcome to the world of tat­toos and body piercing. 
·While the youth of today may associate a navel ring with Madonna or a tattoo with Red Hot Chili Peppers' Anthony Kiedis, piercing has long been a facet of the piercing are not necessarily trendy, they're just becom­mg more accepted. Despite Notre Dame's traditionally conservative reputation, Hockin' Robin admits that they've seen quite a few Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students within the past few years. He describes his typical clientele as middle class. usually between the a~es of 26 and 30. Surprisingly enough, about 60% of his customers are women. At Michiana Tattoo, navels are most commonly chosen for piercing, and personal designs are gaining popularity over the more than 6000 tattoo designs offered. Prices start at $40 and can exceed $5000. And don't forget that as far as the tat­toos are concerned, they're permanent. 
Maybe it's this permanency that lends allure to tat­toos. Dunne confesses that once in a while she'll get 

Indian culture and tattoos can be traced baek as far as Ancient Egypt. Fine tat­toos were once a sign of good l:ireeding in New Zealand, even though only recently in the ! · United States have these forms of expression extended to peo­pie other than sailors. soldiers and criminals. Many American youths, regardless of their culture, religion or parent's wishes, disregard these thoughts of the past to enjoy an expression of today. And some of them even go to Notre Dame. 
Yes. our conservative campus is being invaded with liberals. Freshmen from Farley flaunt the newest in nose ring fashion, while 
that senior from Sorin shows his style with a scorpion tattooed prominently on his shoulder. Now before any 
shocked alumni withdraw their con­trihutions, it must be mentioned that those expressive Notre Dame stu­dents back their actions with some pretty deep motives. 
A Dillon sophomore chose his fami­ly crest and a Celtic religious piece for tattoo designs that would be per­sonally meaningful. Kristin Fakler 
-


worried when she realizes her tattoo will be on her ankle forever. Tattoos invoke feelings of mys­tique and rebel­lion. Kovarik described the nov­elty of body art by saying, "Everyone kinda wants to be different." Those with pierces and tattoos on campus are definitely dif­ferent, too. Students describe snotty comments they've received and roommates who couldn't look at their pierces for weeks. But all agree that what anyone else thinks doesn't matter; you get a tattoo for your own expression and 
enjoyment.On the other hand, what members of the opposite sex think may be relevant to some. Junior Grant Blachly admits 
that a tasteful tattoo or nose ring on a female can be very attractive. When senior Amy Borbely finds out a guy has a tattoo that isn't readily visible, she is immediately intrigued. This exotic, sensual quality may have something to 
-

do with body art's growing popularity. Michiana Tattoo Emporium bumper stickers read, "It's No Sin, Skin Is In." Sounds like Patti O'Hara's newest 
nightmare. So if you have the money and the 
feels that her butterfly tattoo symbol-The Observer/Brandon candura pain tolerance, feel like there's no bet­izes a kind of freedom and individual Body art expressed as an emblem, ter time to become a human palette beauty. During high school, fresh-naval piercing, nipple piercing, and are sure your parents won't stop man Shannon Dunne promised her-angel, and a scorpion Ill~strate paying your tuition, allow me to pre­self a congratulatory shamrock tat-some fashion of Generation X. pare you for your tattoo studio experi­
too if she was aceepted into Notre Dame. Dana Kovarik's answer when asked why she chose a globe tattoo for her hip? "I got it so I'd always remember when I was 18 and wanted to rule the world." 
The reasons given vary, but some similarities remain. Not only is most body art relatively expensive, it hurts, a lot. If you question Grace Hall's Aaron Nolan about get-ling his nipple pierced. he'll tell you it was the most intense pain he ever experienced. Fakler deseribed the tattoo sensation as the feeling of all your nerves being electrocuted at once. Brian Tracy, on the other hand, loved it. "It was the kind of pain that made you want to come baek for more," Traey commented. 
And they do come back for more. Tattoos and body-piercing are highly addictive. Outside Niles, Michigan's Michiana Tattoo Emporium is a sign that reads, 
"Caution: Tattoos may become habit forming." Despite the pain and cost, most people with tattoos or piercing say they love their body art and would do it again. A junior from Ohio explained that in a fickle world where marriages, money, governments and even family are insecure, her tattoo is something that will always be with her. Wow! With justifications like these, it's not hard to understand why body art is per­meating so much of the fashion and entertainment ence. Initially, the number of tattoos displayed boggles the m~nd. Casually walking around the studio will not only give Y?U a chan.ce t? check out all the cool and not so cool designs, but It will probably do a lot to mentally prepare you for what is to come. You and your friends (friends are useful for moral support, or in case your 
H.A. d~cides to make this a section field trip) may take a few mmutes to ponder who really gets a 6-inch tattoo of Barney anyway, or you may try and figure out how some~ne ~~ts yo-cream with their tongue pierced. After mqmrmg about your procedure and negotiating cost, make sure to ask whether the studio regularly tests their artists for AIDS and Hepatitis B. Gloves and new needles are a must. Now sit back in your chair and rel_ax. In a few hours you won't even remember the pam. Okay, a few days? 
Whether people use body art to feel more attractive, express themselves or just to follow the alternative fad leader obviously depends on the individual. Regardless of personal motivations, tattoos and body piercing may be here to stay, or at least as long as the 90's "Express ~ourself' dec~de lasts. If n?thing else, ~lder genera­­
ltons are remmded once agam that today s youth have something to say. Grandmothers and metal detectors may not approve, but few can disagree that body art 
takes freedom of expression to a whole new level. 
I 
I I I 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 21, 1995 



Balanced attack leads Bulls over Pistons 
Associated Press 
Michael Jordan seemed to have fun at the United Center for the first time, putting on a dunking and dishing display Thursday night as the Chicago Bulls defeated the Detroit Pistons 120-105. 
Jordan, who has said he hates the new arena in comparison to old Chicago Stadium, still missed more shots (10) than he made 
(8) for the seventh time in seven home games since coming out of retirement. 
But he did have 17 points, eight rebounds and seven assists in 27 minutes. And numbers didn't really tell the story as Jordan led the Bulls to their 11th victory in 12 games in what was little more than a warmup 

-
for the playoffs. 
He had a two-handed toma­hawk dunk in the first quarter and a soaring, one-handed jam on an alley-oop pass from Jud Buechler in the second. And he really put on a show in the third period, when Chicago broke open the game. 

Jordan drove the lane for a thunderous slam, made a short bank shot at the end of a 360­degree spin move in the lane, beat rookie Grant Hill down the court for a fast-break jam and converted a three-point play on an aggressive drive. 
He also used look-away passes to set up two baskets by Will Perdue and one each by Scottie Pippen and Toni Kukoc. 
Pippen led the Bulls with 20 points and nine assists and rookie Dickey Simpkins had a career-high 16 points. 
Terry Mills scored 26 points and Hill had 20 points and 15 rebounds for the Pistons, who have lost six of seven games as they near the end of another poor season. 
The Buechler-to-Jordan alley­oop highlighted a 21-6 first-half run that gave the Bulls the lead for good. 
Behind Mills and Hill, Detroit battled back to 70-68 in the third period. But Jordan had five points and three assists as Chicago closed the quarter with a 21-8 surge. 
Knicks 91, Hornets 86 
The New York Knicks' fourth­quarter rally without starters Patrick Ewing and Derek Harper gave them a 91-86 victory over the Charlotte Hornets on Thursday night and clinched the Central Division title for the Indiana Pacers. 
The win also locked up the second-best record in the Eastern Conference for the Knicks. 
The Hornets, who were chas­ing the Pacers, will be the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference and play the Chicago Bulls in the first round. 
Ewing sat down briefly in the first quarter after straining his left hamstring, played sporadi­cally through the next two peri­ods and sat out the fourth quar­ter. He finished with four points in 19 minutes. 
Harper, who was bothered by a sore right ankle, played 11 minutes and did not score. 
Charles Oakley's three-point play with 20 seconds remaining capped the Knicks' comeback. 
When Alonzo Mourning hit the tail end of a two-shot foul with 
8:57 to play, Charlotte took a 76-64 lead. New York went on an 11-0 run which was in­terrupted by Larry Johnson's two free throws with 5:07 to go. The Knicks followed with two baskets by Anthony Mason and Oakley and claimed a 79-78lead with 4:16 remaining. 
After Mourning scored from the left baseline at 3:55, Herb Williams got two baskets for the Knicks, both after missed shots, boosting the lead to 83-80. 

Johnson made two more free throws at 2:11, bringing the Hornets within 83-82, and after a free throw by Oakley, Johnson hit a fadeaway to tie the score at 84 with 1:21 to go. 
Both teams missed tie-break­ing opportunities on successive possessions.Oakley posted up the shorter Dell Curry and missed a short jumper, but he got his own rebound, scored, was fouled by Mourning and completed the three-point play. 
John Starks led New York with 18 points. Mason and Charles Smith got 15, Hubert Davis scored 13 and Oakley 12. 
Mourning had 22 points and 10 rebounds to lead Charlotte, which was hoping to reach the 50-win level for the first time in team history. Hersey Hawkins scored 12 points, carrying him over the 10,000-point plateau and making him the 196th play­er to do so. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the None Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

COUNSELORS WANTED for  SUBLET THIS SUMMERI  Need 5 grad tix for brothers and  
NOTICES  If anyone found a pair of glasses in LaFun (although! it could have been  Kwiwanis Twin Lakes Camp located in Plymounth, Ind. This is a sum­ College Park Condo­2 females needed!  sisters. They've been waiting 23 years for this ­PLEASE call  SOPHOMORES»> Get involved in the  
anywhere on campus) last  mer camp tor physically and men­ 272-1538  4-2869. Very desperate  CLASS OF '97 MASS  
AUDITIONS-auditions for the NO  week (4/5 or 4/6) in ablack flip­ tally handicapped children and  to be held at 2pm on SUNDAY  
Folk Choir are now being held. Open to all current freshman. men  open case (by the TV somewhere) I desperately need them back.  young adults. Most campers are age 7 thru 21, but we have lifted the  NEEDED: 1 bdrm apt to sublease or roommate to share apt this sum­ PERSONAL  April 23rd at the Grotto. We still need EUCHARISTIC MINISTERS.  
and women. SIGN UP NOW call  They are tawny, oval-shaped  age limit The campers are from  mer call 284-5065  LECTORS, ALTAR SERVERS, and  
631-5242  frames by prodesign.  the Chicago metro area and from all  ADOPTION -A LOVING CHOICE  even HOMILISTS. We also need  
HA: Humor Artists  Finals are coming up and I can't read without themlll  over the state of Indiana. We want you to have an interest in working  FOR SALE  Pediatrician and pediatric nurse happily married for seven years are  vocal and instrumental MUSICIANS very soon. So please get involved  
Wacky Hour of Sketch Comedy  (219) 272-1778  with disabled children. The camp  hoping to share our love with a  
Sat April 22, 8pm  sessions run from June 11 to  '80 TRIUMPH TR7 Convertible.  child. We love the outdoors, have  <«call Brian x1058 ASAP.  
Hesburgh Library Auditorium  PLEASE RETURN MY JEAN  August 16 with orientation the week  brown w/ tan interior, great  comfortable home and country lake­ 
Proceeds benefit Center for the  JACKET!!  prior . We provide room and board  cond. Near NO. $4,500 OBO  side cottage. Will provide secure,  Don't Forget Sophomores ...  
Homeless. Suggested don. $1  Cropped American Eagle jacket  plus $1 ,000.00. If interested please  277.2684.  loving home with full time mom.  The CLASS SERVICE PROJECT  
Last seen on Tues. 4/11 at Club 23.  call the camp's winter office 312­ Counseling and allowable expens­ at the NE Neighborhood is going  
FREE FOOD AND DRINKS!  I only need Student 10, Detex and  767-CAMP  *@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*  es. Call Kim or Mike at 1-800-469­ strong but can always use new vol­ 
Come to the ISO Picnic this Friday  jacket, you can have the rest Call  LOFT for sale!! I  0559  unteers. Its a lot of fun -give it a try.  
21. The Picnic will take place in  Renee x1435  WANTED:  call Jackie at 4-1 884  We leave at 2:30pm and  
stepan field from 5:00 to 7:00 PM  No questions asked .....  someone to ride home to California  *@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*  3:30pm from Main Circle every  
(Nex1 to Stepan Center). Everyone  or some state close. leaving May  EXPERIENCE THE PHILIPPINES  Wednesday and Friday, and return  
is welcome.  LOST: My sapphire pendant! It's  21st please call ASAP ... I need to  FOOD. MUSIC, & DANCE !!I  at 4:30. Call Brian x1058.  
an oval shaped sapphire, surround­ make plans soon II Call Anne  OAKHILL CONDOMINIUM offered  
ed by diamonds, set in  @X1327.  at $85.900. First floor location.  * * * FIESTANG FILIPINO***  
EXPERIENCE THE PHILIPPINES  gold. I lost it when my necklace  Finished basement with full lavato­ Spend some time during AnTostal  
FOOD, MUSIC. & DANCE Ill  broke, walking from Fischer­ SUMMER JOBS  ry. Two bedrooms and two baths on  Sat, April 29th  .with underpriviledged kids!  
O'hara-Grace to the Law School  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  ground level. Lease back to owner  6 p.m. @ the esc  The Sophomore Class will be  
* * * FIESTANG FILIPINO***  Wednesday afternoon, April 6.  PRESTIGE CHILDREN'S CAMPS  through May, 1995. Call  adopting kids for two hours on FRI­ 
PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE call  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  (616)946-0700.  Tix available at LaFortune Info  DAY APRIL 28 and take them  
Sat, April 29th  me at 4-3953 if you've found it -it  NEAR LAKE PLACID  Desk. NOH. & SOH.  around to play games on the quad  
6 p.m. @ the esc  has special meaning to me.  1-800-786-8373  84 Pymouth. Runs great, Great gas  ANVV\N\IWII\NV\  and see our campus. Don't be  
REWARD offered.  mig. $1000 OBO • 289-1746  embarrased to go bungee running  
Tix available at LaFortune Info  EUROPE $199 o/w  and human bowling this year ­ 
Desk, NOH, & SOH.  ND/SMC student needed to babysit  2-0akhill Condos.  CARIBBEAN/MEXICO 189 r/t  adopt a little sib! To sign up or lor  
~  Found: a watch with a very identifi­ in South Bend for 8 weeks this  3-levels w/lower walkout, 3 BAS,  II you can beat these prices start  more information, call Brian x1058.  
able wristband and face. It had  summer. Must have excellent refer­ 3 Baths -$99,900  your own damn airline!  
*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*  been turned in to Security; go there  ences, love kids and like to have  2 Brs, 2 Baths, spiral staircase  AIR-TECH LTD. 212/219-7000  
......... Clutch the Pearls!!!  to claim it  fun. Call 6-9 pm, 708-524-9386.  & garage -$78,500  info@ aerotech.com  ADOPTION-A choice for you. We  
PIRCILLA Queen of the Desert will  Each unit includes: fireplace,  have lots of hugs and kisses waiting  
be shown tonight ON CAMPUS!  Lost: Set of keys on a soccer key­ HOME FOR FISH-AN OSCAR AND  appliances, pool & clubhouse  and can offer your baby a life full of  
- (wonder who pulled this one off?) It will be shown at 7:30 in  chain. If you know where they are please call4·1456.  SUCKER -FOR SUMMER AND OR NEXT YEAR-WE'RE GRADUAT­ Coldwell Banker-2n-8ooo Ruth Ann Smith-288-8875  000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center  love. fun. & opportunity. Backyard swings, pets, cousins and much  
Montgomery Theater!  ING.  ,J Quick tum around time! II  more. Legal and confidential. We're  
So come join the campiness of the  If anyone found a bright orange  Couches, beds, etc...for sale. All in  ,J Most orders completed  easy to talk to-Mary & Chuck 1-800­ 
travels of three drag queens and la14Jh and be gay!  soccer ball with SHHS on it out on Stepan Field, Monday, April 10th, I  FOR RENT  great condition. Call Rich 273-2474  within 24 hours ,J Free pick-up & delivery  658-8718  
@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*  would love to get it back. It has  will someone please sell next year's  to & from departments  Happy (belated) Birthday TOM  
much personal value, it's been  COLLEGE PARK CONDO:  OC president, mr. greff, a device  ,J Caii631-COPY  WILLIAMS! -Anabel  
$$ FOR TEXTBOOKS$$  through a lot with mel! If you have  For lease, 2 bd., 2 ba. furnished  used for cooling his carbonated  
Are you going 1o read those things  it , or have seen it, please call Meg  unit, Alarm system. Avail. June 1st  evian bottled water .... perhaps a  you can ring my belle  *@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*  
al:Jain? I think not 2323-2342  @ x2913. No questions asked, I  Call: (818)441-1275  fridge of some sort or perhaps a big  (4-1338)  Happy 50th dadll!!lll!  
Pandora's Bks NO Ave & Howard  just want my friend back.  fridge that has a bottled water tap  love, jackie  
**********NOTICE***•**********  on iL... x 1670  SHENANIGANS  *@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*  
ANTIQUE FILLED BED & BREAK­ If you are interested in living at  Annual Spring Concert  
FAST, 35 MIN TO N.D. SPECIAL  LOST -8MALL BURGUNDY  Turtle Creek nex1 year, call Chris  SALE: TWO MAN LOFT-GREAT  8:00 p.m. Tues., April 25th  To the beautiful computer neophyte  
"OBSERVER" RATE $50/$60,  LEATHER CHANGE PURSE­ at 273-1399 as soon as possible.  FOR CAMPUS VIEW, VERY  Washington Hall  stuck on PC 1 (Debartolo) Mol'lday  
FULL BREAKFAST. THE HOME­ REWARD -CALL 1-5707  STURDY,BIG SPACE SAVER  FREE ADMISSION  night at about 11 :30.  
SPUN COUNTRY INN, NAPPA­ ROOMMATE NEEDED  COUCH-JUST 2 YEARS OLDW/  tickets avail. at Lafort. Info. Desk  How about Dinner?  
NEE, 219-773-2034.  WANTED  Sum 95 share Camp View 235/mo all incl. Non/outdoor  PULLOUT BED, GREAT CONDI­TION CALL 277-1704  *@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*  Give me a call @ x1570  
WORD PROCESSING. TAXES.  smoker please. Kathleen 4-1359  PIRCILLA Queen of the Desert is  Kiddo,  
GIFTS. 256-6657  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­Seasonal & full-time employment  Furnished Chicago Sublet: June­ TICKETS  going to be shown tonight! At 7:30 in Montgomery Theater lor FREE!  I told you my family was crazy!! -An lllinios Farmer  
DISCLOSURE  available at National Parks, Forests  Aug, Lincoln Park, 2 blks from lake,  So come and join a spunky crowd  
·,  FRI/SA T 8/1 030  & Wildlife Preserves. Benefits +  el, & bus, large 1 bdrm, $550.  Need a lot of ex1ra graduation tick­ enjoy the travels of three campy  JAZZCON,  
Cushing $2  bonuses! Call: 1-206-545-4804 ext  Andrea 312-554-5959w, 312-404­ ets. x3711  drag queens in Austraila  Although the colors were never  
by SUB  N55843  1863h.  @*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*@*  retired, we had enough trouble with  
4 TIX PAGE/PLANT CHICAGO  those dam hand grenades. To bad  
HANDCRAFTED GIFTS from  Employment opportunity with an  2 BDRM house $520/mo. + util.  Rosemont Horizon  Smile and be Proud!  about Bodyshot, who said 0-1 's  
around the world.  Architectural and Engineering firm  624 Park (Historic District)  5 th  ROW CENTER  and embrace all forms of LOVE!  weren't tools.  
GLOBAL GIFTS at LaFortune Student Center. April 25-28  located in historic Lafayette, Indiana for ARCHITECTURAL GRADUATE  Grad. Students pref. 232-6079  Call w/ best offer John x1478  ···········ooNT Miss··········  -An Amigo  
Room 108 9am-6pm.  with AutoCAD proficiency and 3  COLLEGE PARK CONDO  Tim O'Neill  (The Piano Man!!)  N  
ILOST & FOUND I  months office experience. Resume to H.L Mohler & Associates, P.C., 839 Main Street, Lafayette, IN  2 Bedrooms, 2 Baths Available June 1st-mid-August Call 273-9773  I NEED 2 tickets for Graduation Please call PAUL x3580  in the LaFortune Ballroom lor another Great Antostal performance this Wednesday evening, April 26  Your so cute. stay that way!! 0  
47901  I Need extra GRADUATION TIX  at 9:00pm.  ... and we're clapping ...  
LOST black leather Coach gloves  HOMES FOR RENT  If you can help please call  Your $2.00 donation will benefit a  
lined w/ white shearling lost on Mar  NEAR CAMPUS  Ed @ 634-4204.  local charity. See you there!  Jesus wasn't the only one who fell. ..  
4 between Oak Hill and campus call  AA CRUISE SHIPS HIRING! EARN  232-2595  nice bruise I!  
Amy x4838  BIG $$$ + FREE WORLD TRAVEL  NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!  Yeah, I'm movin' off campus next  
-­ (CARIBBEAN, EUROPE, HAWAII.  ATIENTION: Summer School  Grandpa and Grandma have been  year. 722 St. Louis Street Frank's  watch tor upcoming mustard pies.  
Found: Ring on 4th floor Stanford  ETC.) SUMMER/PERMANENT, NO  Students! Sublet our College Park  waiting 22 yrs. for this. 273-6537.$  gonna have his own little love  
during the weekend of April 1st.  EXPER. NEC. GUIDE. (919)929·  Condo June 1st-Aug. 1st 2BR,  shack.  I saw Wayne handcuffed to the  
Call Scott at 2003 to claim.  4398 ext C 1082  2BA Call 272-6713  2 grad tix needed 289-9420  -Frank  bumper of a State Trooper's car.  

Friday, April 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS 
Zellars 
continued from page 20 
before him was highly benefi­cial. 
"Tom Carter (a former first­round pick of the Washington Hedskins) was back finishing up on his work and he gave me a lot of help," Zellars noted. "He's been through il all and has a lot of lips." 
On top of the advice offered by ex-Irish stars, their perfor­mances in the NFL have to help Zellars and his chances. Pro franchises know what kind of players come out of Notre Dame. 
Zellars sees a reason behind this. 
"They prepare us for the next level here. Everything we do prepares us for the future. It's a pro-like system and we have a definite edge over kids com­ing from other places." 
Now, Zellars is hoping these 

advantages translate onto the draft board. 
"I've talked with Green Bay, Cleveland, the Raiders, new England, Pittsburgh, Miami, San Francisco, the Giants and the Jets. I should go anywhere from 17 on up." 
And will Zellars be seeking the New York City spotlight come Satruday? No. 
"I'm leaving to go back to Pittsburgh to be with my fam­ily." 
FLI ~IDE 
I»OE~ 



IUA._G-0% 
Tickets: $15 for Flip Side tnetnbers, $18 for everyone else, not including dinner. Tickets 
available at the LaFortune Info. Desk! 
Thesl· )1riccs are a nearly 30l~,;1 discl1unt from what TOTO'S and 2nd City wuuld usu,,lly cost. WHAT A DEAL! 
Buses leave from the library circle at 4pm on Friday, April 21! We will be returning at approximately 2:30AM! 
SK RACE FOR EDUCATION 
SAT. APRIL 22, 1995, 9 A.M. 
SIGN-UP AT DINING HALLS, LA FORTUNE, & LAW SCHOOL ON APRIL i2, i3, i9, 20, & 2i, and ON-SITE AT LAW SCHOOL 
RUNNERS GET A FREET-SHIRT (WITH DESIGN BELOW) 




Draft 
continued from page 20 
The third round on will take place on Sunday and, the three most probable players to be grabbed are tight end Oscar McBride, tailback Lee Becton, and defensive lineman Oliver Gibson. Each, though, faces substantial roablocks. 
McBride, who despite never reaching his full potential in South Bend, boasts great size 
-------· -----·--· --­
' y
8td 'N 8rtaktast R~istry ~
1: ........-....,.,.,_
Homu Serving Pannts andFriends of Notn Dame andSL Mary's Collegt 
11y the OPTION/ 
Eltlt>7• "H-A-,ft-H-" 
PIH!CT FOI •••• CIADUATIOI FOOTIALL 
JPV FIISRMAII OIIIITA'UOJ IIUIIIOIIS 
Wilma L Behnke 219-291·7153 
page 13 
and blocking abilities. However, the presence of a glut of talent at the tight end slot may hinder McBride.Becton, who shined in 1993, not only was hampered by injury during the season, just as importantly for his draft status, was slowed in the off-season. Unable to post a decent 40 time, the fear about Becton's lack of speed will hurt. Entering his senior campaign, Gibson's hopes of an NFL career had to be dim, but a strong final season may have raised enough eyebrows to get him drafted. On the small side for an NFL defensive lineman, Giibson playmaking ability and quickness may merit a late round selection. 
Defensive teammates Justin Goheen and Germaine Holden may be casualties of the short­ened seven round draft, but may actually benflt, as they will have the chance to stick with the club of thier choice as a free agent. 

CUS tlln<i TtlfftTRf 
S2 fD/'\IS~Ol 
&00 d 10:.30 PI'\ 
IDftl d SftTURDftl nl<iNT 
mightbe 
.Ia 
candy there~ 
SI1JDfNf UNION BOARD 
THE NEW YORK nMES, Janet Maslin 
"TREMENDOUS FuN! ExHILARATJNG! 
Awork of blazing originality! Bravor 
NEW YORK MAGAZINE, David Denby IIECSTA71CALLY EtmRTAIN/NG! One of the great wild rides of recent cinema!" 
ROWNG STONE, Peter Tnwers 
11/ND/SPUTABLY GREAT! FEROCIOUS FuN! The action siules! The acting is dynamite!" 


CINEMA AT THE SNITE 

FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:00 and 9:45 
.... 


Friday April21, 1995
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
Pun 


SMCTOSTAl'S SHOWlNG OF ROCKY HORROR PlCTORE SHOW 
-
continued from page 20 
his aggressiveness is one of his strengths. "The attacking game is a strength. I get to the net as soon as possible." 
Pun says the team's top priority now is to prepare for regionals, and Bayliss feels when Pun is on top of his game, he can help the team advance to the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"When he hits with authority, he's the best player on the team," Bayliss complimented. "He needs to be more consis­tent. Every match is an adven­ture." 
Pun says he is happy with his play this year. "''ve improved a lot, and am playing at a different level this year. I want to make a lot more improve­ments, though." 
"I need to work on footwork and consistency on my first serve," Pun said. Pun plans to work on his game this summer when he will be staying here. 
"I can use the time to work on a lot of things. I want to make the best of my senior year here." 
And he won't be counted out, 
either. 
I ERASMUS BOOKS---~ 
• 
Used books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25.000 Hardback and Paperhack Books in stock 

• 
Out-Of-Print Search Service 


-$1.00 
• Appra1sals large and small Open noon to six Tuesdl'y thr'>ugh Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
[219) 232-844;1 

-Morning Glory def. Mr. Hand 
21-8  
-Prisoners  of  Gravity  def.  
Unhealthy Stool 21-10  
-Suave  ltos  def.  The  11th  
Commandment ... 21-3  

-Diamondbacks def. JB, get your tongue back in yer mouth ... 21-5 
-Team Lunkers def. 5 Pianists Who Like to Shoot and Score 21-15 
-Potash def. Team 242 21-10 -Big Chief and the Little Indians def. Fig Newtons 21-11 
-Yo, Yo, Yo: Tell Your Dog to Shut Up def. Pleasing in Every Way 21-10 
-Bob and 4 Other Guys ... def. A Love Brolar and Her 4 Gigolos 21-13 
-Team 106 def. Team 151 21-12 
-Brother Love's Travelling Sal­vation Show def. Dan Hilson's Copacabana Girls 21-1 0 
-The O'Malley 29'ers def. Goin' 
:··~ENIORS ••• SENIORS ••• SENIORS .•• SENIORS ••• SENIORS ••• SENIORS ••• 
GOING TO A NE!~ ClTY? CAREER 6 PLACEMENT SERVICES CAIJ HHP YOU FlNV OTHER N.V. GRAVS GOING TO TilE SAME 

to Moe's and Comin' Home Loaded 21-1 
-Our Center Drank Urine def. Sons of Thunder 21-11 
-Jolly Tombskies def. Don't Wave Your Dick Addis 21-15 -5 the Hard Way def. Catholics 
and Heretics 21-6 
-We're the Truth, and You Can't Handle the Truth def. Go West ... 21-6 -Cherry and the Grumpy Old Men def. Dr. Teeth and His Electric Mayhem Band 21-5 -Phloam def. We're Off Like a Dress on Prom Night 21-8 -Team 38 def. Morning Wood and His Lumberjacks 21-4 -Sweeter Than Candy def. Deplorable FG Percentage 21­
3 
-At Least We Draw Rim def. Deez Have Been Together ... 21-14 
-The Linebacker Bouncers ... def. Easy First Round 
Op~onent 21-13 -Team 202 def. Roger the Shrubber ... 21-6 -Attitude Adjusters def. Team Ditka 21-16 -Your Momma's Favorite 5-some def. Banana Slugs 21-9 
-Duh Plimpton's Fat, Elusive Roosters def. Four Play With Matt21-7 
-Five Players to be Named Later def. Rollerbunzz 21-11 
-The Knights Who Say "Ni" def. The Sega Playing Slammers 21-16 -White Chocolate Thunder def. Hoops! Missed Again! 21-7 -Heck, Even We Can Score ... def. Pookie, Maddog and 
Everyone needs an alternative... 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Urban Outfitters 

• 
Novelty T's 


• 
Handcrafted Silver and Beaded Jewelry 


"Alternative Clothing for Today's Woman" 
Layaway and Alterations Available 
THE STYLE 




CO.,INC. 

687-9123 • 1912 S. I I th in Niles 
in the newly remodeled Belle Plaza 2-1 /2 Mi. North of State Line 

Friends 21-15 -The Dirt Stars def. Fresh Coconut Love Juice 21-1 0 -Shecky and Jackie and 3 Men Called e def. Sharks 21-5 -Let the Juice Loose def. We Ain't 1st Class ... 21-14 -Bring Out the Gimp def. Good Eats 21-9 
-Paul O'Linney Fan Club def. 5 Guys Who Don't Have Far to Go Down 21-11 -Quivering Epid def. Sunshine Groovies by forfiet -~ackwoods Boyz def. Springfield Elementary by forfi­et -Genesis def. Morris Inn by forfiet 
Hours 

M-F I 0-8 
Sat 10-6 Sun 12-4 

Friday April 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

The Observer/ Scott Mendenhall Randy Colley and the high-powered Notre Dame offense look to keep putting big numbers up at Massachusetts this weekend. 


T 0 W N 

NEWLY REMODELED 
•
NEW CARPETS 

• 
NEW TILE FLOORS 

• 
COMPLETE REPAINTING OF EVERY UNIT 


AND MUCH MORE I 

• LACROSSE 





UMass big test for Irish 
By DAVE TREACY 
Sports Writer 
After a brief respite in Moose Krause stadium, it's time for the 11th ranked squad to head back east. 
Also, after an easy contest against Air Force, another top fifteen team will be waiting in Amherst, Massachusetts. 
The UMass Minutemen, ranked 14th in the USILA poll, feature a strong offense and an underrated defense. 
"They are a very offensive­oriented team. They run at­tackmen in their midfield, giv­ing them a strong attack. Our defense will have to play well," 
LAFAYETTE SQUARE 
H 0 M E S 
ADVANTAGES WE OFFER ·FOUR AND FIVE BEDROOM TOWNHOMES 
·WASHER AND DRYER IN EVERY APARTMENT 
·DISHWASHER 
•
CENTRAL AIR CONDITIONING 

•
ADT SECURITY SYSTEMS • 24-HOURMAINTENANCE 


<>NOW OFFERING SOME FURNISHED UNITS<> UNITS STILL AVAILABLE 
coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
Placing attackmen in the mid­field gives the Minutemen a possible advantage in the Irish zone. They also have great ball-movement, which will be something Notre Dame must limit. 
"We're going to try to cut down their passing and pres­sure them into isolation situa­tions, which gives us the chance to use our defense more effectively," Corrigan added. 
This type of offense puts pres­sure on the longsticks and de­fensive middies. Fortunately, these lines have done an out­standing job of handling oppos­ing offenses all season. 
"We have good match-ups on defense. If we can catch them between lines with physical play and hustle, we should be able to limit their opportuni­ties," said co-captain and de­fenseman Bill Gallagher. 
Putting attackers on the mid­field line does put the Minutemen in a big disadvan­tage defensively. Midfielders must have a combination of of­fensive and defensive skills, as well as the stamina to play both halves of the field. The Irish will look to take advantage of the potential defensive inexpe­rience in the UMass midfield, especially in the transition game. 
The Irish offense has been dominating as of late. In the last two games, they have scored 31 goals, led by Randy Colley's consecutive nine-point performances. The offensive game plan will once again fea­ture ball-control, coupled with the patience to wait for the best opportunity, not the first. 
The Minuteman offense should give Alex Cade the op­portunity to showcase his skills in the crease. Having already faced several powerful oppo­nents, Cade should be prepared for UMass. 
"Against Massachusetts, not any one match-up will be para­mount. This game, more than any other this season, will require a team effort," Corrigan concluded. 

tRcpluud~ 
MEXICAN FOOD 
115 Dixleway North (U.S. 31&33) • Roseland, IN 46637 
NOW OPEN 
Serving the best Mexican food in Michiana. Everything made from scratch! 
Hours: Mon.-Fri. II:00-9:00 Sat. 4:00-10:00 
Dine In -Carry Out 


273-1500 
rGraiili Openinispecia1sl
I. Taco Dinner l2. Burrito Dinner (all dinners served w/ rice and beans) I 
p. Enchilada Dinner I 
1 All Dinner Specials • Dine-In or Carry Out 1 

L__~~:~N~ ~~:_c~~~~ _J 

ARCH  543  01  0889  COTH  440  01  2946  FIN  360  04  1270  LAW  633  01  2990  PHIL  S18  01  3803  THEO  265  01  0779  
DART  ARCH ARCH  543 565  04 01  2731 27S6  COTH CSE  480 332  01 01  2138 2901  FIN FIN  360 360  OS 06  1271 3431  LAW LAW  679 69S  01 01  3046 4106  PHYS PHYS  221L 221L  02 04  1681 2764  THEO THEO  266 270  02 01  0778 3974  
BA  363  01  09SO  CSE  332L  01  0840  FIN  361  OJ  1272  LAW  69S  02  1420  PHYS  221L  OS  1682  THEO  270  02  397S  
CLOSED SI:CTIQ~S AS QE  BA  363  02  11S1  CSE  332L  04  04S1  FIN  361  02  1273  LAW  695  03  1421  PHYS  421  01  0616  THEO  283  01  3324  
Z:IH!l'.M.'Ja0L2S  BA  363  04  09S1  CSE  413  01  0491  FIN  361  03  1276  LAW  695  04  1422  PLS  381  03  1790  THEO  287  01  2377  
BA  363  05  09S2  ECON  225T  07  4034  FIN  370  01  1277  LAW  695  OS  1423  PLS  443  02  2420  THEO  288  01  2376  
ACCT  371  01  082S  BA  363  06  0261  ECON  31S  01  4055  FIN  380  04  2875  MARK  3SO  01  1431  PLS  481  02  0785  THEO  290B  01  3977  
ACCT  371  03  0827  BA  391  01  0805  ECON  410  01  4056  FIN  460  03  3434  MARK  350  02  1432  PSY  211A  01  1796  THEO  40S  01  3979  
ACCT  371  04  0824  BA  391  02  0716  ECON  421  01  2604  FIN  470  01  1284  MARK  370  01  1433  PSY  342  01  1798  THTR  276  54  9754  
ACCT  372  02  054S  BA  392  02  2352  ECON  484  01  3032  FIN  473  01  1285  MARK  370  02  1434  PSY  342  02  1839  THTR  276  56  97S6  
ACCT  380  01  0830  BA  392  04  2350  ECON  485  01  2136  GOVT  243T  05  2510  MARK  384  01  1436  PSY  355  OJ  0530  
ACCT  380  02  2879  BA  490  02  0953  EE  222T  01  1135  GOVT  491G  01  0484  MARK  476  01 ·. 1437  PSY  357  01  2411  
ACCT  380  03  3428  BIOS  304L  02  0965  EE  344T  02  1148  GOVT  491M 01  3896  MATH  102  01  0466  PSY  359  01  3919  
ACCT  380  04  3429  BIOS  304L  03  2239  EE  430  01  4264  GSC  332  01  2948  MATH  325  01  1488  PSY  423  01  3923  
ACCT  475  01  2932  BIOS  344L  01  0967  ENGL  200  02  3533  HESB  491  01  3221  MATH  325  03  0618  PSY  454  01  0648  
ACCT  475  02  0603  BIOS  401L  02  2836  ENGL  200  03  3534  HIST  307A  01  4152  MATH  325  04  0617  PSY  455  01  3924  CLASSES IHAI WILL  
AERO  450  01  2925  BIOS  420  01  2831  ENGL  301  01  3537  HIST  311A  01  3228  ME  331L  01  0380  PSY  462  01  2330  REQl'E~ AI Z;IH!l'.M.  
AFAM  329  01  3063  BIOS  420L  01  2827  ENGL  301  02  3538  HIST  312  01  4153  ME  331L  02  0379  PSY  488B  01  4005  IJalL2.5  
AFAM  359  01  3461  BIOS  420L  02  2826  ENGL  311  02  0610  HIST  326A  01  3622  ME  331L  04  0377  RLST  235  44  9544  
AFAM  384E  01  3462  CAPP  216  01  2536  ENGL  316G  01  3102  HIST  353  01  3626  ME  339T  02  2923  RLST  242  58  9558  ACCT  371  04  0824  
AFAM  42'j  01  3108  CAPP  303  01  3064  ENGL  319A  01  2937  HIST  353A  01  3627  MGT  411  01  0606  RLST  393  68  9568  ACCT  380  02  2879  
AFAM  4S5  01  3463  CAPP  331  01  0579  ENGL  319A  02  2939  HIST  401  01  3237  MI  334  01  3765  ROFR  371  01  2971  ANTH  382  01  3491  
AFAM  494  01  3466  CAPP  361  /!'!  1013  ENGL  320  01  3540  HIST  414  01  4164  MI  486  01  3776  ROFR  413  01  3807  BA  363  04  0951  
AMST  314G  01  3876  CAPP  368  01  0540  ENGL  334  01  3541  HIST  414A  01  4165  MI  525  01  3780  ROSP  103  06  1949  BA  363  05  0952  
AMST  319E  02  3470  CAPP  380  01  2533  ENGL  392B  01  3546  HIST  455A  01  3642  MUS  220  01  2456  ROSP  328  01  1961  BIOS  420  01  2831  
AMST  354H  01  3873  CAPP  395  01  2530  ENGL  415B  01  3549  HIST  456A  01  3247  MUS  221  01  1990  ROSP  328  02  0133  ENGL  301  02  3538  
AM~'T  367H  01  3471  CE  331  01  1017  ENGL  416  01  4080  HIST  458  01  3078  MUS  226  01  1574  soc  220  01  1978  ENGL  319A  01  2937  
AMST  368H  01  3079  CE  331  02  4257  ENGL  416F  01  4081  HIST  458A  01  3080  PHIL  222  01  0649  soc  300  01  0521  ENGL  433B  01  3349  
AMST  387H  01  2978  CHEG  355T  02  2905  ENGL  422  01  3555  HIST  461A  01  3644  PHIL  232  01  3940  soc  303  01  3065  FIN  360  02  1268  
AMST  398E  01  3474  CHEG  459  02  1039  ENGL  427E  01  3556  HIST  466  01  4170  PHIL  239  02  4209  soc  332  01  2947  FIN  361  01  1272  
AMST  409E  01  3476  CHEM  201  01  0291  ENGL  42BC  01  2561  HIST  474A  01  2979  PHIL  242  01  2261  soc  370  01  2037  FIN  361  03  1276  
AMST  456H  01  3246  CHEM  201  02  0510  ENGL  433B  01  3349  HIST  495  16  4172  PHIL  243  01  3941  soc  430  01  3158  HIST  307A  01  4152  
AMST  457  01  3478  CHEM  201  04  1062  ENGL  4678  01  3564  HIST  495  58  4173  PHIL  246  01  1652  soc  441  01  3831  MI  334  01  3765  
AMST  478H  01  3480  CHEM  321L  02  3939  ENGL  469  01  3566  liPS  320  01  2133  PHIL  247  01  3283  soc  448  01  3832  PHIL  222  01  0649  
AMST  522  01  3483  COCT  207  01  4128  ENGL  492  01  3S71  IIPS  410  01  4068  PHIL  254  01  3943  THEO  200  02  2116  PHIL  261  01  1653  
ANTH  310  01  3486  COCT  425  01  3915  ENGL  494  01  3572  liPS  422  01  3763  PHIL  256  01  3944  THEO  200  04  4226  PHIL  261  03  394S  
ANTH  328  01  2975  COMM  103  03  9703  ENGL  495A  01  3573  UPS  561  01  4072  PHIL  261  01  1653  THEO  242  01  3969  PHIL  264  03  4099  
ANTH  329  01  3061  COMM  103  05  9705  ENGL  496A  01  357S  LAW  S91A  01  0711  PHIL  261  02  0531  THEO  243T  01  2320  PSY  355  01  0530  
ANTH  382  01  3491  COMM  103  07  9707  ENGL  496E  01  3576  LAW  601  01  1398  PHIL  261  03  3945  THEO  243T  02  2319  THEO  264  01  3085  
ANTH  389  01  3493  COTH  2855  02  3521  FIN  231  02  0601  LAW  631A  01  1412  PHIL  264  01  3946  THEO  250  01  0757  THEO  283  01  3324  
ANTH  390  01  3153  COTH  310  01  4084  FIN  347  02  2871  LAW  6318  01  1413  PHIL  264  02  3947  THEO  260  02  3972  THEO  288  01  2376  
ANTI!  431  01  3495  COTH  435A  01  3525  FIN  360  02  1268  LAW  631C  01  1414  PHIL  264  03  4099  THEO  261  01  3318  
ARCH  443  03  0128  COTH  436I  01  3526  FIN  360  03  1269  LAW  631D  01  14J5  PHIL  269  01  2452  THEO  264  01  3085  

• SOFTBAll 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 21, 1995 



Injured Irish to face LaSalle, Cleveland State 
pitcher in the Kobata mold. Consequently, the Irish defense has been fielding a lot more balls. Eight errors turned wins over Loyola and Ohio State into losses. 
However, much of those errors are a result of aggressive play. 
"We have to step up," Miller said. "We don't have strikeouts so we have to make the plays. Our defense has gotten a lot more experience and confi­dence. If we can get our pitch­ers healthy, we'll be better for 
it... Notre Dame doesn't have to worry about Jennifer Giampaolo. The freshman out­
fielder has thrown out five run­ners at the plate this season. Her acrobatic catches have op­ponents banging their heads against a wall-something Giampaolo's tried. At one point this season, she blacked out af-
London $289 Paris $~39 Frankfurt $!199 Madrid $319 Tokyo $440 Rome $3~9 
F..~.cr..=n:Jy~~"·~?r:d~"3~
!:res subject to chong• ondlor ovolloblllty. 
~-­
1•800•KOUNCIL 
•800•226•86 

By NEIL ZENDER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame softball team is beat up. Starting pitchers Terri Kobata and Joy Battersby are hurting. Today, they're hoping to take their frustration out by beating up the LaSalle Explorers. Over Easter Break, the Irish played eight games in seven days. Today, at 3:30 
p.m. at Ivy Field Notre Dame is looking to bury the past week ­and LaSalle. 
The injuries to Kobata and Battersby depleted the Irish rotation, but reliever Kelly Nichols rose to the occasion. Kobata is battling with an ag­gravating hip flexor that went into spasms in Notre Dame's fif­teen-inning loss to Loyola. 
She returned to action on Tuesday against Ohio State, and with only two pitches in her arsenal allowed only one run. Still, she is questionable for today. 

Battersby is battling a bad back with cause unknown. She has pitched only three innings in the past thirteen days and probably will need more prac­tice before she's ready for some action in a game. 
With Kobata and Battersby down. freshman reliever Kelly Nichols and her 1.86 ERA moved in from the bullpen, winning three of five starts last week. 
Against Northern Illinois on Saturday she .fired two com­plete games. The only run she allowed was unearned. 
Nichols also received help from Kara Brandenburger who alternated innings with her Monday against Illinois­Chicago. After missing last sea­son with a shoulder injury, she showed marked improvement on Monday. 
Neither Nichols nor Brandenburger is the power 
.k.~ GREAT \YALL 

Voted #l Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993 
Szechwan•Cantonese•American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 days 
Banquet rooms 
Sunday Buffet Brunch-Every Sunday 
available for 
$8.95 for Adults 
up to 200 
$3.95 for Children under 10 

Kevin is now 19 and waiting for calls at 1934 
Happy Birthday! 
from Santa Fe 
1994·95 JOHN M. DUGGAN SERIES 
Gus 
J~
·orctano 


oance 

ICOQO 
·unaffected, exhilarating and pure jazz· 
-Baltimore Evening Sun 
SATURDAY, APRIL 22, 8 P.M. O'LAUGHUN AUDITORIUM 
TICKETS $8* ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Discounts available for senior citizens, groups, SMC-ND community and students. Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's box office, located in O'Laughlin, 9-5 Mon.-Fri. Discover, Visa. MasterCard at 219/284-4626. 

/'\ORfftU CfnTtR 
fOR ll1t <f1 RT S 
ter crashing into the wall mak­ing a catch. 
LaSalle comes into this after­noon's game sporting a 20-22 overall record, and in seventh place in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference. 
The Explorers will feature freshman outfielder Megan Andros and her .326 batting average, along with sophomore hurler Lori Congdon (10-7, 3.84 ERA) 
"They're the type of team 

that'll come in here and play great," Miller said. "They aren't ranked nationally, but they'll jump on you." 
On Saturday, the Irish will host Cleveland State who cur­rently holds first place in the MCC. They hold a 24-6 record, 6-0 in the MCC. 
Tenille Whiteside leads the team with a .406 average and 41 RBis. Sophomore hurler Amy Kyler has a 14-2 record, with a 0.75 ERA. 
In honor of the graduating Seniors 
Prelaw Society Members Pizza Party & LSAT Application Review Tuesday, April 25 7:00p.m. 

Foster Room of LaFortune 


How Much Can You Eat? 
RSVP by Monday, April 24 by 5:00p.m. or call Coleen@ 631-9468 
Friday, April 21, 1995 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NHL 
Flyers clinch spot in playoffs 
"It's done," Lindros said. "It was the Devils on Saturday clinches our goal at the start of the season, their first division title since 1986­PIIILADELPHIA but it's been refocused. We've got 87. 
Eric Lindros was a 16-year-old to keep improving." Ron Hextall, who was traded at player on the St. Michael's Junior B Lindros scored on the power-play the beginning of the Flyers' streak high school team the last time the 59 seconds into the second period of missing the playoffs and then Philadelphia Flyers went to the to tie it 1-1, and Mikael Renberg reacquired at the start of this sea­playoffs. scored the winner son said the team has had but one 
The NHL scoring leader helped The Atlantic Division-leading focus all season: the playoffs. the Flyers to a 2-1 victory over the Flyers won their eighth straight Before the latest playoff drought, New York Islanders on Thursday game and stretched their lead over the Flyers had advanced to the night, sending Philadelphia to the the second-place New Jersey Devils playoffs every season starting in playoffs for the first time since to seven points. A Flyer win over 1973. 1989. 
The top 3 reasons to start your Kaplan 
. ,;t> ~ ......J .:.}·i . ' 
"' ~I.J ":N .~-~











MCAT 

PREP 

<ta.stfe 8or a(e
Lve like a King or Queen in your own imported marble castle. With two 
PriceA better BANG for yourGet a head start on the Increasescompetition! 

buck-more time to study 

May 1, 1995
Start studying now! 
with Kaplan! 

Summer classes start June 26, 1995 


KAPLAN 
The answer to the test question 
1-800-KAP-TEST 
balconies overlooking huge courtyard on 3/4 of a beautift.Jly landscapt-'{1 acre. Walking distance to Notre Dame. Raised Rancb with private entrance and lower level walk-out. Total of 3,876 sq. ft.! Feature 4 bed­rooms, including large 31x23 round bedroom, 2 full fireplaces, 2 full kitchens, 3-1/2 baths including SLmken tub. Imported marble tlrrougbout the bouse. Extra large meeting room, intercom, security systems, & all appliances included. Unique and one of a kind, must be seen to be appreci­ated. Priced way below market value at $149,000. Extra 3/4 vacant lot also available. 
Call Ted, Re/Max 100 Reality at 256-7169 or wiromad 235-3786 

4 Goon REASONS To CALL THE HuDDLE FoR DELIVERY 

r ----------, r----------,
$5 __DEAL $4 DEAL
I I I I Any Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $5 I 
Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4 

I I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Prize 

Now, That's a Deal! Call 1-6902
I I Ca/11-6902 
COUPON EXJ>IRES 5/30/95 


-1 I -1I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95




1-----------1----------­
S1 0 DEAL DOUBLE DEAL
I I I I 
I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item and a 2-/iter Coke Product Only $10 I I Pizzas for Only $9 I Ca/11-6902 Call1-6902

I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95 COUPON EXPIRES 5/30/95
.J .J
L L 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902 
We'll meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 21, 1995 
• BASEBAll 
Another rainout at Eck 
With joy and thanksgiving the Congregation of Holy Cross and the families of ]ames Kieran Foster, C.S.C. John Albert Herman, C.S.C. announce the ordination of our brothers and sons for service to the People of God 
Through the ancient Christian signs of the laying on of hands and the prayer of the Church the Office of Presbyter 
will be conferred by 

the Most Reverend 

James H. MacDonald, C.S.C., D.D.  
Rev. James K. Foster, C.S.C., M.D. Evergreen Park IL University ofNotre Dame '77 BS <Biology)University_ of Illinois '81 M.D. University of Notre Dame '94 M. Div., (Theology)  Archbishop of St. John's, Newfoundland  Rev. John A. Herman, C.S.C. Trenton, MI University of Detroit '88 BS (Engineering) University of Notre Dame '94 M. Div., (Theology)  

On Saturday, April22, 1995 at 1:30 p.m. (EST) Basilica of the Sacred Heart Universit.:1 of Notre Dame Notre Dame, Indiana 


Here's our P..itch. 
THE MEAL DEAL 
• &·inch Tuna Sub, Chips, Small Soft Drink 
-~-$3----4--9--:: ~--I ­





The Observer/ Brian Hardy 
Sophomore Mike Amrhein didn't get a chance to continue his recent power surge as last night's game with Valparaiso was rained out. 
By MEGAN McGRATH Sports Writer 
April showers bring May flowers, but they also bring rained-out games for the Notre Dame baseball team. 
Thursday night's match-up with Valparaiso was postponed due to inclement weather. 
Hopefully, the cool weather will not effect Irish bats, which have been the warmest thing in the Michiana area of late. 
Senior captain Craig DeSensi has been a major catalyst on offense. The first base­man is third on the team in batting with a .383 average. His 55 runs scored are first on the squad and his 30 runs batted in are third. 
But more impressive is the 19-game hit­ting streak DeSensi extended Wednesday against Purdue with a 2-4 effort. Since moving to the lead-off spot in the line-up, DeSensi has hit in every game. 
. "I try not to think about the streak," DeSensi says. "I just try to take each day as it comes and do what I can for the team. If I keep hitting that means I'm doing well." 
The second and third men in the Notre Dame (26-12, 6-1) batting order have also been productive recently. 
Sophomore Scott Sollmann's .408 average leads the team. Sollmann saw his hitting streak end at 13 games against Punlue. The left-fielder belted his first career home run Tuesday night against Duquesne. 
Mike Amrhein is right behind Sollmann in the order and in average leaders, at .385. Amrhein has hit a home run in each of Notre Dame's last two games. The sopho­more third baseman is second on the team with 49 RBI. 
In order to pick up another game, the Irish will play a double-header today against Indianapolis at 5 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
The Greyhounds are 16-33 overall, and just 3-19 in road games. Kris Sims leads Indianapolis with a .379 average. 
This weekend, MCC rival Illinois-Chicago comes to town for a pair of twin-bills. The Flames are 17-17 and 4-4 in conference play. 
Action begins Saturday and Sunday at noon. 
F.riday, April 21, 1995 The Observer· TODAY page 19 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 
DIAMO~t:>BACK 
RArrt.eR

4121 
CALVIN AND HOBBES 


MONT~ P'tlTHON 
BILL WATTERSON 

\IS PRt.m 1-\I>..RI) 10 1-\\1 TW<I MAGIC. N\JMBER Of APPRoPRII\TE.L'< \lAGUE, M\LDL'{ S£R\OIJS, BIJ\ l'l.OT 0\.JI\'C. INORR\SOI"'E. S'<lv\I'TOI"'S. 
I \11\t-.IK l SI-\OULI) Sl/>.'< 
1-\0ME. FROM SCI-\OOL. l:'JE: GO\ t>. SOR£ ffiRPf>.T, ~~ EAR A.~E., A. STOMf>.CI-\ ~CI-\t., l"t-\ S£.1:\t-IG SI'C.TS, 
N-\O n11 D11.Z:t 
6 

ALLOW f"\E. ~ TO INTRO­DUCE. LOUD HOWARD 
I 
CROSSWORD 
53 AnglicanACROSS 30 Acerbity headdress32 Kvass1 Calendar mo. 

54 "The Secret 4 Up Garden" Tonyingredient 
33 Three-person

9 Jerome Kern's winner Daisy 
card game 

"They-­
55 Rote procedure 34 Kansas City Believe Me" paper 58"--We All?" 

14 Bikini part 36 Boat bigwig, 59 Clerics16 Word with city briefly
or circle so Peevish 39 Winter driving 
17 Copy 61 Au fait
needtB It's often btd 62 Comment of 

42 In-(stuck)

19 Kenilworth and surprise Boston, e.g. 44 Cranesbills 
DOWN

20 Engenders 46 Explain anew 22 Abbreviated 48 Brain-wave 
1 Filled to version record, 
overflowing 23 Blvds. familiarly 2 Four-time 2!1 Ocular socket 49 Louse eggs 
Oscar-winning film scorer

28 Dicker 51 Springer and 29 Takeout sign Sussex, e.g. 3 Property seizures 4 Unfixed ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 5 Jerk 
6 Benaderet of "Petticoat Junction" 
7 Craftsman a High schooler 9 Logbook 
10 "Without a doubt!" locale) 
11 Black Sea 28 Seed coverings feeder 
31 Pakistani 12With open garment palms. maybe 
35 Make up 13 Fiduciary 
36 Toddler's safety 15 Cutters 
item 
21 Swelling cause 37 Set the stage 

... fORTUNATt.LY (.JI-\"T DID I CONVINCED I 5AY THAT 1-\11'\ TO TAKE MY SOUNDED LASER PRINTER LI\<.E ''TELL INSTEAD . f'\E. ABOUT 
,_.:..........__YOUF\ DAY". 
\ 

45 Took major Curie steps 57 Theater group, 47 Full of fuzz informally 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 

HN McPHER5)0N -4·21 


As someone who can never remember names, ... Roger relied on his new lnsta-Name to bail him out of awkward social situations. 
•'OF INTEREST 
Humor Artists (HA) Comedy Show: Come see an allwnew hour of comedy {sketches, songs, and some im­prov. ) April 22. at 8 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Suggest donation, $1. Proceeds will bene­fit the homeless shelter. 
The Dome Yearbook will be distributing the 1995 book Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday to ALL under­graduates. The distribution wlll take place in 108 t.aFortune, from 12·5 p.m. 
Nlghtlme trip to Chicago, is being sponsored by Flip Side for April 21·23. Participants will go to the Hard Rock Cafe for dinner, see Second City. adn do dancing afterwards. Tickets are available at La Fortune Information desk. Call Mary (634-4904) or John (634· 1410) with any questions. 
'if'• MENU 
Notre Dame NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL 
ltr Chee'~e Sticks  Shrimp Poppers  .  
Roast Pork Loin  Broccoli Casserole  
Cod in Salsa  Turkey Steak Sandwich  
,,,~~~'M:ar?~  
Grilled Halibut  
i!!f Chicken Cordon Bleu  

Beef and Bean Chimichangas 

Have something to say? Use The Observer classifieds. 


50 Discern 52 100 centesimi 53 Trading center 56 French writer 





• 

.... 


SPORTS 
page 20 Friday, April 21, 1995 
•IRIIIR 
Some dreams realized, others dashed 
Zellars looking for first-round bid 
By TIM SHERMAN 

Associate Sports Editor 
Anyone who saw Ray Zellars·· remarkable bursts against Purdue and Stanford this season could tell you the man could run. More than likely though, NFL wouldn't listen. They're the kind of people who need more proof than what they see on the field, they need to see it on the stopwatch. 
..._ For many, the almighty winter combine, held in Indianapolis can make or break a player. Odds are they made Zellars. At least the stopwatch did. "I ran a 4.49 in the 40 (yard dash)," Zelllars said. . "That's a lot faster than a lot of tailbacks. Now, the scouts think I can play some halfback." This speed and subsequent versatility has given Zellars' draft status a significxant boost. Used only as a traditional fullback for the Irish, Zellars quick­ness should enable an NFL team to use him in a one­back set, handling the ball a lot more. Projected by many as a second or third-round pick before the winter workouts, the surehanded Pittsburgh native is now a very possible late first-round selection. ­"I'm hoping to fall into the first round," Zellars said. "That would defmitely be nice. I really don't have a preference as to what team. My philosophy is the sooner the better." Obviously, a number of factors have contributed to the developement of Zellars in terms of his draftabli­ty, but he cites one in particular. "We have an excellent strength and conditioning program here. Jerry Scmidt (ex-coach) was great. The drills we did here were very similar to the ones the pros wanted us to do. We were very well pre­pared because it was the stuff we did all the time here." In addition to the conditioning Zellars received at -Notre Dame, the advice of those who have come 
see ZELLARS I page 13 


The Observer/ Jake Peters 

Ray Zellars is hoping that he will be a first-round pick in Saturday's NFL Draft in New York . 
Irish draft hopefuls few and far between 
By TIM SHERMAN Associate Sports Editor 

The first two rounds of the NFL draft will occur this Saturday in New York City but the Notre Dame domination that has occured the past two years will be absent. 
With ten former Irish stars being selected in the first two rounds of the 1993 and 1994 drafts, previ­ous Aprils in the New York Marquis Marriot could have very well passed as Bridget's or CJ's. Not this year. 
The obvious dirth of talent on this past season's 6­5-1 squad will be very apparent as only two Notre Dame stars, in all liklihoodwill, be selected to join an NFL club in the first two rounds. 
In general, it will be a disappointing year. Fortunately, Bobby Taylor and Ray Zellars will not share in the disappoinment. 
Both are certain to have their fates determined by Saturday night, as Taylor has been a first-round lock for almost two years and Zellars may have ran him­self into the first round with a standout effort at the combine. 
"There's no doubt Zellars moved up significantly after that (combine performance)," said draft guru Mel Kiper, Jr. 
Taylor, too, has the pyshical skills to compete on the next level. With decent speed, great size and leaping ability, the only real weakness of the junior is his tackling abilities. 
Still, the scouts see enough potential to overlook this correctable deficiency. 
''I'd say he'll probably go anywhere between 17 and 28," Kiper, Jr. projected. "He could go higher depending on a team's needs. 
Taylor, along with Zellars appear to have a decent idea of where they're going. The same cannot be said of other potential Irish draftees. 
.see DRAFT I page 13 
• MEN'S TENNIS 



Pun keen on comebacks 

ByB.J. HOOD 
Sports Writer 
Never count out Jason Pun. 

_..... It appeared as though Northwestern's Alex Witt was about to put the finishing touch­es on a victory over Pun in early April. Witt had a 5-1 lead in the third set, and it looked like he would help the Wildcats avoid a shutout. However, Mike Sprouse, Pun's partner at number one doubles, knew better than to count out Pun. "This is so typical of Pun," ~mmented Sprouse. "He's always in the third set." Sure enough, Pun was start­ing to mount a comeback. He had survived a match point in the second set, and now he would win six straight games for the match. It was just another 7-0 men's tennis victory for the Irish-and another three set victory for Pun. Pun was trailing 5-1 in 
• 
Friday, April21 ND Softball vs. LaSalle (2) 3:30p.m. ND Men's Tennis at MCC Championships ND Baseball vs. Indianapolis (2) 5 p.m. 

the third set against Illinois ear­lier in the season. And, once again, Pun rallied for the win. 
Of course, live by the sword, die by the sword. Tuesday against Ball State, Pun trailed Alex Texeira in the third set by a score of-you guessed it-5-1. Pun would win three straight games, and it appeared he was poised for a patented Jason Pun comeback. Unfortunately, Texeira would hold him off for a 6-4 victory. 
Pun's type of matches can lead to exciting victories, but Coach Bob Bayliss would also enjoy some straight set victo­ries. "Before he came, I had a full head of hair," Bayliss said jokingly. "He seems to have a knack of making the easy matches close, and taking the tough players to the limit." 
When asked why his matches went to three sets often, Pun responded, "I don't know, maybe the tough competition." 
Saturday, April 22 SMC Track at Elmhurst 11 a.m. ND Baseball vs. UIC (2) 12 noon SMC Tennis vs. Wheaton 12:30 ND Softball vs. Cleveland State (2) 1 p.m. ND Lacrosse at UMass 1 p.m. 

He then jokingly added, "maybe I should ask my coach." 
So, Bayliss was asked why he felt Pun's matches went the dis­tance. "He's an aggressive player. He always is looking to be innovative and creative. His style is to take chances and be aggressive." And, Bayliss noted, his tennis should get bet­ter and better. "He's going to make more of his shots as he goes along." 
Bayliss feels Pun has success coming back from behind, be­cause the "deficits don't damp­en his drive." "Some players change their style of play when they get down, but he never looks beaten. so you're never sure what's going to happen," Bayliss said. "I admire the fact he does not get discouraged and keeps fighting. He can come back and beat anyone." 
Pun agrees with Bayliss that 
see PUN I page 14 
Sunday, April 23 
ND Women's Tennis at Indiana 10 a.m. ND Baseball vs. Illinois-Chicago (2) 12 p.m. 


Monday, April 24 
No varsity sports today. 








