r---~------------------------------------~--------~----------------------------------------~--------------

Wenesday, October 16, 1996 • Vol. XXX No.38 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• HALL PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL 
College Democrats, HPC rally behind GLND/SMC 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR gay, lesbian, and bi-sexual stu­resubmitted the request using News Writer dents and their supporters." their name as a recognized stu­The resolution was presented dent organization to gain 
After a tense discussion and a by Matthew Dull representing approval for the National closed door session, the Hall the College Democrats. Coming Out Day demonstration. Presidents' Council last night According to Dull, "denial of the Kirk denied registration based decided to table a resolution registration was not based on on the second attempt because, introduced by the College the request itself but instead on "it is clear to this office, howev­Democrats. The resolution was Kirk's assumption that er, from references in The drafted by the College GLND/SMC, an unrecognized Observer, as well as from a Democrats in response to the student organization, was the prior effort by GLND/SMC to rejection of their registration true sponsor of the event." register this same event with for a demonstration last week A similar registration attempt our office, that GLND/SMC is by Bill Kirk, Viee-President for had been made earlier in the the sponsor of this function," Hesidence Life, and reads as week by Sean Gallavan, co­according to his letter denying follows: chair of GLND/SMC, who said registration. 
"Be it resolved that the Hall he was acting as a private stu­"We were refused our right to Presidents Council deplores this dent and not as head of the register because of something attempt to regulate the free controversial organization. that someone had done before speech of a recognized student That request was also denied us," said Dull. organization based on its con­on the premise that it was sub­Thomas Mattzie, former tent and purpose. mitted by an unrecognized stu­Judicial Council President and 
"Be it further resolved that dent organization. The earlier current National Association of the Hall Presidents Council calls request was signed by Gallavan Students at Catholic Colleges for an end to the ongoing effort but submitted on GLND/SMC and Universities president, then 
The Observer/Dave McCaffrey 

of the University administration letterhead. Members of the Hall President's Council listen as the College to censor the free speech of The College Democrats then Democrats request their support last night. 
see HPC I page 4 

NO named as top religious school 
extremely liberal would ,.1111111___111111________...,
By MEREDITH SALISBURY News Writer be surprised by this... Top 10 Religious Schools "Obviously we're I p · t R · r 
Named one of "The Best 310 delighted to be in the top n rmce on evtew s Colleges" in the 1997 edition of ·ten," said Assistant the Princeton Review college Director of Public guide, Notre Dame placed Relations and among the top 10 religious Information Michael schools, according to a survey Garvey. of 56,000 students at the 310 Notre Dame was also selected schools. recognized for having Notre Dame also was among poor relations between the top 20 colleges with tense students of different eth­relations between students of nic and social different races and income lev­grounds. els. "As a Catholic universi­A written survey of at least ty, we're never going to 100 students at each school feel that we've done was used to determine how stu­enough in terms of rela­dents felt about their colleges. tionships," Garvey said. Notre Dame's ranking among However, he said that the most religious schools if there is the perception resulted from one of the sur­of strained relationships, vey's questions asking whether the problem should be students at the school were addressed.
The Observer/Jamie Samar 

very religious. "If there is a single per­
Dalloway's, located in the Pine Grove Clubhouse, is a place for 
The other nine schools son at Notre Dame who
SMC students to study and socialize. 
included Brigham Young feels left out, we re~ard University and Calvin College. that 
as problematic, ' he ~~Wlll~-A , .........~~_.::~~~ 
"None of the other [high­explained. ranking religious] schools are ranked anywhere near where said that Notre Dame's 

SMC's Dalloway's 
Venci stressed that religionwe are [in the U.S. News and religious reputation could offset can be seen .as a positive if it isWorld Report, which ranked the strained situation. She says 


celebrates opening 
taken as the way in which peo­Notre Dame 17th]," said Father she has never personally wit­ple accept and deal with each

and folding chairs, Dalloway's James Flanigan an associate nessed blatant racial tension
Managers will was successful enough to con­professor of art at Notre Dame. but she is aware that it exists at "A lot of people who call us Notre Dame. see PRINCETON I page 4
tinue into its second year. try to increase From there, new managers brought changes, the most
popularity profitable of which was the Students warned after assaults purchase of sound equipment.
By ANN KEARNS By MAUREEN HURLEY
This enabled such events as

Assistant Saint Mary's Editor _As_so_cia_te_N_ew_s_Ed_it_or________
local band performances and open mike nights. 

Saint Mary's campus coffee In light of two assaults on campus this 
This year's co-managers, Jen 

house, Clarissa Dalloway's, cel­semester, the Saint Mary's security
Ilall, Lisa Mercorella, and

ebrated its Grand Opening on office advises that students avoid walk­
Carolyn Deppisch have many

Monday. ing alone at night on campus, according 
new ideas in planning. They

])alloway's, named after to Richard Chlebek, director of security. 
would like to see more student

Virginia Woolf's novel, "Mrs. A Saint Mary's student reported being 
involvement by displaying stu­

Dalloway," first opened in the victim of a strong arm robbery as 1991. Peggy Abood, a former dent art, distributing coffee she was walking between the Dining student, and the Saint Mary's club cards, and printing Hall and the west side of LeMans Hall 
Dalloway's tee-shirts. 

on Monday at approximately 7:53 p.m.,
administration presented the 
Hall, Mercorella, and 

according to Saint Mary's security
idea of a coffee house to th!'l 
Deppisch became involved at reports.
Saint Mary's Parent's Council. 
With the aid of their capital, Dalloway's two years ago, dur­The student was knocked to the Dalloway's opened during the ing their freshman year, while ground by a male subject. The assailant living in Holy Cross Hall, locat­
spring semester in 1991. 
Abood, the first manager, ed next to the clubhouse. him $5. The student suffered minor injuries. On Sept. 19, a Saint Mary's student reported An attractive feature of She was unable to give any physical description that she was attacked and fondled by three white 
chose the Pine Grove 
Dalloway's is that it is a stu­of the suspect. · male suspects in the Angela Ath1etic Facility
Clubhouse on campus for its 
dent-run business. According to security reports, this is the second parking lot. 
location. Despite its meager 
such occurrence on the Saint Mary's campus this 
beginnings with card tables see COFFEE I pageS 
semester. see ASSAULT I page 5 




page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, October 16, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Feelings of 
excitement for 

football 
If you have not noticed, many different people have criticized the student body in the past weeks for lack of spirit at football games. Part of the issue needs address­ing, especially the activities of the campus the week before football games. 
Spirit is not some-..;;;._M_a_tt_C_as-ey-­thing we must show 
Business Manager 
only at games; it is something that must always be apparent. A few years ago, the weeks before games were different than now; an electricity ran through the air. Putting a finger on exactly what it was presents a problem because it was some­thing intangible. 
A general feeling of excitement best describes the overall feelings one would get on campus. Overt acts of spirit did not dictate the feeling. One just knew a foot­ball game was coming up. Outward signs of spirit did tell about the upcoming bat­tles. Walking around campus, one could usually hear the fight song a few times before the band actually played it. Painted signs of players, mascots, and support flapped in the wind days before games. 
These signs of spirit and general feelings of excitement created an atmosphere suit­ed for college football. 
The story changes, though. 
Campus appears quieter this year than in the past. The feeling of excitement does not saturate the air. Signs do occa­sionally appear around campus but not in the same magnitude they did back then. Only the sheer number of people walking around campus on Fridays would tell a person a game should take place the next day. 
Probably the closest we have gotten to the type of feelings I am talking about was the Ohio State game. The week leading into the game did have some excitement to it. Banners could be seen on many of the dorms, and excitement did run rampant. However, quiet still ruled the campus. Music did not blast from windows, and the fight song was no where to be heard. 
The atmosphere should have been differ­ent. This was the biggest game at Notre Dame since Florida State in 1993. Ohio State represented a game with national championship implications. Sure, we lost, but life continues (big words from a man who grew up in Columbus, OH and whose college life pointed to that game). 
For many people, life continued without the excitement. The Washington game did not contain any of the emotions I have been describing. The campus was so quiet on Friday, you could here the squirrels getting fatter for winter. All this for a game that pitted two top twenty teams against each other. 
Things have to change. 
We must now look forward to Saturdays the same way we did when we were fresh­men -with the excitement of being at Notre Dame to witness the best football tradition in the nation. We must realize that we are part of something that has continued for over a hundred years and that is without anything to stop it in the near future. We must show how much the team and school mean to us by outwardly exhibiting the emotions our team deserves. 
So, this Friday when you walk across the quad just let out a "Go Irish!" No one will laugh at you. They might actually join the cheer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Lab Tech  
Michelle Krupa  Joe Stark  
Beatrice Pagliocca  Production  
John Hutchinson  
Sports  Michelle Krupa  
Brian Fremeau  Accent  
Joe Weiler  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Ethan Hayward  Jon King  

The ObseJVer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
. Earthquake rocks Northern Italy; kills two, injures 100 
MILAN, Italy 
A moderate earthquake shook northern Italy from the Mediterranean to the Alps on Tuesday, damaging build­ings, driving people from their homes and causing dozens of minor injuries. 
Two elderly people living near the epicenter died of heart attacks during the quake, the ANSA news agency reported. 
The magnitude-4.8 quake was centered 90 miles south of Milan, and shook buildings in Milan's downtown busi­ness district. 
Regional authorities said about 100 people were treat­ed for minor injuries over a wide area. Four were hospi­talized with fractures. 
Many were injured while fleeing their houses or offices in panic, police said. Several people in the northern town of Carpi were taken to the hospital in shock. 
Fifty families were evacuated from their houses in one of the hardest-hit towns, Bagnolo in Piano, a northern town 45 miles west of Milan. Forty patients were trans­ferred from a damaged part of the hospital in northern Correggio. 
Report: Jagger gets dumped 
LONDON 
Jerry Hall has asked Mick Jagger for a divorce, a British tabloid reported Wednesday. Hall, 40, is furious about reports that Jagger had two recent liaisons in Los Angeles -one with "Pulp Fiction" star Uma Thurman and another with Czech model Jana Rajich, the Sun newspaper said. Hall, a former model and the mother of three of 

Jagger's children, had forgiven the 53-year-old Rolling Stone for another reported fling four years ago, it said. Anthony Julius, who represented Princess Diana in her divorce from heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles, will help Hall with the divorce, the Sun reported. Julius confirmed that Hall is a client, but said: "I have instructions from my client that I should make no comment in connection with this inquiry." Jagger and Hall live in a mansion in Richmond, a leafy suburb of London, and maintain a summer home in France. They have been married six years, but have been living together since the late 1970s. Their three children are Elizabeth, 13, James, 11 and Georgia, 4. Jagger also has children from other liaisons. 
New law increases voter registration 
WASHINGTON 
Since the "motor voter" law went into effect last year, registration rolls have increased by 9 million, a study released Tuesday shows. That represents 17 percent of the 54 million people who had been unregistered in states covered by the new system, according to the study, prepared for the League of Women Voters and the NAACP by Human Serve, a New York-based bipartisan registration reform organization. For the 18 months from January 1995 to June 1996, some 20 million people either registered to vote for the first time, re-registered or updated their registrations using the law. "It shows that many more people will register if it is made simple," said Frances Pivin, Human Serve's co-director. Some 8.8 million people, or 44.4 percent, registered at a depart­ment of motor vehicles, the report said. About 5 million, or 24 percent, registered through the mail. Voters also registered at other government locations such as unem­ployment offices, libraries or military recruiting offices. The National Voter Rights Act requires states to offer registration through state agencies such as driver's license offices -hence the name, motor voter. The study used data from election boards in the District of Columbia and 43 states covered by the act. 
Elsewhere, quake caused scat­tered minor dam­age, knocking plas­ter off of buildings, breaking shop win­dows and briefly knocking out phones and power. There was no damage to the leaning Tower of Pisa, the AGI news agency report­ed. 
Authorities closed the Milan-Bologna railroad line as a 
precaution. busy railroad link­

ing northern Italy to Rome was reopened after two hours when technicians verified that tracks and bridges had not been damaged. 
Nazi hangman: 'It was a pleasure' 
REVERE, Mass. 
One at a time, they dropped through the trap door of the hangman's scaffold and fell still. Gestapo boss Ernst Kaltenbrunner. Hans Frank, governor-general of occu­pied Poland. Slave-labor czar Fritz Sauckel. Austrian Nazi Arthur Seyss-Inquart. In all, 10 of the men who led the Third Reich were hanged in Nuremberg on Oct. 16, 1946, for crimes against humanity. "It was a pleasure doing it," said 78-year-old Joseph Malta, the U.S. Army military policeman who held the noose 50 years ago Wednesday. "I'd do it all over again." Malta hanged 60 Nazi government and military leaders but became known as Hangman 10 for executing 10 top Nazis on that one night in the gymnasium of Nuremberg's Landsberg Prison. "These were the ones that gave the orders," he said. "They weren't sorry for anything." Malta was a 28-year-old MP when the Army asked for volunteers to hang the men condemned by the International Military Tribunal. He stepped forward, he said, because he had learned during his short time in occupied Germany about the Nazis and their newly exposed crimes. "Being there and talking to the people there, it was easy for me to decide to do it," said Malta. 
Judge denies defendant trained jury 
RIVERSIDE, Calif. 
A deaf man's unprecedented request to be tried in a rape case by a jury fluent in sign language was rejected Tuesday. "Why is it any more unique than a defendant or victim both speaking Spanish or Russian or Czech?" Superior Court Judge Gordon R. Burkhart asked during a hearing on the request by Jesse Macias. Macias, 19, of San Diego, is accused of raping a 17 -year-old deaf girl on June 3 at the California School for the Deaf, which they both attended. Defense attorney Mara Feiger argued that a jury untrained in sign language could not judge the truthfulness of Macias' accuser and other deaf witnesses. She said such jurors could not recognize the nuances conveyed through body language, facial expres­sion and gesture. Prosecutor Cynthia Brewer disagreed: ''I'm not convinced that anybody can observe somebody signing ... and mak~ a determination about whether that person is telling the truth." While denying the request, the judge said the defense could call an expert on sign language to testify about its nuances. At a preliminary hearing, the girl testified through an interpreter that Macias, whom she has known for five years, raped her after the two became separated from a group on cam­pus. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 16. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C> 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
PrtJSSUrB 
H L m ISS! [TI] 0 . [Z3 8 i) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PTCLOUDY CLOUDY 
va Auot;Jated Pr•ss 
Arlington Hts.  72  57  Columbus  73  54  Indianapolis  76  56  
Atlanta  79  58  Dallas  86  67  Los Angeles  77  59  
Baton Rouge  84  64  Denver  46  34  New York  70  60  
Boston  62  48  Elyria  60  71  Phoenix  89  66  
Chicago  68  59  Honolulu  90  75  St. Louis  77  64  

Wednesday, October 16, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
By RACHAEL RICHMOND 
News Writer 
Last night, the llesburgh Library Auditorium was on fire. Housing a mock presiden­tial debate between College Democrats and College Republicans, the room heated up as these two opposing polit­ical factions defended their respnctivn platforms. 
l'nrry Arnold, director of the llesburgh Program, presided over the debate and Sam Best, assistant professor of Governmnnt and Bob Florence, visiting assistant professor in the Department of Finance and Business Economics ques­tioned the parties. 
College Democrat Allison Dobson opened the debate 
with a defense of President Clinton's "vision for America." She outlined his plan for the next four years, which includes his desire to "preserve a quali­ty of opportunity" for Americans, to "maintain a course of economic prosper.i­ty," and to refuse to compro­mise our safety. 
College Republican Terry Kiwala opened his argument endorsing his party's candi­date, Bob Dole. Calling Dole "a new, fresh choice," he urged voters to "make sure yours is the smart and prudent choice." 
Heather Tonk argued for the Democrats in favor of affirma­tive action, describing it as "vital and necessary" for minorities, and clarified that Clinton does not call for 

reverse discrimina­
j
tion or quotas that favor unqualified people. 
The Republicans' stance on affirmative action was "justice for all." Kiwala cited reverse discrimina­tion as one problem. "Affirmative action only gives justice to a certain amount of people," he stated. Kiwala proposed instead that govern­ment monitor pro­grams at the state, 
The Observer/Dave McCaffrey local, and federal lev­College Democrats and Republicans debated their respective presidential plat­els to ensure that they forms yesterday in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
are fair. Brian Hipp delivered the Republican argument on guns 
and violence, focusing on cure" for the economy and is Clinton's "lack of control or different from an actual bal­even concern" for rising drug anced budget. 
use since 1993. The Republican economic 
The Republicans argued plan includes a 15 percent tax against the ban of assault cut and a smaller government weapons. to ensure a "robust" economy. 
The Democrats stressed David Johnson argued that 
Clinton's record in "drug con­the Republicans want to tainment, law enforcement, "remove the shackles of taxa­and gun control." tion," by decreasing taxes and 
The Democrats also favor putting more capital in the block grants to states in an economy. attempt to reduce drug use by Jennelle Jarret summarized 
youths. the Republican platform, stat­
Matthew Gentile spoke for ing that affirmative action the Democrats on the subject should be abolished because it of the economy, showing that is "based on the premise that President Clinton has "restored these groups [minorities] are the economy to the course of inferior." prosperity and growth" over College Democrat Dobson the past four years. Gentile concluded that "Americans are cited Clinton's goals for the better off than they were four economy in the next four years ago" because of Clinton. years. Dobson said that there has 
Gentile argued that the Dole been "positive progress" and tax cut is only for the wealthy. that quota-less affirmative In defending Clinton's past action, a continued decrease in vetoes of the Balanced Budget the murder rate, and a tax cut Amendment, Gentile asserted for the middle class will benefit that the amendment is "not the Americans in the 21st century. 
A film series offering movies as they were meant to be experienced. Classic films. Big Screen. Bargain price. 
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16 2:00 and 7:00P.M. 
Vincent Price stars in 
• 


@yoyo.co111·
·1 to kp111g
~~ ,\•) e-ma• G me

k}1Mhl Jpthe In-Site a • "bbean tor two. 
•· . t ·p to the car• 
The Global Leader'm €ft,.a7-day r• 


page 4 
HPC 
continued from page 1 
explained his understanding of 
the situation as it related to the 
demonstration clause found in 
DuLac that states, "All demon­
strations must be registered in 
writing with the Assistant Vice 
President for Residence Life 
and also must observe the fol­
lowing rules: 
a. 
All demonstrations must be peaceful and orderly. 

b. 
Only members of the University community may organize or lead a demonstra­tion on campus. 





Princeton 
continued from page 1 
other. 
"[Religion] is an awareness that brings people together. It's about acceptance," Venci declared. 
Garvey said that this may be a problem that the University has been attempting to improve for several years. 
"When Monk [Malloy] took over, one of his very first com­mitments was to increase enrollments of minorities here," he recalled, citing that this goal has, to some extent, been achieved. "It's clear that the commitment is there, but there's still a long way to go." 
However, Garvey said this perception of tense relations is something that may not be eas­ily eliminated at Notre Dame. 

~ 
"Precisely because we are Catholic, we are always going to have to be working on improving relationships between races ... We are never going to be satisfied with the r states of any sorts of relation­' ships at the University," 
Garvey said. 
Garvey stressed this aspect of Christianity in applying it to the report, suggesting that con­stantly striving to improve mat­ters is a basic part of the Christian doctrine. 
Sophomore April Davis, an African-American, agreed that racism is a signifiGant problem at Notre Dame. She said that there are strained race rela­tions in social interactions and even in the classrooms. 
"It got really out of hand dur­ing the OJ trial," Davis recalled. When the Simpson verdict was returned, racism became more apparent. "I didn't get a hello from any­body, and people here are usu­ally friendly," she said. 
Davis also related a time when, during one of her class-

c. Demonstrators may not impede the freedom of the University community. According to Mattzie, unless a demonstration violates one of these conditions, the adminis­tration does not have the right to deny the registration. 
"Clearly in this case, none of the three clauses was violated and a student organization was denied its right to demon­strate," said Mattzie. 
Also representing the College Democrats, Ryan Guillen added that "time after time, the administration has slammed the door in our face. 
"How long is this going to last? It is time for us to show our support for GLND/SMC," he 
es, her teacher was discussing a violent crime in which the assailant had not been seen. The teacher referred to the ·assailant as black, and when Davis questioned this point, the class was summarily dismissed. Whenever a crime like that occurs, Davis said, "people automatically assume it's a 
black person." 

Part of the problem is that "a 
lot of people here have never 
been around people of other 
races," said Davis, who said 
she was never around white 
people before her enrollment 
at Notre Dame. 

At her freshman orientation, 
Davis said, she sensed racism 
immediately and, "I began to 
question why I was here." 

She said that some racial ten­
sion could be eliminated by 
hiring more minority teachers 
and beginning programs to 
teach RAs about dealing with 
strained race relations. 

Sophomore Jim Blaum 
remarked that he has noticed 
things like cliques at the dining 
halls, but says he "thought 
everr,one got along pretty 
well. ' Blaum said he did not 
think that the low percentage 
of minority students con­
tributed to the survey results. 

The survey results are not 
considered definitive because 
the survey is administered sub­
jectively. Still, co-author Ed 
Custard said the information in 
the guide was fairly realistic. 
Both Flanigan and Garvey 
raised the issue of how much 
weight these figures should be 
given. 

Flanigan's concerns extend­
ed to the survey method. 

"Was the group surveyed 
proportionate to the popula­
tion?" Flanigan asked. He 
questioned the validity of a sur­
vey based entirely on students' 
perceptions that may not be 
entirely true or representative 
of the entire student body. 

The Associated Press con­tributed to this report. 
presents: 
THURSDAY'S COLLEGE 
• NIGHT l DANCE FLOORS .... DJ's· 
21 and over Doors open 9:00 PM -3:00 AM 



COMING EVENTS 
Friday, Oct. 18th Battle of the Bands 
Thursday, Nov. 7th Thursday, Nov. 14th Sabor Latino Stomper Bob 
The Observer • NEWS 
continued. 
The College Democrats then asked for their support of the resolution and revealed their intention to present the resolu­tion at the meetings of the Student Senate, Faculty Senate, and Graduate Student Senate. 
According to Guillen, "We [the College Democrats] plan on coming back [to HPCJ to ask for a separate resolution outlining student rights." . 
At that point, the matter was turned over to the Council for discussion and a possible vote. After a motion that the Council be allowed to discuss the mat­ter privately, the members of the College Democrats and any­one present besides Council members were asked to leave the room. 

According to Deborah Hellmuth, co-president of HPC, the resolution was then dis­cussed and a motion to accept was made. However, a motion to table the vote was introduced and seconded. Upon unanimous consent, it was decided that the matter would be tabled to allow discussion within the individual halls. 
''I'm happy to see that they're taking it seriously enough to want to go back and discuss it with their dorms. It's a serious issue and one that we under­stand they would want to think about carefully," said Dull. "We are hopeful that their response Wednesday, October 16, 1996 
will be positive," he continued. 
Kirk declined to comment on the matter since he was not present at the meeting and was unfamiliar with the details of the resolution. 
In other HPC news: 

•Walsh 
Hall was the winner of the Rockne Award for March through Sept. 1996. 

•Kevin 
Cannon from Student Residences has negotiated with a treadmill vendor to. make the purchase of treadmills afford­able to individual dorms. 

•P.E. 
announced its "Pumpkin Extravaganza" in which stu­dents can purchase pumpkins for $2 each or 3 for $5. Profits will go to the Breast Cancer Foundation and other charities. 



Find all out about hot 

A '·· .... 
' ~ :1; e:::.;:,-,_ 1t! ...~ ~
A A 
t } 
~~ ,__~·.t: ·,·~}.. 


·...with more information it should become clearer ... 
Wednesday, October 16, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Speaker to address alcohol use at SMC Coffee 
By ANN KEARNS 
A~sistam Saint Mary's Editor 
As part of Alcohol Awareness Week at Saint Mary's, students will be welcoming comidienne Wendi Fox. 
Jill Aitchison, Le Mans Hesidence Hall Director, first notieed Fox on video. 
According to Lori McKeough, Student Activities Board Coordinator, Aitchison present­
ed the video to the Residence Hall Association, a branch of the Student Government Association (SGA). 
With their approval, Fox was asked to speak to the Saint Mary's community on the dan­gers of drinking. 
Planning for Fox's appear­ance began three weeks ago and is being led by the SGA. 
The appearance will cost the 
Association approximately $2000 plus accommodation fees. 
Fox plans to use humor in approaching the serious topic of alcohol abuse. 
According to McKeough, "her humor will make you sit up and take notice of the problem on campus." 
Fox will be appearing tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 


. 

continued from page I 
Georgeanna Rosenbush, direc­tor of Student Activities, is available to give advice and to mediate problems, but she claims her role at Dalloway's is minor. 
''I'm very hands-off. I want to leave it up to the students," Rosenbush said. "The neatest thing about it is the students take ownership of it." 
Hall, Mercorella, and Deppisch's main goal is to reju­venate business from last year. 
"Our biggest challenge is get­ting our reputation back," Hall said. 
They hope to do this partially through more advertisement. They have begun by running ads in The Observer and hang­ing flyers around campus. Hall believes, however, that "adver­tisement is big by word of mouth." 
Deppisch has heard students complain that there is nothing to do on campus. Dalloway's provides students with an envi­ronment that is not only con­ducive to studying but also to socializing. It is a viable enter­tainment option for people without cars. 
According to Rosenbush, "the co-managers are trying to go 

Assault 
continued from page I 
Security reports state that at 
12:23 a.m., the victim was approached by three white males after she parked her car and began walking towards her residence hall. 
The assailants are described as male Caucasians. The first is described as short and muscu­lar with short dark wavy hair, wearing a Celtic baseball cap. The second is described as 6 '1 ", athletic, wearing a base­ball cap with an "A" on it, and a thin necklace with a small cross. The third is described as 6'1," wearing a baseball cap and a large class ring. 
The victim was able to break free and escape without suffer­ing injuries. 
Stating that one case involved robbery while the other was a sexual assault, Chlebek said that the only connection back to the original ideas. They are trying the traditional­type coffee shop, the kinds with poetry readings." 
Poetry readings and more open mike nights are on the list of changes the co-managers are hoping to make this year. 
Dalloway's is run strictly by volunteers, and according to Rosenbush, these volunteers are crucial to the business' smooth operation. 
Janelle Dombrow, freshman volunteer, is excited about being a part of the staff. Dombrow worked in a coffee house in her hometown. 
"It's a good place to meet people, and it's cool to have a comfortable setting," Dombrow said. 
The customers are also pleased with the setting. 
"Dalloway's has a lot of potential to become a laid-back place to hang out and get away from the dorms," according to senior Peggy Lenczewski. 
Deppisch expressed her enthusiasm for Dalloway's, "we just really want this place to work. 
"It's a great place. It has to be, or we wouldn't have worked here for three years." 
Dalloway's is open Mondays from 7 to 10 p.m., Wednesdays from 8 p.m. to midnight and some Saturdays from 8 p.m. to midnight. 
between the two cases was the fact that both incidents occurred at night, when the victims were walking alone. 
"I don't think that any trend, or pattern exists. They're two different situations and isolated cases," Chlebek said. "There's no reason to panic." 
However, the department maintains that students must not fall victim to believing that they are entirely safe on cam­pus. 
"As much as we'd like Saint Mary's to be a sanctuary, we're not immune from crimes occur­ring on campus," he said . "Students should be sure that they should never walk alone, and to make use of the escort service." 
Both cases are still under investigation. 
Anyone with information regarding the incidents, or who can report any suspicious per­sons on campus, should call Saint Mary's Security at 284­5000. 

...i!J ERNST&YOUNG LLP 
Junior Accounting Majors! Summer Internship Interviews November 12th and November 13th 

Maximize your future with an Ernst & Young summer internship! Submit your resume now to Career & Placement for an interview with us on November 12th or November 13th 







Please Recycle The Observer. 
~I 

at SAINT MARY'S 
Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
for this weekend Friday & Saturday night for the 

Air Force Game 
Call while they last 
219-232-4000 
-------------------------------------. 


VIEWPOINT 
page6 Wednesday, October 16, 1996 
-----~ 


• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 

Admin ignores social justice 
Dear Editor: 

As a triple domer, former faculty member, for­
mer staff member and current member of GALA­
NO (the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame), 
I am appalled, but unfortunately not surprised, 
by last week's action of the University adminis­
tration relative to the Oct. 11 campus celebration 
of National Coming Out Day. By those actions the 
administration, and most particularly the Office 
of Student Affairs, has demonstrated both its 
willingness to violate the rights of individual stu­
dents and recognized student organizations and 
the public relations hypocrisy of its professed 
willingness to embrace the gay, lesbian and bi­
sexual members of the University community. 
Furthermore, the events of the past week have 
demonstrated once again that GLND/SMC (Gays 
and Lesbians of Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
College) is the only local organization or group 
which truly represents the interests of those 
members of the Notre Dame community who 
share a same gender or an ambi-gender orienta­
tion. 

When Sean Gallavan, acting pursuant to the 
explicit provisions of Du Lac (the University's 
handbook for students). sought to register a 
National Coming Out Day demonstration which 
William Kirk, the University's spokesperson and 
assistant vice president for residence life, 
acknowledges was perfectly valid and eligible for 
approval, he was denied his right to do so. The 
fact that Gallavan is co-chairperson of 
GLND/SMC and that his registration notice was 
submitted on a GLND/SMC letterhead in no way 
detracts form his status as a student nor, despite 
Kirk's assertions to the contrary, does it justify 
denial of his Du Lac recognized right to register a 
demonstration. 

When the College Democrats, a recognized stu­
dent organization, subsequently sought to regis­ter the demonstration which they, along with the Gender Studies Program and several other stu­dent organizations, had earlier decided to co­sponsor and which clearly was in accordance with the Democratic Party's commitment to inclusiveness and respect for diversity, they too were denied their right to do so. One must surely wonder if, for example, the Right to Life organi­zation would be denied its right to register the same demonstration that had been rejected on · grounds similar to those asserted against 
Galla van .. 

In an additional demonstration of the adminis­tration's hostility to the recognition of equal rights for lesbian, gay and bi-sexual persons and its disrespect for the legitimate rights of students who support causes that run counter to the views of certain highly placed administrators, a threat was made to forcibly remove students who insist­ed upon participating in the unregistered demon­stration. Somehow, the provisions of Du Lac which provide simply for the ministerial registra­tion of demonstrations have become a vehicle for hostile administrators to determine which legiti­mate demonstrations will be permitted and which equally legitimate demonstrations will not be permitted. How much more evidence must we have in support of the urgent necessity for inclu­sion of a sexual or gender orientation clause in all statements of the University's non-discrimina­tion pledge? How much more evidence must we have in support of the urgent necessity for inclu­sion in Du Lac of an explicit and unambiguous Bill of Student Rights? 
The administration's hostility toward the recognition of equal rights for gays, lesbians and bi-sexuals has long been apparent. It has persist­ed despite recent public relations posturing and hypocritical claims of acceptance. In this regard, the administration continues to disregard Catholic principles of individual and social jus­tice. It continues to ignore the Catholic Catechism's insistence upon an end to unjust dis­crimination against gays, lesbians, and bi-sexu­als. By repeatedly sending a message to the Notre Dame community that its gay, lesbian and bi-sexual members cannot be trusted to invite speakers to our campus, to sponsor events or even to meet without the presence of administra­tion monitors, the administration continues to demean and to defame these members of the Notre Dame community. While seeking to justify this discriminatory policy by referring to a dis­torted version of Catholic teachings and a disput­ed theological interpretation of a few controver­sial biblical passages, these administrators and others who are similarly opposed to our legiti­mate equal rights demands have repeatedly vio­lated the explicit prohibition of the Eighth Commandment: "Thou shalt not bear false wit­ness against thy neighbor." 
LAWRENCE BRADLEY J.D. '60, M.A. '62, Ph.D. '71 
demonstrate the denied 
this event; 
clear that my inability to not arise from any difficul­pt'iopcJse:d f~nction itself: Minimally the . had decided to indepen­delliOlllstratlon or reserve space to host a Na.uo.naJ Coming Out Week, such .~.~."',...-~ for approval. It is clear to relferem~es in The Observer, as 
•GLND/SMC to. register· this . GLND/SMC is the sponsor of 
•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
I WOUWHAVT3 7()W Y()(J, 8UT YOUWOUW HAV& GON& TOTAU.Y MeNTAl. QV IE, ANP 7H&N KIM NBVBR IM?UWHAV& COMe 8AO<! \  OOP3,NOIAJ YOU'Re MAl? 7HATI~ THROUGH YOU.' IAM, UK&, 50 /)(JM£3/ \  

• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Sacred cows make the tastiest hamburger." 
-Abbie Hoffman 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 16, 1996 page 7 
• LEITER TO THE EDITOR 

Campus discussion of racism provokes response 
Dear Editor: 
Being born and raised in the South, where racism has always been more open and visible than any other area in this country, I am ashamed to say that I have experienced more racism in the past year here at Notre Dame than I ever did in my first 18 years on this earth. The events that have occurred these past few weeks have only gone further to support my statement. Between the racial slurs being said to Nikole Hannah and the three-day forum on race relations last week, not only have I been able to express my viewpoints on racism around campus, but I have also been able to see how several white students here at the University seem to think that racism does not affect them. Well, maybe it docs and maybe it does not, but let me say this: I am always hearing about the "Notre Dame Family." If we all are a part of this family, does not racism affect us all? 
After reading the article by Josh Gerloff (The Observer, Oct. 4) in response to Hannah's article, I can understand where he is coming from and the reasons behind his statements. But thnre were several things written in the article which show why there is such an abundance of racial misunder­standing at Notre Dame. First of all; in the beginning of the article, in refer­ence to his homecoming dance, Gerloff states that he was unsure of whether or not he was going to make it out of the dance alive, especially if he had won. What is this supposed to mean'! Why does he feel that his life was endan­gered because he was in a predomi­nantly black environment Every day, I am the only black in a given place. People stare, people whisper, but never do I feel that my well-being is in jeop­ardy. 
Second. I havc to quote Gerloff on this:" ... but I'm even sorrier and more disappointed that they had such a huge impact on her (Hannah) and her opin­ion of others." 

Then it goes on to say, "I am strug­gling to see the oppression and hateful racism here. Everyone I've met is friendly and open to one another. They see each other as people, not as opin­ionated colors." That's funny. Everyone that I have met is not friendly and open to me. Especially when I am walking back to my dorm at night. When I approach a white female, she grabs her purse and pulls it a little closer to her, and her walking speed drastically increases. Is this being open and friendly? Even more plainly, many peo­ple don't speak back when I open up and speak to them. This quote in itself explains what I am trying to get across. The reason why Gerloff cannot see why the incident had such an impact on Hannah is because there is no way in which he can put himself in her shoes and even come close to imagining how she felt. Never will he be put in that same situation. However, I can, and so can all of the other blacks that attend this University. Also the reason Gerloff does not see any racism here is because, naturally, he is not black. It is kind of like spitting in the wind. If you spit against the wind, it blows right back in your face. If you spit in the same direction that it is blowing, it will be blown away from you, and it will never bother you. Josh is in the position of the latter of the two cases. As for me, my face is always getting wet. 
Thirdly, he uses the football team as an example. Being a football player, I can certainly address this and bring up many general and personal incidences that disprove his point. First of all, everyone on this campus is familiar with Bookstore Basketball. That is a complete racial situation in itself, but speaking on the football team, the same football players that are so loved when they are on the football field, got an array of boos and hisses last year when a bookstore basketball team comprised mainly of football and former football players stepped onto the court. 
In commenting on personal inci­dences, every time I step into an eleva­tor, no matter how many people are occupying it, be it one or ten, I always have enough space to run a couple of laps before I get off. But, as soon as someone asks the question, "Are you a football player?" they get closer and all of a sudden want to talk and shake my hand. Why is this? 
Another example: Walking into any of my engineering classes (I am majoring in Computer Engineering), every day, I get looks and stares that say, ''He does not belong here." Or, why is it that in a crowded class there is always a seat separating myself and the ·closest per­son to me (unless occupied by one of my few friends in engineering)? Or, why is it that when I am walking around campus and I pass by someone walking on the opposite side of the sidewalk they walk all the way into the grass when they pass me? Or, why is it that when I am at the corner of Juniper on my way to the JACC, I hear doors click at a red light? What is this? 
But when I have on that gold helmet and blue jersey, thousands of fans are yelling, "GO IRISH!" It seems as if there is a double standard here. Am I not the same person that you are cheering for in Notre Dame Stadium as I am walking around campus? What's the difference? Someone please tell me. Don't get me wrong, Notre Dame is the greatest uni­versity in the country, and I am more than proud to represent it every week, but it is not perfect. There is racism here, and I experience it every day. 
In response to the use of the word "nigger," let me say this. If you do not know the whole story, do not attempt to only tell half of it. The first half of Gerloff's statement in correct. "Nigger" is a degrading, ignorant, hate-filled word that represents the centuries of brutality and oppression towards African-Americans in this country. However, there is another part to the story, the word "nigga." Although it is similar in spelling and pronunciation to the word "nigger," it has a completely different meaning. In the context of one African-American referring to another as 'any nigga' or 'that nigga,' this is a term of endearment meaning friend, brother, or simply 'man.' In the instance of a white person referring to a black person, well, that is a bit more complicated. But let me say this: Where I come from, I frequently hear a white man referring to a black man as "nigga." It's all in how you mean it and how you say it. However, some blacks refuse to be referred to as 'nigga' sim­ply because of the similarities in spelling and pronunciation to the word 'nigger.' It's all in choice on what youprefer. 

In no way have I ever been or will I ever be a prejudiced person. I was raised in a Christian home and just as God wants Christians to do, I am mak­ing and attempt to make the world a better place. When Jesus was on this earth, he did not sit back and just let things happen, he went out and made things happen. That is what I am trying to do: be more like Christ. If you read this letter and understand what I am trying to say, thanks. If you do not agree with or do not understand any point I am trying to get across, let me know, we can talk about it. If you arc a prejudice person and still hate blacks, I love you and I wish you the best. I am just trying to do my part to make this University and this world a better place because it is mine, and it is ours. 
JAMES FRIDAY III Sophomore, Morrissey Manor 
• fRIVOlATA 


Daylight Savings Time: Fight for our right to light 
When the Vampire Lestat was asked what he thought of mortal life, he responded that he absolutely despised it. Pressed further, he was asked whether there was no even one small thing about it that was good. His response? "The light of the sun... The light of the sun on snow; the light of the sun on water; the light of the sun... on one's hands and on 

Kirsten Dunne 
one's face, and opening up all the secret folds of the entire world as if it were a flower, as if we were all part of one great sighing organism." 
I share Lestat's passion for sunlight, and hate to face the reality that the sense of dread which has been creeping up on me for weeks will soon encompass me and turn my existence into a living nightmare. The end of daylight savings time -or more appropriately, the begin­ning of never ending gloom -will fall upon us within a couple of weeks, and always when this happens, I contem­plate whether it would not be preferable to simply bury myself and go to sleep for six months. Perhaps I should not be accustomed to this annual phenomenon by now, but I guess it's the same as with any other form of injustice: its regularity does nothing to justify it nor make it any more acceptable. What makes it even worse is that it's so pointless! I've heard two major so-called reasons for subject­ing ourselves to one continuous six month night, and they are naught for nonsense. 
One justification for daylight savings time. according to some people, is that you get "increased productivity" with it. 

Since DST technically applies to half of the year when it's actually light past 5 p.m., I guess the argument makes some sense. But why do we have to set the damn clocks BACK for the other half­year -there IS such a thing as DECREASED productivity, you know! And it's worse for those of us who abide by the motto "late to bed and late to rise.'' I guess that, even in the winter morning people benefit -they can get up t 6 a.m., and the sun will already be shining, so they feel more motivated to delve right into the day's work. What do they care if the smoky is pitch black twelve hours later? They're getting ready for bed. 
Night owls like myself, however, despise waking up any time before 11:00, regardless of the weather. Heck, you could stage a circus at my bedside and not get me to move if it's too early for my little internal clock! On the other hand, how am I supposed to get motivat­ed during MY prime hours when the sun disappears at some ungodly time of day? I'm lazy enough, for crying out loud, and the whole deal with setting the clocks back turns me into a living definition of the word slacker. The other reason I've heard sun-haters use in defense of DST is that it leads to a decreased time rate. Again, I can kind of see the logic of the argument for setting the clocks ahead ­but why tamper with Father Time in the winter hours, when nature sees to it that the days are ridiculously short anyway? One guy, who annoyed me enough as it was, told me that daylight savings time is good because children don't have to wait for their morning school buses in the dark, and are therefore less likely to get mugged. Forgive my callous indiffer­ence, please, but if you expect me to take my punishment with a grin simply because it's for the good of children, you've got another thing coming. 
Okay, so I'm selfish. Perhaps the more relevant issue is whether DST really does lead to a decreased crime rate. And personally, I think the idea is a crock of nonsense. There is a lot of crime today, especially in large cities. I don't think toying around with the clocks has a big effect on that reality, especially when you consider that, in today's world, it's not rare for a person to be abducted in broad daylight. Moreover, using the kids on the bus sce­nario, if the muggers can't get 'em on the way there, they can grab 'em on the way home. Indeed, they probably prefer that setup. How many criminals do you know who prefer to work earlier in the day? I guess the "increased productivi­ty" bit does hold some water after all, at least in this particular scenario! 

In summary, there is no compelling explanation for this phenomenon. Meanwhile, it's a terrible burden. I admit I'm one of the extreme cases; sun­light deprivation affects me greatly. But can you say you LIKE the idea? I don't know of a single person who doesn't become crabby and at least a little depressed when faced with the task of setting the clocks back. Bottom line, it's cruel and unusual punishment in dis­guise. 
This is one of the reasons I truly 

enjoyed living in South Bend, which does not mindlessly follow the rest of the nation by engaging in a meritless ritual, and why I'd become incensed when they would air those commercials telling peo­ple to write to their representatives and urge them to implement DST. What we really need to do is convince everyone else to do the opposite: leave the clocks alone this month, for God's sake, and don't play around with them ever again! 
Perhaps you have never given much thought to this whole idea, and if that's the case, I urge you to think about it now. It's election time, and everyone else is lobbying for their own issues. Lower taxes. Protect the right to life. Protect the right to die. Well, I've got my own battle, and I'd be delighted if you'd join me. So if you hate daylight savings time, do something about it. We very well might not prevail, but we must fight... fight for our right to light! 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '93, ND Law '96, works for Goldberg, Weisman & ·Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 




ACCE-NT 
page 8 
• AccENT AsKs... 

What was your worst date at Notre Dame, and why? 

"Knott SYR. My date got sick at 10 p.m. and passed out." 
Alana Tubito Junior, Knott Hall 
"I don't have bad dates." 
James Dougherty Junior, Flanner Hall 



"Freshman SYR. My date fell in the lake:' 
Nerea Arrien Junior, Knott Hall 
"Senior Ball. I got into an auto accident. Insurance premiums 
. can ruin a date." 
Aaron Nolan Junior, Keough Hall 



"I went to an SYR and my date showed up drunk." 
Rasey Valencia Junior, Off-campus 
''The girl I took out smoked at least 13 cigarettes over a span of two hours." 
Tony Capasso Senior, Keenan Hall 


Wednesday, October 16, 1996 



No excuse for n 


By MEGAN FERSTENFELD 
Accent Copy Editor 
and JOSEPH WEILER 
Assistant Accent Editor 
H
ow many times have we heard the stereotype that dating at Notre Dame is non-existent? That it is easier to get a 4.0 than find a venerable mate at this university? It's true that single-sex dorms, parietals, and heavy workloads don't pro­vide an optimal environment for meeting potential boyfriends and girlfriends. Notre Dame. Priorities are set on school, gen­der relations a mere facade, and SYR's the culmination of contact between male and females stu­dents, Still, can we go so far to say that relationships here are completely dead? 
Surprisingly, a large portion of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents are currently involved with significant others. They claim that dating is simply what you make of it, and a reflection of how much effort you are willing to put forth. 
There are even a few students who have found tlieir future spouses in the hollowed halls of campus buildings. Tracey Banks, a senior from Knott, is engaged to her now graduated NO sweet­
heart. He proposed to her last year in Loftus, where they met doing Army PT. As far as she is concerned, dating at Notre Dame 

By ANGELA RADDIN 
Accent Writer 
S
o you have a date for Friday night. The uncomfortable task of asking someone out has already been performed, and, lucky for you, the per­son said yes. Now looms the next hur­dle: where are you going to take your date? 
Somehow those late night, drunken parties don't seem like the ideal place to impress a person. There is always that lurking temptation to be original (otherwise known as romantic). Originality is always appreciated and can lead to some pretty interesting dates. Instead of just taking your date out to dinner or to a movie, although those are always nice, bring him/her somewhere different. Different leaves a lot of doors open but let's consider something that will almost guarantee a hit with everyone. 
Whether as spectator or participant, everyone seems to have interest in some sort of physical activity. So why not find out the interests of your date in sports or activities and plan some­thing involving them? Let's. look at some of the options: 
• Dancing: 
Okay so this is not the most original of ideas. But it is a pretty safe bet for a good time. And there are some new approaches to this activity, some you and your date may never have tried, such as country dancing. This can actually be fun even if you can't stand the music. There is the famous two­step and the ever popular line-dance. They are easy to learn, and may come in handy in the future. 

If you think that you are too sophisti­cated for country, why not try ball­room dancing? This is a bit more for­mal and would require a little more effort. For instance, you would have to learn the dances first. 
If you didn't take social dance class­es for P.E. or haven't been going to the classes that the Notre Dame ballroom dancing club offers, than you are pret­ty much out of luck unless you want to spend more money and more time learning the steps. But if you are will­ing, it can make for a very romantic, enjoyable evening. Then of course there is always the typical rock dances that you can find at almost any bar. 
• Attending a Sports Event: 
This is no new concept to any Notre Dame student. But how better to bond with someone than while supporting the mighty Fighting Irish? 
Obviously there are the football games, along with tailgaters, but there are so many other teams to watch too. A football game isn't such an original date. Actually, it wouldn't make much of.a date at all. But sports events that don day and that can mak pleasant night out. events are also free to ing you to save mon dinner or perhaps a the teams you might with a certain special ey, soccer (men and ball (men and women' so much more. Your a particular interest areas, and he/she mi: show an interest also. 
• Getting Active: 
There are so mal activities out there fo, your date both happe certain sport than m1 petition will put so relationship. Some s skating ( it worked About You), tennis, r ing, horseback riding badminton, golf, table-
Perhaps you can i with your incredible , doesn't happen to be you can pretend that : as to have graciously you for their own e have to appreciate Sill all goes well then you regular excursion for 


---~------~------~ 
I I 
I I I




ACCENT 

Wednesday, October 16, 1996 
~iction? 
HI Saint Mary's College is alive found it frustrating, but my par­
tdwell. ents managed to meet here, so maybe there's some hope."
Still, other students are of a 
fprent opinion. Many claim Finally, a few students subscribe .t going out at ND is "pseudo­to the belief that aating at Notre ting". to the extent that stu­Dame is completely non-existent. nts don't really go out on Sophomore Heather Natelborg al!~s". Hatlwr, dorm parties notes that "most people simply d local bars are as about exit­choose not to have relationships." ( as things get. Other common Either they don't have the time or mplaints are that dating at simply don't want to expend the )/SMC repetitive, and South energy necessary to rise above the 
nd ofl'ers relatively few options social barriers and find a girl­couples who wish to expand friend/boyfriend. When asked air horizons beyond Beacon why she chooses not to date, one 
wl and Don Pablo's. Also, the junior replied, "It just doesn't gument that dating at Notre seem like there is much out 1.m(l and Saint Mary's is a mat­there." 
r of extremes surfaced with Perhaps the major impediment 1rprising regularity. One senior to healthy dating life at the 'mm1mts, "I think there's defi­University of Notre Dame (and 
tely a problem, because you perhaps a potential solution) is the LVe to either be super-serious or overwhelming lack of social space. Lve nothing at all. There's no There simply aren't enough co-ed 1-bntwenn." Mike Gagla, a gathering spots where members nior in Fisher llall, allirms this of the opposite sex can intermin­sition. lie says that dating at gle. However, Jacob Triga, a tro Dame irnplins that you are Freshman living in O'Neill Hall, 1ek in one mold, and if you said that the idea of a lack of .l't follow the preordained pat­social space is simply a myth. He n you are a "freak". gets around that by sitting in front Vhile single upperclassmen are of his dorm, smoking cigarettes, '.lPrally cynical, sophomores and philosophizing with the hap­I first ynar students tend to be penchance passerby. But for 
t more optimistic. One sopho­sophomore Kelly Fitzpatrick of ·e from Alumni llall said, "It's Lewis, lack of social space poses a vorsc for me here than it was serious problem to male and orne." Laura Pete lie, a fresh-female relatipns. "There just 
1 from Lyons adds, "so far I've aren't a lot of places where cou­1d it frustrating, but my par­ples can go and have private time, ; managed to meet here, so especially after parietals." 

t dating 
there are other You could bring friends if you 't last the whole wanted to, or just go by your­~~ for an entirely selves. 
Most of these studnnts, allow­• Learning a New Sport: lY for a special Thcrc is always the option of novie. Some of choosing an activity that nei­ant to go watch ther of you has participated in 
erson arc hock-bcfore. This way you can learn omen's), basket­together. Maybe you have ·), volleyball and always had the desire to learn date might have one of the sports listed above. in one of these Or maybe you have always ht like that you wanted to learn how to fence. This is a really fun alternative. Either you both learn quickly, you both look like fools, or one recreational person learns faster than the wo. If you and other and gets to amuse them­to be good at a selves by watching the other c a little com­make a fool of him/herself. e sparks in the Although having your date uggestions: icc laugh at you might not be your or Paul in M.a..d idea of fun, it brings people equetball, bowl-closer together in the end 
sailing, skiing, (really it does!). 
ennis. Whether you are an athlete ress your date or strictly a devoted fan, there ills. Or if that is so much out there in the way the case, then of sports. So get out there and u were so kind do it! Your date may thank you et them defeat later for not waking up the lyment. They next morning with a headache, h kindness. If although their throat may be a 
lght makc it a little sore from cheering. You he two of you. may even thank yourself. 
What do these trends posit for the future of dating at ND? No doubt gender relations have improved since the university went co-end in 1972 and with the ever-growing numbers at Saint Mary's. Even if we we still have a long road ahead, no one can argue that we have gained a great deal of ground in the· past several decades. It seems that there are more couple's on campus and more engagements every year. So, does this imply that there is an increased tendency for Domers to interbr'eed? Now that the first generation of women to graduate have teenage children, it will be interesting to see if there will be a large influx of alumni children who have not just one, but both parents as alums. 
Moreover, University Presid"Cnt Father Edward Malloy announced yesterday that it will work to pur­sue an affirmative action policy that includes recruiting more female professors and students. With a new recreationaVathletic center in the works the problem of inadequate social space may be alleviated. 
Will these changes truly make a difference in dating? (Not with the female professors, of course). We'll have to wait and see. In the meantime, ND students will have to bear up under the weight of repressed social , and seek their own alternatives to the traditional dating system. 
page 9 
ou•ou.....u. the days of sweet innocent puppy love, "'·''"·"''""'·girls blushed at the flirtations of their fell as nn,rt.c•il1ilni<•"Walked hand in ht:~-nd through leafy forests gaz­
Other'S eyes? 
Romance is dead and dating killed it. It that wonderful institution known as courtship · Now we have to worry about sexual harass­restraining orders to protect against stalk· 
· we grew up learning. 
oonf·rinn any better, either. There is something a she year old hoy in the first grade is ')"''""''"'-v harassing' a classmate by kissing 
more chivalry. There is no more room for it. · d out by pick~up lines like, "Do you come , "What's your sign?" How about, "Hey, that eat on you, but it would look even better ,. my floor!" and even, "If I told you that you would you hold it against me?" These · · into a terrible cliche. If you use cott$id.ered cheesy. If you don't, you are bor· 
~(Joo:~~·~"'""'\l• It's·a no-win situation. the crime of being boring is the fact 
~w~ ~·;""' indating. Everything is clear •• · . . . · known to a lady who . he is banking all of his hopes on her 
_,·'·n·-"-·~' woman would have said something . , you oughtn't flatter a girl so." a ~nolier·n setting you might get a response like, ••v......... of the nineties. Do you actually expect · with you? Why? So you can take me after watching some awful gory movie. · sappy music, whereupon you will get sleep with me, which, of course, you then trot into the bathroom and uri· proceed into the kitchen where you'll . :without even thinking of me. Then nextto me only to explain that ""'··:"'"'"''"'" a flight attendant named Helga, cause the two of you have an 
so, Mr. Man!" 
· · . enough to survive this first might then be subject to a whole u~~~ti()nS: "'Have you been married'? Do . . had been married would you you had been married and actually been able to support them? What 
•n:.: '"'": 1 · What size ring do you think I · Are you willing to . stating that you will be least six full months on the up?" 
an actual date might be like. . .. . know whether to bring choco­. •.. boes he bring flowers or go with· 
be k-illing the ecosystem by removing .•. · .·and thus throwing off the hal· Should he get the door for her or 
· an independent woman of the on getting the door for herself she wants.to pick up her half of the 
ar~ses of where to go on this long 
•. . your date on a romantic picnic in 
•nt!rl·;.·.in to that dying breed of chivalry. · to aquaint little bookstore/cof· down the street. 
very well might be) or does it seem . . . . a party and partakJng in a random 
•· . better option than kissing her hand in perhaps.exchanging phone numbers? in.,.,.,w...,rn all much easier in the middle ages when ................•a knights and women were damsels. It . ·equal opportunity dating but at least the rules. Perhaps it had something to do 
is far mor0 romantic to ride off into the than to pulllnto her driveway in a Pinto. 

r-~~-~--------­
Wednesday, October 16, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 10 
r 

Bucks hold off Bulls rally 
Associated Press Writer Toni Kukoc 20 for the Bulls, who are 1-2 -----------------in the preseason. Chicago lost three of 
CHICAGO eight exhibitions last year but then 
Vin Baker scored 30 points Tuesday dropped only three of its frrst 44 regular­
night in leading the Milwaukee Bucks to season games en route to an NBA-record 
a 105-104 exhibition victory over the 72 wins and the championship. 
Chicago Bulls, who played at the United 
Center for the first time since winning Jordan had nine points during the early 
the NBA title there last June. third-quarter run, which gave the Bulls a 
Glenn Robinson added 25 points for the 61-57 lead, but Milwaukee came back 
Bucks, while Sherman Douglas 18 assists and took a 76-74 lead at the end of the 
and Andrew Lang 16 rebounds. period on Robinson's 3-pointer. The 
The Bucks won despite getting Bucks led 103-96 with just over a minute 
outscored 19-0 to start the second half. to play before Kukoc made consecutive 
Michael Jordan scored 28 points and 3-pointers to pull Chicago within a point. 

'Hawks perfect on road 

Associated Press Writer Thirty-seven seconds later, James Black checked the puck away from Matt TORONTO Martin at Toronto's blue line and hit Kevin Miller scored the go-ahead goal Miller with a pass in the middle of the in the third period and Ed Belfour made zone. Miller aimed for the top of the net 39 saves as the Chicago Blackhawks as goaltender Felix Potvin was droppingbeat the Toronto Maple Leafs 3-1 to his knees and the puck went in under 
Tuesday night. the crossbar. Toronto outshot Chicago 40-30, Tony Amorite added an empty-netterincluding 21-9 in the third period, but for Chicago, 3-0 on the road this season. Belfour stopped all but one shot. The Blackhawks had lost their three With the score 1-1, the Leafs almost previous games, all at home. got the go-ahead goal at 7:12 of the Toronto took a 1-0 lead on a short­third but Doug Gilmour's shot hit the handed goal by Muller 2:43 into the post and bounced out. game. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 

Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
SMC alumnae w/ extensive classi­cal piano training has openings for intra. piano lessons, children 8 & up. call Meaghen @ 271-7933 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football wknds. 5 Rooms with private baths, $70 -$90, Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800-418-9487 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great Beaches & Nightlife! Prices Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­

-breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From South Bend $419! Prices Increase Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break Panama City! Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights $129! Daytona-Best Location $139! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 

ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST:Rockhurst class ring '93, Black neck band with silver eagle and balck Acqua watch at Stepan volleball courts, on Sun, 9/29@2pm Tom x0573 
REWARD REWARD REWARD 
I'VE LOST MY CAMERA GIVEN TO ME BY MY SONS ON MY 50TH BIRTHDAY. 
CAMERA LOST IN THE HUDDLE ON SUNDAY AFTER OHIO STATE GAME. 
CAMERA DESCRIPTION: 
RICOH MODELZ-1002. 
PLEASE CALL PAUL PENDER­GAST AT 860-651-1911. 
LOST: Blue Computer Diskette labelled "Letter Perfect 1" on Wed Oct 2, Hesburgh cluster. II found, please call Jeanne @287-5467. 
FOUNIJ: LARGE AMBER CLIP EARRING. CALL DOROTHY 272-2136. 


WANTED 
Earn MONEY and FREE TRIPS!! Absolute Best SPRING BREAK Packages available! I INDIVIDUALS, student ORGANIZA­TIONS, or small GROUPS wanted!! Call INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at 1-800-327-6013 or http://www.icpt.com 
Need experienced gardener's 
helper. 
Plant bulbs, etc. 6-8 hrs. @ $8. Pat 273-0356. 
HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243. 
YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING KIDS, MY HOME, M,W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$. 

277-9079Hundereds of Students Are Earning Free Spring Break Trips & Money! Sell 8 Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica $399, Panama City/Daytona $119! www.spring­breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
FREE TRIPS & CASH! Sell SKI & SPRING BREAK beach trips. Hottest places & coolest spaces. Call immediately Student Express, Inc. 1-800-SURFS-UP. 
Volunteers wanted! Epilepsy Education Assoc. Meeting: Wed, Oct.16 1st Source Bank Building (downtown), 7:30 p.m. Call Bob Sherk 273-4050 

FOR RENT 

WALK TO CAMPUS 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Private Homes for Football, JPW, Graduation, etc. 219-291-7153 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY .. private homes for football, JPW, graduation, etc. 219-291-7153 
4-bdrm. home N. of campus in Roseland. Walk to ND/SMC. 
Ideal for faculty, staff or student. Available now. 287-9342. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­
ENDS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 
243-0658. 
FOUR SISTERS INN bed & bkfst home. Rms avail for football week­ends, JPW & grad. 2 miles from campus. 219.287.6797 
Moving to Chicago? SWF Alum looking for a roommate to share 2 bdrm apt in goldcoast area. Very reasonable. Call312­787-7850. Leave message. 
Subletters needed for spacious 2 bedroom apt. near campus, for spring semester. Call Peter at 234­4779. 

FOR SALE 

Gray 87 Cutlas Cierra loaded auto excellent condition. New parts 101 
K. Best Offer. 219-296-7546(night) 1-9397(day). 
1993 Honda Accord EX. One owner. 39,000 miles. Very clean, 
rear spoiler, CD , loaded. Asking $14,500. 256-7152. 
AIR FORCE STUDENT TICKET must selll!l call wendy at 243 9430 
90 VW JETTA BLACK 2DR SNRF 5SPD MINT $6500 OBO 277-3569 
REDUCED!!! -92 GEO Tracker $7,800 o/b/o-only 54K, A/C red w/convertible top. Pascal 687-1253 (w) or 273-5848 (h) 
MAC Centris 610, w/17"monitor, laser printer, 14.4 modem, Excel, Word, Games, GMAT. $1350, Call Joe K. (ND '95)@ (312)649-1365. Will deliver. 

TICKETS 

NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058 24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
BUYING G.A.'S FOOTBALL 312.404.4903 
FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME GAMES 235-3394 
ALUM NEEDS GA's for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS 618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm 
I NEED 4 AIR FORCE GA'S CALL STEVE AT •o867 
N.D. Football tickets bought & sold. 219-232-2378 a.m. 288-2726 p.m. 
Have 2 Pitt tix; need 2 BC tix! Please call Patti at (610)775-5144 
WANTED: 3 GA or upgraded stu­dent tix to the Air Force game . Call Jamie 4-1501. 
STUDENT FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE -ALL GAMES!!! call James X1658 
#################### DESPERATELY NEED 
AIR FORCE GAs Karin @ X4635 #################### 
Help!!!I Need a GAtor the Air Force game. Ask for Tina 4-3113. 
NEED ONE RUTGERS TICKET !! Call Elena x2900 
WANTED, 2 AIRFORCE GAs CALL BIG PAT @ 273-5875. 
NEED AIRFORCE GAs CALL SHANNON @ 4-4624 
WE NEED AIR FORCE TIX-STU­
DENT OR GA-CALL MEGHAN 
@232-7839. 

NEED TICKETS 4 AIR FORCE G.A.'S CALL SEAN X0644 
Need 3 A-Force GAs call Matt 4-3573 
FOR SALE AIRFORCE PITT AND RUTGERS GAs FOR SALE 272-7233........... 
NEED 1 maybe 2 AF ticket GA for sisters call Bill 4-3906 
'95 grad needs 2-6 Air Force GA's for parents. Call Joe@ 1:800-736­3399 x6169 and leave message. I'll return call asap. 
NEEDED: 4 AIR FORCE GA's Call Brian@ 4-1737 
NEEDED: 2 non-stud GAs tor Air Force. FRANK 4-3323. 
Needed: 6 Air Force GA's, Call Eric at 271-9069 
***FOR SALE••• 2 Air Force st. tix b/o 272-9759 
AIR FORCE STUD. TICKET W/ ID must sell!! call wendy at 243 9430 
@#%$ NEED 4 AF GA BADLY 288-9102 %$%$ 
TIX for every home game. Call (301) 445-3955 
$45 WILL PAY $45 FOR 1 AIR FORCE GA Call Brian x1961 $45 
NEEDBCTIXI As many as possible CALL ANYTIME: 4-1382 or (617) 828-1089 
4 Sale: Pair of Sid tixs for last 3 games. Will trade any into GAs. x2557 or x3950 
Need 3 AF GA's Call x1195 
!!! FOR SALE !!I Air Force Stud Tix (WI a temp I D) Call X1473 
For Sale: 1 Rutgers GA Call 273­9829 
I NEED RUTGERS GA'S CALL KATIE 243-9038 
AF/PITT/RTGRS 
1 STU BOOK, 2 MARRIED STU 
BOOKS 
BEST OFFER 232-2586 
at stu ticket 4 sale x4215 
Wanted: 1 BC Ticket Call Amy at x-1675 
FOR SALE Air Force -St. Ticket Call Alex 4-2689 or 1-4306 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME 
AND AWAY 
232-0058 
24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE 
TICKET-MART, INC. 
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061. 
$$$$$$ I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS ALL HOME GAMES. 272-6551 
n. d.. tickets for sale 271 1635 
$NEED WASH, & AF TIX 708-848-9432 5-7 PM EDT M-F 708-847-7614 7-9 PM EDT M-F 
NEED 2-4 GA TIX ALL HOME GAMES. CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 
GA Football Tix -Buy/Sell 674-7645-No student or student conv. 
Need 2 Air F. GA's Amy 616-473-5825 
NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS ­HAVE AF, PITT, RUTGERS TICK­ETS TO TRADE. CALL WORK 601-893-5352 OR HOME 901-755­4273 
NEED BC & WASH TIX 312-951-5008 
WANT 2 or 3 Non convert AF GA's, John 634-4219 
AF Stu tix for sale call X-1158 Will trade Air Force Student Ticket and $ for Rutgers GA Call 273-6039 
Need 2 Air Force GAs for parents call Brian at 634-0559 (4-0559) 
I NEED AIR FORCE GAs!!!!! Call X4121 
I NEED 2 RUTGERS GAsl!!! Please call X3886. 
!@#$%"&*()(.&"%$#@!!@#$% 
Need TWO AIR FORCE GA's 
Call X1468 & Leave Name, Number, PRICE 
!@#$%"&*()(*&"%$#@!@#$% 
AF Stu-tix 4 sale x-2737 
FOR THE LOVE OF GOD Jill need 2 Air Force GA's for my parents! Call Tony anytime x0915 
FOR SALE AF GA-Paul @ 283­0392/0397 
FOR SALE*stud. AF-Call Paul 
@ 283-039210397 
Need 2 Air Force GAs Call Chad at 271-8019 
FOR SALE: 2 AIR FORCE GA'S. 
CHRIS (201 )763-9346. 
Desperate for RUTGERS Tix. Call ROB @634-0552. 
NEED 2 GAs • ANY HOME GAME. NEED AT LEAST 10 DAYS NOTICE. CALL COLLECT: PEG McDERMOTT 410/965-7732 AFTER 4pm. 
Beer, Money, and Lavish Praise in exchange for 3 tix to Rutgers. 508­339-7497 
2 stud tix-Air Force CHEAP x2626 or 2597 
Need 4 GA's and 1 Stud. Conv. GA for Air Forse. 243-1185 Cara and Ashley 
NO Alum dad needs A. F. GA Will Pay Big Bucks (215)854-4559 Ask for Dan 


PERSONAL 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Thanks to 
Jeff Sullivan, 
Ginny Babst and 
Jeannine Haener 
and those who helped to 
make the London 
Program Barbecue such 
a resounding success. 
Have you turned in your LONDON PROGRAM APPLICATION??? 
GWAR ROCKSJIJ Long live the SEXECUTIONERII 
TIRED OF HOMEWORK? 
Try GEORGE AND THE FREEKS!! Prime Studybreak at only $4.19/lb.l 
Wednesday at Alumni Senior Club 10pm I need a ride to Madison badly!! Will pay for gas and tolls. Please call Jon x-1858. 
MARKETING CLUB Meeting 
TONIGHT-Wed. 10/16 Committee meetings come to as you'd like! 
7:00 Social 
7:15 Fundraiser 
7:30 Resume Book 
7:45 Speaker Series 
Lower lounge of COBA -call 1-9330 with questions 
Spring Break Bahamas Party Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All 
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great 
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices 
Increase Soon -Save $50! spring­
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From South Bend $419! Increase Soon ­Save $50! Save $150 On Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Chestnut House B&B, St. Joseph, MI. 
Elegantly decorated home over­looking Lake Michigan and only 40 mins. frorn ND. Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­vate baths, full breakfasts & hers d'oeuvres served fireside. (616) 983-7413. 
Stepan Center Court Time 
scheduling meeting for any 
organizations wanting to reserve 
weekly court time at Stepan: 
Wednesday, Oct. 16 
4pm -Montgomery Theatre 
1st Floor LaFortune. 
Buster's Prebreak Haiku: Bye-Bye to SA 
Friend game, d-hall, and Busch Light (Sorry Hynes) 
We'll keep a light on 
Halloween Extravaganza Sponsored by Carroll and Knott Thur-Haunted House 
Fri-Frightening Formal Sat-Spooky Shindig (Live Band & 
Costume Contest) Helping to connect the campus 
Raffle for Bulls Tickets and a Lou Holtz autographed football!! Chanes available at Carroll Hall Concession Stand vs. Air Force (@Dillon) and South Dining Hall 
W.B.­There have been lovers who thought love should be, So much compounded of high cour­tesy, That they would sigh and quote with learned looks, Precedents out of beautiful old books; Yet now it seems an idle trade enough ... Maud 
A, L, J, S, H --Wha ha happen wuz... I met these kool kids at school. Have a great break!!! Will miss ya!!! L and H, check temps on page 2. Krupa 
Props to 5a: Past Present and Honorary. 
The time is right. Don't be like Pete and just let the window pass. 
Props to the Dysfunctional Tusstertons: Daan, Nelson, Buster, Animal, and What is. 

Wednesday, October 16, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Melinda (Mindy) Oxenford, a junior from Platteville, WI, is cur­rently enrolled in her third semester of Shorin-Ryu Karate. Having never studied martial arts until her arrival at Notre Dame, Mindy has already progressed from a ninth kyu white belt to a fourth kyu green belt. She is also a member of the Breen-Phillips lnterhall Softball Team; the team that won the IH Championship in the spring of 1996, and she has recently become a member of the newly formed RecSports Bowling Club. Mindy, who is set to graduate in January of 1998, is currently majoring 1n Science/Pre-Professionalism and minoring in Theology. 
Recipients receive ([:~ merchandise from the 

VARSITY SHOP
.._.., 
"Specializing in Authentic 
• 

Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(J Center) 



VARSITY SHOP 
.... 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Bring this coupon into 
the Varsity Shop and 
save 20°/o off of any 
<r~ 


merchandise! 

For More Information Call 631-6100 
Look for this award to appear in The Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (I:~ 
merchandise courtesy of (I:~ and the 
';i.; located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
VARSITY sHoP is open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560) 
'liFt' 


• 

.. : 
Wednesday, October 16, 1996 
• COllEGE fOOTBAll 



Buckeyes overcome hostile crowds in key victories 
By RUSTY MILLER 
Associated Press Writer 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Only once in the last 100 years has Ohio State had to play as many as four road games in five weeks. 
But the current Buckeyes can take heart that Ohio State last traveled this much in 1984 ­the last time they traveled to the Rose Bowl. 
"From a coach's standpoint, you'd rather have games home, away, home, away," coach John Cooper said Tuesday. "It's worked to our advantage so far. We played four of the first five at home, we play four out of the next five on the road." 
It's not like the Buckeyes need a hostile environment to get their attention this week when they travel to Purdue. Wisconsin did that last week, even in front of an Ohio Stadium crowd of more than 94,000. 
The Badgers led 14-10 in the fourth quarter and had three possessions after the Buckeyes took a 17-14 lead on Dimitrious Stanley's clutch catch and sprint for a 48-yard score with 8:51 re­maining. 
"I think there's been some teams that I've coached around here the past few years that probably would have -the way we played al)d the way Wisconsin played -probably would have found a way to lose that game," Cooper said. 
Even though the second­ranked Buckeyes remained unbeaten at 5-0 and moved to 2­0 in the Big Ten, Cooper spoke almost as if his team had lost. 
He blasted his kickers. Josh Jackson had a field goal attempt blocked and Mike Malfatt's kick­off after the last Ohio State touchdown floated to the Wisconsin 19 and was returned 17 yards. Kickoffs have been an ongoing problem in recent years, seldom getting inside the 15 -let alone to the end zone. 
Furthermore, Ohio State has 
not kicked a field goal longer 
than 39 yards in three years. 
The Buckeyes haven't even 
attempted one that far in their 
last 18 games. 
''I'm not disappointed a little 
bit, I'm disappointed a lot," 
Cooper said of his kicking game. 
"Those guys on scholarship, all 
they do is kick. And they're 
expected to perform. They've 





STUDENT ART EXHIBIT 
Participants must be a ND/SMC student. Only fl~t works will be accepted (drawings, design, photography, painting} with a maximum size of 3'x3'. 
The exhibit will be shown in the Sorin Room at the LaFortune Student Center N ove:mber 4-8. 
Purchase prizes, starling at $200, will be awarded. 
Applications available in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune. 
Special Thanks to: Alumni Association, Snite Museum, and the Student Activities Office for their donations to the purchase prize awards. 
got a job to do and they're end of the deal right now," said Cooper also said he was disap­consistently not doing it." Cooper, who questioned pointed his defense never seems 
He criticized flanker Buster Tillman's practice habits after to turn a turnover into points Tillman, who dropped one pass Saturday's game. like Wisconsin did on Huntley's and fumbled another that Cooper said he would evaluate fumble return. Wisconsin free safety Kevin the position based on this week's The bottom line, he said, was Huntley scooped up and practices and said he hoped to it was almost immaterial what returned 36 yards for the go­get more playing time for fresh­other teams did if his team ahead TD early in the fourth men David Boston and Michael played wei~. Over the next five quarter. Wiley. weeks, the Buckeyes travel to 
"Dimitrious Stanley has been "Obviously, if we get those Purdue, Iowa, Illinois and Big Ten player of the week the guys on the field, then somebody Indiana with a home game last two ball games. But the else is going to be off the field," against Minnesota sandwiched other side is not holding up their he said. in the middle. 


• 
MY GAL SUNDAY CINDY CRAWFORD'S THE LAWS OF 
Mary Higgins Clark BASIC FACE OUR FATHERS 
Simon & Schuster-HC Cindy Crawford Scott Turow List 22.00 Broadway -HC Farrar, Straus & Giroux -HC List 25.00 List 26.95 
35o/o OFF ALL NEW YOaK fiMIS HARDCOVER BESTSELLERS 



32 BITS OF GAME PLAY 
POWER! INCLUDES 
PLAYSTATION SYSTEM. 
ONE CUSTOM 
CONTROLLER, AC 
POWER CABLE AND 
STEREO AV CABLE. 
MECH WARRIOR 
2 MERCENARIES 
CD-ROM 
Sale ends October 24, 1996. 
Wilshire Plaza, South Bend, 271-0696 

STORE HOURS MON·SAT: 1 OAM· 1 OPM, SUN: 1 1 AM-7PM 




r---------------------------~--~------------------------------~----------~----------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, October 16, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll • COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Paterno confident about offense Harrick cleared of 
By DAVEIVEY right now," he said. ''I'm not as aged just seven points, six first Associated Press W rirer emotional about it now as I was downs and 144 yards in the sec­on Saturday after the game. ond half. 
possible violations

STATE COLLEGE, Pa. Overall, I think we played pretty Wally Richardson still appears 
Joe Paterno said he had changed his mind about how good No. 10 Penn State's offense is after watching game film. 
Immediately after his team's 31-14 victory Saturday over Purdun, Paterno said the Nittany Lions (6-1, 2-1 Big Ten) were "gonna struggle if we do not get better because right now, we're not very good." 
But Tuesday, after reviewing the tapes in preparation for this weekend's home game against Iowa (4-1, 2-0), his opinion had softmwd. 
"I think wn'rn pretty good 
well offensively." 
Good enough to deserve to be 
in the top 10'? 

"I don't know. But if you're 
going to go by accomplishments, 
then we've probably got as 
much right to be in the top 10 as 
anyone," he said. "We've beaten 
some pretty good football 
teams." 

Paterno did say the offense 
needs to be more consistent. 'After the Lions outscored the Boilermakers 24-0 in the open­ing half, getting 252 total yards and 16 first downs, they man-
to be struggling (seven intercep­tions and three touchdown pass­es this season) with inexperi­enced wide receivers and an injury-prone offensive line. Richardson is averaging 134.3 yards passing per game, com­pared to 183.1 yards per game in 1995. 
Sitting out the Purdue game was leading receiver Joe Jurevicius, who was benched for skipping classes. 
"That's over. That's behind us now," Paterno said. "Although Joe will have to fight (Chris) Campbell for playing time now." 
Are You Interestea in Tutoring Little Kids? 
The Neighborhood Study-Help Program is looking for volunteers to tutor twice a week at the following times. 
Monday /Wednesday: 
2':30-3:30 Darden Swanson 

Contact: Allen McWalters x3331 Susan Grondin x4268 

Tuesday/Thursday: 
4:30-5:30 Northwest 
Contact: Cindy Cicon x287 4 
Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 
UCLA basketball coach Jim 
Harrick has reportedly been 
cleared of violating NCAA rules 
in the sale of a car he owned to 
the sister of a top recruit. 
Neither the Pacific-10 nor 
UCLA would comment Tuesday 
on reports that a conference 
investigation had not turned up 
any wrongdoing by the Bruins 
coach. 
Both the conference and the university have been looking into the sale of a car by Harrick's son, Glenn, to Lisa Hodoh on Sept. 20. 
The sale came two days after Baron Davis, the woman's younger brother, verbally com­mitted to play for the Bruins. Davis is a highly recruited 6­foot-1 point guard who began his senior year at Santa Monica Crossroads High last month. 
Jim Muldoon, the Pac-10's assistant commissioner. said from his Walnut Creek, Calif., office he could neither confirm nor deny the reports in 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Challenge U Fitness Classes are half price fol­lowing October Break. Spots are still open in some classes. Call the RecSports office for moreJnfo. 
The men's varsity basket­ball team will be conducting try-outs for all walk-ons on October 16th and 17th. Players are expected to attend 
Tuesday's editions of the Los 
Angeles Daily News and South 
Bay Daily Breeze. 
"We expect the investigation 
to be concluded by the end of 
the week, that's the only com­
ment I can make at this time," 
Muldoon said. "The process is 
not quite completed." 
UCLA sports information director Marc Dellins said the school would not comment until it hears from the Pac-1 0. 
Both newspapers quoted sources as saying nothing seri­ous had been uncovered by the investigation into allegations that UCLA violated NCM rules against providing extra benefits to recruits. 
The Daily News said llarriek might be reprimanded by athlet­ic director Peter Dalis f(:>r failing to report the sale after finding out about it. If the reports am correct, Davis will be eligible to play for the Bruins as a fresh­man in the 1997-98 season. 
"We feel good, really good," an unidentified UCLA official was quoted as saying by the Daily News. 
both the 7:30-9:30 p.m. session in the Joyce Center on the 16th and the 6:30 p.m. session in the auxilliary gym (The Pit) on the 17th. • 
Bowling Club-Last Week to join RecSports Campus Bowling League. This Thursday at 9 p.m. Call Jason at 4-1883 with questions. 




While you're home enjoying your fall break, remember those less fortunate than you by donating your old winter jackets when you get back to campus. 
• ! 
r--·~~--­1 
I page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 16, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
I Waiting game continues for banged-up Yankees 
I 
By TOM WITHERS 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 

Joe Torre was still receiving hugs, handshakes and congrat­ulatory phone calls when the questions started flying. 
"Joe, will you use a three-or four-man rotation?" 
"How's Strawberry's toe?" 

"Joe, is Kenny Rogers OK physically?" "Did you watch the game last night, Joe?" 
Torre returned to work Tuesday the same man but a different manager. He wasn't just in charge of the New York Yankees, he was the man lead­ing the New York Yankees into the World Series. 
And, boy, was there work to be done. 
Football 
continued from page 16 
seen a position improve as much from the time they re­ported in the fall to where they are right now as our receiving corps has," said Holtz. "Just watching them practice yester­day, they don't look like the same group as they did three, four weeks ago." 
But with the apparent return to a more run-oriented offense, just how much will this improvement mean to the 
The Yankees still don't know if they'll be playing host to the Atlanta Braves or St. Louis Cardinals in Game 1 on Saturday night. But after a day off following a long night of cel­ebrating their series win over Baltimore, the Yankees worked out for nearly three hours Tuesday at Yankee Stadium. 
There was batting practice for the regulars and batting (if you could call it that), bunting and baserunning practice for the pitchers, some of whom hadn't picked up a bat in 15 years. 
''I'm getting a little taste of what it's like today," Torre said of his first World Series experi­ence in more than three decades as a player and man­ager. "This is what it's all about." 
The Yankees have the fortune 

Irish? 
"If we can get the caliber of receivers and the maturity to beat man-to-man coverage and our quarterback can deliver the ball like I think Ron Powlus can, then I think we can con­tinue to do that," said Holtz when asked if the Blarney offense is "dying a natural death." 
"But I do think we always have to keep a. semblance of power football and option foot­ball in our game package to discourage strict man-cover­age." 
UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES 
Mathematics Library 
Information needs in Math, Applied Math, Mathematical aspects of Biology, Chemistry, Economics, Engineering, or Physics are found in a new resource purchased by the Library. MathSciNet is available to anyone using a web browser on a computer attached · to the Notre Dame network. 
The URL is: http://www .ams.org/mathscinet 
No password is needed! 
A World ofInformation at Your Fingertips 
of having five days to get all their players healthy. Outfielders Tim Raines and Paul O'Neill and second base­man Mariano Duncan are all nursing sore hamstrings. And Darryl Strawberry thinks he has a broken toe despite nega­tive X-rays. 
Strawberry limped into the ballpark again for treatments on Tuesday and didn't partic­ipate in the workout. 
"It's a little better," Strawberry said. "I've got to go for more tests tomorrow. It feels worse than a bruise." 
With camera crews and re­porters ringing the field, Torre emerged from the dugout to watch his team practice. There was someone else watching the Yankees, too. 

George Steinbrenner, con­spicuously absent in Baltimore when the Yankees captured their first AL pennant since 1981 on Sunday night, talked to Torre behind the batting cage along with batting coach Chris Chambliss. 
The principal owner only offered a "We're here" before leaving the field. 
Torre hasn't named his Game 1 starter yet and said he was planning to meet with his coaches before deciding on which rotation he would use. He planned on a three-man staff-Andy Pettitte, David Cone and Jimmy Key -for the 
Today., Wednesday., October 16 
Baltimore series, but a Game 1 rainout forced him to start inconsistent Kenny Rogers in Game 4. 
"I favor a four-man rotation, I think it's healthier," Torre said. "It's ·easier when you pitch someone in the first game and you can pitch him again three or four days later. It's safer, but I'm not sure if we're going to do it. ... It would be a contingency thing if we have to go with a three-man rotation." 
The Yankee.s won Rogers' start against the Orioles despite the left-bander's second shaky playoff outing. He lasted just three innings in Baltimore after pitching only two in the open­ing-round series against Texas. 


For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group A-dvisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan., C.S.C Sr. M.L. Gude., C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 


All students interested in the Urban Plunge Program, initial information and applications are now available through the Center for Social Concerns. 
Please contact the Center for any further questions at 631~5293. Also feel free to converse with a Task Force member about the Urban Plunge experience. 

Urban Plunge Task Force 

Jennifer Breslow Yvette Piggush Stephen Ponzello Erik Paulson Megan Pomrink Jamiko Rose Rebeccah Sanders Jason Timmermann Anne Werring ~ Saint Mary's 
esc 
C E N T E R F 0 R 



SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Bill Whitman Missy Byerly Erin Clary Kathy Conlon Kelly Goss Michell Holden Kristi Kilday Catherine Marciano ~ Saint Mary's Amabella Martinez Lauren O'Brien 

......-----------------~-~-.._.,...-~~-.--...........--~__,.......-~--­
l 
Wednesday, October 16, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 I 
. I 
MIXED MEDIA 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 



HAI'I'\' HIRTHDA Y! IN TilE NEXT YEAR OF \'O!IR LIFE: l'ak,· >lock of your profc>sHmal and personal lik bcrore >cltmg nc" pri oriiiL'' l:xciting t.'i.m:er oppm1umtic~ will ari~L' in the coming month.\. 
Medillllion will help you make wi;e (hOi(C,. Consult a (orpora\c head­hunter ir searching ror a more chal· lenging position. Fresh financial gain> accrue early in 1997. Fehruar) and Mar(h reature run and romance. Subrntt a manuscript or ani>tic cre­ation next June. A coveted prize or bonus could have your name on it 1 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS OA Y: playwright Arthur Miller. actress Margot Kidder. motorcycle stunt performer Evel 
MIKE PETERS 
Knievel. movie star Rita Haywonh. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): The emphasis now is on accumulat­ing savings. Instigate ;mall economies. Make sure you have ade4ua1e coverage for your house­hold and personal needs. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20!: Someone·s behavior is confu>ing. Take off tho'e rmc-colored gla~ses and 'ee people as they really are. 1r bored at a social event. slip out early and go home A phone call will bring uelighi. 
GEMINI I May 21-June 20): It takes time 10 do things right. An unconventional approach may not work. Welcome new ideas even if they come from the inexperienced. Take the initiative in reconciling with a parent or sihling. 
CANCER (June 21 -July 22 ):
SCOTT ADAMS 
Promote harmony al both home and 
work. Productivity rises when you 
and your co-worker; are in sync.
u WHAT'S 
IT'S YOUR 
Your charm works wonders with
= 
"THE. 
\HONG BIKINI. 
new associates. Business travel proves lucrative and fun.
YOU'Ll STAND

DENI~L 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Creative and ;LJ1i;tic projects are favored. Do some comparison shopping before 
IN fRONT OF
FLOSS 
OUR CO~PETITOR'5
FOR? 
purcha,ing a computer or other elec-
BOOTH.
I 
\nll\11.. ~ll\11\'\\h.'n\ B\1~ on 110\l' 1\ llt:l"l'\..,ill"\ 
\'IIH;o 1Aug. 21-S,·pt ~21. o\11 l'\f..:l'llent ttmt· for buvin~ and \L'IItn~ r..:alt'\l<llt' .-\\oid cla~~hr;1g \\ 11!1 ytn;r lll~IIC: or p;tnncr whl'I"L' rtllilllt'ttll j,~LIL'\ arc con,,:~:rncJ. l<otlldiH..'I...' will o;ulkr 11 a lm~d on~ think' that yn11 ar~ un;ympailwtic. 
LIBRA tSept. D-Oct. 221: Sc,·k L'llllllllOn pround when Uealing \\lilt a Jillicult child. Encourage the 'liar· in~ of idea' and intere;t~. You and )'(~llr romantic partner are on the· -;ame wavelencth. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 21-No\. 21 1: Lei a false 'tall or verbal slip work to your adv;mtage. Others will he awed by your ability to put Humpl)­Dumpty back together again' Con­fide in close friend,. 
SA<;Il'TARilJS !Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): Finan,·ial mailers and influen­tial people demand ) our allention thi> morning. Use your razor-shaq1 mind to pull oil a master ;tro~c. Romance need' more time to mature. 
l'AI'Ril'ORN iDee 22-Jan 1'.11: Refuse tn he ihnmn by \lllllC· one·, pm'e"i'c attiiiiCk. Stale yolll pmition 4uietl~ but lirmly. Busine" a;so,·iates re,pect your executi\ e abilities. 
AQUARil1S (Jan. 20-Feb. IHJ: Make better use of your talents and brain power A challenging assign­ment JS your vehicle to succe". Do not forget to share the credit with a suboruinale. The two of vou make a terri fie team~ · 
PISCES tFeb. ll)-~1arch 201 Get the latest racts and figure; before makmg an imponanl finan· cial decision. Proviutng timcl) answers will impress higher-up,. Work pressures lighten. Yout romantic panner is in your corner Show apprec·iation ror an) 'pccial fa\Ors. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
OUR CON5ULTI\NT 
5UGGE5TE.D PUTTING 
ATTRACTlVE WOI"\EN IN OUR BOOIH ,C..T THE TRADE SHOW. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Old math atds 6 The color of honey 
10 Leave off 14 Play salesman 15 "The Morning 
Watch" author 16 Polaris bear 17 Light-headed? 18 Patricia of 
"Hud" 19 Culture site 20 Opinions of 
Greg Louganis? 23 Skater's leap 24 Shadow 25 Barker of 40's 
films 28 "Cheerio, Luciano!" 30 Drug shipment 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

E 
0 
..u 
:g 
E 
!·;: 
:I 

I REJECTED THAT 
IDE.A. lT I5 5D.l5T 
AND DE.t-\EA.NING. I 
H.C..VE A BE1TER IDEA TO INCREASE TRAFFIC 
"TO OUR 
BOOTt\. 
•.OF INTEREST 
•w·0A Van .... Training Session will be held tonight at 
· ' 
:~t~~ escat s p.m. }.Ex.;Wre.stlers interested in volunteering for a Cat~~li~.gr&.de school's wrestling program are needed twice aweek starting in December. Call Tom Dolly at 
255~0137)J\i;i 

North 
Hamburger Soup Roast Top Sirloin of Beef Grilled Sole Stuffed Shells 
Saint Mary's 
Beef Tacos 

44 Murderous 51 Part of B.T.U. 45 Wagnerian title 52 Perfumer-­

Wanted: Reporters, 

woman Ricci 47"--Mood" 53 Ebb (1940 hit) 54 Abel's "Green 

photographers and 

49 The eyes have Mansions" love them 55 Arouse so Kit's mitts 59 U.F.O. pilots 

editors. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 

Join The Observer

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 

33 Cockpit reading: Abbr. 
34 Speck 
35 "Sweet Lavender" playwright 
37 What a Beach Boy's firecracker might do? 
40 Loot 
41 Tiny ringing sound 
42 Speck 
43 Seat of Jackson County, Tex. 
44Soupbean 45 Colon's meanmg, in analogies 46 Foreign friend 
48 Btrds in herds 

50 Qualities of Bennett Cerf's food? 
56 Dyeing plant 57 Spicy cuisine 58 Cream of the 
crop 60 Port, e.g. 61 Sports period 62 Own up (to) 63 Pentagram 64Vogue 
competitor 65 Erstwhile catalogue 
DOWN 
1 Celebrant's robe 2 Forward 3 Marne mine 4 Sailcloth 
5 End table? 6 Nerve center 7 Kind of arch 

8 Hobo's shelter 9 It may be found around the mouth 10 Showing 
cowardice 11 Exhort 12 Second of an 
ancient trio 13 Gobs 21 Right-hand 
pages 22 Hagar of the comics, e.g. 25 Binges 


26Abscond 27 Bore 29 Violinist's 
heirloom 31 City on the Aire 32 "Ready--, 
here I come!'' 34 Blazing 35 Hat made from 
jipijapa 36 Conductor 
Klemperer 38 Crafty one 39 Source of many 
book series 


If you thought there was a slight connection between striking a loved one, vandalizing property, getting arrested, throwing up, getting injured, ruining relationships, and artichokes, you would probably stop eating artichokes .... 
Do any of these things happen when you drink alcohol? Then maybe it is time you stop. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 


~---~--,---------~ ----~---------------------------------, 





l . 
SPORTS 
page 16 Wednesday, October 16, 1996 
• FooTBAll 
Falcons -wishbone new test for defensive front seven 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assistant Spans Editor 
Coming off of a 54-20 thrash­ing of then sixteenth-ranked Washington, Notre Dame foot­ball coach Lou Holtz is quite a bit more composed now than he had been going into the game. There is, however, one thing which may have him tossing and turning in the nights leading up to this Saturday's game against 3-2 Air Force. 
The wishbone. 
In fact, it scares Holtz. 

"I am scared to death on every Saturday, particularly against the wishbone," said Holtz in his press conference yesterday afternoon. 
Holtz's fears lie as much in unfamiliarity as they do in first hand knowledge. 
"We haven't seen the wish­bone," said Holtz. "This is going to be a new experience for our players." 
While the players haven't seen the wishbone attack up close since last year's 44-14 romp over the Falcons, Holtz himself knows all about it. 
"One time when I first came here and Air Force had beaten us four straight years, we had a little bit of an advantage because with Tony Rice and some of them, we ran a little bit of the wishbone," continued Holtz. "Then, we had a chance to practice a little against it all spring. Now this is completely different." 
With the loss of Thomas Krug to injury, the Irish can't afford to put option-oriented backup Jarious Jackson on the scout team to replicate Air Force's attack, as he would be missing valuable work with the second team offense. 
But Holtz is convinced that it 

really doesn't matter. He 

• SMC SoccER 


Belles hope to improve against Bethel 
By KELLY COUGHLIN Sports Writer 
After a disappointing week, the Saint Mary's soccer team hopes to bounce back into action today against Bethel College. Recent offensive weaknesses have dampered any attempt in scoring for the Belles. 
Hoping to leave these recent struggles behind, the Belles remain focused on containing their opposition throughout today's ninety minutes of play. A great deal of dependence will fall upon the leadership of captains Eileen Newell, Jolie Pokorny, and Keary Sullivan, who have been key contribu­tors throughout the Belles' season. 
The Belles will go into to­day's contest 3-10-1, hoping to improve on their record. The game will be held at 4PM 

The Observer/Rachael Sederberg behind Angela Facilities. Saint Mary's at 3-10-1 looks to turn things around today vs. Bethel College. The game is at 4 p.m . 

vs. Air Force at Arizona Invitational 
October 19, 1:30 p.m. 
~ October 19 ~
•"' 
knows that you can't really imitate Air Force's option engi­neer, quarterback Beau Morgan. 
"I think Beau Morgan is one of the better option quarter­backs I have ever seen," said Holtz of the senior quarter­back, whose 113.4 yards per game average is currently 17th best in the nation. "You aren't going to stop Beau Morgan; you aren't going to shut him 
ff .. 
0 . 
The Irish were able to shut Morgan off in last year's victo­ry, holding him to just 40 yards on 10 carries, but Holtz fears that this year's game will differ from last season. 
"It has been my experience that when you go against an offense of this nature, if you have some degree of success one year, you can bet your bot­tom dollar you may not have as much success the next year because they have studied you for the past year," said Holtz. 
But with a revamped run defense that has been stifling towards much of the opposi­tion this season, it's hard to imagine the Falcons gaining their customary 354 yards on the ground against the Irish. 
"I think it helps us to have people like Kory Minor and Bert Berry on the ends that can run and Tatum and Cobbins inside that can run, and Renaldo (Wynn) and (Melvin) Dansby," said Holtz of his speedy defense. "I wish our safeties ran a little bit bet­ttJr because I think that is going to be important." 
Also of importance to Holtz and the Irish will be art improvement in the Irish kick­ing game, particularly in kick­off coverage. 
"The area that I am greatly concerned about is the kicking game," said Holtz. "Air Force is very, very solid and I am 20 points not because of our worried about their kickoff defense, but because of our return and our kickoff cover­failure to field punts, failure to age, which is something I cover kickoffs adequately and haven't worried about in the our failure to hang on to the past. ball consistently. I think our 
"Tl'i.e thing I told the football defense was put in poor field team yesterday is that we are position way too many times playing too good a defense to last week and has been the 
give up 20 points. We gave up entire year." 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Defensive tackle Melvin Dansby will need to play well to shut down the wishbone offense on Saturday. 
IRISH NOTES 
The Irish receiving corps was seemingly reborn last weekend in the Washington game, a revival which has left Holtz feeling a little better about Ron Powlus' targets. 
"I don't think I have ever 
Weekend lnterhall Results 
:;:~~~%·=--------­
Men's Blue Division Off-Campus 7 Keenan 
M.... or_risse~ \ L\ ~lanner 0
Dillion 8"\t -' ~Keough 7 


~~~~d(
S(dh 4 Carrpli'iJAlUm i 3 Zall.u::q 
--............-.....CA -Jt)
•oom 's Blue DJv(si9nWalsh 0 Pangborn 0 Lyons 12 Cavanaugh 0 B.P. 9 Badin 0 
Women's Gold Division Siegfried 7 P.W. 0 P.E. 12 Lewis 6 Off·Campus 6 Knott 0 
.·;w~::·· 
ttir over St. Ed's by forfeit 
TWJl;t The Observer/Jon Kin 
•Bruins escape unscathed from probe 
vs. Rutgers 
at Central Collegiate 
~

I 
~ October 20, 1 p.m. 
~ Conference, October 18 see page 13
(•'

i • 
at West Virginia 
Soccer vs Bethel Co lege

t 
••r/J •Ohio State "Road Warriors"
~ October 19, 2 p.m. 
~ 
Today, 4 p.m ..

I see page 12 Volleyball at Heidelberg 
I 
October 18, 7 p.m. 
~ ~ 

! 
: . 





