
Monday, September 9, 1996 • Vol. XXX No.9 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Security ups patrols after three campus attacks 
By LIZ FORAN 
Editor-in-Chief 
An outbreak of assaults on campus over the past weekend has prompted warnings from Notre Dame Security about safety on campus, according to Chuck llurlfJy, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. 
llurh~y warned students to be cautious wlwn walking on campus at night and to report any suspidous persons or activi­ties to Security immediately. 
Thme incidents involving four on-cam­pus students and an outside vendor led to three of the victims being treated for minor injuries. 
At 2:50 a.m. Friday, a Keenan Ilall res­ident and a Morriss11y I tall resident were walking from the area of the East Gate towards Keenan IIall. A group of eight or nine men near the Stepan Courts began taunting them with derogatory remarks about Notre Dame, Hurley said. 
The group followed the students and surroumled them near North Dining llall, wlwrn one of the students was hit twice from bd1ind in the head with a bottle. Tlw other was knocked to the ground and kiekr.d in the ribs, Hurley said. The suspects then ran away. 
Only two suspects were described, one lwing a Hispanic male, 5'8", 180 lbs. and about 17-18-years-old, with dark hair and no facial hair. The other was a white male, 5'11", 175lbs., also 17-18-years­old, with short brown hair and a "scrag­gly" goatee and a small silver looped ear­ring in his left ear. 
The victims said they thought the sus­pects had been playing basketball before the incident, Hurley added. 
In another incident, two Stanford Hall residents were standing outside of LaFortune Student Center at about 12:17 
a.m. Saturday. 

They asked two passers-by for a "cou­ple of extra quarters," according to Hurley. An argument then ensued, and one of the suspects knocked one of the students to the ground. . 
The student suffered bleeding from the nose and had a large cut on the right side of his head, Hurley said. The student was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center, where he was treated and released. 
The suspect was described as a white male, 6'2" with a muscular build, short black hair, wearing a white t-shirt. The victim said he thought the suspect may have been a student. 
An outside vendor was also attacked early Sunday morning as he was deliver­ing newspapers around the campus. The vendor was attacked by a man who was trying to steal his bicycle, Hurley said. 
Security advises 0-C students 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 

To complement its warning regard­
ing on-campus safety, Notre Dame 
Security is advising off-campus stu­
dents to exercise caution while travel­
ing around South Bend. 

The advisement comes in light of two 
recent shootings at locations near 
areas where off-campus students live. 
Gunshots were reported on the night of Sept. 1 near the 7-Eleven Food Store, 323 N. Eddy St .. at the intersec· tion of Madison and Eddy streets. The shots were reportedly self-inflicted, according to Sgt. John Williams of the South Bend Police Department's public information office. 
Earlier that evening, a South Bend police officer was patrolling in the area 
Paul Smallmon, 27, an employee of Shamrock News, said he was attacked about 6 a.m. Sunday just as he had fin­ished delivering newspapers to Zahm Hall. 
According to Smallmon, he had just of Hill and Crtlscent streets when he heard shots fired. A police investiga· tion led to the arrest of two local resi· dents, neither of whom were connected with Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
Police arrested an 18-year-old man on a charge of criminal recklessness and a 21-year-old man on a charge of assisting a criminal. Williams said. 
No one was injured in the shooting. 
Chuck Hurley, assistant director of Notre Dame Security, said oll'-campus students should be alert when walking in those neighborhoods during night· time hours. 
"We would recommend that students not walk to and from campus from the downtown area.'' Hurley said. "Once it gets dark, our students need to be very careful, especially the people who don't really know the area there." 
returned to his pick-up truck and was 
about to start the engine when he heard 
noises from the rear of his truck. 
A white male -described as 5'11", in 
see ATTACKS I page 4 



Nice catch! COBA dean to step do-wn after 9 years 
ByJOHN DE BOY News Wrirer 
Next August, the College of Business Administration will mark the onset of a crucial tran­sition period when, after almost nine years of service, John Keane will step down as the col­lege's dean. 
According to Timothy O'Meara, Notre Dame's provost emeritus, Keane's leadership has made several significant contributions to the growth of the business school in recent years. 
"Jack has provided much­grown from 86 to 97 and its
needed leadership during a crit­number of endowed chairs has
ical time of change in the increased from five to 10.
College of Business Additionally, Keane helped
Administration," O'Meara said. 
oversee the planning and con­"The college has grown in many struction of the college's newdimensions under his direction state-of-the-art building, whichthrough the past seven-and-a­opened in the fall of 1995. 

half years." 

The Observer/Mike Ruma For Keane, 66, assuming lead-
During Keane's tenure as
Mike Kowalsky tosses the clubs to fellow jugglers Partick Mousaw, David LaHeist, and Tim Mousaw. 
dean, the College of Business Administration's faculty has see KEANE I page 4 

• ElECTION '96


Forum stresses serious 
esc election series begins today 
thought before voting 
Observer Staff Report 

By MAUREEN HURLEY issues, presidential candidates 
• FAST FACTS 
AsS<Ili.ue N~ws Editor and critical political decisions 
A weekly series at Notre

facing the United States -and 
Dame focusing on the 1996 

WHAT: "The 1996 Elections and the Common Good"
As nlnetion time approaches, their relation to Catholic social 
election will begin Monday at 

it is essnntial that individuals justice teaching. 
WHEN: Monday afternoon, 4 p.m.
the auditorium of the Center for 

look to their own core values McKillip stressed the impor­
Continuing Education. 

WHERE: Center for Continuing Education auditorium
and lwlids wlwn choosing their tance of demanding increased 
The series, "The 1996

niPdml offieials, according to discourse from the parties, 
Elections and the Common 

OF NoTE: Professors Peri Arnold and John Roos
NI~TWOHK, a Catholic social claiming, "This is an election 
Good," will allow Notre Dame 

j ustiee lobby. where we're finding that the 
present the first installment of a weekly series. They
faculty members to present

NI~TWOHK's Organizer, candidates are not saying much 
their ideas on all facets of the 

will focus on the concepts of leadership and gover­
Sistnr Hegina McKillip, was on of anything. We need to 
coming elections. 

the Saint Mary's campus demand that the candidates 
nance.
"We are very excited about

Saturday morning, presenting start adressing the issues." 
this series," said Kathleen Mass 

llw 1\lnetion '96 workshop in Keeping in line with the glob­
Weigert, an associate director with the issues of this election." present the first installment at 
eonj unetion with the Sisters of al seope of the Sisters of the Peri Arnold, director of the 4 p.m. Monday. They will focus
of the Center for Social 

the lloly Cross. Holy Cross' service, McKillip 
Concerns, one of the sponsors Hesburgh Program in Public on the concepts of leadership
Tlw focus of the three-hour said, "We truly are a global 
of the series. "It presents the Service and professor of gov­and governance.
workshop was to provide cur­
campus with a sustained oppor­ernment, and John Roos, also a 
rent information on federal 
see FORUM I page 4 tunity to get more conversant professor of government, will see ELECTION I page 4 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Monday, September 9, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Walking the line 
I had an interesting 
conversation in my  Catherine Deely  
dorm elevator the other  Accem Copy Editor  
day. A freshman in my  

section, with whom I'd exchanged a hundred rushed smiles but had never actually met, introduced herself. "I recognize you," she exclaimed,"You're always on the phone in the hallway!" Yes, I concurred-that would be my floorwide claim to fame. She paused for a moment, then ventured,"Are you usually talk­ing to your friends from home?'' Yep, I said­always. "Oh. good," she breathed. "I thought I was the only one." Then, determinedly, she concluded, "I'm NOT going to lose touch with them." 
And I was struck with a sudden conviction: good for her. She shouldn't have to. 
It is a juggling act faced by every student attending a college considerably outside the parameters of the home front. Freshman year, you are bombarded with the message, over and over again: while you may not real­ize it now, college WILL become your home. The friends you make here will, slowly but surely, come to fill and eventually take over the gaping hole once occupied by the familiar faces of high school days. College will become your new life, your true life, YOU. Things will never again even slightly mirror how they used to be. 
And in a way, these seemingly harsh and unthinkable declarations somehow make you think they're true. 
You feel guilty amassing a phone bill with your hometown crowd, because a tiny, screeching voice in your head nags that such activity suggests you're not 110% adjusted to your sparkling new n' improved life. Yet when you set foot on home soil to begin your long, luxurious, much-anticipated break, the guilt bends back upon itself: you're supposed to be diving right into Glory Days, and still, you can't help babbling on boastfully about every great moment you've had "back at school." And with such braggadocio confidence ... how can it POSSIBLY be right to feel anything less than ecstatic enthusiasm when the time inevitably arrives to return to Papa John's and pep rallies ... to leave How Things Were behind once more? 
It has taken me, personally, well over a year to stop the ongoing ping pong tournament in my head and my heart... to realize that it's OK for the "adjustment process" never to fully reach a conclusion. College IS great. The friends I've made here and the experiences, illustrious and notorious by turn, we've shared deserve all the appreciation in the world. But I will never expect or allow that world to intrude upon, or replace, the one I return to every time my plane lands for Christmas or I pick up the phone when it's ringing double. There is a virtual treasure trove of stories, memories, and me stored in that world, and I simply refuse to let it go. 
So, freshmen, even if you really are having more incredibly outrageous fun than the glossy college guidebooks could have planted in your dreams, don't linger in a second of hesitation when the impulse to break in your CBLD card strikes. There is no correct scien­tific division between Devotion to College and Devotion to Home-it's all in how you feel. Write those ten-page letters, drag that phone (albeit quietly) out into the hallway at 3 AM; I promise you, you'll never be the only one. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TmlAY's STAFF  
News Heather Cocks Brad Prendergast  Accent Melissa DeRosa Rachel Torres  
Spons Mike Day Graphics Sue O'Kain  Production Heather Cocks Tara Grieshop Lab Tech Katie Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

• WORW AT A GLANCE 
Unemployment rate drops; stock exchanges fight new bill 
would make it easier for
Market roundup 
investors to sue companies
WASHINGTON 

_[ 12 mo11J!!B..=~~ Jones ci.Q.'!e!} 
6100 
for securities fraud. 

The nation's unemployment 
rate plunged to a seven-year 
5875 

... 
/v...il 
N'!.

low of 5.1 percent in August, 
5650

11l)

the government said in a 
5659.86 
5425 
·­
+43.65

report hailed by President 
l
. 
5200

Clinton on the campaign trail. 
/ ... 11.1
for the week 
4975

Economists said the drop, 
e~~~:.!re~a,, 
l.r./
. 
4750

from 5.4 percent in July, and 
All-time high: 
4525

a jump in average hourly 
5,778.00 
May 22, /996 

10/1/95 111/96 4/1/96 7/1/96 10/1/96
wages increase the chances 
the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates to cool the 
J 12 months: Dall 
S& P ~I!D~fo~.eiJ--725 

economy. 
700 

...Republican presidential 
675

,.t "" /"'"\
,4."

challenger Bob Dole's cam­
650
Vyl
655.68 
I

paign used Friday's report as 
·­
625 

'"' IY
+3.69 
/'Y v
.

an opportunity to argue that 
600
for the week 

:ffhigh taxes are preventing 
575
e~~~::re~~'

Americans from enjoying the 
. 

550 All-time high: 
benefits of the improved job 
525
678.51 
May24.1996

market. 
10/1/95 1/1/96 4/1/96 7/1/96 10/1/96 
In an unusual move, the AP said. nation's stock exchanges have spent more than In addition, the American Stock Exchange kicked in $500,000 to defeat a California ballot initiative that $20,000. 
Clinton scores points with parents 
WASHINGTON 

Forty-nine percent of registered vot­ers believe President Clinton does a better job than Bob Dole in addressing the concerns of parents with minor children, according to a U.S. News & World Report poll released Saturday. 31 percent of poll respondents think Dole does a better job, the magazine said. Four percent choose Reform Party candidate Ross Perot. If the election 
.--:----::-:.,--,....,.---, were held today, 52 percent of those surveyed said they would vote for, or were leaning toward, Clinton. Dole received support from 35 percent of respondents, and P~rot received 6 per­cent. Two polling firms. Lake Research and Tarrance Group, interviewed 1,000 registered voters on Tuesday and Wednesday. More than 59 million Americans have chil­dren under 18 living at home-2.8 million more than a decade ago and nearly 4 million more than in 1976, U.S. News said. "Many have minimal allegiance to either major party, making them the prized voters," it said. 
Residents clean up after hurricane 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

Their neighborhoods in tatters but their resolve largely intact, residents of hurricane-battered areas turned Sunday to cleaning up formidable messes, watching swollen waterways and adjusting to life without electrici­ty. At least six people were still reported missing. Five electric utilities reported a total of 488,000 customers still without power. Water, and especially ice, remained crucial commodities and lines formed at stores offering supplies -many for free. With many areas flooded with sewage-tainted water and thousands of trees on the ground, life was hardly returning to normal. But, on a muggy, torrid day, people ventured out with rakes and chain saws, and utility and municipal crews and private tree-clearing contractors plied the streets and back roads. "We're so sophisticated in this age of technology and science, but Mother Nature comes through and we're back to 400 B.C.," said Linda Daigle, clearing foliage from her lawn Sunday. 


The AccuWeather~~~>torecast for noon, Monday, Sept. 9. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
""T"""T"" .........._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VlaAssocistflldPress 
Atlanta  89  69  Denver  88  52  Philadelphia  87  70  
Atlantic City  B 1  70  Detroit  78  59  Pittsburgh  80  58  
Baltimore  88  66  Houston  91  69  Seewer, KY  91  73  
Boston  76  62  Las Vegas  99  73  St. Louis  82  63  
Chicago  80  59  Nashville  87  65  West Windsor 91  73  

Time Warner revs up internet service 
AKRON, Ohio 

Time Warner Inc.'s new Road Runner online service gets its debut Tuesday, using an existing cable television system to provide high-speed computer links to the Internet. It will be the largest service to use a coaxiaVfiber-optic cable television system already in place to provide connections more than 100 times faster than telephone lines. "This not a test," said Tim Evard, president of the Time Warner division overseeing the Road Runner rollout. More than 2,000 cable television subscribers were on a waiting list for the Road Runner computer connection in the Akron-Canton area. The company expects to expand the service into Portland, Maine, this year. and then in San Diego in early 1997. "The whole world is watching northern Ohio now," said Robert Wells, senior analyst for Lennox Research. "Time Warner is really carrying the ball for the industry." The cost is $39.95 per month for unlimited Internet access, plus network storage space for a personal World Wide Web page and a collection of Time Warner information services -twice as much as standard Internet access services. Evard would not say how many subscribers the company needed to turn a profit, but he said the business would work well with 30,000 customers. 
Midshipman admits knowledge of crime 
FORT WORTH, Texas 

A midshipman who described himself as a close friend of a Naval Academy classmate charged with murder said he heard her talk about the slaying for weeks, but never told authorities. First-year midshipman Jay Guild said he will leave the academy Monday rather than face dis­missal on conduct charges. Guild, 18, of Kankakee, Ill., said he stayed silent because he initially believed that fel­low plebe Diane Zamora was lying about her involvement in the December slaying of 16-year-old Adrianne Jones Later, he felt that exposing her story would have been like "turning in a family member." Academy officials "will say I was blindly love-struck," he said in Sunday's Fort Worth Star-Telegram. "Anybody besides me would have turned her in. And I should have, too." Jones' body was found Dec. 4 in a field in Grand Prairie, Texas, and police have said they believe Zamora and her fiance, Air Force Academy cadet David Graham, killed her. Zamora, 18, was arrested Friday in Fort Worth. 
Opponents say Proposition 211 would reverse the impact, in California at least, of a federal law passed last December that limited such lawsuits. 
"We think what happens in California will have national ramifications," Arda Nazerian, spokeswoman for 
the American Stock Exchange, said Friday. "It will serve as a model for other states." 
The nation's biggest stock market, the New York Stock Exchange, and the second biggest, Nasdaq Stock Market, each contributed $250,000 to defeat Prop. 211, spokesmen for the exchanges 

. . ·----------·--.-..
. . 

·-~~--~~-~~---~--~~--~ ..~ •.•••.....,...................... 

page 3 

Snite Museum plays host to new exhibit 
This past weekend, Saint Mary's senior Caroline Quinlan and commu­nications, dance and theatre chair­person lndi Dieckgrase presented an hour­long performance entitled "Two Women Dancing, Lives and Stories." The perfor­mance was the culmination of a SISTAR research grant, which allowed the pair to tour the country ar:'d attend dance improvisa­tion workshops through the summer. The Observer/Kim Michalik  
COLLEGE REPUBLICANS "THE BESTPARTY ON CAMPUS" First Meeting Tonight 7:00pm ~ 127 Nieuwland  
SINCE A4·YEAR DEGREE REALLY TAKES 5YEARS, YOU MIGHT NEED TO SAVE SOME MONEY. 12 fast Italian favorites priced under $4. Real Italian. Real Fast,.. s2no U.S. Route 33N, South Bend • 277-4008  


transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of an illness. 
11:15 p.m. AFischer Graduate resident reported the theft of his bike from Fischer Grad. It Is unknown if the bike was locked at the time of the theft. 

WED., SEPT. 4 Hall bike rack. The bi.ke was r~ot looked filthe time of the theft, +H+' 7:30 a.m. A Lewis Hall resident reported 
2:50 p.m. An off-campus student report­the !heft of her bookbag from outside ed lhe theft of her laptop computer from a Lewis Hall. The bookbag was left unat· computer lab In Fitzpatrick Hall. tended at the lime of the theft. 5:21·p;m; An off-campus student was 1:30 p.m. An olf·campus student report· t~rsported by Security to St. Joseph ed the theft of hie car stereo from his Medical Center lor treatment ol an ankle vehicle while parked In lhe C1 parking lot. ln)LirY~ 1;50 p.m. A Flanner Hall resident 
reported the theft of his CO player from TUES., SEPT. 3 his vehicle while parked In the 02 north parking tot. 
7:41 p.m. A University employee was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treatment of a bum. 
Chinese ~ American Restaurant and Cocktail Lounge 
Lunches starting at .... $4.25 Dinners starting at .... $5.95 Banquet rooms available up to 200 




CR£AT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
Informational Meeting 
Special to The Observer 
American artists of the late 19th and early 20th centuries are the subjects of a new exhibit at the Snite Museum of Art. 
Representing artists such as Childe Hassam, Julian Alden Weir, and Theodore Robinson, the 21 paintings and watercol­ors in the Frigon exhibition illustrate the influence of the French Impressionists on the techniques and subject matter of many American artists who traveled and studied in Europe between the 1890s and the 1920s. 

Entitled "American Images from the Turn of the Century," the paintings are drawn from the private collection of Mr. and Mrs. Henry Frigon, long­time benefactors of the University of Notre Dame. Frigon is a member of the advi­sory council for the College of Business Administration. 
The exhibit will be opened by an afternoon reception in the O'Shaughnessy East galleries from 2-4 p.m.; Frigon will speak at 3 p.m. 
The reception is free and open to everyone. 
Tuesday, September 10 5:00p.m. 116 O'Shaughnessy 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 9, 1996 
Foru01 
continued from page 1 
community, with a global econ­omy. I don't think people real­ize the importance of working towards that." 
Indicating that the United States tends to be very close­minded in its policies, she con­tinued, "The challenge to us is to look at the candidates, and challenge them to address global issues." 
Despite the fact that "we must look through Catholic teachings to make decisions," McKillip referred to the U.S. Catholic Bishops' letter addressing Political Responsibilities for 1996, stat­ing that "Catholics should not be viewed as a voting block." 
"We are not called to be par­tisan," McKillip said. "We are called to look at every party, and look at the issues from the vantage point of how they affect the dignity of the human person, and how they advance the common good." 
While she analyzed the major issues of the '96 campaign, McKillip maintained that voter 

Election 
continued from page 1 
A discussion session will fol­low the presentations each week. 
"We need civil discussion as we search for the common good," Mass Weigert said. "We want to keep the common good in mind as people decided for whom and for what to vote." 
The series will run every Monday through Oct. 14, from 4 to 5 p.m. Future speakers will be announced as they are determined. 
Among the campus organiza­tions sponsoring the series are two student groups, the College Democrats and College Republicans. 

Campus Bible Study Rev. A1 D"Alonzo, CSC, Director Campus Ministry Badin Hall 631-5242 


Shenanigans 
NOTRE DAME'S ONLY SINGING AND DANCING ENSEMBLE 
Announces Extended Audlltllons 
One llliah• Only! 
Tuesday, September 1Oth 8:45-10:45 p.m. Call1-5896 for an audition time 
• Positions available for men and women singers and dancers 
• Over IS performances every year 
• Only 6 hours per week 
• members of all NO and SMC choirs are encouraged to audition 


Sponsored by The Office of Campus Ministry 
All students invited to attend inter-faith Bible Study 
Every Tuesday -7:00 p.m. Office of Campus Ministry Conference Room -Badin Hall 
One Hour Sessions Bring your own Bible 
Directed by: Rev. AI D'Alonzo, CSC 
For additional information call: 631-5585 631-5242 
FIRST MEETING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 1996 7:00 p.m. 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


APPALACHIA FALL 
BREAK 


SEMINAR 
Oct. 20-25, 1996 
THE SEMINAR 

• 
Is a 1 ,credit Theology course 

• 
Involves orientation and follow,up learning 

• 
Presents the opportunity to work, laugh, and learn 


with other volunteers INFO SESSION: Monday, September 9, 1996, 7:30, 8:00P.M. 
(optional) At the Center for Social Concerns 
APPLICATIONS: Available at the Center Due Date: Wednesday, September 11, 1996 by 5:00P.M. 
For further M.J. Adams, 634-3880, or Laura Stein 634-3690 information: Rachel Tomas Morgan 282-2209 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 

NEEDA]OB 
that fits your busy schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you will be called to fill staffing assignments for area families in need of child care services. 0 Evening or daytime, 
meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Grt".at pay. 
Call 273-2273 
to find out 
more! 

involvement should not end after marking a ballot. "After the election, it is absolutely essential that we hold our elected officials accountable," she said. 
"As Catholic social teaching tells us. people need to deter­mine what is the common good, and work to make sure the government attends to that." 
Sister Ann Oestreich, justice coordinator of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, said. "It was a fab­ulous, complete presentation of the issues, that looked at legis­lature through the lens of Catholic social teaching from someone who works on the Hill everyday." 
Oestreich stressed the impor­tance of staying on top of the issues and questioning candi­dates, at local and state along with national levels. "A well­informed voter is a true asset not only to their district, but to the nation." 
NETWORK, which recently celebrated its 25th anniver­sary, is a Washington lobbyist group comprised of over 10,000 members throughout the nation. It is the only Catholic registered lobby in the capital. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323 


Attacks 
continued from page 1 
his early-to-mid-twenties with bleach blond hair and long bangs -was removing a bicycle from the back of the truck and setting it on the ~round, Smallmon told Secunty. The man was wearing a white base­ball hat turned backwards and 


Keane 
continued from page 1 
ership of COBA provided a wel­come opportunity to explore the business world's acadetnic side. 
"(Being a dean) was a new experience because my career had been two positions in gov­ernment and seven very diverse positions in business," he said. 
Even more exciting for Keane was the chance to return to Notre Dame, where he complet­ed a bachelor's degree in 1952. 
"Perhaps the most satisfying aspect of all was to come home to Notre Dame," he said. "On1y a Notre Dame graduate can know what that means." 
Before assuming the college'sGillen Deanship in January 1989, Keane spent several years as director of the U.S. Census Bureau. Appointed to the posi­tion by President Reagan in 1983, Keane oversaw the opera-had bangs to his eyebrows. Smallmon said he could see the dark roots of his bangs from beneath the hat. 
Smallmon got out of the truck and confronted the man, who proceeded to strike him over the left eye. Security later transport­ed htm to St. Joseph Medical Center, where he was treated and released. 
A number of bicycles have been stolen around campus since school began, Hurley added. He advised students to use a "U-bolt lock" to secure their bikes since chains can be easily cut with a bolt cutter. 
The rash of assaults on cam­pus is highly unusual, according to Hurley, who said patrols had been increased in the area of North Quad and Mod Quad espe­cially. He advised anyoneinvolved in any incident or who sees anything suspicious to report it to Security Immediate­ly. 
tion of the nation's largest sta­tistical agency with an annual operating budget of more than $600 million. 
Prior to serving as director of the Census Bureau, Keane spent four years in the United States Air Force and 27 years in the private sector in research, man­agement, and consulting posi­tions. Throughout his career Keane worked for such industry leaders as U.S. Steel, Booz-Allen & Hamilton, and J. Walter Thompson. 
In addition to the degree he received from Notre Dame, Keane earned a bachelor's de~ree from SyracuseUmversity, an MBA from Indiana University, and a doc­torate from the University of Pittsburgh.
While Keane says that his years as dean have been enjoy­able, he feels that the time is ri~ht for a change. 
'I think it's a good time because you need fresh think­ing, and nine years is enough," he said. "And then there's the opportunity to get serious about teaching and doing other things that being a dean just won't per­mit because of the time and the routine." 
In August 1997, following the end of his tenure as dean, Keane plans to assume active faculty status as Korth Professor of Strategic Management and Gillen Dean Emeritus. 
"I look forward to it," Keane said. "It's a real chance to meet students in a continuing kind of way. I don't know that experi­ence, and I'd like to." 
Currently, University Provost Nathan Hatch is in the process of directing a search committee for the next Gillen Dean of COBA. Five faculty members, one undergraduate, and one graduate student have been appointed to the committee. 
Hatch and University President Father Edward Malloy will make the final decision based on the committee's rec­ommendations. 


Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 

Monday, September 9, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 
------------------------~~~~=-~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------~~ 
.IRAQ • ISRAEl 
Iraq denies involvement in KDP raid Government 


you could, you 
Macintosh. More affordable than ever. 
With low student prices on Macintosh· computers, you can start doing whatever it is you want to do. And to make it even easier for you to purchase a Macintosh, apply for the Apple' Computer Loan. So you can take home a Mac~ and you won't have to make a payment for 90 days~ How do you get started? Just visit your campus computer store today and pick up a Mac. 
Leave your mark. 
By BRIAN MURPHY 
Associated Press Writer 
IHBIL 
A Kurdish faction allied with President Saddam Hussein cap­tured two towns from a rival 
. Kurdish group in fierce fighting Sunday. The groups gave con­flicting accounts of whether Saddam's forces took part in the assaults. 
Iraq, meanwhile, claimed it fired anti-aircraft weapons at 
U.S. and allied aircraft patrolling no-fly zones over its territory Sunday. The Iraqi fire missed and the planns fled, the offidal Iraqi News Agency said. Iraq made tho same claim on Friday and Saturday, also say­ing there wnro no hits. · 
American pilots have said 
they have detected  no  Iraqi  
response to their sorties.  
In  northern  Iraq,  the  

Kurdistan Democratic Party prnssed ahead with its week-
TODD, 
CongratulationsII You've Survived 
20! 
Love, St. Joe E.R. & a couple of Navy Nurses 
If~ 

prepares for negotiations 
By BARRY SCHWEID Associated Press Writer 
LONDON 

Israel's foreign minister said Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government "will do everything we can" to establish peace with its Palestinian neighbors, but security is "essential and unequivocal" for peace. 
Foreign Minister David Levy, speaking Sunday after a one­hour meeting with Secretary of State Warren Christopher, said Israel "will go as quickly as it takes to assure agreements." 
The London meeting was a warm-up for Netanyahu's visit to Washington starting Monday for talks with President Clinton, Defense Secretary William Perry, Christopher and others. 
At a joint news conference, Christopher backed Israel for putting curbs on terrorism but urged redeployment of Israeli troops away from Arab resi­dents in Hebron, a town in the West Bank sacred to Muslims and Jews. 
U.S. officials said Christopher also asked Israel to let in more Palestinian workers. 
Israel closed the border last spring after a series of bloody terrorist attacks on Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Ashkelon. Last week, the Israeli government said it would issue 50,000 work permits for Palestinians, an increase of 18,000 from the current level. 
old offensive, marching east and taking the towns of Degala and Kuysanjaq from the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. 
Both groups agreed that the towns, 20 and 30 miles east of lrbil, changed hands amid heavy fighting. 
But the KDP said in a state­ment from London that it launched the assaults on its own, while PUK spokesman Latif Rashid, speaking to The Associated Press from London, said the faction was over­whelmed by the combined forces of the Iraqi army and the KDP. 
The Iraqi government said its forces were not involved. "We stress once again that our armed forces have already returned in full to their previ­ous positions," an Information Ministry source told the state­run Iraqi News Agency. 
No details of the fighting were available, and there was no word on casualties. 
'Iraqi forces teamed up with the KDP on Aug. 31 to capture Irbil, the de facto capital of the Kurdish safe haven established in northern Iraq after the 1991 Persian Gulf War. 
The United States responded with missile attacks on south­ern Iraq on Tuesday and Wednesday, hammering air defense sites in southern Iraq. 
Since then, the Iraqi forces appear to have refrained from playing a major role in the bat­tles between the rival Kurdish groups. 
But Iraq placed its heavy weaponry only a few miles behind the front-line positions of its KDP allies. Almost 100 Iraqi tanks could be seen in the region on Friday, and Defense Secretary William Perry, speak­ing on CBS' "Face the Nation," said Sunday that some Iraqi troops "are still nearby and still dangerous." 
A United Nations officer in lrbil, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a force made up mainly of KDP fighters, but aided by some Iraqi govern­ment troops, was moving to the east on Sunday. He said the intense fighting prevented U.N. officials from going to the scene. 
In Washington, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. John Shalikashvili told NBC's "Meet the Press.. that Saddam "is clearly exploiting the difference between those two Kurdish fac­tions." 
But he said "very, very few" Iraqi troops were still in the safe haven area. "There contin­ue to be reports of a few hun­dred here, a few hundred there." 

The KDP said it was pushing east toward the Dokan Dam hydroelectric plant. The group said the PUK, which controls the plant, cut power and water to Irbil after being driven out a .week ago. It said lrbil, a city of about 1 million, was suffering from "severe water and sanita­
tion problems." 
The offensive was also taking 
the KDP in the direction of 
Sulaymaniyah in the east, the 
last major stronghold of the 
PUK. 
According to the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, many fami­lies fled Kuysanjaq, a town of about 80,000, in response to Sunday's fighting. 
The group appealed for "urgent and decisive" help from the United States and its allies. 
But the Americans have made clear they do not want to take sides in Kurdish infighting. The missile attacks last week tar­geted southern Iraq, and Washington has taken no action in the north. "We should not be involved in civil war in the north," Perry said. 

'liffert<tfllre.< li<:toher II. /996. No /}(l)'m£'111 ofilllm~sl or prlllcipal u•i/1 ill' l'(ljUiredfor 90 dt!I'S. lnlel't'.<lllccruill!l duritl/l, /hi< 90-dt!J• fli'rt!Jtltl'i/1 ill' added /o lbe principal 1111d U'ill bear inleresl. u•bich u•i/1 he included in /he l'l'fli!l'lllelll.,t·bt~lult•. For etample, /he mo111h ofMl!l' 1996 h11d all intemt raft' of /2./)% u•i/b 1111 Allllllill/'l'rren/1/f/<' Rille !APRJ of!J93%. Amonlh(l' fli!l'llleltl of $.!2.86 jilf /be Pout't' Mac· 5260 .\:J«Iem i<~meslimu/e biL~~I 011 illo/a/1{)(111 11111011111 of $1.913.83. u•bich i11cludes 11 .wnnple purchase price of $1.799alld 11 6% loa11 orlgitllllion fee. 111/ms/ i<1vtri<1ble bli.<erl 011 lilt' Prime Rail' II.< rt'fXJrlerl on Jill' Sth htL<iness dar oftbt• month in TheWall Street Journal. pilL< a .<f!rtwd of,l.9%. Month/)· fli!l'lnellltmd APR >1JOU11tL'ISIIIIII!S dtfermml ofprinci{ll1land does not i11d111k slllte or local Sllles ltL\'. Till' Af!/>le Compuil!l' Loan has an 8-_1mr loan t<'t'lll u·1th 110 fmi/JII)'I11<111 penalty and i< subjt'Cito crerill aPf>rtllvtl. Mo11th(1' /'ti,J'IIIt71/s may t•IIJ' '"'"'~11111'11 (II/ aCtlllll Llllll/>1111!1' .<)>11!111 prices, to/til loan amounts. s/tlte am/loml .Wiles taxes a/ld II change in till' monthly mriable inlmst rrt/e. ©1996 Apple Computer. Inc. All rwhts resermi Apple, the Apple logo. Mac tmd Mtlcintosh illY' IY'Jl,islem/tnulemarks ofApplt• Computer. Inc Pou~r MtiC is a lrrttk'lllllrli ofAPf>/t• l.i11nputer. /11c All.lfacilllll<h mmpulm are tk<igm~l/o he acce."ible /o imlit•idual,· 11'1/h diw1hilih•. 7b lerm1 molY' (W: on(J~. ca//H00-600-78011 or m·H00-755-0601. 

page 6 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 9, 1996 
.ITALY 
Proposal: Debt paid by criminals 
By FRANCES D'EMILIO Associated Press Writer 
ROME 
The government has a $86 bil­lion deficit. Three thousand politicians and businessmen are implicated in corruption scan­dals. So a new proposal is catch­ing on: let them buy their amnesty. 
Declaring it's time to close the books on Italy's scandals, Venice prosecutor Carlo Nordio is sug­gesting that the suspects surren­der hundreds of millions of ill­gotten dollars in exchange for their freedom. 
His rationale is that the guilty will be atoning for their econom­ic crimes by surrendering the money they made -possibly with a penalty. But others see his idea as a way for the govern­ment to raise the cash it needs. 
Nordio isn't the first to make such a proposal. but his timing -he laid out his strategy before a Who's Who in business and politics at an economic confer­
ence this weekend ­ is winning  
him support.  
Foreign  Trade  Minister  

Augusto Fantozzi said during a break in the conference that the government should continue its crackdown on corruption. 
"But we must also pose the question, like Nordio did. In other words, if 20 trillion lire ($13 billion) is needed to fix up the public budget, where will we fmd it?" 
Justice Minister Giovanni Maria Flick said he didn't like the idea, but Deputy Premier Walter Veltroni said it deserved serious debate. 
Nordio said the payments would let the suspects atone for wrongdoing, and insisted that he was not proposing a whitewash. 
"I don't know ifjustice means punishing at all costs people who have already done jail" while under investigation, he told RAI state TV. 
After the "Kickback City" scandals began in 1992, hun­dreds of corruption suspects ­including former ministers and business leaders -were thrown into jail without charges in an attempt to get them to implicate colleagues. 


Pope continues to travel despite illness 

By VICTOR SIMPSON 
Associated Press Writer 
GYOER, Hungary 
John Paul II is basically healthy and plans to make plenty of foreign trips in the coming months, the Vatican said Saturday as the pope ended a visit to Hungary during which he appeared tired and weak. 
The cause of an intestinal ill­ness that has struck the 76­year-old pontiff twice in the past seven months has not been determined, his spokesman said. 
John Paul appeared fatigued and walked laboriously as he led an open-air Mass for tens of thousands of worshipers Saturday, telling Hungarians not to lose hope despite hard­ships following the fall of com­munism. 
His vestments billowed in a stiff breeze on a sunny but chilly morning that tested the pontiffs str.ength on his first foreign trip since being side­lined three weeks ago by the intestinal illness. 
The pope ended his overnight visit and left for Rome Saturday evening. 
"Basically, he remains 
healthy," Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro­Valls said. 
He said John Paul, who will visit France in 12 days, plans at least four for­eign tours next year­to the Czech Republic, his n· a t i v e Poland, Brazil and France. 
In March and again in August, the 

Confronting An American Disgrace: The Systematic Causes of Homelessness 
Conference held on Sept. 19-21, 1996 at the Century Center in South Bend, Indiana 
Thursday 6:30-8:00 pm  Newman Public Policy Lecture, Nan Roman, Vice President,  
National Alliance to End Homelessness  
Friday  9:00am-5:45pm  Panels and Presentations  
Saturday  8:30-11:30 am  Panels  

STUDENT REGISTRATION: $10.00 (no meals included) To register, please fill out form below and return it to: Professor Leda Mcintyre Hall Institute for Applied Community Research 
1700 Mishawaka Avenue Post Office Box 7111 South Bend, IN 46634-7111 

Name: 
Address: 
University: 
Department: 
Phone: 
Free transportation for all minority Juniors and Seniors! 
Meet and Interview with le;tding employers! 
Sponsored by: Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen 
Hewitt Associates 
Leo Burnett Company 
Partial List of Employers: Andersen Consulting Arthur Andersen Bear, Stearns & Co., Inc. Central Intelligence Agency Citibank Defense Intelligence Agency Delphi-Saginaw, GMC Federated Department Stores Fidelity Investments First Chicago General Mills Hewitt Associates Leo Burnett Manor Care, Inc. Merrill Lynch 
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceuticals Price Waterhouse Prudential Securities Reuters America, Inc. PLUS MANY MORE !!! 



MINORITY 
CAREER FORUM Midwest November 22, 1996 
Westin O'Hare Hotel Chicago, Tilinois 
TO REGISTER: Submit your ane-page resume with 3 industry preferences on the back to 
your Placement Office 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: · ·October 11, 1996 
pope can­celed public appearances over several days, ran a low fever and was treated with antibi­otics for what the Vatican said was an intestinal problem. 
Navarro said the cause could be linked to a 1981 assassina­tion attempt, when a Turkish gunman shot the pope in the stomach. Doctors removed three feet of intestine. 
But he ruled out any link to a 1992 operation for removal of what the Vatican said was a benign tumor. 
John Paul also broke his leg in 1994 when he fell in his bathroom, and has walked with difficulty since. 
The Vatican was angered over reports that the pope had failed to read a speech Friday evening because he was not well. 
In fact, he read portions of it in Hungarian, leaving the rest to be read by a priest. The Vatican noted he has done that on other occasions when he was unfamiliar with the lan­guage. 
At the end of Saturday's Mass, he made off-the-cuff remarks in strong, clear Italian about the wind. 
Police said as many as 130,000 people turned out for · the Mass in the park on the outskirts of this industrial city in northwestern Hungary near Slovakia. 

What about after graduation?!? 
Are you considering allyour options? 
Come to the CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS and explore opport~nities for post-graduate SERVICE in the U.S. and Abroad. 
Come to a: 

General Information Session: Monday, Sept. 9th, 6 -7 p.m. or Thursday, Sept. 12th, 5-6 p.m. • at the Center for Social Concerns • 
And to the: 

Post-Graduate Volunteer Fair: Wednesday, Sept. 25th, 7-9 p.m. • at Stepan Center • 
Also: Stop by the Center to pick up information and resources for a wide variety of service-based organizations and programs and to sign up for individual appointments. 
---~-~----~~~----------~--------------------­
Monday, September 9, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

Tobacco giants feel the heat 
By JIM DRINKARD 
Associ•red Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
FAeling its own health threat­ened, the tobacco industry spent millions of dollars in the first half of 1996 to thwart fed­eral efforts to curtail teen-age smoking, raise the industry's taxes and mstriet advertising. 
Hnports filed with the govern­ment show companies with !wavy interests in tobacco issues spent more than $15 million during the period. 
Industry giant Philip Morris led the way with $11.3 million, aeeording to the first-ever reports disdosing special inter­nsts' mal expenses in lobbying Congress, federal agencies and the White House. 
Philip Morris has extensive holdings in non-tobacco busi­nesses -Kraft Foods, for example -but reports indicate the bulk of its lobbying efforts related to tobacco matters. 
Companies are not required to break down their total lobby­ing spending by business cate­gory. 
Congressional clerks who reviewed the reports say Philip Morris' total appeared to be the largest so far among around 12,000 companies and groups that filed midyear reports over the past two months. 
"We have had a lot of federal attention from regulators and the White House," said Thomas Lauria, a spokesman for the Tobacco Institute, a trade asso­ciation. "It's never easy com­munication, because tobacco is controversial on many, many levels." 
The industry, once given def­erence in Washington, has seen its credibility eroded in recent years by allegations that execu­tives covered up knowledge of the damaging and addictive nature of cigarettes, said Michael Pertschuk. an anti­tobacco researr.her and activist. 
"They have the deepest pock­ets imaginable, and they have the most at stake," Pertschuk said. "The very heart of their industry is under attack." 

Morris may testify against First Lady 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Assodatrd Press Writer 
WASIIINGTON 
A I louse committee chairman says former campaign adviser l>iek Morris has indicated he will respond by late Monday to questions about his reported statmnent that Hillary Hodham Clinton was behind the collec­tion of hundrnds of confidential FBI lilns on former Hepublican oflidals. 
Hep. William Clinger, H-Pa., chairman of the Government Heform and Oversight Committee, said Morris has agrend to respond by 5 p.m. Monday. 
Clingnr said in a statement that he "was astonished to learn from news reports" that Morris "has information linking the First Lady to the improper review of at least 900 confiden­tial FBI files." 
In a letter dated Saturday and made public Sunday, Clinger asked Morris to "affirm by sworn statement" the truthful­ness of his reported contents and to supply all "correspon­dence, e-mail, memos, talking points, briefing papers, polling data, telephone records and other records" on the subject. 
Clinger said his committee, which has led the investigation into how the FBI files ended up in a White House security office, "may need to take additional 
THE HEALING ARTS CENTER IS PROUD TO PRESENT 
efforts to secure sworn testimo­ny from you." He has suggested that Morris may be subpoenaed to appear before the committee. 
The Star supermarket tabloid released excerpts Friday from the diaries of a prostitute in which she wrote that Morris had blamed Mrs. Clinton for the White's House's acquisition of the files. Morris resigned after the tabloid revealed what it said was his longtime relationship with the call girl. 
White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta, appearing Sunday on CNN's "Late Edition," said it was his understanding that Morris "did call the campaign to indicate that there was no truth to this story." 
"I think you have to look at the source of this story," Panetta said. "We're operating off a tabloid story." 
Panetta said it is Morris' deci­sion how he should deal with Clinger's request. 
"I would hope he would coop­erate the same way we cooper­ated," said Panetta. 
Please go in the hole ... 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum Seumis Higgins watches as his putt rolls toward the hole. Higgins was one of many participants in the Carroll Open golf tournament on Saturday afternoon. 
HAVE SOMETHING TO SAY? USE OBSERVER CLASS I F I E D S. 

DEEPAK CHOPRA, M.D. 
IN PERSON AT CENTURY CENTER SOUTH BEND, INDIANA FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1996 
7:30 TO 10:00 PM 
ADMISSION $35 RESERVED SEATING $20 GENERAL ADMISSION 
ADVANCE TICKET PURCHASE R E C 0 M M E N 0 E 0 
FOR TICKETS AND MORE INFORMATION CALL (21 9) 284-2442 OR (21 9) 257-2292 
Senior 2{ap 11p (jroups 
Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and Student Government 
Slo 1}ou're a Senior ... Excited? ConfuSed? 

Mixed fee~ingS about ~eaving? 
s:t reSSe d about the future? 
7oin YL Senior 2?ap CUp (jroup ! 
Once a month each small group of seniors will meet for dinner and conversation at a faculty or staff member's home. In a supportive and open atmosphere, you can reflect on your experiences at Notre Dame and about the impact of those experiences on your future. (A $25 dollar fee covers expenses for meals for the year.) 
Sign up THIS WEEK in NDH, SDH, 
or at the Center for Social Concerns! 
• Deadline is Friday, September 13th • 
-----~------~-----~ -~
... 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Monday, September 9, 1996 
Study criticizes depiction of safe sex on soap operas 
By TIM WHITMIRE 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
When, after weeks of smoldering glances, the male lead of a daytime soap opera finally ends up in bed with his brother's ex-wife, they are unlikely to discuss birth control. 
Why does this matter, you ask? 
Because soap sex and its conse­quences draw 40 million viewers likely to emulate those daytime dreamboats, said Katherine Heintz-Knowles, author of a study released Saturday on soap opera sex. 
"We know that behavior performed by characters who are attractive. pow­erful and popular is more likely to be imitated by viewers," said Heintz­Knowles, a University of Washington communications professor. 
The survey found that, of 594 sexual behaviors shown during five weeks of soap operas, only 58 included the dis­cussion or depiction of planning or consequences. 
The study, released by the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, a private health foundation, was presented to network executives and soap opera writers and producers meeting with reproductive health experts at "Soap Summit II." Last year's Soap Summit I was held for television talk shows pro­ducers. 
The seminar is staged by Population Communications International, an organization that works with media around the world to encourage family planning and prevention of sexually transmitted diseases. 
"The dilemma (soap opera produc­ers) have is they have to provide entertainment," said Dr. Felicia Stewart, director of reproductive health programs for the Kaiser Foundation. "The goal really here I think ... is to try to figure out some way we can be more (educational)." 
The survey of 97 hours of program­ming from the 10 nationally televised soap operas from May 27 to June 28 recorded 6.1 sexual behaviors per hour of programming. That compared to 6.6 sexual behaviors per hour recorded in a 1994 survey. 
A sexual behavior was defined as any kissing, caressing, flirting or sexu­al intercourse that was shown, implied or discussed by characters. 
Heintz-Knowles said this year's sur­vey found a higher proportion of sexu­al behaviors being shown -rather than just talked about -than two years ago. 
Of the sexual behaviors recorded in the survey, 73 percent were shown visually, compared to 27 percent ver­bally. In the 1994 survey, 67 percent of sexual behaviors were verbal, com­pared to 33 percent visual. 
"This is not to imply, though, that soaps are getting more explicit," Heintz-Knowles said. What is being shown is more kissing, embracing and caressing, she said. · 
Soap sex generally is not casual and almost always is depicted as having a positive effect on a relationship, Heintz-Knowles said. 
Researchers said messages about AIDS and condom use were more prominent this year than in their 1994 study. Two soaps, "All My Children" and "General Hospital," used condoms in major plots; "General Hospital" fea­tured an HIV-positive character and "The Young and the Restless" showed a woman deciding to be tested for HIV. 
"This study indicates that it is possi­ble for television to play a more con­structive role when it comes to com­municating messages about sexual responsibility," Stewart said. "But there is still a long way to go." 
Making music 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Cellist Miriam Eckelhoefer performed in the Faculty Concert at the Snite Annenberg Auditorium on Sunday. 


ER, Frasier take top Emmys 
Associated Press 
PASADENA, Calif. 
"ER," NBC's powerful medical drama, and the network's "Frasier" won top series awards at Sunday's Primetime Emmy Awards, although the shows' actors were shut out. 
Kathy Baker of "Picket Fences" and Dennis Franz of "NYPD Blue" won top dramatic acting Emmys, while Helen Hunt of "Mad About You" and John Lithgow of "3rd Rock From the Sun" were honored for comedy series acting. "ER," which led all shows with 17 nominations, won only the top drama award, beating out "Chicago Hope," "Law & Order," "NYPD Blue" and "The X-Files." 

"Frasier" won best comedy for the third consecutive year and had four Emmys this year, including best comedy series writing. 
"Frasier" producer Peter Casey thanked the TV academy but said, "More impor­tantly, we feel it sends a message to the pompous and the incessantly fussy of America." 
No one show dominated. NBC led the networks with 20 Emmys, including nine awarded Sunday and 11 presented in pre­liminary categories the night before. HBO was second with a total of 14 and ABC fol­lowed with 12. 


MEMORIAL MASS for 
DOCTOR ROBERT E. GORDON Former Vice---President for Graduate Studies and Research 

Monday, September 9, 1996, 5:15P.M. 
VITJI C6DO 
BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
The Reverend Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. presiding 

--~ -~--~~~------~~~-----~ -~ 






VIEWPOINT 
Monday, September 9, 1996 
page 9 


THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S 0FFICF.: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager PJuida Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 

Newo Editor ........................ Brad Prcnd<rgast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smirh Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sh<rman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan 
Saint Mary'• Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michad Ruma 
The Observer is rhe independenr newspaper published by the srudents of the University of Notre 
lliinu· du l..oJ.c and Saint Milry's College. It docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra~ rion of either insritution. The news is reported as accuratdy and objecrivdy as possibl<. Unsigned edi­toml.• represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, ViewiKlim E.diror, At.:t:cnr Editor, Photo Ediror, Spans Editor, and Saim Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lencn and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoinr space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lwers is encouraged. 
blitnr-in-Chief 
M>naging Editor/Viewpoint 
Sports News/Photo 
Accent/Saint Mary's llay Editor/l'roductinn 
Ccncr~&llnformation 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 631·5323 Office Manager 631-7471 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 631·5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l@nd.edu 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

• THE DISCOURSE 
Dealing with disparity in America's high schools 
Admission to top colleges no longer depends on statistical achievements 
Last year. while working toward my master's degree at Georgia Teeh, my llwsis advisor was appointed to the posi­tion of Assoeiatn Dean of the College of Sdtmee. One day I asked him the follow­ing question: "As an associate dean I 
Sean Seymore 

know that you will sit on several sehol­arship commiUI~es. Suppose your com­mitten is making scholarship awards to the entering freshman class, and there is onn scholarship left. 
Suppose there are two students that both have 4.0 GPA's from their respec­tive high schools. Student A has taken fivn advanced-placement courses, and has participated in numerous activities. However, Studnnt B eomes from a high sehoul where no AP courses are offered, and there are few extracurricular aetivi­lies available. Who would receive the scholarship?" 
My thesis advisor quickly responded, "Student A receives the scholarship." I rnplied, "Student B did the best he could with the resources that were available; does that not matter?" The dean rnsponded, "We (the committee mem­bnrsl have no way of knowing Student B's potnntial, and we eannot assume." 
There is a disparity in America's class­rooms. All high schools are not the same. The high school that a student attends plays a large role in the college admissions and financial aid process. Notre Dame and other prestigious uni­versities like to boast in their public relations campaigns about how their students come from the best high schools in America. They brag about how their students lettered in numerous varsity sports, how many AP courses the students have taken, and how well stu­dents from certain high schools tend to achieve in college. 
The truth is that the high school that one attends depends on several factors. including socioeconomic status, race, address. family financial resources and the good 'ol boy network -all of which are out of the student's control. Having lived in several large cities, I have first-hand knowledge of how these fac­tors work. 
As middle-class Americans continue their flight to the suburbs. sehools in the inner city are faced with the decay plaguing many of the nation's urban areas. These schools are usually the worst in the district, which is exempli­fied by dilapidated buildings, sparse course offerings, outdated textbooks and unmotivated teachers. In these metro areas. the best schools are usually found in the suburbs. Suburban schools usual­ly receive the most funding, attract the best teachers, offer the most courses, and have the best facilities. This is why I have always been a proponent of busing. Children in the inner city have a right to a quality education. 
If I were a parent living in the inner city, I would gladly place my child on the school bus each day and send the child to a suburban school. As I see it, busing is the only hope for inner-city schools. If suburban kids are forced to attend inner city schools, the disparity would fade away. 

However, inner city schools are not the only ones facing challenges. During the fall of my freshman year at the University of Tennessee, I remember several rural counties in the northeast corner of the state that were so poor that schools had to delay their opening until October. During television inter­
' The truth is that the high 
school that one attends depends on several factors, including socioeconomic sta­tus, race, address, family financial resources and the good 'ol boy network-all of which are out of the student's control.' 
views, distraught high school seniors from these counties would explain how the situation was jeopardizing their chances for admission into college. I contrast this situation to students that attend private high schools, some of which are direct pipelines into college. If a student comes from a family that can afford tuition, the maintenance of a respectable GPA can almost guarantee admission to a top school. 
Certain kids are victims of their P.nvi­
ronment. Suppose that Students A and B mentioned above are both competing for the same spot in a freshman class at an elite college. Even though they both have 4.0 GPA's the road for Student B is much longer. Undoubtedly Student A attends a high school that has a college-preparatory curriculum. The school probably even offers SAT prep classes. 
Student B attends a school where even graduating from high school is a large feat, let alone gaining admission to col­lege. Since Student B cannot take any AP classes, the student will have to do extraordinary things in order to impress the admissions committee. If Student B happens to be black and a resident of the inner city, this may further compli­cate matters. For example, Harvard admissions officials have publicly stated that they prefer to admit black students from middle-class homes that have attended predominately white schools. So, Student B, regardless of his or her achievements, may not have a prayer of gaining admission into a top school. 
Therefore, when I hear people say that everyone in America has an equal opportunity to achieve success, I quickly correct them. Students that attend good high schools are fortunate. These high schools are geared for success. However, students that attend such schools and boast of their scholastic achievements are not necessarily more intelligent than students from other schools; chances are that some or all of the factors mentioned above have worked in their favor. Given the oppor­tunity, kids from less impressive schools can excel also. One's ability to climb the ladder of success depends on which rung the individual starts the climb. 
Sean Seymore is a graduate student in chemistry. He can be reached at sean. b.seymore.l @nd. edu 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURV 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 

·-----~-------------·-~--~-­

;ACCENT

page 10 Monday, September 9, 1996 
• AT THE MOVIES WITH FATMAN AND DADDY 

"C~ow 2" Flops with Empty Plot1 Lack of Message 
By FATMAN and DADDY 
Accent Movie Critics 
Synopsis: A man and child wrongly killed. A mystic force embodied in a crow. Rebirth, revenge, regurgitated sto­ryline. It's all here in this gothic por­trayal of a miserable future cluttered with overacting villains and heroes who like to paint their faces and run around looking rather silly. 
Fatman: At some point in "The Crow 2", someone says in disbelief, "This is not real." Much to my dismay, it is. In the brief moments I spent approaching conscious awareness in this pitiful dis­play of pretentious dribble, my hazy mind tried desperately to discover a dis­cernible plot line. It failed. There is nothing of value in this homage to unearned anxiety. Daddy and I, excited about the boundless possibilities of another year at Notre Dame, hoped beyond hope that this film might be a call to a new era of self-indulgent pity and pseudo-existentialist despair. Maybe it is? 
I didn't think that many movies could reach the vacuous depths of the first "Crow". I left that film not feeling too badly about Brandon Lee's timely demise. Too bad that some wildly con­tagious hemorrhagic fever didn't do away with those involved with "The Crow 2". We can always dream, can't we. 
The movie raises perplexing ques­tions of form, content, and our current state of cultural mediocrity. The form of the film is a cheesy ripoff of MTV video camera gags that make everything fuzzy and dark. The content is something akin to a video game. The hero fights nasty villains in an ever-increasing order of difficulty until, in the end, he wins the game, takes the prize, washes his face paint off, etc. The movie tries to be stylish in spite of having no content. Instead, it just looks silly. 
What does this say about the culture that this movie appeals to? Whatever the merits of body piercing, power chords, and acting dark might be, I'm not sure they have any real meaning. I'm not attacking people who might find this sort of thing interesting; I just 
• Now SHOWING 
find it mundane and simple-minded. The movie, calling on these trends, attempts to be stylistically and occa­sionally verbally different from other action films. Instead of trying to do something clever or original, it goes for shock and image. It says nothing-it only shows off. In other words, it's not really different, it's just extreme and plays with limits that aren't necessarily imposing on its artistic expression. It searches for ideotity not· through an authentic plot or message, but through flashy camera work and meticulously porarily crack its lips. The critic, then mired in a delusional state of euphoria, thinks to itself: "Aye, verily have I seen all the wretched crap human cinema has the ability to produce; the future films can be nothing but better than those that preceded them." However, due to the critic's existence as the tragic hero of the media world, it is sorely mistaken; and the critic's brief respite is ended as a new torrent of odious bile crashes down upon its head, washing away both the smile and the naive hope that accompanied it. 


crafted disorder. Oh, well. My advice to anyone listening is to keep far, far away from this stinker or else you may find yourself adrift in your own gothic reali­ty. 
Daddy: There is always a point in the critic's life when that individual momentarily pauses in its seemingly endless march through the fetid excre­ment issued forth from the bowels of Hollywood, then allows a smile to tern-

Another year has begun for the Fatman and Daddy, another year of vicious barbs and scandalous zingers. We had hoped that we could begin this year with a positive review of a movie destined for Academy recognition; but we ended up seeing "The Crow 2" instead. Realizing that we have already failed our audience in these initial endeavors, the least we could do was to fire at them a stream of vitriolics power­ful enough to steer them away from a possible encounter with this reeking pile of feces. 
"The Crow 2" is one of those rare sequels that perfectly captures the tenor of the film that spawned it, and by making this statement I am contending that, although seemingly impossible, "The Crow 2" is every bit as bad as the first. In all actuality, "The Crow 2" is the very same movie except for the fact that, this time around, the cast is a dif­ferent collection of inept hacks. Granted, we must admit that Mia Kirshner has returned, but we must also likewise admit that while her body matured her skills lingered behind, per­haps even atrophying as well. 
Once again she stumbles through her role as a ridiculously gloomy denizen of our aimless and hopelessly trendy generation, a person who is per­petually depressed because she lives in a dingy, underlit apartment located in a town where seemingly, and obviously symbolically as well, the sun never shines. Do we identify with and pity her? Nay, not unless we have lost both our Prozac and our better judgement. Instead, we plead with her to remove her ten pounds of facial cosmetics and go outside and get some fresh air, sun, and Vitamin E. 
Daddy is forced to postulate that is here that he cultivates his rabid dislike for the film. He hates its heroes and cheers for Iggy Pop and his crass band of villains to kill the infernal bird and forever end this tirade of whining. The exceptionally loud and cacophonous (not to mention downright smelly) musical score and barrage of tattoos that this movie benches at its audience cannot successfully draw scrutiny away from the reality that, at its core, it pos­sesses only a moribund kernel of a nar­rative; and one we have already seen far too many times at that. 
This movie is like the relentless col­lector of tattoos itself, it lacks the per­sonality to attract the attention of oth­ers in itself, so it is forced to employ superficial, and ultimately impotent, measures to render itself interesting. Sadly enough, both entities fail in their pathetic attempts and, in doing so, con­demn themselves to tedious existences as fragile shells supported by a complete vacuum of character. 
This Film Needs A Bullet. ..through the Head 
By MARK TORMA Accent Movie Critic  * 
Usually when I write  
this column, I like to  
devise a lengthy intro­ (out of four)  
duction, move smoothly  

into a discussion of the movie, and then get to my ultimate opinion of the film. 
Not this time. 
In this article, before I spend -or waste -even another moment talking about "Bulletproof," I would like to leave you with this word: 
Tacky. 
Remember that word if you're ever browsing the video store for something by that revolutionary '90's comic, Adam Sandler; I never thought I'd say it, but I'd recommend "Billy Madison" instead. On the Damon Wayans front, I think "Blankman" might be a better choice for home viewing, and don't get me wrong, I like Damon Wayans a lot (and I can tolerate Mr. Sandler). 
"Bulletproof', though, was a horribly mismanaged project for two very funny men (well, Wayans anyway). In lieu of a plot summary, I'll just say that they really should have been honest and called it "Yet Another 48 Hrs." Wayans got Nick Nolte's perpetually PO'd cop role, and did a workmanly job with it ­not sensational, but not bad. Sandler got Eddie Murphy's role of the crook with a 
chip on his shoulder -and oh, my, 
what a mistake that was. 
See, in "48 Hrs.", Eddie Murphy wove 
his comedy schtick, the wisecrackin', the 
jive talkin', into the action, and it 
worked really well. Someone had the 
bright idea to have Adam Sandler do the 
same thing -inject his dim-witted, 
incompetent buffoon into his character. 
Well, like I said before, BIG mistake. 
While the rest of the movie is taking 
itself seriously (and that's another prob­
lem), Sandler is busy playing the same 
fool that we know so well. Wayans is 
always there to rescue him from his 
predicaments, and we have to wonder 
how Sandler could have ever gained the 
utmost trust of "the biggest druglord on 
the West Coast", played by James Caan. 
Keep in mind that this isn't a slapstick comedy ala the "Naked Gun" movies, or "National Lampoon's Loaded Weapon." · It's more like "Lethal Weapon" (or "48 Hrs."). Caan has a hit out on Sandler 
(and therefore on Wayans, his police 
escort, too) and slaughters an entire 
posse of DEA agents to get to them. 
This is all viewed with the utmost 
severity: at the climax of that scene, 
Sandler has to rescue Wayans and him­
self by piloting their disabled plane to 
safety. This is the same character who earlier THAT DAY is captured by high­way patrolmen (yet he escapes Caan's hitmen, who follow him everywhere else). He's on his way to Mexico, but he's found passed out in his car on the side of the road-he has even gotten his dog drunk! I'm sorry, but the Buffoon just does not make a believable action hero. 

I refuse to make Adam Sandler the scapegoat for this disappointment, though. The writing was shameful; I don't want to pigeonhole Wayans, but it failed to make any use of his comedic talents whatsoever. The writers' sugges­tion that Sandler's adolescent criminal is unfailingly honest ("I never lie!"), should offend even the dimmest intellec­tual. 
Yet their worst crime was the neglect of the "buddy" element of this "buddy movie". Wayans and Sandler never real­ly meet at any credible middle-ground; Wayans is grave and professional, and Sandler keeps his SNL routine going throughout. Any possibilities of a real friendship between their characters are, at best, slim to none. 
If that wasn't enough, the direction was horrid; every shot looked amateur­ish, like it had been cut out and pasted by a grade-schooler. In other words, it was visually BORING -and if it wasn't boring, it was incredibly TACKY. Yes, it's that word again. It conjures up memories of "Repo Man", that early Emilio Estevez film that had "Beer" brand beer on all the store shelves. That's funny. In "Bulletproof', however, even when Sandler gets into a sugges­tive, kinky discussion with a backwoods Norman Bates at the tackiest hotel that side of Las Vegas, the humor is diffused: the hitmen show up, the place gets shot up, and it all ends with a truck-chase through the forest. 
This film was horribly lacking some­thing I've taken for granted in movies for a long time -self-awareness. Wayans' character has a little too much of it (his undercover character, a small­time car thief, kept referring to himself as "petty") and he really should have lent some to the people in charge of pro­duction. 
Somehow, they lost their purpose (if they ever had one), and waffied between slapstick and shoot-'em-up. The result is, quite frankly, just bad, and its tacki­ness, like the bullfighter's costume that Sandler wears at the very end, isn't allowed to be funny, so it's just very tir­ing. Just very tacky. 
Mark Torma is a senior living in St. Edward's Hall. 



;ACCE-NT

Monday, September 9, 1996 page 11 
• MOVIE REVIEW 

~~Moreau·· a Success: Stays True to Orii!inal StorY 
Ry JOSHUA BECK Acrrnt Movie Criti< 
Basing a book on a movie is easy. Translating it to the screen with the same clarity and detail as tlw original story is often hard. These days directors arc so gung-ho to add tlwir own idnas to the original script that we are somewhat misled when we think a rnovin will follow closely to an original story. This is often my problem after I read a hook and then the movie comes out some time later. So, as I waited in line for "The Island of Dr. Mon~au," written by H.G. Wells in the 1920's, I was somewhat skeptical. My doubts, however, slowly dissipated as the movie went on. Let's face it: Dr. Moreau is good stuiT. 
As I was watching, I made a note that this is the way movies are supposed to be nHLde. Not ol'ten do you lind a lilm that sticks closely to the original work but makes you think that it could not have been done any better than you just witnessed. This is the third tinw this movie has been remade, and out of all of them, this is simply the best. 
Tlw rnovit~ begins in the middle of the ocean with three men in a raft. After two of thmn meet an untimely demise, the third, Edward Douglas (David Thewlis), floats along for days until he is picked up by a boat and a scientist named Montgomery (Val Kilmer). Montgomery revives him and takes him to an island with the promise of radioing for transportation home as soon as they dock. Douglas is given his own room, and through a curious venture finds out that the majority of the island is inhabited by manimals, humans who are slowly regressing to animal states. 
A tnrrified Douglas then tries to escape and is chased by Montgomery and his half­human cohorts. Douglas meets up with some other friendly manimals .who have had it with the I.aw of the island. The Law basically states that the manimals should act like animals, and therefon~ speed up their regression. Dr. Moreau (Marlon Brando,) the cre­ator of all this mayhem and a brilliant scientist in his own right, enters the picture and takes Douglas back. The reason for this insane experiment is then told. The only prob­lem arises in the controlling of the manimals' behavior. The only way that the mani­mals arn kept in cheek is through a high-pitched electronic signal from Moreau's neck­lat:f~ that sends them into painful lits. 
Tlw plot thickens as llyena, one of the manimals, finds out that a computer chip inside his body has been responsible for his succumbing to the electroshocks. After a gruesonw scene in which he rips it out, everything goes downhill. Hyena develops a hand of followers with the intent of finding the person responsible for their pain and suffering. The rest of the movie is a fast train ride in which the whole island turns upsidn down. The ending is shocking, but somewhat expected under the circumstances. In addition, Wells' philosophical arguments about the differences between man and animal are intnrestingly thought-provoking. 
Tlw acting is what makes "Moreau" the great movie that it is. David Thewlis is bril­liant as Douglas, a man who wants to but cannot escape from his present state. lloweVI~r. he tries to understand the manimals for what they are despite his predica­nwnt. Val Kilmer is in his usual good form as the relaxed, laconic Montgomery, who est~apes from his present situation through other means. Marlon Brando is superb as Mowau, a man who is ridiculed and thought to be insane, but rather comes across as a vnry gnntle man who cares about his constituent manimals. 
I can't givn you a reason not to see "The Island of Dr. Moreau." It is one of the rare gmns that stays trun to its original base while allowing for the advancement of special efl'nets and the art of makeup. The manimals are half-man, half-animal, and you forget that they have bnm1 made to look that way. No matter how grotesque they are, you still cannot lwlp but fnel sorry for them. This film is directed with a knack for following the storylitw while making it seem more interesting at the same time. The acting is superb, and the special t~ffeets are wonderful. So go and see it. 
One otlwr thing: read the book before you go. You won't be disappointed. 
.Josh /leek is a sophomore living in Zahm hall. 
• SOAP OPERA UPDATES 
Days of Our Lives 
By JENIFER KOCH and JULIE BARBOUR 
Days of Our Lives Correspondents 
We would like to start by thanking all of you who responded to last week's article. The tremendous outpouring of admiration went straight to our heads. we assure you. Huge applause goes to Natascha for noticing the absence of half of the Brady clan. We were also wondering about the disappearance of Roman, Kim, and Kayla. Now let's talk about this week in Snlem. 
The search for Will continued this week with Bo and Hope heading up the investigation. While looking through the police sketches, grandmother-of-the­year Marlena finally put two and two together and realized that she had seen Mary with Will in the Paris airport. The ensuing tear-filled confrontation between Marlena and Sami ended with the two of them on a plane bound for Paris. 
With classic "Days" timing, Austin and Carrie found out about the kidnap­ping right before their second wedding attempt. Captain Clueless came through for us again when he realized the crying baby at the inn had been his own( or Uncle Lucas') flesh and blood. 
Mary sold Will, handing him over to a baby broker. She promised him a better life with rich, loving parents. Considering the parenting skills of the Days cast, we're apt to agree that the sale isn't a bad idea. · 
Peter planted a hypnosis device in a hotel mirror, where Kristen used a remote control to place John in a "suggestible" state. Once in the semi-hyp­notic condition, John's true fantasies came out and he began to call for "Doc." That didn't ruin the mood too much for Kristen because she still man­aged to get him into bed. 
After the installation of the brain-washing mechanism, Mr. Go-Go-Gadget Peter tried his hand at disarming small explosives. These were the same bombs that Peter ordered Stefano's henchman George to plant in Ute under­ground tunnels. Peter's plan to destroy all the evidence of his iJlegal activi­ties with Stefano accidentally threatened Jack's and Jen's lives. Peter's love for Jen prevailed as he risked being exposed to save beloved Jon. Jack found Stefano's record books-which implicated Peter-but lost them when the tunnels began to collapse. Jen was conveniently unconscious the whole time, so for the time being, could-1-possibly-be-any-more-naive Jen Is stlll st.a.nding by her man. · 
Flashing back to Paris, Billie makes her long-awaited return hiding behind a bouquet of flowers in Austin's and Carrie's room. Little did you know, Countess W. products branched off from cosmetics and into reconstructive surgery. The new Billie won bonus points early, however, for convincing Carrie to change out of her wedding dress. 
Our SHOCKER of the Week goes to Celeste, who rolled over in bed one morning to expose her new love affair with Laura's ex-beau and Peter's per­sistent blackmailer, Daniel Scott. Stay tuned, Days fans, as all of these stories continue to unfold "like sand through the hourglass." Or maybe a little slow­er than that. 
Keep the e-mailings coming to Jenifer.L.Koch.l@nd.edu and barb2883@,<;aintmarys.edu. 
General Hospital 
By GENEVIEVE MORRILL General Hospil:ll Correspondent 
Last week on GH: psychotic psychiatrist Kevin Collins kidnaps Felicia and begins to drive her to a "safe" place. He slowly drops hints, Felicia puts two and two together, and realizes she's dealing with Kevin's crazed twin/alter ego Ryan. Kevin/Ryan, noting that she has finally seen the light-or lack thereof-just laughs. Tom, Mac, and Lucy find an unconscious Garcia and a doctored tape featuring Mac declaring that Garcia is the stalker...assuring everyone that Kevin is, in fact, the stalker. The exception is Lucy, who can't believe her "Doc" has gone mad. 
On a secluded island, Kevin continues to menace Felicia, who tries to escape when Kevin briefly returns to himself. His dark side soon takes con­trol, and produces a large hunting knife. Lucy, utilizing her librarian skills, finds a clue hidden in Shakespearean verse, and Mac in turn figures out where the missing twosome is located. When the rescuers arrive at the cabin, they only listen to Kevin, not barging in on him because they don't know what he might do under pressure. When Lucy sees Mac bring in a sharp­shooter, she rushes to the eabin to reason with her deranged love. 
Brenda goes home with Sonny to explain how she feels about her part in Uly's death. Sonny is withdrawn and tells her to talk to her husband or to see Dr. Collins for professional help. (Good idea: after the stalking, Kevin's going to need all the referrals he can get.) Gina comes over and gives Sonny a pic­ture of Stone, telling him how she wishes she could have spent more time with him while he was alive. Sonny, in an unpredicted move, invites Mike over for dinner. During dinner, Sonny's dad comments on his habit of adopt­ing all the orphans in town. 
Ned stops off to tell Jax about the move, and notices a cigar and an unusual lighter, which his Mommy Dearest later shows up with. Ned figures Tracy and the Aussie are in cahoots and doesn't tell Brenda, because he fears she 
-.r 

Vid&<)W&tch 
TOP 





\1'o 
1. 
"SUBSTITUTE" 

2. 
"FROM DUSK TILL DAWN" 

3. 
"EXECUTIVE DECISION" 

4. 
"THINGS TO DO IN DENVER WHEN YOU'RE DEAD" 

5. 
"MULHOLLAND FALLS" 

6. 
"MARY RIELY" 

7. 
"BROKEN ARROW" 

8. 
"EYE FOR AN EYE" 

9. 
"RUMBLE IN THE BRONX" 


1O."GIRL SIX" 
COURTESY VIDEOWATCH OF SOUTH BEND 

might let on that the Q's know. 
Carly walks into Jason's apartment and emerges from his shower wrapped in the biggest towel I have ever seen. Jason returns and finds her (gotta start locking that door, Jay!) The verdict: it's over! Carly threatens to tell Hobin and says there is a man who would jump on her in a second. Meanwhile, that same man, Tony, is having a fight with Bobbie over her desire to adopt a lit­tle girl. 
Luke has Mike translate the Greek on Stefan's check: it meo.ns atone-. ment, but Mr. Spencer is not buying a kinder, gentler Cassadine clan. 
Laura tells Nicholas about the death of her mother and its circumstances. He is disbelieving, but upon confronting his uncle, the story is confirmed. Nicholas feels he's been betrayed and now hates everybody. Laura walks in on Luke's stakeout of Windemere, and her husband informs her he doubts her loyalty. Laura tells Luke that he cannot blame her son for his family's sins, but Luke seems all too ready, willing, and able. 
GenelJieve Morrill is a junior at Saint Mary's. Comments and questions of a GH nature may bee-mailed to her at Morr8584@saintmarys.edu. 
~~~--~.---------~------------­
--------------~--~----.r--------------------------------~~-------------~--------~­
1 I 
f 
I page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, September 9, 1996 
I I­
I •NFL 
I 
I Abdul-Jabbar helps spark Dolphins to second win 
I By MEL REISNER in the third quarter as the Dolphins replaced Boomer Esiason at quarter­next play to make it 31-10 with 2:58 
Associated Press Writer 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
Miami Dolphins coach Jimmy Johnson promised that he wouldn't let the strong start of rookie running back Karim Abdul-Jabbar· stop him from playing Irving Spikes, and he kept his word. 
Abdul-Jabbar scored the first touch­downs of the game on a pair of 3-yard runs against Arizona, then Spikes spiked a Cardinals rally with a 1-yard TD run cruised to a 38-10 victory Sunday night. 
Dan Marino threw two touchdown passes to help the Dolphins (2-0) keep pace with AFC East rivals Buffalo and Indianapolis. 
The Dolphins took a 24-0 halftime lead on Abdul-Jabbar's scores, a 20­yard pass from Marino· to Lamar Thomas and Joe Nedney's 36-yard field goal with five seconds to play. 
Arizona (0-2) made a run for it in the third quarter behind Kent Graham, who back. 

Graham broke the Cardinals' drought with a 1-yard scoring pass to Cedric Smith to complete a 69-yard drive. After the kickoff, Abdul-Jabbar fumbled on the first play, and Aeneas Williams recovered on the Miami 28. 
That led to a 26-yard field goal by Greg Davis, making the score 24-10. 
But Spikes ran for 34 and 5 yards on successive carries, caught a 10-yard pass to the Arizona 1, and scored on the remaining in the quarter. 
Miami rookie Zach Thomas forced and recovered a fumble with 1:22 left, and Marino passed 5 yards to O.J. McDuffie for another TD before leaving the game less than five minutes into the fourth quarter. 
Johnson wanted better special-teams play than he saw in a 24-10 opening vic­tory over New England, and he got it against the Cardinals. 
The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Dearlline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Make money selling great 4 SALE $ NEED 3 PURDUE TIX $ NEED: 5 PURDUE, 5 OHIO NEEDOSU GAs European sweaters. Call for inter­2 Purdue GA's STUDENT OR GA'S STATE, 2 AIR FORCE, AND 2 CALL ERIN x1250 
NOTICES 

view. 237-0866 219-271-2837 $ CALL TONY @ X3662 $ WASHINGTON TICKETS. PLEASE HELP ME!! I CALL NEED ND-OSU GA FOOTBALL 
SKYDIVE!I Immediate opening for part-time I am selling a student ticket book. SUSAN X4268. TIX.
:I.e;_ 
TICKETS

I Experience the ULTIMATE afternoon secretary approx. 30 Call Brian at 271-7390 before 1Opm PLEASE CALL 277-4221. I of all sports hrs./wk. Apply at WISSCO Irrigation to inquire. WANTED: TICKETS OSU I Training students for over Inc., 1820 South Bend Ave. or call NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED VS NO 614-687-0380 CALL COL­NEED2 PUR GA 
30 years 277-9851. Within walking distance ALL GAMES HOME Need 3 Washington GAs. Will pay LECT AFTER 9:00PM WILL PAY WELL 1 hour North of South Bend of campus. AND AWAY big $$. x3226 TOP$PAID call X4856
t 
Call for class times 232-0058

I 
GREAT LAKES SKYDIVERS Earn extra money in only five min­24 HAS. Needed: One Student Ticket for Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE Need Ohio State tickets. 
I 
1-800-351-6617 utes a day! Carriers needed to BUY-SELL-TRADE Purdue game. x2085 913-541-3240 Call anytime. 302-832-7786 
I 
1-616-628-4892 deliver the Chicago Tribune within 

I 
the dorms. TICKET-MART, INC. NEED OHIO ST. TICKETS!! n. d. tickets for sale NEED OSU TIXI 
I 
Entertainment Electronics Co. Call 684-4302 for more information. TOP$$ CALL (219)277-1646 271 1635I 3509 Grape Rd (@Classic Stereo) WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE! I 255-1172 WANTED: Black Crowes tix!! ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL WANTED 2 GAs NO VS OHIO S NEED PURDUE TIXIII I Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 1Q-2 need at least 2 or up to 5. call 232-0061. CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131 CALL All 289-4922 CALL4-1440 I You break it, we'll fix itlll wendy at 243 -9430. RON I $$$$ I NEED STUD. TIX SALE 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and SWIM COACH-ASSISTANT I need student Ticket books! ND GRAD WILL TRADE HIS 2 Booklet! I Will pay big$$$ PURDUE STU TIX Breakfast Inn has space available COACH NEEDED FOR LOCAL Leave a message TEXAS/NO TICKETS FOR 2 OHIO Call Mike 243-922411 REG&MARRIED 
I 
I 
I 
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. PRIOR for Bryan at: STATE/NO. CALL (313)821-2599 2719387 private baths, $70 -$90, COACHING EXPERIENCE HELP­273-2812 I NEED a Purdue STUD Tix 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. FUL CALL 289-SWIM. $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ NO parents need 2 Purdue tickets. Call Mike 243-9224 TRADE ONLY -2 WA GAs for 2 Toll Road, Exit #107, Call (630)810-0710. OSU GAs -273-8379. 1-800-41 8-9487 HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR I NEED 2 TIKS!!I!!!!IIIII GA's/Stu for Sale ... Home/Away 
I 
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT Need Purdue tiks GA TICKETS WANTED GA All Games...Leave B/0 for any NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs FOR A GREAT RATE ON (813)360-2243. call Matt Danish x1995 ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS game...Call Tony x0500 FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND RENTERS & AUTO INS. WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY CALL RANDY 257-9572 I HAVE A GREAT-HOPEFULLY I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI 2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS OR Two stud tix for sale -all games (219)422-6088 AMERICAN FAMILY INS. PROFITABLE-IDEA FOR A COM· WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! INDIVIDUAL GAMES x2279 t ~ PUTER GAME. NEED ASSOCI­CALL 243-1287 ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659 STUD TKT BOOK FOR SALE. ATES TO HELP WITH IT. CALL Need 2 GA's for Washington. Will CALL 232-3040 
ILOST & FOUND I 

TOM 288-5655. Need 3 RESERVED SEAT tickets NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED pay big $Julie x2141 for WASH. Call Brian @ 1648. ALL GAMES HOME NO Tickets FOR SALE 
! ~ 
I lost a pair of glasses On-Campus. AND AWAY $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX Call 273-6124 after 7pm 
~ FOR RENT 
If found, please call Drew @x1301. 232-0058 216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F Need 2 Purdue GA's & 24 HAS. 216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F Garcia Needs 3 Purdue NICE HOME NORTH OF NO 1 OSU Student ticket BUY -SELL -TRADE Tix. 233-4008
WANTED 

2773097 Call Sara X0928 NEED STU BKL TS TICKET-MART, INC. Need 2 tix for Purdue & Ohio St. HELP WANTED-$10.25 1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­REG & MARRIED Call 243-9357. 
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW.272-6306 GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232-WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S weekend hours. No exp. required. 7839 ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 2719387 NEED 2 TIX FOR AIRFORCE.call 
•~ 
~ 
All majors welcome. Scholarships OWNER TO SUBLET PURDUE 232-0061. matt x3573
I 
available. Info-call 282-2357 WK-END OR WK 9/13-9/20 AT Dave Mathews/Black Crowes I need 2 Purdue tix-want to trade for VARSITY CLUB RESORT HOTEL 1st 10 Rows 232-0058 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME 2 Pitt GA's? Call 802 273-2554 DESPERATELY NEED WASH. 
•I 
EARN SOME EXTRA$ AT DISCOUNT. SLEEPS 4, GAMES.272-6551 GA'S. CALL #2456 
I 
caring for 3 adorable children. KITCHEN, HOT TUB, POOL, JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND NO ALUM NEEDSI 1 or 2 days, near campus. SPORTS LOUNGE, ETC. $200 RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITI TIX HELP!! I Need 1 st. tix and 2 GAs to 287-9669. WK-END NITES, $700/WK. 219-PLEASE CALL 232-0058 BOUGHT & SOLD CALL MIKE 212-372-7214 Purdue. Call Gail243-1439. leave a ~ 291-5849 232-2378 -A.M. message if before 5pm. PLEASE! International "lifestyles" magazines NEED: 2 GAs for PURDUE for my 288-2726-P.M. Need tickets for N.D.-Texas ~ needed,'96'. ROOMS-NICELY DECOR. IN PRI­parents. Please call, Katie x2855 Sept.21 Call 1-800-840-3548 Esp. Asian. I will pay$. VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­NO ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL PERSONAL Carmen 243-9360 PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT. NEED 2 OHIO STATE GA SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­'93 Alum needs 1 GA or stud. tix. BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340 TIX.. .WILL PAY$$$ AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL for Purdue game (sorry your buddy Who cares about Regis Philbin 
f 
Need spending $$ ? City News Call Gina 243-0771 2773097 can't make it-sell me your extra). when DENISE CAMPBELL'S PAR­needs carriers to deliver morning House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45 Kevin 704-365-2214, wein­ENTS will be on the NEWLYWED papers door-to-door in residence min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP $$$$$$$ FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED mankc@aol.com GAME?!?! Mon., Sept. 9, noon, halls. Takes only an hour per day. APPL. $650. 317·942-2108 FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2 channel 28. Watch itlll Start now. Call Mike 4-1186. after 6-317-942-2408. I will buy your student ticket packet! OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER NEED 2 OR 4 TIX FOR PURDUE, 
CALL ROBT. COLLECT OSU, OR WASH CALL BILL 614-Chestnut House B&B, OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE Grape Call Sean at 243-1340 216-439-2192 AFTER 4 885-4616 St. Joseph, MI.
FOR SALE

Road has a few positions still avail­Elegantly decorated home over­able for confident individuals inter­$$$$$$$ WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE NO Alum has PITI GA's to TRADE looking Lake Michigan and only 40 ested in the following positions: Mac Pwrbk 150, $500 OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL for OSU GA's. Call Brian (717-566-mins. from NO. wait, host, bus and kitchen. ND Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000 WILL TRADE 2 PITI GA's OR 2 DAVE (614)764-7355 5856). Leave message. Luxuriate in double whirlpools, pri­Football season is under way and 271-8280 RUTGERS FOR 2 PURDUE vate baths, full breakfasts & hors sales are booming. Do not miss outl 2WASH 20SU OR2BC 2773097 Buying N.D .. Football Tickets, NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233-d'oeuvres served fireside. Apply after 3PM any afternoon. 1986 MAZDA 323 Public and F acuity Seats 5719 FOR BILL-ANY GAMES (616) 983-7413. 
! 
4 DOOR, 5 SPEED, A/C, Call 1-800-255-2850 HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS(3) AM/FM CASSETIE, 106 K, STUDENT TIX. BOOK FOR SALE G.A.'S SEASON TICKETS !Ill I IAUDITIONSI!IIII NEED TUTORS FOR GEOMETRY, EXCELLENT CONDITION. call 272-5702 Need Texas tickets for family who G.A. WANTED PLEASE HELP IF for SMC's production of ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY & TRIG $2500. CALL 272-4562 lives in area. Call Samantha at 4-YOU CAN CALL 273-6929 THE LADY FROM DUBUQUE PHYSICS, BIOLOGY, & GENERAL WANTED: Black Crowes tix ... 2550. 8 GREAT ROLES 
I 
STUDY HELP. PREFER TUTOR 91 Geo Prizm, 4 Dr, 5 Speed, need at least 2 or up to 5. call REALLY REALLY NEED WASH­4 women, 4 men TO COME TO HOME(5 MIN FROM AM/FM Cassette, 92K Highway wendy at 243 -9430. Need Two Washington G.A.'s for INGTON GA'S. PLEASE CALL (One man MUST be African ND), BUT OTHER ARRANGE­miles, $5,300. 273-0153 family, my tuition depends on it. 243-9398 OR 273-9278 ASAP. American) MENTS CAN BE MADE 272-8235 I'll trade my 2 Purdue GAs for your Will pay HUGE bucks! Sept. 11 & 12, 7p.m. 
I 
87 Mazda auto 90k Great Condition 2 Washington GAs.Bob.277-2510. Call Matt@ 234-8474 Thanks. need married/student booklets Regina Room 16 (Acting Studio) I NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­2300 John 631-6414 x1528 jaret No Preparation Needed! Positions are now availalbe at I want to trade my 4 Purdue GA's FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT I I I EVERYONE WELCOME I I I 
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife PowerMac 7200/90, 8 MB (together)+$(?) for O.S.U. GAs. YOU I Alum seeks happiness & WANTED FB TIX to any home 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + $1,800 Call (303) 543-9534. fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­game for visiting brother. Student Won't you be bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 Lima.1 @ or 273-0824 •••********frEE loVE*•************ ly pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs. or GA. Will pay$$. x2119 Won't you be extN55848 OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred, Won't you be 
Desperately Need AIR FORCE but not picky. Please call our busi­Leaving early for Oct. Break? Sell My neighbor? ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 85 Escort Wagon 5 speed 76730 tickets (Stu or GAs)! ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or me your AIR FORCE tickets! -Students Needed! Fishing miles new muffler new battery runs Call Steph 634-4135 JENNIFER. 616-925-0629 $$$$! 271-2349 Sarah Lardy B! Industry. Earn up to $3,000-great. $ 700. Call 2730558 No soup for you! I want a long dis­$6,000+ per month. Room and MARRIED STUD BOOK 4 SALE NEED Football Tickets Looking for PITI student tix....$$$ tance Putt-Putt rematch: Chicago to Board! Transportation! Male or N D stud tickets for sale 277-3864 271-2349 Sarah Utica! Female. No experience necessary. call255 6617. 2 for OSU, Washington, Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 NEED 2 STD TIX BOOKLETS Airforce, Pitt NEED 2-4 GA TIX Want to hang out in a fabulous, 
Who Needs A Bed? CALL GIOVANA@ 1-4872 ALL HOME GAMES. cosmopolitan city? STUDY IN EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-2 new single beds for sale! Call Laura 232-2976 CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5 CHILE I mtg: 9/16 at 4:30 in 117 Teach basic conversational English Mattress, Boxspring, and !!!!!PLEASE HELP!IIII DeBartolo in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No Headboard included. Asking $275 I NEED PURDUE STUD. AND GA PLEASE HELPII!! Needed: PURDUE student ticket or teaching certificate or European each. Call Jarrod at TIX IN A BAD WAY. CALL SOON, I need three GA'S for Purdue. G.A. Tim X-1643. Bob Enyart fans: The Bob Enyart fan languages required. Inexpensive 234-7601. x-2235 (Seth or Ben) call Brian @ 2182 club meets every night at midnight. Room & Board + other benefits. For I AM DESPERATE FOR A GA OR Anyone is welcome; firm ideas about info. call: 92 JETIA 67K SSP, CRUISE, NEED 2 PURDUE GAs Need 1 tic for Purdue STUDENT TICKET FOR PUR-welfare and public schools are a 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~ 
Monday, September 9, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• u.s. OPEN 


Sampras captures fourth title 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Staggernd and sick one match. light and worried the next, Pete Sampras put on an impeccable show of force and grace in tlw final Sunday night to daim his fourth U.S. Open championship. 
From his first 125 mph ser­vice winner to his last at 117 mph, Sampras defended his tilln by blowing away Miehuel Chang f1-l, 6-4. 7-6 (7 -3) in two hours -a half-hour less than tlw rain delay after Stem Gntl"s straight-set victory over Moniea Seles for the women's title. 
Sampras secured his No. 1 ranking and salvaged a tor­t un~ d ye a r hy do minati ng Chang in ev1~ry aspect of the match, even winning long ral­lies to prove that he could beat Chang at his own game. 
To see Sampras sprinting so lightly, moving so quiekly and hammering shots so hard for his eighth Grand Slam title, no onn who hadn't heard of his prohlnrns a few days earlier would helievn he could have been so close to defeat in the 
quarll~rlinals. 
Yet the grit Sampras exhibit­ed in bnating Alex Corretja in the quarters, even after vomit­ing and wobbling wearily on court in their fifth-set tiebreak­er, showed up in his unflinch­ing attack against Chang. 
The slip of concentration, the bit of a choke that sent Sampras into a fourth set against Goran lvanisevic in the semis, helped him in this match by steeling him against any let­down. 
Sampras put together all of his skills-his awesome, accu­rate serves, his penetrating groundstrokes, his stinging vol­leys and leaping overheads ­to fashion a victory as artful as it was overwhelming. 
"Pete played some great ten­nis today," Chang said. "It was one of those tough days." 
Sampras, who measures his year by his Grand Slam victo­ries, would have considered 1996 a failure if he let this match get away. 
lie fell early in the Australian Open, the semis of the French and the quarters of Wimbledon. More significant than any of that, he had suf­fered emotionally the whole year as his coach and friend, Tim Gullikson, lay dying of brain cancer and passed away in May. 
"It's been very emotional," Sampras said. 
Sampras played near perfect tennis in the first set, starting with that 125 mph service win­ner on the first point, followed by two aces and 120 mph ser­vice winner to take the game. 
After that welcome to his first 
U.S. Open final, Chang looked shaken and tight. Before he could settle into the match, he found himself broken twice, trailing 5-0 amid a flurry of his own errors and Sampras aces and winners. 
Chang, still searching for his second Grand Slam title seven years after capturing the French Open at 17, didn't begin to steady himself until he was down another break at 2-0 in the second set. Chang held twice in a row for the first time, and at 3-2 finally found the range on returns to put some pressure on Sampras, who ac­commodated him with a dou­ble-fault on his second break­point to make it 3-3. 
The fans let loose a loud roar. hoping Chang would mount a comeback and at least make it close. They had endured the long wait during the thunder­storm and, as always, wanted to see their money and patience rewarded. 
What they got was a third-set tiebreaker that Sampras domi­nated as much as he did the first set to take the $600,000 winner's check. 
Chang, who took home $300,000, lost to Sampras for the ninth time in their last 10 meetings. 
This final was the last match in the 18-year-old, 20,000-seat stadium, which will be lopped ofT near the top and reduced to a 10,000-seat show court out­side the new 23,500-seat sta­dium next year. 
Sampras didn't wax nostalgic about the court, though he pro­duced some of his most memo­rable victories on it. It was here that he became the youngest Open champion in 1990, beat­ing Andre Agassi in straight sets, and here that he won again in 1993 against Cedric Pioline and last year against Agassi once more. 
With this victory, Sampras joined John McEnroe and Jimmy Connors as the only players in the Open era to win the U.S. Open at least four times. McEnroe won it four times, Connors five. 

Graf tops Seles to extend win streak 
By STEVE WlLSTEIN Seles, who still shares the No. Associated Press Writer 1 ranking with Graf. Graf won the French Open . NEWYOHK for the tifth time, Wimblodon 
Steffi Graf timea her flnal for the seventh time and, after volley perfectly, knocking off almost skipping the U.S. Open Monica Seles once more and because of a calf injury, won beating a rainstorm by sec· this, too, while her jailed onds Sunday to secure a fifth father, Peter, was on trial in 
U.S. Open title. Germany for evading taxes on 
1

Near the end of one of the $28 million of her income. She greatest and worst years of remains under investigation in her life, Graf captured her that ca.<>e. third straight Grand Slam title "It was really, really difficult and the 21st of her caret~r to to play this tournament," Graf strengthen arguments that she said. "I was really struggling is the best women's tennis to remain focused." player in history. Somehow, Graf managed to 
Amid thunder and lightning, put aside all h~lr problems and Grars forehand volley clipped keep pounding winners on the the net cord and hopped out of court. Seles' reach to finish otT the 7-"There was a big question of 5, 6-4 victory. If the ball had how I would be able to play," popped back the other way, said Graf, who has won the they would have been off the last six Grand Slam events court immediately, waiting out she's played. "I was really the rain, the outcome unde· nervous. Once 1 got on the cided. · '"' court, I loosened up and I was 
As it was, both players had so much more relaxed. I don't to bundle up during the award know how or why. I didn't ceremony as the rain poured expect to be able to show this and the wind blew. kind of tennis today." 
"I don't think I felt the rain Graf said she was so ner~ at all," said Graf, whose vous because she felt she happiness took her mind off hadn't played well the whole the storm. tournament, despite not drop­,,,, Grars timing and accuracy ping a set. were nearly perfect the whole ''I really needed to take time match. She served 10 aces and between the points today," kept Seles scrambling from she said. "I wanted to calm corner to corner as she beat down, concentrate on where I her in the Open final for tho wanted to hit it. Even though I second year in a row. was nervous. I still played the 
"Steffi clearly is No. 1. points well. I guess I believe in Anyone can see that," said myself." 
-., 

For the fifth year in a row, SMC proudly presents. • Ellen Gootblatt and her nationally recognized lecture, ''Meeting, Dating, Relating and Mating'' Monday, September 9, 1996 7:oo pm, Carroll Auditorium NO CHARGE!!  •  

I' page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 9, 1996 
I 
I 
I • NFL 

Redskins shock listless Bears 

lJn and coming 
By STEVE WYlAND 
Associated Press W rirer 
WASHINGTON 
Ken Harvey, Sean Gilbert and Co. -carrying all the pent-up fury of a Washington Redskins defense maligned for three years -punished, harassed and bulldozed the Chicago Bears on Sunday. 
Led by Harvey's key fourth­quarter sack, Gilbert's continu­ous pressure and Stanley Richard's tide-turning hit that forced a fumble, the Redskins held an opponent without a touchdown for the first time since 1993 in Sunday's 10-3 victory. 
The result was a stark turn of fortunes for both teams from Week 1, when the Bears (1-1) took an emotional win over the Super Bowl champion Dallas Cowboys and the Redskins (1-1) came out unprepared in a loss to division rival Philadelphia. 
Terry Allen scored the lone touchdown on a three-play, third-quarter drive highlighted by two catches by 14-year vet­eran receiver Henry Ellard. 
The Bears were driving to take the lead at the other end minutes earlier, but Richard jarred the ball loose from Michael Timpson after a third­down reception at the Redskins 
25. . 
Darrell Green scooped up the fumble and returned it 14 yards, setting up the touch­down drive that showcased Ellard at his best. 
Left a huge cushion by rookie cornerback Walt Harris, Ellard caught a pass on the first play of the drive for a 27-yard gain. On the next play, he stretched to catch the ball on a out pat­tern at the sideline, just manag­ing to drag his left foot on the ground for a 16-yard pickup. 
Then, the Bears gambled on a linebacker blitz, leaving no one home on the right side as Allen ran 28 yards untouched for the score. 
The Redskins defense did the rest, with Rich Owens and play at the ~nd to win the f(')ot· ball galD.e;.. .. . ·


Chiefs frustrate Raiders, 19-3 
By DOUG TUCKER 
Associated Press Writer 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
The once-great Oakland Raiders can't seem to stop the misery. 
James Hasty burned them with a defensive touchdown for the second year in a row and Kansas City cruised 19-3 Sunday, handing Oakland its eighth straight loss dating back to last season. It was also the Chiefs' 13th victory in the last 14 meetings in one of the old­est, bitterest and now most lop­sided rivalries in the NFL. 
Every Chiefs score came as a direct or indirect result of a mistake by the Raiders (0-2), who went for the second straight week with Billy Joe Hobert in place of injured quar­terback Jeff Hostetler. 
The Chiefs (2·0), beginning defense of their AFC West title, were nursing a 7-0 lead mid­way through the third period when Oakland mounted its first serious drive. On second-and­goal from the 5, seven-time All­Pro Derrick Thomas beat Pat Harlow's block and delivered a savage hit on Hobert's blind side, knocking the ball loose. 
Hasty, whose electrifying 64­yard interception return vault­ed the Chiefs to a 23-17 over­time victory over Oakland in Arrowhead Stadium last year, picked up the ball on the 20 and sped 80 yards untouched. It was the third game in a row the Chiefs have scored a defen­sive TD in their domination of the Raiders. 
Six plays earlier, Harlow was penalized for illegal use of hands in his desperate effort to contain the rush of Thomas, who turned the same trick in the fourth quarter. With 3:12 left, Thomas again beat Harlow and separated Hobert from the ball. Barrett Robbins recovered in the end zone for the Raiders, giving the Chiefs a safety. 
The frustrated Raiders re­sorted to trickery in an effort to get moving in the third quarter and, if not for yet another mis· take, it might have produced points. 
Jeff Gossett went back to punt and then faked a handoff on an endaround to Dan Land. The play fooled everybody, and Gossett kept the ball for 18 yards and a first down on the Chiefs 35. 
But a few minutes later, when Cole Ford lined up for a 43­yard field goal, the center snap went through Gossett's hands, and he was tackled by Dale Carter on the Chiefs' 45. 
Nine plays later, Pete Stoyanovich kicked a 23-yard field goal to put the Chiefs on top 17-0. 
A 23-yard pass interference penalty on Albert Lewis set up the Chiefs on the 1-yard line in the second quarter. Tony Richardson made a fumbling catch of Steve Bono's pass in the end zone on the next play. 
Ford's 48-yard field goal with 
7:01 left kept the Raiders from getting shut out. 
Gilbert sacking Erik Kramer at 

:()··'.·· .• ....,.,·······.··.·:.·Y ..,.••:.:·.•.•:....•.·i.·!fiii.·;~:: . · J.' .. ....·g·: .:./:
.•..· '.i'.•i.,:~.:,··J.. ..,·;:.•:•q.;,.w:;;:..<l•illlhli·i:t·:·i..•.~.:··::·• ..• ·.,.,..·····.··.····,·······'·•.r ·.. ·· 
·· ... :· 1ers,···liOJ2 a uars
his own 1 on the next drive, 
and Rod Stephens adding a later sack. 
The Bears got inside the Redskins 20 twice late in the fourth quarter, but Harvey knocked Andy Heck back like a paper bag to sack Kramer on a third-and-9 on the first drive, and Kramer's fourth-down pass fell incomplete in the waning seconds to close out the final threat. 
The first half was less excit­ing. Somewhere among the nine punts, most of them can­non-shots by Todd Sauerbrun and Matt Turk that elicited "oohs" and "ahhs" -or were they yawns? -from the RFK Stadium crowd, there was a 37­yard field goal by Chicago's Carlos Huerta, and a 50-yarder by Washington's Scott Blanton tied it 3-3 at halftime. 
Redskins quarterback Gus Frerotte completed 18 of 29 passes for 177 yards. 
Kramer was 19-for-37 for 167 yards and one interception. 


Heilnn.B,n Ti'ophy winner Eddie Ge()rge and the Houston Oilers made enough big plays to build a big lead over the Jacksonville Jaguars. 
Thed¢t~~se finally caught on intbn~to save the game. 
George, the No. 6 pick in the draft, broke the Jaguars' backs with a 76-yard run that led to Chris Chandler's third toqchdown pass, and the defeD:se l';alD.e up with two turnovers in the final three minutes to preserve a 34-27 victory. 
The OHers (1~ 1) lost seven of eight games last year that were. deciq~d by seven ppints or rewer~ and opened the sea­son lastweek with a 20:..19 loss to· Kansas City. 
"We made it close," said coach Jeff Fisher. ''We· found a way to make a 
Pete Mitchell on the 2-ya.rd line, and Rafael Robinson reco · with 3:08 remain­ing. 
Th(l Jaguars (l-1) made it close when Chris Hudson returned a punt 46 yards to the 3, and· Keenan McCardell made a juggling catch for a touchdown to get within 34· 27. 
Dave Thomas recovered the onside kick, but Mark Brunell's pass on the first play after the two-minute warning bounced high off Mitchell's hands, tl:p.d Marcus Robertson dove for the interception at 
the  10"yard  line.  It  was  
Robertson's  second  in­ 
terception of the game.  

George finished with 17 car· rles fot 143 yards and a touchdown. 
"1 didn't want to get tired, but I did, .. said George. "I saw Jeff Lageman coming up and I said, 'Oh, no, this is going to be u~ll:/ · I just spun out of it andalLof a sudden there was this greengrass." 
Chandler was 14-of-22 for 226 yards. The Oilers had at least one play for 20 yards on five of its first seven posses­sions. 
"I don't think we held up our end of the bargain,'' said Jaguars' linebacker Bryan Schwartz. 
"Eddie George is a big, back and it's going to take three or four guys to get on him. The Oilers were making big plays and that was a big one. That took the wind out of our sails." 
The Oilers took a 34-13 lead early h" the fourth quarter after aJ6-play drive that last­ed more than 10 minutes and ended with AI Del Greco's 29­yard field goal. 
Brunell was 27-of-38 for 302 yards~ The Jaguars had no troublemoving tbf:l·b~U, but Hou!,iton's defense came up with timely plays twice inside the 20: 
At fttst-and-10 from the 11 with Houston leading 17-10, Gary Walker broke through the line and stuffed James Stewart for a 3-yard loss. The 
In a scoreless first period, the Chiefs began drives on their own 8, 6, 30 and 3-yard line. But the Raiders were also stymied and managed only one scoring threat, when Napoleon Kaufman broke about five tack­les on a 33-yard run to the Chiefs 41. But Keith Traylor br9ke through Barrett Robbins' block a few minutes later and got a hand on the ball when Ford tried a 43-yard field goal. 
Stoyanovich, obtained this year in a trade with Miami, missed his first field goal at­tempt in Arrowhead Stadium. His 47-yard attempt early in the second quarter hit the right upright. 

George had the kind of play that should have made the defeD:sive heroics unneces­sary. 
Mike Hollis had just missed a 3l•yard field goal for the Jaguars ..;;.;. their second time inside the 20 in the second half without a touchdown ­and they had Houston facing first-and-20 from the 11. 
Seemingly trapped in the backfield on a draw, George avoided tackles by Jeff Lageman and Joel Smeenge, eluded safety Travis Davis and then galloped to the 13-yard line, <0L. 
That set l1P Chandler'$ U~ yard touchdown pass to· WUlie Davis and a 31·13 lead. 
''That gave the whole team a 
Recycle The Observer 

lift," saidsafety Blaine Bishop. 
''With. 4l)ig burst liketh4t. 
Y'9t1 co\llq ~~~e P,at this gl\tpe 
·was-over; The defE!nsealfuost· 
gave lt bat?~· but we 'cam~ ~P 
with the bJg plays when we 
had to.'' 

Bishop had· one of them. 
After the Jaguars cut the lead, to ~4-20, Bishop jarred the ball loose from tight end 
BECOME A CATHOLIC 
Sacred Heart Parish 
Happy 21sT University of Notre Dame 
Birthday. KATIE 

Offers FRACISCOI 
R.C.I.A. with: 
Love. 

• 
Parish setting on ND campus 

• 
Wednesday evening sessions



Mom. Dad. 

• Alt(wnative to Campus Ministry RCIA 
.John. Rob. and .Justin 

Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 




Visit your campus computer store for the best deals on a Mac. 

Notre Dame Computer Store Room 112 COMB • 631-7477 Monday -Friday 9am -5pm 
•Both the 5400 and 190 include built in ethernet and 25 foot RJ-45 network cable
PowerPC60lll20 MH2'1/6MB RAM PowerPC603e/120 MH2'116MB RAM J.2GB/4X CD-ROM/15"display J.6GB/8X CD-ROMI/5"display 

Free one-year Apple warranty. 
Offer expires OckJber ll, 1996. ©1996 A[ple Computer; Inc. All rights reserved Apple, the A[ple logo, AppleCare, Laserlf!iler, Mac, Macintosh, Performa, PowerBook, Power Macintosh and SlyleWriler are registered trademarks ofA[ple Computer, Inc. PowerPC is a trademark oflnlernalional Business Machines Corporation,
used under license therefrom. 

Monday, September 9, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 I I 
•NFL 
I I 
Niners top Rams, Young hurt Cowboys, Aikman ·l 
By DENNIS GEORGATOS switch. scoring drives in San Associated Press Writer Steve Walsh, booed at home Francisco's 12th straight win over his ineffectiveness in St. over the Rams (1-1). 





humiliate Giants 
SAN FHANCISCO 

San Francisco's defense, usu­ally overshadowed by the 49ers' high-powered offense, stole the spotlight Sunday. 
Helping make up for the loss of quarterback Steve Young. the defense scored on a pair of safeties and registered its first shutout in seven years in a 34-0 win over the St. Louis Hams. 
"How about that Ham '0'?," said Young, forced out in the third quarter with a groin strain. "It looks like the other teams offense is literally play­ing uphill. It's a phenomenal thing to wateh. The domination is eomplete." 
The Rams committed four turnovers and the 49ers' de­fensive pressure hounded St. Louis into a quarterback Louis' season-opening win over Cincinnati last week, threw a first-quarter interception and was pulled in favor of rookie Tony Banks, who fumbled three times after being sacked. He also was sacked for a safety for the game's first points in the second quarter. 
"He was kind of confused a little bit. I don't think he ever really got a grip on what was going on," said defensive tackle Bryant Young, who had three of San Francisco's seven sacks and tackled Banks in the end zone. "As soon as he set up he had to run out of the pocket so he never got a chance to estab­lish himself." 
Elvis Grbac, who replaced Young after the starter was in­jured, led two fourth-quarter 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1997-98 Academic Year "Top Ten Reasons Why You Should Not Go to Angers" With Professor Paul McDowell 
Tuesday, September 1 0, 1996 7:30pm Room 115 O'Shaughnessy 
~~~ 

~~:~\i . 




~~~n 111tli~ni1~1 
Walsh completed 2 of 6 pass­es for 13 yards before being yanked in favor of Banks, who finished 6 of 16 for 69 yards. With the game out of reach, Banks gave way to Jamie Martin in the closing minutes. 
\'We were totally ineffective on offense. I just wanted to see if a change might spark us," St. Louis coach Rich Brooks said. "It was a tough situation to put a rookie into. It turned out to be a tough day for him and the entire offense." 
Walsh was disappointed that he was replaced by Banks. 
"It's frustrating to come out of a zero-zero game because there's a lot of plays left," Walsh said. "I was a little sur­prised. Obviously, I felt I could turn it around." 
Brooks said he was inclined to start Walsh in the Rams' game against Washington in two weeks but made no guar­antee. 
Jeff Wilkins kicked three field goals, including a 22-yarder with 3:47 left in the third quar­ter. 

By DENNE H. FREEMAN 
Associated Press Writer 
IRVING, Texas 
Cancel the burial detail. The Dallas Cowboys finally looked like Super Bowl champions again. 
Troy Aikman rediscovered Dallas' lost offense by throwing three touchdown passes Sunday, and the Cowboys, stung by a bumbling loss to Chicago, celebrated their home opener with a 27-0 victory over the New York Giants. 
The much-criticized first­team offense, which hadn't scored a touchdown since the exhibition season opener against Oakland, went 50, 81, and 71 yards for touchdowns to lead 21-0 at intermission. 
Aikman had missed sus­pended wide receiver Michael Irvin and injured tight end Jay Novacek. But this was a day of few busted assignments, crisp route running, perfect passes and stout defense that kept the Giants from crossing midfield 
sted in Winter or ng Track & Field? 
to an informational meeting Loftus on Wednesday 
eptember I I at 4:00 pm 
[as long as they

for New Mellencamp, Rusli &R.E.M ! 
last!J

+l~e return of t~e 1, 2, 3, sale! 
Limited edition 
R.E.M Posters w/ purchase 
Buy one CD Save a buck. Buy two, 
save two bucks. Buy three, save three bucks on 
EACH 
non-sale, new CD! z3 

ate aoad 
Tracks 
TRACKS has
has used 

posters,
cd•s
and 

jewelery,
we buy 

imported 
qual1ty 

clothing.
used 
cd•s 

stickers, c::h 
for 

insence 
trade 


and more! 

011 Sl In Campus Shoppes . 277-8338--www.kiva.net/-tracks/ 
until late in the game. 
After the Giants (0-2) stopped Dallas (1-1) on their goal line early in the first period, Aikman hit Deion Sanders with a 9-yard scoring pass, flipped a 19-yard touchdown pass to Kevin Williams and found Emmitt Smith with a 5-yard scoring pass just two seconds short of halftime. 
Sanders, who went both ways again but didn't come close to the 108 plays in Chicago, beat cornerback Jason Sehorn for the first touchdown pass after the Giants compiled 39 yards in pass interference penalties. 
Aikman, who has only a 9-6 record against New York. showed a perfect touch on the pass to Williams on third-and-1 from the Giants 19. 
Smith, still playing with a sore neck courtesy of a self­inflicted injury at Chicago on a play-fake, sneaked past line­backer Corey Widmer on the beat-the-clock touchdown pass. 
Smith showed no problems with his neck injury and rushed for 94 yards on 25 carries. 
Aikman completed 19 of 27 passes for 228 yards for the re­vamped Cowboys offense. 
Chris Boniol hit field goals of 23 and 29 yards in the second half as the Cowboys played conservatively. 
It was the sixth consecutive time Dallas defeated the Giants in Texas Stadium. The Giants opened the season by losing 23-20 to Buffalo in overtime. 
New York started the season last year by losing 35-0 to Dallas, the last time the team was shut out. The Giants' deep­est penetration was to the Dallas 44 with 5:39 to play. Through the first three quar­ters, the Giants had minus-6 yards passing. 
WOULD GET YOU, OR YOUR PEERS 
TO COME TO THE 



GOODWILL 
ON N. EDDY ST.? 

HOW? 
Design an ad for Goodwill that will run In The Observer, markeUng the store on N. Eddy Sl towards Notre Dame & Sl Mary's students. 
Add to your portfolio, receive some recognHion, and make some money. Yepl MAKE SOME MONEY! Winners will receive $25 cash, or a$25 gift certificate for the Goodwill store on N. Eddy St. Contest Is open to any current Notre Dame or Sl Mary's student 
Ad size Is 2 columns (3.9751n.) x 6 ln. Send your design to: Attn: Rich Luke & Landis Advertising Agency, INC. 1014 N. Greene Road Goshen, IN 46526 Include name, address, & phone number. 
For more Information, call (219) 534-0388• .......... 
Multiple entries will be accepted and a prize ~~~~~~..PJII-trll 
will be awarded for each ad chosen, so enter as many times as you like. Deadline for entries is September 20, 1996. 
: ,..... ,-._, 

All entries submitted become the property of Goodwill Industries and Luke &Landis Advertising Agency, INC. _.. 
I 





Informational Meeting: 
1st Season of Varsit ompetition in 1.99 


Tuesday, September lOth Loftus Auditorium at 5:00 P.M. 
Questions? Tracy Coyne 631..4719 
page 16 


I 
Kara Brown'* 

I I I 
Jen Grubb I I 
Kate Sobrero 

I I I 
Shannon Brown 

I I 
Jenny Streiffer. 

I I I 
Monica Gerardo I I Erin Saltzman 
I 
II . c 
Holly Manthei 

I 
I Erin Pochman 
I 
Erica Walsh 

I 
Heather Maier 

IndividualAwards 
Offensive MVP Holly Manthei Notre Dame Defensive. 
::;:;.;_.. 
Outstanding Jen Renola 
Goalkeeper Notre· Dame 
The Observer • SPORTS 

Soccer 
continued from page 20 
score. On the way down, Gerardo collided with the Huskies keeper and turned her ankle. She was helped off the field, and her status is still in question. 
Streiffer also scored a goal in each of her first two games at Alumni Field .. 
"It was definitely exciting to be out there in front of the fans," she said. 
Immediately following the goal by Gerardo, Daws and freshman Jenny Heft connected on a give-and-go. 
Heft got the assist on the effort with a sliding pass to the cutting Daws. 
On the other side of the ball, Washington had troubles pene­trating the defense as they got off less than ten shots. Senior goal keeper Jen Renola did have to make an occasional save. 
Thirteen minutes into the 

second half. Renola preserved r---------------------­

her shutout by punching the ball just shy of the goal post in mid-air. 
"This win was tough for us," stated Streiffer. "It was so tough because we were tired, which showed a little bit." 
The Irish had their first home victory against the Wisconsin Badgers on Friday night, 3-1. The Badgers looked over­m.atched by the Irish's speed and agllity. 
Streiffer, Manthei, and Heft were able to exploit the Badger's defense. Brown turned in a stellar performance with two goals, while Boxx also tallied one. 
"Overall this weekend was good for us," said Petrucelli. 
Monday, September 9, 1996 


The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Junior midfielder Holly Manthei was once again a key ingredient in Notre Dame's successful two game sweep over the weekend. 
. 4--­



Troop 
Samt Mary's Colle~ 
NOTRE DAME· INDIANA 



N.D. 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's only Hip-Hop Dance Club 
Organizational Meeting 
Monday, September 9, 1996 8:30PM Montgomery Theater, LaFortune 
• 


-----~-------~-----------------------~-~------------------~--~----­



Monday, September 9, 1996 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
matches. 
The home team had the even­tual tournament champs Cardinals on the ropes but failed to deliver the knock out blow as Louisville's hitting ma­chine Marina Sinchenko, out of the Institute of Metal and Alloys in Moseow, reeorded 18 of her mateh high 22 kills in the final three games. 
"We came out very strong and played our game early," observed senior outside hitter Kristina Ervin. "After the sec­ond game, the focus wasn't thenl. That kind of loss hurts morale but we just have to take it as a learning experience and lite it away." 
Head coach Debbie Brown coneurs, "This was a very very disappointing loss beeause we played very well in the first two games, but we allowed them to gnt back in the match." 
The Louisville and Stanford losses combined were the first back-to-hack horne losses .in head eoaeh Debbie Brown's six year tenure. Their record un­der Brown at horne now stands at 71-6. 
In Saturday's action, the Irish 
You Are Invited to Attend An Informational Presentation 
Business Majors: 

• Accounting • Finance • Economics  
When: Where: Why:  Wednesday, September 11, 1996 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. Morris Inn Alumni Room To let you know... •Who we are • What we do • Who we are looking for • What we can offer you  
Refreshments will be served  

PETERSON CoNSULTING LLc 
Peterson Consulting will be conducting campus interviews on October 7 & 8 
General Meeting for 

"®s. ~izarb·· <Va_y 
1997 Volunteers: 
Tuesday, September lOth at 7:00pm Room 116 O'Shaughnessy 
bounced back with two 3-0 sweeps of Kentucky and Indiana. All-Tournament selections senior hitter Jenny Birkner and freshman middle blocker Mary Leffers continued their fine play. LeiTers led the team in blocking while Birkner and Angie Harris led the team in kills. 
In the morning match, Kentucky could not handle the Irish attack as the match only took 50 minutes. Notre Dame dominated action 15-5, 15-1, 15-9 with Leffers totaling 11 kills and an excellent .526 hit­ting percentage. 
In the Indiana State Championship, the Hoosiers gave the Irish a very competi­tive contest but Indiana came up on the short end of a 15-12, 15-11, 15-7 final. 
A lift for the banged up Irish came in the form of Kristina Ervin who has come back after a sprained ankle suffered in the first match of the year. 
"It was great to see Kristina come back because earlier peo­ple were dropping like flies," commented Harris. 
"It's great to have her back," Brown expressed. "She is a very, very good passer. She doesn't have her range of mo­tion back yet, but she'll be 100 percent in a couple of weeks. 


F:irst Meeting of the 



PRELAW SOCIETY 
All 
Tuesday, September 10 Students 
7:00 pm. 120 Law
Welcome 


All Student Organizations 
There will be a mandatory meeting of all student organization officers on: 
Academic: Wednesday, September 4, Montgomery Theater -4 pm 
or Thursday, September 5, Montgomery Theater-7 pm 
Athletic: Wednesday, September 4, Montgomery Theater -5 pm 
or Thursday, September 5, Montgomery Theater -8 pm 

At least one officer from every student organization must attend one ofthe sessions. If you have any questions, please call the Student Activities Office at 1-7308. 
Ethnic: Monday, September 9, Foster Room-7 pm 
or Tuesday, September I 0, Foster Room-8 pm 
Honor & Music: Monday, September 9, Foster Room -8 pm 
or Tuesday, September I 0, Foster Room-7 pm 
RECORD POINTS PREVIOUS 
1-0 1544 1 2-0 1415 2 1-0 1412 3 2-0 1319 4 2-0 1289 5 2-0 1206 6 1-0 1154 9 2-0 1119 8 
• 1-0 960 10 1-0 856 7 2-0 847 12 2-0 743 13 2-0 672 22 2-0 664 15 2-0 649 16 2-0 614 17 1-0 533 20 1-1 491 21 1-0 457 14 1-0 323 19 1-0 319 1-0 309 24 1-0 227 0-1 214 11 0-1 189 25 
The Observer/Tom 

Social Service: Wednesday, September II, Foster Room -7 pm 
or Thursday, September 12, Montgomery Theater -8 pm 
Special Interest: Wednesday, September II, Foster Room-7 pm or Thursday, September 12, .. Montgomery Theater -8 pm 
The Observer· SPORTS 
Kinder 
continued from page 20 
ball, there must be a problem there. It's not enough to wonder about the weather; sometimes if you lose the ball once it goes to your head." 
Farmer started Thursday night's game against Vanderbilt at the tail­back position, losing a fumble on Notre Dame's fourth play from scrimmage. 
He was immediately supplanted in the line-up by sophomore Autry Denson, who started the game at split end. 
Edwards, usually a sure bet to hold on to the ball, also lost two fumbles for the Irish. However, the senior did score on a goal-line plunge in the fourth quarter and take in the two point conversion to bring the Irish back on top. 
"We were very disappointed as a team with the fumbling, but you have to look at the bottom line. We got the win," Kinder explained. 
It is undetermined as of yet who will start at tailback against Purdue. Kinder did indicate that there is a strong possibility that Denson may take the pole position, a possibility opened by solid perfor­mances from the Irish receiving corps against the Commodores. 
"When (fumbles) happen, it takes the air out of the offense," Kinder related. "If we can't keep the ball on the ground, it kills our momen­tum and our confidence." 
The question remains: can some­one adequately fill Kinder's place against Purdue? The Irish don't have much time to find the answer. 
TEAM 
1. Nebraska (57) 2. Tennessee (1) 
3. Florida St. (1) 4. Florida (3) 

5. 
Colorado 

6. 
Penn St. (1) 

7. 
Ohio St. 

8. 
Texas 

9. 
Michigan 


10. 
Notre Dame (1) 

11. 
Miami 

12. 
Alabama 

13. 
North Carolina 

14. 
Kansas St. 

15. 
Brigham Young 

16. 
Auburn 

17. 
Virginia 

18. 
Southern Cal 

19. 
Virginia Tech 

20. 
LSU 

21. 
Iowa 

22. 
Kansas 

23. 
Arizona St. 

24. 
Syracuse 

25. 
Texas A&M 


~-~­

---~ ----~--------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 9, 1996 
• MEN'S SOCCER 

t 
Despite frustrating result, Irish make great strides 
r By BRIAN REINTHALER "We played strong, well-orga­Since tie games in NCAA soc­low-up shot which deflected break."
I Sports Writer nized defense," explained cer are decided by two 15 into the cage. The Bocklage goal gave the Berticelli, "and did not give up minute halves, the first order of With score evened up at one, Blue and Gold momentum that A tie never fails to produce any good oppotunities. We business for the Irish was rest­just a few minutes after the carried through to the secondf mixed emotions. In collegiate stepped up the level of play and ing key players so that they young Irish had finally scored, half of overtime. In between
I 
soccer, it indicates that two I was very satisfied." would be fresh for the second one might have expected to see periods, coach Bericelli warned
I 
I teams battled for 120 minutes, The opportunities picked up a of the two periods. them concede and lose hope his players against watching I and neither came out victori­bit for both teams in the second "We had to rest (Chris) defeating the favored Red the scoreboard. I ous. half, and each just missed a Mathis and Gallo," said Storm. But the Irish perse­"We're not going to sit back," I For an underdog, it often goal on at least one occasion. Bericelli, "and we needed to get vered and continued to play Berticelli said. "We have to I evokes humble satisfaction. With about ten minutes re­throught the first overtime with a great deal of heart. play the game, not the clock." f For a favorite, empty consola­maining in regulation, the Irish (halO." With a little more than two The Irish did just that.
I 
tion. However, none of the set up a beautiful scoring Ironically, that first half minutes remaining in the first In addition to turning away
I 
above can completely describe chance. There was a penalty proved to be the most impor­overtime period, sophomore countless Storm attempts to in­
I 
the many feelings that resulted kick in the offensive zone which tant for Notre Dame. midfielder Ben Bocklage stole vade the zone, the offense man­
I 
from Notre Dame's 2-2 tie with was played into the corner to Less than one minute into the the ball on the right sideline ufactured a scoring oppor­
I 
Big East rival St. John's. junior forward Joe Gallo. Gallo period, freshman forward and beat his defender as he tunity. The chance was lost to
I 
! The Irish went into Saturday quickly centered the ball across Andrew Aris continued to dis­moved toward the center of the an offsides call which resulted night's contest against top 10 the face of the goal box to mid­play the effort that has made field. Then, from 30 yards out, from indecision on the part ofI St. John's with the memories of fielder Matt Johnson who him the leading Irish scorer Bocklage unloaded a cannon of the young Aris. a 6-0 drubbing at the hands of leaped and fired a header just early in the season. On a ball a shot that only lost speed upon Coach Berticelli tried to putt the Red Storm just a year ago. over the crossbar. played back toward the Red rippling the cords in the back of the problems in perspective. But this did not stop Mike The St. John's opportunity Storm sweeper, Aris outhustled the St. John's goal. "I thought the game was a
~­
Berticelli's squad from playing was thwarted by one part good the defender and slid to knock "The greatest thing was the tremendous positive. Our focus for the win. Rather, it may defense and one part luck. the ball past the opposing goal­tremendous amount of charac­in the game was tremendous, have given the team extra in­With one second remaining on keeper, giving Notre Dame a 1-ter that we showed," com­and it brought us closer and centive to spoil the plans of the the clock, a Red Storm attacker 0 lead. mented Berticelli. "We didn't tighter as a team." defending Big East Tournament fired a shot that was blocked in Four minutes later, Velho
1 
champions. the penalty box and caromed to made an excellent play to break 

I 
! 
"We did not come in with any intention other than winning this game," said Berticelli. 
From the outset, the Irish never appeared intimidated by the more experienced Storm. Even with the absence of start­ing marking back Alan Woods, who strained an MCL at the end of practice on Friday, the Blue and Gold defense refused to yield an inch to the heralded St. John's attack. They held the visiting squad to just two shots in the first half and despite fail­ing to register a shot of their own, created plenty of oppor­tunities which were either shot wide or broken up at the last second. 
the foot of the same player. Once again the player fired the ball toward the goal, this time beating goalie Greg Velho. However, the celebration after the goal was quickly haulted when it was determined that time had indeed expired before the final shot was taken. 
Thus, the Irish had accom­plished something that many believed they could not. They had not only played com­petitvely with one of the na­tion's finest soccer squads for a full 90 minutes, but they had shut that team out and forced an overtime that would afford them the chance to win the game outright. 
up a potentially dangerous situ­ation. A St. John's forward was advancing on a loose ball in the penalty box that rolling toward the goal. Velho got an early jump on the play and smoth­ered the ball just in time to deny the Storm attacker. 
However, just one minute later, St. John's finally broke through on Velho, who had played over 275 shutout min­utes up until that point. The visitors once again controlled the ball in the Irish zone and a midfielder directed an excellent shot on goal from less than 20 yards out. Velho sprang to his left for the save, but was only able to get one hand on the fol-



TREK -CANNONDALE -ROLLERBLADE 
Full Service Department Pick-up & Delivery (call for appointment) 



Executive Coordin 
Mon-Fri 10:00-7:00 
Saturday 10:00-5:00 

irt 
Marketing Club Meeting: Lower level COBA, Wednesday, September 11th at 7:00p.m. Free food! 
Call 1-9330. 
Women's Ultimate Frisbee: Have fun, stay in shape, and try a new sport. Every Monday and Thursday at 4:30p.m. at Stepan fields. New players welcome. Call Michelle at 4-2958 with questions. 

Pick up ap 
Troop ND: Organizational meeting TONIGHT at 
8:30 p.m. in Montgomery Theater, LaFortune. Check us out-male and female dancers always needed. Activities 
Cycling Club: Emancipate your mountain bike Applicatio from pavement prison-join the cycling club! Weekend off-road rides are planned. Call TJ at 243-9394 for more information. 


-~-· -~----·­

Monday, September 9, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN 

68 "Bonanza" role
42 Peninsula in 1967 fighting 69 Ancient letters 

10 "--reminds 
me ..." 
43lmpolite 70 Wriggly fish

14 Chess finale criticisms
15 Eagle's claw 44 Like Scrooge
16 Half nelson or 
DOWN 

full nelson, e.g. 46 Stubborn one 17 Set up camp 47 Hula-Hoops, 1 Collision 
19 Singer Redding once 2 Handy postal 50 Jiffy container
20 Biographee --B. Toklas 51 Rooster's 3 Garments 21 Grew suddenly 4Goal of a
partner 

53 Chinese Water Muslim tiles Torture Cell pilgrimage inventor 
23 Like terra-cotta 
28"--Miss s School org. Brooks" 56 Beginning 
8 Fink (on) 27 Boy 59 Venom, for one 
7 Pub potables 

30 Uno t due 60 ·-d'oeuvres 
&Hawaiian 31 Parties 62 Lose on 
entertainer 33 A-rated, as 
purpose 9 Traveling, as a 
musical group 10 Ten C-notes 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 Ministove 
comments 35 Where Tabriz is 38 Dilapidation &o 1968 election37 Gorillalike 54 Actress Hagen 

monogram 39 1976 best seller ssln song, one 81 Tic-tac-toe win "The-­that needs to 
83 "--to a Report" "git along" Nightingale" 40 Mythical beasts 57 "A thousand 84Jazzman and one--" Montgomery
41--facto 
42 Draft org. 45 Prefix with day Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
or year 
are available by touch-tone phone: 47 Obsess (on) 1-900-420-5656 (75rt per minute). 
48Twenty Annual subscriptions are available for the Questions best of Sunday crosswords from the last category 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Take full responsibility for your actions if you want others to respect you. An attempt to mix business with pleasure could tum out poorly. Keep your professional and personal life strictly separate! Career advancement will be rapid early in 1997. Romance may not be exhila· rating, but it will be deeply satisfy­ing. Widen your circle of friends when you get the chance. Someone from another country could become an important ally as next summer approaches. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Sylvia Miles, quarterback Joe Theismann, actor Hugh Grant, singer Otis Redding. 
ARIES (March 21·April 19): It is time to set some new goals where your career and romance are con· cerned. Family members come to your aid, offering financial assis· lance and emotional support. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Learn more about technology. Pur· chase a computer for business and family use. Someone's unpre· dictable behavior could have you worried. Your need for indepen· dence is real. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A business competition heats up. You win hands down! Form a partner­ship with someone who has a proven track record. Discuss personal mat­ters face-to-face with the people directly involved. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A strong role model is a source of inspi· ration. However; follow your own heart -not someone else's footsteps. A romantic commitment is favored. Refuse to let other people dictate your wedding or honeymoon plans. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Look 
for ways to improve your neighbor­
• OF INTEREST The Appalachia Seminar will be held during fall break, Oct. 20-25. The information meeting will be held at the esc today from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. 
Applications are avaliable now at the esc and are due Wednesday. 
Brazilian journalist Fabio Petrarohla will be speaking on 'Landless Workers in Brazil' on Tuesday at 12:30 p.m. in C·l03 at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The seminar is hosted by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame  
North  South  
BBQ Spareribs  Manicotti  
Rotini Pasta Primavera  Roast Turkey Breast  
Hunan Sweet & Sour  Kielbasa & Sauerkraut  
Chicken Tenders  
Saint Mary's  
Turkey Broccoli Divan  
Old Fashioned Beef Stew  
Red Beans and Rice  

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
hood. A community watch group may ease someone's fears. Thoughts of an old friend keep surfacing. Issue an invitation or make plans to visit this person. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Good news comes from people at a distance. A trip to an exotic locale sounds exciting. Contact a travel agent. Friends may seek your finan· cial advice. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): An event that you want to attend requires advance tickets or reservations. Check it out. Friends urge you to be less practical and more spontaneous. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Try not to be too judgmental if friends disappoint you. New agree­ments are possible if you connect with business people on a personal level. Romance enjoys beneficial influences this evening. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Concentrate on business negoti· ations early in the day. Yout timing is excellent! Others decide to join your team. An intellectual argument proves disarming. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): If possible, take your mate along on a business trip. Old friends in the same city will provide enter· tainment. Seniors play a major role in a communiry or church affair. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A romantic relationship comes to an end. A more suitable partner is wait­ing in the wings. Family and friends will applaud your choice! New mem· ories begin to crowd out the old ones. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Oth· ers may be busy shopping while you concentrate on work. Seek a better balance between your work and fami­ly duties. Office romances are exciting but unwise. Pmtect your career by act· ing professionally at all times. 

Do you have a disciplinary hearing with Residence Life? 
Stt..-\dent Government has trained and experienced staff members to assist )!01..-\ with )!Ot..-\r hearing with the Office of Residence Life. We are here to help yot..-\ before, dt..-\ring and after )!Ot..-\r disciplinary proceedings. 


IF YOU NEED ASSISTANCE CALL 631-4553 OR 631-7668 
Ryan Mcinerney jennifer Dovidio 
judicial Council President judicial Council Vice President 
liNt\llt\1" 01 Not Ill ILHII 'I II' III N I ~,II\ t II t<M IN I 

All information is strictly confidential 
-. 
..,I 
I 

.,.j 
1 


• I 
... 


~ --­

SPORTS 
pag~: 20 Monday, September 9, 1996 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Irish continue to make it look eas take two 
• FooTBALL • Vm.LEYBAU. 
Kinder to rest against Purdue 


By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Writer 
Some say the strength of a team lies in its abili­ty to overcome obstacles. The women's soccer team showed their strength yesterday. as they battled sickness and injuries to defeat the No. 13 Washington Huskies, 4-0. Some of the injuries that were sustained happened in the Friday night victory over the No. 14 Wisconsin Badgers, 3-1. 
A third of Notre Dame's starting lineup were injured or sick. Freshman Kara Brown sat out yesterday's contest due to an injury against Wisconsin. Brown got kicked in the head, and received stitches just above her eye. Due to her injury, sophomore Laura

I Vanderberg, started in her place. Senior mid­
''* 
I fielder Cindy Daws fell ill, but battled through it 
to command the Irish in the center.

t 
While fellow midfielder, sophomore Shannon Boxx, also played through the pain, due to an in­jury to her foot. Boxx had to play defense when freshman Jen Grubb went down in the second half. Grubb turned her ankle while trying to clear the ball. 
"It was a tough game for us," said head coach Chris Petrucelli. "Friday night took a lot out of 
us." 
Sophomore Monica Gerardo turned in a spec­tacular performance for the Irish with two goals in the second half. Her first goal came around twenty minutes into the half. She was fouled out­side the penalty box, giving the Irish a free kick. Sophomore Holly Manthei floated the ball into the goal area, where Gerardo then headed it in. 
Gerardo's second goal came just ten minutes later. Freshman Jenny Streiffer chipped the ball into the goal box, and Gerardo vollied it in for the 
see SOCCER I page 16 
By DAVE TREACY Saturday. A pulled quadriceps Associate Sports Editor muscle has sidelined the senior until the trip to Austin to face The Irish running game just the Texas Longhorns on 
got more interesting. September 21. 
Despite previous expectations ''I'm doing rehabilitation now to the contrary, tailback Randy and getting stronger," Kinder Kinder will not participate in said. "The bottom line is that the home opener against the I'd rather come back a little Purdue Boilermakers this later at 100 percent than push 

The Observer/Dave Murphy 
Senior tailback Randy Kinder will not be available when the Irish host 
Purdue on Saturday. The coaching staff does not want to take any 
chances with Kinder's pulled quadriceps muscle. 
vs. Purdue 
September 14, 12:30 p.m. 
SPoatt

I 
==t

I 
-vs. Michigan State 

t . 

September 12, 7:30p.m.
(•'
(..,­
-
vs. Valparaiso September 10,7:30 p.m. 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Sophomore Monica Gerardo and freshman Jenny Streiffer teamed up to help the Irish maintain their winning ways this week­end with a 4-0 victory over No. 13 ranked Washington and and a 3-1 triumph over No. 14 Wisconsin. Gerardo sprained her ankle in the second game just after breaking a 1-1 tie against the Huskies. 
myself and risk a worse injury." 
Head trainer Jim Russ and other physicians alerted Kinder of their decision this weekend. Kinder originally injured his right quadriceps muscle at Culver Military Academy two weeks before the start of the season. 
The muscle pull has forced both Kinder and the team to reevaluate the running game and objectives for the season. 

"I went into this year with several goals set out for my­self." Kinder recalled. "Obviously, one of them was to stay healthy for the whole sea­The Observer/Rob Finch 
Despite the solid play of middle blocker Jennifer Rouse (left) and out­
son. It is very hard for me to 

side hitter Angie Harris, the Irish were unable to overcome Louisville.
watch the game and not be able to contribute." Kinder's unavailability also brings about concerns for the 

Notre Dame fails to 
coaching staff. Six total fum­bl!JS, including four lost balls, produce many question marks 

enjoy home cooking 
to the surface about who 
should handle ball-carrying 
By)OECAVATO
duties. Although Kinder will 
Sports Writer 
likely jump back into the start­
ing role he claimed before the season, determining the player who will start against Purdue is still a major issue to address. 
"Robert (Farmer) and Marc (Edwards) just had bad games," Kinder assessed. "They are both dependable with the ball. But when two players drop the 
see KINDER I page 17 

at Penn State 
@) September 13, 8:30p.m. aJ • 
at Ohio State Friday, September 13
~ ••'-= riJ 
• 

~ 
. Volleyball at North Park September 10, 7:00 p.m. 
= 

In this still very young sea­son, the Notre Dame women's volleyball team has already learned many lessons. This weekend the Irish learned a lit­tle more about themselves, go­ing 2-1 in the Big Four Classic at the Joyce Center. 
After dropping a tough match to No. 2 ranked Stanford on Wednesday. the No. 19 team in 
Men's soccer squad settles for tie 
see page 18 

Sampras, Graf win at U.S. Open 
see page 13 
the nation, the Louisville Cardinals, handed the Irish a very discouraging loss by the final of 12-15, 5-15, 15-13, 15­7, 15-12. The grueling five game match took two hours and twenty minutes to play in­cluding the pivotal third game which lasted 45 minutes. The heartbreaking loss broke the team's winning streak in the Big Four Classic at eight 

see IRISH I page 17 








