
Tuesday, December 10, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 67 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPus liFE CouNCIL 
Kigar: Binge drinking at ND above national norm 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Binge drinking on college campuses is reaching epidemic proportions on a national level and Notre Dame is above the national average, according to Gina Kigar, coordinator of the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education, who spoke to the Campus Life Council yester­day. 
"You would be shocked at some of the sto­ries I have heard in working with students sent to my office because of different discipli­nary and drinking problems," Kigar said. 
She went on to explain to the CLC that all drinking was not bad and that converting to a dry campus would not be the answer. 
"We have to alter our perception on abusive drinking," she said. "But anything that we do has to come from the students. They have to enforce the rules themselves, much as is hap­pening with Sarin Ilall's 'no tolerance' policy. We have to get socialization of responsible drinking through other ways than medicating !with continued regulation]." 
When asked whether the University should promote responsible drinking or simply pro­hibit drinking, Kigar indicated that the best policy would consist of a combination of both. "There is a fine line between what to condone and what not to condone," she said. "We have to promote an· acceptable attitude towards alcohol for those who choose to drink. However, we have to also empower students who choose not to drink at all." 
"We have an awful lot of gray area in our policies," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent of residence life. "We expect a lot of model behavior in regard to alcohol and it is clear that we are not getting that modeling of behavior. Anecdotally, however, behaviors towards drinking are far different than 12 years ago, [when I was a student at Notre Dame]." 
Kigar cited two recent surveys on binge drinking, including the one conducted by Henry Wexler from Harvard University, as evidence that binge drinking is a problem on college campuses. "According to the Wexler survey, about 45 percent of students under the age of 21 have a problem with binge drinking. However, the percentage for those aged 21 to 23 is over 48 percent," she said. 
Kigar explained that one of the main prob­lems that she encounters with her office is that students do not want to get their friends in trouble by informing on them when they drink excessively. "Confronting students is necessary. You don't want to lose your friends by telling on them, but you might lose them anyway if you let them drink," Kigar said. 
Another problem Kigar finds on the Notre Dame campus concerns different perceptions of what it means to be drunk. "There is a variability in definitions of drunkenness and 
see CLC/ page 4 

The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
Gina Kigar (far left), coordinator of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, 
spoke to the CLC yesterday about binge drinking on the Notre Dame campus. 

Support services offer counseling and hope 
Editor's 
severity of the 
note: This is 
crime. Rape 
the second in 
is everyone's 
a three part 
issue because 
series exam­
anyone can 
ining the be a victim. 
issue of rape Literature 
on the college distributed by 

The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
The Oak Room will be closed permanently this winter for South Dining Hall's renovation. 

SOH expansion still in planning 
Food service will increase 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
A retail area with a wood-burning oven and ice cream shop will replace the Oak Room. 
to meet influx ofstudents 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
Assistant News Editor 
In an effort to serve more students and deliver a larger variety of fresher foods, con­struction will begin on South Dining Hall next April. By combining food service areas, offering more meal choices, and adding a lounge area to the south side of the building, the dining hall will accommo­date up to 1,000 more stu­dents. 
According to Doug Marsh, project manager at facilities engineering, the present load­ing dock on the south side of the building will be replaced with a new one on the west side near Fisher Hall. An addition will be built on the south side of the building; and, finally, the inside of the hall will be gutted to make way for new cooking equip­ment and renovated space organization. 
"The whole project should take about a year and a half and increase the capacity of the hall," Marsh said. 
The new addition on the building's south side will include a retail sales area similar to the Oak Room as well as other facilities for stu­dents. The Oak Room will be permanently closed this win-
campus. 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Rape occurs when someone is forced to have sexual inter­course without his or her con­sent. Rape is not about sex. Sex becomes the weapon used in the violent crime that is motivated not by the victim's actions, but by the rapist's anger or need for power. Most victims know their attacker, but this in no way lessens the 
the Sex Offense Services gives this and other information about rape and sexual assaults. 
When it comes to sexual assault, women come to mind, said Kendra Hensch, Sex Offense Services (SOS) advo­cate and co-coordinator of "No Means No." While women tend to make up a large percentile of the victims, sexual assault is a crime that can happen to anyone, she added. 
see RAPE/ page 4 

Have you been good? 
ter. 

"In the past months, we have decided that the new retail area will include a wood-burning pizza oven, similar to the California Pizza Kitchen restaurant, an ice cream shop, and a smaller a Ia carte section," Marsh said. 
It will resemble a lounge, with up to 80 sofas and soft chairs, and will have the potential for a large screen TV as well as a small stage. Computer terminals with Internet access may also be added for casual "net-surf­ing." 
see SDH/ page 4 

-----~ 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, December 10, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN The unique gifts of Christmas As most anyone can tell "":"'~~~~~~~ from looking at the glori­ous winter wonderland which we have been blessed with. the Christmas season is upon us. For the next few weeks. the media will be pumping you full of holi­day spirit. It will be Margee Husemann filled with artides about Associate Viewpoint gross consumerism, glut-Editor tony, service to the poor, bowl games, drinking and driving, what to give as gifts, what not to give as gifts, Christmas spe­cials, the true meaning of Christmas, what to wear, what to say, Santa Claus, reindeer, Jesus, Mary, Joseph, shepherds, angels, kings, stars, pine trees, red ribbons, wreaths, holly, snow, snowmen, mangers, and seasonal depression disorder. I feel sick just thinking about it. Here on campus we all advertise our Christianity. In the true spirit of Christmas, we slaughter pine trees from the golf course, wrap them up with lire under glass, deck them with shiny baubles and flame-retardant tinsel, and then post them over the doors to our dorms. We flock to the bookstore to buy out the collec­tor's edition ceramic Nativity sets which fea­tures Jesus swaddled in "The Shirt '96" and Knute, Ara, and Lou as the three kings. We lind table tents on our dining hall tables adver­tising "Jesus is the reason for the season", as if we needed that reminder at "Christ" -mas. Finals arc never a good way to begin the holi­day season. It's really hard to enjoy those glori­ous Christmas specials on our favorite sitcoms when group projects, take home tests, and proofs stand in the way of break. In addition to this, it's difficult to get in that generous holiday mood if your future rests on your ability to remember what William was wearing on that fateful day in 1066. Heading home for the holidays, we will all pass through towns with all of their street lamps decorated with shiny candy canes, snow­men, and Santa Clauses. We'll see houses with llo llo llo scrawled in golden lights like an advertisement or decked with more wreaths than there are trees in all of Gary. Stores everywhere will have holiday sales and sell all the great holiday gear ­from boxer shorts that sing "Silent Night" and bras with flashing lights to socks with silver reindeer and ties with mov­ing ice skaters. Once we arrive home, we'll embrace our par­ents and thank God for the safe ride home. At night, we'll give thanks for the sixty channels of cable television and all of those useful tips we picked up on the I lome and Garden Network. After baking twelve dozen cookies, we'll all complain about the amount of weight we gain over the holidays. On Christmas Eve the whole family will gath­er for a feast and then go to midnight mass. The next day we'll get up late and spend two hours unwrapping gifts that took us all live hours to lind and another three hours to wrap. The rest of the day will be spent together laugh­ing and snacking on last night's left-overs and all of the cookies we baked. Christmas is a time for joy. It is a time to look at oursel>~es and laugh. We have all be unique­ly blessed with the gift of Christ. Each gift we give, whether it is a card or a book or a dia­mond solitaire necklace from Kay Jewelers, is recognition of how someone shown us the mira­cle of Christ in our lives. Let's face it, even if it is only somewhat tacitly, we all know the rea­son for the season, but it is more important to understand what the universal meaning of Christmas is. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.  • WORLD AT A GLANCE Oregon mudslides claim homes, destroy highways MYHTLE CHEEK, Ore. U.S. 199, the main route between Mudslides shoved mobile homes CANADA -~• Grants Pass and Brookings, was from their foundations, and flooding -~~'·"·'~*"•;1PO(m dosed by fallen boulders, and other and slides cut off many highways to roads were closed by mudslides and the southern Oregon coast today. high water. A highway betweenWASH. ' \ "One really good gully-washer is '-< Heedsport and Interstate 5 was down what it amounts to," said Josephine \_ to one lane today; it was closed in County"emergency services coordina­November by slides that killed four ~ tor Bob Grist. ,_..;..,........., ____ ..---··­····-··\.. people. "If you've got anything in there, it More heavy rain with a potentialOSalem /will be clear down to the river by for causing mudslides and floodingOREGON )IDAHOnow. was expected farther south along the~-----''"' .Rainfall eased today in parts of coast in Southern California, and a Oregon, and most rivers were holding winter storm warning was posted for or dropping slightly. More than 2 California's Sierra Nevada. inches of rain had fallen in a 24-hour The weather service said satellite period ending Sunday in western photos indicate the storm had the Oregon, and 3 inches fell along much CALIF. NEVADA potential to pour up to 10 inches of of the coast. AP/Carl Fox rain overnight on the mountains of "We've got water going just about Santa Barbara and Ventura counties everywhere," Grist said. "It's just wet out there and northwest of Los Angeles. the ground is like one of those wet sponges that just South of Myrtle Creek, five mobile homes were can't take any more water." shoved from their foundations by a mudslide Sunday, As of midnight, Portland had 54.27 inches of rain so said Douglas County sheriff's Lt. Hobert Urban. One far this year, the National Weather Service said today. resident was trapped for an hour before being rescued. Normal for the full 12 months is only 36.3 Damage to the five homes was severe, and there was a inches.Getting to the southern Oregon coast was diffi­threat of more mudslides in the area, said State Police cult with so many roads closed. Sgt. Tom Welch. Yeltsin retreats to recuperate Debate examines theory on hand guns MOSCOW WASIIINGTON President Boris Yeltsin moved to his A researcher who contends that concealed-handgun hunting lodge northwest of Moscow on laws deter violent crime defended his study Monday Monday and will stay at least a week against charges that it was flawed. The recent study by to finish recuperating from quintuple professor John Lott and a graduate student at the heart bypass surgery, his spokesman University of Chicago Law School asserted that legally said.· Yeltsin also won't resume his concealed weapons could have prevented 1,570 murders regular meetings with Prime Minister and 4,177 rapes in 1992 alone. But Georgetown Viktor Chernomyrdin until he returns University professor Jens Ludwig said at a debate, "There to the Kremlin, press secretary Sergei is no credible evidence to support the idea that permissive Yastrzhembsky was quoted by the ITAH-Tass news concealed-carry laws reduce violent crime." The debate agency as saying. Yeltsin left his country home outside was sponsored by the Center to Prevent Handgun Moscow, flying by helicopter to Rus, a presidential hunt­Violence, which advocates gun control. Ludwig noted that ing lodge near Zavidovo, 60 miles northwest of Moscow. the study showed no appreciable difference between the Ever restless, Yeltsin has been in two hospitals, a gov­rate of adults and juveniles slain. He said adults should ernment health resort and his country house since his have enjoyed greater protection under Lott's theory Nov. 5 operation. The 65-year-old president is fond of because juveniles don't qualify for concealed weapons Rus, also a favorite spot of many of his predecessors. permits. Lott's study, which examined statistics from all German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, who visited Yeltsin U.S. counties between 1977 and 1992, also found that the there in September, is expected to return Jan. 4. laws did not increase accidental deaths. 'Valiant' wrestler dons Santa suit Electronic license deters drunk driving FRANKLIN, Ind. WASHINGTON He's taken on Hulk Hogan, Dick the Bruiser and Andre Instead of putting a key into the car's ignition, how the Giant. But it's the little kids at Christmas who have about just using your drivers' license instead? Traffic knocked out former professional wrestler John Hill. "I safety officials are looking at electronic drivers' licenses can't describe it; you just see the magic in kids' eyes," as they try to lind new ways to put the brakes on chronic said llill, formerly known as "Gentleman Jerry Valiant" drunken drivers-those who can't or won't change their and now a shopping-mall Santa Claus. "I've seen the potentially deadly behavior. Other prevention methods difference between the violent part of life and the softest discussed at a conference Monday include house arrest part of life." Hill, 54, doesn't have any problem impress­for those convicted of driving while intoxicated and ing kids at Greenwood Park Mall south of Indianapolis. devices in the car that require drivers to pass a breath He's 6-foot-3 and 280 pounds, with a deep yet calming test. "While millions of people in this country react posi­voice and baby-blue eyes that resemble St. Nicholas him­tively to society's anti-drunk driving message, our roads self. He spent about 25 years throwing opponents arc still jeopardized by chronic drunk drivers who refuse around the ring, including 10 seasons up until 1989 in to get the message," Terrance Schiavone, president of ~he World Wrestling Federation. He retired from the ring the National Commission Against Drunk Driving, said at 111 1995 and started Hill Landscaping. He and his wife, the conference. Drunken driving fatalities increased last Caroline, have a son, Jonathan, 18. Former manager year for the first time since 1986, according to the group Scott Homer said Hill played the part of a wild man but Mothers Against Drunk Driving. About 41 percent of all stayed away from wild lifestyle other wrestlers sa:vored. fatal car accidents are alcohol-related. The fourth annu­"lie was always a family man. lie just enjoyed al meeting was jointly sponsored by The Century Council, wrestling," Homer said. On one recent morning, he a Los Angeles-based nonprofit group. It is funded by the climbed down from his Santa chair to squat down to eye liquor industry and dedicated to reducing drunken dri­level with three disabled children in wheelchairs. ving and underage drinking.  
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Dec. 10. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. L1/'---~u Tuesday ~ 47 40 Wednesday~ 47 40 I Thursd~y ~ 45 31 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News Production  
Kelly Brooks Chris Uhart  Friday) ~ 44A 27  
Saskia Sidenfaden Jackie Moser  COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc.  
Sports Accent Thomas Schlidt Melanie Waters Lab Tech Graphics  Pressure ~Saturd~y ~~~ 34 H L B ESIITIJ 0 ~8 a L.J.U21 HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY ::~ }'· 'J.........,.....,.,.!........"',J .. V~~/ltdPreu  
Joe Stark Peter Cilella  Atlanta 66 47 Fairbanks 3 -10 New York 46 37  
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday  Boston 42 33 Honolulu 79 66 Philadelphia 53 J4 8,~,~4.8~ {) ~ u Chicago 41 35 Los Angeles 63 55 Phoenix 67 53  
except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of  Showers T-storms Ram Fl~r;ies S~o·; Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 58 35 Miami 75 58 St. Louis 57 51  
rhc Associated Press. All reproduction righrs arc reserved.  Vta Assocuued Press GraphiCsNet Denver 54 30 New Orleans 77 57 Seattle 45 40  


Tuesday, December I 0, 1996 The Observer ·CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Apartments available for your selection. 

• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 


Lentych steps down fro01 events co-chair 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
Before the Saint Mary's Student Activities Board Christmas celebration, tradi­tional events co-chair Jessi Lentych announced her resig­nation, effective at the begin­ning of second semester. 
The emotional Lentych cited conflict with academics as the reason for her step down. "I still really wish to be involved; I just can't do it on the level that I have been," Lentych said. 
''I'll need you as a committee member, at the very least," said Lentych's co-chair Jen Ligda to her former partner. 
Ligda, in cooperation with coordinator Lori McKeough, will begin the search for a new traditional events co-chair as soon as possible. 
The committee's responsibili­ties include the planning and execution of annual events, such as holiday festivities and SMC Tostal. 
Announcing the 1997-98 National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of 
world outside of Canada and western Europe. Applicable most foreign study abroad programs. Preference given to ldLJLJIH-dlltS proposing to study business, economics, history, ternational affairs, political and policy sciences, applied sci­engineering, mathematics and computer science. Areas secondary interest to NSEP include: law, medicine/health and other social sciences. 
Scholarships available for summer, one semester, or full year programs. Recipients of an NSEP Undergraduate Scholarship must agree to work in a national security position or in higher education upon graduation for a period equal to the 
duration of the scholarship. For more information stop by I 02-B O'Shaughnessy Hall or call 631-7531. 
Some employers promise you theworld. We offer you achance to make the worldbetter. 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
Lentych's resignation, although unexpected, shouldn't effect the board's overall efforts. SAB operated under two different advisors for much of the first semester and has been functioning without an advisor for the past few weeks. 
"This year's student govern­ment is very, very stable," said director of student activities Georgeanna Rosenbush. 
"It just keeps getting better, year after year. Past students have done a great job of men­toring for the younger ones. Across the board, SGA (Student Government Association) is running really smoothly," Rosenbush added. 
Stability withstanding, the board already has a tall lineup of events scheduled for the sec­ond semester. With the addi­tion of a new board member and advisor, the Student Activities Board should be revi­talized. 
The evening was designed to be a reward for the board's hard work this year. 


TLT COLT plans technology 
Task force to update networks 
By SARAH CORKREAN News Writer 
As the closing of the century fast approaches, Saint Mary's is in the planning stages of implementing a campus-wide information technology net­work to lead the College into the 21st century. 
Faculty, administration, and staff gathered at a luncheon yesterday to learn more about new developments in Saint Mary's fnformation technology and connections to other infor­mation sites. 
Based on the theme of build­ing a "collaboratory" at Saint Mary's, the Teaching, Learning and Technology Community Leadership Team (TLT COLT) wants to build a support sys­tem of volunteer task forces comprising teachers and stu­dents to develop the informa­tion technology campaign. 
Project co-directors George Rosenbush and Patrick White lead the task force teams cate­gorized as: Off-Campus Access, Faculty Development, Networking on Campus, Communications with the Larger College Community, and Training in New 

Students looking r the best deal on new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
Bring this ad in and receive 
$1000ff 

Weare now taking applications for next r! 
• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Central air 


• 
Swimming pool/Spa 


Technologies within the College Community. 
Through the COLT program, students and faculty work together to improve the learn­ing communities of the college. The COLT will focus on new opportunities for learning pro­vided by the campus network. · 
Concerned with issues of establishing intercollegiate electronic connections, Saint Mary's director of information technology Joel Cooper wants to make .Jlectronic access available to students of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
"I can't believe it is so diffi­cult for the two schools which have co-enrolled students who can!t go into the computer sys­tem at the other campus across the street," Cooper said. 
Cooper, former director of technology at Notre Dame, feels that Saint Mary's infor­mation technology has to make a commitment as a college community to work on the pro­gram together. 
Last summer, the Board of Trustees approved the Information Campaign with the first step of distributing more desktop systems around campus. 
Cooper also voiced concern over providing access to the growing population of off-cam­pus students, currently 10 per­cent. "With more students moving off-campus each year. it is our duty to deliver to their needs as a learning institu­tion," Cooper said. 
The goal of the committee is to connect all building on cam­pus, classrooms and offices, beginning with academic areas first. 
The Information Technology COLT is working to develop a collaborative leadership framework to support the cre­ative potential offered by infor­mation technology to Saint Mary's. 
Instrumental in implement­ing the plan, assistant director for computer services Dan Mandell explained the team is "exploring the suitability of collaborative learning environ­ments for 21st century stu­dents." 
"There is a need to develop innovative methods of support­ing a new environment where faculty and students will be teaching and learning together about information technology," Mandell said. 
Although the idea for the TLT COLT originally grew out of a support "crisis," it is an attempt to develop a more col­laborative model for students, respecting the unique contri­butions of every group on cam­pus. 
• 
Tennis, volleyball & basketball courts 

• 
24 hour laundry 

• 
Shuttle bus 


• 
Flexible lease plans 


For more information call272-1441 
Some apartments still available for January occupancy. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 10, 1996 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
binge drinking," Kigar said. "Clinically, however, among the list of symptoms of drunkenness are slurred speech, euphoria and slowed down body functions. Binge drinking is characterized by Wexler as five or more drinks in a row, regardless of time frame, for a man and four or more drinks in a row for a woman." 
Following Kigar's presentation, the CLC moved on to address res­olutions passed by the Student Senate earlier this week concern­ing the content and revision process of the student rules and regulations handbook, du Lac. 
A good portion of the debate around the resolutions centered on how and when the CLC would handle the resolutions. Bill Kirk suggested that the CLC invite members of the Ol1ice of Student Affairs to address the assembly. "I have been reviled and condemned by just about every campus body this semester without actually being asked to come in and con­verse with them about the situa­tion," Kirk said. 'This issue falls under my oflice, and I would like a chance to get the people who know about it in here to address this body." 
Many members expressed eon­cern over the amount of time that would be spent considering each of the three resolutions in differ­ent meetings. Concern that all voting members of the CLC be informed about the issue prompt­ed the council to hold the debate until the first meeting of next semester. 
In the meantime, Kirk volun­teered to supply any documented information to all members of the CLC. 
Rape 

continued from page 1 
The definition of sexual assault is when a person is forced or intimidated into sexual contact without giving his or her con­sent, according to SOS. Statistics say one in every four women will be assaulted in her lifetime, while for men, the statistics are one in every six. 
"After working with victims at the hospital, I've found that rape is not just about a guy being turned on by a mini-skirt. It is about power and control over the victim," Hensch said. 
The stereotypes that revolve around sexual assault are many, she added, the number one myth being that the assault is the victim's fault. 
For women it is not uncommon to hear that "she was asking for it because of the way that she was dressed." In reality, the way that she was dressed, how she was behaving, or whether or not she consumed any alcoholic beverages does not give anyone the right to take advantage of the situation, Hensch explained. 
The popular belief that sexual assault does not happen to men is just one of the many myths regarding this sensitive subject. 
SOS is the rape and sexual abuse crisis center for St. Joseph County. Extensively trained advocates and staff provide emo­tional support and medical and legal information for victims of sexual assault and their families through phone calls and personal contact at local hospitals. 
These confidential services are provided to everyone 24 hours a day. Clinical social workers are also on staff to pro­vide short-and long-term therapy for women, men, teenagers, and children. · 
"I feel that by volunteering at SOS I am making a difference and creating awareness and prevention, while providing help to those who have experienced sexual assault," said Angie Kelver, SOS advocate and coordinator of "Subject:Sexual Abuse." 
Advocates at SOS volunteer six hours of their time per week and SOS survives solely on their help. SOS is funded by grants and donations and has a 24-hour hotline number to serve the victims better. 
SOS recognizes sexual abuse as an issue for all people in St. Joseph County. Advocates and staff attempt to heighten awareness of the problem of rape and sexual abuse in the community. 
Volunteers educate children, teachers, and parents about sexual abuse prevention through programs presented in area schools, pre-school through high school. Support for victims and informational programs are provided on college campus­es and throughout the community and are offered free of charge. The hotline number is 289-HELP. 
SDH 

continued from page 1 
"The area will be more aes­thetically pleasing and will be targeted to mostly undergrad­uates because of its location in the midst of dorms, although the public will also be invited in," Dave Prentkowski, direc­tor of food services, said. 
The area will also have a cash-sale only coffee bar, juice bar, and wrapped sandwich stand. 
The addition will be con­structed in a brick and win­dow architectural style com­patible with the rest of the building. 
The final phase of construc­tion will include interior reno­vation. The two serving areas on the east and west sides of the building will be combined with the space presently allot­ted for the Oak Room to allow for a "market style food court." 
According to Prentkowski, most food will be prepared on the spot and new food choices will include freshly carved rotisserie meats, vegetable bars, a stir-fry area, a broiler, pizza and pasta bars, a deli, a Southwestern grill, and new dessert areas. 
"It will resemble North Dining Jlall, but it will be a lot better than North because the food will be all together in a central area instead of spread out," Prentkowski said. 
Additional seating will be added to the dining space where cooking facilities cur­rently exist, allowing for the influx of students coming from West Quad. 

"Grab and Go" services will be moved to the lower level of the building for quicker ser­vice to students and less back­up. 
Due to the construction, the cooking facilities will be closed down for most of the spring 1998 semester. Though the dining rooms themselves will not be affected, temporary portable food lines will be used during that time. 
Prentkowski hopes that "stu­dents will understand that the changes are being made for their benefit and help us out as much as they can, possibly by eating at North some of the time." 
Now that preliminary plans have been set. bidding for con­tractors will begin soon and a company should be chosen in March. 


Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 2004 Ironwood Circle, Suite I Call234·0363 273·8986 (24 hours) 
BOTH LOCATIONS CONVENIENT TO CAMPUS 

§<fll,turJ<fll,y ooDece]_n.ber JL 41th
0 


Lafo1l."fune Bal~1l."oom 
8:00PM 
9:00 PM Frosty the Snowman 
9:30 PM The Grinch Who Stole Christmas 
10:00 PM Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer 

11:00 PM A Christmas Story 
tree -Admissie~n plus ... 
*hul chuculalc and cuukies* *suda and pupcurn* 


... take a break for a little Holiday Chctr! You h:1vc a\t week to slutly,... 

br~ughll~ v~u b~ Sludenl Aclivilie1 

Tuesday, December 10, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 5 


Milosevic must 'clear up' act 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associated Press Writer 
BRUSSELS, Belgium 

Threatening a new economic squeeze, Secretary of State Warren Christopher today urged Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic to accept oppo­sition election victories and open talks with his opponents. Christopher told reporters Milosevic should show the same kind of flexibility that led him last year to negotiate 


DOWN HILL 
$~U IT~U[f) 
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 13 SWISS VALLEY 
BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00PM 
COST:  $27.00  INCLUDES LIFT TICKET. RENTAL  
AND TRANSPORT  
$18.00  LIFT TICKET AND TRANSPORT ONLY  

RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 PM BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT .z?--~~ 
DEADLINE: DECEMBER JJ 
peace terms for Bosnia. 
"Milosevic's position at the present time is self-defeating and he should recognize the importance of accepting the election results," Christopher said. "Having a dialogue with the opposition is in his own interest." 
"We retain the option" to reimpose economic sanctions against Yugoslavia that were dropped in exchange for Milosevic's cooperation in forg­ing last year's Dayton peace accords, Christopher said. 
Other sanctions remain in force, including U.S. opposition to international bank loans for Serbia, freezing some assets and not sending an American ambassador to Belgrade. 
Christopher gave no sign at a news conference the Clinton administration would give its direct backing to any political rivals in an effort to bring down Milosevic, the target of sus­tained demonstrations in Belgrade. 

"What we are saying is that if he does not clear up his act he will be in a deeper hole," said a senior U.S. official who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
While the United States intends to be on friendly terms with Serbia, under Milosevic it is "an authoritarian, backward­looking country," the official said. In Washington, State Department spokesman Glyn Davies said the U.S. would con­tinue "turning up the flame" on Milosevic. 
"Clearly pressure works in Serbia, and we'll just have to keep the pressure on and see what we can accomplish," he said. 


Russian poll evidences end of a nuclear age 
ByGREGMYRE 
Associated Press Writer 
MOSCOW 

In the first referendum of its kind in Russia, voters handily turned down the government's bid to finish a partially con­structed nuclear power plant in their impoverished rural region. 
Results of the referendum, announced Monday, mean Russia's Atomic Energy Ministry will not be allowed to complete the project, which was halted after the 1986 nuclear catastrophe at Chernobyl in Ukraine. 
Residents in Kostroma, 250 miles northeast of Moscow, had feared a nuclear plant would drive away the tourists who steadily stream in to enjoy the region's clean lakes and wood­lands, said Karen Richardson of 
Happy Birthday Brian! 
LfWe, 
~, 

Z'ad, 7em 
eued ~wilt 
Celebrate the Holtz spirit.•. 
When Lou Holtz was 12 years old, he hoped to someday coach Notre Dame. No one believed him. After 11 unforgettable seasons at the Irish helm, his beliefs have impacted many, on and off the field. Lou Holtz has been a tireless believer in: 
•The University ofNotre Dame 
•Community Service 
•The Guests ofthe Center for the Homeless 
Join Lou Holtz in his efforts to help others believe in themselves by ordering the "Irish Impact III-Lou" poster in support ofthe Center for the Homeless. 
Russia's nuclear vote 
Voters rejected a plan to build a nuclear power plant in Kostroma. 
AP/Carl Fox 

Greenpeace International. 
The environmental organiza­tion had helped residents put the issue to a referendum, the first time Russians had the 
opportunity to vote  on  a  
nuclear issue.  
"Obviously,  we're  very  

pleased about this," Richardson said. "It shows that when peo­ple have a choice, they don't want nuclear power." 
More than 80 percent of vot­ers opposed the plant in Sunday's referendum, accord­ing to Russian news agencies. Final results were not avail­able. 
A statement from the atomic ministry on Monday said the Russian government had "no plans to resume the construc­tion of the Kostroma nuclear power plant ... either at present or in the foreseeable future." 

..------~------­
page 6 
The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, December I 0, 1996 


Snowstorm sabotages U.S. teachers earn low salaries 
By DEB RIECHMANN nization representing the States in both categories. The
Northeast powerlines 
Associated Press Writer 

wealthiest nations. average for all the countries was 

Work faster with it. Power Macintosh" 5400 120 MHz/16MB RAM/1.6GB/8X CD-ROM Simplifyyour life with it.15" buill-in disfJ/aylkevboard NOW$1499 Communicate to the world with it. Apple" Color StyleWriter· 2500 U/J to 720.d60 d/Ji NOW $240Have fun with it. Get $150 backwith it. Check out Apple's Holiday Savings. Right now Apple Computer is it, offering a$150 rebate when you purchase aMacintosh' personal computer and an Apple" printer. Fact is, your timing couldn't be better to get your Mac: amachine that features some of the Apple" StyleWriter· 1200 world's most innovative technology. And it's easier to use than anything 360x360 d/Ji 8/W you'll encounter in your class schedule. So get to your campus computerNOW$99 store and pick out your Mac. It'll help keep you ahead in your classes (or at least tied). And right now, you'll come out $150 ahead on the price.  
Notre Dame Computer Store  
Monday-Friday 8am-5pm Computer/Math Building, Room 112  Power Macintosh" 7200 120 MHzll6MB RAM/1.2GB/8X CD-ROWI5"" displayike)boanl Now $2,116  
http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndstore/  
While Supplies Last  

By RICHARD LORANT 
Associated Press Writer 
CIIEI.MSFORD. Mass. 

The first time a snowstorm made his lights flicker, Kevin O'Connell went out and bought his own gasoline-powered gen­erator. 
Then the lights went out all weekend and stayed out Monday. 
"My neighbors are down to 37 degrees in their houses. I'm up to 72," he said Monday. "I invited them to spend the night." 
Hundreds of thousands of New Englanders could use a neighbor like O'Connell. 
A snowstorm buried much of the Northeast under as much as 22 inches of heavy, wet snow on Saturday night and Sunday morning, knocking out electrical service to some 
• CORRECTION 
A photo that appeared on page Um~e of yesterday's The Observer was packaged with the wrong story. The photo depieted part of a holiday Field Day sponsored by Air Foree HOTC on Sunday. At the event, over 180 children in kindergarten through eighth grade from South Bend com­munity centers reeeived lunch. snaeks, and face paint­ing. 
The Observer regrets the error. 

New England storm causes outages 

WASHINGTON 
U.S. school teachers teach longer hours than most of their colleagues abroad. Their pay also ranks high worldwide but looks worse when teachers' incomes are compared with the pay of other jobs. 
Making the profession attrac­tive to newcomers is becoming increasingly important as the United States and other coun­tries anticipate a teacher short­age, said the study released Monday by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. U.S. teachers recruited in the baby-boom years are beginning to retire at the same time that enrollments are rising. 
"U.S. teachers teach long hours for low relative pay," says said Andreas Schleicher, princi­pal author of the study conduct­ed by OECD, a Paris-based orga­
sTRESS RELIEVEr Sunday December 15th 
Forget about finals . .. 

9pm -12 am LaFortune Ballroom 
professional masseuse* pizza*games* coloring*fingerpainting*chocolate* photobuttons with Santa* 
and more fun stuff!! it's free & it's stress-free & it's brought to you by... 



C:t!!:> 
The organization collected data on education in 30 coun­tries during 1993, 1994 and 1995. One section of the report focused on teachers in 18 coun­tries. The study said the start­ing salary was $22,753 for U.S. public elementary school teach­ers and $22,265 for middle school. Only Switzerland, Germany and Spain paid their teachers more than the United $18,702 for primary school and $19,685 for middle school. 
Yet, America's ranking falls when its starting teacher salaries are viewed in relation to the average income per person, which the study says reflects the economic status of the teaching profession. When viewed this way, starting salaries are the lowest in Norway, Sweden and the United States, the study said. 
(C)1996Apple Compuler. Inc. A1J rlgbls resern!d Apple, tbe A{J{IIe logo, Mac, Macintasb, Performa, Power Macintosh and Sty/eWriler are registered trademarks ofApple Compuler. Inc. Apple mail-In rebate offer validfrom Not.mzber 2, 1996, fhrotll/h january 19, 1997. while supplies last and subject /Q avai/abl/ily. 7b qual­ify for rebate, prin/l!r, computer and an Apple monitor (ifsold separalely) must be purchased on tbe same Invoice. Offer good on any Madnlosh desktop computer with any Apple printer. Void where prohibited by law. See participating reseller for further rules and details. A1J Madntosh computer.; are designed to be acceJSib/8 to Individuals wllb disabllily. 7b learn more (U.S. only), caJJ 800-600-7808 or 77Y800-755-0601. 
---~ ---~-~~-~---­
Tuesday, December 9, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 




NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
11 on the campus 11 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. Book Buyback. 
It Pays to Be Part of It. L~tRECYCLE 
\JWFORCASH
We buy books that can be reused here...or on other campuses. 
----~­
• 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, December 10, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 


NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 

News Editor ........................ Brad Prcndc:rgasr Advertising Manager ............................ EIIen Ryan Viewpoint Editor...................Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Managcr ....................... Tara Gricshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Carolinc Blum Controller .......................................... Tylcr Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is rbc: indepc:ndcnr newspaper published by the smdems of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and S.1inr Mary's College. It docs nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The new~ is reported as accurately and objc:cdvdy as possible. Unsigned c:di­
wrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Ediwr, News Editor, Viewpoim Ediwr, Accem Ediror, Photo Editor, Spons Ediror, and Saim Mary's Ediwr. Commenraries, letrers and Inside Columns present thC' views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the None Dame/Saim Mary's com­
muniry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief M.maging Editor/Vi('wpoim Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543  Sysrems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu  


• THE MIGHTY OAK 
Reflections on coming of age in the Ozarks 
like a stranger there, a small, insignifi­cant being among forces the power of which I cannot comprehend. 
The great tines of the Hockies, sharp and naked beneath a wide sky, inspire awe, maybe even fear. They arc young and elemental. and when I walk there, I feel ehallenged rather than eomfortable. I am unroofed of my usual covnr of trees and exposed to whatever might bn flung down l'rom the sky. And though I am inspired by their beauty, it is a "terrible beauty," as Yeats might say, and erecp­ing unease takes the place of familiarity within me. 
I would not deign to say that I under­stood the Hoekies as I do thn Ozarks. The mountains of my state havn their own character entirely unlike those of the west. The Ozarks have lost the inde­fatigable sharpnnss of mountains in their youth and attained the roundness and forgiving of ag(~. They arn eured, in a sense, as opposed to thn raw wostnrn mountains whosP brazen youthfulrwss can bn thrcatnning. 
Naturalist Scott Weidensaul speaks of the Appalachians, which he has lived in and studied for some time, as "the mountains of the heart." Weidensaul has an intimate knowledge ofthe eastern mountains; he understands them to a degree I one day hope to equal with my own understanding of the Ozarks. Maybe someday, I will stalk the Ozark woods and see a mouse chewing a shed antler. And I will know the species of the mouse, but also thn age of the mouse, and the age of the deer who dropped the antler, and perhaps some other even deeper thing which I could not hope to guess at now. 
And when and il' this does happen, I will truly be able to eall the ()zarks my "mountains of the heart." 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. /lis column appears every other Tuesday. 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nature is always hint­
ing at us. It hints over and over again. And sudden­ly we take the hint.' 
-Robert Frost 

I am l'rom St. Louis, Missouri, near the eonlluenee of the Missouri River and the Mississippi, in the eenter of our eountry. My home lies on the northern edge of tho Ozark Plateau, one of the oldest mountain ranges on earth and probably one of the least famous of Ameriean mountain ranges. It is a familiar coun-

Sean O'Connor 

try to me; I have walked its oak-hic:kory l'orests often sinec I was a young rhild and I miss them during long months spnnt away from home at Notre Dame. 
The Ozarks are a weathered domain long subject to the vagaries or time, the worn roots of once-lofty mountains. They arc deeply riven by the clear strnams that course swiftly through to nHwt the Missouri or Mississippi, veining the wooded hills. Dolomite and lime­stone bluffs soar above these Ozark streams, their craggy heights stubbled with twisted cedars and gnarled short­leal' pinos. Circling vultures like sen­tinels watch over these natural eastles of rock, pensively riding the thermals. 
When a canoeist floats alone on an Ozark stream, these birds draw the eye. They are eerie, silent companions to the angler and floater; almost always in flight, the vultures' base on the crown of the diff is an unseen world from the rivnr below. 
The ()zarks are a rough country in many places. with steep hollows and roeky slopns that are the nemesis of the weak-ankled man; but the highest mountain here would be a foothill in the 
• 
west. Though the Ozarks have their own localized precipitous heights, they are rounded as a whole. 
Even the name, Ozarks, is a corrup­tion of the French, aux arcs, referring to the domed shape of the hills. Many an Ozark mountain bears the name, "knob." Indeed, if' one climbs a high point in the hills and looks out, the country appears deceivingly gentle, but under the disguising canopy of leaves is a surprisingly rough terrain of rock­strewn, steep slopes. 
The swift, spring-l'ed Ozark rivers are choked with chert gravel washed down out of the hills during the early twenti­eth century. Massive logging there at the turn of the century decimated the hills' garb of' pine, exposing the chert­laden soil to rapid erosion. Chert gravel collcetcd in the stream channels and the pines did not grow back. In there stead, oaks and hickories sprang up beeause natural fires were suppressed. The pines cannot grow in the shade of the oaks, and now scattered pines arc the only reminder of the past character of the forest. The Ozark landseapc of today consists of shallow rivers braided with gravel bars and thick deciduous forest broken by isolated stands of' pines and rocky glades. 
It is a good country, solid; there is often rock underfoot and the sturdy trunk of an oak to lean against. When I walk among the Ozark woods, I l'eel eomfortable, familiar, with my sur­roundings. I believe I understand that country, if this can be said at my young age. I know the plants and animals. The feel of the rock and the texture of the soil is etched in my head. The smells of the woods, the consistency of the air, the quality of the light, the calls of the birds; all of these have beeome part of my life's experience. 
The aspect of the air changes with the season. The freshness of an Ozark spring, invigorating with its rain-washed air ripe with the smell of new growth, gives way to the fullness of June. In mid" summer, especially on the south and west slopes, a dry dust takes to the air, leaving a thin powder on leaves and a tang in the nostril. Autumn comes and the humidity falls; the air is once again 

'Jt is good country, solid; 
there is often rock under­foot and the sturdy trunk of an oak to lean against. When I walk among the Ozark woods, I feel comfortable, familiar, with my surround­ings. I believe I understand that country, if this can be said at my young age.' 
fresh as in spring, but the light is fil­tered, dear yet softer than it is bright. As the mountains gradually slide back into winter, it is as if the land feels a lin­gering nostalgia for the warmth of sum­mer. We treasure those days that are the most fleeting, the times of change, spring and fall. 
I notice these changes when they oecur, but I do not actively think about them. Because I have lived there all of my life, they have lost any intellectual prominenee among the events of my life. But if it is an unusual season, in terms of weather, for instance, that is when I actually appreciate the subtleties of the season and the local character of the place. 
Differences become apparent when one travels to a different area of the country. The Hocky Mountains of the American West are real mountains as opposed to the little Ozark "bumps," a westerner might say. When I go out west, the character and the feel of the mountains is entirely different. I feel 
000NESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
UNfOI<TUNtrTCJ:>; ITMJN'T~fX)VI3
I CALLfT"lH£ COTTAGe'? IT'LL 
. !FH&/JO&G,IWANT7VH~
BtfOR£ 6ATESUNVtlt.~H/§HOUSt3 
. HIM! ItUJWT7VHAVI3AN/iXlCR­
8C 10,00050. fl. 8/GGCR ANP 
IN TH&PRING. MYONl-YHOP/3 
IOR AR:TFeA7ZJRe!NPLAC£7HifT
f25 MIUION MOl?£ COSTL-Y 
15 HeU 6/V/3 H/5 GtJ~A
7HAN 8/U. GA'Tl39'PLACJ;.' 
P/ltLSMIJ~ JWYTJ.I!NGH£!760T/
LAK/5FFONT TOUR ... 



ACCe,NT 
Tuesday, December 10, 1996 page 9 
Dave's World... 
Dave Matthews Band rocl~s Notre Dame 
By DAN CICHALSKl the violin, Stefan Lessard on bass guitar, LeRoi Moore Assistant Accent Editor on R & B sax and a slew of other woodwinds, or Carter 
I
Beauford on the drums, many of the songs were eased t took two-and-a-half months, but the Dave into with special musical introductions. Matthews Band finally made it to the Joyce Center What also may have been surprising to those who Thursday night. And it was worth the wait for the caught the band during their summer tour was the crowd that shook the arena with increasing intensity rather mellow selection of songs chosen for the Joyce while the band went Center. While through its selection of there was a mix of songs. hard, guitar-dri-
When the lights dimmed ven dancing tunes and Matthews' shadow with quieter hal­could be seen walking lads, the set list onto the stage, the near-leaned towards capacity crowd sounded the more mellow like a sellout and stood compositions. intently, for the most Ironically, one of part, throughout the two-the more surpris­hour, twenty minute ing omissions was show. the low-key title 
The concert included track of "Crash." many of the band's recent But this did not works, including "Help seem to bother Myself," which has yet to the fans during be officially released but the show. With has probably already the first-recog­made its way onto several TheObserver/MikeRuma nized note of each 
bootlegs. "Crash," the Lead singer Dave Matthews didn't let a touch of laryngitis stop him last song came a most recent album from Thursday night as the Dave Matthews Band performed before a near-cheer of DMB, was featured. ascapacitycrowdattheJoyceCenter. appro v a I, music fans might expect in · whether it was a concert. But this band rarely presents the expected. the funky guitar lick on "Too Much" or the smooth 
Using their unique style and combination of jazz. transition from "#41" to "Say Goodbye," the seductive rhythm and blues and innovative new sounds, the drama about two people who become more than group presented even the biggest fans with a few sur-friends for one night. prises. The song selection may have been influenced by 
Dave Matthews gets creative with even his own Matthews' laryngitis, for which he apologized before work. Barely the third will concert song. Had goers hear he not a n y t h i n g brought his close to the vocal prob-album ver-!ems to the sion of a par-audience's ticular song. attention, The only one however, it that camn is unlikely close on that they Thursday was would have "So Much To noticed; or, Say," the if they had, op<)ning track that they on "Crash." would have W h et lw r i t c a r e d . w a s {Perhaps it Matthews w a s alone on his brought on 
acoustic gui-TheObserver/M,keRuma a little bit tar, Boyd . d . b f h b d' by his tour
Tinsley on Matthews jam~ with violinist Boyd Tinsley unng a so1o reak in one o t e an s many of South extended-vers1on songs. Bend's finest 
• WEB SITE OF THE WEEK 
By JASON HUGGINS that makes for fastarid easy l:naneiiver~ World Wide Web Correspondent ••. •. ..· , ,., .. ... 
I
ing.. . . . , ~.'•. >< .• .,,..While the opirtij)~S ~fyoiir. pee~s are n only two weeks, everyone will be all vyell and good, Itai~p helps to }(now neeing the snow and frozen tundra what the pros hav(} to say; 'fhe p{loplti of South Bend for three weeks of behind Skiing ··• ··.·. . ;t\'Iagazine homework-free bliss. For some of you. (www;skineLcoril(skih:tg/index.!ttinl) some of that bliss will include a few have tested much ofthe latest and days on the ski slopes. But how do you hcittest,equipment~andtM)'.reporftbeir< successfully avoid bad gear, bad snow, findings right here. Skiing Magazine and bad trails? Well. this week's list of exc:;els ln other ~re~s <;t,.~. vyelJ: thE) Web sites help you plan ahead, so that "Private·Lessons·~ section offers excel­once you're on the mountain, only a lent{and illus1ratl;l4) ap~cl;lJ~r ski.el'S gf double-diamond is cause for concern. all levels; "Our Favorite Resorts'i 
When you want to get the lowdown on enlightens us abd:t;tt ~The T~P 10. fot resorts and gear from people just like Families1' and '"fli~ To()JO f<it Partying yourseIf, go directly to GoSkil (singles),''and "Th(l Slqi~g ..199"li~ts thE) (www.goski.com). You will find reviews best instructors int~e cguntry. by!>tate; and recommendations-submitted by Ski and Skiing magazines have fellow skiers-for roughly 1,500 resorts joinedforces. torbrjng y!.>U SkiNet in 25 count,·ies, as well as an impres-(www.skinet.com), and the result is a sivc array of skiing equipment. The highly practical slt{l m.a.t Q~).$ts a ,widf:l insights and often blunt honesty of your ~net. Both the "Gear Guide" and "Resort peers will come in handy wh(}n you are Guide" warr.ant.e~plpratiop, a:o,d tM deciding where to ski and wliat tohuy. classified listings of skitown lodging If you have something to add. you are properties a~e p~t:ycularly,yalll;abl(.)~ urged to do so. GoSki! sports a sfu~rt You also will find an events calendar, attitude and a crisp, uncluttered design active forums on travel and gear, and a 
bars -BW3's, Bridget's -until 5 a.m. the night before.) The Dave Matthews Band pleased the varied crowd 

sixth graders to sixty-year­olds {count­ing the ush­ers)-from the moment they took the stage at 
8:40 p.m. with "Seek Up" to the end of the first set and " A n t s Marching," w h i c h received the loudest roar of the night. 
The audi­ence kept up the screaming 
The Observer/Mike Ruma and eVen 

began to Band member LeRoi Moore put on his own resemble one-man show during the performance, 
more of a

including solos on several varieties of saxo­
football 

phones and a flute. crowd while the band took a break, after which only Matthews was seen returning to the stage for the encore. Introducing a song which he said he does not get a chance to play .. too often because it is a "holiday song." Matthew explained "Christmas Song," commenting, "It's not about Santa Claus, it's about that other guy we think about at Christmastime. It's not about Santa, it's about the other guy." Then, as the lights above him changed to red and green, he added, "Don't clap. I get lost." The rest oT the band rejoined Matthews on stage for the second song of the encore and the final tune of the night, "Dancing Nancies," in which everyone came together brilliantly, allowing the music to take over the stage and the arena. Tinsley convulsed and jerked around his end of the stage with broken bow strings flying around his head. Those in the front rows may have even noticed some smoke coming from the strings of the violin. When it was all over, the Dave Matthews Band had presented their audience with fifteen songs in the 140­minute span (after eighty minutes they had barely made it through eight songs). Overall, it was a fine performance from the song selection, lighting effects, instrumental interludes and solos. The band clearly enjoyed the visit, and the crowd, being good hosts, received them well. As the crowd filed out following the show, they were clearly left with "So Much To Say." 
en; . . ·tlihr. ..··..•. ········•···
pen.com/aspenonline/J·. Jacksp:o,Hole; ...······.. ...• ··· ...·.•···•. 
· (www;_jack$(mhole.com/skVjh_ ·.· ski.:_re~ort/irldex.html) 
•.. Killington: 
Lake Tahoe: 
taboe.html}
van: ... 
,.,.' . . 
Snowboarding: .. 
··cnews:rec,sJding.snowboatd) TheMarketplace: · · 
(n~ws:rec.skiing,marketpl(lce) 
Alpine: 
(n,ews:rec.skiing~alpine) 

-~­
~-~--------....---------------------------~----~~~ ----·--­
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 10, 1996 
... • COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Big Ten approves post season basketball tournament 
Associated Press 
Veteran Iowa coach Tom Davis has always been a self-deseribed "quiet advocate" of a men's postseason basketball tournament in the Big Ten. 
"I always felt it was a chance to get your team ready for the (NCAA) tournament," Davis said Monday after conference presidents approved the Big Ten's first postseason men's basketball tournament. 
"The way I thought it was used in the Atlantic Coast Conference and the Big East was that, if you played well in the tournament and maybe you won it, it was a springboard for the NCAA's. Thern was momentum -you built momentum," Davis said 
"If you lost, if you played just OK or maybe you played poorly and lost, then you've got a second chance. Now you've got a second chance." 
Davis ercdits two of the league's newest 

.... eoaches, Wiseonsin 's Dick Bennett, and Illinois' Lon Krugm, for convincing most of their coun­terparts of the benefits of a tournament. It was an easy sell, if you listen to Kruger. "From a recruiting standpoint, it's good. From a linandal standpoint, it's good. Hegardlcss of where it is played, I think it will be a great event," hn said. Not everyone was in favor. Indiana and Michigan voted against the tournament. Earlier, Minnesota's Clem Haskins said he was also 
opposed, even though his school was for it Monday. 
Indiana coach Bob Knight has questioned the importance of the tournament, saying it detracts from the regular season. He declined comment Monday. 
"Those guys are certainly entitled to their opinion. They've earned that right as longtime, well-respected members of this league and I respect their position," Penn State coach Jerry Dunn said of Indiana and Michigan. 
Purdue coach Gene Keady said it's worth a try. "That time of the year, anything's good if you win and you're still alive," he said. 
Ohio State coach Randy Ayers was happy with the news, despite concerns about players miss­ing classes, especially around the end of winter quarter. 
"I like the fact that it's a chance once again to put your product before the public," Ayers said. "It is a chance to showcase your players and it's a good opportunity for teams on the bubble, to maybe get a victory or two and put them in the (NCAA) tournament." 
The conference tournament will be played a neutral site to be determined. Ohio State presi­dent E. Gordon Gee earlier said he'd like to see it played at campus venues. Nonetheless, he voted in favor. 
"I think it's in the best interest of Big Ten bas­ketball for us to have a tournament," he said, mentioning increased revenues and TV exposure as two of the biggest factors. 


Irish 
continued from page 16 
that has lead to bad decisions on the eourt. 
"(Wyche) has tremendous explosive­ness and speed, and what we want him to do is channel that speed and control it," MacLeod said. 
"Not necessarily go full out but to be under enough control to finish the play and make the hoop." 
Freshman Jimmy Dillon will lind his way into the game to spell Admore Whitn at point guard. 
Dillon provided the clear head against thn Providence press that MacLeod was looking for. 
"(Dillon's) had some good outings," the coach offered. "He's pitched the ball ahead, he's made some great passes, he'd driven the ball and kicked it to open people; he really gets rid of it quick." 
White's season-opening funk at the point does not concern MacLeod. White's shooting percentage has lagged thus far. but the coaeh believes that all it takes is one good outing to get the guard going. 
"(White) probably pressed early because he wanted to do so well so badly. He prt>bably put tons of pressure on himself and he's had some great shots that he normally does make but just hasn't made. He is just struggling, but he's going to break out of it and he's going to be line." MacLeod said. 
"He needs to settle down and start making a couple of jumpers, and when he does, it's like a golfer who starts hit­ting the ball well after hitting it badly for two or three weeks. He can score, and we're going to wait for him." 

The inside game may also see some attention against the Wildcats. 
Notre Dame has not scored consistent­ly in the post, and they will look to change that trend by getting the ball inside to get New Hampshire in foul trouble and earn some more free throw attempts. 
The front court has been bolstered thus far by the eombination of Derek Manner and David Lalazarian in the small-forward spot. 
The two have combined to collect a good portion of Notre Dame's offensive rebounds and each can put points on the board. 
"Some games I'm going to have to score more," Lalazarian said. "I just have to do my job when I get in there." 
HUSH NOTES 
Sophomore forward Gary Bell's progress from a badly sprained ankle is continuing to improve on a day to day basis. lie was on the floor for a limited time yesterday, but there is no definite time-table for his return. 
Keith Friel's infection eame after get­ting a splinter in his knee diving for a ball in practice. 
lie did not respond effectively to med­ication, and will be forced to sit out for the next two contests (New Hampshire and Kentucky). 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Michiana's largest night club and REGGAE D.J. FOR SALE: Exams stressing you out? newest restaurant is now seeking 234 0705 POOL TABLE-$300 OBO. Holiday anxiety? 
NOTICES ILOST & FOUND I 

competant. hard working individuals DP STAIRSTEPPER-$90. COUNSELJNE can help! 
to fill several positions within our 2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW BODY BY JAKE WITH VIDEO -Call Mon-Thurs. 4pm-12am '"30 SHOPPING DAYS LEFT! growing company. Positions now OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM-$50. to hear professionally taped NOW IS THE TIME TO GUARAN-LOST: SILVER RING WITH RED available are: Hostess, Banquet PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-CALL 272-3753 AFTER materials at 1-7793 TEE THE LOWEST RATES AND STONE. REWARD IF FOUND!!! and restaurant servers. bus per-6306 3:30 OR LV. MESSAGE See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone-BEST HOTELS FOR SPRING PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331. sons, Beer Tub and shot girls. All AND WILL CALL YOU BACK. book for a list of tapes. BREAK. LEISURE TOURS HAS positions are ideal for students. If HOUSE FOR RENT, TWO Sponsored by the UCC and Psych PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE, Found: 1 chain and charm interested, contact Heartland and BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. Moving Sale Club. CANCUN, JAMAICA AND FLORI-in Nieuwland Camp lab. The Old Chicago Steakhouse at NEWLY REMODLED-4/5 BED-86 white OLDS DELTA 88 DA. Identify and claim with Calvin 222 S. Michigan St. South Bend. ROOM, FULL BASEMENT. AVAIL-aut., 2d., 136000mi. LUCAS!! 800-838-8203 @4-1772 ABLE SUMMER/FALL 97'. $700 
ARE YOU LEAVING 2ND SEMES-INCLUDES APPLIANCES, MONI-TV, Toshiba. 1y., 14in. THE PERFECT NO CHRISTMAS SPRING BREAK Travel Free LOST: TEA AND DON'T KNOW WHAT TORED SECURITY SYSTEM. $125 GIFT? "A WELL BALANCED Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ 1 Tennis Bracelet TO DO WITH YOUR FURNITURE? Sony Stereo, exc. cond. MEAL," ALL THE BEST OF FOUR Cancun Jamaica Bahamas Shaped in X's and O's WE ARE MOVING OFF CAMPUS FOR RENT: GRANGER 3-4 BED-100W.amp, CD. tape FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCA-Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. Lost between the library and Lyon's AND MIGHT NEED IT! CALL 4-ROOM HOUSE! FULL BSMT, 2-separate/whole $200 (orig. $430) L YPSE. ON SALE AT HAMMES all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf & If found PLEASE,PLEASE,PLEASE 4843 CAR GARAGE $825. 51844 AND LAFORTUNE INFO DESK Sun (800)763-5606. call JAckie @ X2900 CHERYL DR. 272-6877 

PERSONAL
SEMESTER BREAK WORK FIN 360/361 HOTLINE
I
Spring Break Bahamas Party $10.25 to start We are here to help with questions Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All WANTED 1-5 week work program FOR SALE FAX IT FAST!!! and problems Meals. Free Parties, Taxes! Great FT/PT Flexible Schedule Sending & Receiving Call x1-8432 Day or Night
I 
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices May continue in summer BED, COUCH, & ANS MACH at Increase Soon-Save $50! spring-WANTED: MALE HOUSEMATE Scholarships awarded ASKING $125, $75, &$20 THE COPY SHOP PREGNANT? breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 FOR NEXT SEMESTER. SOUTH BEND (219)282-2357 2719387 LaFortune Student Center Consider the loving 
ACCOMMODATION 1 MILE FROM FORT WAYNE (219)471-6113 Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 option of Adoption. Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break CAMPUS. 631-5118 NORTH INDY (317)767-5416 1988 Subaru, air, auto, cassette. FAX IT FAST! !I Caring, devoted couple Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From SOUTH INDY (317)767-5416 4WD, excellent condition, $3200 wish to share our love, South Bend $419! Prices Increase MERRILLVILLE (219)769-2352 OBO, call (219) 232 1107 00000000000000000000000000000 laughs, and lives with an Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach MUNCIE (317)289-7345 Looking for a unique gift idea? infant. Call for profile Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price basic conversational English in Baby crib and high chair, almost Custom Color Copy Picture and more info: Andrea Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No new, call (219) 232 1107 Calendars are now available 111 and Lee: 1-800-213-3960. 1-800-678-6386 teaching certificate or European FOR RENT THE COPY SHOP in the Lafortune 
languages required. Inexpensive Student Center. Just bring in your 'Need a ride home to New York• Spring Break Panama City! Room & Board + other benefits. For WALK TO CAMPUS For christmas: PC COMPUTER. favorite pictures and create a mem-•tor X-Mas (Albany area)' Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best info. call: (206)971-3680 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES Full ethernet access, windows 95, arable calendar! !I Choose from Will help with driving & expenses. Hotel. Location, Price! 7 Nights ext.K55843 232-2595 microsoft word, super fast/quiet three formats: Can leave Dec. 20-22. $1291 Daytona-Best Location $139! printer. All for $490. Call and (1) 12 Picture Monthly Flip Call Steve@ 232-7324Hey Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring-Furnished room available for '97. check it out-no obligation. matt (2) 1 Picture Monthly Tear-Off breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-$300/mo. 5-min drive. VERY curreri@ 4-3210 (3) 1 Picture Full Year View. Gorgeous. 
Positions are now available at NICE! 00000000000000000000000000000 One more! One more! WORDS...TO GO Term Papers. National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife 232-7175. Bed -Queensize ortopedic premi-Love. Dissertations, Resumes, Free Pick-Preserves. Excellent benefits + um mattress set. Never used, stil in me 
Up and Delivery Available. bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. I am in desperate need of a package. Cost-550 RIDE NEEDED TO SOUTHERN Competitive Rates. 299-7224 N55849 subletter for spring semester! It's Sacrafice $175 219-67 4-2352 NY, N NJ OR AREA FOR CHRIST-
for a big apartment near campus. MAS -I HAVE A FINAL UNTIL We need Whitley and Greenwood! Hey! Want to wish your friends a Call Peter, 234-4779. GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT! NOON ON FRIDAY 12/20, AND I'm getting very-v<Jry upset! MERRY CHRISTMAS?! Place a ALASKA EMPLOYMENT· Name a star for someone special. MY WISDOM TEETH HAVE TO classified ad! Students Needed! Fishing Industry. CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS $33 Call (800)701-7201 Ext. 14 COME OUT ON S,.,TURDAY-Farmer Kelly wears hot overalls, Ads placed by Tuesday at 3 pm will Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per Two Bedroom Apartments available PLEASE HELP! THANK YOU but looks nice all dressed up too. appear in Wednesday's issue. month. Room and Board! tor immediate rental FOR SALE: WOODBRIDGE Call Brian 287-4876 TOMORROW IS THE LAST ISSUE Transportation! Male or Female. No 1 & 2 Bedroom Apartments 1-BEDROOM CONDO WITH CAR-Hey guys --Good luck on finals and OF THE OBSERVER FOR THE experience necessary. Call Available for Next School Year PORT $59,900 RODGER PENDL, FAT RADER AND THE BAD GUYS have a safe trip home. --C note SEMESTER. (206)971-3510 extA55848 Call 272-1441... C&E 272-6877 Wednesday, Dec. 11@ Bridget's 
---~----­
Tuesday, Decmber 10, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING 


Irish dominate ND Invitational 
-

Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS 

Eddie Robinson, college football's winningest coach, has been told by Grambling he must quit as coach, ESPN reported Monday. 
The cable network cited unidentified sources as saying Robinson, 77, must either resign or take a vice presi.:; dent's position at the school where he has been the head for 55 years. 
ESPN quoted Robinson's grandson, Air Force Capt. Mike Watkins, as saying his grandfather was refusing to 
resign. Watkins said uvJJH-Il)V» wants to coach one more for a "farewell tour." 
Grambling ended its season at 3-8 with a loss to Southern University in the annual Bayou Classic. 
Robinson has 405 more than any other · coach. 
"I'm going to quit where, to the do ltobirison said befo southern loss. "Lgo­doctor more than ""'""'"' know if I don't have else to do. You've got to up your own mind, and like to leave a good team behind." 
By BILL HART 
Spores Writer ­
The Notre Dame women's swimming team kept in stride last week, winning the Notre Dame Invitational over Connecticut and the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. 
Notre Dame met the Huskies earlier this year at Connecticut, where the Irish won most of the events and dominated most of the meet. However, it didn't mean that this invitational was a definite win. 
"We were pretty confident going into the meet because we won by a fair margin in the meet earlier," Courtney South commented, "but we knew that the Huskies had rested up over 


iT's ThERe---IN ThE BAcK OF YouR CLOSeT--_: AN ArTiCLe OF CLOthiNg YOu'LL nEvEr WEar. THE oNE gRAnDma GaVe YoU. THE oNE You PAck EVeRy YeaR FoR ScHooL But YOu dOn't KNo-w­WHy 
mJeWANTit! ~all of it all of it (De'll BE Around 
COLLECTING CLOTHES DONATIONS ON THURSDAY, DEC. 12TH. 
SO SACRIFICE A LITTLE FOR THOSE WHO NEED A LOTI!! 
ALL DONATIONS TO GO TO THE ST. VINCENT de PAUL SOCIETY OF S.B. 

Fri., 
in LLIIr&al "-~L.U-1. 
$3 ~C'JR~Is~-~ 
@the door........,....., 
the past week or so, and they were ready to swim." 
However, even the Huskies' rest failed to stall the Irish attack. From the first day of competition, the Irish immedi­ately took charge. South and Linda Gallo, a senior from New Jersey were high scorers on Thursday. Gallo, a senior, won first place in the 500 yard freestyle. South took second place in the 50 freestyle. 
The Irish won two relays as the team of Gallo, South, Laura Shepard and Karen Daylor took first in the 200 freestyle relay. South also took first place in the 400 medley relay, along with the freshman team of Allison Hollis, Liz Barger and Shannon Suddarth. In diving, freshman Gina Ketelhorn took first place in the three meter event. 
On the second day, the Irish started strong with the team of Hollis, Newell, South and Brittany Kline setting a meet record in the 200 medley relay with a time of 1 :45".25. It was one of two meet records set by the women in the second day as Erin Brooks set a record with a time of 57.82 seconds in the 100 backstroke. 
"I think that all our swim­mers really did well against the Huskies," Brooks remarked," and some of the freshmen real­ly stepped up." 
Hollis, Newell and South scored again in the relays, this time with Barger, as they won the 800 freestyle relay. 
Help came from a variety of sources as sophomore Anne Lacobucci won the 400 individ­ual medley. Barger won the 100 butterfly, with Newell plac­ing second. By the end of the second day, Notre Dame had increased their lead to almost 300 points over Connecticut. 
On Saturday, the final day of competition, Brooks set another meet record in the 200 back­stroke, with a time of 2:02.61. Gallo took first place in the 1650 freestyle, by far the longest race of the meet. Suddarth placed first in the 200 breaststroke and Ketelhohn took first place in the one meter diving event. 
By the end of the day, the Irish won with 1053.5 points. The Huskies came in second with 886.5 while Milwaukee trailed far behind with 24 points. 
Happy 50t Birthday, ne Seeley CND! 
~ee"?))e 
~~· ~· ieatp4, ;e~, flim, e~ euut 
fJevuf 

For the past 30 years, Holy Cross College has offered thousands ofstudents the chance for agreat education. But there's one thing we haven't been able to offer: a place to stay on campus. 
Now we can. Starting with the 1997-98 academicyear, Holy Cross will have alimited amount of residence hall space available. 
Atwo-year, transfer intent college with astrong liberal arts foundation, smallclasses and an intimate, personal setting, Holy Cross has helped put many students on the road to asuccessful college education. With our new resident facilities, we can serve our students even better. 
*
HOLY CROSS COLLEGE Office of Admissions PO. Box 308 Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 (219) 239-8400 Fax (219) 233-7427 E-Mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
Web Site: http.!lhome.naz>isoft.com!bo(ycross

·1996 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 10, 1996 
The Loss 
RenoIa 
continued from page 16 
tion." said Henola. 
She remained solid in front of a hometown crowd. Originally Henola hailed from nearby Los Gatos. On almost all of Carolina's 18 corner kicks, she soared above the rest of the pack to pull in the loose ball or punch out another offensive opportunity. One small point of confusion cost Henola and Notre Dame the game. 

UNC directed 18 shots in Henola's direction. She regis­tered a tournament high of seven saves. while she had reg­istered only eight in the past four contests. Others recog­nized her for her leadership and talent, by electing her to the All-Tournament Team. 
"I have had a great career," said !{(!nola. "I have helped build a program from not a whole lot and a program that is going to be around for years to come. That is what I have left on tlw ganw of college soccer. We didn't win today, but we did last year. I think that I .have left sonwthing along with Cindy (Daws) and the otlwr seniors on our team, that not many people in my elass around thn country can say they have. That is what I am proud of." 
She, along with Cindy Daws, watched the women's soccer program at Notre Dame rise from the unknown to one of the 
North Carolina midfielder Tiffany Roberts gets in front of Holly Manthei 

top programs in the nation. 
(above) for a header in the NCAA final. Irish forward Monica Gerardo Henola graduates with the most battles Tar Heel defender Nel Fettig for a header (right). Fettig was successful class ever in the his­named the tournament's defensive MVP. All-Tournament team mem­tory of the women's soccer pro­ber Jenny Streiffer is held by Roberts (below). Streiffer was also gram at Notre Dame, with a named a third team All-American over the weekend. 
record of 87-8-3. 

"I feel they outplayed us. Am I surprised, yeah. But how can you be surprised when UNC wins the title." 
-Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli 
..... 
II~, .~· 
~;;kf(4; 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 


ALL-TOURNAMENT 
Three Notre Dame players were named to the All­Tournament Team. They include freshman Jen Grubb, senior Jen Ronola, and fresh­man Jenny Stroiffcr. 
ALL·STAHS 
Seniors Jen Renola, Cindy Daws, and Amy VanLaecko were named to the west squad roster of the 1997 Umbro Select College All-Star Classic. 
ALL-AMERICANS 
Seniors Cindy Daws and Jen Renola were named to the first team All-Americans. Freshman Jen Grubb and junior Kate Sobrero made second team All-America. The Irish representatives on the third team induded fresh­ma·n ·Jenny Streiffer and junior Holly Manthei. 
FLYING WITH THE ENEMY 
On Thursday, the Irish shared their flight from Chicago to San Jose with their rivals, North Carolina. 
Insight 
continued from page 16 

about it. This space would have been filled with similar sentiments regardless of what happened against the Tar IIeels. 
This is not to say the loss was not a huge disappointment. When you blow out almost every team during the year and can't locate the net in the final, peo­plf! will ask what happened. 
That, as Petrucelli points out, demon­strates how much these seniors have accomplished. Two years ago, it was an achievement just to make the NCAA final. Instead of fielding questions like, "llow does it feel to be here?'' the Irish are now asked, "What was not feeling right?" when they lose. 
Haised expectations go hand-in-hand with building a program. Petrucelli is grateful to Renola, Daws, and Co. for choosing Notre Dame and establishing the foundation for women's soccer under the Golden Dome. Future classes may be more talented, but their decision to play soccer for the Irish has now become easy thanks to decisions made four years ago by those who now exit. 
By making those decisions, Petrucelli realizes they changed the course of col­legiate women's soccer history. Sure, it would have happened sometime. Not everybody can play for North Carolina. But the evolutionary steps did not have to be taken at Notre Dame. 
For that, Petrucelli will count his blessings. Life's funny like that. You're never exactly sure who will be bring joy into your life, but when you recognize those people, it becomes hard to part with them. 

It would explain why Petrucelli was so emotional at halftime of the national semifinal, knowing it could be the last time to be with a piece of his happiness. 
"The speech at halftime was about being able to be together again one more time," he said. 
The final get-together may not have gone according to plan, but Petrucelli was just glad Henola did not have to deliver her mini-retrospective until the last possible moment. And as she did, his eyes watered, understanding how much one of his favorite pupils had grown over four years and how much the program had grown with her. 
Petrucelli also understood how much he had grown with her. Grown to admire her and grown to treasure her. 
Now, he must grow to miss her and her classmates. 
It will take time, but Petrucelli knows their legacy will be present every time he steps onto Alumni Field and sees "1995 National Champions" adorning the scoreboard. 
Hours later that day, Petrucelli's eyes were still red as he tried to rub the sleep out of them before boarding the plane home. That's when he again looked at Renola from a distance and discussed how "she maximized her potential." 
And for that matter, the potential of Notre Dame women's soccer. This time, it was enough to make him smile. 

Tuesday, December I 0, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
"They came back like champions and that's what champions do."
The Comeback 
-Portland head coach Clive Charles 
Irish rally to reach final with three-goal second half outburst 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
SANTA CLARA 

The largest crowd ever to assemble for a collegiate women's soccer game stared in amazement as Notre Dame spotted Portland two first half goals and trailed at halftime of Friday night's national semifinal. The crowd was then also amazed as the Irish came back from a 2-0 deficit to stake a spot in the NCM finals, 3-2. 
"I have never been so emotional with my team than I was at half," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. He issued a challenge to the underclassmen to not let the seniors go out this way. 
The offensive streak began just over a minute into the second half. Sophomore Shannon Boxx took Petrucelli's challenge on her own shoulders. She soared above a large pack of Pilot defenders to head in the first comeback goal. 
Boxx chalked up her twelfth goal of the season. Getting the assist on Boxx's goal was junior I lolly Manthei. and that makes a total of 44. Her tenth assist broke Mia Hamm's record of nine assists in an NCAA tourna­ment. 
"There was a 15 minute spell in the second half when we just couldn't handle anything," said Pilot head coach Clive Charles. "They put us under a lot of pressure in the box. That first 15 minutes was the whole game­that's why they scored their goals. They came back like champions." 
At 54:44, senior Amy VanLaecke got the tying goal for the Irish. She knocked in her 19th goal of the season amidst confusion in the goal box. She was unsuccessful on her first attempt but nailed in her rebound over the Pilot defenders. 
Freshman Jon Grubb made a sliding pass to sophomore Monica Gerardo, who then turned and angled a shot past Pilot goalkeep­er Cheryl Loveless for the winning goal. It was Gerardo's fifth game-winning goal of the season, including two in NCAA tournament play. 
"I challenged our younger kids to win the game for those guys (the seniors)," said Petrucelli. "They stepped up. Look at Shannon Boxx in the second half and Monica Gerardo in the second half, those guys stepped up they made a difference." 
The contest on Friday was billed as the top 

Petrucelli inspires Irish with halftime speech 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Associate Sports Editor 

SANTA CLARA 
After Portland's Regina Holan launched her second goal high into the net Friday night, Notre Dame goalie Jen Renola dropped to her knees. 
offense against For the the nation's top first time defense. Pilot all year, freshman 
the Irish Loveless came 
were in a into the game as situation the nation's top where the goalie with a .29 possibility goals against of losing average. The had finally Irish scored 
become a three in one reality. night, which was N o t r e a shock because 
Dame had Portland had 
not trailed only given up at half­seven all season. 
time the Portland 
entire sea­received both son. goals through And as the effort of their 
Renola
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
fell, her
freshman Regina Petrucelli tries to rally his team from a two-goal deficit to Holan. This was beat Portland in the national semifinal. 
team's 
Pilots 3-2. 
"I still knew we could come back," Renola added. "That's why I was so upset at halftime because everyone looked like we had given up. I knew we could do it, but at that point, it was just bad." 
That's when Petrucelli decided to intervene. Keeping his team on the field at halftime, Petrucelli got the point across that he did not want this to be the final collegiate game for the seniors. 
"Those guys mean so much to me," he added. "I couldn't look those guys in the face and feel good about what was happening to them. Those guys have actually been on my mind for the past couple of weeks, knowing that their time is running out." 
In an interesting twist, Petrucelli directed his remarks at the under­classmen, imploring them to not to allow the seniors' careers not to end on this note. 
"I don't know if I've ever been so 
emotional with the team," he said. "I 
don't know if my team believed they 
could win at halftime. 
"I challenged the underclassmen to give the seniors a chance to play another game." 
Junior midfielder Holly Manthei may not qualify as an underclassmen, but understood the challenge just the same. It was Manthei who served two dangerous corner kicks into the box on which the Irish converted their first two goals. 
"I guess being an underclassmen, I 
really felt it was directed more 
towards me," Manthei said. "It really 
got me thinking. The seniors have 
done so much for this program. I 
couldn't stand to see them lose a 
game like this." 
"I think we lacked emotion in the 
first half and the halftime speech 
brought it back," Renola concluded. 


her first double effort ever in her collegiate career. Holan gave the Pilots an almost instantaneous lead off a set free kick play. Baumgardt chipped a pass over the Irish defensive wall to find Holan, who drilled it into the net. 
"I thought at one point we were ready to quit," said Petrucelli. "We've been behind before and in situations where we had to come back. But with a team like Portland when you're down by two it is hard to come back. It was a great effort. We didn't quit and they believed in themselves." 

mortality was finally put into perspective. "It was kind of a feeling of both frustration and disbelief," she said. 
"She was put in a situation where she didn't really have a chance and I think that's where the frustration was, that she couldn't make an impact," head coach Chris Petrucelli said. 
Thanks to an inspired halftime ses­sion and even more inspired play in the second half. the Irish beat the 



Sixty of Your Favorite Men Cordially Invite You To An Evening Filled With Good Friends, Holiday Cheer, and Song 

Gl€€<:~00 
ri~tma~ 
ncert 
Saturday, December 14th 6:00 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. Proceeds Will Benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless Tick~ets May Be Purchased at 
LaFortune Student Center Tick~et Office Haggar College Center at St. Mary's College Little Professor Bool' Center in South Bend 





page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 10, 1996 
• MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish improve in narrow defeat to Huskies 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Anderson, Badgers stun Irish 
Please Recycle The Observer 
...... 

0 0 
0 0 SPRING 
BREAK '97 0 0 
g 0 P/J\:CIC/4\,::G,fS.S g 0 
0 0 
0 0 
0 01'!~~F1f.,.::]i\80m~ 
Special to 1hc Observer 
Senior guard Keisha Anderson scored a career­high 26 points as the 19th-ranked Badgers (7-0) shocked 10th-ranked Notre Dame (7-3) 81-69. It was the first-ever road victory for the Badgers over a ranked opponent. 
Ann Klapperich added 19 points in the contest, while Amy Wiersma had 10 points and a game­high 12 rebounds to lead Wisconsin. Katryna Gaither had a game-high 27 points for Notre Dame, while Sheila McMillen added a career best 20 points. 
Notre Dame led 36-34 at the half, but was outscored 14-7 to start the second half as Wisconsin took a 48-43 lead with 16:07 left in the contst when Klapperich nailed a 12-foot jumper with 16:07 left in the contest. 
o 

g N""o::n..-S~op ~gh~s g 
g §o1LJntlht lB>cemudl = (C<allnt<C1UUnt g
0 0 
o §o1untlht lB><elnudl = Jf<atlllntcat tL<C<at o
0 0 0 0 
g~Oid'~' H~r~t,g;:. .. Which do you prefer? g
0 0 
g ANTHONY TRAVEL g o 0 LaFortune Student Center 0 o 
0 0 0 631-7080 0 
0 

000000000000000000000000000000000 ° 
98UPDATB 
study brea 

Monday, December 16 8to 11pm Library Concourse Hot Cider &Cocoa, Cookies, &Giveaways! 


The Irish tied the score at 51-51 on Kari Hutchinson's 17-footjumper. Notre Dame 
built its lead to four points (60-56) with 10:40 left in the contest before Wisconsin went on an 19-4 run to take a 77-64 lead, its largest of the game with 2:42 remaining. 
Wisconsin outrebounded Notre Dame in the game 39-33 and forced 25 Irish turnovers. The Badgers shot 47.7 percent from the field, while Notre Dame hit just 43.3 percent from the floor. 
The Irish converted 19 of 21 free throws in the game (90.5 percent). 
The loss was Notre Dame's second in the last three games after beginning the season with a 6­1 record as the Irish now are 7-3. The loss also snapped a seven-game win streak at home in the Joyce Center. 
By JOHN COPPOLELIA 
Sports Wri1er 
The Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team suffered a one-point loss last weekend to the ......-----.,...,..,~ University of Connecticut, as they placed second in the Notre Dame Invitational. 
The Irish led throughout most of the meet, but relin-l...oiiiii-!.-.JI quishcd their lead on the final race, as the Huskies finished four seconds ahead of the Irish in the 400 meter freestyle relay. Losing a meet, especially a meet as important to the Irish as the Notre Dame Invitational, can be devastating, but Notre Dame head coach Tim Welsh sees many positives in this loss. 
"We didn't spend the meet counting points, at least not until the last race," Coach Welsh explained. "When we swam there last month, we lost by 25 points. Obviously, we are closing the gap and, hopefully, the next time we see them, we will be able to beat them. I felt our guys swam a really good meet. Many of our swimmers turned in their best times of the year." 
One of the bright spots for the Irish was the marked improvement of nearly every Irish competitor. While there were many personal bests for Irish swimmers, two Irish swimmers set school records. 

On Thursday, Herb Huesman set a record by earning a score of 519 in one meter diving while, on Friday, Chris Fugate broke the old Notre Dame mark in the 100 meter backstroke. 
Other Irish times of note were John Lubker's 15:55.43 to win the 1650 meter freestyle and the 1:52.95 time turned in by Scott Zumback to set the pace in the 200 meter butterfly. 
Coach Welsh emphasized learning and growth that can come out of this narrow defeat are very important, espe­cially with the Big East Championships only three months away. 
"If we improve more than UConn does from now until the Big East champi­onship, then we will be able to defeat them in that competition," Coach Welsh stated. 
"Passing UConn by in the Big East was one of our main goals at the beginning of the season and I feel we are on track to accomplish this goal." 
Notre Dame came unbelievably close to defeating UConn, losing by the score of 922.5-921.5. 
The Irish finished second overall in the Notre Dame Invitational. placing ahead of the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee and the University of Buffalo. 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 

MESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00p.m. Thursday, December 12, 1996 Friday, December 13, 1996 Washington Hall 

Open to the public. Admission: $6 General; $3 Students & Senior Citizens Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office or at the door. 


-~-----------~------------·--------·-------~---..
~-~--~~­

Tuesday, December 10, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
30 Kismet 42Yearn 50 With 53-Down, a
puzzle's theme 31 Meanie 43 Gourmet's beverage brand song 32 Stand up to sense since 1777 
11 Erode 33 Routine 45 Birchbark 53 See above 34 Optimistic 35Aided

--·~-U~~ Museum site 
II! ~-':--+'::+C:...III"''-=ioiio..,. 13 Alternative to 36 Player of this Answers to any three clues in this puzzle Marlboros puzzle's theme are available by touch-tone phone: ~~-::-fl!ll'~:::+=+:-+::-+.~ 17 Electric wire song 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). feature 38 O'Neill's Annual subscriptions are available for the -=-t::+-:+.:-i 24 Middle of the "Bey,?nd the best of Sunday crosswords from the last lyric 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
In the busy holiday season we must remember to give generously to ourselves as well as others or we won't have much 
cr/ie ~cSports staffwou[d[i~
to give at all! Use the following tips to stick with your wellness behaviors through the holidays: 
to wisli tlie
*Eat the foods that sound good -use moderation as the key and you can savor any food during the holidays. *Get regular physical activity -it keeps your metabolism in high :Notre CDame community a gear and helps to minimize the stress of the season. *Focus on family and friends, not the food -talk as much as you can liappy andlieaftliyat parties since it's difficult to talk and eat at the same time.· 
*Get plenty of rest. liofiday season. 

_ *Enjoy the beauty of the season.
7
-631-6100 

CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD ED LEADER 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
WOW! 
TION THIS I 
M'Y 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Tie up 47 Period of decline 26 Moon vehicles, 48 Pasty 
1 Mah-jongg for short 49Annul
pieces 6 Van adjunct 27 Ren and Stimpy 51 Recipe title part etal. 
52 End of the lyric 10 Catered 28 Minotaur's home 54 Half a score 13 Locale of Prince 29 Dorothee, e.g.: 

55 Christmas Albert and Abbr. 

Prince George 56 Not take part in 
30Type set 

14Golden-­57 Byrnes of "77
31 Prayer

(century plant) Sunset Strip" 
32 Lively dances 58 "First Knight" 15 Crew member 34 Sales lure star16 Start of an old 37 Snack of nuts, 59 Lilac, e.g. 

song lyric 
raisins, etc. 18 U.S. 101, e.g.: 
38 Part of H.M.S. Abbr. 
41 In reserve DOWN 19 Visitor to Venus 
42 Fabled racer 20 Nothing 1 Upholstery 
43 Small bag fabric

21 "--better to 44 Stuffing herb 
2Howsome

have loved ..." 45 Peace partners work 
22 Cat Nation 46 Tended, with 3 Word on a door 23 Kind of arch "for" 
4 Ideal sites 5 Hotel convenience ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Cheerleader's 
cheer 7 Dress styles 8 Multiplex 25 Jewish ritual 39 Manages 46Work in 
offering 27 Ready 40Cinnamon panels 9 Rind 28 Cut, as a picture candy 48 Fly 



YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON <;'­
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Friends, favors and new funding will play a prominent role in your happiness. Direct your energies into artistic and creative projects. Mov­ing to a new location in February or March will help you improve the bottom line. A promotion is likely by June. Your· romantic partner may want to make a fresh start. Take loved ones' needs into consideration when pondering a job offer. A reunion could provide answers to a question that has long troubled you. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Rita Moreno, novelist Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, actress Teri Garr, producer Carlo Ponti. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Analyzing your cunent position will help you find ways to improve it. Pick up on the hints dropped by family or friends. It is time to make changes around the house. Instead of pouting, compromise. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Decide what you want, then go after it. Although someone repays an old debt, there could be some strings attached. Take a romantic disap­pointment in stride. Your romantic partner may be having a bad day. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A romantic attraction deserves further thought. Someone may be toying with your affections. Avoid invest­ing in pie-in-the-sky financial ven­tures even if close friends promote them. Keep your money in the bank. 
CANCER (June 2 I -July 22): View a recent event as a learning experience. Aim high and your dreams will come true 1 Trust your head, not your heart, when making financial decisions. Someone may try pulling the wo.ol over your eyes. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An excellent week to pursue ne\1 inter­ests. Self-improvement activities are favored. Meeting a deadline will test your stamina. Roll up your sleeves and get busy I 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A connie! between work and pleasure could drive you crazy. To be on the safe side, opt for business as usual. Jump in quickly to take advantage of a golden financial opportunity. Invest wisely. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Act­ing overly independent could initate your co-workers or family. Empha­size your willingness to cooperate. Pouring your energy into worthy causes will give you a psychological lift. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A decisive attitude will help you get your way. Change is healthy for an alliance in need of rejuvenation. Show the same good timing in romance that you display in busi­ne'5. Press your advantage. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Seize an unexpected opportuni­ty to change someone's impression of you. Be gracious; extend a friend­ly hand. Others will admire your positive approach. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Protect your assets by going over accounts on a regular basis. Your sparkling wit attracts new admirers. You receive several week­end invitations. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Pay close attention to instructions or details that could trip you up. Ask questions if you are unclear about certain procedures. Try not to let household problems intrude at work. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
New acquaintances add glamor 10 
your social life. You may experience 
a certain amount of restlessness 
now. Working out at the gym or tak­
ing long walks will help. 




---------~ --------~--~~--­
SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, December 10, 1996 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
A head above the Irish 
Keller's header slips past Reno/a, ruins goalie's best game of the year 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ tained the team with Sports Writer phenomenal saves to keep the game close until Debbie Keller SANTA CLAHA sneaked by the only goal in the 
At the 58 minute mark in the second half of overtime. second half. UNC forward, Twenty five minutes into the sophomore Cindy Parlow, first half, Tar Heel midfielder broke away from the Irish de­Laurie Schwoy launched a fense to face a looming show­rocket from just outside the down with Irish goalkeeper, box. Henola made a punching senior Jen Henola. The three save over the crossbar. Just time All-American exploded off fifteen minutes after her first the backline to make a low save, she doused UNC forward blocking save, and snuff out Nicole Hobert's chance. another Carolina opportunity. Henola dashed off the backline This save was just one of many to stop the offensive strike. in this game. North Carolina launched four 
"They definitely tested me a shots, all of which Renola lot." said Henola. "I have not saved. "This was one of the had to do this much all year." best games all year because I 
Irish captain Henola was the had not seen that much ac-The Observer/Mike Ruma bright spot in a dismal contest. Jen Renola (17) and Shannon Boxx could not prevent Debbie Keller's header from rolling into the net in the second overtime (above), as the scoreboard behind the Irish (below) indicates the one goal difference. 
From the backfield, she cap-see REN0 LA/ page 12 
A time to say goodbye 
the other seniors on our team that not Jen Renola addressed the many people in my class around the 
media following the 1-0 loss to country can say they have. That is 
orth Carolina, head coach Chris what I am proud of." Petrucelli was at her side. Petrucelli knew she couldn't have 
While Renola 
r-------, said it any better. The sad part was spoke, Petrucelli that the time had finally come for her fought back the tears. to say it. Tears shed not for a You sec, Petrucelli reserves a special loss suffered minutes place in his heart for the members of earlier, but because his squad that played their final game of Renola's words. on Sunday. His prized recruiting class 
"I have had a great of 1993 elevated the program into the career," she said. "I national spotlight it is now accustomed have helped build a Joe Villinski to. program from not a Associate Sports Four NCAA Tournaments. Three 
whole lot, and a pro-Editor Final Fours. A National Championship. 
gram that is going to Hesults that help put Sunday's loss into 
be around for years to come. That is perspective. 
what I have left on the game of college You can call me a hi>mer or tell 
soccer. We didn't win today, but we Petrucelli to get a grip, hut just think 
won last year. I think that I have left 
something along with Cindy (Daws) and see INSIGHT/ page 12 
By DAVE TREACY yeah, he will start. And if he's not also good coming back with his right Associate Sports Editor feeling o.k .. then Marcus (Young) will hand. So he is a big-time player." start," MacLeod said. Notre Dame will likely use a combi­
The New Hampshire Wildcats may New Hampshire's game differs from nation of several players on Acres, smell blood as they trek into the Joyce the pressing mentality of the Friars, although he will line up opposite Pat Arena tomorrow night. which gives the Irish a sigh of relief. Garrity. The match-up will be one to 
A rough defeat at the hands of the MacLeod predicted, however, that the watch as Garrity held Providence's Providence Friars and several injuries Wildcats may press after seeing the main scorer, Austin Croshere, to five leave the Notre Dame squad as the grief it caused in the Irish offense last points in their show-down. "Walking Wounded" more than the Saturday at Providence. The team will benefit if Wyche can "Fighting Irish." What John "We're gonna get pressed again, find his way back onto the floor at MacLeod's team must hope is that the perhaps against New Hampshire," either the shooting or point guard loss of sharpshooter Keith Friel to an MacLeod ofl'ered. position for some quality minutes. His infection, the questionable status of The Wildcats do have a potent scor­explosiveness and quickness make Matt Gotsch, who has exhibited flu er in Matt Acres. The 6-7 junior for­him more of a threat to drive the lane symptoms, the continued loss of Gary ward is the focus of the Wildcat than his counterpart in the starting Bell with a badly sprained ankle. and offense, and has MacLeod's squad line up, Pete Miller. Miller's prowess Antoni Wyche's struggle to retain top similarly focused on him. comes in smart decision-making and form won't cause further collapse "He's a key, he's really a very, very tenacious defense, but the Irish need against the Wildcats. good basketball player," MacLeod another scoring threat to take some 
Gotsch is still expected to start at evaluated. "Acres is a very good play­pressure off of Garrity. MacLeod center against New Hampshire, unless er inside. He's a tremendous passer, wants to cure Wyche of a wild streak his symptoms worsen. a tremendous touch passer, and he's 
"If (Gotsch) is feeling o.k., then, very good going to the left and he's 
see IRISH I page l 0 





vs. New Hampshire, at Princeron, December I 0, 7:30p.m. 

December 28, 4 p.m. a) 
• Women's basketball loses to Badgers
"­
vs. Indiana, Men's Diving at Longhorn 

~ 
December 11, 7 p.m. 

Diving Invitational, see page 14 
., 
., ..... 
January 5-7 Women's Swimming 
•Swimmers split Notre Dame Invite 
and Diving at Hawaii, Basketball at Olivet Colege, see page I l , 14December 30 

~ 
December 10, 7 p.m . 
......= ~ 






