
Thursday, March 21, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 109 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND honors Prejean with Laetare Student leaders to 
"The most pro­
focus on diversity
Death penalty found moral ques­
Winners of the laetare Medal
tion of our violent society," she said 

in Trustees' report 
for the Past Ten Years
abolitionist's story 
recently, "is not 
By JAMIE HEISLER 
1986 Thomas P. and Mary Elizabeth Carney, 
what to do with the
inspires popular film 
Associate News Editor 
chairman of the University of Notre 
innocent, but what 
Dame's Board of Trustees and
Obsrrvcr Staff Report to do about the 
After requesting input from the student body,
spouse

guilty. We ask. 
a student government committee chose multieul­
1987 Father Theodore Hesburgh, educator turalism as the focus of their annual report to 
Sister llelen Prejean. the death 'Don't they deserve 
1988 Eunice Kennedy Shriver. humanitarian 1989 Walker Percy, novelist
penalty abolitionist whose autobiog­to die?' But the the Notre Dame Board of Trustees. 
raphy inspired the critically real question 
"We mean multiculturalism in the purest sense
1990 Sister Thea Bowman, Gospel singer and evangelist 
aeclaimed film "Dead Man Walking," should be, 'Do we of the word-diverse eultures living together not
will reeeive Notre Dame's 1996 deserve to kill 
1991 Corinne "Lindy" Boggs, former United States 
just minority concerns," said Student Body
l.1wtarn Mt~dal, them?"' 
Congresswoman 

President Jonathan Patrick. According toaecording to As a spiritual 
1992 Daniel Patrick Moynihan. United States 
Patrick, in relation to multiculturalism, students
University presi­counselor, Prejean 
Senator 

mentioned their concerns with a lack of focus on
dent Father has accompanied 
1993 Donald R. Keough, chairman emeritus of 
different cultures, as well as certain feelings ofEdward Malloy. three men to the 
Notre Dame's Board of Trustees 
isolation between members of diiTerent cultures. 
The medal will be electric chair and 
1994 Sidney Callahan, psychologist and author 
These concerns were brought to the attentionpres1-mted to witnessed their 
1995 Cardinal Joseph Bernardin, Archbishop of 
of the committee as a result of a process started
Prejean during deaths. And she 
Chicago 

early in Mareh, in which student government re­Notre Damn's 151st continues her min­
1996 Sister Helen Prejean, social activist 
quested student organizations, as well as indi­
commencement istry to death row 
viduals, to submit applications expressing issues exerdses May 19. inmates and to vic-Cabrini Parish in New Orleans and as of concern on campus in order to form a basis"To dtHtth row residents. to the tims' families today. A founder of a formation director for her religious for the report. 
families of rnurdt~r victims, and to our "Survive," a victims' advocacy group, community. She is now a high school A student government eommittee then exam­whole sudety, her words and deeds she served as a member of the board English teacher in New Orleans. ined these applications, looking for commonproclaim the gospel of life in unmis­of the National Coalition to Abolish The Laetare Medal is named concerns among students and found multicultur­takable and twnn unsettling terms." the Death Penalty from 1985-95 and because its recipient is announced alism to be the most prevalent. According toPn~jean traces her involvement in as its chair from 1993-95. 
annually on Laetare Sunday, the 4th Patrick, there were many other concerns pre­tlw issue of capital punishment to her ller nationwide lectures on capital Sunday in Lent. "Laetare," the Latin sented in the first round of applieations includ­rnligious community's formal pledge, punishment brought her to Notre word for "rejoice," is the first word in ing academic concerns as well as women'smade puhlil: in l!JHO, to "stand on the Dame two years ago as a guest of the the entrance antiphon of the Mass issues.
side of the poor." Prejean initially students of Keenan Hall. 
that Sunday. The medal bears the The inclusion of non-student government
lwsitated in agrneing to this pledge, !\ native of Baton Rouge, La., 
Latin inscription, "Magna est veritas groups in the formation of the Board of Trusteesshe said in her autobiography. Prejnan, 56, has worked and lived in et prevalebit" -"Truth is mighty, report is an initiative begun this year in anllowever. in 1982, at the request of Louisiana all her life. The second of and its shall prevail." attempt to increase student body representationa fri1-md, she began eormspondence three children in what she calls "as Established at Notre Dame in 1883, before the Board of Trustees. In previous years, with Elmo Patrick Sonnier. a 27-solid and loving a family as one could 
the medal was conceived as an members of student government alone ap­
ytmr-old death row resident convict­hope for," she joined the Sisters of St. 
American counterpart of the Golden proached the Board with their report. 
net of murdt~ring a tt~en-age couple. Joseph of Medaille in 1957 when she Rose, a papal honor which originated "Our first thought was just bringing more stu­i\s the date for Sonnier's execution was 1H. 
prior to the 11th century. dent voices, but in the interest of making the
approaelwd, she became his close She graduated from St. Mary's The medal has been awarded conversation more productive, we decided to
friend and spiritual counselor, even­Dominican College in New Orleans in annually at Notre Dame to a Catholic focus around a certain topic," Patrick said .
tually witrwssing his execution. Since 1962 and received a master's degree "whose genius has ennobled the arts Student government is now asking for a sec­then, she has lwen equally outspoken in religious education from St. Paul's and sciences, illustrated the ideals of ond ro.und of applications from both campusas an opponent of capital punishment University in Ottawa, Canada, in the Church and enriched the heritage organizations as well as individuals in order toand as an advocate for victim's 1973. She has served as religious rights. education director of St. Francis 
see MEDAL I page 4 see BOARD I page 6 


• RESIDENCE HAll ASSOCIATION 

SMC to elect executive board 
By MAUREEN HURLEY platform include: an all-school vice president and secretary. Saint Mary'• News Editor event each semester, working respectively. Cernok is the to modify the lottery system for McCandless Hall representative 
Today, Saint Mary's College housing, spirit week throughout for HHA and also serves on will nleet its IIJ%-97 Hesidence the residence halls, increasing RHA's publicity committee. llall Association (Hili\) execu­student support for athletic ac­Fleming is the McCandless Hall tive board. tivities, and working closer with president. 
The sole ticket running is: the Board of Governance (BOG). "Nikki and !learned a lot tak­
Nikki Milos, prnsident; Christine The ticket stresses their wide ing over as the new board," Binsnnlwrger. vice president; range of experience gained on said Riesenberger. "/\lot of sit­M11g Ctwnok. seeretary; and Kim the Hili\ board. Currently, uations came up this year, and f."fmuing. treasurnr. Milos and Hiesenberger serve 
Major ideas from the ticket's on the Hili\ exeeutive board as see RHA I page 4 
Couple sponsors Dante collection 

TeleFile alleviates tax time stress for students 
By CORRINE DORAN 
News Writer 
As tax time quickly ap­proaches, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students may find it easier than ever to file with the IRS. 
TeleFile, a new system that allows those who normally complete 1040-EZ forms to enter information by telephone instead. will be available to be­tween 20 and 23 million Ameri­cans this year. 
The paperless system, de­signed to ease the complica­tions involved in paper filing and to eliminate IHS inefficien­cies, will automatically com­pute the amount to be refunded or the additional tax due after the appropriate information from the W-2 form is entered. 
"Filing taxes doesn't gel any easier than this," said IHS Tax Commissioner Margaret Milner Hichardson. "TeleFile will not only save taxpayers time and trouble but will also make the ms more efficient," she added. 
This is the first year the IHS has made such a system avail­able, and consequently, an analysis of its effectiveness needs to be done after the tax season, according to Account­ing Professor Ken Milani. 
"I think it's a system that ba­sically is in the experimental stage," said Milani. "My major concern with the effort will be the things that are omitted that costthe taxpayer." 
"If it works well it will help those taxpayers and it will help the IRS. It's a win-win situa­tion," Milani added. 
Those eligible to file by tele­phone will receive special Tele­File instructions and a Personal Identification Number (PIN) along with their regular tax booklet. 
The PIN number serves as the taxpayer's signature and, along with his or her social se­curity number. as identification if any questions arise concern­ing the return. 
Because of its fairly simple design, the TeleFile system makes sense for those people eligible to file with it, according to Milani. 
"It makes a lot of sense for a lot of taxpayers if they fit in those parameters," Milani said. 
The TeleFile service is avail­able to single people with no dependents who have taxable income of less than $50,000. 
To be eligible for the service, a taxpayer must have previ­
see TELEFILE I page 4 

Thursday, March 21, 1996
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COI..UMN 

Spring Break 
101 

Okay, I admit. I didn't.~=====~ 
get crazy for spring break this year. I gathered up my laundry, tossed my books in the car, and drove. Home. 
Oh, yes. To the place where my body doesn't tan, my liver rejoices, and L------'~--_J the extent of my social Caroline Blum life consists of trips to Saint Mary's Editor the video store. 
But as I laid back on the dusty coach in my basement, kicked up my feet, closed my eyes, and forgot about the paper I swore I'd write, I realized the lessons that spring break taught me each year. 
My freshman year I went to Florida. I got to see the beach for the first time in my life. (Step off, I'm from the Midwest. It could hap­pen.) It was a discovery period for me. I saw the ocean, breathed the air. Walked on the beach. Tasted salt water. Rented a wave runner. Experienced a vacation without my parents. Got sick off Zima and Bud Ice. (Remember when they were big?) 
And then there was Cancun. 
I just want to take a moment to acknowl­edge those of us out there who have experi­enced a spring break in Cancun. Whoa Nellie. 
Cancun was a discovery for me as well. I learned a lot of important lessons about life. 
1) In life, realize that even the things you love the most are capable of being distorted. Like listening to "With or Without You" with a techno beat. 
2) Trends never die, such as the male sleeveless T -shirt. 
3) There are certain characteristics about yourself that you can't change. For instance, being 5'0" tall. It's not so fun being short when you're fighting for your life at foam party. 
4) No matter how happy you are to see your hotel (place of residence) at the end of the night, it's not such a good idea to give your cab driver a kiss on the cheek when he drops you off. 
5) Don't disturb the hibernated. Those asleep by the side of the pool really don't want to take a late-night dip with you. 
6) Learn the language. A Margarita or two sure does a lot for your Spanish speaking abil­ity. (But not so much for market shopping). 
7) Be careful where you decide to take a nap. Passing out on the beach is not a good idea, you might find yourself in the middle of the ocean. (I never did get that ebb and tide stuff.) 
8) Your old Girl/Boy Scout Leader was right. Use the buddy system. 
9) Notre Dame sports will follow you for the rest of your life. And every bar in the world has the Notre Dame VictorY. March on CD. 
10) If someone asks you 1f you want to see their new tattoo, say no. 
12) Stay healthy. If you don't feel so good one morning, have a Bloody Mary. 
13) While traveling, don't give the natives your credit card when you've had a few Coronas. You might not get it back. 
14) Don't go to Bladder Busters at Fat Tuesdays. People bring cameras. 
15) Don't be afraid to ask someone to buy you and all of your friends a drink, even if you just met them. You might get lucky. 
16) Be responsible of your possessions. If you leave your camera lying around, some crazy might come and take it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• Tmuw's STAFf 
News Graphics 
Maureen Hurley Chris Mullins Gwen Norgle Production Derek Betcher Jana Bruder 
Tara Grieshop Sports Betsy Baker Lab Tech 
T. Ryan Kennedy Dave Murphy 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
except during exam and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righls are reserved. 
• Wmu.o AT A GtANCE 
Suicide bomber kills Israeli soldier, seven wounded 
TYRE, quickly," Peres said. 
A suicide bomber from the Iranian-After the threat, the United States backed Hezbollah blew himself up near intervened to try to keep the violence an Israeli army convoy in southe from growing. Lebanon today, killing one soldier. U.S. Ambassador Martin Indyk called Israeli civilian was slightly wounded, Peres on Tuesday to ask him to hold off Israeli army said. on a military strike until Washington 
Israeli troops came under mortar could ask President Hafez Assad of Syria around the same time, the Israeli -the main power broker in Lebanon-said, and gunners opened up with 1 to restrain Hezbollah, two Israeli mm howitzers and 120-mm mortar newspapers reported. against a cluster of Shiite Muslim villages President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt also just north of the enclave, according to sent a message to Jerusalem urging Lebanese security sources. L---''--~ restraint, the Yediot Ahronot and Davar 
It took place just weeks after newspapers said. Palestinian militants carried out four sui-An Israeli government official who cide bombings in Israel that killed 62 spoke on condition of anonymity con-people, including four bombers. firmed the U.S. efforts. There was no Hezbollah said its attack was in response immediate Israeli reaction to yesterday's to the international anti-terror confer-Golan Heights attack. 
ence held in Egypt last week in responseL.J'---___.s....LL<'L._______J Ten minutes after the blast, to the bombings in Israel. AP/Carl Fox Hezbollah's radio station, Voice of the 
On Tuesday, Prime Minister Shimon Peres of Israel Oppressed, interrupted its regular programming to claim warned that guerrillas in Lebanon would pay for increas-responsibility. ing attacks on Israeli troops, who have controlled south-"In response to Sharm el-Sheik summit and to those ern Lebanon since 1985 in an attempt to curb guerrilla who sleep on the doorsteps of the White House, a resis­raids on northern Israeli settlements. tance holy warrior attacked an enemy convoy today," the 
"He who tries to harm Israel will be punished, and very statement said. It gave no other details. 
Bayh's '95 contributions questioned 
MUNSTER, Ind. 
People and companies with ties to the gaming industry contributed more than 10 percent of the money Gov. Evan Bayh collected last year for a possible 
U.S. Senate run in 1998, a statewide gambling newsletter reported. Of the more than $1 million raised, nearly $116,000 came from lawyers, lobbyists, accountants, engineers and investors 

with significant gambling interests, according to Indiana Gaming Insight, a weekly newsletter chronicling the state's gaming industry. Bayh hasn't formally announced that he'll seek the Senate seat once held by his father, Birch Bayh, and now occupied by Sen. Dan Coats. But the younger Bayh's second and final gubernatorial term expires this year, and he created an exploratory commit­tee last September allowing him to raise money for a fed­eral campaign. "With regard to people coming in from Las Vegas, or that kind of thing, whom I've had no previ­ous connection with, who've not been supporters of mine for a long time or are not longtime residents of Indiana, in general, I have not accepted support from folks like that," Bayh said. 
Lizard mating game discovered 
NEW YORK 
A complicated mating game is going on in California, played by harem-keeping males. female impersonators and fellas who just want to get along. They're all lizards. Literally. Scientists studying the side-blotched lizard in rocky outcrops in the foothills of the Coast Range report that the male mating strategies resemble the child's game of rock-paper-scissors. They showed that the mat­ing strategy that got the most females constantly shifted. Males with orange throat markings are very aggressive and defend large territories, keeping harems of up to six females. They take females away from the blue-throated male, which is less aggressive and typically has only one or two females. When the orange-throats are common, it's a bonanza for the third kind of male, female imper­sonators with yellow stripes on their throats. These "sneakers" invade orange-throat harems for quick sex, avoiding harm because they look and behave like fe­males. 

Cheaper drugs may actually cost more 
LOS ANGELES 
Cheaper prescription drugs required by HMOs may ac­tually increase the cost of medical care in the long run, a study published today suggests. The study in the Ameri­can Journal of Managed Care says the practice, a long­time cornerstone of medical cost control. may mean ac­cess to some drugs is restricted and sometimes the most effective medicines aren't used. More than 100 million Americans belong to managed-care plans that require or encourage their doctors to prescribe drugs from lists of "formularies." The programs also encourage pharmacists to recommend the less expensive, generic medications. The study covered 13 thousand patients in six Health Maintenance Organizations. Thomas Purdon, medical director of the University of Arizona Health Sciences Cen­ter, offered one example of how such a forumulary might increase health-care costs. Standard treatment for the common sexually transmitted disease chlamydia is an an­tibiotic called doxycycline taken four times a day for seven days. A new antibiotic called azithromycin can cure the disease with one dose, but the drug costs four times as much. Some health researchers said the methodology used in the study raised questions about its conclusions. 
Funeral highlights biker gang war 
STENLOESE, Denmark 
Their faces cold and expressionless, scores of bikers from a Texas-led motorcycle gang buried a comrade Wednesday who was killed in a flare-up of their turf war in Scandinavia. Clad in black leather and riding Harley­Davidson motorcycles. European. Australian and Ameri­can members of the Bandidos converged on Stenloese, a sleepy village 22 miles northwest of Copenhagen. Many of the bikers appeared to be wearing bulletproof vests, standard equipment during a feud. All wore black arm­bands, and a few wore small signs reading "God forgives, Bandidos don't." Dozens of police were scattered around the small church during the 30-minute service, but no violence was reported and no weapons were visible. Po­lice said 200 bikers attended the ceremony. The Bandi­dos-affiliated gangs have made inroads on Hells Angels' turf in recent years, apparently leading to the recent retaliatory attacks, Danish authorities said. 


Thursday, March 21 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, March 21.
AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
llndianapoliSj 34° I 

ILL. 
• 
FRONTS: 
...,......... ....__._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

0 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L ffi ISSl !Til 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
V1a Aasoaated Press 
KY. 

~/1...rOa8cl ~~a 
,,,,,~,~ ......:. ·=·.:::·.::=· -::..-:..-:.. 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Prsss GraphtcsNet 


Thursday, March 21, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 3 

ND noted as prime



Wadell: Find friend in Christ 

HOURS: Monday-Thursday 7:00a.m. to I0:00p.m. • Friday 7:00a.m. to 8:00p.m. • Saturday 9:00a.m. to 7:00p.m. • Sunday 9:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. 
lan 'till May 15th for s:15! 
EARLY SESSION
Must bnng coupon! 

Six weeks beginning May 17 (6 pm)

20% OFF Any Tanning 
LATE SESSION Six weeks beginning June 28 (6 pm)

Accelerator. 

• Day, evening or weekend classes. 
NOTRE DAME 

• Courses in business, arts and sciences, 2.77-1166 education, nursing. 
Walftine Disl:ance from N.D. • All courses applicable to Loyola University Chicago degrees. 
• Classes held at Loyola's Lake Shore (Chicago), Water Tower (Chicago), Medical Center (Maywood), and Mallinckrodt (Wilmette) campuses.
Attention Hospitality Program 
• Convenient Touch-Tone registration (ITR) system.
Members ·· Past and Present: 
r-------------------------------------------------, 
THE SUMMER SESSIONS To receive your free copy of the 1996 : Loyola University Chicago The Summer Sessions bulletin, 1 820 N. Michigan Avenue return coupon or call (312) 915-6501. : Chicago, IL 60611-2196 1
Tonight at 8:00p.m. in_ Room 138 DeBartolo we will have our 
I

final meeting to prepare lor April Visitation. 
I I

Name 
•I
II you did not attend Tuesday night's meeting, please tome tonight. 
~~~,-~-----------------------------------------: 
I

Please bring your personal calendar anti a pen. 
I City Zip I 
I I 

L-------------------------------------------------~
Questions? Unable to attend? Call: 
Colleen Walton Jennifer Carrier Student Coordinator Undergraduate Admissions 
4-4707 1-7505 

We really need your help, so please make every effort to attend! 
By KATIILEEN POLICY 
New' Writer 
J."athr.r Paul Wadell spoke of Christ as an integral part of a "spiritual frinndship" in his lee­turn concerning "Our Life Tngnther in Christ" at Saint Mary's yestnrday. 
1\ mem her of the Passionist Community and a Professor of Nhics at the Catholic Theologi­eal Union. Wadell proposed that Christ walks with us in spiritual friendships. 
1\ spiritual friend is sorneorw who is "a companion of the 

Fill Your Head ... 
Counseline Gives You the Information You Need. 


Counseline: 



lx7793 
Counseline is an audiotape information service sponsored by the Psych Club and the University Counseling Center. Counseline offers information on stress, anxiety, relationships, depression, self­esteem, eating disorders, and anger. Look around your dorm for our list of tapes. The phones are open Mon-Thurs 4pm to 12am. We are here to provide you with the information you need. 



soul." someone who grows with us in the fullness of Christ, and someone who shares our sense of what is good, Wadell said. 
These friendships are neces­sary for three reasons, Wadell explained. First, they provide a life of diseipleship. 
Secondly, they allow the par­ticipants openness with each other. Thirdly, these friends lend support when everything else is going badly, Wadell said. 
Many attending students felt the lecture gave them new in­formation about their relation­
s~ips. 

site for Dante research 
SUMMER AT LOYOLA 
sion of "The Divine Comedy," chosen by the Devers. 
Associate Professor of Romance Language and Literature Ted Cachey, the director of the Devers Program, returned from leave in Florence, Italy for the commemoration. In his intro· duction of Baranski, he praised the Devers for enabling the "soul, shape and form of Dante to touch the hearts and lives of students." 
Describing Dante as the "greatest, best-known intelle<:­tual of his time," Baranski, a professional 'Dantist,' attrib­uted the Italian poet's genius to his enthusiasm for litera­ture. Speaking in the Special Collections reading room In Besburgh Library, Baranski stressed Dante's voracious ap­petite for books and how his extensive reading enabled him to create the masterpiece "The Divine Comedy." 
In addition to endowing an annual visiting professorship in Dante Studies, the Devers Program also funds rare book acquisitions and supports electronic and print publicu­tion of current scholarly. research in the field. 
Last year the Devers Program made two significant acquisitions in the Dante col­lection possible. The first was a 1629 edition of "The Divine Comedy," the last to be print­ed in the Renalssanee. This hand-held version of Dante's epic poem was the thirty-ninth to be acquired by tlw University. 
Also acquired through the Devers Program is a fine qual­ity facsimile of a fourteenth century manuscript of the Divine Comedy. Both are on display in Special Collections on the first floor of Hesburgh Library until May 15. 
"I thought the lecture was in­teresting because it made me realize that I have spiritual friends like this and I thought that they were just regular friends," said freshman Jen­nifer Pelic. 
The next installment of the Lenten Lecture Series, titled "To Lay Down One's Life for One's Friends," will take place next Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
It keeps more than 
• 



memones 

alive. 

American Heart ~ 
Association.M~ 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION MEMORIALS & TRIBUTES 
~ 
,.. 
1-800-AHA-USAl 
This space provided as a public service. ©1994. American Heart Association 

ByJILLIAN PAGLIOCCA 
News Writer 
At the inaugural celebration of the William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies yesterday, the first annual Devers visiting profes· sor, Zygmunt Baranski, called the program an "event of monumental importance and a key moment in the whole his­tory of the Dante movement." 
Baranski's remarks commemorated the first in a series of events organized in honor of the Devers Program. 
The Devers Program in Dante Studies was established in 1995 to promote a wide range of scholarly activities at Notre Dame relating to the study of the great Florentine poet, Dante Alighleri. The Dantn Program furthers the vision of Father John A. Zahm, who assembled one of North America's finest Dante collec­tions for Notre Dame. 
While William Devers, whose only campus connec­tion is his daughter's gradua­tion from the Notre Dame law school, seems an unlikely can­didate to fund a program based on a medieval Italian poet, he explains his donation as a means to "get back to my liberal arts roots." 
At a dinner on the 14th floor of llesburgh Library, following a mass said by University President Father Edward A. Malloy, William Devers said that he was "very happy that my wife and I took advantage of Monk's offer to support the program." 
As a symbol of the appreci­ation for the Devers' invest­ment in Dante studies at Notre Dame, a plaque has been placed in the Library Concourse, depicting a por­trait of Dante in a 1529 ver­
~ 
r 
Thursday, March 21, 1996
page 4 The Observer • NEWS 



TeleFile U.S. students lag in taking placement tests 
continued from page 1 
ously filed a 1040-EZ form and have received TeleFile infor­mation with the federal tax booklet. The entire filing process should take six to 10 minutes to complete, according to the IRS. 
Since the TeleFile system is completely electronic, it is the easiest way for the IRS to pro­cess refund checks. The gov­ernment agency estimates that a check should be received within 21 days of filing. The TeleFile system appears to be part of the IRS's continuing effort to reduce the amount of paper involved in the trans­action system. 
The IRS has also recently announced that it will offer direct deposit refunds and will greatly expand the quantity of information and forms avail­able on-line. 
Students can access this in­formation on the World Wide Web at http://www.ustreas.gov/trea­surylbureaus/irs/irs.html. The automated system is available in Spanish or English. 
Despite the ease of the new TeleFile system, those who owe additional taxes will not enjoy an extension on pay­ment; the IRS says the amount must be paid by the normal April15 tax deadline. 
Medal 
continued from page 1 
of humanity." It is commonly regarded as the most presti­gious honor given to American Catholics. 
Among the 117 previous re­cipients are President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker founder Dorothy Day and Archbishop Joseph Bernardin. 
By DEB RIECHMANN 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
High school students abroad take and pass more demanding tests in such subjects as physics and chemistry than college­bound students in America, a teachers' union says. The fig­ures show a need for tougher standards in this country, the union contenJs. 
"Most states here are work­ing on raising their academic standards," said Albert Shanker, president of the American Federation of Teachers, which represents 885,000 teachers. "So far, what we see are mostly good inten­tions, not rigorous standards like the ones students overseas must meet." 
The teachers union and the National Center for Improving Science Education released a study Wednesday that com­pares tests taken by students in Germany, France, Japan, England and Wales with advanced-placement tests ­the hardest exams taken by American high school stu­dents. 
The study, financed with a National Science Foundation grant, found that one-fourth to one-half of students in the for­eign countries take the exams. The percentage of students who pass ranges from 25 percent in England, Wales and Germany to a little more than 30 percent in France and Japan. 
In contrast, 8 percent of American 18-year-olds took the tests in chemistry, physics or some 15 other subjects in 1995, and only 5 percent passed, the report said. U.S. high school students can earn college credit by doing well on these tests. 
"Why aren't we up there?" Shanker asked. "In all the other countries, there are high stakes attached. If you want to go to college, you have to pass this test." 
"In the U.S., you clearly don't have to take any advanced­placement test or score at any particular level to be admitted to the overwhelming majority of our colleges and universities." 
Gerald Bracey, director of the Alliance for Curriculurn Reform, an Arlington, Va.­based umbrella group of 30 educational associations, says it's not fair to make interna­tional comparisons of these tests for that very reason. Abroad, they are college entrance exams, while in the United States, they are vol­untary, he said. Make them mandatory in America, and the results would be much differ­ent. 
Also, while the number of 
U.S. students taking the tests has risen from 98,000 in 1975 to 463,000 in 1995, some school districts are just begin­ning to offer advanced-place­ment courses, which tend to attract students who choose to take the tests, Bracey said. 
Applications are being accept­ed from NOW until MARCH 22 for all positions in LaFortune Student Center (under the supervision of the Student Activities Office) and Stepan Center. 
Applications can be picked up at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, or at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Apply now For a great opportunity and learning experience! 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
would like to congratulate all members who were awarded internships for the summer of 1996: 
Alaska--U.S. Dept. of Commerce Dean Roy, Tom Asci Ar~entina--Qlsten Corporation Susie Yang En~land--Market Access Ben Gray, Dave Buckley En~land--H&M Partners Rick Rembusch, Pat Maciariello En~land--Bank of Montreal Mary Schroeder 
En~land--Waste Mana~ement 
Amanda Maurer En~land--MHM Limited 
Kathleen Jordan  
En~land--Arthur  Andersen  
Elizabeth Stroik  
En~:Iand--Merrill  Lynch  

Brian Saldeen, Jennifer Nettesheim Estonia--Estonian Shippin~ Co. 
T. Ryan Murphy Estonia--Estonian Bank Carrie Stewart Estonia--Estonian Government Tom Snider 
Estonia--Dvi~atel 
Chris Hanson Germany--ABB Jason Subler, R. Jacob Bump Ireland--Citibank Mark O'Carroll Ireland--IBM Rebecca Calice Ireland--Janssen Pharmaceutical Kathleen Zimmer Ireland--Waterford Crystal Erin McMahon, Kim Shiely Ireland--Jefferson Smurfit Jeremy Heckman Ireland--H.J. Heinz Tom Roderick, Sarah Stock Mexico--Hylsa Carrie Cook, Ana Gutierrez Italy--Waste Mana~ement Kirsten Harter Russia--Aifa Capital Denise Campbell Russia--AT&T Lisa Kackos, Katie Bellock Russia--Morozov Project Catherine Mullaly, Emily Locher Russia--Honeywell Matt Murray Slovakia--Tatra Bank Bob Belden France--Arthur Andersen Kim Tonto Washin2ton. D.C.--Baltic-American Enterprise Fund Melinda LaLone Texas--EDS Christopher Millins New York--AIG Venta Norvillas, Kristen Bell, Holly Andrews, Keith Whelan Chica~o--Productivity Point Ben Cordell Estonia--Tallinn School Simon McLain, Nicole Carlstrom, John Kelly, Lisa Drury Estonia--Parnu School Dave Majewski, Corrine Doran Lithuania--Polish University Megan Zachow, Dana Kavorick, Dawn Novak Poland--Ja~iellonian University Mary Joel, Tim Vieria, Dustin DeGrande, Deb Hick Honduras--La Universidad CatOiica de Honduras Linda Tovar, Marifran Knutson, Gary Zehrbach, Adam Salgado 

NDCIBD would like to thank all those who applied for summer internships. This year's selection process was extremely competitve with a field ofhighly qualified applicants. Interns were selected on the basis ofCouncil involvement, strength ofacademic and professional record, and specifications particular to each firm. NDCIBD is open to students of all classes and majors--Come learn more about our organization on Saturday March 23 at 1:30 in the Knights of Colwnbus Building. The World is Waitint:l 
Thursday, March 21, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 5 
As he sees it... 

IDIDiigrants rush for green cards 
By MICHELLE MITTELSTADT her mother woke her and efits with the now-expired doc­Associated Press rushed her off downtown. ument. "I just dropped everything The INS began the card-re­WASIIINGTON and came down here," she placement effort in November 
Thousands of legal immi­said. 1993 in an attempt to deter grants, some responding to An INS spokesman in San counterfeiting of the green rumors of mass deportations, Antonio expressed some skep­card. 
rushed to federal offices na­ticism that latecomers weren't "We feel that in the 40 tionwide Wednesday to renew aware of the deadline. "We've months that this program has expiring "green cards... been in this roughly two years ensued, we have in fact made 
Immigration officials said and these folks have had a lot various and numerous attemptsthere was no threat of penalties of time to get in and do this," to make sure that the public against those with expired said spokesman Ray Dudley. "A understood and knew what the cards. lot of them will say 'I just requirement was and that we 
Since late 1993, the heard.' But actually, I think have given them ample time to Immigration and Naturalization they just waited until the last request replacement," said INS Service has asked those with minute." Deputy Commissioner Chris permanent resident alien per­Still, there was confusion Sale. mits issued before 1979 to about which document had ex­Of the 1.5 million people es­renew their green cards. pired. timated in 1993 to be holders of 
But word apparently failed to Kim Ogden, an INS the older cards, probably reach many. spokesman in Dallas, said many 200,000 to 300,000 have yet to "I heard nothing ... whatso­who showed up at that office replace their documents, Ms. 
ever, not until 6 a.m. on the worried that other immigration Sale said. radio," Larry Healy, a 67-year­documents were expiring. Before 1979, there was little old retired railroad worker And rumors were circulating consistency in issuing green 
originally from Ireland, said as of "mass deportations" for cards -a misnomer as the he waited in line at the Los holders of expired cards, he cards haven't been green since Angeles INS office. said. World War II and the latest 
"If I had known about it, I Lack of a new green card ones are pink. would've come one month, two doesn't change a person's sta­Often, the cards were months ago," Healy said. ''I'm tus as a legal resident. cranked out on typewritersretired. I have nothing else to But failure to obtain a new with the photograph affixed do." card could pose problems for with tape and then laminated. 
Standing next to Healy, 31-those who travel abroad and The latest version, dating to year-old South Korean native then try to return to the United 1990, require a thumb print Sunmi Choi said she only States, as well as for legal and a signature and can be learned of the deadline when immigrants applying for ben-scanned by machine. 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• •••CONSIDERATIONS 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE 
STATIONS OF THE CROSS: 
OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
Every Friday at 7: 15 pm in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart They were both seniors. They had dated for almost two years. 
Graduation was looming. They both were interviewing for jobs. They felt that this relationship was special; they were serious about each 
Senior Retreat 1996
other. But they just weren't sure what the next step was. Should they look for jobs in the same city or should they test the relationship with 
Facing the Future with Hope
some distance? Should they get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and establish some career goals? 
Friday, March 22 (4:00PM) They came into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for some 
through Saturday, March 23 (6:00PM) information. Perhaps we had a compatibility test they might take to see 
Sign-up by tomorrow at the Campus Ministry Offices.
if they were truly meant for each other. Did we have any articles they 
Questions? Call631-7800 or 631-5056
might read? Did we have any advice on what they should do? 
This was a new twist. Though we had offered programs for engaged 




Lenten Retreat
couples for many years, we had not really thought about this category ofcouple. A program for the engaged would not be appropriate for this 
SpiritJUJI Livine in 11 SeculAr World 
couple. They were still exploring their relationship -the decision was 
Saturday, March 23 (5:30PM) through 
not yet made, and the decision might eventually be to not continue the 
Sunday, March 24 (3:00PM) 
relationship. 
Sign,up by tomorrow at the Campus Ministry Offices. 
Questions? Call631,7800 or 631,5056
After identifying their issues we put together a program and called it 
"What's the Future of this Relationship?" It includes presentations on the stages of relationships and decision-making. While we were able to avoid "compatibility tests", we did include a marriage expectations quiz. 

, ·~ -· ~ ~~:!nr 
There is time for answering questions and a lot of time for discussing 
Fridays'a·t 12:15 ... 1:00 p.m. 
answers with your partner. There is a discussion period for questions and a folder ofarticles for additional information and reflection. 
2nd Floor South Dining Hall 
If you are in a significant relationship perhaps you'd like to attend the 
FIFTH SUNDAY OF LENT 
program this semester. Weekend Presiders 
"What's the Future ofthis Relationship?" will take place Sunday, 
at Sacred Heart Basilica 
March 31. Pre-registration is required. Registration papers can be obtained in both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and 
Sat. March 23 5:00p.m Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. 
Badin Hall). Registration deadline is Thursday, March 28. The 
Sun. March 24 10:00 a.m. Rev. Thomas O'Meara, O.P. 
[Program is limited to 25 couples. There is no costfor the program. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David Schiedler, C.S.C. 
Ifyou have any questions, please call Chris Etzel, Sylvia or John 
Dillon 631-5242. 
Sunday Vespers Sun. March 24 7:15pm Sister Kathleen Beatty, S.S.J. 


Last blast of winter Board 
continued from page 1 

slams Midwest region 
find students' specific concerns 
in relation to multiculturalism.
Associated Press refuge in a coffee shop in down­
From these applications, the
town Indianapolis, where it was 
committee will choose three toThe last storm of winter still snowing this morning. 
four groups to present their
pummeled the Midwest yester­Up to 15 inches of snow fell 
concerns to the Board ofday with up to 15 inches of at Scottsburg, Ind., and 
Trustees.

snow and wind whistling at 57 Indianapolis got 11.3 inches 
"We're asking anyone whomph, stranding travelers in Tuesday, its heaviest one-day 
feels they represent some typesnowbound cars and leaving total all winter. 
of diversity to apply," Patrickmore than 200,000 customers The snow drifts were up to 6 said. " I think personal interac­without power. feet high on some rural roads tions and stories are much moreSchools were closed yester­in Kentucky, state police powerful than statistics alone." 
day from Michigan into reported."The roads that are 
In the past, the report has
Georgia. It was the first time all passable are slick and haz­
carried great weight with the
season that Detroit shut down ardous. Two-lane roads are Board, several times resulting in 
classes because of snow. down to one lane," said Jeff policy changes for the
Because of all the snow and Wardlow of the Indiana State University. After a 'Back toclosed schools, the National Police. 
Basics' report made by studentWeather Service in Indiana had Drifting snow stranded 73 government, which concerned
to postpone yesterday's travelers along a highway 25 
the quality of the academic lifestatewide tornado drill. It was miles west of Indianapolis, said 
at Notre Dame, the trustees
reset for Thursday. Cindy Birch, a dispatcher with moved to lower class sizes asThe storm that began the Hendricks County Sheriffs well as to establish the John A.
Tuesday was blamed for nine Department.traffie deaths: two in Indiana, one in Michigan, two in West Virginia and four in Kentucky. 
And whilfl deep drifts blocked Happy 21st Birthday fire trucks and ambulances, 
Chrissy. Hope your

fire killed a 2-year-old girl at 
'"golden" birthday

Woodburn, Ky. ller parents and 1-yr,ar-old sister were hos­is very special. May pitalized in critical condition. the Lord's blessingsWoodburn Volunteer Assistant 
bring you much happine

Fire Chief Garland Richardson 
and success in the

said he didn't know if Savannah Akins could have coming year. been saved if rescuers had been able to reach her home sooner late Tuesday. 
Spring officially began yester­day at 3:03 a.m. EST, the ver­much love, nal equinox or the time at which the sun was directly over Dad, Mom, Guy &Bill. the equator. 
Some growled. "It's just been a lousy winter," Connie Smith said Tuesday while taking 
FLOWERS Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday
DELIVERED 
Cakes, Fruit Baskets,
~7 DAYS~ 

Plush Animals and Gifts 




~asy tatGh 

ctocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT 
51400 US 31 North Phone Answered South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
Kaneb Center for Undergraduate Teaching. 
"The Trustees are very inter­ested in what students have to say and can change policy as a result," Patrick said . "We hope students see this and want to take advantage of it." 
Student government will ac­cept applications from student organizations and individuals until March 29 and will announce the groups chosen to speak on April 2. 
The report will be made to the Board of Trustees on May 2 or 3. 
277-1291 
or 1·800·328-0206 

-----~----­
Thursday, March 21, 19%

page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
RHA 
continued from page 1 
we need to put that behind us and continue working in a pos­itive manner. 
"We hope to have strong communication and a lot more interaction with residence life, and continue open communi­cation with the hall councils." 
Voting takes place today from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m.; 11 a.m. to 1 p.m.; and 4:30 p.m. to 7 
p.m. in the dining hall. 

for: 
Thursday, March 21 • 7-8:30 pm 
Living the Social Teachings of the Church 
What are the social teachings of the Church? How do we make them a part of our lives as Catholics? We hear and see a lot about social action; what does it mean in our daily experience? Rev. J. Bryan Hehir will reflect with us on the role service can play in our lives and how each of us can better respond to the message of the Gospel. 
Panel Members 
Rev. ). Bryan Hehir, Professor, Harvard Divinity School, formerly served in Washington, DC at the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops 
Music Ministers 
Pangborn Hall Choir 

The Assoclla•alon of Colleae Unllons-lnternatllonal Reallonal Conference occurrllna on the llotre Dame campus lin llowember 1997 sponsored by the OHIIce of Student Actllwlltlles 
Rules and Regulations 
• 
Must contain and maintain the theme "Discover Gold" 

• 
Other pertinent information: ACU-1 Region 9 Conference November 7-9 1997 University of Notre Dame 

• 
The design must be two·dimensional 

• 
Any medium may be used, i.e. watercolor, colored pencil, charcoal, etc. 

• 
The design should be in color. 

• 
The des!gn must be contained within a 8 1/2 XII inch piece of paper. 

• 
The des1gn must be adaptable for use in various formats, i.e. T-shirts, stationary, signs, promotional items, etc. 

• 
Deadline for all entries is 3:00 PM on April 4, 1996, at the Student Activities Office. 

• 
The selected logo design will become the property of ACU-1 and the University of Notre Dame. 



More information is available from the Office of Student Activities, 315 LaFortune Student Center.
Sunday, March 24 • 7-8:30 pm 
How Do I Get Involved in Service? 
There are many service organizations in the South Bend area. A panel of members from our Notre Dame community, devoted to lives of service and prayer, will share with us how they answer the call to service in their own lives. Come listen to our panel share their experiences of how enriching service can be. 
Panel Members 
Isaac Duncan, La Coso de Amistad Colleen Knight, Mexico Seminar john MacLeod, Head Basketball Coach Karen Schulte, Dismas House 
Music Ministers 
The Campus Mariachi Band 


EACH SESSION WILL INCLUDE: AN EXPERIENCE OF PRAYER • PRESENTATION BY SPEAKER OR PANEl • REFRESHMENTS 
MARCH 21 I 24, 1996 • CHAPEL OF THE HOLY 

Notre Dame ub 
CROSS • KEENAN-STANFORD HALL, 7-8:30 PM 

SPRING CONCERT 
STUDENTS ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND ALL THREE (Z\MPUS Friday, March 22 8:00 p.m. Washington Hall 
AD proceeds benefit Mandy Abdo Fund 'Tickets on sale att/1e LaFortune Box Office and at the door
SESSIONS OR AS MANY OF THE THREE AS THEY CAN. 
MINISTRY 

Thursday, March 21, 1996 The Observer • BUDGET PLAN page 7 
-------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~==~~~~----------------------------------------~~~ 
GOP leaders, Clinton to talk budget balancing 
R bl•
epU leans make efforf 
· 

t0 COmprOmlSe 
By DAVE SKIDMORE 
AssodatcJ Press 
WASIIINGTON 

l!epublican congressional leaders went to the White Jloustl to meet with President Clinton today in what the administration said could be the start of a last-ditch effort to 
compromise on a balanced bud­gill. The GOP lawmakers re­spondnd to an invitation from 
Clinton for discussions just one line-item veto, regulatory re­dbatlydgaeftt.er he unveiled his 1997 form for small business and 
higher benefits for working 

On their way to the White Social Security recipients to House, Senate Majority Leader must-pass debt-limit extension Bob Dole, H-Kan., House legislation. Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga., "Hopefully, we can do some and House Majority Leader business," said Dole, who Hichard Armey, H-Texas, said Tuesday night clinched the GOP they also wanted to talk to Clin-presidential nomination. ton about other items that re-The leaders also said they main hung up between want to avoid a new federal Congress and the president. shutdown this weekend, when They include welfare reform, temporary spending authority overhauling immigration laws, for many agencies expires. a product liability bill and Congress and the president are spending for the District of trying to complete a compro-
Columbia. mise bill that will finance the 
The GOP leaders said they programs for the remaining six also wanted to talk to Clinton months of fiscal 1996. about possibly attaching the "The three of us will make 
the case we ought to keep the 

..
~~!1111••••1111!11!1!1•••••..,•••-,~-.. government open," said Gin-
what wiII you do after 
g,::it. """'..;d,,. mak;ng 
the rounds of television net­
• f 
work news shows, said today the talks may be the last
gradUatlon 
• 
chance this year for both par­ties to reach a budget compro­mise. 
"We have been through the

Why not help us change lives? 
Republican primary season. There is a small window of op­

We care for young children who are 
portunity to try to work to­gether for the nation," White

abused, neglected, or HIV+. You can help. 
House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta said on Fox morning news. 
"There's a window of oppor­tunity here where we can really get some work done," White House spokesman Mike Me-

ERASMUS BOOKS
P.O. Box 66581 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books



Houston, 1X 77226-6581 
•25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock

Voice (713)529-0639 
•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small



Fax (713)529-9179 
Open noon to six




casa 
Tuesday through Sunday 

de esperanza 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 

Applications accepted year 'round. 

&'\·< BUDGET '97
\:il 
President Clinton and the Congressional Budget Office have differing views on how to balance the budget. What each side forecasts: 100 Estimates In billions of dollars 44 I 
0 
-100 


·200 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 '--------------------·---··-------' 
Curry told reporters. 

"It's not going to be open very long. It certainly will be closed if we all begin campaign­ing by 6 o'clock tonight, so we hope we don't end up in that position. 
For his part, Clinton used the release of his election-year budget earlier Tuesday to tell Republicans once again that they could strike a balanced­budget deal if only they would accept his smaller tax-cut pro­posal and less-severe savings in Medicare, Medicaid, education, environmental protection and other Democratic priorities. 
"We must seize the opportu­nity we now have to give the American people a moment of real bipartisan achievement," Clinton said. 
However, Gingrich, recalling the protracted budget stale­mate of the past year that pro­duced two partial government shutdowns, said, "We passed a balanced budget; Clinton vetoed it. ... Who's he kidding?" 
Even as the president was outlining his 2,196-page, $1.64 trillion 1997 spending blue­print, the Senate was struggling Tuesday to bring the ugly, months-long brawl over the 1996 budget to a close. 
It passed, 79-21, legislation 
AP 
providing $166 billion to oper­ate dozens of agencies and de­partments through the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30. A week and a half ago, the House passed a much more austere version. 
Now, if they are to avoid an­other shutdown, lawmakers from both chambers must iron out a compromise that Clinton won't veto. 
That likely won't be done until next week and, in the meantime, GOP leaders plan to send Clinton a stopgap spend­ing bill keeping the government running through March 28. 
Senate Democrats, supported by moderate Hepublieans, suc­ceeded in adding more than $3 billion -not in the !louse bill -for environmental protec­tion, education and job-train­ing. 
The White I louse publidy ig­nored the Senate action and instead focused on the presi­dent's 1997 budget that claims to eliminate annual deficits by 2001 or 2002, depending on whether the administration's economic projection or the more pessimistic Congressional Budget Office forecast is usnd. 
Like Hepublicans, Clinton of­fers a tax cut, though his, at roughly $100 billion, is about half the size of the GOP's. 

Room/Board/Stipend/Health Insurance. 
Lewis Hall 
CPR/First Aid certification and training provided. 
and ND Pre-Professional Society present ... 
John M. 
SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY OFFERS 

Templeton, M.D. 
• Unmatched academic programs 
Professor of Pediatric Surgery, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine
• 
Internships with world-class firms 

• 
Business courses in three countries 


Trauma Program Director, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia 
• Generous grants and scholarships 
Speaking on the 
• Placement in foreign universities 

· Management of
• Instruction in English or host-country language 

Conjoined Twins 
ITALY • ENGLAND • FRANCE 
Thursday, March 21, 1996 
HONG KONG • SPAIN • ZIMBABWE 
7:00pm Lewis Hall Party Room 
Syracuse University Study Abroad 119 Euclid Avenue • Syracuse, NY 13244-4170 
• Refreshments will be served •
1-800-235-3472 • DIPA@suadmin.syr.edu 

_,-------~-----~---. ___,------­
page 8 The Observer ·NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 21, 1996 
Court: 1990 census can stand 
By LAURIE ASSEO 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Supreme Court upheld the 1990 census results, rejecting a bid by local gov­ernments to force an adjust­ment to make up for an admitted undercount of minorities yesterday. 
The secretary of commerce had the discretion to decide not to adjust the census results, the justices said in unanimously rejecting a challenge by New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago and other local governments. 
Changing the 1990 census would have stripped Wisconsin of one member of the House, transferring the seat to California. 
"We hold that the secre­tary's decision was well with­in the constitutional bounds of discretion over the conduct of the census provided to the federal government," Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote for the court. 
"In 1990, the Census Bureau made an extraordi­nary effort to conduct an accurate enumeration, and was successful in counting 
98.4 percent of the popula­tion," the chief justice wrote. 
Rehnquist said those who challenged the census results "have not argued that the secretary's decision not to adjust was based upon an intent to discriminate on the basis of race." 
"Indeed, in light of the gov­ernment's extraordinary efforts to include traditional­ly undercounted minorities in the 1990 census," Rehnquist wrote, those who sought an adjustment "would have had a tough row to hoe had they set out to prove intentional discrimi­nation by the secretary." 
New York City Corporation Counsel Paul Crotty said he is disappointed in the deci­sion. He contended census officials' recommendation to adjust the 1990 count to make up for a minority undPrcount was overridden for political reasons by the Republican secretary of com­merce, Robert Mosbacher. 
If the census had been 
adjusted, Crotty said, New 
York City would have been 
entitled to additional tens of 
millions of dollars in govern­
ment aid. 
But he said he generally is satisfied with the Census Bureau's announced plans to find and count more minori­ties in the 2000 census. 
Clinton to testify by videotape in trial 
By CHUCK BARTELS 
Associated Press 

LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
A federal judge today said President Clinton could testify in a Whitewater-related case by videotape because traveling to Little Rock would be too much of a burden. 
But he won't get the luxury of get­ting ques­tions submit­ted in ad­vance. 

U.S. District Judge George Howard Jr. denied motions by defense lawyers for James and Susan McDougal to compel Clinton to testify in person at their conspiracy and fraud trial. 
The judge will preside over the questioning by video con­ferencing and rule on ob­jections as they come up. He also will edit the videotape if lawyers cannot agree on what is pertinent for jurors to hear. 
Rejecting Clinton's request to get the questions in advance, Howard said lawyers can ask the president whatever they like about allegations raised during the trial. He said the only reason a president might deserve such special treatment would be if national security was involved. 
"They concern matters from prior to his presidency, so mat­ters of national security will not be concerned," Howard said. Clinton had argued that the process would go more easily if 

he got the questions in ad­vance. 
·McDougal, his ex-wife Susan and Gov. Jim Guy Tucker are accused of arranging nearly $3 million in fraudulent loans from McDougals' Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan and David Hale's Capital Management Services Inc. 
Hale is the government's chief witness and claims Clinton pressured him to loan Susan McDougal $300,000. Clinton has called the accusation "a bunch of bull." The McDougals say only Clinton can set the story straight. 
Howard said ordering Clinton to travel to Arkansas "would be unduly burdensome to the pres­ident in the performance of his official duties." 
Clinton personal attorney David Kendall could not be immediately reached for com­ment, nor could White House attorneys. 
.The White House and Justice Department asked Howard to let Clinton testify on his own terms. 
The videotape will be made in private and the original tape will not be released. Howard said he would unseal only the portion of the videotaped depo­sition that eventually is played before jurors. 
Howard directed lawyers for the prosecution, defense and Clinton to agree on a date and time for the deposition. If they cannot agree on a date, Howard will set one, the order said. 
The judge said the videotape will be made after Hale testi­fies. Hale has pleaded guilty to 


A Party to Honor Every Child's Favorite Friend, 


~Franklirr~ 
This loveable, childlike turtle ha~ captured the hearts of thousands of children! Franklin stories are also treasured by parents and teachers, who find them a gentle and entertaining way to help kids cope with common childhood dilemmas. An international success, Franklin books are available in seven languages to children in nine countries. 
"Franklin fans everywhere are Invited tojoin us for a fun-filled reading to celebrate the charming 
y turtle-hero! The Franklin reading will be held on:" 
Saturday MARCH 23rd 
10:00 a.m. 
Notre Dame Bookstore Book Department 

be reading about Franklin's adventures, doing fun-filled activities and more! 
BE A f'ART OF PLANNING YOUR JF'W!!! APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
1997 IPw EXECUTIVE COMMIDEE!!! OON'f MISS OU11!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5PM MARCH 29 
GOP appears to soften demand on Senate inquiry 
By MARCY GORDON 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Senate Republicans appear to be softening their demand that the chamber's Whitewater investigation be extended at least until the middle of July. But the Democrats rebuffed the GOP leader's new suggestion to end it a month earlier. 
The partisan dispute has dragged on for weeks. Democrats want a quicker end to the special committee's in­quiry, which began last July with a mandate that expired on Feb. 29. 
· Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, interviewed Tuesday night on ABC News' "Nightline," said he believes the investigation should be wrapped up "fairly soon." 
"I think by mid-June," said Dole, the 'GOP presidential front-runner. ''I think we can come to some agreement.... (We can) try to get an agree· ment to end it by June 15." 
Dole's Democratic counter­part. Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., told re­porters today, "We've been talking but so far there is no resolution." He said Dole's June 15 proposal had not been formally presented to the Democrats. 
"We're prepared to find ways with which to end this in a meaningful way by the end of May, but we will not go beyond the end of May. That's long enough," Daschle said. 
For three days last week, the Republicans fell short of the 60 votes they need to end debate and to proceed to a vote on extending indefinitely the Senate Whitewater Committee's authority. 
The Republicans hold a 53­47 majority in the Senate. 
Democrats have rejected as unreasonable a GOP compro­mise offer to end the investiga­tion by mid-July, before major party presidential nominating conventions begin in August. In turn, they suggested a com­promise of a five-week exten­sion and an additional $185,000. 
The original GOP plan was for an open-ended extension and $600,000 more to spend. 
fraud and is to be sentenced cutors, said she wrote checks to Monday. The judge's order was pay off McDougal's personal released just before a former American Express bill and for Madison employee returned to renovations to his home. The the stand in the trial, which be­money came from an account gan March 4. set up to pay construction bills 
Lisa Aunspaugh Thompson, for various Madison properties, under questioning from prose-she said. 
Don't Let Your Spring Break Fun Stop! 

Come See Showboat! 
Enjoy the play and two hours to shop and 
dine in Chicago for only 25 bucks. 
Sponsored by the class of 1996. 
Hurry while tickets 
last. 

Tickets are on sale NOW at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Bus Leaves at 4:30PM from Stepan Center. 
Come see the Chicago musical now on tour! 
The Kiltarton Rood Ensemble • · presents 1J} Lt)e---­
"A rapturous weave of irresistable

d e e p
sounds of Irish music ... conjuring a

he. 
spiri'•'C,S'"'s.•., ... 

~oy, Mor<h 23 ot 8P.M. 

CADRe -· 
Tickets: $7(Students), Sl4(Adults) on sale at the Saint Mary's College box office, O'laughlin Auditorium, 9-S, Mon.-Fri. Visa, Discover, MasterCard: 2\9/284-4626 

'J"hursday, March 21, 1996 
The Observer • ELECTION NEWS page 9 
Dole to make Senate his bully pulpit Independent 
By MIKE FEINSILBER 
Associated Press 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole says his quick wrap-up of the GOP presidential nomina­tion shows he offers "the right agenda for the next 

"scary." Dole 
What looms is the selection of a running mate -a delicate matter in a divided party -and a renewed threat of a Ross Perot third-party candidacy. 
Solid victories in four Mid­western states on Tuesday, coming exactly a month after a humiliating loss to commenta­tor Pat Buchanan in New Hampshire, nailed down the party's nomination for the 72­year-old Dole. 
He had first sought it 16 years ago. "The moral of the story is if 
293-0111 

1333 S. Nappanee St. Elkhart, IN 46516 
you ... don't give up too easily, you can still make it," Dole said in an interview broadcast today on "CBS This Morning." 
"It's scary in the sense that you want to be sure you can do it," he added. ''I'm convinced I can." 
With Buchanan reduced to nuisance status, Dole is plan­ning to make the Senate his bully pulpit -and is also plan­ning to give himself a week off sometime soon in the Florida sunshine. 

But for now ''I'm going to be a full-time senator," Dole said, in line with his strategy of using his Republican leadership posi­tion to carry the fight to Presi­dent Clinton. 
Both of the November rivals are leaders within the govern­ment, so each is able to under­cut -or cooperate with -the other. intertwining even more than usual the business of gov­ernment with the requirements of politics. 
Michigan ~ 
RESULTS 

Unofficial returns with 100 percent of precincts reporting:. 
Bob DOLE  
Pat BUCHANAN  
Steve FORBES.,,  
~~·---------------­ 5%  
Alan KEYES  
J______  3%  
Lamar ALEXANDER  
1%  
Phil GRAMM  
0%  
Bob DORNAN  
0%  
Richard LUGAR  
0%  
Morry TAYLOR  
0%  
As of 5:00a.m. EST  
...  

appy B~ DAY Scrappy! 
Get in where 
you fit in on 




your21st 

-B 
party wants Buchanan 
By JAY JORDEN 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
With the GOP presidential nomination out of reach for Pat Buchanan, an independent party today began a nation­wide effort to get on the 
November ballot and invited the com­mentator to top its tick­et. 
While in the past,

Buchanan Buchanan 
has told the 
U.S. Taxpayers Party that he prefers to run as a Republican. the candidate's Dallas-Fort Worth chairman called it an option in continuing his cam­paign. 
"The Taxpayers Party will try to get on in 50 states. If that happens, Mr. Buchanan will have to consider some­thing and he will consider it strongly," said Tom Staley, North Texas chairman for Buchanan. 
"It would be hard to turn down ... a party who likes and wants you." 
Meanwhile, Buchanan con­tinued to campaign today in California for next week's pri­mary even after Dole earned enough delegates to secure the GOP nomination. 
The party wants to be quali­fied on the ballot in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. 


Grant • Cutter and Buck • AXIS SPEEDO • IZOD • ENRO 

"We learn to build houses by building houses; to play the harp by playing the harp; to be just by doing just acts. " 
-Aristotle 
Congratulations and thanks to the over 120 participants in 
The Appalachia Seminar The Environmental Seminar 
L'Arche Seminar Washington Seminar 
who represented the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College during Spring Break in service and experiential learning at fourteen sites across the nation. 
Mary Jo (MJ) Adams Leslie S. Field 
Alex T. Andreichuk Jessica A. Fiscus 
Heather L. Daugheny Matthew Griffin Nick Becker Kay Bokowy Tricia A. HueyMichelle Frasier SaraGuenin
Gillian Brady Rebecca Fink 
Bradley Harmon Jameson M. Wetmore Maureen Kramlich 
Leigh Anne Hutchinson Gordon Braun Sean Frey Amy Laws Daniel Pauze Kelly Williams Lisa Lundgren 
limboHipp Mark Massoud
Dina Brick Karen Fronduti Laura Lechman Jonathan B. Polking Nathan Wills John McLeod 
Ryan Murphy Kathy Motyka 
Erin E. Brophy Stacey Gilk TomLoumeau Andrea Ray 
Tara Naughton Marcus Wolnitzck Clare Murphy 
Mary T. PenceStephButler Michael J. Gilleece Carol Joy Madden Jill E. Rinella Jon Wonn Monica Seidel Lauren Stein Ronan Byrne John Gordon Meghan Mahoney Lauren J. Roscoe Mary Stephens 
Kristina Campbell Sarah Granger Debbie Malloy Tiffany Rubush 
Amanda Ahlstrand Rupen Aguila Alben Vasquez 
Brandon M. Dalziel Jeannine Haener Brian R. Mason Kristin Ruethling 
Kristin Atworth GiaoDuong Alexander Andreichuk Theresa Vithayathil Suzanne Decker Todd Hanson Julie E. Maund J. Greg Seckinger 
Holly Arends Deborah Hellnruth Suzanne Barsotti Casey Detorie Carissa Hernandez Michael McCann Sarah Semlow 
lim Ashenfelter MalaikaKim Katherine N. Beirne Julie Dinolfo Mrujorie H1ll Christine McConaghy Christopher Sikora 
Jennifer Augustine Cristin L'Esperance Amanda Briggs Moira Donahoe BrianHipp Owen J. McCuen Kenneth E. Stalzer 
Ann Barnet Lemis Mufti Kelly Brooks Monica Eggleston Deborah Irwin Elizabeth P. Merritt Jon Stone 
Stephen Bastasch Sean P. Nohelty Butch Cabreros TomR. Fatur Padmaja Itikala Nicole Minnick Darren Strounan 
Jacob H. Bauer Beth Padera P. Brent Del Vecchio 
Jill E. Feller Michelle Janko Kelly Moore Natalia Tafur 
Jonathan W. Bazeley Laura Schreeg Heather Dominique Jeffrey Fersch Karin L. Kane Keira O'Connor Nicole Till 
Karen Bell Michelle Kippes Sean J. O'Reilly Allison Vogt Andrea Bieberich 
Matt O'Shaughnessy Jeffrey Ward 
__j 

page 10 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 21, 1996 
Germany debates limits on grants for citizenship 
By PAUL GEITNER 
Associated Press 
BERLIN 

Germany is struggling with record unemployment, a stag­nant economy and a ballooning federal deficit. 
So why, the leader of the political opposition asks, should the country grant automatic citizenship -and all the wel­fare benefits that entails -to more than 200,000 immigrants from the former Soviet Union each year, just because they come from German stock? 
The question, posed last month by Social Democratic Party chairman Oskar La­fontaine, unleashed a tempest of criticism. illustrating the sensitivity of the subject of immigration in Germany, where a surge of anti-foreigner violence that followed unifica­tion in 1990 has only recently subsided. 
Critics from across the politi­cal spectrum accuse Lafontaine of resorting to demagoguery in the hope of winning votes in Sunday's local elections in three important states. A strong showing by the liberal Social Democrats could endan­ger Chancellor Helmut Kohl's conservative coalition in parlia­ment. 
Lafontaine insists he's only facing facts. 
With a jobless rate of more than 11 percent, "we just can't bring more and more workers to Germany," he said in a newspaper interview last week. 
A recent poll found 70 per­cent of Germans supported La­fontaine's call to limit the flow of "Aussiedler," ethnic German immigrants from the former Soviet bloc. 
The German-born Empress Catherine the Great invited German farmers and crafts­people to Russia in 1762 to help modernize the country, granting them land, religious freedom and other special privileges. 
During World War II, Stalin ordered all ethnic Germans in the lower Volga region de­ported to Siberia and Central Asia as potential traitors. Thousands died in labor camps or coal mines. 
Because of that persecution, West Germany's postwar con­stitution included the right to au tom a tic citizenship for Aussiedler. 
"We have a responsibility to the people who had to suffer because they were German," said Horst Waffenschmidt, the federal secretary responsible 
Ws NOT TOO LATE 
CPA 
CANDIDATES 
No Lengthy Classes No High CPA Review Tuitions Renowned Products 
at a Great Price CPA Review Books &Software To order call: 
1-800-CPA-3511 
DAUBERMAN 
CHAYKIN 
for Aussiedler affairs. 

Most, however, were trapped behind the Iron Curtain. Until the late 1980s, only about 20,000 or 30,000 a year actu­ally made the trip, usually after West Germany paid a "ran­som" to the Soviet-bloc govern­ments. 
But as communism crumbled, the numbers jumped. More than 2 million have arrived since 1988, most from the for­mer Soviet Union. 
The government estimates another 2.2 million are eligible to come. 
Pia Hermann, 71, and her 74-year-old sister, Julia Jauf­mann, arrived in 1994 from Kazakstan, where Hermann says ethnic Germans had to hide their language and culture and do jobs no one else want­ed. 
Standing next to their bunk beds in a tiny room at a Red Cross shelter in eastern Berlin, the two women who had never before set foot on German soil said in old-fashioned German that they finally feel at home. 
"We never felt like Kazaks," Jaufmann said. "We were German." 
Earthquake kills 24 in China 
By CHARLENE FU 
fujsociated Press 
BEIJING 
A powerful earthquake has leveled remote towns in north­western China, killing at least 24 people -most of them young children -and leaving 10,000 homeless. 
The magnitude 6.9 earth­quake late Tuesday struck set­tlements along the centuries­old trade route known as the Silk Road in China's Xinjiang region. 
The quake and 68 af­tershocks of up to magnitude 
5.1 caused 50,000 buildings to collapse and cracked a dike, government seismologists said Wednesday. At least 78 people were injured, nine of them se­riously. 
Casualty reports, however, were incomplete due to disrupt­ed communications with the hardest hit area, Jiashi county. B;y late Wednesday afternoon, only one village in the county had reported in. 
Jiashi is about 43 miles east of Kashgar, an ancient bazaar town. 
The earthquake was centered close to Artux, 15 miles north ofKashgar. 

Many people were at home when the quake struck at 11 
p.m. (10 a.m. EST). 

Seventeen of those killed were children under the age of eight, said Bake Aji, director of the Kashgar Seismology Bureau. 
"They were home watching television and couldn't get out fast enough," Bake said.Most houses in the region are one­story dwellings made of baked mud bricks and topped by wooden beams and mud that 

• AP 

could cause heavy casualties if they collapsed. 
Dear Shari, 

Loving wishes on your 21st birthday!! May you always enjoy Happiness, Success in All you do and Life's Contentment!! 
Love, Mom 
DO NOT BE ALARMED. HE WILL NOT SCARE YOU. ALL YOU HAVE TO DOISSEE AN 

ALL WILL BE WELL. JUST WATCH IT. 
YES, IS GOING TO BE AT CUSHING F .. i. &Sat 8/10:30p. AND Sunda Ren~.en~.be.., 
see it AND NO ONE WILL GET HURT. GOT IT? GOOD. ~ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

The University of Notre Dame is pleased to announce that 
Professor Naomi Meara 
during ProfessorJohn Borkowski's academic leave this spring semester. 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 21, 1996 page 11 

• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Pessimism darkens American society 
'people skills' 
Aeadnrnics wnre made for man, not man for academics. 
This variation of Jesus' proclamation ("The Law was made for man ... ") senms fitting, in light of where we are and what wt~ am doing -studying, researehing and writing. It is a stu­dent's task to conform to what the instmetors expect (a 30­pagn rnport, a enrtain typP of projPct, footnotes done "just so"). 
Still, unless we plan a earenr in teaching or research, does 
knowledge of such 
details have any ben­
efit beyond college? 
Even more important: 
Jull·e Ferraro 
does this knowledge
do anything to 
enhance our lives as 
God's children? 

I suppose the point 
to stress in all this is 
that a lot of what takns place on this campus is not "real life", and students shouldn't get the impression that it is. The employers with whom a young person hires on after graduation will rarely cheek grammar or spelling (many executives can't spell them­st~lves), and thny won't really care if someone can find their way around a library. They will be more interested in "people skills" because, unless the office is a windowless room in the bottommost basement, business involves dealing with people evnry stt~p of the way. 
This is where personal faith comes in. Whether one is an aemuntant, a lawyer, a biologist or a diplomat, the ability to see others as equals-all God's children -is vital. The Golden Hule,"I>o unto others... " applies to everyone of all religions. No matter if a person has a college degree, or what their racial or ethnic origins are, il has no bearing in business or at a social gathering. The ultimate value placed on any person is that he or she is created in the image of God, and that same God loves each individual unconditionally. 
We should do likewise. If anything, that is what college offers the students a chance to learn. By bringing together pt~ople from around the world, of all races and faiths, there are countless opportunities to face one's own prejudices or fflars. This is where the emphasis of college should be. 
So, don't let the academics get you down. Most of what is crammed into the textbooks, then crammed into the students' bruins will be forgotten and unused after the diploma is in hand. What will be useful is how we've learned to relate to others, whieh -above wealth and power -is what "success" is all about. 
Julie Ferraro runs every other Wednesday. 
Dear Editor: stances, as well as at voters' mism, responsibility, and eco­
Christiane Likely has done it aptness to fall prey to such nomic growth, not the party of again. While she surely desires demagoguery. It is unfortunate Buchanan. Opposition to the racial tolerance and accep­that a few oversensitive leaders high taxes and crime her col­tance, her writings unfortu­were able to incite the Iatino umn complains about have nately preach pessimism and community into believing this always been firm planks in the division. In her most recent column to be racist. Hepublican platform. article ("Hepublicans whimper Furthermore, Pat Buchanan Worst of all, Likely's column and whine," March 6) she des­is not the Republican party and drips with pessimism. While I perately attempts to tie the de­has in fact been repudiated not agree that many parts of our plorable actions of "one sicko only by the vast majority ·of He­society are sick, I believe it is Neo-nazi" to the "whole Hepub­publican voters in the nation slowly but surely getting better. lican Party". That connection but also by such prominent Few would deny the wrongs cortainly does not exist. party leaders as Newt Gingrich, committed by the United States 
Also, Likely's examples of Bob Dole, William Bennett, over its history, but despite hate and ignorance are knee­Colin Powell, and William F. these, it is hard to forget the deep in false assumptions. Buckley Jr. Pat Buchanan is a advantages of living in the First of all, Chicago Tribune populist, not a conservative, United States. Pessimism only columnist Mike Boyko's con­and disparages such conserva­maintains the status quo. troversial piece concerning Pat tive notions as free trade and Buchanan and Mexico was po­Wall Street. The Republican JIM SCHUELLER litical satire, intended to poke party is the party of Lincoln Junior fun at Buchanan's extremist and Reagan, the party of opti-Keonan Hall 
Violence strikes: Domers fear for classmates abroad 
Dear Editor: of the Israeli occupation of Palestinian land. 
I am writing in reaction to several of your They must always consider which bus to take, recent articles: an Inside Column, and a two­they can never travel alone, and they must avoid part series, both on the recent bombing of a any possible disturbances. London bus and its effect on NO students study­Despite the dangers of all these programs, ing there. Understandably, there is much con­though, the study abroad experience is in­cern for the safety of fellow Domers. valuable. Year after year students apply to study 
However, there are numerous other places in in Jerusalem although there is no guarantee the the world where NO has study programs. For program will be held until they board the plane example, ND and SMC students study in Japan, to Tel Aviv. During the intifadah (the Palestinian where deadly fumes were released in the busy uprising that began in 1987), and during the gulf Tokyo subways. NO has a program in Mexico War of the early 90's, no program was held City, where devastating earthquakes often occur. there. Those of us who are fortunate enough to In France there have been numerous dangerous study in Jerusalem would never trade in the strikes. Ironically, the London bombing occurred experience. around the same time as terrorist bombings in Whenever friends and fellow students are in Jerusalem, another NO study location. danger, like those in London, it is appropriate to 
As a participant in the NO Jerusalem program be concerned. However, it is also essential to be last spring, it is easy to imagine what the stu­aware of problems and situations in many other dents there are experiencing. The program is places all over the world. centered at Tantur Ecumenical institute whose wall is part of the imaginary border line between SARAH MCDONALD Israel and the West Bank. Every day students ND Jerusalem '95 witness and experience first hand consequences 
• DOONESBURY 
NEU, AC7VAUY, EVERYONe: 
tOOK7 AMERICAN, Al.&X, BUAUS8 AM&RICAN7 AR& 

FROM EVCRYWH&/?£ 1 M'ISUF, I alA$ 130/?N IN VI&TJ\t4M. 
" 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
VIETNAM ... 
OH, '3U!<E, RIGHT. 
I 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I'm holding out for the day when all the clouds have blown away." 
-PinkAoyd 


Abdul-Rauf· A Likely story 
Like most Observer readers, I enjoy Christiane Likely's "In My Neighborhood" columns a lot. You can't beat an angry victim for columnistic rhetoric, especially when it comes straight from the mean streets of Pasquerilla West. Now that Father Griffin is retired, she is probably my second-favorite Observer columnist. (Why she doesn't use a title playing off her last name is a mystery to me, 
but that's okay. Matt Apple 
God. rejected "The Fifth Column" as a Contrast this horseplay with a possible title for a Common honest man like Dennis Rodman. Sense feature. Oh well.) I bring Rodman doesn't want to play by the
Josh

up Likely for another reason. rules, either, but he hasn't wrapped In yesterday's column, she himself up in sacred scripture. For makes the case for the Denver him, the existential confrontation:
Ozersky \
Nuggets' Mahmoud Abdul Rauf he challenged the NBA's director of as being put upon by the operations like Job before the whirl­"eggheads" of the NBA offices. wind. "Suspend me, Rod Thorn. "I fully understand what the Suspend me." Now why couldn't Brother is going through," Likely Mahmoud-Rauf do likewise? His says, with sisterly solidarity. "It is very difficult to try decision was plainly a political one. Why not stand by to maintain your religious/spiritual ideologies when your political beliefs, instead of hiding in a religious they differ... [from! the popular or majority religious stance which you obviously don't take seriously enough systems." You know what? I don't find this surpris­to lose by? According to Hakeem Olajuwon, a Moslem ing. Mahmoud Abdui-Rauf and Christine Likely seem so devout he fasts during the regular season, there is to have exactly the same perspective on things. This is nothing in I~lamic theology, Wallace Fard notwith­easily explained. Here is the explanation. They are standing, that says that a Moslem shouldn't respect the both self-righteous, spoiled, adolescent bullies. customs of the country he lives in. I think Mahmoud 
I don't mind being harangued on account of my privi­Abdul-Rauf might have taken a page out of Rodman's leges, my real or imaginary complicity in historical vil­book. At least then you wouldn't look like such a hyp­lainies, or even the color of my skin. Even the naked ocrite when you do knuckle under. In America. we anti-semitism many American blacks express in pri­have free speech. but it is only "free" legally -not in vate (and occasionally in public) is understandable. the sense that it is without responsibility, or conse­They aren't the first, or the last, to get tricked that quences. It seems to me that only people in very shel­way. I had hoped that calling people "eggheads" went tered environments don't understand that. out with the fifties, but we live in an atavistic period . Which brings up another point. Where does But fine. Like Christine Likely, I appreciate the hon­esty of firebrands, even when it comes at little or no cost to themselves. (Mahmoud Abdul-Kauf, for his part, certainly got tired of confrontation when it began to cost him money). Malcolm X is the grea1 black fire­brand, but even the lesser men who succeeded him, like H. Rap Brown or Bobby Seale, knew how to make a point. "Violence is as American as apple pie," said Brown, at the height of his celebrity. 
Why then do Rauf and Likely find it so necessary to hide behind religious sanctimoniousness? Likely insists on quoting prayers from the Quran to us, as if the mere fact of holy writ justified the dubious position of the basketball player who wouldn't stand for the national anthem, and the columnist who feels reli­gions, except her own, are "man-made" and "confus­
ing," with Christianity "an insult" to 

• lETTER TO THE Emn:m 
Speaking of anthems, amendments, and millionaire Muslims ... 
Dear Editor: 
All is well in the world of hoops: Notre Dame has promising young talent; the eventual national champion may actual­ly be a team I like; the Big East is a Beast once again (Syracuse-my favorite team after NO-made it to the Sweet 16); and there's a new movie about the greatest hoops franchise ever-the Boston Celtics. I can't even root against the Knicks any more, since Jeff Van Gundy coached my high school class­mates in the mid-1980s. Over break however, every time I turned on the tv, radio or tried to read the paper, I was besieged by "Abdul-Hauf." 
The refusal of Denver Nuggets guard Mahmoud Abdui-Hauf to stand during the National Anthem would have been the most ridiculous spectacle of the past week, were it not for the gaggle of com­mentators falling all over themselves to defend Abdui-Hauf's "freedom of expression." Not only does the United States Constitution not protect this pur­ported "protest," Abdul-Rauf's almost instantaneous concession on the issue calls into serious question whether there was ever any "principle" involved at all. 
Calling the American flag a "symbol of oppression and tyranny," Abdui-Rauf initially stated that he would rather give up his NBA career than stand for the Star Spangled Banner. After the NBA announeed (on the night of March 12) his indefinite suspension without pay­which would have cost Abdui-Rauf $31,707 per game-it took the Nuggets guard less than 48 hours to decide that standing wasn't so bad after all. 
What is even more telling is that the Nuggets had no games scheduled on March 13 and 14-the days between the NBA's announcement of the suspension and Abdui-Raufs concessfon. In other words, after SL >era) months and 62 games of refusing to stand for the National Anthem, Abdul-Rauf caved almost as soon as his actions would have cost him anything; he did miss the Nuggets' game on March 12-the day the suspension was announced. 
The ridiculousness of the whole situa­tion does not result merely from the fact that it was a "protest;" this country has a long, proud history of-and indeed was founded on-protests and fights against injustice. What's ludicrous is the spectacle of this 27 -year-old criticizing the "oppression and tyranny" of the United States-a country which guaran­tees the world's most profound free­doms to those who protest against it and a country which enables Abdul-Rauf to make $2.6 million per year to play bas­ketball. While many black Americans continue to suffer injustice, the absurdi­ty of Abdul-Raufs protest is that its set­ting was the NBA, perhaps the world's most privileged collection of multi-mil­lionaires, most of whom are. black. 
Even given the absence of any princi­pled or intellectual underpinning, I can see why Abdui-Rauf may have engaged in such a charade. A convert's zeal is often the strongest (witness Saint Paul)-Abdul-Rauf converted to Islam in 1991 and changed his name two years later. Perhaps the Nation of Islam's Louis Farrakhan preyed upon Abdul­Haufs faith and manipulated him into this embarrassingly simple-minded and transparent spectacle. What I can't understand is why many commentators insist on misrepresenting (or misunder­standing) the First Amendment. 
Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf come from, anyway? When he was Chris Jackson, it seemed to be America. So where does Christiane Likely come to write about "a nation and its flag"? I don't stand by the actions of the US at every moment in its history. but there's certainly no getting around the fact that it is my country and that I am a citizen of it. That much can be gleaned from my birth certificate. If I really wanted to reject the US, I suppose I would emigrate to Israel; just as honest black separatists from Marcus Garvey on down have advocated leaving America for Africa. Likely, for her part, doesn't seem to be going anywhere but Atlanta; and Rauf has modified his "spirituality" so as not to interfere with the ludicrously well-paying game that is his fortune. 
The thing that bothers so many people. I think, is that the Christiane Likelys of the world are so smug in their sense of victimhood. But they never have any time for specific reforms, because that involves hard, aggravating work, and generally requires you to sub­merge your sense of moral ascendency. It's a big buzz-kill to deal with the realities of American society. That's the appeal of the flat tax, anti-semitism, and, of course, that old standby, "my own spiritual growth and development." Like their mirror images, Pat Buchanan and Ralph Reed, Hauf and Likely advance no cause but themselves, and they don't even do a very good job of that, seeing as how they have pointlessly alienated themselves from society. 
And it is their society: if Mahmoud Abdui-Hauf, Christine Likely, or Louis Farrakhan ever do one tenth of the good work of any $20,000 a year welfare case­worker, or city high-school teacher, or small-town public defender, they should get on their knees and thank Allah. In the meantime, they would all do well to get off their high horse and realize that, whether they spout scripture, "spiritual" buzzwords, or PC jar­gon, it all amounts to self-promotion in one way or another. 
Which really is as American as apple pie. How could Rauf and Likely ever have doubted that they belong here? 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. His e­mail address is Joshua.A.Ozersky.l@nd.edu 

Broadly-speaking, the First Amendment protects freedom of expres­sion: religion, speech, press, assembly and petition. However, the First Amendment (and the Constitution itself) limits-with few exceptions-only gov­ernmental entities. In other words, the NBA's status as a "private" actor means that while the suspension may well have penalized Abdul-Raufs speech or reli­gion, nothing in the United States Constitution prevents the NBA, the Nuggets or any other private actor from so doing. Even the few Constitutional provisions enforceable against private actors (e.g., the 13th Amendment and parts of the 14th and 15th Amendments) are inapplicable here. Abdul-Raufs case is thus fatally nawed not only in terms of credibility and logic, it also has no Constitutional force. Perhaps that's why he gave up so easily. 
It is understandable that many sincere Muslims-in this country and else­where-are concerned that people like Abdui-Rauf and Farrakhan will be viewed by casual observers as typical adherents of Islam. The Houston Hockets' center Hakeem Olajuwan and other devout Muslims emphatically deny that Islam requires or even allows Abdui-Rauf's actions. Farrakhan-a charla~an and one of the most unrepen­tant and vile bigots in recent memory­recently flouted federal law by visiting terrorist nations without first notifying the U.S. State Department. In addition to Farrakhan's lengthy record of anti­Semitic and racist statements, the Nation of Islam teaches racial division, a doctrine not found in the more widely­accepted and long-standing faith of Islam. 
While we should welcome the sincere expression of religious and political beliefs, we must not be cowed-out of political correctness or any other influ­ence-into misrepresenting the Constitution. Having read Malcolm X's autobiography twice, I certainly have disagreements with him; yet I am impressed by his messages of self­reliance, self-restraint and respect for women. Muhammed Ali sacrificed the best years of his career rather than compromise what he saw as his reli­gious duty-not to serve in the United States military during the Vietnam War. 
Next time, before Abdui-Rauf or any­one else-of any religion-decides to create a public spectacle, perhaps he should study Muhammed Ali or Malcolm 
X. Then again, he could just read the Constitution. 
JOHN.T.REFERMAT Third-year law student 


,... I 
Thursday, March 21, 1996 
page 13 I 


SAINT ETIENNE Too Young To Die-Singles 1990-1995 
I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
;;· 
MIKE JOHNSON Year of Mondays 

Courtesy Attanttc Records 
STING 

courtesyA&MRecords 

• WVFI CORNER 
ARCHERS OF LOAF 
The Speed of Cattle 
~c~-tc-tc 
(out of five) 
T 
he Arc:hers of Loaf sound like no one else you've evflr lward. Tht)y an1 musical freaks, but in a good way. Lead singer Eric Bachmann strings his guitar like no other guitarist, and he has a very dis­tinctive voiee. Archers songs are typified by Bachmann's grave vocals with lyrics that walk a line line between the metaphorically beautiful and the nuHwingless. 'J'tw melody is backed up by an energetic bassist and a lead guitarist who makes sounds you n1wer thought would come from a guitar. 
The Speed of Callie is a eollection of re-recordings and Peel Sessions of previously released material, with one new song. Since many of the songs arc from eso· terie 7" mcords and compilations, they will bo new to all but thr. most die-hard of Archers fans. The songs span the four years the Archers have been around, and show thoir musical growth through that time. 
While some may call the Archers freaks, tho bottom line is that people like them. Despite their distinctive sounds, the Arctwrs appeal to the mainstream alterna­tive listener because of their ability to write infoctious pop songs that you'll be humming for days. 
-l1y /Jan Connolly, WlPI 
D
ark'! Yes. Dismal'! Yes. Depressing'! Yes. Good'! No doubt about it. Mike Johnson's second solo project, Year ofMondays, is definitely a success. 
Johnson, the bassist for alternative engineers Dinosaur Jr., shows his talent on this ten song compilation that skids along the bottom of the earth in content, but at the same time soars high in the sky with musical ingenuity. And musical talent is abundant on Year of Mondays as Johnson moves from bass to acoustic and electric guitars with great ease, clearly showing how his trademark guitar-istic bass playing developed. 
It is not, however, Johnson alone on this album. Instead, he invites close friends .I Mascis (singer/guitarist for Dinosaur Jr.) and Barrett Martin (drummer for Screaming Trees) to play along with him. Mascis ventures to play drums and Martin plays bass. Johnson also incorporates a string section as well as the backing vocals of Tiffany Anders on several tracks. 
Being in Dino Jr. is not an easy task, especially for someone who wants to explore their own creative side. As Johnson notes, "I never felt frustrated by Dino, but sometimes I just 
Mercury Falling 
T
here are many things that make Sting one of the preeminent songwriters of his generation. Among them are his unpredictability. Dream of the Blue Turtles was jazz-pop . ... Nothing Like the Sun was politically charged jazz­non-pop. Then came 1991's The Soul Cages. Written in the wake of great personal tragedy, as were many of Sting's greatest works, it is still the greatest album to not receive a Grammy. Then came Ten Summoner's Tales, a much lighter pop album that was happier than Cages and much less musi­cally fulfilling. There were a few masterworks, but it was evi­dent that the catharsis that was Cages was a one-time mas­terpiece. Sting's new album, Mercury Falling, shows that the sequel to Cages has yet to, and may never, appear. 
Sting is no longer "the brooding young man." At least, not always. "Valparaiso," a travelogue augmented by the Northumbrian pipes that colored Cages, is a hauntingly at­mospheric ballad. "I Was Brought to My Senses," a tale of love's discovery, is lyrically and musically evocative, just like "Fields of Gold." The album's lead track, "The Hounds of 
T
his compilation was released to encourage people to 
check out one of London's most loved yet not-as­
famous-as-they-deserve-to-be groups. It includes some of their best tracks; there can be fewer more joyous pop songs than "Pale Movie," and Sarah Cracknell's voice is a sublime presence throughout the album. However, the principal defect of this collection is that by definition it fails to include minor classics from two of their previous albums, So Tough and Tiger Bay. Instead of being a gem, it leaves the listener feeling something is missing. Including tracks such as "I Was Born On Christmas Day" and "Nothing Can Stop Us" hurts an other­wise a great compilation, and as with all collections, a certain continuity and coherence is lost. If one can put up with this, howevr.r, what remains is hugely enjoyable. 
As the tracks span five years, the maturing of Cracknell's voice can easily be traced. Her youth is evident on the earliest song, "Only Love Can Break Your Heart," as fine a piece of energ1~tic singing as one could hope to come across. Four years later in "Like a Motorway," her approach gains an 
I Bad Religion I 
The Gray Race 
A 
fter recording their break­through hardcore 

first LP, How Could Hell Be Any Worse? in the early eighties, Bad Religion decided to take a turn in direc­tion. Lead singer/honor student Greg Graffi, invested in some keyboards to further the band's success. After all, it worked for BowWowWow. Fortunately, guitarist Brett Guruwitz had the soul to call it quits in the stu­dio. The band dissolved, each member going back to their respective. universities, but that funky keyboard album, lnlo the Unknown, was released. Bad Heligion, a bastion of punk rock, is so embarrassed by the album that it's about as easy to find in stores as Alanis Morissette's first "Debbie Gibson of Canada" album. 
Obviously, Bad Heligion deCided to strap the instru~ ments back on. After live alburris for the indie label Epitaph, Brett Guruwitz hit theroadagain. Bad Heligion had just finished a major label debut for Atlantic. Apparently, Mr. Brett knows when to rethink those luxury cruise tickets for the USS Titanic. 
The Gray Race is by no means another Into the Unknown. Fret not young punkers, you'll find no synth jams here. However, The Gray Race is by no means fresh or inventive. The drum rhythms keep getting ever so slower on each successive album. Bobby Shayer may one day soon drop to the sub-Max Weinberg rhythm level. New guitarist Brian Baker seems to possess an itchy whammy-bar finger, as lengthy, noodling solos spoil several songs. It's hard to believe Baker grew up playing bass for the most influ­ential hardcore band ever, Minor Threat. However, 

(out of five) 

felt like I was treading water because I wouldn't use my time well enough." On Year ofMondays Johnson finds this freedom allowing him to do his own thing. This is not a Dinosaur Jr. album, despite the appearance of .I Mascis. It is a Mike Johnson album, demonstrated in the first track "Where Am I'!" where his voice rumbles in a deep baritone throughout. This Leonard Cohen sound-alike makes his songs unique from Dino Jr. with his voice, as his music sometimes resembles that of his day-job band. 
In all seriousness, Year of Mondays is not as depressing as it first seems. Songs such as "Circle" and "One Way Out" bring an upbeat, pleasant sound to the album. For those who enjoy longer jams, Johnson includes two ten minute-plus songs, "Overdrive" and "Eclipse." 
This is not a Dinosaur Jr. album, but it will appeal to the majority of Dino fans with its darker, heavier sound. 
-by Christian Stein 

(out of five) 

Winter," follows the same path. 
The rest of the album is not as memorable. Gratuitous horns combined with a mystifying taste for country kill songs like "All Four Seasons," which sounds like it was written in about ten minutes. "You Still Touch Me" is, lyrically, an update of "Every Breath You Take." Musically, it's totally disposable. And then there's "La Belle Dame Sans Hegrets." It's won­derful that Sting can write nightclubby faux-Latin music and all-French lyrics, but that doesn't mean he should. 
The country flavor works on "I Hung My Head," mostly be­cause of the song's odd time signature. Make no mistake about it, on his worst day, Sting would not write "Only Wanna Be With You." But the poetry, the emotion, the pure feeling of Cages reflects Sting at his songwriting apex. Mercury Falling shows Sting for what he is-a happily married, enormously successful middle-aged pop star. Personally, that's great for him. Musically and lyrically, it sounds as though Sting's muse has flown...for now. 
-by Kevin Dolan 
(out of five) 

interesting new subtlety and admirable degree of restraint. This latter track is one of the highlights of the album; a work encompassing the sadness of loving and losing set to a dynam­ic backing overlaid by lush vocals. 
Saint Etienne are one of those groups who gleefully provide many memorable and quotable lines; from the mournful "she said her life was like a motorway-dull, gray and long," and the intimate "he shows dreams like a movie, she's the softness of cinema seats," to the bizarrely cryptic "he said her skin smelled just like pebbles." These ensure that whatever the status of the group, they will be remembered for a long time. 
We are left with an album that could have been stunning but is merely very good. If classic and subtle English pop music is to your taste, then this compilation will serve as a useful introduction. The group's previous works are all of exceptional quality, and Too Young To Die represents an ade­quate and rewarding ensemble of them. 
-by Julian Elliott 
~~-tc 

(out of five) 
Baker is reluctant to discuss his days in the eighties glam hair-metal band, Junkyard, when he wrote rocking 
anthems like "Blooze." 
The Gray Race has its moments, but they come sporadically. The title track, "Them and Us," "Parallel," "Ten in 2010" and "Nobody Listens" should satisfy the most avid Bad Heligion fans with their quick pace, hummablo choruses, and brevity. After .first listen "Parallel" ,and "The Gray Hace" will be the ones still swlmmhtg in your brain and humming in your lips. "Punk Hock Song" is a few tempo notches slow from a classic Bad Heligion anthem. Unfortunately, these songs constitute the bulk of good tracks on the album. On other songs, Greg Graf!in departs from his intellectual barking and attempts to "sing" too often, and his harmony was never very good. The typically rousing cheers of "Lets Go!" on "Them and Us" and "Hey! Hey!" on "Spirit Shine" are delivered with all the acting fervor of Keanu Heeves as Jonathan Harker in "Dracula." 
The Gray Race is a decent album, but a better Bad Heligion album to purchase would have to be Suffer or No Control. 
-by Brent DiCrescenzo 
Atlantic Records 

• 
' "' Thursday, March 21, 1996
page 14 

by 
tim bayne 
reg a 
Zlggy Marley and the Melody Makers Aragon Ballroom, Chicago March 9, 1996 
I 
I -­
1.,_ 
I I I I I I I 
I I I I I I 
I 
I 
I 
I I I I I I 
~,.. 
I 
I I 
I I 
I I I I I 
t 
I I I I I I I 
I I 
~ ~­
! 
I 
I I 
I 
T 
he Windy City was truly miser­
able but Ziggy Marley and the 
Melody Makers turned on con­scious party for those who came in from the cold. While the stern visage of Halie Selassie kept a watchful eye on the pro­ceedings the Aragon crowd skanked to the positive vibrations of one of the tightest reggae acts in the business. True to their Rastafarian roots, Ziggy and the Melody Makers put on a right­eous performance that bore witness to, and to some degree embodied, their vision of cosmic unity. 
Julian and Damion Marley, supported by the fantastically tight Uprising band, were the opening act. After the compul­sory greeting "in the name of his Majesty Haile Selassie I", they launched into an hour of fine one-drop, ragga, and soca riddims. Julian's attempt to get the crowd singing along with his "Blossomin' and Bloomin"' fell flat, but a four-on-the-floor version of "Exodus" and a take-no-prisoners cut of "War" both went down like cold Fosters in a humid Wollongong woolshed. 
By now the crowd was well and truly livelied up for Ziggy and the Melody Makers. In crystal-clear sound they effortlessly performed material drawn mainly from their last album, Free Like We Want 2 B. interspersed with a good number of songs taken from the corpus of that more famous Marley. 
First up was the hopeful "My 
Generation (will make the change)" which transformed itself into the pulsat­ing dance-hall workout of "Live it Up." And then it was time for the proclama­tion of the gospel of ganja: "You got the apple tree, you got the mango tree, you got the orange tree, and you got the marijuana tree, and God made them all good. I and I smoke the herb of Mt. Sinai, I and I are in the flow." All this by way of introduction to "In the Flow," a track which was included in last year's release, Hempilation. 
Not to be constrained by the laws of logic, "Tipzy Dazy" was prefaced with a lesson on the evils of drugs -"No crack, no morphine, no cocaine" -and con­cluded with the chant "Strictly Marijuana." The fact that Ziggy was sporting a checkered shirt a la Lamar (that polytrickster!) did nothing to diminish the irony of the moment. 
At this point in the proceedings some of my fellows started to leave the flow. The fresh-faced youth in front of me be­gan convulsing -the result, no doubt, of too much in the way of the sacred herb and too little in the way of a high-fiber breakfast. As his friends said, "The dude wasn't, like, totally cool." Then the giant of a man to my left decided that he was going to enjoy his conscious party while sitting on the floor. But everyone was fairly happy at this stage and they didn't really mind. Meanwhile the energy from the stage was keeping those still stand-
reggae to Chicago's Aragon Ballroom. 
ing energized. Stephen Marley, who shared much of the singing duties with Ziggy, turned on a truly inspiring cut of "No Woman, No Cry," which featured the soulful voice of Cedella Marley. 
From here on in the hits just kept on rolling down as the energy-level went up. The failsafe "I Shot the Sheriff' was followed by a soca reworking of the 1988 classic "Tumblin' Down" and a very livicated treatment of "Get Up, Stand Up." The tour moniker, 'Free Like we want 2B," came across with passion and urgency, while "Move it" persuaded the crowd to do just that with the fattest funk groove Chicago has seen since George Clinton became a grandaddy. Ziggy stripped things back with the bare and honest cry of "Justice," a stand-out track from One Bright Day cut from the same cloth as "Redemption Song." But 
Photo counesy of Tim Bayne 
Ziggy Marley and the Melody Makers brought their unique combination of dance hall and 
the party was not over yet as the band broke it down for a tougher-than-tough mix of "Look Who's Dancing" with some of the wildest on-stage dancing one is likely to see this side of Shiloh. The irre­pressible positivity of "Could You Be Loved?" sent the crowd back into the cold Chicago night. 
Ziggy Marley may not have inherited his father's genius but he has surely inherited the Marley gift of touching the heart by moving the dancing feet. After the lewd slackness and superficial sen­suality which characterizes ragga and dancehall, Marley's spiritual connected­ness, as naive as it undoubtedly is, is welcome relief. For three hours the crowd at the Aragon, black, white and every shade in between, was jammin' in a spirit of unity (or 'inity'). And that must surely count for something. 

1. 
Tripmaster Monkey -Practice Changes 

2. 
Too Much Joy -...finally 

3. 
Siberia -Damage 



4. No Doubt -Tragic Kingdom 
5. 
The Presidents of the U.S.A. -self-titled 

6. 
Tori Amos -Boys for Pele 

7. 
Possum Dixon -Star Maps 


8. Smashing Pumpkins-Mellon Collie and·the Infinite Sadness 
9. Bad Religion -The Gray Race 
10. Lush -Last Night 

1. 
Sting -Mercury Falling 

2. 
Oasis -(What's The Story) Morning Glory? 


3. Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 
4. 
Everclear -Sparkle and Fade 

5. 
Kiss-Unplugged 


6. Surrender to The Air -Surrender to The Air 
7. 
No Doubt-Tragic Kingdom 

8. 
Spacehog -Resident Alien 

9. 
7 Mary 3 -American Standard 


10. Celine Dion -Falling into You 
CONCERT REVIEWS 

F 
w experiences in life withstand omparison to seeing George Clinton and associates open their bag of party tricks. Seeing Clinton give it up for the funk is a little like what one might imagine snorting Vegemite to be. The sheer metaphysical mayhem of Parliament Funkadelic rivals that of the Kabbalah, while uncut P-Funk often lives up to the press reports that it is indeed the ultimate force in the 
The Mothership was an hour and a late because George and his freaks re stuck in Vail by very unfunky er (caused, no doubt, by the evil Nose D'VoidofFunk). The crowd was stless as they waited for Dr. unkenstein and his extraterrestrial thers-they had waited a long time their funk and they wanted it bad. finally came on at 11 pm to tell 's weird and wonderful starchil­that the Funkentelechy would soon flowing. And indeed it did as the P­
Funk Allstars wandered on stage. But 
before the P-Funk proper began, Clinton led the crowd of racially diverse funka­teers in a chorus of random P-Funk chants: "S**t, go**amn, get off your ass and jam; If you ain't gonna give it up, take your dead ass home." When the funk finally came it was loud, heavy and definitely chased away any egocentric unsatisfunktion that was in the house. 
Sure, the sound was pretty terrible and the band was a little unsettled, but 
someone forgot to tell the audience. The ten member band forged a mothership connection from one Parliament Funkadelic classic to another -"P. Funk (Wants to Get Funked Up)", "Give Up the Funk (Tear the Roof off the Sucker)", "Up for the Down Stroke"-that, for three precious hours, united one nation under a groove. There ain't nothing like a P-Funk party, but the P-Funk is not just a party. Indeed, the apparent psy­cho-babble of Clinton's cosmos is actual­ly a very clever commentary on the ills of American society. Of course, 
funksters know that, but they also know that funk is its own reward. 
O 
ne might wonder how a reggae band came to playing on St. Patrick's day in an 'Australian' nightclub located in the heart of Arizona, but such mysteries are not to be solved by such cognitively im­poverished creatures as ourselves. The lead singer explained the connection thus: "You know, mon, St. Patrick was a 
rebel like us, and this is rebel music 'cos we fightin' for freedom too." Maybe he's right, but the crowd was there to hear sweet reggae sounds, not a lesson in Irish history. 
And if Big Mountain knows how to do one thing it is surely to produce sweet reggae sounds. Unfortunately much of their material was unknown to the crowd and their performance, while pol­ished and precise, lacked a certain degree of intensity. 
Things heated up a little when the natti dread on percussion stepped o from behind his congas to toast skank, but it was the hit "Baby I Love Your Way" that really got the audience on their feet and moving to the reggae beat. 
Halfway through the set, the lead singer introduced a song with the state ment that the band stood in with all native peoples. As he wa 
speaking, the 'friendly' security threw the only identifiable Native American out of the house for being a little over­zealous in his appreciation of the "rid­dim" and rhyme. Not surprisingly, the irony of this seemed to be lost on crowd composed of people taken from population that had almost given Buchanon the Republican primary. The sweet St. Patrick's Day reggae contin ued, but the positive vibration had a hol­low ring to it after that. 
-by Tim Bayne 

I ' 
I I 
I CONCERT REVIEWS C NC 
T 
I 

Thursday, March 21, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 
Lieberthalleads Phillies as Cards continue to struggle 
A..odatcd l'ress 
ST. PETEHSBUJH;, Fla. 
Hooldt~ Mikn Lidmrthal homn­rt~d and had two HBls as the l'hiladt~lphia Phillins beat St. Louis 3-2 Wednesday. handing tlu~ Cardinals their seventh straight nxhibition loss. 
l.iPlwrthal. the Phillies' back­up c:atdwr. had a saerifiee fly in tlw sc~eond a11 d lod off the ninth against Dennis Eekerslny with his seeond home run of the spring. Ecknrsley, who pitched in the ninth for the first time this spring, has given up two home runs in nine innings. 
Mikn c;raeo allowed thrHe hits in six innings, his longest outing of the spring, for the Phillies. c;raee allowed a run, lowering his EHA to 4.50. 
Winner Dave Leiper allowed a run on two hits in one inning. 
Tho Phillies snapped an eighth-inning tie when Gregg .JeiTt~rins seored from third on Todd Zeile's double-play grounder. .ldTerit~s and Mark Whiten had opnned tlw nighth with singlns ofT Torn Urbani. 
Cardinals slarlt~r Mikn Busby subbml for the second time for Alan Benes, who's day-to-day with a stilT neck. Busby worked four innings, allowing a run on two hits. 
Zeile's HHI single in the lil'th made it 2-0. 
David Bell had an RBI double in the bottom of the fifth, and Urbani followed with a single, but Bnll was easily thrown out at the plate by right fielder Mark Whiten. 
The Cardinals tied it 2-2 on doubles by Hay Lankford and John Mabry in the seventh. 
Mets 15, Astros 12 
Todd Hundley hit a decisive three-run homer in the sixth inning, and Butch Huskey con­nected for the sixth time this spring as the New York Mets beat the I Iouston Astros 15-12 Wednesday. 
Hoberto Petagine added a two-run homer in seventh, when the Mets were in the midst on 11-run outburst over a three-inning span. New York also scored six runs in the eighth. 

Huskey, continuing to fill in for injured first baseman Hico Brogna, had a solo horner in the second. Huskey had two hits in the game while raising his spring RBI total to 14. 
Jeff Bagwell had a three-run homer in the eighth for Houston. 
Jerry DiPoto pitched a perfect fifth, and got the victory because Hundley's horner off loser Scott Bankhead broke a 4­4 tie and put the Mets ahead to stay. 
Both teams had 16 hits, but the Astros made four errors that contributed to four unearned runs for the Mets. 
Rockies 5, Padres 4 
Andres Galarraga, who hit six homers against San Diego in 1995, got another one Wednesday when a split squad of Colorado Rockies beat the Padres 5-4. 
After losing a 4-1 lead, the Rockies pushed across the go­ahead run in the sixth inning on a hit batsman, two singles and a grounder. Lance Painter and Mike Munoz then held the Padres to two hits over the final three innings as the Rockies won for the seventh time in eight games. 
Galarraga's two-run homer, his fourth of the spring, gave the Rockies a three-run lead after three innings, but the Padres scored once in the fifth and twice more in the sixth thanks to wildness by Colorado reliever John Burke. 
Burke, who walked all five batters he faced Sunday, walked Chris Gwynn to open the sixth and later gave up an HBI single to Scott Livingstone and a bases-loaded walk to Rico Rossy. 
San Diego starter Fernando Valenzuela gave up four runs in 4 1-3 innings and has allowed 10 earned runs in 8 2-3. lie gave up back-to-hack RBI dou­bles to Larry Walker and Vinny Castilla in the second and Galarraga's homer in the third. 
Colorado starter Armando Reynoso continued his stellar spring. The right-hander allowed two runs on five hits over live innings. He struck out one and walked none. Heynoso has given up just three earned runs in 14 innings, and hasn't walked a batter. 
Dodgers 7, Expos 4 

A two-run homer by Mike Piazza capped a live-run first inning, and Isrnael Valdes pitched well as the Los Angeles Dodgers beat the Montreal Expos 7-4 Wednesday. 
The Dodgers scored all their runs in the first two innings ofT Expos starter Rheal Cormier. Raul Mondesi, Mike Blowers and Hoger Cedeno had HBI sin­gles in the first before Piazza hit his his fourth homer of the spring. 
Valdes allowed live hits and two runs in live innings while walking three and striking out seven. Mike Harkey allowed two runs in two innings, then Todd Worrell and Mark Guthrie held Montreal hitless over the last two innings. 
Piazza also doubled in the first, and Brett Butler and Roger Cedeno added two sin­gles apiece for the Dodgers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
LOST: Woman's gold sapphire ring  5 BR; 605 StPeter  FAX IT FASTIII  Join us for the annual "Keeping the  Facial hair Is no longer attractive to  
NOTICES  with two small diamonds last semester. If found, please call  $925/mo 232-2595  Sending & Receiving at  Faith" Series. This year's topic is To Pray and To Serve: Both Sides  girls. Especially phat goats that have been growing for three  
NAZZ 1996!11  X2446. Reward.  FOR SALE  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  of the Catholic Coin. Thursday, March 21 & Sunday,  months.  
Battle of the Campus Bands  ..LOST..  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  March 24. 7 -8:30 prn in the  Whoever put the nasty personal in  
Stamper Bob & the 4X4's-George  A forest green L.L.Bean wool coat  1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., by owner.  FAX IT FAST!!I  Stanford -Keenan chapel.  about a certain svelt gentleman is  
and the Freaks · Reverend  at Bridget's on 3/7. If found please  immaculate, two full baths, garage,  going to die.  
Funk-Los Catatonics-Saber  call Colleen at 4-23571  finished lower level. walk to ND,  "Ziggy played lor time, jiving us  Top Ten from the Band of Love:  
Latino -Cod in Salsa -Emily Lord - range, dishwasher. microwave,  that we were voodoo  10. OK, Big Blue Moon ..  12 days Dante. Counting them  
Hace Frio-Tacklebox-Tweak-Luster · emiLy  WANTED  refrigerator, washer/dryer, garage door opener, $77,900,  The kids were just crass, he was the NAZZ  9. I gave a lot last night! 8. Yah. and then I wake up and  down.  
Thursday. March 21  ph. 277-8898  With the God given ass  start my day.  Louisville rocks the house. They're  
8 pm  @ Stepan  MOM'S HELPER  He took it all too far but boy could  7. Can I have my pants back  going to beat Wake without batting  
Love Babies?  83 New Yorker auto 11 OK miles  he play guitar''  Mullen?  one of Denny Crum's eyelashes.  
Looking lor something to do this  Assistance needed for 2 infants:  runs well $900 Call X18220  6. To the closet Tim I  
weekend? Why don't you GET  newborn and 8 months.  You too can be the NAZZ  5. Melinda has an STD!  What'sgoingonupinthis BAD BOY?  
SHORTY at 8 and 10:30 on Fnday  Late April thru Fall  93 Honda Accord LX 4Dr., only  -orat least be at NAZZ  4. We're the band, is Skip here?  
and Saturday at Cushing. You can  50·20 hours  17K miles, supper condition like  8pm March 21 -Stepan  3....All about hand massages  Yes, facial hair is definitely not  
also GET SHORTY at 2 pm on  6.50/hr-10 a.m. • 1 p.m. prefered  new,  factory warranty, $13,700,  ----------­ and head rubs.  attrative, especially on guys who  
Sunday at Cushing.  References required  call 272-8696  Aliens exist-I know.  Call me - 2. Smelly cow...it will never die I  can't grow any on their UPPER  
Tel. 272 3237  Leave message  Joe Murphy 273-5281.  1. Oh. is this the locker room?  LIPIII (Not that I'm pointing fingers  
It's coming .... the first Four Food  please. if machine answers.  1990 two-door red Chevy Cavalier.  Go UCONN Travelers!  or anything .... ) And, hey, some  
Groups of the Apocalypse  Good condition. Call Wendy at  BARENAKED LADIES  guys REALLY DO look better with- 
Anthology "A WELL BALANCED  273-5818. $4000 or best offer.  Thursday April 11  Too Keller,  out it...  
MEAL." Shazam!  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students  Stepan Center  It's your birthday ...  
Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up  Tickets:  ...so go to the Backerl  FLAT?:  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING- to $3,000-$6,000+ per month.  JUDAY CREEK gem.  $8.00 students  By the way, Happy 22nd.  Let's talk about...  
Positions are now available at  Room and Boardl Transportation!  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  $12.00 general public  DEFECATION I  
National Parks. Forests & Wildlife  Male or Female. No experience  with a 17 x 25 home office  On sale March 28  SARAH TEITGEN TURNS 21 THIS  (I can't believe it's not butter.... I just  
Preserves Excellent benefits +  necessary. Call (206)971-3510  & 3-car garage.  With special guest THE BOG MAN  WKEND!!I  can't believe it.. ..)  
bonuses! Call: 1·206-971·3620  extA55844  5 minutes to ND.  Brought to you by SUB  
ext N55846  REDUCED TO $149,500  Beatrice­ 307 + 2 does Mexico. And the air­ 
----------­ REWARDING SUMMER JOB- Call Karen 272,3653.  In the lustful second circle, where I  ports.  
The Michiana Paintball Club now  Orlando. FL-residential camp serv- Not only are you a punk, but now  belong, reading Lancelot to the  (Better late than never.)  
has an Indoor Paintball field in  ing developmentally disabled hiring  you're an old punkl  damned.  5. I think I've always been some- 
South Bend · Free membership.  counselors 18+. Live and work on  Waterfront Condos  where between vice and ass.  
291-9462  wooded, lakelront preserve. Salary  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  JUNIORSII  Tickets: 3 Olympic Soccer tickets  4. Making sure Krista got on a bike  
plus room, board & extras 6/9-8/17.  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  Next Tuesday, join us for a trip to  for sale  has really been stressing me out.  
Junior Business Majors ·  Call407-889·8088 for application.  New Decor  see the Pacers play the Celtics in  Call x2031  3. Little Pancho, Como se dice  
Student Business Board is now  EVERYTHING included  Indianapolis I Tickets are only $25  "Renaissance Man" in spanish?  
Interviewing for the General  WANTED: Good people to earn  Close to Notre Dame  and are on sale at the LaFortune  Dear Lovespy,  2. He doesn't know how buena we  
Manager position for next year.  money by becoming reps for  BEAUTIFUL!  Info. Desk. Transportation is pro- I swear, it was all Liz's fault!!!  are.  
Drop off your resume at Student  EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  NORTH SHORE CLUB  vided. Call 1-5117 with any ques- This message  1. Pull me off anything foreign!  
Gov. off1ce by Friday.  299-1999 evenings.  232-2002  lions.  will self-destruct in exactly 10 sec- Extra special thanks to O'Hare air­ 
onds...  port, the US Postal Service and fax  
840 Hours Away  $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  PC, you're a cheap date ....  love, the  machines across the world.  
Needed I $$$+Free Travel  Mac Powerbook Duo 230 w/dock,  Thursday-Taco Bell ....  swallow  
ATIN: FEMALE SOPHOMORE  (Caribbean. Europe, Hawaiil)  230 MG HD, 8 RAM, 14in. color  John Thompson is a racist man if  
ACCOUNTING MAJORS..  Seasonal/Permanent. No Exper.  monitor, Multimedia kit, ext. soft- I've never had my slip returned to  Hey, DT,  you ask me. Even if you don't, I'll  
Looking for a campus job for next  Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398  ware incl. $2200, call 234-2766  me in an envelope!  What's it like to be old?  tell you he is. Maybe If my dad was  
year? Responsibilities include  extC1114  Happy 22nd, big guy ....  a Las Vegas big whig, I could be a  
working 1 hour/day (M-F)  PC SYSTEM FOR SALE  Because if you're not drinking  And your still a PUNK!  token too.  
Great experience. great pay!! ·Apply at the MORRISSEY LOAN  FOR RENT  Packard Bell 486 Desktop Computer, Monitor, Printer, Internal  Appleton, then you're just not drink­ing at all...babyl  Davey- Hey, ask Charles Smith. Oh wait, is  
FUND in the Dooley Am. (across from Info Desk in La Fort)  ROOMS FOR REIH IN PRIVATE  Modem, and all accesories. Windows 3.0 and many other pro­ ....,....................................  Happy Birthday, oh, and I forgot to tell you today, I LOVE YOU  he still in jail for killing someone. Maybe you could try David Wingate  
between 11:30·12:30 M·F by April  HOME.  grams. Asking $795.00 -289-9508  ATIENTION CAMPUS QUEERS  if he's free on parole alter that little  
3.  VERY CLOSE TO ND.  Are you gay, lesbian, bi-sexual?  BigBri  rape episode..  
ILOST & FOUND I IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194.  Got Pac-Man Fever? Arcade size Ms. Pac-Man game for sale. Perfect for any dorm or apartment.  Are you in the process of question­ing your sexual orientation? If so, you should attend our student lead  PC-You're on for that second bet...  I love a little controversy.  
Studio apartment in private home,  Call Greg at 277-9499.  support group meeting TONIGHT at  And I love my new video.  
Lost:  available June 1.  Quiet neighbor- 7:30pm.  Call the Q-Line at 287­ Scooters are fun to ride. except  
Notre Dame Student ID. Last seen exiting Regina on Thursday before break. If found  hood near Notre Dame. $375/mo. incl. utilities. Phone 631-6072 days, 273-1751 evenings.  PERSONAL  6665 for location. ····················*···············-·  when your friends see you on it. Or better yet, when your friends see you wipe out all over Duvall Street  I also love bookstore. lui thing ..  It's a beauti­ 
call Mike O'Hara @273-6183.  0o0o0o0o0o0o0a0o0o0o0  on it.  Yo boyz, can we invite coach  
5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys,  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLYIII  It's coming .... the first Four Food  Watch your speed around the turns  Thompson to Las Vegas nile?  
refrig, stove, partially furnished.  THE COPY SHOP  Groups of the Apocalypse  next time, JC.  Head would be in heaven.  
LOST: a silver pin with the  Heat incl. Completely remodeled.  LaFortune Student Center  Anthology: "A WELL BALANCED  
enscribed word: BELIEVE. This  606 N. St. Peter.  Phone 631-COPY  MEAL." Hot diggedy damn!  Shall we pull more skeletons out of  Yeah Mo. Timmy, Val, and Wil.  
piece of jewelery has much senti­ 289·5999 or 255-9471  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  the closet? Watch yourself.  Hey, Stanley ain't "too shabby".  
mental meaning. Please call Kerry  Mark Kramer.  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ 
at 4-2493 if found. Thanks.  Sass Jrdan on the Chicago Cubs.  rapher husband wish to adopt new- John Thompson is the best coach  It's appropriate that the best base- 
Faculty or Student Available in  "I will make you a believer."  born. Will provide love, nurturing  ever. Ask Patrick Ewing or Dikembe  ball movie had the best baseball  
LOST LOST LOST LOST  Aug.-For lease 4 bedroom, 2 full  environ., educ., financial security.  Mutombo.  park. Friendly Fenway rules.  
Green wool coat and wallet Sat,  baths, furnished appliances-wash- Tom,  Hollywood Hills home has large  
March 2 at Sorin. Would like to eat  er-dryer, attached 2 car garage, off  Did Meg have a moment?  back yard and loving dog. Call  I like pleasure spiked with pain and  Heather sucks.  
in the near future. Please call  street parking, deposit + utilities.  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  music is my aeroplane. It's my  Just kidding.  
Kristin at X3803.  234-1336  Mile high club, babylll  Confidential.  aeroplane.  Watch out for that door.  

-J 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, March 21, 1996 
•NBA 
Rivalry is renewed as Knicks down Pacers, 102-99 
l 
I 
r 
By CHRIS SHERIDAN 
Associated Press 
r 
NEW YORK 

John Starks pointed at his chest, nodded his head and pranced downcourt in an exag­gerated gesture after making a crucial 3-pointer. 
Reggie Miller punched a television set. 
Obviously, things went better for the New York Knicks on Wednesday night than they did for the Indiana Pacers. 
Starks made two clutch plays in the final 3 1/2 minutes and Miller didn't, and the Knicks began a tough stretch of five games in eight days with a 102­99 victory over the Pacers. 
"It felt like a playoff atmo­sphere here tonight," said Starks, who has engaged in several playoff duels with Miller and the Pacers in recent years. "It felt good to be getting back to the way we're used to play­ing." 
Starks and Miller refrained from any trash talk this time, but still tried to outdo each other. Starks got the better of this one, scoring 19 points on 6­of-8 shooting, including 4-of-6 from 3-point range, and getting a key assist in the final two minutes. 
Miller had 25 points, but he missed wide-open 3-pointers with 1 :04 and 50 seconds left when the Pacers had a chance to get within two points. Miller, who finished 8-of-22 from the field, also punched the televi-
It talks. 
It talks to your Mom. 
I

~ 
----------It talks to Moscow. 



•. 
I 

It talks to other computers. 
For more information visit us on the Internet at http://hed. info. apple.com/ 
.. 
sion set at the end of the first half after missing another pair of 3-pointers. 
"It's always going to be intense when these two teams get together. This was good for both teams because it's getting close to that time {playoffs)," Miller said. 
Patrick Ewing scored 31 points for New York, which plays at Chicago on Thursday before heading to Texas for three more games by next Wednesday. 
New York, which won its fourth in a row, was playing for only the second time in nine games. 
The Knicks moved within a game of the Pacers for the third seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs. 
Happy 21st! made it. 
eYa' Kid 
ASR 
Indiana, which got 20 points from Derrick McKey and 16 from Dale Davis, lost its second straight. 
The Knicks had an 8-2 run early in the fourth quarter to go ahead for good. Indiana pulled within one, 82-81, on the sec­ond of Mark Jackson's consecu­tive 3-pointers with 4:54 left and again 38 seconds later on Miller's two free throws. 
But the next possession led to Starks' 3-pointer from in front of Indiana's bench, and he ges­tured at the Pacers bench after the shot went through. 
"I didn't see that, but its good to know John is feeling his oats," Miller said. 
E-wing followed with a left­handed layup over Rik Smits for a six-point lead, but Miller hit a 3-pointer and a free throw, sandwiched around a turn­around jumper by Ewing, to cut the deficit to 91-87. 

Starks drove the left baseline on New York's next possession and passed to Harper near the 3-point line for an open jumper that made it 93-87. 
"John's defense was solid until that final minute and a half. Reggie had too many good chances at the end," Knicks coach Jeff Van Gundy said. 
New York hit 7 of 8 free throws in the final minute to 

Register a Team in Advance at RecSports Deadline is Wednesday, March 27 
It listens to your wallet. 
When you buy a Macintosh'computer, you're buying some of the most advanced multi­media capabilities you can get in a computer. With its built-in stereo sound, video graphics and animation, Macintosh is an easy way to bring your work to life. Of course, you're also buying the computer that gives you afast, easy way to access the Internet. Because with aMacintosh there are no complicated commands needed to get up and surfing on the Internet. Better yet, with the compatibility of aMa(you can run UNIX; DOS and Windows, as well as Mac OS.* Making it easy to talk to other people, even if they're not using a Macintosh. And if all that isn't enough, now we've even made Macintosh easy to buy. Because for alimited time, we're offering special campus savings on selected Macintosh computers and Apple' printers. So stop by and visit 
.1.. 

us today, and look into the power of Macintosh. The power to be your best~ • 
wrap up the victory. 

NOTES: Charles Oakley prac­ticed with the Knicks for the second straight day. A roster spot will open Thursday when Ronnie Grandison's 10-day con­tract expires, and Oakley could be activated for Thursday night's game at Chicago .... Starks started for the second straight gallle as Hubert Davis sat out with a hyperextended knee .... Brad Lohaus was in uniform for New York after missing two games with a sore foot, but he did not play. 
Thursday, March 21, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL • NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Thompson runs out of luck Guards control 
big game. 
"If your team competes and doesn't play to the caliber that it's capable of playing, there's going to be the question of whether or not the game had been fixed," Dempsey said. "It just opens up a tremendous suspicion, I think, that is not necessary." 
Gaughan said Tuesday he has known Thompson for 15 years, and the Georgetown coach is a regular slot machine player at the Gold Coast hotel-casino, which Gaughan owns. 
"He loves Las Vegas. He comes here for recreation," Gaughan said. "He wanted to know if there was something he could get involved with here." 
McCarran business manager Larry Larson said the slot ma­chine concession is the airport's most lucrative, bringing in some $20 million to airport cof­fers last year. Gaughan, howev­er, said it was a minor business compared to the casinos. 
"John just loves to play slots," he said. "I've got 1,000 little old ladies out there who know him by his first name. They talk slot talk, which one's ready to hit, that kind of thing. He's an entirely different per­son here." 
HousE FOR RENT 
'96-'97 

•5 
Bedrooms •Furnished •Washer/Dryer 

•Security 
System 



Call Pat McKelvey at 258-9996 
By TIM DAHLBERG 
Assoiciated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Georgetown basketball coaeh .John Thompson, bowing to the wishes of his university presi­dent, today said he will drop his applieation for a Nevada gam­ing license. 
Thompson had plannnd to op­nrate slot machines at the Las Vegas airport but was told by the Hev. Leo O'Donovan, the university president, that he couldn't do that and remain lloyas coach. 
"Our position is that it is inappropriate for an active Georgntown University coach to havn investments in the gaming industry," said the Hev. Leo O'Donovan, Georgetown's pres­ident. 
Thompson, in Atlanta to eoaeh Georgetown in the NCAA East regional, said he had reeonsidernd after speaking with O'Donovan. 
"lin is a person who has been 
extrnmely supportive and a 
person who I love very dearly 
beeausn he's permittnd me to 
be nw," Thompson said. "I 
havfl dedded to drop it." 
Thompson, an avid Las Vegas 
slot machine player, applied for the license months ago to join a Las Vegas casino owner in the company that operates a lucra­tive string of 1,000 slot ma­chines at McCarran International Airport. 
But news of his planned entry into the gaming industry was greeted icily by both the uni­versity and the NCAA. 
NCAA executive director Cedric Dempsey said it would be "ill-advised for anyone con­nected to college sports to be involved, even peripherally, with gambling interests." 
Dempsey also said he had "strong concerns about the image statement that this makes about the sport and about him as a coach." 
Thompson wants to own 10 percent of a company con­trolled by Michael Gaughan that runs the slot machine con­cession at the Las Vegas air­port. Gaughan is the principle stockholder in a company that owns two casinos, but the slot machine concession is separate from the casinos. 
Gaughan's son, Brendan, is a senior walk-on guard on the Georgetown team, which Dempsey said could be a fur­ther invitation to controversy if the team doesn't play well in a 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS NOW ACCEPTING NOMINATIONS FOR THESE AWARDS 
IRISH CLOVER AWARD We need your nomination of a STUDENT and a member of the FACULTY or STAFF who has exhibited outstanding service to the students of the Notre Dame community. 
FRANK O'MALLEY UNDERGRADUATE TEACHING AWARD We need your nomination of an outstanding 
undergraduate TEACHER. 
PLEASE CALL 631-4555 TO SUBMIT YOUR NOMINATION FOR EITHER OF THESE AWARDS 
~.. u••Ps
ff SHOOT OUT 
Wednesday, March 27, 7:00 PM Joyce Center Arena 
I I I I 
• Games to 15 Points 
• Single Elimination THREE POINT & FREE THROW CONTEST 
• 
Head to Head Competition 

• 
45 Second Shooting Period 


• Double Elimination 
tournament play 
By PAUL NEWBERRY 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
Allen Iverson springs toward the basket, propelled by the qltickest feet in the country. 
Kareem Heid fearlessly ven­tures into the land of giants, flipping in acrobatic shots or creating easy baskets for his teammates while defenders stand around dumbfounded. 
Stephon Marbury bounces the ball leisurely at the top of the key when -boom! -his powerful legs propel him in the air for a 3-pointer while every­one else remains firmly planted on the ground. 
They have taken the NCAA tournament into their hands with the deftness of a crossover dribble. They are the UnGuardables. 
"If you don't have any guards, baby, you can forget it," said Arkansas coach Nolan Hichardson, who has turned his team over to the freshman Heid. "You can have the big guy, the aircraft carrier, but if you ain't got a guard who can play defense and get the ball to those big people, on time, it won't matter." 
Guards have produced the seven highest-scoring games thus far in the NCAA tourna­ment, but their importance goes beyond the points that wind up in their name. 
How many teams, wary of 
Iverson's creativity, open up 
space on the floor for his less­
heralded Georgetown team­
mates? Would Kansas have 
reached the West Regional 
semifinals without Jacque 
Vaughn's defensive toughness? Would Massachusetts be No. 1 without the stability and 3­point shooting of Edgar Padilla and Carmelo Travieso? 
"Nine times out of 10, the guards are going to be put in a leadership role," Iverson said Wednesday at the Georgia Dome, where his team will play in the East Hegional semifinals Thursday. "I think teams are looking for guards who can play physically and stay out there on the court. They have to know when to slow it down, they have to know when the opportunity is there to run. " 
Georgia Tech wound up in the round of 16 by turning its team over to not one, but two natural point guards. Drew Barry led the Atlantic Coast Conference in assists for the third year in a row, freeing up Marbury to develop as a scorer. 
"They're definitely one of the keys to winning," Georgia Tech coach Bobby Cremins said of his guards. "There's no ques­tion the guards are going to handle the ball most of the time and take most of the shots." 
A natural shooting guard 
when he came to Georgetown, 
the 6-foot, 165-pound Iverson 
was moved to the point 
because that's the position he 
will have to play in the NBA. 
"Last year. I used to rush a 
lot," he said. "I wanted so 
much to contribute to this team 
and try to do things on my own. 
This year, I think I've changed. 
I play a little bit more patient 
now. I get other people more 
involved. I'm taking better 
shots." 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

Sunday, March 31, 1996 12:00 -3:30 PM 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility ofmarriage Topics to Be presented: 
•Stages ofrelationship 

•Steps in making healthy decisions 
•Long-distance relationships 
There is no cost for the program, but... Pre-registration is required. . . By Friday, March 29 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Questions? Cal/631-5242 



~

..-----------~--------~---~ -----------------------~~-~-----­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 21, 1996 
• NCAA TmJRNAMENT 
Majerus, Crum fear Kentucky's depth and speed 
By OWEN CANFIELD healthy this week-last week­with them." juries, academic disqualifica­in his 25th year at Louisville. "I Associated Press end, he missed the first-round Maybe not, but Van Horn said tions and an NCAA investiga­think most of it has to do with 
game due to the flu. the Utes will have to attack the tion during a season that al­their effort and their attitude." 
MINNEAPOLIS In Brandon Jessie and press and then try to do what most ended in the first round of The Cardinals have some 
Utah coach Rick Majerus Michael Doleac, the Utes have has worked so well all year -the tournament. pretty good players, too, most thinks he knows how to combat enough size and strength to get to the foul line. The Utes led Instead, the 11th-seeded notably DeJuan Wheat and Kentucky's depth. present problems for the nation this year, hitting 78 Cardinals rallied from a late Samaki Walker. Wheat leads 
"Food poisoning," he said. Kentucky's frontline. The percent from the line. 12-point deficit to beat Tulsa. the team with 18 points per
The coach who's always unknown -as it is with just That, and Utah's size advan­then knocked out third-seeded game and has led the Cardinals quick with a one-liner wasn't about everyone who plays tage up front, are what most Villanova in the second round. in scoring and assists the pastjoking however when he really Kentucky -is whether Utah concern Kentucky coach Rick This from a team that entered two years. assessed the Wildcats, the top will be able to handle the Pitino, who noted that the Utes the tournament having lost four Walker, who missed 10 seeds in the Midwest Regional Wildcats' pressure and then get ranked No. 3 nationally in re­out of five. games while the NCAA looked and strong favorites to reach good shots. bounding. "I've never had a team I think into his dad's purchase of a car, the Final Four. Virginia Tech did a good job '"I think they have strengths that is as short-handed as this gives Louisville size and scoring
"We have a good team. We've against the press in a second­over us, and I think we have team play as well as this team inside. played a good schedule," round game last week, but got strengths over them," he said. has played," said Crum, who is Majerus said Wednesday. "But worn out by Kentucky's parade "Which strengths win out?" we've not played the likes of of players and wound up losing 
Crum might argue that • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •these guys." 
by 24. strength of character is what • Kentucky (30-2) went through 
"It'll be something we haven't has carried his Louisville team • the Southeastern Conference faced much this year," said to the regional semifinals: 
ARCHERY
regular season undefeated, guard Mark Rydalch. against No. 2 seed Wake • something that hadn't been "We can't run up and down Forest. The Cardinals (22-11) • 
M....done in 40 years. The Wildcats the floor and exchange baskets have had to contend with in-: have good size, great quick­
.1n1 -Course 
ness, can shoot the 3-pointer 
and have more quality depth 
than anybody around. 
Tuesday & Wednesday

"If anyone beats them this year. they will have earned 
March 26 & 27 • 
their title," said Louisville 
7:00-9:00 PM

coach Denny Crum, whose 
team could wind up facing 
Joyce Center -Gym 1 

Kentucky in the regional finals, 
"because I still think they are 
All Equipment Will be Provided 
by far the best team." Utah (27-6) will counter Thursday night with one excel­
Class Size is Limited 
lent player in forward Keith 
Van Horn. plus a solid group of 
supporting players. $8.00Fee 
Van Horn is a second-team All-American and two-time 
fo?~~~
Western Athletic Conference 
player of the year who is 

,I....... 
I 
I 
I I 

Thursday, March 21, 1996 The Observer • SPOR-._:T~S::________ page 19 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
starts, Bessolo improved her rm:ord to 5-3 by winning 5 of 6 starts on tho trip. 
"I felt mow r.onlident," said Bessolo. "I was a little nervous at first, but the more I get to play, tlw more eomfortable I fenl out them." 
c;oing into today's double­hnadnr with Purdue, whom the Irish lHlVe never met in softball, all nwmbers of the Irish squad seek to continue that on-field improvement. Despite their newly-attained national rank­ing, the Irish vow not to take anyone for granted. 
"Any team we're going to play will be a tough game, in our minds, no matter who they may be," said Bessolo. 
It must be noted, however, that the possibility of a post­ponement still remains. Coach Miller told her team last night at practice that she and other officials will make the final de­cision this morning as to whether or not the games will be played as sr.heduled. 

Whether they play these two games or not, Notre Dame must r.ontinue their improvement if they are to have a strong sec­ond half push. They must get the encouraging play from underrated players like Bessolo. More importantly, the stars, such as All-American pitcher Terri Kobata and sec­ond baseman Meghan Murray, have to continue their strong performances. 
The Irish may not be back in top form, but are on their way . They know they are improving, 
•NBA 

Game highlighted by heated tempers 
Associated Press got into it on the baseline earli­er in the game," said coach 
SALT LAKE CITY Jerry Sloan, whose Jazz won The Philadelphia 76ers have their 15th straight home game. 
struggled this season even 
"The mental attitude and en­when they were at full 
ergy level jumped up after the 
strength. Wednesday night, 
incident." For Utah, that is. 
they lost their starting back­After Sean Higgins hit a 
court and fifth straight game. 

technical free throw on 
"P.S. Dump Your Boyfriend" 
Come Join the Fun at Michiana·s # 1 Largest Nightclub for Dance and Live Rock-N-Roll! 
Nightly Specials! 
Appetizers Served 'ti I Close! 
***So come join the "PARTY" only at Heartland*** 
Also Starting Wednesday and Every Wednesday it's Ladies Night at Heartland. Come and Dance the Night Away with Chicago•s Best DJ's and Win Free Admission Passes for Fridays! 
***Coming This Friday*** 
,.,

I -.., I '-.. I '-.. I ~ '-..
I • 
I ':z.. 

I 'Z:z-. 
I 'LD­
/ ~ ~7z ~ .................. 
1 A ~·z. ... ... 
/ O:z.. 'Jz"" ......... 
I ,-.ex ., C ...... 
I -<t 44./a oq .........
/ Gb ~A • vo ~o7z /
~... Oq .... ~A .Jh> I 
............... 0 ,/Pfie~· JJ-/ 
...... 7zL,., r-. z.e-e 1 
............ J ~,. r / ...... Or_:) 1 
..... , J/ 
............... ~~~/. / I 
'-.. '<"/CQ I 
'-.. I 
-.., I 
'-.. I '-.. I 
-.., I '-I 

Hornacek's ejection, Utah outscored the 76ers 21-9. 
"After the fight broke out, they responded and we didn't," said Philadelphia coach John Lucas. "Losing Stackhouse and Maxwell makes it tough for us when it's already tough being as shorthanded as we are. What disappoints me is that, if a fight breaks out, you're sup­posed to attack, not retreat." 
Jazz teammates claim Hornacek didn't throw a punch and shouldn't have been eject­ed. 
"There were Live, six seven shots thrown at our team­mate," said John Stockton, who scored 12 points and handed out 15 assists. "Jeff didn't throw a punch, not even close. But, yeah, it (the Light) got us up." 
Stackhouse had a different version. 
"He (Hornacek) came back with an elbow at me, and then he walked up to me and that was it," said Staekhouse. "I re­gret the whole situation. It was in the heat of the moment. I wish I could have it all back, but I can't." 
""",....,
' 
......

I" '-.. 
.. 
' 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 21, 1996 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
ARCHERY CLINIC 
RecSports will be sponsoring 
an Archery Clinic on 
Tuesday and Wednesday 
March 26 & 27 from 7·9 
p.m. 
All equipmenrwm·be provided and the fee for the class is $8. Class size is lim­ited and you must register in advance at RecSports. HOOPS SHOOT OUT " RecSports will be sp(ll)$oting a Hoop Shoot Ollt on Wednesday, March 27, at 7 

p.m. 
in the Joyce Center Arena. The Shoot Out will consist of a One"on;,.Qne con­test. a Three Point contest and a Free Throw contest. Advance registration in the RecSports office is required and the deadline is Tu¢sday, March 26. There is no fee for this event. BOWLING LEAGUE RecSports will be sponsoring a Bowling League on Thursday nights from March 28-May 2. Register your three-person team in advance at RecSports. Cost is $6 per week per person and includes three games and shoe rental. Play is held at Chippewa Bowl and transportation is not provid­ed. Deadline to register is Wednesday, March 27. Captain's meeting is sched­uled for March 27. at 6:15 

p.m. 
in the RecSports office. WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT Thls tournament will be on Saturday, March 30, and Sunday, March 31. There 


·will be men's and women's divisions. Bring your. own racquet, but racquetballs will be provided. Also, refreshments will be served. You must register in advance in the RecSports office by Thursday. March 28 and there is a $6 fee. For information, call the RecSports office at 1-6100. CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BEN­EFIT RUN • March 30 is the date for this 5K or 10K run, and 2 mile walk. The run begins at 11 a.m. with the start/finish being at the Rockne Memorial. There will be six divisions for each run with trophies being awarded to the top fmisher in each division. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the event. All proceeds from the event will be donated to Christmas in April. All registration forms can be obtained in the RecSports office and at the event. For information. call the RecSports office at 1· 6100. DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL­RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays· March 26, April 2, 9, 16. 23, and 30, from 8-11 
p.m. in the Joyce Center. . Come by yourself or bring some friends. No estab­lished teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. CASTING AND ANGLING COURSE -Course includes four sessions which meet on Tuesdays from 6-7:30 p.m. The dates are April 2. 9, 16, and 23. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs, and campus lakes. Equipment is provided, but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class. Advance registra­tion in the RecSports office is required. 
• fiGURE SKATING
Davis 

continued from page 24 
Harding ignores USFSA ban 
excited because the races are speculation for weeks she will do so. 
"Tonya is in the best shape she's ever been in," Schmidt said. "She's five pounds less than when she won U.S. na­tional in 1991. 
"She's practicing two to three hours a day, seven days a week. She's just more serious about skating than she's ever been." 
He said Harding will hold a news conference in early April to announce her intentions. 
"We're going to unveil Tonya II," Schmidt said. "It's a whole new Tonya. And it's the right time." 
Harding, 25, was stripped of her national title and banned for life by the USFSA for her role in the attack on Nancy Kerrigan at the 1994 U.S. championships. 
"We'll deal with it if and when it comes up," said USFSA president Morry Stillwell. 
Bill Hybl, who chaired the disciplinary panel that barred Harding from the USFSA for life, said today that he doubted the association's board of direc­tors would vote to let her back in. 
"Based on the totality of the circumstances, that would seem very unlikely," he said. 
longer in the outdoor season. 
"It is my goal to get better every time," Davis said. "I try to concentrate more on improvement more than win­ning." 
Davis will have a chance to race again Saturday at the Wabash Invitational. Coach Szczechowski is uncertain about the other teams entered in the tournament, but looks forward to the competition. 
"For most girls, this will be the first meet," Coach Szczechowski said. "It is hard to judge how we will do because we are very young." 
By WILLIAM McCALL 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. 
Tonya Harding's lifetime ban by the U.S. Figure Skating Association apparently isn't stopping her from planning a return to competitive skating. 
She has been training hard and might apply for reinstate­ment to the association, possi­bly by next month. 
Her new publicist, David Hans Schmidt of Phoenix, would not confirm or deny that Harding will petition the USFSA to have her ban lifted, or at least shortened. There has been 
0 


Guys everywhere. Girls everywhere. Insanity everywhere. Mom and Dad were right. It is a madhouse. You call them up. Tell them you're safe. And sound. They're relieved. And proud. You hang up. Then you continue playing strip poker. 
~ 
Thursday, March 21, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Bowling down under 
Alscx:iatrd Press 
Bowl games named for fruits, nowers and even yard­care products have come to be accepted by football fans. A bowl named for a Maori war danee is the latest to be added to the list. 
The llnka Bowl. pairing the third-place finisher in the Pac­1 0 against an at-large team, will be played in Auckland, New Zealand, on Dec. 27. 
Teams for the game, the first non-All Star football bowl out­side the United States since 1937, will split $3 million. The ganw will be played at 50,000­seut Eden l>ark and televised by ESPN tl>ec. 26, 8 p.m. EST). 
The creator of the game is former NPL player Hiki Ellison, who was born in Christchurch, New Zealand. 
"This will mark the first overseas college bowl game and we are thrilled to bring the game to my homeland," said Ellison, the former line­backer who won three Super Bowl rings with the San Francisco 49ers during a 10­year NFL career. 
Haka is an ancient Maori war party's drumatic wur dance performed in prepara­tion for battle. It has been syn­onymous with New Zealand rugby for more than a (:entury. 
"It should prove to be u bowl unlike any other and an event that will be a great experience for not only the Pac-1 0, but all parties involved," Pac-1 0 com­missioner Tom Hansen said. 
Hall at 7:30 


E.nlly Lord & 
Sabor Latino 

J L J L-::::> c_-_J-~ ~ Sgt. McCarthy, Jerome Bettis & other campus celebrities 
Troop Notre Dame presents 
The 3Ro Annual Campus­
Wide Talent Show 
March 23rd, I 996 
S\Je 
• special ouest host • 
Tickets arc $3 avail­able in the clining $4 at tile door. 11<~lls tl1is week 
Ht 'I wlits till' Hoys dll<l <iirls <:lui> ol St. .Jost'pll's City. . \ll<'r-pClriY lld<l <11 Nortll Village L<HHiillg 
('l,[ [JE~· ~\6 ~, ~·~If lf<~IF ~·~l~~'lf.~f.
lr,. . \ ,.S I //v Hr , ~~ t a;; W:. {'J.J,x,. ~ IL
t 

presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY 6:00 & 9:30 World Wide Web<http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.btml> 
The Observer • S-=P'---O-=--R--=-T--=-S_____________________:_pa...::g:....e_2_1 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Kruger rumored to coach Illini 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 

Florida coach Lon Kruger will succeed the retiring Lou Henson as Illinois basketball coach, according to broadcast reports Wednesday. 
Illinois oflieials denied the re­ports on Chicago radio stations WGN-AM and WSCH-AM, say­ing no decision had been made and no announeement was planned. 
Illinois athletic director Hon Guenther said Tuesday he asked permission to speak to Kruger. Illinois assistant Jimmy Collins, who played for Henson at New Mexico State, was also a candidate for the job. 
Kruger and Guenther did not immediately return telephone calls seeking comment. 
Collins had been at a junior college tournament in Kansas on Tuesday when Guenther asked him to return to Champaign early to discuss the coaching situation. 
Marty Kaufmann, an lllini spokesman, said Wednesday that no press conference had been planned regarding the hiring of a coaeh. 
Kruger, 43, has a 104-80 record in six years at Florida. His 1993-94 team was 29-8, the winningest record in the school's 76-year basketball his­tory, and reached the NCAA tournament's Final Pour. 
Before coaehing the Gators, Kruger was 81-46 at Kansas State, his alma mater. 
• NFL fOOTBAll 
Irvin involved in drug case 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 

Prosecutors say Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Miehael Irvin will be subpoenaed to tes­tify Thursday before a grand jury about why he was in a motel room where a woman was arrested on drug eharges. 
While investigating a motel manager's complaint early March 4 about possible prosti­tution and drug use, police in suburban Irving said they dis­covered marijuana, cocaine and drug paraphernalia in a room occupied by four people. 
A woman id.·ntified as Angela Henee Beck, 22, of Cedar Hill, a south Dallas suburb, was the only person arrested. 
"The narcuLics were found tn her property or immediately around her" and she claimed all the drugs belonged to her, Lt. Jimmy Perdue of the Irving Police Department said Tuesday night. 
Now, Dallas County prosecu­tors say they want statements from the three others. 
"At the time the drugs were found, Michael Irvin, Angela Beck, (former Cowboys' tight end) Alfredo Roberts and an­other young lady by the name of Jasmine Jennifer Nabwangu were present in the room," first assistant district attorney Norm Kinne said today. 
Subpoenas have been issued for Irvin, Hoberts and Nabwangu, who could faee charges, he said. 
"It's possible that any of them could depending upon what the testimony shows," Kinne said. 
"We're not satisfied at this time as to who all is responsi­ble. They are going to be asked to give their statements so that we can see who is criminally responsible for the narcotics," he said. 
Irvin could not be reached for comment Tuesday. At their home in suburban Carrollton, a woman identifying herself only as his wife said that she was unaware of the incident and that her husband was out of town, The Dallas Morning News reported. 
Irvin's attorney, Kevin Clancy, did not immediately return a call from The Associated Press today. 
A Cowboys spokesman who deelined to be identified said the team had no official com­ment about Irvin. 
"lie is a witness" to the arrest but was not himself arrested, the spokesman said. "That's all I know at ·this point." 
According to a 911 transcript obtained Tuesday, the motel manager complained: 
"We have two individuals who keep clleeking into our hotel. ... They've been renting the rooms and when we have to clean up after them, we've been finding cocaine and crack and marijuana. Well, they're back on our property tonight and their room is getting noisy." 
Irving police chief Lowell Cannaday said the circum­stances appear suspicious, but that the police department doesn't have enough evidenee 
.... 
The Observer is now accepting applications for: Advertising Account Executive Do you need extra money or valuable marketing and sales experience? The Observer offers: • Flexible Hours arou11d clnss schedules. • Excellent Income Opportunity. •Valuable Work Experience in a Fun Atmosphere Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Ellen@ 631-6900 or drop off your resume to  to arrest or charge the wit­nesses involved. "It's not a crime to be in a room at the Hesidence Inn," Cannaday said . Irvin recently completed the most successful of his eight sea­sons with the Cowboys. He was named to the Pro Bowl for the fifth time and holds Cowboys reeords for most receptions and receiving yardage. Roberts, who declined com­ment, was a reserve tight end for the Cowboys in 1991-92, and also was a teammate of Irvin's at the University of Miami from 1984-87. Hoberts is part owner of the  
room 314, LaFortune. Resumes are due by 5p.m Friday.  Cowboys Sports Cafe in Irving,  
•The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism• The Department of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history ofart or art criticism for consideration in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art Department Office, 132 O'Shag, by 3 p.m. Monday, April 1, to be eligible. A student may only submit ONE entry. Rules governing the competition are available in the Art Department Office. A total of $500 in prizes will be awarded. For additiona1 information you may contact : Prof. Char1es Rosenberg, 128 O'Shag, ext. 1-5672.  

pJ.ge 22 
Kurowski 
continued from page 24 
After starting the first three games, Kurowski's role became severely limited, not even play­ing in many contests. 
"After those three games, coach {John MacLeod) decided to shake the lineup a little bit and I just wasn't in his plans the rest of the year," Kurowski commented. 
Behind senior captain Ryan Hoover there were not many minutes to be distributed and Kurowski experienced the brunt of this situation. During the season, however, MacLeod slated that he had not given up on Kurowski. 
"To look at what he's gone through and see that he's still playing says a lot about him," MacLeod said. "It's very diffi­
t 
cult for him to be in the posi­
I 
I 
tion he's in. He was the 25th best senior in his class in the 
I 
country, and it just hasn't hap­' pened the way he thought it
r 
was going to happen. It's been 
I 
I upsetting to him and upsetting I to us, but he's just had that bad I 
luck." 
"Basically the coaches lost confidence in my play," Kurowski said. "Sometimes they would say your not the same Keith we recruited and that I was a step slower. I guess the coaches just decided to go with some of the younger players." 
Kurowski encountered bad luck even before his first game, missing his entire freshman season with a stress fracture he suffered during preseason drills. During his sophomore year, he would undergo arthro­scopic knee surgery and last year was diagnosed with Wolff­Parkinson-White syndrome in his heart. 

"The first five or six garnes it was just weird being out there again after the year before with my heart," he noted. "But I made it through the whole year and I didn't miss a practice. I suited up for every game and it was the first time in four years I was able to do that, so from a health standpoint, I feel great." 
With better health, Kurowski looks to next season to finally make the impact he wants. After being red-shirted fresh­man year with the stress frac­ture, Kurowski has one more year eligibility left. He will be student-teaching and taking graduate courses, while trying to earn a starting spot on next year's squad. 
That spot will most likely be 
.. at shooting guard with the departure of Hoover. Like Hoover, Kurowski has shown that he has the touch and range to fill this vital role in the Irish rotation. 
r • 
"I definitely plan to step into the two spot," Kurowski added. "Whether it be to start or to come off the bench, I plan to play a significant role." 
"Also from a leadership standpoint, I can provide lead­ership for the younger players because I'll be the only player in the program to have been here five years." 
In his fifth year, Kurowski be­lieves the Irish can get over that proverbial hump and win the games that slipped away this season. 
"We pretty much have solid play at every position," Kurowski said. "We were able to compete this year, but we were unable to win games. Next year, we should be able to win those game we should have won this year." 
Of course, Kurowski's deci­sion was not a simple one, but 


. . . . . The Observer/David Murph~
one he hopes will provide a fi­
Th. e .bench became a familiar s1te for Ke1th Kurowski as he spent much of last season watching from the
nal year to remember. 
Sidelines. 

"I believe I'll have one good Calif. and Todd Palmer of year before I leave this place," Ramsey, N.J. as part of this
he concluded. "After a lot of ....
year's Irish recruiting class. 0 games I didn't play in, I would talk to my dad and he would 
The South Bend Tribune con­

tell me to keep my head up and 
tributed to this report. 

next year would be my year." 
*** 

Future Prospects: On the re­
Recycle

cruiting front, Notre Dame re­ceived its third commitment last week from Keith Friel of 
The

Oyster River High in Durham, 
N.H. In his senior season, the 6-foot-3, 195-pound Friel aver­aged 28 points, 10 rebounds 
Observer 

and seven assists. Friel joins David Lalazarian of Tustin, 
. EB-­
Saint Mary's College 
NOTRE DAME o INDIANA 
Applications For The '96 , '97 Board of Governance 
are available at the Haggar Desk. 
Applications are due on March 25, 1996 to the Haggar desk by 5:00 PM. 


<>«.oc:layr 
vs. Purdue Ivy Field • 4:00 p.m. 
HOME OPENER! 

a • 
Thursday, March 21, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
\tJEll. 1 ~ou f!.f"ow, 'Mr>.~­... 0~ lJ.lM'I'" 1FT W~T 
HAPPY HIRTHUA Y! IN THE influential people will back you. Put fZ•A£.1' h jus~ 'So...'So E.t> To l3e.c.oiYIE. A 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: first things first. Keep a dental or Travel. friends and fun will be yours medical appointment even if you
/\l>U\."'f'. ITs So I,NomP--N 1:>/ No CAl'! 
in abundance 1 Harnessing your must cancel something else. "PEfi./'1\Ar'ENT... ~OU 1~E 1)o 'SIS"f"ER-I'm 
imagination for practical purposes VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): A will lead to new business gains. A business or rnmantic partner could
\N h FoR THe. U>Nc, ~I)CJ(!! 
cash flow situation improves. Be throw you a curve. Your quick1-\~l.IL ... 
ambitious; focus on high-profile recovery convinces someone to help projects. Self-discipline will help you. New perks or a promotion are you land valuable clients or con· possible at work. tracts. In September, make a fresh LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep start in your personal life. Decide if your thoughts to yourself for now. marriage is what you really want. Showing tact and diplomacy will Exciting career opportunities beckon encourage others to play fair. Expect early in 1997. Tilink big! A merger friends to pay their share when you will give you new financial clout. go out together. 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): THIS DAY: poet Phyllis McGinley, Curb a wild urge to play giveaway actor Timothy Dalton, composer games with the family fortune. Free Johann Sebastian Bach, actress Sab­yours~:lf from debt by paying off
JOE MARTIN MISTER BOFFO 


rina Le Beauf. your bills. A parent needs financial 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A advice. romantic partner who keeps saying SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. "maybe" needs a gentle hint. A 21 ): Resist the temptation to do compliment, love token or fleeting something rash in romance. A sweet touch could tip the scales in your and easy pace will get you further favor. Do not splurge with family than daredevil moves. The same resources. advice applies to work, too. Stick to 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): the tried-and-true. Keep a clever. idea to yourself for a CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. little while longer. Tilose in authority 19): Change is all around you. Wel­could make suggestions that give you come an opportunity to rethink your the feeling you are being criticized. options. You have learned a lot. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Dust off old ambitions to see if they You may be taking two steps for­are still worth pursuing. Consider ward, then two back. How frustrat­going in a new direction. ing when you are in a hurry1 Chan· AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18):
hllp \\\\\\ \\I'•Cnct m.·L U\Cr!> hull'u hullu htm 
nel your dynamic energy into fun as Crack the whip if doing so will get a well as work. Get together with pet project off the ground. Welcome friends who inspire you. shortcuts suggested by co-workers. CANCER (June 21-July 22): Their advice is invaluable! Swap the
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 

Your social connections can be prof­latest news over lunch.
iJ 
itable as well as fun. Fortuitous PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20):
YOU'RE AN IDIOT 

~ 
events aid a business partnership. Flouting the law or antagonizing
IS HE ON

u 
You view someone's skeptical atti· powerful people could prove costly.
NO, 'I'OUFOOL. COMPt>.R.ED TO /"'\E.! 
.!: 
CO/'\Ml5SlON? 
tude as achallenge. Exercise self-restraint. Psychologi·THA.T MODE/"\ PUT THAT DOWN! 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Heavy cal questions may require a closer responsibilities could weigh you look. Consult a therapist if you feel
WILL NEVER IT'S THE WRONG. 
'ttf..H, 1-\E PA'<S 

down. The facts are on your side; it might help.
. \ US f.. DOLLAR
FIT't'OUR INIE.RFAC.E! THE 
PER CU510t-\£R.

NEE.D. WRONG INTER­
.. ~ 
• OF INTEREST

..
\ FA.CE.! P 
\ 

Power Resumes Workshop will be held today from
·•! 
:I
"-'I 

4-5:30 p.m. in 215 DeBartolo. This is sponsored by the Career and Placement Center. A Job Search Orientation For Juniors presentation will be held today from 4-5 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. This event is sponsored by the
CROSSWORD 
Career and Placement Center. 
) 
ACROSS 27 CHICK &t Wrinkled 

"Keeping the Faith": singing, prayer, and reflection 36 Have vitality 65 BROAD 
on the role of service in a Catholic life, will be held Boris 37 -homo &a "Alas!" 
t Mussorgsky's 
tonight, 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in the Keenan-Stanford 
Chapel. Slavs political 10 Dash preceder 7t Catch one's 
5 Apostle to the 38 Logical or 69 Parcel out 
to Shakespeare 
39 "--Ordinary breath
title starter 
•MENU

Man" ("My Fair 72 1923 Literaturet4 Stewpot Lady" song) Nobelist 
Notre Dame 

t5 Bate -­
4t Anklebone 73 New Jersey t& Loser's concern 43 Cicatrix team 
North South 
Chicken Fajita Chicken in the Pot Stir Fry Beef Cheeseburger Pie 
t7 BABE 44 Destined 
20 Cadiz's country 46 Infrequent DOWN Grilled Redfish Spinach Fettuccine w/Pesto
2t Debatable point 47 Conclusive: t Wee onesAbbr.
22 How a medium 
Saint Mary's
2 Smack48DAMEgets the 

Turkey Parmesan
3Teatro-­

message? 52 Colo. neighbor 
Salisbury Steak 23 Crossers of 53 Soap unit 
Scala 

Vegetable Monterey Casserole Au Gratin aves. 54 -NaNa 
4 Jaunty 
5 Larry King25 Cry of mock 57 Simon and broadcaster 

indignation others 
6 Cartoon bear 7 Criticizes hard 

Wanted: Reporters, 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 See-through 
item 9 Pea, e.g. tO Hurry-scurry 

29 Under, 49 Kind of street 58 lnnisfree, e.g. 
photographers and
t 1 Have vitality 

poetically soSt.·--59 "Damn 12 Oahu garlands (Channel port) Yankees" siren
30 Aid in avoiding 13 Flight segment the draft? 51 Up 60 Espy 
editors.
18 Divider's word 31 Brilliant display 54 Run producer &2 Shade of green 
63 State of France funny" 64Fox homes 19 Siamese cries 32 Medical prefix 55 "That was 
24 Woodpecker's 

33 Happensnack 56 Black market &&G.O.P. 
34 Coins of Iran 

Join The Observer
goods &7 Qt. halves
26 Certain 35 What's up?
Nigerians 40 Make out
27 Mediterranean 

Get answers to any three clues 
staff.
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
28 Wit Bombeck et 45 Alternative to 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
al. Liquid-Piumr 


Make checks payable to: The Observer 
The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 0 Enclosed is $40 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name ____________________________________________ Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address _______________________________________ found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City-------State ____ Zip_______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
• 
SPORTS 

page 24 Thursday, March 21, 1996 
• SOFTBALl 

By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
Following their spring break road trip, the Notre Dame soft­ball team, which owns a 14-10 record so far, knew it was back in business. The busi­ness of winning softball games, that is. 
Despite a rough early-going, which consisted of a 4-6 start, the Irish appear to be back on their game, and improving in the meantime. 
According to Coach Liz Miller, the team, near the halfway point in their 1996 campaign, "has a long way to go, but [they] seem to be on the way to a successful sea­son." Their 10-4 record on the recent road trip should attest to this continual improvement. 
Included in that period of time were wins over #18 University of Illinois-Chicago, #21 Oklahoma State, and #9 Florida State. As a matter of fact, the team found out that they had moved into the USA Today/NSCA Top 25, with a national ranking of 24, on the eve of that Florida State game. These wins demon­strated the Irish's ability to handle the big-time pressure situations. 

"Our team has been playing great," explained freshman pitcher Angela Bessolo. "We felt a little more relaxed be­cause of all the games we've played. Those games, espe­cially Florida State, were real exciting. We just had a noth­ing-to-lose attitude that helped us play real well." 
This ranking was, however, only one tangible sign of the team's progress. The im­provement of the Notre Dame was especially evident on the field in the Irish 1-0 victory over FSU last Thursday. 
Throughout that Florida State game in particular, and the trip as a whole, Bessolo epitomized the team's success of late, by displaying her own personal improvement. She put on a clinic, by pitching seven shutout innings to get the win. After struggling at the outset of the season with an 0-2 record in her first 4 
see IRISH/ page 19 
• ME~'S BASKETBALL 

Returning for redemption 
An optimistic Keith Kurowski plans on fifth-year revival 
By JOE VILLINSKI 

Associate Sports Editor  
There are basketball values senior Keith  
Kurowski holds which made this season an es­ 
pecially difficult one.  
"My dad always told me to go out and work as  
hard as I could," he reflected. "All you can do  
is when you step off the court is to be honest  
with yourself, knowing you did your best."  
Problem was that the injury-plagued guard  
spent a majority of this past year on the bench.  
This permanent seat on the sidelines was a  
change after being the third-leading Irish scor­ 
er over the past two years. Kurowski, however,  
would not be a major part of Notre Dame inau­ 
gural season in the Big East.  
In light of this transition, that walk off the  
court was never an easy one.  
"From a personal standpoint, it was very dis­ 
appointing," Kurowski said. "Things just didn't  
work out. It was just a tough year for myself all  
around."  
The Observer/David Murphy  
Irish head coach John Macleod had difficulty finding  
see KUROWSKI/ page 22  room for Keith Kurowski in last season's line-up.  


The Observer/Rob Finch Keith Kurowski, after enduring injury and lack of playing time, hopes that returning for a fifth year will salvage his career at Notre Dame. 


BOOKSTORE XXV LAST CHANCE!! 
Sign Ups are in LaFortune Lobby 
Price: $13.00 

Thursday Friday
11-2 p.m. OR 11-3 p.m. 
6-9 p.m. 

Softball 
at Purdue, Thursday, March 21, 4 p.m. 
Men's Tennis 
at North Carolina, Friday, March 22 
Lacrosse 
at Butler, Saturday, March 23 
Davis sets SMC precedent 
By KATHLEEN POLICY has seven more tries at Nation­Davis attributes her slower Sports Writer als," Coach Szczechowski said. time to a poor start. With her "It was great for her to just concentration effected from the 
Despite her 13th place finish 

make it there." beginning of such a short race, at Division III Nationals last 
It was a momentous event for Davis could not make up the week, freshman Stacy Davis 
Saint Mary's because no runner time at the end. feels that her 55 meter run was 
has made it to Nationals since ''I'm going to chalk this up to a positive experience. 
the school became a member of experience and work harder to She ran the 55 meters in 7.48 
the NCAA. better next time," Davis said. seconds. Though not her best 
According to Szczechowski, Davis and the rest of the team time this season, Davis is still 
Davis does not like to lose. lie now look forward to the out­satisfied with her appearance 
feels that she will keep working door season. She is especially at Nationals. 
harder to get better. "She is only a freshman, and see DAVIS I page 20 

• NCAA Tournament coverageBaseball 
see pages 17, 18
at Boston College, Saturday, March 23 

• New bowl possibility 
Saint Mary's Tennis vs. St. Joseph's, Thursday, 

see page 21
March 21 
Softball vs. Oliver, Thursday, March 21 

• John Thompson's second career 
see page 17 






