
Thursday, February 8, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 85 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
COBA delivers verdicts in cheating scandal 
By MARY KATE MORTON 
Associate News Editor 
and DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
After an anxious Christmas break and a tenuous beginning of the semester, students in­vnlvfld in the Finance Depart­ment's Advanr.11d Corporate Fi­lHlnCil cheating investigation Wllrll nntilind nf the University dedsions on their cases earlier this Wllllk, sources close to the situation said. 
Students found guilty of cht!ltting recnived various pun­ishnwnts. ineluding the reduc­tion of tlwir course grade by 
Weekend marks one century of history, tradition 
Editor's Note: This is the first of a two-part series hon­oring the centennial of the Grotto at Notre Dame. 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
Assi!>tant News Editor 
l'tlace. He rtection. Inspiration. Though the Grotto at Notre Dame may offer different 
one or two letter grades. According to one male senior, who wished to remain anony­mous, students who had ap­peared at the January hearings and were found not-guilty, re­ceived their decisions two weeks ago. 
The grade reduction poses a problem for some seniors in the class if the penalty caused a student to fail the course, one source said. Advanced Corpo­rate Finance is not offered in Notre Dame's summer session, and the deadline for adding a course for the Spring Semester has passed. Because the class is required for finance majors to graduate, offenders could be 

things to different people, it sits in the heart of the campus as a representation of one important aspect of the University -tradition. Marking its one hundredth year, Notre Dame will honor the shrine with a service on the feast of Our Lady of Lourdes this faced with an extra semester of school, sources said. 
"Student's who regularly had C's and D's are faced with the possibility that they might not graduate because they may have received F's," one student said. 
Sam Gaglio, assistant dean of the College Of Business Admin­istration said that investigations into the matter were complete, but he could not discuss specifics because of confiden­tiality provisions in the school's Honor Code. 
"Yes, we are done with the formal hearings," he said. "I can't comment on anything that might implicate a student." 

weekend. 
An internationally renowned site of prayer and pilgrimage since 1896, the Grotto resem­bles a riverside cave near a town in southern France. 
In Lourdes, apparitions of the Virgin Mary appeared 18 times to a French peasant girl between the months of February and July of 1858. The 14-year old, Bernadette Soubirous, was canonized on December 8, 1933, the feast of the Immaculate Conception. According to the story, when 
see GROTTO/ page 4 
Last November members of four sections of Advanced Cor­porate Finance were accused of cheating on a departmental take home examination. The cheating allegedly took place in the College of Business Admin­istration computer cluster where students were col­laborating on the test. The pro­fessors who taught the classes, Robert Battalio and D. Katherine Spiess, requested written confessions from stu­dents involved. At that point according to the University Honor Code, The Finance Department Honesty Committee would begin to hold hearings into the matter. 
Gaglio noted that any decision of the honesty committee can be appealed by students. 
"The proceedings are fin­ished, however, within the Honor Code there is an appeal procedure and the deadline for those appeals has not passed," he said. "Since the appeal pro­cedures are not complete, sub­sequent action will not be taken before decisions are rendered on those appeals." 
That leaves open the possibil­ity for a reversal, Gaglio added. "No action is final until the appeals are complete," he said. James Peterson, assistant 
see SCANDAL/page 4 
SDF President equates racial prejudice, power 
By ERIN LUM 
News Writer 
"You can't live in the United States of America and not be mentally ill," said Heverend Al­bert McKnight, president of the 
Southern Development Foundation, to an audi­ence at the llesburgh Library Lounge last night. 

According McKnight to McKnight, a lecturer on racism in Ameri­can society, racism has become a national disease comparable to mental illness, and it is the responsibility of every Ameri­can to overcome it. 
"Racism is more than just prejudice-it is the power to impose prejudices into public policy," he said. 
According to McKnight, racism has been institutional­ized into every area of Ameri­can society. The result is a so­ciety where the relationship be­tween black and white people is "sick" due to the lack of understanding between the two groups. 
"To hate oneself and one's people is not normal. ..to try to be like other people is not nor­mal," McKnight directed at the black members of the audience. He expressed the need for the African-American community to go back to its roots and get in touch with its history rather than continue to embrace the white culture and values it has been educated with. "Culture affects how we perceive real­ity... and (American) blacks have become whiter than white folks in terms of white culture and values," he said. 
To overcome racism, McK­night says people must discon­tinue relying on their left (white) brain, which is the ma­terialistic, analytical brain, and return to the right (black) brain which acknowledgns the impor­tance of the soul. 
"For a long time, black sym­bolized the divine, but this has been reversed by racism. The salvation of the world starts in the heart.. .for this salvation to be possible, for people to heal, blackness must be embraced," said McKnight. 
As part of his endeavor to change the problem of racism in America, McKnight formed a program called B.U.S.T. (Black Unity and Spiritual Together­ness) which is organized into chapters of thirteen members who meet twice a month for the purposes of spiritual bonding, community action, and saving to invest in a national financial cooperative institution. Through B.U.S.T:, McKnight hopes to improve the spiritual and economic situation of the black community in America and to combat the racism that now oppresses it. 
For more information on how to get a B.U.S.T. chapter start­ed, Father Albert McKnight can be contacted at the follow­ing address: P.O. Box 1088, Opelousas, Louisiana, 70571. 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Imminent election sparks debate over equality of districts 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
News Writer 
In light of' the completion of four new residence halls on Notrn Dame's campus by the fall of 1997. redistricting was thfl main topic of concern at thn Student Senate meeting Wmlnnsday afternoon. 
The Senate unanimously approved of Student Gov11rnment's proposal to redistribute residence halls for this year's and all future elec­tions. 
Because the Student Senate election is approaching rapidly, Student Government President Jonathan Patrick and Vice President Dermis McCarthy felt that the potential redistricting should take placo in a timely manner. 
The proposal will now go to the Hall President's Council, where a vote will be taken at its next meeting. If the propos­al gets the 2/3 majority required for approval, it will officially become an amend­ment to the Student Government constitution. 
In the Student Government report submitted by McCarthy and Patrick to the Senate, there are three drafted propos­als that would effectively deal with any potential problems arising upon completion of the new residence halls. These concerns include gender, numerical and geographic inequalities which could sur­
see SENATE/ page 6 
Below is one of the proposals for re-districting the dorms put forth by Student Government to the Student Senate. This is one of three possible choices for districting. These figures represent the campus in 1997. District #1 District #2 District #3 District #4 Alumni 269 Carroll 102 Stanford 268 Farley 248 Dillon 339 Lyons 203 Keenan 280 Breen-Philips 200 Fisher 189 Morrissey 320 Zahm 237 Siegfried 235 Pangborn 201 Howard 164 Cavanaugh 227 Knott 228 Keough 275 Badin 126 St. Edward's174 P.E. 226 O'Neill 275 Walsh 190 Lewis 282 P.W. 237 Welsh 275 Sorin 171 New Dorm 275  
5 male 3 male 4 male 2male 3 female 4 female 2 female 4 female 2,098 residents 1,306 residents 1 ,468 residents 1,374 residents  

r 
I 
~ 
I 
I 
! I 
I 
I ~ 
I 
.I 
page 2 
•INSIDE COLUMN 
My best friend 
for life 
Nearly seventeen Stacy Ward years ago, when mom 
Associate Viewpoint 
called to tell me that I 
Editor
had a new baby sister, I had more important things on my mind: Grandma allowed me to have both an orange soda and a milkshake with my McDonald's™ Happy Meal! I had enjoyed three and a half years as the only apple in my doting parents' eyes. 
Soon I would learn that my new family member was more than just a rival for my parents' attention! 
At first Kate was a fun new playmate-a live action Whack-A-Mole! My four-year-old freedom provided me with a distinct advan­tage over her protective confinement in the playpen. Therefore, when boredom or annoy­ance set in, attempting to hit the small head with an orange squeaky hammer provided me with loads of entertainment. This weapon of choice remains in the attic for posterity and the opportunity for mom to sufficiently embarrass us before boyfriends and families of the future. 
At some point, though, Kate transformed from that playtoy to a friend (or enemy). Our squabbles were frequent and involved hair pulling, tears, and mom as referee. 
However, a close friendship existed as well; Kate was my most loyal companion and we made a great pair. In the summer, freckles sprouted on Kate's nose. Adults were charmed by this button nose, her chubby cheeks and pigtails, and asked in that pesky adult tone, "And how many freckles are on your cute little nose?" Having used my supe­rior addition skills, I had counted every freck­le beforehand, allowing Kate to respond, most precociously, our recent total. We loved the floored expression with which adults always walked away. 
As we now totter on the brink of adult­
hood, I do not believe that I ever appreciated 
the impact I had on my sister-I was a role 
model for her life. Kate was someone with 
whom I played and shared secrets, but it 
never occurred to me that, as three years her 
senior, my actions and beliefs would guide her 
as well. I find it odd that my sister learns so 
much from me, when I know I am always 
learning from her. She is my undying ally and 
strength, always challenging me and helping 
me reach my goals. 
Kate and I share a special friendship and 
joke that we are "100% related"-she is my 
best friend for life. After being abroad for 
four months, I returned home and felt as if we 
had never been apart. At school, I miss Kate 
because our phone conversations do not con­
vey the same emotions and concerns we share 
in person. 
When we are together, we can read each 
others' joys and sorrows as easily as if they 
were our own. If my sister is on the brink of 
tears, my lip quavers as well and when she 
succeeds I feel a similar happiness along with 
an incredible amount of pride. 
Kate and I share a past of secrets and spe­
cial moments that only a sister can under­
stand. I will never take for granted the friend 
who laughed and cried with me throughout 
my youth. We've come along way from the 
playpen and squeaky hammer days. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TOI)AY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Heather Cocks  Tom Snider  
Corrine Doran  
Production  
Sports  Belle Bautista  
Mike Day  Tom Schlidr  
Todd Fitzpatrick  
Lab Tech  

'The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, Febrary 8, 1996 
• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Senate votes to revamp farm subsidies 

WASHINGTON 
The Senate voted Wednesday to break the decades-old link between farm prices and government subsidies, giving farmers instead a series of fixed but declining payments. The action could lead to the eventual end of farm payments. 
The 64-32 vote came despite a last­ditch fight mostly by Midwestern Democrats who wanted to save at least some connection between prices and payments. Twenty Democrats joined the majority. Opponents charged that Re­publicans were offering welfare to farmers while cutting money for educa­tion, school lunches and health care for the poor. 
In exchange for less government sup­port, controls over most planting deci­sions would end, along with require­ments that acres be idled. Freed from those controls, backers say, farmers will prosper, planting every free acre and shipping grain the world over to feed. 
Democrats had a less optimistic view, saying farmers will be given hefty sums up front and left defenseless. Senate Minority Leader Tom Daschle, D-S.D., called the overhaul a "tragic mis­take." 
"This bill comes at a time when agriculture is in transi­tion," said Sen. Dick Lugar, R-Ind., chairman of the Senate Agriculture Committee. "It is becoming much bet­ter and much stronger." 
"Farmers will finally plant for the market and not the government," said Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole, R­Kan. "Our patience and perseverance have resulted in 
Pope wins over former difficulties 
MANAGUA, Nicaragua 
Celebrating Mass before 150,000 worshipers, Pope John Paul II expressed happiness Wednesday at political changes that have brought peace here but tossed barbs at the for­mer Sandinista government that spoiled his last visit. At one point, he alluded to the Sandinista period as "a long, dark night." Nicaraguans 

cheered and waved flags -both national and papal -at a dusty plaza on the shores of Lake Managua. President Violeta Chamorro, a cross dangling over her long white dress, escorted the pontiff hand-in-hand. Chamorro, a devout Catholic, called the pope's visit a dream come true and "a blessing from God." "In 1983 you found our country painfully divided by ideologies foreign to our nature," she said, her voice breaking with emotion. 
AIDS marrow transplant fails 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Baboon bone marrow implanted in an AIDS patient to boost his failing immune system has apparently failed to work, doctors said Wednesday. But the AIDS patient, 38­year-old Jeff Getty, is doing "surprisingly well," perhaps due to chemotherapy, said Dr. Steven Deeks, who per­formed the transplant at San Francisco General Hospital on Dec. 14. Getty, a former University of California policy analyst who turned into an AIDS activist when he discov­ered he had the disease, said from his Oakland home that he had always known the chances of success were not good. "When I came into this, I rolled the dice," he said. "I didn't even know if I was going to live through thing. Now I'm looking forward to a long summer of sailing." Bone marrow produces the body's immune system, and the baboon cells were transplanted into Getty. 
the most significant changes in agricul­tural policy since Iowa's Henry Wallace was secretary of agriculture under FOR." 
Both senators were headed for some heavy campaigning in that farm state, where the bill is popular. Another GOP presidential contender, Sen. Phil Gramm, R-Texas, was campaigning in Iowa and did not vote. 
Consumers may feel little impact from the bill, because raw ingredients make up a small share of supermarket costs. However, critics say that despite some reforms, the bill keeps in outdated quo­tas and price guarantees that make consumers pay more for sugar and peanuts. Complicated and regionally divisive dairy programs were left untouched. 
The overhaul of how the government supports corn, cotton, rice and wheat won't be debated in the House until after Feb. 26. 
Agriculture Secretary Dan Glickman, in a statement, said the bill "takes a step in the right direction'' but is flawed 
because prices and payments are decoupled. There was 
no veto threat. Some changes sought by the administra­
tion, including a guaranteed $300 million, three-year 
fund for rural development projects such as water and 
sewer plants, were made in the Senate. During Wednesday's rushed debate, Dole successfully led a 59-36 vote to block an amendment by freshman Sen. Rick Santorum, R-Pa., that would further cut the government-guaranteed price for peanuts and ease limits on who can grow them. 
Study: Diet won't prevent cancer 
NEW YORK 
Adopting a low-fat diet at midlife or later probably won't reduce a woman's risk of breast cancer, a study suggests. Pooling and analyzing the results of seven pre­vious studies involving a total of 337,819 women, mostly middle-aged or older, scientists found that the amount of fat in the participants' diets had no effect on their risk of breast cancer. The researchers in the earlier studies didn't find out how long the women had been on their diets, so the results don't rule out the possibility that women who have avoidr.d fat for most of their lives run a lower breast cancer risk. Indeed, other studies suggest that if a low-fat diet can influence that risk it would have to be adopted in childhood or adolescence to affect the decades-long processes that lead to cancer. "There are other, very good reasons to stick to a diet which is rela­tively low in red meat, and low in high-fat dairy products, and high in fruits and vegetables," said Dr. David Hunter. 
Mom fights over food-intolerant kids 
WARRENSBURG, N.Y. 
Several times a day, Catherine Evans' three children drink down a little juice box containing a gooey, foul-tast­ing nutrient solution. The nutrient drink is necessary because Randi, Brooke and Drew can't digest the com­plex proteins in most foods. For Mrs. Evans, Neocate is an $1,800-a-month miracle that has transformed her achy, nauseated children into relatively healthy kids. But for Blue Cross and Blue Shield of the Rochester Area, Neocate is not a covered expense. The insurance compa­ny contends that if it were forced to pay for the Neocate, it could set a precedent that could raise premiums for others. At issue is whether Neocate is a non-covered food supfllement as defined under the insurance policy. Mrs. Evans said she first noticed problems with Randi shortly after the girl's birth 13 years ago. 

• fbTIOtiJU. WEATHER 
Thursday, Feb. 8 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


ILL 
• 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 8. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-5TORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vta Associated Press 
Atlanta  62  41  Denver  72  40  Palatine  44  32  
Baltimore  45  31  Indianapolis 4 7  32  Portland  38  27  
Calgary  ·5  -22  Los Angeles 83  56  St. Louis  63  35  
Chicago  45  31  Madison  44  28  Tampa  76  55  
Dallas  75  47  New Orteans 72  53  Yuma  85  59  

Graphics Brandon Candura Tom Roland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, February 8, 1996 The Observer • NEWS 
Graduate program receives award 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Notre Dame's Alliance for Catholic Education, a program for graduates to teach in disad­vantaged areas of the U.S., re­cently received the Western As­sociation of Summer School Administrators Exemplary Program Award and a $100,000 grant from the UPS Foundation. 
ACE was founded in 1994 to provide committed Catholic teachers for understaffed paroehial schools and to give recent college graduates inten­sivfl teaclwr training and op­portunities for Christian com­munity and personal !,rrowth. 
The Act\ program offers two ynars of tnaehing experienee in the south and two summers of graduate courses. along with tnaehing positions in the South Bend community. Summer ses­sion eoursns are taught by facul­ty from both the Universities of Portland and Notre Dame. 
"The University of Portland teaches our students. so the award we won is through the Western conference, and is an assoeiation of all summer schools. The award is basieally for the most innovative summer school programs in their dis­trict," said Louis Del Fra, as­sociate director of ACE. 
"I think we won the award due to our teacher training program, as we are so practice and expe­rience oriented. The students receive a masters degree for what is mostly practice, which is a really new idea in education. There are only 16 weeks of coursework, so most of the cred­it is from the summer teaching in South Bend and the years spent in the south," said Del Fra. 
ACE currently sends students to locations in eight southern states; it expands next year to include Texas. "Our goal is to revitalize elementary and sec­ondary education. We send recent college graduates to parts of the country where resources are indequate, financially and structurally," said Sister Lourdes Sheehan, director of ACE. 
While teaching in the south, ACE participants are assigned a mentor for supervision; these people do not stay in the class­room. "This supervision enables the students and the mentors to develop a close relationship over the years. The mentors must do live evaluations per semester, so they are in the classroom every 
** Ha"e any talent? ** 
Come and show your stuff at the 
TROOP N.D. TALENT SHOW 
AUDITIONS: Monday, February 12 at Washington Hall 
Call4-4029 for sign-up times or questions! 
three or four weeks, but they aren't always in there, telling the students what to do. I think this really improves their teach­ing skills," said Del Fra. 
"It is such a gift to have Catholic graduates who want to teach and share their faith. They show such energy and gen­erosity. The younger generation often gets such a bad rap; I wish everyone could meet the stu­dents I do. They really counter the stereotype, it is absolutely inspiring," stated Sheehan. 
Since its first year of opera­tion, ACE has doubled in size. Under Sheehan's direction, ACE has sent 80 teachers to disad­vantaged parochial schools in urban and rural communities of the southeastern United States. 
"We' thought the first year that only about eight students would apply but over 100 people came to our first meeting. That year we placed 40 students and 32 continued into the second year. This year we have about 50-60 spots and we are presently in the selection process. We are very excited because this will be the first year our students will graduate from their second year of teaching," said Sheehan. 
The grant from the UPS Foundation will enable ACE to cover their expenses and begin planning for the future. 
"We run about a $200,000 a year deficit. After the fees are deducted from the salaries, we still need to find about $200,000 for expenses. By the year 2000, we would like to have between three and four million dollars in an endowment, because then we wouldn't have to go through fundraising. Since the money from the UPS is a grant, it will go into the fund for the endow­ment," said Sheehan. 
The UPS Foundation began in 1989 to address adult literacy and hunger relief. It distributed approximately $13.3 million in 1994 through the U.S. and Canada, according to Sheehan. 

We have started to take applications for next year. 
Furnished apartments­swimming pool-jacuzzi­tennis, volleyball, & basketball courts­24 hour laundry-shuttle bus­professional management. 
*Apartments available for your selection.* 
For more information cal/272-1441. 

The ObseNer/Margaret Kensinger 
Adding to the List 
Saint Mary's freshman Nicole Ludwig registers to vote in the dining hall. The drive is a part of the Women's Week festivities currently taking place. 
Discussion pinpoints women's health issues 
'Beneficial' forum answers students' quertes, concerns 
By DONNA MIRANDOLA News Writer 
In an effort to address Saint Mary's College students' con­cerns about women's health, Judy Kenney, director of Health Services at Saint Mary's College, led a Women's Health Issues forum last night in Hag­gar Parlor. 
Books and pamphlets on pre­ventative and general health care were available, and the staff of Health Services an­swered questions from the stu­dents. 
Saint Mary's College Health Services believes in treatment as well as the importance of students gaining knowledge of current health care issues. Stu­dents have the opportunity to ask questions and learn. 
"General health care knowl­
edge is essential. If you know 

how to protect yourself and treat yourself, this will em­power you when you leave the college and are out on your own," says Kenney. 
A commonly asked question was what college students can do to stay healthy and maintain a nutritious diet. 
"A combination of low fat and low calorie foods, fresh vegetables and exercise is your best bet for staying fit," states Dr. June Ferguson. 
Other issues addressed in­cluded how to help a friend with an eating disorder, vegetarianism, and breast and ovarian cancers. 
"I think that the forum was a good idea. It is beneficial to learn information about our general health and especially the important issues in wom­en's health," says student Karen Hardy. 
Saint Mary's College's Health Services is located on the lower level of Holy Cross Hall and is open Monday through Friday from 9-5, and Saturday from 10-4. 
----~-~-----------------------------------­
page4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 8, 1996 
At Notre Dame's Grotto, a shrine, the site was a place Grotto is apparently shared by small piece of rock from the where "everything from old the countless visitors from all shrine at Lourdes is embedded shoes and tin cans or what­over the world who, along with in the wall in honor of have-you were thrown," the numerous Notre Dame stu­
Grotto One-man play 
continued from page 1 
to highlight
Bernadette and the original Maguire wrote. dents, alumni, faculty and staff, cave. From a garbage dump to a have come to the Grotto in the
the girI asked the vision to 
identify itself on the last occa­Despite the obvious reverence sacred site of inspiration, the last hundred years. abortion issue that has been demonstrated at Grotto is constructed on un­Although it may serve as a
sion, the apparition said, "I am 
both the Grotto at Lourdes and hewn boulders weighing as place of solace, the atmosphere Special to The Observer the Immaculate Conception." 
the Grotto at Notre Dame, the much as three tons. at the Grotto has not always
Mary told Bernadette to dig in 
the dry ground, where a spring actual construction of the latter Though its dedication was a been peaceful. On September A One-man play, entitled arose that no one had seen was not as easily accomplished century ago, the Grotto's aes­23, 1985, a fire threatened to "Born/Unborn," will be per­as one might expect. thetic aspects have enjoyed destroy the area. However, with formed by 1959 Notre Dame
before. Several million visitors After the prompting of the continual attention. the help of workers who graduate Dan Ferrone on go to Lourdes every year, and Reverend William Corby, a for­Fifty years after it was erect­chipped and scaled the heavy Thursday, Feb. 8 at 7 p.m. inin this same spring, half a mil­
mer president of Notre Dame ed on August 5, 1896, a carbon residue ·by hand, Washington Hall. Admission islion people bathe in what are and provincial superior of the processional to the Grotto was cleaned the rocks with blasts free and open to the public. 
believed to be miraculous 
Written by the late playwright
Congregation of Holy Cross, the held in honor of the Blessed from a high-pressure water and
waters (National Catholic News 
University awaited a benefac­Virgin on August 15, the feast detergent spray, and secured and novelist Martin Chervin, the on August 4, 1983). 
tion allowing the Grotto to be of the Assumption, in 1946. the loosened boulders by tuck play addresses the moral,The Virgin's request to build 
a chapel at the Grotto in built. Priest-alumnus Father During those rites, pilgrims and pointing them, the Grotto was social, political, and spiritual Lourdes was granted in 1862 Thomas Carroll of the diocese their families followed priests, saved. Today, as a result of an dimensions of legalized abortion of Eire, Oil City, Penn., eventu­brothers and nuns as a small order by the Notre Dame fire by examining the impact of an
after four years of examination abortion on the lives of a young
ally enabled the construction of statue of the Virgin was carried chief at that time, there is an
established the credibility of the 
a scaled-down Grotto of down the aisles of the Basilica established maximum number couple and five other charac­apparitions. 
Even before she was canon­Lourdes on campus. of the Sacred Heart. The statue of candles that can be safely ters, four of whom operate an 
abortion clinic. A reviewer in
Notre Dame's version of the was a gift from members of the lighted at one time (October 2,
ized, Bernadette was regarded the National Catholic Register
shrine was originally meant to Schmidt family. who started 1985, South Bend Tribune­
as a saint in the Catholic 
called it "a searing and unblink­
be an exact "facsimile" of the making yearly pilgrimages to Metro).
Church. Many Church leaders 
have revealed their belief in the Grotto at Lourdes, according to the Grotto in 1902 and who, ac­In an effort to honor the Uni­ing look at the abortion issue." an 1896 record from the cording to a South Bend Tri­versity's century-old Grotto and According to Ferrone, the
divinity of the original Grotto 
Provincial Archives at Notre bune article, were continuing to all it represents, a mass will be play "proposes no resolution ofand of Bernadette's experience. 
Dame. However, despite Cor­visit the shrine in 1946 (South held on the Feast of Our Lady of the dilemma of abortion otherOn July 18, 1981, a wounded by's efforts in bringing with him Bend Tribune August 16, 1946). Lourdes on Sunday, Feb. 11 at than that won by prayer. WhatPope John Paul II gave a pre­the exact dimensions of the Augmenting the sacredness of 10 am at the Basilica of the Sa­good will it do to have abortionrecorded speech from his hos­clinics shuttered, to outlaw the
Grotto at Lourdes to Notre the Grotto is the inclusion of the cred Heart. The celebrant and
pital room, wounded after a 
failed attempt on his life. The Dame from France, the Grotto _emotional letter by humani­homilist will be the Reverend practice, if, in our hearts, 
is actually only about one-sev­tarian and Notre Dame alum­Agostino Cacciavillan Titular there's no desire to persevere in speech was meant to be pre­our response to God's love, tosented for the Eucharistic enth the size of the original. nus Dr. Thomas Dooley, placed Archbishop of Amiterno and the 
Although today the Grotto is before the kneelers just over papal nuncio to the United choose life in the fullest sense?" 
Congress in Lourdes during the 
impressive in appearance, the thirty years ago. From his States. Bishop John D'Arcy of The Notre Dame performance
Pope's scheduled visit to the 
of "Born/Unborn" is sponsored
site was not always appealing deathbed in 1960, Dooley ex­the Fort Wayne/South Bend dio­
Grotto in August of 1983 -a by the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's 
to the eye. The spot where the pressed his affection for the site cese will offer words of wel­
speech intended as an act of Right to Life group and the
Grotto now sits on campus was to the Reverend Theodore Res­come at the beginning of the
devotion to Mary. Despite the 
fact that the speech was post­formerly a "dump heap," ac­burgh, then University presi­mass. A 9:30 am prayer service Campus Ministry office. cording to Father Joseph dent. Because he knew Dooley's will precede the mass; both
poned, the pope illustrated his 
Maguire. words would serve as a source events are open to the public. 
faith in the Grotto's healing 
Scandal
"When it was decided to build of inspiration and reflection for Another public observation of
power: "God has permitted that 
the Grotto there, old Brother Grotto visitors, Hesburgh had a the Grotto's centennial will be
I myself currently experience continued from page 1
Phillip had his crew clean up copy of the !P-tter mounted and held in May during the spring
suffering and weakness in my 
the rubbish before the work placed on display at the special meeting of the University's
own body, which makes me feel professor of finance and chief 
all the closer to you," he told was begun," Maguire said in a place of serenity on Notre Board of Trustees when a of the Finance Honestyletter to Father McAvoy. Prior Dame's campus. plaque marking the anniver­
the sick who sought cures at committee, declined to com­
to the construction of the Dooley's adoration for the sary will be placed in the
Lourdes. ment and referred all calls to the Dean's Office. 

is now accepting applications for the 
1996-97 General Board 
Any foil-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Liz Foran by Monday, Feb. 12 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process orfor more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. . 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manage~ a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Ald~s Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertisers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and acco_unt executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self­motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary'~. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
~ 
--------, 
Thursday, February 8, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
China warned against 'grave' military action 
US. officials view attack as unwise, unlikely 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Assm.:iatcd Press 
WASHINGTON 
China's military threats against Taiwan are mostly political posturing to dampen Taiwan's independence move­nwnt, U.S. officials said Wednesday. But they warned Bnijing that any attack would have "very grave eonse­qtumeBs." 
Ollidals would not say if that nwans Amnrican military force would defend Taiwan, but tlrey said China has lwen made well aware of tlw dangers of mili­tary action. 
"ThPr«~ is absolutely no doubt in Beijing's mind and in Tai­wan's mind that we would bn v«~ry seriously involved" in the nvm1t of a military confronta­tion. said Winston Lord. tlw as­sistant secr«!lary of stale for l·:ast Asian and Paeifie affairs. 
Such a situation. Lord's De­
fense Department counterpart Kurt Campbell said, "would have very grave conse­quences." 
The two testified at a Senate Foreign Helations subcommit­tee hearing on a recent string of events, including Chinese military exercises and missile launches near Taiwan and statements by Chinese leaders, which heightened fears of armed attack across the Taiwan Strait. 
Lord said China's recent bel­ligerence was primarily "psy­chological warfare designed to influence the voting" in Taiwan's March 23 presidential election. The voting will be a testing ground for the strength of the island's independence movement, although anti-inde­pendnnee President Lee Teng­hui is favored to win re-elee­tion. 
"All evidence at our disposal at this time leads to the eonclu­sion that the People's Hepublic of China has no intention to ini­tiate military action," Lord, a former U.S. ambassador to China, said. 
Sen. Craig Thomas, H-Wyo., 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 
True motive behind threat is uncertain 
By EMILY DIXON News Wrirer 
The legitimacy of China's re­cent threats toward Taiwan in an effort to influenee the is­land's politics hinges on Tai­wan's first democratic presi­dential election in March. 
Peter Moody, professor of government and director of the Asian Studies Program, says he would be surprised if China wages war with Taiwan. yet he feels the danger still exists. "In addition," he says, "I sup­pose they're also hoping to intimidate the U.S., to make us stop what tepid support we have given to Taiwan. The threats, however, may have the opposite effect, driving us toward more open acknowl­edgment of Taiwan's de facto independence." 
Beijing has regarded Taiwan as a renegade province since the end of the 1949 civil war. It maintains a general threat to attack Taiwan if the island at­tempts to become independent from China. Tensions between Taiwan and the mainland have been problematic since Lee's unoflicial visit to the U.S. last June. 
Beijing viewed the trip as a move to promote Taiwan's independence and subse­quently "began publishing im­polite personal attacks" on Leo and conducted missile tests 
chairman of the East Asian and in 1949. Pacific Affairs subcommittee, Tensions have eased consid­said China also appears to be erably in recent years, with signaling Congress "that we Taiwan inVf~stors playing a key should rein in our support of role in China's economic devel­Taiwan" and withhold l'uture opment and tens of thousands arms sales to Taipei. of Taiwan residents allowed to 
Beijing's official stand always visit relatives on the mainland. has been that it will use force, if But Beijing leaders have been necessary, to regain control on outraged by the actions of Lee, Taiwan, the Nationalist strong­Taiwan's first native-born pres­hold since communist forces ident, to promote democratic drove them from the mainland reform and increase Taiwan's 
Student art explores women's issues 
By BERNADETTE PAMPUCH Senior art major Jeannine One notable feature of the Nrws Writer Gaubert, one of several artists artwork presented in the ex­featured in the exhibition, says hibit is its use of everyday In conjunction with the cele­that her artwork deals in par­themes and household objeets. bration of Women's Week at ticular with the media's "I enjoyed Tiffany Matula's Saint Mary's College, the Saint images of women. work on household oppression, Mary's Arts Club is sponsoring specilieally her quilt made out its first Women's Week Art Ex­"Pretty much all of my art­of Brillo pads and steel wool," hibition. work deals with women and said Saint Mary's senior their portrayal in the media Kristen Johannes, a philosophy 
The nxhibition foeusns on and the type of roles they put major with an interest in women by presenting and women in," she said. women's studies who is one of qur.stioning issur.s like fear, Gaubert added that "they set many students who have seen violenc«~ and self-imagn and by these standards for women the exhibit since its opening on challtmging traditional wom­whieh are pretty much unat­Monday. en's rolns. tainable." Another of Matula's pieces 

Come meet award-winning author EDWARD FALCO and get apersonally autographed copy of ACID, his latest collection of riveting short stories. 

DO 
0 
W111ner of ttle Richard SUllivan Prize for Short Fiction 

EOn;arO 
FaLCO 
Thursday, February 8, 1996, 7:30p.m. Barnes & Noble Superstore 
4601 Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
UNM:RsiTY'OF NoTRE DAME PREss 
"Falco writes hard-edged, uncompromising fiction." 
-Booklist 
"Falco creates nearly perfect short stories filled with interesting charac­ters and wonderfully dramatic situations. The characterizations are so crisp that it's impossible not to care about these people. Falco proves himself to be a sterling practitioner of the short story form." 
-Publishers Weekly 
utilized human hair and a hairdryer to explore the ritual of waxing common to many women. 
Coordinated by Arts Club members Lisa Lentz and Tiffany Matula, with support from the Student Academic Council, one of the main goals of the Women's Week art exhi­bition was to provoke the audi­ence into questioning their own images of women. 
The exhibit runs in the Le­Mans Hall Lobby at Saint Mary's through Feb. 9. 
over Taiwan's waters, says Moody. 
Due to adverse weather con­ditions, the USS Nimitz, an American aircraft carrier, was forced to travel in the straits between Taiwan and China last month. The presence of this U.S. Naval vessel served as concern for China. The China Times reported that China viewed the action as a display of U.S. military power In its waters. 
Moody says China's threats stem from its own chaotic political atmosphere. "The lack of flexibility on China's behalf," says Moody, could only bring nbout negative con­sequences for China. 
international status. They in­terpreted his private visit to the United States last June as in­tended to undermine u.s.­China relations. 
The South China Morning Post, an English-language daily in !long Kong, reported Wednesday that Chinese Presi­dent Jiang Zemin has been un­able to countermand the gen­erals of the People's Liberation Army. 
fO~ MORf i~Fo~~ATic;W ~ 
'i~l){)·tt2. -ECLF 'If,."''*'-'Wtli•lVI'f.o..a.,.._.w~ 
Cou.&t.•~ IAJtAI..1..1 N4b 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 8, 1996 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
face if the redistricting is not 
done. 
Each of the three proposals 
calls for four voting districts. 
The first proposal was en­
dorsed by Student Government 
and submitted to the Senate. It 
calls for the South Quad to be 
divided into two different dis­
tricts. Under the endorsed pro­
posal, Fisher, Pangborn, 
Alumni, and Dillon Halls will be 
included in the same voting 
area. These residence halls. 
along with four new West Quad 
residence halls, will make up 
District One. 
District Two will consist of all 
remaining South Quad dorms, 
as well as Carroll, Sorin and 
Walsh Halls. This would be the 
smallest voting district, with 
1,306 students. 
Lewis Hall and all the North 
Quad halls except Breen­
Phillips and Farley would com­
pose District Three; Farley, 
Breen-Phillips and the Mod 
Quad dorms would constitute 
District Four. 
The proposal takes into ac­,count the various discrepancies 
which will exist in district 
equality during next year's 
transition period in which only 
two of the new halls, Keough 
and O'Neill, will be open, and 
Flanner hall will also remain 
full. According to Vice Presi­
dent McCarthy, "We are trying 
to deal with the problem of 
what to do with Flanner and 
Grace as best we can right 
now." 
If Hall Presidents Council ap­
proves the plan, all of Grace 
Hall's votes will be included 
into the District One total, and 
Flanner Hall will be included in 
District Four for the 1996 stu­dent elections only. McCarthy ·and Patrick admitted that there will be gender inequalities in this year's election, with District One consisting of a disproportionate number of male dorms, and District Four experiencing the same problem for women's dorms; however, they stressed that the plan is aimed at the long term, and the inequalities will only be tempo­rary. With the conversion and closing of two sets of dorms, and the completion of a West Quad by 1997, the plan effec­tively strikes a balance that creates districts which will be proportionally equal with regards to geography and gen­
der. 
McCarthy referred to the first proposal as the "most fair nu­merically." Acknowledging the difficulty of dealing with redis­tricting on a campus which is changing so drastically, Student Activities Director Joe Cassidy called redistricting a "very tough issue to keep up with." 
The second and third redis­tricting proposals, which were not endorsed by the Student Government, were also thor­oughly researched. The second proposal calls for a split of the South Quad that differs geo­graphically from that in the first proposal. The number and gender splits were the same as the first proposal, but the potential for confusion among students was increased. The third proposal, according to the report, was created "simply to give the alternative of maintaining a separate and distinct Mod-Quad rather than including it in part of the North Quad." 
This proposal was not endorsed by Student Government due to the gender and number inequalities that would remain in the South Quad. 
Another topic discussed at the meeting was the need for a new representative from Hall Presidents Council on the Senate. The Senate discussed possibly leaving the spot vacant. but no final decision was made. 
Senator Alfonso Kennard suggested that he look into the possibility of preparing a pro­posal to paint the water tower on the northeast side of cam­pus. 
He stated that the idea of investigating this stemmed from hearing the inquiries of many of his constituents on this matter. McCarthy alerted Kennard to the difficulties of making this happen, but encouraged Kennard to look into the possibility of submit­ting a proposal. 
At the next Senate meeting, nominations for awards given by the Senate will be accepted. These awards include the 0'­Malley Undergraduate Teach­ing Award, which is sponsored by the Student Senate and the Alumni Association, and the Irish Clover Award, given to both an undergraduate student leader and a faculty member who performs exemplary duties to serve student organizations. 
Driver escapes with year-long probation, no fine 
By DAVID LIEB Associated Press 
JEFFERSON CITY. Mo. 
The air was cool and the ground wet, so 14-year-old Ryan Sayles wore a jacket May 17 as he stepped off a school bus in front of his Kansas City home. 
Halfway across Missouri, the Statehouse was .quiet, the leg­islative session over. 
But a little-noticed law passed just a few days earlier would soon come into play in the tragic sequence of events that followed. 
As Ryan got off the bus, the drawstring of his jacket got caught in the door. The bus driver, Saladin Anderson, pulled away. 
The ninth-grader's best buddy, Conrad Wright, said Ryan "ran alongside it knock­ing on the door trying to get the bus to stop. Then I saw him fly up in the air and hit the ground." 
Conrad, 12, said Ryan fell to his death under the big wheels after keeping up with the bus for half a block. 
' What the Legislature did be­fore it adjourned would ensure that the bus driver would es­cape serious penalties for careless and imprudent dri­ving. "We screwed up," said Rep. Gary Witt. "Occasionally, we make a mistake." Witt has since helped the state House pass an amend­ment to restore the higher penalties. The Senate has not acted, but Gov. Mel Carnahan consid­ers the change a high priority, his spokesman said Wednesday. 
If you see news happening, call The Observer at 1-5323. 
School bus kills 14-year-old 
The intent of last year's law was to lower the criminal sta­tus of speeding to avoid costly, time-consuming jury trials. 
But the legislation failed to specify the targeted subsection of the law, and as a result also reduced careless and impru­dent driving from a misde­meanor to an infraction. 
Under the old law, the offense carried up to a year in jail and a fine of $1,000. An infraction has a fine of up to $200 and no jail time. 
Circuit Judge Jay Daugherty found Anderson guilty of care­less and imprudent driving and placed him without expla­nation on probation for a year, 
'The loss of life here 
resulted in nothing more than an aggravat­ed parking ticket ...and I don't think that is appropriate.' 
Lawyer Claire McCaskill 
after which his driving record could be wiped clean. He was not fined. 
Jackson County Prosecutor Claire McCaskill said she would have sought a tougher sentence and a jury trial under the old law. 
"The loss of life here result­ed in nothing more than an ag­gravated parking ticket," she said, "and I don't think that is appropriate." 
Sen. Harold Caskey, whose legislation contained the weak­ened penalty, questioned why prosecutors didn't file tougher charges. 
But the prosecutor said no other charge fit. "We had suf­ficient evidence to prove operating in a reckless man­ner, but not enough evidence to charge something more," she said. 
McCaskill said the driver should have waited to see that the boy was clear of the bus before driving off. Youngsters on the bus said Ryan was wav­ing to get the driver'!> atten­tion, but Anderson's lawyer said the driver didn't see the boy. 
McCaskill refused to specu­late on why the driver did not stop. 
Ryan's grandfather, George Sayles, said he is angry and disappointed with Missouri government. 
"Death was involved," he said, "and that bus driver should have to pay some sort of personal penalty for what he's done. He should have to repent." 
Sayles added: "I am not a vengeful person. I just want what's right." 
Anderson, 33, who is no longer a bus driver, has suf­fered enough, said his lawyer, Chuck McKeon. 
"This is something he lives with every day. It is a tragic accident, and it is a horrible, horrible thing that happened to him," McKeon said. 
Anderson is being sued for wrongful.death by the Sayles family. 
Also named in the lawsuit are the Kansas City School District and the bus company, Vancom Inc., which the Sayle­ses contend did not properly train Anderson or review his driving record. 
Anderson has been cited since 1992 for speeding in Mis­souri and Illinois, and was ticketed in Missouri for im­proper lane usage. 
McCaskill, a former state representative, said there is a lesson for legislators in Ryan's death. 
"Everything you do in the Capitol has real-life conse­quences," the prosecutor said, "or sometimes real-death con­sequences." 

No Summer Plans?? 
SERVICE 
Have a summer full of adventure and invest in your future 
PROJECT? 
career while working as a community health volunteer! 
(ND students only) Skills Developed Projects Administered Countries Served Communication Community Sanitation Mexico Leadership Human Immunizations Honduras •$1,500 ScholarshipInterpersonal Rabies Vaccinations Costa Rica Foreign Language Environmental Education Dominican Republic Cross-Cultural Sensitivity Dental Hygiene Ecuador 
•8 Weeks of Service 
Management HIV Prevention Education Paraguay Organiza tiona! Brazil 
In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Al~I~J..U:A'l10 IV 
Scholarships available. J)JW)JJIVJ~ IS MAIU:D I. 
Across the U.S. 
Al~I~J.Y 'I'O))AY! 
5618 Star Lane 
Houston, TX 77057 ++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 800-231-7796 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns: Deadlin 9th 


Thursday, February 8, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
Authorities investigate cause of massive crash 
By KERNAN TURNER 
Associated Press 
PUEHTO PLATA 
Working among sharks and floating debris, rescuers in in­11atable rafts pulled more than 100 bodies from the deep wa­ters of the Atlantic on Wednes­day aftnr a chartered jet loaded with German tourists crashed with 189 pnople aboard. 
There were no signs of sur­vivors, and the cau'se of the crash was unknown. 
Tlw Boeing 757 was carrying the tourists home from the Caribbean on Tuesday night when it erashml about 12 miles northeast of this oceanside re­sort. 
There were differing aceounts ow1r who operated the 11ight. 
The German tour operator said the Dominican airline, Alas Transporte de lnternacional, was responsible, having leased the aircraft from a Turkish company, Birgenair. But Gen. I lector Homan, director of the country's civil aviation ageney, said Alas was not responsible because it did not own the plane. 
An air and sea search by the 
U.S. Coast Guard and Domini­ean military on Wednesday turned up only debris from the aircraft. 
"You can see at least 50 bod­ies floating. It doesn't look like anybody would have survived that," said Coast Guard heli­copter pilot Scott Matthews. 
At least 105 bodies were re­covered, the Coast Guard said. The search was suspended at nightfall with a heavy rain and was to resume Thursday. 
Boeing spokesman Dick Kenny said the plane -the sec­ond Boeing 757 ever to crash­was built in 1985. An American Airlines Boeing 757 crashed Dec. 20 as it approached Cali, Colombia, killing 160 people. 
Flight 301, operated by Alas, took off from the Puerto Plata International Airport about 
11:45 p.m. (10:45 p.m. EST) Tuesday in a light rain. It reached an altitude of 7,000 feet and appeared on radar screens to veer right, as if turn­ing back, before going down, Dominican officials said. 
The civil aviation director said the pilot radioed that he 
Happy Birthday iheila 
Love 11 Kisses Mom, Dad 11 Ralph 
was returning to Puerto Plata, and the last message from the crew was "Stand by." 
Homan's account. however, was disputed by an air traffic controller on duty in the tower Wednesday and by Maj. Alan Arias Batlle, a member of a committee assigned by the country's Civil Aeronautics Of­Ike to investigate the crash. 
"He just ealled in to air traffic eontrollers his position and then the aircraft disappeared from·lhe screen," said the eon­troller, who refused to give his name. 
"All the communication was normal," Arias Batlle said. "In no moment did they speak of an emergency." 
Bound for Frankfurt and Berlin, the Birgenair plane was chosen at the last minute to re­plaee a Boeing 767 owned by Alas which developed mechani­cal trouble, Dominican officials said. 
Birgenair's owner, Gulperi Peri, told The Associated Press that Alas had asked Birgenair to lease the plane because an­other plane, a 767, had techni­eal trouble. The plane was leased Tuesday night to Alas, Peri said. 
She also said there was a re­port that lightning may have struck the jetliner, but investi­gators said no cause had been determined. 
An Alas employee, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the 767 had problems with its landing gear. Mechanics were working on the aircraft at the Puerto Plata airport Wednes­day. 
Hosamarie Meichsner. a spokeswoman for Schoenefeld airport in Berlin, gave a con­flicting account. She said the planes had been switched be­cause the flight was under­booked for a 767, which holds about 300 people. The 757 
.. Jetliner crash 
The Alas Airline charter was carrying German tourists back to 
Berlin and Frankfurt when it crashed shortly after takeoff. There were 189 people 
on-~~-~~· -···· " ___/'1/
~ :!~~··-..........n-~~~~HQ--...8 :·-:.;.~ 
, -,--C.J~J . ~ -···· 
I 

Boeing 757-200 twin engine plane 
ACCOMMODATION: Crew of lwo, five to seven cabin aHendants 
PASSENGERS: Up to 239 
RANGE: 3,200 miles (5, 120 km) 
WING SPAN: 124 ft.10 in. (38.05 m) 
LENGTH: 155 It 3 in. (47.32 m) 
HEIGHT: 44 It 6 in. (13.56 m) 
Source: Jane's All The World's Aircraft 
holds 224 passengers. 
Alas de Transporte lnterna­cional was shut down temporarily in 1993 after fail­ing to meet international safety standards. 
The plane earried 176 pas­sengers, including four ehil­dren, and 13 crew members. Most of the passengers were German tourists, while 11 crew members were Turkish and two were Dominican. 
Aircraft from the U.S. Coast Guard and Navy and the Do­minican military flew low over the crash site Wednesday, di­recting rescue workers in in­flatable boats to bodies. Volun­teer boaters from Puerto Plata and nearby towns joined the search for survivors as rain squalls in the morning gave way to calm seas. 
The bodies were taken to a makeshift morgue at Puerto Plata, protected by heavily 

~i: Caribbean
-'-J ··~ Sea -~ 
~~::;"""' 
Bahamas,, 
Atlantic · •
C:l 
4)11
Ocetm • 

H ITI ""-"""'. 
50 miles 
~ 
50km 
AP armed Dominican guards. 
Coast Guard officials initially said sharks in the crash area prevented divers from entering the water. Later, Coast Guard Cmdr. Tom Nies, part of the search team, said sharks were not hampering the search. 
Still, the water's depth ­about 4,300 feet -makes "normal scuba diving ... im­possible," said Coast Guard Petty Officer Timothy Lavier in San Juan, Puerto Hico. 
The U.S. Navy has offered a dive team to try to retrieve the aircraft's 11.ight data and cockpit voice recorders, he said. 
Dominican Air Force Col. Manuel Mendez Segura said Dominican investigators spectt­lated that the plane struck the water nose down. 
"It's a relatively new aircraft and I believe it did not have prior mechanical problems," Mendez Segura said. 
Roses 
$2999 dozen 
Flower Bouquets 
$9
99 bunch 
I·· Delivered free on campus ··I 
-~~~~·4-?~ 
272-0970 
VISA and MASTERCARD Welcome 
r page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 8, 1996 

•HAm 
President Leader takes power despite waning support 
purges army, police force 
By CHRISTENA COLCLOUGH Associated Press Writer 
GUATEMALA CITY 
In his first week in office, Guatemala's new president fired several top military com­manders and purged more than 100 police officers -kindling hope that Alvaro Arzu would begin to rein in the notorious state security forces. 
Analysts stopped short of say­ing President Arzu is trying to rein in the Guatemalan army, which has dominated civilian governments in this Central American nation since~inilitary rule ended in 1986. 
But he is taking unprece­dented steps to distance himself from Guatemala's security forces. 
The international community and human rights groups ap­plauded Alvaro Arzu's apparent cleansing of the nation's secu­rity forces, which have ap­palling human rights records and have been linked to drug­trafficking, car-theft and kid­napping rings. 
Both Arzu and Defense Minis­ter Gen. Julio Balconi said the changes were routine. On Jan. 19, 118 police officers sus­pected of criminal involvement and corruption were fired. Four top army generals were retired early, and three were tem­porarily suspended. 
But the changes were subject to interpretation. 
Analysts said one wing of the army is trying to improve its image after being blasted for covering up the deaths of U.S. innkeeper Michael DeVine and rebel commander Efrain Sa­maca. Bamaca's American wife, Jennifer Harbury, staged hunger strikes in .Guatemala and Washington to call atten­tion to the army's regular use of torture. 
"It is not Arzu single-hand­edly removing the military high command but it is also a prod­uct of factions struggling within the army," said human rights lawyer Frank LaRue. 
He said the faction leading the army is the so-called "insti­tutional" group, willing to nego­tiate peace with Guatemalan rebels. 
By MICHELLE FAUL nessman, Preval was involved Associated Press in grass-roots organizations against the dictatorship of PORT-AU-PRINCE Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Rene Preval, an agronomist Duvalier in the 1970s and who turned his back on elite so­1980s. He met Aristide, a ciety to fight for democracy, Roman Catholic priest, at a took power Wednesday in the homeless children's center first peaceful and democratic Aristide operated in Port-au­changing of the guard in Haiti. Prince, and the two became 
The event, however, was close friends. overshadowed by challenges he Despite his association with inherits: a population frustrat­Aristide, Preval assumed office ed by continuing poverty; a with a less than overwhelming near-empty treasury and stag­mandate. nant economy; and the prospect Most Haitians boycotted the of imposing unpopular econom­December election Preval won ic austerity to get foreign aid. with 87.9 percent of votes. Only 
And Haitians didn't exactly 27.9 percent of the electorate give him a hearty welcome. voted, apparently because most 
Fewer than 200 people gath­wanted Aristide to stay on even ered outside the white Parlia­though the constitution barred ment building for the inaugura­him from serving two consecu­tion, and they gave Preval, 53, tive terms. a quieter greeting than they "Aristide, we're waiting for gave outgoing President Jean­you in the year 2001," people Bertrand Aristide, 42, Haiti's outside Parliament shouted, re­most popular politician. ferring to the date when the 
An agronomist and busi-next president takes office. 
Preval took the oath of office, swearing to uphold the constitution and the rights of Haiti's 7 million people. 
Aristide symbolically handed over power by placing the red­and-blue presidential sash over Preval' s shoulder. 
The two men embraced, and held hands during the national anthem. 
It was the first peaceful tran­sition of power from one popu­larly elected president to an­other since Haiti declared inde­pendence in 1804. 
U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali sent Preval a letter of congratula­tions, urging him to "continue the progress on the path to­ward democracy." He also sent Aristide a letter commending him on the "great democratic gesture" he made by handing over power. 
In one of his final acts as president, Aristide late Tuesday renewed diplomatic relations with communist Cuba, which had been suspended in 1959. The move was considered a slap to the United States and to President Clinton, who sent 20,000 American troops to Haiti in September 1994 to oust a bloody military regime and restore Aristide to power. 
Aristide was elected in 1990 but overthrown by Haiti's mili­tary in September 1991. In the three years that followed, the army and its auxiliaries killed 4,000 people. 
Aristide disbanded Haiti's military after the U.S. interven­tion, but he kept one remnant: a brass band that played the national anthem Wednesday in spotless white dress uniform. 
When Aristide left the Par­liament, the band played the presidential song for Preval for the first time. Outside, by­standers sang a farewell to Aristide, to the tune of Auld Lang Syne. 
'Anti-smut' law elicits angry response 
Annoyed users protest threat of 'Net censorship 
By JEANNINE A VERSA Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Opponents of legislation re­stricting smut on computer net­works are staging a protest today in cyberspace. 
About 150 people and groups have pledged to turn their home page on the global com­puter network, Internet, "black," said Shabbir Safdar, head of the Voters Telecom­munications Watch, a coordina­tor of the protest. 
What that means is protesters will change the background color of their home page -the electronic equivalent of a call­ing card with lots more infor­mation -to black. 
Voters Telecommunications Watch is an on-line group that organizes grassroots action against what it views as threats to free speech and privacy. The disputed anti-smut provision is contained in a massive telecom­munications bill President Clinton is expected to sign into 
Thinking of doing ayearof service? How about doing it 
for alifetime? 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
law on Thursday. 
The provision would outlaw transmission of indecent and other sexually explicit materials to minors. 
"People around the Net are very concerned this will chill speech," said Jerry Berman, head of the Center for Democ­racy and Technology Policy, a civil liberties group for com­puter users. 
"This protest is a demonstra­tion that many people arc pub­lishers on the Net. ..There is a lot of sentiment and unhappi­ness on the Net to do some­thing," Berman said. 
The protest is expected to last for 48 hours, he said. 
The American Civil Liberties Union intends to challenge the anti-smut provision in federal court, saying it is overly broad and would outlaw electronic transmissions of legal speech, 
·including literature such as "Catcher in the Rye," rap lyrics and profane conversations. 
"Nothing less than the future of free expression in the United States is at stake here," said Ira Glasser, ACLU's executive di­rector. 
Nineteen other groups say they'll be part of ACLU's suit to be filed in a Philadelphia feder­al court Thursday, Glasser said. 
Those other groups include: the National Writers Union, the Journalism Education Associa­tion, Planned Parenthood Fed­eration of America, and Human Rights Watch. 
Other lawsuits are expected from computer users and groups that include the Center for Democracy and Technology Policy and People for the Amer­ican Way. 
Supporters of the anti-smut proposal, led by the Christian Coali"tion, say it regulates speech legally to shield chil­dren. Courts have upheld the constitutionality of such restric­tions for TV and radio broad­casts. 
The protesters are a mix of individuals and organizations, Safdar said. They include the Community Breast Health Pro­ject, Surf Watch, Sonoma State University, the Abortion Hights Activist Page, Internet on Ramp, authors, computer pro­grammers and graphics de­signers. 
BORN/UNBORN 

A ONE-MAN PLAY PRESENTED BY DAN FERRONE. N.D. CLASS OF '59 
TI-ILIRSDAY. FEBRLIARY 8TH 
7P.M. 
\X/ASHINGTON HALL 
A freewill otlcring will be taken to suppol1 the Women's Care Center 

Jus
Sponsored by: 

Vitae (AMPUS 1\/iiNISTRY 

~------------------------------------------------------------------~----------~---­
Thursday, February 8, 1996 The Observer • GOP NOMINATION NEWS page 9 
Candidates focus on Iowa 
Gramm looks to rebound from Louisiana loss 
By TOM RAUM Associarrd Press 
KNOXVILLE, Iowa 
Hepublican candidates stepped up their Iowa cam­paigning Wednesday as the bat­tle for critical GOP caucuses entered its final stage. 
S t e v e Forbes used a shiny rac­ing car as a prop to declare 
"growing~ 
momentum," Dole while a dispirited Sen. Phil Gramm said he'll drop out if dealt another setback. 
"I think it is clear that if I don't get first, second, or third (in Iowa) that is going to knock me out of the race," the Texan told supporters in Des Moines, a day after a humiliating Joss to conservative commentator Pat Buchanan in a Louisiana face­off. 
At a campaign stop at Cedar Hapids later in the day, Buehanan was still relishing Tuesday's victory over Gramm. "Wn beat him in his own back yard," crowed Buchanan. 
In the meantime, front-run­ner Bob Dole courted Iowans from afar, staying in Washing­ton to help bring to harvest long-awaited farm legislation. lie told a Des Moines radio sta­tion that "by day's end, we will have passed the most signifi­cant farm bill since" the 1930s. lie said he would be back in Iowa campaigning on Thursday night. 
Iowa's GOP caucus on Mon­day will be the first national 
COMING TOA CUSHING 
NEAR YOU!!!! 
HOW TO MAKE AN 

ERICAN UILT 
Friday and Saturday 
8l10:30p.n1. Sunday 2p.m. $2.00 w.m.. 
See It With The Quilt You Love!!!!!! 
test of all the candidates' rela­tive strength. And with the day fast approaching, campaign activity picked up. 
Forbes, who like Dole and most other GOP candidates boy­cotted Tuesday's Louisiana con­test out of deference to Iowa, conceded the possibility that the Louisiana results had given Buchanan a boost here. 
"He's a formidable candi­date," the multimillionaire pub­lisher said, then turned some of the harsh rhetoric he has used on other rivals on Buchanan. "lie has a Fortress America mentality," Forbes told re­porters. "He is pessimistic about our ability to compete in the world. I have faith in America.'' 
Forbes traveled to the Na­tional Sprint Car Hall of Fame to campaign among local resi­dents of Knoxville, a community about 40 miles southeast of Des Moines and the site of the annu­al national sprint car races. 
Standing in front of a shiny red sprinter in the museum, Forbes said the racer was "a symbol of our gaining momen­tum." 
Asked by one of the 40 or so people in the audience how he, with no political background or experience, could overcome gridlock in Washington if elect­ed, Forbes said: "When I get to the White House. we will work with the Congress. We won't be playing the games we're play­ing today." He said he hoped to win "an unmistakable man­date." 
Gramm, meanwhile, attended a rally at the state capitol in Des Moines originally planned to celebrate a Louisiana victory. But, instead, he found himself trying to explain away his loss to Buchanan and his missing of a crucial vote on the farm bill. 
With Iowa's caucuses less than a week away, rivals said he made a possibly fatal blun­der in campaigning in Louisiana instead of returning to Washington Tuesday for an important farm-bill roll call that failed by a single vote. 
Gramm worked hard to lay the blame on Dole, the Senate majority leader. 
"Bob Dole, when he set the vote yesterday, knew with abso­lute certainty that I wouldn't be there," Gramm said at a news conference. '"It was a classic case of Bob Dole playing poli­tics." 
Gramm risked criticism anew by declining for a second time Wednesday to return to Wash­ington for a final vote on the farm bill. He said his presence wasn't needed because a "deal has already been cut. They don't need my vote. I'm here running for president." 
Dole, in a jab at Gramm, said, "Everybody has to make their decision whether to campaign or be in the Senate." 
While farm legislation draws little attention in many places, it's viewed as essential in Mid­western states like Iowa. 
At the White House, presiden­tial spokesman Mike McCurry offered some sympathy to Gramm, without mentioning him by name. "I know what it feels like to be in that position," he said. "Dead." McCurry was an aide to unsuccessful Demo­cratic candidate Sen. Bob Ker­rey of Nebraska in 1992. 
Indiana Sen. Dick Lugar, who like Dole made a point of stay­ing in Washington to vote on the farm bill, commented in a statement that "This bill is truly landmark change for American farming." 
Former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander, expected to be back in the state on Thurs­day campaigning, issued a statement taking on both Dole and Forbes. 
"Sen. Dole and Mr. Forbes offer only the insider world of Washington and Wall Street," he wrote. 
Momentum surge carries Buchanan as caucus nears 
By GREG SMITH 
Associated Press 
CEDAR RAPIDS 
Flush from victory in the Louisiana caucuses, Hepubli­can presidential candidate Pat Buchanan urged disgruntled Democrats, independents and abortion foes to join his cause in Iowa. 
"It is time to unite behind the conservative who can win this Hepublican nomination," Buchanan said. ''I'm urging the right-to-life voters in Iowa, of whom there are many, and social conservatives to unite behind the strongest pro-life candidate in this race who can win." 
Buchanan was greeted by about two dozen well-wishers as he made his way to a news conference, many of them shouting, "Go, Pat, Go!" and breaking out into applause as he stopped to shake hands and chat. 
He clearly relished Tuesday's victory in Louisiana over fellow GOP contender Phil Gramm in which he cap­tured 13 of 21 delegates, say­ing it represented a "landslide victory" in the Texas senator's back yard. 
Coupled with a victory in an Alaska·straw poll, Buchanan declared, ''I'm the only fellow in the field with a 2-0 record." 
"There's no question that the tremendous, the shocking nature of the upset of Senator Gramm and the staggering nature of our victory is going to have a dramatic impact on Iowa conservatives who are divided and Iowa right-to-lif­ers who are divided," Buchanan said. 
''I'm the populist candidate who can beat Bill Clinton. We ask you to rally behind this conservative cause." 
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and other GOP candi­dates bypassed the Louisiana race. Buchanan denied his victory was the result of help from Dole aimed at derailing Gramm. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

"My guess is we have the good wishes of Senator Dole, but beyond that I don't know of any assistance," Buchanan said. "I don't know of any organized support we had down there. I don't believe there was any. We did this one ourselves. We worked for it day in and day out. We deserve the credit." 
Looking ahead to Monday's Iowa caucuses, where he admitted he had ground to make up, Buchanan urged supporters of other candi­dates, ineluding anti-abortion candidate Alan Keyes, to get behind him. 
"I think there's a real poten­tial for, if you will, a sort of a landslide effect in the tremen­dous number of undecided voters coming down in the last five days behind the conserva­tive who can carry that mes­sage and who can win," Buchanan said. 
lie warned against un­derestimating Gramm's prospects in Iowa, calling him "the most tenacious, tireless campaigner I've ever seen." 
Buchanan said Dole remains the "man to beat" but added that "we've got a fighting chance to do very, very well out here." 
"I don't think the Re­publican Party wants to nomi­nate Bob Dole," Buchanan said. "That's an arranged marriage. I think they want to nominate and choose someone else who's got a vision and who can lead the party into battle against Bill Clinton." 
Buchanan said he would begin running ads leading up to the caucuses and that he anticipates harsh attack ads from publisher Steve Forbes in response. 
Speaking of the ads Forbes has run against other GOP candidates, Buchanan said, "I've seen these ads and the treatment of Dole and Gramm and Lamar (Alexander). You Know, those fellow must feel like the Iraqi army with all those air strikes." 
---~----­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, February 8, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Porter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ..................... .Jen Mackowiak Sports Editor ............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .........•.......... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Business Office 631-53I3 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63I-454I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 63I-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63I-8839 News/Photo 63I-5323 Office Manager 63I-747I Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
Getting lost in the shufne ofthe 90's 
I see generation X is getting a lot of attention again. Maybe it's the election year, with all the aged mummies lum­bering around and trying, in their hor­rific way, to attract young voters. (They should live so long.) Now I see that a man gave a speech yesterday discussing the growing apathy of young people in America. And exhibit three, most lu­dicrous of all, may be found at the bot-

tom of this page. 
Take a look. Do you see Doonesbury, sitting there in its usual spot? Now read it. Now I ask you, has Gary Trudeau lost his mind? Trudeau, usually the last word in smarty-pants baby-boomer political wit, has had his alter-ego Mike Doonesbury sign up for Steve Forbes. Steve Forbes! 
This cretinous nerd, whose only cam­paign issue is, for all intents and purpos­es, the elimination of taxes on the rich, represents precisely the sort of person Doonesbury exists to criticize. And criti­cize him it did, last week. All the Republicans were lampooned, to varying degrees, in an tedious satire about a New Hampshire farmer and his wife entertaining primary candidates. About as funny as cancer, I grant you, but at least he was on the right side of things. Now here is Mike Doonsebury, with his bloated new income, working for Steve Forbes and scamming on a new "love interest." 
You will see, in panel one, Kim Rosenthal, Trudeau's hopeless attempt 
• Dm.lNESBURY 
IMKIM 
ROSCNlHAL., 
BYTHEtuAY. I'M IN COOIN6. 
at a portrait of the new breed of infor­mation-age movers. How could he get so unhip? Gary Trudeau, apparently, like so many people his age, have been bamboozled into believing all the hype about computers. The phrase "the web" is as much a shibboleth to them as "thai stick" might have been to their parents, and the prefix "cyber" a free pass to the twenty-first century. To people like this, every obese technician looking up Braves statistics is Captain Nemo at his organ, a powerful and mysterious pres­ence whose works surpasses under­standing. So far has Gary Trudeau gone that he can't even work up a passable imitation of "gen-x" speech -he has Kim Rosenthal saying, "as if," a phrase I guarantee he never heard before the movie "Clueless" and has never heard from human lips since. 
I think we are all gearing up for a wave of alienation. This happens to most people in election years, but young people most of alL (I am bracketing out prisoners, gang members, cultists, para­military types, and christian conserva­tives, since they don't count as part of the larger society). In the inflated, belli­cose language of a campaign against a Democratic incumbent, all the possible lines of tension are exploited: between college students and the lower middle class (i.e., the working class), between it and the upper middle-class (which is to say, the rich); between both classes and those in transition between the two ­tense homeowners who constitute the most volatile element in the mix. 
Add to this the morality fetishists, who 
vote (and worse still, organize) on the 
basis of such issues as abortion, anti-gay 
legislation, or how many people you can 
kill on prime time, and you have a cul­
tural environment where young people, 
who have little at stake morally or mate­
rially in the outcome, can only appear as 
apathetic hipsters. Gary Trudeau has 
just gotten lost in the shuffle, but he 
should have known better. 
* * * 
Fighting Irish fans from Belfast to Bejing have waited for our 1996 recruits to be announced, and now the happy day is finally here! Through my special connections at the Athletic Director's office, I have managed to get the names of some of our more stellar recruits, and have spoken to them about just why they selected the Golden Dome over other, easier, schools to attend. 
Rick Weems, OT, Little Sisters of Poverty and Pain High, Kenosha, WI: "I needed a place where I could feel at home. A school with a catholic char­acter, where I would be mercilessly chastised for the smallest error, and jeered by old men for every shortcom­ing." 
Jarrod Martin, DE, Benjamin Banneker High School, Queens NY: "I was impressed by the skills of Doctors Moriarity and Leary, and the fact that no pretty hostesses claimed to be "turned on by scar tissue" as at some other schools I visited." 
Herschel Konigsberg, P, Chaim Ben Pesach High School, Miami Beach FL: "We don't have snow in Miami Beach, and as soon as I arrived in South Bend and saw the white coating of freezing white powder on everything, my thoughts turned to morbidity and death. But God made shoulders, and burdens too, as Maimonides says, and besides, I wanted to be on TV all the time." 
Dirk Sunbeam, QB, Santa Monica H.S.: "I've got a cannon for an arm, and I knew Notre Dame was the kind of place where a quarterback like me can really flourish. Standing heroically in the shot­gun, whipping passes downfield to my quick receivers, I'm going to redefine the way Notre Dame plays footbalL" 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
TNO YEARS... &V&R.5/Nai MIT 8tC/JJ OFr MY alA~ 7VO COMP 50 P/1.0. MUCH~ 
ATM.LT.... 
I \ 
(note: at the time of writing, none of the above recruits had formalized their commitment to Notre Dame.) 
* * * 
I was lurking around O'Shaughnessy Hall blankly the other day, when I came across a flyer announcing that Seven, the Morgan Freeman/Brad Pitt thriller, was shown at the Cushing Auditorium the other night. Holy Cow! I know Notre Dame considers itself avante­garde, but this is going too far. Seven is, hands-down, the most brutal movie I have seen in years. And it has a real down ending. I hope I'm not spoiling the movie for you by telling you that it ends with the murderer winning and dying a painless death of his own choos­ing. 
Why can't they learn to punish these villains better? I think most Americans would feel a lot better about themselves if we could get some real catharsis going at the cineplex. You can't just show some evil killer going around torturing and murdering helpless victims (often women) and then expect an audience to be pleased when he is shot by the hero in the last scene. Damn it, I want to see him suffer! 
They should extend these films by half an hour, and show them in the state pen, being brutalized by other inmates. Then you should get to see them cooked in a microwave. I can keep warm at night just thinking of things to do to the murderer in Seven. But I can't do them! I need Hollywood to do it for me, and absolve me of any complicity! Damn it! Can't they figure something this simple out? 
Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in history. His e-mail address is Joshua. a. Ozersky 1 @nd. edu 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Democracy means gov­
ernment by discussion but it is only effective if you can stop people talking." 
-Clement Attlee 
VIEWPOINT
Thursday, February 8, 1996 page 11 
• Goo 'N LIFE 
Been there. Done that. (Senior eitiz1ms' versions add the phrase, "Can't rnmember. ") This whole mentality presents a challenge to the up-and-eoming gennration. 
As we deliberate on just what our goals for life are in regards to career, family and locale, we must also deeidn how mueh of the gusto WI' want to grab. Do we feel the need to try absolutely everything just onee, for the experi­ence'! 
Sueh an atti­tude might be considerlld 11xtreme. And extrnmists are not usually well-liked. Being extreme sometimes is equat­f!d with putting om1self or others in danger. A better recommendation would be to keep moderation as partofanyendeavor. 
I mean, unless it's really neces­sary, should someone climb Mt. Kilimanjaro? 
The point is, I suppose, that doing something just to say it's been done is a bit ridiculous. Jesus didn't die on the Cross because 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Julie Ferarro 
someone dared llim to. Mother Teresa and her Sisters of Charity don't pick the dying from the streets of Calcutta and the world on a bet. 
The "why" of things is impor­tant. If a friend was pinned in a wrecked car, sure we'd try to res­cue him, no matter what the risk. To be willing to give of ourselves ­time and tal­ent -to help others better their lives, be it through the Urban Plunge or at the Center for the Homeless, or just tutoring a classmate who's having difficulty with 
biology: these may sound like "tame" activities, but there can be excitement and adventure involved, mental and physical. 
"I'm still young," comes the protest. "I have a lot of wild oats to sow." There's nothing wrong with that! It's simply a matter of being true to the moral values instilled in us (hopefully) by school and parents, and by determining if what we plan to do will bring harm to anyone (using drugs, or drinking too much are examples). These considerations will dictate where these "wild oats" are sown. 
As a person grows older or matures, one fact remains clear: the more responsibility one has, the less likely he or she will be do any of those "crazy" things dreamed about as a teen or young adult. 
. God gave us youth and energy to achieve and learn from a multitude of accomplishments. There's no harm in setting goals before setting "goals". It is perfectly reasonable to want to spend a fall break in Spain, say, before you graduate from this hallowed institution. That type of dream requires advance planning -money, pass­port, tickets, etc.-but it is doable. Maybe one would prefer a summer working on a cruise ship. Later, other more permanent goals can be established, like whether to follow a religious vocation (always a possi­bility). It's okay, in other words, to have "been there, done that" -just think first. 
Julie Ferarro is secretary in the Freimann Life Science Center 
The joys and travails of philosophizing in Wilmington 
Dear Editor: 
Gnmtings from the beach! I miss you all and hope you're having a great year on eampus. As many of you may know by now, I am officially on sabbatical this year, living in Wilmington, North Carolina and explor­ing llflW ways to serve the world as a philosopher. I rwoded some time off from my normal teaching sched­ule to reeuperatn from the consequences of a near fa­tal bout of food poisoning (a neuro-toxin called "ciguat­era" I ingested from eating a piece of boiled grouper 
two years ago, a life thrnatening illness from whieh I have finally experi­enced complete recovery). I also needed some extra ti mn to write, as well as thn ehanee to explore what seemed to b11 a new calling 
T
in my life. his time last year I sud­denly and inexplicably began feeling that the next stage of my own adventure was awaiting me in Wilmington, NC-a city I knew very little about, but that is eonvtmiently located at the eoast, a setting that I personally love. I sensed that I was being called to pio­neer some new ways of being a philosopher here at the close of the century, and that I had to be prepared to launch out into something very different from anything I have ever experienced. 
I moved to Wilmington last June and have been busy ever since discovering new ways to serve a broader social role as a contemporary philosopher. As many of you know, I began giving talks otT campus a few years ago, and could never have imagined where it would lead. Having been too afraid to fly to even get on an airplane from 1982-1989, I have ended up traveling on over four hundred planes in just the last twelve months, bringing philosophy into the lives of people almost everywhere you can imagine. I am learning a tremendous amount about how the ideas of the great thinkers ean apply to the challenges people face now, and I am growing in my ability to bring a measure of what we have done together in the classroom over the years to individuals in every walk of life. 
A short time ago, I wrote the Philosophy department to officially let them know that I think I'm supposed to stay put in my home state at this point and continue the new journey I've begun. This means giving up my status as a full professor in one of the greatest depart­ments in thtl world, giving up the rare, guaranteed life­time employment of academic tenure, a fully paid Notre Dame education for my children, and great health, retirement, and insurance benefits. But I'm convinced that we are not here in this world primarily to chase or cling to guarantees of security and pres­tige, however wonderful they might be. We're here to make our individual contributions to our fellow human beings in tiHl best way we can, wherever that may take us, and whatever that may demand of us. 

W
hen I wrote my letter of resignation, I did not think of any of those economic or professional benefits I was giving up. I thought of you. I found myself sitting at my desk with vivid memories of great classroom experiences flooding through my mind, and tears welling up in my eyes. A wave of sadness and a sense of loss washed over me. B
A kaleidoscope of images tumbled through my con­sciousness. I remembered when members of the marching band played the Victory March before one of our exams. I recalled our corny near death experience re-enactments, the silly robot "Ari Corder" who helped me teach artificial intelligence with the worst electrici­ty and computer jokes ever told, the day on miracles when my spoken wish was suddenly fulfilled by Dominos delivering a pizza to the library auditorium during class when it was impossible, many hours before they opened, the course theme songs played by the Rippingtons, the uncounted thousands of dollars I spent on Snickers bars over the years, the reliable hilarity of your comments on Early Course Evaluations about how we might improve the class, the times I brought my old guitar out of mothballs and hope I could get my old fingers, weakened by years of writers' cramp, to play a little touch of Stevie Ray, or Eric for you, and the "flashes of intellectual insight, the emo­tional connections, and the drama of those occasional moments when time seemed to stand still and we all for a flash were transported far beyond the normal psychology of a college classroom into the most impor­tant issues of our lives. ut most of all, as I sat and wrote my letter to the Philosophy Department, I remembered your faces. I saw you in DeBartolo, in the Library Auditorium, on the walkways of campus. and in all the rooms we've met in over the years. And it was very hard to do what I knew I had to do. 
I want you all to know that I Jove you guys, and that nothing I do as a philosopher will ever be more impor­tant to me than what we have done together over the years. I'm not going on to something that I value over you. It's important to me that you understand that. I'm just responding to a deeply felt calling to take what I've learned from my years with you and put it to a brand new use. I want to find new ways to serve you, when your four, or six, or eight years in the shadow of the dome are up, and you're out in the world making your mark, and I will still always look for new ways to serve Notre Dame when my fifteen years of professorship are officially up. I will never cease to feel a strong connec­tion with you an with the special, early magical univer­sity that brought us together. 
Of course, it doesn't hurt my ability to march boldly forward that I've been called to my new adventure, of all places, at the beach. let me give you an idea of my new life down here. I'll snag a fairly typical day out of the calendar: January 23, 1996. 
In the morning, I woke up, as usual, to bright sun­shine, pulled on a T -shirt and drove the kids to school. Returning home, I spent a few hours working on a new book, breaking up the time with a short walk along the Intracoastal Waterway. For lunch, my wife and I went to sit on the sand and eat on the beach, watching 
T
dozens of pelicans and sea gulls swooping by. Then we walked along the edge of the sparkling blue Atlantic, breathing the fresh saiL air, admiring the frothy white­caps as the waves thundered at our feet, and talking about life. It was a little breezy, so I wore a light jacket at first, but I got too hot and had to take it off-an expe­rience I don't think I ever had on a January 23rd in South Bend. Back at the house, I spent the afternoon on phone calls, correspondence, and then more writ­ing, then capped it off with a half hour of Frisbee out­doors with my son and a vigorous hour in the new weight room at our nearby club. hat night, I picked my daughter up from a basket­ball game at her school. As soon as she got into the car, she said, "Dad, let's put the top down. Can we?". We lowered the lid on the new RMW 325i Philosophymobile and took in a dazzling night sky full of bright, twinkling stars as we drove slowly home. There are really amazingly many stars in the sky down here. J:m not sure I ever noticed before. 
I miss many things about South Bend, Indiana, but as you might guess, I lind a lot to enjoy about the new routine here in Wilmington-when I'm not in Orlando, Miami, Houston, San Diego, Boston, New York, Phoenix, or Maui bringing philosophy and people together. 
Despite the fact that I now live a thousand miles from campus, I really do hope to see you all again, in one of these new classroom locations, maybe at a meeting with Merill Lynch, Deloitte and Touche, Mercedes Benz, the American Hospital Association, First Data Corporation, Taco Bell, Ryder Trucks, or any other philosophically attuned company you might decide to work for. Perhaps even on a college campus, or at a huge professional convention. At a resort hotel. Or on the beach. 
Visit Wilmington sometime. It's a beautiful little place of sixty thousand people that surprisingly has become Hollywood East, making more movies and TV shows than any other location in the country outside LA. You can come here to talk philosophy, to eat lunch with a few of your favorite stars, or to get your first part in a feature film. 
I
Or if you ever just spot me in an airport, make sure to call out my name and we'll take a little time to phi­losophize together again as we with for our connec­tions, or rush o our planes. Wherever you go, and whatever you do, I want to somehow always continue to be your philosopher. t was important for me to write you to say all this. Thanks for all the great memories, and for all that I've learned from all of you. And for any faculty and staff who see this letter, the same goes for you! Thank you for making many years of my life absolutely amaz­ing. Oh, and just one more thing ...... Go Irish!!!!! 
TOM MORRIS Professor of Philosophy Morris Communications 1187 Coast Village Road Suite 312 Montecito, CA, 93108 
-
--------------------------------------------. 
;ACCENT
page 12 Thursday, February 8, 1996 
• ALBUM REVIEW 


Victoria Williams and the Loose Band 
This Moment in Toronto 
Mammoth Records 
****1
out of five 
By TIM BAYNE 
Music Critic 
v:
ctoria Williams is the child Tom Waits and Flannery O'Connor never had. Set in The South with a cast of truly memorable individuals, her songs are self­contained commentaries on the human condition; always insightful, always provocative, always compelling. Somehow Williams manages to marry a childlike sense of wonder ("once in a while you open up just like a child, and see things brand new"), with an engaging portrait of the underbelly of creation ("she lived on a curve in the road, in an old tar paper shack/ on the south side of the town, on the wrong side of the tracks"). It comes as no surprise that her name is not a household one ­talents such as hers resist easy packaging. A benefit album released in 1993 (Sweet Relief, Chaos Records) demonstrated the respect in which Williams is held by her peers, as the likes of Soul Asylum, Pearl Jam, Lou Reed, Matthew Sweet, The Waterboys, and Michelle Shocked covered songs off her previous two albums. Loose (1994) fotmd a wider audience for Williams; hopefully This Moment in Toronto will continue to find new fans for this unduly neglected songsmith. 
Recorded in Toronto's Bathurst Street Theatre last March, This Moment captures Williams and her Loose band performing some of the standout tracks from her three studio albums. The Loose band are as tight as one would expect and give Williams plenty of room to dictate the pace of proceedings. Without Williams, the songs would exhibit a saccharine sentimentality worthy of the house band on the Love Boat. Williams transforms them into windows on eternity. 
"Waterfall," a track taken from Loose is an ode to nature worthy of a Whitman or a Rousseau. "A flower took off of a limb and into the sky/ how was I to know it was a bird if I'd have rushed on by/ a waterfall half-full of sand falls on my head/ someone might be talking but I can't tell what they said." Only a scandalous transparency allows Williams to get away with such sentiments without sacrificing her gritty sense of realism. She's one of the few pop artists who can sing about love without conjuring up images of bumper sticker hearts and "Singled Out." Williams' vision is at once universal and concrete. The audience is invited to participate in narratives that are particular but never parochial. The audience is invited to enter the moral world of Williams' characters but is given no room for moralism. 
Musically, This Moment straddles a number of genres; brass-punctuated rock is sandwiched between folksy ditties and country twang, drippy bossa grooves give way to a big Hammond sound and sitar licks, while cabaret-style tunes ("Polish Those Shoes," "TC") mix with spooky tales of loners and losers ('Graveyard," "Crazy Mary"). Williams even finds time to improvise a song to her dog Mollie, who wan­ders onto the stage in the course of the evening. It's all there, and it's all held together by Williams' captivating performance. Although Williams sounds like she is a seasoned veteran of the stage floor, she confesses mid-way through the set that this is her first tour. 
The one shortcoming with the album is the inclusion of three covers: "Imagination," "Smoke Gets in your Eyes," and "Can't Cry Hard Enough." Each of these is more than pleasant, and especially in the case of "Imagination," suits both Williams' voice and persona. However, it seems a shame that Williams chose to look to the material of others when her own corpus is so strong. 
Simone Weil once wrote that it takes true genius to represent the good without making it look fake and phony. In an age when the artistic community as a whole seems content to either simply describe the nihilism of the present age or to retreat into the narrow corridor of romantic love, it is indeed refreshing to find a singer who points to the good without consigning herself to the irrelevant margins of soci­ety. Magical stories told with gusto, verve and obvious delight, Victoria's Wide-Eyed Adventure is truly her own. 
• AlBUM REVIEW 
CHISEL CARVES OUT THEIR NICHE 
Chisel 
8 A.M. All Day 
****'IJ 
out of five 
C
hisel should make you prouder to say that you attend Notre Dame than the 1995 Football team. It boggles the mind to see how far the boys have progressed from their Dome days. On the 1991 Jericho Sessions CD, an infant Chisel introduced itself with the rocker "Swamp Fox/Spike," in which Ted Leo borrowed heavily from D.C. punk roots. On subsequent releases, Chisel showed huge potential, but still seemed to rely on the Jawbox songbook when it came to songwriting. The pre­diction made in the Jericho liner notes­"They'll be accepting awards, selling out stadiums"-still seemed uncertain. Yet, the post-graduation tunes hinted at an underlying pop-tip with catchier hooks and broader vocal ranges. 
Now in 1996, Chisel has finally arrived. The band has defined its own sound and it's by far the best music to come out of Notre Dame in years (sorry to disappoint X-Ray Roger Jimmy). As it turns out, Ted Leo, Chris Norborg, and John Dugan's stints at WVFI are more helpful in the real world than are their diplomas. Also, the booklet art also bears striking resemblance to early '90s Observer editorial cartoon art. However, do not think my praises of the band arise from any loyalty to this University and its music "scene." Chisel truly is one of the best indie-pop-rock bands in this fine nation. 
In the recent pop world, music has been a bit stagnant. Oasis, Blur, and other Brits seem content to replay songs from their predecessors in the '60s, '70s, and '80s. Concurrently, in the States, indie-pop bands continue to wal­low in self-created "lo-fi" credibility. Guided By Voices, Folk Implosion, and their comrades believe that analog tape hiss and live recordings will cover the fact that they're replaying 60's pop songs. Also, with bands like Green Day, Bad Religion, and countless other Epitaph and Lookout!_ bands, the word "pop" is too often chained by hyphen to "punk." Thankfully, Chisel has arrived. 
8 A.M. All Day mixes the mod-pop sound of the last three decades with the quick, clean guitar work and driving drums of the recent albums by rock heroes Fugazi and Jawbox. It's sheer ecstasy to hear those punk influences mix with Chris Norborg's back-up Bah­Bahs, Oh-Wows, and Ahhhs on "What About Blighty?" and "Je M'Appelle Zero." While the repeating second gui­tar line on "Looking Down At The Great Wall of China" sounds like an offspring of Fugazi's "Bed for the Scraping" and mid-sixties Beatles, every single last song on 8 A.M. All Day will have you jumping around your dorm and trying on tight pants. 
"Citizen of Venus" stands out as one the best tracks on the album. It's music you'd hear in the waiting room of the hippest indie dentist in the entire District of Columbia. The slower, pulsing guitars and soprano, along with echoed backup vocals answers the question of what Sgt. Pepper's would sound like if it was released on Dischord records. Plus, Ted Leo name-checks South Bend, and recalls the "Indiana winter" we're stuck in now. The jump-up-and-down, sing­along "Hip Straits" also has to be one of the best songs released in recent histo­ry. Ted and Chris's rising vocals lift up your head, and immediately the guitar, base, and drum drop the melody back down, forcing your head to bop and nod in rapture. These are just two supreme examples of how Chisel packs so many 

Photo courtesy ol Lanie Pilnock 
hooks and intricate details in each song; an utterly unbelievable talent for a three-piece. 
Chisel hasn't yet lived up to the JtJricho Sessions' prediction of stadium rockers. In fact, as of last week they're still jamming in basements on Angela for fortunate students. But, who in their right mind would want to spoil Chisel's incredible live sound by sticking them in a stadium? After all, I bet the Beatles were way more fab in dirty, stuffed Liverpool bars. 
-by Brent DiCrescenzo 



~-----­
Thursday, February 8, 1996 
ACCENT 
• ALBUM REVIEW 
PASSIONLESS PELE 
w.
en Tori the eighteen, there Amos set are three short (short u t to as in one and a half rocord her third minutes) filler songs album /Joys For Pele, that have no right or she intended to reason to be shoved exprnss her own ere­in the middle of two ativl~ freedom. full length songs. It Unfortunately, she would be understand­was better ofT when able if Tori threw other people were them into the mix as helping her. /Joys an uplifting experi­For Pete lacks the ence, but, if anything, passion of her dnbut, they make the album Uttle Earthquakes, more tiresome. and tlw energy of Finally, the lyrics lwr follow-up, Under are as incoherent and The Pink. meaningless as 
In her bio, Amos Sanskrit to the aver­
proudly proclaims, "I age person. It seems knew that there that Amos is once w1~r1) places where again directing her I'd •wver let myself voice at religious and go musically and sexual issues but 
lyrically in the past. '"'-----=-------'-~....;...___ __.. This time around, I Tori Amos 
could push myself to exploro IH~yond Boys nor ~ele 
those boundaries." Tori, you should Atlantic Records hav1~ stayed honw on * 
this one. It appnars that 
out of five 
wlwn Amos ven­
tured outside of her eomfortahln conlinns, which she so masterfully eon­struetnd with Little Earthquakes and Under The Pink, she was lost, helpless, and in dire need of someone or sonwthing to fall back on. On Boys For Pete, she found this something in her previous recordings. The album is not cn~ative; at least not when compared to the standards she set with her earlier albums. With the exception of two tracks, a resurgence of songs like "llappy Phantom" and "God" are blended into the 'new' Tori Amos. 
And what of this new Tori? She has lost her passion and energy both musically and lyrically. Boys For Pete is, to say tlw least, a boring album. First of all, the 1~ight1~en tracks move at a snail's pace. Second, out of 
• 
H
orn's an interesting 1~oncept: a band ealled Loud Lucy that isn't aetually really loud. but only moderately so. Maybe they should nmanw thnmselvns Mild Lucy. l>nfinitnly not Easy­Listnning Lucy; these guys know how to make the music hit like a ton of bricks when it has to. 
On their debut DGC ndease, !Jreathe, Loud Lucy teams up with infa­mous Chicago producer Brad Wood to add an in­ll~rnsting nnw chapter to thn never-ending saga of tlw pownr-pop trio. Building upon an acoustic foundation and employing more rapid time changes than tlw averuge Nirvana done, Loud Lucy fills uppl1~nty of space with only L---......c:.:.~l:li!liillli!lll 
three instruments. Not that the music is particu­larly challenging or inac­cessible-hooks are any­thing hut lacking on Breathe and guitar solos are not forgotten. It's the quirky drumming of Mark Doyle, however, that 
Loud Lucy 
Breathe 
DGC Records 
***~ 
out of five 
"Doughnut Song," both of which squeeze out some vision of where Amos wanted to go creatively with this album. "Caught A Lite Sneeze" is an upbeat song that thankfully arrives in the middle of the album (if you make it that far) whereas "Doughnut Song," which comes near the end, is slower but brilliant musically as the instruments collide in euphoric harmony. Ah! Memories of the beauty of "Little Earthquakes." 
Boys For Pete is neither the expected, nor is it one of those alburns like U2's Zooropa which everyone trashed but then accepted because it grew on them. Sorry Tori, maybe you shouldn't have been so hasty to release this. It's definitely not up to your potential. 
-by Christian Stein 
does so without the simplicity and clarity she had on her previ­ous albums, making her songs impossible to understand. 
The only redeeming factors on Boys For Pete are her first sin­gle, "Caught A Lite Sneeze,"and 
Fortunately, the skit­tish arrangements of the songs do keep the ears from becoming com­pletely bored. "Ticking," the captivating opening track, occupies the lis­tener with playful guitar­drum interplay. "Over Me," the second track, has a similar effect, going from fast to slow and back with sensitivity and force in sync. Acoustic guitars soothe the transitions between the louder and softer sections and appear as fills on the ballads, "On the Table" and "Meet You Down," but the elec­tric guitar is the primary vehicle of expression here as Lane proves he is as capable at soloing as he is at producing fresh hooks. 
Only a few minor items detract from the com­plete enjoyment of Breathe. For starters. it's awfully short; a few more songs would help folks feel they got their money's worth. And page 13 

-Tragic Kingdom 
3. 
Radioheald -Just (for College) 

4. 
Tripmaster Monkey -Practice Applications 


5. 
Possum Dixon -Star Maps 

6. 
Oasis -(What's the Story) Morning Glory? 

7. 
Everclear -Sparkle and Fade 


8. Spacehog -Resident Alien 
-....
9. 22 Brides-Beaker , 
10. Smashing Pumpkin~t:_ Mellon Collie & the Infinite Sadness 
11. 
Red Hot Chili Peppers -One H~ Minute 

12. 
Fat Nut­

13. 
Supple-.,..r ..._,.,~, 

14. 
Swiftly -uu,uu,,t,n~­

15. 
Iodine -Ma'XinlftltrJO 

16. 
Alice In '"'.......4"·' 


1 
-. 
Top SO 


-Boys for Pele 
2. 
Ministri -Filth Pig 

3. 
Oasis-(What's the Story) Morning Glory? 

4. 
Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 

5. 
Bush -Sixteen Stone 

6. 
Smashing Pumpkins -Mellon Collie 


& The Infinite Sadness 
7. Easy E-STR 8 
8. Seven Mary Three ~American 
..... 
Standard .•c 
9. 
Blues Traveler -Four ,~ 

10. 
Aimee Mann-I'm With Stupid · 

11. 
Presi4ents of th~~Y~~A -Self-titled 


.,;,:. :::_,q?:··:·t····
12. Natalie Mercha:Jil iTigerlily 
-

makes this album rise above the ordinary. Doyle, in perfeet command of the tempo dynamics, creates infeetious little pop ditties. 
Spnaking of tempo, it seems appropriate to mentirm that time is a central theme on Breathe. Time and how it affects relationships are matters which singer/guitarist Christian Lane appears to have mulled over eonsiderably while writing Breathe. Although these are not worthless topics, a little variety would have helped to alleviate the motif monotony. 
while bassist Tommy Furan does a competent job of anchoring the deep end, he isn't given ample opportu­nity to strut his stuff. Finally, this endeavor betrays the group's relative inexperience at the whole studio album game. Enlisting Brad Wood was a big plus, but hopefully the next album will show a maturity in the song writing department which will complement the ability to pen guitar riffs. 
-by Dominic DeVito 
------~-~~ 
·-page 14 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 8, 1996 

-· 
I ­

Sixers shock Pacers 
Associated Press half, including 2-for-4 on 3-layup and two 3-pointers, the point shots. last one following Grant Hill's 
Jerry Stackhouse scored 30 Reggie Miller had 19 points block of Penny Hardaway's points and Derrick Alston and Rik Smits 17 for Indiana, shot. added a career-high 24 as the which at 31-16 is off to its best Hill finished with 19 points Philadelphia 76ers surprised start ever. for Detroit, enabling the Pistons the Indiana Pacers 102-101 to go into the All-Star break 23­Wednesday night. Pistons 97 Magic 83 22. 
Clarence Weatherspoon had Hardaway and Dennis Scott 20 points for Philadelphia, Allan Houston scored 31 each had 16 points for Orlando, which had lost 11 of its previ­points and the Detroit defense O'Neal and Horace Grant each ous 12 games. Mark Jackson turned in a record fourth quar­had 15. had 20 points for the Pacers, ter, holding the Orlando Magic 

who had won nine of their last to a club-low one basket and Bucks 93, Raptors 88 10 and had beaten Philadelphia seven points in a 97-83 Pistons seven straight times. victory Wednesday night. Sherman Douglas scored 21 
The 76ers led 89-79 on a It was the lowest quarter ever points Wednesday night, in­layup by Alston with 8 1/2 min­for Orlando, breaking the mark cluding two key field goals with utes left, but Indiana went on a of 10 points. It also was the less than two minutes remain­14-1 spurt and took a 93-90 worst field goal quarter in club ing, leading Milwaukee to a 93­lead on a corner jumper by history; the previous low was 88 victory over the Toronto Ricky Pierce with 4:38 to play. three. Raptors. 
After Jackson made a layup, The previous best for It was Mike Dunleavy's 100th the 76ers went on an 8-1 run, Detroit's defense was a low of win as Bucks coach. and two free throws by Vernon eight points, last accomplished The Raptors. who entered the Maxwell with 30.8 seconds left in 1992. fourth quarter trailing 7 4-6 7, gave Philadelphia a 100-96 The Magic went without a used an 8-0 run to cut the edge. field goal after Shaquille Bucks lead to 88-86 on Tracy 
Free throws by Stackhouse O'Neal's basket with 11:14 re­Murray's layup with 1:30 to and Maxwell gave the 76ers a maining. They shot 1-for-16 for play. 4-point lead with seven seconds the quarter. O'Neal picked up Terry Cummings had the hot left, and Jackson's 3-pointer his fifth foul with 8:18 left and hand coming off the bench for accounted for the final score. sat out almost four minutes. the Bucks, scoring 11 first half 
Philadelphia led by as many Still, the Pistons needed a 9-0 points on 5-for-6 from the field. as 16 in the second period, and run to tie the game 81-81 with He finished with 15 points. paced by Stackhouse's 21 first­6:05 remaining, on a basket by Oliver Miller led the Raptors half points held a 60-52 half­Terry Mills. with 21 points, including 12 in time advantage. Houston then scored Detroit's the first half, and a game-high Guard Reggie Miller scored 19 points, but it was not enough to over­
Stackhouse was 7 -for-9 in the next eight points on a driving 12 rebounds. come Jerry Stackhouse and the Sixers last night. Stackhouse lit up the scoreboard for 30 points on the way to the one point win. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Little Women 219 @ 7 & 9:30, 2111 @ 1 & 3 Carroll Auditorium, SMC 
NEED ANOTHER STUDY BREAK? 
come to Cushing this 
SUNDAY at 2 PM 
for SUB's showing of 
"How to Make an American Quilt" 
$2 
SPRING BREAKI With only 1 week to live, DON'T BLOW IT! Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas $359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash 1-800-426-7710 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Specials! 111% Lowest Price Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Save $100 On Food/Drinks! http://www .spring­breaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $2591 Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Beaches-Near Disney) $Hi9! Daytona $1391 http://www.spring­break1ravel.com. 1-800-678-6386 
########################### # # THURS. NIGHT # # CLUB23 # 
ILOST & FOUND I 
I lost my favourite scarf between Newland Science Hall and the post office last thursday. 
It is dark green and has a check­ered pattern on it. Please, please, please call Chis at 4-1697 if you happen to find it. 
REWARD$$ Lost detachable face­plate for PIONEER CD car stereo. Lost on 213. Should be in black plastic case w/ "PIONEER" written on it. 
If found PLEASE call Mark @ 634-3489! 
LOST on South Quad/Badin royal blue Adidas hat Sentimental Value Pis call x 2493 
Teachers Wanted! -If you love teaching -If you really love teaching -Have the desire to learn all types of software & build your knowledge -Willing to "study" on your own time 
• Willing to work as a Sub-contract trainer -Would like to make "above" average pay -Interested in variable assignments Please list any software you are proficient at: Send resume to: SS Innovations 300 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46601 Fax: 219-237-9447 
LOST: A pair of gold/red glasses at EX ND STAFFER & WIFE WISH Senior Bar last Thurs ... if u have TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. info, call Alex x1717 .... girls don't dig NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF· guys who run into walls! ERENCES. 
CALL (941 )425-4404 OR WRITE 135 LAKEVIEW, 
WANTED 
MULBERRY FL 33860 1 BDRM IN 3-BDRM. HOME. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. SAFE NEIGHBORHOOD. 
ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  NEED 3-4 PEOPLE WHO WANT  
PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/start  TO LIVE IN CAMPUS VIEW FOR  
Flexible hours around classes. All  2ND SEMESTER NEXT YEAR  
majors. Scholarships/Internships  CALL CHRIS AT X3574  
CALL 282-2357  
BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED  
IMMEDIATE OPENING  
PART TIME SALES POSITION  TOP$$$ PAID  
NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS  
$5.00 PER HOUR  (800)269-5849  
APPLY FAN FAIR, UNIVERSITY  
PARK MALL  TUTORS for Elem. kids!  
Every Wed. 2:15-4:00pm  
WANTED:  Call Heather@ X4135  
Good people to earn money by  
becoming reps for EXCEL Telecommunications.  FOR RENT  

USE OF ALL UTILITIES. $300/MO. CALL PAUL 232-2794. 
Old studebaker home, new interior, close to downtown. safe, 4 bdrm, 2 story. Perfect for 3­4 students + appl. $625/ mo. 289­77281v msg 
FOR SALE 
Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp-Receiver with Dual Tape Deck. 1 00 Watts of tunes! Call John at 232-2955 today! 
1984 FORD TEMPO 5-spd manual transmission 96,000 miles, good heater, always dependable $800 Call Chris today at 271-0271! 
JUDAY CREEK gem. 
Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch with a 17 x 25 home office 
& 3-car garage. 
$154,900. Call Karen 272-3653. 
ALUMNI 
MANY BEDROOMS 10 MINUTES TO CAMPUS SALE OR TRADE 812-923-8486 
Julie Watch out for sparks-the gas is 
PERSONAL 
overflowing! Let go of the handle next time, OK? Love, The Girls 
0c0o0c0c0c0oOc0c0c0c0 
QUALITY COPIES. QUICKLY!!! Lets go to Taco Bell for dinner,we'll THE COPY SHOP walk and get fresh air and eat LaFortune Student Center inside. Door is locked. Oh. I guess Phone 631-COPY we'll do walk thru! 
0c0c0c0c0o0o0c0c0c0c0 House got too crowded International Film Festival clothes got too tight and ends tonight! I don't know just where I'm going "Like Water for Chocolate" tonight Montgomery Theatre Sky's been cleared by a good hard 
7:30 rain $2.00 There's somebody calling my secret 
name PW Carnation Sale at Dining Halls I'm going down to Lucky1own, down NOW! Only a Buck! I to Luckytown 
I wanna lose these blues I found Literary Gods and Goddesses-down in Luckytown 
There will be magic. -Queen of V-Mail Mclnerney/Wolsfeld -what a great platform I 
SUB presents the 29th annual AMY .... Sophomore Literary Festival If you don't call me, I'll be forced to Sat., Feb 10: Bob Holman and make more references to "WOOF! 
Miguel Algarin WOOF I" 
Sun., Feb. 11: Tobias Wolff Mon., Feb. 12: Alistair Macleod I got somethin' on my mind .... 
Tues., Feb. 13: Student Reading Wed., Feb. 14: Frances Sherwood McDonald's, Adam? Thurs., Feb. 15: Gwendolyn Get some class ... 
Brooks All readings at 8pm in the Try not to paint the entire dorm Hesburgh Library Auditorium JG...It's not like you were swindled 
out of your pants! '89 BERETIA, Hey all you SAW tools-Just want­
ed to let you know that the CBI man Hey Beeftruck ...How's the Hal treat­V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console, is on campus and is watching you. ing you? cruise, front-wheel drive, air. I'm sad to say though his shades 
Excellent condition, new front tires were crushed in a freak motor cycle Calabria. & exhaust system, and new shocks. accident with Foston. OK I'm tired of not knowing anyones add or#. Oh, man. Get some work done Call654-7439 (local call). Please mail to 233 Sieg. I'll make a while I ge get a Diet Coke. 
- Are you missing a ski jacket?  Call 299-1999 evenings.  THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED- Prometheus ProModem 9600+,  list & distributelllllll-Belinda  Dante  
Found at Linebacker Thurs. 1/25. Call Kim x4946.  Help! Anyone who has recordings or pictures (or negatives) from the  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR ALSO 3-4BEDROOM HOMES  cables for Mac. $60 OBO. Bob @at 634-2395  HURRY! AVOID THE RUSH!!! • * * .... *  Rising up, back on the streets, did  
...  HELP! Someone must of picked up my green, down winter coat Friday night after a party in 518 Flanner Gn accident. It is waist length and has mittens in the pockets along with some computer disks. If you did or know someone who found it, PLEASE call Mary at x1496. A.S.A.P. Thank you. MISSING: Long, dark green L.L. Bean coat. Last seen Thurs. 1/25 at the Linebacker. If you have it, or if you are missing a similar jacket·l  Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch Silver (I played a song on stage) 277-2174 Deliver Telephone Books Earn Extra Money No Experience Now Hiring People needed to deliver your new America's Best Book Telephone Directories in So. Bend New Carlisle Mishawaka Granger Osceola Elkhart Bristol Goshen Millersburg Nappanee Wakarusa Lakeville Walkerton No. Liberty & Surrounding Areas To become an independent contractor you must be  CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA 2773097 ........................•............ 2 BDR APT @ COLLEGE PARK FOR RENT FOR SUMMER ONLY. $800/MONTH (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE) CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 ·······························-····· 1 BDRM in 3 bdrm apt. Mostly fur­nished. $200/mo + 1/3 electric. Downtown. Call Alisa or Vanda 237-1840  GORGEOUS RED 1989 MAZDA RX-7 CONVERTIBLE, LOADED, LOW MILES, MINT CONDITION, GARAGE KEPT, FACULTY OWNED-$14,500 • 234-6332. TICKETS Need 4 Seton Hall GAs Call Ellie 4-1325 Need 1 St John's GA  PLACE YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY CLASSIFIED ADS-NOW!!......... PREMIERE SHOW 3-4pm Friday, February 9 LaFortune Ballroom MEGAS LIVE Notre Dame's first ever live variety talk show Questions? Call Kevin at x3669. FOR SALE IBM laptop computer  my time in Bristol, took my chances. Went the disrtance but I'm not on my feet. I'm just Smalls and my will is to sleep . Hey Bra, I thought the raffle was rigged. I want my money back. Ken, I really wish you had an outie. BUT, you don't..that's a chip up the nose, my friend. Love, Otto (You're the BEST, Ken)  
found a similar one the same  18 years or older Use an insured  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Call Joe @ 634-1782  cheap!  Elliott:  
evening-please call Kim at x4946.  car van or truck & available a min.  219-291-7153  call Maria X1573  I could give you a GREAT BIG  
of 5 daylight hours daily To reserve  WILL PAY BIG$  KISS.  
FOUND: Dark green Columbia ski jacket. Found at Linebacker, 1/25. Please call Kim at x4946.  a route in your neighborhood Call 1­800-827-1200 Job #1101B 10am­6pm Mon/Fri ADSCorp EOE  HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595  FOR MACBETH TIX; CALL BEN ATX1563.  GREAT MOMENTS IN HISTORY February 11 , 1969: Jennifer Aniston Born!  Love, Nora "Petie, Petie,Petie!"  

----------~-----~-----~-----------------------­
Thursday, february 8, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
-
• COLLEGE BASkETBALL 
Davis wins 200th in Iowa win 
Associ;ued Press 
Jm;s Settles matelwd his ca­mer high with 29 points and No. I1) Iowa ovnrcamn the loss ol' Chris Kingsbury with strong 
insidn  play  to  beat  
Northwestern  88-77  
Wmlnesday night.  

The victory was coueh Tom Davis' 200th at Iowa. The llawkeyes (I 6-(>, 5-5 Big Ten) played without 3-point ace Kingsbury, who was suspended thnw games for pulling Penn State guard Dan Earl to the floor and out or hounds after l·:arl trind to hlock Kingsbury's shot in a ganw four days ago. 
Northwestern, down nine at the half. got to within six with just over four minutns left on .l1won Johnson's 3-point. play hut SPttles answered with a pair of' inside baskets to bring tlw lnad hack to I 0. 
Northwestern (h-13, 1-9) madt• orw last run and cut it live when Johnson again hit a :~-pointer with 1: 12 rnmaining. Settles th1•n droppml in two f'me throws with 4h snconds to go, Andn~ Woolridgt~ hit two morn 13 seconds later and Settlr.s hit a layup after a steal as Iowa rm:orded its I Oth vie tory over Northwest1~rn in the last 11 JJH~ntings. 
Kenyon Murray added 17 for 
INTERVIEW WITH PEACE CORPS 
As ,1 Peace Corps Volunteer in education, you c.m bring the world to students in dcvl'lopmg n,1tinns through math, science, En~h•h, and other subjects. You can guahfy for many positions with an l'duc,ltion dcgrl'e or cl bachelor's degree. Over 2,100 educJtion Volunteers are 
serving right nnw in over 70 countries around the world-helping student• le.1m 
•nd m•king • diHenmce in th~ir future. Why dun't you join them? 
Interviews 
Friday, February 23 8:30a.m.-4:00p.m. Sign up for interviews in the placement office. You must have a completed application to qualify for an interview slot. 
For more information call Brian at 800-424-8580 (option 1) 
Visit Peace Corps' homepage at http://www.peacecorps.gov 
'~·PEACE CORPS
*Thetoughest job you'll over love. 
Vc•IUI"wrw mllltts.l USrttluru and mwt llttwrqu.!illllco1tl001. llw twnnuiN,...kwl•twllyll<4n 'Owmlnlmwno~s-hllll,butthtcorviJnu uppt•r olJP llmll l'~~~o~c. Curpt dt-nut dlscrlminatw un ttwbiJl' of r.:uv, w•. tviiKkln, ~;111 (uvvr .f()) nr MP•wl uf'Wnto11lun. All PtooiCit Cc"J"' JIA'Kr•nw &rv admlnlltwM..I un • non-dWcrimlnatury ba'IL 
the Hawkeyes. 
Geno Carlisle, Northwestern's leading scorer with a 20-point average, managed just 15 as the Wildcats lost their fifth straight game. Johnson led the Wildcats with 17. 
Iowa took a 39-30 halftime lead behind 12 points from Settles, 50 percent shooting and a 22-15 rebounding edge. 
Carlisle scored managed only three first-half points. missing six of his seven field goal at­tempts. 
No. 14 Purdue 74, Wisconsin 42 
Rr.serve guard Todd Foster scored 15 of his 18 points in the second half Wednesday as 14th-ranked Purdue pulled away to beat Wisconsin 75-42 in tlu~ Big Tr.n. 
Foster made livr. 3-point bas­kr.ts during a 25-2 sr.cond-half run by Purdue ( 18-4, 8-2 Big 
Tlln). 
Brandon Brantley added 11 points for Purdue, which took a half-game lead over Penn State in the conference standings. 
Wisconsin (13-9, 5-5) was led by Sean Daugherty with 13 points and Sam Okey with 12. 
Purdur. led by as many as 21 points in the first half. Wisconsin closed to 36-31 early in the second half and trailed only 42-35 when Purdue began its 25-2 charge. 
Purdue opened the game by sprinting to a 32-11 lead, with nine points coming from Hoy Hairston. Wisconsin was held seorelr.ss for "more than six minutes. 
Daugherty broke the Badgers' drought with a layup with 4:34 remaining in the half. That trig­gered a 14-2 run that pulled the Badgers to 34-25. Okey scored six points during that stretch. 
Chad Austin hit two free throws with three seconds left to give the Boilermakers a 36­25 halftime lead. 
No. 18 Clemson 70, Maryland 53 
Stephanie Hidgeway scored 23 points and Laura Cottrell had 13 rebounds and 11 points Wednesday night to lead No. 18 Clemson to a 70-53 victory over Maryland. 
Hidgeway hit nine of 14 shots, inCluding six of her last seven. 
Maryland (9-12, 3-8 Atlantic Coast Conference) was paced by Kelley Gibson with 16 points, five assists and four steals. 
Stephanie Cross had 11 points and Sonia Chase added 10 for the Terrapins. Kalis a Davis pulled down 10 rebounds. 
Clemson (17 -3, 7 -3) went on a 15-2 run as Maryland made only one of its last eight shots of the first half. 
The Terrapins also turnr.d the ball over seven times in the last eight minutes. 
Aftr.r the break, the Tigers in­creased their lead to 19. But Maryland cut it to 47-36 with 10 minutes to go as the Terrapins hit 10 of 12 shots to open the second half. 

The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores are encouraged to apply. Some journalism experience and basic knowledge of desktop publishing helpful. 
Please bring a one page personal statement to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 pm, Thursday February 15. Call1-4540 with questions. 

Photo courtesy of Boston College Sports lntormation 
Boston College guard Danya Abrams scored 18 points as the Golden Eagles took advantage of a strong three-point shooting pertormance to defeat St. John's 89-731ast night at Madison Square Garden. 
Golden Eagles rise above Red Storm 
By JIM O'CONNELL Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Freshman Scoonie Penn scored 20 points and No. 22 Boston College used a quick burst of 3-pointers in the sec­ond half to take control on the way to an 89-73 victory St. John's on Wednesday night. 
The Eagles (14-5, 7-4 Big East) were ahead 65-62 when Mo Brown of St. John's hit a 3­pointer with 7:23 to play. Boston College's next three field goals were all 3-pointers and came in a 78-second span from three different players ­Keenan Jourdan, Andy Bedard and Duane Woodard. Woodard's made it 74-62 with 
5:10 to play and the lead was never less than 1 0 the rest of the way as St. John's (8-11, 2­
9) dropped its third straight and sixth in sr.ven games with the only win over then-No. 6 Georgetown. 
Penn and Danya Abrams, who finished with 18 points, dominated the game for Boston College until the run of 3s gave the Eagles their second win of the season over St. John's. 
Woodward finished with 17 for the Eagles, who were 8-of­18 from 3-point range with Woodward perfect in three at­tempts. 
Abrams had 13 rebounds for Boston College. 
Zendon Hamilton led St. John's with 24 points and 15 rebounds but received little help. Felipe Lopez added 13. 


were asked why they didn't come to earth more 
often, they responded that there just wasn't entertainment to make the 3 billlon•light..year tri worthwhile. Their leader, Yukionaca, dld mentio that they frequented Indiana due to a rare, but extremely high frequency of fun emitting f(~Jl)},a place called. . • • ;r ~:t,~ ,· 
SUB<. 
Help unite humans and the fazosaems 
JOIN US. WE BELIEVE. 
sub is accepting applications 
for all posit:ions 
sto the office or call 631-7757 
Successful candidates work in full-time paid positions with area or national firms during the two summers before graduation. Must attend required educational seminars. Minimum 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale required. 
For more information contact your Career Services Center or contact Ronaelle Carlson at e-mail address: rcarlsonif@aol.com or call (708) 986-5539. 
The International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans is a nonprofit educational association. 
I.E INTERNS Program International Foundation • 
OF EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
FRRNHFURT S229 
ROME $309 
Fares are from Indianapolis. mh waq bmd on aRl purchase. Fares do not include federal taxes and passengerfaciiiNes charges. which can total between $19.95 and Sl1.95. depending on lhe destinaNon. nor do theq include departure charges paid direcHq to to foreign governments. which can total between $3.00 and SGO.OO. lnt IStudenliO maq be re­quired. Fares are suject to change. Reslrlctlons applq. 
[i.UhNII Travel "­
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchan~c 
On lhe Web: hltp://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshomehlm 
1-000-2-COUNCI~ 
[1-800-226-8624] 
... 
• 
,------­
I 
I 
I I page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 1996 
• COllEGE BASKETBAlL 
I 
!
!~ I 
Wallace holds off Pittsburgh 
Associated Press 
John Wallace scored 25 points and Otis Hill's only points of the second half helped No. 18 Syracuse hold off a sec­ond-half rally and beat Pittsburgh 73-67 Wednesday night. 
Hill had 18 points as Syracuse opened first-half leads of as many as 14 points, but he did not score in the sec­ond half until his three-point play gave the Orangemen a 69­61 lead with 1:40 remaining. 
Pitt (9-10, 4-7 in Big East) had closed to within four points for the first time since early in the game at 63-59 with 4:47 left, but scored only once more until Chad Varga hit two 3­pointers in the final 23 seconds. 
Wallace, Hill and Todd Burgan, who had 10 points, scored all but 17 Syracuse points as the Orange (17 -6, 7 -5) beat Pitt for the ninth consecu­tive time since Jan. 8, 1992. The Orange are 20-7 against Pitt since the Panthers joined the Big East in 1982. 
Wallace, who moved past for­mer Pitt star Charles Smith into 11th place on the career Big East scoring list, had 11 rebounds as the taller, more physical Orange outrebounded Pitt 44-31. 
Varga scored 20 of his. 26 points in the second half as Pitt, coming off an 88-55 loss at No. 6 Villanova, went on a 10-2 run early in the half and a later 9-2 run to threaten the upset. 
But while the Orangemen made only 1-of-9 3-pointers, they finished 22-of-26 from the foul line as Wallace was 9-of­10. 
Jerry McCullough, Pitt's top scorer with a 14.7 average, fouled out with eight points on 2-of-13 shooting. 
Syracuse, winning in Pittsburgh for the fourth con­secutive season, opened leads of 10-4, 17-8 and 25-12 and later went on a 10-3 run that made it 35-21. Hill had 18 points and· Wallace had 12 at halftime. 
McCullough's steal and layup later finished off Pitt's 10-2 run and cut Syracuse's lead to 46­41 with 14:34 remaining, but the Panthers never got any closer until their late stretch drive. 
No. 2 Kentucky 120, Vanderbilt 81 
No. 2 Kentucky turned yet another quick start into its 18th straight victory Wednesday night. 
The Wildcats (19-1, 9-0 Southeastern Conference) opened with a 21-4 run en route to routing Vanderbilt 120-81. 
The Commodores (14-8, 4-5 SEC) Jed only once as Billy DiSpaltro converted Derek Anderson's turnover into a layup. But Walter McCarty an­swered with a dunk and a bas­ket inside to put Kentucky ahead to stay. 
McCarty scored all seven of his first-half points in the first five minutes, and Tony Delk took over with his 10 first-half points over the next three min­utes. His bucket with 12:40 left put Kentucky up 21-4. 
Delk finished with 22 points to lead the Wildcats. Antoine Walker had 17, McCarty 16, Ron Mercer and Mark Pope added 15 off the bench, and Jeff Sheppard 10 as every Wildcat scored. 
Kentucky dominated Vanderbilt in the first half with its size and speed. 
The Wildcats outrebounded the Commodores 27-6, allowing Vandy only one offensive board, and outshot Vanderbilt in con­verting 65 percent of its shots, including 7-of-10 from 3-point range. 
For the game, Kentucky dom­inated the boards 47-21 and hit 63 percent from the floor and 11-of-22 3-pointers. 
Kentucky, which now has started quickly in five of its past nine games, built its lead to as much as 31 twice in the first half, the last at 63-32 on Allen Edwards' three-point play 45 seconds before intermission. 
The Commodores made a mini-comeback in the second half and cut Kentucky's lead to 21 twice, the final time on Frank Seckar's driving layup to pull within 70-49 with 15:16 left. 
But Delk answered with three straight baskets, Pope hit a 3­pointer and Mercer dunked to put Kentucky back up 81-50. 
Delk also gave the Wildcats their biggest margin at 114-75 with a jumper at the 2:55 mark. 
Pax Whitehead led Vanderbilt with 20 points. Drew Maddux had 18 and Austin Bates added 
14. Seckar, Vandy's leading scorer averaging 16 points a game, finished with 11. 
No. 9 Virginia 72, No. 15 N. Carolina St. 60 
Tora Suber scored 21 points and Monick Foote got 17 as No. 9 Virginia shook off cold shoot­ing and claimed a 72-60 victory over No. 15 North Carolina State Wednesday night. 
The Cavaliers (17-4, 8-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) shot only 38 percent but forced 21 turnovers and limited North Carolina State to 26 percent shooting in the second half. 
N.C. State (15-6, 7-4 ACC) trailed only 40-34 at the half before Virginia took charge on the way to its 13th straight vic­tory in the series. It also helped the Cavaliers open a 1 1/2­game lead in the race for top seed in the upcoming ACC women's tournament. 
Muriel Davis converted a three-point play with 11:26 left before halftime, giving N.C. State a 20-14 lead. 
Virginia came back with a 10-4 run to tie the score, then added a 16-8 spurt behind Foote's 10 points in the last eight minutes. 
Umeki Webb hit a free throw with 17:35 left to draw the Wolfpack to 44-40. Ten straight points by Virginia ended N.C. State's comeback threat. 

Pick from a bouquet of balloons, each containing 
Photo courtesy of Syracuse Sports Information Forward John Wallace poured in 25 points, and Otis Hill added 20 as Syracuse held off a·furious Pittsburgh rally to win 73-67. Hill scored 18 in the first half, but it was his only basket of the second half that helped the Orangemen hold off a late Panther surge. 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ORGANIZATION 
PRESENTS 

a special discount of 15°/o, 20°/o or 25o/o off your entire purchase. Plus, enjoy 2 for 1 admission when you and your "sweetie" tour the College Football Hall of Fame. 
7 through February 14 
*FESTIV~L'96* "PEACE AROUND THE WORLD" Come Join us in a Celebration ofMusic and Culture 
Feb. 1Oth, 1996 
tickets at
Washington Hall 
LaFortune Info Desk
7:00p.m. 
STUDENTS/FACULTY: $3.00 
or at the Door 
GENERAL PUBLIC: $5.00 
111 South Saint Joseph Street • South Bend 800/871-2865 or 219/235-5700 Open Daily 9am-7pm • Free Parking • Free Admission 
I , 
I 
-
-
Thursday, February 8, 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish bury hapless Panthers 
Morgan hits for 26 in victory 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sport> Writer 
Notre Dame has not been kind to visiting opponents this SP.ason. They have triumphed in all but one game at the .JACC. So Pittsburgh should not be surprisnd by thn way they were treated last night. 
The women's basketball team thrashed the Panthers 90-51 in a game the Irish dominated frorn beginning to end. 
"We cumn out ready to play. Our intnnsily was high, and our defense was the best that it has bnnn in a few games," com­mnnted Irish head coach Muffet MeGraw. 
Notre Dame used this week­~~nd's loss against Hutgers as incentive to play with a height­ened level of intensity. 
"Against Hutgers, we shot poorly and didn't play a very smart game," said McGraw. 
"When we lose, we like to take it out on our next oppo­nent." 
The No. 24 Irish also wanted to prove that their Associated Press ranking was well-de­served. 
Coach McGraw admitted that she was surprised by the announcement, considering the recent loss. 
"The ranking was definitely a confidence boost for the team." 
Beth Morgan led the Irish early with a flurry of baskets that resulted in a 24-2 margin. She also contributed to the ef­fort with several key assists and rebounds. 
Morgan finished the game with an impressive 26 points and 6 assists in only 21 minutes 
---~---------------------, never trailed in the contest. 

4121 SOUTH MICHIGAN...SOUTH BEND 219/291-9200 
5327 NORTH GRAPE ROAD...MISHAWAKA 219/277-8121 
CONCORD MALL ENTRANCE...ELKHART 219/875-8511 
............... -........................ 
of action. 
"That is how she played against Syracuse. She played great defense and shot well all night," said McGraw. 
Notre Dame walked into the locker room with a 50-15 half­time lead. During most of the second half, McGraw rested her starters and brought players off the bench for some valuable playing time. She was particu­larly pleased with the play of freshman Diana Braendly. The talented center showed no signs of nerves in her most suc­cessful game of the season. Braendly finished the game se.cond in Irish scoring with 14 points. 
"Diana Braendly had her best game of the season, and Mollie [Peirick] played well tonight also," noted McGraw. 
Notre Dame led Pittsburgh by 51 points on four separate oc­casions, which was the largest margin of the game. The Irish 
The Irish have six games re­maining on their regular sea­son schedule, all of which are against Big East opponents. Wednesday night's perfor­mance by the Irish bench could be crucial in the future when Notre Dame faces more formi­dable opponents. 
Next up for No. 24 Notre Dame: Georgetown Hoyas . 
...?In Dnside Look 
at the 
1lomini.can CWay of Life 
You are invited to attend a weekend of prayer, reflection and sharing at St. Catharine, Kentucky on February 16-18 
For more information call Sister Joann Mascari, OP (502) 367-6696 
' 
Are Yo~ Prepared? WeAre. 
• 
Limit of 10 Students per Class 

• 
Free Extra Help 

• 
The Best Instructors 

• 
Satisfaction Guaranteed 


~~CETON 
...REVIEW 
(ClasH$ start February 17tbt ) 
Call Today! 800/865-7737 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or the Educational Te:seing Service. 
today, it's all over. You won't have this thing 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dance class will offered on Monday and Wednesday evenings from· 
6:30 -7:45 in Hockne Hm. 219. All levels are welcome, but space is limited. You must reg­ister in advance in the HecSports office and the fee is $30. For more info., call 1­6100. Open to all ND students, faculty, and staff. 
Mountain Biking Club: Meeting Feb. 8, 7 pm in LaFortune. All levels welcome. Contact Patrick van den Broeke with questions 236-7266. 
Intercollegiate Howling: Any students of Notre Dame or SL. Mary's who are interested in intercollegiate bowling competition, please contact Jason at 4-1065. 
as you eat your lunch. We here at SUB hope that through these ads, you've gained a better insight to your well being, your inner soul, and a general knowledge of the working methods of the human appredation for love and understanding through conceptual theories rooted in deep contemplation. At this time, we would like to reflect on the many people who made this ad what it is today such as Bill Clinton, Helmet Kohl, and I probably spelled that wrong, so I'll stop there with him. Anyway, you get the idea of what a process this is, and what type of powerful leaders are required for making something like this possible. We hope we haven't offended you or upset any small children. 
Like Water For Chocolate 
Tonight at Montgonw1y Theatre 7:30pm 
... -· ....__ ...... 
•
I I I I I I I 
• II 
I 
I 
I 
l 
I I I I 
-
I page 18 I l­
• NFL 
I I 
1 Cardinals pluck I Tobin from Colts 
Winter Defiance ~ Dance 

When: Saturday, February 10 
10 p.m. -2 a.m. Where: Knights of Columbus Cost: $1 Members 
$2 Non-members 
U'~ ~ 4ltd ~tk Mtd
@ 
s~ ?Je.ut ~~ 
Questions? Call John (ND) 4-1419 or Erin (SMC) 284-5507 Brought to you by "lt¢ SU:te, the group that provides something other than the usual social scene. 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 1996 
~~~------------------------------------~----~-----­


I Love Papa John's, .a;..-but sometimes I like the taste of a good ol' finger! 
With my new Computer Dating Survey, 
all of the boys will be calling my digits! 
Plus this haircut of mine is so legitimate. ____, 
-~ 
Alumni Senior Club 
DOORS OPEN AT 6:00 PM 
Why it's Called the Sophomore Class D1nner ol Love: II you pay the $3 admission lee, not only do you get to jam with STOMPER BOB and eat some PAPA JOHN'S, but _you receive the results ol your COMPUTER DATING SURVEY FREE!! 
I 
I 
I 
l I l l. l I l l ~ 
I I I I I I I
I ­
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
For the second time, Vince Tobin is in territory vacated by Buddy Ryan. 
The Arizona Cardinals hired the defensive coordinator of the Indianapolis Colts as their coach Wednesday. He replaces Ryan, who was fired Dec. 26 after his team skidded to 4-12 with a season-ending 37-13 loss to Dallas. 
In 1986, Tobin replaced Ryan as defensive coordinator of the Chicago Bears after Ryan got his first head coaching job with Philadelphia. 
Cardinals owner Bill Bidwill, who kept his plans secret until the last day, said he likes Tobin's low-key but determined style. 
"He comes across as a very straightforward person," Bidwill said. "He has been de­scribed that way to me by a number of people. What you see is what you get." 
Tobin, 52, said he always prepares for victory. But he demurred when asked if he was saying there was "a win­ner in town," the now infa­mous way Ryan described him­self when he was hired Feb. 3, 1994. 
"I've never gone into a game­
or a season thinking we could­
n't win," Tobin said. "Now, is 
that a goal? I don't know, but 
the only purpose of coaching or 
playing in the National Football 
League is to win, is to want to 
get to the Super Bowl." 
Bidwill flew to Honolulu for 
last week's Pro Bowl and made 
his first contact with Tobin 
there. Both said the deal wasn't 
closed until Wednesday after­
noon, hours before the 
Cardinals called their news 
conference. 
Tobin's five-year contract is 
for coaching only, and Bidwill 
said he has not yet settled on a 
general manager, the other 
position left vacant by Ryan's 
firing. 
The owner said he would not 
try to hire a GM until after the 
NFL scouting combine which 
begins Thursday in 
Indianapolis. 
Bill Tobin, the new coach's older brother, is the Colts' di­rector of football operations and has been mentioned as the Arizona GM. Vince Tobin said he didn't know whether Bill was a candidate. 
"This is something that Mr. Bidwill and I discussed at great length, and he has assured me when he hires a general man­ager it will be a guy who is very compatible with me," Tobin said. · 
Bidwill took six weeks to re­place Ryan, but he beat his own deadline by one day. He had said he wanted to send the new coach to the combine. 
Tobin said he hopes to talk to defensive tackle Eric Swann and cornerback Aeneas Williams, the team's two most valuable free agents, before returning to Indianapolis this weekend. 
Arizona's offense was anemic throughout Ryan's two years, but the third-ranked defense helped the Cardinals to an 8-8 record in 1994. Last year, the defense was as mediocre as the offense. 
The Cardinals have not had a winning season since 1984 or been to the playoffs in a non­strike year since 1975. 
Tobin becomes the Cardinals' 
fifth coach since the team 
moved to Arizona from St. 
Louis in 1988, and the 32rd 
coach in the franchise's 75­
year history. 
He emerged as a top candi­
date for the job from a field 
that included Green Bay defen­
sive coordinator Fritz Shurmur 
and former UCLA coach Terry 
Donahue. 
Tobin's 1986 Bears defensive 
unit set an NFL recording for 
fewest points allowed (187) in a 
16-game season, and the 1988 
Bears also were the league's 
stingiest in opponent scoring. 
He was out of football in 1993, 
then joined the Colts. 
In 1994 he took over a de­
fense that ranked last the pre­
vious season and molded it into 
a unit that tied for seventh in 
total defense and fifth in fewest 
points allowed in 1995. 
And his stock climbed during 
Indianapolis' drive to the AFC 
title game last season. 

-----------------~ ~--­
Thursday, february 8, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish sign defensive standouts 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Sports Writ<r 
Five high sehoul seniors from around the country put the pen to paper on "National Signing Day," and, just like that, the Notre Dame mnn's soeeer team bm·.amc a litlln more well-round­nd. 
"We basi­cally met our needs, which is the most important thing in a rneruiting class," of­fered head coach Mike Berlieelli. 
Thostl needs inelude shoring up a much-maligned defense whieh surrnndnred 39 goals in I 1) matdws last season. 
It looks as if' this most press­ing of rweds may have been nwt-and more. 
Four of the live signees are dnfensive playnrs, and one of thnrn also doubled as a kicknr/tight end for his high school football team last sea­SOIL 
1111 was also an all-state selection for two straight sea­sons in football. 
In Texas. 
But in the end. Matt McNew, considered one of the top 100 football prospects in football­crazy Texas, decided to pursue his equally impressive soccer career for the Irish. who will no doubt weleome the presence of the 6'4", 210 pound McNew in their defensive backfield. 
"Matt adds good size and strength and will be primarily a central defender for us," com­nHlnted 13erticelli on the Arlington native, who is cur­rently a member of the Under­17 National team. "Teehnieally, he is a very sound player with a powerful shot." 
llow pow!lfful is McNew's h1g'? Powerful enough to nail a 48-yard field goal this past sea­son on the football field during the waning seconds of a state playoff game. 

McNew was no sloueh this past season on the offensive end either, leading his team in scoring with 22 goals and eight assists. 
In addition to McNew, the Irish defensive backfield corps will be augmented by the addi­tion of Alan Woods and Matt DeDominics, who both help fill a much needed addition of marking backs to the Irish squad. 
With the loss of sophomore marking back David Cutler due to a study-abroad program next season, Woods and DeDominics may lind themselves spending a good deal of time on the field next season. 
"We gained a lot of experi­enee in the backfield last sea­son," said Herticelli of a defp,nse which was almost entirely green last season. "With the addition of that expe­rience and this recruiting class, we're hoping to stop some of the leaks back there." 
Woods, who hails from Burtonsville, Maryland, led Paint Branch lligh School ~o the regional state semi-finals last season, notching seven goals and 11 assists in the process. A three year starter at Paint Branch, Woods is currently a member of the Maryland state and regional Olympic Developmental team. 
"Alan fills an immediate need at marking back," said Berticelli of Woods. "lie is a very strong and athletic player with good speed and tremen­dous leaping ability who will challenge for a starting position next season." 
DeDominics started his entire high sehoul career at Simsbury lligh in Simsbury, Connecticut, leading the team to a state championship this past season. DeDominics is another multi­talented athlete, currently av­eraging 17 points per game for the school basketball team. 
"Matt is another solid addi­tion for us at marking back," commented Berticelli. "He will 
CIN[[\~D~ lUT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 

give us tremendous speed and quiekness in the backfield, and he is a strong leader on the field." 
Hounding out the defensive additions is goalkeeper John Krivacic, a first-team all-dis­trict selection the past two sea­sons for Newman Smith High School in Carrollton, Texas. Krivacic led Newman Smith to a 17-5-2 record last season, posting six shutouts on the year. 
No stranger to international experience, Krivacic has trav­eled to both England and France to train and spent the summer of 1994 training at the Wimbledon Football Club in England. 
"John is a very consistent goalkeeper who rarely makes mistakes," noted Berticelli. "We had a big problem with co.nsistency in the net last sea­son, so I think John will push our two returnees for the start­ing spot in the fall." 
And then there is the matter of Hyan Cox, the most heralded of the live signees. 
The Irish offense, besieged with injuries last season, got a huge boost with the addition of Cox, who was considered by many to be one of the top three high school forwards in the na­tion last season. 
Cox is currently a member of the Under 20 National Team and tallied 30 goals and 15 as­sists for North Royalton High in Broadview Heights, Ohio last season. A three-time All-State selection, Cox finished his high school career with 65 goals and 47 assists, both school records. 
Cox also has international ex­perience, having played soccer in eight European countries in his young career. 
"Ryan is an outstanding addi­tion to our program." said an obviously pleased Berticelli. "lie has a tremendous work ethic and will contribute imme­diately. He's very opportunistic and an extremely tough player to defend. Ryan's going to add great excitement to our pro­gram." 
Buckle your seatbelts soccer fans because the 1996 Irish squad looks to be full of excite­ment. 
"I think we got excellent speed in this recruiting class," said Berticelli. 
page 19 
• VOLLEYBAll 
Brown e01phasizes work ethic for future 

BLUES LOVERS THURSDAY 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
featuring: SPEEDY &THE TURBINES BLUES BAND lower level-one night only! wear your dancing and party shoes-this band will have off your feet! 
plus a special appearance in the upstairs lounge by 
JOE & BRENDAN 
the hottest campus 2 -man acoustical jam group! guest DJs play your favorite tootsie roll, butterfly, booty call and hip hop tunes between band breaks. 
show starts I I PM doors open at 8 PM $3 cover with student IDs, $5 without 21 and over with proper IDs **save $2 with this ad before II PM** 
By BETSY BAKER 
Sports Writer 
"Great work ethic." 
This is the phrase that Notre Dame head volleyball coach Debbie Brown used to describe the four recruits that, as of yesterday, will officially make up the 1996 fresh­man class. 
The class. which will bring the Irish volley­ball program into the 21st century, is· a combination of hard work and versatility that will add much depth to an already greatly talented and successful team that lost only one senior. 
Mary Lefl'ers, Mandi Powell, Emily Schiebout, and Lauren Stettin signed on the dotted line yesterday and will make up the Irish class of 2000. 
"This recruiting class ranks very high on my list of best re­cruiting classes," Brown said. ''I've been very impressed with the work ethic I've seen in these athletes, and it's been further documented through my conversations with their coaches." 
Leffers, a 6-foot-4 middle blocker from Tampa, Florida, will add some needed height and strength to the middle of the net for the Irish. Currently, the Irish have only one player over six-foot tall, 6­foot-5 middle blocker Jen Rouse. Although, in the past, an extremely athletic Irish defensive front has overcome the height disadvantage, the added height will allow that athleticism to be channeled elsewhere. 
"Mary has excellent hitting and blocking skills," Brown said of Leffers. "She is very physically very strong and has a great work ethic. 
"She has the ability to come in and make an immediate contribution to our team." 
Leffers was named Mizuno high school All-American and is considered a top prospect in 

............R~~.s.~~~;. ~-........... . 
this year's class of middle blockers. 
Powell, a Hoosier native from Monroeville, Indiana, is a six foot utility player whose versatility will add to the ath­leticism of the Irish team. Powell holds seven out of 10 career records at Monroeville High School and was an all­conference, all-metro, and a second-team all-state selec­tion. 
Schiebout, who stands at 6­foot-1, has a powerful left­handed hit that will make her a valuable asset from the opposite side. Schiebout sat out her junior and senior sea­sons due to injuries on both knees but is expected to be 100 percent recovered by Mareh. 
Schiebout and LeiTers should add both size and strength to the Irish front row. 
"Both Mary and Emily are strong front row players," Brown said. "All four players bring something different to the team and will let us expand our options." 
The final of the four signees, Stettin, is another all-around talented player who can play either hitter or setter. The six foot Hinsdale, Illinois native is the youngest of talent-laden family in the sport of volley­ball. 
Her older brother Paul at­tended Notre Dame and was a member of the men's club here, and her sister Megan plays for the University of Illinois. 
"Lauren has the best skills of any of our incoming recruits," Brown commented. "She could fill a number of roles for us including a primary passer, a defensive specialist, a block­ing specialist, or even a back­up setter." 
Overall, the four freshmen will enter the locker room of a very talented team with hopes of adding to that talent while finding their own niches on the team. 
The increase in the roster will provide more competition among the players but should elevate the play of the team as a whole. 
-
,...----.-------------------------------­
-
page 20 The Observer • SIGNING DAY 1996 Thursday, February 8, 1996 
Irish strength lines, skill positions 
Williams adds size, strength to defense 
TIM MCCONN 
SportS Writer 
The knock on Notre Dame's recruiting in recent memory, before last year, has been that we recruit nice guys with great.character, but so what? They i are not the blue-chip athletes that we need in order to compete with the Nebraskas and Floridas of the 
I 
I college football world. 
J Those who think that mix of character, athleti­
I cism, and grades is a rare find, and one the Irish 
I will never discover, have yet to meet Brad Williams, 
f the 6-foot-6, 250 lb. defensive lineman from Orange,
! CA. who signed a national letter-of-intent yesterday 
I 
to play for Notre Dame next year. 
I 
According to coaches, he has the ability to com­
I ­
pete for the Irish on the defensive line, possibly evenI next year. "He's a big, physical player," stated defensive coordinator Bob Davie. "He will be given the full opportunity to play defensive line here at Notre Dame." "He's an awfully, awfully fine player," Holtz added. The athletic exploits of Williams are well-docu­mented. Many national publications, including Parade and USA Today, have named him first-team prep All-American, while several others have placed Brad in their top 50 lists nationally. As a result, coach Holtz labeled Brad as "a highly accoladed player." For the first time in recent memory, since the signing of Bryant Young in 1990, Notre Dame has signed young men that could prove to be the stars of the Irish front d,efensive line for years to come. Williams and fellow signee Jason Ching have the potential to form one of the most lethal combina­tions along the defensive line that Notre Dame fans have ever seen. "These are guys that can provide you with anchors up front," declared Holtz. Despite the coach's statement, there has been speculation that Williams may be converted to the offensive side of the ball. He played offensive line in high school as well as defense, and the Jerry Wisne experiment this year simply fueled the fire about Williams. Coach Davie tried to stop this rumor before it started. "USC supposedly recruited him as an offensive lineman," commented Davie. "But we certainly recruited him as a defensive lineman." Along with being a star player on the gridiron, he has achieved success on the basketball court as well. According to Williams' neighbor and freshman Irish basketball player Doug Gottlieb, Williams excells in hoops, and even helped his football skills by improving his agility during the basketball sea­son. "He's riot just a big football player that they stuck out on the basketball court," said Gottlieb. "He can really play the game because of his incredible strength and coordination." On top of all this acclaim that he has received throughout high school atheltics, Brad has also gained the respect of friends, family, and, of course, coaches. The favorable adjectives seem neverend­ing; in particular, Gottlieb calls him a "great guy, real personable, and a hard worker." The coaches appeared to agree with that assessment, while Holtz included that fact that Williams is "an excellent stu­dent." All in all, Brad Williams is a great addition to the Notre Dame c6mmunity and should become a cor­nerstone on which a national championship team is 

• GRADED POSITIONAL ANALYSIS 
Quarterback B+ 
Eric Chappell seems to fit 
Lou Holtz's new open 
offense. Chappell has 
great size, and above 
averge arm and can run 
the 40 in 4.7 seconds. Running Backs C · Jay Vickers looks to he the tailb&.ck of the class while Joey Goodspeed will try to 
follow in the path of Marc Edwards. This need could have been filled better. 
Receivers A(with Nelson) B+ {without Nelson) 
Raki Nelson will make this solid corp even more spe­cial if he decides on Notre Dame. Dawson, Johnson,· and Harper all bring solid credentials 
Offensive Line B+ 
Joe Moore has to be ectas­tic about the prospect of working with the Classes of 1999 and 2000. Potential is definitely there again. 
Defensive Line A+ 
Jason Ching and Brad Williams are both first­team USA TODAY All­Americans. They should see immediate time. 'Nuff 
said. 
built. 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
Dame and every student has to go to mass every day." 
The Irish are still waiting on possible commitments from highly touted receiver Raki Nelson and defensive back Gary Berry. While Nelson's signing seems to be just a matter of time, Berry's is not so elemen­tary. 
"We are hoping to sign one or two more," Holtz said. "We're confident we'll sign one more. Raki Nelson has not signed at 
-the present time, but we are recruiting him hard. There are lots of reasons why people don't sign (on Signing Day)." While last year's group was clearly the highest-touted re­
cruiting class in every publica­tion imaginable, this year's class is a bit of an enigma, filled with underestimated athletes and stars with potential. SuperPrep currently has this year's Notre Dame class ranked second while G & W lists it 7th and high school guru Tom Lemming ranks it 9th. 
"I don't care where it's ranked nationally," Holtz con­tinued. ''I'm very comfortable with this year's class." 
It's kind of like a kid who con­vinces himself that he likes his toy when his neighbor has an upgraded, more expensive model, like many feel Penn State, Ohio State and Tennessee have this year. 
"You need to look at a recruiting class when it's back­to-hack with the one you had last year," he pointed out. "I 
Linebackers B 
NoKory, Minors but Lyron Cobbins wasn't exactly a household name either three years ago. Joe Ferrer may eventually be one. 
SecondaryC 
Assuming the Irish aren't lucky enough to land highlytouted Berry, this group again falls short, no pun intended, of expecta­tions. Only one recruit is listed as just a DB. 
Special Teams A 
The Irish were consistent­ly inconsistent in the kick­ing game this season. Jim Sanson has the tools and mentality to change that. Overall good speed of the class bodes well for the kick return game. 
Overall Grade 3.2 The Irish followed a stel­lar 1995 class with a solid 1996 group. Stringing 
two consecutive above average. classes has not happened for awhile. That has spelled trouble in recent times. Maybe irs time for change. When Notre Dame football is involved, hope springs eternal. · 
--Tim Sherman 
rh.ink when you put this one with last year's class, it's an awfully good class." 
A class of third graders could be good when matched with last year's group. But the class of 2000 does have some gen­uine stars that sets it apart in its own right. Most importantly, these prep athletes fill some gaping holes in the present Irish lineup. 
"One of the keys we had was at wide receiver and also at quarterback," Holtz said. "We needed a quarterback who could throw the football." 
They landed both quite suc­cesfully. Eric Chappell, a 6-5, 220-pounder from Montgomery, Ala. was the arm they needed to fill the void that will be left by Ron Powlus and Thomas Krug. 
This year's receiving core is 
Not Notre Dame's average kicker 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Just don't call him a kicker. Well, maybe he is a kicker, but he doesn't act like one. Just call him Kordell Stewart with a strong leg. 
When Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz scoured the country for a solution to his kicking problems, Jim Sanson was one of only two kick­ers Holtz thought merited a scholarship. 
Sanson, best known for his thunderous leg, hit six of his ten field goal attempts, including a 52 yard field goal, and 91 percent of his kickoffs went for touchbacks during his senior year. In 1994, he was credited with the longest field goal in the country with a 58 yard boot, while connect­ing on 12 of 18 field goals. 
Yet, while Sanson may have won praise for his leg, it may have been his attitude that caught Holtz's eye. Sanson sees himself as more than just a kicker. 
''I'm not just a kicker," he explains. "I have the mentality of an athlete. Other kickers at Notre Dame have never played another po~ition before. They've just kicked or played soccer. I've played wide receiver and defensive back. I may even work with the receivers at Notre Dame." 
In Arizona, he earned all-state honors as defen­sive back, intercepting two passes and caught 50 passes for 801 yards and nine touchdowns. St. Mary's even had their kicker/receiver/defensive back rush the ball for 350 yards and four touch­downs. 
His sophomore year they even had him leading the team down the field on kickoffs. 
"They would send me down to break up the blitz," he said. "But my goal was to put the ball in the endzone. If I did get a chance to make a tackle, I'd give them what they deserved. I get mad if I don't put the ball in the endzone." 
Believe it or not, Sanson's talents don't end on the football field. He's also expected to play base­ball for the Irish next year. 
one of the strongest in the na­tion with Deveron Harper, Deke Cooper, Lewis Dawson, Jay Johnson and Lee Lafayette, though some may not be play­ing the same position when they come in the fall. The unit will be improved dramatically if and when Nelson signs. 
"We were not as suceessful recruiting defensive backs," Holtz said, "but the people we have can play running back, wide receiver and defensive back. The biggest problem we have now is to make sure (defensive coordinator) Bob Davie doesn't recruit these guys for defense." 
The one true defensive back the Irish did get, Texas native Ronnie Nicks, will be looked upon to make immediate con­tributions in a secondary that graduated three starters, in-eluding captain Shawn Wooden, this year. Like the receivers, the secondary will be improved dramatically if Berry, All­American were to sign. 
Running backs were not re­cruited too hard with the ex­ception of tailback Jay Vickers and fullback Joey Goodspeed, who. reminds many analysts of current Notre Dame fullback Marc Edwards. 
Definite strides were made on the defensive line with the sign­ing of All-Americans Jason Ching, a 6-4, 270 pounder, and Brad Williams, the 6-6, 250­pounder from Orange, Cal. 
"When I look at it, I think we have some people who have size and are used to playing in the defensive line that can pro­vide you "Zjth some anchors, which we have not had," Holtz said. 

page 21 
Tradition, new offense appeal to TE O'Leary 
Cooper adds a spark to Irish offense, receivers 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assistant Spons E(liror 
At 6-foot-5 and 225 pounds, he would make one hell of a linebacker. Some see him as a potentially disrupting defensive end and others a hard hitting, bone crunching safety. 
Yet, for Notre Dame head coach Lou Holtz and Florida head coach Steve Spurrier, Eric Chappell has the arm to be a prime-time quarterback. 
"l•:ric Chappell is a very fine passer," Holtz com­mented. "lie was recruited by a lot of passing schools, and we sold him on our offense." 
The Irish snagged this promising recruit from (iator territory. Even up until the end, the Gators coveted Chappell. but the Irish won out. 
"I was feeling very good about Florida," Chappell explains. "That is until Lou Holtz assured me of !wing a part of this ofTense and being quarterback." 
"With tlw changes we are making he has a duuu:n to be a big part of it," Holtz adds. "lie is also a great athlt~te." 
It is this athletic ability that makes him even morn attractive. Irish fans have been 1:.ereaming for tlw rt~turn to the option and look to last year's quarterback recruit .larious .Jackson to run it. Yet. with a nnw offense and Chappell's 6-foot-5 frame looming in the horizon. Chappell may be the quar­terback of the future. 
I le understands the Irish option but prefers the aerial option. It was Holtz's new "passing attack" that attracted him to Notre Dame. lie even tries to distance himsnlf from the stereotype of the one­dinwnsional option quarterback. 
"I can dnfinitely run the option," Chappell admits. "But I'm a pure passing quarterback." 
In his senior snason, he threw for 1,600 yards and 12 touchdowns. His junior year he threw for an even more impressive 2,300 yards and 21 touchdowns. 
Even the historically grounded Holtz agrees with Chappell's claim of being a passing quarterback. 
"We needed to get a quarterback who could throw the football," Holtz said. "That was our pri­mary concern. lie had to be able to throw the ball well. I think we answered that (with Chappell)." 
Yilt, some may say that the Irish may be able to use Chappell best elsewhere. While playing quar-
By jAMES BELDEN 
Sporrs Wrirer 
Some people crumble under it. Others thrive in it. Billy Joel sings about it, and it's old hat for All-American prep tight end Dan O'Leary. 
Pressure. 
"Running out on the feild gives you a charge, but once the game starts it's down to business," said O'Leary. 
He has done his job and he has done it extremely welL During his four years at Cleveland St. Ignatius, O'Leary helped his mates earn four state titles and one National Championship. 
Success has been synonomous with the 6-foot-5, 230 pound O'Leary wherever he has gone. 
"St. Ignatius has really prepared me for the college level in both the class­room and the weightroom. My days are structured in order to get enough time with the books and the weights," stated O'Leary. 
Playing side by side with Pete Chryplewicz was another bonus for O'Leary. 
"Pete's one of the premier tight ends in the nation, and I just hope that I can learn from him when I'm there. I'm sure that he'll help me out with the little things that make him one of the best," said O'Leary. 
Notre Dame's tradition of great tight ends will hopefully continue with 

terback, he also spent time at free safety where he dominated opponents. During his senior year campaign, he made 96 tack­les and picked off seven passes, and had intercepted six passes and racked up 90 tackles in his junior year. 
Though playing elsewhere isn't an option for Chappell. 
''I've been a quarterback all my life," he explains. "Playing another position doesn't interest me." 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT 
Assistant Sports Editor 
He didn't have the fame and recog­nition, but by the end of his senior season the college football world knew the name Deke Cooper. 
After having a rather quiet junior season, this 6-foot-4 205 pound tail­back burst into the Mr. Indiana race while leading his team to the state finals. He eventually ended his senior campaign with an impressive 88 car­ries for 925 yards and eight touch­downs. 
Yet, with such an enormous build for a tailback, it was Cooper's play at receiver and strong safety that impressed Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz. 
While working mainly out of the backfield, Cooper caught 16 passes for over 350 yards. An outstanding aver­age of over 20 yards per catch. 
"Deke Cooper is a very fine receiv­er," he commented. "This young gen­tleman can play either receiver or defensive back and fill a big void at 
JL'V ·""-''"" Oeveron Harper Orangeburg, SC Leon Hires Bradenton, FL Jay Johnson Starkville, MS Jim Jones Chicago Ridge, IL Lee Lafayette Hopkins Park, IL 14 Lance LeGree St. Stephan, sc 15 John Merandi Blue Jay, CA 16 Rob Mowl Pittsburgh, PA 17 Ronnie Nicks Kilgore, TX 18 Dan O'Leary Westlake, OH 19Jim Sanson Scottdale, AZ 20 B.J, Scott Brookville, IN 21 Jay Vickers Tallahassee, FL 22 Antoine Wellington Memphis, TN 23 Brad Williams Orange, CA. 
O'Leary's signing. 
"Notre Dame has always had great tight ends that have made it to the pro­fessional level, and making the NFL has always been one of my dreams," O'Leary revealed. 
The new Irish offensive mindset also appeals to O'Leary. 
"The coaches told me that the tight ends and wide-outs would be a major part of the offense in the near future. It was nice to just watch the Orange Bowl and actually see it in action." 
At St. Ignatius, O'Leary snagged 46 catches fm· 683 yards, including six for touchdowns. That is more than recent Irish tight ends' entire careers, but O'Leary hopes that it will become more of a norm. 
Dan's mind was made up even before he made his official visit. 
"I knew from the start that it was the place for me. I made an unofficial visit over the summer with my coach, and it was everything I imagined it to be." 
Coach Chmiel, the tight ends coach, was an integral part of O'Leary's com­mittment. 
"I was really relaxed with Coach Chmiel. lie's a great friend and I am looking forward to having a good time with him at Notre Dame." 
Hopefully, O'Leary will give the fans a reason to have a good time over the next four years. 
either one of the two. He could con­tribute next year." 
It fact it is more than likely that Irish fans will see this speedy star on the field next year. With the Irish moving to a more wide open offensive set with multiple receivers, more than one of the freshmen will be forced to step forward. 
"Last year was a great class, but we didn't know if any would start right away," Holtz said. "This year some people will have a chance at quarter­back, wide receiver or defensive back. But for that to happen the upper classmen would have to give them the chance." 
One doesn't see Ron Powlus or Thomas Krug stepping aside for one of the class of 2000, but receiver or defensive back is different. 
"We need a minimum of three wide receivers from this class," Holtz explained. "We recruited him as a receiver, and told him we could use him as a defensive back." 
Either way, the Irish will just want him on the field. 
Mobile, AL Montgomery, AL Honolulu, HI Ev~nsville, IN Federal Way, WA Casselberry, FL Gandy Garland, TX Joey Goodspeed Mongomery, IL 
The Ob•erer/Tom Roland 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 8, 1996 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
National champs add bumper crop of recruits 
to pick up the slack of leader­ship from Cindy Daws and Jen Renola. She fits into the chem­istry of the program." 
With the graduation of Michelle McCarthy and Rosella Guerrero, the program's top two all-time leaders in goals, Jenny Heft of Pius XI in Germantown, Wisconsin will step into the forward position. Heft, known as a quick fron­trunner, was the NSCAA Wisconsin soccer player of the year and four-time all-state se­lection. 
Like Grubb, Heft is also versa­tile, leading Pius XI to the 1995 Wisconsin state basketball championship. The star point guard was honored by both the Associated Press and USA Today, a season ago. 
Heft will be competing with midfielder/forward Jenny Streiffer from Baton Rouge High in Baton Rouge, Louisiana for a spot on an already talent­ladened squad. A four-time all­state choice, Streiffer is cur­rently a member of the United States U-20 National Team and was also named an NSCAA All­American in the fall of 1995. 
With the commitment of Grubb, Heft, and Streiffer, Petrucelli's efforts paid off after the trio caught his eye about three years ago. 
National  Soccer  Coaches  
Association  of  America  
(NSCAA).  

"Over the years, Chris has seen their wonderful attributes that will help us," Chin com­mented. 
As the senior season of the All-American goalie Renola ap­proaches, Petrucelli wasted no time in looking towards the fu­ture. With the signing of goal­keeper Lakeysia Beene of DelCampo High in Gold River, California, Notre Dame te­cruited one of the most coveted netminders in the nation. The 5-foot-8 Beene will see imme­diate time in goal, while learn-
ERASMUS BD 
• 
UseCJ books bought and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 


' 
• 
25,COJ Hardback and Paperback books in. stock 

• 
Out-of.Print Search ·service: $2'D 


• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six 1 Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 466,17 
· By JOE VILLINSKI 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The nature of college sports dictates that no matter the re­sults of the previous year, coaches never rest in a tireless quest for improvement. 
Just a little over two months after directing the women's soccer team to their first na­tional championship, Notre Dame head coach Chris Petrucelli believes that search is over. 
"Now that we've reached our goal of winning a national championship, the goal is to win more national champi­onships," Petrucelli said. "The only way you do that is with top-level talent. This year's class brings a combination of great athletic ability along with a technical knowledge of the game of soccer." 
Yesterday, the women's soc­cer program signed six players to National Letters-of-Intent in­cluding United States National Team member Jen Grubb out of Conant High School in Hoffman Estates, Illinois. Regarded by many as the top incoming defender in the nation, Grubb has played on the international level and was selected as Illinois Player of the Year by the 
"Jen is special because she is very athletic," assistant coach Carla Chin added. "More im­portantly, she understands the game and wants to be better. By coming here, she knows she will be better by the time she graduates." 
Grubb is already in a class by herself, graduating a semester early from high school as she recently accompanied the U.S. team to Brazil for a pair of games against the host country, while also playing in a two­game series against reigning World Cup champion Norway in the United States. 
It turns out Grubb also helped shore up the Conant High foot­ball squad's kicking game in the fall, doubling as a place­kicker in her spare time. She is expected to compete at the sweeper position left vacant by the graduation of Ashley Scharff. 
"She (Grubb) is a true leader/' Chin said. "She'll help 
FLOWERS DELIVERED cS17 DAYScSs 
(219)232-8444 . 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 

Clocktower Square ALL MAJOR CREDIT Phone Answered
51400 US 31 North South Bend CARDS ACCEPTED 24 Hours a Day 
277·1291 or 1·800-328-0206 
ing the game from co-captain 
Jen Renola. 
"I think it's such an honor to 
know that I am going to be part 
of a great team," Beene said. 
The goalie has aspirations of 
playing on the national team in 
the near future and knew there 
was no better program to aid 
her in realizing this dream than 
Notre Dame. 
"Obviously the team can help 
me down the road," Beene 
added. "The academic reputa­
tion and tradition of the school 
was also better than any other 
place I looked at." 
Chin also managed to survey 
a few of Beene's performances. 
"I was in awe of her athleti­cism," she said. "She was a very good complement to Jen. She also has a lot of experience. ·She may be a little raw techni­cally, but she makes up for it in being courageous, athletic, and 
a good distributor of the ball." 
Joining Grubb and Heft as 
NSCAA state players of the year 
is outside midfielder Kara 
Brown of Westminster School in 
Avon, Connecticut. An all-New 
England selection, Brown is 
also a member of the U.S. U-20 
naiional team. 
Mary Boerner of Bellarmine 
Prep in Orting, Washington 
rounds out the 1996 class. The 
four-year letterwinner can play 
defender and forward and is 
also a standout in basketball 
and softball. 
The versatility of most of 
these players underlies the type 
of athleticism that will be pre­
sent on the Irish squad next 
year. 
Besides their athleticism, 
............................. 
1\S Sm\N ON t:ns NI\1\'S "4
................................ 
DAYTONA BEACH 
I (4 j'lhijfi I 
STEAMBOAT VAIL/BEAVER CREEK HILTON HEAD ISLAND 
• PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK DAITS /LENGlli Of STAY. 
1~8QQ~StJ·N·CIIAS·E 
TOLL FREtf 1NFOI1WATION & 11ESEJ1VATIONS OYER TO 0111 SITE AT: 
TLe Ulti•nale Pia •nake 
each player's attitude was im­portant in the recruiting pro­cess. Five of the six players had already committed to Notre Dame before the Irish captured the national championship. 
"Everybody was real excited about the program and coming to Notre Dame," Chin added. 
Petrucelli also understands the holes he has now filled with the departure of this year's senior class. 
"These six players fill specific needs for us this ear," he added. "Now that we've had two classes come through and graduate, we're able to address the specific needs of the team when we look at incoming stu­dent-athletes. The six players we signed today will make an immediate impact on the pro­gram." 
"This is the dawn of a new era for us," Chin commented. "It's going to be a very good build-up from the foundation we already have." 

The Irish signed Lakaysia Beene of California to one day taka the place of goalie Jen Renola (above). Although Renola will return as the starter next fall, Beene should eventually take over in goal. 

every wednesday night. • 11:00 p.m. 
FRIDAY NIGHT 
US. MICHIGAN 
7P.M. 
SATURDAY NIGHT 
US. BOWLING GREEN 7P.M.
-
·······~' 
Thursday, February 8, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 

uh. .. 
11 
~00 QI!.G,I\NI>'E (\ '$-tvoE"''<" ('(\p./l.~\1 \o PP-o,.n't' r>-~~ Til£ E'~<.<q>qor<"L~'1 
lJC:o.'-'1 "'Mo 'Sou~LE ~'.> .\3u1Lt>•O'<G, ~ TI-IM ~ ~>.vE '&el" Cor~~TP.IJC.~D Or~ 
Or l.AT£ ... " 
I 
MISTER BOFFO 

DILBERT 
I TOLD YOU THIS PROJECT 
WOULD TAKE A YE.AR. BUT ON MY OB:rECTIVE.~ YOU 5AY I t'\UST 1-\~VE IT DONE IN T\11\E.E. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Pernod ingredient
1 Kickapoos, e.g. 
33 Hoopster6 "Tuna-Fishing" Archibaldpainter 34"Who,10 Silent one Horatius?"
14 Emulated the 
DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Although making olhers happy is a priority wilh you, give some !hough! 10 your own needs. II is imponam 10 save money for !he furure. lnsread of bestowing gifls on friends and loved ones, give !hem encouragemenl and underslanding. Romance will pro­vide some of !he year's brigh1es1 moments. Your career picks up sleam when you display slrong lead­ership qualities. Be willing 10 explore new and unfamiliar areas. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Audrey Mead­ows, pioneer sci-fi aulhor Jules Verne, actress Lana Turner, hockey player Dino Ciccarelli. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): An initial feeling of boredom or indif­ference will be replaced by excile­ment as the day progresses. Sel some new goals. Cryslal-clear com­munication is essemial when dealing wilh loved ones. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Financial security is a top priorily. Stick 10 conventional melhods in business. Make key phone calls. Good timing is a viral pan of your success formula. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Acl quickly on a unique opponunity and you will make fresh financial gains. Acting out of characrer could bring some surprising benefits at work. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may be reluctanl to break wilh rhe past. Take a chance, even if il seems risky. Do no! be discouraged if the pace is slower than anlicipat­
ed. Let a panner in on your plans. 
r------------------------,ur-------------------------. 


s WI-\ICI-\ OF TI-\E.SE REASONS 
~  13E5T DESCRIBES WH'(:  
;  A. 'r'OU HAVE GI\EAT  
~  CONFIDENCE IN ME.  
~  B. YOU THINK I  PADDED  

52 Indian sovereignty 
55 Like Cinderella before the Prince? 
58 Blue dye 
59 Kind of 
35 Baker or Battle,
Blob 
thermometer 15 "My People" e.g. 60 Ticket
36 Producers of
author imperativebangs?
16 Dash &1 20's
3BSwindle,
17 Like heavyweight
slangily
well-behaved Tunney
39 Put away the 
clerics? &2 Street band 
dishes
20 Singular &3 Goes the 
40 Exec's dispatch 
21 Mirror backing distance 
41 Pickle
22 It can bring a tear to your eye 42 Like tie-dyed clothes? DOWN23 The Great Commoner 46Hem 1 Fast food option 
24 Spelling on TV 47 Fritzi, to Nancy 2 Crucifix 
25 Like 48 Sally 3 Shirt label mosquitoes at a 51 Mercyhurst 4 High-riser, e.g. 
camp? College site 5 High-rise, e.g. & Danny of "Taxi" 7 Old actor Walter 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a--Cruces 9 Mass sections 
~':'-+'±7-f 10 Deserved praise 11 O'Grady of "Eight Is Enough" 
---~~ill~~1·1~@m 12Hambits 
111!1 11!1! 13 Screen 
~tu~···f!I]ill~~~· 1a Reply to the 

~ ,:;; Little Red Hen _.iilt:::-t:::+.:.'+.::-~:+::'-i!iiilliiiir.::Et7-l 19 Seine feeder -:-fiii!IIP~:+::+:~ 23 City on the 
Arno -,-+-=-+=+=+::-i 24 Pre-1917 ruler -:-:+7+;:;+.::7+.~ 25 One llf Polly 
Adler's ilk 
Puzzle by Cathy Mlllhauser 
2&Grammy­winning Baker 27 Hepatologist's specialty 28 Washington's --Station 29 Horse play? 30 "M*A*S*H" extra 31 Rake parts 36 Spinose mammal 37 Feminine friend 
38 Junk 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Guard
~ WE. DON'T I J"U5T FELT 
againsl acting harshly or selfishly. Gelling betlcr organized will help you lake care of lop priority pro­
: REALLY NE.ED A LITTLE 
] TI-lE P~O'JECT DIP IN M.'i 
jects. Your rapport with someone special deepens. 
~ !T'5 J'U5T A. t'\OTIVATION ~ WAY TO . 
JEANE DIXON 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Your interesl in charily work. or fundraising grows srronger. Be con­servalive in your dealings wirh orh­ers. Prominem people are impressed by your leadership skills. 
LIBRA (Sept 23-0ct 22): Close anenlion 10 derail is the key to suc­cess in business. Pur aside impracli­cal wishes and make wise work. decisions. An influenrial person applauds your abilily lo perform well when under pressure. 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21 ): Loved ones have an idea !hal could help you aurae! anenlion. Confide in an old friend if planning a change of residence. Use this evening to do somelhing producrive. S!udy or read a good book. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Mental focus is more imponam !han versatilily !oday. Acknowledge your responsibilities to those around you. An unexpecled visitor could change your work or social sched­ule. You benefil from going with the flow. Curb exlravagance. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. ::!2-Jan. 19): You will never achieve your career goals with a lentative effort. Pur your whole hean into whal you do! If image is impor1an1 in your line of work, shape up. Take pains wilh your appearance. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Inside information clues you in lo a financial deal. Check all derails before making a commirmenl. Attending a social event tonight will give you a chance 10 mingle with influential people. Dress 10 impress. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A privale chal could improve a work or domeslic siruation. You need room to maneuver where romance is concerned. Asking for more lime will provide some leeway. Avoid revealing 100 much 100 soon. 
·• OF INTEREST Meet tonight outside of the Oak Room in SDH at 6 PM for the weekly dinner with the Spanish Club . 
Igor Grazin, a former member of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, will be. giving a lecture entitled "Russian Danger and European Security" today at 
4:15 PM in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for 
..
International Studies. 
George M. Marsden. along with panel respondents Sr. Jean Kiene, Tom Parisi, and John Pauley, will be discussing "What Difference Should Christian Perspectives Make?" today at 4:30 PM in the Stapleton Lounge of LeMans Hall. Refreshments will be served. 
Born/Unborn: The Truth will be presented tonight by ND Alum Dan Ferrone '59 at 7 PM in Washington Hall. Tickets are free but donations will be aecepted to support the Women's Care Center. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame North Cajun Chicken Sandwich Garden Quiche · Pork Fried Rice Brown Rice  South Cajun Baked Cod Chinese Noodles with Snow Peas  
Saint Mary's  

Special Dinner-Black History Month 

40 Ambulance 51 Garden spot 
driver 52--horn 41 Dakar's land (shofar) 43Pot 53Keep-­
Have something
44 Giving a darn (persevere) 45 Trash 54 Jacuzzi set 48 Decorative 56 60's singer Little 
to say?
drapery 49 Caen's river 57 Vitamin bottle 50 Harness part abbr. 
Use Observer 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
classifieds. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City--------------State _______ Zip___________ 
.. 
.. 
--------------~­
SPORTS 
page 24 


Holtz holds 
high hopes for .lnt,!!nf Signees 
Class 0 f 2000 
MIKENORBUT 
Itwa>n't quite the atmo•phece of a yea< ago, when Notre Dame pulled in the top-rated recruiting class in the nation. But 1996's version of National Signing Day, however, was a satisfying time for 
Irish coach Lou Holtz and his staff. 
"Our coaches did a fine job," he said. "They'll get away for a week or so. Since about July 15 they haven't had a free day except Christmas. They've been at it seven days a 
week." 
Their hard work paid off, as 23 high school stars, includ­ing three Parade high school All-Americans, signed letters of intent Wednesday to play football for the University of Notre Dame. 
"They're very good football players," Holtz continued. "I thought our coaches put forth an awful lot of effort. We over­came an awful lot of obstacles along the way." Could those obstacles include the possibility of some nega­tive recruiting on the behalf of some recruiting schools? "I've tried to focus on the positives," Holtz said. "When I 
said obstacles, I mean you had to put out a lot of fires about Notre Dame before you could talk about your own program. As far as negative recruiting, I would never acknowledge that either way. 
"I wasn't aware of it, but I guess we have a curfew at Notre 
see RECRUITS I page 20 
Best ofthe rest: soccer, volleyball recruits 

Women"s Soccer·. 
Name/Hometown Jenn Grubb Hoffman Estates, IL .. · Jenny Heft Germantown, WI Jenny Streiffer Baton Rouge, LA Lakeysia Beene Gold River, CA Kara Brown Avon, CT Mary Buerner Orting, WA 
Thursday, February 8, 1996 

National Letter of 
·hope to ~ign one or two more. I con!!.~~nt we will sign one more." ·····" ·· -Coach Lou Holtz 
Brennan OL 6-5 270 Mobile, AL E~jc Chappell QB 6-5 220 Montgomery, AL Jason Ching DL 6-4 270 Honolulu, HI Deke Cooper WR/DB 6-4 205 Evansville, IN Lewis Dawson WR 6-0 180 Federal Way, WA 
·Ferrer LB 6-3 230 Casselberry, FL Gandy TE/DE 6-4 235 Garland, TX 
.Goodspeed FB/LB 6-0 230 Mongomery, IL Deveron Harper WR 5-10 175 Orangeburg, SC Leon Hires OL 6-6 280 Bradenton, FL Jay Johnson WR 6-2 170 Starkville, MS Jim Jones DL 6-4 260 Chicago Ridge, IL Lee Lafayette RB/WR 5-10 188 Hopkins Park, IL Lance LeGree LB 6-2 248 St. Stephan, SC John Merandi OL 6-3 273 Blue Jay, CA Rob Mowl OL 6-5 290 Pittsburgh, PA Ronnie Nicks DB 6-1 215 Kilgore, TX Dan O'Leary TE 6-5 230 Westlake, OH Jim Sanson K 5-11 185 Scottdale, AZ 
B.J. Scott DL 6-4 250 Brookville, IN Jay Vickers RB 6-1 205 Tallahassee, FL Antoine Wellington LB 6-2 230 Memphis, TN Brad Williams DL 6-6 250 Orange, CA 
Name/Hometown 
Matt McNew Dallas, TX Alan Woods 
Burtonsville, MD Matt DeDominics Simsbury, CT John Krivacic Carrollton, TX Ryan Cox 
Position Defender 
Defenderw1x 
i# Defender 
.:r;. Forward 
Broadview Heights, OH 
~,---~ 
,. 
·.~/ ~ 
Name/Hometown ry Leffers 6' 4" Tampa, FL Mardi Powell 6' Manroeville, IN Emily Schiebout 6'1" Roseville, MN Lavrer Stettin 6' Hinsdale, IL 
Utility Hitter Setter 
Women's Soccer see page 22 
Men's Basketball 
vs. Sr. John's, February 11, Noon 
Women's Basketball 
SPORTS. 
at Georgerown, February 10, 7 p.m. 
at a"'
-Hockey 
vs. Michigan, February 9, 7 p.m. 
GLANC 
Men's Soccer Women's Volleyball see page 19 see page 19 

• Women's basketball romps Pittsburgh Tennis 
see page 17 
Men and Women at Rolex indoor Championships, February 8-11 
• Syracuse, Kentucky roll easily Indoor Track 
see page 16
at Indianapolis Invitational, Feb. I 0 
• Pistons upset Magic, Philly tops Indy 
see page 14 



