
Thursday, April4, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 119 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Patrick, McCarthy name Board report contributors 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
A~sociau: Nt"w~ Editor 
This spring. the Board of Trustees will learn about mulli­wlturalism from widely-ranged pnrspnetives. It will hear the porsonal aeeounts of members of tlw student body. according to outgoing Student Body Presi­dent .Jonathan Patrick and Vice President Dennis MeCarlhy, who y1~sll~rday announced stu­don t gov1~ rn nwn t's choice of eontributors to their Spring I1JI)(J Board of Truste1~s Heport. 
In addition to attending the Board of Trust1ws meeting in ~~arly May, whnre they will give pr1~snntations of their personal nxpnrienees, the committee nwmlwrs will formulate a re­port and make reeommenda­lions to llw Trustens. 
Some of thesn recommenda­tions may indudn "adding more professors of color to the facul­ty and increasing the number of Nhnieity programs at the Uni­versity," MeCarthy said. 
Thn following studnnts were chosen as members of the com­mittee: 
•Luisa 
lleredia, president of the Hispanic American Organi­zation 

•Christinn 
Haley, Center for Social Concerns intern on mul­ticulturalism 

•Anthony 
Silva, a representa­tivn of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Damn/Saint Mary's Col­lege and a member of the Ad lloc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. 

•Cristiano 
Likely, columnist for The Obsnrver 


While Heredia, Haley and Silva will give oral presenta­tions at the meeting, Likely will include some of her editorials in the report. thus contributing a "student voice in written form," Patrick said. 
As an "impetus," she is re­sponsible for increasing discus­sion of multiculturalism on campus. Patrick said of Likely. 
Silva· said he is looking for­ward to offering the knowledge he has gained through his ex­periences at Notre Dame to the 
King calls Farrakhan 'threat' to America 
By KELLY FITZPATRICK 
Nt·w,Wrill·r 
ThP mPssages of Nation of Islam IPadPr Louis Farrakhan n•pn•spnt a thn~at to the United SlaWs, according to N1~w York Congn~ssman 1'11t11 1\.ing. 
1\.ing dmwuncPd Farrakhan's languag1~ and actions while dnnming th11 figun~·s r11cent trips to Africa. l.ybia, Sudan and Nig1n·ia a "tour of terror." 
King, areompanind by securi­ty, lu~gan his sp1~nrh by talking of rnrPnt d1~ath thn~ats that lw had rn1:nivnd. saying, "Tlwrn 


The Observer/Michelle Sweet 
arP pnopln that thriv1~ on hatH; 
New York Congressman Pete
thl'rn arn pnoplP that thrivn on 
King spoke out against Nation of
inti111 idation." 
Islam leader Louis Farrakhan.
lin tlwn prnsnnlnd his main argunwnl against Farrakhan. 

tanee of Mornar Khadafi. 
saying that Farrakhan violatml 
Farrakhan traveled openly to 
tlw law in visiting l.ihya and nlil'iling tlw firuuu:ial assis­
see KING I page 6 earthy and Donoghue, the other members of the student govern­ment Board of Trustees Group that selected the candidates include Maeaire Carroll, Kelly Cornelis, Steve Hernandez, Qiana Lillard and Greg Vanslambrook. 
"We're really excited," Patrick said. "We've chosen some incredible people who represent a wide-range of the student body. Their personal experiences will add 'power' to the report and an emotional component that will 'humanize' the statistics student govern­ment is presenting to the Board of Trustees." 
"They will tell it well and hon­estly," he said. 

"They are all very knowl­edgeable," McCarthy added. "Everyone will bring a personal side to the report." 
"We have chosen four excel­lent candidates," Donoghue said, explaining that the com­mittee looked at the individual 
see BOARD I page 6 
Luisa Heredia 
Freshman, Howard 
President-Hispanic American Organization 
Anthony Silv~~..... Jr. 
Junior, Morrissey Representative from GLND/SMC 

committee and incorporating the issue of sexual orientation into the framework of the re­port. 
"As minority groups, we need to unite to educate the larger community and to engourage acceptance and respect," he said. 
Roger Donoghue, a member of the student government 
_ch_r_ist_in_e_H_a~M!'ol~y 
Sophomore, Lyons esc intern on multiculturalism 
Cristiane Likely
II lilillif-r~Hki> · 

Senior, PW Observer Columnist 


group that selected the candi­dates, commented that "all of the reports were excellent and well-written." The group is con­fident that the communication skills of the candidates will help the committee in educating the Board on multiculturalism from the student body's perspective, he said. 
In addition to Patrick, Me-

Rockin' the house ... 

Matt Curreri, a Keenan freshman, performed at the Zahm Acoustic Jam in the LaFortune Ballroom yester­day evening. 
Panel calls for diverse faculty Saint Mary's to adopt 
By MATT GAREAU 
Whil1~ Notn~ l>anw's apparnnt lark of cultural and ~~thnie di­VI'rsity is not uniqun in higher nd ueation, signilkant progrnss towards a more diverse cam­pus should involvn the hiring of morn minority faculty mem­hors, ac~cording to a panel of spPaknrs sponsored by the C1•rHlnr Studins lkpartmnnt. 
Two faeulty rnnmhnrs and LhnH~ gradual!~ studnnts offnred llwir vinws y1~stnnlay in a eriti­eal issuns roundtahlo entitled, "Wiwrn's tlw Action in Minority AfTirrnativn Action: Aeadnrnia and tlw African Anwrican Ex­(wrimH:IL" 
l>r. Kirnlwrly Flint-llamilton, assistant dnan of the College of Arts and Letters. spoke about thn n11nd to hire more blaek faculty not only at Notrn Damn, 
see PANEL I page 4 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 

Court rulings hinder affirmative action 
By KELLY BROOKS 
News Writer 
The affirmative action debate has grown as recent eourt rulings have begun to chip away at this precedent allowing for racial prefer· enees. The trend began in July of last year when the University of California Re· gAnts Board voted to end racial preferences in hiring and admissions. 
Just last week. the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled against the University of Texas Law School stating that race cannot be considered when admitting students. The court held that the Fourteenth Amendment does not permit the school to use racial prefer­ences in its admissions pro­gram, which had benefitted blacks and Mexican­Americans. 

"The Law School has pre­sented no compelling justifica­tion, under the Fourteenth Amendment or Supreme Court precedent, that allows it to continue to elevate some races over others, even for the wholesome purpose of correct­ing perceived racial imbal­
see ACTION I page 4 


experimental schedule 
Changes to begin in the fall as part of one-year test 
By LORI ALLEN 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Saint Mary's College will ex­perience class scheduling changes next fall as a result of a newly instituted experimental system set up by the University of Notre Dame. 
Saint Mary's class schedule for the fall of 1996 will consist of Monday, Wednesday, and Friday classes every hour on the hour, beginning at approx­imately 8 a.m. and running through 5:50 p.m., with the ex­ception of very few, if any, classes from noon through 12:50 p.m. 
"We felt that this system of scheduling classes every hour on the hour would be more convenient for both students and faculty, and we were also trying for a way to keep the noon hour open for meetings. lectures and Brown Bag lunch­es," said Hegistrar for Saint Mary's College Sister Francesca Kennedy. The option of tak­ing a 75-minute class that runs from 3 p.m. through 
4:15 p.m .. and from 4 p.m. 
see SCHEDULE I page 4 
This is the last issue ofThe Observer until Wednesday, April 10. 
Have a safe and joyous Easter. 

-----·-------------------. 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, April4, 1996 
• INSIDE Crn.UMN 



Defining 
a 

headshot 
Bear with me here please. This inside col­umn thing isn't as easy as it seems. 
I would Jove to write a moving, insightful piece praising the many bene­fits of baseball in one's life, but I'm aware that 

there have been Dylan Barmmer approximately 63 

Assistant Sports Ediror 
columns about our national pastime in the last two weeks alone. (I'm still trying to figure out where all these rabid baseball nuts are hiding every time I scan the sparse crowd from the lofty heights of the press box at Frank Eck stadium, but that's an entirely dif­ferent issue.) 
I also know that the issues of tolerance, negative people, and the general crapiness of the dining hall food are old hat, which further reduces my options here. Keep in mind also, please, that the last time I spoke out in this forum I fell in ill favor with the people at Right Reason, who not only branded me a liberal (imagine that!) in the pages of their second issue, but also threatened to hire me as a "Special Correspondent on Evil Naughty Occurrences Around and About our Suddenly Morally Bankrupt Campus." 
So, my dear reader, I have decided (now that I'm rapidly running out of space) to take this time and space to deal with a highly important issue, namely the hidden yet amaz­ingly vital social implications of the headshots which often accompany the names of those who brave this challenging territory. 
Take my picture for example. (Please don't laugh). Let's start with the hat. 
At first glance little more than a grungy "Domer" trademark, a closer look reveals the symbol of all that is wrong with the world of sports, as well as the "real" world, in our increasingly corporate society. That's right, the swoosh. Nike. I think we can all see which direction Nike is leading us in as a soci­ety. Picture your history professor, once a proud and free man, under the thumb of Nike, which. having grown tired with its domination of the world of sports, has expanded into the realm of higher education. A gaudy gold swoosh gracing his tie, he instructs you in the dynamics behind Michael Jordan's winning the presidential election in 2004. You'd like to think you're doing well in his class, but Reebok is sponsoring your education, which means a C-if your lucky. 
Sound ridiculous? Laugh while you still can. This is reality, twenty-first century style. Moving on to the goatee. Actually, let's not even touch on that issue. Too hairy. 
What's left then, you might ask (assuming 

you're even reading this)? What more can we 
possibly gain from a more concentrated look 
at this picture, besides the very real possibility 
of a violently ill stomach? 
Well, the truth is, I really couldn't tell you. 
That's right, the extent of my insight stops 
here. I'll leave it up to you, the talented stu­
dent that you certainly are, to carry on my 

groundbreaking research. Only you can take 
this thing further. 

You and your six million dollar a year Nike 
professor of humanistic studies, that is. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  
Bill Connolly  
Derek Betcher  Production  
Belle Bautista  
Sports  Tara Grieshop  
Betsy Baker  
T. Ryan Kennedy  Lab Tech  
Katie Kroener  

Graphics Christopher Mullins 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All rt:"produc[ion righrs are reserved. 
• WtmUJ AT A GLANCE 

Midwest boasts America's most affordable homes 
WASHINGTON 
Buyers looking for affordable housing might shop in the Midwest, which had more than half the nation's 25 least­expensive markets in the final three months of 1995. 
The National Association of Home Builders said Wednesday that con­sumers could choose from metropolitan areas such as Kansas City and Minneapolis, or smaller cities like Lima, Ohio, the most affordable city in the nation. 
Lima regained the top spot on the Home Builders Housing Opportunity Index that it last held in the fourth quar­ter of 1994. Kansas City and Minneapolis were the only cities with populations of more than 1 million to make the Top 25. 
Still, affordability improved in many other U.S. markets as prices and mort­gage rates both fell, the Home Builders said. In fact, the nation had a 63.4 read­ing on the index, up from 61.3 from July through September and suggesting greater purchase opportunities. 
The index measures the proportion of homes sold in a specific market that a family earning the median income could afford. The median is the midpoint, meaning half the families earn more and half earn less. The index also takes into consideration differences in property taxes and insurance rates. The latest Jist 

U.S. housing markets 
Percentage of the homes sold that were within reach of the median income household at the prevailing mortgage interest rate. 
Most affordable 4 2 1 


~~·· 
1. Lima, Ohio  86.2%  
2. Elkhart, Ind.  85.3  
3. Baton Rouge, La.  84.7  
4. Kansas City  83.4  
5. Melbourne, Fla.  83.1  
Least affordable  
1 5  4  


r~:t~~~~~t 
I. San Francisco 21.4% 
2. 
Santa Cruz, Calif. 27.8 

3. 
Laredo, Texas 29.7 

4. 
New York City 34.6 

5. 
Santa Rosa, Calif. 35.7 


Source: National Association of Home Builders 

was based on a survey of 525,000 sales of new and existing homes in 192 metro­politan areas. 
"Housing affordability improved across the country in the fourth quarter as interest rates fell from about 8 percent in the third quarter to below 7.5 percent by the end of the year," said association president Randy Smith, a builder in Walnut Creek, Calif. 
That difference in the cost of a 30­year, fixed-rate mortgage would mean a monthly savings of $35 on a $100,000 mortgage. In addition, the Home Builders said, the median price dipped to $117,000 from $118,000 in the third quarter. 
But after falling to a two-year low of 
6.94 percent in mid-February, rates began rising, reaching 7.83 percent in mid-March before falling back to 7.69 percent last week. Analysts say that for every percentage point increase in rates, 250,000 to 300,000 families are priced out of the market. 
The Home Builders said the most affordable areas remain in the Midwest, which had 13 of the top 25 markets. The Northeast and South each had six. The West, the least-affordable region, had none. The least-affordable markets regionally were Chicago in the Midwest; New York in the Northeast; Laredo, Texas, in the South, and San Francisco in the West. 
Autry eyes Hollywood role 
CHICAGO 

Star college running back Darnell Autry may go ahead and take an unpaid movie part this summer even though the NCAA objects, a judge ruled Wednesday. NCAA rules bar athletes from appearing in commercial films. Cook County Circuit Judge Thomas Durkin sided with the Northwestern sophomore, a theater major who was 


offered a part in two scenes of a super­natural thriller called "The 18th Angel," scheduled for filming in Italy. NCAA officials were considering an appeal of Wednesday's decision. "We want to enforce the rules," said Bedell Tippins, a lawyer representing the NCAA. One of Autry's lawyers, Peter Rush, said the Heisman Trophy finalist could still risk sanctions if he accepts the role. A NCAA spokeswoman said penalties could range from him losing his two years of eligibility to a one-game suspension. 
Upjohn discovers impotence cure 
BOSTON 

The first injection treatment approved for relieving im­potence works well in most men, allowing sexual inter­course that both they and their partners consider satisfactory, a study found. Self-administered injections have been used routinely for the past decade to help men who have trouble achieving erections. However, only one of them, the drug Caverject, has been formally approved by the Food and Drug Administration for this purpose. A study of the drug by its maker, Upjohn Co., was published in Thursday's New England Journal of Medicine. In an accompanying editorial. Dr. Larry Lipshultz of Baylor College of Medicine in Houston called the injections "a well-accepted and efficacious treatment for erectile dysfunction." The men reported being able to have sexu­al activity after 94 percent of the injections. 

Unsubsidized farming grows riskier 
NEWMAN, Ill. 

For the first time in more than 60 years, farmers on the Albin family homestead are preparing for spring planting without the government telling them what to grow on their flat, fertile land. "Dad's been farming 40 years, and I'd say it's the biggest change he's seen," said Perry Albin, who grows corn and soybeans with his fa­ther and brother David. Since the 1930s, the government has guaranteed farmers a set price for their grain and has paid them the difference if the market price falls be­low that. In return, farmers agreed to plant certain crops on a set number of acres determined by the Agriculture Department. But a farm bill, which President Clinton is expected to sign, eliminates the subsidies, price supports and planting directions that have arrived as regularly as the seasons for generations of American farmers. In­stead, farmers will get Jump-sum payments that dwindle to nothing over seven years. They will have to rely on the agricultural markets and their own instincts, not the gov­ernment, in deciding what and how much to grow. 
Italian Nazi defends role in massacre 
ROME 

A former Nazi officer on Wednesday defended his role in the massacre of 335 Italian civilians during World War II, saying it was a "perfectly legitimate" response to at­tacks on Nazi forces and that to disobey would have meant death for him as well. Erich Priebke, arrested in an Argentine mountain resort in 1994, also expressed remorse and "veneration for the dead," said his lawyer, Velio Di Rezze. The victims included Roman Catholic priests, a 14-year-old boy and 75 Jews. "In all of these years this issue has been like a weight in my heart," Priebke, 82, was quoted as saying during a closed hear­ing in a military court. Witnesses said he sat expression­less and immobile throughout. Priebke was extradited to Italy last fall. The court must decide whether the former SS captain should go on trial. 
Thursday, April 4 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, April 4. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1996 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Pressure 

H L B E;sJ [TI] 0 . [Z] 8 -t) !:J. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PTCLOUDY CLOUDY 

Via Assoctated Press 

Atlanta 68 54 Chicago 45 
Baltimore 55 43 Dallas 60 
Boston 45 37 Denver 40
4,9,~A.e8 (f ~.u 
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries snoW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 43 36 Geneseo 43 
Via ASSOCiated Press Graph/csNet 

Charlotte 78 62 Los Angeles 77 
26  Miami  81  66  
47  Minneapolis  41  20  
27  New Orleans 70  57  
26  New York  51  39  
57  Philadelphia 51  39  


Thursday, April 4, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
'Bandits' bolster market 
Nasdaq system lets pros guide trading activity 
By MICIIAEL EARLEY News Wriler 
"SOES bandits" are beneli­dal to the Nasdaq stock mar­kt)t, according to a study released by Hobert Battalio, assistant professor of finance at Notrn Dame, and two of his collrmguns. 
The Small Order Execution System was ereatnd and im­pltmwntml by the Nasdaq sys­tem al'ler the stock market crash of I1JH7. This computer­iwd system allows small in­vestors to make trades with­out having to wait for large institutional investors. The system was inttmded for "non­professional" ust~ according to Professor Battalio. 
llownwr. Nasdaq Pslimates that the majority of the trans­actions on the system origi­nate from professional investors. These "bandits" constantly monitor the trends of the market to take advan­tage of the best stock prices. 
Traders then make high speed trades with broker deal­ers who cannot react as quick­ly as these individuals. They have been blamed for increas­es in the volatility in the mar­kets, as well as decreases in the amount of brokers making markets in Nasdaq stocks. 
Professor Battalio 's report, compiled with Brian Hatch from the University of Delaware and Hobert .Jennings of Indiana University, docu­ments the complex relation­ship between market volatility and "bandit" trading. 
"Our analysis suggests that markets for Nasdaq stocks are made more efficient by the existence of SOES activist trading," Battalio said. llis group found that high levels of SOES trading cause high levels of volatility in the very short run (one minute), but actually lower levels of volatility in the slightly longer term. Essentially, "bandit" trading seems to lead to a burst of trading activity followed by a lull, according to the report. 

The study was conducted using data collected in .June and July of last year and ini­tially included all Nasdaq issues. "This finding has important implications for Nasdaq as they search for a system to replace SOES, and for the Securities and Ex­change Commission as they evaluate alternate systems," according to Battalio. 
The intention behind the system is to protect the small investor from a bottoming out of stock prices like the one experienced in 1987. Safety nets like the SOES automati­cally shut down trading after a significant point loss in the market rating. 
CELEBRATE A FRIEND'S BIRTHDAY WITH A SPECIAL OBSERVER AD 
D6c6'1 

ERASMUS 80 KS 
• 
Used books bougi1t and sold 

• 
25 categories of Books 

• 
25,CXXJ Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print Search Service: $2"' 

• 
Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 
4:00PM Tuesday, April 9, 1996 
Law School Courtroom 
Crin•e ttf tl1e 
Ceaa·tury: The Trial and Execution of .Julius and Etlael Rosenberg and Capital Punishtnent 

The Younp;er Son of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg 
Execrtlt•d by tlu• Cm•emmenl ofthe Unitt~d Stllles, june 19, 195.1 
Attorney Robert Meeropol is the son of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg, falsely executed when he was six for stealing the 11Secret of the atomic bomb." For over twenty years, Robert Meeropol has been a political activist, author, and speaker. His credits include articles in the New York Times and the Nation, the book We Are Your Sons, a second revised edition published by the University of Illinois Press, appearances on the 11Today Show" and 11Mike Douglas Show," and speaking engagements at Colby College, California State University, Chico, Harvard University, Indiana University Northwest, and more that 50 other institutions since the 

1970's. 

ND experts critique goals of line-item veto 
Faculty probes Senates latest legislation 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writer 

The power to fund legislation was assigned to the House of Representatives by the Consti­tution. llowever, the Senate passed a line-item veto on March 27 that would give the President the power to remove appropriations that he deems inessential from bills passed by Congress. 
According to Peri Arnold, a government professor and di­rector of the llesburgh Pro­gram in Public Service, "The bill has too many restrictions to be very effective. It limits the President to only one quar­ter of the current budget by eliminating the entitlements from veto, and he can only veto money that is appropriated, not the programs themselves." 
The legislation treads upon the often debated ground of separation of powers as set out in the Constitution. "The Con­stitution is pretty clear that the budgeting power lies with the 
U.S. Congress," said Martin Saiz, assistant government professor. "This bill gives the President more powers than he currently has, powers that are reserved to Congress." 
This argument brings up the constitutionality of the bill. The bill could be a question­able grant of power to the President. "I myself see no real separation of powers problem, but how the Supreme Court will interpret the lan­guage of the bill is anyone's guess. If control over judicial funding is affected, that might raise a constitutional ques­tion," said Donald Kommers, a professor of government and concurrent professor of law. 
The professors also voiced concerns over the use of the veto and the responsibility that is given .to the President. 

"There have been studies that state legislatures with the line­item veto have loaded up bills with extraneous programs, passing the buek for removing responsibility l'or them to the executive. Also, there is more power for the President to tar­get specific legislative districts and possibly punish or reward legislators for their support," said Saiz. 
However, many sec the posi­tive aspects to the idea of a line-item veto. "Anyone who has thought seriously about the line-item veto realizes that it is a good thing. It gives the power to appropriate funds to the President who is the only one elected directly by all of the American people," Kommers said. 
The main purpose of the bill, as stated by its authors, is to 
'Jt gives the power to 
appropriate funds to the President who is the only one elected directly by all of the American people.' 
Professor Donald Kommers. Government 

eliminate so-called "pork" pro­jects. These projects are added to a bill by legislators to bring jobs and federal money to their districts. 
Currently, the President must either veto or sign the en­tire legislation. But, under the line-item veto, the President can remove funding for pro­jects that he finds inappropri­ate. Congress can override the veto by simple majority legisla­tion, but it must do so in the 30 days immediately following the veto. 
"My hope is that, with this bill, the President could clean out pork projects and make legislation more clear to the public," said Saiz. 
The bill needs to pass the House before it becomes law and President Clinton has agreed with Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-Kansas) that the law will not even go into effect until next year, effectively removing it as an issue in this year's presidential election. 

The Observer 
Attention All News Writers: 
Ifyou are interested in writing for 
The Observer 
News Department, Please attend the inaugural Writers' Workshop on Wednesday, April 10, at 7:30 PM at The Observer, 3rd floor LaFortune. This meeting is mandatory ifyou want to write during the rest ofthe semester. 
Questions? Call Brad at 1-5323 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 4, 1996 
court," Fick explained. be racially discriminatory. "The court made it clear they The recent ruling contradicts This decision, like the others, can make decisions based on
Action Schedule
the previously accepted inter­was based on the equal protec­who gives money to schools and pretation of Regents of the Uni­tion clause of the Fourteenth whose grandfather went there.
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
versity of California v. Bakke, Amendment, and applies only Why should someone get pref­ances in the student body," the which has been used to justify to state actors (college admis­erence who buys their way in through 5:15 p.m. on Mondaysthe use of racial preferences in sions officers). when a historically disadvan­
Appeals Court ruling stated. and Wednesdays is also open to 
The effects of the ruling, how­achieving a diverse student "It doesn't matter if it is pub­taged person is not given pref­students for next fall. ever, are limited to public body. lic or private money, the state erence?" Fick offered. "The Saint Mary's will go along"It's going against the ac­cannot hand out any money Constitution prohibits govern­
schools within the Fifth Circuit, with Notre Dame for the sched­
cepted interpretation of the based on race," Fick explained. ment from taking race into ac­
which includes Texas, uling of classes on Tuesdays 
Louisiana. and Mississippi. Bakke case which is a plurality "[They] cannot base a program count; it doesn't say anything and Thursdays. Classes will "In my opinion it [the ruling] decision with a majority conclu­on race unless it meets the about taking money into ac­begin on Tuesdays and is very limited. The equal pro­sion," Fick offered. adding, strict scrutiny test." count." 
Thursdays at 8:00 a.m. and run 

tection clause of the Fourteenth "The majority did not actually Developed under the Four­Fick was highly critical of the through 6:15 p.m. with no agree on how to get to the bot­teenth Amendment, the strict following passage from the rul­
Amendment only applies to break in between for lunch. 
tom line, but they agreed on the scrutiny test allows a state or ing: "The use of race, in and of
government actors, which "This will perhaps end the 
would be state universities and bottom line." government actor to use race itself, to choose students simply crowding in the dining hall dur­Justice Powell's opinion on as a basis for making a decision achieves a student body that
local public schools," com­ing lunch," said Francesca. 
mented Barbara Fick, professor Bakke was not the actual court if 1) a state can prove com­looks different. Such a criterion The class scheduling changes 
decision, but his opinion has pelling evidence for using race is no more rational on its own
of law. are experimental and have only 
Any agency. whether public been used in most interpreta­and 2) the race-based terms than would be choices been approved for one aca­or private, that receives federal tions. "Previously Powell's de­classification is narrowly tai­based upon the physical size or 
demic year, beginning in August 

cision was the one that was lored. blood type of applicants." 
funds would have been affected in time for fall classes. "If stu­
looked at and interpreted. "Narrowly tailored" means Fick reacted, "For all sorts of
by the ruling had it been based dents and faculty do not ap­
on a federal statute. Article VI Lawyers look for the lowest that, in Fick's words, the "pro­reasons, you can argue with le­prove of these changes, it would of the Civil Rights Act, a statute, common denominator. Justice gram using it infringes on the gal analysis. The ruling shows 
be absolutely no problem to 

Powell's decision says that you least amount of rights." Such lack of knowledge of the history 
was part of the plaintiff's argu­shift to something else, or per­
ment, but did not play a key can take into account the need reasoning was used by the Fifth of this country. People based on haps a better idea," said for diversity as long as it's one Circuit in the Texas decision. blood type does not make a dif­
role in the decision. Francesca. 
"The court's analysis does not among other factors," Fick said. The long term effects of the ference. Lynching was not at all depend on Article VI," The Texas decision is one Texas decision are unknown. based on blood type or body Fick said. among several recent rulings While precedence has only size." 


Have a 

"It [the ruling) only creates which have undermined the use been set in the Fifth Circuit, it "Race makes a difference in precedence within the Fifth of affirmative action in colleges. may aid those arguing against this country, whether we like it Circuit. For example, the Uni­In a University of Maryland continuing affirmative action. or not. If it affects how they versity of Indiana is under no case, the U.S. Court of Appeals "The ruling encourages people [judges of the Fifth Circuit] view 

HaPPY 

obligation because it is in the for the Fourth Circuit struck trying to dismantle affirmative legal issues, it makes it [the rul­Seventh Circuit. But the ruling down a scholarship program action to continue fighting," ing] suspect," Fick concluded. may be persuasive to another 
for black students, feeling it to Fick commented. 

Easter!! 

in recent years. However, she the black community outside of cautions, "We have a long way campus," he said. "[On cam­
Panel 

to go." Last year, minorities pus], there is a disparate num­made up only ten percent of the ber of lifelines for us to grasp
continued from page 1 

graduate school enrollment. hold of." 
but also at colleges around the The need for a more diverse The assembly of speakers also country. Dr. Janice Poorman, faculty was further expounded collectively saw the need for a assistant dean of the Graduate upon by the three graduate stu­more diverse curriculum that School, discussed recent efforts dents participating in the discus­could attract more minority stu­to increase the percentage of sion. Estelle McNair is the only dents. McNair explained, minorities seeking doctorate African American student in the "Diversity among the curricu­degrees at Notre Dame. graduate history program which lum breeds diversity among stu­
"There is still a gross lack of is also devoid of black faculty dents." black faculty at American uni­members. "With the lack of a The panel hoped more minor­versities," Flint-llamilton said. diverse faculty, I was lost," she ity professors would eventually 

arrive in South Bend to teach diverse classes that can attract minority students in order to not only make Notre Dame more diverse in the future more com­fortable for the minorities already here. 




CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
We are currently accepting applications for next year. 
FuRNISHED APARTMENTS SWIMMING POOL & JACUZZI TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL, & BASKETBALL COURTS 24 HOUR LAUNDRY & SHUTTLE BUS PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
*Limited Apartments available for your selection* 
For more information call272... 1441 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ( ( 
She expressed her beliefs that affirmative action programs need to be perpetuated in order promote diversity both at Notre Dame and elsewhere. Also, con­trary to contentions that af­firmative action policies take the best jobs away from those who deserve them, she stated, 'Women and minorities hold the 
east desirable faculty jobs." 
Efforts in the graduate schools 
excluding the law and MBA programs) to increase minority enrollment should serve as a model for the rest of the univer­sity, according to Poorman. From 1993 to 1994 she cited a 105% increase in minority appli­cations to Notre Dame graduate programs which has kept pace said. 
Kerry Ann Rocquemore, a graduate student studying so­ciology, shares similar feelings. "The lack of diversity among faculty members robs students of role models," she said, while explaining that this phenomina discourages minorities from seeking advanced degrees. Furthermore, as a black woman in academia, Rocquemore feels she must be "twice as good to be seen as equal." 
Rob Lane, a student in the English Department, stressed the need for the black commu­nity to be developed-something he believes should be a high pri­ority for the administration. "I got what I needed by going to 
Are you looking for an on-campus job for next school year? Would you like to work part-time in your residence hall? 
The Office ofInformation Technologies is now accepting applications for Resident Computer Consultants. 
RCCs will assist students who are having difficulty con­necting their computers to the campus network. Interested? Fill out an electronic application on the Web. http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~ccwww/app.hrml 
Ifyou have any questions contact Brian Burchett or Hani El-Kukhun at Burchett.l@nd.edu or El-Kukhun.l@nd.edu 
~------------------------------------------~ 


Thursday, April 4, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
Cabinet member's plane crashes 
Ron Brown and 32 others among missing in Croatia 
By GEORGE GEDDA Assnd.u~d Press 
WASHINGTON 

A military plane carrying Cornnwrcn Secrotary Hon Brown and 32 others eraslwd on a hill­shin a fnw rnil1~s outside the port city of Dubrovnik, Croatia, in stormy wnallwr today. Hospital officials said llum~ was at least o1w survivor. 
Brown. !i4. was lnading a dnl­~~gation of Amnrican businnss nxnr.utivns from a doz1~n eom­panins hut tlwrn was no eom­plntl~ list of who was on the phtnn or word of their fate. 
Croatian oflirials said the tail section of Brown's Air Foree plant~ was discovered on the rnotJJllainous Croatian coastline and four bodies had bnnn found. Tlwrn was no indication that hostile fire was involvml in the crash. 
At llw Pentagon, Air Force l.t. {;en. I lowell Estns said tlw plane carried 27 passengers and a rrt~w of six, and that contact with tlw aircraf'l was lost as it approacl11~d I>ubrovnik's air­port. 
"We can only hope that re­ports of survivors nro true and that morn are found," Estes said. 
Fanita I·:nglish, mollwr-in-law of I. Donald Tnnwr, o1w of the missing Pxm:utives who was in Brown's d1dngation, said the Statn l>•~pnrtnwnt told her that tlw first survivor found was a womn11. Slw had no other de­tails. 
l'n~sid•~nt Clinton told sober 
t~ 

nmfiin-!1 
. t:fmf& h, ~.~n . 
Pnmfrtfl'~ · 
rf~r f:fmf& 1:11 i".JCU · 
11nmfrrtJ·~ ' 
ff~~ ffmli1 f:-t1 i'.JtU . 
11 nmfrril'~ i ff~r ffm4t f:-tl rr.alf · rlnmfnn'~ , ''~~ rfm~ 1:11 ,...n · 
11omfna'!: 
•

ff~r ffm~ t.1a ~..~~ 
nnmfnllli~ : • 
~:tm~ t-"13 ii"..J!JIJ 

nl'lifiifiiiflw~ :1 
.fC$ f ; 
, I 

r------~------~------, 

: 99c :$5.99 :S10.99: 
I Garlic I Large I 2 Large 1 
I 11 T • 11 T • I
1Breadsticks 1 -•opp•ngl -•opp•ngl I with any I Thin, Hand Tossed I Thin, Hand Tossed I 
I . I Pizza or Deep Dish I Pizza or Deep Dish I I PIZZa order. I Extra I Extra I 
1 1 Not valid with other offers. 1 Not valid with other offers. 1 
Commerce Department work­ers, "We don't know for sure what happened." lie said he had visited with Brown's wife, Alma, and called Brown "one of the best advisers and ablest pnople I evnr knew." 
Of the people on the plane, he said, "I'm very grateful for their lives and their service." 
Croatian President Franjo Tudjman, interviewtJd on CNN, said the plane had crashed into a hillside near the sea and that he had sent confirmation to Clinton. 
Dr. Mladen Minovic of Dubrovnik hospital said the unidnntified survivor was still at llw crash site, a hill on the Adriatic coast south of this port city. There was no information on the survivor's condition. 
Croatian Prime Minister 

Zlatko Matnsa and U.S. Ambas-Adriatic Detail sador Peter Galbraith, who had L__s_·ea___a_re_a___.____D_u_b_ro_v_n_ik___, 
been in Duhrovnik to welcome Brown, were touring the site where the tail was found, ac­cording to thn official Croatian news agency IIINA. 
Brown's plane had departed earlier today from Tuzla, the town in northeastern Bosnia where U.S. troops with the NATO-led peace force are basmi. 
Two senior dnfnnse of'licials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there was no indication of any hostile lire at the aircraft. "None whatso­ever," one of the oflicials said. "I can tell you the weather was ll~rrihle." 
The second official said the Unitnd States and NATO have the entire greater Bosnia region coverml with aerial surveillance and dntected no hostile action against the plane. 
"We've got a pretty clear air 
® 


picture in that area," the oflicial said. "Early indications are it has more to do with tough weather and a tough approach." 
Brown was flying on an Air Force T43, the military equiva­lent of a Boeing 737, a mid-sized airliner with two engines. 
Brown's son, Michael, told reporters outside the family home, "We're still hopeful." 
Brown's trade mission in­cluded Commerce aides and of­ficials from energy, banking, aircraft, construction and other companies. 
One official who was eon­firmed to be aboard Brown's plane was Charles Meissner, assistant Commerce Secretary for international economic pol­icy, according to officials at the Justice Department where Meissner's wife, Doris, is head of the Immigration and Natural­ization Service. 
competitors coupons, and are open every day for lunch! 

Banker says Clinton knew of illegal loan 
By CHUCK BARTELS 
Associated Press 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
A banker testified today that then-Governor Bill Clinton was present when one of his Whitewater business partners discussed work on a land de­velopment that was later com­pleted with money from an illegal $300,000 loan. 
David Hale, beginning his third day on the stand, said President Clinton, then gover­nor, attended a meeting in early 1986 when defendant James McDougal discussed developing land south of Little Rock. 
Hale testified that the loan was discussed at the same meeting, but his testimony did not indicate whether there was any link drawn between the loan and the land develop­ment. 
Hale also testified that after the loan was approved by the Small Business Administra­tion, McDougal attempted to file a back-dated loan applica­tion to more accurately indi­cate how the money was spent. 
Hale said he wouldn't let McDougal change the applica­tion because he already had sent the paperwork to the SBA and because McDougal's new application listed uses that were barred by SBA poli­cy. 


We accept all 

The original application said the money -which Hale said was split between McDougal and Clinton -would go to a marketing firm run by Mc­Dougal's wife, Susan. The re­vised application McDougal tried to file called Mrs. Mc­Dougal's company a broker­age and said the money was used to complete work on a land development. 
"If the auditors came in and saw the document in the file, after (seeing) the other one in it, there would have been a serious investigation," Hale said. "It would show that the funds originally loaned to Su­san McDougal wasn't used for the stated purpose." 
Hale was not allowed to dis­cuss whether Clinton knew how any money discussed at the meeting was spent. 
Defense attorney W.ll. "Buddy" Sutton said during a break that, under rules of evi­dence pertaining to hearsay, prosecutors couldn't bring up the question of whether Clin­ton knew details of how the money discussed at the meet­ing was spent because Clinton is neither a defendant nor an unindicted co-conspirator. 
Hale was not asked whether McDougal knew it was illegal to use an SBA loan in a way different from how it was list­ed on the original loan ap­plication. 
Hale's company, Capital Management Services Inc., was a small business invest­ment company that under Small Business Administration rules was barred from lending money to buy and improve real estate. 
.-••-.----~:-;~;-0--.:-t-;0~-~ 
Emily Rufner
Now ,.,, Easter? Give us a HiriOg!+ call 1-!nd we'll hop
II • r1ght over! 

CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• ••• CONSIDERATIONS 
page 6 
King 
continued from page 1 
Libya, and afterwards, Khadafi promised to give Farrakhan one bil­lion dollars to 'penetrate American society,' King said. King cited this as a direct violation of sanctioning acts against Libya. 
King believes that it is wrong to use foreign money to influence American politics. The Justice, State, and Treasury Departments all have juris­diction in such a case, according to King. 
Although the State Department asserted that it would detain and question Farrakhan upon his return to the United States, King said that Farrakhan was allowed to walk directly through customs to his car without ever having his passport checked. "If David Duke had taken a trip to South Africa, you can bet there would have been an investigation," King said. 
The State Department's only action against Farrakhan was to send him a letter asking him whether he thought he should register himself as an agent of Libya, King continued. "Farrakhan openly violated the law and nothing has been done about it," he said. 
King criticized Farrakhan's meet­ings with Saddam Hussein in Iraq and other terrorist leaders in Sudan and Nigeria, saying, "Other Americans would have been subjected to investi­gation and downright harassment for that." 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
However, King continued, Farrakhan has gotten special treat­ment because members of Congress are afraid to confront such a contro­versial figure, especially during an election year. 
King has been fighting for addition­al hearings to follow the one that took place a few weeks ago in regard to the legality of Farrakhan's actions. "I would be willing to roll the dice and let the American people decide who's right and who's wrong." 
King said he will continue to denounce Farrakhan's racist message and initiate further investigation into Farrakhan's actions. "It's an issue that strikes at the core of what's wrong with our country today." 
The response to King's lecture, which lasted much longer than the lecture itself, featured many impas­sioned questions for King to answer. 
Several audience members addressed King's use of the word "racism,'' saying that their definition of the word "racism" is prejudice and power. They believe he mistook racism for prejudice, and that Farrakhan could never possibly be a racist because blacks have never been in a position of power. 
King's response was that he consid­ered prejudice and racism inter­changeable, and that Farrakhan was guilty of both. 
Several audience members also criticized King's use of words like "evil" and "terrorist" in reference to Farrakhan. One member pointed out that "attacks do not engender heal­ing." King responded by saying that his use of such words was fair and that he did not reserve them solely for Farrakhan. Rather, he would apply them universally to people preaching hate messages. 
Other audience members, including several members of the Nation of Islam who attended the response period, questioned King's condemna­tion of the awarding of security con­tracts to the Nation of Islam. They said that the Nation of Islam has pro­vided many benefits while King responded that the contracts had been awarded unlawfully. 
The basic criterion for awarding the contracts is that they go to the lowest bidder; according to King, the Nation of Islam was not the lowest bidder but was still awarded certain con­tracts. lie also pointed out that Nation of Islam security was not trained. "It's damaging to the country to give these racist groups money to further their racist message." 
King said that his goal in pushing for Congressional debate is to bring out issues that affiict blacks and show that Farrakhan's good deeds cannot be separated from his words. "If his overall message is one of racism, then it cancels out any good he's done,'' said King. 
King graduated from Notre Dame Law School in 1968, and currently is a Republican representative of the state of New York. He has helped catalyze two separate Congressional investigations into Farrakhan's activi­ties. The lecture, "Louis Farrakhan: A Threat to America," was held in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Thursday, April4, 1996 

hilean troupe Qdance at Stepan 
Special to The Observer 
Bafochi, Ballet Folklorico de Chile, the interna­tionally famous Chilean dance troupe. will perform April10 at 7:30p.m. at Stepan Center. 
The 18 dancers and seven musicians in the troupe will present colorful music and dance rep­resenting various cultures of Chile and other Latin American countries. 
Established in 1987 by choreographer Pedro Gajardo Escobar, who still directs the group, Bafochi has given more than 2000 award winning performances throughout Latin America, Europe. the Middle East and North Africa. 


Board 
continued from page 1 
reports each person submitted and decided what each candidate had to offer the committee, while keeping in mind its theme. 
The group determined what each candidate could contribute to the committee's goals on mak­ing the Board aware of multiculturalism issues at Notre Dame "in the way that was most construc­tive," Donoghue said. 
"We mean multiculturalism in the purest sense of the word-diverse cultures living together not just minority concerns," Patrick told The Observer on March 21. 
Noting the "positive attitude" present during the meeting at which the group decided upon the can­didates, McCarthy commented, "We were all really excited, anxious to get together to work on this." 
TRIDUUM, THE THREE DAYS 
Some people become so well known to the rest of us that we don't need much to identifY them. Bill and Hillary. Monk. Lou. The artist formerly known as Prince. 
These next three days begin a time so important to the Church we identifY them simply as "The Three Days." The Latin word is Triduum, which sounds fancier, but both languages recognize that in the whole of the Church year, we accord the liturgies we will celebrate tonight, tomorrow and Saturday night a special status. We know these days well enough that we need little to identifY them--we don't need a "last name." 
During The Three Days, we gather together as a community to celebrate the liturgies of the Last Supper; the Passion and death ofJesus; and the Easter Vigil. We live with Jesus the sorrow and pain and humiliation of death and we enter with him into the joy and promise of resurrection, salvation and life. 
But how do we enter into that salvation? We don't literally die with Jesus--and in fact, we don't watch him die over and over each year either. Through our own baptism, Jesus calls out to us that we must not miss any of the whole of life --we must believe that really to live means to live as Jesus did, to discover through loving others the whole truth of entrusting our lives ro God. We know this on Holy Thursday when we hear the Gospel story ofJesus washing the feet of his disciples and watch the presider wash the feet of ordinary men and women--maybe our neighbor's feet, maybe a stranger's, maybe our own. 
If we call Holy Thursday the Mass of the Lord's Supper, if it commemorates most solemnly the sacrament of the Eucharist, then why do we pay so much attention to feet? Feet are unglamorous, plain, even ugly. To wash another's feet signals that this kind of humble service to others calls us to salvation, to live as the Body of Christ. The sacrament of the Eucharist nourishes us to live as Jesus did --and it means nothing if it does not somehow transform our hearts to wash feet, to wipe away tears, to welcome the outcast, even to suffer injustice or death. 
Sometimes we hear that death "puts it all in perspective." In fact, the pain and the sorrow and the seeming finality and negation of death seems only to laugh at our notions ofsuccess in the world. Yet God does know most intimately what it means to be filled with sorrow, even the sorrow of the most difficult mystery to understand or accept, the death of one we love. Our baptism challenges us to be willing to suffer with others, to bear a cross. God gives us each of our lives as a gift; God calls us to accept that gift by living as stewards, as loving--yet in the end. temporary--caretakers of our lives. Jesus' cross, his humiliating death, helps us to know that even death is part of that gift. 
Why do we call the cross the sign of hope? Because Jesus took all suffering with' him in his death on the cross and turned it into victory; he let us know that now nothing, no sin of ours, no matter how great, could defeat God's love. Jesus' disciples found him an embarrassment; he seemed like no Messiah but only a failure. Yet before The Three Days end, Jesus takes up all failure, all death to himself and wraps it in an embrace oflove. 
The Three Days conclude with the Easter Vigil, the holiest night of the year. The Gospel story describes the amazement and confusion of Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother ofJames, and Salome at their discovery ofJesus' resurrection. They go to his tomb out of sorrow and love, and discover that God's love is greater, more overwhelming, more triumphant than they had ever imagined. We renew our own promises of baptism and join in Jesus' resurrection. We discover again and again not failure but triumph, not defeat but victory. We begin to learn that others whom we have encountered, maybe even scorned, in our lives --maybe we ourselves --are not failures at all, but God showing us what being human is truly all about. 
Often in the midst of our communities during the Easter Vigil, we have with us people who will be baptized, who will join with us in Jesus' challenge, in his embrace oflove and his willingness to entrust life and suffering and joy to God. In our Notre Dame community, we have I 0 srudents among us who will be baptized, and I 0 who will be received into full communion with the Catholic Church. All 20 will be confirmed and will share in the body and blood of Christ through the Eucharist. Please keep them in your prayers, and may we all discover again the joy ofJesus' resurrection and the call to live the messages ofThe Three Days throughout our lives. 
Kate S. Barrett 
Please welcome the following members of the Notre Dame community, who will be baptized and received into the Church at the Easter Vigil. 
Sacraments ofInitiation 
Jill Clemens Ricardo Fallon Sherrx Fischer Michelle Inouye MaiLx Todd Mtller Benjamin Paine Erica Peterson Colby Springer Kristopher Winningham 
Reception into Full Communion 
Jason Beckwith Heather Belanger Elizabeth Blackman Marc Conner Ann Frigon Brian Laudeman Karen Lutjen Steven Malynn Steven Walters Jennifer Warner 
Thursday, April 4, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Harvard grad under suspicion in Unabomber case 
ton Post published, in the Post, his 35,000-word treatise on the inhumanity of industrial society after he promised to stop plant­ing bombs that kill people. 
The attention of investigators was drawn to him after his family approached federal offi­cials with their own suspicions about his role in the Un­abomber's 17-year bombing spree, one official said. 
The Montana Justice Depart­ment said a closure order, signed by an FBI agent, had been issued for airspace within five-mile radius of Lincoln, Mont. 
CBS News said the initial re­port about the man came ear­lier this year from an attorney 
Trail of the Unabomber 
( \1

Federal agents in Montana took Ted John into custody. They suspect the former professor is the 
'·(I

Unabomber. l;i 
~·
The trail ofbombings: 

9 1,2 Evanstm[]. • ~ 
Ill.
Auburn, Wash.~ 

. 4 J 10 
. nn Arbor,
11,16 ~ Cl
11cago Mich. 
Sacrament~.
Calif New /Iaven, 

7,8 .----Conn. Berkeley 
~~~·. 
13 
~ 
San Francisco 
[L'""C•/:we/1 NJ

. 
·1 Suspect captured I
5,U 
-Washmgton, D.C.
Salt U.1ke City, Utah 
1 May 25, 1978: A bomb at 
6 

Northwestern University, injures a Nashville, Tenn. 
who approached the FBI on ._____se_c_u_ri....:.ty-=g=--u_a_rd_._____:___________________.~ behalf of a man who suspected The first Unabomber ineident quent Unabomber attacks; the that the Unabomber might be oceurred at Northwestern Uni­most recent was April 25, 1995, his brother. versity outside Chicago in 1978. when a timber industry execu­The FBI has been hunting the Three people have died and 23 tive was killed in Sacramento, Unabomber since 1978. more were injured in 15 subse-Calif. 
• BOSNIA 
U.N. unearths mass grave 
By MICHAEL SNIFFEN Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Federal agents have been fol­lowing a former professor turned in by his family as a pos­sible suspect in the Unabomber killings, and they prepared Wednesday to search his Montana home, federal law enforcement officials said. 
The man under suspicion was deseribed as a Harvard gradu­aw and a former professor at the University of California at Berkllley, aeeording to one fed­eral offieial. who requested anonymity. 
1\ second federal law en­forciHntmt ol'licial said the man has been undl'r surveillance for "a short period of time." The seureh was set to take place at tlw man's home in Lineoln, Mont.. the seeond ollkial said. 
"We like the looks of this guy as the Unabomber, but we don't have make or break evidence yet," the first official said. "We have some writings that match up, but we don't have his tools yet. We want the irrefutable mother load of evidence." 
Members of the man's family found some old writings of his while cleaning out a place where he once lived, and the writings raised their suspicions, this official said. They ap­proached an attorney in Wash­ington, who called the FBI, to alert the bureau. Federal agents later got consent to search the former residence, this official said. 
The FBI has spread copies of the Unabomber's writings throughout the academic com­munity in hopes of finding someone who recognizes the work. 
Last September, The New York Times and The Washing-

Assisted suicide case may reach top court 
L.J Bosnian government-Groat federation C Serbs Republic -~~ Possible grave sites 
20miles 
E23 
20km 

nTuzla 
A~ Zvornik YUG9·
•> (Serb1a) 

Vlasenica t Q 
~Giogova
Novi [ 1~ Kasaba 1 
0 
Sandici Srebrenica 

BOSNIA· 
HERZEGOVINA 
CROATIA Sava River I 
~Banja 
·-·Luka 
Detail area 

BOSNIA· r 
HERZEGOVINA :O.L:.---..J 
Sarajevo  ./::)Goraz~  
50 miles  YUGO. (Monlonegro)  
50km  

By RICHARD CARELLI A>'<Kiated Press 
WASHINGTON 

1\ Supreme Court seemingly rnluetant to elarify the scope of Amerieans' right to die may feel eomp1dled to answer a question speeding its way: Can states ban doctor-assisted sui­cide? 
"Tiw eourt ean't duck this," said Suzanna Sherry. a Univer­sity of Minnesota law profes­sor. 
University of Michigan law professor Yale Kamisar agreed. "W1~'ve had two bomb­slwlls within 30 days, more action in this area of the law than we've had in the previous 20 years. I think tiHl justiees have to take a look at all this." 
But Mary Cheh, a George Washington University law professor, suggested other­wise. "If history is any guide, they'll take their time," she said. "If they ean avoid this, they will." 
Two federal appeals courts have sent shoek waves through the medieal and legal communities by striking down state bans on doctor-assisted suicide. 
On March 6, the 9th U.S. Cir­cuit Court of Appeals struck down a Washington state law by saying the constitutional right to privacy eneompasses a terminally ill person's decision get a doctor's help in choosing exactly how and when to die. 

By GEORGE ESPER Associated Press 
SAHINICI Under the protection of 
U.S. troops, war crimes investigators on Wednesday found human remains and other evidence of a mass grave in a muddy field not far from Srebrenica. 
Wearing plastic gloves and rubber boots, investigators from the U.N. tribunal marked each of the 50 pieces of evidence with numbered yellow markers, including a leg bone, a piece of rib cage and a skeleton. 
Wednesday was the first day of a mission to scrutinize seven locations in eastern Bosnia believed to contain the remains of Muslims killed last summer after the Srebrenica offensive. 
But that mission is only one small part of an attempt to gaure the full extent of killing in Bosnia: The arrival of spring in the first year of peace in the former 
Please Recycle The Observer 

CELEBRATE THE RESURRECTION 
at 

fiRST UNITED METHODIST CHURCH 
333 N. Main St., Downtown South Bend (CornProfMui" & Mudi.•on St•. ) 
Easter Worship Services • Sunday, April 7 
··-·1 7:30a.m.-Church Youth-led Drama and Special Music. Easter Vigil I 8:45a.m.­Chapel Choir. Holy Commutlion. ll:OO a.m.-Brass and Percussion ensemble, Sanctuary 
Service I 

and Covenant ChoirH, and Celebrntion HingerH. Saturday, April 61 : 8:00p.m. ; Easte·r Homily: "A Tale of Two Tombs"-Dr. Smith 
L······-···-···-·······----·····-__] Easter breakfast in the Social Hal/8:1.5 a.m.-10:30 a.m. Sponsored by Ihe Senior High and Junior High Yowh Groups of First Church 
Nursery care throughout the morning. Parking behind the church, at Scottish Rite and Jr.
Start Friday 

Achievement. Dr. Ellwood (Woody) Smith, Senior Pastor, Tim Robinson, Director of 
April 12TH 

Music/Organist, Cindy Solum, Director of Christian Education/Youth Ministries. 219 233-9463 
Yugoslavia has thawed the ground around several hun­dred suspected mass grave sites on all sides of the for­mer front lines, and grisly secrets may come spilling forth. 
The Sahinici field, about the size of a basketball court, is some 18 miles northwest of Srebrenica, a demolished town where as many as 7,000 Muslims were believed to have been killed by Serb fighters last July in one of the Bosnian war's worst atrocities. 
The site, whieh contained some brush and a pool of water, appeared to have been tampered with, as mounds of muddy dirt rose from the ground. On one side of the site was a field of corn. 
"We are collecting pieces of evidence," said Jean-Rene Ruez, one of six members of the investigative team. He did not elaborate on the find­ings, saying only that the dig would continue Thursday. 




VIEWPOINT 



page 8 April 4, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Mart Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Desi!l" Manager...............................Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Producnon Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­rion ofeirher insrirurion. The news js reponed as accurarely and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4 543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.l@nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


AIDS endangers Notre Dame 
Dear Editor: ing is that AIDS can be so hidden. 
I doubt there is a person today who has not I feel the Notre Dame community must be heard of the deadly disease, AIDS. This spring reminded of the hidden nature of the disease. break, I had the opportunity to work at the South We feel very safe. Compared to other campuses, Bend AIDS Ministry, a service that provides we see little of the risk behaviors associated with counseling for those infected with the disease. the disease. Yet we know anyone can have AIDS, 
There is a stereotype of AIDS that often attrib­including ND students. The greatest danger is to utes its spread solely to high risk behaviors such assume that you are invincible to such a disease, as promiscuity and drug abuse. Before I worked that it cannot happen to someone as young or as at AIDS Ministry, this is exactly what I believed. smart as yourself. The truth of the matter is that However, I was shocked to see the diversity of anyone can become infected. It only takes one those infected with this disease. People who had time of having unprotected sex. never participated in any behaviors associated DAVID BOUCHER with high risk were diagnosed with AIDS. They Senior were victims just the same. Even more frighten-Keenan Hall 
• Goo t.J~ l1rr: 

Faith eludes 'known' world 
When John of the Cross coined the term "dark night of the soul", did he base it on his own experience of being imprisoned in a veritable clos­et-without light-by other monks? For that is what the dark night is like: being trapped in a very small, dark room. The soul feels utter emptiness, cannot see the light that is Christ, and knows not when it will end. 
Did Jesus face a similar void as he approached Golgotha? "Knowing" that God is there is one thing, an intellectual thing. Jesus "knew" why he was being crucified, what all the pain and torture would accomplish. "Feeling" the Almighty's strengthening hand supporting us is another matter. As Jesus stumbled and fell on the stone streets of Jerusalem, the cross weighing on his back, where did He find His Father? 
Of course, our blessed Lord found his father waiting on the other side of the Cross. We shall do the same, no doubt, af­ter our own death. For now, 
Julie Ferraro 

though, a soul shedding its at­tachments to worldly things, slipping silently away from sources of false security, just might come up seemingly empty. Left with a faith that may be shaky or strong-both saints and sinner have endured the dark night-in faith alone it must wait for the night to pass. 
The dark night, for many souls, is a long, drawn-out or­deal. We may doubt our reason for living, for praying, for be­lieving. We may get stuck in a mire of spiritual pain and though we cry out, we may think God does not hear. 
Still, we must hope, we must pray, we must keep the faith. 
"Jesus did not come to explain away suffering or remove it. He came to fill it with His pres­ence," wrote Paul Candel. A soul must turn the emptiness, the confusion over to he Lord and let Him fill it, even if it takes time. 
Many souls who have tra­versed the dark night (or been struck in the middle of it) would not wish it on anyone else. Our annual observance of Lent, our commemoration of the Passion and Death of Christ, calls us to risk the dark night. Lent moti­vates us to transform our souls, to step out in faith and follow Christ more closely. as we re­call how the Roman soldiers pounded nails into those blessed hands and feet, how the sky grew dark while His tor­mented voice pierced the air, we must imitate His courage and His trust, and remember that the Father-though he may seem far away-is ever near. 
Julie Ferarro is secretary in the Freimann Life Science 


• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"To do each day two things 
one dislikes is a precept I have followed scrupulously: every day I have got up and I have gone to bed.." 
-W. Somerset Mangham 



VIEWPOINT
Thursday, April 4, 1996 page 9 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Every human being possesses natural rights 
Dear Editor: the sexual acts, and the acts and lesbian student organiza­"Every human person, creat­ability to know, which is a con­
In lwr Opm1 Letter, published alone, that are said to be tions per se. The Cateehism ed in the image of God, has the dition of every judgment and in The Obst~rver on April 2nd, "intrinsically disordered" and does not offer any such authori­natural right to be recognized decision. It contains the seed of Vice President Patricia O'Hara not permissible (#2357). As for ty. So I would like respectfully as a free and responsible being. discord and all consequent has announced the formation of homosexual persons: "They to ask her to explain publicly All owe to each other this duty evils. Lying is destructive of an ollkially reeognized group of must be accepted with respect, what her authority or rationale of respect. The right to the society; it undermines trust gay and lnsbian students. This eompassion, and sensitivity. is for the prohibition. If, on exercise of freedom, especially among men and tears apart the is to he a University group of Every sign of unjust discrimina­reflection, it turns out that in moral and religious matters, fabric of social relationships" stud1H1ts but not a University tion in their regard should be there is no significant authority is an inalienable requirement of [#2486(. student group. Slw explains avoided ... "(#2358). or rationale for the prohibition, the dignity of the human per­thn distinction at some length, Thus, The Cateehism does not then it should be rescinded. son. This right must be recog­'It is by no means and briefly m1m ti ons the endorse the negative view of It is by no means extreme to nized and protected by civil 
extreme to suggest

absolute prohibition that homosexuality that is present in suggest that Catholic institu­authority within the limits of und•~rli•~s it: "I do not believe a 1992 Vatican document, tions should follow the example the common good and public that Catholic institu­that thn recommendation (of "Hesponding to Legislative of The Catechism in recognizing order" [#1738, emphasis in 
tions should follow the 

tlw Ad lloc Committee) calls for Proposals on Discrimination and respecting the homosexual text]. ITPation or rneognition of a gay Against Homosexuals" (Origins orientation as well as homosex­(e) The Cateehism teaches example of The and l•~shian student organiza­Vol. 22, No. 10). The policies of ual persons. This recognition that groups derive their right to Catechism in recogniz­tion. nor would I accept such a some Catholic institutions are and respect should be based on recognition from their mem­
ing and respecting the

n~rommend ation." founded, directly or indirectly, the minority status of homosex­bers' individual human right to on this document-in which it is ual persons' sexual orientation. recognition, and from their homosexual orientation not only homosexual acts but So as long as the group abides human right to organize so as 
as well as homosexual

'Vice 
President also the very eondition of homo­by the same rules that apply to to reach goals that individuals Patricia O'Hara sexuality itself that is described all other groups at a Catholic cannot reach on their own: persons. This recogni­as an "objective disorder" institution, the issue of minority "To promote the participation 
tion and respect shouldhas announced the for­

(paragraph 2). sexual behavior will not even of the greatest number in the mation of an officially This 1992 document attempts arise. life of a society, the creation of be based on the minori­to distinguish "unjust diserimi­voluntary associations and ty status of homosexual 
recognized group of 
nation" from "not unjust dis­institutions must be encouraged
'Thus, Professor persons' sexual orien­
gay and lesbian stu­crimination" against homosexu­' ... on both national and interna­al persons (paragraphs 10-13). O'Hara apparent­tional levels, which relate to tation.'
dents. This is to be a 
"Not unjust discrimination" ly considers that a gay economic and social goals, touniversity group of stu­would be diserimination against cultural and recreational activi­After six months of reflecting
and lesbian student
chmts but not a univer­persons who reveal that their ties, to sport, to various profes­on these quotations from The orientation is homosexual by organization, unlike sions, and to political affairs.' Catechism of the Catholic
sity student group. She 
"objectively disordered external This 'soeialization' also Chureh, I find it morally impos­
other minority student
explains the distinction conduct" (paragraph 12), or by expresses the natural tendency sible to go on strongly implying "publicizing" their orientation organizations, would for human beings to associate in my everyday life that I am a
at some length.' 
(paragraph 14). Even the act of with one another for the sake of heterosexual person.
be inconsistent with the 
self-revelation (or "coming attaining objectives that exceed As in the case with heterosex­
Catholic character of
It is in hl'r March 6, 1995 out") is said to be a sign of individual capacities. It devel­ual persons, homosexual per­OpPn l.nttl'r that Professor approval of "homosexual Notre Dame. The ops the qualities of the person, sons like me who disclose their O'llara Pxplains lwr authority behavior or lifestyle" (para­especially the sense of initiative sexual orientation, should not
Catholic Church does 
or rational!' for tlw prohibition. graph 14); and such acts of self­and responsibility, and helps to have to couple their disclosure Shl' basi's it on Church teach­revelation are said to constitute not equate homosexual guarantee his rights" [#1882, with a discussion of their sexual ing. Slw SPI'ks "appropriate "a danger" (paragraph 15). emphasis in text]. history. But the newness of
organizations per se 
r han n PIs" for men tin g the While The Catechism of 1994 (0 Although it does not take open Catholic participation in lli'Pds ol' IPsbian and gay stu­has implicitly endorsed the with groups that are note of the fact that, in our the diseussion, and the false dl'nts: " ... rhannl'ls that allow 1992 document's view that society. all persons are pre­assumption of our society that
inconsistent with 
us to haluJH'P our dPsire to sup­homosexual acts are intrinsical­sumed to be heterosexual, The all candid gay or lesbian per­port our gay and IPsbian stu­ly disordered, it has not Catholic teaching.' Catechism does note that the sons are sexually active, incline dPnts with our rPsponsibility to endorsed the many other nega­number of homosexual persons me to discuss my sexual history rPmain faithful to tlw teachings tiVP statement about homosexu­Furthermore, Catholie institu­in the world is "not negligible" in the interest of avoiding scan­of thl' Catholir Churrh." In lwr ality in that doeument. In thus tions need to acknowledge that [#2358]. In this context, I dal-not only as a Catholic, but man d a II' to tlw .\d II o c departing from the 1992 docu­The Catechism offers teaching would like to point out that one also as a Catholic priest. I have CommittPP, l'rofl-'ssor O'Hara mPnt, The Catechism is not that should be construed as form of discrimination against a sexual history of being celi­Pxplicitly prohibits thPm from changing Parlier Church teaeh­support for the recognition of homosexuals is to discourage bate. Because I have taken a suggPsting tlw rPrognition of ing-bPcause the 1992 docu­groups of gay people, governed lesbian and gay people from vow of celibacy and because I any gay and IPsbian studPnt ment was never an official by gay people, for gay people­disclosing that they are, in faet, believe that sexual activity is group whatsoP\'Pr. tearhing of the Church in the so long as these groups do not homosexual-not heterosexual. meant by God to reside in mar­
Thus. ProfPssor O'Hara first plare (see the "Navarro­in any way eneourage their Such discouragement may riage, I do not engage in sexual apparPntl~· ronsidPrs that a gay Valls Statement," in Origins membnrs to break the institu­reach the point of inducing activity with anyone. Like het­and IPshian studPnt organiza­Vol. 22. No. 10). tion's rule that prohibits .sexual homosexual people to lie about erosexual priests who have tion. unlikP otlwr minority stu­Since it condemns neither the intercourse outside of mar­their sexual orientation-that never used their position to dPnt organizations, would be homosexual orientation as riage. Consider the following is, to state or strongly imply take advantage of a girl or inronsistt>nt with the Catholic surh, nor homosexual persons, quotations: that society is right to assume woman, I have never used my characlf•r of :'\Ootn• DamP. But, The Catechism of the Catholic (a) "[Homosexual persons] that they are heterosexual. position to take advantage of a in fart, Tlw CatPchism of the Church neither directly nor must be accepted with respect, This discrimination misleads boy or man. Catholir Churrh 1191J.tJ does not implicitly prohibits the "coming compassion, and sensitivity. young homosexuals into seeing Since, as a priest and a citi­PlJll!llP homosPxual organiza­out" of gay and lesbian Every sign of unjust discrimina­something shameful in their zen, I support equal rights for tions pPr SP with groups that Catholics. Furthermore, The tion in their regard should be sexual orientation, and it pre­homosexual people (i.e., the arP incon-;istPnt with Catholic Catechism neither directly nor avoided ... " [#2358}. vents mature, responsible rights that are already exer­!!'aching. implicitly forbids gay and les­(b) "The equality of men homosexual adults from offer­cised by heterosexuals), I want 
Tlw CatPrhism gin's us the bian Catholies to meet, orga­rests essentially on their dignity ing themselves as role models to make it clear (so as to avoid Church's undPrstanding of nize, or socialize together. as persons and the rights that to younger homosexuals. The another kind of scandal) that I "homosexuality" (i.e., "homo­The Catechism does clearly flow from it. 'Every form of bad fruit of all this imposture is have never told anyone that the sl'xual orientation"). imply. however, that any group social or cultural discrimination that younger homosexuals may Church approves of gay sexual llomosPxuality is desrribed as of any kind in a Catholic institu­in fundamental personal rights be left with the false impression activity, nor have I given any­"an exclusive or predominant tion should acknowledge the on the grounds of sex, race, that the only possible forms of one the impression that I have sPxual attraction toward per­right and duty of the Church to color, soeial conditions, lan­homosexual affiliation and cul­the authority to dispense th(lm sons of tlw same sex" 1#23571; teach Catholics (and anyone guage, or religion must be tural expression are those prac­from the teaching. Like any an attrartion that is experi­else who will listen) about faith curbed and eradicated as ticed by certain homosexual good Catholic who wants to IHlCPd hy a "not negIigible" and morality. This means that incompatible with God's extremists of promiscuity or understand eertain teachings numlwr of JWople; an attraction a group of gay and lesbian per­design"'l#1935]. morbidity. more adequately, I petition and that is not chosl'n (#235HI. This sons at a Catholic institution (c) It is especially important To diseourage human beings exhort the pope and bishops of d1•scription SPI'IIIS to take must make it elear to its mem­to be sensitive about any from telling the truth, if they so the Church, and all Catholic account of rPI'Pnt psychological bers that the Church teaches minorities who suffer from dis­choose, about their fundamen­universities and theologians, to rPsParrh that has indieatPd that that homosexual acts are not erimination: tal being is prohibited in the continue and deepen their two sPxual oriPntalions exist in permittl'd by the Catholic "The duty of making oneself a Ten Commandments: exploration of the moral and tlw human spndPs: a hetero­Church 1#2357]. In fact, like neighbor to others and actively "The eighth commandment theological status of both SI'Xual oriPnlation, which is the any heterosexual group, it must serving them becomes even forbids misrepresenting the women and homosexual per­sPxual oriPntation of JWrhaps make elear that sexual rela­more urgent when it involves truth in our relations with oth­sons in the Church. 1Hl to 1J5'X, of humans. and a tions outside of marriage are the disadvantaged, in whatever ers. This moral prescription A simple guideline for treat­homosPxual oril'ntation, which not pennitted to anyone at a area this may be. 'As you did it flows from the vocation of the ing openly gay people like me: is tlw sexual oriPntation of the Catholie institution. to one of the least of these my holy people to bear witness to We are persons, not issues. rPmaindPr. In the light of this overview of brethren, you did it to me"' their God who is the truth and Trnat us as pnrsons. 
l:urtlwrmore, Tlw Catechism the teaching of the Chureh, I [1932]. wills the truth" [#2464]. VPry l'IParly distinguishes believe that Professor O'Hara (d) The Catechism points out "Since it violates the virtue of REV. DAVID GARRICK hPLWPPn "homosexual persons" cannot rely on Chmch teaching that recognition is a human truthfulness, a lie does real vio­Department ofCommunication and 
and "homosnxual acts." It is for her authority to prohibit gay .. right: ... _. lenee to another. It affects his Theatre 


Courtesy Warner Records 

W 
atmore can be said? The man is a genius! Once gain, the crazy Polock has outdone himself with an absolutely hilarious album. Yes, kids, "Weird AI" Yankovic is back and he's bigger and funnier than ever. You may remember him as the dorky musician performing such mock-rock hits as "Like a Surgeon" and "Eat It" (for those of you who don't know, these songs are parodies of Madonna's "Like a Virgin" and Michael Jackson's "Beat It"). After his name became of the household variety, he returned with the smashing album Alapalooza which contained such hits as "Achy Breaky Song" and "Livin' in the Fridge." 
Now, in his swan song performance, he brings you bad hair day. Not only is it funny, it is better than any of his previous efforts. This time around, "Weird AI" looks at 1995196 and parodies artists like Coolio, Soul Asylum, U2, TLC and a host of alterna-rockers. bad hair day opens with a gut-busting ren­dition of "Gangsta's Paradise" which is aptly renamed "Amish Paradise." Just to give an example, "There's no time for sin and vice I Living in an Amish paradise I We don't fight, we all play nice I Living in an Amish paradise." If you're not reduced to tears, something is wrong with you. The third song destroys the romantic mood set by Bono in the original U2 hit "Hold Me, Thrill Me, Kiss Me, Kill Me" as Al goes in for his dental check-up. "Cavity Search" is musically dead-on but it's the lyrics that make the song a classic. "My teeth are a fright I Got a huge overbite I Numb me, drill me I Floss me, bill me." 
Right in the middle of bad hair day comes a "Weird AI" masterpiece simply called "The Alternative Polka." There are no alternate lyrics here. Instead, AI takes the 11 original songs and sets them to a fast-tempo polka. Hear such great artists like you've never heard them before! Beck, Stone Temple Pilots, Nine Inch Nails, Alanis Morissette, Green Day, Smashing Pumpkins and more. 
The hits keep coming with "Gump" replacing its counter­part "Lump." Then there's "Syndicated Inc." in which AI takes Soul Asylum's "Misery" and casually discusses his favorite old TV shows. Finally there's "Phony Calls," a stellar cover of TLC's "Waterfalls" complete with a recording of one of Bart Simpson's crank calls to Moe. 
-by Christian Stein 


BA The Boy With The X-Ray Eyes 



T 
he press release for The Boy With The X-Ray Eyes describes it as "post-Bowie, post-Grunge, post-Im­pressionist." Failed-Bowie is more to the point. Jas Mann uses an enigmatic mix of styles and tries very hard to construct a new type of sound, but he does not succeed and most of the songs end up carrying the same themes and sounding boringly alike. 
Of course, there is one moment of utter brilliance-for those of you as yet unaware of the "Spaceman" phenomenon, this has been the number one track in ten European countries and was the fastest selling single in England since the Beatles' "Can't Buy Me Love." A funky-futuristic gloomy introduction gives way to a darkly ominous, confrontational song laden with warnings about the shape of things to come. Classic. 
Unfortunately the rest of the album does not live up to the high standards set by its second track. "Don't Feed The Ani­mals" is an utterly pointless waste of space while "Zodiac Sign" is dull and unimaginative with a nagging riff that has 
(out of five) 

been heard a million times before. "Confused Art" is just con­fused and the pretentious ''I'm Cracking Up I Need A Pill" brings a welcome sigh of relief when it ends. Some better moments can be found on "Caffeine," a more mellow attempt at being profound ("I need a God"), and the edgy and bizarre "Animal Army" ("tigers dancing in my paradise"). 
This album generally suffers both from too much interfer­ence at the editing stage and the tendency for Mann to resort to formula in place of inspiration. The mix on all tracks is very deep and offers little variation while the cliche-ridden lyrics dealing with all the usual themes ("politicians always lie") bring the listener to an eventual state of apathy. 
Overall this work is of average quality and will not be her­alded as a classic despite the huge commercial success. Al­though it has one awfully good track, all the others tend to sound like "Space Oddity." Bowie without the talent. 
-by Julian Elliott 

TORTOISE 
,,TORTOISE 


mrlllons now livrng will never die 
Courtesy Thrill Jockey Records 

Millions Now Living Will Never Die 
O 
n first listen, Tortoise confuses the mind. The brain 
has no reference with which to compare the music 
to. It takes time, as Tortoise has established a new sound in the evolution of all that is punk. The "songs" could be called atmospheric punk, instrumental meandering with a point, experimental neo-classicism that deconstructs aural tradition. Image Tortoise as the Phillip Glass of jazz-rock. Tortoise takes a note and runs with it. They expand a musical idea to its fullest. The sound brings to mind Gastr Del Sol and Flying Saucer Attack, breaking down musical conventions by experimenting with melody, time signature, etc. 
Tortoise's third full album, Millions Now Living Will Never Die, brings with it a slight line-up change and exchange of musical ideas with the Brit supergroup Stereolab (both bands shared Idful Studios recording facilities on their most recent efforts). David Pajo (of Slint fame) joins, replacing Bundy K. Brown (who had worked with David Grubbs in Gastr Del Sol). The whole thing centers around John Warsaw McEntire's gelatinous engineering (solidifying each liquid component into 

(out of five) 
one cohesive form). 

The compositions on Millions Now Living ... range in texture from the twenty-one minute evolutionary process of Djed to the precise bass plucking and incredibly tight rim-shots on "Taut and Tame." Marimba and farsifa organ provide back­ground texture on a majority of the tracks, giving the album a organic feel. In fact, each song brings a bubbling brook, a bil­lowing breeze, and fluttering leaves. "Glass Museum," the most accessible track on the album, begins with a beautifully lazy melody which climaxes into a bongo driven jam. "A Survey" lays a seemingly simplistic bass line over the sounds of a bayou night. Then Tortoise strips the bass line to its fila­ments and rebuilds on each note to create a new groove. 
Millions Now Living ... delivers an incredible package of songs, Tortoise being a band that still upholds the concept of making an album. In fact, they haven't created an album, but a work of six pieces, each building upon the last in a mono­logue that deserves to be listened to in its entirety. 
-by Brent DiCrescenzo. 
I Guided By Voices 


new 
I 
Under The Bushes,

release 
Under The Stars 
A 
nd on the eighth day, God decided to throw a full maturity as a guitarist, adding .A.. ..A....A....A....,J big party. He needed some tunes, so He cre­powerful rhythms to "Don't Stop W W W W ~ ated a band-Guided By Voices. They drank. Now" and "Look At Them." Bassist (out of five) And they rocked. Then they drank some more. And He Greg Demos continues to anchor was pleased. the low end skillfully and drummer Kevin Fennell is on 
Under The Bushes, Under The Stars is GBV's top of things as usual, which bodes well for those eleventh LP, and a dramatic turning point for. those familiar with his work on Propeller. accustomed to their lo-fidelity sound and penchant for For all its differences (longer songs, more hi-fi sound, burying gorgeous melodies and aching harmonies a sense of cohesiveness), there are some things about under layers of 4-track hiss and effects. This time, GBV the album which still smack of traditional GBV. "Office utilized a real studio (Easley) and a couple of guest of H{\!+rts" continues the streak of amazingly visual producers (Kim Deal and ' hf!.ll b~ir so ~il\!Y · · . S?fqr pure sweetness, it's somewhat, but don't think :Poll Wind c ~lt tmi!fNo Sky," with its cho­pany's knack for writingiilo wnm&:n tties dti;' t from me, yeah?" been lost in the shuffle. "Acorns and Orioles" is a simply stunning acoustic 
Actually, instead of citing Bob for his usual MVP role piece, and "Sheetkickers" provides that occasional for song writing and singing, the golden glove on this dark shadow that keeps any GBV album from be­release goes to Tobin Sprout, erstwhile axeman and coming too sugary. occasional singer. His three vocal contributions on this Under The Bushes, Under The Stars also holds pleas­disc represent new peaks for GBV musically, as his ant surprises such as the rolling "Underwater Floyd-esque "To Remake the Young Flyer" instantly Explosions" and "Your Name is Wild," a paean to star­grabs the ears. In addition, "It's Like Soul Man" and ry-eyed children everywhere. The line, "You have cho­"Atom Eyes" are both full of yearning hooks which sen me to read you your lies," reflects Pollard's pater­won't leave the mind for days. nal instinct meshed with his past experience as a 
However, it is pure blasphemy to overlook the fourth-grade teacher. collaborative spirit of this album since the band has For those looking for a follow-up to Bee Thousand or had a long time to forge very unique musical kinships. Alien Lanes, this album is not it. But given the breadth Bob Pollard's playful genius is back in full force and to and depth of the new material, it seems the future of list the highlights of his efforts would be simply to GBV is looking brighter than ever. restate the track sequence. Mitch Mitchell has reached -by Dominic DeVito Courtesy of Matador Records 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 11 
by tim bayne 


Thursday, April 4, 1996 
that magic b 
Tim Bayne talks with Sabor Latino 
T 
hey might havr1 lost thr.ir Nazz crown to the wild boys of Hnvemnd Funk hut Sahor Latino continuns to win huge support with what tht1y call tlwir 'magie hr.at.' Eight of tlwir mnmlwrs will graduate this May. I talkml with thmn about thnir time in tlw band. 
TB: What stands out as thn highlight of !wing in Sabor Latino? 
Tony (;arza: Last year's Nazz was deli­nittlly a highlight. 
Suc1 Heimann: This year's Latin Exprllssions was a highlight too-being on stagn felt like being in a rock video. I also rnrrwrnber when we played the C11ntury Center for the Carnival of the Arts. Wn were a little campus band, in our first year as Sabor Latino, and here we were performing in front of all these profnssional musicians. 
Luis Castillo: We are also very happy with tlw CD (titled Ajiran, which means 'linally'l that will be eoming out in two wm1ks. All the tracks are originals, and Antonio, Alnx, Hamzi and I did a lot of work on it over the summer. We put a lot of nffort into it and it's really a great thing. 
Alc•jnndro Gadala-Maria: The most amazing thing was in our sophomore ycmr. Club 23 wasn't used to the crowd dancing and the tables were still in front of the hand so people used to get up on the tables and dance-it was quite a sight, especially when they fell off. 
Veronica Payan: I've been in Sabor Latino since my freshman year and it has benn a really good outlet. If I didn't have it I would have lost my mind. It has given mn a little of horne and the frinnds I've madr. in the band are friends that I'll have for life. 
Hamzi Bualuan: The most memorable occasion was probably a terrible gig in Fort Wayne. The band went in two cars, but in between the first and the second cars there was a tornado so the second car didn't make it. The half of the band that had arrived had to do the gig and only Tony {Garza] played his own instru­ment. 
Til: Why do you think you are so popu­lar'? 
namzi Bualuan: A lot of people who have never heard this music, when they first hear it, they feel like they have to dance. And when we see people like that, it makes us feel good. 
Tony Garza: I think a lot of people might have a bad impression when they first hear our name, but then they happen to go to Club {23] and they have a good time, jumping around and having fun. 
Sue Hiemann: We have so much fun on stage and that always projects onto the 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Campus favorites Sabor Latino perform at Nazz. Although eight members of the band will graduate in May, the band will continue to share their "magic beat." 
NOCTURNE 
TOP 10 
l. Velocity Girl -Gilded Stars and Zealous Hearts 
2. Uad Religion -The Gray Race 
3. 
Pulp -Different Class 

4. 
Oasis-(What's the Story) Morning Glory? 


5. 
Dog's Eye View -Happy Nowhere 

6. 
Smashing Pumpkins -Melon Collie and the Infinite Sadness 

7. 
Red Hot Chili Peppers-One Hot Minute 

8. 
Love and Rockets -Sweet F.A. 

9. 
Possum Dixon -Star Maps 


10. The Refreshments -Fuzzy Fuzzy Big and Buzzy 
audience. Even if you don't understand the words you can always enjoy the music. We can go from a situation in which people are actually doing the cor­rect dance moves to a mosh pit. 
Luis Castillo: It has that magic beat. 
Ver6nica Payan: I was surprised to lind out how many people like our music. It's not just people in the latin community that appreciate us, but a lot of my other friends come up to me and want to know when we are playing next. 
TB: What are those of you who are leav­ing planning to do? 
All: Don't have a clue! 



TOP 10 

Luis Castillo: I have a job in Orlando so I hope to find some Iatinos down there that I can play music with 
Alejandro Gadala-Maria: For people who love music as much as all of us do there will just be an empty space when we leave. 
Sue Reimann: These last few gigs will be kind of sad because I know that I will never play this sort of music again. 
Becky Bizup: It's been a lot of fun. 
Sabor Latino is losing percussionists, singers and brass players. If interested in keeping the cha-cha, merengue and salsa alive, contact their manager Prof. Ramzi Bualuan at 277 5240. 
1. 
Stone Temple Pilots -Tiny Music 

2. 
Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 


3. Sting -Mercury Falling 
4. Beatles Anthology 

5. 
X-Files-Music From the Key of X 

6. 
Mark Knopfler -Golden Heart 


7. 
Kenny Shepherd -Ledbetter 

8. 
Beautiful Girls Soundtrack 


9. 
Oasis-(What's the Story) Morning Glory? 

10. 
Barenaked Ladies -Born on a Pirate Ship 



MUSIC EDITORIAL MUSIC EDITORIAL 
I
t was just a year ago, not Bvnn. wlwn llootie al)d the Blowfish were the undisputml kings of pop. Tlwir eritical reception was as savage as you may have expected given their immense popularity, and immense it was. I·:teven million copies of Cracked Rear View have been sold, enough 
...1 i:
c( 
for nv•~ryorw in New York City. They've made the late-night talk show cir­cuit. tlwy'v•~ been all over Vll-1 and everyone knows by now that it is the 
Miami Dolphins, not the ones in the water, that make Darius Rucker cry. 
ln tlw wake of this mind-numbing success, an interesting phenomenon 
-
r.t: has crept up that always seems to follow this sort of thing-the backlash. c enTheir omniprnsnnce, combined, no doubt, with the relentless critical bar­rage, has made people "so sick of llootie." This is unfortunate, because in about thr1111 weeks, you're gonna get it again-Fairweather Johnson, llooti•~·s semi-dnverly titled follow-up, will hit the stores on April 23. ­
e n Fairuwalher Johnson will not sell eleven million albums. This statement probably hasn't induced you to choke on your food. In fact, if "the buzz" is as we think it is, you're probably thinking that that's the least profound 
-
Q mprndietion you'vn ever heard in these pages. 
You might well bn right, too. One Notre Dame senior, a Mishawaka resi­dnnt. n~marks, "In the sumnwr of 1994. real early, I heard this CD down in South Carolina and I lovnd it. Listmwd to iL constantly. I had to go all 
11.1 
the way to Bloomington to lind it. Now, I can't bring myself to listen to the -c damn thing." This could be anybody. Photo courtesy ol Atlantic Records 
u a
Now that you have gotten all lathered up about Hootie, step back and Tweak and Tacklebox. Or even The Outside Inn (heard of 'em? Didn't collnct yoursnll'. First, say it loud and say it proud-"! own Cracked Rear think so) for that matter. Word on the street is that Tweak was terrible at View." Don't hide! It is almost a statistical impossibility that no one within Stonehenge last Saturday. We doubt that entirely. Their music is very
U) ­
arm's mach owns it on this campus. Now, ask yourself the question that, 
::a

particularized-either it blows you away or it makes your head hurt. 
douhtlnss, you can't answer, "Why do I hate them now?" Hootie and matns have not ehang•~d a blessed thing. They do not have a new sound. 
llootie is a "fun" band. Many people like their CD-it's doubtful that anyone found it transcendent. It's great driving music, though. But don't 



::» ­
That leads to morn int11resting questions. For instance, why the hell did 
J>

blame llootie for their success-they'd rather be playing golf. And don't 
you huy Cruckecl Hear View? That one's easy. llootie's sound is a big sell­blame the record company-never has a stroke of blind luck been had so tlr. It's aecnssihle, ino!T11nsive, very uncomplicated and easy to hum. This:E great as this. This is a free market society. We heard it, we liked it, we r-
should not surprise you. There are some wildly popular campus bands bought it. WE. the people, created the monster, and now we have to deal (Hev. Funk exdudml) that, on their bnst day, could not tune the guitars of with it. We've already started to kill it. The question is, who will be next'? 
MUSIC EDITORIAL MUSIC DITORIAL 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 4, 1996 
-:W4\:
•NBA 
NBA q<~ 

Marbury announces plans for NBA Grant leads Magic 
By JIM O'CONNELL Marbury had said as far back think I went from high school to Associated Press as November that he would the NBA in one year." .•..•.......••,.,.•,.#;, ..
.• '., 

season-high game 
leave college if he was going to Underclassmen have until NEW YORK be among the top selections in May 12 to announce their Spurs 117. Kings 96 
Stephon Marbury made it official Wednesday night: One year of college basketball was enough to prepare him for the NBA. 
After one season at Georgia Tech, the 19-year-old guard said he had signed with an agent and would make himself available for the NBA draft. 
During a news conference at Junior's, a Brooklyn restaurant famed for its cheesecake, one of which was named for him, Marbury made the announce­ment surrounded by family, friends and his college coach, Bobby Cremins. 
''I've always worked hard for this. I've always watched the NBA growing up. I always watched Michael Jordan and Magic Johnson and I said I could be playing on the court with them. Next year, I will be," Marbury said. "Opportunity is knocking and I have to take advantage of that. I don't want to prolong it. I have signed with an agent," who he identified as Eric Fleischer. 
"I am putting everything be­hind me and focusing only on the NBA." 
the June draft. 

Even though there were no assurances he would be taken among the top five picks, the information Cremins was able to obtain indicated the 6-foot-2 star would go early enough. 
Marbury was selected rookie of the year in the Atlantic Coast Conference after averaging 
18.9 points and 4.5 assists for the Yellow Jackets, who re­turned to the NCAA tournament this season after a two-year absence. They reached the round of 16 before losing to Cincinnati. 
Marbury has three older brothers who played college basketball. His younger broth­er, Zach, just completed his sophomore season at Lincoln, the same high school Stephon led to the New York City Public School championship. 
The news conference started 40 minutes late as Marbury refused to begin without his mother, Mabel, present. She was stuck in traffic in Brooklyn. 
"I think my mother wanted me to stay," he said. "She's always looked at me as her baby and it's hard for her to intention of entering the draft. Marbury joins sophomore Lorenzen Wright of Memphis and juniors Ronnie Henderson of LSU and Darnell Robinson of Arkansas as those who have declared. 
Among the players who may still make the decision and have a decided impact on the draft are Marcus Camby of Massachusetts, Tim Duncan of Wake Forest, Ray Allen of Connecticut and Allen Iverson of Georgetown. 
Players may remove their name from the list before the draft with no penalty or may return to school after being drafted as long as no contract with an agent has been signed. Any team drafting a player who decides to return retains the rights to that player. 
"I fully support Stephon's de­cision," Cremins said. "I told him even before the saeason that he could be an NBA player but first he would have to be­come a good college player and he did that. 
"Stephon was a very impor­tant part of our prorgam and will always be a part of the Georgia Tech family." 



Wright released, goes home 
Former college stand-out recovers from disorder 
Associated Press 
CEDAR GROVE, N.J. 
Former Seton Hall and NBA basketball player Luther Wright has returned home after being institutionalized for a month as a psychiatric patient. 
Wright was released Tuesday from the Essex County Hospital Center, where he was being treated for manic depression. 
The decision was made after Wright spent weekends at home and faithfully took medi­cation, said his agent Sal DiFazio. 
"Hopefully, the medical regimen will work bet­ter for him than some of those that have been tried in the past. God willing, he'll get healthy," DiFazio said. 

The 7 -foot-2 inch Wright, 24, was a star bas­ketball player at Elizabeth High School and played for Seton Hall University. He left after his sophomore year and was chosen in the first round of the 1993 NBA draft by Utah. 
But he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and cut from the team nine months later. Wright has been committed to mental hospitals at least three times. since he turned professional. 
DiFazio said that under the terms of his con­tract settlement with the Jazz, Wright will be paid $153,000 a year for 25 years. 
He said Wright, who now lives with his mother and younger sister in Irvington, has not decided what to do with his life. 
"Basketball is really secondary right now. The more important thing is to cure the body, cure the mind, the let him make the decision as to what he wants to do," DiFazio said. 
NEW YORK 
scored a sea­
points on 13-of­
and the Orlando 
nv~N<:~~rri~ the absence 
O'Neal to win 
straight road , 98,~85 over the New K:t:~,i..;ks on Wednesday 
' O'Neal left the team to be with his family in Newark, N.J., following the death of his grandmother. He will miss Thursday night's game against Boston and may return Sunday against Chicago. . 
Patrick Ewing failed to take advantage of O'Neal's absence, scoring just five points and shooting 1-for-14 from the field. His only basket came on an uncontested fast­break dunk in the first quar­ter. 
Dennis Scott added 22 points for Orlando, making four 3-pointers in the third quarter when the Magic broke the game open. Anfetnee Hardaway, Nick Anderson and Brian Shaw had 11 points each and John Koncak was 0-for-4 from the field and scored four points. 
Orlando won for the 21st time in 25 games. since the All-Star break. The Magic's six-game road winning streak is a franchise record. 
Grant, who finished two points shy of his career-high, made nine jump shots and a jump hook among his 29 points. 
Grant made three straight jumpers and a fast-break layup and Scott scored his team's final 11 points of the period on three 3-pointers and a jumper as the Magic opened a 73-62 lead entering the fourth. 
New York pulled within five with 5:28 left, but Grant hit three consecutive jumpers and a layup in a 12-0 run that wrapped it up. 
SAN ANTONIO 
The San Antonio Spurs wasted no time getting back on the winning track. 
A day after their 17~game winning streak ended in Phoenix, the Spurs beat the Sacramento Kings 117-96 Wednesday night behind Vinny Del Negro's 25 points. 
"This was a scary game," Spurs coach Bob Hill said. "The Kings are a tough team battling for the playoffs. They came out early and came at us bui we matched them and finally it was over." 
The Spurs made 34 of 41 free throws and blocked 13 shots. 
"That tells you a lot about our game," said David Robinson, who had 21 points and four blocks. "We were really active out there. We probably changed another 15 shots." 
Olden Polynice had a sea­son-high 27 points for the Kings, who lead Denver by two games for the eighth and final playoff spot In the Western Conference. Mitch Richmond added 21 points for Sacramento, which had a three-game winning streak snapped. 
San Antonio, 23-5 since the All-Star break, led the entire second half and put the game away with a 13-4 spurt. Chuck Person's 3-pointer with 
10:20 left gave San Antonio a 95-77Iead. 
"I thought we really hung in there in the first half," Kings coach Garry St. Jean said. "But it's easy to see why they are rolling. They have a great group of veterans and a vet· eran level of confidence. They have a lot of people who know what it takes to win." 
San Antonio led only 42-38 when Robinson went to the bench for a rest in the second quarter, but they outscored the Kings 17-13 the rest of the quarter to take a 59-51 halftime lead. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classificds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
$Cruise Ships Hirin~! Students  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  1421 N. Oak Dr.; condo, by owner.  Amy Weiher -Happy Anniversary,  To~ Ten Quotes from  
NOTICES  Needed! $$$+Free ravel kCaribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes.  immaculate, 2 full baths, garage, finished lower level, walk to NO,  sweetheart!! I miss you so much and can't wait to see you again.  anama City '96 •Give me the Busch, I need to swal­ 
easonai/Permanent, No Exper.  Grad. • Football games  ran~e, dishwasher, microwave,  I LOVE YOU!!! Love always, Pat  low.  
SAB regrets the inconvenience caused by a mistake in advertising A Walk in the Clouds  Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398 extC1114 EASTERN EUROPE JOBS ­ 219-277-7003 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219·291-7153  refngerator, w/d, $77,900, 277-8898 Europe $199 OW Caribbean/Mexico $189 AT  ATTN. ALL BALLROOM DANCERS: CLASS IS CAN­CELLED TONIGHT DON'T SHOW  •He may have looked like a little boy, but he was a MAN. I made him a man. •I'm not stealing this, I'm going to  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Excellent benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.N55846  Teach basic English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. call: (206)971-3680 ext. K55841  5 BR; 605 St Peter $925/mo 232-2595 Available in August 3-4 bedroom house -2 full baths relrig., stove, washer and dryer, fur­ & Domestic Destinations Cheap!! IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE! Air-Tech Ltd. 212/219-7000 info@ aerotech.com http://campus.net/aerotech  UP, WE WON'T BE THERE! CJFCJFCJFCJFCJF Stan Kenton. Henry Mancini, Roberta Flack, Branford and Winton Marsalis, and Ed  chug this pitcher. •After awhile, they all have the same name. ·why did you drink it? A boy gave it tome. •Guys... there's no hot water. *I'm 51or 4.  
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING -1 , 814,400 seconds Earn up to $2,000+/month working ILOST & FOUND I on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal &  nished. Attached 2 car garage + off street parking. 234-1336 Nicely Decorated ROOMS FOR RENT Grad., Ftball and Orient.  For Sale: A 1990 Red Two-Door Chevy Cavalier. In good condition. Call Wendy at 273-5818  Shautnessy, they've all been to CJ . Have you????? Colligiate Jazz Festival April12 and 13 at Stepan Center Be there!!  *Men-no they're boys-all of you-except you in the bed. •You all don't even need literature, you take advanced prayer. ·use and abuse. use and abuse,  
Found: In Turtle Creek parking lot: Silver Braclet with little suns on it. Call Brent at 273-6183  full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-971-3550  Wknds. Located 2 miles off-cam­pus, cont. brkfast incl. Many happy customers! 277-8340  For Sale!!! Plane ticket to Boston (5/21) or Providence (5/20) b/o male or female ... call Jonathan  CJFCJFCJFCJFCJF 9CCINEMA  use and abuse and throw them out. Hey team-1 miss you guys! MJ  
Found: Car Key on Quad in front of O'Shag. Call 236-9134 and leave message. I found a religious medallion in LaFortune last Friday night. II it belongs to you, call Rich at 4-3314 found: SUNGLASSES @ CJ'S on Monday (ST. PATTY'S 3/18). Call Jen @ x4805 to claim! Lost: a black sweater at Laf. St. Patty's party, Monday alter spring break. II lound, call Jen x4828 WANTED WANTED: Good people to earn money by becoming reps for EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 299-1999 evenings.  ext. C55844 Want to get cash for your old Sega games? Call Jonathan X 1047 FOR RENT ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE HOME. VERY CLOSE TO NO. IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 272-6194. NEED SUMMER HOUSING? Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at College Park for rent. CALL X2915 for details. ............................. NEED A PLACE THIS SUMMER? CALL US AT COLLEGE PARK CONDOS 273-1738............................  FOR SALE HOT! HOT! HOT! Lose 20 lbs. by summer break! New Metabolism Breakthrough. Results Guaranteed. Free ~It with purchase. $29.95 cost. all1-800-334-1664. FURNITURE FOR SALE! Sola. Dining Set, Waterbed, Papasan, Bookshelves, Dresser. Coffee Table, Bar Stools and much more. Call 273-0039 & ask lor Mel. Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 New Decor EVERYTHING included Close to Notre Dame BEAUTIFUL! NORTH SHORE CLUB 232-2002  x1047 MOVING SALE! Love Seat, Computer Desk, Bunk Beds, and a Pinnacle Club Membership. Call 273-4959. PERSONAL 05/17 03/190o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!!  Guess what kids, those nominations are due TONIGHT BY 11 PM "Just like you ... I like nominating!" -A Hiller DOM·Happiest ol21sts! I'LL take YOU out finals. Love ya sunshine Crazy-1 saw what you did to the cheetah. Abuser. Bear Oh yeah ... we know who he is. Except we call him by his real name: The Ad Manager's Whipping Boy... IT'S NOT TOO LATE!!! Work Catering for Graduation! -FREE Room/Board! -$6.50 per hr. -May 11-19 Housing Deadline: 4/4/96 Sign Up: M-TH 9:30-5:30 Catering Office 631-5449 Lower Level of SOH  Coming April12 and 13 ... The Collegiate Jazz Festival at Stepan Center. It's more fun than something that's really fun! ADOPTION: I'm a very happy little girl named Caitlin who is adopted. I would love a baby sister or brother to play with. My parents are NO grads. Dad's a lawyer and mom plays with me full time. We have a wonderful life, with plenty of hugs, kisses. toys, & love lor a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn collect. (708)355·4970. Confidential &legal. Hey peon, if you think the ad man­ager is bad, just waiL oh just wait!! You haven't even begun to be the whipping boy . congratulations Stephanie Bickel!! you're so cool !!! Hey Belle, Pooch, & MB: Love you guys. Have a Happy Easter!  

Thursday, April 4, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• NFL 

Ravens' players not raving about old facilities 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Am>ciarcd Press 
OWINGS MILLS, Md. 

The moving vans are still ar­riving, the practice fields are nowhere near completion and tlw players can barely avoid bumping into each other in the tiny weight room. 
Clearly, the Baltimore Havens' new training facility will need plenty of work before the players start minicamp on April 26. 
"It's a little primitive right now." owrwr Art Modell said ·Wednesday. "This is better 
than most in the NFL, but far beneath what we had in Ohio." 
The transplanted Cleveland Browns have finally settled into their new training complex out­side of Baltimore, but the dust sure hasn't settled yet. The interior of the building, which housed the Baltimore Colts in the early 1980s, is undergoing massive renovations. 
Outside, the grass field needs new sod and the adjacent field is covered with concrete, still weeks away from being ready for the installation of artificial turf. 
Modell might as well be run­ning an expansion team, be­cause the Ravens have plenty of work to do before they open their first season in Baltimore in September. The team still hasn't decided on team colors and only recently began the search for a place to hold train­ing camp in July and August. 

"In all honesty, we're behind. How fast we catch up, only time will tell," Modell said. 
Modell said the organization is striving to find a place in Maryland to hold its first train­ing camp. lie said he was in­trigued by Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pa., but decided 
against the Washington Redskins' old training camp site. 
"I will not go out of the state of Maryland," Modell said. "It's not politically sound for us to do that." 
Finding a summer home for the Ravens is only one item on Modell's lengthy things-to-do checklist. Baltimore has two first-round picks in the April 21 NFL draft, and there isn't much time to sort out all the possibili­ties. 
"We're getting calls now on our No. 4 (overall) pick. We'd like to combine the best athlete with our biggest need, or trade down," Modell said. 

"We need a running back and we need linebackers," new coach Ted Marchibroda added. 
The players on hand have al­ready started to prepare for the 1996 season. Backup quarter­back Eric Zeier was among sev­eral dozen players who have been working out at the train­ing complex this week. 
"I've been in Baltimore four days and I love it so far," Zeier said. "It's been exciting. haven't done much sightseeing, but I went to an Orioles game yesterday." 
• NHL 
Canadiens shackled by Bruins, booed by own Montreal crowd 
Anocia1ed l'rrss 
MONTHEAL 

Todd Elik's lirst-period goal began the Boston Bruins' 4-1 victory over the Montreal Canadiens on Wednesday night to tightnn the playoff race in the NIIJ.'s Eastnrn Conference. 
Tlw Bruins arn in seventh place with 84 points, one haek of Washington, which beat Buffalo 5-1, and two points shy of tlw Canadiens' total. Boston has orw ganw in hand on Montrnal. 
Boston. 37-30-10. also got goals from Dav1~ Ht~id, Hon Sutter and Shawn McEachern. 
Vincent Damphousse scored for the Canaditms, who have lost thrne conseeu­tivtl games at home for tlw first time this smtson. l>amphousse's second-period goal came two minutes after Sutter had given Boston a 3-0 lead. 
Elik scored on the power play at 5:43 in the first period on a shot that Montreal defenseman Peter Popovic kicked into his own net. Reid put the Bruins up by two with a shorthanded goal at 11:38. 
Bill Hanford made 28 saves for the Bruins while Jocelyn Thibault faced 37 shots. 
Montreal played without defenseman Lyle Odelein, who received a two-game suspension Wednesday for shooting the puck at the Buffalo bench after Monday's 6-4 loss. 
Chris Murray was also suspended for three games for cross-checking the Sabres' Hob Hay in the head. 
The crowd of 21,273 booed during the third period after Boston went up 4-1 on a weak shot by McEachern that Thibault touched but couldn't glove. 
Hawks smother Leafs 
Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Murray Craven scored two goals and the Chicago Blackhawks, holding Toronto to 18 shots, smothered the Maple Leafs 5-2 Wednesday night. 
Chris Chelios, Joe Murphy and Bob Probert, into an empty net with 1:07 remaining, also scored for the Blackhawks, who have a lock on third place in the NtlL's Western Conference. They've been so-so since 32-goal shoot­er Jeremy Roenick sprained an ankle March 17, going 3-3-1, but Roenick should be ready to play again by the time the playoffs begin in 2 1/2 weeks.Kirk Muller and Larry Murphy scored for the Leafs, who relinquished the momentum they had gained by win­ning three straight games on the road. 
Ed Belfour got the goaltending win and Felix Potvin took the loss. Chicago jumped to a 2-0 lead on Chelios's shot out of a corner that rico­

cheted in off the leg of Toronto's Todd Warriner 54 seconds into the game and Joe Murphy's deflection of a Gary Suter shot at 3:17 during a power play. 
Toronto tied it with two power-play goals. Muller deflected in a Todd Gill shot at 4:41 and a Larry Murphy wrist shot sailed past a partially-screened Belfour at 17:37. 
Chicago tightened up in the second period, limiting Toronto .to three shots on Belfour. 
Craven scored at 16:27 on a power play, cruising to the side of the crease to slide a Probert pass under Potvin. He made it 4-2 at 1:05 of the third period. Maneuvering behind defenseman Dimitri Yushkevich, Craven took a Murphy pass and lifted the puck under the crossbar as Potvin dropped to his knees. 
With 13 minutes remaining in the game, Toronto had managed just 10 shots on Belfour, including only four with the teams at even strength. 
Attention All Notre Dame Undergraduates! 
Future Notre Dame Students want to meet you! 
The Admissions Office has recently mailed decision letters to high school seniors. We expect many, many (at least 400 or so) of these admitted students wil1 want to visit campus and learn about the Notre Dame Experience first-hand 
from current Notre Dame students. WE NEED YOUR HELP! 
. 

We are asking that each on-campus student help us by volunteering to host a student overnight for one or 
more of the following dates: 
Wednesday, April 10 _ Friday, April 19 _ Thursday, April 11 _ Saturday, Aprit-20 _ Friday, April 12 _ Sunday, April 21 _ Saturday, April 13 _ Monday, April 22 _ 
Sunday, April 14 _ Tuesday, April 23 _ 
Monday, April 15 _ Wednesday, April 24 _ Tuesday, April 16 _ Thursday, April 25 _ Wednesday, April 17 _ Friday, April 26 _ Thursday, April 18 _ Saturday, April 27 _ 
We ask that you complete this form today and drop it by the Admissions Office (11 3 Main Building). lf you prefer, you can ca11 Jennifer Carrier at 1-7505 and let her know which dates you would be willing to host. She also will take any questions you have about the program. (You can, if you like, drop this form in campus mail, but please do it now because time is running short.) A final option is to reply by e-mail to the following address: 
Jennifer.M.Schlueter.1 @nd.edu 

The students in our next Freshman class are calling today to visit very shortly. Any assistance you can give them wil1 be g.reatly appreciated. On behalf of next year's freshmen, we thank you for your generosity. 
The Admissions Office 
113 Main Building 
631-7505 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, April 4, 1996 
• SAINT MARY'S SOFTBAI..!. 

Belles beat Bethel, drop double header to Dutch 
BY LORI GADDIS Spons Writer 
The Saint Mary's softball team returned to South Bend Tuesday evening disappointed as they lost two to seventh-ranked Hope College with scores of 5-10 and 9-10. They had hoped to spoil the 12-0 drive that the Dutch had. The Belles came close but were unable to match the Dutch's activ­ity at the plate. 
In the first game, the Belles surprised the Dutch with quick bats that Jet them take the lead, 1-0 with sophomore Andrea Arena capitalizing on a passed ball. 
However, Dutch catcher Amy Moeckel drove a blast over the center field fence to score three in the first. Moeckel tal­lied four RBis for the game. Saint Mary's answered with three in the third inning but allowed the Dutch to score six in the sixth. 
"We got them down but were not tena­cious enough to put the game out of reach," stated coach Maggie Killian. "This has been a very emotional week for us since we played two of the top teams in the nation in four very hard fought games." 
The Belles' frustration was evident during the second game as the Dutch took the lead, scoring three in the first, four in the second, and three in the third. The Dutch's plan of attack came at the start of the game when leadoff batter Lori Byington smashed a solo home run. 
Moeckel then homered for the second time in the second. But the Belles held them with tough defense and no-non­sense attitudes, preventing the Dutch from scoring anytime after the third inning. 

The Belles then responded just as Hope did during the first game, scoring 6 runs in the sixth inning. 
Seven of the nine batters in the sixth inning singled and the Dutch committed only two errors, an indication that the Belles' turnaround was by their own action. 
However, Saint Mary's could not get over the hump and fell to the Dutch, 10­
9. Although the Belles lost by one run, they were very pleased at their per­formance, having come back after being down by nine runs. 
"Our intensity has carried us through most of our games," said senior Amy Misch. "After these last two double headers, we know that we can compete with top-ranked teams. 
"If we keep this enthusiasm up and remain united as a team, we can contin­ue to get back on the winning track." 
And that is exactly what they did as they faced cross-town rival Bethel College. This game was rescheduled from March 21 because of cold weather. The Belles racked up eight runs in just six innings to better their record to 8-7 and knock down the Pilots to 14-9. 
Senior pitcher Maria Vogel went the distance, giving up only four hits and striking out six. Vogel's performance, coupled with an outstanding defense gave the Belles the attitude to shut down the Pilots. 

"I wanted to come out and take con­trol of the game right away," Vogel said. "We needed to keep them off of the bases and allow our offense to take the lead." 
Senior Shannon Heise led the Belles as she went 4-4 and senior Michelle Limb smashed a triple for the Belles to com­plete her two hits for four at bats for Saint Mary's. Six different Saint Mary's players had RBis as the Belles were able to hit up and down the order in all six innings they played. This was a signifi­cant difference from the last three games played and was a positive experi­ence for the Belles. 

"I think it's important that we scored in four of the six innings," senior Laura Richter stated. "When we get a team down, we need to keep talking get to them and not let up." 
The Belles feel they now have the con­fidence at the plate needed to be suc­cessful in the future. 
respectively. Another rookie, 
Marisa Velasco, holds the no. 4 spot, with junior Erin Gowen continued from page 20 and sophomore Molly Gavin rounding out the list. 
Irish 
The Irish have been struggling "Every spot will be a tight to set a consistent line-up, but match," Louderback added. have been bothered by injuries. "It's just going to come down to 
No. 3 singles and no. 1 doubles the individual match-ups." 
player Wendy Crabtree and no. On the doubles scene, the 5 singles and no. 2 doubles Irish have had trouble main­player Erin Gowen are two of taining the consistency needed the members of the Irish team to keep the Irish near the top of plagued by injury. the ranks. Much of the prob­
"The line-up will depend on lem comes from the high caliber some injuries," Louderback competition the Irish have re­
said. "Erin Gowen is fighting peatedly faced. Crabtree and some knee problems and Lord pair up for the pole posi­
Wendy's [Crabtree) knee is still tion on the Irish roster, while irritating her." Hall and Gowen play at no. 2. No. 3 doubles player, sopho­Olson and Velasco complete the 
more Kelley Olson, could possi­team at no. 3. bly be called upon to fill a role "Our no. 1 doubles team ha-. in the singles line-up. lost it's last three matches, bu;.
Leading the Irish is freshman they have played very goodJennifer Hall at no. 1 singles teams," Louderback said of the followed by senior Holyn Lord 
Crabtree/Lord combination. 
and Crabtree at no. 2 and 3, "They'll face another good 




JAZZMAN's 
BAR&GRILL 
525 N. Hill Street • :233-8505 
presents: 
A SPECIAL FUNKY THURSDAY COLLEGE NIGHT 
•Open to all college students with college IDs 
•Featuring Moe & Brendon 
•Plus DJs Lady Melo-D and Tony-Tony playing your favorite 
Booty Call, Tootsie Roll, Hip-Hop & Old School disco music between band breaks 
• Doors open 9:30 PM 
•Upper 
level front entry 18 and over with college IDs (soft drinks only on upper level) 

•Lower 
level rear entry restricted to 21 and over with proper IDs (cash bar) 


•$3 
admission with student IDs • $5 without student lD 

• 
No one under 21 will be admitted after midnight 

• 
Save $2.00 with this ad before 11 :00 pm 



• 
Lower level only • jazzman's provides uniform security officers both inside & outside with escort upon request • Free admission & treat if it's your birthday. 



team this weekend, but it is just a matter of getting them a win." 
Velasco corroborated the need for good doubles down in Austin. 
"The doubles matches will be key for us down at Texas, es­pecially since we've been strug­gling lately," the freshman stat­ed. 
Dverall, a win for the Irish will give them a chance to move up in the rankings and possibly crack the top five. 


There will be two Blue & Gold Spring Football Scrimmages at Krause Stadium this year-at 1:30 p.m. on April 20 and 27. 
ND I SMC STUDENTS WILL BE ADMITTED FREE TO THE APRIL 20 BLUE & GOLD FOOTBALL GAME, BUT MUST PICK UP A TICKET IN ADVANCE BETWEEN 10 a.m. and 5 p.m., TUES., APRIL 9 -THURS., APRIL 11 AT THE JOYCE CENTER'S GATE 10 TICKET WINDOW. 
One (1) ticket will be issued per ID with alimit of two (2) IDs per student. 
For the April 27 Blue &Gold Game, students will be required to pay $6 in advance, $8 day of game, with the advance sale beginning at 8:30 a.m. on April15. 
For more information, call the Notre Dame Ticket Office at 631-7356. 
Thursday, April 4, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
·-~---~---=--~__::__:____:__:_______c:__::_-==-----c=--==--:~=--=-=~'---'--=-------------___:__::_­



~~--~----~ 
-
leaping catch that ended the inning and saved a run.
Baseball 
However, it was third base­
man J .J. Brock who made the
continued from page 20 
play of the day for Notre Dame. With one out in the seventhground ball on the game's first inning, a man on third, Broomplay. For the rest of the way, ripped a roller to Brock at thirdBrooks was a magnet eating up who immediately rifled the ballground balls with ease. 
to catcher Jeff Wagner. The
His partner, Paul Turco was big man blocked the plate andequally as stellar. In the third inning, Turco was responsible 
tagged Josh Zink for the out. "We had the infield in," saidfor all three outs, including a 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
Catcher Bob Lisanti came in to provide a late spark and an RBI, knocking Scott Sollmann in for a 2-0 Irish lead. 
NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP 
TEE TilVIES! 
RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE 
BEGINNING MONDAY, APRIL J FOR SATURDAY, APRIL 6 AND BEYOND SEVEN DAYS A WEEK 631-6425 

GOOD FRIDAY APRIL 5, 1996 IN OBSERVANCE OF GOOD FRIDAY, TilE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE AND PRO SHOP WILL BE CLOSED UNTIL 3:00PM. 

.1:00PM Sl/OTGUN ADVANCE RESERVATIONS AVAILABLE ________ _ CALL 631-64..:.:1:..:.5_____ 


Follow the Fighting Irish to 








Ireland 

October 25 -November 3 October 30 ·November 3 
Join us for eight days in Ireland If you only have a weekend, you can 
(two weekends and a week), still enjoy the beauty of Ireland 
featurin~ Irish entcnainment, \~22..-})_ and Notre Dame football­
s1ghtseemg, great Jazz and. ::,.;..{~~-•· ~' and of course plenty of 
Notre Dame football. O:!J ~~ ..· B. Insh entenamment. 0 ~/ ~ Only u ·'' ?::. Only 
$2150 t~Tcago* • ~ • • $1450 t~Tcago* 
01hcr ucranun: ,;,;,, al'" availahic. MATTERHORN TRAVEL------­
For complete brochure, phone 1-800-638-9150 or (410) 224-2230. 

Brock. "We knew that because first Irish run. Bob Lisanti and of the close game, they would Brock knocked in three more try to send the runner. runs, and Bret Poppleton drove Fortunately the ball came to me in the final run on an infield and I just threw it home." bouncer that shortstop Steve 
Entering the eighth inning, Dunlop fumbled. While Dunlop the Irish had three hits on the lay twisting in the grass in day. The inning began in the agony at his error, Brock was usual lackluster fashion, as on his way home from second Brooks flew out to right. But base to close out the scoring. Rowan Richards got the crowd When the dust cleared on the going with a line drive up the 60 degree day, the Irish had middle. tallied five runs and the 
Panthers had committed three 
With Richards and Sollmann errors. on base, up stalked Mike Mainieri cited Amrhein's hit Amrhein to the plate to face a as a key moment. "This is the new pitcher, Eastern's fourth of great thing about baseball and the game. Earlier that day, sports. Mike pops out in the Amrhein had a chance to knock first inning with the chance to in Richards from third but drive in a run. In the eighth, he popped out instead. Now here had the chance to win the ball­he was again, with the chance game and he basically did." to break the game wide open. " It's just a classic example 
Amrhein cracked a grounder that you can't dwell on past between second and third and failures. You've got to bounce around came Richards for the back and Mike did that." 
fEARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0aHer your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 if you donate alone (first visit) +$ 500 
if you show college I.D. (first visit) 
+$1 000 per person if you recruit sumeone and they donate 
$30°0 TOTAL! 
Help Us Save Lives
STRONG • FAST • CLEAN 
WOLFF BEDS 

Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D.
~mCA~~m'& TANi] 
COME TO: HOURS: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-f: 9-6
5804 Grape Rd. 
Indian Ridge Plaza 

515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 277-7946 
SoUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
HOURS: Monday-Thursday 7:00a.m. to I 0:00 p.m. • Friday 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. • Saturday 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. • Sunday 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
lan ••jM'l!lPY Is•h for $2'' 
20% OFF Any Tanning 
Accelerator. 
NOTRE DAME .2.77-1166 Walftine-Distance from N.D. 
Must be 1 R or older. One per customer. 


Featuring: Hickory Smoked Ribs Hickory Smoked Chicken Fried Chicken  :?~Shadu<._, J!l St. Rd. 23 at Bittersweet ~ Bl Granger, Indiana  
Tender Seafood  I~,?::S  ·  .i 11:::::::::=~  
Grilled Steaks Deliciously Thick Pizza  i 0 ~~(Be."tt·-·-··..:.C  277-3143  

FAMILY STYLE SPECIAL 
All you can eat Ribs and Chicken Dinner $7.49 for groups of 10 or more PERFECT FOR SECTION DINNERS! 
LOCATED ON STATE RD. 23 AND BITTERSWEET CLOSED MONDAY 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, Apri14, 1996 
~~----------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------~~~----­

COLLEGE BASEBALL 
AP Poll Records through March 31: 
Record  
1. Cal State Fullerton  30-2  
2. Texas Tech  35-4  
3. Florida  26-7  
4. Louisiana State  26-5  
5. Southern California  24-8  
6. Wichita St.  16-2  
7. Florida State  28-4  
8. CS Northridge  31-6  
9. Clemson  24-6  
10.UCLA  19-11  
11. Arkansas  27-6  
12. Alabama  23-10  
13. Stanford  20-12  
14. Miami  23-5  
15. South Florida  26-7  
16. Arizona State  22-13  
1~Goo~~Th~  1~9  
18. Oklahoma State  21-7  
19. North Carolina St.  25-7  
20. Texas  24-13  
21. Tennessee  15-10  
22. Pepperdine  25-14  
23. Stetson  26-10  
24.Duke  26-5  
25. UC Santa Barbara  20-11  


Thursday, April 4, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• OLYMPICS 
Stringent standards set for post-Atlanta games 
By lARRY SIDDONS liable to random, out-of-compe­As.ocia1ed Press tition urinalysis without advance notice. NEW YOHK It would complement drug The United States will have tests already run by the indi­
to wait until after this sum­vidual sports and the USOC, mer's Olympies before it has most of them during scheduled the toughest anti-doping pro­events. Such testing is consid­gram in intnrnational sports. ered ineffective because ath­
!\ $2.H million package, man­letes know when to expectdating unannounced, out-of­screening and can stop or mask eom(Hltition drug tests for all drug usc to beat the testers. Olympic sports, is expected to The unannounced tests first be adopttld by the U.S. Olympic were proposed by the USOC 
Committee next week. last October, but were met with But, eiting time pressure, offi­reluctance by officials of the dals also will propose that key individual sports, who felt the provisions of the plan, includ­proposal placed too much of a ing the no-notice testing, be financial and administrative postponed until after the burden on them. 
Sumnwr (;ames in Atlanta. The task force proposal, how­"We're going to drug test our ever, puts the USOC in charge,Olympie athiP!Bs, as we have while allowing each sport im­
always done," said Baaron portant input on identifyingPittenger, eo-chairman of t,lw world-elass athletes to test and USOC's anti-doping task foree. what drugs to test for. Each 
"But it is unlikely that no-ad­sport is required to eomply or vanl~n-notice testing will be 
faee diseiplinary action. impltmwntnd by Atlanta." "It's a USOC program,"The task fon~n said that Pittenger said. "But it is flexi­
dfllaying full implementation of ble and it provides the (sports) the new program would save with what they wanted. I think $:wo,ooo it would havn cost to this is a program that people 
rn-tnst sonw HOO athletes prior will be comfortable with and to thtl (;anws. 
serves the purpose." 

But tlw delay was not an at­The no-notice tests will not LPmpt to cut eosts, Pittenger search for all drugs on the said."lt's a matltlr of time and banned lists of eaeh sport,
putting in place a whole new which generally follow the pat­snt of procedures," he said. 
tern set by the International Tlw packag1l would make 
Olympie Committee and stretch athlflles in all 4 I Olympic and to hundreds of substanees from Pan /\nwrican Garnes sports steroids to stimulants. 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Netters making way around Midwest 
By JOEY CAVATO Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis team has officially reached their stretch run. With a 10-7 mark and a top twenty ranking the Irish are through the heart of their sehedule and have re­turned to regional action. 
After overcoming the Hoosiers of Indiana last Sunday the squad will be on the road again as they will match up against regional foes Northwestern and Ball State 
The Wildcats figure to pro­vide a challenge as they are corning ofT a win over the four­teenth ranked Wolverines of Michigan. Moreover, the Northwestern netters will prob­ably be one of five midwestern teams to make the Regional Tournament. 
After taking on the Wildcats on Saturday, the Irish will have Easter Sunday off and will be right back in action on Monday when they come baek into Indiana to battle the team from Ball State University. 
The Irish competition will only ease up slightly as the Irish won a hard fought 4-3 vic­tory with the Cardinals last sea­son. 
Key for victory in these key regional dual matches will be doubles play, particularly im­provement at the top doubles spot. 
After a stellar year last year the senior duo of Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun has struggled a bit as of late, but the Nos. 2 and 3 teams of Jakub Pietrowski and Brian Patterson, and John 
J. O'Brien and Hyan Simrne have picked up the slack. 
On the singles side the Irish are looking for more consis­tency from top to bottom. The top two slots of Sprouse and Pietrowski were hot early but now things have changed a bit. 
"Early in the season Mike and Jakub were carrying the load," head coaeh Bobby Bayliss ex­plained. "But, as of late Hyan and Brian have been on the upswing, while John J. O'Brien has been solid all year." 
Bayliss also expressed con­cern with the distractions off the court at this time of year. 
"With a traveling schedule and a tough time of the year academically you have to keep a good sense of perspective and you need to stay focused." Bayliss mentioned. "If we can do those things we should be okay." 
Bayliss also explained how the Irish strong schedule, whieh probably has something to do with their record being just three games over .500, might help them later. 
"If you look at our schedule, we haven't lost to anybody that wasn't a really good team. think that tough schedule will help us." 
With just four regional matches remaining the tennis squad is in pretty good shape in making the NCAA Regionals. They are currently 7-0 and five teams form Big Ten country will probably make the eut. 
Illinois, Minnesota, Miami of Ohio, Miehigan and Northwestern are the teams who have a good chance to make it along with the Irish. Earlier this season the Irish defeated Illinois, Minnesota and Miami of Ohio, so they feel that they are deserving of a spot. 
However. the Irish still have to face some of the stiffest eompetition in the region in Northwestern this Saturday and Michigan on the sixteenth of this month. 
Throughout all of these matches, in which all but one are on the road, Bayliss is look­ing for his squad to keep their competitive edge. Coach Bayliss explained that "down the stretch and everybody has got to get some rest and still play with a lot of enthusiasm." 
baseman Kara McMahon, and them," said Miller. "The pro­


Miller 
center fielder Jennifer duction we've had in the last Giampaolo eombined for eight couple weeks has taken a lot of
continued from page 20 
hits and four RBI in the sweep pressure off of the pitchers. timely hitting. Designated hit­of Butler. That will be critical as we ap­ter Katie Marten, middle in­"We've really gotten the proach the last month of the fielder Meghan Murray, third clutch hits when we've needed season." 

-
--~----------------· -­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS •LACROSSE 

Cade continues to lead Irish 
By TODD FITZPATRICK Spans Writer 
When any team loses top starters to graduation, some of the younger players have to step up and play key roles. But until that happens, the team's overall success will be ques­tioned. There is usually a tran­sition period that takes place before a team can win consis­tently. 
The Irish lacrosse team, how­ever, is a little too impatient to wait for success. Not only are the Irish on a five-game win­
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL -RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays April 9, 16, 23, and 30, from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups necessary. 
BLUE/GOLD FOOTBALL GAME STUDENT TICKETS ­There will be two Blue/Gold Games at Kruase Stadium 
this year-at 1:30 p.m. on April 20 and 27. Students will be admitted free to the April 20 Blue/Gold Game, but must pick up a ticket in ad­vance between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m., April 9-11, at the Joyce Center's Gate 10 ticket win­dow. One (1) ticket will be issued per ID with a limit of two (2) IDs per student. A student may also purchase a ticket for $8 the day of the game. For the April 27 Blue/Gold Game, students will be required to pay $6 in advance, $8 day of game, with the advance sale begin­ning at 8:30a.m. on April15. 
Want a Job? Go where the gold is! 
HOTJOB MARKETS USA 
Free info. (800) 722-0845 
ning streak, but all of those vic­tories have been on the road. 
Notre Dame is in the midst of its most difficult stretch of the season. This weekend, they head east to face No. 12 Harvard and No. 20 Dartmouth. Following their visit to the Ivy League, the Irish will play nationally ranked North Carolina and Massachusetts in the next two weeks. 
Much of the success No. 11 Notre Dame has experienced can be attributed to the young trio of sophomore goa.lie Alex Cade, sophomore midfielder Jimmy Keenan, and freshman attacker Chris Dusseau . 
Cade has been tremendous in the nets for the Irish this sea­son. He leads the nation with a 
5.81 goals against average. He has started all six games while allowing just 32 games. Despite his personal talent, Cade attributes most of his suc­cess to his teammates on de­fense. 
''I'd like to give a lot of the credit to the defense playing in front of me, Cade said. Our defense, in my opinion, is better 
ON CAMPUS Graduation Weekend SPECIAL May 16-19, 1996 COME EARLY; STAY LATE; SAME PRICE! 
Sacred Heart Parish Cente'r has room available for your parents. Weekend cost is $40.00 per parent, whether you stay two, three, or four nights. Rooms are available Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
For Reservations, call219-631-7512 


than it was last year,". 
Keenan and Dusseau have lit up the scoreboard all season to lead the Irish with 16 and 14 points, respectively. While Keenan has tallied more assists than goals, nearly all of Dusseau's points have come from his team-leading 13 goals. Dusseau's best games were consecutive four-goal efforts against Air Force and Butler. 
Harvard has a very talented offense of its own. The Crimson offense has propelled its team to an undefeated record. Only one other ranked team (Bucknell) enters this weekend without any losses. 
"Coach [Kevin Corrigan] indi­cated that Harvard will be the toughest offensive team we've faced and maybe the toughest we will face all season," Cade stated. 
The Irish won last year's con­test against Harvard by a 15-10 score. 
When Notre Dame faces Dartmouth, it will be their first ever meeting. The Big Green heads into this weekend with a 
Sophomore Alex Cade's staunch defensive front has earned him the
2-1 record. 
nation's top spot as goalkeeper thus far this season. 
DART 

CORRECTIONS AND ADDITIONS TO DART BOOK COURSES ADDED 
CHEG 445T Ill #4.t81 -Chemical Reaction Eng. Tutorial; 0 cr. hrs.; W 01:55-02:45 
CHEG 445T 02 #4482 -Chemical Real·tion Eng. Tutorial; 0 cr. hrs.; W 03:00-03:50 
CHEG 6988 OJ #4483 Pallem Formation & Nonlinear Dynamics; 3 cr. hrs.; MW 0 I :30-02:45 
ENOL 410 01 #4489 British Literary Traditions I; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 05:00-06: 15; Majors only 
ENOL 410 02 #4490 • British Literary Traditions I; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 02:00-03: 15; Majors only 
ENOL 411 01 #4491 -British Literary Traditions II; 3 cr. hrs.; T H II :00-12: 15; Majors only 
ENOL 411 02 #4492 -British Literary Traditions ll; 3 cr. hr~.: T H 09:30-10:45; Majors only 
ENOL 412 Ill #4493 • American Literary Traditions; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 12:40-01:40; Majors only 
ENOL 412 02 #4494 -American Literary Traditions; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 03:30-04:45; M<.tjors only 
ENOL 424Z 01 #4496 -Sr. Seminar: Heroic Lovers; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 09:30-10:45; Permi~.,ion Reqmred 
ENOL 5848 01 #4484 -The Harlem Renaissance; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 03:30-04:45; Graduate students only; Cross-listed "ith Engi487Z-OI 
GOVT 305 01 #4497 American Congress; 3 cr. hrs.; MWF 01 :55-02:45; GOYT 140 or 240; cross-listed with HESB 305-01 
GOVT 499R 02 #4485 -Senior Honors Thesis; 3 cr. hrs.; Pennission Required 
GOVT 499R 0.1 #4498 -Semor Honors Thesis; 3 cr. hrs.; Permission Required HESB 305 01 #4499 -American Congress; 3cr. hrs.; MWF 0 I :55-02:45; cross-listed with GOVT 305-0 I MUS 1800 01 #4500 -Collegium Musicum; I cr. hr.; M 07:00-08:(XJ; P.M. Class PHIL 244 01 #4486 -Philosophy of Law; 3 cr. hrs.; T H 12:30-01:45 • PHIL 244 02 #4487 -Philosophy of Law; 3 cr. hr>.; T H 02:00-03: 15 PSY 475 OJ #4495 -P~ycholinguistics; J cr. hrs.; T H 12:30-01:45: cross-listed \\<ith PSY 520-1 PSY 488C 01 #44K8 -Living Healthy Lives: Mentoring; 3 cr. hr~.; F 02:45-05:00; Pem1is:-.ion Required; See Dr. Webb or Dr. Howard to ohtam permis!'linn 
CHANGES ACCT 458 OJ #4477 -Change days/time to: TH 11:00-12:15 ACCT 477 02 #4229 -Change time to: MWF 12:50-01:40 AERO 440 01 #1013 -Change time to: MWF 10:40·11:30 AERO 444 01 #1012 · Changetimeto: MWF09:35-10:25 ARST 285S 0 I #3122 -Restriction should read: Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all Freshmen. Sll[lhnmores and Junior!!. ARST 285S 02 #3124 -Restriction should read: Majors only through 3rd period; then open tu all Fre"hmen. Sophomores and Jumors. ARST 285S 03 #3 126 -Restriction should read: Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all Fre!!hmen. Sophomore~ and Juniors. ARST 291S OJ #1463 • Add restriction: ARHI. ARST. DESN majors only through 3rd period: then open to all. CAPP 216 01 #2827 -Change time to: MWF 12:50·01:40 CE 452 01 #4141 • Change days/time to: MWF 03:00-03:50 CHEG 255 0 I # 1582 • Change time to: MWF I 0:40-11 :30 CHEM 337 OJ #2617 • Change time to: MWF 11:45-12:35 CHEM 631 OJ #1635 • Changetimeto: MWF08:.10·09:20 ENOL 109A 07 #2713 • Change days/time to: T H 03:30-04:45 ENOL 200 01 #4302 -Add restriction: Sophomores and Juniors only ENOL 200 02 #4303 -Add restriction: Sophomore!! and Juniors only HIST 358 OJ #3925 -Add restriction: Majors only through 3rd period; then open to all LLRO 520 01 #4074 • Add restriction: Graduate students only MBA 610 01 #4416 -Change title to read: "Management of Technology" MI 579 0 I #3994 -Add restriction: Gruduate !!IUdents only MUS 243 OJ #2083 -Change time to: T H 03:30-04:45 MUS 335 OJ #4363 · Change time w: MWF 08:30-09:20 PLS 281 01 #2278-Changetimeto: TH03:15·04:55 PLS 281 02 #2279 -Change time to: M W 03:15-04:55 PLS 281 03 #2280 -Change time to: M W 0 I :05-02,:45 PLS 281 04 #2281 -Change time to: T H 0 I :05-02o45 PLS 347 01 #2282 · Change time to: MW 09:20-10:35 PLS 347 02 #2283 -Change time to: MW 11:45-01:00 PLS 381 0 I #2284 · Change time to: T H 0 I :05-02:45 PLS 381 02 #2286 -Change time to: M WOI:05-02:45 PLS 381 03 #2285 -Change time to: T H 03:15-04:55 PLS 381 04 #2775 -Change time to: M W03:15-04:55 PLS 445 02 #1362 · Changetimetu: MWOR:00-09:15 PLS 481 01 #1361 -Changetimeto: THOI:05-02:45 PLS 481 02 # 1360 • Change time to: M W 0 I :05-0~:45 PLS 481 03 # 1.159 · Change time to: M W 03: 15·04:55 PLS 481 04 #4044 · Changetimeto: TH03:15-ll4:55 ROFR 583 0 I #4388 -Ac.Jd restriction: Graduate students only ROIT 433 OJ #4064 • Change re>tricuon to read: MLIT 300 or 400 or ROIT 300 or ROIT 400 level cour'f reyuired ROSP 412 01 #4392 Add restriction: Any 300 or 400 level Spanish course SOC I 02 0 I #2468 -Adc.J re.,!Tiction: Freshmen only SOC 599 0 l # 1748 · Add restriction: Graduate student!~ only SOC 600 01 #2418 · Add re~trictiun: Graduate students only THEO 585 OJ #2493 • Changedays/timeto: Tuesdays09:30-10:45 COURSES CANCELLED ARHI 452 01 #4289 ARHI 552 01 #4288 ECON 490 01 #4~98 ENOL 310 01 #1788 ENOL 310 02 #1209 
ENOL 311 01 #1789 ENOL 311 02 #1208 ENOL 312 OJ #1790 ENOL 312 02 #1207 HIST 537 OJ #3654 THEO 285 01 #4111 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
•


I/Per(e~l ID ~rowd./1 
-
April go 
1:30 p.m. 
Krause Stadium 
FREE ADMISSION* 
for all 

ND/SMC Students 
*must pick up ticket in advance. April9,10& 11,1996 Joyce Center • Gate 1 0 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 1ticket 10-2 IDs student 
April g7 
1:30 p.m. 
Krause Stadium 
Student Tickets 
only$6 
in advance ($8 ·at the game) 
Advance sale begins April 15, 1996 Joyce Center • Gate 1 0 8:30a.m. 


Thursday, April 4, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 


MISTER BOFFO 
DII.BERT 

YOU NEEO EXPERIENCE IN 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Terminate 31 Lieutenant of 
1 Conventions Fidel, once
sTake, as testimony 
32 Painter Gerard --Barch

10 Doctrines 14 Phrase of 
33Some clarification 
moisturizers 15 "Memories 37 Jamboree org. -"(Billy 40 "Uialume" Crystal film) penner 18 Set of races 
41 Vermont 17 Astronomical 
Senator Patrick 

Willy Ley book 43 Home-front plot 20 Museum pieces ofW.W.II 
21 Drive insert 48Some22 Flinch microwaves 
23 Sprite, to 50 Sock style Spenser 51 Blanches
28 Item removed at the pump 52 "Even-­
27 Napoleon 
speak ..." decreed its 54 Satyajit Ray construction hero 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
3" 
c5
.. 
~ 
~ " 
.. 
~ 
58 Considerations in yachting 80 Malta moofah 81 Carpenter's aid 82 Actress MacDowell 83 lndentureship unit MHubbub 85 Shocked reactions 
DOWN 
1 Foliate mineral 2 Unscented 
3 Business traveler's booking 
4 Bar member's abbr. 5 Good name for a cook? 8 L'eggs employee 7 Lizards, old-style 8 Rampaging 

28 Less 43 Irish statesman 49 1842 story "The 9 Ring official 
demonstrative EamonDe--Mystery of-­10 Bratty 29 Exultant cry 44 "Well, --1" Rogel'' 11 Spirited (huffy phrase) 52 Stepped down 
34--out 

gathering 45 Durango abode 53 "Yes, indeed," 
(withdraws)

12 Birthplace of 48 Tedious affair, in Madrid 
35 Overly

Mohammed slangily 55 Benefits
38 Molten waste 

13 Precipitous 47 Baseball's 57 E.R. hookups
371978 

Luzinski 58 Jokester
18 Touch up 
Springsteen 

48 Administer 59--nutshell
19 Give and take song 
24 Bradley and 38 Pre-shearingO'Neill 

bath Get answers to any three· clues 
39 Author Rand 

by touch-tone phone: 1·900-420·
28 Fads 42 Suffix with eat 

5656 (75¢ each minute).
27 Shtick or boot 
DAVE KELLETT 
JOE MARTIN 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I'LL BRTI'iG 501"\E CRONIES WI'TH ME .
"' 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Make a financial plan for your future. Devise an annual budget and stick to it. Creativity. travel and new insights mark the months ahead. Romance moves onto the fast track in November. If single, do every­thing you can to preserve a long-dis­tance relationship. A second home could prove 10 be a wise investment. Be appreciative if an older person offers to help your career. The right social connections are more helpful than you like 10 admit. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actor Robert Downey Jr., actress Nancy McKeon, poet Maya Angelou, dance king Anhur Murray. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A busy schedule will keep you on your toes. Refuse to be stampeded into speeding up a project that should not be hurried. A quiet investigation reveals someone has ulterior motives. 
TAURUS (April 20-,May 20): A relationship thai has been coasting· could hit a roadblock. Keeping your schedule uncluttered will give you more time to think. New benefits come from longtime investments. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You gain the upper hand in romance. A confrontation can be averted if you seek expert advice before making a major move. Con­centrate on cultivating new friends. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
Greater tact will prevent petty dis­
putes with co-workers. Time spent 
working on solo projects is an excel­
lent investment. You need to get a 
clearer picture of your financial situ­
ation before making plans for a 
vacation. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your 
feelings are easily aroused now. 
However, speaking sharply to some­
one could disrupt your whole day. 
• OF INTEREST 

Amy Lind from the Kellogg Institute will hold a lecture on "Engendering Social Policies and Structural Adjustment in Ecuador and Bolivia" on April 9 at 
12:30 p.m. in Rm. C-103 of the llesburgh Center for International Studies. Pranab Bardhan will be giving a lecture today on ''The Nature of Institutional Impediments to Economic Development" at 12:30 p.m. in Rm. C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The School of Architecture is sponsoring a lecture on Wednesday, AprillO by Fredrick Turner, Founders Professor of the School of Arts and Humanities, University of Texas. It will be held at 4p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North. South Stuffed Shells Cajun Baked Cod Quiche Lorraine Sweet and Sour Pork Cajun Chicken Sandwich Chinese Noodles 
SaintM~y's

Mexican Cheese Pizza Turkey Broccoli Mornay Country Fried Steak 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
Work behind the scenes whenever possible. This is nol the lime 10 sign legal papers. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your determination comes to the fore. Recycling an old project saves both time and money. Bypass the social scene in favor of work endeavors. You need 10 consult your mate before accepting any invita­tions. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Old and trusted friends arc a more reli­able source of information than someone you mel recently. Finan­cial gains headed your way are the result of past efforts. Protect your reputation. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A can-do allitude spurs productivity. You will feel much bener when you have done a good day's work. A run of good luck continues. Use it 10 your advantage. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Personal initiative and an imag­inative approach help you win sup­pori for your innovative ideas. Good publicity helps, too. Ask for favors from people whose support you need. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 

19): If you cannot make everyone 
happy, steer a middle course. 
Although there is little incentive to 
postpone activities you enjoy, 
neglecting your domestic duties 
would be a mistake. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): 

Someone's inexperience may be 
revealed today. Take advantage of 
this person's naivete and you will 
have regrets later on. A business 
compromise has a lot to offer you. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): An 

associate's lively imagination may 
provide you with useful new ideas. 
Love and courtship are in the spot­
light. Business negotiations proceed 
without a hitch. 

Some£~ Loves You at 
For a wonderful Easter, follow these handy reminders from SUB: 1 • always eat the ears first, 
2. 
tell the Man Upstairs thanks, 


3. 
and for I:Jeter Rabbit's sake, DON'T forget where you hide those eggs! 




... 
.. 


-
... 

SPORTS 
page 20 


Heating it up again 
No. 8 Irish head south to take on defending national champ Texas 
By BETSY BAKER SportS Writer 
The weather finally improved for the Notre Dame women's tennis team. Too bad they had already left for their match against fifth-ranked Texas today. 
The Irish, who 
.--------, dropped from sixth to eighth in the polls this week after last week­end's loss to Georgia, left yesterday in order get a day of practice outdoors in preparation for the match. 
"Weather has been a Louderback big factor for us," Irish head coach Jay Louderback said. "We have been trying to get outside to practice but haven't gotten much cooperation." 
"The more we can practice outside, the 

• 

.. 
ByT. RYAN KENNEDY Sports Writer 
For the second straight day, the Notre Dame baseball team rode a late-inning surge to keep its winning streak intact.

... 
This time, the Irish pounded out five hits and five runs in an eighth-inning blitzkrieg of the Eastern Illinois Panthers. Rich Sauget came on in the ninth to preserve the 5-0 blanking. Mike Balicki got the win, but starter Craig Allen was a workhorse, going six in­nings and giving up only five hits. 
The Irish (20-7) have now won eight in a row and 16 of their last 18 games. Their 


-
r 
f 
better prepared we will be." 
The Irish head into the match against the defending National Champion Longhorns with a 16-3 record after rebounding from the loss to the Bulldogs to beat No. 20 Clemson last Saturday. The win against the Tigers gave the Irish some much-needed momentum in order to go into today's match with confidence. 
"The important thing about last week­end was how we bounced back after the loss and beat Clemson," Louderback com­mented. "Our schedule is so tough, we can expect to take some losses. It all depends on how well we bounce back." 
However, Austin is not the ideal place to gauge a team's resilience. Coming off the championship year, the Longhorns nearly mirror the Irish with a 15-3 record, a per­formance that draws a sizable crowd in the warm southern weather. 
"It (Texas) is a tough place to play," Louderback said. "They usually get quite a few people at their matches. 
In addition to being on the road, the health of the team remains an obstacle. 
see IRISH I page 14 

bats and arms have caught fire at no better time because they play four games in the next two days at The Eck. 
"I don't think we're over­whelming anyone," said head coach Paul Mainieri after the game. "But we're finding a way to win. We do what we have to do .. We faced their number-one pitcher today. I figured we couldn't lose if we shut them out," he joked. 
The game was a defensive showdown from the outset. Notre Dame second baseman Randall Brooks set the tone for the day with a sweeping backhand stab on a sharp 
see BASEBALL I page 16 
Softball 
at Providence, April 4, 12 p.m. 
Track 
vs. Western Michigan, April6 
Lacrosse 
at Harvard, April 6 


No. 1 singles player Jennifer Hall will lead the Irish into today's match against fifth­ranked Texas . 
• SOF!'BAU 
Streaking softball to host Friars 
By MIKE DAY Assistant SportS Editor 
The Easter bunny will have his day in the sun, but for now, he will have to share the spot­light. 
'The red hot Notre Dame soft­ball team (24-1 0). with its 12 game winning streak, just may steal the show. They will put their undefeated conference record on the line today when they travel to Providence for a doubleheader. 
Considered one of the elite teams in the league with an 11­2 overall record, the Friars should provide the Irish with their first big test of the Big East season. 
"We hope that having played a tough schedule early in the season, we will be ready against some of the stronger league teams," said Irish head coach Liz Miller. "We should also benefit from having played so many games at this point in the year." 
Whereas the Irish have played a dozen games in the last two weeks, Providence has competed in just 13 contests so far this year. Even with the busy schedule, the deep Notre 

Dame pitching staff should feel little effect this afternoon. 
Starters Terri Kobata, Joy Battersby, and freshman Angela Bessolo have been virtually unhittable during the Irish winning streak. Kobata, despite sport­ing a 12-1 mark with a microscopic 
0.47 ERA, believes her best has yet to come. 
"I know that I can throw the ball much 
The Observer/Rob Finch better than I Sophomore outfielder Jennifer Giampaolo is batting have so far .328 with 20 RBis, including four against Butler. 
Baseball 

this year," said Kobata. "With the exception of a couple of games, I have had problems just about every time out. These are problems that I know I can correct." 
Amazingly enough, Coach Miller agrees with her assess­ment. 
"I know it's hard to believe, but Terry Kobata has not pitched the way she is capable of," said Miller. "She is just now getting to the point where she ought to be. In these next couple weeks, I think you're go­ing to see an even more domi­nant pitcher." 
The key to the Irish surge has been the emergence of Battersby and Bessolo. In yes­terday's 8-0 victory over Butler, the pair combined for a four hit shutout. As a result of winning her sixth consecutive decision, Bessolo was named Big East Pitcher of the Week. 
"I've just tried to learn as much as I can from Terry and Joy," said Bessolo. "They have been a really big help, espe­cially when I struggled early in the season. It has made the transition that much easier." 
After today's matchup against the Friars, the Irish will travel to Yale for an afternoon game on Friday before concluding their holiday weekend with a doubleheader against Boston College on Saturday. 
If Notre Dame is going to re­turn home with its winning streak still in tack. they will have to continue to receive 
see MILLER/ page 17 
• Youth behind lacrosse success 
vs. St. John's(2}, April4, 5 p.m. see page 18 
Women's Tennis at Texas, April 4 
• Men's tennis into home stretch 
see page 17

Men's Tennis at Northwestern, April 6 • Saint Mary's softball falls see page 14 




