
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 108 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Matthews offers military view on peacekeeping 
By EMILY DIXON Nt•w., Wri1er 
.John Btmson Matthews, a Notre Damn grad­uatt~ and an assodate dean at the Marine Corps Command and Staff College at Quantico, Virg. discussed issues surrounding the United 

States Marines' in­volvement with peace­keeping missions last night in the lecture "Peaeekeeping: The Military Point of View." 
The lecture foeused on the problems creat­ed due to a confusing chain of command and other issur.s surround­ing the United Stales Marine's involvemnnl with peacekeeping missions. 
The purpose of 
peacekeeping missions is to "rreatn an environment through !the Mari1w'sl prnsnnee." Matthews said. l'alroling the arna and displaying the Amnriean flag con­tribute to stabilizing l.hn govtwnmtml in quos­lion. "We do not rnnndy bring our equipment, we bring our vahws, too," Matthews said. 
Unfortunately, the military has adopted a Healpolitik attitude, preoccupying its1df with national inlPrest, power. and self-interost siiH'I' tlw Cold War, according to Matlht\ws, who nncourag1~d a return to the Wilsonian ide a Is eo Ill'1'1" Ill\ d w i t h moraIity. h urn ani­tarianism. optm covenants. and eolltH~tive secu­rity. 
Mattlwws noted that even though the aver­age Anwriran is n~luctant to advoeate U.S. in­volvemPnt with pnaet~keeping missions, it is the rnsponsihility of tlw U.S. to do so in many situations. In n~gard to the erisis in Bosnia, Mattlwws said. "I lwlir.ve in my heart we should b1~ involveu." 
Aec:ording to Matthews, "peace opnrations hngin and nnd with tlw chain of command." In thn ptHtet~knnping mission in Lebanon, for ~~ x a 111 p I e . i t s n n m IHI as t h o u g h eve r yo n e lwlitwnd Llwy were the senior officer in eharg1\. Such an atmosplwrn crnatns a "wnh of confu­sion." Matthnws said. A chain of command is important in tPrms of ranking, but it is equally important for strnarnlinnd ef'fieimH:y. 
Otlwrwisn. what Mattlwws ll~rmed "mir.ro­rnanaglmumt from afar" occurs, jeopardizing tlw livns of military peacnkeepers and the obj1H:tivn of tlw mission. Fast approval for changns as Llw situation dPvnlops is crueial for 
see PEACE/ page 4 

Alum named Reader's Digest editor 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE Associate News Edi10r 
A member of Notre Dame's class of 
1968, Christopher Willcox. 49. has been named editor­in-chief of "Header's Digest," the world's most widely read magazine. 
As the sixth edi­tor-in-chief in the. 

74-year history of Willcox "Header's Digest," Willcox will be responsible for direct­ing global editorial operations of 48 editions of the magazine, which is published in 19 languages. llis responsibilities will also include pro­viding editorial oversight for the com­pany's special interest magazines and editorial content for multimedia and on-line services. 

The Observer/Katie Kroener Maryann Schwoyer holds an arabesque in dress rehearsal, as she prepares for the pro­duction of Coppelia scheduled to take place in O'Laughlin Auditorium this weekend. 
The magazine, which has more than 100 million readers monthly, contains stories selected from international, re­gional and local sources. These sto­ries range from hard-hitting reports from the forefront of medicine, envi­ronment and human rights to popular features filled with humor and drama. The magazine has a wide variety of articles with universal appeal for peo­ple of all ages and cultures. 
Willcox's career in journalism spans a 27-year period. Executive editor of "Header's Digest" since June of 1994, Willcox will be replacing Kenneth Tomlinson who retired as editor-in­chief of the magazine last month. 
Over the past four years, Willcox has assisted in starting four new edi­tions of "Header's Digest" in eastern and central Europe as part of the company's global growth strategy. He is currently in Bangkok to launch a new Thai-language edition of the magazine. 
And although Willcox was un­available for comment on what influ­ence his Notre Damr. education has had on his career, his wife, Emily, said "it helped a lot." Willcox went to Austria through Notre Dame during his sophomore year, and the trip "opened so many doors" for him, she said. It was "really helpful" in Willcox's acquisition of a job working for Hadio Free Europe!Hadio Liberty in Munich, Germany for four years, according to his wife. 
While at Notre Dame, Willcox was a Liberal Arts major who studied English. "Reader's Digest is the biggr.st and most important franchise in the world -With loyal readers in virtually every country," Willcox com­mented on the magazine. "Our chal­lenge is to further strengthen the 
see WILLCOX/ page 4 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 

Members of the cast of Coppelia engage in one of their final rehearsals before the performance this weekend. 
Ballerina captures spotligh_t at SMC 
By CAROLINE BLUM Schwoyer, a member of the Saint Mary's Edi10r Southold Danee Theater, en­
She spins. She twirls. She can walk on her toes, and balance on one leg. She epitomizes graeeful­ness. Sophomore Maryann Schwoyer is a ballerina. 
Like most other girls her age, when Schwoyer was 1 0 years old she pranced around her room pretending to be a sugar plum fairy. Last December, she pranced around an actual stage. But she wasn't pretending. 

chanted the next generation of young girls with h1\r performancn in the Nutcracker Ballet. 
"I had never donn the Nuteracker befon~ last Christ­mas," Schwoyer said. "I always wanted to, and was very excited to finally have it in my reper­toire." 
A nativn of Cary, North Car­olina, Schwoyer eontar.ted the 
see BALLET/ page 4 

• ~At ;. "UOt;'l UNION • HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCil 

Election sites, ticket announced Hellmuth, Tobin 
By MATTI lEW LOUGHRAN tP.r from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. today platform around some of the 

to lead as co-chairs
NL"w>Wrill"r and tomorrow. suggestions and problems Only one ticket is officially pointed out by the outgoing 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ action and also increase inter­
Tlw ti rn e has eorn e, once running, although write-in can­presidr.nt, Joe Manak, in his 
Assislant News Editor action between the dorm co­
again, for graduate students to didatP.s are accepted. The tick­last presidential message. 
presidents.
1~ast their votes for presidnnt et that is running is Hobert de Iligh among their coneerns is Deborah Hellmuth and Mike "I would really like to encour­and vice pmsident of the Grad­llaan for president with improvement of' the health cov­
Tobin were elected as the 1996-age more dorm interaction. 
uatn Student Union for the Deborah Coombs for vice presi­erage that is offered to gradu­97 co-chairs of I !all Presidents' This year we had a few pockets
1~orning year. dnnl. ate students. Earlier in the 
Council at the HPC meeting held of dorms organizing events and l·:lndions will lm lwld on Fri­De llaan, a fourth year year the Graduate School last night at Lyons llall. doing things together, and I day March 22 from 10 a.m. to 4 physies studm1t. has served the formed a Medieal Insurance The candidates for co-ehair would rnally lik1~ to see morn of p. rn., in thre1~ locations acrosfi Craduate Studnnt Council as a Heview Committee to investi­were llellmuth, co-president of that," said llellmuth. 
campus. Arts and Letters stu­department representative, gate any problems with the 
Pasquerilla East Hall, Tobin, co­"I think it would be fun to be 
dents may votn in the llesburgh Orientation Chair, ECI' Chair health care program. "The 
president of Zahm Hall and IIPC president and I think we 
l.ihrary Concours1~. Sdenee stu­and, most recently, Par­implementation of the Commit­
Stacey Carel, co-president of should have more group activi­
dnnts in tlw lirst floor lobby of lianwntarian. Coombs. a third tee's recommendations will be Breen-Phillips llall. Currnnt eo­ties so that we can all get to N in u wl and St:i1~ IH~e II all and year Medieval Institute student, monitored by the GSU, as we 
chairs Matt Schlatter and know eaeh other better," said 
l~nginnnring students in has served as a department need to follow up carnfully to 
Kristin Beary's last meeting will Tobin. 
Cushing II all of Engi1wering. representative and the chair of track the progress of im­be April 2, after which llellmuth In other IIPC news, Peter Ce­t·:arly voting is allowed in tim the Women's Hesouree Com­provements to our health care and Tobin will take over. saro, elass of 1999 president.
(;raduate Student Union Offke milll~e for the past year. 
The aim of both Hellmuth and at 21'J LaFortune Student Cen-The two have based their see GSU/ page 4 Tobin is to increase dorm inter-see H PC/ page 4 
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March 20, 1996 




Bookstore Dreams 
The hang-over recovery period is now complete, your skin is flakier than Phoebe and you have come to the realization that your bank account resembles that of the federal government's ­empty. Ah, nothing like the week after spring break. Tim Sherman

You can add one more rit­
Sports Editor

ual to the post-break period -the waiting to get onto a basketball court on campus often seems as hard as staying naturally tanned in South Bend. 
Maybe March Madness has something to do with it. Or it could be the fact that time on the beach served as a reminder that our once "Abs of Steel" now look more like "Bellies of Bud". But at the heart of it all is something far greater and more important. 
Bookstore Basketball XXV is on the horizon. And it's going to be big. 
How big remains to be seen, as sign-ups to enter NO's version of the "Big Dance" go until Friday. But you don't even have to get dressed up and get a trite gift for this one. 
You will want to bring your game though. But don't worry if you don't "got game", sign­up anyways and experience the circus-like (not circus-lunch) atmosphere of Bookstore .. 
For those of you who may not be familiar with one of Notre Dame's most exciting tra­ditions, here's a quick background. 
Bookstore Basketball is the largest outdoor five-on-five basketball tournament in the world. That's right, the world. As Adam Sandler might say, "Not too shabby." 
Starting in early April, the tourney is single elimination and open to all members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's family. It is played on courts all over campus with the final games serving as the highlight to An Tostal. 
But there is much more to it than just the games. There are the names. 
The opportunity to name one's team serves as a hilarious vehicle to showcase the school's collective sense of humor. Not only are the names highly comical, they are actually a good commentary of Notre Dame and current affairs. Then there are those that are tasteless. 
Here's a quick sampling from this year: 
We won't last as long as NBC's TV time-outs, The Phil Hickey Sky-Diving Team, David Koresh, Michael Jackson and three other guys that are en fuego, Norfolk-n-Way We're Gonna Win, and P.E. Nisses. 
The spectacle of seeing the garb of some of the lesser talented teams is another quality that makes Bookstore so interesting. From cross-dressing to biblical era attire to various undergarment items, expect the zany. 
If you're not yet sold on the merits of the annual rite of spring that is Bookstore, just ask the two most influential sports media sources, Sports Illustrated and ESPN . 
SI has already featured the tournament in past issues and there is talk a more substantial piece might be in the work for this year. And ESPN, which is fast replacing the dog as man's best friend, has been rumored to be interested in televising the finals weekend. 
Considering this year marks the 25th an­niversary of the tournament, such coverage would be a fitting tribute. So would breaking the record for number of participants. 
Right now, the record, set in 1992 stands at 
705 teams. That means at least 3,525 people 
caught "Bookstore Fever" back when Duke 
actually won an NCAA tournament game. 
In short, that record of 705 teams is a lot like 
parietals, any New Kids on the Block album, 
and Lou Gehrig's consecutive game streak. It's 
meant to be broken. 
Make history. Make it happen. Sign up. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production 
Bill Connolly John Hutchinson Jillian Pagliocca Jackie Moser 
Graphics Sports 
Brian Blank Mike Day 
Lab Tech Meghan Kunkel 
Negotiators conclude 40 hours of nonstop talks in GM strike 
DAYTON, Ohio 
Negotiators trying to end a two-plant Strike strike that has shut down much of General 
The strike at two General Motors

Motors Corp. went back to the bargaining 
Corp. brake plants has idled workers table today after a rest break from a ses­around North America. Locations and employees:sion that lasted 40 hours. 
As of 4 p.m. Monday MICHIGAN
Pickets were optimistic that talks seem to 
Pontiac..................5,037
be gaining momentum. 
OHIO Lansing.................8,009
"Negotiations are lasting longer and 
Lordstown......7,265 Auburn Hills............ 225longer," said GM worker Hon Manos of Moraine.........4,006 Detroi\...................3,1 00 Cincinnati. "Maybe a settlement will come Cortland............650 Orion Township.....3,600 
Kettering...........137 Flin\.......................9,997
pretty quick." 
Columbus.........469 Grand Rapids........1,428
The strike's effects began spreading to 
Sandusky..........506 Livonia......................927 engine and steel companies outside GM. Dayton..............517 Saginaw................2,025 Negotiations began meeting again today Vandalia...........220 Warren..................2,200 Parma............1,420 Ypsilanti.................4,300
at about noon, said GM spokesman Jim 
Defiance...........864 Grand Blanc..........1,637
Hagedon. The previous session started 
Toledo...............743 Kalamazoo...............286
Sunday morning and continued through Mansfield..........171 Adrian......................294 Monday until bargainers took a break 


MARYLAND DELAWARE KENTUCKY TEXAS
around 1 a.m. today. 
Baltimore........2,800 Wilmington......2,000 Bowling Green ..450 Arlington .......1,700
Neither side would comment on whether 
NEW YORK NEW JERSEY OKLAHOMA INDIANA
progress had been made. 
Lockport .......1,722 Linden...........2, 100 Oklahoma City.. 4,300 
Fort Wayne.....1,800

The strike by 2,700 workers at two GM Tarrytown......1,500 
Anderson...........560

brake parts plants in Dayton has caused a Tonawanda.......778 TENNESSEE LOUISIANA lndianapolis....1,557 parts shortage that has idled about Rochester...........62 Spring Hill.....8,200 Shrevepor\.........2,300 Marion...............394Monroe.................500
150,000 other GM workers in the United 
MISSOURI WISCONSIN ALABAMA States, Mexico and Canada. Kansas City...2,500 Oak Creek.......380 KANSAS Tuscaloosa..........242 The strike, which began March 5, has Wentzville......1,500 Janesville......4,900 Kansas City.......2,500 Decatur.............1,633 shut down 25 of 29 GM assembly plants 
MEXICO CANADA
and 17 parts plants. Dozens of parts plants 
Rio Bravo .............1,340 Nuevo Laredo..........1,243 Ste. Therese, Quebec.....1,500
were partially affected, including at least 
Fresnillo................1 , 776 Sabinas Hidalgo.........625 Oshawa, Ontario............10,74916 more added to the list today. Guadelupe............2,275 Sabinas Coahillo........648 Windsor, Ontario.............1,055 In a radio interview with Louisiana Cerritos.................1,047 Victoria....................1,635 St. Catherines, Ontario....1,140
Anahuac..................418 Linares.......................610
Network, President Clinton said he sees no 
Ramos Arizpe.......1,300 Chihuahua..............4, 139
need for federal mediation as long as both 
Casas Grande......1,714 Cuauhtemoc...........1,713
sides are negotiating in good faith. Los Mochis...........1,1 07 Delicias......................400 
Joe Hasenjager, Local 696 president, said Villa Ahumada.........328 Meoqui....................1,300 Monday that negotiators were determined Source: General Motors Corp. APNJm. J. Castello to resolve the dispute. 
Mandela fails to save marriage 
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa 
Nelson and Winnie Mandela had no ordinary marriage, and no ordinary ·· 
breakup. By the time the 38-year mar­riage formally ended in divorce on Tuesday, the public had witnessed the spectacle of the South African president being called to testify in court and his wife making a last-ditch ~ffort to post­pone the proceedings. "This is no ordi­nary case," Winnie Mandela pleaded. But Judge Frikkie Eloff was unswayed. He granted an immediate divorce, cutting the union that once symbolized the struggle against white minority rule. When Nelson Mandela asked for a divorce last year, he expressed hope for a quiet, amicable settlement. Yet Mrs. Mandela refused, forcing this week's formal divorce proceedings. 
Massacred children mourned 
DUNBLANE, Scotland 
Motorists got out of their cars and stood quietly in the streets of this Scottish town today as the funeral proces­sion for 5-year-old David Kerr made its way to the ceme­tery. Kerr was among 16 children killed last week at Dunblane's elementary school. In addition to Kerr, five other children were being buried today: Megan Turner, Melissa Currie, Charlotte Dunn, Sophie North and Hannah Scott. Many shops were closed in the town cen­ter, banks shut during the funerals and flags flew at half staff. The children and a teacher died when Thomas Hamilton opened fire on a gym class. He then shot and killed himself. Hamilton's body was released to relatives for burial today, the Scottish Office said. 

Betty Crocker gets make-over 
GOLDEN VALLEY, Minn. 

She's a little more whole wheat than white bread, and the prim face and frumpy bow tie have given way to a sleek collarless blouse and generous smile. Say hello to the newest incarnation of that supermarket diva, Betty Crocker, whose creation is as up-to-date as her look. "She looks like a working woman," Dorita Comesflying, an American Indian, said while grocery shopping in Min­neapolis. "She looks like she would have some Hispanic in her." The eighth version of the venerable cake mix model was introduced Tuesday by Minneapolis-based General Mills, which celebrated Betty's 75th birthday with a con­test to pick 75 women whose features would be blended to create the new Betty. The winners were chosen last month from among thousands of entries. The resulting portrait is of a woman with chin-length, glossy brown hair. 
Rats' rights repealed by state senate 
TRENTON, N.J. 

Angered by an animal welfare group's attempt to pros­ecute a man for bashing a rat to death in his garden, the state Senate unanimously voted to repeal rats' rights. It approved legislation Monday that would exdude rats and mice from protection under the state's animal cruelty laws. "Finally, the people get a victory over the rats," said Sen. Wynona Lipman, the bill's sponsor. The legisla­tion now goes to the Assembly, which has already let it die once. She introduced the bill after the Newark-based Associated Humane Societies pressed charges against a Hillside man for killing a rat that had been eating his tomatoes in his back yard in 1994. Charges later were dropped against Frank Balun. 



Wednesday, March 20. AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 20. Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~ 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUCJY 
ILL 
& • 

Michael Hungeling Viewpoint Brandon Williams 
Th• Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a memher of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Atlanta  43  34  Dallas  58  28  New Orleans 54  37  
Baltimore  46  39  Denver  58  20  New York  50  40  
Boston  43  37  Los Angeles 71  57  Philadelphia 49  39  
Chicago  32  29  Miami  69  55  Phoenix  88  58  
Columbus  38  33  Minneapolis 34  18  St. Louis  40  29  

---------------~ ---~------------------­
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Callahan: Spiritual 'balance' rooted in faith 
By KELLY FITZPATRICK said Callahan. After high han. "I believe that if we take News Writer school, she married and had a care of one another. then God child only a few years after. It helps us take care of our other 
The key to achieving a bal­was not until several years later responsibilities," said Callahan. anet~ between daily activities that Callahan was able to pur­She advises us to have a quiet and a healthy spiritual life is sue her desire to earn a college prayer life and to recognize that rootnd in a firm faith in God and degme. However, she said that humans are fallible. "Admit in the realiza­she was able to continually find an honest and open way that 'I tion that we a balance between work, family, need help'," Callahan said. as humans service, and prayer. According Callahan pointed out that when are weak, to Callahan, a firm belief in reli­facing connict, not only do we according to gious faith allows her to recog­need God's help to help us han­Carolyn nize that God gives her strength dle our multiple roles, but we Callahan, to face her conflicts. She said also need to rely on other peo­accounting that God lets us combine all of ple. 
professor in Callahan 
the parts of our lives so that we Jonathan Patrick said that the tlw College of are better able to combat our reason that he got involved in Business Administration. problems. "You'd be surprised service activities was because he 
Callahan, along with Student how many parts of your life can felt a sense of duty to try to help Body President Jonathan be integrated together," right some of the injustices in Patrick, Pangborn Hesident As­Callahan continued. the world. He traveled to sistant Melly Vithayathil, and Paying attention to God's tim­Ecuador to teach as part of his DtHtn of Notm Dame Law School ing also helps Callahan deal summer service project, and he David Link, diseussed her views with her everyday battles. She said that he only recently began on handling daily pressures says that at times we have one to understand the joy that was while eontinuing to find time for major role in our lives, and God exchanged between the volun­spiritual aetivities in "To Pray helps us see how to use our en­teers and the people of Ecuador. and To Serve-Balancing the ergy to fulfill that one role. "It's According to Patrick, it was l'mssun~s of Both Worlds." the quiet realization that God is not until after he participated in 
"I've hnen balandng multiple with us and that we're never the Notre Dame Encounter that roles probably all of my life," truly alone," concluded Calla-he finally found a sense of equi-

Yeats' works set to Irish music 
Spcdal to The Observer et's other writings as well. after this one. 
Brought to life by Kiltartan Presented on a simply sot 
"In the Deep Heart's Core," Road-Sobol, Kathy Cowan and stage, Sobol's musical settings an evening of W.B. Yeats' Tom Orf, accompanied by a are beautiful extensions of works set to stirring Irish fine three-piece musical en­Yeats' words. The combination music, will be presented by semble-the program follows provides a magnificent journey Klltartan Hoad, Saturday, Yeats in more or less chrono­Into the heart and soul of per­March 23 at 8 p.m. in the logical order. The audience is haps the greatest poet in the Moreau Center/ ()'Laughlin treated to all of the poet's pas­hiStory of the English language. Auditorium at Saint Mary's sions and obsessions: Irish na­Tickets for "In the Deep Collngn. tionalism, Celtic myth and the Heart's Core" are $14 for Subtitled "A Mystic Cabaret," occult, love, death and the en­adults, $12 for senior 'citizens, 
"In the Deep Heart's Core" during power of creation. $7 f()r Saint Mary's-Notrennatly weavBs the sounds of' The first half of the show pre­Dame Community members . traditional Irish music with sents Yeats as a dreamy young and $6 for students. Yeats' lyrical magic with words. man, full of patriotic zeal, torn The Saint Mary's box office, Adapted and composed by by unrequited love. In the sec­located in O'Laughlin Audi­.Joseph Daniel Sobol, a folklorist ond half a more mature and torium, is open from 9 a.m. to 5 and musician with a passion for aging figure appears: disen· p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Ytlats. the show colleets 29 chanted with his dreams of a Visa, Discover and MasterCard 
Yeats poems set to music, and romantic Ireland, he turns to orders are accepted at 284­
indudes excerpts from the po-spiritualism and hope for life 4626. 
Don't Let Your Spring Break Fun Stop! 
Cotne See Sho"Wboat! 
Enjoy the play and two hours to shop and dine in Chicago for only 25 bucks. Sponsored by the Class of1996. Hurry while tickets last! 


Tickets are on sale Now at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Bus Leaves at 
4:30PM from 


Stepan Center. 

librium between his work and service activities. "I knew I needed something more," he said. Since returning from that retreat, he said he feels that he has struck a balance between family, friends, service, hard work, and God. "Now I have a road map of where I want to go," he continued. 
Patrick stressed the positive impact of his service activities on his life, saying, "I really start­ed to understand what I'd been missing." lie said that prayer and service when separated are not complete. However, after his service activities became rooted in something other than a sense of duty, he found the balance he had been striving to achieve. 
Vithayathil talked about her experience at a women's shelter in South Bend, saying that it helped her better understand her faith. She said that she dis­covered that her faith is "rooted in divine response to a world full of injustice and suffering and that was and is love." 


Malloy to highlight chancellor's induction 
Special to The Observer 
Father Edward Malloy, presi­dent of Notre Dame, will deliver the principa·l address at the in­auguration April 11 of Robert Khayat as the 25th chancellor of the University of Mississippi. 
A professor of law, Khayat previously has served as asso­ciate dean of the university's law school, vice chancellor for university affairs, and execu­tive director of the sesquicen­tennial celebration. lie is a past president of the NCAA Foundation, of which Father Malloy also is a member. 
Founded in 1848 in Oxford, the University of Mississippi is 
"As a citizen of the world com­munity, I must be aware of my place in the environment," said Vithayathil. 
"By taking part in serviee ac­tivities, we're able to move be­yond ourselves," she continued. 
She said that serviee and spiri­tual health are calls to act and love. Silent periods of prayer and meditation are beneficial, but ultimately her goal is to move towards a complete com­munity "where our life becomes our prayer." 
Link told of his aspirations in college to become a business­man to support both his even­tual family and his faith life. "I thought they were both sepa­rate," he said. lie told of one experience at a homeless shelter in South Bend that brought him to the realization that "I was called here to love." 
From then on, he realized that his faith life and his professional life are the same. "I had no problem fitting service into my schedule: service is my sched­ule," Link said. 
the state's oldest public institu­tion of higher learning. 
Prior to his inauguration ad­dress, Father Malloy will attend the Notre Dame Club of Missis­sippi's annual Universal Notre Dame Celebration in Jackson on April 10 to speak on the University's Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). 
Established in 1994, ACE trains recent college graduates to teach in understaffed parochial schools throughout the southeastern United States . This year the program's teacher corps will number about 105 serving in 16 dioce­ses, including those in Biloxi and Jackson, Miss. 
Women's Resource Center 
presents 


1996 Film Festival 
Thursday, March 21: Clueless Friday, March 22: Some Like It Hot! 
All showings are in Montgomery Theatre at 7:00PM 
All Films Are Free! 
SPRING PASSES NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE Student daily 9 hole rate $5 Add'! 9 hole rate $2.00 Student Club Rental $5 Pull Carts $2  
Quality Merchandise Brand name apparel from Cutter and Buck, Izod, Tommy Hiljiger, Nike and much more  
Call for Tee Times at 631-6425  

-----~----------------------­
page 4 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
Sing a new song 
The Folk Choir performed yesterday as part of a lecture on the necessity of Catholic spirituality in today's busy lives. 
The Observer • NEWS 



Ballet 
continued from page 1 

Southold Dance Theater even before she was accepted to Saint Mary's College. 
"I was nervous that I wouldn't be able to dance while I was in college," Schwoyer remembered. 
"My parents read about the company in The Observer. There was a story about a Notre Dame graduate who danced for Southold. So when I came up for a visit, I sat in on a few of their classes." 
Before joining Southold, Schwoyer danced for several different companies in the United States. She began in her home state at the age of 13 as a full member of the Car­olina Company. In high school she broadened her horizons, rotating summers at the Penn­sylvania, Atlanta, and Rich­mond Companies. This sum-

Willcox 
continued from page 1 
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 
said. Although Schwoyer's concentration lies in ballet, she will dance in one of the contemporary "Three Preludes." 
Schwoyer attends classes four, two-hour classes a week in addition to an hour and a half rehearsal. When asked how she, a Presidential Merit Scholar, handles her Biology major with her dancing, Schwoyer simply described bal­let as "a release." 
"The people I dance with are my really good friends," she said. "And I love what I do. take a few minutes before I go out on stage for a performance to get into character. When I'm on stage I portray a differ­ent role. And it's fun, because I become a whole different per­son." 
Schwoyer admits she gets nervous before a performance, although the audience could never be able to tell. 
"Once I get out there I sense the audience and their sup­port," Schwoyer detailed. "I love dancing. It's part of who I am." 
Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students can purchase tickets for $10 at the O'Laughlin Box Office. Performances are at 
8:00 p.m. March 22, and 2:00 
p.m. March 24 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 


mer she hopes to become a member of the Boston Com­pany. 
But Schwoyer doesn't have much time these days to worry about Boston. This weekend, she will star as the lead in the ballet "Coppelia" in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's. She has appeared in the ballet before as a friend of the character she will portray this weekend, Swanhilda. 
"I've had the lead in plays at home, but they were shorter and not major ballets like 'Cop­pelia,"' she said. 
"Coppelia," a story about Swanhilda and Franz, two young peasant lovers who un­cover the secrets of Dr. Cop­pelius and his mysterious life­size dolls, is just one of three acts to the Southold Dance Theater's spring concert. 
The program will also feature Saint-Seans' "Carnival of the Animals" with new choreogra­phy by Southold's Artistic Director Bonnie Boilini Baxter, and three quartets that will be danced to Gershwin's bluesy piano score in "Three Pre­ludes." 
"The audience will see some­thing classical, something mod­ern. something whimsical and bright, and something lyrical as we perform new and old works from the repertoire," Baxter 
GSU 
continued from page 1 
plan and ensure that these rec­ommendations do not fall through the cracks," de Haan and Coombs said in a prepared platform statement. 
They are also concerned with communication within the GSU and representation of the GSU in University decision-making bodies. Plans to increase the number of committee seats available to graduate students and to increase communication between the GSU and the ad­ministration are all present in their platforms. 
In addition to these candi­dates, graduate students may write in their own candidates for the offices and are invited to write their comments on the ballots. 

Peace 
continued from page 1 
success. When timely approval is impossible due to a confus­ing chain of command, the result is disastrous. 
Matthews strongly urged learning lessons from peacekeeping missions in the past. 
Our "terrible reluctance to learn lessons such as these will force us to repeat our­selves," Matthews says.The lecture was sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and the ND ROTC. 
HPC 

continued from page 1 
also spoke to the council about changes the 1999 officers would like to make for sopho­more class council representa­tion. 
"Instead of simply filling out applications, we would like the representatives from each dorm to be elected. We hope that this will result in more rep­resentation and participation," said Cesaro. 
Candidates may begin cam­paigning on March 24 and gen­eral elections will be held on Tues., March 26. If a run-off is necessary, it will take place on Thurs., March 26. 
A Collegiate Jazz Festival will be held April 12-13 at Stepan Center, sponsored by the Stu­dent Union Board. Thirteen collegiate jazz groups from col­leges such as Purdue Univer­sity, Central Michigan Univer­sity and the University of Illinois and also six major jazz notables will play at this festival. 
"We have a weekend full of jazz events scheduled. In the past years, we have had some really great musicians. Two years ago, we had the drummer from the Tonight Show Band. SUB would really like to see more student participation. I often hear people saying that they wished they had known about the festival in the previ­ous years, and so we would like to have more students find out about it sooner," said Sue Rie­mann, co-chair of the Collegiate Jazz Festival. 

appeal of the magazine across age groups and cultures in an increasingly competitive envi­ronmimt." 
Willcox is also an adjunct pro­fessor at the Columbia Uni­versity Graduate School of Journalism. 
"He is recognized for his com­pelling blend of journalistic skills, editorial leadership and deep respect for the heritage and values that have made Reader's Digest so successful," said James Schadt, chairman and CEO of The Reader's Digest Association, Inc., the direct marketer of magazines, books, music, video and multimedia products which has its head­quarters in Pleasantville, New York. 
Willcox has "impressive in­ternational experience and management ability," Schadt added. 
March 29, 30 of Bpm; March 31 ot2:30 pm LiHie Theatre For ticket information call 219/284-4626 Mon.-Fri., 9om-Spm 
A PUBLIC CONFERENCE Saturday March 23, 1996 9:ooa.m. Notre Dame Law School Courtroom 
Sponsored by: 

THE CENTER FOR CIVIL AND HuMAN RIGHTS AND THE MmwEsT CoALITION FOR 
HuMAN RIGHTS 

In Cooperation With: 
HuMAN RIGHTS WATCH AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL USA NoTRE DAME LAw ScHOOL NoTRE DAME LAw ScHooL's INTERNATIONAL LAw SociETY THE jOAN B. KROC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL PEACE STUDIES THE HELEN KELLOGG INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES THE UNITED NATIONS AssociATION, ST. JosEPH CouNTY CHAPTER 
Brief Description: At this conference members of the Prosecutor's Office for these two ad hoc international criminal tribunals will provide an assessment of their progress to date and will highlight both their most significant achievements as well as their most difficult challenges. Based upon this assessment they will help to formulate a number of recommendations for those working on the establishment of a permanent international criminal court. 
Luncheon Address: Pre~Registration required by Wednesday, March 20 (219) 631~Bsss Justice Richard J. Goldstone, Chief Prosecutor, ICTY & ICTR; Justice of the South African Constitutional Court 

Wednesday, March 20, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS 
page 5 

Dole clinches GOP presidential nomination 
Senator wins with Midwest 
. 

przmary sweep 
By JOHN KING Associated Press 
Snnatur Bob Dole clindwd the He publican prnsidnn tial nomination Tunsday with a ~idwest ..a. 
prtmary 
Dole 

SWflll(> that set tlw stage fur a generational battln in November pitting the World War II hero against the 
Baby Boom Democratic incum­bent. 
"The fall campaign is under way," Dole said triumphantly. "It is 230 days to defeating Bill Clinton." Even so, key Republi­cans worried that Ross Perot was preparing to enter the presidential fray. 
Dole defeated persistent rival Pat Buchanan by lopsided mar­gins in Ohio, Michigan, Jllinois and Wisconsin. As a result, he gained more than 200 dele­gates and crossed the 996 mark needed to mathematical­ly clinch the GOP nomination, according to The Associated Press count. 
The Kansas senator refused to declare victory in the nomi­nation chase, eager to maintain meaning for next week's Cali­fornia primary. Still, he knew the prize that eluded him in two prior White House bids was his. 
"The first time I came up empty. The last time I came up short," Dole told AP. "This time I'm coming up full." 
Perot's maneuvering came just as a new national poll showed Dole moving to within eight points of Clinton in a head-to-head matchup. 
"Bill Clinton is going to be defeated if it's a two-man race," Wisconsin Gov. Tommy Thompson said Tuesday night in a candid comment to CNN. "I think there's always a prob­lem if Ross Perot or someone else gets in." 
As Dole looked ahead to a fall matchup with Clinton, a weary 


Oh sure, it lOOkS innocent. But it could be wired to a no-name company that has no qualms about overcharging broke college students. so, calling card in hand, you dial 1 800 CALL ATT and save yourself some much-needed cash. 
U11e ojf campus? 
Dial 1 800 CALL ATT for Calling Card calls. 
Always get AD::f. Nevea· get overcharged. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice:M 


AT&T 
Your True Choice 
o1996 Al&T 

Buchanan headed West. to California, and denounced as "grossly premature" entreaties by aides that Buchanan should be considered as Dole's run­ning mate. Ignoring the dele­gate math, Buchanan said he was "doing battle for the nomi­nation..... We are going to pull no punches." 
Dole spent the day at the Capitol tending to his work as Senate majority leader and plunging into a fresh budget debate with Clinton, who was already assured of the Demo­cratic nomination. 
On Dole's dramatic night, there were fresh indications the ballot might offer voters more choices than the Democratic and Republican nominees. In Texas, Perot said 
flatly that he would run again 
if members of his new Heform 
Party asked him to be their 
nominee. 
Dole said he would likely make an effort to dissuade Perot. "Go up and down his is­sues list -if we just had Bob Dole in there we would get it done," Dole said. 
It was clear heading into the voting that Dole was poised for a four-state sweep. The only drama was whether he could win Michigan and Wisconsin by wide enough margins to clinch. Dole also hoped for big mar­gins to prove his strength in industrial battlegrounds likely to be pivotal come November. 
He was winning big, although exit polling exposed weak­nesses, including concerns Dole was too old. 
Tuesday's results showed Dole getting 66 percent in Ohio, to 21 percent for Buchanan. Illinois was 61 per­cent for Dole and 23 percent for Buchanan. Michigan returns had Dole with 51 per­cent, Buchanan 36 percent ­his best showing of the primary season. Wisconsin was 51 per­cent Dole, 33 percent Buchanan. 


Service 
foruiD 


planned 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre 
Dame's 1996 Alumni Social 
Concerns Forum will be held. 
Retreat House on campus. 
This year's forum. the fifth such meeting annually spon­Sored by the Notre Dame Alumni A.-;sociation and the University's Center for Social Concerns, will con­cern Summer Service Projects. 
The Summer Service 
Projects program is under­
written by Notre Dame 
alumni clubs and the 
University's James F. An· 
drews scholarship fund. 
Established in 1980, the 
program provides $1500 
scholarships to undergradu­
ate students who devote 
eight weeks of their summer 
to a project serving the poor 
in a city where there is a 
Notre Dame alumni club. 
Staff members from the Center for Social Concerns and representatives of local alumni clubs select and design the service projects. and the student volunteers remain in contact with members of the alumni club throughout eight weeks of the project. 
Since 1980 1,321 Notre Dame students have taken part in the program. More than 170 students and 115 alumni clubs are expected to take part this year. 
Speakers at the Alumni Social Concerns Forum will be Father Michael Ivers, pastor of Saint Agatha's church in Chicago. and Mary Kay Meyer of Shalom Catholic Worker Bouse In Kansas City, both of whom have been hosts for Notre Dame student volunteers. 
The meeting will include discussions with more than 40 representatives of Notre Dame alumni clubs nation­wide and 10 students who have recently completed Summer Service Projects. 
-----~--~------------, 
Wednesday, March 20, 1996

page 6 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 



President officially unveils '97 budget plan 
Clinton splan includes tax cuts for middle class 
By MARTIN CRUTSINGER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton today sent Congress a $1.64 trillion elec­tion-year budget that would provide modest tax relief to the middle class while reaffirming his commitment to balancing the budget -"not later but now." 
After a year of hostile and fu­tile debate with the Republican Congress, Clinton challenged the GOP leaders to finally break the negotiating deadlock and strike a balanced-budget deal for the good of the coun­try. 
"We should enact a balanced budget and we should do it now -not after the November election, not after the political season, not later but now," the president said. 
"The American people deserve nothing less. It is the right thing to do." 
The response from Republi­cans was harsh. 
"We passed a balanced bud­get; Clinton vetoed it," said House Speaker Newt Gingrich. "Who's he kidding? We passed tax cuts; Clinton vetoed it." 
The president's budget pro­posed a 4 percent increase in spending over the current year in a massive budget submis­sion that mixed dry numbers with many of the president's re-election themes -protect­ing the vulnerable and favorite programs such as the envi­ronment and education against what he views as extreme deficit-cutting efforts by Republicans. 
The budget would make good 
on Clinton's 1992 campaign 
pledge to provide a middle­
class tax cut, offering $100 bil­
lion in tax reductions with the 
bulk of that going to families 
with young children or college 
education expenses. 
It would also go after some 
sophisticated investors by tax­
ing more of the profits they 
earn from sales of stocks. 
Republicans, however, 
showed no signs of abandoning 
their own budget program, 
which offers twice as much in tax cuts. stated his "Middle Class Bill of 

They attacked Clinton's bud­Rights" tax cut proposals he get documents as a sham that first outlined in December would put off the most painful 1994 after Republicans cap­spending reductions until after tured control of both houses of a second Clinton term ended. Congress for the first time in 
The House Republican Con­40 years. ference, headed by Rep. John The president's proposal Boehner of Ohio, issued a would offer, if fully phased in, statement asserting that a $500 tax credit for each child Clinton has never presented a younger than 13. real balanced budget and "it is It would also allow deduc­a joke to believe that this bud­tions of up to $10,000 per fam­get, with its many election­ily for college expenses and year promises that we've all expand the availability of heard before, is any different Individual Retirement than before." Accounts. 
The president's proposals, His plan does not include the outlined in six volumes totaling long-cherished Republican 2,196 pages, provide the first goal of cutting taxes on capital program-by-program look at a gains, profits made from the budget plan he has been push­sale of stocks and other assets. ing since January. In fact, the president would go 
the other way, increasing taxes 
The formal submission of the by $4.1 billion over seven budget is six weeks late due to years on some investors by the protracted deadlock with introducing a new method of the Republican-controlled calculating capital gains. Congress, a dispute that has Constrained by the need to twice shut down major por­eliminate massive deficits, tions of the government. · Clinton's proposals for new 
The current fiscal year is government spending were half gone without resolution of modest. spending disputes for many Clinton did offer to give agencies. $1,000 scholarships to the top 
The president is scheduled to 5 percent of high school meet Wednesday with Senate seniors, provide seed money Majority Leader Bob Dole and aimed at wiring every school in Gingrich to see if a budget America to a nationwide com­compromise is possible. puter network by 2000 and 
"We'll see whether there is a give tax incentives to compa­
window of opportunity to get nies to clean up abandoned 
the nation's business done be­inner-city industrial sites. 
fore the campaign begins this 
fall. Are we going to balance Clinton's budget projects the 
the budget or not -that's the deficit for 1997 will rise to 
issue," presidential spokesman $164.2 billion, up from $158 
Mike McCurry told reporters billion in the current year, but 
today. then decline steadily until 
In his budget message, Clin­reaching a surplus of $7.6 bil­
ton signaled that he would lion in 2002. 
continue to resist what he If achieved, that would be 
considers GOP efforts to cut the first time the government's 
back too sharply on the growth books have balanced since 
in Medicare, the huge health 1969. 
care program for the elderly, These calculations use eco­
and Medicaid, the federal-state nomic assumptions of the Con­
program that provides health gressional Budget Office, a Re-
services to the poor. 
The goal, he said, should be 


(1) BUDGET '97 
Proposed spending in President Clinton's $1.64 trillion 1997 budget 
*Percentages do not reflect still-undistributed receipts. 

Source: Office of Management and Budget AP 
publican demand accepted by of Management and Budget, the White House. Clinton would achieve a bal­Using more optimistic anced budget one year earlier, 
assumptions of his own Office in 2001. 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Do you need extra money or valuable marketing and sales experience? The Observer offers: 
• 
Flexible Hours around class schedules. 

• 
Excellent Income Opportunity. 

•
Valuable Work Experience in a Fun Atmosphere 


Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Ellen @ 631-6900 or drop off your resume to room 314, LaFortune. Resumes are due by 5p.m Friday. 
"a government that is leaner, 

(]Iuman CJ?..!1Jfrts CU)eek and Cfliversitr 
but not meaner." 

Cflar CefefJration·
Clinton unveiled his spending plans as Congress continued 

~tntan --9)asqueri(kl ~st --~vis --9J?pns
slow-moving efforts to com­plete work on agency budgets 

w...,.......y, March 20, I 996 
for fiscal 1996. 

Kryn4te Spt!ittkn-: Mr. Ln Fr~tnlrlin 
The budgets for nine Cabinet 

Founder, The Shak.a Fraoklin Foundation 60r Youth; Denver, Co 
departments and scores of 

,.Is~ ofRAu, Ethnicity. an.J ToJ.ay's Youth"
other federal agencies remain mired in partisan disputes. 

7:30 p_m at the Center foe Social Concerns 
Clinton's budget today re­

Thur•tlay, March 2 I • I 996 
Discussion: "Affimative .Action and l'«>tre Il:une." 

A n:view ofadmi"ions na.nd.ard.s. financial aid/scholarship 
awards, F.i.cu.lty hiring and Catholicity. Featur-ing: Mr. Joe RuSIO (Financial Aid), Ms. Susan Joyoe (Admissions), Prof. Martin Murphy (Anthropology), 
and Pruf. Kathleen Biddidc (History) 
7:30pm in DeBartolo 102 
for: 


aewpoant: tre e to a ave Anlcnc:an u ent
The Assoc•at•on of Colleae un•ons-lnternat•onal 
P.resenter. M.s.. Andrea Topa.$h (yrons Hall a.nd the Graduate SchooJ)
Rea•onal Conference occurr•na on the llotre 
7:30pm in Lyons HaH Chapel
Dame campus •n llowember I007 sponsored by 
•Demonstration: ChlturaJ Ans (~tial Arts, Dancing)
the oH•ce of Student Actiw,.•es 
9:00 pm in Keenan Hall Basement 
•Entertainment: Sahoc Latino
Rules and Regulations 

10:30 m in Keenan Hall Basement 
• Must contain and maintain the theme "Discover Gold" 
Setunlay1 March 23, I 996
• Other pertinent information: 
OiKU$5ion: ~ligious Di~rsity and &umenicaJ Prayer
ACU-1 Region 9 Conference 
A discussion ofdiversity witlun and among .rdigious tr.a.ditioos.
November 7-9 1997 

Featuring: Fr. David Burrell (Theology/Philosopby)~
University of Notre Dame 
Prof. Roland Smith {Sociology)~ and Notre Dame Studenta 
• The design must be two-dimensional 
12:30 pm in Lewis Hall Basement 
• Any medium may be used, i.e. watercolor, colored pencil, charcoal, etc. 
Video Presenta.Lions and Di.scu.uion 
6;00 pm in Keenan, Lewis. Lyons, and PaMJuerilla Ea:lt Basementa Student P.ulel Discu511ion: "What is DiYrsity?" 
• 
The design should be in color. 

• 
The design must be contained within a 8 1/2 XII inch piece of paper. 


8:00 pm in Keenan Hall Basement
• The design must be adaptable for use in various formats, i.e. T-shirts, stationary, signs, promotional items, etc. 
Suntl.y, March 24, I 996 
• Deadline for all entries is 3:00 PH on April 4, 1996, at the Student 
M..us and Celdu-ation of Oi\ersity Dly
Activities Office. 

Celebrants: Fr. Don M cNcill, Fr. David Scheidler, Fr. Pat Neary,
• The selected logo design will become the property of ACU-1 and the 
and Fr. Martin Nguyen University of Notre Dame. 
Featuring: Coro Primavera de Nue10t.-. Senora ancl Voi~ of Fa.ith GO&pd Choir HomiJi£ts: CoUcen Knight (Pa.squcrilla ~t) More information is available from the Office of Student 
and Mel Tardy (AdrniM'lons) Activities, 31 S LaFortune Student Center. 

Wednesday, March 20, 1996 

The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Perot considering another run 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Hoss Perot said Tuesday he would run for president again and "give it everything I have" if members of his new Heform Party want him as their candi­date. 
His comments came as aides worked to put Perot's name on thfl November ballot in Texas, Florida, and as many as a dozen more states. 
Top Perot aides said the Texas businessman's name was being used only as a "stand-in candidate" until a Reform Party nominee is chosen in September. But most of those organizing the effort have made no secret they want Perot to run, and he said flatly Tuesday that he would answer such a t:all. 
'"Let's assume the dust clears, and that's what the members of this party want," Perot told WOAI radio in San Antonio, Texas. 
"Then certainly, I would give it everything I have, because probably there's not a luckier person alive in this country today,' he said.' 
In the radio interview, Perot said the Hepublican and Demo­cratic parties were equally to blame for "government shut­downs, train wrecks and pro­paganda." 
Using Perot as a stand-in 
noon. He said that while a sheen of oil remained on the water


Leprechaun Tryouts 
1820-1920 
around the barge, no more heavy oil was leaking.

Wed., March 20, 1996 
The Buffalo Marine Service 
Inc. barge broke open in a wa­

.James ltl. o~Toole 

8:00 PM in "The Pit" of 
terway between Pelican Island


1,he University ofMassachusetts, 
and Bolivar Peninsula. 


the Joyce Center. 
Buffalo Marine took respon­


Boston 
sibility for the spill and said the company would pay for the cleanup. 

Thursday, March 21, 1996 
It refused to speculate on

4:15PM 
why the barge ran aground 
and ruptured, saying only that the high wind was at least partly to blame. 
The Coast Guard said it last inspected the 28-year-old barge in January. 
One of the worst shipping accidents in the area was the June 1990 spill of the Norwe­gian tanker Mega Borg, which leaked 4.3 million gallons of crude oil about 60 miles off Galveston. 

Heshurgh Library Lounge 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies 
BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW!!! Confidential Counseling 
APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
SOUTH BEND • EAST DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND Ironwood Circle 417 N. St. Louis Blvd. 

1997 IPw EXECUTIVE COMMIDEE!!! 
20041ronwood Circle, Suite I Call 234.. 0363 273-8986 (24 hours) 



OON'f MISS OU11!!!!!!!!!
I:!1i jII!~rm'it~l:ftg~11 ''J 311131i I i~tq~!~l ijltj 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5PM MARCH 29 
the NAFTA and GATT trade

1n THE cusHwA CENTER FoR 
deals. The organization plans a La­

c:!I L..FTHE STUDY OF AMERICAN 
bor Day weekend convention to select a presidential and vice presidential candidate. Anyone seeking the nomination would need the support of 10 percent 

1.1 CAT~~~!.~ISM 
Passing: Race, Religion, 
of the party's membership to be eligible. 

and the Healy Family, 
name on the ballot had been an speculation," he said. option since he first began or­National surveys suggest that ganizing the new party last in a three-way election today, year. But as some ballot dead­Clinton would win and Perot lines approach, and no political would run third in the mid­figure of note has stepped for­teens, not far off the 19 percent ward to seek the Reform Party he won in 1992. nomination, the activity is a As they nervously watch Per­reminder that Perot is deter­ot's maneuvering, Republicans mined to once again have a ma­worry that Perot could tip Re­jor voice in the presidential publican states like Florida and election. Texas to Clinton, although 
"A sense is settling in among George Bush carried both in the public out there that there 1992 despite Perot's strong ought to be more choices" than showings. Clinton and Dole, said Russell "I hope not," Dole said in a Verney, Perot's top political recent interview when asked if aide. he expected Perot to run. "I just 
Just last month, Perot an­hope they let us have a two-per­swered with a flat "no" when son race and we can both go asked if he would run again. out and try to attract the Perot Since then, however, he has voters." reopened the door to a second For now, the consensus is that campaign if the organizers of Perot would help Clinton the new party drafted him. because his remaining support Aides said he had several hours tends to come disproportion­of time blocked out this week ately from Republicans. But for local television and radio in­many believe the dynamic could terviews in areas where Reform shift if Perot or someone else Party organizing is under way. running under the Reform Party 
"I think finally everyone is fig­banner concentrated criticism uring out it is going to be a on Clinton. three-way race," said Gordon Pat Buchanan, Dole's Repub­Black, a pollster who has peri­lican challenger, has voiced in­odically advised Perot. Black is terest in the Reform Party but convinced Perot will be the can­Perot has made clear he does didate "because there has not consider the conservative never been another serious al­commentator a worthy heir to ternative." his organization. 
Verney insisted otherwise. Former Connecticut Gov. "The Olympics are coming up Lowell Weicker also has talked and they ought to add a new of running as an independent, event, baseless political and possibly as the Reform Party candidate, but he does not share the party's opposition to 

Texans begin efforts to clean up oil spill 
By MIKE DRAGO 
Associated Press 
N.M. OKLA. ':.C: 
'-."\...,. ,, ~ 
"'-'..._.. ,~ ....... ~' ··I~

GALVESTON, Texas 
Hundreds of people worked 
Fort Worth••Dallas t 
today to clean up a five-mile oil slick that soiled some 
TEXAS Austin Dewil ) 


'· 0 ran aground and ruptured. shoreline areas after a barge 
200 miles 
The 275-foot barge began 

LSgushing intermediate fuel oil 
200km MEXICO. 
just outside the Houston Ship Channel on Monday. 
TEXAS 
Houston Ship Channel 
Wind and current carried 

the ribbon of gooey oil from rTrinity Bay the mouth of Galveston Bay at 
Houston 
l
, Galvtston

least 5 miles out into the Gulf of Mexico. 
Globs of oil were reported along about 2,000 yards of 
...., shoreline on the east end of Path of 
spill
Galveston Island today. 
25 miles 
Some oily birds had been 
Gulf of 
~
spotted, but none was cap­
25km Mexico 

tured yet to be cleaned up, the I Texas General Land Office AP said. 
Workers placed protective Rich Arnhart, coordinator for booms around the barge and the Texas General Land Office. along nearby environmentally Two of the barge's 12 com­
sensitive shorelines immedi­partments were ruptured, said ately after the spill, but initial Coast Guard Cmdr. Dean Kutz. efforts to recover the oil were The two compartments held hampered by steady 40 mph about 4,200 barrels, or 
wind, with gusts to 50 mph. 176,400 gallons, of the heavy The wind had abated signifi­oil. .. cantly this morning, and more Officials said today that two than 300 people were at work additional barge compart­
on the spill. ments might be damaged but the remaining eight appeared Four spill cleanup companies to be intact. and at least six skimming ves­An empty barge was moved 
alongside the damaged vessel

sels also were at the scene. Coast Guard helicopter crews early today to remove remain­used infrared cameras ing oil. 
By midmorning, all but
overnight to track the spill. 

"It's not a good situation, about 2,000 barrels of oil had but we're taking all the steps been pumped out of the barge, we possibly can to get the and Kutz said authorities booms in the proper place to believed the operation would protect the environment.'' said be completed by this after­



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, March 20, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matr Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan 
Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...............................jed Peters Spons Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observ<r is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does nm necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion of either insdrmion. The news is reported as accuratdy and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Edimr, !'hom Editor, Sports Edimr, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns presenc the views of rhe aurhors, and nor necessarily those of The: Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Noue Dame/Sainr Mary•s com­munity anJ to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Business Office 631-53I3 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 63I-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 63I-8839 News/Photo 63I-5323 Office Manager 63I-747I Accent/Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Editor/Production 63I-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.I@nd.edu General Information 63I-747I Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD 
Spirituality should come before societal standards 
l went down to the ATL, Atlanta for those of you who don't know. I love Atlanta. Black people as far as the eye can see and I was loving it. Besides, what more can a young Black woman ask for?? I think I have found my future place of residence. 
Our trip to Atlanta was more than just a fun break in the sun -I was privi­leged enough to talk to some Black-cen­tered people there who have given me some new insights into the Black experi­ence and myself as well. While I was down there I heard about this Brother named Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf. 
Cristiane Likely 
"In the name of Allah, most benevo­lent, ever-merciful. All praise is due to Allah, Lord of the worlds, the Beneficent, the Merciful, Owner of the Day of Judgment. Thee alone we wor­ship and Thee alone we ask for help. Show us the straight path, the path of those whom Thou hast favoured, not the path of those who earn Thine anger nor of those who go astray." This is called the Fatiha. the opening chapter of the Holy Qur'an, the Holy Book for Muslims worldwide. 
The reason why I bring this up is to point out the importance of servitude to the All-Mighty to whom all Muslims must submit themselves which made its way to the public eye when a young Muslim Brother by the name of Mahmoud Abdui-Rauf refused to stand up for the United States National Anthem. 
Abdui-Rauf (formerly Chris Jackson) is a starter for the Denver Nuggets of the National Basketball Association and a devout Muslim. Over our spring break he was suspended by the NBA eggheads for not "paying respect" to this nation, the flag, and what it stands for. My immediate reaction was anger and dis­gust on the part of the NBA, and pride and respect for Abdul-Rauf. 
So rarely does one find someone strong enough in their beliefs to not allow popular opinion and culture to dictate one's actions and convictions. A few days later, he decided that he would stand along with his teammates and pray with open palms and bowed head to Allah while the rest of those in the Arena honored a nation and its flag. 
I fully understand what this Brother is going through. It is very difficult to try to maintain your religious/spiritual ide­ologies when they differ, if not contra­dict, the popular or majority religious systems. 
For example, I do not believe in "reli­gion," I believe in spirituality and com­mitment, submission, and-devotion to Allah (God), not to a "religion." 
I believe religions are man-made and I believe that if you humble yourself, and submit yourself only to the will of Allah, you will not fail. In the Qur'an 109, it says: "0 you unbelievers, I do not wor­ship what you worship, nor do you wor­ship who I worship, nor will I worship what you worship, now will you worship who I worship: to you your way, to me my way." 
I am not a Christian and I do not fol­low the tenets of Christianity,because Christianity honors the prophet Jesus the Christ more so than Allah, and I think that is wrong. Christianity also claims that Jesus of Nazareth was the son of God, and to me that is a dire~t insult to Allah because is giving human characteristics to Him, and that is not right either. 
Christianity and its numerous denomi­nations confuses me. How does one's life as a Baptist or a Methodist differ greatly than a Lutheran. It is incredibly hard for me to believe that God says that one must be a Episcopalian to go to Heaven! I think not. 
'Abdul-Rauf (formerly 
Chris Jackson) is a starter for the Denver Nuggets of the National Basketball Association and a devout Muslim. Over our spring break he was suspend­ed by the NBA eggheads for not "paying respect" to this nation, the flag, and what it stands for. My immediate reaction was anger and dis­gust on the part of the NBA, and pride and respect for Abdul-Rauf. So rarely does one find someone strong enough in their beliefs to not allow popular opinion and culture to dictate one's actions and convictions.' 
Am I a Muslim? Yes. I believe in the One-ness of God and the prophethood of Muhammed among other things. I also have been lucky enough to study with the 5 percent Nation of Gods & Earths and the Nation of Islam. They teach that Islam is a natural way of life, not a religion. 
I am not a member of Orth.odox Islam, nor am I a member of the Nation of Islam, but I do respect them both. I have found truth in some of the things they belief and I can apply them to my .own spiritual growth and development. 
Religion in these United States of America is a complicated thing. For the most part, most Americans are Judeo­Christians (Jews, Christians, Mormons, etc.) and for those of us who aren't we're seen as outcasts, weirdoes or nuts. 
At the Greenbriar Mall in Atlanta, I had the chance to talk to a Brother and a Sister from the Nation about our peo­ple, spirituality and Black liberation. I was trying to get a grasp on their rea­soning for joining the Nation and what kind of gratification they get out of it. Service to God through service to our people. I can dig that. 
I get a lot of criticism from a lot of people who don't know a single thing about me and I tend to ignore or disre­gard most of what they have to say. especially when they try to tell me that I believe something that I simply do not. 
Life and experience has taught me that you can not go wrong if you walk in the light of the path that Allah (God) has put forth for you and act accordingly. 
The object in life is not to have the most or the best, it is to ensure your place in Heaven. The opinions or con­demnations of others should be irrele­vant to you because no man, woman or child can get you to Heaven. 
I believe my path in life involves sup­porting the liberation of Black people in America. I can not see myself doing anything else. 
Spirituality is a powerful thing because it governs the life of millions of people every minute of every day. as it governs mine. One's spirituality should not contradict one's way of life, because spirituality is your way of life. Without it you'd be surely lost in the wilderness. 
Cristiane J. Likely is a senior in Pasquerilla West Hall. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
THAT~ rr'5 a/HAT P./13
50 GIECK. 7HI'3 OUT, 
50 CAU. CA5773< £6G
OKAY.? IF YOU ala<. 
At<!&-FUNC710NAL.ITY-A
ON O&NNIS ROI?MAN's 
50M&! /...ITTL£5URPRI5e
SN/3.AXCR'3, Hl'3 HAIR. 
FOR 7HOS& IN 77-fE
atAN6&'3 C:OLOR! 
I 1</VOt-fJ...
"'-.. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It has been said that 
Democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time." 
-Winston Churchhill 



VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 page 9 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Making the same mistake twice: 
Affirmative Action debate echoes historical errors 
Dear Editor, 
I would like to respond to Brian Fitzpatriek's article on Affirmative Action appearing in the March 8 issue of The Observer. Oncn again we have another young white American saying how rnueh he, along with evPryone else he knows, "wants to lwlp minorities." I'm sorry hut if this were the ease, Anu~rica would be a country fren of bigotry, prejudice and radsm. I don't know if it's just rnn, hut this dons not senm to he llw America that I live in. 
livnryday, the white ruling dass publicly daims to want to help all people, no matter what racn. Thny all make sure that tlwse statemnnts are heard by ollwrs in hopns of improving public relations. But what they "forget" to say aloud is that they are only willing to help as long as they are not personally afftH~tnd. In ollwr words, white Am n ric a ns btd i twe that non­whitn Arnnricans (I don't like to usn the Wrm minority because it only reinforees the status that whitns give to non-whites) pose no th rtHtt and are tolerable until one of them takes a job away from a member of the white ruling class. If this hap­pPns, tlwn Amnrica's white rul­ing dass will do something in clf(lt!r to stop them. This has occurred throughout the history of America. Blacks threatened to take away votes from the whites by utilizing their own rights to vote and sure enough the white population did some­thing to stop them. America shipped in cheap labor from Asia but as soon as the people from one country became pros­perous and began "taking away" jobs from "Americans," something was done to stop them: Immigration was made illegal for that particular coun­try's people. Then America "opened up its doors" to anoth­er country in order to extract its chflap labor. And the process began again. This is exactly what's going on in America today (i.e. prop. 187), and the list goes on and on. White Ameriea will allow non­whites as many rights as every­one ,else until th?.!r own "rights are taken away. 
Now that Affirmative Action has been abolished in some areas. all I can see is the white man once again declaring that he owns the country by taking away opportunities from the non-whites. One thing that I lind amusing is that during the debate among the University of California school officials over Affirmative Action, the Berkeley admissions office claimed that if admissions went race blind, they could p,asily fill the entire freshmen class with Asians. If this ever happened, white America would somehow label this as unfair and would have to exercise its power to win back its positions in the school. 
The people that are in charge of keeping this circle of giving and taking back freedoms are the same people that "want to help minorities." But in order to "help minorities," sacrifices must be made and those in power must make them. Is white America willing to make sacrifices just to allow people of all races to stand on the same ground as America's ruling class? I see Affirmative Action as the only vehicle to this end. Without it, people like Fitzpatrick simply talk of "help­ing minorities" in hopes that the problem will be forgotten before white America has to give anything up. Well, to tell you the truth white America, the problem will not disappear and be forgotten until some sort of action is taken on the part of all people, especially the ruling class. And taking away Affirmative Action, as many other things have been taken away from non-white Americans, only brings us back to chapter one in American his­tory. 
BRIAN BENDER Junior Flanner Hall 

Demanding discourse 
Dear Editor: 
I would like the opportunity to correct a few of the false impressions left by Maureen Hurley's front page stories (March 7 ,8) concerning the relationship between PinS and the Saint Mary's administration. When. Hurley called to ask if PinS had any opinion on the recent Ad Hoc Committee report on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, I said that we hadn't had a chance to discuss the matter yet and therefore had no opinion. Speaking for myself alone, I then expressed my personal disappointment that the committee had not cho­sen to recommend official recognition for GLND/SMC. and also my hope that the report would occasion more debate and perhaps some changes here. 
Needless to say, I was surprised at the next day's headline, "group rebukes lack of administrative aetion toward lesbian issues." I'm still not quite sure how any of my comments can be taken as a "rebuke;" certainly none was intended. Some of my best friends are Saint Mary's administrators; and, If only for their sake, let me form the entire conjugation; I did not rebuke, do not rebuke, will not rebuke. 
More disturbing, however, was the bellicose tone of both articles as a whole. The impression seemed to be that what had happened last year at ND (with GLND/SMC) was about to happen all over again here at Saint Mary's (with PinS). Such is simply not the case. I am reluctant to speak for a group (non-group?) as diverse, amorphous. and nuidly (un·, dis-) organized as PinS -especially after having, however inad­vertently, misrepresented them once before; but my sense is that our role Is primarily educational-through edueatlon. to promote tolerance and understanding. 
Although the issues we raise might be discomforting, if not controversial to some, our intent is not to be merely provoca­tive or confrontational. We have not "demanded" that tho Saint Mary's administration change any policy or officially recognize any group, least of all ours. What we do favor Is more discussion-in a word, discourse. Finally, there is (and never was) a forum scheduled for Thursday, March 21 at noon. 
MAXWESTLER 
Dcparrmcm of English 
Saint Mary's College 
Euthanasia violates the sanctity of human life 
Dear Editor: 
My patients are confused; an intelli­gent lawyer friend of mine is eonfused; and so I think that the publie must be confused too. My patients tc-~11 me that tlwy think Dr. Knvorkian is offering "dtHtth with dignity" and an end to pain and suffering, hut we physicians are already offering that. 
Wlwn my patients tell me of terrible sufl'ering or horrendous medical expens­t1s that one of thnir rfllatives has tmdurnd, I ask them, "Did your relative want to try to live or to die'?" The answer is always, "Well, lw (she) want­ed to live, hut if I'm in that position I want to he ahiP to die comfortably and not sufTtlr liko tlwy did." 
That. of eourse, is the point I want to make. Today, right now, any patient who doesn't want "lwroic life support" can insist on "lotting naturn take its c:our·sn." I havn seen this happen as a rlost! rtllativn and as a trtlating physi­cian. 
My father was "successfully" resusci­tated after a hnarl attack in a large, eity hospital while undnr the eare of one of my fritmds. After a eursory examination I found that my father was brain dead. Thn alltnuling physician had a brain perfusion tt!st done the next day and found that there was no circulation going to the brain any more. The brain had swollen from the interruption of blood during the heart attack, and now it was very doad from lack of oxygrm for the last twenty-four hours. A repeat test was done tlw next day for safety's sake. and within hours tlw nurse "pulltld the plug" while I and my two brotlwrs stood in the room to witnc~ss my father's last unassistcld hrtlaths. 
No fuss, no court ordnrs. no prolonged hospital stay, no horrendous bills. 
As a pathologist and nwdieal examiner I havo nwiownd nunwrous eharts from all tlw big hospitals in the city dose to our rural county. Thesn were charts of persons fatally injurml but surviving in thn hospital. Houtirwly, when the victims have lmconw brain dead, the treating doctors haVt! instituted humane procn­durns to makP sun~ of the death and thnn lutvt~ promptly disc~ontinued life­support systnms af'lnr· obtaining the fam­ily's pnrrnission. Barely dons this take morn than two days. 
About once a year I diagnose a patient with a fatal disease, and the patient tells nw that he doesn't want to prolong the agony with treatments and all the expense. I explain to him what to expeet, and that I will give him whatever and however much pain medication he nends. 
'Knowledge is power and 
practicing physicians have a monopoly on medical knowledge. That knowledge of medicine can be bought only with intense study in medical school, an intense residency and then years of patient man­agement and care. This responsibility for patient care teaches the physician how to convince the patient to endure diagnosis and then motivate the patient to accept the best treatment.' 
Invariably I receive a phone call or two during his final days from a relative. They tell me: "lie's not eating!" or "l-Ie's not drinking!" or "lie's just wasting away!" I explain to them how this is nature's way of weakening the patient so thatlw will die sooner, and so that he will feel less pain as he slowly becomes obtunded. I offer the relative advice, encouragement and consolation. The patient dies easily, comfortably and with little expense. 
These relatives are some of the most caring and brave people I have met. They also have the satisfaction of know­ing that they have "eared to the end" when they bury their loved one. Usually other family members pitch in and assist during the last week or two. It is touch­ing, healing for the grieving family, and it brings the family together. 
When I explain this to patients they then start wondering what the Kevorkian option is anyway. And why is 
it needed? 
Simply put, it is murder unopposed by the victim, and it is unneeded. In fact, it is one more deviation from a philosophy that holds human life sacred, to a phi­losophy that deigns human life to be no more valuable than animal life. I say one more deviation because the first depar­ture was the acceptance of abortion. 
This philosophy of human sanctity was expressed 2,400 years ago by the famous father of medicine, Hippocrates. His Hippocratic oath has served as the guide of medical ethics in Western cul­ture since then. Concerning suicide it states, "To please no one will I prescribe a deadly drug, nor give advice which may cause his death." 
The Christian and Jewish religions condemn assisting a person who wants to kill himself since they condemn sui­cide itself. 
Our culture's traditions are its collec­tive memory, a memory that spans liter­ally thousands of years. If for no other reason than practical ones thfl traditions should not be discarded lightly. 
But there are plain, easily seen rea­sons to keep unopposed patient murder from the realm of medicine. Physicians are too powerful to be given this new "therapeutic modality." 
You see, knowledge is power and practicing physicians have a monopoly on medical knowledge. That knowledge of the practice of medicine can be bought only with four years of intense 80 hour per week or more study in med­ical school, two to eight years of an intense 80 to 100 hour per week resi­dency and then a few more years of individual patient management and· care. This sole responsibility for patient care teaches the physician how to devel­op patient trust, convince the patient to endure the expense and misery of diag­nosis, and then motivate the patient to accept the best treatment. 
Only physicians pay the price to secure that knowledge, and therefore they alone have a monopoly on that power. The power acquires trust. 
A patient must trust his doctor. That became intimately clear to me when I needed surgery by a specialist. I didn't have five years to learn his field thor­oughly enough so that I could have the knowledge of all the ramifications of my problem. In the stillness of the night before surgery I eame to recognize that my trust in his knowledge and integrity was the sole reason I would surrender my body to his surgery. 
If a physician has his own agenda to fulfill, he can convince his patient to ful­fill it for him. With this trust underpin­ning the doctor he can withhold infor­mation, emphasize one facet of informa­tion over another, skillfully discern the patient's emotions and direct them in the paths the physician wants to go. When the final desired therapeutic effect is death, no patient will or can complain about the outcome. 
As a physician I am alarmed to see the news media essentially promoting unop­posed murder while Michigan's test ease is being handled by a prosecutor and judge who seem sympathetic to the per­petrator. Polls show the public favoring this innovation; as far as I can tell, the public doesn't even understand it. 
If unopposed murder is legalized where must it lead'? We need only to look to the Netherlands where it is esti­mated that thousands are put to death each year without their consent and almost certainly against their desires in addition to the tens of thousands who succumb to the pressures of family and the establishment. Remember that a person who is sick succumbs to pressure much more quickly than a person who is healthy. 
What will it do to the essential doctor­patient relationship of trust'? Can you trust a doctor who will have pressure from your heirs to conserve the estate, pressure to contain costs for the govern­ment, for insurance companies and for the hospital? Will you be able to trust him when you know he is allowed and maybe encouraged to convince you to ask for an "assisted suicide?" 
Our society has already taken one step from the tried and true by legalizing abortion. We should be retracing our steps to protect human life, not straying still further by legalizing the first step toward euthanasia. 
We physicians already assist you in death. Don't give us the power to assist you in murder. 
RONALD E. GRAESER,D.O. 
,----------------~~-----------------,------------------------------------~------------------------------------~------------~----------~-, 
f 



ACCE,NT
page 10 
• AccENT Asocs••• 
If you could be any athlete, who would you be? 

"Jim Courier--'cause he's a hard hitter, just like me." 
Theo Suwandana Sophomore, Grace 
"Magic Johnson because he's inspiring to people." 
Lisa Kolodny Freshman, Lyons 


"Michael Jordan because I wanna be like Mike ...MIKE!" 
Ryan Christman Sophomore, Keenan 
"Rebecca Lobo. At UConn they went 35-0 and won the NCAA Women's Basketball Tournament." 
Angie Kaufmann Sophomore, McCandless 


"Dennis Rodman because we have matching tatoos." 
Trish Huey Junior, Holy Cross 
"Eddie the Eagle because ski-jumping's cool!" 
Scott Palumbo Senior, Morrissey 

Wednesday, March 20, 1996 
'Ghost of. Chance' exami 
By BRYCE SEKI Accent Literary Critic 
I
t's quite 
amazing that at 82 years of age William S. Burroughs is still producing new work. The man famous for his outrageous novels, "Naked Lunch" and "Junky," brings us his newest piece, "Ghost of Chance," a work very indicative of the crazy 
...,..._...........M.___"""".....,....___""""'---'..;.:..;...;:.;....J~-.. Burroughs style. 
Not always the easiest writer to read, Burroughs uses "Ghost of Chance" to form a middle ground between the drug induced bizarre and the intellec­tual style that he has made famous. There is no doubt that Burroughs is demonstrating his genius, however at times it ap­pears that one must be a genius to understand his writing. 
At first reading, "Ghost of Chance" appears to be the basic Burroughs novel. A lot of drugs, his paranoia, and lots of guns. It's best explained by breaking the story into three distinct parts. In the first part we are introduced to Captain Mission, a man in search of the great lemur in the jungles of Madagascar. Mission, a shot gun-toting, drug-loving adventurer discovers a museum of lost species and befriends a lemur, whom he affectionatly names "Ghost." It is here where drugs and guns are highlighted. With great accuracy, many diffe described including Yage, a dru of in Tangiers, resulting in "T t!)rs to Allen Ginsberg which takes great pride in demonst The story flows well in this fi exploits. 
However, in the second secti Completely getting away from t Burroughs turns "Ghost of Cha His treatment of Christ is do make a person of any deno Burroughs pulls no punches a gious leader. This display of p ing, even from one as wild as BL The third and final section spiritual leader of Punk Rock all presents us with the many dise humans intervention in the Mu most lethal of which is what he 
Much like the discussion in t read it to feel its bitter tones. develops to kill off mankind are The Roots and The Hairs, the Ia growth both inside and outside suffocation. Burroughs' imagi very descriptive and literary wa 
What is most interesting abo neath all the shock and madn Burroughs' is telling a story ab ronment. 
"Ghost of Chance" is a call fo what we are doing to our surr only through William S. Burro realize the importance of pres an interesting book. Burroughs 
Overl50 years of mus· 
By MIKE JACCARINO 
Accent Writer 
S
ixty-two musicians have rendezvoused for the night on stage; and up here holding tickets and sodas in the seats, among music experts and village composers we miss oh so much. Their companionship goes unnoticed, the night and days spent together on the road are missed, the 149 coming before them are forgotten. 
Up here the people just listen and watch when the music heard is only the binding glue for these sixty­two instrument wielders, playing hard on their wind. sheep-skinned, and brass tools. and holding togeth­er for so many the family and memories that play along with them on stage, unseen. 
In the 150 years since Father Sorin initiated a music program at Notre Dame, a medley of varied music has been played by a crowd of different people, before a slew of audiences in countless venues; but maybe what it all comes down to is just the number of people feeling tender, having memories arise when the Concert Band plays. Its about what the music means to so many. "Its like an unbroken string of people going all the way back to 1845 and I don't think this 150th year comemeration honors just the band but also the people that were part of it," says Dr. Luther Snavely who conducts the band along with James Phillips and Father George Wiskirchen CSC. 
"We all love what we're doing and that brings us together as a family. It never leaves you-you always 1 remember," says Robert O'Brien, a retired conductor of thirty-three years. Unable to shake his familial description of the band members, past and present, you begin to hear the conversation of their instru­ments on stage like a family talking something over: The petite, childlike hum of a flute; the paternal roar 
of the trombone; the remorseful, elderly grumble of the tuba. Says Father George, "They are defin family of people-musically and personally whether the kids are sightseeing, shooting hoops or pi their instruments...and they definitely complement each other." With his words echoing in your min as O'Brien's did, you can hear the distinct sound of their individual instruments chiming in togethe adding to each other's own music as they add to each other in life, sharing their qualities and their experiences. 




ACCENT
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 page 11 
~es the darker side of life 
~nnl 
mind nnhanring drugs arn g Burroughs himst~lf wnnl in search 111 Yagn l.ellnrs," a sPiection of lnl­wnrn Ialor puhlislwd. Burroughs aling his knowlt~dge of narcotics. ·st section, as we follow Mission's 
111 tho story lakns a drastic change. lw story of Mission and thn lemurs, ~t:n" into his dissertation on Christ. n-right blasphemous and would uination cringn at reading it. d takns his best shots at the reli­
w angnr and spit•~ is quite shock­rroughs. 
•gins 
with morn ranting from the d tlw Bt~al Cnrwralion. Burroughs tsns that wt~rt~ unlnashed from the 

•tun 
of' Lost Spndns. The first and ails tlw "Christ Disnase." e serond seetion, orw really has to >tlwr disnasns in which Burroughs Hnd Spidnr Fnvnr. l'laguns of' Mad, ·t of which involves incrndibln hair of tlw body, n~sulting in death by talion is twisted and evil. but in a 


l "Chost of' Chance" is that undnr­ss, is an important lesson for all. 1ut human destruction of the envi­
· all pnopl•~ to stop and think about IUIHiings. Who knows? Maybe it is ,rghs' apocalyptic talt~ that we will Irving naturn. "(;host of Chance" is is an intPrt~sling intdlt~ct. 

I tt 


c, memortes, ond magic 
Tlw Coru:nrt Band nwmbers cnrtainly have Limn to dPvelop as a family during Spring Break which tlwy annually SJlf'nd travelling on an annual eleven day hus tour, eonsisting of eltwen stops and eleven pPrformarH'PS, culminating in the final perfor­mant'P on Notn• Danw's campus. "We all hung out togPlllf'r during tlw tour like brothers and sisters. It was I i kP travf'l ing with a family on the road,"says .Junior clarinN player Melanie Bean, n•nH'lllhnring LIH~ rncPnt days past, memories tak­ing llf'r from South lwnd to the Atlantic Ocean. 
.lanws Phillips has bnnn taknn a littlt~ farther as t)\1' Sound of tlH• band's five l1utes, thirteen clar­inf'ls, two ohoPs, onn bassoon, four saxes, ten trumpPts, eight horns, six trombones, three tubas, and six pPn:ussion instrumnnts are as familiar as thirty-tlm~n ynars with the band can make it. Playing and molding tlw music of this chorus of instrumnnts represents a "labor of love" for Phillips, who talks of the individual sound and sub­tiP trails each ynar's musicians will acquire as a group ovnr the course of the year. But its more than just sound, instruments, and music for the 


laboring Phillips as he talks of how the years are 
hnginning to smiln back at him in children's faces whose parents were his one-time band mates. "Its 
ahout. working with pnople and the relationships I've made. l can't think of doing anything .. .I'd like to 
win thn loltf~ry but until then I'll be right here," says Phillips. The school's alumni weren't able to stay as Phillips did and thny miss that music that used to mean so much to them and is playml at each performancn of the concert band: Hike Notrn Dame, the Alma Mater, and the Victory Mard1. Its the music old alumni love, like Cyril DevliHgher of the dass of 62 who says the musk, "Brings back that youthful outlook on lifn I had at Notre Dame, harking me back to those eollegH days. That's why people play old music-to remember." As he finishes you understand that the band doesn't just offer alumni a chance to listen to old favoritHs but more poignant­ly, to evoke memories of old loves and college classmates whose faces have vanished under the blanket of time. That blanket is being removed from the eyes of an old alumni sitting sitting up here, alone, shrouded in the dark­ness covering the audience and conducting the music with his hands to an invisible orchestra in the distance. No one notices as he turns to face the guy beside him, just as no one notices the family and memories playing on stage. "I espe­cially like this one," he says; and no one knows if he's refer­ring to the song whose familiar notes are bning played, this year's band because he's heard so many before or the family he's starting to think he's a part of as he closes his eyes, lis­lens and believes. 

• ACCENT SPEAKS••• 
March Madness hoops it up 
By KRISTIN TRABUCCO Assistant Accent Editor 
The Super Bowl. The Stanley Cup. The Indy 500. The NBA Championship. The World Series. The Hose Bowl. These are the greatest accomplishments in the world of athletics. These are the contests which bring avid fans and casual observers alike together for their viewing pleasure. Parties and get­togethers center around them, bets are made on them, certain beverages are consumed during them -they are major social events. And certainly deserving of its place among these great events is the NCAA men's basketball tournament, to some, the best of them all. 
Each March, basketball fans, or even just the curious by­stander, camp out in front of their television sots to watch the best of the best in college basketball compete for the title of National Champions. We laugh, we cry, we throw furniture­but we are also held in awe as Georgetown's Allen Iverson has a great dunk or UConn's Doron Sheffer throws down thirty. It's a magical, mystical experience, filled with excitement and suspense. 
The tournament is not called "March Madness" for nothing. Friends. family members, roommates. or even complete strangers get into arguments at tourney time over who has the best players. teams, coaches, and uniforms -anything and everything is a potential disagreement. Everyone has "their team," destined to win the six games that stand be­tween them and the championship. Be it their alma mater or a hometown favorite, each fan picks a team to follow. to root for, to say. "This is the year we go all the way." Most never get that far, but it's not from lack of support in the hearts of their loyal followers. 
My own personal favorite, Pitt, had not been to the NCAA for a few years, but at the beginning of each season, with each new crop of freshmen, the dream of the tournament comes alive. Even if our team doesn't make it, we continue, loyally rooting against our team's rivals. 
When it comes to college sports, my motto remains, "My two favorite teams: Pitt and whoever plays Penn State." And I would bet that many of the few who correctly predicted Arkansas to beat Penn State in this year's tournament were Pitt fans. 
Hivalries and hatreds run deep, as Duke fans demonstrated this year as they became staunch New Orleans fans, even if they had never seen the team play before, and pleaded and prayed feverishly, "Please, please make UNClose." Unfortunately for New Orleans, they didn't. But that is what the tournament is all about: one team wins, and one team must lose. The beauty of it is that no win is guamnteed. 
One of the most exeiting and notorious facets of the NCAA tournament are the infamous "upsets." These arc tho teams no one ever thought could win, and yet they do. Who could forget when, last year, Manhattan heat Oklahoma and Weber State beat Michigan State? Or when, last week, Princeton beat defending champion UCLA'? The upset is what makes the tour­nament interesting; if it was all in the seedings. we wouldn't have to watch the games to know who won the championship. These "giant killers" often are selected from the so-ealled "bubble teams"-teams who have to wait until the tourna­ment schedule comes out to find out if they IU't~ in or not. Surprises abound here -like Jerry Tarkanian's Fresno State team or Minnesota boing loft out. Selection timtl ean be one for celebration or disappointment, but it is always a time to expect the unexpected. 
These are the factors one must consider when participating in one of the most widely popular parts of March Madness ­the NCAA tournament "for amusement purposes only" pool. Get a bunch of your fritmds togethHr, piek your teams or play­ers, and see who is right and who won't have beer money this month. 
But be forewarned, tournament pools have been known to cause some side effects. Friendships may be tested as onA responds affirmatively to the other's question, "You wouldn't really take my beer money, would you'?" And tournament watchers have a tendency to become CNN sports ticker junkies, watching the scores displayed at the bottom of the screen over and over again, hoping to get the latest develop­ments. 
Some pool participants go through a grueling process of analyzing slats and tabulating the best picks, while others do the ''I've heard of this team so I'll pick it" method. However you do it, tournament pool are part of what makes March Madness so much fun. 
And that's what it is: pure fun. It's the thrills, the excite­ment. and the camaraderie of sitting around watching 63 games (or as many of them as humanly possible). It's wutc:h­ing college basketball's greatest players battle it out. It's greeting everyone you know with, "Hey, who are your picks for the Final Four?" It's tournament time -and it's not the NIT. 


Wednesday, March 20, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
•NBA 
Rodman says 'I was wrong' 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Dennis Rodman apologized today for the antics that cost him a six-game suspension without pay plus a $20,000 fine, and deprived the Chicago Bulls of his services just when they could have used him the most. 
"To Chicago Bulls fans and my teammates, I want to pub­licly apologize for my actions on Saturday," Rodman said in a statement. 
"I was wrong in making con­tact with any NBA official and I deserve to be punished for my actions, although I do believe they (the sanctions) were se­vere. I realize NBA referees are doing their job and it's my job to respect them and the rules of the game and not put my team­mates in jeopardy." 
"I realize I let them down and my sole aim is to bring a cham­pionship back to Chicago." 
Rodman, the NBA's resident loose cannon, had a monumen­tal tantrum Saturday in East Rutherford, N.J., during a game with the Nets. He head-butted referee Ted Bernhardt, knocked over a cooler, stripped off his jersey and shouted ob­scenities before leaving the court. 
The NBA, whose file on Rodman must now be as thick as a city phone book, said it im­posed the severe punishment Monday to let players know that such boorish behavior will not be tolerated. 
"The suspension and fine re­flect not only the head-butting, but the totality of his actions on the court," said NBA vice pres­ident Rod Thorn, who saw the tirade in person. "Physical as­saults on referees cannot and will not be tolerated under any circumstances." 
Rodman emerged from his Philadelphia hotel room a half hour before the start of the Bulls game with the 76ers, but declined to comment on the suspension. Without Rodman, Chicago struggled before win­ning 98-94. 
The Bulls have tolerated Rodman's free-spirited behav­ior and dyed hair because of what he brings to the court. 
Sports Illustrated magazine recently called him the best re­bounder for his size in NBA his­tory, and he currently leads the NBA with an average of 15.1 rebounds. 
But Michael Jordan hinted that the team's patience is wearing thin. The Bulls super­star said Rodman's image is getting in the way of Chicago's goal of winning a title and be­coming the first NBA team to record 70 regular-season wins. 

"A lot of what you see in Dennis is his image and per­sona," Jordan said. "He has continued to feed off that, and that's very dangerous to this team's success." 
The Bulls, Jordan said, "were a·sked to absorb his whole repertoire, his skills as well as ... his image, and we did that." 
In return, Rodman played within the system, up until now. 
"No matter how you look at it, if he wants to be a part of this team, he's going to have to be there when we really need him," Jordan said. "Right now, he's not there when we need him." 
Coach Phil Jackson said he will "probably weep a little bit about" the suspension, but he also criticized Rodman's inabil­ity to control his emotions on the court. 
"I know he doesn't feel like it and he doesn't want to feel put upon, but he's got some re­sponsibility now to the rest of us," Jackson said. 
Three days he lost his WBC heavyweight title to Mike Tyson, the British fighter said Tuesday he was interested in taking up Don King's offer to set him up with a challenge to another world champion. 
"My dream has always been to retire from boxing in front of a home crowd, a winner rather than a loser;' Bruno told the Sun tabloid. "There are many things to consider. But any report that I have quit is pure fiction. I have no con­crete plans. 
''King's offer is a serious one and I will be giving it a lot of thought. ft would be one of the other versions of the title." 
Bruce Seldon holds the WBA title but seems headed for a unification fight with Tyson, South Africa's Frans Botha is IBF champion and Riddick Bowe holds the WBO crown. 
·==:',%::~:···· 

J4~.1'nt!l.u.vl~~ would be a chal­to countrymen Scott who holds the British, F.li,.rtn'ifln. and Commonwealth 
ties. or Lennox Lewis. who beat Bruno in a WBC title de­fense in 1993 and, as the No. 1 mandatory challenger. has been promised a shot at Tyson around September. 
Welch said he welcomed a fight against Bruno but Lewis' camp seemed split over a re­match. 
Frank Maloney, Lewis' man­ager, said it would be a back­ward step for his fighter, who won in seven rounds in Cardiff. 
"Unless the money is so good that he could not refuse it, I can't see him wanting to take that fight again, knowing how it ended last time and seeing the sort of performance Bruno put up at the weekend. 
"Bruno has nowhere to go now in the heavyweight divi­sion," Maloney said. 
Panos Eliades, who promotes Lewis' fights, saw one way the two fighters could wind up in the same ring for a world title contest. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
..  NOTICES  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up  Waterfront Condos 1 Bedrooms from $52,000  The Top Eleven Lines from the Key West Adventure:  Attention -Class of 1998..  Top Five Quotes from Panama City  
to $3,000-$6,000+ per month.  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  11. Room Number! Room Number!  1 . I passed out hardcore  
NAZZ 1996!!!  Room and Board! Transportation!  New Decor  10. ltalia, ltalia, ltalia, ltalia  Help us be your voice ...  2. So.. .You came to Panama City  
Battle of the Campus Bands  Male or Female. No experience  EVERYTHING included  9. Don't worry, I won't touch you.  Applications for the 1996-97  tor spring break  
necessary. Call (206)971-3510  Close to Notre Dame  8. Bud-weiser  Junior Class Council are  3. Nut-he's got a hard head  
Stamper Bob & the 4X4's -George  extA55844  BEAUTIFUL!  7. These guys are such darks!  available for pick-up in the  4. Vart  
and the F reeks -Reverend  NORTH SHORE CLUB  6. You're definitely a commodity.  Student Government Office  5. Hole in the back of your throat  
Funk -Los Catatonics -Sabor  REWARDING SUMMER JOB­ 232-2002  5. Whoa, we're halfway there!  (2nd floor LaFortune).  
Latino -Cod in Salsa -Emily Lord ­ Orlando, FL-residential camp serv­ 4. Shell Shack Baby!  Make sure to wish  
Hace Frio -Tacklebox -Tweak ­ ing developmentally disabled hiring  3. You're wearing blue, I'm wearing  Applications due: 3-20-96  
Luster-emiLy  counselors 18+. Live and work on  Mac Powerbook Duo 230 w/dock,  blue ....  Dominic Christopher Dominello  
wooded, lakefront preserve. Salary  230 MG HD, 8 RAM, 14in. color  2. If you don't leave soon, I'll have  GRIFFIN • FREEDY  
Thursday, March 21  plus room, board & extras 6/9-8/17.  monitor, Multimedia kit, ext. soft­ to hook up with you!  NOLAN • STRONSKY  a happy 21st birthday today!!  
8 pm @ Stepan  Ca/1407-889-8088 for application.  ware incl. $2200, call 234-2766  1. If all else fails, GO SOUTH!  "The Voice of 98"  
Dumpy will never regain the crown!!  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  **"'*"'**** 5 A ************  ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE  
Positions are now available at  Needed! $$$+Free Travel  PC SYSTEM FOR SALE  Happily married, well-educated cou­ Be sure to come to the JACC pit  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  Packard Bell 486 Desktop  I'm aksin' y'all. ........... .  ple will give your baby a loving,  tonight at 8:00 to cheer for Ryan  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper.  Computer, Monitor, Printer, Internal  stimulating, financially secure  Gee as he becomes the next varsity  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398  Modem, and all accesories.  CAN YOU GET IN WERE YOU FIT  home. Confidential, legal, expenses  Leprechaun!!  
ext.N55846  extC1114  Windows 3.0 and many other pro­ IN, B%.#@?!?  paid. Call Joni $ Shep 800-528­ 
grams. Asking $795.00 -289-9508  Love,  2344  Love those Cross eyed Girls!!!  
The Michiana Paintball Club now has an Indoor Paintball field in  FOR RENT  Shorty  Join us for the annual "Keeping the  ... Justins in the bathroom hooking  
South Bend -Free membership.  Got Pac-Man Fever? Arcade size  JUNIORS!!  Faith" Series. This year's topic is  up with Satan­ 
291-9462  ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE  Ms. Pac-Man game for sale.  Next Tuesday, join us for a trip to  To Pray and To Serve: Both Sides  
HOME.  Perfect for any dorm or apartment.  see the Pacers play the Celtics in  of the Catholic Coin.  Post up clinic  
·.  Junior Business Majors ­Student Business Board is now  VERY CLOSE TO ND. IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS.  Call Greg at 277-9499.  Indianapolis! Tickets are only $25 and are on sale at the LaFortune  Thursday, March 21 & Sunday, March 24. 7 -8:30 pm in the  Stepan center 8:00 Given by J. O'sullivan  
interviewing for the General  272-6194.  Info. Desk. Transportation is pro­ Stanford -Keenan chapel.  
Manager position for next year. Drop off your resume at Student  Studio apartment in private home,  PERSONAL  vided. Call1-5117 with any ques­tions.  ... and you really have to pee ... BUT  Nick "the Animal" Steele blocked my shot  
Gov. office by Friday.  available June 1 . Quiet neighbor­ THERE'S NO SINK! (and a cup is  
hood near Notre Dame. $375/mo.  Scott Baczek, my friend, is a most  just unsanitary ... )  can't wait to see the new haircut!!  
The  Phone 631-6072 days,  05/17  righteous dude -as he would say ...  no slacking this weekend  
GAELIC FESTIVAL  273-1751 evenings.  03/19  ... and you're lying there, crushed  
is Coming!  0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0  Smelly families,  against a wall, and all of sudden ...  the tour of south bend was exciting;  
ILOST & FOUND I  5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys, refrig, stove, partially furnished. Heat incl. Completely remodeled.  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  Smelly families, What don't they feed you?  you have to you can't laugh.  lucky the black cat didn't interfere with my 6th sense  
606 N. St. Peter.  Phone 631-COPY  Smelly families,  i'll buy the phone cord clippers if  
..LOST..  289-5999 or 255-9471  0D0D0D0D0D000D0D0D0D0  Smelly families,  Happy 21st Sueeeeeeeeeeeee ...  you get the muzzle  
A forest green L. L.Bean wool coat  Mark Kramer.  It's not your fault,  Let the debauchery begin!  
at Bridget's on 3/7. If found please  "Ziggy played tor time, jiving us  or is it?  Love,  
call Colleen at 4-2357!  5 BR; 605 St Peter  that we were voodoo  Liz and Cathy  Panch or Fred,  
$925/mo 232-2595  The kids were just crass,  Only one border light? PC, you're a  I can't decide who to choose.  
FOUND: calculator in the lockers in  he was the NAZZ  cheap date ....  Adam,  Love,  
NSH, most likely tor ChemLab. Call X2061 to identity.  FOR SALE  With the God given ass He took it all too far but boy could  I really don't mind losing a bet like  Too bad you're not 21 ....  Meg han  
he play guitar"  that anyway ..... .  13 days  
LOST: a silver pin with the  1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., by owner,  Paul or Silk,  
enscribed word: BELIEVE. This  immaculate, two full baths, garage,  You too can be the NAZZ  you cannot say "Excuse me." it's  I can't decide who to choose.  
piece of jewelery has much senti­ finished lower level, walk to ND,  -or at least be at NAZZ  so inappropriate. it happens.  The farting bush reeks.  Love,  
mental meaning. Please call Kerry  range, dishwasher, microwave,  8pm March 21 -Stepan  Michael  
at 4-2493 if found. Thanks.  refrigerator, washer/dryer, garage  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ 
WANTED  door opener, $77,900, ph. 277-8898  If I had a million dollars, what band would I bring to campus? Watch for more details coming  rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security.  I thought I was worth more than that... ...  linda does NOT have the sweatshirt  
ATIENTION SOUTH QUAD WOMEN: City News Service is now  83 New Yorker auto 11 OK miles runs well $900 Call X18220  soon. Brought to you by SUB.  Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  The lovely Rita or Kristi? Perhaps they'll both be at club tonight!  Tim-Bowling is a cruel punishment for an unsuspecting date.  
hiring newspaper carriers to deliver  93 Honda Accord LX 4Dr., only  DAVID- Confidential.  Last Chance!!  Just so everybody knows ...  
to dorms in your area. Work 1 hr each morning, make $45 per week.  17K miles, supper condition like new, factory warranty, $13,700,  WE WISH YOU ALL THE BEST AT THE LEPRECHAUN  To the girl at NOH thanks for clean­ Bookstore XXV Sign-Ups Wed. and Thurs.  Fred is not stalking me.  
Should have a bike. Ex. possibility for advancement. Call Joe at 4­ call 272-8696  TRYOUTS TONIGHT !I YOU KNOW WE'RE BEHIND YOU ALL  ing up my milk  Lafortune 11-2 p.m. 6-9 p.m. Don't Miss Out!!  Meghan, As always, it was a pleasure work­ 
1680 WANTED: Good people to earn  JUDAY CREEK gem. Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch with a 17 x 25 home office & 3-car garage.  THE WAY-MAKE YOUR FINAL DREAM COME TRUE!! GOOD LUCK, GOD BLESS AND GO IRISH!!  May the Sacred Heart of Jesus be adored, glorified, loved and pre­served throughout the world now and forever. Sacred Heart of Jesus  $13 (See Inside Column)  ing with you. I look forward to next Tuesday. M.D.  
money by becoming reps for EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 299-1999 evenings.  5 minutes to ND. REDUCED TO $149,500 Call Karen 272-3653.  LOVE ALWAYS­MOM, DAD, DAN AND MICHELLE  have mercy on us. St. Jude worker of miracles pray tor us. St. Jude helper of the hapless pray for us.  Dante-Where have you been? Jillian Marie  Craig, "What up, dog. I love you." -Fred  


Wcdnesay, March 20, 19% 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
•NCAA 

FSU avoids serious penalties 
Photo courtesy of Florida State Sports Information 
Bobby Bowden and FSU avoided any serious NCAA sanctions. 
By BRENT KALLESTAD Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, ria. 
Florida State won another big one today, escaping serious NCAA penalties following a three-year probe that began af­ter a much-publicized shopping spree by Seminoles football players. 
The NCAA imposed a one­year probation on the football program for failing to properly monitor the activities of prospectivP. sports agents on its campus. However, there was no ban on postseason play, no TV appearance ban and no lost scholarships. 
The probation was effective Feb. 3, the date school officials met with the NCAA Committee on Infractions. The NCAA also warned Florida State that it must avoid another major rules violation for five years or face further action. 
Football coach Bobby Bowden was not immediately available for comment. FSU president Talbot "Sandy" D' Alemberte 

Because all-nighters arent always spent in the librarY. 


It's everywhere you want to be 
Cl VIU U 8 A. ln.: )Q99 
and athletic director Dave Hart 
scheduled an afternoon news 
conference to respond to deci­
sion. 
In 1993, a group of sports agents took several Florida State football players on a $6,000 shopping spree at a lo­cal Foot Locker sporting goods store. The incident prompted the NCAA investigation. 
The NCAA praised the action taken by Florida State officials in responding to its compliance problems, which came to light in an article in Sports Illustrated in May 1994. 
In addition to the probation, the NCAA publicly reprimanded and censured Florida State for the violations and ordered the school to develop a more thor­ough athletics compliance edu­cation program and recertify its current policies and practices. 
The infractions committee, comprised of five university fac­ulty, a retired attorney and one practicing attorney from across the country, found four major violations of NCAA rules by !'lorida State -all related to institutional control of the uni­
versity's athletics program. 
"Had the institution taken ap­
propriate action and reviewed 
the information, it might have 
prevented and at least detected 
earlier the violations," the 
NCAA said. "The institution 
also failed to take suflicient ac­
tions to investigative possible 
violations." 
The NCAA said Florida State 
failed to properly follow up on a 
report from a football dormi­
tory supervisor who had re­
ported seeing agents around 
the players, particularly on 
game weekends. 
The committee also said the 
school and Atlantic Coast 
Conference should have inves­
tigated further a signed agency 
contraet with a player who had 
one year of eligibility remain­
ing. Both concluded there was 
insufficient evidence to find a 
violation of NCAA rules. 
A third violation surrounded 
the failure of the school's for­
mer compliance director to act 
on a report from a Florida State 
student that several football 
players took part in a shopping 
spree at a local Foot Locker 
shoe store paid for by agents. 
The fourth violation was the failure of a former football coach to report a telephone call from an agent who lived in Tallahassee and knew of con­tact with a Seminole player. 
Florida State paid a Kansas City law firm almost $500,000 to conduct an internal investi­gation into the shopping spree and additional allegations in­volving the activities of unli­censed sports agents. 
In its official Jetter of inquiry released in January, NCAA of­ficials sought more information about the agents' activity around the football dormitory from late 1992 to January 1994 and the failure of the proper authorities being informed. 
Although the NCAA enforce­ment staff reported no major violations or lack of institution­al control in January, its report revealed the infractions com­mittee's concern about Florida State's failures. 
Please Recycle the Observer 
EUROPE 
LONDON $219 PARIS $229 ROME $309 FRANHFURT $229 
Fa1esa1e flomlndlanapolis.eachwa~basedonaRTputchasefares donollncludefedelaltaxesandpassengelfaciiiNeschalges. which cantotalbetweenS19.9SandS!l9S.dependingonthedestlnaNon. no1 do the~ Include depa1ture cha1gespald di1ect1q to to fuleign gov­emments. which can total between $3.00 and SGO.OO.Int IStudent 10 maq be 1equl1ed. fates are suject to change Rest1icNons applq Yalid Jot depa1tu1es befole 31 Hateh 1996 
Europ~SSfrom$210 
Travel 


~~~~~~~~ 
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange 
On the Web: ht~://www.ciee.org/cls/ctshome.htm 
1-800-2-COUNCI~ 
[1-B00-22G-BG24] 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NBA
r 
Scott breaks mark, Magic rolls 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
Dennis Scott broke the NBA record for 3-pointers in a sea­son and Horace Grant scored 26 for the second straight game as Orlando remained unbeaten at home Tuesday night with a 113-91 victory over Detroit. 
The Pistons' five-game win­ning streak ended with coach Doug Collins and his players walking off the floor with just under one second remaining. 
Orlando's Anthony Bowie grabbed a rebound and called timeout with 2.7 seconds left to give himself a chance for his first triple-double. The Detroit coaching staff waved the Pistons to the side of the floor and allowed the Magic to in­bound the ball nearly the length of the court to Bowie, who passed to David Vaughn for a dunk. 
Bowie, starting in place of the injured Nick Anderson, finished with 20 points, 10 rebounds and 10 assists. Orlando coach Brian Hill apologized for the incident after the game. 
Reserve Brooks Thompson scored a team-record 21 points in the fourth quarter for the Magic, who improved to 33-0 at home with its NBA-record 40th consecutive regular-season vic­tory at Orlando Arena. 
Lindsey Hunter led Detroit with 15 points. Allan Houston had 14 and Grant Hill 12 for the Pistons, who limited Orlando's Shaquille O'Neal to a season-low 10 points on 4-for­13 shooting. 
Scott also had a subpar game for the Magic, finishing with eight, but he broke the 3-point record he shared with New York's John Starks with his 218th trey of the season in the final minute of the opening quarter. 
O'Neal had nearly as many fouls (three) as points (four) at the half and Orlando led 41-37 at the break despite not shoot­ing any free throws and missing eight of nine 3-pointers. 
Grant had six points and Scott made a 3-pointer in an 11-0 run that put the Magic up 64­47 midway through the third quarter. Orlando built the ad­vantage to 24 early in the last period and the closest Detroit got the rest of the way was 17. 
Notes: The Pistons began the night 10 games over .500, the highest they've been above the break-even point at this stage of the season since 1991-92 ... After giving up nearly 106 points per game last season, Detroit is yieldingjust under 93 
·this year -the second-best mark in the NBA ... Orlando, averaging more than 109 points per game since the All-Star break, was held to 19 in the first quarter. It was the 89th time Detroit has limited an opponent to 20 or less in a pe­riod. That compares with 51 all of last season.... Jeff Turner, who retired after Orlando trad­ed him to Vancouver last month, joined the Magic's radio broadcast team Tuesday night. 
Charlotte 102 Indiana 94 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Larry Johnson had another strong all-around showing Tuesday night for the Charlotte Hornets to help them defeat the Indiana Pacers 102-94 and complete a perfect four-game homestand. 
Johnson had 10 points, eight rebounds and a career-high 14 assists. He entered the night averaging 25 points, nine as­sists and seven rebounds over the previous five games. 
The Hornets have won five of their last six games and have gone from percentage points behind Miami for the eighth and final Eastern Conference playoff spot to a 1 1/2-game lead over the Heat. 

Glen Rice scored 23 for Charlotte, which broke a four­game losing streak against Indiana and defeated the Pacers for just the fourth time in 18 games. 
Rik Smits had 24 points and 11 rebounds and Reggie Miller had 16 of his 20 points in the second half for the Pacers, who were unable to overcome a slow start and lost for the fifth time in seven games. 
The Pacers, down by 20 late in the second quarter and 18 at halftime, tightened up their de­fense in the third, holding Johnson to one point and the Hornets to 15. 
But Indiana couldn't sustain the momentum in the fourth quarter and didn't cut its deficit below seven points until the fi­nal five seconds. 
Indiana missed 15 of its first 18 field-goal attempts, helping the Hornets build a 27-18 lead after the first quarter. 
Johnson took over in the sec­ond, assisting on three consec­utive baskets and hitting a short jumper in the lane to ex­tend Charlotte's lead to 47-28 with 3:45 left. 
At that point, Johnson had seven points and eight assists and Indiana starters Mark Jackson, Dale Davis and Derrick McKey were scoreless on a combined 0-for-10 field­goal shooting. 
Warriors 105 Rockets 102 
HOUSTON 
B.J. Armstrong scored a ca­reer-high 35 points Tuesday night and helped Golden State overcome Houston's dramatic fourth-quarter comeback for a 105-102 overtime victory over the injury-depleted Rockets. 
presents: 




Uass Sunstein 
Professor of Law at the University of Chicago 
on 

Against Tradition: 
Why Tradition is a Bad Source of Constitutional Rights 
Thursday, March 21 
12:00 PM 
in the Law School Courtroom 
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 
.IRISH GOLF 

,,,Notre Dame women's golf 
ed the competition for the hisb with ascore of 18~1. ,,, Iowa State won the champi·.•... ']The Nott~ Dame women's onship with a two-round team g(Jlf teamj~(foff last weekend score of 621. followed by f(U' its.first ID~tch ofthe season Campbell University with 630 ~J tilE! Northern Jlllnois and, a tie between the College .Snowbird Jiltercoll!lglMe in of Charleston and Missouri for Tampa, Florida. · third with 641 each. Iowa 
The Irish finished thirteenth State's Holly Duncan and oy.t of sixteln. teams With a Charleston's Joanne Baylis tied first·roiil,ld total of 3 5 ~ .on at 154 for the medalist honors .. 'rl1ut~4ay•an~ a secqn~'"tf>hnd · 1n Mmtion to the team com: total of 33.9 on Friday to end petion the Irish won honors ln . the tournament tied; ..with the individual competition of Kansas State at 682. the tournament, Jessica 

omOF(t Ttl:ley Melbyled the Heieck earned the 65th place ·•.·vvjth.atwo•round total.of :,,spotwi.th a 175. " 

63 which earned her:•• 18th · ·· The. Snowbird Intercollegiate ::place ovettJ.li: Katie King fol-was the first of the five tourna­lowed Melby for the Irish with ments the Irish will compete in a 30thplace finish and ascore this season with their next of 166:'' +~cey Canavesi's 176 match being at the end of next apdJW\e ~elhy's 178 earned week when they travel to them 69th· and 74th place, Indiana University for their while Marty Anne Hall complet-spring invitational. 
Y~:i··· 

OOKSTORE XXV LAST CHANCE!! SIGN-UPS 
Price: $13.00 
ednesday Thursday Friday 11-2 P.M. 6-9 P.M. 11-3 P.M. 
Happy 22nd Birthday, Robert & Richard! ••Moonlight at the Oasis~~ II yo~'ll be our shieks, We'll . · bellydoncers! 
Applications are being accept­ed from NOW until MARCH 22 for all positions in Lafortune Student Center (under the supervision of the Student Activities Office) and Stepan Center. 
Applications can be picked up at the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune, or at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Apply now for a great opportunity and experience! 
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

Gretzky returns home to mixed reaction 
By BETH HARRIS 
Assod.Hcd Pross 
INGLEWOOD. Calif. 
First. they booed. Then the sellout crowd of 16,005 cheered. They couldn't quite d1~eide how to react when Wayne Gretzky returned to the Forum for the first time. 
Thfl mixed emotions didn't afl'nct Grotzky's ability to per­form under pressure in his first gamtl against the Los Angeles Kings since he was traded Feb. 27. 
lie had a goal and an assist in a 3·1 victory for the St. Louis Blues. who arc chasing Vaneouver, Calgary and Toronto for home-ice advan­tage in the phiyoiTs. 
"I was able to focus mo1·e on tho importance of tho game rather than everything that went with it, and that took u littln pressure off," Gretzky said. 
Although tho eatcalls and ex­tra attontion didn't affect his performance, Cretzky's home­eoming took a toll on him. The sellout crowd added to the pressure by booing every time he touched the puck early in tho game. 
"It was a very emotional day for everyone, especially my­self," said Gretzky. whose two points gave him 2,600 for his NHL career, one of 61 records he already owns. 
The game represented the first chance Los Angeles had to bid farewell to the player who put West Coast hockey on the map. Gretzky's final game for the Kings was on the road at Winnipeg on Feb. 26. 
The next day he rejected a contraet otTer from the Kings, and got traded to St. Louis for three players and two draft picks. 
The deal triggered a back­lash against Gretzky the likes of which he had never seen in his 17 -year career. 
Jlis image as the game's greatest player and its best ambassador took a hit, with observers accusing him of making a selfish grab for a larger paycheek. 
"I don't have any regrets. The only thing is, there are people to this day who don't believe that I was traded," Gretzky said. "Again I repeat, I never asked to be traded, never demanded to be traded. I was traded." 
•NBA 

Defense leads Bulls' charge 
Associated Press 
CJIICAGO 
The Chicago Bulls, holding Sacramento to three points in the final 10 1/2 minutes, beat the Kings 89-6 7 Tuesday night despite only 20 points from Michael Jordan and the ab­sence of Dennis Hodman and Scottie Pippen. 
It was the 40th consecutive regular-season horne victory for Chicago, tying Orlando for the NBA record. The Magic also won at home Tuesday. 
Sacramento scored only seven points in the fourth quar­ter -just three after tying the game at 64 with 10:38 to play. The Kings were 0-for-16 from the floor. 0-for-2 from the line and committed live of their 22 turnovers in getting outscored 21-0 over a 9 1/2-minute stretch. 
It was Chicago's first game at home and second overall since Hodman was suspended for head-butting a referee. Rodman, the league's top re­bounder, will miss four more games. Pippen, out with ten­dinitis in his knees, might re­turn as early as Thursday against New York. 
Toni Kukoc had another strong game in place of Pippen, getting 18 points, seven re­bounds and five assists. lie is averaging 19 points in the five games Pippen has missed. 
Mitch Richmond scored 23 points, including 19 as Kings rallied from a 46-33 halftime deficit to tie the game early in ttie fourth quarter. lie went cold with the rest of the team. missing his final six shots be­fore fouling out. 

Jordan had eight points dur­ing the Bulls' 21-0 run. 
The Kings have gone 5-20 since a Feb. 1 loss to the Bulls. Sacramento, which had been 23-16 before going into the long slump that might cost it a play­off spot, shot 28 percent from the floor. 
Cleveland 81 Dallas 72 
DALLAS 

Danny Ferry scored 24 points and went 6-of-7 from 3­point range as the Cleveland Cavaliers dealt the stumbling Dallas Mavericks their eighth consecutive loss, 81-72 Tuesday night. 
Frustrated by the Cavs' delib­erate offense and trapping de­fense, the Mavericks had their lowest point total of the season and shot 29 percent from the field. 
Terrell Brandon contributed 14 points and Bobby Phills 12 for the Cavs. George McCloud paced the Mavericks with 18 points and Jason Kidd added 14. 
After falling behind by seven early in the fourth quarter, the Mavericks rallied to narrow the deficit to three, 71-68, on Kidd's two free throws with 
1:48 left. 
But Brandon stripped the ball from Jim Jackson on Dallas' next possession and Brandon converted two free throws with 59 seconds left to push Cleveland's lead to 73-68. Phills added a pair of free throws with 44 seconds left for a 75-68 lead, wrapping up Cleveland's third victory in four games. 
McCloud, held scoreless in the first half as he missed all seven field goal attempts including four 3-pointers. got hot in the third quarter with 13 points. Dallas got as close as 51-48 with 6:47 left in the third on McCloud's third 3-pointer of the quarter, but the Cavaliers took a 62-56 edge into the final quarter. 
Cleveland controlled the tempo from the opening tip, grinding to a 20-11 lead enter­ing the second quarter. Ferry was 5-for-5 from 3-point range and had 17 first-half points to lead Cleveland to a 45-36 ad­vantage at the break. 
New Jersey 82 
Vancouver 75 

EAST RUTI-IEHFOIW, N.J. 
The Vancouver Grizzlies lost their 15th straight game Tuesday night as the New Jersey Nets closed with a 15-6 spurt to post an 82-75 win in a game that featured the late ejections of Shawn Bradley and Greg Anthony. 
Bradley led the Nets with 17 points before being tossed with 
5:21 to play, while Armon Gilliam had 16 and 10 re­bounds. Gerald Wilkins and Bryant Reeves had 15 points apiece for Vancouver, which has lost its last live games by a total of 25 points. Eric Murdock added 13 points. 
Bradley and Anthony were ejected in a scuffle away from the ball. Anthony appeared to throw a punch at the Nets cen­ter, while Bradley had him in a headlock and might have slapped the back of his neck. 
Leading 69-67 with 3:40 to play. Reeves went to the foul line for two shots and missed both. 

•The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism• 
The Deportment of Art, Art History and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism. Current .Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for consideration in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. 
Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art Department Office, 132 O'Shag, by 3 p.m. Monday, April 1, to be eligible. A student may only submit ONE entry. Rules governing the competition are available in the Art Department Office. A total of $500 in prizes will be awarded. 
For additional information you may contact · Prof. Charles Rosenberg, 128 O'Shag, ext. 1-5672. 
Attention Hospitality Program Members •• Past and Present: 
II you missed last night's meeting, please tome tomorrow. We will be having a setond meeting to prepare lor April Visitation tomorrow night, Thursday Marth 21. It will begin at 8:00p.m. in Room 138 DeBartolo. Please bring your personal talendar and apen. 
Questions? Unable to attend? Call: 
Colleen Walton Jennifer Carrier Student Coordinator Undergraduate Admissions 4-4707 1-7505 
We really need your help, so please make every effort to attend! 
EARN CASH by DONATING 
You could earn: 
$30°0after your first plasma donation! 
$1500  if you donate alone (first visit)  
+$ 500  if you show college I. D. (first visit)  
+$1 000  per person if you recruit someone and they donate  

$30°0 TOTAL! Help Us Save Lives Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I. D. COME TO: HOURS: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL T-F: 9-6 515 LINCOLNWAY WEST SAT: 8-5 SOUTH BEND, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
•Nn 
Cornhuskers down Cougars 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Senior guard Tom Wald scored six points in the final 49 seconds and Nebraska out­lasted Washington State 82-73 Tuesday night in a second­round National Invitation Tournament game. 
Trailing 47-37 at the half, Washington State (17-12) bat­tled back. Shamon Antrum hit a 3-pointer and Isaac Fontaine had three baskets in a 9-1 run that narrowed Nebraska's lead to 7 4-73 with 2:52 left. 
But the Cougars didn't score again and Nebraska (18-14) sealed the victory at the free throw line. 
Bernard Garner sank two free throws with 1:39 remaining before Wald took over. Wald scored the only Husker field goal in the final 7:50 of the game, driving the lane for a layup with 49 seconds left. 
Wald then hit four free throws in the final 33 seconds to close out the scoring. 
Nebraska won the game at the free throw line, hitting 18 of 
25. Washington State was just 6 of 14 from the stripe. 
Erick Strickland led Nebraska with 18 points, while Garner had 16 and Wald and Terrance Badgett 12 each for the Huskers. 
Fontaine led the Cougars with 21, followed by Mark Hendrickson with 12, Antrum with 11 and Carlos Daniel and Tavares Mack with 10 each. 
St. Joseph's 82 Providence 62 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Mark Bass led five St. Joseph's players in double fig­ures and the Hawks built an 18-point first-half lead en route to an crushing 82-62 second­round NIT victory over Providence Tuesday night. 
Bass scored 17 of his 21 points in the first half for St. Joseph's (17-12), which has not advanced this far in the NIT since a 1956 semifinal appear­ance. 
Rashid Bey finished with 16 points, Terrell Myers 13, Reggie Townsend 12 and Will Johnson 11 for the Hawks. God Shammgod and Derrick Brown each had 19 points for Providence (18-12). 
The Friars, who lost in the second round of the NIT last year, saw their hopes of a third-round appearance dashed by a horrendous 0-for-23 per­formance from behind the 3­point line and inconsistent play. Down 42-28 at the half, the Friars cut the St. Joseph's lead to single digits on several occa­sions in the second half, but were unable to get closer than eight. 
The Friars shot 32.4 percent for the game, while St. Joseph's hit 52.4 percent of its shots. 
Bass scored all the St. Joseph's points in a 13-4 first­half spurt that gave the Hawks control. With St. Joseph's lead­ing 21-12, the 5-foot-9 senior guard made a layup at 7:06, added a pair of 3-pointers. a baseline drive, a pull-up 5-foot­er, and a third 3-pointer with 
4:36 left in the half that made the score 34-16. 
The Friars' poor first-half performance frustrated fans at the Providence Civic Center, a number of whom booed when Townsend was left alone un­guarded under the basket for an easy first-half layup that gave the Hawks their 21-12 lead. 
Fresno State 80 Michigan State 70 
FRESNO, Calif. Dominick Young scored 21 points and Kendric Brooks had 

20 as Fresno State eliminated the last Big 10 team in postsea­son play with an 80-70 victory over Michigan State in a sec­mid-round NIT game Tuesday night. 
The Bulldogs (22-10), winners of 15 straight at home, ad­vanced to a Friday quarterfinal match against Nebraska, an 82­73 winner over Washington State earlier Tuesday. The game will be played at Fresno, where the Bulldogs are 7-0 in postseason NIT matches. 
The early exit by the Spartans (16-16) was part of a pattern of postseason futility for Big 10 teams. Nine schools went to either the NCAA or NIT tour­naments and none made it past the second round. 
Quinton Brooks' 19 points led the Spartans. Ray Weathers added 11 and Jamie Feick had 10. 
Rhode Island 62 College of Charleston 58 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Tyson Wheeler hit two free throws to send the game into overtime, then sank a 3-pointer in the extra session as Rhode Island edged College of Charleston 62-58 in a National Invitation Tournament second­round game Tuesday night. 
Wheeler's free throws with 
26.3 seconds remaining in reg­ulation, halted a Rhode Island collapse that saw f.harleston (25-4) rally from a 48-33 deficit to take a 53-51 lead. Rhode Island (20-13) did not score a field goal in the final 14 min­utes of regulation. 
Antonio Reynolds' basket with 4:22 left in overtime finally ended the field goal drought and gave the Rams a 55-53. lead. Wheeler's 3-pointer pushed the margin to 58-53 with 3:35 left. 
Arts and Letters Fair 
Wednesday, March 20 6:30-8:30 p.m. Monogram Room -JACC 
All Majors, Programs, Concentrations, and Area Studies will be represented 
Students in Business, Science, Engineering, and Architecture, as well as Arts and Letters 
' 

are welcome to investigate these programs 

St. Patrick's 
11Ud!
Day &19TH 
Birthday to 
our sweet 
little Irishman! 

TASTE OF INDIA 
Newly Opened Indian Restaurant! 
Vegetarian and Non-Vegetarian Indian Cuisine 
Lunch Buffet 11:30AM-2:30PM $5.95 all you can eat! Dinner 5-9 pm daily Monday-Thursday Open 'til Sunset Friday Closed Saturday Specialty dishes prepared in our authentic Tandouri Clay Oven! For Large Group Reservations Call (616) 471 5058 
8938 US Highway 31 Berrien Springs, MI 
(Across from Andrews University) 
r-----~----------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------------­
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SAINT MAnv's TENNis 
Belles step up against international foes 
By STEP! IAN IE BUEK Sain1 Mary's Spons Ediwr 
Competing against Division seholarship athletes from Poland, Belgium, South Africa, and Hussia, the Saint Mary's College tnnnis team opened its spring season last week with a 5-3 pnrformanee at llilton llnad, S.C. 
Dnspitn thn fornign eompeti­tion, SMC llead Coach Katie Cronwr said the Belles proved that suecess is a familiar faeet of their game. Aecording to Cromer, the team's seores against Division I powerhouses sueh as Southeast Missouri Staltl University do not rellnct tlw high caliber of the Belles' play throughout the tourna­nwnt. 
"We lost H-1 to Southeast Missouri," Cromer said. "In the thrml years that I have gone (to llilton llead) we have always lost the first game, but we shouldn't have lost to (Southeast Missouri). That was tlw only game we played no­add, so there is n~ally no indication or how elose the matehes were. We had some grmtt points against them; we weren't totally blown away." 
Getting great points against regionally and nationally ranked teams will be a signifi­cant factor in the Belles' post­season suecess. Though their season is just underway, the team established its long-term goals at llilton Head. In the previous two years, SMC has finished the season qualifying for the bottom bracket of the National Tournament. Kate Kozacik, #1 singles player, wants to improve upon that success. 
"This year we're trying to break into the top eight at Nationals," Kozacik said. "The focal point of our whole season, our goal. is to qualify for the top eight. Even if we didn't win (against Southeast Missouri). we need to Jearn something ev­ery time we play. Playing these teams is good practice." 
Sophomore #3 singles Jen Brahler agreed that Hilton I lead provided the type of expo­sure to the ranked teams that will prove essential to the Belles' hopes of a high finish at Nationals. According to Brahler, SMC has to play con­sistently well in front of the t·ight pnople to get the recogni­tion it needs to advance to Nationals. 
"We beat Franklin and Marshall at Hilton Head, and those were big wins because t~eir coach is on the ranking committee. " Brahler said. "Overall, we played really well. As the week went on, we picked up the pace. We improved." 
Though SMC fell to fellow Division IJI contender University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire 5-4, Kozacik played an integral part in increasing the team's exposure in singles. Hanked twentieth in the Midwest Region, Kozacik soundly defeated Eau Claire's nationally ranked top singles player 6-2, 6-1. 
"(Kozacik) was in total con­trol," Cromer said. "It was a very big win for her. She should move up in the rank­ings." 
Kozacik said that she had a good feeling about the match all week. 
"You should always look at one match at a time, but that match was in the back of my mind the whole week," Kozacik said. 
"I knew it would be big. I knew I had to be mentally pre­pared. All week I psyched my­self up for it." 

Beyond singles, the Belles' doubles teams also fared well at Hilton Head. While #1 Kozacik and Nancy Sorota beat Eau Claire, the #2 combination of Brahler and Ashley McArdle suffered only one loss through­out the tournament to Southeast Missouri. 
According to Kozacik, the team's achievement in doubles will influence its opportunity at securing a top eight position at' Nationals. Since freshman Rachel Blanchard's transfer to Division II Grand Valley State in Michigan last fall, SMC has struggled to re-establish solid #3 singles and #1 doubles teams in order to fully utilize its potential for a high post-season seed. The team's recent pros­perity at Hilton Head served as a reference point for further success. 
"It's important for doubles to do well because that carries over to single," Brahler said. "We got stronger during the week; we gained more confi­dence. Hopefully we can carry that out throughout the sea­son." 
P R I N C I P L E S of S 0 U N D R E T I R E M E N T I N V E S T I N G 


D or fast relief from the nagging ache of taxes, we .1..' recommend TIAA-CREF SRAs. SRAs are tax-deferred annuities designed to help build additional assets-money that can help make the difference between living and living wtll after your working years are over. 
Contributions to your SRAs are deducted from your salary on a pretax basis. That lowers your current taxable income, so you start saving on federal and, in most cases, state and local income taxes right away. What's more, any earnings on your SRAs are also tax-deferred until you receive them as income. That can make a big difference in how painful your tax bill is every year. 
Ensuring the future for those who shape it.... 
As the nation's largest retirement system, based on assets under management, we offer a wide range of allocation choices -from the TIAA Traditional Annuity, which guarantees principal and interest (hacked by the company's claims-paying ability), to TIAA-CREF's diversified variable annuity accounts. And our expenses are very low, 0 which means more of your money goes toward improving your future financial health. 
To find out more, call 1 800 842-2888. We'll send you a complete SRA information kit, plus a free slide calculator that shows you how much SRAs can lower your taxes. 
Call today-it couldn't hurt. 

•St(lnJanJ d Poorj lno~WYJno &tin.IJ Anai:'J"i.t, lQ96; Lipper Analytic..I Servicea, lnc.,l#fKr-/Jirrclorw 'AMlytU'tll Data, 1995 (Quarterly). CRI<;I•' certilicatea are distributed by TIAA.CREF Individual and lnsticurional ServK.-ea, Inc. fo'or mo~ complete infonnatKm,· mcluJing (.'hargea utd expcnaca, call I 8()()...&42~2733, ext. 5509, for a current CREF proapet.'tua. ReaJ the proapectua carefully before you mveat or .em..l money. 
page 17

Softball 
continuedfrompage20 
bounced back well Saturday, topping Florida Atlantic 4-2 and Western Illinois 2-1 to wrap up their 10-day trip to southern Florida. 
Dawn Cunningham, Jenn Giampaolo, and Korrie Allen each collected a pair of hits and knocked home a run in the opening game of the doubleheader. Battersby and Kobata capped a strong week by recording victories on the final day of the break. 
''I'm pretty pleased with the way the team has improved up to this stage of the season," said Miller. "There is a long way to go, but we seem to be on the way to a successful year." 
Track 
continued from page 20 
shoulder loosened up some­what. Fleisch ended up finish­ing in thirteenth place overall with a throw of seventeen meters. 
Notre Dame also sent Jeff Hojnacki, and Berit Junker to the HCA Dome in Indianapolis over Spring Break to compete. The Championships were the last event before the outdoor season's opening. 
Senior, Jeff Hojnacki ran in the 800 meters and finished seventh in his heat with a time of 1:50.80. Berit Junker ran in the women's 800 meters and came in seventh place as well. Both missed qualifying for the final heats. 
8-Ball 
continued from page 20 
Everybody knows about Notre Dame now. They will be more conscious of who we are," said junior Katryna Gaither. 
Earning respect was very im­portant to this year's Irish team. Nearly everyone in­volved with women's college basketball should know by now that Notre Dame is a talented team. Apparently, no one re­layed this information to the NCAA tournament selection committee. The committee handed the Irish a twelfth seed in their 16-team region despite Notre Dame's previous Top 25 national ranking. 
"A lot of us were disappoint­ed. Being ranked 22nd in the nation, we thought we would get a higher seed than that," explained Peirick. 
"We were sort of surprised that we didn't get seeded high­er. We thought we would get a better seed after all of our accomplishments," said Gaither. 
After the final game, Irish head eoach MuiTet McGraw of­fered her players words of en­couragement for an excellent tournament and overall sea­son. 
"She said we should all be proud and walk out with our heads up high," Gaither said. 
This season's Irish team cer­tainly has many reasons to be proud. OfT the court, its play­ers and coaches never offered excuses following losses, and they were always humble fol­lowing victories. On the court, they accomplished more than any team in Notre Dame histo­ry. 
With most of this year's team returning for next season, the best is yet to come. 
Please Recycle the Observer 
Wednesday, March 20, 1996
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish battle to:·{t\ 
'i 

overcome IDJnnesw 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ ries in all of it's matches. Also Sports Writer junior Erin Gowen and sopho~ more Molly G&vin.havf! shown 
Rough times have hit the improvement and come up women's tennis team. The with wins in tight situations. team has been trying to not.·· · week the Irish are look­only battle .its opponents ,buf , in .·· o crush their bi~ tirne also injuries and illness. The rival. Purdue University,;; injuries did not seem to be Purdue is always a big match slowing the team at all; .the for the Irish apcordjngJ~ wany Irish are riding high after a ofthe upperClassmen., H:;•;v ·· ·• ·:·.••, successful Spring Break, "Purdue is strong allthe way where they went undefeated. through/' stated Lord, "They Also the team is celebrating its have lots of f.iepth. I think that highest rankings ever, as they we can win if we keep up the captured the eighth ranking in way we have been playing. we the country. can definitely win." 
The Irish have been hit with Lord also stated tbat th\3 injuries to some of its top play• team will have to. rel}i on its ers. Senior Sherri Vitale suf-depth because of all the fered a wrist injury early in injuries which ha~e been the season against plaguing the team.. 4!~ •. Northwestern. Vitale status is The Irish' Uneup is !:!tUl· a bit still unknown. She has in doubt. More than likely improved, but she is not ready Crabtree will be playing the for competition yet. Al$o top $pot. Hall will p!:) in the. senior captain Wendy Crabtree second spot and thenLord will. has been battling off and on an be in the third spot. At No. 4 ankle injury. The injury ini-singles, you will find Velasco. tially occurred in the fall and Finishing out the fifth and six kept Crabtree from participat· spots will be Gowen and ing in the fall season, but it Gavin. has also been ailing her this The doubles lineup is a bit spring. mote solidified. The No.1 spot 
The team bas been able to will be filled by Lord and 
overcome most of this adversi-Crabtree. Then at the second 
ty by digging into its depth. position Gavin and Hall will 
Freshmen Jennifer Hall and play, and at the final spot 
Marisa Velasco have been Velasco will more than likely 
stepping up in key situations. will team up with sophomore 
Also the team has seen leader-Kelley Olson. 
ship come forth. in senior Velasco stated that the team 
Holyn Lord. Lord this past really bonded over break, and 
week won all of her matches she thinks that this will aid the 
and helped the Irish to victo-team against rival Purdue. 
By Lori Gaddis 
Sportswriter 

The Saint Mary's softball team returned from Fort Myers, Florida this week boasting a 5­3 record. This record matches that of last year's Spring trip and reflects much of the hard work, dedication, and team concept for which the Saint Mary's Belles are known. 
The Belles started out strong, defeating the first four teams they faced. Much of the success of the Belles earlier in the week was attributed to the strength of the first-year players acquired this season as well as the experience of the five seniors on the team. Coach Maggie Killian was pleased with the effort of these stu­dents. 
"(First-year player) Kelly Coughlin stepped into a starting role in the outfield and played solid defense for us," Killian stated. "We look for her to con­tinue to develop into a strong offensive player as well. She has good speed and had some key at bats throughout the week." 
The Belles' enthusiasm began to die mid-week as they took their first loss against Teikyo Post. TP pitcher Jaime Wilcox held the Belles to 3 hits that produced only one run. In the following loss to Rockford College, pitcher Amy Greskiw allowed six hits but held the Belles to no runs. Senior Laura Richter commented on the loss­es. 
"We were sound defensively 
but offensively, we didn't pull 
through," she said. "When we 
23R0 Annual Sutntner Progratns 
ND-SMC Students 
Meeting April 1sr Carroll Hall, SMC 7:00PM 

London Rome 
May 22-June 21 June 16-July 15 
Travel in Ireland, Scotland, France, Germany and Switzerland 
Courses Offered in Biology, Business & Economics, History, Italian, Photography, Sociology. 
Cookies & Punch 

Past students and faculty will be present. For information call Prof. Black at a84-4460 or 272-3726. 
• SMC SOFTBALl 

Belles duplicate last year's feat 
became unfocused at the plate, our bats were ofT and you could see it in our play." 
The Belles went into their final game on Friday against North Central College with a record of 4-3. It was this game that became the highlight of the trip for the Belles. North Central was ranked fifth in the Midwest Region and is a team that the Belles have lost to four times in the last two years. 
However, after a regrouping, the Belles intensity resurfaced and their bats came to life. Costly errors by North Central coupled with a strong and alert Saint Mary's defense helped the Belles to defeat the ranked team, 6-1. 
Senior pitcher Maria Vogel helped her own cause by driv­ing home one run in the second inning. More plate activity came in the 4th inning when first-year catcher Diane Andrews singled to score senior shortstop Shannon Hiese. A past ball then allowed first-year first-base player Liz Kopp to score in the fifth inning. 
Finally. first-year outfielder Sarah Martin, recovering from mononucleosis scored two runs with a shot to right field in the seventh inning. Senior second base player Amy Misch was pleased with both the offensive and defensive efforts of the Belles. 
"Our defense carried through that game and our bats were there when we needed them," Misch stated. "It was a huge win for us and hopefully our intensity will carry over." 
Killian was very pleased with the contributions made by the first-year players. 
"Sarah Martin really came through for us with a 2 RBI sin­gle in the seventh," Killian said. "After missing weeks of prac­tice due to mono, she is getting stronger and stronger." 


POMSQUAD 
9nformational }Vleeting 

sun., March 24, 1996 3:00 p.m. Notre Dame Room LaFortune • 2nd Floor  


ALL ND/SMC FRESHMEN THROUGH JUNIOR WOMEN INVITED. 
Call Heather at 284-4389 or Sharon at 634-2683 for more information. 
energy 
... 
0 
., 
~his t:Chursday 
vs. Purdue Ivy Field • 4:00 p.m. 
Wednesday, March 20, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


SCOTT ADAMS 
I'M STARTING TO LOSE M'( IDEALISt"\. 
t-\ONOTONE THAT 1"\A.K.ES US ALL WANT TO SLAP 
57 "GoTeii-­Rhody" 58 Most abominable 5950-Down membership 60Lady--of 
"Richard Ill" 
61 Moisten 
62 Without thinking 
63 Nutritional fig. 
64 Word with rail or boy 
DOWN 
1 Miss--of "Dallas" 2 Attacked suddenly 3 Call forth 4 Early tiller 5 Slightest amount 6 Quench 7 Convincingly a Topic of gossip 9 Amphitheater 


29 Hissing an inn 44 Endow with rank skiers
32 Mass vestment12 Meal starter 

45Nap 551814-15 exile 14 Sink's 
33 Bering Sea isle 
47Tiny site alternative 34 Looked for 

49 Range name 56 Mideast money17 Sobriquet of Hepplewhites 
50 Financial page 57 "--live andElizabeth I 35 Shared by all abbr. breathe!" 
20 Commemora-36 Southwest tip of
tive for Billy Joe England

24 Spanish lord Get answers to any three clues 
37Numero-­

26 Women's rights by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
5656 (75¢ each minute).
Lucretia (waker-upper) 

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
IIAI'PY IIIRTIII>AY! IN TilE 
NEXT \'EAI{ OF YOLIR LIFE: 
You will feel much more ,cllkd. 
Focus 011 1he rewards of home ami 
family. Roma11cc looks especially 
glorious !his spri11g. Make improve­
melliS if 1hinki11[! of pulling your 
home on 1hc markel. There will he 
fewer emolional pressures once 
summer gels underway. A fun vaca­
lion need nol be expensive. Keep 
lhings simple and casual. Laic lall 
will hring imponanl changes on lhc 
job scene. Look forward 1o fresh ·business lriumphs early in 1997! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: actress Holly Humer. 
hockey great Bobhy Orr, director 
Spike Lee, songwriter Jerry Reed. 
baske1ball coach Pal Riley, director 
Carl Reiner. actress Theresa Russell, 
children's TV hos1 "Mr. Rogers. 
Norwegian playwrighl llenrik lhsen. 
ARIES (March 2.1-April 19): 
Catch up on roUiine !asks lhis mom­
ing. Emphasize amiability and good 
service. Show appreciation for pas1 
favors and assis1ance. Someone may 
try to pump you for inforrnalion. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 
Opportunilies ahound but may he 
difficult to spot. Slay alert and do 
nol overlook lhe smallesl opening. 
Your personal magnetism wins you 
the backing of influenlial people. 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An excellenl day 10 seek a fresh view­point. Grealer freedom of aclion will soon be possible. A secrel could be revealed. Do not break a confidence. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
The gossips could have a field day 
now. Be prac1ical; strike out in a dif­
ferenl direction from lhe crowd. A 
more flallering hair slyle will do 
wonders for your confidence. 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Keep 
your emolions in check. Underesti­
maling your crealive ideas would be 
• OF INTEREST 

a 1111\la~t!. Ta~c advantac.c ul \Oilll' 
one·, offer 10 help. Pe ..>pk il~t· In have sccrcls: lei lhem. 
VIIH;o <Aug. 23-Sepl. 221: Co· operaI ion is c-..,cntial if hopin~ to improve lhe hollom line 111 hu,ine". Sellle dispules calmly and wllh con· !idencc. Banish any douhls you may have annul romance. 
LIBRA (Sepl. 23-0cl. 22): The day signals an increase in your resources. A slllhhorn prohlem. prohahly financial. is rmally solved. Restriclions come lo an end. Opt tor innovative melhods. 
SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21 ): Your concern for ~omeone makes you expand your horizons. lntellec­lllal pursuils enjoy highly favorahle influences. A loved one may he depressed. Be honest. 
SAGITTARIUS <Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Dreams can he prophelic. Wrile 1hem down for fulure reference. Hasty actions could send a work projccl off course. lnvcs1iga1e a silu­alion involving inlemalional finance or real e'lale. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Oulside influences slimulate your mind. You are ahle 10 accom­plish more lhan usual. Avoid people who try 10 distracl you from your goals. Keep lhc ball of initialivc rolling: Ihe doors of opponunity will open. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A caulious approach will keep overrun' 10 a minimum. If 01hers wan11o assisl you. lei them. Be less defensive ahoul romance. Your panner may need a nudge to do the righl thing. 
PISCES <Feb. 19-March 20): Higher-ups arc amazed by your cre­alivily now. Success will provide you wilh new social advanlages. Make I he mosl of them! When allending large gatherings. lei olhers seek you oul. 
The School of Architecture is sponsoring a leeture today by Bartholomew Voorsanger, a praeticing ar­chitect in New York City and former President of the New York Chapter of the InstitutH of Architecture. His lecture begins today at 4 p.m. at the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum and admission is free. 
A Job Search Orientation for Juniors will provide an overview of the types of activities involved in preparing for the job seareh in their sonior year as well as how the Career and Placement Services office can assist in this process. The presentation will be held today from 6:30-7:30 p.m. in tlw Foster Room in LaFortune. 
IIi MENU  
Notre Dame  
North Cheese Enchilada Chicken & Dumplings Garden Qukhe  South Veal Parmigiana Vegetable Stir-Fry Pita Brussels Sprouts  
Saint Marv's Sweet and Sour Pork Beef Canelloni Fioretini Zucchini  

WHILE l ACT INTERESTED! 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Psychoanalyst 
Fromm 6 School subj. 9 Word with ran 
13 Neighbor of Maui 14 Put on the schedule 15 Lovely ticketer 
of song 16 Worker's need 18 "L' --c'est 
moi" 19 Start of a quote 21 Cry of surprise 22 Sign 23 Braved 25 Object 28 Literary 
monogram ao Bustle 31 Kimono sash 
32 She was Jenny in "Love Story" 33--impasse 34 Middle of the quote aalmpudent person 39Arrest 40 Verb type: Abbr. 41 Banking convenience 42 Calendar abbr. 43 See 42·Down 
46 Chubby Checker's "-­Rock" 
48 "Two Years Before the Mast" author 
51 Actress Peeples 53 End of the quote 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



•I 
I I 



SPORTS
I• 
page 20 Wednesday, March 20, 1996 
• SOFTBALL 
Sun shines brightly on Notre Dame 
By MIKE DAY 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Who says you can't have the best of both worlds? 
While experiencing the fun and sun of southern Florida over Spring Break, the Notre Dame softball team was able to get something accomplished at the same time, winning 10 of 14 games to improve their overall record to 14-10. 
After reaching the quarterfinals of the Speedline South Florida Classic in Tampa, the Irish knocked off ACC powers Virginia and Florida State as a tuneup for the Lady Seminole Invitational. Facing some of the 


Irish shortstop Megan Murray belted a solo homerun to help_ Notre Dame upset No. 9 Florida State. Murray was a key factor in the Irish winning 10 ·out of 14 games over spring break. 
toughest competition in the country, Notre Dame won three of five games to cap the 10-day week. 
"Playing tough competition like we have will benefit us in the long run," said head coach Liz Miller. "We know that our record is not necessarily indicative of how we've played, but at the same time, we have played some strong opponents." 
The Irish opened up the week by upset­ting No. 18 ranked Illinois-Chicago 10-2 at the University of South Florida. After struggling in her previous three outings, freshman starter Angela Bessolo recorded her first career victory, allowing just two runs in four strong innings. 
"It's important for us that she gets going and becomes an important part of our rotation," said Miller. "Although she hasn't been extremely successful yet, I'm happy with the way she has thrown. I'm confident that she will still get better." 
After the upset of UIC, the Irish proceed­ed to win four of their next five games. Starter Terri Kobata tossed a pair of shutouts, and Joy Battersby recorded her first shutout of the season to help Notre Dame advance to the quarterfinals. 
Following their impressive tournament outing, the Irish turned it up another notch prior to their trip to Tallahassee, defeating Virginia 5-2 and Florida State 1­0. 
In Thursday's contest against FSU, Bessolo and second baseman Meghan Murray combined to help Notre Dame upset the No. 9 ranked Seminoles. Murray belted her second homerun of the season, and Bessolo pitched seven shutout innings to propel the Irish to the win. 
"It took a little time for us to adjust to the warmer weather, but I think we have made a smooth transition," said Murray. 
The only flaw in Notre Dame's near per­fect Spring Break came in the first day at the Lady Seminole Invitational. The Irish dropped two of three games to fall into the losers' bracket of the tournament. 
However, in typical fashion, the Irish 
see SOFTBALL I page 17 

Meyer joins staff 
Observer Staff Report 
Urban Meyer, wide receiver coach the last six years at Colorado State, has joined the University of Notre Dame football coaching staff as receivers coach. 
The 31-year-old Meyer replaces Tom Clements, who resigned in December to enter private busi­ness in Florida. 
Meyer helped the Hams to the 1994 Western Athletic Conference title and to Holiday Bowl appearances following both the '94 (1 0-2 final record) and '95 seasons (8-4). Colorado State fin­ished 16th in the final Associated Press poll in '94. 
In 1992 he coached wide receiver Greg primus, an all-WAC pick who finished as Colorado State's all-time leading receiver and ended up with 192 career catches for 3,200 yards (10th on the NCAA's all-time yardage list). 
He also helped Colorado State to the Freedom Bowl title following the 1990 season. While with the Rams he worked with two former Irish assis­tants, Skip Holtz and Mike Trgovac. 
Meyer spent the previous two seasons at Illinois State, coaching quarterbacks and receivers in 1989 and outside linebackers in 1988. 
lie worked as receiver coach at Ohio State in 1987 and helped the Buckeyes to a Cotton Bowl win fo11owing the '86 campaign when he coached tight ends. lie also served one season at Cincinnati as a student assistant coach. 

Center Katryna Gaither helped the Irish win their first NCAA tour­
nament game. The junior is one of many reasons why Notre 
Dame is confident that they will improve next season. see B-BALLI page I 7 

Women's Tennis 
vs. Purdue, Wednesday, March 20, 
3:30p.m. 
Men's Tennis 
at North Carolina, Friday, March 22 
Lacrosse 
at Butler, Saturday, March 23 

• TRACK AND fiELD 
Fleisch overcomes 
. .

InJury 

By]AMES BELDEN SpomWriter 
No Fear. 
It's a catch phrase that sticks to anything and every­thing from shirts, to fenders, and hats all over the campus. Many swear to it, but few live by it. Mike Fleisch's perfor­mance at Fleisch the NCAA Track and Field Championships epitomizes the true spirit of it. 
Fleisch dislocated his shoul­der the day before the cham­pionships while he was prac­ticing the shot. "I was on my last throw when my shoulder was dislocated," Fleisch stat­ed. 
Mike's untimely injury didn't keep him from compet­ing in the NCM's. "The doc­tor told me that I could dislo­cate my shoulder if I threw again. lie left it up to me, and I decided to give it a try," Fleisch said. 
The day of the meet, Fleisch was hoping his arm would hold up for at least one good throw. "I didn't warm up and I was just looking to get one good toss in," Fleisch said. 


Mike ended up throwing more than expected as his 
see TRACK I page 17 




Irish hope to build 
on Big East success 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 

When the game clock expired this Sunday in Lubbock, Texas, the season ended for the Irish women's basket­ball team. Notre Dame's performance at the NCAA tournament, however, is just the beginning for most members of this year's squad. 
Notre Dame will Jose only one starter to graduation. Senior Carey Poor, one of the team's top scorers and rebounders, leaves the Irish after four seasons at the forward position. 
The Irish accomplished nearly all of their major goals. They were very competitive in their inaugural season as a member of the Big East Conference, finishing in sec­ond place behind defending national champion Connecticut. They earned a national ranking for the last month of the season. And most importantly, they won the first NCAA tournament game in the history of Notre Dame women's basketball. 
Not bad for only one season. But guess what? Next year, they should be even better. 
"I think the goal for next year is to make the tourna­ment and beat some ranked teams during the regular season," commented sophomore Mollie Peirick. 
"Each year, we want to do better. So next year won't be any different. It might be a little harder, though. 
• St. Joseph stuns Providence 
Softball 
see page 16 

vs. Purdue, Thursday, March 21, 4 p.m. 
Baseball 
• Scott sets mark, Magic top Pistons 
at Boston College, Saturday, March 23 
see page 14 Saint Mary's 
• Florida State avoids serious sanctions 
Tennis vs. St. Joseph's, March 21 Softball vs. Olivet, March 21 
see page 13 






