~------------------------------------------------------------------------,-------------------------------~
~ 

Wednesday, March 27, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 113 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Runoff to decide Class of '97 leaders 
McNally, Wheby 
to represent peers in 1996-'97 
By CAROLINE BLUM SJinl Mary's Editor 
Tlw turbulance oJ student government at Saint Mary's might drag out just a lillie bit longer. 
While the sophomore and junior classes nlected their .:lass officers Tuesday, the Class of 1997 must revisit the polls on Thursday for a runofl'. 
Although only two tickets ran for senior r.lass orticn. neither captured thn requirnd 50 percnnf plus one vote to win tlw elnction. The missing num­lwrs wnre not caused by a large abstain vote, however. hut by an election violation that resulted in a 15 pnrcent rmluction of the Jolie Pokorny ticket's votes. 
Thn Pokorny (President) tick­et including Laura Loh (Vice­Prnsident). Karyn Connolly (Sncretary). and Katie Ellsworth (Treasurer), were penalized by the Board of Governance Elections Committee for handing out their 8 1/2" x 11" platform, a violation of the Election Poster Policies. 
After the reduction, the ticket earned 49 percent of the votes. 
"The violation did make a difference,"Elections Commissioner Emily Ruffner said. "It didn't force the ticket to lose, but it forced them into a runoff." 
The Anne Korte (President), Carolyn Deppisch (Vice­Prnsident), Courtney McEvers (Secretary), and Mia Pavlik (Treasurer) ticket received 38 percent of the vote, and 5 per­cent of the class abstained. Sixty-eight percent of the junior class voted. 
''I'm pleased with the voter turnout, and I think people will make surn they vote again on Thursday," Ruffner said. "When you have such a high percentage of voter turnout, then you know that the class really has in mind who they want to represent them." 
The 15 percent penalty will 
Saint Mary's Class Elections 
Class of 1999 Class of 1998 

Wheby 66% Abstain 
33% 

Class of 1997 
• Pokorny and Krunk lost
Pokorny* 
15% of their votes due to
49%

38% election violations. 
again apply in the runofl' elec­that's important to us. It's too tion on Thursday, according to bad that people who knew the Huffner. However, in order to rules didn't respect them. And win in a runoff election, a tick­it's also unfortunate that peo­et only needs the greater ple were persuaded by style amount of raw votes. and not substance." 
"We will carry our strength Korte's ticket will continue to arid confidence into Thursday's focus their campaign on election," Korte explained. women and their careers, "We know that we arc the best based on their slogan, "Women candidates for our class. We played fair and honest, and see ELECTIONS I page 4 

• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Council 
advises O'Hara 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
Assistant News Editor 
Thn Campus Life Council sent an advisory lntter in sup­port of the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Nends 
report to Pa­t r i c i a O'Hara, Vice President of Student Affairs on Monday. 
O'Hara is 


make a deci-O'Hara sion on the committee's report by the first week of April. The CLC pre­sented her with the letter to advise her on the Council's beliefs in the matter before she makes her decision. The CLC had a closed-door, 
see CLC I page 4 


SMC forum explores meaning of feminism 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
S.ain1 M.ary\ New' Ediror 
l'laguPd by stPreotypes and lahtds, fPminism is largely termed as "tlw ).' word," ae­wrding to a Saint Mary's forum presented by tlu~ Women's Cm1ter last night. 
Tllf' forum. 111 ode rated by Kanw Murphy, nxplon~d the mnaning of feminism on thn Saint Mary's campus, and kirknd off tlw earnpus-wide "Wnt~k of tlw Woman." 
Topks disrussnd rovnred a broad base of wonwn's issues, ranging from swreotypes at­tarlwd to feminism to the his­tory of wom1m's movnmnnt, to tlw rdationship hntwnlm femi­nism and lnsl1ian issues. 
Along with addrnssing thnse issues, thn focus of the panel enntl~n~d around how feminism plays into the idnntity of Saint Mary's as a women's collngc. 
"The simplest dnfinition I can think of for feminism is that it has to do with the commitment to advance the eause of women and fHJUality," said religious studies professor Phyllis Kaminski, who served as coor­dinator of the wonwn's studies program at Saint Mary's for thrne years. 
In light of this definition, many question why there is such a reluctancn for women to associ­ate themselves with feminism. 
The women's center took a random survey of 55 women in the dining hall. Of those sur­veyed, 69 percent said they would consider themselves to be feminist. 
As each of thn panelists drew dnfinitions of feminism similar see FORUM I page 6 


Moe promotes new relations with Vietnam 
By VIVIAN GEMBARA Healy Auditorium last night. 
New' Wriler The lecturn, entitled "Putting 
thn War Behind Us," focused 

BIH~stahlishnwnt of Vintnam on renewing dialogun with n~lations is contingnnt on the Vietnam. Thn lecture serins is dPgrne of horwsty applied in sponsored by the Notre Dame IIf~ aI i ng the 
Vintnamese Studnnt Club. wounds or Moe usml thn Vietnam War t.lw Vif~tnam as a prime example of greater War in the problems with domestic ideol­United ogy and policy-making. The S t a t e s growth of a political polariza­according to tion within the US began in retin~d U.S. the early 1900s. It grew sim­
A i r Fo r e e 
ply and eventually shaped the C o I o n e I Moe Vietnam era. Thomas The Cold War poliey of the Mon. United States was further ma­
Mo1~ stressnd the eurnmt US ligned in rnlation to Vietnam. donwstic pnrspective in deal­According to Moe, decision­ing with Vietnam as part of a guest lecture series at llayes-see MOE I page 4 


Ivins urges female leadership 
Columnist lauds  
efforts ofSouth  
Bend women  
By MEGAN McGRATH  
NewsWriler  
Nationally syndicated colum­ 
nist Molly Ivins eneouraged  
women to get more involved in  
the political process and to  
fight sexism with humor during The Observer/Jamie Heisler  
her knynote address at thn Graduate Student and Gender Studies Coordinator Marie Kramb (L),  
YWCA's Tribute to Women and Notre Dame senior Lauren Aimonette (R) pose with nationally syn­ 
dicated columnist Molly Ivins.Awards Luncheon Tuesday at  
the Century Center in South  you could all Jive in Texas." the  "Women often entnr politics  
Bend.  Houston native said.  in the traditional ways. for  
Ivins, an award-winning  The luncheon honored  example from the PTA, to the  
writer for the Fort Worth Star­ women and girls who have  school board and then to state  
Telegram and a best-selling  been active in the South Bend  legislature," Ivins said. "Think  
author, peppered her address  community in the arts, busi­ of it, we can't possibly do any  
with humorous stories from her  ness, education, health and  worse, and it behooves us as  
years on the campaign trail and  human services and volun­ citizens to work for the issues  
observations about the struggle  teerism, including several  we believe in."  
for women's rights.  members of the Notre Dame  Ivins also discussed the divi­ 
"It would be nice if the path  and Saint Mary's community.  sions in our society, tracing  
to women's liberation followed  Ivins encouraged these women  much of it to the phfmomenon  
one broad, smooth path, but it  to consider carrying their ac­ of displaeed anger in the politi­ 
hasn't. But it eould be worse,  tivism in the political arena.  cal arena.  
"I think good mothers make  "There's a lot of fear floating  
good politicians," Ivins said.  around out there: fear about  
"Most of our politieal problems  losing jobs. the falling economy.  
are variations on the two kids­ People feel vulnerabln, they've  
one cookie or three kids in the  already been affectNI by stag­ 
back seat lighting."  nant wages so there's good rea­ 
Too often the coneerns of  son for fear," Ivins said.  
womP.n are left out of the politi­ Displaeed anger oceurs when  
cal debate, Ivins said. She was  soeiety lashes out at thosn who  
troubled that important issues.  can't defend themselves: the  
such as health care and educa­ poor, illegal immigrants, wel­ 
tion have been left out of the  fare mothnrs, and in some in­ 
recent presidential debate on  stances women, according to  
both sides.  Ivins.  
"Working mothers are so  "I was in California when  
busy that they don't have time  they were debating Proposition  
to attend to politics, and at the  187 and I was listening to  
same time no onn in politics is  Governor (Pete) Wilson talk  
addressing their concerns,"  about how illegal immigrants  
Ivins said.  were ruining the economy," 
The Observer/Jamie Heisler Molly Ivins, award-winning colum­ That is why Ivins encouraged  Ivins said. "I told him they  
nist and best-selling author, lec­ the women attending the lun­ need to get some nicer  
tures at the meeting of the Young  cheon to get more involved in  Mexicans in California because  
Women's Christian Association  the political process, perhaps  
yesterday.  even running for elected office.  see IVINS I page 4  

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, March27, 1996 
• INSIDE GOUJMti 


Yeah for stupid people 
A band from my Matthew Loughran home state of Arizona, 
News Writer
the Refreshements, sings, "Everybody knows, that the world is full of stupid peo­ple." They say this as though it were i1 bad thing. But I say, thank God that it is. 
I mean to praise those people who ask the simple, basic questions that many people would be embarrassed to ask, the people who say things that seem to make little sense, but make them happy anyway, the people who dance around half-naked wear­ing stuffed animal pants, men who braid their hair with rubber bands, the people that say and do the random. crazy, inventive stuff that only either a low IQ or a low self esteem can provoke. 
Stupid people does not necessarily mean those people who are not traditionally intelli­gent. Stupid people can be defined as people who lack common sense. They lack that simple connection somewhere in their brain that says, "This has gone too far". 
Without stupid people, life would be dull. There would be no one to laugh at. How many times have you seen a sit-com that didn't have at least one idiot that could be laughed at. Without stupid people, we would all just be a bunch of over-educated, high pressure career geeks with nothing to show for our efforts. The job market is competi­tive enough without everyone that is old enough to work to be smart. 
A lack of stupid people would eliminate the market for anything sold by the Home Shopping Networks, and the entire cast of "Baywatch." There would never be a Jim Carey movie nor would there be any reason for flight attendants to give that familiar, comforting speech about safety before a plane takes off. 
Without stupid people, no one would ever consider running for president. No one would fall for Pat Buchanan's rhetoric, no one would have ever voted for Sonny Bono for any political office. Their would also be no one to get outraged over a harmless joke, or to misinterpret sarcastic letters to the edi­tor as serious attacks on their integrity. In other words, this world would be a colorless place ruled by people who cannot get over their own egos. 
Stupid people inspire supposedly creative 
people. Some of the greatest spontaneous 
comedy can be found in the deadpan lines of 
idiot characters like Lou Costello, Chico 
Marx, and Curly of the Three Stooges. If stu­
pid people did not exist, we would never 
have known these stereotypes to play off of. 
Nor could we ever laugh at ourselves, 
through comparison to stupid people. By the 
example of stupid people, normal, uptight 
people are able to cut loose and actually 
enjoy part of their time on earth. 
Not that I am taking some sort of superior 
view of these people. I have done my share 
of really stupid things. I have asked stupid 
questions, made stupid mistakes, and gener­
ally made a fool out of myself many times. 
And if J am counted amongst those who 
entertain, who inspire, who make this some­
times hellish life worth living. I say, thank 
you, I am honored. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Bill Connolly Production Jillian Pagliocca Belle Bautista John Hutchinson Spons Mike Day Lab Tech Mike Hungeling Graphics Chris Mullins 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday t"Xcept during exam and vacadon periods. The Observer is a member of rht" Associated Press. All reproducrion rights arc reserved. 

• Wmu.o AT A GtMwr 
FBI continues attempts to talk group out of enclave 
JORDAN, Mont. 

After capturing two leaders of the militant anti-government "freemen," federal agents edged in closer to their remote farm compound today as they worked to persuade other fugitives to surrender. 
"The negotiations are very sensitive," 
U.S. Attorney Sherry Matteucci said. "We don't want to do anything that endangers the safety of the people in the area." 
Agents called a farmer in the area and told her they wanted to move oper­ations into a crossroads community hall nine miles from the freemen's enclave. 
Federal agents had been at the hall briefly Monday before returning to Jordan, the Garfield County seat 30 miles from the freemen compound,where at least 100 officers had set up a command post. The farmer, who had the keys to the hall, said agents also told her they 
Anti-government standoff  houses and other buildings on a 960­acre wheat farm, "Justus Township"  
Federal agents try to persuade remaining  and insist they have their own laws and  
fugitives to surrender peacefully  their own courts. Neighbors say they  
are heavily armed.  
The farm  30 miles northwest of  
Jordan was sold at a foreclosure  auc­ 
tion in October, and the new owners  
have grown increasingly impatient to  
Jordan  take possession as spring planting time approaches.  
Authorities had held off for months on  
any attempt to arrest members of the  
group, saying they feared a violent con­ 
frontation such as that at Ruby Ridge,  
Wyoming  Idaho. In that 1992 standoff. a federal  
marshal and a separatist's wife and son 

-------....11 were killed. 
Militant anti-government "freemen" c., Deny the legitimacy of government and 
say they have their own laws and courts. 
(.,Issued thousands of dollars in worthless money orders and checks in attempts to buy 

wanted to clear news media from the '-g_u_ns_a_n_d..c.p_ay_t_ax_e_s_.________J 
area. 

LeRoy Schweitzer, 57, and Daniel E. Peterson, 53, were arrested Monday near this small east-central Montana town. They were to be arraigned today in Billings, charged in a federal indictment along with 10 others in schemes involving fraudulent checks and money orders. 
Schweitzer. Peterson and others also face state charges of criminal syndicalism -the advocacy of violence for political aims. 
The freemen group denies the legitimacy of the gov­ernment. Members call their compound, a cluster of 
Mrs. Clinton begins Turkey tour Brits deny immigrant welfare 
ANKARA. Turkey 

Hillary Rodham Clinton kept a bare­bones schedule Tuesday, paying hand­shake courtesy calls on Turkey's lead­ers after a grueling trip to Bosnia. "I don't think we'll discuss politics today," said Turkey's first lady, Nazmiye Demirel. Mrs. Clinton nodded her head in agreement. She met later with President Suleyman Demirel and 


Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz, but aides said little of sub­stance would be discussed. Demirel and President Clinton meet Friday in Washington. Mrs. Clinton paid her re­spects to Turkey's leaders and traditions on the third day of her eight-day European trip. The schedule was pur­posely light to give Mrs. Clinton a chance to recover from her heady appearance Monday before U.S. troops in Bosnia. 
Kidnapper orders own murder 
CONCORD, Calif. 

A store manager held hostage by an infatuated ex-em­ployee says she ended the five-hour ordeal by obeying the man's frantic order to shoot him or be shot. "There was no other way to get out alive," Mary Mcintyre said after emerging from the Contra Costa Trophy and Embroidery store Monday night. She said the man held her hand on a gun and aimed it at his head, ordering her to fire. She told the man she wouldn't shoot him, but he threatened her life repeatedly. "I was so terrified," she said. "I thought, 'If I'm going to do this, I'm just going to run.' Obviously I didn't want to see it." The 35-year-old man, identified as Jociel G. Bulawin, died from a single gun­shot wound to the head. Police said Bulawin had been fired from his job at the store about four months ago. He was apparently infatuated with Mcintyre, who was in the process of obtaining a court order to stop his harassment. 
on a Norwest Bank account that does not exist, the bank has said. Tax protesters in several states have been arrested and charged with trying to pay taxes with worthless checks bearing Schweitzer's signature. 
Federal agents negotiated with other fugitives at the farm compound, Matteucci said. She would not elaborate. 
"We're not in the position to comment on the operation except that it's ongoing," FBI special agent Ron Van­Vranken said. "We hope to resolve it as soon as we can, peaceably.'' 
.LONDON 
Britain's High Court ruled Tuesday that the govern­ment's refusal of welfare payments and free housing to thousands of asylum-seekers is legal. The government's decision is meant to deter bogus asylum-seekers and re­duce the number of applicants, which has soared in Britain and most other Western countries as legal immi­gration becomes more difficult. The government says thousands of foreigners arrive on visas for students, busi­nessmen or family visits, then claim political asylum because they want to stay for economic reasons. Under the new regulations, people who apply for asylum after arrival, instead of as soon as they land, get no welfare. Nor will applicants who arrived after Feb. 5 -when the new rules took effect -and are appealing a rejection of their asylum request. The new curbs will affect an esti­mated 30,000 asylum-seekers annually. Asylum applica­tions rocketed from 4,000 in 1986 to 50.000 last year. 
Ritalin maker wants to curb abuse 
NEWARK, N.J. 
Stung by reports that schoolchildren are snorting and injecting the drug Ritalin to get high, the primary maker of the hyperactivity medicine has begun a campaign to curb its abuse. Ciba-Geigy Corp. is sending pamphlets on the proper use of the drug to more than 100,000 phar­macists and 110,000 doctors, hoping they will pass them onto school nurses and parents."We want to reach the people who may be treating the medication a little too casually," said Todd Forte, a spokesman for the chemical maker, whose U.S. pharmaceutical headquarters are in Summit, N.J. While Ritalin has been used for more than 40 years, abuse has grown in recent years as more chil­dren are diagnosed with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder, which leaves children inattentive, impulsive and sometimes uncontrollable. The drug interacts with chemicals in the brain to help children concentrate. 

Matteucci would not give details of Monday's arrests. However, local sources said the arrests occurred at the 
small post office a few miles from the freemen's enclave, apparently when the two men went to pick up their mail. 
The freemen have issued thousands of dollars in money orders and checks 
Wedm!'iday, March 27 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditinns and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 27. 

3 5 lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
OHIO 
jlndianapoli3 47° I 

Boston 46 26 Los Angeles 70 54 Philadelphia 51 31
4,~,4q,GQ i) ~a 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 40 30 Miami 81 71 Phoenix 81 57 
Vis Associated Press GraphtcsNet 
Dallas 67 41 New Orleans 76 59 St. Louis 53 38 

• 

COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ 
H L B bS1 !Til 0 1ZJ 8 '¥'" L.....J. G 
HfGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIR AssoCiated PrBtU 

Atlanta 63 53 Denver 52 34 New York 44 33 Baltimore 47 34 Honolulu 82 62 Paducah 53 44 

ILL 

.----------------~--~--------­
W~dn~sday, March 27, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Reflections... SMC fair to offer advice Junior shares story on women's 'wellness' of cancer survival 

By MAUREEN HURLEY Saim Mary's News Editor 
You need a massage. Or maybe you just have a medical question. According to its organizers, this year's Wellness Fair has something to offer everyone. 
In honor of Women's Week at Saint Mary's, the Wellness Center, in conjunction with the student nurses' association and the student government, will present the Wellness Health Fair today. 
Twenty-one organizations will be present at the fair to discuss health issues ranging from nutrition to medical information. 
"All aspects of health and wellness will be covered," said Gloria Chelminiak, coordinator of the Wellness Center. "We're really pleased with the

Tradition and Modernity in African and African American 
contributions from the South Literature" yesterday. Bend community." 
The ObseiVer/Kalle Kroener Anthonia Kalu lectures on "Reflections on Ourselves: 
Along with health profes­sionals being available to an­By KAREN HILKE swer questions, there will also News Writer be numerous hands-on activi­ties, including stress tests and Cancer is a topic not often dis­
exercise demonstrations. cussed, but one that will touch Students praise the efforts of all of our lives, as cancer sur­the Wellness Fair, chaired by vivor Lori Miller attested last Saint Mary's senior Sarah night. A presentation by the McGuire. American Cancer Society helped 
·"It's a wonderful program to to bring out the rarely discussed boost awareness of women's subject of cancer thanks to health concerns on campus," Miller, a junior at Notre Dame. said freshman Amy Johnson. Miller shared her experiences "I think many people will ben­with two diiTerent cases of can­efit from the information given cer as a child and offered advice 
not only on exercise, but also on how to deal with others who on STD's, organ donation and have to deal with this debilitat­nutrition." ing disease. The Wellness Health Fair Miller had her first experience will take place from 2 p.m. to with cancer at only two years of 6 p.m. today in Angela Athletic age when she lost her vision to 
Facility. cancer of the retina. Ten years The event is free and open to later she was diagnosed with a all members of the Saint lump on the jaw that turned out 
Mary's, Notre Dame and South to be cancer of the muscle. 
Bend community, Chelminiak After surviving nine years, 
said. Miller said, "not a day goes by that I don't think about cancer; I live in fear of a recurrence." 
Millersaid that a positive atti­tude is key to surviving the dis­ease. "Successfully beating can­

NOTRE DAME 
cer involves more than the killing of cells, more importantly it involves a positive psyche," 

SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
she said. 

Cancer is a disease that af­fects so much that is not always recognized. It affected Miller's
The planning meeting for the 
life in school by causing her to miss out on her social life while she was growing up. It caused
final issue of the 
her to be the brunt of the laugh­ter from her peers when her
NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
hair began to fall out due to the year and a half of radiation and chemotherapy she had to

will be held 

endure. Cancer also affected her relationship with her sister because it absorbed so much of

Thursday·, March· 28 
her parents' attention. 

Throughout all of this, Miller has remained a positive person who has a strong desire to con­
184 Nieuwland Science Hall 
tinually do all she can to help others cope with this fact of life. Even if one is not personally
6:30 PM 

challenged by cancer right now, the cold and depressing fact is that at some point in one's life
Anyone interested in submitting an article or 
one is bound to be affected by it in some way.
assisting in any part of the production of this 
One method that Miller is par­ticularly interested in is involve­
publication is encouraged to attend. If you are 
ment in the American Cancer Society of Notre Dame in which 
interested in becoming a part of our organization but 
the members work with the pediatric oncology patients at Memorial Hospital. She said 
cannot attend the meeting, please contact us 
by one of the following methods: 
she wishes to initiate a support group for students with cancer or who have survived cancer or who simply have a connection to the disease in some way. 
Miller knows only a small minority who lit into this group at Notre Dame; therefore, there 

· is not a lot of support, she said. However, cancer is so wide­spread that it would be of bene­lit to far more people than one would think. Miller said "people dealing with cancer not only have to worry about their schoolwork, but also have to worry about changes in medi­cine that could seriously affect their health. It would be so helpful to have a group to share the stresses and fears that go along with the disease." 
For those who have to deal with cancer, whether it is with themselves, a family member or a friend, it is very important to stay well informed about the disease. New research is con­stantly developing new tech­niques that everyone needs to be aware of. She emphasized that finding a physician who you are comfortable with and confi­dent in is very important. Also, it is important that the doctor treats patients with respect and compassion, she said. She advised aspiring physicians to always take personal feelings into account and not treat the patient from the medical perspective alone but to try to prepare the patient for what might happen in the most sensi­tive way possible. 
To those who have family members who are battling can­cer, Miller said "it is important to let them know that you are there for them and that you lis­ten and be understanding. Also, you must try to do things that they find enjoyable because even the smallest thing can boost their spirits." 
Nicole Chiappetta, president of the Notre Dame American Cancer Society and the orga­nizer of the presentation said that "awareness of cancer is very important because it af­fects so many of us. Every experience with it that we have creates so many new ideas to help raise awareness and help other cancer survivors." 
For more information about dealing with cancer please con­tact Chiappetta at 634-1318. 

e-mail: scienceq@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
~1£
~ 

ALL ARE WELCOME 
for: 'rbe Association of Colle11e Unions-International Realonal Conference occurr•na on the llotre Dame campus •n lloYemlter I 007 sponsored by tbe oH•ce of Student Act•Y•t•es 
Rules and Regulations 

• 
Must contain and maintain the theme "Discover Gold" 

• 
Other pertinent information: ACU-1 Region 9 Conference November 7-9 1997 University of Notre Dame 

• 
The design must be two-dimensional 

• 
Any medium may be used, i.e. watercolor, colored pencil, charcoal, etc. 

• 
The design should be in color. 

• 
The design must be contained within a 8 I 12 XII inch piece of paper. 

• 
The design must be adaptable for use in various formats, i.e. T-shirts, stationary, signs, promotional items, etc. 

• 
Deadline for all entries is 3:00 PH on April 4, 1996, at the Student Activities Office. 

• 
The selected logo design will become the property of ACU-1 and the University of Notre Dame. 


More information is available from the Office of Student Activities, 3 I 5 Lafortune Student Center. 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
and scholarship. (Secretary), and Anne Parente what we have seen from their "In particular, with respect to (Treasurer) ticket received 54 hard work this year." 


CLC Elections
the fifth recommendation of the percent of the vote. Elevenl For the Class of 1999, the Ad Hoc committee report, percent of the class abstained, Katie Wehby (President), Tysus 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1
which calls for the formation of and an impressive 59 percent Jackson (Vice-President), Nicole executive meeting on Monday to formulate their views on the issue. They then compiled their ideas into a two-page letter sent to O'Hara that same night. The letter states that "We (the CLC) are appreciative of the consultation process with different constituencies and deliberation among the Committee. The Committee's commitment to understand, to listen and to be open to the needs of gay and lesbian stu­dents is a sign of openness and dialogue within our communi­ty. We also appreciate the openness, information and insight of those interviewed by the Committee. "As the Campus Life Council, we strongly encourage and rec­ommend that you accept the report and its recommenda­tions in its entirety. We recog­nize this report is a beginning for the University, but believe it provides us as a University community a framework in which to live with. learn from and be supportive of each other. The structure it offers can provide a direction for our continued development as a community committed to faith 

Ivins 
continued from page 1 
in Texas they don't run the S&L's, shut down the defense plants and get involved in mergers and acquisitions that cost people their jobs." 
Ivins's lecture was the keynote address of the Tribute to Women luncheon. "This event gives the YWCA a chance to recognize the out­standing actions of women in our community," said Mary Ann Matthews, chair of the event. 
Seniors Lauren Aimonette of Notre Dame and Teresa Ann Radostits of Saint Mary's were honored for their service to the community in the college division. 
Aimonette founded the "Ms Wizard Day" at Notre Dame, 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with 

a university student group, we submit the following observa­tions. In any planning of such a group we encourage that you solicit the input of Gays and Lesbians at Notre Dame. 
"We believe their involve­ment in the planning process is important for several reasons. In general, their participation is important to assure the cre­ation of the best option for our gay and lesbian students and to encourage their ownership of any proposed group. 
"More specifically, we are (1) concerned that the formation of a new student group has the potential to divide our gay and lesbian community. We also (2) believe that a group's self-de­termination in planning and functioning is essential to its success. Finally, we (3) feel in­volvement of GLND in the plan­ning process would be a demonstration of appreciation for the group's contribution to our community. 
"Consultation with GLND and sensitivity to these specific is­sues will reaffirm GLND's own­ership of any proposed group and encourage their collective participation." 
which encourages girls to study math and science. She also volunteers at Head Start and the WNDU Children's Storybook Festival. Radostits volunteers at the Center for the Homeless and is involved with liturgy ministry. She was honored with the Saint Catherine Medal and the Sister Maria Pieta Scott scholarship. 
Notre Dame graduate stu­dent Marie Kramb was also honored. While completing her doctoral thesis in English, Kramb has served as coordi­nator of the Gender Studies concentration and is an instructor. 
Two Notre Dame women were nominated for women of the year, Professor of Sociology Joan Aldous in arts and humanities and basketball coach Muffet McGraw in edu­cation. 
of the sophomore class voted. 
on the Rise." 

"We're very excited to repre­
The Pokorny ticket was 

sent the class," McNally said.
unavailable for comment. 

"We want to get as many peo­
"Election violations were also 

ple involved as possible, in
cited in the Class of 1998 race. 

order to represent the class's
The Shannon Crunk (President), 

diversity. We intend to carry
Meg Couturier (Vice-President), 

out all the things listed on our
Meghan Theard (Secretary), 

platform, in order to accom­
and Alice Caruso (Treasurer) 

plish our slogan, 'We will work
ticket was also penalized 15 
hard to play hard."'
percent of their votes for turn­

McNally explained that her
ing in their campaign receipts 

ticket would like to carry on the
after 5 p.m. on Monday, a 

tradition of Saint Mary's as
guideline stated in the Election 

strong women, and work to
Policies. 

raise spirit at Saint Mary's. 
After the violation, Crunk 

"We are happy to work with
earned 30 percent of the vote, 

the McNally ticket," Couturier
while the Meghan McNally 

commented. "We know that
(President), Emily Broussard 

they will do a great job from
(Vice-President), Anne Geisler home to the "boiling frog phe­nomenon" wherein a frog does

Moe 

not leap from a pot which is slowly heated. Politics in thecontinued from page 1 
U.S. similarly became a culture making at home floundered, of mixed ambitions and motives selling out to a supposed free­which heated up. dom which failed to incorporate Future relations with Vietnam consistent values. are dependent on whether the 
·"The measure of what we did U.S. is accountable for the mis­reflected what we had become. takes of the past. Crucial I feel what we must do is heal lessons for upcoming policy our personal wounds first if we problems can only be learned by ever hope to heal the past." healing the wounds, he said. 
Motives behind policy deci­"We wanted to help Vietnam sions during Vietnam were born all along. It does not work from a larger picture related to though when we still have to get the Cold War situation. They our house in order." manifested horribly for those in Moe targeted current resentful Vietnam. attitudes towards Vietnamese as 
Moe focused on the need for indicative of the lack of honest the nation to come to terms with assessment. the lies committed by the gov­"If you don't think that we ernment. He cited his own committed atrocities then we experience with deliberate lies are not facing the horror of war. by the government during his People get into war and think service as a fighter pilot. While that there are no more rules 
he was aware of certain infor­and it is horrible. Some days it mation about political matters at 
home, upon consulting with his .-------------------------... 
parents from Vietnam, Moe learned their information was in direct contrast. Repairing the national attitude towards Vietnam requires that the past be addressed with truth. 
"We threw away our rules and principles during the Cold War ... in Vietnam we see a disinte­gration of ethics born on frus­tration." 
Moe compared the politics at 

lace, sexual tedtopics; ·\·~-­






E U R 0 P E 
~·-..w.·.·~,.........w.w 
' 

For more information call Kelly at 634-2960
LONDON S27S FRHNHFURT $349 PH HIS $309 

THE TOTALLY AWESOME
HMSTERDHM S37S MHORID S37S 

Fares are from Indianapolis. each waq based on aHT purchase. Fares 

SO'S DINNER
do nollnc\ude federal lues and passe~~ger faciliHes charges. Which Cilll totill between SI9.9S and S31.9S. depending on 111e desHnaHon. n01 do 11leq Include departure charges paid rlirect1q to to !Vre~n gov· emments. urllicb Cilll tolill between $300 and SGO.OO.Irt IStudent 10 
Thursday 4.30 till 6.30 
maq be required. Fares are su~ect to change. RestricHons alliiiQ Yalid for departures until 31 Haq 199& 
(Supper Time) 
Europ~55fromS210 
In Ye O{tfe g{prtfi tiJining J!a[[
Travel 


--~~~---~ 
CIEE: Council on International 
Relive the Worst Songs of Your Life! 
Educational Exchange on !he Web: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
(they're pretty great, though) 
l-800-2-COUNCIL 
FROM AND

s.u.b. wvfi
[1-800-226-86241 

Gender and Communication 
·~.....">.., / 

iiitheJWot lace
~ . .. . :-.. :::-:. ·'·''·········=····· .... . . ,, ·,·:·,·:: .. 
.... jjF
j 

··~ -r"'#/ · March 30th, ,1.~96. \'::1r 
11. a.m. to 3. C.S.C. 1/! 


Thel ment any"'
' 

resume such as 
Kraimer (Secretary), and Melissa Kill (Treasurer) ticket, who ran unopposed, received 66 percent of the vote. 
Thirty-three percent of the class abstained, and 30.7 per­cent of the total freshman class voted. 
"We will continue to accom­plish the goals that we began in class office this year. We want to plan a great Sophomore Parents Weekend and continue our project to build a house for charity," Jackson said. 
Voting in the runoff election for the Class of 1997 will take place from 7:30 a.m. to 2 p.m., and 4:30 p.m. to 7 p.m., Thursday in the dining hall. 
was Vietnamese and some days it was American." 
Moe believes isolationist ten­dencies are a reactive response towards not only Vietnam, but foreign policy on the whole. The problem is finding the mix between isolationism and mili­tary intervention. Moe referred to his own career in the Air Force and his struggle in relat­ing intervention for the sake of other humans versus the risk of soldiers lives. 
His personal attitude toward Vietnam is optimistic, said Moe, who hopes the beauty of Vietnam will again be realized. Despite spending live years as a POW, he exemplifies an ability to put the war in perspective as a fault of all sides. Continual bitterness and blame on others will not benefit the future dia­logue with Vietnam. 
Moe, class of 1975, is a former professor of Aerospace Studies at Notre Dame. 



The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Purchasing Manager 
Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Matt Casey or Joe Hartzell@ 631-5313 or drop off your resume at The Observer Office, room 314 in LaFortune. 
• Resumes are due by 5:00PM on Friday, March 29TH 

Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
page 5 


Americans 'too busy' for morality 
Swindler probes role of ethics in today's society 
By EMILY DIXON 
New\ Wrilcr 
"l'nopln are too tired, busy and worn out to worry about htdng sinful," said Ann Swindlt~r. and it is this pnriod of social disinverstrnent which has shapnd morality in today's world. 
As part of the Provost's I >istinguishcd Visiting Lecturer Snrins, Ann Swindler, a sociolo­gy pr·ofnssor at tho Univflrsity of California-Bnrkolny, gavo a lt!<:ture nntilled, "Thr, Moral lnfrastruelurn of American Socit~ly" on Tunsday. 
Many pnopln lwlinve in an aflPr-lifn. hut the numbr,rs who lwlinvn in a hell arn dr,emasing dramatically. This "uncondi­tional positivn rnganl" id1m that whatnvnr ft~Piings of inadnqua­ey diminish bncause wr, think that Cod lovns us uncondition­ally is probltHnatic. It is mod­nrn life's "snnsn of dnplr,tion and 1~xhaustion ... that makes pt~oplr~ nned constant rnassur­ancns I from God 1." said Swindler. 
In today's society, we think we must become stronger, more independent individuals who "do not need any social connection to others," said Swindler. According to Swindler, this perception is based on a misunderstanding of social life. 
We seem to believe that "everything in society is dirty, unfair, ... outright evil" and that we must create our own private societies in order to be fulilled. A product of the '60s, this cynieal view towards social institutions has had undesired effects. In reality, institutions are necessary for the moral health of society; "institutions . . . seek the common good," said Swindler. 
For example, our mistrust in government officials has led us to limit their terms in office. Even though there might be less corruption as a result, fewer good things happen because officials with shorter tnrms lack the ability to follow through with their promises. 
As a soeiety, we need a social infrastucture we can rely on in order to be whole. Swindler said, "There is actually a wide range of agreement on many 

The Observer/Katie Kroener 

Ann Swidler lectures on "The Moral Infrastructure of American Society" yesterday. 
things among Americans." We share many of the same values deeply and there are really no deep lines in our value system that divides us as in other cul­tures, she said. 
Therefore, in order to rebuild the endowment of our shared culture, we should focus on helping others, Swindler said. "If [we] fufill the world, [we] will in turn be fuhlled." 

• Transferable courses offered days, 
j Pleas~s~d;Uni~rsity of Pittsburgh
evenings and Saturdays. 
I Summer 1996 Schedule of Classes to: • 4, 6, and 12-week sessions starting 
1Name___________________________________ 
in May, June and July. 
I Mailing addr"-Ssi__________________________ 
• Easy registration by mail. 1 
Cry·_________________Scate_____Zip•_____
• Economical tuition for PA residents.! ' I Telephone ( __)__________________________ 
REGlSTRATlQN BEGlNS MARCH 11 I !learned of the UniversityofPirtsburgh's Summer Sessions from 
To request a Summer 1996 Schedule... II a newspaper ar__________University/College. Mail the coupon at right 
I

Call (412) 383-8600, or I Mail to: University Summer Sessions University of Pittsburgh
E-mail summer+@pitt.edu 
I 405 Carhedral of Learning I Pirrsburgh, PA 15260-6119. 
L___________--~..-_______________ _j 
Internet service gives students social info 
By BRENDAN BOYLE 
News Writer 
College students now have their own university-well, sort of. Internet University is a new service for college stu­dents on the World Wide Web. It offers numerous fun and helpful resources, as well as offering students a centralized location for services, including concerts corning to their town and wacky games. 
Trista Warner is the creator of this new site. She created it with the first time Internet user in mind . 
IU (not to be confused with the one in Bloomington) appeared on the Internet just a few months ago and now has over 125,000 users weekly. Warner believes, "It's a great way to get college students from all across the country to­gether. After all, college stu­dents use the Internet more than anybody." 
Some of IU's unique features include: Net Vote 96, which provides an interactive forum for learning about political issues; Punchline, which pro­vides a cartoon graphic and lets the user add their own witticisms; Connection, which allows students to talk to eaeh other; and Knowledge for Col­lege, a department that is made for students interested in conducting research without leaving their room. 
Warner hopes that Internet University will beeome the place where all college stu­dents first turn for news, entertainment and services. At the pace IU is growing, it just might. lU can be found on the World Wide Web at http://www.internetuniv.corn. 
• HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL 
Badin wins Rockne Award for excellence 
By DEBORAH SCHULTZ Assistant News Editor 
Hall Presidents' Council an­nounced Badin Hall as the win­ner of the January/February Rockne Award at their meeting last night held at Morrissey Hall. 
The Hockne Award is an award given to the dorm that shows the most innovative ideas in planning activities through­out the hall. HPC chooses a winner every two months, and the selection process is based on the activity sheets each dorm must turn in documenting their activities for those two months. 
The Rockne Award is a four­foot trophy passed around to the winning dorm exhibiting excellence in community ser­vice, social diversity, and partic­ipation. 
Also in HPC news, Student Body Vice-President Dennis 
McCarthy announced multicul­turalism as the topic to be pre­sented to the Board of Trustees. "We solicited ideas from stu­dents and organizations to get ideas for a panel discussion. We had many people submit topics and the broad topic we decided on is multiculturalism. We now have applications that we would like people to fill out if they would like to contribute to the Board of Trustees discus­sion," said McCarthy. 
"We realize that multiculturalism is a very broad topic and so we would like peo­ple to keep in mind gender, reli­gion, and sexual orientation, along with ethnicity. We would like as many people as possible to participate, and you can sub­mit applications as a student, a dorm, or an organization," said McCarthy. 
Applications are available in the student government office. 
THURSDAY, MARCH 28, 1996 
DIANNE PINDERHUGHES 
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-­URBANA-CHAMPAIGN 
"WHY THERE WILL BE AN N.A.A.C.P. IN THE 21ST CENTURY" 
4:15P.M. ROOM 124 CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Dianne Pinderhughes is Profes~or of Political Science and Afro-American Studies, and Director of the Afro-American Studies and Research Program at the University of Illinois. Urbana-Champaign. She is the author of Race and Ethnicl!yJ.r1 Chicago Politics (1987). and book chapters on race, public policy, and electoral politics. Prof. Pinderhughes has also published numerous articles, including several tor the National Urban League's State of Black Americ!! series. She holds a Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago. 
For mora .nlormahon  The Httnkals V11111ng  Co-Sponso<od by·  
please contact Dr.  Scholar• Sar~es IS a  AlriCan-Amertean  
Roland B. Srmth, Jr.  Program ol the College  Stud•• Program, Oapt  
or Dr D11v1d L Hay,  of Arla and L.etlers,  or Soc101ogy, Cent.,  
The Urban Institute,  and IS mada pOSSible  lor Soc1al Concern.,  
Umv o1 Notre Dame,  by a g~MOUS endow­ and U.ban lnat11u1a tor  
Tel (219)631--«1798 or  ment proVIded by Paul  Community and  
631·9015  M. & Barbara Henkels  EducatiOnal lmllatlvaa.  

Upcoming Series Speakers: 
Tu~s. April 9th: Norman Francis. Room 124, C.S. C. Thurs., April I 8th: Charl~s Willi~. Room I 24, C.S. C. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
Many view feminism as a call for discourse on women's is­

Fed maintains interest rates Foru01 
sues. ''There should be no need 

Greenspan hopes to minimize future inflation 
By DAVE SKIDMORE Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Faced with evidence the economy has overcome a weak spot early this year, the Federal Reserve yesterday decided to hold short-term interest rates steady. 
The announcement came just 15 minutes before Fed Chair­man Alan Greenspan sat down before the Senate Banking Committee, which will pass judgment on whether he should be confirmed to a third four-year term in a job that many consider the second­most-powerful in government. 
"The economy seems at this particular stage ... to be run­ning at a reasonably good clip," Greenspan said. "The unemployment rate is lower than at any time in the recent past." 
And, citing the Fed's perpet­ual concern with containing in­flation, he said "price stability ... is an essential element in enabling the economy to reach its full potential." 
Just before his appearance, a spokesman for the central bank, Joseph Coyne, said the Fed's monetary policy-making panel had ended its meeting at 
10:35 a.m. EST and that, "there is no further an­nouncement" -a change of current rates will not occur soon. 
Usually the announcement comes at around 2 p.m., but it was made earlier yesterday to accommodate the timing of Greenspan's Capitol Hill ap­pearance. 
When Greenspan appeared before Congress a month ago, he was able to hold out the tantalizing hint that he might soon trim interest rates to pep up the faltering economic growth. 
But since then there's been a spate of positive economic re­ports, including a surprising 
IRISH CouNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
1Jze Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 
Moose Krause House 
or other approved homes for Graduation, Football Weekends, and Special Events 
To reserve: 

Calll219)277·7003 • Fax (2191273·2455 

surge of job creation in Febru­ary that pushed the nation's unemployment rate to 5.5 per­cent from 5.8 percent. 
Republican senators praised Greenspan lavishly. The com­mittee chairman, Sen. Alfonse D'Amato, R-N.Y.. promised to move his and two other Fed nominations expeditiously to the full Senate, where a vote was expected this week. 
"His wisdom and experience have helped avert several glob­al financial crises. In fact, Alan Greenspan is properly known as the world's pre-eminent central banker," D'Amato said. 
Sen. Kit Bond, R-Mo .. said Greenspan has his "whole­hearted endorsement," adding, "Under his adept leadership, the U.S. economy has achieved an unprecedented level of sta­bility." 
Panel members also indicat­ed their support for the other nominees: Alice Rivlin. to be vice chairman, and Laurence 
H. Meyer. 
Rivlin is director of the Office of Management and Budget. Meyer is a respected economic forecaster and professor at Washington University in St. Louis. 
Greenspan last appeared be­fore lawmakers on Feb. 20 and 21 when reports showed the new year off to what the cen­tral bank chairman termed a dismal start and analysts were predicting an imminent cut in interest rates. 
With more positive economic news lately, including gains in retail and home sales and fac­tory orders, analysts believed the Fed would see no immedi­ate need to cut rates. 
At the Fed's last monetary 
Consumer confidence 
From a monthly survey of 5,000 U.S. households. 
llt*&'B'Inde~~-~~~ 
1985 =100 
110 
100 90 80 ··tilll~i-1· + ··:····+···+··+····+·····i·····l 

70 1--~~T=·--··+··+····[··t·· t··········t·····l 60 50 40 30 
1-+ +·····-,·····--··Hi··+-·+ ·.,-···!··1 
20 l·i··'···--·--··i·--·f···+·····f··-i··+·······t····l 
101·····'···--'···;····!···········•·····•f····j--··:······t ·l 
1995 1996 

Source: The Conference Board AP 
policy meeting before today's, on Jan. 31, it cut the short­term rate banks charge among themselves on overnight loans for the third time in seven months. 
The changes pushed the Fed's target for the federal funds rate, the interest that banks charge each other on overnight loans, from 6 per­cent down to 5.25 percent. 
As a pre-emptive strike against inflation, the Fed had bumped up the rate seven times between February 1994 and February 1995. 
Fed policy-makers will not meet again until May 21, fol­lowed by a July 2-3 meeting. Many analysts believe there's still a chance the Fed will cut rates in May if there are signs of new economic softness. But that's likely to be all for quite some time. 
continued from page I 
to Kaminski's, Murphy found that 31 percent of those sur­veyed did not identify with femi­nism to be "interesting and ironic." 
One factor against feminism on campus is that, " at times it's almost like our setting [as a women's college] can allow us to entertain the fantasy that equality has been achieved," Kaminski said. 
She stated, "Another 'F word' connected to feminism and Saint Mary's is fear." 
The panel viewed this to be a result of the stereotypes attached with feminism, includ­ing the terms "male-bashing" and "femi-nazi." 
"There's a negative stereotype of being a feminist," said Maria Rivas. However, she added that being in a women's college environment contributes to breaking down those stereo­types. "At Saint Mary's you're free to become a feminist. You're encouraged to develop your own ideas of feminism." 
Melissa Novock agreed, stat­ing that women's issues are stressed in the classroom. "There is a strong connection between feminism and Saint Mary's in academics," she said. "Ironically, in terms of being in the dorms and in talking with other students. feminism is of­ten ignored." 
for the label feminism, but for right now, it helps us to identify with eachother, and talk about these issues," said Chiara Marcheschi. 
Calling it a "sacred moment," Kaminski viewed yesterday's forum as an integral part in promoting that discussion. "I think tonight is an important part of the process. The fact that it this happened shows that it [feminism] has meaning on this campus," she said. "Something is really happening here in terms of empower­ment." 
Women's week continues to­morrow, with an open micro­phone stage at 9 p.m. at Dalloway's. The movie "Chantilly Lace" will be shown Thursday at 6 p.m. in Carroll Auditorium, with a discussion to follow. 
The week ends with the "Womyn's Solidarity March" Friday. The march begins with a "speakout" discussion at Stonehenge at 7 p.m. Following the speakout, there will be a candlelight march to Saint Mary's. The march will end at Haggar, where there will be music and refreshments in room 304. 
The event is sponsored by the Saint Mary's Women's Center, along with the Women's Resource Center and the Gender Studies Program at Notre Dame. 

Please Recycle The Observer 
The Observer 
is now hiringfor a position on the: 
Production Staff 
• Gain valuable computer experience 
• Work evening hours 
• Excellent income opportunity 

Wednesday, March 27, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Esteemed Maine statesman Muskie dead at 81 
daughters and seven grand­children. Burial will be in Ar­lington National Cemetery on Saturday after a funeral Mass in the Little Flower Church in Bethesda, Md. 
A crucial incident, devastat­ing to his campaign for the 1972 Democratic presidential nomination, occurred in New Hampshire while Muskie was speaking outside the Manchester Union Leader newspaper, denouncing a story critical of his wife. 
He broke down in angry emo­tion; it was not dear whether he was crying or his face was wet with snow. 
No matter. The episode "t:hanged people's minds about me, of what kind of guy I was," he later told author Theodore 
H. White. "They were looking for a strong, steady man, and here I was weak." 
The man who won the nomi­nation, George McGovern, said Tuesday, "I never believed that ... diminished him in the least. Indeed, it was an indication of his humanity and his essential decency." 
McGovern lost in a landslide to Richard Nixon in the general election. Muskie returned to the Senate. 
U.S. probes 
China's sale of nukes 
By GEORGE GEDDA 
Associated Pre$s 
WASHINGTON 
Relieved by eased tensions between China and Taiwan, the Clinton administration today addressed concerns the Chinese are exporting nuclear-related materials. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher and other senior officials were called to the White House to assess the sit· uation and consider options, including penalties against offending Chinese firms. 
"It's a very complicated fac­tual situation," Christopher told reporters at the State Department. "We'll be study· ing concrete cases, and we'II let you know what our reac­tion is." 
China today denied that it sold nuclear weapons technol­ogy to Pakistan or missiles to Iran, contrary to U.S. allega­tions. 
Washington believes that China sold Pakistan spedal­ized magnetic rings used in centrifuges that enrich urani· um -an ingredient of nuclear weapons. 
As for Taiwan, Defense Secretary William Perry said today the Chinese troops that participated in recent weeks in live-lire exercises there are returning to their barracks. 
"I think this particular crisis is behind us now," Perry told a business conference. 
The Navy's top officer, Adm. Mike Boorda, said in an inter­view the aircraft carrier USS Independence, which had been monitoring China's maneuvers off Taiwan's northern shore, will return soon to its base in Japan. Boorda said a decision has not been made on how long a sec­ond U.S. currier, the USS Nimitz, will t·emain in the area before returning home to Bre­merton, Wash. 
The administration barely had time Monday to savor the relaxation between Beijing and Taipei before the nuclear exportation issue arose. 

The former secretary of state Americans held hostage by wings in the Senate. 
Environmentalist 
died of heart failure early Tues­Iran. "Ed Muskie was a patriot," day, two days shy of his 82nd "I have never known any said Republican leader Bobremembered birthday. He underwent American leader who was more Dole. "The state of Maine and surgery last week in George­highly qualified to be president America are better because of
for convictions town University Hospital for a of the United States," Carter Ed Muskie's life and career." blocked artery in his leg, then said in tribute. "His coolness To Sen. Fritz Hollings, D-S.C.,
Hy HARRY ROSENTHAL 
suffered a heart attack a few under pressure and his sound Muskie was "perhaps, the most
A~~~~ti.a1nl Pn·\.~ 
days later. judgment helped him play a cogent persuader on the !loor His was a life of public office. crucial role in bringing all the of the United States Senate....
WASHINGTON 

Three-term state legislator in American hostages home from Time and again, he gave of
Edmund Muskie operated at 
his native Maine, twice gover­Iran to safety and freedom, and himself. His brand of tireless
tlw highest reaches of Ameri­
~~an polities but he was remem­nor of the state, U.S. senator for he was always careful to give public service is vanishing." ben~d on the day hn died for his 22 years, Democratic nominee credit to others for this achieve­And Sen. Edward Kennedy, for vice president in 1968, can­ment." D-Mass., called him "a sena­
intellect and honesty, not for 
didate for president in 1972. President Clinton called tor's senator. I liked to think of
the jobs he held. "llis brand of 
He left his beloved Senate, Muskie "a leader in the best him as being the foremost au­
tin~Iess public service is vanish­
where he had championed sense." thority on the environment."
ing," said a former Senate col­
clean air and clean water legis­"He spoke from his heart and Sen. Robert Byrd, D-W.Va.,
league. 
Muskie will also be recalled lation, to become secretary of acted with conviction," Clinton said, "Senator Muskie's place state in the Carter administra­said. in history is assured."
as the man who may have lost a 
tion. As such, he helped oversee Praise for Muskie, a Demo­Muskie leaves Jane, his wife
presidential nomination by 
the successful efforts to free 52 crat, came from both political of 47 years, two sons, three
choking up in public. 
POP QUIZ 

1. How many times have you missed 
a) 
None. 


b) 
Fewer than five times. c) 1 800 CALL ATT. 

d) 
Where's Dylan? 



2. Someone calls you collect, using 1 800 CALL ATT. What happens? 
a)· You accept because you and the person calling are automatically entere,d .to 'llfin an internship on•Beverly Hills, 90210~ 
• 4 • ' ~ ' 
b) 
You accept because it always costs less than 1 800 COLLECT.* 

c) 
You accept because he/she might be Dylan. 

d) 
All the above. 


3. What's the best thing to do while watching Beverly Hills, 90210'"'? 
a) 
Study. 


b) 
Listen to David's rap song. 

c) 
Hope for a guest appearance by Dylan. 

d) 
Call a friend collect using 1 800 CALL ATT (you might win the Beverly Hills, 90210"' internship and listen to David's rap song in person). 


4. You have to call your parents for money. Select the most appropriate scenario: 
a) 
You use 1 800 CALL ATT because you know you'll get more money out of them. 

b) 
You use 1 800 CALL ATT because that way you'll get another chance to win the Beverly Hills, 90210"' internship. 

c) 
You're doing it to get a bigger TV set. 

d) 
All the above. 



Ill 1q1 UO dJqiUJIIUJ Ul UJM 01 P8J81U8 IJI 8UIIJI~ IJ,noA UOIJ8d 1q1 PUI noA pU8 OIJ!Jdy pUI MOU U88M}&q J.J.Y llY:l 008 I BUlin 1180 1~8110~ I IOIId 'llliiMSNY 
II 

AT&T
CALL 
YourTrue Choice 
It! 1996 AT&T "1 800 COLLECT IS a regiStered trademark of MCI 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
Dole declares victory after California win 
Associated Press 
The 72-year-old Kansas Senator Bob Dole locked up the nomination with a four-state primary sweep last week, but he waited a week to declare victory so that he could give giant California the credit for putting him over the top on this third try for a Republicanpresidential nomi­nation. 
Republican Party Chairman Haley Barbour ended his neu­trality in the primary fight and his words were more than sym­bolic: Dole has spent most of his primary money, and the party is prepared to step in and absorb as much of his travel expenses and other costs as al­lowed. 
"From today forward, the Republican Party is going to be focused on everything we can do this spring and summer to help Bob Dole beat Bill Clinton and send him back to Arkansas," Barbour said in an interview. 
As Dole looked toward a showdown with Clinton, he could not ignore the lurking shadow of Ross Perot, who be­gan a busy stretch of travel to promote his new Reform Party just as the presidential primary calendar finally gave Dole the chance to plan a vacation. 
"If you think a new party is a good idea, we'd love to have you join," Perot told a Tuesday night Texas A&M audience, criticizing both Democrats and Republicans for failing to keep their promises. He bristled at a few questions, snapping at one student who asked why she should support his new Reform Party, "I don't care whether you vote for our party or not." 
Dole tried anew to convince the Texan to stay on the side­lines. 
"The one barrier to what Ross and his supporters believe in is Bill Clinton," Dole said in the interview. 
He said he had given no seri­ous thought to picking a run­ning mate, and that while he considered it unlikely, had not ruled out making his choice well before the August GOP convention. 
"It would add some excite­ment," he said. "But the down­side is there would be two peo­ple out there for the other side to take shots at." 
Not all the rumblings about 
It keeps more than memones 

alive. 
. ,__ Amencan Heart~ Association...~ 
Fighting Heart Disease and Stroke 
AMERICAN HEART ASSCX:IATION MEMORIALS & TRIBUTES 
~ 
1-800-AHA-USA1 
This space provided as a public service. @1994, American Heart Association 
third-party candidacies were 
bad for Dole. Liberal consumer 
advocate Ralph Nader, already 
on the California ballot as the 
Green Party candidate, said he 
would try to qualify in New 
York, another must-win state 
for Clinton. 
Both Dole and Buchanan 
were eager for some rest, a 
luxury afforded by a campaign 
calendar that puts 
Pennsylvania next on April 23. 
In a decision that frustrated 
some California Republicans, 
Dole was celebrating in Wash­
ington -confetti cannons and 
all. But Dole promised not to 
repeat George Bush's strategy 
of ceding California to Clinton. · California and Washington 
GOP voters surveyed after they 
voted registered profound un­
happiness with affirmative ac­
tion programs: Half said they 
should be ended outright, a 
third said they should be 
changed. 
There was more of a split on 
immigration, a centerpiece 
Buchanan issue: half in Cali­
fornia said immigrants should 
always be welcomed to the 
United States; slightly fewer 
shared Buchanan's view that 
the United States couldn't 
afford any more. Washington 
voters were slightly more wel­
coming. 
Buchanan voters were decid­
edly downbeat about the econ­
omy, believing by a 2-to-1 mar­
gin that their standard of living 
would fall. 
To Dole supporters, pocket­
book issues came first. They 
said his experience in Washing­
ton was important, and they 
felt more confident about their 
future and more positive 
toward immigrants. On the 
down side, only 6 in 10 
Republican voters thought Dole 
could beat Clinton in 
November. And asked who they 
would support in November, a 
quarter preferred Clinton or 
Buchanan, if he ran as an inde­
pendent. 
Given a say on Dole's choice 
of a running mate, half the 
California voters picked Colin 
Powell over two home-state 
politicians: Gov. Pete Wilson 
and Attorney General Dan Lun­
gren, who split the other half. 
The surveys were conducted by 
Voter News Service, a consor­
tium of The Associated Press 
and television networks. 


HUMAN RIGHTS 
CAMPAIGN 
Thursda4, March 28 111 Debartolo Hall 7:30PM 
'Mad cow' scare hits Ireland 
By ROBERT SEELY 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Irish police patrolled the border with Northern Ireland today to block British cows from slipping in and British Airways said it has stopped serving British beef to children as fears about mad cow disease raged on. 
Thailand joined the list of more than 20 countries that have banned imports of British beef. One, France, announced it will start stamping "French Meat" on domestic beef in an attempt to reassure consumers. 
''I'm not eating any more beef," Patrick Henry, a 23-year-old security guard, said in the daily Le Parisien today. "Even French beef doesn't tempt me anymore. This mad cow disease worries me." 
But Health Secretary Stephen Dorrell 
insisted today that beef remains "a safe product," and claimed Britain's critics have got l't wrong. 
"I agree with The Sun newspaper this morning which says it isn't the cows that are mad, it's the people that are going mad," Dorrell told BBC radio. "Livelihoo_ds 
are being threatened by gossip." ­
The revolt against British beef started Wednesday, when Dorrell announced that scientists believe the cattle disease was the 
"most likely" cause of 10 human cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a similar degen­erative illness. At least eight victims have died. 
The government admission has sent the $6 billion British beef industry into a free fall. 
Scientists say mad cow disease was caused by the practice of supplementing cattle feed with sheep offal infected with the brain-wast­ing disease scrapie. Such feed was banned in 1989. 
Dorrell told Parliament on Monday that the risk of getting Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease was 
Mad cow disease 
The mad rxm scare threw Britian's $6 billion beel industry into crisis when the government acknowledged that the caHie. disease is the most likely source of a similar brain disease 
that h,as struck 10 young Britons. 

use of sheep 

2 Contaminated came ·.""'-/·:·
.. :·;x~,

slaughtered, meat 
distributed. 
3 Humansareinfectedwhen 
meat is ingested. 
Symptomsor 
Creutztfetdt·Jakob disease: 
Speechusennd 
~m j
01p",P,·,r::"d'"sion
Visu11;~nilure \. 1 j Rnpid. demsrnting .. ./ dememw 
1 f Spmticlimb .................... \ 
parnlysis \ . 
Ahnormlllmotor·nen-e ' ' 
conrml; trrmors and·rigidily 

'88 '90 '92 '94 '96 'as ol March 
1
80,000 


. 
In tons, 1994 
11.330 
~:;~

! Ireland S. Africa Belgium/ · lux. 
France Netherlands Germany 

"extremely small." lie maintained no new action was needed to rid British herds of the disease, although Britain has 400 times the number of mad cow cases as all other coun­tries combined. 
But the Consumers' Association -one of Britain's most influential independent watch­dogs -has advised consumers to stop eating beef. 

BE A f'ART OF PLANNING YOUR Jf'W!!! Af'f'L Y FOR A POSITION ON THE 
19971Pw EXECUTIVE COMMIDEE!!! OON'f MISS OU11!!!!!!!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT THE LAFORTUNE INFO DESK APPLICATIONS ARE DUE IN 315 LAFORTUNE BY 5PM MARCH 29 


Elizabe-th 
~lrch on 
"GOD, GAYS, AND RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS: AT THE CROSSROAD OF 
CONSCIENCE" 
Elizabeth Birch is Executive Director of the Human Rights Campaign, the country's largest national lesbian and gay poli~ical o!ganization. Pri~r to her appointment at the Human Rights Campa1gn, B1rch ~as worldw1d~ director of litigation for Apple Computer, where she was mstrumental1n the development of Apple's landmark domestic partnership and non-discrimination policies. 
Made possible through the sponsorship of. 
Center for Social Concerns Graduate Student Union Government and International Studies University Counseling Center Gender Studies Program White Center for Law and Government 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Parricia Carson Man Casey Tom Rol~nd 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager............................ Ellen Ryan 
Vi.wpoint Editor ..................Mcaghan Smith Ad Desipn Manager ........................:·;····le~ .Peters 
Spon• Editor ...........•.........Timothy Sherman Producuon Manager....................... I ara Gneshop 
A<ecnt Editor...........................jocy Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Scan Galla van 
Saint Mary's Editor................. Carolinc Blum Controller..........................................Tyler Weber 
Jlhoto Editor ..........................Michad Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the Universiry of Notre ll<~rn~ du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It docs not necessarily reflect rhe policies of tlu: adminisrra­rion of either institution. The news is reponed as accurarc:ly and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­lnrial~ represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, MJnilging Editor, News Editor, Vinvpnint Ediror, A(t'Cnt Edirur, Phmo Edimr, Sport.~ Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, :mJ nor necessarily those nfThe Ohserver. Viewpoim space is available to all members ofrhe Norrc Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to all reader!-.. The free expression of varying opinions through leHcrs is encouraged. 
Observer l'honc Lines 
Ediwr-in-C:hief 6j1-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editnr/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spurr~ 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 New~/l)luHo 631-~3H Office Manager 631-7471 A,·,·enr/Sainc Mary's 6.11-4540 Fax 631-6927 llJy l'diwr/l'ruduuion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.I@nd.edu t;cncrallnfnrmariun 631-7471 Ad E-Mail ohserver@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

page 9 

COJ~-\~ 
~ --~ 

• DESIDERATA 
Loving and hating the 'Bad Boys' of basketball 
It's June, 1989, and I'm on the phone with my boyfriend, Dan. My mother ealls to me from the T.V. room to let me know the Detroit Pistons are on the news. Still exuberant over their reeent victory whieh gave them the status of NBA World Champions, I rush into the T.V. room to see what's being discussed. My joy. however. soon turns to horror. "Dan," I shriek. ''I'll have to call you baek." I hang up the phone and attempt to deal with the fact that the Pistons have just traded my favorite player, Hick Mahon1. 
Looking baek on this fateful day, I rPeall that it presented me with a real dilemma. When the Pistons played the 7ll'nrs from then on, for whom would I dwer'? The Pistons. of course, were my absolute favorite team back then; you eould say I was a bit fanatieal about them. But the "Bad Boys" who had worked so hard togetlwr to win the championship, were now separated. Dt~spite my love of the Pistons, I couldn't vt~ry well root against Hick Mahorn, who was. at heart, just as mueh a part of the team as anyone else. Would I look like a total idiot dwering for both teams? I low these qw~stions plagued me! 
As an avid NBA fan. however, I've realizml that other people aren't nearly so disturbed by these situations as am I. Although it seems backwards to me, other fans appear to have no problem loving or hating a particular player sole­ly based upon what jersey he's wearing. 
A few weeks ago, the Chicago Bulls played the Pistons in Detroit, and I watdwd the game on T.V. (Mind you, these games used to be hard issues for me too, beeause I love my home team as much as I once loved the Pistons. But now that only one of the Bad Boys of 'HH-'HIJ remains in Detroit, I can safely say that my loyalties, on balance, arc with tlw Bulls.) 
Anyhow, as I tried to enjoy the game, I found mysnlf sidetracked by the appar­ent animositf the speetators had towards Dennis Hodman. I felt like screaming at these people! Don't they get it? Dennis was a major faetor in the two recent ehampionships of which Detroit ean boast. He didn't leave the Pistons by ehoice; he was traded. (Not to mention that he's simply adorable. llow can anyone dislike this guy'?) So what was the reason the fans greeted him with boos and hisses? The only reason I could eome up with was that he wasn't 
Kirsten Dunne 

wearing a Detroit jersey. And illogically enough, the fact that he had onee been a Piston seemed to make the spectators dislike him even more than they did other non-Pistons. I was so irked by this juvenile attitude that I had a hard time even concentrating on the game. (Of course, they got it back in the end, when the Bulls came through in O.T. to win the game, largely thanks to apple-of-my­eye Dennis Rodman. That'll show 'em!) 
Then, a little more recently, I attended a Bulls-Pistons game here in Chicago, and noticed a different type of phenome­non. For those of you who don't know, three of my very own beloved Bad Boys-James Edwards, John Salley, and, of course, Dennis-are now Chicago Bulls. Needless to say, this thrills the sentimentalist in me, and I rooted them all on emphatically. However, I remem­ber another time, long ago, when I'd cheer these guys on in the Chicago Stadium, and things were much differ­ent. Not only was I about the only per­son cheering; I could also be identified as the person at whom all the profani­ties-and sometimes debris-were being directed. At this last game, However, absolutely everyone seemed to love these guys. Practically every sign in the crowd indicated an affinity for Dennis Hodman. And when out-of-practice Spider Salley came out in the last minute of the game, the crowd gave him special encouragement as he stood at the free-throw line, followed by deafen­ing praise when he mad the shot. 
I thought it was great that everyone arm.md me finally loved these guys as much as I did. Not that I ever minded being the center of attention in my Pistons shirt; I was simply glad to see some of my favorite players getting the appreciation I'd always thought they deserved. 
Of course, this change of circum­stances scared me a little, too. It used to be that when these guys came into Chicago, they were treated like the antiehrist. Why, all of a sudden, does everyone adore them so? There seems to be no explanation , save the jersey theory. And that's why I felt a bit ner­vous: that means the crowd';s enthusi­asm is very transient. John Salley signed two 11 0-day contracts with the Bulls, and as I write this it looks like he's going to be signed for the rest of the season. But that doesn't necessarily mean he'll be back next year, and if he's not, I'm quite sure Chicago will forget him, at least until he walks baek into the United Center, at which time the crowd will be sure to boo. 
And I don't think anyone is immune from this. Have you heard the rumor that Michael Jordan is thinking of "examining possibilities" with other NBA teams? I, for one, eannot believe it for a minute, but what if it did happen? Michael would return to the United Center with his new team, and the fans would all but chase him out of the build­ing. All but me, that is. I sure wouldn't be happy about Michael leaving, espe­cially if, of all teams, he went to the New York Knicks. But the fact is I like Michael as a player and a person, and this isn't going to change based on what color shirt he wears to work. 
Now, I'm not denying that there are eases in whieh a change of opinion about a eertain player is logieal and even warranted. Horace Grant, for example not only left the Chicago Bull of his own volition, but after doing so, harshly criticized the establishment. Needless to say, he isn't too popular in Chicago anymore, and in this case, I can understand why. And recently I person­ally have changed my opinion about my former favorite NBA star, Hick Mahorn. For it appeared to many-myself includ­ed-that he played a key role in the call that ultimately got Dennis Rodman sus­pended for six games. And I thought that was low. Not only, of course, because Dennis is a Bull, or because I find him in particular to be so all­around attractive. I though it was a lousy thing to do beeause these tow guys share a bond. They were members of the same championship team at one point; they are both, deep down, Detroit Bad Boys. Call me overly sentimental, but I don't like the idea of purposely get­ting a former teammate and friend into trouble. You can play on opposite teams without playing dirty-which is just what Hick did. And as a result, my opin­ion of him is now drastically lowered. 
Perhaps you think all of this is quite stupid, and I will readily admit that it's probably not one of the most pressing concerns we as a society have today. But next time you're watching your favorite sport-be it basketball, football, hockey or whatever-watch for a player who has left your team and is now playing for the opposition, or one who, while on your team now, was once an arch-rival. And ask yourself whether your opinion of that player changed from love to hate, or vice versa, simply because he's changed jerseys. If so, further ask your­self: does that really make and sense? 
Kirsten Dunne. ND '92 (BA) and '95 (JD}, is working at Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo, Ltd. in Chicago. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
OH, YEAH?tfl&, 6U&SSWHOP CVi HeY, 
Y&AH, RI6HTl
PICI<. UP TH& I'M... I'M 
tJKEYOU
TAB! GU1393aJHO 50RRY. 
lJON'TG&T

NWHA? 70 PAY I HAlJN'T 7H/5 5TAT£ FOR. fiEAR/?... CABLe? 
\ 
\ 

• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"Moreover, the more pro­
found the love, the greater is the madness and the happiness." 
-Erasmus, The Praise of Folly 
ACCENT
page 10 
• AccENT AsKs••• 

Who's your favorite TV sitcom mom? 

"Maggie Seaver from Growing Pains. She's everything I want in a wife." 
Jason Malartsik Freshman, Alumni "Mrs. Ingalls from Little house on the prairie. 
She could bake a heck of a corn bread." 
Margaret Kensinger Freshman, Regina 
• 



"Mrs. Cosby, because she's a great dresser." 
Adam Singleton Junior, Turtle Creek 

"Ma'am from Webster because I'd love to have a mom who let me ride the dumb waiter!" 
Angie Kizer Freshman, Badin 



"Elise Keaton, because she handled Nick with her groovy, unearthly, insights." 
Courtney McEvors Junior, Holly Cross 

"Aif's mom because she seems to take liv­ing with an alien pretty normally." 
Pat Johnson Freshman, Dillon 


Wednesday, March 27, 1996 

ot 
ers I D 

MyMothe~ 
By ANGElA CATALDO situations and everyday life. Accent Writer always in control." 
M
other's Day is coming early this year for the Saint Mary's Junior class. Moms and daughters alike have been preparing for the weekend for months now. "I am very exc.ited about the weekend. I am looking for­ward to spending time with Jennifer and her friends," said junior Jennifer Nagy's mom, Doreen. For Corrie Hanrahan, preparation has meant not only making dinner reservations, but also a change in study habits. "My goal for this week is to get as much done as I can by Friday morning, and hopefully not have too much to do Sunday night," she said. Hanrahan plans to spend all the time she can with her mom. 
What is so special about Junior Moms Weekend? The most obvious is that for one weekend, juniors get their moms entirely to them­selves, without distractions from siblings, jobs and family. Also, though, it is a celebration of the relationship that each of student has with her mother. 
"I look at Junior Mom's as a time to have my friends meet my mom, and for me to meet my friend's moms, most importantly, in the social setting" observed Hanrahan. She believes that this interaction in the social scene will, for some, be a milestone in the relationship with their mothers. The relationship between mother and daughter has grown from a parent-child relationship to that of close friends. "That really is the biggest difference in our relationship. It has developed to a point where we can identify with each other more than we really could before," said Hanrahan. 
The relationships may have grown and changed, but when juniors reflect on their mothers. they all agree that their moms have not changed that much. "She prides herself in embarrassing me!" junior Taran Humbert laughs. "On my first date she spied on me from behind the plants in the Olive Garden!" A good sense of humor seems to be on the top of the list for most juniors. They not only admire their mother's ability to laugh, but appreciate it. "I know we will always have fun when we are together," says Brandee Carlson. But it isn't only wit and humor that the members of the junior class admire in their mothers. "She is always honest, and always there for me," adds Carlson. Kim Melvin admires her mother's strength. "I have always been impressed by my mom's strength and her independence in everyday situations and everyday life. No matter what happens ity, "She is so giving 
of herself. ent organizations, works, and is her family." With such a great group of role cate an entire weekend to these 
A great deal of planning has many are sticking to sche own activities. Brandee Carlson, and their mothers are all going to on Friday evening. They chose to h so all of the mothers would know o Saturday afternoon. 
While most juniors won't be part many express the desire to show a the Saint Mary's culture. Late nigh to the movie theater will not be le One junior even wants to have he Carlson said, "My mother is my bes made such a great life here that i mother to meet my friends and vice 
Although introducing her mothe group activities are on every junior' another event which could be call seems to be breaking away from th assure some quality time with mo shopping and lunches only with t night at her mother's hotel seems t juniors, too. . 
Distance has kept Kelly Zermen Mary's since Freshmen Orientation showing her mom around campus her roommates and friends. "Of co plan on taking my mom to the libra most of my time!" Other places of 1 taking her mom is Bruno's and M1 two. 
So, for the junior class this weeke laughter, the friendship and the lov£ It is only right that stuclies should b 
The awful truth abt 
By CAROLYN DEPPISCH Film Critic 

A
s Saint Mary's Junior Mom's Weekend is rapidly approaching, students are reflecting on their relationships with their mothers. Each daug~ter recalls childhood. memories of time~ spent with their moms and how important these memones are to them. Stones of adolescent b1rthday par­
ties and shopping trips remind them of the unique bond they share with the women who raised them.. But let's be honest. Are all memories dealing with mothers happy ones? Are they all filled w1th ...-------------------. laughter and bliss, or do your private reflections on 
111 


your family frighten you? Do you fear this woman? 
Do fears of wire hangers and Dutch Cleanser taint 
childhood memories of your mother? 
Hopefully not. For Christina Crawford, however, there would be no wine and cheese reception to honor her mother, Joan Crawford, as she portrays her relationship in the film, Mommie Dearest. 
Mommie Dearest is based on Christina Crawford's legendary film actress mother, Joan Crawford, played by Faye Dunaway. It revolves around the life of Crawford and her adopted children. 
In the opening scenes of the film, a fascinating first image of Joan Crawford is that of an obsessive and frighteningly compulsive woman. Crawford's morning routine consists of scrubbing her hands and face in steaming hot water, then pressing her face in a bowl of ice. 
This scrubbing method symbolizes Crawford's personality which seems to fluctuate from anger to sweetness in the space of one frame. 
Another example of Crawford's compulsive behav­ior is demonstrated by the manner in which she cleans her luxurious home. 
Dressed in street clothes with white high heels, she scrubs the foyer on her hands and knees while examining the living room that her maid cleaned. When she finds a speck of hidden dirt, she yells at the maid. Should this woman be allowed to have children? 
Crawford's strong maternal instincts gave her the 
-~----------~­
----~--------------------------------------­
ACCE-NT
Wednesday, March 27, 1996 page 11 
' 


IV\ 
arc My Friend 



111alter what happens she is mirns her mother's generos­voluntm~rs for snveral difTer­ays willing to do anything for 
1dels, why wouldn't we dedi­derful women? into the weekend. Although mts, most have added there wr mother, and her friends he Fondue Parlor for dinner Vfl dinner together on Friday e another at the luncheon on 
ing wildly with there moms, td intngrate their moms into t trips to l>mmy's and a visit 't ofT of the list of activities. mom ride the shuttle! As friend, and I fnelthat I have is only natural to want my 
·prsa." 
to her friends and a lot of · agt~nda. most an~ including Pd "Mom Time." Everyone ~ group aetivities in order to 
Many artl planning walks, tdr motlwrs. Spending the lw a wmrnon plan for many 
•'s nHHll from visiting Saint This wPnkmHI slw plans on 
·uul introducing lwr mom to 1l:=~===::==~~~~~~~~~========~~==~~=--J 
1rse" she said with a grin, "I 
y. lwcaus1~ that is wlwre I spend tltrartion that Zermeno plans on uTi's, and maybe even a bar or 
mi. it will lw a celnbration of the that Wtl sharn with our mothers. · postporwd. and the pace of col­
ut Mommy Dearest 
id1~a of adopting a child. After being rejected from an adoption agency, she finally received a baby from lwr lawym· and boyfriPJHI (;rng. 
Christina stHHmHI JWrfeet, as did her younger brother Christopher. Both children were angelic blonde-haired. blue-eyed kids. Tlwir looks were stereotypically ideal, re!lecting Crawford's relentless pursuit of perfet:tion. As years went by, the jealousy that Crawford felt towards her daughter began to d1w1dop as the public praised Christina. This jealousy is seen in one intense exchange of words between tlw motlwr and daughtnr. Christina was playing in her mother's room. Joan, sitting at her vanity, saw Christina's rP!leetion in the mirror as she talked to herself, pretending to accept an academy award. Through tlw mirror, Crawford's distorted image beeame enraged at what she saw. 
She ran over to lwr daughter's side and started to rip off the jewelry and clothing that Christina had put on. Without realizing what was happening, Christina sat in bewilderment as Crawford took scis­sors lllld lwgan to eut her daughter's blonde locks. As Crawford violently sliced her hair, she yelled, "I would ratlwr send my daughtnr to sehool bald than look like a tramp." This scene is the first of many encounters in whieh Crawford demeans and humiliates her daughter. 

As Crawford continues to face her own demons, she abuses alcohol and her daughter to fight them. Tlw prohl1~ms that arise in Crawford's life make it easier for the demons to take control of her. Her abuse and jealousy of her duughwr got worse. Shn begins a downward spiral and takes everyone on a family vat:ation to Crawford's own personal hell. 
After losing (;wg and her MGM contract, she destroys all the beautiful aspects of her life. This is SIHm wlwn Crawford tears her children out of bed so that they can help and watch her destroy a rose garden. 
llownvN the most horrific sc1me of the film deals with wire hangers. Camou!laged in a face mask, Crawford enters lwr sleeping daughter's room and begins to look through her closet. Compulsively, she arranges 1mch padded, pink hanger in line until her fiery eyes grow wide. With disgust, she pulls a dress off the rack which has been hung on a wiro hanger. She begins to scream ferociously and tear all of Christina's drt~sses ofT thn rack. In fear, Christina tries to hide behind her pillow. Seeing this, Crawford rushes ovnr to lwr and begins to beat her daughter with the hanger. Christina tries to escape from lwr. hut Crawford was not finished. She then forces her daughter to serub the bathroom while heating lwr with tho Dutch Clmtnser. 
The dynamics of this scene mirror the theme of terrifying obsession present throughout the film. Throughout lwr life, Crawford wore a publicity mask thick enough to cover up her alcoholism, abuse and obsessive lwhavior. It f'oolml many pnople into bnlieving her to be a beautiful woman, capturing tlw !warts of /\mnriea through charm and charity. Unfortunately, this mask was not used on her chil­drnn. l1mving behind only painful memories. 
As Saint Mary's .Juniors propare for tho arrival of their mothers, they are thankful for each mother; for lwr understanding and forgiveness, her unique styles, her discipline and most of all, her love. Whetlwr or not children always listen to their parents, it is important for them to appreciate and 1L1:c1~pt 1wnn non-judgmental opinions on wire hangers. 
• ACCENT SPEAKS••• 
Once upon a lemonade stand ••. 
By LESLIE FIELD Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Once upon a hasinette there were babies looking up at their mothers, smiling, wondering what Gerber meal would be waiting for them when they woke from their slumber. Hoping for a healthy jar of carrots before going for a bounce in !he jolly jumper, these babies never dreamed that one day they would he looking to their mothers for a variety of other needs. Less than a year after those lazy afternoons spent under the comfort of a dotted swiss canape, came the Snoopy Snow Cone Machine. 
Complete with red and blue syrup to squeeze on the crushed ice, this provided the ultimate summer-time treat for all the three and four year old boys and girls in the neighbor­hood. Most of the sticky ice ended up on the children's hands, but mothers never seemed to mind. 
They just turned on the Fun Fountain and let the children play under the clown's spouting hat as they spun and laughed and fell until they were suddenly seven. Then mothers watched as their children rearranged furniture in Barbie's Dream House, attempted to pogo stiek and Chinese jump rope while saving up their allowance money for a brand new Snoopy back pack. 
In the meantime, children watched quality shows like The Electric Company, The Great Space Coaster and Mr. Hoger's Neighborhood. They listened to mini-records on their Donald Duck record players, trying with all their might to imitate the voices of Donald himself, along with the likes of Bert and Earnie. And who can forget the breathtaking (literally) sounds of the Chipmunks; Alvin, Simon and their brainy brother, Theodore. 
At a few sticker trading meetings later there were the Zips sneakers that looked ever so stylish with the Super Man and Wonder Wo~an Underoos. (If the girls were lucky they got to wear the two piece!) Mothers snapped pictures of their little super heroes flexing and !lying through the living room, hover crafts and silly putty in hand. 
These photos were proudly displayed on the refrigerator door, just above the signed, inspired chalk drawing of a blue jay withan unusually large wing span. It looked just like the one your mother pointed out on the way to Baskin Robbins. She would always have a scoop or two of mint chocolate chip with you because she was your pal. And if you were Star of the Week in school, she might even take you to the "special store" for glow in the dark stickers, a He Man castle gray skull or a Pound Puppie. 
But the Tonka days faded as Madonna tapes (not CO's) and jelly bracelets invaded play spaces. Mothers spent hours at little league games and carpooled ... and carpooled some more. They never complained. They were your biggest fan, your coach ... and always your friend. They had rehearsed pep talks on attitude and sportsmanship. Mothers eventually consented to pierced ears, New Kids on the Block posters, watching Dirty Dancing and staying up late. Sometimes they even stayed up with you and your friends. 
Your room got a little messier and you discussed purchasing the ever important locker answering machine. Your mother listened to the reasoning behind the need and probably said no. But looking back on it, aren't you glad she did? 
She always had the answers. even if you didn't know it at the time. She cringed the first time she drove with you, wish­ing she had the Driver's Ed brake on the right. She taught you how to pin a corsage and, for some, helped with the aetu­al pinning. She gave you new pep talks with hints of the old "little league" ones. After all, the same rules applied. She watched you go from a freshman to a senior in high school. guiding you and rolling her eyes at times. "Too much bass on the stereo." "Don't you think the skirt 's a little bit too short, honey?" "Where are my car keys?" 
But through it all, she remained your one and only mother 
and you were still her pride and joy. It was still mom who 
took you to Baskin Robbins for an ice cream cone and, though 
the surprise store may have turned into the Gap. it was she 
who selflessly went with you to find that great new pair of 
khakis. They're the ones you are still wearing in college ... 
the faded ones with the hole in the knee. 
Now she speaks highly of you to her friends at work and 
home. She calls you and is happy when you are happy and is 
always around to cheer you up and remind you of the day 
something similar happened to you in grade school. 
Your mother is the friend of a lifetime. So be sure to keep 
her in mind the next time you are running short on cash and 
decide to open up a lemonade stand with some of your friends 
in the neighborhood. Not only will she help you with the mea­
surements for the lemonade mixture, finding a eash box and 
providing you with her best markers for the sign, but she'll 
make the best business partner you ever had. 
---------------~-------~ ----~ ~--~~~-....., 
·1 
Wednesday, March 27, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 12 
• NIT •NBA 
St. Joseph's 01oves Lakers end Magic home streak 
Associated Press season and were trying to keep more starters, leaving them pace with the Bulls, who have without a single member of
into NIT final round 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Will Johnson's three-point play 38 seconds into overtime gave St. Joseph's the lead for the good and the Hawks ad­vanced to the championship game of the NIT with a 7 4-69 victory over Alabama on Tuesday night. 
The Hawks (19-12), who led by 17 points at halftime, will play Nebraska for the title on Thursday night at Madison Square Garden. The Cornhuskers beat Tulane 90­78 in the opener. 
Alabama (19-12) forced the overtime when Eric Washington's 3-pointer with seven seconds left in regula­tion made it 65-65. 
The Crimson Tide had a chance to tie the game again in overtime, but freshman 
Brian Williams missed a 3­pointer with 13 seconds left. Three seconds later, Reggie 
Townsend  made  two  free  
throws for St. Joe's.  
Terrell  Myers  led  St.  

Joseph's with 20 points, although he did not score over the final 13 minutes of regula­tion and the overtime. Mark Bass added 18 poirits for the Hawks, while Townsend had 14 and Johnson eight. 
Washington led the Crimson Tide with 26 points and Roy Rogers added 17, 12 after halftime. 
Alabama trailed 39-22 at halftime after shooting 26 per­cent, but the Crimson Tide bit off most of the lead with a 13­2 run that pulled them to 46­41 with 9:47 left. Rogers final­ly started to score inside for the Crimson Tide, hitting two hooks and a short turnaround in the run. 
ORLANDO, Fla. 
The Los Angeles Lakers not only shattered Orlando's 40­game home winning streak, they buried it. 
Nick Van Exel scored 22 points and the Lakers went 11­of-18 on 3-point shots to beat the Magic 113-91 Tuesday night and end the second­longest home regular-season winning streak in NBA history. 
Eddie Jones was 3-for-3 from beyond the arc and had 18 points, while Magic Johnson and Elden Campbell each scored 14 for the Lakers. Los Angeles also got a boost from Cedric Ceballos' 15 points in his first game since returning from a four-day unexcused absence. 
Orlando lost a regular season game at home for the first time since March 14, 1995, leaving Chicago {34-0) as the only team with an unblemished record on its home court. 
'The Magic had won 33 straight at Orlando Arena this won a league-record 41 con­secutive regular-season home games dating back to last spring. 

Shaquille O'Neal led Orlando with 23 points and 10 re­bounds. Anfernee Hardaway finished with 21 points and Nick Anderson added 16 for Orlando, which made only 7 of 23 shots from 3-point range. 
Ceballos, criticized by the Lakers for abandoning the team last week, scored eight of his points in a third-quarter spurt that enabled Los Angeles to break open a close game. 
The Lakers led 54-49 at the half, getting 12 points from Van Exeland 10 from Johnson. 
Ceballos keyed a 10-2 spurt in the last three minutes of the third quarter to put the Lakers up 84-70. 
Knicks 83, Rockets 74 
HOUSTON The Houston Rockets lost two their "usual" starting five. 
A blowout loss wouldn't have been a surprise, but the Rockets' backups made a game of it before succumbing 83-7 4 to the New York Knicks on Tuesday night. 
John Starks scored 21 points and the Knicks withstood a startling third-quarter come­back. The Knicks led by 22 at halftime but the makeshift Rockets pulled within three points with 8:25 left before fal­tering. 
Houston starters Hakeem Olajuwon and Robert Horry missed the game with knee ten­dinitis. Mario Elie, Sam Cassell and Clyde Drexler already were out because of injuries. 
"I keep saying how much heart this team has," Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich said. "They just kept coming back, hustling. We just didn't have enough gas to finish it off." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES 
Hey all you sophs with sibs! Want to show the kids what life at ND is really like? Go to a movie this weekend, and then go to bed early. 
TOY STORY 
Showing @ Cushing 
Fri & Sat @ 8 & 10:30 
Sun@ 2 
It's coming .... the first Four Food Groups of the Apocalypse Anthology: "A WELL BALANCED MEAL." Shazam! 
Take A WALK IN THE CLOUDS 
Friday 7 & 9:30 Saturday 9 Carroll Aud. Free Admission 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­
Positions are now available at 
National Parks. Forests & Wildlife 
Preserves. Excellent benefits + 
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971·3620 
ext.N55846 
The Michiana Paintball Club now 
has an Indoor Paintball field in 
South Bend -Free membership. 
291-9462 
KV-"1 need the equipment!" 
Attention students! The Morrissey Filmiest is this Thursday, March 28, at 7:30 P.M.in the Stepan Center. Cost of a ticket is $2, with proceeds benefitting the St. Hedwig's Outreach Center. See you there. 
Sexual Assault Awareness Week is coming! April14-18 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST LOST LOST LOST Green wool coat and wallet Sat, March 2 at Sarin. Would like to eat in the near future. Please calf Kristin at X3803. 
LOST: Woman's gold sapphire ring with two small diamonds last semester. If found, please calf X2446. Reward. 
Did you take the wrong red plaid 
jacket from Senior Bar Thursday 
night? I miss my red Aeropstale 
jacket and I have your verysimilar 
coat. Please call Caroline x-4852 
so we can swap coats 
lost: 
Notre Dame Student ID. 
Last seen exiting Regina on 
Thursday before break. If found 
call Mike O'Hara @273-6183. 
WANTED 
WANTED: Good people to earn 
money by becoming reps for 
EXCEL Telecommunications. Call 
299-1999 evenings. 

MOM'S HELPER Love Babies? Assistance needed for 2 infants: newborn and 8 months. Late April thru Fall 50-20 hours 6.50/hr-10 a.m.-1 p.m. prefered References required Tel. 272 3237 Leave message please, if machine answers. 
Need graduation tix. Will take any amount. Calf Alfyson at X4309. 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS ­Teach basic English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive Room & Board + other benefits. For info. calf: (206)971-3680 ext.K55841 
CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING­Earn up to $2,000+/month working on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­panies. World travel. Seasonal & full-time employment available. No experience necessary. For more information call 1-206-971-3550 ext. C55844 
$ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students 
Needed! $$$+Free Travel 
(Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!) 
Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper. 
Necessary. Gde. 919-929-4398 
extC1114 
DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU ARE DOING NEXT YEAR? TEACH FOR AMERICA IS LOOKING FOR OUTSTANDING INDIVIDUALS TO TEACH UNDER-SERVED STU­DENTS IN URBAN AND RURAL AREAS. CALL 1-800-823-1230 DEADLINE APRIL 3RD. 
Starting at $12/hr! The Princeton Review is looking for qualified peo­ple to teach our test preparation programs. If you've earned high scores on the LSAT, GRE or SAT and would like to work 6-10hrs in the evenings and on weekends, contact Michelle at ( (800)865-7737. 
FOR RENT 

Studio apartment in private home, available June 1. Quiet neighbor­hood near Notre Dame. $375/mo. incl. utilities. Phone 631-6072 days, 273-1751 evenings. 
MISHAWAKA (West End). 602 W. 6th. X-NICE large 2 bdrms, $425 mos. + dep. + gas. References. No pets. Available 4/1. Can show start­ing 3/29. 256-7152 for appt. 
• •' ROOMATE WANTED'' • Prefer Female nonsmk grad std. Beautiful, safe downtown apt $200 heat incl. Priv. 1/2 bath w/ room. hardwd firs, firepl., dine rm, sun rm, garage, WD. On bus rt. Alisa @ 237-1840 
5 BR; 605 St Peter 
$925/mo 232-2595 
Faculty or Student Available in Aug.-For lease 4 bedroom, 2 full baths, furnished appliances-wash­er-dryer, attached 2 car garage, off street parking, deposit + utilities. 234-1336 
CLAY TWNSHP 1&2 BDROOM UNITS ($350 & $450); STOVE, FRIG,UTILITIES INCLUDED; SEC.DEP&LASTMONTH;NEAR NOTRE DAME. 272-1968. ALSO GRAD OR FACULTY UNIT: $375.00 PLUS UTILITIES; FURNISHED; SEC DEP&LAST MONTH; NEAR N.D. 272-1968. 
Need Summer Housing? 
Fully furnished 2 bedroom apt at College Park for rent. 
Call X2915 for details. 
Room for Fall '96 5-min drive! $250 inc/ 
utilities & extras! 
1-4809/232-7175 
Furnished Student Apts Heat included -lg 1 bdrm, $330 -sm 1 bdrm, $260 755 South Bend Ave -1 block west of ND Ave deposit, references 1­800-582-9320 
FOR SALE 
1990 two-door red Chevy Cavalier. Good condition. Call Wendy at 273-5818. $4000 or best offer. 
SONY CAR STEREO/CD PLAYER COX 5070, DETACHABLE FACE $200 call Steph 277-1440 
SHARP PORTABLE STERE0,6­
DISC $100 STEPH 277-1440 
JUDAY CREEK gem. 
Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch 
with a 17 x 25 home office 
& 3-car garage. 
5 minutes to ND. 
REDUCED TO $149,500 
Call Karen 272-3653. 
SOFA-PRETTY SCOTCHGUARD 
FABRIC-EXCELLENT CONDI­
TION. KODAK-600 CAMERA 
LIKE NEW-CALL 683-9451 
Waterfront Condos 
1 Bedrooms from $52,000 
2 Bedrooms from $80,000 
New Decor 
EVERYTHING included 
Close to Notre Dame 
BEAUTIFUL! 
NORTH SHORE CLUB 
232-2002 
Nissan Sentra, 1983, 90000 miles, 5 Speed, in excellent running condi­tion for $ 1400/obo. Call 277-51 06 or 1-5606. 
86 Honda Civic 4Dr., new brakes, 
clutch, battery. Very dependable. 
$800 271-1289 1421 N. Oak Dr.; condo, by owner, immaculate, 2 full baths, garage, finished lower level. walk to ND, range, dishwasher, microwave, refrigerator. wid, $77,900, 277-8898 
Guitar for sale: 1993 Fender Strat Delux, great condition, will negotiate. Call Max 234-5771. 
1993 NISSAN PATHFINDER XE, lots of options, prof. main!, 28000 miles...$21 ,500. 273-8673 
TICKETS 
(4) GARTH BROOKS INDY 3/29 BOB SEGER CHICAGO 5/9 272-7233 
PERSONAL 
0D000D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!! THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0D0 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 

THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
It's coming .... the first Four Food 
Groups of the Apocalypse 
Anthology: "A WELL BALANCED 
MEAL." Hot diggedy damn! 
"""RESERVOIR CLOWNS""" 
SEE RESERVOIR CLOWNS AT THE MORRISSEY FILM FEST 
Wishing life were more like a t.v. show? If so, come join us for Notre Dame's version of MTV's Singled Out. We'll see you at LaFortune's ballroom on Wednesday, March 27 at 7:30p.m. Brought to you by your friends at Student Union Board! 
Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­rapher husband wish to adopt new­born. Will provide love, nurturing environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call 818/241-5535 collect. Legal & Confidential. 
I NEED A RIDE TO ST. LOUIS 
FOR EASTER! WILL HELP WITH 
$. CALL JEN @ 4-2903 
the only boy who could ever reach 
me was the son of a preacher man 
REVEREND FUNK 
winners of the NAZZ, · funk freak show JAZZMAN'S FRIDAY NIGHT come & get a free funk injection 
look out europe, the dog is com­
ing,,and she loves 

that La Pula Phantom song. 
PC: Why don't we start making a few bets about you ...... ??? I bet we could come up with some good ones ...... 
calm down. no need to pull the bus over to the side of the road. You don't even know the context in which godmother was used. 
I would make more bets, I just don't want to keep taking your hard earned money. 
less than a week 
Hey Dragon Lady's New Hiree: I miss our breaks together. Have you given yourself the three week rule yet? I swear by it. What a cute little Irish family you could construct. 
Woulld somebody please explain to me how the Academy overlooked Jimmy Stewart in the Best Actor category? His performance in "Vertigo" was mes­merizing. Wait a minute-that was over twenty years ago. Well what about a "lifetime Achievement" Award? 
Attn. Jimmy Stewart fans: Interested in joining NO's own Jimmy Stewart Fan Club? Call Damian at 288-6638 for more info. Goodbyyyyyye. 
Isn't it great to know that a Disney movie song won? 
So you're saying that you'd win all the bets about your life, huh? I don't know about that.. .. Sometimes I can make predictions, too. Such as who the godFATHER might be???? 
five weeks till vegas 
Accoustic Conde is coming .... 
Personal shout outs from Tuss to his loved ones 
Love those cross eyed girls!!! 
So ... yoiu came to Panama City for spring break 
ARF! ARF! 
We got screwed in Bookstore. 5'2 and LES will appeal the non-seeding decision and WE SHALL OVERCOME. 
FIGHT THE POWER! -PLC/BLUMDOGGIE/LES 
JOEY! JOEY! JOEY! 
Look, Billy peed his pants. Everyone in grown-up world pees their pants. It's the coolest. Look, Ernie peed his pants too. If peeing your pants is cool, consid­er me Miles Davis. 
Or Dante Calabria for that matter. 
They will never cease. Never. 
Gibberish. 

Jose "Can you say 60-60" Canseco if healthy, may challenge Maris this year. Even if not, 40-40 sounds realistic to me. 
Crank it, Bookstore. 
Some say the yaks got the shaft. 

God, those new Bookstore lids are phat. Where do you get them? 
I see Big 0 sponsored shirts in our future. I'm thinking maybe an argyle motif. Plaid would work but matching cool belts would be a necesity. I think we're OK as long as it's under $900. 
It would be so nice to be rid of 
twigs. 

When is the world going to let Billy Buckner rest in peace. He really is sorry for his transgression. And in the grand scheme of things, it really didn't matter. 
Yeah whatevah. 
Wow shirt. 

Hey, next Tuesday we're going to 
smoke some Black Russians. 

Observer people are not supposed 
to spy on me at my dance. 
No one is supposed to know that 
side of me. 

In less than a week, we won't have to hide in the corner with a Diet Coke when cops come into bars. And we won't make scenes at BW3's either. And we won't have to peek into bars, or check around­corners. Or evalute IDs. Or sneak into Bridget's. Or take off in the middle of dart games. Or get to a bar early and see if we know the bouncer. In less than a week.. we are free. And so is the belt man. HOLY MOLY! He's really, truly,it­aint-no-lie, HE'S GOING TO BE 21!!!!!!!!1!1 . 
IT'S ALL A CONSPIRACY!!! FOR­GETTING 5'2" AND LES IN THE SEATING! YOU MAY NOT REAL­IZE IT, BUT THE WORLD NEEDS SHORT PEOPLE. WHERE WOULD YOU BE WITHOUT MARY LOU RETTON? WE WILL SHOW YOU. 5'2" AND LES ARE GOING ALL THE WAY TO BOOKSTORE. AND BOY ARE YOU GOING TO FEEL STUPID. 
PC, Stop all that talk about smoking being beneficial. Smoking kills. -the dog 
Boggs and the sisters got ripped!!! 
WE should have been seeded in 
spite of the Brazillian 

Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• ~INAL FOUR 
Final Four draws comparisons 
Hy JIM O'CONNELL 
A,;ociatcd Press 
Not orw of the teams in this weekend's Final Four has rtmdwd the New York metro­politan armt yet and the dever lines and eomparisons are alrnady about played out. 
"What lime is the junior var­sity game?" more than one quipster has asked of Saturday's opening national s«~mil'inal bntween Syracuse and Mississippi State. the ugly stepsisters of the weekend. 
"Wiwn's the last time the title gamn was played on Saturday?" has become one of the cute comments about the nightcap between Massachusetts and Kentucky, who just happened to be ranked Nos. 1 and 2, respec­tively. 
Then there are the compar­isons to Final Fours past, such as 1983, when No. 1 met No. 2 in the NCAA tournament, or any recent NFL season when the NFC title game has decided the team that will win the Super Bowl to come. 
For those who believe we learn from history, a look back at 1983 is in ord~r. Top-ranked Houston put on a dunking spec­tacle in beating No. 2 Louisville 94-81 in the semifinals. 
Two nights later, North Carolina State, coached by the late Jim Valvano, pulled off one of college basketball's greatest upsets, a point Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim and Mississippi State coach Richard Williams will surely find some comfort in. 
What makes the Kentucky­UMass matchup even more de­licious is that it's a rematch of the November game that saw Massachusetts handle the Wildcats. 
Minutemen win with defense 
By HOWARD ULMAN As">ciatcd Press 
BOSTON 

Massaehuselts is usnd to sr,n­ing 1~xenllent defense -usually its own. Edgar Padilla's quick hands produen steals, Marcus Camby's long reach bloeks shots and tnarnmates constantly eovt~r for naeh other. 
Now it must face perhaps the toughest defense it's seen all ynar against Kentucky in the Final Four. 
The Wildcats use a suiTocat­ing pr«~ss, made more niTectivB lwcausn thnir nxeeptional depth gives them fresh legs. And they have thn quickness to double l«Htm big men like Camby and still rneovnr to guard thnir own 
llWil. 
"Tiwy do a fabulous job of pirking up quickly to make it hard on you to catch" the ball, lJMass coarh .John Calipari said. "Tiwy·n~ ~real anticipa­tors. 
"Tiwy mally do a gr«~at job of rlu~ating up thn floor and trying to steal halls. Thny take a lot of rhanet~s." lw addt~d. "You have to makn them pay for taking chances." 
Top-ranked UMass (35-1) spaees the lloor well on oll'ense and eomns toward passes, two tacties that can help overcome a trapping defense. But that dnfcnse is a major reason sec­ond-ranked Kentucky (32-2) has won its four NCAA tourna­ment games by an average of 28 points. 
If the Wildcats win their fifth Saturday night against UMass, thny can claim their sixth championship Monday night against the winner of the Syracuse-Mississippi State semifinal. 
"We're going to play a team that has fire in their eyes," Calipari said, "that's going to come out after the jugular and a team that's going to he play­ing bntter than they have all year." 
UMass won its season opener 92-82 against Kentucky. That knorknd the Wildcats from the No. I ranking. a perch the Minutemen held for 10 of the 17 mgular-season polls. 
But the Wildcats didn't lose again until Mississippi State surprisnd them in the Southeastern Conference tour­nament final. 
Trying to beat a relentless del'ense can be draining, and UMass' backcourt doesn't get much of a breather. Padilla is averaging 36.4 minutes per game and Carmelo Travieso 
36.1. So far, though, they've shown few signs of fatigue as Calipari has managed their rest periods well. 
"Hight now, we've settled in on seven or eight guys," Culipari said. "In the NCAA tournament, you can do that because the TV timeouts are 18 minutes long. I'm at a loss for words in the TV timeouts." · Padilla and Travieso will get help from Camby, and forwards Donta Bright and Dana Dingle in trying to overcome Kentucky's press. The group of two seniors and three juniors has been cool under pressure all season. 
The Wildcats "might come at you a little bit quicker" on de­fense than other teams, Travieso said, but "it's not just going to be us (he and Padilla) breaking the pressWe're going to have Dana and Donta to help and Marcus coming in every once in a while to get the ball." 
CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS 
We are currently accepting applications for next year. 
FuRNISHED APARTMENTS SWIMMING POOL & JACUZZI TENNIS, VOLLEYBALL, & BASKETBALL COURTS 24 HOUR LAUNDRY & SHUTTLE BUS PROFESSIONAL MANAGEMENT 
*Limited Apartments available for your selection* For more information call272--1441 
Wildcats hope to avenge UMass loss 
By MIKE EMBRY Walter McCarty needs a Associated Press break, Mark Pope. Hon Mercer 
and Allen Edwards are there 
LEXINGTON, Ky. to step in. 
While his team has the num­The competition for minutes bers, Kentucky coach 
has brought out the Rick Pitino doesn't best in the Wildcats believe that nec­while creating mini­essarily will add up to mal dissension an advantage over through the course of Massachusetts the season. Saturday night in the "Everybody has had Final Four. their opportunity," 
It certainly wasn't Anderson said of play­that much of a factor Pitino ing time. 
when Massachusetts prevailed 92-82 over the Wildcats in the Great Eight on Nov. 28. 
Kentucky got much more production off its bench than did UMass -32·0 in scoring, 10·5 in rebounds and 12-0 in assists. 
While. a deep bench has been one of Kentucky's strengths this season, Pitino believes a thin bench has actually benefited Massachusetts. 
"Their lack of depth makes them a great basketball team," he said. 
"If they had to substitute and take (Edgar) Padilla, (Carmelo) Travieso or {Donta) Bright or those guys out of the game, they wouldn't be as good. 
"Our depth makes us a great basketball team because there is very little difference between certain positions, where for them there is." 
And Kentucky is deep and it seldom misses a beat when Pitino goes to his bench. 
Kentucky uses 10 players, ranging from Antoine Walker's 26.7 minutes a game to Allen Edwards' 9.6, and they have all started at least one game 
When guards Tony Delk and Anthony Epps need a rest, Pitino can call on Jeff Sheppard or Wayne Turner to fill in. When the frontline of' Walker, Derek Anderson and 
"Everybody has started a game, from the freshmen on up. They had their chance. Everybody knows how the coach gives you that chance and how you should take advantage of it." 
Kentucky believes it learMd from the loss to Massachusetts. 
"We don't take anything away from them," said Walker. 
"They beat us and they beat us well. Marcus Camby had a great game and played like the superstar that he is. At that time they were a much better team than we were. 
At that time we were trying to find ourselves and trying to find our rotation and get our chemistry down." 
Besides Camby scoring 32 points, grabbing nine rebounds and blocking five shots, Kentucky also turned the ball over 23 times and was outrebounded 36-33. 
Since that game, Epps has taken over at point guard and Delk moved to off guard, mak­ing for a more efficient offense that averages 92.2 points. 
"It taught me where changes had to be made and taught us where improve­ments lie," said Pitino, who's team won a school-record 27 straight after the loss. 
"Now I think we're a 100 percent better team than be­fore," Walker said. 

• 
Offers flexible hours and great experience 

• 
Macintosh computer knowledge necessary 


•Willingness to learn, and enthusiasm extremely important 
. Freshmen are encouraged to apply If mterested, contact Jed @ 4-1177 for more information 
.._ 
pagel4

•
Orangemen find luck on their side 
Associated Press pack among the 64 teams"''in the NCAA Tournament. It SYRACUSE, N.Y. began the season unranked 
Syracuse's unexpected sur-and, true to prediction, fin­viva! in the NCAA Tournament · ished the regular season involves unselfishness, big behind the Big East's trio of plays in key situations, strong powerhouses: Connecticut, leadership. Georgetown and Villanova. 
..And pure luck. Syracuse has played well 
"Any time you reach this far, during the NCAAs, but noq~t~:t luck has something to do with superior level, Boeheirn said. it," coach Jim Boeheim said The Orangemen shot less than Tuesday. average, rebounded only ade­
"But I'd also like to think quately and handled the ball that matchups are crucial. If just well enough. we don't match up well with a The Orangemen's 2-3 zone team. it's much harder to exe-defense has confounded its cute our offense and defense." first four tournament oppo· 
The Orangemen {28·8) cer-nents, but it cannot cmnnare tainly took a difficult route to with the defenses played the Meadowlands Saturday; Kentucky and Massachus~t~~ where they meet Mississippi the nation's top two teams. State (26· 7). They meet in the other semi· 
There was John Wallace's rmal. halfcourt-length baseball pass Boeheim said the key has to set up Jason Cipolla's game-been the senior leadership of tying shot in the final seconds Wallace and point guard against Georgia on Friday and Lazarus Sims has been the real Wallace's game-winning 3· key to Syracuse's run in the pointer in the final seconds of NCAAs. overtime. "The other guys have given 
Then there was Kansas' Billy in and understand and accept Thomas bumbling a bouncing their roles," Boeheim said. ball out of bounds as he was "They know we want to get the preparing to take a wide open ball to John whenever we can. layup that would have tied the And they listen to what Z says game in the waning moments because he's the guy that con-ofSunday's game. trois everything we do." 
"When you're playing well, Boeheim denied his coaching those things seem to happen. has been a factor, even though When you're struggling, all of it sure appears he pulled all the loose balls seem to go to the right strings. "Coaches are your opponent," Boeheim said. given too much credit when 
Based on pure talent,. their team wins, and too much Syracuse was probably some-credit when their team loses,'' where in the middle of the he said. 
The Observer· SPORTS 
..,:.;;.~···"" 
·~ / 

Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
Fen~ing 
continued from page 20 

coaches make the choices. think Stephane had a good sea­son for a freshman, and hope­fully he can contribute more next season. I could see that it was a little hard on him with me being the coach." 
Starting Friday and ending Monday, Auriol takes the Irish fencers to Yale University for the NCAA championships. Last year, Notre Dame finished in third place. Expectations are high for Walsh, de Bruin and Lester. Walsh finished with one of the best seasons for a Notre Dame fencer while de Bruin and Lester will try to top last year's second place fin­ishes. Siek will try to better his second place finish in the 1994 NCAAs. 
"The people going to the championships are strong," observed Auriol. "We are only sending eight. Individually we should place nicely. Since indi­viudal results dictate the team championship, we should do well. We should do well in sabre and women's foil. Same with the epee. We are weaker at men's epee and foil than the past. It's hard to say if we can finish as high as last year's third place. We could." 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join the Observer staff. 

The Blacl~ Law Students Association of Notre Dame 
Law School 
presents 

"Bridging the Racial Divide in America" 
featuring 

Derricl~ Bell 
Professor of Law, New Yorl~ University Law School 
The Black Law Students Association is pleased to invite you to hear Professor Bell, a well-known and highly respected legal scholar and former Professor of Law at Harvard Law School and Dean of the University of Oregon Law School. Professor Bell left Harvard after serving on the faculty for eighteen years and the University of Oregon for the schools' refusals to hire and tenure women of color and other minority applicants to faculty positions. Professor Bell is the author of four books on the law, his most recent being, Confronting Authority: Reflections of an Ardent Protester. 
All are welcome to attend and are encouraged to join us on: 
Date: Saturday, March 30, 1996 
Time:4:00, PM 
Place:Hesburgh Auditorium, 
University of Notre Dame 
------·-----~--------------­
Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• NIT 
Cornhuskers advance to finals 
By JIM O'CONNELL 
Asso~iatcd Press 
NEW YOHK 

A Nebraska season that was coming to a very ugly close sud­dnnly has a chance for a special emling. 
The Cornhuskers continued thc~ir hot postseason shooting in a 1)0-7H victory over Tulane on Tuesday night and will play for thn NIT ehampionship. 
Eric:k Strickland and Bernard Garner each had 20 points for thn Cornhuskers (20-14), who will mnet the winner of the Alabama-St. Josnph 's semifinal for the titln on Thursday night at Madison Square Garden. 
The Cornhuskers shot 57 pnr­emlt Tuesday night after having shot 54 percent during the first thrne games of the tournament. 
"Six weeks ago we never thought we'd be in a tourna­nwnt; now it's a silver lining," said Nebraska coach Danny NcH~. whosn team lost 10 of 11 gamns to dose the regular sea­son and finished sevnnth in the Big Eight. 
"ll's important for us to win. We've never won a national ti­tle in the history of this pro­gram. It's important for this team, but more important for the program." 
The Cornhuskers took control for a while in both halves, but Tulane (21-10) was able to make a run each time. There was no third run for the Green Wave, who drew to 71-68 with 
5:41 left by scoring nine straight points. 
"We handled Tulane's runs. We knew they would come and we handled each one," Nee said. 
Nebraska, which never trailed, took a 17-6 lead and led 39-26 with 4:16 left in the first half. Tulane closed the half with a 15-3 run, making all five shots over the final 3 1/2 min­utes. 
The Huskers kept making their shots and seemed to have the game under control again, taking a 66-54 lead with 12:06 left by making six straight shots. 
"I was very surprised by their shooting," Tulane coach Perry Clark said. 
"They handled our pressure very well and I don't think any­one has shot that well against us." 
Memphis shot the same per­centage in the final game of the regular season and only North Carolina, in the third game of the year, shot over 50 percent against the Green Wave this season. The best anyone had shot in the three NIT games was 38 percent. · 
"We given up taking those 3s and have started going inside for dunks and layups," Nee said. "You can see the differ­ence in the clusters on the shot chart." 
The Green Wave, led by Jerald Honeycutt's 16 points, made one final run to get with­in three, but then seemed to tire down the stretch. The Huskers, meanwhile, got hot at the line, making 11 of 14 over the final 3:35 to seal the win. 
"We were very confident ev­ery time they made a run," said Strickland, a senior. 
Sutntner Help Needed in Latin America 
Have a summer full of adventure and invest in your future career while working as a community health volunteer! 

Skills Developed Communication Leadership Interpersonal Foreign Language Cross-Cultural Sensitivity Management Organizational 
APPUCATION SPACB STIU. AVAIIABLU FOR TDIS SUlUIBR. APPLY TODAY! 
Projects Administered Community Sanitation Human Immunizations Rabies Vaccinations Environmental Education Dental Hygiene HN Prevention Education 

5618 Star Lane Houston, TX 77057 800-231-7796 

Countries Served Mexico Honduras Costa Rica Dominican Republic Ecuador Paraguay Brazil 
Scholarships available. 
•NFL 
Authorities find cocaine on Morris 
Associated Press 
ROCKWALL, Texas 
Authorities searching the impounded car of Pittsburgh Steelers running back Byron "Bam" Morris found a small amount of what is believed to be cocaine. 
John Davila, assistant com· mander of the Northeast Area Drug Interdiction Task Force, said today that officers found 1 1/2 grams of suspected cocaine Monday while search· ing the black leased Mereedes. 
The luxury car was impounded last week after officers found more than six pounds of marijuana in the trunk during a traffic stop. 
Davila said the contraband was found in a small hollow area underneath the ashtray. 
Rockwall County District Attorney Galen Sumrow was not immediately available for comment on whether addi­tional charges would be filed against Morris, although evi­dence in the case was report· edly being presented to a grand jury today. 
Morris, 24. the leading rush­er in this year's Super Bowl, and Rodney Dwayne Reynolds, 26, a passenger in the car, were arraigned Friday on charges of possession of between 5 and 50 pounds of marijuana. 
The men, both from Cooper. each posted $25,000 bond within an hour of their court appearance. 
If convicted of the marijuana charge. a third-degree felony, the men could receive 2 to 10 years in prison and a maxi­mum fine of $10,000, prosecu­tors said. 
Morris was stopped in his car Friday morning for cross­ing the outside line and for not wearing a seat belt, officials said. 
An officer from the drug task force followed Morris about three miles before pulling him over outside the Rockwall city limits. 
The arresting officer beeame suspicious after Morris and Heynolds gave conflicting statements of where they'd been and what they'd been do­ing, authorities said. 
Aftt~r obtaining Morris' per­mission to search the car, the officer found the drugs in the trunk in a sports bag, authori­ties said. 
Morris won the Doak Walker Award in 1993 as the nation's top running back while a junior at Texas Tech. 
•NFL 
Irvin attends court hearing in Dallas 
By JANINE ZUNIGA 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
Michael Irvin of the Dallas Cowboys entered a grand jury room this morning under sub­poena to testify about mari­juana, cocaine and drug para­phernalia found in a motel room. 
Irvin, former Cowboys tight end Alfredo Roberts, Angela Beck and Jasmine Nabwangu 
Power Fourth Day 
on 

The Images of God 
featuring: 

0MPUS
Kate Barrett 
MINISTRY 
Tonight in the Keenan-Stanford Chapel at 7:30PM Bring a friend • Bring a date • Bring your whole section 
were subpoenaed to appear before the panel last Thursday, but only Hoberts and Nabwangu responded. All four showed up at the courthouse today. 
Nabwangu, who again ap­peared before the grand jury, told reporters before leaving the courthouse that Irvin was entering the grand jury room. 
First assistant district attor­ney Norm Kinne said last week that Irvin's attorney claimed the All Pro wide receiver never received the subpoena mailed him and that prosecutors had been unable to locate Beck to serve her. 
Irvin and his attorney met with prosecutors Monday at the Frank Crowley Criminal Courts building, but declined comment as they left about 5 p.m., citing a gag order issued by state District Judge John Creuzot. 
"You guys know I can't talk," Irvin said. "What is thet:e to tnlk about? I don't have any­thing to say." 
KXAS-TV of Fort Worth, quoting unidentified sources close to the investigation, reported Friday that Hoberts and Nabwangu refused to testi­fy before the grand jury on Thursday, citing their 5th Amendment right against self­inerimination. 
The station said prosecutors would order them to testify today, promising that nothing they say will be used against them. 
Police said Beck and Nabwangu are topless dancers at a nightclub. 
Only Beck was arrested after police entered an Irving motel room early March 4 after a mo­tel manager made a 911 call to complain about a noisy party involving possible prostitution and drug use. 

~~ ~~~~~~---­

_______...., 

We didn't thinkwe could make it anyeasierto surfthe Net. 
Thday, more students are using Macintosh" 
computers to share ideas on the Internet 
than any other computer. No small wonder, 
either. Because with aMacintosh there are 
no complicated commands needed to get 
up and surfing on the Net. So in amatter 
of minutes you can be on-line accessing 
the exciting new universe of the Internet. 
(Not to mention prospective employers.) 
And right now, buying aMac' is as easy as 
using one. For alimited time, we're offer­
ing special campus savings on selected 
Macintosh computers and Apple" printers. 
So visit us today, and look into the power 
of Macintosh. The power to be your bese 
Butwe justdid. 
For more information tisil us on the Internet at http:llhed.info.apple.comJ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
Bookstore 
continued from page 20 

President's Men), member of the Irish football squad. While that makes for sched­uling headaches, it also brings 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

ARCHERY CUNIC -RecSports will be sponsor­ing an Archery Clinic on Wednesday March 27 from 7-9 .p.m. All equipment will be provided and the fee for the class is $8. Class size is lim· ited and you must register in advance at RecSports. 
HOOPS SHOOT OUT ·~ · RecSports will be spon· soring a Hoop Shoot Out on Wednesday, March 27, at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. The Shoot Out will consist of a One-on-One contest, a Three Point contest and a Free Throw contest. 
BOWLING LEAGUE -RecSports will be sponsor· ing a Bowling League on Thursday nights from March 28-May 2. Register your three-person team in advance at RecSports. Cost is $6 per week per person and includes three games and shoe rental. Play is held at Chippewa Bowl and transportation is not provided. Deadline to reg­ister is Wednesday, Mareh 27. Captain's meet· ing is scheduled for March 27, at 6:15 p.m. in the RecSports office. For more information, call 1-6100. 
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT • This tournament will be on Saturday, March 30, and Sunday, March 31. There will be men's and women's divisions with t-shirts being awarded to all participants. Bring your own racquet, but racquetballs will be provided. Also, refresh­ments will be served. You must register in advance in the RecSports office by Thursday, March 28 and there is a $6 fee. For more infor­mation, call1-6100, 
a high degree of athleticism to the tourney, not to mention sheer size and substantial charisma. 
But Bookstore has something for everybody. For the basket­ball purist, squads such as Showtime, sixth seeded Malicious Prosecution, and the 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL BENEFIT RUN -March 30 is the date for this 5K or 10K run, and 2 mile walk. The run begins at 11 a.m. with the start/finish being at the Rockne Memorial. There will be six divisions for each run with tro­phies being awarded to the top finisher in each division. All registrants will be awarded a t­shirt. The cost of the run is $5 in advance and $6 the day of the event. All proceeds from the event will be donated to Christmas in April. Family members of all staff and faculty will be allowed to participate. All family members over the age of 18 need to complete the standard registration and insurance waiver and all minors need to have their parent or guardian sign the waiver for them. All registration/waiv­er forms can be obtained in the RecSports office and both will also be available at the event. 
DROP-IN VOLLEYBALL ~ RecSports will be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tuesdays April 2, 9, 16, ?3. and 30, from 8-11 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Come by yourself or bring some friends. No established teams or advanced sign-ups nec­essary. 
CASTING AND ANGLING COURSE • Course includes four sessions which meet on Tuesdays from 6 to 7:30p.m. The dates are April2, 9, 16, and 23. Classes are held in the Joyce Center, Rolfs, and campus Jakes. Equipment is provid­ed, but participants are encouraged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and is open to students. staff, and faculty. Advance registration in the RecSports office Is required. 
Ryan Hoover-headlined team, CJ's Wooden Shoes, an eighth seed, will put their fundamen­tal talents on display. 
Starting right after Easter Break, the other 600 or so teams will also put their skills, or Jack thereof, on the line. 
The fun has just begun. 

Wednesday, March 27, 1996 
BOOKSTORE XXV 
I N G S 
17. 
Arcola Broomcom Company 

18. 
Vanilla Kernels 

19. 
Sweeter Than Candy 

20. 
Hood River 


Bandits 21. Team 21 
22. 
Desire 

23. 
Serial Killa 

24. 
Hoopaholics 

25. 
Primetime 

26. 
Oranjeboom 

27. 
All the President•s Men 

28. 
The Observer 

29. 
Stiff Competition 

30. 
We Would•ve Asked ... 

31. 
Poetry in Motion 

32. 
L·Train 



Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Offers slxlum above expire May 15, 1996. See your campus storefor details about/he Apple Cnmpuler !J:Jan. ©1996Apple Cnmputer; In~ All rights reserved Apple, the Apple logo, l.aserWriler; Macintosh, Peiforma, PowerBook, StyleWriter and "7be pouY!r to heyour best" are regislered trademarils ofApple Cnmputer; Inc. Mac andPrJwer Mac artJtrademarils ofApple Cnmpuler, Inc. All Macintosh computers are designed to be accessible to indit'iduals u11b disability. 7IJ learn mortJ (US. only), call800-600-7808 or TlY 800·755-060/. 
----~-------------~--~---~ 
----------------~-­

WcJncsJay, March 27, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• SOFTBALL 
Sizzling Irish seek revenge 
Dame insists revenge won't be their top priority. 
"We enjoy the chance to go up against one of the lop teams in the country," said Irish head eoach Liz Miller. "We need to play our game and not worry about anything else. As long as we do that, we'll be fine." 
After starting the season out slowly, Michigan has come to­gether over the past few weeks to skyrocket in the rankings. The chief reason for the rise has been the emergence of start1~rs Kelly llolmes and Sara Griffin. The duo has been cred­ited with all but two of the Wolverines' 16 wins. 
With a .266 team batting av­erage, the Irish bats should be prepared for the challenge that awaits. Outfielders Jenna Knudsen (.:H5). Katie Marten (.295), and Jennifer Giampaolo (.290) have combined to give Notre Dame a lift since a slug­gish 1-4 start. 
"The hitters have really been pretty consistent to this point of the season." said Miller. "There was a little adjustment at the beginning after practic­ing in Loftus, but they're really starting to come together." 
Second baseman Meghan 

Notre Dame hopes to extend streak 
By MIKE DAY 
A"istJnt Sports Editor 
llot and hottRr are set for a showdown today at Ivy Field­that is. if tlw South Bend weatlwr doesn't get the chance to enol things ofT. 
Two of the nation's hottest ttmms. Notre Dame (18-1 0) and Michigan (16­
71. will resumn an old rivalry today when tlu~y lace up tlw spikes this afler­noon for a doubltdwad-

Giampaolo 

nr. 
Barring a late cancelation, tlw Irish will put their six game winning strnak on the line this afternoon against tlw learn that diminatml thmn last year in the Midwt~st Hegional. Despite what happened in 1995, Notre 
SOUTH BEND • EAST Ironwood Circle 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I 273-8986 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 417 N. St. l.o:Jis Blvd. Call 234.. 0363 
(24 hours) 

I :r•ii:I!•rij;ii[•l:~t3•1: ,,,3:113:ilt•ld;iDI41tJ 
Skills Developed Projects Administered Communication Community Sanitation Leadership Human Immunizations Interpersonal Rabies Vaccinations Foreign Language Environmental Education Cross-Cultural Sensitivity Dental Hygiene Management HlV Prevention Education Organizational 
APPUCATION SPACE STIU. AVAIJABI.n 

FOR TUIS Su.tUmR. 5618 Star Lane APPLY TOIJAYl Houston, TX 77057 800-231-7796 
Murray has been Notre Dame's top offensive player through the first half of the season. She either leads or ranks among the team leaders in batting average (.341), total bases (43), slugging percentage (.489), and runs batted in (19). 
"Fortunately, I was able to adjust quickly to playing out­doors in the warmer weather." said Murray. "That has helped me and my teammates get off to a pretty good start. Hopefully, we can keep that up until the Big East season starts." 
While the hitting has lived up to all preseason expectations, the Irish would not be where they are without superb start­ing pitching. All-American Terri Kobata (9-1 with a 0.61 ERA), Angela Bessolo (7-3), and Joy Battersby (2.86 ERA) have helped give Notre Dame a 1.83 team earned run average. 
'The hitting has been good all year, so we've just tried to do our part for the team," said Bessolo. "We have been able to throw strikes and give our of­fense a chance every time out. Hopefully, we can carry that over to the rest of the season." 

D 
WEEKEND RACQUETBALL 
TOURNAMENT 
SATURDAY & SUNDAY MARCH 30 & MARCH 31 JOYCE CENTER Men's & Women's Divisions T -Shirts to all Participants Bring Your Own Racquet Balls Will be Provided Refreshments Will be Served 
Register in Advance at RecSports Deadline: Thursday, March 28 
Sutntner Help Needed in Latin Atnerica 
Have a summer full of adventure and invest in your future career while working as a community health volunteer! 

Countries Served Mexico Honduras Costa Rica Dominican Republic Ecuador Paraguay Brazil 
Scholarships available. 
~' ... 
..
. ­
The Observer/Rob Finch 

Third baseman Kara McMahon is one reason why the red-hot Irish have won six games in a row entering today's contest with Michigan. Notre Dame hopes to avenge last year's season ending loss. 
$6.00 Fee 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
come unprepared, they may find themselves in a hole. Second-year coach Paul Mainieri cites pitching as the key. "There was a wise former manager that once said, 'Momentum lies in your start­ing pitcher,' " claims Mainieri. "We have a great chance to win if our pitcher plays welL" 
The starting pitcher is Gregg Henebry, a junior who has struggled this season despite past success. "I don't think he's struggling. It's just a mat­ter of getting on track," asserts Lisanti. "Greg had one of our biggest wins against Long Beach State," says Mainieri. "He's a crafty pitcher. He's going to have to mix up his pitches. I think he'll do a good job." 
Tl1e Blacl~ Law Students Association of Notre Dame Law School 
presents 
Reclaiming Society or Destroying Lives? 
A panel discussion on the effect of sentencing reforms, including "three stribes and you're out" and mandatory sentencing without parole laws, on inner-city, minority and youth offenders in lowering crime rates 
Please join us on: 
Date:  Saturday, March 30, 1996  
Time:  1:30, PM  
Place:  Notre Dame Law  
School Courtroom  


------·-------
-------~--------­

page 18 
The Observer • SPORTS 

• BASEBALL 
Brooks leads Irish to fast start 
Second baseman continues to improve 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assisranr Sports Ediror 
Handall Brooks is a new man now. Just ask anyone con­nected with the Notre Dame baseball program. 
"He's trusting himself and his ability to get the job done now," commented assistant coach Cory Mee on the junior second baseman who currently 
leads the team with  a  .415  
average.  
"The  improvement  that  

Randall Brooks has made since I've been here is phenomenal," adds second year head coach Paul Mainieri. "He's as good a second baseman offensively and defensively as I've seen." 
Ask Brooks himself, and the Hazelcrest, Illinois native will tell you the same thing. 
"It took awhile for me to build up my confidence," said Brooks, who hit an admirable .337 in his first full season last year. "I know now that I can play at this level. The whole team is a lot more confident this year. which helps my confidence." 
A career .322 hitter, Brooks has a lot to be confident about this season, as he has already matched his homerun (2), dou­bles (5) and stolen base (5) totals from all of last season. Mee believes that this increased production is due in large part to a solid effort in the weight room. 
"Randall's worked hard in the weight room, adding a lot of strength to his wrists and forearms," said Mee. 
In addition to his work with the weights, Brooks has im­proved his performance at the plate through extended ses­sions with Mee. 
"I think coach Mee has helped me a lot," mused Brooks. "The time I've put in with him has really helped me develop. He really knows a lot about the game." 
Mee is quick to deflect the acclaim for Brooks' early sea­son surge, preferring to credit the player for his tireless efforts. 
"Randall has always had a pretty quick bat," commented 
If you see sports hap­pening, call The Observer at 1-4543. 
Mee. "He's worked real hard this year to use that to his ad­vantage. He's not just a pull hitter now-he can go to all fields. He's also helped him­self hit the offspeed pitch more." 
And just what has all this im­provement at the plate meant for the Irish? Just ask Mainieri. 
"His presence in the number nine spot in the lineup has helped us tremendously," com­mented Mainieri. "He's not your average nine hole hitter." 
Mainieri is certainly right there. He may very well be the finest nine hole hitter in all of collegiate baseball. 
Imagine this scenario: 
You're an opposing pitcher, and you're facing the number nine hitter with two outs and men on base. Normally, all you'd have to do is polish off some shortstop batting .240­something. But not in this case. Instead you're looking in at Brooks, who brings a team­high .465 on-base percentage and a .585 slugging percentage to the plate along with his .415 average. Do you pitch around him? If you do, you'll still have to deal with the top of the order and Rowan Richards, who brings speed, power (four homeruns, 14 RBI) and savvy to the plate. 
Now do you see how much Brooks means to this team? 
But it isn't just at the plate that Brooks has made strides since he took over the starting second baseman's job last sea­son. In fact, to hear Brooks talk, it is his improvement in the field which means the most. 
"I want to become a better defensive player," said Brooks, who currently owns a .959 fielding percentage. "Offensively, I didn't set a lot of goals for myself this season. Defensively, though, I've con­centrated on increasing my range, as well as improving on turning the double play. I think my confidence carries over from hitting to fielding. If I'm hitting well, I'm going to be fielding well also." 
It doesn't take a philosophy major to apply this logic to Brooks' success in the field this season. Good hitting = good fielding. Brooks is hitting .415. You can see where this is leading. 
"Randall has worked hard to improve his range this year," said Mainieri. "When he's playing well in the field, we're turning more double plays, and we're playing better as a team. That's important." 
So what's left to be said about Brooks' performance so far this season? In the end, it all plays out like a good old American success story. 
"Randall's a great kid who loves to play baseball," sum­marized Mainieri. 
"He's worked real hard to get where he is now, and it's nice to see someone who's worked so hard succeed," said Mee. 
Who said nice guys always finish last? 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Notre Dame second baseman Randall Brooks has helped the Irish jump out to a 13-7 start. The veteran infielder is hitting an incredible .415 after hitting .337 last season for the Irish. 

sonBJU.L 
2:00 p.m. • vs. Michigan Ivy Field 
WEDNESDAY 
4:00 p.m. • vs. Indiana State Frack Eck Stadium 
BASEBALL 
Wt:dncsday, March 27, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE 
DAVE KELLETT 



DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 

:1
LOOK AT THE AGREEJI'\ENT MY 
0 NO PROBLEM. J'U5T RET'<PE 
WOULDN'T 
MA'I'BE '<OU 

" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

IT WITH fJ... FEW STRATEGIC 
THAT 13E 
COULD JUST 
O"\ISSION5 AND SIGN 1T. TI-\E'I' CI\Ni PR.OOFRE.I\0 E\/EI\'1' ONE. 

81 Soup ingredient  
82 Buzzer  
83 Land east of the  
Urals  
54 Succulent plant  
85 Spread out  
88 Seven-foot, e.g.  
87 McCartney's  
instrument  
88 Scornful cries  
u  
DOWN  
1 One of 21 popes  
2Zone  
3 Puff  
4 Differently  
5 Legal  
8 Revise  
7 Bygone Chevy  
8 Notice of  
departure  
eFront-line  
physician  
10 Texas city on the  
Rio Grande  
11 Elide  
12 Arizona river  34 Needing a rinse  52 Pierce  58 Light ring  
13 Sir Anthony  38 60's fashion  53 Gwen Verdon  57 Smell-­ 
21 Be up 22 Cycle enthusiast 25 Distributed 28 Fire remnant 27 Not flat 280bscure  plate 37 Oil source 402:1, e.g. 41 Stretch 48 Transitions  role 54 Subjects of 58-Down investigations 55 Rival rival  58 Fliers' mil. branch 58 Sing with grace eo Mineo and others  
2t Prefix with red  48 Lover's sound  
30 Sidewalk umbrella sites 32 Eyes 33 Shish ~  50 Big hit 11 September TV special, with "the"  Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute).  


YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
COMPAN'< IS FORCING US 10 SIGN. THEY CLAIM THE 
RIGHTS TO AN'I' 1.DEA 1\N 
U\PLO'I'EE E\/ER HA5. 
HAPPY lllRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Financial investments receive new 
attention. Keep all of your business 
dealings strictly aboveboard. 
Accepting assistance from someone 
with a hidden agenda could cause 
complications. Romance will nour­
ish all year long if you treat your 
loved one like your best friend. Part­
nerships launched early in 1997 
should bring special blessings. You 
decide to attempt something that 
you have admired others for doing. 
Never regret your affectionate, trust­
ing nature. Love begets love! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON 
THIS DAY: singer Mariah Carey, 
football player Randall Cunning­
ham, singer Sarah Vaughn, gymnast 
Ban Conner. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Get out and socialize today. A new 
job or romance awaits! Put on a nice 
outfit and add a smile. Someone 
who is inclined to worry should be 
given a pep talk. Offer specific sug­
gestions. 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Faint ~ean never won anything. Put all of your energy into the project closest to your hean. Wedding plans are likely to change. Be sensible. Avoid entering into marriage with a lot of new debts. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): New interests, including charity work, will take your mind off a recent loss. Welcome additional responsibilities at work. Higher-ups know they can count on you in a crunch. Remind them at bonus time! 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your energy level is at an all-time high. Nothing can dent your zest for life. The assignments you tackle gain a special sparkle. A romantic interlude could leave you breathless. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Yester­day's lucky trends continue. Make the most of an opportunity to fatten 
your bank account. Your employ­
ment or romantic prospects rece1ve a 
welcome boost. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·Sept. 22): 
Seize a chance to show others how 
adaptable you are. Obstacles left in 
your path will not stop your march 
to success. This evening, an unex­
pected visitor or phone call causes a 
nutter of excitement. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): If 
yesterday was busy, today will be 
even busier! Someone new to your 
social circle makes life seem full of 
possibilitie:;. A delightful friendship 
gets underway. 
SCORI'IO (Oct. :.-!3-Nov. 21): 
Someone you met only brieny occu­
pies your thought~. No one enjoys a 
romantic pursuit more than you! 
Make sure your passion of the 
moment returns your love. Coming 
on too strong would be a mistake. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
21): You are in an optimistic frame 
of mind this morning. Make up your 
mind about a new money-making 
venture. If it involves hard work, so 
much the better. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are about to enjoy another stroke of good luck. Domestic life is harmonious when you show appre­ciation for your mate's relatives. Your romantic prospects have never been better! 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A co-worker you distrust may resign. Volunteer to work extra hours in order to complete a project on time. Donating unwanted items to charity will reduce a tax burden. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Spur-of-the-moment decisions sel­dom work well in business or finance. Today is the exception! TI1e bottom line improves. Consult an attorney or accountant before mak­ing an investment. 
) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Practical joke 5 Malice 10 Opera house 
box 14 Kind of history 15 Southwest 
home 18 During 17 Cluckers 18 More than angry 18 Rankle 20Whatthe 
N.B.A.'s Thurmond did in Lhasa, palindromically? 
23Gum unit 24 England's F.B.I. 25 Bank statement 
entry 28 Pen name 
• OF INTEREST 
Welfare Reform panel discussion will be held April 1 at 6:30 p.m. in the CSC, Rm. 124. Speakers from the Little Flower Catholic Church, the South Bend Center for the Homeless and the Division of Family and Children Services of St. Joe County will be partici· pating. Job Search Orientation for Juniors will highlight the typos of activities involved in preparing for the job search, as well as how Career and Placement Services can assist in this process. The presentation will be held today from 6:30-7:30 p.m. in LaFortune's Foster Room. Department of Nursing and Sigma Theta will be holding a Research Symposium today at 7 p.m. in Havican Hall, Hoom One. Senior nursing students will be speaking. Admission is free. Indiana Collegiate Job Fair will be in Indianapolis on March 29 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. A list of employ~ ers that have signed up for this year's fair ean be found on the World Wide Web at the following site: http://www .iupui .ed u/i t/j obfair/home. h tml. Registration at the door is $20. Those attending should bring resumes. Call (317) 274-3215 for more information. 
U.S. Army School of Americas/School of As­sassins, a video nanated by Susan Sarandon, will be shown tomorrow in the Sorin Hoom every half hour between 12 and 2 p.m., and at R nnd 8:30 p.m.. 
•MENU  
Notre Dame North Chicken Teriyaki Sandwich Beef Stew with Biscuits Meatless Baked Ziti Saint Mary's Grilled Ham Steak Beef Chimichangas Pasta Bar  South Turkey Noodle Ca...'is. Chili Crispitos Eggplant Parnwsan  

jPiease Recycle the Observer! 
31 Wackos 35 Big birds 38 Threaten 38 Logical prefix 38 Like Napoleon, 
palindromically? 42 Itinerary section 431dolized 44Spring 45 Rendezvous 47 Di-Gel target 48 SO's top-rated 
TV star 48 Winter woe, in 
Wittenberg 51 Ages and ages 52 Wallop Nebraska 
tycoons, palinromically? 

-
• 
• 

If you thought there was a slight connection between striking a loved one, vandalizing property, getting arrested, throwing up, getting injured, ruining relationships, and artichokes, you would probably stop eating artichokes .... 
Do any of these things happen when you drink alcohol? Then maybe it is time you stop. 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 
~------------------------~----~----~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------~ 
·I 
'' 
SPORTS 
20 

• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Seedings announced for 25th annual hoop tournament 
By TIM SHERMAN because we graduated a lot of tough," said Benedict Rocchio, 
Spons Editor teams," Executive Bookstrore point guard of 7th seeded Commisioner John "Chuch" SWOOSH. Albrighton said. "There were Rounding out the top seeds a lot of teams in the middle of are 1995 finalists NBT III. Dos the bracket that are very even. Kloskas, Showtime, and the They can decide it on the always excitable C.C.E. squad. court." C.C.E., who will feature Pete 
As expected, Models, Inc. II Chryplewicz, Brian Ziolkowski, was the top seed for the sec­and Derek Gustafson, is also in ond consecutive year. the running for the services of 
The defending champions Justice. boast returning members "The thing about Bookstore Conrad James and Renaldo is that you're never really sure Wynn, as well as a semi-final­who will end up playing for ist from last year, La Ron who," said Greg Bieg, another Moore (Pink Sky in the senior commisioner. Morning). "Some guys will wait until 

gives As is always the case with the last minute and sign-up March Madness a new twist. Bookstore, the rumor mill is with a top team. But we try to 
Last night, the Bookstore flying as to who will round out do as best we can, based on Commisioners waded through the squad. input from a lot of people, to well over 600 teams to come Currently, fullback Jerome put teams where they belong." up with, in their collective Bettis of the St. Louis Rams, By the looks of things, many mind, the best 32 teams on who is taking classes at Notre of this year's top seeds belong paper. Dame, and former Irish point more on the gridiron than the 
Paper is one thing. It re­guard Lamarr Justice, also basketball court. mains to be seen how well enrolled, are the most popular Of the 32 seeded squads, at those teams will fare on con­candidates. least 17 feature one or more crete. And that is the beauty "Models Inc. II is definitely current or past (Bettis and of Bookstore Basketball. the team to beat but the teams D'Juan Francisco of All the 
"Seeding was more difficult that have been around and this year than in year's past have played together are see BOOKSTORE I page 16 
• BASEBAll. 
Irish look for home success 


The Observer/Mike Ruma Jason Newcomer and Swoosh were one of 32 teams to be seeded for the annual Bookstore tournament. The junior-dominated team joins a host of experienced squads in this year's field. 
Auriol adjusts to life as head coach 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY Spons Writer 
In professional baseball, the home opener usually occurs early into the season. The game is a sign of spring, tradi­tion and renewed hopes for the hometown sluggers and faith­ful. But The Big Game for Notre Dame, scheduled for today against Indiana State, has been long-awaited for play­ers and fans. Besides the fact that Notre Dame has played its first 21 games on the road, yes­terday's game at Eck Field against Wisconsin-Milwaukee was canceled due to the biting cold. 
When the Irish (13-7) trot
-onto The Eck today, they will be hungry. They are clobber­ing the opposition, having won seven of the last eight games, and they are jubilant about the slew of home games on the horizon. "It's important to get a win here," says catcher Bob Lisanti. "We make it [the home field] something that we take pride in. We have to make it real difficult on other teams and now is the time. Opponents make it hard on us when we're on the road, and we plan to return the favor. It's really matter of pride." 
A swift glance at Indiana State's record (7-12) could be misleading. The Sycamores generally clamp down on tougher teams. If the Irish 
see BASEBALL I page 17 
Softball 
vs. Michigan, Wednesday, March 27, 2p.m.

• 
Men's Tennis 
at Indiana, Sunday, March 31 


By WILLY BAUER The younger members of the Sports Writer team may have salvaged a few victories for Auriol as freshmen Days before taking his team Luke LaValle, Sara Walsh and to the NCAA fencing champi­Myriah Brown have come up onships, coach Yves Auriol was with clutch victories all season. talking about the guys that did The more established members not make it. of the team also contributed to 
''I'm a little disap-the team's successful pointed that we didn't 
season. The qualify the maximum upperclassmen-laden of ten fencers for the men's foil, sabre and NCAAs," lamented women's epee teams Auriol. "After their garnered rave reviews performance at the from Auriol. regionals, Phillip Lee "I was expecting Bill and Paul Capobianco Lester to have a good should have made it." season," said Auriol.
Auriol 

Even with this "dis­"Jeremy Siek also had a appointment," Auriol's first good season. The women's season of coaching both the epee team had a solid season. men's and women's teams has They are very close to each measured up well to Notre other." Dame's lofty standards. Auriol "Maybe we could have done a was the coach of the women's little better. We lost a men's team for ten years before tak­match to UPenn that we ing over the head role this sea­shouldn't have," said Auriol the son from Mike DeCicco, coach perfectionist. of 34 years. During Auriol's A highlight for Auriol this tenure, the Irish came away season was coaching his son, from the NCAA championships Stephane Auriol. Stephane, a with the title three times. This freshman, slowly W(}rked his year, he is working on number way through the ranks of the four. Irish foilists and fenced well 
"We had a good season," enough to participate in the 
reminisced Auriol. "We could regional finals. have done much better if we "It was interesting (coaching hadn't lost (epee) Carl Jackson Stephane)," said Auriol. "At se­
on the men's side. I knew we lection time, I tried not to inter­would have a young team com­fere. I allowed the assistant ing into the season. I was pleaseq with the results." 
see FENCING I page 14 
• Nebraska advances to NIT finals
a) 
at Georgia, Friday, March 29 see page 15 
~ 
Track •• •Bam Morris found with cocaine 

at Purdue Invitational Saturday, March 30 CIJ 
see page 15 

SMC Sports JS •Lakers snap Magic home streak 
Tennis at Washington University, see page 12
Friday, March 29 

~ 



