

Wednesday, May 1, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 135 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

The Observer/Brian Hardy 
Studen~s rehP.::Hs., rh., upcoming production of 'A Miasummer Night's Dream, aearcatea to senior Mandy Abdo. 
'Dream' performances dedicated to Abdo 
By PATRICK MCGOVERN Company and had planned to New\ Wrirer dirnet a student play this spring. Aftnr the accident, 
In anotlwr show of support students who knew of t\bdo's for Mandy Ahdo, the senior plan approached English snriously injurPd in a ear Professor Paul Hathburn accidrHlt last NovnmiH~r. the about directing a play in her snnior rlass is sponsoring thn honor. production of Shaknspeare's Hathhurn, who has taught "t\ 1\1 idsummr~ r N i g h t' s Abdo in three of his elasses, llrr•am." Tlw play will be readily aecepted and now dndieatnd to Ahdo and her leads the east of primarily family. seniors from all dif'l'erent 
l'erfornHtnCt)S will takf~ majors. plal'n during srmior week on "We had so many students May 15-17 in Washington who auditioned for the play II all. and wanted to be a part of 
Ahdo was a nwmber of the Not So Hoyal Shakespeare see ABDO/ page 4 

Events to honor O'Meara 
Special to The Observer Theodore Hesburgh will deliver College of Business Adminis­
the homily. tration atrium from 4:30-5:30 
Timothy O'Meara, who will A retrospective entitled "Tim­p.m., to be followed later in the retire June 30 as provost of the othy O'Meara: Scholar, Admin­evening by a private receptionUniversity of Notre Dame. will istrator, Catholic Layman" will and dinner on campus. 
be honored in a series of events be presented from 2:30-4:30 As provost, O'Meara is the today on 
p.m. in the College of Business University's second officer-di­campus. Adminstration's Jordan Audi­rectly after the president. His O'Meara's 
torium. University President primary responsibilities are outstanding Father Edward Malloy will par­academic, and the deans of the contributions ticipate as will Nathan Hatch, four colleges, the Law School to the 
provost-elect and vice-presi­and the First Year of Studies University in dent for graduate research; report to him, as do the vice 18 years as Sister Alice Gallin, former exec­president for graduate studies provost will utive director of the Association and research and all other be celebrated O'Meara 
of Catholic Colleges and chief academic administrators. in a Mass of Universities and a Notre Dame A professor of mathematics thanksgiving at 12:30 p.m. in Life Trustee; Father James since joining the University's the Basilica of the Sacred Heft, provost of the University faculty in 1962, O'Meara came Heart. Father William of Dayton; and Alex Hahn, pro­to Notre Dame from Princeton Beauchamp, Notre Dame's fessor of mathematics at Notre University, where he had re­executive vice president, will 
Dame. ceived his doctorate in 1953. preside and the University's A public reception for president emeritus, Father O'Meara will take place in the see O'MEARA/ page 4 
SMC favors dining hall smoking ban 
By DONNA MIRANDOLA News Writer 
A recent vote of Saint Mary's students showed an over­whelming majority favors ban­ning smoking in the dining hall. 
72 pereent, or 308 students, voted "yes" to thn proposal of banning smoking while 28 per­cent, or 120 students, voted "no" to the proposal. 
The April 24 vote was spon­sored by a group of concerned students led by freshman Am­

Should SMC Ban Smoking in 
its Dining Hall? 

NO 
28% YES 72% 
turn out, the results were dis­gers of smoking and second
ber Fraiser with the backing of 
carded and Fraiser decided to hand smoke.
the Board of Governance (BOG). 
hold another vote aiming for a "By throwing statistics up, we
Students are currently al­
much higher level of student really wanted students to real­
lowed to smoke in the in the 
interest and participation. ize the dangers of second hand
dining hall, in a designated area 
Flyers were posted around smoke," stated Fraiser.
by the grill bar. 
campus publicizing this second The second vote had a much
A previous vote concerning 
opportunity to vote. On the fly­
the smoking issue was held on 
ers were faets about the dan-
March 20. Due to a low voter see SMOKING/ page 4 

Minimum wage raise balances politics, economics 
minimum wage be a living in Public Service, Dole's threat
liy lliLL CONNOLLY 
wage." They considered this not is not a very realistic: one. "I
Assi\r.1111 News EJirnr 
Women shoulder 
an economic issue at all, but don't think his threat is viable 
"an issue of values and the kind given that the Hepublicans ean't
Tlw issLw of raising tlw min­
of society we would like to be ... look like they're against the
imum wage has hr~come one of 
If we value work and we value working class. At best, he can
tlw most contPntious dt~bat•~s in 

burden of low wages 
families, we ought to raise the threaten to wrap the bill in with
Washington. The public has 
By CONNIE CASS "When I started working, 
value of the minimum wage." other proposals not promising
p rHSSIHI tlw 
Associated Press my picture of someone mak­
In doing so, they defined a liv­to the Democrats and organized
issue upon its 
ing minimum wage was a 
ing wage as $5.15 an hour. labor."
r n p 
PHINCE GEORGE, Va. high school student working 
They felt this increase would The main reason Hepublicans
resentatives, 
increase workers' standards of want to stop an increase in the
She's a woman. over 20, liv­in a fast food joint," said
with over HO 
ing in the South and working Dorothy Metcalf, 26, a 
living and spending power and minimum wage is the fear of
)H~rcent of 
part time. She may be serving teacher in a southern Virginia 
help the economy at the same inflation caused by the increase
Arnnrieans in 
time. in workers' salaries. Further,
up burgers and fries, but a child care center. "As an
favor of an in­
typieal minimum wage earner adult, it's hard getting by on 
However, in his 1992 election some fear that many employers
l:rease of the 
campaign, Clinton did not in­will fire the workers they can no
also might be found tending minimum wage."
Ill i II i Ill ll Ill 
clude raising the minimum longer afford to employ at the
to the siek, the elderly or chil­When she started at James
wagr~. accord­
dren -jobs considered Child Development Center, 
wage as a key part of his plat­new minimum wage, resulting
ing to most polling data. 
"women's work" and paid as Metcalf, 26, was working part 
form. He did not even instruct in a dramatic increase in unem­
Tlw plan favon~d by most in 
such. time, as do about two-thirds 
his officials to discuss the issue ployment.
Washington. including nearly all 
until this year. At the start of
Three out of five workers in of minimum wage earners.
eongressional l>mnoerats and 
line for raises if the minimum She has since increased her 
1996, Democrats began trying see WAGE/ page 4
l'residrwt Bill Clinton. is an 
wage goes up to $5.15 an hours -slowing her pursuit 
to attach a minimum wage in­
inerease from $4.25 an hour to 
hour are women. They are of a college degree -and 
crease to numerous pieces of
$5.15 1111 hour. 
sales clerks and farm work­continues to live with her 
Republican-sponsored legisla­
Mathematically, it seems ob­
This is the last 

ers and janitors, married and parents. as do a third of 
tion.
vious that sueh an inerease in 
In response, Senate Majority 
regular issue of the

single, mothers and daugh­
pay would lw bnnelidal in the 
see WOMEN/ page 4

ters still living at home. 
leader Bob Dole, Clinton's main
short run for those making the 
1995-96 school year.

campaign rival, has threatened
minimum wage. llow1wer. like 
Hepublicans. On April Fool's It took five people to write the 
any other topic in Washington, to keep any minimum wage bill 
The commence­

Day. the Wall Street Journal article -Treasury Secretary
thn politieal and r~eonomie ben­off the floor. Dole runs the risk
published an op-ed piece from Robert Rubin, deceased Com­
ment issue will

tdits of an inerease in the mini­off becoming extremely unpop­
the Clinton administration in m·erce Secretary Ron Brown, 
mum wage are two entirely dif­ular in doing so, as an over­
appear May 17. 

favor of a minimum wage in­Labor Secretary Hobert Heich,
frm•ntthings. whelming amount of Americans 
crease. It was the beginning of and two of the administration's 
Have a safe and

Politically, the issun is turning favor a minimum wage
Clinton's move to make the is­top economists, Joseph Stiglitz
into a trump eard for increase. 
pleasant summer.

sue a focal point for the country and Laura Tyson. Their con­
Democrats and a burden for According to Peri Arnold, di­
during this election year. tention was to "insist that the 
rector of the llesburgh Program 
. I I Itt I_ 


---------~-----~
~-~-~-­

Wednesday, May 1, 1996
page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 
• WORi..D AT A GLANCE 
Flood waters recede in the Midwest, states begin cleanup 
• INSIDE ColUMN 
All the Right Reasons 
Ah, spring. The when young people's fancies turn to thoughts of love. 
And fortunately, Right Reason has enlightened me that I may choose whom I fall in love with. This binding and intimate emotion may be shared with anyone I so choose. Liz Foran

So I should just pick the 
Editor-in-Chief
best option. Maybe insti­tute an application process? 
But I think what we're really talking about is sex, or sexual pleasure, to be more exact. Socialization accounts for our sexual desires, according to Right Reason, and therefore that is why homosexuals desire members of the same sex as heterosexuals would desire mem­bers of the opposite sex. A disorder, they say, that just needs to be reprogrammed by their caring Christian brothers and sisters who take it upon themselves to bear the cross of self­lessly caring for these wayward sinners. 
But sexual pleasure can be achieved in a variety of ways. Masturbation can achieve the same effect. Sex is sex and love is love, and sex does not have to occur for there to be a strong intimate love between two people, and sex can also occur without any emotional involvement. Individuals can choose how, or with whom they achieve sexual pleasure if they so choose, but love is more complicated than that. You can't help who you fall in love with, which is why some people overcome seemingly insurmountable odds in order to be together. 
But what am I saying? Sex is one of those words we can't talk about on a campus of cor­ruptible youths. One hint of it in a lecture, on whisper of the word "condom." and all those Catholic values ingrained in them from birth will fly out the window. We can't give them any ideas. People will be having sex in their dorm rooms, on the quad, in Debartolo. Ah, the horror. 
The same is true for gay and lesbian issues. We can't let the word get out on that either. One speaker on the topic, one admission that this "disorder" exists at Notre Dame, and before you know it, half the population will not only be having sex in their dorms and on the quads, but they'll be doing it with mem­bers of the same sex. Once people find out homosexuals exist, they might decide that a lifestyle of being discriminated against, the butt of countless jokes and the object if irra­tional hatred sounds like fun. Who wouldn't? 
People can think for themselves and make 
informed decisions with all this opposing 
viewpoints infiltrating the campus. As a 
Catholic University, isn't it our duty to stifle all 
opposing views and expressions of different 
ways of living to protect our students from 
even knowing that people can be different, 
even on their own campus? If people don't 
know the other ways exist, then they can't 
make informed choices -they have no 
choice. The more we shelter our students, the 
less they know, the more likely they'll be to 
never question anything, especially the 
Catholic Church. Free thought will stop! 
Victory! 
I think it's time for me to go stick my head 
in the sand again. Have a great summer. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAV'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
John Lucas  Brian Blank  
Dave Tyler  
Sports  Production  
Mike Day  John Hutchinson  
Accent  Jackie Moser  
Leslie Field  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Meaghan Smith  Dave Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excep1 during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Pres~. All rt'production rights are resen,ed. 
Torrential rains eased and the cleanup began Tuesday in the Midwest, where hun­dreds of people were forced out of their homes by weekend storms that killed six people, including two children. 
The storm system, which had dropped up to 9 inches of rain on Illinois, Ohio, Indiana and Missouri since Sunday, broke up and moved on, leaving behind swamped homes, power outages and plenty of damage. 
Donald Beachler watched as workers fixed the battered roof of his fireworks company outside Dayton, Ohio, which was raked by winds up to 120 mph. Shingles and other debris were scattered around his Imperial Enterprises Inc. 
"You've got to go on with life," Beachler said. He estimated the damage at $100,000. 
In Dayton's Deeds Park, a stand of tower­ing Siberian elms toppled onto the streets. Cleanup crews used chain saws and chip­pers to clear them away. 
"These trees are top-heavy," Charles Barlow said as he helped clean up. "When a storm gets a hold of them, it blows them over." 
Two deaths in Ohio were blamed on the weather: a 6-year-old boy who grabbed a live electrical wire in his flooded back yard, and a 15-month-old who wandered into a creek. In Missouri, three people died in weather-related traffic accidents, and a fisherman was killed when his boat cap­sized. The Mississippi and Missouri rivers were expected to crest over the next couple of days. 
Midwest flooding D 
lnchesabovefloodstageTuesday 
• Inches above flood stage Wednesday (anticipated) 
····--, ) I 
/ 
' ) 
____.___\ 
Chicago '~-eGary \ ' \ 

KANSAS 
MISSOURI -~~-·--·--0 Joplin 
r--··-~·~·~~~ ~~ .··~-···~··-~~~~~·~···~·· ·~ ~~-~~~-.~~-·~, 
*FL = flood level 

OKLAHOMA 1 ARKANSAS 
0 Hail and winds of up to 80 mph have damaged Joplin, Mo. 
6 Lightning struck and killed two of Anheuser-Busch's lamed Clydesdales at apetting zoo. 0 Officials evacuated about 400 homes and 163 nursing-home residents Monday. An additional 
500 homes remain threatened as state emergency workers brought in powerful pumps to help drain sections of the city. 0 Mudslides closed roads and knocked a freight train engine off its tracks Monday morning. 9 In West Frankfort, Ill., floodwaters forced the evacuation of 50 homes. 
Source: Accu-Weather AP!Wm. J. Castello 
Webber's new production: A baby girl Red meat linked with lymph cancer 
LONDON CHICAGO 
Sir Andrew Lloyd Webber had nothing 
Middle-aged women who ate a lot of red meat were but superlative notices for his latest more likely than those who ate a little to develop a cer­production Tuesday night: a baby girl. tain type of lymph cancer, a study in Iowa found. The Daughter Isabella Aurora is the third study's authors cautioned against overemphasizing the child of the 48-year-old composer and results. Studies of red meat and lymphoma have yielded his wife Madeline. Lloyd Webber, who conflicting findings. "This is one report, and so we're not scored "Cats" and "Jesus Christ making any public health recommendations off it," said Superstar," has four musicals currently co-author Dr. James Cerhan, an assistant professor of playing in London's West End. His most preventive medicine and environmental health at the recent project, "By Jeeves! ", is a collaboration with University of Iowa College of Medicine in Iowa City. "The noted playwright Alan Ayckbourn, a musical of P.G. findings support what the American Cancer Society and Wodehouse's beloved butler Jeeves, set to open on the National Institutes of Health are saying.... Cut back Wednesday. "What a momentous week-two Lloyd on red meat, cut back on saturated fat and increase fruits Webber productions. This afternoon in London in collab­and vegetables in the diet." In the Iowa study, women oration with my wife and tomorrow in Scarborough in ages' 55 to 69 who ate more than 36 servings of red meat collaboration with Alan Ayckbourn," Lloyd Webber said. per month were about twice as likely to develop non­Lloyd Webber has two other children from his first mar­Hodgkin's lymphoma over seven years as women who ate riage. fewer than 22 servings per month. 
Dump truck hits skywalk, injures six Teen stops runaway school bus 
KNOX, Ind. 

Police and school officials are calling a 17 -year-old high school student a hero after he stopped a runaway bus when the driver slumped unconscious at the wheel. All 25 passengers survived the scary ride and have John Waldron to thank for saving them, authorities said. The children received bumps and bruises, but there were no serious injuries in Monday afternoon's wild ride. Waldron noticed that substitute bus driver Michael Browning had missed the two last turns and was not re­sponding to his young passengers. Browning, who blacked out for an unknown reason, failed to make two turns and instead went down a dirt lane. The bus then hit a wooden county bridge over Eagle Creek Ditch. The bus drove into a field before Waldron was able to stop it. 
LANSING, Mich. 
A dump truck with its bed jacked high slammed into a pedestrian overpass near a school, tearing the walkway loose and flinging six children 15 feet to the ground. Two 8-year-olds were critically injured. The accident took place as the school let out Monday afternoon. The driver, 39-year-old Marcelo Olivarez Jr., had just dropped off a load. He was questioned by police and re­leased with no charges filed. There was no indication the truck had mechanical trouble. But Hofman said the company was inspecting all of its trucks of similar design. The 14 1/2-foot-high walkway was erected to help Maplewood Elementary School students safely cross a busy five-lane street. Four children ages 6 to 8 were hospitalized. 


Wednesday, May 1 AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, May 1. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pf'Bssure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VtaA.ssDaatooPress 

Arlington Hts 55 33 Columbus 50 40 Miami 83 76 Atlanta 64 37 Dallas 81 40 Minneapolis 58 31
4,~,~9.6.fr. Q t) ~ 2:3 
Baltimore 72 67 Denver 59 30 New Orleans 71 53 

Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 64 45 Los Angeles 96 66 New York 61 48 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
C 1996 AccuWeather. Inc. 
Chicago 52 35 Medicine Hat 45 40 Stamford 65 47 
____________________________ ....................... _______ _ 

-------------------------------------------------------------------~----------------------­
-
Wc~1csday, May I, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 

Express check-out eases hassle 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Saint Mary's News Ediwr 
Aware of the hassles of mov­ing out in thn midst of finals, residnnee halls will give stu­dents a new exprnss check-out option, aceorcling to Suzy Orr, dirnctor of residence life and housin).{. 
llowever, with this eonve­ninnen comes stiffer penalties for dweking-out late. 
Studnnts will have the option of <:hoosing the standard check­out mdhod usnd in previous years or the new <~xpnlSS check­out nwthod. 
Under the new express check­out system, students obtain an <lXprnss dwck-out envelope, then after the room is complete­ly cleared out, residents turn in their key at the front desk and leave, without an appointment with a resident adviser or a member of the hall staff. 
Orr, in her second year as di­rector of residence life and housing, has been considering implementing this new system since last year, modeling it after larger universities. 
"We know this is a frustrat­ing and busy time for students. This is one way to make it eas­ier," Orr said. 
Because the two options are offered, the latn check-out fee of $25 is eliminated, and any stu­dent who ehecks out after 12 
p.m. May 11 is tagged with an 

"****!HILARIOUS AND ROMANTIC!" 
No•MAN MAKII:, NfiC·l'V 

"TERRIFICALLY ENTERTAINING! 
ONE OF THE 10 BEST PICTURES OF THE YEAR!" 
Pnu nt.Avns ROLUNG STONE 
SENSE~ 
SENSIBILITY 
Friday & Saturday at 8:00p.m. Carroll Auditoriu1n 
Free Admission 
Sponsored by SAB 
"improper check out fee" of 
$100, according to Orr. 
"Because students have the 
luxury of checking out express 
anytime, there is no excuse for 
checking out late," she said. 
No exceptions will be made 
for the noon check-out time, 
because of the "instant turn­
around time needed for com­
mencement housing," said Orr. 
A major issue brought up by 
the new system is that, by opt­
ing for the express check-out, 
students give up their right to 
be present during room in­
spection. 
"The advantage to the other [standard[ process is that if you know of damages in your room, you will be there to answer questions," said Orr. "However, if your room is in good condition, the express sys­tem is right for you." 
By signing the forms for the express system, students waive their rights to appeal any dam­age, missing item or cleaning charges, and will be automati­cally held financially responsi­ble for any inconsistencies from the fall room condition report. 
Hall staff members anticipate the success of the new system. 
"I think it's a great idea," said Hegina Hesident Adviser Kara Masucci. "The housing de­partment has really worked hard to make check out stress­free for the students and hall staff." 
The change from coll~e to work doesn't hove to be on uncomfortable one. Just like changing your 
beot·up college geor for a stylish and comfortable pair of dress shoes, a career with Danko Business 
Systems con tie just what you need to get you off to the right start in the right career. 
With: comprehensive soles training, lucrative, established territories, career development planning, full benefit program, 401 K, and unlimited earning potential, you con easily see the advantages of being on ACCOUNT REPRESENTATIVE with Danko. 
As the notion's largest, independent, totally integrated manufacturer and marketer of copiers and fox machines, in partnership with Kodak, we're positioned for expansion in the marketplace. And so con you. Our superior quality products, staff support and nearly unlimited paten· tiallor growth !;live our soles Ioree the backing they need to make their mark in this h1ghly competitive field. This is the time to find out about a great career with Danko. 
Contact Jim Archer for an interview: 
PH: 1·800-837-2631 FAX: 312-527-1786 
E-mail: dankaworld@aol.com 
...1!"!!'!1!!!1!-.ll!!!'!llt Equal Opportunity Employer 
DANCA 
World-doss products. I#Jrld-class seroice. 

Department of German and Russian Summer Language Institute 
June 18 -July 30, 1996 The Notre Dame German and Russian Summer Institute offers an intensive summer program of courses and cultural enrichment. Earn up to 9 language credits in German and 5 language credits in Russian in small, lively classes taught with imagination. Recent ND gradu­ates benefit from a 50% reduction in tuition. films • videos • interactive vi,teo • computers • video discs • experienced professors 
• ,Jai/y tutorials in state-o/-tlw-art language lab • tuition savings • personal attention 
• ima inativ£> instruction • /iuel classroom atmos here 
Courses offered: GE I 0 I Beginning German 1: 6/18 -7/2 (3 credits) 
1ntens1ve Introduction to German for students w1th no or m1nimal background 
GE I 02 Beginning German II: 7/3 -7117 (3 credits) 
contlnUdtlon of GE I0 I 
GE I 03 Beginning German Ill: 7/18-7/31 (3 credits) 
cont1nuat1on of GE I02 
Fulfills NO language requirement. raught daily I0:20AM to I2:30PM. Tutorial at I:30PM. GE 240 Conversational German: 6/18-7/30 (3 credits) 
a course for students of all ages w1th some background in German (I 0 II I02 =elementary or equivalent). Emphas1s on conversatiOn, speak1ng fluency and comprehension, using interactive video discs together with accompanying textbook. Commun1cate effectively and appropriately 1n a range of common Situations and for a vanety of purposes. 
Fulfills NO language requirement. Taught TTH 6:00PM to 8:30PM. RU 101 First Year Russian: 6/18-7/30 (5 credits) 
lntens1ve 1ntroduct1on to Russian w1th emphasis on practical conversation, basic grammar and vocabulary. No prerequ1s1tes. Taught MTWTH 6:30PM to 8:30PM. Application forms may be obtained by writing to: Summer School Director 312 Main Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 
No, not that John Lucas... 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Philadelphia 76ers coach and recovered cocaine addict John Lucas spoke last night at the JACC, to benefit Life Treatment Centers. 
Hipp-Beeler Scholarship shared by Dolan, Lovell 
Observer Staff Report 
Many students remember the bus crash which on .Jan. 24, 1992, claimed the lives of two members of the Notre Dame swim team. At that time, the friends of Colleen llipp and Mnghan Beeler originated a scholarship in their remem­brance. 
The annual Hipp-Beeler Freshmen Memorial Scholar­ship was awarded this year to Colleen Dolan and Kurt Lovell, who will receive scholarship assistance from the fund for the 1996-97 academic year. 
The two students were cho­sen from among several others nominated by the Freshman Writing Program who chose each candidate on the basis of his/her character including an ability to clearly communicate ideas, an ability to accept and synthesize the criticism of oth­ers, a displayed sense of self­confidfmee, and an embodi­ment of the Notre Dame spirit. 
Hecipients were then select­ed from thPs<~ candidates according to financial need. 
Funding from this nndowed scholarship has come from private contributions as well as proceeds from "The Shirt." Student Government has also hoped to inerease the amount of available scholarship money through future Student Gov­ernment fundraising initia­tives. 
The llipp-Beeler Freshmen Memorial Scholarship is awarded each spring semester to two freshmen not only in remembrance of Hipp and Beeler but also to memorialize the lives of all students who have passed away during their years at the University. 


May is Sunglass Month 
What do you look for in selecting a pair ofPremium Sungla.~ses or Performance Sport Eyewear? 
• Desig1wr Brands • Style und Sophislienlinn with nn EmphnHIH on Fnslum • Comfnrl, Prolt't'lion nnd P .. rformoJU'<' • Advnnt'('(l Ey••w••nr T.,dmnlogy • Gr.,nl Choices for Aduhs nnd Childr••n • Gr••nl V nln••• nnd l'ri<•••• • 
GuarnniN•d Cuslonl<'r Sutisfn<'lion •  ~  
~~,,__.  I.Jlii!S Bi~·  ~  ~"';;I'!Ct  
~ 

·# For the first time in Mirhimw, you cm1 m4'et AU 
ofyour Premium Sunglnss nml Performance Sport Eyewenr needs ~iA'b,u with coTijidenre! ~ ·~, Durla1g the e11tlrt.• m•••••h ttl May, •••~ ~ 
_INDIANA t~Yt~ INSTITUTt~ Is l..,sthtJ{tlu.• premier Dt~SIGNt~ll~ t'ASIIION & 
SJ•OilT SUNGLASSt~S t~XTilA VAGANZA.
1!1 b-··· 
~~~ GU.CCI

r-----ao-%~-----1 -­

·'.· 

1 I
I on each pair ofprescription or I 
I · · ,_ I
1 rwn-prescnptlon sungut.~ses. 1 
I j J I 

L----------------------~ 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
1970s he served as a member from a wage increase would be of the Committee on University minimal.
O'Meara Abdo Wage
Priorities, better known as However, some economists 
continued from page 1 
He was named the Howard J. Kenna Professor of Mathematics in 1976, assuming one of Notre Dame's first endowed faculty chairs. He will return to the Kenna Chair on stepping down as provost. 
For more than two decades, O'Meara has played a central role in the deliberations that have charted Notre Dam's aca­demic course. In the early 
S01oking 
continued from page 1 
larger percent of students vot­ing, with a total of 428 students voting in the dining hall throughout the day. The fresh­man class had the highest per­cent of turnout for the vote. 
Now that student opinion is known to favor banning smok­ing in the dining hall, the long process of taking action on the issue will begin to take place. 
"The dining hall is concerned with what the students want and providing the best possible atmosphere and service to the students," Residence hall Asso­ciation Dining Hall Representa­tive Karen Murphy stated. 
COUP. Ten years later, as chair of the Priorities and Commit­ments for Excellence, of PACE, he led a reexamination of the University's educational mis­sion that became the blueprint for Notre Dame's academic as­cendance during the 1980s. Most recently, O'Meara chaired the committee on academic life of the Colloquy for the Year 2000, which established Notre Dam's objectives for the re­mainder of this century. 
Last night, Saint Mary's Board of Governance met to discuss the results of the vote. They then voted to pass on their findings to the Committee for Student Affairs headed by Linda Timm. After being dis­cussed by the Committee for Student Affairs, a vote will be taken at their meeting on Fri­day. 
Board of Governance Presi­dent, Jen Turbiak stated, "As a representative of the student body, we support the results of the survey and will send the results into the hierarchy of the administration." 
Turbiak added, "We respect and admire the initiative the students took in conducting the vote and the progress which they have made so far." 
cated a $1 increase. But the 
GOP leadership opposes it as a 
job-killer. continued from page 1 Women like Metcalf, the 
middle-class daughter of an 
workers who would get a Army warrant officer, are an 
raise under President Clin­important part of the portrait 
ton's proposal to increase the of minimum wage workers 
minimum wage. drawn from the government's 
Clinton favors raising the Current Population Survey, as minimum wage by 90 cents an analyzed by both liberal and hour over two years. For full­conservative think tanks. time workers earning the min­Some are single mothers, imum of $4.25, that's an extra but more are wives sup­$900 the first year, and $900 plementing a husband's in­more the next. come, young women working 
The issue gained momentum their way through school, or recently when a group of mothers who prefer part-timemoderate Republicans advo-jobs. 
WoiDen 
~-·· 
continued from page 1 

this that we had to turn stu­d.ents away," he said. "However, I feel that we have the best cast possible." 
Abdo and her family will at­tend the May 17 performance of the play. She will be flown from her Minnesota home into town on a specially equipped airplane made possible by funds raised by the senior class from previous projects. She will also be in attendance at the graduation ceremonies with the rest of her class. 
"The concept of the Notre Dame family has totally come to life," said Rathburn. 
The play itself is a perfor­mance of the classic Shake­speare comedy. According to stage manager Maria Thiene­man, "there will be no physi­cal set." Instead, a large screen will sit behind the actors and different images will be projected onto the s~reen as the scenes progress. 
Students from several of Rathburn's classes, make up a large portion of the produc­tion team. However, "it has been a very collaborative effort," according to Thieneman. 
Numerous campus organizations, including the Office of Student Affairs, the Art, Music, and English departments, the Center for Continuing Education, the Development Department, and several others con­tributed to this project. 
"We received support from so many areas," said Rathburn. 
There is no admission charge and tickets are avail­able at the LaFortune infor­mation desk. However, they are ·going quickly, according to Rathburn. Donations to benefit Abdo and her family can be made when picking up tickets. 
---~ 
r lhanks •o •he s•uden• body for be~ns 
sood cus•omers all year j BRUNO S ORIGINAL BRUN01S ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SOUTH 
261 0 Prairie Ave 
Spring Dine-in Special lO" Two Topping for $8.95 
• 
Reservations Welcome 

• 
Large Groups Welcome 


..____·_Ph_on_e=l_ss"""'P""'"-33-lo 
PIZZA NORTH 
I 19 Dixieway 
Spring Delivery Special l-14" Two Topping for $10.50 
173-3890 
continued from page 1 

into a corner by the public sup­port of the bill. 
"The bill will come to a vote, and it will be passed by both houses," said Arnold. "Most Republicans have problems undercutting the $5.15 goal set, because they are aware of the political damage they could suf­fer. It's a battle to see who will be the working man's friend. They can't afford to look bad." 
Some House Republicans have gone so far to maintain their image as to suggest an increase to $5.25, a higher increase than Clinton proposed. Others asked for a training wage for first­time workers. Under this plan, first-time workers could be paid any amount by employers, and then in their second job, they would have to be paid the min­imum wage. 
The ease at which many Re­publicans have caved in to the president's proposal throws even more attention on Dole's reluctance to bring a bill to the Senate floor. According to Arnold, "He's just trying to look tough during an election year, so he can say he had everyone's interests in hand." 
Thus, the Republicans look bad if the issue is only exam­ined politically. Yet, the eco­nomic side of the issue sheds a great deal of light onto the Democrats' motives. 
The Democrats argue that people who work every day are entitled to a living wage. Fur­ther, they believe corporations have failed workers at the bot­tom of the income scale, recent inflation has taken away worth from the value of $4.25 an hour, and job losses resulting say the Democrats fail to realize several facts. The current feder­al poverty level is anything below $15,150 a year for a fam­ily of four. Yet, an increase in the minimum wage to $5.15 would only raise a worker's yearly salary from $8,840 to $10,712, more than $4,000 below the poverty level. Thus, while giving workers more spending power, the increase will keep them in poverty. 
According to Jim Rakowski, associate professor of eco­nomics, few workers actually work at the minimum wage in the first place. 
"The equilibrium wage rate exceeds the proposed minimum wage as well. Thus, it is irrele­vant to raise the minimum wage by 90 cents when most jobs are already higher than it." 
However, Rakowski is also suspicious of the Republicans' motives. "A wage increase won't cause much inflation or unemployment since the pro­posed minimum wage is already bypassed by the market." 
Rakowski also questioned whether those working at the minimum wage are actually at the poverty level. "There are few traditional families of four left. It may be that those who work at the minimum wage are casual workers [like teens with summer jobs) whose income does not affect their family's height above the poverty level." 
Since the proposed minimum wage increase will have so little of an effect on the economy and on income levels, Clinton's in­tentions may seem much more political than he intended. The increase in the minimum wage, it turns out, may be more sym­bolic than anything. 

Gerry, My Guardian Angel, thanks for everything. I'll Never forget you. God Bless, -Heather 
NOTRE DAME HABITAT FOR HUMANITY 
WOlAD LIKE TO SAY 
THANK YOU!! 
Thanks to everyone who helped make the 1995-96 ND Habitat House a reality .... 
Here is just an overview of what we accomplished this year: 
• 
Built an ND Habitat home for a mother and her two children at 904 Sorin Avenue 

• 
Raised $45,000 in cash and in-kind donations 


Whether you spent one morning or every waking hour on site, Whether you built when it was 6° or 60°, Whether you donated $1 or $100, 
You helped make this project a success! 
..•. ,... ]ti(it.iClt.ilitili~rl~rl~r
_________.._ 
Wt:dnesday, May 1, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Special to The Observer 
In what is believed to be a first, University of Notre Dame scholars received two of the three major awards at the annual conferencl-l last month of the American Society for 18th-Century Studies. 
Julia Douthwaite. assodl\te professor of French, is the recipient of tho James L. Clil'ford award. presented annually to the author of the best article regarding an aspect of the 18th century. Douthwaite's article, titled "Hewriting the Savage: The Extraordinnry Fictions of the 'Wild Girl of Champange,"' was published in the Winter 1994-95 issue or "Eighteenth­Century Studies." The award carries 11. $500 prize. 
T. Christopher Bond, a Notre Dame graduate student in English, received top hon­ors In the Graduate Student Paper Competition. Bond won a $200 prize for a paper titled 
"Establishing a Genre: The 
-Science Essay In Hans Sloane's 'Philosophical Transactions.'" The America Society for 18th-Century Studies is a non­profit educational group founded to promote the study of all aspects of the 18th cen­tury. It sponsors conferences, awards, fellowships and prizes and publishes "Eighteenth-Century Studies" and Studies in Eighteenth Century Culture." 
The Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps at the Univer­sity of Notre Dame has received the 1996 MacArthur Award as tho top Army ROTC unit in the nation. 
Tho award is presented an­nually to outstanding battal­ions for "exemplary perfor­mance in production and training." Notre Dame ranked first out of 120 units in the largA category. 
About 170 students current· ly are attending Notre Dame on Army ROTC scholarships. 
Jorge "Michael" Diaz, a Uni· versity of Notre Dame senior from Seattle, has won a 1996 Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship in Humanistic Studies from the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation. 
The Mellon Fellowships are awarded to college seniors and recent graduates of out­standing promise, with the objective of encouraging and assisting them to join the humanities faculties of American colleges and univer­sities. 
More than 1.400 humanities fellowships have been award­ed in the 14 years of the pro· gram. 
Diaz, who graduated in De­comber, majored in philoso· phy and the Program of Liberal Studies, His Mellon Fellowship will provide a $13,500 stipend plus tuition and fees, which Diaz will use for his graduate studies in philosophy at Princeton. 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $150 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and ~arin~ faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the Umvers1ty of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. 
* HOLY

You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also CROSS getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College , today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for the COLLEGE 
1996 Fall Semester, are now being accepted.  Office of Admissions  
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556  
Session 1-May 20 to June 27  (219)239-8400, ext. 22 • Fax (219)233-7427  
Session II -July I to August 9  e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com  

Observer Staff Repon 
Tho regional chapter of tho National Tuberous Sclerosis Association is looking for stu­dent volunteers to help people afflicted with tuberous sclerosis, a genetic disease with neu­rological effects. 
Leann Arndt, Indiana coordi­nator for the association, said that students can help in a va­riety of capacities. 
• 
Coordinators are needed to organize and run family support groups for the local South Bond area, with meetings at least twice per year. 

• 
Students majoring in nurs­ing can apply to provide trained child care during support group meetings. NTSA will also aid those interesting in studying tuberous sclerosis. 

• 
Law students and account­ing majors are needed when the regional chapter becomes a not­for-profit organization, a goal it is presently working toward. 

• 
The chapter is seeking the­ater students to produce a one­act play to perform as a fundraiser. 


• Film students are needed to create a video public service announcement or informational spot. 
• 
Students interested in media relations can work on in­creasing public understanding of tuberous sclerosis and con­tact local television stations about airing public service an­nouncements already devel­oped by NTSA. 

• 
Computer students can pro­vide technical support when the regional chapter eventually acquires a donated computer system. 

• 
Students are also needed to attend the fundraising events. 


Volunteers are needed at all times of the year and can apply by calling Arndt at 255-2239. 
A cure for tuberous sclerosis -which can cause seizures, delayed speech, and slow motor development -has yet to be found. 
People with tuberous sclerosis may live normal and productive lives, but their limitations require additional help from volunteers, said Arndt. 
NTSA was founded in 1974, and has its national headquar­ters in Landover, Md. 

Laetare winner Prejean featured in new video 
Special to The Observer nine about violence produced by the Mennonite Board of Mis­
Sister Helen Prejean, winner sions Media Ministries, focuses of the University's 1996 Laetare on how the families of murder Medal. is featured in a new victims have deall with their video "Beyond the News: loss and how their experience Murder Close Up." has shaped their opinions on the 
Prejean, the New Orleans nun death penalty. who was portrayed in the fea­ture film "Dead Man Walking" The Laetaro Medal is given by Susan Sarandon in an Oscar­annually by Notre Dame to a winning performance, talks Catholic "whose genius has en­about her work with death-row nobled the arts and sdences, il­inmates and the families of their lustrated the ideals of the murder victims. Church and enriched the her­
The video, one in a series of itage of humanity." 
CLASSES ARE OVER! celebrate toni~ht at 
'Ihe Open Mike JVlght Coffeehouse 
where you can DRINK (coHee) FOR FREE & go home with great new stories (&poems) to tell 
Jea.turt/;9' th&jJronittnt-~~tM& 6btdread/;~s [!/: 
-~
.._ 

{ '-..~ ~ .. ~ 
··... 
rr 

ll:; ~~~· \ d
In the tonight
rlathan young tr.:Joiill f"r''r.ht,1 '"''(\ ~ kr.:Vlrt m. ~lynnJr.:nny !lol'l~ ,:LaFun Ballroom ryan fr1edman tHfl he~an o-9·11 pm
davc qnff1th rne!t".a rkro-Ja tb rnc:l·~~.a h.arf"ak.a andy wc-.t $1
0 chr<'!l.':la "ar'ey bl"yce yJ:., lb"r JOt-n h.t~1q"-?""ef'ldaro JO"~ 
fra.., ,.....alorv:y ~a., l..i:J'.a"'¥!'1 ":J. o; bR~.. ll:..iil'il ")f).ik 
free dessert'!! sponsored b SUB 
Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering Majors 
SOPHOMORES TO BE 
Consider the Aerospace and Mechanical Fifth Semester in London Program. 
An Information Session will be held early in the Fall Semester and Applications will be due before Fall Break. 
For further information contact the Department Office 365 Fitzpatrick Hall 1-5433 
If you 
see news happening, 
call 
The Observer at 1-4543 

Tuberous sclerosis chapter seeks help 

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
Coming Soon to a Pillow Near You••• 

In 1993, Notre Dame funded a 5.3 million dollar project to connect the residence halls to the campus network. The original plan was to provide a network connection per room. In April1996, the University increased the budget by 34o/o. Now Notre Dame students will have a network connec­tion per pillow. 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) has been working over­time to integrate 27 undergraduate residence halls, and Fischer and O'Hara-Grace graduate residences into the campus network. In addition to a network connection, the University will provide free network drivers and software for the Web, e-mail, file transfer, Usenet news and terminal emu­lation. 
The OIT will bring the halls online as they are completed 
rather than wait a year until all halls are networked. In 
August of 1996, 13 halls will be activated and the rest will 
be brought online gradually. All halls will be finished by 
November 1997. The schedule was set by a number of fac­
tors, including physically wiring the residence halls and 
coordinating the schedule with other construction projects 
on campus. 
ust think, before long, you won't have to see that short frustrating message "Busy ... " because waiting for a modem 
Get the real story. Shortly after students get home in May, they 
will receive the Byteline, a publication of the OIT. Faculty and staff will 
receive the Byteline at their campus addresses. Look for it to find out more 
about ResNet, including what computers are recommended to run on the 
network, the activation schedule, examples of how the network is used in 
Notre Dame courses, and support plans to help students 
get online. 
/ti~') e: (f. 
' / I , / .. ·---..........---· ........, ......--' 
•••University of Notre Dameo• Office of Information Technologies o• Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 


Wednesday, May I, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• LIBERIA 
Firefight near embassy Marines kill three in fighting 

Directed by Paul Rathburn, ND Department o/ English Artistic Design: Paul Down, ND Department o/Art Design
Washington Hall 
Music: Lakeya Cook, ND Department o/Music May 15 at Noon Stage Manager: Maria Jhieneman May 16 at Noon May 17 at 11:30 a.m. 
No Admission Charge! Pick up tickets at La Fortune Info. Desk: 
Friends, Parents, Seniors,All Welcome! 
very fast! 

spurs defensive action Fierce battles Monrovia 
112mile
e::s
By JOHN DIAMOND ternoon in Monrovia, the shatter US.­
1/2 km 
As>.ociated Press Liberian capital, warring fac­tions fired at or near the WASIIINGTON Marines guarding the wa­brokered truce The Marines who killed at terfront embassy compound, By NYENATI ALLISON least three Liberian faction which includes both the ambas­
Associated Press 
mmnbms in an exchange of fire sador's residence and the Tuesday were not there to look embassy office building. MONROVIA for a fight. The trouble began when 
U.S. Marine guards shot and Despite calls from some embassy staffers and guards killed three Liberians firing
Africa advocates for a more heard an intense firelight in the toward the U.S. embassyactive U.S. military mission, the vicinity of the embassy between Tuesday as fierce battles 276 U.S. Marines are under warlord Charles Taylor and 
engulfed the capital, littering its 
Amusement park 
orders to stay put on the Ecomog, a West African peace­
streets with bodies a day after a embassy compound and return keeping organization. The cease-fire collapsed. Barclay Training 
Center
lim only when they can see who Marines held their lire in the The shootings, the first 
is shooting. first incident. But in three sub­exchange of gunfire involving Executive mansion ----=1', Capitol
"If you are being fired upon sequent shootings, each about U.S. troops since Liberia's civil 
City hall 
and you ean see who is firing at an hour apart, the guard posts war reignited in early April, you, you return lire," said Army on the southeast side of the came as new factional fighting 
1 mile

Maj. Naney Burt, a Pentagon embassy. near the residence, left the 10-day-old, U.S.-bro­~ spokeswoman familiar with the carne under fire. kered truce in tatters. 1km rules of 1mgagmnent being used In two of those incidents, One U.S. Marine was grazed
by thn Marines. Marines fired back with M-16 -possibly by a cartridge from In four separate incidents automatic rifles and M-60 his own weapon -but required beginning late Tuesday af-machine guns. no medical attention, said two 

senior defense officials in Washington, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity. 
At an army IJarracks a few blocks from the embassy, the floor of a clinic was awash in blood as scores of victims were carried in or dragged them­selves through the door. Doctors said at least three people had died and 60 were wounded, APM'm.J.Castello many civilians. 
Moose, in a telephone in­
Fire from mortars, machine came in and-it was returned,"
terview from the embassy,
guns and rocket-propelled Bacon said. The attackers' iden­
warned of a "major catas­
grenades echoed through ·the tities were not known. 
trophe" if the fighting con­
city, forcing George Moose, the The Marines are part of a 
tinued.
U.S. assistant secretary of state group of 270 -from an ofi<>hore
He blamed warlord-turned­
for African affairs, to cancel force of almost 3,000 -who are 
politician Charles Taylor, whose
talks at the embassy with gov­protecting the embassy, where 
standoff with a rival April 6 pro­
ernment, peacekeepers and fac­staff has been reduced to 18 
voked two weeks of warfare
tional leaders. people. 
culminating in the cease-fire. 
"Taylor will be held re­sponsible," Moose said. "If he persists in taking power, he should expect a strong interna­tional reaction." 
In Monrovia's Mamba Point diplomatic section, where the embassy is located, rival factions battled for control through the afternoon. At least nine bodies were scattered on the streets of the beachfront neighborhood. It was unclear whether those killed died while fighting or were caught in crossfire. 
Similar chaos spread across the capital. Chawki Bsaibes, a Lebanese businessman who runs the Mamba Point Hotel, said Tuesday's fighting was the worst he had seen in the city. 
In separate incidents at the ... embassy, three Liberians were killed and one wounded by U.S. Marine gunfire, defense officials in Washington said. The most serious exchange took place at a guard post near U.S. Ambassador William Milam's residence, Pentagon spokesman Kevin Bacon said. 
In all, the Marines counted four separate shooting incidents beginning in late afternoon. In two cases, the Marines could see their attackers and returned fire using M-16 automatic rifles and M-60 machine guns. 
"We don't know what (the attackers) were aiming at. Fire 

page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, May I, 1996 
• AUSTRAliA • SOUTH AFRICA 
Massacre survivors relive shooting Strikers fail 
By GEOFF SPENCER 
Associated Press 
HOBART 
When the shooting stopped, Dennis Olson crawled through the chaos and ran outside. His terrified wife, Mary, still lay on the floor inside the cafeteria. What had happened started to sink in. 
"I looked inside the restau­rant and saw bodies lying all over. My wife saw much more," Olson said. "She doesn't want to talk about it." 
So Olson, a delivery driver from Vancouver, Wash., tells about how a 28-year-old man identified by police as Martin Bryant slaughtered 20 people with a high-powered rifle in the cafeteria at Port Arthur colonial prison 30 miles south of Hobart. 
He tells about how he and his wife crouched on a cafeteria floor, listening to the muttering gunman pick off victims one at a time -each with ·a shot to the head. 
"It was really quiet because people had the feeling that if you say anything you would draw his attention and he'd shoot," Olson recalled Tuesday. "There were no heroes in' there. There were people cowering, hoping they wouldn't be his next target." 
Mrs. Olson, who hid behind the low partition throughout the shooting rampage, was unharmed but shaken. She searched among the dead and injured -35 people from age 3 to 72 died at the gunman's hands ..:..._ before reuniting with her husband in a tearful, joyous hug. 
After leaving the cafeteria, 
the assailant walked outside 
and shot 12 people dead before 
holing' up in a nearby inn and 
eventually setting fire to it, 
killing three more. 

Police arrested him after his 
clothes caught fire. He was 
charged with murder Tuesday 
at the hospital where he is 
being treated for burns. 
Olson, 54, and Mrs. Olson, 49, · who manages a greeting card 
store, were in line to buy sand­
wiches in the cafeteria when a 
loud bang echoed through the 
room. 

"I thought something like a 
pressure cooker had exploded," 
Olson said. "It took a little 
while for everyone to realize 
that what was going (on) was 
death." 

The couple dropped behind a 
small barrier that separated 
the cafeteria line from the din­
ing area. "My wife laid flat on 
her stomach. I couldn't just lay 
down. I felt I had to get up to 
survive." 

In the dining area, victims 
were shot as they ate: "He shot 
at the head, one time deliber­
ately at each victim. He wasn't 
spraying the room with bu,llets; 
he was picking out individuals 
and shooting them." 

When Olson looked over the 
partition, he was hit by small 
pieces of flying debris as bullets 
ricocheted around the room. 
Olson suffered minor shrapnel 
wounds to his face and chest. 
"I was bleeding all over 
myself," Olson said. "I crawled 
up to the end of the wall where 
another man was under a small 
table." 

The two waited until the 
shooting stopped. The other 
Australian The gunman drives to a bed and breakfast where hemassacre 
barricades himself with the Inn's owners and the
OGunman opens fire inside kidnapped man.
Broad Arrow Cafe. The next morning the gunman runs out, his clothes on fire,
f) Gunman leaves the cafe and is captured by police.firing at those running away and at a bus, killing 
the driver. 
Tasman Peninsula 
8 Gunman shoots mother and two children on route to toll gate. 
0 The gunman kills four men in a BMW and steals the car. 
75 miles 
~ 
75km 

L_______________c_ ~~----···-------------_1 
AP/Carl Fox 
man said: "He's gone." killed because he had seen 
"At that moment the gunman me." backed up and saw him under About 30 seconds later, Olson the table and shot him in the ran out a back door as the gun­head.... It actually exploded his man walked out the front to head." continue his killing spree. Olson 
Olson crawled back behind heard the shots as Bryant the partition. "I thought that at opened fire on hikers, cars and any moment I was going to be buses. 
to generate support 
By DONNA BRYSON 
Associated Press 

JOHANNESBURG 
Striking workers snarled traffic in city centers and roughed up a political leader today in hopes of forcing last­minute negotiations on a new constitution. 
But the one-day strike by the country's largest trade federa­tion failed to generate much support nationwide as shops, banks and mines operated as normal. 
The failure of the work stop­page by the Congress of South African Trade Unions showed that ordinary workers were tiring of constant strike threats and labor protests that cost them paychecks for taking part. 
Previous strikes often di­vided along racial lines, with black workers heeding union calls to protest while white unions would oppose the strikes. 
This time, some black unions refused to take part in the strike even though they endorsed the union stance. 
The unions' main complaint is a proposed provision allow­ing employers to lock workers out during.labor disputes. 
Agreement on a final consti­tution was being held up by the lockout clause and other issues. 
Impending finals got you stressed out? 
come to it~s free and it reall_y works! 
Stress-free activities include: 
-finger painting -twister -to_)lS & games ·eating lots o~food -r~ other fun stuff! 
br·ou.q h t to nn1 '" !oil B 

~p•ge 10 --. --~ ----~ -----T-he_O_b-se_M_r-.-N-ATJONAL NEW_S__ ------------Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
f ..:........:::.P_r_o-se_c_u_t~o-rs-tr-y-to~p::.:__c_:_::_lu_____::___:_g=--==--=--=--=-1e-=-==a:.._::_:_::k:::.__:_:___s::c_i_n_b_o_m_b_i_n_g_____:t_ri__:____.a-1 
By SANDY SHORE 
Associated Press 
DENVER 
Prosecutors today accused defense attorneys in the Oklahoma City bombing case of leaking prejudicial information to the news media and asked the judge to bar future disclo­sures. 
The latest incident arose over disclosure of calling card records that indicate suspects Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols spoke by telephone on April 16, 1995 -three days before the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building, killing 168 people and injuring 500 others. 
Nichols' ex-wife, Lana Padilla, earlier had said Nichols 
Elkhart firm faces safety fines 
Associated Press 
ELKHART 
An almond company here faces fines of $12,7 50 for vio­lating state safety standards. 
An inspection report shows Chicago Almond Inc. violated nine serious state Occupl\tional Safety and Health Administration rules. 
The violations are suspected to be the cause in the death of a worker there three months ago. 
Ernesto Paz Jr., 30, died after he was pulled into a hop­per when his arm was caught in an electrical cord. 
The cord had become tan­gled with a rotating auger. 
State OSHA officials said the company failed to adequately protect the facility from a harmful situation. 
Chicago Almond has 15 working days to file a petition for review or an official chal­lenge of the safety order. 
If the company decides not to challenge the report, it will be responsible for paying the fines. 
Chicago Almond, which employs about 45 workers, makes almond paste and nut crunches. 
Please recycle The Observer 
reluctantly went to Oklahoma City to pick up McVeigh and bring him back to Kansas on Easter Sunday, April16. 
The calling card records, which prosecutors said were revealed a couple of weeks ago by an Oklahoma City television station, would corroborate her statement and link the suspects just three days before the bombing. Their lawyers are seeking separate trials; a hear­ing on that issue is scheduled in August. 
The leak was raised in a prosecution brief made public this morning as prosecution and defense attorneys met pri­vately with U.S. District Judge Richard Matsch. The meeting's purpose was to discuss pro­posed jury instructions that will define what the prosecution will need to prove to obtain a guilty verdict. 
Lawyers entered the Federal Courthouse without comment­ing this morning. 
On Wednesday, Matsch will hear a defense motion in open court challenging the constitu­tionality of the 1994 federal death penalty law. 
The defense also has ques­tioned Attorney General Janet Reno's decision to pursue the death penalty even before arrests were made. 
Nichols' attorneys last week accused the prosecution of leaking the calling card records. In their brief, however, prosecutors denied the allega­tion and pointed to defense attorneys as the ones responsi­ble. 
"This conforms to a pre-exist­ing pattern, whereby after dis­covery materials are produced to the defense, selected por­tions of these materials become the subject of broadcast or print news stories," Special 
U.S. Attorney Joseph Hartzler said in the brief made public today. 
Hartzler said his office has formed a team of "leak investi­gators." Every prosecutor who had access to discovery materi­als swore under penalty of per­jury the material was not made public, he said. 
"The recent spate of leaks have all been of information that was turned over to the defense teams in the last four months," he said. "The govern­ment, in contrast, has been in possession of this evidence for much longer." 
On Monday, Matsch issued a written reminder to prosecu­tors that they promised to give the Oklahoma City bombing defendants any information that might help their case, including reports on foreign terrorists. 
But he stopped short of for­mally ordering the government to turn over such information, saying prosecutors were fulfill­ing their obligations. 
McVeigh and Nichols' lawyers had filed a series of discovery motions seeking information to support a theory that the bomb­ing was the work of interna­tional terrorists, white supremacists or other groups. 

E·U H 0 P E 
LONDON  S27S  
PARIS  $30S  
AMSTERDAM  $305  
FRANHFURT  $305  
MADRID  $375  

fares are ffam lllllianapoNs. each waq based on aRl /llifdlaSI!. fares do nol inrlude federal taxes and passenger fariliNes rharge~ whirh ran total between $19.95 and $31.95. depending on 111e desNnatilln. nor do 111eq inrlude departure rharges paid direr"q to to fure~n gov­ernments. whirh ran total between $3.00 and SGO.OO.Int 1Student 10 maq be required. Fares are subjert to rhange. Restrirhons applq Yalid for departures until 31 Haq t99G 
EuropaSStrom$210 
[ii.iihNIITravel 
~ 
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 
On the Web: bftp://www.ciee.org/ds/dshome.btm 
1-800-2-COUNCIL 
[1-800-22G-BG24] 

...------~-~----~----~­
Wednesday, May I, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page ·11 

-~---~
~-· 

page 12 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, May 1, 1996 



The Alliance for Catholic Education proudly welcomes with great joy and gratitude the following Notre Dame graduates to their new classrooms in the Catholic Schools ofthe South. 
Name  School  D~iocese  Grade/  
School  
Dominic Amorosa  St. John's  Shreveport, LA  5th Grade  
Norma Aros  Oscar Romero Middle School  Corpus Christi, TX  6-8 Math  
Bridget Barry  Holy Rosary  Shreveport, LA  4th Grade  
Kathy Bergen  Redemptorist High School  Baton Rouge, LA  9-12 Math  
Thomas Bradshaw  St. Jude High School  Mobile, AL (Montgomery)  9-12 Math/Science  
Shannon Brennan  Holy Trinity Middle School  Charlotte, NC  7th-8th Math/Science  
Amanda Briggs  Bishop Kenny High School  Sl Augustine, FL (Jacksonville)  9-12 Religion  
Travis Brown  Mt. de Sales Academy  Savannah, GA (Macon)  9-12 Math/Science  
Honora Buckley  Bichop Sullivan High School  Baton Rouge, LA  9-12 English  
Ryan Clark  Our Lady Queen of Mercy  Mobile, AL (Montgomery)  K-8 Art &Music  
Kelly Cox  All Sainfs  CharloHe,NC  4th-5th  
Molly Davis  Holy Family  Tulsa, OK  1-8 Religion  
Erica Engelland  Christ the King  Shreveport, LA  2nd Grade  
Mark Farrell  Holy Family High School  Birmingham, AL  9-12 Religion/Spanish  
Clara Finneran  Loyola College Prep  Shreveport, LA  9-12 SpanisiV'Religion  
Joy Fitzgerald  St. Philomena  Baton Rouge, LA (Wh~e CasUe)  Kindergarden  
Alison Fogarty  Montgomery Catholic High  Mobile, AL (Montgomery)  9-12 Religion/Algebra  
Erik Goldschmidt  Pensacola Catholic High  Pensacola-Tallahassee, FL  9-12 English  
Theo Helm  Little Flower  Mobile, AL  6-8 Language Arts  
Shannon Hogan  St. Anthony Elementary  Corpus Christi, TX  Computers  
Michael Johnson  Holy Family  Mobile, AL  6-8 Math/Science  
Kimberly Kippels  St. Joseph  Birmingham, AL  Kindergarden  
Colleen Knight  All Saints Catholic School  Fort Worth, TX  6-8 Social Studies/Religion  
Kevin Langell  Sts. Peter &Paul  Tulsa, OK  6-8 Math/Science  
Christopher Lary  St. Philomena  Baton Rouge, LA (Wh~ CasUe)  5·8 English  
Todd Leahy  Holy Trinity MS  Charlotte, NC  Computers/Art/Religion  
Kaylee Lentino  St Paul's Catholic School  Sl Augustine, FL (Jacksonville)  Music  
Jonathan McGhee  St. Philip Neri  Oklahoma City, OK  6-8 Math/Science  
Collette McKenna  St. Peter Claver  Savannah, GA (Macon)  4th grade  
Joy Michnowicz  Holy Family Elementary  Birmingham, AL  K-8 Computer Teacher  
Isabelle Mitura  St. George  Fort Worth, TX  1st Grade  
Rick Munzinger  St. Peter the Apostle Catholic  Fort Worth, TX  2nd Grade  
Sheila Navagh  Holy Family  Tulsa, OK  1st Grade  
Elixabeth Nessner  St. Thomas  Biloxi, MS  5th Grade  
Cort Peters  Immaculate Heart School  Lake Charles, LA  5th Grade  
David Pfeuffer  St. John High School  Biloxi, MS  9-12 Gen. Science/Math  



... 
-~-------~-----~­
-~---­
Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 13 
Whitewater probe heats up 
By PETE YOST and BILL SIMMONS Ao.sociated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

A law firm document obtained by Whitewater prosecutors poses new questions about Hillary Hodham Clinton's sworn account of her legal work a deeade ago for savings and loan owner James Me Dougal. 
The docu­
ment, turned over by the Mrs. Clinton Hose Law Firm in Arkansas, shows Mc­Dougal paid off $5,000 of a $5,894 bill in November 1984, according to two lawyers famil­iar with the mattl~r and speak­ing on condition of anonymity. That date was five months before Mrs. Clinton says she met with him to press him to pay money lw owed to her firm, ' 
In an interview last week, McDougal cast doubt on 
whether the old bill came up in his meeting with Mrs. Clinton: 
"For your story, say that when asked, 'Do you recall the conver­sation in Mrs. Clinton's answer,' McDougal answered 'No."' The unpaid bill has been a central point of Mrs. Clinton's account of her legal work for McDougal's failing S&L. 
The first lady has minimized her role, telling federal regula­tors a year ago in sworn written answers that she met with McDougal on April 23, 1985, solely to get him to pay the over­due bill and to arrange a pre­payment plan for new work. 
She referred to the unpaid bill three times in her three-para­graph answer, saying she told McDougal her firm could not proceed with the new work until "the previous bill was paid" and that he "informed me he would arrange to pay the past due bill." 
The document, called a fee credit report, was turned over to prosecutors last year. It leaves open the possibility that a por­tion of the bill was still unpaid 
Free Pregnancy Test Referrals to Support Agencies Confidential Counseling 
SOUTH BEND • EAST 
lronwood.Circle 20041ronwood Circle, Suite I 273-8986 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 417 N. St. !.0uis Blvd. Call 234u0363 
(24 hours) 


Did you know? 
. . . 30% of Notre Dame seniors go on for further education ...8% of all Notre Dame grads do full-time volunteer work in the year after graduation 
...Only three out of four who intend to begin a career right after graduation actively look for a job before graduation, but half the people not looking get job offers anyway 
...78% of those who look for jobs have one by May ... Nearly two in five seniors going into employment get two or more offers 
How do we know all that? 
From the 1995 
Future Plans Survey 
Just to let you know, graduates this year will be surveyed as well. It's quick, it's painless, and it helps a lot. When you pick up your commencement tickets, please allow about five minutes to complete a very short survey to let us know what your plans are! 
Congratulations! from the Office of Institutional Research 
when Mrs. Clinton and Mc­Dougal met. 
But investigators now question whether such an amount -less than $900 in copying and mis­cellaneous costs -would have come up at the meeting, and whether the two actually dis­cussed nothing but what Mrs. Clinton has described, according to a lawyer close to the probe. 
The White House says it did not learn of the document until recently and Mrs. Clinton stands by her answer. 
"The first lady's sworn state­ment has accurately set forth her beliefs at the time," her lawyer David Kendall said. 
White House spokesman Mark Fabiani added, "Based on the fragmentary records still avail­able from the mid-'80s, it appears that at least a portion of the bill was still unpaid when Mrs. Clinton met with Mr. McDougal in mid-1985." 
Fabiani said Mrs. Clinton's partners were concerned about McDougal's tardy payment his­tory and she successfully arranged a prepayment plan for the new work. 
The first lady's account has come under increasing attack since records of her legal billings -which prosecutors had sought for two years and which the White House said were lost -suddenly were dis­covered by an aide in plain view in the White House living quar­ters. 
Changing of the Guard 

\ " '· 
Katie Kroener 

Mark Corriere prepares to hand over command of the Notre Dame Naval ROTC to Pete Titterton at a ceremony yesterday. 
Happy 
21sT Mike! 

COMPUTER LIQUIDATION 
2 Days only !!! 
Complete Multi-Media Systems!!! 
486 DX2/66 486 DX2/66 4/420 8/420 $998 $1098 
PENTIUM 60 PENTIUM 90 TOWER 8/540 8/720 $1,198 $1,448 
4 meg RAM upgrades $79 FREE INSTALLATION witll system purchase 
Packard Bell systems come with 1 yr warranty, SVGA Monitor, CD-ROM, Fax/Modem, Integrated Stereo Speakers, Keyboard, Mouse, Dos, Windows and over $800 worth of software, includ­ing Home/Office applications, Educational, Entertainment, Internet Access and more! 
IBM 386SX INK JET PRINTERS W/MONITOR B/W $189.00 $399.00 COLOR $249.00 
Saturday, May 4th, from 10:00 until 10:00 and Sunday, May Sth, from 11:00 until 6:00 Joyce Athletic Center at the SUPER SALE!!! 
Violence mars Indian elections 
By RANJAN ROY Associated Press 
NEW DELIII 
At least six people were killed in political violence as candidates wrapped up cam­paigning Tunsday for more vot­ing in India's month-long par­liamentary elections. 
Fearing further violence, India's Election Commission issued shoot-on-sight orders for anyone caught trying to rig the vote in the northern state or Bihar, where voting is to be held Thursday and May 7 . 
The order applies to 18 of 54 constituencies where police expect trouble from the private militias formed to support political parties in Bihar, where clashes between high­caste Hindus and the lower castes are common. 
The latest deaths mean 44 people have been killed in India since campaigning began a month ago for the staggered elections for federal parlia­ment. The vote, to be staggered over six days, ends May 30. 
The elections are widely expected to yield a coalition government and opinion polls say no party will obtain a majority in the 545-member lower house of Parliament. 
Two people were killed Tuesday in a fight between rival activists wielding axes, machetes and sickles in a vil­lage in the southern state of Andhra Pradesh. 
In another incident in the same state, two workers of the governing Congress Party were shot and killed Monday during an attack by supporters or a rival political group, United News of India reported. Another person died Monday when explosives he was carry­ing blew up, the news agency said. 


---·-------...-------·--------·--·-~-~----------... 
page 14 The Observer • MIDEAST NEWS Wednesday, May I , 1996 
.lEBANON 
Mourners bury missile victims 
Clinton offers Israel anti-terrorisnt aid 

Surprise your folks. 
When you stay awake in class, you tend to learn more. (Unless you have an uncanny talent of learning through osmosis.) So don't let fatigue get in the way of your A, Revive with Vivarin®. One tablet has the same amount of caffeine as about two cups of coffee. 
And it's just as safe. Hey, anything is possible, if you're up for it. 
~Smrt#tKI1,.. a..cQm 01995 ~Consumer Heslthcare 

Revive with Vivarin~ 
Use only as directed. 

ByGREGMYRE 
Associated Press 
QANA 

With chants of grief filling the air, ()() wooden coffins were passed hand-over-hand above a frenzied crowd of mourners Tuesday at the mass burial of refugees who died in an Israeli missile attack on a U.N. base. 
The procession began with a mass funeral in the coastal city of Tyre, evoking a solidarity sel­dom seen among Lebanon's Muslims and Christians. Israel's 16-day offensive against the Shiite Muslim guerrillas of Hezbollah unified a country long tormented by its religious and political diversity. 
While Qana wept for the men, women and children killed in the April 18 bombardment, Israeli forces and Lebanese guerrillas had their first serious exchange of lire since a cease­lire took effect Saturday. There was no immediate word on casualties. 
In Tyre. eight miles west of Qana, the funeral procession was led by turbaned Muslim clergymen and black-robed Christian bishops, golden cruci­fixes glittering on their chests in a display of unanimity not seen since a February 1994 bombing of a Catholic church north of Beirut killed 10. 
Sheik Mohammed Shamseddine, Lebanon's top Shiite cleric, told mourners: "The Jews have committed a holocaust in Lebanon." 
Prime Ministflf Halik Hariri, a Sunni Muslim. stood next to Shamseddine. 
Nearby stood Catholic bish­ops who represent 45 percent of Lebanon's 4 million people. Muslims make up the remain­der of Lebanon's religious mosaic. 
The mass killing of the vii-lagers provoked unprecedented anger from Lebanon's Christians, once believed to be relatively sympathetic to Israel. It also fueled an international uproar. 
In Qana, thousands of mourn­ers jammed a vacant lot and climbed buildings overlooking the mass grave next to the U.N. base where Lebanese civilians had thought they were safe from the lighting between Israel and the Hezbollah guerrillas. 
In an outpouring of raw emo­tion, young men beat their chests with clenched lists in a traditional Shiite expression of grief. Women wailed and shrieked hysterically. and many fainted. 
Volunteers sprayed water from a hose in an effort to cool down the sweaty crowd, pressed body-to-body in the heat of the midday sun. 
In chants that grew pro­gressively louder, the crowd shouted Islam's battle cry "Allahu Akbar!" or "God is Great," drowning out the somber music from a Boy Scout brass band. 
the main street in Qana until they reached the jam-packed gravesite. They were then passed forward on the raised hands of the mourners. 
Hundreds of soldiers. civil defense workers and mourners took part in a chaotic effort to remove the wrapped bodies from the coffins and then lower them into the grave, side-by­side. 
The 60-by-60-foot mass grave is adjacent to the Fijian base of the U.N. peacekeeping force where the victims perished, many so blown to shreds that the exact death toll may never be known. 
"We feel total despair," said a tearful Alia Saad. "We'll never forget this terrible disaster." 
She and her family of nine survived the artillery attack, which Israel said was an attempt to hit Hezbollah guer­rillas who had fired rockets 300 yards away from the U.N. base. 
At graveside, a black poster read in Arabic: "In Qana Jesus Christ Performed His Miracles. In Qana Shimon Peres Staged 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents: 
·'t~r 
c5 tulte.nt ebn~e.rtb 
e(Jn~ert 
presented by 
The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
rv DANIEL STOWE. CONDUCTOR 
8:00p.m. Thursday, May 2, 1996 W ashin ton Hall 
By BARRY SCHWEID ASSQciared Press 

WASHINGTON President Clinton extended 
U.S. help to Israel in counter­ing terrorism d m o v e d toward a defense alliance "to meet com­mon threats in the years to come." 
Prime Minister Shimon Peres said the anti-terrorism accord strengthened Israel's hand in pursuing peace with Syria and Lebanon. The peace process would perish if terror­ists succeeded, he said; be­cause "terror would win the day." 
After the signing, Clinton and Peres had lunch, and an announcement emerged from it on their agreement to explore putting the two coun­tries' longtime military rela­tionship on a more formal basis. 

"U.S.-lsraeli strategic co­operation will grow in im­portance" in view of the prolif­eration of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East and other threats to regional peace, the White House said in a statement. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Israeli Foreign Minister Ehud Barak will head steering committees to carry out the agreement and also to deal with ways to make the $3 billion annual U.S. aid program to Israel more effec­tive. 
In their talk, Clinton and Peres took up Iran's nuclear program and ''the threat it poses to that region," said a senior U.S. official. 


Wednesday, May I, 1996 
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Dogs fail to find Colby's body 
FBI search for ex-spymaster resumes today 

By JOHN HENDREN Associated Press 
HOCK POINT, Md. 

Dogs trained to lind bodies in water were brought in Tuesday to help search for for­mnr Cl/\ director William Colby, presumed drowned in a canoeing accident three days earlier. 
Colby's swamped canoe was found Sunday on a sandbar about a quarter-mile from his vacation home in southern Maryland. 
The dogs. which detect the scnnt of human skin oils that rise to thn water's surface, at one point alerted divers to a 100-yard area of water in front of Colby's waterfront home. 
'colby's wife, Sally Shnlton­Colby, watched anxiously from the porch as divers moved toward the sitn where one dog harked repeatedly. 
Two hours of searching that 

'15km 
=-··-··w~-~i, 1 ~~~-~-:c~~~\ (1<i~"i ~-"' ~f!d 1 ~ ;:,-'\"' \.fkj 
lOmile ~..:, <11 ·&:.dt?l submerged bodies usually ~ i /:<>6" -~~'!), re~ain in one place, rescuers 10 km .-. ~~ \-o [( ¢ satd. 
l
r.M ARyL ,~N 0 en "14) By midafternoon, crews hadG ·· La Plata L.,. l~ ~ located only five empty, moss­
• ) c.~> r1FJ covered crab pots. ~ -~ ~~L,. 1~-\\h Another crew looked in near-J~Ji\ ~ \.....~<., .s-~"''! by woods. 
·---..::;/· 1~ ~ T~-" \\£1 Rescue boats dragged a 
~}),..y ( ~ weighted rope with hooks 18 VIRGINIA "'-'6~·-~-.A1 \ inches apart across the floor of-.nmtf!lrmJ.-~'\,~W,~ ! murky Neale Sound, a 
small!i= . . -:£c -9\..l. , waterway near where the 
W_tlham Colby ~ · I Wicomico and the Potomac 
m1ssmg \~ i ri~ers meet., . 
__....__.._______.._..____;:\,. -, You can t see outside the AP/Wm.J.Castello mask, that's how dark the 
area proved fruitless. 
The search wrapped up in the late afternoon, and was to resume Wednesday morning. 
Colby, 76, who headed the CIA from 1973 to 1976 under 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 1ST 
LAST DAY OF CLASS PARTY 
featuring: 
ELSIE'S PROMISE 

r-----------,I 
THURSDAY, MAY 9TH I 
I GOING HOME I 
I
PARTY I I
featuring: 

LADY MELO I I I
"D'' 

I I 
Clip coupon and save $2.00 with: this ad before 11:00 PM 5/9/96 
Presidents Nixon and Ford, was reported missing Sunday night by neighbors who real­ized he had not returned to Washington as usual. 
He had told his wife Saturday he planned to go canoeing. 
Searchers traced the route Colby often took in his canoe, but.the search_was concentrat­ed m a one-m1le area because 
water is," said Lt. Mark Sande-rs, an officer with the Maryland Department of Natural Resources. 
"It's a very vast area for divers to cover." 
r-----------,
I I 
THURSDAY, MAY 2ND 
THANK YOU PARTY 
featuring: 
GREEN LANTERN 
(LOWER LEVEL) 
WITH MARK AND JOE 
(UPPER LEVEL) 

Clip coupon and save $2.00 with I 
L~ ~ !e~r:_I~~ ~_5!;'J..6.J 
FRIDAY, MAY 
1oTH 
POST EXAM PARTY 
featuring: 
SCARECROW JUNKIES 

USAF reveals stealth plane prototype 
By ROBERT BURNS 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
The Air Force on Tuesday unveiled a unique "stealth'' airplane built more than a decade ago in California in the strictest of secrecy. Parts of its pioneering radar-evading design live on in today's B·2 stealth bomber. 
Meant to be a surveillance plane that could fly close to a battle front with minimal risk of being detected by radar, the plane was test flown 135 times from 1982-85 but then scrapped. It has been in secret storage ever since. 
The Air Force had never before acknowledged the exis­tence of the project, which was code-named Tacit Blue. The plane never flew real sur­veillance missions. 
In declassifying the project, the Air Force provided color photographs and a videotape of the plane in flight. The only one of its kind ever built, the Tacit Blue aircraft will go on 
r----------­
FRIDAY, MAY J!ill. 
PRE-EXAM PARTY 
featuring: 
A BAlTLE OF THE DJ'S 
Clip coupon and save $2.00 with 

L~ ~!e~r:_l~O~ ~_5!J.~6 
SATURDAY, MAY 
11TH 
END OF SEMESTER PARTY 
featuring: 

THE WOMPUS CATS 
(FORMERLY KNOWN AS THE BIG EARL BANP) 
public display May 22 at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. 
Shaped like no other known military aircraft, Tacit Blue resembles an upside-down bathtub with stubby wings. At 55 feet in length, it is a little shorter than the Air Force's main fighter, the F-15: its wing span of 48 feet is only a little wider than the F·l5's. It was not meant to carry any weapons. 
The plane was built between 1978 and 1982 by Northrop Corp., at its Hawthorne, Calif., plant for $136 million, Lt. Gen. George Muellner told n Pen· tagon news conference. Testing the plane cost $29 million more, he said. 
"It has been a pretty well­kept secret/' Muellner said. 
Aircraft enthusiasts have speculated for years about the existence of a super-secret spy plane some dubbed "Aurora," but that plane -which U.S. officials deny ever existed ­was supposed to be superson· 
ic. Tacit Blue was subsonic. 
Purdue frat hazers face discipline 
Associatrd Press 
WEST lAFAYETTE, Ind. 
Members of a Purdue University fraternity will be punished for hazing for ver­bally abusing pledgtJs and making them run in the street early one morning. 
"They were just asked to do sprints," Dean of Students 
Gregory  Singleton  said  
Monday  of  the  March  14  
offense.  

Five or six active members of Phi Kappa Theta forced six or seven pledges to run in the street at 1:30 a.m. near the fraternity's house in the Tower Acres area of campus where many of Purdue's Greek orga­nizations are housed. 
Purdue's policies against hazing prohibit activities be­tween 1 a.m. and 6 a.m. 
The Interfraternity Judicial Board ruled that most of the house's active members must attend a program about haz­ing and perform three hours of community service. 
The fraternity must now submit a copy of its pledge program to the Dean of Students for approval. 
Despite increasing university vigilance and enforcement of anti-hazing policies, Singleton said the incidents continue to occur. 
Want a Job? Go where the gold is! 
HOTJOB MARKETS USA 
Free info. (800) 722-0845 

All packing boxes, tape & peanuls are 50% off when we ship your items home. UPS, FED EX, U.S. Postal. WE SHIP IT AU. Offer good only at 
MAIL BOXES ETC. 
5776-51 Grape Rd. Indian Ridge Plaza Mishawaka Phone 273-8382 


page 16 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
• RUSSIA 
Communist resurgence draws mixed reviews 
By DEBORAH SEWARD 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Restore the Soviet Union and the old social guarantees. Return private property to the state. Turn back economic reforms. 
Communists' plans make mil­lions of Russians cheer and many others choke. 
Party leaders insist Russia is not in for a new revolution if their candidate, Gennady Zyuganov, wins June presiden­tial elections. But despite Zyuganov's efforts to portray himself as a benign, market­friendly social democrat, inter­views with Communist leaders reveal their strong commitment to Soviet-era values and poli­cies. 
"Nothing satisfies us. We can't say anything positive about what has happened here, when the country is in ruins," 
• BOSNIA 
says Valentin Kuptsov, the No. 2 man in the Communist Party. 
The anger and determination to undo many of Boris Yeltsin's reforms that emerges during conversations with Communist leaders contrasts with the party program, which is very vague on how to achieve its goals. 
Topping the list of tasks the Communists say they would undertake after victory is a sweeping revision of privatiza­tion, including wide-scale con­fiscation of property they believe was illegally acquired. 
Privatization, a centerpiece of Yeltsin's reforms, has put thousands of factories and shops into private hands and encouraged Western invest­ment in Russia over the past four years. 
Communists detest the pro­gram, which created thousands of overnight millionaires and ended the supposed social equality that existed during the 
Serbs block home visitation 
By LIAM McDOWALL 
Associated Press 
SARAJEVO 
Serbs blocked hundreds of Muslim refugees from visiting homes and cemeteries Tuesday, a day after two Muslims died in similar confrontations. NATO and the Bosnian government squabbled over who to blame for the escalating dilemma. 
Freedom of movement is a fundamental guarantee of the Dayton peace agreement that brought nearly 60,000 NATO­led soldiers to Bosnia. The solu­tion to the refugee problem also will help determine whether the lines drawn between military foes fade or harden into de facto borders. 
At Celie in northeastern Bosnia, about 300 unarmed Muslims faced off against about 100 Serbs, many armed with sticks. Three U.S. helicopters kept watch, but Russian peace troops and a few U.S. officers on the ground pulled back to let local p,olice and officials sort out the dispute. 
Serbs and Muslims, about 50 yards apart, yelled obscenities and taunted each other. "We have nothing in our hands, but we will tear you apart," one Muslim man yelled. 
Officials and Bosnian police pushed the crowd of Muslims back, and the people dispersed. But international efforts to get local officials talking failed; Serb police simply walked away. 
Farther south, another 200 Muslims were turned back by about 100 Serbs who built bar­ricades on the road between Gorazde and Kopaci. 
All was quiet Tuesday at Sjenina, near Doboj in north­central Bosnia, site of a clash Monday that killed two people. Swedish soldiers reinforced a checkpoint there with soldiers and armored vehicles. 
Hundreds of Muslims had gathered Monday hoping to be able to cross into Serb-held ter­ritory to visit their homes and cemeteries for the first time in four years. 
Some risked a minefield, try­ing to skirt the Serb crowd. Although reports still were unclear, two people were reported killed, one from gun­shot wounds and one from a mine blast. 
Officials of the NATO-led peace force could not confirm a third reported death. SRNA, the Bosnian Serb news agency, said 
fREE REN (.4R 
Soviet period. 

Anatoly Lukyanov, chairman of the old Soviet legislature and one of the 1991 coup plotters against Mikhail Gorbachev, says the party has a fat file on people suspected of violating privatization laws. 
"People say we want to take everything away," said Lukyanov. "We don't want to ta.ke anything away. We want the state to own what was stolen." 
In Russia, where doing almost anything requires a bribe, the Communists could probably catch just about any of the new business owners on a technical violation. 
"Everything that was pri­vatized legally should remain so," Kuptsov said. "We don't have a problem with that. Unfortunately in Russia, the majority of cases of privatiza­tion directly violated the law and used mafia capital." 
Private land is another big Communist no-no. 
"Farmland cannot be sold. If we do not ban this, all farmland will be sold to foreign investors and agricultural production will drop to zero," said Communist lawmaker Yuri Voronin, head of the budget committee in the Duma, the lower house of par­liament. 
While some Communists, such as Voronin, favor allowing Russians to own land on which to build houses, others firmly oppose all private landholding. 
"I think the introduction of private land ownership in Russia is inadmissible," said Valery Voronnikov, a former senior KGB official and member of the Duma's committee on economic security. 
Banning private ownership would be easy enough. All it would take is an executive order. But physically seizing the private property would be more difficult, as would restoring state monopolies in strategic metals, gas and oil, and stop­ping capital flight. 
The Communists also promise to provide free education, free medical care and jobs for all workers. But they don't seem to have any idea where they would get the money. 
Also high on the list of Communist "musts" is fighting crime and corruption, which would be popular. What wor­ries reformers is the possibility the Communists might resort to repression to restore the "poryadok," or "order," that many Russians crave. 
The Communists insist there will be no new gulags. 
"There is no question of a return to the past. We won't allow shooting and hanging," said retired Gen. Valentin Varennikov, another 1991 coup plotter, who is consider'ed a hard-liner. 

a Serb died Monday near Doboj. Bosnian TV retracted its report from Monday about the death of a woman in a second con­frontation near Sarajevo. It said the woman was actually alive and healthy. 
A spokesman for the U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, Mans Nyberg, report­ed that Muslims burned down at least three homes of Serbs in the eastern Bosnian town of Petrovac when a group of about 200 Serb refugees tried to visit their pre-war homes. 

Ready to sell your books? Don't wait in line... 
·:_: ... ·:·::·: : : ·. t "'':· 
Intro~uon~ a eat war to ~et more ann ~ar le~ wit the on·llne ~00~ fak Forget high prices and low re-sale. 
Hold on to your books and get yourself connected to cash at 
http://www.nd.edu/-studegov/ 
brought to you by Student Government 
~ : -j j \ .; 
j. 1 1, i ir •• ·' • " 

r---------------------------------~----------~~­
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
page 17 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Nmre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Pauicia ( :ar'ion Man Casey Tom Rol.md 
News Editor ........................ 1\rad Prendergast Advertising Manager ........................... Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor.................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager .............................. Jed Peters Sports t:ditor ....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager......................'fara Grieshop Accent Editor .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Galla van Saint Mary's Editor ................ Caroline Blum Controller ......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor ......................... Michael Ruma 
Tht• Oh~L·rvrr i!!. lht" independent newspaper published by rhe srudrnts of the Universiry of None 
D.amt" du LoK Jnd Saim Motry's College. It does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion nf dther in\lirunon. The news is rc=poned as accurately and ubjcclivdy as possible:. Unsigned edi~ tonJ.I\ rt'prr~rnr tht" opinion of rht" majority of rhe EJiror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Vit"wpuim Ediwr, A~.:u:·m Edi10r, Phmo Edimr, Spans Editor, and Saini Mary's Editor. Cummt"nlotriC"s, IC'ttcr~ Jnd lnsidt· Columns prescm rhe views of rhe aurhors, and not necessarily those of The Oh!tervrr. Vic..·wpuinr spal'C' is availahle to all members ofrhe None Dame/Saint Mary's com­nmnity Jnd 10 o~ll rcadc..·r~. The free expression of varying opinions through lenc:rs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
l'ditot·in-l:hid 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing F.Jirur/Vicwpoim 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spurr.. 631·4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Ncws/l1hmc' 631·5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4 540 fax 631-6927 l>ay Ediror/l'n~lunion 6.~ I·5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Generdllnfurmation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
Stealing is wrong, even if it is 'Right' 
Dear Editor: 
Ono of my roommates, Daniel Moloney, is the editor in 
dtief of a new publication at Notre Dame: Hight Reason. I 
realize that this fact will cause some people on campus to 
have a prejudicial reaction to me. That's fine, I don't choose 
my friends according to popular acclaim. Yet, to set the 
record straight. I actually disagroe with Dan on marly issues, , 
as any of our friends will attest. In fact I don't agree with a 
lot, probably most, of what is written in Hight Heason.­
However. I do agree that Dan and the other editors and con· 
tributors of Right Reason have a fundamental right to publish 
their paper and disseminate their ideas. Unfortunately, some 
people on our campus disagree with this. There are some at 
our university who deny those involved with Right Reason 
their right to civilly participate in a public exchange of ideas 
through the publication of their newspaper. Recently, the 
people who feel this way have taken it upon themselves to 
viciously steal all the copies of the latest Right Heason that 
they eould and dispose of them. It is these people who I'd 
like to address, as well as all those whom they offend. 
As I said above, I don't agree with much of what Right 
Henson says. That's my opinion. I am entitled to it and I 
expect to be allowed to express it. By the same token, 
because I eherish my right and my freedom to voice my opin­
ions, I must also respect and defend this same right for those 
with whom I disagree. This is what our society is based 
upon. It is uppalling that these newspapers were stolen. It 
is appalling that in the United States, and at a university, 
where the free exchange of ideas is cherished and guarded, 
thHre are some among us who have taken it upon themselves 
to eensor what is said in public in a non-affiliated newspa­
per. The people who have destmyed these newspapers are 
ignorant, lazy cowards: ignorant because they refuse to lis­
tim to ideas contrary to their own; lazy because they do not 
havtl what it takes to answer and respond to different ideas 
in a constructive way; and cowards because they are so 
arraid and timid in their own beliefs that they cannot stand 
to have contrary opinions circulated around them. I am 
ashamed to say that I attend the same university with such 
peopltl. 
To those pHople who have stolen the latest copies of Right 
Henson and to all who support their· actions I say 
Congratulations! Yes, congratulations, you have entered the 
ranks of book-burners and fascists. Good-job! Well done! 
JOSEPH NUZZI Graduate Student Theology 
Stop dining hall crime before it starts 
Dear Editor: 

Having read the article about your stance on sedentary dining hall employees in The Observer, I thought you might like my vote of confidence in the wake of the potential outcry by the small but vocal minority of people with feelings on campus. 
They'll tell you that eighty-year-old people shouldn't have to stand for hours on end. They'll say that you're putting ridiculous demands on someone's grandfather, someone's great-grand­mother. 
They'll say you're not a very nice guy, Jim. 
But I'm here to tell you that you're doing the right thing. We all know that if it weren't for the ever-vigilant dining hall sentries, food would be walking out those double doors as if it had feet of its own. 
One more high five 
Dear Editor: 

As seniors, we have been fortu­nate to experience four won­derful years of Bookstore Basketball, with this year's final game being the best we have seen. We would like to thank the members of Dos Kloskas and Showtime for playing an excel­lent and entertaining game of basketball on Sunday. 
However, we feel that one member of Showtime, Jeff Enes, was overlooked in the awards ceremony that followed the final game. All five members of Showtime contributed equally to the team's success in this year's tourna­ment. Jefi', too, deserves recognition for his outstanding play. 
Congratulations to both teams for making the 25th Bookstore Basketball Tournament exciting and memorable! 
JENNIFER HOCK SHANNON LYNN KIRSTEN DOTY Seniors 

We have to be very careful about food getting out of the dining hall, because we wouldn't want someone to enjoy an extra cookie or orange five minutes after leaving the dining hall. 
In fact, why don't we take this one step fur­ther? I propose the installation of snipers in the balconies. We can outfit the guards with two­way radios, and if someone happens to sneak under our search lights. we can head them off before they get past the bookstore. 
Jim, it's time to stop the insanity of food-pilfer­ing. Stick to your guns, for there are hard days 
ahead. DAVID CONDON 
Sophomore 
Zahm Hall 
Cheer, cheer 
Dear Editor: 
Language changes. So should the Notre Dame light song. As a member of the CCFM Graduate program in Ministry I have listened to valiant but unsuccessful attempts to include "sons and daughters marching". Any change to this venerable anthem should be gender inclusive, take into account students, faculty, staff, adopted family (like myselO, and alumni, retain a very appropriate matnrnal image, fit the music and change as few words as possible. With this in mind I propose that the words to the Notre Dame fight song be changed to read: " ... old Notre Dame will win over all. With her loyal children marching onward to victory." 
REV. FREDERICK MCLACHLAN S.S.E. 

• DnoNESBURY 
7H& THING 70 R£­MEMfJEi?., ZACK, 15 7HAT W'l¢ Y()(}A/6. 7HER£U 813 07Ht:.e.. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
OKAY,.. 
~RJ<Y, 
a/HAT/AJ&R& YOU5AY­ING2 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The Dome glowed so 
brightly today-shining with a light that held the mem­ory of the seniors' four years here . . . that those who looked directly upon it soon found it necessary to wipe moisture from their eyes as they turned away." 
-Kevin Coyne 

ACC~NT 
page 18 Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 

What are you doing this summer? 


"I'm going to be a nanny in Long Beach, Indiana." 
Katie Hanley Sophomore, Regina 

"Painting houses in Grand Rapids." 

Bill Duffy Sophomore, Dillon 


"I really don't have a clue ... l wish I did." 
Kellie Coyle Junior, Badin 

"Lay on my deck all sum­mer." 
Jill Moore Freshman, Holy Cross 

"Getting ready for next year's hockey season, working, and partying." 
Neal Johnson Freshman, Flanner 


"A summer service pro­ject in southeast Connecticut." 
Anne Freedy Sophomore, Farley 

t-1 ea~+I and LASA 
By LESLIE FIELD Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

The midwest. Pine trees and lakes and lots of mosquitos buzzing through the night. A large amount of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students are heading North to work or to be at home with their fami­lies. And with such a large amount of students from the MidWest, a quick drive to spend a weekend with friends and roomates is feasi­ble. So where are some Northern hot spots? 
Saint Mary's Junior Maggie Ryan, a Minnesota native, cites Lutsen as a popular vacation spot for many Northerners. 
This, like many Northern Minnesota spots, is known for its lake activities-a little laid back fishing and rowing are always refreshing before heading back to the city. Ryan, who lives in a suburb of Minneapolis, claims that much of the summer fun and college employment opportunities take place on or around Lake Minnetonka. 
The renown Lord Fletcher's restaurant, complete with dock park­ing for boats and a sand vollyball court just outside the restaurant, provides a great deal of fun; a terrific spot to watch the sun go down over the lake after a Saturday of tubing, boarding and skiing. 
As in many parts of the country, golf courses and yacht clubs are popular arenas for work­ing. Students make good tips, get to be outdoors and work in fairly relaxed atmos­pheres. 
Junior Emily MacDonald 
will be North this summer, but 
will not be boating the summer away. 
She is, instead, taking classes at Michigan 
State in Research and Child Psychology. 
Many students are opting to continue their educa­
tion into the summer. And why not? What better 
place to be than in your apartment in Turtle Creek or 
College Park, gearing up for the 1996-'97 academic year? 
Many students, like Maggie Ryan (another one!) will be staying in South Bend for the summer, taking Psychology classes and working at the Center for the Homeless. Internships in the South Bend area are popular with students too. ''I'm taking Computers and Business and will hopefully have an internship," says Junior Brittany Anthone. 
But if school and work just seem like too much to handle during finals, there are always the wacky Wisconsin Dells. If water slides and river rafting are your bag, then this is the spot for you. Miniature golf courses take over for miles as tourists hit Noah's Ark by day and the Ho Chunk Casino by night. Junior Erin Luedecking will be spending a part of her summer in the quaint harbor town of Charlevoix on lake michigan. 'It's a great, relaxing resort spot for boating, shopping and just being with your friends and family,' said Luedecking. No matter where in the midwest you are this summer just know that there are many fantastic hidden havens to enjoy. 
t--1 eadiV\ 
By LESLIE FIELD Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

The Wild West. You can't b convertible from Seattle to Mariner's baseball hat over you you make it out of Seattle befor get a few days off from your int shop on Capitol Hill, why n Francisco, stopping off along thE side towns like Gerhart. 
The Columbia River Gorge is a packing a picnic and catching a 
The West has so much to stands for the best of both create a canopy around the is transformed into a 9 to 5 Coast defines road trip and many. If you prefer to go by 

Some so~AtherV\ SlAmmer co 
By MEAGHAN SMITH ing post truck stops sprinkled by the w· Accent Writer find "genuine" Native American artif< busts of the presidents, and a Harle 
Get your kicks on Route 66 and head south this summer. Lonf. Zippo all under one roof? But don' after the annual spring break migration, when thousands of snow­much time shopping, summer awaits. weary students inch their way closer to the equator, there is still said that the all-nighters would end life below the Mason-Dixon line. As someone must have once said, was out was wrong. Head for the cityl you can take the spring break out of the South ... sleeps (and you thought you had it 
Think about it. A veritable southern feast for the senses. An Antonio, Texas, and hit Planet Hollywc entire summer chock-full of chili cookoffs, Cajun spices, and all the up the other night lights. If you want to crawdads you care to eat. Sounds like a South Dining Hall theme lights, the biggest and the brightest meal disaster in the making! The sweet smells of the surf along the shining in Vegas. Save those quarters coast. Break the methanol habit! The expanse of White Sands, and gear up for some gambling. New Mexico, and the lazy tumbleweed just tumbling along. No And speaking of the states, suppor1 squirrels! The echo of the Grand Canyon and the feel of the warm the good 'ol U S of A and partake in tlJ summer sun just about everywhere you go. It all sounds like a festivities in Atlanta. Although you may vacation in paradise, but for many students this summer, it's only a your soul for a ticket, and then only weekend away. score a seat for synchronized swimming 
Put a little more distance between you and South Bend and head ways have been recently repaved, thE even further south of the border. You'll have to float your boat or have been repainted, and the city lo possibly even fly the friendly skies to get there, but senior Rick American as ever. After spending som Paredes said that even though he has to start living in the real with patriotic jocks, you may work up , world this summer, he'll still be running in the sun when he heads Museum is the real thing. For the matJ home to Panama. Nightlife doesn't sleep up until long after dawn, the Buckhead offers the best brew in tov. when most would be pulling into the office parking lot and starting Southern brew shouldn't be too hard t the daily grind. Nap till noon and then hit the shores for some your favorite after-hours concoctions a scuba diving off the coast of an island in the Pacific or a hike or speak somewhere south of South Bend. bike through rainforest trails. The best part, according to this sum­you can't parlez fran~ais, you can easily! mer-loving fellow, is the laid back atmosphere of the south. And establishments in Louisiana's French Qu the fact that everyone wears a little less. If you're not from the south and feeli1 
Stay in the states, though, and you won't be disappointed. The down-home excitement summer off best part may well be the trip. My personal favorites are the trad-Southbound Express and y'all enjoy your 
W<:dncsday, May l, 1996 
e 
I 

fo~ the wild1 wild west 
hop aboard. A boat trip to Washington's San Juan Islands or a forty-live minute plane ride to Orcas .Island make fun filled excur­sions with something for everyone. Orcas Island's new star hotel, 

at tlw fenling of a drive in your Hosario Hesort, offers a real resort feeling while keeping the nat­rtland. You throw on an old ural feeling of the island. sun streakml hair and hope that So why make this summer your time to head West for a taste of 
tlw rain starts falling. If you can that laid baek, anything goes eulture? Like pioneers have been 
1ship at Microsoft or your coffee doing since the days of the Forty-niners, Seniors Mary Good and t make the long drive to San Betsy Fuerstenbeg are ready for a change and feel that Seattle is a . Ort!gon Coast at rustie little sea place to make that change happen. 
They are planning to start a small business catoring to the 
a pieturr.squn spot, perfect for Seattle population and, with hard work and dedication, watch it ncnrt. grow. "It just seems like a good time to do it. Seattle is such a to r.olltige studnnts, as it beautiful city. We're really looking forward to being a part of it," 
The mountains , . ., \ said Good. The West, with all of its wonders-from the big skies of 
. . , I ... j 
.,

wlwre boatmg ..r. t1. L•fl:··, 1· Montana to idaho potato fields-has much to offer to anyone who 
'1'1 w --j'IO::... ,
tn est ~~,...·~; .. :~-...~.r . dreams of peaceful summer nights. And, as long as you're East of the Mississippi Hiver, be sure to take in a sun set over the golden
t~ndom for et~··· ..;;._ .):\· \:. 
at, than ~·-·-1~· ...... ·...<· .t.:;,; gate bridge. Nothing is more golden. 
ACCENT 
'''l•· .,..,,.
\..... •·. ··: . 
~_; ...: ' ...~ . .
........... 
.' ~ ;""' 

forts 
timn in the sumnwr sun thirst, and thn Coca-Cola rn (rnad 21-and-up) thirst. 
' lind, eonsirll~ring some of aging grar.nfully as wn Still undnr agn? Evnn if k your way into drinking rtt~r. a litlln jnalous of all thn s, jump on hoard tlw vns, lwar'? 
-~ 

Northeastei"'V\ Vlights 
By KRISTIN DOYLE 
Associa[c Accem Editor 
The mild temperatures of May prompt Northeasterners from Maine to 
D.C. to emerge from a cold winter's hibernation and take full advantage of a vast assortment of summer activities and locales. Need some inspi­ration'? Some Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have already 
planned out their summer fun and their strategys share some essential elements. 
I. Do som1~ serviee as work or as an unpaid supplement to employ­mlmt. Community work is a great way to make the lazy days of summer more productive than just moula-making and partying. Anne Freedy, a sophomore from Farley and Pittsburgh will participate in a Notre Dame summer program in Norwich, Conn. "I will be working at a transitional home for single mothers with young children. They are all formally homeless and the program aims to keep a non-chemical and non-violent environmnnt for the women and their children while they get back on their feet." The service rewards in the program are obvi­ous, but Norwich's location. about halfway between New York and 
Boston, is ideal for weekends at the beach or in an unfamiliar city. All of cities in the East have busy soup kitchens that always need enthusias­tic: help. Gather up a few friends a couple of nights every week and serve up some hot eats and stimulating conversation. 
2. Don't let yourself get cooped up in a stuffy ollice. Summer for col­lege students often consists of forty hour per week internships, so be sure your weekends include Jots of outdoor activities. While Anne will have to miss it this year, she highly recommends the Three Rivers 
Hegatta if you are in the Pittsburg area this August. "The whole city participates in a few days of activities, carnivals and fireworks working up to a big speedboat race at the end of the weekend." 
If you are clever, you can also construct your employment plans to allow for maximum sun exposure. Rachel Cain, a sophomore from Pasquerilla West, landed an ideal job in retail on quaint Martha's Vineyard. "I have spent the last few summers working for the same 
chain in my hometown of Hiverside Connecticut. My employer offered to transfer me to Edgartown and I'm living above the store rent free." 
Summer house nanny jobs offer another way to combine sun and surf with money-making. Colleen Heilley, also from Pasquerilla West, plans 
to spend this summer as a live-in baby-sitter in West Hampton, New York. Hent a cottage on one of the quiet lakes of Maine. 
They are perfect for a family weekend of hiking and watersports. Want an unforgettable nature experience? Climb Mount Washington in New Hampshire in a single day on the safe but challenging beginner trails. The Cape and the islands offer a more lively nightlife and the tourist industry 
provides an assortment of jobs for college students. 
3. Summer means music. Each of the major outdoor ampithe­
aters in the Northeast will once again present the pop-folk H.O.H.D.E. fest and the alternative Lollapollooza tour performances. Boston's Hiver Have sponsored by WBCN offers an afternoon of music and free promo­tional gifts on the Charles River. Need a more mellow evening? The Boston Pops orchestra performs every week in the same outdoor amp­itlwater. 
Jaekie McAllister, a sophomore from Farley recommends the WI !Festival at HFK stadium outside of Washington D.C. "The fourth of July is also pretty fun. Close to a million people gather on the Mall and there is an outdoor concert near the Capital." 
So if you too arc headed for Yankee country in the coming months rest assured, with this handy guide and a little initiative, you will have little trouble finding cool stuff to see and do. For up to the minute sug­gestions, cheek out the entertainment sections of the major newspapers in your city of choice. 
page 19 

• ACCENT SPEAKS••• 
Sprinkler davs and ice cream nights 
By SARAH DYlAG 
Accent Copy Editor 
When I was little, summer was an eternity of long, hot ice cream eati~g days and longer, cooler, barefoot nights. It all began with the shaving cream light on the last day of school and it lasted until the day before school started in the fall when we had to go check out the class lists on tho elementary school doors. Somewhere in between we found time to play every game ever created by kids, consume countless boxes of popsicles, start a million failed tree houses, scrape both of our knees and elbows, and drive our parents absolutely crazy. It was the free­dom that we loved, though we didn't know it at the time. Summer was our chance to just be the kids that we were. Things were simple and our biggest problem was whether to play red rover or hide-and-seek. I know it sounds like the begin· ning to some corny Hollywood movie, but just think about it for a second. When we were little, summer rocked. And I can give you at least ten reasons why: 
1. 
The neighborhood pool. On those blazing hot days, we all packed up our peanut butter and jelly lunches and rode our bikes to the pool for never-ending games of water tag and Marco Polo. We didn't know about skin cancer and we didn't really care. All we had to think about was how to ouL'>mart the lifeguard so we could swim during the fifteen minute rest peri­od. 

2. 
Sidewalk Chalk. Your mother actually gave you the tools to defile public property. Sure, it washed away in the rain, but that didn't change the fact that while you were drawing, you felt like some sort of shady gratliti artist. 

3. 
Little League. Face it, little league was the last time everyone got to play no matter how untalented they were. No one sat on the bench, everyone was a star and none realized how badly they played so everyone had fun. 

4. 
The ice cream man. When we heard that certain music we all ran home to beg our parents for spare change and then chased down the truck to buy "!lockets" or "Push-up Pops." Never mind the fact that he was a crusty old man who had nothing better to do but drive a truck around neighbor­hoods and tempt little kids to come over to the side, the ice cream man Wl\S a hero. 

5. 
Sprinklers. Hemember those days when the sprinkler meant more than the chore of watering the lawn'? Instead, on hot days we hung around the house and whined until Mom turned on the sprinkler. (For some strange reason we thought this sprinkler game was a reasonable alternative to the pool.) For hours we would run back and forth through tho icy water getting grass stuck to our feet. 

6. 
Street games. Whether it was Kick-the-Can or Ghost in the Graveyard, street games filled most of the idle summor time in my neighborhood. It was the last time that it really didn't matter who won or lost as long as you weren't "it." 

7. 
Lemonade stands and car washes. In a desperattl attempt to earn "ice cream man money" we attempted to sell bitter homemade lemonade (or Kool-Aid) or offered a streaky $1 car wash to the passiqg cars. We truly believed we were great salespeople when the cars actually stopped and we cheered when we earned $5 on a banner day. The collected change in the old shoe box seemed like a fortune and we definitely felt rich. 

8. 
The reading game at the library. Okay, I'll admit that this was a somewhat unpopular summer aetivity, but I was the type who played and won. The point is, when we were little, summer was the time to read pointless books of our own choos­ing without analyzing the details (and how much was there to analyze in those Nancy Drew/Hardy Boys books anyway?). 

9. 
Bike races. Sure, we all couldn't wait until we could drive, but we settled for frantic races around the block on our 1 0-speeds. Someone always fell off and got hurt, but bandaged knees were an admirable symbol of true daredevil riding. And the raee was never completely settled because there always had to be a rematch when someone changed the rules. 

10. 
Ice cream. The flavor didn't really matter and nei­ther did the fat content. Instead, a trip to the local ice eream parlor was a small piece of' heaven and the pHrfeet way to top off any summer day. 


I could probably list ten more reasons, but I think you get the point. The fact is, as a kid, summer was a time when the world was as big as your backyard and you were strong enough and sm<trt enough to conquer it. Now, we're older and the world has gotten a lot bigger and the summer seems to have gotten a lot shorter. We can't "change the rules" anymore. Selling lemonade and washing cars just doesn't eut it. and the easy lazy days have faded into the past. Whilo I realizH that we can nnver (and might not want to) regain those days, I challenge you all to keep some piece of childhood summer in your lives. While I still don't think chasing that crusty ice cream man is a good idea, I hope you can all think of the world as your backyard (a really. really big backyard) and fearlessly explor(~ and conquer it. But don't forgot to have a little fun along the way. And remember to stop for some ice cream. 
·• 
r 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
I I Classifieds 
Wednesday, May 1, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 20 
NOTICES 

HOST an EUROPEAN EXCHANGE student in Michiana & U.S. Call now, Lynsey 277.7263 
Michiana Paintball -If you've never played you'll love the game. If you've played before, you'll love the field. 291-9462 
J U N I 0 R S !!!! 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF RESUME AND DISK 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­MENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
The Last Support meeting for Gay, Lesbian, and questioning folks will be on Thursday night at 7:30. Call 287-6665 for more information. 
This is a special thank you to all the Supportive members of the ND/SMC community. We as Gay, Lesbian, bisexual, and Questioning Students, Faculty, and Staff want to commend your efforts. Smile and be Proud 
Are you OVERWORKED? Are you UNDERPAID? Are you graduating WITHOUT a JOB? Let's TALK, 273-3804 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: a black minolta freedom camera on april 17th between stepan basketball courts and turtle creek (by way of the road that runs by the tennis courts). it had a strip of duct tape on the back and a fin­ished roll of film inside. if you find it, please call bridget at 273-8575. need it for senior week! thanks... 
Lost -Women's Seiko watch. Between Crowley and library, 4/15. Please call Jean, 277-6233. 
Found ... Gold bracelet with name Missy in Debartolo Hall, Call Tim 273-4389 to reclaim. 
Did you lose a ROSARY the day before Spring Break in front of NDH? I have it. Sorry it's taken me so long to find the Lost 
and Founds! Call Beth at 4­4936 to identity. 
Found Gold Watch Please call 4-4244 or 4-4064 
Lost: Green J. Crew Jacket. If found please call Dave at 4-3321. Thanks. 
WANTED 

ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students SUMMER WORK 
$10.25 to start National company expanding local­ly. Scholarships. Possible interns/co-ops. Build your resume. Call office nearest your hometown. SOUTH BEND 219-282-2357 FORT WAYNE 219-471-6113 INDIANAPOLIS 317-767-5416 MERRILLVILLE 219-769-2352 LAFAYETTE 317-449-1954 BLOOMINGTON 812-339-3966 KOKOMO 317-454-8840 TERRE HAUTE 812-231-6824 EVANSVILLE 812-428-6675 
Anyone from the Philly area who 
-
knows who is driving the U-HAUL 
with your stuff home for the 
summer. please call Amy at 
271-8346. I need info!! 
I need 1 or 2 graduation tix. Can you help? Call Amy @ 271-8346 
Looking for a JOB in South Bend? Life Treatment Center needs a male, non-drinking, ND student as a live-in house manager. Rent is free.Call Jim at 239-6418 for Info. 
HELP-NEED GRAD TIX$$$ ALISA-271-8346 
Grad studenllooking for summer tutoring work -variety ages/sub­jects, inc. english. contact heather 634-4527; after 10 may, 256-9175 ALASK SUMMER EMPLOYMENT­Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or female. No experience necessary. Call (206)971-3510 ext A55845 
J U N I 0 R S !!!! 
U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY OF RESUME AND DISK 
N TO CAREER & PLACE­MENT SERVICES FOR RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. 
R 
s 
JOBS IN YOUR HOMETOWN An Inc. 500 company with 40 locations in north/central Indiana. northwest Ohio, and southwestern Michigan has hundreds of summer employ­ment opportunities $6.00-$10.00 per hour Call1-800-421-1923. 
Earty vestiges of a classic R'n'R band looking for 
DRUMMER KEYBOARDIST Who know how to PLAY Brian x3744 
Wanted: Back issues of JUBILEE, Catholic magazine pub. 5/53 to 9/68. Ralph Gustafson 3 Mich. St. Apt.#1 Valparaiso, IN 46383. 465­1699 
Summer Bbysitter Wanted 2 days week 2-6pm 2 children age 6 & 8 Must have reliable transportation Please call 277-5786 
I am looking for as many graduation tickets as possible. Will pay$$. Call Katie X1093 
Office assistant position open in downtown South Bend law office. Part-time, mornings. Computer experience needed with Windows and Word Perfect. Send resume to 
P.O. Box 511 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
A SUMMER OF PLAY FOR PAY! ND couple ('83) seeks energetic, loving, fun summer nanny for our sons. Phila, PA Main Line area. 800-523-1036 X15907 
Female roommate for summer school and/or '96-'97 school year. Turtle Creek, 2 bedrm apt., part. furnished, A/C, $260/month, N/S pref. Call Laura @ 273-5890 ASAP for more details! 
Need someone to share your rent in Chicago this summer? Please help me find somewhere to sleep!! ASAP Amy 284-4344 
Do you have old mag. issues of WIRED, SPIN. SPY, GEORGE, SWING or INTERVIEW? Please call me. Amy 284-4344 
CELLULAR SALES Gain experience and good money on your own time. Many positions open, call nowl (219) 257-0737 
FOR RENT 

ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE 
HOME. VERY CLOSE TO ND. IDEAL FOR SMC-ND EVENTS. 
272-6194. 
COLLEGE PARK APT FOR SUMMER BEST OFFER CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 
Mishawaka, clean upstairs 1 bedroom apartment, no smokers, $300/month, open June 1, call after May 8. 255­4766. 
2 HOUSES IN SAFE AREAS NEAR ND. 
ONE W/6 BEDRMS; ONE W/5 BDRMS. EXCEL. COND. READY FOR 96-97 SCHOOL YR CALL MARK KRAMER 289-5999 OR 255-9471. 
3 bdrm brick ranch, pool, ale, 5 min 9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c drive to campus, close to state ****** A GREAT DEAL ******* FAX IT FAST! I! Hey, Donkeys, parks, $850 month + $850 deposit, 84 Ford Escort ... standard ...white... Sending & Receiving My Section Alkies, corner of US 31/33 N & Adams Rd runs great... very reliable! $975 at MyB--s. 273-1144 2-6 pm, 289-3663 after 7 THE COPY SHOP Thanks for all the memories pm Call today before it's too late! LaFortune Student Center Keep out of trouble next year-you 
234-4219 Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 won't have me to keep you clean. IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY FAX IT FAST!! I Be smart, be safe, use good goat Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE thinking. HOUSE" or other approved homes. lggy Needs a Home!!II Amy Weiher-Happy Anniversary. Be excellent to each other. Grad. -Football games I am going abroad and can't take Only one more of these before we And remember, 219-277-7003 my iguana with me. Could you give are together forever!! Miss you and MICKEY LOVES 
lggy a home? Everything included see you soon. I LOVE YOU!! Love YOU! Nicely Decorated ROOMS FOR at a super low price. Call273-1612 always, Pat 9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c9c RENT Grad., Ftball and Orient. if interested. Wknds. Located 2 miles off-cam­THE COPY SHOP Butt,Pirate,Mai!Phillip,HMOC,J­pus, cont. brkfast incl. Many happy 86 Accord DX sedan, Sspd. good LaFortune Student Center man,DB & LondonSon: When I customersl277-8340 condition, $2500/best offer, 273-EXTENDED FINALS HOURS think about you ... l have to sing: 
6212. Fri. 5/3 7:30am -Midnight••• Edleweiss,Edleweiss,every morning ROOM FOR RENT Sat. 5/4 9:00am -Midnight••• you greet me-BaiiState $295 incl utilities and extras! CONDO for sale. Oakhill. Sun. 5/5 9:00am -Midnight••• Great location!! 232-8953 2B/B. Loft. Part. furn. Mon. 5/6 7:30am -Midnight Now the question remains .... 
Close to N.D. $71,900 or B.O. Tues. 5/7 7:30am -Midnight Will The Censored make a reap­Living in Chicago for the summer? (W)508-432-6281 Wed. 5/8 7:30am -Midnight pearance. We (two guys ND95) need a sum­(H)SOB-432-4147 Thur. 5/9 7:30am -Midnight mer roommate from June to mid­Fri. 5/1 0 7:30am -7:00pm ATTENTION ALL SEX MACHINES: August. In the heart of Lincoln Park LASER PRINT FROM YOUR We're open all SUMMER too! this is YOUR LAST CHANCE to (best neighborhood). Two blocks ROOM I APPLE PERSONAL LASR­get funk in your mouf from from lake and two steps from bus WRTR LS -$250 OBO. LIKE NEW THE COPY SHOP » RICHARD « stop. -WI MANUALS. 272-4649 LaFortune Student Center on the sax call Tom (312) 528-1482 WE'RE OPEN ALL SUMMER! 
1987 BUICK LESABRE LTD Our summer hours begin so come see NEED ROOMATE FOR SPACIOUS AIR, PWR WNDWS & DOORS, after finals are over DOWNTN APT PRIV 1/2 BATH CRUISE. RUNS GREAT! on Saturday May 11 REVEREND FUNK W/ROOM $200/MO HEAT INCL ONE OWNER -$3000 OBO Mon-Fri 8:30am-5:30pm ALISA@ 237-1840 272-4649 CALL 631-COPY 
THE COPY SHOP CLUB 23 BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY LaFortune Student Center FRIDAY 219-291-7153 Waterfront Condos 
1 Bedrooms from $52,000 if you're not on the horse, you need Cozy Furnished Student Apts 2 Bedrooms from $80,000 not apply -large 1 bedrm, $330 New Decor Ride needed to Southern NY or -small 1 bedrm. $260 EVERYTHING included Northern NJ on Sunday 5/19 or 755 South Bend Ave Close to Notre Dame Monday 5/20. Also, anywhere near SIX PACK, ALUMNI, & THE 1 block west of ND Ave BEAUTIFUL! Meadville PA on 5/19. Please help, PHOXY LADIES: deposit, references NORTH SHORE CLUB I will pay for gas/tolls, drive, and You guys make ND awesome. 1-800-582-9320 232-2002 keep you entertained! Call Brian hope you'll think of me next year. I'll 
x1173. Thank you. miss you so much. Thanks for 
........................................ 
being there for me. I LOVE YOU OAK HILL CONDO Europe $199 OW ALL! 2 BDRI 2 BATH/ LOFT Caribbean/Mexico $189 RT -ELIZABETH $665/ MONTH & Domestic Destinations Cheap!! I NEED GRADUATION TICKETS!!! JUNE 1-MAY 31 IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PLEASE HELP ME AND MY HAPPY BIRTHDAY DEAR DOM CALL MRS. MARCHIOLO PRICES START YOUR OWN THREE LOVING GRANDPAR­I'll be thinking of you all day! 
(818) 968-7030 DAMN AIRLINE! ENTS WHO ARE COMING FROM Love, Lisa Air-Tech Ltd. 212/219-7000 CANADA info@ aerotech.com CALL CHRISTIAN AT 287-6743 JILL G., 
MISHAWAKA EFFICIENCY http://campus. nellaerotech GOOD LUCK ON FINALS. IF YOU $ 255 MO.& LIGHTS. SUNNY WANT TO BREAK FOR LUNCH, 3RM.2ND FLOOR;QUIET BLD. D.J. Mixer CALL ME. 1 ADULT,NO PETS,BUS LINE. UPS LOVE, MOM 259-6050. 4 Channels, Cross-Fader, 6 Band on 
Equalizer, Mic. Talk-Over, 6 Sound Campus Jebidiah Springfield says: Students Welcome! New Mini Effects. Cue Switch, etc... by Lux BEST RATES A noble spirit embiggens even the Storage Facility, 6482 Brick Rd. Sound. COUNTRY HARVESTER smallest man. Call219-277-3122. M-F 10-5 Sat 12-3 
$240 Flat Ship thru 5-22-96 ADOPTION/A LOVING CHOICE RM FOR FALL '96/SPR '97 Happily married, well-educated cou­$250, FURNISHED, 5-MIN DRIVE. Call Isaac Jeff: ple will give your baby a loving, 232-7175. 634-1668 Don't forget your underwear. stimulating. financially secure 
home. Confidential, legal, expenses GRADUATION COTTAGE & RED '93 LEBARON CONV. BEFORE YOU GO! paid. Call Joni & Shep 800-528­RESIDENCES NEAR N.D. @ EXCEL. COND. BEFORE IT'S DONE! 2344 $60/NIGHT-& AVAILABLE FOR LOADED. (616) 471-1557. DON'T FORGET TO GET YOUR SCHOOL YEAR. 272-1968. COPY OF FOUR FOOD GROUPS ADOPTION: 
386/40, 130 HD, 4 Ram, 14" moni­FIRST BOOK: "A WELL BAL­I'm a very happy little girl named Room for rent -summer or school tor, printer, Windows 3.1 + plenty of ANCED MEAL" Caitlin who is adopted. I would love year '96-97. Nice neighorbood. software. $750 OBO. Matt at 234-(AVAILABLE AT HAMMES AND a baby sister or brother to play with. $320/mo. 255-9005 8129. WHEEL LAFORTUNE) My parents are ND grads. Dad's a 
lawyer and mom plays with me full 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAM­VCR Call David @ 4-4385 THERE ARE FEW THINGS IN LIFE time. We have a wonderful life. with PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-AS SATISFYING AS A GOOD plenty of hugs, kisses, toys, & love 6306 LAUGH (EXCEPT MAYBE A for a new baby. Call Meg & Shawn 
UGHTLY CHILLED PABST BLUE collect. (708)355-4970. Confidential Need a place to stay for the sum­FOR SALE: RIBBON) ..... &legal. mer???? SO GET THE FIRST FOUR FOOD 
Two bedrooms, two full bath at KEGERATORI!! GROUPS BOOK: "A WELL BAL­J U N I 0 R S 1!1! College Park Condominiums ANCEDMEAL" Upstairs apartment with high ceil­Holds 3 (AVAILABLE AT WHEEL LAFOR­U SUBMIT PRINTED COPY ings and outdoor deck industrial KEGS!!! TUNE AND THE HAMMES INFO OF RESUME AND DISK $690/month (utilities not included) DESK) N TO CAREER & PLACE­Call Matt @ 273-8859 ~nee used at Busch stadium MENT SERVICES FOR 
GRADS! PARENTS! PICK UP RESUME BOOKS NOW! 
CALL 239-8922 THE BEST MOMENTO OF NOTRE DISCOUNTED & FURNISHED DAME LIFE BEFORE YOU GO! 0 DEADLINE: BEFORE YOU APARTMENT FOR RENT THIS LEAVE CAMPUS IN MAY. SUMMER @ COLLEGE PARK. "A WELL BALANCED MEAL" R CALL JEN, NICOLE, OR SARAH 1973 Volkswagen Bug @ 273-1738 Good condition o new paint THE FIRST CARTOON COLLEC­s 
runs well o fun car for those who TION FROM FOUR FOOD demand roundness in their automo­GROUPS .... GOLF SCRAMBLE 
CHICAGO biles! Friday, May 3. -2nd Study Day-Sublet -1 bedrm Apt. on Lake in $2200 OBO o 273-6260 AVAILABLE AT HAMMES BOOK­9 am shotgun start. Pizza after­Gold Coast for 5/96-6/96. $610. STORE AND LAFORTUNE INFO ward! 4 person teams; $10 per (918)459-8701 or 4-1289 DESK player. Call Todd @ x3249. 
GREAT PRIZES. Summer Sublet: Large home TICKETS near campus. Available mid­SABOR LATINO June to mid-August. Price i need class 1 cruise tix negotiable. 237-0545 call bridget at 273-8575 "AJIRAN" The Last Support meeting for Gay, 
Lesbian, and questioning folks will NEED A FEMALE OFF-CAMPUS We need Grad. tix. Save us. Anna CD RELEASE PARTY be on Thursday night at 7:30. Call ROOMMATE FOR FALL '96 X2322 287-6665 for more information. SEMESTER ONLY. SHARE RENT. Thursday May 2nd CALLx0700. NEED 4 GRADUATION TIX! CALL 9 pm-? esc 
271-8262. 

SABOR LATINO This is a special thank you to all the Supportive members of the ND/SMC community. We as Gay,
I..,N::.:.~~-J I 
PERSONAL 
Lesbian, bisexual, and Questioning baths, walk to ND. finished lower OoOoOoOoOaOaOaOaOoOoO Still thinking on that name Students, Faculty, and Staff want to level, all appliances. garage, one-QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!l how about Ginger, Cookie, WaWa, commend your efforts. Smile and owner, $76,900, 277-8898 THE COPY SHOP or just crazy bunz!l be Proud 
LaFortune Student Center 1991 Jeep Cherokee Sport 2D Phone 631-COPY Lucas and Tyler rock The Observer 4WD Stick, White, Cruise control, oaoaoaoaoaoaoaoaoaoao world. Too bad Nannery's not To the PICCOLOS: towing package, fog lights, Iondo around...probably out celebrating Thanks for a great dinner-we're lover, Top condition: $10,500 HELP-NEED GRAD TIX$$$ her birthday or something. Have fun going to miss you all! Call: 684-2665 between 6-Bpm. ALISA-271-8346 kids. Love, The Senior Piccs 
-t ~ ~ • ~ 4 ~ ~ o1 o1 oj \4 4 ot •I •I ot .. •1•1 ·I i .. ·I ·I ·•·t·l ·t·h· i· I ~ I I t \ I ~ I 1 : : I I I I ~ t r I I I I I I t-I I II I I t I I I I I I I.I, U
I ' ~ \ t& \ " ... k h ... tt. b. k ....... "-" ~," ....... ,, h 1~ t •• u l. d ~ II • • • ' II .... -I •• ' •• h • ' •• ' 'I • I '' • • • . • . . . . . . • • .. .• • .. .. • • • • • • • 
" 
Wednesday, May 1, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Mondesi breaks out of slump Braves continue hot 
A..o<:iared l'ren Then, he gave the Dodgers a 5-Dodgers hitting instructor 1 lead in the third with his Reggie Smith before the game, LOS ANGELES fourth homer of the season. and the two watched films of 
streak, beat Astros 
Haul Mondesi is considered Mondesi, the 1994 NL Hookie Mondesi hitting afterward. 
one of baseball's finest young players, bning compared by many to I tall of Farner Hoberto Cltnnente. Lately, however, Mondesi has been an automatic out for opposing pitchers. 
Los Angeles Dodgers man­ager Torn Lasorda said he con­sidernd sitting Mondesi down for a game, but said he thought about a lot of diiTerenl things to try and get the 25-year-old rightlinlder going. 
"It's like a snowball going downhill," Lasorda said. "The further down the hill it gets, the biggt~r it gets. You try to derail it; thnrn are all different ways. We thought the best thing was for him to play through it." 
Play through it, Mondesi did, ending an 0-for-24 slump with thrne hits, including a three­run horner and live HBis, as the Dodgers boat the Chicago Cubs I 0-4 on Monday night. 
Batting deanup in the ab­snnee of injured Eric Karros, Mondnsi singlnd and scored the first Los Angnles run in the sec­ond off Kevin Foster (3-2). 
of the Year, added a two-run single off Terry Adams to cap a three-run eighth and turn the game into a blowout. 
"That's like going to the doc­tor when you're sick and get­ting an injection," Lasorda said of Mondesi's performance. 
Cubs manager Jim Higgleman had an inkling Sunday that Mondesi was about to break out of his slump. 
"lie's a heck of a player," Riggleman said. "(Sunday), he hit a hard ball to right-center and you could see him come out of it. You know he's going to get his hits, but we hoped we'd get out of town before he got hot." 
Mondesi had also been in a 4­for-46 slide, dropping his aver­age to .194. Monday night's performance raised his average to .214. 
"Nothing like this ever hap­pened to me," Mondesi said. "I was thinking too much. That never happened to me before, going a whole week without a hit." 
Mondesi worked with 
WANTED!! 
Notre Dame/St. Mary's Students Retail Sales Home Football Weekends -1996 
Grea:l: $$$ 
Will Not Conflict With Game Times 
Please Send Personal Information (Including Summer Phone#) To: P.O. Box 385 
Camp Hill, PA 17001 
GO IRISH! 
"lie told me to be patient, see the ball and hit it," Mondesi said. "I feel more confident now." 
Pirates 10 Reds 7 
CINCINNATI 

Jeff King hit a solo homer and a grand slam in a nine-run fourth inning night Tuesday night as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat Cincinnati 10-7, the Reds' eighth consecutive defeat. 
King became the third player in major-league history to have a two-homer inning for the sec­ond time in his career. He also homered twice in an inning last Aug. 8 against San Francisco. 
Orlando Merced and Jacob Brumlield added solo homers to help Denny Neagle (3-1 l get his first road victory of the season. The left-bander allowed five runs and 10 hits over six-plus innings, coasting behind the big lead. 
The Heds rallied late, cutting it to 10-7 on llal Morris' two­run homer in the eighth off Dan Plesac. Francisco Cordova got the final four outs for his first major-league save. 
The Reds are in their deepest slump since September 1993, when they lost 12 in a row. They started an identical 9-16 that year under rookie man­ager Tony Perez, who was fired after 44 games. 
Bookie manager Hay Knight fielded his 25th different lineup in 25 games Tuesday and owner Marge Schott slipped wads of good-luck dog hair into the back pockets of four players during batting practice. Knight, who had called the game a "must-win deal," watched his pitching staff implode in the fourth. 

Associared Press 
HOUSTON 

Chipper Jones hit a go-ahead two-run single in the ninth and Fred McGriff homered on the next pitch, giving the Atlanta Braves a 7-5 victory over the Houston Astros and their sixth win in seven games. 
John Smoltz (5-1) allowed three runs and five hits in eight innings and struck out 10, in­creasing his league-leading to­tal to 51. Smoltz has held bat­ters to a .171 average, best among NL pitchers. 
With the score tied 3-3, Dwight Smith hit for Smoltz and singled off Todd Jones (3­1). Marquis Grissom singled off Huss Morman, Mark Lemke sacrificed and Jones singled up the middle. McGriff then hit his sixth homer for a 7-3 lead. McGriff was 5-for-5, matching his career best. 
An error by Jones at third al­lowed a run to score in the bot­tom half, and Orlando Miller hit an HBI single. Greg McMichael relieved with two on and two outs and fanned Derrick May for his first save. 
Drabek allowed three runs and nine hits in six innings. 
Hyan Klesko's franchise record 1Oth home run for the month of April gave the Braves a 3-0 lead in the second against Doug Drabek. Klesko, who has four homers and 10 HBis in his last 12 games, connected on a 3-2 pitch following singles by McGriff and David Justice. 
Miller's fourth homer closed the gap to 3-1 in the third. Smoltz then retired 10 of the next 11 hitters before Jeff Bagwell led off the seventh with a double. took third on Derek Bell's infield out and came home on Rick Wilkins' ground­out. 
Houston tie the score in the eighth when John Cangelosi walked, took second on Miller's single and scored on a single by pinch-hitter James Mouton. 
Attendance was 17,795, leav­ing Houston with an average of 21,7 48 after 13 home dates. Astros owner Drayton McLane has threatened to move the team unless attendance improves substantially from last year's average of 19,208. 
Blue Jays 9 Brewers 8 
TORONTO 

Carlos Delgado's two-out sin­gle in the bottom of the ninth Tuesday night gave the Toronto Blue Jays a 9-8 win over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Delgado went 4-for-5 with three HBis and Ed Sprague hit two home runs for the Blue Jays, who won for just the sec­ond time in six games. 
Joe Carter got his 1,200th career RBI for Toronto. 
In the ninth, Otis Nixon reached on a one-out single off Marshall Boze (0-1) and stole second. He took third on a groundout defore Delgado col­lected his first career four-hit game with a single to center. 
Tim Crabtree (1-1) pitched two hitless innings for the win. 
Carter tied it 8-8 in the eighth with an HBI single, scoring Domingo Cedeno who had tripled. Carter has driven in at least 100 runs the last six sea­sons. 
Trailing 7-4, the Brewers scored four runs in the seventh to take an 8-7 lead. Greg Vaughn brought in the first run with an infield single, and scored on John Jaha's double. 
Jose Valentin hit a two-run homer in the seventh, his third, off Tony Castillo to give the Brewers an 8-7 lead. It was Valentin's first career homer batting right-handed. The switch hitter had hit 25 homers left-handed before the shot. 
Sprague and John Olerud hit back-to-hack homers in the fifth inning as the Blue Jays took a 7-4 lead. Sprague's homer was his ninth and third in the last two games. Olerud's fifth homer was the first time Toronto had hit consecutive homers this season. 
A run-scoring double by Valentin and HBI singles by Matt Mieske and Mike Metheny put the Brewers up 3-0 in the second. Mark Loretto's run­scoring single in the fourth made it 4-0. 
Sprague led off Toronto's five-run fourth inning with a .­homer off Milwaukee starter Ben McDonald. 

Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity 
would like to thank the following donors for supporting the ND Habitat house at 904 Sorin Avenue: 
ABC Supply Co. Alcon Building Products American Seamless Gutters Aurora Cabinet~ 
G. W. Berkheimer Co. John Boettcher Sewer & 
Excavating Co. Borkholder Trusses Breman Glass Burger King 
C.E. Lee Casteel Construction Doors Plus of Elkhart Eckler-Lahey Lumber Co. Four Winds Custom Heating & 
Air Conditioning Gibson-Lewis Inc. 
H.G. Christman Construction 
International Union of Bricklayers & Allied Craftsman (Local No. 18) Joy's John Kingman National LaPlace Electric Co. Mac Trench Plumbing McDonald's Mid City Supply ND Facilities Operation Niezgodski Plumbing Northeast Neighborhood Pella Windows Rose Fuel and Materials Jack Small Excavation South Bend Waterworks St. Joseph County Habitat Superior Waste Tcnniguard Termite and 
Pest Protection Transit Mix 

Thank you for making this year's proJect a success! 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
Iori-•sigh• the last issue of the observ­You teach best what you most Jiliian­er... for this year that is. thanks for every­need to learn.. Many thanks for your contributions to the lvonne, Kate, Lisa, Anne, Steph and Kim: 
Classified 
thing (especially all the answering machine if you doubt, this just ask any Tuesday Night Club. You were with us in it's been fun. till next year, my friends ..... 
continued from page 20 
Do you need a part-time job (B-12 hours/week) for the '96-'97 academic year? THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center will be hiring one or two Notre Dame students for next academic year. Ideally, we are looking for students who will be sophomores or juniors. In addi­tion, up to 40 hours per week will be avail­able for the first two weeks before each semester begins, so it would be helpful if the applicant lives in the Michiana area or will be living off-campus. Apply in person at THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center TODAY!!! 
FOR SALE: KEGERATORII Holds 3 kegs!! Industrial -Once used at Busch Stadium Ill 
call 239-8922 right away! 

GAMBLERS­
messages) it's been .... fun. really. it has. -maureen 
put down the sharp pointy paperweight. 
chris putt ... chris putt...chris putt ... 
.....L··o··v··E····· 

TO ALL OUR BELOVED FRIENDS: ONE FAREWELL WISH AS WE EMBARK UPON OUR SOUL SEARCHING JOURNEYS, YOU WILL BE IN OUR THOUGHTS & PRAYERS NOW AND FOREVER, GOD BLESS YOU ALL. .. LOVE MEAGHAN MORAN CLARE MURPHY 
Hey Pee Wee-play Sloopy one more time for the boys of 7 A! 
ChEg Class of '96 May your life be like a charmin' roll of toilet paper... long and useful 

Jay Mathematica sucks!! I why use it.. 
T.A. 

to the boy who won't call: i didn't want to talk to you anyway. 
•••QUIGTOSTAL 111••• July 13-Be There!!! 
•••QUIGTOSTAL JJI*•• July 13 -Be There! II 
COO-COO-KA-CHOO 

Gamblers-you're last days in PW, don't cry too hard! --JAW 
Casi Jones­YOu'd better watch your speed! love your fav gamblers 

Casi Jones-We'll always be missing ul And we'll be drinking a PBR 4 u on Mondays next yr! love gamblers 
4S BA's ... what a year. guess that's all there is to say ... 
spirit. It wasn't the same without you. Next year we'll expand our horizons even more. 
Hi Dougy Fresh!! 

---DOS KLOSKAS --­Congrats on Bookstore Champions! You guys Rock! 
Good job, Jeff, Mike, Dan, Pete and Bert! 
Sarah Jane-no more Berzail!! love gamblers 

Boy do I love Mamoses in the morning! 
HELP FIND A CURE FOR LEUKEMIA. Becky Deitle and Jen Farthing are running a marathon to help raise money to find a cure for this disease. Any and all donations are welcomed for ths worthy cause. For more info or to donate call284-5169. 
Becky-believe it or not, we're almost done, and everyone else can basically well, you know what they can do. 
Matt loves Big Butt, Ryno loves little Busch 
Iori 

HEY BUTTHEADSI Quit throwing your cigarette butts all over the quad. You're making my campus look dirty. 
Jeff. Don't forget you jockstrap. Love, Ken 

Right now, I'm lying in the sun, drinking by the pool. Later, I'm going to be gambling. And, no, I'm not splitting my winnings with you. 
Losing the membership has more privi­leges, but just don't forget to cancel your card ......... 
Dante Allighieri -what a writer. what was Beatrice thinking??? 
Hey, Rick! Got 20 minutes? I want to ask you a couple questions! And can I borrow your desk? 
a drinker's toast! 
Here's to the (well I don't really need to continue to I? we'll always know the answer!) 
LOVE JAW 

A Jetta is a kool carl A Neon is a kool car tool! Kool people drive kool cars ... 
But still the word "Volkswagen" is pretty crummy ... 
P.S. A Sentra is a cool car Hiteshu 
Is that garlic sauce... or something else??? 
EXAM SPECIALS Picante outperforms caffeine Munchies & Drinkies Book in our booths! CASA ROMA Mexican-Italian Restaurant On Ironwood by Nick's Patio till 11 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 
Say "quince" and get 15% off above. 
_;,.. 
regina 4S: thanks for everything. it's been a great year, and you all made our floor home. have a fabulous summer! 
rlsVphil first semester tandemers: hope your summer is "pie in the sky when you die." be judgemental as hell and have fun! 
MARCY FORGEY: Good luck next year in Madagascar! Love, The Piccolos 
Updated Information on Arts and Letters Fall1996 Course Offerings 
New sections of THEO 200 are being established. Check the Web (http: I I www.nd.eduI -ndregIregistration.html) for darting availability or call 631-7811 for information. (Note: Web listings are updated daily). 
ALL Art History courses will satisfy the Fine Arts Requirement. The list on Page 84 in the Fall1996 Dart Book is incomplete. 

s~t 
~,4~ ~r~~ 
s~go~ 
'J::a,ra 8MHU 
{JuUe g'4JUde 
fle44«4 ~ ~g'e>U ~g'~ ~ g'e'a4m'i 
4«1r4 g'~ 
11tatu, etau g'~f<.U4 ~~ 
~~ 4«1r4~ 
~i?lud ~~ 7Me44~ 
~~ ~~ 
~~et«u ~~ ~ea-­
H#te "JJta,ue ~ ~e~
.... 
&.~~ 
'De"'AUU4 ~ ~~ ~~ 
~'Dewe.t 
'DU~He 'D~ 
'Da.«.idte 'De~ 
HUUUia 'DWiHe fl~ 'Df!fd 
~4«1r4 t;uue 'De~ 
~Zltek ?1tatu, 'D~ &iteeH-'D~ rl114 ~ud4 &~ 
7~et4u&H6 
~&~ 

,4~ "JJta,ue "?uU4 
~"?~ ~4«1r4 "?~ 
fl~~ 

?1tatu, "?~ ~~(«,"?~ 
~~?utt 
rlHUI!f4 r~~ ~ ~~tJdUtJ ~&~tJdUtJ ~a«!UH~~~ ,4~ ~ 9a9UaiU 
~~ 
~~ 
'!)~~ 

~rl#Ute~ {JuUe "JJta,ue ~ 
~&u.ua,~ 
~"JJta,ue 9d4 
Se1441t-~~ 
g'~~~ 
'Datta.t ~ullt 
~~~ 

~~~ rlHHe~~~ 
74114&~~~ fl~ ,./~ ~tduj 
~ "JJta,ue ~~ 
fl~~~~ ~e~~~ ~~~~ 
fl~ ,./~Ute ~~ ~~1~ ~~ ~uuute~ ie4dette~ rli#Uf~ ~~~ fJdt rlHHe ~ rli#Uf &~ fl~ 7~~ ~~~ ~~~ s~ iee#Ue 'Aa~tte~ 'Ad4~ ri~'UI~~ r~~?lt. ~ s~~ ~~~ ~r~~~~ 
~-4td Pmut4~~ if!a.det ~de S4114 ~eaQ(tt ~~t:MI­
~144-rl~~~ s~~~ &~~ue4tk 7~?HaMa 
,4~~ 
fl~~ 
~~ 'PeWtida~ flutte~ s~~ 
~?leer/~ fluuute ~ ie~~ fl~~ 
~~ fl~~ 
~~ 
fl~~ 
e~ ?He'Dwae ~~ ~~ 
s~~ fl~'Jtdt44 
S4!r44~ 
~~ ~4«1r4 ~­
fl~()~ s~~ 
~{4()'~ ~ "JJta,ue tJtu Se1441t-~ flttt.P~ fl~ PeltieaHe 
~p~ ~ Pedtel, ~7~Pueu ~p~ ~p~ 
fl~P~ 
~~p~ 
~ Peteu 
'J::a,ra Padd 
~if!~ 
fl~ ietJad ~iecW. ~ie~ 
~ ieetttt, 
~ie~ 
~~ie~ ~4«1r4 ie~ 
rlllj4'ie~j 
~ie~ 
s~s~ 
'D~ScMd 
flutte~ ~s~ ~s~ 
'DtHaS~ 
~s~ 
&~S~ ~t44S~ 'Deituhe ~ ,4~~ 
~s~ 
~s~ fl~S~ 
s~s~ 
p~s~ 
S~'UI~ 7'U'«4 'U/~ ~'U!Wjd r/HUU«ia 7()~ S~-'9~ 7f/~ fJdt 7()~ 
go~ -v~'De>t44t 
~1'~ ~"t'tkut ~~ 

1()~~tWe & '8ea 1()~, 
~e~ 

~aae~ 

Wednesday, May l, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
.. 
I . ':

• Thank you 
ONE DAY ONLY! 
I 
l I

lj(J% Off Your Purchases* 
I 


egister To Win One Of II Several Prizes 
f 

MayiJST, From 9:00AM-5:00PM 
I 
I 
llt I ' I 
. I 

The Hammes 
l~frnl{E Di~.1'vlE BOOl<Srl'Ol{E "on the campus" 
Open Monday -Saturday 9 AM -5 PM 
*Fillll & Fillll processing, Health & Beauty iten1s, textbooks not included 
I I I I I I I I 
I -I 
I 
1 
I 
.­
~ 
r 
QUUS .• ­
...----------­
~ 
page 24 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Surprising Padres $25 million wasted on Gant? 
off to blistering start 
By BERNIE WILSON 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO Baseball under the sun is starting to be fun again. 
Almost as quickly as they de­generated into baseball's laughingstocks, the San Diego Padres have turned into fron­trunners in the NL West. 
And with every gravity-defy­ing defensive play by Ken Caminiti and Steve Finley, ev­ery deceptive offspeed offering from Bob Tewksbury and sink­ing fastball from Joey Hamilton, this pivotal season seems to get better. 
The Padres have been a con­fident bunch since spring train­ing, and have proved it by go­ing 17-9, tied with Montreal for the best start in the majors. That's better even than the 1984 club, the only one in fran­chise history to reach the World Series. San Diego has been in first place for 27 days, its longest run since a two­month stretch in 1985. 
"Two years ago, we came to the field and we'd hope we'd win," said catcher Brad Ausmus, who joined the club with pitcher Andy Ashby in the dismal 1993 season, when a salary purge led to a combined 171 losses in 1993-94. "The 
Classified 
continued from page 22 

Hey 228 .. .1et's get that middle room cleaned up. ok? roo bad we have so little time left ... things will never be the same! thanks for all the good times! and the mucci! see y'all in TC! 
hey crazy Annunciada hall girls­looking forward to senior week. now, remind me ...are we going to flip a coin to see who gets the bed, or did we already decide that I get the floor? Oh wait, it's all coming back to me now. I think I get the floor. Hopefully I won't know the differ­ence. 
HUST MAJORS-Two days until the paper is done and over with and then you can breathe easy. UNTIL next week, when you have only one paper due, along with journals and two writ· ten exams. So much for a utopia. Good luck, kids. 
-, utopia cannot exist during finals week. 
It's NOT MY PROBLEM! 
Beatrice, 
What were you thinking? I too pose that very question. Although I see you, I dare not come closer. So as passion is your gale, I am but blown away, only to strive for another day, dying to glimpse all of the beautiful things. 
Your Guide 

why doesn't every guy want ellen? I just don't understand 
B­it's been great sleeping with you! 
1don't know, That's the one question that's been asked throughout the ages. 
quell 
More copies of The Four Food Groups Book will become available at Lafortume and the Bookstore at the end of the week 
• Vintage Levis 

thing is now, we know we can win when we come to the field." 
Ausmus doesn't care if the rest of baseball is surprised with San Diego's fast start. 
"The eyes are starting to open, but if they stay shut, fine," Ausmus said. "We'll take some people by surprise. That doesn't bother us." 
San Diego led San Francisco by 3 1/2 games going into Tuesday night's game with the Giants. 
While previous owner Tom Werner used to issue one-way tickets out of town to his star players, John Moores and Larry Lucchino started rebuild­ing the club just one week after buying it in December 1994. A 12-player trade with Houston got them third baseman Caminiti, center fielder Finley and shortstop Andujar Cedeno. 
The next step was adding left fielder-leadoff batter Rickey Henderson, first baseman Wally Joyner and Tewksbury after last season's 70-7 4 finish. The result is one of the best­rounded teams in the majors. 
The pitching staff, anchored by Ashby (3-1), Hamilton (5-1) and Tewksbury (3-0), has the third-lowest earned-run aver­age in the big leagues. 

Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS 
The St. Louis Cardinals' $25 million man isn't giving much of a return on the investment right now. 
Cleanup hitter Ron Gant, who signed a five-year free-agent deal last December, is in a 5­for-43 tailspin that has his bat­ting average down to .214. Everybody is waiting for the explosion. 
Manager Tony La Russa, at least outwardly, has a patient attitude. 
"This is April," La Russa said. "If he was a rookie strug­gling, maybe it'd be different. 
"This guy has an established track record. So you just make sure he's healthy and getting the work he needs, and the pro­duction will be there." 
Braves manager Bobby Cox, who managed Gant for four seasons, also said it's just a matter of time. 
."If you're going to give any­body a contract like that, Ronnie Gant is the perfect guy to give it to," Cox said. "He gives you everything he's got. 
"He's the type of guy who's going to carry you, but he's like anybody else. There are going to be periods where he's not going to get any hits." 
The just-completed series against Atlanta was one such example. Gant was 1-for-10 
THE POINTE 

AT SAINT JOSEPH 
307 East LaSalle South Bend, Indiana 46617 (219) 287-2684 
Grad students and professors-
Come live in the center of it all. 
Great location close to campus. 
call Tami NOW to lease your new apartment home! 
office hours:  9:00am to 6:00pm  Mon.-Fri.  
lO:OOam to 5:00pm  Saturday  
closed  Sunday  

• Silver Rings & Bracelets 
with four strikeouts, and fanned looking against Mark Wohlers with runners on sec­ond and third to end the eighth inning in a 4-1 loss to Atlanta Monday night. The Cardinals got swept in three games. 
Gant, who had 29 home runs and 88 RBis last year for Cincinnati, said he's typically a slow starter. At least this year he's got a little cushion after a nice start, with the slump tak­ing 103 points off his average. 
"It usually comes around and I know it will," said Gant, a .197 career hitter in April. "The hardest thing is to stay positive, but I've been around long enough that I'm not going to get my head down. 
''I'm going to keep battling. Even Tony Gwynn goes 0-for­4." 
Gant said perhaps he's been trying to hard to produce for the Cardinals, who are ex­pected to contend for a postsea­son spot but were two games under .500 entering Tuesday night's game at Chicago. 
"I was real aggressive at the start of the year, but I think I got to the point where I was trying to do too much and it started taking its toll," Gant said. "Now I'm trying to just relax and let my natural talent flow." 
He's also taking extra batting practice, although that has nothing to do with the slump. 
"Oh yeah, I do that all the time," Gant said. "If I'm hitting well, I still come in and get ex­tra hacks just to keep it going. You shouldn't change anything if you're going good or bad." 
One thing that is not a factor, Gant said, is his contract. 
"The money I'm getting now is for stuff I did in the past," he said. "I was rewarded well for the career I've had and I'm not going to think about it." 

4121 SOUTH MICHIGAN...SOUTH BEND 219/291-9200 
5327 NORTH GRAPE ROAD...MISHAWAKA 219/277-8121­
CONCORD MALL ENTRANCE...ELKHART
\i •Drop Necklaces • Hemp Chokers 
10% off 

219/875-8511
with Student
~ THE · Toe Rings • Unique Dresses 
I.D. 

1912 S. 11th (U.S. 31133)
~STYLE 

2 'h miles north of ~tate line Hours: 
Layaway& 

Belle Plaza. Niles M-F 10.7 Sat. 1o-6
CO., INC. 

Alterations Available 
687-9123 Closed Sunday 
-l 
~ 
Wednesday, May I, 1996 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
l 
~~=~~~~~========~~~~~~~~-~ 
1 
I 
l
To the students of 
~ 
' 
Notre Datne, 
Thank you for a great Saturday in your participa-­tion in the <Ek~~..~~ 
Obstacle Course 
We had a lot of fun being there! 

• • ~--· ..----·---·-·-... ---·----.. ""··--·--1111' •-·-~r·J"o~ ...........·~ ......-6' .....~,..rtiJ·"'-..... _... 


-.--~-----------------~~--~-~ 
~~-~~--~~--------­
------~-­
Wednesday, May 1, 1996

page 26 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NBA 
Rockets head home Orlando finishes pesky Pistons 
' 
' 
I 
with 2-1 series lead 
By MICHAEL A. LUTZ Peeler made two 3-pointers 
down the stretch and Eddie 
Jones scored the final Lakers' 
HOUSTON basket with 33 seconds remain­
llakeem Olajuwon scored 30 ing, but the Rockets made just points and the Houston Rockets enough free throws to stay used a late 13-0 run to beat the ahead. 
Los Angeles Lakers 104-98 Clyde Drexler missed three Tuesday night for a 2-1 lead in free throws and Sam Cassell their opening-round playoff missed one for Houston in the series. final 37 seconds. 
Olajuwon, who fouled out There were 16 lead changes with 10 minutes left in the in the first three quarters of the Rockets' loss in Game 2. stayed seesaw game. 
out of foul trouble in Game 3, Houston took an 80-72 lead committing only two personals. on a 3-pointer by Mario Elie He scored six points during with 4.1 seconds left in the Houston's decisive run in the third quarter, but Vlade Divac 
fourth quarter Tuesday night, countered with his own 3­when the Lakers went scoreless pointer at the buzzer to make it for 6 minutes and 20 seconds. 80-75 going into the final peri­
The Rockets can wrap up the od. 
best-of-5 series with a victory Trailing by six after the first Thursday night at the Summit. quarter, the Lakers opened the Reserve Sedale Threatt second period with a 7-0 run scored 10 straight points for before the Rockets fought back. the Lakers, helping them take Horry's 3-pointer with 1:04 an 89-86 lead with 8:22 left in left in the half gave the Rockets 
Associated Press 
By HARRY ATKINS 
Associated Press 

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. 
Anfernee Hardaway scored 15 of his 24 points in the third quarter Tuesday night, leading Orlando to a 101-98 victory over Detroit and a three-game sweep of their opening-round playoff series. 
Shaquille O'Neal went to the bench with his fourth personal foul and the Magic leading 57­55 with 9:18 left in the third quarter. But Orlando, led by Hardaway's six points, went on a 16-6 run over the next six minutes and led by 11 at the end of the period. 
"When Shaq went out, Penny said he wanted the ball and he was taking over," Orlando's Dennis Scott said. "And that's exactly what we let him do, be­cause we knew he would do it." 
The Pistons' frustration 
peaked when coach Doug 
Collins, who guided the team to 
46 wins in the regular season, 
was ejected after drawing his 
second technical foul with 2.4 
seconds remaining in the third 
quarter. 


Allan Houston scored 33 
points for the Pistons. His 3­
pointer pulled the Pistons within 
one point with 8.3 seconds left 
in the game, but Nick Anderson 
then made two free throws for 
Orlando. 

Detroit had a chance to tie in 
the closing seconds. but Houston 
missed a 3-pointer. The Pistons 
got the rebound but Joe 
Dumars' shot was blocked at the 
buzzer. 

The Magic will meet the win­
ner of the Atlanta-Indiana series in the second round. 
It was the first playoff sweep in Orlando's seven-year history. The Pistons have been swept three times, the last coming at the hands of the Chicago Bulls in the 1991 Eastern Conference finals. 
In each game, the Magic put the Pistons away with a surge in the third quarter. Game 1 was tied at the half and the Magic led by three at halftime of Game 2. 
Orlando outscored Detroit 30­22 in the third quarter of Game 3 and outscored the Pistons by a combined 87-58 in the third quarters of the series. 
Grant Hill's three-point play had closed the gap to 97-95 with 36 seconds remaining. On the Magic's next possession, Hardaway put up a shot that appeared to miss the rim as the shot clock expired. 
But the officials ruled the ball 
did touch the rim, and thus al­lowed Horace Grant's putback for a 99-95 lead with 11.2 sec­onds remaining. 
Without that basket. Houston's 3-pointer over Hardaway with 
8.3 seconds remaining would have give the Pistons their first lead of the second half. 
Anderson finished with 22 points for Orlando. Scott had 18, Grant 16 and O'Neal, who drew his fifth personal with 8:33 remaining, had 13. 
Hill scored 17 for Detroit, while Dumars and Otis Thorpe each had 15. 
The Magic took a 32-22 lead on Scott's 3-pointer with 10:47 to play in the second quarter. 
But Dumars, the only player left from the Pistons' champi­onship years of 1989 and 1990, brought Detroit back. Dumars had three baskets and four as­sists in an 18-7 burst in which Detroit grabbed a 40-39 lead on Dumars' jumper with 4:31left in the half. 
Happy 21st Birthday Joanie! 
"It~ Miller Time!" 

the game. But then the Lakers went cold and the Rockets got hot. 
Houston's Robert Horry sank a 3-pointer to it with 8:06 re­maining, starting the 13-0 run that put the Rockets ahead 99­
89. The Lakers didn't score again until Anthony Peeler hit a 3-pointer with 2:02 left. 
Elden Campbell led the Lakers with 18 points, while Cedric Ceballos and Eddie Jones each scored 16. 
Magic Johnson, so effective in Saturday's victory, had five points and nine assists for the Lakers. 
a 56-54 lead. 
If YOU see SPOrts haPPenine. call The Observer at 1-4543 
, 
OVER STUDY SPACE 
Announcing extended hours and additional accommodations for finals: 
1st floor of LaFortune open 24 hours May 4,8 Library open 24 hours May 2,10 O'Shag and Hayes, Healy open 'til 1 AM May 2,5 
Faculty Dining Hall, 2ND floor of SDH open every night 'til 3 AM 
brought to you by Student Senate 


Wednesday, May l, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 27 
• KENTUCKY DERBY • NBA 
Unbridled's Song's future uncertain New York's Mason 
Associated l'ress 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. 

While Unbridled's Song re­mainnd in the Kentucky Derby picture Tuesday, the colt might not start in the race. 
"If he makes as much im­provenwnt in 24 hours as he did from last night to today, I think you'll see him Saturday," trainer .lim Hyerson said about the early Derby favorite, who has a left front hoof and heel problem. "It's a day-by-day thing." 
Entries must be made by 5 
p.m. EDT Wednesday, with post-position draw to be held at about 6:15 p.m. 
The I>nrby betting favorite eould lmnmw Skip Away, win­rwr of the Blue Grass Stakes on April 1:J at Krwrwland. 
Hynrson revr~alnd on Monday that Unbridled's Song had a quartr~r crack (a small hoof erar~kl and a luwl cut that were diseoverrHl after his victory in tl(n Wood Memorial at Aqueduct -the same day as tlw Blun (;rass. 
Tlw gray eolt has been wear­ing a bar shoe that krH~ps the 
Old Mill Stora 
400 S. WEST STREET. 
MISHAWAKA 
259-931 I 
sizes sxs to 1ox25 Now available, recently expanded 
Christmas in April USA Notre Dame Family Work Camp 



F 
.· 
.. 

rom June 23-28,1996, an alternative vacation, a Christmas in April 
USA-Notre Dame Family Work Camp, will be offered by the Alumni 
Community Service Program in collaboration with local South Bend 
neighborhood associations. Family generations can collectively be involved in a home repair project near campus in the Northeast neighborhood. Lodging, meals, _reflective and recreational activities will take place Q.Q campus through Alumm Family Hall. Alumni families will work side by side with our campus neighbors and join together for activities such as an opening picnic, a tour of the College Football Hall of Fame and a South Bend Silver Hawks baseball 
game. 

Little, if any, repair skills are needed-just a desire to help our campus neighbors! 
Cost: $90 per person for the week­family participation encouraged. 

For more information, please call Dick Dornbos, . 
Coordinator of Special Projects, Alumni .J 
Community Service Program at 219-631-8467 
Community Service 


NENC
ENTER @
COUNCIL. INC 

N~IN~ghbomood 
Holy Cross Care Services 
Council, Inc. 

-.,..,..,..,....______._·­
fj_. 1,..,,.~~~, efj·swtzli.~ ..;.·-.~rl"'""","._.t"~$~.r."!"•..I..II..I".rlr•••aesaua I ..._....,.,.Jf_._..,.,,..,_.~~..,..,..,.......;wavbJ4 ..J Z f 0 llilii~lfM W'.lll "*~·• 
heel from hitting the ground. 
The shoe was removed Monday and the foot was soaked, and a new shoe was put on Tuesday morning. The new shoe is called a Z-bar, which, Hyerson said, enables the injured heel to be treated more easily. 
"Well, it seems like there was some aggravation," Hyerson said in explaining why the shoe was changed and the foot soaked. "He's a little ten­der in one area. That's why we changed the shoe. I don't know whether you want to call it an infection." 
Hyerson did say Unbridled's Song was being treated with antibiotics. but he said the colt would have no problem pass­ing a postrace test. 
Unbridled's Song went to the Churchill Downs track at 9:30 
a.m. and walked and jogged with a lead pony. 
"I'm happy the way he went," Hyerson said. ''I'm happy the way he cooled out. We have four days and if everything goes well, he'll run. I'm going to look at it positive­ly until I can't anymore." 
Ryerson said he might breeze Unbridled's Song on Thursday, but that the colt could go into the race without another workout. 
Skip Away, impressive in winning the Blue Grass by six lengths, worked five-eighths of a mile Monday in 1:00 2-5. 
''I feel very confident," said Sonny !line, who trains Skip Away, also a gray colt, for his wife Carolyn. "If he stays as he is, he's got a good chance." 
"I thought that horse was awesome in the Blue Grass," trainer Hon McNally, who will start Matty G, said of Skip Away. "I sort of think he's the horse to beat off that race." 
Two other Derby trainers, however, doubt Skip Away can repeat his Blue Grass perfor­mance. 
"As a trainer, I've never had a horse run like that and come back and duplicate it in his next race," said Bob Baffert, trainer of Santa Anita Derby winner Cavonnier and Semoran. "If he does, he (Hine) has a Triple Crown win­ner." 
"I don't think you want your horse to run a career race in the race before the Derby," said D. Wayne Lukas. who will saddle a record five horses for the Derby. "Sometimes you get it whether you want it or not. Sonny's horse did it." 
Lukas will saddle Editor's Note, Grindstone, Honour and Glory, Prince of Thieves and Victory Speech. 
None will be going into the Derby off a victory, but, Lukas said, "I think I've got a solid group of horses." 
Should one of them win, Lukas would extend his un­precedented string of victories in Triple Crown races to six. 
It appears the first $1 million Derby will have the limit of 20 starters, should Unbridled's Song stay in the field. 
accused of assault 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 

Three patrons of the China Club are charging in a $54 mil­lion lawsuit that they were beaten and injured in the nightclub last summer by New York Knicks forward Anthony Mason and three club employ­ees. 
Alice Kupferberg, lawyer for the plaintiffs, said one of her clients was cut just under his left eye with a broken cham­pagne bottle and another. a woman who was celebrating her 30th birthday, was pushed over a table. 
Kupferberg said the fracas began with arguing, shoving and hitting at Mason's table in the club on the Upper West Side around 3:45 a.m. on July 25, 1995. She said her clients, part of a party of eight, tried to leave when the melee spilled over to their table. 
Club bouncers rushed into the area to investigate, Kupferberg said, and seeing the group trying to flee, roughed them up. She said Mason, 30, joined the bouncers in assaulting members of the group, including her clients. 
Kupferberg said police ar­rested several members of her clients' group but ignored their complaints against Mason and demeaned them with ethnic slurs. She said they are of Albanian descent and live in Yonkers. 
The suit was filed Monday in Manhattan's State Supreme Court on behalf of Ali Zherka, 28, his sister, Hatixha "Gigi" Zherka, 30, and their friend, Hasan Kurti, 24. It was Gigi Zherka's birthday the group was celebrating and Kurti was the person whose face was 
1 
~ . 
2 t~~~::&:x 
5~.l!~,!ng to a new City? E 
~ i 
~ 0 
~ Career and Placement can r ~ help you find other ~ 
~ 5
~ N.D. Grads going to the same ~ &2 city. ~ 
0 z 
~ z Make sure to stop by and sign up before r0 ~ Graduation! :
0 z 
i 0 ~ We'll send you an updated list before you r ~ leave. ~ 
2 z 
z 0 
~ ~ 
i.SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENIORS ... SENI01K;UN!!!!!C irr:w1~~ 
slashed, Kupferberg said. 
The suit names Mason, the club, two bouncers and a maitre d' as defendants. Each plaintiff is seeking $6 million from Mason and $12 million from the club and its three employees. 
Michael Barrett, general manager of the China Club said, "This is what we call in the business a 'copycat' law­suit." Barrett was referring to a suit threatened by Darlene Bonilla, 25, who said Mason had hit her while she was in the same club on April 15. 
"He did absolutely nothing to her," Barrett said. As for the July 1995 incident, "We had nothing to do with these Albanians," he said. "When people are fighting we try to separate them and get them out of the club." 
Mason's agent, Don Cronson, would not comment on the law­suit's specifics because he had not seen the papers. But he, too, called it "a copycat suit, just another instance of some­body trying to get a piece of the action." 
Knicks spokesman Josh Rosenfeld said he had no com­ment. 
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 


You Did It! 
I 
University of Kansas Sehool of Phaa•tnaey wants yo11••• 
'fiffonfJ 
Strohuaeye·r 
:
5 

.. 
I 
j 
I 
page 28 
Softball 
continued from page 36 
weekend." 
The Irish seem to have got­ten over the injury bug that had infected the team as of late. Pitcher Joy Battersby threw well in her last game, and Miller says she is doing well and should pitch in the tournament. Also, Andrea Kollar played for the first time in three weeks last weekend against Seton Hall. Kollar will be playing with a mask to pro­tect her face that was hit dur­ing practice and had a little trouble adjusting to the new device. However, the team's biggest loss, Terri Kobata, will not be able to pitch in the tournament this weekend. Miller hopes to have her for the NCAA regionals if the Irish make it that far. 
In recent weeks both the of­fense and defense have been stellar. Stepping in for Kobata has been freshman Angela Bessolo and sophomore Kelly Nichols. Bessolo was named Big East Pitcher of the Week for the second time this season a few weeks ago for a no-hitter she tossed and was nearly dominating against Seton Hall. She had 12 strikeouts and two wins over the duration of the two doubleheaders against the Pirates. Nichols has filled in whereever she has been need­ed, whether as a reliever or as a starter. When Battersby could not pitch recently, Nichols stepped in and got a win. Against Seton Hall, Nichols pitched in every game, picking up two saves, a victo­ry, and allowed only one hit. 
Recently, the Irish bats have taken a while to warm up. When the Irish do start heat­ing up howver, they strike with fearsome efficiency, as evi­denced by the team's nine run fourth inning against Seton Hall. Shortstop Meghan Murray and center field Jennifer Giampaolo are the consistent hitters in the order; both have hit near .400 in nealry every weekend week­end. Last weekend, Kara McMahon and Katie Marten stepped up offensively, and Kelly Rowe had the winning runs against Ohio State and Villanova. 
.. 
The Irish face the Providence Friars in the first round of the tournament. The Friars post­ed a below average 9-11 record in the conference and 
McCaffery headlines the rota­tion and outfielder Karin Muller and Erin Layton pro­vide the punch for the team. 
"We've hit the ball well and play good defense," said Connecticut coach Karen Mullins. "We had two good games (against Notre Dame) but hurt ourselves with errors. We will need a strong pitching effort and to play tough to make it to the championship." 
Miller had similar sentiments when it came to the perinnial Big East power, "They are good hitters and play good defense. They can definitely make things happen." 
The Huskies strength, hit­ting, could spell doom for the Irish who are missing Kobata. The Irish, however, swept the Huskies when they visited South Bend April 20. 
The lone Big East team to beat the Irish this season, Villanova Wildcats, 10-8 with conference record, also could challenge the Irish for the title. The Wildcats will face Connecticut in the other game of the tournament -the winner of which plays the Notre Dame-Providence winner. Villanova· has one of the top pitchers in the conference in Tina Sabanus, who was roughed up by Notre Dame. Kim Bullock and Kelly Sparks provide offense for the team. 
BOSTON 

Jill Albanese Marina Alkidas Cara F. Marrone 
CHICAGO 

Ann Marie Achille Brigid M. Carroll Jennifer L. Griffiths Laura L Kroner joseph V. O'Malley Kevin G. Reichart 
CINCINNATI Nicholas C. Kuechly 
CLEVELAND 

Brian]. Foley Brian M. Spellacy 
DALLAS Kristin M. Grothoff Lynn M. Bauwens 
DENVER 

Alexandra]. Mensch 
DETROIT William Jacuindo 
--------------~---------------. 
The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
1996 BIG EAST Softball Standings 
BIG EAST OVERALL 
NORTH w L PCT w L T PCT. Connecticut 16 4 .800 29 18 0 .617 Providence 9 11 .450 21 18 1 .544 Boston College 9 11 .450 27 19 0 .587 St. John's 1 19 .050 4 34 0 .105 
SOUTH w L PCT. w L T PCT. Notre Dame 19 1 .950 45 12 0 .789 Villanova 10 8 .555 27 17 0 .614
.,o

Rutgers 10 10 .500 25 17 .595 hi Seton Hall 4 14 .222 13 25 0 .342

"·:fk 
1996 Big EAST Softball Championship Schedule Saturday, May 4 
10:00 A.M. Game co_nnecticdi~d~_) vs. Villanova (2S) Noon Game2 Notre Dame (1 S) vs. Providence (2N) 2:00P.M. Game3 Winner Game 1 vs. Winner Game 2 4:00P.M. Game4 Loser Game 1 vs. Loser Game 2 

Sunday, May 5  
10:00A.M.  Game5  Loser Game 3 vs. Winner Game 4  
Noon  Game6  Winner Game 3 vs. Winner Game 5  
2:00P.M.  Game7  Same Teams as Game 6 if necessary  
N =North  S =South  

LOS ANGELES 

Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P 
Bar-tholomew C. Bogust Congratulates Sean]. Tully 
MIAMI 
Maria Panyi 
MILWAUKEE

NOTRE DAME'S 
Aaron S. Schielke 
NEW YORK

Class of 1996 
Patrick E. Connors 
PHILADELPHIA

And is proud to welcome 
Paul St.]. Stephen 

the following graduates 
PmSBURGH 
William H. Belski

who will be joining our Firm. 
PORTLAND, MA Mary Beth L11Cc 
PORTLAND, OR Mindi R. Kalogera 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Patrick Burke Sharmien C. Swinton

C9QPei'S ICoopera A Lybrand L.L.P. WASHINGTON, D.C.
I&Lybrand a professional seiVices firm 
Aaron Villaruz NOT .JUST KNOWLEDGE. KNOW How.sM Michael Wong 
was not neccessarily the team 11................._._.............................................""""'""""'""""'""""'""'"'"""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""'"'"""""'""""'""'"'"""""'""""'=--""""'""""'""""'""""'""'"'"""""'""""'""""'""'"'"""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'""""'==j]
Miller anticapated facing. After the Seton Hall game, Miller talked about meeting the would-have-been host Boston College. Providence foiled the Eagles chances, tak­ing three out of four games to clinch the second spot in the North division. Sophomore catcher Erin Quaglia is the Friars' top bat. To complete the battery is star pitcher 
The procession will end at the 
junior Candi Erickson. 
On Wednesday, May 1, 1996
1 
Providence has a pretty deep ' Grotto with flowers for Our 
rotation with junior Amy: meet at the Grotto at 3:30PM. 
Kvilhaug, one of Big East' Blessed Mother and
--
earned run average leaders. Along with strong pitching, 
Marian hymns. 
near flawless fielding rounds out the team's forte-defense. Offensively, the team is not as strong as Connecticut and Villanova. 
The toughest competition in 
the double-elimination tourna­Join the Children of Mary and Knights of the 
ment should come from the 
Connecticut Huskies, 16-4 in Immaculata for awalk around Saint Mary's Lake,
the Big East. The Huskies 
have won six out of the last South Quad, and North Quad praying the rosary.
seven Big East tournaments
I 
and are looking for number
~ 
seven. UConn boasts both strong offense and a tough defense. Last year's Big East 
I 
All are welcome!
pitcher of the years, Bridgett 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~~~~~~~~====~~~ 

1
Wednesday, May I, 1996 j
The Observer· SPORTS page 29 
I 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEB.All t 
I
Twins crush K.C. with ten run fifth Marlins power past I 
is happy to announce that we have a few townhomes available for the 1996-97 school term! Due to under-estimations on our behalf, a select few
• 

These townhomes will not be available for long, so stop by the 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
1·11 0Turtle Creek Drive • 272-8124 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 

Marty Cordova's bases-loaded tripln highlighted a Hl-run fifth inning Tuesday night as the Minnesota Twins beat the Kansas City Hoyals 16-7 to lin­ish April with a winning record for the first time since 1987. 
Tlw Twins had just five hils in their doubh1-digit barrage, tak­ing advantage of five walks is­swJd by starter Julio Valera and Mike Magnante (0-1) as the Hoyals wasted their first three­honwr gamtJ of the season. 
Cordova, the 1995 AL Bookie of the Year, matched his career high with four HBls. Denny 
We're Cheap. 
And Easy. 
Why pay more for the "convenience" of on­campus shipping when Boxes Plus doesn't raise its year end prices and has free pick-up at your dorm or apartment? Boxes Plus can pack and ship anything. Cheaply and Easily. 
rE1Wl!1l 
You can also buy boxes & shipping materials at Boxes Plus. 
5622 Grape Rd. Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka 277-5555 
Turtle Creek Apartments 
I locking, playing his first game after being recalled from Class AAA on Monday, drove in a ca­reer-high three runs, including a two-run double in the fifth. 
Chuck Knoblauch was 3-for-4 with three HBis and three runs scored. The Twins had 16 hits, raising their AL-best team av­erage to .301. 
Dan Naulty (2-0) pitched 3 2­3 innings in relief of starter LaTroy Hawkins, giving up two hits and one run, the first earned run he has allowed in seven appearances. , 
The Twins, who finished April 13-12, take a winning record into May for only the third time since 1979. Minnesota, which rallied from a 5-0 deficit to beat Kansas City on Monday, now has beaten the Royals six straight games dating to last season. 
Leading 7-4 after home runs by Michael Tucker, Johnny Damon and Mike Macfarlane, Valera gave up a single and two walks to start the Twins' fifth. Magnante came on and gave up two singles and two walks before Hocking's two-run dou­ble. 
A walk to Paul Molitor loaded the bases, and Cordova fol­lowed with his first triple of the year. Cordova was safe at home with the 1Oth run of the inning when Magnante threw to the plate on Greg Myers' grounder. Magnante finally got out of the inning by retiring the next three hitters. 
The Twins added two more runs in the sixth. 
slumping Phillies 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 
It was the sort of offensive 
show that sells tickets, which 
the Florida Marlins need to do. 
Charles Johnson and Greg Colbrunn homered Tuesday to help baseball's weakest lineup overpower the Philadelphia Phillies 7-2. 
The crowd of 15,252 was the smallest ever for a game at Joe Robbie Stadium. Rain may have kept some fans away and delayed the start of the game for 12 minutes. 
Pat Rapp (1-3) pitched 8 1-3 innings and benefited from the rare run support. The Marlins rank last in the majors in runs scored and batting average. 
"They turned the bats on for me," Rapp said. "It wasn't a chink night, either. It was a 
HaPPY Birthday 
Fred! 
Les 
francais de NO. 
power night. Everything was 
hit hard." 
The Marlins didn't even need 
help from slugger Gary 
Sheffield, who has carried the 
offense this season. He went 1­
for-3 with a single and finished 
the month with 11 home runs, 
tying him with four other play­
ers for the major-league record 
for homers in April. 
"He's 27 years old," manager 
Rene Lachemann said. "He has 
a chance to break the record 
next year." 
Colbrunn hit a three-run 
homer, his third. Johnson hit a 
two-run homer and singled in a 
run, doubling his RBI total for 
the season. 
"For me personally, it's a big 
lift," Johnson said. "lt's good to 
be a part of the offense." 
Rapp allowed seven hits be­fore leaving after losing his shutout in the ninth when Jim Eisenreich hit a one-out HBI double. The right-hander struck out five, walked one and twice retired 1 0 in a row. 
"With the big lead, he went after the hitters," catcher Johnson said. "lie was more relaxed. He threw a lot of first­pitch strikes, and that made everything easier." 
Kevin Jordan had two hits for the Phillies, who had their win­ning streak stopped at five games. 
Following Eisenreich's hit, Jordan hit an RBI single and the Phillies loaded the bases against Terry Mathews. But Hobb Nen struck out Pete lncaviglia for his fourth save. 

t 
page 30 The Observer • SPORTS 
.lACROSSE
't ' I Irish prepare for season finale
I 
r This Saturday, Notre Dame horne victory of the season.
Notre Dame hosts Ohio State. Carle tallied 21 saves, his ca­~ "At this point, we're only reer-high, in the 12-4 win over ' I awaits invitation worried about Ohio State," Michigan State, demonstratingt claimed Corrigan. "We don't why many are touting him for ' to NCAA tourney want to go into the NCAAs with All-American honors. 
a loss, so we're concentrating Corrigan flatly states, "Alex
I 
By TIM MCCONN on Ohio State." is one of the best goalies in the
t 
country." ~ The Buckeyes may not pos­r A great coach once said sess one of the better records Moreover, the coach does not I about his team's future in the nation, or the league for hold back in his glowing as­J prospects, "This year we that matter, but Coach sessment of Keenan, who 
I knocked on the door. Next Corrigan acknowledges that scored a hat trick (3 goals) year we're gonna kick the son his team cannot allow for any against the Spartans.' kind of letdown in this game. "Jimmy is the classic mid­
Sports Writer 
of a***** in."
I 
This is the attitude the Notre "They are 4.-7, but this has fielder," stated Corrigan. "A ~ Dame lacrosse team (8-3) has been a year of great improve­guy like him is invaluable. He had all year. Their success in ment for their team," noted does so many things a good
I 
Corrigan. "A win here could rnidfielder can do. It's not how in which they defeated highly­make their season, so I'm ex­many points he scores that we touted Duke before finally suc­pecting them to be pretty ex­judge him by; it's the other
'I cumbing to eventual runner-up cited on Saturday." things he does, like passing 
Maryland, allowed the Irish to The Irish seniors enter this and creating shots for his taste a small portion of suc­game with extra motivation to teammates." cess. As a result, it gave the come away with a victory. It is Irish a goal for which to strive their last horne game and, So as Cade, Keenan, and the 
last year's NCAA tournament, 
all year. more importantly, if they win rest of the team prepare them­With the bids for this year's they will leave Notre Dame selves for their run through 
tournament to be awarded this with an undefeated record in the NCAA tournament, they r------------------------.. 
Sunday, Coach Kevin Corrigan Great Western Lacrosse clearly have a variety of spe-ICe and his eleventh-ranked Irish League action throughout the cial reasons to focus on this realize that getting into the duration of their careers. final game against the 
post-season action should not "[The seniors] have a chance Buckeyes. One, however, be a problem. to go four years without losing sticks out above the rest. a game in our league," said Said Corrigan, "We have a "We will be the team select­Corrigan. "That would be chance to go into the NCAAs ed from our league (Great something special." on a high note." 
Western Lacrosse League)," And begin to kick in that stated Corrigan. "We'll get the In order to aid the seniors in proverbial door. automatic bid." their final quest, two younger 
Their focus obviously does players have stepped to the NOTES: In order to encour­not just rest with being offered forefront. Goalie Alex Cade age fan support, the University a bid but with improving upon and rnidfielder Jimmy Keenan will be handing out "Stress 
last year's achievements. have raised their already Balls" to all students who at­
Before they can begin to con­phenomenal performances to a tend Saturday's game. The centrate on the post-season still higher level of play. In balls will help uptight students tournament, however, the Irish particular, against Michigan relax during their week of fi­
have one last regular season State last week, the two sopho­nals. game that they must tend to. mores led the team to its first 



~~00~©~£1!~@00 D£W 
MUSIC lALII 
$2.00 OFF ALL CDs and CASSETTES 

ONE DAY ONLY· Wednesday, May 1st
I I I phone: 63 1-63 16 
I 
store hours

The Hammes 
1\.tfon. -Sat.

non The Cam~US 11 
f 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
9 am-5 pm

I 
r 
Wedn"d'Y· M•y I, 1996 Tho Ob.omc • SPORTS p•go:--1 
~~============================~~~~~-=~~~----------------------------~~ 
• VOllEYBAll 
Tuttle lands job at Wisconsin 
surgery, Tuttle spent her se­nior year watching from the sidelines. 
"It was definitely a difficult experience," Tuttle comment­ed. "But once I found out I couldn't play, I knew that in some way I wanted to stick with volleyball, so I decided to look into coaching." 
Tuttle will be coaching under Kathy Cunningham. a 1990 graduate of Notre Dame who was the team's most valuable player her senior year, and who is also ranked among the program's top ten players in career hitting percentage, kills, total attempts, service aces, digs, and blocks. 
At UWM, Tuttle will be the first assistant to Cunningham, meaning that she will be in­volved in all of the major deci­sions that take place during the game. Tuttle cited this as a major factor in her decision to accept the job. 
"One of the main reasons I accepted the job is that I'll be able to get my hands on every­thing," Tuttle said. 
As a setter, Tuttle was in­volved in every play that took place on the noor, which will definitely contribute to her coaching ability. 
"Being a setter, you have to know what everyone is doing," Tuttle commented. "So from a strategic standpoint, I think it will definitely help that I was a setter." 
Brown agreed that her expe­rience as a setter will help her with c.oaching. 
"A setter needs to under­stand the whole offense," Brown added. "Shannon has always been a good student of the game. It's never been as if she's just standing there, but why she's standing there and what she needs to do make the play." 

Former Irish volleyball player Shannon Tuttle has accepted a job as an assistant coach at University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. The senior missed the entire 1995 season with an injury. 
STAYING AROUND "THE BEND" 
Need a job that fits your summer schedule? 
Memorial Home Care offers an excellent opportunity to fit work around your class load! 0 We're seeking energetic, responsible, caring people to join our KidKare child care staff. 0 As a KidKare registry staff member, you'd be "on call" 
to fill staffing assignments for 
area families in need ofchild care services. 0 
Evening or daytime, you accept assignments that meet your schedule! 0 Flexible hours. Great pay. 
Call 273-2273 to find out more! 
Memorial Home Care® 
17390 Dugdale Drive, South Bend, IN 46635 
• SAILING 
Irish sailors blow past competition 
Observer Staff Report 
This past weekend in Evanston, thtl wonwn's sailing team traveled to Northwestern University to compete in the Midwest Collegiate Sailing Association Championships. 
Tho team of co-captain Bridget Murray. Kathy Daly, and Lauren Mack finished second in thtl A-division, while Sttlphanio Doyle, Maggie Hurting, and Melanie Schroeder placed second overall in tho B-division. Each squad earned u berth in the 1996 Intercollegiate Women's Dinghy Nationals which will be held in Madison, Wisconsin in May. 
Dnspite tho choppy waves that engulfed Lake Michigan last Sunday, skippers Murray and Doyle engineered respec­tive second place finishes behind a solid Northwestern team. 
In addition, the weekend of April 20-21 saw two of the coed teams qualify for the Dinghy Championships to be held on May 11·12. From this event, only the top two go on to the nationals held in early June in Madison. Doyle and Brien Fox in the A-division along with Murray, Daly and Hit:k Ziegler in the B-divlsion each finished second at Marquette over that weekend. Winds gusting in excess of 20 mph provided for some high speed racing and many cap­sizes. The sailing expertise of each team, however, man­aged to overcome the condi· tions and win a spot at the Championships. 
Please Recycle the Obs~rver 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
Although confronted with a career-ending injury in her last season of volleyball at Notre Dame, senior Shannon Tuttle has overeome adversity and will reenter the active world of college volleyball. 
The difference is that this time, she will not be on the court. Instead, she will be on the sidelines as the assistant 
volleyball  coach  at  the  
University  of  Wiscon sin­ 
Milwaukee.  

"I think it's a great opportu­nity for Shannon," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. "It is a great position. Sitting in as first assistant, she'll get to experience everything hands on." 
Tuttle, a setter for the Irish, finished her career with 1,727 assists, making her third all time with career assists at Notre Dame-an especially im­pressive honor considering that she achieved such success over only three seasons. 
After lighting a shoulder in­jury that eventually required 
** Explore Your Options**
Accounting & Finance Students 
• 
Plan ahead for summer break 

• 
Gain valuable uhands..on" experience 

• 
Make important business contacts 


• Earn extra money Callus to find out about the many temporary positions we have available with TOP Chicagoland companies! To get started, all you have to do is call your local office and 
arrange for an interview. It's that easy! 
CASEY SERVICES, INC. Accounting and Finance Professionals Chicago 312-332-8367 N{NW Subs 847-253-9030 W/SW Subs 708-629-6666 
**Referral Bonus Program** 
Maybe you're not able to work temp, but know of someone who can. If they register during the months of May or June and the work 40 hours min. on a Casey assignment, we'll send you a check for $50.00! 
**Permanent Placement** 
If you are graduating, we also help place individuals on a permanent basis. Call now to sec what is available! 
Hey Seniors! 
Senior Class Cookoui; 
Celebrating our last day ofclasses·-ever! 
(for most of usJ anywayO Free hot dogs, hamburgers, pop, chips, music by Hace Frio &Tweak 
Fieldhouse Mall 
4:30PM-7:00PM 
Also: You can nominate any faculty/staff/administrator to be our class fellow, in LaFortune from I I :OOAM -I:OOPN), and the dining halls from 5:00PM -7:00PM on Wednesday ahd Thursday. 
l 
1 
l 
1 
~ 
l 
... , 
I 
I 
.. ~ 

----------~-------~ -------­
page 32 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
• SMC SoFTBALl • VARSITY SPORTS 
Belles successful on trip to Manchester 
By LORI GADDIS 
Sports Writer 

This time, it wasn't snow. it wasn't rain, and it wasn't hail that prevented the Saint Mary's softball team from completing a doubleheader. This time, it was night. The Belles travelled to Manchester University and completed almost 2 games, winning the first 10-7 in 11 innings and tying the second 2-2 before the game was called on account of darkness. 
The first game involved big innings for both teams. Manchester scored five runs in the second inning and the Belles answered with five of their own in the third. Sophomore Andrea Arena went 4-for-6 in the game, while senior Shannon Heise went 3-for-6, including a dou­ble. Senior Laura Richter helped the Belles by driving home three runs. 
The game went into 11 in­nings before the Belles finally executed at the plate and scored three runs to win it. Senior pitcher Maria Vogel al­lowed only nine hits during the 11 long innings of the game. Freshman outfielder Kelly Coughlin stated that the team 
Varsity 
continued from page 36 

highest number of points of all the club sports," Wadsworth noted. "Women's lacrosse is a sport that is experiencing tremendous growth right now." 
With lacrosse jumping to the varsity level in such a short span, the University now plans to begin an immediate search for a new women's coach. In light of the success of the men's lacrosse program which became a varsity sport in 1981, the department is opti­mistic. 
"We're hopeful that the tim­ing of adding that sport along with allocation of scholarships will give us a chance to become nationally competitive in a short period of time," Wadsworth explained. 
While lacrosse may be new on the Irish sports scene, the women's crew program was 
Are You Prepared? 
WeAre.  
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  small classes of 15 or fewer free caduceus software free extra help witth your instructor four computer-analyzed diagnostic exams independently verified score improvements guaranteed satisfaction  
THE PRINCETON REVIEW  

Classes begin June 8th for the August 17, 1996 test. 
(800) 2-REVIEW 
The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University or ETS. 
~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Itt.'' 1 '.'~.. ,·-::£;::-:-1~ -~' ;~ ~ ~i 'A A~. a~ i~ I
• 6 ~­
61 

capitalized on many scoring opportunities and kept up a great attitude throughout the duration of the game. 
"We were very intense throughout the whole game," said coach Maggie Killian. "We stayed with it and were able to come out on top after battling for 11 innings. It was a total team effort." 
The second game involved pitching like no other from Manchester. Senior Michelle Limb, Arena, and freshman Diane Andrews all got on base due to hit pitches in the second inning, giving the Belles a lead of 2-0. Senior Amy Misch was hit by a pitch later in the sixth inning. But Manchester an­swered in the sixth inning with two runs. 
This was to be the final score of the game. By the time the umpires had decided to call the game because of darkness, it was 7:45, extremely danger­ous conditions for a field with no lights. 
Most of the team felt as if the game should have been called earlier. It made for very diffi­cult conditions, as fielding a ball became increasingly more difficult as the game contin­ued. But overall, Saint Mary's was pleased with their perfor­mances for the day. 
estabhshed m 1973. the lnsh will join Miami, Syracuse, Villanova, Georgetown, and Rutgers in the Big East crew division. During the interim two years before entering the Big East, crew will continue to compete as a club sport while searching for a head coach. 
"It is our intention that we would hire a coach in the aca­demic year '97-'98," Wadsworth said. "That would give that coach a year to work with the club sport and assess what has to happen to move into varsity on a successful ba­sis." 
Among the 22 scholarships, eight will be allocated to wom­en's lacrosse over four years beginning in 1997-1998. Women's softball will receive four scholarships, while wom­en's soccer will get three, maximizing each sports' total of twelve. Women's golf will also receive one, raising their total to two. The final six will be divided among other women's programs, probably including crew. 
Women's varsity sports named 
By MEGAN McGRATH 
Senior Sports Scribe 

The wait is finally over for the Notre Dame women's lacrosse and crew clubs. After anxious months of waiting for the ath­letic department's decision, Tuesday the squads received the news they've been longing to hear: varsity status is theirs. 
"We're just unbelievably thrilled," lacrosse co-president Erin Breen said. "We had a feeling it was coming, but we're still very excited," echoes incoming crew president Joan Kelleher. 
Since the University announced that it would elevate two women's sports to varsity status. clubs like crew, lacrosse, synchronized swim­ming and water polo have been competing for the coveted spots. The athletic department reached its decision after receiving a proposal from the clubs, and by monitoring their level of commitment this sea­son. 
Despite being a relatively young organization, women's lacrosse has been the favorite from the outset and will be the first of the two to compete at the varsity level. In a 1994 Observer article, associate ath­letic director Missy Conboy cited lacrosse's increasing national popularity as a strong factor in its favor. As one of the first varsity programs in the reason, the University hopes to repeat its success with women's soccer, the last sport to be pro­moted. 
"Lacrosse has always been popular on the east coast, and now it is spreading across the nation," co-president Alison Martin said. While there are many varsity programs in the east, clubs have been elevated recently at Vanderbilt, Stanford and California-Davis. 
For the Notre Dame club, Tuesday's announcement is a fitting end to a most successful season. Sunday, the squad cap­tured the Women's Collegiate Lacrosse League championship, capping a 13-0 season. 
"I think this year we really proved ourselves at the club level," Tara Pierce said. "We have a lot of women who are ready to make the commitment to play in the Big East." 
"We knew this was the year the athletic department would be making their decision, and we wanted to step up our inten­sity to show we were ready to be varsity," sophomore Amy McGann said. "We were more serious this year than ever before, practicing and condi­tioning every day, sometimes at six in the morning. We've come a long way in just the four years that I've been here." Martin added. 
This type of commitment has been the norm for members of the women's crew club. Since most of their competitibn comes from varsity teams, the club has had to perform at a higher level in order to succeed. 


"There are very few non-var­sity crews around, and we have been successful in competition with varsity crews." Kelleher said. "We have proved that we can compete on the varsity level." 
While all the women involved are excited about the an­nouncement, they also realize that great changes are immi­nent for their programs. 
"Even though we compete at a high level as a club, varsity status will be a huge differ­ence," Kelleher said. "We will have access to full-time, paid coaches, and we will have the support of the school." 
Members of the clubs will also have to decide if they are ready to make the commitment to a varsity sport. 
"We know the Big East will provide some tough competi­tion, but we've worked hard this year to be ready for it," freshman lacrosse player Kerry Callahan said. 

Dine-In/Carryout Dine-In/Carryout Delivery/Carryout 52850 U.S. 31 Business 18157 State Rd. 23 6305 University Commons 
277-2121 273-1202 271-1166 
1HUT RP1 0 0059 
~----~----T----~----~ 

I I ~99
$899 I
I 

I One Medium I One Medium I 2-Topping I Specialty
PizzaI Pizza 

1 Any 2nd Large $5 Any 2nd Medium $5 Add 12 Wings $4
I 

I t!& I ~;. 
I ""'""" 1/11/~ ~~;,...~, ''""'" I .,.,...,.,_ 1/111.. ,.,. ..., .......,.,.,. 00,, "''"',. I '"·· '"'" ;;1"" ,.,•••~:,....,. 00"' """ I 
PilL1'111o1)1•ry(~cuupunpt-rp.lrt\;pl'I"IJ>d "oo.~l.lidwllh I!'M>MiolYI~I\' ~wupunpt"rp.lr1YJ'l'l"ll~ll Nrot~~ll<lwlthlwup<lllptrp.trtvpt.'fn~ll Spt'Oollt)pll.l•,nw.\1•1'\ Ni~I•JIItlI ~11fft-d Cn!!>! 1'11/ll>tanyl~hc.orlll'fc'l" L\~nl'l)' fNI):l"dn.l\ •ppl1 S!uf(,'(j Cne.t l'uJII ur anv 1~huulh r Ol4M'fV chirg..~may •1'(11} wrt~ Tnpld1L.:i<I.'I"]'IU~ ,.,. •nv ,~hc.'f uffu lldnwv rh.ull'-. m.~ 
..:«.'!1\mkl'o.'lil'lllp\l>'ll'o~~~~~~: f;\'1%\~mlllll h-.. l/lilfi'nllot-.hrrOrmp'rl\m,alm: •l"*tl'luallul.\m ~pplv 112\la.'lllc~,hn-do.'mf'\Jionl~lUt vlll%1'1willul.lnr 
I $1299 I 
New

TripleDec~r P~ I
I I or Stuffed Crust Pizza 
I One Medium I ~99 II 1-Topping Pizza I ~ETopping 1 
o &d. 
ne Me tum $1299 I
1 Specialty Pizza 1 Any Specialty 
Add 12 Win= $4 
,­

I ~ I 
I
NO COUPON REQUIRED 

~~ I """"""'''""" ,,.,.,,,....,.,,.,.,~..·-·, I 
~lollll.,,~f'llatlllf'illnl Spt.'G!II1 p111.-rTW1 1~1'\' No.~ ,~hd w1th ~n) nlho.'l' tllfllr IA~II<'IV (h.lfKi-. m.l'o ~JIPII r~tl'111 
r<tlllm~ ,,JWf!l'lmllullllC 

;J 
6 

1~. 77j ,7': I~._., I~ 


The Observer/Rob Finch Mike Amrhein and the Irish easily swept a doubleheader against Big East rival Pittsburgh on Tuesday. 
paeking up??? 
Cira's Service Center & Ryder Truck Rental 


make reservations NOW due to shortage of vehicles during commencement vveek! 
Cira's Service Center & Ryder Truck Rental 1914 Miami • South Bend, IN • 46614 
289-6721 289-5100 
Baseball 
continued from page 36 
them to give up and say, 'We've 
had a good season.' But they 
didn't." 
The Irish pounced on the Panthers without delay. Leading the blitzkrieg as usual was .420 slugger Randall Brooks, who tripled to set the momentum and then scored on a Scott Sollmann single. Justin Scholl was next, singling to right field and driving in the speedy Sollmann. The Irish were playing with unusual de­termination, perhaps despera­tion, and at no better time. 
Notre Dame resumed its hit­ting clinic in inning two, when George Restovich singled to right. Brock reached on a field­er's choice, Paul Turco walked and up stalked Brooks again, with his second triple in two in­nings and two more RBI up his sleeve. Suddenly, the Irish were soaring 4-0. 
When Pittsburgh pulled to within 4-3 in the top half of the fourth, Mike Amrhein answered with a two-run blast in the bot­tom of the inning to make the score 7 -3; Brooks frosted the cake an inning later with a solo dinger of his own. The second baseman would end up 4-for-4 in the game, with a home run, two triples and a single. 
While the bats hacked the op­position, Notre Dame's pitching excelled still more. Boston na­tive Greg Henebry, who only seems to get stronger as the season progresses, improved his mark to 4-1 in a six-hit com­plete-game performance. 
Game one, however, resem­bled a team shoot-around before a big game, a decent solo before a dazzling encore, a tying goal only to be followed by an overtime winner that brings the house down. Game one showed that the Irish could win; game two showed the Irish knew how to win and had the character to pull out The Big 
The Observer • SPORTS page 33 
~==----------------------------------~~~ 
IRISH COUNTRY BED &BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
The Preferred Registry 
Stay at the 
Moose Krause House 
or other approved homes for Graduation 
To reserve: 
Call (219)277·7003.Fax (219)273·2455 
Game. double down the left-field line. 
After dropping two pivotal Restovich singled to score 
weekend match-ups to West Amrhein from from second 
Virginia, a sweep of Pittsburgh base. Two innings later, in a 1­
was necessary for Notre Dame 0 nailbiter, Amrhein walked, 
to remain in the hunt for a Big stole second, and then scored 
East Tournament bid. Game again from second on a line 
two took some soul searching drive by Bob Lisanti. 
and barrel scraping, and sopho­The 2-0 Irish lead held up 
more phenom Dan Stavisky only because of the brilliant 
responded in cool fashion with Stavisky, who three times in the 
the game of his young career. last three innings faced a 3-2 
count on a Panther batter, and 
This was a pitcher's dream three times fanned the stupefied 
from the outset. Stavisky baf­batter. 
fled Panther bats, firing fastball In the eighth, Stavisky struck 
after fastball and racking up out the side, at one point throw­
strikeout after strikeout. The ing seven straight strikes. 
youngster mowed down the first "There was hustle. Guys hit 
eight batters he faced and in the clutch. Our pitchers were 
retired the side in order in four bulldogs," said Mainieri of the 
of the first five innings. two victories. 
Meanwhile, Amrhein was in­Prior to Brock's game-ending nicting irreparable damage on gutsy catch, Stavisky had struck the Panthers with the lumber. out six straight Panthers, in­In the fourth inning of a score­creasing his strikeout victims to less game, the junior ripped a 10, while never allowing a walk. 
Irish looking ahead to Big East tourney 
By DYLAN BARMMER 
Assistan! Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's sweep of Big East rival Pittsburgh yesterday may have been a turning point for the team, as they had been struggling all year long with conference competition, com­ing into the doubleheader with just an 8-7 mark in conference play. 
The Irish now stand at 10-7 in conference play, allowing them to pull within two games of idle Rutgers, who are cur­rently second in the Big East National Division with a 12-7-1 mark. Villanova, who has already completed their con­ference schedule, has locked up first place in the division with a stellar 16-5 mark in Big East play. 
The Irish will close out their Big East season with a crucial three game homestand against lowly Seton Hall, cellar dwellers in the National with a 5-14-1 mark. A series sweep coupled with a Rutgers blun­der in their three game series against 6-15 Georgetown, although unlikely to occur, would enable them to jump over the Knights, ensuring them of a second place finish in the National and an au­tomatic bid to the Big East Tournament, which is set to take place from May 14-17 in 
~fje <EngCtsfj <a)ummer ~our 8or ~fjeater ;£ot'ers 
this is an English summer tour to die for. It 
uiJlitrallfnrd-Upon-Avon Ihome of the Royal •••C0.111Nt•1y and birthplace of William Shakespeare) and tiiuiiGuilt in Hatfield House, the Elizabethan palace In which was told she had succeeded to the throne. 
ducltions-ranging from West End hits and musicals to -fill the inteiVening days. All theater visits Include both and private backstage tours. 
of time for shopping, for history, for pubs, and yes-for more ! I Of special interest: A private guided tour of the newly recon-Giobe Theater on Bankside, followed by a " 
: , yWt to famous 17th century eatery: The Anchor Inn 
:).~;~~r·f'' . , 
',~c tour comes complete with host Notre Dame Shakespeare Profet­.'t!-~r Paul Rathburn, plus professional guides for visits to tht Cotswolds, to Oxford, to Blenheim Palace, and to famous LQIIdol sites of interest. 
E!)upcr6 accommodations: Arst In Stratford's "The~'*" Hotel" ' 
(A.D. 1637!) and then in the lovely Rubens Hotel ..the 1bNter District in London. 
Ef)ponsor~ by the University of Notre Dame ~Association which extends an open welcome to all who love U,Jt theater. ' 
+,........ ···-· .\.,_ • ··--· ·--· -· ·---­

For additional lnfonnation and a brochure, please call, fax, write or e-mail to: University of Notre Dame Alumni Association \flo•~ 201 Main Building ~~~ Notre Dame, IN 46556 cJF;,~~#'·~ Lucille.C.Becker. 11 @.nd.edu ~.~~ Phone: 12191 631-6000 Fax: 12191 631 -7902 
Norwich, Connecticut. 
But all may not be lost for the Irish if the above scenario does not unfold. 
There are an additional two at-large bids to the Big East Tournament, and a sweep of Seton Hall would put the Irish in prime position to capture one of those bids should they finish third in the National. The status atop the American Division is less certain than in the National, us first place St. John's (14-7) plays host to 12­10 and currently third-place Providence in a crucial three game series over the weekend. West Virginia and Connecticut will also play a pivotal three game series, as the second­place Mountaineers (13-9) play host to the 12-10 Connecticut Huskies. Should the Irish sweep the Pirates and finish with just seven losses, they will be an attractive candidate for an at-large bid. 
"If we sweep Seton llall," said head coaeh Paul Mainieri, "Not only will we make the tournament, but we'll be ready to win the tournament. We'll probably be going into the tournament as the third place team in the National, but that doesn't really make a differ­ence. When other teams see us in that tournament, they're not going to want to play Notre Dame." 
page 34 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
• SMC TENNIS 
Hapless Kalamazoo shocks No. 12 ranked Belles 

Normally, five coaches rank said," but she could have even lights, tromer credits herNo. 12 ranked the top players in the Region, been No.8 or 9." team.with gaining valuable and then scorers drop the The Belles as a team fell expenence.
Saint Mary's players' highest and lowest from their fall season ranking "We lost three matches at scores, averaging the remain­of fourth in the Region to No. Hilton Head," Cromer said.falls to Hornets ing three. 12. The most current rankings "Out of those three, in two However, the coach from will be issued during the sum-losses we took our competition
By STEPHANIE BUEK 

Franklin and Marshall College mer. to 5-4. The other one we lost
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 

failed to rate Kozacik, leaving Cromer said that, despite to a Division I team. It was a her with only two scores to av­some setbacks, Saint Mary's good week. And we had goodFinishing their season 16-10 
erage after judges dropped her had a successful season. competition and close matches
and No. 12 in the Midwest 
highest and lowest ratings. Citing their Hilton Head tour­at the Midwest. People got
Region, the Saint Mary's 
"Kate did well to move to No. nament and the Midwest great experience. We had a
College tennis team fell to 
14 in the Region," Cromer Invitational as season high-good year."
Division III powerhouse 
Kalamazoo College, 1-8 last Thursday. 
The freshmen duo of Caroline and Morey Graham took their competition to 8-6 at No. 3 doubles to secure the Belles' one win for the day. Because of numerous person­nel changes, the underclass players have had to assume greater leadership roles for the team both on and off the court throughout the season. In what Head Coach Katie Cromer called their best per­formance of the season, the Grahams stepped up in cus­tomary fashion for the Belles. 
"It was a really good day for us," Morey Graham said. "We took control of the match. Everything seemed to click, ev­ery point was a winner. I'm glad we peaked somewhere. It was just good timing." 
Unfortunately, the team as a whole did not peak at the end of the season. According to senior co-captain Anne Underwood, No. 6 singles, the team has been in a slump for the last three matches. Though Kalamazoo, a top­eight seed in the Midwest Invitational Tournament, is known throughout the Region 
~-------------------­

for its top-notch recruiting and
modern facilities, the Belles were not consistently on top of 
•.MAILBOXES ETC:
their game. "I feel as though, for the past three matches, people weren't 
uMay Move Out ~96n 
playing up to their potential," Underwood said. "Kalamazoo 
Notre Dame & St. Mary's 
was definitely better than . those matches. I wasn't en-: 
10 am-Spm
tirely disappointed, but it just I 
was not a good day for us." I Stepan BasketbaU Courts Cromer agreed. Monday, May 6th -Saturday, May 11th "(The Belles) did not play to ~ 
Wednesday, May 15th-Saturday, May 18th their potential," Cromer said. 
Monday, May 20th "Betsy Gemmer played well, Lyons Basketball Courtsand No. 3 doubles played the · Wednesday, May 8th-Saturday, May 11th 
best match of the season. We did have some really good points, but we weren't moving In The Lobby Of Le Mans Hall as well as we should have. We 
Wednesday, May 8th-Saturday, May 11th 
didn't play like we normally 
Friday, May 1 do:" 
Despite disappointing play at $1.00 Off Shipping the season's end, SMC's season PER BOX had its highlights. According to the updated Midwest rank­
FREE PICKUP

ings, junior Kate Kozacik, No. 
Pickup is free, but no

1 singles, advanced from 
discounts will be

twentieth to fourteenth in the 
accepted with pickup.

Region. Cromer said that 
Permanent Location
Kozacik should have moved up 
Martin's Plaza-S.R. 23
even higher in the standings, but voting irregularities pre­Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm cluded such a move. Sat: 10am-6pm 
277-6245 

Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special observer ad. 

:Mother's Day is on its way! Take home a taste ofNotre Dame! 
.,."(~·*--• • 


<;jreat 'Beginnings. 
Grand Tina{es. 
Tfie on{y cookbook. 

one needs for making fabu{ous ayyetizers 
anddesserts. 

<;jreat for tai(gating andentertaining. 'Easy to fo[{ow, triedandtrue reciyes. 
.Jl.ny :Mom wi{{{ove tfiis Junior League ofSoutfi 'Bendcookbook.. 
.Jl.vai{ab{e at tfie J-fammes 'Bookstore. 
START YOUR FIRST DAY WITH YEARS OF EXPERIENCE BEHIND YOU. 

Bring your BSN to the Army and we'll assign a preceptor to help put you at ease. 
Your preceptor will be an experienced Army Nurse who will smooth your transition from school to practice. With advice, counsel on Army nursing pro­cedure, or just by being a friend. 
With your preceptor's help, you'll meet your new challenges and rapidly move into a leadership role of your own. 
Ifyou're a BSN candidate ...or you are an RN with a BSN...you'll find the rewards and responsibility you're looking for in Army Nursing. Contact your local Army Nurse Corps Recruiter. 
317-634-4496 
ARMY NURSE CORPS. BE ALL YOU CAN BE. 
TLe Ulti....-te 
·.,Y 
~ 
t 
J 
r I I 
~ 
r 
Wednesday, May I, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 35 
fOUR fOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLEIT YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 


0 
0.. ~ 
@I 
1/) 
:I
.. 
..0 

IN ONL'< THIRTY ~ 
u MINUTES, THI\T VIDEO .!: CORRECTED A BILLION ~ '<EAR5 OF EVOLUTION. ! 
1/) 

at the-­

1 Hollywood do 
(1978 song lyric) 5 Coat, with "on" 
33 "Little Lulu" 9 By surprise cartoonist 
34 50's Yankees great Hank 

14 Favorite 
15 -facto 36 Not in, in 
1& Kind of pad 
lnnsbruck 17 Heart of the 
37 Barelymatter 

40 PC key

18 Jerk: Var. 
41 Rummages19 Bogart in "High 
(through)Sierra" 
42 Toot 20 Barely 
43 Campus org. 23 Linear 
45 Scheduled 24 Toss (out) 
4&Some 25 Doyle's "--in 16th-century Scarlet" engravings 
28 Diner lunch 47 "Looks like order trouble" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
49 Japanese writing sticks 50 Barely 57 "Smoking gun" 58 Pitcher Wilhelm 59 "The Art of Love" author 60 Exploded 61 English composer &2 "So long" 63 Pants parts 64 Tournament ranking &5 Leave rolling in the aisles 
DOWN 
1 "Thank Heaven for Little Girls" musical 
2 Tennis score 3 Without a clue 4 Notwithstanding 
that 
HAPPY IHRTHDA Y! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: The solution to a problem will come to you in a mysterious way. Begin­ning in July, you will enjoy greater freedom of movement. Pursue edu­cational goals next September. A long-overdue reconciliation is possi­ble in late fall. A fabulous travel opportunity could come your way early in 1997. You feel more ambi­tious and motivated than in the past. Finalize a major business deal next Apnl. A year from now, romance will be uppennost in your thoughts! 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: songwriter Judy Collins. jockey Steve Cauthen, singer Rita Coolidge, writer Bobbie Ann Mason. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your upbeat attitude and comments persuade someone to reveal vital information. Work becomes play when you unleash your creativity. A co-worker may be attracted to you. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Doing too much for others could deplete your energy. Set aside some time to regroup. A project must be finished on time. Accept help from a colleague who has your best inter­ests at hean. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The lines of communication will be humming today. Key people are receptive to your ideas. A new ven­ture gets the green light. Romance may have to wait. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Linking up with YIPs could bring financial rewards. Use gentle humor when voicing your views about a change. Others begin to see a work
I PROBABLY 

project or family problem in a dif­ferent light. Welcome their insights. 
SHOULDN'T HAVE 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Giving 
FAST-FORWARDED 

credit where it is due wins you an influential person's respect. A
THROUGH THE 

change of lifestyle brings both greater physical comfort and new emotional secunty. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): lnnuential friends give the seal of approval to a pet project. Your keen intuition helps you take ~wift action. Save time by shopping by phone. A secret admirer wants to be discov­ered. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Look forward to a period of great growth where career and business are con· cemed. New source!> of capital make it possible for you to launch a pro­ject. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nol'. 21): Seek quiet surroundings when tack· ling a compl~x project. Return phone calls and answer correspon­dence promptly. The company of old friends or neighbors holds spe­cial appeal tonight. 
SAGITTARiliS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your job or financial hopes may be slightly unrealistic. Improve your earning power by sharpening your skills. Your mate is your strongest ally during a family crisis. Show heartfelt appreciation. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Terrific timing puts you in good financial shape. Repay business favors a~ soon as possible. A lucky break will help you make a new beginning. Lasting ties are forged. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Work to make sense of a budget. A shopping expedition promises to be tempting. Leave your credit cards at home. Attending a local event puts you in touch with interesting new people. Extend an invitation. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): A family member gives you a lucky break. A meeting of minds leads to a beneficial change of lifestyle. Curb spending by postponing non-essen­tial purchases. Romance begins to intensify. Avoid making too many promises. 

• OF INTEREST The Gender Studies Symposium celebrates the the achievements of concentrators and other students interested in Gender Studies. All are invited to a pro­gram on May 1. from 4:30-6:30 p.m. in the Conference Room, First Floor O'Shaughnessy Hall. The International Student Organization is hold­ing a picnic today, Wednesday, May 1. It is being held at Stepan Center from 5-7 p.m. Admission is ft·ee. All are invited to attend. Gandhi Jayantl: A Conference and Celebration in Honor of the 125th Anniversary of His Birth will be held on May 4, at the CCE. For more information call 1-6691. The Open Mike Night Coffeehouse, which 
includes free coffee, will be tonight in the LaFortune Ballroom from 9 to 11 p.m. 
•MENU 

Notre Dame NORTH Grilled Turkey Sandwich Cheeseburger Pie Baked Sole Jardiniere Spinach CheeseTortellini 
SaintM~s 

Chicken Pnmavera Turkey Cutlet Roasted Red Skinned Potatoes Harvard Beets SOUTH Chicken Strips Cajun·Baked Sole Noodles Romanoff Stir-Fry Vegetables 
-
--

s ABC's owner &It eats its 
vegetables 7 "Semper fi" grp. a Literary circles 9 Hebrew A's 
10 "Dick Tracy" star 11 Farm prefix 12 Not windy 13 'The Mocker 
Mocked" artist 21 Make beloved 22 Cowboy flick 25 Stoplight light 
26 Express authority 27 Pamphlet 28Thrash 30 Part of Felipe's family 31 More good-looking 32 Hardwoods 34 To-dos 35 Job hunter's need 38 Crystalline antiseptic 
39 California crop 50 P.O. alerts 51 Exact
44 Regis or Kathie Lee 
52 Part of a 

Wanted: Reporters, 
Japanese pilot's 46 Prepared to lift warcryprints 53 Resentful 
photographers and
48 Tests the weight 54 Planetary path of 
55 Actress Naldi 49 Composer Jule 56 Normandy event 
editors. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Join The Observer staff. 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 

It's the END of the semester ... Time to GEAR UP for finals and celebrate when they are DONE!! But when the finals end ... STAY SMART!! 
Remember To Make Responsible Decisions Before You Drink Without Feeling Pressure From Others. 
Sponsored By The Office Of Alcohol And Drug Education 
SPORTS 
page 36 Wednesday, May 1, 1996 
• VARSITY SPORTS 

Women's sports attain varsity status 
Women :S crew, lacrosse reach varsity level 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associate SportS Editor 

As part of the Notre Dame Athletic Department's five year plan of expansion. athletic di­rector Mike Wadsworth an­nounced yesterday that wom­en's lacrosse and women's crew would be raised to varsity status. 
Along with the two new var­sity sports, Wadsworth out­lined the plan for 22 scholar­ships to be added among vari­ous women's sports. The announcement marked the cul­mination of strategic planning sessions that began last January in the athletic depart­ment. 
The women's lacrosse team will begin competing as a var­sity sport next year, while women's crew will commence rowing in the Big East during the 1998-1999 academic year. Two other women's sports, water polo and synchronized swimming, made bids to step up to the varsity level but did not make the cut in the deter­mining categories. 
''I'm very pleased for those two club sports that will now be able to obtain varsity status because that was their wish," Wadsworth said. "We regret that we were not able to ac­commodate, at this time, the other two club sports as they both made an excellent pro­posal to us." 
Administrators scored the four sports acco·rding to cer­tain criteria. After the results were tabulated, women's lacrosse and women's crew scored the highest. 
"The criteria we considered in elevating lacrosse and crew were consistency of support, numbers of participants, growth prospects and confer­ence affiliation, usage of cur­rent facilities, financial implications and the sports' fit within our operating plan," Wadsworth said. 
Wadsworth also noted that the two new sports and 22 new scholarships are expected to bring Notre Dame to the 40 percent mark in both participation and scholarship offerings for women over the next five years. Whether these additions will fulfill Notre Dame's obligation under Title IX is pending upon a court's decision regarding the defini­tion of Title IX. 
The main question revolves around the implementation of strict proportionality under Title IX. Strict proportionality dictates that the ratio of men and women attending Notre Dame must be reflected in ev­ery facet of the athletic pro­grams. If strict proportionality is approved, these will not be the last athletic changes. 
"The legal question is a fuzzy one at the moment," Wadsworth said. "A fuzzy one because there has been a trial court decision that would indi­cate strict proportionality is a vital test. If that is to be upheld, then we aren't quite as far as we'll have to go." 
The legal aspect is only one aspect of the continued expan­sion of women's athletic pro­grams. 
"What we hope is, whether we have met the legal re­quirement or not, that we con­tinue to respond to what the demand is on campus both for women's and men's programs being expanded into the varsi­ty level, should we be able to accommodate them both finan­cially as well as with the physi­cal resources needed to sup­port the program," Wadsworth added. 
Schools across the country have attempted a similar re­sponse but are hindered by a lack of financial resources. Instead of expanding like Notre Dame, other universities have been forced to cut varsity pro­grams to meet Title IX re­quirements. 
"Largely, we're able to do it [expand) thankfully to the fi­nancial success of our varsity programs," Wadsworth said. "The financial success comes about primarily from two rev­enue sports, football and men's basketball. Football at Notre Dame by far, paying the lion's share for not only all of our varsity programs, but our en­tire recreational programs. We are fortunate to be in that position where we're able to manage it." 
After spending three previ­ous seasons as an interest group, women's lacrosse became a club sport in 1995. In its short existence, however, it has cultivated support in areas the athletic department believed important. 
"Women's lacrosse does not have a long history at Notre Dame. but then it scored high­er in other criteria and as a result it came out with the 
see VARSITY I page 32 
• BASEBALL 


The Observer/Rob Finch 
First baseman George Restovich and the Irish displayed the type of defense Tuesday that has led them to a 10-7 conference record.
-
Notre Dame bounces back with pair of wins 
By T. RYAN KENNEDY 
Sports Writer 

For a split second, when J.J. Brock tumbled in the wet dirt, onlookers wondered whether the third baseman had made the catch. But in victorious fashion. Brock raised his glove in the drizzling rain. His ac­robatic catch in front of the Notre Dame dugout capped off
-
a doubleheader sweep of Big East foe, Pittsburgh and sym­bolized Notre Dame's gutsiest performance of the year. The Irish pummeled the Panthers in game one with an 
8-3 win, then used solid defense and baserunning to claim the nightcapper, 2-0. Starting pitchers Greg Henebry and Dan Stavisky were indomitable -both hurled respective complete games, al­lowing only nine total hits, while fanning a combined 15 batters. 
''I'm so proud of them, as proud as I could be of a team," 
praised  head  coach  Paul  
Mainieri.  "So many people quit  
on them.  With finals lurking,  

with the bad weather, their 
see BASEBALL/ page 33 
Sports Writer  
The end of the semester has  
a sense of finality for the stu­ 
dents at Notre Dame: the last  
class, the last Observer.  
However, for the softball team  
it will bring a few firsts: its  
first Big East tournament and  
hopefully its first Big East  
championship.  
Notre Dame clinched the  
number one seed in the South  
division of the Big East, with a  
19-1 record -the best in the  
Big East. Also qualyfing for  
the Big East tournament was  
Connecticut, Providence and  
Villanova. The Irish posted a  
7-1 record against these three  
teams. Aside from the near­ 
flawless record. coach Liz  
Miller feels that the team has  
a few things to do before the  
tournament.  
"We have a lot of work to do  
to get mentally and physically  
prepared , " lamented Miller,  
who gave her team Monday  
off to rest the aches and pains  
of the regular season.  
Among the numerous things  
the Irish have to contend with  
during the tournament, aside  
from the explosive lineups  
and dominating pitching the  
team will face this weekend,  
are exam study days May 3-5.  
"Final exams are a factor  
since we play during study  
days," said Miller. "It's hard  
to focus on these things, but  
we will give the girls as much  The Observer/Rob Finch  
time to study during the  Notre Dame starter Terri Kobata sparked the softball squad to a 19-1 mark in the Big East conference. The Irish earned the top seed in  
see SOFTBALL/ page 28  the Big East Tournament scheduled for May 3-5.  


• SoFTBALL 

Irish prepare for postseason 
By Willy Bauer 


Lacrosse • Lacrosse prepares for season finale 
vs. Ohio State, May 4, 3 p.m. 
Men's Tennis 
see page 30 
NCAA Regionals, May 10-12 
Softball 
Big East Championships, May 3-5 
Women's Tennis 
• Rockets regain championship form 
NCAA Regionals, May 3-5 
Baseball 
see page 26 
vs. Michigan, May 2, 7 p.m. 
• Reggie Lewis' wife sues doctors see page 22 




