
Thursday, March 7, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 105 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Web site offers GRE tips, tests 
By MATTI lEW LOUGHRAN 
News Writrr 
Hnsunws and advertisemnnts asking for and oiT1~ring jobs have rncnntly appnarnd all ovm tlw lnWrrwt. Now there art~ inlPractivn msources avail­abll~ to thn 420,000 studnnts a ynar that snnk to continue thnir fHiucation by taking the c;raduatn l!ncord ·Exam (GI!E) rathPr than diving directly into tlw job marknt. 
Kaplan l·:ducational Centers launriHHI a snrvic1~ this week from their World Wide Web pagn that allows students to takP a sample GHE. rnr11iving both pnrsonaliznd fnedback and lf~st-taking strategies. 
Tlw snrvic•~. known as "nl'n~p: GIW". is just the lw ginning 0 f the p r 0 g r a Ill . "Wn dfllinitf~ly plan to expand this program to the other tnsts that wn must prnparn for. The !.SAT ( l.aw School Admissions T1~st) is probably the nnxt one WI~ will try," said !.aura Barrws. managing editor of Onlirw Services for Kaplan. 
Studnnts who wish to try the program can locate Kaplan's World Wide Web page at hllp://www.kaplaru:om and fill out thn n~gistration form fea­tun~d on thn pagn. They will tlu~n lm given a password that is valid for two wm~ks' worth of accnss to tlw "el'rnp" arna. "We an~ internsted in lwlping stud1mts, and so it s1~enwd only logical that wn would put this on tlw lntnrrwt. where more and 11101'11 studnnls snem to bn looking," said Barnns. 
Tlw "ld'rnp" snrvil:n is tlw lirst of its kind that is .entirely s1d f-contailwd. Aft11r studnnts tak11 tlw Wst. they receive tl111ir scorns instantly. along with pnrsonaliwd analysis of thnir in1:ornH:t responsns and strate­gins for improving thnir seores. 
"A rlassroom test and prep dass is still probably thn most nffnctiv1~ way of pn~paring for tlw 1~xam," commentnd Bar rws." But this nHJthod is 
~ce KAPlAN I page 6 

PinS calls for more SMC discussion 

Group rebukes lack of administrative action towards lesbian issues 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Saint Mary's News Editor 

One week al'ter the release of the recom­mendations of Notre Dame's Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Nneds, members of the Saint Mary's orga­nization People in Support (PinS) reacted to debate regarding the future of GLND/SMC. 
"We're disappointed that GLND/SMC was not acknowledged outright." said Max Westler, associate professor of English and mmnber of PinS. "We're waiting to see how GLND/SMC n~sponds." 
Wnstler nxpn~ssed criticism that Saint Mary's was in no way mentioned in the committee report. With regard to GLND/SMC, Westler said, "Saint Mary's is part of that name, too." 
• SEE FRIDAv's EDITION FOR SMC 
ADMINISTRATION REACTION 
PinS members view this as a·call to action on the Saint Mary's campus. "We need to discuss what this might mean for us over here," Westler said. "That's something we have planned for immedi­ately aftt~r break." 


While the report of Vice President of Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara's Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs sparked discussion on the Notre Dame campus this week ... 
According to Westler, the administration sends mixed reactions to the lesbian com­munity at Saint Mary's. "There's a sense of community tolerance on one hand, but no enthusiasm about recognizing GLND/SMC on campus," he said. "We've sensed no gestures by the administration 
The Obsetver/Mike Ruma 

...the administration at Saint Mary's College has not similarly responded to the concerns of GLND/SMC, co-chaired by John Blandford (above). 
in this direction." 
PinS has been an active and visible group on the Saint Mary's campus, as members distributed purple ribbons on campus to promote awareness for National Coming Out Day on Oct. 11. They have also sponsored lectures and dis­cussions about homosexual issues throughout the academic year. 
"PinS' purpose is to spread awareness and education, and to speak for toler­ance," Westler said. To daril'y the issue of campus afliliation or recognition, Westler said that PinS, comprised of both faculty and students, is "not affiliated with any­one but ourselves." 
The release of the Ad lloc report spurred questioning of what actions the Saint Mary's administration will take with regard to GLND/SMC. 
Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm only commented that GLND/SMC is "not a recognized organization on our campus." 
Westler said, "I think the administra­tion at Saint Mary's has had a chance to sit back and watch everything happen at Notre Dame. 
"This report brings about a time when Saint Mary's needs to lake some position on their own, independent from Notre Dame," he added. 
"A lot needs to be done. and a lot is going to be done. People are not going to 
see PINS I page 6 



New translation provides insights into Dante 
By CORRINE 1\URNICK 
Nt·w,Writt't 
Sin is tlw sPif 1~xncution of tlw soul, according to Hob1~rt I'i II Sky, all t h0 r 0 f a 1'1~ Cell t translation of Dantn's "lnfPI'IHl." lin spokn last night at lhn Snitn Museum's Anrwnhnrg Auditorium, ac­eornpanind by illustrator Mkhaol Mazur. with whom he c:ollaboratnd on the translation. 
Tlw JH'nsnntation revnaled thn rnanrH'r in which Pinsky and Mazur approadwd their tasks individually. as wnll as eollec­tiv1dy. and providml insight into tlu~ir own IH~rsorutl beliefs re­garding thn subj1H:t of Dantn's dassic. 
Mazur approadwd the podi­11111 lirst. giving a briPf history of his own nvolution and nxpe­riences as an artist. Educated at Amherst College and Yale University. Mazur first became nnthralled with capturing Dante's words in images as an 
undt~rgraduate. 

llowever, these early at­tempts at illustrating the "Inferno" proved largely unsuc­cessful, for, as Mazur candidly admitted, "I was too young to do Dante." 
lie struggled for years to lind an appropriate style, one that would capture the true mean­ing behind the "Inferno". It wasn't until he heard Pinsky's translation that he finally felt comfortable and inspired enough to approach Dante once again. 
As Mazur spokn about the evolution of his prints, it be­eame apparent that the ligures 

The Obsetver/Aiyson Frick 
Robert Pinsky spoke last night at the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum of Art. 
and impressions which he cre­ated to enllesh Pinsky's trans­lation were meticulously de­signed. Through the images, Mazur sought to move beyond the surface of the words, striv­ing to be true to the sense of self doubt and search for faith which he believed to be the erux of the "Inferno". 
Mazur admitted that one of the greatest difficulties in his illustration was "trying to make metaphor exist as a visual ex­perience." 
For instance, he had to strug­gle to lind an appropriate way to depict the human soul, to picture the movement and mys­tery inherent in metamor­"If I thought this work was about punishment. it would be laughable." 
While Pinsky dnclared that he was "drawn into this project through a technical feat of metrical engineering, not think­ing profound thoughts, "it was obvious from his moving read­ings and his insight into Dante's masterpieee that his knowledge of the text was indeed deep and familiar." 
lie immediately defined the thrust of the "Inferno" as the Pilgrim's depression, his "weak faith." In his opinion, Dante's work could be seen as "an imi­tation of action, a delicieney of the soul." The specific action in which the Pilgrim engages, ac­cording to Pinsky. is "to go into 
see DANTE/ page 6 
phoses. lie strove to make the abstract concrete so that Dante's work could be made more accessible. 
Mazur's illustrations provided an appropriate visual to Pinsky's vivid translation, sup­porting his assertion that the focus of the "Inferno" was not necessarily sin and retribution: 

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, March 7, 1996 
• INSIDE COI..UMti • WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Kosciusko: The Rebels attack Grozny as Yeltsin prepares plan to end war 
little county that could? 
For those of you who missed it, there is a movement afoot in Kosciusko County, a few miles south of here, to secede from the United States. Apparently, some banking concerns are dri­ving the good people of 


that municipality to des­ Dave Tyler  
perate measures.  News Editor  
The implications of this  
Constitutional  conun­ 
drum are staggering.  

If statesmen like John Calhoun, Jeff Davis, Henry Clay and Abe Lincoln couldn't resolve such a crisis without a war, is the County Executive of a proposed Kosciusko Free State really going to have the political skills neces­sary to avoid an armed conflict? 
Surely the rebels will be well armed. Cop cars, pickups automatic hunting rifles pur­chased in open defiance of the Brady Law, the whole deal. The border tension will lead to a national defense build-up of unheard-of pro­portions. Can the United States afford to have such a power existing within its borders? The resulting war would be total war. The casual­ties would be immense, the physical, spiritual and emotional cost would rip open wounds this nation would spend years healing. 
The patriots of Kosciusko will have to es­tablish a form of government, and a constitu­tion. Will they be a democracy? Will a landed aristocracy arise and make a throne for a king? The Kosciusko Republic? The Socialist Union of the County of Kosciusko (S.U.C.K)? Perhaps a military junta will rule the land with an iron fist. 
The sovereign state will have to establish diplomatic relations with other countries. The Vatican may send an envoy from our own Golden Dome to build ties. The Chinese could be a real thorn in America's side by immedi­ately recognizing the fledgling nation. NAFTA could come flying apart if our North American neighbors start trading with Kosciusko. 
The situation will necessitate a border pa­trol and strict customs laws. This will be es­sential to -slow the powerful smuggling market that will quickly develop, especially in the corn and cattle trade. Passports will need to be checked, trunks searched, duty free shops built at Kosciusko's airports. The U.S. would have to set up a trade blockade to bring the insurgency to heel. The UN Security Council would meet in emergency session to decide what to do about this growing world problem. After debating economic sanctions, the French would convince the UN to settle for an aerial bombing, and the civilian infrastructure of the young country would be ruined. 
The scientists of Kosciusko will furiously work on a top secret project to create the ulti­mate weapon, and after detonating it will request that the free world cower before their might. The radiation released will poison much of the grain supply in Indiana, Ohio and Illinois. Governor Evan Bayh will make a tear filled plea on CNN for the violence to stop. At his side will be University President emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh, Dan Quayle and Indiana coach Bobby Knight. Roger Miller will lead 250,000 Hoosiers in singing "Back Home Again in Indiana" at a sunset vigil at the Brickyard. John Mellencamp will organize a benefit concert for war refugees. 
If you're out there President Clinton, we can't allow this to happen. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Production 
Heather "What's in a Tom Schlidt name?" Cocks )ana Bruder Bill Connolly 
Sports Lab Tech Mike Day Katie Kroener Meghan Kunkel Viewpoint Meghan Smith 
Graphics Chris Mullins 

The Ohserver (USPS ';99 2-4000) is puhlished Monday through Friday c-xcepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associatt'd Prc:-ss. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 
Rebels attacked Russia~R~~~~~ f~st~: ~;:~~~:=:~·;:~;:~:-············-········~~-~;:~ ~~~%:.i~~~ssm~;~sg :geee%ce; ~~it~-\~~s~:~ 
Chechen capital Wednesday, burning down / RUSSIA /·'·~~-v-"j tanks moved toward downtown and rein-police stations and blowing up water-•,_..c,.. ~· KAZAKHSTAN forcements rushed in. pumping depots in some of the fiercest · )-iY!<RAIN \. fcaspian ., Guerrilla fighters seized at least two fighting in Grozny since the war began. '··-~.r-~l;:;, .u \ .!.~tsef---C~-police stations, setting them on fire, and 
They made their bold assault on the eve ... (81 ~<~ -'· made repeated attempts to reach the air-of a Moscow meeting of milita~y and go~-}~\~c_ .., ~-......)<._.,..~ \ '-~~~,:;..:'~'--port. The rebels also blew up three water­ernment leaders, where President Bons ·~ TURKEY j..· , , . . . . pumping stations-jeopardizing the city's Yeltsin is expected to announce a plan to ·~ ARMENIA-~--·-.... "" water supply -and seized a heating end the 14-month-old war that has killed ....~::::~::t..r:~<:::::::~:\ 1 ~~-~-:~~ plant, lnterfax said. about 30,000 people and crippled his bid !TAR-Tass said the rebels captured for re-election in June. many civilian hostages, but it gave no 
Blasts from machine guns, mines and details. In past raids, Chechen fighters exploding grenades shook the city as sol-have taken hostages from outside their diers fought about 300 rebels on several tiny southern republic and kidnapped fronts. News reports said Russian heli-... ~ .. Russians working in Chechnya. copter gunships flew over the ce?ter of 1"df.};.-......?.,~.i> •· It appeared to be the worst fighting in Grozny, a city already ravaged by mtense ·North , Grozny since the Russians took the capital fighting in January 1995 and sporadic Ossetia r Chechnya a year ago and the war for Chechen inde­attacks since. .".j ...·30miles pendence moved into the countryside.
!'·-" . ~ 

At least 10 soldiers died Wednesday and .'GEORGIA•"-::.::::.,.:.:.::........ aokm However, Russian Defense Minister Pavel more than 30 were wounded, Russian news AP Grachev played down the reports of fight-agencies reported. There were no reports in g. "One does not need 100 people to of rebel casualties, but the Interfax news agency said aggravate the situation in the city," lnterfax quoted police and civilians also were killed. Grachev as saying. Separatist rebels attacked at dawn from several direc-"Five to six rebels firing in three or four districts would tions, striking Russian checkpoints on the outskirts of be enough to trigger panic." 
Clinton pushes for Bosnia aid Arafat's police assist Israeli military 
WASHINGTON JERUSALEM 
The Clinton administration today 
With Israel in control of the West Bank, Palestinian po­
pressed Congress to approve $200 mil­lice joined Wednesday in the crackdown on Muslim mili­
lion in reconstruction aid for Bosnia, tants whose deadly bombings are tearing apart the 
saying the money goes hand in hand Israel-PLO peace. PLO chairman Vasser Arafat's forces 
with the job of American peacekeeping on Wednesday raided the Gaza Strip's Islamic University 
troops in the war-torn country. -a hotbed of support for the militant Hamas group. The 
"Holding back the dollars we need for night before, they joined Israel in an arrest sweep in the 
relief and reconstruction doesn't sP.rve West Bank for the first time. Palestinian police sources 
our soldiers," Anthony Lake, the presi­said more than 400 have been arrested in Gaza and the 
dent's national security adviser, said. "It doesn't serve West Bank in the last 10 days, including four activists on 
the people we're trying to help and it doesn't serve our Israel's wanted lists. Tuesday night's joint sweep netted 
nation's interests." The administration has been en­relatives of a suicide bomber behind one of four explo­
couraging nations around the world to contribute to an sions since Feb. 25 that killed 57 people and the 
international rebuilding fund for Bosnia after 3 1/2 years bombers. Arafat also approved a life sentence with hard 
of war. In the United States, though, foreign aid is not labor Wednesday for the man accused of recruiting three 
politically popular, particularly in an era of deficit spend­of the four bombers. Mohammed Abu Wardeh was not in 
ing and budget cutting. The administration believes it is court Tuesday night when he was convicted and sen­
critical to -win approval of the $200 million for Bosnia tenced by a Palestinian tribunal. After the bombings, 
before an April 17 donors' conference of wealthy nations. Israel clamped a curfew on refugee camps and hinted it 
"If we do not come to the table with $200 million, these may deport Hamas activists -a tactic not used in more 
other nations will not bother coming," an administration than three years. The Israeli army's return brought a 
official said, speaking on condition of anonymity. flurry of activity from PLO officials. 
Mexican ex-official freed in U.S. Heimlich thwarts bagel choking 
TRENTON, New Jersey SOUTH HAVEN, Ind. 
A year and three days after he was detained by U.S. An art teacher at South Haven Elementary performed 
authorities, a former Mexican deputy attorney general the Heimlich maneuver on a guidance counselor after the was freed on bail Wednesday while the government con­man ran into her classroom choking on a bagel. "He was tinues trying to deport him. Mario Ruiz Massieu must like this," said 7-year-old Kristen Lee of Mike Kochend­wear an electronic monitoring bracelet and remain under ofer as she demonstrated by making her eyes bug out. 24-hour guard by federal agents at a home in New "His face was all red." The astonished pupils became Jersey. He also had to post the $9 million frozen by U.S. witnesses to a life-saving rescue Tuesday. "He sounded authorities in his Houston bank account. The govern-like a gorilla and he made a really big noise like he was . ment, meanwhile, will keep trying to have Ruiz Massieu choking," said Adam Walters. 8. Kochendofer said his deported, citing Secretary of State Warren Christopher's was in his office grabbing lunch on the run. The 25-year­opinion that he is a threat to U.S. foreign policy. Ruiz old said he stood up, took a bite, noticed it was a big one 
Massieu is accused in Mexico of obstructing the probe and walked to the water fountain to wash it down. 
into the 1994 assassination of his brother, the No. 2 offi­"Then I realized the water fountain wouldn't work," he 
cial of their nation's ruling party, to shield the brother of said. Air was not moving in or out of his lungs. The bagel 
then-President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. Ruiz Massieu, was stuck in his windpipe. Kochendofer hustled down the 
who is now seeking political asylum, successfully fought hall and burst in on Vondracek's class. "He came in my 
ofT four extradition attempts and last week won a chal­room waving his arms," Vondracek said. "He couldn't 
lenge to his deportation that ultimately led to his release. talk, but I knew something was wrong." 



Thursday, March 7 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, March 7. 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
.........-..--...a.....a.. .....-...-. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY «:11996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure 
H L m ESI 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a AsSOQ818d Press 
Atlanta 40 25 Dallas 57 25 New Orleans 45 34 
Baltimore 35 23 Denver 38 10 New York 37 25 
Boston 35 25 Los Angeles 85 55 Philadelphia 38 24
4,9,~4G8 {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago t8 4 Miami 76 72 Phoenix 84 40 
Vta AssOCiated Press GraphtcsNet 

Columbus 25 12 Minneapolis 23 -1 St. Louis 30 10 
P-----------------------------------------------~---------------------------------
Ihursday, March 7, 1996 
The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Dole sweeps latest primaries, loses two rivals 
GOP front-runner augments his list ofendorsements 
By TOM RAUM 
Associat«l Press 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Bob Dole watched two GOP rivals fall by the wayside Wednesday but two more made it dear they weren't ready to fall in line with the Kansas sen­ator's self-proelaimed "mission to unify the Hepubliean Party." 
Thn withdrawal of Lamar Alexander and Diek Lugar from thn race prompted !louse Spmlker Newt Gingrieh to pro­nourH~e that "Dole is nomi­nattld." 
But Pat Buchanan said he was in tlw race to stay, even if Dole's nomination now "apptmrs inevitable." 
Milllionaire publisher Steve Forbes vowed to press on as well. picking up the endorse­ment of former Housing Seertltary Jack Kt"\mp. 
Dole, rolling off an eight-state sweep of primaries, obtained the endorsement of one George Bush and got some kind words from anothnr. 
Texas Gov. George Bush Jr., son of the former president, put his support behind the Senate majority leader at a news con­ferenee on the lawn of the state capitol. 
FLOWERS DELIVERED 
~7 DAYS~ 
"Senator, you are made of 
steel and America needs your 
stmngth," Bush told Dole. 
Bush earlier had endorsed Texas Sen. Phil Gramm, who dropped out of the race last month. 
From Austin, Dole flew to Houston for an audience with the former president -who defeated him in the 1988 GOP primary. Bush said he wasn't endorsing his onetime rival, but he said it with a wink. 
''I'm going to speak enthusi­astically for him," Bush said. 
The former president even made a point of letting Dole sit in a chair he brought with him when he left the White !louse. 
Dole said it felt "all right. I could get used to it." 
Of Buchanan's indication that he would take his battle all the way to the GOP convention in San Diego in August, Dole said: 
"lie didn't indicate he would support me but I hope he will." 
Dole also shrugged off Kem­p's decision to help Forbes, not­ing that Forbes and the former New York congressman were good friends. 
"It won't change my cam­paign, it might change Jack's," Dole said without elaboration. 
Looking ahead to Thursday's primary in New York, Dole pre­dicted victory and said, "there are three of us in the race. I hort~ they do poorly." 
With 123 delegates at stake, Texas is the biggest prize in 
Flowers, Roses, Balloons, Birthday Cakes, Fruit Baskets, Plush Animals and Gifts 



~asy tatGh 
Clocktower Square ALL MA.JOR CREDIT Phone Answered 51400 US 31 North 24 Hours a Day
CARDS ACCEPTED 277-1291 or 1·800·328·0206 

South Bend 
next week's mostly southern 
"Super Tuesday" races, fol­
lowed by J-llorida -where Dole 
was headed later Wednesday. 
Jeb Bush, another Bush son 
and Florida GOP gubernatorial 
candidate in 1994, also en­
dorsed Dole on Wednesday. 
Of the Texas governor's en­dorsement, Dole said, "This endorsement means a great deal to me.... It's the icing on the cake." 
Asked whether he would par­ticipate in a planned debate in Texas on Friday with the field now so winnowed, Dole said, "That decision is pending." However, a trip back to Texas for the event was not on Dole's schedule. 
Dole held a 2-to-1 lead over his closest rival in a Texas poll released Wednesday. Among likely Republican primary vot­ers, Dole was supported by 45 percent, Buchanan by 20 per­cent, Alexander 10 percent and Forbes 9 percent. The survey was conducted by the Office of Survey Research of the Uni­versity of Texas for Harte­Hanks Communications Inc. 
Dole was asked about exit polls suggesting many of those who voted on Tuesday would have preferred a different can­didate. 
He said that voters often want more choices than they are given. But, he declared, "I think the field is pretty set." 
Dole and the former president crossed swords in 1988 when Bush won in New Hampshire, partly with ads calling Dole "Senator Straddle" and sug­gesting he favored tax in­creases. 
Dole admittedly bore some animosity toward Bush for a while, but later closed ranks and worked hard in defending Bush administration policies in the Senate. 
At the news conference at the state capitol, Dole said he hoped Buchanan would wind up supporting him. Asked about 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 

Sunday, March 31, 1996 
12:00 -3:30 PM 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility ofmarriage 
Tgpics to Be presented: 
•Stages ofrelationship 

•Steps in making healthy decisions 
•Long-distance relationships 
There is no cost for the program, but... Pre-registration is required. .. By Friday, March 29 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Office: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
Questions? Call631-5242 

The Observer/Kevin Klau 

Senator Bob Dole spoke in a state legislative office in Connecticut on Friday as part of his presidential campaign. Dole emerged victorious from Tuesday's Connecticut primary. 
Buchanan's talk of going to the tories, Dole said, "My mission convention anyway, Dole and our mission is to unify the cracked, "If you don't have any Republican Party and close delegates when you get to San ranks." He said it was time to Diego why make the trip?" confront "the real target -Bill 
Still buoyed by Tuesday's vic-Clinton." 

Pulitzer-winning poet to give public reading 
Special to The Observer 
Pulitzer Prize-winning poet Yusef Komunyakaa will read from his work Monday, March 18, at 7:30 p.m. in the Univer­
sity of Notre Dame's Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Komunyakaa, winner of the poetry Prize in 1994, is a 


native of Komunyakaa Bogalusa, La; he served as a correspondent and editor of The Southern Cross in Vietnam, where he received the Bronze Star. 
He graduated from the University of Colorado in 1975, receiving a master's degree from Colorado State University in 1979. In 1980 he received a master's in fine arts degree from the University of Califor­nia, Irvine. 
From 1984-85 he served as poet-in-the-schools for New Orleans, teaching poetry to stu­dents in the third through sixth grades. He is now a professor of English at the University of Indiana in Bloomington. 
According to the Bloomsbury Review, "Komunyakaa's poems are jazzy and improvisational, razor-sharp pieces that tell us more about our culture than any news broadcast." 
Komunyakaa's books include "Neon Vernacular," and "Toys in a Field. 
The reading, which is free and open to the public, is spon­sored by the Notre Dame En­glish department's Creative Writing Program. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
----------~--~--­
page4 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 7, 1996 

You're failing Physics. Your girlfriend dumped you. Your self-esteem is way low. So you call Grandma for some sympathy. She tells you to "Stop whining and get a backbone." Ouch, talk about to~gh love. 
·­

Thursday, March 7, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• BOSNIA 
By SRECKO LATAL 
Associated Press 
HADZICI 

Thousands of jubilant Mus­lims and Croats poured into this deserted Sarajevo suburb yes­terday as Serbs gave it up to their enemies' control. 
The crowds appeared un­fazed by an overnight attempt by some Croat policemen to thwart the handover and un­dercut the Muslim-Croat fed­eration that is to govern half of Bosnia, including all of the cap­ital Sarajevo. 
The Croats' challenge to the federation's authority under­scored growing disputes be­tween Muslims and Croats within their federation, formed under U.S. pressure in March 1994 after a year of lighting. 
It also threatened Bosnia's fragile peace: If the federation cannot function, then the coun­try is likely to disintegrate, with the Serbs nwrging with Serbia, Croat lands uniting with 
• RUSSIA 
Croatia, and a small Muslim state struggling to survive between them. 
The Muslim-Croat federation was forged under U.S. pressure in 1994. Under the terms of the Bosnian peace agreement signed last year, the federation is to govern 51 percent of Bosnian territory and the remainder will be under Bosnian Serb control, with a weak central government han­dling foreign policy and mone­tary policy. 
lladzici was the third of the five Serb-held Sarajevo suburbs to come under the control of federation police, who are to take over the entire capital by March 19. Almost all of its Serb residents fled before the han­dover, their own fears of reprisal from wartime enemies fanned by Bosnian Serb leaders who incited them to leave. 
Thousands who fled Hadzici or were expelled when the Serbs took it in 1992 clogged the main road into the suburb Wednesday, eager to see even the hulks of their homes. Most houses had been stripped by departing Serbs loath to leave anything valuable behind. Some still smoldered after being set 

AP/Wm. J. Castello 

ablaze overnight. 
"It is strange, very strange to be here again after these four years," said Husein Dupovac, one of the federation policemen who was born in Hadzici and lived there until Serbs expelled him in 1992. 
Foreign policy may face alterations 
Ano~iated Press 
MOSCOW Hussia's post-Cold War role should be to counterbalance 
U.S. domination. Foreign Min­ister YfWJ{flny Primakov says, asserting that Moscow has gone "too far" in aligning with the West. 
Primakov, Hussia's spy mas­ter for four years until becom­ing foreign minister in January, outlined a far cooler attitude toward the West than his pre­decessor, Andrei Kozyrev. 

In an interview published Wednesday, Primakov said it was time for Russia to redefine itself as a "great power" and pursue a great power's foreign policy, despite profound eco­nomic problems. 
"I'd say that Hussia's foreign policy ... consists now in a more active, effective defense of our interests, while preventing things from slipping toward a Cold War," he told the daily Izvestia. 
In a clear reference to the United States, the world's sur­viving superpower, Primakov said "some are seeking to dom­inate" the post-Cold War world. 
Hussia should be neither an enemy nor a close ally of the West, he said. Instead, it should seek a "civilized partnership" of "equals" while defending its own interests. 

TRAVEL EMERGENCY Kl·.r 


Serving You Comes First 
Available at 

He said his family is planning to return even though their house was destroyed. 
Only about 150 people, most of them elderly, stayed in Hadzici; they were left without electricity, water and heating. 
"My wife and I decided to stay here," said Djuro Puljic, a 70-year old Serb. "We realized that if there is any humanity left in this world, there is noth­ing we should be afraid of." 
Puljic, who fought as a Yu­goslav partisan in World War II at age 12, said the 43 months of Bosnian bloodshed were worse. 
"I have seen it all for the last four years. Slaughtering, loot­ing, torching and raping," he muttered as tears rolled down his cheeks. 
Just half an hour before the handover became official, the threat of NATO guns forced out a band of Croat policemen opposed to the Muslim-Croat alliance. 
The trouble began late Tues­day when the 18 Croats entered the police station at Hadzici and joined Serb police there, imme­diately setting off rumors of a joint Serb-Croat maneuver against the Muslims. 
International police requested help from the NATO-led peace force, and about 100 French troops equipped with 20 gun­mounted armored personnel carriers rumbled into lladzici overnight. 
The French were ready to use force, as authorized by the Bosnian peace accord, said Navy Capt. Mark Van Dyke, a NATO spokesman. 
After a tense standoff, the 18 Croats left at 8:30 a.m. -just half an hour before lladzici offi­cially passed to federation con­trol. 
Muslim and Croat officials in the federation have been argu­ing over which group should dominate the Sarajevo admin­istration, and they are bitterly at odds over the divided, south­western city of Mostar. 
Jozo Leutar, a Croat who is the federation's deputy interior minister, said the policemen deployed in Hadzici included only those approved by the Muslim-led Bosnian gov­ernment but none delegated by Bosnian Croat authorities. 
"We want our federal partner to learn to respect the federal system and acknowledge that one people do not make up the federation," Leutar said. 

Evacuation continues due to serious blazes 
By ROBERT IMRIE 
Associated Press 
WEYAUWEGA, Wisconsin 

Fires that engulfed tankers from a derailed freight train raged for a third day today, leaving evacuated residents no choice but to wait for the blaze to burn itself out. A breach in a natural gas line threatened to make their wait even longer. 
About 1, 700 people within a 2-mile radius of the derailment were evacuated, including everyone living within the city limits of this central Wisconsin 
. town. Among the 37 cars that de­railed at daybreak Monday were 14 propane tankers, and one immediately exploded in flames that wiped out a farm cooperative's feed mill. No one was injured. Authorities insisted the threat of another bigger ex­
plosion was too great for any­one to be allowed back home. 
Gov. Tommy Thompson, who visited the area today, said a natural gas pipeline leading into town had been breached because of the train wreck. He said that even, after the de­railment scene was safe, it could take another 20 hours to repair the natural gas line leak. The line was shut down shortly after the derailment. 
The governor urged worried residents evacuated from the city shortly after the incident to be patient, estimated it could be another five days before the fire goes out. 
"It is more serious than what we originally thought," he said. "We thought people would be back in their homes relatively quickly." 
Thompson said he came to the Weyauwega area hoping there would be a way to put out the lire, perhaps by drop­ping foams on the names, but was told that would not work and could cause more prob­lems. 
Helicopter flights over the crash scene today showed four cars carrying the highly com­pressed fuel had burned out and about half a dozen were still blazing, authorities said. 
Although some dairy farmers had been allowed to their prop­erty to milk herds, police warned there could be disor­derly conduct arrests if others tried to get to their homes. 
Some of the evacuees were staying with friends. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out·of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 


-----~--­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, March 7, 1996 

House votes to increase sanctions 
tioning Cuba 

J. 
Highlights of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act, passed Wednesday in the House: 
nternational sanctions 

•Urges President Clinton to seek, in the U.N. Security Council, an international embargo against the Castro dictatorship. eAIIows Clinton to aid Cuban democratic opposition and human 

E1J""i.llay challenge U.S. embargo against Cuba 
The U.N. General Assembly voted 117-3 in November to urge the United States to end 

MADRID, Spain the embargo, with only 38 
Days after Cuba was hit abstentions. with international condemna-The bill that cleared tion for downing two U.S. Congress on Wednesday civilian planes, Washington is makes it impossible for the under fire from its allies for president to ease sanctions on trying tq Punish foreign com* Cuba without an act of pani(;ls wb.o do business withxLCongress. It allows Cuban* the ({0 ·~· CatibbeanJs~:' Amf:lricans and others who larid · · ··· lost property since Fidel 
through the Senate 74-22. Clinton discarded past ob­jections to the bill after Cuba's Feb. 24 downing of two American civilian planes and has promised to sign it. 
The overwhelming congres­sional votes conveys a message that ·"no one in Cuba, and no one in the rest of the world, should expect this embargo to be lifted until there is democra­cy in Cuba," said House Speaker Newt Gingrich, R-Ga. "There is no future for the Castro dictatorship. There are no deals." 
Rushed through Congress in the anger that followed the plane attack, the bill makes it impossible for the president to ease sanctions on Cuba without an act of Congress. It also al­lows Cuban-Americans and others who lost property since Fidel Castro took power in 1959 to sue foreign companies mak­ing use of the seized property. 
It also forbids entry to the United States of company presi­dents and individuals who prof­it from confiscated property. 
Canada and the European 


Dante 
continued from page 1 

it," the "it" being all-consuming despair and defeat. It is this exploration of the self through the journey of hell that allows the Pilgrim to heal. 
Pinsky also recognizes the fig­ure of the Pilgrim as repre­sentative of Dante himself. The apprehension which the Pilgrim experiences in Canto One as he contemplates whether or not to proceed on his journey is really "Dante doubting himself." 
Pinsky acknowledges that Dante saw his own task of exploring Hell as monumental; it was an "ambitious" and 

Kaplan 
continued from page 1 
great for the instant and per­sonal feedback that it gives the student. Currently, the service exists in a free preview stage containing only one GRE test form. The free period ends in mid-March; at that time, a fee will be charged to students who wish to use the materials. 

I lastchance to prepare for the April test 
Call: 1-800-KAP-TES 
Last class begins on: 
get a higher score 
Sunday, March 10@ 1 pm 




KAPLAN 


The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Advertising Account Executive 
Do you need extra money or valuable marketing and sales experience? The Observer offers: 
• 
Flexible Hours around class schedules. 

• 
Excellent Income Opportunity. 

• 
Valuable Work Experience in a Fun Atmosphere. 


Freshmen and Sophomores encouraged to apply. Please contact Ellen@ 631-6900 or drop off your resume to room 314, LaFortune. 
~Shu~ca~e
-

s --~~f) 

~\\~~~~\\\\ 
~~ -~ 
Sou~h
IUSB Bend Symphonic Philharmonic Choir Orchestra 
Sunday, March 10, 1996, 8:00 p.m. Campus Auditorium -Northside Hall 
Call (219) 237-4203 
~~ For '"1111 '"lormatoon t.lop Dv the !USB Bo~otl•c• Nortnuta Hall or Cal• 12'tl2l7,.20lm Spacoal ratat. lor Sanoor. G!oups and St..llentt. Tl•a (;amput. AuOil011<.1m ot. luMt ""';:.:" handoaopped aceauoble logntad pat•o!led park"'ll 
. lngenius.

Creative.
1
Fear ess. dustrious. Self-starter. In Proven leader. of humor. 
Sense k experience. 
summer wor d describe 
If these wor s lk to the 
n-don't wa 
you-ru d sign up for Career Center a~ tervieW with an On Campus n . 
. Rev1ew.. 
1he Pnnceton . . ldwide 
. 60 CitieS wor 
offices In . for some and are look;nrks for fu\1-time exceptional o 
positions. 
llllake 
your arents
P proud··· 



By JIM ABRAMS Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Propelled by a second de­termined vote in Congress, leg­islation is on its way to President Clinton to increase economic sanctions on Cuba and keep foreign investors away. 
The House passed the Cuban Liberty Act 336-86 Wednesday, a day after the legislation swept 

' ' ' :Ui•·h;n•l Summ••••s lh•,:imml Uh·•••·•m· 
679-92:i7 

Union have protested that the provisions infringe on their sov­ereignty. "Although the EU is fully supportive of a peaceful transition in Cuba, it cannot accept that the United States unilaterally determine and restrict EU economic and com­mercial relations with third countries," the Europeans told the State Department. 
Mexico, partner with the United States and Canada in the North American Free Trade 
Agreement, said the bill vio­lates international law and regional and bilateral U.S. com­mitments. Its foreign ministry said Mexico and Canada will, through NAFTA, "challenge the effects this initiative will have." 
Lawmakers greeted such complaints with scorn. 
"It is time for them to un­derstand that we will not go merrily along while they pro­vide a lifeline to this communist just off our coast, who is in fact a mortal enemy of the United States of America," said Rep. Gerald Solomon, R-N.Y. 
"For those who have said to me that we have insulted our allies with this, I would say our allies have insulted us by not observing our embargo," added Rep. Porter Goss, R-Fla. 
The House and the Senate passed the bill last fall in dif­fering versions, but until the planes were attacked they went nowhere. The administration and the Senate opposed the lawsuit provision, and the House would not yield. 
Clinton's reversal of his op­position last week assured the 
"vainglorious" undertaking which inevitably caused the poet apprehension. 
Pinsky's translation touches at the heart of Dante's "Inferno" by exposing sin as an "absence of soul, of sinfulness, of being." It proposes that the focus of Dante's work was not punishment, but "depression," that the "Inferno" was "a cata­logue of what souls do to them­selves." 
When discussing why the col­laboration of words and pic­tures was so successful, Mazur indicated that it was necessary for him "to know the book, feel it, to have it in [me]." He added: 
"While Rob tends to treat it as 
a mechanical project, I think it 
rights groups. 

• Embargo on Cuba may not be lifted until a transition government is in place. 
Aid for an independent Cuba 

• The U.S. may help Cuba set up a democratic government. 
Protection of American interests 
• To deter foreign investment in Cuba, U.S. courts may intervene in cases concerning property 
confiscated by the Castro regime. 
Exclusion of aliens 
• Foreigners who invest in 

· confiscated property in Cuba may not enter the United States. 
AP bill's passage. He changed his position after lawmakers gave him authority to suspend the litigation clause for six-month periods and set a $50,000 mini­mum on claims that could be filed. Democratic opponents ac­cused both. Clinton and GOP supporters of bowing to the Cuban-American lobby in Florida,' a key state in the presi­dent's re-election bid. 

PinS 
continued from page 1 

have the luxury of watching what happens across the street. This has to come to the front burner here." 
.PinS will host an open forum on March 21 at 12:20 p.m. in room 306 of Haggar College Center. Students, faculty, staff and administraion are encour­aged to attend. 
Both Timm and Georgeanna Rosenbush, director of Student Activities, declined further comment last night on the sta­tus of GLND/SMC on campus, pending additional review of the Ad Hoc recommendations. 
The E n Union, which accounts, for 45 percent of Cuba's foreign trade, and the 14-nation Caribbean Commu· nity said the measure violates international law. The EU said lt may 9hallenge the measur(') through the World Trade Organization. 
Russia's parliament said it was "alarming" that Wash· ington would impose U.S. law on other countries, while Spain's foreign ministry said the measure "would not fos* ter a peaceful transition on the island and would have negative consequences for the welfare of the Cuban people." 
Canada and Mexico, part­ners with the United States in the North American Free Trade Agreement, said the bill violates NAFTA's free-trade principles. Mexico's for* eign minJstry said the two countries would use NAFTA's own appeal provisions to challenge the law. 
Controversy over Washing-ton's embargo against Cuba is not new, even from U.S. allies. 


Castro took power in 1959 to sue foreign companies mak* ing use of the seized property. And it keeps company presi~ dents and individuals who profit from confiscated prop· erty out of the United States. 
President Clinton has said he would sign the bill, which allows him to suspend the lawsuit provision for six­month periods. 
Spain's biggest daily, El Pais, lamented in an editorial that the U.S~-Cuban spat was occurring during America's electoral campaign. 
''One doesn't have to be a genius to ... predict that Clin­ton, who until now was de­termined to veto a law that so abuses the rights of third par­ties. will say he's ready to sign it. One can't conduct a campaign in Florida without being anti-Castro," the news* paper said. 
Businesses with links to Cuba waited to see the details of the bill, and whether Clinton will impose the law­suit provision. 
Thursday, March 7, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------~-=-­



Alexander, Lugar exit Republican race 
By CAL WOODWARD 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Lamar Alexander and Sen. I>iek Lugar, two also-rans in the Hnpubliean presidential raen. bowed to thn inevitable today and folded their cam­paigns. On tlw way out. both 
•~ndorsml 
Sml. Bob Dole. Tlw fornwr Tennessee gov­

•~rnor 
went first, telling a news eonft~renen in Nashville that he has ended his eandidacy. lin eongratulatml the front-runner Dole and offered him his sup­port. 


Lugar of Indiana made his announet~lllllllt in a Senate hearing room, his family surrounding him. 
"Tlw apparent nominee is a man for whom I have great admiration, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, and I look fo·rward to his nomination," Lugar said, adding that he and his wif~. Charlene, planned to vote for Dole in Indiana and will "ask our friends to do the same." 
Alexander said he went 
across Ameriea asking if Dole was the man Hepublicans want to oppose President Clinton. "What I discovered is the an­swer of most Republicans is yes," he said. 
lie was warmly cheered by a roomful of Tennesseans. 
Dole '"has character, he has dignity," Alexander said. "We gave it our best shot." 
Asked if he would accept the vice presidential place on the Republiean ticket, Alexander said, "I wouldn't be a very good second fiddle. "If anyone asked him, he said, he'd present a list of five people who would be better qualified for the second place. lie didn't name them ­and his answer did not close the door on the vice presidency. 
Alexander and Lugar, both winless, were considered spoil­ers just last week by jittery Hepublicans rooting for Dole and aghast at the populist con­servative uprising Pat Buchanan was suddenly bring­ing to the race. 
But Dole steam-rolled the competition in eight primaries 

Still in ..• Bowed out ... 
•Pm 
Buchanan •LLmlilr Alexander 

•Bob 
Dole • Richard Lugar 

•Bob 
Doman •Phi/ Gramm 

• 
Steven Forbes 

•Alan 
Keyes 


AP Tuesday night. 

Alexander, former federal education secretary, had been emboldened by a third-place finish in New Hampshire but found little to sustain him after that. 
Even before it was formally announced, Lugar's decision brought dismay to former as­sociates. "It breaks my heart." said Hobert Beckmann Jr., Lu­gar's press secretary when he was mayor of Indianapolis. 
"lie didn't fail the American people, the American people failed him," said William Bud­nut, who succeeded Lugar as mayor. 
He amassed only 10 delegates 
May 1996 Graduates Personalized 


Graduation Announcements 
printed with gold from the Notre Dame dome. 


Student name and degree personalized 
into the text on each announcement. 

$23.50 for package of 20 announcements & envelopes 
add'! packs of 5 @ $5.90/pack 



'lbziversity of'J{ptre 'iJame 
Notre Dame Note Cards $7.00 per box of I 0 
(includes envelopes) 

Order NOW by mail to: Balfour/ Ed O'Neil 2346 So. Lynhurst Dr. Suite 500 Indianapolis, IN 46241 
Mon. -Fri., 8 -5 317/241-5000 with questions 800/236-4639 orders only fax: 317/241-0430 
by Br:.lfrm,. 
(Sample text only) 

The President, Tmstees and f acufty of the University of N<Jtre Dame are pfea.secf to announce t(w.t De6orah M. Sasso is a candid'ate for tFte cfegree of 
before Tuesday. Lugar never cracked the top four before the so-called Junior Tuesday series .of contests, often getting only a few percentage points of the vote. llis best showing Tuesday was a fourth in Vermont, where 
he got 14 percent of the vote. 
Alexander's departure will 

remove from the GOP campaign 
an ardent advocate of transfer­
ring federal powers to the 
states, more ardent even than 
Dole, who waves a copy of the 
Tenth Amendment, em­
phasizing state rights, wher­
ever he goes. 
It will remove, too, a sea of 

red and black plaid shirts, 
Alexander's trademark state­
ment of his connection with 
just-folks. He gave out hun­
dreds during the campaign. 
"We've run a very clean cam­

paign, not succumbing to the 
mudslinging that some of the 
others have," he noted. 
But Alexander, 55, had been 

fiercely critical of Dole for lack­
ing vision, made veiled but 
unmistakeable references to 
the senator's age. 
Bacfiefor ofScience attfie 
One Huncfred Fifty-first 
Annuaf Commencement on Sunday Maj 19, 1996 

'University of'J{ptre 'iJame 



%anl(l)fou 


Notre Dame Thank You Cards $7.00 rer box of I 0 
(includes envelopes) 

Order in person: Wed., Thurs., March 6, 7 and Tues., Wed., March 26, 27 
9:30 am -4:30 pm 
La.Fol'tune Student Center Sorin Room, 1st floor 
• NORTHERN IRELAND 
Adams: IRA is 'reluctant' to disarm 
By SHAWN POGA.JCHNIK 
Associated Press 
BELFAST 

The IHA is ready for "anoth­er 25 years of war" with the British and won't agree to dis­arm unless there is a negotiat­ed settlement to the connict, Sinn Fein party leader Gerry Adams says. 
Adams, whose party sup­ports the IHA but says it can't control the outlawed group, gave his account of a secret Feb. 28 meeting with IHA com­manders in his regular column in the Irish Voice, a news weekly published in New York. Sinn Fein released advance copies yesterday. 
Later, the IHA leaked ex­cerpts of its latest policy state­ment to the Irish national broadcasters HTE in Dublin. The excerpts also suggested the IRA was unwilling to re­sume its truce despite the British and Irish governments' decision to set a June 10 date for all-party talks, the longtime demand of the IHA-Sinn Fein movement. 
A statement attributed to an IHA spokesman, due to be pub­lished in full on Thursday in the .JHA-Sinn Fein newspaper An Phoblacht-Hepublican News, said the promise of ne­gotiations was not enough to "move us all away from con­fliet," RTE reported. 
Both governments say Sinn Fein cannot participate until the IHA restores the cease-lire it broke last month, and they seek a formal renunciation of violence from Sinn Fein. 
Sir Patrick Mayhew, Britain's Northern Ireland secretary, said Adams' account of IHA attitudes "will strike terror into the hearts of people in No~~hern Ireland in particu­lar. 
"The obstinacy of their (the IRA's) language is very un­helpful," said Mayhew's Irish counterpart, Foreign Minister Dick Spring, after he met Northern Ireland political par­ties in Belfast. 
A commission led by former 
U.S. Sen. George Mitchell in January proposed a six-step renunciation of violence, in­cluding a requirement the IRA begin disarming before a peace settlement is reached. 
"There will be no surrender of IHA weapons under any cir­cumstances and to anyone," Adams quoted one of several unnamed IHA commanders as saying. "Disarmament of all the armed groups is only viable as part of a negotiated settle­ment and nobody knows that better than the British. We will accept no preconditions what­soever." 
lie quoted one lHA figure as saying: "We sued for peace. The British wanted war. If that's what they want we'll give them another 25 years of war." 
The lHA ended its 17-month cease-fire Feb. 9 by bombing London's Docklands, killing two and causing more than $125 million in damage. 
The IRA and Sinn Fein com­plained that Britain and the north's British Protestants were blocking the way to negotiations. 


page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 7, 1996 
• COLOMBIA 
Police slay notorious drug lord 
By FRANK BAJAK 
Associated Press 
BOGOTA 

Minutes after police gunned 
down the nation's most wanted 
drug boss, President Ernesto 
Samper was on the airwaves, 
claiming his share of the credit. 
The successful manhunt for 
Jose Santacruz Londono -the 
Cali cartel's No. 3 man ­
"proves the fight against drug trafficking is sincere and not a facade," Samper declared as Santacruz's corpse lay face-up on a Medellin avenue, a pistol by the dead man's side. Although many Colombians consider Samper unscrupulous .in his determination to cling to ol1ice despite charges of taking cartel. drug money for his elec­tion campaign, they also think ·he ean only gain domestic sup­
port for felling Santacruz. 
"l would say it's going to help Samper. What he wants is to stay in power. He doesn't care about the country," said Maria Jimena Duzan, a leading columnist. 
A police patrol chased San­
tacruz's car after an informant 
tipped off authorities. He was killed in a shootout, abandoned by his phalanx of bodyguards. There had been a $2 million bounty for his capture. 
Santacruz, 53, had been in Medellin for at least two weeks because he thought police would be combing his home city of Cali. The body was flown there for a private burial Thursday. 
Samper's performance early Wednesday earned him points with some Colombians -but Washington showed no inten­tion of reconsidering penalties it imposed last week for Colom­bia's perceived inadequacies as a partner in the war on drugs. 
Colombia wasn't punished for a lack of commitment to capturing drug bosses: Scores of police officers and prosecu­tors have proven their resolve. It was punished because of Samper and the narcotics-relat­ed political corruption in which he was implicated after his 1994 election. 
U.S. Drug Enforcement Ad­ministrator Thomas Constan­tine telephoned Colombia's de­fense minister Wednesday to express his "deep admiration" for national police commander Gen. Jose Serrano and the country's chief prosecutor, Al­fonso Valdivieso. 
.But there were no kudos for Samper, whose impeachment Valdivieso requested last month in accusing the president of winning office with more than $6 million in Cali cartel contri­butions. 
In Washington, Constantine told reporters that official cor­ruption, porous prisons and weak anti-drug laws remain a problem in Colombia. 
"I don't think there's any­thing Samper can do to resur­rect himself in the eyes of the United States," said Marc Chernick, director of Latin American Studies at Johns Hopkins in Washington. 
"His record in the drug war is very good,. as far as l can tell. But the U.S. wants him out. So I can't see that one more cap­ture-success by the Colombians in the drug war is going to help him," he said. 
The Clinton administration decertified Colombia as an ally in the war on drugs. 
• HAITI 

'Trigger-happy' police involved in shootout 
By MICHAEL NORTON 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE 
A shootout between police 
and members of a street gang 
in the seaside Cite Solei! slum 
on Wednesday left several 
people killed and others 
wounded, witnesses said. 
Among those wounded were 
two policemen, one hit by a 
bullet and another struck by a 
bottle, independent Radio 
Metropole reported. 
The gang, called the Armee 
Rouge, was angered over the _Tuesday shooting of one of its members by a security guard 
at the capital's port. 
On Wednesday, they set up 
a barricade in Cite Soleil. 
When police tried to break up 
the roadblock, gang members 
threw bottles and stones, and 
a shootout ensued. It was 
unclear who fired the first 
shots. Witnesses told an 
Associated Press photograph­
er they sa\Y the bodies of nine 
people being taken away, and that about 10 others were wounded. But no official fig­ures were immediately avail­able. 

Cite Solei! was still tense late Wednesday, with truck­loads of police patrolling the area. 
Haiti's hurriedly trained po­lice force lacks numbers and experience and has been ac­cused of being trigger-happy. Several unarmed people have been killed by police officers in recent months. 
On Nov. 23, a 6-year-old girl was shot fatally in Cite Solei! by a police officer involved in an altercation with a bus dri­ver. ller killing sparked a riot that led to the ransacking and torching of the local police station. At least one other per­son was killed during the exchanges of gunfire. 
Haiti's force of 6,200 offi­cers received an abbreviated training when they replaced the hated army that ousted former President Jean­Bertrand Aristide in 1991. 
CAMPUS MINISTRY ••• ••• CONSIDERATIONS 
Encountering Christ During Spring Break 
It a!ways seems that Spring Break comes just in the nick of time! · 
Just when you think that you may never experience more of this campus than your room, the computer cluster, DeBartolo, and the dining hall, this Break comes. At just about the time when you forget that there is a sun, this Break comes. 
Some people are going ~way during Spring Break and some people are staying around. 
No matter what you are going to be doing or where you are going to be, I invite you to consider the ways you will be encountering Christ during the Break. I invite you to consider that the people going to Appalachia and those going to Gethsemani Monastery for a retreat are not the only ones who will be encountering Christ. 
You may be getting away from school, but there is no getting away from Christ. 
An encounter with Christ can occur at a fancy resort, if you watch around the edges. In a special way, I ask you to consid­er how you will encounter Christ in the "little pe~ple" you will see and meet during Break. Recognize that there is more to a person than the fact that he works as a desk clerk in a motel. Recognize that there is more to a person than the fact that she is a maid. Recognize that there is more to a person Now, I love a great time and I love resorts as much as the next person. I hope that you have a great time wherever you will be. Relax, kick-back and party_ It is really important to take a break. 
But, I invite you to recognize Christ and to let this bring out the best you, treating others, especially the so-called "little 
people", with respect.  You may find out that they have some­ 
thing to teach you.  
-Fr. Bob Dowd, C.S. C.  


Senior Retreat 1996 
Facing the Future with Hope 
Friday, March 22 (4:00PM) through Saturday, March 23 (6:00PM) 
Sign-up by March 22 at the Campus Ministry Offices. 
Questions? Call631-7800 or 631-5056 





Lenten Retreat 
SpiritJUJI Livine in 11 Secultlr World 
Saturday, March 23 (5:30PM) through 
Sunday, March 24 (3:00PM) Sign~up by March 22 at the Campus Ministry Offices. Questions? Call631~ 7800 or 631~5056 
THIRD SUNDAY OF ORDINARY TIME 
than the fact that he takes tourist's luggage to their rooms. Recognize that there is more to a person than the fact that he drives a beat-up taxi. Recognize that there is more to you  Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica  
than the fact that you are a student on Spring Break. Recognize Christ.  Sat. March 9 Sun. March 10  5:00p.m 10:00 a.m.  Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C. Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  Rev. Robert Dowd, C.S.C  


--~--------------------~------~------------------------------------~----------­







VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 7, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OI'I'ICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 't6556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucru. Business Manager Joseph Riley 
New• F.ditor ................................ David Tyb Advertising Manager...........................john Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. McaghJn Smirh Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Sport• Editor .......................•..... Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Af...t:cnt Editor .........................Krisra Nanncry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Paui Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Oh-.rver is tht· independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre DJ111t' Ju l..u: and Sainr Mary's College. 1r docs not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administra­tion of eillu.-r imtiturion. The news i!! reponed as accurately and ohjt'ctively as possible. Unsigned cdi­wrials rrprcscru the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, M~maging Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediwr, Accenr Editor, Phoro Editor, Sporrs Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. C:ommcnrarit"s, letters and Inside C:olumns present the views of rhc authors, and nor necessarily those ofTht" Observer. Vic"Wpoinr space is a\'ail.tblc w otll members of the Notre Damc/Sainr Mary's com­munity .md to all readers. The free L"Xpression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 6.~1-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EdilOr/Vicwpoint 6.ll-454 I Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4'i43 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Ncw...JPhmn 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 A~.:ct"nr/Saim Mary·~ 631-4 'i40 I'ax 631-6927 I l.ty EJiror/Pruducrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu ( ;eneral lnt(mnation 631-7471 Ad E-M.1il ohserver@)darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• KEVORKIAN KORNER 
From Dilbert to Usenet: a survey ofpop culture 
I think my friend Charles Rice spoke ures are simplified and stylized down to get good at these games? I would think you not read it? for all of us when he began his last col­the level of hieroglyphics. The boss, you would need thousands of quarters I have had a lot of fun reading legiti­umn with the words, "We need one with his twin hair-towers. Halbert, and hands the size of Michael Jordan's. mate lists, as for example the Bob Dylan more column on abortion." Is there Catbert and Dogbert, indistinguishable The games are prohibitively expen­list, or various Boston Celtics news­anybody on campus that doesn't feel this except for general outline. And how sive. too. "Crypt Killer," an invitingly groups, but the people who write for way'? I for one feel shortchanged in a about the natives of Elbonia, with their violent-looking new game in LaFortune's them tend to be depressingly familiar. week in which Professor Hice doesn't beards? You'll note, too, that Dilbert basement, is a case in point. In the first Typically the entries run something like count how many fetuses can dance on has the same tiny arms that Calvin had, level you get to shoot some zombies and this: the head of a needle. But I can't be of the better to express his physical power­skeletons; fine. But it turns out that the 
lessness; and no mouth. The reason? I first level is a giveaway, the equivalent re: Jackson Brown Rules! (35) think that Dilbert is a mute. His dialog of free "shareware." The game begins frodo@aol.com is all internal, in the style of Johnny Got in earnest on the second level, where His Gun. Along with his missing eye­the sweating, cursing player, beet-red and then you open up the message by balls, he represents the helpless, mute, with fury, fires away at a flying rats, fly­double clicking on it, to find some such
Josh 
blind fetus-like powerlessness of the ing swords, flying maces, mysterious message as, modern office worker. Say! Maybe boulders, and Easter Island statures for Charlie Rice should start reading it. a maddening minute or two before his >>Dylan is a raspy old hebe with 
Ozersky 

The Corruption of the Video Game. life and quarters are extinguished. >>nothing left in the tank. A real When I was a boy, there were certain What a gyp. That's all I can say. >>artist like Jackson Browne has inviolate rules of video games. One was What a gyp. >>infinitely more to say, and without the that they cost a quarter; another was Usenet Lists. What a find these lists >>shall we say, espophagal problems of 
much help in this area. Other things are that you got to play as long as you are! I've started looking around at all >>Dylan. :-) on my mind. Popular culture topics. stayed alive; a third was that they were Uillu~rt: Now that Calvin and Hobbes easier than piloting the Space Shuttle. Bosh! you know nothing of Dylan's has joined The Far Side in cartoon heav­All three of these rules have been suc­work! Consider his use of grail-imagery 
•~n. I gw~ss you would have to say that cessively ignored in recent years. What on Street Legal ... and so on. Can there llilht>rt is the number one comic strip in are we coming to as a nation when video 'you'll note, too, that really be anybody who would rather i\merif'a. And I'm glad of it! Scott games, the purist of all childhood pur­read this stuff than the secret habits of
Dilbert has the same
Adams is on the ball in a way that no suits, become grasping and rococco and degenerates'? Now, I suspect that many comic strip can sustain for more than a anhedonic to the core? I hate these new tiny arms that Calvin had, the contributors to the Dylan list also con­few years anymore. Now that our cui­video games! tribute to the coprophile, Santaria, and
better to express his physical 
tun~ is glutted with comedy and jokes, Ever since Mortal Kombat came out, survivalist lists, but I feel these latter it's hard for a cartoonist to keep his fast­the video game has ceased to be a self­powerlessness; and no mouth. pages show them at their best. Or at ball. (For my part, I keep waiting for contained joy. What I think happened least their most interesting. The politi­
The reason? I think that 
somnbody to do a cartoon on terrorists. was that the processors got so fast and cal lists are almost as good. Not only do 
Dilbert is a mute.'

The second I heard that the Mossad had the graphics so good, that more and you get the undisguised venom, but blown up one with a booby-trapped faster monsters were mandated, just as there are militant cross-posters, too, cellular phone, the cartoonish image the Pentagon's new toy mandates new Libertarians on the Buchanan list, or canw to my mind of a man in sunglasses "strongmen" to use it against. Game Buchananites on alt.fan.Farrakhan. The and a turban holding a lit stick of dyna­designed suffered concomitantly. No White House, meanwhile, maintains a mite to his ear and shouting "hello'? more the simple elegance of "Moon this stuff on the Web (next week's col­list somewhere, which is read by some lwllo'?" into it. And then the pause. Patrol." Now you need a magazine or a umn will be a report) and I just can't get Lisa Loeb-type ingenue from Brown And tlwn the BOOM!) Frequently-Asked-Questions cheat sheet over how many weirdos there are out before being digested and passed along 
Evnryone tends to get stale. Even to learn the secret moves. Even the there. Take the Bestiality list, for ex­to the Vice President. But as for me, I'll (;ary Trudeau. the Nolan Hyan of the bloody fatality, which is the pay-off of ample. Seeing it listed, I assumed it was stick with the perverts. Now if only genre, is dt~sperattlly treading water the whole business, is unavailable to the a joke, like alt.evan.dando .die.die.die, there were a Mary Worth list... while hn thinks of a way to get Duke unlettered player! Your man just stands or the various ketchup lists you hear hack into tlw strip and make it readable gesturing futillely at his dazed opponent, people talk about. But no-it was quite again. I lis currnnt sm·ies on Buchanan who collapses limply while you fume. for real. There were technical queries, Josh Ozersky is a graduate student in workers (see bdow) is almost as un­The game involves more buttons than veterinary advice, a little bit of moral history. His email address is funny as il is labored and gratuitous. one has digits, and places them in temporizing: a whole community of per­Joshua.A. Ozersky.] @nd. edu llilbert, on the other hand, is always unlikely, arbitrary patterns. How the verts, their most secret desires and tech­funny. Like all the best cartoons, its fig-hell do these children I see at the mall niques open to the world. Well, how can 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
51</NHEAR TO GUAG&l 

CAMPAIGN ... THE !VR60TTEN ~---...~====1 81(3(71; 7V THE 
SIVCNESS QC TH/5 

RJR60TT£N 
JEUJ-8AITER I 
• QUOTE Of THE DAY 
"Life is much too important a thing ever to talk seri­ously about it." 
-Oscar Wilde 

------------~· ---~--------------------~---~
... 


VIEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, March 7, 1996 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Football breeds batterers 
Dear Editor: 
The article in The Observer (Feb. 13) on the pending domestic violence trial of the NFL quarterback Warren Moon triggered a question that the Simpson trial had not. What role does football play in the vicious game of domestic violence. At ND we may be tempted to give this question a quick answer. 
Football builds character in its players, right? Football stars are our cultural heroes, for heavens sake! But recently the list of foot­ball figures that have made the news because of their nasty incli­nation to beat up women is getting longer. 
Is there something wrong with the nature of the game? During this last season I saw some of the worst cheap shots I have ever seen. You may not see it on game day, but on the practice field I have heard coaches yelling Kill!, Kill! -to sixth graders who looked like they could topple over from the weight of their helmet and pads. What kind of boyfriends and husbands will they grow up to be? We all like to see people have a second chance, but the people who study domestic violence seem to agree that batterers seldom, if ever, change their ways. 
Is there a connection between the game of football and domestic violence? If there is, the ND should lead the parade in the effort to fix the problem. 
JOHNHOUK 

Keep up the good work 
Dear Editor: I am a seventh grader at Edison Middle School. My name is Ravi Bhavsar. I am thirteen years old, and live in this city. 
I am just writing this letter to recognize your wonderful faculty and students. You have worked very hard to make this University one of the best. You have also been successful. I always love being on campus. Even the sights and over all appearance of the University look pleasant. However, I rarely get to come on cam­pus. I hope to come to study here in the future. 
After I did some researching, I found out that most universities never get close to the percentage of graduates that you do. I real­ly admire your work. Keep it up. I am sure that the students are working very hard to accomplish this. The teachers seem to have a nice method of teaching. It is just such a happy feeling to say that I am from South Bend. Your hard work has given the whole city of South Bend a good reputation. 
I usually notice that kids or schools that are good in sports do not have very high academic records. This University is different. Everything is high. In fact, a few years back, we were almost number one in football. You cannot believe how proud I am. 
This recognition goes to everyone in the school including stu­dents and faculty. If it is possible, I would appreciate it if you could get this message to as many people as possible on campus by possibly publishing my compliments in your newspaper. 
RAVI BHAVSAR 

ND Democrats support GLND/SMC 
Dear Editor: 
In light of the recent report from the Ad Hoc Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. we find it necessary to comment on their recom­mendations and address the debate surrounding this divisive topic. 
·we first commend the committee for their sin­cere effort in thoroughly researching the issue and calling for improvement of the situation of gays and lesbians on campus. Specifically, the call by the committee for revi­
of the committee's recommendations. it is still apparent that the issue of recognition is being avoided. The creation of a student organization dependent upon the Vice-President for Student Affairs, when an independent one trusted by gays and lesbians already exists, is self-defeating and illogical; for the committee itself admits that GLND/SMC is already doing an "impressive" job of meeting the needs of gay and lesbian students. despite its many restrictions and the presence of 
a hostile environment. 

sion of the University's -------------­Granting recognition to harassment and non-discrimi-GLND/SMC would provide gay natory clauses is is long over­and lesbian students with due and vital for the develop­' Granting recognition both tangible and symbolic ment of an atmosphere of support, and would make
to GLND/SMC would 
acceptance and respect. It is considerable progress in evident that the committee provide gay and lesbian breaking down the stigma recognizes the need for a stu­and paranoid fears attached 
dent organization for gays students with both tangible to homosexuality at Notre and lesbians; it also acknowl­Dame. The University has
and symbolic support.' 
edges the positive role that pledged to be a safe and GLND/SMC has served in inclusive environment in meeting the needs of gay and which every student can pur­
lesbian students. The commit­tee reports "GLND/SMC has been the primary source of support for most of the students to whom we listened." But given the restrictions placed upon the committee by Vice-President for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara, which prevented recognition of any student organization, the com­mittee in effect had its hands tied and was unable to directly address the issue of recogni­tion. 
This is merely another chapter in the University's string of failures to improve the situ­ation of gay and lesbian students. Its refusal to recognize GLND/SMC has fostered the continua­tion of "a painful and divisive debate" and has facilitated the isolation, frustration. and fear experienced by gays and lesbians on campus. This also points to the real presence of intoler­ance within segments of the student body and administration. The recommendations calling for revision of Du lac, Faculty Handbook, and Staff Employee Guidebook harassment and nondiscrimination clauses must be implemented if Notre Dame is to be an institution of inclusion and acceptance. 
But merely calling for tolerance would be largely ineffectual. Despite the positive aspects 
sue an education. free from harassment of any kind. If the University truly believes in the inclusion of gay and lesbian stu­dents, recognition of GLND/SMC is still the most viable solution. 
The administration is thus presented with the unique opportunity of bringing students of all sexual orientations together and healing the wounds of the past. If the administration expresses its unequivocal support for gay and lesbian students by adopting the Ad Hoc Committee's recommendations and recognizing GLND/SMC, the campus will inevitably become more tolerant and accepting of homosexuality. Avoidance of the issue. however, will only encourage unfounded prejudices and fears. We. as the student body, should demand that the administration hear our voice and move toward a policy of inclusion and acceptance; only then can Notre Dame truly be called a family. 
MICHAEL GAGLIA MATIHEW DULL KATHERYN MEYER CATHERINE MULLALY CARRIE STEW ART Notre Dame College Democrats 


Opus Dei plays troubling role in Latin America 

Dear Editor: 
I read with interest The Observer's coverage of Professor Mary Key's lecture on Pope John Paul II's October 5, 1995, address to the United Nations (The Observer, Feb. 28). Professor Keys, it was reported, spoke of the Pope's call "to build a universal civilization of love" and of his conviction that the cornerstone of the good society is "fear of God' and a "com­mon moral core." His rhetoric is impressive, but I worry about his practice. 
This Pope's enthusiasm for the secretive and reactionary organization Opus Dei is well known. What is less well known, is the deeply troubling role Opus Dei has played in many places, not least in Latin America. For example, during the brutal Pinochet years in Chile, Opus Dei was actively involved with the junta. There is also a history behind the cool relations between Opus Dei and the Holy Cross order here at Notre Dame. Opus Dei informers at the crack Holy Cross school. St. George's College in Santiago, were instrumental in the Pinochet take-over of the school. Moreover, last year the Pope appointed yet another Opus Dei bishop, this time to El Salvador -to the bishopric once held by the martyred Oscar Romero. 
Here is what the National Catholic Reporter had to say in early February about the appointment. "The political and ecclesial panorama in El Salvador is especially complicated fol­lowing the Vatican's appointment last year of a Spanish-born Opus Dei prelate, Fernando Saenz Lacalle, to head the San Salvador see. The move shocked many Salvadorans. guided for years by the clear option for social justice ... 
Saenz has attempted to shift the church back to its pre Vatican II alliance with the Salvadoran elites... To finish the city cathedral he rallied huge donations form the business sec­tor, and another $2 million from the conservative government of the republican Nationalist Alliance, ARENA. whose founder. former President Roberto D'Aubuisson, ordered the murders of the six Jesuits from the Central American University in 1989." 
Archbishop Saenz has also told subordinates to stop spread­ing the thought of Archbishop Romero. It is in this context that Jesuit theologian, Jon Sobrino, has lamented that the Catholic Church is "no longer a threat to the powerful," and that the poor "no longer find in the Church a place of help and refuge." 
Perhaps Professor Mary Keys' own involvement with Opus Dei-she is Director of its Women's House in South Bend ­inhibits her from acknowledging the pope's failures, for in­stance his complicity in undermining "the moral core" of soci­eties like El Salvador. 
ANN PETTIFER ND'?G 
Common Sense defends revision request 
D~r Editor: 
The President of ND/SMC Feminists for Life, Laura Grimes. states that her article criticizing "hormonal contra­ception, reproductive tech­nologies. and abortion was rejected" by Common Sense. (The Observer, Feb. 28.) She is being economical with the truth. When the article was submitted, several members of the Editorial Board were disturbed by its far from fem­inist, hard-core Vatican line. Consequently, Grimes was asked to make a couple of revisions: To discuss the importance of male responsi­bility in matters of birth con­trol, and to mention the lowly condom as a non-pharma­ceutical method. She declined. I should add that it is not uncommon for the Board to ask authors for revi­sions. 
It is also worth noting that in December 1992. Common Sense published a long piece by Grimes on "Pro-Life Feminism." It opened as fol­lows; "I was pleased to see the variety of feminist per­spectives on abortion in the February issue of Common Sense.' 
PETER WALSHE Professor Board member, 
Common Sense. 

Thursday, March 7, 1996 
page II 
REMYZERO RemyZero 

W
hen you listen to a disc eight or nine times and you still don't know what's going on, you're either really onto something, or you're on something. Hemy Zero's self-titlod debut album gives one this feeling. Featuring a home-hrewml wall of sound aesthetic and the most obscure lyries this sido of Steve Kilbey, Hemy Zero has ereated a mon­stnr that. if set loose, eould wreck the lab that elones grungy blobs and sends them whining up the pop charts. 
But don't bet on it. Hcmy Zero's produetion technique is dif­feront, hut... if you believe the press rnlease, they will some­day make Sgt. Pepper's look like another stone in the road. It won't happen soon. Hight now their technical genius lies in making high-pitched, atonal background noise with a guitar and attaching little throwaway bits -as irrelevant as they are tantalizing-to the ends of songs. 
Hidden in all this extraneous noise arc some catchy tunes. "Shadowcasting" and "Tenemos (llere Come the Shakes)" could be singles-in-waiting. Both are guitar-laden, hook-heavy jingles full of stream-of-consciousness lyrical imagery that fits 

(out of five) 

nicely with the overall sound. They're diverse, too. From the driving "Tenemos" comes "Descent," a mid-tempo hookfest that sounds like Soul Asylum less than sober. Then comes "Water," a slower song that you could almost waltz to if you were in the same condition as Soul Asylum. 
And then Hemy Zero is forgotten and gone. Snatches of music will stay with you, but Hemy Zero sponds so much time on sound that their hooks arc buried. The press release says replicating it live will be a "challenge." Quite so! IIcard live, that distorted drone is going to be well-nigh insufferable unless you've a stiff G +Tat your side through the whole set. 
Nevertheless, give them credit. Hemy Zero is a daring band, and in time, they may start a serious revolution. Bear in mind, though, that llootie and the Blowfish has sold tlhwen million albums. These times, alas, arc not made for revolutionaries. In three years, Hemy Zero will be one of two things: either "the guys who started it all," or another obscurity in the $4.99 bin. Time will tell: they deserve to win. 
-by Kevin Dolan 

THE SPINANES Strand 

(out of five) 

syrupy-sweet). Tunes like "Winter on Ice" and "Punch Line Loser" shy away from pop-psychological themes of Alanis Morissette and require the listener to actually think about what Gates is saying. 
Of course, the wonderful engin<)ers at Easley Studios in Memphis wouldn't let The Spinanes get out alive without recording a few trademark popsters, so "Valency" and "For No One Else" allow listeners to revel in the past glory of Manos while recognizing the new direction the band has taken. These two tracks exemplify why The Spinanes are so great-they're sublime but fun and never pretentious. Gates proves herself to be quite capable of constructing foundations and chord changes which are challenging and unique yet accessible, and Plouf lays down crisp rhythms in tones which accent the guitars perfectly. In other words. it's a damn line album to listen to while driving while a thick fog is lifting. 
The Spinanes will be playing in Chieago on March 22. Go check 'em out. 
-by Dominic DeVito 

courtesy Sub Pop Records 

B 
ass. Besides rappers, Primus and white trash with unlimited funds to spend on stereos for their low-rid­ers, who really needs it? Obviously not Portland, Oregon's The Spinanes. Armed with little more than an elec­tric guitar, Scott Ploufs drum kit, and Rebecca Gates' haunt­ing voice, this duo is able to fill up more musical space than your average barre chord-infested punk wannabes, and they do it so magically that one tends to forget that there's no low­end on most of the songs. 
On their second release, Strand, Plouf and Gates explore more sonically varied terrain than on their stunning debut, Manos. Instead of repeatep power-pop, the songs are more diverse and less structured. Ambient organ and mellotron tones noat in and out amongst seas of guitar backwash to crnate a seemingly relaxed atmosphere on tunes such as "Madding" and "Luminous." 
However, a close listen to Gates' lyrics brings attention to tlw fact that she's not taking it easy and the gravity of her subjects isn't belied by her heavenly voice (which isn't too 

MARTA SEBESTYEN Kismet 

K 
ismet, Marta Sebestyen's latest album. delivers up another dose of her heady and unpredictable brew. Sebestyen has recorded three wonderful albums with thn traditional Hungarian folk group Muzsikas, propelled Deep Forest's Boheme to the top of the World Music Charts and into thn Grammy's, and her lirst solo album, Apocrypha. was little less than a divine revelation for many. Kismet is in many ways the most inaccessible work she has produced to date. but it certainly repays the effort invested. There is none of the instant Euro-appcal of Deep Forest, nor does a trace mmain of' Apocrypha's hypnotic rhythms and forlorn expanse. ThH transition from Apocrypha to Kismet is not unlike that from Wittgenstein's Tractatus to his Philosophical Investigations: Stark beauty gives way to complex and intri­cate texture, but the effect is no le'ss potent. 
Kismet is certainly an ah1bitious project. Working elosely with producer and multi-instrumentalist Nikola Parov, Snbestyen weaves folksongs from around the globe into a tapestry which is both ancient and modern. "Devoiko Mome," a sprightly Bulgarian dance in 5/16 kicks off the album, prov­
courtesy Rykomus1c ing that King Crimson aren't the only ones who can groove in 
Tracks Top 1 0 
I. Alanis Morissette -Jagged Little Pill 
2. 2 Pak -All f.yes on Me 
3. 
Oasis-(What:\' the Story) Morning Glory? 

4. 
Cowboy Junkies-Lay it Down 

5. 
Adam Sandler -What the Hell Happened to Me? 


6. Seven Mary Three -American Standard 
7. Hush -Sixteen Stone 
8. 
Presidents of the United States of America -selj~titled 

9. 
Smashing Pumpkins -Mellon Collie and 


the Infinite Sadness l0. Coolio -Gangsta 's Paradise 

Nocturne Top 
I. Tripmaster Monkey-Practice Changes 
2. 
No Doubt-Tragic Kingdom 

3. 
Oasis-(What's the Story) Morning Glory? 

4. 
Smashing Pumpkins -Mellon Collie & the Infinite Sadness 


5. 
Siberia -Damage 

6. 
Saturday Moming-Cartoons' Greatest Hits 

7. 
Adam Sandler -Bleeps 


H. Possum Dixon -Star Maps 
9. Supple -Puppets' Night Out l0. Tori Amos -/Joys for Pete 



music editorial 
L
ast Wednesday evening a packed Los Angeles auditorium hosted the Grammy Awards, honor­ing popular music, and to a lesser extent other musical genres, and best performers of the past year. 
The hyped up Grammys, or in the case of this year, The Hooties, must have had a difficult time choosing from the pool of talent, because only a select group of nominees had some. 
This is not to say that there were no good releases from February 1995 through February 1996, but the quality of the nominated artists' albums of either the popular or alternative genre was poor compared to what else was out there. 
Why is it that Hootie, who thrives on "three chords and the truth" wins "Best New Artist" honors when someone like Lisa Loeb who is musically superior to llootie, is not even nominated? Why did Alanis Morissette win "Album of the Year"? What happened to Hadiohead? The Bends is musically untouchable compared to Jagged Little Pill. 
The truth of the matter is that these awards shows are set up to reward marketing, not music. If Bootie or Alanis didn't sell so many millions of records and get overplayed on MTV and national radio would they win? Not a chance. The Grammys should wake up and start rewarding musically talented individuals and groups instead of mediocre talent controlled by money-hungry marketing geniuses. 

music editorial 

(out of five) 

weird time signatures. In both "Leaving Derry/Eleni" and "The Shores of Loch Brann/llazafelle," Sebestyen begins with a traditional Irish tune and runs it into a song from another folk tradition, Greek in the former instance and Hungarian in the latter. The conjunction of traditions continues with "Hindi Lullabye" (India and Homania) and the "If I Were a Hose" (Baskiria, Hungary and Tartarstan). 
The constant challenge to sueh an enterprise is to create true unity without sacrificing the individuality of the con­tributing ingredients. Unlike most recent worldbeat releases, Kismet errs, when it errs at all, by failing to integrate the sources on which it draws: the spellbinding opening to 'Hindi Lullabye' evokes echoes of Shankar, but the transition to the Romanian Mt>lody sounds a little like a cut and paste job. 'If I Were a Hose' is a more successful synthesis and features a wonderful (if restrained!) Mari vocal. Perhaps the highlight of the album is a largely a cappella rendition of an exquisite Bosnian song called 'Gold, Silver or Love. 
Sebestyen is playing with Muzsikas in Chicago on March 16th and Bloomington Match 27th: get your t<inchaz fix. 
-by Tim Bayne 

S 
helter is unlike anything you've ever heard. At first glance, they look like another mean hard­
core band...until you realize that something here is seriously different. They're not wearing any leather, their shoes contain no animal glues, and they're preaching Hare Krishna values-peace, love, animal rights, and non-materialism. Eighties-style hard-core guitars mixed with a rapping Krishna front­man make for an almost unsettling listening experi· ence. Lead singer Ray Cappo sounds at tinws almost as angry as Zach De La Hocha of Hage Against the Machine, except for the fact that Cappo is lighting for the rights of the cows we eat rather·than spewing out conspiracy theories. 
But honestly, why is Shelter as successful as they are? Their music really doesn't break any new ground and the singer doesn't have much talent. The answer is, they're a novelty net. People are worn out on the earbon copy alterna-rock being put out in mass quanti· ties today, but, like Jell-0, there's always room for some Krishna-core. Songs like "Message of the Bhagavat" and "Civilized Man" with their religious messages are a refreshing break from the usual sea of teenage angst rock. 
-by Dan Connolly, WliFI 
~-I I 
I page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, March 7, 1996 I I 
Szczechowski sent her to compete at hopes to place high in the tourna­
Notre Dame's Wilson Invitational ment.

Davis 

NCAA Automatic Bids 

Schools that have received automatic bids to the NCAA basketball tournament. 
Ohio Valley Conference Austin Peay Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference Canisius Trans America Athletic Conference Central Florida Patriot Conference Colgate Sun Belt Conference New Orleans Big South Conference North Carolina-Greensboro Midwestern Collegiate Conference Northern Illinois West Coast Conference Portland Big Ten Conference Purdue l-E;astlern Athletic Conference South Carolina State wm~::o"'un Valley Conference Tulsa Pacific 10 Conference UCLA Mid-Continent Conference Valparaiso Athletic Association Virginia Commonwealth Southern Conference Western Carolina 


The Observer/Christopher Mullins 

I I 
continued from page 20 

~ 
made a noticeable impact upon the
I 
entire squad. 

I 
"(Davis) has helped a lot of people 
I I with starts and on resistance runs," I junior high jumper Paula Kivinen I said. "By her being a really greatI runner, we can watch her and 
I 
become better." 

I 
Senior middle distance runner
I 
Michelle Wenner said that Davis's
I 
speed, coupled with her positive
I 
I 
team attitude makes Davis a special athlete, and a valuable addition to 
the team. 

"I think (Davis) is very supportive of other team members," Wenner said. "She works hard. She's a very good team member." 
Even as a freshman, Davis is no stranger to stiff competition. With an initial personal best time of only 
~ 
7:43 at the team's meet against the University of Chicago Feb. 10, Szczechowski felt that Davis would have to do better to qualify for Nationals. 
To enhance Davis's chances of achieving a faster mark, 
Meet Mar. 2, where she raced against Division I talent and even a few Olympic hopefuls. 
With a preliminary time of 7:41 at the Wilson Invitational, Davis fin­ished seventh in a field of six quali­fiers. She then ran in the consola­tion finals, winning with a 7:36. 
Szczechowski was not surprised. 
"Stacy is a competitor," he said. "She's the type who doesn't like to lose. She'll do everything in her power to get in front. 
According to junior 4X100 and 4X200 runner Theresa Zamarelli, such a competitive attitude not only affects her own performance, but the team's performance, as well. 
"Stacy's a good motivator. In practices, we always have someone in front of us, we always have some­one to beat," Zamarelli said. "She goes full-out on everything. I think Stacy can definitely hang in with the best runners. We haven't had as strong a sprinter as Stacy in the three years that I've been here." 
Ranked #13 of 15 qualifiers at Nationals, with the number one time a 7:16, Szczechowski said that a powerful start will be key if Davis 
"If Stacy gets a good start, she'll have no problems; she's got a good stride," Szczechowski said. "I would like to see her make finals, and of course place." 
Furthermore, Szczechowski said, Davis will only improve during the upcoming outdoor season. Davis's talent makes her versatile enough to experiment with different races in the team's seven remaining outdoor meets. Some of the options Szczechowski hopes to explore with Davis are the 100, 200, and 400 meters, as well as some relays. 
"I think she'll be faster outdoors," Szczechowski said. "She's faster as she runs down the track; the 55 meters is almost too short for her. If she can get around the curve on the 200, Stacy will be tough." 
Despite the high expectations of both her coach and the College, Davis said she is trying to keep a sense of perspective about her suc­cess. She leaves for New Hampton today. 
"I am still trying to get through this week of midterms, " Davis said. ''I'm just going to do my very best at Nationals. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 


Classifieds 

JUDAY CREEK gem.  Amy Weiher-Happy Anniversary,  There once was a boy named  Can I borrow this knife ma? The  
[_N_o_T_Ic_E_s_---~1  IL....-.-_w-;_1\_N_T_E_o_.....J  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch with a 17 x 25 home office & 3-car garage.  Baby!! This has been the greatest time of my life, and I am glad I final­ly got to spend one with you. I  Justin Some women thought they could trust him  poor thing, it got stuck in the fender. What do ya call it? The paw, the paw-the hoof. Yeah, the hoof.  
NAZZ!I  SUMMER JOBS  5 minutes to NO.  LOVE YOU III Love always, Pat  But when he decided to think  So now we gotta hack it off.  
March 21, 1996  ALL LAND/WATER SPORTS  REDUCED TO $149,500  He thought with his dink  
8 PM @ Stepan  PRESTIGE CHILDERN'S CAMP ­ Do you think Potter would really do  And now we're going to bust him!  
Battle of Campus Bands  ADIRONDACK MOUNTAINS  Call Karen 272-3653.  that at Mardi Gras? I think not!  Watch your back Pauly!  
Food and Drinks  NEAR LAKE PLACID  
All for Freell  1-800-786-8373  hey lmp,cep,cmn! ready for those  my poor brother philip wants a dorm  Only '4' more days until our  
Come see the best of the campus  Waterfront Condos  changes in latitudes, changes in  sweatshirt. poor philip. poor, poor  favorite townie is 21 ....  
bands compete for the coveted title  CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING·  1 Bedrooms from $52,000  attitudes? goal number one ...  philip. he's virtually naked. sure  
of NAZZ!!  Earn up to $2,000+/month working  2 Bedrooms from $80,000  would make his week if he was  
on Cruise Ships or Land-Tour com­ New Decor  oh mexico! i've never really been ...  given a sweatshirt by a visitor to  
I need a ride for Spring Break to the  panies. World travel. Seasonal &  EVERYTHING included  but I CAN'T WAIT TO GO\ !I you  Circle City. poor naked philip.  
New York City I Southern New York  full-time employment available. No  Close lo Notre Dame  can call me LULAII  You don't vote for kings!  
area. Will help drive and pay for  experience necessary.  BEAUTIFUL\  Well, 'ow'd you become king then?  
gas. Please call Dan at 4·0654.  NORTH SHORE CLUB  corbett- The lady of the Lake--her arm clad  
For more information calll-206­ 232-2002  ALUMNI FAMILY HALL  everyone loves you.  in the purest shimmering samite,  
WATCH OUT FOR THE JAMAICA  971-3550 ext.C55843  The on-campus summer hotel for  held aloft Excalibur from the bosom  
HOOP SQUAD AT A TAVERN  Alumni and friends is now hiring full  ATIENTION ALL BOYS:  of the water, signifying by divine  
NEAR YOU-THEY WILL BE  BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED  Rossignal Skis(190) w/Tyrolia 420  and part-time summer employment.  Please realize that teeth kissing is  providence that I, Arthur, was to  
APPEARING AT BRIDGETS ON  TOP$$$ PAID  bindings & poles (gd cond) $150.  Any student who wishes to stay on  NOT considered pleasurable by  carry Excalibur. THAT is why I am  
FRIDAY AFTERNOON!I!!!I!!  (800)269-5849  It's a steal 273-9176 (Trent).  campus for the summer is encour­ women. All it does is make our lips  your king!  
aged to apply. Enjoy a summer of  hurt.  Listen: Strange women lying in  
LIFE MOVES PRETTY FAST, IF  $ Cruise Ships Hiring! Students  Mac Powerbook Duo 230 w/dock,  meeting Alumni and gaining valu­ ponds distributing swords is no  
YOU DONT STOP EVERY ONCE  Needed! $$$+Free Travel  230 MG HD, 8 RAM, 14in. color  able experience. Pick up an appli­ THE CUBS WILL WIN IT ALL THIS  basis for a system of government!  
AND A WHILE TO LOOK AROUND  (Caribbean, Europe, Hawaii!)  monitor, Multimedia kit, ext. soft­ cation in the Alumni Office, Main  YEARI!\ RYNO IS BACK AND NO  Supreme power derives from a  
YOU MIGHT MISS IT-FERRIS  Seasonal/Permanent, No Exper.  ware incl. $2200, call 234-2766  Building, and return it by March 18.  MAN CAN STOP HIM.  mandate from the masses. not from  
Necessary. GDE.  some farcical aquatic ceremony!  
The Michiana Paintball Club now has an Indoor Paintball field in  919-929-4398 ext C1114  TICKETS  Calif. actress-writer wife & photog­ Hey buddy can you say Cold Day in Hell!!!  BE QUIET! You can't expect to wield supreme  
South Bend -Free membership.  rapher husband wish to adopt new­ power just because some watery  
291-9462  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Students  WANTED: BIG EAST&FINAL  born. Will provide love, nurturing  blumdog and LSF,  tart throws a sword at you.  
ILOST & FOUND I  Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation!  FOUR TICKETS. WILL PAY$$$. CALL DAYS (800)444-8425. EVE (908)536-3431  environ., educ., financial security. Hollywood Hills home has large back yard and loving dog. Call  technically, I think you belong in the sixth circle. you're in for the long hall. how  They send him cheesy movies. The worst they can find.  
Male or Female. No experience  818/241-5535 collect. Legal &  about some combos  LA LA LA.  
LOST -at Cavanaugh/St.Ed's Formal: long navy blue wool  necessary. Call (206)971-3510 exiA55844  PERSONAL  Confidential.  and some cigarettes for the 5'2" and LES team?  Remember that Joel can't control when the movies begin or end  
woman's coat and men's navy blaz­ Attention  because he used those special  
er both at Alumni/Senior Bar on Friday night. Please call x-1407  FOR RENT  05/17 03/19  -Class of 1998­Help us be your voice ...  !1!!!!!1!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!  parts to design his robot friends  
0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  Applications for the 1996-97  1!!!!!1  ROBOT ROL CALL  
Please Help!  IRISH CO. B&B REGISTRY  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKLY!!!  Junior Class Council are  DO YOU HAVE AN INTERESTING  Cambot.. ..Gypsy .... Tom Servo ....  
I lost my long black coat at Senior  Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE  THE COPY SHOP  available for pick-up in the  STORY ABOUT YOUR LOVE  Crooooooooooow!!!!  
Bar on 2123. Please call if you  HOUSE" or other approved homes.  LaFortune Student Center  Student Government Office  LIFE?? I NEED RESEARCH FOR  If you're wondering how they eat  
know where it is. Thanks.  Grad. -Football games  Phone 631-COPY  (2nd floor LaFortune).  A STEAMY SEXY LOVE NOVEL I  and breathe. and other science  
Laura  219-277-7003  0a0a0a0a0a0a0o0o0o0a0  Applications due: 3-20-96  AM WRITING! THE JUCIER THE  facts  
x1553  GRIFFIN • FREEDY  BEITER. PLEASE DESCRIBE  LALALA  
Faculty or student  FAX IT FAST!II  NOLAN • STRONSKY  EVERY HOT MINUTE! I  Repeat to yourself, "it's just a show  
LOST-FOSSIL WATCH  4 Bdrm -2 baths turn.  Sending & Receiving  "The Voice of 98"  CALL ELLEN RYAN@4824  I should really just relax"  
I lost a brown fossil watch with a  appliances-washer-dryer  at  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!\!!!!!!  for mystery science theatre 3000 ...  
brown woven band and a blue face.  attached 2 car garage off street  THE COPY SHOP  DO YOU LIKE TO WRITE?  !!!!1!1  
It has great sentill'uo:natal value! If  parking. Available in Aug. for lease.  LaFortune Student Center  Join the Saint Mary's Observer  Kevina,  
found please call Amy at x2326.  234-1336 lv Msg  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  staff. We want you.  Congrats on your win. I am so  
FAX IT FAST!I!  Call Caroline Blum 631-4540 or  I AM GIVING UP MY TICKETS TO  proud, you are now a true "Midnight  
Lost-gold clauddaugh ring  CLAY Twnshp-NEW OFFERING:  284-4349.  GRADUATION!!! PLEASE CALL  Classic." --­Luscious  
(heart with surrounding hands)  1, 2 & 3 Bedrooms Available:  Enthralling Conversation  ME AT 634-4334 AND ASK FOR  
at JPW -the gala dance  $350.00 -$500.00/mo Utilities  Guaranteed in exchange for ride to  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  PAUL  Mitchell. Pardon me ..... Mitchell.  
-great sentimental value.  INCLUDED. 272-1968.  Harrisburg, PA or nearby on Friday  NEED MONEY FOR  
Angela x4704  March 8 after 1 :05 pm. Will pay  SPRING BREAK?  Happy Birthday tomorrow to Chris  M-Beer,  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  share of tolls, gas, etc.  Morrissey Student Loan Fund  Fereday!  How's the little den of slack? If you  
FOUND  219-291-7153  Dooley Rm(Across from info desk)  love, us  promise to just tie the bag every­ 
I accidently picked up the wrong  Please call Erin ASAP x3777  M-F 11 :30am -12:30pm  thing will be fine. I'll take it out.  
jacket from Bridgets's. If you lost a  HOMES FOR RENT  one day waiting period  Love, the heathen  
Columbia jacket there, call Eddie at  232-2595  RIDE DESIRED:  30 day loan @ 1% interest  two soft tacos, no meat.  PS: I TOLD you they wouldn't kill  
x4010.  FROM Southern NY or Northern NJ  LAST DAY FOR SENIORS IS  small diet pepsi.  him in a freak skydiving accident.  
5 bdrms, 2 full baths, alarm sys,  back to Campus on March 17th.  FRIDAY, MARCH 8, 1996  That's all I think I want.  
 
LOST  refrig, stove, partially furnished.  Will pay share and keep driver  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  I will win. I will win.  hey amy can i have a diet coke?  
I lost a green fleece Eddie Bauer  Heat incl. Completely remodeled.  entertained for hoursl Brian x1173  love, hac  
pullover at Bridget's. If you found it  606 N. St. Peter.  They don't make 'em any finer than  Where's your heart?  
 
please call Eddie at x40 1 0  289-5999 or 255-9471  Lisa the archie who lives on Bulla  Ryan Walsh and Matt Golish  And don't plead drunken debauch­ Llamas are larger than frogs.  
Mark Kramer.  Road is a babe! Grrrrr!  ery.  If you are swimming, you may see a  
LOST SAPPHIRE EARRING­ They don't make 'em any finer than  llama. Shout, "Look out! There are  
dark blue stone. Great Sentimental Value!!! If found please call Amy at  FOR SALE  "Ziggy played for time, jiving us that we were voodoo  Ryan Walsh and Matt Golish  hi memoPf loss.  llamas!"  
4-4836  The kids were just crass,  Occupied & Sex  yeah, we'll talk later. it's later now.  Sloppy Ro,  
H P 48G sci calc w/ chem app card  he was the NAZZ  Our bad influence has drawn in two  five days later.  Mrs. Peacock was a MAN?!?---Gl  
FOUND: Calculator in lockers at  x3692  With the Gid given ass  more! Soon we will be out of con­ 
NSH, problably for the Mon. 12:20  He took it all too far but boy could  trol!  Thanks for the check, Saint  Hi Tenille. love Doug  
ChemLab. Call X2061 to identify.  1421 N. Oak Hill Dr., by owner,  he play guitar''  Ringo  Anthony. Now what can you do  Hi Kim, love Brad  
>.  LOST: a silver pin with the  immaculate, two full baths, garage, finished lower level, walk to NO,  You too can be the NAZZ -or at least be at NAZZ  Foran Foran Foran Foran Foran  about the brown docs? And this other kid is missing two !-shirts.  Hi Tenille, love Kim Hi Doug, well, uh... uh ... from Brad  
enscribed word: BELIEVE. This  range, dishwasher, microwave,  8pm March 21 -Stepan  How's  
 
piece of jewelery has much senti­ refrigerator, washer/dryer, garage  Your  Hey, Che P.-be 6'6", 220 by  brad prendergasl embodies the vio­ 
mental meaning. Please call Kerry  door opener, $77,900,  Happy Anniversary CLARKE ..  F.F.?  August and prove 'em all wrong.  lence inherent in the system.  
at 4-2493 11 found. Thanks.  ph. 277-8898  You big L ..'!!l!!l!l  Your pal, B.C. from N.Y.C.  
---------------­ 

Thursday, March 7, 1996 
The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
--------------~ 
Sey1nour 
continued from page 20 
but thn n~st of these guys should stay around and see what's to conw." 
Indeed, 1.1 Irish scholarship playnrs will undergo this expe­rience at least once more hefore tlwir time in the blue and gold conws to an end. 
Thn diiTernncn is, future Irish teams will havn had somn ex­posurn. albeit (;riel", to the roller­coaster intt~nsity that characterizes tlw Big East Championship. 
"The othnr teams worn already ex1wrinnced with this," said junior Marcus Young. "Wn wen~ the ones who were widn-eynd. looking around at everything." 
Noire Damn's youthfulness was one or its downfalls against the snnior-dorninaled Orangnmnn. Tlw Irish •~xhihitnd tlw poise to disarm Syracusn's presstll'l!, but tlwn got overanxious on tlw omm­sivn nr1d. 
Sopholl\01'1\ llernk Ma11nnr was whistled for lUI urHI~>niahle charge wlwn Noln! Damn had a numlwrs­advantagt\ on thn brnak. as was junior point guard Admorn White. 
l;l'l!shman (;ary Btdl was also a culprit. missing sonw easy shots on tlw hnHtk and getting anotlwr two 
hlockt~d. 
Nnxt ynar may be diiTernnt. Notm l>anw's core group of play­nrs arn currently freshmen and sophomon!s, all of whom will be a 
ynar  oldor  and  wiser  to  the  
dmnands of the conference.  
"Our lnarning expt~rienen  is  now  

ovt~r." said frnshman Phil llickny. "Wt~ don't havn to worry about not knowing what to expect. Now we know that you have to be physical and play hard t!Very night." 
Changing expt~ctation are a cru­cial ingred it\n t, aq:ordi ng to lloover. Knowing who the op­ponents are and what the situa­tions are is one thing, but knowing that you ean handle them is anoth­er. 
"Our guys have to get to a point where they expect to win," said 
lloover.  "That's the difference  
between  us  and the top-notch  
teams."  

Next season the Irish have a chance to move closer to those top­notch tl\ams. 
While Notre Dame returns fo'ur starters, the senior talent that dominates the rest of the confer­ence will pnddle their wares else­where. 
All of which makes the expe­rience of this season's conference tournament even more crucial. 
"Tht~rc is a light at the end of the tunnel," said freshman Doug Gottlieb. "We'll be a better team because of everything that's hap­pened this year." 
"This was a good experience," agr()ed dassmatn Gary Bell. "That was what we needed to make us hungrier next year." 
And though the end result was dissatisfying, tho chaos that sur­rounds the Garden on opening night has given the Irish a taste of just how exciting conference play can he. 
'This game was a lot of fun to play in," said Pat Garrity. "The problem was everyone was shying away, so the final score wasJ).'t much fun t look at." 
Hoover knows that better than anyone. 
The four-year starter struggled in his last game for the Irish, whieh was simultaneously his first and last experience with the Big East tournament. 
"That was a disappointing end­ing," said Hoover. "But it's just the way life goes that you have to take advantage of every opportunity." 
For the rest of the Irish, that opportunity returns next March. 

Big East 
continued from page 20 

"Down the stretch we went to John and he got the job done," said Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim, whose team will face Boston College in today's quarterfinal: 
"We were smarter in the second half," continued Boeheim. "When John got the ball in the post and was double-teamed, we kept moving and got the ball in better posi­tion." 
The Irish had no counter for Wallace's low post heroics. Syracuse's se.cond half zone defense confounded Notre Dame, which shot 36% for the game. 
Senior Ryan Hoover was especially thrown off by the zone. Playing in his last collegiate game, Hoover was held to eight points on 3­11 shooting after scoring 24 in the previous game against the Orangemen. 
"I wasn't getting many good looks," said Hoover, "They were very cognizant of where I was, and shaded a guy over in the zone." 
"Syracuse did a great job on Iloover," agreed Notre Dame coach John MacLeod. "They forced him out further than he i's com­fortable with, and this caused him to take some bad shots." 
Syracuse's suffocating defense helped 
. extend a 32-29 halftime advantage to a 14 point lead with 10 minutes to play. Wallace scored 12 points during that stretch, includ­ing the first six of the second half, as the Orangemen were poised to put the game out of reach." "Wallace is their all-American and they take care of him.~' said Hoover. "The rest make sure to get him his points." Notre Dame had an answer, though, going on a 9-0 run of its own to trim the lead to five with 5:33 left on an Admore White three-pointer. White had an opportunity to cut even further into the lead, but missed 
two free throws on the next possession. 
Syracuse righted itself, as Jason Cipolla picked lloover on the fast hrnak, leading to Lazarus Sims' three-pointer and a 10 point cushion the Orangemen would never relin­quish. 
The Irish managed only two points in the 
last 4:51, as Syracuse removed all drama 
from the game by connecting on all ten of its 
free throws down the stretch. 
The first half, by contrast, was the most exciting of any of the afternoon preliminar­ies. The Irish traded dunk for dunk with the more athletic Orangemen, as Pat Garrity (20 points, 8 rebounds} and Matt Gotsch fol­lowed a Hyan Hoover three-pointer with jams to give Notre Dame a 21-16 lead. 
The transition game would becomn Notre Uame's downfall, though. The Irish were able to break Syracuse's press with relative ease but had trouble linishing at the other end. 
"(We regained the lead) not because our press is good, but probably becausn it's hor­rible," said Boeheim. "They got by it, but Otis Hill played smart under the basket." 
llill, one of four Orangemen to finish in double figures (Wallace, Cipolla, and Sims were the others), drew a number of charges to complement his blocked shots, thwarting the Irish on numerous occasions. 
The only Notre Damn player not affectnd on the break was Garrity, who rebounded from one of his poorest efforts of the season on Saturday with a strong all-around game the second time around. 
"(Saturday's game} was one of the first times when everyone was playing well and then I was the dog out there, " said Garrity. "I wasn't going to let that happen again." 
He didn't, but he also didn't have enough help. Freshman Gary Bell (11 points} was the only other Irish player in the double lig­ures, while Notre Dame committed 17 turnovers and gave up the 16 offensive rebounds. 
7/?~ea~UYd~ &d~wvd cv ~ecva~&~otY ad 


Day of Reflection: 
Responses to Abortion after John Salvi 
1:00-5:00, Sunday, April14, 1996 The Center for Continuing Education 
en to 100 Under 
1:15-3:00
1:00-1:15 

Showing of 
PBS) 



F' al

Gathering 
~· 

p
t 


Gathetlng and 

and Comments
Orientation 

Abortion Row" 
The Documentary tlescr·ibes the events leading up to John Salvi's killing of ahm·­tion pr·oviders and the many responses following, from fl'ientls, family, mul pub­lic figures ft·om Cm·dinal Bernard Law to radical theologian Maa·y Daly. 

Pizza Served Afterwards 
Registered at the Campus Ministry Office in Hesburgh Library or e-mail: jcapizzi@eworld.com 
Sponsored hy Can1pus Ministry, the Center for Continuing Education, the Center for Social Concerns, the Law School, and the Theology Department 
See also the letter to the editor in today's Observer 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 7, 1996 
Track 
continued from page 20 
in the NCAA indoor champi­
onships this weekend. 
"Mike Fleisch may be the most-improved athlete on this campus," Piane said. "He im­proved his distance from 52 feet to 57 feet this season. That's like taking a basketball player who scored four points a game and having him score twenty-four." 
Senior Lamarr Justice added the list of Irish top finishers with his performance in the triple jump. 
Justice's jump of 49'05.00 merited fourth place at the last weekend's meet. 
Junior Matt Alhoff placed third in the 5,000 meter run, recording a time of 14:29.7, while sophomore Errol Williams finished fourth place in the 55 meter hurdles with a time of 7.48. 
The distance medley, consisting of Williams, Pat Gorman, Derek Seiling, and Jeff Hojnacki, followed the teams of Villanova and Georgetown for a third place finish at 9:50.66. 
Hojnacki joins Fleisch, along with women's star Berit Junker, as the representatives for the Irish at this weekend's nationals. 
Hojnacki achieved a person­al best time of 1:48.86 in the 800 meter run at the Alex Wilson Invitational, hosted by the Irish, to provisionally qual­ify him for this weekend's meet. 
This is also the first visit to· the indoor nationals for Hojnacki, which has been a goal for him for the last three years. 
"My goal has been to make it to this meet," Hojnacki com­mented. "But now that I've achieved that, my goal is to keep my head in it and con­vince myself that I can com­pete at this level." 
Junker, who has consistently been a leader this season, will be the lone female competitor for the Irish in the 800 meters. 
"Berit has had a marvelous season," Piane commented. "She will have a great chance down in Indianapolis." 
The Irish had other athletes who were provisional quali­fiers but didn't make the cut. The NCAA takes the top eight performances, and then the coaches decide from there who will be the provisional qualifiers. 
Justice and sophomore Jason Hexing were two of the athletes who nearly made the nationals. 
"Some of our standards are more stringent than the Olympics," Piane said. "It is not often that someone will pull off a surprise perfor­mance and make the nation­als." 
Piane cited consistancy as the key qualifying factor for the athletes. 
"Some people will put up one great run a season, but it is the one who Is cvnsistent that will make it to the cham­pionships." 
• SPUfHS BFtiEfS 
Intercollegiate Bowling: Any students~interested in collegiate bowling competi­tion, please call Jason at 4­1065. 
lnterhall Sports: All off­campus women interested in playing interhall soccer please call Bridget at 273­2284. 


Indiana spoils senior night at Ohio State, 73-56 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
It was supposed to be senior night at Ohio State, but it ended up belonging to Indiana's se­niors. 
Todd Lindeman scored a ca­reer-high 28 points -taking and making more free throws in a game than he ever had before -and Brian Evans chipped in with 18 points as Indiana beat Ohio State 73-56 Wednesday night. 
Evans scored 12 points as Indiana broke away to a 25-11 lead, then was content to flip passes inside to Lindeman. Time and again, Lindeman was fouled by Ohio State's undersized and inexperienced post players as he muscled his way to the hoop. 
"We cam.e in hoping to take it inside on them," Lindeman said. "We tried to pound it inside and get them in foul trouble. That's just what we did." 
Lindeman, a 7 -foot senior, hit 14-of-16 free throws to go with 7 -of-13 from the field. 
He came into the game shoot­ing 50 percent from the line. 


They Shelled it out for your orthodontist bills. Gxlglled. it up for your car insurance. And forked it over for that fish tank accident. 
Yet they still insist you call COllect. Touched by their undying love, you spare them further expense. You dial 1 800 CALL ATT. 
1 800 CALL ATT always costs less than t-soo-coLLECT." 
And always gets you the reliable ~ Network. 
Use it wllenet•er you're off campus. 
Know the Code. 1 800 CALL ATT. That's Your True Choice;'M 

ATs.T 
Your True Choice 
• For interstate calls. Promotions excluded. 1-800-COLLECT is a registered trademark of MCI. © 19% A1&T 
--------~-~ ~---------------~--~--------­
Thursday, March 7, 1996 
The Observer· MARCH MADNESS page 15 
--------------~~~~~ 
Floyd selected as Big Eight Coach of the Year 
By DOUG TUCKER 
As~ocia1cd Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 

Tim Floyd, whose Iowa State Cyclones may be the biggest surprise in college basketball, was a unanimous choice Wndnesday as Assoeiawd Press Big Eight Coach of the Year. 
SixttHlll broadcasters and sports writers gave every vote to the leadtlr of the Big Eight's second-place team, which suit­ed the boss of tlw first-place tnarn just fine. 
"Thn job Tim Floyd did this year was masterful," Kansas coach Hoy Williams said. 
After Iowa State lost virtually everybody from last year's team that was 23-11, logic had Floyd wallowing in the conference basement, patiently laying the foundation for better things down the road. 
Instead, the Cyclones go into the conference tournament Friday ranked No. 23 in the nation with a 20-8 record, seed­ed No. 2 after finishing the reg­ular season race ahead of all but Kansas. 
"It all goes back to expecta­tions," said Floyd, 42. "What I'll remember most is 

Forward Ryan Minor and Oklahoma will be one of six teams trying to upset Kansas in the Big Eight tournament this weekend. Minor led the conference with a 20.2 points per game average during the year. 
all the fun our players and our fans were able to have this year, in a year that was sup­posed to be a down time for Io.wa State." 
All the preseason gloom sur­rounding the Cyclones was per­fectly understandable. 
When Johnny Orr retired in 1994, he left his successor with one of the best senior classes in school history. Blessed with such experienced, talented op­eratives as Fred lloiberg, Loren Meyer and Julius Michalik, Floyd's first Iowa State team wound up No. 24 in the final AP rankings and secured an NCAA tournament bid. 
But when diplomas were handed out last spring, the good times figured to be over. Floyd said goodbye to Hoiberg, Michalik and Meyer among his top nine scorers from 1994-95. 
Fans prepared for a painful rebuilding year. But they didn't figure on vastly improved point guard Jacy Holloway, who had shared playing time the year before with since departed Jason Kimbrough. 
They also didn't figure on 6­foot-4 junior college transfer Kenny Pratt or 6-11 Kelvin Cato, a transfer from South Alabama. 
Most of all, everybody failed to foresee what a sudden, dra­matic impact would be made by Dedric Willoughby. The 6-3 transfer from Indian Hills (Iowa) Community College had played at New Orleans during Floyd's last season there but had been out of basketball en­tirely for a year. 
Holloway quickly emerged as one of the league's most consis­tent, efficient guards. Pratt av­eraged 15.3 points and was fourth in the league in steals. Cato became a forceful inside presence, ranking among the league leaders in rebounds and blocked shots. 
Willoughby was second to Oklahoma's Hyan Minor with 
20.2 points per game, giving Floyd's Cyclones a consistent, dependable scoring threat game after game, as well as a large measure of leadership. 

Graduation Catering Student Worl~ers Needed 
$$May 11-19 $$ Free Room/Board Special Graduation Pay Rate 
Room contract sign-ups begin on: Monday, March 18 ~ 1O:OOAM -5:00PM) Last day to sign contract is April 3 
Catering Office 631-5449/8792 Lower level-South Dining Hall 

Friday,  Saturday,  Sunday,  
March&  March9  March10  
(1) Kansas  
--~'*""'''"''•''•'•  
(8) Colorado  '"='  
1:00p.m.  

2:00p.m. 
{5) Kansas State 
··'··:··::::·<··=~~::::w.::'$····'.· ~ 
{4) Oklahoma State 3:20p.m. 
1:00 p.m. 

(2) Iowa State 
,..,.__l ~~~~!ska },...'---....... 
7:00p.m. 
4:20p.m. !,,. .---------..., 
(3) Oklahoma 
,;::,.~·=~~ 
: 

...-.................--......
(6) Missouri 
...J ~· 
9:20p.m. 
CONFERENCE 

Photo courtesy of Marquette Sports lnfonmalion Center Amal McCaskill leads Marquette and the nation's second best scoring defense into Conference USA's inaugural conference tourna­ment. While Conference USA does not have an automatic bid, five teams are expected to be invited to the NCAA tournament. 
Conference USA  
Wednesday, March 8  Thursday, March 7  Friday, March 8  Saturday, March 9  
(4) Louisville 1 p.m. {5) Tulane  
(9) St. Louis (8) Southern Miss  (1) Cincinnati 3:30p.m. (9)St.Louis  
(3) Marquette  
7:00p.m.  

(6) Alabama·Birm 
"''*~-~-·-~-~-I 
(11) South Florida  -··· ·  
(2) Memphis  
9:30p.m.  
(7) North Carolina  
(10) OePaul  



•Ifyou have never worked on campus, please bring a picture ID & either an original social security card, birth certificate or unexpired employment authorization document (please call Catering for further information) 
-
I I page 16 The Observer· MARCH MADNESS Thursday, March 7, 1996 I 
r 
I I 
I ACC hopes to play larger role in tourney 
I 
I 
I By TOM FOREMAN Jr. I Associated Press I I GREENSBORO, N.C. I It has been 22 years since 
I 
the NCAA expanded its postsea­son tournament field to allow ! more teams to compete for the national championship. So why
I 
are so many Atlantic Coast

I 
Conference coaches in a sweat?

I 
About to begin the 43rd an­

I 
Carolina State (14-15, 3-13). Essentially, those two teams are the longest shots and need to win the tournament title to advance to the postseason. 
Friday's quarterfinals open with a pa·ir of teams whose NCAA hopes may hinge on their success in Greensboro. Duke (18-11, 8-8) meets Maryland (16-11, 8-8) in the noon show­down. 

nual tourna-.---------------------------------~----------, 
~:n~. 1 ~~~v~~ Atlantic ~JW~!!.l.~onference 
edge because 
observers feel T~~~~~a/'the list of favorites to 
win the ACC championship (8) Florida State 
is nearly as 
(9) North Carolina St.
long as the league stand-7:30p.m. ings. If top 
seed Georgia Tech wins the tournament, it could help bringasmany 
as four other teams into the NCAA field. 
Put the 
name of a longshot on the title tro­phy and s o m e o n e could get 

~~'!':78 5~!~~a:· ~~r~~afo 
(1)GeorgiaTech 
2 30
: p.m. 
.........""""'"'"~'!' 
1 
1=30 p.m. 

(4) Duke 
Noon· 

(S) Maryland 
, "''""""""""' 

(2)WakeForest 
-~~~""•m~""'*"-'i 
7 00 
= p.m. ' 

(7)~i.r,~~!.,••~·M,..r~·#-··-""'""w.l· 1 4:00p.m.
(3) North Carolina 
s.·aop.m....1. 
i--""""'""'""~ 

(6)Ciemson 
·· ···-·"'-· · 

s Jig h ted, like L------------------------------------------------l that apparently
the Yellow Jackets, whose 18-12 record in 1995, including an 8-8 ACC mark, didn't sway the NCAA selection committee. That's why coach Bobby Cremins came up with a suggestion this week to make sure no ACC clubs suffer such a slight again. 
"We need to get at least eight to 10 more teams" in the NCAA tournament, Cremins said Tuesday during the ACC's weekly teleconference. "I know 64 is a perfect number for TV. But, again, when you finish fifth in the ACC at .500 and have 18 wins and you don't get into the tournament ... then, there's a problem." 
It could be a problem for sev­eral ACC teams to ponder as the conference tournament opens. Thursday night's first-round game is between Florida State (13-13, 5-11} and North 

Duke may have aided its cause with a late-season victory over UCLA, part of a five-game winning streak that was halted in the regular-season finale against North Carolina. 
Maryland was picked to win the ACC title by the region's sportswriters and broadcasters, but the Terrapins needed a strong finish just to get a fourth-place tie with Duke. 
"I would hope that both of us have bids," Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. 'Tm not con­fident about anything until I see it. I think both our squads are most deserving of bids." 
Krzyzewski even went so far as to say he expects five or six ACC teams to get NCAA invita­tions. 
Georgia Tech (20-10, 13-3) has the 2:30 p.m. game Friday with the winner of the Florida 
CABLE TV SCHEDULE FOR MARCH MADNESS 
March 7th -9th Cable TV schedule for March Madness 
Thursday: ... 
Noon Atlantic 10 Quarterfin!ll· ESPN 
Noon BIG EAST QuarterfinaJ -ESPN2 
f p.m. Conference USA quarterfinal • Sports
2:30 p.m. BIG EAST Qu~rterfinal • ESPN Q:30 p.m. Atlantic 10 Quarterfinal-ESPN2 .5 p.m. North Atlantic Qhampionship-ESPN2 '7 p.m. BIG EAST Quarterfinal -ESPN2 .· 7 p.m. Conference USA Quarterfinal • Spa 
.. 7:30 p.m. ACC 1st round -ESPN /f9:30 p.m. BIG EI\$T Quarterfinal -ESPtt 9:30p.m. Atlanpc 10 Quarterfinal-~SPN2 
9:30 p.m. Cg_nference USA Quarte;:final • Sports Channel 
,/':· ~<· 
Friday> Noon: ACC Quarterfinal ~.ESPN 

1p.m. Big Eight Quarterfinal -ESPN2 

2 p.m: ACC Q~arterfinal -ESPN 
3 p.m. BiQ Eight Quarterfinal -ESPN2 
·"*"' 4:30 p.m. Northeast Charnp!pnship -ESPN 
7 p.m. BIG EASTSemffinar~ ESPN'"''""''""''""'"""'M": 
\ 7 p.m. ACC Quarterfinal -ESPN2 
9 p.m. BIG EASTSe.!llifinal • ESPN 
.m. ACC Quarterfinal -ESPN2 
1 . WAC S{:lmifinal ~ESPN2
,, 
Saturday: 11 :30 a.m. Mid-American Championship -ESPN 

12:30 p.m. ACC Semifinal -ESPN 2 p.m. Big Eight Semifinal -ESPN2 
3:30 p.m. ACC Semifinal -ESPN 4 p.m. Big Eight Semifinal -ESPN2 
6:30 p.m. Atlantic 10 Championship -ESPN 
8:30 p.m. BIG EAST Championship -ESPN midnight Big West Semifinal -ESPN2 
State-N.C. State contest. 
The night session begins with another team that expects an NCAA invitation against a team that is the third of the league's three long shots. Second-seeded Wake Forest (20-5, 12-4} goes against Virginia (12-14, 6-10). The Cavaliers need a three­game run of luck at the Greensboro Coliseum to get to 
the NCAA. 
The final game 
~;:~1sd~~~~;:; 
North Carolina(20-9, 10-6) meets Clemson (17-9, 7-9) in what league om­cials hope will be 
a peaceful meet­ing between Tar Heel coach Dean Smith, going for his 22nd NCAA straight tour­nament appear­ance, and Tiger coach Rick Barnes, who is trying to break Clemson's five-year absence from the field. Neither man is commenting about past s q u a b b l e s between the two 
were settled at ACC commissioner Gene Corrigan's house Iat~ last month. Barnes has basketball on his mind and he knows there is only one thing that will get his team on the NCAA's list next Sunday evening. 
"I know at this time of year, everybody starts politicking," Barnes said. "The only thing that can assure you of getting to the NCAA tournament at this time of year and where we are right now is to win basketball games." 

Photo courtesy of Carolina Court Magazine Guard Dante Calabria and North Carolina are considered a lock to take part in March Madness, but there are several ACC teams who may be on the bubble as the selection committee prepares its decision. 


Thursday, March 7, 1996 The Observer • MARCH MADNESS page 17 


Respect other people's rights, and your own, to choose not to drink. Respect state laws and carnpus policies. 
Stay out of out of dangerous situations involving alcol1ol, whether in a car, a bar, or a bedroom. 
If a friend drinks to the point of passing out, alcot1ol poisoning is a real danger. If you are concerned, seek rnedical attention. Better safe than sorry! 
Sponsored by the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education 

Rernember you don't have to be "drunk" to be impaired­impairment begins with the first drink. Be safe with a designated driver. 
Wear your seat belt It's' your best protection against a drunk driver. 
---~-------­

-----------------~------------~-~--­
page 18 

The Observer· MARCH MADNESS Thursday, March 7, 1996 
• BIG EAST BASKETBALl 

Hurricanes, Friars advance 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Kevin Norris is Miami's dis­tributor. burdened with getting the ball to the right place at the right time. On Wednesday night, he became the right place at the most important time. 
Norris cut short a Rutgers comeback by scoring 11 straight points down the stretch, leading the Hurricanes to a 77-6 7 victory in the open­ing round of the Big East tour­nament. 
The win moved Miami (15-12) into Thursday's quarterfinals against No. 6 Georgetown (24­6). 
Coach Leonard Hamilton knows the Hurricanes face a tough assignment in Georgetown, the tournament's second seed. 
"That's the most prestigious team in the league," he said. "To win the Big East, you have to go through Georgetown and Connecticut. We might as well get them now." 
Norris knows it will be tough against the Hoyas' Allen Iverson, the Big East's leading scorer and Defensive Player of the Year. 
''I'm in for a dogfight," he said. 
He set up the confrontation with his streak scoring down the stretch against Rutgers. 
"I was open for shots because my teammates executed well," Norris said. 
Rutgers trailed by 15 points in the first half and 41-32 at halftime. 

The Scarlet Knights (9-18) were down 56-40 in the second half when they rallied behind the long range shooting of Geoff Billet. 
He finished with 25 points and helped Rutgers draw to 63­62. 
Then Norris got hot. The 5­foot-9 point guard scored con­secutive baskets, one a 3-point­er, and then connected on six straight foul shots. 
Rutgers' only points during the run was Billet's seventh 3­pointer of the game. By then, though, Miami had restored its lead to 10 points and the Hurricanes were never threat­ened again. 
"Miami deserves credit," Rutgers coach Bob Wenzel said. "They played a good game with strong defense. I'm sad because we played a bad game in our last game of the year. I'm annoyed because we didn't play our best." 
Norris finished with 20 points and seven assists. 
Miami's Steve Edwards added 17 points, including five 3­pointers, and Tim James had 12 points. 
For Rutgers, completing its first season in the Big East, Billy Gilligan scored 14 points and Andrew Kolbasovsky had 11. 
Providence 80, St. John's 72 
NEW YORK Austin Croshere and Ruben Garces each had 17 points, and 
THE~: St':l~. 
...... ~ \~ 
--=-----· -­

<·cLUB. ~ 
is hiring 
Providence closed the game with a 13-4 run for an 80-72 victory over St. John's on Wednesday night in the open­ing round of the Big East tour­nament. · 
The sixth-seeded Friars (17­10), who probably clinched themselves an at-large berth in the NCAA tournament, play third-seeded and ninth-ranked Villanova on Thursday in the quarterfinals. 
Providence, which dominated the boards, especially on the offensive end, led 61-50 with 
12:04 to play only to see St. John's (11-16) take the lead at 68-67 with 4:12 left on a 3­pointer by Felipe Lopez. 
The Friars got the lead back for good 24 seconds later on a rebound basket by Jamel Thomas and they expanded it on consecutive possessions by hitting shots as the shot clock wound down. 
Michael Brown made a 3­pointer with three seconds left on the 35-second clock to make it 72-68, and Thomas made a foul-line jumper that barely beat the buzzer with 58 sec­onds to play. That made it 74­68. 
Zendon Hamilton led the Red Storm with 20 points, while Lopez had 18. 
Providence finished with a 44-29 rebound advantage, 27-8 on the offensive end. Garces and Thomas each had nine re­bounds, while Croshere fin­ished with seven. Thomas had 15 points. 
The Friars closed the regular season by winning seven of 10, 

BARTENDERS 
for the 96-97 Season. 
Pick up Applications at Student Activities, 315 LaFortune. 
Must be 2 1 + by September, 1996 

while St. John's lost 10 of 13. back next season. Mahoney has 
The Red Storm were playing a 56-58 record in his four sea­under speculation that coach sons since replacing Lou Brian Mahoney may not be Carnesecca. 
Please Recycle the Observer 
BIKE SALE 
0 

March 7, 8, 9 & 10 
c 
The hot new '96 bikes are here. Fantastic selection

B I K E · ­of models & colors. 
SPECIALISfS ALL AT lOo/o OFF! 
211 E. Main St., Niles, Ml (616) 683-3100 
#16 Notre Dame vs. Kansas State 
10:00 a.m. 

#16 Notre Dame vs. Drake 
4:00p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion •Admission: FREE! 
Thursday, March 7, 1996 The Observer • TODAY 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCALYPSE DAVE KELLETT 

JOE MARTIN

MISTER BOFFO 
CELEl<Y' !? TWENtY-FIVE. IHOl.)S.!I.NP CAL.QeiES ·· · 
AI\!V VO~T e/EN ASk' A'60JI COTT.t>.G£ CHEESE .' t>J.tffi.\El( WAY iD1EU.. WI-lEN YrufZ u FE"!; f\Vr W::0(1 N& cx.rr AS waL A~ YOU'D 1-bPE.V' 
DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
.--------_-_-_---_ -_ -~--_-_-_ -_ -_ .....,-i" r--------------, or--------------. 
r o ~ 
I \-\EA.RD YOU WERE 
OOING 
501'1\E 
YEAH! l DID u IT'S NOT E.A.SY TO z 
IT'S THE ~RTONS 
~ 
WITH A. QUESTION

THE. MORTON J"UGGLE 'THR.EE ~u: 
ABOUT THEIR

'TRIPLETS LA.ST SC~E~t-1\ING ; 
NlC,HT. IODDLERS. ~ 
CEILING FAN. 
~ 

WI-\E~
BI\BY-5ITTINC.
1 \ ~ 
'fOU 5A.Y
BOB. ) ... :; 

''JUGGLE:'.. 
~ 
)
.. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Object to a 55 Answer to "Who squelching did this?" 
1 Drive 
remark? 59 Island

6 Four Tops 
32 Revival shouts necklaces
leader-­
aoGround -­
33 Whence the phoenix rose 61 Minolta rival 
Stubbs 
10 Breakfast cereal 34 Foxx of 
62 Old slave 
14 City near Utah 
"Sanford and 63 Onetime
Lake 
Son" Hagman co-star 
15 Leave 35Admit 
64Zurii home 
16 First name in country 36 Sound frustrated
17 Muslim group DOWN 18 "Anything--" 
40Lend -­19 Southwest 41 Actress Picon 1 Speed letters California town 42 Tenement? 2 Man-mouse link
20 Curtain call that 
45 Proust hero 

never ends? 3193~_Piay "High
47 Conceptualize

23 Philip Sidney's 
48 Pilot's joke to 

4 Make too great 
"Ast~?phel and 
passengers? 

an advance 26 Teases 53 Parts 5 City founder of 
maliciously 54 Not straight legend 6 Kind of blocks 7 Nebraska 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE Senator James 
9"--wrap!" ~~~~ 10 Evening news 29 Soc. Security 41 "Truth or Dare" 50 Escaped anchor Act, e.g. subject 51 Read -:+=+7-+::':-Williiiill 11 Answer, legally 30 Prickly item 42 Collect, as attentively, with -=+~-:+,:.,+::=-f!IIIIIPII.. 12 T award the 31 Water droplets bucks "over" 35"--the 
43 Disquiet 52 It follows once Angels Sing" 44 Repartee 56 Fight result ~~,......,,--4 21 Softness (1939 hit) 45 Used 57 Criminal set provider 36 Motor coil 46 Merchandise sa Chemical 37 Actress Chase 49 Disconcert ending
i;l~:D~··· 2280's mergers,
7. for short 
38 Oversupply -:':-+=+=+:=:+7+:47+~ 23 Pentagram 
39 Publicity 

Get answers to any three clues
';";"ir--ir.:-il-:-t 24 Break, in a way 
40 -regni (in 

by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
-=+~:+.::-! 25 Made (out) the year of the 
5656 (75¢ each minute).
__......................'-" 28 Ancient: Prefix reign) 
page 19 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY HIRTHDAY! IN THE suit an accountant or anorney. Dis­
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: cuss any differences of opinion with 
Your keen insight makes all the dif­your panner in a constructive man­
ference when facing a tough deci­ner. 
sion. Trust yourself before all oth­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): 
ers. Confiding in a child will Something rhar meanr a lor ro you in 
improve your relationship. Rely on the past, no longer mailers. Breathe 
your intellect as well as your a deep sigh of relief. Belter days lie 
instincts. Original ideas could help ahead' If romance is on your agen­
you land that coveted executive da. pursue it. 
position. Brighten up your social life LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cr. 22): 
by making subtle changes in your Important news arrives today. 
auitude and surroundings. 1997 will Remaining in a ho-hum job or rela­
bring a golden financial offer your tionship would be a mistake. Inves­
way. Take quick action. tigate other avenues. You can widen 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON your network of business contacts 
THIS DAY: weather man Willard by joining a professional gtoup or 
Scou, tennis star Ivan Lend!, actress social club. 
Anna Magnani, composer Maurice SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Ravel. You can make a dream come true if 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): you continue to work hard. A friend 
Financial assistance for a college­offers assistance with a delicate situ­
bound teen-ager puts you in a cheer­ation. Focus on becoming more 
ful mood. Protect the value of your independent. 
home by making timely repairs. A SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 
problem involving an elderly person 21): A friend with a case of wander­
is less serious than expected. Ius! tries to persuade you to travel to 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A an exotic locale. Although you I ike 
great day for getting to the heart of a the idea of immersing yourself in a 
problem or impasse. A marital or different culture. rhe timing may not 
business partnership can be be right. 
strengthened if you employ tact. An CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 
older person helps you cut through 19): The news from afar may be dis­
red tape. appointing. Avoid delegating a job 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): you should handle personally. Bar­
Something you read in the newspa­gain airline or train fares can be 
per could give you a business idea. obtained if you act quickly. 
Investigate at once but keep your AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
findings to yourself. A message con­Your ability to make shon work of a 
cerning money could be garbled. problem will dazzle an employer or 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): client. Refrain from giving unsolicit­
Look beyond the immediate. A spe­ed advice. Refuse to ler a former 
cial relationship may need reevalua­lover hold your heart hostage. 
tion. Are you gening what you real­PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): 
ly need? Spend time alone thinking Others make tough demands; hold 
things through. Singles need to be your ground. Contracts signed today 
open-minded. will make your financial future more 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be dili­secure. Do not sell \'ourself short. 
gent. A financial question merits Learn to play a waiting game in 
prompt attention. If necessary. con-romance. 
• 
OF INTEREST 

• 
Jeff Molitor, a clinical psychologist with a degree in human sexuality and Chairman of lhe Gay and Lesbian Alliance of Cincinnati will present: "Coming Out, Coming In. Coming Out," a lecture on gay and 


..

lesbian topics. The lecture will be at 5 p.m. in the 
Haggar Parlor at Saint Mary's. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 
North South 
Stir-fry Beef and Peppers Roast Turkey Breast 
Chicken Fajita Polish Sausage Sandwich 
Grilled Grouper with Lime Cheese and Vegetable Pie 
Saint Mary's 
Special Rock and Roll Dinner 
Wanted: Reporters, 
•

photographers ·and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
' 



SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, March 7, 1996 
No tomorrow for Irish 
Wallace, Syracuse spoil Notre Dames Big East debut 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associated Spons Editor 
NEW YORK, NY 
The Big East Conference and college basketball in general considered it a significant vic­tory when Syracuse star John Wallace turned down NBA rich­es to return for his senior sea­son. 

Notre Dame will not be sorry when Wallace does depart the league next season. 
Wallace spoiled the Irish's Big East Championship debut, scoring 32 points as Syracuse advanced past the first round for the first time in three years with a 76-55 victory Wednesday afternoon. 
see BIG EAST I page 13 
Wendesday, Thursday, March 6 March 7 
{1) Connecticut 
Noon 
{9) Seton Hall {9) Seton Hall {B) West Virginia 
{2) Villanova 9:10p.m.
(6) 
Providence {11) St. John's 

(4) 
Syracuse { 4) Syracuse 


{13) Notre Dame 
2:30p.m. {5) Boston College 
{5) Boston College { 12) Pittsburgh {3) Georgetown 7:10p.m. {7)Miami {10) Rutgers 


Friday, March 8  Saturday, March 9  
7:00p.m.  
8:30p.m.  
9:00p.m.  


Irish claim sixth at Cambridge Davis sets sights to 
The Notre Dame men's track team ended its indoor season

• last weekend with a bang at the ICAAAA Championships in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The Irish finished an impres­sive sixth place out of the hun­dred-plus east coast schools represented. "It was a good performance," commented Irish head coach Joe Piane. "Not a great per­formance, but it was a good finish to a good indoor season." 
Five was the lucky number for the Irish as they placed in the top five in five events, including a second place finish by senior shot putter Mike Fleisch with a throw of 57'03.75". Fleisch, who will be one of three Irish athletes to continue their indoor season, will compete for the first time 

The Observer/Rob Finch Despite a strong effort, guard Admore White and the Irish were unable to unseat the No. 4 seed Syracuse in the opening round of the Big East tournament. The game was closer than the 21 point margin indicated. 
• JocK STRIP 
Irish hope to build on tournament 
NEW YORK, NY 
Senior captain Ryan Hoover is Notre Dame basketball through and through. fie 
even has the inter­locking 'NO' tat­tooed in­side a shamrock 

on his shoulder. 
F r TIM SEYMOUR
0 1 I 0 0 v e r , Associate Sports N o t r e Editor Dame's de­cision to join the Big East pro­vided an interesting sidelight to his senior season. But unlike the rest of his team­mates, conference af111iation was destined to be only a one­year romance for Hoover. That did not prevent him from ruminating on the significance of his first and only post-season tournament experience after his career came to a close in Wednesday's 76-55 loss to Syracuse. "This is the best conference tournament there is," said Hoover. "You can't get a feel for it in these play-in games, 
see SEYMOUR I page 13 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
see TRACK I page 14 


i01prove at Nationals 
By STEPHANIE BUEK Saint Mary's Spans Editor 
While most students rely upon planes, trains, and auto­mobiles to transport them to tropical destinations next week, Stacy Davis needs only her own two feet to take her where she wants to go. 
With a pair of spikes and a qualifying time of 7:36 in the 55 meters, the Saint Mary's College sprinter heads for the Indoor National Tournament in North Hampton, Massachusetts March 7-8. 
Though 7:36 is her best time to date in the 55 meters, Davis's goal is to improve that mark at Nationals. 
"I would like to run in the high sixes or low sevens at Nationals," Davis said. "I hope to place very high." 
Whatever her time and rank at Nationals, Davis has already set records at Saint Mary's. 
Not only is the freshman the sole member of this year's team to qualify for the National Tournament, but, according to SMC Head Track Coach Larry Szczechowski, Davis is the first runner to qualify for Nationals since he began coaching at Saint Mary's 12 years ago. 
"It's an exciting time for all of us," Szczechowski said. "I've never been to Nationals. This is a first, and I'm really excited. (Davis) will be running against the best Division III athletes in the country." 
Her teammates agree that, though a first-year college competitor, Davis has already 
see DAVIS I page I 2 

Softball Lacrosse 
• Last second bucket lifts Seton Hall 

at South Florida Tournament, 
at Maryland-Baltimore County 
see page 18
March 8-10 

(Annapolis, MD}, March 9, noon 
.Baseball 


Women's Tennis • Hurricanes, Friars open up strong 
vs. Lewis-Clark Stare in Seattle, March 8 
vs. Kansas State, March 9, 10 a.m.
at a

..-vs. Long Beach Stare in Seattle, March 9 
vs. Drake, March 9, 4 p.m. see page 17 
• Floyd named Big Eight Coach ofYear 
Men's Tennis 
Track 

at Pennsylvania, March II, 2 p.m. at NCAA Championships, March 8-9 see page 15 







