
Friday, August 30, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 5 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

By MATfHEW LOUGHRAN A.<Sistant News Editor 
With the addition of O'Neill and KllOugh halls on the south side of campus, more students than ever will bn using the South Dining Hall. In anlieipation of these crowds, the University has announced plans to renovate the South Dining Hall. 
Plans call for a large food service area in the center of the dining hall. In addition, renovations should inelude retail and patio areas added to the south side of the building. However, the dining rooms them­selves will remain basically unchanged, according to David Prnntkowski, the director of Food Services. 
The changes to the food service area center around the current Oak Room. Builders will change the Oak Room into a service area much like the ones that currently exist in the dining halls. Also, architects plan to bring the current facilities into the room and create a large, combined food service area. 
"The area will be based on a 'mar­ketplace concept' that was devel­oped by a Swiss company. It includes many different serving areas that are each self-contained, but exist in one large area," said Prentkowski. 
Under the current plan, students would enter the serving area, be able to choose from an expanded menu, then have their choice of din­ing rooms to sit in. Also, the dining rooms would have expanded seating areas with the addition of the area vacated by the current food service facilities. 
Architects plan to offset the loss of the Oak Room with a new retail area on the south side of the building. The new area will have a stage, tele­visions, reading and lounge areas, computer hookups and possibly even computer terminals for students to work on. 
In addition to this area, planners hope to build an outdoor patio area with eating space and entertainment space. "Because the new dorms have been built, there is a need to create more of a feel of a quad on the south side of the dining hall," said Prentkowski, "The loading dock 
see SOH/ page 4 
• CAMPAIGN '96 
ND invites 
•
nominees 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
Will Bill, Bob or Ross make a stop at Notre Dame during their presidential campaigns? 
After the University sent invitations to President Clinton, former Sen. Bob Dole and Ross Perot earlier this month, the decision is up to them. 
Student Body President Seth Miller, who joined University President Father Edward Malloy in signing the letters to the candidates, said Notre Dame would be an ideal Clinton stop on the candidates' campaign tours because of the University's grow­ing emergence as a national academic power. 

"Notre Dame, as a national university, is an ideal forum for national leaders to converse about topics that affect us all," Miller said yesterday. Dole "The student body should hear first-hand what the candidates have to say." 

The letters, which also were addressed to the candidates' running mates, extend a 44-year­old tradition of inviting presidential candidates during election years. It is a tradition that was Perot established by former University president Father Theodore Hesburgh in his first year as the head of the University. 

Clinton may decline the invitation for sev­eral reasons, perhaps because he received a lukewarm reception when he visited the campus in 1992 and because he has already visited this re~ion of the United States dur­ing this year s campaign. The president 
see INVITE/ page 4 
SMC technology to expand 
Staff vacancy puts network plans on hold 
By MAUREEN HURLEY A'""iate News Ediror 
Whiln upgradns in the studnnt COilliHJter labs in I.eMans llall an~ visible signs of the move­nwnt towards incn~ascd tnch­nology at Saint Mary's College, tlu~ Computer Services De p a rtnw n t is currently preparing for a major expan­sion of' its rwtwork system behind the scenes. 
But the plan is in a holding pattern while the College works on finding a new computer ser­viens director. 
Following the Board of Trustnes' approval of a long­range plan for information technology at the College, plans are currently in the works to network the entire College campus, according to Dan Mandell, assistant director for Usnr Services. 
Main student labs undergo complete upgrade 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Associate News Editor 
In an effort to improve tech­nological resources available to students, the Saint Mary's Computer Services Department boasts a major upgrade in its main student computer labs located in LeMans Hall. 
Following the upgrades, which were completed this week, every computer in the Macintosh lab is currently a Power Macintosh, while the PC lab is now fully comprised of Pentium computers, 
In the plan, all the buildings on campus would be connected to a campus-wide computer network system. "Our goal is to have every faculty office, administration office, class-according to Dan Mandell, assistant director for User Services. 
To bring the entire student lab to this status, 20 Power Macintosh computers and eight Pentium computers were added. 
"We're maintaining the stu­dent labs at a high level where we can keep up with the current software and mul­timedia capabilities," said Mandell. "We're fighting to stay ahead of obsolescence, and keep our main student labs state-of-the-art and at a high level of functionality." 
see UPGRADE/ page 4 
room and student lab connect­ed on Ethernet," said Mandell. 
While the plans include hav­ing connectiOns in the resi­dence halls through computer 
see NETWORK/ page 4 
Draining the 'liquid lunch' ... 


page2 The Observer •. INSIDE Friday, August 30, 1996 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
A quick review-of party basics 
• 
So, you've been at col-~~~~~~~ 
lege for a week now. Whether you're a fresh­man, a senior, on-campus or off, you've probably discovered (or rediscov­ered) so·mething amazing this year. 
It's big. It's round. It's made of tin, and, if you're lucky, it's cold Caroline Blum and flowing. Freely. Saint Mary's Editor 
Although prohibited on campus. kegs are standard currency off-campus, and the chances are good that you have visited a keg party off-campus sometime during the last week. If you haven't, prepare yourself. Football season is just around the corner. So. if you have not partaken in "the ultimate keg party experience" before this year~ let me give you a little rendition of a valuable class I took freshman year, "Kegs 101". 
• 
The most important thing to remember when you are at a keg party is to keep the keg in sight at all times. You never know when a big crowd is going to show up and hoard the keg, leaving you high and dry. 

• 
If you arrive at the party after 11:30 p.m., wear clog shoes and elbow pads. Close your eyes and then push. Even the most heartened of keg drinkers will back away from the keg during the threat of physical violence. (Note: This rule may not apply at such famous keg parties as Pig Tostal or the St. Louis Street Block Party.) 

• 
Always bring your own cup (a big cup) to a keg party so that, if someone is charging money for tiny cups at the door. you can psy­che them out by telling them you aren't pay­ing because you don't drink. (Note: If no one is charging for cups at the door, take advan­tage of the situation. Place yourself at the front of the door, and tell anyone entering the party that it costs three bucks to drink. Keep the money.) 

• 
Whenever possible, be the kegmeister. Grab a chair and sit down next to the keg. Hold the tap and refill anyone with an empty cup. Not only will you meet a lot of people, but you will also be the closest one to the keg. 

• 
Try to make everyone at the keg party think that you live there. In case of a long line at the keg, yell, "House beer!" at the top of your lungs until everyone clears out and you can get a beer. 

• 
Join in on the fun of keg-drinking games. Enter yourself in the "Cups Tournament" at Turtle Creek. Refuse to lose. 

• 
Run around the party with an empty cup labeled "donations". Tell people that the keg's getting low and you're going out for another. Keep the money. 

• 
When people start doing keg stands, quickly get into line. Keg stands often result in an empty keg. So you better bite the big one and help finish it off. 

• 
If you notice that the beer is coming out of the keg rather slowly, put a plan into action. Start yelling, "Keg's kicked! Keg's kicked!" right away, so that the drunk people will head to the next party and the party-throwers will run out to get another keg. Then you can sit back and finish off the keg yourself. 

• 
Warning: If by chance the cops show up at the door. abandon all the above regulations and run to the nearest closet. Tie a towel around your head. If captured, mumble something about a kidnapping. (Hey. it worked at the Lafayette St. Patty's Day keg party of 1994.) 


The uiews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Maureen Hurley Production Brad Prendergast Heather Cocks 
Tara Grieshop Sports Tim McConn 
Lab Tech MikeRuma Graphics Tom Roland 
Tho 0b5CTVer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pr<SS. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Russian plane crashes in Arctic Circle, 141 presumed dead 
OSLO, Norway ries more than half of all air passengers 
A Russian passenger plane carrying in Russia -is among the planes most coal miners crashed on an island near prone to trouble. the Arctic Circle today, strewing wreck-It appeared that the plane flew into age across a mountainside and appar-the mountain, called Operafjellet, dur­ently killing all141 people aboard. ing its approach to the airport, accord-
The Tupelov 154 from Moscow was ing to Ole Hansen, a spokesman for the headed toward the Longyearbyen air-governor's office . port on Spitsbergen, the main island in The weather at the crash site was the Svalbard archipelago. The islands' cloudy. with visibility of about 4 miles, acting governor, Rune B. Hansen, said light winds and temperatures of about the plane crashed six miles from the v""<'"-~~c?""<l 40 degrees. weather officials said. airport. The first rescue team to reach the 
The Norwegian news agency NTB said crash site found no immediate sign of air traffic controllers lost contact with survivors, NTB said. The governor's the plane around 10:15 a.m. office said more rescue workers were 
Norwegian officials said they believed on their way. the passengers were Russian miners The main part of the wreckage was on headed for a Russian coal mine on one top of the mountain, said the acting gov-of the Norwegian islands. Twelve of the ernor's spokesman. Part of the fuselage 141 people aboard were airline crew had slid down the mountain into a val-members, Hansen's pffice said. L_.::.:..__ _;,._-._Lc.c:::::=------l........J ley. 
The plane, according to NTB, had been APtCanFox, Terry Kide "It appears likely that all of them were chartered from the Russian carrier Vnukovo Airlines, killed," the spokesman said. making this crash just the latest in a series of deadly The former Soviet air fleet has been plagued by chronic accidents that have plagued Russian airliners in recent safety problems since the 1991 collapse of the country years. and the breakup of the former state airline Aeroflot into 
The aging Tupolev 154 -the type of aircraft that car-some 400 companies. 
Farrakhan accepts human rights award 
Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan attended the opening cere­monies of a Libyan human rights con­ference Thursday, where he is to receive a $250,000 prize forbidden under U.S. government sanctions. The official Libyan news agency JANA said Farrakhan was in Tripoli to accept the Gadhafi Human Rights Award, named 

for the Libyan leader whom the United States considers a sponsor of terrorism. Farrakhan is expected to receive the prize money Friday night in a celebration broadcast live on Libyan Television. Decade-old U.S. economic sanc­tions against Libya forbid Farrakhan from accepting the prize money and a separate $1 billion gift promised by Moammar Gadhafi. The U.S. Treasury Department on Wednesday rejected· Farrakhan's request for an exemp­tion. saying it would undermine U.S. anti-terrorism poli­cies. Farrakhan has said he wants to use the money from Libya for a fund that would form joint ventures with busi­nesses and financial institutions to help American blacks. 
Peace walkers cross England, Ireland 
BELFAST 
With a symbolic splash of paint on a wall separating Catholics and Protestants in west Belfast, campaigners completed a 650-mile walk promoting peace across Britain and Ireland. Yet in a reminder that violence remains a mainstay in Northern Ireland, pro-British gun­men warned the leading critic within their ranks to flee the province or be killed. The trip attracted walkers from both parts of Ireland, England, Wales, Belgium, Germany, Australia, Japan and the United States. Greg Mott, 42, from South Burlington, Vt., was one of a half dozen people who made the entire journey from London to Belfast. "It was a continuous affair on foot," he said of the trek. "I became quite familiar with the soft Irish rain." He said the peace marchers encountered only one incident of hostility, when children in Belfast began pick­ing up stones."Though when they saw our waves and smiles they didn't throw them," he said. The walkers recruited Catholic and Protestant youths to help them complete a brick-wall mural. 
France expels 88 illegal immigrants 
PARIS 
France has deported 88 more illegal African immi­grants using specially chartered planes. the biggest expulsion yet in the government's recent crackdown. The Interior Ministry said Thursday that the repatriated immigrants were sent overnight Wednesday to Mali, Senegal. Zaire and Tunisia. Witnesses at Tunis airport. where a French jet dropped off 12 Tunisians, said most of that all-male group had served time in French prisons before being expelled. "I was supposed to leave prison today. but in place of finding my four-year-old child and my Algerian wife who has French nationality I found myself sent to Tunis," said Lamine Driss, a 34-year-old man who said he served two years in France for a drug­related crime. The daily newspaper Le Figaro reported that at least three of the deported were among the 220 illegal immigrants police expelled last week from a Paris church they had occupied for two months to protest their undocumented status. Chanting, "Papers for all," some 10,000 demonstrators marched through Paris Wednesday night in support of the Africans who had taken sanctuary to protest the planned deportations. 
Lloyd's survival plan gets approval 
LONDON 
With more than 90 percent of the money-losing investors at Lloyd's of London agreeing to its survival plan by Wednesday afternoon, a source predicted the famed insurance market now has the financing to stay solvent. "It'll fly," the source said, speaking to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity.To make the restructuring work. Lloyd's needs to end lawsuits with a substantial number of investors as well as to generate nearly $560 million in fresh cash. Lloyd's was brought to the brink of ruin when it lost $12.4 billion in five years ending in 1992, amid a flurry of claims for asbestos. pol­lution and natural disasters. Many of the investors refused to pay, saying they were victimized by unscrupu­lous insiders at Lloyd's. The names were required to put all their personal assets on the line to back the insurance policies, and many went broke. Some committed suicide. Lloyd's is offering 3.1 billion British pounds, or more than $4.8 billion at current exchange rates, to absorb some of the investors' massive losses. 
•INDIANA WEATHER • NATiONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather'"forecast for daytime conditions and hi h tern ratures 
The AccuWeather<~> forecast for noon, Friday, Au a. 30. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for The day. 
60s 
FRONTS: 
.....,......... ............ ......,._ 
COLO WARM STAOONARY p-., 

H L B ~t:r!l 0 ~§(!
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE 
Viii~P,... 
Atlanta 91 70 Denver 78 54 New York 88 71 Baltimore 90 66 Houston 89 72 Philadelphia 89 70 Boston 85 65 Miami 90 78 Phoenix 104 84 Chicago 78 64 Milwaukee 74 63 St. Louis 66 73 Columbus 84 70 New Orleans 90 74 West Windsor 86 73 

.----------------------------------------..._---~·· ~----­
Friday, August 30, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Reggae-style welcome 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 
L

ast night's Reggae Fest kicked off Welcome Week '96, sponsored by the Multicultural Student Affairs Office, Student Activities and the Student Union· Board. Uraeus performed, as stu­dents tye-dyed t-shirts. Welcome Week continues tonight, with the Welcome Back Picnic taking place from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Field House Mall. Also, comedians Gerald "Green Eyes" Kelly and 

J.B. Smoove take the Washington Hall stage tonight at 8 p.m. Tickets are $3 for students. 
.CONCESSION STAND PACKETS 
~1 ,~ --r"/' ~1 *Available for those student >-<--"{-t/ organizations already assigned a stand by 
1 
_/ the CCC. Packets can be picked up in the Student Activities Office. 
Packets may be picked up in the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune or for more information you may call 1-7309. 
presents a 
LABOR DAY WEEKEND JAMBOREE 
THIS SATURDAY, AUGUST 31ST the return of STOMPER BOB & THE 4 X 4S with special guest band THE PRESSURE DROP REGGAE BAND 
directly from Cleveland, Ohio -one of the Midwest's hottest touring reggae bands 
downstairs lounge: bands and DJ • upstairs lounge: DJs only 
FRIDAYS: IT'S MEN'S NIGHT!!! ALL MEN ADMITTED FREE BEFORE 11 PM FREE admission all night to anyone wearing a tool pouch with this ad $1.00 for men only until midnight with this ad 
must be 21 or over with proper ID • uniformed security both inside and outside • lighted parking lots doors open Mon -Sat at 4 p.m. • Djs on 6 nights • bands on weekends 
GMATReview Mondays, Sept. 11-0ct. 9, 6:30-10:30 p.m. at IUSB. $295. Exam date: Oct. 19. 
GRE Review Mondays and Thursdays, Sept. 16-0ct. 3, 6:30-10:30 p.m. 
at IUSB. $349. Exam date: Oct. 12. 
LSAT Review Mondays, Tues<iays, 1hursdays, Sept. 16-0ct. 1, 6:30-10:30 p.m. at IUSB. $249. Exam date: Oct. 5. 
Gottlieb could face credit fraud charges 
By LIZ FORAN Edimr-in-Chief 
Criminal charges are being considered against former Notre Dame basketball stand­out Doug Gottlieb, according to St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Barnes. 
Barnes told 
l....lollo...;.L~:w.:L---l the South Gottlieb Bend Tribune that Gottlieb could face charges of theft, credit card fraud or conversion after his office received reports from Notre Dame Security that Gottlieb was a suspect in cases of credit card fraud involving three students. 
"I expect to make a decision by the first of the week," Barnes said of whether charges would be filed. 
Gottlieb departed Notre Dame for a community college closer to his home in Orange, Calif. over the summer, citing reasons that he wanted to be closer to home. 
Gottlieb had lived in Dillon Hall with the three students who are claiming they were defrauded. Pat Johnson of Goshen, Joe Hand of Monroe, Conn., and Scott Thomas of Hamburg, N.J. cited unautho­rized charges totalling about $1000 made on their credit cards. 
Only two cases are currently being considered in the deter­mination regarding whether charges will be pressed against Gottlieb, Barnes told the Tribune. The cases being con­sidered total under $500. 
This means that Hand, who had about $500 charged to his account alone, is not being con­sidered in the investigation. Hand was unaware of the details of the investigation. 
"Last time I talked to (Notre Dame Security), I told them I wanted to press charges," he said. 
Both Johnson and Thomas claim that Gottlieb was cap­tured on Spiece store video while making the alleged trans­actions with their respective credit cards. Hand said an employee of a jewelry store was able to identify Gottlieb through a series of line-up photos which included Hand. 
John MacLeod, head coach of the men's basketball team, admitted to the Tribune that Gottlieb's decision to leave was impacted at least partially by the allegations against him. 
''I'm not trying to avoid the issue," MacLeod said. "This (the allegations) was connected to (the transfer) to a degree. Other than that, I don't think it's appropriate to make any com­ments." 
MacLeod refused to make any comment to The Observer. 
The Gottlieb family refused to make any comment when reached by telephone. "Any comments are being made through the lawyer now," an unidentified family member said. He said he did not know the name of the lawyer, and that no other family member was available at the time. 
CONTU«<TNGEDUC~TION 
GMAT,GRE, LSAT REVIEWS 
• 
Strategies for attacking individual questions and the test as a whole 

• 
Official diagnostic and practice exams with actual test questions 

• 
Homework modules to reinforce what you learn in class 

• 
Vital emphasis on analytical, logical and critical reasoning skills 

• 
On exam day, you'll be more confident and less prone to test anxiety 


PL~ASE NOTE: 
Both the GRE and LSAT require analytical and logical reasoning. Since the undergraduate experience provides little exposure to these kinds of thought processes, a review course is almost essential to exam success. 
To register, or more information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 
pa~~4----------~------~----------------~T~h~e~O~b~se~IT~e~r~·~C~~~~P~U~S~~~E~VV~S~----------------------~F~ri~d~~~.A~u~g~u~st~3~0~·~19~9~6 
NetWOrk 
continued from page 1 
clusters, the feasibility of con­necting every dorm room on Ethernet has not yet been determined due to instillation costs, according to Mandell. 
The plan was first endorsed by a independent computerconsultant in the spring, and 
SDH 
continued from page 1 
will be confined to the south­west corner, and the back will be greatly improved by the construction of the patio." 
Along with the large-scale physical changes to the dining hall, all of the operating sys­tems are to be updated, includ­ing electricity and heating. 
In order to avoid causing fur­ther congestion, the renova­tions, which are planned to begin in the spring of 1997, will be mainly carried out over the summer months. 
The project is, however, still in the planning stages. In the next few weeks the plans will be submitted to the University. If they are approved, the next step would be to find contrac­tors and set construction dates. 
While the Oak Room will def­initely be eliminated before the summer, administrators plan on using the faculty dining room as a retail food outlet in its place until the new one is completed. 
"We believe that these reno­vations will enhance the menus, speed of service and freshness of food at the South Dining Hall," Prentkowski said. 
• CORRECTION 
An article in Thursday's Observer had two errors. Matthew Szabo, featured in the article, was misidenti­fied. He is a junior govern­ment major. Also, the for­mer White House Chief of Staff is Don Rumsfield. 
The Observer regrets the errors. 
Notre Dame-Vanderbilt 
Tickets Available 
1-BG0-852-7771 
then was approved· by the trustees. The next steps will involve hiring a network design staff member, and then check­ing out costs from vendors before beginning to hook up the system, according to Mandell. 
However, the loss of Computer Services Director John Cook last semester has set back the plans, as the College does not want to begin the major networking without a director in place. 
Upgrade 
continued from page 1 
The computers that were for­merly housed in the main labs will be distributed throughout the College, primarily in the Writing Center and in faculty 
Ifyou see news happening, call The Observer at 1~5323. 
INDEPENDENCE DAY(PG-13}1:00,4:00,7:00, 10:oo ENIMA(PG)t20, 3:55, 7:20, 10:10 FIRST KID (PG)12:30, 2:50, 5:15,7:30, 10:15 BORDELLO OF BLOOD (R)1:1o, 3:15,5:35,7:45, 9:50 

SCAPE FROM LA (R)12:20, 2:45, 5:16,7:35, 10:2s 
LASKA(PG) 12:25,2:55, 5:25 HOUSE ARREST(PG)7:55•, 10:20 CARPOOL (PG)12:45, 3:05, 5:20 
HE NUTIY PROF. (PG-13) 7:15,9:30 
Times valid through next Thursday 
•sat. night and Sun. night at7:55 sneak preview of Spit Fire Grill 
According to the ComputerServices Office, candidates are in the process of being inter­viBwed, with the goal of filling the vacancy as soon as possible to get plans for the technology overhaul in motion. 
Due to the staff vacancy, no definite timetable has been set regarding plans. "We hope to get a new director in place as soon as possible so we can get as much done in this coming year as possible," Mandell said. 
Saint Mary's students take advantage of the new Power Macintosh computers located in the LeMans student lab. 
The Observer/Kim Michalik 
arid administrative offices, according to the Computer Services Office. 
In addition, new computers were added to the student study lounge i'n the basement of the library last semester. 
The Macintosh and PC labs are located in room 75S in the basement of LeMans Hall. 

What are you doingfor Fall Break? 
Appalachia Seminar 
October 20-25, 1996 
• 
Work, play, and learn with other volunteers at one of 14 sites in five different states. 

• 
Receive 1-credit in Theology. 

• 
Pick up applications at the Center for Social Concerns. 


INFO SESSION: MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 7:30-B:oo PM@ the esc 
APPLICATIONS DUE: Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
Invite 
continued from page 1 
made a stop in Michigan City, Ind., on Wednesday. 
Miller said Clinton's visit to Michigan City "was a logical issue to consider," but he would not rule out a visit by the sitting president. 
"We are hoping to get all three candidates to come," he said. "We wouldn't invite them if we didn't think they would. I think we stand an outstanding chance." 
In 1952, Dwight Eisenhower and his Democratic opponent,Adlai Stevenson, both spoke at the University, and presidential 

Two exhibits opening tonight will kick off the sea· son for the Moreau Art Galleries at Saint Mary's College. 
"Luminous Landscapes: Photographs by Teresa B. Cronkhite.. will be displayed in the Hammes. Gallery, while tl\~ tittle T}leatre Gallery will s}lowcase· ~·upon the Arrival· ofMy Family/ALa Llegada de 
M~  Ftot;  ilia:}*  Sculpture 
.,J.nst  by  Eli.zabeth  
·:t~e:: ··  

candidates have visited the campus in almost all followingelection years. 
Richard Nixon in 1956, Henry Cabot Lodge in 1960, William Miller, a Notre Dame alumnus, in 1964, Edmund Muskie in 1968, Sargent Shriver in 1972, and Jimmy Carter and his run­ning mate Walter Mondale in 1976 all have addressed the Notre Dame community. 
Ronald Reagan spoke at Saint Mary's College in 1980 and Mondale returned to Notre Dame as a presidential candi­date during the spring primary season of 1984. 
Then-Vice President George Bush spoke at the University a week before Election Day 1988, and then-Governor Clinton spoke in September 1992. 
Moreau opens with cultural art 
Mesa-Gaido." The opening reception for both shows takes place from 
5:30 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. tonight. Also, at 6 p.m., Mesa-Gaido will give a gallery talk on her work. 
The exhiliits will be on dis­play through Sept. 29. Hours for the Moreau Galleries are Tuesday through Friday, 10 
a.m. to 12 p.m. and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturday. 10 a.m. to 12 p.m.; and Sunday, 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. The exhibits are free and open to the public. 

Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a final meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the application process on 
Tuesday, September 3, 1996 7:00p.m. 101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
FALL BREAK SEMINARS 
October 20-25, 1996 Experiential/Service Learning 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR 
-S.ervi~e learning at pre of ~elve s1tes m the Appalachtan regton 
-One-credit Theology 
-Information meeting (optional}: 
WASHINGTON SEMINAI"t 
Monday, Sept. 9, 7:30-8:00 PM
Theme: Education in America -Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washmgton, D.C. -Service a,n,d political awareness CULTURAL DIVERS.ITY SEMINAR opportumhes -E~plore the cultural nchness of Chicago 
_One-credit Theology or Government -Examines issues of diversity and related 
r . . concerns 
-lnrormahon meeting: -One-credit Theology or Sociology 
Monday, Sept. 9, 7:00-7:30 PM c . d "th M It' It 1
-osponsore WI u tcu ura Student Affairs 
-Information meeting: 
Thursday, Sept. 5, 4:15-4:45 PM 
Applications Available Now at the Center for Social Concerns 
Applications Due: September 11, 1996 
All Seminars Depart Sunday Morning, Oct. 20th 

Friday, August 30, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page5 

fROM THE OFFICE OF STUDENT AFFAIRS 
Student Affairs Senior Staff 
Professor Patricia A. O'Hara Vice President for Student Affairs 315 Main Building 
631--7394 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F. Mr. William Kirk Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs Assistant Vice President for Residence Life 315 Main Building 315 Main Building 631..5550 
631..6144 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Ms. Ann Firth Assistant Vice President for Student Services ' 
Assistant to the Vice President 315 Main Building 
315 Main Building 631..5550 
631..5550 Alcohol & Dru Education Cam us Ministr 
Ms. Gina Kigar Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. Coordinator Director Mezzanine Hesburgh Library Office LaFortune Student Center 631..6536 63J..7970 
Career and Placement Services International Student Affairs 
Ms. Kitty Arnold Mr. Arthur Grubert 
Director Director Lower level, Hesburgh Library 204 LaFortune Student Center 631..5200 631..5243 
' 
Multicultural Student Affairs ' Residence Life 
Ms. Iris Outlaw ... Mr. Jeffrey Shoup Director Director 210 LaFortune Student Center 315 Main Building 631..6841 631..5550 
Securit Student Activities 
Mr. Rex Rakow Mr. Joseph Cassidy Director Director Security building 315 LaFortune Student Center 631..5555 631..7308 
0 
Student Health Services Student Residences 
Ms. Ann E. Thompson Mr. Kevin Cannon Director Director University Health Center 311 Main Building 631..7497 631..5878 
Universit Counselin Center 
Dr. Patrick Utz Director University Health Center 631..7336 
page 6 The Observer • DEMOCRATIC CONVENTION Friday, August 30, 1996 
Clinton accepts par~y presidential nomination 
Clinton delegates 

Wednesday's vote for the presidential nomination at the '" Democratic National Convention in Chicago. 
Clinton Others Ala. 66 0 Alaska 19 0 
Am.Samoa 6 0 Ari=:z._____g____o _ Ark. 47 0 
Calif. 418 o J:&IQ., 58 0 ..9.<?..~!1.:......................,,,_,,,......§!................,_,,_Q,,__ 
D.C. 33 0 Del. 21 0 ..P~m.~.:.A!:>.r.21l..9..... .... .....~.......................9...... ...................................._..-......).?..~.....................JL.. 
Fla. 91 0 ..G.c:~,...... . ..JL. ... 0.. Gual!.l......................................?.!l..................... 9..... 
!i.EY.t.~L____ ?.~ o 
Idaho 193 0 J!.L...........................................JlJL.....................O...... ..!D.9..:.............................................?..!>.........................9....... .J.QY.!!Il. ........................................i?......................9....... 
K<!!1.___ 61 Q JSy,_ 71 0 _L.,c:~,, ..........................................;3? ..................JL... _Mil..!D.f:l............______.11.1: ________ Q.__ ~-~---88 ____0_ 
..'".19.:................................. " . ~..?.~ ......................9....... 
_t./lich!:...·____92 0 
Minn. 47 o ..M.!.~.!?.:.........................................~.~---...................L ..t.II.C?..:.............................................?..~........................O....... 
Mont. 99 0 N.C. 21 0 N.D. 26 0 
~~~[.-·-..~:=-~-· 1·~=--=9 _N.~"-..-·--..·--·---..;3.-~___p__ ..N..M. ......... _ __?.~!:L...............O..... l'l...:..'!':____,_________?.4____Q___ 
Neb. 26 0 Nev. 172 0 Qbiq .... .. . . .. ... .!?.?. .... Q . Q~la, ............................ .. .!>4 ..... Q Qrf:l, ................................ 195 o_ 
Pa. 58 0 Puert()_fli9Q .. _.. .2.1___....J)__ R.I. 51 0 -~LQ~................. _____...?.?...__..!L 2...:9:................ ..~9_____0 -Tenn. 229 0 
Texas 31 0 Utah 97 0 VfJ:•.................................. A ................ D. Virgin 1~1. 22 Q.. 
,Vt................................................4.~ .................0..... YY...Y.fJ:...................-...........J!Q_______o_ 
There were 4,320 delegates eligible 
Wa§.!L  93 ____o_  
Wis.  19  0  
w:yo.·  
Totals 4,277  0  

to cast 4,289 votes; 2,145 votes were needed to win the nomination. Ohio put President Clinton over the top. 

HOUSE OF FRANCIS 
Icons, Religious Items, Posters 111 E. Naverre St. (behind Kagel Flowershop) 233-2523 
Speech focuses on bridge to next century 
By JOHN KING 
Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
President Clinton made a determined case for a second term Thursday night in a climactic convention address that took credit for blocking Republican budget cuts and promised an array of new h~lp for poor and middle-class families . 
"Hope is back in America," Clinton declared in accepting the Democratic pres­idential nomination for the second time and making his nationally televised case for four more years. "Tonight, let us resolve to build a bridge to the 21st Century, to meet our challenges, protect our basic values and prepare our people for the future." 
Clinton said the economy had roared back to life on his watch, creating 10 mil­Clinton saluted Republican Bob Dole for "We should not bet the farm and we cer­lion new jobs even as the federal govern­hi's war service and his 35 years in tainly shouldn't bet the country," Clinton, ment payroll shrunk. In a second term, he Congress, but scorned his rival's policies in his pr,epared remarks, said of the Dole pledged modest tax cuts targeted to mid­and proposals. The president said Dole's plan. "We have an obligation to leave our dle-income families and to balance the $548 billion tax cut plan would "weaken children a legacy of opportunity, not debt." budget "in a way that preserves Medicare, our bridge to the 21st century" by balloon­The Democrats were heading home in an Medicaid, education and the environment." ing the deficit or gutting vital programs. unfamiliar position: Heavily favored to win. 
Clinton 'cautiously confident' in campaign stretch 
By TERENCE HUNT gy and social programs. Bob tain victory that surrounded The message from Clinton's Associated Press Writer Dole promises experience, trust­Ronald Reagan at convention train trip to the convention will worthiness and tax cuts . time nor the cloud of gloom that echo through the campaign: we CHICAGO Energized by a convention of hung over George Bush as each are on the right track to the 21st 
Now it really begins: the last rare Democratic unity, Clinton man sought a second term. century. battle of the World War II gen­marches into the last nine weeks The Clinton White House is Yet, the track to the White eration against the vanguard of of the campaign with a sizable cautiously confident. The polls House is strewn with surprises the baby boomers. President lead but no sure thing. are favorable, and peace and that could trip up Clinton. Clinton stresses his youth, ener-There is neither the air of cer-prosperity are on his side. Whitewater, perhaps. 

CHECK ITO 
•I 
Coffee, Espresso, Cappuccino Big Screen TV Bagels, Muffins, Donuts, Dantsh Hot and Cold SandWiches 
Chips, Fruit, Snacks Salads and Homemade Soup 

open Monday · Friday 
7:30 am -2:30pm 


Chicago copes with convention crowds 
By SARAH NORDGREN Associated Press Writer 
Some officers gabbed about the Bears. Others sipped chilled bottled water. Still others sat shoulder-to-shoulder at one of the 15 walk-through metal dlltectors outside the Democratic National Convention. 
"I wish we had some sun screen," said Chicago police ollicer Thomas Dineen, among 100 police lining the perimeter of a United Center protest that at the moment was four demonstrators strong. 
Along the convention's main drag, around the designated protest pits, even inside a North Side warehouse where riot-preparedness forces passed the time playing cards, some 2,000 Chicago police offi­cers have had a lot in common this week: too much time, too little to do. 
It was in stark contrast to the last time the Democrats came to town. Twenty-eight years ago there were violent clashes between protesters and police, and as many as 700 anti-war demonstrators were arrested. 
This year? "If you consider any arrests that have any inkling of having to do with the convention, it's ... 10," police spokesman Patrick Camden said Wednesday. 
"So far, there's not much to do," aeknowledged Sgt Dennis 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books! 
Open House.~ 
Friday, August 30 3-6:00 p.m. 
Enjoy refreshments while you explore our unique selection of books at 237 
N. Michigan (at the corner of LaSalle and Michigan). Free parking next to the Morris Civic Auditorium. 
~OBSERVER 
Now Hiring... 
Systems Manager 
Nct:worldng 

Web Administration Oscr Training 
Manage a ">t<tff of 5 dcdkatcd Systems Assistanh 
~ 
The Systems Manager is responsible for one of the largest student run networks on campus. With over 25 Macintoshes, 5 printers, 6 modems, and 4 servers, The Observer offers one of the best learning opportunities on campus for Computer Science majors. Ifyou are interested, please submit a one page letter of intent describing your experience to Sean Gallavan at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center, by Monday, September 2. Freshmen encouraged to apply. 
O'Connor as he chatted with a buddy near the convention hall. "There's nobody protesting right now." 
Camden said the number of officers on duty was not overkill, just a healthy dose of caution. 
"We're prepared for any con­tingency that may come up," he said. 
With 13,500 officers citywide, police drew from the city's tac­tical, gang and special units for convention duty. All police who normally work beats or respond to crime calls remained at their usual assign­ments, Camden said. 
Those who did draw the con­vention call weren't griping. "Beats getting shot at," shrugged one officer. 
"They gave us water from Culligan and the protesters get Evian," Dineen grumbled good naturedly as he leaned against a fence at the United Center protest pit. 
At a crumbling warehouse hideaway in Lincoln Park, some 100 riot-preparedness officers, dressed in their regu­lar blue uniforms, played cards or chatted. Several sat in aban­doned car seats in a courtyard behind fences covered with black plastic. 
"The secrecy is because they don't want anybody to see what these deplorable facilities are like," said a spokesman for the police union. 
Quark Photoshop I;rcehand Illustrator Streamline .FilcMaker Pro MS Word Excel 

234-0003 
The Observer/Brad Prendergasl 
P
resident Bill Clinton spoke to a crowd of 40,000 in Michigan City on Wednesday during the final stop of his five-state train tour. The event drew a horde of print and TV media to the city's Washington Park, where people young and old showed their support for the president. 
The Obsarver/Rachael Sederberg 
The Joan B. ](roc Institute for International Peace Studies welcomes its new graduate students in the M.A. Program in Peace Studies 
HESBURGH SCHOLARS 
Obinna ANYADIKE  • Lagos, NIGERIA  
Jonathan CRANE  • Seattle, Washington, USA  
Vivian DUTARI  • Panama City, PANAMA  
A. Jessine FOSS  • Eugene, Oregon, USA  
Lisa FRANZ  • Los Angeles, California, USA  
Matthew MICKLE  • Houston, Texas, USA  

Iffi.OC SCHOLARS International Peace House 
Uyanga AMARSAIKHAN Mya Sandi AUNG Dorothy Bina D'COSTA Moivabah FOFANA Haim ITZHAKI Bakhtiyor KADIROV Michael KOWALSKI LIYue Jana MCDONALD Yukiko NAKAJIMA Jasmin NORDIEN Amy SCANLON Ralph SLEIMAN 
• Ulaanbaatar, MONGOLIA • Yangon,~ANMAR ... Dhaka, BANGLADESH • Monrovia, LIBERIA • Jerusalem, ISRAEL • Tashkent, UZBEKISTAN • Amsterdam, NETHERLANDS • Beijing, P.R. CHINA • Lake Jackson, Texas, USA • Nishinomiya, Hyogo, JAPAN • Cape Town, SOUTH AFRICA • Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA • Beirut, LEBANON 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, August 30, 1996 

Appearing on MTV ... Lottery winner·tries to shake off bad luck 
By NIKI KAPSAMBELIS ceedings and lawsuits. The gas Associated Press Writer was shut off, and Post consid­ers himself lucky to still have 
For sale: One winning lottery electricity and a telephone. ticket, slightly used. Price Now he hopes to rid himself negotiable. of 17 future payments worth 
After eight years of learning nearly $5 million in a Sept. 26 and re-learning the proverb auction. that money can't buy happi­But Post can't shake his bad ness, Buddy Post hopes to auc­luck. The Pennsylvania Lottery tion off what's left of the $16.2 may block the auction because, million jackpot he won in 1988 it says, winners can't sell and free himself of the alba­future payments. tross of instant wealth. Post has seen relatively little 
''Money didn't change me. It of the jackpot that brought him changed people around me that so much misery. In 1992, he I knew, that I thought cared a was ordered to give one-third little bit about me. But they of his winnings to his former only cared about the money," landlord, Ann Karpik, who said Post, 58, a former carnival claimed she shared the ticket worker and cook who lives in with Post. Oil City, about 75 miles north of Post didn't have access to the Pittsburgh. lottery payments during the 
Since he became a winner, dispute, and he couldn't keep Post was convicted of assault, up with the legal fees and the his sixth wife left him, his bills for failed business ven­brother was convicted of trying tures he started after winning to kill him and his landlady thej~kpot. successfully sued him for one­In 1:994. Post filed for bank­third of the jackpot. rupte.y and he was given a 
The crumbling mansion he montb\y allowance of $2,000 a
Dole: Clinton lacks fresh ideas 
bought with his winnings is month. His wife, who had left half-filled with paperwork from him, receives $40,000 a year in 
By SANDRA SOBIERAJ have any commitment, I just convention spotlight. Ahead of his Chapter 11 bankruptcy pro-payments. 
Associated Press Writer want to be re-elected because I Clinton's arrival today, Dole like it here."' ridiculed the event: "He's going 
In advance of President Amid reports that Clinton to ride into town on a track. It's Clinton's arrival today at the would announce a tax-cuts called the Status Quo Express." Democratic convention, package including a reduction Dole went to a small Christian Republican Bob Dole said he in capital gains taxes on home school playground to upbraid expected Clinton to endorse sales, Dole said, "Well, wel­Clinton for nationwide statistics Dole's call for tax cuts and come to the club. We've had it indicating a doubling of adoles­stiffer drug controls. out there for weeks and weeks cent drug use since he took 
"If they agree with me on and weeks." office. everything, why shouldn't I be In a written statement direct­"I know when President the president?" Dole asked at a ed at Clinton, Dole added: Clinton speaks tomorrow, he's campaign appearance. "Please let me know in your going to mention kids 55 times 
Of the Democrats' proceed­acceptance speec~Thursday if if he talks for ten minutes ... ings, Dole said: "Last night was you are willing to endorse my and he'll probably mention his liberal night. ... That was just to proposal to give homeowners war on drugs which he's going satisfy the liberals. Tonight much-needed tax relief. And to start next year. It's too late, they'll bash Republicans, and please accept my best wishes Mr. President." tomorrow night the president on the occasion of your becom­Democrats, in turn, note that will sound for everybody, 'If ing your party's nominee." Dole voted in the Senate to cut you're for it, I'm for it. If Bob Good tidings aside, Dole kept back funds for anti-drug educa­Dole's for it, I'm for it .... I don't up his effort to dim Clinton's tion and treatment programs. 
OUTDOOR MOVIE NIGHT ON NoRTH QuA 
''S

EVEN II SHOWING AT 1 0 PM 

11THE LION KING'' 
SHOWING AT 8:30PM 

f\t~!~-Soda 
Sponsored By: Student Activities -Student Union Board 


Palestine protests expansion Remnant of Titanic 
By HILARY APPELMAN 
Associatrd Prrss Writrr 
JERUSALEM 
In a massive display of anger, Palestinians slammed shut shops and businesses across the West Bank, Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem on 
,.....~~il"'"'""::.,. Thursday to protest Israel's expansion of Jewish settle­ments and slowness in resuming 
Arafat
peace talks. 
T h e prospect of a direct confronta­tion between Palestinian pro­testers and the Israeli army loomed for Friday. Yasser Arnfat called for mass prayers at Jerusalem's Al-Aqsa Mosque, even though most Palestinians are barred from entering the city. Israeli troops were ordered to reinforce entrance check­points. 
The four-hour general strike was a clear show of Palestinian support for Arafat in his strug­gle with Israel's new hard-line government. 
And in what appeared to be a small victory for the Palestinians, the two sides' top negotiators -Dan Shomron and Saeb Erakat -held an unscheduled meeting Thursday. It was their first meeting since Netanyahu took office in June. 
"We support President Arafat because the new Israeli govern­ment is not looking for peace," said Akram Moussa, who closed his Gaza City supermarket. 
So far, Netanyahu has refused to moet with Arafat or commit himself to completing Israel's overdue troop pullout from Hebron, the last West Bank city under Israeli control. He has also ruled out negotiations over Palestinian demands for an independent state with east Jerusalem as a capital. 
Palestinians fear building more and larger Jewish settle­ments in the West Bank and Gaza will destroy their last hopes of someday establishing a state there. 
Faisal Husseini, the top Palestinian official in Jerusalem, said the call to Friday prayers was meant to test Israel's claim that it ensures freedom of worship in Jerusalem. Under Israel's six­month closure of the West Bank and Gaza, most Palestinians have been barred from entering the disputed city. 
Danny Naveh, secretary of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's Cabinet, warned that "any deterioration to vio­lence, any escalation, is likely to reduce our will to move the peace process forward." 
The deterioration of the peace process since Netanyahu took office, as well as internal prob­lems of corruption and human rights abuses, has eroded Arafat's support among Palestinians. 
But Thursday morning's strike -the first open con­frontation with the new govern­ment-showed a people united in anger. 
Life in Palestinian towns and villages came to a halt as mer­chants shut shops and banks and government offices closed. Shopkeepers sat in front of their shuttered stores, listening to radios and reading newspapers. In some places, Palestinian 

AP/Carl Fox 
police enforced compliance. 
"It's our battle for Jerusalem and I think it is now or never," said Abed Nasser Adin, a 45­year-old shopkeeper in Hebron, where more than 90 percent of shopkeepers observed the strike. 
Palestinian legislator Hanan Ashrawi said the strike showed the world that Netanyahu was sabotaging chances for reconcil­iation while claiming he was committed to peace. 
freed from seabed 
Associated Press 
ST. JOHN'S, Newfoundland 
After 84 years on the ocean floor, a 15-ton section of the hull of the Titanic was raised part of the way to the surface Thursday by salvagers using giant balloons filled with diesel fuel. 
Following two unsucces'sful attempts, an underwater crew finally freed the huge piece of . the liner, and it was lifted more than two miles from the seabed by the flotation balloons. The balloons broke the surface around midday, but the debris itself remained suspended about 390 feet below, officials said by satellite phone. 
About 1, 700 people, includ­ing three Titanic survivors, watched the salvage operation from two cruise ships near the spot 420 miles southeast of Newfoundland where the Titanic snak. The wreckage is to be shipped to Boston Saturday and then exhibited by the organizers of the money­making expedition. 
The cruise ship passengers paid up to $6,000 to watch. 
The Titanic hit an iceberg and went down on its maiden voyage from England to New York on April 14, 1912. More than 1,500 of the 2,200 people aboard the luxury liner died. 
UN inspectors to test Iraqi weapons pledge 
By ADNAN MALIK 
Associated Press Writer 
MANAMA, Bahrain 
U.N. inspectors will visit Iraq next month to test yet another government pledge to grant unrestricted access to suspect­ed weapons sites. 
The U.N. team will investi­gate Iraq's claims that it has now provided a full accounting of its clandestine weapons pro­grams, Rolf Ekeus, head of the United Nation's monitoring effort in Iraq, said Wednesday. 
Ekeus, who has repeatedly criticized Iraq for not cooperat­ing with U.N. inspectors during the past five years, said September "will be a crucial 
and decisive month for the Iraqis." 
"We hope the Iraqis will come clean," Eke us told a news conference in Bahrain, where he arrived after three days of talks with government officials in the Iraqi capital of Baghdad. 
Ekeus didn't give an exact date for the team's arrival. He said he must report the status of the inspection to the U.N. Security Council on Oct. 11. No inspections were carried out while he was in Baghdad. 
A 1991 Security Council reso­lution that ended the Persian Gulf War requires Iraq to destroy its long-range missiles and halt nuclear, biological and chemical weapons programs. 
With Joy and Thanksgiving The Congregation ofHoly Cross Announces the Profession ofPerpetual Vows By our Brothers 
Brent A. Kruger, C.S.C. James M. Lies, C.S.C. John A. Steele, C.S.C. Stephen S. Wilbricht, C.S.C. 
At a Celebration ofthe Eucharist on Saturday, August 31, 1996 Sacred Heart Basilica Notre Dame, Indiana 
We accept the Lord's call to pledge ourselves publicly and perpetually as members of the Congregation o loly Cross by the vows of consecrated celibacy, poverty and obedience. Great is the mystery and meaning ithin these vows. And yet their point is simple. They are an act of love for the God who first loved us. By our 
ows we are committed to single-hearted intimacy with God, to trusting dependence upon God and to willing ·urrender to God. We wish thus to live in the image of Jesus, who was sent in love to announce God's rule and ho beckons us to follow him. 
-Constitution 5:43 Congregation ofHoly Cros 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, August 30, 1996 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergasr Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager .., ......................... Sean Gallavan 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac.and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns presem rhe views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 63 I -454 I Advenising 631-6900/8840 Sports 63I-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 Nc:ws/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-747I Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4 540 Fax 63I-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

A curious event in England this past summer invites us to reflect on whether we are consistent in our devotion to human rights. It also illustrates a ten­dency of scientists and lawyers to make the Pope look good. 
On August 1st, British scientists opened glass tubes which had been stored in freezing nitrogen. The tubes contained 3,300 human embryos, each the size of a grain of sand, The embryos died within minutes. They had been con­ceived by in vitro fertilization, in which a woman who cannot conceive normally can have her ovum fertilized "in vitro" (on glass) and then implanted in her womb. The practice is to fertilize extra embryos which are frozen to keep for implantation in case the first effort fails. Or they can be donated to another woman or used for experimentation. The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act provided that frozen embryos must be destroyed after five years. The five-year period expired on July 31, 1996, for the first embryos affected. Last May Parliament extended the period for embryos whose parents so requested. On August 1st, the 3,300 embryos were destroyed because the 900 couples who conceived them did not request an extension. 
In Britain, as elsewhere, frozen embryos are regularly destroyed in small numbers at the request of donor couples or because they are defective. But the numbers involved in this destruction stirred up debate. Some women offered to "adopt" an embryo for implantation in their own wombs but the government forbade it without con­sent of the parents. Bourn Hall, a clinic with 904 embryos set to be destroyed, "rejected an offer from an Italian chain of prenatal clinics...to import them." Bourn Hall director Peter Brinsden said, "How would people react if they found out two or three of their children were sunning around Italy in a few years time?" English Cardinal Basil Hume"reiterated" Catholic opposition to 
• RIGHT OR WRONG 
Suspending life in the ice age of the nineties 
embryos be halted, taking into account that there seems to be no morally licit solution regarding the human destiny of the thousands...of 'frozen embryos' which are...the subjects of essential rights and should therefore be protected by law as human persons." 
The Church has not definitively decid­ed whether "adoption" is a moral solu­tion here. It could be argued to be a litit rescue. On the other hand it might con­stitute illicit cooperation in the mass production of human beings in vitro. Apart from the adoption question, in vitro fertilization is itself wrong because it separates procreation from spousal union and violates the right of the child to be conceived through an act of "per­sonal love" in the conjugal act of his parents. 
The English mass destruction of embryos should prompt us, at the start of this school year, to ask if our devotion to human rights is consistent if it excludes any human beings, even the smallest. It should also lead us to reflect on the cogency of the Church's teaching that contraception is always objectively wrong. Contraception seeks to take the unitive while deliberately frustrating the procreative. In vitro fertilization is the reverse, effecting procreation without union. It reduces the human being to the status of a laboratory specimen. On the contrary, human life is meant to begin only in the way ordained by the wisdom of God. 
The pragmatic scientists and the posi­tivist lawyers cannot help but make John Paul look good. All they can offer is a relativist and utilitarian "culture of death" which treats human beings as things, while the Pope invites us to. build a "culture of life" through concern for all, even for the smallest among us. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Monday. 
the laboratory production and freezing of embryos, but argued there was "no duty to take extreme means to keep the embryos alive .... These...embryos are frozen human life, but I believe they should be allowed to die and then dis­posed of in a dignified manner. " But the Vatican paper, L'Osservatore Romano, called the planned destruction "a prena­tal massacre. " 

Charles Rice 
In the United States, no federal laws, and virtually no state laws, govern the disposal of frozen embryos. In Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court held that the unborn child is not a legal person until birth. He therefore has no constitutional right to life and may be killed at the vir­tual discretion of his mother. In Davis v. Davis, in 1992, the Tennessee Supreme Court ruled that frozen embryos con­ceived by a couple who later divorced were property and not persons. Most American clinics obtain directions from the parents as to disposition of frozen embryos, including storage, destruction, donation to other infertile couples or use in research. 
This British episode is interesting because the destruction was mandated by law and because each embryo, frozen or not, is a living human being. The humanity of the human embryo is clear. Let me offer an illustration. I have an "embryo donor selection list" sent by a clinic in another state to an inquirer who was authentically considering "adoption" by having a frozen embryo implanted in her own womb. The list describes, with respect to the "mother and father" of each embryo the follow­ing characteristics: Sex, Race, Blood Type, Ethnic Origin (of the mother and father of each parent), Height, Weight, Body Build, Skin Tone, Eye Color, Hair Color and Type, Years of College, Occupation and Special Interests. Do you want a child whose mother is Caucasian, blood type 0+, of Scots-Irish and German parentage, 5'3", 107 lbs., light blldy build, fair skin, blue eyes, blond and straight hair, with two years of col­lege, a homemaker, and with special interests in jazzercise and sewing? The father of her child is Caucasian, AB+ blood type, of Swedish and German­English parentage, 5'8", 165 lbs., medi­um build, fair ·skin, brown eyes, brown & straight hair, with 4 years of college, a Senior Programmer and with special interests in running and sports. 
For $6,600 you can have three of those selected embryos implanted in your womb. The prices are similar for embryos sold for experimentation rather than "adoption. n If federal funding for experiments on embryos is approved, the market will be strong. In 1994, a National Institutes of Health panel left open the possibility of funding experi­ments on embryos created from eggs harvested from aborted girls, who already have, in the womb, all the eggs they will ever have-an abundant source of supply for researchers. The Panel also recommended federal fund­ing for "the use of oocytes (female eggs) fertilized expressly for research." One historical counterpart is the slave auc­tion block in the pre-Civil War South. 
Against this subjection of the human being to technological utilitarianism, the Pope stands virtually alone. Last May, he asserted the "inviolable rights of the human being from his conception on behalf of all the embryos which are.. Subjected to freezing..., in many cases becoming an object of sheer experimen­tation or, worse, destined to pro­grammed destruction backed by law. " He urged "that the production of human 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

;ACC~NT 
Friday, August 30, 1996 page II 

By DAN CICHALSKI A"iMalll Arccou Ediwr 
B
nginning the Welcome Back Wnnknnd festivities this afttlrnoon is the Otlkial Wdconw Back Picnic on the Finld I louse Mall. From 4 to H p.m., you can enjoy food, dancing (lwware: you may be forend to do thn "Maearena"), food, prizns, frne photo bullons, food, and frne key chains, not to nwntion food. There ·will be plnnty of things to do and people to hump into and ask and answnr thn qunstion of the week ("flow was your summer?") until you've done il so much that the nnxt person to say "summer" to you will be clob­lmrml. 
And if you're hungry, there will be food. 
MOVIES 
"l>mtd Man Walking" is all at onen one of thn overall best rnovins of 11)1)(, and a highly controvllrsial, emotional film that sparks discussion and de­hatn IUnong those who view it. When it ran in tlwaters last snnwstnr, "Dead Man Walking" rnadn suc~h an impression that thrnn separate priests incorpo­ratml it into their homilies over thren wenks at Breen-Phillips llall. And hnginning last night, tlw Studenl Union Board is showing thn Oscar-nominated !lick as its semester-opening fllatum at Cushing Auditorium. 
Susan Sarandon won the Os­car for Best Actress for playing the lead role of Sister Helen Prejean, who was honored at Notre Dame's graduation cer­emonies in May. Prejean puts herself into an uncomfortable position when she decides to become the spiritual advisor to a Death How inmate, played by Sean Penn-who was also nomi­nated for an Oscar for his role. Director Tim Hobbins, making his debut behind the camera, also received a nomination in the Best Director category. Not bad for a rookie. 
As she becomes more involved with the convict, sentenced to die for murdering a young cou­ple on the backroads of Louisiana, Prejean must also deal with the wrath and hatred directed at her by the parents of the slain youths. Throughout the film, Sister Prejean wrestles with her own emotions as she tries to be "the face of love" for a murderer and rapist facing death while receiving harsh eriticism and animosity from the victims' families. 
Following the intense, emo­tional ending, viewers are left looking inside themselves and questioning their own beliefs revarding capital punishment­a 1lifficult topic to deal with, wh lther looking at it in light of rei' gion or not. No matter what your position is on the death pm alty, "Dead Man Walking" adequately depicts both sides, invr .king at least some eoncern for ,he other viewpoint. 
"Pead Man Walking" can be see 1 at Cushing for $2 tonight and tomorrow at 8 and 10 p.m. 
While it is an experienee to see a flick on the silver screen, seated in a dark theater sur­rounded by other moviegoers, gazing at a motion picture that consumes up to ninety percent of your field of view, Welcome Back Weekend 1996 provides a cinematic alternative that will not be possible in, oh, about two weeks when the weather turns frighteningly cold. 
Saturday night at 8:30 and 
10:00 p.m., "The Lion King" and "Seven" will be shown outdoors on North Quad for a movie experience not usually found in South Bend, or any other city for that matter. Both films have appeared on the Cushing screen in past years, and proved to be among the favorites of Domers, b.ased on the crowds that attended those engagements. This time, though, free popcorn and soda are included. 
"The Lion King" is among the best Disney cartoons ever and features the voices of (count them now) Matthew Broderick, Jonathan Taylor Thomas, Nathan Lane, Ernie Sabella, Jeremy Irons, Whoopi Goldberg, Cheech Marin, and Robert Guillome, not to mention the musical contributions of Hans Zimmer and Elton John. 
"Seven" stars Brad Pitt, an actor with some talent-a trace of which can be seen in the movie's final scene in the desert. Starring with the anti­shampoo Pitt is Morgan Free­man who, like James Earl Jones or Marlon Brando, is worth see­ing no matter what film he is in, especially if it is "The Shawshank Redemption." 
"Seven" was a fairly popular movie when first released, and quickly became known as one of those films with an Ending You Just Have To See, with a secret as big as, but much better than that of, "The Crying Game." As a psycho-killer with way too mueh time on his hands kills his victims by way of the Seven Deadly Sins (gluttony, greed/covetousness, sloth, lust, pride, wrath/anger, and envy), Pitt and Freeman try to traek him down before he completes the cycle. They do, in a way. 
The movie contains some rather, well, interesting scenes, you could say, which will be quite a spectacle spread out across the quad. Imagine a dead guy's stomach, just re­moved from his body during the autopsy and stretched to four times its size from being forced to eat pasta (no, he was not a hostage at North Dining Hall), spread across four stories over­looking North Quad. Now that's something to see. 
COMEDY 
Gerald B. Kelly has been her­alded as "The Hottest Comedic Sensation to Hit the Scene in Years!" He began his career imitating everyone at a young age in front of small crowds made up of his family, friends, and then Navy supervisors. 
Now he's on the comedy club and college circuit and plans to test his acting and singing tal­ents in the future. 
He's appeared at the Univer­sity of Maryland, Florida State, and the University of North Carolina as well as the Comic Connection in Boston and Monique's Comedy Hour in Baltimore. Among the per­formers "Green Eyes" Kelly has opened for are comedians Bill Bellamy and Damon Wayans, rapper Notorious B.I.G., and singer Keith Sweat. l-Ie's also been featured on HBO's "Def Comedy Jam" and "Showtime at the Apollo." 
In 1993, Kelly was named New Comic of the Year by the 2nd Annual Black Comedy Awards and is a contributing artist to the "Snaps" album and book. 
J.B. Smoove has been de­scribed as "a non-stop machine of physical comedy." And that's the best kind. His performance includes various perspectives of some of the intricacies of life such as growing up and getting an apartment. 
Smoove's resume includes "Def Comedy Jam" as well, in addition to the "Apollo Comedy Hour," "Showtime At the Apollo," and appearances on MTV and BET. 
Tickets for Comedy Night at Washington Hall featuring Smoove and Kelly are $3 for students and $5 for non-stu­dents. The show starts at 8 p.m. 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, August 30, 1996 
.NFL 
Fisher, Oilers reaping benefits of youth movement 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 
The Houston Oilers are improving in Texas. They expect to be even better in Tennessee. 
The Oilers' drastic improvement ­from 2-14 in 1994 to 7-9 last season ­has been largely lost in the rhetoric over the team's move to Tennessee in one or two more years. 
General manager Floyd Reese sees the Oilers' impending move as a part of the game. 
"The NFL is such that movement is a way of life. Whether you're a player, coach, general manager or trainer, it makes no difference," Reese said. 
"I think it's taken for granted. It's not something you look forward to, but you know it's a way of life. When time comes to move, you put your stuff in the car and get going." 
Coach Jeff Fisher has tried to keep his team's focus on the field and not on the anticipated low attendance at the Astrodome. Fewer than 30,000 fans are anticipated for Sunday's season opener against Kansas City. 
"We know it's something we'll be con­fronted with throughout the year so we're, just going to control the factors we can do something about," Fisher said. "Our players understand the fans are upset over losing their team. We hope to win so they will come out and support us." 
Players say the controversy has brought them closer. 
"This team seemS-more together, it clicks together," tight end Frank Wycheck said. "It's more like a family even though there are new guys coming in, it seems they blend in. We know this year we can win some games." 
The Oilers will field a blend of youth and veterans this season that should continue to improve even after the team is in Nashville. 
Reisman Trophy winner Eddie George of Ohio State already has made an impact on offense and will push Rodney Thomas for the starting job at running back. The Oilers also signed free agent Ronnie Harmon as a third-down special­ist. 
Wycheck is expected to join Chris Sanders, newcomer Willie Davis and Derek Russell as effective receivers, and Pro Bowlers Bruce Matthews and Mark Stepnoski anchor the offensive line. 
Quarterback Chris Chandler is coming off one of his best seasons -his 63.2 
pass completion percentage was fifth best in the NFL. He'll get plenty of com­petition from Steve McNair, the No. 1 pick last season. 
Reggie Roby signed on as the Oilers punter, replacing Rich Camarillo. Roby is with his third team in as many sea­sons and likes what he sees with the Oilers. 
"Being with Tampa Bay last year and the Redskins the year before, in this camp here seems to be a mentality of 'Let's get this done,"' Roby said. "I think we're all feeling comfortable with each other." 
Davis, wlw didn't get enough playing time to suit him last season with Kansas City, expects more production with the Oilers. 
"We got a couple of young receivers out there who did a great job last year." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. <o 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from l2 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
HELP WANTED-$10.25 
Part-time work. Flexible eve. andNOTICES weekend hours. No exp. required. 
All majors welcome, Scholarships I'm looking for a STRINGING available. Info-call282-2357 MACHINE for my rackets. Call Alex #634-2689 BABYSITIER NEEDED 1-2 DAYS 
PER WEEK IN MY GRANGER Entertainment Electronics Co. HOME. TWO CHILDREN AGES 6 ROOM CLOSE TO CAMPUS MEALS LAUNDRY CLEANING LIBRARY COMPUTER & MODEM Mike 232-0550 
1 BDRM. IN 3-BDRM HOME. CLOSE TO NO, SAFE, USE OF ALL UTILITIES & KITCHEN. $275/MO. PAUL 232-2794. 
NEEDED: TICKETS for Purdue  Need 1 Purdue GA. Call 634-0549  WANTED--­ 
Game. Call (713)364-9140  Matt.  MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  
AND REGULAR STUDENT TICK­ 
I will pay big $$$ for student lb  NEED GA'S FOR THE WASH.  ETS $$$$$$  
books. Call Katie @ 243-9038.  GAME. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY.  CALL KIM MARTIN  
CALL#2456  273-4789  
Wanted: Student ticket books or  
student ticket applications.  NEEDTXGA'S  Buying N.D .. Football Tickets,  
Call x-1035.  CALL MARY  Public and Faculty Seats  
254-7647  Call 1-800-255-2850  
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  I NEED 2 PURDUE TIX  NEED Football Tickets  
RUTGERs TICKETS AVAILABLE  
CALL 272-7233.  FUTURE DOMER DYING TO  2 for OSU, Washington,  
SEE IRISH FOR HER  Airtorce, Pitt  
Buy-trade all games & season  10TH B-DAYI  
GA's. 24 hours & local cash pick- Call Laura 232-2976  
up. 312-404-4903  PLEASE CALL AMBER x3729  

3509 Grape All(@ Classic Stereo) & 8 FROM 3:30 PM • 6:00 PM. 255-1172 MUST HAVE RELIABLE TRANS-ROOMMATES NEEDED!!! Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 1 0-2 PORTATION. Females/non-smokers preferred. You break it, we'll fix it!!! PLEASE CALL 277-5786. 3 Bedroom House• Fully Furnished* 
Washer/Dryer• THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Part time help at Planet Tan. 2 Fireplaces*10 min drive from Breakfast Inn has space available Walking distance from campus. campus. $275 (utilities included) for football wknds. 5 Rooms with Flexible hours, $5.25 per hour. Call Call Natalie 291-7030. private baths, $70 -$90, 277-1166 or apply in person. 2128 Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. South Bend Ave, across from 
FOR SALE
Toll Road, Exit #107, Martin's. 
1-800-418-9487 
CHILDCARE POSITION: 89 tercel 80k auto $3200 Papa John's is now hiring 2:30 to 5:00, 3-4 days a week in our 271-8280 delivery drivers, order takers and Auten Ad home for two boys, ages pizza makers. Top pay, flexible 7 and 9. Must have car and refer-hours, close to campus locations. ences. $6.50/hr Mac Pwrbk 150, $500 50% off pizzas. Call your Papa now Call631-8301 day, 277-4422 Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000 for information or stop by for an evening. 271-8280 
application. NO-1827 South Bend Ave. (formerly Cactus Jack's) 271-ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 1986 Honda Civic Wagon 1177. SMC -North Village Mall -Students Needed I Fishing Auto 101k $1400 Runs good I 271-PAPA. Industry. Earn up to $3,000-277-4996 
$6,000+ per month. Room and Interested In Musical Theatre? Boardl Transportation! Male or Who Needs A Bed? Come see Student Players at Female. No experience necessary. 2 new single beds· for sale I Activities Night, Sept 3 Call (206)971-3510 extA55847 Mattress, Boxspring, and attheJACC Headboard included. Asking $275 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-each. Call Jarrod at Interested In Musical Theatre? Teach basic conversational English 234-7601. 
...........................,.... 
NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED I need student Ticket booksl ALL GAMES HOME NEED 4 PURDUE GA'S. WILL PAY Leave a message AND AWAY GOOD $$$. CALL x2456. for Bryan at: 232-0058 273-2812 24 HAS. I NEED TIX FOR NO-PURDUE $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ BUY -SELL -TRADE GAMEII (4 STUDENT, 3 GA) 
CALL COURTNEY X3525 
•·················•··· TICKET-MART, INC. 
Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE NOTRE DAME-VANDERBILT WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S 913-541-3240 ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL TICKETS AVAILABLE 232-0061. 
PERSONAL 
1-800-852-7771 I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6551 Student Activities is accepting applications for: 
·····················­
NO SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA SoundTechs I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S! FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK Set Up Crew WILL BEAT ANY OFFER I OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU Irish Express Clerks CALL 243-1287 SELL. 24 Hr. Lounge Monitors 
Come see Student Players at in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No Activities Night, Sept 3 teaching certificate or European attheJACC languages required. Inexpensive 
Room & Board + other benefits. For Interested In Musical Theatre? info. call: Come see Student Players at (206)971-3680 ext.K55842 
Activities Night, Sept 3 
attheJACC Earn extra money for only five min­utes a dayl 
Student carriers are needed to 
1986 Accord LXi Hatchback 5 spd loaded rustproofed excellent car 105k miles $3500 271-1040 
sofa sleeper for sale sleeps 2 seats 3 $200. beige, 5 yrs old i am 1 mile from nd call 272-3491 after 3 pm matt no stains,burns. 
674-7645. 
......... * • * 
Apply at 315 LaFortune between Need 2 Purdue GAs N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX 8am-5pm. Will pay $50 a piece BOUGHT & SOLD Call Jon at 634-1389 232-2378-A.M. THE COPY SHOP 
........... 
288-2726-P.M. in the LaFortune Student Center 
is NOW HIRING Need: two tickets to Purdue game NO PARENTS NEED 2-4 FOOT-student employees! and one ticket to Washington game. BALL TIX FOR WASHINGTON Stop in for details and to apply. Call Travis@ 219-634-1580. GAME. CALL MIKE V. 634-0997. 
Dorm Fumitiure. Yard Sale. Infant, deliver the Chicago Tribune inside kid's & women clothes. Computer, all dorms for this school year. Math & other books. Sat. Aug.31 & Please call 684-4302 for more infor-Sun Sep. 1, 9-5. 52795 Hollyhock. mation. 
Between Cleveland & Darden 
MALE/FEMALE ROOMMATE Students: Do you need a typist? WANTED.OAKHILL Call Kathy at 277-2178. CONDOS.VEAY SAFE.10MIN 
FROM NO. 50% off-used books bought/sold. 2 CALL 277-4924 
1995 MOTORCYCLE SUZUKI 
DR DUAL SPORT, 
EXCELLENT CONDITION, 
$3,300. 277-3670. 
KINGSIZE WATERBED WITH WAVELESS MATIAESS & HEATER. BEST OFFER OVER 150.00 277-1711 
day ordering, any textbook. 4 blocks South (Notre Dame ­
FOR RENT
Howard.) 7 days 10-6; 233-2342. CAR FOR SALE 
Pandora's books. 1993 EAGLE TALON ES HATCH· Nice 2BR+ 1 Bath Apt. 5 mins from BACK 16V WHITE campus. 289-3790 Fully-Equipped, Like New in Perfect
jLOST&FOUNDI 
Condition, Reasof)ably Priced 
Call273-8997 or 631-5884 LOST -a camera at Bridget's Non smoking female roomate want-at the end of spring semester ed to share nice home. Large bed-COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306 
Need stud. tkt app I book! $$$ x4893 
NEED STUDENT TICKET BOOK­LETS-DAVE -271-8019 
NEEDED: 
• MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS FOR SEASON 
*GAsFOAOSU WILL BARGAIN, CALL 258-6056 
•• HEADIN' TO TEXAS •• Can you sell us NO -UT tix? call Todd x1668 or Shan x1833 
Heyllll COME JOIN THE KNIGHTS NO ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL OF COLUMBUS (the largest ser-SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON-vice, social, and religious organiza-AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL lion at Notre Dame, and in the 2773097 country!). 
We're having open house every WILL TRADE 2 VANDERBILT TIX night-i:ome by and have a Cokel FOR 2 BC OR ANY HOME GAME 2773097 GREEN LANTERN is looking lor a 
bass player. Call Dan 3674 
FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2 $5.50 HAIRCUT OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER VITO'S BARBERSHOP CALL AOBT. COLLECT 1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST 216-439-2192 AFTER 4 SOUTH BEND 
8-5-M-F NEED 2 PURDUE TICKETS Ill I 8-4-SAT. 
PLEASE CALL X3886 
Are you stressed and tense? WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE For light exercise, try Ta'i Chi, 
if found please call Nicole x1412 room, completely furnished. $300 depositl$300 month. 9 or 12 month VW 90 JETIA GL 2DA 5SPD lease. You'll love it. Call631-1297. SNAF SPAT-TUNED. IMMACU­

LATE! $6950/BEST 277-3569 
WANTED 
3BDRM HOUSE 
NORTH OF N.D. TECH LINE DAP-FANT DRESS­NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-277-3097 EAIDSK WHITE EXCLNT CND $98 Positions are now availalbe at 277-3569 National Parks, Forests & Wildlife 1, 2 & 3 BDAM HOMES NEAR Preserves. Excellent benefits + CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306 FOR SALE: bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 NEW WOODEN FUTON FRAME extN55848 OWNER TO SUBLET PURDUE WITH RED FUTON. MAKES INTO 
WK-END OR WK 9/13-9/20 AT SOFA OR DOUBLE BED. $150.00 OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE, Grape VARSITY CLUB RESORT HOTEL 277-6438 Road. Mishawaka, is expanding its AT DISCOUNT. SLEEPS 4, staff for the ND Football season. KITCHEN, HOT TUB, POOL, 
TICKETS
Outgoing, self-motivating individu-SPORTS LOUNGE, ETC. $200 Need 3 RESERVED SEAT tickets for WASH. Call Brian @ 1648. 
I NEED 2 PURDUE GAS PLEASE CALL ANDREW X1942 
Need 4 Purdue GAs. Call Bobby x1902. 
WANTED: 2 GA's Season Ticket Please call at256-0174, 6:00pm 
NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET STUDENT OR GA CALL AMY X4218 
OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL Sundays 10-Noon. DAVE (614)764-7355 Look for club group on North Quad, 
by fountain. NEED PURDUE TIX Call John Kane 4-3536. PLEASE CALL X4717 
................... 
Need Two Washington G.A.'s for family, my tuition depends on it. Will pay HUGE bucksl Call Matt@ 234-8474 Thanks.  TONIGHT!!! STOMPEA BOB  
Will pay big bucks for student sea­son tix. Matt@ 234-8474.  with special guest PRESSURE DROP of Cleveland, Ohio  

FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT at Jazzman's 10 pm TONIGHT 
als should apply in person. Now hir-WK-END NITES, $700/WK. 219-YOU! Alum seeks happiness & 
....................
ing tor wait, bus and host positions. 291-5849 G.A.s SEASON TICKETS G.A WANTED: Student ticket app. fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful-Come in after 3pm today! WANTED PLEASE HELP IF Call 243-9193 ly pay TOO MUCH $ tor 2 GA tixs. ---------FURNISHED ROOM, AIR, YOU CAN CALL; 273-6929 OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred, Downy is a Iabrie sollner. I know. Make money selling great KITCHEN, PHONE, 3 MIN. N. OF Need 2 OSU GA's, will buy/trade but not picky. Please call our busi-know. Someday I'll get it straight. European sweaters. Call for inter-CAMPUS. Wanted: GAs for all games, sea-have Rutgers and USC. 634-0549 ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or view. 237-0866 272-0615. son GAs. Call soon! 272-7223 Matt JENNIFER. 616-925-0629 I want a rematch. 

------------------------------~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------------~~--­
•'
• WoMEN's SoccER 
Defending champs begin road to repeating this weekend 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
The women's soccer team is starting their season off on a subtle note, as they face two quiet teams this weekend. The Irish will take Providence on Saturday, and then face Boston College on Sunday. The team has been focusing on them­selves rather than the opposi­tion, due to it being so early in the season. 
"Hight now we are sorting ourselves out," said head coach Chris Petrucelli about this week's workouts. "We are looking to lind out if what we have been working on in prac­tice is going to carry on to the field." 
The team has been trying to get the kinks out of their game. Since the scrimmage against Miehigan, the lrisli have been concentrating on their defense. 
"The defense will be a lot bet­

THAI RESTAURANT 
"The first Thai restaurant in town. We invite you to try world class cuisine, Thai cuisine, the delicate art that descends from primogenitor. Thai cuisine is designed to excite your five senses; sweet, sour, salty, spicy, and 
natural." Now Hiring 
Comedy Night 
Friday, August 30 
eaturing: 

/.B. Smoove 

$3 for students $5 for non-students 
~ 
\\.\.}S\\1 
Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Student Center Information Desk 
ter this year," stated junior Kate Sobrero. 
"We have gotten the kinks out and solved everything. Now we are playing well." 
"This week we have been sorting out our defense," said Petrucelli. "We are working things out with Jen." 
Freshman sweeper Jen Grubb will solidify the back line for the defense. Grubb is not the only freshman who will be in the starting lineup. She will be joined by Jenny Strciffer, and Kara Brown. Streiffer will be playing forward, while Brown will start at right midfield. 
This freshman class is packed with talent, and the other mem­bers of the team will be the first to acknowledge their creden­tials. 
"They are all really talented," stated Sobrero. "And really mature on the playing field. This week was the time for us to focus on team play. We are 

Gerald "Green Eyes" Kelly 
Washington Hall at8pm Sponsored By: Student Activities 
Student Union Board 
Hours 
Lunch 
Mon-Fri 11am-2pm 
Dinner 
Mon-Thu, Sun Spm-9pm 
Fri-Sat Spm-9:30pm 
211 
0 L
-+-___;=-..,A 
C 
N. MAIN 
s
0 
ST. 
A
L 
L
F A 
L X 
E
~s'\· 
.,~f.\c.'f\ \ G~ 
1232-4445 1 
211 N. Main St. South Bend, IN 46601 
L-______________
Freshmen encouraged to apply. 
also trying to get the freshmen weeks' practices. one is working on. These indi­into the game, and gain a According to sophomore vidual goals are ultimatelychemistry," stated senior cap­Laura Vanderberg, "We have going to lead us to the big one, 
tain Cindy Daws about this past set individual goals that every-the national championship." 

The Obseover/Robert Finch 
Forward Jenny Streiffer and her Irish teammates begin the 1996 season this weekend against Providence 
and Boston College in their quest to repeat as national champions. 
Now Hiring••• 
"W"eb Production Team. Members 
'\.Vo,.~dwid<:\Veb of· ~a<:h 
The "Web Production Tean> Members are responsible f'or publishing the daily edition oF the Observer on the Internet~ The Obsel"'\l'"er offa:rs one o£ the best learning opportunities f"or Worldw-ide 'Web publashing.. I~ you it.re inter':sted, please subrnit a one page letter of' tntent descrtbtng your expertence to Jason Huggins at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center, by Tuesday, September 3. 

• Silver Rings 
We Buy Used 
10% OFF M~~~~~~:7 
Sat: 10-6
Levi's 
with atudeot ID 
closed Sun. 
Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line
THE 
1912 S. 11th, Niles Belle Plaza
smE 
687-9123
CO., INC. VISA
--llil ­
•
•
•
•
•
• 
• • ­
• R~~~ •
. .--~ 

Entertainment Electronics Co. 
~'You break it. we'll fix it!!" 
Car & Home Stereos VCRs • TVs • Camcorders CD Players • PCs 
call255 • 1172 3509 N. Grape Road (at Classic Stereo) hours: Mon -Fri: I 1-5 
Sat: 10 • 2 
• 
Hip Huggers 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Mexican Bookbags 

• 
Urban Outfitters (retro 60's style) 

• 
Hemp Jewelry 


r--=-::-=-::--:=--=----, 



Open 'DII 4a.m.Friday-saturdaY 
I and 2a.m.Sunday-Thursday 
I ! 
I 
I I -Open Everyday for luneh
i 
r------------------------------, 
: Hand Tossed 
Ptus rAX 
or 
I 
I I 
1 1 Thin crust \~t LargeI ~ I 
~ ~~~~ 
L------------------------------~
r--------------, r-------.-------, 
I 
Pizza-sub and: 
Bread ::$ 
:~ 
11 
Coke 1
99
Sticks Your 3 favorite pizza I
I 
with any pizza or : : toppings smothered with II mozzarella and baked 
pizza-sub purchase11
I fresh on an 8" hoagie ron I 


Not Valid with other offers 
------~-~~----·~--­
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
petitive in the conference, despite injuries that seem to have been nagging them for over a year now. 
Among the potential starters now on the injured list are freshman star Ryan Cox and junior forward Ryan Turner. Turner, who missed last season with a stress fracture in his lower back, had a excellent freshman year, posting four goals, seven assists, and 59 shots on goal in 19 starts. 
The Scottsdale, Ariz. native is one those guys that has Berticelli thinking big already. 
"lie (Turner) could be one of the top three or four forwards in the country." As of now, Turner is recovering from pulled groin, but is not expect­ed to be out of action for much longer. 
Cox, while still unproven at the collegiate level, owns his high school's records for goals (62), assists (42), and points ( 1 66), and was one of 13 for­wards to make the Parade All­American team. His ankle injury has limited his playing time in the preseason. 
Berticelli's team will come out Saturday in a 3-5-2 set, which allows for three defend­ers, five midfielders, two attackers, and a goalkeeper. Sophomore Greg Velho will get the start in goal behind a back line of freshman Alan Woods at left back, senior Peter Gansler at right back, and senior Brian Engesser at sweeper. 
Across the middle for the Irish will be senior Tony Capasso on the right, sopho­more Ben Bocklage or senior Chris Mathis on the left, and freshman Matt McNew in the center, with sophomore Matt Johnson at defensive midfielder and stmior Konstantin Koloskov at attacking midfielder. 
Finally, juniors Bill Savarino and Scott Wells should lead the offensive charge for coach 
The Observer • SPORTS 
page 15 
and a strong recruiting class, 
-
currently sit at seventh among the twelve conference teams. 
Although it will be anything but a picnic for the Irish in con­ference play this season, both Berticelli and his players believe that the experience they gained last season will be crucial in their development into a Big East title contender. 
"Coming into this season, the players have an extremely pos­itive attitude," mused Berticelli. "The team unity is very strong ­as strong as I've seen it among these guys. Our goal is to stay focused and make it to the Big East Tournament this season. We're just going to have to take it week by week." 
Senior tri-captain and defender Peter Gansler echoed Berticelli's sentiments, stating, "It's important that we show up for every game. We know now we can't afford to give one up. Last year taught us that les­son." 
Senior midfielder and spark­plug of the offense Konstantin Koloskov agrees with Gansler, and cites a greater defensive effort as key to the team's suc­cess. 
"We definitely gained a lot of experience last season, com­mented Koloskov. "What will be crucial for us is to concen­trate on defending. Right now we look pretty good defensive­ly, and we need to maintain that focus." 
Perhaps the experience of last season can best be summed up in Gansler's own words: 
"Last year was kind of a rude awakening," said the senior defender. 
The task that awaits the Irish this season is not to let them­selves fall back to sleep. Their collective psyche may not be able to handle another night­mare. 
-

St. John's 
continued from page 20 
as they sit atop the Big East Preseason Coaches' Poll with 118 points and nine first place votes. The Storm is also gain­ing national attention, and are currently ranked ninth in Soccer America's preseason Top 25 poll. Among the Storm's many guns are first­team All American Ben Hickey and Jessie Van Saun, the Big East's top returning scorer. 
"St. John's has a very talent­ed, very experienced team," commented Berticelli, whose Irish absorbed a 6-0 drubbing at the hands of the Red Storm last season. "They are, without question, the powerhouse in the conference." 
Last season's regular season Big East champion, the Boston College Eagles, finished a close second in the balloting with 106 total points and the remaining three first place votes. The Eagles won the con­ference with an 8-1-1 record behind the play of current New England Revolution striker Paul Keegan, and are returning fellow Irishman and All-Big East First Teamer Anthony Buckley. 
The always dangerous Rutgers Scarlet Knights fin­ished third in the polling, and are looking to improve on their 5-2-4 league record as new­comers last season. The Knights, despite losing All­American and U.S. under-23 forward Hamisi Amani-Dove to the MLS, look primed for a big season, having defeated peren­nial powerhouse Virginia 1-0 in a recent preseason matchup. 
Seton Hall and Georgetown round out the top five, and the Irish, who should benefit from greater big-game experience 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
The Observer 
is now hiring for the following position: 
Illustrator 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Senior midfielders Tony Capasso and Konstantin Koloskov form part of the backbone of an Irish soccer team that would like to improve upon its disappointing inaugural season in the Big East. 
Berticelli's troops. Berticelli. 
When asked about the strate­·"We feel that (qualifying for) gy of using the 3-5-2, Berticelli the Big East (tournament) is explained, "We want to get as realistic. many dangerous guys on the "We have to set immediate field as we can." He also men­goals and bite off each chal­tioned that Cox and fellow lenge as it comes." freshman Andrew Aris could That said, Berticelli went on see time at forward tomorrow. to speak of even bigger things. 
Every one of the players seem "The Final Four is always a to be confident, but down to goal," said the coach, "but to earth when discussing the task have a destination is not that has been placed before enough. them. "We need a map of how to get 
"We know that we can play there (Richmond, VA)." with these teams," stated If the team can heal their Gansler. "It's just a matter of present wounds and take one being able to do it for 90 min­game at a time, they may just utes." surprise everyone. 
Cox added, "Our goal is to get In Berticelli's eyes, all they into the Big East tournament. need to do is "follow the map to We have to take it one step at a Richmond." And Richmond. in time." any Irish eyes would mean 
This sentiment was echoed by redemption. 
dine with your  
Papa...  
...Dine-In and  "The Most Popular Number on  
Delivery now at  Campus"  
both Locations!  


~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1995-1996 Observer 
~yoted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1993 Best of Michiana 
~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1994 Best of Michiana 
~oted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1995 Best of Michiana 
iifvoted "Best Delivered Pizza" 1996 Best of Michiana 
Hours: 
*New for SMC s10re 
Mon t IHu Thurs: 
1 1 a.m. -1 a.m. Fri tiHll Sat: 
I 1 a.m. -3 a.m. Sunday: 
1~ p.m.-1 a.nL 
r-----,
Lar~, 
I Par1.~',1~-,:k1 
IFou$1·UU: e ToppinglI f I I ~· 495 I L-----.J 

It's time to 

Saint Mary's: 
North Village Mall 
271­
PAPA 
271­
1177 
Notre Dame: 
formerly Cactus Jack's 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, August 30, 1996 
-
• fOOTBAll 
Intangibles vital 
to Irish run at title 

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
Irish team members, like tailback/wide receiver Autry Denson (pictured), feel they have developed the confi­dence and comraderie that it takes to win the coveted national championship. 
By JOE VILLINSKI 
Associate Sports Editor 
Besides possessing a solid defensive front, a talented backfield, and a protective offensive line, the Notre Dame football team also has some­thing this year not measured on the depth chart. 
Head coach Lou Holtz and other Irish players have com­mented on the type of commit­ment the team has made to each other. The entire squad has developed a tight-knit feel­ing heading into next week's opener at Vanderbilt. 
This feeling is just one of the intangibles that will be a factor in determining the season's outcome. 
While Notre Dame teams have been cohesive in the past, Holtz realizes he's already got a special one on of his hands. 
"I think this is a very close football team," Holtz said. "I think it's about as close a foot­ball team as I've been around." 
"The closeness will make a difference this year," wide receiver/tailback Autry Denson said. 
"It's not that it wasn't that way last year, but this is a close knit bunch. You just have to kind of be around it. It's kind of indescribable." 
The preseason camp at Culver also helped cement a bond. In being away for a week, the Irish could develop a system of support which will manifest itself in the upcoming games. 
"You have to depend on each other to keep your spirits up," Denson added. "You may get frustrated at times, but that's when you turn to each other for support." 
"We had an excellent presea­son camp at Culver," Holtz said. 
"I visited with the head of Culver and he complemented on how well-behaved our play­ers were. It is a close knit team. They like the game and they like each other." 
Culver served two purposes in developing a team com­raderie. In addition to getting to know each other, the time away aided in creating a focus. 
"During that week, there are a lot of things happening on campus," Holtz said. "At Culver, it's just total football. There's nothing else. We spent 16 or 17 hours either practic­ing or in meetings." 
"It's a good experience," cor­nerback Ivory Covington said. "It gives you those tight knit friendships and bonds that can't be broken." 
A certain confidence also emanates from playing with your friends. 
"Our confidence level is up," Covington added. 
"We rely on each other and whatever we do is a team effort." 


GeiPi& •Blue Nachos
•Dinner Salad 
•Buffalo Breath Chili 
•Taco Salad 
•Buffalo Breath
-•Chargrilled 
Nachos
Chicken 
•Chicken 
Fajitas

•Steak 
F 



SANDWICHES 
•Beef-On-Week •Burger-On-Week•Chicken-On-Week 
SAlADS 
WE ACCEPT ALL MAJOR CREDIT CARDS 

.___, 
~---·------------------------~-­
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
BIATHLON • RecSports will be sponsoring a Biathlon on Suturday, August 31, at 10:30 
a.m. The Biathlon will consist of a 1/2 mile swim plus a two mile run. The event takes place at St. Joe Beach and you must register in advance at the HeeSports oflice. There will be individual or team competition in both v.arsity and non-varsity divisions. There is no chnrge for this event. For more info call HecSports at 1-6100. 
SCUBA COURSE -The infor­mation meeting for this course will be Sunday, September 1, at 1:00 p.m. in Rockne Bm 
218. There will be seven classroom and pool sessions beginning September 8. Completion of course results in YMCA Lifetime Certification. For more info eall HecSports at 1-6100. 
SHOHIN-HYU KAHATE ­Students aro instructed according to traditional Okinawan techniques. Semester long course that moots in Rockne 219 T/TR 6:00-7:30 starting Thursday, September 12. You must register in advance at llecSports and the fee is $18.00. A demonstration will 
WELCOME BACK STUDENTS FROM 

'I"FIE 
NOTRE DAME GOLF COURSE 

FALL PASSES A 
Fro~n Orien'a'ion 'hrough end ofseason $50.00 
VISIT OUR PRO SHOP IN THE ROCKNE 
NIKE 
TITLEIST CUTTER & BUCK TOMMY HILFIGER 
AND M:UCH M:ORE 
be held on Tuesday, September 10, at 6:00 in Rockne Rm 219. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more information. 
WOMEN'S SAFETY AND SELF-DEFENSE -This course exposes women to basic self­defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Class meets for ten sessions on MIW from 6:30-7:45 in Rockne Rm 
219. The instructor for this course is Frari McCann who is n faculty member in the Physical education depart­ment. Class begins on Monday, September 9, and is open to students and staff. Class size is limited and there is a fee of' $12.00. For more info call RtlcS'ports at 1-6100. 
BALLET -Students will be instructed according to their level. Semester long course that meets on Sundays from 2:15-3:30 and Thursdays from 6:45-8:15 in Rockne Rm. 301. An Informational meeting will be held Sunday. September 8. at 2:15 in Rockne Rm. 301. The fee for the class is $35.00 and you must register in ad· vance at RecSports. Sign-ups begin on Monday, September 
9. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more info. 
HORSEBACK RIDING LESSONS • The information meeting for this course will be Thursday, September 12, 6:00 
p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom, The course consists of five lessons that will take place on Thursday from 4:00-5:00. Students will be in­structed according to English Style and all levels are wei· come. For more info. call RecSports at 631-6100. Classes begin on Thursday, September 19, and space is limited. 
ATHLETIC COMMISSIONERS 
All Hall Athletic Commissioners need to contact the RecSports office. We need names, phone numbers, and addresses. Please call us at 631-5100. 
LACROSSE • All those inter­ested in men's varsity lacrosse should attend a meeting at 4:00p.m. on Friday, August 30 in the Loftus Auditorium. 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE • All those interested in women's varsity lacrosse should attend tryouts on Sunday. September 1 at 4:00 p.m. in the Loftus Auditorium. Bring schedules, and call 1-4719 for more info. 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
ference rivals. 
The Irish enter its second year as a member of the Big East conference as the unani­mous first place pick and they are sending out an invitation for anyone to prove otherwise. 
After they swept the confer­ence last year 11-0 and lost only one senior who saw play­ing time, it is unlikely that any team will do so. 
"I think that if we play well or even a little bit off, we should be able to be any of the conference teams," Irish head coach Debbie Brown said. 
However, Brown is quick to credit Pittsburgh's ability to rain on the Irish parade. 
Pitt, who was voted second in the pre-season rankings, returns All-Big East first team middle hitter Jennie Driscoll and second team setter Stephanie Dufresne, who in their last season will aim to finally knock off the Irish team that has destroyed their hopes of advancement in the NCAA tournament the last two sea­sons. 
"Pitt is going to be very good," Brown commented. "They should give us a good match." 
"If we don't play well against them, the potential is there for a loss." 
The fact that Pitt has played the Irish two years in a row now might give them a bit of advantage, but has done little for them so far. This raises the question of whether having played the Irish and seeing them play familiar teams will benefit any of the conference teams. 
Brown does not think so. 
"I don't mean to sound arro­gant, but the fact that they know what to expect doesn't really put them in a position to do anything about it." 
Much of the Irish advantage comes from the support and recognition the Irish volleyball program, in general, receives. 
"For many of our conference opponents, they are not sup­ported as well as we are," Brown added. "Most of them don't receive the full twelve scholarships like we do." 
"So to expect them to be on the same level as us is unfair." 
Still, the Irish must maintain that level of play in order to once again complete their reign as Big East Champions. 
Connecticut sits at third place in the preseason voting with Georgetown, Villanova, and Syracuse rounding out the pre­dicted top half. 
Villanova could prove them­selves as a conference dark­horse as they return five starters. However, a coaching change will be a major factor in the Wildcats' performance this season. 
Regardless. the Irish still rule the block and are not planning on giving up their reign any time soon. 
Pro Shop I-Iou.:rs Mon-Fri 6:30AM-7:00PM Snt -Sun 6:00AM -7:00PM: 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
Over 100 Movies all year long ! ! ! 
WoNDfllfUL MO\'tE· 
College Students Are A Student 
* Haircuts For Only $7.00 256-9585 For (With Student JD) Appointment 
• Shampoo, Cut, & Blow Dry Mon.-Fri. 9:00-8:00 Only $11.00 Sat. 9:00-5:00 
page 18 "The Observer· SPORTS Friday, August 30, 1996 
occasionally and things may not much for her offensive prowess, be quite as smooth as they were but for her activity in other with Carey, but since our pass­aspects of the game. ing game is so good that makes "Heading into the season the setter's job that much easi­Kristina is our best backrow er." player," Brown mentioned. 
Birkner shares some of the "She passes very well and has same feelings about the situa­great defensive pursuit." tion, "May was obviously The right side hitter slot will important. Jaime and Lauren be entrusted to the very capa­are working really hard and we ble hands of Jenny Birkner. are just trying to connect until Depth at the hitter positions she comes back." will be six foot freshman Mandi 
Lee who had played outside Powell out of Monroeville, IN 
. hitter and middle blocker earli­and fellow classmate Emily er in her career describes the Schiebout from Blaine MN. transition. "It will be a great Schiebout has to recover from challenge for me but I'm excit­ACL injuries on both knees. In ed. This forces everybody to the all important position of pull together. Each day the middle blocker, coach connections with the hitters are McLaughlin will have five ath­getting better and the team has letes to work with on the team's been very supportive." more aggressive blocking phi­
Lee will be setting all-ameri­losophy. can hopeful Angie Harris, who "All five middles will push led the Big East in kills and each other and we won't be aces. breaking down at that position, 
Brown describes the six-foot­whereas last year our options er's explosiveness, "When were limited," Brown Angie's jump serve is on, she is explained. very intimidating and helps Debbie Brown has built the score a lot of points .•The sky's Notre Dame program to a the limit to what Angie could perinnial power. And with the do." added depth and a new assis­
With Lee being shuffled to tant coach with a new style, the setter from outside hitter, Ervin Notre Dame volleyball team is will fill the void left by Lee. prepared to make the next step Ervin will be looked for not so into legitimate title contention. 
~ 
USED FURNITURE ~ 1 Household Items -Clothing 
1 
• 
® The Salvation Army Thrift Store 506 South Main Street South Bend, IN 46601 
Store Hours 
10% Monday -Saturday 
Student & Faculty
#288-2539
9:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. 
Discount With 1.0. 
------Pinnacle 
continued from page 20 
Coach Brown realizes the dif­ficulty of the schedule but explains its importance. "This is the kind of competition we need to play if we want to make the next step." 
Notre Dame, ranked in the top ten of both polls, returns nine out of ten players from last year's roster including all six starters and four seniors. Many new faces also give the Irish reason to feel confident about this year's season. With the abundant experience and added depth with a fifteen per­son roster, the Domers should be in the thick of the title hunt. 
"One of the main differences from last year to this is that we have so much more depth," Brown assessed. "Last season was a fun year but having only ten players put a lot of stress on everybody. We had some play­ers who weren't 100 percent and it was difficult to get a lot of work done as a team. Having more players will help us to be not fatigued as easily." 
An outstanding core of seniors return for their last run for a title. Captain Jenny Birkner is coming off a stellar junior campaign in which she earned Big East player of the year honors. 
Some of Birkner's other per­sonal achievements include the second-best hitting percentage in ND history as well as reach­ing plateaus such as 250 kills, 320 digs, 20 aces, 70 assists and 80 blocks in every year of her career. However, the right side hitter's leadership and consistency are what makes her so vital in their success. 
"Jenny is doing a great job as a captain," praises Brown. 
"She leads by example and she has great dedication and com­mitment to the team. She doesn't care about her own accolades. The team is first with Birkner. She is very focused and the team has a lot of respect for her dedication to volleyball." 
Birkner's mission is clear as crystal. "We want to win the national championship. We made it to the final sixteen last year and I think we could have done better. Right now we are trying to stay unified and we concentrate on playing togeth­er." 
Birkner and her classmates; middle blocker Jennifer Briggs, outside hitter Kristina Ervin and middle blocker Jennifer Rouse were a special group of recruits in Brown's eyes four years ago. 
"This year's seniors are the first group of recruits that I ever talked to about competing for a national championship." Brown continues, "There is something about senior year as it is their last chance, so they hold their younger teammates responsible for their individual duties." 
Brown also acclaims their unity. "There is a good bond when the four of them are on the court at the same time. They realize that. We're here and we have a job to do so lets do it.' And now, the ingredients are coming together to make their fmal season a very memo­rable one." 
Some of those ingredients will be added by first year assistant coach Jim McLaughlin. One of the weak links in the Irish attack of the past was their blocking skills. 
McLaughlin spent seven years as a head coach for the University of Southern California's men's squad. The newcomer will help to remedy blocking problems with his keen knowledge of the game and being an expert on block­ing technique. 
"We have spent a lot of time on blocking and refining our techniques and I think that will payoff really big," Brown pre­dicted. "We are a good defen­sive team and we are a really above average passing team so we will be able to score points faster and more efficiently." 
Birkner also explained how the team will be improved from last year's 27-7 mark, "We have the same players back from last year, and after play­ing an entire year together we have better team chemistry." 
One of the early season's con­cerns will be how three of those veteran players recover from spring surgeries. Briggs (knees), Rouse (reconstructive ankle surgery) and junior out­side hitter Angie Harris (anteri­or cruciate ligament injury) have all worked hard to stay in shape and be as close to top form as possible for the opener this weekend. 
Brown assess the situation. "They have all done really well although they are not at 100 percent quite yet. They have been able to push through their injuries and are all in position to play. There is still a ways to go for their vertical jumps, but their skills look very good." 
However, junior setter Carey May suffered a dislocated shoulder about a week and a half ago and will be out for another three to five weeks. 
Junior outside hitter, Jaime Lee, will slide into the setter slot in May's absence while the versatile and all-around skilled freshman Lauren Stettin will piay setter in a backup role. 
"Lee is doing really well," said Brown. "She may misfire 
Call The Huddle at 1-6902 
r-----------------------------------------, 
IAnyLargel4" : Pizza Delivered  $5.99  Tom·ass•ltO'S11  
1Unlimited  Deal  
:Toppings  Call the Huddle at 1-6902  Delivering the Most Variety  1  
1 $5.99  coupon expire~ 9/27/96  1  

L-----------------------------------------~
r-----------------------------------------, 
:Large 14" cheese $4.99 Tomassito'S : : Pizza Delivered Dea,l : : $4.99 Call the Huddle at 1-6902 Delivering the Most Variety : 
1 coupon expires 9/27/96 1 
L-----------------------------------------~ 
r-----------------------------------------,
14"
1An~ T~o Large . $11.99 Tomassito 's 1 
: Unhm1ted Topp1ng D l : 1 Pizzas & a 2 liter ea 1 
: Pop Delivered Call the Huddle at 1-6902 Delivering the Most Variety : I $11.99 coupon expires 9/27/96 I 
L-----------------------------------------~ 


Friday, August 30, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

year.
binoculars,28 Full-bodied 
1996 Summer Service Project Students and NYSP
1 Business 
perhaps a "Innocent 30 Maternity ward 
students are reminded that the follow-up celebration 
54 "Little Orphan
Blood" author slats. 
activities are on August 31 from 9:00-Noon, at the
Annie" villain, 
uCut, as 31 --china (fine with "the" 
Center for Social Concerns. 
coupons porcelain) 
55 Kind of fright 16 When it's 
33 Declared 56 Person in aimportant to 35 Handful? conflict 
•MENU
read the fine 58 Mideast capitalprint 36 An athlete may 
Notre Dame
turn this 60 Lyric poem11 There are many 
North South
in a pound 37 Puerta del Sol &1 "Juno and the 
site Paycock" setting 
18 Himmler's 
Chicken Gumbo New England Clam Chowder 
command 40 "Epithalamion" 
Fried Cod and Clams Fried Clams 
62 Sunbeam product 
19 Proclamation poet 
Garden Quiche Baked CaJun Haddock 
20 Nest egg of 44 Winter cry 
Stuffed Shells Cheese and Vegetable Pie 
63 Gluessorts 
45 Locker item 22 Ebbing and 
47 Bass, e.g.
flowing, e.g. 
DOWN 
48 Drop 
Saint Mary's
23 Word from the lovelorn 50 Desert shade 
1 Charged 2 Less reliable 
Roast Loin of Pork
24 Put together 
51 1976 hit"-­3 Worm (out of) 
Rotini Casserole 
26 Essence Gone" 41mitative 
Chopped Beef Steaks 
• 
5 "The Last Days 
Cream Cheese and Chives 
of Pompeii" 
Whipped Potatoes 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
heroine Puzzle by Dean Niles 

6 Wish undone 25 Fish on many 41 Hot and dry 49lnclines 1 One of the 
menus 42 Well-turned 51 Stone slab Apostles 
28 Effluvia 43 Forwards 
53 Regular fare 
Have
a Mobil Oil symbol 
29 More 44 Duke Mantee 
55 Biblical son
9 Magenta, e.g. 
calamitous portrayer100uip 57 Encl. with a 
something to say?
32 Regular: Abbr. 46 Sounds at
11 Cobweb site manuscript
34 "GoodFellas" medical 12 Grasslands 
checkups 59 Prior to
fellow 
Use
13 Grass for 37 Jim Backusmaking paper 
character 14 Minks and Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
The Observer 
38 Fort Apache
sables, e.g. are available by touch-tone phone:
locale
21 Informer 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
classifieds.
39 War of 1812 hero Stephen 
24 16th-century Annual subscriptions are available for the 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
MIXED MEDIA 

DILBERT 
I'VE. BECOME ONE OF 
THOSE. PEOPLE WHO MISINTE.RPRE.TS EVERY­
CROSSWORD 
Italian poet and satirist 40 Freethir.:<er 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
JACK OHMAN YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY RIRTHDA Y! IN THE issue an overdue invilalion. NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: A VIJ{GO (Aug. B-Sep1. 22): golden business opponunily will fall Business panners are more suppon­inlo your lap. II is lime logo all-oul ive !han usual. Pay a deb!. You will lo reach a professional goal, even if benefil from your male's prudence. you musl ask for favors. Family sup­Look for a way lo express your ron will be especially slrong early views effeclively. in 1997. Slop dreaming aboul lhe LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your ideal romarllic relalionship and do effons caplure the attention of inllu­somelhing lo improve !he one you enlial people. A professional rela­have. A child inspires you lo devel­lionship is in transilion. Do not op your lalenls. Financial assislance overlook an unexpected financial is available if you are hones! abou1 opponunily. your needs. Do somelhing you SCORJ>IO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21 ): should have done long ago. Gel a bellcr handle on your every­
CELEBRITIES HORN ON day spending. A coopcnuive attilude THIS DAY: skier Jean-Claude will help improve lhe Ulrnosphere al Killy, aclress Peggy Liplon, civil work. Group pnxJuclivily rises. Ful­
MIKE PETERS 
rigllls leader Roy Wilkins, singer fill your currerll obligalions before Killy Wells. laking on any new ones. Your male 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): applauds your diligence. People al a dislance applaud your SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. efforls. A projecl placed in your 21 ): Be skeplical if approached wilh hands willlurn ouljust great! Happy a deal !hal sounds loo good 10 be people bring out lhe best in you. 1rue. A long-sought professional or Widen your social circle 10 include financial goal moves within reach. new admirers. What are you wailing for? Go afler 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): whal you really want. Focus on promoling a highly origi­CAI>RICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. nal idea. Do nol wail for olhers 10 19): Simplify your life by gelling take action. Gel the ball rolling. You back to basics. lntelleclll"l pursuils are in lhe driver's seal where arc favored loday. Broadening your romance is concerned. horizons will inspire you 10 work 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Dcl­harder. Marshal your energies to egale as much responsibilily as pos­Iackie a projecl head-on. Children sible al work. Your relationship wilh follow your example. a business associale takes on special AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): meaning. A carefully chosen gifl Business negoliations should go could have greal sen1irnen1al value. wilhout a hilch. You feel ready lo 
SCOTT ADAMS CANCER (June 21-July 22): sellle down wilh romarllic parlner. The financial outlook brighlens. Call Look ahead. The riglll spouse will 
r-------------------------~ur-------------------------­
.. 
business comacls 10 arrange rneel­be an assel lo your career. Be more WI-\Y? ARE YOU 5AYING 
~ 
THIS COULD 
ings for nexl week. Rein in your discree1 about pasl liaisons.
f"\A.YBE '<OU
u sense of self-imponance, lesl others PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Be 
0 
E.
E 
THt>-T NOTHING SHOULD 
BE VERY
,; 
think you pompous. receptive to suggestions from your
SHOULD SEE
u 
;; 
i ~ LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): An ad­male or parlner. Give a child's
u 
A-NNOYING.
E..VER CHt>-NGE? MAYBE 
A THE~APIST 
mirer's allenlions have you walking desires speci"l consideration. An on air. Seek financial backing frnrn attraclive member of the opposile new sources. Horne life will he a sex "PJlCars on the scene. A spirited whirl of aclivily. If renewing" exchange of ide"' brings fresh friendship is P"rl of your agenda, insights . 
• OF INTEREST 
Notre Dame Martial Arts Institute Current meme­bers will meet today t:rom 6:30-8:30 and Saturday 
..
10:00·12:00 at the Rock for the ru-st workout of the 
50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D  Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  

D Enclosed is $40 for one semester Name ______________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City-------------State ______ Zip._______ 

SPORTS Weekend 
page 20 Friday, August 30, 1996 
• VOllEYBAll 
Irish set 
to reach 
pinnacle 
ByJOECAVATO Spons Writer 
Over the past several years Notre Dame volleyball coach Debbie Brown has accom­plished her goal of construct­ing a top program. But for the 1996 Irish she and her team have a new goal in mind: to win a national championship. 
The squad will soon see what caliber team they are as their schedule contains many formidable opponents. The season opens with the Shamrock Classic against Central Florida, Toledo and a very good team from South Carolina who will compete for the SEC title. 
"This is exactly how we want to start the season," Brown states. "They are not top ten teams. but it will allow us to get game ready. It is a good opportunity to get experience under our belts and we can learn about what we can do."
r 
Then the Irish begin their national schedule which includes such powers as top ten teams Washington State and Penn State. The squad will also host Stanford, who is always up for the title. and they will travel to Hawaii for a pair of matches against the Rainbows, who are ranked first or second in the different polls. 
see PINNACLE/ page 18 

• MEN"s SOCCER 
Berticelli's squad 
• 
seeks redemption 
By BRIAN REINTHALER SportS Writer 
As in all collegiate athletics, a new season always seems to bring with it a feeling of optimism. For some teams, it is a chance to prove that their winning ways a year ago were not just a fluke. For others. it is the beginning of a journey toward redemption. Such is the case for the Notre Dame men's soccer team. 
Coming off a less than spectacular inaugural Big East sea­son, the Irish appear primed to erase the memories of last year. The squad has arrived at the end of a solid presea­son. and is ready to make its first of many stops on its sec­ond tour of the Big East schedule. The Irish leave town today and head east to take on the Providence Friars on Saturday. 
Head coach Mike Berticelli has made no effort to hide his excitement about this year's team. 
"We have sixteen players who are all starters," said the coach. who is entering his seventh year at the helm for the blue and gold. "That's the first time I can say that." 
As any soccer fan knows, it takes ten players and a goal­keeper to field a team. If Berticelli's players can live up to his billing, the team will clearly have the depth to be com-
see SOCCER I page 15 

Big East pack led by Notre Dame 
By BETSY BAKER Sports Writer 
At the beginning of last year. they were the new kids on the block. By the end of the season. they were the neighborhood bullies. 
This year, the Notre Dame volleyball team will be looking to inflict some more black eyes on its con-
see BIG EAST/ page 17 


St. J(>l1I1S lC)(Jks to ren1ain 
conference ~pc>vv-erh<)use' 
By DYLAN BARMMER Assistant SportS Editor 
The Big East conference has provided somewhat of a dichotomy for the Notre Dame athletic program thus far ­for some teams a blessing, and for others, closer to a curse. 
The conference, while not quite a curse. was less than kind to the Irish men's soccer team last season. dealing them a 4-7 record and shutting them out of postseason play. While much of the Irish's lack of success in the con­ference last season was due to injuries and inexperience, a good amount of the heartache must also be attributed to the sheer depth of the talent within the conference. 
That level of talent remains this season, and it's up to the Irish to prove that they can indeed play with the big boys. 
"The Big East is a very tough conference," offered head coach Mike Berticelli. "We hadn't even seen a lot of the teams play, yet alone played against them, so it was a tough situation for us. I have confidence that we will be better prepared to meet the challenge this season. howev­er." 
Leading the challenge will be the mighty St. John's Red Storm, who last season captured a league-record fourth consecutive Big East Tournament title and finished the sea­son with a 16-5-1 record. Soccer pundits and coaches alike are picking the Red Storm to repeat again this year. 
see ST. JOHN'S I page 15 

at Vanderbilt, September 5, 
• Football team has intangibles to win 
7:30p.m. 
vs. Central Florida, ar Providence, August 31, 

@ August 30, 7:00 p.m. see page 16 2:00p.m. 
Soccer at Ohio Wesleyan, 
• Women's soccer looks to repeat
~¢ August 31, 2:00 p.m. 
at Providence, August 31, see page 1312:00 p.m. 


