
Friday, February 2, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 81 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Film, panel explore role of women 
By KELLY BROOKS News Writer 
Faculty members and Afriean students met in a panel discussion to explore "The Role of Women in African Societies" after the screening of the film, "Faees of Women" in the Snite Museum on Thursday, Febru­ary 1. 
Dr. Peter Walshe, Professor Nalova Lyonga, Okinyo Wanyandeh, and Vincent Nmehielle participated in a roundtable discussion led by Professor Patricia Davis. The panel focused on their impres­sions of and reactions to the lilm. 
"This lilm, in my view, shows exactly what happens when you have the cultural, dual sex division of labor," explained Professor Lyonga, an English professor at St. Mary's. 
''I'm eoming from a literary standpoint...the most impor­tant question is whose voice? What is the tone?" Lyonga emphasized the importance of the women's song throughout the·. fin as the voice. "Through the film we see the whole society, but through song we hear all the voices." 
"Faces of Women" is a two part film which tells the story of a traditional woman in rural Africa and of a female-en­trepreneur in the post-colonial male dominated power struc­ture. 
The women must deal with breaking the structure of their rnspeetive systems. 
By cheating on her hus­band, the woman in the village teaches her husband a lesson; it's a rebellion against his posi­tion of power and the abuse of his power. 
see WOMEN I page 4 


Photos courtesy of Rae Sports The Late Night Olympics have grown over the past ten years to include 18 events. It allows students to compete in dorm events in order to raise money for Special Olympics. 


Passing the torch 
Olympics celebrate tenth 
year of late night events 

which benefit local cause 
By DAVE TYLER 
News Editor 
T
he winger steps behind the defense and finds himself all alone. He receives the pass, and cuts towards the waiting goalie, dream­ing of driving a shot over the shoulder of the net­minder. Suddenly his weight shifts and the winger finds himself flailing backwards, slipping, and landing squarely on his posterior. 
If this were the Detroit Red Wings' Sergei Fedorov blowing a potentially game-tying break­away in the seventh game of the Stanley Cup, he might never live it down. Because this is broom­ball at the Late Night Olympics, the winger and his teammates can laugh about it later. 
It's easy to laugh about having a good time and raising money for a good cause at the same time. 

Art by Marty Schalm 




Month of events celebrate African-American history 
Black History Month activities include concerts, movies, lectures and exhibits 
By LIZ FORAN for more information), and Hallelujah Associate News Editor Night, sponsored by Campus Ministry. In addition to visiting choirs, this year's 
February marks the beginning of the Hallelujah Night will also include danc­celebration of Black History Month at ing, poetry reading and other artistic Notre Dame and throughout the nation. displays, according to Iris Outlaw, direc­This month-long recognition of African­tor of Multicultural Student Affairs. American history and culture will be A lecture series organized by Roland represented through activities and ser­Smith and David Hay of the Urban vices coordinated by various campus Institute for Community and Educational organizations. Initiatives begins this month and fea­
The activities for the month are spon­tures speakers from across the nation sored by campus groups such as the speaking on racial segregation. African-American Student Association "Separate and Still Unequal: The (AASA), the National Association for the Persistence of Racial Segregation in Advancement of Colored People American Life" is a six part visiting (NAACP), the Black Cultural Arts scholars series marking Black History Festival (BCAF), Campus Ministry, and Month and the centennial of Plessy v. the Office of Multicultural Student Ferguson. The first lecture will be Affairs. Additional events have been February 19 at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh coordinated through the University. Library auditorium. 
The week begins with a movie spon­A collection of African textiles is cur­sored by BCAF, featuring "Higher rently on display in the rotunda of the 

The Observer/Mike Ruma Learning," on Friday at 6:30p.m. in 101 Administration Building depicting cui-
African tapestries hang beneath the dome in the Main Building as part of an art exhibit to DeBartolo. This is followed on Saturday 
kick off celebrations for Black History Month. with a kick-off rally (contact the AASA see HISTORY I page 4 
Friday, February 2, 1996

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Bring on the Geritol 
It's your worst fear, aside from falling down flat on your back on that infamous patch of ice out­side of O'Shag in full view of that potential SYR date you scammed for two­and-a-half hours at Bridget's Thursday night (my roommate did it just the other day and I know she's still nursing her ego). 
It happens slowly at first, but then you real­ize that it's inevitably happening and there's not a single darn thing you can do to stop it. Like it or not, you're turning into your par­ents. 
Do you find yourself checking to see whether or not your roommates are wearing gloves when they go outside? A jacket? Making sure you eat some sort of vegetable, at least at some point in the week? Using that same cliche that your father has used for as long as you can remember -the one that really bugs you? Are you listening to the hit songs of the 70s, 80s and 90s and liking them? And remembering when they were new releases? 
It's a nightmare. It starts in your 20s and can only get worse as age actually sets in. And if you think you have it bad, I have it much worse. I've already progressed far beyond the realization that I have become a twenty-something version of my mom. Sometime during high school, I turned into June Cleaver (as mom's affectionately dubbed by friends at home). 
Now, less than a decade later, I'm turning 
into my grandmother (whose name, coinci­
dentally, really is June). Bless her vitamin­
enriched soul, I find myself setting clocks 
ahead and living in the same time warp that 
she does. I'm starting to like spinach. And I 
wasn't kidding about the vitamins. In fact, I 
swear by them. 
So what's the big deal about premature 
aging? I think it might be a sign that one day, 
all too soon, you'll be out there in the real 
world -heaven and all the saints forbid. I 
spent some time in real world land over break 
and I didn't enjoy it one bit. 
The worst part is hearing your favorite col­
lege hits tucked between Barbra Streisand's 
"Memories" and Elton John's "Nikita" on the 
MUSAK. I keep telling myself that I don't 
want an office job. I just want to stay at home 
arid listen to songs with words. 
I think there's still hope. Not only do I still 
enjoy lyrics in my songs, I like turning the vol­
ume ALL THE WAY UP. Acting like an adult 
too soon stunts the growth of your inner child, 
someone you need even when you can official­
ly be labeled "geriatric" and qualify for senior 
discounts at the movies. As you work towards 
that scary future, if you don't let yourself have 
fun and play hard, you'll miss everything. 
After hearing a moving orchestral rendition 
of U2's "I Still Haven't Found What I'm 
Looking For," I'm left still looking for the 
words. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

• TOOAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Jamie Heisler Brian Blank Jason Dorwart Production Sports Belle Bautista Tim Sherman Melissa DeRosa Jim Belden Brian Reinthaler 
Lab Tech Brandon Candura 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
-.......... ..l .... : .............................t ........... : ............ : .....J,. Th... nJ............... :....................J... ..... ,..r 
COLOMBO the rebels' stronghold in the north. Using everything from small shovels to Wednesday's bomb, which police huge earthmovers, soldiers and construc­50 km believe weighed 110 to 220 pounds, tion workers found 13 more bodies left a crater eight feet deep and Thursday in the scarred landscape of shattered windows of buildings hun­downtown Colombo, and the government dreds of yards away. The driver of vowed to "eliminate" the Tamil rebels it the truck was killed, but two others blamed for the attack. were arrested shortly afterwards. At least 73 people were killed and Investigators, interrogating those 1,400 injured Wednesday when a suicide suspects Thursday, were trying to squad rammed a truck packed with piece together the operation. explosives into Sri Lanka's central bank. Police said the truck left Monday The attack, one of the worst in Sri from Vavunia, a northern front-line Lanka's 12-year war with the rebels, town and took more than a day to ignited towering fires in the capital's reach Colombo, normally a five-hour business and tourist district. trip. Rescue teams dug into piles of rubble It parked overnight Tuesday in a with the determination of worker ants. Tamil neighborhood of Colombo, and Some used heavy machinery and some left Wednesday morning for the simple shovels, but all said they did not business district with explosives con­expect to find more survivors. cealed under bags of rice hulls. The attack came in desperation, said Police have identified the suspects President Chandrika Kumaratunga, who only as Ragu and Dharma Ruben claimed the Tamil Tiger rebels had suf­from the northern rebel-held town of ferred military setbacks and realized that Kilinochchi, and the dead driver as other Tamils backed her plan to decen­Raj. tralize and give them limited autonomy. Detectives raided a house in north­"This unfortunate incident has once ern Colombo they believe the again reminded us that the threat to Sri Lankan society bombers had used and arrested several other people by terrorism must be firmly dealt with," she said in a Thursday, but refused to identify them. statement. Terrorists "must be eliminated." Of the 1,400 civilians wounded -most of whom The separatists are fighting for a homeland in northern worked in the state bank ­1,000 remained hospitalized and eastern Sri Lanka, hundreds of miles away from and nearly 100 were listed in critical condition, sub­Colombo, a port city in the south. inspector Lal Gunawardene told The Associated Press. The Tamils say they are discriminated against by the Dozens of despairing relatives scanned lists of dead and majority Sinhalese, who control the government and the injured at the city's main hospital in Colombo, where military. More than 40,000 people have died in the war. heavily bandaged patients sat on gurneys in crowded In December, government troops captured Jaffna City, corridors.  
Clinton to Washington: End feuding Hundreds attend nuns' funeral WASHINGTON WATERVILLE, Maine The struggle between Democrats and Two nuns slain in their convent were remembered to­Republicans is "very· important and not day for their "joyfulness of spirit," and mourners were just political," but it ought to be carried urged to pray for the man who killed them. More than out with more humility, President 1,000 people including Gov. Angus King and Cardinal Clinton said Thursday. "We need to Bernard Law of Boston packed Notre Dame Church, just show the right attitude before those three blocks from the Servants of the Blessed Sacrament with whom we disagree, even when we convent where the attack took place Saturday night. feel wronged," Clinton told the 43rd Mother Superior Edna Mary Cardozo, 68, and Sister annual National Prayer Breakfast, Marie Julien Fortin, 67, were killed and two other nuns including politicians, judges, diplomats and soldiers. were injured when a man broke into the conVent. At With House Speaker Newt Gingrich listening on, Clinton least one of the nuns was bludgeoned with a statue of the said his disagreements with congressional Republicans Virgin Mary. The twin coffins were draped in ivory cloth, "have been part of the debate America must have as we a tall candle burning between them. "There was a joy­move into. a new era. " Indeed, Clinton said, private talks fulness that doubtless came from long hours of prayer. over balancing the federal budget were surprisingly ami­They were warm, loving people who did not deserve to cable. "We have to reach across these divisions," he said. die in this way," said the Rev. Anthony Schueller. Judge throws out rape evidence Buddhist monks arrested for fraud NEW YORK TOKYO A judge threw out evidence against an alleged rapist, Police on Thursday arrested six Buddhist monks ac­maintaining that the suspect's privacy was invaded be­cused of convincing ill or troubled people they were pos­cause his home was searched at night. In the ruling pub­sessed by evil spirits and then charging high fees to exor­lished today, acting Supreme Court Justice David Fried­cize the demons. The monks are members of the man was critical that the search of Melvin Gardner's Meikakuji temple group, which has taken in an estimated home was conducted after 9 p.m. "It is well established $113 million in exorcism fees in the past eight years, offi­that a nighttime intrusion into a private residence consti­cials said. Gishun Nishikawa, head of the temple group, tutes a severe invasiQn of privacy," Friedman said, in dis­was arrested with three monks in Tokyo, and two other qualifying a stick and blanket found in the suspect's suspects were arrested at temples in other prefectures. apartment the evening after the alleged rape. Fried­Nishikawa, 55, is suspected of running a nationwide man's ruling asserted that searches must be executed fraud ring in which temple employees would advertise a between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. The warrant said the search cure for sick and depressed visitors, especially targeting could be conducted "any time of the day," and the judge housewives, then tell them they were possessed and offer said, that didn't mean any time within the 24-hour day. their expensive remedy.  
• NATIONAL WEATHER Friday, Feb. 2 AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather~~~>torecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 2. Lines separate high temperature zones for the day.  

FRONTS: 
............... ......_..__ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ r.l\ 
H L B !§:1 [Til 0 ~ 8 ~ L....!. c........!. 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-SWRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VlaA.s.sociatedPrBSS 
Atlanta  34  32  Houston  27  22  New O~eans 36  32  
Cincinnati  14  3  Kansas City  -1  -t1  New York  24  20  
Chicago  4  -14  Los Angeles 65  52  Phoenix  68  48  
Denver  8  -19  Miami  82  70  Po~land  18  11  




_ 
Friday, February 2, 1996 
• RESIDENCE HALL ASSOCIATION 
Council maintains level of campus involvement 
By PAITI CARSON 
Saim Mary's EJiwr 
Things are running smoothly. 
Or so the current executive board members of the Resi­dence Hall Assoeiation (HHA) would say. 
Since the resignation of the former HilA executive board members last November 14, a new executive board has been elected and has taken office. Effective since December 4, the new board claims that the tran­sition has been smooth thus far. 
"We were fortunate enough to have walked into an active HilA," said current HHA presi­dent Paulette Haczkowski. "We accomplished a lot as the HilA in the fall and hope to continue to see progress in the spring." 
Under the new board, a few things have been changed or advanced and some have been added, according to Haczkowski. The athletic com­mittee has continued to work in order to combat poor atten­dance on the part of the Saint Mary's community at athletic events. 
Also, HilA will sponsor an all campus dance on Friday, Feb 
16. In addition to this event, HilA will sponsor Little Sibs Weekend, which seems to be supported this year, according to Haczkowski. 
As far as support from the administration is concerned, the current president feels that the lines of communication are open. 
"My executive board feels 
that our advisors have given the RHA a lot of support." Raczkowski said. "We haven't as of yet faced any major hur­dles. We're very optimistic as the administration seems to be." And the administration seems to agree. 
"HilA as an organization con­tinues to be a very viable, strong, and enthusiastic body," said Dr. Linda Timm, vice-pres­ident for academic affairs. "The new officers are moving forward with a full agenda and I look forward to a good contin­ued working relationship with them." 
But the former RHA execu­tive board members feel that there has been a change in atmosphere. especially on the part of the administration. 
"We've attended several RHA meetings since the new execu­tive board has been instated. We've noticed a change in atti­tude toward the executive board on the part of the advi­sors, as they realized they can no longer castigate student leaders without repercussions," said former executive board member Barbara VanDersarl. 
Other members of RHA seem to feel, however, that RHA con­tinues to be a very positive and supported organization. Chairwoman Karen Murphy has the "utmost confidence in the women running the organi­zation." 
In addition to an effective completion of old business and progress with new issues, 
see RHA I page 4 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Bag It! 
Jennifer Boatwright and Melissa Lenhart of Lewis Hall sell reusable Grab-n-Go bags at South Dining Hall yesterday during dinner. 

SMC dedicates senior residence 
By LESLIE FIELD 
News Writer 
Senior traditions continue to thrive as Annunciata Hall plans its dedication and open house to take place Sunday, February 
4. In its first year of senior liv­ing, Annunciata has proven very successful. Juniors have already voiced concerns about not drawing a lottery number low enough to obtain housing on the fourth floor of Holy Cross Hall. 
Annunciata President, Betsy Killian, is very pleased with both this year aqd what looks to be a successful future for the senior privileged fourth floor. As for the official celebration this Sunday, Killian says, "It is exciting for me to see that some of the hatd work has paid off and people want to be up here. It's nice for people to want to be active." 
Invitations were extended to each Saint Mary's student in her mail box as well as to each faculty member and adminis­trator. The Seniors of Annun­ciata expect a good turn out. 
Sunday's festivities will kick off with a welcoming from Saint Mary's President, Dr. William Hickey. Following will be a ceremony and dedication. At that time, those attending will be the first to see a plaque and picture of Mother Annunciata. 
Mother M. Annunciata Mc­Sheffery was Directress of the Academy of Saint Mary's in 1872 and was later the Supe­rior General of the Sisters of the Holy Cross in 1892. When she died in 1900, the Students of Saint Mary's dedicated the issue of that year's Chimes in her memory. A copy of that issue will be available for peo­ple to see during the open house. 
The plaque which now hangs in Annunciata lounge reads a quote from Maurice Francis Egan. "She was a loyal friend, a wise counselor, and the very heart of truth dwelt in her." Of the many noble Sisters who have made Saint Mary's what it is today, the Senior Hall Council chose Annunciata for qualities like these; qualities which Saint Mary's was built on. 

fft r:fm'l f,.. t:ttl,f 
DrJmfnn '~ 
W: Um~ rr. r.r.U fj , fii fr. fj '~ w~ f lmtll,.. r.dJ 
r. • ' 
JJ()fiifrifl ~ H't fimn rn r..r.rr 
r. • ' 
JJ'lfiiH1fl!: rr-!: f· imf\ f ,.. r.;: rr 
fj . '
Jflmrnn ! H't lim~ f" .r.alf 
fJ nmffin'~ 
ff'r fim'l rn t:df 
r. • f 
,.~ nmtr..n ~ rc·~ flm'l cr. r.;;ff 1J nfii fII r; '~ rc ·~ rimr: f r. r.;:rr 
~ 
.. ..... r Dr;mrr.r;' . 
The New Number on Cam 

r--------,r--------,
: 99C ::$ 5.99: 
I~. II I 
I 8r~d u I I ·· .':;7 II large I I • '· II 1-Topping I I With an_y PIZZa II Thin or Hand Tossedl 1 or(fer. 11 p,· 1
I II IZZO I 
lid with other offers. Not valid with other offers. 
.J L .J
L -·------------­
Now ~tiring!., · 

~--~------­

r-· ----­
I 
r page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 2, 1996 
of the funds go to supporting 
the program's basketball team,
' OlyiDpics according to O'Leary. WoiDen History RHA
I "After South Bend held the 
r continued from page 1 continued from page 1 continued from page 1 continued from page 3
(Special Olympics) World r Games in '87, a lot of regular
That's what the Late Night In her fight for a loan, the ture and history from the 19th Murphy feels that there are
contributors had used a lot of
Olympics is all about. second woman realizes how and 20th centuries, according more factors that make the or­
their money on that, and the St. 
The annual Office of Recre­others rob her of her power. to Doug Bradley, assistant ganization continue to prosper.
Joe chapter was in dire need of 
ational Sports-sponsored sports Wanyanden pointed out the director of the Snite Museum. "The relations between RHA
funds, so it turned to ND for
extravaganza returns for its theme of awareness through­The exhibit consists of items and the Board of Governance 
tenth installment tonight, from support," she says. The pair out the film. from the Snite Museum collec­(BOG) are better now. The col­
have been partners ever since.
7 p.m. to 4 a.m., and as usual, Nmehielle, a graduate law tion and from two private laborative efforts of these two
Late Night Olympics contribu­
the proceeds from the event student and native of Nigeria, lenders, and will be on display organizations are inspiring,"
tions are among the largest the 
will be donated to the Saint criticized the film for its por­until Sunday. Other events this Murphy said. 
county chapter receives annu­
Joseph's County Special trayal of the relationship be­month include: Even the members of the for­
ally.
Olympics. tween men and women. "Yes, • Movie week, beginning mer RHA executive board
The fundraising connection
This year's edition includes women are dominated, but the with "Roots" on Monday night, agree that the transition has
helps draw students to the
18 events, a moonwalk, ice film refuses to recognize the at 8 p.m. every night from been somewhat smooth. 
event, said O'Leary. But its not
skating and a very special bas­good things that happen [in February 5-9 in room 106 "My opinion is that RHA is
the only reason they come. It's
ketball game. A team of Notre African society] between men O'Shaugnessy Hall. running well, but by learning
the way they raise the money,
Dame and Saint Mary's faculty and women." • NAACP Formal at 7 p.m. from our mistakes and continu­
she says. 
and staff will take on a team of "In the new post-colonial Saturday in the LaFortune ing towards our previous goals, 
"The best part of this is see­
Special Olympians at 9 p.m. state, the system is'dominated Ballroom. it could be running better,"
ing students come together to
Lou Holtz will serve as hon­by males which creates prob­• Malcolm X Memorial Ser­said former RHA president
raise money and have fun at
orary coach of the staff team, lems with the power struc­vice on February 21 (time to Tara Hooper.
the same time," she says. 
and Indiana basketball coach­ture," Dr. Walshe, government be announced). The current RHA members
For O'Leary the event is just
ing legend Marvin Wood will professor, commented, "The • "Sex, Race & Democracy" will hold office until the next 
one big recess.
coach the Olympians. subtle interaction [between lecture by Kathleen Neal RHA elections in the spring, ac­
"The later they stay the more
1996 promises to continue a men and women] of traditional Cleaver on February 25 at 7 cording to Raczkowski.
fun they seem to have. To see everybody reverting back to
pattern of growth for these society is lost and women's p.m. in Washington Hall. 
games, according to RecSports' 
voices are not easily heard." 

their childhood at 2 a.m., hav­
director Kara O'Leary. "We just keep getting bigger. ing a good time for a great "The problem is that theses ..------------------------.
themes appear in every cul­

cause, is terrific." 
We're using every available 
ture; the struggles may vary,"

Putting together all that funspace in the Joyce Center." 
Are you chrstchurching me? 
added Davis. 

takes a lot of work. There are
All this for an event that 
"But empowerment comes 

over 40 hall representatives to
started without a name. Sally 
from women working togeth­

organize teams and sign-upsDerengoski, one of the directors 
Gretchen is 21 !
er ... confronting the world

for the Olympics, and 75 to 100of RecSports, originally con­
together."

volunteers on Friday night. For a way to hold an all-night, all­
ceived the idea ten years ago as 
the first time, a 12-student 
"This is a complex film that

steering committee helped de­campus party in the same style 
deals with the power of women 

velop ideas for this year's pro­
as her alma mater. Indiana 
-sexually, economically, and as

duction. Graphic Service's
University. Two years later, the 
the personality in the family.

Marty Schalm helped createevent adopted the name Late 
This power is contrasted with

this year's logo. Medals are do­Night Olympics and began its 
the obstacles that women

nated by the Notre Dameassociation with Special 
faced," explained Dr. Walshe. 

Alumni Association. 
Olympics. 
"Faces of Women," which

But O'Leary says the effort is Now the event includes nearly 
wonthe PRIX de la Critique In­

worth it. "It's really just a
1500 students from both Saint 
ternational at the 1985 Cannes

great atmosphere. Once some­Mary's and Notre Dame, dorm 
Film Festival, and the panel

body comes to one eyent, theyversus dorm competition and a 
discussion were sponsored by

get hooked," she says. 
lot of fundraising. In less than 
the African Students' Associa­

O'Leary encourages every toeight years of fundraising, Late 
tion, Gender Studies, and th·

show up even if they haven't
Night Olympics has donated 
Graduate Student Union. 

signed up for an event. "We County Special Olympics. Most 
over $25,000 to St. Joseph's 
won't turned anyone away," she says. 




Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
CR£AT \YALL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993! Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children 
~ 
THE r10RRIS INN 
Of NOTRE D411E 
NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
uBe A Sweetheart" 
Valentine's Day 
Dinner Specials /or two 
Wednesday, February 14 Dinner from 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Enjoy a dining experience in 
the true spirit o/ Notre Dame 
For reservations call 
631-2020 


~ '\. 


,W
Schedul_e for February 
domingo, 4 de febrero de 1996 
1:30 p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel* Padre Don McNeill, C.S.C. 
domingo, 11 de febrero de 1996 
1:30 
p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre David Scheidler, C.S.C. 

domingo, 18 de febrero de 1996 

1:30 
p.m. Stanford-Keenan Chapel Padre Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 

domingo, 25 de febrero de 1996 

1:30 
p.m. Stanford Keenan Chapel Padre Patrick Neary, C.S.C. 


Todos Estan Invitados 
*Please note time change. 
0MPUS 
MINISlRY 

~--------~----------~-------~ 
Friday, February 2, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 5 
• CAMPUS BRIEFS 
Word has been received of the death of Brian Schuster, as­sodate adjunet professor of Jaw at the University of Notre Dame Law School. Schuster died Sunday of natural causes. He was 43. 
Appointed to the Notre Dame faculty in 1987, Schuster taught a eourse in food, drug, and cos­metie law. 
Schuster was an attorney and international counsel for Zim­mer lne. of Warsaw, Ind.. after previously serving in a similar eapacity with Miles Ine. of Elkhart. lie was a member of the St. JOS(lph County and Indi­ana Bar 1\ssodations. 
A native of South Bend, Sehusttlr earned his bachelor's and law degrees from Indiana University in Bloomington and snrved as a law clerk for U.S. District Court Judge Robert Grant. 
A night filled with singing. danelng, and poetry will mark the third annual Hallelujah Night sponsored by Campus Ministry, on Saturday at 7 p.m. at Stepan Center. 
The evening will showcase the many talents and cultures that make up the Notre Dame student body. According to Gail Walton, director of music at the Sacred Heart Basilica, she hopes the festival will "show the variety of artistic endeavors at· Notre Dame." 
The evening will be com• pristld of throe dill'erent artistic outlets, dancing, singing, and poetry reading. Three dance clubs on campus will be repre­sented, the "Ballet Folklorico," a Hispanic Dance Club; the Hawaiian Club; and the Filipino American Student Organization. 
Five different choirs will sing, the Hispanic "Coro Prima Vera;" the predominantly African-American gospel choir, ''Voices of Faith;" the Notre Dame Women's Choir, the Notre Dame Folk Choir and the Notre Dame Uturgical Choir. 
In addition, four Notre Dame student.:; will read their own po· etry and the Notre Dame Mari­achi Band will perform. 
Admission is free. Donations from the festival will be given to food pantries in South Bend and Mishawaka. Campus Ministry requests that students donate non-perishable food items. 
.·~· :·.!:%~~ 

''Today's Life Choices," the University of Notre Dame's weekly television series on con· temporary social issues, has been honored in the interna­tional TV programming com­petition of the 1995 New York Festivals. 
The series received a finalist award in the social issues and current events category for an episode entitled "The World Summit for Social Development: Social Issues of Global Importance." The program highlighted efforts of partici· pants at the 1995 World Sum­mit for Social Development in Copenhagen to find ways to build international solidarity in eradicating worldwide poverty and unemployment. 
Now in its seventh season, "Today's Life Choices" airs on 65 PBS stations nationwide as well asthe Faith & Values net· work. The series has been hon­ored twice previously by the New York Festivals and also has been re-cognized for outstanding programming by the Council for the advancement and Support of Higher Education and the National Catholic Association for Broadcasters and Communieators. 
The championship match of Notre Dame's 1996 College Bowl tournament is scheduled for noon Saturday at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The final five matches li~ading up to the finale also will be con­tested that morning beginning at 9:30a.m. 
The winner will represent Notre Dame in the College Bowl regional tournament Feb. 23-25 at Bradley University in Peoria, Ill . 
Created in 1953, th(~ Colli~ge Bowl is the world's longest run­ning general knowledge quiz competition. Four-student teams from campuses nation­wide compete in a question­and-answer game that tests knowledge in a wide spectrum of subjects. 


Earn $$$ for Spring Break ~----~~February16~ 17~ 18 
Shifts still Available Sign ups are: Sat 213 10:00a.m.-4:00p.m. Mon-Fri 1128 10:00a.m.-4:00p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • Basement South Dining Hall 
631-5449/8792 
Are you gay or lesbian? Are you uncertain about your sexuality? 
You ore welcome ond you belong ot Notre Dome. 
Campus Ministry welcomes you and invites you to join with us and with each other 
come talk about your questions and concerns talking about your sexuality with family and friends ... your faith ... what's going right; what's going wrong 
all conversations confidential 
for more information.., please call 
Kate Barrett (l-5242) Fr. Bob Dowd.., CSC (l-7800/1-5056) Fr. Tom Gaughan.., CSC (1-6777) 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 
--~-~ -~ ---­

~-~~----~---­
Friday, February 2, 1996
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

GATE 3 FIELDHOUSE 

Saturday, Feb. 3rd -Saturday, Feb. 1Oth 
etJHte ~ dtJp e:u«t ~..(U(It ~ 
20o/o -60o/o off 
select merchandise 
7tdeu ~de~ /tn ~~~: 

Enter to win two (2) tree Men's Basketball vs. Seton Hall Feb.24, 1996
Notre oarne Football or 
Football vs. Ohio State

Basketball Tickets! 
Sept. 28, 1996 Football vs. Pittsburgh Nov. 16, 1996 

1-tte~~ta~ 15o/o off VARSITY SHOP regularly priced merchandise ---­GATE 3 FIELDHOUSE Cannot be used in conjunction with any other coupons or discount offers. Varsity Shop employees and their families are not eligible for this drawing. Varsity Shop Hours: Monday through Friday • 11 a.m. -5 p.m. I Sunday • 1 p.m. -4 p.m.  

t ---.. -.... -.. -----~ ---_---_.... --.......... -..........._. _•.• ••• .,. • 
Friday, Febrary 2, 1996 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Train derailment sparks fire, injuring 20 
By LARRY GERBER Associated Press 
CAJON SUMMIT, Calif. 
A freight train carrying haz­ardous chmnicals derailed and eaught lir11 early today, killing at least one erew membnr, in­JUring at least 20 other people and closing a major highway. 
The train's engineer was among the injured and one other erewman was missing after the Burlington Northern­
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • eled mountain pass as the rail ~""--~3>..___]L____~::o.___ 
_J 

Santa Fe Corp. train left the ed, burning wreckage shortly track shortly after 4 a.m. It before noon. His identity was touched off a spectacular fire not immediately released. that continued to burn intensely Most of the injured were po­at midday. lice officers and transporta­
"It's really ripping, really tion officials who complained burning," said Bill Peters, Cali­of chest pains, shortness of fornia Department of Forestry breath and skin rashes. spokesman. They were taken to several 
"We're not fighting it as of hospitals. The engineer was yet because of all the chemi­hospitalized in fair condition cals." with lacerations and an 
The dead crew member's injured back. body was pulled from the twist-A tunnel-shaped cloud formed over the heavily trav­


ARCHERY Mini -Course 
/"'
"'· 
• 
ca,rs burned, spitting flames AP 

• 
30 feet into the air. hundreds of feet high could be 

• 
The site, in the Cajon Pass, is seen when the train crashed. "I 

• 
a sparsely populated area was out there standing and felt about 15 miles north of San a rumble. I felt the heat of the Bernardino. fire," said the witness, Chuck 


One witness said a fireball Mydlowski. 
Thank you for 21 wonderful


• 
,Z?~~~ 
•••••••••••••••••••••••r••••••••••••• 
~ 
10% off

~i •Ecote Dresses •Anthropologie with Student
•BulldogJeans ·Free People
~THE 
I.D.

1912 S. 11th (U.S. 31133) .......,.____....1111111'
~STYLE 
2 'h miles north of state line 
Layaway& llelle Plaza, Niles
CO., INC. 
Alterations Available 
687-9123 
by 
Pau.l Rogat Loeb 
Tuesday, February 6, 1996 
7:30PM 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
For seven years, Paul Loeb visited over 100 campuses in 30 states to explore the beliefs, values and choices of today's students. He is the author of Generation at the Crossroads (1994). 
Generation at the Crossroads offers a fresh vievv of the choices confronting a nevv generation of Americans. Thought-provoking and inspiring, this vvork deserves the attention of every parent, teacher, and student vvho cares about the destiny of our democracy. 
-Keith Geiger, President, National Education Association 
Sponsored by the 
C e n t e r for Socia 1 Concerns in collaboration vvith: 
Tht.> Coll..:'ge of Arts and l.t.'ttt.'rs, College of Busin..:•ss 1\dlninistr<ltion, Cnllt.•gt.' of Engint.•et·ing. <.:~oll<-•gt.' of Scit>nce, The L<lW Schon!, School of /\n.·hitL•Ctl.ll''-'• DcJ.""lrttn(.•nt c,t· Accountancy, 1>'-"'J....,•'lrtnlE:."llt l..,f Arnc.:~.•·ic,,n Studies, Dt.........,.,rtnlt... nt c>f Antht·opology, I.Jt.•pat·ttnt.•nt of History, Dt>piH'tnH,•nt of Gov..:•rnnlL'nt .1nd In tt.'ITlil t ion,ll Stud i~·s, f)t.•p.l rtnlt>nt of Fi nilnce, f"Jt.•p.lr·tnH.•nt of Libt>r.11 Stud it.•s, Institute for Church Life, Can1pus Ministry, Studt.•nt Union Ro,H·d, Stud<.•nt (;ov(•rnn"lent, /\n1nesty Intt•rn,ltional, l-fabit.tl for I lurnanity, HU<..-;s, H.<.•cyclin' Irish, ,\IH.l Tht.• World 1-lungt.•r Co.llition 
years! You are our pride and joy. 
.4~ ~ alwaif4. ~.Vad.~. ad~ 
Delivery 
273-3890 
Lunch and Regular Hours 
• SECURITY BEAT MON., JAN. 29 
11 :34 a.m. Security responded to a two car accident on Juniper Road. There were minor Injuries reported. 
12:15 p.m. An off-campus student was transported by Security to the University Heallh Center for treatment of Injuries sustained during a fall. 
4:20 p.m. A Howard resident report· ed receiving a harassing telephone call. 
6:10p.m. A Pasquerllla East resi­dent reported receiving a harassing telephone call. 
TUES., JAN. 30 
7:10a.m. Security responded to a car/ pedestrian accident In the 916 parking lot. There were minor Injuries reported. 
2:01 p.m. A University employee reported receiving a harassing tele­phone call. 
WED., JAN. 31 
12:50 a.m. Security transported a Sorin Hall resident to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a tall. 
10:27 p.m. A Pasquerilla West resi­dent was transported by Security to the University Health Center for treatment of an Illness. 
Hours: 
'Till I AM Sun­Thurs 'Till 2 AM Fri and Sat Lunch 11-2 
EARLY WEEK SPECIAL 
2n 16" large pizzas with 2 toppings -$15.24 PLUS TAX I· 16,, large pizza with I topping and a free order of breadsticks -$6.67 PLUS TAX 
CALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATIONS 288-3320 

February 3 
$25 includes lift ticket, round trip bus fare and ski equipment. Bus leaves from Mishawaka Outpost Sports at 2 pm. 
3602 N. Grape Road 428 Baldwin Street Mishawaka, IN Elkhart,IN 
(219)259-1000 (219)262-4419 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 2, 1996 
THE FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF ALL FIRST ROUND GAMES 
Friday, February 2 

FOR ALL LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS. 7:00PM-4:00AM 
Joyce Center 

TIMES FOR FURTHER GAMES WILL BE DETERMINED 
631-6100

AT THE END OF THE FIRST ROUND. 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame AlumniAssociation 
Be a Real Champion-Support Special Olympics!!!-$1.00 Donation at the Door 

St. Ed's/Le Mans/Knott Stanford/P.W. 
Volleyball Team A 7:30 Table Top Pent. Team A N/A Volleyball Team A 7:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 9:00 TeamB N/A TeamB N/A TeamB N/A TeamB N/A Men's Basketball Team A 8:20 Men's Broomball 8:30 Men's Basketball Team A 8:40 Men's Broomball 9:00 
TeamB N/A Women's Broomball 8:00 TeamB 8:20 Women's Broomball 12:15 Women's Basketball Team A 8:00 Kickball Team A 10:00 Women's Basketball Team A 8:00 Kickball Team A 12:00 
TeamB 8:30 TeamB 9:20 TeamB N/A TeamB 9:40 Nerf Football Team A 8:30 Wiffieball Team A N/A Nerf Football Team A 12:45 Wiffieball Team A 9:00 TeamB 1:15 TeamB N/A TeamB 8:00 TeamB 8:30 
Target Golf Team A N/A Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 8:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 TeamB N/A Men's Soccer Team A 9:00 Team B 10:15 Men's Soccer TeamA 8:00 Women's Soccer Team A ll:OO TeamB N/A Women's Soccer Team A 11:30 TeamB ll:OO 
TeamB N/A lnnertube Water Polo Team A 8:00 TeamB ll:OO lnnertube Water Polo Team A 8:00 Ult. RecSports Chg. Team A ll:15 TeamB N/A Ult. RecSports Cbg. Team A 10:30 TeamB N/A TeamB N/A Kayaking 9:00 TeamB N/A Kayaking 9:15 
Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
GracefB.P./McCandless Alumni/Walsh/Holy Cross 
Volleyball Team A 8:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 9:00 Volleyball Team A 7:30 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:00 TeamB 8:00 TeamB 11:00 TeumB 8:30 Team B 10:30 Men's Basketball Team A 8:40 Men's Broomball 7:30 Men's Basketball Team A 8:40 Men's Broomball 12:15 
TeamB 8:00 Women's Broomball 8:30 Team B N/A Women's Broomball 8:30 Women's Basketball Team A 8:00 Kickball Team A 11:40 Women's Basketball Team A 8:30 Kickball Team A 9:40 TeamB 8:30 TeamB 10:20 TeamB N/A TeamB ll:20 Nerf Football Team A 10:45 Wiffieball Team A 7:30 Nerf Football Team A 11:30 Wiffieball Team A 7:45 TeamB 10:00 TeamB N/A TeamB 10:00 TeamB 7:15 
Target Golf Team A 8:45 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 8:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 TeamB 9:30 Men's Soccer Team A 8:30 TeamB N/A Men's Soccer Team A 11:00 
Women's Soccer Team A 8:00 TeamB 10:30 Women's Soccer Team A 10:30 TeamB 8:30 TeamB N/A Innertube Water Polo Team A 8:30 TeamB 9:00 Innertube Water Polo Team A 8:30 Ult. RecSports Cbg. Team A 10:45 TeamB N/A Ult. RecSports Chg. Team A ll:l5 TeamB N/A TeamB 10:00 Kayaking 9:30 TeamB N/A Kayaking 9:45 
Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Fisher/Regina/Pangborn Carroll/Lewis/Keenan 
Volleyball Team A 7:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:30 Volleyball Team A 7:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 9:30 TeamB N/A TeamB 9:30 TeamB 9:00 Team B N/A Men's Basketball Team A 9:00 Men's Broomball Men's Basketball Team A 9:00 Men's Broomball 7:30 TeamB N/A Women's Broomball 9:00 TeamB 8:00 Women's Broomball 7:30 
Women's Basketball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A N/A Women's Basketball Team A 8:00 Kickball Team A 10:40 TeamB N/A TeamB N/A TeamB N/A Team B 12:00 Nerf Football Team A 8:45 Wiffieball Team A 7:45 Nerf Football Team A 8"'5 Wiffieball Team A 8:00 TeamB 12:30 TeamB N/A TeamB 10:30 TeamB 7:00 
Target Golf Team A N/A Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 9:00 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 
Team B N/A Men's Soccer Team A 10:00 TeamB N/A Men's Soccer TeamA 9:30 Women's Soccer Team A 9:30 TeamB N/A Women's Soccer Team A 8:30 Team B N/A TeamB N/A Innertube Water Polo Team A N/A TeamB 9:30 lnnertube Water Polo TeamA N/A Ult. RecSports Cbg. Team A 10:15 TeamB N/A N/AUit. RecSports Chg. Team A 10:45 Team B N/A 
TeamB N/A Kayaking N/A TeamB N/A Kayaking 10:00 Men's Racquetball CALLI-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Sorin/Farley Dillon/Badin/Howard 
Volleyball Team A 9:00 Table Top Pent. Team A N/A Volleyball Team A 7:30 Table Top Pent. Team A 10:00 Team B 9:00 TeamB N/A TeamB 7:30 Team B N/A Men's Basketball Team A 8:00 Men's Broomball 8:00 Men's Basketball Team A 8:20 Men's Broomball 8:30 TeamB 9:00 Women's Broomball N/A TeamB 8:40 Women's Broombal 7:301 Women's Basketball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A 9:20 Women's Basketball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A 11:00 TeamB 9:00 TeamB 10:40 TeamB 9:00 Team B 10:20 Nerf Football Team A 8:45 Wiffieball Team A 7:15 Nerf Football Team A 8:15 Wiffieball Team A 7:00 TeamB ll:30 TeamB 8:15 TeamB 1:15 Team B N/A 
Target Golf Team A 8:15 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 8:15 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 
TeamB 9:00 Men's Soccer Team A 10:30 TeamB N/A Men's Soccer TeamA 9:30 Women's Soccer Team A N/A Team B 8:00 Women's Soccer Team A 10:30 Team B N/A TeamB N/A Innertube Water Polo Team A N/A TeamB 9:00 lnnertube Water Polo TeamA N/A Ult. RecSports Chg. Team A N/A TeamB N/A Ult. RecSports Chg. Team A 10:15 Team B N/A TeamB N/A Kayaking 10:15 TeamB N/A Kayaking N/A 
Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Morrissey/Lyons Flanner/Siegfried/P.E. 
Volleyball Team A 7;00 Table Top Pent. Team A 11:00 Volleyball Team A 8:00 Table Top Pent. Team A 12:00 TeamB 8:00 TeamB N/A Team B 8:30 TeamB N/A 
Men's Basketball Team A 8:20 Men's Broomball 9:00 Men'.' Basketball Team A 8:00 Men's Broomball 12:45 Team B N/A Women's Broomball 8:00 Team B 9:00 Women's Broomball 12:45 Women's Basketball Team A 9:15 Kickball Team A 9:00 Women's Basketball Team A 8:15 Kickball Team A ll:OO 
TeamB N/A TeamB 11:20 TeamB 9:00 TeamB 9:00 Nerf Football Team A 1:00 Wiffieball Team A 7:30 Nerf Football Team A 8:00 Wiffieball Team A 8:00 Team B 8:30 TeamB N/A TeamB 12:30 TeamB N/A 
Target Golf Team A 8:30 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Target Golf Team A 9:45 Monster Dodgeball 12:00 Team B N/A Men's Soccer Team A 9:00 TeamB 8:45 Men's Soccer Team A 10:00 
Women's Soccer Team A 8:30 TeamB 11:30 Women's Soccer Team A 10:00 TeamB N/A Team B 10:00 lnnertube Water Polo Team A N/A TeamB 8:00 lnnertube Water Polo Team A 9:30 Ult. RecSports Chg. Team A N/A TeamB N/A Ult. RecSports Chg. Team A 10:30 TeamB N/A 
TeamB N/A Kayaking N/A TeamB 12:00 Kayaking 10:30 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Zahm/Cavanaugh

Volleyball Team A 9:00 Table Top Pent. TeamA N/A TeamB N/A Team B N/A Target Golf Team A 8:30 Monster Dodgeball N/A Men's Basketball Team A N/A Men's Broomball 8:00 TeamB N/A Men's Soccer Team A 11:30 
TeamB N/A Women's Broomball 9:00 Women's Soccer Team A N/A Team B N/A Women's Basketball Team A 8:30 Kickball Team A N/A TeamB N/A lnnertube Water Polo TeamA 9:00 TeamB N/A TeamB N/A Ult. RecSports Chg. Team A 10:00 Team B N/A 
Nerf Football Team A 10:15 Wiffieball Team A 8:30 TeamB N/A Kayaking N/A Team B 8:45 TeamB N/A Men's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 Women's Racquetball CALL 1-6100 
Special Olyn1pians v. ND/SMC Faculty & Staff Basketball Gan1e 
9:00PM Fieldhouse-Joyce Center 
Special Olynzpians Head Coach: Marvin Wood ND!SMC Staff & Faculty Head Coach: Lou Holtz 

Friday, February 2, 1996 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• ITALY • RussiA 
Appointment of premier leads reforms 
By FRANCF.5 D'EMILIO 
Associated Press 
HOME 
After weeks of wrangling, a longtime bumaucrat seen as po­litically neutral was chosen Thursday to try to form a new government with the primary goal of fashioning a more stable political system for Italy. 
l'rflsident Oscar Luigi Scalfaro announced he had chosen An­tonio Maccanico to be the next premier. The announcement came after both the left and the right seemed to be near an agreement on what kind of changes the next government should work for. 
If he is approved by Parlia­ment, Maccanico will lead Italy's 55th postwar government, suc­ceeding Lamberto Dini, himself 
SEXUALITY AT NOTRE DAME 
A Discussion led by Fr. Steve Newton, CSC Sunday at 1:30 in the Log Chapel 
Coal miners strike could bring chaos 
By ALEX AMERKUSHEV 
Associated Press 
NOVOKUZNETSK 
More than a million Hussian and Ukrainian coal miners went on strike Thursday in a wave of anger that could lead to budgetary chaos and affect Hussia's presidential election campaign. 
From Ukraine's coal-rich Donbass region to eastern Siberia, miners were demand­ing hundreds of millions of dol­lars in unpaid wages and protesting government neglect of state-owned mines. 
"We'll make them respect us and teach them a lesson," Ivan Mokhnachuk, deputy head of Hussia's Union of Coal Industry Workers, said in Moscow.The walkout comes in the dead of winter in countries heavily reliant on coal. 
In eastern Siberia, coal is the only energy source, and some regions have only about a week's reserves. 
In many areas, however, Hussia has other energy sources. Gas and oil are both used far more than coal in Hussia, and with the use of gas on the rise, it would be the ap­parent fallback if the strike stretches on. 
The strike's immediate im­pact is expected to be political. 
Coal mining is still a state­owned industry in both of the former Soviet republics. Work­ers in other cash-starved state sectors also are angry, and say they have lost faith in govern­ment promises to address the problems of unpaid wages and payments to industry. 
"The miners could start a chain reaction that would bring about an emergency situ­ation," said Alexander Zhukov, a moderate lawmaker and deputy chairman of the budget committee in Hussia's lower house of parliament. 


a non-aligned figure named ear­lier by Scalfaro to promote cost­cutting reforms. 
Since Dini resigned on Jan. 11, party leaders had been ar­guing about what reforms Italy needs. Talk about overhauling Italy's political system, which features a weak presidency and fosters party splintering, has been heard for years. 
Maccanico, 71, had served as the top bureaucrat in the offices of the president and premier and also as chairman of Mediobanca, an investment bank that is one of Italy's strongest powerbrokers. 
Maccanico told reporters he hoped parliament would give him "solid, serious, broad" sup­port to pass constitutional reforms and help improve the economy. 


-~---~---------~----------~~~--­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 2, 1996 

,. 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in~Chief 
John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
News Editor ................................ David Tyler Advertising Manager ........................... John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ......................)en Mackowiak Sports Editor............................. Mike Norbut Production Manager .................. Jacqueline Moser Accent Editor ......................... Krista Nannery Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pete Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objecrively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in~Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Cornmcmarics, letters and lnside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and ro all readers. Th(' free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in~Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631~5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631 ~4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631--4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631--4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5:103 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• CAPITOL COMMtMTS 
State of the Union: A sad state of affairs 

Gary Caruso 
President Clinton delivered a good State of the Union speech with style ... that is, until Senator Dole pre­sented the Republican response. After Dole's appearance, Clinton's picture perfect performance showed why Dole has serious trouble matching up with Clinton. Clinton demonstrated insight and compassion by setting an agenda in the center of the political spectrum. He had a smoother, more presidential deliv­ery, and touched on issues of interest to a majority of Americans. 
Dole physically looked like the Grinch who stole Christmas. His delivery was unemotional, and his content was shal­low and mean spirited. Contrasted with Clinton's conciliatory "let's work togeth­er" theme, Dole's use of harsh Gingrich­like phrases such as "fantasy budget," "Big Brother" and "elitist views" only revived the old Dole image of a political hack. And what was all that "tuck your kid in bed tonight" rhetoric supposed to accomplish? High school class elections promising more pizza at lun.ch and dances after sporting events have con­tained more insight and content than Dole's address. 
Dole's performance was a total disas­ter. Not only did he look worse than Clinton, his delivery was bad and he di­rected his comments toward those who will vote in the Republican primaries rather than to independent Americans. Dole's comment that he would "refuse to bend or yield" as a matter of conviction was clearly an attempt to say to Republicans across the country, ''I'm really a conservative, not a compro­miser." Yet polls have shown a majority of Americans thought Dole was the most reasonable of the three leaders in the budget negotiations. . 
It. is amusing to hear Dole say that our system has been "hijacked by liberals," accusing liberal judges Clinton appoint­ed as a reason for crime. Ronald Reagan and George Bush appointed more than two-thirds of the currently sitting feder­al judges. Dole also needs a wake up call on the deficit. It tripled under Reagan and Bush, partly with the support of a Republican-controlled Senate and a con­servative Democrat coalition with Republicans in the House. How soon we forget that Reagan got every budgetary request during his infamous "trickle down" first term in office before he was forced to slightly compromise during his second term. 
Bill Clinton moved to the middle by using Republican themes mixed with Democratic ideals. He emphasized that the government had 200,000 less work­ers since he took office. He noted that the last major environmental accomplishments occurred when Richard Nixon worked with a Democratic Congress. Clinton praised Dole and all veterans for their service to our country. Showing that Congress was insensitive towards federal workers, Clinton honored a Social Security employee, Richard Dean, for his "extra­ordinary personal heroism" during the Oklahoma City bombing. Then Clinton reviewed Dean's past two months of fur­loughs without pay due to the govern­ment shutdown. 
Clinton took the popular issues of both parties and made them his own. He sounded reasonable by calling for "the era of working together." Clinton was as good as Reagan in communicating his agenda and achieving support for him­self. Immediately following the speech, two television networks conducted sur­veys. Both had Clinton's personal ap­proval ratings above 50 percent, ap­proval of his budget priorities with blame for the gridlock on the Republicans above 60 percent, and dis­

• DOONESBIJRY 
IA/EU, IT'5 NOT£A% KJ//5/ 
OFT&N I HAVe 70 FfJ'3C 
L-IKE THIS A6AIN5TA PLAIN 
8Aa<JJROP. TH&/11 A 8Uf38L& MAOIINC./5 7Vt<NWON... 
" 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
LA7ER., A FOR£6ROUND'MATT£" 
PAINTING OF!Y7& IS CR&ATw. IN TH& FINAL-lWN, 7H£ TWO 
IMA6E!3 .AR& COM/3/NW... 

satisfaction with current conditions compared to four years ago at only 19 percent. In one evening, the President rose above the budget battle and rallied his party. 
Some may argue that Clinton was all talk and no substance. Talk usually dominates over substance in a state of the union message. The differences in political philosophies between the two parties are great-one believes in work­ers and government while the other believes in business as the driving force in our society. The fact remains, Bill Clinton acted presidential, sounded presidential and greatly contrasted with Bob Dole. If that one evening is any indi­cation of the upcoming campaign, a ma­jority of Americans will shed party philosophies in search of a leader. In light of his recent public address, Clinton can count on four more years. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House of Representatives for eighteen years and is now a publicist with the International Union of Electronics Workers (IUE) in Washington. D. C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is hottline@aol. com. 
• Quon Of THE DAY 
"Agreat man represents a 
great ganglion in the nerves of society, or, to vary the figure, a strategic point in the campaign of history, and part of his greatness consists in his being there." 
-Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. 

VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 2, 1996 
page 11 

• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dear E<litor: 
As a person associated with Peacenet I would like to com­ment on Brandon Williams' col­umn of Nov. I 0. "Christianity and military do cm~xist." 
Frank Carver, '44, the man who walked 250 miles to Notre Dame to talk to Father Malloy about a university chair in non­violenee, is a sineere Catholic who rllfusns to modify Christ's mtlssagn of "lovn one another". 
llalf a eentury ago Senator Jo11 MeCarlhy and others ac­eused loyal American eitizens of !wing traitors. lie used lies and innunndo to destroy his politieal "nnemies", but in the end lw was discredited and censored by the Senate. A eou­ple of wtwks ago the head of the F.B.I. said that during the cold war the threat of Communism was greatly exag­gentted. That message is 40 years late, but many Americans had rnaliznd it for years before. 
I have a low regard for colo­nialism -why wouldn't I? My people eame from Ireland about a hundred and fifty years ago. Tlw Irish fought British colonialism for 800 years, and are still at it. Americans fought against British colonialism over two hundred years ago. After World War II we saw France attempt to re-establish her colonies in Indo-China. Why did we come to the aid of France with money and military assis­tance? We helped a coloni&l power and its wealthy Vietnamese allies to fight against the majority of Vietnamese, who demanded land reform and would not tol­erate colonialism. These Vietnamese have ancestors who resisted Chinese domination for a thousand years. A couple of months ago Robert McNamara appearnd on TV to discuss his book "In Hetrospect". Now he tolls us our policy in Vietnam was terribly, terribly wrong. And he was one of the main framers of that policy. lie said that even though he knew it was wrong at the time he wouldn't say so "out of loyalty to the President." During that ten year blunder 58,000 Amerieans and probably two million Southeast Asians were killed. The silent majority chose to· be non-controversial and so as citizens became almost non­functional. 
Does the presence of ROTC compromise Notre Dame's abil­ity to criticize our government's policies? If there is a valid need for ROTC, then perhaps there is also a valid need for non-vio­lence. I'd like to hear what Frank Carver has to say, and also Father Malloy's thoughts and decisions in this matter. 
"Every gun that is made, ev­ery warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies, in the final sense, a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, thpse who are cold and are not clothed. This world in arms is not spending money alone; it is spending the sweat of its labor­ers, the genius of its scientists, the hopes of its children," said Dwight D. Eisenhower. 
Best wishes to all the profes­sqrs and students at my fa­vorite university. 
CHARLES WATERS Class of'49 
Students stand for life 
Dear Editor: 
Our sincere and everlasting thanks to all the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students who so kindly gave up their seats at the Mass for Life at the Shrine of the Immaculate Conception in Washington, D.C., Jan. 21, 1996, 
The ladies to whom you gave your seats were all members of the National Council of Catholic Women who were attending its National Board Meeting at the Washington Retreat House, just up the road from the shrine. 
As the Province Director for the Indianapolis Province, which includes the whole state of Indiana, I was exceedingly proud of all of you. 
It was a tremendous occasion and we thank you all for making the extra effort away from your studies to attend the Mass for Life and the March for Life. 
May God continue to bless you. 
ARLENE QUIGLEY 
Province Director 
National Council ofCatholic Women 
Come out, 
Virginia... 
Dear Editor; 
My back aches from the violent beating my spinal cord underwent as, out of shame, I sank low into my seat at the Billy Joel lecture Jan.30. I wanted to jump up and scream in defense of my college and gender as a t'ellow studont, In 15 seconds, managed to destroy every value that the Saint Mary's women have striven for over the past 151 years. 
I truly appreciate tho opportunities shared by the University of Notre Dame. Without the help of an institution of such cal­iber, I would not have been able to participate in lectures such as Billy Joel's and Oliver Stone's. I bolieve that a gHsture like opening an event to another group is an act ot' respect. For this sharing and respect, I am thankful. 
Wha~ caused me shame and embarrassment Tuesday night was an outright misuse of respect. Labeling a number one ranked college as "the girls' school across the street" is a bla­tant act of disrespect to the students, faculty, staff and alum­nae of our college. 
My complaint lies not with the University of Notre Dame~ although my heart did wince when some members of the audi· enc~ "booed" at the mention of Saint Mary's College, but rather, I speak out to the student herself and any other student who did not find fault whh the manner in which she tadlessly addressed Joel. 
As students of Saint Mary's College, and as women who have· worked incredibly hard to gain respect and recognition t'rom others, don't we deserve that same respect from ourselves? It is time that we realize our full potential and identify ourselves as strong women who understand the power of higher educa­tion. 
To those who also lowered their eyes and felt powerless Tuesday night. you are not alone. To those students of Notre Dame whose negative attitudes towards Saint Mary's were reinforced • do not be fooled by one thoughtless individual. · To those Notre Dame students who felt themselves swayed towards the postion that Saint Mary's does live up to the nega­tive stereotypes -do not be so weak to let one incident ehange your mind. And finally, to the faculty and staff who have worked so diligently to cultivate strength, confidence and inde­pendence in the women of Saint Mary's , do not lose heart, rather, use this incident as a teaching tool a.nd learning experi­ence for discussion and growth. 
ANGElA CATALDO Junior Le Mans Hall 

• r.ioo 'N LIFE 
No risk, no pain, no fear • • • no problem 
No f1111r. Though the statistics may not be rnadily available, it might be interest­ing to lind out how many -if any -peo­pl«l over age 35 wear clothes bearing this logo. This willingness to take «lxtrnmn risks seems a trait of the young«lr set that somehow fades with limn. 
Still, a hit of' fear is good. Fear keeps us from ;u~ting foolishly. No one would walk through a pit of rattlesmtkes bare­footnd. or deliberately cross the Toll Hoad in lwavy traffic. Even in the Old Testanwnt the prophets wrote about "fHar of the Lord". The Israelites knew there were cnrtain things they should not do, because they would put their eternal reward in jeopardy. 
Today, we've pretty much broken away from the mentality that "God'll get you" if you sin. The fact does remain that eertain "sins"-murder, adultery, racism and hatred-do more than put lit­tle black marks on a person's soul. They harm all humanity, a humanity that is steadily losing hope in the "now" and the future. 
Julie Ferraro 
So, do we all become "goody-two­shoes" in order to reverse the ravages of sin on the world? Even that prospect seems bleak, because no one is perfect. No one wants to be singled out, or made fun of, for trying to be "good". Few really want to be a "good example" for others. Many just want to blend in, live quietly and not disturb anyone. 
Think about what the world would be like if Martin Luther King, Jr. just "blended in". Or Mother Teresa of Calcutta. Or John Paul II. Sure, some people disagree with what they've done, but how many people have they also inspired to take a look at their individual lives and make a change for the better? 
Consider how many teachers we have known. And not only in the classroom. A teacher's goal is to "touch just one life", to spark one mind on to greater things. All of us should adopt the same goal, and not just during our time at Notre Dame. We should not be afraid to set an example for others by living a life worthy of scrutiny and imitation. 
Whether we abide by the Golden Hule or other equally laudable tenets, we have the opportunity to make the world a better place starting in "our own little corner". 
Have no fear that others may point lingers or critidze, be it because a per­son deddes not to drink or to volunteer for one of the Center for Social Concerns' projects. or do other things to help bring humanity baek from the brink of despair. Sueh disapproval isn't worth the pain and maybe, just maybe, these critics will see what is happening and learn from it. Never stop trying, no matter how fruitless the effort might ap­pear, or how strong the opposition sounds. 
In this, there can be no fear. 
Julie Ferraro is a secretary in the Freimann Life Science Center. 

page 12 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
What •1s your favorite cartoon? 

"Gummy Bears." 
Theresa Sullivan Sophomore, Siegfried 
"The Road Runner. He always pummels Coyote into the ground." 

Jack Walser Senior, Fisher 

"Scooby-Doo" 
Sunday Patterson Sophomore, Lyons 
"Animaniacs. I like their songs." 
Evelyn Ortiz Senior, Walsh 


"Thundar the Barbarian was awesome." 
David Guzman Senior, Fisher 
"The Smurfs." 
Sean Neugebauer Freshman, Sarin 

ACCENT 
Friday, February 2, 1996 
Cartoon-Fever 
The Evolution of Animation 
BY KRISTEN DOYLE 
Accent Writer 
I
n what other genre but animation can you find audiences consistently returning 
to the classics while remain heartily 
devoted to transient trends? 
The history of animation can not be cate­gorized as a fluid progression of an entertainment medium, but rather a collec­tion breakthroughs and conflicts of a .broad-based art form. The very first ani­mated film was only two minutes long and was drawn on rice paper with India ink. Primitive by modern standards (it was silent and black and white), "Fantasmagorie" by Frenchman Emile Cohl was nevertheless a European success. 
The magic of animation did not catch the 
interest of American audiences until news­
paper comic and editorial cartoonist Winsor 
McCay came on the scene shortly after, in 
New York. It was jump-started with his 
invention of "flippers" included in the 
Sunday edition of the New York American. 
Static illustrations mysteriously came to life 
with the simple flip of a pad of paper. The 
flippers were so popular that McCay put 
together a Vaudeville show which included 
his first animated film, "Little Nemo in 
Slumberland" (1905), in which· he modeled 
the characters of Little Nemo and the beau­
tiful princess after his son and daughter. 
The show was a smash hit, but "Gertie 
the Dinosaur" (1914) is regarded as his 
greatest achievement. McCay even timed 
her breathing to match his own. He incor­
porated his animated film into his 
live act by engaging in conversa­
tion with the child-like dinosaur, a 
precursor to the live action-ani­
mation combination in "Who 
Framed Roger Rabbit?'' 
McCay developed anima­
tion as an art form while 
many of his contempo­raries took it in the direc­·tion of commodity. John Randolph Bray, dubbed "the Henry Ford of anima­tion," is credited with 
opening the first animation 
factory in which a team 
of animators feverishly 
worked to produce sec­
ond rate film shorts in 
large volumes. Bray's low-budget, high­
return brand of cartooning soon grew stale 
and was characterized by a pre-production 
lack of organization. 
The proliferation of this method led to 
McCay's retirement in the 1920s. At a testi­
monial dinner in 1927, McCay stated curt­
ly, "Animation should be an art, that is how I conceived it... but as I see it, what you 
fellows have done with it is making it into a trade... bad luck." As the novelty of anima­tion wore off, audiences realized that they just were not very funny. 
It is hard to imagine that the production of characters like Dinky Doodle, Bobby Bumps and Felix the Cat could be anything but a barrel of laughs but early studio ani­mation was a cutthroat business, particu­larly in the area of technology. Producers like Bray and Raoul Barre competed sav­agely for the patents on production tech­niques like the "slash" system. In this sys­tem, drastically reducing production time, a given scene's background would need to be drawn only once while the moving charac­ters were drawn on a clear cel­luloid overlay. 
In 1917, the Bray studio re­leased the first film to employ the aesthetically significant "rubber hose" technique. Character's limbs were depicted like lengths of flexible tubing instead of bending stiffiy. 
With the Disney Era (1928-1941) came the Golden Age of animation marked by an abandonment of the factory system and a sacrifice of money for excellence. Disney's critical acclaim and commercial success soon gave rise to an industry highlighted by wide revamping and diversification of techniques and for­mats. The use of storyboards and more creative scripts and gags improved the 
quality of the storylines. Silly Symphonies (music-oriented fantasies) like "The Skeleton Dance" (1929) emerged as an unprecedented variation. 
Mickey Mouse, perhaps the most recog­nizable cartoon character, has a develop­ment history all his own. Conceived by Walt himself in 1927, Mickey was originally named Mortimer and depicted as a mischie­vous and slightly maniac mouse based on Chaplain's Little Tramp. 
In 1931, there were one million members of the Mickey Mouse Club, among them Franklin Roosevelt and Benito Mussolini. After 1935, Mickey's character softened into a harmless Mr. Nice Guy, color picture was added and a am of uniquely charming allies 
for our hero (including Pluto, Goofy, and Donald Duck) were written into new scripts. 
The incorporation of the television as a member of the American family in the 1950s provided a new, but not altogether beneficial, outlet for cartoon art. In feature film form, the cartoon had been viewed as suitable entertainment for all audiences. Early on, quality programs like the very depicted 

ship by p 
Animation 
explains 
ment: "AB 
Warner B 
Show'. 
suddenly 
excised. 
entertain 
ignored. 
of the 
films 
The 1 with shows sponsible for Hogan's Rock ture length Disney's paved the high water Story." 
What is in~ tion? Audien sniffie due to , per and pen a1 arrangement 1 artist. Elaboi found in War prevail conten demographic industry. 


ACCENT
Friday, February 2, 1996 page 13 
trikes Notre Dame and SMC 


\ 
lirst cartoon made for televi­sion. "Crusader Habbit," were presented during prime time and generated the same reputation. llowever, the intro­duction of Saturday morning cartoons in the sixties shifted the target audi­ence almost exclusively to children. Television studios found that u cartoons c o n ­tinued to 
attract young view­ers even if their artistic\ quality waned and employed the same generic 
storylines over and over. Cartoons that nee were targeted for censor­
istorian Charles Solomon !ITect of the censorship move-bowdlerizing the classic artoon 'The Bugs Bunny falls and explosions were lied as pernicious and were fact that the... gags had audiences for decades was 
. 
r was tIw aestIHlltc excellence Itaken mto . eonsi d ~~ration. The
sually and dumsily eensornd... h 
1 1
lfl!,u,g t ~ s ig ~~ imp.rovement
e 1he Smurfs but 1s also re-
its share of duds like "Hulk 
and Wrestling." The first fea­
computer animated film, 
n, .. was a box office flop but 
for animation's most recent 
ark, the blockbuster "Toy 
tore for the future of anima­CllS will no longer giggle and he painstaking work of a pa­tist but rather by the creative Jf coordinates by a computer ate intertextuality like that er Bros' "Animaniacs" will t-wise and a broader viewing will raise the quality of the 
My Life in a Cartoon World 
ychologists and parents. 1--------------------------------------------------------l 

Webster 
delines cartoons
HE SAYS• • • as being draw­
ings caricatur­ing a person or event. Cartoons, for me, were the staple of my adolescence. 
I watched them all. from "Johnny Quest" to the "Loony Toon Adventures" to "The Jetsons," I thrived on cartoons. "Tom and Jerry," "Speed Hacer," and even "Fat Albert" could not escape the wraith of a young child armed only with a remote control in one hand and a peanut butter and jelly sandwich (with the crust cut om in the other. 
Without these and a flock of other car­toons, I probably would not be the person that I am today. Not only did they represent an escape from the rigors and monotony of pre-school, they were really quite entertain­ing. They teach sensitivity and creativity. They can take the viewer to far-off places that can only be found in the imagination. Many cartoons depict the epic struggle be­tween good and evil, a battle in which good almost always inevitably wins. 
As I grew up, I watched the evolution of cartoons. The fairly simple drawings, of bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck, transformed into the more complicated, if not more vio­lent animation of the Transformers, He-Man, and G.l. Joe. Ironically, these shows, which were plagued with senseless violence, often tried to be politically correct by offering some moral. "G.l. Joe" rationalized its vio­lence with the familiar phrase, "And know­ing is half the battle." 
And then we have the Disney cartoons. On the surface, these movies appear harmless and family oriented, but deep down they hold a much crueler message: the mortality of life. There must be a better way to con­vey this scarring message; I. mean, I still haven't gotten over the fact that Bambi's mother died. 
Cartoons continued to grow more complex as I journeyed into my teens. First there were the Simpsons and Ren and Stimpey. From them spawned the idiocrasy of Beavis and Butthead. This obnoxious duo has man­aged to take over the minds of a countless number of adolescents, who rave around the malls of America, heckling, "Fire, fire ... " and "I need tepee for my bunghole." During this time, Japanimation was introduced to me. A visual collage of sex, drugs, violence and, yes, cartoons. 
Eventually when I went to college, my interest in cartoons slowly faded away due to time constraints and the lack of cable TV. Recently though, my interest in cartoons has been rekindled by one of my roommates who wakes up at the crack of dawn on Saturday morning, no matter how late he stayed up the night before, to watch cartoons. 
One Saturday morning, I wandered into the living room to find my roommate, sitting touched the screen, laughing hysterically at a giant, blue, dim-witted superhero crea­ture. It was really quite an odd spectacle; nevertheless the show was funny and clever. "The Tick," my roommate informed me, is one of his favorite shows on TV. 
Following 'The Tick" is another one of his favorites, "X-Men." "X-Men" fascinated me even more. The art, the scenery, the char­acters, and even the plot are well developed and are aesthetically pleasing. It is full of action, yet offers a commentary on our soci­ety, how human is human. 
Now, I wake up, no matter how much my head hurts to watch these two shows. But these two shows just aren't enough any­more. I have become addicted again. I watch cartoons at all hours, anytime, what­ever is on. I find myself being sucked back into the realm of prepubescence, back into the world of the imagination. 
by Joey Crawford Assistant Accent Editor 

Snap, Crackle, and Pop, the schizophrenic, hyperactive Cocoa PuffsSHE SAYS Jem. Now she was "truly out-bird who cannot calmly consume one bowl of cereal, and the sad 
• • • rageous." She was the epitome of case of Tony the Tiger. Tony feels he must constantly prove himself eighties cool with her own band, a to the world-he's always showing 'em he's a tiger, showing 'em talking machine that dressed her in what he can do. Sure, the taste of Tony's Frosted Flakes brings out 
tight vinyl pink-and-lavender clothes, and a secret identity. the tiger in him, but at what cost? 
She had a boyfriend, too-one of those vacuum-for-a-personality I was usually pretty loaded with the sugared cereal these psy-Prince Charming types. I have long believed that Jem's boyfriend, chopaths hawked when I was watching Saturday morning cartoons. Barbie's Ken, Ted from Scooby Doo, and David Hasselhoff are I would get up at about 4 a.m., and kick off the day with the Smurfs, 
II h d • 11 r
rea y t e same person. A mit it-you ve never seen them a a small, blue, inner-torest street gang of punks . Next, I often 
. h d h h 'd r.,,,_~~~PIII · d h f 1 · 1 h
m t e same p1ace at once, an t ey a11 have t at same vap1 enJoye t e Care Bears, a troop o mu ticolored amma s w o
)6, 

"IIi, I'm the boyfriend" expression permanently fixed on their faces. 
Jem's band rocked. They played pink instruments care­fully so as not to mess up their hair, but alas, Jem's band , The Holograms, has gone the way of fellow Hair bands Skid How and Motley Criie, and today she is probably on the road in a van, stopping to play bar gigs in the midwest to finance her hair spray and makeup habit. 
Other than Jem, I usually avoided cartoons specifically geared toward girls, like "Poochie," a program which detailed the social life of a pastel, makeup-wearing poodle. I preferred to watch "He-Man," about a sword-wielding guy who never wore anything but fur under­wear, and "The Thunder Cats," a cartoon about mutant cat people on steroids with cool names like Lionel, Tigra, and Bob. 
A lot of the cartoons I watched, like "My Little Pony," may be con­sidered excessively violent by the experts, but I think the most fright­ening cartoon images are found in kids' cereal commercials. They are nothing more than glimpses into the world of psychotic talking animals and mentally unstable elves-witness the anal-retentive trio, were able to save the world by aiming their tattooed stom­
achs at the sky and emitting a glowing signal, not unlike the 
technique I have seen demonstrated by many law enforce­
ment officers on "Cops." 
I always watched the "Shirt Tales," a group of cuddly ani­
mals whose t-shirts displayed every thought that crossed their minds. I think this show was canceled after Pee Wee Herman made a guest appearance and his t-shirt contained some, urn, especially interesting messages. 
I was a devoted fan of the Shirt Tales, and I was so excited when they were to visit a local K-Mart that I was bouncing off the walls without ingesting any Frosted Flakes. Sadly, when I arrived at the K-Mart the day of the Shirt Tales' appearance, they had already gone, leaving me with only a tell-tale tuft of fur here and there around the store. Needless to say, I was sufficiently psychologically disturbed by this incident to become a star in kids' cereal commer­cials. Anybody want to buy some Psycho Puffs©? 
by Jenny Shank 
Accent Writer 


SATURDAY 'lOONS
' . '• .. .. ' 
C•CBS;A,.ABC;F•FOX 
Time Cartoon Network 
7:30 Timon & Pumbaa C ··1:3 Free Willy A 
7:30 C-Bear & Jamal F ~!I'''·· Aladdin C 
8:00 Dumb & Dumber A J~iO Power Rangers F 
8:30 
Ninja Turtles C 8~3 Bump in the NightA 

8:30 
Masked Rider F ~"9Mn The Mask C 


~:00 Fudge A ~<9:00 Spider-Man F 
9:30 Ace Ventura C ,9;3 Reboot ~"A 
9:30X·Men F iO:OO Felix the Cat C tO:OO Bugs Bunny-hour A j 0;0 The Tick F 
10:30 Live with Louis F d~{O · Action Man , F 
11:00 What·A·Mess A ffi3. Weekend Speclili:A 
-
-

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, February 2, 1996 
•NBA 
A Magical showdown 
By WENDY E. LANE 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. Michael Jordan. The Bulls and their long win­ning streak. A Forum sellout. National television. 
In short, it's everything Magic Johnson missed during 4 1/2 years out of the NBA and every­thing that thrills him about being back. 
"It's going to be wild," Johnson said. 
When the Bulls come to the Forum on Friday night, it will be a flashback to the 1991 NBA Finals and the last meeting between Johnson and Jordan. 
Game 5 at the Forum gave Jordan and the Bulls the first of their three straight league championships and marked the last real game of Johnson's career until his comeback this week. 
It was just before the start of the next season that he learned he had contracted HIV and retired from the sport. 
Potentially, this could be the last time the two great friends and rivals play against each other-in the NBA because it's unknown whether 
Johnson will play beyond this season. 
It's the last time the Lakers play the Bulls this season, and the only way the teams could meet in the playoffs is in the finals. 
So Johnson knows the matchup is just as important to Jordan as it is to him. 
"He's sitting back licking his chops," Johnson said. "You've got to put on a show in L.A. He wants to rub it in his boy's face because we do a lot of talking in the summer. He wants to get the best of me just like I want to get the best of him. And it's going to be fun." 
Beyond the good theater provided by the Jordan-Johnson reunion, Lakers coach Del Harris concedes the Lakers haven't played long enough with Johnson to know if they can give the Bulls a more competitive game than they did on Dec. 16, when Los Angeles lost by 20 at Chicago. 
"Earvin is trying to force feed himself and the team, trying to get ready for this one," Harris said. 
"They've lost three games. Who doesn't want to pin No. 4 on them? But I'd hate for the suc­cess of this whole thing to rise or fall on our ability to pin No. 4 on them. I hope we can do it. But as I watch them play on film, they're the hardest team I've seen to guard right now." 
Johnson, who will again come off the bench, will primarily be matched up against Bulls for­ward Dennis Rodman, attempting to keep him off the boards. 
However, because the Bulls have a big back­court, with 6-6 Ron Harper usually bringing up the ball, Johnson .could play the point some, since starting point guard Nick Van Exel is just 6-1. 

um· UUJUIL!I ,,If the.first half, then lOSt of his 21 points in the sec~on111 layup that ended Orlando's fin 
.,z;k. withi~+21/2 1games.~f Orlando 
The Magic, who haven't lost a home '""'""vJu, dtoppedt()9-'13 OQ. the road. n.u.uc.tou•u. and Dennis Scott were the main offensive we•am:>ns 

ando on ap off-night for Anfernee Hardaway and '""'"""'" O'Neal. Hardaway was just 3~for~15 from the field for six and O'Neal had 16 points~ 
Hubert Davis had 17 points, Charles Oakley had 11 points and 14 rebounds and Derek Harper added 15 points and a """'"u•.•­high 12 assists for the Knicks, who had their most lopsided loss the season, 21 points, when they last played the Magic on Dec. at Orlando. 
that loss prompted Knicks coach Don Nelson to question 
team could shut down the Magic, and he answered lineup most of the time. Charles Smith, a ....~'''"''>r' John Starks· in the starti~g lineup and getting easy inside shots. York's strategy backfired a bit in the first half as nine 3~pointers. but the Magic was just 3-for·15 from . in the flna} tWO DAI'iOdS. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
MISSING: Long, forest green coat  TEACH ENGLISH ABROAD­ HOMES FOR RENT  Stressed? Need to find your cen­ !!!AUDITIONS!!!  
NOTICES  Last seen Thurs. 1/25 at Linebacker. Please call Kim at  Make up to $25-$45/hr. teaching basic conversational English  232-2595  ter? Tai'Chi/Kung Fu Club at the Rockne, Room 301, Sundays 10­ ON THE VERGE  
x4946.  abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.  1 BDRM IN 3·BDRM. HOME.  Noon.  Lab at Wash Hall  
---------Are you  Korea. Many employers provide  CLOSE TO CAMPUS. SAFE  Info? Call Dee Ann 1-5382.  6 pm Fri Feb2  
missing a ski jacket? Found at  room & board + other benefits. No  NEIGHBORHOOD. USE OF ALL  2 pm Sat Feb 3  
DO YOU THINK YOUR BAND HAS  Linebacker Thurs. 1/25. Call Kim  teaching background or Asian lan­ UTILITIES. $300/MO. CALL PAUL  International Film Festival  
WHAT IT TAKES?  x4946.  guages required. For more informa­ 232-2794.  Coming Soon!  HURRY! AVOID THE RUSH!!!  
tion call: (206) 971-3570 ext.  Cushing Auditorium  
BATTLE OF THE CAMPUS BANDS -THUR MAR 21 9-2 @  HELPI Someone must of picked up  J55842  FOR SALE  "II Postino" Feb 4 "The Promise" Feb 5  PlACE YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY ClASSIFIED ADS-NOW!!  
my green, down winter coat Friday  NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Montgomery Theatre  
BENEFIT FOR THE CENTER FOR  night after a party in 518 Flanner on  Positions are now available at  Pioneer AMIFM Stereo-Amp­ "Tatie Daniells" Feb 6  
THE HOMELESS  accident. It is waist length and has  National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  Receiver with Dual Tape Deck.  "EI Mariachi" Feb 7  If you haven't gotten a Lewis  
mittens in the pockets along with  Preserves. Excellent benefits +  100 Watts of tunes! Call John at  "Like Water tor Chocolate" Feb 8  Hall Grab 'n Go Bag then you're  
IF YOU WANT YOUR BAND TO  some computer disks. It you did or  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  232-2955 today!  all movies at7:30...$2.00  missing out on the chance to get a  
PARTICIPATE-EMAIL  know someone who found it,  N55844  ton of yummy chocolate chip gra­ 
XRayRJ@aol.com NOW FOR  PLEASE call Mary at x1496.  1984 FORD TEMPO  X-RAY ROGER JIMMY  nola bars! Bags will be on sale  
DETAILS  A.S.A.P. Thank you.  ????????????????????  5-spd manual transmission  216&2r7 at both dining halls.  
96,000 miles, good heater, always  "A MUST SEE BAND"  Don't miss out!!  
MISSING: Long, dark green L.L.  NEED A PlACE FOR THE SUM­ dependable $800  -Observer 4/95  
Bean coat. Last seen Thurs. 1/25  MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO  Call Chris today at271-02711  Hey Spanky­ 
at the Linebacker. If you have it, or  SUBLET· TWO BATH, TWO BED­ FRI 212 • CLUB 23  Lock the door next time.  
if you are missing a similar jackeH  ROOMS, ETC. AVAilABLE JUNE  JUDAY CREEK gem.  SAT 213-BRIDGET'S  
NEED KEENAN REVUE TIX??  found a similar one the same  -AUGUST.  Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch  Sara, I think you can make me  
Sorry, can't help you there.  evening-please call Kim at x4946.  CALL 273-1738.  with a 17 x 25 home office  CD ON SALE AT TRACKS-BUY IT!  happy.  
But you could go see...  & 3-car garage.  
• DEAD PRESIDENTS •  FOUND: Dark green Columbia ski  ????????????????????  $154,900.  FOR MORE INFO -EMAIL  Yeah, Goodrich is coming. Oh no.  
8:00 and 10:30 Fri., Sat.  jacket. Found at Linebacker. 1/25.  Call Karen 272-3653.  XRayRJ@aol.com  Wait. That damn Schlitz character  
2:00 Sun.  Please call Kim at x4946.  screwed up.  
Cushing Aud. $2.00  Computer Science student capable  ALUMNI  X-RAY ROGER JIMMY  
of programming excell. Earn a  MANY BEDROOMS  Gimme 12 pages. Gimme two  
I lost my favourite scarf between  great reference for your resume  10 MINUTES TO CAMPUS  SABOR LATINO  weeks in a Dublin castle. Gimme a  
Newland Science Hall and the post  and Subway Subs for your time.  SALE OR TRADE  laptop. Or else I break the twig  
SATURDAY NIGHT  office last thursday. It is dark green  Call 289-1288, ask for the General  812-923-8486  Saturday Feb 3  into a million Iitle pompous pieces.  
COLLEGE NIGHT AT CORBY'S  and has a checkered pattern on it.  Manager.  10 pm • 2 am  
THE GREEN lANTERN BAND  Please, please, please call Chis at  1993 Honda Prelude 4WSI, 5­ Club23  Dante dumps Duke. He just keeps  
4·1697 if you happen to find it.  Looking for a part·time babysitter,  Speed, Anti-Lock Brakes, Dual  gelling better and better. I smell  
To Die For  very flexible with hours and days in  Airbags, Power­ SABOR LATINO  Italians in the lottery.  
212 -213, 7 & 9:30  I lost my camera at McCormick's  my Granger home for 2 children  Locks/Brakes/Mirrorsfflindows/Sun  
Carroll Auditorium, SMC  last Thurs. 1/25. If found, please  ages 1 and 3. If interested, call 273­ Roof, Air, CruCntl,  Andrea Fea is 22! Happy Birthday  That Black '47 review was just plain  
Free Admission  call Lorna@ 1275.  2695.  AM/FMICASS/CD, and Secutiry  Elicial If you're lucky, maybe some­ bad.  
System. Original Owner, Show  one will get you a cool vest like  
Spring Break • •  LOST! I Ill  Room Condition, 37,000 Miles,  Neil's.  I heard ESPN is coming to film the  
TO MAZATtAN, MEXICO from  I.D. bracelet. Says "Christopher".  CAMP EBERHART, THREE  Asking $17,200.00.  LNO kickball championship match.  
$399. Airn nights hotel. Free night­ Reward for return. Please call, sen·  RIVERS, MI.  (616)651-2335  SMC-ND 23RD ANNUAL SUMMER  I think Berman and Vitale are doing  
ly parties/discounts. Call Ron 800­ timental value.  LOOKING FOR MATURE, HARD­ PROGRAMS IN  the game.  
288-0328  Call Chris, @ 1662  WORKING, RESPONSIBLE INDI·  '89 BERETTA,  LONDON (MAY 22-JUNE 21)  
VI DUALS FOR OUTDOOR EDU­ V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console,  AND ROME (JUNE 16-JULY 15)  Rick Fox, resourceful. That's just  
SPRING BREAK!  CATION PROGRAM. EXPERI­ cruise, front-wheel drive, air.  TRAVEL IN IRElAND, SCOTT,  Eric Montross being Eric Montross.  
With only 1 week to live, DON'T  Lost: A green, Columbia Bugaboo  ENCE PREFERRED, (WILL TRAIN  Excellent condition, new front tires  FR., GER., SWITZ., AND ITALY  
BLOW IT!  Ski Jacket from the coat room at  HOWEVER). MID MARCH TO  & exhaust system, and new shocks.  COURSES IN PHOTO., BUEC,  LIZ and MEL.. .. Get Well Soon II  
Organize group-TRAVEL FREE  Senior Bar last Thusday night. It  JUNE. POTENTIAL FOR SUMMER  Call654-7439 (local call).  HIST., BIO., SOC., AND ITALIAN.  
Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas  had a purple, inner liner and a ski  & FALL EMPLOYMENT. $140PW  MEETING FEB. 5, 7:00 PM CAR­ 6 chaste, non-drinking, phun  
$359 Florida $109 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash  lift ticket attached. I ended up with a very similar jacket that was hung  INCLUDING ROOM & BOARD. CALL 616'244-5125  TICKETS  ROLL HALL (SMC)-INFO. CALL DR. BLACK 284-4460/  Pangborn phoxes seeking prayer· lui, proper & punctual Bob Barker­ 
1-800-426-771 0  near mine. If you have mine or  272-3729.  loving boys for dance. Don't forget  
want yours. please call Travis at  Desperately need 1 St. John's GA.  Revised Bible, breakfast grab & go  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  X2091.  Summer jobs available near Glacier  Call Staph: 634-4638  Next time you are in UP Mall go say  and change of clothes. Call Marge  
Specials! 111% Lowest Price  National Park. The Park Cafe &  hi to AMY at Payless  @2377.  
Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From $429! Save $100 On  WANTED  Grocery in St. Mary, Montana, east entrance to Glacier, has positions  need ST JOHNS tix call2342  Where is my Valentine troll?  
Food/Drinks! http://www.spring­ open in cafe, gift, & grocery store,  Hey Gamblers­ Poor naked Irving.  
breaktravel.com  ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students  and gas station. Call Kathryn day­ WILL PAY BIG$  "Moderation is the Mark  
1-800-678-6386  PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/start  time; 406-587-1816 for into.  FOR MACBETH  of Maturity"  
Flexible hours around classes. All  TIX; CALL BEN  Love, A Gambler  GUADATARD! Don't get caught in  
Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days  majors. Scholarships/Internships  Castle Point resident needs room­ AT X1563.  anymore turnstiles!! You rock,  
Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to  CALL 282-2357  mate immediately! Rent $250/mo +  Theatre! Theatre!  especially when you make drunken  
Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great  WANTED: Good people to earn  utils. Will have own room & bed. Call Sharat at (272-3402(H), 631­ PERSONAL  Cavanaugh Hall Players  beans! *OINK.OINK* Pooh Bear  
....  Beaches-Near Disney) $169!  money by becoming reps for  5735(Wk) or email  presents:  Luke, take these two into the  
Daytona $139! http://www.spring­ EXCEL Telecommunications. Call  msharatc@ bach.helios.nd.edu  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0  garage, will you? I want them  
breaktravel.com.  299-1999 evenings.  QUALITY COPIES, QUICKL Yl!!  tATER LIFE by A.R. Gurney  cleaned up before dinner.  
1-800-678-6386  Need caring, qualified person to  THE COPY SHOP  (whining) But I was going into  
babysit pt in our home. Need own  LaFortune Student Center  Washington Hall, 2/1,2,3 at 8pm  Tosche Station to pick up some  
AlASKA EMPLOYMENT- trans. M & W. 273-9512  Phone 631·COPY  Tix $3 available only at door  power converters!  
ILOST & FOUND I  Students Needed! Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3,000·$6,000+ per month. Room and Board!  FOR RENT  0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0o0 Man, that John Lucas is some guy.  Doors open at 7:30 prn "I really need a random hook-up...  You can waste time with your friends when your chores are done. Now come on, get to it.  
Found a unique 18K gold pin last  Transportation! Male or Female. No  He coaches the Sixers and finds  but I don't want it to be cheap!"  All right, come on. And the red one,  
semester. Please write a full dis­ experience necessary. Call  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  lime to be editor of the Observer.  come on. Well, come on, Red, let's  
cription to P.O.Box 111 ND, 46556.  (206)971·3510 ext A55843  219-291·7153  Wow.  I am not a crook ....  go! (whining) Uncle Owen. this R2  
unit has a bad motivator. look'  

--~-----~-----~----­
.r 

Friday, February 2, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
page 15 
RecSports o lCe an the fee is
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
$30.00. There will be an infor­
Women's Lacrosse: Practice 
mation session on Tuesday,will be held Monday and Jan. 30 at 6:30 p.m. in Rockne 
Wednesday at 10:15 pm at 
Rm. 219. Sign-ups begin Wed. 
Loftus beginning January 29. 
Jan. 31 at 8:00 a.m. In the 
Mandatory informational meet­
RecSports office. For more 
ing February 5 at 9:15 in the 
info. call lx6100. Open to all Notre Dame Room, Lafortune. 
NO students, faculty and staff. 
Questions, Call Allison 239­
7924. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics: RecSports will be sponsoring
Late Night Olympics X: Late two clinics on Saturday, Feb. 3. 
Night Olympics is scheduled for The clinics will be at 10:00 a.m. 
Friday, Feb. 2 from 7:00p.m. ­and 12:30 p.m. The fee for the 
.??? at the Joyce Center. The clinic is $5.00 with an addition­
proceeds from this all-night 
al $2.00 rental fee for the skis. 
sports extravaganza go to ben­
Register ln advance at efit the St. Joseph County RecSports. For more info, call 
Special Olympics. 'For informa­lx6100. Open to all NO stu­tion contact your Hall dents, faculty and staff. 
Representative or call 
RecSports at 1x6100. 
Mountain Biking Club: Meeting Feb. 8, 7:00 p.m. in 
ESPN will be filming the Saint LaFortune. All levels welcome. 
Mary's basketball game vs. 
Contact Patrick van den Broeke Lake Forest (7 p.m.) on with questions 236-7266. 
Tuesday, Feb. 6, There will be a pep rally before the game Intercollegiate Bowling: Any
beginning at 6 p.m. Please 
students of Notre Dame or 
come and show your SMC spir­Saint Mary's who are interested 
it. 
in intercol!egiate bowling competition, please contact 
Jazz Dance: A Jazz Dane Jason at 4x1065. class will be offered on Monday and Wednesday evenings from 
Archery Mini-Course: 
6;30-7:45 in Rockne Rm. 219. 
RecSports will be sponsoring an 
All levels are welcome, but Archery mini-course on 
space is limited. You must reg­Tuesday and Wednesday,ister in advance in the 
February 6 & 7 from 7-9 p.m. 

Tennis 
continued from page 24 
Lord started a bit slow in her 
singles mateh, which caused it 
to go to three sets. She man­
aged to defeat her Wildcat op­
porwnt, 6-4. 4-6, 6-4. "Lord 
started out well, but then she 
let hnr opponent back into it, 
forcing a third set," stated 
Loudnrback. "Then she got 
back into the game, and put 
the mateh away." 
The freshman showed their powtlr once again in this match, as both came up with hugn victories. The two are vi­tal members of the team. Both manage to come up with big victories over impressive oppo­nents. "They are both so strong," stated Vitale, "Hall and Vtllasco are doing great 
jobs at no. 3 and no. 4 singles. They are both huge eontribu­tors to the team." 
llall dominated her opponent at no. 3 singles, 6-0, 6-2. Velaseo defended her winning strtlak, yet again this week. She shutdnwn Northwestern's 
1811 S Ironwood Dr 
Between Lincoln­way and Calvert! 
!233·7272J 
54533 Terrace Ln 
Next to Subway on SR23! 
1271·1177 j 
Perfect Pizza. Perfect Price. Everyday. 

own freshman phenom, Laura 
Guignon, 6-2, 6-4. 
Junior Erin Gowen posted an 
impressive shutout of her op­
ponent. Gowen did not allow 
Northwestern's Porter a 
chance to score. "Gowen lost a 
few matches a couple weeks 
ago, due to a bout with the nu. 
but now she is back in good 
health which showed today. 
She played very well," com­
mented Louderback. 
The team can not dwell on their sweet revenge this week­end, because they are off to seek some more in Kansas. Actually the Irish are looking for a little revenge over William & Mary this year, after suffering a close loss last year, 4-5. On Saturday, the 15th ranked Irish will face the 13th ranked Tribe at Kansas. Then on Sunday, the team will meet the 26th ranked Kansas Jayhawks. 
"The matches this weekend will be tough," stated Louderbaek. "In the past three years, the matches have been extremely close. In the end, I think that it will be tight, and the best team will win." 
• PROFESSIONAl TENNIS 
Muster 
new no. 1 
Associated Press 
MONTE CARLO, Monaco 

Andre Agassi will lose his No. 
1 spot to Austrian Thomas 
Muster in the next ATP Tour 
rankings because of a schedul­
ing quirk. 
Agassi, who took over as No. 1 from Pete Sampras at the Australian Open last week, will drop to third when the list is published Feb. 12. 
The reason for the change is that a tournament in San Jose, Calif., is being played a week later this year because first­round Davis Cup matches are scheduled for the weekend of Feb. 9-11. 
As a result, Agassi will lose the 204 computer points he picked up for winning in San Jose last year. 




Take a break and 
enioy the Perfect 
Pizza at the Perfect 
Price -fresh and 
steaming hot. We'll 
even include our 
Oeftv.t-,.,irj Tf,t ~( Riza/ 
special garlic sauce 
r-i;;m;sie;;-:----i;~;----rr~M~i0~sp~~~ 
: Large : • • : Large 1-Toppmg, Bread Stlx, 
1 

1 Topping Pizza : 1Topping PIZZa : & 2Cokes
1 1 
: 9pm·close 1 ~5 1 $1gOO _ I 
:$595 •Y• MCJlrliil ! $a-.w £JJlliti : LqtQM~
•w : 

L-----------~------------L-------~-~-~ 

Ain't nothin' better than havin' DEAD PRESIDENTS in my pocket 
Come down to Cushing to see: 
DEAD PRESIDENTS 
Sunday lp.m. $2.00 

and pepperoncinis ­all at no extra cost! So if you get the hungries for great­tasting pizza, Call your Papa. It's that easy! 
---~----~---~ ----~­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 2, 1996 
Miami, the Irish committed 24
•NFL 
turnovers, something that
Wolllen 

must be remedied as the Irish continued from page 24 head toward the post-season..
Seahawks L.A., Rose Bowl bound 
Although Coach McGraw has 
By jiM COUR 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
The Seattle Seahawks are moving, and this time it's Los Angeles that is getting a team. 
The Seahawks intend to play next season in Los Angeles, which last year lost both its pro football franchises. 
Citing the high cost of reno­vating the aging Kingdome, team sources said Thursday the Seahawks would play in the 1 02,083-seat Rose Bowl after 20 years in Seattle. 
Seahawks owner Ken Behring met with King County officials at an undisclosed location to notify them of the move. County offi­cials said an announcement was planned for later in the day. 
The Seahawks would be the fifth NFL franchise to recently change cities. 
The Raiders and Rams left Los Angeles last year. The Cleveland Browns have announced they will play next season in Baltimore and the Houston Oilers will move to Tennessee. 
Since the Rams and Raiders moved from Los Angeles, the nation's second-largest TV mar­ket was left without an NFL team. 
There was no immediate response from Pasadena's Rose Bowl Operating Committee. A message requesting comment 
The Rose Bowl will be the new home of the Seahawks. 
,......•................................................ 

All Petition~ for • 
t~ 
r.;:;;;;;;]f:Wil
t::J~B 
!llllf!ITGOYIINJWa 

are oue in tne ~tuoent Government Office 
on ilie 2nd floor ofLafortune by 
Friday,February2nd at J:OOpm. 
!!!!!!!NO EXCEPTIONS!!!!!!! ! 
I I 

......................................................... 
from its president, Alfred Moses, was left with his office. 
KIRO-TV in Seattle said Seahawks coaches were told Wednesday to be ready to move to the Rose Bowl. 
It seemed unlikely the 74­year-old Rose Bowl would be the team's permanent home. however. 
Several groups in Los Angeles have expressed interest in building a new stadium for an existing or an expansion NFL franchise. Among them were 
R.D. Hubbard, chairman of the Hollywood Park racetrack; Dodgers owner Peter O'Malley; and Disney chairman Michael Eisner. 
have continued to improve as the season has progressed, with the notable exception of the UConn game. A telling illustration of this is the fact that Notre Dame now leads the nation in field goal percent­age, shooting 50. 7%, while limiting their opponents to only 38%. 
Leading this charge, as al­ways, are junior forwards, and All-American candidates, Beth Morgan and Gaither. 
Each is averaging 20.9 points per game, while Gaither is grabbing nearly 10 rebounds per contest. 
Senior co-captain Carey Poor has also been making her presence felt, as she has con­tributed nearly 10 points and more than 6 rebounds a game. 
A distinctive characteristic of the team's play of late, how­ever, is their first half turnover problem. 
In their last game against 

been able to adjust at half­time, the team cannot afford to keep this up, especially on the road, where the Irish will play five of their last eight games. 
While the Irish has a very respectable 6-3 road record, the Scarlet Knights have also been playing well of late. They plan on defending their home court well, where they too are 6-3. 
Rutgers is led by guard Liz Hanson, who is averaging 13.6 points. 
If the Irish are to win, they must contain Hanson, as they did the last time the two teams played. In that game, she fouled out with only five points. 
"Liz Hanson is their best player," commented coach McGraw. "She is playing very well. We did a good job on her last time, and it will Jeannine Augustin's job to do that again this time." 


-------------------~---------------~-----­
Friday, February 2, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• TRACK & fiElD 
Irish, Loftus hosts competitive Meyo Invitational 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
Beginning today, the Irish men's and women's track and field teams will host the two­day Meyo Invitational at Loftus Sports Center. This will mark the first of two home meets on the :;chcdule this season. 
The meet will include both professional and collegiate ath­letes, including at least three former Olympians and a hand­ful of future hopefuls. Two especially exciting events will be the men's 3000 meter run, featuring Notre Dame's Matt Althoff, as well as two former Olympic runners and the Meyo Invitational Mile. This race includes a mix of professionals and nationally ranked colle­giate milers. Last year, the event was won by Michigan sophomore Kevin Sullivan with what was then the fastest time in the country. He will be back this year to defend his title. 
Both the Irish men and women have sprinted to strong starts early in the season. In fact, Notre Dame school records have already begun to fall. Freshman Kelle Saxen set a new Irish mark in the high jump two weeks ago with a jump of 5'8" and senior Greg Moretti broke the record in the 35-pound weight throw by three full feet. 
The team also turned in some very impressive performances last Saturday at the four-team DePaul Invitational. The women were responsible for six first-place finishes and the men recorded seven. 
The ladies owned the short to middle-distance events, captur­ing the top three times in the 400 and 800 meter runs. 
Beds. Booths & Euros Open 7 Days a Week Convenient Hours Student Discounts 
< 
272.-7653 
~ UNIVERSITY COMMONS : BY U.P. MALL 
. 256-9656 
GRAPE & McKINLEY • NEAR K-MART 
91JIHUNTAN.INC 
__________.J
It I( f.J: 
Senior co-captain Erica Peterson took first in the 400 with a time of 57.34 seconds. Remarkably, Nadia Schmiedt and Alison Howard tied for sec­ond (58.51). Topping the rest of the field in the 800 were Berit Junker (2:13.12), Carolyn Long (2:21.21), and Gretchen Weiher (2:25.04). The mile was won by senior Amy Siegel, who ran a personal best of 5:05.15. 
Peterson, who also registered a team-best time in the 55 me­ter high hurdles at DePaul, will be competing in the 800 and the mile relay this weekend. Schmiedt , Howard, and Junker will round out the relay. 
Peterson commented on the friendly rivalry between Junker and herself in the 800 meter run. 
"We both had personal bests of 2:11.00 two weeks ago (at the Butler Open) and our goal (today) will be to lower that time." 
In running events, sophomore Errol Williams burnt his com­petitors with a 22.45 second performance in the 200 and fel­low sophomore Jason Hexing outlasted the field of miters with a time of 4:13.53. 
The field events were also strong for the men. Senior co­captain Michael Fleisch won the shot put with a distance of 59'9.25" and Moretti triumphed in the 35-pound weight throw with a toss of 56'6". The pole vault was the site of another strong showing for the Irish, as the men swept the event. Senior David Gerrity took first with a jump over 15 feet, fol­lowed by freshman Mike Brown (15 feet) and Mike Stany (12 feet). 
Unfortunately for the team, Gerrity will not be competing this weekend due to a back in­jury. However, when asked about how his absence would affect Notre Dame's chances, he said that he expected Brown to compete well. 
Brown, California's high school state champion in the pole vault last year, will cer­tainly have to give it 110% if he hopes to challenge Bowling Green's Travis Downey and Purdue's Randy Miller. The two have jumped personal bests of 17' 4" and 17' 1" respectively. 
When questioned about possi-
The Student Union Board Cultural Artspn·spnts tlw 
ble Irish scoring opportunities, Fleisch and Althoff listed quite a few events that appear promising. Fleisch is expected to take second in the shot put. In the high jump, Saxen (Irish women's record holder) looks to score, as does Todd Johnston, who has already cleared 6'10" this season. Others include Moretti in the 35-pound weight throw, Brown in the pole vault, and Errol Williams in 55 meter hurdles. 
Commenting on the season thus far, Althoff explained, "We've proven that we belong in the Big East." 
"Right now we're on track to do well at the Big East Championships, " added Fleisch. "This week's meet will be our first big test though." 
Peterson was on the same wavelength as the men about team goals for the season. 
"It's our first season in the Big East," Peterson noted, "and when we got together at the beginning of the year, we de­cided to aim for the top live in the conference. I am very proud of how Notre Dame looked on the track last week­end. I think that both the men and women can do great things this season." 
The Big East Championships will take place from February 17-18 in Syracuse, New York. 
IIIII CIIITIY Ill llllllflll IIIIITIY 
11le Prefarrd R•glstry 
IIIIII'VIIIIIull'loul .._• III'IVIII ._1111' IIIIIMC IPICIII1111111 WIIUIIIII: .I'Wi8rlll.lfalllll
.. 
lilY It 1111 .....,......... wiiiiiVIIIIMI 
To resavr: 
Call 1219)273-7003 • Fax 1219)273·2455 
Don'tGet 
Left Out 
In The Cold 
Heat is Included in Your Rent! 
Plus Gas For 
Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes Attentive Staff Community Activities Pool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
272-1880 
Call or stop by tod<Jy and we'll show you how greaiiNing al HICkmy Village can be. 
+llCKORlJ DlLLA(3E. 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 

• COlLEGE BASKETBALl 
PC, Memphis win close ones 

By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press 
NEWTON, Mass. 
Derrick Brown scored 23 points and Michael Brown added 20 Thursday night as Providence continued its domi­nation of Boston College with a 76-75 victory over the 21st­ranked Eagles. 
The Friars (11-7. 4-6 Big East) beat a ranked team for the first time this season in four tries. They've had much better luck against Boston College (12­5, 5-4) lately, though, winning the last four and seven of the last eight. 
It looked like Providence would win this one easily. The Friars took the lead with six minutes left in the first half and held it until Scoonie Penn's 3­pointer made it 68-68 with three minutes to go. It was the first field goal of the game for Penn, who had been Big East rookie of the week twice in January. 
Duane Woodward hit two free throws -the Eagles made 27 in a row during the game -to give BC a 70-68 lead. But Austin Croshere hit a 3-pointer, the Friars' 14th of the game, to give Providence a 71-70 lead with 1:10 left. 
After a BC time out, 
Woodward threw away the ball. 
God Shammgod hit a long 2­
pointer for Providence, then 
Penn turned the ball over and 
Michael Brown sank two free 
throws to make it 75-70. 
It was 76-72 when Boston 
College's Danya Abrams, who 
scored 24, fetched a loose ball 
at midcourt and fired in a 3­
pointer. But there was only a 
tenth of a second left. 
Providence led 33-32 at the 
half, then made its first six 3­
point tries at the start of the 
second half to open a nine-point 
lead. 
Syracuse 72 Miami 51 
John Wallace scored 19 points and Otis Hill had 17 as No. 18 Syracuse held Miami to 30 percent shooting en route to a 72-51 victory Thursday night. 
It was the second straight blowout loss for Miami (10-8, 4-6 Big East), which lost by 28 to Villanova on Saturday. 
Syracuse (15-6, 6-5) avenged a 75-66 loss to Miami earlier this year. Wallace and Hill helped the Orangemen build a 13-point lead in the first half, and both sat the bench for the final 11 minutes of the Big East contest. 
Miami, which remained win­less on the road in the Big East in five tries, was led by Steven Edwards' 13 points. 
The Hurricanes were 20-of­
66 from the field for the game 
and were held to their lowest 
point total of the season. 
Syracuse bottled up the Miami offense for a nine­minute stretch midway through the first half, outscor­ing the Hurricanes 22-5 during that span to turn a 10-all tie into a 32-15 cushion. 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6 
1:30 and 7:30 P.M. 
Cary Grant andAudreyHepburn star in 
CHARADE 


H.U.G.S. 
There is a mandatory meeting on February 5, at 7:00 pm in the C.S.C. auditorium for all schedualed members. 
For those people who had a TB test done last semester, but did not get a spot, there is a mandatory meeting on February 5, at 6:45, the C.S.C. 
No new members will be accepted due to Hospital Regulation concerning the TB test. 
Memphis 83 DePaul 82 
Mingo Johnson scored six points in overtime as No. 11 Memphis withstood DePaul's second-half surge for an 83­82 victory Thursday night, sending the Blue Demons to their school-record ninth straight loss. 
-Johnson, who had three free throws and a 3-pointer in the overtime, led the Tigers with 21 points. Lorenzen Wright had 17 points and 12 rebounds for the Tigers, now 16-3 overall and 7-1 in Conference USA. 
DePaul (7-12, 0-8) got 23 points and 10 rebounds from Bryant Bowden, who missed a last-second shot that could have won for the Blue Demons. Jermaine Watts, whose 3-pointer with 4.9 sec­onds to go in regulation forced overtime, added 17. 
DePaul's previous eight­game losing streak came dur­ing the 1970-71 season, the last time the Blue Demons had a losing record; they fin­ished 8-17 under coach Ray ­Meyer. Current head coach Joey Meyer was the captain. 
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 
Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encouraged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding of accounting principles. 
Applicants should submit a resume and five-page statement to Liz Foran by 5 p.m. Tuesday, February 6. For additional information about the positions contact Business Manager joe Riley at 631-5313, or Editor-in-Chief john Lucas at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the third floor of LaFortune. 


--------~----~--~ ­

Friday, February 2, 1996 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 
who are poor percentage shoot­ers and they have big men who look to do nothing but rebound," Irish freshman Antoni Wyche noted. "We have to look to out-rebound them." 
All of which bodes well for Notre Dame, which is consid­ered onn of the more physical squads in the conference, and has shown that it can rebound with anyonn. 
In faet, in their mueh recol­lected prior rnateh-up, the Irish were the ones dnaning off the glass with a frenzy, out-re­bounding the lloyas by a great1ir margin than anyone els1~ has (43-34). 
A repeat performance Saturday at noon in USAir Arena would go a long way to­ward Notre Dame's chances for its biggest upset win of the sea­son. 
The Irish can hope to parley Wednesday's upset win at St. John's into the momentum they will need to go after bigger game. 
"(That win} is the boost that we have been waiting for," said Irish coach John MacLeod. "It is a major shot in the arm, and shows that we can get up on the road." 
Grabbing an early lead is cru­cial against the Hoyas, who de­spite their blue-collar ethic still have the ability to embarrass a team with only a few runs. 
To counteract this, the Irish will likely rely on the outside shooting of senior Hyan Hoover, who has exhibited a penchant for knocking down the clutch shot, most recently an NBA-dis­tance 3-pointer that temporari-
INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
SOUTH BEND 
CONTU«<TNGEDU~ON 
English as a 
12 Tuesdays,
Second 
Feb. 13-Aprll30 7·9:30 p.m. $189
Language 
• 
Improve active use of written and spoken English 

• 
Understand verbal and non-verbal differences in communication between cultures 

• 
Develop and improve listening, speaking, reading and writing skills 

• 
Receive individualized attention from the instructor 


To register, or for information, call IUSB Continuing Education at 237-4261 
The Observer • SPORTS 

ly stifled a St. John's rally. 
Hoover also enjoyed success in the previous game against the Hoyas, scoring a season­high (since matched twice) of 26 points. 
Together with Pat Garrity, he provides one of the more formi­dable inside-outside combina­tions in the conference. 
However, the two will need help from their supporting cast. In a loss to West Virginia, the Irish were unable to respond when the Mountaineers' trian­gle-and-two defense shut down Hoover and Garrity. 
In contrast, the pair had solid second halves against the Red Storm when forward Derek Manner and reserve Admore White opened up the offense. 
Scoring, though, is not the only concern for the Irish. Stopping the explosive Hoyas also tops the list. 
In the previous game, Notre Dame employed a zone to keep Iverson from penetrating. The tactic was successful as far as it went, but the Hoyas were even­tually able to pull away on the strength of their strong perime­ter shooting that evening. The Ir.ish are hoping that was an anomaly. 
The Irish returned to a zone against the Red Storm, and were able to build a dominating 19-point lead. Expect to see more of it on Saturday. 
"Georgetown has a lot of indi­viduals with great talent but they're not great at shooting from the outside which the zone will force them to do," Wyche said. 
ERASMUS BO 

• 
Used books bought ancJ sold 

• 
25 categories of Bookl> 

• 
25,00J Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Outrof-Print Search Service: 


$200 
• Appraisals large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 46617 [21 9)232-8444 


Spend your Spring Break on our warm & wonderful America's South Tour! March 9th-17th, 1996  
•  A 9-day deluxe escorted motorcoach tour for those 18'-28' years of age!  
•  Highlights include ... .I Memphis and Graceland .I New Orleans .I Panama City Beach, Florida, "homeH to Spring Break '96 ./ Atlanta .t 7 nights in quality hotels ./ 6 meals provided .t Convenient ND & SMC campus pick-up & return  
•  Priced at $58'9  

Call Cultural Hi-Ways (1.8'00.8'19.768'3) for all the details. Cultural Hi-Ways is a member of the National Tour Association. Our guests are covered by the Association's Consumer Protection Plan. 
(Jane Rolla, president of Cultural Hi-Ways, is a 1974 SMC graduate.) ,,..r .... •·•~....,....,.,.,...,..,._ ... ""' ...,~.., 
...,,,,,.... ,............. ~·,·--f-•-. 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 2, 1996 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Boise State on tap for no. 16 Irish 

By JOE CAVATO 
Sports Writer 
One of Notre Dame's hottest athletic teams will be in action this afternoon. The sixteenth ranked Notre Dame's men's tennis team will face yet another formidable oppo­nent as they play host to the no. 27 ranked Boise State squad. 
Boise State will throw one of the toughest one-two combi­
nations the Irish will face this season. State's top two sin­
gles positions features two nationally ranked juniors. 
Alvin Polonoyi, a transfer from the University of Georgia, plays at the no 1 slot and is ranked twenty-third in the country. Last year Ernesto Diaz, currently ranked twenty sixth, played at one singles, but with the arrival of Polonoyi, Diaz has moved to no. 2. 
At the beginning of the year the highest ranked Irish players were captain Mike Sprouse at 52 and Ryan Simme at the no 37 spot. So, this looks to be a very tough and competitive match. 
"I think all the matches will be close," head coach Bobby Bayliss predicted. "We won a close match with them last year 4-3, in which three of the matches went to tie break­ers. So, we know that they can play." 
Similar to the Irish, State has already played national 
Photo courtesy ot Notre Dame Sports tntormation powers. They knocked off the Minnesota Golden Gophers, 
Senior John Jay O'Brien and company will be up ranked twenty third, whom the Irish defeated earlier this 
ag"!-inst Boise State this week~nd. The Irish put season by a count of 5-2. 
their undefeated record on the line. "Looking at the potential match-ups I see a lot of close matches," Bayliss observed. "We don't have a huge edge in any one area and we know that they are heatable at every position. We won the doubles point last year and I don't see either team winning without that point." 
The no. 1 doubles match will clash two top twenty teams. For State, Polonoyi and Diaz make up the thirteenth ranked doubles squad in the nation. Seniors Mike Sprouse and Jason Pun form the nineteenth best doubles team in the nation for the Irish's no. 1 and undefeated doubles pairing. 
"We know it's going to be a tough match, probably our toughest so far this year," Pun explained. "We barely beat them last year and they are probably better this year. We are going to go out and fight as hard as we can and hope­fully we can come out with a win." 
Junior Ryan Simme, who did not play a singles match against Miami, is expected to return to singles action this afternoon. Simme's foot injury hindered his mobility last Sunday in the doubles match, but has looked better in prac­tice this week. 
"I expect Ryan to play at the 2 or 3 position," Bayliss voiced. "Ryan's foot injury has been less critical for us because of the play of Jakup (Pietrowski) at the number two position and Mike (Sprouse)." 
"I know Ryan thinks he is ready to play at 1 or 2 which is good," continued Bayliss, "but we are really not pressured to move him up because of the Mike and Jakup. Having dif­ficulty choosing between Jakup or Ryan is kind of a nice problem to have. I hope it continues." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
{$  
@  
*  Kalisha Addington  Rebecca E. Daulton  John Heilman  Catherine Marciano  Christian Parker  Nicole Smullen  
* ®  Kristin Alworrh Thomas Asci Angela M. Aurh  Bridget S. Davin Eileen Oeiteman Laure Grace DeMattia  Melanie Heitman Deborah Hellmuth Lisa Hellrung  Kate Marhoefer Kathleen Marren Amabella Martinez  Laura Parker Melissa Pasteris Hodge Pard  Steven P. Smyth Stephanie Snyder Scott Soli mann  
®  Ellen Avery  Meghan DeNiro  Molly Henry  Jennifer Mason  Laurie Pater  Colby Brian Springer  
®  Kathleen Bailie  Keith Dillhoff  Colleen Henshaw  Mark Massoud  Megan Eileen Pater  Scott Srarenchak  
®  Scott J. Baker  Erin K. Dinan  Carissa Hernandez  Emily Matson  Erik Paulson  Lauren Stein  
®  Jessica Balsrer Joan Bannon  Chris Dobranski Allison Dobson  Scott Hewitt Barbara Hinsman  Carey May Melissa M. Maykurh  Michelle L. Paynter Mary Therese Pence  Sim Stokes Mary Eliz. Swope  
@  Dennis J. Basila  Regan Doherry  Amelia Hodak  Molly Me Cracken  Frank P. Perez  Jennifer Szarek  
@Center for  Amy Eliz. Ban  Brian Donohoe  Erin M. Hoffmann  Melissa A. McAllister  Krisry Perry  Mark E. Tate  
@  Stacey Baudo  Kelli Donohue  Michelle S. Holden  Maura E. McCauley  Kathryn Petrovic  Heather Templeton  
Social  Nick Becker  Michael G. Donovan  Laura Holland  Christine McConaghy  Noelle Phillips  Marisa Tesoro  
*  Jeffrey Beh  Jennifer A. Dougherry  Colleen E. Horan  Cheryce McDonald  Harrison Pierce  Kara M. Thiede 
Concerns *  Sharon E. Beierle  MatthewDowd  Christine Hourican  Sarah McDonald  Jason J. Pierce  Ashleigh Thompson  
@  Heather Belanger  Kerry Ducey  Michael Hub  Patrick McGovern  Tara Pierce  Thomas Thornton  
$  Patrick Belton Julie Berrett  Isaac Duncan Elizabeth Edwards  ColinA. Hun Mary Eliz. Hyder  Sarah Ann McGowan Sarah McGreevy  Yvette Piggush Kary Pleimann  Julie Tilghman Jason Timmermann  
@  Christine Berry  Amy E. Eichstadt  Suzanne lnzerillo  Bridget Mcinerney  Ryan Plurnicki  Heather Tomlinson  
®  Shane McRann Bigelow  Joel Elsesser  Michael Jaccarino  Lori Teresa McKeough  Kevin Pollock  Kelly T umilry  
The 1996 Church and Social ®  Pete Blake  Kristin Engel  Rebecca Jacobs  Molly McLaughlin  Megan Pomrink  Karen Uhlmeyer  
®  Dennis Borgerding Mary Clare Bourjaily  Erica Espinola Daniel T. Fannon  Benjamin Stephen Jankowski Jennifer Jaquerh  Kevin McManus Erin McMurrough  Amanda Pontarelli Stephen P. Ponzillo  Carrie N. Upp Michelle Van Meter  
Action (Urban Plunge) was ®  Thomas D. Bradshaw  Joelle Farmer  Joanne M. Joliet  Bridger McNassar  Emily M. Porrune  Margie Vegh  
@  Gillian Brady  Patrick Fear  Christopher Jonick  David McNier  Andrew Powell  Michael Vercillo  
dedicated to Lloyd Simms '* * '71, who was a host for the * @  Kathleen Brannock Laura Branrman Kristin Brantmeier Shannon C. Brennan Jennifer Breslow  Michael Feehan Lucy Ferber Michael Fesenmeier Kirsten M. Firla Susan Fischesser  Kathleen Joyce Mindi Rose Kalogera Karin Leigh Kane Erin Patricia Kappler Vijay Karia  Stac~y Lynn MeN ulry Ryan McQuillan Julie Melby Tracy A. Melby Daniel R. Melley  David Preissler Monica Price Suzanne Provanzana Jennifer C. Radwan Karen Randesi  Jason Vincent Julie Vogel Cherie C. Voirol Carrie Wagner Erin Walsh  
Heather Anne Broering  Jessica Fiscus  Sarah Kaufman  John A. Menicucci  LaKesha Randolph  Kelly Walsh  
experience in Minneapolis :  }ana Bruder Diana Buran  Kate Fisher Kimberly Fleming  Jennifer Kelley Erin Kelly  Laura Merritt Seth Messner  Andrea Ray Matthew Remke  Heather Waring Zane S. Way  
$ on january 3 and died of ®  Joshua S. Burick Ka~hryn Burke  Juan J. Flores Sarah M. Folsrrom  Shannon Kelly Thomas Kelly  PNer Meyer Kimberly A. Michalik  Mark Thomas Rengel Jennifer Rcnola  Jeanine Weigel Jennifer Weigel  
® AIDS on january 19th. His e  Joseph S. Burkhart Danielle Terese Burton Melissa Byerly  Ben Foos Matthew C. Ford Karen Francl  Heather Kenney Kathleen Marie Kenney Mary Clare Kenney  Megan Middendorf Jeremy Miller Lynsey Miller  Jessica Rice Allison Roberts Leanne Robinson  Gwen Weisse Anne Marie Welch Mary E. Wendell  
®  Mark Cadungog  Carrie Fuller  Charlotte Kibler  Julie M. Mirer  Tom Roderick  David Wenzke  
dedication to Notre Dame, ® @  Rachel Cain Kristina Campbell Deanna L. Cankar  · Kate Gaffney Trisha M. Garces Ronald Garcia  Kristi Kilday Molly Kilmer Toshimori Kirami  Kaycee M. Misiewicz Kelly Moore John Morgan  Robert H. Rolf Joseph Rolon Jamiko Rose  Anne B. Werring Leigh Ann West Jessica Whelan  
the Center for Social Concerns ®  Brigid Carroll  Heather G. Gausselin  JeffKioska  Christina Morgner  Sheila Roth  Christine White  
@  Sarah Cashore  Molly Gavin  Joe Knutzen  Heather J Mrosla  Marissa Runkle  William G. Whitman  
and student education has * @  Colleen Casserly Michael H. Catenacci Amy C. Chaput  Rebecca Gerben Heather Gibson Eric Giovanni  Kerry Koch Christopher Kolik Angela Koloszar  Bob Mundt Clare Murphy MaryS. Murphy  Jennifer Ryan Eva J. Rzepniewski Rachel Salerel  Carrie L. Wieneke Emily Wilkinson Russell Williams  
been invaluable. We will miss ~ @  Jonathan Chiarieri Amy Chrisrofer  Megan Glunz Celine M. Gomez  Julie Kozdras Danny Kraft  Meghan Anne Murphy Shayla Murphy  Rebeccah Sanders Jeremy A. Scarlett  JeffWincko Laurie Wincko  
®him. We assured his family 0  Erin Clary Peter Coleman Dan Colleran  Matthew T. Gorman KellyGoss Amy Granata  Chris Kramer Carol L. Kurowski Cristin M. L'Esperance  Thomas Ryan Murphy Meghan Murray Robert Murray  Timothy M. Schank Chris Schmidt Jason Schoenler  Ro,.,mary Wolohan Elizabeth Wons Chak KeiWoo  
@  Laura C. Colleton  Sarah Granger  Alice Laeger  Melissa A. Nevin  Jim R. Schueller  Maria-Valeri Wuebker  
at his funeral Uan. 25) of ®  Patrick Z. Collins  Megan A. Greene  Maureen Larsen  Sy Nguyen  David Schulte  Jeanine Wynron  
@ the prayers of our Urban 1ft  Robert Collins Katherine M. Conlon Man Cooper  Robert Grillo Amanda Jean Groner Joanna Grossa  Margaret Lennon Heather Lepeska Megan Leverence  Beth Nolan Bridger Noonan Dawn Novak  Rebecca T. Scudiero Eileen Scully Caleb Shaffer  Amy Renee Wyss Mike Yang Michelle Yarbrough  
* Plunge students and the ND ®  Carlene M. Costello Mark Counselman James Cullen  John Michael Gruver Jennifer R. Gunrzelman Richard E. Haaland  Jennifu Ligda Adam Lips MaiN. Ly  Lisa Novak Jeffrey W. Nutting Lauren L. O'Brien  Elizabeth Sheedy Rob Shorr Amy Shull  Nathan Young Sheila Zachman Man Zimmer  
*  John Cusack  Robert W. Haight  Sarah Lynch  Sarah O'Connor  Emily Silva  
community. *  Michael Cusumano Jomol Cyriac  Melissa Harraka Joan Harrington  Tim Lynch Heather MacKenzie  Mandi O'Donnell Manhew J. O'Shaughnessy  Catherine Simmons Asha Singh  
Renee Daffron  David Harris  Corinne J. Mahoney  Kevin Osborn  Laura Slicker  
David Daily  Mark Harris  Herbert Maisenbacher  Nikole Paganis  Andrea Smith  
Karen M. Damaso  Shannon Harvey  T ricia Malovey  Vishal Pahwa  Stephanie C. Smith  


@ @ 
The Center for Social Concerns recognizes the Church 
lib 
lib and Social Action (Urban Plunge) 1996 Students: 
-------------------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---·­
Friday, february 2, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS 
• fENCING 
Undefeated fencers to be tested 
By WILLY BAUER 
Spnm Wri1rr 
Unbnatnn for 1.182 days. 
Notrn Dame's fencing team travnls to Boston this weekend to faen among others the de­fPnding national champion l'nnn State. On the line is the wornnn's unpreeedented 75­rnateh winning streak and the nwn 's 12-0 record so far this SllllSOn. 
''I'm looking forward to fenc­ing l'nnn Statn. Anytime you facn the number onn team in thn nation you're going to be rnady," said coaeh Yves Auriol, who has been looking forward to this rnateh after dominating tlw competition in the prnvious two rnnnts. "On paper thny may look stronger, but on any given day anything can happen. I think they're nervous about fac­ing us." 
The best match of the meet could involve the women's foil squads. Penn State boasts the defending National Champion and a overalJ strong squad. In her way of repeating last year's performance is the Irish's freshmen sensation, Sara Walsh. Walsh places her per­fect record against the heralded Penn State team. 
Classmate Myriah Brown has proved to be a more than ade­quate number two fencer post­ing a 31-2 record. 
Captain Mindi Kalogera, who boasts a 26-8 record, rounds out Notre Dame's talented squad that faces its toughest competition so far in the young season. 

The other match-up of un­beatens is between Notre Dame's sabre squad and the All-American duo from Penn State. The strength for the men's team has been the sabre squad this season, as it owns a 12-0 record. 
Senior Bill Lester is 24-1 this season and he is not the only one with a 20-plus win season. Junior Jeff Wartgow (23-7) and freshman Luke LaValle (22-3) give the Irish a formidable 1-2­3 punch against Penn State. 
"I think it will be a good m·atch between the sabre squads," said Auriol. "Bill Lester and Luke LaValle have to fence weiJ." 
Senior foilist Jeremy Siek and senior Claudette de Bruin face tough challenges from Penn State. Auriol described the men's foil and women's epee teams of Penn State as "strong 
' teams." "Jeremy must be consistent," Auriol said of Siek who has lost only one match this season. Sophomore John Tejada has won 19 matches so far, but struggled some in the home meet, January 27. de Bruin places her 28-0 record on the line this weekend and Auriol is counting on her for four more victories. 
the Drovers 
The Drovers' music is innovative with a capacity for 
improvising and sustammg epic musical sideroads. Most 
Importantly, the Drovers are true to their musical stream of 
. "
consWelth Seamaisin 

LaFortune Ballroom FRIDAY FEBRUARY 2nd 9pm 
liTUDENT UNION BOAltD 
'fei?JieyleJJci,t,Wg_i1Uffii,i 

page 21 

The Observer/Brent Tadsen Notre Dame's fencers will tackle defending national champion Penn State this weekend in Massachusetts. 
Sophomore Anne Hoos has fenced well, in winning 26 of her 32 matches. 
"We will need better perfor­mances from the men's epee squad," said Auriol when ad­dressing the team's question marks for the upeoming meet. "Practice has been slow this week because people have been sick. We need to have good practices on Wednesday and 
•NBA 
Webber shelved for remainder of season 
By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associa1ed Press 
LANDOVER, Md. 
Washington Bullets forward Chris Webber put an end to his most frustrating NBA season by undergoing surgery on his left shoulder Thursday. 
Webber, who signed a six­year, $57 million contract 


Amulticultural festival of the arts SaturOay, feDrua~ 3 featuring poetic readings, expressive Stepan 
Center dance and inspirational sonus. 7~.m. 
T~e lestival will benelrttne loo~ pantries in Sou~ Ben~. Donations ol non-perisnable loo~ nems are app 
before the season, had been playing in pain since he dislo­cated his shoulder in a game against Golden State in December 1994. 
The third-year star appeared in only 15 games this season, averaging a team-high 23 points and eight rebounds. The Bullets were 9-6 with him in the lineup. 
Dr. Huss Warren performed the operation at the Hospital For Special Surgery in New York. Team doctor Steve Haas was also present in the operat­ing room. 
The rehabilitation process is expected to take around six months. Webber opted to have the operation so he would be healthy at the start of next sea­son. 
Webber said Saturday night, "If we mak~the playoffs and the surgery is put off until May, I may not be ready for next season, which would be hard to take." 
There was also a good chance Webber could have dislocated the shoulder again. 
"He wouldn't have been able to continue without having it fixed," said Dr. John B. O'Donnell, an orthopedic sur­geon in the Sports Medicine Center of the Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore. 
O'Donnell, who played bas­ketball at North Carolina under 

coach Dean Smith, added, "The operation would be more career-threatening for a base­
•
ball pitcher -a guy who once threw the ball 99 mph could only throw around 91 mph after surgery. But in this case, it shouldn't effect his shooting, ·passing or dribbling if he suc­
cessfully rehabilitates it." 
Webber missed 19 games last 
season after dislocating the 
shoulder while diving after a 
loose ball. 
Thursday. Everybody knows it will be a tough weekend. So far the season has gone according to plan. We'll know more after this weekend." 
Penn State will not be Notre Dame's only tough competition in Boston. Other teams travel­ing to the meet inelude Penn, Brown, Rutgers and MIT. Auriol is also trying to set up a mateh with Columbia. 

----------------------------~ ---------------~--------~-~-----­
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 2, 1996 
• HOCKEY 
Irish hit the road for two key CCHA contests 
By MIKE DAY Sports Writer 
A dubious distinction. 
An undesirable label. 
With two thirds of the season already in the books, the Notre Dame hockey team has dis­played an uncanny knack of playing to the level of their competition. And for the most part, this habit has not brought them a great deal of suc­cess. 
"We seem to play up to the level of the top teams and down to the level of some of the other teams in the league," said Irish head coach Dave Poulin. "It is a problem that we must and will correct in order to be where we know we can be." 
With CCHA playoff implications on the line, the Irish hope to shake the label once and for all this weekend when they visit Ferris State tonight before traveling to Michigan State on Saturday. 
In the midst of a six game losing streak, the 7­16-3 Flames hope to climb out of the CCHA base­ment, and at the same time, avenge a 5-4 over­time loss to the Irish. VIC goaltender Adam Lord, who was visibly shaken by the Irish faithful two weeks ago at the Joyce Center, will start at goaltender despite struggling over the past three weeks. · 
Offensively, Flames center Tony Kolozcy (15 goals and 12 assists) has emerged as one of the top newcomers in the CCHA. Forwards Mike Peron (22 points) and Chuck Mindel (21) will also be counted on to provide offensive punch for a unit that ranks second to last in the league in scoring (2.81). 
With goaltenders Matt Eisler and Wade Salzman both playing their best hockey of the season, the Irish defense, led by junior Brian McCarthy, senior Garry Gruber, freshman Benoit Cotnoir, and junior Ben Nelsen, should not be seriously challenged by the sputtering UIC offense. However, Notre Dame fans know not to take anything for granted. 
"There's no doubt that we've had problems playing consistent defense for 60 minutes," said Nelsen. "We play well for most of the game, and then one or two mental breakdowns turns out to be the difference. That's the kind of thing we have to cut down on." 
Whereas the Flames appear on the verge of burning out, the· 22-6 Spartans will enter Saturday night's contest in sole possession of first place~ Coached by the legendary Ron Mason, the winningest coach in NCAA history, Michigan State crushed the Irish 6-2 back on October 31. 
"They are well coached and extremely talent­ed, so we know we will have to play our best game against them," said sophomore left wing Steve Noble. "We cannot afford to have any mental lapses because we know they will make us pay for them." 
In his second season, MSU goaltender Chad Alban has emerged as one of the nation's top goaltenders, ranking third in the CCHA with a 
2.38 Goals Against Average. All-American candi­date Anson Carter (25 points), left wing Mike Watt (23), and right Wing Mike York lead one of the league's top offensive units. 
Notre Dame will counter with senior center Jamie Ling (30 points), freshman right wing Brian Urick (23), and junior right wing Tim Harberts on the front line. They will have to play their top game of the season to keep pace with Michigan State's explosive bunch. 
"We know that they are going to be fundamen­tally strong, so we will have to be on our toes against them," said Gruber. "We seem to have made a habit out of playing to the level of our competition no matter who our opponent is." 
It is a habit the Irish hope to break. 
~eMParo a~~~ &Pddap m~da~~&d:w.nmP ad 

The Observer/David Murphy Junior defenseman Ben Nelsen and teammates travel to East Lansing this weekend. Munn Arena is one of college hockey's toughest places to play. 
4 Goon REAsoNs To CALL THE HUDDLE FoR DELIVERY 
-

r ----------, r ----------,
55.99 DE~-S4.99 DE~L
I I I I 
Any Large 14" Pizza Only $5.99 Large 14" Cheese Pizza Only $4.99 
I I I I
The Best Pizza at the Best Price Now, That's a Deal! Cal/1-6902 Calll-6902
I I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96
-1 -1
1­

1--------------------­
s10.99 DE~L Oous~E DEAL
I 1 I I 
2 Large 14" Unlimited Topping Pizzas You get 2 Large 14" 1 item I and a 2-liter Coke Product Only $10.99 I I Pizzas for Only $9.99 I Call1-6902 
Calll-6902

I __________....I I I 
COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96 I COUPON EXPIRES 5/20/96
L L .J 
CALL THE HUDDLE AT 1-6902
• 
We'11 meet or beat any competitors coupon or deal, just call us and ask. We Deliver 7 days a week-lunch, dinner and late nite. 



SCOTT ADA!viS 
SO WE'Ll SHIP WH~iEVER IS LYING AROUND, BOOK IT A.S REVENUE AND SORT 
TT OUT LATER. 

MISTER BOFFO 
DILBERT 
I NEE.D EVERYBODY TO I-IELP IN THE. SHIPPING OEPART­t'\ENT TODAY. 
I 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 Name in spydom
1 Mean 29 Because of 
5 Brisk, in mus. 30 Kind of grant 
9 Heartthrobs 31 City on the
14 One suited to go Golden Horn 
fora walk? 33 Bartender's
16 Sky-colored accessory
blossom 35 Seek a handout
11 Dog with an from
upturned tail 36 Favor
18 Serious 37 Roman laws 
19 Slick 38 Italian love 
20Capital 
songs 22 Stage of 
41 Assn.
development 42 Vaquero's rope 
23 This one, to Ovid 44 Brought back 
25 Blossomed again 45 X'es 
ments in Chicago, Detroit and Cincinnati, will be at the

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
song 
C.S.C. on Wednesday, February 7 for a general infonna· 

2 Dumps 
tion session at 7 p.m. Individual appointments are 

3 Persevered 
available on Thursday. 


4 R.N.'s stations 13 Fellini film, with 
5 Have --about "La"oneself (seem 
distinctive) 15 Kind of cakes 
& Took in eagerly 21 Peter Rabbit's creator
7 Lecherous 24 Stevens of 
aKing Henry II "Peter Gunn" 
portrayer 2& Loudspeaker
9Someshot 28 Puts in 
1oSecretly leave 32 Keeps occupied 
11 Bo Jackson and others 34 Small choir 
12 Camp shelters 36 SE Texas city 
II Postino 7:30 Sunday Cushing Auditorium 
friday, February 2, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY HIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Be bold' Although the financial stakes are high, you will win hand' down. Challenge the authority of someone who acts unwisely. Your strong moral values make you stand out from the crowd. Going into busi­ness for yourself will prove highly rewarding. Seize an opportunity to travel! A temporary separation makes loving hearts grow even fonder. You may finally be ready to settle down with your one-and-only. 
CELEHRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Farrah Fawceu, country music star Garth Brooks, joumalist Liz Smith, novelist James Joyce. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Budget your money wisely in order to accumulate savings. Catering to an unreasonable individual will only make the situation worse. Invite friends over for a casual supper. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The emphasis now is on meeting your obligations. Avoid taking too much for granted or leaning too heavily on others. You need to take your time when working on finan­cial figures or important details. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Allow extra time for a journey, especially if traveling by car. Traffic may be heavier than usual. Do not neglect your natural talents: branch out in a new direction. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Exercise restraint when dealing with 
career and financial matters. Get the 

,. 
0 most up-to-date information before
EVER'T' PRODUCT TI1A.T 5HlPS 
u 
making key decisions. A loved

()EFORE. THE E.ND OF THE. 
one's behavior may be confusing. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You feel full of energy and ready to conquer 

MONTH GET5 COUNTED A':> 
REVE.NUE. FOR THE FISCAL 
the world. A newcomer finds your daring very appealing. Rely on an

YEAR. UNFORTUNATELY, 
THIS ONE'S 
older person's expertise when the 

WE DON'T I-lAVE 
chips arc down.
GE.TTING 

INVENTORY. 
GUM. \ \ 

37 Siren 4& Pitch 38 Underlings 47Goodbyes 
•MENU .
39 Rotary engine 51 Family girl 
Notre Dame 
40 Guesses, 54 California's informally historic Fort -­
North Dining Hall South Dining Hall Chimicalmgas BBQ Spare Ribs
41 Bats 5& Part of a coli. 43 Late bloomers curriculum 
Philly Stesk Sandwich Shrimp Poppers Beef Chow Mein Vegetables Marinara 
Saint Mary's
Get answers to any three clues 
Swordfish
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
Macaroni and Cheese Baked Potatoes 
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) People who work behind the scene' admire your style. A dormant romance could spring to life again. Protect your reputation by being di, erect. Keep your personal and pro fessionallives completely separate. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22) Avoid makin~ commitments you may not want to keep. Expand your intellectual horizons. A journey ol the mind will lift your heart and spirits. Good timing is the key to professional imd personal success. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): A busy day lies ahead. An upsurge ol confidence is indicated. Be on the lookout for opportunities to advance your career. Gambling tips are unlikely to pay off. Save you1 money for a special treat. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): Someone who performs ser­vices for you may feel unappreciat ed. Be generous with your praise Let harmony reign at home. Seek an expert's advice if concerned about a legal mauer. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan 19): Not a good day for takinl' chances. llowever, do seize a gold en social opportunity. Wise dwiet·· are likely if you emphasize practic-al concerns. 13e prepared to move wnh the times. 
AQllARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. IHt Avoid leaping back and forth fron· one project to another. Too much 1· at stake. Important details could gel lost in the shufne. Take a reali't" approach to promises. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20t Discord is possible this mornin~ Use your tal~nts as a mediator !, restore peace. New friendship.> <~r• indicated. Speak of your beliefs a111 hobbies. Your winning ways "tl not go unnoticed by an attracti1, newromcr. 
" 
• 

48 Paint thinner, for short 49 Start another hitch 50 Botanical 
apertures 52 White House nickname 
53 The river, in Juarez 55 Hardly humble 57 Bremen's river 58 Coming back strong 59 Render 60 Travelers' timesavers 61 Civil endings, in London 
DOWN 
1 "South Pacific" 
• OF INTEREST 
Tonight and tomorrow night in Cinema at the Snlte the movie "Amateur" will be playing at 7:30 and 9:45. The cost is $2. 
Cavanaugh Hall Players presents "Later Life" in Washington Hall toli.ight and tomorrow night at 8 p.m. The ticket'> are $3 and can only be bought at the door. Doors open at 7:30 p.m. 
Free Lecture: Introduction to the World of Crystalsand Stones by Backly Raska on Saturday, February 3rd at 11 a.m. Educare Center For the Arts of HeaUng body, mind, spirit, and humanity, 505 E. Jefferson, Mishawaka. 259-9900. 
On Saturday, February 3, Flip Side. the group that provides something other than the usual social scene, will be sponsoring Country and Western Dancing in LaFortune ballroom from 10 p.m. to 1 a.m. The cost Is $5 for members and $6 for non-members. Questions can be addressed to John (ND) at 4*1419 or Erin (SMC) at 284-5507. 
Mishawaka presents Experiencing the Lord's Prayer In Aramaic beginning February 6, 7~9 p.m. for 4 weeks. Call259-9900 to preregister. Fee is $25. 
Kristin Funk (grad '91) of the Passionate Lay Mls~ sloners, a year long lay volunteer program with place­


SPORTS 
page 24 Friday, February 2, 1996 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Undefeated Irish slaughter 'Cats, get revenge 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Writer 
Sweet revenge was achieved yes­terday in Eck. The women's tennis team showed Northwestern who is the top team. The Irish avenged two straight years of losing to the Wildcats, by burying Northwestern, 6-1. 
"It was really fun," responded head coach, Jay Louderback, about avenging the past two losses. "We have been working really hard, and the team has been playing well together, so we deserved the victo­ry." 
The Irish came out victorious, but they did suffer one casualty in the process. 
Senior Sherri Vitale, who plays no. 5 singles, suffered an injury to her wrist. She did compete in her dou­bles match, but was forced to retire early in her singles match. She injured it in one of her first games of the match, hitting a forehand. The status of her injury still is not known. 
Coach Louderback predicted that the key to the match against Northwestern would be the doubles matches. The Irish swept all dou­bles matches in an impressive fash­ion. Seniors Wendy Crabtree and Holyn Lord dominated their oppo­nents at no. 1 doubles. The two used a combination of finesse and power to secure a victory. Each of the two served up some aces for this match at crucial times, and came out on top, 8-6. 
Junior Erin Gowen and freshmen Jennifer Hall also captured a victory for the Irish, 8-5. Placement was the key to Gowen and Hall's victory, as the two both mastered their vol­leying technique while putting the ball out of reach of their opponent. 
The no. 3 doubles team of Vitale and freshman Marisa Velasco man­aged a victory over Northwestern's Novak and Porter. The pair each came up with some impressive serves and overpowering returns to slide past the Wildcats, 9-8. 
Crabtree at no. 1 singles, showed that she has fully recovered from her injury that occurred this past fall. She handled Northwestern's Eklund, 6-3, 6-2. 
see TENNIS I page 15 

Senior Holyn Lord was 2-0 as Notre Dame coasted past Northwestern 6-1. 

• MEN'S 8ASKETBAU 

Georgetown barely won Round 1 at Notre Dame. Will the Irish be so lucky Saturday? 
By TIM SEYMOUR Associate Sports Editor 
Led by super-soph Allen Iverson, Georgetown is one of the poster-children for re­vamped Big East basketball ­a high-octane, highlight film extravaganza that leaves its fans and opponents gasping for breath. 
This perception, though, is more illusion than reality. 
To be sure, Iverson is as exciting and explosive as any­one in the country, and the pure athleticism of the Hoyas is astonishing. But that's not why Georgetown is 18-3 over­all and 8-2 in the Big East. 
The Hoyas win because of substance, not style. 
John Thompson's troops en­joy an impressive rebounding margin of 11 boards per game over their opponents, a greater insight into their suc­cess than Iverson's brilliance, since the Hoyas are only 1-2 when he scores more than 35. 
"They have a lot of players 
see HOOPS I page 19 vs. Boise St., February 2, 4 p.m. 



Women at Watham, MA, February 3 Men at Cambridge, MA, February 4 
• Tracksters host Meyo Invitational 

see page 17 
Hockey 
vs. UIC, February 2, 7 p.m. 
Women's Tennis 
at Kansas, February 4, I p.m. 
Fencing 

Streaking Notre Dame journeys to Jersey 
By TIM MCCONN 
Sports Writer 
Where the Notre Dame wom­en's basketball team stands right now, 14-4 and 9-1 in the Big East, things are looking pretty good. 
The Irish possess a three­game winning streak, and have won eight of their nine games since the new year. All of this adds up to the best start in Irish women's basketball history. 
Going into the contest tomor­row at Rutgers, the Irish are looking to extend their win­ning streak. 
When Coach Muffet McGraw was asked if she thought things would go so well in their inaugural season in the Big East, she replied, "We thought we had a good team, and would be competitive. We didn't know what to expect from the other teams, except for Connecticut, but our goal was to finish in the top 3." 
In their previous meeting with the Scarlet Knights, on November 28, Notre Dame de­feated Rutgers 66-54. The home win came in the first­ever Big East contest for both schools. 
In that game, Katryna Gaither paced the squad with 24 points and 14 rebounds. However, the game was rather sloppy and McGraw was not exactly pleased with the over­all effort. 


The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Stacey Fields and the Irish have another goal in mind -the NCAA tournament. 
"We definitely didn't play too well last time," said the coach, who picked up her 250th ca­reer victory as a result of that game, "so we really don't have anything to be overconfident about this time." 
The important thing is that the Irish got a "W" in the win column, and have taken off since then. 
As noted by their mark in January, the Irish have been playing phenomenally. They 
see WOMEN/ page 16 
GJ.. • Fencers face Penn State 
-=·, 

see page 21 
~~ • Boise State challenge for::,::•h 



