--------~~------~----------------------------------------------·--------------------------.-., 

Tuesday, November 12, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 51 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS LIFE CouNCIL 

The Observer/Shannon Dunne Allyson Luck (center), chair of the Diversity Committee presented her committee's report during yesterday's CLC meeting. 
Plans set to examine hinging 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The Campus Life Council dis­
cussed two committee reports 
at yesterday's brief meeting. 
The Alcohol Committee plans 
to invite two 
speakers to 
address the 
council at its 
two remain­
ing meetings 
for the 
semester. Deborah 


Kigar

Hellmuth announced a plan to invite Gina Kigar, the 
• MUlTICUlTURAL BEAT 
coordinator of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, and Professor George Howard of the psychology department. The speakers will each attend a separate meeting and address the CLC about alcohol issues on campus. 
Kigar will speak on her expe­riences as coordinator and clarify some points about the Harvard binge-drinking study. Howard will be asked to speak about a class that he has__ taught to seniors. 
"I can't think of anyone bet­ter than Gina Kigar to talk about alcohol on campus," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice presi­dent of Residence Life. 
Father George Rozum said the idea of inviting speakers to address the alcohol problem "was a very constructive sug­gestion." 
In the second report, Diversity Committee chairper­son Allyson Luck said that the committee would be "working with Campus Ministry to estab­lish Masses in the dorms and at the Basilica to incorporate homilies and speakers to share their experiences and stories [of race and diversity]." 
The committee has consid­
see CLCI page 4 

Frosty the four door .... 
The Observer/Shannon Dunne 
Pranksters took advantage of the weekend's snowfall to bury an unlucky sedan parked in the 02 lot. 
• SECURITY BEAT 


Vietnamese association takes first steps Weekend's 
By KELLY BROOKS 
Assistant News Editor 
Vietnamese students have something different this semester -something of their own. The '96-'97 school year marked the birth of the Vietnamese Student Association (VSA). the campus' first officially recognized Vietnamese stu­dent group. 
"One goal [of VSA] is to promote and foster the appreciation for cultural diver­sity in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community," said co-president, Binh Huynh. 
VSA can trace its beginnings to the fall of 1995. when Vietnamese freshmen arrived on campus to find that Notre Dame did not have a Vietnamese stu­dents' club. Initially, those students held informal meetings to eat Vietnamese food and talk. 
The group became more serious about establishing a club last spring, and this fall the members have become an offi­cially recognized club that receives fund­ing from the University. 
"The main purpose is to be apolitical," said club member Val Bauduin, "We're aware of the tensions going on and are trying to concentrate on the cultural aspects and not the innuendo surround­ing Vietnam." 
"We want to introduce the culture of Vietnam to Notre Dame. And for those who are Vietnamese and have been in here [the United States] for a while, to revive the culture for them," explained club treasurer Haiquynh Pham. 
"Amongst ourselves we want to contin­ue learning about our background, espe­cially for those of us who escaped after the war. It's important to keep up with history and background as far as our roots," she continued. 

The VSA's first big event was their par­ticipation in Saturday's Asian Allure fashion and culture show. Members modeled traditional Vietnamese women's dress, the ao dai, and per­formed a candle dance. 
According to Bauduin, the ao dai is a traditional dress for women that is "unique in the sense that it is distinctly Vietnamese. No other Asian country has a dress quite like it." 
The candle dance is a symbol of peace, originating from a tradition of floating candles down the rivers in remembrance pf the dead. The dance expresses the hope for more peaceful times ahead. 
The VSA has a regular event every Thursday night beginning with Vietnamese language tutoring, taught by Father Martin Nguyen. 
"It's an informal format where stu­dents can continue to learn Vietnamese," explained Huynh. "About half [of the students] speak it at home and want to learn more, especially writing. Others were born here and forgot it or want to learn it." 
VSA has approximately 20 active mem­bers and hopes to expand. Huynh hopes Vietnam studies will become a selection in the Asian studies courses, and envi­sions the establishment of a study abroad program in Vietnam. 
"I want to stress that VSA is open to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's com­munity, not just the Vietnamese commu­nity. We have an African American member and a Caucasian member. People who want to learn Vietnamese or about the culture are welcome," Huynh said. 

snow battles turn violent 
By HEATHER COCKS Associate News Editor 
Large-scale snowball fights on the Quads, a long standing Notre Dame tradi­tion, have taken a destructive turn in recent winters, resulting in injuries and damage to dormitories. 
This past weekend provided a prime example of how such. events can rapidly get out of hand. 
"It started at 1:30 a.m. Sunday morn­ing," said Rex Rakow, director of University Security. "Officers were deployed near Zahm Hall due to problems there last year." 
Captain Dave Austin recalled "approxi­mately 150 people, possibly all students, in a large snowball fight" on North Quad directly in front of Zahm. Participants were allegedly hurling snowballs at the building itself, rather than at each other. Observers noted that the more zealous fighters were icing their snowballs, with the intent of making them significantly harder. 
"All it takes really is 10 or 12 people to get things going, and the next thing, the dorm is attacked, with windows break­ing," Austin said; Rakow reported one shattered window in Zahm Hall. 
A similar fight, possibly retaliatory, was aimed at Dillon Hall later that morning. 
"A window in Dillon was broken, and shards of glass flew into a student's chest," Rakow said. 
see SECURITY/ page 4 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Avery 
ND 


Christmas 
Prediction: By the time ~~~~~~~;­! turn thirty, malls will be 
0decorated for Christmas by late September and Husted Hoot will have a Christmas album out · titled "Send me on my 
·,J, ~ Sleigh." That's just how the season of tidings and joy is headed. Maybe it Leslie Field was Kathie Lee Gifford's Accent Copy Ediror Christmas CD that brought me to the con­clusion that Christmas commercialism has reached the point of no return. Or maybe it was Barry Manilow's. (Who could pass up the opportunity to hear about Lola's adventurous pilgrimage from the Copa Cabana to Bethlehem?) 
Whatever the case may be, artists from nearly every musical genre are coming out with their own version of "Jingle Bells" and "Silent Night." This is not necessarily bad. After all, when Air Supply sings and sells Brenda Lee's "Hockin' Around the Christmas Tree," it is a clear reminder to consumers that, with proper marketing, anyone can be successful. 
God bless America, but trying to find the classics like Bing Crosby and Andy Williams is nearly impossible. It's as if Berry has replaced Perry on the shelves. As unfortunate as this is, I have to give credit to America's musical gurus for giving the season of peace and good will a chance. 
Jimmy Buffett and New Kids on the Block are just two examples of new Christmas enthusiasm. Yes. Jimmy Buffett has come out with a Christmas album. The cheeseburger eating, pencil thin mustached, king of the beaeh has joined the ranks of pop artists with a real spirit for Christmas. And the talented New Kids on the Block made a chunk of teenage change with hit songs like " Have a Funky Funky Christmas" and "This One's for the Children." 
So what's stopping us? Nothing. We, too, can receive fame and fortune from this festive time of year. I!ere's a list of possible album titles. This is just one list, however. Other ideas can be faxed to 631-6927. (A web site is on its way.) 
10. There's No Place Like Dome for the Holidays. 
9. Oh Come, Oh Come Immanuel Kant (A favorite tune at the Philosophy Department's holiday bash.) 
8. The Carols of Carroll (not sold in stores near you-guess you'll have to go over the river and through the woods) 
7. I Saw Mommy Kissing Some guy on a Table in Bridgets 
6. Oh Little Town of Ethanol 
5. The Twelve Days of Mexican Bar: An Ode to the Dining Halls 
4.We Don't Know if There'll be Snow but !lave a Cup of Beer 
3. !lave a Spunky, Spunky Christmas With the Cheerleaders of the Fighting Irish 
2. Deck the Keg with Schlitz and Natty 
1. I'm Gettin Nothing for Christmas (Zahm hall's Christmas anthem) 
As we begin the Commercial Christmas sea­son with a mix of the old and the new, we can rest assured that the voices of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will be coming to a mall near you soon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Accent Derek Betcher Ashleigh Thompson Saskia Sidenfadan Graphics Sports Tom Roland 
Brian Reimhaler Lab Tech Production Shannon Dunne Jackie Moser Chris Uhan 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the As~odatcd Pres!!.. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

r---------------~---·--------·----------------~ ---------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 12, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Private militia armies combat Columbian guerrillas 
SAN PEDRO de URABA, Colombia  including an 8-year-old boy. Anyone  
As bodyguards in wide-brimmed hats  linked to guerrillas is a target.  
lounged nearby, their commander  ---SOUTH  Butchers accused of selling meat from  
offered a piece of his warrior's creed:  cattle stolen by rebels have been slain.  
Often the best way to treat rebel col- AMERICA  At least a half dozen relatives of rebel  
laborators is to kill them.  Caribbean Sea- leaders have been kidnapped this year.  
"You have to go in a little tough in  The sister of a rebel was murdered in  
some places," said the stocky leader,  a beauty parlor.  
who was shot in the leg during an  "We can do what the army can't.  
attack on a rebel camp six years ago.  do," said the paramilitary commander.  
"If there weren't deaths, it wouldn't be  who also is a local farmer. "For exam- 
a war."  pie, if we know where to find four  
But he's not a Colombian army offi­ unarmed guerrillas, we can kill them.  
cer. He commands a privately financed  The army has to kill them in combat."  
militia. Where guerrillas once roamed  0 Bogota  The chief agreed to diseuss his work  
freely, private armies now patrol northern Uraba, a farming region on  COLOMBIA  only if his name was not used. lie met with a Teporter at a kiosk near a farm  
Colombia's Atlantic coast near  owned by rancher Carlos Castano, a  
Panama.  founder of the unofficial "self-defense  
Rebels humiliated the military in a  forces."  
recent hit-an-run offensive that killed  Church leaders and human rights  
dozens of police officers and soldiers,  activists say paramilitaries are no bet- 
but paramilitary groups operating out­ ter than rebels. who are widely consid­ 
side the law have proved remarkably  ~~~~--------"~_;:_______  ered bandits who cast aside their left- 
effective in battling guerrillas in sever- AP  ist ideology years ago. .  

al states. "It's the state that has to provide seeurity, not an Like the guerrillas. the private units are mobile, famil-anonymous organization," said the Father Hernando iar with the terrain and sleep in the bush if necessary. David, a Roman Catholic priest in the Uraba town of 
The private armies, which operate with the military's Apartado, where rebel and paramilitary assassins kill tacit support, are bankrolled by landowners seeking pro-daily. tection against well-armed insurgents who block roads, Funeral processions for victims of violence routinely raid small towns and kidnap for ransom. file into the cemetery in Apartado, a grimy city of nearly 
Notorious in the 1980s for ties to drug traffickers and 100,000 people ringed by banana plantations. Helatives murders of leftist activists, paramilitaries remain ruth-wail and clutch at coffins. Grief-stricken, some faint and less. In late October, armed men killed six villagers, are carried away. 
Bernardin ignores impending death 
He is a man who has preached the gospel of faith all his life. Now Cardinal Joseph Bernardin is drawing on his own convictions and courage as he faces his biggest test ever -his impending death. Bernardin, 68, spir­itual leader of one of the nation's largest Roman Catholic dioceses, is dying; his pancreatic cancer has 

spread to his liver. The cardinal made the public announcement in late summer and, in October, he said he has even less time left than first expected -about six months. But in his waning days, Bernardin remains active, carrying on the projects and routines he has established in his 14 years in Chicago, tending to his flock of 2.3 million Roman Catholics. 
Dengue fever strikes Indonesia 
Dengue fever reportedly has killed 156 people and infected more than 7,200 others this year in Indonesia, and an outbreak of the mosquito-borne disease has claimed 34 lives in Vietnam's Mekong delta. Indonesia's official Antara news agency reported Monday on dengue fever in Central Java province. It quoted Slamet Haryanto, head of the regional health office, as saying the govern­ment was moving to check dengue fever and prevent more deaths. The Vietnamese Health Ministry said that in addition to the 34 deaths, more than 8,000 people in Vietnam have contracted dengue fever this year. The min­istry, in a report carried Monday in the English-language Vietnam News, said most of those who died were children. Symptoms of dengue fever~ which is carried by mosqui­toes, include high fever and nose bleeds. In severe cases, patients suffer hemorrhaging of internal organs. In Burma, the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand last year, more than 400,000 people got dengue fever, and 8,000 died, the World Health Organization estimates. 
Student 'hops' into senior project 
MIDDLETOWN, Conn. 
Ehhhhhhhh, whaddya mean a harebrained idea? Made ya smile, didn't it? Steve Broido, a theater major at Wesleyan University, spent five days last week walk­ing around campus in a big, furry, blue bunny suit to study the aetor's dilemma of having to submerge one's personality in the character's. For his senior projeet. Broido wore the costume to classes and meals, taking it off only when he was alone. lie even dressed up for late-night trips to the bathroom. "I tried to put myself on the line while being proteeted by a huge, false per­sona," Broido said. "I was locked in the suit, but peo­ple were paying attention to the bunny." Jeremy Bernstein, one of Broido's roommates, said even though he knew what his friend was doing, he still got an occasional shock. 
Cadets avoid death penalty in slaying 
FORT WOHTII, Texas 
Two former military. cadets indicted Monday in the jeal­ousy slaying of a high school girl won't face the death penalty. The victim's family wants them to sit in prison instead. David Graham, 19, and Diane Zamora. 18, could get life behind bars if convicted in the shooting death of 16-year-old Adrianne Jones. The girl was killed because of a sexual encounter she had with Graham that angered his girlfriend, Zamora, investigators said. Prosecutors won't seek the death penalty because the victim's family prefers a long prison sentence. prosecutor Mike Parrish said. Jones was found shot to death in a field outside Dallas last December. Graham and Zamora were high school seniors then; he went on to the U.S. Air Force Academy, she to the U.S. Naval Academy. The prosecutor said the couple carefully planned the killing. "They are bright -very bright," he said. "They know how to plan. think and kill." Attorneys for the defendants said they weren't surprised by Monday's developments. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 12. 
50s 
:---~----......................... H 

Tuesdat 35 18, 
FRONTS:


Friday·) ~ 37 28 
........-r ..&...&.. .......... 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
$AMCP
/ ;,1 
Pf66SUf'9 ~

Satu~day -~ ; 45 31 
H L B ESI ITIJ 0 !ZJ ~ i) L-J. U 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
~5'-"\1'""'-·./"-" ·. . 
VtaAuoo•t~Prtl., 

Anchorage 37 27 Columbus 34 17 Miami 77 64 Atlanta 52 34 Fargo 28 9 New York 39 27
4,~,~8~8 (f ~ d 
Baltimore 43 24 Honolulu 88 74 Orlando 71 52 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 38 29 Houston 77 60 Philadelphia 40 25 
Vta Associated Press Graph/CsNet 
Chicago 34 18 Los Angeles 76 59 San Francisco 76 50 
A weekly section from The Observer News Department 
~ 
Tuesday, November 12, 1996 


Today... 
• A CLOSER LOOK Ar. fiNANCIAL AID 
Today, The Observer begins a new weekly section that takes a more in-depth look at some of the topics that affect and interest students most. 
The first edition -the first in a two-part series on financial aid -features the Office of Financial Aid and the many resources that it offers to help finance the cost of a Notre Dame education. 




Office of Financial Aid: Where the help begins 
By JUSTYN HARKIN You panicked. 
'Miracles do happen in
Depanments Page Editor You realized 
Money available for financial 

S
that paying for 
this place.' ometime toward the end of -your education your senior year in high is not going to 
aid at Notre Dame
Joe Russo, 

school you received a skin-be easy. You ny little letter from the were going to director ofthe 
$67 million available for undergraduates

------------l!lllllll!llil!!llllm·1i'Jfum····:···s:c:JWvr;.:::
University of Notre Dame's need some Office ofFinancial Aid 
Office of Undergraduate help. Admissions. And like many peo-Notre Dame pie receiving that letter, you is not an inexpensive school. scholarships and grants are con­panicked. In fact, you may not The total cost of the 1996-97 sidered "gift aid." have even opened that letter at academic year alone is $25,900, The self-help category is first because you were afraid and that is not including pizza, where most students' financial that it meant rejection. The haircuts, and beer. $25,900 a aid packages begin. Borrowing, skinny letter always means year can be quite overwhelming according to Husso, is the single rejection. to any family, blue or white col-most common resource for stu­
Well fortunately for you, that Jar. dents at Notre Dame. There are letter· did not mean rejection. The Office of Financial Aid is many types of loans available, After your mother or father responsible for helping students ranging from the federally sub­fished that crumpled wad of and their families manage this sidized Stafford loan to private paper out of the trash can they cost. According to Financial Aid loans, which require payment informed you, their favorite little Director Joe Russo, "Our goal is right away. Russo cites the gov­over-achiever, of the good news to attract the best, brightest, ernment funded loans as the of your acceptance. The weeks and most diverse student body. most liberal. "A government following the arrival of that let-We want to give the student a loan is a faith based decision ter were probably spent in joy-choice -if they can't afford because an 18-year-old student 
scholarships

ful anticipation of any other Notre Dame then there is no has no credit." Notre Dame mail to come, in choice." If a student demonstrates that 
Source: Notre Dame Office of Financial Aid The Observer/Sue O'Kain 
addition to the purchasing of The basis for determining a he is trying to help himself 
cers and trustees of the ticular situation where the
every iota of Notre Dame-orient-student's financial aid eligibility through loans and work, and if University see the increase of Office of Financial Aid coulded merchandise available in depends upon merit and finan­that student still is unable to pay scholarship funding to be the help a student would be in casesNorth America. cia! need. Once eligibility for aid the remaining balance, then top priority of fundraising activi­where the student's family has
Perhaps you first received has been established, the scholarships and grants are 
ty, they are still far away from come across a financial hard­information from you local process for determining the employed. Russo stresses, how­having the financial aid needs ship which may prevent him oralumni club, or maybe it was the amount and nature of the aid ever, that there are a lot of rules for every student met. her from graduating. 
Hammes Notre Dame Book begins. Financial aid at Notre in this area. "You have to be dis­While Russo is hesitant to say "If the student has exhaustedStore catalogue that landed on Dame can be classified under ciplined [when giving out schol­that the Office of Financial Aid all the resources provided by theyour doorstep, but eventually two separate categories: self­arships]. You can't be Santa can help all students with need, work study and loan options,you received an official-looking help and gift aid. Examples of Clause. There is simply not he does mention that, "Miracles then there may be somethingenvelope from the Office of self-help are student loans and enough money for everybody's do happen in this place." A par-that we can do," Russo says. 
Financial Aid. You opened it. campus employment while need." He states while the offi-
Alternative Finances ... 
Home equity loans, retirement plans top list of methods 


By JUSTYN HARKIN from receiving a subsidized government What if you just had a brother or sister Other advantages of this type of loan Depanments Page Editor loan. Sounds like common sense, you graduate from college a year or two include lower interest rates, longer say? Well what if you are from, like ago? terms, and lower payments over most While the Office of Financial Aid does many students here at Notre Dame, a Notre Dame is expensive for every­private student loans. 
try to help all applicants, sometimes family that is t.rying to send more than body, especially for those families which Before your family can apply for a 
there simply are not enough funds to one student to college at the same time. are trying to finance two or more Notre home equity loan, the actual equity of 
give everybody the money that they need What if you have brothers or sisters who Dame educations at the same time. The the home has to be established. Usually 
for college. Coming from a family within soon will be graduating high school and $50,000 a year that it costs to send two this involves an appraisal of the home 
a high tax bracket may preclude you attending Notre Dame themselves? children to Notre Dame is expensive, and a review of the first mortgage and even for the families that do not any improvements that may have been qualify for financial aid. made upon the home or the property. An interesting an growing Once equity in the home has been estab­dynamic, according to Joe Russo of lished, your family may be qualified to the Office of Financial Aid, is that a deduct the interest, a feature of the tax lot of families are using alternative code that can indirectly help finance methods to borrow the money to your education. send their kids to college. One such Additional borrowing resources may method is to take out a home equity include your parent's IRA accounts and loan. Michael Cruise, the vice pres­insurance policies. Some retirement ident of Business Development and plans and insurance policies allow the Marketing at the Notre Dame policy holders to borrow against their Federal Credit Union [not affiliated own money as long as they pay them­with the University of Notre Dame] selves back, with interest. notes that home equity loans can be Still another resource for college used for almost anything, "a new money comes from obscure scholarships car, home improvements, or even a and contests. Every student fantasizes college education." The advantage about being eligible for that full-tuition of taking out a home equity loan scholarship that some benefactor set over using a private lender for a aside for Irish-Norwegian Americans student loan is that, in some cases, with blonde hair and freckles studying the home equity loan may be less French and Engineering, but somehow expensive in the long run. they can never seem to find it. The reason why private student While a search for scholarships such as loans are more expensive than gov­the one above will generally lead you ernment loans such as the PLUS nowhere, sometimes you might get lucky. loan, the Stafford loan, or the However, you should always be cautious Perkins loan is that private loans of "Scholarship Search Programs" which are not guaranteed by the govern­charge large fees and promise to do all ment. If the loan is not guaranteed, the work for you. These kinds of search then the lender has to adjust the services are almost always fraudulent rate of interest to cover the risk of and almost never yield results. the loan. The advantage of home But, if you still don't want to give up equity loans is that they are struc­your miracle scholarship, check out this tured to be tax deductible, which free scholarship database at http: can ultimately lead to a less expen­//www.collegeboard. sive pay back than a private loan. org/fundfinder/bin/fundfind 01. 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 12, 1996 


Liberace aids music program 
Sp~cial to Th~ Obs~rver 
Notre Dame has received a $5,000 grant from the Liberace Foundation for the Performing and Creative Arts to be applied towards scholar­ships supporting outstanding students in the music depart­ment during the 1996-97 acad­emic year. 
"We are grateful to the Liberace Foundation for its support of Notre Dame student musicians over the years," said Father Edward Malloy, University president. "It has enabled promising artists to 

Security 
continued from page 1 
"I was just standing in the middle of the hallway watching [the snowballers outside] when all of this glass came crashing down on me," Mark Rincon, the injured student , said. 
"People from our dorm came running in and they said, 'Hey, look at you!' I looked down and sure enough I was all bloody," Rincon shared. 
Security took him to the St. Joseph's emergency room where his injuries were found to be minor. 
"They brushed the glass out, and I'm just bandaged up," the Dillon junior said. 
In addition, two police oflicers sustained minor injuries in their attempts to control the ambush outside Zahm Hall. 
"In one case, the oflicer was trying to stop a participant from throwing a snowball at the 

Sarah-A late but loving birthday wish. Happy 19th! 

Love, Mom, Dad, Andrew and Anne 

take advantage of the intense individual attention and superb preparation for gradu­ate programs which are among our music department's most notable strengths." 
Since 1990, the Liberace Foundation has given almost $50,000 in scholarship grants to students in Notre Dame's music department. 
The most recent Liberace Foundation grant to Notre Dame is one of 4 7 awards totaling more than $200,000 which the foundation has given to schools during the current academic year. 
building," Austin stated. "It was icy, and they collided and slid to the ground, at which time she was struck in the neck with either a knee or an elbow." 
He added that, although the oflicer is reportedly doing well, she is required to wear a neck brace. 
Some police equipment was also unaccounted for after the cessation of the snowball fight, "including a two-way radio. We'd like to get that back," Rakow said. 
Both he and Austin, in addi­tion to Rincon, expressed their disdain for the fights which develop into full-scale bombard­ments of campus buildings. "It just seems that lately they've been getting so out of hand," Austin said. 
Agreed Rakow, "If students want to have a little snowball fight, there's no problem with that, but when you have· people attacking each other and destroying property, that's when people get hurt." 

God gives each 
personone lifetime. What are you doing with yours? 
Have you considered 

THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 631-6385 
The late pianist and show­man Liberace established the foundation in 1976 to provide scholarships for the arts. Since then, it has provided more than $3 million in scholarship grants for outstanding stu­dents and artists enrolled in over 80 schools and arts pro­grams. Funds for the scholar­ships are generated by dona­tions to the Liberace Museum, which houses Liberace's cos­tumes, exotic cars, pianos, stage jewelry and various col­lections. The museum is one of the three largest tourist attrac­tions in Las Vegas. 
CLC 
continued from page 1 

ered asking the Office of Residence Life to issue a state­ment outlining the University's role in racial and sexual harassment situations. 
In an effort to encourage minority enrollment, the com­mittee plans to examine the structure of Freshman Orientation weekend and look at ways to incorporate speak­ers and programs. 


Panelists set to discuss Catholic church's future 
Special to The Observ~r 
"Visions of the 21st Century Catholic Church: Searching for Common Ground" will be the topic of a panel discussion on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Four panelists will be involved in this "brainstorming ses­sion" that draws its theme from the recent Common Ground effort initiated by Chicago's Cardinal Joseph Bernardin. 
Panelists include Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall; Father Brian Daley, a member of the 

Theology faculty who also serves on Cardinal Bernardin's Common Ground committee; Professor Alfred Freddoso of the Philosophy faculty and Sister Lourdes Sheehan, director of the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). 
The Notre Dame chapter of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes (FCA) is sponsoring the discussion. FCA hopes to sponsor a similar panel dis­cussion featuring student pan­elists sometime in February. Any student interested in serv­ing on the panel should con­tact Ken Milani at 631-7324. 

I 

The ability to s.C:t a health plan ofyour choice is one ofthe benefits ofbeing a Notre Dame employee. This is an important decision. And to make this decision you need as much information as possible. 
That's why Saint Joseph's Medical Center, through the Select Health Network, wants you to know the only way you can make sure we are your hospital ofchoice is by selecting either Family Health Plan oflndiana or CIGNA. 
Why is this important? Because Saint Joseph's Medical Center has served people like you throughout Michiana for over 100 years. Our tradition ofcare is second to none. And Saint Joseph's provides a full continuum ofquality health care services to serve virtually any heald1 care need. For example, our cardiology department has one of the most successful records in the country. The obstetrics unit at Saint Joseph's features the most modern, fully-equipped birthing suites (LDRPs) in the area as well as a state-of-the-art neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Our cancer program is likewise nationally renowned. And the Medical Center's CARE-accredited pain and rehabilitation programs have helped hundreds ofMichiana residents successfully get back on their feet, back to their jobs and back to a normal life. 
Ofcourse, there are many other reasons why the people ofMichiana prefer Saint Joseph's Medical Center. So make sure that you have access to the broad range ofSaint Joseph's Medical Center services. When it comes time to choose your health plan, select Family Health Plan oflndiana or CIGNA. 
A Saint Joseph's'tJ'Medical Center 

80 I E. LaSalle Ave. • South Bend, IN 466 I 7 A Member of Saint Joseph"s Care Group and the Holy Cross Health System 
©Saint Joseph's Medical Center-1996 
Notre Dame employees 
You have a choice in health plans. To designate Saintjoseph sMedical Center asyour prejen"ed hospital select either Family Health Plan of Indiana or CIGNA. 
Tuesday, November 12, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
• STUI.lENT ACTIVITIES BOARD



Grads tell of career and faiDily balancing Activities set through Christmas 
coordinated by Diversity time and in the same place.

Also, assistant Chairwoman Bronwyn Entertainment/Recreation McAuliffe, and funded by SAB. chairwomen Gretchen Moore 
According to the board, and Lori Riebe are planning an
director set to 

Thursday's performanc·e all-campus card tournament should be "both educational for Dec. 19. Moore and Riebe 
and entertaining." have received helpful informa­At Tuesday's meeting, SAB tion from a Notre Dame stu­


step down 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
continued plans for second dent group who sponsored a 
News Writer 
semester activities and con­card tournament last year. firmed events scheduled for Final details are yet to be 
The Saint Mary's Student 

the remaining weeks of this determined. 
Activities Board continues its semester. Current Assistant Director of efforts toward quality enter­SAB's "80's Weekend" is set Student Activities Rachel 
tainment and programming 
to kick off on Dec. 6. The Teyner will be stepping down 
with a performance by Jack 

weekend begins with Friday's due to a job transfer in her 
Gladstone this Thursday at 
lunch in the dining hall where family. SAB, with the help of4:30p.m. in Haggar Parlor. 
a disc jockey will be playing the Student Activities Board,Gladstone, a Blackfoot Indian students' favorite 80's tunes will be reviewing and evaluat­and direct descendant of Chief from 11 a.m. -1 p.m. ing applicants to fill the futureRed Crow, combines his talents 
Beginning at 7 p.m. on vacancy.
of song and storytelling to 
Friday evening, SAB will be Members of the board havecommunicate the heritage of 
showing "The Breakfast Club" received copies of the resumesAmerican Indians and explain and "Sixteen Candles" in of the applicants, which they
the role they play in shaping 
Carroll Auditorium. The will review before attending
American culture. 
movies will shown again on luncheons to meet the candi­Gladstone.'s appearance was 
Saturday night at the same dates. 


PLEASE RECYCLE THE OBSERVER 
By ERIKA WITTORF 
News Wri.rer 
Many women, at some point in their lives, ask themselves this question: After I get married, will I have to leave my job when 
I have children? 
Two former
Saint Mary's students, Janet Powers Jepsen and Felicia Pilon Rice shared their answers to this question in a lecture yester­day evening. 
"When you 
are between the ages of 18 and 28, perspectives and priorities in a young woman's life are constantly 
'Life at Saint Mary's 
was easier with a child because my situation had changed and somehow I was more motivated to succeed., 
Felicia Pilon Rice 

changing," Jepsen said, while speaking alongside her five month-old daughter. 
The 1990 Saint Mary's gradu­ate shared her experiences of balancing career with family. Early after college, she explained, her education and her occupation were prioritized: She pursued a master's in phys­ical therapy at Northwestern University before devoting three years in the work force. 
But then a marriage and her daughter Madeline's birth changed her life in ways she had not anticipated, Jepsen told the audience. 
Presented with numerous dif­ficult decisions, the 1990 Saint Mary's graduate eventually con­eluded that her best choice was to stay home with her daughter. 
Rice, the second speaker, graduated in 1992 with a degree in Biology. Marrying and having her first child during her junior year enabled her also to reestablish her priorities. 
"Life at Saint Mary's was easier with a child because my situation had changed and somehow I was more motivat­ed to succeed," she offered. 
R i c e explained that having her child helped her to ascer­tain that she wanted a col­lege degree and also a 
career. Using those motiva­tions, she graduated from Saint Mary's and received certifica­tion as a medical technologist. 
Currently a mother of four children, Rice chose to later give up that career goal to stay home with her children. 
Both Rice and Jepson said that they never regretted forfeit­ing their careers to spend more time with their children. 
"I believe my child is a cher­ished gift from God," Jepson said, as Rice nodded her head in agreement. Both added that attaining their education made them better mothers. 
"Integrating Families and Careers," was the second part of a lecture series called "Then and Now." 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad 

otre Dame Forum on Academic Life 
"Investing in Centers of Excellence" and Engineering on the Cutting Edge" 
SPEAKERS: 

therine O'Brien O'Keeffe (English) es F. Kulpa, Jr. (Biological Sciences) 
Dear Erin, 
©i1!1rr flafk!la@ fNl®~ g®rr<J®W ®arrfl $laoo~ ~® flafk!la® $100'gWi1®~gg 
Happy 21st Birthday 
Love, Mom, Dad, Kevin, Michael, Justine, Tommy, & Elizabeth 



Auditorium 
sponsored by the Faculty Senate all are welcome! 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 12, 1996 
U.S. veteran uncovers 







biography 
pope's decision to enter the
WWII 'Death Railway' 
priesthood in his 20s put him in 
By PATRICK McDOWELL 
Associated Press Writer 
HELLFIRE PASS, Thailand 
An hour's drive from the infa­mous Bridge on the River Kwai, a lone man hacks through thick jungle to uncover the old rail line that is synonymous with one of World War II's worst atrocities. 
Hod Beattie has spent two years carving through despair­ing terrain with machete and chain saw, part of a plan to honor thousands of Allied pris­oners of war who died clearing the same ground a half-century ago. 
"There are some people who think I'm crazy," Beattie acknowledges. "But I don't care what they think. I care what those men think." 
"Those men" are the 12,000 American, Australian, British, Dutch and other POWs who perished as slave laborers building the notorious "Death Railway" for their Japanese captors through steaming, dis­ease-ridden jungle. Perhaps 100,000 conscripted Asians also died. 
They died of starvation, dis­ease, physical exhaustion or murder at the hands of guards whose brutality increased with pressure to finish the line. 
The line supplied a Japanese army in Burma, snaking through 260 miles of hilly, vir­gin jungle cut by 60,000 POWs and 200,000 Asian laborers using primitive hand tools. 
Uneconomical and unsafe, the railway was closed shortly after the war. The rails were 


AP/Carl Fox 
sold for scrap. The rail bed dis­appeared under creeping ivy, bamboo and trees. 
Beattie, 48, is bringing part of the line back to view with the hope more people can see it and remember what bitter sur­vivors call a "forgotten war." 
The Australian army veteran and civil engineer has a special connection with the railway. He is superintendent of two Allied war cemeteries in the Thai town of Kanch.anaburi, where most of the POW dead are buried. 
Three trains a day still cross an iron bridge over the Kwai river in Kanchanaburi. The suf­fering of the POWs who built it was immortalized in the film "The Bridge on the River Kwai." Some 1 million tourists a year visit the bridge. 
"To most people, the Bridge on the River Kwai is the Death Railway," Beattie says. ' 
contact with women in a way that priests who entered semi­.........,..•,... the .nary in their teens did not 1\().uo.J~. and it experience. In the book, John into English Paul said that was not a prob­
languages. The lem for him. A.sso~:.iat;ed Press obtained a "Maybe someone must have co,py:MlJhtla:v,,+'·:·:-·mrw reckoned that if a youth with 
<·· •• · · · · · •.· . · 1l'ad a variety of such clear religious inclinations jobs as a young man, including did not enroll in a seminary, it work in:..an amateur theater meant there were other loves *'~~oupe __ ~d a stint as a quarry or predilections. In tmth, I had '"work~u·. (le studied for the many female schoolmates and, ·· priesthood during the height of as busy as I was in school the­World War li and was ordained ater, I had ample possibilities Nov. l, 1946, at 26. of meeting young men and 
. have said that the women. 


U.N. reveals child labor figures 
By CAROLYN HENSON  ing in Asia, 80 million in Africa  Hansenne said child labor only  
Associated Press Writer  and 17.5 million in Latin  perpetuates an endless cycle of  
America. It called for a new  illiteracy and poverty.  
GENEVA  international accord banning  "We all know that ... many  
From the brothels of Asia to  the harshest forms of child  efforts over the years will be  
the construction sites of Egypt,  labor: slavery, prostitution and  required to eliminate it com­ 
nearly twice as many children  work in hazardous industries.  pletely," he said. "But there  
are working full time in devel­ Only 49 U.N. members rati­ are some forms which are intol­ 
oping countries as previously  fied a 1976 child labor conven­ erable by any standard. These  
thought, the International  tion; some nations said its limits  deserve to be identified,  
Labor Organization said  on paid work were too broad.  exposed and eradicated without  
Tuesday.  ILO Director General Michel  further delay."  
The latest calculations from  
the U.N. labor agency show that  
250 million 5-to-14-year-olds  
are employed -half of them  
full time -up sharply from  
earlier estimates of 73 million  
full-time child workers.  
The new figures come after  
in-depth surveys and interviews  
in numerous countries.  
Previous estimates were based  
almost solely on official statis­ 
tics.  
The ILO report found nearly  
153 million children are work­ 




''The Race Issue at Notre Dame: Who's the Victim?-Phase II'' 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 12, 1996 page 7 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran 
Managing Editors Patricia Carson Tom Roland 

News Editor ... . ............ Brad Prendergast Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman 
Accent Editor ______________________ , ___Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
Business Manager Matt Casey 
Advertising Manager ........................•... Ellen Ryan Ad Design Manager .....,. ..__________ ,.,.,. ...... Jed Peters 
Production Manager.. ..................... Tara Grieshop Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre 
Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion ofeither insritution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­torials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accem Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lerrers and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and to al\ readers. The free expression of varying opinions through ~etters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production General Information 
Observer Phone Lines 

631--4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4 541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631--4543  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Office Manager  631-7471  
631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• THE MIGHTY OAK 
Rivers should flow free of human interference 
There is a river in Missouri called the Osage. It winds its way through the southern half of the state from its gene­sis in the Oklahoma hills, joining the mud-stained Missouri river near the center of the state. 
The Osage carved its way down through the limestone of the Ozark Highlands over millions of years, evolv-
Sean O'Connor 

ing in an intimate association with the plants and animals of its watershed. 
The paddlefish, a fish of ancient lin­eage, is a denizen of the big rivers of the American heartland, the Osage among them. One population of this primitive fish developed the instinct of migrating. to the upper reaches of the Osage each spring in order to breed. This behavior is encoded in the genetics of these pad­dlefish; their instinct allows them to breed only in the waters of their Iongfa­thers, nowhere else. 
In the 1930s, the U.S. Corps of Engineers constructed Bagnell Dam on the upper Osage, drowning the spawn­ing grounds of the paddlefish under Lake of the Ozarks. 
Now the paddlefish, a threatened species, ascend the Osage each spring, driven by instinct, only to find their drive blocked by a wall of concrete. They cluster lackadaisically below the dam, unable to override their genetics and breed in what remains of the river. In an effort to maintain the population, the Department of Natural Resources gathers the perplexed fish from below the dam and breeds them artificially. The fry are raised in fisheries and released into the river, but they are unchanged in their mission to breed on the upper Osage at maturity. Essentially, the Osage population of the paddlefish depends on the continued prudence of a government agency for its survival. 
This story is one of many that illus­trate the environmental havoc wrecked by dams. Rivers are dynamic systems which influence the surrounding land as well as their own living communities. The impediment of their progress can have devastating effects that are not always immediately obvious. 
The Aswan High Dam, completed on the Nile in the 1960s, created Lake Nassar, providing flood control and irri­gation water for the Nile valley. However, the famous layer of silt brought to the fields of the valley by the annual flood, the very phenomena upon which ancient Egyptian civilization was founded, was captured behind the dam. The fertility of the Nile fields was slowly sapped and irrigation , combined with the lack of the flushing action of the flood, caused salinization to occur in the soil. Acres of fertile agricultural ground were ruined while the reservoir itself quickly filled with silt. Adding to the debacle, the Nile Delta, starved of the annual influx of sediment, is being erod­ed by the wave action of the Mediterranean. 
The construction of dams for the ful­fillment of human wants, while arguably necessary, definitely has profound envi­ronmental effects. Lack of foresight such as that exhibited by the Aswan project stands out as an example of industrial­ization smothering common sense. Another example is the extensive impoundment of the Columbia river sys­tem of the Pacific Northwest. 
Migratory salmon that breed in the Columbia tributaries, important eco· nomic resources as well as entities with intrinsic worth, have suffered drastic declines because of the Columbia dams. Fish ladders and captive breeding fail to uphold the majesty of the salmon as they struggle to survive in their adulter­ated surroundings. 


In yet another case, western Tasmania, described as "one of the last great temperate wildernesses on earth," saw the despoiling of some of its beauty 
'The power of an unfet­
tered river is a tonic for the soul as well as a require­ment for a healthy ecosystem and cannot be compromised to monotonous artificial lakes.' 
in the 1960s when a state government scheme dammed one of its turbulent rivers and flooded the unique Lake Pedder. 
A little-studied aquatic ecosystem was destroyed, virgin temperate rain forest was cleared, and a formerly-roadless land was opened to the vagaries of man and the gasoline engine. Fortunately, devoted members of the Australian pub­lic reacted with outrage and the con­struction of more dams was curbed. Now this expansive stretch of twisted mountains veined with swift rivers is preserved as national park, scarred only by the Lake Pedder project. 
The preservation of the wild splendor of our remaining free-flowing rivers should be a most pressing concern. The power of an unfettered river is a tonic for the soul as well as a requirement for a healthy ecosystem and cannot be com­promised to monotonous artificial lakes. 
Although many of our rivers have already been strangled, the proper man· agement of the hydroelectric dams which shackle them can limit the amount of harm done to the environ­ment. This was recognized in October in a landmark decision by the U.S. Department of the Interior. The hydro­electric dams on the Colorado river of the American west will now be managed in such a way that precedence is given to the ecological health of the river rather than to the power needs of west­ern consumers. 
The Colorado River, the victim of wild fluctuations in water flow since the com­
pletion of the Glen Canyon Dam in 1963, has suffered a long decline in ecological health. The dam has tamed the Colorado's tempestual flood and strained the mud that made its waters red, causing beaches and backwaters in the canyon to gradually wash away when unreplenished with silt. An exper­imental flood released in March 1996 re-nourished these beaches and carved new backwaters, creating habitat for endangered desert pupfish. These results, the culmination of a study dat­ing back to 1991, led to the decision to rework management practices at the Glen Canyon Dam hydroelectric facility. 
This measure is an encouraging precedent for dam operation in the United States. Its logic is expected to influence the operation of other dams around the country. Perhaps it is a sign that certain authorities have recognized the overriding importance of entire ecosystems relative to the materialistic concerns of a single species. 
The tragic environmental record of dams might be partially remedied. There could be hope for species like the paddlefish, Pacific salmon, and desert pupfish if the U.S. government takes the lead and institutes further environmen­tal regulations on existing dams and slows the proliferation of new ones. We must fight to preserve the aesthetic and ecological value of the world's rivers, and this regulation appears to be a move in that direction. 
Sean O'Connor is a senior Arts and Letters major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Men stumble over the 
truth from time to 
time, but most pick them­
selves up and hurry off as if 
nothing happened." 
-Winston Churchill 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

/UHCN rMHACI<ING A 
OIUNK OF COlJl3, I 
{£TIN 711& ZONe ... 
'\ 




ACCENT

page 8 Tuesday, November 12, 1996 
<Dnce Clipon cAn C£n<CA~... An Insider's Guide to Medical School 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
Accent Litorary Critic 

H
elpful and specifically geared t.owards the co!le~e studm~t, "Medical School AdmiSSIOns: .,.../1 he Insider's Guide" (Mustang Publishing, $12.95) is among the best books available on the mar­ket today that details the medical school admissions process and how to get in. 
Written by thrne medical school graduates, thn book is unique because of the firsthand experiences of the authors themselves and their commons sense approaches to pre­medical preparations, MCAT study tips, and all of the other questions usually assoeiated with applying to medical school. Although strongest in its handling of the application process itself, "The Insider's Guide" also devotes a fair amount of time to planning undergrad uatc study and dealing with the Medical College Admissions Test; study tips, preparation t1~chniques, and time planning abound. 
Emphasizing the importance of the MCAT while dealing with the test itself, "The Insider's Guide" incorporates the test into its timetable of important dates, a calendar stretching from junior through senior year of collngn that provides a month-by-month break­down of when to review for the MCAT, when to collect letters of recommendation, and when to bngin the admissions process with prospective schools. With an entirn chapter dedicated to com­posing the perfect medical school essay, "The lnsidnr's Guide" offers 50 sample essays written by students accepted to Cornell, Johns Hopkins, Yale, Harvard, Columbia, 
and other top schools. Offering critiques of authorship, proofreading and style, the authors address the pros and cons of writ­
ing conservative and safe essays vs. creative or "weird" ones and explain the pitfalls of apologetical, egotistical and boring writing. The book's strength 
comes from the essays that illustrate each exam­ple: numbered from one to 50, each essay is a glimpse into the diverse experiences and writing 
styles of students accepted into some of the nation's top medical schools. Some of the book's most helpful hints are ones 
that many readers may not have been aware of; among them, the importance of stressing clinical practice and research and showing an 
interest in serving segments of the population that generally do not have access to medical care. 
One helpful element of the book (at least for those nervous about the interviewing process) is a list of sample interview ques­
tions ranging from the expected "!low do you know that medicine is for you?" to the more pointed "What do you know about hospices, HMO's or PPO's?" Besides reviewing interview basics about presentation and composure, "The Insider's Guide" talks specifical­ly about who does the interviewing at medical schools and what parts o 
the application they arc likely to focus on. 
Also included in the book is a list of the top medical schools divided into groups ranging from "Most Competitive" to "Very Competitive" to "Good," and a roster of the nation's best hospitals as ranked by U.S. News and World 
Report. Completely revised and updated, "Medical School Admissions: The 
Insider's Guide" is an exceptionally good addition to the library of any 
prospective medical student. 
'' 


By SUSIE SOHN 

ld bncome c Walden : No longer of his car, GirzonP wa bill. Sound like a min that Girzone has bee such as Dostoycvsky a1 
Girzone's book, "Jm is an easy read, with i for human beings. 
oshua's journey in a 1 where he helps a pro: two young black men their own successful f1 Satanic cult, saving n invisible influences of 1 Joshua even r,ncoun rebuilding a poverty-~ range urban redevelc 
, cultural center~ a mosque, a synago1 .Joshua, which mea to Earth; he is Je 
rn1''"11rn to help reco gets a sense o ready with an 
c llcbrew or Muslim 
I lis encounter with 1 snrves to reveal more • sr.innce rather than pr entist who cxpcrienc£ tions and her passion f 
On the back cover "Inspiration" rather tr There are fnw literar• 
characters in uj, 

The OtheJt' C\Jt'eat AmeJt'ican Pastime: 
BEERC\AMES 
By MIKE McMORROW Accent Literary Critic 

pparently, one of the great literary works of our time, "The :omplete Book of Beer Drinking Games," has been so success­ul that the authors have written a sequel, Beer Games 2. No doubt that many college students will, or have, had a lot of fun experimenting with these suggestions for a good time. But when in a state of sobriety (or close enough to it), reading this book is quite the campy experience. And at only $8.95, take note! YOU could 
ve the eternal admiration of the very lucky SYR date who is the 
recipient of this treasure. 

Holding this book up to formal criticism would only provide the 
authors, Andy Griscom, Ben Rand and Scott Johnston, with another 
to satirize, so I won't even attem}Jt it. But I will say that out of 
I the possible books that could ever be written which either 

• WEB SITE OF THE WEEK 

Tal~e This Job Download I
~·m!;@.!~:::::::;·· 
By JASON HUGGINS World Wide Web Correspondent 

re you thin~lng about your car~er plans ~.fter_ ..gr···a___ d~·a·t·io_n_? If not, yo_u
months until May to come up With somethmg that wtll please he bank that loaned you $100,000 so you could come to Notre 
For decades and generations of college students, the annual search for jobs had been branded one of college life's least enjoyable experiences. All memories of disappointing trips to Career and Placement, seemingly · · with advisors and endless hours spent leaimg throu~~Jl jobs picked up on "Career Day.,. 
But now, relief has arrived for students who want aJ4"» :!UlCIJ 
or comment upon g games, would have to be one of the better ones. 
The framework of the book consists of descrip­tions of various drinking games put on a "boot factor" scale ranging from one to five. The higher the boot factor, the more likely you arc to get sick. 
My personal favorite is the game "Beer Hunter," which parodies the Russian Roulette scenes in the movie "The Deer Hunter." If you're thinking, like I was at first, "Gee, I'm not so sure that those intense scenes are really appropriate for parody, much less a parody for the purpose of inventing a drinking game," then relax, because it's worth compromising your standards. Read for yourself the essence of "Beer Hunter," but let's just say that a good shower is a necessity after playing this crazy game. 
Other beer guzzling pasttimes of varying "boot factors" include the nursery-rhyme/beer on head favorite called "Muffin Man," (boot factor 1); the TV junkie tributes of "Chug Boat" and "Hi, Bob" (boot factor 2's); and the tongue twisting "Fuzzy Duck." 
Feeling brave? "In Boot Factor Four games, there are no winners, 
ing g ente tioncd, 
even inte ter word game descr 
words for terms, cha (Number 0 
Linebacker, 
game And 

looks "V'U<OCCI,UI­
or how to rmd that job. Thanks to the wonders of modern once-agonizing process of finding the ultimate position Is now as simple as Internet. 
One. web that will help you is StudentCenter.com (www.studentcenter sm~ stuaEtllts.·.• Cal\ bel~ themselves fh1d everything they need to know IatHl1tllf ~.b.e · olest ~mploymf!nt positions. From the first step of
1 
-.·--..,-, appropri11tely for interviews, StudentCenter.com takes sttldeDII sren~n1v·smn tour of the career~planning and job-search process. can be a time-intensive scavenger hunt," ""' 1,...,..,. .t'rE~sl<lent of .. · . "But it doesn't necessarily th1tut nourinil thrm1ul1 uw•"a.~ou directories,. students can finally 
------------~----~------------------~~·----~--------~--~---­
:ACCENT
Tuesday, November 12, 1996 
page 9 

~shua and the City~~: l Modern Message 
These include "Beer Pong" and ey claim "is so popular on cam­more accu­
intramural Finally, for ruly, well, tic. there the Boot Five games. 'r yourself -­not pretty 
the drink­es are as g to read about as the aforemen­


there are some amusing and mt -no, maybe clever is a bet­
\ intermixed chapters between ions including lists of alternative ·unk," a glossary of drinking :teristics of a "classic bar," Good jukebox with Sinatra... 'ne?) and the introductory "beer 
the "Beer Curriculum," which e Biology 150: The Anatomy of ddition, gaming experts will 
' Is to Drink To," "Perfecting the 

anager predicted that Father Joseph G. unstocked and mostly unread books lassies, and he installed them in thirteen ;;tores. where they immediately became 
forced to sell his books from the trunk s finally able to pay his $10,000 printing Lcle? Possibly so, especially considering n compared to great Russian novelists 1d Tolstoy. ;hua and the City," is a book of ideas. It nteresting thoughts on God and his plan 
irzone relates these ideas through 
eighborhood of an unnamed inner city, 
titute find a new home and life; helps 
targets for gangs and drugs, to start 
rniture repair business; and exposes a 
any of its followers from the evil but he devil. 
ges a billionaire to share his fortune by ;tricken neighborhood through a wide­ipment program that includes houses, 
s. and places of worship for all religions gue and a church. hs "Jesus" in Hebrew, is Christ come 
us approaching the modern world with 
struct it. Through Joshua's deeds, the 
who this man is: a benevolent Jesus, encouraging word and able to speak in tongue if the occasion permits. 
genetic engineering student, however, 
1bout Joshua's opinion of the dangers of oviding any profound portrayal of a sci­~s conflict bwetween moral considera­
r genetics. , "Joshua and the City" is labeled an fiction or literature, and rightly so. 
merits to this book. The one-dimen­shua in the City" first serve to exempli­
!'ower Chug," and "Beer--The Social Lubricant." The authors include an introductory chapter in which they con­vince the reader that they are not part of a conspir­acy teamed with some sort of beer company alliance where all would profit from more people consuming mass quantities of beer, and even include a gigantic public service-like warning against drinking and driving. They were just ordi­nary college students who have now settled down with a wife and kids. I hope. The picture on the back makes you wonder if that's possible. I mentioned before that this might be the best book dealing with beer drinking games possible. But if you check this book out, please don't try to set 
any records ...for my sake. 
BellydaV\ce...-s bewa...-e!! I LaFo...-tl.-\1-'\e Ball...-oom betweeV\ 7-9 p.m. is ...-1.-\mo...-ed to be the hot spot fo...­WedV\esday "'ight. Look fo...-AcceV\t Special EveV\t cove...-age to follow ... 

• 
fy Joshua's power to bring people together, but exist merely as an audience for Joshua's sermons at the end. 
When the prostitute first meets Joshua, he invites her to accompany him. "Walk with me, I will protect you," he plainly assures her. Charlene, the prostitute, is so easily won over by his "overwhelming kindness" that she follows him to a park, where she spots a sick friend, Jana, who happens to be mar­ried to a billionaire. When Joshua heals Jana with the touch of his hand, she immediately becomes lively and well enough to invite Charlene to come live with her and her rich husband, and then later finances Charlene's education. 
Description of character interaction is simplistic; prostitutes, kids in the ghetto, and drug addicts are too easily won over by Joshua's kind words and smile, and throughout the book, Joshua's purpose becomes to proselytize to his newly won friends. 
The ultimate message that Girzone seems to want to relate through Joshua is the issue of the separation of church and state, and increasing secularization and resultant demoraliza­tion of the city and society. Joshua relates this belief in one long shot, at the culmination of the book, through a speech that he gives to members of Congress about the "dreadful but unseen war" in which society is involved. 
" ... Powerful forces have been at work in this country and throughout the world to divorce God from his creation ... With God gone, morality can now be determined by polls or by the wishes of the people. Rights can no longer be considered as coming from God ...The right to life no longer comes from God. It comes from a decision of the court.," writes Girzone. 
The simple incidents told in "Joshua and the City" may reflect lucid stories told in the Bible -both are well-inten­tioned, offering guidance to the characters as well as the read­er. However, Girzone's book as a novel is erroneous, and comparing his writing to Dostoyevsky's or Tolstoy's is unthink­able. · 
...

Nobody referred to the "good book" as a novel either, though, and so with all its literary shortcomings, "Joshua and the City" is a decent read. It is an easy inspiration, if you are willing to believe in its ideas. 
us DQ 2¥. & &. c 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 12, 1996 



Sabres edge Panthers in OT ot Canucks top 
By STEPHEN SOBEK 
Associated Press Writer 
BUFFALO, N.Y. 
Getting the puck to the net is­
n't something that comes natu­
rally for the Buffalo Sabres. 
Yet to outshoot an opponent 
this season, they outshot 
Florida in the third period and 
overtime to beat the Panthers 
3-2 Monday night. 
"To score on the net, you've 
got to shoot the puck," said 
Buffalo defenseman Jay 
McKee, who had two assists in 
the game. "That's something 
we were not doing so much in 
the first period." 
The Sabres have been out­
shot 523-378 in their 16 games 
while posting a 7-8-1 record. 
But Monday night, Buffalo 
outshot the Panthers 11-7 in 
the third period and 3-0 in 
overtime. 
The Sabres had gone the first 
15 minutes of the game without 
a shot on goal. The Panthers 
outshot them for the game, 31­

Classifieds 

27. 
Donald Audette scored two goals for the Sabres, including the game-winner with 58.7 seconds remaining in overtime. It came after Florida goal­tender Mark Fitzpatrick fell on his stomach saving a Brian Holzinger shot. 
Audette skated in and slid it past Fitzpatrick while he was down. 
"As soon as I saw Brian was going for the net, I just rushed there," Audette said. 'The re­bound came up in the air, and I just waited until it was on the ice.... I knew it was in right away." 
Randy Burridge also scored for the Sabres, who snapped a two-game losing streak. 
Radek Dvorak and Ed Jovanovski both scored for the Panthers, who remained atop the Atlantic Division with a 10­2-4 record after having a two­game winning streak snapped. 
Audette had also scored the game-tying goal at 12:23 into the third period when he took the puck in the slot, skated to the left of the goal and bounced the puck off Florida's Gord Murphy and past the downed Fitzpatrick. 
"We just let (the Sabres) break into the game," Fitzpatrick said. "We had a let­down in the third period after playing solid hockey for the first two." 
Jovanovski's goal for Florida came with just 16.5 seconds remaining in the second pe­riod. 
Hasek's stick was knocked away behind the net. Rob Niedermayer sent the puck fly­ing from the right faceoff cir­cle, where Jovanovski directed it past Hasek's left leg as the goalie fell to the right. 
Florida struck first 16:53 into the first period. Dvorak took a pass from Brian Skrudland and shot it to Hasek's glove side, falling to the ice as he scored his second goal of the season. 


mping Rangers 
goal, Markus Naslund deked defenseman Alex Karpotsev, NEW YORK then managed to whip a shot , the New York past Rangers goaltender Mike it from their Richter as he fell to the ice 
4:56 into the third. Vancouver 
a 3-2 loss to the was able to prote<;t the lead Canucks on the rest of the way with the , the Rangers aid of some clutch goaltending 
at Madison by Kirk McLean. 

chanting, "Re· "We got the goal and then shut 'em down," said McLean. Colin Campbell "We played a smart game. hat they probably We're on a little bit of' a roll 
r~,,,.,.,,,,,,..~ one after his team now." ..F~r~~·Arl a defensive break­The victory gave the surging 
the third period that Canucks a 5-1-0 record over ~-~~ ~"· ·"".· a game for the sec-the last six games. After vn1~ ~~..u~ in three nights. They falling behind 1-0 in the first ·to Washington on period when Brian Leetch scored his fifth goal of the sea­dismal effort.... son at 4:24, Vancouver after. watohing unleashed a 13-shot barrage . fall to 6·9·4 in the second period to take a 
ostile hometown 2-1 lead on goals by Mike Sillinger at 3:31 and Bret Hedican at 12:49. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next"day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must he prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A  NEEDED:1 ROOMATE!TURTLE  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Stu-conv Pitt GA 4-sale x-2737  For Sale-1 Rutgers & 1 Pitt. stu­ 
NOTICES  NAVY BLUE DOUBLE BREAST­ED SPORT JACKET. IF  CRK APTS/2ND SEM/CALL 634-2059  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  Please help! Need Stu/GAs for  dent ticket. Face value. 277-4269  
FOUND, PLEASE CONTACT  Pitt  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free Organize a Small Group Earn  MARK AT X3677.  FOR RENT  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME GAMES 235-3394  Brian@ 243-9405  SALE 4 50YD LN GAS  
$$$  MUST SELL!!  FOR PITT  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  HELP HELP HELP HELP  WALK TO CAMPUS  ALUM NEEDS GA's  10 GAs FOR RUTGERS!  312-862-2204  
Package includes 2 meals +  HELP  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  for WASH, AF. PITT & RUT­ FACE VALUE!  
3hrs. all-u-can drink daily. Don  LOST: brown leather London  232-2595  GERS  PLEASE CALL x1744  FOR SALE: PITT GA-STUDENT  
Surf & Sun (800)763-5606.  Fog jacket @ library on Nov. 6  618-274-2990 M-F 8am-6pm  CONVERTED. B/0  
Call x2653 HUGE  7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97  I Have 2 Pitt Student Ga's!!!  CALL NICOLE X4684.  
Hey, do you need to get a room?  REWARD!!!!!!!!!  College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full  N.D. Football tickets bought &  Call x1049  
I have a room @ the S.B. Days  bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vault­ sold.  NEED 1 RUTGERS GA  
Inn for the Pitt weekend that I  LOST-Columbia ski parka near  ed ceil, porch, furniture avail.  219-232-2378 a.m.  For Sale: 2 WEEZER tics,  Preferably Student Ticket  
can't use. Do you have  the Main Building. Brown, green  BEAUTIFUL!  288-2726 p.m.  Nov.16  Converted to GA  
friends/family/significant other  and black. I really need this  273-2580  Chicago, low price, call x0515  Call JEFF @ 3633  
who can? If so, call Steven @4­ back. If found, please return.  TIX for every home game.  
44871 Call now! Demand is high!  Dan-x3214  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS.  Call (301) 445-3955  NEED RUTGERS TIX 'Brigitte x4055  PERSONAL  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINT­ WANTED  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK· ENDS.  I NEED RUTGERS GA'S CALL KATIE 243-9038  NEED 2 PITT TIX.  FAX IT FAST!!!  
BALL GAMES AT SCOTTS"  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  CALL BRENT 4-3662  Sending & Receiving  
DALE MALL. CALL 291-9462  NOW IS THE TIME TO CALL  243"0658.  !@#$%11&•())(*&11%$#@!  at  
FOR INFO.  LEISURE TOURS AND GET  I NEED PITT TICKETS!!!  NEED  THE COPY SHOP  
FREE INFORMATION FOR  REGGAE D. J.  Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted  2 Ga's or conv Stud Tix  LaFortune Student Center  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  SPRING BREAK PACKAGES  234 0705  to GA. ..  Big Reward  Our Fax# (219) 631·FAX1  
Breakfast Inn has space avail­ TO SOUTH PADRE, CANCUN,  CALL 4-4217 ...  call Christian x3592  FAX IT FAST!!!  
able for football wknds. 5 Rooms  JAMAICA AND FLORIDA. REPS  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL  ! @ #$%11&. ())(*&11%$#@!  
with private baths, $70 -$90,  NEEDED ... TRAVEL FREE AND  NOW OR NEXT FALL NEAR  PITT GA & Stud Tix(W/ID) 4  0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP  
Middlebury, 30 miles from cam­ EARN COMMISSIONS. 800­ CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX  sale. 2738262. LOw Price  in the LaFortune Student Center  
pus. Toll Road, Exit #107,  838-8203  272-6306  CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO  Mon. 7:30am -Midnight  
1·800·418-9487  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Tues. 7:30am · Midnight  
NOW HIRING: University Sales  ATTENTION: 5 Bedroom, 1 1/4  I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU­ ALL GAMES HOME  Wed. 7:30am · Midnight  
and Marketing, the leader in on  bath, 2000 sq. ft., 2 car garge, 2  DENT CONVERTED GA'S,  AND AWAY  Thur. 7:30am -Midnight  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  campus employment for college  story house for rent close to  STUDENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL  232-0058  Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All  students, is hiring at your school.  campus. $1000.00 per month. 5  MEGHAN @232-7839  24HRS.  Sat. Noon -6:00pm  
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes!  Marketing and Promotions posi­ people ($200.00 per person).  BUY · SELL -TRADE  Sun. Noon -Midnight  
Great Beaches & Nightlife!  tions available. Work on campus,  Rent Negotiable. CALL 255­ Desperate for Rutgers tixl!  TICKET-MART, INC.  (closed home football Saturdays)  
Prices Increase Soon-Save $50!  Flexible hours. Great pay. For  3251.  $$Will Pay$$  
springbreaktravel.com 1-800­ Information, Call800-562-8524.  Please call Amanda at  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  TIM CORBITT IS THE  
678-6386  EASTERN EUROPE JOBS ­ FOR SALE  (301 )314-8671 or send email to  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL 232-0061.  COOLEST, PART! EST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN LAFAYETTE  
Teach basic conversational  adew@wam.umd.edu.  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  English in Prague, Budapest, or  Dell Laptop Computer  $$$$$$  All undergrad, grad and faculty  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel  Krakow. No teaching certificate  Like new, '96 model.  HELP!  I NEED GA OR FACUL TV TIXS  interested in presenting their  
From South Bend $419! Prices  or European languages required.  Orig. cost: $2000.  Student needs Rutgers GA's  ALL HOME GAMES.  work at the 1997 Sophomore  
Increase Soon-Save $50! Save  Inexpensive Room & Board +  Sell $1500.  for family.  272-6551  Literary Festival are invited to  
$150 on Food. Drinks! 111%  other benefits. For info. call:  8MB, 100 MHz  Call Mark at x1487  audition on Tues. Nov. 19 at 8pm  
Lowest Price Guarantee! spring­ (206)971-3680 ext.K55843  Call233-5114.  n. d. tickets for sale  in the Montgomery Theatre in  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  4 USC TICKETS FOR SALE ­ 271 1635  LaFortune. Please prepare a 5­ 
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING ­ House for Sale by Owner  CALL HODGE & LEAVE AMES­ 10 min. reading and submit a  
Positions are now available at  1308 White Oak Drive in  SAGE 291-3672  Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tick­ written sample of your work. ?'s  
Spring Break Panama City!  National Parks, Forests, &  Wooded Estates. Walk to Notre  ets­ call Meg at x3025.  
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best  Wildlife Preserves. Excellent  Dame. 3 Bedroom ranch, 2 car  Rutgers student ticket needed.  Check our price 674-7645.  
Hotel, Location. Price! 7 Nights  benefits + bonuses! Call: 1-206­ garage attached w/ breezeway.  Please call x3755.  ADOPTION IS A  
•  $129! Daytona"Best Location $139! Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! springbreaktravel.com 1-800­ 971-3620 ext. N55849 ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ 11/2 baths, 1313 SF main level, 1 025 sf basement. ale, disposal, all appliances, Security  4 SALE: 2 Pitt GA's Call w/ best offer: 277-9957  Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers No std -pre!. side In Peter 1-800-746-3755  CHOICE OF LOVE. Choosing Adoption is an unselfish act of love. Your child  
678·6386  Students Needed! Fishing  System.Completely refreshed to  will be raised to know this.  
Junior "nanny" looking for a fami" !y in need of loving babysitter. Will work nights and weekends for a reasonable rate. I have a car. Please call Lorna at 634­1291 for references  Industry. Earn up to $3,000­$6,000+ per month. Room and Board! Transportation! Male or Female. No experience neces­sary. Call (206)971-3510 extA55848  sell. asking 88,500. Open houses 12-5 every Sunday. Call 219-295-8727 TICKETS  Help! I need a Pitt ticket for one of my buddies. Please call Myron-243-1267 4-SALE:4 PITT GA x4-3144 Dina  Pitt. GA's 4-sale Call Ed x1643. Leave best offer, name and number NEED STUD or GA PITT TIX PLEASE CALL X 0902  Caring couple wish to share our love, laughs, and lives with an infant. Dad is kind and gentle. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's talk and see if we're right for you and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1-800-213-3960.  
(3 yrs w/same family).  Spring Break 97 Cancun or  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  NEED 1 RUTGERS STUD. or  2 PITT GAs 4sale -Call 243·  
'LOST & FOU~D~  Mazatlan. Sell 15 trips and travel free plus cash. Lowest Price Guaranteed! Food and Drink  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY 232-0058  GA Call Tony @x3662  9357 1 USC tix for sale. Call Jill @  COME AND LEARN THE TWO STEP TONIGHT AT BALL­ROOM DANCE!  
packages available. Call  24 HAS.  NEED 3 RUTGERS TIX  412-661-0459 or 1-800-545­ WHERE: STEPAN CENTER  
MISSING: EUREKA TENT, FOLDED IN GREEN BAG. VERY LOVED.REWARD OFFERED FOR RETURN. AMY@634-3525. THANK YOU.  Sunbreaks. 800-446-8355. HUGE ND FAN DESPERATE FOR 5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (813)360-2243.  BUY -SELL -TRADE TICKET-MART, INC. Need 5-6 USC tickets. Please help. Call X4008. Ask for Cyrus.  Call Mike 4-4131 STUD TIX 4 Sale X1413  0482 ext. 753 GA.s FOR SALE GA.s """""PITT, RUTGERs , USC , GA.s CALL.....272-7233,  TIME: 6:00-8:00 PM DON'T FORGET THAT WE ARE NOW STARTING AN HOUR EARLI­ER!!  

~-----~........---------··--------~-----·-~-­
Tuesday, November 12, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• NFL 


Coleman leads Chargers to Mond~y night win 
By BERNIE WILSON won their last seven to qualify. The third-year pro has six yard screen pass to Fletcher, dislocated non-throwing left Associated Press Writer Detroit was then routed 58-37 career TDs on returns, includ­center Courtney Hall was called shoulder, completed 24 of 32 by Philadelphia. ing a kickoff return in the for false start. Since the penalty passes for 311 yards and three SAN DIEGO Coleman was back in as a Super Bowl loss to San came in the final two minutes, touchdowns with no intercep­
Because 12 Detroit Lions -regular because Charlie Jones Francisco two seasons ago. 10 seconds were run off the tions. including 6-foot-4 IIerman was knocked out with bruised Jason Hanson was wide-right clock, leaving San Diego with The Chargers re-discovered Moore -couldn't stop little ribs in the first quarter. But he on a 53-yard field goal try with two ticks before the big play. their ground game, with Andre Coleman, the "Wayne was having a miserable night, 1:21 left in the first half, giving San Diego kept the momen­Leonard Russell gaining 80 of Watch" could be running out fumbling on a reverse for a 7-the Chargers the ball on their tum, with Humphries throwing San Diego's 127 rushing yards. of time. yard loss and then dropping a 43. his third TD pass of the night Tony Martin caught eight pass­
Coleman, a 5-foot-9 receiver perfect pass from Humphries Humphries threw passes of 8 on San Diego's first possession es for 113 yards and one TD. who lost his starting job to a in the span of three plays. and 15 yards to Terrell of the second half, a 9-yarder to The Lions closed to 27-21 rookie a week earlier, caught a He was in perfect position, Fletcher, then lost 18 when he tight end Alfred Pupunu for a with 1:52 left when Brett desperation 46-yard pass from though, on a play that began was sacked by Henry Thomas 24-14lead. Perriman scored on a 1-yard Stan Humphries on the final with two seconds on the clock. and fumbled. Humphries re­Pupunu was carted off the scoring pass from Don play of the first half, boosting He got behind Moore -covered the ball. field early in the fourth quarter Majkowski. the San Diego Chargers in a brought in on defense because San Diego was out of time­with a leg injury. Detroit attempted an on-side 27-21 victory over the Lions on of his size and jumping ability outs, but Detroit called one with Humphries, who returned af­kick, but Junior Seau recovered Monday night. -and 6-foot-2 cornerback 3 7 seconds left. After an 11-ter missing two starts due to a on the Detroit 36. 
The Chargers (6-4) won for Ryan McNeil and caught 
just the second time in five games, while dumping Detroit (4-6) to its fourth straight loss, damaging both the Lions' play­off hopes and coach Wayne Fontes' chance of his keeping his job beyond this season. 
Lions owner William Clay Ford has implied that it will take a Lions playoff win to save Fontes' job. 
Last year, Ford issued a play­offs-or-else ultimatum when the Lions were 3-6, and they Humphries' rainbow pass in the end zone for a 17-14 lead. 
Not only did Moore's cameo defensive role play, but the Lions were flagged for having 12 men on the field. 
Moore entered the game as the NFL's leading receiver, but was held to only three catches for 39 yards. 
Coleman came up with his arms. outstretched, celebrating his first career touchdown as a receiver. 

Students looking the best deal on new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem 
at 237-4000 for appointment Bring this ad in and receive $1000ff 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 

Smoltz receives N.L. honors 
By RONALD BLUM 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
John Smoltz can rest easy. He finally has a Cy Young Award, just like teammates Greg Maddux and Tom Glavin e. 
"Everybody felt I needed this to be on par with Greg and Tommy," Smoltz said Monday after scoring a landslide victory over Florida's Kevin Brown. "At least winning the award takes the pressure off of that." 
Atlanta's prized pitching staff became the first to win four consecutive Cy Young Awards and has won five of six, a streak that began with Glavine's in 1991. 
Maddux won for the Chicago Cubs in 1992 and then won in each of his first three seasons with the Braves. 

"I know down the road I'll be honored to have played with those two guys," Smoltz said. "Everybody felt I needed to win it more than I did. For years things did not go my way and I was pitching hurt." 
Smoltz received 26 first-place votes and two second-place votes for 136 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers Association of America. Brown was second with two firsts, 26 seconds and 88 points. 
"Aside from us winning the World Series, this is the great­est thing that's ever happened to me," he said. 
Smoltz, who earned a $250,000 bonus for winning 
the award on top of his $5.25 million salary, became a free agent following the· World Series, 
"There's a lot pressure to stay here, a lot of pressure from people to do the right thing, do the nice thing," Smoltz said. "My idea of a per­fect situation would be to stay here, but I'm not going to close any doors." 
Atlanta's six-game World Series loss to the Yankees took some of the pleasure away. 
"That tarnishes this a little bit. I truly wanted to win the World Series," Smoltz said. "But if I can remove myself from being a team player and just look at it personally, this is the most gratifying award I've gotten to this point." 





for a talk on "Teacher as Team-Builder" 
Come and Hear Why Lou Holtz Wants 
YOU· 

To Become an ACE Teacher 
Tuesday, November 12 7:00PM DeBartolo Main Auditorium 
-
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 12, 1996 
• COLLEGE FOOTBAll 

Black Knights seek to end eight-year bowl drought 
By NEKESA MUMBI MOODY Associated Press Writer 
WEST POINT, N.Y. 
In the ranks of the best col­lege teams this season, there is florida, Ohio State and ... Army? 
Yes, Army. For the first time since 1985, the Black Knights (9-0) are ranked in the Top 25 -at No. 22 -and just might be playing in a bowl game by year's end. 
But while some may question a team whose schedule so far has included just two teams with winning records and two 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Drop-In Volleyball RecSports witl be offering Drop-In Volleyball on Tues., Nov. 12. Dec. 3, and Dec. 10, from 7-10 p.m. in the Joyce Center. No established teams or advanced sign-ups neces· sary. For more information call 1-6100. 

Saint Mary's College Department of Communication, Dance and Theatre presents 
Edward The 
Albee's[ 
Nov. 14, 15, 16 at 8p.m.; Nov. 17 at 7:30p.m. liHie Theatre 

Division I-AA schools, as far as the Black Knights are con­cerned, the national attention they're starting to get is a little overdue. 
"If they don't give us respect, we've definitely earned it," said fullback Joe Hewitt, who had a career-high 161 yards on 29 carries and two touchdowns in Saturday's decisive 23-7 victory over Air Force at sold-out Michie Stadium. 
"I don't see how anybody could not give us respect after this," he said. 
They certainly got it from Air Force (5-4). stripping the 
Late Nig t. 0 pic Steering Committee -Anyone lntere~ted in serving on the Late Night Olympic Steering C,ommlttee, please call Kara at 118237. 
Off-Campus Volleyball ­Anyone interested in playing off-campus interhall YJJ~eyball please call Greg a~ ~?;:~553. 
··l';f~.=. '..t<··=·==·>· 
Basketball ticket sales will be extended until Monday on first come, first serve basis. 
Falcons of the Commander-In­Chief's Trophy they've held since 1988. Air Force saw its potent rushing attack, second­best in the nation at 354 yards per game, held to only 69 yards, and star quarterback Beau Morgan held to just 6 net rushing yards. 
"The difference between what they do and what other teams do is that they just exe­cute better," Morgan said. "It 



INTERNATIONAL jOB SKILLS 
New profes.~ional M.A. in 
International Affairs or 
Interamerican Studies prepares you rapidly for exciting careers: 
0 environmental studies • 0 public health 0 government 0 international 
organizations 0 international media, 
business Learn valuable analytic skills from economics and the social sciences. 
Complete this intensive multi-disciplinary degree in 12 to 15 months, while li1·ing in a fascinating international city. 
Frt>e details: Contad our Admissions Secretary. 
GRADUATE ScHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL STIJDIFS 
Coral Gables, FL 33124-jOIO 30)-284-4173; Fax: 30S-2SH406 lmp:!/v..ww.umiami.edu/gsis/ 

Earn Credit During Christmas Break 
Deadline for Applications is November 13th, at 5:00 p.m. 
The Church and Social Action Course colloquially known as 

seemed like on every play they had at least one guy get off the block that wound up making the play." 
Army's defense managed to pressure not only Morgan but Air Force's entire offensive line, allowing only one touch­down and forcing the Falcons to hand over the ball time and again. 
"We were going three-and­
~I 

out, giving the offense the ball back," Army linebacker Ben Kotwica said. "When you can keep their defense on the field, you're going to win the game." 
With just two more games left, against No. 19 Syracuse and Navy, the Black Knights remain in serious contention for a bowl berth, something they haven't achieved in eight years. 

at SAINT MARY'S 

Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
for this weekend Friday & Saturday night for the 

Pittsburgh and Rutgers Games 
Call while they last 

219-232-4000 

---~--~ ----~---~~---------­
Tuesday, November 12, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

Chicago extends Suns' skid, remains one of two undefeated teams 
By MIKE NADEL Associated Press Writer 
CHICAGO 
Michael Jordan scored 26 points, Dennis Rodman pulled down 22 rebounds and the Chicago Bulls remained unbeaten by defeating the winless Phoenix Suns 97-79 Monday night. 
Scottie Pippen added 18 points for the defending NBA champions, who at 7-0 are off to the best start in franchise history. The Bulls won despite shooting 43 percent from the floor. 
Houston (6-0) is the league's only other unde­feated team. 
Michael Finley scored 17 points for the Suns (0­6). who are within three losses of their worst start ever. Phoenix shot 39 percent and committed 18 turnovers in its lowest-scoring game this season. 
Not even the first halftime lead of the year helped the Suns, whose 41-39 advantage quickly evaporated. 
The Bulls outscored Phoenix 17-8 to open the third quarter, with Jordan making three jumpers and dishing out three assists. 
Chicago went up 68-55 after three quarters and led by as many as 20 points in the fourth. 
Pippen made two 3-pointers as the Bulls scored the game's first eight points. Chicago still led 16­10 before Robert Horry scored five points to start a 13-0 Phoenix run. 







Thinkofus 
as yourscliool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare; the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to 
No hassles, no problems. For information and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
I I~ITI=n II~A()
v i "i i i ii.i...f' ii.ii i ii'V' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare &Midway, All Day... Every Day 

Howard arrested for DWI 
By BRIAN WITTE 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Juwan Howard was arrested early Monday, charged with drunken driving after his 1995 Mercedes was spotted speeding down a Washington street. 
The Washington Bullets forward had just left a nightclub when the arrest was made at 3:45 a.m., said District of Columbia police spokesman Sgt. Joe Gentile. Howard was released on his own recognizance and a Dec. 6 court date was set. 
"This is truly a big embarrassment for me personally and for my family and also for the Bullets organization," Howard said after practice Monday at Bowie State University. 
Howard said he understood that "we all have to follow rules and regula­tions," adding that he would continue to be himself and "let everyone know that I'm not perfect." 
Bullets general manager Wes Unseld said Howard was "deeply affected and hurt" by the incident. 
"I think we will accept Juwan's statement that he made a mistake and let him go on," Unseld said. 
Howard, known for his charitable work around the Washington area in his two years with the Bullets, had signed a seven-year, $100 million dol­lar contract with the Miami Heat in July. 
That deal, which was subsequently voided by the league because it exceeded Miami's salary cap, would have made him one of highest paid athletes in sports history. 
Given a second chance, Bullets owner Abe Pollin shelled out roughly the same amount Miami had offered. 
Re-signed by the Bullets, Howard said he had not wanted to leave Washington and called his return "truly a blessing." 
This season, he is averaging 17.4 points and 10 rebounds a game. Last year, he averaged 22.1 points and 8.1 rebounds a game and was named to the All-Star team. 
I Please Recycle The Observer I 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
~benb-MUSIOVE
,......_, 
GREGORIAN CHANT FOR MARY & CHRISTMAS DAY ~" ~~ ~~:i;_;.:_~;,;;or-J"i\~~,..-~~=~-~ ~--:lltllillll.l\111 >;(JPJttUI~rt~~lturi-OrlfiG-MrofililrM·--tt·tr ~-I_IIO~:__,:~~t.~~~ 
.~~~;;,:::~t~;;;::_~~;~;,;c~;,::·~_\r 
.:/' E-~~c~·=-·?=\-*; .. -...... _ 1k v!Jr nun notR-JJu
__!_ 11.••­

•. , ~ •"-~----->--t---------•--·•,... croml1!ftt1ts. <&Ious 
........... 

~cbola ;!f-Mu~icorum 
9:30p.m. Wednesday, November 13 Basilica of the Sacred Heart Free and open to the public. 
Men 
continued from page 16 
Connecticut, turning in our fastest times of the year. We are a young team and we keep improving week-to-week." 
Some highlights in the loss the Huskies include Beville and Murphy capturing first and second place in the 200-meter butterfly, Fugate, Mehok, and Saylor sweeping the 200-meter backstroke, and Zumbach, Page, and Fetter sweeping the 200-meter individual medley. It was a tough loss for the Irish because they swam so well and remained close to the Huskies throughout the match. 
As a result of this weekend's matches against Boston College and the University of Connecticut, the Irish are 2-2 on the year. Notre Dame swims next at home against the University of Pittsburgh. 
Seeds 
continued from page 16 
our title," said Petrucelli. "Playing Indiana is always a great in-state rivalry for us and it is great for soccer in the state of Indiana." 
The team's never ending search for respect will continue with the Hoosiers. The game day and time have yet to be de­cided, but the game will take place at Alumni Field. 


-ISM (N.) 


VIDEOCONFERENCE INFORMATION 

1.01. DeBartolo 7:00PM November 1.3th 
for more info contact Rodney Cohen 631-5293 
Camp u ....s______......_.~!'ft'W'ft~~....
•u;'"·'W'!!tif1aif'
Divers it 
Summit 
WITH MAJOR SUPPORT FROM PROJECT CHANGE: AN ANTI­RACISM INITIATIVE OF THE LEVI STRAUSS FOUNDATION 
the waythings are ... 
the way things an be 
Institute for Public Media Arts 


LIVE SATELLITE VIDEOCONFERENCE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1996 7:00PM • 9:45PM EST 4:00PM • 6:45PM PST 
JOIN DR. RONALD TAKAKI, PROFESSOR OF ETHNIC STUDIES AT UC BERKELEY AND DISTINGUISHED AUTHOR AND 10, 000 COLLEGE STUDENTS FROM AROUND THE COUNTRY FOR AN INTERACTIVE DIS­CUSSION ABOUT DIVERSITY ON COLLEGE CAMPUS­ES. COME TO ASK QUESTIONS, OFFER YOUR PER­
SPECTIVE, LEARN,  AND  BE A CATALYST FOR  
ACTION!  
MODERATED BY:  

Farai Chideya, CNN political analyst, former MTV news editor 

CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
... 

__j 

----~~-~-~ 
.;._.,',{_jQ i • 1:..n-'~JU :.11i 1 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 12, 1996 
IF~IEIE  IF~IEIE  IF~ICIE  
The Notre Dame African Students Association  ml~ILIL >1~ AlNICOIN!~  
and  tiM  W@RD(SSHI@IP  


CENTER FOR 

Wednesday November 13
SOCIAL 

The Center for Social Concerns CONCERNS 
7pm-9pm
Present a Lecture by 

Lafortune Ballroom Professor Sylvanus Udoidem Center for Philosophy of Religion 
entitled "Toxic Waste in Third World Countries: An Ethical Issue" 
Tuesday, November 12, 1996 at 4:15 p.m. Hesburgh Faculty lounge 
For further information contact Guillaume Zounlome NDASA 272-7449 or Rodney Cohen Center for Social Concerns 631-5293 


98UPDATB 
• SMC SWIMMING 

Swimmers showiti strong improvement 
By DEBRA DIEMER 
Spons Wrirer 
Saint Mary's swim team battled the waves Saturday in a double dual meet against University of Chicago and Lake Forest College. 
Saturday marked the Belles second meet of the season, which resulted in a loss to the University of Chicago by a mere 11 points. Despite the defeat, the team demonstrated significant improvement and coach Angela Addington is opti· mistic about upcoming meets. 
Unfortunately, the team is struggling due to its lack of size and depth. Many Belles are substituting in for events they are not familiar with in order to fill the field for com­petition. Sophomore captain Tara Thomas swam three events Saturday including the 500 freestyle, which was a new event for her. 
There were many outstand­ing finishes in the Chicago meet, led by senior captain Shannon Kelleher who placed first in the 200 individual medley. In the 500 freestyle, Kelleher wiped out the com· petition, beating the rest of the field by seven seconds earning another first place finish for the Belles. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The pace was St)t by tho senior captain and followed by her teammates. Allison Smith placed first in the 200 freestyle while Thomas earned another first in the 200 backstroke. Making an impact as a freshman, Michelle Samreta contributed with a strong second place finish in the 200 breast· stroke. 
"Michelle is a National hopeful as a freshman," said coach Addington. 
The 400 medley relay including Thomas, Samreta, Kelleher. and .freshman Nancy Midden also splashed their way to a first place frn­ish. 
"Overall, there was defmite improvement by the team. Just in a week, 2·3 seconds have been shaved off m~y of their times," said coach Addington. 
Addington has confidence in her team. She expects at least half of them to attend Nationals this . year. Specifically, she anticipates their peak around January. 
The Belles have a home meet Thursday against Calvin. "With a breakdown of the recent times, the Belles have potential to win. It will be a good meet," concluded Addington. 
Goshen constantly guessing. "Courtney did a great job


FreshiDen 

mixing up the offense," said 
Schroeder-Biek. "It was good to 
see her put into play what we very high," commented had done in practice." Schroeder-Biek. Love recorded 36 assists on 
Saint Mary's relied on fresh­the afternoon. man setter Courtney Love The season came to a close throughout the match to keep on Saturday and the Belles 
continued from page 16 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING 

Irish dominate Big East swing 
By BILL HART Sporrs Writer 
The Irish women's swimming team went 2-0 this weekend, beating Boston College and Connecticut in Big East meets on a short road trip. 
The Irish began their week­end against Boston College on Friday, and set out to dominate from the starting event. A quick first-second finish in the 200-meter medley relay pro­pelled the women to a 15-2 lead. 
Notre Dame continued to dominate the next few events, with Courtney South, Leticia Herrera, and Shannon Suddarth sweeping the 200­meter freestyle. By the end of the first three events, the Irish led by twenty-four points. 
Notre Dame continued to in­crease their lead due to impressive performances in individual events. Rhiana Sauders set a meet record in her performance on the one­meter diving board, and Suddarth set two meet records in the 400-meter individual medley and the 200-meter breaststroke. 
An Irish swimmer placed first 

Head coach Bailey Weathers commented, "Linda Gallo and Erin Brooks were key perform­ers in this meet, and the fresh­men swimmers stepped up to the challenge that B.C. offered." 
With their first loss, Boston College falls to 2-1. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame jumped out to an early lead against Connecticut, scoring 15 points in the 200-meter medley relay. The two Irish teams took first and second place, setting a meet record in the process. They continued to keep the momentum for the next two events, with Gallo taking first place in both the 100 and 200­meter freestyle. Gallo also set two meet records in the pro­cess. 
The Irish then widened the gap against the Huskies by col­lecting 14 points in the 1GO­meter backstroke. Brooks, Allison Hollis, and Molly Beeler placed first, third and fourth respectively. By the end of the fifth event, Notre Dame led, 54­20. 
The Irish continued to domi­nate for most of the events, with one Irish swimmer placing first in thirteen events. In the were left with one of the best records that the volleyball team has had in many years. 
"It felt good," said Miller. "I was glad to see the season end on a winning note." 
With no seniors to lose, the Belles look to improve on their existing team and emerge even stronger for next year. 
100 meter-butterfly, Liz Barger, Herrera, and Allison Newell, placed first, second, and third respectively, sweep­ing the event. 
The Huskies attempted to rally, scoring 43 points in the last three events. However, it wasn't nearly enough to curb the Irish onslaught, as they won 178-118. The team set eight meet records, including three by Gallo and two by Brooks. The Irish led by as much as 94 points during the meet. 
"The whole team made a solid effort in both meets," Coach Weathers commented. "It's usually hard to win on the road, with the traveling that comes with the meets, but they had an excellent match against Boston College, and their per­formance continued to improve at the Connecticut meet." 
Other Irish swimmers who placed in the meets included Brittany Kline, Anne Iacobucci, and Laura Shepard. 
With these two wins, the team's record improves to 2-1, and 2-0 in conference action. Notre Dame returns home to swim against Pittsburgh on Friday. 
in every event except one. 

THANKS TO EVERYONE WHO CAME TO ELECTION PARTY, DINNER, &BW-3s! 

Tuesday, Nove~ber 12, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MIKE PETERS 

CI\TBE.RT: EVIL 11.R. DIRECTOR 
~ERE ARE THE RESUMES ~ 
Of HIGHLY QUA.LIFrED ~ A-PPLICANTS FOR E '<OUR OPENING. ~ 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


\ ~ 
~ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Com padre of Fidel
1 Jacuzzis 27 Years at the 5 Box office hit Sorbonne10 Man in a garden 
28Cool-­

14 Boston's cucumber 
Faneuil-­
31 Main course 

15 Busch Gardens 33 Kind of shelter site 
36 P.B.A. Hall-of-61 Tricks 

16 Singer Horne 
Farner Anthony 62 Tibetan priest 17 One of the 
37Whatthe 63 Compote fruit 

Guthries 
sculptor­64 Awaken, as 18 Swiss turned­feelingsmountains, to policeman said 
65 Drei minus zwei 
the French 40 Man-eating && Actress Raines 19 City blight giant 
67 Prevent 

20Whatthe 42 Bloodhounds' 
68 Skirt feature 

photographer­trails 
turned­43 Kind of scream 
policeman said 46Weep DOWN 
23 Indian carving 47 Berne's river 
1 California peak 
24Model so Notebook 
2 "9 to 5" actress 
Macpherson divider 
3 Metes out 

4 Schussing site 
5 Twinkler 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
6 Its capital is Bamako 7 Plentiful aBe in a bee 34 Nile viper 9 Harass 35 Neighbor of 10Too Cambodia 11 Bill Clinton, e.g. 37 Court of justice r7+~:,:.+;::+:::-1 12 Second helping 38 Halloween cry 13 Oui or Us, e.g. 39 Population 21 Muscat resident classification 22 Biddy 40Choose 26 Conger 41 Small anchor 29 Start of a cheer 44 Suffix with 30 "Lucky Jim" honor author 45Came into 32 Miss Trueheart view 33 "Excuse me" 47 Lace into 
R~~ 
tabll! tl!nnr~ \IQUybQ\\ ~liQ~b 
~.· Intramural Signups 

Co-Ree Wally ball Campus Table Tennis Campus Squash Deadline is Nov.ember 14 
Sign up in the R~c::-~ office. 
631-6100 



IT'S TOO eA.O WE. 00!\I'T PA.Y ENOUGH 
TO HIRE QUA-LiFIED 
f:..PPLICANTS. HA. HI\ I-ll\ Hfl.-1-\~ HA!! 
51 Santa--, Calif. 

54 Way to the altar 
56 What the manicurist­turned­policeman said 
60 "--Karen ina" 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
IIAPP\ BIRTIIIJAY! IN TilE NEXT \E.\I{ OF YOUR LIFE:!\ ..,erie' ol UIIL'\j1l'L"tl'd l'\'L'Ill:-. v.·dl hring you the nlonclary H.'\l..anl;, you ... o richly tk~l'f\'l' (jettmg tug.ethL'I with familv mcmll<'r> on neutral !er· ritory lead~ to an o,·crduc n:concilia­tion. Nuh-and-holh issue-; demand the lion·..., "hare ol your time at work. Look for P'"itive financial development...., a.... next spring approaches. A concerted effort to improve your health and image will pay hig dividends. Keeping up with new trends will earn you a repu!a· lion as a business genius. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: songwriter Neil Young, figure skater· Ton) <I Harding. TV host Bcnice Bern. gymnast Nadia Comanec.:1. 
ARIES ! March ::>.1-April 19 ): Tempers could flare over a m1sun· ders!anding ahou! monev. Ynu need to wait a day before nuiktng a far­reaching decision. Strive to lighten your load a! work. 
TAURUS fApril 20-May 201: Progress is likely e1·en if it is not as rapid as you would like. Turn handi­crafts into a home-based husiness. A neighbor or good friend could be the 
ide~l assis1a~1. 
GEMINI !Ma1 21-June 20): Your faith in the fuiure leads you to set new goals. An older person becomes your memor. Avoid acting competitive" ilh higher-ups: there is no way you can win 
CANCER (June 21·Julv 221: )'our resentment ma1 be shtm:ing. A 1·isi1or could be a bleS>ing in dis­guise. Be hospitable. If someone 
seeks a financial fa, or. get a repay­ment plan in writing. 
LET'S SEE ... WE'VE GOT 
RESUI"\E5 IN PENCIL ... 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 221: A good day to cui through red !ape1 Things may not be exactls what they seem 
CRA'I'ON ... PENCIL... 
E'<ELIN£R... 

with your panner. An opponen! has 
) 



49 Banquet 58 Quarterback's 52 Debonair command 53 Underworld 59 Pete Sampras, 
talk in away 55 Waits at the 60 Huxley's "-­

Wanted: Reporters, 
stoplight and Essence" 

photographers
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 

and editors. 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 

Join The Observer staff. 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
IIJL· l'd,!.!L' 1n ;, UllllJll'tltlon !lapp~ L.ill\JI~ lll'V,-., [)Uh ;1 ":_llllk Oil )'Otll 
fau· 
\'II{(;() (/\11)0 21 \c·p! 221 Mcclin~ a 11ork dcadi111L' should tx: your toJ) priority. Pr()llHJie tcamwor~ 
at the office. You llll'Cl the partner ol 
your dream\ at a husmcv... meeting Pli1y it cool. hut tr) to exchange a lew words. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23·0ct. 22): Be positive in word and deed. Financial progrcs~ i.... slow hut ~urc. Set asick funds for both emerge11cJes and a vacation. Regular visits 10 the gym will help you shape up. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Someone tests your patience. Forget !he recent unpleasantness and be enthusiastic ahou! !he future. A romance with a younger individual inspire~ you make overdue changes. 
SAGITTARIUS !Nov 22-Dec. 21): The indiree! approach works miracles now. A newcomer respects your knowledge but adores your personality' Give your relationship time to grow. 
CAPRICORN !Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Make amends for a mistake. A parent is well-intentioned but inter­feres too much. Be firm. Turn to a trusted friend if a crisis arises. You will not be disappointed with the response you gel. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181: Networking leads 10 new clients. Check the reputation of potential partners. A romance can be rekin­dled if that is what vou reallv want. Send imponant information ;.,ithout funher delav. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Your affectionate personality brings a favorable response from others. Conflict with an authority figure is likely; back off if a showdown seems imminent. 

• 
-"" 







SPORTS 
page 16 Tuesday, November 12, 1996 
Women seek to 

w=-----------------­

gain respect 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 

fromNCM

CHAMPIONSHIP PAIRJNGS 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spans Wrirer 
Pairings for the first rouind of tournament play. 
The top-ranked women's soc­

These games are scheduled to be completed by 
cer team thought that they had found the recipe for respect. The team used a record of 20­1-0 as the main ingredient, added in the Big East title, in 
November 17. 
(1) North Carolina Portland 
both the regular season and the 
William & Mary J 
post-season tournament, com­

t... -----~~.:~i~§l~.?..~ 
bined it with the Big East coach 
VanderbiltJames Madison 
of the year, Chris Petrucelli,
~~(3re~nsb<:)~<:)_____ j 

.. t-....-... ·--~~-~~-~-(:;~Y 
and the Big East Rookie of the Year, Jenny Streiffer, and
Clemson 
.Yi_r:!;Jinia 
mixed. all of that with the title

( DukeWake Forest .... .) 
of defending national champi­
: ....... .! 

ons. Yet, the team was still
NC State 
1\tlilln~::;Qtl;l 
unsuccessful.
Nebraska
Flori~a---·-·-. ·-J 

·.···~ 
Yesterday evening, the NCAA
··I 
announced the seedings for the
Santa Clara Texas A&M 
championship tournament.
I
Stanford 

·~.. . ·---.. §.~.~-l:)iego
------. 
The top-ranked Irish are the
! 
second seeded team in the
George Mason i i 

r.e.gr.ge WC1Silingt(J.f1 
tournament. The recipe was 
Penn State 

, ........................ll'.l.'.l:r..Y..I.~'::l.!:l 
unsuccessful, and the top-rank­
I 
ing was given to North
Harvard I I Wisconsin 
Carolina.
I ' 

Massachusetts Northwestern
r----·-­
"It's frustrating" said captain Cindy Daws. "It makes no 

Dartmouth Indiana 
sense. So we have to go and 
Connecticut .... -.. .. ) 
show them by playing as a team and winning it all." 

~J?.). ....l\J<:>.t::E.!"......I:>!3.:1Tl.e 
The Observer/Tom Roland 
• MEN's SWIMMING 
Irish 

Despite the fact that the Irish defeated the Tar Heels in 
start October, they still found them­selves behind UNC in the tour­nament rankings. The team 
strongdefeated the Tar Heels 2-1 in overtime in Durham. 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA

Among the other seeds are 
Sports W ricer

Portland, which is ranked third, and the Connecticut The Notre Dame men's
Huskies, who picked up the swimming and diving teamfourth seed. The Irish have a 
was busy last weekend,
record of 8-1 over the NCAA traveling to Boston Collegefield. They have single wins on Friday and the Universityover No. 1 seed North of Connecticut on Sunday.
Carolina, Stanford, 
Their trip was a successfulWashington, Duke, Wisconsin, one, as the Irish came awayand Indiana, as well as two 
with a resounding victory
wins over No. 4 Connecticut. 
over the Golden Eagles andThey sustained their only loss their fastest meet of the yearin the regular season to No. 5 in a loss to the Huskies.
seed Santa Clara, 3-1. 
Notre Dame decimated
With the seedings and pair­Boston College, 234-66, in .a
ings the way they stand, Notre victory that showed not only
Dame could encounter only 
the strength of the Irish 
one seeded team prim: to the 
swimming team, but the
semifinals. 
depth of the squad.

The second-seeded Irish will "The most important thingface the unseeded University of 
about our victory overIndiana Hoosiers. Indiana 
Boston College was that weearned their bid automatically, learned how extensive ourby winning the Big Ten cham­depth is," said head coachpionship. Previously. Notre 
Tim Welsh. "We moved
Dame defeated the Hoosiers in people into different racesthe regular season, S-0. 
and tried to keep things bal­
"We are really excited to 
anced."

have the opportunity to defend 
The Irish dominated every event against the Eagles, see SEEDS I page 13 placing first in every event except for the 50-meter 
freestyle, where they placed second and third. Irish
• SMC VoLLEYBALL 

relay teams that placed first 
were Chris Fugate, Steele 
Whowell, Ryan Beville, and
Saint Mary's closes out season in style 
Vincent Kuna (200-meter 
ment and had gone five sets
Belles sweep with them. 
The Belles h'ad emerged vic­Goshen, attain torious that time but as fresh­man Melissa Miller said, "Wewin No. 20 barely beat them. This time we 
were out to prove that we were By ANGELA OLSEN clearly the better team." SportS Wrir<r Saint Mary's took an early 
The Saint Mary's Volleyball team wrapped up their season with style on Saturday, beating Goshen in straight sets, 15-9, 15-9, 15-11. The Belles got their twentieth win, which was a goal they had been seeking since they began competing back in August. 
Because the team had only three returning players, the new-coming freshmen had pressure on them to perform from the very beginning. Although head coach Julie

• Schroeder-Biek was able to re­cruit seven stellar freshman players who were all high school standouts, this was sup­posed to be a rebuilding year for the Belles. Back in August, Schroeder­Biek said, "The freshman are the strongest I've seen yet." Twenty wins later, she is not about to take back that state­ment. 
In their last match of the sea­son on Saturday, the Belles went in with determination. They had faced Goshen earlier in the season during a tourna­lead marked by intense play in the first set. 

"We passed well and execut­ed our offense very good," said freshman middle hitter Ashley Dickerson. 
Everything seemed to be clicking in the beginning of the set for the Belles. The big lead didn't last long however, as the Goshen team stepped up their level of play and Saint Mary's watched their 11-2 lead slip away. 
"They relaxed and didn't keep up the intensity," com­mented Schroeder-Hick. 
The Belles managed to pull themselves back together and close out the set 15-9. 
Going into the match Saint Mary's was prepared to face a threatening middle hitter from Goshen. The Belles looked to their own middle hitters, Dickerson and junior Betsy Connolly, to respond with an equal threat. The Saint Mary's hitters were up to the challenge and finished the day with nine kills each and seven blocks coming from Dickerson. 
"We held her (Goshen's mid-die hitter) down," said Schroeder-Biek. 
The second and third sets also saw the Belles play strong­ly. They came out a bit slow, but quickly picked up the pace. They were abl~;J to win both sets, 15-9 and 15-11. 

medley relay) and MikeInconsistent serving has 
Doyle, Beville, Kuna, andplagued the Belles throughout 
Brian Kolle (200-meter
the season but on Saturday as freestyle relay). 
Dickerson explained, "We did­Irish swimmers who cap­n't miss many." 
tured first place in individ~"Our serving percentage was 
ual events include Wes see FRESHMEN I page 14 Richardson (1000-meter 
freestyle), Beville (200­meter freestyle and 100­meter butterfly), Scott Zumbach (100-meter back­stroke, 200-meter breast­stroke and 400-meter in­dividual medley), Whowell (100-meter breaststroke). Fugate {200-meter butter­fly), Tyler Maertz (one­meter diving and three· meter diving), Kuna (100­meter freestyle), Jeff Page (200-meter backstroke), and Rich Murphy (500-meter freestyle). There were countless Irish swimmers who placed in the top three swimmers in their given races. 
Although Notre Dame was defeated by the University of Connecticut, 168-130. the Irish had no reason to be upset. While a loss is never easy to take, the fact that the Notre Dame swimmers swam their fastest times of the year was some consola­tion in the defeat. 
Coach Welsh commented, "We raced well against 
see MEN I page 13 

c. 
vs. Pittsburgh, November 16,.1:30 p.m. 
NCAA Tournament vs. Indiana TBA 
Big East Semifinals, vs. Connecticut November 16 

• SMC swimmmers off to slow start 
at Connecticut November 16,2 p.m. 
see page 14 
• Chargers get by hapless Lions 

vs. Ferris State November 15, 7 p.m. 
see page 11 



