
Wednesday, December 11, 1996 • Vol. XXVII No. 68 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students consider reforms ND graduate contests 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 

School Board decision 
Leaders from Student By MAUREEN HURLEY ence. Once I started working Government and the Student Associate News Editor · on the case, I felt there was Union Board gathered for the merit in the case, and wanted first meeting of the reform Following an unsuccessful bid to help out as much as I could," committee last night. Brendan for a seat on the South Bend said Arkell, who presented the Kelly, chief of staff for Student Board of School Trustees in argument for the Helland case Government. called the com­November elections, Peter to the 7th Circuit Court under mittee together for the express Helland, a 1978 Notre Dame the sponsorship of Robert purpose of revising the student graduate, is attempting to Palmer, assistant professor in 
body constitution. advance his platform agenda of the Notre Dame Law School. 
"This is a general reform increasing teaching of morality Despite defeats in the district committee to suggest changes in the public schools through a and circuit level, Helland main­to the constitution," he said. legal appeal to the U.S. tains that his case is meritori­"According to the constitution, Supreme Court. ous because of the possibility of any student can make a recom­After his dismissal from the setting a legal precedent in reli­mendation and it has to be South Bend Community School gious rights cases, and has talked about by the Student Corporation as a substitute appealed to the Supreme Court. Senate." teacher in 1993, Helland filed "This is a case that will have
knowledge about the processes pus including the Hall 
The clause which Kelly suit against the corporation, bigger ramifications than my
that need to be changed." Presidents Council and the 
rderr()d to is in Article XVI. stating that he was wrongfully situation," Helland said.
The committee listed among Office of the Student Body
Section I of the Student Body dismissed due to his religious "Every Circuit Court has differ­
its goals reform of the Student President.· Committee members 
constitution. It reads, "Any beliefs. U.S. District Judge ent rulings on this issue, and a
Senate and increased commu­that offered their expertise in 
amendment to this constitution Robert Miller ruled against decision in this case [at the
nication between organizations. these fields included Leen, 
may be presented to the Helland, with that ruling later Supreme Court Ievell would
The General Senate Reform Kelly, current Student Body
Student Senate by any individ­being upheld in the 7th Circuit give public school teachers
Subcommittee was proposed at President Seth Miller, and three 
ual student or student organi­Court of Appeals. clear guidelines and standards
the beginning of the meeting. members of the Hall Presidents 
zation." Fourth-year Notre Dame law on their religious freedoms in
"We have to look at the process Council. 
lie indicated that even though student Tom Arkell assisted the classroom." 
of how the Student Senate Another major point that the 
the first committee members Helland, who was acting as his In Helland's termination let­
operates and who sits on the committee members discussed 
were also high ranking officials own counsel, with the formali­ter, John Hemphill, the corpo­
Senate," said Mark Leen, a sen­was a lack of communication 
in each of their organizations, ties of the process-such as fil­ration's assistant director of
ator and member of the com­between the members of 
they came together merely as ing motions and writing legal human resources and services,
mittee. He also indicated that Student Government, SUB, and 
individual students to suggest briefs-throughout the district stated that Helland was termi­
issues to be addressed include the Office of Student Activities. 
these changes. "We are stu­and circuit court level. nated as a result of "discussion
the purpose and content of the 
dents that have a particular "It was great legal experi­
major elected bodies on cam-
see REFORM I page 4 see SCH00L I page 4 




Retired general outlines NASA plan for Mars 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN the plan is there for the next helium-3 that exists in the first of the planet. Assistant News Editor 25 to 30 years." few layers of ground there. "[Exploring Mars] is a chal­Stafford organized and "That element can be used in lenge too because it is so much 
The National Aeronautics chaired the Synthesis Group in fusion," Stafford said. "If we further away than anything and Space Administration 1990. The group was con­were to mine it from the that we have tried before," plans to begin assembling an vened by Dan Quayle, then moon, bring back 25 tons and Stafford said. "At its closest international space station in vice president of the United put it into fusion, it would be point [in the planet's orbit] it is orbit around the Earth in States, and Admiral Richard enough to power the U.S. for 35 million miles from Earth." November 1997, according to Truly, then the NASA adminis­the year 2000." The logistics of the program Thomas Stafford, a retired Air trator, to study the possibili­The element is not found on could slow down the progress Force general and astronaut. ties for exploration of Mars the Earth, according to towards manned exploration 
The station will consist of and a permanent station on Stafford, because it is positive­of Mars, according to Stafford. American and Russian compo­the moon. ly charged and thus does not He does, however, see the plan nents, Stafford said. He also "We are looking into a per­penetrate the Van Allen radia­proceeding, if only at a slower indicated that it represents the manent artificial environment tion belt. pace than first expected. next step in the further explo­on the moon," Stafford said. As far as the expedition to "In order to get to that point, ration of the near solar sys­"The environment is going to Mars is concerned, Stafford [where it is safe to send an tem. be tried out on the space sta­sees it as the next logical step astronaut to Mars] we have to 
"We have a schedule that tion first, then converted to for the space program. revitalize old technologies and would put us back on the the project on the moon." "There are a lot of unique utilize new technologies," he moon by 2002 and exploring Reasons for creating a per­processes going on on Mars," said. "The Russians were far Mars by 2014," he said. "We manent station on the moon he said, citing large canyons 
see MARS I page 4
may not make those times, but include the ability to mine the and volcanoes on the surface 



Miami Shuttling Program sets national trend 
Hditor's Note: This is the third in a three part series dealing with rape on the college cam­pus. 
By ANN KEARNS Assistant Saint Mary's Editor 
Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, is setting trends in its security department. 
Eleven years ago, Miami began a student-operated secu­rity program. It started with a walking escort service first run by members of Reserve Officers Training Corps. The program changed management several times, being run at one point by the Association to Women's Studies and later by the service fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega. 
This evolved into a van escort service, known as the Campus Assault Prevention program (CAP). Made up of male/female teams that bus students to dif­ferent parts of the campus or of the city, this security depart­ment is completely student run. They have their own telephone line which is answered by a student dispatcher, according to Det. John Barnhart, Miami University policeman. 
Sgt. Andrew Powers believes the program is effective because students feel more comfortable calling their own peers than campus security employees. People that are intoxicated are more likely to use the student-operated ser­vice instead of calling police or security guards, he said. 
Miami University's rape sta­tistics have remained consis­tent since 1993. According to 
reported rapes in each of 1993, 1994, and 1995. In 1996, between the months of January and July, there was one reported rape. 
The University of Notre Dame is now discussing gener­ating a program similar to that of Miami's CAP. If passed, it would be known as Safe-Rides, a spin-off of Safe-Walk. 
Molly Detgen, executive coor­dinator of Student Life, has been active in the planning of this program. Initially it would run between 10 p.m. and 3:30 a.m. 
ROTC members will help to initiate the service, according to Capt. Patrick Walsh, com­mandant of cadets of the Army ROTC at Notre Dame. The members will work in pairs and serve as drivers. They will drive Saint Mary's and Notre address if it is within a two mile radius of Saint Mary's or Notre Dame, according to Detgen. 
"[The ROTC participants] are willing to do this as a service, but they don't want it abused as an excuse to drink too much. This is not meant to be a drunk wagon," Walsh said. 




-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
What ntakes Christmas so romantic? 
It's snowing, and your sweetheart's got a red sweater on. Iter cheeks are cold and rosy, she's smiling, and you swear you've never heard any­one hum "Jingle Bells" so well. Instead of entertain­ing your typical erotic fantasies that she usually inspires, you're musing about decorating the tree with your kids and saying to your wife. "Would you like some more egg nog. my little elf?" 
For some reason, the Christmas season inspires romance and a purer kind of it: affec­tion that is cozy, comfortable and sentimental. 
What is it about Christmas that makes us excessively cheezy and passionate? You never sec lovers pointing and cooing in front of store windows the week before Halloween. There's nothing provocative about Easter. And why should chopping down a Christmas tree-it's cold, one of you is being entirely too picky, you're forced to pay for something that you could find for free in a forest anyway-be so much more romantic than picking out a Thanksgiving turkey in the frozen foods sec­tion? 
And Christmas is, after all, a religious holi­day. It commemorates the birth of our Savior: a Savior conceived not in passion, but virginity. So where does the romance come from? Somehow that sacred moment has become the impetus for a whole month of infinite cuddles and kisses. Although originating with the visit of three royal intelleclo; and a couple of shep­herds who had a small party in a haystack, somewhere along the line Cupid found his way to the scene. 
In struggling to find the explanation for why this religious holiday has turned quasi-sensual and seductive. here's what I've come up with: 
• 
Mistletoe is difficult to identify. In fact, nobody seems to know what it looks like. To be safe, you wind up kissing under anything that's green and leafy. 

• 
It's cold. Hand-holding is perfectly legit. 

• 
There is something so intimate about sitting close to someone and praying with them in church. 

• 
Too much spiked egg nog. 

• 
The whole holiday's based on birth. Heck, even Santa's got his Mrs. C. And although they don't claim children of their own, how else do you explain all those elves? 

• 
Men who venture into Victoria's Secret to buy their lover/wifc/"other" a gift get so embarrassed they wind up letting a devious saleswoman do the picking. The guy unfailingly walks out of the store with something skimpy and red. 

• 
Any holiday that's stored in a box for the majority of the year has a lot of pent up frus­tration to release. 

• 
If you arnn't pressed up against your dar­ling while shopping, you are bound to get gonged by a Salvation Army bell or hit on by a suspiciously sloppy Santa. 

• 
Women can be awfully sexy when it comes to hinting at gift-giving ideas. 


So, however the spirit moves you, let it inspire caresses. as well as blessings and wish­es of good cheer. Start by punctuating holiday rnquests with kisses. If he looks at you strange­ly, just point to something green and leafy nearby. Chances are he won't know it's not mistletoe. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Viewpoint  
Marrhew Loughran Jillian Pagliocca Sports Mike Day Allison Krilla  Ethan Hayward Production Belle Bautista John Hutchinson Lab Tech  
Graphics Jon King  Brandon Candura Accent Joe Weiler  

The Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xc~p[ during exam and vacation periods, The: Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All r~producrion rights ar~ reserved. 
Wednesday, December 1 1, 1996
The Observer • INSIDE 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 

Zairian rebels take last major northeastern city easily 

BENI, Zaire Zairian troops have fled the last major government-held city in north­eastern Zaire, destroying homes with rockets and looting the city before leav­ing it to rebel forces, residents said Tuesday. Bunia, a trading center near the bor­
der with central Uganda. was calm Tuesday. Residents said the soldiers left without a fight. 
Radio CANDIP. a local station that had not broadcast for three days, went on the air Tuesday morning with mes­sages from people calling on their friends and family to return. 
Residents heard over ham radio said they were ecstatic that the rebels had finally arrived. 

Rebels of the Alliance of Democratic Forces for Liberation have encountered little resistance in their eight-week push north through eastern Zaire. They have claimed control of more than 310 miles of territory along the eastern bor­der, and say they intend to press on to Kinshasa, the capital hundreds of miles to the west. 


President Mobutu Sese Seko is in France after cancer treatment in Switzerland. His protocol chief. Bosco 
Bennett accuses Universal Studios 
WASHINGTON 
Former Education Secretary William Bennett, an outspoken conservative voice on issues of morality, said today Universal Studios Inc. is violating a commitment not to distribute profane or violent music. Universal Studios, for­merly MCA Inc.. sells music recordings under the MCA and Geffen labels. "MCA now joins other corporations in 


America in trying to make as much money as it can out of the wreckage of civilization," Bennett said at a news con­ference. "Their word is not worth anything." When lnterscope Records -the label behind some of music's most controversial rappers -moved to MCA in February, MCA said they "would not profit from or dis­tribute music they found ofl'ensive," said Bennett's aide, Christian Pinkston. lnterscope artists included "gangsta" rapper Snoop Doggy Dogg and the late Tupac Shakur. But so far, MCA has failed to live up to its commitment, according to Bennett, Sen. Joseph Lieberman, D-Conn., and C. DeLores Tucker of the National Political Congress of Black Women. 
Ritalin doses increase for children 
CHICAGO 

Doctors use about 2 1/2 times more Ritalin for hyperac­tive and inattentive children now than in 1990, a far smaller increase than the alarming sixfold rise that some reports have suggested, researchers say. About 1.5 mil­lion young people ages 5 through 18 take the drug for relief from attention and hyperactivity disorders, the researchers reported in the December issue of Pediatrics, the journal of the American Academy of Pediatrics. Some politicians and policymakers have suggested that Ritalin is being overprescribed for youngsters. The new study, led by Dr. Daniel Safer of Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine in Baltimore, did not address how much Ritalin use is appropriate. But it pronounced some estimates of its use exaggerated. The study was based on regional and national surveys of Ritalin use. The researchers said recent increases in Ritalin use appear to be due in part to the drug's improved image and children being kept on it longer. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 11.
AccuWeathere forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


H Wednespay 4, 42 34 Thursd~y ~ 42 33 Friday ( l 42 30 

FRONTS: 
~ ....._._ ...............
Saturday ~ 38 27 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L
Sund~f ~ 36 26 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~M'""'-..v'''"'-!  
Atlanta  63  51  Fairbanks  ·9  ·16  New York  45  40  
4,~,~9.~8 Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow Ice VIS Associated Press GraphicsNer  ~ Sunny  ~ u Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Boston Chicago Dallas Denver  37 38 73 54  34 34 47 35  Honolulu 82 Los Angeles 70 Miami 79 New Orleans 76  67 53 63 62  Philadelphia 49 Phoenix 76 St. Louis 48 Sea«le 44  40 53 42 37  

Cassoubia, told The Associated Press Tuesday that the president would return to Zaire next week, although the exact date is undecided. 
"The president is obliged to cut short his convalescence," Cassoubia said. The 66-year-old president has been out of Zaire since August. 
Command of Bunia could help the rebels consolidate control over eastern Zaire. With the city's airport in rebel hands, the government could have a hard time moving in troops and equip­ment for a counterattack. 
Bunia also is the site of gold mines, including one belonging to Mobutu. 
The rebels had claimed to have sur­rounded and taken control of all roads last week. It was not clear how the sol­diers got away. 
A large plane landed in Bunia on Monday to evacuate senior Zairian offi­cers to Kinshasa, leaving most of the soldiers behind, one resident said. 
With rebels advancing from the south 

and west, the Zairian troops fled north toward the Ugandan and Sudanese borders, according to residents reached by ham radio from Beni, 100 miles south. 
Sailors charged in Thanksgiving rape 
GROTON, Conn 

Three sailors stationed at a submarine base are accused of plying a 16-year-old girl with liquor and sexu­ally assaulting her on Thanksgiving night at a motel run by the Navy. Lionel A. Benjamin. 19, and Raymond Johnson, 17, were arrested Monday on charges they raped the girl after a night of dancing and drinking. A third sailor, Luis C. Jones, 20, was charged with a lesser count of sexual assault and attempted sexual assault. They were jailed on $100,000 bail each and could get up to 20 years in prison. A fourth sailor, Greg Watkins, told police he was in the room but did not take part in the attack. He backed up most of the girl's story, according to court papers. Watkins has not been charged. The girl, a lOth-grade student, told police she met the sailors at the restaurant where she works as a waitress. The sailors. whose hometowns were not released, are newly enlisted at the Naval Submarine School in Groton. The girl told police she met the sailors at the restaurant and was attacked after going back with them to the Navy lodge to party, get drunk and smoke marijuana. The lodge, a motel for Navy personnel and their families, is a few blocks from the base. 
Safety agency recommends crib test 
WASIIINGTON 

A government safety agency moved Tuesday to develop a mandatory test for measuring the strength of the slats in children's cribs. The Consumer Product Safety Commission voted 2-1 to go forward with its rule making because it said months of negotiations with the child fur­niture industry over an improved voluntary standard have resulted in no action. The agency has received 138 reports since January 1985 of crib slats that were loose, missing or broken-including 12 deaths and five injuries to children who got stuck in the space created by the missing slats. Five crib manufacturers have recalled more than 670,000 cribs since 1991 because of problems with the slats, including four recalls in 1995 and this year, and offered consumers free replacement parts. "Manufacturers will now know there's a performance test that the cribs have to meet," said Mary Ellen Fise, general counsel for the Consumer Federation of America, which has pushed for the standard. 
A weekly section from The Observer News Department 
Today ... 

The First Year of Studies 
With finals just a few short days away and most of campus cramming, the Departments Page takes a look at the First Year of Studies, and the work they do to make sure students learn to study the right way. 




Learning Resource Center aids freshmen 
By JUSTYN HARKIN 
D~parrmenrs Page Ediror 
Since 1962, the University of Notre Dame has been accepting all freshmen into a First Year of Studies curriculum in an effort to ensure a more well-rounded education. Requirements of the Firs~ Year of Studies include courses in English, foreign language, theology, history, mathemat­ics, natural science, and social science. All first year students are provided with academic advi­sors who meet with them over the course of the ynar. 
According to Eileen Kolman, dean of the pro­gram, the advisors help students decide on which colleges to enter and what majors to choose. Advisors also receive the results of all midterms and major departmental exams in order to oversee the progress of each student. 

K o I m a n -------------------people from yourboasts the own class,"
e· 

success of the . .·. ' 'Math is not a spectator sport. Erfan said. 
program by · · Collaborative stating that ,_ ..:·.. You have to participate.' groups meet 
to 12 students, and language tutoring is often on a one-on-one basis. 
Erfan adds that most students do not realize that tutors are available for all courses, not just math and science. Elective courses with tutors include 100 level classes in economics, engineer­ing, anthropology, and psychology. If a formal tutoring program is not available in a given course, a referral to the department can be made. "No one ever gets turned away," said Erfan. 
An additional resource of the LRC includes col­laborative learning groups for courses in math and science. These groups consist of four to six students and a tutor. Each student in a collabo­rative group helps the other group members with their homework. In order to ensure uniform progress, group members are selected from the same course section. "You should be [kept] with 
98 percent of  , 1  ,  ·;  
all freshman  ""··  •  
finish  the  
yP.ar, 96 per­ 
eent  of  all  

l'rr,shman will return as sophomores, and that 94 pr,rcent will graduate. 
Kolman notes that one of the goals of the First Year of Studies is to help students to develop good study habits early so they can cope with college caliber work. Frequently students will come in asking for help by themselves; however they can also be referred by their professors, or nven their rectors. 
Although most students can choose whether they wish to receive additional help, probation­ary students with GPAs less than 1.7 do not have thn option. "When a student goes on probation, something "vent wrong and something has to change," said Kolman. 
Perhaps one of the greatest resources of the First Year of Studies is the Learning Resource Center (LRC). The center offers programs in tutoring, collaborative learning, math work­shops, and learning strategies workshops in addition to test files, interest tests, and a career library. 
Nahid Erfan, the center's director, claims that with all the available help, first year students have no excuse for poor grades. "What's the nxcuse for bad grades?" she said. "They have so much help [available to them]; they only have to ask for it." 
The LRC has 88 tutors available for all fresh­man year courses. Tutoring groups consist of 10 
twice a week Eileen Kolman throughout the 
semester and have an atten­dance policy. 
Kolman comments on the effectiveness of the groups: "Math is not a spectator sport. You have to participate." Erfan notes that the student needs to be an active member of the group in order to get any benefit from the experience. The student is considered a team member, how­ever, and excessive absences will warrant a dis­missal from the group. 
For students who only need occasional help, the LRC offers a series of math workshops. The workshops are offered once a week and operate on a walk-in basis. Unlike tutoring and collabo­rative learning, the math workshops do not 

· require a student to sign up with his or her advi­sor. Freshman who find they are having difficulties with their writing are encouraged to consult Sandra Harmatiuk, an associate professional specialist. Harmatiuk offers individual assistance with term papers by appointment, but also has open hours for walk-ins. Harmatiuk also offers workshops on test taking and time management skills. The workshops run for 50 minutes and students have the option of seeking additional assistance where individual needs can be addressed. For more information, consult the First Year of Studies' homepage at http://www.nd.edu:80/n fresh/. All of the tutoring programs available from the LRC are free of charge. 
It's not too late for help 
1
's 4:30 a.m on your first day of finals, and sometime between now and 8 a.m. you're going to have to teach yourself an entire semester of finite mathematics. Frequent trips to the bathroom because of the multiple liters of caffeine-rich Mountain Dew coursing _through your veins have caused you to move your desk into the stall to maximize productivity. 
The sun will soon be up, you haven't even begun to study for the theolo­gy final later rr===============;;::;~ this after-Finals Review Sessions 
noon, and you Course Course# Day Date 1• Time 
still can't fig-Bios 101 
~:~ooau~~t~~ Chern mn 
Chern 115n problem. You Chern nsn contemplate Chern usn 
waking up Chern mn Your sleeping Chern usn 
Chern IISn

roommate for help but you Math 104 stop yourself 
because you Math 105 realize that Math 111 not even 
Einstein him-Math 119 self can save Math tl9 you now. You Math 125 think "If only Math 125 I started sooner. . ... Math 126 
Fortunately, Phys 127 even with the few short Psytlw&'~tJ' 
FRI 12/13{ 10:00-12:00 AM MON 12/~~~\1::3CH0:30 
PM FRI 12/13<'12:15-2:15 PM FRI 12/13M4Q:00-12:00 AM FRI 12113· 12:15-2:1S PM 
SAT 12/14 1:00'3:00 PM MON 12116 2:304:30 PM TUE 12/17 12:15-iiS PM 
, ·... TttB 12/13 4:006:00 PM 

FRI 121}3 'tQ-.00,12:00 AM 
FRI ]2/13 12:15-2:15 PM Room 116 LRC 
114LRC 113LRC IISLRC 114LRC 118 LRC 118LRC 117LRC 
123 NSH 
2040'SH 
113LRC 
li6LRC 118NSH 
2040'SH LRC,M 
116LRC 
113 LRC 
1IItRt 

days that Fo;~~;n~:~:nR:~::~::~~~LCRat634-5294
remain in this 
.____________________J semester. the scenario described above can be prevented. The Learning Resource Center, located behind the Main Building in 
Brownson Hall, will organize help and study sessions for all students enrolled in 100 level classes. 
The LRC will be open during reading days and finals until 5 p.m. where students can sit in on last minute study ses­sions, consult old test files and lecture notes (a copy machine is available in the building), or receive advice on test taking strategies and, ironically enough, time manage­ment skills. 
-Justyn Harkin 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 11, 1996 
Spelman College, located in right to discuss religion in the 
Atlanta, Ga., is an all women's classroom in response to stu­school in the center of a college dent questions during a lecture continued from page 1 town. Spelman's primary secu­continued from page 1 on evolution. 

Rape Refor01 School 
continued from page 1 

rity measure is its shuttle bus, Statistically, the chances ofPhil Johnson, assistant providing students with trans­"Often [Student Activities] of religion and evolutionary the­Helland's case being heard bydirector of Notre Dame 
portation to other local colleges 
plans events and SUB plans ories," and because he "brought the Supreme Court are slim, asSecurity, feels that binge as well as to the closest public 
events without one telling the a Bible into the classroom" in the Court receives over 6,000
drinking plays an integral role 

transportation stations. It runs 
other what is going on in 1993. petitions yearly, and only
in sexual assaults. "Our com­

until 2 a.m., which is the cur­
either office," said Kelly. The The letter later cited refer­accepts 45 to 60, according to
munities have to address sub­

few for the freshmen. The 
directors of SUB agreed and ences to 1992, when Helland Pombert. 
stance abuse and its role in security department was 
added that often Student was informed of concerns of his "It's a long shot," Helland
the crime," he said. 

unable to comment on 
Activities simply overruled "involvement in religious discus­said. "But no one ever thought
According to Johnson, when 

Spelman's rape statistics. 
SUB events with their own sions," "reading the Bible in the it would get this far. But we
students are intoxicated, they 

Wellesley College is also an 
programming. classroom," and "not following have a strong, factual ease." 
are more likely to make the 

all women's school with an 
This led the committee to lesson plans and problems with Pombert maintains that the
unwise decision of walking 

enrollment of approximately 
form a SUB/Student classroom management." ease does have strong potential 
horne at 4 a.m. or going to 2,500 students. Frank 
Government/Student Activities Helland and his lawyers main­particularly because it inter­
someone's apartment who 

O'Donnell, campus chief of 
Link Subcommittee to study tain that the 1993 incidents twines numerous First
they do not know. 

police, admits that the students 
ways of increasing communi­sparked his termination, and, as Amendment issues, including
Adrian Duran, co-president 

are not well-protected. "The 
cation between these three a result, violated his free exer­Congress' Heligious Freedom
of Campus Alliance for Hape 

students here are on their 
offices. "We would like some cise of religion rights and his Restoration Act.
Elimination (CAHE) believes 

own," he said. 
of this to be a guide for academic freedom rights under "Teachers and students
thn Safe-Hides program will 

Wellesley does offer a shuttle; 
Student Activities," said Miller. the First Amendment. should not shed their rights to
improve campus safety, by giv­

however, it only takes students 
"How can we have continuity According to the petition to religious freedom when they
ing students the option of call­

to the Massachusetts Institute 
when the links between the Supreme Court written by enter the classroom," Helland
ing other students. "We're 

of Technology. O'Donnell also 
departments do not exist?" Jeffrey Pombert of Bird and said. "Schools should teach 
pners. We're all in the same 

stated that in 1995, there were 
The committee also deter­Associates, an Atlanta law firm moral improvement, but teach­
boat," according to Duran. 

three reported rapes which 
mined that they would form a noted for its Supreme Court vic­ers are seared to death to talk
In a look at other women's 

were proven and one which 
Club Empowerment tories in religious rights cases, about it. This case deals with
colleges: 

went unproven. 
Subcommittee and an Helland was justified to bring a issues involving the freedoms Organizational Continuity Bible to silently read during his that teachers have in the class­Subcommittee to deal with planning period, and he had the rooms."
make them more efficient and 
clubs and other campus orga­
easier to use."

Mars 

nizations in the same issues
Stafford is a retired three 
that the Link Subcommittee is
continued from page 1 star general in the United 
dealing with. 

States Air Force. He became a 
The final subcommittee
more advanced on how to Gemini and Apollo astronaut 
formed was the Spending
counteract the effects of pro­in 1962 and served in that 
Heview Subcommittee which
longed weightlessness and capacity and as deputy chief of 
will review the budgets and
they have an old thruster staff of research. development 
funding for every club.
model that would be very and acquisition for the Air 
Student Body Treasurer Erin
nffective. Force until he retired in 1979. 
Hoffmann offered information
"As far as new technology lie was the head of the 
from her office to the subcom­
goes, we have looked into dif­Astronaut Group during the 
mittee in reference to these
ferent ways of constructing the Apollo 13 crisis and comman­
subjects.

gnar, such as the spacesuit, to der of Apollo 10 in 1969. 



Please Recycle The 0 bserver 


Sixty of Your Favorite Men Cordially Invite You To An Evening Filled With Good Friends, Holiday Cheer, and Song 


GJ.€eC~OO 



ri~tm~~ 

Saturday, December 14th 
6:00 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. 
Proceeds Will Benefit the South Bend Center for the Homeless Tick~ets May Be Purchased at LaFortune Student Center Tick.et Office Haggar College Center at St. Mary's College Little Professor Book Center in South Bend 



L_______________________________________________________________ ----­

Wednesday, December II ,_I996 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
'Jeopardy!' will broadcast 


Torma's spot in two weeks ND/SMC shuttle a 'service' 
FIESTA 
•

<?
s 
0 
. ~ ~ 
~ 
OJJVJC\(\~ 
featuring the music of 

Sabor Latino 
OV\r best Christmas C\i~

Celebrating ACE's Expanded Service 
Ever!

in the 
12/25/74, 11:59 

Catholic Schools ofTexas p.m, \!oV\ made it jV\st iVl time!
Thursday, January 23 9:00PM-12:00 Midnight 
Love1 Mmn1 Dad1 DoV\V\C\1Center For Social Concerns Chl"is1 & Cal"olyVI 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Editor 
Over midsemester break, a dream came true for senior Mark Torma. 
And. in two weeks, millions of viewers will watch it unfold on national television, as Torma will appear as a con­testant on the nationally syndi­cated game show, Jeopardy! 
"I still can't believe that I'm going to be sitting down on Dec. 27, watching myself on national television," said Torma. "It still hasn't sunk in. The whole experience of being on the show was simply out of this world." 
Looking back on his time behind the buzzer, the St. Ed's senior said, "It wasn't until I was driving home [from Los Angeles] that I realized that I actually lived out a dream of mine. I've been watching Jeopardy! for 14 years." 
Despite confidence gained from two of his favorite cate­gories. the Oscars and world 
IMerry Christmas and Happy New Year. I 

The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Bi-Weekly Columnist 
Please submit a writing sample and a letter of intent to Ethan Hayward by Wednesday, December 18th. All students, faculty, and staff welcome to apply. 



iACE GOES LATIN! 
capitals on the board, Torma By ALYSSON COOK said, "It's far more difficult to News Writer 
do than anyone realizes. When I first got behind the contes­tant booth, I was trying to stay calm, but my legs were trem­bling so badly." 
Torma auditioned for the show in September, where he was required completed a 50­question written test, along with a mock Jeopardy! game, before being selected as one of 440 people who appear on the show yearly. 
After signing a contract with Jeopardy! officials before the taping, swearing him to secre­cy of the final results until the show's airing, Torma simply stated, "I did very well." 
Jeopardy!, known as the number one quiz show in America, as cited by Neilsen ratings, is broadcast at 2:30 
p.m. in Michiana on WBND channel 58, the local ABC affil­iate. 
The show in which Torma competes airs on Dec. 27 of this year. 

Integral to many Saint Mary's and Notre Dame students' logistical movements, shuttle drivers chauffer students between the two campuses seven days a week. 
One driver, Donna Taber, has worked for the United Limo shuttle service since it began seventeen years ago. "The ser­vice was started by a used car salesman. His college-aged sons were always flying back and forth to O'Hare airport in The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 
Steve "Santa" Springer buses students back and forth to Saint
Chicago and needed to get 
Mary's and Notre Dame all day , giving them advice during the trip. 
back to South Bend," said Taber. "He knew other fami­O'Hare route, Taber saw Siskel bird gets the germ' meaning, if lies were going through the and Ebert and said, "they just you worry and let the gloom same thing, so he started dri­didn't recognize me". get to you, that's how you get ving two used station wagons Steve "Santa" Springer is sick." to Chicago ana back three another shuttle driver on the Springer was a youth minis­times a day," she continued. Saint Mary's/Notre Dame ter for thirty-three years, and 
Taber has worked on the route. also led bicycle tours between Saint Mary's/Notre Dame route He advises his riders that San Francisco and Seattle for for three years. While on her "it's all in the way one junior high and high school 
approaches life. 'The surly adolescents. 

Police urge holiday security 
Special to The Observer 
Area police departments are urging off-campus students to take precautions with their res­idences before leaving for the Christmas holiday break. 
"There are specific precau­tions students can take to reduce the chances of being a target for burglars," said Phil Johnson, assistant director of Notre Dame Security. "The Student Home Watch Program, offered by local police, and the Christmas break storage, offered by ND Security/Police help keep your property safe." 
Lt. Wanda Shock, head of the 
South Bend Police Crime 
Prevention Unit, suggests that 
students sign up for the Student 
Home Watch Program offered by local Michiana police agen­cies. 

"By signing up for this pro­gram, police officers will make periodic checks of your home," she said. "Students should con­tact the police department responsible for their neighbor­hood and should coordinate their requests so that only one roommate per residence regis­ters in the program." 
Off-campus students can also store their property at the Notre Dame Security building on Dec. 19 and 20 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. 
Michiana police departments also recommend the following measures to ensure the safety of students' valuables: 
• 
Make sure every exterior door has a sturdy, well­installed deadbolt with a mini­mum 1.5 inch bolt. 

• 
Do not hide keys in mail­boxes, planters or under door­mats. 

• 
Request the Post Office to stop your mail for the duration 


of the break. This will prevent tipping off a criminal that you are not home through an excessive build up of mail. 
• 
Stop newspaper delivery during your Christmas break. 

• 
Lock all doors and windows and keep all drapes, shades and curtains closed. 

• 
Keep a written record of all your furniture and electronic products and put them in a safe place. It also helps to engrave your items with your driver's license number so that police might easily track any stolen items. 

• 
Notify your landlord that you will be away for break. They can help watch for strange occurrences involving your residence and notify the police if necessary. 


Any questions about the two programs or anything else con­cerning security over break can be addressed to Notre Dame Security at 631-8338, or the South Bend Crime Prevention Unit at 235-9037. 


•


ourtJUS 
By LAURIE ASSEO 
Associated Pres.~ Wrirer 

WASHINGTON 
In a case pitting public safety against individual freedom, the Supreme Court was urged Tuesday to let states keep sex­ually violent predators locked up after they complete their prison sentences. 
Confinemnnt is justified when someone has been diag­nosed as mentally abnormiil and is liktlly to commit new acts of sexual violence, Kansas Attorney General Carla J. Stovall said. 
But an admitted pedophile's lawyer argued that the Kansas law creates unconstitutional double punishment for the sam£' erime. 
"I don't believe we can incarcHrattl people solely because they have the possibil­ity of committing a criminal act," said Thomas J. Weilert, the lawyer for Leroy Hendricks. 


Nazi aids get citizenship revoked 
The Observer· WASHINGTON NEWS Wednesday, December 11, 1996 
,,::·:·=·=·;:::;:w:)}f4:::·: ··=···ifh=== 
''What is the state supposed . to do, just wait until he goes out and does it again?" asked Chief Justice William,wH;, Rehnquist. · ··· 
Hendricks, who was convict-0 ed tlve times of child molest­ing, has said his death is the only way to guarantee he won't commit new crimes against children. 
But the Kansas Supreme Court said the law violated his right to due process because it let the state confine him with~ out proof of mental illness. 
The Kansas law requires a judge or jury to decide whether someone convicted of a sexually violnnt crime has a mental abnormality and is likely to commit new predatory acts. 
Anyone committed to a men· tal health facility under the law is entitled to a new evalua­tion every year. 
Five other states have simi­lar laws: Arizona. California, Minnesota, Washington and nosis of'· 
abnormality" .!Jls~~ad. 9f men 
tal illness. p·w·"'~"·+" ···' ·· 
She noted tb.e justices have let states set their own defmi­tions of mental illness and added, "Maybe this boils down to whether this particular con­dition of pedophilia" qualifies. 
"What's the magic to the term 'mentally ill'?': added Justice John Paul Stevehs. 
Stovall said the Kansas Jaw was limited to people convict­ed of sexually predatory crimes in an effort to "identify those that pose the greatest risk to thn community." 
"We've never looked at civil commitment as punishment" for a crime, Stovall added. 
Some justices appeared trou­bled by Weilert's argument that people cannot be confined in an effort to protect society. 

By MICHAEL SNIFFEN 
A~sociated Press Writer 
WASIIINGTON 

The Justice Department sued on Tuesday to nwoke the citi­zenship of a retired physician on grounds he aided Nazi per­secution of Jews in Lithuania during World War II. 
The department's Office of Special Investigations, which hunts war criminals in this country, alleged that Adolph Milius, 78, of St. Petersburg Beach, Fla., was a member of the Lithuanian Security Police, known as the Saugumas, at least during the summer and fall of 1941. 
During his service in the unit, Milius, also known as Adolfas Milinavicius. participated in Nazi-sponsored acts of persecu­tion in Vilnius province, includ­ing the arrest of Jews seeking to escape the ghetto, the govern­ment said, citing wartime records in the Lithuanian Central State Archives. The Jews were taken to Saugumas headquarters, searched and jailed. 
Milius could not be reached for comment. This was the third govern­
ment effort this year against former members of the Saugumas. "The Vilnius province Saugumas played a key role in the annihilation of more than 50,000 Jews in Vilnius," said Eli M. Bosenbaum, head of the special investigations office. 
In May, Aleksandras Lileikis, former Vilnius province chief of the Saugumas. was stripped of his U.S. citizenship by a federal court in Boston, which cited his involvement in the arrest of Jews and their subsequent turnover to a special execution squad. 
Clinton emphasizes women's rights, issues 
By SONYA ROSS 
Associated Press Writer 

WASHINGTON 
President Clinton urged the Senate Tuesday to embrace a 17 -year-old treaty barring abus­es against women, to show com­mitment to "the unfin­ished task of extending freedom's reach." 
The presi­dent made women's issues the focus of his activities on International Human Rights Day. He met with six women activists and pledged to build upon a commitment he made earlier this year for $5 million to support women in Bosnia. 
"Today, we dedicate ourselves to the unfinished task of extend­ing freedom's reach," Clinton said. 
"History shows that nations where rights are respected and governments arc freely chosen are more likely to be partners in peace and prosperity." 
Clinton urged the Senate to ratify the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, a treaty approved by the United Nations in 1979. Many other nations have approved the mea­sure, Clinton noted, and the United States, "where we have worked so hard to empower women," has proerastinatnd far too long. 
"It is, to say the least, an embarrassment that the United States has not done this," Clinton said. "There is no excuse for this situation to con­tinue." 

llis administration also is pushing $4 million in new initia­tives, including $1 million toward relief for Bwandan women, $1 million for an anti­discrimination consortium· for Asian women and $1 million toward empowerment of women in Africa. 
The treaty, already ratified by more than 130 nations, was adopted by the U.N. General Assembly in December 1979 and signed by President Carter in July 1980. 
It was not submitted for Senate approval until November 1980-after Carter had lost to Ronald Beagan. Neither President Beagan nor his sue­ccssor, President Bush, sought ratilication. 
Among other things, the treaty requires that women have equal rights to work, pay, benelits and safe working t:ondi­tions. It prohibits discrimination against women in political activ­ities and requires a minimum age for marriage. 
Clinton piekcd up on some of the concerns that first lady Hillary Bodham Clinton raised in China a year ago. Ile thanked his wife for "bringing back to me the knowledge" about efforts on behalf of women and girls. 
Last year, at a U.N. confer­ence on women, Mrs. Clinton criticized customs in some parts of the world that routinely vic­timize women, saying they rep­resent some of the most blatant human rights violations. 

~•lfi996 :f::':. Co~Uier; Inc. AlJ righls resm>ed Af!Pk, the.Af!Pk logo, Mac, Macinlosb, Performa, Power Maci~losh and S/ykwtiler are registered trademarks ofAppk Computer, Inc. Apple mail-in rebate offer validfrom NotJember 2, 1996, through january 19, 1997, wbik supplies last and subjecJ to atKiilabilily. 7b qual· ~-~~-"'!'f:.'}e;}. -~~~':!!,.an Aif!e...!':onilor (ifsold sepamlely) must he purchased on the same tni!Qtee. Offer good on any Macmlosh desktop computer u~th any Appk printer. Void where prohibited by Jaw. See parlicipahng resellerfor further rules and details AU Macintosh rom~>nters are desi""ed to he 
.......,,.,.. ro "'"owu"""' wuo """""ily. 7/J """' more (US. only). caU 800-600-7808 or m 800-755-0601. · ...,. 0 " 
Wednesday, December 11, 1996 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page? 
Pope will not preside NobellVinners plead for peace 

over Christmas Mass 
By DANIEL WAKIN 
Associated Press Writer 
VATICAN CITY 

For the first time in 18 years, Pope John Paul II does not plan to celebrate Mass in St. Peter's Basilica on Christmas Day. He is under doc­tors' orders to slow down. 
T h e Vatican on Tuesday released the pope's busyschedule for John Paul II the Christmas season. It followed the 


appointments of past years except for the Dec. 25 Mass. The Vatican gave no explana­tion for the change, but said John Paul would celebrate midnight Mass on Christmas eve. 
Doctors counseled the 76­year-old pope to take it easy 
# 

after surgery on Oct. 8 to remove an inflamed appendix blamed for periodic bouts of fever and intestinal problems. 
One of those bouts may have been behind the pope's failure to appear at last Christmas Day's scheduled Mass. The Vatican at the time said the pope was suffering from "something like the flu." 
John Paul later that day appeared at his window over­looking St. Peter's Square, but cut his Christmas greetings short because of nausea. 
Also Tuesday, the Vatican confirmed the pope would visit Brazil in October for a meeting on family issues. Trips to Paris, the Czech Republic and Poland also are planned for next year. 
There has been speculation the pope will stop in Cuba dur­ing the Brazil trip-his only scheduled visit to the Western Hemisphere next year-but the announcement made no men­tion of a visit to Cuba. 
JUST GOT EVEN 






Better 

• 
Personalized Study Plans 

• 
Over 105 hours in class 

• 
Over 500 practice passages 

• 
Over 36 years of MCAT experience 

• 
The perfect balance of content and strategy 


c 

By DOUG MELLGREN .:..As~s!::o~ci~at~ed:!..P~r~es~s_:W,_,r"'ir,er____ ~~~~~~~~~-=---r~/·BLJRMA-: __, . .ht;,(MYANMARf ·'·\·-if, 
their resistance to Indonesia's occupation of their native East Timor. Indonesia considered 
OSLO, Norway A Roman Catholic bishop and an exiled activist who  1~·---'--==--;----==  J , . ' ·-~~~::-J":)  :~oui  
oppose Indonesia's occu­ 
pation  of  East  Timor  
accepted the Nobel Peace  
Prize Tuesday and praised  
the committee for bringing  
attention to the 21-year­ 
old "forgotten conflict."  
Bishop Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo, 48, and Jose Ramos Horta, 51, shared the honor in a cer­emony that was boycotted by Indonesian representa­tives. Ramos Horta offered his "deepest appreciation" to  Bishop Carlos Filipe Ximenes Belo, a prominent critic of abuses by Indonesian troops, and Jose Ramos-Horta, an advocate for independence sentiment in East Timor, accepted the 1996 Nobel Peace Prize for  500 miles c::s SOOkm  

the committee members 

the peace prize an insult and boycotted Tuesday's ceremony in Oslo.
for "your generosity in thinking of the wretched of the Earth and your courage in standing up to the might of states." 
Indonesian troops seized East Timor in 1975, and forcibly annexed it the next year. In announcing the Peace Prize on Oct. 11, the Nobel committee blamed Indonesia for wide­spread death, terror and perse­cution during its occupation of the former Portuguese colony of 720,000 people. 
Indonesia says it invaded East 
'97-98 4-8 Bedrooms, Fully furnished Security Systems Washers/Dryers call Pat @ 258-9996 


1-800-KAP-TEST 
www.kaplan.com 
Complete Packages From $429 Free Covers, Free Day Parties 
Discounts at shops and side excursions 
CANCUN Book now and Sunbreaks will throw in 15 FREE Meals!! Make your reservation today Space is Limited!! 
**** Spr•ing Break 97 Concert Festival Call For Info**** Swtbreak Student Vacations 
Lowest price 
for Info call 1-800-446-8355 
Guaranteed!!!
Http:/jwww.uresource.com/sunbreak 

~m );)8ih!2'¥!?'%WK!i'?";:&-zs.~~a:a:z:z_-n-a'm2.'a'Z'".e.u:a:z.:~:a:.;::a:<::~:~:r.u::z:z:z:n.·.a:3:z:;,~x~:~::&":R:&~'a~""""-"""'...,.dl 
sTRESS RELIEVEr Sunday December 15th Forget about finals... 9prn -12 am LaFortune Ballroom professional masseuse* pizza*games* coloring*fingerpainting* chocolate* photobuttons with Santa* and more fun stuff!! it's free & it's stress-free & it' s brought to you by... 

e 

page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December I I , 1996 
• BELGIUM 
Christopher to Russia: No nukes in Europe 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
Associarcd Press Wrirer 
BRUSSELS 

Seerntary of State Warren Christopher assured a nervous Bussia today that nuclear weapons would not bn deployed in Eastnrn and Central Europe if NATO proceeds with an east­ward nxpansion. 
But the former Soviet allies would be backed by the nuclnar-armed United States and the rest of NATO if they arc attacked, American officials said. 
Christopher offered the assurance to Hussia in his ninth and final speech to the North Atlantic Council. He is retiring next month. 
"We are declaring that in today's Europe, NATO has no intention, no plan and no need to station nuclear weapons on the territory of any new mem­bers," Christopher said. "We are affirming that no NATO nuclear forces are presently on alert." 
There was no immediate response from Hussian Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov. lie told Christopher tonight he would reserve a judgment until he meets with NATO ministnrs on Wednesday. 
llowever, Primakov did not shrink from criticizing NATO's plan to expand eastward to Hussia's border. "We treat this negatively," he told Christopher in an SO-minute meeting at NATO headquarters. 
Under the NATO charter the Unilnd States and the 15 other eurrent members "will enjoy the protnetion that comes with NATO membership," including nuclear weapons, State Department spokesman Nicholas Burns said later. 
Burns also stressed NATO would not be deterred from expanding eastward, whatever Russia's views. "No country will have a veto," he said. 
The NATO foreign ministers will hold a summit meeting July 8-9 in Madrid to expand the alliance by adding at least three Central and East European countries. probably in 1999. The NATO leaders then will invite some prospec­tive new members to begin negotiations to enter the alliance. 
It is an open secret that Poland. the Czech Republic and Hungary would be taken in and possibly Homania and Slovenia as well. 
The result will be a "dynamic alliance," reflecting changes in 

ARY 8RIGID 
~~··· ~~·· 
~~to.~. A~«~ t4e teed c¥ t4e 1~ Ut-att tka ~ M.! 
LOVE, 
MAC, MOONS, BIZ MH & SHAMROCK 

Europe, said Secretary-General Javier Solana. The alliance also will be ready to define a new relationship with Russia at the same time, Solana said in a speech to the North Atlantic Council. Negotiations will be offered to Ukraine, as well. 
In Washington, President Clinton said the meeting will help "forge a partnership with Russia" and bring into NATO "aspiring new members from Europe's new democracies." 
"My goal is to see them become full members by the time of NATO's 50th birthday in 1999," he said during remarks at a White House ceremony marking international human rights day. 
German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel proposed, mean­while, that NATO establish a committee to give Russia a voice in European security mat­ters. 
E xt ra  Pizz FREE EXTRAS a Sauce • Parmesan Cheese Crust Garlic Butter Crust -JustAsk- Notre Dame S.R. 23 & Ironwood  
".  I  '  ~-..  

.,CAMPUS SPECIAL 
LARGE DOUBLE TOPPER 
Onlv FREE DELIVERY ON CAMPUS No Coupon Necessary Not Valid With Any Other Offer Delivery Extra It Not On Campus Um~ed Time Offer 
Sub Choices 
•Italian 
•Ham & Cheese 

•Steak 
& Cheese 

•Veggle 
•Chicken Club 


Salad Choices 
•Italian •Greek 
1111•• Onllr Fir Dlllllll hll'llll Elln 011 Ca•••s ..a Nol valid wllh any olher oner 1111 hllC lllk All Olhl Olllr 1.11 ~ Minimum Ordar For Delivery 
---~------------­
In a commentary in the Berlin newspaper Der Tagesspiegel, Kinkel wrote: "As Europe comes together Russia and Ukraine must have a place that corresponds to their size and importance." 
He said security "can only be 
organized  with  these  two  
important  countries,  not  
against them."  

The projected eastward enlargement of the military alliance is alarming to Russia. 
Christopher also announced the allies had joined in endors­ing U.S. demands that Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic open a dialogue with opposition leaders and recognize last month's municipal elections. He threatened renewed sanetions unless Milosevic complied. 
"We join in condemning the Serbian government's deeision to ignore the results of the Nov. 17 elections," he said. 
in a prepared speech. "That decision must be reversed. The people of Serbia deserve what their neighbors in Central Europe have: clean elections." 
French Foreign Minister Herve de Charette, meanwhile, said, "We must clearly make it known to the Serbian leader­ship that we arc not prepared to accept the continued conduct that is contrary to universally accepted rules of democracy." 

otre 
ame 


ncounter 
A WEEKEND 
RETREAT EXPERIENCE 
GUIDED BY 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & 
STAFF 
An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourtell, your values, your relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
RETREAT 
JANUARY 31 ·FEBRUARY 2, 1997
DATES: 
FORMS 
AVAILABLE: December 9-13, 1996 
SIGN UP 
Before 4:00 p.m.-December 13
DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 0\MPUS 
-MINISTRY
COST: $25.00 
Two 12" 6·1tem Pizzas for $10°0 +tax 
Every Thursday All-You-Can-Eat Pizza &Pasta for $5,QQ • 6:00 p.m.• 8:30 p.m. • 

Wednesday, December 11, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• SOUTH AFRICA 


Convicted man gets amnesty Government announces 
Associated Press 
CAPE TOWN 

A white policeman convicted of 11 political murders walked out of prison Tuesday after being granted amnesty by a panel created to uncover apartheid-era abuses. 
Brian Mitchell, who had been serving a 30-year prison sen­tence, was the first former policeman to be pardoned by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. 
He left Pietermaritzburg prison in KwaZulu-Natal province Tuesday afternoon by a back entrance to avoid reporters. 
In a statement issued through his lawyer, Mitchell said his successful amnesty application proved the integrity of the Truth Commission. He encour­aged other members of apartheid security forces to seek amnesty. 
The deadline for applying for amnesty is Saturday, though commission chairman Desmond Tutu is seeking an extension. 
Many whites consider the commission a witch hunt against apartheid officials by President Nelson Mandela's African National Congress. The ANC said it accepted the deci­sion to grant amnesty to Mitchell, and that it hoped vic­tims of such crimes would receive reparations. 
Mitchell, former commander of the New Hanover police sta­tion in KwaZuJu-Natal province, was sentenced to death in 1992 on 11 counts of 

Must be 1 8 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 
Come to:  Hours:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  M-F: 9:00 -6:00  
515 Lincolnway West  SAT: 8:00-5:00  
South Bend, IN 46601-1 117  234-6010  

murder. The death sentence was commuted after the Constitutional Court outlawed capital punishment. 
Mitchell is the fourth person to receive amnesty from a spe­cial panel of the Truth Commission that will evaluate thousands of applications. 
The amnesty committee said it was satisfied that the 11 killings were politically moti­vated-a key requirement for amnesty. 
It said the crimes were part of a campaign against anti­apartheid groups and that Mitchell acted within the scope of his duties as a police officer. 
The committee said Mitchell was not present during a Dec. 3, 1988, attack on United Democratic Front activists that killed 11 people and wounded two in Trust Feeds, a village near New Hanover. 
However, the committee said "it is quite clear that the exe­cution of the whole plan was directed by him in his capacity as the station commander of the area." 
Only after the attack did police learn the wrong house had been targeted. 
study of war syndrome 
By SUE LEEMAN 

Associated Press Writer 
LONDON 

Britain announced a $2 mil­lion study Tuesday to investigate the source of ailments plaguing veterans of the Persian Gulf War, including muscle aches, fatigue and sleeplessness, col­lectively dubbed "Gulf War Syndrome." 
In a statement to Parliament, Armed Forces Minister Nicholas Soames said two leading inde­pendent scientists will lead stud­ies into whether the veterans are in worse health than they would be if they had not served in the gulf. 
They also will investigate whether veterans suffer "dis­proportionate difficulties" hav­ing children and whether such youngsters have an unusually high number of birth defects, he said. 
The government retains "an open mind about the question of whether there is or is not a Gulf­War Syndrome," Soames said. "Whatever the case, we are determined to get to the bottom of it." 
Last month, more than 1,000 British veterans who claim their health has deteriorated follow­ing the war said they will sue the government for compensa­tion. They claim they were poi­soned by a combination of pesti­cides and anti-nerve gas tablets. 
During the war, allied soldiers were given a powerful mixture of vaccines against polio, hepati­tis B, anthrax, yellow fever and cholera. They also took tablets, called NAPS, to counteract the effects of chemical and biologi­cal warfare. 
Since 1991, thousands of American and British veterans have complained of symptoms including lethargy, numbness apd sleep disturbances. Veterans' associations have reported a high number of chil­dren born to Gulf War veterans suffering disabilities and physi­cal abnormalities. 
But both the British and U.S. governments have said there is no evidence of a unique, previ­ously unknown illness. 
Did you know... r 

That you could own acondominium or townhome just minutes from Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni and faculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends BeautifuJ waterfront settings ..,. ~R01f.f 


~..;.... ~ 
~~~ 
North Shore Club 
~ ~ $
"=­
~SH0~1.'-'
Models Open Daily . Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M. 
(219) 232-2002
Mon.-Fri. 10 A.M.-6 P.M. 
(800) 404-4275 

UJIJI#l Ltoth~.5 for ~~: . ~ ~"{J u&J !1 ~~·~ 
f, '="v: ~ ~~~_,~, .._;, • 
4 C4~VUS WIVII:' CLVTillp...jf7 VIJIVII:' 
iT's ThERe-:..-IN ThE BAcK OF YouR CLOSeT---AN ArTiCLe OF CLOthiNg YOu'LL nEvEr WEar. THE oNE gRAnDma GaVe YoU. 
• THE oNE You PAck EVeRy YeaR FoR ScHooL But YOu dOn't KNow­WHy 
WANT it! qf it ,all of it • e'll BE Around 
so. SACR"IB...fr.:E¥:A.\:,t;l'lP'rn....mF.@R 'Faa.·s.·.. E
WHO NEE~-'A,~f}HT!;~f ·.· _,v,· ... ··-·.h... • ·fu;tj . 
I ALL DONATIONS TO GO TO THE ST. VINCENT de PAUL SOCIETY OF S.B. 
-----.,.-----­
page 10 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 11, 1996 



utual Funds 
The books you sell now, mean more used books and lO\\rer prices next time around. Everybody gains. 
December 12-21 The Hammes NOTRE DAME .BOOKSTORE 
''on the campus'' 
Open Monday-Saturday 9 a.m. -5 p.m. 
Book Buyback. ItPays to Be Part of It. 
~' RECYCLE 

\'le buy book~~ t.hot can be .ce11sed he.ce ... or on other campuses. VroRCASH . 

------------------~-------------~ 

Wednesday, December II, I996 The Observer • NEWS page II 
Food Lion sues ABC for fraud, trespassing 




Plan to settle racial lawsuit 
By ROBERT GREENE 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Faced with a lawsuit and new evidence of unfair treatment of black farmers, the Agriculture Department said Tuesday it will take steps to settle longstanding discrimination complaints. 
The announcement came as black farmers from the Southeast planned to demon­strate in front of the White House, contending the Clinton administration has done noth­ing to remedy past discrimina­tion despite admitting a legal duty. 
The complaint focuses on allegations of discrimination by the old Farmers Home Administration, the depart­ment's lending agency, now called the Farm Service Agency. Blacks have com­plained over the past two decades that unequal treatment has aided in the decline of black agriculture. 
announced national and statewide forums on program delivery and the creation of special "outreach" offices to work with minorities. 
From 1982 to 1987, the num­ber of farms run by blacks dropped 30 percent, according to Census numbers cited in a 1990 report by the House Committee on Government Operations-less than 1 percent of all farms. 
The number had peaked at about 950,000 in the 1920s. The Commission on Civil Rights first called attention to the situ­ation in 1982. 
On Friday in Washington, U.S. District Judge Thomas Flannery will hear arguments on whether a lawsuit brought last year by six black and Hispanic farmers against the department should be widened to include hundreds of alleged victims of discrimination. 
The Justice Department has argued against turning the law­suit into a class action. It says requests for evidence. 
Black farmers complained they have been given smaller loans than their white counter­parts, making it harder to keep financially afloat. 
Other allegations say loans are granted late in the crop season, aggravating debt prob­lems; black farmers are denied equal help with loan applica­tions, and in some cases the applications are shelved by county officials or false num­bers are entered. 
An Associated Press analysis of lending records from 1980 to 1992 found that black farmers received about 51 cents for every dollar lent to whites. While the number of loans to white farmers dropped by 66 percent over that period, the number of loans to black farm borrowers tumbled by 82 per­cent. 
The department has said at the time the AP study was done in late 1992 that the smaller loans were due largely to small­

By PAUL NOWELL 
Associated Press Writer 
GREENSBORO, N.C. 

Hidden-camera journalism went on trial Tuesday in a closely watched lawsuit brought by Food Lion over an ABC "PrimeTime Live" expose that accused the supermarket chain of selling rat-gnawed cheese and spoiled chicken. 
Seeking $2.5 billion in dam­ages from the network, Food Lion is suing not for libel but for fraud and trespassing, accusing two ABC producers of using illegal tactics in going undercover to get the story in 1992. 
The case could help open a new line of legal attack for companies burned by hidden­camera exposes. The question is whether reporters have the right to pose as employees of the company they are investi­gating. 
Robert Sack, a First Amendment lawyer in New York, said corporations and the news media are watching. 
"Reporters don't always get news by being wholly up front and forthcoming," said Sack, whose clients include The Wall Street Journal and Newsday. "It is likely that important law will be made by this case pre­cisely because some variant of this form of behavior is part and parcel of what reporters do to get the truth." 
ABC's report accused the supermarket chain of unsani­tary practices such as selling cheese that had been gnawed by rats and spoiled meat that had been washed in bleach to cover the odor. The Salisbury­based chain denied the allega­tions and sued. 


VIEWPOINT 
page 12 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editor> Business Manager Ponric.:ia Carson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager..........................Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Act;:cnt Editor.......................... .jocy Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michad Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.. ......................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac.: and Saint Mary's College. h does nm necessarily rdlecr rhe policies of rhe administra­tion of either institution. The news is rc:portC"d as accurately and objC"ctivdy as possible". UnsignC"d C"di­rorials rC"prc:sC"m the opinion of the majority of thC' Editor-in-ChiC"f, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. CommC"ntarics, lenC"rs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors. and not necessarily thosC' ofThe Observer. ViC"Wpoint spacC" is available to all members of thC' NotrC' DamC"/Saim Mary's com~ muniry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Mana~ing Edimr/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu General lnformarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 


• KEVORKIAN KORNER 

Media spotlight sho\Vs individuals in their true light 
I've been watching the O.J. civil trial lately. I should say, more accurately, that I have been watching reenactments of the civil trial recently on the E! net­work. E! is a channel which specializes in show business fluff-gossip, swimsuit "documentaries," and other television 


Josh Ozersky 
flotsam. E! generally functions as a kind of clearing house for excess infotain­ment, so it's not the sort of place one expects to lind innovative trial reporting. But since the judge in the civil trial ruled that it would not be televised, E! stepped into the breach with a brilliant idea. Since the transcripts would be available at the end of every day, why not just hire actors and have them play the tran­scripts like the first-draft melodramas they are? 
I think this is a profound insight into our art and culture, and one worthy of the Caryl Chessman Memorial Dramaturgy Award most recently given to LIHH gunman Colin Ferguson, who provided us with such fireworks with his spirited self-representation in court. The 
0 ..1. trial part one was such a colossal failure at least partially because Judge Ito was at all times aware of the camera, and felt the need to display Solomonic patience with the defense's hijinks. The current judge, a taciturn sort, has little usc for publicity, and his reticence has paid ofT big for the lost art of trial report­ing. And, of course, for docudrama: the E! reenactments represent a quantum leap in the merging of news and enter­

tainment. The first trial had the feel, if 
not the look, of a television show; the E! 
reenactments remedy even that problem. 
The civil trial is being handled on all fronts, in fact, in a more sophisticated way than had been the criminal case. O.J.'s guilt having had time to settle into an institution, an immovable object in the common psyche, television has learned to accommodate it. The first trial was treated as a news event, more or less; the civil trial has been promoted to a genre of its own, like professional sports or bug lilms. Charles Grodin and Gcraldo arc the Lewis and Clark of this field. They kept homilizing about O.J. without interruption between the trials, keeping the details in the air, and mak­ing permanent guests of such prominent juicologists as Chris Darden, Alan Dershowitz, and The New Yorker's Jeffrey Toobin. 
The result has been that by the time of the civil trial, the apparatus was in place for a whole O.J. industry, whose unstat­ed premise -that O.J. was wrongfully freed by a bigoted jury, in spite of a mountain of irrefutable physical and cir­cumstantial evidence -now supplies the moral certitude of a nation. The New York Times Magazine recently ran a story on radio psychologist Dr. Laura Schlesinger, which restated my point of a few weeks earlier in these pages. Society craves moral absolutes; the Times and I understand Dr. Laura's high ratings in this light, but I think it is even more true ol'the O.J. issue. 
During the criminal trial, I think it was even more true, since a vast majority of black people believed unshakably in O.J.'s innocence. Now, if the white news media are to be trusted, many blacks are jumping off that bandwagon. The defense's portrayal of Nicole Brown Simpson as "a coke whore" didn't go down well with black women, particular­ly mothers; and the Juice's high living, multiple perjuries, and general carefree demeanor seem to have undercut his credibility as well. But for the great white audience, all this was preaching to the converted. We believed the DNA audience to begin with; we never put faith in an intricately constructed, fiendishly clever cabal of detectives who 
'The O.J. trial part one 
was such a colossal fail­ure at least partially because Judge Ito was at all times aware of the camera, and he felt th need to display Solomonic patience with the defense's hijinks.' 
eonspircd to mix the victims blood with O.J.'s and plant it in his car, to put Bronco fibers at the crime scene, etc. etc. So for the white audience, so ambivalent these days about matters of God and Country, love and money, to have a subject of such unambiguous moral certainty is almost a godsend. 
All of the O.J. shows have a black talk­ing head to speak in O.J.'s defense, and while this thankless job is generally per­formed through declamation (a female attorney on a recent show claimed that 
O.J. was "charming and sincere" and that she "believed wholeheartedly in his innocence") one remark that comes out has the ring of truth. That is the claim that O.J. is "a scapegoat.'' In this, I would fully agree. O.J. carries the sins of the many on his broad shoulders, and his sculpted and impassive face is infinitely preferable for most of us to a mirror. Whether this makes him innocent, I wouldn't say. 
The Holtz Legacy 
Coach Holtz's career at Notre Dame ended prematurely with the USC loss, an evil end to so great a man as he was. I kidded Coach Holtz a lot during the last three and a half years, only because he seemed to be treated around here with an undue reverence, but once he announced his retirement I felt some­thing go out of me. 
Bob Davie seems to be a stand-up guy -he certainly looks like a football coach. But I don't see how he can bring with him the things we lose when we lose Coach Holtz. That wry, sardonic wit, always underlaid with self-depreeation; that soft-spoken pessimism with which Holtz, like the last Czar, always seemed to see through the next opponent to defeat and despair, and the magnificent ease with which that prediction was so often averted; his tense, compulsive habits on the field, where he would piek at the grass like a bull preparing to charge; his big-game grand strategies; his imperfect, waspish, flawed, brilliant personality. Coach Davie is too together a person for me to ever really love. lie's too straight, he looks too right running at the head of a column of giants out of the tunnel. (I always liked the sight of that shrunken genius standing beside those Apollos like Dr. Silvana beside Captain Marvel.) 
Coach Davie may restore Notre Dame's football fortunes, but I think a flawed yet upright personality like Coach Holtz's better serves the spiritual doctrines of the university, themselves so paradoxical and pure. 
Josh Ozersky is a doctoral candidate in the history department. lie can be reached at Ozersky. l@nd.edu. 

• DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 





VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, December 11, 1996 page 13 
• lETIER To THE EDITOR 

Discrimination exists in any and all forms 
Dear Editor: 
This may be overdue, but better late than never. 
1am writing to follow up on James Friday III's letter to the editor (The Observer, Oct. 16). First, let me provide some background information about myself. I am a typical Notre Dame student -white, Irish, het­erosexual, football-loving, Catholic ... heck, even my name is Mary! However, one thing distinguishes me from the rest of the student body -1 am profoundly deaf. I am an oral deaf person, meaning that I use speech and lip-reading skills as a means of communi­cation, and I have limited knowledge of sign lan­guage. One may ask why I am writing; read on. 
I don't think many people realize that there is dis­crimination associated with deafness just as there is with skin color. Discrimination against skin color, socio-economic background, or religious belief is usu­ally more obvious than it is against deafness. However, believe it or not, I have encountered preju­dice on this campus as a result of my deafness, and (I hate to say this) I have faced more discrimination here than anywhere else. 
I want to use this opportunity to tell everyone a lit­tle about deafness, because the only way to decrease ignorance and discrimination is through education. Long ago, deaf meant being dumb. Yes, it is true that the unemployment rate for deaf people is staggeringly higher than the national average. However, this sta­tistic is due to the fact that a hearing person's educa­tion is generally more difficult for a deaf person because of the difficulty of communication. Deaf peo­ple are struggling daily just to communicate, and as a result, being deaf sometimes means being the butt of jokes. 
Being deaf means dealing with people who panic and walk away because they don't know sign lan­guage, and they assume all deaf people sign. Being deaf means dealing with faculty who couldn't under­stand why I ask so many questions even though I attend (and stay awake in) class daily. Being deaf means not being able to communicate by voice on the telephone. Being deaf means not being able to hear the question (or joke) a student asks (or says) behind me. Being deaf means getting stares when I talk. Being deaf means putting up with people who forget to face me when they talk, even after I ask them to do so several times. Being deaf means not being able to hear someone call my name from across the quad. People may judge me as quiet, but they don't realize how difficult it is to follow a group conversation, unless each person speaks without interruption and waits for me to look at them before starting their comments. 

For those who don't realize, I face discrimination not only from hearing people, but also from some of 
· my deaf peers in Deaf Culture. They see their deaf­ness as an honored trait, not as a disability as seen in hearing people's eyes. Gaulladet University, located in Washington, is known as a mecca for Deaf Culture. Yes, they speak a different language, and they pride themselves on it. They look down upon the likes of me, just because I speak and attend a university full of hearing people. They look at it as if I am denying my deafness -I'm not; in fact, I appreciate my deaf­ness because it has made me a more compassionate person. My deafness has made me who I am today. Also, it forces me to be alert and appreciative of my surroundings. 
I see my deafness as a challenge, not an obstacle, since it is a part of me wherever I go. Those in Deaf Culture see me as a deaf oral person trying to pass for hearing in a hearing world, while hearing people see me as a deaf person. A comparison would be a black person who has many white friends and is shunned by black people fro trying to pass for white, while white people will always view him or her as black. 
I cannot say that I know exactly an African American's viewpoint on this campus because I am not African American, but at least I can relate. There is a very common remark on campus; "If you are complaining so much about the lack of diversity on this campus, then go somewhere where you'll be happy." I tell you why we chose to come here and stayed put -it was the exact same thing that drew you to Notre Dame -the strong unity and spirit of the students, academic reputation, beautiful cam­pus, etc. 
However, one big reason I chose to come here: all the great people I met when my parents and I visited during my senior year of high school. I had been planning on attending Michigan, since it is my home. But the willingness to help and the friendliness of the people I hade met that day left me no choice but to attend Notre Dame. 
One of the people I met was my freshman adviser, and she is still one of the warmest and best people on this campus -she is also African American. I was excited about coming here because I had thought the people would be similar to the ones at home in Ann Arbor. I also had thought that prejudice would decrease with age and maturity. I don't want to say that I was misled, but I did carry the false impression that ignorance was not prevalant on this campus. I had expected a smooth ride at Notre Dame. I had a lot to learn. 
Yes, my road up to this point has been long and winding, but I wouldn't trade it for anything else in the world. Yes, I've thought about transferring, but only until I went to visit a school that my childhood friend (who is also deaO attends. It wasn't long until I decided against transferring, because it struck me that Notre Dame offers some things that cannot be found anywhere else in the world. 
I hope all understand my letter; if not feel free to e­mail or talk to me. I thank the Lord for my blessings everyday, and I ask him to help me, repeating after Friday, "to do my part to make this University and this world a better place because it is mine, and it is ours." 
MARY RYAN HEPBURN Junior Pasquerilla West 
• fRIVOLATA 

Holiday gift-giving guide for that special someone 
Christmas is just around the corner, and those of us who don't want to be standing in never-ending lines at the last minute are trying to prepare for the sea­son ahead of time. Sometimes this can be hard, though -we all have at least one person in our lives who is nearly 

Kirsten Dunne 
impossible to buy for. That's why I thought I'd help you out today with some gift ideas for those difficult folks. I don't guarantee satisfaction -some people are never satisfied -but I do guarantee that, if you choose your gifts from the following list, the recipients will, at the very least, have to compli­ment you on your ingenuity. 
The Mole Repeller. This gadget couldn't be easier to use -it's simply a pole which you stick in the ground near your garden. The pole emits electrical impulses which, while they effectively keep moles away from your valuable plants, do nothing to harm the little creatures. What could be better than this'? Not only is it sure to elicit a smile from the recipient -it's also so darn practical that it's a winner for anyone you might have on your list. 
The Karate Belt Showcase. This beau­ty allows you to display as many as six belts, and it even comes personalized with a nameplate at the top. With this handy item, you'll never have to shove your martial arts belts into a drawer again. Give someone this display and let him show off the awards he has worked so hard to earn. Perhaps the biggest selling point for this item is that there's absolutely no assembly required! 

The Private Eye. This is an essential for those friends -and possibly family members -who thrive on scoping out people at bars, clubs, parties, and so on. When you hold this object to your eye in the proper position, it allows you to see to one side or the other. The drawback to this gadget is that it is still blatantly obvious that you're focusing on some­thing (or someone.) However, the per­son you're REALLY checking out will never suspect that he's the object of your spying. In fact, the guy or gal next to you may even approach you when they notice your toy and ask you what's so interesting. At that point, the ice is broken and you can start talking to the previously-unapproachable person. Of course, it will be another matter for you to avoid the question of what you were doing with your little toy, and I have to leave you on your own to figure that one out! 
A Praying Mantis Cluster. Another garden-protector, albeit of a different variety. Praying mantises can't do much about moles, but if insects are the bane of your garden, these little fellows can help. You see, these guys live by eating insects such as fleas, lice and aphids. And this package contains a sufficient number of praying mantises to protect even the largest gardens -each cluster contains hundreds and hundreds of eggs. The territorial mantises will stay on your property and will lay their eggs there, so that for years to come, you'll always have their company and protec­tion. Shock and amaze someone with this special and unique gift. It will be the surprise of the recipient's life. 
The Perennial Calendar. I know quite a few cheapskates -do you? If so, this is the gift for those tight-wads in your life. The calendar has four changeable scenes to correspond to the seasons, and while most of us are accustomed to a different scene for each month, the ben­efit to this baby is that you NEVER, ever need to replace it! That's right, kids, ­the person for whom you get this calen­dar will be able to use it up until the day he or she drops dead. Simply adjust the solid-wood pieces for the particular month and year and insert the little holi­day symbols (e.g., a bunny, a birthday cake) wherever appropriate. This is also a good idea if you, the donor, hap­pen to be frugal yourself. Give this cal­endar this year; next year, don't give a squat. If you take heat, simply remind everyone that you've already given a gift that lasts a lifetime. 
Eagle-Eyes Glasses. These amazing glasses duplicate the light-handling characteristics of an eagle's eye, result­ing in much clearer and sharper vision. What's better, while they do block UV rays and can be used as sunglasses, they process light rays rather than reducing them. Translation: you can wear these puppies day OR night. Now, that's what I call a sweet gift. (By the way, my com­puter won't make that little "R" in a cir­cle, but please note that "Eagle-Eyes" is, indeed, a registered trademark. Do not confuse these glasses with the sundry other glasses which duplicate eagle vision.) 
L'il Makin' Faces Dolls. Is there a child you have to buy for, but whom you really resent? The kid of one of your dearest friends, perhaps, -but never­theless a real brat? Get her one of these dolls and give her nightmares for life. These dolls make horrible and contorted faces, and look eerily like Chucky of the Child's Play movies. (You might even want to spend the extra dough to get the movies for the kid, just so she gets the full effect.) The best part, though, is that they're advertised as being cute and cuddly, so your friend won't be able to say anything to you about the horrid, freakish doll you got her child. She'll accuse you of bad taste, perhaps, but who cares! It's not as if she ever got YOU a gift YOU really liked ... 
The Multi-Currency Wallet. This handy pocketbook has a different slot for each denomination of money-$1 's, $5 's, $1 O's, $20's, and "larger bills." Pretty unique, huh? Possible drawback: your recipient might be too destitute to have $20's and even $10's -much less "larger bills" -to stick into the various slots. So my advice is this: if you give this gift, give it with the companion gift of cash. Splurge a little -it's Christmas! And giving is better than receiving, right? (By the way, if you were thinking of getting me a gift, this -with the cash, naturally -would be absolutely perfect!) 
And who knows? If you look around, you might find even better gifts than these! At any rate, good luck in your shopping, and have a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Later! 
Kirsten Dunne, ND '92 and ND Law '95, works for Goldberg, Weisman & Cairo Ltd. in Chicago. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 


;ACCENT
page 14 Wednesday, December 11 1996 
• ACCENT ASKS ••• 
How do you deal 




with stress? 

"Exercise." 
Stephanie Frigon Freshman, Badin 

"Call my mom." 
David Bradshaw Junior, St. Edwards 

"Go running." 
Kristin D'Agostino Sophomore, Lewis 

"Drink, (either that or play Nintendo.)" 
Keith Murphy Junior, Off Campus 

"I do not have any stress." 
Ann Hatfield Junior, Pangborn 

"I like to bake ... cookies." Pat Bellmore Junior, Off Campus 
Observer/Michelle Sweet 


By JOSEPH WEILER 
Assistant Accent Editor 
A
n American businessman was on vacation in the Caribbean. Walking along the beach, he spied a fisher­man asleep under a palm tree, covered with his net. Walking up to the fisherman, the businessman asked him what he was doing. 
"Sleeping." 
"Yes, but you should be out fishing," admonished 
the businessman. 
"Why?" 
"So you can get more fish and more money and a bigger net." 
"Why?" 
"So you can get a bigger boat, and maybe start your own company." "Why?" "So you can become rich." "And why do I want to be rich?" "So you can do whatever you like. You could take 
a vacation in the Caribbean and sleep all day under a palm tree if you wanted." "Yeah. I could," responded the fisherman, who promptly went back to sleep. 
Stress -everyone has it, everyone has to deal with it. Whether it's writing a ten page paper until four in the morning which is due the next day, or worrying about that Physics final for which you have three hours to cram, you have probably felt stress at some point in your life. Not only is it an unpleasant sensation, it is also hazardous to your heath. It leads to heart attacks and hypertension, headaches and back pain, and may even put you at high risk for cancer. 
That is, while stress is good for you in normal amounts, as it is the deciding fac­tor which forces us to meet that deadline or finish that project, high levels can ad­versely affect your physical and mental well being. Yet, we are living in a culture where one's worth is measured by mone­tary gains, buying power, and status on the social ladder. 
Businessmen become imprisoned in their quest for wealth, authority, and fame, spend­ing seventy or eighty hours a week at their job. No longer do they worry about happiness or family. Notre Dame and Saint Marys stu­dents, as a faction of society at large, are also pulled into this evil form of competition. They obsess about grades, yet they forget the true point of school. It is common to cram for a test until the final hours of the morning, take the test and then immediately forget all of the material. While one will get a decent grade, he will not have actually learned anything, nor will he have -enriched himself in any way. He will simply have attained a score that he can compare to his peers'. 
Which brings us to the important questions of "Why do I have so much stress and how do I get rid of it?" The first question is not that tough to answer. Stress comes from two different sources: Pressure and pro­crastination. 
There is so much pressure placed on the shoulders of men and women these days that the weight is almost unbearable: We get pressure from our boss­es who not only want us to do everything, but to do it perfectly. We get pressure from our co-workers who need favors, or need help, or need this and that. We get pressure from our competition, who dare us do as well as them, and force us to one­up them in order to merely survive. And most importantly we get pressure from ourselves. We feel the constant need to be busy, to go that extra step so we can get a better grade or a promotion or a raise or even to win over the affections of a certain someone. In fact, the greatest 
ll amount of pressure in our lives comes from the con­stant desire to top ourselves. 
The second source, procrastination, is almost self­explanatory. A wise man here on campus once said, "Procrastination is like drinking. Once the pain from it hits, you swear that you'll never do it again, but when the temptation next arises, all promises go out the window." 
'.\·'·
I I 
It's easy enough to say that people ha because they wait too long to finish their t not just a matter of willl'ully putting thing. about a paper due three weeks from now 

~---~-~~-------~~------=--w----~---------------­
-----~--­

ACCENT
Wednesday, December II I996 page IS 



realk 1tzress 
tests in the next week, club . duties to take care of, re-
I .

.,. I If sponsibilities in the dorm to fin­
• , · ; ish and problems with their signif­
1

., 1 
' 'I icant other that need to be ,\ '/ lved. Procrastination is an unfortunate fact of life. 
But on to the more important question, "How do I get rid of so much stress?" One senior joked that the best way to deal with finals is to kick back and have a few brews. He may be on to something. The best cure for stress is actu­ally to relax. Duh, every­one knows that. But why, then don't -' most of us do it? Deal with the things that you can deal with now and worry about the rest later. Enjoy life, even those killer orgo tests and twenty page pa­
~;:==~~p e r s

II Remember, you're given every opportunity to do exactly what you want to do. No regrets -no 
worries! 

Stress is only what we make it out to be. There is no set formula stating that so much work load constitutes an x amount of 
stress. 

If, however exam time rolls around and the pressure just keeps pouring itself on, here are a few suggestions that might help relieve your over­burdened life for just a little 
while: There is nothing more relax­ing than watching other peo­
ple go through more stress than yourself. This being the case, you might want to head up to the lab theater in Washington Hall tonight. There you will see many young men and women performing for their final projects under not only the scrutiny of their professors, but 
their peers and families as well. After that, take a walk up to 
the third floor of LaFortune around one o'clock in the morning. There you will find those young men and women who epitomize the most stressful conditions possible. Running around late into the night making last minute adjustments for late-breaking 
stories and eagerly anticipating the news coming from the outside world. 
After a night like this it's a guarantee that you'll go home and thank the Good Lord in Heaven above for your good 
fortune in having only three finals the next day. 
But, perhaps this sadistic method of self-gratifi­cation isn't quite your thing. In that case order a pizza at midnight and don't start studying again until at least 1:30 AM. Or head down to the nearest pool table and vent some aggression on those little marble balls. Or perhaps you'd rather do something more 
drastic -vent some aggression on the world. Now don't go running around the library naked, or screaming that the stress is "JUST TOO MUCH!!!" in a freshman final, but have a good time. 
\ , Enjoy your experiences here. ' •• , The sleepy old fisherman had the right
1 ' idea. So what if he was a little bit lazy. So what if he wasn't rich or famous or prosperous or even very lucky. He was too much stress 
taking advantage of those little things that he did have and not 
. But it's usually 
worrying so much about the things that he didn't. He was 
. No one thinks 
happy, and that's all that really matters. 

tlen they have four 
• ACCENT SPEAKS 
WHO'S 
STRESSED? 
By MARY BETH ELLIS 
Accent Copy Editor 
T
his is a time of great stress, when our academic careers come into harsh focus, when scholarships hang in the balance, when an entire semester's work is judged within a single ninety-minute period, and I'd just like to take this opportunity to say to one and all .... FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, STOP WHINING! 
There are people worse off than us, you know. Take, for example, that woman featured in an extremely touching local used car dealership com­mercial who, in a moment of great dramatic tension, passes out on the hood of a 1985 Ford Escort due to-and I do hope I'm using the correct medical jargon here-"sticker shock." 
I 'm just saying, we aren't the only ones ready to drop from exhaustion and worry. Here follows a comprehensive list of People Who are More Stressed Than You: 
1) O.J. Simpson. Pity the Juice, who in the midst of continuing his exhaus­tive search for the REAL killers by selling his signature on any surface a Marks-A-Lot will write on, now faces an increasingly incriminating heap of evidence in his civil trial. Even without Robert Shapiro on hand to deliver the much-needed legal strategy of continually being held in contempt of court, Simpsons' alibis seem to be holding up extremely well, even after the prosecution introduced a close-up photograph of him wielding the murder weapon at the murder scene during the exact time of the murders. (His explanation: "I was just holding it for the REAL killers, who are most assuredly out there somewhere.") 
2) Jenny McCarthy. We all need to get down on our knees this very instant and pray for Jenny, who is so adversely affected by the unbearable stress that comes from being fawned over as the most wondrous woman to be born into the human race since the Mother of God that she is unable to form complete sentences. I know those two-syllable words are hard to pro­nounce, Jenny, but Hooked on Phonics worked for me. 
3) Father Edward Sorin. I realize that Father Sorin is technically dead, but I have sincere concern for his mental well-being in the hereafter. I started feeling this way after I overheard the following conversation in LaFortune's flower shop between the salesclerk and some Domer wearing his baseball cap backwards: 
STUDENT: (As though announcing that he has just effectively ended world poverty) I need flowers. 
CLERK: What kind? 
STUDENT: Dance flowers. 
CLERK: No, I mean do you need roses, carnations, orchids .... ? 
STUDENT: (He has never entertained the possibility that flowers do not spring out of the Earth completely dance-ready, pre-cut and bound in tissue paper with a pink ribbon.) I don't know. My date said she's wearing a black dress. Do you have anything that goes with black? 
**An agonized discussion ensues, at the culmination of which the student 
purchases-prepare yourself for yet another demonstration of that super­
duper Dorner creativity-a single red rose.** 
STUDENT: (Leaving, noticing me standing behind him in line.) Hey, I need 
a girl's opinion. If I took you to an SYR and gave you this rose, would you 
let me get to first? 
ME: Kid, I wouldn't even let you out of the dugout. This, my friends, is what Sorin's university has come to. Am I the only one picturing him in heaven banging his head against a wall? 
4) My mother. Besides facing the daily, unenviable task of assuming fifty percent of the responsibility for putting me on this planet, in the past sever­al days she has had to face the following: 
-A phone call from my sister announcing that she is engaged to a person 
named -this is true -"Britton." Besides having a wedding to plan, she 
must now adjust to the idea of acquiring a son-in-law named after a coun­
try. 
-A phone call from me posing the hypothetical question of how to get a 
hypothetical grape juice stain out of a hypothetical white silk dress. 
-Moving for the first time in twenty-five years. This entailed not killing my 
father, who randomly flung everything he owns into boxes, then added an 
incoherent listing of their contents. So now my mother is completely sur­
rounded by cardboard labeled thusly: "Deflated Football, some Important 
Pink Papers, Half-Empty Box of Cough Drops. Also, 1 Sweatsuit (Pants 
Only.)" 
Do not tell me that this woman does not deserve, at the very least, a per­
sonal visit from the Pope congratulating her on maintaining the will to live. 
I'd continue, but the stress of typing is simply too much. I think what I need to recover are some high quality chocolate chip cookies, preferably hand-fed to me by a scantily clad Chippendale's dancer. 
Mary Beth Ellis, a Saint Mary's sophomore, wrote this column rather than beginning to study for her theology final, which, besides being the only exam in this course this entire semester, is partially objective, fully compre­hensive, and possibly fatal. Not that she's, you know, stressed out about it or anything . 
.. 
• 

-----------------~----------~-----------==--~.-~-~­
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, December 11, 1996 
season (1995) was a great suc­Wagner in 1994 training camp is Notre Dame's all time leader of older, married guys with cess, but adversity struck and has been the Packer in receiving yards (2512), and families. People are at their
ND-GB 

again when he tore the same punter ever since. Hentrich is touchdown receptions (22). growing stage between 18 and 
continued from page 28 
Dame and Green Bay tradition is further solidified in 1996 when you open the Packer program before a game at Lambeau Field. The fact that five of the 53 man roster of the Packers are Notre Dame foot­ball alumni is truly amazing! (In fact, most NFL teams have two, more rarely three players from the same college playing for them.) 
Punter Craig Hentrich, Offensive lineman Lindsay Knapp, Wide receiver Derrick Mayes, Offensive lineman Gene McGuire and Guard Aaron Taylor are current Packers that wore the Blue and Gold under Lou Holtz. 

.. 
Taylor, the former first round draft pick of the Pack in 1994, perhaps epitomizes the "never say die" attitude all ND players have. He tore the patellar tendon in his right knee during mini-camp in June of 1994. His real rookie 
tendon in his left knee during a playoff game last December against Atlanta. Still the for­mer Lombardi Trophy winner was there to start the season opener, a 34-3 win by the Pack over Tampa Bay. 
When asked if he saw any similarities in playing for both teams, Taylor emphasized a tradition of winning that per­meates each town (Green Bay and South Bend). "It matters whether you win or lose when you play for Notre Dame just like it does when you play here for the Packers" he said. "It's evident from the quality of the people that both organizations recruit." 
Hentrich, the "senior" mem­ber of the ND contingent on the Packer roster was acquired by Green Bay as a free agent after being drafted in the 8th round by the New York Jets in 1993. After spending that year on the Packers practice squad, Craig beat out incumbent Bryan especially valuable to the team because he can kick off, hold on field goal attempts and do what he did as a four year let­terman: both punt and kick field goals. Although Chris Jacke is the Green Bay place­kicker, Craig was called on to revive his dual role last season for two and one half games. 
Craig also saw a parallel in the tradition of both organiza­tions. "The comraderie of Notre Dame is very similar to playing here because people of the (Packer) past. Ray Nitschke, Fuzz Thurston, all those guys are still around here. I get to play in a lot of charity golf tournaments with them. Just to hear their sto­ries is very similar to Notre Dame." He also sees a lot of similarities in the fans of his former and current team. "Both are very knowledgeable and know when to cheer. They also know of certain situ­ations in the game that other fans might not understand." 
Wide receiver Derrick Mayes Mayes inexplicably slipped to the second round in the 1996 draft and was snapped up by the Packers who felt that his pass catching ability would fit quite nicely in their pro-style 'West Coast' offense, which fa­vors a player of Derrick's abili­ty but takes time to learn. Mayes was expected to back up Packer starters Robert Brooks and Antonio Freeman, but injuries to the wide receiv­er corps have pressed Mayes into more game action than anticipated. He excited the Packer faithful in a game ear­lier this month against Kansas City when he caught the ball in one arm while being interfered with (the opposing player's helmet in the other arm) for his first NFL touchdown. 
When asked about any simi­larities between former coach Lou Holtz and current coach Mike Holmgren, Mayes' an­swer showed insight far be­yond his age (almost 23). "Holmgren is dealing with a lot 22. Coach Holtz understands that. There's a more disci­plined role that he takes for his players and rightfully so. Those (ND years) are the most influential years of your life. Once you get here (the pros) you've pretty much gotten set in your ways. You are not dealing with personalities that you have to mold and culti­vate. You have guys who know what they want to get out of life and how they want to get there." 
Taylor also noted the dissimilarities between the coaches, but more so in their styles of coaching and the philosophies behind the offens­es they run. "They are almost polar opposites. Holtz is three yards and a cloud of dust. Holmgren is pass, pass, pass. I went to ND where we threw the ball 10 times a game, then I come here and we may run the ball 10-15 times a game. I had to learn how to pass block when I got here. I'm still learning." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

Classifieds 

NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ HOUSE FOR RENT, TWO  Moving Sale  HEYBIGC::  
NOTICES  Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife  BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS. NEWLY REMODLED-4/5 BED­ 86 white OLDS DELTA 88 aut., 2d., 136000mi.  WHICH THREE LETTER WORD WILL MAKE YOUR 21ST???­ 'Need a ride home to New York' 'lor X-Mas (Albany area)'  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  ROOM, FULL BASEMENT. AVAIL­ $700  D.C., WILKES-BERRY, OR GOOD  Will help with driving & expenses.  
'''30 SHOPPING DAYS LEFTI  bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  ABLE SUMMER/FALL 97'.  TV, Toshiba, ty., 14in.  'OLE SOUTH BEND???  Can leave Dec. 20-22.  
NOW IS THE TIME TO GUARAN­ N55849  INCLUDES APPLIANCES, MONI­ $125  -UNO WHO  Call Steve@ 232-7324  
TEE THE LOWEST RATES AND  TORED SECURITY SYSTEM.  Sony Stereo, exc. cond.  
BEST HOTELS FOR SPRING  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ 100W.amp, CD, tape  BigC- Anticipate the Nipple ape!  
BREAK. LEISURE TOURS HAS  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  separate/whole $200 (orig. $430)  What do you wish for most??  GWAR Fest rocks the universe  
PACKAGES TO SOUTH PADRE,  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  FOR RENT: GRANGER 3-4 BED­ Call 634-3112.  are you going to wilkes-berry or  tonight at Midnight in the Otter  
CANCUN. JAMAICA AND FLORI·  month. Room and Board!  ROOM HOUSE! FULL BSMT, 2·  shall i bring wilkes-berry to you?  Room. The World Maggot must be  
DA. 800-838-8203  Transportation! Male or Female. No experience necessary. Call  CAR GARAGE $825.51844 CHERYL DR. 272-6877  PERSONAL  or maybe you like law students now ... ???  fed!  
(206)971-3510 extA55848  I wanna give a final shout-out to all  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  ''SET YOURSELF FREE"  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS I  maybe your "cowboys wanted-sign  my boys at the Observer, and all  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  Michiana's largest night club and  TURTLE CREEK APARTMENT  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  will be answered .....  my boys in Sorin, the home of cool.  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  newest restaurant is now seeking  AVAILABLE FOR RENT  COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS!  It's been fun.  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  competant, hard working individuals  SECOND SEMESTER.  The highest quality full-color  watch for Andre House  -The Golem  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  to fill several positions within our  2 BDRM-GREAT FOR 2-4 PEO­ copies are now available at  marriage # 17 coming soon .....  
Sun (800)763-5606.  growing company. Positions now  PLE. NO PARIETALS-WALK TO  THE COPY SHOP  
available are: Hostess, Banquet  CLASS-GREAT NEIGHBORS,  LaFortune Student Center  BigC- Doughty- 
STOMPERBOB  and restaurant servers, bus per­ FIRST COME FIRST SERVE-CALL  Phone #631-COPY  Happy Happy 21st! We can cele­ Please come back next season~  
at  sons, Beer Tub and shot girls. All  CHRISTINA 272-9847  brate in the warmth and sun...  You are head and shoulders above  
Senior Bar  positions are ideal for students. If  "SET YOURSELF FREE"  00000000000000000000000000000  maybe you can even bring jesse for  the rest of the line.  
TONIGHT  interested, contact Heartland and  Looking for a unique gift idea?  me!!! -and i'll get someone off  -Colello  
The Old Chicago Steakhouse at  2BDRM APT. TURTLE CREEK  Custom Color Copy Picture  your list...  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  222 S. Michigan St. South Bend.  AVAILABLE (2nd SEM.) SPA­ Calendars are now available at  Keep the Spirit of Richard Kiel alive!  
Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All  CIOUS AND CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune  Happy 21st, Big C!  Mr. Larsen Forever!  
Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  ARE YOU LEAVING 2ND SEMES­ CALL KIM WHORETON-272-9847.  Student Center. Just bring in your  love, dave hasselhoff  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  TER AND DON'T KNOW WHAT  FREE BEDROOM TOURS AVAIL­ favorite pictures and create a mem­ Happy 21st, Ellie! We love you!  
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­ TO DO WITH YOUR FURNITURE?  ABLE AFTER MIDNIGHT UPON  orable calendar!!! Choose from  Marketing Club Christmas Party  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  WE ARE MOVING OFF CAMPUS  REQUEST.  three formats:  Thursday @ Bpm at BW-3  Top Ten Golem Obsessions we will  
AND MIGHT NEED IT! CALL 4­ (1) 12 Picture Monthly Flip  Come end the semester and hang  miss next semester:  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  4843  (2) 1 Picture Monthly Tear-Off  out before finals!  10. The big islander  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From South Bend $419! Prices Increase  SEMESTER BREAK WORK  FOR SALE  (3) 1 Picture Full Year View. 00000000000000000000000000000  Hey Cavanaugh -Have fun withrfi­ 9. Complaing about the@'!$ bells  
Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  $1 0.25 to start  nals and come and visit me in the  8. Cheesy garlic bread and its  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  1-5 week work program  BED, COUCH, & ANS MACH  RIDE NEEDED TO SOUTHERN  cubby whenever you want to chew  destructive effects  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  FT/PT Flexible Schedule  ASKING $125, $75, &$20  NY, N NJ OR AREA FOR CHRIST­ the fat. However, the mascot  7. The evils of Eldorado casse­ 
1·800-678-6386  May continue in summer  2719387  MAS -I HAVE A FINAL UNTIL  maybe a teensy weensy bit  role  
Scholarships awarded  NOON ON FRIDAY 12/20, AND MY  stressed next week. Have a Merry  6. E.Mo...  
Spring Break Panama City!  SOUTH BEND (219)282-2357  1988 Subaru, air, auto, cassette,  WISDOM TEETH HAVE TO COME  Christmas and, to be P.C. (Kerry  5. Highway 14  
..._  Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nights  FORT WAYNE (219}471-6113 NORTH INDY (317)767-5416  4WD, excellent condition, $3200 OBO, call (219) 232 1107  OUT ON SATURDAY-PLEASE HELP! THANK YOU  does not want to discriminate) to those non-Christians -Happy  4. Goblin shakes 3. The C-Keeper  
$1291 Daytona-Best Location $1391  SOUTH INDY (317)767-5416  Call Brian 287-4876  Winter Break. Enjoy the three  2. Zeb and his huuuuuuge crani- 
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­ MERRILLVILLE (219)769-2352  Baby crib and high chair, almost  weeks of nothing but presents and  um  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  MUNCIE (317)289-7345  new, call (219) 2321107  sleep -bliss :)  1. GWAR!  
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY VIVIANI!!  Take Ca Cavanaugh Kerry  
WORDS ... TO GO Term Papers, Dissertations, Resumes, Free Pick­ FOR RENT  For christmas: PC COMPUTER.  (ITS ABOUT TIME!! I)  LUCASII  Happy 21st Birthday Shannon!  
Up and Delivery Available.  Full ethernet access, windows 95,  1!!!!!!!1!!!!1!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1!!!!!!1111!!!!!1!!!1  
Competitive Rates, 299-7224  WALK TO CAMPUS  microsoft word, super fast/quiet  Exams stressing you out?  Ummmmmm ....  Love the PW gals  
ILOST & FOUND I  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES 232-2595  printer. All for $490. Call and check it out-no obligation. man curreri@ 4-3210  Holiday anxiety? COUNSELINE can help! Call Mon-Thurs. 4pm-12am  beer nuts Pregnant and considering adop­ Sexy Salata: Save the soap for later: next semester?! Have a merry Kiss­ 
Furnished room available for '97.  to hear professionally taped  tion? Loving couple wish to adopt a  mas. Luv, Mystery Woman  
LOST: SILVER RING WITH RED  $300/mo. 5-min drive. VERY  materials at 1-7793  white newborn. Home Study com­ 
STONE. REWARD IF FOUND!!!  NICE!  Bed -Queensize ortopedic premi­ plete and approved by Catholic  "Visit the Rome Study's Web page  
PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331.  232-7175.  um mattress set. Never used, stil in  See pg 3 of your ND/SMC phone­ Charities. Call Lisa and Jim 1-800­ at http://www.nd.edu/-ndromer  
package.Cost-550  book for a list of tapes.  442-3213  
Found: 1 chain and charm  I am in desperate need of a  Sacrafice $175 219-674-2352  Sponsored by the UCC and Psych  Alexander A.: Hey, Handsome!  
in Nieuwland Comp lab.  sublener for spring semester! It's for  Club.  THE PERFECT NO CHRISTMAS  Wanted to wish you a happy holi­ 
Identify and claim with Calvin  a big apartment near campus. Call  GIFT? "A WELL BALANCED  day season.Congratulations on  
@4-1772  Peter, 234-4779.  1986 Mazda 323 5 speed. Runs  FAT RADER AND THE BAD GUYS  MEAL," ALL THE BEST OF FOUR  graduation! From Secret Santa­ 
great, some rust. $1500/obo. 234­ Wednesday, Dec. II@ Bridget's  FOOD GROUPS OF THE APOCA­ type.  
•  LOST:  CAMPUS VIEW APARTMENTS Two Bedroom Apartments available  3082.  LYPSE. ON SALE AT HAMMES AND LAFORTUNE INFO DESK  So wait we're an international publi­ 
1 Tennis Bracelet  for immediate rental  GREAT CHRISTMAS GIFT!  A mis amigas Rosa, Marisa, Stacy,  cation. People in Rome ACTUAL­ 
Shaped in X's and O's  1 & 2 Bedroom Apartments  Name a star for someone special.  y Liberty: Ustedes saben que yo no  FIN 360/361 HOTLINE  LY care what the hell goes on in  
Lost between the library and Lyon's  Available for Next School Year  $33 Call (800)701-7201 Ext. 14  tango hermanas. Pero en esta  We are here to help with questions  BEAUTIFUL downtown South  
If found PLEASE,PLEASE,PLEASE  Call 272-1441 ~~  semestre, recibi cuatro hermanas.  and problems  Bend...the boooming metropolis  
call JAckie @ X2900  Espero que puedo ser una her­ Call xt-8432 Day or Night  that it is.  
FOR SALE:  mana mayor muy buena. Quiero  
WANTED  IN DESPERATE NEED OF 2-4 PEOPLE TO LIVE IN OUR TUR­ POOL TABLE· $300 OBO. DP STAIRSTEPPER-$90.  vivir mi vida siendo yo un ejemplo para su seguir. Quiero que sigan  PREGNANT? Consider the loving  Mike Egger is now considered the coolest guy. Sorry Tim Corbett.  
TLE CREEK APT. THIS SPRING  BODY BY JAKE WITH VIDEO ­ por el camino recto. Y con los hom­ option of Adoption.  
WEBSITE DESIGNERS -needed  SEMESTER. GOING ABROAD.  $50.  bres, no se preocupan. Cuando el  Caring, devoted couple  Hey Sunflower girl ­here's your  
for projects next semester. 1-5610.  $600/MTH. PLEASE CALL 272­ CALL 272-3753 AFTER  tiempo es perfecto, uds. tendran un  wish to share our love,  message: I miss you.  
9847 ASAP  3:30 OR LV. MESSAGE  novio perfecto tambien. DON'T  laughs, and lives with an  Brad  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach  AND WILL CALL YOU BACK.  SETTLE! Todos los dias, escuchen  infant. Call for profile  
basic conversational English in  REGGAE D. J.  adios.  and more info: Andrea  Look at my mole. -Aaron Nevillle  
Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  234 0705  Feliz Navidad y Carinas,  and Lee: 1-800-213-3960.  
teaching certificate or European  FOR SALE: WOODBRIDGE  Alika  And now the award for hardest  
languages required. Inexpensive  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  I-BEDROOM CONDO WITH CAR­ "Spoglia playing every Sunday  worker in the section:  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­ PORT $59,900 RODGER PENDL,  SPIDER PEOPLE -wwweb design­ night, O'Conner's Pub -Rome,  ..... A. Rowan .....  
info. call: (206)971-3680 ext.K55843  PUS.GILUS PROPERTIES 272­6306  C&E 272-6877  ers needed for projects next semester. Callt-5610  Italy."  Jackie, You the s'"!!!  

Wednesday, December 11, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Herren leads Fresno to victory 
By DAVID KINNEY It was a blowout midway against the Minutemen since Associated Press Writer through the second half as Rutgers did it in a 103-96 over­Villanova took a 70-42 lead time victory on Feb. 24, 1991 ­PHILADELPHIA after 3-pointers b~ l'reshmen a span of 184 games. 
Tim Thomas had 15 points Brian Lynch and T.. l. Caouette. and No. 4 Villanova outshot and Penn staged a bri,.r rally on Herren, a native of Fall River, outrebounded overmatched 3-pointers by Kn~it; and Matt attended Boston College out of Penn in a 89-62 blowout Langel, but it stall1·d after a high school but injured his Tuesday night. technical foul was r.alled on wrist and played in only game 
The Wildcats (6-0) put the Dunphy. there before transferring to game away on a 14-7 run early The Quakers sta,vnd close Fresno State. in the second half. pushing the early behind 3-pointPrs by Jed He finished 9-for-14 from the ball upcourt and running Penn Ryan and Kreitz, \\'lio led Penn field, a far cry from his 3-for-1 0 weary. They took a 55-33 lead with 11 :~-pointers going into effort against Oregon on keyed by Howard Brown's eight Tuesday's ganw. Tlw.1 pulled to Saturday, the Bulldogs' first points and a flurry of fast 21-20 with 8:45 l'l~l!laining, but loss of the season. breaks, layups and a dunk. Villanova's aggrnssil P man-to­The Minutemen (2-4) trailed 
Thomas had 11 points in the man defense worn down Penn. 52-42 at halftime and were first half as Villanova took a 41-The Wildcats linisl11~d the half able to get within nine points 26lead. with a 20-G rutJ behind only three times over the final 
The Quakers (2-1) didn't Thomas' 11 points. most com­nine minutes. Each time Herren match up at any position, from ing inside or at tlw l'oulline. made a big play to make sure 6-foot-6 center George Mboya Thomas missncl his first foul there was no big run by the to Garett Kreitz, their 6-foot-1 shot in 2X attempts. home team. leading scorer. And the Wildcats took advantage, scor­No. 16 Fresno St. I 02 When Massachusetts got to ing 50 points inside and chal­MassaehuscUs RI 71-62 with 9:46 left, Herren lenging Penn to make its made a great feed to Terrance jumpers and 3-pointers. Penn A:VIIIIIIST, Mass. Roberson for a dunk. The couldn't. Chris llnrren mad1• his home­Minutemen scored on their next 
Coach Fran Dunphy played coming a special otli'. scoring a possession, but Herren three freshman at times, and it career-high 2!'i points Tuesday answered with a nice drive to showed in turnovers and ill­night as No. 1(J l;t.,·sno State restore the margin to 11 points. advised bombs several feet out­beat Massachus1~tts I 02-81 to The last time the Minutemen side the 3-point circle. Kreitz's become the f'i rs l non -confer­closed within single digits was 18 points led the Quakers, who ence team to win in the Mullins 84-75 with 4:19 left on a 3­shot just 23-for-62. Center and set a scoring record pointer by Carmela Travieso. 
Jason Lawson had 13 points doing it. Herren was fouled eight sec­for the Wildcats. Brown and The Bulldogs ((J-II scored the onds later, made one of two Malik Allen added 10 each. most points by an opponent in free throws, and after Fresno 
Villanova outrebounded the the Mullins C:nnt1•r. which State got the rebound of the Quakers 53-25, led by Rafal opened during tiH~ I '!'12-93 sea­miss, he found Roberson all Bigis' 15. son, and they WI'!''' the first alone for a 3-pointer with 4:04 Alvin Williams has led the Villanova Woldcats to a 6-0 start this season. 
team to scor1~ ItiO points left that made it 88-75. 

Make a Differ·ence With ... OCCUPATIONAL TH~ERAPY 
Improve Your Patients' Quality ofLife 
Occupational therapy is a 90-year-old health care profession concerned with the use of purposeful physical and mental activities for individuals who are challenged by physical and/or psychosocial disabilities, develop­mental or learning disabilities, poverty or cultural differences, or the aging process. Occupational therapists work with these patients to maxi­mize independence, improve quality of life, minimize disability, and m;:.inrain health. 
... 
r------------_____ ; __ --:-~.--­
Join a Rapidly Growing Profession 
' 

According to US. Department of Labor statistics, occupational therapy MIDWESTERN UNIVERSITY is among the fastest growing health care professions, with the number of 
0CCUPI\TIONAL THERAPY PROGRAM 
available positions totaling 55,000 nationally with an expected increase Please send me the following information (Check all that apply):in new positions approaching 60% by the year 2000. 
U OT Program Catalog Q OT Program Brochure Q Admission Application 
Study With the Health Care Team at Midwestern University 
Name
Midwestern University's College of Allied Health Professions offers a 30­monrh, entry-level program in occupational therapy leading to a Master 
Address 
of Occupational Therapy degree. The program includes classroom learn­ing and 23 weeks of full-time clinical experience.You will work closely City/State/Zip with students in the College's Physical Therapy program as part of our interdisciplinary approach to Lherapy education. The University, which Undergraduate/Graduate College is located in Downers Grove, Illinois (a western suburb of Chicago) also 
Projected Enrollment Date
administers colleges of osteopathic medicine and pharmacy. 
Phone
Learn more about a career in occupational therapy at Midwestern ·University by returning the form or calling 630-515-6188. 
Return to Office ofAdmissions, Midwestern University, 555 31st St., Downers Grove, IL 60515 

Wednesday, December 11, 1996

The Observer • SPORTS 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Xavier continues to dominate 


Associated Press 
CINCINNATI 
No. 19 Xavier extended its best start in four years by scor­ing the first 15 points and rolling to a 94-86 victory Tuesday night over Long Island. 
Darnell Williams and T.J. Johnson scored six points apiece as Xavier (6-0) opened a 15-0 lead in the first six minutes. The Musketeers led by double digits until the closing minutes, when it put its backups in. 
Xavier is off to its best start since 1992-93, when it opened 8-0 and eventually climbed to 18th in the national poll. The current ranking is its best since then. 
Long Island (1-3) opened its season with a 76-73 victory over St. John's, but has lost its last three games. The Blackbirds are halfway through a season-open­ing stretch of eight consecutive road games. 
The game essentially was de­cided in the first seven minutes, when Long Island missed its first 10 shots and had eight turnovers while Xavier hit 7 -of­14 from the field. Long Island trailed by as many as 25 and didn't get the lead under double digits until the final seconds. 
Johnson finished with 19 points, leading five Xavier play­ers in double figures. Charles Jones led Long Island with 30 points. 
Five of Xavier's six victories have been lopsided. The only close game was a 71-69 victory over then-No. 1 Cincinnati on the Bearcats' home court, a win that vaulted Xavier into national prominence. 
Xavier's strength is its back-press. Long Island couldn't han­dle either. 
Xavier's guards either drove past the slower Blackbirds for layups or penetrated and passed off for easy baskets. Xavier had five dunks and four layups in the first half, when it pulled ahead 48-28. Long Island trailed by 20 points for most of the second half, closing the margin only when Xavier put its backups in the game. 
No. 20 Arkansas 137 
Troy St. 70 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. 

Pat Bradley scored 20 of his 27 points in the first half and No. 20 Arkansas tied a Southeastern Conference record with 21 3­pointers in a 137-70 victory over Troy State on Tuesday night. 
Bradley, a 6-foot-2 sophomore guard who had a career-high 30 points Saturday at Missouri, hit a career-high 8-of-11 3-point attempts and 9-of-13 shots over-
Why not? Just because Four Food Groups doesn't 
raooe<Ir in The Observer anymore doeSf!'t 1 . mean you can't get your daily dose o'laughs. The book of all the comic strips, "A Well Balanced Meal," is on sale at both the Hammes book­store and LaFortune Info desk. its 
$8.95, too. 
nter. 

the perfect hristmas gift for any domer. 
all. 
Eight of Arkansas' 10 players scored in double figures as the Hazorbacks shot 58 percent from the field. 
Arkansas connected on 21 of 37 3-pointers in tying Kentucky's SEC record and sur­passing the Arkansas reeord of 20 set in 1993 against Texas Southern. 
Ali Thompson had 17 points, Glendon Alexander 15, Lee Wilson, Landis Williams and Kareem Reid 13 each, Steve Green 12 and Derek Hood 10 for the Hazorbaeks (4-1). Reid also had 14 assists. 
Wilson grabbed 11 rebounds and Hood and Williams eaeh had 10 as Arkansas won the rebound battle 54-38. 
Hhodney Donaldson had 15 points and Eric Neal 14 for Troy State (3-4). 
The Trojans led the nation the last three seasons in 3-point at­tempts, but were just 8-of-33 Tuesday night. 

., 
• 
court, which features slashing 1...-----------~ guards who run an uptempo of­fense and trigger a full-court 
'I 



-6 p.m. 
25% offall discountable merchandise! 
Notre Dame Sportsweareinsignia Merchandise Religious ArticleseGift & Jewelry Items Bibles and Inspirational Books 
The Hammes 


Notre Dame Bookstore 
''on the campus" 



Wednesday, December II, I996 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page I9 

·­

page 20 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 11, 1996 
-
e keep you in


W our prayers as the semester draws to a close. 



ay this 
Christmas be a time ofrenewal and rejoicing in Christ our· New Born Savior. 

Third Sunday of Advent 
Weekend Presiders Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday,December 14 5:00p.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
Sunday,December 15 
10 a.m. Rev. Daniel Jenky, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this coming Sunday 
First Reading: Isaiah 61: 1-2, 10-11 
Second Reading: 1 Thessalonians 5:16-24 
Gospel: John 1:6-8, 19-28 

"LA M 0 RENITA," THE MADONNA OF THE PEOPLE 
My dream is to visit Mexico City some year on the 12th of December, the feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe. I have contemplated her image encased in glass behind the main altar of the basilica built in her honor, and have walked the hill ofTepeyac where she appeared. But nothing compares to the festivities celebrated there in these days. Pilgrims stream to Mexico City from all parts of the country, many walking in large groups for days, in something reminiscent of medieval European pilgrimages. Colorful "matachines," with plumed headdresses, dance and turn to the beat of drums in the plaza. Throngs of pilgrimsjam the grounds all around, bearing flowers for Our Lady, many camping in the open air through the night. Throughout the nation, children of the rich and the poor dress like indigenous children in imitation ofjuan Diego. It is the greatest of Mexican celebrations. 
Anyone who visits Mexico City for the first time is struck by the unavoid­able presence of this Virgin of Mexico. Her image is found in taxi cabs and buses, churches and bars, emblazoned on t-shirts and baseball caps, and frequently men choose her as their tattoo of choice. No one, believ­er or unbeliever, can understand Mexico without first understanding Our Lady of Guadalupe. She is Mexican, and she lives deep in the heart of Mexicans, and defines their culture. 
I believe that this fierce devotion stems from the fact that Guadalupe, "La Virgencita," has always been a refuge and comfort for the Mexican peo­ple in times of pain and turmoil. She first appeared on December 9, 1531, to an Aztec Christian namedJuan Diego. It was a time of upheaval and great suffering. The Aztec deities had fallen silent after the brutal Conquest of 1519, the masses were confused and abandoned, and Christ was as yet an unknown God. Suddenly, near the sight of the ancient Aztec mother goddess, a woman appears clothed with the sun. She speaks Nahuatl, the language of the people, she shares their features­with her dark hair and beautiful copper-colored skin-and she tellsJuan Diego that she is his mother who loves him as a son. She gifts him with her motherly concern and presence, and eventually with her image left on his cloak. 
She has been a comfort and gift to the Mexican people ever since. The history of Mexico has been torturous at times, with a difficult struggle for independence, foreign occupation, the loss of half its territory to the United States, a bloody revolution, grinding poverty, and constant politi­cal and economic upheavals. Our Lady of Guadalupe has been with them through it all, and has followed the poor immigrant<; of Mexico in our nation as they struggle to find a better life for their children. 
I believe that this dark-skinned Madonna can help us understand Notre Dame. What was Mary to Fr. Sarin but his comfort and inspiration through fires, cholera epidemics, and the poverty of his community and students. She never abandoned him or Notre Dame, and Notre Dame has placed her on a dome as both a comfort and a reminder. Mary is still a refuge to many students who struggle as they kneel at night before the lights of the grotto. We see in her one like us, but one who has power to comfort, to console, and to help us find our way to her Son. 
On this feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe, we thank a poor nation for a gift so great, for she is the Patroness of the Americas. Our American church and our University are enriched by her Mexican-American children who can help us recapture our love and devotion to her, people who have kept faith with God through impossible odds. May our celebration at Mass today, December 12, in our own basilica, bring her honor, give glory to Christ, and make us more committed to the poor of Mexico and elsewhere in our midst. They need our words ofwelcome, solace and love. And may she be a comfort to all of us children of Notre Dame, in our studies for Final Exams, our personal and family struggles, in our desire to keep faith through the upheavals of life. 
Fr. Pat Neary, C.S.C. 
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 



Wednesday, December 11, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
•NBA 
Heat squeaks by Cavs on last second shot 
Associated Press Mills raked Lenard on a layup to score 21 straight points. Oakley. Washington trailed by attempt, and Lenard hit both Knicks 85, Bullets 73 "If something goes wrong, double digits throughout the CLEVELAND foul shots. After another foul on they jump off the bandwagon. quarter. 
Voshon Lenard banked in a the inbounds, Mourning drove NEW YORK It's been like that 12 years, and twisting second-chance shot at down the middle for a clunk and Patrick Ewing, playing for the I'm fed up with it," Ewing said. Warriors 101, Raptors 91 the buzzer and the Miami Heat a 69-59 lead with 8:01 left. first time since he criticized New The comments were splashed beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 76-After Gary Grant sank a 3-York fans, heard some of the across the sports pages in New TORONTO 74 Tuesday night. pointer to make it 72-61, the loudest boos of his career as the York, and the crowd wasted no Joe Smith scored a career­
After Bobby Phills tied it at 7 4 Cavs came back again, scoring Knicks sent Washington to its time reacting to it. high 36 points and grabbed a with two free throws with 24 eight straight. Danny Ferry hit a fifth straight loss, 85-73 Tuesday The booing got loudest as season-high 17 rebounds seconds left, the Heat set up a 3-jumper to cut it to 72-69 with night. Ewing missed his first eight Tuesday night, leading the point attempt that Dan Majerle 3:40 to play. Ewing was booed during play­shots, and it didn't help matters Golden State Warriors to a 101­missed from the top of the circle. Mills led Cleveland with 17. er introductions and nearly that opposing center Gheorghe 91 victory over the Toronto 
The rebound bounced toward and Hill had 15. Terrell Brandon every time he touched the ball, Muresan scored eight points as Raptors. the sideline, and after chasing it had 14 points on 4-of-17 shoot­but he scored four straight bas­the Bullets opened a 10-4lead. Latrell Sprewell added 23 down, Lenard dribbled through ing against Hardaway. kets after his 0-for-8 start to Washington was ahead 24-22 points, Chris Mullen 16 and the defenders before making a wild, Cleveland took its first lead at help New York pull ahead for when Ewing checked back into Warriors outrebounded the double-clutch jumper just before 41-40 on a layup by Phills three good in the second quarter. the game with 8:50 left in the Raptors 51-32 in ending the buzzer sounded. minutes into the third quarter. The 12-year veteran finished second quarter, but things Toronto's four-game home win­
Lenard had eight points. The Majerle, who came in with a with 15 points on 7-for-21 quickly changed for New York's ning streak. Heat was led by Tim 14.7 scoring average, finally got shooting as the Knicks beat the 10-time All-Star. Smith, whose previous high Hardaway's 25, while Alonzo his first points with a 3-pointer Bullets for the 13th straight time Ewing made his next four was 30 points, scored 21 in the Mourning had 14. that gave the Heat a 4 7-43 lead at Madison Square Garden. shots, drawing louder cheers first half on 8-of-14 from the 
Cleveland overcame the Heat's three minutes later. Majerle was New York improved to 6-4 at each time, and a 3-pointer by field. The Warriors used a 10-2 14-point first-half lead and 1-for-1 0 and had three points in the Garden, where the fans have Chris Childs gave New York a run to close out the second trailed only 39-35 at halftime. It 46 minutns. booed in all but one of the 10 35-32 lead. The Knicks closed quarter to take a 50-44 lead at was tied 57-57 after three quar­Brandon got an uncharacter­home games. the first half with 12-1 run to the break. ters. istic technical foul when he ar­"They're annoying me. If lead 42-33 at the break. Mark Price made consecutive 
But Miami started the fourth gued his fourth personal foul. they're going to act that way, The booing resumed early in field goals to open the third with a 12-2 run. including four Hardaway sank both fre() throws they might as well stay home," the third quarter when Ewing quarter as Golden State went on straight points that followP.d an and the technical to mak() it 54-Ewing said Saturday after the had three turnovers in the first a 9-0 run to open a 15-point intentional foul by the Cavs' 51 Heat with 3:50 left in the crowd turned on the Knicks four minutes, but the Bullets lead with 9:21 to play in the Chris Mills. third. when they allowed the Clippers were unable to pull closer than quarter. 
four points and trailed 63-54 The Raptors, coming off an entering the fourth. 97-89 upset of the Chicago Bulls, 
The crowd responded to the closed to 78-71 on Carlos Knicks' hustle in the fourth, Rogers' layup with 8:57 to play, most noticeable a pair of tip-ins but Smith's three-point play and a rare, driving layup with a allowed the Warriors to regain quick first step by Charles their double-digit lead. 
We Will Meet! Beat! or Match! 
any professional licensed competitor's prices 
We're in the spotlight for performance, precision, and elegance. We offer air brushing and artwork at its finest. 
* One coupon per visit please. 

THt! f' t!AR THt! f' t!AR 
the kind of man to the kind of man to take home to mom take home to mom 
SR 23 at Ironwood 272-0312 or 272-8471 
Just minutes from campus! 

Convenient Parking We Welcome Walk-Ins & Appointments 
-

Fri., .. in la in LL:•r•~n• 
$3 admi 

@ the doo
......,..rM~ 

~~------------------------~-~ 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, December 11, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 






"The Snake" slithers into Heisman race 
By MEL REISNER 
Associated Press Writer 
TEMPE, Ariz. 
If Jake "The Snake" 
Plummer didn't exist, some­
one would have invented him 
to jazz up the Heisman race. 
Quirky. Intuitive. Brilliant. Emotional. The adjectives run together like watercolors under a tap. The one that gets used over and over: most valuable. 
The No. 2 Sun Devils (11-0) have won 15 of their last 16 games under Plummer, who will make his 40th consecu­tive start at quarterback for the Sun Devils against 'Ohio State in the Rose Bowl. 
"I may go another 34 years of coaching without running into another guy like this in terms of where things really, really counted, when our backs were against the wall, he consistently -and I'm talking 100 percent this sea­son -did whatever needed to bo done." Arizona State coach Bruce Snyder said. 
That means evade almost any rush, as he did so efl'ort­Jossly in a the Sun Devils' 19­0 upset of then-No. 1 Nebraska on Sept. 21. 
Although he adopted his nickname after reading Ken "Snake" Stabler's autobiogra­phy, "The Snake" aptly de­scribes Plummer's intuitive ability to elude pursuers. 
Just ask UCLA coach Rob Toledo. lie stood by helplessly as Plummer threw a TD pass, caught another and ran for a third in tho final tJight min­utes of a comeback 42-34 win over the Bruins. 
"I nevPr felt our lead was safe with Plummer,'' Toledo 
said. 

It's a safe bet you won't see Plummer take the field with­out red, white and blue sweatbands above the elbow of both arms, a habit he picked up when he wore one in 1994 against Brigham Young and had a career-best, 327-yard game. And the 6­foot-2, 190-pound senior never goes anywhere without a white ASU baseball cap, worn backward. 
Plummer says he just likes hats, but acknowledges that he wore the same one for months without washing it after a professor in onn of his classes chided him for forget­ting to wear it one day. 
"I washed it after tho sea­son," Plummer said. "I hope that doesn't have anything to do with the bowl game." 
He also likes extra-long socks. and nearly panicked when a trainer told him there were none available before the Sun Devils' game against Arizona. 
"But we went out ther0 and kicked them around, so obvi­ously it was not the socks doing it !'or us," Plummer said. 
In many eases, it has been Plummer doing it !'or tlw Sun Devils this season. leading them to their first undefeated season in 21 ynars. 
When Arizona Stat«' upset Nebraska, he threw for 292 yards, tlw fourth higlwst total of his earccr. But. that was overshado•ved by Arizona State's defense, which rattled the Cornhuskcrs into three safeties and the achirvement of felling the two-time nation­
al champions. 

By KELLEY SHANNON 
Associated Press Writer 
SAN ANTONIO 
The San Antonio Spurs, reel­ing from a 3-15 start, fired coach Bob Hill on Tuesday, the same day David Robinson was to join the lineup for the first time this season. 
Spurs general manager Gregg Popovich replaces Hill and was to make his first appearance as an NBA coach Tuesday night at Phoenix, where Robinson was expected to play against the Suns. 
Hill was fired despite having led San Antonio to 121 victories the last two seasons. But with Robinson out with a sore back, the Spurs started 2-10, the worst start in franchise history. 
Even without Hobinson, though, team president Jack Diller said he thought the team's performance should be better than it has been. 
"We have per-ceived over some period of time now that the team has not been playing anywhere near as competitively as it should," Diller said. "We had dropped to a point where it was unacceptable." 
Diller said Popovich, who was an assistant with Golden State for two seasons, will be Hill's permanent -not interim ­replacement and will retain the general manager's job. 
"At this point I thought a change in direction was neces­sary," said Popovich, who was an assistant with the Spurs from 1988-92. "The decision wasn't made in a knee-jerk way. It was made with a lot of thought and a lot of counsel and a Jot of heartache." 
Popovich acknowledged in a telephone interview that Hill's ouster and his stepping in as coach the day Hobinson was set to rnturn "looks quite self-serv­ing." But Popovich said a 

• 
Furnished apartments

• 
Central air 

• 
Swimming pool/Spa 

• 
Tennis, volleyball & basketball courts 

• 
24 hour laundry 

• 
Shuttle bus 

• 
Flexible lease plans 



.. 
.. 
Apartntents available for your selection. For more information call 272-1441 
Some apartments still available for January occupancy. 
•NBA 
Hill replaced as Spurs coach 
change was needed. 
"It's better sooner than later," he said. "We'll have more time to do what we need to do with this particular group of guys. To wait just for (public relations) reasons or for a so­called better time just doesn't make sense as far as the good of the team is concerned." 
The Spurs have been plagued by other injuries, too. 
Chuck Person has been out all season with a back problem, Charles Smith has missed games because of inflammation in his right knee, and other players have been struggling with assorted minor injuries. 
On Monday, Hill had said the team's mental state was not good. 
"We've been playing short­handed and that gets a little old. It wears you down," Hill 
was  quoted  as  saying  in  
Tuesday's  San  Antonio  
Express-News.  

Before Tuesday's game, Robinson said the players liked the meticulous Hill and were disappointed he was leaving. 
"We're all very shocked," Robinson said. "Do I agree with 
at Kickers 
TUESDAY: 
Karaoke Night 
WEDNESDAY: 
DJ starts at 9:00 p.m. Alternative & retro 70's CO's & T-shirts 
Greatest Music Greatest Food and No Cover Charge EVER! 
the decision? No. But-it's not my decision to make. I feel like if we have some adversity, we should try to stick it out and stay together." 
Ilill's dismissal followed a loss last weekend to the Vancouver Grizzlies, the only team in the league with a record worse than San Antonio. 
Despite the Spurs' regular­season success under Ilill the last two seasons, the team didn't excel in the postseason. 
He led the Spurs to a league­best 62-20 record in 1994-95, his first season in San Antonio, but they lost to eventual cham­pion Houston in the Western Conference finals. Last season, they won 59 games only to lose to Utah in the confernnce semi­finals. 
Diller said Spurs executives were disappointed with the team's playoff performance last season. 
llill came to the Spurs in August 1994 from the Orlando Magic, where he was an assis­tant coach. lie coached the New York Knieks in 198(>-H7 and the Indiana Pacers from 1990­1993. 
THURSDAY: 
Open Jam Area's Premier Bands Hottest Spot in Town! 
FRIDAY & SATURDAY: 
DJ Dance Party 
231 Dixieway North 
between Cleveland and Douglas on 
US31-33 
4 pool tables, 4 dart boards, big screen TV's, and good times for all! 
Always open 'til 3AM 
M·F open at 3pm, Sat open at noon 



20%-50% OFF ALL MERCHANDISE 
Nike, Hilfiger, Cutter & Buck, Slazenger, Ashworth 

No other discounts apply 
,;;.) 
-=·>. .:'JI 

Wednesday, December 1 1, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
• HocKEY 


Irish again sign top recruits 
our skill. offensive ability and speed up front. All three of these players can help improve that dimension of our offense and each has the skill level to contribute immediately for us next season." 
Carlson is a member of the USA Hockey Select-16 team and. as a speedy left wing for Edna High School, earned MVP. all-conference, and all­metro honors last season while also being named to the state all-tournament team. Chipchase. who has experience playing at both center and left wing, recently played on the Team Ontario squad that cap­tured the under-17 world championship. 
Renowned for his ability as both a defensive forward and offensive threat, Chipchase currently plays for the Waterloo Siskins of the Western Ontario League. Van Arkel is a right-handed for­ward who led Team Illinois in scoring last year with 60 goals and 43 assists. Currently play­ing with the Milton (Ont.) Merchants Junior A team, the strong-skating Van Arkel also has been named to the all­tournament team at the presti­gious Midget Showcase. 
These quality players will join another group of talented players. the current freshman, who decided to matriculate at Notre Dame. Many considered this class. which Poulin recruited, to be among the top freshman classes in the coun­try last year. To what does he attribute his success? 
"Notre Dame sells itself," he stated. "It's really a unique 
Notre Dame's New Hockey Recruits 
By CHARLEY GATES Sports Writer 
Just how crucial is recruiting to a coach's and a team's suc­cess? "Absolutely crucial," an­swered head Notre Dame hockey coach Dave Poulin. "It's the lifeblood of the sport. To be successful, you have to attract the top talent." 
Notre Dame's past two recruiting classes have been outstanding -freshman and sophomores usually comprise two-thirds of the starting line­up on any given night. And it 
The Observer/Brent Tadsen 

Hockey Coach Dave Poulin has consistently attracted top recruits. 
appears this trend will con­intue, as three stand-out for­wards have already committed to play hockey at the University of Notre Dame dur­ing the NCAA's early signing period. 
The signees include Dan Carlson (Edna, Minn.). Chad Chipchase (Clinton, Ont.), and Matt Van Arkel (Richton Park, Ill.). 
"After this season," Poulin explained, "we will graduate three players with extensive front-line experience, so our primary goal was to increase 


§athuurdlovyo 
0 


ILaF(Q)Jrtune JBallr(Q)(Q)m. 
8:00PM 9:00PM 9:30PM 
10:00 PM 

11:00 PM 


Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
product. It's a great combina­tion of academics, athletics, and values." 
Assisting Poulin in recruiting players are his assistant coaches, Tom Carroll and Andy Slaggert. 
"Both of them are absolutely critical in the whole process," elucidated Poulin. "Tom is good at targeting kids who will do well here, because there is a Jot more to it than playing hockey." 
Indeed it does take a lot more than fancy skating to succeed at an academically­renowned university, such as Notre Dame. Because of the 
A Year Without Santa Clause Frosty the Snowman The Grinch Who Stole Christmas Rudolf the Red-Nosed Reindeer A Christmas Story 
high academic-level, "our mar­ket segment is smaller. We go after kids who are good on the ice and in the classroom." 
The recruiting proces·s. how­ever, does not stop with the signing of these players. At the end of this season. two de­fenseman, Brian McCarthy and Ben Nelsen, and a goalie, Erik Berg will graduate, so Poulin will be looking to fill these holes in the line-up. If the trend of excellence in recruit­ing continues, and every rea­son exists for people to believe that it will, Notre Dame will be back on top in no time. 
..... 
':J,:. 
-.._ 



-._-----~-----~---­

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, December I I, 1996 
.. 
-' 
-
.. 
• SAINT MARY'S 




Belles join MIAA conference 
Obs~rv~r Staff Report 
IIILLSDALE, Mich. 
America's oldest eollegiate athletic conference will grow from seven to nine members beginning with the 1997-98 school year. 
Defiance College of Ohio and Saint Mary's College of Indiana have been awarded provisional membership in the 108-year­old Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association (MIAA), according to Dr. John Jacobson. president of Hope College and chair of the league's Council of Presidents. 
They will join seven Michigan colleges -Adrian, Albion. Alma, Calvin. Hope, Kalamazoo and Olivet -in comprising the NCAA Division Ill conference which offers 18 sports for men and women. 
Commissioner Sheila Wallace-Kovalchik and the MIAA is looking to the future with this step toward expan­sion. "As the NCAA evolves through the growing pains of restructuring, we felt it was time to make a decision regarding our place in the ever changing scene of NCAA Division I I I athletics. Previously independent col­leges are seeking conference affiliation. Both Defiance and Saint Mary's support the philosophy and mission of our eonference and we're happy to wdcume them into the long standing traditions of the MIAA and look forward to their inclusion in our sports schedules." 
The MIAA has condueted 
·•. 




1 20o/o DisctJunl 
tJn £uer1Jihing in lhe ShireI 

Decem6er 1'1, 9:00am -1:00pm 
Jnlercepl greal sauings/or eueriJ ctJll.eiJe /tJtllballlan IJn 

• 

IJI1Ur lis#. hie carriJ a lflide uarieiiJ tJ1 Hall tJI tame and cllllege leam merchandise including nlllre Dame. 
Recruii1JI1ur lflhtJle leam 111 ctJme in lwm 1·5pm ltJ meel Sanla and eni"'J liue Chrmmas cawls lflhile IJI1U sh11pl 
* 
* 
Cheerlulhj al 
·•. 

full-season championships in multiple sports since 1888. This is the first change in MIAA nwmbership since 1960. The MIAA's continuity is noteworthy. Of the I 0 schools that have ever belonged, seven are still members. The only former members are Michigan State University (1888-1907), Eastern Michigan Univm·sity ( 1892-1926) and Hillsdale College (1888-1960). The in­augural year for current mem­bers are Adrian (1908), Albion (1888), Alma (1902), Calvin (1953). llope (1926), Kalamazoo (1896) and Olivet (1888). 
Sports sponsored by the MIAA include baseball, men's and women's basketball. men's and women's cross country, football. men's and women's golf, men's and women's soc­cer, softball, men's and women's swimming, men's and women's tennis, men's and women's track and women's volleyball. 
Even though the new mem­ber schools are from outside Michigan, the conference will keep its name, according to Wallace-Kovalchik. 
Defiance is a coeducational liberal arts college of 900 stu­dents located in Defiance, Ohio while Saint Mary's is a liberal arts college of 1,500 women in Notre Dame, Ind. Both are NCAA Division Ill members and neither is currently affili­ated with a conference. This will be Saint Mary's first con­ference affiliation. Defiance currently offers 16 of the 18 sports sponsored by the MIAA while Saint Mary's offers seven of the nine sports offered by the league for women. 
HAPPY 21ST BIRTHDAY JASON POPE ON DECEMBER 
1TfH! LOVE, MOM, DAD, & DOUG 
•NBA 

Rodman Suspended 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
The Chicago Bulls suspended Dennis Hodman without pay for two games Tuesday, citing his profane language in a television interview following the team's loss Sunday to the Toronto Raptors. 
The Bulls said in a statement that the suspension would go into effect immediately, with Rodman missing Wednesday's game against Minnesota and Friday's game at New .Jersey. 
"Dennis' use of foul and abusive language and the embar­rassment he caused the Chicago Bulls organization by subject­ing young children and loyal fans to his profane outburst cannot and will not be tolerated," said .Jerry Krause, the Bulls' vice president of basketball operations. 
"We condemn in every way what Dennis said and the words he used;' Krause said. ''This suspension, which will cost Dennis $104,878 in salary, speaks out about our coneern." 
Krause said that the team would donate the $104,878 to char­ity "so that some good may come out of this situation." 


For the past 30 years, Holy Cross College has offerl'<i thousand~ ofstudent~ the chance for agreat education. But there's one thing we haven't been able to offer: a place to stay on campus. 
Now we can. Starting with the 1997-98 academic year, Holy Cross will have alimitl'<i amount of residence hall space available. 
Atwo-year, transfer intent college with 
" ··.HoLY 
astrong libe!"J.I arts foundation, small classes . CROSS and an intimate, personal setting, Holy Cros..'i ~~..J COLLEGE has helped put many student~ on the road Office of Admissions 
1~0. Box 308
to asuccessful college education. With our 
Notre Dame, IN 46SS6-0308 
new resident facilities, we can serve our (219) 239-8400 
Fax (2!9) 233-7427
student'i even better. 
E-~1ail: bccadmil'@!(1111.com 
Web Site: bttp.!!bome.mwi.sofl.com!bo(l'cro..~,· 
Announcing the 1997-98 National Security Education Program Competition 
Win an NSEP scholarship to study abroad in regions of he world outside ofCanada and western Europe. Applicable most foreign study abroad programs. Preference given to '" 1:1111111 ... , ts proposing to study business, economics, history, onal affairs, political and policy sciences, applied sci­, engineering, mathematics and computer science. Areas secondary interest to NSEP include: law, medicine/health other social sciences. 
Scholarships available for summer, one semester, or full year programs. 
Recipients of an NSEP Undergraduate Scholarship must agree to work in a national security position or in higher education upon graduation for a period equal to the duration of the scholarship . 
For more information stop by I 02-B O'Shaughnessy Hall or call 631-7531. 


Wednesday, December 11, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
thought Derek was a catalyst first half and 24 ahead in the 
(offensively). He made a couple second. The Irish kept the
Men's 
of great drives to the basket. game moving with good transi­continued from page 28 He loves to get out on the fast tion offense and lots of points 
break and run. Defensively, he on the fast break. With 4:48 down." is a digger and a hanger." remaining, the walk-ons began 
Balanced scoring finally Antoni Wyche added 10 to find their way into the blow­found its way into the season's points and forced the Wildcat out, and out-played New record books as five Irish play­defense to move out of the post. Hampshire's squad in the foul­ers notched eight or more His two three point shots and fest that ensued. points with three in double-fig­success in driving the lane are Guard Carlos Bradberry led ures. good signs of progress. the Wildcats with 16 points on 
Derek Manner's 12 points "It was great to see Admore 6-16 shooting. He had some came mostly on tip-ins and and Anton loosen up and finally effectiveness on the dribble, strong fast-break play. Manner begin to score the ball and re­and also went 2-3 from down also helped keep the Wildcats' lax a little bit," MacLeod admit­town. leading scorer tamed as he ted. "That's what we need "We were actually pleased bumped forward Matt Acres them to do." with how we were playing," into a dismal 4-16 shooting The Irish had the lead with Jackson said. "We missed free night and 11 points. 16:28 remaining in the first throws and a lot of good looks 
"Derek is a very competitive half, and never looked back. from the perimeter, so we player; he loves to practice, he They had a double-figure point weren't pleased with our shoot­loves to play, he loves a chal­differential for most of the ing. In terms of our execution, lenge," MacLeod evaluated. "I game, up 13 at one point in the our effort, and our intensity we 

The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those who have supported its student caller incentive program. 
KFC 
Lula's Cafe 

Papa John's Pizza BW3 Pizza Hut, Inc. Between the Buns ProForm Bike Shop Cassino's Pizza of New York Rally's Hamburgers Cinemark Movies l 0 Shear Phazes Colonial Pancake House Sporty Cuts Cornucopia Natural Foods Restaurant Studebagels Funny Bone Comedy Club Sunny's Korean Garden Patio Grains & Grinds Bagel Cafe Tickler's Comedy Club Granger Tap & Grill Steakhouse The Varsity Shop Karen's Home Style Deli Wing's Etc. Restaurant & Pub 
~ ~ll·ECir IVIIlCIZ•E\ • 111ust P. 
resent C.
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 

O{JpOI} 
r----------------------,
• Stylists specializing in 
Holiday Special! ! 10 Tanning ! 
a wide range of styling I I for dances & special $1 off shampoo and cut !Sessions for $15 ! 
Expires 12/20/96 I

occasions • I 1 Expires 12/20/96 I 
L----------------------~ 
• Appointments necessary for tanning, relaxers, perms, and styles • 
(219) 271-7674 

Heard Any Good Rumors Lately? 


• Hemp Jewelry •Hats 
• Coats

THE 

Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line 1912 S. llth, Niles Belle Plaza 



STILE 
687-9123

co., we. 
•-fill c::::> ~ 

felt that we gained some ground." 
Notre Dame continues to lack scoring from the center slot. Marcus Young and Phil Hickey combined for one shot attempt, two missed free throws, and zero points in 37 minutes on the court. The duo also record­ed 11 rebounds. 
Matt Gotsch was unable to play against New Hampshire because of a bout with the flu. 
Notre Dame wants to take some confidence and momen­tum gained against the Wildcats into Rupp Arena when they face the top-ranked Kentucky Wildcats on Saturday at Kentucky. Although Kentucky will utilize a press much more difficult to break than the one Providence suffo­cated the Irish with last week­end, the players feel that the only way to enter the game is with an air of confidence. 
"We knew that if we could take this team and play our game like we're supposed to, then we'd really have some good momentum going into Saturday (at UK)," Manner said. "There's definitely ways to beat them, you just have to play your best game." 
"Everybody has to go in thinking that we're going to win, not just that we're going to be in the game," White said. 

We've got one "Turtle Creek is Full for 97-98 School Year!" 
We have been receiving lots of phone calls from students who have heard that we are no longer accepting applications because we have no apartments left for next school year. We want to let everyone know that 
Turtle Creek Still Has Plenty Of Availability in Both Townhomes and Apartments for the 97-98 School Year!! 
So stop by the teasing office today and pick up your information and application packet before the rumor becomes reality! 
•Call today for information on limited availability for 5 month /eases for spring 97 
Turtle Creek Apartments "The Students First Choice in Off-Campus Housing" 
(219) 272-8124 

University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 

MESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00p.m. Thursday, Decemb~r 12, 1996 Friday, December 13, 1996 Washington Hall 

Open to the public. Admission: $6 General; $3 Students & Senior Citizens Tickets available at LaFortune Box Office or at the door. 


page 26 

Wo01en's 
continued from page 28 
game against the Jloosiers will mark their fourth in a week's time which has not allowed McGraw to run a solid prac­tice. 
"I think that we're just going to have to go out and start working hard, we haven't had a full practice for awhile," Peirick explained. "That is something we need right now, to just go out and work on the things that we need to in order to get better. 
"We've had so many games, our practices have just been concentrating on preparing for the next opponent. We need to get some good practices in without games in order to get better." 
The Irish will get their chance for a break after tonight's contest as they have only one more game in the month of December, at Valparaiso on Dec. 21. But, as Gaither explains, the team needs fine tuning on the men­tal side of the game as well. 
"I think we just need to get ourselves back to par and we need to increase our motiva­tion and desire to play," Gaither added. "We're a good team, a great team, and we just need to believe that. We need to play a great game against Indiana and I think that will help us get back on our toes." 
"We're angry about it," Gaither added. "They are teams we could have beaten. I think we need to find that inner strength so we can increase our mental game. 
"We also need to become more aggressive, and we have to want to win more than any other team." 
Fans will find out if they want to win more than the Hoosiers tonight as the Irish hope they are cured and don't need any more medicine. 
Wednesday, December II , 1996 
The Observer/Katie Kroener 

Notre Dame sophomore Sheila McMillen is coming off a career high 20 points against Wisconsin. 
Celebrate the Holtz spirit. .. 
When Lou Holtz was 12 years old, he hoped to someday coach Notre Dame. No one believed him. After 11 unforgettable seasons at the Irish helm, his beliefs have impacted many, on and off the field. Lou Holtz has been a tireless believer in: 
•The University ofNotre Dame 
•Community Service 
•The Guests ofthe Center for the Homeless 
Join Lou Holtz in his efforts to help others believe in themselves by ordering the "Irish Impact III ~ Lou" poster in support of the Center for the Homeless. 

Wednesday, December 11, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 27 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 

last-minute holiday purchases will help you avoid high interest charges. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Changing your lifestyle promises great happiness for you and your loved ones. Financial planning is essential. Discuss household needs with your mate or partner. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Let­ting someone in on a secret will transform your entire relationship. At work, concentrate on improving the bottom line. A benefactor could develop romantic feelings for you. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Be patient with those who do not understand your views. Progress comes when you contact former employers or colleagues. Put your romantic partner's needs first if a longtime arrangement suddenly comes to an end. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Going back to school will widen your intellectual horizons. Update your home library. A new relationship could be a dream come true. Use tact when dealing with anyone who questions your authori­ty. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An exciting new relationship could change your ou!look. Avoid raiding your financial reserves. Chil­dren will learn from your example. Be frugal. Look for painless ways to reduce your holiday food bills. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Instead of dropping hints, ,·oice your approval or dismay directly. Homemade gifts from the kitchen prove highly popular this month. Others appreciate your efforts to give them something special. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your good humor is contagious. Once you get a difficult co-worker's cooperation, you will accomplish more. Professional alliances enjoy favorable influences. Be modest when accepting an award or honor. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 

DOGI3E.RT THE CON5ULTA.NT 
LET /"'\[ DO THE TALKIN& WI-\EN W£. /"\EET WITH YOU~ 0055. 
SORe, evEN WHE~ t,JOU'REGONE, !'U. B6 
l.OOKINC1 
AFi'eR4JOUR WEt.FARE. 
A.5 YOU KNOW1 ANY IDEA f~OM THE POINTY-HAIRED 
WONDER I5 CR.UD 1  BUT  
WI-\EN YOU A.D D MY  
t..eiLITYJ WHAT DO  '<OU  
Ht>.VE~  
&1 Cowardly Lion  
portrayer and  
family  
64 Thanksgiving  
dishes  
&5 "Anything that  
can go wrong  
will"  
68 Freudian topics  
&9 "Green --"  
70 Singer Tennille  
71 Lucy's partner  
72 "Now you--,  
now ..."  
73 Pique  
DOWN  
1 "--Well That  
Ends Well"  
2 Miami five  
3 Lockheed  
Martin field  
4 Acclaim for  
Pavarotti  
5 Pin location  
& Volcanic fallout  
7Vista  



ACROSS 1 Pequod skipper 5 Mizzen and 
jigger, e.g. 10 Engine disks 14 Lascivious look 15Abbr. on a 
record label 16 Skin cream ingredient 17 Song aka "Somewhere, 
My Love" 19 Noon, in Nantes 20 Potbelly, e.g. 21 Society page 
word 22 Black, in poetry 23 1982 Meryl 
Streep film 27 Gangsta -­29 Gymnast's goal 
30 Word before rod or staff, in Psalms 
31 Brother of Jacob 
33 Gallery display 35 Prom couples 40 Popular mail 
order company 44 Look of contempt 45Bitof 
paronomasia 46 Floor square 47 Patty Hearst's 
kidnap grp. 50 Foot in the 
forest 52 Nile viper 53 Saul Bellow's 
Pulitzer-winning novel 59 Out of port &OHubbub 

MIKE PETERS 
SA41...DoeS lf4AT 
CHECK COMEON 
TI-lE FIRST OR 
iJ-Ie THIRI:>?
-
SCOTT ADAMS 
AND GOOD 
LOOK5 100! 
\ 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Take advantage of a golden opportu­nity that arises in January. Your intu­ition is your best guide in both career and romance. If a May­December alliance feels right, go for it 1 As your work responsibilities increase, delegate routine chores to subordinates. A child. will do you proud next June. Investing in a once-in-a-lifetime real estate deal could put you on easy street. Fall of '97 is the ideal time for a trip over­seas. Consult a travel agent. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: poet Emily Dickinson, movie star Dorothy Lamour, basket­ball player Mark Aguirre, director Kenneth Branagh. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Assistance comes from a mysterious source. A weight is lifted from your shoulders. Be grateful for favors large and small! Your optimistic nature is a big asset. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Exchanging data with well-informed associates helps get an important venture off the launching pad. Expect your requests to be granted. Romance will require a gentle touch. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A good day for buying and selling valuable objects. Trust your sixth sense when judging the quality of an item you are offered. A friend's input turns a project into a paying proposition. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): A co-worker's attitude may be puz­zling. Time is too short for you to dwell on things beyond your con­trol. Showcase your special talents to attract the notice of influential people. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Diplo­macy and compromise help you win a battle of wits. Cement new alliances in writing. Paying cash for 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
a Most docile Puzzle by Randall J. Hartman 
9 Cry at an awards 

28Z--zebra 53 Did fieldwork? ceremony 
32 Salt Lake City 54 Grammarian's athlete concern
11 Excuse 34 Spigot 55 Office notes 12 Oregon Indian 

3& Dramatize, with 

56 Deep voices 13 English "out" 57 BaseballChannel feeder 
37 Iron man event 

manager Joe 
38 Wriggly fish 

Editors and 58 Prison protests 
39 Escalator part 
Writers Month: 
41 Approximately 


• 

&2 Punjabi princess 63 Hot Lips Houlihan player 
66 Canton-born architect 
67 Former White House inits. 
-

r-------------------------------------­
-lL 








SPORTS 
page 28 
• MEN's BASKETBALL 

White breaks out of slump 
By DAVE TREACY post-game press conference. "I half time game was slammed in Associate Sports Editor was definitely heart-broken after a nice Derek Manner pass that we didn't get him." caught Garrity's defender on 
As an assistant coach at "lie does change the focus of the wrong side of his assign­Stanford University a few years what you can do offensively and ment. But missed free throws ago, University of New defensively with his presence. in the second period kept Hampshire head coach Jeff When he's not in the game, you Garrity out of his rhythm, forc­Jackson tried to n~cruit Pat feel a little more comfortable." ing other players to step for­(;arrity and Admore White. Garrity was in the game ward. 
It's a shame for Jackson that early, tallying 14 points in the Admore White toed the line. things didn't work out for the first six minutes of play, hitting The senior point guard made Cardinal because Notre Dame three-point shots and convert­some headway in snapping his used the players' services ing offensive rebounds seem­early season slump, tallying 11 against Jackson and his Wildcat ingly at will. lie scored only rebounds, eight points, and six ball club last night in a 68-47 four more points in the remain­assists in 22 minutes of play. Irish victory. der of tlw game, including two Combined with only one 
.. "Pat's a groat player," in the second half, on two turnover, White had easily his 
Jackson said wistfully at the dunks. His lone bucket after most productive effort of the season and made a huge dif­ference in the game. 
"I was happy for Admore; I knew he had been struggling coming into the game, but I'm disappointed that he started playing well against us," Jackson offered. "I think he has a chance to be a good play­er for Notre Dame." 
"(White) was out early this morning with nobody else on the floor, shooting," Irish head coach John MacLeod said. "Ad wants to have a good year, and we want him to have a good year. But I liked the way he played tonight; he really, really played hard." 
--
"We got the ball out and started running," White re­called. "I had a few chances to score and I took the shots, and fortunately for me they went 
see MENS I page 25 
Alums carry tradition to Pack 
By MIKE PREVITE Special Correspondent 
Tradition n. 1. tho handing down orally of customs, bolid's, etc. from generation to gtmeration. 2. a story, belief, etc. handed down this way. 3. a long-established custom that has the effect of an unwritten law. 
Images of football season are lasting in the minds of those who believe that the sport transcends time. When stories are told from father to son and son to grandson as tlw years pass, these images bind together to form a histo­ry; a collection of characters and magic moments that cre­atn a tradition. 

-
Nowhere in America has that tradition greater on a col­
lege campus whPre football is played than at Notre Dame. Each alumni, each player, each fan has indelible memo­ries of their piece of that tra­dition. 
In the world of pro football, the parallels br.tween the tradition in South Bend and the tradition in Green Bay, home of the Packers, are truly endless. • 
The parallel between Notre 
see ND-GB I page 16 

-



• vs. Indiana, Men's Diving 

December II, 7 p.m. 
at Longhorn Diving Invitational,
Women's Swimming and 


Notre Dame Sports Information 
Aaron Taylor is one of many former players to play for Green Bay. 
• at Kentucky, 

at Princeton, 
December 14, 8 p.m. 
\_ December 28, 4 p.m. 
By JOE CAVATO Spores Writer 
Recently the Notre Dame women's basketball team has received a dose of their own medicine. After jumping out of the blocks to a 6-1 record in which they upset two top ten foes, the No. 10 ranked Irish have lost two of their last three, suffering upsets to Purdue and No. 19 Wisconsin. 
Head coach Muffet McGraw has seen her team drop to 7­3 with a chance to improve on that mark tonight against Indiana at the Joyce Center. 
"I think that since we've been ranked that teams have been gunning for us in every game we play," junior guard Mollie Peirick observed. "Right now we need to get our composure back after the loss to Purdue and the Joss Monday night." 
Seniors Katryna Gaither and Beth Morgan have car­ried the load thus far but other Domers have recently gotten into the action. Sheila McMillen is coming off a career best performance of 20 points against the Badgers on Monday night. In addi· tion, Rosanne Bohman has gotten offensive minded as she had a career high of 17 against Providence over the weekend while Peirick added 18 of her own. 
The t·ecent losses have given the hoopsters an indi­cation that offense is nut where their main concerns lie. 
"The main thing we need to work on is defense," Peirick said. "That's what worked for us in the past games. especially Iowa. Our defense wins a lot of games for us and that is what we need to start focusing on again." 
"I think every loss is a learning process and we need to grow by it," Gaither assessed. "One aspect that needs to be improved is defense, and we need to con­trol the turnovers on the offensive side." 
The Irish have had a very busy itinerary as tonight's 
see WOMEN'S I page 26 
a) 
• Hockey signs recruits 

• see page 23 ••--= • Xavier dominating in victory 
January 5-7 ~ 
Diving
., 
at Hawaii, 
see page 18

Basketball at Olivet College, 
December 30 

December 10, 7 p.m. 
~ ~ 







