

Friday, November 22, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 59 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Report: Davie is new Irish head coach 
By TIM SHERMAN ly assumed that Northwestern 
See today's 

Sports Editor head coach Gary Barnett would 
. insert section

be named the new coach. Notre 
• 
·. for a special

The winds of change surround­Dame officials had contacted ing the now-vacant Notre Dame Barnett and it seemed the job look at coaching situation are swirling was his for the taking. The Holtz again. But it was never taken, and Years 
This time, they are swirling in quite possibly, never offered. Bob Davie, no
'-·~ {

the direction of current Irish "I am very humbled and flat-L=::;::=.:::::;::=:;;::::;::=====::=l stranger to the defensive coordinator Bob Davie. tered that Notre Dame has the timing of the process. Notre Dame 
sidelines, will

ESPN. who was the first major asked me to be a candidate for "Our search continues to go 
reportedly be

media outlet to break the story their head coaching football well," reported Athletic Director 
named as the

that Lou Holtz would be stepping position," Barnett said in a Mike Wadsworth. "Nothing has 
next head

down, reported last evening that released statement. "However, changed in the course of our 
coach of the 

Davie will likely soon be named for very personal and private search. We said we wanted to Fighting Irish. as the 28th coach in Notre Dame reasons, I have informed Notre make a decision by the first week Yesterday, history. Dame officials that I wish not be in December and we are on Northwestern 
Reporter Keith Olbermann considered as a candidate. course, if not making better coach Gary cited "sources close to the Notre Regardless of the rumors, an time." Barnett with­
drew his name

Dame program" who indicated offer was never extended to me Davie wasn't so concerned 
from considera­

that Notre Dame wants to make by Notre Dame. This is all I will about the timing as he is about 
tion for the 

a decision soon and that the say about the matter." the end result of the situation. 
vacancy left by

decision will be Davie. University administrators 
Lou Holtz's res­

.Just 24 hours ago, it was wide-offered little detail, other than see DAVIE/ page 6 
ignation. 

Friday Feature 
A loyal son marches on 
------------------~--~------------~ 

Joyce Center, North Dome 
ND Air Force ROTC Drill Team 
Joyce Center, North Dome 
Shenanigans Performance 
Joyce Center, North Dome 

Tensions surrounding frosh flyers ease 
By CAROLINE BLUM Courtney Reagan said. "He saw the all your guys. Come to the bonfire 
;t0:30-11a.fu, Glee Club-Notre Dame in Review

Saint Mary"s Editor sign before I did. He ripped it down at SMC and reclaim your men." 
Joyce Center, North Dome

and showed it to me. I knew it was Contrastingly, posters advertising in 11'11:20 p.m. Marching Band Concert It was only an oversight. Or at just a joke. but I'm not sure he did." male dorms read, "Get some," fol­Main Building (Step off at 11 :45) least that's how the freshmen class­But where or when students saw lowed by tiny lettering reading 12;10 p:m:. Marching Band Pre-game Show 
at the Stadium 

ns at Saint Mary's and Notre Dame the posters advertising a bonfire "smores, goodies, fun with the," and 
J2:30p.IJI, BEAT RUTGERS!

will remember it. sponsored by the freshmen classes then large font again, "SMC stu­NOTRE DAME STADIUM 
Saturday's band performance 
will cap a senior's return 
from losing a leg to cancer 
By RUSSELL WILLIAMS 
Assistant News Editor 
W
hen watching the Band of the Fighting Irish during this weekend's Rutgers game, pay special attention to the sax­ophone players. 
That is where you'll find Kurt Weiss, a senior from North Hills, Pa., who has displayed tremendous amounts of courage and tenacity in battling bone cancer. He later fulfilled his dream of marching with the Notre Dame band despite having a prosthetic right leg. 
As a freshman in high school in 1989, Weiss was diagnosed with osteogenic sarcoma, or bone cancer. He was a member of his football, basketball, and swimming teams. After physi­cal education class one day in May 1989, he noticed that his shins were aching. Displaying what he describes as the "jock mentality," he dealt with the pain for about one month until his mother finally forced him to seek medical treatment. 
lie sought treatment from Dr. Jack Failla, father of former Notre Dame football player and baseball standout Paul Failla, and was immediately referred to a specialist. Shortly thereafter. Weiss was diagnosed with bone cancer, and began chemotherapy treatment two days after the diagnosis. 
"The cancer was very well-progressed. By tlw time we found it, it had spread to my lungs," Weiss said, adding that doctors informed him he'd be lucky to live five more 
l years. 
1-------------------------­
see WEISS I page 10
L 
...Game of Century left lasting memories for Class of 1997 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
On Nov. 13, 1993, the Class of 1997, as fresh­men, watched what the media had billed as the "Game of the Century." Despite the three years passed since that contest against Florida State University, many students say no game has come close in intensity and excitement. 
see FSU I page 8 
Friday, November 22 ·J · Center for the Homeless Alumni Tours (C.H.A.T)Meet at the Main Circle Band Steps off lor Pep RallyBand Building PEP RALLY! JACC Arena, enter Gate 10 
.. Saturday, November 23 .9im:·12p.m, The Alumni Hospitality Center welcomes all Alumni and triends Joyce Center. North Dome

The Observer/Mike Ruma 
PomPon Squad (9:00) and Cheerleader (9:15)

Saturday's game will signal the conclusion of Kurt Weiss' marching 
Performances 

career, which has been marked by a prolific struggle with cancer. 
Notre Dame Bookstore PomPon Squad (9:40) and Cheerleader (9:50) Performances 


Some women noticed the signs at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, dents at the freshmen bonfire." 
..·~~-···$~.~-~@Y.t...N.~v..~.~-~~~--~:•t.....-·-·······-···-·-····--·1

posted in Notre Dame dorms as they most of the reactions were the Although the event initially Men's lnterhall Football walked out of church. Others saw same. Shock. caused some hurt feelings and ani­Notre Dame Stadium 
· Women's lnterhall Football

the flyers posted in their own The flyers posted in the Notre mosity among Saint Mary's and 
Notre Dame Stadium

dorms. while still others heard Dame female dorms, created by the Notre Dame women, freshmen class 
Women's Soccer vs. Wisconsin (2nd round NCAA)

about them by word of mouth. Notre Dame freshman class council, publicity chairperson Matt Alumni Field "My father was over at P.E. visit­read "Hey freshmen girls: fight Men's Basketball vs. Monmouth ing my cousin," Saint Mary's junior back. Don't let the SMC girls take see POSTERS/ page 6 Joyce Center 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, November 22, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


A lasting tlllpresston 
Don't get me wrong. 

I'm not a doctor. (Heck, MelanieWaters 
I'm an English major; I Assisranr Accent Editor 
have no hope of future 

employment.) However, I think that I can 
safely assess that a large majority of the 
senior class is suffering from a common dis­
ease: lastitis. 

Thn symptoms arc tragic and debilitating, 
most often marked by an uncontrollable 
desire to turn to one's friends and emit a 
pathetic wail to mark the passing of each 
"last" on the express path toward May 17. 
Allow me to elaborate. As we all know, 
tomorrow marks probably the most significant 
"last" in our college careers as we herd into 
Notre Dame Stadium for the very last time as 
undergrads. Lastitis, being excruciatingly con­
tagious, should run rampant from the 30 to 
the 50 yard line as we realize that one of our 
most beloved collegiate rituals is slipping 
away as each neon orange second ticks off the 
clock. 

Take caution. Once the reality sets in, lasti­
tis will take control of your life. 
Soon you'll find yourself sniffiing as you 
raise your arms as the third quarter clock 
turns to 15:00. Feel the same uncertainty 
about your future as Lou does? Then make 
sure we send him out with a Lou cheer so 
powerful that you whack the person in front 
of you on every downb1mt of the "1812 
Overture." Remember, we're his last ticket 
camp-out morning donut delivery senior class! 
Once you're done causing cranial damage to 
your neighbor, don't forget to partake of your 
last stadium hot dog in the last game in the 
old stadium. Need more lasts? llow about 
the last bratwurst of your undergraduate tail­
gating career, our last marshmallow fight, our 
last words of advice from Sgt. Tim McCarthy, 
and the last time the senior team members 
will raise their helmets to their friends, class­
mates and families in the stands. 
Of course, for those ambitious travelers who 
want to prolong the lastitis pain, you can 
always trek out to Southern California or the 
January 1 destination of choice, as long as it's 
somewhere warm. 

And it's only gonna get worse. Prepare yourself for your final stringing up of Christmas lights, your last pre-finals prayer at the Grotto on a cold, snow-covered December night, your last road trip, that last walk around the lake, your final helping of California Eldorado Casserole, and the ulti­mate knife in the heart-your last trip to the 'Backer, followed by lifetime flashbacks of "Oh What A Night" and "Copa Cabana". 
If you can "last" through the whole game tomorrow without getting even the slightest bit depressed, you've either had one too many pre-game refreshments or you're way more mentally stable than me, both of which are pretty viable options. At least show some sup­port for those of us too far gone with Jasti tis to mcover. And for God's sake, if you think you might be coming down with it, bring your own tissues. I'm not sharing. 
So as you throw your arms around your best friend's shoulders and start our final Alma Mater sway, make this "last" last. We'll always belong here, but the next five months and three weeks arc our claim to "owning" this campus. On Monday, you can be first in line to purchase your plaid pants. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 

News Derek Betcher Production Bridget O'Connor Tara Greishop Sean Smith Ann Goodwin Sports Brad Prendergast Joe Cavato Graphics Accent Brian Blank Dan Cichalski Lab Tech 
• WORLD AT A GLANCE 
Flu strikes in 15 states, expected to get worse in December 
pie who have not got-'--------------------------------' states reported flu 
ATlANTA Flu has struck in 15  Achoo! It's the flu  life-threatening ill­nesses. Outbreaks in  
states in the last two months and outbreaks  The flu has struck in 15 states since September, a typical start to the season.  at least four of the 15 states are blamed on  
are expected to get  Outbreaks are expected to get worse in December.  Wuhan.  
worse in December,  Flu contributes to  
the  Centers  for  the deaths of about  
Disease Control and  20,000 people a year  
Prevention  said  in the United States.  
Thursday.  The CDC recommends  
While the govern- vaccinations for peo­ 
ment doesn't have a  pie 65 and older, pen- 
count of victims yet,  pie in nursing homes,  
most of the outbreaks  children with asthma  
involved one person or  and  anyonn with  a  
just a few people, said  chronic illness.  
Nancy Ardent of the  The CDC relics on  
CDC's National Center  state health depart- 
for  Infectious  ments and physicians  
Diseases.  to help track flu eases  
"Even though it's past November, peo- D Notaffected  across the country.Last year, about 16  

ten their vaccines can and should," Ms. Arden said.The vaccine protects against both flu strains that have people feeling miserable this year-Type A-Wuhan and Type B. 
Wuhan can kill. If elderly people or the chronically ill get that strain, they are more likely to get pneumonia or other 
Watergate lawyers looking at payments 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
Whitewater prosecutors are looking 
,....,...,....,....,---, into payments to former Associ.ate Attorney General Webster Hubbell from an Indonesian family that helped bankroll the Democratic Party, accord­ing to people familiar with the matter. The prosecutors also are asking ques­tions about the firing of another key witness who testified against then-Arkansas Gov. Jim Guy Tucker and the Whitewater investment partners of President Clinton and his wife Hillary. Hubbell-who pleaded guilty to bilking his law firm clients in Arkansas -spent Tuesday morning before a federal grand jury testifying about money he has received from business interests of Mochtar Hiady. The Indonesian billionaire's business empire is at center of the controversy over foreign-linked contributions to the Democratic Party. Hubbell's grand jury appearance was followed Tuesday afternoon by Don Denton, who last spring testified against Tucker and Jim and Susan McDougal. 
Teen surrenders in baby's death 
WILMINGTON, Del. 
From the throng surrounding the 18-year-old college freshman, someone screamed "baby killer!" Brian Peterson Jr. did not flinch. The fresh-faced youth in the baseball cap looked dazed as he pushed through the swarm of reporters and onlookers Thursday to face charges he killed his girlfriend's newborn son. Peterson and his girlfriend, Amy Grossberg, could face the death penalty -a prospect that made his parents consider sending him abroad rather than turn him over to police. His mother, Barbara, sobbed uncontrollably, wrapping her arms around her son and burying her face in his shoulder as the family pushed its way toward FBI offices in Wilmington. Once inside, Peterson lost his composure and cried, but also com­forted his mother, telling her it would be all right, his attorney Joseph A. Hurley said. "How can I give my only boy to the state to die?" Peterson's mother told Hurley. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<!!>forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 22. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Friday Saturda)r Sunday) 
FRONTS:
Monda~ "T""'T'" ............_ ...,.ay-
COLD 
WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pmsaurs
Tues$iy H E1 (TI] IZi 8 i) ~ U
L &'Sl 0 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
outbreaks during this period. 
Outbreaks have occurred in Alaska, California, Colorado, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, Montana, New York, Ohio, North Carolina, Texas, Washington state and Wisconsin. 
CDC provides recipe for safe Thanksgiving 
ATLANTA 
Don't trust the tan on a turkey. Check the temperature instead. The Centers for Disease Control and Provention reiterated its annual warning on Thursday: Undereookod turkeys and raw eggs in the stuffing arc a recipe for food poisoning. A Thanksgiving feast in Nevada last year, for example, killed one person and made six others miser­able with diarrhea, cramps and nausea, the CDC said. The government now says it's OK to cook stulling inside the turkey, as long as cooks cheek it with a meat ther­mometer to make sure it reaches 165 degrees -hot enough to kill any bacteria from the turkey or from eggs used in the stuffing. And check the thigh too. It should be at least 180 degrees. Other turkey tips: Thaw the bird completely before cooking and set the oven to at least 325 degrees. Meat thermometers are a must. And otw more thing: both the bird and the giblets must be thawed in a refrigerator, not on a counter. Salmonella sickens 2 million to 4 million people each year and kills at least 
500. Between 1988 and 1992, tainted turkeys w1m~ responsible for 4 percent of those cases. Bad eggs caused 14 percent of them. 
Tapes show Nixon ordered break-in 
SAN FHANCISCO 
Hecently released audio tapes capture President Nixon ordering his top aide, a year before the Watergate bur­glary, to break into the Brookings Institution and steal thn liberal think tank's files on Vietnam, the San Francisco Examiner reported today. The newspaper quoted from audio tapes of a conversation between Nixon and White House Chief of Staff H.H. Haldeman, part of 201 hours of private tapes released this week by the National Archives. During a June 30, 1971, Oval Oflice conversation, Nixon asked llaldeman to take the institution's files relating to the Vietnam War, the Examiner said. According to a partial transcript provided by the newspaper. Nixon said. "The way I want that handled, Bob, is through another way. I want Brooking-just to break in. Break in and take it out! You understand?" Haldeman responded, "But who do we have to do it?" "Well, don't discuss it here. You talk to ... you're to break into the place, rille the files, and bring me," Nixon responded, according to the newspaper's transcript. 
~5,.,.-,y,--­

Viewpoint Shannon Dunne Ethan Hayward 

~~~qQ.~ (f ~ u
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
"'''' ... ,,, ··.·.·· ··:···=·· --­
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pf. Cloudy \Cloudy
~xccpr during exam :and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. Via Associated Press Graphics/Vet 
Anchorage  18  7  Denver  62  33  Miami  82  66  
Atlanta  57  38  Green Bay 34  23  New York  47  34  
Baltimore  47  32  Helena  15  0  St. Louis  46  37  
Boston  47  33  Honolulu  84  75  San Fran.  61  51  
Chicago  38  26  Kennebunk 44  29  Simsbury  50  36  

Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Multi-purpose ID card still in planning stages 
By HEATHER COCKS 
A<.<ociate News Editor 
Notre Dame may radically change its ID card system in future semesters. 
Though nothing concrete has been established, a special com­mittee has undertaken the spe­cific task of devising an "all-cam­pus card," a concept which could open up numerous possibilities for Notre Dame students. 
The ultimatP ideal is to develop a card which serves not just as a student ID, but as a detex, meal card. and a debit card of sorts. 
"Nothing is clear yet." Dave l'rentkowski. director of Food Services, said. "A lot of it depends on finding a company that provides a system which is integratable with the existing campus system." 
Fellow committee member and assistant registrar Pam Johnson said, "Right now. we're sifting through proposals from various companies, but we haven't found the perfect one." 
Prentkowski said that, to an as-yet undetermined degree, The Huddle would begin accepting the revamped ID cards, using a special account system. Arguably the most relevant change for stu­dents, it would allow them to buy snacks at the convenience store or food from the fast-food bars. 
"Basically, we want to increase the flexibility of the entire meal plan," he said. "Feedback indi­cates that people want the option of using their cards at other times, not just the three standard meal times." 
Prentkowski stressed his desire to make the dining halls as easy and accessible as The Huddle, citing the addition of "Grab-n-Go" as a successful step in that direction. "People can eat from the dining halls during the "oil' hours" if they can't make it there at the usual time," he said. 
Ilis biggest concern was the limited seating capacity of LaFortune. With the influx of diners that the new card would inevitably provide, Prentkowski envisions LaFortune as being "a nightmare." 
"I wouldn't want to encourage all undergraduates to flock to LaFortune just because they can use the system there," he said. "It's just not designed for the vol­ume of people." 
DO YOU WANT SOME GOOD EXPERIENCE WORKING FOR 
THE OBSERVER 
Join the Saint Mary's Observer Staff 
Open editorial positions in news and sports. Bring applications to 314 LaFortune 
call Caroline Blum @


FUN!! 
631-4540 with questions 
J 



Renovation stays on track 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
On Saturday, ten scaled-down weeks of stadium renovation will come to an end along with the home football season. Full paced construction will resume the following Monday with the goal of finishing the new Notre Dame Stadium before the 1997 season opener. 
Although progress slowed to accommodate Saturday crowds, construction supervisors noted that not only was their fall pro­ductive, but the stage has been set for winter work that will bring the renovation to comple­tion. 
"It's kind of obvious, just walking around the stadium, that there have been a lot of things coming together," Director of Facilities Engineering Mike Smith said. 
Reassuringly, things have been coming together on sched­ule and on budget. Fall con­struction, punctuated by six football games, had the benefit of cooperative weather. Finishing the precast shell, bricking the exterior, and erect­ing the steel supports for the new press box have been the most visible improvements reflecting Mother Nature's tem­perance. 
More than being grateful for physical progress, officials were pleased with the lack of trouble they had in accommodating the 1996 football season. 
"It's gone real well with the crowds and crowd control dur­ing the games. Everyone has been great respecting the con­struction zones, so the transi­tions have gone pretty well," Project Manager Jeff Cerney explained. 
"This fall, the most satisfying thing is that we've been able to have the football season go on without a hitch," Smith agreed. 
With structural work almost 


F proJects Casteel Construction plans to tackle this winter. 
entirely complete, Casteel  mechanical work, like installing  
Construction and its subcontrac­ ducts and plumbing, and electri­ 
tors are finishing up on exterior  cal work.  
masonry work before weather  "That's going great guns right  
forces them inside for the win­ now," Wyant remarked.  
ter. Mortar and concrete cannot  Demolition work, centering  
be set in freezing temperatures,  around the old scoreboards  
so following Saturday's game  original parapet, and interio;  
Casteel plans on enclosing por­ concourse floors will represent  
tions of the concourse and  the greatest pick up in activity,  
installing portable heaters to  though.  
continue working.  Finally, Wyant anticipates  
"We're going to close off sec- major strides in renovation  
tions of the existing walls and  work, where portions of the  
heat it up to about 40 degrees  original stadium are razed and  
just to knock the chill out of the  replaced. As an example, he  
air," Cerney said.  told of plans to remove existing  
Months of plumbing, electri­ concourse floor concrete and  
cal, and finishing work remain  asphalt so that foundation and  
for the dozens of new restrooms  plumbing work can proceed  
and concession areas waiting to  unimpeded.  
be installed. Removal of the old  Currently Casteel has 175  
press box -slated for early  workers on site, and 30 to 35  
December -and completion of  more are expected in coming  
the new three-story structure  weeks to help handle the  
are also major steps to be  expanded operations.  
taken.  "There's just a lot of people  
"We've just been waiting for  pushing in the same direction,"  
the last game," Fred Wyant,  Smith noted.  
project superintendent said.  The stadium expansion pro­ 
Wyant highlighted four distinct  ject is expected to be finished  
areas where work will be done  for next season's Sept. 6 home  
in coming weeks. First, he cited  opener against Georgia Tech.  

Full Service De~artment Free Pick Up &Delivery 
Now Open... Formerly Asia House Restaurant 
Thai House 
Restaurant 

Specializing in Authentic Thai Cuisine Come in and try our exotic and spicy Thai food Dine in or Carry Out (219) 257,4875 
15% Discount when you bring in this ad! 
._...~ _,_q}'-C"l 
Our Business Hours 

Our Location ~'!} {...~-~ 
Tues-Thurs: 11AM-9PM 

r---. LJ LJ [ 
Fri -Sat: llAM-lOPM Sun: 11AM-8PM 
508 W. Mckinley, Mishawaka, IN 


page4________________________________~T~h~e~O~b=se=r~ve~r_·~P~~=I=D~A=D~VE~=R~T~I=S~E=~~E=N~T____________________F_r_id_a~»_N_o_ve_m_b_e_r_l5~,_I_99__6 
South Bend~s Finest... 


------~-~~---­
....---------~-~ ~----
Fridav. November 1). 1996 Thp nhoPrvPr • PATn .1\DVERTISEMENT page 5 
$599 Homemade Soups & Breads 
Appetizers • Salads • Sandwiches and PASTA Five nlinutes fron1 carnpus! Downtown Location -2 14 N. Niles Avenue 280-4824 
After the game... After work ... 

After all .. 
Pastries •
It's 
:-Gourmet F 
~-. .....~·.: 

Two Post-Game Celebration Locations: Granger: 66 J5 N. Main Street 273-0Q03 Elkhort: 324J Interchange Drive 266-J J 29 
Go Irish ... ... destroy Rutgers! 
Visit our brand new location ... 
Trivia • 7ft TV Screens • Seating for Over 300 Extra Large Booths • Mouth-Watering Variety of Sandwiches and Entrees 
page 6 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 22, 1996 



Posters 
continued from page 1 
Wohlberg's public apology in the Nov. 20 issue of The Obsnrver cased the situation. 
In the apology, Wohlberg stated, "We thought we had dcsignnd a humorous and attnnlion-grabbing llynr design that would create interest in tlw bonfire... We not only failed ... at this attempt, hut potentially crt~ated an intimi­dating nnvimnment while set-

ling back gender relations at 
Notre Dame." 
The administration and stu­dent body at Saint Mary's have accepted this apology, and view Wahlberg's gesture as whole-hearted and sincere. 
"I think that the article pub­lished in The Observer cleared up any malice caused by the situation," director of student activities at Saint Mary's Georgeanna Rosenbush said. "The students them­selves took the initiative to amend the situation, not me. The article displayed a great apology and was sincere. I think that it was a big step in improving relations between freshmen, which will provoke better relations as seniors." 
Despite the controversy, the bonfire took place at Saint Mary's as scheduled Thursday night, attracting several stu­dents from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame. 
"The bonfire was wonder­ful," Saint Mary's freshman class president Beth Beatty said. "We had a great turnout, and a lot of Notre Dame stu­dents-male and female-showed up." 

Beatty also added that she thought students had calmed down about the issue, and both campuses accepted and appreciated Wahlberg's apolo­gy. 
So now that the conflict has been resolved, students are left with only one question ­how did the flyers get approval from Student Activities at Notre Dame in the first place? 
Carol Taylor, who works in the Student Activities office, approved the flyers. She explained that 20-30 students enter her office daily request­ing approval for posters, and receive approval provided that "their request dons not go against duLac." 
Taylor remembered when the student came to her requesting approval for tlw bonfire posters, but "did not really have a reaction to it." 
In defense of tho offiee. Hosenbush explained. "The off'iee gets ealls all the time. I'm sure they do thnir best to monitor every poster that comes in, but it's diffkult." 


You could earn: 

$3000 after your first plasma donation! 
$1 500 if you donate alone (first visit) 
+ 
$500 if you show college I. D. (first visit) 

+ 
$1 QOO per person if you recruit someone and they donate 


$3000 TOTAL! 

HE • ~tfflS SAVE ; VES
~ -/ ~ ~. 
Must be l 8 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 

Come to: Hours: AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL M-F: 9:00 -6:00 515 Lincolnway West SAT: 8:00-5:00 South Bend, IN 46601-1117 234-6010 

Clocl~tower 

Billiards and Cafe 

Davie 
continued from page 1 
"The right decision will be made because I have the utmost conlidenee in the people mak­ing tlw decision," Davie stated. "Fans shouldn't worry about llw timing. The bottom line is that tlwy (University ofTicials) makt) the right decision." 
If Davie is, in fact, the deci­sion. his current players will be satisfied. 

"I have a lot of respect for Coach Davie," senior linebacker Bert Berry said. "lie will defi­nitely make a great coach because he has a grnat working relationship with the people who play for him." 
Berry thinks he'll also have a great relationship with the peo­ple he works for. 
"lie will make a great repre­sentative of the University," 
Berry said. "He may not have the quick jokes like Coach Holtz but he is morally upstanding. llis track record speaks for itself." 
That record included a role as Holtz's defensive coordinator since 1994 and a similar stint before that at Texas A&M. 
"He has coached under some great coaches and has good e~perience," Berry added. 

~llllHirbraJ!! f rJtrtrrmt~ ~rllllm 





mMnoo•1nom~• 
VISIT OUR PRO SHOP IN THE ROCKNE MEMORIAL SATELLITE SHOP IN THE JOYCE CENTER OPEN 
HOME FOOTBALL FRI'S & SAT'S Ashworth -Nike -Gear -Cutter & Buck -Izod 


Shop hours from 8:00am-5:00pm 7days Home Football Fridays_opettll!Jtil5:_3_0pm 
Open during game time 
Themed Laser Games 

MICHIANA'SNEWEST lASE ENTERTAINME 
GREAT FuM Foa 
243-8163 
PM 
2022 South Bend Ave. 
12 PM-11 PM 
Next door to Coach's Sports Bar 

--------------------------------------------------~------------------------~------------­
Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
ND expands licensing 
•MuLTicunuRAlBEAT 

to new item: Ice cream OMSA seeks unified voice 
By BILL UNIOWSKI 
News Writer 
In addition to sweatshirts, T -shirts, hats and jackets, add officially licensed Notre Dame ice cream to your bookstore shop­ping list. 
Ice cream? 
Bonnie Doon Ice Cream, head­quartered in Elkhart, has released four new Notre Dame ice cream flavors that are avail­able in collectable plastic con­tainers. Golden Dome Vanilla, Football Fudge Crunch, Double Domer Double Chocolate and Leprechaun Lemon Cheesecake are available in pint containers at the Huddle and the bookstore for $2.99. 
"When we bought the company, I was observing how many differ­ent and unusual flavors of ice cream the companies were com­ing out with," said President John Cohoat, a 1976 Notre Dame grad­uate. "I thought it would be neat to try Notre Dame ice cream." 
In order to become an officially licensed product of the University, Bonnie Doon had to go through committees that 

The Observer/Brei Hogan Tanya Lenko can't get enough Double Domer ice cream. 
approved the concepts. Following the initial committees, the company had to submit fla­vors and packaging, as well as pass strict quality standards. 
The product has experienced moderate success thus far. 
"It sold really well, then fell off a little after a couple of losses," Cohoat said, alluding to the Ohio State and Air Force football loss­es. "It does better at different times." 



By ALLISON KOENIG News Wrirer 
Ethnic progression and unifi­cation were the main subjects of discussion during the Notre Dame Coalition Counsel's Thursday meeting. 
Office of Multicultural Student Affairs (OMSA) Director Iris Outlaw reported that the black student retention rate is only 7 4 percent annually, compared to 98 percent for white students. Similar statistics on the reten­tion rates of Hispanic or Asian students are not yet available. 

Outlaw, in collaboration with a number of faculty and staff The Observer/Michelle Sweet members, is currently working Members of the Coalition Council discussed black students' retention on a pilot program with fifty­rates, among other topics at yesterday's meeting. 
eight African American fresh­percentage. Ethnic Organizations (CEO). men. Labeled the OMSA Outlaw has also been busy set-Gonzalez also encouraged the Scholarship Program, it is ting up formats to help students group to make use of campusdesigned to support black stu­of color in assessments of inter-publications as media forums to dents in their pursuit of a nal barriers, how to be assertive promote the message of the degree. in the classroom and interaction group. The floor was then 
Outlaw hopes that the volun­within the residence halls. There opened up for discussion. tary program will not only give are also plans for a reception for Graciela Cruz began bythe Office of Multicultural those freshman who make speaking about her wish for Student Affairs some insight Dean's List this semester. more unification within the into why the retention rate of Jose Gonzalez, assistant counsel. "There needs to be black students is substantially director of OMSA, then dis-more personal interaction lower than that of whites, but cussed the potential of renam-(within the group) if we wish to might also assist in raising that ing the counsel to the Council of make a difference," said Cruz. 
Gonzalez suggested a gather­
ing of the counsel for social 
purposes alone, to better facili­
tate that kind of communica­
: <t9i0\<!3o<\Q/t'eJ : 

tion. "I believe you have the 
• 
IRISH IMPORT SHOP • power to make an impact, to have a voice," he said. "What 

• 
16!3diE~i~:~aR~ad • can we do to help that?" "There needs to be an ethnic


• Next to Jamison Inn • 

voice, one that isn't divided, at
other campus meetings, like
• 
I 0 o/o off any purchase • Hall President's Council or 

• 
with this ad • Student Senate," suggested John Fernandez. 


The Univeristy of Notre Dame Folk Choir invites you to an evening Concert of Sacred Music to benefit the work of Holy Cross Missions and their apostolate throughout the world. Come to the Basilica of the Sacred Heart! Come ready to sing! Bring your parents to experience some of the tradition of song and celebration here at Notre Dame! Saturday, November 23rd, 7:30pm A free will offering will be taken up during the concert to benefit Holy Cross Missions.  

~ --------------~----~ -------~ ­
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


By ANNE HOSINSKI 
News Writer 
This week, the students of North Side Elementary School in Mishawaka were treated with a few guest speakers-Notre Dame student athletes. The ath­letes voluntnered their time to read stories to students in kindergarten through sixth grade, and speak about what it means to be a student athlete at Notre Dame. 
The North Side School Read Week program ran this week in conjunction with National Head Week in schools throughout the country. Sponsored by the Athletic Department's Life Skills program, approximately 40 stu­dent athletes and coaches got a chance to make a difference in the lives of the children at North Side. The Life Skills program helps student athletes develop a balance between academics, athletics and community service. 
According to Judy Harper, an administrator at North Side, the students were delighted with the athletes. "The children got so excited to meet the athletes," says Harper, "that they went crazy with autographs." Harper also noted that many of the kindergartners got a treat when members of the Icc !Iockey team Friday, November 22, 1996 

was no Florida State. Ever sinee BC though, we have never been invincible like we were that day against FSU. Ninety­three was a perfect season and every other season... we were always playing catch-up." 
"Our class didn't have any star players," Fleming said. "The hype about Hon Powlus, who was a passing quaterback in an option-oriented offense, brought the team down because he wasn't as good as everyone said he was going to be." 
This year's seniors are the last class who was present when the football team serious­ly approached winning a national championship. They also exit at the same time as Lou Holtz, who announeed his resignation on Tuesday after 11 years with Notre Dame. 
"[Tommorrow's Hutgers game] is going to be a special game, very emotional," said Joss. "I feel almost bad for the underclassmen. Lou was an institution when we got here, he was part of the school. The football games are going to be weird without him 1wxt year, with a new coach. But Notre~ Dame football is bigger than any one coach, any one player. It will move on and it will thrive." 
stayed for recess and "had a good time playing on the mon­key bars" with the children. 
Frances Shavers, director of the Life Skills program, stressed that the athletes did more than just read to the students. They gave them insight on the entire college experience, not only ath­letics. They also spoke about the importance of reading, studying, and the benefits of staying in school. According to Shavers, this is only one of the few programs through the Life Skills program that touches the lives of children in the Michiana area. 
Carla Fornelos, a member of the Women's Lacrosse team, commented that the entire expe­rience was a great time and that she would love to do it again. Fornelos read to sixth graders, and then gave them a lesson on the sport of Lacrosse, including drawing a diagram of the sport on the chalk board. 
Chrissy Holmberg , a varsity swimmer, remarked that the fourth and fifth graders that she spoke to were especially respon­sive to her message. ' 
"The girls in particular," remarked Holmberg, "were responsive to the fact that I was a female athlete. It gave them more to relate to." 
FSU 
continued from page 1 
"We have seen glimpses of the sort of intensity displayed, but never for an entire game," said Matt Joss, a senior in Keenan Hall. 
The last second had already ticked off the game clock when Charlie Ward, whose team trailed Notre Dame by a score of 31 to 24, threw a pass from the 14 yard-line to the end zone. The pass would have tied or won the game for FSU, had Notre Dame backup cornerback Shawn Wooden not jumped in the way. 
The crowd erupted. 
"I remember being in the aisle for that game and rushing down on the field," said Callie Teegardin, a senior from Farley Hall. 
''I'm just glad I didn't get trampled," recalled Abigail Fleming, a Saint Mary's senior who lives off campus. "On the field, people were going nuts, trying to tear down the goal­posts and jumping around." 
"I was screaming so loud that I was about to pass out," said Joss. "Then we were down on the field, basking in the win." Fans who swarmed the field left through the tunnel singing "We're number one" to part of the tune "Call me AI" by Paul Simon. 
Attracting more national attention then any game that year, the nation seemed to con­verge on South Bend that November. Figures estimated that hundreds of thousands journeyed to campus just to be near the game. ESPN broad­cast their "Gameday" show from the Joyee Center, and every network was using the phrase "Game of the Century" to describe the contest. 

"The pregame hype was phe­nomenal," Teegardin offered. "I have never seen a eampus so excited." 
"It felt like we were going to win from the get-go," Joss said. "You could sense it in the air, and I think the players felt it too. It still gives me chills to remember." 
Wooden's deflection ended the game and catapualted Notre Dame to the number one spot in the Associated Press polls. The football team lost that ranking the next week by losing to Boston College and has never regained the top position. 
"The fans overlooked BC, we all thought that we were head­ed for a rematch in Phoenix," said Teegardin. "While it wasn't the end of the world, it was very disappointing. I was shocked to see the big "1" on top of Grace Hall go out." 
"No one took the BC game seriously," said Joss. "It was seen as a pushover game -it 
~ 
~~ 
)--~=rfb
' /~)~'
__/""-----....
--).
k ( k;;;;,~--~
... 

Notre Dame Concert Band Auditions 
m~..=:;,t~n::-.."~~-~~?~~1t~':' ,,., '~ 
roecember 2, 3, 4 
,(;: v< ,._'~ '>~~ + ~t~ 
Call 631-7136 or 631-5054 
We have started to talie applications for next year. 


• 
Furnished apartments 

• 
Swimming pool 


Apartments

•Jacuzzi 
•Tennis, volleyball, & 
available for

basketball courts 
your selection.

• 
24 hour laundry 

• 
Shuttle bus 


For more information

• Professional management 
call272-l44l 

Stop by the Band Building for Audition Music 

~--------­
Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

O'Laughlin to host choir festival 
Special to The Observer 
The Saint Mary's College Women's Choir will host the 12th Annual High School Womert•s Choir Festival today, in the O'Laughlin Auditorium of tile 
Moreau Center for the Arts. Choirs from 20 high .schools will participate. 
Each participating choir will porform three to four pieces, 
Lunch will be provided for all the participants by the Saint Mary's College department of music. 
Also included in the day's events are a campus tour and a performance by Saint Mary's College Women's Choir. 
For further information on par~ ticipation or observation, please contact Dr. Nancy Menk, chair, department of music; Saint Mary's College at (219).284-463?, 
• 
Urban Outfitters 

• 
Vintage Levi's 

• 
Big Sweaters 

• 
Hip Huggers 

• 
Unique Cocktail Dresses 



• Silver Rings -Hemp Jewelry 
We Buy 
Now Open
HOURS: 
Sundays
M-F: 10-7

Used 
10%0 
12-4p.m.

with student ID
Levi's 
THE 
smE 
CO.~ INC. 



tlpartments 
• 
Also accepting inquiries/applications for the next academic year (1997-98) 

• 
A SWIMMING POOL, INDOOR AND OUTDOOR TENNIS COURTS, RACQUETBALL COURTS, SAUNAS, WHIRLPOOL, FITNESS CENTER, EVEN 


BASKETBALL AND BEACH VOLLEYBALL COURTS ARE YOURS TO ENJOY AS A RESIDENT OF CASTLE POINT 
• FULL PRIVILEGES FOR USE OF THE CASTLE PoiNT RACQUET CLUB 
Just 2.5 mi North of IN state line 
1912 S. 11th, Niles Belle Plaza 
687-9123 ·-~ Iii Oi!) ~ 

Olmos shares struggles and success 
ByBERNADETTEPAMPUCH 
News Writer 
For the hundreds of teenagers sitting spellbound in the auditorium of Washington High School Wednesday, the man on stage represented more than the Hollywood dream with which . most stars have come to be associated. 
''I'm not naturally gifted, I'm not naturally talented, I'm not smart and I'm not good looking," he claimed, speak­ing out over a crowd of stu­dents, parents and teachers. "And I make $2 million a pic­ture. Now how does that work out?" 
While the audience erupted in laughter, they also grasped his message. The man speak­ing was famed Latino actor and dedicated humanitarian Edward James Olmos, who knows all too well the hard work and determination it took to make his career and life as successful as they have been. 
He attributed it to his call to share his message with others. "I get more out of this than· the students do," he insisted, and stressed how important it was to give back to the community. 
Olmos' message reflects his own life. He began giving free motivational speeches in high schools, immigrant camps, Indian reservations, and prisons in 1972 at the bequest of a teacher. A struggling actor at the time, he balked at the idea of talking to students about a life in the arts. 
"I said, 'I'm struggling,' and she said, 'That's what I want, somebody that's in the strug­gle."' That struggle gave rise to a prolific career: a Tony nomina­tion for his performance in the Broadway musical Zoot Suit, an Emmy award for his work in Miami Vice and an Oscar nomi­nation for his performance in Stand and Deliver. He is proud of the 18 years he spent research­ing violence and the penal sys­tem for the movie American Me, but does not overlook the toil. 
"I went into an acting class in my first year of college, not because I wanted to be an actor, but because I wanted to get rid of this problem of reading aloud," he said, revealing a his­tory of dyslexia that often made it hard to speak in front of a class. · 
The acting class paid off; he just finished filming his role as father of slain Tejano superstar Selena in the soon-to-be­released film based on her life and is currently at work on Rain of Gold, a project that promises to be the first-ever Latino­themed mini-series to debut on network television. 
But it is Olmos' social work that seems to matter most. Soft­spoken in person, dynamic on stage, he yells, pantomimes, 

In Preparation"'for the May 1997 CPA Exam 
The BeckerDPAReview Course
;::::;t ...:· :::~f#~t1:10~fJj:t=i:iiiJIII~:!r:·: ====:=j_,;:.,==: :::. ==~=:=:=:=~=-:&w=::-:,: 

Cordially Invites Yduto ur Special Early Class 
Science 6:00p.m.-
9:~5 p.m. 

First 5 classes Free Pre-Registration Discount to Those Attending Raffle for $250.00 toward tuition Bring a Friend! 
whistles and holds the audience captive but never fails to men­tion the importance of giving back what he counts himself blessed with. As an ambassador for UNICEF, Olmos has worked as an election supervisor in Poland, Bosnia and South Africa. He has spent hours speaking to audiences across the country, and just this summer traveled to Chiapas, Mexico on a mission to bring food to some of the poorest of the poor. 
Upon seeing the plight of the indigenous Mayan Indians dur­ing a 1994 visit to Chiapas, Olmos began a project to deliver staple foods like corn, salt and beans to the area. 
It is not just the indigenous of Mexico that appreciate his effort, but members of the South Bend community as well. Speaking at Washington High School and Notre Dame, he was swarmed by community leaders, grand­mothers and children looking for autographs and the chance to be photographed with him. At a stop at El Taco Tipico during the afternoon, the newest Mexican restaurant to open in the bur­geoning Hispanic community on the west side, Olmos acknowl­edged the sense of Latino com­munity over tortillas and cafe con leche. He talked with area leaders of the League of United Latin American Citizens in the area with the owner's seven­month-old granddaughter bal­anced on his knee, stopping for more photographs and signing menus. 

Ironically, during his speech at Notre Dame Wednesday night the actor used a phrase to describe his admiration for Mexican-American civil rights activist Cesar Chavez that suits him just as well: 
"A saint is a person who has the courage to give and not ask anything in return." Modestly and unassumingly, Olmos has become the kind of person that doesjustthat. 

Loca~don~ewrner~honwoodandCkve~ndi~~A~n_y_f_u_rt_h_e_r_q_u_e_s_t_i_o·_n~sp~l_e.as~e~c_a_l_l_2_7_7_-4_3_~66~~~~~ Call the sales office for more information: 272-8110 

~-­

page 10 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 22, 1996 
other place in the world year consuming anti-biotics to Weiss beat the odds and saw him march, and was just wanted to go." fight the infections in his right returned to march with the one of the many positive
Weiss 
Once Weiss realized that his leg. Despite the difficulty and band this year for the first time aspects of the football season 
continued from page 1 
"It was very trying emotion­ally, spiritually. and physical­ly," he said of the initial stages of his fight with the cancer. "But, my family is wonderful and helped a lot." 
Weiss went through chemotherapy for over a year, but, the bone cancer had left his right leg severely damaged and it required drastic medical attention. 
In 1989, Weiss underwent his first operation, a procedure called an allograft, to repair damage to his right leg. 
"We tried like hell to make it work," said Weiss, referring to the surgical procedures. 
By the time treatment ran its course, Weiss had undergone nine operations, the last of which being the amputation of his leg. Doctors inserted metal plates and screws to strength­en the leg in some of the oper­ations. 
Weiss had given serious thought to attending Notre Dame since long before his battle with cancer. His older sister. Gretchen, is a 1988 graduate and a former mem­ber of the band, and it was during her tenure at Notre Dame that Weiss first visited the campus. 
"I was hooked on Notre Dame after the first couple of football games," said Weiss. "I didn't think there was any hopes of continuing on with sports participation was over, he decided to focus on other interests, particularly the sax­ophone. In 1990, the Make-A­Wish Foundation of Western Pennsylvania contacted Weiss, and he expressed his desire to have a new tenor saxophone and to play with the Band Of the Fighting Irish. The organi­zation fulfilled his wish, and as a high school sophomore Weiss played with the Notre Dame band in the 1990 Orange Bowl. 
Despite a serious infection in his leg. Weiss enrolled at Notre Dame in the fall of 1992. He ran into more problems in October and was forced to withdraw for medical reasons. 
"My knee basically collapsed in mid-October of 1992," said Weiss, and he left school November 1 to go home and have more surgery and reha­bilitation. 
Weiss returned in the fall of 1993 and remained at Notre Dame for the rest of that acad­emic year. Weiss spent most of the summer of 1994 under­going surgical procedures and rehabilitating. 
In 1994, Weiss had his first opportunity to fulfill his dream of actually marching with the band as a Notre Dame student, during the Navy game. Weiss marched in the following two games, including the USC game and the Fiesta Bowl game against Colorado. 
Weiss returned for the 1995 pain, Weiss marched with the band the entire football sea­son. "I wanted to fulfill my duties as the president of the University Band, so I decided to march that year and put off more surgery," said Weiss. 
The Alumni Hall resident was informed during the sum­mer of 1995 that there was far too much damage to the leg· and it required amputation. "The doctors told me that if I don't get it amputated, I could be in danger," Weiss said. "Until I had no other options, I wanted to keep the leg." 
Ironically, Weiss marched in the Orange Bowl in 1996, the same place where he fulfilled his wish as a sophomore in high school. Following the game, Weiss went horne and had surgery on Jan. 16 yet again to undergo amputation of the leg, and took off all of the Spring semester of 1996 to recover and adjust to life with a prosthetic limb. 
"I went through a ridiculous amount of rehabilitation," said Weiss, describing the adjust­ment and rehabilitation period spent at Harmarville Rehabilitation Center. 
Weiss set the lofty goal of returning to march with the band for the 1996 season. "Nobody thought I could do it (march) again," said Weiss. "The therapists didn't encour­age me at first. But they helped me to learn how to march, jog, and ride a bike." 

since his right leg was amputat­ed. "I carne back to summer band not knowing what to expect," said Weiss, referring to marching with a prosthesis. "I underestimated how quickly I had to move around." 
"I had to give everything and work as hard as I could," remarked Weiss. "I wasn't going to go back to Notre Dame and not march." 
The Pittsburgh game was a special one for Weiss because all of his therapists from the Harrnaville Rehabilitation Center came to the game and for Weiss. "It was rough at first, but after I made adjust­ments on my leg, it has just gotten better and better every time." 
The Rutgers game marks the end of the playing careers for senior members of the football team and the band. h also marks the final chapter in the uplifting story about Weiss, who has undergone nine surgeries. 
Weiss is a pre-med major and hopes to attend medical school at Johns Hopkins, Rochester, or Pittsburgh next year. 
Go Irish! Beat Rutgers! 

Make a Difference With ... OCCUPATIONAL lH~ERAPV 
Improve Your Patients' Quality ofLife 
Occupational therapy is a 90-year-old health care profession concerned with the use of purposeful physical and mental activities for individuals who are challenged by physical and/or psychosocial disabilities, develop­mental or learning disabilities, poverty or cultural differences, or the aging process. Occupational therapists work with these patients to maxi­mize independence, improve quality of life, minimize disability, and 
maintain health. 
join a Rapidly G7'0wing Profession 
According to U.S. Department of Labor statistics, occupational therapy is among the fastest growing health care professions, with rhe number of available positions totaling 55,000 nationally with an expected increase in new positions approaching 60% by the year 2000. 
Study With the Health Care Team at Midwestern University 
Midwestern University's College of Allied Health Professions offers a 30­month, entry-level program in occupational therapy leading to a Master of Occupational Therapy degree. The program includes classroom learn­ing and 23 weeks of full-time clinical experience.You will work closely wirh students in the College's Physical Therapy program as part of our interdisciplinary approach to therapy education. The University, which is located in Downers Grove, Illinois (a western suburb of Chicago) also administers colleges of osteopathic medicine and pharmacy. 
Learn more about a career in occupational therapy at Midwestern University by returning the form or calling 630-515-6188. 
r-----------------;----~-­

MIDWESTERN UNIVERSITY OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY PROGRAM 
Please send me the following information (Check all that apply): 0 OT Program Catalog 0 OT Program Brochure 0 Admission Application 
Name 
Address 
City/State/Zip Undergraduate/Graduate College 
Projected Enrollment Date 
Phone 

Return to Office ofAdmissions, Midwestern University, 555 31st St., Downers Gr«m::, IL 60515 
..----~-------------~--~----~------~~ --~ ---~--~----~-~-----~-----~-~---------------, 
Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 11 
Student-run course generates excitement at SMC 
By ANGELA CATALDO 
News Writer 
A new, student-run course being offered at Saint Mary's next semester is causing a lot of excitement. 
"Sister Madeleva Wolff. CSC: Catalyst for Contemporary Women's Issues," is the first class in Saint Mary's history to be initiated and led solely by students. Under the direction of Dr. Gail Mandell. the course will be taught by humanistic studies majors Abby Johnson, Janet Kelley and Ashley Ratcliffe. 
Madeleva was the College's president from 1934 through 1961 and was a visionary in women's education. She was responsible for making Saint Mary's one of the first residen­tial institutions to be racially integrated. Also, at a time when only priests could receive a graduate degree in theology, she initiated a graduate theolo­gy program for women at Saint Mary's. Madeleva not only challenged the integrity of the institution, but also changed the physical shape of the col­lege. "She was responsible for the creation of the gardens and a great supporter of the build­ing of Moreau." added Kelley. 
Inspired by a lecture given by Mandell on Madeleva's life, 

If you see news haPPenins~ Please call The Observer at 1-5323. 

Within walking distance ofND Campus! No appointment ever needed! 
Ho10e 
Game 
S <'~l~~iats 
·w'-®:'' 
Must present coupon Expires 12/21/96 
one per customer 
Johnson, Kelley and Ratcliffe began discussing the possibili­ties of a class. "We found her life to be so exciting that it seemed natural that there be a class," said Kelley. 
The students will have the class discuss the College in light of current women's issues and how they relate to Madeleva's vision of the College. Mandell is proud of the students' work: "They are reclaiming her vision and interpreting it for a later generation, and by being visionaries themselves, they are continuing the tradition." 
Johnson, Kelly, Ratcliffe and Mandell all feel that it is impor­tant that the students of Saint Mary's take this course. "For most people she (Madeleva) is just a building," said Mandell referring to the classroom building that bears Madeleva's name, "and that is sad." What they hope is that by taking this course, students will realize the rich history from which their school stems and appreciate 


• • 

trivia games

c.9 
Welcome Notre Dame Parents! 
Catch a great time at Damon's Clubhouse before, during, or after the game. 
2t't'-1166 
·Award-winning ·Prime Rib ·Salads barbecued ribs 

0 
·Steaks · Sandwiches ·Non-stop sports ·Seafood ·Kid'sMenu
& entertainment onourgiant ·Chicken ·CarryOut video screens 
·Interactive 

the environment in which they live, the education they receive and how the values expressed at the institution were shaped. "We've inherited that tradition (Madeleva's) and don't know what we've got," stated Mandell. Kelley agrees: "It is important to know where we come from in order to know where we are going. By under­standing our history we can then strengthen our identity as a Catholic women's college ... and this will benefit everyone in the community." 
The class is entirely experi­mental with all research being done by Johnson, Kelley and Ratcliffe as an independent study. Kelley believes that this in itself is an example of how Madeleva's presence is alive today. "The school has been extremely supportive of this experimental project. It just goes to show the power and the flexibility of an institution like Saint Mary's. It is wonderful that we have been given this responsibility and received so much encouragement. I can't imagine finding it anywhere else." 
Jingle All the Way PG (in DTSJ 
12:00 2:15 4:45 7:15 9:40 
Space Jam PG 
11:30 12:30 1:30 2:30 3:30 4:30 5:30 6:45 7:30 8:45 9:30 
Ghost & The Darkness R 
2:30* 5:00 7:45 10:00 
1:30* 4:30 7:30 10:10 
*Saturday & Sunday only 

As a guide, the students are using one of Mandell's pub­lished lectures to lead the class. The lecture on Madeleva's life and work titled, "One Woman's Life," was one part in a series of lectures sponsored by the Center for Spirituality. Also being used as a reference, a manuscript of Madeleva: A Biography, by Mandell which is in print now and will be avail­able in soft cover and hard back in the late spring. 
Mandell dreams that the class will eventually become a course for first year students which is taught by seniors as a "way to initiate the students into the college." Students of all majors and from Notre Dame are encouraged to register for the course, not only humanistic studies majors. "It is important that all fields are represented in order for the course to be beneficial, we must have many voices" said Kelley. The class is a one credit course and will be held Mondays at noon. Any questions concerning the course should be directed to the Saint Mary's humanistic studies department at 284-4465. 
HE MIRROR HAS TWO FACES (PG-13)' :15,1:45,4:20, 4:35, 7:15,7:30, 10:15,10:20 ROMEO &JULIET (PG-13)1:20, 4:00, 7:05, 9:45 RAlNSPOTTING (R)too, 3:15, 5:30,7:45,10:00 
ET IT OFF (R) 2:15,4:50,7:55, 10:25 
URVIVING PICASSO (R) 1:30, 4:30, 7:20, 9:55 
Times valid through next Thursday 
No shows before 4:00 on Thursday, Thanksgiving 
*No passes 

Think ofus 
as your scHool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consun your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
UNITED Ll~10 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day.•. Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame  Arrive Midway  Arrive O'Hare  
Main Gate  (via Tri State Coach­ Terminals 1, 2, & 3  
transfer in Portage)  (International terminal  
15 minutes later)  
4:00a.m.  6:10a.m.  5:55a.m.  
6:00a.m.  8:10a.m.  8:10a.m.  
8:00a.m.  10:10 a.m.  9:55a.m.  
9:00a.m.  11:10 a.m.  10:55 a.m.  
10:00 a.m.  12:10 p.m.  11:55 a.m.  
12:00 p.m.  2:10p.m.  1:55 p.m.  
1:00 p.m.  3:10p.m.  2:55p.m.  
2:00p.m.  4:10p.m.  3:55p.m.  
4:00p.m.  6:10p.m.  5:55p.m.  
6:00p.m.  8:10p.m.  7:55p.m.  


VIEWPOINT 

page 12 Friday, November 22, 1996 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAMF. OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Man<~ging Editors Business Manager P.1mci.a C.:uson Matr Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor.. . .... Brad PrendergaM Advertising Manager... .. ... Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Ethan Hayward Ad Design Manager. .............................jed Peters Sports Editor ..........Timothy Sherman Production Manager.. ..................Tara Gricshop Accent Editor....... . . .............. joey Crawford Systems Manager ............ Michael Brouiller 
Saint Mary's Editor ...............Caroline Blum Controller............ .. ..............Tyler Weber Photo Editor . . ...... Michael Ruma 
The Oh!!crvt'r is the indcpendent newspaper publishcd by the srudcnrs of the Universiry of Notre lhmc duLac .uul SJint Mary\ College. It doc!! not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra· tion uf either ill<ttirurion. The news is repone-d ~ a(:c.:uratdy and objectively as possible. UnsignC"d edi­tori.ds reprc~em the opUuon ~f rhC" majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediror. Acccnr Editor. Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Ediwr. Cununcntarie-!'1, lencr!t .1nd In~ide Columm prcscnr the views of the author!!, and nor necessarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is av;tilablc to all members of the Notre Damc/Sainr Mary's com­munity ;~nd co all readers. The fr('e expression of varying opinions through lencrs is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in·Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631·4541 Adv<rdsing 631-6900/8840 Spons 631·4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manag<r 631-7471 Acc.:C"nt/Sainr Mary's 631-4 540 Fax 631-6927 Day EJiwr/ProJucrion 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Gcncrallnformauon 631·7471 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• EDITORIAL 
Holtz departure timely, leaves huge shoes to fill 
At some point in the last three years, we all said it. At some 
point in the last three years. we all thought about it 
It Is tirnn for Lou Holtz to retire. And yet as the reality set in, 
as we crowded around our TVs Tuesday afternoon and watched 
him say it, we could not help but feel sorrow in our hearts. It 
was indeed a "sad day." And as we turn the page of the book of 
Notre Dame football history, we will remember Lou Holtz as a 
symbol of all that represents Notre Dame. 
Holtz hns never been one for self-aggrandizement. In fact he 
is famous for his early-season negative assessments of his own 
football teams. But the time has come for the praise to be 
heaped upon him. . 
Lou Holtz has had nothing but love and respect for Notre 
Dame during his years here; indeed, he has had nothing but 
love and respect for the University his entire life. His devotion 
gotlS deepM than just the confines or the stadium. He has done 
intl!1itely more than deliver his promised national championship 
to South Bend. He has given of himself to the entire community. 
The now-famous Lou Holtz Masks which benefitted the South 
Bend Center for the Homeless are just one example of the good 
works of Holtz outside the arena of footbalL Indeed, Holtz has 
brought such an honorable, loving personality to the head coach 
position that it's a shame that Notre Dame has to find another 
coach. 
But we do. And the successor has some big shoes to fill. 
Character is something that Notre Dame actively seeks in all 
its faculty and staff members, including the football coach. 
Qualities that will be considered along with talent and experi­
ence in any coach include integrity nnd compassion. as well as a 
d~dkaiion to excellence both on and off the field. according to 
M1ke Wadsworth, Notre Dame's athletic director. 
Wctdsworth wants a coach who will be a "perfect fit" for Notre 
Dame. Be wants integrity in recruiting-a coach who will take 
an active role in his players' lives and be a role model for them. 
Finally. a candidate must be proficient in public speaking, as 
he will be an "ambassador" for the University, according to 
Wadsworth. 
Sounds like a list of qualities and character traits possessed 
by none other than Lou Holtz himself'. Is the University looking 
for a younger version of an old legend? It will not be easy to find 
a coach to meet the requirements, especially someone who 
tilled that job description as well as Holtz did. 
Holtz's record speaks for itself, but one of the more special 
achievements of his stay at Notre Dame was the honor paid to 
him by the students at the end of the third quarter of each home 
garrw. Tomorrow, we have the chance to pay him that honor 
one more time. 
It will be a moment to remember forever. 
• 000NESBURY 
tueu, l.lKC,/5 rroN, 
tR15 KIM 1.15/NG TH~ 
JOINTPf<WECT 70 
CRf;.t(Tf;3 7H~ IMPR£5­!ikJNOFITIBN60N, E:IJTtii!THaJTHAV­
m(11UHfT mtT:i' 


"The ACE Gators?" asked the cashier. "Um, I'm going to need to see a driver's license with this check then...You're from California?!? How and why did you end up here in Napoleonville, Louisiana'?" 
I, too, often wonder why I and the three other ACE Gators arrived in this rural. south­ern Louisiana town. Because EVEHYTIIING here in the Bayou is referred to as either "Gator" this or "Cajun" that, we at ACE Napoleonville decided, as our checking account testifies, to name ourselves the "ACE" Gators." 
Since that time not only have we increased this town's population from 880 to 884 and turned heads with license plates from Colorado, Oregon, and Washington, but we have sparked many questions beyond those of the perplexed cashier: "Why Napoleonville?" 
How we got here is easy to answer in one sense. Napoleonville is just one of the many new sites where The Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE). now in its third year of ser­vice, places teachers throughout the Southern United States. 
While it may not resemble the quaint place dripping in Americana that John Mellencamp describes in his song "Small Town," Napoleonville is a town that has already taught us about ourselves and each other, about community life, and about country life in Louisiana. From all that we have learned thus far, rather than asking "Why Napoleonville?," we ACE Gators find ourselves asking, "Why not?" 
More than just learning about life in a small town, I have gained incredible insight about the South. I still remember when during the interview for ACE that all applicants receive, I was asked how I felt about living in the South. I quickly replied "that is the icing on the cake in terms of this service program." 
Sure I was drawn to teae<hing in a Catholic school, living in a community, and earning a Masters in teaching, but I was also excited about the opportunity to come to know such a unique region of the USA. 
From its incredible sense of hospitality to its strong sense of history. the mystical South. the cradle of so many great Anwriean authors, always held a special allure for me. My plae!~­~ent is Napoleonville, combinod with teaching m the small school of OLPS. has providod me with a deeper porspective and understanding than I could have imagined. 

Lest we forget that we are in tlw South, Mother Nature always has a way of rnminding us. If it is not tlw temperatures outside that cause my students to beg me to turn up tlw air conditioner, twen in Novomber. tlwn it is swamps we drive through, the bayou we cross, and the sugarcane fields we pass all in tlw drive to school. 
My students also give constant remind!H'S with their thick Southern drawls, their t~xcitn­ment in foretelling the events of Mardi Gras, their disbelief that I have never eaten some of their favorite Cajun food, and their Cajun sur­names like Bourgeois and Bourdeaux. Despite the idiosyncrasies that characterize this region, we have found a home in Napoleonville. 
Walker Percy, the famous Soutlwrn writer, once said of his hometown: "Covington (Louisiana) is in the Deep South, which is sup­posed to have a strong sense of place. It does, but Covington occupies a kind of interstice in the South. It falls between places." So does Napoleonville, in place and in time. Equidistant from Baton Houge and New Orleans, our town also falls between places in the lives and work of the ACE Gators. 
While we find ourselves enjoying life after college in service with ACE for two years here in Napoleonville, we are still in between places in our development as teachers and as individ­uals. 
When the four ACE Gators return to their four cities in four different states, this small town of 880 people will have indeed marked us with a strong sense of place. I only hope the next time I am asked "Why Napoleonville?" I can begin to give a suflicient answer. 
Ann Sricherz is a 1996 Notre Dame graduate currently participating in the The Alliance for Catholic Education. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
" A II farewells should be 1-\.sudden." 
-George Gordon, Lord Byron 

VIEWPOINT

Friday, November 22, 1996 page 13 
• lETTER To THE EDITOR 
Holtz has given more to ND than just coaching 
Potato Famine a legitimate example of genocide 
Dear Coach Holtz: 
During the past eleven years the names of Notre Dame and Lou Holtz have become synonymous with each other. Over the past eleven years, you have grown with the University, and the University has grown with you. As you have stated, you have enjoyed your stay at the University; well, I'm sure I speak for all when I say that the University has enjoyed your stay. 
Coach Holtz, I have grown up over the past eleven years, becoming not only a Notre Dame fan, but also a Lou Holtz fan. Lou Holtz is a class act individual. In being one of the most visible teachers on campus and around the country, you put yourself in a position where what you said and did affected the entire cam­pus. However, you have never done anything to com­promise the values that you believe in nor the values that the University believes in. You talk of how the Notre Dame community is a big family and rightly so. This campus is one entire family, and like any other family, we hate to see one of our own leave. However, I am one that believes that you still have bigger and bet­ter things to accomplish in life. 
Rarely ever has there been somebody so dedicated to something that it carries over in other areas. Sir, your constant dedication to the University is like none the it has ever come to know except for Father Sorin, Knute Rockne, and Frank Leahy. If you look around the dif­ferent aspects of the University, you can see that dedi­cation is at an abundance. I believe that to be attrib­uted to you, Coach Holtz. Again. being a visible figure on campus your actions speak loudly of yourself. Dedication can be seen in the students attending class, in the athletes performing at their best, in the faculty members who stay the extra ten minutes after class to help out a student, and in many other places as well. 
Coach Holtz. you have been a great role model for those who have come to know you. You are a class act, a very dedicated man. who is strong in his faith, doesn't compromise his values, prays about tough decisions, and is an all-around great person. I hope 
• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Hecent discussions on campus and in South Bend remind us that, 150 years ago, Ireland was in the grip of the Great Hunger. "No one knows precisely how many people died in Ireland's Great Famine of 1845-52, but in a population 

Charles Rice 
of more than eight million people, the death count reached at least one million. Another million and a half emigrated. This occurred within the jurisdiction of the richest and most industrially advanced empire in the world." (Christine Kinealy, How Politics Fed the Famine, Natural History, Jan., 1996, 33) 
One reason why the Famine remains a subject of interest is that it need not have happened. "Potatoes were... the only produce which the lrish-75 percent of whom were feudal tenants of British landlords, fanatical preachers of 'free trade'-were allowed to eat or to feed their livestocks ... During 1846, Ireland exported enough wheat, barley, oats, oatmeal. pigs, eggs, and butter to feed its entire population. Many modern histori­ans have noted outrage at this export, which was heavily guarded by British troops against starving crowds. But few note that under British free trade poli­cies, even more wheat was imported into Ireland that year than exported; howev­er. at least half the entire Irish popula­tion was without any means to buy food; 'free trade' dictated that none be given -'no welfare'-and the rate of evictions was growing with their destitution." (Paul Gallagher, How British Free Trade Starved Millions in Ireland's Potato Famine, The New Federalist, May 29, 1995) 
In 1847, "Irish produce was still being sent to Liverpool on the very same ships that carried the emigrants, whom the English lawmakers claimed could not be fed, were redundant in their native land, and therefore had to go somewhere else." (Thomas Gallagher, Paddy's Lament (1982). 148-49) For those who chose, or were forced by British design, to emigrate on the "coffin ships," the predicament was hardly better. In a typi­cal case, the British brig Larch, from Sligo, buried at sea 108 of its 440 pas­sengers, and 150 of the rest were seri­ously ill when she reached Canada. (Ibid. at 210-11) 
Dr. Christine Kinealy, of the University of Liverpool, will speak at Notre Dame Law School at 12:15 on Nov. 26.. In her definitive study of the Famine, Dr. Kinealy marshals facts that implicate British officials in what we could today fairly describe as crimes against human­ity and genocide perpetrated by culpable indifference: 
"As the Famine progressed ... the gov­ernment was using ... all opportunity to facilitate ... long-desired changes within Ireland. These included population con­trol and the consolidation of property through a variety of means, including emigration [and] the elimination of small holdings... This was a pervasive and powerful 'hidden agenda.' The govern­ment measured the success of its relief policies by the changes which were brought about in Ireland rather than by the quality of relief provided... The response of the British government to the Famine was inadequate in terms of humanitarian criteria and, increasingly after 1847, systematically and deliber­ately so. The localized shortages that fol­lowed the blight of 1845 were adequate­ly dealt with but, as the shortages became more widespread, the govern­ment retrenched. With the short-lived exception of the soup kitchens, access to relief-or even more importantly, access to food-became more restricted. That the response illustrated a view of Ireland and its people as distant and marginal is hard to deny ... A group of officials and their non-elected advisors were able to dominate government policy ... to manip­ulate a theory of free enterprise, thus 
~-·--~·--·~,.-,_ ....... "-"··--­
......... .,.,.., .. .,.,.... ~. ...-..... , ...... l~··· 

that all this is in the minds of those who attend the 1------------==-=--------t 
game this weekend and do the "Lou Cheer" for the last time. Coach Holtz, you will be missed but not forgot­ten. You talk of how you desire not to be a legend; however, I think that all would agree that you are already a legend. 
Sir, take care of yourself, and God Bless you. Before, I close out this letter, I have one question. For those, like myself, who grew up and have come to know Notre Dame football and Lou Holtz what words of wis­dom, of consolation, of faith can you give us? In clos­ing I would like to end with the words from a famous American poet who wrote about an occasion similar to this: 
0 Captain! My Captain! 
0 Captain! My Captain! our fearful trip is done, The ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is won, The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exult­ing, While''follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and 
daring; But 0 heart! heart! heart! 0 the bleeding drops of red, Where on the deck my Captain lies Fallen cold and dead. 0 Captain! My Captain! Pies up and hear the bells; Rise up -for you the flag is flung-for you the bulge 
trills; For you bouquets and ribbon'd wreaths-for you the shores a-crowding For you they call the swaying mass, their eager faces 
turning; Hear Captain! Dear father! The arm beneath your head! It is some dream that on the deck You've fallen cold and dead. My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still, My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse or 
allowing a massive social injustice to be perpetrated within a part of the United Kingdom ... Within Ireland itself, there were substantial resources of food which ... could have been diverted, even as a short-term measure, to supply a starving people. Instead, the government pursued the objective of economic, social and agrarian reform as a long-term aim, although the price paid for this ultimate­ly elusive goal was privation, disease, emigration, mortality and an enduring legacy of disenchantment." (Kinealy, This Great Calamity (1994), 353, 359) 
A New York law and the New Jersey Commission on Holocaust Education have recently mandated inclusion of the Famine as an example of genocide in the human rights curricula in the public schools of those states. According to New Jersey Congressman Bob Menendez, who has introduced a federal law to require Famine education, "The Irish famine teaches an important lesson about intol­erance and inhumanity and the indiffer­ence of the British government to the potato blight that led to the mass starva­tion of one million people." 
The Genocide Convention, approved by the United Nations in 1948, provides the first juridicially codified definition of what has been a recurrent crime throughout history. Obviously, the Convention is not itself applicable to the Irish Famine which occurred a century before. But British policies in the Famine could seriously be argued to fulfill the Convention's definition of genocide as including "any of the following acts com­mitted with intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethical, racial or reli­gious group, as such: 
"(b) Causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of the group; 
"(c) Deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part;" 
Wanton indifference can supply the necessary intent. The Famine was an appropriate curtain-raiser on the inhu­manities that have plagued the past cen­tury. A common theme in these events is the subordination of the person to the 
r 

will, The ship is anchor'd safe and sound, its voyage closed 
and done, From fearful trip victor ship comes in with object won; Exult 0 shores and ring the bells! But I with mournful tread, Walk the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead. 
-Walt Whitman 

Again, Coach Holtz, may God bless and keep you. 
CRISTOBAL SALDANA 
Freshman Dillon Hall 

dictates of ideology. From 1928 to 1933, the Soviets exterminated the Kulaks by starvation because they were bourgeois and landowners. The Nazis exterminated Jews because the reigning ideology defined them as sub-human and a threat to the Nazi order. And so on. "In the five decades since World War II there have been well over 100 million fatalities due to war, genocide, democide, politicide, and mass murder," writes Srdja Trifkovic of The Lord Byron Foundation for Balkan Studies. The Irish Famine, of course, did not involve the direct and bloody murder of innocents. Instead, it resulted from a culpable official disinter­est born of inflexible adherence to non­interventionist ideology and compounded by disdain for the Irish on account of their religion and race. In 1846, Charles Trevelyan, the British treasury secretary, responsible for Famine relief, described the Famine as a "cure" for the overpopu­lation of Ireland "applied by the direct stroke of an all-wise Providence.'' He said, "The great evil with which we have to contend is not the physical evil of the famine, but the moral evil of the selfish, perverse and turbulent character of the people." 
"Esquimax and New Zealanders, " wrote Lord Clarendon, the British Lord Lieutenant in Ireland, "are more thrifty and industrious than those people who deserve to be left to their fate instead of the hardworking people of England being taxed for their support." (Kinealy, How Politics Fed the Famine, at 34-35) 
The Famine indicates that genocide can be committed, not only by direct and violent extermination, but also by culpa­ble indifference to the needs of a govern­ment's own people when that indiffer­ence is born of ideology reinforced by racial and religious prejudice. We ought to reflect upon the Famine, not in a spirit of recrimination but so we can learn from it. The Famine can tell us some­thing about the deadly combination of ideology and bigotry. 
Charles Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
--------------' 


----------~----~--~-~ -------~ 

ACCENT

page 14 Friday, November 22, 1996 
-
eartn 



Drum Majors TheLeprech 
By JACKIE MARTINEZ However after this year, Wojcikiewicz says MARY BETH ELLIS Accent Copy Editor he'll never forget "the feeling of going out Accent Copy Editor there and being the first on the field with all 
I
t's just minutes before game time. Ahead of that field ahead and the crowd yelling." Take a look at him sitting in a dorm room in the middle of a,, lies a blurred sheet of blue and gold spot-Henado Dell'Osso, also an Assistant Drum other Domer. Sweatshirt. Backpack. Thinking out loud about I tnd with the laboriously sketched signs of Major, shares Wojcikiewicz's excitement in give him. "WE LOVE YOU, LOU!" and "GO IRISII!" holding such an esteemed position in the Take a look at him standing in the north end zone of Notre Darr Behind stands a polished, stone-faced band's overall makeup. Deli'Osso's responsi-afternoon, and he tends to stand out somewhat. Short green pants. 11 wall of over 300. As the attention bilities include taking the latest dance moves Yelling "Go Irish go!" in time to the beats of the drum corps. whistln blows, out of the tunnel aris-and incorporating them into a half-time And the beard. The beard is a dead giveaway. 1~s the Band of the Fighting Irish led '· \ show that keeps the fans coming back But Hyan Gee doesn't mind having a face trademarked by the Uni\ by the gleaming white facade of the for more. been pulling Leprechaun mascot duty for two years now-first as a· poised trio we call the drum majors. Dell'Osso points out that, "A lot of cer games, now as the Green One himself every Saturday 
The first ones to charge onto the field times, the students don't get to give So how docs a kid from Spokane, WA, who until last yo, and into the house that Hoekne built, much input [on the band's perfor-rise to the most glamorous job on campus'? Peer pressur it is the drum majors mance] except for with the dance." of The Observer and putting them on my door," he sa) whose first steps trig-' As Assistant Drum Majors, and liked what I heard. I never thought I'd make it, but ger the wave of guttur-&_ Wojcikiewicz and Dcli'Osso conduct he's making that thrilling ninety-yard dash down the al yells that escalate to a ~i 'for those band members that can-swarming mass of the most famous gold helmets in the t thundering roar heard ~· ?f!*' ... not see the Head Drum Major, The symbol of the shamrocked fever surrounding lri! throughout the campus as 't . j -~;,;..: David Mullen. Notre Dame nationalism has dwindled somewhat. "F01 they approach the goal line. In 1 '\' .1 • , I' Mullen's role as Head Drum its spirit is crazy," says Gee, who, thanks to road gitm addition to their crowd-pleas-f · ~ · rr--~ Major requires him to "run Irish fans to those from colleges across the • ing cadence and hike step · ·:. i"~:~ '.,,.,J•, everything" in the words of paint their faces or even cheer harder. I however. the responsibilities of -~~ ·~· .,. (Y Wojcikiewicz. He sets the Notre Dame the football team and No 
Touring the campus at first as ana drum major extend far beyond 'l~'"" tempo, starts and stops the

,.,

great footing. . '"· ~ band, and runs the pep rallies and an overwhelmed freshman, did Gc Assistant Drum Major Steve traditional pre-game performance screaming fans at his cheering wh Wojcikiewicz runs the traveling band, · ·.~· ·•· on the steps of the Administration weekend when I'm out there I'm th the group of band members that '~ Building before the band sets out Not that it's all hand elapping a move around the four corners of the '· itf for the stadium with throngs of practices two hours a day with the stadium in the third quarter. ''~c, '• ,• ~ Notre Dame fans on its heels. tremendous amount of' work and Wojcikicwicz describes the experience . j So the next time you gaze upon far outweigh it all," he says. of having band members' every move the field and find yourself And those rewards, Gee c depend on just a flick of his wrist as \ \ ·( wondering about the men in as a South Bend snowfal involving. "a lot of eoncentration. I have tall white hats with maces in action with the fans ... I , to stay focused on just what the band is J their hands upon which ev-the picture they want. doing and not the crowd behind me." . l" r ··"-, ery band member's eyes are attend a Notre Dame ' 
Initially a tuba player, Wojcikiewicz }' fixed, they are the true and more special, I'll do w recalls always bringing up the rear and :. . .;' the proud. They are the lie grins for a seen seeing everything five minutes after ·' ,,.·~: Band of the Fighting Irish see a hint of the Dm everyone else. "Before this year, I didn't drum majors. job." know what it all looked like," he says. . '•, 
Concessions 

A
By LESLIE FIELD According to Fred Kraus, Stadium urn next year. (Always good with mus­workers. The volunteers are given a Accent Copy Editor Operations Concession Manager, not tard.) percentage of the total amount of money much. "What really gets mind-boggling And on hot days, the Ben and Jerry's earned from the game at which they s this historical season-ending is the amount of liquids we go through; peace pops are a big seller. The cookie worked. They, in turn, take that moneyhome game nears, it's time to pay a million ounces per game," he said. dough ice cream is nearly impossible to back to the organization they represent. tribute to the people behind the Can't beat the feeling. keep in stock. This year, the expected "If they have a tax-exempt organization great eats surrounding the stands. They And for those fans who must have ice cream sales neared $60,000. they can make around thirteen hundred are there at 5 a.m. preparing for the their traditional gameday popcorn, the Unfortunately, hot chocolate replaced dollars in a day," Kraus commented. SIJ,OOO fans who will, undoubtedly, get stadium addition will include a room the Lemon Chills and English Toffee And 200,000 is given back from food the half-time munchies. dedicated to. you guessed it, popcorn, Crunch, as the warm weather was cut sale protlt at the end of each football Notre Dame Stadium sells 60,000 of popcorn and more popcorn. "We sell as short by an unexpected cold snap. It season. their best-selling food item, the illus­much popcorn as we can make," Kraus only brought in $14,000, which still "We have a bigger per capita than trious hot dog, per game. That's 1.01 said. This addition will be a great help seems like solid earnings to most people. anyone else in this region. The onlyhot dogs per hungry fan. And Oscar in keeping the popcorn coming to all of With millions of ounces being dis­time any other school comes close is Meyer's claim to fame is only the be­the twenty one inside concession stands, pensed and thousands of dogs being during hot games when cold beveragesginning of Notre Dame Stadium's con­seven outdoor concession trailers and doled out, there has to be an efficient are the biggest sellers. We are the cnssion mania. After all. what is a hot the portable unit as well. and brave staff of workers. There are leader, thanks to our great fans," Kraus dog without a Coke to wash it down'? Hot pretzels will also grace the stadi-400 volunteers and seventy five paid said. 


page 2 Fridav. Novemht>r 22, 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
No tributes, just memories 
This is not  a  eulogy.  Only  a  few  
~nemories.  One man's  images.  My  
1mages.  

Images that will only bf~ memories in 
three short games. As l.ou lloltz coaches his ,. final game this ~~ Saturday at Notre 9 E-<l Dame Stadium, the 
tributes to him will bn 
numerous. 
This is not a tribute. 
Just my thoughts.Tah them for what Joe Villinski tlw Y are w0 r t h and Associate Sports movn on. That's what Editor 


evNyone did at Tuesday's farewell pow­wow. l.ou offered his thoughts and the people took tlwm for what they're worth. 
Now everything can continue. Birth. Football. Death. 
Normal wsurnption of the Notre Dame life cyde cannot proceed that suddenly, however. Not as suddenly as Holtz walked out the door and certainly not as sudden as athletic director Michael Wadsworth dosed it behind him. 
Before somebody new walks in that door, it is time to remember the lame duck who is exiting. 
l.ou lloltz is just a man. A man made famous by his prominent occupation. A man who won more games than he lost. A man whose departure was as mysteri­ous as his team's play this season. 
Most people will remember him for those reasons. 
Those are not my memories. 
About a week ago, a small handful of people gathered in DeBartolo Hall for a lecture about the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) program. The keynote speaker did not directly discuss the pro­gram, but broader issues. 
Issues such as the importance of teach­ing. Why discipline is necessary in creat­ing a learning atmosphere. The need to build a tnam in the classroom. 
That speaker was Lou lloltz. Doing what he does best; motivating people to achieve some end. There was no media around. No glaring lights from the tele­vision cameras. The only questions put to Holtz this night regarded his thoughts on the necessity to educate. 
A person. ignorant of Holtz's legendary status in the public eye, could have walked in the auditorium and listened to an excellent speech about how teaching can be a rewarding profession. Without knowing the man on stage was the Notre Dame head football coach. all you could have inferred was that this man was speaking from the heart. 
During Junior Parents Weekend last year, Holtz also spoke from the heart. lie talked about what family means to him and offered insights on family life that brought both laughter and tears. Holtz provided a perspective on the Notre Dame family, leaving parents trusting their decision to have sent their children to live under the Golden Dome. 
Holtz may have never understood some players he coaehed or the new athletic administration, but he did grasp life issues such as education, family, and others. 
In other words, things that mattered. 
Sure, Irish football matters. Matters as much as you want it to. But the things Holtz often spoke about outside the realm of football really mattered. Things that cannot be overshadowed by a coaching record or a bad call on the field. 
All of Holtz's calls off the field were not stellar either, but who's ever are. My memories are of him making as much of a difference off the field as on it. 
To reiterate, these are my memories. No better or more insightful than any­one else's. Just like Holtz, they will eventually fade to black. I wanted to share them before they leave my head. 
And before Lou Holtz leaves Notre Dame as coach of one of the most storied college football programs in the country. 
Of course, that's not why I'll remember him. 

The Observer/Rob Finch As a great speaker and a tremendous motivator, Irish head coach Lou Holtz is more than one of the most successful coaches in college football history. 
• THE iRISH EXTRA STAFF Barmmer and Mike Day Graphic Design:
Editor: Tim Sherman Christopher Mullins Associate Editors: Dave Statistician: Jim Belden Treacy and Joe Villinski Production: Tara GrieshopAssistant Editors: Dylan 

FIGHTING IRIS 

SCORE BY QUARTERS 1 2 3 4 OT Tot Farmer 54.33 56 489 8.7 6 81 KICKOFF RETURNS· No Avg TD Lg Notre Dame 59 114 75 77 0 325 Edwards 47.6 83 381 4.6 8 41 Farmer 7 16.1 0 27 Opponents 25 52 35 39 3 154 Kinder 35.3 53 254 4.7 3 28 Rossum 6 37.8 1 99 Denson 5 19.4 0 35
TEAM SlATS NO Opp PASSING Comp All Pet Yds TO lnt Lg Spencer 2 23 5 0 27

First Downs 212 146 Powlus 111 195 56.9 1577 7 4 48 

Total yards 4080 2673 Jackson 8 13 61.5 123 2 0 28 PUNT RETURNS No Avg TO Lg Total yards per game 453.3 297.0 Smith 1 1 100 4 0 0 4 Denson 15 12.3 1 74 Total offensive plays 661 595 Rossum 9 33.1 3 83
RECEIVING Rec Yds Avg TD Lg

Avg. yards per play 6.2 4.5 Mosley 2 7.0 0 14
Chryplewicz 23 289 12.5 3 31Rushing yards 2376 1276 

Johnson 22 366 16.6 1 48 INTERCEPTIONS NoRushing yards per game 264.0 141.8 
Mosley 18 257 14.3 0 45 Cooper 3Rushing plays 451 354 Edwards 16 179 11.2 2 39 Guilbeaux 2Avg. yards per rush 5.3 3.6 
Stephens 9 193 21.4 1 42 Cobbins 1Passing yards 1704 1397 Edison 1SCORING TO 2XP 1XP FG Sal Pis
Passing yards per game 189.3 155.2 

Tatum 1Edwards 10 1-2 0-0 0-0 0 62Passes completed 120 112 Rossum 1
Denson 9 0-0 0-0 0-0 0 54
Passes attempted 210 241 Minor 1

Sanson 0 0-0 31·35 6·9 0 49 Fumbles/Fumbles lost 26/17 15/11 
Passes intercepted 4 10 

Farmer 6 0-0 0·0 0-0 0 36 DEFENSE T A Tot FC FR PBU Sac Third down conversions 55/117 40/129 FIELD GOALS Tot 
Tatum 40 28 68 1 0 1 1 Cobbins 45 20 65 0 1 2 3
Percentage 47 31 Sanson 6-9 Fourth down conversions 7/12 6/8 Cengia 0-1 

Guilbeaux 37 16 53 0 0 1 1 Percentage 58 75 
Dansby 26 26 52 0 1 1 3.5 
The Observer/Rob Finch 
PUNTING No Avg Bk Lg Berry 29 23 52 1 0 3 9.0

RUSHING Yds/Gm No Yds Avg TO Lg Smith 37 43.5 0 65

Linebacker Lyron Cobbins ranks second 
Maiden 29 22 51 0 1 0 0
Denson 100.33 156 903 5.8 7 47 Palumbo 1 39.0 0 39

on the Irish with 65 tackles. 
Covington 37 11 48 1 2 4 0 
·S CAR L E T K N I G H TS 

SCORE BY QUARTERS  1  
Rutgers  7  
Opponents  82  
TEAM STATS  
First Downs  
Total yards  
Total yards per game  
Total offensive plays  
Avg. yards per play  
Rushing yards  

3  
1  
1  
1  
1  
1  
1  
T  A  
55  26  
58  19  
63  14  
38  28  
32  27  
29  23  
23  28  
38  13  




Rushing yards per game Rushing plays Avg. yards per rush 
Passing yards Passing yards per game Passes completed Passes attempted Passes intercepted 
Fumbles/Fumbles lost Third down conversions Percentage Fourth down conversions Percentage 
RUSHING Yds/Gm Bosch 69.7 Crooks 28.3 
2 
51 87 

No 
84 64 
3 38 75 
Rutgers 207 2220 246.6 610 3.7 826 91.8 336 2.5 1394 154.9 115 274 12 26/9 42/141 30 12122 55 
Yds 
418 
255 
4 OT 38 0 50 0 
Opp 
3986 442.8 669 5.9 2000 222.2 418 4.8 1986 220.7 137 251 9 22112 621132 47 5/9 56 
Ava TO 
5.0 3 4.0 1 
Tot 
134 294 
Lg 
90 32 
Fauntleroy 
Cobbs PASSING Sacca Stephans Valentine 
RECEIVING Harper Holland Powell Bosch King Seeger 
SCORING Mike-Mayer Seeger Bosch King Crooks 
FIELD GOALS Mike-Mayer 
PUNTING Slovan 
PUNT RETURNS Strohmeyer 
15.8 6.6 
Comp 
33 60 22 
Rec 
23 17 12 11 10 10 
TO 
0 3 3 2 2 
Tot 
3-8 
No 
62 
No 
1 
33 126 32 59 
All Pet 
70 47 140 43 61 36 
Yds Avg 
288 12.5 239 14.1 151 12.6 127 11.6 162 16.2 138 13.8 
2XP 1XP 
0-017-18 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 0-0 
Avg Bk 
38.7 1 
Avg TO 
18.0 0 
3.8 0 20 1.8 0 8 
Yds TO lnt Lg 
38.4 3 3 38 92.3 4 4 37 62.0 0 4 57 
TO Lg 
0 38 1 57 0 37 0 36 2 37 3 29 
FG Sal Pts 
3-8 0 26 0-0 0 18 0-0 0 18 0-0 0 12 0-0 0 12 
Lg 
66 
Lg 
18 
Bosch Holland Chadwick Ward 
KICKOFF RETURNS Williams Fauntleroy Harper Cobbs 
INTERCEPTIONS Clarke Bryant Ward Ross Williams Chadwick Dreher 
DEFENSE Kelly Bryant Brady Swinger Woolridge Cebula Devlin Dreher 
9 7 5 0 
No 
11 1 22 7 
No 
5.6 4.9 0.4 26 
Avg 
18.1 18.0 17.7 15.4 
Tot 
81 77 77 66 59 52 51 51 
0 0 0 0.0 
TO 0 0 0 0 
FC 
0 1 5 0 2 5 0 0 
12 13 11 26 
Lg 
26 18 31 27 
FR PBU 
1 3 0 1 0 1 1 1 2 0 
~ ~ 
0 1 0 0 0 
Sac 
0 
5.0 
0 
2.0 
2.0 
4.0 
1.0 
0 
Photo courtesy of Rutgers Sports Information 

Tight end Rob Seeger leads the Scarlet Knights with three touchdowns. 
~ ··~· --~--------------------­


Friday, September 20, 1996 
NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
Sept. 5  at Vanderbilt W14-7  
Sept. 14  PURDUE W35-0  
Sept. 21  at Te~as W27-24  
Sept. 28  OHIO STATE l Hl;29  
Oct. 12  WASHINGTON W54-20  
Oct. 19  AlR FORCE l 11~20  
Nov. 2  Navy (Dubhn} W54~27  
Nov. 9  at Boston College W43:21  
Nov. 16  PIITSBURGH W60-6  
Nov. 23  RUTGERS  
Nov. 30  at USC  
lHh  
season  
at  
Notre  

Dame
Lou Holtz 
Career record: 215-94-7 At Notre Dame: 99-29-2 Against Rutgers: 0-0 
~NOTRE DAME 
No.Name  Pos.  HI.  WI.  YR  
Deke Cooper  WR  6-4  205 FR  
Kinnon Tatum  ILB  6-0  224 SR  
Ron Powlus  OB  6-2  212 SR  
KoryMmor  OLB  6-2  235 so  
Emmell Mosley  Fl  5-8  184 SR  
lyron Cobbms  ILB  6-0  246 SR  
Janous Jackson  OB  6-1  218 so  
Eric Chappell  OB  6-5  220 FR  
Raki Nelson  WR  6-1  178 FR  
10  Mike Perona  OB  6-2  197 SR  
10  Deveron Harper  CB  5-10  175 FR  
11  Jay Johnson  WR  6-2  170 FR  
12  Ma11o Strayhorn  FS  6-1  210 so  
12  Scoll Cengia  K  5-10  180 JR  
13  Bert Berry  OLB  6-3  245 SR  
14  Ivory Covington  CB  5-10  168 JR  
14  Tony McGunigal  08  6-3  190 SR  
15  Allen Rossum  CB  5-8  178 JR  
15  Paul Rogers  OB  6-2  220 SR  
16  Todd Dvorak  K  5-10  175 so  
16  John Shrngler  OB  6-1  231 so  
17  Hunter Smith  PNVR  6-2  210 so  
17  Mark McKenna  OB  5-8  194 SR  
18  Cikai Champion  SE  5-10  183 SR  
19  Jrm Sanson  K  5-11  185 FR  
19  Wayne Gunn  ss  6-2  210 so  
20  Kevin Kopka  K  5-7  196 so  
20  Byron Joyner  FS  6-2  180 so  
21  Shannon Stephens  CB  5-10  179 so  
21  KeVIn McDonnell  K  5-11  180 so  
22  JayVickers  RB  6-1  205 FR  
23  Autry Denson  WRfTB  5-10  189 so  
24  TyGoode  CB  5-11  189 JR  
25  Randy Kmder  TB  6-1  204 SR  
26  lee Lalyelle  CB  5-10  188 FR  
26  Mall Mammolenli  TB  5-8  165 SR  
27  Bobble Howard  ILB  5-10  228 so  
28  Ken Barry  FB  6-0  224 JR  
29  A'Jani Sanders  ss  5-11  182 so  
30  Jarvis Edison  FS  6-4  219 JR  
31  Robert Farmer  TB  5-11  227 SR  
32  Justin Meko  DB  5-11  190 so  
33  Jaime Spencer  FB  6-0  247 so  
34  Ronnie Nicks  DB  6-1  215 FR  
35  Scoll Palumbo  p  5-11  189 SR  
35  Robert Phelps  CB  6-0  185 SR  
36  !1m lynch  DB  5-9  170 JR  
36  Chris Wachtel  p  6-0  211 SR  
38  Paul Grimm  DB  5-9  169 JR  
39  Benny Guilbeaux  ss  6-2  202 so  
40  Kevin Carrella  TE  6-1  239 SR  
41  Joe Sabey  ILB  6-2  222 SR  
42  Alton Maiden  NG  6-4  271 SR  
43  Bill Wagasy  OLB  6-3  225 SR  
44  Marc Edwards  FB  6-0  237 SR  
45  Joey Goodspeed  FB/LB  6-0  230 FR  
45  Chris McCarthy  K  5-11  213 JR  
45  Phil Sicuso  DB  5-11  175 so  
46  Bill Gibbs  FS  5-10  171 SR  
47  Bill Mitoulas  ILB  6-1  229 JR  
48  Renaldo Wynn  DE  6-3  275 SR  
49  Joe Thomas  ILB  6-2  226 so  
50  David Payne  OL  6-1  284 so  
51  Melvin Dansby  DE  6-4  288 SR  
52  Alex Mueller  OG  6-6  275 so  
53  Lamoni Bryant  DE  6-4  253 so  
54  Ed Casieri  LB  6-1  230 so  
54 Luke Pelitgoul  LT  6-6  270 JR  
55  Shelton Jordan  DE  6-3  241 so  
56  Kurt Belisle  DE  6-3  251  JR  
57  Rick Kaczensk1  c  6-4  264 SR  
58  Mike Burgdort  TE  6-1  222 SR  
59  Matthew Kunz  ss  6-1  216 JR  
60  Antwoine Wellington  LB  6-2  230 FR  
60  Sean Rogers  OT  6-0  292 SR  
63  John Farrell  c  5-10  253 SR  
64  John Merandi  c  6-3  273 FR  
64  Mike Denvir  TE  6-4  246 SR  
65  Mall Griesbach  OG  6-1  258 JR  
66  Jell Kilburg  c  6-4  283 SR  
67  John Wagner  OT  6-7  320 so  
68  Mall Brennan  OL  6-5  270 FR  
69  David Quist  NG  6-5  290 SR  
70  Tim Ridder  OT  6-7  297 so  
71  JerryWisne  OG  6-7  285 so  
72  leon Hires  OL  6-6  280 FR  
73  Mike Doughty  OT  6-8  313 SR  
74  Rob Mowt  OL  6-5  290 FR  
75  Chris Clevenger  OT  6-8  290 SR  
76  Jeremy Akers  DG  6-6  300 SR  
77  Brad Williams  Dl  6-6  250 FR  
78  Jon Spickelmier  c  6-3  267 JR  
79  Mike Rosenthal  DG  6-7  310 so  
80  Malcolm Johnson  SE  6-5  203 JR  
81  lewis Dawson  WR  6-0  180 FR  
82 84  Mike Gandy Albert Jones  TE/OE WR  6-4 5-11  235 FR 183 SR  
85  Antwon Jones  NG  6-3  258 so  
86  Dan O'leary  TE  6-5  230 FR  
87  Jimmy Friday  DE  6-2  240 so  
BB  Bobby Brown  SE  6-3  185 so  
89  John Cerasani  DE  6-4  258 so  
90  Lance Legree  LB  6-2  248 FR  
91  Darnell Smith  DE  6-5  276 SR  
92  Joe Ferrer  LB  6-3  230 FR  
93  B.J Scoll  Dl  6-4  250 FR  
94  Justin Orr  WR  6-2  235 SR  
95  Corey Bennell  DE  6-1  251 JR  
96  Jim Jones  DL  6-4  260 FR  
98  Pete Chryplewicz  TE  6-5  265 SR  
99  Jason Ching  Dl  6-4  270 FR  

The Irish Extra • THE TEAMS 
With three consecutive games of over 300 yards rushing, the Notre Dame offensive attack is playing its best football of the season. 
Autry Denson needs just 97 yards to reach the 1000 yard plateau for the first time. Backup Randy Kinder is out with a separated shoulder, but Robert Farmer has been on a roll, running for a career-high 140 yards in the win over Pittsburgh. Fullback Jamie Spencer responded 
FULLBACK 
33·Spencer 45·Goodspeed 
FLANKER 
5·Mosley88·BroWll 
Irish rushing attack vs. Rutgers defensive line 
well in his first career start last week. 
The key to success for the Scarlet Knights will rest on their ability to stop the run. Defensive tackle Rashod Swinger has been outstanding for Rutgers, leading all Big East linemen in tackles. Chris Cebula is undersized but has notched four sacks this season. The group will have to play the game of their lives to have any chance of staying with the Irish on Saturday. 
page 3 

RUTGERS SCHEDULE 
Aug. 31  VILLANOVA W38-28  
Sept.7  NAVY l 6-10  
Sept.J2  MIAMI L 0-33  
Sept21  atVfrgi~iaJech. L 14-30  
Oct5 ·  ?!SyracuSe 1.0~42  
Oct. i2?  ARMY L21-42  

Oct..d~: .. at Boston GoUege L13-37
OtC26 ... . . .. ... .TEMPLE W28-17 Nov. 9 WEST VIRGINIA l 14-55 Nov. 23 at Notre Dame Nov. 30 at Pittsburgh 
First season at Rutgers 
Terry Shea 

Career record: 17-13-2 At Rutgers: 2-7 Against Notre Dame: 0-0 
10 1 t 11 12 13 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 21 22 22 23 24 25 26 26 27 28 28 29 30 31 32 33 36 37 38 40 40 41 41 42 44 45 46 
Art Dreher Norris Crawford Cindy Crawford Cameron Chadwick Bobby Orro Gary Fauntleroy Reggie Funderburk Ralph Sacca Peter Clarke Kevin Williams Aaron Brady Bobby Brady Mike Jones Joe Donato Shin Black Lee McDonald Mike Stephans Darrell Butfing1on Gil Ross Damon Hamlin Harry Hamlin Thomas Kelly Jarrett Cooper Mr. Cooper David Grilin Jared Slovan Chad Bosch Mike Buchanan Pat Buchanan Nick Mike-Mayer Derek Ward Charlie Ward Taman Bryant Jacki Crooks Louis Turso Melvin Cobbs Joe Diggs Chris Washington Charlie Titus Alan Davis Robert Seeger Bob Seger Joe Hynes Sean Hynes Marc Demyen Roger Wingate Rashied Richardson Paul Jovanavic 
4 7 John Notaro 
48 49 49 53 53 54 55 56 58 59 60 63 
64 
65 66 66 67 70 71 
72 
74 74 76 77 78 80 81 82 84 85 86 87 87 88 89 90 93 94 94 95 96 98 99 
Robert P. Phelan Dax Strohmeyer Pax Lou Grasso 
Lou Holtz 
Jack McKiernan Shawn Devlin Matt Fleming 
Joey Jones Rusty Swartz Chris Howe 
Scott Griffing 
Bryan Yeager 
Ivan Ramos 
Shaun O'Hara Patty o· Hara 
Joe Cirone Denton Cinquergrana 
Brad E. Victor Bryan Rafferty Ben French French Kiss Pe1e Donnelly 
Kerry Ware 
T.J. Spiuo Bill Powell Andy Holland Steven Harper Chris Hutton Marcus Luna Walter King Charles Woolridge Orlando Woolridge Jason Curry Ron Keller Antonio Horn Chris Cebula Mike Beth Macbeth Jim Maua Ansel George-Shields Matt Washington Rashod Swinger 
Pos. HI. WI. YR 
LB 6-2 220 JR DB 5-10 185 SR BABE 6-2 130 HOT DB 5-10 190 SR DB 5-10 175 JR RB 6-0 245 SO WR 5-11 175 SR QB 6-4 220 JR DB 5-9 170 SO DB 5-10 185 JR DE 5-11 200 SO TV 6-2 165CHILD QB 6-4 210 FR K 5-11 175 JR DB 6-1 200 FR K 6-0 195 SO 
-
OB 6-1 215 SR QB 6-0 200 SR LB 6-0 185 SO HB 5-8 190 SR LA 5-9 170 LAW DB 6-0 190 SR DB 5-11 190 FR ABC 6-4 195 JR DB 5-10 180 SO P 6-4 200 JR HB 5-9 175 SR K 5-11 175 FR CONS 5-7 155 GOP K 6-0 200 SR DB 6-0 180 SR SUCKS 6-0 185 FSU LB 6-1 215 SO RB 5-11 190 FR CB 5-8 170 FR HB 5-10 190 SO FB 6-0 190 SR FB 6-1 235 SO 
p 
6-6 210 JR WR 6-1 170 JR TE 6-4 230 SR SNGR 6-2 200 SR LB 6-0 230 so ROOMIE 5-9 150 SR FB 6-0 240 JR DB 6-1 180 so DT 5-10 240 JR LB 6-0 220 SO LB 6-0 200 SO LB 6-1 205 FR LB 6-3 210 so PEACE 9-0 500YEAH LB 6-0 230 SR RETD 5-8 160 OLD c 6-2 280 SR DT 6-1 270 SR G 6-1 280 SR DE 6-3 220 SR LB 6-2 235 SR OG 6-4 280 so DL 6-3 250 FR DL 6-3 265 FR OG 6-4 300 so 
c 6-3 265 so 
AOMIN 5-9 110 FR DE 6-3 195 FR OT 6-6 275 SR OG 6-4 255 FR OG 6-3 300 JR 
-
OT 6-4 300 so TONGUE 2-0 1:30 TIME OG 6-2 300 JR OT 6-4 290 SR OT 6-4 290 SR WR 6-3 190 JR WR 6-3 195 SO WR 5-10 175 SR WR 6-5 200 JR TE 6-3 240 JR WR 6-2 185 FR DE 6-3 245 SR BULLS 6-4 220 RET. TE 6-4 250 SR TE 6-4 240 SR DT 6-1 280 SO DE 6-3 220 SR DT 6-2 240 SO SHAK 5-3 145 LIT TE 6-4 220 SO OE 6-4 245 SO DT 6-2 250 JR DT 6-3 290 SR 

page 4 The Irish Extra • THE COVER Friday, November 22, 1996 
Beyond the shadows 
Out of the spotlight, Irish linebacker Kinnon Tatum has emerged as a star 
By MIKE DAY Assi,ranr Sports EJiror 
W
ay out in the darkness, in an abyss beyond the shadows, lurks a truly dangerous specimen. 
Without a hint of his presence, hn quintly waits for his JH'Xt victim. And when tlw moment arrives, he strikes in tlw blink of an ~~yc. delivering a jarring, earth-shaking attack on lfw unsuspecting prey. 
And with that, he quickly slips back into the shad­ows. 
l.innbackE~r Kinnon Tatum is not the most recogniz­able nanw on the Notre Dame defense. In fact, of the four starting linebackers, he is often lost in the shuffle, taking a back seat to the bigger names and the higher profiles. 
Guys likP l.yron Cobbins. Bert Berry, and Kory Minor an~ mentioned with the frequency of one of Tatum's bonP-crushing tackles. 
But it snPms that no matter how many tackles he n~cords or how many players he sends crawling to the sidPlines. Tatum always manages to hide in the shad­ows of lfw more heralded Cobbins, Berry. and Minor. 
"It is hard for me to explain," said defensive coordi­nator Bob Davie. "Cobbins has had the opportunity to gPt his hands on a lot of balls, so his name always conws up. Bert Berry and Kory Minor play the rush linebackPr position wlwr£' they can get a lot of sacks. And sacks seem to attract attEmtion." 
"But I'll say one thing. Since I've been here, I don't think a player on this team has improved more than Kinnon Tatum." 
-
While his fellow members of the linebacker quartet, nicknamed "The lleadbangcrs," grab all the headlines. Tatum is perfprtly content with plugging along and quietly taking care of business. 
"That kind of stuff nmlly doesn't matter to me," said Tatum. "My job is to go out and compE-~te to the best of my ability. I know tlw rest will just take care of itself." 
l·:vE~n though the fans and media may lose sight of what Tatum has accomplished in two years as a startE~r. his teammatE~s and coaches are lirst in line to arknowlPdgP what thn sPnior middle linebacker means to tlw Irish defense. 
"lie is the glue of the defense," said Minor. "lie makes it all go. Kinnon never misses an assignment and is always in tlw right place at the right time. Without him. this defensr. would not be what it is." 
"Kinnon Tatum is absolutr.ly dynamite," said Cobbins. "!lis tenacity and intensity in every game and practice is what makes him a great linebacker... And nobody hits like Kinnon Tatum." 
K
innon Tatum doesn't just tackle; he makes a statement. Any running back or receiver who plans on traveling Tatum's way is forced to think twice about it. In two years as a starter, the six foot, 224-pound mass of muscle has developed a knack of 

The Observer/Rob Finch Often overshadowed by the likes of Bert Berry, Lyron Cobbins, and Kory Minor (4), linebacker Kinnon Tatum (2),also pic­tured here with Alton Maiden (42), quietly leads the Irish in tackles and has earned the nickname "The Hitter" for his 
knack of making the big hit. and I've just tried to take advantage of them," said Tatum. "In our style of defense, the middle lineback­crs have to make plays, so that's what Lyron and myself have tried to do." Playing in the shadows is nothing new to Tatum. As a defensive back out of Fayetteville, North Carolina, Tatum followed in the footsteps of current NFL stand­

I":Ji~~~~----:;;ii~'"""'l.,.'""\l··~~"""""~-~~::-)ig~::-71 outs Donnell Woolford of the Chicago 
< 
-
dnlivering punishing blows that can be felt throughout the stadium. "It is dnfinitely something I take pride in," said
., 
Tatum. "I just try to give it everything I've got and nevE~r let up. If you let up, you're cheating yourself. A big hit shows that you're giving it your all and did not lnt up at any point in the play." 
The rnsults spnak for themselves. After ranking sec­ond on the Irish in 1995 with 82 tackles, Tatum has elevated his game to another level. Heferred to by many as "The Hitter," the middle linebacker leads the Irish with 68 tackles and has tallied a sack and one intereeption this season. 
"The opportunities to make plays have been there, bears and Brad Edwards of the Washington Redskins. 

"There's always been someone ahead of me who sort of set the stan­dard for me to reach," said Tatum. "I've never tried to be anyone else. I just want to be myself and reach the goals that I set out to accomplish." 
Hecruited as a safety, Tatum was switched to linebacker just after he arrived at Notre Dame. The switch paid immedi­ate dividends for the Irish as Tatum started four games as a freshman when starter Jeremy Sample went down with an injury. 
Following a successful freshman year, Tatum was forced to take a small­er role in 1994 with the return of Sample. Despite 
the setback, Tatum did not give up and even benefited from the tutelage of Sample and fellow inside linebacker Justin Goheen. 
"I had a lot of playing time for a freshman, so it was a pretty frustrating sophomore year. I learned a lot though, and I never gave up. I think that the experience benefit­ed me in the long run." 
As starters over the last two years, "The lleadbangers" have formed a close-knit group, feeding off each other's success. And by banging the most heads on the football field, "The Ilitter" does not take a back seat to anyone. 
"I can't begin to describe how much he The Observer/Rob Finch After missing last season's contest at Purdue, Tatum responded with a team high eight tackles in a 35-0 victory over the Boilermakers. 


means to this defense," said Davie. "To be successful. we need Kinnon Tatum to have a big game. lie dis­rupts a lot of things that the other ol'fnnsn is trying to do, and we can capitalize on that." 
"lie is a great player, but he is a fantastic person too," said Berry. "lie's kind of a jokester, and he helps keep the guys loose. And I say this from deep down: I am a better person from knowing Kinnon Tatum." 
As he prepares fOI' his final home game this Saturday against Hutgers,' Tatum realizes that it will be a moment he remembers for the rest of his life. 
"It will be an emotional time for me and the rest of the seniors," said Tatum. "It's our last home game and the last home game for Coach lloltz. We want to go out giving it our best." 
And with that. he slips back into the shadows again. 
·---~--~--------------------~-----­
ACCENT

Friday, November 22, 1996 page 15 

ednesday afternoon, and he's like any e options his major in Goverment will 
Stadium in the middle of a Saturday ge yellow sign that screams, "NOISE." 
rsity of Notre Dame. Gee, a junior, has 
rsity understudy at volleyball and soc­
C rolls into town. 
had never lifted a porn porn in his life "People started cutting tryout ads out . "I went to the informational meeting 
decided, 'Why not'?"' Two years later, ength of Notre Dame Stadium with a mntry in his wake. 
football scoffs at recent concerns that people to say that Notre Dame has lost s, has had the opportunity to compare ountry. "It's not that more of our fans 's a feeling of pride in the tradition of rc Dame the school." 
· wed junior in high school and then as 
1 ever sec himself with fifty thousand 
m'? "Never. never!" he laughs. "Every 
1king. 'Gosh, how did I end up here?"' 
d TV camera hamming for Gee, who 
est of the cheerlcading squad. "It's a 
lot of responsibility, but the rewards 
ickly discovered, are as overwhelming 
"The best part is the personal inter­
ill stay until the last person has gotten 
Some have taken their life savings to 
Jotball game. If I can make it a little 
atcver I can." 
d, and underneath the sweats you can 
cr in the short green pants. "That's my 
By JOEY CRAWFORD Accenc Editor 
T
he alarm clock flashes 6:29 a.m.; just one more minute of sleep. On football weekends, the days start early for the student managers at the University of Notre Dame. The student managers represent what being a true Notre Dame fan is all about: volunteer­ing their lives and time for the pure love of football. 
"l wanted to be part of Notre Dame athletics," explains senior head manag­er Kevin Haggard, who spends up to seventy hours with the football team. 
As early as the days begin on Football Saturdays, those interested in joining in this group, must begin equally as early. 
The process begins in the spring of freshman year. Freshmen managers work the spring practices and learn exactly what it takes to be a student manager. They learn quickly that the organization eats up a great deal of time which does not leave "a lot of time to goof around." 
Sophomore year is even more tumultuous for this group of students, but this is also when the perks begin. Sophomore managers are invited to work two home football games a year. Their responsibilities become more involved as well. They work other sports: taping practices, shagging balls, writing down plays, and working close­ly with other coaches. 
Sophomores also participate in the heralded activity of painting and buffing the legendary golden helmets of the Fighting Irish. This activity, which is just one event in a collective group called "game prep," begins early Friday 
Campus Security 
By LESLIE FIELD 
Accent Copy Editor 
W
atcha gonna do when they come for you? Accent poke with Rick Rakow, director of security and police, and got the answer to this and other pressing game day questions that you always wanted to ask, but 
couldn't. At 5 a.m. on Saturday, security begins barricading the fields and lots in effort to get ready for the masses 
of people to enter Joyce South, Red West, the baseball 
field and the infamous RV land. They are all prepped for an onslaught of beer cans, dips and fried chicken. 
By 7 a.m. everything is in -;~~~=~;:;,::;;~~;l~
place. ·· Thirty South Bend 
police, thirty St. Joseph county police and twen­ty-five private security 

guards are hired, working in twelve hour shifts, in addition to Notre Dame security for game days. There are also twelve mounted patrollers who are hired to react to various situations spon­caused by excessive drinking. sored Generally, the actual garneday problems are caused by this gaters. If students excessive drinking, which will comes as no surprise to are caught, the repercus­diehard Domcrs. However, in the past few years, incidences sions can be anything from a hefty of drinking problems have actually been reduced. "Over the $300 fine to suspension or even dismissal. years, alcohol in the stadium has become less of a problem "If we see a place where there's five hundred of someone's because students can't leave and get tanked during half closest friends, we're going to take a look to see who is spon­time," Officer Rakow commented. soring it and look to see if it's a student-sponsored event and Notre Dame security has become much more aggressive make a student affairs referral," Officer Rakow said. On over the years, according to Officer Rakow. He claims that average, two to three arrests are made per game. more students are getting reported to student affairs for There are also many problems involving cars parked for things like intoxication in the stands leading to poor conduct. tailgaters. They are perfect targets for theft while unassum­But, Officer Rakow said, "The vast majority of people who ing Irish fans are in the stands. "Some people are their to come in are in pretty good shape. Ushers have the discretion victimize others," Officer Rakow commented. not to let people in." So as you enjoy Lou's final home game and your friends However, outside the stadium, security still warns students and family, remember that being careful and smart have to to follow the rules in DuLac. On page twenty two, it states be a part of tailgating as well as the Natty Light and Bud. 
Student Managers 

afternoon and can continue well into Haggard. Now he spends almost every done. the night. The sophomore managers waking hour with the football team, Joe Frericks, a sophomore manager, also set up the locker room the night making sure everyone is in the right maintains, "If you work hard and have before a horne game. place at the right time. He has enjoyed fun and basically enjoy what you are 
The next morning, they take the field learning from Lou Holtz during his stint doing, it can be very rewarding. It with the team and help out the coaches as head manager: "I've learned a lot makes you feel like an integral part of when they can, moving the cords that and it's really exciting to be right there the University." connect the field crew to the coaches' in the middle of the action." With his And what are those rewards? With box high above the stands, tracking position comes a well deserved full­all of the time they spend together, the plays and supplying footballs when scholarship tuition, which adds to the managers became very close. "The needed. At the end of the school year, competition. friendships you make with the other each manager fills out a peer evalua­With all of these activities, how do managers is one of the great rewards of tion judging the other managers' per­they find time to study? Haggard the job," explains junior Christy Grady. 
formances. The top twenty are asked explains organization is the key. "They'll do anything for you. We're .... to come back and are involved solely Sometimes it may seem impos­really close." with football. sible, but it Being a member of the student 
The twenty junior student mangers go be manager organization is rigorouswith the team to their pre-season prac­indeed, but the experience can be tices and get paid up to $1,000 for their golden. They are given the involvement. They help run prac­opportunity to do things that tices and oversee the younger other people managers. The juniors have would pay to the opportunity to go to do. every game as well. 
Following the rigor­ous season is yet another peer evalu-~ 
ation. Here, the twenty managers are ranked and then given the opportuni­ty to choose what sport they want to manage the next year. The top three managers work football and the next two manage basket­ball. After that it's a free-for-all to pick their favorite sport. 
Last year's top manger honors went to 

..~............n.........~..........~--~--~--------~----------------------------------------~-------------------­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 22, 1996 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
'Husker arrested in hit and run Old Oaken Bucket 
now just pours pride 
By ED HOWARD Associated Press Writer 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Nebraska linebacker Terrell Farley allegedly hit two parked cars and tried to run away be­fore he was arrested early to­day for the second time this year on suspicion of drunken driving. 
Farley was suspended from thn tnam and will be dropped from the squad if he is found guilty, coach Tom Osborne said in a written statement. I le said the team had tested Farley for alcohol usage daily since a pre­season drunken-driving inci­dent and Farley had tested dean. 
Police chief Tom Casady said the 21-year-old senior was docked driving 61 mph in a 35 mph zone shortly before mid­night Wednesday. 
One of college football's top defensive players, Farley was booked about 1:15 a.m. on sus­picion of drunken driving, re­fusing to take a test for alcohol levels, speeding, driving with a suspended license, leaving the scene of a property damage ac­cident and resisting arrest. 
He was released from jail about an hour later after post­ing $250 bail, including $100 in cash he provided. lie is sched­uled to be arraigned Dec. 9 in Lancaster County Court. 
Police reports say Farley's car ran off the road, slid about 135 feet through a muddy field and then came back on the road and struck two parked vehicles. Each car had an esti­mated $1,000 damage. 
Casady said the 21-year-old senior did not struggle with po­lice but tried to run away before he was arrested. 
Farley pleaded guilty last month to a drunken driving charge and was suspended from the Cornhuskers' first two games. He was sentenced Oct. 25 to one year of probation and a $200 fine for first-offense drunken driving. His license also was suspended for 60 days. 
"Terrell had been receiving counseling and treatment for alcohol abuse and had been no­tified that any further problems in this area would result in dis­missal from the team," Osborne said."Even though he may no longer play football here at Nebraska, we will continue to support him academically and personally." 
The player had been arrested Aug. 30 near the campus. Police said his blood-alcohol level was 0.177 percent. 
By STEVE HERMAN Associated Press Writer 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
The Old Oaken Bucket, a moss-and mold-covered Civil War relic plucked off a southern Indiana farm, is the symbol of one of college football's oldest rivalries. 
This year, it also offers an op­portunity for lame-duck coaches Bill Mallory and Jim Colletta to go out with a smile and at least a small measure of satisfaction. 
Mallory, already assured of a second straight losing season was fired three weeks ago. Colletta, whose only winning season at Purdue resulted from a forfeit victory two years ago, cited burnout as the reason for his resignation four days after Mallory was sacked. 
All that's left now is pride. 
"This game Saturday, you separate it from all the other games," said Mallory, who has won half of his 12 games in the annual season windup for the two schools. 
"It's a big rivalry. A great part of college football is when you're involved in rivalry of this sort," Mallory said. 
Colletto, whose Boilermaker teams have won two of five Old Oaken Bucket games with Indiana, reveres the bucket his­tory as much as Mallory. 
"It's been in existence for such a long time," Colletta said. "But it has some real historical value to both schools. With this long chain of gold P's and I's, it becomes a unique trophy." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS-Teach  1963 TRIUMPH TR-4.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Have you made plans for  Stressed by exams and papers?  
NOTICES  basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  $3,500 OR B/0. LARRY 289-5303 EVE.  ALL GAMES HOME AND AWAY  PARENTS WEEKEND yet? Take your parents and siblings to  Anxious about seeing your family at Thanksgiving?  
teaching certificate or European  232-0058  SKALCOHOLIKS  COUNSELINE can help I  
VFW 624 Friday night dinners ­ languages required. Inexpensive  House for Sale by Owner  24 HAS.  "Bring a Parent Party" at  Just call 1-7793 Mon.-Thurs. from  
4:30-8 Dancing -9-1. All members  Room & Board + other benefits. For  1308 White Oak Drive in Wooded  BUY -SELL-TRADE  JAZZMAN'S Friday @ 10:00. Oh  4pm to 12am to hear professionally  
& guests welcome. 214 U.S. 33 N.­ info. call: (206)971-3680  Estates. Walk to Notre Dame. 3  yeah, it's 18 and over! I  audiotaped materials.  
Next to Knight's Inn.  ext.K55843  Bedroom ranch, 2 car garage  TICKET-MART, INC.  Skankdidyicious!!!  See pg. 3 of your ND/SMC  
attached w/ breezeway. 11/2 baths,  p.s. Sherman will dance  phonebook for a list of tapes.  
SPRING BREAK Travel Free  ALASKA EMPLOYMENT ­ 1313 SF main level, 1025 sf base­ WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Sponsored by the University  
Organize a Small Group Earn $$$  Students Needed! Fishing Industry.  ment. ale, disposal, all appliances,  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  IRIS- Counseling Center and Psychology  
Cancun Jamaica Bahamas  Earn up to $3,000-$6,000+ per  Security System.Completely  232-0061.  Nothing suspicious. I had one of  Club.  
Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs.  month. Room and Board!  refreshed to sell. asking 88,500.  those smoothie drinks @ the Juice  
all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf &  Transportation I Male or Female. No  Open houses 12-5 every Sunday.  $$$$$$  Bar ... ohhh! -STANLEY  ##########LGBT###########  
Sun (800)763-5606.  experience necessary. Call  Call219-295-8727  I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS  Attention all LESBIAN, GAY,  
(206)971-3510 extA55848  ALL HOME GAMES.  FAX IT FAST!!!  BISEXUAL, and SUPPORTIVE  
MICHIANA PAINTBALL IS NOW  1995 Gold Saturn 25,000mls  272-6551  Sending & Receiving  students, faculty, and staff: that  
OPEN FOR INDOOR PAINTBALL  Attention: Alumni, Parents, and  Air, Automatic, anti-lock brakes,  at  group you love so much is having  
GAMES AT SCOTISDALE MALL.  Students  dual air bags. $12,900  GA.s FOR SALE GA.s  THE COPY SHOP  a social event TODAY at 9:00.  
CALL 291-9462 FOR INFO.  Looking for a porcelain Basilica  Call257-0238  ""'"'"""'""PITT, RUTGERs , USC ,  LaFortune Student Center  For more information, call the  
issued in 1994  GA.s CALL. ....272-7233.  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  Q-LINE at 236-9661.  
Going to Pittsburgh for Thanks. and  -Will pay good price!  LAWRENCE A COLLECTABLES  FAX IT FAST!!!  ##########LGBT###########  
have room for 3. Leaving Tues.  Please call Kyle at 634-1799  Store and Museum  Need Rutgers GA's?  
morning. Call Steve, 234-9533.  Decorate your room, den, office  3 for sale@ 277-9957  THE FIRST FEETING FOR STU­ 
Michiana's largest night club and  Notre Dame items -jerseys, pro­ DENTS WHO WORSHIP TIM  STOMPER BOB ON FRIDAY!!!!  
##########LGBT###########  newest restaurant is now seeking  grams, pins, etc.  FOR SALE: 2 Rutgers GAs  CORBETI  ATCORBYS  
Attention all LESBIAN, GAY,  competant, hard working individuals  Sports and movie celebrities' auto­ 273-2580  WILL BE HELD TONIGHT AT THE  (IN THE GOOD PART OF  
BISEXUAL. and SUPPORTIVE  to fill several positions within our  graphs. Photos matted & framed.  JACC. BECAUSE MR. CORBETI  TOWN!)  
students, faculty, and staN: that  growing company. Positions now  Early 1900's equipment -bats,  INSISTS ON MAINTAINING  
group you love so much is having  available are: Hostess, Banquet  gloves, hockey sticks, game-used  Need Student Converted GA for  A LOW PROFILE, HE WILL NOT  
a social event TODAY at 9:00.  and restaurant servers, bus per­ shoes, etc.  Rutgers for cousin's first game.  MAKE HIS APPEARANCE UNTIL  Ride available to NY or N NJ on  
For more information, call the  sons, Beer Tub and shot girls. All  Downtown Mishawaka  Call Steph X4135  AFTER THE PEP RALLY.  Wed before TG, returning on  
Q-LINE at 236-9661.  positions are ideal for students. If  109 LWE  HE WILL BE SIGNING AUTO­ Sunday. Call Brian at 287-4876  
##########LGBT###########  interested, contact Heartland and  257-0039  NO FOOTBALL TIX  GRAPHS FOR LOU HOLTZ AND  
The Old Chicago Steakhouse at  BUY AND SELL  BOUGHT & SOLD.  THE REST OF THE PLA YEAS AT  
Spring Break Bahamas Party  222 S. Michigan St. South Bend.  AM -232-2378  THIS TIME.  Ride needed from FLORIDA (I'll be  
Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great  ARE YOU LEAVING 2ND SEMES­ TICKETS  PM -288-2726.  AND PLEASE, STOP ASKING­WE CANNOT RELEASE HIS  in W Palm, but can get to any­where) to South Bend after  
Beaches & Nightlife! Prices  TER AND DON'T KNOW WHAT  RUT. STU FOR SALE-35$ -Ryan  PHONE NUMBER.  Christmas, anytime before school  
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring­ TO DO WITH YOUR FURNITURE?  Rutgers GAs for sale: up to 6 seats  234-1078  starts. Promise to entertain, share  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  WE ARE MOVING OFF CAMPUS  together; (219) 250-3150  $ and driving, and make an other­ 
AND MIGHT NEED IT! CALL 4­ For sale: 4 USC tix. Excellent seats.  GOODBYE LOU, WE'LL MISS  wise boring trip most enriching! call  
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break  4843  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Call X1930.  YOU!  Brian 287-4876  
Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From  ALL GAMES HOME  
South Bend $419! Prices Increase Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on  FOR RENT  AND AWAY 232-0058  Buy/sell Rutgers tickets ­Check our price 674-7645  LAST TIME FOR GANG GREEN. YOU KNOW  00000000000000000000000000000  
Food, Drinks! 111% Lowest Price  24 HAS.  WHAT THAT MEANS. THIS IS  Looking for a unique gift idea?  
Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com  WALK TO CAMPUS  BUY -SELL -TRADE  2 Rutgers GA's for sale.  THE LAST WEEK  Custom Color Copy Picture  
1-800-678-6386  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  Room avail. if needed. 277-8340  TO DRINK. TO CRY. TO PUKE.  Calendars are now available at  
232-2595  TICKET-MART, INC.  LOVE YOU  THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune  
Spring Break Panama City!  NEED RUTGERS GA's  GIRLS. WE'LL REUNITE AT  Student Center. Just bring in your  
Boardwalk Beach Resortl Best  7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  312 951-5008  GEORGIA TECH NEXT  favorite pictures and create a mem­ 
Hotel, Location, Pricel 7 Nights  College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  YEAR!!  orable calendar!!! Choose from  
$1291 Daytona-Best Location $1391  bath, wood floor, wash/dry, vaulted  232-0061.  One Rutgers GA $35, Call Daniel  three formats:  
Cocoa Beach Hilton $1691 spring­ ceil, porch, furniture avail.  273-6428  CONGRATS TO MATI CASEY,  (1) 12 Picture Monthly Flip  
breaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  BEAUTIFUL! 273-2580  FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME  ON THIS HIS LAST GAME. YOU  (2) 1 Picture Monthly Tear-OM  
GAMES 235-3394  Need 1 Rutgers GA  ARE AWESOME.  (3) 1 Picture Full Year View.  
HEY ALL YOU SAW PEO­ ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  call Scot X2005  BUT I MUST ADMIT, I AM EXCIT­ 00000000000000000000000000000  
PLE ....... WHERE DID YOU ALL  ND-SMC EVENTS.  HELP!  ED TO TAILGATE WITH YOU  
GO? I NEVER SEE YOU-HELLO  IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK­ Student needs Rutgers GA's  std tkt 4 sale x3666  NEXT YEAR. THE DRIVE UP  THANKS ST. JUDE FOR FAVORS  
ONE PEN-WE SHOULD HAVE A  ENDS.  for family.  FROM CHICAGO  GRANTED. TKS  
X-MAS GET TOGETHER! I MISS  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  Call Mark at x1487  When parents divorced, dad  WILL BE NICE! CONGRATS ON  
YOU GUYS.  243-0658.  got tixs. Now I'm a Senior and  YOUR OFFER! LOVE, ME  
ILOST & FOUND I  REGGAE D. J. 234 0705  NEED RUTGERS TIX Brigitte x4055  mom wants to see a game. PLEASE-I need one stud conv GA or be disowned! CALL  LF-What better reason to party then Patti C's birthday. Next year, it  LUCAS!! Ummmmmm...  
NEED 1 RUTGERS STD TIX  243-0721  will be declared a national holiday.  beer nuts  
••••••••••HELP!!!""""""""""""  2 & 6 BDRM HOMES AVAIL NOW  CALL MICHELE @X2984  
·-11  I lost a gold ring with a purple  OR NEXT FALL. NEAR CAM­ LOU'S LAST GAME!!!...  ADOPTION IS A  ""Rutgers tickets for sale"" Call  
stone. It has great sentimental  PUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272­ Need a GA or Student ticket for  2 GA'S GREAT SEATS ...  CHOICE OF LOVE.  Becky@ 284-5162 with best after  
value. Please, if you find it, call  6306  Rutgers game. It's for my little  CALL 634-2480.. (LV.MESSAGE)  Choosing Adoption is an unselfish  
Nicole x2547-REWARD.  brother. Call 4-2340. Ask for Frank.  act of love. Your child will be raised  Pregnant and considering adop­ 
Spacious 2 bdrm. apartment near  I need 3 ga tickets for Rutgers Call  to know this. Caring couple wish to  tion? Loving couple wish to adopt a  
LOST: SILVER RING WITH RED  campus, unfurnished, for spring  Tim at x1747  share our love, laughs, and lives  white newborn. Home Study com­ 
STONE. REWARD IF FOUND!!!  semester. Call Peter at 234-4779.  2 RUTGERS GA'S FOR SALE  with an infant. Dad is kind and gen­ plete and approved by Catholic  
PLEASE CALL ELAINE AT x4331.  CALL CARL @ 4-2004  For Sale: Rut tix BOX SEATS!!!  tle. Mom is friendly and fun. Let's  Charities. Call Lisa and Jim 1-800­ 
House for Rent  WITH BEST OFFER  B/0 4-3518.  talk and see if we're right for you  442-3213  
WANTED  S.side-Erskine Blvd Great Neighborhood  !!!RUTGERS GA 4 SALE!!!  and your baby. Andrea and Lee: 1­800-213-3960.  PANTHER- 
Newly Aemodeled-10 min from NO  Needed: 2 Rutgers GAs  call Nicole @ 4x 2807  Just Hold On ... and  
HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  2 bedrom-bsmt-garage-new appl  call Ryan at 4-3662  Attention Seniors!!!  "DON'T LET GO!"  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT (8 13)360-2243.  wid-ale-water incl avail Dec or Jan $595+dep  NEED Rutger senior section stdt tix  PERSONAL  In honor of our LAST PEP RALLY the class of 1997 is sponsoring a  
1-7545 or 232-6942  Anne 289-4922  LAST PEP RALLY PARTY @  Blythe-A--You know that we love  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Mail Starved Domers in lnnsbruck  Alumni Senior Club.  you and big Dave (not to mention  
Positions are now available at National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife  FOR SALE  STUD TIX 4 SALE X1413  crave correspondence!! lnnrain 33  Doors open @ 5 pm-At 6:45, we will walk over together to the JACC  Chippy, PL, Gramma, Grampa, etc). Forget the losers. They'll  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  A-6020 lnnsbruck  (seats have been saved). FREE  never be happy in their little worlds  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext.  COUCH 77"L X 35"W ASKING  n. d. tickets for sale  Tirol, Austria  FOOD!  
N55849  $125.00 288-6529  271 1635  Europe  BRING YOUR PARENTS!  O'Roarke, are you happy now?  

--~--~-­

-~------~-~----~---------~~­
Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
GIVEAWAY YOUR COAT.....AND SHARE THE WARMTH. 

-

Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame want to help 
you share the Notre Dame warmth and spirit. When you turn in 
your coat or jacket at a designated collection point, including 
the Hammes Bookstore and the Center for Social Concerns, Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame will donate it 
to someone who can really use it this winter. In return, you will receive a certificate good for 25% off a new GEAR for Sports ­
jacket at the Hammes Bookstore. Share the warmth and the 
spirit of Notre Dame! 
• 
PR.JECT WARMTH 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Sponsored by: 
-
UNNERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
St. Michael's 

Hammes-Bookstore 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT Laundry 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 22, 1996 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBAll 
Belles under new leadership 
By COURTNEY REAGEN 
Sports Writer 
To follow in the footstnps of a legend such as former basket­ball coarh Marvin Wood. is not an easy task. However, Saint Mary's nnw head basketball coach. David Honder, is striving hard to <TPate his own footsteps. As of this moment, Hoeder has tlw Saint Mary's basketball team hard at work preparing for the 01Hming of their season. The BeiiPs tip ofl' the year this week­end under the supnrvision of their nnw coach in a tournanHmt hostPd by Kalamazoo College. 
Saint Mary's ended last season with a rncord of 7-15. but that does not keep Hoeder from hav­ing a positive and enthusiastic attitude towards his team. 
lie stressed that the Belles strengths are. "perimeter shoot­ing, quickness, hustle and dnsire" and will serve as a threat to any opposing teams. 
With the strong talent Saint Mary's possesses on their team thny are bound to dominate. Coach Hoeder explained that he nxpects key playing time from Darcy Nikes. Nikes is a 5'4 guard and will lead the team at point guard this season. 
lie will also look to Sheila Sandine. a 6'1 forward who holds thn title of the top re­turning scorer. 
Another valued Belle is the sole senior on the team, Marianne Banko. Banko is a returning starter, however, she is presently battling a day to day foot injury. 
According to Boeder the rest of the starting lineup will consist of Nicole Giffin, and Brenda Hoban. 5'8 guard/forward. 
The Belles will, unfortunately, be missing Charlotte Albrecht, a 6'0 forward/center from Aberdeen. SO due to an ankle injury that will keep her out until December and Julie 

The Observer/Kim Michalik 
St. Mary's will count on a blend of youth and experience for success. 
January. we will give thorn a run for their 
When Nicole Giffin was asked money." Giffin's last words con­about having a new head eoach cerning both Alma and she responded positively. Kalamazoo-"We're ready!" 
"lie has brought a new inten-Brenda Hoban is excited for si ty to our program. He has all of that hard work to pay off. been working us very hard and She exclaimed that the Belles has taught us a lot of things in a were ready to start and find out small amount of time." how they can compete 
Saint Mary's -----------------, 
will travol to Kalamazoo 
f%J
Friday where • 
~:~r ;ill/i~~ u,
11 College at 8:00 p.m. 
11/22·23
On Saturday 
11/26
the Belles will -~ 
11/30
then face the , 12/3Kalamazoo r 12/6-7 Hornets. 
12/10 
12/14
Boeder stated 
1/9
that, "both 
1114teams will pose 
1/16 
as a real chal,: ·.~ 1/21lenge for us. ''" 1/23Giffin agrees 
1/25 and remarked 
1/28 that playing 
211· 
2/3
Alma will let 
, 2/6
Saint Mary's <' 
2110
know where x 
2/15
they stand. 
2117 
"They will be 
2/19 
2122
good but if we 
SAINT MARY'S 
1996-97 

BASKETBALL 
@ Kalamazoo College @ Hope College @ Beloit College @ Calvin College SMC Roundball Classic @ Olivet College @ Adrian College @ Rose"Hulman lnst. Alma College @IUSB DePauw University Manchester College @ Defiance College Unlv. ofChicago @ Madonna University @ Bethel College @ Bluffton College Albion College @ Franklin College Grace College @ Lake Forest College 
Anderson Univ. 


Will be available in the Office of Student Affairs 
315 Main Building 

beginning Monday, November 25, 1996 through 
-
Friday, January 17, 1997 
• SAINT MARYS SWIMMING 

Swimmers looking to earn individual honors 
By DEBRA DIEMER 
Sporrs Writer 

Saint Mary's Belles travel to Olivete College in the double dual swim meet Wednesday, however they chalked up a loss to Albion College. 
As the Belles had predicted, they dominated the waters against the smaller or the teams. 
The three schools met earlier this season in an invitational and the results remained the same. 
The Belles, with only seven swimmers competing. placed at lea.St one swimmer in most off the events. But, each swimmer dominating their event wasn't enough to beat Albion. On the other hand, the Belles proved unbeatable to Oliveto. 
It has been a slow season, but the Belles record doesn't show all of the teams accom­plishments in such a short time. The swimmers' devotion has contributed to seconds shaved off times and broken school records. 
More improvement is expect­ed to come. 
Again, junior Allison Smith placed first in the 1000 freestyle. Smith's work has paid olr this season as she con­titmcs to dominate the event meet after meet. 
With only seven swimmers on the team, everyone is expected to do their share. The Belles freshmen, Nancy Midden, Michelle Samrota, and Laurie Healy have stepped up to the collegiate competition croating suceess for the team. 
"Wednesday night went real­ly well. Our win over Olivete was the first of the season. Everyone is ready to work harder in order to create more wins," said Midden. 
The Belles expect more time in the pool will help improve th!:'ir record. YN, the record is not the main focus this season. Coach Angela Addington is focused more on individual improvement for the team. 
"I think that we are ding well. We only had seven swim­mers competing last night against Albion, a t(lam with 25 members. 
"We don't have the depth in numbers, but we have one strong swimmer in each event and we count on them for the points," expressed junior Natasha Mitchenor. 


Our Lady of LaSalette 
For more detailed information about Fr. Sarin ­Fr. Moreau and the apparition of our Lady of LaSalette send $1 
•
laSalette c/o Erwin J. Lovas 
115 W. 13th St. 
Mishawaka, IN 46544 
!J~rJi'Mrn
I NowAppearing At Parisi's 
··@! 
~  I&  
~  ~  
I  I  
~ ~ ~m  Pianist/Entertainer Albert Hidalgo  ~ 1 ~ 1  
~  ~  
~  
~  LIVE  
~  
~  Sunday Night  
~  From 6:30 to 9:30  
~  In The  
~  
~  Dining Room  
~  
I~  ItalianCuisinewith an IrishView  ~  
~  1412 South BendAvenue  ~  
1~  Soud1Bend, Indiana 4C617  ~  
~  (219)232-4244  m  


...--~--------~-~_____...,--~---------------~-----, 
' 

Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Dear Alumni and Friends, 
The staff of Cam.pus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend 
Rutgers Football Weekend November 23 and 24, 1996 

Saturday Vigil Masses 


Basilica 30 minutes after game 

Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
Sunday Masses 
' 
' 
I 
I 
I 
-I
I I
Basilica 8:00, 10:00, & 12:00noon I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
Sacred Heart 6:00, 7:00, 8:00 
Parish Crypt 9:30 & 11:00 a.m. 
-

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 22, 1996 
• INTERHAll fOOTBAll 
Interhall championship to be end of several eras 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON 
Spuns Writer 
An emotion-filled weekend is on tap at Notre Dame Stadium. Two eras will be coming to an end. Of course there is the ob­vious one, but this Sunday will mark Flanner IIall's last foot­ball game. All that stands between Planner and the per­feet ending is the Off-Campus Crime. 
Quarterbacks: Even 
The finals will pit two of the most impressive quarterbacks in the league. The Crime's Scott l.upo and the 'Cock's Mike Daigler are both dangerous runners and passers. I.upo has been successful in eluding the pass rush with impressive scrambling ability. 
In faet, in last Sunday's game against Sorin, Lupo had most of the Crime's rushing yardage. Daiglt1r, while an impressive scrambler in his own right. is the more accomplished passer of the two. llis composure in the pocket and keen field sense have allowed him to throw in tight coverage situations. 
Whoever plays the most up to his abilities this Sunday will be able to determine the tempo of the game. 
Running Backs: Even 
Hunning backs will be anoth­er key matchup in determining a champion this Sunday. Both teams have run over their op­position in the course of the playoffs. 
Flanner 's Drew Klosterman and Erik lliman will anchor a the tough Zahm defensive line, and broke through Fisher's defenses. 
Off-Campus has pretty much destroyed any run defense, in­cluding Flanner's in a game earlier this season. The run­ning corps that puts up big yardage early will definitely have an advantage later in the game. 
Receivers: Edge Flanner 
This is an area in which Flanner clearly dominates Off­Campus. The Gamecocks' re­ceiving corps has been vital to Flanner's postseason success. 
The Crime's receivers have shown promise in key game sit­uations, but the Off-Campus offensive plan has limited the action they have been involved in. If Flanner can outmanuver the Crime's secondary, it could be the 'Cocks in a surprise. 
Offensive Line: Edge Flanner 
This has been a category won through experience, not just mere talent. On the surface, both teams have impressive of­fensive lines. However, Flanner has routinely put down the best defenses in the league in the postseason. 
The Gamecocks line has stopped the potent Zahm line cold and surprised a Fisher defensive line that silenced the Alumni running game. 
Defensive Line: Edge Off­Campus 
The Crime's defensiv.e line has been impressive throughout the season, only cracking once in the team's loss to Morrissey. This is the line that had shut 

running game that dismantled down the Flanner running 
RELIGIOUS QUARTZ WATCH 0 "Maria" ...Model 9606480 0 "Jesus" ...Model 9606380 
Each with a revolving "red heart" second hand, gold tone case and genuine leather band. 
Send Only $39.J'.I 
CHECK OR MONEY ORDER 
PLUS $3 ShlpplngjHandllng Par Watch to: 
DESTINY II 
P.O. BOX 3504, COLUMBUS, OH 43210 

• 
~C{)S 
Francesco's Welcomes all ND & SMC Parents 
256-1444 

SPECIALIZING IN ITALIAN CUISINE 
Southern Italian Cooking at Its Finest Prepared by Francesco and Family An Authentic Taste of Italy Most Romantic Place in South Bend and Mishawaka 
I!ours: 
1213 Uncolnwuy West

Mnn.-Thurs 4:00-HI:OO p.m. 
Mislwwaku

Fri.&Sat. 4:00-11:00 p.m. 
( Frunce.<eo was chefat NO for 30 years)

Sun. Closed 
Did you know... f 
game earlier in the season. If Off-Campus can do the same, the improved Flanner running gam~ will be in deep trouble. 
Linebackers: Edge Flanner 
The linebacking corps of Flanner is the best in the league, period. Brett Galley, Robert Miakawya, and Steve Walter have limited most of the offensive output by normally productive opponents. They will be in charge of preventing most of the Crime's most signif­icant offensive gain's this Sunday. If they are effective, 
Off-Campus may have  a tough  
time  putting points  on  the  
board.  

Secondary: Edge Off-Campus 
Again, it is experience that points the way to the better de­fensive backfield. Off-Campus did a remarkable job in elimi­nating the dangerous Sorin 
We're At 
We care. From the day you move in, our friendly, profes­sional staff will give you great service. Great location, great service, gn~at price.•.Hickory Village has what you need. Come by and see for yourself! 
Efficiencies from $290 1-Bedrooms from $305 2-Bedrooms from $375 
24·hour Emergency Maintenance Service Attentive Staff • Cable TV Available Free Aerobics Classes Laundry Room in Every Building Acres of Rolling Lawns and Trees Pool, Sundeck &Clubhouse Close to Great Shopping Air Conditioning 

Call or stop by today and v.e'll show you how great living at Hickcxy Village can be. 
272-1880 
+llCKORl] 
lJlLLA~E~ 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10·4 & Sun. 12-4 

That you could own acondominium or townhome just 
minutes &om Notre Dame for as little as $379* per month? 
A wise investmentfor students, parents, alumni andfaculty. 
• 
Condominiums and townhomes as low as $56,000 

• 
Perfect for game weekends 

• 
Beautiful waterfront settings ., <;,BO~ 


~v-~ 
~r§)~
North Shm·e Club 
:; 
":­
~A. $

-~qsuo'i-'t<:J
Models Open Dat!y Sat. & Sun. 12-5 P.M 
(219) 232-2002
Mon.-Fri. 10 A.M-6 P.M 
(800) 404-4275 
' Monrhly paymc:nt~ of P. and I. ba!.cd on .1 purchase price of $55.990 wuh 20% down and a]0-ycar 7.37S A.R.M. 

passing game in the semifinals. 
They will face a similar pass­ing style this weekend as Flanner signal caller, Daigler can effectively throw in heavy traffic. If the Off-Campus back­field can remain alert, they can shut down a good portion of the Flanner offense. 
Special Teams: Edge Flanner 
While not as important to the interhall game as in other foot­ball leagues, special teams could be an important aspect this Sunday. Flanner's unit has consistently outpunted and out­kicked the Off-Campus special team unit. So in a one or two point game, it would be advan­tage Flanner. 
Intangibles: Even 

Quill~ a few things are on the line this Sunday, besides this year's interhall football cham­pionship. For Flanner it is the hall's last game before splitting into Siegfried and Knott. What better way to close out the hall's history with a champi­onship? This game is also the 'Cock's chance to exact revenge on the Crime for an earlier loss this season. This game could also be redemption for last year's heartbreaking champi­onship game. 
Off-Campus is playing for most of the same reasons as Flanner. Most of the Off­Campus team are members of last year's Planner team and also remember well the disap­pointment of last season. 
This game could also serve as the Crime's erowning achievement in a season they have dominated. Both teams will definitely playing their hearts out in the last game of the original stadium. 
Happy Birthday dear 
Matthew Michael 

,:;:.,, 
• > ~·;.; 
Thanks for you... Thanks for Zahm... 

~ .. ) .~,. ~ 
<:!A :;;;f~Gf;lf 
Thanks for Notre Dame! 
Happy Birthday 
to our dear KEITH ANTHONY 
Author of that magical best seller 
"Golden Dreams" 

LA ESPERANZA 
Authentic Mexican Kitchen "Your Passport to a New Eating Experience.' 
Serving lunch & dinner~ & eatering available 
Great Priees-Average dinner: $6.50 Average lunch: $3.95 
TACOS... ENCHILADAS... CHIMICHANGAS.. . CHILE RELLENOS... TAMALES... FLAUTAS.. . WET BURRITOS & MORE... 
l!"'·t""·~"--~·?"!·~-.~--~---~-_...,.,.,..~P"·~---, 
:······ Taco Dinner $3.95 : : g~WJ.ada; Dinn~~t $<4,.~95 : ~';• , Burrito Dinner $4.95 : ~tf!(;IUQebanga Dinner $4.95 

ll{Q~ ;_.~·:;.:;;;,;...,.. __.....i-:...0. -·--·-~~·-;;;..·~~ -·---·.J 
Located at 1636 N. lronwoOll ­Next door to Nick's Patio Within Walkin Distance rom Cam us! 


----~---~---~-~-------­
Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 



VARSITY SHO 



"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 

-

Joyce Center: "On the Concourse" (EnterGatel or2) 
-..
Fieldhouse (Enter Gate3) Tent: Located outside Gate 10 

Open 10 a.m. on Friday Open 8:00 a.m. on Saturday Open 10:00 a.m. on Sunday Uoyce Center Only) 
~------~------------------~--------------------------------~---------------------------------­
----­ --­ 
page 22  The Observer • SPORTS  Friday, November 22, 1996  
• VOLLEYBALL  

Setters hope to maintain domination, perfection 
By JOE CAVATO 
SportsWriter 
When one thinks of the Notre 
Dame volleyball team and the 
Big East conference, two words 
come to mind, dominance and 
perfeetion. 
They also hope to dominate the Big East banquet as junior Jaimie Lee and freshman Mary LeiTers ar·c up for conference player of the year and rookie of tlw year. respectively. 
Lee has been a key clement this year as she played setter with the injury to Carey May. LnfTers has been dominating at the net with her 6-4 frame. Senior captain Jenny Birkner won the Big East player of 1995. 
Since joining the conference last season the setters are 22-0 which includes two perfect regu­lar seasons and one tournament championship. They will be looking for their second consec­utive tournament championship this weekend in Pittsburgh for the Big East tournament. 
Villanova and the host Panthers are the only teams in the conference that have man­aged to take games from the Irish. Thus. the Domers are clearly the class of the confer­ence but they have yet to hit their stride as tlwy arc without services of hitter Angie Harris and blocker Jen House. 

258·4911 
EAT-IN OR CARRY-OUT 
Moo-Thof" 11 :30-8:30 Fri. 11:30-10, S•t5:30-10 Town & COI.Intry Shopping Centre 
"1 think we're still playing be­low potential," senior hitter Jen Briggs commented. "We have the capacity to beat them (the Big East) so it shouldn't be a struggle if we play our game. We have a lot more talent then they do." 
"It definitely wasn't real com­petitive though the teams are getting better," commented Brown. 
"It would be nice to be in a tougher conference," com­mented freshman Mandi Powell. "But since its not we always know that we have a really good chance to be in the (NCAA) tour­nament and that's a positive." 
So this weekend will provide the Irish with a chance to just worry about things on their side of the net as they are in yet another transition. Besides the injuries, Brown has switched hitters Briggs and junior Jamie Lee. Brown is also hoping that Lee will be at 100 percent as she spent some of yesterday at the infirmary. 
But dealing with adversity and adjustments is nothing new for Brown's squad as they have been shaken up all season but their plethora of talent has been essential. 
"I think that depth was one of our strengths heading into the season," Briggs explained. "We have had so many hurdles since the beginning of the season this is just one more thing we need to get through." 
Sophomore Lindsay Treadwell, Briggs and Powell have combined to fill in for Rouse and Harris. Briggs and Powell have done the job as they each took a turn in throb­bing Connecticut and St. John's last weekend while Treadwell has provided consistent offense from the frontline. 
"Mandi has been doing a great job and I have a lot of confi­dence in Mandi," Brown ex­pressed. "She's a very good passer and I think her hitting has improved since earlier in the year." 
One of the six-footer's best as­sets is her ability to come off the bench, prepared for action at any instant as Briggs explains. 
"What I admire about her is that she can go in as a freshman at a crucial moments and just play. She doesn't get rattled 

-
...: 
[ID® W®M [L~~~ W®[f~~oo~ ~oo i![ru~ ~~~i!Cil [ID [f(i)ooil a00 ~ [ID ~ilrrw ~ MCil~~ ~it C1l ~Cil[f~~[f~ 
'Uifu(!! ([J)U~ §]p~!SJ1h(!!ffi f~(tlt®lfY, ls looking for MANAGERS and KlTCHEN MANAGERS. Due to continued expansion and promotion within, we are selecting candidates who have a college background and recent restaurant experience. lf you are willing to relocate, then we just might have a job for you! 
'!Jih(!! ([J)U~ §]p>~!SJ1h(!!1titil 1F~d®lfY challenge includes hiring and training out­
standing staff members, managing business practices such as purchasing 
and cost control, and supervising unit operations through a player/coach 
style. Promotions throughout the company are selected from inhouse 
personnel. 
'!JlJ(!! ([J)U~ SJP>~!SJ1h(!!ffi 1F~(t1t®lfY compensation package starts with one of 
the best training programs in the industry, competitive wage package, 
bonus incentives, company paid health and dental insurance, and regular 
salary reviews. 
If you like working in the restaurant industry and have a college background, then contact the Director of Management Recruiting at (502)423-1693 for an application Or send resume to: 
OSF International 
4300 Fence Place 
Louisville, KY 40241 


and is very dependable which is freshman I didn't expect to get kind of hard to come by in a very much playing time if any at freshman. She's been really all. So. I am very excited that I important this year." am in this position even though Brown echoed these senti­it is because of injuries. It's a 
ments saying, "It's good to have good time for me to prove 
her on the bench knowing that I myself." 
can substitute her in any situa­Powell and the rest of the 
tion she's very solid." squad will get their chance to Powell spoke about her continue their dominance and 
chance to contribute. "Being a perfection this weekend. 
"The Beat Tan Under the Sun" 
• Beds, Booths & Euros 
• 
Open 7 Days A Week 

• 
Convenient Boors 

• 
Student Discounts 


GUIHanlttd Stl&(action! 
256-9656 
Gtw! k Mdoo..n' NWK·MArr 
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
presented by Notre Dame Communications and Theatre 
631-7361 
"ASTONISHING' 
SUPREMELY ELOOUENT. PROFOUNDLY STARTUNG. THE TRIUMPH OF THE NEW YORK FILM FEsnVAL" 
-Janet Mu.lm. THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"****!
AMAGNIFICENTLY RESONANT FILM." 
Susan Srark, DfTROfT NEWS 
ANEW YORKER FilMS REI.!ASE C !99S liCW 'IOIIKE~ FI(I.!S. AU /llGHTS l!fSEff,'EO. 
FRIDAY, NOV 22 AND SATURDAY, NOV 23 
7:30 and 9:45 p.m. 
$2.00 http://www.nd.edu/-cothweb/wwwsnite.html 

I I L 
---------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

Friday, November 22, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 23 

CJu-u cg ul)2) Thanksgiving Baskets join the World Hunger Coalition on Monday, November 25 at Stepan Center All are Welcome!  
ND vs. U\SC Irishfest '96 Los A1-1geles Memol-"ial Coliseum Satul-"day, Novembel-" 30, 1996 BaV\ds, Food, Beve~ages aV\d FvtV\1 12 V\OOV\ 'til 4 p.m. Kickoff at 5 p.m. Admissio~-1 is Fl-"ee! Pic1-1ic Mel'\u: $6 (hambul-"ge~-" & sides) $8 (bbq chickel'\ & sides) ($8/$1 0 at the dool-") Exposition Blvd. 110 IRISHFEST '96 .. c ! 0 los Angeles ~ ~ ..e 0 Ill Memorial I -~ Q .CI..> COLISEUM ii: ca:z: Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd 110 Call (818)795-NDND to oV'deV' meal tickets oV' foV' moV'e il'1fo.  

• HOCKEY 
Irish leers seek consistency 
By CHARLEY GATES 
~polts Writer 
A storyline for a typical Notre Dame hockey game would go something like this: in the first period, play very sluggishly and spot the opposing team a lead; in the second period, start to come around and play a little morn aggressively; in the third pnriod, realize that the game is on the line and play extremely intnns1~ly. 
Sometimes this formula has worked for the Irish, as it did against Bowling Green earlier in the season. Sometimes it does not work. as it failed against Ferris State last Friday. 
In any event, playing consis­tently at a high level will be the main focus for the Boys of Winter when they hit the road this weekend to take on Bowling Green and Miami of Ohio in Central Collegiate Hockey League action. 
The Irish have already skated with each of these teams. On October 26, the Irish dropped a heartbreaker to Miami, 2-1, after Miami scored twice in the first two minutes of the third period. On November 2, Notre Dame won a wild, 7-5, shoot­out in which the lead changed hands three times in the third period. 
A strong start seems to be 
slipping out of the Irish's hands. They are in the midst of a los­ing streak, having dropped five of the past six games. 
"It's the mistakes that we re­peatedly make," said Coach Dave Poulin. "That worries me the most. We have to stop play­ing in bursts. We need to domi­nate the game for longer stretches." 
What did Poulin say to his team this week? 
"Basically that he needed more out of us," stated junior captain Steve Noble. "He said that we need to dominate the game for 60 minutes and that we need to play a full game." 
Consistency is indeed what this young team seeks. To ac­complish this, the Irish "returned to the fundamentals this week in practice," said freshman center Ben Simon. "We worked on our stops and starts in skating and just went over the basics." 
"We also made a few minor, technical changes on the power play," stated Noble. 
A big piece in this consistency puzzle lies in the players' men­tal states. "I think that a lot of it is psychological," agreed Noble. "Everyone just needs to come mentally prepared to 


SKALCOHOLI KS 
(7 PIECE CAMPUS BAND WITH HORNS) 
PRESENTS 
BRING A PARENT PARTY 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22 
Doou open 9 p.m. -2 Dance Floou 
18 AND OVER WITH COLLEGE ID-BRING A PARENT AND SAVE $2.00 WITH THIS AD BEFORE 11 PM FRIDAY. 
For the Best Selection of Comic Books from the 1960's to Present, swing into 
ALL-STAR COMICS & CARDS 417 E. McKinley • Mishawaka (219} 258-4388 
.. ~ Open 11:00 -6:00 Mon.-Sat. 6 
i 
1:
,..
.. 
.. 
,...

Ufe also feature: .. < 
; ~ 

• Sports Cards z 
~ 
..

• Non-Sports " 1: ~ 
.. 
c
;a

Cards 0 
,..
,...

• Magic: ,... ~ 
.. 

The Gathering ~ c; 
..
..
..
..
.. 
..< 
" 

Over 20,000 Back-Issue Comics in Stock 
play. We also need to be a little more aggressive out there, but again, a lot of that is mental." 
"Guys need to show up to play, that's all," said Simon. 
This is a critical weekend for the hockey team, with four points in the CCHA standings hanging in the balance. 
"We'd obviously love to win both games," said sophomore defenseman Benoit Cotnoir, "but we'd be happy with a split." 
The future looks very bright, but now they need to play con­sistently smart and intensely. 
-
Friday, November 22, 1996

page 24 The Observer· SPORTS 
-....., 
... Hoops 
continued from page 28 
coach .John MacLeod appraised. "We'v1~ gained a great deal of experii'Ilr<'; we've learned that this tnam has excellent chem­istry and a feel for each other, and that they care for each other which goes a long way in really pm·forming like a team. 
"Of all the games, this is a team game. and the better the team plays, the more unselfish they are and the more times the ball goes to the open man. The more times you help your team­mate when he's in trouble, that embodies team play. 
"That's what this team docs." 
Senior center Matt Gotsch, slated to start in this Sunday's season opener against Monmouth, is pleased with the change from last season to the present. 
"With four seniors returning, we have a lot of people who are leaders. It's also going to help this year that our offense isn't going to have a single focus on one guy; we're going to play much more as a team," Gotsch predicted. 
The difference between the two seasons may be in a single position change: from Doug Gottlieb to Admore White at point guard. 
"Admore is doing a great job thus far. he's really getting ev­eryone on the floor involved in the offense. Losing Doug is not a problem; there's a much bet­ter team attitude this season," the center said. 
The starting back court will feature White at the point and fellow senior Pete Miller at shooting guard.
-
Miller returned to the squad earlier this year after receiving a scholarship formerly held by Keith Kurowski, who was forced to leave the squad due to mmlical problems. 
The two-guard's main weapon is not offensive prowess, but tight defense. He also moves well without the ball, forcing opponents to stay whieh prevents double-teaming inside . 
"Pete Miller is a special play­er. lie puts it all on the court, stays focused, and is a true competitor," MacLeod said. 
Joining Gotsch in the back­court are juniors Pat Garrity and Derek Manner. Garrity has been the focal point on offense for the Irish the past two sea­sons. Despite drawing regular double-teams, the power for­ward puts points on the board consistently. 
"Pat is a natural scorer," Gotsch said. "lie's still going to score a lot of points, but he plays team ball and is unselfish. We're still going to look to him to score, and he's going to look to us to help him out." 
Part of helping out Garrity will be to prevent him from having to face multiple defend­ers with regularity. 
The Irish will run a motion o!Tense again this season which hopefully will force opponents to respect Garrity's ability to feed the open man cutting into the lane. 
"We want Garrity to score, but we want others to score, too. The best offense is a bal­anced attack," MacLeod o!Tered. 
Manner's role at small for­ward will include both having to defend several conference athletes while trying to spark the offense and keep the focus off Garrity. 
He will split time at the posi­tion with sophomore Gary Bell, sidelined at the present time with a sprained ankle. 
"We had Gary Bell slated into a starting spot until he sprained his ankle; he's been out for four weeks now, and he's just start­ed doing some limited running. It's hard to say when he'll be back," MacLeod said. 
The freshmen are also ex­pected to see playing time this season. The most likely candi­dates are Keith Friel at point guard and David Lalazarian at small forward. 
Both have the ability to put 
EARN 
points on the board, and will have to play bigger roles due to injuries and Jack of experienced depth at their respective posi­tions. 
MacLeod wants to put a strong emphasis on smart deci­sions on the court. 
"One of the big keys (we've concentrated on) is putting a value on the basketball," MacLeod explained. 
"We want to remember how important (the ball) is, and not just crank a 20-footer or throw an errant pass. We have a long way to go, but we're learning." 
The schedule features non-
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used b<X1ks bought and sold 

• 
25,000 Hardback & Paperback 


books in stock •Out-of-Print Search Service:$2.00 
•Appraisals large and small 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. WayneSouth Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
EXTRA 
AFFORDABLE 
LUXURY 
1, 2, & 3 
BEDROOM 1\PARTMENTS 
To MES 
from $405 to $595 • gas ileat • wasiler and dryer • pools • mini blinds • fitness center • clubilouse • covered parking • and more... 
INDIAN SPRINGS 
272-5011 
Located only 4 miles off campus 
Mon.-Fri. 9-6 p.m. Sat 9-5 p.m. 
WHILE YOU LEARN 

Without losing valuable study and social time! 
Varsity Clubs of America, South Bend Chapter, offers ... Notre Dame students a quick and easy way to earn extra cash. 
If you think your parents or a family friend may be 
interested in exploring the benefits of vacation ownership 
at Michiana's deluxe all-suite hotel, you may be eligible to 
earn $500! 
The next time you have visitors, stop by VCA at the corner of Main and Edison in Mishawaka to see what we have to offer. 
For more information, contact Dennis Morrissey, Notre Dame Class of '93, at Varsity Clubs of America, 277-0500. 
conference opponents before the new year. with the excep­tion of a game at Providence in early December. 
Although the talent levnl of the team is still below the pow­erhouses of the conference, the team has gotten more physical and is counting on experience to help them through. 
The game against Monmouth may be an interesting contest. The squad returns four starters from a 20-10 record last year. Although Monmouth advanced to the NCAA tournament last season, earning a bid after win­ning the NortlH~ast Conf(~renee. they do not feature !wight or size. 
"They play a zone off1~nse, and we think we can capitalize on some holes to get our scor­ing going." 
Notre Damn must implnment and adhere to a game plan, es­pecially for their first game of the regular season, to open th11 schndule with a win. 
"This is the hardest working group we've had sinee '91-'92," MacLeod judged. 
They'll need to work hard. There's a tough road ahead of them. 


u.s. 31/33 North at Darden One mile north of campus 
Monday through Saturday 9:00 to 9:00 Sunday 12:00 to 5:00 
Rediscover North Village Mall For "One Stop Shopping" 

Co66festone
MAJEe~·s~ 

:JU;&rist ~ 
·:,~ 

Custom jewelry 
o/i([age Crfljters
Hallmark Cards 

designssince 1975.
Gifts/Collectables 
Full Service Florist

Repairs done on
Books • Newspapers 
premises. 
& Handcrafted Gifts
Magazines 
for All Occasions 
171-17-40

177-1515
277·1181 


A.L 


Really
EVE'S 
VIDEO 
Poppin
.LJii. ·­
tr 

~ 
Soup & Sandwich Shop Haircuts only $7.00 
7 Movies 
"Poppin Fruh"

7Days 
• popcorll
Tanning Salon 

$7.00 
• cheese-corn
No Appointment 

Players Available 
• CllllllCicom
Necessary 271·9980 
17J.l777

171·9187 
COUNTRY

f!;~IJ:!IIf;~ 
Gameworld

COLLECTABLES 
Serving 6" & foot 

Sportscards 
Test your skills 

long sub sandwiches on whole wheat or 
Non-Sportscards 
on the latest and Italian bread. 
Die Cast Cars 
most popular Each sandwich can be 
VIDEO GAMES

College Sweatshirts 
served as a salad. 

(Neo-Geos .t Pinballs) 177-1014 
177·3010 
~·re sat\1­

JMiiT_!!qJI Cl)ixieCream 
Donuts 
Ciyde's

Professional Men's & Broaated Chicken 
Ladies' Alterations 
"Melt in your mouth 
Only The S.etl

Experienced Fitting 
goodness • 'Crllrpy on the OW/de. 
211·1114 
juicy on th• inlk». • 
r.,tfwlf 
177-1711
E'A ,,, 

177·17:&:& 

271· I"ArA (7172) :&71-5638
271·7886 

rlolmr .. 
!J{p.i[Care 
VILLAOII LNmll'IO 
BINUtlful Natu.-.1 I.Doklng Nalla Mlchlana'• Fnorite 
Natures Nutrients

• Seulpturwd • Manc;ure 
•

• Gel Nil •Pedalnt 
Vitamins ~IL • Sik, linen Wrap 
Banquet Faclllty 
Minerals
S<..ina fO< so ·600 c.tenng Available 

~~r •H.IIIM,DMign 
iD 
Hislorically Used Herbs 272-8180 
271-3663

173-8535 
~----------' 

KRIS'S 

1
..
1SIGNAL TRAVEL
& TOURS, INC.
KOUNTRY 
KITCHEN 
~ ~ 
American Express
Cinnamon Rolls 

Serving 
Travel Service
Cookies 

North Village Mall 
Representative

Breads • Party Trays 
North Store 
Special Orders 

Dine·in seating 
Locally-Owned business serving Michiana For over 20 Years 
Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS 
couple of tough losses this sea­son. They succumbed to North

Do01ers 
Carolina and just a couple of weeks ago, the Badgers lost to

continued from page 28 
University of Indiana in the Big of eompetition," said senior 
Ten championships. captain Cindy Daws about this 
"One of the things that we have improved on is maturity,"

weekend's contest. Both teams have matured 
said Wisconsin head coach since their first eneounter this 
Dean Duerst. "We have lost season. The Badgers suffered a some games since we first 

played them. We had a loss to North Carolina and to the University of Indiana loss. The losses taught us that we are human. These losses give us a chance to go in with a great attitude and upset them." 
Wisconsin will provide a chal­lenge for Notre Dame, just like they did in September. The Badgers feel that they are ready for the Irish, and they have been preparing for them all week. 
"The key is to shut down the attack," said Duerst about his team's game plan. "In order to do that we have to stop wing play, challenge everything that they serve into the box. It will take a great defensive effort from us." 
The key for the Irish will be to 
maintain the style that has got­
ten them this far. "We are a lot 
better at scoring goals," said 
Petrucelli about the difference 
in the squad now compared to 
earlier in the season. "In that 
game we had a lot of chances 
that we did not finish. Now we 
can finish them." 
"Physicalness will be a big 
key," said sophomore Shannon 
Boxx about the keys to a victo­
ry. "We need to go out there 
and work hard and get it done." 
In postseason play, the team 
has seen the reserves take an 
increased role in the offensive 

• ''I Voted for Lou!'' • 
Bumper Stickers Available at LaFortune Information Desk. Proceeds to benefit Ara Parseghian Medical Foundation for Niemann-Pick research. 
Bumper Stickers are available for adonation of $3.00 each or two for $5.00. Please make checks payable to "ND MBA Alumni Association." 
SPONSORED BY NOTRE DAME MBA ALUMNI 
You can be a part of an important clinical research study. 
Do you have Asthma? 
You may be eligible to participate in a medical research study which will provide: 
FREE CLINIC VISITS/ PHYSICAL EXAMS FREE STUDY MEDICATION FREE LABORATORY TESTS/ LUNG FUNCTION TESTS & MODEST FINANCIAL COMPENSATION (Up to $4oo.00) 
To be eligible to participate, you must be between the ages of 12 and 70 years old have a diagnosis of asthma. 
Heal.tn1:(,Advance 
Instttute \ 



and defensive games. Freshman Jenny Heft has sparked the offense in the past two postseason games. In the last game against Villanova, Heft registered a hat trick. She is only the second player in Notre Dame history to accom­plish such a feat. 
"We've got a twelfth starter in Jenny," said Petrucelli. "She gives us a different look, be­cause she is faster than any other forward, that makes her speed a threat." 
Sophomore Laura Vanderberg has also sparked the Irish offense. She provide strength on the wing, with her speed and her skills. 

"Not everybody can play a 100%," said Daws. "Laura's speed and one-on-one made a big impact." 
By defeating the Badgers, the Irish will be one step closer to Santa Clara and reclaiming the National Championship. 
Wo01en 
continued from page 28 
knocked down a hook shot to tie the score. The play sparked a 15-6 Irish run, and suddenly the Irish were nine. Notre Dame frosted the cake by hit­ting nine of 11 free throws in the second half 
"We proved that we're capa­ble of beating the top-ranked teams," Gaither insisted. "Coach McGraw just put us in the right mind frame, but we can still improve." 
"We upset two ranked teams this week, so we feel pretty good about the start to our sea­son," MacGraw said. 
Gaither and Co. will hit the road again tomorrow when they take on Bowling Green. in a 1:30 tipoff. 
ASSOCIATION 
HaPPY 21st Birthday 
Larry WardII 
You've come a long way, Baby!! 
page 25 

cf)0LO'-nne~ @) Yl.P~o.L 
Welcome 
Pafl'e!-lts 
•La..-gest selection ofF..-esh-cut 
l"oses *Daily delive..-y to campus *Student discount *Located on co..-ne..-of t.dison 
and J..-onwood *.All majo..-c.-edit ca..-ds accepted 
800-224-4695 • 288-7551 
-




page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 22, 1996 
..... 
MICHIANA'S #1 SPORTING, . S}'QRE 
Home o~ the 6,000 Galltp~u~'I:;~iuium 
to-back Division Ill cham­season. pionships. In previous matchups with

NCAA 
When asked if there would be Top 10 opponents, Notre Dame a 2-1 lead in overtime. St. the big contest, then the Irish John's was able to salvage the will be in it to the very end. tie though, on a fluke goal with If they can take their "one less than 10 seconds remaining. game at a time" philosophy, 

The team knows that this and alter it just a bit, it would weekend's game will not be not be surprising to see the easy. Blue and Gold prevail, one play 
But that's no excuse for the at a time. Irish to back down now. Just ask Capasso. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS

"I think it's easy not be satis­fied (with just the Big East Championship)," explained the 
Bookstore Basketball ­senior midlielder. 
Appli(~ations for Bookstore "It's not going to mean all 
Commissioner can be picked that much if we go out in the 
up in the Student first round." 
Government office. They are If Capasso's attitude is an ac­
due by Wndnesday the 27th. curate reflection of the rest of 
Call Will at 273-8384. the team's mindset heading into 
When the Great American Dream isn't great enough 
Have you considered 
THE HOLY CROSS CANDIDATE YEAR? 
A one-year program at Moreau Seminary at the University of Notre Dame for college graduates interested in exploring the possibility of a lifetime of service as a Holy Cross priest or brother. Scholarship assistance is available. 
Call or write for information: Fr. John Conley, C.S.C. Fr. Patrick Neary. C.S.C. Congregation of Holy Cross Box 541, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 63 I -6385 
continued from page 28 
earned Notre Dame its third invitation to the "Big Dance" in the last four years. 
"We kind of dipped a little bit at the end of tlw snason," ac­knowledged captain Tony Capasso. 
"Wn've had some ups and downs," agn~ed Irish head coach Mike Bertieelli. "A cou­pln of lossns can (often) bring you together (as a team)." 
TIH1 Irish certainly are to­getlwr at this point in time, as t!H)Y find the mse Ives in the midst of' a three-game winning strPak. just three wins away from a trip to the Final Four in Hichmond. VA. 
Notn1 Dame's first tourna­nwnt challenge is a big one. On Sunday, the Irish will find themselves in Greensboro, N.C. facing tlw No. 3 seed Spartans. Tlw matchup is an intriguing one. rngardlcss of the fact that UNC-Greensboro is actually the second-ranked team in the country. and that they own the best regular season record in Division I at 21-1. 
For Berticelli. thn trip to Greensboro represents a return to the campus lw called home in l 982 and 1983 when he coached the Spartans to back-any extra significance if he were to beat Greensboro on Sunday, Berticelli replied, "Anything like that would be selfish on my part. I want to win. but I don't care who it's against. It was also 13 years ago. It's not like I'm returning to face them after two years." 
The Irish coach is definitely right about one thing. He is not facing the 1985 UNC­Greensboro Spartans. 
In fact, Greensboro will be the highest ranked opponent that the Irish have faced this 
Sophomore Ben Bocklage and his Irish teammates return to the NCAA tournament this weekend when they hope to pull of an upset. 
is 1-1-1. They split a pair of games with Rutgers, taking the all-important Big East Championship game after drop­ping a late-season decision in New Jersey. 
The other big showdown took place way back on September 7, when the Irish surprised the Red Storm of St. John's, who were ranked No. 6 at the time, by holding them scoreless for the ninety minutes of regulation play. 
The Irish were still full of surprises though and ran out to 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 
AND 

Home of ANGLER'S INN REsTAURANT Invite you to visit one,of the finest outdoor stores in the country along with one of the best restaurants in Michiana. 
-Founded by Fran McCollester Striz. 1ST Class ofWomen -Class of 1977 Notre Dame. ,,_ 
~~ 

Angler's Inn features a vari­ety of food from 
uarium

Lunkerburgers (A 
full of

Notre Dame 
rophy

Favorite), Buffalo 
from

Burgers, Prime Rib, 
local waters.

Lake Perch, Alligator, BBQ Baby "•\h··
-
Back Ribs, Reubens, Frog Legs, • See LIVE SHARKS swim in our Homemade Breaded Pork Tenderloin, I ,000 Gallon Coral Reef Tank while Our Famous Fish Baskets, and Much you dine at Angler's Inn More! Restaurant. t You must SEE this sprawling store to BELIEVE it! Just 15 minutes from campus, straight North on State Road 23 -10 minutes past University Park 


Friday, November 22, 1996 The Observer • TODAY CREAM O'THE VALLEY ROAD 
ED LEADER 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM SCOTT ADAMS 

C.LU c.<1.P 
c.•tf' c.'-"t~ cc..:tP THE SOUND MAKES YOU Mt>.DE M£. CR.Al..Y, BOT l '{OUR OWN CAN'T COMPLAIN SCI\E.EN BECAUSE lT WOULD ~~V£.1\? SOUND SILLY. 
page 27 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Your freedom-loving personality attracts new admirers. Putting your original ideas on paper could lead to an exciting business proposition. A generous advance gives you the leisure to pursue a pet project or hobby. 1997 ushers in both romance and overseas travel. Exposure to another culture broadens your out­look on life. Family connections will take on new meaning when a crisis arises. Consult professionals regarding your options. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: tennis great Billie Jean King, actress Jamie Lee Curtis, comedian Rodney Dangerfield, actress Geraldine Page. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get involved in community affairs. Become a Big Sister or Big Brother or help feed the homeless. A parent­child relationship shows steady improvement. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A change of attitude or greater finesse is the key to success. Seek the advice of experienced people. With effort and patience, you will eventu­ally reach the executive suite. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You need to watch your step now. Say "no" to under-the-table business deals. Keep everything strictly aboveboard. Adopt a more funda­mental approach to life. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Concentrate on the real world, revis­ing your priorities if necessary. Research the latest trends in your field. Dedication to home and family will lead to a lifetime of happiness. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Get more rest if hoping to dodge colds and the flu. Your need for periods of solitude may puzzle your mate. Do your best to explain1 Complete your work at the office, then relax. at home. 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your associates come to your defense. Reward them in a tangible way. Use jointly owned resources responsibly. A first impression is right on target. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Act confident about the future. Progress is seen in almost every area of your life. Promote harmony at home by doing your fair share of the work. A loved one will soon return home. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): The day gets off to a fast start. If something is bugging you. discuss it. Check on the status of your invest­ments. It may be time to consult another stockbroker or accountant. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your career sails along nicely. Be willing to share the glory with deserving subordinates. New alliances are favored. Give a novice a chance. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put your credit cards away and curb spending. Others will like you better if you stop taking everything so seriously. Investigate yoga as a way to reduce stress. Romance with a new partner looks blissful. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Go along with your partner's desire for adventure. A caring. nurturing approach will help resolve a parent­child conflict. Do more listening than talking when dealing with teen­agers. Times have changed more than you know. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take advantage of a special opportu­nity. Financial breaks are likely, but only if you go after them. Loved ones appreciate your efforts to cre­ate a more harmonious atmosphere at home. Be willing to make changes. 
CROSSWORD 
1 Lilliputian 
Broadway hit, 62 Sources of
6 "Delirious" 
1980-82 plumes
co-star. 1991 
35 Itinerary word 63 Butchers' 15 Where the 
36 Exceeded offerings
Gialan 
38 Drives insane 64Scalpers
International 
40 Onion bits? 65 Age and weight,
Airport is 
e.g.

41 One of a 
16 Drop-in? 
Chekhov trio 17 Attachment 
43 Gershwin hero 18 Owing money 44 Subject of a DOWN 19 Kind of china 1973 ban 
1 Questionable 21 Popular stuffed 45 It's in the "I" 
2 Member of

carnival prize column in bingo 
the familia

47 Crocus or
22 "Very well" 
3 Mount

freesia
23 Londoner's Aconcagua's
49 Primp
sour brew locale
50 Jacuzzi site
27 Pilgrimage 4 Creator of
53 Beats 
28 More icy, Lorelei Lee 
55 Entertainment
informally 5 Vic Tayback's
center 30 Dander 
sitcom co-star

57 Where one 31 Pa. hub draws the line? 
&Asthma sufferer's relief 7"Whew!" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE s "D.C. Cab" actor 9Word to a doctor 10 Part of an Army chant 
Hi-=-1-=-fl• .;;._,.=+-=+--+='-fill """"-=-+-'-+~-'-! 11 EnI ig htened Buddhist 12 Mancini masterpiece 13 Crumbling 14 "Blind tiger" 
1-=-j..:..:-ii-=-14.::. ·~:..~,;:...~,;.,:...'+'-~'-'-1-'~=-4 20 Ransom--Oids 1-'-i.:..:..j."'+"+.;,..j 24 Major mail ctr. ~.;:..j.~~;.~ 25 Inflatable camping item 
'1 
Puzzle by Frank Longo 
26 "General Hospital" regular Soter 
28---mo 29Censors 
31 Jeane Dixon, for 
one 32 Bring up, as an orphaned 
animal 
33 Nature guides? 
37 Land of poetry 
39 Family head? 
42 Teachers' advocate, for 
short 


Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


-

Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year 
•
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________ 
City----------State _____ Zip._______ 
46 Letters on a 
shoe box 48Raison-­50 Braga of "Kiss 
of the Spider Woman" 51 Word with dew or view 52 Squirrel away 
54 Windmill blade 56 Kind of canal sa Year in Fabian's 
papacy 59 Everyday article 60 Burns's "-­
the Water to Charlie" 

SPORTS Weekend 
page 28 Friday, November 22, 1996 
• BASKETBAll 
Irish Hoopsters looking to build on preseason· 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ SportS Writer 
A sequel is in the making for the Wisconsin Badgers. The Badgers are finding themselves in the same predicament as they did last year. In tlwir fourth consecutive NCM bid, they will once again meet a hot Irish team in the second round for the seeond year 
-
in a row. Last year, Notre Dame dis­missed Wiseonsin, 5-0. ''I'm sure they are coming in hun­gry," said Irish head coaeh Chris 

Petrucelli, "But so are we." 
Earlier this season, the two teams met in a heated battle. It was a physi­cal matchup with lots of fouls. The Badger offense would not allow them­selves to be silenced, and constantly plagued the Irish defense. Notre Dame's defense has been the founda­tion for the team, and held their ground in the contest. The Badgers eould not shutdown the Irish attack, and the Irish come out victorious, 3-1. 
"They are physical team," said Petrucelli about Wisconsin, "Also they 


are an athletic team. In our last game, their idea was to disrupt our rhythm by fouling." 
The team is ready for a

• physical game after .play­ing the University of Indiana, last weekend. The Irish managed to weathr.r the blows of the Hoosiers, and hold on for the 8-1 victory. The gamr. was highlighted by the large number of fouls called, and Irish junior Holly Manthei received a yellow card, along with a Hoosier player. 
"It is a game we will enjoy because or the level 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Wisconsin will have their hands full with Cindy Daws . see DOMERS/ page 25 
.. 
vs. Rutgers, ~ November 23, 12:30 p.m. 
~ 
~ w vs. Wisconsin, November 24, I p.m. 
~
~.'­

.. 
(.., 
at UNC-Grensboro, 
S~¢
November 24 
-
Big East Tournament, @) November 23-24 
S¢ 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Sports Writer 
One game at a time. 

That has been the philosophy of the men's soccer team from the outset of the 1996 campaign. So far, all that their simple approach has gotten them is a 10-6-2 regular season record, a third place finish in the conference standings, a Big East post-season championship, and a berth in the NCCA tournament. 
Not bad for a squad that suffered multiple injuries to key players and was forced to rely on the services a large number of freshmen and sopho­mores from the opening game of the year to the regular season finale. 

It seems that ever since the Irish began the season with a conference win on the road at Providenee (where­as last year's team was winless away from home}. they have been able to pick their spots and step up their level of play whenever they need it most. 
This ability was clearly displayed when Notre Dame dropped four of its final five games of the season, includ­ing three losses against conference foes, only to come roaring baek to tear through the compotition in tho Big East Championship tournament. Their performance at Hutgers last weekend 
see NCAA/ page 26 

Captain Tony Capasso hopes to fend off the second ranked team in the nation. 
at Bowling Green, Today, 7 p.m. 


•Volleyball in Big East tournament 
NCAA Tournament, TBA see page 22 
Basketball at Kalamazoo 

•Weekend Hockey preview 
November 23, 6 p.m. 


see page 23 Swimming at Wabash lnv. November 23, I0:30a.m. 






