
Tuesday, November 5, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 46 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Senate votes to accept student rights resolution 
Group 'deplores' Kirks free speech regulation 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate voted yesterday to accept a resolution deploring "[Assistant Vice President of Residence Life William Kirk's] attempt to regulate the free speech of members of the University community such as the College Democrats of Notre Dame, a recognized student organization, based on its con­tent and purpose." 
The resolution cited the student demonstrations clause on page 69 of Du Lac that the Senate considers as evi­dence that the Office of Residence Life does not have the authority to refuse approval of a demonstration by a recog­nized student organization. 
It also called for the end to what the Senate sees as "the University administration's efforts to censor the free speech of any member of the University community." 
"I am very pleased that the Student Senate recognizes the importance of student rights," said Catherine Mullaly, president of the College Democrats, "I hope that the support of the HPC and the Senate can prevent such abuses from hap­pening again." 
Due to the fact that the Office of Residence Life has not received a copy of the resolution, Bill Kirk has no comment. 
The Senate passed the resolution on an 11 to six vote. They also passed a resolution by unanimous consent establishing a Faculty Senate Representative. The repre­sentative, according to the resolu­tion, would foster, "a continuing dia­logue between the students and the faculty. 



Americans flock to watch game 
Irish welcome visitors, know little of football 
By CAROLINE BLUM Saint Mary's Editor 
Imagine 55,000 foreigners arriving in South Bend for a soceer game at Notre Dame Stadium. Crowding into South Bend bars, restaurants, and tourist spots, they invade Grape Road by the hundreds. 
This was the scene in Dublin last weekend. For three days, Americans overtook the city ­shopping, walking, and cele­brating in honor of a sport Dubliners know little about. 
"This is unbelievable," a Dublin taxi driver muttered, while transporting yet another carload of Notre Dame fans to the Hoyal Dublin Society (RDS), the sight of the pre-game pep rally. 
"Look at all the Americans," 
he said pointing at the crowd­
ed streets. ''I've never seen 
anything like it." 
A week ago, he knew nothing about American football. 

\ Iris 


Friday night he found himself asking, "Are you for Navy or Notre Dame? I like Notre Dame because they're 'The Fighting Irish."' 
Outside the RDS, fans from Notre Dame and Navy pushed their way into the hall for the pep rally. When the RDS neared maximum capacity, guards barred the front gates, refusing admittance to the remaining 200 fans outside. 
"I want to talk to someone from the Notre Dame Alumni Association immediately," one angry fan demanded. "I paid my money for this package, and I deserve to be let in." 
Verbal disputes developed into pushing matches between guards and desperate fans and later spreading to mass hyste­ria. Secure inside, representa­tives from each team spoke about the pride and privilege they felt by commemorating the first Notre Dame in Ireland. 
A gallery of Irish shops inside the RDS sold Guinness, tastes of whiskey, and other traditional Irish fare. Favored for its Irish crystal footballs engraved with the Notre Dame and Navy Seals, an Irish Crystal booth won the most attention. 
"They're going to engrave mine with my wife and kids' names," 1967 alumni Stan O'Grady said. 
After the rally, Americans stormed the streets again, crowding into pubs around the RDS and Temple Bar area. On Saturday morning fans could .be found walking along the famous O'Connell Street in Dublin. 
Lost without the customary field of tailgating RVs, fans took to the Irish pubs, drinking Budweiser and sharing predic­tions about the game. 
As game time drew near, 
fans paraded through the 
streets to the stadium, cheer­
ing and waving flags. Irish res­
idents stood on their porches 
see IRELAND I page 4 
• NEWS ANALYSIS 


SMC parties take final shots before big day 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Editor 
It was a night that began as a presentation of platform issues concentrated around today's presidential election, and eventually evolved into a political blame-game between supporters of incumbent Bill Clinton and GOP Candidate Bob Dole. 
A typical night in Election '96. 
On the eve of election day, the Political Science Club at Saint Mary's College sponsored its 1996 Student/Faculty Mock Presidential Debate -an elec­tion-year tradition in the department. 
Moderated by associate pro­fessor of political science Patrick Pierce and senior polit­ical science major Laura Grendahl, the debates allowed questions from a faculty panel, after which the floor was opened to the audience. 
Siding with Dole was history professor emeritus Charles Poinsatte and students Jessica Zigniond and Kelly Witka. Representing Clinton were assistant professor of political science Marc Belanger and students Kim Melvin and Sara Pluta. 
Addressing the four-member faculty panel's concerns on issues of welfare reform, tax policy, health care, and U.S. involvement in the Bosnian conflict, panelists responded with the candidate's platform issues. 
However, the less formal atmosphere provided by the open-questioning of the debate brought about the chance to rebut the opponent's position, along with addressing such issues including education, credibility, race relations and character. 
And, in light of Dole's posi­tion as former majority leader of the predominately Republican 104th Congress, providing a check to Clinton's 
see DEBATE I page 4 


Cengia diagnosed with stomach cancer 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Sports Editor 
The good feeling surround· ing the Notre Dame football program after The Shamrock Classic was dealt a severe blow yesterday when the team learned that junior placekick­er Scott Cengia has been diag­nosed with stomach cancer. 
After being informed of Cengia's condition by special teams coach Kirk Doll, Irish head coach Lou Holtz called the team together and informed them of the situation after practice. 
The Observer learned late last evening that the Melbourne, Fla., native will take a medical leave of absence from the University and return home to seek fur­ther examination and treat­ment. 
Cengia, who came to Notre Dame as a walk-on, was awarded a scholarship by Holtz at the start of the 1996 season. He began the season as the team's top placekicker. 
Cengia did not make the trip to Ireland. 

The Observer/Rob Finch 
Americans and natives alike hurry through the streets of Dublin last weekend. Although the Irish knew lit­tle of the game that visitors came to watch, they welcomed the foreigners into the city's pubs and shops. 
~~ ~ --~----~-­

0-----­

~ -----·-~--------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, November 5, 1996 

•INSIDE COLUMN 

Questions to think about 
Today, we decide the future of America. We will select the individual who will represent us for the next four years, who we will depend on to lead our nation, who we will turn to in times of crisis, who will -------­
take us into the 21st cen-Maureen Hurley tury. As you cast you Associate News Editor ballot today or send off your absentee ballot, think to yourself: what qualities do you look for in a leader? 
Would you look for someone with high moral standards? Someone who is willing to stand up for what he believes in? Someone whose actions do not stray from what they proclaim to believe in? Someone who people can look to as an upstanding role model? 
Why then, has character not been a perva­sive and determining issue in this year's elec­tion'? Would you choose someone as your business partner if you didn't trust them? 
Consider this then. If you had to choose a business partner. who would you choose Bill Clinton or Bob Dole? Who would you trust? Uon't we need to trust the individual we place in the position of Chief of State, Chief Executive, Chief Diplomat, Commander-in­Chief and Chief Legislator? 
No president in history has more allega­tions, investigations or legal actions racked up against him than incumbent Bill Clinton. 
Are we to just assume that these numerous and seemingly unrelated charges are mere coincidences or possibly a Republican con­spiracy against him? 
The thought is absolutely outrageous. The worst thing is that Clinton does not deny the allegations. Bather, he postpones answering them directly. He is simply "too busy" to answer questions and gives weak excuses such as "presidential pardon." Sheer reason tells us that Bill and Hillary Clinton are in hot water. Yet Clinton still maintains a lead in today's race, as evidenced by the week's opin­ion polls. 
Uo we, as a nation, want an individual with such a shady reputation to continue to be the representative of our nation? How have we allowed this to happen? What has happened to America? 
Will Bill Clinton have the fortitude to stand up for what the American people believe in when he doesn't have the treat of a looming reelection? Or will his second term in office be a self-serving conglomeration of policies and actions to advance their own personal agendas? 
If character is not an issue. why do we tell legends of Honest Abe and George Washington chopping down the cherry tree? If truth isn't important, then why does every journalism major hold Woodward and Bernstein in such high regard. following their exposure of Watergate? If our nation frowns on hypocrisy, how can we possibly allow a man who says one thing and then does anoth­er determine future legislation? 
tn· a day and age where party lines are blurred, and Democrats sound like Hepublicans and vice versa, what else can we judge a candidate on but our faith in them? 
When you mark your ballots today, you sig­nify your faith in an individual. You place an enormous amount of power in his or her hands. If you don't believe that character. values, moral standards or the value of truth matters in decision-making, then you can rest easy in casting your vote for Bill Clinton. 
Otherwise, follow your instincts, and vote for who you can really trust. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  lOOAY'S StAFF  
News Michelle Krupa Saskia Sidenfaden Sports Brian Reinthaler Viewpoint Ethan Hayward Lab Tech  Production Michelle Krupa Chris Uhart Accent Melanie Waters Graphics Peter Cilella  

• WORlD AT A GLANCE 
Zaire rebels declare unilateral cease-fire 
KIGALI, Rwanda 

With the international community threatening to inter­vene, Zairian Tutsi rebels declared a cease-fire Monday in eastern Zaire and agreed to allow aid agencies to try to get llutu refugees home to Burundi and Rwanda. 
Fighting between Tutsi-led rebels and Zairian troops has forced hundreds of thousands of refugees to flee their U.N. camps, venturing deeper into Zaire and far­ther from the reach of aid workers. Diplomats and aid groups met Monday in two African capital to discuss what to do next. 
The. recent cross-border warfare began three weeks ago, choking off road and air routes for emergency food into the region and pushing aid workers last week to evacuate. 
In a statement read on British Broadcasting Corp. radio, Tutsi spokesman Laurent Kabila said the cease­lire took effect Monday morning. "We declare a unilater­al cease-fire starting immediately for three weeks," Kabila said. 
In Hwanda, news came that the capital of eastern Zaire, Goma, was quiet after four days of gun and mor­tar lire. 
The 1.2 million refugees have destabilized the lakes region along Zaire's border with Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda, spreading political and ethnic lighting. 
Report: King of Pop is pop-to-be 
LOS ANGELES It's a thriller, all right: Michael 
r·.

Jackson's longtime friend is pregnant with his child. And contrary to a tabloid report, there were no test tubes involved and she's not getting 
r-· paid, the pop superstar said Monday. "I am thrilled that I will soon be a \~ father and am looking forward, with . ' ~. great anticipation, to having this child," Jackson said in a statement. "This is my dream come true." The mother is Debbie Rowe. a 37-year-old divorced nurse who has been a friend for 15 years, according to the statement released by Christine Holevas, Jackson's spokeswoman. Holevas denied a Sunday report in the London tabloid News of the World that the baby was a product of artificial insemination and that she was being paid $528,000 to have it. "The reports speculating that Ms. Howe was artificially insem­inated, and that there is any economic relationship, are completely false and irresponsible," said the statement. "Michael regrets that the news of Debbie's pregnancy was accompanied by several false and distorted reports and speculations and urges the media to respect his and Debbie's privacy," the statement read. 
Booster problem forces launch delay 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
NASA postponed the launch of space shuttle Columbia for at least a week because of worrisome heat damage to insulation on a booster rocket used on an earlier flight. Columbia was supposed to blast off Friday on a 16-day science mission, but NASA on Monday delayed the flight until at least Nov. 15. Engineers are puzzled by an unusual amount of damage to nozzle insulation in one of the two solid-fuel booster rockets used to launch Atlantis in September. NASA said the Atlantis crew was in no danger, but engineers want to understand what hap­pened before flying Columbia. A leak of hot gas through a joint in a booster rocket caused Challenger to explode after liftoff in 1986. NASA has since been extremely cau­tious about any booster abnormalities. The five astro­nauts assigned to the Columbia mission will release and retrieve two satellites and conduct two spacewalks to 
practice space station construction. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
L  
Tuesday  ~  60  30  
Wednesday~  so  30  
Thursday  ~  so  31  
Friday  ~  so  31  
Saturday ~.;'t:-..A.._f···­ ~ ~A.. v  49  31  

Zaire update 
• Refugee camps Kltale -11 Kahindo • Route of
Tutsis are fighting to repel Zairian army attad<.s 
and to pus\\the Rwandan Hutu refugees furthef 
into Za1re. After capturing Bukavu earlier in the 

~:1K:bu~J~
week, they closed in Thursday on Goma. 
~\:_ ,; airport and pushed Zairian forces to the edge ZAIRE ·'.fJ:L ., of the city. More than 130 foreign workers fled ~<ia¥ the border city to neighboring Rwanda. Fighting 
Goma: Rebel Tutsis captured astrategic 
~/
in the area also forced foreign aid workers and f 
journalists to evacuate and sniper fire j 
prevented them from going bed\ in. .J 
~~ Lake
With an estimated 600,000 refugees Route of •J , , Kivu currently on the run the situation threatens refugees I· · ' , 
to match the 1994 crisis ? ." ·. Kht,e thousands died due to lack of food, water and 


-:vy
medicine. I 
The Mugunga refugee 
:~-RWANDA
.
camp, already swollen 
.. with new arrivals to eCyangugu 10 miles 400,000, making it the ,''-'" ­
largest in the world, might .·: /'::-:t 10 km be forced to receive I I • ·, BURUNDI) another 200,000. • • a-Kamaoyola · 
.,_--.. 
Soldier commits suicide in prison 
FHEETOWN, Sierra Leone 
A soldier killed himself while being questioned about his alleged complicity in a coup plot, the army said Monday. The soldier's father said he suspected his son was tortured. An army spokesman said Staff Sgt. Lamin Kamara jumped from the second floor while being inter­rogated Oct. 30. He had been arrested earlier that day. Kamara's relatives doubted the official account. "If my son was not tortured unbearably, why then did it take four days for the body to be shown to me?" asked his father, Army Sgt. Maj. Alie Kamara. He said police were not called to investigate the death and authorities, in an effort to avoid an autopsy, took the body straight to a funeral home instead of to the government mortuary. "The family has demanded that a post-mortem be per­formed to determine the cause of death, and the military has agreed that a post-mortem will be performed tomor­row," the father said Monday. Information minister George Banda Thomas said the death would be investi­gated. Ahmed Tejan Kabbah's civilian government, which took over from a military regime in March, has been struggling to bring disgruntled soldiers into line, end a civil war, and lind housing for the one-third of the nation's 4.5 million people who are without homes. 
Former Nazi youth leader dead at 83 
BEHLIN 
Artur Axmann. the former leader of Hitler's youth organization and who claimed to have witnessed the Nazi leader's suicide, has died at age 83. Axmann died Oct. 24, Interior Ministry officials said Monday. The offi­cials gave no further details, but Saxony Zeitung, a newspaper in eastern Germany, reported that Axmann's family buried him in a private ceremony because it did not want to draw the attention of neo-Nazis. Axmann, who was born in Hagen in 1913. founded the first Nazi youth group in his home state of North-Hhine Westphalia in 1928. Hitler made him youth leader for the country in 1940. He became a Hitler disciple at the inception of the Nazi movement and was responsible for publishing the first Nazi propaganda, including "Mein Kampf," accord­ing to "Voices From The Bunker," a book by Pierre Galante and Eugene Silianoff. Axmann said he was was in the Berlin war bunker where Hitler killed himself. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 5. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
SAMCP 
Pressurs H L  6]  ESI  l:nJ  0  IZ3  G  -o  ~ L....i G  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS RAIN  T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  
VIol Assoc,.led Pruss  

Joe Stark 

q_Q,G_q~Q (f ~ u
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is puh(i,hed Monday through Friday 
Showers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
cx,cpt during exam and vacation p~riods. The Observer is a member of rhl· AsmdarC"d Press. All reproduction right~ arC" reserved. 
VIS Assoaated Press GraphicsNet 
Atlanta  72  55  Dallas  75  64  New Orleans 81  64  
Baltimore  63  44  Denver  43  26  New York  60 46  
Boston  55  42  Los Angeles 75  53  Oz  12  95  
Chicago  62  47  Miami  82  47  Portland, Ore.52  42  
Cincinnati  67  48  Milwaukee  54  45  St. Louis  64 46  

---~-------~----------------------~ 


Associated Press Writer 
President Clinton appealed for a second term Monday by taking credit for a revived economy and promising that if given four more years, "we'll be bet­ter off still." Battling the odds on election eve, Bob Dole countered that Electoralvote Popular vote Clinton faced mounting ~::';J~1 ~:!" ~:"10j'i ~!:~ 
he would not have to voters. hand his gavel over to Democrats come January. 
''I'm currently planning on what we'll do next year in the majority," Gingrich said as he campaigned back home in Georgia. 
Still, strategists in both parties said dozens of races were too close to predict on the final Monday of a campaign that was both a referendum on the incum­b e n t Democratic president and the Republican Congress. 
"There are going to be a lot of close races and that's just a fact," said 

Clinton Dole
Republican 
Medicare. 
"Seize the day to keep your country moving in the right direction," Clinton said in urging supporters to get to the polls Tuesday. "I have done all I can do. It is 
in your corner now." 
Electoral vote Popularvote 
:::.:;.~~~~ ~ ::::;,1~1 i&iir'~ 
ethical woes and declared: "America deserves better." 
Control of Congress was at stake, too, as Americans prepared to cast ballots in the last presidential election of the 1900s. Clinton had the upper hand in the race against Dole and Reform Party candidate H.oss Perot, while Republicans were favored to keep their House and Senate majorities. 
''I'm not optimistic on a national basis at all on the presidential race," said Florida Republican Chairman Tom Slade. "It truly would be a political miracle if Dole can pull this out." 
House Speaker Newt Tonight's electoral college vote will determine the next Gingrich, on the other presicfent of the United States. This week's last-minute push hand. voiced confidence brought candidates to states with higher numbers of electoral 
Dole, at 73, likely was asking for votes for the Ia s t ti rn e ' t0 0 ' wi n 0 r lose, closing out a politi­cal career that included 35 years in Congress, and a record 12 years as the Senate Republican leader. 
"I need your votes," Dole told a crowd in New Mexico as he raced through four time zones and six states in a final push that was ending at noon Tuesday back horne in Russell, Kan. "There's still time," he said. 
Even many of Dole's most loyal campaign aides weren't sure of that. A dozen states were considered tossups in the presidential race. But even if he won all of them, Dole would need to upset Clinton in California or in several Midwest states to win. 
The race tightened somewhat in the final days as Dole raised 

National The four Presidential hopefuls employed aggressive campaigning tactics to where, and catch voters' attention -and hopefully their votes. 
Committee appeared 
questions. about Clinton's role in questionable Democratic Party fund-raising from foreign interests. So he hammered that theme to the end. 
"I will not compromise ethics or violate the public trust," Dole said, keeping his remarks to a few min­utes at each stop because of a failing voice. "You can't Say that about the current administration.... If you 

want a full-time president who won't be going to hearings or trials or any­thing else, Bob Dole is your choice." 
Perot was run­ning a distant

Perot Browne 
third every-

Chairman Haley Barbour. Given that. the candidates were up early, or, in Dole's case, didn't bother sleeping at all. 
Clinton began in New Hampshire, once firm Republican territory but now part of the president's solid Northeast base. "We're one day away from victo­ry," Elaine Krasker told him inside a Manchester restaurant. 
"It's hard to believe, isn't it?" Clinton replied, at age 50 setting out confidently for the final day of what is likely to be his final political campaign. 
Later, in Cleveland, Clinton said the economy had created nearly 11 million jobs and the deficit had been cut by 60 percent since he took office. "We're better off than we were four years ago," Clinton said. 
He noted Dole's Senate opposition to the family leave law and said his Republican opponent wanted to abol­ish the Education Department and enact a "risky 
unlikely to match the 19 percent of the vote he received in 1992. His message echoed Dole's but didn't necessarily help the GOP challenger, who can't afford to lose anti­Clinton votes to Perot. 
"Our president, his wife and a number of associates face serious criminal charges," Perot told a Texas audience. "Would you allow a person with pending criminal charges to babysit your children?" 
It was unclear whether Perot was referring to the recent reports of questionable fund-raising or the so­called Whitewater investigation into business and political dealings when Clinton was Arkansas gover­nor. But there are no pending criminal charges against either the president or his wife. 
In addition, while the refrains from the White House hopefuls were familiar, election eve brought a sense of urgency to the delivery. It was much the same in hard­fought congressional contests. 
N
otre Dame and Saint Mary's students and fac­
ulty members registered to vote in St. Joeseph 
County can vote at Gate 8 of the Joyce Center on 
the Notre Dame campus, and at the Lillie O'Grady 
Center on the Saint Mary's Campus. 
All polls in Indiana are open from 6 a.m. to 6 
p.m. 
Last minute info... 
F
or information on presidential candidates' plat­forms and positions on the issues, visit the offi­cial horne pages at: Democratic candidate Bill Clinton: http://www .cg96.org Republican candidate Bob Dole: http://www.dole96.com Reform Party candidate Ross Perot: http:1/www.perot. org Libertarian candidate Harry Browne: http://www .harrybrowne96.org 

Tonight on campus 
T
he Student Union Board, in conjunction with the classes of 1997, 1998 and 1999, will spon­sor an election-night party in the Huddle as elec­tion returns come in. 
Refreshments will be provided. The event begins at 8 p.m. 


Preventing voter fraud 
INDIANAPOLIS 
D 
em ocr a tic and Republican party leaders said Monday they were taking steps to make sure elections would be won or lost legitimately and not through voter fraud or intimidation. Of Indiana's 3,484,033 legal voters, more than a quarter-977,221 -have registered or updated their registrations since Jan. 1, 1995. Only a frac­tion of the latter group-67,009, or about 7 per­cent -used the traditional way of registering, at county election or court clerk offices. "The motor voter law is so loose that there's potential for voter fraud," said Mike McDaniel, the Indiana Republican chairman. Democrats, however, said they were mustering a cadre of lawyers to counter what they said would be GOP efforts to keep voter turnout down in traditionally Democratic areas. 
• CONGRESS AT A GLANCE... 




AND SPAGHETII'S 
----~-­
Tuesday, November 5, 1996 

page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 




ND student nariled as contest finalist 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame student and Observer columnist H. Thomas Coyne has been named one of the ten finalists in the 1996 Thomas R. Keating Feature Writing Competition. To be eligible. contestants state­wide, all of whom attend Indiana colleges, each submit­ted three feature articles which were judged by a panel of working journalists. 
Those chosen as finalists will participate in an on-site writ­ing contest in Indianapolis Nov. 8-9. AJI competitors will be taken to a location some-
Ireland 
continued from page 1 
and watched in amazement while others joined the general cheer. 
"I flew to Dublin all the way from Australia for this game," native Dubliner John Murphy said. "I used to watch Notre Dame play on cable television. I love Notre Dame." 
Football fans celebrating the Notre Dame victory returned to the pubs for post-game cele­brations. Members of both the Notre Dame and Navy football teams made frequent appear-where in downtown Indianapolis of which they have no prior knowledge and given five hours to develop a story, travel to the Indianapolis Star newsroom, write the story and submit it on a disk to com­petition organizers .. 
Cash prizes totaling $3,000 will be presented to the winner judged the best overall, the best on-site story, and best showing by a student attending a Marion County College. 
All finalists will be recog­nized at a banquet the evening of Nov. 9 at The Indianapolis Press Club where awards will be presented. 
ances. 
"This entire bar is full of Americans." an Irish woman whispered loudly to the bar­tender. 
"They must be here for that American football match." 
Store owners in the Grafton Street area witnessed the same experience Sunday. as they were visited by Americans buy­ing a souvenir claddagh ring or Irish sweater. 
"I didn't expect to be busy today," the attendant at the Woolen Mills Store told an impatient customer. "Usually on Sundays I am dozing off. So are you from Notre Dame or Navy?" 

Debate 
continued from page 1 
role as Chief Executive Officer, there was plenty of room for blaming the opposing party for government gridlock. 
Referring to Clinton's efforts towards universal health care as an example, Pluta said the Republican Congress impeded Clinton's "commitment to pro­tect and expand the availability of health care," which she described as "a right, and not a privilege in the community." 
Dole's side retorted by stating that, "All of the achievements of the Clinton administration are a result of the Republican congress," charged Poinsatte. "Clinton has a way of taking credit for their actions. He'll say anything to get votes." 
Both sides maintained that the candidates they supported possessed the most meritorious characteristics for the office of President. 
"The most important thing about Senator Dole is that, no matter if you agree or disagree with him, you can count on him and his word," said Zigmond. 
As an incumbent, Clinton was not safeguarded from attacks on his past performance. 
"If American's truly con­cerned about credibility, they should look at their Chief Executive," said Zigmond. "Most think if Clinton is elected tomorrow. he won't make it through the entire term." 
However. Clinton supporters regard high economic indica­tors and legislation, such as the Welfare Reform Act during his term as indicators of his suc­cess. 
"A Jot of people say Clinton doesn't have firm convictions, but he's tried to make ideas into workable policies," Belanger said, in regards to Clinton forging with the Republican Congress. 
While the focus of the debate was issue-oriented, panelists described arguments between candidates, particularly in light of the character and credibility issue, as a result of media cov­erage. 
"We've reduced ourselves to soundbyte politics," Pluta said. 
Please recycle The Observer. 




~~\\\)NALMEE~ 
Wednesday, November 6, --7:OOp.m. --Carroll Auditorium 
Saint Mary,s 
Semester Around the World Program 

Open to all ND/SMC students 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds! 

~W....IIII'Sstudents looking the best deal on new and used cars Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
Bring this ad in and receive 
$1000ff 



WOMEN'S SOCCER PEP RALLY! 
Cheer on the Irish as they head for the Big East Tournament Join Coach Petrucelli and members of the team this Wednesday in the LaFortune 
Ballroom from 7:30 -8:30 p.m. 
The Skalkoholics will perform plus a women's soccer attire giveaway 
• 
Don't Miss It! 
~·..:~:::.~·"· Brought to you by Student Government 

11•·;~:~~~·. 


Tuesday, November 5, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Langholtz: Peacekeeping evolves 
United Nations reexamines order, conduct 
By DEREK BETCHER 
As•istant News Editor 
Significant advancements bringing order and commonal­ty to United Nations peace­keeping have recently been made despite that field's ambiguous background, according to Harvey Langholtz, director of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNlTAR). Langholtz lectured Friday on the genesis of UN peacekeeping and on the evolution of training measures for international peace keep­ers. 
"How do you prepare 70,000 soldiers from 70 different nations for 20 different mis­sions?" I.angholtz asked, high­lighting the challenge UNITAR faces. 
He began by examining the background of UN peacekeep­ing, in hopes of illustrating the compound foundations which underlie current training pro­grams. Langholtz noted that the UN's 1945 charter does not even explicitly mention peace keeping. 
To define their actions, nations could use only the charter's sixth chapter -which deals with the settlement of disputes through negotiation and arbitration -and its sev­enth chapter, which addresses the use of sanctions and block­ades. 
Langholtz also pointed out that until recently, an unofficial collection of ideas known as "Chapter Six and a Half' was the de facto basis for UN mem­bers to -define their peacekeep­ing actions. 
"These guidelines are tr~i­tional and ad hoc more than anything," he admitted. 
Boutros Boutros-Ghali's 1992 release of Agenda for Peace helped to define the spectrum, though. Langholtz said the report targeted two types of operations; military peacekeep­ing, where "preventative deployment" and "peace enforcement" would challenge aggression; and humanitarian peacekeeping, where natural disaster rather than aggression would be the cause of mobiliza­tion. This redefined stand was far less passive than its prede-
The Observer 
is now accepting applications for the following position: 
Assistant Accent Editor Copy Editor Music Editor 
Please submit a one-page personal statement to Joey Crawford. Contact Joey at 631-4540 for more information. 
• "fu.I

n1vers1...:J­
cessor. 
"We're going into chaos and we will enforce peace. We're not waiting for an invitation," Langholtz said, enumerating the changed attitude the revi­sions brought. He cited Somalia as an example of a UN mission characterized by the redefined elements of UN peacekeeping. 
Noting that at one time training was the responsibility of the individual nations send­ing troops, Langholtz said that Boutros-Ghali's clarification of peacekeeping called for more consistent and advanced train­ing. Despite the difficulties associated with writing a train­ing manual in a field without "standard established doc­trine," UNITAR has helped to fill that need, according to Langholtz 
The UN has established five correspondence courses, with topics ranging from basic peacekeeping principles to logistic support, have been established. The former, for example, addresses the subtle differences between the moni­toring and the enforcement of peace. 
Highlighting the pertinence of "Principles for the conduct of peace support operations," Langholtz explained that lessons which that course con­tains can partially explain the lack of success the UN has met in the Balkan conflict 
"We tried peace keeping on· the ground and peace enforce­ment in the air,". he said, pin­pointing the inconsistency UNI­TAR's training now warns against. "It just plain didn't work." 
More courses, such as one addressing humanitarian mine removal, are on the way, Langholtz added. 
Friday's colloquium, titled "United Nations' Training for Peacekeeping Operations," was sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 


Montgomery Theatre 
Pizza and Pop will be served Special College Discount Available to Students Open to ALL Students Interested -JBJRTING A JFruJEND ~ 
For further information, Call 277-4366 
Malloy named to new health committee 
Special to The Observer 
President of Notre Dame Father Edward Malloy has been appointed to the new National Committee of Higher 
Education and the Health of Youth. 
Funded by the Centers of Disease Control and Prevention, 


the commit-Malloy tee consists of 20 leaders in higher education, health, arid child and adoles­cent development. Its goals are to: 
• 
Promote among leaders in higher education a broad understanding of health and its relationship to learning; 

• 
Provide a national platform and support network for col­leges and universities that are systematically engaged in improving the health of chil­dren and youth in the commu­nity and on campus; 


• Disseminate information, effective models, innovative ideas and suggested standards for partnerships between insti­tutions of higher education and communities to improve the health of young people. 
The committee is a byproduct of an April 1995 conference at Harvard University titled "Higher Education and the Health of Youth: Charting a National Course in a Changing Environment." 
Conferees agreed that col­leges and universities could be doing more to apply their expertise to the needs of chil­dren and youth, leading to the establishment of the national committee. 
Johnnetta Cole, president of Spelman College, and Julius Richmond, professor emeritus of health policy at Harvard, are co-chairs of the committee. 
Malloy has been an active leader in other programs including his current chairman­ship of the Commission on Substance Abuse at High Schools. 

• STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
SMC's SAB focuses 
on:~;~tudent needs 
attempt to fulfill its mission. At the meeting, the board 

examined their financial status . i . .<. .a,ry's§tud¢J1t and l'~ cted on t ~lf()rts A:r;tivitie~ . .. d ;serving tl;lt) .so fat •< Year,. ..· .suter: College comm~niJy to thf:l best Meliss!i Sanchez presented of its abilities?> What do SaiJJ.t each o~ the board.. members Mary's students anticipate with a three,page report from stude · vernme' deta' SAB'sspending-... h ·· es, Th ent Actiyitie~ B~~pl ~t ··.·. ts even . . iz has. . nnual bpdg~r~ of purpose and ft1nQ'tlon? $45,000, ·· With a curtent hal* 
At the SA~> meeting ()n ance of about $32,000, both Moriday eveni~g.Jhe mem .eoordinztt~r Lori :tdfl(eough o! the boa-c~ (}~~Qt1ssettt ·· and ez. -wet{) p~e~&ed/ ,:que!;tions,and have decide({•t9.;: .. with ·.· · .r~U.spep.~ip.g J?~k ..(
· formulate a questionnaire fore terns o hoard.· · · · --·· ,_ Saint Mary's students tatg~t~ SAB plans to -continue care­ing these topic~ and others. ;;t; < ful budgeting so as to provide 
The survey will be part'<>f Saint Mary's with qualitativ~ ·.. the board's ng quest.to as w¢11 as quantitative pro"' · determine the'n ds and wish· gramming. es of the SMC community. . "Some people just don't real-
SAB is the branch of student ize how much some Uecturers goverliment WJl(lse main focus, and celebrities) are to bring as provided.!n.t,!lei.,rmissipn in," saidJen Ligda.... she com~. statexnent; is to "enbancethe mented .that she 'feels the'· campus culture through social, board is doing the best that recreational. multicultural. they can under the confmes of and educational program-the budget. ll:rl.ng/' . > .. ......... · The survey might be fol­
'fhe board sees studentft;Je~~.. lowed·· up by further informa­back in the fotP'l of campus~ don for students a11d faculty. wide surveys as an essentjal explaining both the goals and element in its continuing limits ofSAB. 

~I 


at SAINT MARY'S 
Rooms are available at The Inn at Saint Mary's 
Friday & Saturday night for the 

Pittsburgh and Rutgers Games 
Call while they last 
,219-232-4000 

r 
r 
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, November 5, 1996 
Second U.s~ pilot fires ·at Iraqi missile site 
By DONALD M. ROTHBERG 
Associated Press Wrirer 
WASHINGTON 

The pilots of two U.S. F-16s who fired high-speed missiles at Iraqi radar sites in separate incidents over the past three days had every indication they were being targeted by Iraqi missiles, Defense Secretary William Perry said today. 
"These incidents did occur. In both cases, the F-16 warning gear alnrted that they were being tracked by a surface-to­air missile system and ... they launched a HARM missile, a radiation-seeking missile, toward the source of that radi­ation," Perry said. 
The Iraqi Foreign Ministry said the incidents were fabri­cated by the Clinton adminis­tration "to divert the attention of American voters from their domestic scandals by creating false problems abroad." 
Since no evidence has been found that Iraq actually launched any missiles, Perry said an intense investigation is underway. 
He said he did not know whether faulty equipment might be involved or whether the Iraqis were playing cat­and-mouse games with their radar systems. 
The defense secretary insist­ed that allied overflights of the area will continue, even though Saddam Hussein's forces have been "quite quiet" in the past week. 
Perry said he did not have any reports about possible damage caused by the missiles. 
The latest incident occurred at 4 a.m. EST about 25 miles from where the earlier firing took place. 
The Pentagon said the pilot in the second incident, assigned to 

Juniors/Seniors! 
Planning to Attend Graduate School? 
Learn the Nuts and Bolts of Applying to Graduate School 

•Identify an appropriate course of study 
•Secure 
letters of recommendation 

•Write 
an effective letter of intent 


•Locate funding sources 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1996 
4:00P.M. -5:00 P.M. 
NoTRE DAME RooM-LAFORTUNE 
Panelists will be: 
[)r. Peter Diffley, Associate Dean of the Graduate School and Dr. Barbara Turpin, Director of Graduate Admission 
Moderated by: 
Olivia Williams, Assistant Director Career and Placement Services 
Turner to TV: Raise your standards 
By DAVID BAUDER 
Associated Press Writer 
NEW YORK 
Media mogul Ted Turner urged a roomful of television executives to raise their stan­dards on Monday, taking a shot­at rival Rupert Murdoch's drive for profits. 
"People are beginning to realize the total effect of watch­ing so much stupid, sleazy, lousy, violent, exploitive" televi­sion, Time Warner's new vice chairman said. "It's bad for our society." 
Turner said he sold his Turner Broadcasting empire to Time Warner instead of other interested rivals like Murdoch's News Corp. or General Electric, because he wanted to make sure the Cable News Network landed in a company with strong cre­dentials in journalism. 

"I wouldn't have wanted Rupert Murdoch, for all his busi­ness· acu­men, he said. "He is exactly the kind of person I'm talking about who puts profits and power absolutely first, sec­ond a,nd third. I would have hated to see CNN dragged through the same kind of stuff thllt the New York Post is." 
A Murdoch spokesman, 

Howard Rubenstein, responded by saying the mogul is proud of the Post, and declined further comment about Turner. 
Turner, whose empire includ­ed CNN, Turner Network Television and the Atlanta Braves, went to the seat of broadcast industry power to deliver the lecture, named for CBS founder William Paley, at the Museum of Television & Radio in mid-town Manhattan. 
Industry officials packed the room -Turner even chided Dan Rather for slipping in late -anxious to hear him renew his feud with Murdoch. The moguls are fighting in court over Time Warner's refusal to allow Murdoch's Fox News Channel on its cable systems. 


Spanish Mass Schedule 
November 3  Stanford-Keenan Padre Patrick Neary, C.S.C  
November10  Stanford-Keenan Padre David Scheidler, C.S.C  
November 17  Stanford-Keenan Padre Patrick Neary, C.S.C  
November 24  Stanford-Keenan Padre Jose Martelli, C.S.C  

D 

VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, November 5, 1996 page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Mate Casey 
Tom Roland News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor ................... Erhan Hayward Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Spom Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager ..............••.....•. Tara Grieshop Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet 
Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University of Notre Dam~ du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­
tion of either insrirurion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­rorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor: News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Pharo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Comme maries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­muniry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing EdirorNiewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sports 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631·7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927. Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Generallnformarion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
~~~17'""7>~'"""-'"'.._......"..,._ 




• AND IN THIS CORNER... 
Remember, remember the fifth ofNovember... 
By tho time you read this, the 1996 presidential election will be over. 
Of course, the polls will still be open, and people will still be casting their votes, but the election will already be over. It was actually decided some time ago -in March of this year, in 1992, in 1984, in 1960, in 1912, even in 1876. 
It was decided by "electors," and it was decided by television. It was decid-
Matthew Apple 

ed by millionaires and by their interna­tional corporations. It was decided by tobacco, and it was decided by speech writers. It was decided by the pollsters, and it was decided by the talk-show hosts. It was decided by half-truths, and half-people, and half-wits who believed what they wanted to believe. 
The CNN world wide web page devot­ed to Campaign '96, called "Allpolitics," lists the following as "issues" of the presidential election: abortion, affirma­tive action, the budget, character, crime, education, the environment, foreign affairs, health care, immigration, taxes, values, welfare reform, and medicare. 
It lists two candidates, Bill Clinton and Bob Dole. 
H. Ross Perot occasionally surfaces in CNN/Time political reports, but he is never taken seriously. He hovers around the political periphery, lashing out in tho 11th hour with his multi-billion dol­lar personal net value backing his Reform Party. He is the only third party candidate with the money to buy four half-hour television commercials, and the only magnate with the chutzpah to tell the public "you own this country." 
There are additional party tickets which will appear on most presidential ballots, depending upon the state, depending upon how many signatures they could scrounge up to fulfill the ridiculous requirement for independent national balloting. The Green Party, the Libertarian Party, the Natural Law Party and the Taxpayers Party all have inter­net homes; there are at least again as many which do not have an internet presence but have candidates of their own. Regardless, practically nobody has heard of these parties, and practically no one will cast ballots for them, because the public did not see them rep­resented in fifteen second television ads. 
The political mind set of American society can be summed up as polarized, dualistic, simplistic, and easily misled. It can also be summed up in a Miller Lite TV commercial between time-outs on Sunday; or in a Drew Barrymore inter­view on MTV; or in a Phillip Morris mag­azine ad; or in a Wall Street brokerage firm. 
It can also be turned on by bizarre tax strategies which won't work and by edu­cation promises which will never be implemented; it can be impressed by smooth-talking and by sob-stories; it can also pick up the remote control and flip the channel to Monday Night Football. 
What went wrong with American democracy? Aside from the incidental scandal here and there, the United States government remains a model of stability for governments around the world. But what about the society? What about the people whose interests are supposedly being represented? What about a real choice? 
Here we have two major parties ­one a model of corporate greed and environmental insensitivity, the other a paragon of spinelessness and organiza­tional idiocy -neither of which is will­ing to look farther than seven years down the road, both of which hoist ban­ners for two cookie-cut figures with nearly flawless false sincerity and image-is-everything TV manners. We are given once again the choice for a "lesser of two evils," or perhaps in this case, the lesser of two actors. 
We do not elect leaders any more. We do not vote for statesmen, or great thinkers, or even great warriors, but for those who make us believe they have all these admired qualities of the "hero" which we could find in ourselves if we looked for them. We elect a smile and a handshake; we elect a slogan or a flashy commercial distortion; we elect a mask, a Shakespearean actor who never for­gets his lines on national broadcasts but would be completely at a loss if he were bereft of his ever-prompting sideline aides. 

And we have no one to blame but our­selves. Who else elects these men, but us? What starts in high school, and pro­ceeds through college and higher, the system which teaches us that what we do is not so important as how we look while doing it, or what sport we play, or what battles we fought, or what our height and hair color is, or how confi­dently we preen and posture -this is all mere training for the fifth of November. 
Remember, remember, the fifth of November, the gunpowder, treason and plot... 
But we have forgot. We have let power fall into incestuous politicians' laps while we toddle to the fridge for a cold one while watching Simpsons' reruns. Here in America, we do not have vision. We neither learn from the past, nor live in the present, nor plan for the future. We merely exist, static, bored with the whole thing and wishing something bet­ter would come along by itself while we lounge around waiting for Godot. 
Since 1966, nationwide registration in the Democratic Party has dropped by 25%, and registration in the Republican Party has dropped by 10%. Third party registration has quadrupled. And there still is no chance at all for any third party candidate to become President. And what if there were a party which could duplicate the election of 1860 and, like the Republican Party, displace one of the big two? The Democrats and the Republicans have been the only two kids in the sandbox for over a hundred years...is the sand with which they have been blinding us beginning to run out? 
How much longer will there be "wasted votes"? 
Today is Election Day across the nation. We vote for the donkey and the elephant, the braying jackass and the lumbering behemoth. We vote for a cardboard stand-up figure with a tape recorder set to endless loop, who has broken every promise he ever made and has let down those who needed him most; or we vote for the oldest man ever to run for President who believes he can give "power to the people" by accepting campaign contributions from America's leading carcinogenic producers, and who still thinks the Dodgers play in Brooklyn; or we vote for one of the rich­est nerds in the world, other than Bill Gates, who has the personal charisma of a 1040 tax form. 
In the meantime, one out of four American children lives in poverty; the nationwide illiteracy remains the high­est among all industrialized nations; the gap between the wealthy and the poor is the greatest it has ever been in U.S. his­tory; the state and federal government continue to insist they can fight crime by hiring more police and building more prisons; large producers of electricity are allowed to purchase permits to emit pollutants into the air; and our wetlands and woodlands are being plundered by faceless corporations who owe alle­giance to no one. 
Implicit in the call for someone to lead America into the 21st century is the assumption that we need to be led. It may be that this election date will mark some sort of turning point in American history... 
.. . I see no reason why gunpowder treason should ever be forgot. 
...or it may become nothing but yet another footnote, a new entry in future editions of the game of Trivial Pursuit. 
Matthew Apple is a graduate student in the English Department. He can be reached at mapple@skyenet.net, and check out his new and improved website at http://www.skyenet.net/-mapple. 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 



ACCENT 
Tuesday, November 5, 1996
page 8 

--~-------------­
Electoral Expert and Preside11 
Robert Remini Offers Campa 
even has a swap section wh()re users can request specific types of recipes. :
Julia Child, Eat Your Heart Out: 
But, as 1hey say in jnfomercials, there's much, much more! Are you tmsure, say, h~ to eat strawberries politely in public? The Playing With Your Food section is a for eating virtually aH types of food properly. What's Ripe tolls you which fruits vegetables are in peak season at any given time at many locations throughout 
U.S. Remarkably, it listed not only items from local supermarkets, but also prices
Cooking Up Tasty"' 
and links to recipes for each item on the list. This site is complete, beautifully designed, and well-written: in short, it's fun. 
It's also remarkably unselfish. You can subscribe to the magazines here, but you'll have to look hard to find where to do it. The only problem with tltis site is that there are no sample tastes of the completed recipes to
Web Treats 
download, Anyway, Epicurious is an essential site for anybody who loves to eat and cook. Another good cooking site is Veggies Unite! {www.vegweb.com). 
By JASON HUGGINS This site. includes about 1,500 vegetarian recipes from many dif·

World Wide Web Correspondent 

ferent cuislnes andis growing quickly. Users contributed about 40 recipes during the last week. The recipes are well-organized 
Whether you're living off campus, just can't stand the dining halls, or are preparing to best ofall, searchable. enter the ''real world," cooking for yourself is a necessity, After the thrill of cooking pop.. ..But wha;t is rea;Jly c::ool about this site is. how well it simplifies corn or macaroni and cheese is gone, most people have to search for creative, new but being a vegetarian. After browsing the recipes, you can add the easy recipes to stimulate their taste buds. And, you guessed it, the Web has some answ~rs. appetizing ones to a built-in weekly meal planner via a link at the 
Epicurious (www.epicurious.com) is a superb resource developed by Conde. ·.· • ()feach recipe. Once you plan your meals for the week, you lish~r of two ~agazines beloved by. food junkies everywhere:· Bon Appeiit • hereto create a shopping list from the meal plan. You II find articles from the current ISsues of both here as well as a search· . are the 100-term glossary and the extensive t::::::=t:;=.::=l
nutrition sites and listings of events such as 
:%..:· 

By DAN CICHALSKI Assistant Accent Ediwr 
In a word. the 1996 presidential campaign could be described as "boring." "The American President" had a more interesting, enjoy­able race for what may be the most revered office position in the world. 
In the movie, Richard Dreyfuss attacked Michael Douglas, the incumbent widower who had begun dating again. Dreyfuss continu­ally criticized Douglas' character while the President refrained from immediately slinging the mud back at him. 
In the 1996 campaign, Bob Dole sounded like a broken record in his failed attacks on Bill Clinton, who, in turn, repeatedly spewed out favorable statistics from his first term. It was almost a G-rated, Disney campaign. 
Sitting behind the desk in his corner ollice in Decio Faculty Hall, Hobert Hemini expressed his disappointment with the campaign. "It's one of the most uninteresting, feeble, and uninspired," he said. "And it might be that the candidates are not really that attractive to us. I've met both: I've talked with both; and I admire both very rnueh, for different reasons." 
Hemini is a visiting professor in the American Studies department. llis two courses this fall consist of Presidency and American Life, covering the presidency from George Washington to Abraham 
r 
Lincoln. and a seminar on writing presidential biography. His three­
r 
volume biography of Andrew Jackson. "The Life of Andrew Jaekson," earned Hemini praise from the New York Times as "the foremost Jaeksonian scholar of our time." 
As a historian (the title he gives himself first over any others), pro­fessor. and biographer, Hemini has studied campaigns and adminis­trations from the earliest days of the United States. His research and interpretations have also brought him recognition as a lecturer and Remini has spoken at the White House and around the world for 
r the State Department.
r When the polls finally dose today, Remini believes the result will
r 
re11eet what the numbers have said all along: President Clinton will r r b e 
r 

building that bridge to the 21st Century. "It may be quite a sweep for the Democrats. [Television reports] are saying now that even Dole himself is concrding [a week before the election]." 
If Clinton wins, he will be the first Democrat since Franklin Roosevelt to win two terms in offiee. When asked why the 
Republican 
c a m p a i g n 
struggled, Remini did not hesitate to answer. " [ N e w t l Gingrich," he said with a laugh. 
But the Speaker of the House is,of course, not the only reason. "You start with Gingrieh and work your way down from there: shutting down the govern­ment, fright­ening people. [Dole] talks about the Democrats frightening people with Medicare, but it seems to me the initial fright came from them. And, of course, the economy is in good shape. We're not where we were four years ago. 
"We're deal­ing with a known, as opposed to an unknown. What would a D o I e Administration be like?" 
In the first

presidential .~---------L-~~~----2~-2..~-~~~--------_JI 
debate, Dole criticized Clinton's trust. "I trust the American people," Dole said. "The President trusts the government." But this may be another attack that turned around to hurt Dole rather than help him in the race. 
According to Remini, it is important for the people to trust their government. He referred to Ronald Reagan for a recent example of why this confidence is so important: "He told the people the govern­ment was the problem," Remini said. "And people have a great dis­trust of government now. You hav• tl~ct your life, liberty, and that you their job. If you don't trust them to shape." 
While many will readily admit tht 



back Issues. A search· on strawberries turned up 50 recipes published since 1991. Thi 
"I don't think Clinton has always s he should as a president. lie's not But, then, you see, the American that may be another reason why they themselves are not sure. He 
"Clinton's presidency is not a fail ey so far. The best, I hope, is yet to things. lie did stand up to the idea 

There was more to The Shamrock Classic than football. This coverage of Irish culture reflects a broader perspective of the country, its people and its ties to America. 
•
1 
1~[[ 
:.f• 
f,
:~-~~ 
.~ . " 
I l_ ~ 
' ~·-;-~ 
The Observer/Mike Ruma 

Blarney Castle, home of the famous Blarney stone, represents some of the best in Irish castles. 
By PATTI CARSON always serve their purposes. The first castles to Managing Editor be erected in Ireland were those of the Anglo­Normans. Built primarily between 1169 and 1heirs is a rich history, one of blood and 1220, these castles consisted of palisaded earth­'i drama, splendor and majesty. They add a works with added stonework. But the period of 
.1 completely novel dimension to an already the great stone castles of Ireland (1190-1330) diverse Irish landscape. Cold and stately, yet and the numerous late medieval castles are inviting, they beg the curiosity of any passer-by. those which still adorn the Irish landscape. The They are the castles of Ireland. And these cas­Normans are credited with the first stone cas­tles can be found over the whole of Ireland, tles in Ireland. "These structures they built from north to south and east to west, in the known as the 'Motte and Bailey' -a watchtow­most unexpected places. Castles are fortresses of necessity -they always have been. Castles see GLORY/ page 2 
~··:.:. ·'\ 
""·· . 
The Observer/Rob Finch 

This scene, taken at Windmill Lane, exemplifies the sort of devotion U2 
inspires. 
Hero Worship 
By TIM SHERMAN the former site of the Dublin Sports Editor band's recording studio. Though the studio relocated a 
The religion of Ireland is number of years ago, it is still a clearly Roman Catholic. The very popular spot on Dublin's Irish worship a three-person "Rock and Stroll" Music Trail. God -The Trinity. "People come here quite
The religion of many Dublin often," said Mick Kavanaugh,tourists is clearly a different an employee of The Yacht type of faith. They worship a Shop, located adjacent to four-person god-U2. Windmill Lane. "They get so 
Whereas Catholics make pil­excited. I really don't under­grimages to the National Shrine stand why." at Knock, U2 worshippers make 
pilgrimages to Windmill Lane, 
see U2/ page 3 
Mike Ruma 

The St. James's Gate Brewery of Guinness is among D~~lin's more popular attractions. 

The Observer • IRElAND EXTRA Tuesday, November 5, 1996 
Historical Haven 
By TIM SHERMAN SportS Editor 

One of the mor-e popular and fascinating tourist attractions in Ireland in the Book of Kells, and intricately illuminated manuscript of the Gospels fashioned by Irish monks around 800 
A.D. But a spot not nearly as popular yet per­haps more fascinating is Clonmacnoise, a monas­tic city that dates as far back as 543 A.D. 
It was in a monastic complex such as Clonmacnoise where a manuscript such as that of Kells would have been done but as can be seen in the ruins and history of Clonmacnoise, monasteries were much more and a vital part of Irish life. 
Today, all that is left of the monastic communi­ty that Saint Ciasan founded between 543-549 are the remains of stone churches, two towers, and a graveyard full of Celtic Crosses. But there is something more that is not visible or tangible ­an amazing sense of history. 
"Surely, visitors are amazed at the remnants,"
table relics of history them­
Clonmacnoise tour guide Brigid O'Toole said.
selves.
Glory 
"But what strikes them just as much are the sto­
Blarney Castle, as viewed 
ries of went on here." 

continued from page 1 today, is the third to have been 
In the modern transportation scheme of
erected on that site. First it 
Ireland, Clonmacnoise is quite out of the way, as
cia! hill surrounded by a stock­was an entirely wooden struc­
it is off a rail or bus line and 14 miles off a main
ade served as structures by ture in the tenth century, 
road, yet in its heyday, it was located literally at
which to guard their conquered according to Sean Arro1e, tour­
the crossroad of Ireland. More specifically, it sits 
territory, " according to James guide at the castle. In the thir­
on a ridge overlooking the River Shannon (north
Carlow, Bunratty teenth century this was 
to south) and a band of glacial lakes that formed
Castlegrounds tourguide. replaced by stone and in 1446 The Observer!Tim Sherman 
a major east to west route. In fact, a thriving vil­
"Irish chieftains weren't long it was once more altered to The South Cross (foreground) and the Round Tower
lage grew around Clonmacnoise. Also it had
In imitating them. In the fif­look as it does today. are two of Clonmacroise's signature structures.
major strategic importance for the various fac­
teenth century, these fortifica­Blarney Castle, in sharp con­tions were constructed in large trast to Bunratty and other tions of Ireland. ture" features, high crosses. 
"If you could control Clonmacnoise, you could The Cross of the Scriptures and the South
numbers, Carlow added. But such castles, is and open-air 
virtually control Ireland long ago," O'Toole said. Cross are both stone Celtic Crosses measuringthey were not always used as castle. It is not furnished, and So Clonmacnoise would be forever influenced upwards of 6 feet and are carved with intricate
residences, which might be it is not exceptionally user 
by warfare. Starting in 833 through the middle designs. In fact, four years ago, the original
assumed at first. friendly. Its narrow, winding, of the 12th century, over 30 plunderings and crosses were moved inside the Visitor's Center to 
"Many Irish clansman, even and seemingly never-ending 
as late as the sixteenth century, steps lead to its top -the burnings were recorded. But the monks worked prevent damage to the design. They are a fine on. Unfortunately, hardly any of their literary or example of religiously influenced art. They were
preferred moving with their home of the Blarney stone. 
artistic legacy survived except what can be seen commissioned by kings in thanksgiving.
cattle over the changing of sea­Climb to the top of Blarney to at Clonmacnoise today in terms of the ruins. Another prominent feature Clonmacnoise issons," he said. "They could live kiss the stone and get the "gift . Due to the numerous invasions, the remaining The Round Tower. Over 19 meters high, theoff the land, but their castles of gob," but you'll have to wait. 
churches do not date back to the time of Saint tower, which was completed in 1124, was notprovided safety for their fami­About fourteen other people Ciaran but they are compelling nonetheless. just a monument like the crosses.
lies and their barns provided are waiting to do the same One question often posed to tour guides such "The high doorways would have served 
as as O'Toole is why only churches remain -surely defensive features," O'Toole explained. "Duringsafety for their precious cattle ahead of you. 
in times of attack." That's another thing about a monastery must need more than just churches. seizes, the monks would seek refuge with theirlienee, castles served the castles, Blarney in particular ­"The monks choose to build the churches with 
books." stone but the other buildings were built of per­Probably the most remarkable feature of the
purpose of protector early on, they are tourist havens. A pro­but their purpose also became fessional photographer stands an aesthetic one with time. over the stone and snaps as 
ishable material," O'Toole said. Clonmacnoise region actually stands outside the Structure of eight different churches or "tem­walls of the monastery. A castle, first construct­
"Otherwise castles were built each tourist kisses the stone. 
for status," he said. Their pur­That photograph may be pur­ples", are surrounded by a polygonal wall that ed in 1214, rises up high on a hill overlooking pose was to entertain and chased (for a pretty steep fee). dates at least to 1658. the monastery. Due to a gunpowder explosionThe largest and most significant church is the sometime during its' history, it's southwest wall
impress visitors. Later, within the Blarney 
Bunratty castle, as it stands complex, tourists also find Cathedral. Although small by today's standards, now stands vertically on just one corner appear­today. consists of three floors Blarney woolen mills, home of the church was full size during the early 13th ing to truly defy gravity. Not only is it an incredi­and four towers with six stories the famous Aran sweaters and century. The structure was begun in possibly ble sight, it is a reminder of the warfare waged each. There is the Great Hall, numerous other gifts. Both 909, according to O'Toole and numerous fea­to control Clonmacnoise and the local communi­which served as a banquet hall Blarney and Bunratty grounds tures were added over time. Surrounding the ty. And like the rest of the ruins, it is an amaz­
Cathedral are actually Clonmacnoise's "signa-ing window to an amazing past. 
and audience chamber of noble contain numerous gift shops proportions, solar bedrooms and eateries. complete with fireplaces, a rob­The purpose of the castle has ing room where the earl kept changed a bit. It's primary 
Sacred shrine, tourist temple 
and donned his robes before objective used to be the protec­entering the great hall. Each tion of families, cattle, reputa­By PATTI CARSON enclosed in a chapel, and Michael Walsh of Knock parish. 
room of th{l Bunratty is deco­tion. Castles made history. Managing Editor there's another Adoration "The central figure was rated with antiques to recap­Today, castles promote pride Chapel, a Basilica, an enor­recognised as that of Our ture the spirit of this seven­in Irish history and they pro­Get off the bus at Knock, Co. mous confessional hill, a Knock Lady ... on her right was a figure teenth century castle life. mote tourism as well. Nightly, Mayo, Ireland, and the first Folk Museum, and countless recognised as Saint Joseph and 
But is wasn't all so glorious. at various castles including thing visible is a line of sou­shops lining the streets of the on the left was Saint John," Castles have had their trouble­Bunratty, there are two to venir shops selling religious village. The souvenir shops according to Walsh. An altar, a some histories, too. Bunratty's three medieval banquet din­articles. There are baskets full bear the names of Saint Martin, lamb, and a cross also strategic positioning on the ners which guests can partake of hollow plastic Madonnas-5 Saint Brendan, and Saint Peter. appeared on that night at Hiver Shannon has made it an of starting at 30 pounds (55 for an Irish pound, even-to fill There's even a rest and care Knock. interest of envious invaders. U.S. dollars) per head. up with holy water found near center for the elderly within the But the Holy See doesn't offi­This castle has changed hands But there's definitely a draw. the shrine. Knock complex. Oh-and cially recognise this apparition. quite often. and quite violently, To think of the great people Walk a bit further and find there's a hamburger joint and So why do so many people take during periods of friction who dined there, that drew the 18 holy water fonts. Just several other eateries. pilgramages to the shrine between the native Irish of breath within those very same press the button and out flows But around what, exactly, is monthly? Even Pope John Paul Thormond and Norman walls, to hear the stairs creak holy water in the same manner this religious and touristry II visited the Knock Shrine ifl invaders. the very same way they did it streams from a cold water haven built? There's quite an 1979, and a giant stone cross 
In fact, Bunratty has been when the great Earls traipsed cooler-all at no charge. A answer to that. was erected on the site. rebuilt eight or nine times. But upon them-it's all so mysteri­man nearby is filling up a jug. On August 21, 1879, approxi­Thousands flocked to pray at the Irish castle contains so ous that the curiosity can hard­The Knock Shrine, the site of mately fifteen witnesses saw Knock with the pope. While much history of the country ly be quenched. And it's so the apparent apparition of "three figures standing at the the Church doesn't officially that it's worth the rebuilding, hard not to get lost in the glory Mary in 1879, is surrounded by gable wall of the church, about acknowledge the apparition, it the restoring, and the preser­of it all. what my .be called a religious eighteen inches to 2 feet above still advocates devotion to the vation. These castles are veri-"complex." The shrine is the ground," according to Msgr. Blessed Virgin. 
the drink doesn't need much elaborate throughout the Republic was unani­Festival," according to Jim Sully,
Guinness 
advertising because it speaks for itself. mous. Guinness employee of Dublin. Or rather, others speak for it. Ask any Ireland loves Guinness. It's hard to believe that such a thriving
continued from page 1 
one of the people gathered around the And it's such a big business there. business which is fully woven into Irish 
The Observer/Patti Carson The interior of the Bunratty Castle has been restored to period furni­ture. Most of the furniture has been imported, yet it offers a true glimpse into the past. 


bar at Oliver Saint John Gogarty's pub. Who hasn't been to Ireland and had a life started with one man-Arthur
interesting history is its advertising. 
They'll tell you about Guinness. Guinness (or many of them, for that Guinness-in 1759.
Guinness ads are unique and captivat­
"I only drink Guinness," John Carney matter)? Who hasn't heard of the There's a movie which plays in the
ing, possibly due to simple language. 
says. ''I'm a Guinness man. And I'll tell Guinness Book of Records, which was theater of the Guinness Museum in
"Guinness for strength," "My goodness, 
you that it's best in the winter-a heavy started by two employees of Guinness Dublin and it explains the history of
My Guinness," and probably most 
drink. It hits the spot." And then he over a debate on which game bird was Guinness. The last line of the little flick
famous, "Guinness is good for you." 
sang a little tribute song to the drink bigger. "Plus Guinness sponsors the is quite fascinating: "Arthur (Guinness)
It's good for you because it's made of 
which serves as his inspiration. But Guinness Jazz Festival in Ireland, along would be delighted that such pleasure
only four ingredients-malted Irish bar­
that's a bit too hard to capture in print. with the Galway International Oyster cold be had simply by mentioning his
ley, roast barley, hops, and yeast. But 
The sentiment toward Guinness in pubs Festival and the Wexford Opera name." Tuesday, November 5, 1996 The Observer • IRElAND EXTRA page 3 
Cosmopolitan 
Dublin, the world's third rnost popular u;eekend city, is home to the shoppers' mecca of Grafton Street 
By PATTI CARSON Managing Editor 
Ireland is all about an abundance of resources within a very small area. Consider how diverse the country is in topography, language, tourist sites, his­tory and customs; now consider that Ireland is roughly the size of the state of Indiana. 
But you have not seen anything until you have strolled down one Grafton Street in Dublin. Talk about variety within a small area. 
The street is lined on both sides by a multitude of shops and several eateries, but it is mostly a shopping mecca. 
Thomas Grath, a frequent shopper of Grafton Street's Weir Sons Clothiers, discussed prices on the infamous Grafton Street. "This street is a shop­per's paradise," he said. "Rather, you'd better make that a rich shopper's par­­adise." 
Grafton, unlike most shopping meccas, is not cheap. Grath explained that Grafton draws those who have a little extra money in their pockets. 
"You can find many of the same stores on Henry Street, another shopping dis­trict, but there's more variety within thw stores on Grafton. And shoppers pay for that variety. They pay more for their all expensive. Grafton Street is never slow-paced. store. "We are one of the few Irish­
merchandise because there is more 
At Golden Discs music store, a nor­Even the eateries are working at maxi­owned stores, but mostly the landlordsmerchandise to choose from," he said. 
mally priced CD, like The Cranberries' mum capacity. The McDonald's and are English," Reilly said. 
It is all there on Grafton Street: cloth­latest, is 15 pounds, translating to about Burger King on Grafton are used to traf­"Dublin is quite European," he added. 
iers, shoes, lingerie, housewares, hair twenty-five American dollars. fic moving through quickly, and they This European influence is easilystylists, opticians, jewelry and watches, Maybe this is why there are so many cope efficiently. detected on Grafton Street, yet it stillbooks, music, food -nearly anything banks on the long and winding Grafton "Ireland loves to shop (or simply win­draws a plethora of serious Irish shop­imaginable. The merchandise caters to a Street. There are numerous side streets dow-shop) on Grafton," Mary McNulty pers on a daily basis. The street alsocontinental market. On a huge store running off Grafton which are home to a said, carrying three bags in one hand attracts Americans, Italians, and otherwindow of Marks & Spencer is printed, myriad of shops, rather similar to those and a bottle of sparkling mineral water different nationalities due to its location"London, Paris, Madrid, Amsterdam, on Grafton Street. in the other. in the center of Dublin near many hotels and Brussels." 
But it's "Grafton" that draws the big Ireland may love to shop on Grafton that regularly host conventions. 
There is a Rolex flag flying high, and a spenders. With Dublin being the third Street, but oddly, it's not really her own. Grafton's shops cater to an increasing­few steps away is "Sortez." There are most popular weekend vacation city in Roughly eighty percent of the stores on ly diverse clientele. The street is a smallliterally only about twenty pieces of Ireland, according to recent statistics Grafton are English owned, according to microcosm of the growing diversity inclothing in the store. Here you will find 
compiled by the Dublin Tourism Bureau, John Reilly of Barrott's, a men's clothing greater Ireland.
sequins, leather, tiger print, and black ­


The Observer/Rob Finch 

A framed Joshua Tree album in the Windmill Lane Studio commemo­rates U2's first true blockbuster album in America. 
. ­
THE 



CLAR..ENCl[ 
HOTEL 

The Observer/Rob Finch The Clarence Hotel, one of U2's business ventures in Dublin, was pur­chased by the group a few years ago, and refurbished into an elegant establishment. Nearby is The Kitchen, a club owned by the group. 
U2 
continued from page 1 
Well, for one thing, Windmill Lane is one place where the walls actually do talk. 
Not literally, of course, but the walls and fences of the lane are flooded with spray-painted 
Though the lane is a few miles removed from the city center of Dublin and well hid­den, it has been a shrine for U2 fans since the early Dublin days of the quartet. 
"Ever since I have been here, people have been coming to the wall," said Susan Ritter, cur­rent studio manager of Windmill Lane Studio. "And I have been here about eight years." 
During that time, Windmill Lane has taken the notoriety first brought on by the emer­gence of U2 and now stands on it's own in a new location as probably the best studio in Ireland. 
"We get artists like the Rolling Stones, The Chieftains and the Cranberries in here to do some work," Ritter said. "But U2 definitely creates the most attention when they work here." 
The current studio stands without any sign to stay anony­mous to tourists, but the old studio continues to get plenty of visitors. 
Not surprisingly, lead singer Bono is singled out the most of any individual member, partic­ularly by foreign tourists. In fact, an inordinate number of the "art", as some might call it, comes from Italian and German visitors to the Emerald Isle. 
Maria from Italy wrote on 11/6/92, "Marry me, Bono". Such is a typical plea. 
But the worship of the inter­national stars doesn't end at Windmill Lane. It extends throughout Dublin, especially in many music shops. 
While U2's albums are avail­
able throughout the world, 
many Dublin stores, especially 
smaller shops, have found a 
niche in selling "bootleg" con­
cert tapes of the group to those 
whose thirst for different U2 
music is unquenchable. 
Again, foreigner interest is strong. 

graffiti devoted to the band and speak volume as to the status the group owns. 
"U2, you have changed my life. Thank you," wrote a fan named Joe. 
"We need U2 like a fish needs water," said another. 
"U2, the Best Rock and Roll Band Ever," a third extremely devoted fan said. 
''I'd say at least half of the people who come looking for U2 tapes are from outside Ireland," said Peter Murray of Dublin's Rhythm Records. "They're mostly American and European tourists. As a matter of fact, we call the summer 
tourist season "U2 season.  We  
can't keep enough in stock.  It's  
pretty crazy."  

One might think the cottage industry of mass producing ille­gal concert recordings would bother the band. 
One would be wrong. 
"Bono actually came into our shop a few years back," said Murray. "He had no objections to all the bootlegs." 
Actually, in a way, allowing bootlegs to exist on the black market is a wise business deci­sion. 
"Even their manager (the fis­cally strict Paul McGuinness) doesn't mind," Murray added. 
"The group feels that the live tapes only generate more inter­est. If you're a fan, you're going to already own the albums and they had no prob­lem getting people to their con­certs." 
Nor do they have much trou­ble retaining a bit of their own dignity among Dubliners. 
"In Dublin, they can walk down the street without getting mobbed," Murray said. "Well, tourists might but the Irish may just say 'Hi, Bono' or whoever and let them be." 
"They actually go to clubs sometimes," said Murray. "They can sometimes be seen at The Kitchen." 
The Kitchen is the Dublin club which is owned by the band. In many respects, it is much like any other club ­expansive and expensive. 
But there is one difference ­its owners are among the world's biggest rock stars. 
It is not the only Dublin busi­ness venture of the group. They also own the elegant Clarence Hotel. 
U2 purchased the establish­ment a few years back and invested in a total refurbish­ment project. It is now one of the city's best. 
It is just another example of the band bringing in substantial tourist dollars to Dublin. 
But more importantly, though they're more popular overseas, they're a source of pride. 
"Of course we're proud, they're irish," Ritter said. 

-


I

ACCENT ~ I I 
Tuesday, November 5, 1996 page 9 


ial Professor: 
n Commentary 
trust the government to pro­curity is in safe hands. It's this, then you're in really bad 
country is better off today than it was 
four years ago, few will jump at the chance to recognize Clinton as a great or strong president. Strong presidents have vision and good leadership skills and are cun­ning and pragmatic, according to Remini. 


, 
I 
They also possess persuasive powers, charisma, and credi­bility. And Andrew Jackson always said he was lucky. 

"If you're given the choice between brains and I u c k , choose luck every time , " Rem in i said. 
But he said it is hard to r e I a t e these traits to the two candidates. the kind of leadership that that terribly sure of himself. 
don't seem to be. In fact, like him so much, because reflects that. 
but it's not a great presiden­There are some very good so-called Gingrich revolu­
tion and the medical leave for people was real­ly worthwhile. I think the gun control was also worthwhile and impor­tant." 
Bill Clinton is, obvious­ly, not perfect, as many Americans such as Dole are quick to point out. But Remini compares his faults and other aspects of his character to Jackson's. 
In fact, when he met Clinton at the inaugura­tion, Remini gave the president a copy of his Jackson biography. "If he had read the [book], he wouldn't have made the same mistakes Jackson did," Remini said. "He's like Jackson in a lot of ways: he didn't know his natural father, raised by '---------' a very strong woman, 
Although a presidential expert, Remini

coming out of poverty 
refuses to reveal his own political affiliation, 

and no place. But they 
opting instead to "try to seem neutral:'

diverge: Jackson was a 
very strong leader and I 
think Clinton hesitates too much." 
A glaring similarity, Remini stressed, could be found in the appointments made by the eighth and forty-second presidents. "Most of them were disastrous," he explained. "There weren't some really good people there to advise him. The appointments were very checkered. There have been some successes, but not great success­
es." 

Where Remini really gives credit to President Clinton is his han­dling of foreign affairs. "He's done very well. We have not engaged in war. We haven't lost many troops; no body bags coming back in great numbers. And Clinton has managed to uphold the authority of the United States," he said. 
Overall, Remini gave the first Clinton Administration an average rating and credited the president with "a lot of political skill." The second term, if today's results produce one, will depend a lot on Congress and who controls it. 
The most important aspect of a president is how he runs the coun­try. Perhaps this is the reason Dole's character attacks on Clinton have backfired. Remini, too, has little tolerance for some of the alle­gations that have surrounded Clinton's first term. "I can't care less about the woman thing. That's almost a constant with American history," he said. "But a number of the scandals have the potential to really dynamite the administration if it turns out that they are true. 
"I think character is very important. I don't think it is the media that has created it. They are reporting it; they don't show any restraint. It started right after Kennedy. Kennedy is the last time they held off telling the people." 
One way or another, Robert Remini will be smiling tonight when 
the results come in and America learns who will be leading the 
country out of the 20th Century. But he laughs and hesitates at 
clearly stating his political affiliation. "Then the whole class would 
know and I'd blow my cover," he said with a laugh. "I try to seem 
neutral and I'd like to keep it that way." 
conferences and animal rights events. Whether you esichew l simply want to find excellent meatless recipes, this .,_;r.,::.J'"" ceed. Unfortunately. though, the recipe for rn€,a-tl.ess fuund. · If you're really broke and ,.a•. vuu• the Iowa State Univ 
(www.enUastate.edu/Misc/Ju::~•~c~<~f\~>ruvu ..~nJ•mJ•.,:· pleasures as. Bug Blox and· Banana dining ball doesn't seam that bad! 
To help wash down all the wonderful fl0()di1~S •v-out'"r you'll need to find some excellent drink ..,·,~ ............., mixed drink posters. don't wo ~=="'""';;..I.~ (www.TheVirtua.Ular.corn} for 1700 drinks. You.-ean even enter and let the computer generate a listof. Virtual Bar also has drinking. tips, ""''"'"""'., tion. Cooking for yourself or for loved ones is. n.ow• C1fCI:LeJ~st·er the Internet. · 
Jason Huggins is a junior MIS-:=..-.....~_,.fall break, he learned how the.Web. E-mail him at 
• MEDICAL MINUTE 
it Out: 
and' worked on farms. which required physi*vital for our ancestors 
society, we are very our nightly dinners. the..dining hall whole, .u:;:~,u.v,.vJu::;Jtl.iiu labof<to 
general promotion and a The primary rea* 
that working out of exercise. been worn away and the 
eXierc:iseJrs notice a healthy glow to 
UlLll>\;llt:'i:>. g~.J ~.vf.,•u energy. 

'"~'"""""" perform physical and even decreases tension and anxi­. to feel more flexible and to reason many work out) pounds. especially U' 
food intake. :>>:··~~..., ...1'.,.,· cannot be seen or 

~I 
eXllmJple, exercise Moreover, F'lttll"ciq,.., generally n.uu11........ exercise helps to 

COJrJ.Cerntt·ation and eveifhieJps sleep better. 
· some time each re1>earcll1ers· have found that a week to devote 
·best work out ron· session ends with a muscles that have just 
lea.stone hOur of exercise best and most academically time to work out may not you will not regret fitting 
ch(;lclule. 

------------------------.-----------~--~----------~-----------------------­
r 
Elway rallies Broncos one more time 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 5, 1996 

By ROB GLOSTER 
Associated Press Writer 
OAKlAND, Calif. The king of comebacks did it again. 
John Elway led the 33rd fourth-quarter game-winning drive of his career Monday night, throwing a 49-yard touchdown pass to Rod Smith with 4:14 remaining to rally the Denver Broncos to a 22-21 vic­tory over the Oakland Raiders. 
Elway, who had just 108 yards passing heading into the game's final live minutes, fin­ished 16-of-33 for 181 yards and two touchdowns. lie also ran for a career-high 71 yards, breaking the personal record he set last week. 
Elway also had a 10-yard scoring pass to Shannon Sharpe in the first quarter. 
Jason Elarn had field goals of 36, 43 and 28 yards for the Broncos (8-1 ). who shut down the Haiders until the final quar­ter. 
Jeff llostetler threw a pair of touchdown passes in the fourth period to give the Raiders a very short-lived 21-16 lead. Hostetler was 22-of-36 for 247 yards, but the Raiders' offense was ruined by 86 yards in penalties. 
The first Monday night game in Oakland in 15 years attract­ed the Raiders' first sellout of the season. With the Oakland Coliseum expanded to 62,500 during an offseason $129.4 mil­lion renovation, it was the largest crowd ever in Oakland. 
The Raiders used a no-huddle scheme in the fourth quarter to turn a tedious game into a bat­tle. 
The Broncos led 16-7 when Hostetler rallied the Haiders with scoring passes of 15 yards to Derrick Fenner and 42 yards to Tim Brown with 5:01 left. 
But it took Elway just 47 sec­onds to drive the Broncos 73 yards to victory. Smith beat Lorenzo Lynch and Larry Brown by three steps to catch the touchdown pass from Elway, who pump-faked and then lofted the ball to Smith. 
The opening minutes of the game were not as smooth for Elway. 

Lynch intercepted Elway on the game's second play, return­ing the ball to the Denver 27. Four plays later, Hostetler ran 5 yards through a gaping hole for the touchdown. 
The Broncos responded with an 11-play drive kept alive by an 18-yard scramble by Elway on third down. Six plays later, Elway scrambled to avoid two Oakland would-be sackers and threw his scoring pass to Sharpe. 
Cole Ford appeared to kick a 25-yard field goal on Oakland's next possession, but a penalty undermined the Raiders. An illegal procedure call nullified the kick, and Ford then missed from 30 yards. 
That blown scoring chance seemed to deflate the Raiders, who didn't get another first down in the half. 
Elam, meanwhile, kicked field goals of 36 and 43 yards -the latter just 31 seconds before halftime-to give Denver a 13­7lead. 
After a scoreless and tedious third period, Elam kicked a 28­yard field goal to cap an 11­play drive and give the Broncos a 16-7 lead with 4:52 gone in the fourth quarter. 
The Raiders, whose offense had been stymied by penalties since the first period, then turned to the no-huddle and suddenly came to life. 
Hostetler led Oakland on a 64-yard drive, floating a pass to a wide open Fenner in the right flat for the touchdown that pulled the Haiders within two points with 7:20 left. 
After the Broncos failed to pick up a first down on their next possession, Hostetler needed just two plays to give Oakland the lead. He threw a 12-yard completion to Brown, and then hooked up with Brown on a scoring pass on which cornerback Ray Crockett fell down. 
Elway needed just six plays to rally the Broncos, hooking up with Smith for the touchdown to give Denver a 22-21 lead. The Broncos went for a two­point conversion, but failed. 
The Raiders got the ball back, but had to punt and Denver ran out the clock. 
• SPORTS EXTRA 
Interhall Baseball Title Game: 
Keough Kangaroos 
3 
Flanner Gamecocks 0 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The Observer accepts classtfieds every busmess day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 

Participants needed for studies in ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR NEED 3 PITT STUDENT GA's Do you know memory, language, & perception. ND-SMC EVENTS. PARENTS HATE YOU? Call John @ 243-1935 LARA WAL TEAS 
NOTICES 

call Dr. Radvansky at 631-64 73 IDEAL FOR FOOTBALL WEEK-Sell me their Rutgers TIX ADAM WEILER 
ENDS. Make FAT cash SOUNDGARDEN IN CHI. Sat 11/9. KEVIN CARRIGAN SPRING BREAK Travel Free VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Jerry at 4-1796 At Aragon, have 2 extras. Best GRETA ZANDSTRA? Organize a Small Group Earn $$$ Hundereds of Students Are Earning 243-0656. Offer. 271-7759. Come see them in Cancun Jamaica Bahamas Free Spring Break Trips & Money! WHO'S AFRAID OF VIRGINIA Package includes 2 meals + 3hrs. SellS Trips & Go Free! Bahamas Desperate for Rutgers tix!! PITT&RTGRS WOOLF? Nov 6 and 9-7PM Lab all-u-can drink daily. Don Surf & Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica FOR SALE $$Will Pay$$ 1 STU BOOK Theatre Wash. Hall Sun (600)763-5606. $399, Panama City/Daytona $119! Please call Amanda at 2 MARRIED STU BOOKS 
www.springbreaktravel.com 69 JeepWrangler-2 sets tires & (301)314-6671 232-2566 BALLROOMDANCEBALLROOM 
1-600-676-6366 doors,4"1ift kit, hard & bikini tops. or send email to BALLROOM DANCE TONIGHT IN INTERRACE MEETING 100K $5000/best -269-6649. adew@wam.umd.edu. Buy 4 tks NO/Rutgers STEPAN CENTER LEARN THE WEDNESDAY, NOV. 6 No std -pref. side In WEST COAST SWING! CSC-COFFEE HOUSE YOUR LOVING CARE, 3 LOVING I Need PITT Student or GA's. Call Peter 1-600-7 46-3755 DON'T FORGET THE TIME 
TICKETS

DINNER AND DISCUSSION KIDS, MY HOME, Greg at 273-1007 CHANGE: THE NEW TIME IS STARTING@ 5:30PM M.W AFTERNOONS, GOOD$. 1 pair BC-Notre Dame football tix 6:00-6:00 PM TOPIC: "INTERRACIAL DATING" 277-9079 NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED Need 1 Pitt GA or Stud. ticket -Nov 9 Best offer 617-730-9747 
RSVP @ 1-6641 INTERESTED IN MAKING ALL GAMES HOME please call Sinead x1759. MISSING: EUREKA TENT, FOLD­EXTRA MONEY? AND AWAY TICKETS WANTED. NO Alum ED IN GREEN BAG. VERY LARGE PHYSICAL THERAPY 232-0056 HELP! needs 4 ND-BC. Not a scalper. Call LOVED.REWARD OFFERED FOR 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and PRACTICE LOOKING FOR PEO-24 HRS. Student needs Rutgers GA's Anton, 617-327-6146 days, 617-RETURN. AMY@634-3525. Breakfast Inn has space available PLE TO MAKE FOLLOW-UP BUY -SELL -TRADE for family. 327-6146 eves. THANK YOU. for football wknds. 5 Rooms with PHONE CALLS TO SEE HOW Call Mark at x1467 
private baths, $70 -$90, OUR PATIENTS ARE DOING. FIL-TICKET-MART, INC. In Thanksgiving for the intercession 
PERSONAL

Middlebury, 30 miles from campus. lNG ALSO AVAILABLE. FLEXIBLE 2 PITT GA'S FOR SALE X 0761 of Saint Rita of Cascia for a special Toll Road, Exit #107, HRS. CALL GERARD/DOUG WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S favor. 1-600-416-9467 233-5754 ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! 
232-0061. $$ I need Pitt GA's $$ COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! New Seminar Opportunity in Spring Break Bahamas Party Looking for a fun & experienced Call Wendy@ x1360 COLOR COPIES ON CAMPUS! Chicago Cruise! 6 Days $279! Includes All babysitter for a 3 & 2 year old. FOR SALE 2 GA's ALL HOME NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED The highest quality full-color January 7-12, 1997 Meals, Free Parties. Taxes! Great Various hours, some afternoons. GAMES 235-3394 ALL GAMES HOME copies are now available at Sponsored by the CSC Beaches & Nightlife! Prices Only those who love kids & are will-AND AWAY THE COPY SHOP Chicago: City of Hope? 
Increase Soon-Save $50! spring-ing to play should call. $5/hr. Call ALUM NEEDS GA's 232-0056 LaFortune Student Center Come and See! breaktravel.com 1-600-676-6366 271-6643 & ask for Eve Petrucelli. for WASH, AF, PITT & RUTGERS 24 HRS. Phone #631-COPY Info session: Thursday, Nov. 7th 616-27 4-2990 M-F Bam-6pm BUY -SELL-TRADE 5:30-6:oo PM @ the esc 
Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break EASTERN EUROPE JOBS -Teach N.D. Football tickets bought & sold. TICKET-MART, INC. 0 DISCOVER THE COPY SHOP 0 Hangin' Out in Harlan ­Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From basic conversational English in 219-232-2376 a.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Appalachia 1996 COAP South Bend $419! Prices Increase Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No 266-2726 p.m. WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S Mon. 7:30am -Midnight Dairy Hut Soon-Save $50! Save $150 on• teaching certificate or European ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL Tues. 7:30am -Midnight Whitfield Mansion Food. Drinks! 111% Lowest Price languages required. Inexpensive TIX for every home game. 232-0061. Wed. 7:30am -Midnight A.D. Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com Room & Board + other benefits. For Call (301) 445-3955 Thur. 7:30am -Midnight plumbing and electricity -NOTI 1-600-676-6366 info. call: (206)971-3660 $$$$$$ Fri. 7:30am -7:00pm the cigarette holes in Tenille's 
ext.K55643 I NEED GA OR FACULTY TIXS Sat. Noon -6:00pm sweats Spring Break Panama City! NEED BCTIX! ALL HOME GAMES. Sun. Noon -Midnight Cumberland Gap/bonding with God 
Boardwalk Beach Resort! Best NATIONAL PARKS HIRING-As many as possible 272-6551 (closed home football Saturdays) Questions Hotel, Location, Price! 7 Nigh~ Positions are now available at CALL ANYTIME: 4-1362 Come on Ride the Train $1291 Daytona-Best Location $1391 National Parks, Forests, & Wildlife or (617) 626-1069 Cups
............. ..........................
Cocoa Beach Hilton $169! spring-Preserves. Excellent benefits + Spring Break Bahamas Party the mouse with maggots breaktravel.com 1-600-676-6366 bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620 ext. I need tickets for Pitt and Cruise! 6 Days $2791 Includes All TIMEOUT N55649 !@#$%"&•())('&"%$#@! or Rutgers... Meals, Free Parties, Taxes! Great MVP-SBJ I NEED PITT TICKETS!! I Beaches & Nightlife! Prices Peggy's burps smell like garlic 
ILOST & FOUND I 

ALASKA EMPLOYMENT-Perferably Stud Tkt. Converted to Call Bryan or Dennid Increase Soon -Save $50! spring-Russ posing in lhe mirror Students Needed! Fishing Industry. GA... at breaktravel.com 1-600-676-6366 Eddie LOST AT P.E. FORMAL-A NAVY Eam up to $3,000-$6,000+ per CALL 4-4217 ... 273-2612 the boys in their nighties 
...........................
BLUE DOUBLE BREASTED month. Room and Board! !@#$%"&.())('&"%$#@! Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break Russ: "If you learn anything from SPORT JACKET. IF FOUND, Transportation! Male or Female. No Specials! 7 Nights Air & Hotel From Appalachia, it is to be open about PLEASE CONTACT MARK AT experience necessary. Call Help!! I need Rutgers GAs!! n. d. tickets for sale South Bend $4191 Increase Soon -your dumps." X3677. (206)971-3510 extA55646 Please call X3666. 271 1635 Save $50! Save $150 On Food, Lester 
WANTED FOR RENT 
Drinks! 111% Lowest Price Tenille: "Oh Carl" ALUM NEEDS RUTGERS TIX NEED BC & WASH TIX Guarantee! springbreaktravel.com Bill: "Manual labor. I know about CALL 773-525-3170 W/BO 312-951-5006 1-600-676-6366 manual labor!" 
I I 
Russ: "I'm feelin' it! I'm feelin' it!" 

Notre Dame students WALK TO CAMPUS NEED 3 RUTGERS GA's NEED 2 RUTGERS TIX TIM CORBITT IS THE COOLEST, PART-TIME WORK 2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES Call Rob X3014 Call Pat X3015 PARTIEST GUY EVER TO LIVE IN $1 0.25/starting 232-2595 
LAFAYETTE SEATILE (AP)-The Seattle Flexible hours around classes. Wanted: 2-3 G.A.s for N.D. vs. Pitt. Beer, Money, and Lavish Praise in Mariners today signed their 20­
........,............................... 

Scholarships/Internships available .. 7 MO. LEASE 1/97-7/97 Call X4664, no student tix please! exchange for 3 tix to Rutgers. 506-year-old rookie phenom to a deal Eve. and wknd. hours a.vailable. College Park Condo 2 bed, 2 full 339-7497 CLASS OF 1996 that could keep the star playing in Transportation necesary. bath. wood floor. wash/dry, vaulted 4 SALE: Two Pitt student or GA Miss your friends that are study-the Kingdome for some time. Terms For details call 262-2357 ceil, porch, furniture avail. tixs. Call X3950 Buy/sell ND Pitt & Rutgers tickets-ing abroad? Send them a note in of the deal were not disclosed, but ATTN: Native Japanese speaker. BEAUTIFUL! Check our price 67 4-7645. the Class Council Care Packages. the rookie, wearing No. 75, said, Tuitor needed. $6+hr. 273-2560 I NEED AIR FORCE TIX: STU-Drop them off at the Class office "Hey, it's not about the money. It's Call 243-9376 lv mssg. DENT CONVERTED GA'S, STU-BC TIX WANTED (213 LaFortune). Include name and about the uniforms." ----------Four Bedroom Home DENT TIX, OR GA'S. CALL alum seeks tix for BC game address on the envelope and we'll Atlanta Braves manager Bobby NEED APT/HOUSE NEAR Close to ND MEGHAN @232-7639 call Paul @ 634-3973 make sure they get there! Cox, who had been rumored to be
...................,.....................

CAMPUS OVER XMAS Safe with use of all utilities and courting the player, could not be Parents visiting for 2 weeks kitchen privileges. PLEASE. For Sale-TWO USC GA's reached for comment. email jmuller@nd.edu $275 per month NEED 1 GA FOR BC. Face Value .... Adorable kitten and/or cat. Free. if you can help. Call Paul @ 232-2794 CALL 4-3112 Call X1466 Call243-1362 Stay Sharp Ginzu! 
Tuesday, November 5, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Runners capture fourth place at conference meet 


By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Writer 
In the closest Big East men's meet in history, the Notre Daine cross country squad finished in fourth place, trailing the win­ning team by only five points. The meet took place in Boston, Mass. on November 1. 
"It was ridiculous to be that close," said cross-country coach Joe Piane, whose team slipped a little from last year's third place finish. 
Notre Dame, ranked No. 12 in the nation, was one of the three nationally ranked teams to run in the meet, along with the ninth ranked Providence Friars and the No. 13 Georgetown Hoyas. The three teams en­tered the meet to challenge for the title and did not disappoint. 
Providence nosed out the pack with 76 points to continue its dominance of Big East cross­country. This was the Friars second straight Big East cham­pionship and the 11th in the school's history.The Hoyas fin­ished in second place, with 79 points. Hoya Brook Klintz won the race with a time of 23:49. A surprising third-place team, St. John's, entered the meet unranked and edged out the Irish for the "bronze" position. The Red Storm had two top-five finishers, and used these low scores to cruise for the rest of the meet. 
"I have never seen a meet that close," said Piane. "To have four team within five points is amazing. Unfortunately, we were got the short end of the stick." 
Jason Rexing ran one of the best races of his career, finish­ing in second place only eight­hundredths of a second off the pace. Derek Seiling was the second Irish runner to cross the finish line, he finished with a time of 24:06. The time was good enough for eighth place, which was three notches shy his fifth place finish from a year ~go. Matt Althoff finished in 


GW SEMESTER IN WASHINGTON 
Graduate School of Political Management The George Washington University 
Spring 1997 
An Intensive Program in Political Management for Qualified Undergraduates 
* 
Learn from Washington, DC's political rv-c{e5-?i0(\~~7 

* 
Produce TV & Radio ads, construct opinion polls, stage media events, conduct field research, and more 

* 
Make co(\()ecTior'\7 to launch your career 

* 
Attend "ir'ls.idev-" special events 



STILL ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR JANUARY ADMISSION 
For more information, and to receive an 
application, contact: (800) 367-4776, 
(202) 994-6000, or http://www.gwu.edu/-gspm. 
Look for our brochure at your school's Career Center or Political Science Department. 
GW is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution. 

Creative Control. 
11th position with a time of 24:13, Because all three fin­ished in the top 15, they each received all-Big East accolades for their performances. 
Tom Englehardt ran one of his best races of the season, and was the fourth Notre Dame runner to cross the finish line. He finished in 30th place. Joe Dunlop rounded out the Irish qualifiers at 32nd. 
"Rexing, Seiling, Althoff, Englehardt, and Shawn McManus ran great," said Piane. 
The Irish now prepare to qualify for the NCAA's at the District IV meet in Illinois on November 16. The Irish fin­ished second last year and hope to finish strongly again this year. Schools from the Big-10 and Mid-American conference, Iowa and Notre Dame will make up competition. Four national1y ranked teams in Michigan, Wisconsin (won last year's meet). Michigan State and Notre name should com­pete for the meet title. 
"I think it (the Big East cham­pionships) was a wake-up call for those who didn't run as well as they are capable of run­ning," said Pian e. "They know they have to do well at the District IV meet. If they don't do well, we won't send a team to the NCAA meet." 

• MEN's TENNIS 
Freshman sparkles in collegiate debut 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame advanced two men's singles tennis players to the semifinals of the ITA Rolex region IV Championships in East Lansing, Mich. Sunday. Junior Jakub Pietrowski and freshman Ryan Sachire won quarterfinal matches to set up the all-Irish semifinal between the two teammates who met Monday for a spot in the finals. 
The second-seeded Pietrowski won a 6-4, 7-6 (8-6) match over No. 6 seed Alex Witt of Northwestern. Pietrowski had won three three-set matches to advance to Sunday's quarterfinal. 
Sachire had a much easier route to the quarterfinals with his three straight-set matches on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday though, eighth-seeded Jerry Turek of Illinois routed 
~~· 
CIGNA 
A Business ofCaring. 
Internet Address: http://wvvw.cigna.com 
Intelligence. Crcdcnti;:lls. Ambition. This powerful combination needs only one thing more. 1\ venue in which to excel. CIGNA, for example. 
We're 44,000 people strong. We're 96 billion dollars big. We're five continents across. We're he<J!th care. We're insurance. We're investment management. And we're covering new ground in a world of financial services designed to do good things for good people. 
If you're looking for a place where you can exercise care and creativity-as well as control over your career, come with us. And accept the challenge of leadership. 
We would like to invite you to an information session hosted by Ed Hanaway, President of CIGNA HealthCare. 
Dnte:  November 7, 1996  
Time:  6:00-8:00p.m.  
Location:  University Club, Mnin Louizge  
Open to all students.  

~Ve'rc a11 equal Ol'f'Otlunill" cntplo;w. M/F/V/E "C/GNA" rc(crs to C[(;,\'.-1 ami/or o11e or more o( it.\ subsidiaries. Most employees are employed by subsidiaric.\ o(CI<;N,\ Corporation. ll'lticlt prol'idc i11srmr11Ce a11d related products. 
the freshman 6-0 in the first set before Sachire rallied for a 6-3, 6-4 win in the last two sets. Sachire extended his impressive debut, as he advanced to the finals with a 7­6, 6-4 win over Pietrowski. His run at the title was cut short by Purdue's Jamie Gordon, who took the match 7-6, 3-6, 6-1. 
In doubles action, Notre Dame's No. 3 seeded duo of Pietrowski and Brian Patterson dropped their semifinal match to the top-seeded team of Derek Myers and Chris James of Purdue. The pair lost a 9-8 (7-5) match as James and Myers advanced to the finals to face Turek and Brady Blain. Turek and Blain had earlier ousted a squad from Notre Dame in the third round 8-6. 
Notre Dame returns to action at the Ice Vollies in Minneapolis, November 8-10. 


-
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 5, 1996 
• COllEGE FOOTBALL 

Accused Eagles deny charges 
By JIMMY GOLEN 
Associated Press Writer 
NEWTON, Mass. 
Lawyers for four Boston College football players at the center of gambling allegations said Monday their clients never bet on their own games. 
"We're confident when every­thing is said and done that they'll be exonerated of any­thing that smacks of illicit bet­ting on the BC football team," attorney John McBride said in a telephone interview. 
"They play football for BC, They study for BC, where they are sophomores. All they want to do is clear their names, their families' names and the school's name." 
McBride's partner, Bill Keefe, 

-
said athletic director Chet Gladchuk told him that none of the players would be suspended and they would be allowed to play Saturday against No. 17 Notre Dame. 
Gladchuk. who could not be reached for comment Monday, had stressed earlier that there was no evidence of any game-
Defense 
continued from page 20 
doll. 
"We tried to take their quar­terback out of the game. We did not want their quarterback beating us running the foot­ball," commented Davie. 
The result of these changes was quite a tangible one. Unlike the Air Force game, in which the Irish defense pro­duced zero turnovers, Navy coughed up the ball twice. Wynn returned a fumble for a touchdown and Kory Minor picked off a pass, for a total of three turnovers caused by the Irish defense. Navy coach Charlie, Weatherbie acknowl­fixing or point-shaving but said the investigations were neces­sary to clear the program's rep­utation. 

"Gladchuk stated on the record these four are not under suspension and that they are expected to play on· Saturday and participate in practice-this week," Keefe said. "None of these four were involved in any kind of sports betting with Boston College." . 
While Keefe stopped short of denying that the players ever gambled on other games, he noted that they could not have been shaving points or fixing games unless they bet on their own games. 
Gladchuk met Monday with the four players. who had taken part in a heated meeting Saturday with the team's stu­dent captains and coach Dan Henning. 
The four stormed out of the meeting Saturday, past reporters who had watched through the windowed door. 
"What my clients wanted to do was to clear the air that they did not at any time do anything 
edged the significant effect of the big-play Irish defense. In particular, he noted that Wynn's touchdown was a turn­ing point in the game. 
"That was a big play," com­mented Weatherbie. "You can't afford to give up what we did in terms of big plays." 
With this conquest under their belt, the Irish defense must now turn its eyes to Boston College. The wish­bone/option attacks employed by the Falcons and Midshipmen may have been complex, and at times confusing, but do not think that the Eagles are going to be a walk in the park. 
Although they do not use the option as a primary weapon, they do utilize a multi-forma­tion attack, including a three to throw a game at BC," McBride said. ''I'm sure that their leaving the meeting tend­ed to aggravate some of the feelings that existed." 
The comments came even as the team retreated to a rare closed practice in preparation for Saturday's game -BC's biggest of the year. 
"Everybody is planning and practicing to play in that game," Henning said in a hasti­ly called and hastily ended news conference. "It is a diffi­cult task to get ready for Notre Dame. This makes it tougher." 
Rumors of players betting on college football -perhaps even betting on themselves to lose ­intensified on campus this weekend after Thursday's loss to Pittsburgh, a game in which BC had been favored by 11 1/2 points. 
The school said it would investigate and asked for an in­vestigation by the Middlesex County District Attorney. The Boston Herald reported that the FBI has begun investigating, to which Henning said, "The FBI is not here." 
tight end set. In order to keep the Eagle offense under. wraps, the struggling Irish secondary knows it must step up and take charge. Their play against the run in Ireland was commend­able, but too many big pass plays, could have been disas­trous. 
With the Golden Eagles on the horizon, the Irish know they must be prepared for an always difficult opponent after a tiring trip overseas. However, in those moments when they are not cramming their heads with Boston College scouting reports, the members of the Irish defense can sit back and recall their Blarney Bash in Ireland, knowing that indeed they did stop the wishbone offense. 
Playoffs 
continued from page 20 
Alumni's offense just could not produce after the opening scor­ing drive. The Fisher line, questionable at times during the regular season, looked ab­solutely infallible after the early mishaps. While the offense was struggling, the defense stepped up their game to prevent Fisher from taking a halftime lead. The secondary in particular came up huge for Alumni, intercepting a Fisher pass deep in Alumni territory. 
Things just fell apart for Alumni as the second half went on. The defensive line, the stalwart of the Alumni team, allowed some of the biggest rushes of the year. mostly to Fisher quarterback Alfredo Griffin. This would prove to be costly, as it was Griffin who scored the go ahead touchdown to put Fisher up 14-7, after three quarters. 
The final result of 14-7 keeps the defending champions alive. 
(6) Planner 6, (3) Zahm 0 
Flanner did the unexpected to defeat heavily favored Zahm. 

The 'Cocks used the run etrec­tively against one of the best run defenses in the league, and scored a touchdown on a scor­ing defense that allowed an av­erage of less than one point per game in the regular season. Flanner dominated the game early on both sides of the ball. Zahm opened the game up on the offensive side and found themselves up against a im­penetrable Flanner line. 
After trading a few series with each other, Flanner's offense took over the game. The run­ning corps, led by Drew Klosterman, ran through a Zahm line that usually allows no one through. The one and only scoring drive of the day was capped off by a Mike Daigler touchdown pass to put Flanner up 6-0. This was the final result, as Planner's de­fense allowed only one serious threat for the entire game. 
So the stage is set for what should prove to be the game of the year, a rematch of last year's championship: Flanner vs. Fisher. 
Other Scores: 
Sorin 7, Keough 0 Ofl'-Campus 14, Keenan 0 
The Saint Mary's College Ol!pilrtment ofMusic cordially invites you to the twentyjourtll annual 
Madrigal Dinners 
Please join us in Regina Hall, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, December sixth, seventh and eighth at seven each evening, plus a matinee on Sunday at two. 
Advance reseroations required, $24.75 per person.
-f%1­
SAINT Tickets on sale at tire Saint Mary's box office, located in MARY'S O'Laugl!lin Auditorium, 9-5 Monday-Friday.
COLLEGE 
Discover, Visa and MasterCard accepted at 219/284-4626.
NOTRE DAME. IN 



OwN A PIECE OF 
NoTRE DAME STADIUM 
$19.95 


''THE DOMER'' 
Now, you can own your very own piece of Notre Dame Stadium. This exclusively manufactured piece for students features an authentic piece of brick from the Stadium and a plate citing its origin mounted on a solid walnut base. A certificate of authenticity is affixed to the bottom. 
Pick up your "Domer" at: 

LaFortune Center Information Desk 9 a.m. -8 p.m. Mon. -Fri. 12 noon-8 p.m. Sat. & Sun. 
Please be sure to bring your J.D. card! (Limit one piece/person) 

Information meeting: 
November 7 (Thurs.) 
6:30 7:00 PM at the Center for Social Concerns 
find out how you can spend eight weeks in a 
•
social service agency and earn a $1700.00 
tuition and  scholarship 3 credits ~cc~~~­ 
50 C I-'> L CONCERNS  


-
ADVERTISEMENT 

• 
VOLUME 2, NUMBER 2 NOVEMBER 1998 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

DOING IT ••• 
Christy Oleniczak has proven My name is Colleen Henshaw, and I'm NIKE's 
Notre Dame student rep. It's my job to make cool things happen on campus, including this SportsPage, so if you 
5 
her love for athletics. 

I want to see something that's not here, let me know. Use my e-mail address: colleen.henshaw@nike.com.
Oleniczak, a junior from Grand D If you want to talk to NIKE HQ directly, use: sports.page@nike.com. 
Rapids, Michigan, competed in 
E 

Where did your NIKE shoes take you over fall four varsity sports in high school. L break? Across the Appalachian Trail? To the top of Mount Everest? If you'd like to find out more about how your outdoor interests and I adventures could link you to great NIKE stuff, send me an e-mail
After starting at point guard for 

with your name and campus address and wait for details to follow...N SOMEONE I know is planning a tailgater on the soccer fields right
the basketball team her 

across Douglas Road before the PITT game on November 16. She canE pretty much guarantee that the trip out there will be worth your while. 
5 Tiger's Time
out her knee just before the start of 

When 20-year-old Tiger Woods turned pro in late August, he had in mind a modest goal: to earn enough money in the remaining two months of the season
her senior year. She was forced to sit 

to automatically qualify for the PGA tour again next spring. Anything beyond that would be gravy. Well, pass the gravy.
out the season and rehab her injury. 
The first weekend in October, Woods won the Las Vegas
Despite this setback, Christy resumed her basketball career at Notre 
Invitational.The win clinched an automatic spot on the tour for the next two years and a check for $297,000. Two weeks later, Woods 
Dame. She plays interhall, Bookstore, and RecSports hoops. She also 
won the Walt Disney World/Oldsmobile Classic and $216,000. 
plays softball and volleyball and is co-captain of flag football power­
Woods has a chance to load up on even more gravy Thanksgiving weekend, and not just at the dinner table. 
house Pasquerilla East. "I had to play athletics," she 
The Skins Game is an annual made-for-television (ABC, 
specifically) event pitting four marquee golfers says. "There was never any doubt in my mind. I could 
against each other in an unorthodox format that rewards clutch never give it up." 
Sounds like love to me. Flag football players: Think CAMPUS CORRESPONDENT: you're ready to take your game to the national level? The NIKE College Flag Football
TIMOTHY S. MCCONN, JUNIOR regional tournament will be held November 29 through December 1 at Ohio State University. Winners receive an expenses-paid trip to the National Championship in New Orleans the week of the Nokia Sugar Bowl in late December. Contact Beau Rugg at (614) 292-7671 for more information. The 1996 NIKE College Flag Football Regional Championships are brought to you by B utterfinger. 
In creating this SportsPage, NIKE has made every effort to accurately present 
the time and location for upcoming athletic events on campus. We regret any 






schedule changes or mistakes. Ifyour club or intramural sport wasn't covered, 
I 2 WOMEN'S SOCCER/V
let your NIKE student rep know and we'll try again next month. 
FOOTBALL/V MOONLIGHT 

VS. OHIO STATE VS. NAVY 
MADNESS


ALUMNI FIELD, 7:30PM DUBLIN, IRELAND BASKETBALL EXTRAVAGANZA
CROSS COUNTRY/V VOLLEYBALL/V .IACC. 7 PM
AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS AT PITTSBURGH 
HOCKEY/V
BOSTON. MA 
2:00PM 
AT BOWLING GREEN

HOCKEY/V 
VS. MICHIGAN, JACC. 7 PM 

9 

MEN'S IASKETBALL/V 

VOLLEYBALL/VMEN'S SOCCER/V 

FOOTBALL/V VOLLEYBALL/V
NBC (EXB.) 
VS. RUTGERSAT BOSTON COLLEGE AT BOSTON COLLEGE VS GEORGE MASON

JACC, 7:30PM 

JACC, 7:00PM
1:00PM 
(TV: CBS, 3:30 EST) JACC, 7:00PM 

HOCKEY/VWOMEN'S SOCCER/V WOMEN'S SOCCER/V WOMEN'S 
AT BOSTON COLLEGEVS. VILLANOVA BIG EAST TOURNAMENT 
IASKETBALL/V

ALUMNI FIELD. I :00 PM 
MEN'S SOCCER/V VS. LITHUANIAVOWYBALL/V 

BIG EAST QUARTERFINALS JACC, 1:00PM AT SYRACUSE, 2:00PM ALUMNI FIELD 


II 
12 14 

15 WOMEN'S SOCCER/V 
10 
13 
WOMEN'S MEN'S HOCKEY/V FOOTBALL/V CROSS COUNTRY/V

BIG EAST TOURNAMENT VS. FERRIS STATE
IASKETBALL/V IASKETBALL/V 

VS. PITTSBURGH AT NCAA DISTRICT IV MEET ALUMNI FJELD 
JACC, 7:00PMVS. DUTCH NATIONAL TEAM VS. AUSTRALIA (EXB.) 
STADIUM, I :30 PM CHAMPAIGN, IL 

MEN'S SOCCER/V 
JACC. 

WOMEN'S (TV: NBC, I :30 PM)JACC, 
VOLLEYBALL/¥
7:00PM

BIG EAST QUARTERFINALS 
7:30PM 

BASKETBALL/¥ MEN'S SOCCER/V AT CONNECTICUT VOLLEYBALL/¥ 
VS. KENT BIG EAST SEMIFINALS/FINALS 2:00PM VS. SETON HALL, JACC 
JACC, 4 PM PISCATAWAY, NJ 2:00PM 
20 
21 

22 23 MEN'S SOCCER/V 
I 

HOCKEY/V FOOTBALL/V HOCKEY/V
BIG EAST SEMIFINALS/FiNALS AT BOWLING GREEN 
VS. RUTGERS AT MIAMI (OHIO) STADIUM, I :30 PM 

PISCATAWAY, NJ 
WOMEN'SVOLLEYBALL/¥ 

!TV: NBC, I :30 PM)AT ST. JOHN'S, 2:1111 PM 

IASKETBALL/VVOLLEYBALL/¥HOCKEY/V 

AT BOWLING GREEN VS. MANKATO ST.. JACC, 2PM 
BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 
1:30PM 

AT UNIV. OF PITTSBURGH AT WNIT TOURNAMENT 
W /BASKETBALL/V 
26 VOLLEYBALL/¥ 
24 25 
CROSS HOCKEY/V VOLLEYBALL/¥ FOOTBALL/V HOCKEY/V

VS. WASHINGTON STATEVS. LAKE SUPERIORBIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 
COUNTRY/V 

AT USC AT FERRIS STATE AT UNIV. OF PITTSBURGH 
JACC, 7:00 PM STOCKTON, CA, 5:00PMAT NCAA 

VOLLEYBALL/¥HOCKEY/VMEN'S IASKETBALL/V MEN'S IASKETBALL/V

CHAMPIONSHIPS 

VS. PACIFIC/SOUTH FLORIDA VS. MONMOUT/1 
AT FERRIS STATETUSCON, AZ VS. YOUNGSTOWN STATE 
STOCKTON,CA JACC. 2:00PM 
JACC, 7:30PM 
V:Varslty I C:Ciub I !:Intramural 

THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTSPAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SP~lRTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND (HIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 


_.. 
... 


.. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 5, 1996 
• SMC VOLLEYBAll • MEN's SWIMMING
• 
Belles dominate, Irish edged out by Cardinals 
defend home court 
By ANGELA OLSEN 
Saint Mary's Sports Editor 
"A big team effort!" 
These words were used by Saint Mary's College head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek to describe how the Belles man­aged to win both of their matches Saturday in their home quadrangular. The Belles were on a roll this week­end as they defeated Franklin College 15-11, 16-14, 15-17, 15-5 and DePauw University 15-7, 15-8, 15-2. 
"They got their competitive drive back," said Schroeder­Hick. 
The Belles squared off against Franklin in their first match of the day. Their aggressive play and solid cov­erage were enough to hold off the Grizzlies for the first two sets, but in the third Franklin stepped up their level of play and caused problems for the Belles. In a see-saw battle, the Belles fought for control of the set. 
"It was side in and side out," said freshman defense special­ist Katie Candiano. "In the end it came down to who had the last mistake." 
The Belles lost the third 15­once again in the fourth set and dominated from the begin­ning, winning it 15-5. 
In their second match of the day the Belles faced off against DePauw. 
"We thought they were going to be so good," said Meyer. "We came out ready to play at their level." The Belles played consistently throughout and were able to close out the match in three straight sets. 
Junior outside attacker Meg Kelly had a solid day for the Belles both offensively and de­fensively. 
"Not too many balls went past her," commented Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belles also found solid play in freshman outside hitter Mary Rodovich. 
"She played both on the left and right said," said Schroeder-Biek. "That's a hard mental transition, but she did a good job." 
Looking ahead to their next and final match, the Belles will be practicing hard this week and playing scrimmage games. 
"Our big goal is to get that 20th win," said Schrocder­Biek. With a 19-13 record, the Belles are clear about what they need to do next. 
17. 
"We were mad that we lost that game," said Junior Kelly Meyer. "We decided that we were going to win the match then and there." 
The Belles came out strong 
Please Recycle the Observer 

CROFUT & BRUBEC 
SPONSORED BY 
The Elkhart Concert Club Bringing the STARS to Elkhart for 
45 GREAT YEARS 
Bill Crofut and Chris Brubeck team up for a live concert on November 6, 1996 at 7:30pm at the 
ELCO Performing Arts Center 
Downtown Elkhart, (219) 293-4469 

Think ofus 
as yourscHool bus. 

semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare. the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your !ravel agent or call 
800-833-5555 

-
I I~ITI=n II~AO 
Vi ~i i i..~ i..ii i i'V' 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare &Midway, All Day... Every Day 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Sports Writer 

On Saturday, in a meet that was decided in the last race of the day, the Notre Dame men's swimming and diving team fell just six points short of victory at Ball State University. In an exciting meet, the Irish and the Cardinals exchanged leads five times before Ball State pulled away in the last race. 
"We have improved this sea­son from week to week," stated Irish head coach Tim Welsh. "We lost to Ball State by 30 points last year and this year it came down to the final race." 
Notre Dame, which falls to 1­1 after a win at Western Ontario last week, battled throughout the whole meet. Down 13-4 after the first event, Irish swimmers Scott Zumbach, John Lubker, and Sean Casey took the top three spots in the 1000-yard freestyle, propelling Notre Dame to a 20-16 lead. 
This lead was short-lived as the Irish fell behind and trailed Ball State 56-37 after five events. 
However, the Irish rallied and, by virtue of Zumbach, Ry Beville, and Rich Murphy sweeping the first three places in the 200-yard butterfly, gained a slim 66-65 advantage. This advantage was soon dis­placed and, after ten events, Notre Dame was down 106-82 with only three events remain­ing. 
Still, the Irish refused to quit. Another Irish sweep in the 500­yard freestyle by Wes Richardson, Lubker, and Robert Fetter combined with senior captain Matt Rose, Steele Whowell, and Tony Fonseca placing first, third, and fourth, respectively in the 200­yard breaststroke, cut the deficit to 114-112 with one race remaining. Notre Dame came up short in this last event, the 400-yard freestyle, as Ball State placed first and third to narrowly defeat the Irish. 

Although it is tough losing such a close meet, Coach Welsh was able to take solace in the improvement and the heart of the Irish swimmers in this meet. 
"I was impressed by our per­formance," commented Welsh. "We had great races from the freestylers, gutsy performances from the breaststrokers, and our relays improved signifi­cantly." 
In addition to those men­tioned above, other Irish swim­mers who placed in the top three in their events included Hay Fitzpatrick, Chris Fugate, Hon Hoyer, Herb Huesman, Jeff Page, and Peter Mehok. 
Notre Dame swims again at Boston College on November 8 and at the University of Connecticut on November 10 before returning home to host the University of Pittsburgh. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

CSC Open Discussion on Multiculturalism, Diversity and Notre Dame's National Position in preparation for Notre Dame's participation in a national collegiate teleconference on diversity on November 13. 
For further information Contact: CSC Director, Rodney Cohen at 1-5293 
AMONG THE WORST The following is a recent survey by the Princeton Review* of the "Best" and "Worst" campuses for Race Relation 
Institutions with the Best Race Relation Institutions With The Worst Race Relation 
I. West Point I. Miami University 
2. 
Naval Academy 2. Vanderbilt University 

3. 
Copper Union J. Villanova University 

4. 
N.C. School of the Arts 4. Hampden-Sydney College 

5. 
Eastman School of Music 5. Washington and Lee 

6. 
St. John's College (Md) 6. St. Lawrence University 

7. 
Bennington College 7. Cornell University 


B. Cal Tech B.UCSB 
9. 
Boston Conservatory 9. Emory University 

10. 
Harvey Mudd College 10. University of Vermont 


I I. Marlboro College II. Duke University 
12. Julliard School 12. Syracuse University IJ. S.F. Conservatory of Music I J. University of Notre Dame 
14. 
Mount Holyoke College 14. Baylor University 

15. 
Whittier College 15. University of Richmond 

16. 
Simon's Rock College of Music 16. Fairfield University 

17. 
Berklee College of Music 17. Gettysburg College 

18. 
Bryn Mawr College 18. Providence College 

19. 
New College of University of South Florida 19. Boston College 

20. 
Parson's School of Design 20. Northwestern University 


• The Princeton Review is not affiliated with Princeton University Source: The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education, No. 13 
-
Tuesday, November 5, 1996 
CREAM 0' THE VALLEY ROAO 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 




TO WA~TE lT ON FUTURE ~: DOWN5IZ.EE5 SUCH A.S ~ YOUR.5ELVE5. ) ~ 

,&:='ih'lC----1 ~ 
0> 
g 

~~~----~~ 
~ 
held on Thursdays. Nov. 7, 14, 21st from 4 to 5:30

'--------------....J\fj~IL.I.....::;._ _..:::.._..:::....._______.~~I-----...,.:::..,;-----:;I~..::J./------l 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 "Our Gang" producer Hal &K1nd of nerve 11 Marned 14 Get used (to) 15 Madnd museum 16 "Are you a man --mouse?" 17 Forestry worker? 19 Stoolie 20 Queen of Eng. 21 Mine material 22 "-Fideles" 24 Tennessee Williams's "The Nigh.~ of the 
27 Old Pon!lacs 28 Clear as-­30 Money held by 
a third party 
33 Stage 34 French farewell 35 Actress 
Thurman 38 Actor Yves 40 Newswoman 
Norville 42 Diet. entry 43 Ruckus 45 Sculptures on 
pedestals 46 Day to wear a bonnet 48 The Divine 
MissM 49 Take apart 51 Rodeo entrants 53 Aspirin, e.g. 56 Former Rep. 
Rostenkowski 57 Word between Friends 61 "-monkey's uncle'" 

&2 Ocean liners' 
employees? 65 100 yrs. 66 Lacks, in brief 
&7 Some change 68 Make sense, 
with "up" &9The end 10 Vice President 
Agnew 
DOWN 

1 "Interview With the Vampire" author Anne 
2ScottTurow book 3 German car 
maker 4 Most zany s That girl 6 "Pagliacci," for 
one 7 Dressed fussily a Little bit 9 Brainstorm 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Big stack of 


MELEEICELTIDAUB A C U T E A G A R A R N 0 W H I R L I N G D E R 1/ I S H 
R 0 S EltBE I D E R B E N A D D E R S BATH 0 S B A wfl~ A P I AN. P A R E E ·~~~ 
~~~HEWORLDTURNS 
~ I P S B E N D E R

·CWTfW'•c,
B E A T I T F A R AXMAN.USER SCAM 
s p I Rl L s T AIR cAs E S E N T 0 M I T H A V E N 
0 L D S W A R S 0 R E A D 
firewood 
11 Least appetizing sausage? 

12 Muse of poetry 13 Palm tree fruits 18Aretha 
Franklin's singing style 23 Freudian component 25 Twinkles 26 Out of the way 28 "Hey!" on the Hesperus 29 Outcast orchestra? 
----·-~-------­
-----------------------~ 
The Observer· TODAY page 19 
Fn T.FADFR 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
HAPPY BIRTHUAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: You will have a wonderful chance to discover where your talents lie. Consider a career change. New employment opportunities open up in education, sales and the hospitali­ty industry. Spring of 1997 will be an ideal time to travel for business. Potential clients and partners wi II be eager to hear what you have to say! Your love life will accelerate as next summer approaches. Plan a vacation for late summer or early fall. A child makes steady progress. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: basketball great Bill Walton, actress Tatum O'Neal. actress Elke Sommer, musician Ike Turner. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Independent business enterprises enjoy favorable influences. Your imagination and persistence will take you straight to the top. A new client may have romantic designs on you. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A good day to "catch up" at work. Enlisl subordinates' help in meeting a deadline. Legal matters crop Ufl. Seck lhc l1<"t counsel available. Love on the win~ will not suffice: you need stability: . GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Others find your ideas ahead of their lime. l'ul them on hold for now or seek public support. Low energy could be the result of inactivity. Get­ting some exercise everyday will work wonders. 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Tune in to lhe ideas and projects of your co-workers; you could learn a lo11You cannot afford to close your eyes to what is happening around you. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Stick to your ideals. Say "no" to people who 
TO 
• ·oF INTEREST 
JEANE DIXON 
just wanl to usc you. New puhl1. recognition or financial rewards aJ, forthcoming. Rely on old friend 
who knew you when. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221 Travel may be necessary to checl out a real estate deal. Being indcc1 sive will cause difficulties. Se~\. advice from experts if that wil make certain choices easier. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Lc go of the past and build forth. future. Putting down roots is mo1 important than ever. Banish a blu. mood by contacting a good friend. I is time to finalize your Thanksgh ing plans. . 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211 Someone at work or home may f:l, uncooperative today. Concentrate 01 projects you can handle alone. i parent may try to dominate yo" social schedule. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21 ): Not a good time to make . major career change. Keep a lo'· profile when around higher-ups. fl willing to work overtime if nece· sary. A parent may need financi 
assistance. 
CAPRICORN !Dec. 22-Ja 
191: Coordinat~ your schedule "i an associate· s. tl)en check tr<ll timetables. Your growing popular: will work to ')'UUT advantage wh" business is concerned. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. I~ A heavy workload requires certa: adjustments. Be willing to go tli extra mile for loyal, caring friend Depart from your normal schedL• to help ~omeone who has an emc 
gency. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20 Your ride to the top may include few interesting side trips. Enjoy t: di\'ersion. A romantic interlude m. prove more expensive than anti. pated. 
Self Assessment : The Key to Successful Career Decisions is a three session workshop for students beginning the career search process. Sessions will be 
p.m. in the Career and Placement Services Conference Room. Students are encouraged to attend all three sessions. Students must register at Career and Placement and COMPLETE ASSESSMENT TEST (45 
min.) BY November 6. 
Lecture and Prayer-Exploring Dominican Life will be presented on Wednesday. Nov. 6. from 9 to 10 p.m. in the Badin Hall Lounge. It will be a time of prayer, discussion and sharing. Pizza will be served. Badin's regular Wednesday evening mass will be held at 10 
p.m. following the discussion. All are welcome. For details call Sr. Mary Catherine 1~5490 or Sr. Teresita at 272-0498. 
Menus: 
North: Chicken and Dumplings Potato Skins Beef Noodle Soup 
South: Stir-fi-yChicken and Pea Pods Chicken & Cheese. Chimichangas )latatou,ille Spaghetti Pie 
31 Bee follower 32 Kind of match 33 Brit. leaders 34 Chicago's --­
Planetarium 36 Spouse 37 Sounds of 
salisfaclion 39Trawler's 
eqUipment 41 Get the better of 44 Wear1ng away 47 u.s. 
modem-driven company 48 Giovanni's 58 Prefix with 
Saint Mary's:
"good" sphere 
Cheese Quesidillas 
49 New York cily 59 Pitcher 
Santa Fe BBQ Cod 
so Christened &O Bygone oil 
Mashed Potatoes 
52 Macaroni, e.g. company 54 Reverberate &J Exploil 55 21-Across 64 Some LR 1\ 
carrier mvestmm~t~. 

Answers to any three clues in this punI~ are available by touch-tone phone 
Wanted: Reporters, 
1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minule). Annual subscriptions are ava•lable fo• 111~ best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
photographers and editors. 
50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Join The Observer staff. 




• I 
-
Register a Team in RecSports! 631-6100 
-~ ~------------~~--~­
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, November 5, 1996 
• fOOTBALL 

Linebackers key in shutting down Navy wishbone 
Minor, Irish contain option quarterback to halt Midshipmen 
By TIM MCCONN Sports Writer 

What a difference two weeks makes. 
Going from losing to the Air Force Academy 20-17 to defeating the Midshipmen of Navy 54-27 in the Shamrock Classic was a huge boost for the sagging Irish football team. Not only did they take the first step back to regaining their confidence, but the defense demonstrated that. despite criti­cism to the contrary, they could indeed shut down a wishbone attack. 
The obvious difference in the two con­tests. besides the fact that Notre Dame beat Navy, was the ability of Bob Davie's defense to shut down the main cog of any option attack: the quarterback. 
In particular. they brought Chris McCoy and the third-ranked Navy rush­ing attack to a screeching halt. 
"We knew that stopping the quarter­back was going to be the key," noted a jubilant Renaldo Wynn after Saturday's game.
• Linebacker Kory Minor concurred with Wynn's assessment. "We knew their quarterback (McCoy) was a great runner," said Minor. "We knew a lot could happen when he runs the ball. Our job was to stop him." 
Air Force quarterback Beau Morgan shredded the Irish defense two weeks ago for 183 yards rushing. However, this week, Navy quarterbaek McCoy ran 13 times for a whopping (negative) six­teen yards. 
As a team, Air Force ran for a total of 304 yards. On the other hand, Navy was only able to accumulate 184 yards on 55 carries, for an average of 3.3 yards per carry. 
How could the defense go from one such extreme to another? 
In the case of Air Force, because their players held Morgan to just 69 yards rushing in last year's 44-14 victory over the Falcons, the Irish coaching staff believed they could concentrate on con­taining the running backs, like Nakia Addison, who had given them fits in the two previous meetings. 
Not this time. 
By pinching down on the backs in an attempt to shut down the middle, the Irish defense became vulnerable on the outside. Morgan intelligently read the actions of the Notre Dame defensive linemen. Consequently, he made a habit of turning the play to the outside, usually cutting back to avoid the con­taining outside linebackers. As a result, Morgan was able to gain 5 or 6 yards on a consistent basis. 
However, the coaching staff would make no such mistake the second time around. Against Navy, they decided to stick with what had worked in the past. They implemented into the game plan a similar scheme to the one utilized against Morgan last year. By giving up some ground in the middle, linemen such as Wynn and Melvin Dansby, plus outside linebackers Minor and Bert Berry, had a field day with McCoy, throwing around the backfield like a rag 
see DEFENSE I page 16 


• MEN's INTERHAll 
• WOMEN'S INTERHALL 

Wave, 'Cocks advance to se01is 
Pyros overcome 
By ADRIAN WILKERSON SportS Writer 
An old sports aphorism goes, "That's why the games aren't played on paper." 
This statement can clearly be applied to the high volume of upsets that took place during this past weekend's interhall football playoff aelion. 
(7) Fisher 14, (2) Alumni 7 
The Alumni Dawgs· were poised for a determined run at the title that eluded them last year. llowever. history proved that it has a funny way of re­peating itself, as the Fisher Green Wave handed Alumni a stunning 14-7 upset. 
At the outset of the game, Alumni seemed ready to shake oil' tlw ghosts of last year's up­set at llw hands of Flanner. The Dawgs ruslwd out of the gate with an early touchdown. virtu ally running ovr~ r the

·-
Fislwr ddPnsive line. 
That's wlwn~ the year long dominancP by Alumni r~<UIW to an PrHI. AftPr stopping a J."islwr driw, .\lumni took over on tlwir own 25 yard lirw on a Fisher punt. Disaster then ball to Fisher on the Alumni 20 struck the Dawgs as the Fisher yard line. A short series by 

Farley, weather 

defensive line came to life. Fisher tied the score at 7-7 
They ripped through the early in the second quarter. 
Observer Staff Report 

Alumni offensive line and forced a fumble that gave the see PLAYOFFS I page 16 
The Pasquerilla East Pyros' win Sunday night over Farley's Finest continued the Pyros' winning streak. The Pyros have won every game this season and are anxiously awaiting the playoffs. 
Pyro captain, Kristen Tate remarked, "It was a good game against Farley and we are looking forward to doing well in the playoffs and hope­fully making it to the champi· onship." 
The battle between the Pyros and the Finest was fought early Sunday evening under the bright lights of Stepan Field. Both teams seemed anxious to play a quick game, hoping to mini­mize their time in the cold temperatures. 
Farley's Finest began the game looking to beat the undefeated Pyros. However, it was not long into the game when the Pyros showed their dominance. In the middle of the first half. quarterback Elizabeth Plummer seored a touchdown, giving the Pyros a 6-0 lead. Plummer did not score the two-point conver­sion. 


As the game continued, Farley began to move the ball, but was not able to score. When the Pyros recov· ered the ball, they made two more attempts to score. On first down, Plummer threw to Kerry Hanley. Hanley failed to catch the ball in the end zone. Again, Plummer tried to score by throwing a pass to Anne Searle who also missed the pass. 
Despite the unsuccessful passing in the second half. the Pyros were able show their fire in the darkness of the night. Melissa Gorman scored after catehing a pass from Plummer. Plummer then scored the two-point conversion. 
The final touchdown of the game was scored by Pyro Anne Searle. However, the touchdown was called baek for a clip and the final score was 14-0. 
Although Farley was disap­pointed with the loss, their spirits remained high. 
at Boston College, November 9, 9:30 p.m. 
• Harriers take fourth at Big East 
vs. Rutgers,
SPORTS 

·'* 
November 8, 7 p.m. 
Big East Tournament, 

~ 
see page 15
~ w
.. vs. Villanova,
ATA 

~. ~ 
'\ at Boston College, November 9, 11 a.m. 
\\ • Eagles refute allegations ofgambling 
-

\\... November 8, 7 p.m. see page 16
Big East Tournament, (·~ November 9 
GlANCE 
-



