
Inside: Presidential Endorsement, Candidate PlaUorms 

Friday, February 9, 1996• Vol. XXVII No. 86 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


The Observer/ Katie Kroener For the past 100 years, the Grotto has represented a place of peace, inspiration, and spirituality for the millions of people who have visited the campus. A nearby statue honors Saint Bernadette to whom visions of the Virgin Mary appeared. 
The Grotto: I 00 years of special memories 


Editor's Note: This is the second in a two-part series honoring the centennial of the Grotto at Notre Dame. 
By GWENDOLYN NORGLE 
A.sistan! News Editor 
There are several places on the campus of Notre Dame that are conducive to praying. But in the last one hundred years, there has been one spot that millions of people have found most peaceful, most inspiring and most holy. 
Because the Grotto is consid­ered by many to be hallowed ground, those millions return time and time again, usually tak­ing one special Grotto memory with them. 
What is contained in the rocks of the Grotto that continually compels people to return? 
"It's a really beautiful place," explained Lexy Jenkins, a Pangborn resident assistant, who has visited the Grotto numerous times as a Notre Dame student. 
The visit to the Grotto that 
see GROTTO/ page 4 

Kantor, Scully to accept new appoint01ents 
Special to The Observer 
Jeffrey Kantor,· professor and chair of chemical engineering at the University of 
Notre Dame, has been elect­ed vice president and asso­ciate provost of the University by it Board of Trustees. Kantor's appoint­ment was announced jointly by Board chairman Andrew MaKenna and University President Father Edward 


Malloy. Kantor The Board at the same 
see KANTOR/ page 10 
Harmeyer: Key to relationships is communication 
By STEPHANIE VILLINSKI 
News Writer 
For most people a good relationship between a man and a woman can be confusing and at times seem almost impossible, according to Professor Ella Harmeyer of the Saint Mary's nursing department who spoke yesterday afternoon, in celebration of women's week. 
Harmeyer has been with the SMC nursing department for twelve years. She teaches Pub­lic Health Nursing for nursing majors and Women's Health for the non nursing majors. She is currently on sabbatical. 
About twenty people, mostly students, were in attendance to listen to Harmeyer's lecture entitled "Relationships and Self Esteem." The lecture was a relaxed atmosphere with Harmeyer stepping away from the podium to address questions from the audience. 
The lecture began with Harmeyer saying 
see RELATIONS/ page 4 




Peace Corps impacts lives of ND volunteers 
By DEREK BETCHER 
News Writer 
Although he may not have had Notre Dame's student body specifically in mind, Sen. John F. Kennedy of Massaehusetts touched upon specific qualities ND students have always em­hoditld when he made a proposal for a Peace Corps in his 1960 presidential election eampaign. 
Kennedy dtlelared, "There is not enough money in all America to relieve the misery of the underdeveloped world in a giant and endless soup kitehnn, but there is enough know-how and knowledgeable people to help those nations to help themselvns." Little could Kennedy or any of his eontmnporaries have known how much know-how and how many knowledge­able people Notre Dame would eventu­ally send abroad in conjunction with the l'eaee Corps. 
In the thirty-five years since the l'mtee Corps' inception, Notre Dame has stwn 356 of its graduates serve in the goodwill organization. Presently nirwteen alumni are in the field, in countries ranging from Swaziland to Thailand to the Ukraine. Their assign­nwnts have them helping underdevel­
oped countries improve their educa­tion, business, environment, agricul­ture, and health. Furthermore, there are nearly a dozen current students looking to join their ranks. 
"This was a really good recruiting class," said Brian Hennekes, the Peace Corps' Notre Dame recruiter. lie added, "The general trend is that we're doing better. I'm meeting more people every time I come. We're getting more volunteers." He noted that for recent classes, the average year has seen any­where from five to ten Notre Dame alumni accepted into the active service. 
Past, present, and future Notre Dame volunteers all agree that the Peace Corps can make a dramatic impact on a participant's life. 
Paula Brush is a past Peace Corps volunteer. Prior to seeking her MSA at Notre Dame, Brush spent three years working in Latin America-an experi­ence she'll never forget. 
"My whole perspective on life is dif­ferent. What's important and what's not has really been refocused for me," Brush said. 
After her 1990 graduation, Brush spent three months in an intensive cul­tural, and language training course. On 
see PEACE/ page 8 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, February 9, 1996 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
A Sports 
Fan's Bill 


of Rights 
The American sports fan has been taking some heavy abuse lately. With all the bad press created by the Giants Stadium snow ball fight, the Cleveland Browns move and the baseball strike, it's getting dangerous to be a spectator, booster or even a casual observer. 
It's time for devotees of sports all over the nation to petition for certain inalienable rights, and to redress certain grievances. In short, it's time for A Sports Fan's Bill of Rights. 
Preamble: We, the sports fans of the United States, in order to guarantee enjoy­ment of the games we so love, to promote the safe passage of these traditions to future gen­erations, and eliminate the obnoxious drudgery that characterizes so many .of our games, do present this list of demands to the institutions that we call sports. · 
Article 1: Loud, irritating stadium an­nouncers shall be banned from our sports. 
Whether it's the guy who yelps "AND NOW YOUR CHICAGO BULLS!" or that clown who whines "TRAAAAVELLING" after every in­fraction in Orlando, these jerks are a disgrace to the game. For an example of real class, see Yankee Stadium's authoritative and graceful Bob Sheppard. 
Article II: All sports teams shall find new music to play on public address systems at least every five years to avoid repetition. 
How many times can you listen to "YMCA," "We are the Champions" or "Rock and Roll Part II" before vomiting uncontrollably? 
Article Ill: Cheerleaders shall be required to actually pay attention to the game at hand. 
This will avoid embarrassing high school like incidents such as the chant "We want a touchdown-right now!" while your team is on defense. 
Article IV: The cost for a family of four to attend a game shall not exceed the price of any Asian subcompact car. 
Fans are tired of taking out second mort­gages to watch a utility infielder, who is hit­ting .220 and earning $1.78 million a year, strike out four times. "You want tickets to a Knicks game, kids? Honey, call The Money Store!" 
Article V: Creativity among cheerleaders shall be highly valued. Does anyone know a different cheer besides that "Wo-Wo-Wo" hand thing? Article \11: Petulant, crabby players shall no longer be tolerated. 
Derrick Coleman, Horace Grant, Jose Canseco and Chris Webber; shut up and get in the game. Millions of folks would kill to be in your position. 
Article \111: Petulant and bungling owners shall no longer be tolerated. 
George, Art and the rest of you: Your teams 
make you millions. Learn how to use it wisely 
and stop threatening to move if you don't get 
your way. Empty stadiums are ugly sites. 
Maybe Green Bay has the right idea. 
These are just a few ways that fans should 
start lashing back at the pathetic state of 
affairs in the sports world. Amendments are 
sure to follow. But getting 3/4's of the states 
to ratify could be a problem. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Accent Jamie Heisler Joey Crawford Jason Dorwart Production Sports Melissa DeRosa Brian Reinthaler Jackie Moser 
Graphics Lab Tech Brian Blank Dave Murphy MikeRuma 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is.published Monday through Friday excc:pr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are r~c:rved. 

• Wom.o AT A GLANCE 
Look out, hold on to your eyes, ears, voice and dollars 
NEW YORK 

Getting through dinner without a call from a phone or cable company that wants your business could get tougher now that the telecommunica­tions overhaul is law. 
There are plenty more calls ahead, along with mail offers and broadcast and print ads, as local phone, long-distance and cable companies-freed ­of all sorts of regulatory barriers -try to muscle into one another's business. Even though you won't be able to take phone calls on your TV set for years, the advertising blitz has begun. 
"It is a nuisance at times," said David Rua, an insurance agent in Pittsburg, Kan., who gets calls from long-distance companies who want his busi­ness. "But that's free American enterprise. If you try to cut that down, that's saying they can't com­pete." 
The driving purpose for the biggest communica­tions legislation since 1934 is competition. Few companies wasted time adapting to it Thursday. 
Less than an hour after President Clinton signed the bill, the largest local telephone company, GTE Corp., announced it had a contract with WorldCom Inc., the fourth-largest long distance company, to resell long-distance service under the GTE name. 
A few minutes later, AT&T Corp. chairman Robert Allen stood before reporters in Washington and said the largest long-distance company would offer local phone service by late summer. 
The goal for all is to become a one-stop provider of whatever communication service a customer seeks. The industry buzzword is "bundling," or offering discounts for taking more than one ser­vice. 
"There's certainly going to be a rise in the level of the noise that's out there," said Cliff Eason, chief executive of SBC Communications, the telecommunications arm of SBC Corp., the region­al Bell carrier in Arkansas, Kansas, Missouri, Oklahoma and Texas. 
Next Whitewater move critical 

The new rules 
The sweeping telecommunications bill Congress passed Thursday affects every aspect of the media. How the government is likely to 
become more or less involved: 
Internet MORE Sexually explicit or otherwise indecent material can't be transmitted to minors over the network. or LESS Deregulating the phone companies could spur competition, 
driving on-line prices lower. 
companies may now offer long-distance service. or MORE They must comply with FCC rules to ensure that there's competition. 
Cable LESS Customers of small cable systems -about 20 percent of the market -immediately get deregulated rates. All other rates will be 
deregulated by March 31, 
1999. 
Television MORE Manufacturers must install the ''V-chip" in new televisions. The chip allows people to block out shows that include violence, sexual content, etc. 
AP 

Oscar Meyer weinermobile defense? 
LOS ANGELES 

A defense lawyer on Thursday mocked prosecution claims that Snoop Doggy Dogg, real name Calvin Broadus, and his bodygaud hunted down and murdered a young gang member in the rap star's distinctive Jeep."It's like committing a drive-by shooting in the Oscar Mayer weinermobile and thinking you're not going to be noticed. It's not reasonable," attorney Donald Re said in closing arguments. Lawyers claim it was self­defense when Lee , Broadus' bodygaurd, shot Phillip Woldemariam from a Jeep driven by Broadus, 24. "What they cannot run from is the fact that Philip Woldemariam was shot in the back. That is not consistent with self­defense," prosectutor Robert Grace said. 
20 miles of blood spilled in Kansas 
SYRACUSE, Kan. 

A tanker truck carrying animal blood sprang a leak, splashing cars and leaving a 20-mile-long stain on a highway. The tanker, en route Wednesday to a process­ing plant in Syracuse apparently blew a seal. "One lane was pretty much covered with blood," Sheriff Dan Levens said. "It was splashing all over the cars." The blood posed no health hazard, said Verna Bagby, a spokes­woman for Clausen-Koch Corp., where the blood was to be dried, separated and sent to factories for use in ani­mal feed. Sand was spread to soak up the spill. 

WASHINGTON 

Concerned about what a state bank regulator might say about Whitewater, presidential aides discussed sending someone to "make sure her story is OK," a newly discovered White House document shows. The White House turned over former communications director Mark Gearan's handwritten jottings -months after they were 


demanded by the Senate committee. White House lawyer Jane Sherburne told the committee Thursday that Gearan inadvertently took the notes with him when he left the White House to run the Peace Corps last September. · 
Teen cited for assault with icy puddle 
GILLETTE, Wyo. 

A teen-ager whose car splashed slush all over a woman shoveling snow was cited for assault. "He deliberately was tire-to-curb to splash me," said Stacey Baxter, who was in front of her· house Tuesday when the car drove through an 8-inch puddle, dousing her and her son. "I was mad as a wet hen, literally." Baxter said the driver even came back for a second try but was discouraged when her husband came out into the front yard. The woman called police, who tracked down the car and cited 17-year-old Tyler Nichols. He could be fined $750. 
Friday, Feb. 9 AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


ILL 
• 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon. Friday, Feb. 9. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 


COLD WARM STATIONARY C 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. Pressure ~ ~ 
H L mISS! !Til 0 [Z3§ ~ L..!U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PI CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VtaAsSOCia/ttdPtiJSS 
Atlanta 70 39 Denver 51 39 Oklahoma City 76 45 Baltimore 55 32 Indianapolis 56 37 Pheonix 81 57 BuiTalo 45 27 Los Angeles 72 55 St. Louis 70 53 Chkago 57 36 Madison 49 37 Tampa 77 58 Dallas 78 50 New Orleans 75 56 Wilkes-Barre 45 26 
j 
Friday, February 9, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 ' 
I


~cSha~n~e~:~C~o~n~fr~o~n~t~in~g~~~~~~~~~=N=a=tu=r=ai=R=e=fl=ec=t=io=n=s~~ 1 
! 
~ 
a friend takes courage 
Lecture examines helping those with eating disorders 
By MAGGIE WALSH Nows Writer 
Deciding to confront your friend about an eating disorder takes courage, according to Molly McShane, who spoke in a lecture given on eating disor­ders last evening. 
The lecture, given by members of the Women's Resource Center and the Counseling and Career Development Center, was presented through various media. 
The women showed clips from a informational video, spoke about the warning signs of eat­ing disorders, and shared from experience on how to approach friends with disorders. 
According to the speakers, choosing to help a friend can bn agonizing and might prove stressful to the friendship, but it can often be a decision which is lifesaving for the friend. 
When making the decision to intervene, it is necessary to educate oneself about a friend's problem first. Aecording to the speakers, peo­ple should first gather specific information about their friend's symptoms, making sure that there is a repeating cycle of events , syrnptomatie of the dis­order, and that it was not a one time situation. 
Thn time chosen to speak to a friend is also very crucial. A time must be chosen when the friend is not preparing for an important exam or paper. 
It is also important not to attack a friend for their com­pulsive habits. Generalizing their problem with names, sueh as "bulimic" or "anorexic" should be avoided. 
Instead, a friend should be made aware of the love and support available even if the behavior is not condoned. The speakers stressed sharing your concerns with a friend, specifi­cally noting the behaviors which have provoked your ini­tial concern. 
According to them, it is also important to be caring, patient, and non-judgmental. Encour­aging a friend to go the Coun­seling Center and talk to some­one is key, and therefore one should have the names and numbers of several groups and counseling centers available for a friend. Eating disorders are curable but the process is lengthy and often difficult. 
Liz Wisniewski, a Saint Mary's Freshman, agrees, "[Curing eating disorders] does take a long time. I've seen that the process is lengthy in my re­lationships with other people. But, [the Counseling Center's] main focus is not to give up. That's important." 
In the end it is necessary to realize that if a friend is of legal age, the decision to get help lies in their hands, accord­ii~to the speakers. Eating dis­o"'ers are usually a way of dealing with underlying prob­lems. 
Once those problems are dealt with and acknowledged, the healing process can begin. 
The substantial increase in tempera­tures within the past few days caused the snow to melt, and campus-wide flooding to occur. While the flooding caused inconveniences for many, it also created unique reflections of University buildings and locations. 

The New Number on Cam 




r--------,r--------,
99ft ::$ 5.99: 


~~?.J-7 n Large : 
I • • II 1-Topping I : With an_y Pizza : : Thin or Hand Tossed: ord"er. Pizza
1 _____...1 1 _________.1 
1 L Not valid with other offers. 1 
.-L-­

Now Hiring! 
-~ ---~-~-----~~~~~----­
page 4 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 9, 1996 

Grotto 
continued from page 1 
stands out most vividly in Jenkins' memory was a trip she made with a group of freshmen from her dorm. 
Many of the women in Jenk­ins section were feeling home­sick and were dealing with the stress of the first weeks of classes. A trip to the Grotto proved to be an effective rem­edy for their sadness, Jenkins said. 
"We each prayed separately, and then we sat in a circle and talked," she said. "There was such a sense of peace there." 
Stillness and quiet are what many visitors to the Grotto claim to seek. 
Cara Calcagno, a LeMans Hall junior at Saint Mary's, said the Grotto serves as more than just a pitstop during her workouts. 
"Sometimes I stop at the Grotto when I'm walking aroung the lakes," she said. "It's a good place for me to just stop and think."

r The solace and security of­fered by the Grotto may hold even more meaning for those
f 
I ~ who cannot visit it as often as they wish. · Going to the Grotto is like go­ing home, according to Mickey Hill, a former Holy Cross stu­dent, who is now at Boston College. "It's like visiting a place inside yourself," Hill said of the Grotto, a place he visited often when he was in South Bend. "When I go back Notre Dame and I visit the Grotto, I get the feeling that God will always love you and that you can always come back here." "It's the greatest feeling," said Hill, who had a memo­rable experience at the shrine upon returning to the campus for the first time after leavin~g Holy Cross. "It was a feeling of 'go ahead and do what you want with· your life because this will always be here'." When the existence of the Grotto at Notre Dame was threatened by a fire in Septem­ber of 1985, many people were thankful that it was repaired so quickly, including Pangborn rectress Cathie Lohmuller. "The Grotto is the center of stillness in our bustling, little community," said Lohmuller, who spent her undergraduate and graduate years at Notre Dame prior to becoming a rec­tress. "When you have a place 
like that that you go to for peace, and then it's gone... " she said in recalling the days following the fire. "It was very sad." 
But despite the solace pro­vided by the Grotto, the tempo­rary escape of pressures are not the only reasons people flock to the Grotto. 
Marriage and the Grotto go hand-in-hand, according to a Notre Dame priest who played an important role in many of the preliminary events that lead to the sacred bond. 
Father Charles Carey of the classes of '31 and '37 had at one time been in possession of five engagement rings belong­ing to Notre Dame males plan­ning to propose to their girl­friends at the Grotto. 
When Colonel Dick Lochner, Notre Dame class of '61, was married in Ohio, there was one place he had to go after mak­ing his lifetime commitment. He and his bride drove to the Grotto immediately after their wedding ceremony. Because they wanted to offer a prayer thanking God that their lives had been joined, distance was not a significant concern of the couple, who drove all the way from Ohio to light a Grotto can­dle. 
While love and marriage have stood as incentives for Grotto visits, there are other bonds bringing people together at the shrine. 
To Carroll junior Jeff Kloska, the Grotto represents family. 
When his older brother, Bobby, class of '90, proposed to his fiancee at the Grotto last spring, Kloska had the plea­sure of witnessing the event ­though hidden in some bushes. 
"They (the couple) walked to the Grotto and sat at one of the benches," Kloska recalled. 
Thomas Dooley expressed his adoration of the Grotto in a 1948 letter to then University President Father Theodore Hesburgh in the months just before Dooley's death, Hes­burgh read the letter and had a copy of it mounted and placed on display in front of the Grotto's pews. 
"But just now, and just so many times, how I long for the Grotto," Dooley wrote in the letter. " 
Away from the Grotto, Dooley just prays. But at the Grotto, especially now, when there must be snow every­where, and the lake is ice glass, and that triangular foun­tain on the left is frozen solid 
_ and all the priests are bundled in their large, too long old black coats, and the students wear snow boots...if I could go to the Grotto now, then I think I could sing inside. I could be full of faith and poetry and loveliness and know more beauty, tenderness and com­passion. "This is soggy sentimental­ism I know. Cold prayers from a hospital bed a~e just as pleasing to God as more youth­ful prayers from a Grotto on the lid of night," he said. "Knowing prayers from here are just as good as from the Grotto doesn't lessen my gnaw­ing to be there... The Grotto is the rock to which my life is anchored." And at the end of the letter, Dooley asked, "Do students ever appreciate what they have when they have it? I know I never did." The Notre Dame Archives may be offering people to ex­press their appreciation. Anyone who has a "Grotto story" is encouraged to send it to "Grotto Stories-0; P.O. Box 
"When ten members of the~ 454; Notre Dame, Ind. 46556­Notre Dame Glee Club came to 0454. 

Relations 
continued from page 1 
that there needs to be commu­nication in relationships. She used some common cliches to express this point. 
"What part of no don't you understand," said Harmeyer. 
Harmeyer expressed the fact that in today's society men and women have a problem com­municating with each pther. If women are going to be consid­ered good, they are supposed to say no first to a man's sexual overtures."Women are encour­aged not to say what they mean," said Harmeyer. 
However Harmeyer was quick to point out that men don't take this no seriously. This is because men become so used to this "no" being the first word out of a women's mouth when they are becoming intimate. 
Harmeyer used an interview with a date rapist that she read to emphasis her point. When asked by the lawyer if the women ever said no, the rapist said she had said no, but she did not really mean it. 
The floor was then opened up for comments. Deirdre Cher­venka, a junior, took the opportunity to ask about other ways of communicating with people besides using words. 
"I disagree with the assump­tion that the only way to com­municate with people is through words. I feel some­times that unspoken communi­cation such as body language can be used as well," said Chervenka. 
Harmeyer agreed with c1tr­venka's comment, however, she stated that body language can cause some problems. 
"If two people have never had a conversation about how far they want to go sexually and commented that playing the role of man allowed them not to be as defensive. They did not have to worry where they parked their car or who was walking behind them. 
serenade them, my brother got  All letters will be placed in a  the·y become physical, problems  
down  on  one  knee." After  permanent grotto collection in  can often arise. Problems such  
Bobby proposed, Kloska and  the University of Notre Dame  as getting caught up in the  
some of his other brothers and  Archives where they will be  moment  can  occur,"  said  
friends of the family, who were  made available to future gen­ Harmeyer. 
watching from behind some  erations.  According to Harmeyer hav­ 
nearby shrubs, came out to  The letters may be anony­ ing a verbal conversation about  
congratulate the couple.  mous  or  not  (senders  can  your sexual relationship with  
Amidst these and all the mil- include their names and ad­ you partner is a good idea.  By  
lions of "Grotto stories" that  dresses).  Whether it be long,  having this conversation it is  
exist in the hearts and minds  short, inspirational, humorous,  clear to both people what will  
of people world-wide,  one  or just sentimental  -or one  happen when physical intimacy  
story stands among all the  that's been passed along-any  begins. 
powerful voices  as  a  quiet  grotto memories can be sent to  The Oprah show was next  
reminder of what the Grotto  enrich .the archival record at  used  as  an  example  by 
truly represents.  And  this  Notre Dame.  Harmeyer; she said that re­ 
memory is enshrined at the  cently Oprah had a show where  
Grotto itself.  The  Notre  Dame  Alumni  five  women were dressed as  
When humanitarian and  Newsletter contributed to this  men and allowed to play  "the  
Notre  Dame.  alumnus  Dr.  report.  man" for a day.  The women  

Sophomore Tara Mooney then brought up the fact that at SMC and ND one is often un­aware of any sexual assault that takes place. "Saint Mary's and Notre Dame don't inform people about sexual assaults that take place on campus. The schools just promote the idea of how safe it is," said Mooney. 
Harmeyer then responded that many women who have been assaulted never report it to security, they just tell their friends. Harmeyer finally stressed the fact that women need to think about communi­cating with men and not being afraid to take a stand on impor­tant issues. As women's week draws to a close, Harmeyer wanted to state that it is not bad to celebrate women. 
"People feel that by celebrat­ing , women become anti-male. This is not true. People can cel­ebrate women and at the same time be pro-men," said Harmeyer. 
Reaction to Harmeyer's lec­ture was extremely positive. 
"The lecture asserted feelings about relationships that I al­ready had. Her point about women having to be defensive is true. I feel that I have be­come more defensive than I was as a freshman," said senior Kelly Falcsik. 
"The lecture pertained to what I have been thinking about lately. The issues we dis­cussed at the lecture need to be discussed by both men and women. The key to real com­munication is understanding on both sides and changing pre­conceived conceptions," said junior, Lisa Schroeder. 



Don't Get 
Left Out In The Cold 
Heat is Included 
in Your Rent! Plus Gas For 
Cooking &Hot Water 
Efficiencies from $290 
1-Bedrooms from $305 
2-Bedrooms from $375 
24-Hr. Emergency Maintenance Free Aerobics Classes AltenUve Staff Community Activities Pool &Sundeck Clubhouse Air Conditioning Laundry Facilities Cable TV Available Beautiful Landscaping Close to Shopping 
Call or stop by today and IMl'll show you how great living at Hickory Village can be. 
+llCKORlJ DILLAC]Ef! 
Mon.-Fri. 8-6, Sat. 10-4 & Sun. 12-4 
__________________, 

Friday, February 9, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Grazin: Russia in 'precarious' situation ND to host 
By KELLY BROOKS tions. "Whole branches of the News Writer Hussian government are almost 
business

100% criminal. An example of !\ combination of internal and that is Hussian foreign cus­external developments in Hus­toms," Grazin admits. 
conference

sia and Europe leaves the fu­Dangerous overestimation of ture of their security and diplo­Hussian military forces at all 
Special to the Observer

matic relations in a precarious levels presents another desta­situation, aeeording to Igor bilizing element. "A complex Undergraduates from NotreGrazin, who leetured on Bus­of superiority of a weak army Dame and six other universi­
sian Danger and European Se­may be dangerous," empha­ties will meet on campus Feb. 
(~urity in the Hesburgh Center sized Grazin. The fear is that 
23-25 for the first

for lntnrnational Studies, overambitious political or mili­
Intercollegiate Consulting

Crazin attributes thn instabil­tary lead·ers may push the 
Conference on international

ity to ten factors within the re­army into war. 
business issues. 

gion. "Hussia remains today Hussia no longer takes inter­Organized by the student-runtlw only European state that national law seriously which Notre Dame Council on Inter­
occupies signifieant territory further compounds the prob­national Business Development and the ability to lem. 
(NDlCBD), the eonference isexpand..../\round Hussia there "Hussia is the only country in designed to provide collegiateis not a single state that could the world that has declared a 

business groups with the

dni'Bnd itself or offer resis­whole ethnic group evil," said knowledge and skills necessary 
tanee." Grazin pointed out. Grazin who pointed out that to offer consulting services toHussia also uses direct mili­Yeltsin comments toward the American companies interest­Yeltsin's behavior is particu­posal involves creating a non­tary threat as a tool for political Chechnyans are the first from a ed in expanding abroad. 
larly worrisome. Yeltsin's Russian, non-NATO neutral
in11uence. "Barely does a coun­political leader since Hitler's 
Faculty and students from

drinking and health problems security zone from Norwaytry openly threaten neighboring comments towards Jewish peo­the participating universitiesaffect his decision making skills down to Yugoslavia.
eountries with military in­ple. 
also will make presentations

and in running the nation it Developments within the region
tervention," said Grazin. The widening, gap in living and exchange information. 
"comes down to the execution have proved that this won'tThis is compounded by the standards between Hussia and Conference sessions will take
of political decisions. Put all work.
fact that many officials have its neighbors, ideological trends 
place in Notre Dame's new

these things together and it's Whether NATO expands to in­ambitious geopolitical goals. such as the growth of national­College of Businessnot so funny any more," added clude the Baltic states and Cen­They see their sphere of "near­ism, and the irrationality of po­Administration complex begin­
Grazin. tral Europe remians to be seen.
abroad" as stretching from litical decision making in 
ning on Friday evening, contin­

Grazin explained what pos­Grazin admits, "The strangeFinland to the United States. Hussia round out the factors uing all day Saturday and con­sibilities remained as solutions, thing is that politicians likeAnother factor is the that threaten security between 
cluding early Sunday after­

but emphasized the shortfalls those with nuclear weaponseriminalization of state institu-Hussia and Europe. 
noon.

in each of the plans. One pro-more than those that don't." 

CAMPUS MINISTRY••• .•••CONSIDERATIONS 
THE GROTTO: Many students, teachers, parents, staff members, and even people visit­A PLACE AT THE HEART OF NOTRE DAME FOR 100 ing for the first time do have an intuitive sense that the Grotto repre­sents what Notre Dame is all about: a service to God and others that
YEARS gives birth to Christ in the world. 
It was 2:15 a.m. on one of the coldest nights of last week, and I was This Sunday, February 11, Notre Dame will begin to celebrate the
spnntmg across campus. All I could think about was how much I 1OOth year of the Grotto by celebrating Mass at 10:00 a.m. in the
wanted to get back to the warmth of my room in Planner Hall, when I Basilica. ALL ARE WELCOME!
looked over to see students at the Grotto. 
May this celebration of the centennial of a place which continu~s to be
At almost any time of the day or night, even the coldest night of the year, you are likely to find at least one person at the Grotto. According so significant to Notre Dame men and women help us to rededicate ourselves to expressing our faith in action, serving others at all costs.
to some of the Holy Cross priests who have been around Notre Dame the longest, that's the way it has always been. 
Fr. Bob Dowd, C. S. C. 

What is it that has drawn generations of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
students to the Grotto since 1896? 
Some say it is because it is a quiet place where they can think clearly. Some people say it is because they feel the closeness ofGod when they are there. Some people say that they find it a place ofconsolation when it seems like things are falling apart. Some say that visits to the Grotto help them to risk and to put their faith into action. 
The Grotto is a place which is at the heart of Notre Dame. 
Near the top of the Grotto is a statue of a woman who put her life at the service of God and others, giving birth to God in the world. 
This Grotto is dedicated to a woman and the way she appeared, in 1858, to a peasant girl named Bernadette Soubirous near Lourdes, france. This Grotto is dedicated to the Mother of God who appeared to the poor in a place that was considered a waste. This Grotto is dedi­cated to a woman who was hope for the sick and those who felt that things were falling apart for them. This Grotto is dedicated to a woman who helped people, like Bernadette, to risk and put their faith into action, serving others at all costs. 
It is impossible to explain exactly what happened in Lourdes, France. 
It is impossible to fully explain why people are at the Grotto at any time of the day and night, even at 2:15 a.m. on the coldest night of the year. 
THE NOTRE DAME FRESHMAN RETREAT retreat #5-the last freshman retreat of this school year! 
Applications available to any interested freshman for 
retreat to take place Friday, February 23 (4:00p.m.) Through Saturday, February 24 (6:00 p.m.) 
Applications available at: 
The Campus Ministry Office 103 Hesburgh Library call1-7800 or 1-5056 
Fridays at 12:15 -1.·00 p.m. 2nd Floor South Dining Hall 
FIFTH SUNDAY OF ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Sat. February 10  5:00p.m  Rev. David Garrick, C.S.C.  
Sun. February 11  10:00 a.m.  Archbishop Agostino Cacciavillan  
Apostolic Pro-Nuncio to the U.S.  
12:00 noon  Rev. Thomas Gaughan, C.S.C.  

---~--~-~---~ 

Friday, February 9, 1996 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Northwest experiences worst flooding in 30 years 
By DAVID FOSTER 
AsstKiarcd Press 
POHTLAND, Ore. 

A mountainside moaned, then gave way in a rush of mud. Highways vanished beneath stinking, earamel-colored nood­watnrs swirling with uprooted trees and raw sewage. One girl was dead, a woman was miss­ing, and thousands of Oregonians were driven from thnir homes. 
And the rain kept falling. As the state's worst flooding in more than three decades threatened to swamp down­town Portland, sandbags and concrete highway dividers formed a thin dr.fense Thursday against the wide Willamette Hiver. 
"Water's going everywhere," said Trase Myers, as he and others hurried to stack 40­pound sandbags against a building down.town. "I can't bnlieve the destruetion the wa­tnr has causr)d." 
In the nation's latnst extreme wnather in a winter of ex­trenws, hundreds of roads -· ineluding both of Oregon's cross-state freeways, lnter­statt~s 5 and H4 -wore dosed by high water or mudslides. 
Amtrak trains were halted. Gov. John Kitzhaber declared 14 counties disaster areas. 
Amid the deluge, there were water shortages. Muddy flood­waters contaminated drinking­water supplies throughout the valley. Portland and Salem offi­cials urged people to conserve water. Smaller towns shut down their water plants com­pletely and told residents to buy bottled water. 
The flooding is the result of a series of storms that marched in from the Pacific beginning two weeks ago. The first were cold, piling up snow in the mountains that form a scenic backdrop to Portland -the Cascades to the east, the rolling Coast Hange to the west. 
On Monday, a warmer storm stalled over the state, and the snow started melting, adding to the record rains -more than 5 inches a day in some areas. 
Sparkling mountain streams, narrow enough to jump across two weeks ago, turned mon­strous, tearing through the for­est, ripping small bridges apart. 
As the swollen streams con­verged in the Willamette River valley, evergreen trees were ripped out by their roots, bob­bing and lunging downstream 
JEWELERS 
•Class Rings Sized... 
In most cases wrlile you wait-
SOD/a off! 
•Jewelry Repair 
•Gold Chains 

• Engagement Rings 
like huge battering rams. 
An estimated 1,500 people were forced from their homes in Eugene, and 12,000 in the Salem area, where a parade of U-Hauls, horse tr.ailers and pickup trucks streamed through the rain. 
Bill and Connie Mellin grabbed a few valuables from their home in Keizer, near Salem, and headed for higher ground. 
"We've stacked our furniture up on books that we don't like," Bill Mellin said. "We're going to grab some photos, kids' toys and clothes and get out of here." 
The gathering waters bar­reled toward Portland, Ore­gon's biggest city, which sits astride the Willamette near its confluence with the Columbia River. 
On the Columbia River east of Portland, a tugboat rescued Harold Jank, 70, from a house that was breaking apart late Wednesday as it raced down the waterway. The tugboat couldn't rescue Jank's wife, Jacqueline, 62, and she was missing. 
A 9-year-old girl drowned in a culvert Wednesday when she went out to get the mail near the small Willamette Valley 
USJJ North 
Village Mall 
South Bend, IN 46637 
(219) 277-1515 
Centennial Place 
324 W. Cleveland 
Granger, IN 46530 
(219) 277-1010 

1811 S Ironwood Dr 
Between Lincoln­way and Calvert! 

HD: 
233·7272 

54533 Terrace Ln 
Next to Subway on SR23! 
271·1177 

Perfect Pizza. Perfect Price. Everyday. 
When you've got pizza on your mind, get Papa on the phone. Papa John's will deliver your favorite pizza -hot and fresh. And, as always, we'll include our speCial garlic sauce and pepperoncinis, too-all at no extra 
cost! And if you're really hungry, ask about our cheesest!Cks and bread­sticks! They make the perfect pizza even better! 
Perfect Pizza. Perfect Price. Everyday. 
Heavy rains have caused extensive

Northwest flooding flooding in four states. 

• 
Washington Clark, Columbia, Cowlitz, Klickitat, Skamania, Walla Walla, Whitman and Yakima 

• 
OregonClackamas, Columbia, Linn, Lincoln, Hood River, Marion, Multnomah, Polk, Tillamook, Union, Sherman, Wasco, Washington and Yamhill 


•Idaho Kootenai, Benewah, Latah, Nez Perce and Clearwater 
• Montana Carbon, Custer, Lewis and Clark, Lincoln, Park, Ravalli, Sanders, Stillwater and Teton 
town of Scio. 

In Portland, the Willamette was expected to breach the city's seawall Thursday night and crest Friday morning at 30 feet, 1.2 feet above the seawal­l's lowest point. 
That would equal the level of Portland's last big flood, at Christmas 1964, which killed 4 7 people and left 17,000 peo­ple homeless throughout the Northwest. 
City workers and volunteers banged nails and lifted plywood sheets into place to erect a bar­rier at least 2 1/2 feet over the 
AP/Wm. J. Castello seawall, but officials expected it would only slow the water down. The barrier was to be just over a mile long, covered in plastic and held down by sand­bags. ''I'm normally a pretty opti­mistic person," said Gary Kaer, eyeing the raging Willamette a few yards away from his de­serted restaurant in Portland's Tom McCall Waterfront Park. "I've always felt like you can overcome anything life throws at you. With this, what can you do? Nothing, but wait and hope for the best." 





page 8 The Observer • NEWS Friday, February 9, 1996 
Peace 
continued from page 1 
her application, Brush indicat­ed a desire to work in Latin America during her two year commitment, and the Peace Corps responded by stationing her in rural Bolivia. 
"They do a really thorough job of matching your placement with both your desires and your talents," she said. Brush also added that the Peace Corps strives to place its volunteers in safe environments. 
"We don't go anywhere where it's not safe. It's got to be very stable, otherwise we leave. Actually the Peace Corps has to be invited in the first place. They're particular about only going where they're asked," she said. 
Brush found herself working for the Bolivia Social Welfare Department to teach women hobbies to help them expand their horizons. After a year in that capacity, she moved to a larger city, and worked with an orphanage where she had her most rewarding experiences. 
"I opened a bakery there. It gave the kids an opportunity to learn a trade, it taught them so­cial skills, it taught them re­sponsibility, and it taught them about entrepreneurship. Those kids were really backwards, they'd never had a family to teach them anything, basic things like showing up for work they hadn't learned yet." 
A little patience went a long way for Brush, though. "How can you beat the feeling of knowing you're helping some­one? It's incredible. In the long run, they even taught me more than I taught them," she ex­plained. 
"Of course it tried my pa­tience at times. There were days when I thought, 'What the heck am I doing here?' I'd think, 'If I see one more llama walk by and spit, I'm going to scream,"' Brush said. 

In retrospect, a vast majority of Brush's feelings about her stay in the Peace Corps are very warm. "I swam in the Amazon and I lived in the Andes. I saw things people dream about," she said. 
Brian Hennekes, a 1987 Notre Dame graduate, just con­cluded his Peace Corps obliga­tion, but still lives and works where he was assigned-Santi­ago, Chile. He found his experi­ences to be just as valuable as Brush did hers. 
"I wanted a full cultural and linguistic immersion into Latin America. I wanted to get to know the problems of the ma­jority of Latin Americans, the poor, and try to provide my ex­perience in a positive way to improve their economic situa­tions. This concept is not all al­truistic, but also it includes a self-desire for my personal and professional development," Hennekes said. 
Hennekes began using his tal­ents in a relatively rural An­dean setting where he worked with small textile businesses. 
"My second year I led a strategic planning process in an organization that promotes and exports handicrafts from 400 small producers located all over Chile. I spent a year working directly with the manager of the organization to do things like improve their database, develop their marketing plans, stabilize the financial status of the organization, and other managerial tasks." 
Hennekes' work shows that the Peace Corps has come a long way from its former stereotypes of hippies living in grass huts. As the world's pop­ulation has shifted to urban ar­eas, the Peace Corps has adapt­ed and has sent more and more · 
urban professionals to urban 
business development assign­
ments. 
Among the variety of skills his 

Peace Corps involvement has 
helped him to develop. Hen­
nekes listed public speaking 
enhancement, proficiency in 
another language, interper­
sonal relations, strategic plan­
ning, management and consult­
ing skills, export experience, 
and cultural sensitivity. 
He doubts his situation is 

unique among Peace Corps vol­
unteers. 
Hennekes admitted that his 

Notre Dame background made 
a good foundation for his work 
in Chile. 
"Yes, I can say with pleasure 

that my Notre Dame education, 
in the classroom, but especially 
out of the classroom, prepared 
me in part for a successful ex­
perience in the Peace Corps. 
Also in terms of a commitment 
to service in the community, NO 
influenced my decision tp join" 
he said. 
"I thought being immersed 

into a completely new envi­
ronment would spark my de­
velopment as a person. And it 
has," Hennekes said. 
Notre Dame continues to pro­

duce students interested in con­
tributing to the Peace Corps' 
mission. Of the twenty-two stu­
dents who began the appli­
cation process last fall, ten have 
been nominated. 
"Even though it takes almost 

six months, it's really not that 
hard. It's mostly just to find out 
who's dedicated," Brush re­
called of the application pro­
cess. 
Nic Bachhuber a Senior me­chanical engineering major, is ·one of the nominees awaiting 
placement. 
"I've been nominated to teach 

high school science in Africa. I 
should know exactly where ·by 
April," he said. 
Bachhuber's roommate, Tim 

Please recycle The Observer 
COMING TOA CUSHING 
NEAR YOU!!!! 

See ItWith The Quilt 
You Love!!!!!! 
Croteau is headed to Africa also. 
"I wanted to go somewhere where they speak French, and I wanted to see some Third World areas. I'm a sociology and government major, and we talk and read so much about Third World countries, but I don't feel like I have a concrete grasp on wh~t some of these people are facing." 
When asked what led him to forgoe the job market for two years of volunteerism, Bachhu­ber responded, "It's something I've always thought about. There's always time to enter the workforce later. An engi­neering major didn't give me the chance to study abroad. I realize I can always work in engineering twenty years down the line, so now's the time." 
He added, "Personally, I've always felt like I've been given a lot, and this gives me a good opportunity to help some peo­ple in return." 
Michelle Mudry and Teresa McCaffrey are another pair of roommates awaiting placement. 
"We didn't decide together, but we talked about it a lot until we separately came to the same decision," Mudry said. 
On her decision to join the Peace Corps, McCaffrey, a physics major said, "I wasn't 
Friday, February 16 
ready to commit to a graduate program yet. My older sister had been in the Peace Corps in Honduras, and I saw how good it was for her, and I decided I could use an experience like hers, like the one in front of me, to help me see how other people's lives were." 
As to how Notre Dame had influenced her decision, she added, "I think one of the greatest things about Notre Dame is the Center for Social Concerns and all of the oppor­tunities it opens up. I'd done Appalachia, and Urban Plunge, and then esc helped me con­tact the Peace Corps." 
While McCaffrey is looking forward to teaching high school science in Africa, Mudry plans on using her English major to teach English "Either in East­ern Europe or Asia, I'm not sure yet," she said. 
"I don't want to jump into a job and maybe not be happy with it. I came from a small town and a Catholic girls' school, and now I'm at a Catholic University. I want to see what else is out there," she added. 
Any students interested in beginning the application pro­cess are encouraged to contact recruiter Brian Anderson at 312-353-4990. 


8:00 PM Moreau Center/O'Laughlin Auditorium Student Tickets: $4; Adults: 
S1 0 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College box office, O'Laughlin Auditorium, 9-5, Mon.-Fri. Visa, Discover, MasterCard: 219/284-4626 
••••••••• 'I 'I 'I 
~ 
THE f10RRIS INN 
OF -NOTRE DUIE 

NOTRE DAME. INDIANA 46556 
uBe A Sweetheart" 
Valentine's Day 
Dinner Specials /or two 
Wednesday, February 14 Dinner from 5:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Enjoy a dining experience in the true spirit o/Notre Dame 
For reservations call 
631-2020 

Friday, February 9, 1996 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• CYPRUS 
Russian-Iraqi accord to boost oil sales 
Asaociated Pras 
NICOSIA 

Russia and Iraq signed a $10 billion cooperation accord dt)signed to revitalize Iraq's oil industry and boost its produc­tion by 1 million barrels a day once U.N. sanctions are lifted. 
The agreement, signed Wednesday, is the first bilater­al accord of its kind since the 
U.N. Security Council imposed crippling trnde sanctions on Iraq t'or invading Kuwait In 1990. 
It comes as Iraq is negotiat· ing with the Security Council in New York on a U.N. offer to let Iraq sell $1 billion worth of oil every thn~e months to buy food and m11dicine. At current prices, that comes to around 700,000 barrels a day. 
The accord comes also on the eve of Secretary of State Warren Christopher's meeting in Helsinki with Russia's new foreign minister, Yevgeny Pri­mnkov. The United States has consistently insisted .that Iraq abide by all Security Council resolutions before it will con­sider any lifting of sanctions. 
•Mr. HollaOO's Opus (PG) 1258,400,7:00,10:00  
•Cl'llmpler Old Men (PG·13) 1:10.3:25,5:40,7:55, 10:10 • Bed ol Roses (PGl 12:55. 3:oo. 5:10, 7:35, 9:45  
•Sense and Senslblllly(PG) 1:15,4:15,7:15,10:05  
• Black Sheep (PG·13) 1:05, 3:15, 5:25, 7:45, 9:55  
•Bridges ol Mlllllson Cll!PG·13) 12:45, 3:45,7:2D,ID:1D • Beautllul Girls (H) 1:2o. 405,7:10.9:40  
•Leaving La Vegas(R) 1:30, 4:20, 7:05, 9:50  
•IUIIIII Checks In (PG)t:OO. 3:20,5:30  
•Two 11 By Sea (8}7:40, 10:15  
•Twelve Monkeys (H) 1:45,4:35,7:25, 10:15 $3.75 ALL SEATS BEFORE 6 PM dO PASSES • SUPERSAVERS ACCEPTED  

Christopher's and J>rlmakov's agenda includes another U.S. pitch to Russia to forgo sale of nuclear technolo­gy to Iran. and a plea for ratifl· cation of the Start II missile treaty, which would cut American and Russian arse· nals of long-range missile in half by 2003. 
The official Iraqi News Agoncy, monitored in Nicosia, reported late Wednesday that the accord was signed in Bagh· dad by Fayez Abdullah Shahin, undersecretary at Iraq's Oil Ministry, and Russian officials. 
Before it invaded Kuwait, Iraq was producing about 3.2 million barrels of oil a day, most of it for export. Those sales earned Baghdad about 

BI 5 W McKinley Mishawaka jCollege Square • accross from Town & Country) 
Grand Opening Celebration Feb. 8,9,10,11 
TANNING I month $30 • Hair • • Nails • 
~~'!)~ 
257-8266 

No Summer Plans?? 
SERVICE PROJECT? 
(ND students only) 
•$1,500 
Scholarship 

•8 
Weeks of Service 


In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs Across the U.S. ++++++++++++++++++++++++++ 
Applications available at the Center for Social Concerns: Deadline Februa 9th 
$10 billion a year. 
During Thursday's negotia­tions on a Umited oil sale, U.N. and Iraqi officials discussed · how Iraq would ship any oil lt sells and how revenues from the sale would be managed, 
U.N. 
spokesman Sylvana Foa said. 

The Security Council has in­sisted that revenues be placed in an escrow account under 

U.N. 
supervision. 


The agreement with Russia provides for cooperation in all areas of the -Qi} industry, Including exploration. develop­
. ment and exchanging experts, the Iraqi News Agency said. The agreement, initialed in April 1995 and ratified by Iraq's rubber-stamp parlia­ment on Nov. 6, includes provi­sions for Iraq to repay its $7 billion debt to Moscow, mainly thr·ough oil supplies. 
The agreement covers a number of oil projects, includ· 
• SOUTH AFRICA 
ing two big southern oilfields the Russians were involved in before August 1990. One, West Qurna, has a production capacity of 450,000 barrels a day, and the other, North Rumailah field, has a capacity of around 550,000 barrels daily. 
Preparatory work needed to make the fields operational is expected to begin soon. 
For the U.N. sanctions to be lifted, Iraq must eliminate its programs for producing weapons of mass destruction and account for hundreds of people who disappeared dur­ing Iraq's seven-month occu­pation of Kuwait. 
Russia and France, Iraq's main arms suppliers before the embargo, have been press· ing Baghdad to comply with all Security Council resolutions so the sanctions can be lifted and they can resume economic links. 
Gunmen attack kills four workers, wounds one 
Associated Press 
JOHANNESBURG 

Gunmen opened lire on peo­ple standing outside a workers' dormitory, killing four and wounding one, police said Thursday. 
The Wednesday night attack at the Denver Hostel in an in­dustrial area of southeast Jo­hannesburg was the second in recent weeks on workers in the region. Police offered no motive but said the attack may have been linked to political violence. 
Most residents of workers' hostels are Zulus, and the com­pound has a reputation as a stronghold of the Zulu national­ist lnkatha Freedom Party. 
Years of fighting between Inkatha and the rival African National Congress killed thou­sands of blacks in the decade before the nation's first all-race election in 1994 that ended apartheid. 
The ANC won the vote; Inkatha seeks autonomous power for the traditional Zulu homeland in KwaZulu-Natal province, and tension has spilled over to the Johannes­burg area, where thousands of Zulus are migrant workers. 
GREAT \VAL 
Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant 1991, 1992, and 1993! Szechuan • Cantonese • American Chinese Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch· Every Sundav·--, $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children 
Hours: Delivery 'Till 1 AM Sun­273-3890 Thurs 'Till 2 AM Fri
Lunch and and Sat
Regular Hours 
Lunch 11-2 
NBA ALL-STAR GAME SPECIAL 
2-16" pizzas with 2 toppings-$15.24 Plus TAX 2-16" pizzas with 1 topping and a free order of breadsticks-$15.24 PLus TAX 
CALL THE SOUTH STORE FOR WEEKEND RESERVATIONS 
288-3320 
• EGYPT 
Two trains collide in sandstorm 
Associated Press 
CAIHO 
As a blinding sandstorm gripped much of Egypt, two passenger trains collided with vehicles in separate accidents Thursday that killed 12 people and injured 19, police said. 
It was not immediately clear, however. if the storm played a role in the crashes. 
A train traveling from the Mediterranean port of Alexan­dria to Cairo hit a truck near the town of Kafr Zayyat, about 55 miles northwest of Cairo. 
Police said nine people were killed and 12 injured in the wreck, which derailed many of the train's cars. Poliee blamed the truck driver for the acci­dent. saying he crossed the rail­road tracks without heeding the signal. 
Earlier, a train plowed into a van, killing three women and injuring seven near the town of Rahmaniya, 55 miles northeast of Cairo. No one on the train was hurt. 
Egypt's railroads have been plagued by accidents. Last De­cember, two passenger trains collided in heavy fog, killing 75 people and wounding 76 in the Nile Delta town of Badrshein. 
Elsewhere in Egypt, several traffic accidents blamed on the sandstorm left four people dead Thursday. Police had no further details. 
Meanwhile, the sandstorm forced Cairo International Air­port to divert several planes be­cause of low visibility. shut down the port of Alexandria for several hours and delayed ships passing through the Suez Canal. 
Who said that in order to look good 
you had to spend a lot of money? 
Goodwill carries all the Brand Name 
clothing you like,but without the brand 
new prices.We have the same large, 
quality selection of clothing 
that you would find in the 
mall ...but at a 
price that will 
keep you coming 
back, looking good, 
and impressing 
friends. So, the next 
time you need a 
particular outfit, or 
you're just looking for 
something different, 
give us a try. 
You'll find there's 
something for everyone 
at Goodwill. 

page 10 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Friday, February 9, 1996 
Walt Disney to enact takeover of Capital Cities/ ABC 
By JEANNINE A VERSA 
Associared Press 
WASHINGTON 
Federal regulators cleared the way Thursday for The Walt Disney Co. to take over Capital Cities/ABC Inc., creating the world's largest media company. But the company will have to shed some properties. 
The Federal Communications Commission voted 5-0 to re­move the last hurdle to the $19 billion deal. 
Disney said it would complete the acquisition by the end of the week. 
The commission won't let Disney permanently own, as it had requested, radio stations and a newspaper in Fort Worth, Texas, and in Pontiac-Detroit, Mich. 

Instead, the commission would provide the company with a temporary waiver of one year from cross-ownership rules to give Disney time to sell or swap either the radio or the newspaper properties in each city. The choice would be Dis­ney's. 
Still, Disney might be able to keep the Fort Worth and Pon­tiac-Detroit properties. The FCC said it would re-examine its newspaper-broadcast cross­ownership rules within the year. 
"We are hopeful that it will ultimately allow us to retain the properties in the two cities," said Disney chief Michael Eis­ner, who otherwise applauded the FCC's action. 
Even though all five commis­sioners voted to clear the deal, two of them -James Quello and Rachelle ChOng -opposed the FCC's decision not to let Disney permanently own the properties in Fort Worth and Pontiac-Detroit. Both said there is amply media competition in the two markets. Each market has more than 50 separately owned broadcast outlets, they said. 
Quello said the FCC's news­paper-broadcast rules "no longer reflect the realities of the marketplace." 
Federal regulations prohibit one company from owning a newspaper and a radio station in the same market. Legislation overhauling the nation's telecommunications laws, which President Clinton signed Thursday, would not change that. 
Capital Cities/ABC owns in Fort Worth WBAP-AM and KSCS-FM and the Fort Worth Star-Telegram. It also owns WJR-AM and WHYT-FM in De­troit and the Oakland Press in Pontiac, Mich. 
Since Capital Cities/ABC owned these properties before the FCC had regulations bar­ring such ownership, the prop­erties were grandfathered, the FCC says. But the grandfa­thered status does not transfer to Disney. 
For Disney to win a perma­nent waiver, it would have to prove that the combined own­ership is in the public interest, the FCC says. 
In 20 years, the FCC has granted only two waivers to its newspaper-broadcast cross­ownership rules. And the stan­dard has been tough -in both cases, owners had to show the newspapers would otherwise go out of business, FCC attorneys said. 
For Disney, the FCC waived local ownership rules so that it may permanently own TV-radio combinations in Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Flint-Detroit, and Toledo-Detroit. 
Disney and ABC shareholders approved the deal on Jan. 4. Officials from both companies had no immediate comment. 
Disney would replace Time Warner Inc. as the media in­dustry's largest company. 
Kantor 
continued from page 1 
time elected Father Timothy Scully, vice president and asso­ciate provost since 1994, to the new post of vice president and senior associate provost. Both appointments will become ef­fective July 1, When Nathan Hatch succeeds Timothy O'Meara as Notre Dame's provost. 
Kantor's chief responsibilities in the provost's office will be University budgets, science and engineering concerns, and University computing, accord­ing to Hatch. Chief among Fa­ther Scully's responsibilities, he said, will be a continued focus on the University's interna­tional programs and outreach and a major new undertaking of assessments and initiatives in undergraduate education. 
Describing the University's newest officer, Hatch said, "Jeff Kantor has been a superb teacher, scholar and adminis­trator, and he's also a person of real vision. He will serve Notre Dame well." 

A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1981, Kantor spe­cializes in the dynamics and control of industrial chemical processes. 
Kantor's research has been supported by the Nation Sci­ence Foundation, the Depart­ment of Energy and a number of industrial sponsors. He was the recipient of a National Sci­ence Foundation Presidential Young Investigator Award in 1985 and the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation Teacher-Scholar Award in 1986. 
Kantor is a member of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers and is completing a three-year term as director of the institute's Computing and Systems Technology Division. He recently was reelected a trustee of the CACHE Corpora­tion, a nonprofit corporation that produces software for en­gineering education. He also is a member of the American As­sociation for the Advancement of Science. 
Kantor recently chaired the University committee reviewing 
I I 
·--------------------------------· 
I I 
I GENERAL STUDENT I 
I 
I 

I BODY
I I I I I I I I I 

I MONDAY FEBRU
I I I 

I 1 Vote tn dorms: 11:00 a. 
I I 5:00
I I I I I I I I 
=~@~-i~I 
I~ 
1 ~c~ 

a••••••••••••••• 
the graduate bulletin and also has served on the committee reviewing undergraduate ad­missions. He has been a mem­ber of the Engineering College Council, the University com­puter committee and the Uni­versity committee on research, infrastructure and scholarship. 
Kantor is coeditor of a vol­ume in progress for an Ameri­can Institute of Chemical Engi­neers series on chemical pro­cess control. He has published widely in professional journals and presented numerous sem­inars, colloquia, and keynote lectures. He has directed 19 master's and doctoral degree candidates. 
A 1976 graduate of the Uni­versity of Minnesota, where he served as student regent, Kan­tor received his master's ar.d doctoral degrees from Prince­ton University, where he was a National Science Foundation fellow from 1976-1979 and a George Van Ness Lathrop fel­low in 1979-80. Prior to join­ing the Notre dame faculty, he spent a year in postdoctoral studies at the University of Tel Aviv in 1980-81. 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
12 I I 
I I 
:QO p.m. I I 
I 7:QO p.m. I I 

vote at the I I I I I 
m:I 
w~ 
E 
I 
D. I 
IAcnoNI[]~ 1 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
I 

----------------· 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
We've sot yo!.-\..,. ~oweV's foV' this weekeJI\d 's daJI\ce 
*Lal"gest selection of Fl"esh-c«t l"oses 
*Daily delivel"}' to camp«s 
*St~..<dent disco~..<rlt 
*Located on col"nel" of Edison . and Jl"onwood 
*.All majol" cl"edit cal"ds accepted 
288-7551 

lliJEtliJJA. AT ,,.,111: (ttla.IITr
CIN~·~:~ ". idL .liN~~ t 
presented by Notre Dame Communication and Theatre 
631·7361 


·----~-----------.---------------------------------------------~
·~ 

VIEWPOINT 
Friday, February 9, 1996 page II 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME 0PFIC:E: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1995-96 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief John Lucas Business Manager Joseph Riley 
Nc:wo l:.litor ................................ David Tylor Advertising Manager...........................John Potter Viewpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ...................... Jcn Mackowiak Sports Editor.•........................... Mike Norbur Production Manager .............. ; ... Jacqueli"ne Mos<r Accent Editor ......................... KriSla Nann~ry Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor .................... Patti Carson Observer Marketing Director .......... Pccc Coleman Controller ............................................. Eric Lorge 
The Observ<r is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reOect rl1e policies of the administra­tion of eirher in~riuuion. The news is reponed as accurately and objcctivdy as possible. Unsigned edi­torial> repre><nt the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor. News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commemanrs, lcUC'rs and Inside Columns present the views of lhe authors, and not necessarily rhosc of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all'members of the Notte Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and 10 all rcadrrs. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrough k·ners is encouraged. 
Editnr·in-Chirf Managing Editor/Viewpoint Sports News/Photo Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Production (;C"ncrallnformarion 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-4543.  Systems/Marketing Dept.  631-8839  
631-5323  Offie< Manager  631-7471  
1>31·4540  Fax  631-6927  
631-5303  Viewpoint  E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu  


• I AM NOT A POTTED PLANT 
Passions: Balance liberation and regulation 
At 4:30 a few nights ago, as I turned ofT the VCH. my 9:30 class loomed large. As I brushed my teeth, it occurred to me that my decision to stay up and waste time had been unwise. This thought rncurred to me the next morning, as I carne very sleepily to class. I should have gone to bed 
Colorado? 19 hours. Too far, I was thinking, when I opened the door and saw my neighbor smoking a cigarette. Among pleasantries, I mentioned Colorado, she mentioned her sister in Colorado Springs. "If I thought you were serious," she said, ''I'd go in a minute." Ten minutes later, 
at 1:30. 
we were on the 
road. We drove all
No! cried tlw 

night, visited her sis­
otlwr half of me. 
ter, saw Pikes Peak,
Always getting to 
Charles 
and were back in
class on time, writ­
time for Monday
ing your papers a 
w1wk early, work­
classes.
Roth 
The folks over at
ing hard for those 
Right Reason would
good grades: what 
probably diagnose
sort of life is that'! 
me as suffering from 
When I'm 1)0, lying 
on my death-bed. would I not wonder what experiences I could have snatr.hed from life between tlw hours of one and four? Would I not rngrt~t my organized life, my 2.4 r.hil­dren, my dog, and my house in the 'hurbs'? 
You know what I mean. It's the theory of Am1~rir.a; irresponsibility is the root of all fun. 
What do you remember best about last senwster'? If it involves the 'Backer, I don't want to hear about it. But imagine this: it's the last nice day in October; you walk into class. and the sun is shining in the window; you go up to your friend in the front row: "let's golt"'; yes, you're snrious; you look over your shoulder (still no prof) and you're out of there; on number four, you're playing the best round since you were 15, and it's 30 minutes into your 75 minute elass (when the dock ceasns to move); you feel joy. 
It's those little irresponsibilities that givn plnasure, but we all know that the glory lies in that which others will term "crazy," with a grinning shake of the lwad. I claim that glory. Our second wenknnd after summer break. it was Friday night around 9:30, and I walked into my apartment bored. I saw the atlas, and wondered, how far to 
an acute case of the "disordered passions." Chuck, they would say, you let your appetites control your life, rather than subjecting them to the dictates of reason. Calm yourself, Chuck, focus on one thing,get good grades, avoid venial sins. and always go for one point conversions. 
That might be wise advice, but I won-. der whether it would be applicable to us 20th century Americans. Consider this analogy. We all might be happier living in little farming villages, without faxes, without satellites, without application forms. without credit cards. But our Jives have changed. Free markets bring more wealth, more activity, and force us to work harder to feed our children. That's our life. 
If consumer appetites are so necessary to the success of our free market econo­my, I wonder if liberated passions don't have the same advantages. People fol­lowing their desires are more efficient and they try harder. Maybe "passion people" accomplish more at college and over a lifetime. Just as nations without free markets fell behiT)d the West, maybe the calm. well-ordered people will be less productive that those who harness their passions. 
I should write a guide to personal self-actualization ("A Happier Me," 1-800-A­SUCKER). Hint number one: diversify. Don't be Venezuela, producing only oil, suffering rPcessions. Take a variety of classes, and when you get bored with Spanish, go paint. And don't forget to hug yourself. 
Now, wait. I don't want to make light of traditional teachings on the passions (which I butchered above). Of course, we can't get rid of our emotions, nor should we. The trick (for we who are not self­abnegating monks) isn't dictatorial con­trol of our passions, but the efficient regulation of them. 
'w:en I'm 90, lying on 
my death-bed, would I not wonder what experiences I could have snatched from life between the hours of one and four? Would I not regret my orga­nized life, my 2.4 children, my dog, and my house in the 'burbs?... It's the theory of America: irresponsibility is the root of all fun. 
Newt might not agree, but capitalism succeeded precisely because it was well­regulated. Market inefficiencies, like bank failures, can destroy a free-market system if not corrected. Similarly, indulging your every whim can get you in serious academic trouble, or less vir­tuously, make you a parent before you're ready. It's a strange paradox, but increased freedom needs more regula­tions. The more we let our passions run rampant, the more we need to pull our­selves painfully away from attractive but destructive chasms. 
Which brings me to ND, Land of Regulations. This school is often pater­nal, but it also exper.ts, and largely receives, "responsible" behavior from its students. When I got to eollege, the first thing pounded into my head (aside from sensitivity training) was that grades didn't matter. Around here --enough said. Maybe it's the value of Catholic education. 
Sometimes I wonder whether NO's regulations have caused us to fall out of touch with the power of passions, espe­cially disordered ones. That's the only way I can explain articles about co-ed dorms which mention dorm spirit, but don't mention the word sex. You've got to be kidding. How r.an that not be the first thing you think of? (The only thing I can imagine is that ND will pack people four to a room, and count on embarrass­ment to dissuade the tempted). 
I supiwse it's not cool to say you're against co-ed dorms because you want to save people from sexual sins, and it sounds weak to say that you don't want to be tempted yourself. But that's the argument, isn't it? At my college, I was going out with the girl next door (literal­ly). Permit me to observe that it doesn't feel very manly to keep yourself from having sex. Of course, it's the moral choice, and we need to resist tempta­tion, but why hasten the onset of temp­tations? They come soon enough to us all. 
Which brings me back to Colorado. Maybe I shouldn't have gone (nothing happened, I swear), but generally, we will be better Christians in the world if we "deregulate," and follow our pas­sions over caution where harm is small. 
Chuck Roth is still an unemployed third year law student. You can reach him at Charles.G.Roth.6@nd.edu. or by wandering around the law school. ' 
• GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY
• DOONESBURY · 

----------------~·~---~. 
ACCE-NT
page 12 Friday, February 9, 1996 

The Stars Come Out for the SophomOre Literary Festival 
By SARAH DYLAG the festival. While the list of names did not reach its final stages until Accent Writer Thanksgiving, many of the invited writers expressed an interest in the festival and its celebration of the written word. After months of work. 
I
magine planning, preparing, and waiting nine months for a very however, the committee finalized their list and the 1996 Sophomore special birth. Thirty Notre Dame and Saint Mary's sophomores Literary Festival, which begins on Saturday, brings Bob Holman, have been doing just that and, beginning Feb. 10, they will finally Miguel Algarin, Tobias Wolff, Alistair Macleod, Frances Sherwood and see the breath of life enter their "baby"-the Sophomore Literary Gwendolyn Brooks to Notre Dame. Festival. Running Feb. 10 through Feb. 15, this year's twenty-These upcoming and esteemed writers will give readings in the 
ninth annual festival promises an inspirational and enlighten-Library Auditorium at 8 p.m. each night of the festival. The readings ing week of outstanding literature, amazing people and begin on Saturday with Bob Holman and Miguel Algarin, poets and co-unlimited imagination. editors of "ALOUD: Voices from the Nuyorican Poets Cafe." Algarin's Begun in 1967 by one ambitious sophomore. the accomplishments also include publishing eight books and winning Sophomore Literary Festival has grown from a single cele-three American book awards. He possesses talent and interest in bilin­bration of the life and works of William Faulkner to a gen-gual writing as well. Holman's work focuses on spoken word poetry. eral celebration of diverse, upcoming and esteemed writ-Not only does he write his own poetry, but he produces programs cele­
ers. Since becoming a treasured part of the Notre Dame brating poetry as a spoken art as well. 
tradition, the festival has brought over 200 writers to The readings continue on Sunday with Tobias Wolff, winner of the South Bend, including Ralph Ellison, Jorges Luis 1985 PEN/Faulkner Award, the 0. Henry Prize, and the 1989 Rea Borges, Seamus Heaney and W.P. Kinsella. Award. On Monday, Alistair Macleod, author of three short story books The tradition continued last April when the 1996 and full professor of English at the University of Windsor, will be read­Sophomore Literary Festival committee formed and ing. On Wednesday, the festival brings Frances Sherwood, South Bend Andria Wisler was selected as chair-resident, writer, and winner of two 0. Henry Awards. Finally, the festi­
person. According to Wisler, the val closes on Thursday with Gwendolyn Brooks, Pulitzer Prize-winning committee of "very talented, poet and author of over twenty-five books. very diverse, very creative" For many students, the highlight of the festival will be these read-sophomores agreed to "shoot for ings. However, the festival also includes daily the stars," literally and figura-~ workshops in the Notre Dame Room of tively. LaFortune at 11 a.m. The structure and content 
Throughout the summer they «-. ' of these workshops is left completely up to the contacted at least fifty writers ~ "& author and they provide a wonderful opportuni­and, workin ,..... ~ ~ ty for students to meet the writers and the writers 
)d~=;;~~~:~~~~~~=~~:;;;n;;;;;;::::::7~ with a limit-«-.~ have a chance to discuss different aspects of their writ-
ed bud-~"& ing and their lives. 
g e t , The workshops begin Sunday when Holman will speak and @ show clips of his PBS mini-series, "The United States of Poetry and offered \S Film." Wolff will host Monday's workshop as a question and answer t session for students. In addition. the movie "This Boy's Life," based on 
p a y the personal tale Wolff tells in his novel runs on Saturday and Sunday. travel. food Macleod hosts the Tuesday workshop and the final workshop will be and lodging held by Sherwood on Thursday. Sherwood's workshop, though open to expenses as the public, will consist of her critique of eight manuscripts provided 
well as a ilego-earlier by Notre Dame sophomores. Although Brooks will not host a tiable stipend workshop, she will hold a book signing at 2 p.m. on Thursday. in exchange Continuing the tradition begun last year, this year's festival will also 
for par-include a night of student readings on Tuesday. Chosen from a group of ticipa-over thirty interested students, the seven student readers have ap­tion in proximately ten minutes in which to present their work to the Notre 
Dame community. The 1996 committee continues the student reading night in an effort "to expose the Notre Dame community to the literary talent that often goes unnoticed on campus." 
Returning reader Jessica Maich views the student reading sessio;, as one of the most important parts of the festival because it really 
brings the students into the festival and thus supports university writing programs. Praising the student reading session for its abili­ty to increase student interest in the event, Maich believes that the 
session provides an "opportunity for people to connect with the festival so writing doesn't seem so far away." 
Freshman reader Rachel Wacker considers her opportunity to read a great honor. Excited about the event, Wacker points out the diversity of the different readers and notes that no two peo­ple's writing sounds the same. Her own personal contribution will be her poetry about travel experiences and people. In antici­
~"''..~-~..•-_---pation of the session Wacker looks forward to "sharing the stage
--..._.___,__,____-..,,, 
with people who have really gone somewhere with their writing." 
Other student readers include: Luisa Heredia, David Griffith, Kathleen McManus, Alex Macleod (son of Alistair Macleod) and Douglas William Metz. 
For Andria Wisler and her committee, the most 
satisfying part of the festival will be meeting the writers with whom they have previously only com­municated with by phone. United by their common love of literature, the committee also realizes, as Wisler states, "It's an honor. We're bringing the only 
large literature celebration to campus.... The uni­
versity depends on us." Though uncertain about all of the hard work drawing to a close, the committee anxious­ly awaits to see how the writers affect the campus and the peo­ple who come to see them. 
Summing up the festival, Wisler says, "It's powerful, in­triguing and will have varied effects on the audience, but 
will be very positive." 

~................................~~--..........................------~~----.---.-~----------..--~------------------------------------------'~ 
~-----------------------fill: Electl~n 


1996 

1996 PRESIDENTIAL TICKETS PRESENT THEIR PLATFORMS 
--see pages 2,3 

• NEWS ANALYSIS 
Down, but not out 
Past presidents claim that Student Government is still a viable part ofND life 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Associate News Editor 
As Monday's election for student body president 
and vice-president approaches, the legitimate candi­
dates find themselves battling a foe far greater than 
the opposing tickets. Next week's winning ticket will 
have to defend itself against claims that student gov­
ernment is not an effective body on this campus. 
And more important than that, the incoming offi­
cers will have to believe in what they themselves say. 
If not, they are in danger of fulfilling every expecta­
tion that is set against them. 
To be sure, the student body's belief that student 
government has historically spun its wheels may be 
valid. but past presidents have a few ideas -born 
out of a year's experience in office -that may help 
student government get on track. For example, nar­
rowing the focus of one's term in office increases the 
odds that the year will be productive. according to 
c;rng Butrus, student body president during 1992-93. 
"lAs a newly elected president,) you come into 
offke, thinking you can accomplish anything in a 
ynar. But you soon lind out that nine months-the 
actual amount of time you're office -is just not 
enough time to get everything done," Butrus said. 

"There are limits to what you can do." 
Top: Former Student Body President David Hungeling wash d f h 
At tlw beginning of Butrus' term, t e agen a 0 e best known for his efforts to bring the Grateful Dead tb cam-and his vicn-president, Molly O'Neill, was saturated pus. Bottom: Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy man­with possibilities and proposals, but the two quickly aged to achieve several campaign goals, despite opposition. lnarned that, because of the routine tasks such as completing Board of Trustees reports and organizing Frnshmen Orientation, they needed to narrow their 
plans down. 
"There are enough people who care about Notre Dame, so you can have people working on coresiden­tiality and Grah-n-Go convenience, [two issues in the 11J96 election,) at the same time," Butrus continued. "But if you try to be a jack-of-all-trades, you won't get anything done." 
Keeping focused on the objectives also requires a dmlication to organization, a second key to an eiTec­tivc limn in office. The University administration has been willing to listen to student government officers in the past, but only if their proposals were well-
see PAST I page 4 

Don't forget to vote Monday in your dor;ms from.11-1 p.m• 
.· '":~wv and 5-7 p.m. 
I 

A runoffwill be held Wednesday if 
1
necessary. 

Despite obstacles, Patrick, McCarthy win some battles 
By KRISTI KOLSKI Assistant News Editor 
Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy had one year to fulfill their campaign promises as student body president and vice-president. Among their goals were a push for better campus communica­tion, a move toward FM status for WVFI, support for GLND/SMC and increased involvement with the Board of Trustees. 
Although they fulfilled some of these promises, a few points on their platform were compromised or dropped. But it is difficult to criticize because in all areas, the pair seemed to make an honest effort to accomplish their goals. The larger share of the blame may lie with the limiting parameters of their office as student body leaders. 
Patrick and McCarthy showed determination to create a better link between administrative leaders and students, but creating that link required com­promise. 
"The school is exactly like the Catholic Church. The Pope is on top and there are a million Bishops underneath. The administration decides every­thing here," said Patrick. "The only watchdogs are the trustees but they are only involved in major policy issues. not day to day operations." 
But both Patrick and McCarthy quickly point out 
that the administration is not out to get the stu­dents. "They act for what they think is good for the students in their eyes," McCarthy said. 
The problem lies in that what is good from the perspective of the administration may be very dif­ferent from what students perceive to be good. In getting that point across, Patrick and McCarthy have found that it is better to be non-confrontation­al. 
"You have to work within the framework you have," said Patrick. "Students don't have enough power here to play smash-mouth or get into power struggles with the administration. We found it more productive to work with them." 
"A lot of student governments in the past have had horrible relationships with the administration," said Patrick. "But, if we had something that was a very good idea and feasible, and presented it as a mature and developed proposal, they were almost always 
see PATRICK I page 4 

• ElliTORIAL 
Observer endorses Miller/Murray ticket 
Out of the confusing mess of Monday's Studtmt Body Prt~sidnntial lkbate. perhaps the most depressing statement of the evening came from one of its h~ast serious candidates. 
"Wiuwvnr gets eleetod, life won't change in a major way," said Mike I•:g1~r. who, with his running-mate Mike Bacon, is running undtw tho witty slogan "Baeon and Eggs." (Get it?) "The big issues arc going to slay the samn." 
Of the ten tickets running this ynar, many senm to agrnn with this assessment, at lmtst judg­ing by the group of platforms which run tlw gamut from mildly entertaining (free golD to tho utterly ridiculous (virtual" reality bobsledding). Several tickets did base their cam­paigns on serious issues like fi­nancial aid and student rights, but the feasibility of these pro­grams must be called into seri­ous question. 
Few tickets really recognize the problem which makes Eger's statement so true: Student Govornment at Notre Dame is on life support. With all due respm~t to students who have struggled to make a dif­ference-partieularly Jonathan Patrick and Dennis McCarthy­Student Government continu­ally fails to touch the lives of its constituents. It's not for lack of effort on the part of student leaders, but rather, flaws in the position itself. The question must be asked: How much can a student government accom­plish at Notre Dame? 
This isn't a problem that can be tied to the past year, but rather a trend that has mani­fested itself over a period of years. It may be an exceedingly bleak view, but the record speaks for itself-presidential tickets have rarely been able to accomplish their aims. Blame it on any number of reasons-a backward and obstinate admin­istration, rampant student apa­thy, or even a limited term in office and a lack of continuity. The fact remains-Student Government desperately needs to' prove its relevance to the student body, especially in re­gard to its expense. 
Which brings us to this year's election. For the past three years, The Observer has hesi­tantly endorsed candidates, while also remarking on the dearth of feasible ideas and abundance of short-sighted plans. 
Unfortunately, this year is no different. Among this field, there is no one ticket that ap­whose scope is decidedly more pears capable of, to borrow a limited. But of the "realistic" phrase from AI Gore, "re-in­tickets, only a few really pro­venting" Student Government pose ideas that can be feasibly and leading it out of its current accomplished, while still show­malaise. The field can be neat­ing a certain amount of vision ly cut in half between tickets and ambition. that have serious ideas and intentions and others, like Eger, see EDITORIAL I page 4 

Friday, Febraury 9, 1996

page 2 The Observer· CAMPAIGN SPECIAL 
Candidate PI 



R
ealistic goals. Serious results. That is what student government is all about. In an election year of candidate promises and hot issues, we have researched and proposed ideas for Notre Dame that work! 
Financial aid is our primary focus. Substantial tuition increases have defined the past two decades at our school. According to Joe Russo, Director of Financial Aid, the University had make this issue its top priority. While we applaud this effort, we feel more can be done to lessen the financial burden of a top quality education. The "qual~ty and diversity" of the student population is directly affected by the ability to accept the most qualified stu­dents regardless of financial status. As students we have a responsibility to make this an issue throughout the year. Therefore, we propose the following. By directly relocating $20,000 in student government funds to assist needy stu­dents with their textbook purchases, we can allow a number of students to enjoy some semester spending money. 
Safe and affordable off-campus trans­portation remains an issue. Increased crime in South Bend and less than de­sirable weather conditions make this a safety concern. We will establish a shuttle service between Notre Dame and Campus View, Turtle Creek, and College Park Apartments. 

PATRICK BELTON 
W
e're trying to strike a happy balance between work and fun in our campaign. The worst thing Student Government can do is to take itself too seriously. Once it does that, it separates itself from the student body, loses its initiative, and becomes an embarrassment to the school. Our cam­paign focuses on tapping in to the incredible potential in every student here. Our ideas toward that end are as follows: 
A program to bring students and teachers together outside the classroom. A program like this would benefit every­one, and we've found a lot of support for it in the Dome. At the very least, we 
W
e believe that we possess the necessary characteristics which make us the best candidates: A combination of realistic goals, experi­ence, a real interest overcoming the gender problems that currently plague our campus. Our platform reflects our larger goal: To continue to remind the University that the needs of undergradu­ate students are concerns the adminis­tration must address. 
The administration plans to displace present student parking for use by the faculty and administration. We will maintain student parking lots for their intended purpose: students. 
We want to increase student participa­
W
e feel we are representative of your typical, average Notre Dame student and thus are qualified candidates for the offices of student body president and vice-presi­dent. No matter who you vote for, your life is not going to change in any major way. But we hope we can make a dif­ference in the little ways, such as pro­viding better social activities and more conveniences (such as extended comput­er lab hours). 
In addition, we think the fact that we have plenty of free time to dedicate to the responsibilities that student govern­ment carries is another quality that would make us a legitimate choice. We 
tion in sporting events and Pep Rallies by creating sections where students can be in the middle of the action and show support for our teams. 
Let's end the lines ·in the dining halls. We will work with the Registrar to ensure that classes are offered at the new midday class times. We will also move Grah-n-Go to a more convenient location. 
On-campus activities are presently limited here at Notre Dame. We will bring a bowling alley to campus to increase opportunities for on-campus socializing. Rather than simply refur­bishing the old lanes under Hammes Bookstore, we want to create a new 
W
e have decided to run for the offices of Student Body President and Vice President because we want Student Government to impact the lives of the Student Body of Notre Dame. In order to accomplish this goal, we have worked to structure our platform around the needs of you, the student body. 
The first goal we would like to accom­p!ish is the ins tall ation of an ATM machine in Grace Hall, where students can easily obtain money when they ven­ture off campus. Next, we would like to instate a Big Sister program to bring together the women of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, and decrease the tension really don't study too much so you don't have to worry about a conflict of interest between student government and our studies. 
Our platform basically consists of four major items: 
Improve AnTostal and create a Fall Festival. Currently, AnTostal is pretty lame. We'd make getting a band our priority and wouldn't be afraid of throw­ing a lot of money at a good band to accomplish this. A Fall Festival of sorts to "welcome back" students would give students a good way to get back into the social life right away. 
More 24-hour computer space-espe­cially during finals when it seems impossible to get on a computer. 
Editor's Note: The platforms in this speci 
A review of tailgating policy. It's odd that students from other schools can come up here and throw tailgaters with­out any trouble but we NO students are doing something "illegal." We think a 
solution  or  compromise  could  be  
reached.  
More money to each class.  Each class  

needs to have the means to create social events that will actually be able to de­velop some good class unity. Right now, we feel class unity could be improved by increased funds. 
Once elected, we plan to rent out Jazzman's and throw a huge victory bash. At this party, there will be a ceremonious shaving of Egg's head. 

Simply put, North Quad needs an ATM machine. We will work to locate a machine outside of North Dining Hall. No reason to wait in long lines every Friday night just to get cash. 
Finally, we will be responsible and accountable as we mange student money. By publishing every dollar we spend, students will know exactly where it goes. Additionally, when using stu­dent money we have a responsibility to be fair in the distribution and budgeting process. 
Our platform is unique because it tackles a major issue, while at the same time caters to the everyday convenience 

of the student. 
DAVE MULLEN 

want to pair up each new faculty mem­ber with a student for a tour at the start of the year so that the new teachers get a student's-eye view of the school. 
An all-campus spring formal for chari­ty. We'll either hold this in the Joyce Center or the 13th floor of the library. A dance like this will raise a lot of money for the needy, and it'll be a great way to bring the whole school together once the football season is over. 
Fix up basketball courts and Quad drainage. The Lyons and bookstore courts could use some fixing up. As far as drainage goes: in winter, campus is an ice rink and when it rains, it's a wad­ing pool. 
Weekly exhibitions of student talent. We're thinking along the lines of an expanded Acoustic Cafe here. We'd like to have some student poetry, comedy, and story-telling on a weekly basis, and student art exhibitions every month. 
Numbered parking spaces in the park­ing lots. Whoa! Easy! We're saying numbered, not reserved. If the spaces were numbered. it would be a lot easier to give your friends directions to your car. 

recreation area, complete with lanes, a 
game room, snack bar, karoke lounge, etc. Co-ed league, student-faculty leagues, bringing kids from the home­less shelter, and charity events can all be part of this student-run complex. Having spoken with the Office of Student Activities, they fully support the propos­al as a venue for more social space on campus. 
The daily concerns of the entire stu­dent body are our utmost priority. We selected these four proposals because they can be easily implemented and will not prevent us from actively addressing the challenges we face as ·students at a 

changing university. 
DEBORAH HELLMUTH 


between the two schools. Also, a coordi­nated retreat program for all classes, not just freshman, will both allow stu­dents to learn about God and give stu­dents the chance to meet other people around campus. 
In order to promote a better-diversi­fied campus, we would like to introduce the campus to events such as more fre­quent multicultural festivals of the arts, which would serve to emphasize multi­culturalism through artistic expression. Also, we will strive to improve the rep­resentation of the minority community in student government, so that all stu­dent voices will be heard. 
We would also like to improve enter­tainment options around campus. One possibility is the opening of AlumnVSenior Club to all students as a dance club for one night a month. Also, we wish to bring the experience of virtu­al reality to out campus. Finally, it would be unreasonable to guarantee more concerts or trips; however, we will work as diligently as possible to increase both the number of concerts and the number of trips available to the student body. 
page 3 

Friday,Febraury 9, 1996 The Observer ·CAMPAIGN SPECIAL 
tforms 1996--1997 
have betm arranged alphabetically. 

F-~====;r-========:::;:~
BRIAN KLAUSNER and TONY REID 
I
n 1993, all student rights were elimi­nated from du Lac without explana­tion. Any student involved in a Student AITairs hearing in 1992 had the l'undanwntal right to be presumed irmo­ctmt until proven guilty. No longer. The administration not only eradicated all studnnl rights, it did not feel compelled to inform students of thP. decision or the rationale behind it. WP. will demand that Notre Danw studP.nts be given back tlwir rights. The Student Bill of' Bights will snrvn as a student's protection dur­ing any procnnding with the University. l>irnct student perspective and input is nxeludtHI at nvery level of' the ad­ministration's decision making process. Wn will ask for a resolution requiring 
the administration to publicly announce, to the student body, all proposed rule changes that directly affect student life. 
We also believe that students need to be included in the pfllicy formation pro­cess. A student should be annually elected to the Board of Trustees. A Notre Dame Student Trustee will pro­vide student perspective at the highest level of University decision making, and set a precedent for lower levels of the administration. 
We will construct an easy-access com­puter bulletin board, Notre Dame On­Line Link, that will provide students with on-line access to important campus information. Additionally, Notre Dame On-Line Link will also allow students to 
I
n any election, the two most impor­tant factors are the platform and the eandidates. In both of these areas, our experience, research, and realistic goals make the Seth Miller-Megan Murray the ticket to connect. 
Starting in December, we began brainstorming issues and areas where ND Student Government could make a difference. We started with over 30 ideas, and began researching their fea­sibility. After meeting with seven differ­ent Notre Dame administrators, we formed what we consider to be a realis­tic platform of achievable ideas. Among these are: Our changing campus, debit card, football ticket exchange, computer 

MEGAN MURRAY 

T
here's a lot of ideas out there, many of which aren't too feasible. We tried hard to give you a plat­form devoid of any empty promises. We're realistic in our platform. basing it around general themes, flexibility once elected, our experience in leadership, and a few realistic specifics. 
One of our main areas of concern is the improvement of student relations on campus. We'll support the movement toward co-residentiality, feeling it will help to solve the obvious problems with gender relations at Notre Dame by allowing males and females to interact on more of a day to day basis. We'll 
also work closer with the Office of 
to pick people up from local bars to ensure that they get back to campus (or their off-campus housing) safely. The "Shotgun" service will be much more accessible and flexible than the failed Weekend Wheels experiment from two years ago. 
We also want to bring the conve­nienees that this campus is lacking. An ATM machine in the library is long over­due. It is also time to do something with the stir-fry area of LaFortune. We pro­pose using this space for a Lula's type coffee shop that will actu(tlly be open after 10 p.m. We also have talked to the convenience store concerning the deliv­ery of commercial foods, such as Taco Multicultural Student Affairs, drawing from Tony's experience in this office, to address minority concerns on campus. 
We also feel life could definitely be a little bit mo;·e fun on campus. We plan on having campus wide celebrations of holidays, more quad cookouts, an Interhall paintball tournament through HPC, and on working closer with SUB to bring random fun events to simply make life a little more enjoyable on campus. 
Some of our more specific goals have all been researched and found to be within the realm of reason. The Guide either needs mandatory teacher involve­ment like at all the other Top 25 schools in the nation, or to be dropped. 
contribute to The Guide In Your Own Words. Each class at Notre Dame will have a listing of uncensored comments submitted via e-mail from students in the course concerning class content, teaching style, difficulty, and any other relevant subject matter. 
Finally, we believe that additional changes in University policy will greatly improve campus life. We will ask that students have the option to move into their dorms earlier following semester breaks. We will initiate a targeted and organized campaign to begin selling cig­arettes in Hammes Book Store and the rastbreak convenience store. 
,... ' ,.~ '~k­,: '·. '. , ~~Y"" \, ,;i~ ~; . '· -~ '\ ...  
RYAN MciNERNEY and MATT WOLSFELD  

resources, financial aid, the student sec­tion at the new stadium, your input, academic resources, Weekend Wheels, gender relations, Mod Quad ATM. ath­letic facilities, book exchange, the library, and fun. 
Besides having a realistic, researched platform, we feel we are different from every other ticket in two other impor­tant areas. First, we are the only ticket boasting two people with campus-wide leadership experience. Additionally, we are the only carldidates who have a record of making promises and keeping them. During our respective campaigns last year (Seth for Student Senate and Megan for Sophomore President) we each campaigned on extensive plat­forms. Every issue we promised last year has either been accomplished or is in the process. 
As you consider who you will vote for on Monday and look at posters and lis­ten to candidates, ask yourself the fol­lowing questions. Are these ideas realis­tic? Have they been researched? Does this ticket have a history of making promises and keeping them? Seth Miller and Megan Murray is the only ticket who can answer "Yes!" to all of these important questions. Get connect­ed and vote for Seth and Megan. 
Bell. Kate and I also propose a univer­sal parking pass, more allocation of stu­dent government funds towards enter­tainment, and a book fair over the web. 
Last but not least, Kate and I will strive to improve gender relations on campus, which are in dire need of improvement. Anyone who agrees with this goal should have a difficult time overlooking Kate and I when it comes time to vote. There are only three tick­ets with female representatives, and Kate has had the most direct experience with student government, serving as 
~~~~~~:.Body Secretary and Mod-Quad 
S 
omn have suggested that this cam­paign does not "m1ed" ofT-campus shuttle runs or ATM machines on North Quad ... that this campaign needs more snrious goals. While the presi­dnntial election cannot bn taknn lightly, wn candidates cannot overlook the stu­dent body's craving for convenience and fun. We have structured our platform around these two objectives. Instead of inundating you with an entire novel o!' earnpaign ideas lacking feasibility, we JH'opose a modest list of campaign goals that we ean and will achieve. 
Our "Shotgun" shuttle service will be a Htudnnt run organization in which stu­dents driving their own cars will be paid 
I
f one looks around our campus of late, one word comes to mind: Construction. The two most notable landmarks, Notre Dame Stadium and the Golden Dome, are being renovated. The traditional value and original look of the structures will remain the same, but they are being enhanced and expanded. For the past year, student government has been rebuilding, and next week you, the students, will elect student government's new foremen. We believe· that our platform is the most effective set of 'blueprints to lead this student body. 
We have compared our platform to those of the other candidates and feel that it is the most practical considering the role that the student government plays in the university and in the lives of the students. It contains seventeen fea­sible objectives, all of which concentrate on improving the quality of student life. A few of these proposals are allowing students to get a hot grab-and-go lunch instead of the traditional Lenten Friday three-cheese sandwich, and free golf. 
In addition we seek to insure students the right to bring their cars onto campus for brief periods of time without being hassled, more convenience for our off­campus students by installing a lounge where they can go to relax between classes and by improving the locations Presently, it is costing Student Government over $4,000 a year with lit­tle benefit to the average student. We feel strongly that the troubled Weekend Wheels program of last year needs to be revamped, believing that you really can't put a price on a program designed to save lives. We'll set out to establish a dorm conversion committee to insure that relocated students aren't getting gypped in the process. Pinally, we'll become all your best friends by staying in touch with the student body through E-mail, and improving the Student Government Homepage. 

KATE McSHANE 

of their parking, giving parents and stu­dents the option to both pre-pay for football and basketball tickets when paying for tuition and having an alterna­tive to the bookstore. We believe that with tuition at an all-time high, the stu­dents need an active government. 
Do not be wooed by what may sound wonderful, but is in reality beyond the scope of student government. Look for, examine, and vote for changes that can be made to bring greater convenience to you. We are enthusiastic, confident, and ready to work for you, our peers. 


Friday, February 9, 1996

page 4 The Observer· CAMPAIGN SPECIAL 
dent body? Not at all, said But even though Hungeling But opening lines of communi­sidered important enough." Flynn. Even when student gov­and Orsagh were propelled into cation between student govern­Hungeling, Butrus, and Flynn
Past 

ernment can't sway the admin­office by the impression that stu­ment and the administration is all stressed, however, that the istration, it can at the very least dent government could not be not enough. Keeping an attitude perception that ihe administra­
continued from page 1 

let the administration know effective, they nevertheless grew of cooperation and minimizing tion is out to cripple any plans researched. what the students think. to appreciate the rigors of office, the number of confrontations is by student government simply 
"The University definitely "Student government's push especially the need to inform the a fourth key in building an effec­is not true. "The administra­wants things thought through," for recognition [for GLND/SMC] University of student opinion. tive student government. tionl said Frank Flynn, president in got the issue exposure at the Hungeling told The Observer "You've got to handle things was usually very punctual 1993-94. national level," said Flynn. that having a student sit on the tactfully," said Jonathan Patrick, about getting back to us, espe­
Butrus agreed. "If you're "That is a lot of what student Board of Trustees, an idea pro­current student body president. cially Professor [Patricia] organized, the administration government does -lobbying," posed by Ryan Mcinerney and "[Student government officers] O'Hara, [vice-president of stu­will definitely talk to you. Flynn added. "That's how you Matt Wolsfled in their platform have to hold tbeir ground, but at dent affairs]," said Flynn. You've got to be thorough, influence others. It's critical." for this year's election, would the same time they have to be A finaJ way that student gov­because the only way you'll get Keeping · the University benefit the lines of communica­willing to work towards compro­ernment can be more effective their full attention is if it looks informed about student opinion tion between the administration mising. I think the administra­is ensuring that incoming offi­like you put in the time." is a third way that student gov­and the students. tion feels the same way." cers benefit from the exiting 
There are times when even ernment can maintain effective­"It's an excellent idea, even if "You don't want to be an president and vice-president. the most ardent support by stu­ness, as all three past presidents the student was a non-voting adversary," said Flynn. "That "The president and president­dent government will not get a agree. "Certainly, student gov­member," Hungeling said. "The won't get anything done. But, of elect need to communicate," resolution passed through the ernment gives the University the trustees would be able to turn to course, you're going to have to said Butrus. administration. Last year's opportunity to know how the the students to get their two take a confrontational stance at Flynn agreed. "After Matt decision by the University to for­students feel," Hungeling said. bits. If that were to happen, it some point. The administration and Dave were elected [in bid Gays and Lesbians of Notre It is ironic that Hungeling feels would be the best accomplish­can be more responsive if they 1994], I was worried. I wasn't Dame and Saint Mary's College so confident in the capabilities of ment in the last 5-10 years. It are interested in the same sure if they would continue (GLND/SMC) from meeting on student government, especially would make the students feel things as you are. If not, it what we started," he said. "But campus was one such incident. when considering that like they had a say." won't be as easy. my job was to help make a good 
Dave Hungeling, president Hungeling and his running­But is the idea realistic? "Getting things done can be transition." during 1994-95, knew the quest mate, Matt Orsagh, ran for office "It's possible. To do it, you frustrating at times. I always But regardless of whatever for recognition for GLND/SMC on a platform that consisted of would need the help of the disliked the fact that we needed methods can be developed to would be an uphill battle. dissolving student government trustees, which is certainly real­approval fi"om the Campus Life make student government "During the GLND/SMC contro­and bringing the Grateful Dead istic," Hungeling said. "The Council to get the attention of effective, the ultimate determi­versy, we knew the University to campus. trustees are more down to earth the administration," he added. nant lies with the student body. had the power," he said. "It was necessary to run on a and more interested in the stu­"If an issue got support from "Student government is as 
But does that mean that stu­ridiculous platform," Hungeling dents because they are out there the Student Senate [which is powerful as the student body dent government should only said. "We just wanted to make a in the real world. If it were pre­composed entirely of students, allows it to be," said Flynn. "If focus on smaller-scale projects, mockery of it. That campaign sented so that the student would unlike the CLC, which also has the student body is apathetic, such as improving the entertain­was the highlight of our whole be a non-voting member, I think rectors among its members], I then the impact of student gov­ment opportunities for the stu-political career." they'd go for it." thought it should've been con-ernment will be weakened." 
Patrick 
continued from page 1 
open to our ideas." 

"There are certain issues where we said 'This is wrong,' but we are not going to spend all our time working on it; we prefer to deal with more tangible things," said Patrick. 
Patrick acknowledges that some stu­dents might feel they have little power. 
"When Father Hesburgh broke up the student protests in the '60's it might have broken the backbone of students,"he said. "That feeling has carried over­This is Notre Dame and the administra­tion is going to say what is going to go on at this school." 
But sometimes issues went unexplored because Patrick and McCarthy believed the administration would not be receptive to them, Patrick added. "We didn't want to fight those battles and sacrifice the personal relationships with those people who were helping us out." 
"It's a matter of how to play your cards." 
Along with building a solid relationship with the administration, Patrick and McCarthy have expanded means of com­munication with students. Utilizing com­puter technologies, the student govern­ment office went on-line. "We are the first people to pioneer a Web page for student government," said Patrick. "We get a Jot of e-mail and we're constantly sending those letters back to people." 
With the implementation of Resnet, the campus-wide network, in '97, Patrick and McCarthy believe they laid the lines for better communication during future administrations. "When the whole school is wired, student government is going to be ready to receive information and also be able to tell people around campus what we are up to." 
In an attempt to open up forums for student discussion, Patrick and McCarthy started a weekly radio show on WVFI. 
•As part of their platform, Patrick and McCarthy pledged to help WVFI achieve FM status. They hired a liaison between the student government office and WVFI. 
"We looked into what it would take to help WVFI go FM but we didn't get directly involved in the organization because we didn't feel it was our place," McCarthy said. 
WVFI has not gone FM. Patrick and McCarthy are not to blame but they might of had too lofty a goal for WVFI when planning their campaign. 
•Patrick and McCarthy geared efforts toward minority concerns in relation to GLND/~MC and racial interests. In their platform they stated that if possible, the gay and lesbian community needs a place to congregate. Due out next month is the report from the ad hoc committee of Patrick and McCarthy, two GLND/SMC members and faculty representatives. Although the results will not be available until that date, it is unlikely that GLND/SMC will be given a place to meet. Smaller strides will be made. 
"Things directly influenced will be RA training programs, sensitivity training toward gay and lesbian students, and the addition of a welcome by professor O'Hara to ga,y and lesbian students dur­ing orientation weekend," McCarthy said. . In addressing minority concerns, they 
· brought the focus of NASAND to the stu­dent senate and appointed two minority concerns officers to participate in the coalition council set up by multicultural student affairs. "I think Dennis and I are the first student body president and vice president to ever go to those meetings," said Patrick. Through Patrick and McCarthy's efforts, student organizations might gain a direct link to the Student Affairs sub­committee of the Board of Trustees. "Student government is the only stu­dent group on campus that now has the ability to meet with the trustees and we think it would help to bring more of these voices to the trustees," Patrick said. The student government office typically presents two reports, in the spring and the fall, to the Board of Trustees. "We first met with the trustees a month into the semester so we really didn't have time to develop a report that covered an issue at the University. It wasn't the best way to spend the time with the trustees," said Patrick. In their spring proposal to the Board of Trustees, Patrick and McCarthy will present a plan that allows other student groups to speak to the board about organizational concerns. 
•The Freshman Community Service program was a success. The Center for Social Concerns plans to continue the program next year and fifty freshman also agreed to help with organization. 
Some of the things Patrick and McCarthy tried to implement were denied. But, they hold a list of accom­plishments of which some students might not be aware. 
Patrick and McCarthy took a proactive stance towards maintaining the student section after the stadium expansion. The administration has accepted the report and the section will remain intact. 
Programs such as the Ticket Exchange came out of the efforts of student govern­ment representative Miranda Sanford. Judicial Board representative, Tom Mattzie, organized a new service to coun­cil for students with residence life hear­ings. Additional reports relayed student interests· about South Dining Hall's expansion and a new RecSports facility. 
Finally, Patrick and McCarthy resur­rected The Guide. Whether or not it can survive another year i~ questionable. 
Now, students take control of how many courses are reviewed. "Once Resnet goes on with some simple adjust­ments The Guide will be completely on­line and everyone will have access to it." Although the most recent edition of The Guide had 145-150 responses it still falls short of being a all-encompassing course description source. 
"We look back on the year and we know we could have fit in more things at certain times but we did the best job we could," said Patrick .. 
For better or worse, the pair don't want to see that job go to waste. "Continuity is a major issue from year to year," said Patrick. "That's one of the things we have !<larned it's not so much what you run on but if you pick up on what people have done ahead of you, and I feel we are leaving people a lot," said McCarthy. 
Editorial 
continued from page 1 
Of those five, the ticket of Seth Miller and Megan Murray earns The Observer's reluctant endorsement. The pair propose a slew of ideas, some of which could fall by the wayside should they be elected, but for the most part, the platform is extensive and realistic. 
Miller and Murray have done their homework, checking on the feasibility of many of their ideas with administrators in addition to conducting their own research. With the excep­tion of the Mod Quad ATM (which has been repeatedly proposed in the past and never enacted), their plans for better advising, a renewed ticket ex­change and a commitment to the debit card seem more rele­vant and more detailed than any of the competing tickets. 
Their credentials (Miller as a Student Senator and Murray as Sophomore Class Council President), set them apart from past candidates who have struggled in the last two years. Patrick and McCarthy had little more than HPC experience, and David Hungeling and Matt Orsagh were overmatched out­siders upon entering office. 

As much as everyone fears the stereotypically "plastic" candidates who are looking only for a resume builder, the gravity of the current situation calls for experience. The pair does not appear, as others have suggested, to be "too en­trenched" in the bureaucracy. In fact, knowledge and in­volvement in the process might be a key to a successful term, as evidenced by Hungeling and Orsagh. 
Beyond that, the pair demon­strate a bit of foresight-Murray is a sophomore who could serve as a valuable re­source during her senior year, whether elected to office again or not. 
Ryan Mcinerney and Matt 
Wolsfeld should be applauded for their recognition of prob­!ems regarding student rights and power, particularly in re­gard to their idea of placing a stud·ent on the Board of Trustees. "fhe idea is long overdue, but still faces road­blocks from administrators who are only too happy to keep stu­dents in the dark. 
Mcinerney, like Miller and Murray, has a working know!­edge of the process, having served as 6oth a student advo­cate and student director of policy revisions. But judging from their statements at the debate, both come off sounding arrogant and confrontational-a style which may engage them in a quixotic fight against the Administration-not exactly a recipe for success. 
Mike Flood and Dave Mullin also show some promise. Flood proved his leadership skills in attempting to sort out the cur­rent mess at WVFI, but their major plan for financial aid is too limited in scope to have any 

impact on the average student. insurance hurdles. Book scholarships are· a noble Greg Zarzaur and Ted Mahan idea, but $20,000 of Student propose some interesting Government money will likely ideas-specifically a hot Grab­only reach a tiny group, hardly N -Go and an increase in the enough to make the plan number of night classes, but the worthwhile. Backing that idea, duo lacks a focus beyond small­their platf.tJrm is thin, relying er "convenience" oriented on a shuttle service, and again, ideas. the tired ATM idea. lt may be that Eger is correct, 
Tom Roderick and Kate that "big issues" are out of McShane also display noble reach. Maybe Student sentiments in proposing the Government can't change the "Shotgun" plan in which stu-lives of students. But maybe dents provide safe-rides for one of the best remedies to the other students. It's a fact that problem is a ticket prepared 
. Notre Dame has been touched with a plan of ideas that will with too many alcohol-related produce results, not just an­tragedies, but it is doubtful that other year of gridlock. Seth the liability-paranoid adminis-Miller and Megan Murray have tration will let such a plan be the best hope of accomplishing established without numerous that in another frustrating field. 
Campaign Special Staff: 
Layout: Krista Nannery. Dave Tyler Photos by: "Disco·• Dave Murphy Graphlcs: Brian Blank Copy Editor: Liz Foran 

ACCENT
Friday, February 9, 1996 page 13 

touring, bringing their streets of El Barrio, conveying the energy and wisdom rhythm and emotion to of the people. Wherever there is poetry, Algarin poetry lovers throughout states, "the spoken word is on fire." the United States and Algarin's artistic co-director of the Cafe, Bob Europe. The tour has Holman, has become famous for his wildly kinetic per­received critical praise formances with the Nuyorican's tour. His style has everywhere it has gone been described by "ALIVE!" magazine as "high energy, and their success has run on, punk/beat rapper," while "The Villager" has made "Nuyorican" one of declared his work a combination of "poetry, parody, the most exciting words in vaudeville and rock and roll." He has produced and poetry today. appeared on several shows on national television, ...
The lively performances highlighting the work of prominent and promising of the tour are no ordinary poets. Holman has been honored with three Emmy poetry readings. These awards as well as the International Public Television diverse poets deliver a Award. His publications include "The United States of unique and dynamic expe­Poetry" and "The Collect Call of the Wild." Together rience in feeling, beat and with Miguel Algarin, he co-edited "ALOUD! Voices sound. Their words are from the Nuyorican Poet's Cafe," which was awarded not just spoken, they are the American Book Award. This poetry guru has dedi­presented to the audience cated his life to making people aware that poetry can as living, breathing things. be a part of everyday life. His presence on stage gives One cannot merely listen new meaning to poetry by expanding the capacity of to the work of the the spoken word to excite and inspire. Nuyoricans. The magnet­Holman and Algarin will follow up their Saturday ism of their -poetry cap­evening "reading" by hosting writing workshops on tures the core of poetic Sunday morning for those who are interested. Miguel 
expression within everyone who witnesses their work. Algarin's workshop will be held in the Notre Dame The Notre Dame community is fortunate to have the Room in Lafortune at 11 a.m. Bob Holman's session opportunity to welcome the founders of this new will also begin at 11 a.m. in the Montgomery Theatre 
AlB p.m., on February 10, 1996, the Hesburgh movement in poetry to the campus this weekend. The of LaFortune. His workshop will feature a video pre­.ibrary Auditorium will be struck by a light­Sophomore Literary Festival committee has invited sentation. All are welcome to attend. ning bolt of poetic energy, known as Bob two of the top names in contemporary American poet­The Nuyoricans are an event not to be missed. Some 
lolman and Miguel Algarin. These founders ry to begin the week-long festival. Miguel Algarin is a may be surprised by their bold, non-traditional style, of tlw renowned Nuyorican Poets' Cafe in New York native of Puerto Rico who came to America in 1950. but Holman and Algarin have a gift for making poetry City will appear on Saturday to inaugurate the 29th He is currently a professor of Shakespeare at Rutgers come to life for their audiences. The passion these Annual ~ophomore Literary Festival. University as well as the theater director for the artists put into their work makes poetry intended to be 
Tlw Nuyorican (an original word combining "New Nuyorican Poets Cafe. As the author of eight books, felt by all the senses rather than just heard. Those York" and "Puerto lUcan") Cafe was first created in Algarin has been recognized three times for his out­who take the opportunity to attend the first night of 11J74. Circumstances beyond their control forced their standing work by earning the prestigious American the Sophomore Literary Festival will enjoy a unique premature closing seven years later. But in 1989 the Book Award. His poetry collection Includes the bilin­poetic performance and will certainly come away Cafe was reopened with the vision of waking a sleepy gual, "Time is Now/ Ya es tiempo." knowing the powerful role poetry can play in life. world to the life, blood and vitality of poetry througli Algarin is closely tied to his Hispanic culture both in reading and poetry slams. In 1993, Holman along life and in art. His poetry acts as a voice from the with a band of talented young Nuyorican artists began 
Who's Afraid of Tobias Wolff? 

By KRISTA NANNERY DiCaprio which will be playing this despite his desire to be a writer Accent Editor weekend in conjunction with the because, as Wolff himself has stated, Sophomore Literary Festival. If you· still "Experience was the clapper in the bell, 
T
obias Wolff was a prep-school can't answer your questions, you could the money in the bank." nunkout who wanted to be a always check out a literature or writing The Chicago Tribune writes of "In writer. That's a far cry from the course at Syracuse University where Pharaoh's Army, "The book is remark­
..·r.i 

college professor, award win­Wolff has taught since 1980. able in its language, which is as supple 
·~~ 

ning novelist, editor and father of three It might be easier, however, to just and distilled as any contemporary who will grace the llesburgh Library head over to the Hesburgh Library writer's; in its economy, for in a mere Auditorium on Sunday evening. But, Auditorium Sunday night at 8 p.m. or 221 pages Wolff captures not one but really, it's the same person. the Notre Dame room of LaFortune several worlds; in its structure, which 
If the transition from flunk-out to Monday at 11 a.m. and check him out in avoids straightforward chronology, Guggenheim Fellowship recipient needs person. In conjunction with the seeking out instead the moments that some explanation, you could read the Sophomore Literary Festival, Tobias are talismans of Wolffs chaotic youthful 1990 autobiography "This Boy's Life" or Wolff will read from his various works experience ... " the 1994 memoir, "In Pharaoh's Army." on Sunday evening and will host a Wolff eventually left the service and You might even try the film version of workshop/question and answer session settled for a while in the San Francisco "This Boy's Life" starring Robert on Monday morning. Bay area. He later went to Oxford where DeNiro, Ellen Barkin and Leonardo Tobias Wolff was born in Alabama in he studied English literature for four 
1945 and grew up under harsh circum­years. While at Oxford he set aside two stances in Utah and Washington state. to three hours each day for his writing. His first memoir, "This Boy's Life," won This marked the beginning of his life as the Los Angeles Times Book Award and a true writer. TOBIAS WOLFF was nominated for the National Book Upon his return to the states, he con­Critics Circle Award. tinued his studies, earning an M.A. in 
"This Boy's Life" is Wolff's account of English from Stanford University in an adolescence spent in the shadow of a 1978. AUJHOt Of THIS IOY"S tiFf tyrannical stepfather in which, as he From 1976 on, a string of Wolff's 
National Endowment for the Arts as 
writes in the autobiography, "Alii need-short stories appeared in magazines 
well as a Wallace Stegner Fellowship.
ed was a war." · ranging from Atlantic Monthly to Vogue. 
He has also been awarded the 0. Henry
The continuation of that memoir, "In His 1984 novel, "The Barracks Thief." 

Prize for his short stories and in 1989 
pharaoh's Army: Memories of a Lost won the PEN/Faulkner Award and one 
won the Rea Award for the short story,
War," picks up the tale in 1965 and of his collections of short stories, "In the 
in recognition of his significant contri­
provides the war foreshadowed in "This Garden of North America," received the 
bution to short story writing. 
Boy's Life." However, Wolff has made it St. Lawrence Award for fiction. In 1994, 
On Sunday night, Tobias Wolff will 
clear that "In Pharaoh's Army is not a Wolff was the editor of both "The Best 
significantly contribute to The 
sequel to "This Boy's Life." "In American Short Stories" and "The 
University of Notre Dame. If you only
Pharaoh's Army" presents Wolff as an Vintage Book of Contemporary 
see one Sophomore Literary Festival 
18 year old prep school drop out who American Short Fiction." 
event, make this one the one you see. 
leaves the merchant marines. But the list of Wolff's ac­
Wolffs books will be available before 
Finally, in attempt to earn respect and eomplishments does not end there. 
the reading and a reception will follow. 
to experience the lives of his Instead, Wolff, a busy man, carries a heroes:Mailer, Shaw. Hemingway. lie long string of awards after his name. He enters the army and goes to Vietnam has received two grants from the 

----~-------------­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, February 9, 1996 
Kidd, Mavericks outlast Jazz in overtime 
... 
Associated Press 
DALLAS 
Jason Kidd took some flak for being an All-Star starter in­stead of guys like Gary Payton and John Stockton. 
After Thursday night, Stockton has a little better un­derstanding of why. 
Kidd had 20 points and 25 assists, the most in the NBA in· almost two years, and Jim Jackson scored 38 as the Dallas Mavericks outlasted Stockton and the Utah Jazz 136-133 in two overtimes Thursday night. 
Kidd also had some big bas­kets, including a 3-pointer early in the second overtime that put Dallas ahead for good, 124-122. 
After the Mavs stretched the lead to 134-127 with 20.7 sec­onds left, Popeye Jones, Kidd and Jackson allowed the Jazz to make it close by each going 1-of-2 from the line. 
Jeff Hornacek and Stockton, whose own missed free throw with 8. 7 seconds left in the first overtime was costly, capi­talized by drilling 3-pointers. 
With 7.2 seconds left, the Jazz had a chance to force a third overtime-but couldn't. 
Kidd played smart and fouled Stockton before he could get a shot off, forcing Utah to in­bound the ball with 3.6 sec­onds left because it wasn't in the bonus. 

The play went to Karl Malone, who was open for a 3­pointer from the top of the key, but he rushed it and came up short. 
"I was trying to get it off quick," said Malone, who had 36 points and 10 rebounds in 54 minutes. "I got a pretty good look at it, but when I let it go it didn't feel good." 
It was the second-highest scoring game of the season and Dallas was involved in the other, too, 140-130 over Phoenix on Jan. 12. 
Kidd was the key as he kept the Mavericks' offense going for 49 minutes, which was es­pecially impressive considering his back is so sore that he's thought alrout skipping the All­Star Game. 
Stockton, meanwhile, also was stellar with 28 points, 10 assists and one steal, leaving him seven shy of becoming the NBA's career theft leader. 
"He is a very good player, but I'm not just playing against Jason Kidd," Stockton said. 
"I try not to worry about outdueling Jason Kidd. There's more to the game than that." 
Kidd played the game like Stockton would, often cutting off half the court to play a two­man game with his favorite scoring partner. In this case, Jackson played the role of Malone. 
The game seemed like a blowout in the middle two 
quarters as the Mavericks often led by as many as 11 points, the last time at 92-81 with 35.1 seconds left in the third quarter. 
Utah's 7-0 run cut it to 92-89 and neither team led by more than six after that. 
The Mavericks led 117-113 quickly in the first overtime, then found themselves trailing 119-117 with 33.5 seconds left following a free throw by Byron Russell. 
A 3-pointer by MCCloud put Dallas ahead 120-119 with 
21.2 seconds to go, and Stockton tied it with one free throw. He missed the second. 
Dallas' hope to win in the first overtime was lost when Lucious Harris missed a 3­pointer with 2.3 seconds left. 
Nuggets 115, Clippers 95 
DENVER 
The referees lost the game ball to a cheerleader. The Los Angeles Clippers lost it many more times to the Denver Nuggets. 
The Clippers committed 17 turnovers and were never within 11 points through almost· all the second half as they lost dropped their eighth straight game, 115-95 to the Nuggets on Thursday night. 
With Denver leading by 19 after three quarters, the only suspense came when the offi­cials lost track of the game ball to start the final period. The ball was not immediately recovered, and a new one was put into play. 

Nuggets officials later identi­fied the ball bandit as a cheer­leader. 
"We played a little better with the second ball after the first one was lost," said Clippers coach Bill Fitch. "We should have attempted that coup earlier." 
Denver had a season-high 14 steals to beat the Clippers for the first time in four games this year. 
"No doubt about it, we felt like we could beat this team every time, and we didn't" until Thursday, said Denver guard Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf, who scored 28 points to lead six Denver players in double figures. 
Dikembe Mutombo scored 18 points and grabbed 13 rebounds to move three away from 4,500. 
Don MacLean added 16 points, while Bryant Stith had 13, Jalen Rose 12 and Reggie Williams 10. 
Loy Vaught scored 18 points to lead Los Angeles. 
The Clippers, whose last win was against Denver on Jan. 25, remain one victory away from matching last year's total of 
17. After three straight wins against the Nuggets, they are still stuck on 16 heading into the All-Star break. 
"Dikembe had a dream or something about this game, and they won," said Brian Williams, one of three players traded from Denver to Los Angeles in April. "We just guaranteed we'd be on the court." 
After jumping out to a 9-0 lead, the Clippers reverted to form. 
The Nuggets, whose biggest margin of victory this season had been 13 points, led by as many as 24 in the fourth quar­ter. 
"We had high expectations tonight to blow them out," Mutombo said. "We were pumped up so high, we didn't start well. The bench helped and changed the tempo of the game." 
Denver expanded upon a nine-point halftime lead by shooting 59 percent in the third quarter. 
The Nuggets outscored Los Angeles 32-22 in the period and took their 19-point lead into the fourth. 
Denver, a 7 4 percent free­throw shooting team entering the game, hit 19 of 20 first-half free throws to build a 56-47 halftime lead. The Nuggets fin­ished 24-of-26 from the line. 
Los Angeles shot 53 percent from the field in the first half but relied primarily on perime­ter shooting and went to the line just eight times. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at rhe Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. 
Classifieds Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
NOTICES WANTED
I I 

Little Women ND/SMC/Holy Cross Students 2/9 @ 7 & 9:30, 2/11 @ 1 & 3 PART-TIME WORK. 10.25/start Carroll Auditorium, SMC Flexible hours around classes. All 
majors. Scholarships/Internships NEED ANOTHER STUDY BREAK? CALL 282-2357 come to Cushing this SUNDAY at 2 PM IMMEDIATE OPENING for SUB's showing of PART TIME SALES POSITION "How to Make an American Quilt" NIGHTS AND WEEKENDS $2 $5.00 PER HOUR 
APPLY FAN FAIR. UNIVERSITY SPRING BREAKI PARK MALL With only 1 week to live, DON'T --------­BLOW IT! Driving to New Orleans for Spring Organize group-TRAVEL FREE Break and need someone to share Jamaica/Cancun $399 Bahamas the ride with x0979 
Teachers Wanted! -If you love teaching 
• 
If you really love teaching 

• 
Have the desire to learn all types of software & build your knowledge -Willing to "study" on your own time -Willing to work as a Sub-contract trainer -Would like to make "above" average pay -Interested in variable assignments Please list any software you are proficient at: Send resume to: SS Innovations 300 N. Michigan St. South Bend, IN 46601 Fax: 219·237-9447 


1 BDRM in 3 bdrm apt. Mostly fur­nished. $200/mo + 1/3 electric. Downtown. Call Alisa or Vanda 237-1840 
Irish Co. B&B Registry Stay at the "MOOSE KRAUSE HOUSE" or other approved homes. JPW-Grad. -Football games 219-277·7003 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291·7153 
HOMES FOR RENT 232-2595 

1 BDRM IN 3-BDRM. HOME. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. SAFE WILL PAY BIG$ FOR MACBETH TIX; CALL BEN ATX1563. 
. 
PERSONAL
I 
0a0a0a0a0a0a0o0a0a0a0 
QUALITY COPIES, QUJCKL YJ!I THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
0a0o0o0a0o0a0o0o0aOo0 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
THE NERD IS COMING!!! 
Liz-For every lingerie story. there is a shirt of questionable origins. 
Liz-you know we don't cross polli· nate up here 
I think Krista, Goddess of Production sounds real nice, don't you? Yeah, I know you do. 
get me outof here. i haven't seen my roommates since monday night. i only see them sleep, isn't that wierd? 21 days and counting. I'm throwing myself a party that's how excited I am. Transition. Transition. Transition. 

$359 Florida $109 NEIGHBORHOOD. USE OF ALL Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FREE INFO packet. Call Sunsplash WANTED: Good people to earn EX NO STAFFER & WIFE WISH UTILITIES. $300/MO. CALL PAUL FAX IT FAST!!! Tweedle-dumb, I've missed you. 1-800-426· 771 0 money by becoming reps for TO RENT APT. FOR SUMMER. 232-2794. ---------They're such nice guys they would ---------EXCEL Telecommunications. Call NON-SMOKERS, NO PETS, REF· PW Carnation Sale at Dining Halls tie for third. Love Tweedle-dee. P.S. Cancun & Jamaica Spring Break 299-1999 evenings. ERENCES. CALL (941)425-4404 NOW! Only a Buck!! watch for your one-on-one. And did 
FOR SALE
Specials I 111% Lowest Price OR WRITE 135 lAKEVIEW, MUL-you know there's been a radical Guarantee! 7 Nights Air & Hotel ???????????????????? BERRY FL 33860 Literary Gods and Goddesses-increase in your talking-in-your-From $429! Save $100 On NEED A PlACE FOR THE SUM----~ Pioneer AM/FM Stereo-Amp-There will be magic. sleep incidents lately? Are you Food/Drinks! http://www.spring· MER? GREAT APARTMENT TO TUTORS for Elem·. kids! Receiver with Dual Tape Deck. -Queen of V-Mail okay? breaktravel.com SUBLET-TWO BATH. TWO BED-Every Wed. 2:15-4:00pm 1 00 Watts of tunes! Call John at 1-800-678-6386 ROOMS, ETC. AVAILABLE JUNE Call Heather @ X4135 232-2955 today! SUB presents Just call me Production Goddess. 
-AUGUST. the 29th annual Really. Spring Break! Panama City! 8 Days CALL 273-1738. THE STUDENT UNION BOARD 1984 FORD TEMPO Sophomore Literary Festival Room With Kitchen $119! Walk to ???????????????????? IS ACCEPTING 5-spd manual transmission Sat., Feb 10: Bob Holman and Sharon.. .We must make a pilgrimi-Best Bars! 7 Nights In Key West APPLICATIONSI!I 96,000 miles, good heater, always Miguel Algarin age to Purdue to see your beloved $259! Cocoa Beach Hilton (Great Help I Anyone who has recordings If you are interested in: planning dependable $800 Sun., Feb. 11: Tobias Wolff Mike. Don't forget your beer-hel­Beaches-Near Disney) $169! or pictures (or negatives) from the concerts, running the movie series, Call Chris today 111 271·0271! Mon., Feb. 12: Alistair Macleod met! Daytona $1391 http://www.spring-Billy Joel lecture please call Mitch designing cultural arts everits, Tues.. Feb. 13: Student Reading breaktravel.com. Silver (I played a song on stage) bringing in comedians and lectures, JUDAY CREEK gem. Wed., Feb. 14: Frances Sherwood "Come with nie, dance, my dear... 1-800-678-6386 277-2174 planning Antostal, the Sophomore Well-maintained, 4-bedroom ranch Thurs., Feb. 15: Gwendolyn Winter's so cold this year ... 
Literary Festival, or Collegiate Jazz with a 17 x 25 home office Brooks And you are so warm, Festival, SUB WANTS YOUIIII & 3-car garage. All readings at 8pm in the my Wintertime Love, to me... " 
ILOST & FOUND I 

Deliver Telephone Books Earn In addition. SUB needs controllers $154,900. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Extra Money No Experience Now to help handle money, graphic Call Karen 272-3653. When's Food and Drink season Are you missing a ski jacket? Hiring People needed to deliver designers to create advertising, and anyway? Found at Linebacker Thurs. 1/25. your new America's Best Book anyone interested in PR or rela-'89 BERETTA, Wanna make a BIG impression ill Call Kim x4946. Telephone Directories in So. Bend \ions. V-6, auto, stereo/cassette, console, this weekend's dance? Give her no soup for you. 
New Carlisle Mishawaka Granger SUB is the largest organization on cruise, front-wheel drive, air. flowers from SUZANNE'S FLORALI I los\ my favourite scarf between Osceola Elkhart Bristol Goshen campus with opportunities for Excellent condition, new front tires at the corner of Edison and get me out of here. Newland Science Hall and the post Millersburg Nappanee Wakarusa everyone, INTERESTED??? Come & exhaust system, and new shocks. Ironwood. 288-7551 office last thursday. It is dark green Lakeville Walkerton No. Liberty & get an application in 201 Lafortune Call654-7439 (local call). All I wanna do is go home and and has a checkered pattern on it. Surrounding Areas To become an orcall1-7757!!! HURRYI AVOID THE RUSH!II watch E.R. is that so bad? Please, please, please call Chis at independent contractor you must be APPLICA TJONS DUE FEB 16 Prometheus ProModem 9600+, .. * • * • * * 4-1697 if you happen to find it. 18 years or older Use an insured cables for Mac. $60 OBO. Bob PLACE YOUR VALENTINE'S DAY AMY .... 
car van or truck & available a min. @at 634-2395 ClASSIFIED ADS· NOW!! I know you're having a bad week. REWARD$$ Lost detachable face-of 5 daylight hours daily To reserve FOR RENT •• * * * * * * * We on the 3rd floor really care. plate for PIONEER CD car stereo. a route in your neighborhood Call 1-GORGEOUS RED 1989 MAZDA no soup for you. Lost on 2/3. Should be in black 800·827-1200 Job #1101B 10am-AX·? CONVERTIBLE, LOADED, KC-Happy 19th Birthday! Liz plastic case w/ "PIONEER" written 6pm Mon/Fri.ADSCorp EOE THE POTATO HOUSE 8 BED-LOW MILES. MINT CONDITION, Love Latty on it. If found PLEASE call Mark @ ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GARAGE KEPT, FACULTY Snap-a-Scam is here! On sale 634-3489! NEED 3-4 PEOPLE WHO WANT ALSO 3·4BEDROOM HOMES OWNED-$14,500-234-6332. GREAT MOMENTS IN HISTORY Friday & Saturday nights in the din­---------TO LIVE IN CAMPUS VIEW FOR CLOSE TO ND GOOD AREA February 11, 1969: ing halls and in LaFortune 7 -·9 
LOST on South Quad/Badin 2ND SEMESTER NEXT YEAR. 2773097 Jennifer Aniston Born! p.m. Sun.··Tues. All proceeds to
TICKETS
royal blue Adidas hat CALL CHRIS AT X3574 benefit the Mandy Abdo Fund. So, Sentimental Value Vote Mclnerney/Wolsfeld! bring your most wanted Jist &
..........,.. ............. ** ****•*******'~~*••••• Pis call x 2493 BIG EAST TICKETS WANTED 2 BOA APT @ COLLEGE PARK Need 4 Seton Hall GAs $2/pic., and we'll capture your ----------FOR RENT FOR SUMMER ONLY. Call Ellie 4-1325 Hey Goofy-valentine on film. LOST: A pair of gold/red glasses at TOP$$$ PAID $800/MONTH (2,3 OR 4 PEOPLE) I licked my belly and picked my Senior Bar last Thurs ... if u have CALL SARAH OR JILL X2907 Need 1 St John's GA naval today. You're just jealous that you don't 
............."'....................* •••••• 
info, call Alex x1717 .... girls don't dig (800)269-5849 Call Joe@ 634-1782 Scooby have a lingerie story of your own ... guys who run into wallsl 

hiday, February 9, 1996 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 

Rangers drop rival Islanders, continue dominance at MSG 
By KEN RAPPOPORT 
Assnciarc:d Press 
NEW YOHK 

Madison Square Garden has beeome a no-win situation for visiting hockey teams. 
The New York Islanders became the latest victims in the New York Hangers' mount­ing home-ice streak, dropping a 6-2 decision Thursday night. 
That made it 23 straight (18­0-5) without a loss at the Garden for the Hangers. 
They can tie a team record next Thursday against Montnml, which holds the N\11. nH:ord of 34 straight at home without a loss. 
"We'rn getting contributions from everybody, and again it was a perfeet example here tonight," said Hangers captain Mark Messier, who had his 37th goal and an assist. 
Hay Ferraro, a one-time lsland11rs playoff hero, led the oiTm!Sfl with two goals and an assist as the Hangers returned home following a two-week road trip. 
"I had some chances," Ferraro said. "It was nice to get up :{-0, but they battled and put us on our heels for the linn! 10 minutes of the second period." 
The Hangers started the night with the second-best reeord in the league. They looked worthy of that spot by taking a 3-0 lead early in the 
· Look who's crossed over to 21 
Happy Birthday with lots of love, Mom, Dad, Jaime, Mac, Mama, Poo, and Lou 
Finance Club Chicago Trip 
Tour the Chicago Board of Trade floor-during trading! Visit with Notre Dame graduates working at an investment bank Stay at the Chicago Marriott Downtown Sunday, Monday and Tuesday of Spring Break 
(March 10th, 11th and 12th) 
Details and Applications are available in the Finance Department Office 
Total cost: $40 
http://www.nd.edu/-finclub/finclubhome.html 
second period against their metropolitan-area rivals whom they beat 4-2 Tuesday night to wind up a 2-1-1 road trip. 
Ferraro scored the game's third goal, and eventual game­winner. Then when the Islanders closed to 3-2 in the second period, he clinched it with his 23rd in the third pe­riod. 
Glenn Healy, another ex­Islander, also was a key figure for the Hangers with 24 saves. 
"It's been a good run," Healy said of the Rangers' streak. "The team as a whole has played very well, well enough to keep pace with the best in the league. That's important to ke~~.that home ice in the play­ofls. 
For the Islanders, it was just another loss in a losing season. 
"Although it didn't go in our favor, I cannot fault the effort on this team," Islanders coach Mike Milbury said. "They hung in there for 60 minutes, and that's alii can ask for." 
The Hangers improved their overall home record to 19-2-5 and their recent record to 7-1­4 in their last 12 games. 
The lhst-place Islanders, who started the night 36 points be­hind the Atlantic Division-lead­ing Hangers, lost for the fourth 
time in six games and  the  
fourth straight time  to  the  
Hangers this season.  

Also scoring for the Rangers were Pat Verbeek, Sergei Nemchinov and Ulf Samuelsson. Niklas Andersson and Brad Dalgarno scored for the Islanders. 
The Rangers took a 2-0 lead in the first period on goals by Verbeek and Messier. 
Verbeek scored on a power play, scooping the puck into the net during a scramble in front at 1:48. Messier scored at 
7:43 when he tipped in a great p~ss down low from Alexei Kovalev. 
With the Rangers on a power play in the second, Ferraro beat Tommy Soderstrom from the right circle at 9:12 to make it 3-0. 
Andersson and Delgarno then scored goals 12 seconds apart to cut the Rangers' lead to 3-2. Andersson deflected a blue-line shot by Mathieu Schneider at 12:20 and Dalgarno capped a 3-on-2 break at 12:32. 
The Rangers put an end 'to any Islanders hopes for a comeback· when Ferraro scored crashing the net at 4:51 of the third, Nemehinov cashed in a breakaway at 17:49 and Samuelsson scored from the slot at 19:45. 
Islanders left wing Ken Belanger was held out of Thursday night's game with a concussion suffered during a morning practice. 
An Is1anders spokesman described it as mild. 
Hawks blast Blues 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Boston natives Tony Amonte and Jeremy Roenick each scored twice and the Chicago Blackhawks connected live times in the third period Thursday night, stretching their unbeaten streak to nine with a 6-1 victory over the St. Louis Blues. 
The Blackhawks are 7-0-2 since their last loss Jan. 22 and have been especially stingy in the last live games, all victories. In that span they've outscored their opponents 23-5. They've also won live in a row on the road. 
The Blues were 0-3-1 on a four-game homestand and got outscored 20-8. 
This one was tight until the third period and the Blues had a 32-21 advantage in shots. But Ed Belfour had a strong game in goal for Chicago until the blowout began. 
Amonte added three"'assists and Gary Suter and Bob Probert also scored against an ineffective Grant Fuhr, making his 53rd consecutive start. The Blackhawks are 9-1-2 in their last 12 games and 18-3-4 in their last 25. 
Suter broke a 1-1 tie with his 16th goaL and first since Dec. 29, on a power play at 3:34 of the third. lie shot from the point and the puck appeared to deflect off the stick of Blues forward Peter Zezel on its way past Fuhr. 
After that, the goals came fast and furious. Roenick made it a two-goal lead at 9:29, converting on a 2-on-1 break with Amonte on a shot that appeared to deflect off AI Macinnis' stick. Amante's second goal made it 4-1 at 12:18, Probert scored at 14:01 and Hoenick at 15:22. 
Roenick was elbowed in the face by Geoff Courtnall after he shot the puck for his second goal, and 28th overall, and he was down for several minutes. 
Amonte got the only goal of the first period, recovering the puck after Fuhr sprawled to poke it out of the erease, then slipping it into the open left side at 11:56. 
The Blues tied it in the second period while Probert was serving a double minor for cross-checking Tony Twist in the nose. Brett Hull fed the puck across the crease to Shayne Corson, who scored his 15th goal on an easy backhander at 5:52. 
The biggest buzz the first two periods came when Probert and Twist were on the ice. In addition to Probert's penalty, which came after the two were locked together for about a half-minute at both ends of the rink, the two fought to a draw midway through the first period. 
Please Recycle The Observer 
Wrn~~~ 
529.99 dozen 
'9~8~ 
----S9)9 bunch 
Delivered free on campus 
272-0970 Maternawski's Flowers 
Visa &Mastercard welcome 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 9, 1996 
_, • Cou.EGE BAsKETBAlL 
By JAMES HANNAH 
Associated PteSJi 
DAYTON, Ohio 
Dayton center Chris Daniels, one of college bas­ketball's top field-goal shoot­ers, died today shortly after being taken to a hospital. 
Daniels, 22, was pro­nounced dead at 5:31 a.m. at Miami Valley Hospital, said hospital spokeswoman Pam Hoskins. 
Montgomery County Coroner James Davis said the cause of death could not be determined from preliminary autopsy results. 
However, Davis said there was no evidence that Daniels died of a stroke, a ruptured vessel in the brain, or any effects from a cortisone shot he had taken for a sprained ankle. He said there was no evidence of drugs or alcohol in Daniels' system. 
Davis said that Daniels had a slightly enlarged heart, but that was not unusual for an athlete his size. Davis said he did not think the enlarged heart contributed to Daniels' death. 
The coroner said he will know more when lab re­sults come back in two to three weeks. 
Daniels was second in the nation in field-goal percent­age, hitting 6 7. 9 percent of his shots. He averaged 12.9 points per game, second best on the Dayton team, and was third in rebounding with 6 per game. 
''We're obviously grieving right now," Dayton coach Oliver Purnell said at a news conference on the UD cam­pus. . 
"We're sort of lean1ng on 
each other to deal with this 
very difficult situation .... Our 
guys are in shock." 
The Flyers' Atlantic 10 Conference game with LaSalle tonight was postponed. 


wa"'~~ 


Nittany Lions Edge Illini 
Associated Press 
STATE COLLEGE, PA. 

When Penn State's usually ac­curate 3-point shooting failed, Matt Gaudio took the ball inside and took over. 
Gaudio, a 6-foot-8 power for­ward who sat out last season because of a bad back, said he was pain-free Thursday as he scored 18 of his 21 points in the second half of No. 10 Penn State's 61-58 victory over Illinois. 
"I think yesterday and today, it's the best I have felt all year," said Gaudio, who decided to come back to the team after one season as a student assistant coach. "I just felt so loose." 
Gaudio looked loose, using pump fakes and spinning layups to score on anyone who guarded him. With 1:40 to go, Gaudio made an off-balance bank shot to put the Nittany Lions up 57­53. 
Jerry Hester, who had 16 points, stole a pass and scored to cut the lead to two before Dan Earl grabbed his own miss and was fouled. Earl's free throws gave Penn State (17-2 overall, 8­2 Big Ten) a four-point lead with 
18.7 seconds left. 
Kiwane Garris, who led Illinois (14-8, 3-7) with 20 points, cut the lead to 59-58 with a 3-point­er. Gaudio, fouled as Penn State · put the ball back in play, swished both free throws and the Nittany Lions led by three. 
Garris missed a 3-pointer and Gaudio grabbed the rebound as time expired. 
Illinois coach Lou Henson said Donovan Williams may have 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
Search Service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 


South Bend, IN 46617 (219)232-8444 

The Observer 
is now hiring for the following paid position: 
Assistant Accent Editor 
Freshmen and Sophomores are encouraged to apply. Some journalism experience and basic knowledge of desktop publishing helpful. 
Please bring a one page personal statement to Krista in 314 LaFortune by 2 pm, Thursday February 15. Call1-4540 with uestions. 
** Ha"e any talent? ** 
Come and show your stuff at the 
TROOP N.D. TALENT SHOW 
AUDITIONS: Monday, February 12 at Washington Hall 
Call4-4029 for sign-up times or questions! 
made contact with Garris on the final shot. Penn State coach Jerry Dunn said Garris leaned into Williams. 
"If there was contact, I don't think it was initiated by the defense," he said. 
Henson was surprised the game was so close. 
"I don't know how we can stay this close to a team this good when we shoot this poorly," Henson said. 
Illinois shot 36.2 percent from the field, but that was actually better than Penn State's 34.5 percent, which tied a season low. Penn State, the nation's top 3-point shooting team, made just 6 of 22 from behind the arc. 
No. 17 UClA 73, California 65 
OAKLAND, Calif. 
Henderson had 21 points and UClA held California scoreless for the final 3:57 as the No. 17 Bruins scored the final nine points for a 73-65 win Thursday night. 
Kris Johnson added 15 points and Ed O'Bannon had all 12 of his points in the first half for UCLA (16-5, 9-1 Pac-10). O'Bannon blocked two shots in the final minute of the game as Cal tried to rally. 
Shareef Abdur-Rahim had 24 points and 16 rebounds for Cal (12-7, 6-4). Tremaine Fowlkes added 14 points and nine re­bounds. 
UClA, which has won 19 of its last 20 conference games in a streak that began last season, hit 53 percent of its shots-matching its season average, which is best in the nation. The Bruins are 14-1 when hitting better than 50 percent of their shots this season. 
Cal's starting backcourt of Randy Duck (two points) and Jelani Gardner (three points) was held to 2-for-6 shooting. The Bears have lost three straight. 
O'Bannon and Henderson had 12 points each as UCLA took a 36-34 halftime lead. 
Abdur-Rahim had 12 points and nine rebounds in the first half for Cal. 
The first 10 minutes of the second half were tight, with five ties, but the Bruins opened a 60­52 lead with 8:24 left. Cal responded with a seven-point run that began with a three­point play by Abdur-Rahim. 
The Bears took a 65-64 lead with 3:57 left on a 3-pointer by Fowlkes, but Henderson hit a pair of free throws and Jelani McCoy scored on a 15-foot jumper. Cal had two chances to tie, but O'Bannon blocked a long shot by Fowlkes and Ed Gray missed a 3-pointer. 
After Cameron Dollar hit a pair of free throws to increase UCLA's lead to 70-65, O'Bannon blocked another shot by Fowlkes and the Bruins added three late points. 
The game was Cal's first sell­out at the Oakland Coliseum since March 5, 1994, Jason Kidd's final home game for the Bears. Cal had played 10 other games at the 15,039-seat Coliseum since then. 


Valentine Specials 
Mugs & Kisses............. $19.95 
3 Mylar with 2latex balloons attached to a mug filled with Hershey Kisses. 
Fragrant Valentine..... $25.00 
A distinctive arrangement of carnations and miniatures, baby's breath and porn poms in a wicker basket with a fragrant sachet. 
Teddy Valentine.......... $32.95 
Our Teddy delivers a basket of fragrant carnations, daisies, and porn poms. Sure to make someone's day. 
Roses............................. $44.95 
1 dozen arranged in a vase. Elegant! Baby's Breath $5 extra. 
Also available: Valentine Goodie Bags 
' :_,  Flower Market  
(/)_ • ')JIJ,  So 1635 Edison Market uth Bend, Indiana 46637  
(219) 272-0902  
1st 100 orders receive a Free Mylar Balloon 


friday, february 9, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 

-

Modell Baltimore bound, 'Browns' stay put 
By CHUCK MELVIN Asso<iated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Thn NFI.'s promise to put a tnam baek in Clevnland by 1')')') wasn't enough to satisfy Llw I!Jadnrs of fan groups who have been lighting the Browns' movn to Baltimore. 
"I feel, as a Browns fan, like my heart has been ripped out. Wtl have bem1 eomplntnly and utterly wronged," said Seth Task, who quit as the Browns' mascot in November and fornwd the t\meriean Sports Fan t\ssoeiation. "It dons noth­ing to help the situation in any other market or any other sport." 
Under thn proposal worked out among llw NFI., the city and Browns owner Art Modell on Thursday, a new team would be in placP. in Cleveland by 1'J<J'J, with tlw Browns i m nwd iatnl y moving to Baltimore while leaving behind their name and colors. The lnague's owners will vote on tlw proposal on Friday. 
Tlw leagun also would pro­vidn around $48 million to 
Cleveland as a loan to help build a new stadium. 
"You don't take a team from a fan base that has supported it for 50 years and then say that it is OK, that we will make it up to you later," Task said. 
"That's wrong, That's not how you do business in t\merica." 
Task's feelings were echoed by Bob Grace, national chair­man of the Browns Backers organization and co-chairman of Cleveland's Save Our Browns committee. 
"I do not think the city of Cleveland deserves an ex­pansion team, because that's the lowest level of football you can get," Grace said. 
"That's three years of no football and three to live years of crappy football after that." 
But if the league keeps open the possibility of moving an existing team to Cleveland, Grace said, the deal is "proba­bly the best we could do, whether we went to court or not." 
The eity had sued Modell to block his plan to move the team to Baltimore this year, 
Winter Defiance 
"  Dance  
When:  Saturday, February 10  
10 p.m.  -2 a.m.  

\Where: Knights of Columbus ~cost: $1 Members 
$2 Non-members 
U'~ ~ ad,~ t4e fu9id
© 
SfJ<di Zle-t ~! 
j 
Questions? Call John (ND) 4-1419 or Erin (SMC) 284-5507 Brought to you by "?t¥ Stde, the group that provides something other than the usual social scene . 

claiming the move would vio­late terms of a lease that runs through 1998. A trial on the suit was scheduled to begin Monday in Cleveland. 
"If we knew we were not going to have football until 1999, I would still be a little bit upset because I think the city of Cleveland should have prior­ity over the city of Baltimore as far as having NFL football," Grace said. 
"If the worda-ge means there's an open door for an­other team to be moved here in 1996, '97 or '98 ... yeah, that would satisfy me." 
Grace said he doubted the settlement would help the NFL patch up the problem of "fran­chise free agency." 
"They've never learned a thing out of this," he said. "I think it's business as usual for them. I don't think they've got­ten their house in order and probably won't until fans con­tinue their revolt.!' 
Bruce Hoffman, the Maryland Stadium Authority executive director, said the agreement allows Baltimoreans to feel easier about the team coming to Maryland. 
"There's not a person in Baltimore that wasn't rooting for Cleveland to have a team," he said. "I think it's great. Having lost our own team once, we feel the pain that Cleveland went through. Nobody was proud of that." 
lie said leaving the Browns name and colors behind should make all sides happy. 
"I think it's great of Mr. Modell to leave that behind." he said. ''I'm sure he'll come up with a good name for Baltimore -something that his friends can rally around and call it their team." 
Word that a deal was pend­ing came as a relief to some Browns players. 
"It's a tough situation for everybody that's involved with it, and it is somewhat of a relief to know where every­body's going to be, what we're going to try to d-o," running hack Earnest Byner told WEWS-TV. 
But there was also sadrHlSS. 
"I'm very disappointed," defensive back Stevon Moore said, "because I got hurt dur­ing the Cineinnati game (the Browns' last home game), and I didn't get the opportunity to wave to the fans and say good­
-
bye, thanks for all the memo­ries." 

Date set for Blue-Gold game 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame football team will hold two Blue-Gold intrasquad scrimmages on suc­cessive Saturdays, April 20 and 27. 1996. 
Kickoff both days will be at 
1:30 p.m. EST. 
Approximately 10,000 seats will be available for each scrimmage, with all tickets in the unreserved, general ad­mission category. The Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley will sponsor the scrimmages ­as it has the annual Blue-Gold games in the past-as benefits for its scholarship fund. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students will be admitted free of charge to the April 27 scrim­mage. 
Both events will be controlled scrimmages, with Irish coaches on the field to help orchestrate the workouts. Notre Dame players will be available for autographs after the April 20 scrimmage and before the April 27 event. The April 20 scrim­mage is being held in conjunc­tion with Notre Dame's annual clinic for high school coaches. 
Tickets will be made avail­able to members of thi) Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley through an early March mail­ing. Tickets will go on sale to the general public later in March. Specific ticket prices have not yet been determined. 
Notre Dame will begin its spring football practice March 27. 

If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 1--4543. 
INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ORGANIZATION 
PRESENTS 
FESTI1'JtL '96 
"PEACE AROUND THE WORLD" Conze Join us in a Celebration ofMusic and Culture 
Feb. I Oth, 1996 
tickets at
Washington Hall 

LaFortune Info Desk
7:00 p.in. 

STUDENTS/FACIJLTY: $:1.00 
or at the Door 
GENERAL PUBLIC: $5.00 
-----~--------­

The Observer· SPORTS Friday, February 9, 1996

Bears decline Indiana invite, .Belles in giving mood 
BySTEPHANIEBUEK and !USB grabbed 47 team
propose new hoine in Windy City 
Sports Writer rebounds apiece. However, the Lady Titans were 18 of 25 fromBy PAUL DRISCOLL 72,000-seat stadium adjoining largely patronized by tourists, Though rising temperatures the foul line, compared to the
Associated Press the existing McCormick Place convention visitors and other 
thawed the chill of a recent cold Belles' 7 of 9.
Exposition Center would out-of-towners. 
spell, Indiana University-South Saint Mary's had three scorersCHICAGO require the Bears to contribute The taxes are used to pay off 
Bend kept the Saint Mary's in double digits, with sophomore Gov. Jim Edgar on Thursday $17 5 million to the construction McCormick Place bond holders, College basketball team on ice guard Brenda Hoban leading the proposed a $465 million plan costs. but they generate a surplus suf­Thursday night. IUSB came team with 13. IUSB's Stacey
for a domed stadium on the The Metropolitan Pier and ficient to pay the Exposition 
away with a 72-63 victory over Chicklon had a game high 18city's lakefront that would pro­Exposition Authority, which Authority's share of a domed the Belles at Angela.
vide a new home for the runs McCormick Place, would stadium, the governor said. points. 
While St. Mary's came out cold With Belles leading scorer,
Chicago Bears and facilities for provide $190 million. McCaskey said he was taken against the Lady Titans on both junior Jennie Taubenheim, side­
mega-conventions, the Super The authority also would aback by the amount the team 
ends of the floor, Belles head lined indefinitely with a tornBowl and the Final Four bas­build a $50 million parking would have to put up. 
coach Marvin Wood attributed ACL, Saint Mary's will rely on itsketball championships. garage and receive all its rev­"This is an extraordinary the loss to his team's poor of­bench for more balanced scor­
Edgar said such a stadium enue. amount to ask a team to pay. 
fensive play. ing and enthusiasm. Wood said would bring hundreds of mil­The city and state would each We would only use it 10 to 20 . "The thing that killed us was that junior forward Jen Turbiaklions of dollars annually to the contribute $25 million for land days a year and it's a far, far lousy passing," said Wood. "We provided that aspect of hiscity and could be built without acquisition and infrastructure. heavier burden than you'll see were weak handling the ball team's game last night. 
raising taxes or creating new The Republican governor said in most any other multipurpose against the press. I thought we The Belles entered the game
ones. Daley's support is essential to facility of this type," McCaskey were over that; we ought to against IUSB looking to snap aThe governor said the plan get the plan through the said. "I told the governor that. 
score against that press." . three-game losing streak, andhinges on the support of the Legislature. He mentioned that this is the The Lady Titans capitalized on come one step closer to realizing Bears and Mayor Richard M. "I don't think I can convince beginning of the negotiations." 
the Belles' 16 turnovers. After their goal of a .500 season.
Daley, and Edgar said he the mayor," Edgar said. "But The Bears say Soldier Field battling back from an eleven­As it stands, the Belles, now 6­expects it will be easier to sell it business, labor and others doesn't generate the profits point deficit in the second half, 10, have their work cut out forto the NFL team. interested in the economic well­needed to build a winning NFL St: Mary's cut IUSB's lead to them. Facing two top-rated"But I'm confident that the being of the city I would hope team and they have rejected five, 62-57. teams, Calvin and Defiance,mayor wants what is best for would convince him." Daley's plan to renovate it. 
However, with 5:05 left in the within the next three weeksthe city, and I believe this is He said he believes his plan For months, the Bears toyed 
game, freshman forward Sheila places their goal of achieving abest," Edgar said at a news answers Daley's objection that. with an invitation to move to Sandine turned the ball over on winning season in jeopardy. 
conference. he doesn't want the costs of any northwest Indiana, but that a break-away layup that would Saint Mary's travels to AlbionDaley did not completely stadium· to be borne solely by idea fell through because of have put SMC within three College Saturday at 3 p.m. forreject the proposal, but he residents of Chicago, that any opposition to an income tax 
points of IUSB. They Lady their third game this week.
ridiculed the idea that the stadi­taxes used for construction there to help pay for a stadium Titans answered with a three­According to Wood, Albion hasum would be a big money­come as well from the suburbs complex in Gary. 
point shot at the other end, won few games, but his teammaker on conventions, the and beyond. Edgar said he is confident of launching a four-minute run. cannot overlook them. 
Super Bowl and other spectacu­First, Edgar said, the $25 mil­Republican support in the 
Wood blamed such turnovers "We will prepare for theirlar events. lie said cost projec­lion contributed by the city is Legislature. 
on lack of concentration. press and work on passingtions were unrealistically low less than Daley is willing to Senate President James "We weren't ready to play; it drills, but it's hard to make aand that he would not raise spend to renovate the Bears' "Pate" Philip of Wood Dale said took us three or four minutes to game plan when we executeproperty taxes to help pay for current home, Soldier Field, his Republican majority would get started. We have to be poorly," said Wood. "I don'tit. and a domed stadium would be probably support the plan. 
ready to play when the ball know what to expect (from the"He's saying go raise your of much greater economic ben­'It certainly would help the bounces," said Wood. players). I hope to get a goodreal estate taxes for (Bears efit. state, would help the city of Although the teams matched effort out of each of them, but Iowner) Mike McCaskey," Daley Second, the Exposition Chicago," Philip said. 
up evenly in most aspects of the am not getting that now."
told reporters. ''I'm not going to Authority's contribution comes House Speaker Lee Daniels, game, free throws told the story. The Belles return home todo that. Do you think I'm from taxes on hotels, limou­R-Elmhurst, said he was "will­Shooting 36% and 37% from the Angela to host Calvin Collegenuts?" sines, downtown restaurants ing to sit down and discuss the field, respectively, Saint Mary's Feb. 13 at 7 p.m ..
Edgar's proposal for the and other sources that are issue." 
AIRLINES 
lbot~:',_...,<*Wi" ~ !!UH..\U n~:~~?~"iS.:_Iw. ~~"*'~~m~~««~tJ~~ ~~$3'tMg,11-s_~~rlrr·ti~~ h31 ~~~ttt roo~w; «llJ~~~£ ~-:::¥Lrt. r<r;v.it. bH~rm ~... 't:*l'-.~ ~~_r.t:;t.;). !A:b~·. ~WJ.<~ ~~?i!~rf$:. ~~-.H:~1~m·t~~·k...\m:~~~.n~-~~~ t• f'-U1h.tw-A~ tift<i~4tt.l ~ ~c"-m!l~~1r ~4-tMf.•~OOl~flCISI'i~~MU.!"i!S~'<Wf,J:t"':..a,d:;.;t~ .u.i~hJ:~i((~~r~~.(~VHi$~f~~~~ft#~ltt"w.!:.IW~!"~.. W~H\,!~IA'<I>fu~~~tn".lt~~~U'6"~~9~-M~~Wt~f"-h..·l"~~~·~~~a1¢.#!Wk..-':~~~~~~-.~W~tn-l~~~#l:~'t¢d~'(t:~;~tn.>~;~ 
1HE BROADiv100R ~..­
cotORAOO SPRINGS 
f."OS\:l~1K~i' Jf \"Y.>:H\~ W!UAO
~~ 

800-679·3707 800-00-VISIT
800-722-5775 OUR OfflClAL RfMAl CAR 


Whether it's for Fun in the California Sun, or some extreme Colorado skiing/snowboarding, let Western Pacific be your ticket to a well-deserved Sprtng Break-at a Super Low fare. 
Las Vegas ($109), Phoenix ($94) 

-------------------------------------------------------~----------_,----~ 
The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
Knicks deal Williams, Smith 
Former Irish star heads out west 
By KELLEY SHANNON Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO 

The San Antonio Spurs ac­quired forwards Charles Smith and Monty Williams from the New York Knicks on Thursday night in exchange for J.R. Reid, Brad Lohaus and a 1996 first-round draft pick. 
The Spurs, in first place in the Midwest Division heading into the All-Star break, will ask Smith to fill the void at power forward that was created by the trade of Dennis Rodman to Chicago. 
"He is a proven veteran, who can both score and defend, and brings a great deal of experience and leadership to our team," general manager Gregg Popovich said of Smith. "Our front line of David Robinson, Charles Smith and Sean Elliott is going to be among the best in the NBA." 
For the Knicks, the main benefit is dealing away two players with long-term con­tracts. 
The deal is expected to free up between $7.5 and $8 mil­lion worth of salary cap space for next season. 
New York will use the money to lure one or more high-pro­file unrestricted free agents next summer. 
Among those available will be Reggie Miller, Tim Hardaway, Juwan Howard and Kenny Anderson. 
San Antonio will keep the first-round draft pick, which originally belonged to Detroit, if it is among the top nine in the 1996 draft. In that case, New York would get San Antonio's 1997 first-round pick. 
"The pick was very impor­tant, because now we have three first-round picks, and it also was important to free some salary cap room for the summer," general manager Ernie Grunfeld said. 
"The players we ·got in return will allow us to stay at a very high competitive level. We'll still be competitive in the playoffs. Reid can help us fill some of the void, and our younger players will get an op­portunity to play more." 
Smith, 30, was averaging career-lows of 7.4 points and 
3.9 rebounds, down from his lifetime averages of 15.7 points and 6.0 rebounds. The best season for the 6-foot-1 0 for­ward was 1989-90 when he averaged 21.1 points for the Clippers. 
Often forced to play small forward rather than power for­ward or center, Smith has struggled in that ro.Ie and has been the target of boos at Madison Square Garden. 
"Charles was a big contribu­tor on a team that averaged 56 wins here. He's a fine person, but this was a situation where we could get two solid players in return and create some pos­sibilities for the summer," Grunfeld said. 
Popovich wasn't worried by Smith's struggles in New York. He praised Smith's athleticism, intelligence and big build. 
"We're looking to be a better basketball team and Charles Smith is real important in helping us do that," he said. "He is going to be able to play an all-around basketball game for us." 
Williams, 24, played sparing­ly this season. A 1994 first­round pick from Notre Dame, he averaged 1.4 points in 14 games. 
"In Monty Williams we are getting a solid young player who hasn't yet had the chance to prove his abilities at this level. We think he has some great potential and he will help solidify our bench," Popovich said. 
Heid, 27, will be going to his third team. The 6-9 forward, who averaged 6.5 points and 
3.8 rebounds in 32 games for the Spurs, will back up Charles Oakley and Anthony Mason. Reid came to the Spurs in December 1992. He was draft­ed by Charlotte in 1989 as the fifth player selected overall. 
Lohaus, a 6-foot-11 center who specializes in 3-point shooting, will be playing for his seventh NBA team. lie aver­aged only 3.3 points in 32 games for San Antonio. 
Reid's contract expires at the end of this season and Lohaus, who signed as a free agent last fall, has a two-year deal. 
Smith is in the third year of a 
six-year deal worth $21  mil­ 
lion.  
Asked why the  team  was  

making a trade while vying for the best record in the Western Conference, Popovich said: "I don't think it matters if you're in first place or last place. You're always trying to better your team." 

Better than walkin naked through tall grass~ 


TOMORROWlll 

SAT., FEB.lO: BOB HOLMAN &MIGUEL ALGARIN 
SUN., FEB.ll: TOBIAS WOlFF 
MON., FEB.12: AliSTAIR MAClEOD 
TUES., FEB.13: STUDENT READING 
WED., FEB.14: FRANCES SHERWOOD 
THURS., FEB.l5: GWENDOlYN BROOKS 
THE 1996 SOPHOMORE LITERARY FESTIVAL COMMITIEE IS PROUD TO SPONSOR THE FIRST SLF BOOK DRIVE TO HELP ORGANIZATIONS OF THE SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY WITH DONATIONS OF LITERARY BOOKS. GENTLY USED BOOK TO ANY NIGHT OF THE FESTIVAL AND HAVE YOUR NAME ENTERED INTO A RAFFLE TO WIN AN AUTO­
GRAPHED COPY OF THAT NIGHT'S FEATURED GUEST AUTHOR. STUDENTUNIONBOARD 
I ~ 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 9, 1996 
I-
Ching offers co01plete package 
I 
I 
~ 
By TIM SHERMAN

I 
Associate Sports Editor 

I 
-

I 
Normally, it's a statement re­served for the Steve Youngs and Emmitt Smiths of the world. 
That's not the case for Jason Ching. ''I'm going to Disneyworld this weekend," said Ching, one 
of the more highly touted mem­bers of the newly unveiled Notre Dame class of 2000. 
But Ching isn't going to cele­brate a Super Bowl victory. Rather, the Honolulu native will be traveling cross-conti­nent to collect just another in a long line of accolades. 
''I'm going for Reebok's All­American team," said Ching, who will be meeting future class and linemate Brad Williams. ''I'm looking forward to it." 
The same can be said of the Irish coaching staff with re­gards to Ching's arrival. 
"I think we have some people who have size and are used to playing in the defensive line that can provide you with some 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
senior campaign to attract the Irish. 
Harper, too. shined like a 
prep star should, making over 
70 catches in his junior year 
alone. 
All along Harper has been 
listed as a wide re­
ceiver/defensive back but after 
talking with Lou Holtz and 

anchors, which we have not had," Holtz stated. 
The 6-foot-4, 260-pound de­fensive end was the object of a heavy recruiting war between Notre Dame, Michigan. Stanford and UCLA. Many fig­ured Ching would stay out west, but the lure of Notre Dame was just too strong. 
"Notre Dame had the best mix in terms of academics. ath­letics and atmosphere," Ching reflected. "I just took in every­thing when I visited and I feel comfortable there." 
Ching also feels comfortable at defensive end. 
Already tipping the scales at 260 pounds, one would expect Ching to eventually get even bigger and maybe move inside to nose tackle. 
Ching doesn't see it that way. 
''I'm 260 now and I want to stay there," said Ching, who can run a 4.9 40 yard dash and bench presses 380 pounds. "I think end is my best position. But I know a lot of people will be moving around." 
With just three experienced returners coming back for the 
Dave Roberts, he foresees a permanent home on the offen­sive side. 
"I talked to coach Lou Holtz and he was saying they needed some help for the receiver situ­ation," Harper recalled. "He told me they're going to throw more. 
"Ron Powlus is a Reisman Trophy candidate and in order for him to win they have to open it up. That's fine with me." 
But even without the pote_n-Irish. Ching should get a shot to contribute immediately. 
"Hopefully, I can come in and contribute. I think I can." 
His resume suggests that that should be the case. 
Ching closed out his prep ca­reer this season with 112 tack­les, half being of the solo vari­ety. In addition, he was a quarterback's nightmare, recording 15 sacks and hurry­ing 30 passes. 
Along with Williams', Ching's decision to attend Notre Dame reverses, or at least halts, a trend of the Irish recruiting oversized linebackers and turn­ing them into defensive line­man. 
For defensive coordinator Bob Davie, it has to be a relief. 
Ching also felt a heavy bur­den lifted with the announce­ment of where he'll play his college football. 
"I feel relieved," Ching re­vealed. "It's like the pressure is off now." 
Actually, when one enters the Notre Dame football program as a first-team All-American, the pressure is just starting. 
tial of the new-look offense, Notre Dame seemed to be the place for Dawson all along. Having an older brother who starred before going to on to NFL success doesn't hurt. 
From Lake's experience, Lewis knows that one doesn't have to catch 50 passes a year to be a success. But it wouldn't hurt. 
Harper also has former Irish wideout stars on his mind. "I really wasn't into college football growtng up," Harper 
Nelson bolsters strong receiving class 
By THOMAS SCHLIDT Assistant Sports Editor 
They called themselves America's finest receivers on Saturdays. In 1993 Derrick Mayes wasn't even a starter as Lake Dawson made the acro­batic grabs and speedster Clint Johnson sped past cor­nerbacks for the Irish signa­ture bomb. 
Yet, with Dawson and Johnson graduated and Mayes having played his final season, it didn't seem as if the Irish had enough receivers to play Euchre much less open up the passing offense. 
Then enter the class of 2000's receiving corps and Notre Dame's 24th signee Raki Nelson. The 6-foot-1 178 pound Nelson posted breath­taking numbers his senior year while catching 71 passes for 
1.192 yards and 16 touch• downs. This was after grab­bing 61 passes for 1.020 yards and eight touchdowns his ju­
recalled. "But along with the area schools, I knew about Notre Dame for a long time. 
Guys  like  Tim  Brown  and  
"Rocket  Ismail"  were  just  
great."  

There's one former Irish su­perstar though who Harper is waiting on. 
"On my visit, I didn't get to meet Derrick Mayes. You could say I was disappointed." 
Dawson, on the other hand, is practically a part of the AFROS (America's Finest 
nio~: year. Yet, it may have been these numbers that made Nelson's decision so surpris­ing. Conventional wisdom stated that the speedy dynamo from Pennsylvania would steer clear of the grounded Irish offense. In state power Penn State, North Carolina, and Steve Spurrier's quarterback­led Florida squad seemed the perfect fits for him, but offen­sive coordinator and recruiting guru Dave Roberts wouldn't have it. 
The Irish couldn't afford to let a prime time wide out like Nelson get away. Roberts was able to talk Nelson out of com­mitting to North Carolina and held off a last minute charge from Florida. 
Nelson has the ability to step into the receiver position right away for the Irish. He also re­turned kickoffs and punts in high school. Nelson could be the game breaker on special teams that the Irish have been missing. 
Receivers on Saturday) by 
blood. 
Just call it "Family Ties". 
"I felt at home up there," Harper said from home in Orangeburg, SC. "The people were all real nice. I know I'll get a good athletic and aca­demic career and the exposure is great. I just got a good over­all feeling." 
"I run track in the spring but I'll continue to work out. I have a program that Notre Dame sent me, so I'll follow that." 


----------~----------~~----------------------­
Friday, fcbrua'I _9,_1_9_?6___---;::---=-::~--::-;-::-=-:-~------~T=he==::O::b:=se=r=ve=r=·=S=P=O=R=T=S==========================================p=a:::g::e=2=;1 
HOCkey 
continued from page 24 
(Wrnnnial powHr Bowling Crnen this weektlnd at the Joyce Centtlr if tlllly plan on claiming thn final CCIIA playoll" spot. 
"WB rlllml to focus on tlw task at hand and not worry about who's in front or behind us," said Irish head eoaeh Dave Poulin. "Our goal obviously is to make the playoffs, and we can accomplish that if we play llw way we are eapabltl of." 
Like a poodhl in lhe path of an 18-wlwlller. tlw Irish are not nxpec:tnd to provide mueh of a threat to Stlcond place Michigan. Aft<lr humiliating the Irish 11-1 just two wetlks ago, tlw 21-5-2 Wolverines hope to do the same in front of a sellout rrowd tonight at the .JACC. 
Lnading thn way for the Wolvtlrirws is the most explo­sivtl offnnsivn trio in thn nation. Cnntnrs Brnndan Morrison and KPvin llilton enter the evoning's ronltlsl in a tie for first place with 48 points. As if that Wllrt~n'l nnough, righ l wing Jason Botterhill leads lhn CCI lA with 23 goals. 
"Tiwy an~ an extmnwly tal­
tlnlnd tnam that takns advan­
tagn of any opportunities you 
givn thnm," said Poulin. "We 
know that we can't afford to 
have any mental breakdowns 
or nlse llwy'llmakn you pay." 
The Irish dnfnnse will have 
thnir hands full trying to con­
lain a Wolverine offense that 
avnrages just under six goals 
per gamn. Dnfensernen Garry 
(;ruhnr, Benoit Cotnoir. Brian 
MeCarthy, Ben NelSI)n, .Jeremy 
Con, and the rest of the unit hope to step up. 
"They are as good as anyone we've played this season," said Nelsen. "They pass the puck real well. and they have some big seorers. We know that we will have to play our best 60 minutes of hockey of the season to have any chance against them." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, Bowling Green is no slouch ei­ther. The 18-11-1 Falcons, who defeated the Irish 4-3 just 12 days ago, will visit South Bend having won their last six games against Notre Dame dat­ing back to November 1, 1994. 
In their previous encounter, the Falcons took advantage of several Irish miscues in the third period to overcome a 3-1 deficit. Center Mike Hall (20 goals and 16 assists) and right wing Curtis Fry (12 and 23) will attmnpt to duplicate their effort on Saturday. 
"It (Losing on Jan. 30 to 
Bowling Green) was frustrating 
because we know that we are 
every bit as talented as they 
are." said sophomore left wing 
Steve Noble. 
"We just ean't afford to fall in 
the pattern of making mistakes 
at the crdical times of the 
game." 

AftP.r tallying just four goals 
in a pair of games last week­
end, the Notre Dame offense 
will hope to break out of its 
slump against Falcon goal­
tender Bob Petrie. 
"Certain individuals will have 
to step up for us as we head 
into the final stretch of the sea­
son," said Poulin. "We eontrol 
our own destiny. All it takes is 
for us to start winning some 
ho<~key games." 
A tall order, indeed. 
II fENCING 
Freshmen on championship pace 
By WILLY BAUER 
Sports Wricer 
At the beginning of the sea­son, inexperience was one of the problems facing the Irish fencing. squad. However, the fab-five freshman fencers are no longer cause for concern and will lead the Irish to Durham, North Carolina this weekend. 
The standout of the class of 1999 is Sara Walsh. She lias a 46-0 record with the foil, in­cluding a victory over the de­fending national champion from Penn State. 
. She owns the only Irish undefeated record and is cur­rently in the race for an Olympic spot. If she tallies enough points in the next few meets. the Summer Games could be in her future. Walsh is also fighting for a spot in the NCAA's in March. 
Right behind Walsh with the 
foil is Myriah Brown. Her 
record of 41-5 places her right 
behind Walsh in wins for the 
Irish. 
Brown was barely beaten by 
the defending national cham­
pion from Penn State, five 
touches to four, at the 
Brandeis meet. 
"Myriah is a solid number 
two foilist, right behind Sara,'' 
said Coach Yves Auriol about 
his freshman. 
"Hopefully she will qualify 
for the NCAA's with Sara. She 
is one of the top juniors in the county." 
Another freshman foilist is Nicole Mustilli. 
She brings her ability to fence well with both women's weapons to the team. She has a 34-5 record with the foil and is 9-4 with the epee. Mustilli placed third at a juniors com­petition at Penn State with the epee last fall. 
·~It is very unusual to have your first three fencers on a team be freshman, because you have girls who have been fencing for four years," said Auriol. "Nicole wanted to fence epee because at the time we needed one. She changed her mind but if we need her to switch she can. She is a very good epeeist." 
For the men there are two 
stand outs. They are sabre­
man Luke LaValle and foilist 
Stephane Auriol. 
LaValle has emerged as one 
of the top sabres, complement­
ing senior All-American Bill 
Lester. 

LaValle stepped up at the 
meet in Boston when his team­
mates were struggling. He 
won 12 of his 14 matches last 
weekend. Lester won nine of 
his 15. LaValle spends most of 
his free time before practice 
sparring with assistant coach­
es getting ready for the Junior 
World Championships. lie and 
Brown are trying to accumu­
late enough points to partici­
pate in the championship meet 
in Louisville, Kentucky, 
February 16-19. 
Coach Auriol's son, Stephane, has come on as of late. At the home meet on January 27, be won 12 of 14 matches. Last weekend he was praised by coaches and teammates for stepping up and pulling out key wins against Hutgers and Brown 
while his  teammates  were  
struggling.  
"I  was  very  proud  of  

Stephane and how he stepped in and did a good job for us," said sophomore John Tejada. 
"Stephane is showing signs of progress," said Auriol of his son. "It looks like he'll be able to contribute this year for the foil team." 
The elder Auriol also said that coaching his son is not easy. 
"Sometimes when I am mak­ing decisions about. the travel­ing squad and substitutions. I have to ask assistant coaehes and captains. 
He knows that and he's training very hard and hope~ fully he'll get better for the rest of the season." 
The Irish head to Durham. North Carolina this weekend. Brandeis and North Carolina are the strongest men's teams in the meet. 
"It will be tougher for the men. than the women," said Auriol. "It should be easier than last weekend, for sure. Of course we don't take any­thing for granted." 

~OBSERV~~R 
is now accepting applications for the 
1996-97 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three page statement ofintent with a resume to Liz Foran by Monday, Feb. 12 at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicanrs should have news reponing, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sporrs reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the conrent of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's departmenr heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout ofadvertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager oversees a staff of night production designers and works closely with department staff on layout and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
OBSERVER MARKETING DIRECTOR Director will be responsible for generating new ideas and campaigns for advertisers. The marketing director will oversee one assistant and will work closely with Ad Design manager and account executives. Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and strong self­motivation. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's, The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and ta.xes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and order transaction duties. 
~ 
page 22 Friday, February 9, 1996
The Observer • SPORTS

r 
I 
I 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

Georgetown in way of Notre Dame momentum 
By TODD FITZPATRICK 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team already has proven its dominance in the friendly confines of the JACC. The Irish hope to establish the same winning mentality on the road tomorrow night when they face Georgetown. 
The Irish certainly have plen­ty of momentum heading into this weekend's match-up. 
They outshot, out-hustled, and generally outplayed Pittsburgh to win 90-51. The final margin of victory hardly illustrated the complete Irish domination. 
Beth Morgan played one of her best games of the season in only 21 minutes of action. She tallied 26 points and connected on a blistering 71 percent of her shots from the field. 

"It felt really good. I'd say that game and the Syracuse game were my best of the sea­son," commented Morgan. 
If No. 24 Notre Dame hopes to contend for the Big East Conference title, Morgan and her teammates must have simi­lar performances throughout February. 
Prior to last night's late game, Georgetown was 10-9 and posted a 5-6 conference record. 
Although the Hoyas hover around a .500 winning per­centage, they should not be underestimated on their home 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Beth Morgan knows that Georgetown won't be a pushover like Pitt. 
Red Storm 
continued from page 24 
ly. 
"We've had some excellent games. but you can't hang your hat on those, you have to come back and do it again. During a season there are some of those and there are some lesser lights. The game against Manhattan was a lesser light." 
The Irish reached their low point against the Jaspers on Tuesday in a disheartening 21­point loss, but the high point is not far back in the memory banks either. 
It came just over a week ago when Notre Dame added to Mahoney's frustration, knock­ing off the Red Storm in Madison Square Garden in con­vincing fashion. 
"We responded well defen­sively and ran the ball very well, which we need to do more of," said MacLeod of that first victory over St. John's. "We came out very focused." 
Such intensity. especially on the defensive end, will be even more critical when St. John's comes to the Joyce Center Sunday for a rematch at noon. 

As MacLeod knows, lapses will have to be eradicated if Notre Dame is to win twice against the Red Storm. 
"It's not easy (to beat a team twice in one year), but we did the big thing by beating them up there," he noted. "The im­portant thing is that we get our act together back here. Our defense has to trigger our run-
court. They will come at the Irish with more weapons than the Panthers displayed. 
"Georgetown is a very athletic team. They're very quick, and they will get up in your face and put pressure on you. I think they'll tighten it up a little more than Pitt," Morgan stated. 
Despite Georgetown's talent­ed athletes, they were no match for the Irish in their first meet­ing nearly three weeks ago. Notre Dame triumphed easily by a 92-61 score. 
Morgan and the Irish are careful not to be overconfident against any Big East opponent. 
"It's a whole new ballgame. They're going to make a lot of adjustments," said Morgan. 
Irish center Katryna Gaither will be a main concern for the Hoyas. 
She became the 12th player in Notre Dame women's bas­ketball history to reach the 1000-point mark against Providence on January 14. Gaither was awarded the game ball prior to the Irish victory over Pittsburgh. Gaither has dominated most opposing cen­ters this season to average over 20 points and 9 rebounds per game. 
Irish head coach Muffet McGraw wisely gave valuable playing time to everyone on the roster Wednesday night. The game experience could pay huge dividends in the near fu­ture as Notre Dame finishes its 
regular season and prepareS for the Big East tournament. 
ning game." 
Establishing an intimidating presence at home is also crucial for the Irish. who after two ex­tended road trips finally find themselves with a number of home dates on the calendar. 
Notre Dame plays five of its next six games at home and 


hopes to gain some momentum from the home crowds going into the conference tourna­ment. 

Friday & Saturday 8 PM-JAM
Beds, Booths & Euros Open 7 Days a Week $5.00 Cover Convenient Hours (except lor special events) Student Discounts 
Call Anytime 
272-7653. 683-7998 
UNIVERSITY COMMONS . BY U.P. MALL 
256-9656 
GRAPE & McKINLEY NEARK-MART 
VISA 
-
~ig)1,h-~Fi..~:~4~:. 
=-t"'' '·o··-. ..-T-­

RAGE EXPERIENCE 
Saturday Night 
February JO 


hiJay, february 9, 1996 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
FOUR FOOD GROUPS OF THE APO\.AI YPSF. YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
DILBERT 
WALL'( I I'VE DECIDED TO 
f'\0\JE. YOUR 
PROJECT DUE 
DATE UP A 
f'\ONTH. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "Idylls of the King" setting a Sticks 14lts chief port is Ciudad Bolivar 15 Roadside hazard 16 Labor Day event 18 MI. Hood site 19 Pilot's heading 20 Kind of shot 22Wellness provider: Abbr. 23 Suffix with tip 25 Newshawk 21 Sea 29 "A Bridge Too Far" co-star 30 Incongruous­ness 
31 Eroded 32 Pest control brand 36 Filmdom's Wertmuller 37 Certain farmhand 38 Old book's content 39 English author --Phillpotts 40 Under 
observation 41 Fashion capital 42 Hook 44 Rushlight 45 Emend, in a 
way 48 Quarter 49 First name of a 
Fighting Irish 
legend 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
!,-'s \Js£L!O!>S ~ [Y)liY\AjOP­
IITf\10 Auto~IOC,(I.I\PI\'1 Or 
Usne:ssf j,. ::i"e:INES ['lo
Gil\01 e>P.\11 ~TA Ytu." '? 
l,N\-IA... ? ltJI\0.·· 7 
j:2EAL PLI~tposE! 1,-l>oe:s lNt-1'1 lf.louLD 
f\lont•r'C,! NoTI-l•l'l~. 1 {\1'1 "\Ot-IE IN""" Tc. 0 f<.E.Ao T111'S .. :? 0 
0 0 

6 Muted colors 1 Beep a Bet middler? 9 Polygraph 
inventor John 10"--been 
thinking ..." 11 "S'Iong" 1~ Fairy-tale 
character 13 Cervantes title 17 More than 
sleepy 
position 
The Observer 

50 Subordinates 
52 Benefits org. 
55 Old Rolling 
Stones record label 
57 1948 Triple Crown winner 
59 Windup 
60 Petition 
61 (The) Stage 
62 Chalk deposit sites 
DOWN 
1 Temporary accommoda­tions 
2 Assister of the Trojans 3 Significant event 4Chemical ending 5 Millionaire producer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
/// I 
,"/ ..• G,ooD l..oi'-D 1Trn 'c Tt-~E. "Pr-~fECT Gl\l'll:HOAT£ 

HAPPY lliRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE:
foR S1uoEI'lT 

Employment affairs will show 
0,o~£j!.folniE.f'"\.. · 

steady improvement. Slowly but surely you are able In expand your
) 

sphere of innuence. A pay raise or ' ); 
promotion is a distinct possibility. Investigate an exciting business pro­posal without delay. Next fall will bring new job benefits, including enjoyable travel. Guard against giv­ing co-workers the impression that you are lording it over them. Coop­eration and consideration are the key to greater career success. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Mia Farrow, aulhor Alice Walker, country singer Travis Trill, golfer Jo Ann Prentice. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Adjusting to change is never easy, but you are able to take a new ven­ture in stride. Pay close allention 10 legal and partnership matters. Refuse to let a romantic relationship fall into a rut. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Someone thinks you are special and lets you know it. An invitation to a glittering affair will make your day. Greater financial security is vital to your peace of mind. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Trust your instincts. Your ability to foresee trends gives you the edge over competitors. Join a fun-loving group this evening and kick up your
SCOTT ADAMS 

heels. CANCER (June 21-July 22): 
• OF INTEREST 
Flip Side's Winter Defiance Dance Flip Side, the club that provides something other than the usual social scene, is sponsorting a Winter Defiance Dance on Saturday, February 10, from 10 p.m. -2 a.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. The cost is $1 for members and $2 for non-memebers. Wear shorts and forget the frigid South Bend weather! Contact John (ND) 4*1419 or Erin {SMC) 284-5507 if you have questions. 
Alcoholics Anonymous Open meetings every Monday at 8 p.m. in the CSC, 2nd floor. 
"Embracing the Current Crisis/Building for the Future!" at New wings of faith Church (The Sunday Place To Be). Located in the Historic 100 Center Complex, 100 N. Center street, Mishawaka, Indiana. Service times are Sundays 9:30 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Phone 219-271-8362 for more information. 
Tonight the movie "Get Shorty" is playing at the Cinema at the Snite at 7:30 and 9:45p.m. Tho cost is $2. 
•MENU 
26 Cancel, in a way 21 Stratagem 28 Nonproductive 31 Entries 33 Highly aloof 34 Unwritten 35 Gray-brown 
goose 37 Dress 

ornamentations 41 Sicilian wine 43 Three-time Tour 
de France champion 

44 "No, No, Nora" 51 Department of 
Notre Dame 
singer northern France 
North 
53 It's apres 

45 Jephunneh's Garden Quiche
apres-midison 

Stuffed Shells 
54 Farm dwellers 

46 Town on the Cajun Chicken Sandwich 
56 Profession of 

Penobscot 36-Across: 
47 Stuffed Abbr. carnival 58 Third word of prize, maybe "America" 
Saint Mary's 
Breaded Scallops Buffalo Chicken Wings 
Get answers to any three clues 
by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­
5656 (75¢ each minute). 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sep!. 22): Diplomacy will win you important support from your co-workers today. Getting a salary increase may not be as difficuli as you imagined. Confidential information could be revealed. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your intuition is uncanny now. You find the perfect solution to an irritating situation! Allend to ·real estate, insurance or credit mailers. Romance is highlighted late in the day. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Sharing your experiences wilh a sympathetic listener could lead lo a long-lasting alliance. Get everything in writing if you decide to go into business together. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): An influential person cracks the whip, setting a burdensome agenda. Pulling in overtime may be a neces­sity. If things get too difficuli, think about seeking employment else­where. A fun evening with friends revitalizes you. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Financial mailers deserve prompt attention today. You may be able to add 10 your income with a creative vemure that has shown real potential. Competition for a top spol is keen. Do your best! 
AQUARit.:S (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A relationship should be on finner ground now. You give serious con­sideration to entering into a penna­nent alliance. It is a nice thought. Your wit and charm make you a popular guest. Seek inexpensive entenainmenl tonight. 
PISCES <Feb. 19-March 20): Creative endeavors are favored. Showcasing your talents will make others aware of your true potential. Your rappon with mtluential people is an asset. Pursue a goal with zeal. You have what it lakes to succeed' 
South Cheese & Vegetable Pie Lasagna with Meat Sauce Italian-Blend Vegetables 

Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN  46556  
D Enclosed is $70 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $40 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City-----------State _______ Zip_______ 
...._ 
-· 1 
1 

SPORTS 

9, 1996 
~~ 
~~ 
_..(~ 
., 

_.I 
Men's Basketball 
vs. Sr. John's, February II, Noon 
Women's Basketball 
at Georgetown, February 10 
Hockey 

vs. Michigan, February 9, 7 p.m. 
Salvaging a season 
Irish look to 
make up for disappointing year with a win over Michigan 
By MIKE DAY 
.,.
Sports Writer 
• 

Hanging by a thread. 
With just seven games re­maining on the CCHA schedule, the Notre Dame hockey team desperately needs a victory this week­end to keep their flickering playoff hopes alive. 
However, as luck has gone this year for the Irish, they face a tall order. They will have to overcome sec­# 
ond place Michigan and The Observer/Rob Finch 
Notre Dame coach Dave Poulin has had a tough first year as coach. He could land the biggest win see HOCKEY I page 21 of his short coaching career with a win Friday. 
A catching connection: Backgrounds, rivalries link Dawson, Harper 
By TIM SHERMAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The talking is bound to start as soon as they arrive on campus for the first day of practice. If not soon­er. 
There is a veritable Family Feud surely brewing between new recruits Lewis Dawson and Deveron Harper. 
Notre Dame fans already know about Dawson's older brother Lake, a emerging star wide receiver for San Diego rival Kansas City Chiefs. However, they may not realize that Harper's brother, Dwayne has an impressive occupation as welL He plays for the San Diego Chargers. 

Photo courtesy of the Seattle Times Lewis Dawson will hope to follow in the excel­lent footsteps of his brother, Lake. 
In fact, he's a starting corner­back. 
That's right, the two elder siblings go head-to-head at least two Sundays a year. 
Now, their younger brothers will be teammates. 
And instead of playing on op­posites sides of the ball, they very well may be competing for the same position. 
But for the Irish, talented competitors at the wide re­ceiver spot will be a welcome change. 
"There's no real part of game that sticks out, but I'm a good all-around receiver," Harper said. "I have speed, I can catch the ball and I make big plays." 
Dawson, too, has shown tremendous talent. 
The 6-foot-1, 18 5 pound Dawson, who has reportedly run a sub-4.5 40 yard dash, posted impressive enough numbers in a break-through 
see RECRUITS I page 20 


• Women's basketball at Georgetown Tennis 
see page 22 
Men and Women at Rolex Indoor Championships, February 9-11 

• Freshmen fencers making strides see page 21Track 
at Indianapolis Invitational, February 10 
• Football team lands Raki Nelson see page 20 



