News Writer  By LORI ALLEN  
Saim Mary's News Editor  
Alcohol consumption at Notre Dame beeame one of the primary issues on the Campus Life Council's 1996-1997 Agenda after the council's first full meeting yesterday. Judicial Coordinator Ryan Melnerney started this discussion by asking the council to review possible rtJaetions of the student body to any possible changes in the school's alco­hol policy, including becoming a dry campus. Father Joseph Carey, rector of Dillon Hall, responded that it would  A number of floors are closed in Regina Hall this semester due to the decreased number in enrollment, coupled with the new exclusive senior housing in Annunciata Hall. The addition or.------. Annunciata Hall, the fourth floor of Holy Cross Hall designed specifically to meet the needs of seniors; provided the most popular option for seniors, leaving more spaces avail­ 
be bfltter to review students' attitudes  
to drinking instead of just how stu­dents would reaet to changes. Bill Kirk, Assistant Vice President for Hesidence Life, stressed to  CLC members listen intently at the first msuch issues as alcohol abuse, recreational  The Observer/Shannon Dunne eeting yesterday. The council discussed facilities available to students and renewed  mores in the other halls. Orr "There appears to be enough space because there are still open­ings in Annunciata Hall. I believe if we  
Mcinerney that the campus will not go dry, but added that, "There is no more important issue in Student Affairs than the issue of aleohol." Kirk emphatieally stated that the level of binge drinking and consump­tion at the University makes it the most serious issue on campus, bar none. "There is no more important issue in terms of lives we would save, and tlw benefits to students," said Kirk. "If the rest of society drank the way Notre Dame does, we'd be a Third World or Fourth World country."  talk on gay and lesbians at Notre Dame and Ava Preacher, Assistant Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, agreed that alcohol consumption is a prob­lem, and hoped the council would talk about the "alcohol culture" on cam­pus. She agreed with Carey in wanti­ng to examine why students behave in relation to alcohol, not in terms of how they would react to different poli­cies. Student Body President Seth Miller saw the issue in two ways: the need to keep alcnhol consumption on campus, and the need to uncover the social  Saint Mary's. problems alcoh.ol can create. He pro­posed the council create a committee on social life and alcohol during their next meeting. Other issues discussed on the new agenda included athletic resources for non-varsity athletes. Miller stated that his office was working to develop new options for students who have few places to exercise. Father Bill Seetch, rector of Flanner Hall, added that many students in see CLC/ page 4  could offer more singles, more seniors would chose to live in Annunciata, as opposed to off-campus," said Suzie Orr, Director of Residence Life and Housing. Seniors can chose whether or not they want to live in singles or doubles, or 'swing rooms' which can be either singles or dou­bles, according to a vote taken at a meeting to determine the preference. There are currently 1210 students residing on campus this fall, as opposed to 1275 last fall. "The numbers speak for themselves. There are a number of reasons for the 65 less students on campus this fall, but you see HOUSING/ page 4  



Tuesday, September 10, 1996 • Vol. XXX No. 12 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCIL 
Low enrollment 
CLC confronts alcohol abuse issue 
closes floors 
By BILL CONNOLLY 
• ELECTION '96


College Park slams 
Candidates ignore coDlDlon good
the door on parties 
By ALEX ORR lowed by a description of what may benefit. 
News Writer the current presidential cam­"There are two types of rep­By LIZ FORAN paign can promise for a com­resentatives in Congress: the
Editor-in-Chief • See series on alcohol 
A seemingly obvious tenet of mon good. delegate, who represents the policy beginning democracy is that nationally Professor Arnold, the Director opinions of the district, and theSOUTH HEND elected officials should use the of the Hesburgh Program in trustee, the person chosen
As of Sept. 1, residents of Wednesday 
concept of the common good to Public Service, focused many of committed to the eommon good,
College Park Condominiums 
"It's in the lease," she said form policy. However, this is his remarks on the legislative but who decides issues onhave been warned. Any parties cheerfully yesterday morning, not a partieularly widely held branch of government. He broader, longer terms," accord­on the prtmtises will be broken referring to. a clause prohibiting belief among our nation's politi­remarked that, "A bunch of ing to Arnold. 
up by poliee and the residents sueh parties at the all student cians, according to Peri Arnold wh.at goes on in the country Rather than simply servicing will b1~ immndiately evieted. 
eomplex. and John Roos, members of the depends on congressional the eonstituency and base,"ALL of thn residents of the "Tenant shall not make or University's Department of action, regardless of the presi­Congressional members shouldunit responsible for the party permit any use of the premises Government. dent. We tend to view these strive in a larger, more holistic
will bn imnu~diately evicted with 
which directly or indirectly, is In their lecture entitled "The congressional representatives view of the nation. Arnold said, no exceptions," read a warning forbidden by law, ordinance or 1996 Elections and the Common as somehow 'ours.' They do "Legislature can be responsive,datml Sept. 4. 
governmental regulation, or any Good," the two discussed the what we want them to do." or it can be responsible." ByThis warning, posted over the other act which is dangerous to modern, post-war political cli­The diverse political and being responsible rather thanWfH~kend by College Park man­life, limb or property, which will mate and such views of elected social backgrounds of members responsive, Congressional lead­agmnent, eame after welcome or may tend to injure the repu­representations as have deviat­of Congress may lead to diffi­ers could attempt to incorporatehaek parties got a little out of tation of the premises or the ed from the achievement of a culty in creating laws and poli­the demands of their own votinghand, aeeording to eomplex see­common good. This was fol-cies from which all Americans n~tary Krista Kracher. 
see PARTY/ page 8 see ELECTION/ page 4 
While ND expects more, SMC elated with top spot 
Students: USN& WR ranking too low 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST News Editor 
Notre Dame's 17th-plaee rank in the lattlst U.S. News & World Heport listing of America's Best Colleges may satisfy those who think the University belongs in the top 25. 
But others think the sehool deserves better. 
The listings, published in the Sept. 16 issue that hit the newsstands yesterday, surveyed college presidents. deans and admission direetors at 1 ,422 sehools and compiled statistical data provided by those institutions. 
After the statistics were collected, the 
see ND RANK/ page 8 

BEST NATIONAL REGIONAL LIBERAL UNIVERSITIES ARTS COLLEGES 
1. 
Yale University (CT) 1. St. Mary's College (IN) 

2. 
Princeton University (NJ) 2. Hillsdale College (MI) 

3. 
Harvard University (MA) 3. St. Norbert College (WI) 

4. 
Duke University (NC) 4. Prine,ipia College (IL) 

5. 
Massachusetts lnst. of Technology 5. Otterbein (OH) 

6. 
Stanford University (CA) 

7. 
Dartmouth College (NH) 

8. 
Brown University (AI) . 

9. 
California Institute of Technology 

10. 
Northwestern University (IL) 


17. University of Notre Dame (IN) 

Honor continues trend for College 
By MAUREEN HURLEY Associate News Editor 
As the U.S. News & World Report's America's Best Colleges issue hit the newsstands yesterday, Saint Mary's women finally saw the coveted number in print. 
Number one. 
For the third consecutive year, Saint Mary's College was ranked the top lib­eral arts school in the Midwest, based on the national magazine's 10th annu­al survey. 
This year's ranking made Saint Mary's one of only two schools in any regional category to claim the number 
see SMC RANK/ page 8 


page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 10, 1996 
• INSmE COLUMN 


Creating the common ground 
Thursday before one of -:=~~~~~~ my classes, debate broke out. The debate focused on the belief of one of my classmates that students on this campus are more likely to accept adminis­trative dictates because we are Catholic. Although I disagreed with this proposition, the statement which most intrigued me during this conversation related to the Women's Resource Center. 
A woman from the WRC told me that many women on this campus refuse to associate with the center because they believe it to be politically allied with Pro-Choice doctrines. This woman went on to say that some of the women who avoid the WRC seem to be allow­

• WORLD AT A GlANCE 
Hortense gains speed, threatens Puerto Rico 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico at their home on St. Croix, which has Hortense, after revving up to hurri-Hurricane Hortense been battered by three hurricanes in cane speed, stalled off the U.S. Virgin Conditions as of Monday. 2 p.m. EDT the past year. "The dogs don't like it at all," he said, 
Islands today and threatened Puerto [~!j!~~~~i~tmj~~~U
Rico, prompting some Caribbean resi-to whimpers from three dogs huddled dents to board up their homes and seek nearby. "I just wish it would get out of shelter for their boats. our neighborhood soon." 
The National Weather Service issued Hortense, the eighth tropical storm of a hurricane warning for Puerto Rico, the Atlantic season, comes on the heels warning islanders to expect dangerous­of Hurricane Fran, which skirted the ly high winds and seas within 24 hours. Caribbean before slamming into the The Dominican Republic issued a hurri­U.S. East Coast late last week, killing cane watch, particularly for its south more than two dozen people. coast. This latest storm started packing sus­
Hundreds of tourist yachts, sailboats, tained winds near 80 mph early today, house boats and government vessels well over the 7 4 mph speed necessary moved into shelter, crowding mangrove for a tropical storm to qualify as a hur­swamps in bays of southwestern Puerto ricane. Rico. The storm radiated hurricane-force 
"I've been boarded up in my house winds 60 miles from its center, with since yesterday," retired tour guide tropical-force winds stretching another Sweeney Toussaint said in St. Croix..·. 175 miles. "It's a long wait." Hortense had stalled uso..<.u-rc-e:...::Ac-cu...::-Weather Inc. AP/Carl Fox Hortense drifted northwest this morn­100 miles south of the U.S. Virgin Island ing at 6 mph, moving on a track that at 8 a.m. EDT, according to the National San Juan's National Weather Service Hurricane Center near Miami. predicted would bring the storm closer to Puerto Rico 
Biologist Bill Gladfelter and his family played Scrabble than previously expected. 
Gingrich blames biased pollsters Spaniards fear new "War of the Worlds" 
MADRID, Spain 

Newt Gingrich is blaming pollsters' 
Hundreds of panicked Spaniards flooded television questions for the lackluster voter and radio switchboards with calls this weekend when a response to Bob Dole's tax cut promis­newscaster broke in with a report showing space aliens es. "People who are called by pollsters hovering over New York City. The purported news or reporters who say, 'Would you flashes that appeared Saturday and Sunday on the rather patriotically .balance the budget Telecinco network were in fact advertisements for the or greedily take a tax cut?' they will film "Independence Day," which opens in Spain on routinely say, 'Well, gee, I guess I'm Friday. The PubliEspana advertising firm figured view­really a patriot,"' House Speaker ers wouldn't be taken in by the TV takeoff of H.G. Gingrich told reporters Monday. But pollsters for ABC Wells' "War of the Worlds" -the 1942 radio stunt and CBS, which released polls last week showing skepti­that created a short but memorable panic in the United cism for the GOP presidential nominee's 15 percent States. "We wanted to do something different, cause income tax cut plan, said Gingrich's sample query is some excitement, but our intent certainly was not to laughable. "What a wonderful question," CBS survey cause this widespread fear," an advertising executive, director Kathleen Frankovic scoffed. "No one would ask Jose Luis Andarias, said Monday. But plenty of that." Pollsters steer clear of words such as "patriotical­Spaniards believed the film's scenes of a White House ly" and "greedily" because "You might introduce some press conference about the invasion, and an announcer bias there," said Gary Langer, ABC's polling analyst. breaking away to shots of New Yorkers fleeing in the "We simply try to ask straight, neutral and fair ques­streets. A text warning on the bottom of the TV screen tions," Langer said. The CBS-New York Times poll found said "advertisement," but "apparently people can't that nearly two-thirds of voters don't think Dole would watch footage, listen and read at the same time," cut taxes 15 percent as promised if elected. Andarias said. 
Lincoln pocket lint on display Station fined for Clinton imitation 
WASHINGTON SAN FRANCISCO 
From the contents of Lincoln' pockets the night he was A $1.5 million penalty for a radio station's stunt that shot to a report from Columbus to Queen Isabella in snarled traffic on the San Francisco-Oakland Bay 1493, the Library of Congress will display its treasures in Bridge could mean three days of toll-free driving for celebration of the 100th anniversary of its main building motorists, a lawyer said Monday. KSOL parked a van next year. Though the library collects mostly manu­across westbound lanes of the bridge while an employee scripts, books, photos and recordings -more than any got a haircut in the May 1993 stunt. The idea was to library in the world", it says -it has also come into pos­lampoon President Clinton's supposed tieup of Los session of other materials. From the pockets of the Angeles airport traffic a week earlier when he got a assassinated Lincoln, for example, the slain president's haircut aboard Air Force One. The haircut took only a family donated two pairs of glasses, a five-dollar bill few minutes, but KSOL managed to tangle traffic for issued by the just-defeated Confederate States of America most of the morning commute. Disc jockey Erich and nine newspaper clippings -all of them with favor­"Mancow" Muller later pleaded no contest to creating a able comments Another 1865 item set to go on display is public nuisance and was fined $500 and ordered to per­an early baseball card, a group photo of the Brooklyn form 100 hours of community service. About a third of Atlantics, the "Champion Nine," mounted on a small the proposed settlement of the lawsuit by Bay Bridge piece if pasteboard and distributed to its opponents. The drivers, tentatively approved by a judge on Friday, new permanent exhibit will house an array of artifacts, would subsidize three toll-free days in May, said attor­ing themselves to be Catholics or Pro-Life first and women second. 
That same afternoon, I attended the Gender Studies Faculty Forum entitled "Life/Choice: Rethinking Feminist Conversations on Abortion." The conversation effectively dis­cussed issues of the abortion debate which are often overlooked, including the ability of groups such as Common Ground to overcome their difference in that singular debate and make profitable advancement in other issues. Both Pro-Lifers and Pro-Choicers attended the meeting; both came to the table. The room was filled primarily with Pro-Choice support­ers, but that had little impact on the swing of the discussion. 
When applied to campus life, the forum was meant to show something that should be pro­foundly obvious. Women here on campus need to learn to neglect their impressions of political polarity on some issues and unite to bring about their common goals. Organizations on campus can offer some of these solutions if they are properly utilized. 
Both the Women's Resource Center and the Gender Studies concentration were created, among other reasons, to provide the entire campus with more opportunities to explore gender issues and to create more healthy relations on campus. Although the WRC was created specifically for women, its facilities are open to both sexes indiscriminately. Gender Studies classes often highlight "female issues", but those classes are only meant to promote greater understanding. The Women's Resource Center and the Gender Studies concentration are not intended solely for radical feminists. 
Somehow the years have turned "feminist" into a dirty word. Somewhere along the line, the world has turned "feminism" from a movement of women and men seeking equali­ty into a horde of ravenous man-haters who · seek to install in the world a new matriarchy. The connotation has forced women to reject the title rather than be rejected themselves by society. However, the word is now being reclaimed. Women all across the political and ethnic spectrums can be proud to call themselves feminists. 
As students on a campus that has only been coed for 25 years, we need to take advantage of the resources that are provided to us so that they are not taken away. The budgets of the WRC and the Gender Studies programs cripple their aspirations. Only by supporting them and other campus organizations like them can we hope to create a more gender equal campus. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Production Kelly Brooks Ma~thew Casey Maureen Hurley Jackie Moser Sports Brian Reimhaler Lab Tech Graphics Katie Kroener 
Peter Cilella: 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
changing periodically, beginning next May 1. 


5 Day South Bend Forcast 
AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high tern eratures 
i 
\ 

Wednesday'~
~ 

Thursdf._...Y
' 

Friday:; 
' 

sa~na¥ 
t}'/\._ -~-­


~,~,~~~~ (f ~ 4 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurrlss Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy VIa Assodalod Pross Grap/llcsNBI 
ney James K. Roberts. 


The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Sept. 10. 
Unes separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
...&...&..
.......-.-....-AT­
COLD WARM STAnONARY 

H p_,. L B &'SJ rnJ 0 . ~ § 1) u HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-S10RMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE CLOUOY 
V.IIAaoci.tteo'PTNil 


Tuesday, September I 0, 1996 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
.• RHAAND SAB 
Soaking up the sunshine ... 


Hall councils to create mission statements 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's Hesidence Hall Association (HHA) held their first meeting of the new school year on Monday night to dis­cuss the various goals and plans for the upcoming year. 
The small meeting room in Haggar College Center was packed with 75 women inter­ested in participating on the council this year. The large turnout was a record for RHA. 
Dr. Linda Timm, Vice President of student affairs, was pleased and excited about the standing room only crowd. 
The executive board and individual hall councils formal­ly introduced themselves. Each of the councils represent­ing LeMans, Holy Cross, McCandless, and Regina expressed both excitement and their focus on unity and fun. 
HilA President Nikki Milos then went over the goals and objectives of the year. She proposed that the new hall councils create mission state­ments to help them maintain foeus throughout the year. 
Milos announced the creation of a new chairwoman position. The Community Relations com­mittee chair will see that the nends of the community are Stlrved to the best of the abili­ties of the HHA. 
Saint Mary's Residence Hall Association underwent a rough transition last year when the entire executive board 
resigned before the end of first 
semester. 
Sighting personal conflicts with superiors and a general lack of power as an executive board member, the four women withdrew from the association. 
The RHA does not anticipate 
similar circumstances in the 
upcoming year. 
Dr. Timm continues to urge anyone interested in being involved with RIIA to attend the Wednesday 6:30 p.m. meetings in Haggar College Center. 
The Saint Mary's Student Activities Board (SAB) also met yesterday evening in Haggar College Center. 
Although students have only been back on campus for two weeks, SAB is already in full force, with Monday evening's visiting lecturer Ellen Gootblatt and Friday's upcoming Twilight Tailgate. 
SAB President Lori McKeough reviewed the many more upcoming events for the month of September. The board will be sponsoring come­dians, hypnotists, football morning breakfasts, guest lec­turers, and game show take­offs in weeks to come. 
SAB is in the process of recruiting new volunteers for a variety of committees. McKeough cited the involve­ment of more students as a personal goal for the new year in student government. 

By SARAH CORKREAN 
News Writer 
For the fifth year in a row, Ellen Gootblatt, former talk radio show host, author and educator, brought her show to a packed auditorium at Saint Mary's Monday night. 
Focusing on "meeting, dat­ing, relating and mating," the self-proclaimed Jewish born Brooklyn "maniac," had the crowd's undivided attention. Her humorous stories about the do's and don'ts concerning relationships stole the show. 

Involving the audience of predominantly females, and a few "brave males" as Gootblatt described, students wrote down questions to which they wanted Gootblatt's answers and opinions. 
Gootblatt started the presen­tation with her "Ten Commandments of a healthy relationship." The thrust of her message was that if "you don't feel like an enhanced, fulfilled person in the relationship," then get out. Adding personal stories of past relationships to accompany her list, the crowd roared identifying with her experiences. 
"Look for a trustmate, not someone you find that you have to defend yourself to," added Gootblatt. 
Gootblatt's recurring theme for the humorous, but serious lecture was to use "good old basic sense." 
She believes relationships are meant to be easy, but what makes them difficult are indi­viduals who open up early in the relationship without feeling totally confident about them­selves. 
WVFI Welcomes all New and Returning Announcers 
ANNOUNCERS 

Katie Alexander Steve Barr Jim Boyle Robert Calleros Colleen Carey Kai Chu David Condon Dan Connolly 
J. Patrick Coolican Dusty DeGrande Meghan DeN iro Mary Devona Brent DiCrescenzo Kate Dougherty Isaac Duncan J enessa Fitzgerald Kelli Flannigan Rita Flynn 
Boo Gallagher Ron Garcia Rebecca Gerben Kevin Glynn Elizabeth Guidi Jen Gurley Erivca Haavig Paul Herbert Mark Higgins Dallas Howard John Huston Missy Hyman Matt Hynes Patrick Jehle Wendy Klare Chris Kramer Jodie Krantz Anthony Limjuico Jessica Maloney Steve Marr Holly Masterson Doug McEachern Erin McMurrough Jim McNamee Franzes Nahas Curtis N orvett Chris Osos Chris Owen J eni Paulson MaKa Pilcher Tyler Polacek Jen Porst Glen Pietrzyk Regina Rathnau 
SUBSTITUTE ANNOUNCERS  
Nick Allen  Michail Early  Jackie Lievense  
Matt Anderson  John Forgash  Matt MacBiogh King  
Jim Breuckman  John Gavula  Jon Morgan  
Brian Christ  Milton Jones  Julie Poulos  
Jed D'Ercole  Claire Kittle  Eric Robben  
Tim Donohue  Roger Leech  Mike Silva  

Rebecca Reyda 
Mark Rosenberg 
Steve Sabo 
John Scherpereel Lisa Schweizer Matt Shearer Schoen Smith 
Robert Stanton 
Jocelyn Szczepaniak,Gillece Chad Vivar Devon Walsh 
Jeremy Welsh Dan Wolters Andy Yang 
We're looking forward to working with 
Nate Sniadecki Miguel Tapia you! John Tejada 
·WVFI Staff
Ben Voight Joe Weiler 

Selection Committee 
-~~---~----~­
page4 Tuesday, September 10, 1996 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

CLC 
continued from page 1 
South Quad do not even have facilities comparable to Stepan fields near their dorms. 
Kirk related the administra­tion's plan to add such fields and basketball courts to South Quad within the next two years. 
Other issues the CLC will discuss this year include: added diversity, transporta­tion issues (like the proposed off-campus shuttle), gender relations, parking availability, larger 24-hour space for stu­dents to gather in, financial aid, dorm life issues (like the ResNet and laundry options), race relations, study space, facility changes, and giving off-campus students a greater say in the University. 
The CLC also continued its now two-year old discussion of serving the needs of gay and lesbian students at Notre Dame. 
Kirk announced that Patricia O'Hara, Vice President of Student Affairs, expects to name the faculty representatives of the gay and lesbian group inside of the Office of Student Affairs by the end of this week. Furthermore, she will supply the names of the members of the standing committee on gays and lesbian needs by the week of Sept. 16. 
Student Senator Shane Bigelow asked why O'Hara 
had denied the group's right to choose its own advisers. Kirk replied that the two years of debate culminating in O'Hara's letter proposing this group explained her reasons in detail. 
Miller stressed the need to let this new group grow on its own. 
He emphasized that debate had occurred without any such group for two years, and the group now needed time just to "work." 
Bigelow said, "As leaders, we should lead. We shouldn't let the victims be the only ones looking for reform." He likened such cases to Martin Luther King's leading of the civil rights struggle in the 1960's without much help from America's leaders. 
Although Bigelow argued it would be harmless just to review the groups' develop­ment at mid-semester, Kirk argued that a review could present problems. 
He stressed that last year there was no group made to recognize the needs of gays and lesbians, and that this year there was such a group. 
Thus, Student Senator Mark Leen moved to table the issue until the first CLC meeting next semester. 
A vote was taken on the motion, but was defeated by a count of 10 to 8. 
Thus, Miller proposed to again discuss the issue at the next CLC meeting, leaving the option of proposals by CLC members on the issue at the next meeting. 
Vendor Fair 
Tuesday, September 10™ 
6-8 PM 
LaFortune Student Center Ballroom 
Come meet approved University vendors who can show you the latest imprinted products. 
Meet vendors who have products you can sell at your football concession stand. 
Meet vendors who can help you with your fundraising events 

Door Prizes 

ANGERS, FRANCE 
1997-98 Academic Year "Top Ten Reasons ·Why You Should Not Go to Angers" With Professor Paul McDowell 
Tuesday, September 10, 1996 7:30pm Room 115 O'Shaughnessy 

Election 
continued from page 1 

base into more universally ben­eficial plans. 
This year's presidential and congressional elections are not likely to bring out any sort of discussion on such nationally minded topics. Arnold's view is that after the past congression­al election and the overly ambi­tious plans of Newt Gingrich and the Republicans, people are scared away from the broad, national congressional elections like the one they saw in 1994. 
"The electorate is happy with keeping things the way they are. Happy with divided government and stasis," Arnold declared. Elections, at least for the near future, will be limited to the local concerns of voting districts. That is unfortunate in this election year, for there are, according to the professor, "a whole bunch of items that are not going to be discussed in the campaigns." 
Roos built off this idea. "There have been no references to issues of race, no references to poverty, no references to inequities of education," he explained. The campaign has become what he calls "a com­petition of the small and triv­ial," where the common good is all but forgotten by the news media and the candidates. 
"Democratic theory would dictate the choice we make in elections will relate to how we govern ourselves," said Roos. 
But the caliber of the candi­dates as leaders of the United States as an entire nation is very poor. 
Both Bill Clinton and Bob Dole suffer from political inex­perience in working outside of immediate political concerns. Clinton's duties as the governor Arkansas were further removed from the presidential experience than any governor in America. 
"And Bob Dole's sense of pub­lic constituency is Russel, Kansas," pointed out Roos. He feels that any advantage to understanding the necessities of national well-being belongs to Clinton, who has at least had two years "to make mistakes." 
"Both candidates offer us the chance of perceiving their con­ception of the good," said Roos. "Both offer some view of a nor­mative future." The problem he finds is that both visions are of a "bourgeois future." 
"There is no place for those who fail, for the weak, or the poor. Very little attention in either candidate's narratives is paid to the least well off amongst us," Roos stated. The reason, he said, is straightfor­ward. 
"Why aren't the poor being figured into this election? The poor don't vote." Until the common good of everyone is given equal consideration in electoral politics, Roos feels that democracy will not func­tion as effectively as possible. 
This is a first in a series of weekly lectures on Mondays from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m., focusing on the 1996 election. 
Hou.sing 
continued from page 1 
can not really pinpoint one spe­cific," said Katherine Rosswurm, Housing Coordinator. "There is still a high percentage of students residing on campus regard­less," she added. 
There are 50 open spaces left available right now from stu­dents who either went abroad, took a leave of absence, or withdrew from the college. While there are no spaces specifically reserved for abroad students, who are not allowed to go through the room selec­tion process, Residence Life and Housing works to give the students their building or room choice. 
The freshman class was smaller this fall, and based on their request for housing, spaces were filled in the other halls, therefore leaving more openings in Regina Hall. 
"We are down forty students this year. From the beginning we knew that the size of our perspective freshman class was depressed, and we knew that it would be a challenge. While we are not pleased with the quantity, we are extremely pleased with the quality of the freshman class," said Mary Pat Nolan, Director of Admissions. "Nearly seventeen percent of the freshman class are Presidential Merit Scholars and seem to be well satisfied. They are a dynamic class," she added. 


L----------------------~

• Appointments necessa-ry-fortaniiing~rei"axers, perms, and styles • 
(219) 271-7674 


Spanish Mass Schedule 

September 8 September 15 
September 22 September 29 
(lMPUS
MINISW 

Stanford-Keenan Hall Padre David Scheidler, esc 
Keough Hall Padre Patrick Neary, esc Our Lady of Guadalupe Chapel 
Stanford-Keenan Hall All Class Liturgy-No Spanish Mass 
Stanford-Keenan Padre Bob Pelton, esc 

~------­
Tuesday, September 10, 1996 The Observer • NEWS pageS 
'Bulletproof' number one on slow weekend 
· through the department. "This The Class of 2000 will decide
• SMC BRIEFS 

is a good chance for people to on the president/vice president The Art Department will be 
learn what the Art Department ticket and the slots for board housing an open house tonight has to offer, and to learn more members this month. Tonight
a:t 6 p.m. in the Moreau Center about the many creative and tomorrow \light, informa­for the Arts to introduce any 

career opportunities avail· tional meetings will take place. and all interested students to able," said junior art major I.iz Platforms will due by 5 p.m. on 
the professors in the depart· Edwards. 
Sept 19. Campaigning will 
ment. The open house intends 

••• begin at noon Sept. 20, with to provide students interested Saint Mary's Election ele<ltlons taking place during
in majoring or minoring in art Commissioner Emily Miller · meals on Sept 24. If necessary. 

with a variety of different 

announced the schedule for a run-off vote will take placeoptions that are available the Freshman Class Elections. on Sept 28. 
$52.6 million, studio figures showed Monday. That's a 1 percent increase from the same time last year. 
Two other movies, one dfllw ling in theaters and the other expanding into many theaters, also did little to lure moviegoers. 
The Whoopi Goldberg­Gerard Depardieu movie "Bogus" earned $1.9 million in its debut, placing 11th. "The Spitfire Grill" was released in more than 1,000 theaters but managed only a fifth plaee finish with $3.4 mil­lion. 
The romantic comedy "Tin Cup" was the No. 2 movie with 
Welcome back Special! 
Laptop includes: INTEL Pentium, 6X Speed CD, Floppy Disk, Hard 
NO Device swapping necessary! 
**PRICES INCLUDE ( 1) YEAR ON-SITE WARRANTY** 
TG-8200 Pentium System with 6X CD-ROM and Built-in TV Port 
Includes: Intel Pentium 75!100/120/l33/150mhz CPU, 8MB RAM (opt. 16/24/40MB), 256KB cache, Opti Viper chip set, 11.3" Passive/Active display, (I) serial, (1) parallel, SVGA (800x640) 2MB video RAM, Infrared, game/midi port, TV port, Floppy Disk Drive, 6X CD-ROM, 16bit sound, carrying case, 
AC/DC Charger and NiHM battery. 
"ACADEMIC DISCOUNTED" PRICING (811/96) * Hard Disk 
DESCRIPTION 
TG-8207C (Pentium 75mhz) Passive TG-8210C (Pentium lOOmhz) Passive TG-8212C (Pentium 120mhz) Passive TG-8213C (Pentium 133mhz) Passive TG-8215C (Pentium 150mhz) Passive TG-8207T (Pentium 75mhz) Active TG-8210T (Pentium lOOmhz) Active TG-8212T (Pentium 120mhz) Active TG-8213T (Pentium l33mhz) Active TG-8215T (Pentium 150mhz) Active 
*Prices subject to change without notice. 
Friday through Monday, fol­lowed by studio, gross, number of theater locations, receipts per location, total gross and number of weeks in release, as compiled by Entertainment Data Inc. and Exhibitor Relations Co. Inc.: 
1. 
"Bulletproof," Universal, $6 million, 2,240 locations, $2,685 per location, $6 mil­lion, one week. 

2. 
"Tin Cup," Warner Bros., $4.7 million, 2,058 locations, $2,267 per location, $42 mil­lion, four weeks. 

3. 
"First Kid," Disney, $4.4 million, 1,878 locations, $2,317 per location, $13.7 mil­lion, two weeks. 


810MB  1.0GB  1.35GB  
ll.J"SVGA  $2,250  $2,305  $2,521  $2,722  
ll.J"SVGA  $2,315  $2,371  $2,586  $2,787  
ll.J"SVGA  $2,376  $2,432  $2,645  $2,848  
lt.J"SVGA  $2,467  $2,523  $2,738  $2,940  
ll.J"SVGA  $2,585  $2,640  $2,855  $3,057  
ll.J"SVGA  $2,736  $2,791  $3,006  $3,208  
ll.J"SVGA  $2,801  $2,857  $3,072  $3,273  
ll.J"SVGA  $2,862  $2,917  $3,133  $3,332  
ll.J"SVGA  $2,953  $3,010  $3,225  $3,426  
ll.J"SVGA  $3,071  $3,126  $3,341  $3,542  

Special to The Observer 
Andrew Lauresen, a Ph.D. candidate in the department of biological sciences at Notre Dame, is the recipient of the annual predoctoral fellowship endowed by Bayer Corp. and administered by the University's Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control. 
The Geneva, N.Y., native is conducting research with Richard Carlton, assistant pro­fessor of biological sciences, on the effect of atrazine on stream nitrogen cycle processes, which is the effect of herbicides applied to soil on streams in the area. 
THOGON RlOO 

The Center for Bioengineering and Pollution Control was estab­lished in 1987 to coordinate engineering and science faculty research activities designed to create new solutions to national and international pollution con­trol problems. 
Notre Dame has received a grant of $2.45 million from the Pew Charitable Trusts to fund the Pew Evangelical Scholars Program for another three years. 
"We are grateful to the Pew Charitable Trusts and honored by the recognition their most recent grant underlines," said Notre Dame's president, Father Edward Malloy. 
"Since 1990, the Pew Evangelical Scholars Program has helped generate and sustain the sort of research this University was founded to pur­sue, a research which integrates Christian faith with intellectual acumen," Malloy added. 
Established at Notre Dame in 1990 with a $1.88 million grant from The Trusts, the Pew Evangelical Scholars Program is designed to support scholarship 

TRINITY IRISH DRNCE COMPANY 
DAMHSA 
ACeltic Od usseu 
It's ever~ thing ~ou·d expect -and like nothing ~ou·d imagine... 

Saturdau. September"21 .. BP.M. -o·~aughlin Auditorium 
Tickets: $5 (Students), $16 (Adults) on sole otthe Suint Mory's Box Office, O'Loughlin Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 9om. 
5pm, Mondoy. Fridoy. M o~u Viso, Moster(ord, ond Discover orders C'/C "/CD accepted by phone ot219/284-4626 cj 'discoun~ lor senior cinzens ond groups O'Laughlin Auditorium 
that analyzes important intellec­tual questions in the humanities and social sciences using Christian perspectives. 
The program sponsors an annual national fellowship com­petition in which 16 grants of $35,000 are awarded to support the research and writing of out­standing Christian scholars for a full academic year. 
Since the program began, 73 fellowships have been awarded to scholars from Notre Dame, Yale, Harvard and Duke Universities, and the Universities of Illinois, Wisconsin, and Indiana. 
Pew scholars have investigat­ed such topics as the role of women in American fundamen­talism, the impact of missionary activity on both indigenous African cultures and upon anthropological methodology, the influence of moral values on the writing of post-Communist constitutions in Eastern Europe, and the nature of forgiveness in Christian theology. 
The Pew Charitable Trusts, a national philanthropy, support non-profit activities in numerous cultural areas. 
"Brost" Ha~~y 2111 Birthday
Diane 
Now you can hang with the big kids 
Love, All of us 

By JEFF WILSON 
Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 

The comedy "Bulletproof" couldn't do much to boost a traditionally sluggish post­Labor Day weekend at the box office. 
$4.7 million, followed by "First Kid" ($4.4 million) and "A Time to Kill" ($3.8 million). 
There was also a milestone for the Arnold Schwarzenegger movie "Eraser," which went over the $100 million mark after four months. After 10 weeks in release, the John 

Trogon is a 9002 Certified manufacturer -references available. To purchase -To arrange a demonstration -To discuss the wide variety ofoptions ­
c 

"'~ &ud O«'t ~~P~­~«4 to a 6ftieHd­
&1'1'1!!1! 1100 

-CALL-
Computer Aided Tools & Service 
P.O. Box20212 indianapolis, Indiana 46220 office 317-251-1115 fax 317-255-3561 E 'Mail-cats@indy.net 
We accept Corporate Purchase Orders Visa, MasterCard and Corporate Purchase Cards 
The film, starring Damon Travolta film "Phenomenon" 
Research wins fellowship for Laurensen; 
Wayans and Adam Sandler, was just days away from hit­debuted in first place over the ting $100 million. weekllnd, earning $6 million The top three movies at 
Pew money to fund scholars program
and bringing total receipts to North American theaters 

r--~---~---~---~-~--~-­
Tuesday, September 10, 1996

page 6 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
~ather ~[[o! and 
~~ CDr. ~than CHatch 
invite a[[ studentsi facu[t! and their fami[ies to the C{)otive ~ss of the Cflo[! Spirit 
SEPTEMBER 22, 4:00PM AT THE JOYCE CENTER WITH DINNER TO FOLLOW 
Students andfacu[t~ wi[[ &e seated toaetfter ~ acad · artment at the 


--~---o~• ·'"'·-·""··· •··· ································-····· ­
~ 
Tuesday, September 10, 1996 The Observer • MIDDLE EAST page 7 
Netanyahu threatens breakdown 
By BARRY SCHWEID 
As.'<ociated Pres.~ Writer 
WASHINGTON 

Tough-mlndfld Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is telling the Clinton adminis­tration the Mideast peace process could fall apart if Israeli troops are withdrawn from the volatile West Bank town of Hebron without solid security guarantees. 
Deflecting a U.S. call for a prompt redeployment, restricting the troops to guarding some 400 Jewish settltHS, Netanyahu said he told Secretary of State Warren Christopher today that "improving the security in Hebron is not only an Israeli interest but it is a Palestinian interest." 
"I don't feel any pressure, and I don't think there will be any pressure," Netanyahu told Israeli reporters before a meeting with President Clinton at the White House. 
Israeli troops were required to pull back from Arab popu­lation centers in Hebron by last March under an agrt)e­ment reached with the Palestinians. 
Clinton stops short of direct assistance 
Vows to help anyone who wishes to leave 
By JIM ABRAMS 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton said today the United States is doing all it can "to help anybody that needs to be out of Iraq," but declined to offer direct assis­tance to stranded U.S.-backed opponents of Saddam Hussein. 
Clinton would not comment on reports that about 200 Iraqis who belong to the U.S.­financed Iraqi National Congress are holed up at a mountain resort, fearful that the United States has aban­doned them since Saddam's forces captured the city of Irbil eight days ago. 
"I think it would be better for me not to comment now," Clinton said. "We're doing everything we think we can to help anybody that needs to be out of Iraq." 
He appealed to fighting Kurdish forces to avoid "any cavalier killing of civilians and others who are not combatants in this," and said U.S. assis­tance would be pointless if Kurdish leaders continue to promote fighting. 
"I would still like to do more to help the Kurds," Clinton said. "But frankly, if you want the fighting to be ended, the leaders of the various factions are going to have to be willing to go back to the peace table and talk it through." 
The U.S. government has sponsored the Iraqi National Congress since the Gulf War as a means of fomenting opposi­tion to Saddam. But the organi­zation was effectively broken up by Saddam's military provo­cations in Iraq's Kurdish north. 
Administration officials appearing on the Sunday news programs made clear that U.S. strategic interests lie in the South, where Iraq borders the oil-rich nations of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, and not in involvement in the complex factional fighting in the Kurdish north. 
"It makes better sense for us to operate on a strategic basis and try to say to Saddam Hussein, 'You can play these games in the north but you are going to pay one hell of a price every time you do it,"' White House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta said on CNN's "Late Edition." 
"We should not be involved in civil war in the north," Defense Secretary William Perry said on CBS' "Face the 


0 The Patriotic Union of Kurdistan claim thousands of people are fleeing towns captured by the Kurdistan Democratic Party, Saddam's allies, on Sunday. The Dokan Dam which controls power for the region may be their next target. 
f) PUK leaders also report an exodus from Sulaymaniyah. They claim the city may be the target of a three-pronged KDP-Iraqi offensive. 
Nation." "We should focus our actions where our interests are." 
Saddam, at the invitation of one of the Kurdish factions, on Aug. 31 violated the Kurdish "safe haven" zone by sending some 40,000 troops into the Kurdish capital of Irbil. 
The Clinton administration responded by firing cruise mis­siles at Iraqi anti-missile sites in southern Iraq and extending to the outskirts of Baghdad the "no-fly" zone set up after Iraq's defeat in the 1991 Gulf War. 
Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Gen. John Shalikashvili, speaking on NBC's "Meet the Press," said there were signs Saddam is trying to repair some of the sites damaged in missile attacks. 
"We have warned Saddam Hussein that any attempt to repair those sites or reinforce them will be taken very seri-
APNim. J. Castello 


ously and he must understand the consequences of such an act," Shalikashvili said. 
None of the officials could give a clear picture of the extent of Iraqi involvement in the latest outbreak of Kurdish factional fighting in the north, around the town of Degala. 
Shalikashvili estimated that there are only a few hundred Iraqis left north of the safe haven boundary line. 
Fall Break Selllinars October 20-25, 1996 Experiential/ Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
RPPRLRCHIR SEMINAR Service learning at one of twelve sites in the Appalachian region An ND tradition of service One-credit Theology CULTURRL 0 I UERS ITY SEMI NRR Explore the cultural richness of Chicago Examines issues of diversity and related concerns One-credit Theology or Sociology Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs WRSH INGTDN SEMI NRR Theme: Education in America Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government  
Applications Available Now at the Center for Social Concerns Applications Due· Wednesday Sept. 11, 1996 All Seminars Depart Sunday Morning, Oct. 20th  


Student panel talks about study abroad at St. Patrick's College Maynooth, Ireland Everyone welcome! 
Shenanigans 
NOTRE DAME'S ONLY SINGING AND DANCING ENSEMBLE 
Announces Exi:ended Aud•i:•ons 
One lljahi: Only! 
Tuesday, September lOth 8:45-10:45 p.m. Calll-5896 for an audition time 
• Positions available for men and women singers and dancers 
o Over IS performances every year 
o Only 6 hours per week 

o members of all ND and SMC choirs are encouraged to audition 
Study abroad in Ireland 
Ireland Program 
Information Sessions: 
Sept. 10 7:00p.m. Haggar College Center, SMC 
Room 303 Sept. 11 7:00p.m. DeBartolo Classroom Building, ND Room 140 

page8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 10, 1996 
Party 
continued from page 1 
building which will be offensive or obnoxious to any other tenant of the building or residents of the neighborhood." 
"Anyone can interpret any­thing they want out of the Bible," said senior and College Park resident Dave Slaydon, likening the situation to the seg­ment of the lease. "The lan­guage is vague." 
"Everyone has a different defi­nition of what a party is," Kracher added. "We don't want people crowding around kegs on the balconies or hanging off the balconies." 
Noise level, trespassing, trash around the buildings and bottles in parking lots, which have led to flat tires for tenants, were cited by management as prompting the response. 
"It doesn't effect too many people," Slaydon added. "Sure it would be great to have a party once in a while, but if everyone felt that way, they'd still have one every weekend." 
Other students were not quite so obliging. 
"I've been here all summer," said Saint Mary's senior Maggie Ryan, "and we've never been given a chance to have a first warning." 
The first weekend was wild, she said, but things have calmed down since then. 
Ryan also questioned the appropriateness of such a policy in a complex that is, after all, completely inhabited by stu­dents. 
"I've never been bothered by partying," she said. "Nothing has ever been broken or stolen." 
The complex is not trying to prevent soci!ll gatherings, Kracher added, just to improve the safety and environment of the community. 
"We want an environment where somebody can come home and study," she said. "We just started out on the wrong foot." 
a 
ND rank 
continued from page 1 
magazine ranked the schools. For example, the top 25 nation­al universities were grouped together, and the remaining 204 national schools were placed alphabetically within four tiers. 
Notre Dame tied for 17th with Washington University, St. Louis, Mo., in the national uni­versities category. It was a plac­ing that pleased University President Father Edward Malloy. 
"The important thing is to be in the top category," Malloy said. "It's a situation that, when you're in the top category, you can brag about it to other peo­ple. And when you're not, you tell them what's wrong (with the rankings)." 
But Malloy cautioned that any school's rank depends on what criteria the magazine weighs most heavily. 
"Everyone recognizes that (the rank) is dependent on what the magazine thinks is impor­tant," Malloy said. "There's no perfect formula. Think about the complexity in evaluating all the schools across the country." 
Student body president Seth Miller cited one aspect of the report's methodology to explain why Notre Dame's placing was lower than it should have been. 
In rating the national univer­sities, U.S. News & World Report incorporated categories such as faculty resources and fmancial resources, which were derived from both the under­graduate and graduate pro­grams. 
Notre Dame has focused more on its undergraduate programs than on its graduate programs, which can skew rankings that evaluate studies at both levels. Such a report can overshadow the full value of an undergradu­ate education at Notre Dame, Miller said. 
"For Notre Dame undergrads, (the ranking) vastly underrates 
General Meeting for 1997 Volunteers 
Tuesday, September 10th 7:00p.m. Room 116 O'Shaughnessy 
the quality of the education we get," Miller said. "We focus on undergraduate education more than any other school in the top 25. 
"We shouldn't be compared to the University of Chicago," Miller continued. "I wish we could be compared with schools like Williams or Amherst (two nationally known liberal arts colleges). That's really the kind o( undergraduate education we're getting." 
Other students agreed that Notre Dame's undergraduate education can get lost in the shuffle when the ranking are compiled, whether by graduate programs at other schools or by Notre Dame's perceived reputa­tion as an athletic powerhouse more than anything else. 
"I think (the ranking) is too low," said Katie Naughton, a sophomore from Walsh Hall. "It doesn't give us the credit we deserve. People here work way too hard for the school to be No. 
17. I don't think people think of this school as the academic institution that it really is." 
Mike Walter, a sophomore from Fisher Hall, said Notre Dame ought to be ranked high­er. "I couldn't see us as a top five•school, but I could see us around No. 10. I mean, I applied to Washington (University) as a safety school." 
But however many imperfec­tions lie within the rankings, the fact remains that they do serve a purpose, both inside the boundaries of campus and out­side. 
High school seniors tradition­ally review the rankings in determining where to apply. "We recognize (the rankings) do have an influence on the schools that students apply to and the perception students have in how Notre Dame compares to the other top schools," Malloy said. 
Student government also finds a use for the rankings, Miller said. In preparing its report to the Board of Trustees, to be given later this month, student government used the listings to determine its peer institutions. 
SMCrank 
continued from page 1 

one spot for three consecutive years. 
"We have always considered our consistently high ranking in the U.S. News & World Report survey as an affirma­tion of our mission to make the needs of students and the quality of faculty teaching our priorities," College President William Hickey said. 
"This honor is shared by over 18,000 alumnae, current 


Sunday: 

Gospel Mass at Holy Angels Church Visit Sears Tower Observation Deck Orientation I Discussion over Chicago Style Pizza at Giordano's 
Monday: 

Visit Chicago Board ofTrade (to discuss Futures Trading, etc.) Lunch at the State of Illinois Building Tour of Mexican Murals, Dinner as Cuernavaca Restaurant Blues at The Checkerboard Lounge (optional) 
Tuesday: 

Neighborhood Tours Street Safety Workshop with Chimera (A women's self-defense organization) Attend ethnic play by local theater company 
students, fac­ulty, staff and by our founders and sponsors, the Sisters of the Holy Cross," Hickey contin­ued. 
Along with capturing the top overall ranking in its category, Saint Mary's ranked in the top five in its category for financial resources and academic rep­utation, while claiming the number one rank in the categories of own institution. Those rank­ings are then combined with educational data provided by the colleges to arrive at the final rankings, which were released to the media last Thursday. 

"I think that [the use of rep­utational ranking] increases the prestige of the ranking," said Turbiak. "It really shows th~t the reputation of Saint Mary's has spread across the nation." 
As seniors look back on the three-peat, their reactions build upon the results from previous years. "Many people 
'It's nice to have national recognition for something we live 
everyday. It really gives credit to the hard work and effort to everyone in the College, and the strong 
tradition we are continuing.' 
-Jen Turbiak 

retention rate and faculty resources. 
"It's nice to have national recognition for something we live everyday." said student body president Jen Turbiak. "It really gives credit to the hard work and effort to every­one in the College, and the strong tradition we are contin­uing." 
Annually, U.S. News & World Report conducts a reputational survey of college presidents, deans and admissions direc­tors of colleges, asking the officials to rate those schools in the same category as their 
Join us for a unique Fall Break Experience: 
Sample Schedule: 

are surprised that we've continued to keep the ranking for three years, but a Jot of 
students  are  
starting  to  
expect  it,"  

said senior Kelly Medlin. "To receive this ranking three years in a row really says a lot about the aca­demic and social atmos­phere at Saint Mary's." 
In the histo­ry of the national mag­azine's analy­
sis, Saint Mary's has consis­tently ranked in the top ten in its category. 
High school students tradi­tionally use the rankings as a guide to selecting a college. For most Saint Mary's women, the rankings are a reminder of the qualities that drew them to Saint Mary's when they were high school seniors. 
"I think it's great to have this kind of acclaim for the acade­mic excellence we have had for a long time," said sopho­more Adrienne Sharp. "It reaffirms the reasons why a lot of us chose Saint Mary's." 
CHICAGO: FALL BREAK OCTOBER 20-25, 1996 ONE CREDIT THEO or SOC 
Wednesday: 

Tour ofMrican American Communities Visit Dusable Museum ofMrican American History Lunch: Soul Food I Serve evening meal at the Franciscan Outreach Center 
Thursday: 

Visit Bucktown I Wicker Park Community Northwest Arts Council (to discuss the role of the arts in social change) Lunch at Polish Restaurant: The Busy Bee I Visit Puerto Rican Cultural Center 
Friday: 

Meetings, discussion with community representatives Wrap-Up over Chicago Pizza I Return to Notre Dame in the afternoon 
The Cultural Diversity Seminar is a one-credit experientiallearni.ng opportunity organized by The Center for Social Concerns in conjunction with Multicultural Student Affairs, the Departments ofTheology and Sociology, and the Urban Life Center in Chicago. 
Applications due: Wednesday, September lith, 1996 For further information, contact: Iris Outlaw -631-6841 Jay Brandenberger-631-5293 
--~ ---~--------~-, 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 1 0, 1996 page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editor& Business Manager Patricia C.arson Man Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ BrJd Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Viewpoint Editor .................. Mcaghan Smith Ad Design Manager ............................... Jed Peters Sports Editor ..................... Timothy Sherman Production Manager ....................... Tara Grieshop Accent Editor........................... )oey Crawl(nd Systems Manager ............................ Scan Gallavan 
Saint Mary'1 F.ditor ................. Caroline Blum Controller.......................................... Tyler Weber Photo Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre !lame du Lie and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administra­tion ofeither insrirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi~ tnrials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity and 10 all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Sporrs 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 News/l'hotu 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 l'ax 631-6927 Day Editor/Production 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu 

General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dear Editor: 
Great to have you back, Domers. Let the whining begin! 
For example, take The Observer {Sept. 2, 1996). Please. 
Confronted with the new Clinton-friendly smoking policy in 
the Dining llall, senior Karen Murphy finds it "annoying." 
Columnist Dan Cichalski is "stuck in a classroom reading an 
Emerson or Thoreau essay on nature" on a nice day. 
Christopher Kratovil laments that parking for off-campus stu­
dents south of the JACC is "an unreasonably distant lot to be 
exiled to." And the new Senior Bar policy of no booze for the 
lunch bunch gets a "It's not fair" evaluation from senior Susan 
Galanthay, who sobs, "It was wrenched away from us... 
wrenched away when it was in our grasp." 
Oh. the inhumanity! 
JIM CIERZNIAK Class of'57 

Keeping in step with local issues 
Dear Editor: 

This letter is written on the forthcoming election for the South Bend School Board. Many of you may be tempted to tune out and say it is not your concern. I beg to differ. 
I am a candidate for School Board and thus have some interest in the election. But this letter is only tangentially about my candidacy. Like many fac­ulty at Notre Dame, my chil­dren attend parochial schools because I have believed that those schools are best for them. There are some that argue that I should not be a candidate for that reason and that the Notre Dame community in general should stay out of South Bend school issues and elections. Again, I beg to differ. 
This November, four school board members will be elected, two at large and two from west side districts. These four mem­bers will comprise a majority of the Board for the next four years. These four new mem­bers will play a major role in shaping the future of South Bend schools well into the next century. During the last four years we have witnessed virtu­ally continuous litigation and controversy over building a new high school at Riley, a regrettable and probably avoid­able teachers' strike, and two attempts to close approximately twenty percent of South Bend's schools, allegedly due to finan­cial difficulties. The issues on the agenda in the next four years will be no less pressing and will likely include major school renovations, the largest local bond issue ever, and sub­stantial curriculum revisions at the high school level. The school closing question also may resurface. 
Certainly every faculty mem­ber, staff member and adminis­trator will at least indirectly be influenced by these forthcom­ing decisions, and any student who is more than "passing through" South Bend will also be affected. These decisions will have a major impact on the local tax rate; they will deter­mine the quality of Michiana's future labor force; and they will even inflluence the quality of life in the twenty-first century. 
'certainly every fac­
ulty member, staff member and adminis­trator will be influ­enced by forthcoming decisions, and any stu­dent who is more than "passing through" South Bend will also be affected.' 
If you live in Michiana, you sit out this school board election at your own peril. A total of 25 candidates are running for the four vacant positions. Some candidates have actively partic­ipated in school affairs; many have not. Some have a back­ground that would allow them to contribute substantial exper­tise; others do not. Many are genuinely concerned with the general well-being of South Bend schools and students; oth­ers are one-issue candidates with an ax to grind. 
Obviously, I would like your support. I have a track record of involvement in the public school system, having played a role both in the settlement of the teachers strike and in the decision not to undertake wholesale school closings this spring. In addition, my back­ground in finance would allow me to contribute to finding a solution to South Bend school's current financial woes, even as my background in education would insist on the primacy of educational issues over finan­cial conerns. If you live on the west side of town, I would greatly appreciate your vote. If you want to become more in­volved, I would appreciate whatever additional commit­ment you could make, whether it is financial and emotional, or your time and prayers. Please feel free to give me a call. I value both your support and your advice, even when we dis­agree. 
Even if you disagree with me or my positions, I want to take this opportunity to ask you to get involved. Work for my opponent. Seek out the records of the other candidates. (All the candidates will have an opportuntiy to write a state­ment in the South Bend Tribune. Jo Blacketor's and mine have appeared already.) Find which candidate(s) you can support and then "just do it." It is not an exaggeration to say that the future of South Bend schools is in your hands. 
RICHARD SHEEHAN Depanment of Finance & Business Economics 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• 000NESBURY 
rM ACORNW... PhlJ/ 
OV£RI {}(}N'T&X.Pet:TT13NUR&, 

H&R£.1

08VIOUSl.Y, 8IfTI IA/(}{jtl) I'UIAIORJ<
/..IK&A Tti/0-YeAR.. 
fOI(fOO[J.I

CONTRACT: tU/THMEPI­CA/... ANI} THR£& ~ MONTH!7 5&VERANC&! 
• QUOTE OF THE 0AY 
"Do you not see how nec­
essary a world of pains and troubles is to school an intelligence and make it a soul? A place where the heart must feel and suffer in a thousand diverse ways!" 
-John Keats 

ACCE-NT 
page 10 
.WEBSITE 

The Rood tOo 
Kill 
By JASON HUGGINS 
World Wide Web Cot~Jldent 

Since the invention of Gutenberg's printi 
fifteenth centu:ryi, world pas se 
layout ···· ;F fP""''""'" ,,..,...,,...... have s rned a page layout; Butwh6h theWorldWide . ........ ··.. 
seen in 1993, centQti~(lfgQod techniqu mdes1gn were basically thrown Ot.Jt the window by the computer schm". tists in charge. , 
David Siegel, with his new book "Creating Killer Web 
Sites" and the companion web site fwww.killersltes.com), 
is bringing back the importance of good com~u.nication 
skills on the lnterl:U)t. . . .. !? • 
On the Internet/Siegel conunents~ "Here ~~ tlie b~ggest contribution to communicationtechno e Ot.Jt of the last. decade, jj. ~lubal network ll. · .. , million people worJdWide;aJid designe~ <JQnununicAti(ln designers. no less...,. a.re nowhere to be ~e~l!/' '.Yith. the freedom ofthe Web comes new responslbtlity:lt will take new thinking to make the Web more visually appealing as it continues to grow in importance. . 
"Creating Killer Web Sites" is one of the first true design books for the Web. Siegel discusses many issues related to web site design: site structure, use ofmetaphor and theme. inform~tiP:l)rhased versusen, ent· based sites, layoutc?ritrol, PhotoshQp trt . ll HTML tags to use, why tiodo use frames, and rnore; ....... 
The typical, "Welcome to my home page" ispredomi· nantly text-onlyand unattractive. But this is what the original creators Qfthe Web had in mind. The Web Creators intended HTML to look good on ASCII (text-only) terminals. black·and·white monitors, andlow-resolution color displays. It had to serve the lowest common denpm­ina.tor. so scientists around the world could share thmr findings. This is what Siegel calls a first-generation site. 
Second-generation sites appeared shortly after . · Netscape added extensiohs to the HTML sp~ tion in early 1995. They are essentially ftrst-generat n sites over-bloated with meaningless graphics. Second-genera­tion sites are always searching to be technologically super-cool. They use the latest Java applets. ~hockwave presentations, animated GIFs, and that annoymg <BLINK> tag. 
Siegel's book and web ~ite brings ho~epagedesi!pl back to its roots in the prmted page. Thll'd-generatwn sites are filled with design, and use well·known methods from marketing and con~umer psychology. J\.ttiir<f-gener~ ation site uses typograJ>hic and visuallayout principles ttl describe a page in two dimensions. Third•ge:neration site designers carefully specitY the position and· relationships of all elements on the page, retaining fine control of the layout. According to Siegel, "A properly done third-gener­ation web site should make you feel like you're not on the Web." 
In Chapter 6, "A Page Makeover," Siegel explains the steps wanna-be web page designers can do ~a.ke their pages better. For example, he shows how to use Photoshop to create more dramatic banner!J an~ back• ground art. By t!)ducing the number of ~ol~rs used in online graphics, site designers can dramattcally reduce the time visitors spend downloading the page. All throughout the book and web site, Siegel emphasizes the credo ofthe third-generation site designer: quality, brevi· ty, and bandwidth. 
Having a web site accompany the book has several ben­efits. Any CD-ROM or disk included would have been completely out ofdate before publication. Bu! UJ,e "Boo~ Site" serves as an up-to-date companion refer~nce to tb1s book. On the weq site, youcan find all the files Md chap­ters from the book, as well as pointers to bo'!:*S ;tnd soft• ware useful for makingthird-generationwebsites. 
As the Web changes and evolves, site designers fmd themselves in the middle of a roaring debate on stan­dards and tools. Although the "Killer Sites" book and web site covers everyday techniques of visual layout control, its real emphasis is on design. When the techniques become obsolete, good design endures. 
Jason Huggins is<a l«.nior MIS mqjor jr(Jm Oaks, CA. You can e-mail him at Jason.R.Huggins.3@nd. edu 

By MELANIE WATERS Assistant Accent Editor and BRYAN FURZE Accent Writer 

Ah, the joys of the South Bend social scene. Now here's an interesting riddle -what do you get when you cross a town whose biggest social event is the opening of a new food court at the mall with a campus that treats the word "date" like the most vile of all four letter words? 
The answer is simple: lots of dating-chal­lenged people aimlessly looking for places to go during the pre-bar hours of weekend nights. And while Beacon Bowling and the occasional quasi-nice dining experience offer some reprieve, the most popular weekend date or girl-bonding destination is undoubtedly one of South Bend's fine cinematic establishments. 
Many upperclassmen will recall the days of having no choice but to view a movie at either University Park West or University Park East cinemas. Thankfully, the recent addition of Movies 10 on Edison Road in Mishawaka has expanded the scope of viewing choices for moviegoers. For the truly adventurous (and cheap). Town and Country Mall also offers movie options, albeit "The Return of the Jedi" may be the most recent flick to run there. 
If a car or other mode of transportation is not in the game plan and the thought of taking the Transpo bus to the mall elicits fear and nausea (rightfully so), then our very own Cushing auditori­um might be the answer. 
But where to find the bargains? The best pop­corn? The least offensive pre-movie "don't talk in the theater" cartoon? It's time to look for the "reel deal..." 
University Park East 

The first challenge in seeing a movie at U.P. East is actually finding the building. Nestled in an oh-so­obvious place directly behind Service Merchandise on Grape Road with absolutely no sign noting its presence, moviegoers must find their way past Wendy's and on down the road toward the new Macri's. 
The theater itself is about as aesthetically inviting as, oh, a prison compound. But the current attrac­tions and showtimes are so easy to read, provided one is standing six inches in front of them. After deciding on a feature, it's time to move on toward the ticket counter. 
Perhaps one of the reasons that people are so loathe to date anymore is that seeing a simple movie, the long-time staple of first date material, now costs roughly as much as buying a small yacht. You might as well take your date to Tippecanoe Place for dinner -there's probably less danger of feeling obliged to call the next day. 
General admission after 6 p.m. is $6.25, and all movies before 6 p.m. cost $4.00. (Note that this is still more than even the most expensive video store new release.) Here's the real entertainment of the evening-watching the manly significant other gri­mace in pain as he coughs up $12.50 just to get in the door. 
Having conquered that hurdle, the next stop is the artery-clogging money pit known as the snack counter. Ladies, this is the perfect time to remem­ber everything you've learned about healthy eating. Popcorn? Very healthy! No fat, right? And butter? That's a dairy product, and everyone knows that milk is good for you. If there are more than two people involved, sharing is a necessity so throw in a ni"ce helping of the fifth food group, nachos. And of course, washing all that down with an ice cold Coke (best value size, mind you) brings the total to about $22.50. 
Actually, popcorn prices at the University Park cinemas range from $2.75 to $4.25 with the golden opportunity to purchase a "monster bucket" for $5.00. Grease satisfaction is average at best, mak· ing their buttered popcorn hardly worth the "more fattening than a Big Mac" label. Hey, if you're going to eat the stuff, you might as well do it right. 
Nachos run $3.50, and hot dogs a whopping base· ball stadium rip-off price of $2.25. Would any movie trip be complete without Junior Mints? Hardly, and a respectable sized box costs a mere $2.50. Goobers, thankfully, are a much better bar­gain at only $2.00 a box. 
Calories in tow, it's time to head into the actual theater for a little movie trivia before the show. The seats are comfortable enough. but could stand higher backs for optimal slouching purposes. Not 
Tuesday, September 10, 1996 

the most aerodynamically advanced of theaters, it is challenging to see the screen without sitting in exact center of the middle row. However, sound is good and the picture clear, which is way more than Cushing can brag even on its best days. For the record, the pre-movie entertainment fea­tures a dancing box of Milk Duds and his concession stand rock band. If you actually rate theaters on the quality of musical junk food, then it's amazing that anyone takes you out on purpose. 
University Park West 
This long-established movie theater often stimu­lates fear in the hearts of South Bend's bravest citi­zens. However, one is often forced to view a movie at this cinema because there is apparently an unwritten rule in this part of the country that no movie may show in two different theaters at the same time. Therefore, U.P. West cannot be over­looked. 
Upon arrival at the lovely construction-buried doors of University Park mall, customers invariably step up to the ticket booth that stands majestically four feet tall outside the theater. The problem; it is totally abandoned. Customers usually stand for several seconds before realizing that tickets must be purchased at the snack bar. Of course! Movie prices have now soared so high that tickets must logically be sold with the obscenely priced food. 
After purchasing a ticket, moviegoers must then get in a separate line to purchase their junk food and sodas. This is not a terrible dilemma, but it would seem that the cinema would allow you to be ripped with one large hit, not two. Apparently, this theater is attempting to intimidate people as if they were the registry of motor vehicles. 
After handing over their first born child to the sales clerk, customers are rewarded with any type of junk food they choose and a bucket of soda. 
real fun then begins upon entering the theater itself. U.P. West was obviously designed by a team of mothers from all across the country. All have to bear the constant command, "Don't sit so close to the T.V.!" These mother architects have unified in their desire to protect America's eyes, for 
------·~--~---­
ACCENT 
Tuesday, September 10, 1996 page 11 




last row of seats is in a different zip code than scrnetl. Customers are thus grateful for their >unnl sodas, for by the time they reach their .s, tlwy am totally dehydrated. \er the movie ends, moviegoers stand from their ;s and immediately discover that the bucket of a tlwy just consumed is ready to make a grand 
.. Customers thus turn and begun the long trip k to the lobby, and once there, discover that the 
bathroom is up a flight tairs. hus, the U.P st movie the­r is a conglom­
ltion of tlw reg­ry of motor vchi­rS, tlw mother's !iance for the otection of nnrica's eyes, and 
Hichard Simmons >rkout. If up for all of is. a viewing experience 
this tlwater is satisfactory. Movies 10 As tlw newest addition to South md's einmnatie nnvironment, Movies ~ has tlw distinction of actually resem­'ng a movie theater from the outside. 
e fad that tlw theater is visible from down 1 strnnt should serve as a warning: neon use :Hmds. so please take necessary precautions. r planning a journey on a weekend night, it's 
risabln to l1mve early or else take hiking boots to from thn car to the door. There's no mistaking ere to buy the tickets here, since the line extends n both doors and around the sides of the build-As one person in line observed, "Dang! It 
:s like a General Motors parking lot!" Crowded, and with quite an interesting mix of clientele. ae ticket window is located inside its own foyer is lit, lost you be wearing a light-proof bag on 1r head, by approximately 400 lightbulbs so ong that getting a sunburn in line isn't out of the 


question. Movies 10 redeems its migraine­inducing decor with wallet friendly prices, though. General admission is $5.75 before 6 p.m., and $3.75 earlier. 
One step inside the main doors and you're most definitely not in Kansas anymore, Toto. Specifically, you're in "The Mask." As any Jim Carrey fan or person who was forced to sit through that movie will remem­ber, neon green and violent purple were the color scheme of choice. Movies 10 takes it even further, throwing in a decor that can only be described as Sesame Street on a drug trip. The walls are painted in blocks of orange and yellow against purple woodwork and green carpeting. And don't forget to throw in a 50's flashback with black and white checked ceiling tiles and cow-print doors sporting blue handles. 
If trying to stomach the decor doesn't make you physically ill, then by all means hit the concession stand. But wait! The most exciting thing about the food at Movies 10 isn't the relatively good prices, but the "hidden" snack bar located farther down the theater hallway. While the main snack counter takes its normal place in the main lobby, a second small counter is built into the hallway that houses the doors to the 10 theaters. This is an important inside scoop to have, especially after waiting through the 
huge main line once only to find the other snack bar as you race to the theater 15 minutes late. 
Like admission prices, the food prices at Movies 1 0 are a welcome relief. A small buttered popcorn is only $1.60, and is a comparable size to the U.P. cinemas small. The largest bucket o'kernels and lard is $3.50, and drinks run from $1.60 to $2.50. I lot dogs and nachos are cheaper as well, priced at $2.25 and $2.50 respectively. 
Grease addicts will love the popcorn here, which necessitates at least four napkins in order to be properly enjoyed. Be sure to salt before you leave the counter, though, because the popcorn itself probably was healthy at some point and is a little lacking in the sodium department. 
Even the seats are an improvement here, with all but the last row featuring reclining action and high backs. There are virtually no bad seats, and plen­ty of capacity in the individual theaters. No danc­ing Heese's Pieces here-the pre-movie cartoon is Movie Cat and his Dream Date. Almost as annoy­ing as the bath/rooms, which are decorated in black and white tile with gross amounts of neon 
red that pretty much make them resemble hell. 
If none of the above choices are appealing. or the old wallet is looking anorexic this week, the final option is the Cushing movie of the week. Bless the people at SUB, they do a great job of getting really good movies. But if Cushing is your plan, bring along a book, a magazine. some coloring books, a knitting project...anything to pass the time since the projector breaks roughly every 37 seconds and sound and/or picture quality are always optional. 
A few words of caution for any moviegoer: if headed off campus, especially on a weekend, aim for an "off' showtime. 7 p.m. showings are often a magnet for the junior high and delinquent local high school crowds, who are especially tempt­ed to sneak into R-rated movies and hurl Skittles at unsuspecting patrons. And by all means, stay away from the ~"~'"'''"" back rows of Movies 10. Those high­backed seats are far too tempting for PDA-happy couples who think no one will see them over the seat acks. Finally, above all, check your wall,et before you leave. No matter how much cash is in there, 
grab an extra $20. Your date might have an uncontrollable desire for a jumbo box of JuJuBees. 
• MEI)ICAL MINUTE••• 
Stressing Out 
By LARRY WARD Medical Minu!e Correspondent 
We've all experienced it at some time during our lives ­some of us more so than others. I'm referring to that inex­plicable feeling you get when the DART man seems to holler into the phone, "I'm sorry, the course that you have selected is full. Please make another selection." Immediately your stomach tenses up and your head aches. The feeling also occurs when your professor decides to lengthen a paper assignment or put more information than expected on an exam. Similarly, afte:r a tense fight with your boyfriend or girlfriend, there it is. STRESS!! Those six little letters instantly strike .fear into the hearts of college students across the land. However, we are not alone. . Stress is an individualized response that one has to situa­tions or circumstances that create pressure in his life. Stress is a normal, healthy activity and physicians even believe that it is a necessary part of our lives. 
Many people believe that stress is brought on by an out­side force. However. that is not the case. Stress Is actually our body's physiological response to specitlc outside stimuli that we experience. Doctors commonly refer to these stim· uli as "stressors... 
Our physiological response to stressors helps to mobilize our body systems so that they can help us adapt to the con· stant demands and changes in our everyday lives. For example, athletes tend to physically and mentally perform better under the pressures of game day stress than they do under the conditions ofthe repetitive practice sessions they attend on a daily basis, Physicians define two general cate­gories of stressful events. 
The first category of events includes those events which are intense. Such events often trigger an alarm In our body which tells the body system to prepare for an emergency sit­uation. A pop quiz is a common example of such n stressful event. 
During such an intense stimulus-triggered experience, a "fight or flight" phenomenon occurs. In such an instance, our heart rate is incrensed. extreme muscle tension sets in, and perspiration is noticeable, 
The other type of stressful events are those which are less intense but alert your body to meet a long-term problem that calls for endurance. A typical example of such an event is the endurance that is called for on behalf of medical or law school students to overcome the burdensome workload they take on during school. 
The effects of stress are rarely fleeting. Many of us defer our stressful feelings for weeks or even for months. Many people believe that many illnesses are brought on by accu­mulated stress. In fact, physicians do admit that stress often produces or worsens illness symptoms when demands outweigh our personal resources to cope with them. 
It is not uncommon for people to view stress as a weak­ness. What many do not realize is that this tendency we have to want to feel good at all times can actually add pres­sure to our lives. For us to remain healthy individuaL'>. it is vital that we recognize and learn to deal with stress. 
Many of us are horrible at recognizing the emotional reac· tions that go along with stress; however, most of us are excellent at noticing our physical response to stressors, Such physical responses include headaches, insomnia, upset stomachs, and digestive changes. The emotional changes, on the other hand, are slow to surface r~nd not easily recog­nizable. These changes include excessive laughter, a ten· dency to be easily led to tears. aggressive behavior. increased pessimism, and irritability to those close to us. 
Dealing with stress is key to any healthy existence. In the course of daily events. we develop various ways of dealing with stress. These often include retreat to a safe haven. an area where we feel safe, warm, and protected from the world, and routine changes such as turning in a paper or taking an examination. 
It is still critical though that we all learn to deal with stress. One of the most effective ways of dealing with stress involves a three step process. The first step ls one in which we become more aware of things that may be particularly stressful for us individually. It is important to realize tlmt all of us react differently to stress, For example, some peo­ple may take on extra responsibility to feel more in control of our lives whereas others may resign from some responsi· bilities so as to more easily deal with major problems, 
It is essential for everyone to realize that there is help in combating stress if you need it. Also, keep in mind tlmt it does take strength to realize you need help. For oxamplt}, professionals are ready and willing to assist you at the coun­seling center. In addition, your rector or rectress is only a few floors away and will willingly help you with your prob­lems. Finally always remember the true power of friend­shlp. A true friend is always willing to help out simply by listening and offering their two cents'of advice. 
My best wishes in surviving the torrents and rough waters 
of stress which are In store for all of us this semester. 
Larry ts a junior science pre·proj]essional major also com• pleting a concentration in STY. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 
Classifieds 
page 12 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 10, 1996 

Immediate opening for part-time  $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  HELPII I Need 1 st. tix and 2 GAs to  
NOTICES  afternoon secretary approx. 30 hrs./wk. Apply at WISSCO Irrigation  TICKETS  FOR SALE RUTGER TICKETS GA. RUTGERS  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F 216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  Purdue. Call Gail243-1439. leave a message if before Spm. PLEASE!  
Inc., 1820 South Bend Ave. or call  "CHEAP"............. RUTGERS 272­ 
277-9851. Within walking distance  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  7233 RUTGERS.. ..  PLEASE HELP!!!!  
ATTENTION JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS  of campus.  ALL GAMES HOME  I need three GA'S for Purdue.  I NEED 2 STUDENT BOOKLETS  
AND AWAY  call Brian @ 2182  AND/OR  
Now is the time for us to come  232.0058  PURDUE TICKET PACKAGES!!!  2 PURDUE TICKETS! II  
together!  Eam extra money in only five min­ 24 HAS.  TICKETS AND ROOM FOR 2  Need 1 tic for Purdue  PLEASE CONTACT  
If you have a passion for JAZZ, or  utes a day! Carriers needed to  BUY -SELL -TRADE  NIGHTSIII  Call Dave @ x4798  COLLEEN X3714  
have ever wondered what JAZZ is  deliver the Chicago Tribune within  CALL BILL FOR INFO  
all about, call Curtis at 634-1605  the dorms.  TICKET-MART, INC.  800-410-5573 (LV. MSG. W/ NAME  NEED STU BKL TS  
for more information.  Call 684-4302 for more information.  I#)  REG & MARRIED  
WANTED:  2719387  MARRIED AND REG ST  
ATTENTION JAZZ ENTHUSIASTS  EARN SOME EXTRA$  trade 4 Rutgers GA's  BOOKLETS OR TIX 4 SALE  
caring for 3 adorable children.  for 4 Pittsburg GA's ·  I NEED WASHINGTON TICKETS  I need 2 Purdue tix-wantto trade for  232-1004  
CELEBRATE LIFEIII  1 or 2 days, near campus.  call Amy x1675  and TICKETS FOR ANY OTHER  2 Pitt GA's? Call 802 273-2554  
NO I SMC Right to Life will hold its  287-9669.  HOME GAME! X0776  NEED 2 OHIO ST GA'S ­ 
First General Meeting TONIGHT at  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  NO ALUM NEEDS  WILL TRADE 2 RUTGRS GA'S  
7:30 in the Coffee Lounge of the  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  WILL TRADE 2 Purdue, Pittsburgh  OSU/WASH/AF/RUT/PITT TIX  + $$  
Center for Social Concerns.  SWIM COACH-ASSISTANT  232-0061.  or Rutgers GAs for 2 Air Force  CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  634-1382.  
COACH NEEDED FOR LOCAL  GAs. 233-1958.  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  AGE GROUP SWIM TEAM. PRIOR  Need tickets for N.D.-Texas  married stud tix books for sale  
3509 Grape Ad(@ Classic Stereo)  COACHING EXPERIENCE HELP­ I need student Ticket books!  FOR SALE: 2 Purdue,4 OSU, & 4  Sept.21 Call1-800-840-3548  232 4827  
255-1172  FUL. CALL 289-SWIM.  Leave a message  Wash stud tix call Jen @ 687-8435  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  for Bryan at:  '93 Alum needs 1 GA or stud. tix.  Married student tickets for sale at  
You break it, we'll fix it! II  HUGE NO FAN DESPERATE FOR  273-2812  BIG BUCKS Paid for Stud. or GA  for Purdue game (sorry your buddy  273-1997  
5 GAs FOR RUTGERS. CALL PAT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  tickets. Purdue a must, other home  can't make it-sell me your extra).  
THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  (813)360-2243.  games too. ALEX@ 232-7324  Kevin 704-365-2214, wein­ Need 2 Pitt GA's  
Breakfast Inn has space available  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'SI  mankc@aol.com  call Sean  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER!  NEED 4 GAs for WASH  x-3311  
private baths, $70 -$90,  I HAVE A GREAT-HOPEFULLY  CALL 243-1287  call CHRISSY @ 273-2580  NEED 2 OR 4 TIX FOR PURDUE,  
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  PROFITABLE-IDEA FOR A COM­ OSU, OR WASH CALL BILL 614­ Do you need CASH?!  
Toll Road, Exit #107,  PUTER GAME. NEED ASSOCI­ Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­ ••••••••GA'S FOR SALE••••••••••  885-4616  I need 2 OSU tix-GA or student.  
1-800-418-9487  ATES TO HELP WITH IT. CALL  GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232­ 2 GA'S together available for every  Call Angela 271-1867  
TOM 288-5655.  7839  game except Wash. & Pitt.  NO Alum has PITT GA's to TRADE  
FOR A GREAT RATE ON  Contact Derek -3028  for OSU GA's. Call Brian (717-566­ needed for my family  
RENTERS & AUTO INS.  NEED PT SITTER M & W AFTER­ Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  5856). Leave message.  2-5 GA's for  
CALL RANDY 257-9572  NOONS & EVENINGS. PLEASE  1st 1 0 Rows 232-0058  $$$$NEED 2 PURDUE GA'SJJI  Ohio State, Washington or  
AMERICAN FAMILY INS.  CALL 273-9512.  Will pay big $$$  NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233­ Air Force  
JUNIOR PARENT WEEKEND  Call Marty 271-9069  5719 FOR BILL-ANY GAMES  Call4-3468  
jtoST&FOUNDI  Hundereds of Students Are Earning  RUTGERS TICKETS AVAILABLE PLEASE CALL 232-0058  **••••••••*HELP************  REALLY REALLY NEED WASH­ 
Free Spring Break Trips & Money!  I am DESPERATE for a TEXAS  INGTON GA'S. PLEASE CALL  
REWARDII If anyone has or knows  Sell 8 Trips & Go Freel Bahamas  NEED: 2 GAs for PURDUE for my  TICKET!IIIIII Will trade or negoti­ 243-9398 OR 273-9278 ASAP.  NEED 2 PURDUE GA's  
someone who has my black  Cruise $279, Cancun & Jamaica  parents. Please call, Katie x2855  ate. Natalia x2529.  WILL PAY$ 50 A PIECE  
Jansport backpack with a camara  $399, Panama City/Daytona $119!  need married/student booklets  CALL JON @ 634-1389  
and datebook inside, I will  www.springbreaklravel.com  NEED 2 OHIO STATE GA  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  x1528 jaret  
gladly give a reward for its return!!  1-8()()-678-6386  TIX ... WILL PAY$$$  ALL GAMES HOME  
Please, I would really, really,really  Call Gina 243-0771  AND AWAY  WANTED FB TIX to any home  WANTEDIII 2 WASHINGTON GAs  
appreciate it!! NO QUESTIONS  232-0058  game for visiting brother. Student  please. -call x2164  
ASKEDII Call 634-1403.  FOR RENT  $$$$$$$  24 HAS. BUY -SELL -TRADE  or GA. Will pay$$. x2119  
I will buy your student ticket packet!  Leaving early for Oct. Break? Sell  I sure could use some Ohio State  
WANTED  NICE HOME NORTH OF NO 2773097  Call Sean at243-1340 $$$$$$$  TICKET-MART, INC.  me your AIR FORCE tickets! $$$$1 271-2349 Sarah  tickets. 2-GAs or Studnt. I'm work­ing with deep pockets. x2164  
WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  
HELP WANTED-$10.25  WALK TO CAMPUS  WILL TRADE 2 PITT GA's OR 2  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  Looking for PITT studenttix.... $$$  :-) Family coming this weekend.  
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and  2-3-4-5 BEDROOM HOMES  RUTGERS FOR 2 PURDUE  232-0061.  271-2349 Sarah  NEED 2 PURDUE GA's for parents  
weekend hours. No exp. required.  232-2595  2WASH 20SU OR2BC 2773097  and 1 stud tix for sister. Call KEITH  
All majors welcome. Scholarships  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  NEED 2-4 GA TIX  x0873 (-:  
available. Info-call 282-2357  1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  GAMES.272-6551  ALL HOME GAMES.  
CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306  STUDENT TIX. BOOK FOR SALE  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  
WANTED: Black Crowes tixll  call 272-5702  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX  In desperate need of TWO TEXAS  
need at least 2 or up to 5. call  ROOMS-NICELY DECOR. IN PRI­ BOUGHT & SOLD  Needed: PURDUE student ticket or  TICKETS!!! Will trade two USC or  
wendy at 243 -9430.  VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­ WANTED: Black Crowes tix ...  232-2378 -A.M.  G.A. Tim X-1643.  two Rutgers or pay $$$. Call Colby  
PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT.  need at least 2 or up to 5. call  288-2726 -P.M.  @ 634-1468.  
Need spending $$ ? City News  BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  wendy at 243-9430.  NEED ND-OSU GA FOOTBALL  
needs carriers to deliver morning  NO ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL  TIX.  Hey! I need 2 student and 1 0 gen­ 
papers door-to-door in residence  House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45  I'll trade my 2 Purdue GAs for your  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­ PLEASE CALL 277-4221.  eral tickets for the OSU game.  
halls. Takes only an hour per day.  min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP  2 Washington GAs.Bob.277-2510.  AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL  Can you help? Lezlie x0723  
Start now. Call Mike 4-1186.  APPL. $650. 317-942-2108  2773097  NEED2 PURGA  
after 6 -317-942-2408.  Desperately Need AIR FORCE  WILL PAY WELL  Need 2 GA Tix's for Purdue  
OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE Grape  tickets (Stu or GAs)!  WANTED TO BUY OHIO STATE  call X4856  Call Matt x1995  
Road has a few positions still avail­able for confident individuals inter­ FOR SALE  Call Staph 634-4135  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL DAVE (614)764-7355  Need lots of Purdue Tix's  
ested in the following positions:  Need Ohio State tickets.  Call Emily 243-9264  
wait, host, bus and kitchen. NO  WORD PROCESSOR  MARRIED STUD BOOK 4 SALE  Call anytime. 302-832-7786  
Football season is under way and  Smith Corona, GREAT COND  277-3864  Need Two Washington G.A.'s for  Hey! I need 2 student and 10 GA  
sales are booming. Do not miss out!  $100 OBO 634-2575 Lauren  family, my tuition depends on it.  NEED OSU TIXI  tickets for the OSU game.  
Apply after 3PM any afternoon.  NEED 2 STD TIX BOOKLETS  Will pay HUGE bucks!  WILLING TO BUY OR TRADE!  Can you help? Lezlie x0723  
1986 MAZDA 323  CALL GIOVANA@ 1-4872  Call Matt@ 234-8474 Thanks.  CALL4-1440  
HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS(3)  4 DOOR, 5 SPEED, A/C,  
NEED TUTORS FOR GEOMETRY,  AMIFM CASSETTE, 106 K,  !!!!!PLEASE HELPIIIII  SALE  Alum needs 2-4 Wash Tix for  
ANALYTICAL GEOMETRY & TRIG  EXCELLENT CONDITION.  I NEED PURDUE STUD. AND GA  FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT  PURDUE STU TIX  Family 612-742-7638 Collect  
PHYSICS, BIOLOGY, & GENERAL  $2500. CALL 272-4562  TIX IN A BAD WAY. CALL SOON,  YOU I Alum seeks happiness &  REG&MARRIED  
STUDY HELP. PREFER TUTOR  x-2235 (Seth or Ben)  fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ 2719387  Need tix (not student) for Purdue  
TO COME TO HOME(5 MIN FROM  91 Geo Prizm, 4 Dr, 5 Speed,  ly pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs.  game. Call collect630-961-0632  
NO), BUT OTHER ARRANGE­ AM/FM Cassette, 92K Highway  $ NEED 3 PURDUE TIX $  OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred,  
MENTS CAN BE MADE 272-8235  miles, $5,300. 273-0153  STUDENT OR GA'S $ CALL TONY @ X3662 $  but not picky. Please call our busi­ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or  TRADE ONLY-2 WA GAs for 2 OSU GAs -273-8379.  PERSONAL  
AEROBIC INSTRUCTOR-Volunteer  87 Mazda auto 90k Great Condition  JENNIFER. 616-925-0629  
..,..  aerobic instructor needed to work at Center For The Homeless. If inter­ 2300 John 631-6414  I am selling a student ticket book. Call Brian at271-7390 before 10pm  NEED Football Tickets  NEED EXTRA CASH?  Won't you be my neighbor?  
ested please call Megan at271­ PowerMac 7200/90, 8 MB  to inquire.  2 for OSU, Washington,  M.F. aren't you sooo glad for  
9342.  $ 1,800  Airforce, Pitt  PEOPLE FROM COLUMBUS,OH  physics lab!  
Lima. I @ or 273-0824  Call Laura 232-2976  ARE WILLING TO PAY LARGE  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Need 3 Washington GAs. Will pay  AMOUNTS OF$$$$$ FOR OHIO  Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's  
Positions are now availalbe at  85 Escort Wagon 5 speed 76730  big $$. x3226  NEED: 5 PURDUE, 5 OHIO  STATE TICKETS.  wife ...  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  miles new muffler new battery runs  STATE, 2 AIR FORCE, AND 2  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  great. $ 700. Call 2730558  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs  WASHINGTON TICKETS.  CALL 271-8614 FOR INFO  Hey gorgeous,  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  Call Kieran@634-4487  PLEASE HELP ME!!! CALL  Kick some butt on day onel  
extN55848  NO stud tickets for sale  SUSAN X4268.  Miss you,  
call 255 6617.  Needed: One Student Ticket for  NO DAD NEEDS TWO (2) GAs  me  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Purdue game. x2085  WANTED: TICKETS OSU  FOR PURDUE, OHIO STATE AND  
-Students Needed! Fishing  Couch for sale. Will deliver to  VS NO 614-687-0380 CALL COL­ WASHINGTON. CALL LARRY  Here's your chance to get involved ­ 
Industry. Eam up to $3,000­ campus. 1-5766.  NEED OHIO ST. TICKETSII  LECT AFTER 9:00PM  (219)422-6088  STUDENT GOVERNMENT OPEN  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  TOP$$ CALL (219)277-1646  TOP$ PAID  HOUSE TONIGHT 117-9 p.m.,  
Board! Transportation! Male or  Mac Pwrbk $400,best offer  I AM DESPERATE FOR A GA OR  2nd Floor of LaFortune  
Female. No experience necessary.  X3097  WANTED 2 GAs ND VS OHIO S  Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE  STUDENT  FREE FOOD!! DON'T MISS ITII  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  CALL COLLECT 215-355-7131  913-541-3240  TICKET FOR PURDUEII  
Who Needs A Bed?  RON  CALL BUFFY AT 243-9038  Eager to see penguins, glaciers and  
2 new single beds for sale!  n. d. tickets for sale  the wonder that lurks in the Arctic  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS- Mattress, Boxspring, and  NO GRAD WILL TRADE HIS 2  271 1635  NO Tickets FOR SALE  Circle? STUDY IN CHILE. mtg:  
Teach basic conversational English  Headboard included. Asking $275  TEXAS/NO TICKETS FOR 2 OHIO  Call 273-6124 after 7pm  9/16 at 4:30 in 117 DeBartolo  
in Prague, Budapest. or Krakow. No  each. Call Jarrod at  STATE/NO. CALL (313)821-2599  NEED PURDUE TIX!!!  
teaching certificate or European languages required. Inexpensive  234-7601.  NO parents need 2Purdue tickets.  CALL ALl 289-4922  Garcia Needs 3 Purdue Tix. 233-4008  There was something I was sup­ 
Room & Board + other benefits. For  92 JETTA 67K SSP, CRUISE,  Call (630)810-0710.  $$$$ I NEED STUD. TIX  posed to do today.  
info. call:  SUNROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521  Booklet!! Will pay big $$$  Need 2 tix for Purdue & Ohio St.  Drink live daquiries?  
(206)971-3680 ext.K65842  Call Mike 243-9224!!  Call 243-9357.  Oh nol He remembered to do that.  
27" GOLDSTAR TV $350  GA TICKETS WANTED GA  Why did I have so much to drink.  
277-3670.  ONLY A LOCAL BUSINESS  I NEED a Purdue STUD Tix  NEED 2 TIX FOR AIRFORCE.call  What day is "? -October?  
Make money selling great  WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE  Call Mike 243-9224  mattx3573  It's nudie magazine day!!  
European sweaters. Call for inter­ 1992 Nissan 240SX SE. Auto.  2 OR 4 SEASON TICKETS OR  
view. 237-0866  Loaded. Only 35K miles. $11 ,800.  INDIVIDUAL GAMES  Need 2 GA's for Washington. Will  DESPERATELY NEED WASH.  Thars just like a bourgeoise to put  
Call233-5409.  ;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;277-1659  pay big $Julie x2141  GA'S. CALL #2456  down a proletariat like myself.  

Tuesday, September 1 0, 1996 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
-
• COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
Badger offense looks 'Cats must rally after loss to iron out wrinkles 
By RlCKGANO 
A."ociated Press Writer 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
Northwestern's euphoric victory at Notre Dame in last season's opener made a loss to Miami of Ohio in the following game all the more difficult to withstand. 
But the Wildcats got over it. In a hurry. They went on to win nine straight, capture a Big Ten championship and earn a trip to the Rose Bowl. 
Now their pain is just as great, their obstacle more demanding -how to rebound from a 28­27 smtson-opening loss at Wake Forest, whose long-suffering program resembles Northwestern's of years past. 
"No doubt this one hurt more than the Miami game," linebacker Pat Fitzgerald said Monday as the Wildcats, booted out of the national polls, trind to redirect their attention to this Saturday's game hack in North Carolina against Duke. 
"Internally we had high expectations, and to go out and play the defense we did is really dis­appointing. It's a sick feeling to let down your tmunmates," he said. 
"One game doesn't make a season. We know that. It didn't last year and we're not going to let it this year." 
The Wildeats played without suspended defen­sive baek lludhaifa lsmaeli, who is expected back Saturday, and could not protect a 24-13 fourth-quarter lead. They were beaten on a linal-minutn touchdown pass. 
And Northwnstern had four turnovers after eommitling 13 all last season during its miracle 

All Students 
Welcome 
0 1Peyton Manning, TENN 0 2 Dann~ Wuerffel. FL 0 3Jake lummer, ASU 0 4 Ron Powlus, ND 0 5 Koy Detmer. COL 
0 1Troy Davis, IOWA ST 0 2 Dam ell Autry, NWU 0 3 Warrid< Dunn, FSU 0 4Ahman Green, NE 0 5Jay Graham, TENN 
----· 
Group 09 · Wide Receive 
0 1Andre Cooper, FSU 0 2 Ike Hilliard, FL 0 3Rae Carru1h, COL 0 4Yalil Green. MIA 0 5Keilh Poole, ASU 

season. 
"We've got to let this one go," said running back Darnell Autry, who gained 173 yards, his 14th straight 100-plus game. "We can't keep harping, 'Oh man, how horrible this is.' We've got to let it go." 
Coach Gary Barnett said the Wildcats must turn to their veteran players and regroup or face a long season. 
"We have to take the hits we deserve and come back," said Barnett, admitting there would be a difficult task ahead. 
"I think we all had this picture of ourselves and when the picture you have in your mind doesn't match the picture that actually develops, either you have to change the picture that's in your mind or you go crazy," he said. 
"And so either we have to play to the level that we see ourselves or we have to lower our stan­dards and I'm not about to lower our standards. I think we can be a heck of a good football team." 
Barnett said his team didn't respect Wake Forest enough, a familiar theme from last season when the Wildcats drew on the fact that many of their opponents and the pollsters didn't give them enough of the same. 
"We played totally unlike the defense that took the field a year ago .... It's a tough lesson. Nobody is more disappointed in us than we are," Barnett said. 
"Our leadership has to take over and make a move. We're all to blame. I'm taking responsibili­ty, too. So are our coaches. 
First Meeting of the 
-PRElAW SOCIETY 
LUI I I I I I I I I I I I I I IJ 
c A L L FIRST NAME LAST NAME u I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I (818) 956-PLAY  A L L S T A R FANTASY SPORTS 73r~?A.ng~l~s~ c~ g~o1 ~  TD Pass TD Run TD Reception  7 Points 7 Points 7 Points  
SCHOOL I COMPANY  ~=:;:::::::;::::;:::::_;:=;::::::;:::::;=;=,-'-----=~--~ Del.lntercepL  14 Points  
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I A~ R  Field Goal  3  Points  
ADDRESS  APT#  HOME  PHONE#  Exira Point  1 Point  
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I  25 Yds Passing 25 Yds Rushing  1 Point 1 Point  

CITY STATE ZIP CODE 'lito<tsy ;~o 10 Yds Receiving 1 Point 
Grorod puze awarded to the entrant who chooses the hoghest scorong player from each of the thorteen boxes on theor ougonat entry tor Mull bl 18 years or older to play. Void where prohibited. To receive an oftic1a! entry form, no p~rchace necessa.ry, send a self addresse~ stamped envelo to All Star Fantasy Sports Prize lund based on 500 entries. In the event that there are tess than l1ve hundred entr~es. pr~ze lund woll be 50 Vo of entry procee 
Tuesday, September 10 
7:00 pm. 120 Law 
Enter as many times as you want. For each entry, make one selection from each box. Scoring will be based on the players' actual statistics using the point system below. Each entry wrll be allowed unlimited trades throughout the season. Players ca~ only be traded for other players ln the same box. Complete detarls wrll accompany your team confirmation report. Entries must be postmarked by September 13,1996. The season will start with games beginning September 14, 1996, and go through January, 1_9~7_, i!:J~u_9i_ng_ '!!I pow! gaf!l~S.:. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ________ _ 
Group 13 ·Kickers 
0 1Ralael Garcia, VA 0 2 Remy Hamilloo. MICH 0 3Phil Dawson. TX 0 4Bran Conway. PSU 0 5Jeff Hall, TENN 
PRIZES 
Grand Prize $7,500 Firs! Prize $1,000 Second Prize $750 Third Prize $500 Fourlh Prize $250 Fiilh Prize $100 Sixlh IO Tenlh $50 


By SHARON THEIMER 
Associated Press Writer 
MADISON, Wis. 

The Wisconsin offense needs a tune-up before the Badgers travel to Las Vegas to meet UNLV, coach Barry Alvarez says. He said the defense played well but the offense made too many mistakes in the season-opening 24-3 victo­ry over Eastern Michigan. 
"We had a lot of break­downs, mental errors, in the offensive line we've got to cor­rect. ... We had some drops by our receivers," Alvarez said Monday. 
He said he was disappointed that a lot of the goofs were made by seniors. 
"You have mental errors in football, but I anticipated they would play better," Alvarez said. 
He said the three running backs played well and he plans to use all of them against UNLV. The rotation would depend on whether the team could get into a rhythm, something Jacking in the first half against Eastern Michigan, Alvarez said. 
"We got the first series and went down and scored and after that, if I'm not mistaken, we may have only had three more series in that half," he said. "We just couldn't get in a rhythm where we had a long drive where we could rotate." 
The Badgers plan to leave for Las Vegas on Friday morn­ing to get acclimated to the desert heat expected to linger into the mid-90s at the 9 p.m. kickoff. Thousands of Badger fans are expected to make the trip. A recount at Sam Boyd Stadium found there are still more than 1,800 seats avail­able. 
UNLV is billing the game as the "largest-attended sporting event in the history of the state of Nevada." The stadium usu­ally holds 32,000 but 8,000 extra seats were added for an anticipated sellout. 
Alvarez said he expects the fans will give the team a boost. 
"Obviously we're going to have the majority of the crowd in this game," he said. ''I'm glad to hear they had 1,800 extra tickets because I'm short about eight of them myself." 
UNLV coach Jeff Horton, whose team lost to Air Force 65-17 last weekend, said he initially was upset the admin­istration made the lion's share of tickets available to Wisconsin fans. 
look­for the best deal on new and used cars 
Gates Chevy World 
Call Greg Mitchem at 237-4000 for appointment 
h ~torp Than ··· IMicblaaa's .#J,, .,l; 
orisJII.•..· 
• Never a cover· 

ONE NIGHT SOCCER TOURNAMENT THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 12 6:00-STEPAN CENTER 
k?'e-e-.=y~~ @. 
OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS :· ~~· FIELD IS 60 YD. BY 40 YD. \ ·-.:.._ 5 ON 5 PLUS GOALIE '-'1" ,-.:, REGISTER ATEAM IN THE RECSPORTS OFFICE 
,,,,.,.fI 

DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 11 TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 631-6100 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 10, 1996 
•NFL 
Brooks shines as Packers slam Eagles 
By ARNIE STAPLETON 
Associated Press W rirer 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 

The Green Bay defense is making it easier for the Packers offense to get into the end zone and let Robert Brooks get up close and personal with the fans in the stands. 
Brooks caught five passes for 130 yards and two touchdowns as the Packers routed the dazed and outmatched Philadelphia Eagles 39-13 in the first Monday Night Football game at Lambe au Field in 10 years. 
The Packers defense, bol­stered by the offseason acquisi­tions of tackle Santana Dotson and free safety Eugene Robinson, produced four more turnovers -that's 10 in two weeks-and gave the offense great field position. 
Green Bay's average first-half starting point was its 41-yard line. 
I "It makes it a lot easier," 
( Brooks said. "When you get the field position we've been get­ting, with the weapons that we have, that makes it a lot easier to get in the end zone." And for Brooks to get into the stands. The rapper-receiver twice got to follow his own advice just a week after giving a copy of his CD "Jump Into The Stands" to President Clinton. 
Brooks vaulted himself into the end zone seats packed with delirious denizens decked in green and gold after TO recep­tions of 25 and 20 yards from Brett Favre, who overcame a rough start to throw for three touchdowns. 
Dorsey Levens even got into the act, doing his version of the Lambeau Leap after a 1-yard touchdown run in the second quarter. 
A Lambeau Field-record crowd of 60,666 watched the Packers go 2-0 for the first time since the strike-shortened 1982 season, when they won their first three. Philadelphia fell to 1-1. 
"Early in the week, I asked for a little extra from our fans," Green Bay coach Mike Holmgren said. "They certainly did that. I wanted it to be a cel­ebration and to have a great evening here in Green Bay. 
"It was our first Monday night game in a long time. It was all of those things, and then we won the game to boot. It was a great evening for us." 
All the way around. 
Brooks had four catches for 116 yards in the first half alone as the Packers built a 30-7 lead against a talented Eagles team that thinks it can unseat Dallas as ruler of the NFC East. 
"We were physically domi­nated on both sides of the ball tonight," Philadelphia coach Ray Rhodes said. "The Packers show you exactly where you are as a team. Turnovers killed 
us." 
Packers defensive end Reggie White wasn't surprised by the blowout, not after Green Bay's 34-3 thrashing of Tampa Bay last week. 
"We thought we were better than them," White said. "We didn't want to in imy kind of way show them disrespect, but with the way we played last week, we figured if we played the same way, we could do this. 
"And we sure did." 

'Edgar Bennett gained 93 yards on 17 carries and also caught five passes for 49 yards, including a 25-yard TO recep­tion. He grabbed Favre's pass in the flat and rumbled his way into the end zone for a 3 7-7 lead with six minutes left in the third quarter. 
The blowout capped an exhilarating week in Green Bay, which began with President Clinton visiting Lambeau Field on Labor Day. 
In two weeks, Favre, who was 17 of 31 for 261 yards after overthrowing his first five pass­es, has seven touchdowns and no interceptions as the Packers have outscored their opponents 73-16. 
Favre said the defense de­serves the credit, and White concurred. 
"The last two weeks, we've put our offense in a position to score," White said. "And tliey've put a lot of points on the board." 
But it was the defense that really spoiled the return of Rhodes, who served as defen­sive coordinator in Green Bay from 1992-93. 
The Packers, who had just 16 takeaways last season, when they reached the NFC champi­onship, already have 10. They had four in the first half Monday night, three of which Green Bay converted into 13 points. 
"It hurts to get beat by like that," Rhodes said. "This was an embarrassing defeat." 
White and Santana Dotson capped the indignity by drop­ping Rodney Peete in the end zone for a safety with 11:06 left. Peete completed 10 of 25 passes for 142 yards, no touch­downs and three interceptions. 
Philadelphia's Charlie Garner scored on a 1-yard run with 30 seconds left to complete the scoring. 
The Eagles trailed 23-0 with six minutes left in the first half and were facing third-and-17 from their own 19 when they put together their only good drive. 
After finding rookie tight end Jason Dunn for 18 yards, Peete threw over the middle to Chris 
T. Jones, who pitched to wide receiver Irving Fryar at the Green Bay 33. 
Fryar was finally caught by linebacker Brian Williams at the 1, and Ricky Watters ran it in from there, pulling the Eagles to 23-7. 
It was the first touchdown Green Bay's first-team defense had allowed in both the exhibi­tion and regular season. 
"They play well when they're at home," Peete said. "As far as the noise factor, that didn't bother us." 
But the swarming defense sure did. Cornerback Doug Evans 
wrestled Peete's first pass away from Jones at the Philadelphia 14, and Chris Jacke kicked a 29-yard field goal just 2:25 into the game. He also was good from 44 and 38 yards. 
The Eagles drove to the Green Bay 45 when Sean Jones forced Watters to fumble and Williams recovered at the 43. On third-and-9 from the Eagles' 25, Favre hit Brooks on the right side for a 10-0 lead. 
The Packers stole the ball again when Dotson tipped Peete's pass high into the air and mi'ddle linebacker George Koonce grabbed it at the Philadelphia 32, leading to Jacke's 44-yarder and a 13-0 lead. 
"We knew last year that 16 turnovers wasn't going to get it," Koonce said. "If we could have doubled that and had 32 turnovers, with the quarterback and the hot hand he had, how much better could we have been?" 
If the first two weeks are any indication, look out. 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with an ad in the Observer 

University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Help Lou 


and the Irish 
strike fear 
into the 
hearts of 
the

IIEXICO CI,.Y, IIEXICO 
Boilermakers

Information Meeting With Professor Angela Borelli 
by wearing Wednesday, September 11, 1996 
"The Shirt 

118 DeBartolo 
'96". Stand 

5:00pm 
up, show 

Returning students will be on hand to answer questions 
our unity, 


show ourShorin-Ryu pride. Wear Karate "The Shirt 
r---------------------, 
•Disci.pl ine 
'96" Notre

•Self-Defense 
•Self Confidence 
Dame will

•Fitness 
win over aU!

Classes Begin Thursday, September 12 Cont}nuous Program -$18.00 Per Semester Meets: Mondays &Wednesdays 6:00-7;30 I Rockne RM. 219 I Black Belt Instructor: Carl Putnam I 
I I

Register in Advance at RecSports 
I

For More Info. Call 1-6100 
I R~~ I 
L---------------------~
-


r----~-----------~ -----~---------­
Tuesday, September 10, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
• 

Jeremy Akers-Offensi'Ve Guard Senior-Notre Dame GPA: 3.3 
It's amazing what this guy can do when he Honda is donating $3,000 to the general puts his mind to it. On the field and in the scholarship fund of his school. In addition, classroom. To acknowledge these academ­his accomplishments were recently recog­ic and athletic achievements, we at Honda nized during ESPN's College Football cov­are presenting him with the Honda Scholar erage. So kudos to him for knowing that Athlete Award. As part of the honor, the big game is won with your head. 
I • 
THE HONDA SCHOLAR ATHLETE AWARD 

-
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll.. 
Orioles rally to beat Tigers 

By DAVID GINSBURG 
Associated Press Writer 
BALTIMORE Todd Zeile can't believe his luck. 
Two weeks ago, he was play­ing with the cellar-dwelling Philadelphia Phillies. Now he's in the middle of a pennant race, and the veteran third baseman is doing more than just kicking back and enjoying the experi­ence. 
Zeile marked his 31st birth­day with a three-run homer as the Baltimore Orioles rallied to beat the Detroit Tigers 5-4 Monday and gain ground in both the AL East and the wild­card race. 
Zeile and Pete Incaviglia joined the Orioles on Aug. 30 in a trade with the Phillies. Instead of playing out the string with Philadelphia, Zeile is play­ing in one pressure-packed game after another as an Oriole. 
He couldn't be happier. 

"It's hard to describe how much different it is here," he said. "It's great to come out and play every day with these fans cheering for you instead of jeering you." 
The victory moved the Orioles within 2 1/2 games of the idle New York Yankees in the AL East, the closest they've been since June 20. 
Baltimore's 27th win in 42­

games also cut idle Chicago's 
wild-card lead to a half-game. 
The teams are even in the loss 
column, and the White Sox 
begin a three-game series at 
Camden Yards on Tuesday 
night. 
The Orioles trailed 4-0 after 

two innings, but Zeile's third­
inning homer made it close 
before Baltimore took the lead 
with two in the sixth. After Cal 
Ripken hit an RBI double off 
Omar Olivares, Richie Lewis is­
sued an intentional walk to 
o?.IHOPEDlC Sp€ 
~ds ~ cl.<i

~~~ ~ .... ' (/15';. 
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replace zipper-shines 



• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 
•Notre 
I 00% Guarantee 
Dame 
8-6 Monday-
Friday

h­
Mario"s 
9-3 -Saturday >­
~ 
1025 East 
0 
0 
Madison 
w 
PARIS 
$309 
Madrid $319 Bangkok $478 Hong Kong $434 Guatemala $249 Costa Rica $249 
fARES ARE EACH WAY FROM INDIANAPOUS lASED ON AROUNDTRIP PURCHASE. fAIII£S DO NOT IHCl.UDE FEDEML TAXES OR Pf(S 
TOTALM«i IElWEEN $3·$45, DfPffONG ON OESTJNAOON Ofl DEPAIUURE CHARGES PNIJ DIRKTLY TO FOWGN GOYB:NMENTS. 
[it.lihijll Travel~ 
National Reservation Center 1-800-2-COUNCIL 
(1-800-226-8624) 
hap:!~ 

EUROPASS FROM $210 

Eddie Murray to load the bases. 
After Lewis struck out Pete Incaviglia, pinch-hitter Chris Hoiles followed by hitting a short fly to left fielder Curtis Pride. Bobby Bonilla tagged up and scored as Pride's throw went well up the first-base line. 
Scott Erickson (11-11) over­came a rocky start to improve to 6-1 in his last eight starts. The right-hander allowed three earned runs, seven hits and one walk in 7 1-3 innings. He retired 13 of the final 14 bat­ters he faced, allowing only a walk. 
"For a while it looked as if he wasn't going to get past the first inning," Orioles manager Davey Johnson said. "Then he was letter-perfect." 
Since joining Baltimore last season, Erickson is 6-0 with a 
1.72 ERA in September. 
Jesse Orosco got the final two outs in the eighth and Randy Myers worked the ninth for his 28th save. Baltimore went 3-1 in the four-game series and is 8-2 against Detroit this season. 
"This is really frustrating. We gave ourselves a chance to win today and we just couldn't do it," Detroit manager Buddy Bell said. "For whatever reason, I think we relax. Obviously, we didn't do the things necessary to win." 
Olivares (7 -11) yielded five runs, five hits and four walks in losing his fourth straight deci­sion. 
Pride hit Erickson's second pitch of the night into the left­field seats, his eighth homer of the season. 
Detroit used three hits and a pair of defensive lapses by the Orioles to go up 4-0 in the sec­ond. After a passed ball by catcher Mark Parent let a run score, Mark Lewis hit an RBI double and scored when Zeile misplayed a grounder to third. 
Zeile made up for the miscue in the third when he hit fourth homer in 10 games since join­ing the Orioles on Aug. 30. 
"I was plus-2 for the night," he laughed. "I gave up one and was able to get three runs back." 
Johnson was very forgiving. After all, Zeile is hitting .390 as an Oriole. 
-



Tuesday, September I 0, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN's SoccER 

Walking wounded 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ SportsWriter 
This past weekend, the women's soccer team had to overcome numerous injuries and illnesses to defeat Wisconsin and Washington. What looked to only be a minor injury could end up impacting the Irish for a large chunk of their season. 
The key to their defense is currently in jeopardy. Freshman Jen Grubb went down in the game against the Washington Huskies. Grubb went out halfway through the second half due after a collision with another Irish player. 
"Right now we are not sure what is wrong with Jen," stated head coach Chris Petrucelli. "We will not know until Tuesday morning, when we hear from the doctor." 
Grubb said that she injured her foot on Friday night against the Wisconsin Badgers. "I am not sure how I hurt it," said 

The Observer/Mike Ruma First year defensive sensation Jen Grubb was sidelined after a collision in this past weekend's game against Washinton. The extent of the injury is still unknown. 
All' Student Organizations 
There wi 11 be a mandatory meeting of all student organization officers on: 
Grubb. "I won't know until the doctors call." 
Grubb went to see a doctor yesterday, and expects to learn the extent of her injury today. She did have x-rays taken, and the results came back negative. 
Assuming the worst case sce­nario, the Irish might lose Grubb for a couple of weeks or longer. In that situation, the team could drop back sopho­more Shannon Boxx. Boxx took over for Grubb in the Wisconsin game. Another pos­sibility would be that senior Amy VanLaecke could switch back to defense. VanLaecke played defense for the Irish at the beginning of last season. The team has no clear-cut sub­stitute at the sweeper position, which could hurt their chances this season. 
The Irish will have their work cut out for them later this week, due to the possible loss of a key defensive player. They head to Michigan State to take on the Spartans on Thursday. 
Kicker 
continued from page 20 
in the endzone," Sanson said in February after signing with the Irish. "If I did get a chance to make a tackle, I'd give them what they deserved. I get mad when I don't put the ball in the endzone." 
If Sanson continues to kick his field goals through the up­rights, he'll have plenty of chances to give Irish opponents what they deserve. Purdue will be the first victim. 
Recycle the Observer 
page 17 

• SPORTS BRIEFS . 
Field Hockey -Anyone interested in field hockey, meet at the field across from Stepan Center, Thursday, September 12 at 6 p.m. Call Chrissy Shannon at 273· 2580 or Megan Kennedy at 243-9476 with questions. 
Challege U Fitness ­Some classes are still open. Please call RecSports for details. If you are not able to attend for any reason, please contact the RecSports office so that we may give the spot to someone else. 
Yoga & Tal Chi-Sign­ups begin Wednesday, September 11 at 7:45 a.m. in the RecSports office. 
Blood Pressure & Body Composition -Testing will be done on Thursday, September 12, from 11:30 • 1 p.m., in the Foster Room, LaFortune. If you cannot get there, contact Jennie Phillips at X5965 to set up 
Valpo 
continued from page 20 
compiling a measly 0.60 GAA while posting shutouts in two of his three starts. Velho has also played every minute of all three games this season. 
Phil Murphy stepped in well for injured defender Alan Woods in the St. John's game, showing that this team pos­sesses a great deal of versatili­ty. 
"It definitely helps to have experience," commented Gansler on the improved Irish defense. "We've been able to get help back there from sev­eral different people, and it looks like it's all coming to­gether." 
It couldn't be happening at a better time for the Irish. 
in Winter or 

Academic: Wednesday, September 4, Montgomery Theater-4 pm 
or Thursday, September 5, Montgomery Theater -7 pm 
Athletic: Wednesday, September 4, Montgomery Theater -5 pm 
or Thursday, September 5, Montgomery Theater -8 pm 
At least one officer from every student organization must attend one ofthe sessions. If you have @Y questions, please call the Student Activities Office at 1-7308. 
Ethnic: Social Service: Monday, September 9, Wednesday, September II, Foster Room-7 pm Foster Room -7 pm 
or 
or Tuesday, September I 0, Thursday, September 12, 
Foster Room -8 pm Montgomery Theater-8 pm 
Honor & Music: Special Interest: Monday, September 9, Wednesday, September 11, Foster Room-8 pm Foster Room-7 pm or 
or Tuesday, September l 0, Thursday, September 12, 
Foster Room-7 pm Montgomery Theater -8 pm 
Spring 1997 

Information Meeting With Fr. David Burrell, C.S.C. 
Wednesday, September 11, 1996 4:30pm 223 Hayes-Healy 
Returning Students will be on hand to answer questions 
-
-

page 18 
• SAINT MARY's VoLLEYBALL 
Belles sweep tourney 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Sports Writer 
Heading into a tough tourna­ment without your two captains would intimidate most teams. However, Saint Mary's young volleyball team rose to the challenge earning first place in the Hanover College Tournament over the weekend. Not only did they defeat every opponent in their path, but they accomplished this grueling feat with little difficulty and without their leaders. 
The demanding class sched­ules of captains Kelly Meyer. junior and Laura Schreeg, sophomore were too much to juggle along with daily volley­ball practices. "It was a diffi­cult choice they had to make, but the team has been very understanding and supportive towards Kelly and Laura," coach Julie Schroeder-Biek commented. 
However. the team could not help worrying about the impending tournament. With a team consisting predominantly of freshmen and lacking expe­rienced leaders, very few expected the outcome of the game to be in favor of the Belles. 
In volleyball, taking the first match is vital. The Belles focused and beat their first opponent in three straight sets. Having defeated Olivet 17-15, 15-7, 15-7, the Belles were eager to face their next com­petitors. 
SMC has faced Earlham in the past and was aware that they were a weak team. "We did a good job," Schroeder-Biek said. "We maintained our level of excellence and didn't play down to their level." Practically flawless, the Belles easily wiped out Earlham 15-1, 15-4, and 15-3. 
Hanover's home court advan­tage gave the SMC team their first taste of difficulty in the tournament. Saint Mary's had to fight for the first set, but eventually their opponents suc­cumbed 18-16. The next two sets were rougher than the previous matches. The Belles were unwilling to give up and claimed victory of the last two sets 15-10 and 15-11. 
SMC headed into the finals with an abundance of confi­dence and met Ohio Wesleyan, also hungry for victory. 
Saint Mary's took the two first sets 15-7 and 15-5. Ohio Wesleyan battled back denying the Belles victory in the next two sets. Mentally struggling, SMC was astonished to go down 8-15 then 1-15 after playing so well. 
Locked in a 2-2 standoff, the Belles knew they were in a "do or die" situation. The team­mates huddled together, refo­cused. and sprung back to their feet. "We didn't come this far to finish second. We came to wm, were the motivating words of Coach Schroeder­Biek. Proving their coach right, Saint Mary's defeated Ohio Wesleyan 15-9 to advance to the winner's circle in the tournament. 
Coach Schroeder-Biek noted, "Everyone contributed to the win. It was a true team effort." 
Indeed it was. 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 10, 1996 

The Observer/Rachael Sederberg Despite the loss of captains Kelly Meyer and Laura Schreeg, the Saint Mary's volleyball squad dominated the opposition at the Hanover College Tournament over the weekend. 
ATTENTION ALL FRESHMEN INTERESTED IN VARSITY LACROSSE: 
,1st Season of Varsity Competition in 1997 
Informational Meeting: 
Tuesday, September lOth Loftus Auditorium at 5:00 P.M. 
Questions? Please call Tracy Coyne 631...4 719 

-
_______...__~--------------------~----------------­
'luesday, September 10, 1996 The Observer • TODAY MIXED MEDIA JACK OHMAN 

MIKE PETERS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r------------------------,0~-----------------------­
,. 

~~----~ ---~-­
page 19 

YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Traveling or working ahroad will lead to new professional prestige. Guard against heing extravagant in December. Excellent communica­tion skills arc a key p<U1 of your suc­cess formula. A raise or promotion is likely early in 1997. D1plomacy is essential when trying to cement business alliances. Regular exercise will reduce stress. Attending a wed­ding gives you an opportunity to meet someone highly eligihle. Dress to impress. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Amy Irving, singer Jose Feliciano, Lakers guard Sedale Threatt, actress Jennifer Tilly. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You now learn something new about yourself. Alter your approach to work and play. A heart-to-heart talk leaves you feeling better. Live your dreams without feeling guilty. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A work-related social event helps you make new contacts. An office proh­lem can be solved by consulting experts. Be willing to pay top dollar for good advice. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A neighborhood improvement project may hit a snag. Offer your expertise. Consider taking a trip to your child­hood horne. Get together with long­time friends to share a casual meal and reminisce about old times. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Financial matters occupy your thoughts. Think about practicing small economies. An extravagant pur­chase can wait. Although you want to take a trip. the timing is wrong. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your professional contacts are instrumen­tal in your landing new clients. Cel­ebrate good news with a close friend. A compromise is necessary to restort' dome,tic han4u1ltty 


VIR(;() (1\ug. D-Scpt. 22! Busi­nes; 1XU1ncr; come through wuh ca~h m emottonal support An accountant or hanker offer' 'age adv1cc. l'ay close atlclllion A new rt•la!JonsiHp will need tunc to develop. 
LIHRA (Sept. 23-(kt. 22): A romantic dream haunts you. Try to unravel its rRessagt•. Yuur needs are no longer what they were. A co­worker's revelation; arc enlighten­ing. An upcoming trip could t'hangc your life. 

SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Although your personality i' great. you may need to pay more attention to your appearance. You and your partner need to resolve some basic difference; heforc making a com­mitment. 
SAGITTARilJS <Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Do qot alluw anxiety to cloud your judgment. Do further research before making a far-reach111g deci· sion. Dist·ussing your goals with a trusted friend help> you envision !he lifestyle you want. Redouble your efforts. 
CAI'RI(:ORN (IJcc. 22-Jan. 19): New business arrangements require very careful thought. Do not sign a contract unless It contains an escape clause. A friend's party may not live up to your expectation;. Try to make a graceful exit. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Even casual moment~ with your family and friends are special. You feel nourished hy the company of those you love. Reviewing recent developments will help you decide if you are on the right track. 
PISCES <Feh. 19-March 20): Learnmg a new 'kill could make a big difference to your career. Try to convince higl1er-ups to foot the bill for your training. Timely re~earch will save a company a hundle of money'

TEAI"\BUILD[NG UERCI5E 
THI5 El<E.P-.CI5£. WILL BUILD TRUST. THE P~RTNER IN FRONT WILL F~Ll. THE 
There will be a.n informational meeting about the Washington semester today at 5 p.m. In 116 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Notre Dame freshmen and sophomores Interested In working for the Student Athletic Trainer Program should attend a meeting in the athletic training room of the Joyce Center today at 7 p.m. 
An informational meeting on the trip to Mexico City, Mexico with Prof. AngeJa Borelli wm take place on Sept. 11, in 118 DeBartolo at 5 p.m. Returning students will answer questions. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

North South 
Chicken and Dumplings Stir-Fry Chicken a.nd Beef Noodle Soup Pea Pods California Eldorado Chicken and Cheese 
Casserole Chimichangas Mexican Rice Saint Mary's 
Salisbury Steak Oriental Blend Vegetables Dijon Roasted Potatoes 

Have something to say? 
Use Observer classifieds. 
The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Read carefully (over) 5 Elephant of children's books 10 Nourish 14 Soon, in verse 15 Flavorful seed 16Awareof 17 Swing standard 20 Gains altitude 21 Indy 500 time 22 Matter in court 
23 Searcher for the Northwest Passage 
24 Mad, Elle and Mademoiselle, briefly 
27"-went thataway" 29 "I could-­horse!" 

Make checks payable to: 

The Observer 
and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
33 Pal, in Aries 34Carson's predecessor 35 Individual 
beings 37 Rock standard 40 "Puppy Love" 
singer, 1972 41 Diamond star Willie 42 Suffix with project 43 Projection room 
item 44 Window part 45 Kennedy, for 
one 46 Sachet scent 49 Suffix with cash 51 Miracle-working 54 Tuned out, so to 
speak 58 Folk standard 60 Compact, e.g. 61 Put into law 62 Lady of La 

Mancha 63 Unwelcome cloud 64 Clockmaker Thomas etal. 65 Judge's order 
DOWN 
1 Mama's mate 
2 Burden 
3 Some college training 
4 Walks in 5 Longtime Dick Clark show, for short 
6 Years in Spain 
7 Storage unit 
8 Off the right path 
9 Betty Ford
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS_ PUZZLE 
Center activity 

10 Prognosticate ..,::-+~:::+:::-i 11 Oklahoma city 
r.:t-::;•• 12 Singer James ..:.:.+-=-+:'-itii.t'-.,..~ 13 Ready to conk out 
18 Like Bach's,;,;,r=-t=~;.F,-E-1 Violin Sonata 1-::+::--EF.+-=t-': No. 3 
19 Environmental prefix 
..,.,_:t:::-t:':+:'+.;-1 23 Earthenware 24 College choice 
R-:t:;t:=-1 25 Entertain f-::-i-:+,-+.::1 26 "-Shelter" (1970 movie) 
28 Leon Uris novel. 48 Olympic pool 54 Problem for a with "The" divisions person in 30 Use 
50 Toronto-to-handcuffs? Montreal dir. 
55 Really funny 51 Wharton grads31 Inventor Nikola person32Wan 52 Grad 56 Sicilian resort 

34 Access to an 53"-Jail" 57 June 6, 1944 
A.T.M. . (Monopoly 35 Attic windows directive) 59-King Cole 36 Awful grades 
38Tadpole Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
39 Baseball's are available by touch-tone phone: Ripken 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 44 Kind of solution 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 45 Throngs 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 47 Here, to Henri 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
0 Enclosed is $70 for one academic year is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
..
0 Enclosed is $40 for one semesterCommunity. 
NameJoin the more than 13,000 readers who have Addressfound The Observer an indispensible link to the 

_,
City State Ziptwo campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
1 
1 
j 
I 
.... 
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, September 10, 1996 
• fOOTBAI..L 

Future is now for freshman placekicker 
By TODD FITZPATRICK sent into the game to attempt a Sports Writer 33-yard field goal. Right down the middle. Sanson nailed the What a difference one week first field goal of his college ca­
can make. reer to break the scoreless tie. 
One week ago, freshman Jim "First time he kicked it, I Sanson was the Irish place­mean, boom, it exploded," kicker of the future. Now he's Holtz said. "Then he kicks off the starter. about eight yards deep in the 
Although Sanson had hoped endzone. I have never seen him to be the starter this season, it do that before. But that was appeared he would have to very encouraging what he did." wait until next year. Or at least But Sanson wasn't done yet. 
-
for a few more games. Despite On the first drive of the second a solid training camp for half, Sanson culminated the Sanson, Lou Holtz decided to series with another successful give Scott Cengia the starting attempt. This time it was 32 job. yards. Right down the middle. 
But Sanson didn't have to "He hit the field goals with a wait one year, one game, or great deal of confidence. He even one half. It only took one attacked it. Wasn't afraid to quarter. miss or anything else," Holtz 
Nearly eight minutes into the said. "Just went in there and Vanderbilt game, Cengia's first really competed very well, so field goal attempt of the season that was encouraging to see." sailed wide right. Holtz had Not bad for a freshman play­seen enough. It was time to ing in his first college game. give the freshman a shot. Despite his inexperience at the 
"Scott just didn't hit the college level, Sanson knows his opening kickoff at all, and he way around a football field. In didn't hit the field goal at all," addition to his high school kick­Holtz said. "And I felt, well, you ing duties, he earned Arizona just go by what is in your heart. all-state honors as a defensive There is no logic for it. There is back and also lined up at no explanation. I just felt it in receiver and running back. my heart. I think that guy is During his senior season, 91 going to kick the ball. And he percent of his kickoffs went for did." touchbacks. 
With five seconds remaining "My goal was to put the ball in the first half. Sanson was 
Purdue. Sanson was two for two on field goals after replacing veteran Scott Cengia last Thursday. see KICKER I page 17 

• MEN's SoccER 
Valpo invades Alumni 
By. DYLAN BARMMER overly concerned about a letdown." Assistant Sports Editor Defender and co-captain Peter Gansler agreed with Koloskov about the need to 
What has begun as a very good start remain focused, saying, "We've beat this for the Notre Dame men's soccer team team so many times, it's easy to lose should get even better tonight, as the focus. We need to concentrate on con­undefeated Irish play host to intrastate tinuing to play tough defense, creating rival and annual punching bag offense." Valparaiso. The Crusaders, although far from a 
Although they will have to be wary of soccer powerhouse, do have the benefit an emotionally flat performance follow­of returning nine starters to this sea­ing a draining 2-2 tie with sixth-ranked son's squad, which comes into the match St. John's last Saturday night, the 2-0-1 with a 0-1-1 record. Valparaiso will be and now 24th-ranked Irish shouldn't led by junior midfielder Bryan have to worry about the Crusaders steal­McCulloch, who led the team in scoring ing their thunder. with six goals and 14 points last season. 
Especially if history is any past indica­Sophomore goaltender Aaron Rhame tion. made a strong debut as a freshman last 
Tonight will mark the 24th meeting season, posting a 2.08 GAA on a less between the two schools, with the Irish than stellar defensive team. Rhame, having won all 23 of the previous games, who was shelled mercilessly by the Irish including three shutouts in the last four last season, must stuff the Irish attack meetings. The Crusaders, who finished early if the Crusaders are to return 5-12-1 overall last season, will be look­home victorious. ing to avenge a 7-0 drubbing they suf­The match with Valparaiso will serve fered at Alumni Field last September, as a buffer game between the St. John's when the Irish exploded for six second thriller and this Friday's match against half goals and outshot the Crusaders 24-West Virginia, when the Irish will try to 
3. move their Big East record to 2-0-1. 
While history is entirely on the side of The tenacious and much-improved the Irish, the fact remains that it will Irish defense has been the key to the take more than the team's presence team's success this season, allowing alone to secure the victory. them to outscore the opposition by a 7-2 
"Valparaiso always plays well against margin in their three matches thus far. us," commented Irish midfielder Sophomore goalkeeper Greg Velho has Konstantin Koloskov. "I think that we impressed in the net in the early going, are all ready to play, though, and aren't 
see V ALPO I page 17 

~--------------------------------------------------~ 
NSCAA/UMBRO 
Men's Soccer Rankings 
Rank Team Record Points Previous 
1 Duke(11) 2-0-0 462 2 2 UCLA (7) 3-0-0 456 3 3 Virginia (6) 2-0-1 447 1 4 Creighton · 4-0-0 372 16 5 Santa Clara 2-0-0 361 8 6 St.John's 2-0-1 342 6 7 Rutgers 3-0-0 327 NR 8 Cal-State Fullerton 3-0;.1 277 18 9 Rhode Island 2;,0-0 269 10 10 Wisconsin-Madison 2-1-1 261 20 11 James Madison 2~0-0 215 22 12 NC-Charlotte 3-0-0 207 23 13 Indiana Q;.1-0 194 5 14 So.. Methodist 1..2-0 167 4 15 Fresno State 2~0-0 150 13 16 (3eorge Mason 2-0-0 101 11 17 Connecticut 4-0-0 88 NR 18 Clemson 2-1-0 69 17 19 Cornell 0-0-0 64 19 20 Florida International 3-0-0 52 NR 21 Washington 2.. 1-0 42 NR 22 Saint Louis f..2-0 32 9 23 Pittsburg 2-0-1 23 NR 24 Notre Dame 2-0-1 21 NR 25 Wake Forest 2-1-0 4 12 
The Observer/Peter Cilell 

• vs.Purdue at Penn State Saturday, 1:30 p.m. 
@) Friday, 8:30 p.m. 
. .:;c): 

• SMC volleyball wins tournament
SPoRts······ 

vs. Michigan State 
at Ohio State 
see page 18 (~ Thursday, 7:30p.m. 
1€& Friday 
• Injury to Grubb could affect future vs. Valparaiso 
Volleyball at North Park see page 17 ~ Today, 7:30p.m. ~ Today, 7 o'clock 
-




