
Thursday, September 5, 1996 • Vol. XXX No.9 TilE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT J\t1ARY'S 

Students: ResNet eases work 
By ETHAN HAYWARD 
Associa1e News Edi1or 
The University's newly activated ResNet is a resi­dence hall computflr network which may be the finest in higlwr education in its com­
ness. and sophistication. And so far student reaction to the network has been fairly positive. 
"It's a lot more convenient (than using a modem). because you can still use the phone and be online," said sophomore Brad Faircloth, a Stanford Hall resident. "If you need to use applications on the network, you can still talk to your lab partner on the phone. And it's muc!~ better than waiting in line at the clus­ters. 
Sophomore Shannon Henshaw agrees. "Those computer labs are terrible." 
Henshaw is also pleased with ResNet thus far, but feels the network would be more bene­lkial if Courseware. currently installed only on duster Macs, were made accessible from stu­dent residences. 
But for residents of dorms that will not go online for awhile, the excitement of ResNet is hard to appreciate. 
''I'm a little anxious to use all of the comput­ing environment that I can," said Jeff Hildebrandt. a sophomore in Morrissey Hall, which will be the last dorm to be connected to HesNet when it goes online Oct. 20, 1997: "It's a little disappointing that Morrissey is going to 
see RESNET I page 4 
bined scope, user friendli-L..------------------------.JI 

August 22. 1996  Lewis  January 20: 1.99li1ii  
Pasquerilla West  Fischer Graduate  Sorin  
Pasquerilla East Siegfried  October 14, 199&.+;;O'Neill  Walsh March 17., 199'l:£0lil:J  
Knott  Keough  Howard  
Cavanaugh  Dillon  Lyons 
Zahm  Alumni  August 20,1i9!::;[;;t  
Breen-Phillips  November25,.1996  Welsh  
Farley  Badin  McGlinn  
Keenan  Pangborn  O'Hara-Grace  
Stanford  Fisher  October20~~99lil;lj4 
St. Edward's  Carroll  Morrissey  

ND among top 100 workplaces 
By ETHAN HAYWARP hso~iate N~W$ Edlror 
Computerworld magazine has ranked Notre Dame among tbe nation's 100 best places to work. · 
In its third annual survey, the,._"""'~-· lyzed more than 1,100 A..,,.,.,.;,~""' bUiiinE)SS~,s. government agencies and educational institutions. In choosing the ~op lOO workplaces, Computerworld considered such factors as salaries, benefits. statfmg, budgets, training opportunities and information technology. 
Notre Dame ranked 62nd overall in the survey, 
see RANK I page 4 
Saddam presses challenge to U.S. mission 
:r:.?'<~ ~-.-~·~· -~~ ~-. '. . . ...~~ .~-. ' 
·-.Punishing 
·Two rounds of strikes against Iraq have destroyed orbadly 
damaged 15 of Saddam Hussein's air-defense missiles. 

~-~ U.S. targetsjY·-~--J ..
1 
No-fly zone f-. •Mosul \ 
/ 
// 
~...(':"··--:: 
-SYAIA-7--K1.rkuk-.·?,-3111h,.-.t~­
) / IRAN

I ,/ IRAQ 1' ~-\ Baghdad o \, 33ndpm~~
:---)-----o-~""'--­'--. . a.Hskandiariyah .. AI Kut ~._ 
J 
No-fly zone~··. Nasmya~ ~sra 
.·7 Tallil Airti~d _..,
100 miles

·­
SAUDI '-, . / ARABIA --·--..KtlWAI! ~n
100km 
1. 

ResNet Hook-Uo Schedule 
The following schedule shows when each dorm will have Ethernet access to the Notre Dame server. 
Harm AGM'-88A mi$SIIe Au.s. F-16fired Harm m1ssilas an Iraqi detection system locked the plane. This anti-radar missile apparently destroyed the target. 
20ft., 6 in. Tomahawk cruise missile 
This missile can be launched from ships, submarines or planes. It flies low and hugs the terrain to avoid radar detection. 
L----------­
0

uaSyfone · ·1 
. . orcas fired 27 cruise m1ss1 es, includinQ 14 Tomahawks from a Navy shtp stationed in the Gull. 
Day two 

Three Navy ships and submarine 
launched 17 more missiles. In the 
evening, an F-16 blasted an Iraqi
radar facility. 
What's next 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher will consult with allied nations in Europe. 
----------·--­
Survey 01ay dispute SMC sense of security 
By MAUREEN HURLEY 
Associate News Ediwr 
Every year during orienta­tion weekend, Saint Mary's Security boasts a campus that is rape-and assault-free. However. feedback from a sur­vey conducted by two recent graduates of the College might reveal a false sense of security held among students. 
At the end of the 1995-96 academic year, Barbara VanDersarl and Tara Hooper, both of the Class of 1996, con­ducted a campus-wide survey on security-related issues. The study was overseen by Susan Alexander, assistant professor of sociology, anthropology and social work. 
The surveys were distributed to all Saint Mary's students through campus mail. 
"We .wanted to hear the opinions of students, and find realistic statistics on campus and see how they matched the professional opinion on cam­pus," said Hooper. 
In addition to shedding light 
see SURVEY I page 4 


Meteor claims passing interest of ND faculty 
ByJUS1YN HARKIN 
News Writer 
What has a four-and-half­pound rock the size of a softball done to be showcased on the front pages of newspapers across the country? 
One rock, or rather meteorite, labeled ALH84001 may just be the proof that primitive life once existed on Mars millions of years ago. 
This rock has taken the idea of life on the planet Mars, a subject once confmed to the boundaries of late night "B" movies, comic books, and science fiction nov­els, and made it a serious topic of scientific debate. 
It is the presence of organic polycyclic aromatic hydrocar­bons (PAH) molecules within the meteorite that lends this Martian life theory credibility. These molecules, which are typ­ically associated with basic life processes, were found in the center of the Martian rock, a location that strengthens the theory because it suggests that 
see MARS I page 4 

By SUSANNE M. SCHAFER 
Associated Press Wri1er 

WASHINGTON 
Iraq twice challenged allied patrols of the newly expanded "no-fly" zone today. A U.S. jetfighter responded by knock­ing out an Iraqi radar site. 
"These actions, plus the cruise missile strikes, demon­strate we will take whatever 
• see IRAQ, page 7 

actions necessary to enforce the 'no-fly' zone," Defense Secretary William Perry said. 
Perry said Iraq had locked its radar on a U.S. F-16 jet­fighter. In a separate incident, two Iraqi MiG jets approached the expanded no-fly zone from the north and then turned back. 
The confrontations were the first indication that Saddam Hussein was challenging U.S. enforcement of the no-fly zone that was expanded after Iraqi forces assaulted Kurdish rebels in northern Iraq. 
Still, Perry said he had seen some signs that Iraq was responding to the U.S. show of force. 
U.S. officials have observed "a general pullback of Iraqi forces in the north," and more than half the Iraqi MiG jets stationed at airbases in the south have moved north, Perry said at a joint appear­ance with British Defense Minister Michael Portillo. 
Still, he said more than 40,000 troops still remained in northern Iraq. 
Asked whether Saddam had begun a serious challenge to the United States, Perry said: "I don't want to forecast what he is going to do. Our opera­tional forces, pilots in particu­lar, are prepared for serious challenges, and I am confident they can meet these chal­lenges." 
The United States has launched three separate attacks on Iraqi targets since Tuesday. the first two with cruise missiles aimed at air­defense sites and the third at a mobile radar facility. 
President Clinton has described the U.S. mission this way: "Our objectives ... are limited, but our interests are clear: To demonstrate once again that reckless acts have consequences. To reduce Saddam's ability to strike out again at his neighbors. To increase America's ability to prevent future acts of violence and aggression." 
But the question remained: What might the U.S. govern­ment do if the Iraqis do not withdraw from the Kurdish area, or if they resume attacks on some of the Kurds. 
"I'd like to know what Plan B is if the Iraqis do not with­draw from Irbil or if there is further aggression in the area," Sen. John McCain, R­Ariz., said on Fox Morning News. 
U.S. allies have had a mixed response to the strikes against Iraq. France and Hussia said they would have favored diplomacy, but Britain has been supportive. 
Secretary of State Warren Christopher left Washington for Europe today for consulta­tions with the allies. Although the trip had been scheduled before Iraq attacked the Kurds, its actions were certain to be high on his agenda. 
In the joint news conference with Perry, Portillo said the 
U.S. strikes against Iraq were part of a shared Western aim of putting "some impedi­ments in the way" of Saddam's repression of his own people. 
"This last action by the United States is best charac­terized as being within that series," he said. 
Earlier today, the Pentagon has said that its cruise missile strikes had "sufficiently reduced" the risk to allied pilots enforcing the no-fly zone. A few hours later, an official disclosed that a missile had knocked out the Iraqi radar site. 
Hostile radar from the SAM site "illuminated one of our planes and we fired a HARM missile at that radar. The 
see ATTACK I page 4 


-~~---------~------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, September 5, 1996 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
Sntall to-wn education 
I figured that this year, I -;::~~~~~~ Wouldn't have too much to learn. I mean, I know how to wake up eight minutes before class and be on time. I've figured out that you don't need to buy all of your books at the bookstore on the first day of school and wait in line until you're late for Dave Treacy your next class. I've Associate even learned about Sports Editor Guinness, nectar of the gods. But I am happy to report that in these first days of my senior year, I have already learned three things. And believe it or not, my education came in the three stop-light town of Clinton, Indiana. 

First off, road trips are a priority, no matter what the cost. Yes, it's sad that I'm a senior and this is a revelation, but I'm learning. There's just something about car dancing down the highway with the Jackson Five (check out 'The love you save,' it rocks) cranking out tunes, throwing pretzels at your friends in the vehicle behind you, and heading home with someone to see where they live and meet their pals, that leaves strong impressions. It's a perfect chance to have deep conversations about things of no impor­tance, an opportunity to make fun of someone for something they did as a freshman (but be careful, someone probably has dirt on you, too), and a time to eat some hometown cookin'. 
This brings me to a second revelation: despite my protestations and denials, there is some Italian heritage to be found in Indiana. The Sicilian in me just couldn't fathom any­where in the midwest where the possibility existed. Granted, all I'd experienced until recently had been the Pastaria and the Olive Garden, so maybe I didn't have much previ­ous exposure. However, once we made it to the heart of the Clinton Little Italy Festival, my eyes were opened and my heart was won. 
This little town of about 5,000 people decked out in red and green knew how to make some bolognaise. Granted, we were taken to the festival grounds by tractor and watched line dancing on center stage, but the olive oil flowed like water, and the wine worked wonders. Some of the finer wines were even corked! By the time the "chicken dance" was played for the fifth time, I didn't care anymore about heritage. I'd found something equally nice. 
Walking down the streets of Clinton and watching my friend greet everyone passing by, both old and young, I got a glimpse of something that isn't found everywhere: com­munity. My friends and I, all visitors to the small town, were treated like family. We danced a polka for the first time (also a dis­tinctly midwestern flavoring to the Italian bonanza) with local folk who were more than willing to share their vast expertise. We ate outside on picnic tables with family and friends, all Clintonites, who got my friend back to speed on small town gossip. And the five domers who made the trip got to experi­ence a different way of life. 
Never before had I experienced such a com­bination: friendship, pounds of fresh pasta, and small town Indiana fun. But don't get me wrong; my Nana still makes a better sauce. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Production  
Derek Betcher  Belle Bautista  
Brad Prendergast  Maureen Hurley  
Sports  Brad Prendergast  
Todd Fitzpatrick  Accent  
joe Cavaro  Ashleigh Thompson  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Meghan Smith  Tom Roland  
Lab Tech  
Dave Murphy  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
• WORlD AT AGlANCE 

Netanyahu shows Arafat intentions for peace 

GAZA STRIP 
With his arm twisted, Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday shook the hand of Yasser Arafat, a man he once condemned as a murderer. Then the Israeli hard-liner and the former guerrilla talked peace. 
The historic meeting at the Israel­Gaza border -arranged after months of U.S. pressure and Palestinian threats -helped clear the air of animosity that thickened after Netanyahu's Likud Party came to power in May. 

It also signaled to the Palestinians that the other half of a deeply divided Israel has finally accepted them, and especially Arafat, as peace partners. 
But it yielded few concrete results. 

At a news conference after the hour-long meeting, Netanyahu said he was prepared to negotiate a final peace agreement and, in his most generous moment, added he hoped to "improve the prosperity and econom­ic conditions of the Palestinian population." · 
Arafat said the meeting set the stage for progress in 
Doctors may release Mother Teresa 
CALCUTTA, India 
Mother Teresa may return home this week after making progress against a chest infection and heart problems, according to doctors. "Her chest infection is completely under control. Her breathing is sat­isfactory," said a statement issued Wednesday from the Woodlands Nursing Home, where the 86-year­old nun was admitted last month. 


"She is alert and cheerful," said nursing home medical director S.K. Sen, who said he expected her to leave the hospital this week. Mother Teresa has been keen to return to the Missionaries of Charity, but doctors wanted her to remain under medical care so that she can regain more strength and energy, Sen said. The Nobel Peace Prize laureate, who is known popularly as The Living Saint, was hospitalized with a fever brought on by malaria. Doctors said the fever aggra­vated her heart condition. 
Substance-free dorms prove popular 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Places like the sixth floor of Denton Hall at the University of Maryland are redefining what it means to have a good time at college these days: It's a no-smok­ing, no-drinking, no-drugs zone. In fact, although the College Park campus has something of a reputation as a party school, there's a waiting list of students who want to get into the university's "substance-free hous­ing." Some students say they just want to avoid temp­tation. Most, however, say it's just quieter and has fewer distractions. "People don't come back from the bars and throw up on the floor like in other dorms," said J.R. Rosenberg, a 19-year-old sophomore from Potomac who lives on Denton's sixth floor. "Last year, the floor above us was really disgusting." About 1,000 students of the 8,000 people in campus housing at College Park picked substance-free housing this year, signing contracts agreeing not to bring alcohol or tobacco into their rooms. (Drugs are banned in all dorms already.) Some entire buildings on campus are substance-free, while some floors in otherwise unre­stricted dorms allow no alcohol or cigarettes. Substance-free dorms began in 1989 at the University of Michigan, which now has 2,600 students opting for the subdued atmosphere. 
• Smnu BEND WEATHER 

5 Day South Bend Forcast AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 


The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Sept. 5. 
50s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~ .............. ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1996 AccuWeather, Inc. 

Prossure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-SWRMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Via Assoc/lJtfKi Press 
Atlanta 87 68 Columbus 84 65 New Orleans 90 70 Baltimore 81 69 Dallas 89 68 New York 89 70 .
~,~,~~~ ~ (f ~ c£fll Boston 80 65 Denver 88 56 Pittsburgh 80 65 Showers TMstorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Chicago 84 62 Los Angeles 83 65 Phoenix 95 77 Via Associated Press GraphicsNet Casselberry 92 73 Minneapolis 87 67 St. Louis 86 67 
restarting the peace process, which has been frozen since Israel's election. 
"The path was cleared for us to negotiate on all levels and in all aspects," he said. 
Netanyahu and Arafat arrived separately Wednesday evening at the Erez crossing between Israel and Gaza. 
Inside the meeting room, a grim­faced Netanyahu buttoned his jacket and reached across a table 
to briefly grasp the hand of Arafat, dressed in his usual black-and-white checkered headdress and olive military­style outfit. Israeli TV stations played the footage of the handshake over and over, sometimes in slow motion. 
Even as the leaders spoke, aides bickered about the height of the podiums set up for the news conference, with the Palestinians charging Netanyahu's was taller and insisting it be changed. 
The two stood side-by-side during the joint 15-minute news conference -but barely looked at each other. and the usually polished Netanyahu appeared stiff 
College freshmen eat class project 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. 

The freshmen engineering students had their assign­ment, and ate it too. The 45 students in an introductory engineering course at West Virginia University were asked to build small cars capable of coasting down an incline. One catch, though: The design had to be edible. There were some creative entries, such as a squat bell pepper with pepperoni for wheels. Another car was fash­ioned from a block of sharp cheddar cheese and had Oreo cookies to keep it rolling. "It's patterned after a Lamborghini Diablo," Brent Criser said of the cheddar car. Professor Bill Miller said the students were graded on the cars' speed, design and innovative use of materi­als. And he was serious about eating the projects Wednesday, saying students who failed to consume them would receive no grade. Some cars were more palatable than others. Edward Mottern noted that there might be a problem with the footlong salami that was the center­piece of his team's creation. "It's a week old, man," a teammate pointed out. Somehow, they managed to get it down. 
Fall corn and soybean prices plunge 
DES MOINES 

Soybean and corn futures prices fell sharply Wednesday after influential private firm Farmers Commodities Corp. predicted near-record crops this fall to relieve one of the tightest supply situations in recent history. On other commodity markets, crude and its products retreated, while gold fell to five-week lows. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 17 commodities fell 1.88 points to 247.10. Corn and soybean futures prices began to tumble early in the session after Farmers Commodities, based in Des Moines, Iowa, weighed in with the first of several private crop production reports ahead of the Agriculture Department's official report next Wednesday. The farmers cooperative and broker­age firm, which in recent years has accurately predicted crop sizes, pegged soybean production at 2.276 billion bushels. That was only slightly below the current USDA estimate of 2.3 billion bushels. Many traders expected only 2.2 billion bushels to be harvested. The firm also said corn production will be 9.02 billion bushels, a figure higher than USDA estimates of 8.695 billion bushels. "Those basically are some pretty lofty numbers," said analyst Don Roose at U.S. Commodities Inc. in West Des Moines, Iowa. "And that just put another nail in the cof­fin for prices." 
·~~----­
Thursday, September 5, 1996 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

• STUDENT SENATE 
Senate adopts advisory mission 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The Student Senate opened its first meeting yesterday by approving the agenda for their report to the Board of Trustees. 
The Senate also created a feedback committee to revise the wording and help create the final draft of that report. The final draft must be approved by the Senate before it is presented to the Board of Trustees later this month. 
The Senate then moved to cre­ate an Ethics Committee to deal with unspecified constitutional problems that have arisen since the last general election. 
The final motion of the meet­ing came from Student Body President and Student Senate Chairman Seth Miller. He asked that the Senate accept a mission similar that of the previous 
····~. ~·· 

Senate. Miller described this mission as "being a campus­wide representative body for the purpose of giving feedback to the CLC [Campus Life Council]." 
Under the mission, the Student Senate would discuss issues, then give suggestions to th:e CLC, who would then dis­cuss the same issues before making its recommendations to 
the administration University. 

of the 

....:·~'"' 
~"':·~···:·-·:,..·... 
.~~::• 
~,;···••'''•":•·«·'·'·""""'· 
.§:Y~---~-. -·:'e-,,.:;"" ·. ''**'~,'@~~~~%""'· . -~ --=~:-..::::;·::;.;.~:::;:~'**,:::, 

Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and questioning students: 
Come join the original group ofqueer Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College students for our first general meeting TONIGHT at 7:30. 
We're a group ofstudents, faculty, and staff who get together on a regular basis for support, education, advocacy, and community building. We've been serving the campus communities since 1984 and need you help planning this year's activities. Our membership lists are kept confidential. 
Cal/634-7474 then dia/2-1011 for location 
11:00-11:00 M-TH, 11:00-12:00 FRI-SAT, 12:00-10:00 SUN 
r~­
I e 

• MUlTICUlTURAL BEAT 
NAACP reaches out to diversify its ranks 
By KELLY BROOKS 
News Writer 
In order to expand the scope and function of the NAACP, Notre Dame's campus chapter is focusing on a mem­bership drive targeting people of all races as its top priority for this year. 
"We saw last semester that a big flaw was that we didn't have any other minorities or anyone other than African­Americans," said Anthony Reid, president of the NAACP chapter on campus. 
"Right now we are soliciting everybody," he explained. "There are no limits or pre­requisites. We want people to come willing to help, people that are available to come as much as possible." 
Soliciting is a year-long pro­ject aimed at expanding mem­bership among other minority groups and white students. Thus far, membership drives have been held at Freshmen Orientation, Activities Night, and the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs picnic. 
"Soliciting is a big change. We're also working on making the programming less Afro­centric. We especially want to co-sponsor with other student organizations under OMSA," continued Reid. 
The changes in NAACP membership won't be as evi­dent until the meetings and events begin. In the past, the 
I Redeem this coupon for a free order of our new
I 

buffalo wings with your
I 

order on Thursday,I September 5 while you I watch the Irish pummel 
Commodores.
I I 

FREE WINGS! 
Come watch Notre Dame embarrass Vanderbilt at our brand new location on our 7...foot big screen 
Ill ­
> 
~.

TV's. After the game stick ·;;: G) 
o· 
Q 
~ . 
.:%...

around and play NTN's 
D. 
"' 
~


popular trivia game, throw 
-~ 
membership has not been large; something that this year's officers hope to cure. 
Another goal of the NAACP this year is to increase ties with the national offices. In addition, officers hope to increase ties between them­selves and campus members. 
"First and foremost, the officers are contacting and have wotking knowledge of how the national and local chapters operate... We've read their mission statements. Nothing says that it [NAACP] is for African-American students only. We felt it was necessary to include all races; all walks of life," said Reid. 
Looking to the future and hoping to encompass a larger role on campus, NAACP wants their name to be more recog­nized throughout the entire student body. 
Reid views increasing the budget as the primary way to accomplish this. In addition, NAACP officers hope to expand both on and off-cam­pus programming, especially through community service projects. 

"Our long term goal is ... closing the gaps with national officers and officers on cam­pus. Building membership, especially outside of the African American race is so important because we limit 
ourselves  by  being  only  
African  Amer icans,"  Reid  
expanded.  

Checkout 





our lreat 
new· 
' 

·location 

11extto
. . ' . ' . ' . 
UP 
Movies 
East•. 
t 
j 
Service Merchandise, Old Macri's Deli 
>

some darts, or enjoy one ::;) G) "2 of our many daily specials. 
pag~ 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 5, 1996 


Attack 
continued from page 1 
radar stopped illuminating," Perry said. Rules of engagement allow 
U.S. aircraft to respond-imme­diately with a strike against a radar site if they believe the Iraqis are tracking them for a potential attack. 

Survey 
continued from page 1 
on statistical information, the survey hoped to take a pro­active approach by eliciting feedback on how safety-relat­ed problems could be resolved. 
"We ended the survey on a positive note, asking students how they would improve secu­rity and what kind of informa­tional programming they would like to see," Hooper said. 
The final results of the 50­question survey are not yet available in statistical form. Students in the sociology department will take on the task of compiling the over 500 responses this semester. 
VanDersarl views the high volume of response to the sur­vey as a call to action for the current student body. 
"Students need to report all incidents, and tell Security details on what must be improved on campus," VanDersarl said. "It's fabu­lous to see that students are taking action." 
Both faculty and students alike expressed concern over students' awareness of safety issues. 
"Stating [security statistics] that no rapes or assaults hap­pen at Saint Mary's gives us a false sense of security," said VanDersarl. "It almost puts people in a frame of mind that nothing can or will happen here, while there really are many incidents that go unre­ported or are sent to a differ­ent office, such as Residence Life or are reflected in Notre Dame Security statistics." 
The ultimate goals of the study are two-fold: to analyze the effectiveness of security on campus and educate students on the realities of the campus, according to Alexander. 
"We really wanted to get an idea of how safe students thought they were. We were concerned that they felt safer than they really were, and put themselves in jeopardy because of that," Alexander stated. 
Citing slow reaction times to Security calls, many poorly lit areas on campus and the few number of officials monitoring the campus at night as prime concerns on campus, VanDersarl stated, "There were many times at Saint Mary's that I did feel unsafe." 
The results should be released later this semester, according to Alexander. 
, oP.'THOPEDIC Sp€ 
<P-0 s ~ c4 

~ ~ -, ~/c.S";. 
Quick Service-Reasonable 
• 
Fix any leather goods 

• 
Replace zipper -Shine 



• Orthopedic & Pedorthic Specialist 
•Notre 
I00% Guarantee
Dome 
8-6 Monday-Friday
Mario's 
9-3 -Sat'urday 





---~ 
>­
1025 East
0 
0 
Madison
w 
Mars 
continued from page 1 
the P AHs are of Martian origin. 
Explicitly, because the PAH mol­ecules were found in the center of the rock and not upon the surface, it is not easy for skeptics to claim that they are simply Earth mole­cules contaminating a meteorite from Mars. 
The meteorite, which is about 
4.5 billion years old, left Mars approximately 15 million years ago. It then spent millions of years hurtling through the solar system before landing on an ice bed in Antarctica some 13,000 years ago. In Antarctica the meteorite remained until 1984 when a team of scientists unearthed it. 
Among the science faculty here at Notre Dame, the attitude about the theory is one of both curiosity and skepticism. 
Although no professor that The Observer spoke with admitted more than a passing interest in the story, they all seemed to agree that while the meteorite may not furnish enough evidence to prove the existence of life on Mars, the prospect certainly is intriguing. 
Said Michael Mossing, a molec­ular biologist, "There are organ­isms growing here on Earth where people wouldn't think to look for them." He cited extreme examples such as geothermically boiling water or the deepest depths of the oceans as other­worldly conditions on Earth that in fact harbor life. 
However, Mossing was also quick to add that one has to keep in mind how much people would like this to be true when analyzing data, because sometimes it is easy to be misled. 
Terrence Rettig, a professor in astronomy who specializes in solar system formation and the structure of comets, helped flXplain that the conditions that could have supported life on Mars may have existed billions of years ago when water was abundant. 
But because of Mars's size, he reported, its gravity could not sus­tain large quantities of the liquid and all of its water eventually evaporated, leaving any organ­isms on the Martian surface for dead. 
Rettig warned, however, that this scenario is not conclusive and added that PAHs are not uncom­mon molecules in space. 
Another Notre Dame professor, Ikaros Bigi, says that he was not fundamentally shocked by the claims. 
"The Earth is not the center of the universe and the sun is not the center of the universe either," he said, referring to past geocentric and heliocentric theories that were later found to be invalid. "The Earth shouldn't be the only place where life exists." 

ResNet 
continued from page 1 
be the last dorm. Getting on (the Notre Dame Server) through a modem is still quite a time." 
University officials are waiting until Morrissey Hall under­goes a scheduled renovation in the summer of 1997 to install the wiring necessary for ResNet. 
ResNet gives every dorm room on campus access to Notre Dame's network, allowing students with late-model computers and appropriate hardware to plug into the Internet, World Wide Web, E-mail, libraries and other University services. 
Thirteen dorms went online Aug. 22, and ResNet will be in service in 21 halls by the end of the fall semester. All 29 of Notre Dame's undergraduate and graduate residences are scheduled to be plugged in by next August. 
ResNet, provided to students free of charge, includes instal­lation and software, expansive personal file space, and consul­tants in each residence hall. The system also features switched Ethernet technology, making it one of the fastest and most reliable networks anywhere. 

Rank 
continued from page 1 
and sixth among the nine colleges and universities selected. 
Larry Rapagnani, assistant provost for information tech­nologies and the University's chief information officer, took part in the initial and subsequent surveys. 
"Notre Dame is a great place to work, and I want as many people as I can tell to know about it," said Rapagnani." We have everything that is associated with a small-town commu­nity. We have our o~n cemetery, photo developing, child care, eating establishments, workout facilities, lakes, church and a museum. It's a lot of things packaged together that says, 'This is different from the run-of-the-mill."' 




PRf!REOmsrrE: ADRENAI.JNE 
Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're likely to see in many course requirements. Then again Army ROTC is unlike any other elective. It's hands-on excitement. ROTC will confidence and decision-making skills. Again words other courses seldom use. But they're the credits you need to succeed in life. ROTC is open.to freshmen and sophomores 
challenge you mentally and 
without obligation and re­
physically through intense quires about five hours per leadership training. Training week. Register this term for that builds your character, Army ROTC. 

ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6986 

Thursday, September 5, 1996 
The Observer • ELECTION '96 page 5 


Perot speech urges political awareness 
By KATIE FAIRBANK 
Assodated Press Writer 
SALT LAKE CITY 
Ross Perot is urging Americans to vote their con­science. But supporters among a cheering American Legion crowd appeared more worried about casting their votes to count. 
John Long of Oregon said Wednesday that he enjoyed Perot's speech, but won't mark his ballot for the Het'orm Party presidential candidate. 
"l don't think one man can do anything without a (major) political party behind him. I don't think he eould aceomplish what he says," Long said. 
Edie Saenz of Denison. Texas, said she will vote for President Clinton even though she respects her fellow Texan Perot. 
"He's got some good ideas. but I don't think he'll get the support," she said. "He's a leader for a business, not a leader for our people. He'd be a good ambas­sador, but not a good president." 
And Arnold McJunkins of Huntsville, Ala., said there is no way he would vote for Perot; he thinks that could keep Clinton in office by siphoning off support for GOP presidential nominee Bob Dole. 
"I'd rather have a sister in a house of ill repute than vote for Clinton." McJunkins said. 

The Observer 
is accepting applications for the following paid position: 
Viewpoint Editor 
Applicants should have editorial writing skills, editing skills, and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint man­ager managers a staff of copy and layout editors and colum­nists. The manager also decides the content each day. 
Call Liz Foran at 631-4542 for information. 
r---------------------, 

Shorin-Ryu Karate 
•Discipl 
ine •Self-Defense 

•Sel 
f Confidence 


•Fitness 
Classes Begin Thursday, September 12 Continuous Program -$18.00 Per Semester Meets: Mondays &Wednesdays 6:00-7:30 .• Rockne RM. 219 Black Belt Instructor: Carl Putnam 
Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 
R~~ L---------------------~ 

• 
great starting pay 

• 
medical and dental care 

• 
management opportunities 


Go far in a career as an Air Force officer. Call USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS TOLL FREE : ;:;;-: -. 
-1-800-423-USAF _a;2't -= ...> 
._._ __...... _.
-•••--------~~r·:: .. 
=' ~=~~~. 
Forums exclusive to party 
ByTOMRAUM 
Associated Press Writer 
DAYTON, Ohio 
Campaigning around the nation, Bob Dole is holding round-table forums called "Listening to America" to meet "real people." But look who's talking: only Republicans, there by invitation. 
"This may not exactly be a biparti­san audience," Dole conceded some­what sheepishly at such a forum in Colorado Springs, Colo., after one audience member after another delivered glowing tributes to him ­and came up with few questions. 
It's becoming a common cam­paign event for Dole, one that enables him to sometimes walk among the crowd with a lapel mike Oprah Winfrey style -just as his wife Elizabeth did with great suc­cess at last month's GOP convention in San Diego. 
He sometimes does two forums a day, and he's got another one planned today at a school in Dayton. 
Reaching a more bipartisan crowd, Dole will appear tonight in 
Clinton courts Florida 
By EDDIE DOMINGUEZ 
Associated Press Writer 
MIAMI 
Two years ago, the mention of President Clinton sparked instant debate in Little Havana where he was frequently called a "traitor" or even a: "commu­nist." 
All that changed with the downing of two U.S. civilian planes by Cuban MiGs and the president's subsequent signing of a 1996 law to punish those who would profit from U.S. property seized by Fidel Castro's regime. 
Courting Florida today and through November, Clinton now hopes to be the first Democratic presidential candi­date since Jimmy Carter in 1976 to win the up-for-grabs state and its 25 electoral votes. 








''TH E S H I NING'' 
Come join us 
Thursday Sept. 5 
for an outside showing of this frightening flick! The movie will start at 7 p.m. on the library green at SMC. Bring a blanket and a friend! 

some voters' living rooms during prime-time on CBS in a five-minute paid commercial. It's a cut-down version of the biographical piece shown at the Republican National Convention, which the commercial networks refused to air. 
On Wednesday, Dole went to a "Listening to America" forum in Ankeny. Iowa, near Des Moines, that was billed as open to the public, 
But only 50 seats were set aside for those doing the questioning, and they were all marked by name. 
The several dozen members of the "public" who showed up were kept far in the back, behind a barrier ­and not allowed to ask questions. 
Campaign aides denied that the meeting had been "stacked," saying that only half of the invitations were sent out by local Republican officials -and the other half extended by the head of the company hosting the forum, Casey's General Stores, a Midwest chain of convenience stores. 
Not surprisingly, that company's chairman, Don Lamberti, identified himself as a Dole supporter in open­ing remarks. 
And that means wooing Cuban exiles, a key traditional GOP voting bloc there. 
"The conventional wisdom is that you need 30 percent (of the Cuban American vote) to win the state," said Chris Smith, national political direc­tor for the Clinton-Gore cam­paign. 
Carter managed to win Florida by getting only 20 per­cent of that voting bloc, which accounts for 7 percent of the state's electorate and 60 per­cent of the 1.3 million Cuban Americans in the United States. 
But in 1992, Clinton won 22 percent of the Cuban American vote and still lost the state to President Bush, who got 71 percent, while Ross Perot, in the race again this year. went home with 7 percent. 


CampaignHighlights 
The latest events on the presidential campaign trail: 
THE CANDIDATES: . 
• 
BILL CLINTON: Declared the cruise missile strikes against Iraq a success. saying that Saddam Hussein now "knows there is a price to be paid for stepping over the line." 

• 
BOB DOLE: Belittled Clinton's record on taxes in a series of Midwest campaign appearances and with a new TV ad that tells Americans, "You shouldn't have to apolo· gize for wanting to keep what you earn. It's your money." 

• 
ROSS PEROT: Indirectly crit· icized Dole and Clinton for their support of military force in Iraq. "War is not a place for politicians to create a positive image and get a bump in the polls," the Reform Party candi· date said to applause from about 4,000 members of the American Legion in Salt Lake City. 

• 
JACK KEMP: Told about 1,000 workers at a uniform factory in Mason, Ohio, that the government was taking nearly 30 percent of their money. "They act like it's their money. Do you all think it's their money?" Kemp asked. "No," the crowd shouted ba<~k. 


NEWS OF NOTE: 
• 
Clinton named former White House aide Erskine Bowles to head his campaign debate team. Negotiations with Dole's campaign on debate dates and format could begin as early as next week. 

• 
Former presidential cam­paign strategist Dick Morris signed a book deal with Random House. The political consultant, who resigned in a sex scandal last week, struck a deal to tell how he engineered President Clinton's comeback and move to the center. 


-THE ASSOCIATED PRESS 
• VI 

Thursday, September 5, 1996
page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS 


Los Angeles bans sale of 'Saturday Night Specials' 



Stores not kicking tobacco habit 
federal regulation eventually remain profitable for many
Discount chains 
will prompt the giant discount store chains. 
chains to follow Target's lead. Tobacco sales generated 4not following "I think in five years people percent of Walgreen's 1995 are going to look back and say revenue of $10.4 billion, orTarget's lead to the Wal-Marts and Kmarts, about $400 million, said 'How could you ever have sold Michael Polzin, a spokesman
By JERRY NACHTIGAL 
cigarettes?' the way we look for the nation's largest drug­
Associated Press Writer 
back now and say, 'How could store chain, based in Deerfield, you have allowed smoking in Ill. Walgreen also doesn't planWhen it comes to selling ciga­
your retail store?" said John to pull cigarettes from its 
rettes, Target Stores quit cold 
Banzhaf, executive director of shelves.
turkey. But other discount 
Action on Smoking and Health. After gasoline, tobacco is the
chains say they have no plans 
Wal-Mart, based in No. 2 reason customers shop at
to kick the tobacco habit. 
Bentonville, Ark., declined to 7-Elevens, said Margaret
Target announced last week 
discuss Target's decision. Chabris, a spokeswoman for
it will stop selling cigarettes in 
Kmart also will continue to Southland Corp. 
its 714 stores by the end of 
stock cigarettes, cigars and Southland operates, franchis­
September, saying tobacco 
chewing tobacco in its 2,147 es and licenses more than
products had become unprof­
stores. 5,000 7-Eleven stores in the
itable. The Minneapolis-based 
"It's my understanding that nation. Tobacco accounted for
company cited heavy shoplifting 
Target's decision was a busi­16.6 percent of Dallas-based 
as well as regulations in many 
ness decision, and as a busi­Southland's $6.7 billion rev­
cities requiring that cigarettes 
ness, we will continue to sell enue last year, or about $1 bil­
be sold from areas off-limits to 
the products," said Teresa lion.
minors. 
Fearon, a spokeswoman for the "Our customers wouldn't like
So far, none of Target's com­
Troy, Mich.-based chain. it if we stopped selling tobac­
petitors have followed suit. 
Target said cigarettes gener­co," Chabris said. "As long as
Wal-Mart, the nation's largest 
ated such a small portion of its it's a legal product and is sold
retailer, said it will continue to 
business -less than one-half responsibly and not to minors,
sell tobacco products in its 
of 1 percent of the company's there shouldn't be a problem."
2,265 stores. 
1995 revenue of $15.8 billion, Wal-Mart and Kmart refused
However, anti-smoking 
or about $79 million -that to say what portion of revenue 
groups contend public opposi­
they weren't worth the trouble. comes from cigarettes and
tion to smoking and tougher 
But tobacco products clearly other tobacco products. 


IBM will be on campus September 6, 1996. For more Information on IBM's campus schedule, visit our web site@ www.cybrblu.ibm.com or contact Career Services. 
ByLOUINN LOTA 
Associated Press Writer 
LOS ANGELES 
The city on Wednesday banned sales of so-called Saturday night specials, the cheap and easily concealed handguns criticized as the weapon of choice for criminals. 
The ordinance, approved 13­0 by the City Council, takes effect in 30 days and is similar to one enacted in neighboring West Hollywood. 
That law undergoes a court test Oct. 3 by the California Rifle and Pistol Association Inc. 
and  the  National  Rifle  
Association.  
NRA  state  liaison  Steve  

Helsley in Sacramento said only the state can restrict firearms. "It has since 1969," he said. "Aside from the broader policy questions here and the ques­tion of law, this ban is just silly." 
The ordinance includes speci­fications of Saturday night spe­cials and instructs the police chief to create and disseminate a list of specific models that meet the definition. 
Los Angeles is the 12th California city, and its most populous, to ban sales of Saturday night specials. California has banned assault weapons but not handguns. 
Statewide bans on similar handguns have been passed in Maryland, Minnesota, South Carolina, Hawaii and Illinois. Other ordinances are under consideration in 13 other California cities, said Handgun Control Inc. 
"These dangerous handguns have become the preferred weapon of choice for crimi­nals," said Sarah Brady, head of Handgun Control Inc. and wife of former White House press secretary Jim Brady, shot with a Saturday night special during a 1981 assassination attempt on President Reagan. 
She said six manufacturers of the guns are within a 50-mile radius of Los Angeles and that eight out of 10 guns confiscated by police in California in 1993 were Saturday night specials. 

Jewish group agrees to settle spying lawsuit 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
The Anti-Defamation League would stop gathering restricted information on hate groups while denying any wrongdoing under a tentative settlement of an Arab-American group's law­suit. 
The proposal filed Tuesday for the approval of U.S. District Court Judge Richard A. Paez would settle the 1993 lawsuit brought by former California Lt. Gov. Mervyn Dymally and others, including the National Lawyers Guild and the American-Arab Anti­Discrimination Committee. 
They claimed ADL investiga­tors obtained confidential records on various groups from police agencies in the city and county of San Francisco and Los Angeles county. Those agencies also are defendants in the lawsuit. 
Under the proposal, the ADL agrees not to obtain informa­tion from any state employee the league knows is forbidden to release it. The ADL also agrees to pull any such files from its California and New York offices. 
The deal stipulates that "ADL has engaged in no misconduct of any kind and that ADL may continue to gather information in any lawful or constitutionally protected manner," said Jerry Shapiro of ADL's Los Angeles office. 
Duke Tun1atoe & The Povver Trio 
Master of Hybrid Blues, Funk & R&B Rock 
Don't Miss This! 
~7.weM K/0 7f/. 4a ~. 255-045K 9:00p. "7, $6 ~ 'lZ> 1teutd 
Saves on calling cards, too! Just dial 1-800-COLLECT and use any local calling card. ®1-800-COLLECT It~ Fast. It~ Easy. It Saves. For long-distance calls. Savings vs. interstate 1-800-CAI.l-ATT basic card rates.  

------~~------­
Thursday, September 5, 1996 
The Observer • CONFRONTATION WITH IRAQ page 7 
• NEWS ANALYSIS
Iraq: U.S. bombed Baghdad 
By WAIEL FALEH allied or other military opera-




U.S. attack centers on south 
_A"""ss'"'""oc.;..;.:ia"""rec.::.d-'-Pr=es"'"s...c.:.W..:..;;ri-=-=te'--r_____ • tions had taken place in the 


area. 
By GREG MYRE 
BAGHDAD, Iraq "The malicious American 
_,_,As~so,c""ia""ted,_P'-'r"-"ess,_W!!..'-'-!rit"-'er____
As anti-aircraft fire lit up enemy ... sent his missiles the night sky over Baghdad, aiming at several military 
NICOSIA, Cyprus
Iraq accused Washington of positions and at heavily popu­
Saddam Hussein's army
attacking the capital, a charge lated civilian sites," including 
attacked the Kurds in north­
the United States denied. Baghdad, the Iraqi statement 
ern Iraq. So why did the
Russia, meanwhile, claimed said. Iraq's "sons confronted 
United States respond with
the U.S. cruise missile strikes the missiles with efficiency 
missiles and an expanded
this week against Iraq violated and capability and downed a 
no-fly zone hundreds of
international law, as the U.N. high percentage of them." 
miles away in the south? 
Security Council failed to An explosion Wednesday 
The Americans made
agree Wednesday on a com­night in the streets of 
clear they were not trying to 
mon response to the crisis. Baghdad's al-Hurriya neigh­
clean up the mess in north­
Detonations reverberated borhood left a hole 6 feet wide 
ern Iraq, a region where
throughout the Iraqi capital and 3 feet deep, but the crater 
many armed groups are
active and no one has more
night and air-raid sirens caused by a cruise missile. 
than partial control. 
blared as the anti-aircraft bat­The Iraqi military said one 
In choosing a target, the
teries fired. Washington, how­person was killed and 11 
Americans opted for Iraqi
ever, insisted no American, injured in the blast. 
air defense systems in the south for at least two appar­ent rea­sons: 
The Global Leader'm 
• Reason No. 1: 
consider 
southern Iraq Sad dam. strike there would have been more impor­The Americans blasted Iraqi filled with risk. tant than the air defense systems in the south The two main Iraqi Kurdish north. Iraq's and pushed a southern no-fly factions in the north have been 
southern zone from the 32nd parallel to quarreling on and off for neighbors, the 33rd parallel, a line that decades, and they again came Saudi Arabia runs only 30 miles south of to blows on Aug. 17, ending a and Kuwait, Baghdad. fragile cease-lire. are major oil As a result, it will be more Iraq intervened on behalf of producers difficult for Saddam to mobilize one faction, the Kurdish with staunchly his army and send it south to Democratic Party, alleging that pro-American threaten Kuwait or Saudi archrival Iran was supporting governments Arabia, two countries that can't the other Kurdish group, the that favor match Iraq's military might. Patriotic Union of Kurdistan. tough action • Reason No. 2: Northern Iraq That intervention sparked the 
Notre Dame vs. Vanderbilt Thursd~~ September 5, 7:00_p.m.at LaFortune Student Center 

Come watch the .opening ft!!_riJ;e on one oftwo bzg screen 7 ·v s 







Free Food 
provided by Fhe HUDDLE 
ptzza
lemonade 
Popcorn 



Raffle Drawing
•Cra~y ESPN Stuff 
• $10(}Bookstore Gift Certificates 
•Autographed Lou Holtz Footballs 

Brought to you by: Student Activities, SARG, and the Huddle 
Thursday, September5, 1996
page 8 The Observer • WASHINGTON NEWS 



IRS auditing Gingrich course 
By LARRY MARGASAK 
Associated Press Writer 
WASHINGTON 
Officials at two Georgia col­leges confirm the Internal Revenue Service is conducting an audit of House Speaker 
N e w t Gingrich's college course, already under inves­tigation by the House ethics com­

mittee. Gingrich The IRS division that audits tax-exempt organizations has contacted the Kennesaw State University Foundation at Kennesaw State University and Reinhardt College. Gingrich, commenting on the audit today, told reporters: "I think it is a fascinating issue to have the power of the federal government come down on one course.... Have you ever any­where in your life heard of one course being audited? "You call the IRS, ask them their guidelines, ask how many 
colleges they've audited one course in." 
Meanwhile, House Majority Leader Dick Armey said he spoke with House ethics com­mittee chairman Nancy Johnson about the timing of the panel's investigation of Gingrich. 
At a news briefing, Armey .said Johnson did not know whether the committee would act by the expected congres­sional adjournment next month. The committee probe would not be terminated when Congress leaves for the year. 
"I rely on the discretion of 
the committee," Armey said. 
Gingrich's "Renewing 
American Civilization" lectures 
were conducted at Reinhardt, a 
private college, in 1994 and 
1995. He began the course at 
Kennesaw in the fall of 1993. 
Marsha White, the spokes­
woman at Reinhardt, comment-­
ed Tuesday that IRS agents 
"said the focus would be an 
analysis of the course." 
The audit is separate from 
the House ethics committee 
investigation of Gingrich's 
course, but there's a common 
thread: whether the course. 
which was financed by tax­deductible donations, met IRS rules for tax-exempt activities. 
Dom LaPonzirra, the IRS spokesman for the tax-exempt organizations division covering Southeastern states, said feder­al privacy law prevents him fr<Jm commenting on an audit. 
James Cole, an outside coun­sel hired by the ethics commit­tee, last month submitted a still-secret preliminary report on his investigation of Gingrich's course. 
He was asked to determine whether the speaker's activities in relation to the course violat­ed federal tax law, or whether any foundation involved with the course violated its tax­exempt status with Gingrich's knowledge. 
Gingrich has denied repeat­
edly that the course ran afoul 
of IRS or House rules. 
James Fleming, chief operat­
ing officer of the Kennesaw 
State University Foundation, 
said in a statement, "I have 
heard from representatives of 
the Internal Revenue Service. 
On advice of counsel, I don't 
feel it is appropriate or proper 
to comment at this time." 

··---ton er in ~ontempt 
.. JAMES JEFFERSON ··· Associated Press Writer 
LITTLE ROCK, Ark. 
Susan McDougal, President Clinton's convicted former business partner, was held in 
· pt of ·today .refusing anf:iwer ue$Hons forE( a . grand jury ·• investigating 
scandal. 
A judge said if McDougal 
't talk to the grand jury by l"''--~''1wu.~-(•Y morning, she would jailed for up to 18 months. "Mrs. McDougal is exercis­
what she says is her right . ence. without good · '' U.S. District Judge I Susltri> Webber. Wright"She is in con~ 
Tuesday, the judg¢ 


McDouga.l to talk to "· band, James, were convicted jury investigating b1 )"A:ay on . fraud counts. 
P~sident and Hillary Rodham Clinton's Arkansas business deals. 
But in a statement read in court, McDougal said she should not have to answer questions of a personal or pri­vate nature before the grand jury and believes she should not be· compelled to answer questions from lawyers with­out haying her lawyer present. 
''Some of her arguments are interesting but they're not the law:· the judge said. 
· Wright said she was not intending to punish McDougal but trying to compel her to testify in the interest ofjustice. The judge delayed a decision on whether any time McDougal might serve on the contempt charge would count against a two~year prison term McDougal received for four felony Whitewater convictions. Earlier today, prosecutor W. ltay Jab,n called McDougal a "recalcitrant witness." Mc[)ougal and her ex·hus-

CAMPUS MINISTRY... ...CONSIDERATIONS 
Are You Settled? Many have asked me in the past two weeks if I was all moved in. While I have most often said "yes," that does not accurately describe the reality. Although I am, in some literal sense, moved in, I have come to appreciate the important distinction between being moved in and feeling settled. For a number of reasons I feel far from settled. It actually has little to do with the fact that I haven't quite worked out a new filing system or found the perfect place for those prized photos offriends and family. The reality has more to do with the fact that I haven't quite worked out a routine. No two days have been the same since I arrived. I'm sure it ha,s everything to do with the fact that I'm new at this Campus Ministry thing, but some days I feel like a bumper pool ball, bouncing from one thing to another with little control over where I'll end up next. 
I have little doubt that many ofyou find yourselves enduring the same sensation and longing for a routine, particularly where academics are concerned, so that you can be about some of the seemingly more important things that you came to college to do. I know that when I get together with college friends these days, twelve years after the fact, we don't speak primarily about what went on in the classroom, how­ever hard that may be to hear for even my favorite professors. More often, we talked about the rest of life. It makes me realize that ifl am not attentive to my own schedule, organize my time and prioritize my activities, these precious days will get away from me. At the end ofan all too often typical day I find myself wondering why I didn't take any time for exercise today, or why I didn't spend some time at the Grotto, or why I didn't take a minute to just kick back with friends. I find myself more determined than ever not to let these days be less than they could be, or less than God would have them be. 
While I was rector ofthe London Program, I was often surprised by the frustration that some of the students felt because they didn't feel like they were having the kind ofexperience that their friends who had been to London had described upon their return. I find myself wondering ifl don't have something to learn now from the advice that I gave them then. It wasn't then, and isn't now, about some incredible "Notre Dame Moment." God graces every moment...and so it's about every moment. It's about being attentive to the giftedness ofour lives wherever we are...in the classroom, in the dining hall, on the quad, in the halls. And it's about talcing time to consider and reflect upon these days even in the midst ofthem. I've become convinced that it is only upon reflection that we really experi­ence anything. Those London Program students who came back and raved about 
their experiences had not only the advantage ofthe entire experience but also some 
time for reflection upon them. All I could do for the frustrated London student was 
to encourage them to live the moment, and to take some quiet time alone to revel in 
the remarkable opportunity that was theirs. It is the best advice I can offer here as 
well, for you and for me. 
In the end, it is that time that we spend alone that disposes us best for prayer. 
Whether we are moved ih such moments by gratitude, or need, or love, or pain, it is 
then that we know best what we wish to bring before God. It is in just such moments that we get to know the person that we are becoming, and move ever clos­er to the person that we long to be. The settledness that we seek lies somewhere in the quiet, somewhere in that time alone, and most assuredly somewhere in you. 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshops 
Tuesday, September 1Oth, Campus Ministry will host the first ofits Eucharistic Ministry workshops, starting at 10:00 pm in the Basilica. 
A second workshop will be held on Sunday, October 6th, at 2:30pm in the Basilica. 
Yearly participation in one of these workshops is a mandatory requirement for all those who wish to be eucharistic ministers in the Fort Wayne/South Bend diocese. 

Sat. Sept. 7 5:00p.m. Rev. Pat Neary, C.S.C. Sun. Sept. 8 10:00 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings For 
Thts Coming Sunday  
1st Reading  Ezekiel 2: 7-9  
2nd Reading  Romans 13: 8-10  
Gospel  Matthew 18: 15-20  


~ --~-~--~--~ ~ ---~­
VIEWPOINT 
September 5, 1996 page 9 


THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAMF. 0FFIC.f.: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1996-97 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Elizabeth Foran Managing Editors Business Manager Patricia Carson Matt Casey Tom Roland 
News Editor ........................ Brad Prendergast Advertising Manager ............................ Ellen Ryan Vi<wpoint Editor .................. Meaghan Smith Ad Design Manag<r ...............................jed Peters Spons Editor .....................Timothy Sherman Production Manager.......................Tara Grieshop Ae<ent Editor ........................... joey Crawford Systems Manager ............................ Sean Gallavan Saint Mary's Editor ................. Caroline Blum Controller .......................................... Tyler Weber l'hoto Editor .......................... Michael Ruma 
The ( >h><rV<r is the imlependem newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administra­tion of eilhcr insdmtion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edi­mrials represt'nl rhe opinion of the majority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Ediwr, Accent Editor, Photo Editor, Sports Editor, and Saint Mary's Editor. Commentaries, lrttcrs and Inside C.olumns presem rhe views of rhe aurhors, and nor necessarily those of Th< ( lh<erver. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's com­munity JnJ co all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines Editor-in-( :hirf 631-4542 Business Office -631-5313 Managing Editor/Viewpoint 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 Spon.'i 631-4543 Systems/Marketing Dept. 631-8839 New... ! Photo 631-5323 Office Manager 631-7471 AcLcm/Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 llay Editor/l'rudunion 631-530.~ Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Gene:rill Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu 

• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
Second coming ofprohibition: The gradual road to a dry campus 
Dear Editor, plan. Second, a clandestine strategy would rather go unnoticed, gradually The University once provided students a 
The student body should be aware of would minimize the expected outcry testing its policies without arousing sus­safe environment to facilitate such activ­the possibility that the administration from the student body. picion from students. ity, eliminating the risks of operating a has enaettld a plan to transform the Last year, University officials tested Returning to campus this fall, seniors vehicle under the influence of alcohol. Notre Dame eampus into a dry, alcohol­the idea of a dry, alcohol-free SYR in were greeted by closed doors at their However, this summer the University free community. I believe that several Stanford HalL This should have been a own bar. Senior Bar once played a decided that if students wish to have a high-ranking University officials intend warning light to Stanford Hall residents unique role in the Notre Dame commu­beer with dinner, it would be in the best to eliminate the prnsence of alcohol on and the rest of the student body. Why nity, allowing seniors to enjoy an interest of the student body that they our campus. If this is the case, the most would the University want to test the evening cocktail, or a couple of drive, rather than walk to get that beer. logical method of implementing such a effectiveness of an idea that it does not dinner-time beers, without having to The administration has voluntarily poliey would be through gradual attri­intend to implement? The administra­climb into a car and explore the South exposed each student at the University tion. tion did not test the policy in several Bend roads. Senior Bar was a safe place of Notre Dame to additional risks. 
i\ gradual method of implementation dorms because it did not want to attract to unwind from a stressful day. Now, would best serve the needs of the campus-wide attention to the event. University officials have forced students administration for two reasons. First, it Quite simply, the University does not to get behind the wheel of a car and RYAN MCINERNEY would enable the University to test the want an active and outspoken student drive to an off-campus bar if they wish Senior eiTeetiveness of new policies, without body rallying for their rights on the to enjoy a cold beer. Nearly every senior Off-campus alerting the student body to any grand steps of the Dome. University officials can legally sip a cold afternoon beer. 
The need for respect 
Dear Editor, 
I was extremely disappointed with the lack of coverage and attention given to the tragic death of Notre Dame senior Patricia Kwiat on 1WA Flight 800. The death of a student, especially in such a distressing man­ner. deserved more immediate attention and respect. The story of Patty's death was published in the third edition of The Observer. While the story was not ns suited for the freshmen orientation edition, it most certainly deserved coverage in the first edition of the school year. Instead, the major headline on August 27, 1996 was "NBC telecasts prompt lights at Stadium," which is hardly as important as acknowledging the death of a student and honoring her memory. The rest of that page included cover· age of the new dorms and defense of' Notre Dame's leprechaun logo. Thcstl issues pale in eomparison to the death of a student. 
On August 28, 1996, Patty Kwiat's story was reduced to two columns on the bottom of the front page. The headline that day was "Gottlieb sus· pected in credit fraud." Instead of paying tribute to a student who· gave so much of herself to Notre Dame and her many friends here, The Observer chose to give top billing to a former student's misgivings. Equally disappointing was the fact that Kwiat's story was cut off mid-sen­tence on page 4. 
A tragedy of this magnitude affects the entire Notre Dame community. The administration's response was commendable; sadly, The Observer's was not. Kwiat deserved better, as did her friends and fellow classmates, many who may not have known about her death until you finally dec.ided .. to print the news. 
KATHLEEN M. MCCANN Senior Seigfried Hall 
Single garment ofdestiny 
Dear Editor, and reflection. For we have gained Patty's 
Having been blessed three years with legacy, a legacy which will live on beyond Patty Kwiat's friendship, I returned to Notre our years here at Notre Dame, and her spirit Dame for our senior year with not only will remain with us for the rest of our lives. anticipation and excitement, but with signifi­An unknown author once wrote, "We are all cant hesitation and sorrow. In my selfish­caught in an inescapable network of mutu­ness,I often find myself yearning to hear her ality, tied into a single garment of destiny." laugh once more, to talk with her once As members of the Notre Dame Family, and more, and to see her blue eyes mischievous­more fundamentally, as fellow human ly sparkle once more. Above all, I wish beings, YOU were part of Patty Kwiat's. You everyone could have experienced Patty's may not have known Patty by name, but magic. Patty viewed the world in an adven­many of you have walked by her on the turous, carefree, and eternally loving man­quad, sipped a drink with her in the same ner; she truly understood and personified room, and belted out the Fight Song with the words "Live Life." I continue to pray for her at NO football games. Patty as well as for our community's Visualize your family and friends. Recall strength to remember her with the tremen­the smiles you have exchanged, the laughter dous respect and love which she deserves you have shared, the affection you have now and forever. given and received for want of nothing in 
I do not believe that publishing an isolated return. Think of the mutual effect you have new story compiled in less than 24 hours had on one another's lives. Remind them of days after we return to Notre Dame, is suffi­your love and care. Celebrate the opportuni­cient for this special remembrance of Patty. ties and blessings that you experience with Our earthly loss of Patty's beauty, intellect, them! Remember, anything can happen and humor; and heart remains an incomprehen­does happen in this world, even to the indi­
sible event, one which leaves us mystified by viduals that you know and love. the tragedy of TWA Flight 800 and our own all too human vulnerability. But it is imper­LAURIE WINCKO ative that we, as a family and community, Senior celebrate Patty's life with both discussion Farley Hall 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Even the death of friends 
will inspire us as much as their lives ... Their memo­ries will be encrusted over with sublime and pleasing thoughts, as monuments of other men are overgrown with moss; for our friends have no place in the graveyard." 
-Henry David Thoreau 
• 000NESBIIRY 
OH, fA/Oti.J, ta)K. AT THAT/ RfTlJI?e /.E!6&NI?, MANl HCNI?R!X I~ PlAYING 
GUITAR IUI7H HIS 
TEETH!'\ 

I IAJONP&R IF THATUOR/<!5 all YtAH, P/AQU/3... OH, BY MAN?' 
7HI311J4"' MAR/<... ~ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
!3tAUTIRJl, 
H/3AVY­
MAN. LAY 
I'M 
IA/13/38TT&R..
/TON 
HAVING 
Gt:TYCV
M/3. 
MY!XJUIJlS 
OV131< 7lJ 7HI3
I /IBOIJT 7HI7 BUMMCR.. 
AC/1?. lCNT,I 


page 10 Thursday, September 5, 1996 

Uatch the 8oundtrack... 
let the Dlo-vie pass on b7 
For a film about heroin that tries desperately to win the hearts of today's youth who were raised on the ridiculously fast editing of MTV, and the music video stylings of Miami Vice a soundtrack with catchy music ideal for quick cuts from shot to shot is essential. 
Luckily for the rest of us, though, the same hipsters that this movie is aimed at also like an entertaining genre of music. 
The soundtrack starts off with the Iggy Pop song "Just For Life," which leads off the film's title sequence perfectly with its upbeat drumming that is heavy on the bass drum. The music is an attack of two guitars playing two separate licks. One guitar is in the high pitched blues' gui­tar solo style and is mixed into the background of the song and the more dominant one is heavy, percussive and repeti­tive. 
Iggy Pop has two songs on the album, both cowritten by David Bowie, the second being "Nightclubbing" which also is very percussive to fit the mood of the film. It is a heavy mix of synthesizers, piano and guitar, these two songs are both from 1990, by which time Iggy Pop had gotten away from his revo­lutionary, pre-punk, atonal style. 
With David Bowie in mind skip ahead to track nine. No, that's not his band, and no that's not even him signing; it's just a very good attempt at regenerating his style. One can't help but be impressed that the band Pulp managed to come up with something catchy in their song "Mile End." Sure it is a good song but one can't help but wish for Captain Glam Rock (David Bowie) doing the real thing. 
Skip back to Lou Reed's "Perfect Day" and who's name should pop up again? That's right, Bowie's. This time as producer of this track that was recorded in 1972. But who knows more about heroin addiction than this trio of Bowie, Reed and Iggy Pop? This song is a ballad mix of piano and violin that could very well be about a girl or a drug. 
That's it for the Bowie influ­ence on the album, but there's still more heroin involved. 
"Temptation" by the founding fathers of synth-pop, New Order, is a beautiful up-tempo, apologetic, love song. New Order is the lighter reincarna­tion of dissonant and darker Joy Division after their original signer Ian Curtis, a heroin 
addict himself, killed himself. 
There is also a track by Brian · Eno, who produced a number of Depeche Mode albums. The song is "Deep Blue Day" and {if you have seen the film) it was used during the "swimming" scene. This song is a melodic layer of synthesizer, with a lazy ukulele playing backup. 
Deborah Harry, of Blondie 
fame, managed to get a song of 
hers, "Sleeper," in the lineup as 
well. It's most attractive fea­
ture is its disco influenced bass 
lines, which dates back to her 
days as both punker and disco­
queen. The song's techno roots 
become tiresome however, 
after you hear the same 
unchanging bass drum after the 
second minute of the five 
minute song, but it's nice to 
hear that Harry can still sing,· 
and out perform many of 
today's dance hall acts. 
Underworld has a track 
named "Born Slippy (NUXX)" 
on the album which is an inter­
esting techno song that com­
mands attention for its full ten 
minutes, due to subtle changes 
in melodies and synthesizer 
noises. The song starts out 
being reminiscent of something 
Moby would do, but progresses 
nicely into a pounding jungle­
techno song. 

The rest of the album includes works by Primal Scream, Blur, Bedrock, Elastica, Leftfield and Damon Albarn. This combination of brit-pop, house-techno and other percussive rock isn't what makes the album worth own­ing, however these songs fill in the spaces well and surely don't 
Courtesy of Capital Records 
get in the of one's enjoyment of the album. 
The nice thing on this sound­track is the variety and compli­ments used here. For a movie that is "all the rage" it's nice that at least the soundtrack deserves to be. 
-by Jason Dorwart 



• COMEDY CORNER 
in retrospect 

(out of five)
MIKE NICHOLS AND ELAINE MAY 
During the time period from and Carnal Knowledge. him. 1958-1962 Mike Nichols and Elaine Since her time with the "Players" Composed of highly ironic and May were a Chicago comedy team, May has written several Broadway very observant characterization of and one ofAmerica's favorite duos. shows. all peoples around them, the album 
They created the "Compass This album consists of truly intel­forces the listener to find the Players" in Chicago and with it one lectual humor and while much of it aspects of his or her life that is of America's most enduring forms is improvisational, it does not rely most revealed in the album. of humor. on the gross or the bawdy for its The couple is able to assume 
. This comedy album was actually laughs. speech patterns, voice qualities and recorded in this time period, but In retrospect pokes fun at all cliches essential to fmding the way like a true classic, it is no less funny things that are common to our to the comic aspects of our lives. today. lives: from telephone operators, The album is composed of subtle 
This album is a collection of some adultery, doctors, lounge singers, yet poignant humor, that while well of their funniest work and has been and talking on the phone with one's thought out and written, is not so re-released on Mercury Records. mother. In one track a doctor has much the appeal as the comment 
Nichols went on to direct many of total disregard for the life of his the album makes of the human con­America's most important films. patient, refusing to complete his dition. such as The Graduate, Catch 22, current operation unless his mis­Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf, tress, the nurse, agrees to marry -by Jason Dorwart 
Courtesy of Mercury Records 
The Jerky Boys 3
THE JERKY BOYS 

(out of five) 
Once upon a time, when I first expect more. lectables and is offered a severed 
heard the Jerky Boys on a bootleg Of course, it was never cerebral leg in a boot and a Civil War era tape that a friend of mine had humor, but some of the new sketch­cannon, only to be told to meet the picked up before they were "legit­es are certifiably moronic. Some seller (who obviously will fail to imized" somewhat by their signing material just drags and has no real show up) at an upstate New York onto a record label it was like noth­point. Often times victims are Taco Bell. 
ing I had ever heard before. called and have no clue why they The Jerky Boys also decided not 
Sure, we had all made prank calls are being called, or just don't only to offend their call recipients, before and I had my repertoire of believe the pranksters. Because of but with the new element of a port­characters to draw from when this, there is no satisfying angry ly Texan cowboy and a homosexual doing so, but these Jerky Boys were reaction. character, have managed to offend the kings of the trade. Some of the biggest laughs come their fans as well. 
The attraction was: it was some­from new ideas and characters. The album is good for a few thing we had all done before but One good idea was having the vic­laughs but is not as enduring as the just never this well. The problem tims call the Jerky Boys instead of frrst record was. After we've heard with this new album is that it isn't being pranked, which was accom­it once it just takes something new done so well any more. After being plished by placing classified ads in to shock us in the same manner. 
as shocked as we were by the first the newspaper. One such caller 
series of calls, we have come to responds to an ad for Civil War col--by Jason Dorwart 

T 
VANDERBILT 



RUNNING 
Powerful Irish ground game to pace potent offensive attack 
By DAVE TREACY 
Associate Sports Editor 
Usually it is difficult to gauge such a match-up between two teams that have yet to play a game. In this case, however, it isn't such a challenge consider­ing that the squads haven't changed too much. 
Vanderbilt returns 10 of 11 starters from last year's unit. The Commodores improved drastically on the defensive side of the ball as the season pro­gressed, holding the high-pow­ered Tennessee offense to 12 points in their final game of the 1995 season. Their only loss is a significant one; defensive line­man James Manley, the "SEC's Most Valuable Lineman" in 1995, headed up to Minnesota to join the Vikings. However, the linebackers and defensive backs remain intact and confident. Whether they have the talent to compete with Notre Dame's ath­letes is still in doubt. 
The linebacking corps may be Vanderbilt's greatest strength. Junior middle linebacker Jamie Duncan, who is on everbody's All-SEC list, finished last season with 120 tackles, including 20 against Notre Dame. Duncan also plays his best in big games. The Commodores will need him to follow true to form if they want to stay in the game. 
"This year we feel better pre­pared to control the run," reported defensive coordinator Woody Widenhofer. "Last sea­son, we were not ready to play the game against the run." 
Senior strong safety Eric Vance bolsters a tough sec­ondary expected to help out on the run. If their veteran corner­backs can hold the inexperi­enced Notre Dame receiving corps in man to man coverage, they will move their safeties into position to aid against the Irish ground machine. 
"Their secondary is very, very good. I don't think there is much doubt that Fred Vinson (cornerback) and Eric Vance are two fine football players," Irish head coach Lou Holtz evaluated. "I think they are going to play a lot of man coverage; play us with a nine-man front. I know they feel that... they are going to stop the run and they can do that by putting nine men up there." 
Stopping the run should be a major concern for the Commodores. Despite Duncan's impressive statistic from last year's game, the Irish trampled through the Commodores' run defense, gaining 293 yards on the ground. 
Tailback Randy Kinder picked up 110 yards on 17 carries in that game, but will be absent from tonight's contest due to a pulled quadriceps muscle. Senior Robert Farmer will take the starting role after boasting a solid preseason. Sophomore Autry Denson will also check in at tailback when he's not head­ing downfield on pass routes from the split end position. 
"Autry will back up Robert, just as we had planned," offen­sive coordinator Dave Roberts explained. "With Handy missing, Autry will just have to make the move (from split end to tailback) a little sooner than expected." 
Fullback Marc Edwards will have fun running between the tackles. 
"Make no mistake about it, we are going to be a running foot­ball team," Holtz asserted. 
The Irish return the vast 
see RUNNING I page 2 
The Observer/Rob Finch Claiming a spot in the starting line-up after an injury to Randy Kinder, tailback Robert Farmer has the chance to run rampant behind the large and experienced Irish offensive line. 
Ready to 
Untested Commodore offense will be under heavy pressure 
By DYlAN BARMMER 
A"isran1 Spons hli10r 
During a nalional teleeonfer­IHH~P last w1wk. Notre Dame lwad eoach Lou lloltz. when ask1~d to assess the Vanderbilt oflimsivP attack. made the com­ment that "They (Vanderbilt) did a lot of difi'Prent things on offnnsn last y(HLI'." 
While this may be true of the Commodom offense, there is one problem with this statement. 
None of those things seemed to work. 
In undergoing a transition from former !wad coach Gerry DiNardo's option attack to a pro­style offense under the direction of Hod Dowhower last season, the Commodore attack was nothing short of anemic. 
In compiling a woeful 2-9 record, the Commodores man­aged an average of just 230.4 yards of total oll'ense, a number which was roughly equivalent to an ofT day for Eddie George. 
.Just how bad was this offen­sive unit as a whole? The Commodores ranked last in the SEC in total offense by almost 100 yards per game behind the eleventh-ranked squad, and scored one touchdown or-less in seven of their eleven games while committing a whopping 25 turnovers and averaging just 
see ATTACKI page 2 


page 2 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Ghost-busting &Must See TV 
all me crazy, but it's about time 
something finally gets settled on 
the field. 

After months of preseason publications dropping doses of their 
~--------, college football acumen upon the ignorant masses, Notre Dame finally can commence a run at the national championship. 
Wait a minute, though. Is that really a legitimate possibili-Joe Villinski t Y? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? Associate Sports That's quite a few ques-Editor tion marks. 
Almost as many as every magazine had about the Irish. 
It said in a few places that Ron Powlus is battling the ghosts of Notre Dame's leg­endary quarterbacks. Cah Powlus really be expected to deal with the Vanderbilt defense and Casper simultaneously? 
Apparently, a few writers, maybe col­laboratively brainstorming, thought the apparition dilemma had merit. When questioned about living up to the stan­dards set by his predecessors, Powlus merely replied that his main focus is win­ning a title this year and that it's not nec­essary to live up to what past legends did. 
Good answer Ron. 
Besides, you can't be afraid of spirits. 

After all, Dr. Peter Venkman disposed of them in Ghostbusters? Don't these writ­ers watch the American classics. 
Other experts will tell you this initial contest contains more pressure because of last year's opening loss. Surely, the Irish cannot recover if they lose to Vanderbilt. 
Two points here: 

1. 
When does a Notre Dame football team not feel pressure to win every game? 

2. 
The Irish are not going to lose tonight. 


Did somebody say tonight? Check that date conveniently located in the top right corner. It can't be true. Notre Dame is opening the season on a Thursday night. 
Stop the madness. 

Next thing you're going to tell me is that they're throwing up lights on the Stadium, liquid lunch is gone, and the women's soc­cer team is not ranked No. 1. 
Don't the schedule makers in the sky know what they are doing? They've cre­ated a dilemma almost as catastrophic as that ghost thing everyone likes to tell Powlus he has to deal with. 
Thursday night means only one thing to 

Notre Dame students. 
MUST-SEE TV. 

That's right. It appears Notre Dame's only real competition tonight will be Rachel, Jerry, and Doug Ross. 
What's everyone going to do? Many have the luxury of a VCR to discover what wacky incidents befall the cast of Friends later that night. But what if you're out at a favorite watering hole and the Blarney offense is covering ten screens when Carter finally gets to remove his first appendix. 
In the interest of the student body, yours truly took the liberty of calling a few of these taverns to see what they would do if asked to switch one of those screens to NBC. Both Coach's and BW3's reluctantly admitted they might whip out the remote control if asked nicely. 
However, Coach's, who's not afraid to proclaim they are the No. 1 sports bar in Michiana, reiterated that their primary interest is serving the Notre Dame com­munity and believed it would be best served to have every screen locked on ESPN. 
In the end that would seem to be the natural world order. Football comes before everything else on campus. Must­see TV should be no exception. 
And thumbing through this week's TV guide, it says all those shows will be reruns anyway. 
The game should also be a rerun of last season, but tune in anyway. If this works out, NBC might have to move Unsolved Mysteries to Thursday nights. 
Robert Stack can devote an entire show to uncovering how college football ever left Saturday afternoon. ' 
The Observer • THE IRISH EXTRA Thursday, September 5, 1996 



••··•··. ···,....•.... ,.. ·.· .. ··
··.····.'·'·,···'··,j..t.i.il;:,.• •. 
Despite the loss Qfl{inder, the Irish Have a stable of backs to use. Vandy's starter at tailback was a rece~ver last year. 
._..,... 
VANDERBILT
·Lin~backe~. 
·y 
Notre Dame's corps will dominate, but the 
Commodor~s al~.9 return.~Qur star~ers, 
including big playiuaker.Jarnie Dune~. 
.._..,... 
VANDERBILT
Secondary 
y 
The Irish bring back only one starter in Rossum, while·vandy's crew all return and smell inexperienced NO receiver blood. 

Special Teams 
Hunter the punter con,tinues to impress, the cover:age tea.ms look tough, but who's the kicker? VU's punter sends it deep. 
• 
C()aching 
Lou caQ.~~lose th~lQOOth• ga;r:ne in N~ his,. 
tory. Rod Dowhower has a top notch staff, but not enough to work with to impress. 

selves. nobody wants another episode of a first-game failure. 
Running 
continued from page 1 
majority of their backfield, including signalcaller Ron Powlus, who is back from a broken left humerus suffered last season. Powlus has been very impressive in fall camp, and with an extremely competent line in front of him, should find himself comfortable in the pocket. 
"I think that Ron is like most people that are injured, they really appreciate the opportunity to play," attributed Holtz. "He has more enthusiasm and he's not taking anything for granted." 
Powlus' targets must come to the forefront and make an impact to draw back the Vanderbilt safeties. Emmett Mosley returns as the most experienced receiver, and with Denson starting at split end, there's lots of athleticism to work with. Combined with senior Cikai Champion, freshman Deke Cooper and junior Malcolm Johnson, offensive coordinator Dave Roberts has several, if inexperienced, options to work with. But if the wide-outs can't open up the Commodore defense, the Irish game plan is in question. 
"(Notre Dame) doesn't have much experience in the skill posi­tions, but that can be good because then pure athletic ability can take over," coach Widenhofer evaluated. 
Another major factor returning could be Pete Chryplewicz at tight end. Although Holtz is renowned for neglecting this posi­tion as an offensive weapon, the fifth-year senior has the talent and experience to be a viable option for Powlus. Chryplewicz's contributions as a blocker are consistent, and he works well with the rest of the lineman. 
A refreshing change has benefitted the Irish offensive line: good health. With Jeremy Akers returning to the left guard position after an injury kept him out last season, and Mike Rosenthal gaining experience in big games, the line is loaded. Returners Chris Clevenger and Mike Doughty on the ends and Rick Kaczenski at center should have little trouble keeping the smaller Commodore defensive front out of their backfield. 
The key match-up to watch will involve the Irish receivers and Commodore defensive backs. Whoever gets the better in these battles has the edge in the war. 
Attack 
continued from page 2 
11.1 points per game. 
With the return of just two starters on the offensive line and the loss of speedy tailback Jermaine Johnson, it has to be hard for Vanderbilt fans to feel that this season will bring about any sort of drastic change in their offensive fortunes. 
How inexperienced are the Commodores at tailback? Their top returning rusher is punter Bill Marinangel, who carried the ball twice last season for 34 yards. 
And you thought Irish wide receivers qualified as inexperi­enced. 
If there are any positives in the Vanderbilt offense, they may lie in the passing game, with junior quarterback Damian Allen entering the season with five starts under his belt. Allen threw for just 728 yards and four touchdowns last season, so there is really nowhere to go but up. 
The Commodores will also be graced with the return of tight end Jason Tomichek, who missed the last five games of the sea­son after suffering a season-ending knee injury. Sophomore Jason Dunnavant, who is the top returning receiver with 12 catches for 112 yards last season, is slated to start at running back for the Commodores this season. 
The Irish defense, which looks primed for a big season, will pose a true test for the Commodores, who, despite scoring less than a geek at a frat party last season, were referred to by Holtz as "a very, very dangerous football team." 
It would be hard-pressed to imagine the inexperienced Commodore attack doing much on the ground against an Irish front seven that is drawing comparisons to the days of Bryant Young, Jim Flanigan and Pete Bereich, when the Irish fell just short of a national title. 
While the defensive line combination of Renaldo Wynn, Alton Maiden, and Melvin Dansby is at a disadvantage in terms of game experience as a whole, the Irish linebacking corps is swimming in experience, and may certainly be the best bunch in the Holtz era. 
When asked to assess this defense, even the notoriously criti­cal Holtz seems highly optimistic. 
"I think it is a good defense," commented Holtz. "I think it may compare with some of the better defenses that we have had here. Is it a dominating defense? I hope so, but I can't say." 
Chances are that judgments will have to be reserved until at least two games into the season. The Irish defense will dominate Vanderbilt, but so will a lot of other opposing defenses this year. 
If Allen can find someone to throw the ball to when the Commodores have the ball, Irish fans may get a glimpse at what the green Notre Dame defensive backfield has to offer this sea­son. 
Holtz has been praising the improvement of sophomore strong safety A'Jani Sanders, and junior free safety Jarvis Edison will get a chance to prove himself this season. Junior cornerbacks Allen Rossum and Ivory Covington will be asked to provide leadership of this unit off and on the field 
While the matchup appears extremely one-sided in favor of the Irish, first-game jitters and inexperience have to be factored in, but it would be shocking to everyone -including the Commodores themselves, if they were able to move the chains at ease against the Irish. Even Holtz would find such a develop­ment shocking, despite his insistence that "You just have to be prepared for anything in this world, and sometimes we all want to live in a make-believe world." 
In a make-believe world, the Commodores are the Florida Gators. In reality, they're still the Commodores. 



The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 


NOTRE DAME SCHEDULE 
Sept. 5  at Vanderbilt  
Sep\.14  PURDUE  
Sept. 21  at Texas  
Sept. 28  OHIO STATE  
Oct.12  WASHINGTON  
Oct. 19  AIR FORCE  
Nov. 2  Navy (Dublif\)  
Nov. 9 at Boston Collfl{)e  
Nov. 16  PITISBURGH  
Nov.23  RUTGERS  
Nov.30  at USC  
11th  
season  
at  
Notre  
Dame  

Career record: 208-92-7 
At Notre Dame: 92-27-2 
Against Vanderbilt: 2-0 
~NOTRE DAMEj 
Lou Holtz 

No.N1m1  POl.  HI.  WI.  YR  
1 O.ke Coop!lr  WR  6-4  205  FR  
2 Kmnon !alum  ILB  6·0  224  SR  
3 Ron Powlus  QB  6·2  212  SA  
4 KoryMmor  OLB  6·2  235  so  
5 Emmell Mosley  FL  5·8  184  SA  
6 Lyron Cobbms  ILB  6-()  246  SA  
7 Janous Jackson  QB  6-1  218  so  
8 Enc Chappell  as  6·5  220  FA  
9 Rakr Nelsnn  WR  6·1  178  FR  
10 Mrke Perona  as  6-2  197  SR  
10 Dever on Harper  CB  5·10  175  FR  
11 Jay Johnson  WR  6·2  170  FR  
12 Mano Slrayflorn  FS  6-1  210  so  
12 Scon Cenu~  K  5·10  180  JR  
13 Ben Berry  QLB  6-3  245  SR  
14 Ivory Covmglon  CB  5-10  168  JR  
1~ Tony McGunrgal  OB  6-3  190  SR  
15 Allen Rossum  C8  5·8  178  JR  
15 Paul Rooers  08  6·2  220  SR  
16 Todd Dvorak  K  5·10  175  so  
16 John Shrngler  as  6·1  231  so  
17 Hunler Smrlh  P/WR  6-2  210  so  
17 Mark McKenna  as  5·8  194  SR  
18 Crkar Champron  SE  5·10  183  SR  
19 Jrm Sanson  K  5·11  185  FR  
19 Wayne Gunn  ss  6·2  210  so  
20 Kevrn Kopka  K  5·7  196  so  
20 Byron Joyner  FS  6·2  180  so  
21 Shannon Slephens  C8  5·10  179  so  
21 Kevrn M<:Oonnell  K  5·11  180  so  
22 Jay Vrckers  RB  6·1  205  FR  
23 Aulry Denson  WR/TB  5·10  189  so  
24 Ty Goode  C8  5·11  189  JR  
25 Randy Krnder  TB  6·1  204  SR  
26 Lee Lalyelle  CB  5·10  188  FR  
26 Mall Mammolenlr  TB  5-8  165  SR  
27 Boillllll Howard  ILB  5·10  228  so  
28 Ken Barry  FB  6·0  224  JR  
29 AJanr Sanders  ss  5-11  182  so  
30 Jarvrs Edrsnn  FS  6-4  219  JR  
31 Rober! farmer  IB  5-11  227  SR  
33 Jarme Spencer  FB  6·0  247  so  
34 Aonnre Nrcks  DB  6-1  215  FR  
35 Scon Palumbo  p  5·11  189  SA  
35 Rober! Phelps  CB  6·0  185  SA  
36 lrm Lynch  DB  5·9  170  JR  
36 Chrrs Wachlel  p  6-0  211  SR  
38 Paul Grrmm  DB  5·9  169  JR  
39 Benny GUilbeaux  ss  6·2  202  so  
40 Kevrn Carrella  IE  6·1  239  SR  
41 Joe Rabey  ILB  6·2  222  SR  
42 Allan Marden  NG  6·4  271  SR  
43 Brll Wauasy  OLB  6-3  225  SR  
44 Marc E<lwdlds  FB  6-0  237  SR  
45 Joey Goodspeed  FB/LB  6-0  230  FR  
45 Chrrs Mr.Carlhy  K  5·11  213  JR  
45 Phrl Srcuso  DB  5-11  175  so  
46 Brll Gibbs  FS  5-10  171  SR  
4 7 Brll Mrtootds  ILB  6-1  229  JR  
48 Renaldo Wynn  DE  6·3  275  SR  
49 Joe thomas  ILB  6·2  226  so  
50 David Payne  OL  6· t  284  so  
51 MAivrn Dansby  Ol  6·4  288  SR  
52 Alex Mueller  OG  66  275  so  
53 L•monr Bryanl  DE  6·4  253  so  
54 fd Casrerr  LB  6·1  230  so  
55 Shellon Jordan  Dl  6·3  241  so  
56 Kurl Belisle  Dl  6·3  251  JA  
57 Arck Kaczenskr  c  6-4  264  SR  
5B Mrke Burgdor1  TE  6-1  222  SA  
59 Malllrew Kuru  ss  6·1  216  JA  
60 Anlwmne Wellrnglon  lB  6·2  230  FA  
60 Sean Rogers  OJ  6·0  292  SR  
63 John farrell  c  5-10  253  SA  
64 John Merandr  c  6·3  273  FR  
64 Mrke Denvu  TE  6-4  246  SR  
65 Man Gnesboch  OG  6·1  258  JR  
66 Jell Kllburo  c  6·4  283  SA  
67 John Wagner  OT  6·7  320  so  
68 Mall Brennan  OL  6·5  270  FR  
69 llavrd aursl  NG  6·5  290  SA  
70 Trm Rrdder  OT  6·7  297  so  
71 JerryWrsne  OG  6-7  285  so  
72 leon Hues  OL  6-6  280  FR  
73 Mrkc Doughty  OT  6·8  313  SR  
74 Rob Mowl  OL  6·5  290  FR  
75 Chris Clevenoer  01  6·8  290  SA  
76 JaremyAkers  OG  6·6  300  SR  
77 Brad Wrlliams  OL  6·6  250  FR  
78 Jon Sprckelmrer  c  6·3  267  JR  
79 Mrke Rosenthal  OG  6-7  310  so  
80 Malcolm Johnsnn  SE  6·5  203  JR  
81 I awrs Dawson  WR  6·0  180  FR  
82 Mrke Gandy  IEJOE  6·4  235  FR  
84 Albert Jones  WR  5·11  183  SR  
85 Anlwon Jones  NG  6·3  258  so  
86 Dan Oleary  IE  6·5  230  FR  
87 Jrmmy frrday  DE  6-2  240  so  
88 Bobby Brown  SE  6·3  185  so  
89 John Cerasanr  DE  6-4  258  so  
90 Lance Legree  LB  6·2  248  FR  
91 Darnell Smrth  DE  6·5  276  SR  
92 Joe Ferrer  LB  6·3  230  FA  
93 B J Scali  OL  6-4  250  FR  
94 Justrn Orr  WR  6-2  235  SR  
95 Corey Bennell  DE  6-1  251  JR  
96 Jrm Jones  Dl  6·4  260  FR  
98 Pole Chryplawrcz  TE  6·5  265  SR  
99 Jason Chmg  OL  6-4  270  FR  


Entering the 1996 campaign, the 
Notre Dame J{round attacK: looks 
unstoppable. With four verY, experi­
enced returners on the offensive 
line and a stable of top-notch backs 
like Marc Edwards tbelow}. Lou 
Holtz should be in his glory this sea­
son. 
It is the job of the Vanderbilt 
Irish groundgame vs. Commodore front seven 
defensive front seven to prevent the 
sort of Irish onslaught that many
feel will take place.
Six of the top seven come back for 
the VU defense, including Brian 
Boykin (below) and linenacker 
Jamie Duncan. They will certainly 
b~ put to the test. 
Will they pass? 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 
Irish fullback Marc Edwards 
TAILBACK 
31-farmer 
23·Denson 
STRONG SAFETY 111-Vance 8-Batten 
CORNERBACK 4-Chavous 30-Ghalley 

[ 
--·~ --··-..--~_j
RUNNING BACK 32-Forreat 20-Duke 
~ 
HALFBACK 
42·Dunnavant 
"~·~ 
RIGHT TACKLE 71-Coppaans
76·Condrey 

WtDE RECEIVER 25-Simmoll$ 2·Watkins CORNERBACK 14·Covington
10·Harpar 
c STRONG SAfETY
WILL c 
28·Sanda11 2-Tatum 39·Gullbeaux 
27-Howard 
CORNERBACK 
15·Ronum 
21-St&\IUI\$ 
page 3 
VANDERBILT SCHEDULE 
Sept. 5 NOTRE DAME Sept. 14 at Alabama Sept 21 -·MISSISSIPPI Oct. 5 at liiuisiana State . Oct. t2 : at North Texas -· r ; 
Oct. 19 · ' t " at Georgia Oct. 26 SOUTH CAROLINA Nov. 2 ALASAMA-BIRM. Nov. 9 FLORIDA Nov. 16 '~Keilfucky Nov. 30 lenitessee 
2nd season at Vandy 

Rod Dowhower 
Career record: 2-9 
At Vanderbilt: 2-9 Against Notre Dame: 0-1 
, VANDERBILTI 
No.N1me  Pot.  HI.  WI.  YR  
1  Fred VInson  08  6-()  170 so  
2  Jamie Walkins  WR  fi-,4  195 FR  
3  Billy Miller  WR  5·11  165 FA  
4  Corey Chavous  DB  6-0  198 JR  
5  Gerald Reeder  as  6·2  200 FA  
6  LamontTurner  LB  6-1  215 FA  
7  Tavarus Hogans  WR  5·11  180 FA  
8  Rahim Batten  DB  5-9  186 so  
9  A.J McGraw  LB  6-2  218 FR  
10  Darweshi Miles  LB  6-()  230 so  
11  Jamail Carter  aB  6-2  207 FA  
12  Duane Todd  WR  6-3  210 JA  
13  Hi Lewis  aB  6-2  189 FR  
14  Brooks Collins  DB  6·2  186 FR  
15  Teremy Banks  DB  6-4  213 FR  
16  Zach Winkler  WR  5·10  175 FA  
17  Damian Allen  as  6-2  184 JR  
1 B fred Baker  TE  6-3  244 so  
19  Eric Vance  DB  6·3  214 SR  
20  Alvin Duke  RB  5·10  176 FR  
21  Anlhony Alarna  DB  5·10  175 JR  
22  Oereal Finklin  08  5·9  183 SR  
23  Tyrone Yarbroooh  RB  5-10  184 JR  
24  Bobby Jacl<snn  WR  5-10  186 JR  
25  Robert Srmmons  WR  5·8  170 JA  
26  Rosevell Noble  DB  5·10  190 so  
27  Anlony Jordon  LB  6-3  224 JA  
28  Bubba Dixon  AB  6-1  195 FR  
29  Bill Marinanoel  p  6-2  224 SR  
30  Damian Chaney  DB  5·9  175 so  
31  Domoniclr Kooer  DB  5·9  115 so  
32  Marcus forrest  RB  5·9  184 JA  
34  Carlton Hall  LB  6·0  235 JR  
35  Marcus A. Williams  RB  6-()  199 JR  
36  Malt Garrett  WR  6·1  180 SR  
37  Johnny Metoyer  DB  5·11  185 so  
38  Brett Speakman  K  5-11  170 so  
39  John Bradley  LB  6·0  222 so  
40  Don Gallardo  DB  6-2  190 FR  
41  Paul Morgan  HB  5·11  213 JR  
42  Jasnn Dunnavanl  HB  6-1  225 so  
43  Marcus Lewis  DB  5-10  171 JR  
44  Robert Shellield  DB  6·0  180 JR  
45  Mark Je1coat  LB  6·2  224 SR  
46  Kirk Williams  LB  6-0  228 SR  
47  Scott Collen  p  6·1  190 FA  
48  Ainsley Battles  DB  6-0  175 FR  
49  Jaime Duncan  LB  6·1  230 JR  
50  Jell Barnell  OL  6·4  230 FR  
51  Jim Anguiano  OL  6·2  273 so  
53  Dan Leben  LB  5-11  205 FR  
54  Myron Murray  OL  6·3  280 so  
55  Glenn Youno  DL  6·3  247 JR  
58  ian Smith  DL  6-3  260 so  
59  Waller Pitts  c  6-3  235 SR  
63  Derrick May  OL  6·2  265 so  
64  Brian Gruber  OL  6-6  250 FR  
65  Will Jacobs  OL  6·3  291 so  
68  Kyle Gullahorn  OL  6·5  250 FA  
69  Man Hrll  OL  6·7  315 FA  
70  P.:minle Byndom  OL  6·5  285 FA  
71  David Coppeans  OL  fi-,4  275 so  
72  Jason Hilt  OL  6·3  256 JR  
73  Bnan Boykrn  DL  6·3  270 SR  
74  Joel Robb  OL  6-8  282 FA  
75  Allen OeGrallenreid  01  6·4  290 SR  
76  Clay Condrey  OL  6·4  265 so  
77  Darren Rothenberg  OL  6-4  290 FR  
78  Michael Sallsman  OL  6-4  298 FA  
79  Shawn Wilson  OL  6·3  282 so  
80  Elliot Carson  TE  6·4  235 FR  
81  Todd Yoder  WR  6-5  180 FA  
82  Marcus E. Williams  TE  6-4  244 JR  
83  Jasnn Tomichek  TE  6·3  254 SR  
84  O.J Fleming  TE  6·3  247 so  
85  Russ Nictmll  OL  6·5  250 FR  
88  Andre Woods  WR  5·11  170 FA  
87  Eric Wissman  TE  6·3  246 so  
88  Bo Lancaster  WR  5-10  165 FR  
89  Jay Stallworth  DL  6·2  255 JR  
90  Jasnn A. Smith  LB  6·2  230 FR  
92  Alphonso Harvey  OL  6-3  290 so  
93  Jason Smllh  OL  6·2  295 so  
95  Matt Sc!luckman  DL  6·4  260 SA  
96  Kenny J Chrislian  OL  6-2  255 so  
98  Ryan Aulds  DL  6-2  265 FR  

FULLBACK
4Hdwardl ~ 
33·Spencer 
RIGHT TACKLE 
73-Doughly
54-Petitgout 
TIGHT END 18-Chryplewlcz _......__ , ..._ 40-Carretta 
LEFT TACKJ.E
Wfl)-( 
l~cJ 
LEFT END 
8!1-Stallworlh 
97-Young 

Thumlay, Septembet 5, 19]
page4 The Observer • IRISH EXTRA 







• 
Hours: 
*New for SMC store Mon thru Thurs: 11 a.m.-1 a.m. Fri thru Sat: 11 a.m.-3 a.m. Sunday: 12 p.m. -1 a.m. 

saint Mciry's=· -2 7 1 ­
~No~rth~v!!!!!!!"""'ma!"""!!!!!!ge!!!!!!!""""M!!!!!!!""""an~~~N~·---~:1---~-_P~A~P~A~ Your Papa is 
271-· Otre arne: 
1 1 77 now hiring:
formerly Cactus Jack's 
•Delivery Drivers 


r-o-:~-;--, •Order Takers
I o 5 I I T ,. I •Pizza Makers 
I T~ \,!}'· I I (~·':,·.···~.-;h$12951
.~ •·'· 
. . ng 
L-~---.J 


~------~ 
Thursday, September 5, I996 
page II 

by 
dan cichalski 


More Than Just Music 
Rent ... a liberal musical for a more open generation 
Five hundred twenty-five opera "La Boheme" and incor­support-group meetings, amus­they both live with thousand six hundred. What porated elements of his own life ing voice-mail messages, and AIDS and decide to seems like a rather large, ran­and those of his friends. The touching conversations increase the inti­dom number is actually the cast consists of eight distinct betweeen strangers quickly get­macy of their rela­most popular number on characters and an ensemble of ting to know each other. The tionship. Broadway right now, and a seven singers, all between the wide range of music includes In "La Vie pretty famous number off ages of twenty-two and thirty­gospel-inspired roof-raisers, Boheme," Mark Broadway-all the way to four. hymn-like ballads, energized and the company Michigan Avenue and The characters are young, rock/pop numbers, and adult­gather at the Life Hollywood Boulevard. struggling artists, rebels, out­contemporary tunes all with Cafe and celebrate 
Five hundred twenty-five siders, and bohemians. It is a moving lyrics, drumbeats, and bohemia and all it thousand six hundred minutes east (and a show) that will not guitar chords. entails. Included arn in a year, and are the open­be featured at Notre Dame any With no overture to open the in these songs are ing words to the most recogniz­time soon, even if one of the show, the first track that can some of the most able song, "Seasons of Love," huge movie companies gets the really be considered a song is intense, amusing, from the hottest musical in the rights for the film version and the fourth, with the same title and enjoyable Big Apple, "Hent." The multi­converts "Rent" to the screen. as the musical. In the song lyrics in the musi­award-winning show opened in There are drug addicts. homo­"Rent," roommates Mark and cal, as the charac­April and has since been fea­sexuals, AIDS victims (though Roger wonder "how we gonna ters pay tribute to turnd in a Newsweek cover none of them would use such a pay last year's rent" after their "bisexuals, trisexu­story, during Maey's Fireworks term), and a transvestite in the roommate-turned-1 an dl ord als, homo sapiens, 
Courtesy of Dreamworks Records 

Spectacular on the Fourth of mix. Benny tells them he can no carcinogens, hallu­.July, and most recently, at the In short, the musical embod­longer let them slide. The song cinogens, men, Pee Wee tions and situations, that it is Democratic National ies principles and ideals more begins with an intense drum­Herman... to apathy, to impossible to summarize all Convention on August 26, one Democratic than Republican, and-guitar combination that entropy, to empathy, ecstasy." aspects of the show and sound­day before the soundtrack hit more liberal than conservative, closely resembles a Tom Petty Later, continuing their fast­track without rewritting the tlw stores. and more open-minded than rocker, like "Running Down a paced rally cry, they praise script. The characters are 
The fever sparked by "Rent" Dream." "revolution, justice, screaming inspirations to the viewers and is no surprise to those who 
Later, for solutions, forcing changes, listeners alike. They are inter­have seen the show or are sim­Roger-a risk and danger. making noise twined with one another by ply familiar with the sound­strl,lggling and making pleas to faggots, past relationships and conflicts, track, such as this reviewer. musician with lezzies, dykes, cross dressers many of which resurface in The double compact disc con­A I D S -too.... To me.... To you.... "Goodbye Love," an on-stage tains forty-three tracks; all laments on his To people living with, living conforntation involving the forty-two numbers from the life and with, living with, not dying eight featured characters. show and a bonus track of the dreams of from, disease; let he among us Mter winning a Pulitzer Prize hit "Seasons of Love" featuring writing one without sing be the first to con­and four Tony Awards, "Rent" the cast and Stevie Wonder. last song in demn La Vie Boheme." is destined to thrive on 
Art•~r a thorough review of the "One Song The second disc opens with Broadway and off-when the cast recording and a reading of Glory." asking the hit "Seasons of Love." A touring version opens in Boston the liner notes that include a for "the one simple piano introduction leads in November. Elements of its synopsis of the plot and all the song before to a chorus asking, "How do success and appeal include the lyrics. listeners have a firm feel the virus takes you measure a year?" young cast and unique scirpt of what the show involves and hold." Each Answering their own question, and score, all of which appeal know it nearly as well as they character is they suggest measuring it in to a more youthful crowd than would had they seen the perfor­given a song love-seasons of love. The the traditional theatergoers mancn at the Nederlander in which to entire company occupies the regulary found in Times Tlwater in New York. reveal himself, stage for the song, highlighted Square. 
Forty-two numlmrs in a musi­whether it be by two soloists who elaborate Adding to the appeal is cal is morn than the average. a solo or a on the concept of seasons of Larson himself, the writer of "Srnokny .Joe's Cafe," for exam­duet. love. · "Rent." He finished the first ple, c:ontains thirty-one compo­Closing out "Take Me or Leave Me" best draft in 1992 and arranged to sitions. That show is a concert the first disc exemplifies the R & B influ­stage the show at the New York HI' songs written by .Jerry Leiber (and the first ences as Maureen (Mark's ex­Theatre Workshop. On January and Mikn Stoller, whereas act) is "La Vie girlfriend) and her new lover, 25, 1996, after the final dress "Hent" is a musical with a east Boheme" and Joanne, end their relationship rehearsal for the opening per­
Courtesy of Dreamworks Records .. La vie

of characters (not just singers) telling one another to "take me formance, Larson died of an and a plot (not just a presenta­Wilson Jermaine Heredia (Angel), Jesse L. Martin B0 heme B," for what I am, who I was meant aortic aneurysm. The "Rent" 
(Tom), and Anthony Rapp (Mark) star in Rent, the hit two intense

tion of songs). to be." In "Without You," Mimi took off, opening on Broadway
Broadway musical, dealing with such modern topics n u m b e r s

Since this album is a sound­considers life without Roger only three months later and 
as homelessness, AIDS and homosexuality. 

track of a Broadway musical, a interrupted-and realizes that everything garnering praise and acclaim summary of the show is neces­musically, not -will be the same-to an extent: from the beginning. sary to appreciate the music Rush Limbaugh would dare to emotionally-by "I Should Tell "Without you the moon glows, Five hundred twenty-five that comes from the be. You," a solemn exhange the river flows, but I die." thousand six hundred. That's Nmlerlandcr. Jonathan Larson Scattered throughout the between Roger and Mimi as "Rent" is filled with so many the number of minutes that can based "Hent" on Pucinni's show are AZT breaks, AIDS they reveal to each other that songs covering so many emo-be found in a year, and proba-



For the past three months, I have tried repeatedly to think of an album that better fulfills the qualifications of an incredible record than the Oblivians', "Popular Favorites." 
It is a pointless task. 
From the opening track, "Christina," to the close, "Emerging," this record will go down as one of the best albums of 1996. With "Popular Favorites," these Memphis badcats have essentially set the standard from which all subsequent garage rock records will be judged. 
"Christina" starts it all off with a testimony to a hometown hero, bluesman Brownie McGhee. 

• WVFI CORNER 
THE· OBLIVIANS Popular Favorites 
"The Leather," an ode to Eric Oblivian's leather jacket, is a master­piece in the screeching, almost intoler­able noise made from a two-guitar bass and no drumkit band. 
"Hey, Mama, Look at Sis,'' "Part of Your Plan," and "Do the Milkshake," are straight-forward rock and roll that pay homage to the band's punk roots, {The Oblivians are comprised of mem­bers of the 80's punk outfit Johnny Vomit and the Dry Heaves) and to the rich rockabilly flavor of their home­town. 
Next up is "Strung Come On," which was released in a different version ear­lier this year as a single to promote the album.· 
Although not as rocking as that ver­
(out of five)
**** sion, which was recorded in a studio converted from the karate dojo where Elvis Presley himself used to practice his moves, it nevertheless does the job. "Emergency," whether the boys in the band realize it or not, is essentially the same song as Ministry's "Burning Inside." 
The only shortcoming l can possibly think of is the apparent difficulty that one would have trying to buy this record in one of South Bend's musically inept record stores. 
It's better to order from Crypt, 1409 
W. Magnolia, Burbank, CA 91506. Bless the Oblivians. 
-by Chris Owen, WVFI 


-----~----------~ 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 5, 1996 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl 
The Wizard may not leave land of Oz after all 
By R.B. FALLSTROM Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
The way Ozzie Smith is play­ing, this might not be his last season after all. 
The St. Louis Cardinals' 41­year-old shortstop announced his retirement in June, deciding to step away from the game rather than prolong daily con­troversy regarding his playing time behind Royce Clayton. Sometimes he wonders about the wisdom of the decision. 
On Monday, Smith hit a rare left-handed home run and tied his career high with four runs scored, including the game-winner, in an 8-7, tO-inning victory over Houston. Afterward, he opened the pos­sibility of sticking around. 
"My decision is my decision," Smith said Tuesday. "I have a right to change my mind if I choose to do that. 
''I'm not changing my mind right now, but if that happens, it won't be the first, and it cer­tainly will not be the last time, that somebody has changed their mind." 
Smith figures he could play two or three more years some­where, for someone. 
"If I chose to do that, I know I could do it," Smith said. "I think over the years I've proven that when I say I feel I can do something, I've done it. So that's not a big secret." 
It doesn't appear that Smith will get that chance with the Cardinals despite the fact that he's hitting .294 with multi-hit games in eight of his last 18 starts and he's almost as good as ever in the field. 
On Tuesday, he was back on the bench behind Clayton, who's also playing well. Clayton was batting .283 with 26 steals, five home runs and only 10 er­rors, and he's 15 years younger. 
It's clear that manager Tony La Russa, who clashed with Smith on several occasions early in the season but proba­bly deserves some credit for keeping the future Hall of Farner, doesn't want to discuss Smith's future. 
"I have a standard response that's realistic," La Russa said. "The manager of this club next year, he can deal with next year's problems, next year's is­sues. 
"That's not something you look at with any player or pitcher right now. We've got enough to concentrate on." 
Others have no doubt that Smith can still do the job. 
"Absolutely," Astros manager Terry Collins said. "He's a great athlete. He's kept himself in great condition. 
"Sure, he's lost a step, but he's a veteran who knows where to play and make up for that step." 
Teammate Willie McGee has played with Smith for about a decade. 
"Physically, he looks good," McGee said. ''I'm not in his body and I'm not in his mind, but in a role like he's in now, if he takes care of himself, he can play." 
If he decides to stick with his decision to retire and take a undefined consultant role with the Cardinals, Smith said he'll have a lot of good memories from his farewell tour. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Nom Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. 
Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 2 cents per character per day, including all spaces. 

-Classifieds 
Make money selling great  Who Needs A Bed?  Help! I need two Washington GA's  Will pay big bucks for student sea­ I need 2 Purdue tix-want to trade for  
NOTICES  European sweaters. Call for inter­view. 237-0866  2 new single beds for sale! Mattress, Boxspring, and  for parent's first ND game. Call X2538 and ask for lnga.  son lix. Matt @ 234-8474.  2 Pitt GA's? Call 802 273-2554  
Headboard included. Asking $275  FINANCIAL REWARDS AWAIT  ND ALUM NEEDS  
Entertainment Electronics Co.  Earn extra money for only five min­ each. Call Jarrod at  GA and St. booklets. 4 sale. Call  YOU! Alum seeks happiness &  OSU/WASHIAF/RUT/PITT TIX  
3509 Grape Rd (@Classic Stereo)  utes a dayl  234-7601.  Lee @271-2845. Make an offer!  fuzzy school memories. Will gleeful­ CALL MIKE 212-372-7214  
255-1172  Student carriers are needed to  ly pay TOO MUCH $ for 2 GA tixs.  
Hrs: M-F 11-5 Sat. 10-2  deliver the Chicago Tribune inside  COUCH FOR SALE.272-6306  2 GA's SEASON TICKETS  OHIO & WASHINGTON preferred,  Need tickets for N.D.-Texas  
You break it, we'll fix it! I!  all dorms for this school year.  DESPERATELY NEEDED  but not picky. Please call our busi­ Sept.21 Call 1-800-840-3548  
Please call 684-4302 for more Infor­ VW 90 JETTA GL 2DR 5SPD  Please Call 256-0174 after 6 pm  ness collect, (9-4), & ask for TED or  
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  mation.  SNRF SPAT-TUNED. IMMACU­ JENNIFER. 616·925-0629  '93 Alum needs 1 GA or stud. tix.  
Breakfast Inn has space available  LATE! $6950/BEST 277-3569  Need to buy up to 6 PURDUE TIX­ for Purdue game (sorry your buddy  
for football wknds. 5 Rooms with  VOLUNTEERS NEEDED  GA or STUDENT. Call Meg @232·  ----~WANTED----­ can't make it-sell me your extra).  
private baths, $70-$90,  The EARLY CHILDHOOD  TECHLINE DRP-FRNT DRESS­ 7839  MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  Kevin 704-365-2214, wein­ 
Middlebury, 30 miles from campus.  DEVELOPMENT CENTER with  ERIDSK WHITE EXCLNT CND $98  AND REGULAR STUDENT TICK­ mankc@ aol.com  
Toll Road. Exit #107.  programs at Saint Mary's  277-3569  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$NE  ETS $$$$$$  
1-800-418-9487  College and the University of  ED PURDUE TIX WILL PAY BIG  CALL KIM MARTIN  Wanted: Unwanted Law/Grad. stu­ 
Notre Dame is looking for  One fine futon & frame. $80 OBO.  $$$CHRIS 288·9102  273-4789  dent season football ticket booklet.  
Students: Do you need a typist?  volunteers who enjoy working  Dan x4-3996.  Top$ paid 312-919-9500 Daniel  
Call Kathy at 277-2178.  with young children. If you would  Dave Mathews/Black Crowes  NEED: 5 PURDUE, 5 OHIO  
be interested in spending 2 hours  92 JETTA 67K 5Sl=>, CRUISE,  1st 10 Rows 232-0058  STATE, 2 AIR FORCE, AND 2  ND Alum has PITT GA's to TRADE  
50% off-used books bought/sold. 2  a week reading children's books,  SUNROOF,+. $8,500 287-1521  WASHINGTON TICKETS.  for OSU GA's. Call Brian (717-566­ 
day ordering, any textbook. 4  building with blocks, and singing  ..DAVE MATTHEWS TIX ..  PLEASE HELP ME!!! CALL  5856). Leave message.  
...  blocks South (Notre Dame ­Howard.) 7 days 10-6; 233-2342.  songs with children, please call Cindy Hestad, 284-4693 (SMC)  9 MTH OLD COUCH $150 OAK TABLE+CHAIRS 130  Will trade 2 center box seats for DMB for one Purdue GA. Call  SUSAN X4268.  NEED FOOTBALL TIX CALL 233­ 
Pandora's books.  or Thayer Kramer, 631-3344 (ND).  Mickey at 1350  5719 FOR BILL-ANY GAMES  
Please join our fun filled days.  4SALE  I NEED TIX FOR NO-PURDUE  
FOR A GREAT RATE ON  2 Purdue GA's 219-271-2837  NEED: 2 GAs for PURDUE for my  GAME!! (4 STUDENT, 3 GA)  G.A.'S SEASON TICKETS  
RENTERS & AUTO INS. ~  Immediate opening for part-time  parents. Please call, Katie x2855  CALL COURTNEY X3525  G.A. WANTED PLEASE HELP IF  
CALL RANDY 257-9572 AMERICAN FAMILY INS.  afternoon secretary approx. 30 hrs./wk. Apply at WISSCO Irrigation  TICKETS  $$$$$$$  WANTED: TICKETS OSU  YOU CAN CALL 273-6929  
Inc., 1820 South Bend Ave. or call  I will buy your student ticket packet!  VS ND 614-687-0380 CALL COL­ REALLY REALLY NEED WASH­ 
Retired widow available for house­ 277-9851. Within walking distance  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED  Call Sean at 243-1340  LECT AFTER 9:00PM  INGTON GA'S. PLEASE CALL  
sitting. Short term or long term. Call  of campus.  ALL GAMES HOME  $$$$$$$  TOP$ PAID  243-9398 OR 273-9278 ASAP.  
633-4159 for details.  AND AWAY  
COME AND SEE THE BIGGEST  FOR RENT  232-0058 24 HRS.  NOTRE DAME GA'S WANTED ALL GAMES HOME  Need 6-8 GA Tix. AIR FORCE 913-541-3240  need married/student booklets x1528jaret  
ART SALE OF THE YEAR AT ND  BUY -SELL· TRADE  AND AWAY  
-THE HUNTINGTON GRAPHICS  1, 2 & 3 BDRM HOMES NEAR  TICKET-MART, INC.  232-0058  NEEDED: ONE G.A. FOR WASH­ Wanted: GAs for all games, season  
PRINT AND POSTER SALE AT  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW.272-6306  24 HRS.  INGTON GAME WILL PAY$$$$  GAs. Call soon! 272-7223  
LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER.  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  BUY -SELL -TRADE  CALL JANEL 4-2798  
HUNDREDS OF ART PRINTS,  1 BDRM. IN 3-BDRM HOME.  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  TICKET-MART, INC.  WANTED FB TIX to any home  
ESCHERS, ROCK BANDS, AND  CLOSE TO ND, SAFE, USE OF  232-0061.  Tickets are NEEDED for PURDUE  game for visiting brother. Student  
OTHERS. THIS WEEK ONLY  ALL UTILITIES & KITCHEN.  NEED 2 PURDUE GAs  and OSU!! Willing to buy or trade!  or GA. Will pay $$. x2119  
THROUGH SEPT. 6. 9:30AM­ $275/MO. PAUL 232-2794.  Buy-trade all games & season  Call Kieran @634-4487  Call 4-3568.  
6:00PM DAILY.  GA's. 24 hours & local cash pick­ NEED 2-4 GA TIX  
SPACIOUS, 2BR APT, $370  up. 312-404-4903  WANTED: NOTRE DAME GA'S  Tickets are NEEDED for  ALL HOME GAMES.  
Green Lantern is really looking for a  5 BLOCKS F/CAMPUS  ANY/ALL GAMES. PLEASE CALL  PURDUE and OSU!! Willing to  CALL 276-2010/288-2877 AFT 5  
tiass player-no joke. Call Dan 3674  232-4827.  WANTEDIII!!I!  232-0061.  buy or trade! Call 4-3568.  
ILOST & FOUND I  ROOMS-NIGEL Y DECOR. IN PRI­VATE HOME, 2 MI. N. OF CAM­ 4 G.A.'s for Purdue call Tom x1741 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$~  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6551  n. d. tickets for sale  Needed: PURDUE student ticket o~ G.A. Tim X-1643.  
PUS. FOOTBALL WKNDS., CONT.  271 1635  NEEDOSU GAs  
LOST -a camera at Bridget's  BKFST INCL. CALL KIM 277-8340  ND SEASON & INDIVIDUAL GA  CALL ERIN x1250  
at the end of spring semester  I need student Ticket books!  FOOTBALL TIX WANTED. CHECK  Trade 4 WA GA's for 2 OH GA's  
if found please call Nicole x1412  House for rent Lake Maxinkukee 45  Leave a message  OUR PRICES BEFORE YOU  Help! 243-9390  NEED ND-OSU GA FOOTBALL  
min Notre Dame 4BD. CA FP  for Bryan at: 273-2812  SELL. 674-7645.  TIX. PLEASE CALL 277-4221.  
I lost a pair of glasses On-Campus.  APPL. $650. 317-942-2108 after 6  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  NEED PURDUE TIX!I!  
If found, please call Drew @x1301.  317-942-2408.  I NEED FOOTBALL GA'S!  N.D. FOOTBALL GA TIX BOUGHT & SOLD  CALL AU 289-4922  PERSONAL  
L....___w;_l\_N_T_E_o_---11  L.;...I_F_o_R_S_AL_E_--~  WILL BEAT ANY OFFER! CALL 243-1287  232-2378 -A.M. 288-2726 • P.M.  $$$$ I NEED STUD. TIX Booklet!! Will pay big $$$ Call Mike 243-9224!!  THE COPY SHOP in the LaFortune Student Center  
HELP WANTED-$10.25  89 tercel 80k auto $3200  Need stud. tkt app I book! $$$  ND ALUM NEEDS FOOTBALL  is NOW HIRING  
Part-time work. Flexible eve. and  271-8280  x4893  SEASON TICKETS FOR PERSON­ I NEED a Purdue STUD Tix  student employees!  
weekend hours. No exp. required.  AL USE ONLY WILL PAY WELL  Call Mike 243-9224  Stop in for details and to apply.  
All majors welcome. Scholarships  NEEDED:  2773097  
available. Info-call 282-2357  Mac Pwrbk 150, $500  • MARRIED STUDENT TICKETS  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  .....ZAP YOUR FAT.....  
Mac Pwrbk 5300cs, $2000  FOR SEASON  FOOTBALL TICKETS NEEDED  My family desperately NEEDS  Lose Weight & Feel Great  
NEED DRUMMER  271-8280  • GAs FOR OSU  FOR OSU GAME 2 AND 2  GA's for the Ohio State Game.  100% Natural and Guaranteed  
ALT. BAND  WILL BARGAIN, CALL 258-6056  OR 4 TICKETS TOGETHER  Please call Jon @ x 1889  No More Starving! Just RESUL TSI  
VELVETS TO P J HARVEY  87 Plymouth, new parts & tuned 4  CALL ROBT. COLLECT  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  Call: (219) 289-5751  
283-0833 I 232-7392  dr auto dependable car. $950 obo  •• HEADIN' TO TEXAS ••  216-439-2192 AFTER 4  
1-9397  Can you sell us ND -UT tix? call  GA's/Stu for Sale ...Home/Away  $5.50 HAIRCUT  
NATIONAL PARKS HIRING­ Todd x1668 or Shan x1833  WANTED TO BUY OHIO StATE  All Games... Leave B/0 for any  VITO'S BARBERSHOP  
Positions are now availalbe at  OR WASH. VS. ND.D TIX-CALL  game...Call Tony x0500  1523 LINCOLNWAY WEST  
National Parks, Forests & Wildlife  WORD PROCESSOR  Need 3 RESERVED SEAT tickets  DAVE (614)764-7355  SOUTH BEND  
Preserves. Excellent benefits +  Smith Corona, GREAT COND  for WASH. Call Brian@ 1648.  Two stud tix for sale -all games  8-5-M-F  
bonuses! Call: 1-206-971-3620  $100 OBO 634-2575 Lauren  Buying N.D .. Football Tickets,  x2279  8-4-SAT.  
extN55848  Need 4 Purdue GAs. Call Bobby  Public and Faculty Seats  
Bargains & Treasures Galore  x1902.  Call 1-800-255-2850  Need 2 GA's for Washington. Will  Dear Class of 1998-We want our  
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  Historic District YARD SALE  pay big$ Julie x2141  wookie. Return Chewy or else this  
-Students Needed! Fishing  W. Washington & Chapin Sts.  NEED 1 PURDUE TICKET  Need Texas tickets for family who  is war. One week, no questions  
Industry. Earn up to $3,000­ Across from Northern Indiana  STUDENT OR GA  lives in area. Call Samantha at 4­ $NEED OSU, WASH, & AF TIX  asked. Comply or else.-SUB and its  
$6,000+ per month. Room and  Historical Society in South Bend  CALL AMY X4218  2550.  216-995-1902 5-7 PM EDT M-F  mafia connections  
Board! Transportation! Male or  Saturday, Sept. 7, 8 am-5 pm  216-650-5264 7-9 PM EDT M-F  
Female. No experience necessary.  [rain date Sunday, Sept 8]  NEED GA'S FOR THE WASH.  NEED PURDUE TIX  Need Advice? Classes? Clubs?  
Call (206)971-3510 extA55847  GAME. WILL PAY GOOD MONEY.  PLEASE CALL X4717  PLEASE HELPII!!  Traumas? LOVE?? send your let­ 
1986 MAZDA 323  CALL#2456  I need three GA'S for Purdue.  ters with a first name only to ALICE;  
EASTERN EUROPE JOBS­ 4 DOOR, 5 SPEED, A/C,  Married std tix 4 sale  call Brian @ 2182  c/o Accent at the Observer, 314  
Teach basic conversational English  AM/FM CASSETTE, 1 06 K,  $$$ Need 4 OSU GAs. Call Collect  call 2712598  LaFortune. Expert replies promised.  
in Prague, Budapest, or Krakow. No  EXCELLENT CONDITION.  Dave 81 0-642-8225 after 7  Need 1 tic for Purdue  
teaching certificate or European  $2500. CALL 272-4562  Call Dave @ x4798  Congratulations to ASHLEY  
languages required. Inexpensive  Need Two Washington G.A.'s for  DEBRUYNE -NYSP/SSP Student  
Room & Board + other benefits. For  91 Geo Prizm, 4 Dr. 5 Speed,  Need 2 Purdue GA's &  family, my tuition depends on it.  NEED STU BKL TS  of the Year !!I!  
info. call:  AM/FM Cassette, 92K Highway  1 OSU Student ticket  Will pay HUGE bucks!  REG & MARRIED  -D.  
(206)971-3680 ext.K55842  miles, $5,300. 273-0153  Call Sara X0928  Call Matt@ 234-8474 Thanks.  2719387  






Thursday, September 5, 1996 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Score big 
with 
Domino's 

OPEN 'TILL 4AM OVER THE WEEKEND! 

r------------------------------,


I 
I I I 
Hand Tossed PLus TAx I 
Thin or crust ~t\ Large : I 


L------------------------------~
r-----------,I
I ~ On Sides Kick 
I ~ I
I lr--------------,
I 2 Large
11 1 
: Bread Sticks :: $4 ~099 1· 1?PPing : 
I with any pizza or pizza.sub I I ~ Pizzas I 
I purchase I I Thin or Hand Tossed Crustl 

L-----------~L--------------~ 
VISA~ 
Not valid with other offers 

Don't be a loser••• 
Call . 
Domino's 


,.. 
I 
I 

• I 
~---~---­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• U.S. OPEN 
Chang dismisses Sanchez, critics 
Chang, the second seed, prevails in quarterfinal action 
By HAL BOCK 
Associated Press 
. NEWYORK 
It is never easy for Michael Chang. 
Chang struggled mightily again Wednesday before beating unseeded Javier Sanchez 7-5, 6-3, 6-7 (2-7), 6-3 in the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open. 
Two rounds earlier, he was forced to go five sets with another unseeded player, Vince Spadea. In that match, he had to come from behind. 
This time, he had to battle to remain in front. 
final 
two sets on tiebreak­ers. 
There were two 
o t h e r tiebreaker set victo­ries earlier in the tour­nament. He does not mind playing those extra points. 
"I knew that Javier was not going to go away, and he didn't," C h an g s a i d . "Javier did not get to 


"It was a tough match," Chang said. "He's very crafty and hits the ball around." 
Chang won the first two sets with his usual style of running down balls all over the court and returning nearly everything Sanchez hit at him. 
He was up 3-0 in the third when sud­denly, Sanchez came back on him, forc­ing the set to a tiebreaker and winning it. 
Chang took the blame for that. 
"I might have let up a little," he said. "It made a big enough difference that Javier was able to come back. He's won a lot of matches that way. He did it early in the tournament, down 6-2 in the tiebreaker and won the match. That's almost unheard of." 
That was against Jason Stoltenberg in the third round. In the fourth round, Sanchez beat Arnaud Boetsch, winning the quarterfinals by playing mediocre tennis." 
In the fourth set, Chang again seized the lead and had Sanchez facing two match points. 
Again, the Spaniard squirmed off the hook. Now Chang was starting to won­der. 
"You never know what might hap­pen," he said. "I was up two breaks in the third set and he got away. I had two match points in the fourth and he got away. I started thinking to myself, 'When is it going to end?' " 
In fact, quite soon. 
In the next game, Chang had triple match point. Sanchez saved one but that was as far as this escape act went. On the second, Chang prevailed and became the first man to advance to the Open semifinals. 
It is just the second time in 10 Opens that Change has reached the semis. The last time, in 1992, he played a five­set, 5-hour, 26-minute match before losing to Stefan Edberg, who went on to win the championship. 
Edberg, in his Grand Slam tourna­ment farewell, bids for his place in the semifinals Thursday night against Goran Ivanisevic. 
For Chang, centerpiece of a seeding controversy on the eve of the tourna­ment when his No. 3 ranking was translated into a No. 2 seeding, the vic· tory pushed his hardcourt record since Wimbledon to 21-2. He won singles titles in Washington and Los Angeles and was runner-up to Andre Agassi at Cincinnati. 
Sanchez was impressed. 
"He's a top player," he said. "He's always in the game. He plays all the time. He fights on every point." 
Chang appreciates the reputation. 
"Part of it is perseverence," he said. "You can't get frustrated. You have to continue to work hard. If you do, things will flow your way." 



----~-­
-

Thursday, September 5, 1996 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

• U.S. OPEN 

Newest Martina takes big bite out of Big Apple 
Hingis shocks Novotna en ~oute 
'' 
·J:." l 

(0 fhe SemttlnQ S 
By STEVE WILSTEIN 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Living up to the name that has marked her promis.e and bnen her burden, Martina llingis danced into the U.S. Open semifinals at 15 on Wednesday with an all-court attack against Jana Novotna that hinted of a different Martina. 
Nnxt up is that other Martina's old nemesis, Steffi Graf. 
llingis, named after Navratilova and guided toward a tnnnis career since birth, bnat thn No. 7 Novotna 7-6 (7­1). 6-4 to become the youngest Open semifinalist since .hmnifer Capriati in 1991. 
Two days after knocking out No. 3 Arantxa Sanchez Vicario, Hingis put on an even more spnetacular show of versatile tennis by taking apart Novotna from the baseline and the net. 
FOOD SERVICE TRAINING 
Tuesday,.September I Oth Wednesday, September I I th 5:00p.m. Lafortune Student Center Montgomery Theater 


If your club or organization has a football concession stand or you will be having a function where you will be obtaining food from someone other than Food Services (with their approval), it is mandatory that a member or members of your group attend one ofthe training sessions. 
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for lntemational Peace Studies SYMPOSIUM 
on upo/itics and Ethics ofPeacemaking in Intrastate Conflicts" to commemorate the meeting of the International Advisory Board and the tenth anniversary of the Kroc Institute 
held at the Hcsburgh Center for lntemational Studies C-100 Auditorium 
September 6, 1996 
4:00 p.m. inaugural 
remarks: Raimo Vayrynen, Regan director of the Kroc Institute Keynote Speaker: Dr. Alexei Arbatov, member of the Russian State Duma; Director of the Institute for Geopolitical Forecasts, 
'The Future of Russia; a Permanent Crisis or Reconstruction?" 

111111 
INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATIONAL 
PEACE STUDIES UNIVERSITYOFNOTREDAME 
Telephone: (219) 631-6970 Fax: (219) 631-6973 
'Tve played so many match­es: I wanted -~0 ':lla~e S?me pomts shorter. Hmgis said of her net attack. Hingis, who 
became the youngest champi­on at Wimbledon when she won the doubles with Helena 
Sukova this summer, is still going at the Open for three titles -singles, doubles and mixed doubles. 
Against the net-charging Novotna, the No. 16 Hingis did everything, slugging winners from the baseline, dropping cute, deft volleys, whacking overheads from the net and service line. 
All those talents were on dis­play during two brilliant sweeps-a 10-point surge from the first-set tiebreaker to love-40 in the second set's opening break, and an 11­point streak near the end of the second set that virtually 
clinched the match. 
"When she needed it, she came up with a good passing shot or topspin lob," said Novotna. adding that she was surprised by llingis' 33 charges to the net. llingis won 19 of those approaches. 
Hingis slapped a backhand 
September 7, 1996 
9:00a.m. Session I Professor Alexander George, Stanford University "Strategies for Preventive Diplomacy and Conflict Resolution: Scholarship or Policy-making?" Comments by Jane Holl and Alan Dowty 
10:45 a.m. coffee break 
11:15 a.m. Session II Professor Bryan Hehir, Harvard University "Ethical Aspects of Peacemaking" Comments by Landrum Bolling and George Lopez 
1:45 p.m. Lunch Session Professor Yufan Liang, President Shanghai Institute for International Strategic Studies: "An Asian Perspective to Peacemaking and World Order" 3:00p.m. Symposium adjourns 

wide on the first point of the ti~b~eaker to fall beh!nd a u.s. Open: women's singles 
mim-break, but that s all 
she yielded. She won the Results at the $10.89 million U.S. Open tennis 
u s DPEN'D6 
next seven points with win-tournament at the USTA National Tennis Center: 
ners from every angle, and Quarterfinal • ·---­
plenty of help from Semifinal 
aJ' 
Novotna's errors. ...,. "It's a great honor to be in the semis of a Grand 
Final
Slam," said Hingis, undaunted by the prospect of playing Graf. "I beat her on clay. It's not her sur­face." 
To say clay is not Grafs surface is to overlook her four French Open titles. But perhaps Hingis was being modest, or cautious. 
She beat Grafin three sets at the Italian Open this year, and lost to her three other times, once on carpet in Paris in 1995, and the past two years at 
Wimbledon. 1 ~~===========:___!!:.Boxed~~n~u'!!_mb~e~rs~in~a~1ca~~~e~seed~;~U'.!!_in~d~1ca~te~s:..':u~nse~eded'!!::!_j
On the eve of her father's ~ trial for evading taxes on $28 million of her income, Graf is struggling to keep her concen­tration on tennis at the U.S. Open 
"At the moment, it's ·a little difficult to focus on the court," Graf said Wednesday after scattering 43 unforced errors in a 7-5, 6-3 quarterfinal victo­ry over unseeded Judith Wiesner. "I don't really have the most positive attitude out there." 
Graf didn't want to discuss the trial of her father, personal manager and financial advisor, Peter Graf, which begins Thursday in Mannheim, Germany, where he has been jailed for 13 months. 
Steffi Graf has claimed she left management of her finances to her father and his advisors to work on her game. She has not been charged in the case but remains under investigation. 
Throughout the ordeal, and despite numerous injuries, Graf has been able to block out everything enough to win 40 
Celebrate a friend's birthday with a special Observer ad. 
Looking for financial assistance for college? Exploring your job omrru>rtnniti after graduation?Always wanted to be a pilot, but thought didn't qualify? If you answered YES to any of these questions, contact the ND ROTC Team at 631-4676 to get the facts. You might be surprised! 
consecutive matches in Grand Slam play, including two titles at Wimbledon, last year's U.S. Open, and this year's French. She skipped the Australian af­ter foot surgery. 
In beating Wiesner for the lOth time in 10 matches, the top-seeded Graf played just well enough to win, not domi­nate as she had in her three previous matches. Still, Graf is far from satisfied with her game. 
"I haven't played the best tennis in the first few rounds, but I know when I get to the important matches, I'll be up there," said Graf, who won her fourth U.S. Open last year. 
Graf, 27, is going for her 21st Grand Slam singles title, which would leave her three behind record-holder Margaret Smith Court. 

.. 

--~--~-----------~-~ 

·---~---------------~~ --~~----------. 

page 16 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Indians avoid sweep by pounding Brewers 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Chad Ogea said the timing of his first career shutout was more important than the shutout itself. 
Ogea pitched a four-hitter and Kenny Lofton and Jim Thome each homered Wednesday night to lead the Cleveland Indians to a 7-0 vic­tory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
Ogea's performance enabled Cleveland to avoid a three­game sweep by the Brewers and conclude its road trip with a 5-4 record. The Indians have not had a losing road trip since July 26-31, 1994. 

... 
"You always want to stop a losing streak at two," Ogea said. "If you lose a couple, that's all right and then you get back to business. When you start losing three or four in a row, people start to wonder and start to press. You want to stop it right there and you defi­nitely want to go back home with a win, too." 
Ogea (8-5) allowed four sin­gles, striking out four and walk­ing one, in his first complete game of the season. 
"He threw all four of his pitches for strikes," Brewers manager Phil Garner said. "He spotted them well. We put a few guys on base, but couldn't get the hit we needed." 
Rookie Jeff D'Amico (4-6) al­lowed four runs on seven hits in 2 1-3 innings, his shortest out­ing in 13 starts this season. 
Albert Belle's two-run double in the first inning put Cleveland ahead 2-0. 
Kevin Seitzer, acquired Saturday from Milwaukee, dou­bled with one out and Thome walked. Belle hit a double that gave him 133 RBis, most in the majors. 
Lofton snapped an 0-for-13 
GREAT \VALL 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 130 Dixie Way N., South Bend (next to Randall's Inn) 
skid with a two-run homer in the second. It was his 13th home run, surpassing his pre­vious single-seasonhigh of 12 set in 1994. 
"They jumped on his fastball and he couldn't get his curve ball over," Garner said of D'Amico. "The two-run homer hurt him. I had on a short leash with an off-day tomorrow." 
Thome extended the lead to 7-0 in the seventh with his 33rd homer, a three-run shot. Lofton singled, Seitzer walked and af­ter Ron Villone relieved, Thome connected on the first pitch. 
Ogea allowed two singles in the seventh, putting runners at first and third with one out, but he retired Jeromy Burnitz on a fly ball and Matt Mieske on a bouncer back to the mound. 
"We had a lot of life, as op­posed to last night when we didn't hve any," Cleveland manager Mike Hargrove said. "We swung the bats well, plus we got a great pitching perfor­mance from Chad Ogea." 
Notes: Thome's first-inning walk boosted his season total to 110, one shy of current man­ager Mike Hargrove's club record set in 1980.... Manny Ramirez, who committed a costly two-base error in Tuesday's 8-2 loss, was not in the lineup Wedneday. Ramirez has one hit in his last 11 at-bats and has not homered in his last 51 at-bats.... Cleveland fin­ished its nine-game road trip at 5-4, avoiding its first losing road trip since July 26-31, 1994.... Burnitz, acquired in the Seitzer trade, was 0-for-3 making him hitless in 11 at­bats with Milwaukee ... Lofton was 3-for-5, giving him a ca­reer-best 187 hits, topping his previous high of 185 in 1993 .... Nigel Wilson struck out as a pinch-hitter in the eighth in­ning, making him 0-for-25 in his major league career. 

BECOME A CATHOLIC 
Sacred Heart Parish University of Notre Dame 
Offers 
R.C.I.A. with: 
• Paa·ish setting on ND campus 
• \Vednt.~sday evening sessions 
• Alternative to Campus Ministry HCIA 

r ­
Call Chris Miller at 631-7 508 
·stu(}ents ~re . ... .. ing to tradittonal techniques..Semester-long course that meets<ln Rockne 219T!fR 6~7~30 p.m. starting Thursday, Septemberl2. You must register in ady~n<:e .at RecSportsand the fee is $18. A demonstration will be held .on Tuesday, September 10, at 6 p.m, in Rockne Rm 219.CaU RecSports at 1·6100 for more info.· . . . · ..... · .· · 
WOMEN'S SAFETY.&SELF, DEFENSE~ This course expos­es women to basic self-defense techniques as used in i"eal·life crisis situations. Class ·meets for ten sessions onM/W fr()m 6:30~7:45 p.m. in Rockne Rm 219. The instuctor for this course is Fran McCann who is a faculty member in the . Physical Education department. Class begins on Monday. September 9, and is opt'mto students and staff. Class size is limited and there is a fee of $12. For more info call· RecSports ·at 1· 6100. .. . ... 
BALLET ·• Students will be instructed according to their level. Semester long course that meets on • from 2:15..3:30 ;n:~ta.,~:lS · 
Buy an IBM PC 340 or 350 reference software. Buy a ThinkPad and you'll get
See f:ampus 
desktop computer and an Windows 95 and Lotus Smartsuite. You can also take
tll!nputer store 
IBM Multimedia Kit. And advantage of special student, faculty and staff financing.
for details. 
you'll get a CD software Just caii1-800-41BM-LOAN for information. Hurry, visit package that includes Windows 95, Lotus SmartSuite, your campus computer store Netscape Navigator, World Book Multimedia today. After all, no one looks ----­Encyclopedia and the lnfopedia collection of essential good in acheckered apron. =='=w:'=OII 
IBM and ThinkPad are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. Windows Is aregistered trademar'< ot Microson Corporation. Other company, product or service names may be trademarl<s or service marl<s of othern. 1:119961BM Cofj). All nghts reserved. 
September s. p.:rn. Rockne Rm 
301. The fee for the class is $35 and y()U must register in advance at RecSports. Sign­ups begin on Monday, Septe1llber 9. Call RecSports at h6100 for more info. 
HORSEBACK RIDING LESSONS • The information meeting forthiscourse will be Thursdll,y, September 12. 6 
p.m. in the Rolfs Aquatic Facility classroom. The course consists of 5 lessons that will take place on Thursday from 4 p.m.-5 p.m. Students will be instructed 
.. accordi,ng t() ~nglishStyle and all levels are welcome. For more info, call RecSports at 1· 6100. Classes begin on Thursday, Septeiilber 19, and space is limited. MEN'S WALK-ON TENNIS TOURNAMENT -Register at the Eck Pavilion through 
· September 9 at 3 p.m. For more information call1-4841. ONE NIGHT SOCCER TOUR­
NAMENT "· RecSports will be sponsoring a One Night Soccer Tournament on Thursday, September 12, beginning at 6 p.m.. It is 5 on 5. plus goalie and you need tp register your 
·team in the R~cSports office. 
Thursday, September 5, 1996 
is Wednesday, 
September ·11 and the tourna­ment is limited to the rrrst 12 teams to enter. For more info, call 1-6100. 
RECSPORTS GOLF CHAM­PIONSHIP • Play 9 holes on Saturday, September 7, and 18 holes on Sunday, September 8, at the Notre Dame Golf Course. This is a play youre own ball tourna· mentwith tee times beginning at 9 a.m. Register and pay the $12 fee at the Golf Pro Shop. Deadline for registering is Wednesday, September 4. For more info, call1-6100. 
ATHLETIC COMMISSION· ERS • All Hall Athletic Commissioners need to con­tact the RecSports office. We need names, phone numbers and· addresses. Please call us at 1·5100. 
VOLLEYBALL -Notre Dame men's volleyball tryouts are Sunday, September 8, 1 p.m. ­4 p.m., in the JACC auxiliary gym (the pit). For questions, please call Dave at x3482 or Gregg at 273-3958. 
GOLF TEE TIMES • The Notre Dame Golf Course has misplaced its list of tee times. Ifyou have a tee time, please call the Golf Pro Shop at 1· 6425 to conf'U'lll. 


Thursday, September 5-:,:-1_99_6__--:-::---.---:-:----:------~-T.:..:h:.:..:e:...:O:::..::::bs~e.:...:rv:..::e.:_r_•~S~P~O~R~T~S::_____________________~p:!ag~e~1~7 will help her this year." • NFL
I Playing with the best soccer team in the world, Manthei dis­continued from page 20 covered that there were both 
good and bad days. 

Manthe• -
Emmitt is ready for action 

school to practice with the U.S. "It's kind of a give and take," 
National Team. she said. "There were days home Tuesday with owner . saw (former Chicago running
Smith claims he 
Jerry Jones in the Cowboys back) Walter Payton looking in 

In 1995, she was a member where you would make a good 
private jet. on me. I'm a very lucky man. It

of the World Cup team but did play and those are the days you 
has recovered Only last week Smith was re­could have been a lot worse."

not make the final cut for the think you belong there. Then, 
covering from a sprained knee Smith, who gained 70 yards

Olympic team. there were other days when I "It was disappointing in a asked myself who invited me from neck injury ligament suffered in the final before hurting himself late in sense that I didn't make it," she here." By DENNE H. FREEMAN exhibition game. the game,. said the fact the 
"This definitely made me Cowboys played so poorly

said. "It was kind of so close, There have been days this Associated Press 
forget about my knee," Smith didn't help his mood. 

but really it wasn't. Going into preseason where Manthei has 
said. "This was a big burner "We had a big breakdown,"

it I never set my standards that asked why North Carolina was IRVING high for it and was more realis­ranked No. 1 to begin the year. Injured Dallas Cowboys run­down my body. I was numb. I Smith said. "That's why I want 
could hear the crowd and ev­to be in there Sunday and help

tic. My goal was more to get Not that the polls matter, but ning back Emmitt Smith threw 
erything, but I was wondering the team win this game. We

better as a player and to come for Manthei, it's a matter of away his neck brace 
what happened." need to erase a bad memory."

back and help this team win motivation. Wednesday and declared him­
What happened was Smith With that Smith walked off.

another national champi­"Other than our team and the self ready to take on the New 
went into the air and expected He didn't limp. And he didn't

onship." people at this school, nobody York Giants. 
to be tackled before he came have his neck brace. 

Here, Manthei assists others really thinks the national "I honestly feel like I can 
down. He has become the NFL's in­

understand her national expe­championship is that big of a go," Smith said. ''I'm still sore, 
"I thought somebody would destructable warrior.

rience by utilizing an analogy. deal," Manthei commented. but I think I'll be OK." 
hit me and cushion my fall," Asked if that was so, Smith

"It's kind if like going to a dif­"It's evident from the presea­It was less than 48 hours 
Smith said. "Instead, they (the smiled and said, "You forget I

ferent eountry," she said. son that we're not getting that earlier that Smith fell on his 
Bears) just let me fall, and all missed a game once."

"Eventually you have to learn much respect. To have won a head and shoulder trying to ..
of a sudden, I was crashing That was at the end of the

the language. It's kind of' the national championship and carry out a play fake in a 22-6 
face first into the ground. I'm 1994 season against the Giants

same thing where you don't come back in being ranked No. loss to the Chicago Bears. 
just glad it was grass and not after the Cowboys had clinched

have a ehoice and you have to 2 is kind of ridiculous. It's kind Doctors were so worried there 
turf." the NFC East Division title. He

learn how to play like everyone of a slap in the face, and you might be spine or neck dam­
Smith said he won't carry had a bad hamstring which

else. It helped because you go wonder why we don't get the age they cut his uniform off 
out play fakes again with the needed rest for the playoffs. 

out there, take your lickings respect. I guess we just have to while treating him. 
same vigor. In 1993, Smith rushed for

and learn from them." win another one." "They didn't want to take 
"They'll have to get some­168 yards and caught 10 pass­

"On the national team, she That, of course, would be the any chances, so they cut up 
body else if they want some­es for 61 yards while playing

(!lolly) eouldn't run by every­ultimate way to punctuate the that good looking uniform," 
body to make a big dive," with a separated shoulder

one," Petrucelli said. "She had season. Manthei would surely Smith said. "I hated that. But I 
Smith said with a laugh. against the Giants. 

to lind other ways of getting sacrifice a few parentheses for know this, I never had a feel­
Smith has been deluged with New York coach Dan Reeves

around people and those skills that exclamation point. ing like that before. I've still 
letters, telegrams, faxes and was asked Wednesday in a
got a lot of soreness and my 
telephone calls. teleconference call if he
back bothers me a little." 
"I appreciate everyone's thought he would see Smith on
Smith stayed overnight in a 
concern," Smith said. "I even the field Sunday. 
Chicago hospital, then flew 


Paid Posit:ions Available For... 
"W"eb Produc-tion Team Members 


The Web Production Team Members are responsible for publishing the daily edition of the Observer on the ~nternet. The Observer offers ehe best learning envuonment for online publishing. If interested, contact jason Huggins at The Observer, 314 LaFortune Student Center. 
No experience necessary!! 
AZZMANS 
NITE CLUB ~~~-~5~~LLST 
MULTI-LEVEL -l LARGE DANCE FLOORS 
presents THURSDAY'S 
COLLEGE NIGHT AND THEME NIGHT 

Djs Slice and Tony-Tone playing your favorite party and dance music-win prizes! 
FRIDAY'S 
MEN NIGHT 
All men admitted free before 11 pm; free admission all night to anyone wearing a tool pouch 
MONDAYS AND TUESDAYS it's PENNY NIGHT all night atfazzman's! 
jazzman's general admission Wed-Fri is $1.00 before II pm,

l 
$3.00 after II pm.

l 
21 and over with proper 10 -no 10, no admittance -state law DOORS OPEN AT 9:00PM 
Please RecYcle The Observer 
Help Lou and the Irish strike fear into the hearts of the Boilermakers by wearing "The Shirt '96". Stand up, show our unity, show our pride. Wear "The Shirt '96" Notre Dame will win over all! 
-

ON SALE NOW at the Bookstore, Lafortune Information Desk, and Varsity Shop. STUDENTS! Get $4 off "The Shirt '95n with coupon included with your student football tickets. 

t 
~~----------p-a-ge_l_:---=-~··----~~--~------=-~~~----~----~--------~----------------------­

Thursday, September 5, 1996 
-V-ball • Nft 
Allegations continue to haunt Rams' rookie 

continued from page 20 
"Notre Dame caused a lot of 
problems for us. We could 
never get in rhythm, and we 
were not in synch. Lisa 
(Sharpley) and Kristen (Folkl) 
both were not on. I give them 
credit for that." 
The junior All-Americans, Sharpley and Folkl, are the heart and soul of Stanford's success. Both have experience with the U.S. national team, and they were the top two re­cruits in 1993. 
"The only thing about shut­ting down Folkl is that they have five other players who can win," Lee expressed. 
Before the first serve, the un­derdog Irish would have to pull of the upset without the ser­vices of their regular setter, junior Carey May. Since May's injury two weeks ago, Jaimie Lee has been handling the of­fense. 
The Cardinal coaches and players also noted the Lee's ef­forts. 
"Lee did a nice job of running their offense. She can pass and hit, and when May comes back they will be that much better." 
Lee and Stanford's setter know a great deal about each other's games and each other in general. In Lee's fmal year of high school, she lived with the Sharpley family as they teamed to lead the San Francisco Bay area Griffin Volleyball Club to third place in the 1994 Junior Olympics. 
"It was fun to play against her, as it always is.," Sharpley said in praising Lee. "But I am really proud of what she is doing for their team in a time of need. She did amazingly well for not having any experience at setter." 
The Pac-Ten powerhouse got off to a flying start behind the serving of junior Barbara Ifejika. After a Stanford ace, Irish head coach Debbie Brown called timeout trailing 6-0. 
By R.B. FALLSTROM 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
Once again, Lawrence Phillips is in the news and it has nothing to do with carrying the football. 
The latest problem is a civil lawsuit brought by a former girlfriend. 
Unsealed Tuesday in Kansas City, it accuses the St. Louis Rams' rookie running back of beating, threatening and sexu­ally assaulting her during a two-year relationship at the University of Nebraska. 
On advice of his lawyers and his agent, Phillips wouldn't comment on the lawsuit Wednesday as negotiations continued for a possible settle­ment. During the Rams' open locker room period, the rookie never made an appearance. 
"Since he's come to St. Louis, there's been a lot of things that have surrounded his life, and not all of them very good, that he's trying to put behind him," said Phillips' agent, Mitch Frankel. "He's sometimes maybe concerned that people are going to ask him questions and he doesn't really know how to handle them." 

Last week was the same story. On the day his prelimi­nary hearing on a drunken dri­ving charge in California was postponed to Sept. 30, he angrily refused interview requests. 
Frankel said the real Phillips will surface as soon as he puts his personal woes behind him. 
"I think as time goes on and everyone gets to know him a little better, I think you'll find him very engaging and very hospitable," Frankel said. "I think once all these factors are behind him, I think you'll really like him as a human being." 
The lawsuit was nied Aug. 16 in Jackson County Circuit Court by Kate McEwen of Topeka, Kan. 
Phillips pleaded no contest to misdemeanor trespassing and assault for a Sept. 10, 1995, at­tack on McEwen, a former Nebraska basketball player. 


...the peifect place to celebrate our victory over Vanderbilt on Thursday. 
Doors open at 6:30. 
Watch the 
game on 
giant screen 
TV's brought 
in just for 
the slaughter, 
while you munch 
on goodies from 
our new extended 
Ifejika aced another serve be­fore Irish freshman Mary Leffers stopped the bleeding with a nice feed from junior hit­terturned setter Jaimie Lee. 
Head coach Debbie Brown was unsure and concerned about what happened early in the match. 
"You can't give a team like Stanford an 8-0 lead and expect to come back. I don't think it was nerves, I guess we just got rattled early." 
After game one, the match took a different tone and it looked like the kind of play lived up to its billing. 
The squads battled through game two, as both teams re­
fused to yield as sideouts were called time after time. The Irish had a 12-9 lead, but the Cardinal were too much as they broke the backs of the Irish, winning 15-12. 
In game three, the Irish re­fused to quit as they faced match point five times before finally yielding 1 7-15. with a kill from Folkl. 
"This was a diappointing loss, but I am also encouraged," Brown said. "We had some op­portunities but couldn't convert. We need to learn how to win those tight games. We had great crowd support (over 1200) and the momentum, but we can definitely build on this." 
Football Ticket Exchange Extended to ALL Games!!! 
The Athletic Department and the Athletic Resources Department of Student Government announce a ticket exchange program for all six games in '96. Each student ticket holder may exchange up to 2 student tickets for GA's during the season, plus a $16 exchange fee. 
How many tickets are available?? September 14 vs. Purdue-400 tickets September 28 vs. Ohio State -400 tickets October 12 vs. washington -300 tickets October 19 vs. Air Force -300 tickets November 16 vs. Pittsburgh -400 tickets November 23 vs. Rutgers-400 tickets 
• All persons exchanging tickets must be present at time of exchange • 

Remember that exchanges take place on Tuesday, .. Wednesday, and Thursday of the week prior to the game at the Joyce Center ticket office. 
Questions? Call Student Government at I-6283 
t 
j 

r
Thursday, SeptemberS, 1996 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 

MIXED MEDIA JOE OHMAN 

DILBERT 
NETWORK ADMINISTRATOR 
I 1-\f..VE FOR.GOTTEN 
M.Y PASSWORD. I HUI"\BLY BEG f:OR A.55I5TANCE.. 
\__ 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 23 Eastern New Year

1 Cabm attendants. 
24 Update. maybe slangily 25 Sensat1ona1 6 Popular cu1s1ne 27 Gentlemanly 10 One-named 
reply model 30 Kmd of wool 14 Flem1sh painter 31 Privileged one Michie! van-­
34 Amount to pay 15 Layers 35 Commercial 16 "Juke Box broadcaster Baby" singer. since 1941 1956 
39 Pro 17 Make --· buck 
40 Span1sh scarfs 

18 He1ght of 41 Valued violins fash1on 
44 Post-disaster 19 Bntish pol dangerportrayed 1n 
48 Track official "MISSiOn to 49 Horned deity
Moscow" 51 Take-home

20 Figure 1n a Super Bowl 52 Hoop promo extravaganza 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
llllll-=-t-=t;;~t;:;-t-;-17;1 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~------------~~~~~==~==~· 
I HI\VE NO Tlr'\E FOR. ~ 
'(OU COULO HAVE GIVEN 
BOR-ING A.DMIN15TRATIVE 
f'l\£. A N£W PAS5WOR.O 
TA5K5, YOU FOOL! I'rv\ 
IN 11-\£. "TIME lT TOOK 
BU5Y UPGRADING THE 
10 BELITTLE 
NEIWOR.K! 
YE5, BliT WHICH 

OPTION WOULO GIVE ME J"OB SA1I5FACITON? 
) 
56 "The Jolly Trio" painter 57 T1betan sighting 58 Accommodate oneself to 59To-­
(exactly) 60 Architect Saarinen 
61 Overact 62 Disarray 63 Pitcher Belinda 64 --ski 
DOWN 
1 Insubstantial 2 Problem for 
fillings 3 Glorifies 4 Madison's 
home: Abbr. 5 Fifth person 6 Infamous island 
name 7 Took evidence 
from a White 9 "You showed 
me" 32 Party person 
aid 54 Mother of Hera 10 Frosted 33 Doctrine since and Zeus
47 Cubic measures 11 Musical the 1850's 55 1994 Oscar­direction 35 Delegates do 49 Speedy winning role 
12 Cheese choice this 50 Word in Kansas' 13 United Nations 36 Prickly shrubs motto 56 Grandstander vote 37 Jack of "Barney 21 Wipers Miller" Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
22 The lot 38 Final closure are available by touch-tone phone: 26 Small amount 39 Lard 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 28 O.T. book 42 Picks on 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 29 Rock's Adam 43 Politico-military best of Sunday crosswords from the last grp. in the news 50 years: (800) 762-1665 

45 Captivate 53 Soapmaker's supplies
46 Couch potato's 
YOUR HOROSCOPE JEANE DIXON 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE 
NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: 
Your career or business surges 
ahead. Show your innovative, "can 
do" spirit! A windfall or inheritance 
will let you expand or move your 
base of operations. Early in 1997, 
singles will find the idea of settling 
down especially enticing. Married 
couples will experience new con­
tentment. Take responsibility for the 
decisions you make. An older indi­
vidual could play a major role in 
your professional success. Repay a 
mentor with your loyalty. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Raquel Welch, guitarist Dweezil Zappa, "Cathy" cartoonist Cathy Guisewite, football player Willie Gault. 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Go over a health or work-related issue carefully. Someone may have mis­led you. Your intuition is right on target. An important task can no longer be postponed. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Get your facts and figures straight before purchasing or renovating real estate. Inflationary trends are in effect. Do not be foolish. Get sever­al bids before authorizing repairs. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have to be flexible if you expect to get along with difficult people. Intense feelings lie beneath a placid surface. The pieces of a puzzle come together under unusual circumstances. 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone who is envious of your success may try to put you down. Let criticism roll off your back. Direct your attention to the task at hand. Follow through on a promise of community involvement. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Al­though you cannot expect to get everything you ask for. give it a try! 
Stand by your principles even if you must lower your expectations.. Avoid quarreling with someone who is cranky. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take your time when completing a work project. Rushing could lead to mistakes. Postpone signing legal papers until you have the latest available facts and figures. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will accomplish more by working on your own today. Seek the coop­eration of a business associate or family member in screening your calls. A flight of fancy leads to a special wardrobe purchase. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): You and a companion are definitely in tune. Some will set a wedding date or change their living arrange­ments. Do not let a minor disagree­ment become a major stumbling block. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2 I): A financial matler demands your undivided attention. Seize the opportunity to discuss various options. Someone sends a message you cannot ignore. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Stay in close contact with peo­ple who are solidly in your comer. Go all out to promote yourself. Oth­ers will admire your drive. A social engagement may have to be can­celed. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have to work harder than usual to keep your head above water. Others look to you for inspi­ration and guidance. Be glad you are held in such high esteem! 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Others may get credit for your work. Although you are miffed, it would be better not to make a big issue of it. In the future, keep your ideas under wraps. 
•MENU 
Notre Dame 

+'North South Southern fried chicken Turkey turnovers Mexican beef pizzas Stir-fry beef and Cream.ofmushroom soup vegetables 
Whipped potatoes 
Saint Mary's Beef enchiladas Lentil stew with mushrooms Broccoli cuts 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 

... 
-
SPORTS 

page 20 Thursday, September 5, 1996 

Holly Manthei assists the Irish in reaching goals 
By JOE VILLINSKI Associare Spons Ediwr 
On a soccer statistic sheet, there are parentheses follow­ing the name of the goal scor­er. This punctuation helps to show who helped out on the goal. 
Junior Holly Manthei's name has made a home between these marks. 
Lending a helping hand al­ways deserves some credit and that's how Manthei has made her mark at Notre Dame. Manthei's Irish teammates have been the beneficiaries of her 51 assists during a two­year period. 
Combine that talent with two 
years as a member of the U.S. 
National Team and it becomes 
apparent why Manthei has 
been rated as the nation's best 
midfielder by Soccer America. 
This year Manthei will con­tinue to help the Irish defend their national championship when Notre Dame opens its home schedule this Friday night against Wisconsin. Help is an understatement here, but it best suits Manthei's unselfish play. 
"I've always been more of a playmaker, and I like doing that," said the native of Burnsville, Minn. "It has al­ways come natural to me be­cause of my position on the flank." 
"She has the ability to run by the defense and win the ball in the corner," head coach Chris Petrucelli said. "After that, she is then able to fmd open play­ers." 
Naturally, those assists would not count unless someone else was depositing them in the net. 
"We've always had these phenomenal forwards here that I've been really fortunate to play with," Manthei said. 
'J've always been more of a playmak­er and I like doing that. 
It has always come nat­ural to me because of my position on the flank.' 
Holly Manthei 
"It's nice to play with people who can score 20 or 30 goals a year. Coaches have always wanted me to be more of a scoring threat. It would be nice, but it's not really a focus I have. It's definitely something I should work on because I should be more of a threat. Right now, I'm not that much of a threat going to the goal so I guess it's something I'd like to improve." 
Manthei has scored 15 goals in two years, but Petrucelli is one of those coaches who think she could be more threatening. Last year, in a loss to Connecticut, Manthei helped tie the game by blazing past three defenders and blasting the ball 
• VOU.EYBAU. 
Notre Dame suffers 

The Observer/Rob Finch Jennifer Rouse (left) contributed nine kills while Angie Harris chipped in six kills and two service aces in a losing effort. The Irish suffered their first loss of the season at the hands of No. 2 ranked Stanford. 

at Vanderbilt, Sept.ember 5, 7 p.m. 
at Ohio State, 
. 
~ 
Friday, Sept. 13
~ 
vs. Wisconsin, Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
~J 
at Hanover 

-
Friday, 6:45 p.m. 
~ 

~ 
vs. St. John's, 

t 
Saturday, 7:30p.m. 
~ 

r 
rare sweep to Stanford 
By jOE CAVATO Sports Wrirer 
Last night at the JACC, the second ranked Stanford Cardinal taught the Notre Dame women's volleyball team a bit of a lesson in playing top ten college volleyball. 
The Irish spotted the Cardinal eight points in the first match and had their backs broken in the last two as the Domers came up on the short end of a 15-2, 15-12, 17-15 outcome. The 3-0 loss marked only the second time the Irish have been shutout at home in Debbie Brown's tenure 
The young and old turned in big performances for Brown as freshman Mary Leffers and senior captain Jenny Birkner led the Irish with ten kills each. Senior middle blocker Jennifer Rouse picked up her game as six of her nine kills game in game three. 

Kristina Ervin, a senior hit­ter, played through a sprained ankle she suffered on Friday to turn in a strong performance off the bench. 
"I practiced some passing and a little hitting today," com­mented Ervin. "I was not ex­pecting to play, but the trainer has done a great job and I did not feel any pain in the match, probably because of adrena­line" 
"Kristina did a great job of coming back. I think she was a big lift for the team," Lee praised. 
Stanford head coach Don Shaw, who has led his team to two national championships, gave the Irish credit for giving his squad everything it could handle. 
see V-BALL I page 18 
aJ 
• Chang, Hingis advance at U.S. Open 
'C 
see pages 14,15 
..... •Cardinals take control in NL Central 
r/J 
see page 14 
JS • Emmitt vows to return this weekend 
see page 17 

r
• 







